Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 892?898,Austin, Texas, November 1-5, 2016. c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsPorting an Open Information Extraction System from English to GermanTobias Falke?
Gabriel Stanovsky?
Iryna Gurevych?
Ido Dagan?
?Research Training Group AIPHES and UKP LabComputer Science Department, Technische Universita?t Darmstadt?Natural Language Processing LabDepartment of Computer Science, Bar-Ilan UniversityAbstractMany downstream NLP tasks can benefit fromOpen Information Extraction (Open IE) as asemantic representation.
While Open IE sys-tems are available for English, many otherlanguages lack such tools.
In this paper, wepresent a straightforward approach for adapt-ing PropS, a rule-based predicate-argumentanalysis for English, to a new language, Ger-man.
With this approach, we quickly obtain anOpen IE system for German covering 89% ofthe English rule set.
It yields 1.6 n-ary extrac-tions per sentence at 60% precision, making itcomparable to systems for English and readilyusable in downstream applications.11 IntroductionThe goal of Open Information Extraction (Open IE)is to extract coherent propositions from a sentence,each represented as a tuple of a relation phrase andone or more argument phrases (e.g., born in (BarackObama; Hawaii)).
Open IE has been shown to beuseful for a wide range of semantic tasks, includingquestion answering (Fader et al, 2014), summariza-tion (Christensen et al, 2013) and text comprehen-sion (Stanovsky et al, 2015), and has consequentlydrawn consistent attention over the last years (Bankoet al, 2007; Wu and Weld, 2010; Fader et al, 2011;Akbik and Lo?ser, 2012; Mausam et al, 2012; DelCorro and Gemulla, 2013; Angeli et al, 2015).Although similar applications of Open IE in otherlanguages are obvious, most previous work focused1Source code and online demo available athttps://github.com/UKPLab/props-deon English, with only a few recent exceptions (Zhilaand Gelbukh, 2013; Gamallo and Garcia, 2015).
Formost languages, Open IE systems are still missing.While one could create them from scratch, as it wasdone for Spanish, this can be a very laborious pro-cess, as state-of-the-art systems make use of hand-crafted, linguistically motivated rules.
Instead, analternative approach is to transfer the rule sets ofavailable systems for English to the new language.In this paper, we study whether an existing setof rules to extract Open IE tuples from English de-pendency parses can be ported to another language.We use German, a relatively close language, and thePropS system (Stanovsky et al, 2016) as examplesin our analysis.
Instead of creating rule sets fromscratch, such a transfer approach would simplify therule creation, making it possible to build Open IEsystems for other languages with relatively low ef-fort in a short amount of time.
However, challengeswe need to address are differences in syntax, dis-similarities in the corresponding dependency rep-resentations as well as language-specific phenom-ena.
Therefore, the existing rules cannot be directlymapped to the German part-of-speech and depen-dency tags in a fully automatic way, but require acareful analysis as carried out in this work.
Similarmanual approaches to transfer rule-based systems tonew languages were shown to be successful, e.g.for temporal tagging (Moriceau and Tannier, 2014),whereas fully automatic approaches led to less com-petitive systems (Stro?tgen and Gertz, 2015).Our analysis reveals that a large fraction of thePropS rule set can be easily ported to German, re-quiring only small adaptations.
With roughly 10%892Sehenswert sind die Orte San Jose und San Andres, die an der no?rdlichen Ku?ste des Pete?n-Itza?-Sees liegen.Sehenswert Orte San Jose und San Andres no?rdlichen Ku?ste Pete?n-Itza?-Sees liegenWorth seeing towns San Jose and San Andres northern shore Lake Pete?n-Itza?
locatedprop of modconj und conj undsubj prep anmod possExtraction 1: liegen ( die Orte San Jose und San Andres ; an der no?rdlichen Ku?ste des Pete?n-Itza?-Sees )Extraction 2: sehenswert ( die Orte San Jose und San Andres )Figure 1: PropS representation for Worth seeing are the towns San Jose and San Andres, which are located on the northern shoreof Lake Pete?n-Itza?.
Grey boxes indicate predicates.
Two Open IE tuples, one unary and one binary, are extracted from this sentence.of the effort that went into the English system, wecould build a system for German covering 89% ofthe rule set.
As a result, we present PropsDE, thefirst Open IE system for German.
In an intrinsicevaluation, we show that its performance is compa-rable with systems for English, yielding 1.6 extrac-tions per sentence with an overall precision of 60%.2 BackgroundOpen Information Extraction Open IE was in-troduced as an open variant of traditional Informa-tion Extraction (Banko et al, 2007).
Since its in-ception, several extractors were developed.
Themajority of them, namely ReVerb (Fader et al,2011), KrakeN (Akbik and Lo?ser, 2012), Exem-plar (Mesquita et al, 2013) and ClausIE (Del Corroand Gemulla, 2013), successfully used rule-basedstrategies to extract tuples.
Alternative approachesare variants of self-supervision, as in TextRunner(Banko et al, 2007), WOE (Wu and Weld, 2010) andOLLIE (Mausam et al, 2012), and semantically-oriented approaches utilizing semantic role labeling(Open IE-42) or natural logic (Angeli et al, 2015).While TextRunner and ReVerb require only POStagging as preprocessing to allow a high extractionspeed, the other systems rely on dependency parsingto improve the extraction precision.For non-English Open IE, ExtrHech has been pre-sented for Spanish (Zhila and Gelbukh, 2013).
Sim-ilar as the English systems, it uses a set of extractionrules, specifically designed for Spanish in this case.More recently, ArgOE (Gamallo and Garcia, 2015)was introduced.
It manages to extract tuples in sev-eral languages with the same rule set, relying on a2https://github.com/knowitall/openiedependency parser that uses a common tagset forfive European languages.
However, an evaluationfor English and Spanish revealed that this approachcannot compete with the systems specifically builtfor those languages.
To the best of our knowledge,no work on Open IE for German exists.Open IE with PropS Stanovsky et al (2016)recently introduced PropS, a rule-based converterturning dependency graphs for English into typedgraphs of predicates and arguments.
An example isshown in Figure 1 (in German).
Compared to a de-pendency graph, the representation masks non-coresyntactic details, such as tense or determiners, uni-fies semantically equivalent constructions, such asactive/passive, and explicates implicit propositions,such as indicated by possessives or appositions.The resulting graph can be used to extract OpenIE tuples in a straightforward way.
Every non-nested predicate node pred in the graph, togetherwith its n argument-subgraphs argi, yields a tuplepred(arg1; ...; argn).
With this approach, PropS ismost similar to KrakeN and ClausIE, applying rulesto a dependency parse.
However, due to additionalnodes for implicit predicates, it can also make ex-tractions that go beyond the scope of other systems,such as has ( Michael; bicycle ) from Michael?s bicy-cle is red.
In line with more recent Open IE systems,this strategy extracts tuples that are not necessarilybinary, but can be unary or of higher arity.3 Analysis of PortabilityApproach For each rule of the converter thattransforms a dependency graph to the PropS graph,we assess its applicability for German.
A rule is ap-plied to a part of the graph if certain conditions are893fulfilled, expressed using dependency types, POStags and lemmas.
As we already pointed out inthe introduction, several differences between the de-pendency and part-of-speech representations for En-glish and German make a fully automatic translationof these rules impossible.
We therefore manuallyanalyzed the portability of each rule and report thefindings in the next section.While using Universal Dependencies (Nivre et al,2016) could potentially simplify porting the rules,we chose not to investigate this option due to the on-going nature of the project and focused on the estab-lished representations for now.
In line with the En-glish system, that works on collapsed Stanford de-pendencies (de Marneffe and Manning, 2008), weassume a similar input representation for Germanthat can be obtained with a set of collapsing andpropagation rules provided by Ruppert et al (2015)for TIGER dependencies (Seeker and Kuhn, 2012).Findings Overall, we find that most rules can beused for German, mainly because syntactic differ-ences, such as freer word order (Ku?bler, 2008), arealready masked by the dependency representation(Seeker and Kuhn, 2012).
About 38% of the rule setcan be directly ported to German, solely replacingdependency types, POS tags and lemmas with theirGerman equivalents.
As an example, the rule remov-ing negation tokens looks for neg dependencies inthe graph, for which a corresponding type NG ex-ists in German.
We found similar correspondencesto remove punctuation and merge proper noun andnumber compounds.
In addition, we can also handleappositions and existentials with direct mappings.For 35% of the English rules, small changes arenecessary, mainly because no direct mapping to theGerman tag set is possible or the annotation stylediffers.
For instance, while English has a specifictype det to link determiners to their governor, a moregeneric type (NK) is used in German.
Instead, deter-miners can be detected by part-of-speech:Ich bin in die Schule gegangenPPER VAFIN APPR ART NN VVPPI am to the school goneSBOC MONK NKAnother type of difference exists with regard to therepresentation of auxiliary verb constructions.
InStanford dependencies, main verbs govern all auxil-iaries, whereas in TIGER dependencies, an auxiliaryheads the main verb.
The above example shows thisfor gone and am.
Therefore, all rules identifying andremoving auxiliaries and modals have to be adaptedto account for this difference.With similar changes as discussed for determin-ers, we can also handle possessive and copular con-structions.
The graph for Michael?s bicycle is red,for example, features an additional predicate have toexplicate the implicit possessive relation, while redbecomes an adjectival predicate, omitting is:haben Michael Fahrrad rothave Michael bicycle redprop ofsubj obj possMoreover, conditional constructions can be pro-cessed with slight changes as well.
Missing a coun-terpart for the type mark, we instead look for sub-ordinating conjunctions by part-of-speech.
In fact,we found conditionals to be represented more con-sistently across different conjunctions, making theirhandling in German easier than in English.More substantial changes are necessary for theremaining 27% of the rules.
To represent active andpassive in a uniform way, in passive clauses, PropSturns the subject into an object and a potential by-clause into the subject.
For English, these casesare indicated by the presence of passive dependen-cies such as nsubjpass.
For German, however, nocounterparts exist.
As an alternative strategy, weinstead look for past participle verbs (by POS tag)that are governed by a form of the auxiliary werden(Scha?fer, 2015).
Instances of the German static pas-sive (Zustandspassiv) are, in contrast, handled likecopulas.
Another deviation from the English systemis necessary for relative clauses.
PropS heavily relieson the Stanford dependency converter, which propa-gates dependencies of the relative pronoun to its ref-erent.
The German collapser does not have this fea-ture, and we therefore implement it as an additionaltransformation (see subj(liegen;Orte) in Figure 1).To abstract away from different tenses, PropS rep-resents predicates with their lemma, indicating theoriginal tense as a feature, as detected with a set ofrules operating on POS tags.
For German, no tenseinformation is contained in POS tags, but instead, amorphological analysis can provide it.
Determining894the overall tense of a sentence based on that requiresa new set of rules, as the grammatical construction oftenses differs between German and English.
PropSalso tries to heuristically identify raising construc-tions, in which syntactic and semantic roles of argu-ments differ.
In German, this phenomenon occursin similar situations, such as in Michael scheint zula?cheln (Michael seems to smile), in which Michaelis not the semantic subject of scheinen, though syn-tactically it is.
To determine these cases heuristi-cally, an empirically derived list of common raisingverbs, such as done by Chrupa?a and van Genabith(2007) for English, needs to be created.An additional step that is necessary during thelemmatization of verbs for German is to recover sep-arated particles.
For example, a verb like ankom-men (arrive) can be split in a sentence such as Erkam an (He arrived), moving the particle to the endof the sentence, with a potentially large number ofother tokens in between.
We can reliably reattachthese particles based on the dependency parse.
An-other addition to the rules that we consider importantis to detect subjunctive forms of verbs and indicatethe mood with a specific feature for the predicate.A morphological analysis provides the necessary in-put.
Compared to English, the usage of the subjunc-tive is much more common, usually to indicate ei-ther unreality or indirect speech (Thieroff, 2004).4 German Open IE SystemFollowing our analysis, we implemented a Germanversion of PropS, named PropsDE.
It uses mate-tools for POS tagging, lemmatizing and parsing(Bohnet et al, 2013).
Dependencies are collapsedand propagated with JoBimText (Ruppert et al,2015).
The rule set covers 89% of the English rules,lacking only the handling of raising-to-subject verbsand more advanced strategies for coordination con-structions and tense detection.
To assign confidencescores, PropsDE uses a logistic regression modeltrained to predict the correctness of extractions.
Fig-ure 1 illustrates some extracted tuples.
Based oncorrespondence with the authors of the English sys-tem, we conclude that we were able to implementthe German version with roughly 10% of the effortthey reported.
This shows that our approach of man-ually porting a rule-based system can overcome thelack of a tool for another language with reasonableeffort in a short amount of time.5 ExperimentsExperimental Setup Following the common eval-uation protocol for Open IE systems, we manu-ally label extractions made by our system.
Forthis purpose, we created a new dataset consistingof 300 German sentences, randomly sampled fromthree sources of different genres: news articles fromTIGER (Brants et al, 2004), German web pagesfrom CommonCrawl (Habernal et al, 2016) and fea-tured Wikipedia articles.
For the treebank part, weran our system using both gold and parsed depen-dencies to analyze the impact of parsing errors.Every tuple extracted from this set of 300 sen-tences was labeled independently by two annota-tors as correct or incorrect.
In line with previouswork, they were instructed to label an extraction asincorrect if it has a wrong predicate or argument,including overspecified and incomplete arguments,or if it is well-formed but not entailed by the sen-tence.
Unresolved co-references were not markedas incorrect.
We observed an inter-annotator agree-ment of 85% (?
= 0.63).
For the evaluation, wemerged the labels, considering an extraction as cor-rect only if both annotators labeled it as such.
Re-sults are measured in terms of precision, the fractionof correct extractions, and yield, the total number ofextractions.
A precision-yield curve is obtained bydecreasing a confidence threshold.
The confidencepredictor was trained on a separate development set.Results From the whole corpus of 300 sentences,PropsDE extracted 487 tuples, yielding on average1.6 per sentence with 2.9 arguments.
60% of themwere labeled as correct.
Table 1 shows that most ex-tractions are made from Wikipedia articles, whereasthe highest precision can be observed for newswiretext.
According to our expectations, web pages aremost challenging, presumably due to noisier lan-guage.
These differences between the genres canalso be seen in the precision-yield curve (Figure 2).For English, state-of-the-art systems show a sim-ilar performance.
In a direct comparison of sev-eral systems carried out by Del Corro and Gemulla(2013), they observed overall precisions of 58%(Reverb), 57% (ClausIE), 43% (WOE) and 43%895Genre Sentences Length Yield PrecisionNews* 100 19.3 142 78.9News 100 19.3 144 70.8Wiki 100 21.4 178 61.8Web 100 19.2 165 49.1Total 300 20.0 487 60.2Table 1: Corpus size (length in token) and system performanceby genre.
News* used gold trees and is not included in total.
(OLLIE) on datasets of similar genre.
The reportedyield per sentence is higher for ClausIE (4.2), OL-LIE (2.6) and WOE (2.1), but smaller for Reverb(1.4).
However, we note that in their evaluation, theyconfigured all systems to output only two-argument-extractions.
For example, from a sentence such asThe principal opposition parties boycottedthe polls after accusations of vote-rigging.OLLIE can either make two binary extractionsboycotted ( the principal opposition parties ;the polls )boycotted the polls after ( the principal oppo-sition parties ; accusations of vote-rigging )or just a single extraction with three arguments.PropS always extracts the combined tupleboycotted ( the principal opposition parties ,the polls , after accusations of vote-rigging ),which is in line with the default configuration ofmore recent Open IE systems.For the sake of comparability, we conjecture thatthe yield of our system would increase if we brokedown higher-arity tuples in a similar fashion: As-suming that every extraction with n arguments, n >2, can be split into n ?
1 separate extractions, oursystem?s yield would increase from 1.6 to 3.0.
Thatis in line with the numbers reported above for thebinary configuration for English.
Overall, this in-dicates a reasonable performance of our straightfor-ward porting of PropS to German.Extractions were most frequently labeled as in-correct due to false relation labels (32%), overspeci-fied arguments (21%) and wrong word order in argu-ments (19%).
Analyzing our system?s performanceon the treebank, we can see that the usage of gold de-pendencies increases the precision by 8 percentage0 50 100 150 2000.40.50.60.70.80.91YieldPrecisionnewswikiwebFigure 2: Extraction precision at increasing yield by genre.points, making parsing errors responsible for about28% of the incorrect extractions.
Since the mate-tools parser is trained on the full TIGER treebank,including our experimental data, its error contribu-tion on unseen data might be even higher.6 ConclusionUsing PropS and German as examples, we showedthat a rule-based Open IE system for English can beported to another language in a reasonable amountof time.
As a result, we presented the first OpenIE system for German.
In the future, studies tar-geting less similar languages could further evaluatethe portability of PropS.
Directions for future workon PropsDE are extensions of the rule set to bettercover complex coordination constructions, nestedsentences and nominal predicates.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been supported by the DFG-fundedresearch training group ?Adaptive Preparation of In-formation from Heterogeneous Sources?
(AIPHES,GRK 1994/1), by the German Research Founda-tion through the German-Israeli Project Cooperation(DIP, grant DA 1600/1-1 and grant GU 798/17-1)and by the Volkswagen Foundation as part of theLichtenberg-Professorship Program under grant No.I/82806.ReferencesAlan Akbik and Alexander Lo?ser.
2012.
KrakeN: N-ary Facts in Open Information Extraction.
In Proceed-ings of the Joint Workshop on Automatic KnowledgeBase Construction & Web-scale Knowledge Extrac-tion, pages 52?56, Montreal, Canada.896Gabor Angeli, Melvin Johnson Premkumar, and Christo-pher D. Manning.
2015.
Leveraging Linguistic Struc-ture For Open Domain Information Extraction.
In Pro-ceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics and the 7th Inter-national Joint Conference on Natural Language Pro-cessing, pages 344?354, Beijing, China.Michele Banko, Michael J. Cafarella, Stephen Soderland,Matt Broadhead, and Oren Etzioni.
2007.
Open In-formation Extraction from the Web.
In Proceedingsof the 20th International Joint Conference on ArtificalIntelligence, pages 2670?2676, Hyderabad, India.Bernd Bohnet, Joakim Nivre, Igor Boguslavsky, Richa?rdFarkas, Filip Ginter, and Jan Hajic?.
2013.
Joint Mor-phological and Syntactic Analysis for Richly InflectedLanguages.
Transactions of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, 1(0):415?428.Sabine Brants, Stefanie Dipper, Peter Eisenberg, Sil-via Hansen-Schirra, Esther Ko?nig, Wolfgang Lezius,Christian Rohrer, George Smith, and Hans Uszkor-eit.
2004.
TIGER: Linguistic Interpretation of a Ger-man Corpus.
Research on Language and Computa-tion, 2(4):597?620.Janara Christensen, Mausam, Stephen Soderland, andOren Etzioni.
2013.
Towards Coherent Multi-Document Summarization.
In Proceedings of the 2013Conference of the North American Chapter of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-guage Technologies, pages 1163?1173, Atlanta, GA,USA.Grzegorz Chrupa?a and Josef van Genabith.
2007.
Us-ing Very Large Corpora to Detect Raising and Con-trol Verbs.
In Proceedings of the Lexical FunctionalGrammar 2007 Conference, pages 597?620, Stanford,CA, USA.Marie-Catherine de Marneffe and Christopher D. Man-ning.
2008.
The Stanford typed dependencies repre-sentation.
In Proceedings of the 22nd InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics, pages 1?8,Manchester, United Kingdom.Luciano Del Corro and Rainer Gemulla.
2013.
ClausIE:Clause-Based Open Information Extraction.
In Pro-ceedings of the 22nd International Conference on theWorld Wide Web, pages 355?366, Rio de Janeiro,Brazil.Anthony Fader, Stephen Soderland, and Oren Etzioni.2011.
Identifying Relations for Open Information Ex-traction.
In Proceedings of the Conference on Empir-ical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages1535?1545, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.Anthony Fader, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Oren Etzioni.2014.
Open question answering over curated and ex-tracted knowledge bases.
In Proceedings of the 20thACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowl-edge Discovery and Data Mining, pages 1156?1165,New York, NY, USA.Pablo Gamallo and Marcos Garcia.
2015.
MultilingualOpen Information Extraction.
In Proceedings of the17th Portuguese Conference on Artificial Intelligence,volume 9273 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science,pages 711?722, Coimbra, Portugal.Ivan Habernal, Omnia Zayed, and Iryna Gurevych.
2016.C4Corpus: Multilingual Web-size corpus with free li-cense.
In Proceedings of the 10th International Con-ference on Language Resources and Evaluation, pages914?922, Portoroz?, Slovenia.Sandra Ku?bler.
2008.
The PaGe 2008 shared task onparsing German.
In Proceedings of the ACL-08: HLTWorkshop on Parsing German (PaGe-08), pages 55?63, Columbus, OH, USA.Mausam, Michael Schmitz, Robert Bart, Stephen Soder-land, and Oren Etzioni.
2012.
Open Language Learn-ing for Information Extraction.
In Proceedings of the2012 Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-ral Language Processing and Computational NaturalLanguage Learning, pages 523?534, Jeju Island, Ko-rea.Filipe Mesquita, Jordan Schmidek, and Denilson Bar-bosa.
2013.
Effectiveness and Efficiency of Open Re-lation Extraction.
In Proceedings of the 2013 Confer-ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-cessing, pages 447?457, Seattle, WA, USA.Ve?ronique Moriceau and Xavier Tannier.
2014.
FrenchResources for Extraction and Normalization of Tem-poral Expressions with HeidelTime.
In Proceedings ofthe Ninth International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC?14), pages 3239?3243,Reykjavik, Iceland.Joakim Nivre, Marie-Catherine de Marneffe, Filip Ginter,Yoav Goldberg, Jan Hajic?, Christopher D. Manning,Ryan McDonald, Slav Petrov, Sampo Pyysalo, Na-talia Silveira, Reut Tsarfaty, and Daniel Zeman.
2016.Universal Dependencies v1: A Multilingual TreebankCollection.
In Proceedings of the 10th InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation,pages 1659?1666, Portoroz?, Slovenia.Eugen Ruppert, Jonas Klesy, Martin Riedl, and ChrisBiemann.
2015.
Rule-based Dependency Parse Col-lapsing and Propagation for German and English.
InProceedings of the GSCL 2015, pages 58?66, Duis-burg, Germany.Roland Scha?fer.
2015.
Einfu?hrung in die grammatis-che Beschreibung des Deutschen.
Language SciencePress, Berlin, Germany.Wolfgang Seeker and Jonas Kuhn.
2012.
Making El-lipses Explicit in Dependency Conversion for a Ger-897man Treebank.
In Proceedings of the Eighth Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources and Evalu-ation, pages 3132?3139, Istanbul, Turkey.Gabriel Stanovsky, Ido Dagan, and Mausam.
2015.Open IE as an Intermediate Structure for SemanticTasks.
In Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics andthe 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 303?308, Beijing, China.Gabriel Stanovsky, Jessica Ficler, Ido Dagan, and YoavGoldberg.
2016.
Getting More Out Of Syntax withPropS.
arXiv:1603.01648.Jannik Stro?tgen and Michael Gertz.
2015.
A BaselineTemporal Tagger for all Languages.
In Proceedings ofthe 2015 Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing, pages 541?547, Lisbon, Portu-gal.Rolf Thieroff.
2004.
The subjunctive mood in Germanand in the Germanic languages.
In Focus on GermanicTopology, pages 315?358.
Akademie Verlag, Berlin,Germany.Fei Wu and Daniel S. Weld.
2010.
Open Information Ex-traction Using Wikipedia.
In Proceedings of the 48thAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 118?127, Uppsala, Sweden.Alisa Zhila and Alexander Gelbukh.
2013.
Comparisonof open information extraction for English and Span-ish.
In Proceedings of the International Conference onComputational Linguistics and Intellectual Technolo-gies (Dialogue 2013), pages 714?722, Bekasovo, Rus-sia.898
