Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 912?918,Austin, Texas, November 1-5, 2016. c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsGaussian Visual-Linguistic Embedding for Zero-Shot RecognitionTanmoy Mukherjee and Timothy HospedalesQueen Mary University of LondonSchool of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science{k.m.tanmoy,t.hospedales}@qmul.ac.ukAbstractAn exciting outcome of research at the inter-section of language and vision is that of zero-shot learning (ZSL).
ZSL promises to scalevisual recognition by borrowing distributedsemantic models learned from linguistic cor-pora and turning them into visual recognitionmodels.
However the popular word-vectorDSM embeddings are relatively impoverishedin their expressivity as they model each wordas a single vector point.
In this paper we ex-plore word-distribution embeddings for ZSL.We present a visual-linguistic mapping forZSL in the case where words and visual cat-egories are both represented by distributions.Experiments show improved results on ZSLbenchmarks due to this better exploiting ofintra-concept variability in each modality1 IntroductionLearning vector representations of word meaning isa topical area in computational linguistics.
Basedon the distributional hypothesis (Harris, 1954) ?
thatwords in similar context have similar meanings ?distributed semantic models (DSM)s build vectorrepresentations based on corpus-extracted context.DSM approaches such as topic models (Blei et al,2003), and more recently neural networks (Collobertet al, 2011; Mikolov et al, 2013) have had greatsuccess in a variety of lexical and semantic tasks(Arora et al, 2015; Schwenk, 2007).However despite their successes, classic DSMsare severely impoverished compared to humans dueto learning solely from word cooccurrence withoutgrounding in the outside world.
This has motivated awave of recent research into multi-modal and cross-modal learning that aims to ground DSMs in non-linguistic modalities (Bruni et al, 2014; Kiela andBottou, 2014; Silberer and Lapata, 2014; ?).
Suchmulti-modal DSMs are attractive because they learnricher representations than language-only models(e.g., that bananas are yellow fruit (Bruni et al,2012b)), and thus often outperform language onlymodels in various lexical tasks (Bruni et al, 2012a).In this paper, we focus on a key unique and prac-tically valuable capability enabled by cross-modalDSMs: that of zero-shot learning (ZSL).
Zero-shotrecognition aims to recognise visual categories inthe absence of any training examples by cross-modaltransfer from language.
The idea is to use a lim-ited set of training data to learn a linguistic-visualmapping and then apply the induced function to mapimages from novel visual categories (unseen duringtraining) to a linguistic embedding: thus enablingrecognition in the absence of visual training exam-ples.
ZSL has generated big impact (Lampert et al,2009; Socher et al, 2013; Lazaridou et al, 2014)due to the potential of leveraging language to helpvisual recognition scale to many categories withoutlabor intensive image annotation.DSMs typically generate vector embeddings ofwords, and hence ZSL is typically realised by vari-ants of vector-valued cross-modal regression.
How-ever, such vector representations have limited ex-pressivity ?
each word is represented by a point, withno notion of intra-class variability.
In this paper,we consider ZSL in the case where both visual andlinguistic concepts are represented by Gaussian dis-tribution embeddings.
Specifically, our Gaussian-912embedding approach to ZSL learns concept distri-butions in both domains: Gaussians representing in-dividual words (as in (Vilnis and McCallum, 2015))and Gaussians representing visual concepts.
Simul-taneously, it learns a cross-domain mapping thatwarps language-domain Gaussian concept represen-tations into alignment with visual-domain conceptGaussians.
Some existing vector DSM-based cross-modal ZSL mappings (Akata et al, 2013; Frome etal., 2013) can be seen as special cases of ours wherethe within-domain model is pre-fixed as vector cor-responding to the Gaussian means alone, and onlythe cross-domain mapping is learned.
Our resultsshow that modeling linguistic and visual concepts asGaussian distributions rather than vectors can signif-icantly improve zero-shot recognition results.2 Methodology2.1 BackgroundVector Word Embeddings In a typical setup forunsupervised learning of word-vectors, we observea sequence of tokens {wi} and their context words{c(w)i}.
The goal is to map each word w to a d-dimensional vector ew reflecting its distributionalproperties.
Popular skip-gram and CBOW models(Mikolov et al, 2013), learn a matrix W ?
R|V |?dof word embeddings for each of V vocabulary words(ew = W(w,:)) based on the objective of predictingwords given their contexts.Another way to formalise a word vector represen-tation learning problem is to search for a representa-tion W so that words w have high representationalsimilarity with co-occuring words c(w), and lowsimilarity with representations of non-co-occurringwords ?c(w).
This could be expressed as optimisa-tion of max-margin loss J ; requiring that each wordw?s representation ew is more similar to that of con-text words ep than non-context words en.J(W ) =?w,wp?c(w),wn?
?c(w)max(0, ?
?E(ew, ewp)+E(ew, ewn))(1)where similarity measure E(?, ?)
is a distance in Rdspace such as cosine or euclidean.Gaussian Word Embeddings Vector-space mod-els are successful, but have limited expressivity interms of modelling the variance of a concept, orasymmetric distances between words, etc.
This hasmotivated recent work into distribution-based em-beddings (Vilnis and McCallum, 2015).
Rather thanlearning word-vectors ew, the goal here is now tolearn a distribution for each word, represented by aper-word mean ?w and covariance ?w.In order to extend word representation learningapproaches such as Eq.
(1) to learning Gaussians,we need to replace vector similarity measure E(?, ?
)with a similarity measure for Gaussians.
We fol-low (Vilnis and McCallum, 2015) in using the innerproduct between distributions f and g ?
the proba-bility product kernel (Jebara et al, 2004).E(f, g) =?x?Rnf(x)g(x).
(2)The probability product kernel (PPK) has a conve-nient closed form in the case of Gaussians:E(f, g) =?x?RnN (x;?f ,?f )N (x;?g,?g)dx= N (0;?f ?
?g,?f + ?g) (3)where ?f , ?g are the means and ?f ,?g are the co-variances of the probability distribution f and g.2.2 Cross-Modal Distribution MappingGaussian models of words can be learned as in theprevious section, and that Gaussian models of im-age categories can be trivially obtained by maximumlikelihood.
The central task is therefore to estab-lish a mapping between word-and image-Gaussians,which will be of different dimensions dw and dx.We aim to find a projection matrix A ?
Rdx?dwsuch that a word w generates an image vector asex = Aew.
Working with distributions, this im-plies that we have ?x = A?w and ?x = A?wAT .We can now evaluate the similarity of concept dis-tributions across modalities.
The similarity betweenimage-and text-domain Gaussians f and g is:E(f, g) = N (0;?f ?A?g,?f +A?gAT ) (4)Using this metric, we can train our cross-modal pro-jection A via the cross-domain loss:J(A) =?f,g?P, h,k?Nmax(0, ?
?
E(f, g) + E(h, k)) (5)913where P is the set of matching pairs that shouldbe aligned (e.g., the word Gaussian ?plane?
and theGaussian of plane images) and N is the set of mis-matching pairs that should be separated (e.g., ?plane?and images of dogs).
This can be optimised withSGD using the gradient:?E?A =12((?f +A?gAT )?1A(?g + ?Tg ))+ ((?Tg (?f +A?gAT )?1(?f ?A?g)+ (?f ?A?g)T (?f +A?gAT )?1?Tg+ (?f ?A?g)T (?f +A?gAT )?1AT (?g + ?Tj )(?f +A?gAT )?1(?f ?A?g))2.3 Joint Representation and MappingThe cross-domain mappingA can be learned (Eq.
5)for fixed within-domain representations (word andimage Gaussians).
It is also possible to simulta-neously learn the text and image-domain gaussians({?i,?i}text, {?j ,?j}img) by optimising the sumof three coupled losses: Eq.
1 with Eq.
3, Eq.
5 andmax-margin image-classification using Gaussians.We found jointly learning the image-classificationGaussians did not bring much benefit over the MLEGaussians, so we only jointly learn the text Gaus-sians and cross-domain mapping.2.4 Application to Zero-Shot RecognitionOnce the text-domain Gaussians and cross-domainmapping have been trained for a set of knownwords/classes, we can use the learned model torecognise any novel/unseen but name-able visualcategory w as follows: 1.
Get the word-Gaussiansof target categories w, N (?w,?w).
2.
Project thoseGaussians to image modality,N (A?w, A?wAT ).
3.Classify a test image x by evaluating its likelihoodunder each Gaussian, and picking the most likelyGaussian: p(w|x) ?
N (x|A?w, A?wAT ).2.5 Contextual QueryTo illustrate our approach, we also experiment witha new variant of the ZSL setting.
In conventionalZSL, a novel word can be matched against imagesby projecting it into image space, and sorting imagesby their distance to the word (vector), or likelihoodunder the word (Gaussian).
However, results maybe unreliable when used with polysemous words,or words with large appearance variability.
In thiscase we may wish to enrich the query with contex-tual words that disambiguate the visual meaning ofthe query.
With regular vector-based queries, thetypical approach is to sum the word-vectors.
Forexample: For contextual disambiguation of poly-semy, we may hope that vec(?bank?)+vec(?river?
)may retrieve a very different set of images thanvec(?bank?)+vec(?finance?).
For specification of aspecific subcategory or variant, we may hope thatvec(?plane?)+vec(?military?)
retrieves a different setof images than vec(?plane?)+vec(?passenger?).
Byusing distributions rather than vectors, our frame-work provides a richer means to make such queriesthat accounts for the intra-class variability of eachconcept.
When each word is represented by aGaussian, a two-word query can be representedby their product, which is the new GaussianN (?
?11 ?1+?
?12 ?2?
?11 +?
?12, (?
?11 + ?
?12 )?1).3 Experiments3.1 Datasets and SettingsDatasets: We evaluate our method 1 using themain Animals with Attributes (AWA) and Ima-geNet1K benchmarks.
To extract visual features weuse the VGG-16 CNN (Simonyan and Zisserman,2015) to extract a dx = 4096 dimensional feature foreach image.
To train the word Gaussian represen-tation, we use a combination of UkWAC (Ferraresiet al, 2008) and Wikipedia corpus of 25 milliontokens, and learn a dw = 100 dimensional Gaus-sian representation.
We set our margin parameter to?
= 1.Settings: Our zero-shot setting involves training avisual recogniser (i.e., our mapping A) on a subsetof classes, and evaluating it on a disjoint subset.
ForAWA, we use the standard 40/10 class split (Lampertet al, 2009), and for ImageNet we use a standard800/200 class split (Mensink et al, 2012).Competitors: We implement a set of representa-tive alternatives for direct comparison with ours onthe same visual features and text corpus.
Theseinclude: cross-modal linear regression (LinReg,(Dinu et al, 2015)), non-linear regression (NLin-Reg, (Lazaridou et al, 2014; Socher et al, 2013)),1Code and datasets kept at http://bit.ly/2cI64Zf914(a) Top: ?Military?+?Plane?
(Gaussian), Middle: ?Passen-ger?+?Plane?
(Gaussian), Bottom: ?Passenger?+?Plane?
(Vector)(b) Top: ?White?+?Horse?
(Gaussian), Middle: ?Black?+?Horse?
(Gaussian), Bottom: ?Black?+?Horse?
(Vector)Figure 1: Qualitative visualisation of zero-shot query with context words.Vector space models OursDataset LinReg NLinReg CME ES-ZSL GaussianAWA 44.0 48.4 43.1 58.2 65.4Table 1: Zero-shot recognition results on AWA (% accuracy).ES-ZSL (Romera-Paredes and Torr, 2015), and amax-margin cross-modal energy function method(CME, (Akata et al, 2013; Frome et al, 2013)).Note that the CME strategy is the most closely re-lated to ours in that it also trains a dx ?
dw matrixwith max-margin loss, but uses it in a bilinear en-ergy function with vectors E(x, y) = xTAy; whileour energy function operates on Gaussians.3.2 ResultsTable 1 compares our results on the AWA bench-mark against alternatives using the same visual fea-tures, and word vectors trained on the same corpus.We observe that: (i) Our Gaussian-embedding ob-tains the best performance overall.
(ii) Our methodoutperforms CME which shares an objective func-tion and optimisation strategy with ours, but oper-ates on vectors rather than Gaussians.
This sug-gests that our new distribution rather than vector-embedding does indeed bring significant benefit.A comparison to published results obtained byother studies on the same ZSL splits is given in Ta-ble 2, where we see that our results are competitivedespite exploitation of supervised embeddings suchas attributes (Fu et al, 2014), or combinations ofembeddings (Akata et al, 2013) by other methods.We next demonstrate our approach qualitativelyby means of the contextual query idea introduced inImageNetConSE (Norouzi et al, 2014) 28.5%DeVISE (Frome et al, 2013) 31.8%Large Scale Metric.
(Mensink et al, 2012) 35.7%Semantic Manifold.
(Fu et al, 2015) 41.0%Gaussian Embedding 45.7%AwADAP (CNN feat) (Lampert et al, 2009) 53.2%ALE (Akata et al, 2013) 43.5%TMV-BLP (Fu et al, 2014) 47.1%ES-ZSL (Romera-Paredes and Torr, 2015) 49.3%Gaussian Embedding 65.4%Table 2: Comparison of our ZSL results with state of the art.Sec 2.5.
Fig.
1 shows examples of how the top re-trieved images differ intuitively when querying Im-ageNet for zero-shot categories ?plane?
and ?horse?with different context words.
To ease interpretation,we constrain the retrieval to the true target class,and focus on the effect of the context word.
Ourlearned Gaussian method retrieves more relevant im-ages than the word-vector sum baseline.
E.g., withthe Gaussian model all of the top-4 retrieved imagesfor Passenger+Plane are relevant, while only two arerelevant with the vector model.
Similarly, the re-trieved black horses are more clearly black.3.3 Further AnalysisTo provide insight into our contribution, we repeatthe analysis of the AwA dataset and evaluate severalvariants of our full method.
These use our features,and train the same cross-domain max-margin loss inEq 5, but vary in the energy function and representa-915AwABilinear-WordVec 43.1%Bilinear-MeanVec 52.2%PPK-MeanVec 52.6%PPK-Gaussian 65.4%Table 3: Impact of training and testing with distribution ratherthan vector-based representationstions used.
Variants include: (i) Bilinear-WordVec:Max-margin training on word vector representationsof words and images with a bilinear energy func-tion.
(ii) Bilinear-MeanVec: As before, but usingour Gaussian means as vector representations in im-age and text domains.
(iii) PPK-MeanVec: Trainthe max-margin model with Gaussian representa-tion and PPK energy function as in our full model,but treat the resulting means as point estimates forconventional vector-based ZSL matching at testing-time.
(v) PPK-Gaussian: Our full model with Gaus-sian PPK training and testing by Gaussian matching.From the results in Table 3, we make the observa-tions: (i) Bilinear-MeanVec outperforming Bilinear-WordVec shows that cross-modal (Sec 2.3) train-ing of word Gaussians learns better point esti-mates of words than conventional word-vector train-ing, since these only differ in the choice of vectorrepresentation of class names.
(ii) PPK-Gaussianoutperforming PPK-MeanVec shows that having amodel of intra-class variability (as provided by theword-Gaussians) allows better zero-shot recogni-tion, since these differ only in whether covarianceis used at testing time.3.4 Related Work and DiscussionOur approach models intra-class variability in bothimages and text.
For example, the variabilityin visual appearance of military versus passenger?plane?s, and the variability in context according towhether a the word ?plane?
is being used in a militaryor civilian sense.
Given distribution-based represen-tations in each domain, we find a cross-modal mapthat warps the two distributions into alignment.Concurrently with our work, Ren et al(2016)present a related study on distribution-based visual-text embeddings.
Methodologically, they benefitfrom end-to-end learning of deep features as wellas cross-modal mapping, but they only discrimi-natively train word covariances, rather than jointlytraining both means and covariances as we do.With regards to efficiency, our model is fast totrain if fixing pre-trained word-Gaussians and op-timising only the cross-modal mapping A. How-ever, training the mapping jointly with the word-Gaussians comes at the cost of updating the repre-sentations of all words in the dictionary, and is thusmuch slower.In terms of future work, an immediate improve-ment would be to generalise our of Gaussian embed-dings to model concepts as mixtures of Gaussiansor other exponential family distributions (Rudolph etal., 2016; Chen et al, 2015).
This would for exam-ple, allow polysemy to be represented more cleanlyas a mixture, rather than as a wide-covarianceGaussian as happens now.
We would also liketo explore distribution-based embeddings of sen-tences/paragraphs for class description (rather thanclass name) based zero-shot recognition (Reed etal., 2016).
Finally, besides end-to-end deep learningof visual features, training non-linear cross-modalmappings is also of interest.4 ConclusionIn this paper, we advocate using distribution-basedembeddings of text and images when bridging thegap between vision and text modalities.
This is incontrast to the common practice of point vector-based embeddings.
Our distribution-based approachprovides a representation of intra-class variabilitythat improves zero-shot recognition, allows moremeaningful retrieval by multiple keywords, and alsoproduces better point-estimates of word vectors.References[Akata et al2013] Z. Akata, F. Perronnin, Z. Harchaoui,and C. Schmid.
2013.
Label-embedding for attribute-based classification.
In Computer Vision and PatternRecognition.
[Arora et al2015] Sanjeev Arora, Yuanzhi Li, YingyuLiang, Tengyu Ma, and Andrej Risteski.
2015.
Ran-dom walks on context spaces: Towards an explanationof the mysteries of semantic word embeddings.
CoRR,abs/1502.03520.
[Blei et al2003] David M. Blei, Andrew Y. Ng, andMichael I. Jordan.
2003.
Latent dirichlet alocation.JMLR, 3:993?1022.916[Bruni et al2012a] Elia Bruni, Gemma Boleda, MarcoBaroni, and Nam-Khanh Tran.
2012a.
Distributionalsemantics in technicolor.
In Proceedings of the 50thAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics: Long Papers - Volume 1, pages 136?145.
[Bruni et al2012b] Elia Bruni, Jasper Uijlings, MarcoBaroni, and Nicu Sebe.
2012b.
Distributional seman-tics with eyes: Using image analysis to improve com-putational representations of word meaning.
In ACMMultimedia.
[Bruni et al2014] Elia Bruni, Nam Khanh Tran, andMarco Baroni.
2014.
Multimodal distributional se-mantics.
J. Artif.
Int.
Res., 49(1):1?47, January.
[Chen et al2015] Xinchi Chen, Xipeng Qiu, JingxiangJiang, and Xuanjing Huang.
2015.
Gaussian mix-ture embeddings for multiple word prototypes.
arXivpreprint arXiv:1511.06246.
[Collobert et al2011] Ronan Collobert, Jason Weston,Le?on Bottou, Michael Karlen, Koray Kavukcuoglu,and Pavel Kuksa.
2011.
Natural language processing(almost) from scratch.
J. Mach.
Learn.
Res., 12:2493?2537, November.
[Dinu et al2015] Georgiana Dinu, Angeliki Lazaridou,and Marco Baroni.
2015.
Improving zero-shot learn-ing by mitigating the hubness problem.
In ICLR Work-shop Paper.
[Ferraresi et al2008] Adriano Ferraresi, Eros Zanchetta,Marco Baroni, and Silvia Bernardini.
2008.
Introduc-ing and evaluating ukwac, a very large web-derivedcorpus of english.
In In Proceedings of the 4th Web asCorpus Workshop (WAC-4.
[Frome et al2013] Andrea Frome, Greg Corrado,Jonathon Shlens, Samy Bengio, Jeffrey Dean, Mar-cAurelio Ranzato, and Tomas Mikolov.
2013.
Devise:A deep visual-semantic embedding model.
In NeuralInformation Processing Systems (NIPS).
[Fu et al2014] Yanwei Fu, Timothy Hospedales, TonyXiang, Zhenyong Fu, and Shaogang Gong.
2014.Transductive multi-view embedding for zero-shotrecognition and annotation.
In European Conferenceon Computer Vision.
[Fu et al2015] Z. Fu, T. A. Xiang, E. Kodirov, andS.
Gong.
2015.
Zero-shot object recognition by se-mantic manifold distance.
In 2015 IEEE Conferenceon Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR),pages 2635?2644, June.
[Harris1954] Zellig Harris.
1954.
Distributional struc-ture.
Word, 10(23):146?162.
[Jebara et al2004] T. Jebara, R. Kondor, and A. Howard.2004.
Probability product kernels.
Journal of Ma-chine Learning Research, 5:819?844.
[Kiela and Bottou2014] Douwe Kiela and Le?on Bottou.2014.
Learning image embeddings using convo-lutional neural networks for improved multi-modalsemantics.
In Proceedings of the Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP-14).
[Lampert et al2009] Christoph H. Lampert, HannesNickisch, and Stefan Harmeling.
2009.
Learning todetect unseen object classes by between-class attributetransfer.
In Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
[Lazaridou et al2014] Angeliki Lazaridou, Elia Bruni,and Marco Baroni.
2014.
Is this a wampimuk?
cross-modal mapping between distributional semantics andthe visual world.
In Proceedings of the 52nd AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics (Volume 1: Long Papers), June.
[Mensink et al2012] Thomas Mensink, Jakob Verbeek,Florent Perronnin, and Gabriela Csurka.
2012.
Metriclearning for large scale image classification: General-izing to new classes at near-zero cost.
In EuropeanConference on Computer Vision.
[Mikolov et al2013] Tomas Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever, KaiChen, Greg S Corrado, and Jeff Dean.
2013.
Dis-tributed representations of words and phrases and theircompositionality.
In Advances in Neural InformationProcessing Systems 26, pages 3111?3119.
[Norouzi et al2014] Mohammad Norouzi, TomasMikolov, Samy Bengio, Yoram Singer, JonathonShlens, Andrea Frome, Greg Corrado, and Jef-frey Dean.
2014.
Zero-shot learning by convexcombination of semantic embeddings.
In ICLR.
[Reed et al2016] Scott Reed, Zeynep Akata, HonglakLee, and Bernt Schiele.
2016.
Learning deep repre-sentations of fine-grained visual descriptions.
In IEEEComputer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR).
[Ren et al2016] Zhou Ren, Hailin Jin, Zhe Lin, ChenFang, and Alan Yuille.
2016.
Joint image-text repre-sentation by gaussian visual semantic embedding.
InProceeding of ACM International Conference on Mul-timedia (ACM MM).
[Romera-Paredes and Torr2015] Bernardino Romera-Paredes and Philip H. S. Torr.
2015.
An embar-rassingly simple approach to zero-shot learning.
InICML.
[Rudolph et al2016] Maja R. Rudolph, Francisco J. R.Ruiz, Stephan Mandt, and David M. Blei.
2016.
Ex-ponential Family Embeddings, August.
[Schwenk2007] Holger Schwenk.
2007.
Continuousspace language models.
Computer Speech and Lan-guage, 21.
[Silberer and Lapata2014] Carina Silberer and MirellaLapata.
2014.
Learning grounded meaning represen-tations with autoencoders.
In ACL.
[Simonyan and Zisserman2015] Karen Simonyan andAndrew Zisserman.
2015.
Very deep convolutionalnetworks for large-scale image recognition.
In Inter-national Conference on Learning Representations.917[Socher et al2013] Richard Socher, Milind Ganjoo,Christopher D. Manning, and Andrew Y. Ng.
2013.Zero Shot Learning Through Cross-Modal Trans-fer.
In Advances in Neural Information ProcessingSystems 26.
[Vilnis and McCallum2015] Luke Vilnis and AndrewMcCallum.
2015.
Word representations via gaussianembedding.
In ICLR.918
