Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 2054?2059,Austin, Texas, November 1-5, 2016. c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing Syntactic and Semantic Context to Explore PsychodemographicDifferences in Self-referenceMasoud Rouhizadeh?
?, Lyle Ungar?, Anneke Buffone?, H Andrew Schwartz??
?Stony Brook University, ?University of Pennsylvaniamrouhizadeh@gmail.com, ungar@cis.upenn.edu, buffonea@sas.upenn.edu, has@cs.stonybrook.eduAbstractPsychological analysis of language has repeat-edly shown that an individual?s rate of men-tioning 1st person singular pronouns predictsa wealth of important demographic and psy-chological factors.
However, these analy-ses are performed out of context ?
syntac-tic and semantic ?
which may change themagnitude or even direction of such relation-ships.
In this paper, we put ?pronouns in theircontext?, exploring the relationship betweenself-reference and age, gender, and depres-sion depending on syntactic position and ver-bal governor.
We find that pronouns are over-all more predictive when taking dependencyrelations and verb semantic categories into ac-count, and, the direction of the relationshipcan change depending on the semantic classof the verbal governor.1 IntroductionApproximately 1 in 18 English words on Face-book are first-person singular pronouns.1 Extensivework in psychological analyses of language has con-sistently found strong relation between first-personpronoun use and psychological attributes of individ-uals (Kendall, 1998; Pennebaker and Stone, 2003;Pennebaker, 2011; Twenge et al, 2012; Oishi etal., 2013; Carey et al, 2015).
Although such find-ings have been replicated extensively, little is knownabout how the syntactic or semantic context of thepronouns may affect their relationship with humantraits.
Usage in subject or object position may1Within the study dataset, 5.45% of all words from self-identified English speakers were first-person pronouns.vary, and the type of verb governing the referencemay further change its relationship.
For instance,while younger individuals are more likely to use 1st-person singular pronouns overall, older individualsmay be more likely to use them as the subject of so-cial verbs.In this study we dive deep into this one type ofword which makes up a large portion of our dailylives.
We first look at the relationship between firstperson singular pronouns and age, gender, and de-pression.
We then consider the syntactic position ofthe pronoun and its occurrence in the subject anddirect object position.
Next, we explore the self-referenced use of verbs compared to their generaluse across different semantic categories, followedby an examination of the rate of 1st-person singularpronoun as the subject and the object with differentverb categories.We ultimately show that pronoun relationshipswith human outcomes can change drastically de-pending on their syntactic position and the categoryof their verbal governor.
To be more specific, ourcontributions include: (a) taking the role of contextinto account in the psychological analysis of per-sonal pronouns, (b) distributional clustering of verbsusing Canonical Correlation Analysis (CCA), and(c) exploring the integration of verbal semantic cat-egories in the analysis of pronouns.
Utilizing verbcategories instead of actual verbs, enables general-ization and less sparsity in the semantic comparisonof the contexts in which personal pronouns are used.20542 BackgroundA wealth of studies have explored pronoun use withregard to age, gender, and personality types.
Infact, a whole book, ?The Secret Life of Pronouns?has been dedicated summarizing such studies whichhave built up over several decades of work (Pen-nebaker, 2011).
2We could not come close to a full survey of suchwork, but rather list some of the most notable andrecent results for outcomes related to those of thisstudy.
Pennebaker et.
al.
(2003) and Chung & Pen-nebaker (2007) found that the use of self-references(i.e.
?I?, ?me?)
decreases over age.
Pennebaker et.al.
(2003), and Argamon et.
al.
(2007) showed thatfemales use significantly more first-person singularpersonal pronouns compared to males.
Bucci andFreedman (1981), Weintraub (1981), and Zimmer-mann et.
al.
(2013) found that first-person singu-lar pronouns are positively correlated with depres-sive symptoms.
These analyses do not take the roleof syntactic and semantic context into considerationwhich may indicate interesting information aboutpsychological factors.3 MethodData Set: Facebook Status Updates.
Our datasetconsists of the status updates of 74,867 Facebookusers who volunteered to share their posts in the?MyPersonality?
application (Kosinski et al, 2013),sent between January 2009 and October 2011.
Theusers met the following criteria: (a) have English asa primary language, (b) indicated their gender andage, (c) be less than 65 years old (due to data spar-sity beyond this age), and (d) have at least 1,000words in their status updates (in order to accuratelyestimate language usage rates).
This dataset con-tains 309 million words within 15.4 million sta-tus updates.
All users completed a 100-item per-sonality questionnaire (an International PersonalityItem Pool (IPIP) proxy to the NEO-PI-R (Goldberg,1999).
User-level degree of depression (DDep) wasestimated as the average response to seven depres-sion facet items (nested within the larger Neuroti-2To quantify the pervasiveness of pronoun studies in so-cial science, we consider the citation count, via Google Scholar(July, 2016), to works mentioning ?pronoun?
by one of the topresearchers, James W. Pennebaker, which number over 10,000.cism item pool of the questionnaire) (Schwartz et al,2014).Dependency Features.
We used dependency an-notations in order to determine the syntactic func-tion of personal pronouns i.e.
subject (S) and di-rect object (DO).
We obtained dependency parsesof our corpus using Stanford Parser (Socher et al,2013) that provides universal dependencies in (re-lation, head, dependent) triples.
In the next step,we extracted the words in in the nominal subject(?nsubj") and direct object (?dobj") positions in-cluding nsubj 1st-person singular pronoun ?I", anddobj 1st-person singular pronoun ?me".
We also ex-tracted the corresponding verbs for each of the nom-inal subjects, and direct object words.Verb categorization.
In order to integrate the ver-bal semantic categories in the syntactic analysis ofpronouns, we utilize two verb categorization meth-ods (a) linguistically-driven Levin?s Verb Classes,and (b) empirically-driven verb clustering based onCCA.Levin?s verb classes (Levin, 1993) includesaround 3100 English verbs classified into 47 toplevel, 193 second and third level classes.
This clas-sification is based on Levin?s hypothesis that thesyntactic behavior of a verb is influenced by its se-mantic properties, indicating that identifying sets ofverbs with comparable behavior at the syntax levelwill lead to coherent clusters of semantically similarverbs.
In this paper we used all of the 193 secondand third level Levin?s classes (Lev).
As an alter-native way, we also used the 50 top most frequentsub-classes in our social media data (LevTop).To derive empirically driven clusters we useCanonical Correlation Analysis (CCA), a multi-view dimensionality reduction technique.
CCA haspreviously been used in word clustering methodssuch as multi-view learning of word embeddings(Dhillon et al, 2011), or multilingual word em-beddings (Ammar et al, 2016).
The advantageof a multi-view technique is that we can leverageboth the subject and object context.
More pre-cisely, we performed sparse CCA on matrix x thatincludes 5k by 10k verb-by-nominal-subject (nsubj)co-occurrences, and matrix z that includes 5k by 10kverb-by-direct-object (dobj) co-occurrences.
Theoutput of CCA is a subject by component matrix2055Gender Age DepFeature Set (AUC) (MSE) (MSE)P (1p) .512 78.9 90.1P (1p|r) .589 76.4 90.3P (1p|r, c), Lev .660 70.0 89.8P (1p|r, c), Lev & sent .695 68.3 89.1P (1p|r, c), LevTop .660 71.5 89.8P (1p|r, c), LevTop & sent .669 69.0 89.3P (1p|r, c), CCA-D .634 73.4 90.3P (1p|r, c), CCA-D & sent .649 71.5 89.7P (1p|r, c), CCA-KM .632 72.6 90.3P (1p|r, c), CCA-KM & sent .645 70.9 89.9Table 1: Area under the ROC curve (AUC) for gender(higher is better), and Mean Square Error (MSE) for ageand depression prediction (lower is better), and the pre-diction using 1st-per pronoun use overall, in subject andobject position, and given verb categories.
(u: subject-view), and object by component matrix(v: object-view).
We then build matrix S by multi-plying x by u and matrix O by multiplying z by vto get the verbs by CCA-components from subject-view, and verbs by object components from object-view respectively.
In order to cluster verbs fromdirect CCA components, we use the average scoreof subject-view and object-view components, assign-ing verbs to those components for which they havea non-zero absolute weight (CCA-D).
Sparse CCAzeros-out verbs from multiple components so as toassign verbs to components, but we also explorenormal CCA and cluster the verbs using k-means(k = 30) clustering from the z-scaled values of Sand O matrices (CCA-KM).Both Levin?s and CCA-based verb classes are de-rived from syntactic behavior.
As a result, they oftendo not distinguish antonyms.
For instance, Levin?s?admire" verb class contains both ?love?
and ?hate".Building on research showing positive and negativeemotions differ across age and gender (Schwartz etal., 2013), we integrate valence information in ourverb clustering.
We used positive and negative sen-timent scores from EmoLex word-emotion associa-tion lexicon (Mohammad and Turney, 2013), divid-ing each of our clusters into positive, negative, andneutral sub-classes.Analysis.
We explore the use of 1st-person singu-lar pronouns across age and gender in different syn-tactic and semantic contexts.
Features are encodedas the mean from maximum likelihood estimationVerb Clusters r1st person singular pronoun use -.171st person singular nominal subjectthank, celebrate, welcome, greet, applaud .09shake, freeze, melt, collect, bend, twist, squeeze .08hate, fear, regret, dislike, despise, dread, tolerate -.16write, draw, type, print, scratch, plot, sketch -.101st person singular direct objectjoin, pool, merge .05deny, suspect .04hate, fear, regret, dislike, despise, dread, tolerate -.09bore, worry, scare, bother, annoy, disappoint -.08Table 2: Linear regression coefficient of age and 1st per-son pronoun use in different verb clusters.over the probability of mentioning a first person sin-gular pronoun in a given context.
(a) The overall usage first person singular pro-noun:P (1p) = P (PN = 1p)(b) The probability of using first person singularpronoun in the nsubj, and the dobj positions:P (1p|r) = P (PN = 1p | rel = r)where rel ?
{nsubj, dobj}.
(c) The probability of using first person singularpronoun in the nsubj, and the dobj positions of agiven verb category:P (1p|r, c) = P (PN = 1p | rel = r, vcat = c)where rel ?
{nsubj, dobj} and vcat is the set of allverb categories being considered.4 EvaluationThe goal of our work is to expand the knowledgeof how the first-person singular pronoun, one of themost common word types in English, is related towho we are ?
our demographics and psychologicalstates.
We work toward this goal in an empiricalfashion, by first replicating known general relation-ships of 1st-person singular pronouns with gender,age, and depression, exploring how their use in dif-ferent syntactic positions, and, finally, by looking atrelationships within specific semantic contexts ac-cording to the verb classes described earlier.2056Verb Clusters ?1st person singular pronoun use .111st person singular nominal subjectlove, enjoy, respect, adore, cherish, admire .29miss, like, appreciate, trust, support, value .28destroy -.08kick, shoot, slap, smash, shove, slam -.071st person singular direct objectmake, blow, roll, hack, cast .22hold, handle, grasp, clutch, wield, grip .18hit, kick, strike, slap, smash, smack, bang, butt -.10add, mix, connect, link, combine, blend -.04Table 3: Logistic regression coefficient between genderand 1st person singular pronoun use in different verbclusters (positive is female).Replication.
We use standardized linear and lo-gistic regression to correlate gender, age, and de-pression with P (1p) (first-person singular pronounuse).
We control for age in the case of gender, gen-der in the case of age, and both gender and agein the case of depression by including them as co-variates in the regression and reporting the uniquecoefficient for the variable in question.
Logistic re-gression is used for gender, since it is binary, whilelinear regression is used for the continuous age anddepression variables.
Confirming past results, wefound significant relationships between first-personpronoun usage and gender (?
= .11, p < .001),age (r = ?0.17, p < .001), and depression score(r = ?0.06, p < .01).Syntactic Context.
Taking dependency relation-ships into account (P (1p|r)), we observed shiftsin the magnitude of correlations.
Specifically, wefound significant negative correlations between ageand using 1st-person singular pronoun in the subject(r = ?0.12, p < .001), and the object positions(r = ?0.17, p < .001).
For gender we found a sig-nificant positive correlation between being femaleand the probability of using 1st-person singular pro-noun (r = 0.11, p < .001), and 1st-person singularpronoun in subject position (r = 0.16, p < .001).For depression a significant positive correlation be-tween with P (1p) (r = 0.06, p < .05), and using1st-person singular pronoun in the subject position(r = 0.07, p < .05).Syntactic and Semantic Context.
Table 1 reportsthe area under the ROC curve (AUC) for gen-der prediction and the Mean Square Error (MSE)for predicting age and depression based on P (1p),P (1p|r), and P (1p|r, c), driven from various cate-gorization approaches.
We used AUC since it cancapture more differences in performance by evalu-ating the class probabilities of test instances ratherthan just finding whether it was right or wrong.
Weapplied 10-fold cross-validation with a linear-SVMin the case of gender, and ridge-regression in thecase of depression.
The obtained results reveal aconsistent pattern: in gender, age, and depressionprediction all the features that take context into ac-count outperform P (1p) which is the vastly reportedmeasure of self-reference in the literature.
This sug-gests that there is more information to be gained byutilization syntactic and semantic context.
In otherwords, we can achieve a more meaningful, deeperinsight into the relationship of subject and object po-sition of the first person in different contexts, reveal-ing a more complex, and more insightful set of rela-tions.We achieve the best performance by utilizing verbcategories.
We first observe that integrating sen-timent helps in nearly all verb categorization ap-proaches.
Next, we see that while both CCA andLevin verb clusters yield improvement in predic-tion accuracy, our performance gains using the data-driven CCA-based verb clustering are not as large asthat from Levin?s linguistically-driven classes.While we believe our features can improve pre-diction accuracy, that is not the primary applicationof social science research.
Rather, it is correlatingthe behavior of referencing the self with psycholog-ical conditions, like depression, in order to gain hu-man insights.
In the case of correlating behaviorwith a psychological measure, Pearson coefficientsabove .1 are considered noteworthy and above .3are considered approaching a ?correlational upper-bound" (Meyer et al, 2001).Tables 2, 3, and 4 show the most predictive fea-tures, using the best performing clustering method(i.e.
Levin & Sentiment).
Note that in the case ofage and gender, we see that not only does the mag-nitude of the relationship change, but it?s possiblethat the direction can completely change.For example, while males are less likely to2057Verb Clusters r1st person singular pronoun use .061st person singular nominal subjectcry, worry, suffer, fear, bother, ache, mourn, anger .11scare, annoy, confuse, depress, upset, disappoint .111st person singular direct objectkill, murder, slay, slaughter, butcher .09scare, annoy, confuse, depress, upset, disappoint .07Table 4: Linear regression coefficient of depression scoreand 1st person singular pronoun use in different verbclusters.use first-person singular pronouns overall, they aremuch more likely to use them as the subject of ag-gressive physical contact verbs like ?kick", ?shoot",?slap", and ?smash", suggesting men are more likelyto express themselves as agents of aggressive con-tact.
On the other hand, women use first-person sin-gulars in the social sphere, particularly in an affilia-tive context.
They assert themselves as agents of em-powering and encouraging others (e.g.
?love", ?en-joy", ?cherish", ?admire") and faith in others (e.g.
?trust", ?value", ?support", ?respect").5 ConclusionWe have shown that the well-studied link be-tween the first-person singular pronoun and humanpsycho-demographics is largely dependent on itssyntactic and semantic context.
Many theories andconclusions are built on such relationships, but herewe show these relationships depend on verbal con-text; correlations can shrink, grow, and even changedirections depending on the verbs governing the pro-noun.
For example, while the usage of 1st personsingular pronoun decreases over age, it increases ifit is used as the subject of verbs such as ?thank", and?celebrate", or as the object of verbs such as ?join".Similarly, while females tend to use 1st person sin-gular pronouns more than males, they use them lessoften as the subject of ?destroy?
verbs or as the ob-ject of ?hit?
and ?kick?
verbs.By integrating syntactic dependency relationshipsalong with semantic classes of verbs, we can cap-ture more nuanced linguistic relationships with hu-man factors.
Beyond pronouns, we ultimately aimto expand the regimen of open-vocabulary tech-niques available for the analysis of psychologically-relevant outcomes.AcknowledgmentsThe authors acknowledge the support from Temple-ton Religion Trust, grant TRT-0048.ReferencesWaleed Ammar, George Mulcaire, Yulia Tsvetkov, Guil-laume Lample, Chris Dyer, and Noah A Smith.
2016.Massively multilingual word embeddings.
arXivpreprint arXiv:1602.01925.Shlomo Argamon, Moshe Koppel, James W Pennebaker,and Jonathan Schler.
2007.
Mining the blogosphere:Age, gender and the varieties of self-expression.
FirstMonday, 12(9).Wilma Bucci and Norbert Freedman.
1981.
The lan-guage of depression.
Bulletin of the Menninger Clinic,45(4):334.Angela L Carey, Melanie S Brucks, Albrecht CP K?fner,Nicholas S Holtzman, Mitja D Back, M Brent Don-nellan, James W Pennebaker, Matthias R Mehl, et al2015.
Narcissism and the use of personal pronouns re-visited.
Journal of personality and social psychology,109(3):e1.Cindy Chung and James W Pennebaker.
2007.
The psy-chological functions of function words.
Social com-munication, pages 343?359.Paramveer S. Dhillon, Dean Foster, and Lyle Ungar.2011.
Multi-view learning of word embeddings viacca.
In Advances in Neural Information ProcessingSystems (NIPS), volume 24.Lewis R Goldberg.
1999.
A broad-bandwidth, public do-main, personality inventory measuring the lower-levelfacets of several five-factor models.
Personality psy-chology in Europe, 7(1):7?28.Lori Kendall.
1998.
Meaning and identity in ?A?IJcy-berspace?A?I?
: The performance of gender, class, andrace online.
Symbolic interaction, 21(2):129?153.Michal Kosinski, David Stillwell, and Thore Graepel.2013.
Private traits and attributes are predictable fromdigital records of human behavior.
Proceedings of theNational Academy of Sciences, 110(15):5802?5805.Beth Levin.
1993.
English verb classes and alternations:A preliminary investigation.
University of Chicagopress.Gregory J Meyer, Stephen E Finn, Lorraine D Eyde,Gary G Kay, Kevin L Moreland, Robert R Dies,Elena J Eisman, Tom W Kubiszyn, and Geoffrey MReed.
2001.
Psychological testing and psychologicalassessment: A review of evidence and issues.
Ameri-can psychologist, 56(2):128.Saif M Mohammad and Peter D Turney.
2013.
Crowd-sourcing a word?emotion association lexicon.
Com-putational Intelligence, 29(3):436?465.2058Shigehiro Oishi, Jesse Graham, Selin Kesebir, andIolanda Costa Galinha.
2013.
Concepts of happinessacross time and cultures.
Personality and Social Psy-chology Bulletin, 39(5):559?577.James W Pennebaker and Lori D Stone.
2003.
Words ofwisdom: language use over the life span.
Journal ofpersonality and social psychology, 85(2):291.James W Pennebaker.
2011.
The secret life of pronouns.New Scientist, 211(2828):42?45.H Andrew Schwartz, Johannes C Eichstaedt, Margaret LKern, Lukasz Dziurzynski, Stephanie M Ramones,Megha Agrawal, Achal Shah, Michal Kosinski, DavidStillwell, Martin EP Seligman, et al 2013.
Per-sonality, gender, and age in the language of socialmedia: The open-vocabulary approach.
PloS one,8(9):e73791.H Andrew Schwartz, Johannes Eichstaedt, Margaret LKern, Gregory Park, Maarten Sap, David Stillwell,Michal Kosinski, and Lyle Ungar.
2014.
Towards as-sessing changes in degree of depression through face-book.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on Compu-tational Linguistics and Clinical Psychology: FromLinguistic Signal to Clinical Reality, pages 118?125.Citeseer.Richard Socher, John Bauer, Christopher D Manning, andAndrew Y Ng.
2013.
Parsing with compositional vec-tor grammars.
In ACL (1), pages 455?465.Jean M Twenge, W Keith Campbell, and Brittany Gen-tile.
2012.
Male and female pronoun use in us booksreflects women?A?Z?s status, 1900?2008.
Sex roles,67(9-10):488?493.Walter Weintraub.
1981.
Verbal behavior: Adaptationand psychopathology.
Springer Publishing Company.Johannes Zimmermann, Markus Wolf, Astrid Bock,Doris Peham, and Cord Benecke.
2013.
The way werefer to ourselves reflects how we relate to others: As-sociations between first-person pronoun use and inter-personal problems.
Journal of research in personality,47(3):218?225.2059
