Proceedings of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 2225?2229,Austin, Texas, November 1-5, 2016. c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsTense Manages to Predict Implicative Behavior in VerbsEllie PavlickUniversity of Pennsylvaniaepavlick@seas.upenn.eduChris Callison-BurchUniversity of Pennsylvaniaccb@cis.upenn.eduAbstractImplicative verbs (e.g.
manage) entail theircomplement clauses, while non-implicativeverbs (e.g.
want) do not.
For example, whilemanaging to solve the problem entails solvingthe problem, no such inference follows fromwanting to solve the problem.
Differentiat-ing between implicative and non-implicativeverbs is therefore an essential component ofnatural language understanding, relevant toapplications such as textual entailment andsummarization.
We present a simple methodfor predicting implicativeness which exploitsknown constraints on the tense of implicativeverbs and their complements.
We show thatthis yields an effective, data-driven way ofcapturing this nuanced property in verbs.1 OverviewUnderstanding language requires the ability to per-form basic inference?
to make conclusions aboutwhat is likely true or false based on what is said.
Forexample, given the sentence She fixed the bug, weshould almost certainly infer that the bug is fixed.However, rather than stating plainly that She fixedthe bug, one might instead say:(1a) She managed to fix the bug before midnight.
(1b) She happened to fix the bug while refactoring.In either case, the hearer should still infer that thebug is fixed.
But it is not as easy as always inferringthat embedded clauses are true.
By changing onlyone word, these sentence no longer give a clear indi-cation as to whether or not the bug has been fixed:(2a) She wanted to fix the bug before midnight.
(2b) She planned to fix the bug while refactoring.Implicative verbs, like those in (1), give rise to en-tailments, while non-implicative verbs, like those in(2), do not.
It is therefore vital to natural languageunderstanding to differentiate between clauses thatare embedded under implicatives, which we can of-ten infer to be either true or false, and those whichare embedded under non-implicatives, for whichsuch inferences cannot be made.
In this paper, weexploit a known linguistic property of implicativeverbs?
that their complement clause is constrainedto be in the same tense as the main clause?
in or-der to predict the tendency of verbs to behave im-plicatively.
We show that our method almost per-fectly separates non-implicatives from implicativesin a small hand-labeled dataset, and that it providesstrong signal for predicting entailments in sentencesinvolving implicative verbs.2 Implicative VerbsSome English verbs can take infinitival comple-ments, meaning they can appear in constructions ofthe form VB?1 to VB2, where VB?1 is the ?main?
verb(which can be conjugated1) and VB2 is the ?com-plement?
verb (which is in infinitive form).
Exam-ples (1a)-(2b) illustrate verbs taking infinitive com-plements.Implicative verbs are a special subclass2 of suchverbs which give rise to entailments involving their1Here, * indicates that VB1 can match any verb form, e.g.VB, VBD, VBP, etc.
VB2 can only match the base form VB.2We note that factive verbs represent another special class ofverbs which can take infinitival complements.
Unlike implica-2225Is the main verb Is the complement Examplenegated?
entailed?Implicative ?
Yes I managed to solve the problem.
?
I solved the problem.Implicative + No I did not manage to solve the problem.
?
I did not solve the problem.Implicative ?
No I failed to solve the problem.
?
I did not solve the problem.Implicative + Yes I did not fail to solve the problem.
?
I solved the problem.Non-Impl.
?
Unknown I wanted to solve the problem.
6?
I solved the problem.Non-Impl.
+ Unknown I did not want to solve the problem.
6?
I did not solve the problem.Table 1: Implicative verbs give rise to entailments involving their complement clauses.
Non-implicatives entail neither the truthnor the falsity of their complements, and thus the truth/falsity of the complement is unaffected by negation of the main clause.complement clauses.
Individual implicatives candiffer in the entailments they generate: e.g.
whilemanage entails the truth of its complement, fail en-tails the falsity of its complement (failed to solve theproblem?
didn?t solve the problem).
Despite thesedifferences, however, implicatives represent a coher-ent class of verbs in that they permit some inferenceto be made about their complements, and this infer-ence is sensitive to the context (positive/negated) ofthe main clause.
This contrasts with non-implicativeverbs, like want, which do not permit any inferenceregarding their complements, and for which the truthof the complement is unaffected by negation in themain clause (Table 1).The method described in this paper aims to sep-arate implicatives from non-implicatives (managevs.
want), rather than to differentiate betweentypes implicatives (manage vs. fail).
Making thisimplicative/non-implicative distinction is a neces-sary first step toward handling inferences involvingembedded clauses, and one that, to date, has onlybeen performed using manually-constructed wordlists (MacCartney, 2009; Recasens et al, 2013).2.1 Tense Constraints on Complement ClausesKarttunen (1971) observed that, in sentences in-volving implicatives, the tense of the main verbmust necessarily match the tense of the complementclause.
For example, (3), in which the main clauseand the complement are both in the past tense, is ac-ceptable but (4), in which the complement is in thefuture, is clearly not.
For non-implicatives, however,tives, factives presuppose, rather than entail, their complements.E.g.
both I was/was not glad to solve the problem entail I solvedthe problem.
We do not address factives here, as factives rarelytake infinitival complements: more often, they take ?that?
com-plements (e.g.
know that, realize that).
Factives that do takeinfinitival complements are mostly phrasal (e.g.
be glad to).no such constraint exists: (6) is perfectly felicitous.
(3) I managed to solve the problem last night.
(4) #I managed to solve the problem tomorrow.
(5) I planned to solve the problem last night.
(6) I planned to solve the problem tomorrow.We exploit this property to predict implicativeness?whether the truth of a verb?s complement can beinferred?
by observing the verb?s usage in practice.3 MethodWe hypothesize that, given a large corpus, we shouldbe able to distinguish implicative verbs from non-implicative verbs by observing how often the mainverb tense agrees/disagrees with the tense of thecomplement clause.
Unfortunately, verbs in infini-tival complement clauses are not conjugated, and soare not necessarily marked for tense.
We thereforeuse the Stanford Temporal Tagger (TT) (Chang andManning, 2012) in order to identify time-referringexpressions (e.g.
tomorrow or last night) and resolvethem to either past, present, or future tense.We find all sentences containing VB?1 to VB2constructions in the Annotated Gigaword corpus(Napoles et al, 2012).
We run the the TT over allof the sentences in order to identify time-referringexpressions.
We only consider sentences in whicha time-referring expression appears and is in a di-rect dependency relationship with the complementverb (VB2).
We provide the TT with the documentpublication dates,3 which are used to resolve eachtime mention to a specific calendar date and time.We then map these time expressions coarsely to ei-ther past, present, or future tense by comparing the3Provided as metadata in the Annotated Gigaword.2226resolved time to the document creation time.
Be-cause of the fact that days were often not resolvedcorrectly, or at all, we eventually throw away sen-tences in which the complement clause is labeled aspresent tense, as these are rarely true references tothe present, and rather the result of incorrect timeresolution, or implicit future references (e.g.
I amgoing to solve the problem today implies the futureas in later today, but this is not captured by the TT).We also assign the main clause to past, present, orfuture tense by using the fine-grained POS tag and aset of heuristics (for example, to check for modals).4We assign a tense agreement score to eachverb v as follows.
Let S be the set of all VB?1to VB2 constructions in which VB?1 = v. Thentense agreement is simply 1|S| ?
|{s ?
S |complement tense = main tense}|, i.e.
the fractionof constructions in S in which the tenses of the mainand complement clauses agree.
We expect implica-tive verbs to occur mostly in agreeing constructions,and thus have high tense agreement, while non-implicatives may occur in both agreeing and non-agreeing constructions, and thus should have lowertense agreement.
Note that while in theory, implica-tives should never appear in non-agreeing construc-tions, the time annotation process is very imprecise,and thus we do not expect perfect results.4 EvaluationRecreating list from Karttunen (1971).
Kart-tunen (1971) provides a short illustrative list of 7known implicatives5 and 8 non-implicatives (shownin Table 2).
As a first evaluation, we test whethertense agreement can accurately separate the verbsin this list, such that the implicatives are assignedhigher agreement scores than the non-implicatives.Table 2 shows that this is indeed the case.
Tenseagreement almost perfectly divides the list, withimplicative verbs appearing above non-implicativeverbs in all cases.
The one exception is decide(reportedly non-implicative), which appears abovedare (reportedly implicative).
This error, however,4Full set of heuristics in supplementary material.5The original list had 8 implicatives, but we omit remembersince, in our data, it occurred almost exclusively with recur-ring time expressions, which we were not able to map to a spe-cific date/time and thus tense, e.g.
consumers must rememberto make payments every 14 days.seems understandable: while decide is not strictlyimplicative in the way manage is, it is often used asan implicative.
E.g.
the sentence I decided to leavewould likely be taken to mean I left.venture to 1.00 try to 0.42forget to 0.80 agree to 0.34manage to 0.79 promise to 0.22bother to 0.61 want to 0.14happen to 0.59 intend to 0.12get to 0.52 plan to 0.10decide to 0.45 hope to 0.03dare to 0.44Table 2: Tense agreement scores for known implicatives (bold)and non-implicatives listed in Karttunen (1971).
Ranking bytense agreement almost perfectly divides the two classes.Predicting Entailment.
Our interest is not in dis-tinguishing implicatives from non-implicatives forits own sake, but rather to predict, based on the mainverb, whether the truth of the complement can be in-ferred.
We therefore conduct a second evaluation toassess how well tense agreement predicts this entail-ment property.
We design our evaluation followingthe recognizing textual entailment (RTE) task (Da-gan et al, 2006), in which two sentences are given,a premise p and a hypothesis h, and the goal is todetermine whether p reasonably entails h. To con-struct our p/h pairs, we take all the verbs extractedin Section 3 which appear in at least 50 tense-labeledsentences.
For each of these verbs, we choose 3 ran-dom sentences in which the verb appears as VB?1 ina VB?1 to VB2 construction.6 From each sentence,we extract the complement clause by deleting VB?1 tofrom the sentence, and conjugating VB2 to match thetense of VB?1.
We then use the original sentence as pand the extracted complement as h: e.g.
a p/h pairmight look like I get to interact with fellow profes-sors/I interact with fellow professors.
We ask 5 in-dependent annotators on Amazon Mechanical Turkto read each p and then determine whether h is true,false, or unclear given p.7 We take the majority an-swer as the true label.
We expect that implicativeverbs should lead to judgements which are decid-edly true or false while non-implicatives should lead6These sentences can come from anywhere in the Gigawordcorpus, they are not required to contain time expressions.7Full annotation guidelines in supplementary material.2227(0.14) UFJ wants to merge with Mitsubishi, a combination that?d surpass Citigroup as the world?s biggest bank.6?
The merger of Japanese Banks creates the world?s biggest bank.
(0.55) After graduating, Gallager chose to accept a full scholarship to play football for Temple University.?
Gallager attended Temple University.
(0.68) Wilkins was allowed to leave in 1987 to join French outfit Paris Saint-Germain.
?Wilkins departed Milan in 1987.Table 3: Examples from the RTE3 dataset (Giampiccolo et al, 2007) which require recognizing implicative behavior, even in verbsthat are not implicative by definition.
The tendency of certain verbs (e.g.
be allowed) to behave as de facto implicatives is capturedsurprisingly well by the tense agreement score (shown in parentheses).to mostly judgements of unclear.Figure 1 shows that these expectations hold.When a verb with low tense agreement appeared asthe main verb of a sentence, the truth of the comple-ment could only be inferred 30% of the time.
Whena verb with high tense agreement appeared as themain verb, the truth of the complement could be in-ferred 91% of the time.
This difference is significantat p < 0.01.
That is, tense agreement provides astrong signal for identifying non-implicative verbs,and thus can help systems avoid false-positive en-tailment judgements, e.g.
incorrectly inferring thatwanting to merge?
merging (Table 3).Figure 1: Whether or not complement is entailed for main verbswith varying levels of tense agreement.
Verbs with high tenseagreement yield more definitive judgments (true/false).
Eachbar represents aggregated judgements over approx.
20 verbs.Interestingly, tense agreement accurately mod-els verbs that are not implicative by definition, butwhich nonetheless tend to behave implicatively inpractice.
For example, our method finds high tenseagreement for choose to and be allowed to, whichare often used to communicate, albeit indirectly, thattheir complements did in fact happen.
To convinceourselves that treating such verbs as implicativesmakes sense in practice, we manually look throughthe RTE3 dataset (Giampiccolo et al, 2007) for ex-amples containing high-scoring verbs according toour method.
Table 3 shows some example inferencesthat hinge precisely on recognizing these types of defacto implicatives.5 Discussion and Related WorkLanguage understanding tasks such as RTE (Clarket al, 2007; MacCartney, 2009) and bias detection(Recasens et al, 2013) have been shown to requireknowledge of implicative verbs, but such knowledgehas previously come from manually-built word listsrather than from data.
Nairn et al (2006) and Mar-tin et al (2009) describe automatic systems to han-dle implicatives, but require hand-crafted rules foreach unique verb that is handled.
The tense agree-ment method we present offers a starting point foracquiring such rules from data, and is well-suitedfor incorporating into statistical systems.
The clearnext step is to explore similar data-driven means forlearning the specific behaviors of individual implica-tive verbs, which has been well-studied from a the-oretical perspective (Karttunen, 1971; Nairn et al,2006; Amaral et al, 2012; Karttunen, 2012).
An-other interesting extension concerns the role of tensein word representations.
While currently, tense israrely built directly into distributional representa-tions of words (Mikolov et al, 2013; Pennington etal., 2014), our results suggest it may offer importantinsights into the semantics of individual words.
Weleave this question as a direction for future work.6 ConclusionDifferentiating between implicative and non-implicative verbs is important for discriminatinginferences that can and cannot be made in naturallanguage.
We have presented a data-driven method2228that captures the implicative tendencies of verbsby exploiting the tense relationship between theverb and its complement clauses.
This methodeffectively separates known implicatives fromknown non-implicatives, and, more importantly,provides good predictive signal in an entailmentrecognition task.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Florian Schwartz for valu-able discussions.
This research was supported bya Facebook Fellowship, and by gifts from the Al-fred P. Sloan Foundation, Google, and Facebook.This material is based in part on research sponsoredby the NSF grant under IIS-1249516 and DARPAunder number FA8750-13-2-0017 (the DEFT pro-gram).
The U.S. Government is authorized to repro-duce and distribute reprints for Governmental pur-poses.
The views and conclusions contained in thispublication are those of the authors and should notbe interpreted as representing official policies or en-dorsements of DARPA and the U.S. Government.ReferencesPatricia Amaral, Valeria de Paiva, Cleo Condoravdi, andAnnie Zaenen.
2012.
Where?s the meeting that wascancelled?
existential implications of transitive verbs.In Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Cognitive As-pects of the Lexicon, pages 183?194, Mumbai, India,December.
The COLING 2012 Organizing Commit-tee.Angel X Chang and Christopher D Manning.
2012.
Su-time: A library for recognizing and normalizing timeexpressions.
In LREC, pages 3735?3740.Peter Clark, Phil Harrison, John Thompson, WilliamMurray, Jerry Hobbs, and Christiane Fellbaum.
2007.On the role of lexical and world knowledge in rte3.
InProceedings of the ACL-PASCAL Workshop on TextualEntailment and Paraphrasing, pages 54?59, Prague,June.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Ido Dagan, Oren Glickman, and Bernardo Magnini.2006.
The PASCAL recognizing textual entailmentchallenge.
In Machine Learning Challenges.
Evalu-ating Predictive Uncertainty, Visual Object Classifica-tion, and Recognising Tectual Entailment, pages 177?190.
Springer.Danilo Giampiccolo, Bernardo Magnini, Ido Dagan, andBill Dolan.
2007.
The third PASCAL recognising tex-tual entailment challenge.
In Proceedings of the ACL-PASCAL workshop on textual entailment and para-phrasing, pages 1?9.Lauri Karttunen.
1971.
Implicative verbs.
Language,pages 340?358.Lauri Karttunen.
2012.
Simple and phrasal implicatives.In *SEM 2012: The First Joint Conference on Lexi-cal and Computational Semantics ?
Volume 1: Pro-ceedings of the main conference and the shared task,and Volume 2: Proceedings of the Sixth InternationalWorkshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval 2012),pages 124?131, Montre?al, Canada, 7-8 June.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Bill MacCartney.
2009.
Natural language inference.Ph.D.
thesis, Citeseer.Fabienne Martin, Dennis Spohr, and Achim Stein.
2009.Disambiguation of polysemous verbs for rule-basedinferencing.
In Proceedings of the Eight InternationalConference on Computational Semantics, pages 222?234, Tilburg, The Netherlands, January.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Tomas Mikolov, Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and JeffreyDean.
2013.
Efficient estimation of word representa-tions in vector space.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1301.3781.Rowan Nairn, Cleo Condoravdi, and Lauri Karttunen.2006.
Computing relative polarity for textual infer-ence.
Inference in Computational Semantics (ICoS-5),pages 20?21.Courtney Napoles, Matthew Gormley, and BenjaminVan Durme.
2012.
Annotated gigaword.
In Pro-ceedings of the Joint Workshop on Automatic Knowl-edge Base Construction and Web-scale Knowledge Ex-traction (AKBC-WEKEX), pages 95?100, Montre?al,Canada, June.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Jeffrey Pennington, Richard Socher, and Christopher D.Manning.
2014.
Glove: Global vectors for word rep-resentation.
In Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing (EMNLP), pages 1532?1543.Marta Recasens, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, andDan Jurafsky.
2013.
Linguistic models for analyzingand detecting biased language.
In Proceedings of the51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages1650?1659, Sofia, Bulgaria, August.
Association forComputational Linguistics.2229
