Multilingual Term Extraction from Domain-specific CorporaUsing Morphological StructureDelphine BernhardTIMC-IMAGInstitut de l?Inge?nierie et de l?Information de Sante?Faculte?
de Me?decineF-38706 LA TRONCHE cedexDelphine.Bernhard@imag.frAbstractMorphologically complex terms com-posed from Greek or Latin elements arefrequent in scientific and technical texts.Word forming units are thus relevant cuesfor the identification of terms in domain-specific texts.
This article describes amethod for the automatic extraction ofterms relying on the detection of classi-cal prefixes and word-initial combiningforms.
Word-forming units are identi-fied using a regular expression.
The sys-tem then extracts terms by selecting wordswhich either begin or coalesce with theseelements.
Next, terms are grouped in fam-ilies which are displayed as a weighted listin HTML format.1 IntroductionMany methods for the automatic extraction ofterms make use of patterns describing the structureof terms.
This approach is especially helpful formulti-word terms.
Depending on the method, pat-terns rely on morpho-syntactic properties (Daille,1996; Ibekwe-SanJuan, 1998), the co-occurrenceof terms and connectors (Enguehard, 1992; Ba-roni and Bernardini, 2004) or the alternation ofinformative and non-informative words (Vergne,2005).
These patterns use words as basic unitsand thus apply to multi-word terms.
Methods forthe acquisition of single-word terms generally de-pend on frequency-related information.
For in-stance, the frequency of occurrence of a word ina domain-specific corpus can be compared withits frequency of occurrence in a reference corpus(Rayson and Garside, 2000; Baroni and Bernar-dini, 2004).
Technical words usually have a highrelative frequency difference between the domain-specific corpus and the reference corpus.In this paper, we present a pattern-based tech-nique to extract single-word terms.
In technicaland scientific domains like medicine many termsare derivatives or neoclassical compounds (Cot-tez, 1984).
There are several types of classicalword-forming units: prefixes (extra-, anti-), ini-tial combining forms (hydro-, pharmaco-), suf-fixes (-ism) and final combining forms (-graphy,-logy).
Interestingly, these units are rather con-stant in many European languages (Namer, 2005).Consequently, instead of relying on a subword dic-tionary to analyse compounds like (Schulz et al,2002), our method makes use of these regularitiesto automatically extract prefixes and initial com-bining forms from corpora.
The system then iden-tifies terms by selecting words which either beginor coalesce with these units.
Moreover, formingelements are used to group terms in morphologicaland hence semantic families.
The different stagesof the process are detailed in section 2.
Section 3describes the results of experiments performed onfour corpora, in English and in French.2 Description of the method2.1 Extraction of wordsThe system takes as input a corpus of texts.
Para-graphs written in another language than the targetlanguage are filtered out.
Texts are then tokenisedand words are converted to lowercase.
Besides,words containing digits or other non-word charac-ters are eliminated.
However, hyphenated wordsare kept since hyphens mark morpheme bound-aries.
This preliminary step produces a word fre-quency list for the corpus.1712.2 Acquisition of combining formsPrefixes and initial combining forms are auto-matically acquired using the following regularexpression: ([aio]-)?(\w{3,}[aio])-.
This regu-lar expression represents character strings whoselength is higher or equal to 4, ending with a,i or o and immediately followed by a hyphen.The first part of the regular expression accountsfor words where several prefixes or combiningforms follow one another (as for instance inthe French word ?he?pato-gastro-ente?rologues?
).This regular expression applies to English butalso to other languages like French or German:see for instance ?chimio-radiothe?rapie?
in French,?chemo-radiotherapy?
in English or ?Chemo-radiotherapie?
in German.2.3 Identification of termsTerms are identified using the following patterndescribing their morphological structure: E+Wwhere E is a prefix or combining form and W is aword whose length is higher than 3; the ?+?
charac-ter represents the possible succession of several Eelements at the beginning of a term.
Prefixes andcombining forms may be separated by a hyphen.When this pattern applies to one of the words inthe corpus, two terms are recognised, one with aE+W structure and the other with a W structure.For instance, given the word ?ferrobasalts?, thesystem identifies the terms ?ferrobasalts?
(E+W)and ?basalts?
(W).2.4 Conflation of termsTerm variants are grouped in order to ease theanalysis of results.
The method for terms confla-tion can be decomposed in two stages:1.
Terms containing the same word W belong tothe same family, represented by the word W.For instance, both ?chemotherapy?
and ?ra-diotherapy?
contain the word ?therapy?
: theybelong to the same family of terms, repre-sented by the word ?therapy?.2.
Two families are merged if they are rep-resented by words sharing the same ini-tial substring (with a minimum initial sub-string length of 4) and if the same prefixor combining form occurs in one term ofeach family.
Consider for instance the fam-ilies F1= [oncology, psycho-oncology, radio-oncology, neuro-oncology, psychooncology,neurooncology] and F2 = [oncologist, neuro-oncologist].
The terms representing F1 (?on-cology?)
and F2 (?oncologist?)
share an ini-tial substring of length 7.
Moreover theterms ?neuro-oncology?
from F1 and ?neuro-oncologist?
from F2 contain the combiningform ?neuro?.
Families F1 and F2 are there-fore united.When terms have been conflated, we select themost frequent term as a family?s representative.2.5 Data visualisationThe results obtained are displayed as a weightedlist in HTML format.
Such lists, also named ?heatmaps?
or ?tag clouds?
when they describe tags1usually represent the terms and topics which ap-pear most frequently on websites or RSS feeds(Wikipedia, 2006).
They can also be used to rep-resent any kind of word list (Ve?ronis, 2005).
Dif-ferent colours and font sizes are used dependingon the word?s frequency of occurrence.
We haveadapted this method to visualise the list of ex-tracted terms.
Since several hundred terms maybe extracted, only the terms representing a fam-ily are displayed on the weighted list.
Weight isgiven by the cumulated frequency of all the termsbelonging to the family (see Figure 1).Figure 1: Term cloud example (Corpus: BC en)Further information (terms and frequencies) isdisplayed thanks to tooltips (see Figure 2), us-ing the JavaScript overLIB libray ( http://www.bosrup.com/web/overlib).1See for example TagCloud: http://www.tagcloud.com172Figure 2: Detailed term family displayed as atooltip (Corpus: V fr)3 Experiments and results3.1 CorporaThe system has been experimented on 4 corporacovering the domains of volcanology (V) andbreast cancer (BC), in English (en) and in French(fr).
The corpora have been automatically builtfrom the web, using the methodology describedin (Baroni and Bernardini, 2004), via the Ya-hoo!
Search Web Services ( http://developer.yahoo.net/search/).
The size of the corpora ob-tained are given in Table 1.
This table also givesthe number of key words, i.e., single-word termsextracted by comparing the frequency of occur-rence of words in both corpora for each language(Rayson and Garside, 2000).
Only terms with alog-likelihood of 3.8 or higher (p<0.05) have beenkept in the key words list.
Table 2 gives a nu-merical overview of the results obtained by ourmethod.Corpus Tokens Word forms Key wordsBC fr 1,451,809 46,834 13,700BC en 7,044,146 88,726 17,602V fr 1,777,030 59,909 13,673V en 2,929,591 48,257 19,641Table 1: Size of the corpora3.2 Prefixes and initial combining formsAs shown by Table 2, the number of prefixes andinitial combining forms identified is proportion-ally less for the volcanology corpora both in En-glish and in French.
Medical corpora seem tobe more adapted to the method since the num-Corpus Word-formingelementsTerms TermfamiliesBC fr 334 4,248 911BC en 382 5,444 1,338V fr 182 1,842 583V en 188 1,648 564Table 2: Number of word-forming elements, termsand term families identified for each corpusber of terms extracted is higher.
The prefixesand combining forms identified are also highlydependent on the corpus domain.
For instance,amongst the most frequent combining forms ex-tracted for the BC corpora, we find ?radio?
and?chemo?
(?chimio?
in French) and for the V cor-pora, ?strato?
and ?volcano?.3.3 TermsThe overlap percentage between the list of termsand the list of key words ranges from 38.65%(V fr) to 56.92% (V en) of the total amount ofterms extracted.
If we compare both the list of keywords and the list of terms extracted for the BC encorpus with the Unified Medical Language Sys-tem Metathesaurus (http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/) we notice that some highly spe-cific terms like ?disease?, ?blood?
or ?x-ray?
arenot identified by our method, while they occurin the key words list.
These are usually mor-phologically simple terms, also used in everydaylanguage.
Conversely, terms with low frequencylike ?adenoacanthoma?, ?chondroma?
or ?mam-motomy?
are correctly identified by the pattern-based approach but are missing in the key wordslist.
Both methods are therefore complementary.In some cases, stop-words are extracted.
Thisis a side effect of the pattern used to retrieveterms.
Remember that terms are words which co-alesce with combining forms, possibly with hy-phenation.
In English hyphens are sometimes mis-takenly used instead of the dash to mark com-ment clauses.
Consider for instance the follow-ing sentence: ?As this magma-which drives oneof the worlds largest volcanic systems-rises, itpushes up the Earths crust beneath the Yellow-stone Plateau.?.
Here ?magma?
is identified asa combining form since it ends with ?a?
and isdirectly followed by a hyphen.
Consequently,?which?
is wrongly identified as a term.1733.4 Term familiesSeveral types of term variants are grouped by theterm conflation algorithm: (a) graphical and ortho-graphical variants like ?tumour?
(British variant)and ?tumor?
(American variant); (b) inflectionalvariants like ?tumor?
and ?tumors?
; (c) deriva-tional variants like ?tumor?
and ?tumoral?.Two types of conflation errors may however oc-cur: over-conflation, i.e., the conflation of termswhich do not belong to the same morphologi-cal family and under-conflation, i.e.
the absenceof conflation for morphologically related terms.Some cases of over-conflation are obvious, suchas the grouping of ?significant?
with ?cant?.
Insome other cases it is more difficult to tell.
Thisespecially applies to the conflation of terms com-posed of word final combining forms like ?-gram?or ?-graph?.
Under-conflation occurs when nocombining form is shared between terms belong-ing to families represented by graphically similarterms.
For instance, the following term familiesare extracted from the French volcanology corpus(V fr): F1= [basalte, me?tabasalte, me?ta-basalte],F2= [basaltes, ferro-basaltes, pale?obasaltes] andF3= [basaltique, ande?sitico-basaltique].
Thesefamilies are not conflated, even though they ob-viously belong to the same morphological family.4 ConclusionWe have presented a method for the automatic ac-quisition of terms from domain-specific texts us-ing morphological structure.
The method alsogroups terms in morphological families.
Fami-lies are displayed as a weighted list, thus givingan instant overview of the main topics in the cor-pus under study.
Results obtained from the firstexperiments confirm the usefulness of a morpho-logical pattern based approach for the extractionof terms from domain-specific corpora and espe-cially medical texts.
The method for the identifi-cation of compound words could be improved byan automatic approach to morphological segmen-tation as done by (Creutz and Lagus, 2004).
Termclustering could be ameliorated as well by investi-gating the usefulness of stemming to avoid under-conflation.ReferencesMarco Baroni and Silvia Bernardini.
2004.
Boot-CaT: Bootstrapping Corpora and Terms from theWeb.
In Proceedings of the Fourth InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC), pages 1313?1316.Henri Cottez.
1984.
Dictionnaire des structures du vo-cabulaire savant.
E?le?ments et mode`les de formation.Le Robert, Paris, 3rd edition.Mathias Creutz and Krista Lagus.
2004.
Induc-tion of a Simple Morphology for Highly-InflectingLanguages.
In Proceedings of the 7th Meeting ofthe ACL Special Interest Group in ComputationalPhonology (SIGPHON), pages 43?51.Be?atrice Daille.
1996.
Study and Implementation ofCombined Techniques for Automatic Extraction ofTerminology.
In Judith Klavans and Philip Resnik,editors, The Balancing Act: Combining Symbolicand Statistical Approaches to Language, pages 49?66.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Chantal Enguehard.
1992.
ANA, Apprentissage Na-turel Automatique d?un Re?seau Se?mantique.
Ph.D.thesis, Universite?
de Technologie de Compie`gne.Fidelia Ibekwe-SanJuan.
1998.
Terminological vari-ation, a means of identifying research topics fromtexts.
In Proceedings of the Joint International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics (COLING-ACL?98), pages 564?570.Fiammetta Namer.
2005.
Morphose?mantique pourl?appariement de termes dans le vocabulaire me?dical: approche multilingue.
In Actes de TALN 2005,pages 63?72.Paul Rayson and Roger Garside.
2000.
ComparingCorpora using Frequency Profiling.
In Proceedingsof the ACL Workshop on Comparing Corpora, pages1?6.Stefan Schulz, Martin Honeck, and Udo Hahn.
2002.Biomedical Text Retrieval in Languages with aComplex Morphology.
In Proceedings of the ACLWorkshop on Natural Language Processing in theBiomedical Domain, pages 61?68.Jacques Vergne.
2005.
Une me?thode inde?pendantedes langues pour indexer les documents de l?internetpar extraction de termes de structure contro?le?e.
InActes de la Confe?rence Internationale sur le Docu-ment E?lectronique (CIDE 8), pages 155?168.Jean Ve?ronis.
2005.
Nuage de mots d?aujourd?hui.http://aixtal.blogspot.com/2005/07/lexique-nuage-de-mots-daujourdhui.html.
[Online; accessed 31-January-2006].Wikipedia.
2006.
RSS (file format) ?Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia.
http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=RSS_(file_format)&oldid=37472136.
[On-line; accessed 31-January-2006].174
