Generating and Visualizing a Soccer Knowledge BasePaul Buitelaar, Thomas Eigner, Greg Gul-rajani, Alexander Schutz, Melanie Siegel,Nicolas WeberLanguage Technology Lab, DFKI GmbHSaarbr?cken, Germany{paulb,siegel}@dfki.dePhilipp Cimiano, G?nter Ladwig,Matthias Mantel, Honggang ZhuInstitute AIFB, University of KarlsruheKarlsruhe, Germanycimiano@aifb.uni-karlsruhe.deAbstractThis demo abstract describes the SmartWebOntology-based Annotation system (SOBA).A key feature of SOBA is that all informa-tion is extracted and stored with respect tothe SmartWeb Integrated Ontology(SWIntO).
In this way, other components ofthe systems, which use the same ontology,can access this information in a straightfor-ward way.
We will show how informationextracted by SOBA is visualized within itsoriginal context, thus enhancing the browsingexperience of the end user.1 IntroductionSmartWeb1 is a multi-modal dialog system,which derives answers from unstructured re-sources such as the Web, from automatically ac-quired knowledge bases and from web services.In this paper we describe the current status ofthe SmartWeb Ontology-Based Annotation(SOBA) system.
SOBA automatically populatesa knowledge base by information extraction fromsoccer match reports as available on the web.The extracted information is defined with respectto SWIntO, the underlying SmartWeb IntegratedOntology (Oberle et al, in preparation) in orderto be smoothly integrated into the system.The ability to extract information and describeit ontologically is a basic requirement for morecomplex processing tasks such as reasoning anddiscourse analysis (for related work on ontology-based information extraction see e.g.
Maedche etal., 2002; Lopez and Motta, 2004; M?ller et al,2004; Nirenburg and Raskin, 2004).1 http://www.smartweb-projekt.de/start_en.html2 System OverviewThe SOBA system consists of a web crawler,linguistic annotation components and a compo-nent for the transformation of linguistic annota-tions into an ontology-based representation.The web crawler acts as a monitor on relevantweb domains (i.e.
the FIFA2 and UEFA3 websites), automatically downloads relevantdocuments from them and sends them to alinguistic annotation web service.Linguistic annotation and informationextraction is based on the Heart-of-Gold (HoG)architecture (Callmeier et al 2004), whichprovides a uniform and flexible infrastructure forbuilding multilingual applications that usesemantics- and XML-based natural languageprocessing components.The linguistically annotated documents arefurther processed by the transformationcomponent, which generates a knowledge baseof soccer-related entities (players, teams, etc.
)and events (matches, goals, etc.)
by mappingannotated entities or events to ontology classesand their properties.Finally, an automatic hyperlinking componentis used for the visualization of extracted entitiesand events.
This component is based on theVieWs system, which was developedindependently of SmartWeb (Buitelaar et al,2005).
In what follows we describe the differentcomponents of the system in detail.2.1 Web CrawlerThe crawler enables the automatic creation of afootball corpus, which is kept up-to-date on adaily basis.
The crawler data is compiled fromtexts, semi-structured data and copies of original2 http://fifaworldcup.yahoo.com/3 http://www.uefa.com/123HTML documents.
For each football match, thedata source contains a sheet of semi-structureddata with tables of players, goals, referees, etc.Textual data comprise of match reports as well asnews articles.The crawler is able to extract data from twodifferent sources: FIFA and UEFA.
Semi-structured data, news articles and match reportscovering the WorldCup2006 are identified andcollected from the FIFA website.
Match reportsand news articles are extracted from the UEFAwebsite.
The extracted data are labeled by IDsthat match the filename.
The IDs are derivedfrom the corresponding URL and are thusunique.The crawler is invoked continuously each daywith the same configuration, extracting only datawhich is not yet contained in the corpus.
In orderto distinguish between available new data anddata already present in the corpus, the URLs ofall available data from the website are matchedagainst the IDs of the already extracted data.2.2 Linguistic Annotation and InformationExtractionAs mentioned before, linguistic annotation in thesystem is based on the HoG architecture, whichprovides a uniform and flexible infrastructure forbuilding multilingual applications that usesemantics- and XML-based natural languageprocessing components.For the annotation of soccer game reports, weextended the rule set of the SProUT (Drozdzyn-ski et al 2004) named-entity recognition compo-nent in HoG with gazetteers, part-of-speech andmorphological information.
SProUT combinesfinite-state techniques and unification-based al-gorithms.
Structures to be extracted are orderedin a type hierarchy, which we extended with soc-cer-specific rules and output types.SProUT has basic grammars for the annotationof persons, locations, numerals and date and timeexpressions.
On top of this, we implementedrules for soccer-specific entities, such as actors insoccer (trainer, player, referee ?
), teams, gamesand tournaments.
Using these, we further imple-mented rules for soccer-specific events, such asplayer activities (shots, headers ?
), game events(goal, card ?)
and game results.
A soccer-specific gazetteer contains soccer-specific enti-ties and names and is supplemented to the gen-eral named-entity gazetteer.As an example, consider the linguistic annota-tion for the following German sentence from oneof the soccer game reports:Guido Buchwald wurde 1990 in Italien Welt-meister (Guido Buchwald became world cham-pion in 1990 in Italy)<FS type="player_action"><F name="GAME_EVENT"><FS type="world champion"/><F name="ACTION_TIME"><FS type="1990"/><F name="ACTION_LOCATION"><FS type="Italy"/><F name="AGENT"><FS type="player"><F name="SURNAME"><FS type="Buchwald"/><F name="GIVEN_NAME"><FS type="Guido"/>2.3 Knowledge Base GenerationThe SmartWeb SportEventOntology (a subset ofSWIntO) contains about 400 direct classes ontowhich named-entities and other, more complexstructures are mapped.
The mapping is repre-sented in a declarative fashion specifying howthe feature-based structures produced by SProUTare mapped into structures which are compatiblewith the underlying ontology.
Further, the newlyextracted information is also interpreted in thecontext of additional information about thematch in question.This additional information is obtained bywrapping the semi-structured data on relevantsoccer matches, which is also mapped to the on-tology.
The information obtained in this wayabout the match in question can then be used ascontextual background with respect to which thenewly extracted information is interpreted.The feature structure for player as displayedabove will be translated into the following F-Logic (Kifer et al 1995) statements, which arethen automatically translated to RDF and fed tothe visualization component:soba#player124:sportevent#FootballPlayer[sportevent#impersonatedBy ->soba#Guido_BUCHWALD].soba#Guido_BUCHWALD:dolce#"natural-person"[dolce#"HAS-DENOMINATION" ->soba#Guido_BUCHWALD_Denomination].soba#Guido_BUCHWALD_Denomination":dolce#"natural-person-denomination"[dolce#LASTNAME -> "Buchwald";dolce#FIRSTNAME -> "Guido"].1242.4 Knowledge Base VisualizationThe generated knowledge base is visualized byway of automatically inserted hyperlink menusfor soccer-related named-entities such as playersand teams.
The visualization component is basedon the VIeWs4 system.
VIeWs allows the user tosimply browse a web site as usual, but is addi-tionally supported by the automatic hyperlinkingsystem that adds additional information from a(generated) knowledge base.For some examples of this see the includedfigures below, which show extracted informationfor the Panama team (i.e.
all of the football play-ers in this team in Figure 1) and for the playerRoberto Brown (i.e.
his team and events in whichhe participated in Figure 2).3 ImplementationAll components are implemented in Java 1.5 andare installed as web applications on a Tomcatweb server.
SOAP web services are used forcommunication between components so that thesystem can be installed in a centralized as well asdecentralized manner.
Data communication ishandled by XML-based exchange formats.
Dueto a high degree of flexibility of components,only a simple configuration over environmentvariables is needed.4 Conclusions and Future WorkWe presented an ontology-based approach toinformation extraction in the soccer domain thataims at the automatic generation of a knowledgebase from match reports and the subsequentvisualization of the extracted informationthrough automatic hyperlinking.
We argue thatsuch an approach is innovative and enhances theuser experience.Future work includes the extraction of morecomplex events, for which deep linguistic analy-sis and/or semantic inference over the ontologyand knowledge base is required.
For this purposewe will use an HPSG-based parser that is avail-able within the HoG architecture (Callmeier,2000) and combine this with a semantic infer-ence approach based on discourse analysis(Cimiano et al, 2005).4 http://views.dfki.deAcknowledgementsThis research has been supported by grants forthe projects SmartWeb (by the German Ministryof Education and Research: 01 IMD01 A) andVIeWs (by the Saarland Ministry of EconomicAffairs).ReferencesPaul Buitelaar, Thomas Eigner, Stefania RacioppaSemantic Navigation with VIeWs In: Proc.
of theWorkshop on User Aspects of the Semantic Web atthe European Semantic Web Conference, Herak-lion, Greece, May 2005.Callmeier, Ulrich (2000).
PET ?
A platform for ex-perimentation with efficient HPSG processingtechniques.
In: Natural Language Engineering, 6(1) UK: Cambridge University Press pp.
99?108.Callmeier, Ulrich, Eisele, Andreas, Sch?fer, Ulrichand Melanie Siegel.
2004.
The DeepThought CoreArchitecture Framework In Proceedings of LREC04, Lisbon, Portugal, pages 1205-1208.Cimiano, Philipp, Saric, Jasmin and Uwe Reyle.2005.
Ontology-driven discourse analysis for in-formation extraction, Data Knowledge Engineering55(1).Drozdzynski, Witold, Hans-Ulrich Krieger, JakubPiskorski, Ulrich Sch?fer, and Feiyu Xu.
2004.Shallow processing with unification and typed fea-ture structures ?
foundations and applications.K?nstliche Intelligenz, 1:17-23.Kifer, M., Lausen, G. and J.Wu.
1995.
Logical Foun-dations of Object-Oriented and Frame-Based Lan-guages.
Journal of the ACM 42, pp.
741-843.Lopez, V. and E. Motta.
2004.
Ontology-driven Ques-tion Answering in AquaLog In Proceedings of 9thInternational Conference on applications of naturallanguage to information systems.Maedche, Alexander, G?nter Neumann and SteffenStaab.
2002.
Bootstrapping an Ontology-Based In-formation Extraction System.
In: Studies in Fuzzi-ness and Soft Computing, editor J. Kacprzyk.
Intel-ligent Exploration of the Web, Springer.M?ller HM, Kenny EE and PW Sternberg.
2004.Textpresso: An ontology-based information re-trieval and extraction system for biological litera-ture.
PLoS Biol 2: e309.Nirenburg, Sergei and Viktor Raskin.
2004.
Ontologi-cal Semantics.
MIT Press.Oberle et al The SmartWeb Integrated OntologySWIntO, in preparation.125Figure 2: Generated hyperlink on ?Roberto Brown?
with extracted information on histeam and events in which he participatedFigure 1: Generated hyperlink on ?Panama?
with extracted information on this team126
