Automatically Constructing a Lexicon ofVerb Phrase Idiomatic CombinationsAfsaneh FazlyDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of TorontoToronto, ON M5S 3H5Canadaafsaneh@cs.toronto.eduSuzanne StevensonDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of TorontoToronto, ON M5S 3H5Canadasuzanne@cs.toronto.eduAbstractWe investigate the lexical and syntacticflexibility of a class of idiomatic expres-sions.
We develop measures that drawon such linguistic properties, and demon-strate that these statistical, corpus-basedmeasures can be successfully used for dis-tinguishing idiomatic combinations fromnon-idiomatic ones.
We also proposea means for automatically determiningwhich syntactic forms a particular idiomcan appear in, and hence should be in-cluded in its lexical representation.1 IntroductionThe term idiom has been applied to a fuzzy cat-egory with prototypical examples such as by andlarge, kick the bucket, and let the cat out of thebag.
Providing a definitive answer for what idiomsare, and determining how they are learned and un-derstood, are still subject to debate (Glucksberg,1993; Nunberg et al, 1994).
Nonetheless, they areoften defined as phrases or sentences that involvesome degree of lexical, syntactic, and/or semanticidiosyncrasy.Idiomatic expressions, as a part of the vast fam-ily of figurative language, are widely used both incolloquial speech and in written language.
More-over, a phrase develops its idiomaticity over time(Cacciari, 1993); consequently, new idioms comeinto existence on a daily basis (Cowie et al, 1983;Seaton and Macaulay, 2002).
Idioms thus pose aserious challenge, both for the creation of wide-coverage computational lexicons, and for the de-velopment of large-scale, linguistically plausiblenatural language processing (NLP) systems (Saget al, 2002).One problem is due to the range of syntacticidiosyncrasy of idiomatic expressions.
Some id-ioms, such as by and large, contain syntactic vio-lations; these are often completely fixed and hencecan be listed in a lexicon as ?words with spaces?
(Sag et al, 2002).
However, among those idiomsthat are syntactically well-formed, some exhibitlimited morphosyntactic flexibility, while othersmay be more syntactically flexible.
For example,the idiom shoot the breeze undergoes verbal inflec-tion (shot the breeze), but not internal modificationor passivization (?shoot the fun breeze, ?the breezewas shot).
In contrast, the idiom spill the beansundergoes verbal inflection, internal modification,and even passivization.
Clearly, a words-with-spaces approach does not capture the full range ofbehaviour of such idiomatic expressions.Another barrier to the appropriate handling ofidioms in a computational system is their seman-tic idiosyncrasy.
This is a particular issue for thoseidioms that conform to the grammar rules of thelanguage.
Such idiomatic expressions are indistin-guishable on the surface from compositional (non-idiomatic) phrases, but a computational systemmust be capable of distinguishing the two.
For ex-ample, a machine translation system should trans-late the idiom shoot the breeze as a single unit ofmeaning (?to chat?
), whereas this is not the casefor the literal phrase shoot the bird.In this study, we focus on a particular class ofEnglish phrasal idioms, i.e., those that involve thecombination of a verb plus a noun in its direct ob-ject position.
Examples include shoot the breeze,pull strings, and push one?s luck.
We refer to theseas verb+noun idiomatic combinations (VNICs).The class of VNICs accommodates a large num-ber of idiomatic expressions (Cowie et al, 1983;Nunberg et al, 1994).
Moreover, their peculiar be-337haviour signifies the need for a distinct treatmentin a computational lexicon (Fellbaum, 2005).
De-spite this, VNICs have been granted relatively lit-tle attention within the computational linguisticscommunity.We look into two closely related problemsconfronting the appropriate treatment of VNICs:(i) the problem of determining their degree of flex-ibility; and (ii) the problem of determining theirlevel of idiomaticity.
Section 2 elaborates on thelexicosyntactic flexibility of VNICs, and how thisrelates to their idiomaticity.
In Section 3, we pro-pose two linguistically-motivated statistical mea-sures for quantifying the degree of lexical andsyntactic inflexibility (or fixedness) of verb+nouncombinations.
Section 4 presents an evaluationof the proposed measures.
In Section 5, we putforward a technique for determining the syntac-tic variations that a VNIC can undergo, and thatshould be included in its lexical representation.Section 6 summarizes our contributions.2 Flexibility and Idiomaticity of VNICsAlthough syntactically well-formed, VNICs in-volve a certain degree of semantic idiosyncrasy.Unlike compositional verb+noun combinations,the meaning of VNICs cannot be solely predictedfrom the meaning of their parts.
There is much ev-idence in the linguistic literature that the seman-tic idiosyncrasy of idiomatic combinations is re-flected in their lexical and/or syntactic behaviour.2.1 Lexical and Syntactic FlexibilityA limited number of idioms have one (or more)lexical variants, e.g., blow one?s own trumpet andtoot one?s own horn (examples from Cowie et al1983).
However, most are lexically fixed (non-productive) to a large extent.
Neither shoot thewind nor fling the breeze are typically recognizedas variations of the idiom shoot the breeze.
Simi-larly, spill the beans has an idiomatic meaning (?toreveal a secret?
), while spill the peas and spreadthe beans have only literal interpretations.Idiomatic combinations are also syntacticallypeculiar: most VNICs cannot undergo syntacticvariations and at the same time retain their id-iomatic interpretations.
It is important, however,to note that VNICs differ with respect to the degreeof syntactic flexibility they exhibit.
Some are syn-tactically inflexible for the most part, while othersare more versatile; as illustrated in 1 and 2:1.
(a) Tim and Joy shot the breeze.
(b) ??
Tim and Joy shot a breeze.
(c) ??
Tim and Joy shot the breezes.
(d) ??
Tim and Joy shot the fun breeze.
(e) ??
The breeze was shot by Tim and Joy.
(f) ??
The breeze that Tim and Joy kicked was fun.2.
(a) Tim spilled the beans.
(b) ?
Tim spilled some beans.
(c) ??
Tim spilled the bean.
(d) Tim spilled the official beans.
(e) The beans were spilled by Tim.
(f) The beans that Tim spilled troubled Joe.Linguists have explained the lexical and syntac-tic flexibility of idiomatic combinations in termsof their semantic analyzability (e.g., Glucksberg1993; Fellbaum 1993; Nunberg et al 1994).
Se-mantic analyzability is inversely related to id-iomaticity.
For example, the meaning of shoot thebreeze, a highly idiomatic expression, has nothingto do with either shoot or breeze.
In contrast, a lessidiomatic expression, such as spill the beans, canbe analyzed as spill corresponding to ?reveal?
andbeans referring to ?secret(s)?.
Generally, the con-stituents of a semantically analyzable idiom can bemapped onto their corresponding referents in theidiomatic interpretation.
Hence analyzable (lessidiomatic) expressions are often more open to lex-ical substitution and syntactic variation.2.2 Our ProposalWe use the observed connection between id-iomaticity and (in)flexibility to devise statisti-cal measures for automatically distinguishing id-iomatic from literal verb+noun combinations.While VNICs vary in their degree of flexibility(cf.
1 and 2 above; see also Moon 1998), on thewhole they contrast with compositional phrases,which are more lexically productive and appear ina wider range of syntactic forms.
We thus proposeto use the degree of lexical and syntactic flexibil-ity of a given verb+noun combination to determinethe level of idiomaticity of the expression.It is important to note that semantic analyzabil-ity is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condi-tion for an idiomatic combination to be lexicallyor syntactically flexible.
Other factors, such asthe communicative intentions and pragmatic con-straints, can motivate a speaker to use a variantin place of a canonical form (Glucksberg, 1993).Nevertheless, lexical and syntactic flexibility maywell be used as partial indicators of semantic ana-lyzability, and hence idiomaticity.3383 Automatic Recognition of VNICsHere we describe our measures for idiomaticity,which quantify the degree of lexical, syntactic, andoverall fixedness of a given verb+noun combina-tion, represented as a verb?noun pair.
(Note thatour measures quantify fixedness, not flexibility.
)3.1 Measuring Lexical FixednessAVNIC is lexically fixed if the replacement of anyof its constituents by a semantically (and syntac-tically) similar word generally does not result inanother VNIC, but in an invalid or a literal expres-sion.
One way of measuring lexical fixedness ofa given verb+noun combination is thus to exam-ine the idiomaticity of its variants, i.e., expressionsgenerated by replacing one of the constituents bya similar word.
This approach has two main chal-lenges: (i) it requires prior knowledge about theidiomaticity of expressions (which is what we aredeveloping our measure to determine); (ii) it needsinformation on ?similarity?
among words.Inspired by Lin (1999), we examine the strengthof association between the verb and noun con-stituents of the target combination and its variants,as an indirect cue to their idiomaticity.
We use theautomatically-built thesaurus of Lin (1998) to findsimilar words to the noun of the target expression,in order to automatically generate variants.
Onlythe noun constituent is varied, since replacing theverb constituent of a VNIC with a semantically re-lated verb is more likely to yield another VNIC, asin keep/lose one?s cool (Nunberg et al, 1994).Let 	ffflfiffibe the setof thefimost similar nouns to the nounof thetarget pair  "!$#&%.
We calculate the associationstrength for the target pair, and for each of its vari-ants,  '!$#%, using pointwise mutual informa-tion (PMI) (Church et al, 1991):(*),+!$#.-/01325476!$#-6!6-13254 89":;=<>!$#.-/<>!$#@?><A?B#-(1)where CEDFfiand$Gis the target noun;8isthe set of all transitive verbs in the corpus;:isthe set of all nouns appearing as the direct objectof some verb;<!H#-is the frequency of !
and-occurring as a verb?object pair; <> !$#@?
is thetotal frequency of the target verb with any noun in:;<?B#-is the total frequency of the noun-in the direct object position of any verb in 8 .Lin (1999) assumes that a target expression isnon-compositional if and only if its (I)J+ valueis significantly different from that of any of thevariants.
Instead, we propose a novel techniquethat brings together the association strengths ( (*),+values) of the target and the variant expressionsinto a single measure reflecting the degree of lex-ical fixedness for the target pair.
We assume thatthe target pair is lexically fixed to the extent thatits(*),+ deviates from the average (*),+ of its vari-ants.
Our measure calculates this deviation, nor-malized using the sample?s standard deviation:K>L3MONQPRNQSTSVUXWZY!$#[0(*),+!$#>\(*),+](2)(I)J+is the mean and ] the standard deviation ofthe sample;KL^M_NQPR`NQSTSTUXWaY!H#&bdc^\fe#hgeji.3.2 Measuring Syntactic FixednessCompared to compositional verb+noun combina-tions, VNICs are expected to appear in more re-stricted syntactic forms.
To quantify the syntac-tic fixedness of a target verb?noun pair, we thusneed to: (i) identify relevant syntactic patterns,i.e., those that help distinguish VNICs from lit-eral verb+noun combinations; (ii) translate the fre-quency distribution of the target pair in the identi-fied patterns into a measure of syntactic fixedness.3.2.1 Identifying Relevant PatternsDetermining a unique set of syntactic patternsappropriate for the recognition of all idiomaticcombinations is difficult indeed: exactly whichforms an idiomatic combination can occur in is notentirely predictable (Sag et al, 2002).
Nonethe-less, there are hypotheses about the difference inbehaviour of VNICs and literal verb+noun combi-nations with respect to particular syntactic varia-tions (Nunberg et al, 1994).
Linguists note thatsemantic analyzability is related to the referentialstatus of the noun constituent, which is in turn re-lated to participation in certain morphosyntacticforms.
In what follows, we describe three typesof variation that are tolerated by literal combina-tions, but are prohibited by many VNICs.Passivization There is much evidence in the lin-guistic literature that VNICs often do not undergopassivization.1 Linguists mainly attribute this tothe fact that only a referential noun can appear asthe surface subject of a passive construction.1There are idiomatic combinations that are used only in apassivized form; we do not consider such cases in our study.339Determiner Type A strong correlation existsbetween the flexibility of the determiner preced-ing the noun in a verb+noun combination and theoverall flexibility of the phrase (Fellbaum, 1993).It is however important to note that the nature ofthe determiner is also affected by other factors,such as the semantic properties of the noun.Pluralization While the verb constituent of aVNIC is morphologically flexible, the morpholog-ical flexibility of the noun relates to its referentialstatus.
A non-referential noun constituent is ex-pected to mainly appear in just one of the singularor plural forms.
The pluralization of the noun is ofcourse also affected by its semantic properties.Merging the three variation types results in apattern set,   , of  distinct syntactic patterns,given in Table 1.23.2.2 Devising a Statistical MeasureThe second step is to devise a statistical measurethat quantifies the degree of syntactic fixedness ofa verb?noun pair, with respect to the selected setof patterns,   .
We propose a measure that com-pares the ?syntactic behaviour?
of the target pairwith that of a ?typical?
verb?noun pair.
Syntac-tic behaviour of a typical pair is defined as theprior probability distribution over the patterns in  .
The prior probability of an individual patternb  is estimated as:6 	V0<!#.-#ffflfiffi!
#"<!#-#%$The syntactic behaviour of the target verb?nounpair  "!H#%is defined as the posterior probabil-ity distribution over the patterns, given the particu-lar pair.
The posterior probability of an individualpattern  is estimated as:6 	 &#('06!$##6!H#<>!$##ffflfiffi) #"<>!H##%$The degree of syntactic fixedness of the targetverb?noun pair is estimated as the divergence ofits syntactic behaviour (the posterior distribution2We collapse some patterns since with a larger pattern setthe measure may require larger corpora to perform reliably.Patternsv det:NULL n *,+ v det:NULL n -.v det:a/an n *,+v det:the n *,+ v det:the n -.v det:DEM n *,+ v det:DEM n -.v det:POSS n *,+ v det:POSS n -.v det:OTHER [ n*,+0/-. ]
det:ANY [ n*,+0/-. ]
be v -1*,*23Table 1: Patterns for syntactic fixedness measure.over the patterns), from the typical syntactic be-haviour (the prior distribution).
The divergence ofthe two probability distributions is calculated us-ing a standard information-theoretic measure, theKullback Leibler (KL-)divergence:KL^M_NQPR`NQS S54%67!$#[8,6!H#[36Vffflfiffi!
#"6%$!$#O13254 69%$!H#6%$(3)KL-divergence is always non-negative and is zeroif and only if the two distributions are exactly thesame.
Thus,KL^M_NQPR`NQSTS:4%67!H#[IbdcC_#hgeji.KL-divergence is argued to be problematic be-cause it is not a symmetric measure.
Nonethe-less, it has proven useful in many NLP applica-tions (Resnik, 1999; Dagan et al, 1994).
More-over, the asymmetry is not an issue here since weare concerned with the relative distance of severalposterior distributions from the same prior.3.3 A Hybrid Measure of FixednessVNICs are hypothesized to be, in most cases, bothlexically and syntactically more fixed than literalverb+noun combinations (see Section 2).
We thuspropose a new measure of idiomaticity to be ameasure of the overall fixedness of a given pair.We define K>L3MONQPRNQSTS<;=TW>?
UXU!H#as:K>L3MONQPRNQSTS5;=TW>?
UXU!$#[@KL^MONQPHR N`QSTS54A67!H#g\B@>KL^M_NQPR`NQS SVUXWZY!$#[ (4)where@weights the relative contribution of themeasures in predicting idiomaticity.4 Evaluation of the Fixedness MeasuresTo evaluate our proposed fixedness measures, wedetermine their appropriateness as indicators of id-iomaticity.
We pose a classification task in whichidiomatic verb?noun pairs are distinguished fromliteral ones.
We use each measure to assign scores340to the experimental pairs (see Section 4.2 below).We then classify the pairs by setting a threshold,here the median score, where all expressions withscores higher than the threshold are labeled as id-iomatic and the rest as literal.We assess the overall goodness of a measure bylooking at its accuracy (Acc) and the relative re-duction in error rate (RER) on the classificationtask described above.
The RER of a measure re-flects the improvement in its accuracy relative toanother measure (often a baseline).We consider two baselines: (i) a random base-line,  RP, that randomly assigns a label (literalor idiomatic) to each verb?noun pair; (ii) a moreinformed baseline, (*),+ , an information-theoreticmeasure widely used for extracting statisticallysignificant collocations.34.1 Corpus and Data ExtractionWe use the British National Corpus (BNC;?http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk/?)
to extract verb?noun pairs, along with information on the syn-tactic patterns they appear in.
We automaticallyparse the corpus using the Collins parser (Collins,1999), and further process it using TGrep2 (Ro-hde, 2004).
For each instance of a transitive verb,we use heuristics to extract the noun phrase (NP)in either the direct object position (if the sentenceis active), or the subject position (if the sentenceis passive).
We then use NP-head extraction soft-ware4 to get the head noun of the extracted NP,its number (singular or plural), and the determinerintroducing it.4.2 Experimental ExpressionsWe select our development and test expressionsfrom verb?noun pairs that involve a member of apredefined list of (transitive) ?basic?
verbs.
Ba-sic verbs, in their literal use, refer to states oracts that are central to human experience.
Theyare thus frequent, highly polysemous, and tend tocombine with other words to form idiomatic com-binations (Nunberg et al, 1994).
An initial list ofsuch verbs was selected from several linguistic andpsycholinguistic studies on basic vocabulary (e.g.,Pauwels 2000; Newman and Rice 2004).
We fur-ther augmented this initial list with verbs that aresemantically related to another verb already in the3As in Eqn.
(1), our calculation of PMI here restricts theverb?noun pair to the direct object relation.4We use a modified version of the software provided byEric Joanis based on heuristics from (Collins, 1999).list; e.g., lose is added in analogy with find.
Thefinal list of 28 verbs is:blow, bring, catch, cut, find, get, give, have, hear, hit, hold,keep, kick, lay, lose, make, move, place, pull, push, put, see,set, shoot, smell, take, throw, touchFrom the corpus, we extract all verb?noun pairswith minimum frequency of  C that contain a basicverb.
From these, we semi-randomly select an id-iomatic and a literal subset.5 A pair is consideredidiomatic if it appears in a credible idiom dictio-nary, such as the Oxford Dictionary of Current Id-iomatic English (ODCIE) (Cowie et al, 1983), orthe Collins COBUILD Idioms Dictionary (CCID)(Seaton and Macaulay, 2002).
Otherwise, the pairis considered literal.
We then randomly pull out C development and  C5C test pairs (half idiomaticand half literal), ensuring both low and high fre-quency items are included.
Sample idioms corre-sponding to the extracted pairs are: kick the habit,move mountains, lose face, and keep one?s word.4.3 Experimental SetupDevelopment expressions are used in devising thefixedness measures, as well as in determining thevalues of the parametersfiin Eqn.
(2) and @ inEqn.
(4).
fi determines the maximum number ofnouns similar to the target noun, to be consideredin measuring the lexical fixedness of a given pair.The value of this parameter is determined by per-forming experiments over the development data,in whichfiranges from  C to  C5C by steps of  C ;fiis set to  C based on the results.
We also exper-imented with different values of@ranging from Cto  by steps of   .
Based on the development re-sults, the best value for@is 	 (giving more weightto the syntactic fixedness measure).Test expressions are saved as unseen data for thefinal evaluation.
We further divide the set of alltest expressions, TEST?
UXU, into two sets correspond-ing to two frequency bands: TEST contains  Cidiomatic and  C literal pairs, each with total fre-quency between  C and BC (  C <` !$# 	 #?
BC ); TEST fffi consists of  C idiomatic and  Cliteral pairs, each with total frequency of BC orgreater (<` !$# 	 #[?
ffifl BC ).
All frequencycounts are over the entire BNC.4.4 ResultsWe first examine the performance of the in-dividual fixedness measures, KL^MONQPHR N`QSTShUXWZY and5In selecting literal pairs, we choose those that involve aphysical act corresponding to the basic semantics of the verb.341Data Set: TEST  %Acc %RER 50 -64 28 65 30fiffffifl  70 40Table 2: Accuracy and relative error reduction for the twofixedness and the two baseline measures over all test pairs.KL M^_NQPR N`QSTS54A67, as well as that of the two baselines, RHPand (I)J+ ; see Table 2.
(Results for the over-all measure are presented later in this section.)
Ascan be seen, the informed baseline, (*),+ , shows alarge improvement over the random baseline (   !error reduction).
This shows that one can get rel-atively good performance by treating verb+nounidiomatic combinations as collocations.KL^M_NQPR`NQSTSTUXWZYperforms as well as the informedbaseline ( " C !
error reduction).
This result showsthat, as hypothesized, lexical fixedness is a reason-ably good predictor of idiomaticity.
Nonetheless,the performance signifies a need for improvement.Possibly the most beneficial enhancement wouldbe a change in the way we acquire the similarnouns for a target noun.The best performance (shown in boldface) be-longs toKL M^_NQPR`NQSTS<4A67, with BC!error reductionover the random baseline, and  C!error reductionover the informed baseline.
These results demon-strate that syntactic fixedness is a good indicatorof idiomaticity, better than a simple measure ofcollocation ( (I)J+ ), or a measure of lexical fixed-ness.
These results further suggest that lookinginto deep linguistic properties of VNICs is bothnecessary and beneficial for the appropriate treat-ment of these expressions.
(I)J+is known to perform poorly on low fre-quency data.
To examine the effect of frequencyon the measures, we analyze their performance onthe two divisions of the test data, corresponding tothe two frequency bands, TEST and TEST fffi .Results are given in Table 3, with the best perfor-mance shown in boldface.As expected, the performance of (I)J+ dropssubstantially for low frequency items.
Inter-estingly, although it is a PMI-based measure,KL M^_NQPR N`QSTSVUXWaYperforms slightly better when thedata is separated based on frequency.
The perfor-mance ofKL^M_NQPR`NQSTS<4A67improves quite a bit whenit is applied to high frequency items, while it im-proves only slightly on the low frequency items.These results show that both Fixedness measuresData Set: TEST #%$ &(' TEST #%)fi* +,)%Acc %RER %Acc %RER-./ 50 - 50 -0	 56 12 70 401 68 36 66 321 ff2fl3 72 44 82 64Table 3: Accuracy and relative error reduction for all mea-sures over test pairs divided by frequency.Data Set: TEST  %Acc %RER4435 65 30443 ffffifl370 40443(6fi7 74 48Table 4: Performance of the hybrid measure over TEST     .perform better on homogeneous data, while retain-ing comparably good performance on heteroge-neous data.
These results reflect that our fixednessmeasures are not as sensitive to frequency as(*),+.Hence they can be used with a higher degree ofconfidence, especially when applied to data thatis heterogeneous with regard to frequency.
Thisis important because while some VNICs are verycommon, others have very low frequency.Table 4 presents the performance of the hy-brid measure, KL^MONQPHR N`QSTS:;=TW>?
UXU , repeating that ofKL^M_NQPR`NQSTSTUXWZYand KL^MONQPHR`NQSTS<4%67 for comparison.KL^M_NQPR`NQSTS<;=TW>?
UXUoutperforms both lexical and syn-tactic fixedness measures, with a substantial im-provement overKL^M_NQPR`NQSTS UXWZY, and a small, but no-table, improvement over KL^M_NQPR`NQSTS4%67 .
Each ofthe lexical and syntactic fixedness measures is agood indicator of idiomaticity on its own, withsyntactic fixedness being a better predictor.
Herewe demonstrate that combining them into a singlemeasure of fixedness, while giving more weight tothe better measure, results in a more effective pre-dictor of idiomaticity.5 Determining the Canonical FormsOur evaluation of the fixedness measures demon-strates their usefulness for the automatic recogni-tion of idiomatic verb?noun pairs.
To representsuch pairs in a lexicon, however, we must de-termine their canonical form(s)?Cforms hence-forth.
For example, the lexical representation ofshoot, breeze%should include shoot the breezeas a Cform.Since VNICs are syntactically fixed, they aremostly expected to have a single Cform.
Nonethe-less, there are idioms with two or more accept-342able forms.
For example, hold fire and hold one?sfire are both listed in CCID as variations of thesame idiom.
Our approach should thus be capa-ble of predicting all allowable forms for a givenidiomatic verb?noun pair.We expect a VNIC to occur in its Cform(s) morefrequently than it occurs in any other syntactic pat-terns.
To discover the Cform(s) for a given id-iomatic verb?noun pair, we thus examine its fre-quency of occurrence in each syntactic pattern in  .
Since it is possible for an idiom to have morethan one Cform, we cannot simply take the mostdominant pattern as the canonical one.
Instead, wecalculate a   -score for the target pair  f!H#%andeach pattern A$b  : $!H#<>!H##%$>\ <]in which<is the mean and ] the standard deviationover the sampleT<>!$##9A$[%$b   ffi.The statistic   $!$#[indicates how far and inwhich direction the frequency of occurrence of thepair  !$#%in pattern deviates from the sam-ple?s mean, expressed in units of the sample?s stan-dard deviation.
To decide whether $ is a canon-ical pattern for the target pair, we check whether $!$#[, where	is a threshold.
For eval-uation, we set	to  , based on the distribution ofand through examining the development data.We evaluate the appropriateness of this ap-proach in determining the Cform(s) of idiomaticpairs by verifying its predicted forms against OD-CIE and CCID.
Specifically, for each of the  C5Cidiomatic pairs in TEST ?
UXU , we calculate the pre-cision and recall of its predicted Cforms (thosewhose   -scores are above ), compared to theCforms listed in the two dictionaries.
The averageprecision across the 100 test pairs is 81.7%, andthe average recall is 88.0% (with 69 of the pairshaving 100% precision and 100% recall).
More-over, we find that for the overwhelming majorityof the pairs,  !, the predicted Cform with thehighest   -score appears in the dictionary entry ofthe pair.
Thus, our method of detecting Cformsperforms quite well.6 Discussion and ConclusionsThe significance of the role idioms play in lan-guage has long been recognized.
However, due totheir peculiar behaviour, idioms have been mostlyoverlooked by the NLP community.
Recently,there has been growing awareness of the impor-tance of identifying non-compositional multiwordexpressions (MWEs).
Nonetheless, most researchon the topic has focused on compound nouns andverb particle constructions.
Earlier work on id-ioms have only touched the surface of the problem,failing to propose explicit mechanisms for appro-priately handling them.
Here, we provide effectivemechanisms for the treatment of a broadly doc-umented and crosslinguistically frequent class ofidioms, i.e., VNICs.Earlier research on the lexical encoding of id-ioms mainly relied on the existence of human an-notations, especially for detecting which syntacticvariations (e.g., passivization) an idiom can un-dergo (Villavicencio et al, 2004).
We proposetechniques for the automatic acquisition and en-coding of knowledge about the lexicosyntactic be-haviour of idiomatic combinations.
We put for-ward a means for automatically discovering the setof syntactic variations that are tolerated by a VNICand that should be included in its lexical represen-tation.
Moreover, we incorporate such informationinto statistical measures that effectively predict theidiomaticity level of a given expression.
In this re-gard, our work relates to previous studies on deter-mining the compositionality (inverse of idiomatic-ity) of MWEs other than idioms.Most previous work on compositionality ofMWEs either treat them as collocations (Smadja,1993), or examine the distributional similarity be-tween the expression and its constituents (Mc-Carthy et al, 2003; Baldwin et al, 2003; Ban-nard et al, 2003).
Lin (1999) and Wermterand Hahn (2005) go one step further and lookinto a linguistic property of non-compositionalcompounds?their lexical fixedness?to identifythem.
Venkatapathy and Joshi (2005) combine as-pects of the above-mentioned work, by incorporat-ing lexical fixedness, collocation-based, and distri-butional similarity measures into a set of featureswhich are used to rank verb+noun combinationsaccording to their compositionality.Our work differs from such studies in that itcarefully examines several linguistic properties ofVNICs that distinguish them from literal (com-positional) combinations.
Moreover, we suggestnovel techniques for translating such character-istics into measures that predict the idiomaticitylevel of verb+noun combinations.
More specifi-cally, we propose statistical measures that quan-tify the degree of lexical, syntactic, and overallfixedness of such combinations.
We demonstrate343that these measures can be successfully applied tothe task of automatically distinguishing idiomaticcombinations from non-idiomatic ones.
We alsoshow that our syntactic and overall fixedness mea-sures substantially outperform a widely used mea-sure of collocation,(*),+, even when the lattertakes syntactic relations into account.Others have also drawn on the notion of syntac-tic fixedness for idiom detection, though specificto a highly constrained type of idiom (Widdowsand Dorow, 2005).
Our syntactic fixedness mea-sure looks into a broader set of patterns associatedwith a large class of idiomatic expressions.
More-over, our approach is general and can be easily ex-tended to other idiomatic combinations.Each measure we use to identify VNICs cap-tures a different aspect of idiomaticity: (I)J+ re-flects the statistical idiosyncrasy of VNICs, whilethe fixedness measures draw on their lexicosyn-tactic peculiarities.
Our ongoing work focuses oncombining these measures to distinguish VNICsfrom other idiosyncratic verb+noun combinationsthat are neither purely idiomatic nor completelyliteral, so that we can identify linguistically plau-sible classes of verb+noun combinations on thiscontinuum (Fazly and Stevenson, 2005).ReferencesTimothy Baldwin, Colin Bannard, Takaaki Tanaka, andDominic Widdows.
2003.
An empirical model ofmultiword expression decomposability.
In Proc.
ofthe ACL-SIGLEX Workshop on Multiword Expres-sions, 89?96.Colin Bannard, Timothy Baldwin, and Alex Las-carides.
2003.
A statistical approach to the seman-tics of verb-particles.
In Proc.
of the ACL-SIGLEXWorkshop on Multiword Expressions, 65?72.Cristina Cacciari and Patrizia Tabossi, editors.
1993.Idioms: Processing, Structure, and Interpretation.Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Publishers.Cristina Cacciari.
1993.
The place of idioms in a lit-eral and metaphorical world.
In Cacciari and Ta-bossi (Cacciari and Tabossi, 1993), 27?53.Kenneth Church, William Gale, Patrick Hanks, andDonald Hindle.
1991.
Using statistics in lexicalanalysis.
In Uri Zernik, editor, Lexical Acquisition:Exploiting On-Line Resources to Build a Lexicon,115?164.
Lawrence Erlbaum.Michael Collins.
1999.
Head-Driven Statistical Mod-els for Natural Language Parsing.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Pennsylvania.Anthony P. Cowie, Ronald Mackin, and Isabel R. Mc-Caig.
1983.
Oxford Dictionary of Current IdiomaticEnglish, volume 2.
Oxford University Press.Ido Dagan, Fernando Pereira, and Lillian Lee.
1994.Similarity-based estimation of word cooccurrenceprobabilities.
In Proc.
of ACL?94, 272?278.Afsaneh Fazly and Suzanne Stevenson.
2005.
Au-tomatic acquisition of knowledge about multiwordpredicates.
In Proc.
of PACLIC?05.Christiane Fellbaum.
1993.
The determiner in Englishidioms.
In Cacciari and Tabossi (Cacciari and Ta-bossi, 1993), 271?295.Christiane Fellbaum.
2005.
The ontological lonelinessof verb phrase idioms.
In Andrea Schalley and Di-etmar Zaefferer, editors, Ontolinguistics.
Mouton deGruyter.
Forthcomming.Sam Glucksberg.
1993.
Idiom meanings and allu-sional content.
In Cacciari and Tabossi (Cacciariand Tabossi, 1993), 3?26.Dekang Lin.
1998.
Automatic retrieval and clusteringof similar words.
In Proc.
of COLING-ACL?98.Dekang Lin.
1999.
Automatic identification of non-compositional phrases.
In Proc.
of ACL?99, 317?24.Diana McCarthy, Bill Keller, and John Carroll.2003.
Detecting a continuum of compositionality inphrasal verbs.
In Proc.
of the ACL-SIGLEX Work-shop on Multiword Expressions.Rosamund Moon.
1998.
Fixed Expressions and Id-ioms in English: A Corpus-Based Approach.
Ox-ford University Press.John Newman and Sally Rice.
2004.
Patterns of usagefor English SIT, STAND, and LIE: A cognitively in-spired exploration in corpus linguistics.
CognitiveLinguistics, 15(3):351?396.Geoffrey Nunberg, Ivan Sag, and Thomas Wasow.1994.
Idioms.
Language, 70(3):491?538.Paul Pauwels.
2000.
Put, Set, Lay and Place: A Cog-nitive Linguistic Approach to Verbal Meaning.
LIN-COM EUROPA.Philip Resnik.
1999.
Semantic similarity in a taxon-omy: An information-based measure and its appli-cation to problems of ambiguity in natural language.JAIR, (11):95?130.Douglas L. T. Rohde.
2004.
TGrep2 User Manual.Ivan Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, Ann Copes-take, and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
Multiword expres-sions: A pain in the neck for NLP.
In Proc.
of CI-CLING?02, 1?15.Maggie Seaton and Alison Macaulay, editors.
2002.Collins COBUILD Idioms Dictionary.
Harper-Collins Publishers, 2nd edition.Frank Smadja.
1993.
Retrieving collocations fromtext: Xtract.
CL, 19(1):143?177.Sriram Venkatapathy and Aravid Joshi.
2005.
Mea-suring the relative compositionality of verb-noun (V-N) collocations by integrating features.
In Proc.
ofHLT-EMNLP?05, 899?906.Aline Villavicencio, Ann Copestake, Benjamin Wal-dron, and Fabre Lambeau.
2004.
Lexical encod-ing of MWEs.
In Proc.
of the ACL?04 Workshop onMultiword Expressions, 80?87.Joachim Wermter and Udo Hahn.
2005.
Paradigmaticmodifiability statistics for the extraction of com-plex multi-word terms.
In Proc.
of HLT-EMNLP?05,843?850.DominicWiddows and Beate Dorow.
2005.
Automaticextraction of idioms using graph analysis and asym-metric lexicosyntactic patterns.
In Proc.
of ACL?05Workshop on Deep Lexical Acquisition, 48?56.344
