Generating Spatio-Temporal Descriptions in Pollen ForecastsRoss Turner, Somayajulu Sripada and Ehud ReiterDept of Computing Science,University of Aberdeen, UK{rturner,ssripada,ereiter}@csd.abdn.ac.ukIan P DavyAerospace and Marine International,Banchory, Aberdeenshire, UKidavy@weather3000.comAbstractWe describe our initial investigations intogenerating textual summaries of spatio-temporal data with the help of a prototypeNatural Language Generation (NLG) systemthat produces pollen forecasts for Scotland.1 IntroductionNew monitoring devices such as remote sensing sys-tems are generating vast amounts of spatio-temporaldata.
These devices, coupled with the wider accessi-bility of the data, have spurred large amounts of re-search into how it can best be analysed.
There has beenless research however, into how the results of the dataanalysis can be effectively communicated.
As part ofa wider research project aiming to produce textual re-ports of complex spatio-temporal data, we have devel-oped a prototype NLG system which produces textualpollen forecasts for the general public.Pollen forecast texts describe predicted pollen con-centration values for different regions of a country.Their production involves two subtasks; predictingpollen concentration values for different regions of acountry, and describing these numerical values textu-ally.In our work, we focus on the later subtask, tex-tual description of spatio-temporally distributed pollenconcentration values.
The subtask of predicting pollenconcentrations is carried out by our industrial collab-orator, Aerospace and Marine International (UK) Ltd(AMI).A fairly substantial amount of work already existson weather forecast generation.
A number of systemshave been developed and are currently in commercialuse with two of the most notable being FOG (Goldberget al, 1994) and MultiMeteo (Coch, 1998).2 Knowledge AcquisitionOur knowledge acquisition activities consisted of cor-pus studies and discussions with experts.
We havecollected a parallel corpus (69 data-text pairs) ofpollen concentration data and their corresponding hu-man written pollen reports which our industrial collab-orator has provided for a local commercial televisionstation.
The forecasts were written by two expert mete-orologists, one of whom provided insight into how theforecasts were written.
An example of a pollen fore-cast text is shown in Figure 1, its corresponding data isshown in table 1.
A pollen forecast in the map form isshown in Figure 2.?Monday looks set to bring another day ofrelatively high pollen counts, with values upto a very high eight in the Central Belt.
Fur-ther North, levels will be a little better at amoderate to high five to six.
However, evenat these lower levels it will probably be un-comfortable for Hay fever sufferers.
?Figure 1: Human written pollen forecast text for thepollen data shown in table 1Figure 2: Pollen forecast map for the pollen data shownin table 1Analysis of a parallel corpus (texts and their under-lying data) can be performed in two stages:?
In the first stage, traditional corpus analysis pro-cedure outlined in (Reiter and Dale, 2000) and(Geldof, 2003) can be used to analyse the pollenforecast texts (the textual component of the paral-lel corpus).
This stage will identify the differentmessage types and uncover the sub language ofthe pollen forecasts.?
In the second stage the more recent analysis meth-ods developed in the SumTime project (Reiter et163ValidDate AreaID Value27/06/2005 1 (North) 627/06/2005 2 (North West) 527/06/2005 3 (Central) 527/06/2005 4 (North East) 627/06/2005 5 (South West) 827/06/2005 6 (South East) 8Table 1: Pollen Concentration Data for Scotland - Inputdata for Figures 1 and 2al., 2003) which exploit the availability of the un-derlying pollen data corresponding to the forecasttexts can be used to map messages to input dataand also map parts of the sub language such aswords to the input data.
Due to the fact that weare modeling the task of automatically producingpollen forecast texts from predicted pollen con-centration values, knowledge of how to map in-put data to messages and words/phrases is abso-lutely necessary.
Studies connecting language todata are useful for understanding the semantics oflanguage in a more novel way than the traditionallogic-based formalisms (Roy and Reiter, 2005).We have performed the first stage of the corpus anal-ysis and part of the second stage so far.
In the firststage, we abstracted out the different message typesfrom the forecast texts (Reiter and Dale, 2000).
Theseare shown in Table 2.
The main two message typesare forecast messages and trend messages.
The for-mer communicate the actual pollen forecast data (thecommunicative goal) and the latter describe patterns inpollen levels over time as shown in Figure 3?Grass pollen counts continue to ease fromthe recent high levels?Figure 3: A trend message describing a fall in pollenlevelsTable 2 also shows three other identified messagetypes.
We have ignored both the forecast explanationand general message types in our system developmentbecause they cannot be generated from pollen dataalone.
For example, the explanation type messages ex-plain the weather conditions responsible for the pollenpredictions.
Hayfever messages in our system are rep-resented as canned text.
Examples of a forecast ex-planation message and hayfever message are shown inFigure 4 and Figure 5 respectively.From our corpus analysis we have also been able tolearn the text structure for pollen forecasts.
The fore-casts normally start with a trend message and then in-clude a number of forecast messages.
Where hayfevermessages are present, they normally occur at the end ofthe forecast.Due to the fact that the input to our pollen text gen-?Windier and wetter weather over last 24hours has dampened down the grass pollencount?Figure 4: An example forecast explanation message?Even though values are mostly low, thosesensitive to pollen may still be affected?Figure 5: An example hayfever messageerator is the pollen data in numerical form, as part ofthe second stage of the corpus analysis we need to mapthe input data to the messages.
In earlier ?numbersto text?
NLG systems such as SumTime (Sripada etal., 2003) and TREND (Boyd, 1998), well known dataanalysis techniques such as segmentation and waveletanalysis were employed for this task.
Since pollen datais spatio-temporal we need to employ spatio-temporaldata analysis techniques to achieve this mapping.
Wedescribe our method in the next section.Our corpus analysis revealed that forecast texts con-tain a rich variety of spatial descriptions for a location.For example, the same region could be referred to byit?s proper name e.g.
?Suthlerland and Caithness?
orby its?
relation to a well known geographical landmarke.g.
?North of the Great Glen?
or simply by its?
geo-graphical location on the map e.g.
?the far North andNorthwest?.
In the context of pollen forecasts whichdescribe spatio-temporal data, studying the semanticsof phrases or words used for describing locations or re-gions is a challenge.
We are currently analysing theforecast texts along with the underlying data to under-stand how spatial descriptions map to the underlyingdata using the methods applied in the SumTime project(Sripada et al, 2003).As part of this analysis, in a seperate study, we askedtwenty four further education students in the Glasgowarea of Scotland a Geography question.
The questionasked how many out of four major place names in Scot-land did they consider to be in the south west of thecountry.
The answers we got back were very mixedwith a sizeable number of respondents deciding thatthe only place we considered definitely not to be in thesouth west of Scotland was in fact there.3 Spatio-temporal Data AnalysisWe have followed the pipeline architecture for text gen-eration outlined in (Reiter and Dale, 2000).
The mi-croplanning and surface realisation modules from theSumtime project (Sripada et al, 2003) have largelybeen reused.
We have developed new data analysisand document planning modules for the system and de-scribe the data analysis module in the rest of this sec-tion.
The data analysis module performs segmentationand trend detection on the data before providing the re-sults as input to the Natural Language Generation Sys-164Message Type Data Dependency Corpus CoverageForecast Pollen data for day of forecast 100%Trend Past/Future pollen forecasts 54%Forecast Explanation Weather forecast for day of forecast 35%Hayfever Pollen levels affect hay fever 23%General General Domain Knowledge 17%Table 2: Message Categorisation of the Pollen Corpustem.
An example of the input data to our system isshown in Table 1.
Our data analysis is based on threesteps:-1. segmentation of the geographic regions by theirnon-spatial attributes (pollen values)2. further segmentation of the segmented geographicregions by their spatial attributes (geographicproximity)3. detection of trends in the generalised pollen levelfor the whole region over time3.1 SegmentationThe task of segmentation consists of two major sub-tasks, clustering and classification (Miller and Han,2001).
Spatial clustering involves grouping objects intosimilar subclasses, whereas spatial classification in-volves finding a description for those subclasses whichdifferentiates the clustered objects from each other (Es-ter et al, 1998).Pollen values are measured on a scale of 1 to 10(lowto very high).
We defined 4 initial categories for seg-mentation, these are:-1.
VeryHigh - {8,9,10}2.
High - {6,7}3.
Moderate - {4,5}4.
Low - {1,2,3}These categories proved rather rigid for our pur-poses.
This was due to the fact that human forecasterstake a flexible approach to classifying pollen values.For example, in the corpus the pollen value of 4 couldbe referred to as both a moderate level of pollen and alow-to-moderate level of pollen.
This lead us to define3 further categories which are derived from our 4 initialcategories:-5.
LowModerate - {3,4}6.
ModerateHigh - {5,6}7.
HighVeryhigh - {7,8}Thus, the initial segmentation of data carried out byour system is a two stage process.
Firstly regions areclustered into the initial four categories by pollen value.The second stage involves merging adjacent categoriesthat only contain regions with adjacent values.
For ex-ample if we take the input data from Table 1, after thefirst stage we have the sets:-?
{{AreaID=2,Value=5},{AreaID=3,Value=5}}?
{{AreaID=1,Value=6},{AreaID=4,Value=6}}?
{{AreaID=5,Value=8},{AreaID=6,Value=8}}In stage two we create the union of the moderate andhigh sets to give:-?
{{AreaID=1,Value=6},{AreaID=2,Value=5},{AreaID=3,Value=5},{AreaID=4,Value=6}}?
{{AreaID=5,Value=8},{AreaID=6,Value=8}}Although this initial segmentation could be accom-plished all in one step, completing it in two steps pro-vided a more simple software engineering solution.We can now carry out further segmentation of thesesets according to their spatial attributes.
In our set ofregions with ModerateHigh pollen levels we can seethat AreaIDs 1,2,3,4 are in fact all spatial neighbours.The north, north east and north west regions can bedescribed spatially as the northern part of the country.Therefore we can now say that ?Pollen levels are at amoderate to high 5 or 6 in the northern and centralparts of the country?
.
Similarly, as the two members ofour set containing regions with VeryHigh pollen levelsare also spatial neighbours we can also say that ?Pollenlevels are at a very high level 8 in the south of the coun-try?.
This process now yields the following two sets:-?
{{AreaID=1234,Value=[5,6]}}?
{{AreaID=56,Value=[8]}}Our two sets we have now created can now be passedto the Document Planner were they will be encapsu-lated as individual Forecast messages.3.2 Trend DetectionTrend detection in our system works by generalisingover all sets created by segmentation.
From our twosets we can say that generally pollen levels are highover the whole of Scotland.
Looking at the previousdays forecast we can detect a trend by comparing thetwo generalisations.
If the previous days forecast wasalso high we can say ?pollen levels remain at the high165levels of yesterday?.
By looking further back, and ifthose previous days were also high, we can say ?pollenlevels remain at the high levels of recent days?.
If theprevious days forecast was low, we can say ?pollen lev-els have increased from yesterdays low levels?.
Ourdata analysis module then conveys the information thatthere is a relation between the general pollen levelof today and the general pollen level of some recenttimescale to the Document Planner, which then encap-sulates the information as a Trend message.After the results of data analysis have been input intothe NLG pipeline the output in Figure 6 is produced.
?Grass pollen levels for Monday remain atthe moderate to high levels of recent dayswith values of around 5 to 6 across most partsof the country.
However, in southern areas,pollen levels will be very high with values of8.
?Figure 6: The output text from our system for the inputdata in Table 14 EvaluationA demo of the pollen forecasting system can be foundon the internet at 1.
The evaluation of the system is be-ing carried out in two stages.
The first stage has usedthis demo to obtain feedback from expert meteorolo-gists at AMI.
We found the feedback on the system tobe very positive and hope to deploy the system for thenext pollen season.
Two main areas identified for im-provement of the generated texts:-?
Use of a more varied amount of referring expres-sions for geographic locations.?
An ability to vary the length of the text dependenton the context it was being used, i.e in a newspa-per or being read aloud.These issues will be dealt with subsequent releasesof the software.
The second and more thorough evalu-ation will be carried out when the system is deployed.5 Further ResearchThe current work on pollen forecasts is carried out aspart of RoadSafe2 a collaborative research project be-tween University of Aberdeen and Aerospace and Ma-rine International (UK) Ltd.
The main objective ofthe project is to automatically generate road mainte-nance instructions to ensure efficient and correct ap-plication of salt and grit to the roads during the win-ter.
The core requirement of this project is to describespatio-temporal data of detailed weather and road sur-face temperature predictions textually.
In a previous1www.csd.abdn.ac.uk/?rturner/cgi bin/pollen.html2www.csd.abdn.ac.uk/?rturner/RoadSafe/research project SumTime (Sripada et al, 2003) wehave developed techniques for producing textual sum-maries of time series data.
In RoadSafe we plan to ex-tend these techniques to generate textual descriptionsof spatio-temporal data.
Because the spatio-temporalweather prediction data used in road maintenance ap-plications is normally of the order of a megabyte, weinitially studied pollen forecasts which are based onsmaller spatio-temporal data sets.
We will apply thevarious techniques we have learnt from the study ofpollen forecasts to the spatio-temporal data from theroad maintenance application.6 SummaryAutomatically generating spatio-temporal descriptionsinvolves two main subtasks.
The first subtask focuseson the spatio-temporal analysis of the input data toextract information required by the different messagetypes identified in the corpus analysis.
The second sub-task is to find appropriate linguistic form for the spatiallocation or region information.ReferencesS.
Boyd.
1998.
Trend: a system for generating in-telligent descriptions of time-series data.
In IEEEInternational Conference on Intelligent ProcessingSystems (ICIPS1998).J.
Coch.
1998.
Multimeteo: multilingual productionof weather forecasts.
ELRA Newsletter, 3(2).M.
Ester, A. Frommelt, H. Kriegel, and J. Sander.1998.
Algorithms for characterization and trend de-tection in spatial databases.
In KDD, pages 44?50.S.
Geldof.
2003.
Corpus analysis for nlg.
cite-seer.ist.psu.edu/583403.html.E.
Goldberg, N. Driedger, and R. Kittredge.
1994.
Us-ing natural-language processing to produce weatherforecasts.
IEEE Expert, 9(2):45?53.H.
J. Miller and J. Han.
2001.
Geographic Data Min-ing and Knowledge Discovery.
Taylor and Francis.E.
Reiter and R. Dale.
2000.
Building Natural Lan-guage Generation Systems.
Cambridge UniversityPress.E.
Reiter, S. Sripada, and R. Robertson.
2003.
Ac-quiring correct knowledge for natural language gen-eration.
Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research,18:491?516.D.
Roy and E. Reiter.
2005.
Connecting language tothe world.
Artificial Intelligence, 167:1?12.S.
Sripada, E. Reiter, and I. Davy.
2003.
Sumtime-mousam: Configurable marine weather forecast gen-erator.
Expert Update, 6:4?10.166
