ASSIST: Automated semantic assistance for translatorsSerge Sharoff, Bogdan BabychCentre for Translation StudiesUniversity of Leeds, LS2 9JT UK{s.sharoff,b.babych}@leeds.ac.ukPaul Rayson, Olga Mudraya, Scott PiaoUCREL, Computing DepartmentLancaster University, LA1 4WA, UK{p.rayson,o.moudraia,s.piao}@lancs.ac.ukAbstractThe problem we address in this paper isthat of providing contextual examples oftranslation equivalents for words from thegeneral lexicon using comparable corporaand semantic annotation that is uniformfor the source and target languages.
Fora sentence, phrase or a query expression inthe source language the tool detects the se-mantic type of the situation in question andgives examples of similar contexts fromthe target language corpus.1 IntroductionIt is widely acknowledged that human transla-tors can benefit from a wide range of applicationsin computational linguistics, including MachineTranslation (Carl and Way, 2003), TranslationMemory (Planas and Furuse, 2000), etc.
Therehave been recent research on tools detecting trans-lation equivalents for technical vocabulary in a re-stricted domain, e.g.
(Dagan and Church, 1997;Bennison and Bowker, 2000).
The methodologyin this case is based on extraction of terminology(both single and multiword units) and alignmentof extracted terms using linguistic and/or statisti-cal techniques (D?jean et al, 2002).In this project we concentrate on words from thegeneral lexicon instead of terminology.
The ratio-nale for this focus is related to the fact that trans-lation of terms is (should be) stable, while gen-eral words can vary significantly in their transla-tion.
It is important to populate the terminologi-cal database with terms that are missed in dictio-naries or specific to a problem domain.
However,once the translation of a term in a domain has beenidentified, stored in a dictionary and learned bythe translator, the process of translation can go onwithout consulting a dictionary or a corpus.In contrast, words from the general lexicon ex-hibit polysemy, which is reflected differently inthe target language, thus causing the dependencyof their translation on corresponding context.
Italso happens quite frequently that such variationis not captured by dictionaries.
Novice translatorstend to rely on dictionaries and use direct trans-lation equivalents whenever they are available.
Inthe end they produce translations that look awk-ward and do not deliver the meaning intended bythe original text.Parallel corpora consisting of original textsaligned with their translations offer the possibilityto search for examples of translations in their con-text.
In this respect they provide a useful supple-ment to decontextualised translation equivalentslisted in dictionaries.
However, parallel corporaare not representative: millions of pages of orig-inal texts are produced daily by native speakersin major languages, such as English, while trans-lations are produced by a small community oftrained translators from a small subset of sourcetexts.
The imbalance between original texts andtranslations is also reflected in the size of parallelcorpora, which are simply too small for variationsin translation of moderately frequent words.
Forinstance, frustrate occurs 631 times in 100 millionwords of the BNC, i.e.
this gives in average about6 uses in a typical parallel corpus of one millionwords.2 System design2.1 The research hypothesisOur research hypothesis is that translators can beassisted by software which suggests contextual ex-139amples in the target language that are semanticallyand syntactically related to a selected example inthe source language.
To enable greater coveragewe will exploit comparable rather than parallelcorpora.Our research hypothesis leads us to a number ofresearch questions:?
Which semantic and syntactic contextual fea-tures of the selected example in the sourcelanguage are important??
How do we find similar contextual examplesin the target language??
How do we sort the suggested target lan-guage contextual examples in order to max-imise their usefulness?In order to restrict the research to what isachievable within the scope of this project, we arefocussing on translation from English to Russianusing a comparable corpus of British and Rus-sian newspaper texts.
Newspapers cover a largeset of clearly identifiable topics that are compara-ble across languages and cultures.
In this project,we have collected a 200-million-word corpus offour major British newspapers and a 70-million-word corpus of three major Russian newspapersfor roughly the same time span (2003-2004).1In our proposed method, contexts of uses of En-glish expressions defined by keywords are com-pared to similar Russian expressions, using se-mantic classes such as persons, places and insti-tutions.
For instance, the word agreement in theexample the parties were frustratingly close toan agreement = ???????
????
??
????????
???????
??????????
??????????
belongs to a seman-tic class that also includes arrangement, contract,deal, treaty.
In the result, the search for collo-cates of ???????
(close) in the context of agree-ment words in Russian gives a short list of mod-ifiers, which also includes the target: ??
?????????????
?.2.2 Semantic taggersIn this project, we are porting the Lancaster En-glish Semantic Tagger (EST) to the Russian lan-guage.
We have reused the existing semantic fieldtaxonomy of the Lancaster UCREL semantic anal-ysis system (USAS), and applied it to Russian.
We1Russian newspapers are significantly shorter than theirBritish counterparts.have also reused the existing software frameworkdeveloped during the construction of a Finnish Se-mantic Tagger (L?fberg et al, 2005); the main ad-justments and modifications required for Finnishwere to cope with the Unicode character set (UTF-8) and word compounding.USAS-EST is a software system for automaticsemantic analysis of text that was designed atLancaster University (Rayson et al, 2004).
Thesemantic tagset used by USAS was originallyloosely based on Tom McArthur?s Longman Lexi-con of Contemporary English (McArthur, 1981).It has a multi-tier structure with 21 major dis-course fields, subdivided into 232 sub-categories.2In the ASSIST project, we have been working onboth improving the existing EST and developing aparallel tool for Russian - Russian Semantic Tag-ger (RST).
We have found that the USAS semanticcategories were compatible with the semantic cat-egorizations of objects and phenomena in Russian,as in the following example:3poor JJ I1.1- A5.1- N5- E4.1- X9.1-??????
A I1.1- A6.3- N5- O4.2- E4.1-However, we needed a tool for analysing thecomplex morpho-syntactic structure of Russianwords.
Unlike English, Russian is a highly in-flected language: generally, what is expressed inEnglish through phrases or syntactic structuresis expressed in Russian via morphological in-flections, especially case endings and affixation.For this purpose, we adopted a Russian morpho-syntactic analyser Mystem that identifies wordforms, lemmas and morphological characteristicsfor each word.
Mystem is used as the equivalentof the CLAWS part-of-speech (POS) tagger in theUSAS framework.
Furthermore, we adopted theUnicode UTF-8 encoding scheme to cope with theCyrillic alphabet.
Despite these modifications, thearchitecture of the RST software mirrors that ofthe EST components in general.The main lexical resources of the RST includea single-word lexicon and a lexicon of multi-wordexpressions (MWEs).
We are building the Russianlexical resources by exploiting both dictionariesand corpora.
We use readily available resources,e.g.
lists of proper names, which are then se-2For the full tagset, see http://www.comp.lancs.ac.uk/ucrel/usas/3I1.1- = Money: lack; A5.1- = Evaluation: bad; N5- =Quantities: little; E4.1- = Unhappy; X9.1- = Ability, intel-ligence: poor; A6.3- = Comparing: little variety; O4.2- =Judgement of appearance: bad140mantically classified.
To bootstrap the system, wehave hand-tagged the 3,000 most frequent Russianwords based on a large newspaper corpus.
Subse-quently, the lexicons will be further expanded byfeeding texts from various sources into the RSTand classifying words that remain unmatched.
Inaddition, we will experiment with semi-automaticlexicon construction using an existing machine-readable English-Russian bilingual dictionary topopulate the Russian lexicon by mapping wordsfrom each of the semantic fields in the English lex-icon in turn.
We aim at coverage of around 30,000single lexical items and up to 9,000 MWEs, com-pared to the EST which currently contains 54,727single lexical items and 18,814 MWEs.2.3 The user interfaceThe interface is powered by IMS Corpus Work-bench (Christ, 1994) and is designed to be used inthe day-to-day workflow of novice and practisingtranslators, so the syntax of the CWB query lan-guage has been simplified to adapt it to the needsof the target user community.The interface implements a search model forfinding translation equivalents in monolingualcomparable corpora, which integrates a number ofstatistical and rule-based techniques for extendingsearch space, translating words and multiword ex-pressions into the target language and restrictingthe number of returned candidates in order to max-imise precision and recall of relevant translationequivalents.
In the proposed search model queriescan be expanded by generating lists of collocationsfor a given word or phrase, by generating sim-ilarity classes4 or by manual selection of wordsin concordances.
Transfer between the sourcelanguage and target language is done via lookupin a bilingual dictionary or via UCREL seman-tic codes, which are common for concepts in bothlanguages.
The search space is further restrictedby applying knowledge-based and statistical fil-ters (such as part-of-speech and semantic class fil-ters, IDF filter, etc), by testing the co-occurrenceof members of different similarity classes or bymanually selecting the presented variants.
Theseprocedures are elementary building blocks that areused in designing different search strategies effi-cient for different types of translation equivalents4Simclasses consist of words sharing collocates and arecomputed using Singular Value Decomposition, as used by(Rapp, 2004), e.g.
Paris and Strasbourg are produced forBrussels, or bus, tram and driver for passenger.and contexts.The core functionality of the system is intendedto be self-explanatory and to have a shallow learn-ing curve: in many cases default search parame-ters work well, so it is sufficient to input a wordor an expression in the source language in or-der to get back a useful list of translation equiv-alents, which can be manually checked by a trans-lator to identify the most suitable solution for agiven context.
For example, the word combina-tion frustrated passenger is not found in the ma-jor English-Russian dictionaries, while none of thecandidate translations of frustrated are suitable inthis context.
The default search strategy for thisphrase is to generate the similarity class for En-glish words frustrate, passenger, produce all pos-sible translations using a dictionary and to test co-occurrence of the resulting Russian words in targetlanguage corpora.
This returns a list of 32 Rus-sian phrases, which follow the pattern of ?annoyed/ impatient / unhappy + commuter / passenger /driver?.
Among other examples the list includesan appropriate translation ???????????
????????
(?unsatisfied passenger?
).The following example demonstrates the sys-tem?s ability to find equivalents when there isa reliable context to identify terms in the twolanguages.
Recent political developments inRussia produced a new expression ???????????????????????
(?representative of president?
), whichis as yet too novel to be listed in dictionaries.However, the system can help to identify the peo-ple that perform this duty, translate their namesto English and extract the set of collocates thatfrequently appear around their names in Britishnewspapers, including Putin?s personal envoy andPutin?s regional representative, even if no specificterm has been established for this purpose in theBritish media.As words cannot be translated in isolation andtheir potential translation equivalents also oftenconsist of several words, the system detects notonly single-word collocates, but also multiwordexpressions.
For instance, the set of Russiancollocates of ??????????
(bureaucracy) includes????????
(Brussels), which offers a straightfor-ward translation into English and has such mul-tiword collocates as red tape, which is a suitablecontextual translation for ?????????
?.More experienced users can modify default pa-rameters and try alternative strategies, construct141their own search paths from available basic build-ing blocks and store them for future use.
Storedstrategies comprise several elementary stages butare executed in one go, although intermediate re-sults can also be accessed via the ?history?
frame.Several search paths can be tried in parallel anddisplayed together, so an optimal strategy for agiven class of phrases can be more easily identi-fied.Unlike Machine Translation, the system doesnot translate texts.
The main thrust of the sys-tem lies in its ability to find several target languageexamples that are relevant to the source languageexpression.
In some cases this results in sugges-tions that can be directly used for translating thesource example, while in other cases the systemprovides hints for the translator about the range oftarget language expressions beyond what is avail-able in bilingual dictionaries.
Even if the preci-sion of the current version is not satisfactory for anMT system (2-3 suitable translations out of 30-50suggested examples), human translators are ableto skim through the suggested set to find what isrelevant for the given translation task.3 ConclusionsThe set of tools is now under further development.This involves an extension of the English seman-tic tagger, development of the Russian tagger withthe target lexical coverage of 90% of source texts,designing the procedure for retrieval of semanti-cally similar situations and completing the user in-terface.
Identification of semantically similar sit-uations can be improved by the use of segment-matching algorithms as employed in Example-Based MT and translation memories (Planas andFuruse, 2000; Carl and Way, 2003).There are two main applications of the pro-posed methodology.
One concerns training trans-lators and advanced foreign language (FL) learn-ers to make them aware of the variety of transla-tion equivalents beyond the set offered by the dic-tionary.
The other application pertains to the de-velopment of tools for practising translators.
Al-though the Russian language is not typologicallyclose to English and uses another writing systemwhich does not allow easy identification of cog-nates, Russian and English belong to the sameIndo-European family and the contents of Rus-sian and English newspapers reflect the same setof topics.
Nevertheless, the application of thisresearch need not be restricted to the English-Russian pair only.
The methodology for multilin-gual processing of monolingual comparable cor-pora, first tested in this project, will provide ablueprint for the development of similar tools forother language combinations.AcknowledgmentsThe project is supported by two EPSRC grants:EP/C004574 for Lancaster, EP/C005902 for Leeds.ReferencesPeter Bennison and Lynne Bowker.
2000.
Designing atool for exploiting bilingual comparable corpora.
InProceedings of LREC 2000, Athens, Greece.Michael Carl and Andy Way, editors.
2003.
Re-cent advances in example-based machine transla-tion.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Oliver Christ.
1994.
A modular and flexible archi-tecture for an integrated corpus query system.
InCOMPLEX?94, Budapest.Ido Dagan and Kenneth Church.
1997.
Ter-might: Coordinating humans and machines in bilin-gual terminology acquisition.
Machine Translation,12(1/2):89?107.Herv?
D?jean, ?ric Gaussier, and Fatia Sadat.
2002.An approach based on multilingual thesauri andmodel combination for bilingual lexicon extraction.In COLING 2002.Laura L?fberg, Scott Piao, Paul Rayson, Jukka-PekkaJuntunen, Asko Nyk?nen, and Krista Varantola.2005.
A semantic tagger for the Finnish language.In Proceedings of the Corpus Linguistics 2005 con-ference.Tom McArthur.
1981.
Longman Lexicon of Contem-porary English.
Longman.Emmanuel Planas and Osamu Furuse.
2000.
Multi-level similar segment matching algorithm for trans-lation memories and example-based machine trans-lation.
In COLING, 18th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics, pages 621?627.Reinhard Rapp.
2004.
A freely available automaticallygenerated thesaurus of related words.
In Proceed-ings of LREC 2004, pages 395?398.Paul Rayson, Dawn Archer, Scott Piao, and TonyMcEnery.
2004.
The UCREL semantic analysissystem.
In Proceedings of the workshop on Be-yond Named Entity Recognition Semantic labellingfor NLP tasks in association with LREC 2004, pages7?12.142
