Compiling French-Japanese Terminologies from the WebXavier Robitaille?, Yasuhiro Sasaki?, Masatsugu Tonoike?,Satoshi Sato?
and Takehito Utsuro?
?Graduate School of Informatics,Kyoto UniversityYoshida-Honmachi, Sakyo-ku,Kyoto 606-8501 Japan?Graduate School of Engineering,Nagoya UniversityFuro-cho, Chikusa-ku,Nagoya 464-8603 Japan{xavier, sasaki, tonoike, utsuro}@pine.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp,ssato@nuee.nagoya-u.ac.jpAbstractWe propose a method for compiling bi-lingual terminologies of multi-wordterms (MWTs) for given translation pairsof seed terms.
Traditional methods for bi-lingual terminology compilation exploitparallel texts, while the more recent oneshave focused on comparable corpora.
Weuse bilingual corpora collected from theweb and tailor made for the seed terms.For each language, we extract from thecorpus a set of MWTs pertaining to theseed?s semantic domain, and use a com-positional method to align MWTs fromboth sets.
We increase the coverage ofour system by using thesauri and by ap-plying a bootstrap method.
Experimentalresults show high precision and indicatepromising prospects for future develop-ments.1 IntroductionBilingual terminologies have been the center ofmuch interest in computational linguistics.
Theirapplications in machine translation have provenquite effective, and this has fuelled research aim-ing at automating terminology compilation.
Earlydevelopments focused on their extraction fromparallel corpora (Daille et al (1994), Fung(1995)), which works well but is limited by thescarcity of such resources.
Recently, the focushas changed to utilizing comparable corpora,which are easier to obtain in many domains.Most of the proposed methods use the fact thatwords have comparable contexts across lan-guages.
Fung (1998) and Rapp (1999) use socalled context vector methods to extract transla-tions of general words.
Chiao and Zweigenbaum(2002) and D?jean and Gaussier (2002) applysimilar methods to technical domains.
Daille andMorin (2005) use specialized comparable cor-pora to extract translations of multi-word terms(MWTs).These methods output a few thousand termsand yield a precision of more or less 80% on thefirst 10-20 candidates.
We argue for the need forsystems that output fewer terms, but with ahigher precision.
Moreover, all the above wereconducted on language pairs including English.It would be possible, albeit more difficult, to ob-tain comparable corpora for pairs such asFrench-Japanese.
We will try to remove the needto gather corpora beforehand altogether.
Toachieve this, we use the web as our only sourceof data.
This idea is not new, and has alreadybeen tried by Cao and Li (2002) for base nounphrase translation.
They use a compositionalmethod to generate a set of translation candidatesfrom which they select the most likely translationby using empirical evidence from the web.The method we propose takes a translationpair of seed terms in input.
First, we collectMWTs semantically similar to the seed in eachlanguage.
Then, we work out the alignments be-tween the MWTs in both sets.
Our intuition isthat both seeds have the same related termsacross languages, and we believe that this willsimplify the alignment process.
The alignment isdone by generating a set of translation candidatesusing a compositional method, and by selectingthe most probable translation from that set.
It isvery similar to Cao and Li?s, except in two re-spects.
First, the generation makes use ofthesauri to account for lexical divergence be-tween MWTs in the source and target language.Second, we validate candidate translations usinga set of terms collected from the web, rather thanusing empirical evidence from the web as awhole.
Our research further differs from Cao andLi?s in that they focus only on finding validtranslations for given base noun phrases.
We at-tempt to both collect appropriate sets of relatedMWTs and to find their respective translations.The initial output of the system contains 9.6pairs on average, and has a precision of 92%.We use this high precision as a bootstrap toaugment the set of Japanese related terms, andobtain a final output of 19.6 pairs on average,with a precision of 81%.2 Related Term CollectionGiven a translation pair of seed terms (sf, sj), weuse a search engine to gather a set F of Frenchterms related to sf, and a set J of Japanese termsrelated to sj.
The methods applied for both lan-guages use the framework proposed by Sato andSasaki (2003), outlined in Figure 1.
We proceedin three steps: corpus collection, automatic termrecognition (ATR), and filtering.2.1 Corpus CollectionFor each language, we collect a corpus C fromweb pages by selecting passages that contain theseed.Web page collectionIn French, we use Google to find relevant webpages by entering the following three queries:?sf?, ?sf est?
(sf is), and ?sf sont?
(sf are).
In Japa-nese, we do the same with queries ?sj?, ?sj???,?sj?
?, ?sj???
?, and ?sj?
?, where ??
toha,?
ha, ???
toiu, and ?
no are Japanese func-tional words that are often used for defining orexplaining a term.
We retrieve the top pages foreach query, and parse those pages looking forhyperlinks whose anchor text contain the seed.
Ifsuch links exist, we retrieve the linked pages aswell.Sentence extractionFrom the retrieved web pages, we remove htmltags and other noise.
Then, we keep only prop-erly structured sentences containing the seed, aswell as the preceding and following sentences ?that is, we use a window of three sentencesaround the seed.2.2 Automatic Term RecognitionThe next step is to extract candidate related termsfrom the corpus.
Because the sentences compos-ing the corpus are related to the seed, the sameshould be true for the terms they contain.
Theprocess of extracting terms is highly languagedependent.French ATRWe use the C-value method (Frantzi andAnaniadou (2003)), which extracts compoundterms and ranks them according to their term-hood.
It consists of a linguistic part, followed bya statistical part.The linguistic part consists in applying a lin-guistic filter to constrain the structure of termsextracted.
We base our filter on a morphosyntac-tic pattern for the French language proposed byDaille et al It defines the structure of multi-wordunits (MWUs) that are likely to be terms.
Al-though their work focused on MWUs limited totwo content words (nouns, adjectives, verbs oradverbs), we extend our filter to MWUs ofgreater length.
The pattern is defined as follows:( ) ( )( )+NumNounDetPrepAdjNumNoun ?The statistical part measures the termhood ofeach compound that matches the linguistic pat-tern.
It is given by the C-value:( )( )( )( )( )??????????????????????=??
?otherwiseTbaaanestednotisaifaaaaTb aPff)f(log,flogvalueC22where a is the candidate string, f(a) is its fre-quency of occurrence in all the web pages re-trieved, Ta is the set of extracted candidate termsthat contain a, and P(Ta) is the number of thesecandidate terms.The nature of our variable length pattern issuch that if a long compound matches the pat-tern, all the shorter compounds it includes alsomatch.
For example, consider the N-Prep-N-related term sets(F, J)the  Web ATRFilteringCorpus collectioncorpora(Cf, Cj)term sets(Xf, Xj)seed terms(sf, sj)Figure 1: Related term collectionPrep-N structure in syst?me ?
base de connais-sances (knowledge based system).
The shortercandidate syst?me ?
base (based system) alsomatches, although we would prefer not to extractit.Fortunately, the strength of the C-value is theway it effectively handles nested MWTs.
Whenwe calculate the termhood of a string, we sub-tract from its total frequency its frequency as asubstring of longer candidate terms.
In otherwords, a shorter compound that almost alwaysappears nested in a longer compound will have acomparatively smaller C-value, even if its totalfrequency is higher than that of the longer com-pound.
Hence, we discard MWTs whose C-valueis smaller than that of a longer candidate term inwhich it is nested.Japanese ATRBecause compound nouns represent the bulk ofJapanese technical MWTs, we extract them ascandidate related terms.
As opposed to Sato andSasaki, we ignore single nouns.
Also, we do notlimit the number of candidates output by ATR asthey did.2.3 FilteringFinally, from the output set of ATR, we selectonly the technical terms that are part of theseed?s semantic domain.
Numerous measureshave been proposed to gauge the semantic simi-larity between two words (van Rijsbergen(1979)).
We choose the Jaccard coefficient,which we calculate based on search engine hitcounts.
The similarity between a seed term s anda candidate term x is given by: ( )( )xsHxsHJac ?
?=where H(s ?
x) is the hit count of pages contain-ing both s and x, and H(s ?
x) is the hit count ofpages containing s or x.
The latter can be calcu-lated as follows:( ) ( ) ( )xsHxHsHxsH ??+=?
)(Candidates that have a high enough coefficientare considered related terms of the seed.3 Term AlignmentOnce we have collected related terms in bothFrench and Japanese, we must link the terms inthe source language to the terms in the targetlanguage.
Our alignment procedure is twofold.First, we first generate Japanese translation can-didates for each collected French term.
Second,we select the most likely translation(s) from theset of candidates.
This is similar to the genera-tion and selection procedures used in the litera-ture (Baldwin and Tanaka (2004), Cao and Li,Langkilde and Knight (1998)).3.1 Translation Candidates GenerationTranslation candidates are generated using acompositional method, which can be divided inthree steps.
First, we decompose the FrenchMWTs into combinations of shorter MWU ele-ments.
Second, we look up the elements in bilin-gual dictionaries.
Third, we recompose transla-tion candidates by generating different combina-tions of translated elements.DecompositionIn accordance with Daille et al, we define thelength of a MWU as the number of contentwords it contains.
Let n be the length of theMWT to decompose.
We produce all the combi-nations of MWU elements of length less or equalto n. For example, consider the French transla-tion of ?knowledge based system?
:It has a length of three and yields the followingfour combinations1:Note the treatment given to the prepositionsand determiners: we leave them in place whenthey are interposed between content wordswithin elements, otherwise we remove them.Dictionary LookupWe look up each element in bilingual dictionar-ies.
Because some words appear in their inflectedforms, we use their lemmata.
In the examplegiven above, we look up connaissance (lemma)rather than connaissances (inflected).
Note thatwe do not lemmatize MWUs such as base deconnaissances.
This is due to the complexity ofgender and number agreements of French com-pounds.
However, only a small part of theMWTs are collected in their inflected forms, andFrench-Japanese bilingual dictionaries do notcontain that many MWTs to begin with.
The per-formance hit should therefore be minor.Already at this stage, we can anticipate prob-lems arising from the insufficient coverage of1 A MWT of length n produces 2n-1 combinations,including itself.syst?me ?
base de connaissancesNoun Prep Noun Prep Noun[syst?me ?
[base de [connaissances][syst?me]  [base de [connaissances][syst?me ?
[base]  [connaissances][syst?me]  [base]  [connaissances]French-Japanese lexicon resources.
Bilingualdictionaries may not have enough entries, andexisting entries may not include a great variety oftranslations for every sense.
The former problemhas no easy solution, and is one of the reasonswe are conducting this research.
The latter can bepartially remedied by using thesauri ?
we aug-ment each element?s translation set by lookingup in thesauri all the translations obtained withbilingual dictionaries.RecompositionTo recompose the translation candidates, wesimply generate all suitable combinations oftranslated elements for each decomposition.
Theword order is inverted to take into account thedifferent constraints in French and Japanese.
Inthe example above, if the lookup phase gave {??
chishiki}, {??
dodai, ???
besu} and {??
taikei, ????
shisutemu} as respectivetranslation sets for syst?me, base and connais-sance, the fourth decomposition given abovewould yield the following candidates:connaissance base syst?me??
??
????
??
??????
???
????
???
???
?If we do not find any translation for one of theelements, the generation fails.3.2 Translation SelectionSelection consists of picking the most likelytranslation from the translation candidates wehave generated.
To discern the likely from theunlikely, we use the empirical evidence providedby the set of Japanese terms related to the seed.We believe that if a candidate is present in thatset, it could well be a valid translation, as theFrench MWT in consideration is also related tothe seed.
Accordingly, our selection process con-sists of picking those candidates for which wefind a complete match among the related terms.3.3 Relevance of Compositional MethodsThe automatic translation of MWTs is no simpletask, and it is worthwhile asking if it is best tack-led with a compositional method.
Intricate prob-lems have been reported with the translations ofcompounds (Daille and Morin, Baldwin and Ta-naka), notably:?
fertility: source and target MWTs can beof different lengths.
For example, tablede v?rit?
(truth table) contains two con-tent words and translates into ?????
?shinri ?
chi ?
hyo (lit.
truth-value-table),which contains three.?
variability of forms in the transla-tions: MWTs can appear in many forms.For example, champ electromagn?tique(electromagnetic field) translates bothinto ????
denji?
ba (lit.
electromag-netic field)????
denji?kai (lit.
elec-tromagnetic ?region?).?
constructional variability in the trans-lations: source and target MWTs havedifferent morphological structures.
Forexample, in the pair apprentissage auto-matique???
???
kikai ?
gakushu(machine learning) we have (N-Adj)?(N-N).
In the pair programmationpar contraintes????????
patan?ninshiki (pattern recognition) we have(N-par-N)?(N-N).?
non-compositional compounds: somecompounds?
meaning cannot be derivedfrom the meaning of their components.For example, the Japanese term ??
?aka?ten (failing grade, lit.
?red point?
)translates into French as note d?
?chec (lit.failing grade) or simply ?chec (lit.
fail-ure).?
lexical divergence: source and targetMWTs can use different lexica to ex-press a concept.
For example, traductionautomatique (machine translation, lit.
?automatic translation?)
translates as ?????
kikai ?
honyaku (lit.
machinetranslation).It is hard to imagine any method that could ad-dress all these problems accurately.Tanaka and Baldwin (2003) found that 48.7%of English-Japanese Noun-Noun compoundstranslate compositionality.
In a preliminary ex-periment, we found this to be the case for asmuch as 75.1% of the collected MWTs.
If we areto maximize the coverage of our system, it issensible to start with a compositional approach.We will not deal with the problem of fertility andnon-compositional compounds in this paper.Nonetheless, lexical divergence and variabilityissues will be partly tackled by broader transla-tions and related words given by thesauri.4 Evaluation4.1 Linguistic ResourcesThe bilingual dictionaries used in the experi-ments are the Crown French-Japanese Dictionary(Ohtsuki et al (1989)), and the French-JapaneseScientific Dictionary (French-Japanese ScientificAssociation (1989)).
The former contains about50,000 entries of general usage single words.The latter contains about 50,000 entries of bothsingle and multi-word scientific terms.
Thesetwo complement each other, and by combiningboth entries we form our base dictionary towhich we refer as DicFJ.The main thesaurus used is Bunrui Goi Hyo(National Institute for Japanese Language(2004)).
It contains about 96,000 words, andeach entry is organized in two levels: a list ofsynonyms and a list of more loosely relatedwords.
We augment the initial translation set bylooking up the Japanese words given by DicFJ.The expanded bilingual dictionary comprised ofthe words from DicFJ combined with their syno-nyms is denoted DicFJJ.
The dictionary resultingof DicFJJ combined with the more loosely relatedwords is denoted DicFJJ2.Finally, we build another thesaurus from aJapanese-English dictionary.
We use Eijiro(Electronic Dictionary Project (2004)), whichcontains 1,290,000 entries.
For a given Japaneseentry, we look up its English translations.
TheJapanese translations of the English intermediar-ies are used as synonyms/related words of theentry.
The resulting thesaurus is expected to pro-vide even more loosely related translations (andalso many irrelevant ones).
We denote it DicFJEJ.4.2 NotationLet F and J be the two sets of related terms col-lected in French and Japanese.
F?
is the subset ofF for which Jac?0.01: { }01.0)(' ?
?= fJacFfFF?
* is the subset of valid related terms in F?, asdetermined by human evaluation.
P is the set ofall potential translation pairs among the collectedterms (P=F?J).
P?
is the set of pairs containingeither a French term or a Japanese term withJac?0.01:( ){ }01.0)(01.0)(,' ????
?= jJacfJacJjFfPP?
* is the subset of valid translation pairs in P?,determined by human evaluation.
These pairsneed to respect three criteria: 1) contain validterms, 2) be related to the seed, and 3) constitutea valid translation.
M is the set of all translationsselected by our system.
M?
is the subset of pairsin M with Jac?0.01 for either the French or theJapanese term.
It is also the output of our system: { }01.0)(01.0)(),(' ???
?= jJacfJacMjfMM?
* is the intersection of M?
and P?
*, or in otherwords, the subset of valid translation pairs outputby our system.4.3 Baseline MethodOur starting point is the simplest possible align-ment, which we refer to as our baseline.
It isworked out by using each of the aforementioneddictionaries independently.
The output set ob-tained using DicFJ is denoted FJ, the one usingDicFJJ is denoted FJJ, and so on.
The experimentis made using the eight seed pairs given in Table1.
On average, we have |F'| =74.3, |F'*|=51.0 and|P'*|=24.0.
Table 2 gives a summary of the keyresults.
The precision and the recall are given by:''*MMprecision =  ,'*'*PMrecall =DicFJ contains only Japanese translations cor-responding to the strict sense of French elements.Such a dictionary generates only a few transla-tion candidates which tend to be correct whenpresent in the target set.
On the other hand, thelookup in DicFJJ2 and DicFJEJ interprets FrenchSet |M'| |M'*| Prec.
RecallFJ 10.5 9.6  92% 40%FJJ 15.3 12.6  83% 53%FJJ2 20.5 13.4  65% 56%FJEJ 30.9 14.1  46% 59%Table 2: Results for the baselineId French Japanese (English)1 analyse vectorielle ???????
bekutoru?kaiseki (vector analysis)2 circuit logique ?????
ronri?kairo (logic circuit)3   intelligence artificielle          ?????
jinko?chinou (artificial intelligence)4 linguistique informatique ??????
keisan?gengogaku (computational linguistics)5 reconnaissance des formes ???????
patan?ninshiki (pattern recognition)6 reconnaissance vocale ?????
onsei?ninshiki (speech recognition)7 science cognitive ?????
ninchi?kagaku (cognitive science)8 traduction automatique ?????
kikai?honyaku (machine translation)Table 1: Seed pairsMWT elements with more laxity, generatingmore translations and thus more alignments, atthe cost of some precision.4.4 Incremental SelectionThe progressive increase in recall given by theincreasingly looser translations is in inverse pro-portion to the decrease in precision, which hintsthat we should give precedence to the alignmentsobtained with the more accurate methods.
Con-sequently, we start by adding the alignments inFJ to the output set.
Then, we augment it withthe alignments from FJJ whose terms are notalready in FJ.
The resulting set is denoted FJJ'.We then augment FJJ' with the pairs from FJJ2whose terms are not in FJJ', and so on, until weexhaust the alignments in FJEJ.For instance, let FJ contain (synth?se de laparole?
?
?
?
?
?
onsei ?
gousei (speechsynthesis)) and FJJ contain this pair plus(synth?se de la parole??????
onsei?kaiseki(speech analysis)).
In the first iteration, the pairin FJ is added to the output set.
In the seconditeration, no pair is added because the output setalready contains an alignment with synth?se dela parole.Table 3 gives the results for each incrementalstep.
We can see an increase in precision for FJJ',FJJ2' and FJEJ' of respectively 5%, 9% and 8%,compared to FJJ, FJJ2 and FJEJ.
We are effec-tively filtering output pairs and, as expected, theincrease in precision is accompanied by a slightdecrease in recall.
Note that, because FJEJ isnot a superset of FJJ2, we see an increase in bothprecision and recall in FJEJ' over FJEJ.
None-theless, the precision yielded by FJEJ' is not suf-ficient, which is why DicFJEJ is left out in thenext experiment.4.5 BootstrappingThe coverage of the system is still shy of the 20pairs/seed objective we gave ourselves.
Onecause for this is the small number of valid trans-lation pairs available in the corpora.
From anaverage of 51 valid related terms in the sourceset, only 24 have their translation in the target set.To counter that problem, we increase the cover-age of Japanese related terms and hope that bydoing so, we will also increase the coverage ofthe system as a whole.Once again, we utilize the high precision ofthe baseline method.
The average 10.5 pairs inFJ include 92% of Japanese terms semanticallysimilar to the seed.
By inputting these terms inthe term collection system, we collect manymore terms, some of which are probably thetranslations of our French MWTs.The results for the baseline method with boot-strapping are given in Table 4.
The ones usingincremental selection and bootstrapping aregiven in Table 5.
FJ+ consists of the alignmentsgiven by a generation process using DicFJ and aselection performed on the augmented set of re-lated terms.
FJJ+ and FJJ2+ are obtained in thesame way using DicFJJ and DicFJJ2.
FJ+' containsthe alignments from FJ, augmented with thosefrom FJ+ whose terms are not in FJ.
FJJ+' con-tains FJ+', incremented with terms from FJJ.FJJ+'' contains FJJ+', incremented with termsfrom FJJ+, and so on.The bootstrap mechanism grows the targetterm set tenfold, making it very laborious toidentify all the valid translation pairs manually.Consequently, we only evaluate the pairs outputby the system, making it impossible to calculaterecall.
Instead, we use the number of valid trans-lation pairs as a makeshift measure.Bootstrapping successfully allows for manymore translation pairs to be found.
FJ+, FJJ+,and FJJ2+ respectively contain 7.6, 8.7 and 8.5more valid alignments on average than FJ, FJJand FJJ2.
The augmented target term set is nois-ier than the initial set, and it produces many moreinvalid alignments as well.
Fortunately, the in-cremental selection effectively filters out most ofthe unwanted, restoring the precision to accept-able levels.Set |M'| |M'*| Prec.
RecallFJJ' 14.0  12.3  88% 51%FJJ2' 16.1  12.8  79% 53%FJEJ' 29.1  15.5  53% 65%Table 3: Results for the incremental selectionSet |M'| |M'*| Prec.FJ+' 19.5 16.1  83%FJJ+' 22.5 18.6  83%FJJ +'' 24.3 19.6  81%FJJ2+' 25.6 20.1  79%FJJ2+'' 28.6 20.6  72%Table 5: Results for the incrementalselection with bootstrap expansionSet |M'| |M'*| Prec.FJ+ 20.9 16.8  80%FJJ+ 30.9 21.3  69%FJJ2+ 45.8 22.6  49%Table 4: Results for the baselinemethod with bootstrap expansion4.6 AnalysisA comparison of all the methods is illustrated inthe precision ?
valid alignments curves of Figure2.
The points on the four curves are taken fromTables 2 to 5.
The gap between the dotted andfilled curves clearly shows that bootstrappingincreases coverage.
The respective positions ofthe squares and crosses show that incrementalselection effectively filters out erroneous align-ments.
FJJ+'', with 19.6 valid alignments and aprecision of 81%, is at the rightmost and upper-most position in the graph.
The detailed resultsfor each seed are presented in Table 6, and thecomplete output for the seed ?logic circuit?
isgiven in Table 7.From the average 4.7 erroneous pairs/seed, 3.2(68%) were correct translations but were judgedunrelated to the seed.
This is not surprising, con-sidering that our set of French related terms con-tained only 69% (51/74.3) of valid related terms.Also note that, of the 24.3 pairs/seed output, 5.25are listed in the French-Japanese Scientific Dic-tionary.
However, only 3.9 of those pairs are in-cluded in M'*.
The others were deemed unrelatedto the seed.In the output set of ?machine translation?, ????????
shizen ?gengo ?shori (natural lan-guage processing) is aligned to both traitementdu language naturel and traitement des languesnaturelles.
The system captures the term?s vari-ability around langue/language.
Lexical diver-gence is also taken into account to some extent.The seed computational linguistics yields thealignment of langue maternelle (mother tongue)with ??
??
bokoku ?
go (literally [[mother-country]-language]).
The usage of thesauri en-abled the system to include the concept of coun-try in the translated MWT, even though it is notpresent in any of the French elements.5 Conclusion and future workWe have proposed a method for compiling bilin-gual terminologies of compositionally translatedMWTs.
As opposed to previous work, we use theweb rather than comparable corpora as a sourceof bilingual data.
Our main insight is to constrainsource and target candidate MWTs to only thosestrongly related to the seed.
This allows us toachieve term alignment with high precision.
Weshowed that coverage reaches satisfactory levelsby using thesauri and bootstrapping.Due to the difference in objectives and in cor-pora, it is very hard to compare results: ourmethod produces a rather small set of highly ac-curate alignments, whereas extraction from com-parable corpora generates much more candidates,but with an inferior precision.
These two ap-proaches have very different applications.
Ourmethod does however eliminate the requirementof comparable corpora, which means that we canuse seeds from any domain, provided we havereasonably rich dictionaries and thesauri.Let us not forget that this article describesonly a first attempt at compiling French-Japaneseterminology, and that various sources of im-provement have been left untapped.
In particular,our alignment suffers from the fact that we donot discriminate between different candidatetranslations.
This could be achieved by using anyof the more sophisticated selection methods pro-posed in the literature.
Currently, corpus featuresare used solely for the collection of related terms.These could also be utilized in the translationselection, which Baldwin and Tanaka haveshown to be quite effective.
We could also makeuse of bilingual dictionary features as they did.Lexical context is another resource we have notexploited.
Context vectors have successfullybeen applied in translation selection by Fung  aswell as  Daille and Morin.On a different level, we could also apply thebootstrapping to expand the French set of relatedterms.
Finally, we are investigating the possibil-seed |F'| |F'*| |P'*| |M'| |M'*| Prec.1 89 40 14 26 13 50%2 64 55 24 14 14 100%3 72 59 38 40 33 83%4 67 49 22 23 18 78%5 85 70 22 21 17 81%6 67 50 27 22 21 95%7 36 27 16 20 17 85%8 114 58 29 28 24 86%avg 74.3 51.0 24.0  24.3  19.6  81%Table 6: Detailed results for  FJJ+''70%80%90%100%25Precision0%10%20%30%40%50%60%0 5 10 15 20BaselineBaseline with bootstrapIncrementalIncremental with bootstrapNumber of Valid AlignmentsFigure 2: Precision - Valid Alignments curvesity of resolving the alignments in the oppositedirection: from Japanese to French.
Surely theconstructional variability of French MWTswould present some difficulties, but we are con-fident that this could be tackled using translationtemplates, as proposed by Baldwin and Tanaka.ReferencesT.
Baldwin and T. Tanaka.
2004.
Translation by Ma-chine of Complex Nominals: Getting it Right.
InProc.
of the ACL 2004 Workshop on MultiwordExpressions: Integrating Processing, pp.
24?31,Barcelona, Spain.Y.
Cao and H. Li.
2002.
Base Noun Phrase Transla-tion Using Web Data and the EM Algorithm.
InProc.
of COLING -02, Taipei, Taiwan.Y.C.
Chiao and P. Zweigenbaum.
2002.
Looking forCandidate Translational Equivalents in Specialized,Comparable Corpora.
In Proc.
of COLING-02, pp.1208?1212.
Taipei, Taiwan.B.
Daille, E. Gaussier, and J.M.
Lange.
1994.
To-wards Automatic Extraction of Monolingual andBilingual Terminology.
In Proc.
of COLING-94,pp.
515?521, Kyoto, Japan.B.
Daille and E. Morin.
2005.
French-English Termi-nology Extraction from Comparable Corpora, InIJCNLP-05, pp.
707?718, Jeju Island, Korea.H.
D?jean., E. Gaussier and F. Sadat.
An ApproachBased on Multilingual Thesauri and Model Com-bination for Bilingual Lexicon Extraction.
In Proc.of COLING-02, pp.
218?224.
Taipei, Taiwan.Electronic Dictionary Project.
2004.
Eijiro Japanese-English Dictionary: version 79.
EDP.K.T.
Frantzi, and S. Ananiadou.
2003.
The C-Value/NC-Value Domain Independent Method forMulti-Word Term Extraction.
Journal of NaturalLanguage Processing, 6(3), pp.
145?179.French Japanese Scientific Association.
1989.
French-Japanese Scientific Dictionary: 4th edition.
Haku-suisha.P.
Fung.
1995.
A Pattern Matching Method for Find-ing Noun and Proper Noun from Noisy ParallelCorpora.
In Proc of the ACL-95, pp.
236?243,Cambridge, USA.P.
Fung.
1998.
A Statiscal View on Bilingual LexiconExtraction: From Parallel Corpora to Non-parallelCorpora.
In D. Farwell, L. Gerber and L.
Hovyeds.
: Proceedings of the AMTA-98, Springer, pp.1?16.I.
Langkilde and K. Knight.
1998.
Generation thatexploits corpus-based statistical knowledge.
InCOLLING/ACL-98, pp.
704?710, Montreal, Can-ada.National Institute for Japanese Language.
2004.
Bun-rui Goi Hyo: revised and enlarged edition Dainip-pon Tosho.T.
Ohtsuki et al 1989.
Crown French-Japanese Dic-tionary: 4th edition.
Sanseido.R.
Rapp.
1999.
Automatic Identification of WordTranslations from Unrelated English and GermanCorpora.
In Proc.
of the ACL-99.
pp.
1?17.
Col-lege Park, USA.S.
Sato and Y. Sasaki.
2003.
Automatic Collection ofRelated Terms from the Web.
In ACL-03 Compan-ion Volume to the Proc.
of the Conference, pp.121?124, Sapporo, Japan.T.
Tanaka and T. Baldwin.
2003.
Noun-Noun Com-pound Machine Translation: A Feasibility Study onShallow Processing.
In Proc.
of the ACL-2003Workshop on Multiword Expressions: Analysis,Acquisition and Treatment, pp.
17?24.
Sapporo,Japan.van Rijsbergen, C.J.
1979.
Information Retrieval.London: Butterworths.
Second Edition.Jac (Fr.)
French term Japanese term (English) eval?0.100  portes logiques ??????
ronri?geeto (logic gate) 2/2/20.064  fonctions logiques ?????
ronri?kansuu (logic function) 2/2/20.064  fonctions logiques ?????
ronri?kinou (logic function) 2/2/20.048  registre ?
d?calage ????????
shifuto?rejisuta (shift register) 2/2/20.044  simulateur de circuit ?????????
kairo?shimureeta (circuit simulator) 2/2/20.040  circuit combinatoire ??????
kumiawase?kairo (combinatorial circuit) 2/2/20.031  nombre binaire 2???
ni?shinsuu (binary number) 2/2/20.024  niveaux logiques ??????
ronri?reberu (logical level) 2/2/20.020  circuit logique combinatoire ?????????
kumiawase?ronri?kairo (combinatorial logic circuit) 2/2/20.017  valeur logique ????
ronri?chi (logical value) 2/2/20.013  tension d' alimentation ?????
dengen?denatsu (supply voltage) 2/2/20.011  conception de circuits ?????
kairo?sekkei (circuit design) 2/2/20.007  conception d' un circuit logique ????????
ronri?kairo?sekkei (logic circuit design) 2/1/20.005  nombre de portes ?????
geeto?suu (number of gates) 2/1/2?
relatedness / termhood / quality of the translation, on a scale of  0 to 2Table 7: System output for seed pair circuit logique ?????
(logic circuit)
