Information structure and pauses in a corpus of spoken DanishPatrizia PaggioCentre for Language TechnologyUniversity of CopehagenDenmarkpatrizia@cst.dkAbstractThis paper describes a study in which acorpus of spoken Danish annotated withfocus and topic tags was used to inves-tigate the relation between informationstructure and pauses.
The results showthat intra-clausal pauses in the focus do-main, tend to precede those words thatexpress the property or semantic typewhereby the object in focus is distin-guished from other ones in the domain.1 IntroductionThe interest for corpora annotated with infor-mation structure has been raised recently byseveral authors.
Kruijff-Korbayova?
and Kruijff(2004) describe a method where a rich discourse-level annotation is used to investigate informa-tion structure, while both Postolache (2005) andDiderichsen and Elming (2005) study the appli-cation of machine learning to the problem of au-tomatic identification of topic and focus.
In thisstudy, on the contrary, information structure isannotated manually, and the annotation is usedto investigate the correlation between informa-tion structure tags and intra-clausal pauses.2 Annotating information structureThe starting point for this study was the corpusof spoken Danish ?DanPass?
(Gr?nnum, 2005),a collection of 54 monologues produced by 18different subjects dealing with three well-definedtasks, following the methodology established inTerken (1985).
In the first task, the subjects de-scribe a geometrical network, in the second theprocess of assembling the drawing of a houseout of existing pieces, and in the third they solvea map task.
The corpus has been annotatedwith several annotation tiers, including orthogra-phy, phonetic transcription, pauses and PoS-tags.Two independent annotators added then tags forfocus and topic based on a set of simple guide-lines, and using the Praat tool to carry out theannotation.The annotation reflects the assumption that asentence can be divided into an obligatory fo-cus part, which expresses the non-presupposedinformation, and a presupposed background part.A referent in the background part may functionas the sentence topic in the sense of Lambrecht(1994).
For each sentence in the corpus, the an-notators were asked to identify what they intu-itively considered non-presupposed informationand annotate it as belonging to the focus.
Techni-cally, each word belonging to the focus is addeda focus tag.
The annotators were also asked totest whether they could single out a sentence ref-erent by means of the ?What about X?
test (Rein-hart, 1981).
If they could, they were asked to addtopic tags to all the words making up the corre-sponding expression.
Words not bearing any tagare considered part of the background.The guidelines did not contain any referenceto pausing, nor did the annotators know that theirwork would be used to study the correlation be-191Focus Topic No tag TotalNetwork C1 1608 268 2526 4402Network C2 1889 287 2226 4402House C1 4025 386 4151 8562House C2 4193 377 3992 8562Table 1: Tags in two corpus sectionstween pauses and information structure.
In fact,that was not the purpose of the annotation work,which is of more general interest.
It should alsobe noted that the annotators were not explicitlyinstructed to code phrases, since we did not wantto make the assumption that topic or focus nec-essarily correspond to syntactic phrases.
Ap-proximately two person months were spent an-notating two sections of the corpus.
The kappascore varied between 0.7 to 0.8 depending onthe corpus section, showing an acceptable inter-annotator agreement.
Most disagreements relateto the identification of the focus left-hand bound-ary, where one of the annotators sometimes iden-tified wider focus domains than the other.
Thesedifferences have not been inspected yet, but willbe used to revise the guidelines to produce aunique consistent annotation.
Table (1) showsthe number of tags assigned by the two coders(C1 and C2) in the two sections of the corpuscoded so far.Below, an example of an annotated tier isshown in a linearised format (the textgrids out-put by Praat also contain time intervals that linkthe transcription to the sound file):(1) + ovenover + er der en/F + gr?n/F cirkel/F= og oven over den/T gr?nne/T cirkel/T erder en/F + lilla/F trekant/F +?PAUSE above PAUSE there is [F a PAUSEgreen circle] PAUSE and above [T the greencircle] there is [F a PAUSE purple triangle]?The example consists of two sentences.
In thefirst, the annotator has tagged ?en gr?n cirkel?
(agreen circle) as the focus; in the second, ?dengr?nne cirkel?
(the green circle) has been taggedas the topic, while ?en lilla trekant?
(a purple tri-angle) is tagged as the focus.
Pauses are indi-cated by ?+?
and ?=?.
The former is a silent pause,and the latter a pause accompanied by a sound,like ?hmm?.
Pauses were already available in theorthographic transcription of the corpus, whichwas produced earlier by different annotators.3 Pauses in earlier studiesThe material annotated so far already gives usthe possibility to investigate whether there is asignificant relation between pauses and informa-tion structure.
Earlier studies (Jensen, 2005)(Hansen et al, 1993) investigated the effect ofsyntactic boundaries (clausal as well as phrasal)on the placing of pauses in spoken Danish.
Inthe first study, it is found that more than 55%of the pauses co-occur with clause boundaries,12% with phrase boundaries, and the remain-ing 33% occur within phrases or in conjunctionwith repairs, interjections and enumerations.
Itis also noted that pauses falling within a syntac-tic phrase tend to be placed in the final part ofthe sentence.
The second study confirms this ob-servation by showing that 60% of the pauses thatdo not co-occur with syntactic boundaries occurwithin the last 40% of the sentence (measured innumber of syllables).
The authors of both inves-tigations make the hypothesis that informationstructure may have an effect on the occurrenceof pauses within clauses.
However, the empiri-cal material used in those works is not annotatedwith respect to information structure, and there-fore, no conclusive claim could be made.
In ad-dition, the data used in Hansen et al(1993) comefrom news reading, and are thus essentially writ-ten language although delivered orally.4 Pauses and focusing in DanishThe purpose of this pilot study is, on the basisof the annotated DanPass corpus, to verify i. towhat degree pauses tend to be associated with fo-cus and topic, and ii.
where in the focus domainpauses tend to occur, particularly whether pausesare used to mark the left-hand focus boundary.Since we already know from the studies citedabove that there is a strong tendency for pausesto coincide with clause boundaries, we decided192F word T word No tag TotalPause 20.29 7.59 39.70 28.34No pause 79.71 92.41 60.30 71.66Total 100 100 100 100Table 2: Distribution of pauses over informationstructure categories (%)to exclude those from the study, and only lookat pauses that occur within clauses.
So far, theinvestigation has been carried out for the networkdescription part of the corpus, and only for thedata produced by one of the coders.The first question ?
whether pauses relate towords coded as either focus or topic ?
was inves-tigated by counting, out of a total 3659 words,how many words tagged as either F or T, or bear-ing no tag, are preceded by a pause (silent or nonsilent).
The results, shown in Tables (2), seemto disconfirm the hypothesis that there shouldbe a correlation between pauses and informationstructure categories, or at least that a correlation,if it exists, can be expressed by looking at the fre-quency with which pauses precede focus or topicwords.
In fact, over 65% of the intra-clausalpauses in the material precede untagged words,and the observed frequency of a pause before afocus or a topic word is lower than the average28.34% (baseline).Since we know that topics often occursentence-initially, the results in the tables aremisleading in that only intra-clausal pauses aretaken into consideration.
Therefore we alsolooked at what percentage of topic words aresucceeded rather than preceded by a pause, andfound that 33.50% are.
This figure is interesting,but needs further investigations.Now we zoom in on the focus domain.
Firstof all, we look at pause distribution across dif-ferent part-of-speech categories, again by in-specting the pauses preceding words.
Table (3)shows the frequency with which different part-of-speech categories occurring in the focus do-main (i.e.
tagged ?F?)
are preceded by a pause.The total no.
of words considered is 1661.The interesting fact that emerges is that adjec-tives have a remarkably higher probability to bepreceded by a pause than any of the other cate-gory, and also a clearly higher probability thanthe average 28.34%.We then looked at the first pause in the fo-cus domain.
The first pause falls before the firstfocus word in only 30% of the cases.
In otherwords, it does not seem to mark the left-handboundary of the focus domain.
By running a de-cision tree generator (Witten and Eibe, 2005) onthe data, we found that the strongest rule learntby the system was one that places the first pausein the focus domain between a determiner and anadjective (2).
Another rule predicts that a pausewill fall between an adjective and a noun (3).
(2) tilbage er der... en/F + r?d/F firkant/F?left there is... [F a PAUSE red square]?
(3) til venstre... l?gger du en/F r?d/F +firkant/F?to the left... you put [F a red PAUSEsquare]?The two rules reflect a strong characteristic ofthe monologues under investigation, where thespeakers have to draw the listener?s attention tothe various geometrical figures in the networkthey are describing.
To tell them apart from eachother, they either use the colour of the figure orits shape.
In other words, the pauses occurringin the focus domain tend to precede the wordthat expresses what Dik (1989) calls selecting fo-cus, here an adjective that, by defining a selectingproperty or type, helps distinguishing the objectin focus from other similar ones.
From the pointof view of accentuation, however, the adjective isnot more prominent than the noun, and is there-fore not annotated as the only word in focus.5 Conclusions and further researchIn conclusion, the pilot study shows that wordsmaking up the topic or the focus of a sentencedo not show a general tendency to be precededby pauses.
However, preliminary results indicatethat topics tend to be followed by pauses.
Fur-thermore, words belonging to specific syntatic193Adj Adv Conj Det N Prep Part Pro Verb Other TotalPause 36.34 6.94 16.67 18.97 17.11 19.83 25.00 4.76 6.33 20.00 20.29No pause 63.66 93.06 83.33 81.03 82.89 80.17 75.00 95.24 93.67 80.00 79.71Total 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100Table 3: Distribution of pauses over part-of-speech categories in the focus domain (%)categories may have a significantly higher proba-bility to be preceded by a pause than a randomlychosen word.
In the corpus we have workedwith, these words express the property or seman-tic type whereby the object in focus can be dis-tinguished from other similar objects.
In otherwords, the system by which Danish speakers usepauses seems sensitive to information structurein a subtle way that, at least as far as focus isconcerned, creates boundaries that do not neces-sarily correspond to those between syntactic con-stituents.An interesting issue we haven?t yet ad-dressed is whether intra-clausal pauses relate toprosodic phrases, which according to Steedman(2001) correspond to information structural con-stituents.
Since the DanPass annotation alsoforesees a tier for prosodic phrases, this inves-tigation is possible.
Furthermore, we want totest whether there are differences in the way inwhich different users relate pauses to topic es-tablishment and focusing.
We know already nowthat the percentage of pauses per word variesacross speakers, and that speakers?
individualpause rates do not vary much depending on thetask.
The corpus provides a very nice means ofstudying whether they use pauses for differentpurposes.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported by the Carlsberg Foun-dation.ReferencesPhilip Diderichsen and Jakob Elming.
2005.
Acorpus-based approach to topic in Danish dialog.In Proceedings of the ACL Student Research Work-shop, pages 119?114.
Ann Arbor Michigan, June.Simon Dik.
1989.
The Theory of Functional Gram-mar.
Functional Grammar Series.
Dordrecht:Foris Publications.Nina Gr?nnum.
2005.
DanPASS - Danish phoneti-cally annotated spontaneous speech.
Talk given atFONETIK 2005 in Gothemburg, May.Peter Molb?k Hansen, Niels Reinholt Petersen, andEbbe Spang-Hanssen.
1993.
Syntactic boundariesand pauses in read-aloud Danish prose.
In Bjo?rnGranstro?m and Lennart Nord, editors, NordicProsody VI.
Papers from a symposium, pages 159?172.
Stockholm: Almqvist and Wiksell Interna-tional.Anne Jensen.
2005.
Clause Linkage in Spoken Dan-ish.
Ph.D. thesis, Department of General and Ap-plied Linguistics, University of Copenhagen, July.Ivana Kruijff-Korbayova?
and Geert-Jan M. Kruijff.2004.
Discourse-level annotation for investigatinginformation structure.
In Proceedings of the ACLWorkshop on Discourse Annotation.Knud Lambrecht.
1994.
Information Structure andSentence Form.
Cambridge Studies in Linguistics.Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Oana Postolache.
2005.
Learning information struc-ture in the Prague treebank.
In Proceedings ofthe ACL Student Research Workshop.
Ann Arbor,Michigan, June.Tanya Reinhart.
1981.
Pragmatics and linguis-tics: an analysis of sentence topics.
Philosophica,27(1):53?94.Mark Steedman.
2001.
Information-structural se-mantics for English intonation.
In Proceedings ofLSA Summer Institute Workshop on Topic and Fo-cus.
Santa Barbara, July.Jacques M. B. Terken.
1985.
Use and Function ofAccentuation: Some Experiments.
Ph.D. thesis,Leiden University, September.Ian H. Witten and Frank Eibe.
2005.
Data Mining:Practical machine learning tools and techniques.Morgan Kaufmann: San Francisco, 2nd edition.194
