Proceedings of the 12th Conference of the European Chapter of the ACL, pages 728?736,Athens, Greece, 30 March ?
3 April 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsFrequency Matters: Pitch Accents and Information StatusKatrin Schweitzer, Michael Walsh, Bernd Mo?bius,Arndt Riester, Antje Schweitzer, Hinrich Schu?tzeUniversity of StuttgartStuttgart, Germany<firstname>.<surname>@ims.uni-stuttgart.deAbstractThis paper presents the results of a seriesof experiments which examine the impactof two information status categories (givenand new) and frequency of occurrence onpitch accent realisations.
More specifi-cally the experiments explore within-typesimilarity of pitch accent productions andthe effect information status and frequencyof occurrence have on these productions.The results indicate a significant influenceof both pitch accent type and informationstatus category on the degree of within-type variability, in line with exemplar-theoretic expectations.1 IntroductionIt seems both intuitive and likely that prosodyshould have a significant role to play in markinginformation status in speech.
While there are wellestablished expectations concerning typical asso-ciations between categories of information statusand categories of pitch accent, e.g.
rising L?Haccents are often a marker for givenness, thereis nevertheless some variability here (Baumann,2006).
Furthermore, little research has focused onhow pitch accent tokens of the same type are re-alised nor have the effects of information statusand frequency of occurrence been considered.From the perspective of speech technology, thetasks of automatically inferring and assigning in-formation status clearly have significant impor-tance for speech synthesis and speech understand-ing systems.The research presented in this paper examines anumber of questions concerning the relationshipbetween two information status categories (newand given), and how tokens of associated pitch ac-cent types are realised.
Furthermore the effect offrequency of occurrence is also examined from anexemplar-theoretic perspective.The questions directly addressed in this paperare as follows:1.
How are different tokens of a pitch accenttype realised?Does frequency of occurrence of the pitch ac-cent type play a role?2.
What effect does information status have onrealisations of a pitch accent type?Does frequency of occurrence of the informa-tion status category play a role?3.
Does frequency of occurrence in pitch ac-cents and in information status play a role,i.e.
is there a combined effect?In examining the realisation of pitch accent to-kens, their degree of similarity is the characteristicunder investigation.
Similarity is calculated by de-termining the cosine of the angle between pairs ofpitch accent vector representations (see section 6).The results in this study are examined froman exemplar-theoretic perspective (see section 3).The expectations within that framework are basedupon two different aspects.
Firstly, it is expectedthat, since all exemplars are stored, exemplars ofa type that occur often, offer the speaker a widerselection of exemplars to choose from during pro-duction (Schweitzer and Mo?bius, 2004), i.e.
therealisations are expected to be more variable thanthose of a rare type.
However, another aspect ofExemplar Theory has to be considered, namely en-trenchment (Pierrehumbert, 2001; Bybee, 2006).The central idea here is that frequently occurringbehaviours undergo processes of entrenchment,they become in some sense routine.
Therefore re-alisations of a very frequent type are expected tobe realised similar to each other.
Thus, similarityand variability are expressions of the same charac-teristic: the higher the degree of similarity of pitchaccent tokens, the lower their realisation variabil-ity.728The structure of this paper is as follows: Sec-tion 2 briefly examines previous work on the in-teraction of information status categories and pitchaccents.
Section 3 provides a short introduction toExemplar Theory.
In this study similarity of pitchaccent realisations on syllables, annotated with theinformation status categories of the words they be-long to, is examined using the parametric intona-tion model (Mo?hler, 1998) which is outlined inSection 4.
Section 5 discusses the corpus em-ployed.
Section 6 introduces a general methodol-ogy which is used in the experiments in Sections 7,8 and 9.
Section 10 then presents some discussion,conclusions and opportunities for future research.2 Information Status and IntonationIt is commonly assumed that pitch accents are themain correlate of information status1 in speech(Halliday, 1967).
Generally, accenting is saidto signal novelty while deaccenting signals giveninformation (Brown, 1983), although there iscounter evidence: various studies note given in-formation being accented (Yule, 1980; Bard andAylett, 1999).
Terken and Hirschberg (1994) pointout that new information can also be deaccented.As for the question of which pitch accent type(in terms of ToBI categories (Silverman et al,1992)) is typically assigned to different degrees ofgivenness, Pierrehumbert and Hirschberg (1990)find H?
to be the standard novelty accent for En-glish, a finding which has also been confirmed byBaumann (2006) and Schweitzer et al (2008) forGerman.
Given information on the other hand, ifaccented at all, is found to carry L?
accent in En-glish (Pierrehumbert and Hirschberg, 1990).
Bau-mann (2006) finds deaccentuation to be the mostpreferred realisation for givenness in his experi-mental phonetics studies on German.
However,Baumann (2006) points out that H+L?
has alsobeen found as a marker of givenness in a Germancorpus study.
Previous findings on the corpus usedin the present study found L?H being the typicalmarker for givenness (Schweitzer et al, 2008).Leaving the phonological level and examiningcorrelates of information status in acoustic detail,Kohler (1991) reports that in a falling accent, anearly peak indicates established facts, while a me-dial peak is used to mark novelty.
In a recent1The term information status is used in (Prince, 1992) forthe first time.
Before that the terms givenness, novelty or in-formation structure were used for these concepts.study Ku?gler and Fe?ry (2008) found givenness tolower the high tones of prenuclear pitch accentsand to cancel them out postnuclearly.
These find-ings among others (Ku?gler and Fe?ry, 2008) moti-vate an examination of the acoustic detail of pitchaccent shape across different information statuscategories.The experiments presented here go one step fur-ther, however, in that they also investigate poten-tial exemplar-theoretic effects.3 Exemplar TheoryExemplar Theory is concerned with the idea thatthe acquisition of language is significantly facil-itated by repeated exposure to concrete languageinput, and it has successfully accounted for a num-ber of language phenomena, including diachroniclanguage change and frequency of occurrence ef-fects (Bybee, 2006), the emergence of gram-matical knowledge (Abbot-Smith and Tomasello,2006), syllable duration variability (Schweitzerand Mo?bius, 2004; Walsh et al, 2007), entrench-ment and lenition (Pierrehumbert, 2001), amongothers.
Central to Exemplar Theory are the notionsof exemplar storage, frequency of occurrence, re-cency of occurrence, and similarity.
There is anincreasing body of evidence which indicates thatsignificant storage of language input exemplars,rich in detail, takes place in memory (Johnson,1997; Croot and Rastle, 2004; Whiteside and Var-ley, 1998).
These stored exemplars are then em-ployed in the categorisation of new input percepts.Similarly, production is facilitated by accessingthese stored exemplars.
Computational models ofthe exemplar memory also argue that it is in a con-stant state of flux with new inputs updating it andold unused exemplars gradually fading away (Pier-rehumbert, 2001).Up to now, virtually no exemplar-theoretic re-search has examined pitch accent prosody (butsee Marsi et al (2003) for memory-based predic-tion of pitch accents and prosodic boundaries, andWalsh et al (2008)(discussed below)) and to theauthors?
knowledge this paper represents the firstattempt to examine the relationship between pitchaccent prosody and information status from anexemplar-theoretic perspective.
Given the consid-erable weight of evidence for the influence of fre-quency of occurrence effects in a variety of otherlinguistic domains it seems reasonable to exploresuch effects on pitch accent and information sta-729tus realisations.
For example, what effect mightgivenness have on a frequently/infrequently occur-ring pitch accent?
Does novelty produce a similarresult?The search for possible frequency of occur-rence effects takes place with respect to pitch ac-cent shapes captured by the parametric intonationmodel discussed next.4 The Parametric Representation ofIntonation Events - PaIntEThe model approximates stretches of F0 by em-ploying a phonetically motivated model function(Mo?hler, 1998).
This function consists of the sumof two sigmoids (rising and falling) with a fixedtime delay which is selected so that the peak doesnot fall below 96% of the function?s range.
The re-sulting function has six parameters which describethe contour and were employed in the analysis: pa-rameters a1 and a2 express the gradient of the ac-cent?s rise and fall, parameter b describes the ac-cent?s temporal alignment (which has been shownto be crucial in the description of an accent?s shape(van Santen and Mo?bius, 2000)), c1 and c2 modelthe ranges of the rising and falling amplitude ofthe accent?s contour, respectively, and parameter dexpresses the peak height of the accent.2 These sixparameters are thus appropriate to describe differ-ent pitch accent shapes.For the annotation of intonation the GToBI(S)annotation scheme (Mayer, 1995) was used.
Inearlier versions of PaIntE, the approximation ofthe F0-contour for H?L and H?
was carried out onthe accented and post?accented syllables.
How-ever, for these accents the beginning of the rise islikely to start at the preaccented syllable.
In thecurrent version of PaIntE the window used for theapproximation of the F0-contour for H?L and H?accents has been extended to the preaccented syl-lable, so that the parameters are calculated overthe span of the accented syllables and its immedi-ate neighbours (unless it is followed by a boundarytone which causes the window to end at the end ofthe accented syllable).5 CorpusThe experiments that follow (sections 7, 9 and 8),were carried out on German pitch accents from the2Further information and illustrations concerning the me-chanics of the PaIntE model can be found in Mo?hler andConkie (1998).IMS Radio News Corpus (Rapp, 1998).
This cor-pus was automatically segmented and manually la-belled according to GToBI(S) (Mayer, 1995).
Inthe corpus, 1233 syllables are associated with anL?H accent, 704 with an H?L accent and 162 withan H?
accent.The corpus contains data from three speakers,two female and a male one, but the majority of thedata is produced by the male speaker (888 L?Haccents, 527 H?L accents and 152 H?
accents).
Inorder to maximise the number of tokens, all threespeakers were combined.
Of the analysed data,77.92% come from the male speaker.
However,it is not necessarily the case that the same percent-age of the variability also comes from this speaker:Both, PaIntE and z-scoring (cf.
section 6) nor-malise across speakers, so the contribution fromeach individual speaker is unclear.The textual transcription of the corpus was an-notated with respect to information status usingthe annotation scheme proposed by Riester (2008).In this taxonomy information status categories re-flect the default contexts in which presuppositionsare resolved, which include e. g. discourse context,environment context or encyclopaedic context.The annotations are based solely on the writtentext and follow strict semantic criteria.
Given thattextual information alone (i.e.
without prosodicor speech related information) is not necessarilysufficient to unambiguously determine the infor-mation status associated with a particular word,there are therefore cases where words have mul-tiple annotations, reflecting underspecification ofinformation status.
However, it is important tonote that in all the experiments reported here, onlyunambiguous cases are considered.The rich annotation scheme employed in thecorpus makes establishing inter-annotator agree-ment a time-consuming task which is currently un-derway.
Nevertheless, the annotation process wasset up in a way to ensure a maximal smoothing ofuncertainties.
Texts were independently labelledby two annotators.
Subsequently, a third, more ex-perienced annotator compared the two results and,in the case of discrepancies, took a final decision.In the present study the categories given andnew are examined.
These categories do not rep-resent a binary distinction but are two extremesfrom a set of clearly distinguished categories.
Forthe most part they correspond to the categories tex-tually given and brand-new that are used in Bau-730mann (2006), but their scope is more tightly con-strained.
The information status annotations aremapped to the phonetically transcribed speech sig-nals, from which individual syllable tokens bear-ing information status are derived.Syllables for which one of the PaIntE-parameters was identified as an outlier, were re-moved.
Outliers were defined such that the upper2.5 percentile as well as the lower 2.5 percentileof the data were excluded.
This led to a reducednumber of pitch accent tokens: 1021 L?H accents,571H?L accents and 134H?
accents.
Thus, thereis a continuum of frequency of occurrence, high tolow, from L?H to H?.With respect to information status, 102 L?H ac-cents, 87H?L accents and 21H?
accents were un-ambiguously labelled as new.
For givenness thenumber of tokens is: 114 L?H accents, 44H?L ac-cents and 10H?
accents.6 General MethodologyIn the experiments the general methodology forcalculation of similarity detailed in this sectionwas employed.For tokens of the pitch accent types L?H, H?Land H?, each token was modelled using the fullset of PaIntE parameters.
Thus, each token wasrepresented in terms of a 6-dimensional vector.For each of the pitch accent types the followingsteps were carried out:?
For each 6-dimensional pitch accent categorytoken calculate the z-score value for each di-mension.
The z-score value represents thenumber of standard deviations the value isaway from the mean value for that dimensionand allows comparison of values from differ-ent normal distributions.
The z-score is givenby:z ?
scoredim =valuedim ?meandimsdevdim(1)Hence, at this point each pitch accent is repre-sented by a 6-dimensional vector where eachdimension value is a z-score.?
For each token z-scored vector calculate howsimilar it is to every other z-scored vectorwithin the same pitch accent category, and,in Experiment 2 and 3, with the same infor-mation status value (e.g.
new), using the co-sine of the angle between the vectors.
This isgiven by:cos(~i,~j) =~i ?~j?~i ??
~j ?
(2)where i and j are vectors of the same pitch ac-cent category and ?
represents the dot prod-uct.Each comparison between vectors yields asimilarity score in the range [-1,1], where -1represents high dissimilarity and 1 representshigh similarity.The experiments that follow examine distribu-tions of token similarity.
In order to establishwhether distributions differ significantly two dif-ferent levels of significance were employed, de-pending on the number of pairwise comparisonsperformed.When comparing two distributions (i.e.
per-forming one test), the significance level was set to?
= 0.05.
In those cases where multiple tests werecarried out (Experiment 1 and Experiment 3), thelevel of significance was adjusted (Bonferroni cor-rection) according to the following formula:?
= 1?
(1?
?1)1n (3)where ?1 represents the target significance level(set to 0.05) and n represents the number of testsbeing performed.
The Bonferroni correction is of-ten discussed controversially.
The main criticismconcerns the increased likelihood of type II errorsthat lead to non-significance of actually significantfindings (Pernegger, 1998).
Although this conser-vative adjustment was applied, the statistical testsin this study resulted in significant p-values indi-cating the robustness of the findings.7 Experiment 1: Examining frequency ofoccurrence effects in pitch accentsIn accordance with the general methodology setout in section 6, the PaIntE vectors of pitch ac-cent tokens of types L?H, H?L, and H?
were allz-scored and, within each type, every token wascompared for similarity against every other tokenof the same type, using the cosine of the angle be-tween their vectors.
In essence, this experimentillustrates how similarly pitch accents of the sametype are realised.Figure 1 depicts the results of the analysis.
Itshows the density plot for each distribution ofcosine-similarity comparison values, whereby the731?1.0 ?0.5 0.0 0.5 1.00.00.20.40.60.8Frequency of Occurrence Effects in Pitch AccentsCosine?Similarity Comparison ValuesDensityH*LL*HH*Figure 1: Density plots for similarity within pitch ac-cent types.
All distributions differ significantly from eachother.
There is a trend towards greater similarity from high-frequency L?H to low-frequency H?.distributions can be compared directly ?
irrespec-tive of the different number of data points.An initial observation is that L?H tokens tendto be realised fairly variably, the main portionof the distribution is centred around zero.
To-kens of H?L tend to be produced more simi-larly (i.e.
the distribution is centred around ahigher similarity value), and tokens of H?
moresimilarly again.
These three distributions weretested against each other for significance using theKolmogorov-Smirnov test (?
= 0.017), yieldingp-values of p  0.001.
Thus there are significantdifferences between these distributions.What is particularly noteworthy is that a de-crease in frequency of occurrence across pitch ac-cent types co-occurs significantly with an increasein within-type token similarity.While the differences between the graphed dis-tributions do not appear to be highly markedthe frequency of occurrence effect is neverthelessin keeping with exemplar-theoretic expectationsas posited by Bybee (2006) and Schweitzer andMo?bius (2004), that is, the high frequency of oc-currence entails a large number of stored exem-plars, giving the speaker the choice from amonga large number of production targets.
This widerchoice leads to a broader range of chosen targetsfor different productions and thus to more variablerealisations of tokens of the same type.
?1.0 ?0.5 0.0 0.5 1.00.00.20.40.60.81.0H*L: Frequency of Occurrence Effectsin Information Status CategoriesCosine?Similarity Comparison ValuesDensitygivennewFigure 2: Density plots for similarity of H?L tokens.
To-kens of the low-frequency information status category givendisplay greater similarity to each other than those of the high-frequency information status category new.Walsh et al (2008) also reported significantdifferences between these distributions, however,there did not appear to be a clear frequency of oc-currence effect.
The results in the present studydiffer from their results because the distributionscentre around different ranges of the similarityscale clearly indicating that each accent type be-haves differently in terms of similarity/variabilitybetween the tokens of the respective type.
The dif-ferences between the two findings can be ascribedto the augmented PaIntE model (section 4).Given the results from this experiment, the nextexperiment seeks to establish what relationship, ifany, exists between information status and pitchaccent production variability.8 Experiment 2: Examining frequency ofoccurrence effects in informationstatus categoriesThis experiment was carried out in the same man-ner as Experiment 1 above with the exception thatin this experiment a subset of the corpus was em-ployed: only syllables that were unambiguouslylabelled with either the information status cate-gory new or the category given were included inthe analyses.
The experiment aims to investigatethe effect of information status on the similar-ity/variability of tokens of different pitch accenttypes.
For each pitch accent type, tokens that werelabelled with the information status category new732?1.0 ?0.5 0.0 0.5 1.00.00.20.40.60.8L*H: Frequency of Occurrence Effectsin Information Status CategoriesCosine?Similarity Comparison ValuesDensitygivennewFigure 3: Density plots for similarity of L?H tokens.
Thecurves differ significantly, a trend towards greater similarityis not observable.
The number of tokens for both informationstatus categories is comparable.were compared to tokens labelled as given.
Again,a pairwise Kolmogorov-Smirnov test was appliedfor each comparison (?
= 0.05).
Figure 2 depictsthe results for H?L accents.
The K-S test yielded ahighly significant difference between the two dis-tributions (p  0.001), reflecting the clearly visi-ble difference between the two curves.
It is note-worthy here that for H?L the information statuscategory new is more frequent than the categorygiven.
Indeed, approximately twice as many arelabelled as new than those labelled given.
Figure 2illustrates that new H?L accents are realised morevariably than given ones.
That is, again, an in-crease in frequency of occurrence co-occurs withan increase in similarity, this time at the level ofinformation status.Figure 3 depicts the difference in similar-ity/variability for L?H between new tokens andgiven tokens.
It is clearly visible that the twocurves do not differ as much as those under theH?L condition.
Both curves centre around zero re-flecting the fact that for both types the tokens arevariable.
Although the Kolmogorov-Smirnov testindicates significance (?
= 0.05, p = 0.044), thenature of the impact that information status has inthis case is unclear.Here again an effect of frequency of occurrencemight be the reason for this result.
The high fre-quency of L?H accents in general results in a rel-ative high frequency of given L?H tokens.
So the?1.0 ?0.5 0.0 0.5 1.00.00.20.40.60.8Effect of Information Status Category "new"across Pitch Accent TypesCosine?Similarity Comparison ValuesDensityH*LL*HH*Figure 4: Density plots for similarity of new tokens acrossthree pitch accent types.
In comparison to fig.
1 the trendtowards greater similarity from high-frequency L?H to low-frequency H?
is even more pronounced.token number for both types is similar (102 newL?H tokens vs. 114 given L?H tokens), there ishigh frequency in both cases, hence variability.These results, particularly in the case of H?L(fig.
2) indicate that information status affectspitch accent realisation.
The next experimentcompares the effect across different pitch accenttypes.9 Experiment 3: Examining the effect ofinformation status across pitch accenttypesThis experiment was carried out in the same man-ner as Experiments 1 and 2 above.
For each pitchaccent type, figure 4 depicts within-type pitch ac-cent similarity for tokens unambiguously labelledas new.As with Experiments 1 and 2, frequency ofoccurrence once more appears to play a signifi-cant role.
Again, all Kolmogorov-Smirnov testsyielded significant results (p < 0.017 in all cases).Indeed, the difference between the distributionsof L?H, H?L, and H?
similarity plots appears tobe considerably more prominent than in Experi-ment 1 (see fig.
1).
This indicates that under thecondition of novelty the frequency of occurrenceeffect is more pronounced.
In other words, there isa considerably more noticeable difference acrossthe distributions of L?H, H?L and H?, when nov-733?1.0 ?0.5 0.0 0.5 1.00.00.20.40.60.81.01.2Effect of Information Status Category "given"across Pitch Accent TypesCosine?Similarity Comparison ValuesDensityH*LL*HH*Figure 5: Density plots for similarity of given tokens acrossthree pitch accent types.
Mid-frequency H?L displays greatersimilarity than high-frequency L?H.
For lowest frequency H?
(only 10 tokens) the trend cannot be observed.elty is considered: novelty compounds the fre-quency of occurrence effect.Figure 5 illustrates results of the same analysismethodology but applied to tokens of pitch accentsunambiguously labelled as given.
Once againthere is a considerable difference between the dis-tributions of L?H and H?L tokens (p < 0.017).And again, this difference reflects a more pro-nounced frequency of occurrence effect for giventokens than for all accents pooled (as describedin Experiment 1): the information status categorygiven compounds the frequency of occurrence ef-fect for L?H and H?L.For H?
the result is not as clear as for the twomore frequent accents.
The comparison betweenH?
and L?H results in a significant difference(p < 0.017) whereas the comparison between H?and H?L is slightly above the conservative signif-icance level (p = 0.0186).
Moreover, the dis-tribution is centred between the distributions forL?H and H?L and it is thus not clear how to inter-pret this result with respect to a possible frequencyof occurrence effect.
However, having only teninstances of given H?, the explanatory power ofthese comparisons is questionable.10 DiscussionThe experiments discussed above yield a num-ber of interesting results with implications for re-search in prosody, information status, the interac-tion between the two domains, and for exemplartheory.Returning to the first question posed at the out-set in section 1, it is quite clear from Experiment 1that a certain amount of variability exists whendifferent tokens of the same pitch accent type areproduced.
It is also clear, from the same experi-ment, that the frequency of occurrence of the pitchaccent type does indeed play a role: with an in-crease in frequency comes an increase in vari-ability.
This result is in line with the exemplar-theoretic view that since all exemplars are stored,exemplars of a type that occur often are more vari-able because they offer the speaker a wider se-lection of exemplars to choose from during pro-duction (Schweitzer and Mo?bius, 2004).
How-ever, with respect to entrenchment (Pierrehum-bert, 2001; Bybee, 2006), i.e.
the idea that fre-quently occurring behaviours undergo processesof entrenchment, in Experiment 1 one might ex-pect to see greater similarity in the realisations ofL?H.
However, it is important to note that whiletokens of L?H are not particularly similar to eachother (the bulk of the distribution is around zero(see figure 1)), they are not too dissimilar either.That is, they rest at the midpoint of the similar-ity continuum produced by cosine calculation, inquite a normal looking distribution.
This is notat odds with the idea of entrenchment.
As pro-ductions of a pitch accent type become more fre-quent, the distribution of similarity spreads fromthe right side of the graph (where infrequent andhighly similar H?
tokens lie) leftwards (throughH?L) to the point where the L?H distribution isfound.
Beyond this point tokens are excessivelydifferent.The second question posed in section 1, and ad-dressed in Experiment 2, sought to ascertain theimpact, if any, information status has on pitch ac-cent realisation.
Distributions of given and newH?L similarity scores differed significantly, asdid distributions of given and new L?H similar-ity scores, indicating that information status af-fects realisation.
In other words, for both pitchaccent types, given and new tokens behave dif-ferently.
Concerning the frequency of occurrenceof the information status categories, certainly inthe case of H?L the higher frequency new tokensexhibited more variability.
In the case of L?Hsimilar numbers of new and given tokens, possi-bly due to the high frequency of L?H in general,734?1.0 ?0.5 0.0 0.5 1.00.00.20.40.60.81.0Combined Frequency of Occurrence Effecton L*H and H*LCosine?Similarity Comparison ValuesDensitygiven L*H new L*Hnew H*Lgiven H*LFigure 6: Density plots for similarity of combinations ofinformation status categories given and new with pitch ac-cent types L?H and H?L.
The distributions show a cleartrend towards greater similarity form high-frequency ?givenL?H?
and ?new L?H?
to mid-frequency ?new H?L?
andlow-frequency ?given H?L?.led to visually similar yet significantly differentdistributions.
Once again sensitivity to frequencyof occurrence seems to be present, in line withexemplar-theoretic predictions.The final question concerns the possibility of acombined effect of pitch accent frequency of oc-currence and information status frequency of oc-currence.
Figures 4 and 5 depict a clear com-pounding effect of both information status cate-gories across the different pitch accent types (andtheir inherent frequencies) when compared to fig-ure 1.
Interestingly, the less frequently occurringgiven appears to have a greater impact, particularlyon high frequency L?H.Figure 6 displays all possible combinations ofL?H, H?L, given and new.
H?
is omitted in thisgraph because of the small number of tokens (10given, 21 new) and the resulting lack of explana-tory power.
It is evident that an overall frequencyof occurrence effect can be observed: ?given L?H?and ?new L?H?, which have a similar number ofinstances (114 vs. 102 tokens) both centre aroundzero and are thus the most leftward skewed curvesin the graph.
The distribution of ?new H?L?
(87tokens) shows a trend towards the right hand sideof the graph and thus represents greater similarityof the tokens.
The distribution of similarity valuesfor the least frequent combination of pitch accentand information status, ?given H?L?
(44 tokens),centres between 0.5 and 1.0 and is thus the mostrightward curve in the graph, reflecting the high-est similarity between the tokens.These results highlight an intricate relationshipbetween pitch accent production and informationstatus.
The information status of the word influ-ences not only the type and shape of the pitch ac-cent (Pierrehumbert and Hirschberg, 1990; Bau-mann, 2006; Ku?gler and Fe?ry, 2008; Schweitzer etal., 2008) but also the similarity of tokens within apitch accent type.
Moreover, this effect is well ex-plainable within the framework of Exemplar The-ory as it is subject to frequency of occurrence:tokens of rare types are produced more similar toeach other than tokens of frequent types.In the context of speech technology, unfortu-nately the high variability in highly frequent pitchaccents has a negative consequence, as the correla-tion between a certain pitch accent or a certain in-formation status category and the F0 contour is nota one-to-one relationship.
However, forewarnedis forearmed and perhaps a finer grained contex-tual analysis might yield more context specific so-lutions.11 Future WorkThe methodology outlined in section 6 gives a lu-cid insight into the levels of similarity found inpitch accent realisations.
Further insights, how-ever, could be gleaned from a fine-grained exam-ination of the PaIntE parameters.
For example,which parameters differ and under what conditionswhen examining highly variable tokens?
Informa-tion status evidently plays a role in pitch accentproduction but the contexts in which this takesplace have yet to be examined.
In addition, therole of information structure (focus-background,contrast) also needs to be investigated.
A furtherline of research worth pursuing concerns the im-pact of information status on the temporal struc-ture of spoken utterances and possible compound-ing with frequency of occurrence effects.ReferencesKirsten Abbot-Smith and Michael Tomasello.
2006.Exemplar-learning and schematization in a usage-based account of syntactic acquisition.
The Linguis-tic Review, 23(3):275?290.Ellen G. Bard and M. P. Aylett.
1999.
The dissocia-tion of deaccenting, givenness, and syntactic role in735spontaneous speech.
In Proceedings of ICPhS (SanFrancisco), volume 3, pages 1753?1756.Stefan Baumann.
2006.
The Intonation of Givenness?
Evidence from German., volume 508 of Linguis-tische Arbeiten.
Niemeyer, Tu?bingen.
Ph.D. thesis,Saarland University.Gillian Brown.
1983.
Prosodic structure and thegiven/new distinction.
In Anne Cutler and D. RobertLadd, editors, Prosody: Models and Measurements,pages 67?77.
Springer, New York.Joan Bybee.
2006.
From usage to grammar: Themind?s response to repetition.
Language, 84:529?551.Karen Croot and Kathleen Rastle.
2004.
Is therea syllabary containing stored articulatory plans forspeech production in English?
In Proceedings of the10th Australian International Conference on SpeechScience and Technology (Sydney), pages 376?381.Michael A. K. Halliday.
1967.
Intonation and Gram-mar in British English.
Mouton, The Hague.Keith Johnson.
1997.
Speech perception withoutspeaker normalization: An exemplar model.
InK.
Johnson and J. W. Mullennix, editors, TalkerVariability in Speech Processing, pages 145?165.Academic Press, San Diego.Klaus J. Kohler.
1991.
Studies in german intonation.AIPUK (Univ.
Kiel), 25.Frank Ku?gler and Caroline Fe?ry.
2008.
Pitch accentscaling on given, new and focused constituents ingerman.
Journal of Phonetics.Erwin Marsi, Martin Reynaert, Antal van den Bosch,Walter Daelemans, and Ve?ronique Hoste.
2003.Learning to predict pitch accents and prosodicboundaries in dutch.
In Proceedings of the ACL-2003 Conference (Sapporo, Japan), pages 489?496.Jo?rg Mayer.
1995.
Transcribing German In-tonation ?
The Stuttgart System.
Technicalreport, Universita?t Stuttgart.
http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/phonetik/joerg/labman/STGTsystem.html.Gregor Mo?hler and Alistair Conkie.
1998.
Paramet-ric modeling of intonation using vector quantization.In Third Intern.
Workshop on Speech Synth (JenolanCaves), pages 311?316.Gregor Mo?hler.
1998.
Describing intonation with aparametric model.
In Proceedings ICSLP, volume 7,pages 2851?2854.T.
V. Pernegger.
1998.
What?s wrong with Bonferroniadjustment.
British Medical Journal, 316:1236?1238.Janet Pierrehumbert and Julia Hirschberg.
1990.
Themeaning of intonational contours in the interpreta-tion of discourse.
In P. R. Cohen, J. Morgan, andM.
E. Pollack, editors, Intentions in Communication,pages 271?311.
MIT Press, Cambridge.Janet Pierrehumbert.
2001.
Exemplar dynamics: Wordfrequency, lenition and contrast.
In Joan Bybee andPaul Hopper, editors, Frequency and the Emergenceof Linguistic Structure, pages 137?157.
Amsterdam.Ellen F. Prince.
1992.
The ZPG Letter: Subjects, Def-initeness and Information Status.
In W. C. Mannand S. A. Thompson, editors, Discourse Descrip-tion: Diverse Linguistic Analyses of a Fund-RaisingText, pages 295?325.
Amsterdam.Stefan Rapp.
1998.
Automatisierte Erstellung von Ko-rpora fu?r die Prosodieforschung.
Ph.D. thesis, IMS,Universita?t Stuttgart.
AIMS 4 (1).Arndt Riester.
2008.
A Semantic Explication of In-formation Status and the Underspecification of theRecipients?
Knowledge.
In Atle Gr?nn, editor, Pro-ceedings of Sinn und Bedeutung 12, Oslo.Antje Schweitzer and Bernd Mo?bius.
2004.
Exemplar-based production of prosody: Evidence from seg-ment and syllable durations.
In Speech Prosody2004 (Nara, Japan), pages 459?462.Katrin Schweitzer, Arndt Riester, Hans Kamp, andGrzegorz Dogil.
2008.
Phonological and acousticspecification of information status - a semantic andphonetic analysis.
Poster at ?Experimental and The-oretical Advances in Prosody?, Cornell University.Kim Silverman, Mary Backman, John Pitrelli, MariOstendorf, Colin Wightman, Patti Price, Janet Pier-rehumbert, and Julia Hirschberg.
1992.
Tobi: Astandard for Labeling English Prosody.
In Proceed-ings of ICSLP (Banff, Kanada), volume 2, pages867?870, Banff, Canada.Jacques Terken and Julia Hirschberg.
1994.
Deaccen-tuation of words representing ?given?
information:effects of persistence of grammatical function andsurface position.
Language and Speech, 37:125?145.Jan P. H. van Santen and BerndMo?bius.
2000.
A quan-titative model of F0 generation and alignment.
InA.
Botinis, editor, Intonation?Analysis, Modellingand Technology, pages 269?288.
Kluwer.Michael Walsh, Hinrich Schu?tze, Bernd Mo?bius, andAntje Schweitzer.
2007.
An exemplar-theoretic ac-count of syllable frequency effects.
In Proceedingsof ICPhS (Saarbru?cken), pages 481?484.Michael Walsh, Katrin Schweitzer, Bernd Mo?bius, andHinrich Schu?tze.
2008.
Examining pitch-accentvariability from an exemplar-theoretic perspective.In Proceedings of Interspeech 2008 (Brisbane).Sandra P. Whiteside and Rosemary A. Varley.
1998.Dual-route phonetic encoding: Some acoustic evi-dence.
In Proceedings of ICSLP (Sydney), volume 7,pages 3155?3158.George Yule.
1980.
Intonation and Givenness in Spo-ken Discourse.
Studies in Language, pages 271?286.736
