Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Demonstrations Session, pages 45?48,Athens, Greece, 3 April 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Tool for Multi-Word Expression Extraction in Modern GreekUsing Syntactic ParsingAthina MichouUniversity of GenevaGeneva, SwitzerlandAthina.Michou@unige.chVioleta SeretanUniversity of GenevaGeneva, SwitzerlandVioleta.Seretan@unige.chAbstractThis paper presents a tool for extrac-ting multi-word expressions from cor-pora in Modern Greek, which is used to-gether with a parallel concordancer to aug-ment the lexicon of a rule-based machine-translation system.
The tool is part of alarger extraction system that relies, in turn,on a multilingual parser developed overthe past decade in our laboratory.
Thepaper reviews the various NLP modulesand resources which enable the retrievalof Greek multi-word expressions and theirtranslations: the Greek parser, its lexicaldatabase, the extraction and concordanc-ing system.1 IntroductionIn today?s multilingual society, there is a pressingneed for building translation resources, such aslarge-coverage multilingual lexicons, translationsystems or translation aid tools, especially due tothe increasing interest in computer-assisted trans-lation.This paper presents a tool intended to as-sist translators/lexicographers dealing with Greek1as a source or a target language.
The tooldeals specifically with multi-lexeme lexical items,also called multi-word expressions (henceforthMWEs).
Its main functionalities are: 1) the robustparsing of Greek text corpora and the syntax-baseddetection of word combinations that are likely toconstitute MWEs, and 2) concordance and align-ment functions supporting the manual creation ofmonolingual and bilingual MWE lexicons.The tool relies on a symbolic parsing technol-ogy, and is part of FipsCo, a larger extraction sys-tem (Seretan, 2008) which has previously been1For the sake of simplicity, we will henceforth use theterm Greek to refer to Modern Greek.used to build MWE resources for other languages,including English, French, Spanish, and Italian.Its extension to Greek will ultimately enable theinclusion of this language in the list of languagessupported by an in-house translation system.The paper is structured as follows.
Section 2 in-troduces the Greek parser and its lexical database.Section 3 provides a description of Greek MWEs,including a syntactic classification for these.
Sec-tion 4 presents the extraction tool, and Section 5concludes the paper.2 The Greek parserThe Greek parser is part of Fips, a multilin-gual symbolic parser that deals, among other lan-guages, with English, French, Spanish, Italian,and German (Wehrli, 2007).
The Greek version,FipsGreek (Michou, 2007), has recently reachedan acceptable level of lexical and grammaticalcoverage.Fips relies on generative grammar concepts, andis basically made up of a generic parsing modulewhich can be refined in order to suit the specificneeds of a particular language.
Currently, thereare approximately 60 grammar rules defined forGreek, allowing for the complete parse of about50% of the sentences in a corpus like Europarl(Koehn, 2005), which contains proceedings ofthe European Parliament.
For the remaining sen-tences, partial analyses are instead proposed forthe chunks identified.One of the key components of the parser is its(manually-built) lexicon.
It contains detailed mor-phosyntactic and semantic information, namely,selectional properties, subcategorization informa-tion, and syntactico-semantic features that arelikely to influence the syntactic analysis.The Greek monolingual lexicon presently con-tains about 110000 words corresponding to 1600045lexemes,2 and a limited number of MWEs (about500).
The bilingual lexicon used by our trans-lation system contains slightly more than 8000Greek-French/French-Greek equivalents.3 MWEs in Modern GreekGreek is a language which exhibits a high MWEproductivity, with new compound words beingcreated especially in the science and technologydomains.
Sometimes, existing words are trans-formed in order to denote new concepts; also, nu-merous neologisms are created or borrowed fromother languages.A frequent type of multi-word constructionsin Greek are special noun phrases, called lexicalphrases (Anastasiadi-Symeonidi, 1986) or loosemulti-word compounds (Ralli, 2005):- Adjective+Noun: anoiqt?
?
?lassa(anichti thalassa, ?open sea?),paidik?
qar?
(pediki chara, ?kinder-garten?
);- Noun+NounGEN : z?nh asfale?ac (zo-ni asfalias, ?safety belt?
), f?roceisod?matoc (foros isodimatos,?income tax?
);- Noun+NounNOM (head-complement re-lation): paid?-?a?ma (pedi-thavma,?child prodigy?
), suz?thsh-mara?
?nioc(syzitisi-marathonios, ?marathontalks?)
;- NounNOM+NounNOM (coordina-tion relation): kanap?c-kreb?ti(kanapes-krevati, ?sofa bed?
), gia-tr?c-nosok?moc (yiatros-nosokomos,?doctor-nurse?
).A large body of Greek MWEs constitute collo-cations (typical word associations whose meaningis easy to decode, but whose component items aredifficult to predict), such as katarr?ptw ?na rek?r(kataripto ena rekor, ?to break a record?
),in which the verbal collocate katarr?ptw (?shakedown?)
is unpredictable.
Collocations may occurin a wide range of syntactic types.
Some of theconfigurations taken into account in our work are:- Noun(Subject)+Verb: h suz?thsh l?gei (isizitisi liyi, ?discussion ends?
);2Most of the inflected forms were automatically obtainedthrough morphological generation; that is, the base word wascombined with the appropriate suffixes, according to a giveninflectional paradigm.
A number of 25 inflection classes havebeen defined for Greek nouns, 11 for verbs, and 10 for adjec-tives.- Adjective+Noun: janatik?
poin?
(thanatiki pini, ?death penalty?
);- Verb+Noun(Object): diatr?qw k?nduno(diatrecho kindino, ?run a risk?
);- Verb+Preposition+Noun(Argument):katadik?zw se ?
?nato (katadikazose thanato, ?to sentence to death?
);- Verb+Preposition: prosanatol?zomai proc(prosanatolizome pros, ?to orientto?
);- Noun+Preposition+Noun: protrop?
giaan?ptuxh (protropi yia anaptiksi,?incitement to development?
);- Preposition+Noun: up?
suz?thsh (iposizitisi, ?under discussion?
);- Verb+Adverb: qeirokrot?
jerm?
(xirokroto therma, ?applausewarmly?
);- Adverb+Adjective: genetik?
tropopoih-m?noc (yenetika tropopiimenos,?genetically modified?
);- Adjective+Preposition: exarthm?noc ap?
(eksartimenos apo, ?dependent on?
).In addition, Greek MWEs cover other types ofconstructions, such as:- one-word compounds: erujr?dermoc(erithrodermos, ?red skin?
), luk?skulo(likoskylo, ?wolfhound?
);- adverbial phrases: ek twn prot?rwn (ekton proteron, ?a priori, in principle?
);- idiomatic expressions (whose meaningis difficult to decode): g?nomai qal?
name pat?seic (yinome xali na mepatisis, literally, become a carpet to walkall over; ?be ready to satisfy any wish?
).4 The MWE Extraction ToolMWEs constitute a high proportion of the lexiconof a language, and are crucial for many NLP tasks(Sag et al, 2002).
This section introduces the toolwe developed for augmenting the coverage of ourmonolingual/bilingual MWE lexicons.4.1 ExtractionAs we already mentioned, the Greek MWE extrac-tor is part of FipsCo, a larger extraction systembased on a symbolic parsing technology (Seretan,2008) which we previously applied on text corporain other languages.
The recent development of theGreek parser enabled us to extend it and apply itto Greek.46Figure 1: Screen capture of the parallel concordancer, showing an instance of the collocation epitugq?nwisorrop?a (?strike balance?)
and the aligned context in the target language, English.The extractor is designed as a module which isplugged into the parser.
After a sentence from thesource corpus is parsed, the extractor traverses theoutput structure and identifies as a potential MWEthe words found in one of the syntactic configura-tions listed in Section 3.Once all MWE candidates are collected fromthe corpus, they are divided into subsets accordingto their syntactic configuration.
Then, each subsetundergo a statistical analysis process whose aimis to detect those candidates that are highly cohe-sive.
A strong association between the items ofa candidate indicates that this is likely to consti-tute a collocation.
The strength of association canbe measured with one of the numerous associa-tion measures implemented in our extractor.
Bydefault, the log-likelihood ratio measure (LLR) isproposed, since it was shown to be particularlysuited to language data (Dunning, 1993).In our extractor, the items of each candidate ex-pression represent base word forms (lemmas) andthey are considered in the canonical order impliedby the given syntactic configuration (e.g., for averb-object candidate, the object is postverbal inSVO languages like Greek).
Even if the candidateoccurs in corpus in a different morphosyntactic re-alizations, its various occurrences are successfullyidentified as instances of the same type thanks tothe syntactic analysis performed with the parser.4.2 VisualizationThe extraction tool also provides visualizationfunctions which facilitate the consultation andinterpretation of results by users?e.g., lexi-cographers, terminologists, translators, languagelearners?by displaying them in the original con-text.
The following functions are provided:Filtering and sorting The results which willbe displayed can be selected according to seve-47ral criteria: the syntactic configuration (i.e., userscan select only one or several configurations theyare interested in), the LLR score, the corpus fre-quency (users can specify the limits of the de-sired interval),3 the words involved (users can lookup MWEs containing specific words).
Also, theselected results can be ordered by score or fre-quency, and users can filter them according to therank obtained.Concordance The (filtered) results are dis-played on a concordancing interface, similar to theone shown in Figure 1.
The list on the left showsthe MWE candidates that were extracted.
Whenan item of the list is selected, the text panel onthe right displays the context of its first instancein the source document.
The arrow buttons be-neath allow users to navigate through all the in-stances of that candidate.
The whole content ofthe source document is accessible, and it is auto-matically scrolled to the current instance; the com-ponent words and the sentence in which they occurare highlighted in different colors.Alignment If parallel corpora are available, theresults can be displayed in a sentence-aligned con-text.
That is, the equivalent of the source sen-tence in the target document containing the trans-lation of the source document is also automaticallyfound, highlighted and displayed next to the origi-nal context (see Figure 1).
Thus, users can see howa MWE has previously been translated in a givencontext.Validation The tool also provides functiona-lities allowing users to create a database of manu-ally validated MWEs from among the candidatesdisplayed on the (parallel) concordancing inter-faces.
The database can store either monolin-gual or bilingual entries; most of the informa-tion associated to an entry?such as lexeme in-dexes, syntactic type, source sentence?is auto-matically filled-in by the system.
For bilingual en-tries, a translation must be provided by the user,and this can be easily retrieved manually fromthe target sentence showed in the parallel concor-dancer (thus, for the collocation shown in Figure1, the user can find the English equivalent strikebalance).3Thus, users can specify themselves a threshold (in othersystems it is arbitrarily predefined).5 ConclusionWe presented a MWE extractor with advancedconcordancing functions, which can be usedto semi-automatically build Greek monolin-gual/bilingual MWE lexicons.
It relies on adeep syntactic approach, whose benefits are mani-fold: retrieval of grammatical results, interpre-tation of syntactic constituents in terms of ar-guments, disambiguation of lexemes with multi-ple readings, and grouping of all morphosyntacticvariants of MWEs.Our system is most similar to Termight (Daganand Church, 1994) and TransSearch (Macklovitchet al, 2000).
To our knowledge, it is the first ofthis type for Greek.AcknowledgementsThis work has been supported by the Swiss Na-tional Science Foundation (grant 100012-117944).The authors would like to thank Eric Wehrli for hissupport and useful comments.ReferencesAnna Anastasiadi-Symeonidi.
1986.
The neology in theCommon Modern Greek.
Triandafyllidi?s foundation,Thessaloniki.
In Greek.Ido Dagan and Kenneth Church.
1994.
Termight: Identifyingand translating technical terminology.
In Proceedings ofANLP, pages 34?40, Stuttgart, Germany.Ted Dunning.
1993.
Accurate methods for the statisticsof surprise and coincidence.
Computational Linguistics,19(1):61?74.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpus for statis-tical machine translation.
In Proceedings of MT SummitX, pages 79?86, Phuket, Thailand.Elliott Macklovitch, Michel Simard, and Philippe Langlais.2000.
TransSearch: A free translation memory on theWorld Wide Web.
In Proceedings of LREC 2000, pages1201?1208, Athens, Greece.Athina Michou.
2007.
Analyse syntaxique et traitement au-tomatique du syntagme nominal grec moderne.
In Pro-ceedings of TALN 2007, pages 203?212, Toulouse, France.Angela Ralli.
2005.
Morphology.
Patakis, Athens.
In Greek.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, Ann Copes-take, and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
Multiword expressions:A pain in the neck for NLP.
In Proceedings of CICLING2002, pages 1?15, Mexico City.Violeta Seretan.
2008.
Collocation extraction based on syn-tactic parsing.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Geneva.Eric Wehrli.
2007.
Fips, a ?deep?
linguistic multilingualparser.
In Proceedings of ACL 2007 Workshop on DeepLinguistic Processing, pages 120?127, Prague, Czech Re-public.48
