Proceedings of the EACL 2009 Demonstrations Session, pages 13?16,Athens, Greece, 3 April 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsGOSSIP GALOREA Self-Learning Agent for Exchanging Pop TriviaXiwen Cheng, Peter Adolphs, Feiyu Xu, Hans Uszkoreit, Hong LiDFKI GmbH, Language Technology LabStuhlsatzenhausweg 3, D-66123 Saarbru?cken, Germany{xiwen.cheng,peter.adolphs,feiyu,uszkoreit,lihong}@domain.comAbstractThis paper describes a self-learning soft-ware agent who collects and learns knowl-edge from the web and also exchanges herknowledge via dialogues with the users.The agent is built on top of informationextraction, web mining, question answer-ing and dialogue system technologies, andusers can freely formulate their questionswithin the gossip domain and obtain theanswers in multiple ways: textual re-sponse, graph-based visualization of therelated concepts and speech output.1 IntroductionThe system presented here is developed within theproject Responsive Artificial Situated CognitiveAgents Living and Learning on the Internet (RAS-CALLI) supported by the European CommissionCognitive Systems Programme (IST-27596-2004).The goal of the project is to develop and imple-ment cognitively enhanced artificial agents, usingtechnologies in natural language processing, ques-tion answering, web-based information extraction,semantic web and interaction driven profiling withcognitive modelling (Krenn, 2008).This paper describes a conversational agent?Gossip Galore?, an active self-learning systemthat can learn, update and interpret informationfrom the web, and can make conversations withusers and provide answers to their questions in thedomain of celebrity gossip.
In more detail, byapplying a minimally supervised relation extrac-tion system (Xu et al, 2007; Xu et al, 2008), theagent automatically collects the knowledge fromrelevant websites, and also communicates with theusers using a question-answering engine via a 3Dgraphic interface.This paper is organized as follows.
Section 2gives an overview of the system architecture andFigure 1: Gossip Galore responding to ?Tell mesomething about Carla Bruni!
?presents the design and functionalities of the com-ponents.
Section 3 explains the system setup anddiscusses implementation details, and finally Sec-tion 4 draws conclusions.2 System OverviewFigure 1 shows a use case of the system.
Given aquery ?Tell me something about Carla Bruni?, theapplication would trigger a series of backgroundactions and respond with: ?Here, have a look atthe personal profile of Carla Bruni?.
Meanwhile,the personal profile of Carla Bruni, would be dis-played on the screen.
The design of the interfacereflects the domain of celebrity gossip: the agentis depicted as a young lady in 3D graphics, whocommunicates with users.
As an additional fea-ture, users can access the dialogue memory of thesystem, which simulates the human memory in di-alogues.
An example of the dialogue memory issketched in Figure 2.As shown in Figure 3, the system consists of anumber of components.
In principle, first, a user?squery is linguistically analyzed, and then inter-13DialogueStateDialogueMemoryMM GeneratorResponseHandlerNE RecognizerSpellChecker ParserAnaphoraResolverKnowledgeBaseWebMinerInputInterpreterInputAnalyzerRelationExtractorInformationWrapperNL GeneratorConversationalAgentFigure 3: Agent architecture and interaction of componentsFigure 2: Representation of Social Network in Di-alogue Memorypreted with respect to the context of the dialogue.A Response Handler will then consult the knowl-edge base pre-constructed by extracting relevantinformation from the Web, and pass the answer, inan abstract representation, to a Multimodal Gener-ator, which realizes and presents the answer to theuser in multiple ways.
The main components aredescribed in the following sections.2.1 Knowledge BaseThe knowledge base is automatically built by theWeb Miner.
It contains knowledge regarding prop-erties of persons or groups and their social rela-tionships.
The persons and groups that we concernare celebrities in the entertainment industry (e.g.,singers, bands, or movie stars) and their relatives(e.g., partners) and friends.
Typical properties of aperson include name, gender, birthday, etc., andprofiles of celebrities contain additional proper-ties such as sexual orientation, home pages, stagenames, genres of their work, albums, and prizes.Social relationships between the persons/groupssuch as parent-child, partner, sibling, influenc-ing/influenced and group-member, are also stored.2.2 Web MinerThe Web Miner fetches relevant concepts and theirrelations by means of two technologies: a) infor-mation wrapping for exaction of personal profilesfrom structured and semi-structured web content,and b) a minimally supervised machine learningmethod provided by DARE (Xu et al, 2007; Xuet al, 2008) to acquire relations from free texts.DARE learns linguistic patterns indicating the tar-get semantic relations by taking some relation in-stances as initial seed.
For example, assume thatthe following seed for a parent-child relationshipis given to the DARE system:(1) Seed: ?Angelina Jolie, Shiloh Nouvel Jolie-Pitt,daughter?One sentence that matches the entities men-tioned in the seed above could be (2), and fromwhich the DARE system can derive a linguisticpattern as shown in 3.
(2) Matched sentence: Angelina Jolie and Brad Pittwelcome their new daughter Shiloh Nouvel Jolie-Pitt.
(3) Extracted pattern: ?subject: celebrity?
welcome?mod: ?new daughter??
?object: person?Given the learned pattern, new instances of the?parent-child?
relationship can be automaticallydiscovered, e.g.
:(4) New acquired instances: ?Adam Sandler, SunnyMadeline?
?Cynthia Rodriguez, Ella Alexander?Given the discovered relations among thecelebrities and other people, the system constructsa social network, which is the basis for providinganswers to users?
questions regarding celebrities?relationships.
The network also serves as a re-source for the active dialogue memory of the agentas shown in Figure 2.142.3 Input Analyzer and Input InterpreterThe Input Analyzer is designed as both domainand dialogue context independent.
It relies on sev-eral linguistic analysis tools: 1) a spell checker, 2)a named entity recognizer SProUT (Drozdzynskiet al, 2004), and 3) a syntactic parsing componentfor which we currently employ a fuzzy paraphrasematcher to approximate the output of a deep syn-tactic/semantic parser.In contrast to the Input Analyzer, the Input In-terpreter analyzes the input with respect to thecontext of the dialogue.
It contains two majorcomponents: 1) anaphoric resolution, which referspronouns to previously mentioned entities with thehelp of the dialogue memory, and 2) domain clas-sification, which determines whether the entitiescontained in a user query can be found in the gos-sip knowledge base (cf.
?Carla Bruni?
vs. ?Nico-las Sarkozy?)
and whether the answer focus be-longs to the domain (cf.
?stage name?
vs ?bodyguard?).
For example, a simple factoid query suchas ?Who is Madonna?, an embedded questionslike ?I wonder who Madonna is?, and expressionsof requests and wishes such as ?I?m interested inMadonna?, would share the same answer focus,i.e., the ?personal profile?
of ?Madonna?.
In ad-dition to the simple answer types such as ?personname?, ?location?
and ?date/time?, our system canalso deal with complex answer focus types such as?personal profile?, ?social network?
and ?relationpath?, as well as domain-relevant concepts such as?party affiliation?
or ?sexual orientation?.Finally, the analysis of each query is associatedwith a meaning representation, an answer focusand an expected answer type.2.4 Response HandlerThis component executes the planned action basedon the properties of the answer focus and the en-tities in a query.
In cases where the answer focusor the entities cannot be found in the knowledgebase, the system would still attempt to provide aconstructive answer.
For instance, if a questioncontains a domain-specific answer focus but en-tities unknown to the knowledge base, the agentwill automatically look for alternative knowledgeresources, e.g., Wikipedia.
For example, giventhe question ?Tell me something about NicolasSarkozy!
?, the agent would attempt a Web searchand return the corresponding page on Wikipediaabout ?Nicolas Sarkozy?, even if the knowledgebase does not contain his information since he is apolitician rather than an entertainer.In addition, specific strategies have been devel-oped to deal with negative answers.
For instance,the agent would answer the question: When didMadonna die?, with ?As far as I know, Madonnais still alive.
?, as it cannot find any information re-garding Madonna?s death.2.5 Multimodal GeneratorThe agent (i.e., the young lady in Figure 1) isequipped with multimodal capabilities to inter-act with users.
It can show the results in tex-tual and speech forms, using body gestures, fa-cial expressions, and finally via multimedia out-put to an embedded screen.
We currently employtemplate-based generators for producing both thenatural language utterances and the instructions tothe agent that controls the multimodal communi-cation with the user.2.6 Dialogue StateThe responsibility of this component is to keeptrack of the current state of the dialogue between auser and the agent.
It models the system?s expec-tation of the user?s next action and the system?s re-actions.
For example, if a user misspelled a nameas in the question ?Who is Roby Williams?
?, thesystem would answer with a clarification question:?Did you mean Robbie Williams??
The user isthen expected to react to the question with either?yes?
or ?no?, which would not be interpretable inother dialogue contexts where the user is expectedto ask a question.
The fact that the system asks aclarification question and expects a yes/no answeras well as the repaired question are stored in theDialogue State component.2.7 Dialogue MemoryThis component aims to simulate the cognitive ca-pacity of the memory of a human being: con-struction of a short-time memory and activationof long-time memory (our Knowledge Base).
Itrecords the sequence of all entities mentioned dur-ing the conversation and their respective targetfoci.
Simultaneously, it retrieves all the related in-formation from the Knowledge Base.
In figure 2,the dialogue memory for the three questions ?Tellme something about Carla Bruni.
?, ?Can you tellme some news about her?
?, ?How many kids doesBrad Pitt have??
is shown.
Green and yellow bub-bles are entities mentioned in the dialogue context,15where the yellow one is the last mentioned entity.White bubbles indicate the newest records whichare acquired in the last process of online QA.3 ImplementationThe system uses a client-server architecture.
Theserver is responsible for accepting new connec-tions, managing accounts, processing conversa-tions and passing responses to the clients.
Allthe server-side functions are implemented in Java1.6.
We use Jetty as a web server to deliver mul-timedia representations of an answer and to pro-vide selected functionalities of the system as webservices to our partners.
The knowledge base isstored in a MySQL database whose size is 11MB,and contains information of 38,758 persons in-cluding 16,532 artists and 1,407 music groups.
Asfor the social connection data, there are 14,909parent-child, 16,886 partner, 4,214 sibling, 308influence/influenced and 9,657 group-member re-lational pairs.
The social network is visualizedin JGraph, and speech output is generated by theopen-source speech synthesis system OpenMary(Schro?der and Hunecke, 2007).There are two interfaces realizing the client-side of the system: a 3D software application anda web interface.
The software application usesa 3D computer game engine, and communicateswith the server by messages in an XML formatbased on BML and SSML.
In addition, we providea web interface1, implemented using HTML andJavascript on the browser side, and Java Servletson the server side, offering the same core func-tionality as the 3D client.Both the server and the web client are platformindependent.
The 3D client runs on Windows witha dedicated 3D graphics card.
The recommendedmemory for the server is 1GB.4 ConclusionsThis paper describes a fully implemented softwareapplication, which discovers and learns informa-tion and knowledge from the Web, and communi-cates with users and exchanges gossip trivia withthem.
The system uses many novel technologiesin order to achieve the goal of vividly chatting andinteracting with the users in a fun way.
The tech-nologies include information extraction, questionanswering, dialogue modeling, response planningand multimodal presentation generation.
Please1http://rascalli.dfki.de/live/dialogue.pagerefer to (Xu et al, 2009) for additional detailsabout the ?Gossip Galore?
system.The planned future extensions include the in-tegration of deeper language processing methodsto discover more precise linguistic patterns.
Aprime candidate for this extension is our own deepsyntactic/semantic parser.
Another plan concernsthe required temporal aspects of relations togetherwith credibility checking.
Finally, we plan to ex-ploit the dialogue memory for moving more of thedialogue initiative to the agent.
In cases of miss-ing or negative answers or in cases of pauses onthe user side, the agent can use the active partsof the dialogue memory to propose additional rel-evant information or to guide the user to fruitfulrequests within the range of user?s interests.ReferencesWitold Drozdzynski, Hans-Ulrich Krieger, Jakub Piskorski,Ulrich Scha?fer, and Feiyu Xu.
2004.
Shallow processingwith unification and typed feature structures ?
foundationsand applications.
Ku?nstliche Intelligenz, 1:17?23.Brigitte Krenn.
2008.
Responsive artificial situated cognitiveagents living and learning on the internet, April.
Posterpresented at CogSys 2008.Marc Schro?der and Anna Hunecke.
2007.
Mary tts partici-pation in the Blizzard Challenge 2007.
In Proceedings ofthe Blizzard Challenge 2007, Bonn, Germany.Feiyu Xu, Hans Uszkoreit, and Hong Li.
2007.
A seed-driven bottom-up machine learning framework for extract-ing relations of various complexity.
Proceedings of ACL-2007, pages 584?591.Feiyu Xu, Hans Uszkoreit, and Hong Li.
2008.
Task drivencoreference resolution for relation extraction.
In Proceed-ings of ECAI 2008, Patras, Greece.Feiyu Xu, Peter Adolphs, Hans Uszkoreit, Xiwen Cheng, andHong Li.
2009.
Gossip galore: A conversational webagent for collecting and sharing pop trivia.
In JoaquimFilipe, Ana Fred, and Bernadette Sharp (eds).
Proceed-ings of ICAART 2009, Porto, Portugal.16
