Proceedings of the 12th Conference of the European Chapter of the ACL, pages 130?138,Athens, Greece, 30 March ?
3 April 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsLexical Morphology in Machine Translation: a Feasibility StudyBruno CartoniUniversity of Genevacartonib@gmail.comAbstractThis paper presents a feasibility study for im-plementing lexical morphology principles in amachine translation system in order to solveunknown words.
Multilingual symbolic treat-ment of word-formation is seducing but re-quires an in-depth analysis of every step thathas to be performed.
The construction of aprototype is firstly presented, highlighting themethodological issues of such approach.
Sec-ondly, an evaluation is performed on a largeset of data, showing the benefits and the limitsof such approach.1 IntroductionFormalising morphological information to dealwith morphologically constructed unknownwords in machine translation seems attractive,but raises many questions about the resourcesand the prerequisites (both theoretical and practi-cal) that would make such symbolic treatmentefficient and feasible.
In this paper, we describethe prototype we built to evaluate the feasibilityof such approach.
We focus on the knowledgerequired to build such system and on its evalua-tion.
First, we delimit the issue of neologismsamongst the other unknown words (section 2),and we present the few related work done inNLP research (section 3).
We then explain whyimplementing morphology in the context of ma-chine translation (MT) is a real challenge andwhat kind of aspects need to be taken into ac-count (section 4), and we show that translatingconstructed neologisms is not only a mechanicaldecomposition but requires more fine-grainedanalysis.
We then describe the methodology de-veloped to build up a prototyped translator ofconstructed neologisms (section 5) with all theextensions that have to be made, especially interms of resources.
Finally, we concentrate onthe evaluation of each step of the process and onthe global evaluation of the entire approach (sec-tion 6).
This last evaluation highlights a set ofmethodological criteria that are needed to exploitlexical morphology in machine translation.2 IssuesUnknown words are a problematic issue in anyNLP tool.
Depending on the studies (Ren andPerrault 1992; Maurel 2004), it is estimated thatbetween 5 and 10 % of the words of a text writ-ten in ?standard?
language are unknown to lexi-cal resources.
In a MT context (analysis-transfer-generation), unknown words remain not onlyunanalysed but they cannot be translated, andsometimes they also stop the translation of thewhole sentence.Usually, three main groups of unknown wordsare distinguished: proper names, errors, and ne-ologisms, and the possible solution highly de-pends on the type of unknown word to be solved.In this paper, we concentrate on neologismswhich are constructed following a morphologicalprocess.The processing of unknown ?constructed ne-ologisms?
in NLP can be done by simple guess-ing (based on the sequence of final letters).
Thisoption can be efficient enough when the task isonly tagging, but in a multilingual context (likein MT), dealing with constructed neologismsimplies a transfer and a generation process thatrequire a more complex formalisation and im-plementation.
In the project presented in this pa-per, we propose to implement lexical morphol-ogy phenomena in MT.3 Related workImplementing lexical morphology in a MT con-text has seldom been investigated in the past,probably because many researchers share thefollowing view: ?Though the idea of providingrules for translating derived words may seemattractive, it raises many problems and so it iscurrently more of a research goal for MT than apractical possibility?
(Arnold, Balkan et al1994).
As far as we know, the only related pro-ject is described in (Gdaniec, Manandise et al2001), where they describe a project of imple-mentation of rules for dealing with constructedwords in the IBM MT system.130Even in monolingual contexts, lexical mor-phology is not very often implemented in NLP.Morphological analyzers like the ones describedin (Porter 1980; Byrd 1983; Byrd, Klavans et al1989; Namer 2005) propose more or less deeperlexical analyses, to exploit that dimension of thelexicon.4 Proposed solutionSince morphological processes are regular andexist in many languages, we propose an approachwhere constructed neologisms in source lan-guage (SL) can be analysed and their translationgenerated in a target language (TL) through thetransfer of the constructional information.For example, a constructed neologism in onelanguage (e.g.
ricostruire in Italian) shouldfirstly be analysed, i.e.
find (i) the rule that pro-duced it (in this case <reiteration rule>) and (ii)the lexeme-base which it is constructed on(costruire, with all morphosyntactic and transla-tional information).
Secondly, through a transfermechanism (of both the rule and the base), atranslation can be generated by rebuilding a con-structed word, (in French reconstruire, Eng: torebuild).
On a theoretical side, the whole processis formalised into bilingual Lexeme FormationRules (LFR), as explained below in section 4.3.Although this approach seems to be simpleand attractive, feasibility studies and evaluationshould be carefully performed.
To do so, we builta system to translate neologisms from one lan-guage into another.
In order to delimit the projectand to concentrate on methodological issues, wefocused on the prefixation process and on tworelated languages (Italian and French).
Prefixa-tion is, after suffixation, the most productiveprocess of neologism, and prefixes can be moreeasily processed in terms of character strings.Regarding the language, we choose to deal withthe translation of Italian constructed neologismsinto French.
These two languages are historicallyand morphologically related and are conse-quently more ?neighbours?
in terms of neolo-gism coinage.In the following, we firstly describe preciselythe phenomena that have to be formalized andthen the prototype built up for the experiment.4.1 Phenomena to be formalizedLike in any MT project, the formalisation workhas to face different issues of contrastivity, i.e.highlighting the divergences and the similaritiesbetween the two languages.In the two languages chosen for the experi-ment, few divergences were found in the waythey construct prefixed neologisms.
However, insome cases, although the morphosemantic proc-ess is similar, the item used to build it up (i.e.
theaffixes) is not always the same.
For example, tocoin nouns of the spatial location ?before?,where Italian uses the prefix retro, French usesr?tro and arri?re.
A deeper analysis shows thatItalian retro is used with all types of nouns,whereas in French, r?tro only forms processualnouns (derived from verbs, like r?trovision,r?troprojection).
For the other type of nouns(generally locative nouns), arri?re is used (ar-ri?re-cabine, arri?re-cour).Other problematic issues appear when there ismore than one prefix for the same LFR.
For ex-ample, the rule for ?indeterminate plurality?
pro-vides in both languages a set of two prefixes(multi/pluri in Italian and multi/pluri in French)with no known restrictions for selecting one orthe other (e.g.
both pluridimensionnel and multi-dimensionnel are acceptable in French).
Forthese cases, further empirical research have to beperformed to identify restrictions on the rule.Another important divergence is found in theprefixation of relational adjectives.
Relationaladjectives are derived from nouns and designatea relation between the entity denoted by the nounthey are derived from and the entity denoted bythe noun they modify.
Consequently, in a pre-fixation such as anticostituzionale, the formalbase is a relational adjective (costituzionale), butthe semantic base is the noun the adjective is de-rived from (costituzione).
The constructed wordanticostituzionale can be paraphrased as ?againstthe constitution?.
Moreover, when the relationaladjective does not exist, prefixation is possibleon a nominal base to create an adjective (squadraantidroga).
In cases where the adjective doesexist, both forms are possible and seem to beequally used, like in the Italian collaborazioneinteruniversit?
/ collaborazione interuniversi-taria.
From a contrastive point of view, the pre-fixation of relational adjectives exists in bothlanguages (Italian and French) and in both theselanguages prefixing a noun to create an adjectiveis also possible (anticostituzione (Adj)).
But wenotice an important discrepancy in the possibilityof constructing relational adjectives (a rough es-timation performed on a large bilingual diction-ary (Garzanti IT-FR (2006)) shows that morethan 1 000 Italian relational adjectives have noequivalent in French (and are generally translatedwith a prepositional phrase).131All these divergences require an in-dept analy-sis but can be overcome only if the formalismand the implementation process are done follow-ing a rigorous methodology.4.2 The prototypeIn order to evaluate the approach describedabove and to concretely investigate the ins andouts of such implementation, we built up a proto-type of a machine translation system specializedfor constructed neologisms.
This prototype iscomposed of two modules.
The first one checksevery unknown word to see if it is potentiallyconstructed, and if so, performs a morphologicalanalysis to individualise the lexeme-base and therule that coined it.
The second module is the ac-tual translation module, which analyses the con-structed neologism and generates a possibletranslation.Figure 1: PrototypeThe whole prototype relies on one hand onlexical resources (two monolingual and one bi-lingual) and on a set of bilingual Lexeme Forma-tion Rules (LFR).
These two sets of informationhelps the analysis and the generation steps.
Whena neologism is looked-up, the system checks if itis constructed with one of the LFRs and if thelexeme-base is in the lexicon.
If it is the case, thetransfer brings the relevant morphological andlexical information in the target language.
Thegeneration step constructs the translation equiva-lent, using the information provided by the LFRand the lexical resources.
Consequently, thewhole system relies on the quality of both thelexical resources and the LFR.4.3 Bilingual Lexeme Formation RulesThe whole morphological process in the systemis formalised through bilingual Lexeme Forma-tion Rules.
Their representation is inspired by(Fradin 2003) as shown in figure 2 in the rule ofreiterativity.Such rules match together two monolingualrules (to be read in columns).
Each monolingualrule describes a process that applies a series ofinstructions on the different sections of the lex-eme : the surface section (G and F), the syntacticcategory (SX) and the semantic (S) sections.
Inthis theoretical framework, affixation is only oneof the instructions of the rule (the graphemic andphonological modification), and consequently,affixes are called ?exponent?
of the rule.Italian Frenchinput input(G) Vit Vfr(F) /Vit/ /Vfr/(SX) cat :v cat :v(S) Vit'(...) Vfr'(...) ?
output output(G) riVit reVfr(F) /ri/?/Vit/ /?
?/?/Vfr/(SX) cat :v cat :v(S) reiterativity (Vit'(...)) reiterativity (Vfr'(...))where Vit' = Vfr', translation equivalentThis formalisation is particularly useful in abilingual context for rules that have more thanone prefix in both languages: more than one affixcan be declared in one single rule, the selectionbeing made according to different constraints orrestrictions.
For example, the rule for ?indeter-minate plurality?
explained in section 4.1 can beformalised as follows:Italian Frenchinput input(G) Xit Xfr(F) /Xit/ /Xfr/(SX) cat :n cat :n(S) Xit'(...) Xfr'(...) ?
output output(G) multi/pluriXit multi/pluriXfr(F) /multi/pluri/?/Xit/ /m?lti/plyri/?/Xfr/(SX) cat :n cat :n(S) indet.
plur.
(Xit'(...)) indet.
plur.
(Xfr'(...))where Xit' = Xfr', translation equivalentFigure 3: Bilingual LFR of indeterminate pluralityIn this kind of rules with ?multiple expo-nents?, the two possible prefixes are declared inthe surface section (G and F).
The selection is amonolingual issue and cannot be done at thetheoretical level.Such rules have been formalised and imple-mented for the 56 productive prefixes of Italian(Iacobini 2004)1, with their French translationequivalent.
However, finding the translationequivalent for each rule requires specific studies1i.e.
a, ad, anti, arci, auto, co, contro, de, dis, ex, extra, in,inter, intra, iper, ipo, macro, maxi, mega, meta, micro, mini,multi, neo, non, oltre, onni, para, pluri, poli, post, pre, pro,retro, ri,  s, semi, sopra, sotto, sovra, stra, sub, super, trans,ultra, vice, mono, uni, bi, di, tri, quasi, pseudo.IT neologismFR neologismanalysisLFRgenerationLexicaFigure 2: Bilingual LFR of reiterativity132of the morphological system of both languages ina contrastive perspective.The following section briefly summarises thecontrastive analysis that has been performed toacquire this type of contrastive knowledge.4.4 Knowledge acquisition of bilingual LFRAs in any MT system, the acquisition of bilin-gual knowledge is an important issue.
In mor-phology, the method should be particularly accu-rate to prevent any methodological bias.
To for-malise translation rules for prefixed neologisms,we adopt a meaning-to-form approach, i.e.
dis-covering how a constructed meaning is morpho-logically realised in two languages.We build up a tertium comparationis (a neu-tral platform, see (James 1980) for details) thatconstitute a semantic typology of prefixationprocesses.
This typology aims to be universaland therefore applicable to all the languages con-cerned.
On a practical point of view, the typol-ogy has been built up by summing up variousdescriptions of prefixation in various languages(Montermini 2002; Iacobini 2004; Amiot 2005).We end up with six main classes: location,evaluation, quantitative, modality, negation andingressive.
The classes are then subdivided ac-cording to sub-meanings: for example, locationis subdivided in temporal and spatial, and withinspatial location, a distinction is made betweendifferent positions (before, above, below, infront, ?
).Prefixes of both languages are then literally?projected?
(or classified) onto the tertium.
Foreach terminal sub-class, we have a clear pictureof the prefixes involved in both languages.
Forexample, the LFR presented in figure 1 is theresult of the projection of the Italian prefix (ri)and the French one (re) on the sub-class reitera-tivity, which is a sub-class of modality.At the end of the comparison, we end up withmore than 100 LFRs (one rule can be reiteratedaccording the different input and output catego-ries).
From a computing point of view, con-straints have to be specified and the lexicon hasto be adapted consequently.5 ImplementationImplementation of the LFR is set up as a data-base, from where the program takes the informa-tion to perform the analysis, the transfer and thegeneration of the neologisms.
In our approach,LFRs are simply declared in a tab format data-base, easily accessible and modifiable by theuser, as shown below:Figure 4: Implemented LFRsImplemented LFRs describe (i) the surfaceform of the Italian prefix to be analysed, (ii) thecategory of the base, (iii) the category of the de-rived lexeme (the output), (iv) a reference to therule implied and (v) the French prefix(es) for thegeneration.The surface form in (i) should sometimes takeinto account the different allomorphs of one pre-fix.
Consequently, the rule has to be reiterated inorder to be able to recognize any forms (e.g.
theprefix in has different forms according to the ini-tial letter of the base, and four rules have to beimplemented for the four allomorphs (in, il, im,ir)).
In some other cases, the initial consonant isdoubled, and the algorithm has to take this phe-nomenon into account.In (ii), the information of the category of thebase has been ?overspecified?, to differentiatequalitative and relational adjectives, and deverbalnouns and the other ones (a_rel/a orn_dev/n).
These overspecifications have twoobjectives: optimizing the analysis performance(reducing the noise of homographic characterstrings that look like constructed neologisms butthat are only misspellings - see below in theevaluation section), and refining the analysis, i.e.selecting the appropriate LFR and, consequently,the appropriate translation.To identify relational adjectives and deverbalnouns, the monolingual lexicon that supports theanalysis step has to be extended.
Thereafter, wepresent the symbolic method we used to performsuch extension.5.1 Extension of the monolingual lexiconOur MT prototype relies on lexical resources: itaims at dealing with unknown words that are notin a Reference lexicon and these unknown wordsare analyzed with lexical material that is in thislexicon.From a practical point of view, our prototypeis based on two very large monolingual data-arci a a 2.1.2 archiarci n n 2.1.2 archi[?
]pro a_rel a 1.1.10 propro n a 1.1.10 pro[?
]ri v v 6.1 reri n_dev n 6.1 re[?
]133bases (Mmorph (Bouillon, Lehmann et al 1998))for Italian and French, that contain only morpho-syntactic information, and on one bilingual lexi-con that has been built semi-automatically for theuse of the experiment.
But the monolinguallexica have to be adapted to provide specific in-formation necessary for dealing with morpho-logical process.As stated above, identifying the prefix and thebase is not enough to provide a proper analysisof constructed neologisms which is detailedenough to be translated.
The main informationthat is essential for the achievement of the proc-ess is the category of the base, which has to besometimes ?overspecified?.
Obviously, the Ital-ian reference lexicon does not contain such in-formation.
Consequently, we looked for a simpleway to automatically extend the Italian lexicon.For example, we looked for a way to automati-cally link relational adjectives with their nounbases.Our approach tries to take advantage of onlythe lexicon, without the use of any larger re-sources.
To extend the Italian lexicon, we simplybuilt a routine based on the typical suffixes ofrelational adjectives (in Italian:  -ale,  -are, -ario,-ano, -ico, -ile, -ino, -ivo, -orio, -esco, -asco,-iero, -izio, -aceo (Wandruszka 2004)).
For everyadjective ending with one of these suffixes, theroutine looks up if the potential base correspondsto a noun in the rest of the lexicon (modulo somemorphographemic variations).
For example, theroutine is able to find links between adjectivesand base nouns such as ambientale and ambiente,aziendale and azienda, cortisonica and cortisoneor contestuale and contesto.
Unfortunately, thiskind of automatic implementation does not findlinks between adjectives made from the learnedroot of the noun, (prandiale  pranzo, bellico guerra).This automatic extension has been evaluated.Out of a total of more than 68 000 adjectiveforms in the lexicon, we identified 8 466 rela-tional adjectives.
From a ?recall?
perspective, itis not easy to evaluate the coverage of this exten-sion because of the small number of resourcescontaining relational adjectives that could beused as a gold standard.A similar extension is performed for thedeverbal aspect, for the lexicon should also dis-tinguish deverbal noun.
From a morphologicalpoint of view, deverbalisation can be done troughtwo main productive processes: conversion (acommand  to command) and suffixation.
If thefirst one is relatively difficult to implement, thesecond one can be easily captured using the typi-cal suffixes of such processes.
Consequently, weconsidere that any noun ending with suffixes likeione, aggio,or mento are deverbal.Thanks to this extended lexicon, overspecifiedinput categories (like a_rel for relational ad-jective or n_dev for deverbal noun) can bestated and exploited in the implemented LFR asshown in figure 4.5.2 Applying LFRs to translate neologismsOnce the prototyped MT system was built andthe lexicon adapted, it was applied to a set ofneologisms (see section 6 for details).
For exam-ple, unknown Italian neologisms such as arci-contento, ridescrizione, deitalianizzare, wereautomatically translated in French: archi-content,redescription, d?sitalianiser.The divergences existing in the LFR of <loca-tive position before> are correctly dealt with,thanks to the correct analysis of the base.
Forexample, in the neologism retrobottega, the lex-eme-base is correctly identified as a locativenoun, and the French equivalent is constructedwith the appropriate prefix (arri?re-boutique),while in retrodiffusione, the base is analysed asdeverbal, and the French equivalent is correctlygenerated (r?trodiffusion).For the analysis of relational adjectives, theoverspecification of the LFRs and the extensionof the lexicon are particularly useful when thereis no French equivalent for Italian relational ad-jectives because the corresponding constructionis not possible in the French morphological sys-tem.
For example, the Italian relational adjectiveaziendale (from the noun azienda, Eng: com-pany) has no adjectival equivalent in French.
TheItalian prefixed adjective interaziendale can onlybe translated in French by using a noun as thebase (interentreprise).
This translation equivalentcan be found only if the base noun of the Italianadjective is found (interaziendale, in-ter+aziendale  azienda, azienda = entreprise, interentreprise).
The same process has beenapplied for the translation of precongressuale,post-transfuzionale by pr?congr?s, post-transfusion.Obviously, all the mechanisms formalised inthis prototype should be carefully evaluated.6 EvaluationThe advantages of this approach should be care-fully evaluated from two points of view: the134evaluation of the performance of each step and ofthe feasibility and portability of the system.6.1 corpusAs previously stated, the system is intended tosolve neologisms that are unknown from a lexi-con with LFRs that exploit information containedin the lexicon.
To evaluate the performance ofour system, we built up a corpus of unknownwords by confronting a large Italian corpus fromjournalistic domain (La Repubblica Online(Baroni, Bernardini et al 2004)) with our refer-ence lexicon for this language (see section 4.1above).
We obtained a set of unknown wordsthat contains neologisms, but also proper namesand erroneous items.
This set is submitted to thevarious steps of the system, where constructedneologisms are recognised, analysed and trans-lated.6.2 Evaluation of the performance of theanalysisAs we previously stated, the analysis step canactually be divided into two tasks.
First of all, theprogram has to identify, among the unknownwords, which of them are morphologically con-structed (and so analysable by the LFRs); sec-ondly, the program has to analyse the constructedneologisms, i.e matching them with the correctLFRs and isolating the correct base-words.For the first task, we obtain a list of 42 673potential constructed neologisms.
Amongstthose, there are a number of erroneous words thatare homographic to a constructed neologism.
Forexample, the item progesso, a misspelling ofprogresso (Eng: progress), is erroneously ana-lysed as the prefixation of gesso (eng: plaster)with the LFR in pro.In the second part of the processing, LFRs areconcretely applied to the potential neologisms(i.e.
constraints on categories and on over-specified category, phonological constraints).This stage retains 30 376 neologisms.
A manualevaluation is then performed on these outputs.Globally, 71.18 % of the analysed words are ac-tually neologisms.
But the performance is not thesame for every rule.
Most of them are very effi-cient: among all the rules for the 56 Italian pre-fixes, only 7 cause too many erroneous analyses,and should be excluded - mainly rules with veryshort prefixes (like a, di, s), that cause mistakesdue to homograph.As explained above, some of the rules arestrongly specified, (i.e.
very constrained), so wealso evaluate the consequence of some con-straints, not only in terms of improved perform-ance but also in terms of loss of information.
In-deed, some of the constraints specified in the ruleexclude some neologisms (false negatives).
Forexample, the modality LFRs with co and ri havebeen overspecified, requiring deverbal base-noun(and not just a noun).
Adding this constraint im-proves the performance of the analysis (i.e.
thenumber of correct lexemes analysed), respec-tively from 69.48 % to 96 % and from 91.21 %to 99.65 %.
Obviously, the number of false nega-tives (i.e.
correct neologisms excluded by theconstraint) is very large (between 50 % and 75 %of the excluded items).In this situation, the question is to decidewhether the gain obtained by the constraints (theimproved performance) is more important thanthe un-analysed items.
In this context, we preferto keep the more constrained rule.
Un-analyseditems remain unknown words, and the output ofthe analysis is almost perfect, which is an impor-tant condition for the rest of the process (i.e.transfer and generation).6.3 Evaluation of the performance of thegenerationGeneration can also be evaluated according totwo points of view: the correctness of the gener-ated items, and the improvement brought by thesolved words to the quality of the translated sen-tence.To evaluate the first aspect, many procedurescan be put in place.
The correctness of con-structed words could be evaluated by humanjudges, but this kind of approach would raisemany questions and biases: people that are notexpert of morphology would judge the correct-ness according to their degree of acceptabilitywhich varies between judges and is particularlysensitive when neologism is concerned.
Ques-tions of homogeneity in terms of knowledge ofthe domain and of the language are also raised.Because of these difficulties, we prefer to cen-tre the evaluation on the existence of the gener-ated neologisms in a corpus.
For neologisms, themost adequate corpus is the Internet, even if theuse of such an uncontrolled resource requiressome precautions (see (Fradin, Dal et al 2007)for a complete debate on the use of web re-sources in morphology).Concretely, we use the robot Golf (Thomas2008) that sends each generated neologism auto-matically as a request on a search engine (hereGoogle?)
and reports the number of occurrencesas captured by Google.
This robot can be param-135eterized, for instance by selecting the appropriatelanguage.Because of the uncontrolled aspect of the re-source, we distinguish three groups of reportedfrequencies: 0 occurrence, less than 5 occur-rences and more than 5.
The threshold of 5 helpsto distinguish confirmed existence of neologism(> 5) from unstable appearances (< 5), that areclosed to hapax phenomena.The table below summarizes some results forsome prefixed neologisms.Prefix tested forms 0 occ.
< 5 occ.
> 5 occ.ri  391 8.2 % 5.6 % 86.2 %anti 1120 8.6 % 19.9 % 71.5 %de 114 2.6 % 3.5 % 93.9 %super 951 28 % 30 % 42 %pro 166 6.6 % 29.5 % 63.9 %?Table 1 : Some evaluation resultsGlobally, most of the generated prefixed ne-ologisms have been found in corpus, and most ofthe time with more than 5 occurrences.
Unfounditems are very useful, because they help to pointout difficulties or miss-formalised processes.Most of the unfound neologisms were ill-analysed items in Italian.
Others were due tomisuses of hyphens in the generation.
Indeed, inthe program, we originally implemented the useof the hyphen in French following the estab-lished norm (i.e.
a hyphen is required when theprefix ends with a vowel and the base starts witha vowel).
But following this ?norm?, some formswere not found in corpus (for example antibra-connier (Eng: antipoacher) reports 0 occur-rence).
When re-generated with a hyphen, it re-ports 63 occurrences.
This last point shows thatin neology, usage does not stick always to thenorm.The other problem raised by unknown wordsis that they decrease the quality of the translationof the entire sentence.
To evaluate the impact ofthe translated unknown words on the translatedsentence, we built up a test-suite of sentences,each of them containing one prefixed neologism(in bold in table 2).
We then submitted the sen-tences to a commercial MT system (Systran?
)and recorded the translation and counted thenumber of mistakes (FR1 in table 2 below).
On asecond step, we ?feed?
the lexicon of the transla-tion system with the neologisms and their trans-lation (generated by our prototype) and resubmitthe same sentences to the system (FR2 in table2).For the 60 sentences of the test-suit (21 withan unknown verb, 19 with an unknown adjectiveand 20 with a unknown noun), we then countedthe number of errors before and after the intro-duction of the neologisms in the lexicon, asshown below (errors are underlined).IT Le defiscalizzazioni logiche di 17 Eurosono previsteFR1 Le defiscalizzazioni logiques de 17 Eurosont pr?vus2FR2 Les d?fiscalisations logiques de 17 Eurosont pr?vues0Table 2: Example of a tested sentenceFor a global view of the evaluation, we classi-fied in the table below the number of sentencesaccording to the number of errors ?removed?thanks to the resolution of the unknown word.0 -1 -2 -3Nouns  10 8 2Adjectives  18 1Verbs 2 14 3 2Table 3: Reduction of the number of errors/sentenceMost of the improvements concern only a re-duction of 1, i.e.
only the unknown word hasbeen solved.
But it should be noticed that im-provement is more impressive when the un-known words are nouns or verbs, probably be-cause these categories influence much moreitems in the sentence in terms of agreement.In two cases (involving verbs), errors are cor-rected because of the translation of the unknownwords, but at the same time, two other errors arecaused by it.
This problem comes from the factthat adding new words in the lexicon of the sys-tem requires sometimes more information (suchas valency) to provide a proper syntaxctic gen-eration of the sentence.6.4 Evaluation of feasibility and portabilityThe relatively good results obtained by the proto-type are very encouraging.
They mainly showthat if the analysis step is performed correctly,the rest of the process can be done with not muchfurther work.
But at the end of such a feasibilitystudy, it is useful to look objectively for the con-ditions that make such results possible.The good quality of the result can be ex-plained by the important preliminary work done(i) in the extension/specialisation of the lexicon,and (ii) in the setting up of the LFRs.
The acqui-sition of the contrastive knowledge in a MT con-text is indeed the most essential issue in this kindof approach.
The methodology we proposed herefor setting these LFR proves to be useful for the136linguist to acquire this specific type of knowl-edge.Lexical morphology is often considered as notregular enough to be exploited in NLP.
Theevaluation performed in this study shows that itis not the case, especially in neologism.
But insome cases, it is no use to ask for the impossible,and simply give up implementing the most inef-ficient rules.We also show that the efficient analysis step isprobably the main condition to make the wholesystem work.
This step should be implementedwith as much constraints as possible, to providean output without errors.
Such implementationrequires proper evaluation of the impact of everyconstraint.It should also be stated that such implementa-tion (and especially knowledge acquisition) istime-consuming, and one can legitimately ask ifmachine-learning methods would do the job.
Thenumber of LFRs being relatively restrained inproducing neologisms, we can say that the effortof manual formalisation is worthwhile for thebenefits that should be valuable on the long term.Another aspect of the feasibility is closely relatedto questions of ?interoperability?, because suchimplementation should be done within existingMT programs, and not independently as it wasfor this feasibility study.Other questions of portability should also beconsidered.
As we stated, we chose two morpho-logically related languages on purpose: they pre-sent less divergences to deal with and allow con-centrating on the method.
However, the proposedmethod (especially that contrastive knowledgeacquisition) can clearly be ported to another pairof languages (at least inflexional languages).
Itshould also be noticed that the same approachcan be applied to other types of construction.
Wemainly think here of suffixation, but one canimagine to use LFRs with other elements of for-mation (like combining forms, that tend to bevery ?international?, and consequently the mate-rial for many neologisms).
Moreover, the waythe rules are formalised and the algorithm de-signed allow easy reversibility and modification.7 ConclusionThis feasibility study presents the benefit of im-plementing lexical morphology principles in aMT system.
It presents all the issues raised byformalization and implementation, and shows ina quantitative manner how those principles areuseful to partly solve unknown words in machinetranslation.From a broader perspective, we show thebenefits of such implementation in a MT system,but also the method that should be used to for-malise this special kind of information.
We alsoemphasize the need for in-dept work of knowl-edge acquisition before actually building up thesystem, especially because contrastive morpho-logical data are not as obvious as other linguisticdimensions.Moreover, the evaluation step clearly statesthat the analysis module is the most importantissue in dealing with lexical morphology in mul-tilingual context.The multilingual approach of morphology alsopaves the way for other researches, either in rep-resentation of word-formation or in exploitationof multilingual dimension in NLP systems.References(2006) Garzanti francese : francese-italiano, italiano-francese.
I grandi dizionari Garzanti.
Milano, Gar-zanti Linguistica.Amiot, D. (2005) Between compounding and deriva-tion: elements of word formation corresponding toprepositions.
Morphology and its Demarcations.
W.U.
Dressler, R. Dieter and F. Rainer.
Amsterdam,John Benjamins Publishing Company: 183-195.Arnold, D., L. Balkan, R. L. Humphrey, S. Meijer andL.
Sadler (1994) Machine Translation.
An Intro-ductory Guide.
Manchester, NCC Blackwell.Baroni, M., S. Bernardini, F. Comastri, L. Piccioni, A.Volpi, G. Aston and M. Mazzoleni (2004) Introduc-ing the "la Repubblica" corpus: A large, annotated,TEI(XML)-compliant corpus of newspaper Italian.Proceedings of LREC 2004, Lisbon: 1771-1774.Bouillon, P., S. Lehmann, S. Manzi and D. Petitpierre(1998) D?veloppement de lexiques ?
grande?chelle.
Proceedings of Colloque des journ?es LTTde TUNIS, Tunis: 71-80.Byrd, R. J.
(1983) Word Formation in Natural Lan-guage Processing Systems.
IJCAI: 704-706.Byrd, R. J., J. L. Klavans, M. Aronoff and F. Anshen(1989) Computer methods for morphological analy-sis Proceedings of 24th annual meeting on Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, New York,New York Association for Computational Linguis-tics: 120-127Fradin, B., G. Dal, N. Grabar, F. Namer, S. Lignon,D.
Tribout and P. Zweigenbaum (2007) Remarquessur l'usage des corpus en morphologie.
Langages167.Gdaniec, C., E. Manandise and M. C. McCord (2001)Derivational Morphology to the Rescue: How ItCan Help Resolve Unfound Words in MT.
Procee-dings of MT Summit VIII, Santiago Di Compostel-la: 127-131.137Iacobini, C. (2004) I prefissi.
La formazione delleparole in italiano.
M. Grossmann and F. Rainer.T?bingen, Niemeyer: 99-163.James, C. (1980) Contrastive analysis.
Burnt Mill,Longman.Maurel, D. (2004) Les mots inconnus sont-ils desnoms propres?
Proceedings of JADT 2004, Lou-vain-la-NeuveMontermini, F. (2002) Le syst?me pr?fixal en italiencontemporain, Universit?
de Paris X-Nanterre, Uni-versit?
degli Studi di Bologna: 355.Namer, F. (2005) La morphologie constructionnelledu fran?ais et les propri?t?s s?mantiques du lexi-que: traitement automatique et mod?lisation.
UMR7118 ATILF.
Nancy, Universit?
de Nancy 2.Porter, M. (1980) An algorithm for suffix stripping.Program 14: 130-137.Ren, X. and F. Perrault (1992) The Typology of Un-known Words: An experimental Study of Two Cor-pora.
Proceedings of Coling 92, Nantes: 408-414.Thomas, C. (2008) "Google Online Lexical Frequen-cies User Manual (Version 0.9.0)."
Retrieved04.02.2008, fromhttp://www.craigthomas.ca/docs/golf-0.9.0-manual.pdf.Wandruszka, U.
(2004) Derivazione aggettivale.
LaFormazione delle Parole in Italiano.
M. Grossmanand F. Rainer.
T?bingen, Niemeyer.138
