Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 747?756,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsMidge: Generating Image Descriptions From Computer VisionDetectionsMargaret Mitchell?Xufeng Han?Jesse Dodge?
?Alyssa Mensch?
?Amit Goyal?
?Alex Berg?Kota Yamaguchi?Tamara Berg?Karl Stratos?Hal Daume?
III???U.
of Aberdeen and Oregon Health and Science University, m.mitchell@abdn.ac.uk?
Stony Brook University, {aberg,tlberg,xufhan,kyamagu}@cs.stonybrook.edu??U.
of Maryland, {hal,amit}@umiacs.umd.edu?Columbia University, stratos@cs.columbia.edu??U.
of Washington, dodgejesse@gmail.com, ?
?MIT, acmensch@mit.eduAbstractThis paper introduces a novel generationsystem that composes humanlike descrip-tions of images from computer vision de-tections.
By leveraging syntactically in-formed word co-occurrence statistics, thegenerator filters and constrains the noisydetections output from a vision system togenerate syntactic trees that detail whatthe computer vision system sees.
Resultsshow that the generation system outper-forms state-of-the-art systems, automati-cally generating some of the most naturalimage descriptions to date.1 IntroductionIt is becoming a real possibility for intelligent sys-tems to talk about the visual world.
New ways ofmapping computer vision to generated languagehave emerged in the past few years, with a fo-cus on pairing detections in an image to words(Farhadi et al 2010; Li et al 2011; Kulkarni etal., 2011; Yang et al 2011).
The goal in connect-ing vision to language has varied: systems havestarted producing language that is descriptive andpoetic (Li et al 2011), summaries that add con-tent where the computer vision system does not(Yang et al 2011), and captions copied directlyfrom other images that are globally (Farhadi et al2010) and locally similar (Ordonez et al 2011).A commonality between all of these ap-proaches is that they aim to produce natural-sounding descriptions from computer vision de-tections.
This commonality is our starting point:We aim to design a system capable of producingnatural-sounding descriptions from computer vi-sion detections that are flexible enough to becomemore descriptive and poetic, or include likely in-The bus by the road with a clear blue skyFigure 1: Example image with generated description.formation from a language model, or to be shortand simple, but as true to the image as possible.Rather than using a fixed template capable ofgenerating one kind of utterance, our approachtherefore lies in generating syntactic trees.
Weuse a tree-generating process (Section 4.3) simi-lar to a Tree Substitution Grammar, but preserv-ing some of the idiosyncrasies of the Penn Tree-bank syntax (Marcus et al 1995) on which moststatistical parsers are developed.
This allows usto automatically parse and train on an unlimitedamount of text, creating data-driven models thatflesh out descriptions around detected objects in aprincipled way, based on what is both likely andsyntactically well-formed.An example generated description is given inFigure 1, and example vision output/natural lan-guage generation (NLG) input is given in Fig-ure 2.
The system (?Midge?)
generates descrip-tions in present-tense, declarative phrases, as ana?
?ve viewer without prior knowledge of the pho-tograph?s content.1Midge is built using the following approach:An image processed by computer vision algo-rithms can be characterized as a triple <Ai, Bi,Ci>, where:1Midge is available to try online at:http://recognition.cs.stonybrook.edu:8080/?mitchema/midge/.747stuff: sky .999id: 1atts: clear:0.432, blue:0.945grey:0.853, white:0.501 ...b. box: (1,1 440,141)stuff: road .908id: 2atts: wooden:0.722 clear:0.020 ...b. box: (1,236 188,94)object: bus .307id: 3atts: black:0.872, red:0.244 ...b. box: (38,38 366,293)preps: id 1, id 2: by id 1, id 3: by id 2, id 3: belowFigure 2: Example computer vision output and natu-ral language generation input.
Values correspond toscores from the vision detections.?
Ai is the set of object/stuff detections withbounding boxes and associated ?attribute?detections within those bounding boxes.?
Bi is the set of action or pose detections as-sociated to each ai ?
Ai.?
Ci is the set of spatial relationships that holdbetween the bounding boxes of each pairai, aj ?
Ai.Similarly, a description of an image can be char-acterized as a triple <Ad, Bd, Cd> where:?
Ad is the set of nouns in the description withassociated modifiers.?
Bd is the set of verbs associated to each ad ?Ad.?
Cd is the set of prepositions that hold be-tween each pair of ad, ae ?
Ad.With this representation, mapping <Ai, Bi, Ci>to <Ad, Bd, Cd> is trivial.
The problem thenbecomes: (1) How to filter out detections thatare wrong; (2) how to order the objects so thatthey are mentioned in a natural way; (3) how toconnect these ordered objects within a syntacti-cally/semantically well-formed tree; and (4) howto add further descriptive information from lan-guage modeling alone, if required.Our solution lies in usingAi andAd as descrip-tion anchors.
In computer vision, object detec-tions form the basis of action/pose, attribute, andspatial relationship detections; therefore, in ourapproach to language generation, nouns for theobject detections are used as the basis for the de-scription.
Likelihood estimates of syntactic struc-ture and word co-occurrence are conditioned onobject nouns, and this enables each noun head ina description to select for the kinds of structures ittends to appear in (syntactic constraints) and theother words it tends to occur with (semantic con-straints).
This is a data-driven way to generatelikely adjectives, prepositions, determiners, etc.,taking the intersection of what the vision systempredicts and how the object noun tends to be de-scribed.2 BackgroundOur approach to describing images starts witha system from Kulkarni et al(2011) that com-poses novel captions for images in the PASCALsentence data set,2 introduced in Rashtchian etal.
(2010).
This provides multiple object detec-tions based on Felzenszwalb?s mixtures of multi-scale deformable parts models (Felzenszwalb etal., 2008), and stuff detections (roughly, massnouns, things like sky and grass) based on linearSVMs for low level region features.Appearance characteristics are predicted usingtrained detectors for colors, shapes, textures, andmaterials, an idea originally introduced in Farhadiet al(2009).
Local texture, Histograms of Ori-ented Gradients (HOG) (Dalal and Triggs, 2005),edge, and color descriptors inside the boundingbox of a recognized object are binned into his-tograms for a vision system to learn to recognizewhen an object is rectangular, wooden, metal,etc.
Finally, simple preposition functions are usedto compute the spatial relations between objectsbased on their bounding boxes.The original Kulkarni et al(2011) system gen-erates descriptions with a template, filling in slotsby combining computer vision outputs with textbased statistics in a conditional random field topredict the most likely image labeling.
Template-based generation is also used in the recent Yang etal.
(2011) system, which fills in likely verbs andprepositions by dependency parsing the human-written UIUC Pascal-VOC dataset (Farhadi et al2010) and selecting the dependent/head relationwith the highest log likelihood ratio.Template-based generation is useful for auto-matically generating consistent sentences, how-ever, if the goal is to vary or add to the text pro-duced, it may be suboptimal (cf.
Reiter and Dale(1997)).
Work that does not use template-basedgeneration includes Yao et al(2010), who gener-ate syntactic trees, similar to the approach in this2http://vision.cs.uiuc.edu/pascal-sentences/748Kulkarni et al This is a pic-ture of three persons, one bot-tle and one diningtable.
Thefirst rusty person is beside thesecond person.
The rusty bot-tle is near the first rusty per-son, and within the colorfuldiningtable.
The second per-son is by the third rusty per-son.
The colorful diningtableis near the first rusty person,and near the second person,and near the third rusty person.Kulkarni et al This isa picture of two potted-plants, one dog and oneperson.
The black dog isby the black person, andnear the second featheredpottedplant.Yang et al Three peopleare showing the bottle on thestreetYang et al The person issitting in the chair in theroomMidge: people with a bottle atthe tableMidge: a person in blackwith a black dog by pottedplantsFigure 3: Descriptions generated by Midge, Kulkarniet al(2011) and Yang et al(2011) on the same images.Midge uses the Kulkarni et al(2011) front-end, and sooutputs are directly comparable.paper.
However, their system is not automatic, re-quiring extensive hand-coded semantic and syn-tactic details.
Another approach is provided inLi et al(2011), who use image detections to se-lect and combine web-scale n-grams (Brants andFranz, 2006).
This automatically generates de-scriptions that are either poetic or strange (e.g.,?tree snowing black train?
).A different line of work transfers captions ofsimilar images directly to a query image.
Farhadiet al(2010) use <object,action,scene> triplespredicted from the visual characteristics of theimage to find potential captions.
Ordonez et al(2011) use global image matching with local re-ordering from a much larger set of captioned pho-tographs.
These transfer-based approaches resultin natural captions (they are written by humans)that may not actually be true of the image.This work learns and builds from these ap-proaches.
Following Kulkarni et aland Li et althe system uses large-scale text corpora to esti-mate likely words around object detections.
Fol-lowing Yang et al the system can hallucinatelikely words using word co-occurrence statisticsalone.
And following Yao et al the system aimsblack, blue, brown, colorful, golden, gray,green, orange, pink, red, silver, white, yel-low, bare, clear, cute, dirty, feathered, flying,furry, pine, plastic, rectangular, rusty, shiny,spotted, striped, woodenTable 1: Modifiers used to extract training corpus.for naturally varied but well-formed text, generat-ing syntactic trees rather than filling in a template.In addition to these tasks, Midge automaticallydecides what the subject and objects of the de-scription will be, leverages the collected word co-occurrence statistics to filter possible incorrect de-tections, and offers the flexibility to be as de-scriptive or as terse as possible, specified by theuser at run-time.
The end result is a fully au-tomatic vision-to-language system that is begin-ning to generate syntactically and semanticallywell-formed descriptions with naturalistic varia-tion.
Example descriptions are given in Figures 4and 5, and descriptions from other recent systemsare given in Figure 3.The results are promising, but it is important tonote that Midge is a first-pass system through thesteps necessary to connect vision to language ata deep syntactic/semantic level.
As such, it usesbasic solutions at each stage of the process, whichmay be improved: Midge serves as an illustrationof the types of issues that should be handled toautomatically generate syntactic trees from visiondetections, and offers some possible solutions.
Itis evaluated against the Kulkarni et alsystem, theYang et alsystem, and human-written descrip-tions on the same set of images in Section 5, andis found to significantly outperform the automaticsystems.3 Learning from Descriptive TextTo train our system on how people describe im-ages, we use 700,000 (Flickr, 2011) images withassociated descriptions from the dataset in Or-donez et al(2011).
This is separate from ourevaluation image set, consisting of 840 PASCALimages.
The Flickr data is messier than datasetscreated specifically for vision training, but pro-vides the largest corpus of natural descriptions ofimages to date.We normalize the text by removing emoticonsand mark-up language, and parse each captionusing the Berkeley parser (Petrov, 2010).
Onceparsed, we can extract syntactic information forindividual (word, tag) pairs.749a cow with sheep with a gray sky people with boats a brown cow people atgreen grass by the road a wooden tableFigure 4: Example generated outputs.Awkward Prepositions Incorrect Detectionsa person boats under a black bicycle at the sky a yellow bus cows by black sheepon the dog the sky a green potted plant with people by the roadFigure 5: Example generated outputs: Not quite rightWe compute the probabilities for differentprenominal modifiers (shiny, clear, glowing, ...)and determiners (a/an, the, None, ...) given ahead noun in a noun phrase (NP), as well as theprobabilities for each head noun in larger con-structions, listed in Section 4.3.
Probabilities areconditioned only on open-class words, specifi-cally, nouns and verbs.
This means that a closed-class word (such as a preposition) is never used togenerate an open-class word.In addition to co-occurrence statistics, theparsed Flickr data adds to our understanding ofthe basic characteristics of visually descriptivetext.
Using WordNet (Miller, 1995) to automati-cally determine whether a head noun is a physicalobject or not, we find that 92% of the sentenceshave no more than 3 physical objects.
This in-forms generation by placing a cap on how manyobjects are mentioned in each descriptive sen-tence: When more than 3 objects are detected,the system splits the description over several sen-tences.
We also find that many of the descriptionsare not sentences as well (tagged as S, 58% of thedata), but quite commonly noun phrases (taggedas NP, 28% of the data), and expect that the num-ber of noun phrases that form descriptions will bemuch higher with domain adaptation.
This alsoinforms generation, and the system is capable ofgenerating both sentences (contains a main verb)and noun phrases (no main verb) in the final im-age description.
We use the term ?sentence?
in therest of this paper to refer to both kinds of complexphrases.4 GenerationFollowing Penn Treebank parsing guidelines(Marcus et al 1995), the relationship betweentwo head nouns in a sentence can usually be char-acterized among the following:1. prepositional (a boy on the table)2. verbal (a boy cleans the table)3. verb with preposition (a boy sits on the table)4. verb with particle (a boy cleans up the table)5. verb with S or SBAR complement (a boysees that the table is clean)The generation system focuses on the first threekinds of relationships, which capture a wide rangeof utterances.
The process of generation is ap-proached as a problem of generating a semanti-cally and syntactically well-formed tree based onobject nouns.
These serve as head noun anchorsin a lexicalized syntactic derivation process thatwe call tree growth.Vision detections are associated to a {tagword} pair, and the model fleshes out the tree de-tails around head noun anchors by utilizing syn-tactic dependencies between words learned fromthe Flickr data discussed in Section 3.
The anal-ogy of growing a tree is quite appropriate here,where nouns are bundles of constraints akin toseeds, giving rise to the rest of the tree based onthe lexicalized subtrees in which the nouns arelikely to occur.
An example generated tree struc-ture is shown in Figure 6, with noun anchors inbold.750NPPPNPNNtableDTtheINatNPPPNPNNbottleDTaINwithNPNNpeopleDT-Figure 6: Tree generated from tree growth process.Midge was developed using detections run onFlickr images, incorporating action/pose detec-tions for verbs as well as object detections fornouns.
In testing, we generate descriptions forthe PASCAL images, which have been used inearlier work on the vision-to-language connection(Kulkarni et al 2011; Yang et al 2011), and al-lows us to compare systems directly.
Action andpose detection for this data set still does not workwell, and so the system does not receive these de-tections from the vision front-end.
However, thesystem can still generate verbs when action andpose detectors have been run, and this frameworkallows the system to ?hallucinate?
likely verbalconstructions between objects if specified at run-time.
A similar approach was taken in Yang et al(2011).
Some examples are given in Figure 7.We follow a three-tiered generation process(Reiter and Dale, 2000), utilizing content determi-nation to first cluster and order the object nouns,create their local subtrees, and filter incorrect de-tections; microplanning to construct full syntactictrees around the noun clusters, and surface real-ization to order selected modifiers, realize them aspostnominal or prenominal, and select final out-puts.
The system follows an overgenerate-and-select approach (Langkilde and Knight, 1998),which allows different final trees to be selectedwith different settings.4.1 Knowledge BaseMidge uses a knowledge base that stores modelsfor different tasks during generation.
These mod-els are primarily data-driven, but we also includea hand-built component to handle a small set ofrules.
The data-driven component provides thesyntactically informed word co-occurrence statis-tics learned from the Flickr data, a model for or-dering the selected nouns in a sentence, and amodel to change computer vision attributes to at-tribute:value pairs.
Below, we discuss the threemain data-driven models within the generationUnordered Orderedbottle, table, person ?
person, bottle, tableroad, sky, cow ?
cow, road, skyFigure 8: Example nominal orderings.pipeline.
The hand-built component contains plu-ral forms of singular nouns, the list of possiblespatial relations shown in Table 3, and a map-ping between attribute values and modifier sur-face forms (e.g., a green detection for person is tobe realized as the postnominal modifier in green).4.2 Content Determination4.2.1 Step 1: Group the NounsAn initial set of object detections must first besplit into clusters that give rise to different sen-tences.
If more than 3 objects are detected in theimage, the system begins splitting these into dif-ferent noun groups.
In future work, we aim tocompare principled approaches to this task, e.g.,using mutual information to cluster similar nounstogether.
The current system randomizes whichnouns appear in the same group.4.2.2 Step 2: Order the NounsEach group of nouns are then ordered to deter-mine when they are mentioned in a sentence.
Be-cause the system generates declarative sentences,this automatically determines the subject and ob-jects.
This is a novel contribution for a generalproblem in NLG, and initial evaluation (Section5) suggests it works reasonably well.To build the nominal ordering model, we useWordNet to associate all head nouns in the Flickrdata to all of their hypernyms.
A description isrepresented as an ordered set [a1...an] where eachap is a noun with position p in the set of headnouns in the sentence.
For the position pi of eachhypernym ha in each sentence with n head nouns,we estimate p(pi|n, ha).During generation, the system greedily maxi-mizes p(pi|n, ha) until all nouns have been or-dered.
Example orderings are shown in Figure 8.This model automatically places animate objectsnear the beginning of a sentence, which followspsycholinguistic work in object naming (Braniganet al 2007).4.2.3 Step 3: Filter Incorrect AttributesFor the system to be able to extend coverage asnew computer vision attribute detections becomeavailable, we develop a method to automatically751A person sitting on a sofa Cows grazing Airplanes flying A person walking a dogFigure 7: Hallucinating: Creating likely actions.
Straightforward to do, but can often be wrong.COLOR purple blue green red white ...MATERIAL plastic wooden silver ...SURFACE furry fluffy hard soft ...QUALITY shiny rust dirty broken ...Table 2: Example attribute classes and values.group adjectives into broader attribute classes,3and the generation system uses these classes whendeciding how to describe objects.
To group adjec-tives, we use a bootstrapping technique (Kozarevaet al 2008) that learns which adjectives tend toco-occur, and groups these together to form an at-tribute class.
Co-occurrence is computed usingcosine (distributional) similarity between adjec-tives, considering adjacent nouns as context (i.e.,JJ NN constructions).
Contexts (nouns) for adjec-tives are weighted using Pointwise Mutual Infor-mation and only the top 1000 nouns are selectedfor every adjective.
Some of the learned attributeclasses are given in Table 2.In the Flickr corpus, we find that each attribute(COLOR, SIZE, etc.
), rarely has more than a singlevalue in the final description, with the most com-mon (COLOR) co-occurring less than 2% of thetime.
Midge enforces this idea to select the mostlikely word v for each attribute from the detec-tions.
In a noun phrase headed by an object noun,NP{NN noun}, the prenominal adjective (JJ v) foreach attribute is selected using maximum likeli-hood.4.2.4 Step 4: Group PluralsHow to generate natural-sounding spatial rela-tions and modifiers for a set of objects, as opposedto a single object, is still an open problem (Fu-nakoshi et al 2004; Gatt, 2006).
In this work, weuse a simple method to group all same-type ob-jects together, associate them to the plural formlisted in the KB, discard the modifiers, and re-turn spatial relations based on the first recognized3What in computer vision are called attributes are calledvalues in NLG.
A value like red belongs to a COLOR at-tribute, and we use this distinction in the system.member of the group.4.2.5 Step 5: Gather Local Subtrees AroundObject Nouns1 2NPNNnJJ* ?DT{0,1} ?
SVP{VBZ} ?NP{NN n}3 4NPVP{VB(G|N)} ?NP{NN n}NPPP{IN} ?NP{NN n}5 6PPNP{NN n}IN ?VPPP{IN} ?VB(G|N|Z) ?7VPNP{NN n}VB(G|N|Z) ?Figure 9: Initial subtree frames for generation, present-tense declarative phrases.
?
marks a substitution site,* marks ?
0 sister nodes of this type permitted, {0,1}marks that this node can be included of excluded.Input: set of ordered nouns, Output: trees preservingnominal ordering.Possible actions/poses and spatial relationshipsbetween objects nouns, represented by verbs andprepositions, are selected using the subtree frameslisted in Figure 9.
Each head noun selects for itslikely local subtrees, some of which are not fullyformed until the Microplanning stage.
As an ex-ample of how this process works, see Figure 10,which illustrates the combination of Trees 4 and5.
For simplicity, we do not include the selectionof further subtrees.
The subject noun duck se-lects for prepositional phrases headed by differentprepositions, and the object noun grass selectsfor prepositions that head the prepositional phrasein which it is embedded.
Full PP subtrees are cre-ated during Microplanning by taking the intersec-tion of both.The leftmost noun in the sequence is given arightward directionality constraint, placing it asthe subject of the sentence, and so it will only se-752a over b a above b b below a b beneath a a by b b by a a on b b under ab underneath a a upon b a over ba by b a against b b against a b around a a around b a at b b at a a beside bb beside a a by b b by a a near b b near a b with a a with ba in b a in b b outside a a within b a by b b by aTable 3: Possible prepositions from bounding boxes.Subtree frames:NPPP{IN} ?NP{NN n1}PPNP{NN n2}IN ?Generated subtrees:NPPPINabove, on, byNPNNduckPPNPNNgrassINon, by, overCombined trees:NPPPNPNNgrassINonNPNNduckNPPPNPNNgrassINbyNPNNduckFigure 10: Example derivation.lect for trees that expand to the right.
The right-most noun is given a leftward directionality con-straint, placing it as an object, and so it will onlyselect for trees that expand to its left.
The noun inthe middle, if there is one, selects for all its localsubtrees, combining first with a noun to its rightor to its left.
We now walk through the deriva-tion process for each of the listed subtree frames.Because we are following an overgenerate-and-select approach, all combinations above a proba-bility threshold ?
and an observation cutoff ?
arecreated.Tree 1:Collect all NP?
(DT det) (JJ adj)* (NN noun)and NP?
(JJ adj)* (NN noun) subtrees, where:?
p((JJ adj)|(NN noun)) > ?
for each adj?
p((DT det)|JJ, (NN noun)) > ?, and the proba-bility of a determiner for the head noun is higherthan the probability of no determiner.Any number of adjectives (including none) maybe generated, and we include the presence or ab-sence of an adjective when calculating which de-terminer to include.The reasoning behind the generation of thesesubtrees is to automatically learn whether to treata given noun as a mass or count noun (not taking adeterminer or taking a determiner, respectively) oras a given or new noun (phrases like a sky soundunnatural because sky is given knowledge, requir-ing the definite article the).
The selection of de-terminer is not independent of the selection of ad-jective; a sky may sound unnatural, but a blue skyis fine.
These trees take the dependency betweendeterminer and adjective into account.Trees 2 and 3:Collect beginnings of VP subtrees headed by(VBZ verb), (VBG verb), and (VBN verb), no-tated here as VP{VBX verb}, where:?
p(VP{VBX verb}|NP{NN noun}=SUBJ) > ?Tree 4:Collect beginnings of PP subtrees headed by (INprep), where:?
p(PP{IN prep}|NP{NN noun}=SUBJ) > ?Tree 5:Collect PP subtrees headed by (IN prep) withNP complements (OBJ) headed by (NN noun),where:?
p(PP{IN prep}|NP{NN noun}=OBJ) > ?Tree 6:Collect VP subtrees headed by (VBX verb) withembedded PP complements, where:?
p(PP{IN prep}|VP{VBX verb}=SUBJ) > ?Tree 7:Collect VP subtrees headed by (VBX verb) withembedded NP objects, where:?
p(VP{VBX verb}|NP{NN noun}=OBJ) > ?4.3 Microplanning4.3.1 Step 6: Create Full TreesIn Microplanning, full trees are created by tak-ing the intersection of the subtrees created in Con-tent Determination.
Because the nouns are or-dered, it is straightforward to combine the sub-trees surrounding a noun in position 1 with sub-trees surrounding a noun in position 2.
Two753VPVP* ?NPNP ?CCandNP ?Figure 11: Auxiliary trees for generation.further trees are necessary to allow the subtreesgathered to combine within the Penn Treebanksyntax.
These are given in Figure 11.
If twonouns in a proposed sentence cannot be combinedwith prepositions or verbs, we backoff to combinethem using (CC and).Stepping through this process, all nouns willhave a set of subtrees selected by Tree 1.
Prepo-sitional relationships between nouns are createdby substituting Tree 1 subtrees into the NP nodesof Trees 4 and 5, as shown in Figure 10.
Verbalrelationships between nouns are created by substi-tuting Tree 1 subtrees into Trees 2, 3, and 7.
Verbwith preposition relationships are created betweennouns by substituting the VBX node in Tree 6with the corresponding node in Trees 2 and 3 togrow the tree to the right, and the PP node in Tree6 with the corresponding node in Tree 5 to growthe tree to the left.
Generation of a full tree stopswhen all nouns in a group are dominated by thesame node, either an S or NP.4.4 Surface RealizationIn the surface realization stage, the system se-lects a single tree from the generated set of pos-sible trees and removes mark-up to produce a fi-nal string.
This is also the stage where punctua-tion may be added.
Different strings may be gen-erated depending on different specifications fromthe user, as discussed at the beginning of Section4 and shown in the online demo.
To evaluate thesystem against other systems, we specify that thesystem should (1) not hallucinate likely verbs; and(2) return the longest string possible.4.4.1 Step 7: Get Final Tree, Clear Mark-UpWe explored two methods for selecting a finalstring.
In one method, a trigram language modelbuilt using the Europarl (Koehn, 2005) data withstart/end symbols returns the highest-scoring de-scription (normalizing for length).
In the secondmethod, we limit the generation system to selectthe most likely closed-class words (determiners,prepositions) while building the subtrees, over-generating all possible adjective combinations.The final string is then the one with the mostwords.
We find that the second method producesdescriptions that seem more natural and variedthan the n-gram ranking method for our develop-ment set, and so use the longest string method inevaluation.4.4.2 Step 8: Prenominal Modifier OrderingTo order sets of selected adjectives, we use thetop-scoring prenominal modifier ordering modeldiscussed in Mitchell et al(2011).
This is an n-gram model constructed over noun phrases thatwere extracted from an automatically parsed ver-sion of the New York Times portion of the Giga-word corpus (Graff and Cieri, 2003).
With thisin place, blue clear sky becomes clear blue sky,wooden brown table becomes brown wooden ta-ble, etc.5 EvaluationEach set of sentences is generated with ?
(likeli-hood cutoff) set to .01 and ?
(observation countcutoff) set to 3.
We compare the system againsthuman-written descriptions and two state-of-the-art vision-to-language systems, the Kulkarni et al(2011) and Yang et al(2011) systems.Human judgments were collected using Ama-zon?s Mechanical Turk (Amazon, 2011).
Wefollow recommended practices for evaluating anNLG system (Reiter and Belz, 2009) and for run-ning a study on Mechanical Turk (Callison-Burchand Dredze, 2010), using a balanced design witheach subject rating 3 descriptions from each sys-tem.
Subjects rated their level of agreement ona 5-point Likert scale including a neutral mid-dle position, and since quality ratings are ordinal(points are not necessarily equidistant), we evalu-ate responses using a non-parametric test.
Partici-pants that took less than 3 minutes to answer all 60questions and did not include a humanlike ratingfor at least 1 of the 3 human-written descriptionswere removed and replaced.
It is important to notethat this evaluation compares full generation sys-tems; many factors are at play in each system thatmay also influence participants?
perception, e.g.,sentence length (Napoles et al 2011) and punc-tuation decisions.The systems are evaluated on a set of 840images evaluated in the original Kulkarni et al(2011) system.
Participants were asked to judgethe statements given in Figure 12, from StronglyDisagree to Strongly Agree.754Grammaticality Main Aspects Correctness Order HumanlikenessHuman 4 (3.77, 1.19) 4 (4.09, 0.97) 4 (3.81, 1.11) 4 (3.88, 1.05) 4 (3.88, 0.96)Midge 3 (2.95, 1.42) 3 (2.86, 1.35) 3 (2.95, 1.34) 3 (2.92, 1.25) 3 (3.16, 1.17)Kulkarni et al2011 3 (2.83, 1.37) 3 (2.84, 1.33) 3 (2.76, 1.34) 3 (2.78, 1.23) 3 (3.13, 1.23)Yang et al2011 3 (2.95, 1.49) 2 (2.31, 1.30) 2 (2.46, 1.36) 2 (2.53, 1.26) 3 (2.97, 1.23)Table 4: Median scores for systems, mean and standard deviation in parentheses.
Distance between points on therating scale cannot be assumed to be equidistant, and so we analyze results using a non-parametric test.GRAMMATICALITY:This description is grammatically correct.MAIN ASPECTS:This description describes the main aspects of thisimage.CORRECTNESS:This description does not include extraneous or in-correct information.ORDER:The objects described are mentioned in a reasonableorder.HUMANLIKENESS:It sounds like a person wrote this description.Figure 12: Mechanical Turk prompts.We report the scores for the systems in Table4.
Results are analyzed using the non-parametricWilcoxon Signed-Rank test, which uses medianvalues to compare the different systems.
Midgeoutperforms all recent automatic approaches onCORRECTNESS and ORDER, and Yang et alad-ditionally on HUMANLIKENESS and MAIN AS-PECTS.
Differences between Midge and Kulkarniet alare significant at p< .01; Midge and Yang etal.
at p< .001.
For all metrics, human-written de-scriptions still outperform automatic approaches(p < .001).These findings are striking, particularly be-cause Midge uses the same input as the Kulka-rni et alsystem.
Using syntactically informedword co-occurrence statistics from a large corpusof descriptive text improves over state-of-the-art,allowing syntactic trees to be generated that cap-ture the variation of natural language.6 DiscussionMidge automatically generates language that is asgood as or better than template-based systems,tying vision to language at a syntactic/semanticlevel to produce natural language descriptions.Results are promising, but, there is more work tobe done: Evaluators can still tell a difference be-tween human-written descriptions and automati-cally generated descriptions.Improvements to the generated language arepossible at both the vision side and the languageside.
On the computer vision side, incorrect ob-jects are often detected and salient objects are of-ten missed.
Midge does not yet screen out un-likely objects or add likely objects, and so pro-vides no filter for this.
On the language side, like-lihood is estimated directly, and the system pri-marily uses simple maximum likelihood estima-tions to combine subtrees.
The descriptive cor-pus that informs the system is not parsed witha domain-adapted parser; with this in place, thesyntactic constructions that Midge learns will bet-ter reflect the constructions that people use.In future work, we hope to address these issuesas well as advance the syntactic derivation pro-cess, providing an adjunction operation (for ex-ample, to add likely adjectives or adverbs basedon language alone).
We would also like to incor-porate meta-data ?
even when no vision detectionfires for an image, the system may be able to gen-erate descriptions of the time and place where animage was taken based on the image file alone.7 ConclusionWe have introduced a generation system that usesa new approach to generating language, tying asyntactic model to computer vision detections.Midge generates a well-formed description of animage by filtering attribute detections that are un-likely and placing objects into an ordered syntac-tic structure.
Humans judge Midge?s output to bethe most natural descriptions of images generatedthus far.
The methods described here are promis-ing for generating natural language descriptionsof the visual world, and we hope to expand andrefine the system to capture further linguistic phe-nomena.8 AcknowledgementsThanks to the Johns Hopkins CLSP summerworkshop 2011 for making this system possible,and to reviewers for helpful comments.
Thiswork is supported in part by Michael Collins andby NSF Faculty Early Career Development (CA-REER) Award #1054133.755ReferencesAmazon.
2011.
Amazon mechanical turk: Artificialartificial intelligence.Holly P. Branigan, Martin J. Pickering, and MikihiroTanaka.
2007.
Contributions of animacy to gram-matical function assignment and word order duringproduction.
Lingua, 118(2):172?189.Thorsten Brants and Alex Franz.
2006.
Web 1T 5-gram version 1.Chris Callison-Burch and Mark Dredze.
2010.
Creat-ing speech and language data with Amazon?s Me-chanical Turk.
NAACL 2010 Workshop on Creat-ing Speech and Language Data with Amazon?s Me-chanical Turk.Navneet Dalal and Bill Triggs.
2005.
Histograms oforiented gradients for human detections.
Proceed-ings of CVPR 2005.Ali Farhadi, Ian Endres, Derek Hoiem, and DavidForsyth.
2009.
Describing objects by their at-tributes.
Proceedings of CVPR 2009.Ali Farhadi, Mohsen Hejrati, Mohammad AminSadeghi, Peter Young, Cyrus Rashtchian, JuliaHockenmaier, and David Forsyth.
2010.
Every pic-ture tells a story: generating sentences for images.Proceedings of ECCV 2010.Pedro Felzenszwalb, David McAllester, and Deva Ra-maman.
2008.
A discriminatively trained, mul-tiscale, deformable part model.
Proceedings ofCVPR 2008.Flickr.
2011. http://www.flickr.com.
Accessed1.Sep.11.Kotaro Funakoshi, Satoru Watanabe, NaokoKuriyama, and Takenobu Tokunaga.
2004.Generating referring expressions using perceptualgroups.
Proceedings of the 3rd INLG.Albert Gatt.
2006.
Generating collective spatial refer-ences.
Proceedings of the 28th CogSci.David Graff and Christopher Cieri.
2003.
English Gi-gaword.
Linguistic Data Consortium, Philadelphia,PA.
LDC Catalog No.
LDC2003T05.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel cor-pus for statistical machine translation.
MT Summit.http://www.statmt.org/europarl/.Zornitsa Kozareva, Ellen Riloff, and Eduard Hovy.2008.
Semantic class learning from the web withhyponym pattern linkage graphs.
Proceedings ofACL-08: HLT.Girish Kulkarni, Visruth Premraj, Sagnik Dhar, Sim-ing Li, Yejin Choi, Alexander C. Berg, and TamaraBerg.
2011.
Baby talk: Understanding and gener-ating image descriptions.
Proceedings of the 24thCVPR.Irene Langkilde and Kevin Knight.
1998.
Gener-ation that exploits corpus-based statistical knowl-edge.
Proceedings of the 36th ACL.Siming Li, Girish Kulkarni, Tamara L. Berg, Alexan-der C. Berg, and Yejin Choi.
2011.
Composingsimple image descriptions using web-scale n-grams.Proceedings of CoNLL 2011.Mitchell Marcus, Ann Bies, Constance Cooper, MarkFerguson, and Alyson Littman.
1995.
Treebank IIbracketing guide.George A. Miller.
1995.
WordNet: A lexicaldatabase for english.
Communications of the ACM,38(11):39?41.Margaret Mitchell, Aaron Dunlop, and Brian Roark.2011.
Semi-supervised modeling for prenomi-nal modifier ordering.
Proceedings of the 49thACL:HLT.Courtney Napoles, Benjamin Van Durme, and ChrisCallison-Burch.
2011.
Evaluating sentence com-pression: Pitfalls and suggested remedies.
ACL-HLT Workshop on Monolingual Text-To-Text Gen-eration.Vicente Ordonez, Girish Kulkarni, and Tamara L Berg.2011.
Im2text: Describing images using 1 millioncaptioned photographs.
Proceedings of NIPS 2011.Slav Petrov.
2010.
Berkeley parser.
GNU GeneralPublic License v.2.Cyrus Rashtchian, Peter Young, Micah Hodosh, andJulia Hockenmaier.
2010.
Collecting image anno-tations using amazon?s mechanical turk.
Proceed-ings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Workshop on Creat-ing Speech and Language Data with Amazon?s Me-chanical Turk.Ehud Reiter and Anja Belz.
2009.
An investiga-tion into the validity of some metrics for automat-ically evaluating natural language generation sys-tems.
Computational Linguistics, 35(4):529?558.Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale.
1997.
Building ap-plied natural language generation systems.
Journalof Natural Language Engineering, pages 57?87.Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale.
2000.
Building NaturalLanguage Generation Systems.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press.Yezhou Yang, Ching Lik Teo, Hal Daume?
III, andYiannis Aloimonos.
2011.
Corpus-guided sen-tence generation of natural images.
Proceedings ofEMNLP 2011.Benjamin Z. Yao, Xiong Yang, Liang Lin, Mun WaiLee, and Song-Chun Zhu.
2010.
I2T: Image pars-ing to text description.
Proceedings of IEEE 2010,98(8):1485?1508.756
