Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 686?695,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsFramework of Semantic Role Assignment based on Extended LexicalConceptual Structure: Comparison with VerbNet and FrameNetYuichiroh Matsubayashi?
Yusuke Miyao?
Akiko Aizawa?
?, National Institute of Informatics, Japan{y-matsu,yusuke,aizawa}@nii.ac.jpAbstractWidely accepted resources for semanticparsing, such as PropBank and FrameNet,are not perfect as a semantic role label-ing framework.
Their semantic roles arenot strictly defined; therefore, their mean-ings and semantic characteristics are un-clear.
In addition, it is presupposed thata single semantic role is assigned to eachsyntactic argument.
This is not necessarilytrue when we consider internal structures ofverb semantics.
We propose a new frame-work for semantic role annotation whichsolves these problems by extending the the-ory of lexical conceptual structure (LCS).By comparing our framework with that ofexisting resources, including VerbNet andFrameNet, we demonstrate that our ex-tended LCS framework can give a formaldefinition of semantic role labels, and thatmultiple roles of arguments can be repre-sented strictly and naturally.1 IntroductionRecent developments of large semantic resourceshave accelerated empirical research on seman-tic processing (Ma`rquez et al 2008).
Specif-ically, corpora with semantic role annotations,such as PropBank (Kingsbury and Palmer, 2002)and FrameNet (Ruppenhofer et al 2006), are in-dispensable resources for semantic role labeling.However, there are two topics we have to carefullytake into consideration regarding role assignmentframeworks: (1) clarity of semantic role meaningsand (2) the constraint that a single semantic roleis assigned to each syntactic argument.While these resources are undoubtedly invalu-able for empirical research on semantic process-Sentence [John] threw [a ball] [from the window] .Affection Agent PatientMovement Source Theme Source/PathPropBank Arg0 Arg1 Arg2VerbNet Agent Theme SourceFrameNet Agent Theme SourceTable 1: Examples of single role assignments with ex-isting resources.ing, current usage of semantic labels for SRL sys-tems is questionable from a theoretical viewpoint.For example, most of the works on SRL haveused PropBank?s numerical role labels (Arg0 toArg5).
However, the meanings of these numbersdepend on each verb in principle and PropBankdoes not expect semantic consistency, namely onArg2 to Arg5.
Moreover, Yi et al(2007) explic-itly showed that Arg2 to Arg5 are semanticallyinconsistent.
The reason why such labels havebeen used in SRL systems is that verb-specificroles generally have a small number of instancesand are not suitable for learning.
However, it isnecessary to avoid using inconsistent labels sincethose labels confuse machine learners and can bea cause of low accuracy in automatic process-ing.
In addition, clarity of the definition of rolesare particularly important for users to rationallyknow how to use each role in their applications.For this reasons, well-organized and generalizedlabels grounded in linguistic characteristics areneeded in practice.
Semantic roles of FrameNetand VerbNet (Kipper et al 2000) are used moreconsistently to some extent, but the definition ofthe roles is not given in a formal manner and theirsemantic characteristics are unclear.Another somewhat related problem of existingannotation frameworks is that it is presupposed686that a single semantic role is assigned to each syn-tactic argument.1In fact, one syntactic argumentcan play multiple roles in the event (or events) ex-pressed by a verb.
For example, Table 1 shows asentence containing the verb ?throw?
and seman-tic roles assigned to its arguments in each frame-work.
The table shows that each framework as-signs a single role, such as Arg0 and Agent, toeach syntactic argument.
However, we can ac-quire information from this sentence that Johnis an agent of the throwing event (the ?Affec-tion?
row), as well as a source of the movementevent of the ball (the ?Movement?
row).
Existingframeworks of assigning single roles simply ig-nore such information that verbs inherently havein their semantics.
We believe that giving a cleardefinition of multiple argument roles would bebeneficial not only as a theoretical framework butalso for practical applications that require detailedmeanings derived from secondary roles.This issue is also related to fragmentation andthe unclear definition of semantic roles in theseframeworks.
As we exemplify in this paper, mul-tiple semantic characteristics are conflated in asingle role label in these resources due to the man-ner of single-role assignment.
This means that se-mantic roles of existing resources are not mono-lithic and inherently not mutually independent,but they share some semantic characteristics.The aim of this paper is more on theoreti-cal discussion for role-labeling frameworks ratherthan introducing a new resource.
We developeda framework of verb lexical semantics, which isan extension of the lexical conceptual structure(LCS) theory, and compare it with other exist-ing frameworks which are used in VerbNet andFrameNet, as an annotation scheme of SRL.
LCSis a decomposition-based approach to verb se-mantics and describes a meaning by composinga set of primitive predicates.
The advantage ofthis approach is that primitive predicates and theircompositions are formally defined.
As a result,we can give a strict definition of semantic rolesby grounding them to lexical semantic structuresof verbs.
In fact, we define semantic roles as ar-gument slots in primitive predicates.
With this ap-1To be precise, FrameNet permits multiple-role assign-ment, while it does not perform this systematically as weshow in Table 1.
It mostly defines a single role label for acorresponding syntactic argument, that plays multiple rolesin several sub-events in a verb.proach, we demonstrate that some sort of seman-tic characteristics that VerbNet and FrameNet in-formally/implicitly describe in their roles can begiven formal definitions and that multiple argu-ment roles can be represented strictly and natu-rally by extending the LCS theory.In the first half of this paper, we define our ex-tended LCS framework and describe how it givesa formal definition of roles and solves the problemof multiple roles.
In the latter half, we discussthe analysis of the empirical data we collectedfor 60 Japanese verbs and also discuss theoreti-cal relationships with the frameworks of existingresources.
We discuss in detail the relationshipsbetween our role labels and VerbNet?s thematicroles.
We also describe the relationship betweenour framework and FrameNet, with regards to thedefinitions of the relationships between semanticframes.2 Related worksThere have been several attempts in linguisticsto assign multiple semantic properties to one ar-gument.
Gruber (1965) demonstrated the dis-pensability of the constraint that an argumenttakes only one semantic role, with some concreteexamples.
Rozwadowska (1988) suggested anapproach of feature decomposition for semanticroles using her three features of change, cause,and sentient, and defined typical thematic rolesby combining these features.
This approach madeit possible for us to classify semantic propertiesacross thematic roles.
However, Levin and Rap-paport Hovav (2005) argued that the number ofcombinations using defined features is usuallylarger than the actual number of possible com-binations; therefore, feature decomposition ap-proaches should predict possible feature combi-nations.Culicover and Wilkins (1984) divided theirroles into two groups, action and perceptionalroles, and explained that dual assignment of rolesalways involves one role from each set.
Jackend-off (1990) proposed an LCS framework for rep-resenting the meaning of a verb by using severalprimitive predicates.
Jackendoff also stated thatan LCS represents two tiers in its structure, actiontier and thematic tier, which are similar to Culi-cover and Wilkins?s two sets.
Essentially, thesetwo approaches distinguished roles related to ac-tion and change, and successfully restricted com-6872664cause(affect(i,j), go(j,264from(locate(in(i)))fromward(locate(at(k)))toward(locate(at(l)))375))3775Figure 1: LCS of the verb throw.binations of roles by taking a role from each set.Dorr (1997) created an LCS-based lexical re-source as an interlingual representation for ma-chine translation.
This framework was also usedfor text generation (Habash et al 2003).
How-ever, the problem of multiple-role assignment wasnot completely solved on the resource.
As acomparison of different semantic structures, Dorr(2001) and Hajic?ova?
and Kuc?erova?
(2002) ana-lyzed the connection between LCS and PropBankroles, and showed that the mapping between LCSand PropBank roles was many to many correspon-dence and roles can map only by comparing awhole argument structure of a verb.
Habash andDorr (2001) tried to map LCS structures into the-matic roles by using their thematic hierarchy.3 Multiple role expression using lexicalconceptual structureLexical conceptual structure is an approach to de-scribe a generalized structure of an event or staterepresented by a verb.
A meaning of a verb is rep-resented as a structure composed of several prim-itive predicates.
For example, the LCS structurefor the verb ?throw?
is shown in Figure 1 andincludes the predicates cause, affect, go, from,fromward, toward, locate, in, and at.
The argu-ments of primitive predicates are filled by core ar-guments of the verb.
This type of decompositionapproach enables us to represent a case that onesyntactic argument fills multiple slots in the struc-ture.
In Figure 1, the argument i appears twice inthe structure: as the first argument of affect andthe argument in from.The primitives are designed to represent a fullor partial action-change-state chain, which con-sists of a state, a change in or maintaining of astate, or an action that changes/maintains a state.Table 2 shows primitives that play important rolesto represent that chain.
Some primitives embedother primitives as their arguments and the seman-tics of the entire structure of an LCS structureis calculated according to the definition of eachprimitive.
For instance, the LCS structure in Fig-Predicates Semantic Functionsstate(x, y) First argument is in state specified bysecond argument.cause(x, y) Action in first argument causes changespecified in second argument.act(x) First argument affects itself.affect(x, y) First argument affects second argument.react(x, y) First argument affects itself, due to theeffect from second argument.go(x, y) First argument changes according to thepath described in the second argument.from(x) Starting point of certain change event.fromward(x) Direction of starting point.via(x) Pass point of certain change event.toward(x) Direction of end point.to(x) End point of certain change event.along(x) Linear-shaped path of change event.Table 2: Major primitive predicates and their semanticfunctions.ure 1 represents the action changing the state of j.The inner structure of the second argument of gorepresents the path of the change.The overall definition of our extended LCSframework is shown in Figure 2.2 Basically, ourdefinition is based on Jackendoff?s LCS frame-work (1990), but performed some simplificationsand added extensions.
The modification is per-formed in order to increase strictness and gen-erality of representation and also a coverage forvarious verbs appearing in a corpus.
The maindifferences between the two LCS frameworks areas follows.
In our extended LCS framework, (i)the possible combinations of cause, act, affect,react, and go are clearly restricted, (ii) multipleactions or changes in an event can be describedby introducing a combination function (comb forshort), (iii) GO, STAY and INCH in Jackendoff?stheory are incorporated into one function go, and(iv) most of the change-of-state events are repre-sented as a metaphor using a spatial transition.The idea of a comb function comes from a nat-ural extension of Jackendoff?s EXCH function.In our case, comb is not limited to describinga counter-transfer of the main event but can de-scribe subordinate events occurring in relation tothe main event.3 We can also describe multiple2Here we omitted the attributes taken by each predicate,in order to simplify the explanation.
We also omitted anexplanation for lower level primitives, such as STATE andPLACE groups, which are not necessarily important for thetopic of this paper.3In our extended LCS theory, we can describe multiple688LCS =24EVENT+combhEVENTi*35STATE =8>>><>>>:belocate(PLACE)orient(PLACE)extent(PLACE)connect(arg)9>>>=>>>;EVENT =2666666666666666648>>><>>>:state(arg, STATE)go(arg, PATH)cause(act(arg1), go(arg1, PATH))cause(affect(arg1, arg2), go(arg2, PATH))cause(react(arg1, arg2), go(arg1, PATH))9>>>=>>>;manner(constant)?mean(constant)?instrument(constant)?purpose(EVENT)*377777777777777775PLACE =8>>>>>>>>><>>>>>>>>>:in(arg)on(arg)cover(arg)fit(arg)inscribed(arg)beside(arg)around(arg)near(arg)inside(arg)at(arg)9>>>>>>>>>=>>>>>>>>>;PATH=2666666664from(STATE)?fromward(STATE)?via(STATE)?toward(STATE)?to(STATE)?along(arg)?3777777775Figure 2: Description system of our LCS.
Operators+, ?, ?
follow the basic regular expression syntax.
{}represents a choice of the elements.main events if the agent does more than two ac-tions simultaneously and all the actions are thefocus (e.g., John exchanges A with B).
This ex-tension is simple, but essential for creating LCSstructures of predicates appearing in actual data.In our development of 60 Japanese predicates(verb and verbal noun) frequently appearing inKyoto University Text Corpus (KTC) (Kurohashiand Nagao, 1997) , 37.6% of the frames includedmultiple events.
By using the comb function, wecan express complicated events with predicate de-composition and prevent missing (multiple) roles.A key point for associating LCS frameworkwith the existing frameworks of semantic roles isthat each primitive predicate of LCS representsa fundamental function in semantics.
The func-events in the semantic structure of a verb.
However, gener-ally, a verb focuses on one of those events and this makesa semantic variation among verbs such as buy, sell, and payas well as difference of syntactic behavior of the arguments.Therefore, focused event should be distinguished from theothers as lexical information.
We expressed focused eventsas main formulae (formulae that are not surrounded by acomb function).Role DescriptionProtagonist Entity which is viewpoint of verb.Theme Entity in which its state or change of stateis mentioned.State Current state of certain entity.Actor Entity which performs action thatchanges/maintains its state.Effector Entity which performs action thatchanges/maintains a state of another entity.Patient Entity which is changed/maintained itsstate by another entity.Stimulus Entity which is cause of the action.Source Starting point of certain change event.Source dir Direction of starting point.Middle Pass point of certain change event.Goal End point of certain change event.Goal dir Direction of end point.Route Linear-shaped path of certain change event.Table 3: Semantic role list for proposing extended LCSframework.tions of the arguments of the primitive predicatescan be explained using generalized semantic rolessuch as typical thematic roles.
In order to sim-ply represent the semantic functions of the ar-guments in the LCS primitives or make it eas-ier to compare our extended LCS framework withother SRL frameworks, we define a semantic roleset that corresponds to the semantic functions ofthe primitive predicates in the LCS structure (Ta-ble 3).
We employed role names similarly to typ-ical thematic roles in order to easily compare therole sets, but the definition is different.
Also, dueto the increase of the generality of LCS represen-tation, we obtained clearer definition to explain acorrespondence between LCS primitives and typ-ical thematic roles than the Jackendoff?s predi-cates.
Note that the core semantic information ofa verb represented by a LCS framework is em-bodied directly in its LCS structure and the in-formation decreases if the structure is mapped tothe semantic roles.
The mapping is just for con-trasting thematic roles.
Each role is given an ob-vious meaning and designed to fit to the upper-level primitives of the LCS structure, which arethe arguments of EVENT and PATH functions.
InTable 4, we can see that these roles correspond al-most one-to-one to the primitive arguments.
Onespecial role is Protagonist, which does not matchan argument of a specific primitive.
The Pro-tagonist is assigned to the first argument in themain formula to distinguish that formula from thesub formulae.
There are 13 defined roles, and689Predicate 1st arg 2nd argstate Theme Stateact Actor ?affect Effector Patientreact Actor Stimulusgo Theme PATHfrom Source ?fromward Source dir ?via Middle ?toward Goal dir ?to Goal ?along Route ?Table 4: Correspondence between semantic roles andarguments of LCS primitivesthis number is comparatively smaller than that inVerbNet.
The discussion with regard to this num-ber is described in the next section.Essentially, the semantic functions of the ar-guments in LCS primitives are similar to thoseof traditional, or basic, thematic roles.
However,there are two important differences.
Our extendedLCS framework principally guarantees that theprimitive predicates do not contain any informa-tion concerning (i) selectional preference and (ii)complex structural relation of arguments.
Primi-tives are designed to purely represent a functionin an action-change-state chain, thus the informa-tion of selectional preference is annotated to a dif-ferent layer; specifically, it is directly annotated tocore arguments (e.g., we can annotate i with sel-Pref(animate ?
organization) in Figure 1).
Also,the semantic function is already decomposed andthe structural relation among the arguments is rep-resented as a structure of primitives in LCS rep-resentation.
Therefore, each argument slot ofthe primitive predicates does not include compli-cated meanings and represents a primitive seman-tic property which is highly functional.
Thesecharacteristics are necessary to ensure clarity ofthe semantic role meanings.
We believe that eventhough there surely exists a certain type of com-plex semantic role, it is reasonable to representthat role based on decomposed properties.In order to show an instance of our extendedLCS theory, we constructed a dictionary of LCSstructures for 60 Japanese verbs (including eventnouns) using our extended LCS framework.
The60 verbs were the most frequent verbs in KTC af-ter excluding 100 most frequent ones.4 We cre-4We omitted top 100 verbs since these most frequent onesRole Single Multiple Grow (%)Theme 21 108 414State 1 1 0Actor 12 13 8.3Effector 73 92 26Patient 77 79 2.5Stimulus 0 0 0Source 11 44 300Source dir 4 4 0Middle 1 8 700Goal 42 81 93Goal dir 2 3 50Route 2 2 0w/o Theme 225 327 45Total 246 435 77Table 5: Number of appearances of each roleated the dictionary looking at the instances ofthe target verbs in KTC.
To increase the cover-age of senses and case frames, we also consultedthe online Japanese dictionary Digital Daijisen5and Kyoto university case frames (Kawahara andKurohashi, 2006) which is a compilation of caseframes automatically acquired from a huge webcorpus.
There were 97 constructed frames in thedictionary.Then we analyzed how many roles are addi-tionally assigned by permitting multiple role as-signment (see Table 5).
The numbers of assignedroles for single role are calculated by countingroles that appear first for each target argument inthe structure.
Table 5 shows that the total numberof assigned roles is 1.77 times larger than single-role assignment.
The main reason is an increase inTheme.
For single-role assignment, Theme, in oursense, in action verbs is always duplicated withActor/Patient.
On the other hand, LCS strictlydivides a function for action and change; there-fore the duplicated Theme is correctly annotated.Moreover, we obtained a 45% increase even whenwe did not count duplicated Theme.
Most of in-crease are a result from the increase in Sourceand Goal.
For example, Effectors of transmissionverbs are also annotated with a Source, and Effec-tors of movement verbs are sometimes annotatedwith Source or Goal.contain a phonogram form (Hiragana form) of a certain verbwritten with Kanji characters, and that phonogram form gen-erally has a huge ambiguity because many different verbshave same pronunciation in Japanese.5Available at http://dictionary.goo.ne.jp/jn/.690Resource Frame-independent # of rolesLCS yes 13VerbNet (v3.1) yes 30FrameNet (r1.4) no 8884Table 6: Number of roles in each resource.4 Comparison with other resources4.1 Number of semantic rolesThe number of roles is related to the number of se-mantic properties represented in a framework andto the generality of that property.
Table 6 lists thenumber of semantic roles defined in our extendedLCS framework, VerbNet and FrameNet.There are two ways to define semantic roles.One is frame specific, where the definition of eachrole depends on a specific lexical entry and sucha role is never used in the other frames.
The otheris frame independent, which is to construct roleswhose semantic function is generalized acrossall verbs.
The number of roles in FrameNet iscomparatively large because it defines roles in aframe-specific way.
FrameNet respects individualmeanings of arguments rather than generality ofroles.Compared with VerbNet, the number of rolesdefined in our extended LCS framework is lessthan half.
However, this fact does not meanthat the representation ability of our framework islower than VerbNet.
We manually checked andlisted a corresponding representation in our ex-tended LCS framework for each thematic role inVerbNet in Table 6.
This table does not provide aperfect or complete mapping between the roles inthese two frameworks because the mappings arenot based on annotated data.
However, we canroughly say that the VerbNet roles combine threetypes of information, a function of the argumentin the action-change-state chain, selectional pref-erence, and structural information of arguments,which are in different layers in LCS representa-tion.
VerbNet has many roles whose functions inthe action-change-state chain are duplicated.
Forexample, Destination, Recipient, and Beneficiaryhave the same property end-state (Goal in LCS)of a changing event.
The difference between suchroles comes from a specific sub-type of a chang-ing event (possession), selectional preference, andstructural information among the arguments.
Bydistinguishing such roles, VerbNet roles may takeinto account specific syntactic behaviors of cer-tain semantic roles.
Packing such complex infor-mation to semantic roles is useful for analyzingargument realization.
However, from the view-point of semantic representation, the clarity forsemantic properties provided using a predicate de-composition approach is beneficial.
The 13 rolesfor the LCS approach is sufficient for obtaininga function in the action-change-state chain.
Inour LCS framework, selectional preference canbe assigned to arguments in an individual verb orverb class level instead of role labels themselvesto maintain generality of semantic functions.
Inaddition, our extended LCS framework can easilyseparate complex structural information from rolelabels because LCS directly represents a structureamong the arguments.
We can calculate the infor-mation from the LCS structure instead of codingit into role labels.
As a result, our extended LCSframework maintains generality of roles and thenumber of roles is smaller than other frameworks.4.2 Clarity of role meaningsWe showed that an approach of predicate decom-position used in LCS theory clarified role mean-ings assigned to syntactic arguments.
Moreover,LCS achieves high generality of roles by separat-ing selectional preference or structural informa-tion from role labels.
The complex meaning ofone syntactic argument is represented by multi-ple appearances of the argument in an LCS struc-ture.
For example, we show an LCS structureand a frame in VerbNet with regard to the verb?buy?
in Figure 3.
The LCS structure consistsof four formulae.
The first one is the main for-mula and the others are sub-formulae that rep-resent co-occurring actions.
The semantic-role-like representation of the structure is given in Ta-ble 4: i = {Protagonist, Effector, Source, Goal},j = {Patient,Theme}, k = {Effector, Source,Goal}, and l = {Patient,Theme}.
Selectionalpreference is annotated to each argument as i:selPref(animate ?
organization), j: selPref(any),k: selPref(animate ?
organization), and l: sel-Pref(valuable entity).
If we want to represent theinformation, such as ?Source of what?
?, then wecan extend the notation as Source(j) to refer to achanging object.On the other hand, VerbNet combines mul-tiple types of information into a single role asmentioned above.
Also, the meaning of some691VerbNet role (# of uses) Representation in LCSActor (9), Actor1 (9), Actor2 (9) Actor or Effector in symmetric formulas in the structureAgent (212) (Actor ?
Effector) ?
ProtagonistAsset (6) Theme ?
Source of the change is (locate(in()) ?
Protagonist) ?selPref(valuable entity)Beneficiary (9) (peripheral role ?
(Goal ?
locate(in()))) ?
selPref(animate ?
organization)?
?
(Actor ?
Effector) ?
a transferred entity is something beneficialCause (21) ((Effector ?
selPref(?animate ?
?organization)) ?
Stimulus ?
peripheral role)Destination (32) GoalExperiencer (24) Actor of react()Instrument (25) ((Effector ?
selPref(?animate ?
?organization)) ?
peripheral role)Location (45) (Theme ?
PATH roles ?
peripheral role) ?
selPref(location)Material (6) Theme ?
Source of a change ?
The Goal of the change is locate(fit()) ?the Goal fullfills selPref(physical object)Patient (59), Patient 1(11) Patient ?
ThemePatient2 (11) (Source ?
Goal) ?
connect()Predicate (23) Theme ?
(Goal ?
locate(fit())) ?
peripheral roleProduct (7) Theme ?
(Goal ?
locate(fit()) ?
selPref(physical object))Proposition (11) ThemeRecipient (33) Goal ?
locate(in()) ?
selPref(animate ?
organization)Source (34) SourceTheme (162) ThemeTheme1 (13), Theme2 (13) Both of the two is Theme ?
Theme1 is Theme and Theme2 is StateTopic (18) Theme ?
selPref(knowledge ?
infromation)Table 7: Relationship of roles between VerbNet and our LCS framework.
VerbNet roles that appears more thanfive times in frame definition are analyzed.
Each relationship shown here is only a partial and consistent part ofthe complete correspondence table.
Note that complete table of mapping highly depends on each lexical entry(or verb class).
Here, locate(in()) generally means possession or recognizing.roles depends more on selectional preference orthe structure of the arguments than a primitivefunction in the action-change-state chain.
SuchVerbNet roles are used for several different func-tions depending on verbs and their alternations,and it is therefore difficult to capture decomposedproperties from the role label without having spe-cific lexical knowledge.
Moreover, some seman-tic functions, such as Mary is a Goal of the moneyin Figure 3, are completely discarded from therepresentation at the level of role labels.There is another representation related to theargument meanings in VerbNet.
This representa-tion is a type of predicate decomposition using itsoriginal set of predicates, which are referred to assemantic predicates.
For example, the verb ?buy?in Figure 3 has the predicates has possession,transfer and cost for composing the meaning ofits event structure.
The thematic roles are fillersof the predicates?
arguments, thus the semanticpredicates may implicitly provide additional func-tions to the roles and possibly represent multipleroles.
Unfortunately, we cannot discover whateach argument of the semantic predicates exactlymeans since the definition of each predicate is notExample: ?John bought a book from Mary for $10.
?VerbNet: Agent V Theme {from} Source {for} Asset.has possession(start(E), Source, Theme),has possession(end(E), Agent, Theme),transfer(during(E), Theme), cost(E, Asset)LCS:26666666666666664cause(aff(i:John, j:a book), go(j,hto(loc(in(i)))i))comb24cause(aff(i,l:$10), go(l,"from(loc(in(i)))to(loc(at(k:Mary)))#))35comb24cause(aff(k,j), go(j,"from(loc(in(k)))to(loc(at(i)))#))35comb?cause(aff(k,l), go(l,hto(loc(in(k)))i))?37777777777777775Figure 3: Comparison between the semantic predicaterepresentation and the LCS structure of the verb buy.publicly available.
A requirement for obtainingimplicit semantic functions from these semanticpredicates is clearly defining how the roles (orfunctions) are calculated from these complex re-lations of semantic predicates.FrameNet does not use semantic roles general-ized among all verbs or does not represent seman-692i: selPref(animate ?
organization), j: selPref(any), k: selPref(animate ?
organization), l:selPref(valuable entity)Figure 4: LCS of the verbs get, buy, sell, pay, and collect and their relationships calculated from the structures.tic properties of roles using a predicate decom-position approach, but defines specific roles foreach conceptual event/state to represent a specificbackground of the roles in the event/state.
How-ever, at the same time, FrameNet defines severaltypes of parent-child relations between most ofthe frames and between their roles; therefore, wemay say FrameNet implicitly describes a sort ofdecomposed property using roles in highly gen-eral or abstract frames and represents the inher-itance of these semantic properties.
One advan-tage of this approach is that the inheritance of ameaning between roles is controlled through therelations, which are carefully maintained by hu-man efforts, and is not restricted by the represen-tation ability of the decomposition system.
On theother hand, the only way to represent generalizedproperties of a certain semantic role is enumerat-ing all inherited roles by tracing ancestors.
Also,a semantic relation between arguments in a cer-tain frame, which is given by LCS structure andsemantic predicates of VerbNet, is only definedby a natural language description for each framein FrameNet.
From a CL point of view, we con-sider that, at least, a certain level of formalizationof semantic relation of arguments is important forutilize this information for application.
LCS ap-proach, or an approach using a well-defined pred-icate decomposition, can explicitly describe se-mantic properties and relationships between argu-Figure 5: The frame relations among the verbs get,buy, sell, pay, and collect in FrameNet.ments in a lexical structure.
The primitive proper-ties can be clearly defined, even though the repre-sentation ability is restricted under the generalityof roles.In addition, the frame-to-frame relations inFrameNet may be a useful resource for some ap-plication tasks such as paraphrasing and entail-ment.
We argue that some types of relationshipsbetween frames are automatically calculated us-ing the LCS approach.
For example, one of therelations is based on an inclusion relation of twoLCS structures.
Figure 4 shows automaticallycalculated relations surrounding the verb ?buy?.Note that we chose a sense related to a com-mercial transaction, which means a exchange ofa goods and money, for each word in order tocompare the resulted relation graph with that ofFrameNet.
We call relations among ?buy?, ?sell?,?pay?
and ?collect?
as different viewpoints since693they contain exactly the same formulae, and theonly difference is the main formula.
The rela-tion between ?buy?
and ?get?
is defined as in-heritance; a part of the child structure exactlyequals the parent structure.
Interestingly, the re-lations surrounding the ?buy?
are similar to thosein FrameNet (see Figure 5).
We cannot describeall types of the relations we considered due tospace limitations.
However, the point is that theserelationships are represented as rewriting rulesbetween the two LCS representations and thusthey are automatically calculated.
Moreover, thegrounds for relations maintain clarity based onconcrete structural relations.
A semantic relationconstruction of frames based on structural rela-tionships is another possible application of LCSapproaches that connects traditional LCS theo-ries with resources representing a lexical networksuch as FrameNet.4.3 Consistency on semantic structuresConstructing a LCS dictionary is generally a dif-ficult work since LCS has a high flexibility fordescribing structures and different people tend towrite different structures for a single verb.
Wemaintained consistency of the dictionary by tak-ing into account a similarity of the structures be-tween the verbs that are in paraphrasing or entail-ment relations.
This idea was inspired by auto-matic calculation of semantic relations of lexiconas we mentioned above.
We created a LCS struc-ture for each lexical entry as we can calculate se-mantic relations between related verbs and main-tained high-level consistency among the verbs.Using our extended LCS theory, we success-fully created 97 frames for 60 predicates withoutany extra modification.
From this result, we be-lieve that our extended theory is stable to someextent.
On the other hand, we found that an extraextension of the LCS theory is needed for someverbs to explain the different syntactic behaviorsof one verb.
For example, a condition for a cer-tain syntactic behavior of a verb related to re-ciprocal alteration (see class 2.5 of Levin (Levin,1993)) such as????
(connect) and??
(in-tegrate) cannot be explained without consideringthe number of entities in some arguments.
Also,some verbs need to define an order of the internalevents.
For example, the Japanese verb ????
(shuttle) means that going is a first action andcoming back is a second action.
These are notthe problems that are directly related to a seman-tic role annotation on that we focus in this paper,but we plan to solve these problems with furtherextensions.5 ConclusionWe discussed the two problems in current labelingapproaches for argument-structure analysis: theproblems in clarity of role meanings and multiple-role assignment.
By focusing on the fact that anapproach of predicate decomposition is suitablefor solving these problems, we proposed a newframework for semantic role assignment by ex-tending Jackendoff?s LCS framework.
The statis-tics of our LCS dictionary for 60 Japanese verbsshowed that 37.6% of the created frames includedmultiple events and the number of assigned rolesfor one syntactic argument increased 77% fromthat in single-role assignment.Compared to the other resources such as Verb-Net and FrameNet, the role definitions in our ex-tended LCS framework are clearer since the prim-itive predicates limit the meaning of each role toa function in the action-change-state chain.
Wealso showed that LCS can separate three types ofinformation, the functions represented by primi-tives, the selectional preference and structural re-lation of arguments, which are conflated in role la-bels in existing resources.
As a potential of LCS,we demonstrated that several types of frame re-lations, which are similar to those in FrameNet,are automatically calculated using the structuralrelations between LCSs.
We still must perform athorough investigation for enumerating relationswhich can be represented in terms of rewritingrules for LCS structures.
However, automaticconstruction of a consistent relation graph of se-mantic frames may be possible based on lexicalstructures.We believe that this kind of decomposed analy-sis will accelerate both fundamental and applica-tion research on argument-structure analysis.
As afuture work, we plan to expand the dictionary andconstruct a corpus based on our LCS dictionary.AcknowledgmentThis work was partially supported by JSPS Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research #22800078.694ReferencesP.W.
Culicover and W.K.
Wilkins.
1984.
Locality inlinguistic theory.
Academic Press.Bonnie J. Dorr.
1997.
Large-scale dictionary con-struction for foreign language tutoring and inter-lingual machine translation.
Machine Translation,12(4):271?322.Bonnie J. Dorr.
2001.
Lcs database.
http://www.umiacs.umd.edu/?bonnie/LCS Database Documentation.html.Jeffrey S Gruber.
1965.
Studies in lexical relations.Ph.D.
thesis, MIT.N.
Habash and B. Dorr.
2001.
Large scale languageindependent generation using thematic hierarchies.In Proceedings of MT summit VIII.N.
Habash, B. Dorr, and D. Traum.
2003.
Hybridnatural language generation from lexical conceptualstructures.
Machine Translation, 18(2):81?128.Eva Hajic?ova?
and Ivona Kuc?erova?.
2002.
Argu-ment/valency structure in propbank, lcs databaseand prague dependency treebank: A comparativepilot study.
In Proceedings of the Third Inter-national Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2002), pages 846?851.Ray Jackendoff.
1990.
Semantic Structures.
The MITPress.D.
Kawahara and S. Kurohashi.
2006.
Case framecompilation from the web using high-performancecomputing.
In Proceedings of LREC-2006, pages1344?1347.Paul Kingsbury and Martha Palmer.
2002.
From Tree-bank to PropBank.
In Proceedings of LREC-2002,pages 1989?1993.Karin Kipper, Hoa Trang Dang, and Martha Palmer.2000.
Class-based construction of a verb lexicon.In Proceedings of the National Conference on Arti-ficial Intelligence, pages 691?696.
Menlo Park, CA;Cambridge, MA; London; AAAI Press; MIT Press;1999.Sadao Kurohashi and Makoto Nagao.
1997.
Kyotouniversity text corpus project.
Proceedings of theAnnual Conference of JSAI, 11:58?61.Beth Levin and Malka Rappaport Hovav.
2005.
Argu-ment realization.
Cambridge University Press.Beth Levin.
1993.
English verb classes and alter-nations: A preliminary investigation.
University ofChicago Press.Llu?
?s Ma`rquez, Xavier Carreras, Kenneth C.Litkowski, and Suzanne Stevenson.
2008.
Se-mantic role labeling: an introduction to the specialissue.
Computational linguistics, 34(2):145?159.B.
Rozwadowska.
1988.
Thematic restrictions on de-rived nominals.
In W Wlikins, editor, Syntax andSemantics, volume 21, pages 147?165.
AcademicPress.J.
Ruppenhofer, M. Ellsworth, M.R.L.
Petruck, C.R.Johnson, and J. Scheffczyk.
2006.
FrameNet II:Extended Theory and Practice.
Berkeley FrameNetRelease, 1.Szu-ting Yi, Edward Loper, and Martha Palmer.
2007.Can semantic roles generalize across genres?
InProceedings of HLT-NAACL 2007, pages 548?555.695
