Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 82?86,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsElectionWatch: Detecting Patterns in News Coverage of US ElectionsSaatviga Sudhahar, Thomas Lansdall-Welfare, Ilias Flaounas, Nello CristianiniIntelligent Systems LaboratoryUniversity of Bristol(saatviga.sudhahar, Thomas.Lansdall-Welfare,ilias.flaounas, nello.cristianini)@bristol.ac.ukAbstractWe present a web tool that allows users toexplore news stories concerning the 2012US Presidential Elections via an interac-tive interface.
The tool is based on con-cepts of ?narrative analysis?, where the keyactors of a narration are identified, alongwith their relations, in what are sometimescalled ?semantic triplets?
(one example ofa triplet of this kind is ?Romney CriticisedObama?).
The network of actors and theirrelations can be mined for insights aboutthe structure of the narration, including theidentification of the key players, of the net-work of political support of each of them, arepresentation of the similarity of their po-litical positions, and other information con-cerning their role in the media narration ofevents.
The interactive interface allows theusers to retrieve news report supporting therelations of interest.1 IntroductionU.S presidential elections are major media events,following a fixed calendar, where two or morepublic relation ?machines?
compete to send outtheir message.
From the point of view of the me-dia, this event is often framed as a race, with con-tenders, front runners, and complex alliances.
Bythe end of the campaign, which lasts for about oneyear, two line-ups are created in the media, one foreach major party.
This event provides researchersan opportunity to analyse the narrative structuresfound in the news coverage, the amounts of mediaattention that is devoted to the main contendersand their allies, and other patterns of interest.We propose to study the U.S Presidential Elec-tions with the tools of (quantitative) narrativeanalysis, identifying the key actors and their polit-ical relations, and using this information to inferthe overall structure of the political coalitions.
Weare also interested in how the media covers suchevent that is which role is attributed to each actorwithin this narration.Quantitative Narrative Analysis (QNA) is anapproach to the analysis of news content that re-quires the identification of the key actors, and ofthe kind of interactions they have with each other(Franzosi, 2010).
It usually requires a signifi-cant amount of manual labour, for ?coding?
thenews articles, and this limits the analysis to smallsamples.
We claim that the most interesting rela-tions come from analysing large networks result-ing from tens of thousands of articles, and there-fore that QNA needs to be automated.Our approach is to use a parser to extract simpleSVO triplets, forming a semantic graph to identifythe noun phrases with actors, and to classify theverbal links between actors in three simple cate-gories: those expressing political support, thoseexpressing political opposition, and the rest.
Byidentifying the most important actors and triplets,we form a large weighted and directed networkwhich we analyse for various types of patterns.In this paper we demonstrate an automated sys-tem that can identify articles relative to the 2012US Presidential Election, from 719 online newsoutlets, and can extract information about the keyplayers, their relations, and the role they play inthe electoral narrative.
The system refreshes itsinformation every 24 hours, and has already anal-ysed tens of thousands of news articles.
The toolallows the user to browse the growing set of newsarticles by the relations between actors, for ex-ample retrieving all articles where Mitt Romney82praises Obama1.A set of interactive plots allows users to ex-plore the news data by following specific candi-dates and also specific types of relations, to seea spectrum of all key actors sorted by their po-litical affinity, a network representing relationsof political support between actors, and a two-dimensional space where proximity again repre-sents political affinity, but also they can access in-formation about the role mostly played by a givenactor in the media narrative: that of a subject orthat of an object.The ElectionWatch system is built on top of ourinfrastructure for news content analysis, whichhas been described elsewhere.
It has also accessto named entities information, with which it cangenerate timelines and activity-maps.
These arealso available through the web interface.2 Data CollectionOur system collects news articles from 719 En-glish language news outlets.
We monitor both U.Sand International media.
A detailed description ofthe underlying infrastructure has been presentedin our previous work (Flaounas, 2011).In this demo we use only articles related toUS Elections.
We detect those articles using atopic detector based on Support Vector Machines(Chang, 2011).
We trained and validated ourclassifier using the specialised Election news feedfrom Yahoo!.
The performance of the classifierreached 83.46% precision, 73.29% recall, vali-dated on unseen articles.While the main focus of the paper is to presentNarrative patterns in elections stories, the systempresents also timelines and activity maps gener-ated by detected Named Entities associated withthe election process.3 MethodologyWe perform a series of methodologies for narra-tive analysis.
Figure 1 illustrates the main compo-nents that are used to analyse news and create thewebsite.Preprocessing.
First, we perform co-referenceand anaphora resolution on each U.S Electionarticle.
This is based on the ANNIE pluginin GATE (Cunningham, 2002).
Next, we ex-1Barack Obama and Mitt Romney are the two main op-posing candidates in 2012 U.S Presidential Elections.tract Subject-Verb-Object (SVO) triplets using theMinipar parser output (Lin, 1998).
An extractedtriplet is denoted for example like ?Obama(S)?Accuse(V)?Republicans(O)?.
We found that newsmedia contains less than 5% of passive sentencesand therefore it is ignored.
We store each triplet ina database annotated with a reference to the arti-cle from which it was extracted.
This allows us totrack the background information of each tripletin the database.Key Actors.
From triplets extracted, we makea list of actors which are defined as subjects andobjects of triplets.
We rank actors according totheir frequencies and consider the top 50 subjectsand objects as the key actors.Polarity of Actions.
The verb element intriplets are defined as actions.
We map actionsto two specific action types which are endorse-ment and opposing.
We obtained the endorse-ment/opposing polarity of verbs using the Verbnetdata (Kipper et al2006)).Extraction of Relations.
We retain all tripletsthat have a) the key actors as subjects or ob-jects; and b) an endorse/oppose verb.
To ex-tract relations we introduced a weighting scheme.Each endorsement-relation between actors a, b isweighted by wa,b:wa,b =fa,b (+)?
fa,b (?
)fa,b (+) + fa,b (?
)(1)where fa,b(+) denotes the number of triplets be-tween a, b with positive relation and fa,b(?)
withnegative relation.
This way, actors who hadequal number of positive and negative relationsare eliminated.Endorsement Network.
We generate a tripletnetwork with the weighted relations where actorsare the nodes and weights calculated by Eq.
1 arethe links.
This network reveals endorse/opposerelations between key actors.
The network in themain page of ElectionWatch website, illustratedin Fig.
2, is a typical example of such a network.Network Partitioning.
By using graph parti-tioning methods we can analyse the allegiance ofactors to a party, and therefore their role in thepolitical discourse.
The Endorsement Networkis a directed graph.
To perform its partitioningwe first omit directionality by calculating graphB = A+AT , where A is the adjacency matrix ofthe Endorsement Network.
We computed eigen-vectors of the B and selected the eigenvector that83Figure 1: The Pipelinecorrespond to the highest eigenvalue.
The ele-ments of the eigenvector represent actors.
We sortthem by their magnitude and we obtain a sortedlist of actors.
In the website we display only ac-tors that are very polarised politically in the sidesof the list.
These two sets of actors correlate wellwith the left-right political ordering in our exper-iments on past US Elections.
Since in the firstphase of the campaign there are more than twosides, we added a scatter plot using the first twoeigenvectors.Subject/Object Bias of Actors.
The Sub-ject/Object bias Sa of actor a reveals the role itplays in the news narrative.
It is computed as:Sa =fSubj (a)?
fObj (a)fSubj (a) + fObj (a)(2)A positive value of S for actor a indicates that theactor is used more often as a subject and a neg-ative value indicates that the actor is used moreoften as an object.4 The WebsiteWe analyse news related to U.S Elections 2012every day, automatically, and the results of ouranalysis are presented integrated under a publiclyavailable website2.
Figure 2 illustrates the home-page of ElectionWatch.
Here, we list the key fea-tures of the site:Triplet Graph ?
The main network in Fig.
2is created using the weighted relations.
A positivesign for the edge indicates an endorsement rela-tion and a negative sign indicates an oppositionrelation in the network.
By clicking on each edgein the network, we display triplets and articles thatsupport the relation.2ElectionWatch: http://electionwatch.enm.bris.ac.ukActor Spectrum ?
The left side of Fig.
2shows the Actor Spectrum, coloured from bluefor Democrats to red for Republicans.
Actor spec-trum was obtained by applying spectral graph par-titioning methods to the triplet network.Note, thatcurrently there are more than two campaigns thatrun in parallel between key actors that dominatethe elections news coverage.
Nevertheless, westill find that the two main opposing candidatesin each party were in either sides of the list.Relations ?
On the right hand side of thewebsite we show the endorsement/opposition re-lations between key actors.
For example, ?Re-publicans Oppose Democrats?.
When clicking ona relation the webpage displays the news articlesthat support the relation.Actor Space ?
The tab labelled ?Actor Space?plots the first and second eigenvector values forall actors in the actor spectrum.Actor Bias The tab labelled ?Actor Bias?
plotsthe subject/object bias of actors against the firsteigenvector in a two dimensional space.Pie Chart ?
Pie Chart on the left bottom inthe webpage shows the share of each actor withregard to the total number of articles mentioningan endorse/oppose relation.Map ?
The map geo-locates articles related toUS Elections and refer to US locations.Bar Chart ?
The bar chart tab, illustrated inFig.
3, plots the number of articles in which ac-tors were involved in a endorse/oppose relation.The height of each column reveals the frequencyof it.
The default plot focuses on only the first fiveactors in the actor spectrum.Timelines & Activity Map ?
We track the ac-tivity of each named entity in the actor spectrumwithin the United States and present it in a time-line.
The activity map monitors the media atten-84Figure 2: Screenshot of the home page of ElectionWatchFigure 3: Barchart showing endorse/oppose article fre-quencies for actor ?Obama?
with other top actors.tion for Presidential candidates in each state in theUnites States.
At present we monitor this activityfor Mitt Romney, Rick Perry, Michele Bachmann,Herman Cain and Barack Obama.5 DiscussionWe have demonstrated the system ElectionWatchthat presents key actors in U.S election news ar-ticles and their role in political discourse.
Thisbuilds on various recent contributions from thefield of Pattern Analysis, such as (Trampus,2011), augmenting them with multiple analysistools that respond to the needs of social sciencesinvestigations.We agree on the fact that the triplets extractedby the system are not very clean.
This noise canbe ignored since we perform analysis on only fil-tered triplets containing key actors and specifictype of actions, and also it?s extracted from hugeamount of data.We have tested this system on data from all pre-vious six elections, using the New York Timescorpus as well as our own database.
We use onlysupport/criticism relations revealing a strong po-larisation among actors and this seems to corre-spond to the left/right political dimension.
Evalu-ation is an issue due to lack of data but results onthe past six election cycles on New York Timesalways seperated the two competing candidatesalong the eigenvector spectrum.
This is not soeasy in the primary part of the elections, whenmultiple candidates compete with each other forthe role of contender.
To cover this case, we gen-erate also a two-dimensional plot using the firsttwo eigenvalues of the adjacency matrix, whichseems to capture the main groupings in the politi-cal narrative.Future work will include making better use ofthe information coming from the parser, which85goes well beyond the simple SVO structure ofsentences, and developing more sophisticatedmethods for the analysis of large and complex net-works that can be inferred with the methodologywe have developed.AcknowledgmentsI.
Flaounas and N. Cristianini are supported byFP7 CompLACS; N. Cristianini is supported by aRoyal Society Wolfson Merit Award; The mem-bers of the Intelligent Systems Laboratory aresupported by the ?Pascal2?
Network of Excel-lence.
Authors would like to thank Omar Ali andRoberto Franzosi.ReferencesChang C.C., and Lin C.J.
2011.
LIBSVM: a libraryfor support vector machines.
ACM Transactions onIntelligent Systems and Technology 2(3):1?27Cunningham H., Maynard D., Bontcheva K. andTablan V. 2002.
GATE: A Framework and Graph-ical Development Environment for Robust NLPTools and Applications.
Proc.
of the 40th Anniver-sary Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics 168?175.Earl J., Martin A., McCarthy J.D., Soule S.A. 2004.The Use of Newspaper Data in the Study of Collec-tive Action.
Annual Review of Sociology, 30:65?80.Flaounas I., Ali O., Turchi M., Snowsill T., Nicart F.,De Bie T., Cristianini N. 2011.
NOAM:News Out-lets Analysis and Monitoring system.
Proc.
of the2011 ACM SIGMOD international conference onManagement of data, 1275?1278.Franzosi R. 2010.
Quantitative Narrative Analysis.Sage Publications Inc, Quantitative Applications inthe Social Sciences, 162?200.Kipper K., Korhonen A., Ryant N., Palmer M. 2006.Extensive Classifications of English verbs.
12thEURALEX International Congress, Turin, Italy.Lin D. 1998.
Dependency-Based Evaluation ofMinipar.
Text, Speech and Language Technology20:317?329.Sandhaus, E. 2008.
The New York Times AnnotatedCorpus.
Linguistic Data ConsortiumTrampus M., Mladenic D. 2011.
Learning Event Pat-terns from Text.
Informatica 3586
