Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 787?797,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Unsupervised Dynamic Bayesian Network Approach to MeasuringSpeech Style AccommodationMahaveer Jain1, John McDonough1, Gahgene Gweon2, Bhiksha Raj1, Carolyn Penstein Rose?1,21.
Language Technologies Institute; 2.
Human Computer Interaction InstituteCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213{mmahavee,johnmcd,ggweon,bhiksha,cprose}@cs.cmu.eduAbstractSpeech style accommodation refers toshifts in style that are used to achieve strate-gic goals within interactions.
Models ofstylistic shift that focus on specific fea-tures are limited in terms of the contextsto which they can be applied if the goal ofthe analysis is to model socially motivatedspeech style accommodation.
In this pa-per, we present an unsupervised DynamicBayesian Model that allows us to modelstylistic style accommodation in a way thatis agnostic to which specific speech stylefeatures will shift in a way that resem-bles socially motivated stylistic variation.This greatly expands the applicability of themodel across contexts.
Our hypothesis isthat stylistic shifts that occur as a result ofsocial processes are likely to display someconsistency over time, and if we leveragethis insight in our model,we will achievea model that better captures inherent struc-ture within speech.1 IntroductionSociolinguistic research on speech style and itsresulting social interpretation has frequently fo-cused on the ways in which shifts in style areused to achieve strategic goals within interac-tions, for example the ways in which speakersmay adapt their speaking style to suppress differ-ences and accentuate similarities between them-selves and their interlocutors in order to buildsolidarity (Coupland, 2007; Eckert & Rickford,2001; Sanders, 1987).
We refer to this stylis-tic convergence as speech style accommodation.In the language technologies community, one tar-geted practical benefit of such modeling has beenthe achievement of more natural interactions withspeech dialogue systems (Levitan et al 2011).Monitoring social processes from speech orlanguage data has other practical benefits as well,such as enabling monitoring how beneficial an in-teraction is for group learning (Ward & Litman,2007; Gweon, 2011), how equal participation iswithin a group (DiMicco et al 2004), or howconducive an environment is for fostering a senseof belonging and identification with a community(Wang et al 2011).Typical work on computational models ofspeech style accommodation have focused on spe-cific aspects of style that may be accommodated,such as the frequency or timing of pauses orbackchannels (i.e., words that show attention like?Un huh?
or ?ok?
), pitch, or speaking rate (Ed-lund et al 2009; Levitan & Hirschberg, 2011).
Inthis paper, we present an unsupervised DynamicBayesian Model that allows us to model speechstyle accommodation in a way that does not re-quire us to specify which linguistic features weare targeting.
We explore a space of models de-fined by two independent factors, namely the di-rect influence of one speaker?s style on anotherspeaker?s style and the influence of the relationalgestalt between the two speakers that motivatesthe stylistic accommodation, and thus may keepthe accommodation moving consistently, with thesame momentum.
Prior work has explored the in-fluence of the first factor.
However, because ac-commodation reflects social processes that extendover time within an interaction, one may expect acertain consistency of motion within the stylisticshift.
Furthermore, we can leverage this consis-tency of style shift to identify socially meaningfulvariation without specifying ahead of time which787particular stylistic elements we are focusing on.Our evaluation provides support for this hypothe-sis.When stylistic shifts are focused on specificlinguistic features, then measuring the extent ofthe stylistic accommodation is simple since aspeaker?s style may be represented on a one or twodimensional space, and movement can then bemeasured precisely within this space using sim-ple linear functions.
However, the rich sociolin-guistic literature on speech style accommodationhighlights a much greater variety of speech stylecharacteristics that may be associated with socialstatus within an interaction and may thus be bene-ficial to monitor for stylistic shifts.
Unfortunately,within any given context, the linguistic featuresthat have these status associations, which we re-fer to as indexicality, are only a small subset ofthe linguistic features that are being used in someway.
Furthermore, which features carry this in-dexicality are specific to a context.
Thus, separat-ing the socially meaningful variation from varia-tion in linguistic features occurring for other rea-sons is akin to searching for the proverbial needlein a haystack.
It is this technical challenge that weaddress in this paper.In the remainder of the paper we review the lit-erature on speech style accommodation both froma sociolinguistic perspective and from a techno-logical perspective in order to motivate our hy-pothesis and proposed model.
We then describethe technical details of our model.
Next, wepresent an experiment in which we test our hy-pothesis about the nature of speech style accom-modation and find statistically significant con-firming evidence.
We conclude with a discussionof the limitations of our model and directions forongoing research.2 Theoretical FrameworkOur research goal is to model the structure ofspeech in a way that allows us to monitor so-cial processes through speech.
One common goalof prior work on modeling speech dynamics hasbeen for the purpose of informing the design ofmore natural spoken dialogue systems (Levitan etal., 2011).
The practical goal of our work is tomeasure the social processes themselves, for ex-ample in order to estimate the extent to whichgroup discussions show signs of productive con-sensus building processes (Gweon, 2011).
Muchprior work on modeling emotional speech hassought to identify features that themselves havea social interpretation, such as features that pre-dict emotional states like uncertainty (Liscombeet al 2005), or surprise (Ang et al 2002), orsocial strategies like flirting (Ranganath et al2009).
However, our goal is to monitor social pro-cesses that evolve over time and are reflected inthe change in speech dynamics.
Examples includefostering trust, forming attachments, or buildingsolidarity.2.1 Defining Speech Style AccommmodationThe concept of what we refer to as SpeechStyle Accommodation has its roots in the fieldof the Social Psychology of Language, wherethe many ways in which social processes are re-flected through language, and conversely, howlanguage influences social processes, are the ob-jects of investigation (Giles & Coupland, 1991).As a first step towards leveraging this broad rangeof language processes, we refer to one very spe-cific topic, which has been referred to as entrain-ment, priming, accommodation, or adaptation inother computational work (Levitan & Hirschberg,2011).
Specifically we refer to the finding thatconversational partners may shift their speakingstyle within the interaction, either becoming moresimilar or less similar to one another.Our usage of the term accommodation specifi-cally refers to the process of speech style conver-gence within an interaction.
Stylistic shifts mayoccur at a variety of levels of speech or languagerepresentation.
For example, much of the earlywork on speech style accommodation focused onregional dialect variation, and specifically on as-pects of pronunciation, such as the occurrence ofpost-vocalic ?r?
in New York City, that reflecteddifferences in age, regional identification, and so-cioeconomic status (Labov, 2010a,b).
Distribu-tion of backchannels and pauses have also beenthe target of prior work on accommodation (Lev-itan & Hirschberg, 2011).
These effects may bemoderated by other social factors.
For example,Bilous & Krauss (1988) found that females ac-commodated to their male partners in conversa-tion in terms of average number of words utteredper turn.
For example, Hecht et al(1989) re-ported that extroverts are more listener adaptivethan introverts and hence extroverts convergedmore in their data.788Accommodation could be measured eitherfrom textual or speech content of a conversation.The former relates to ?what?
people say whereasthe latter to ?how?
they say it.
We are only inter-ested in measuring accommodation from speechin this work.
There has been work on convergencein text such as syntactic adaptation (Reitter et al2006) and language similarity in online commu-nities (Huffaker et al 2006).2.2 Social Interpretation of Speech StyleAccommodationIt has long been established that while somespeech style shifts are subconscious, speakersmay also choose to adapt their way of speakingin order to achieve social effects within an in-teraction (Sanders, 1987).
One of the main mo-tives for accommodation is to decrease social dis-tance.
On a variety of levels, speech style accom-modation has been found to affect the impressionthat speakers give within an interaction.
For ex-ample, Welkowitz & Feldstein (1970) found thatwhen speakers become more similar to their part-ners, they are liked more by partners.
Anotherstudy by Putman & Street Jr (1984) demonstratedthat interviewees who converge to the speakingrate and response latency of their interviewers arerated more favorably by the interviewers.
Giles etal.
(1987) found that more accommodating speak-ers were rated as more intelligent and supportiveby their partners.
Conversely, social factors inan interaction affect the extent to which speak-ers engage in, and some times chose not to en-gage in, accommodation.
For example, Purcell(1984) found that Hawaiian children exhibit moreconvergence in interactions with peer groups thatthey like more.
Bourhis & Giles (1977) found thatWelsh speakers while answering to an Englishsurveyor broadened their Welsh accent when theirethnic identity was challenged.
Scotton (1985)found that few people hesitated to repeat lexi-cal patterns of their partners to maintain integrity.Nenkova et al(2008) found that accommodationon high frequency words correlates with natural-ness, task success, and coordinated turn-takingbehavior.2.3 Computational models of speech styleaccommodationPrior research has attempted to quantify accom-modation computationally by measuring similar-ity of speech and lexical features either over fullconversations or by comparing the similarity inthe first half and the second half of the conver-sation.
For example, Edlund et al(2009) mea-sure accommodation in pause and gap length us-ing measures such as synchrony and convergence.Levitan & Hirschberg (2011) found that accom-modation is also found in special social behaviorswithin conversation such as backchannels.
Theyshow that speakers in conversation tend to usesimilar kinds of speech cues such as high pitch atthe end of utterance to invite a backchannel fromtheir partner.
In order to measure accommodationon these cues, they compute the correlation be-tween the numerical values of these cues used bypartners.In our work we measure accommodation usingDynamic Bayesian Networks (DBNs).
Our mod-els are learnt in an unsupervised fashion.
Whatwe are specifically interested in is the manner inwhich the influence of one partner on the other ismodeled.
What is novel in our approach is theintroduction of the concept of an accommodationstate, or relational gestalt variable, which essen-tially models the momentum of the influence thatone partner is having on the other partner?s speak-ing style.
It allows us to represent structurally theinsight that accommodation occurs over time as areflection of a social process, and thus has someconsistency in the nature of the accommodationwithin some span of time.
The prior work de-scribed in this section can be thought of as tak-ing the influence of the partner?s style directly onthe speaker?s style within an instant as the floorshifts from one speaker to the next.
Thus, no con-sistency in the manner in which the accommoda-tion is occurring is explicitly encouraged by themodel.
The major advantage of consistency ofmotion within the style shift over time is that itprovides a sign post for identifying which stylevariation within the speech is salient with respectto social interpretation within a specific interac-tion so that the model may remain agnostic andmay thus be applied to a variety of interactionsthat differ with respect to which stylistic featuresare salient in this respect.3 A Dynamic Bayesian Network Modelfor ConversationSpeech stylistic information is reflected inprosodic features such as pitch, energy, speak-789ing rate etc.
In this work, we leverage on sev-eral of these speech features to quantify accom-modation.
We propose a series of models thatcan be trained unsupervised from speech featuresand can be used for predicting accommodation.The models attempt to capture the dependence ofspeech features on speaking style, as well as theeffect of persistence and accommodation on style.We use a dynamic Bayesian network (DBN) for-malism to capture these relationships.
Below webriefly review DBNs, and subsequently describethe speech features used, and the proposed mod-els.3.1 Dynamic Bayesian NetworksThe theory of Bayesian networks is well doc-umented and understood (Jensen, 1996; Pearl,1988).
A Bayesian network is a probabilisticmodel that represents statistical relationships be-tween random variables via a directed acyclicgraph (DAG).
Formally, it is a directed acyclicgraph whose nodes represent random variables(which may be observable quantities, latent unob-servable variables, or hypotheses to be estimated).Edges represent conditional dependencies; nodeswhich are connected by an edge represent ran-dom variables that have a direct influence on oneanother.
The entire network represents the jointprobability of all the variables represented by thenodes, with appropriate factoring of the condi-tional dependencies between variables.Consider, for instance, a joint distributionover a set of random variables x1, x2, ?
?
?
, xn,modeled by a Bayesian network.
Let V =v1, v2, ?
?
?
, vn represent the set of n nodes inthe network, representing the random variablesx1, x2, ?
?
?
, xn respectively.
Let ?
(vi) representthe set of parent nodes of vi, i.e.
nodes in Vthat have a directed edge into a node vi.
Then,by the dependencies specified by the network,P (xi|x1, x2, ?
?
?
, xn) = P (xi|xj : vj ?
?
(vi)).In other words, any variable xi is directly depen-dent only on its parent variables, i.e.
the randomvariables represented by the nodes in ?
(vi), andis independent of all other variables given thesevariables.
The joint probability of x1, x2, ?
?
?
, xnis hence given byp(x1, x2, ..., xn) =?ip(xi|xpii) (1)Where xpii represents {xj : vj ?
?
(vi), i.e.
theFigure 1: An example Dynamic Bayesian Network(DBN) showing the temporal relationship betweenthree random variables (A,B and C).
A is observeredand dependent on two hidden variables B and C. Di-rected edges across time (t?
1 ?
t) indicate temporalrelationships between variables.
In this example, thevariables At and Bt are both dependent on Bt?1 withthe relationship defined through conditional distribu-tions P (At|Bt?1) and P (Bt|Bt?1).parents of xi in the network.
We note that notall of these variables need to be observable; of-ten in such models several of the variables areunobservable, i.e.
they are latent.
In orderto obtain the joint distribution of the observablevariables the latent variables must be marginal-ized out.
I.e.
if x1, ?
?
?
, xm are observableand xm+1, ?
?
?
, xn are latent, P (x1, ?
?
?
, xm) =?xm+1,???
,xn P (x1, x2, ?
?
?
, xn).Dynamic Bayesian networks (DBNs) furtherrepresent time-series data through a recurrent for-mulation of a basic Bayesian network that repre-sents the relationship between variables.
Withina DBN a set of random variables at each time in-stance t is represented as a static Bayesian Net-work with temporal dependencies to variables atother instants.
Namely, the distribution of a vari-able xi,t at time t is dependent on other variablesat times t ?
?
, xj,t??
through conditional prob-abilities of the form Pr(xi,t|xj,t??
).
An exam-ple DBN, consisting of three variables (A,B andC), two of which have temporal dependencies isshown in Figure 1.One benefit of the DBN formalism is that inaddition to providing a compact graphical wayof representing statistical relationships betweenvariables in a process, the constrained, directednetwork structure also allows for simplified in-ference.
Moreover, the conditional distributionsassociated with the network are often assumednot to vary over time, i.e.
Pr(xi,t|xj,t?? )
=Pr(xi,t?
|xj,t???
).
This allows for a very com-pact representation of DBNs and allows for ef-ficient Expectation-Maximization (EM) learningalgorithms to be applied.790In the discussion that follows we do not explic-itly specify the random variables and the form ofthe associated probability distributions, but onlypresent them graphically.
The joint distribution ofthe variables should nevertheless be obvious fromthe figures.
We employ EM to learn the param-eters of the models from training data, and thejunction tree algorithm (Lauritzen & Spiegelhal-ter, 1988) to perform inference.3.2 Speech FeaturesWe characterize conversations as a series of spo-ken turns by the partners.
We characterize thespeech in each turn through a vector that cap-tures several aspects of the signal that are salientto style.
We used the OPENSmile toolkit (opens-mile, 2011) to compute the features.
Specifi-cally, within each turn the speech was segmentedinto analysis windows of 50ms, where adjacentwindows overlapped by 40ms.
From each anal-ysis window a total of 7 features were com-puted: voice probability, harmonic to noise ratio,voice quality , three measures of pitch (F0, F raw0 ,F env0 ), and loudness.
A 10-bin histogram of fea-ture values was computed for each of these fea-tures, which was then normalized to sum to 1.0.The normalized histogram effectively representsboth the values and the fluctuation in the features.For instance, a histogram of loudness values cap-tures the variation in the loudness of the speakerwithin a turn.
The logarithms of the normalized10-bin histograms for the 7 features were concate-nated to result in a single 70-dimensional obser-vation vector for the turn.
These 70 dimensionalobservation vectors for each turn of any speakerare represented in our model as oit where t is turnindex and i is speaker index.3.3 Elements of the ModelsIn this section we formally describe the elementsof our model.Speaking Style State: These states represent thespeaking styles of the partners in a conversation.We represent these states as sit, where t representturn index and i represents speaker index.
Thesestates are assumed to belong to a finite, discreteset S = {s1, s2, ?
?
?
, sk}, i.e.
sit ?
S ?
(i, t).Accommodation State: An accommodation staterepresents the indirect influence of partners oneach other in a conversation.
In our present de-sign, it can take a value of either 1 or 0.
TheseYt-1 Yt+1O1t-1 O1t+1O1tS1t-1 S1t S1t+1Figure 2: The basic generative model.Yt-1 Yt+1O1t-1 O1t+1O1tS1t-1 S1t S1t+1S2t-1O2t-1S2tO2t O2t+1S2t+1Figure 3: ISM: The dynamics of each speaker are in-dependent of the other speaker.states are represented as At, where t is turn index.Observation Vector: The observation vectors arethe feature vectors oit computed for each turn.3.4 Models for AccommodationOur models embody two premises.
First, a per-son?s speech in any turn is a function of his/herspeaking style in that turn.
Second, a person?sspeaking style at any turn depends not only bytheir own personal biases, but also by their ac-commodation to their partner.
We represent thesedependencies as a DBN.Our basic model to represent the generation ofspeech (i.e.
speech features) by a speaker in theabsence of other influences is shown in Figure 2.The speech features oit in any turn depend only onthe speaking style sit in that turn.
The style sit inany turn depends on the style sit?1 in the previ-ous turn, to capture the speaker-specific patternsof variation in speaking style.
We note that thisis a rather simple model and patterns of variationin style are captured only through the statisticaldependence between styles in consequent turns.We now build our models for accommodationon this basic model.3.4.1 Style-based modelsOur two first models assume that accommo-dation is demonstrated as a direct dependenceof a person?s speaking sytle on their partner?sstyle.
Therefore the models only consider speak-ing styles.The Independent Speaker ModelOur simplest model for a conversation assumes791Yt-1 Yt+1O1t-1 O1t+1O1tS1t-1 S1t S1t+1S2t-1O2t-1S2tO2t O2t+1S2t+1Figure 4: CSDM: A speaker?s style depends on theirpartner?s style at the previous turn.Yt-1 Yt+1O1t-1Y Yt-1At At+1O1t+1O1tS1t-1 S1t S1t+1S2t-1O2t-1S2tO2t O2t+1S2t+1Figure 5: SASM: Both partners?
styles depend on mu-tual accommodation to one another.that each person?s speaking style evolves indepen-dently, uninfluenced by their partner.
The DBNfor this is shown in Figure 3.
We refer to thismodel as the Independent Speaker Model (ISM).Note that the set of values that the style states cantake is common for both speakers.
The speakingstyles for the two speakers may be said to be con-fluent in any turn if both of them are in the samestyle state at that turn.The Cross-speaker Dependence ModelIntuitively, in a conversation speakers are influ-enced by their partners?
speaking style in previ-ous turns.
The Cross-Speaker Dependence Model(CSDM) represents this dependence as shown inthe DBN in Figure 4.
In this model a person?sspeaking style depends on both their own andtheir partner?s speaking styles in the previous turn.3.4.2 Accommodation state modelsAccommodation state models assume that con-versations actually have an underlying state of ac-commodation, and that speakers in fact vary theirspeaking styles in response to it.
We models thisthrough a binary-valued accommodation state thatis embedded into the DBN.
We posit two types ofaccommodation state models.The Symmetric Accommodation State ModelIn the symmetric accommodation state modelYt-1 Yt+1O1tY Yt-1A2t A1tO1t+1S1t S1t+1S2tO2t O2t+1S2t+1Yt-1A2t+1Figure 6: AASM: Accommodation state associatedwith every speaker turn(SASM) we assume that accommodation is ajointly experienced characteristic of the conversa-tion at any time, which enjoys some persistence,but is also affected by the speaking styles exhib-ited by the speakers at each turn.
The accom-modation at any time in turn affects the speakingstyles of both speakers in the next turn.
The DBNfor this model is shown in Figure 5.The Asymmetric Accommodation State ModelThe asymmetric accommodation state model(AASM) represents accommodation as a speaker-turn-specific characteristic.
In any turn, the ac-commodation for a speaker depends chiefly ontheir partner?s most recent speaking style.
The ac-commodation state can change after each speakerturn.
Figure 6 shows the DBN for this model.Note that this model captures the asymmetric na-ture of accommodation, e.g.
it may be the casethat only one of the speakers is accommodating.For instance, if if a1t = 0 and a2t = 1, onlyspeaker2 is accommodating but not speaker1.3.4.3 Accommodated style dependencemodelsWhile accommodation state models explicitlymodels accommodation, they do not explicitlyrepresent how it is expressed.
In reality, accom-modation is a process of convergence ?
an ac-commodating speaker?s speaking style may be ex-pected to converge toward that of their partner.
Inother words, the person?s speaking style dependsnot only on whether they are accommodating ornot, but also on their partner?s style at the previ-ous turn.
Accommodated style dependence mod-els explicitly represent this dependence.The Symmetric Accommodated Style Depen-dence ModelThe Symmetric Accommodated Style Depen-dence Model (SASDM) extends the SASM, to in-792Yt-1 Yt+1O1t-1Y Yt-1At At+1O1t+1O1tS1t-1 S1t S1t+1S2t-1O2t-1S2tO2t O2t+1S2t+1Figure 7: SASDM: A speaker?s style depends both onmutual accommodation and the partner?s style in theprevious turn.Yt-1 Yt+1O1tY Yt-1A2t A1tO1t+1S1t S1t+1S2tO2t O2t+1S2t+1Yt-1A2t+1Figure 8: AASDM: The accommodation state associ-ated with every speaker and a speaker?s style dependson the partner?s style.dicate that a speaker?s style in any turn dependsboth on accommodation and on their partner?sstyle in the previous turn.
Figure 7 shows theDBN for this model.Asymmetric Accommodated Style DependenceModelThe Asymmetric Accommodated Style Depen-dence Model (AASDM) extends the AASM byadding a direct dependence between a speaker?sstyle and their partner?s style in their most recentturn.
The DBN for this is shown in Figure 8.3.5 Interpreting the statesWe note that we have referred to the states in themodels above as ?style?
states.
In reality, in allcases, we learn the parameters of the model inan unsupervised manner, since the data we use totrain it do not have either speaking style or ac-commodation indicated (although, if they were la-beled, the labels could be employed within ourmodels).
Consequently, we have no assurancethat the states learned will actually correspond tospeaking styles.
They can only be considered aproxy for speaking style.
Nevertheless, if bothspeakers are in the same state, they can both beexpected to be producing similar prosodic fea-tures, as represented in the observation vectors.It is hence reasonable to assume that they are bothspeaking in similar style.
Similarly, the accom-modation state cannot be expected to actually de-pict accommodation; nevertheless, it can capturethe dependencies that govern when the two speak-ers are likely to be in the same state.4 EvaluationThe model we have just described allows us to in-vestigate two separate aspects of our concept ofspeech style accommodation.
The first aspect isthat style accommodation occurs as a local influ-ence of one speaker?s style on the other speaker?sstyle, as depicted by direct links between stylestates.
The second aspect is that although this is alocal phenomenon, because it is a reflection of asocial process that extends over a period of time,there will be some persistence of accommodationover longer periods of time, as characterized bythe accommodation state.
We presented two dif-ferent operationalizations of the accommodationstate above, namely Asymmetric and Symmetric.Accommodation is a phenomenon that occurswithin interactions between speakers; we can ex-pect not to observe accommodation occurring be-tween individuals that have never met and are notinteracting.
On average, then, we expect to seemore evidence of speech style accommodation inpairs of individuals who are interacting (i.e., RealPairs) than in pairs of individuals who are not in-teracting and have never met (i.e., ConstructedPairs).
Thus, we may evaluate the extent to whichour model is sensitive to social dynamics withinpairs by the extent to which it is able to distinguishbetween true conversation between Real Pairs ofspeaker and synthetic conversation between Con-structed Pairs.
A similar experimental paradigmhas been adopted in prior work on speech styleaccommodation (Levitan et al 2011).Hypothesis: Our hypothesis is that models thatexplicitly represent the notion that accommoda-tion occurs over a span of time with consistencyof momentum will achieve better success at dis-tinguishing between Real Pairs and ConstructedPairs than models that do not.Experimental Manipulation: Thus, using themodel we have just described, we are able totest our hypothesis using a 2 ?
3 factorial designin which one factor is the inclusion of directlinks from the style of one speaker to the style793of the other speaker, which we refer to as theDirectInfluence (DI) factor, with values True(T) and False (F), and the second factor is theinclusion of links from style states to and fromAccommodation states, which we refer to as theIndirectInfluence (II) factor, with values False(F), Asymmetric (A), and Symmetric (S).
Theresult of this 2 ?
3 factorial design are the 6different models described in Section 3, namelyISM (DI=False, II=False), CSDM (DI=True,II=False), SASM (DI=False, II=Symmetric),AASM (DI=False, II=Asymmetric), SASDM(DI=True, II=Symmetric), and AASDM(DI=True, II= Asymmetric).Corpus: The success criterion in our experimentis the extent to which models of speech styleaccommodation are able to distinguish betweenReal Pairs and Constructed pairs.
In order to setup this comparison, we began with a corpus of de-bates between students about the reasons for thefall of the Ottoman Empire.
We obtained this cor-pus from researchers who originally collected itto investigate issues related to learning from con-versational interactions (Nokes et al 2010).
Thefull corpus contains interactions between 76 pairsof students who interacted for 8 minutes.
Withineach pair, one student was assigned the role of ar-guing that the fall of the Ottoman empire was dueto internal causes, whereas the other student wasassigned the role of arguing that the fall of the Ot-toman empire was due to external causes.
Eachstudent was given a 4 page packet of supportinginformation for their side of the debate to drawfrom in the interaction.The speech from each participant was recordedon a separate channel.
As a first step, we alignedthe speech recordings automatically to their tran-scriptions at the word and turn level.
After align-ing the corpus at the word level, we identify theturn interval of each partner in the conversation.We use 66 of the debates out of the complete setof 76 for the experiments discussed in this paper.We had to eliminate 10 dialogues where the seg-mentation and alignment failed.
For each of ourmodels, we used the same 3 fold cross-validation.Participants: Participants were all male under-graduate students between the ages of 18 and 25.In prior studies, it has been shown that accommo-dation varies based on gender, age and familiar-ity between partners.
This corpus is particularlyappropriate because it controls for most of thesefactors.
Furthermore, because the participants didnot know each other before the debate, we canassume that if accommodation happened, it wasonly during the conversation.Real versus Constructed Pairs: In our analy-sis below, we compare measured accommodationbetween pairs of humans who had a real conver-sation and a constructed pair in which one per-son from that conversation is paired with a con-structed partner, where the partner?s side of theconversation was constructed from turns that oc-curred in other conversations.
We set up this com-parison in order to isolate speech style conver-gence from lexical convergence when we evalu-ate the performance of our model.
The differencebetween the measured accommodation betweenreal and constructed pairs is treated as a weak op-erationalization of model accuracy at measuringspeech style accommodation.For each of the 20 Real pairs in the test corpuswe composed one Constructed Pair.
Each Con-structed Pair comprised one student from the cor-responding Real Pair (i.e., the Real Student) and aConstructed Partner that resembled the real part-ner in content but not necessarily style.
We didthis by iterating through the real partner?s turns,replacing each with a turn that matched as well aspossible in terms of lexical content but came froma different conversation.
Lexical content matchwas measured in terms of cosine similarity.
Turnswere selected from the other Real pairs.
Thus, theConstructed Partner had similar content to the cor-responding real partner on a turn by turn basis, butthe style of expression could not be influenced bythe Real Student.
Thus, ideally we should not seeevidence of speech style accommodation withinthe Constructed Pairs.Experimental Procedure: For each of the fourmodels we computed an Accommodation Scorefor each of the Real Pairs and Constructed Pairs.In order to obtain a measure that can be used tocompute accommodation for all the models con-sidered, we compute the accommodation value asthe fraction of turns in a session where partnersexhibited the same speaking style.Results: In order to test our hypothesis we con-structed an ANOVA model with AccommodationScore as the dependent variable and DirectInflu-ence, IndirectInfluence, RealVsConstructed as in-dependent variables.
Additionally we includedthe interaction terms between all pairs of inde-794DI II Real Constructed?(?)
?(?
)SASDM T S .54 (.23) .44 (.29)SASM F S .54 (.23) .44 (.29)CSDM T F .6 (.26) .52 (.3)ISM F F .56 (.25) .51 (.32)AASM F A .6 (.24) .51 (.3)AASDM T A .61 (.24) .48 (.3)Table 1: Accommodation measured using differentmodels.
Legend: ?=mean, ?
= standard deviation, DI= ?Direct Influence?, II = ?Indirect Influence?.pendent variables.
Using this ANOVA model, wefind a highly significant main effect of the Re-alVsConstructed factor that demonstrates the gen-eral ability of the models to achieve separation be-tween Real Pairs and Constructed Pairs; on aver-age F(1,780) = 18.22, p < .0001.However, when we look more closely, we findthat although the trend is consistently to find moreevidence of speech style accommodation in RealPairs than in Constructed Pairs, we see differen-tiation among the models in terms of their abil-ity to achieve this separation.
When we exam-ine the two way interactions between DirectIn-fluence and RealVsConstructed as well as be-tween IndirectInfluence and RealVsConstructed,although we do not find significant interactions,we do find some suggestive patterns when wedo the student T posthoc analysis.
In particular,when we explore just the interaction between In-directInfluence links, we find a significant separa-tion between Real vs Constructed pairs for modelswith Accommodation states, but not for the caseswhere no Accommodation states are included.However, when we do the same for the interactionbetween DirectInfluence links and RealVsCon-structed, we find significant separation with orwithout those links.
This suggests that IndirectIn-fluence links are more important than DirectInflu-ence links.
At a finer-grained level, when we ex-amine the models individually, we only find a sig-nificant separation between Real and Constructedpairs with the model that includes both Direct-Influence and Symmetric IndirectInfluence links.These results suggest that Symmetric IndirectIn-fluence links may be slightly better than Asym-metric ones, and that combining DirectInfluencelinks and Symmetric IndirectInfluence links maybe the best combination.Based on this analysis, we find support for ourhypothesis.
We find that the model that includesSymmetric IndirectInfluence links and DirectIn-fluence links is the best balance between represen-tational power and simplicity.
The support for theinclusion of DirectInfluence links in the model isweaker than that of IndirectInfluence links, how-ever.
On a larger dataset, we may have observedstronger effects of both factors.
Even on this smalldataset, we find evidence that adding that struc-ture improves the performance of the model with-out leading to overfitting.5 Conclusions and Current DirectionsIn this paper we presented an unsupervised dy-namic Bayesian modeling approach to modelingspeech style accommodation in face-to-face inter-actions.
Our model was motivated by the idea thatbecause accommodation reflects social processesthat extend over time within an interaction, onemay expect a certain consistency of motion withinthe stylistic shift.
Our evaluation demonstrated astatistically significant advantage for the modelsthat embodied this idea.An important motivation for our modeling ap-proach was that it allows us to avoid targetingspecific linguistic style features in our measureof accommodation.
However, in our evaluation,we only tested our approach on conversations be-tween male undergraduate students discussing thefall of the Ottoman Empire.
Thus, while our eval-uation provides evidence that we have taken a firstimportant step towards our ultimate goal, we can-not yet claim that we have a model that performsequally effectively across contexts.
In our futurework, we plan to formally test the extent to whichthis allows us to accurately measure accommoda-tion within contexts in which very different stylis-tic elements carry strategic social value.Another important direction of our current re-search is to explore how measures of speech styleaccommodation may predict other important mea-sures such as how positively partners view one an-other, how successful partners perform tasks to-gether, or how well students learn together.6 AcknowledgmentsWe gratefully acknowledge John Levine and Tim-othy Nokes for sharing their data with us.
Thiswork was funded by NSF SBE 0836012.795ReferencesAng, J., Dhillon, R., Krupski, A., Shriberg, E., & Stol-cke, A.
(2002).
Prosody-based automatic detectionof annoyance and frustration in human-computer di-alog.
In Proc.
ICSLP, volume 3, pages 2037?2040.Citeseer.Bilous, F. & Krauss, R. (1988).
Dominance andaccommodation in the conversational behavioursof same-and mixed-gender dyads.
Language andCommunication, 8(3), 4.Bourhis, R. & Giles, H. (1977).
The language of in-tergroup distinctiveness.
Language, ethnicity andintergroup relations, 13, 119.Coupland, N. (2007).
Style: Language variation andidentity.
Cambridge Univ Pr.DiMicco, J., Pandolfo, A., & Bender, W. (2004).
Influ-encing group participation with a shared display.
InProceedings of the 2004 ACM conference on Com-puter supported cooperative work, pages 614?623.ACM.Eckert, P. & Rickford, J.
(2001).
Style and sociolin-guistic variation.
Cambridge Univ Pr.Edlund, J., Heldner, M., & Hirschberg, J.
(2009).Pause and gap length in face-to-face interaction.
InProc.
Interspeech.Giles, H. & Coupland, N. (1991).
Language: Contextsand consequences.
Thomson Brooks/Cole Publish-ing Co.Giles, H., Mulac, A., Bradac, J., & Johnson, P. (1987).Speech accommodation theory: The next decadeand beyond.
Communication yearbook, 10, 13?48.Gweon, G. A. P. U. M. R. B. R. C. P. (2011).
Theautomatic assessment of knowledge integration pro-cesses in project teams.
In Proceedings of ComputerSupported Collaborative Learning.Hecht, M., Boster, F., & LaMer, S. (1989).
The ef-fect of extroversion and differentiation on listener-adapted communication.
Communication Reports,2(1), 1?8.Huffaker, D., Jorgensen, J., Iacobelli, F., Tepper, P., &Cassell, J.
(2006).
Computational measures for lan-guage similarity across time in online communities.In In ACTS: Proceedings of the HLT-NAACL 2006Workshop on Analyzing Conversations in Text andSpeech, pages 15?22.Jensen, F. V. (1996).
An introduction to Bayesian net-works.
UCL Press.Labov, W. (2010a).
Principles of linguistic change:Internal factors, volume 1.
Wiley-Blackwell.Labov, W. (2010b).
Principles of linguistic change:Social factors, volume 2.
Wiley-Blackwell.Lauritzen, S. L. & Spiegelhalter, D. J.
(1988).
Localcomputations with probabilities on graphical struc-tures and their application to expert systems.
Jour-nal of the Royal Statistical Society, 50, 157?224.Levitan, R. & Hirschberg, J.
(2011).
Measuringacoustic-prosodic entrainment with respect to mul-tiple levels and dimensions.
In Proceedings of In-terspeech.Levitan, R., Gravano, A., & Hirschberg, J.
(2011).Entrainment in speech preceding backchannels.
InProceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics: HumanLanguage Technologies: short papers-Volume 2,pages 113?117.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Liscombe, J., Hirschberg, J., & Venditti, J.
(2005).
De-tecting certainness in spoken tutorial dialogues.
InProceedings of INTERSPEECH, pages 1837?1840.Citeseer.Nenkova, A., Gravano, A., & Hirschberg, J.
(2008).High frequency word entrainment in spoken dia-logue.
In In Proceedings of ACL-08: HLT.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.opensmile (2011).
http://opensmile.sourceforge.net/.Pearl, J.
(1988).
Probabilistic Reasoning in IntelligentSystems: Networks of Plausible Inference.
MorganKaufmann.Purcell, A.
(1984).
Code shifting hawaiian style: chil-drens accommodation along a decreolizing contin-uum.
International Journal of the Sociology of Lan-guage, 1984(46), 71?86.Putman, W. & Street Jr, R. (1984).
The conceptionand perception of noncontent speech performance:Implications for speech-accommodation theory.
In-ternational Journal of the Sociology of Language,1984(46), 97?114.Ranganath, R., Jurafsky, D., & McFarland, D. (2009).It?s not you, it?s me: detecting flirting and its mis-perception in speed-dates.
In Proceedings of the2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing: Volume 1-Volume 1, pages334?342.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Reitter, D., Keller, F., & Moore, J. D. (2006).
Com-putational modelling of structural priming in dia-logue.
In In Proc.
Human Language Technologyconference - North American chapter of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics annual mtg,pages 121?124.Sanders, R. (1987).
Cognitive foundations of calcu-lated speech.
State University of New York Press.Scotton, C. (1985).
What the heck, sir: Style shiftingand lexical colouring as features of powerful lan-796guage.
Sequence and pattern in communicative be-haviour, pages 103?119.Wang, Y., Kraut, R., & Levine, J.
(2011).
To stay orleave?
the relationship of emotional and informa-tional support to commitment in online health sup-port groups.
In Proceedings of the ACM conferenceon computer-supported cooperative work.
ACM.Ward, A.
& Litman, D. (2007).
Automatically measur-ing lexical and acoustic/prosodic convergence in tu-torial dialog corpora.
In Proceedings of the SLaTEWorkshop on Speech and Language Technology inEducation.
Citeseer.Welkowitz, J.
& Feldstein, S. (1970).
Relation of ex-perimentally manipulated interpersonal perceptionand psychological differentiation to the temporalpatterning of conversation.
In Proceedings of the78th Annual Convention of the American Psycho-logical Association, volume 5, pages 387?388.797
