Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 726?735,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsDetermining the placement of German verbs in English?to?GermanSMTAnita Gojun Alexander FraserInstitute for Natural Language ProcessingUniversity of Stuttgart, Germany{gojunaa, fraser}@ims.uni-stuttgart.deAbstractWhen translating English to German, exist-ing reordering models often cannot modelthe long-range reorderings needed to gen-erate German translations with verbs in thecorrect position.
We reorder English as apreprocessing step for English-to-GermanSMT.
We use a sequence of hand-craftedreordering rules applied to English parsetrees.
The reordering rules place Englishverbal elements in the positions within theclause they will have in the German transla-tion.
This is a difficult problem, as Germanverbal elements can appear in different po-sitions within a clause (in contrast with En-glish verbal elements, whose positions donot vary as much).
We obtain a significantimprovement in translation performance.1 IntroductionPhrase-based SMT (PSMT) systems translateword sequences (phrases) from a source languageinto a target language, performing reordering oftarget phrases in order to generate a fluent targetlanguage output.
The reordering models, such as,for example, the models implemented in Moses(Koehn et al 2007), are often limited to a cer-tain reordering range since reordering beyond thisdistance cannot be performed accurately.
This re-sults in problems of fluency for language pairswith large differences in constituent order, suchas English and German.
When translating fromEnglish to German, verbs in the German outputare often incorrectly left near their position in En-glish, creating problems of fluency.
Verbs are alsooften omitted since the distortion model cannotmove verbs to positions which are licensed by theGerman language model, making the translationsdifficult to understand.A common approach for handling the long-range reordering problem within PSMT is per-forming syntax-based or part-of-speech-based(POS-based) reordering of the input as a prepro-cessing step before translation (e.g., Collins et al(2005), Gupta et al(2007), Habash (2007), Xuet al(2009), Niehues and Kolss (2009), Katz-Brown et al(2011), Genzel (2010)).We reorder English to improve the translationto German.
The verb reordering process is im-plemented using deterministic reordering rules onEnglish parse trees.
The sequence of reorderingsis derived from the clause type and the composi-tion of a given verbal complex (a (possibly dis-contiguous) sequence of verbal elements in a sin-gle clause).
Only one rule can be applied in agiven context and for each word to be reordered,there is a unique reordered position.
We train astandard PSMT system on the reordered Englishtraining and tuning data and use it to translate thereordered English test set into German.This paper is structured as follows: in section2, we outline related work.
In section 3, Englishand German verb positioning is described.
Thereordering rules are given in section 4.
In sec-tion 5, we show the relevance of the reordering,present the experiments and present an extensiveerror analysis.
We discuss some problems ob-served in section 7 and conclude in section 8.2 Related workThere have been a number of attempts to handlethe long-range reordering problem within PSMT.Many of them are based on the reordering of asource language sentence as a preprocessing step726before translation.
Our approach is related to thework of Collins et al(2005).
They reorderedGerman sentences as a preprocessing step forGerman-to-English SMT.
Hand-crafted reorder-ing rules are applied on German parse trees inorder to move the German verbs into the posi-tions corresponding to the positions of the Englishverbs.
Subsequently, the reordered German sen-tences are translated into English leading to bettertranslation performance when compared with thetranslation of the original German sentences.We apply this method on the opposite trans-lation direction, thus having English as a sourcelanguage and German as a target language.
How-ever, we cannot simply invert the reordering ruleswhich are applied on German as a source lan-guage in order to reorder the English input.
Whilethe reordering of German implies movement ofthe German verbs into a single position, when re-ordering English, we need to split the English ver-bal complexes and, where required, move theirparts into different positions.
Therefore, we needto identify exactly which parts of a verbal com-plex must be moved and their possible positionsin a German sentence.Reordering rules can also be extracted automat-ically.
For example, Niehues and Kolss (2009)automatically extracted discontiguous reorderingrules (allowing gaps between POS tags whichcan include an arbitrary number of words) froma word-aligned parallel corpus with POS taggedsource side.
Since many different rules can be ap-plied on a given sentence, a number of reorderedsentence alternatives are created which are en-coded as a word lattice (Dyer et al 2008).
Theydealt with the translation directions German-to-English and English-to-German, but translationimprovement was obtained only for the German-to-English direction.
This may be due to miss-ing information about clause boundaries since En-glish verbs often have to be moved to the clauseend.
Our reordering has access to this kind ofknowledge since we are working with a full syn-tactic parser of English.Genzel (2010) proposed a language-independent method for learning reorderingrules where the rules are extracted from parsedsource language sentences.
For each node, allpossible reorderings (permutations) of a limitednumber of the child nodes are considered.
Thecandidate reordering rules are applied on thedev set which is then translated and evaluated.Only those rule sequences are extracted whichmaximize the translation performance of thereordered dev set.For the extraction of reordering rules, Gen-zel (2010) uses shallow constituent parse treeswhich are obtained from dependency parse trees.The trees are annotated using both Penn Tree-bank POS tags and using Stanford dependencytypes.
However, the constraints on possible re-orderings are too restrictive in order to model allword movements required for English-to-Germantranslation.
In particular, the reordering rules in-volve only the permutation of direct child nodesand do not allow changing of child-parent rela-tionships (deleting of a child or attaching a nodeto a new father node).
In our implementation, averb can be moved to any position in a parse tree(according to the reordering rules): the reorderingcan be a simple permutation of child nodes, or at-tachment of these nodes to a new father node (cf.movement of bought and read in figure 11).Thus, in contrast to Genzel (2010), our ap-proach does not have any constraints with respectto the position of nodes marking a verb within thetree.
Only the syntactic structure of the sentencerestricts the distance of the linguistically moti-vated verb movements.3 Verb positions in English and German3.1 Syntax of German sentencesSince in this work, we concentrate on verbs, weuse the notion verbal complex for a sequence con-sisting of verbs, verbal particles and negation.The verb positions in the German sentences de-pend on clause type and the tense as shown in ta-ble 1.
Verbs can be placed in 1st, 2nd or clause-final position.
Additionally, if a composed tenseis given, the parts of a verbal complex can beinterrupted by the middle field (MF) which con-tains arbitrary sentence constituents, e.g., sub-jects and objects (noun phrases), adjuncts (prepo-sitional phrases), adverbs, etc.
We assume that theGerman sentences are SVO (analogously to En-glish); topicalization is beyond the scope of ourwork.In this work, we consider two possible posi-tions of the negation in German: (1) directly in1The verb movements shown in figure 1 will be explainedin detail in section 4.7271st 2nd MF clause-finaldeclsubject finV any ?subject finV any mainVint/periffinV subject any ?finV subject any mainVsub/infrelCon subject any finVrelCon subject any VCTable 1: Position of the German subjects and verbsin declarative clauses (decl), interrogative clauses andclauses with a peripheral clause (int/perif ), subordi-nate/infinitival (sub/inf ) clauses.
mainV = main verb,finV = finite verb, VC = verbal complex, any = arbi-trary words, relCon = relative pronoun or conjunction.We consider extraponed consituents in perif, as well asoptional interrogatives in int to be in position 0.front of the main verb, and (2) directly after thefinite verb.
The two negation positions are illus-trated in the following examples:(1) IchIbehaupte,claimdassthatichIesitnichtnotgesagtsayhabe.did.
(2) IchIdenkethinknicht,notdassthaterhedasthatgesagtsaidhat.has.It should, however, be noted that in German, thenegative particle nicht can have several positionsin a sentence depending on the context (verb argu-ments, emphasis).
Thus, more analysis is ideallyneeded (e.g., discourse, etc.
).3.2 Comparison of verb positionsEnglish and German verbal complexes differ bothin their construction and their position.
The Ger-man verbal complex can be discontiguous, i.e., itsparts can be placed in different positions whichimplies that a (large) number of other words canbe placed between the verbs (situated in the MF).In English, the verbal complex can only be inter-rupted by adverbials and subjects (in interrogativeclauses).
Furthermore, in German, the finite verbcan sometimes be the last element of the verbalcomplex, while in English, the finite verb is al-ways the first verb in the verbal complex.In terms of positions, the verbs in English andGerman can differ significantly.
As previouslynoted, the German verbal complex can be discon-tiguous, simultaneously occupying 1st/2nd andclause-final position (cf.
rows decl and int/perif intable 1), which is not the case in English.
While inEnglish, the verbal complex is placed in the 2ndposition in declarative, or in the 1st position in in-terrogative clauses, in German, the entire verbalcomplex can additionally be placed at the clauseend in subordinate or infinitival clauses (cf.
rowsub/inf in table 1).Because of these differences, for nearly alltypes of English clauses, reordering is needed inorder to place the English verbs in the positionswhich correspond to the correct verb positions inGerman.
Only English declarative clauses withsimple present and simple past tense have thesame verb position as their German counterparts.We give statistics on clause types and their rele-vance for the verb reordering in section 5.1.4 Reordering of the English inputThe reordering is carried out on English parsetrees.
We first enrich the parse trees with clausetype labels, as described below.
Then, for eachnode marking a clause (S nodes), the correspond-ing sequence of reordering rules is carried out.The appropriate reordering is derived from theclause type label and the composition of the givenverbal complex.
The reordering rules are deter-ministic.
Only one rule can be applied in a givencontext and for each verb to be reordered, there isa unique reordered position.The reordering procedure is the same for thetraining and the testing data.
It is carried outon English parse trees resulting in modified parsetrees which are read out in order to generate thereordered English sentences.
These are input fortraining a PSMT system or input to the decoder.The processing steps are shown in figure 1.For the development of the reordering rules, weused a small sample of the training data.
In par-ticular, by observing the English parse trees ex-tracted randomly from the training data, we de-veloped a set of rules which transform the origi-nal trees in such a way that the English verbs aremoved to the positions which correspond to theplacement of verbs in German.4.1 Labeling clauses with their typeAs shown in section 3.1, the verb positions in Ger-man depend on the clause type.
Since we use En-glish parse trees produced by the generative parserof Charniak and Johnson (2005) which do nothave any function labels, we implemented a sim-ple rule-based clause type labeling script which728....WHNPwhichNPDT NNa bookYesterdayRBADVP ,,S?EXTRIPRPNPNPJJ NNlast weekNPPRPIYesterdayRBADVP ,,IPRPNPS?EXTRNPJJ NNlast weekNPPRPINPDT NNa bookNPS?SUBSVPVBDreadVBDboughtNPWHNPwhichS?SUBSVPVBDboughtVBDreadreorderingread out and translateVPVP11Figure 1: Processing steps: Clause type labeling an-notates the given original tree with clause type labels(in figure, S-EXTR and S-SUB).
Subsequently, the re-ordering is performed (cf.
movement of the verbs readand bought).
The reordered sentence is finally read outand given to the decoder.enriches every clause starting node with the corre-sponding clause type label.
The label depends onthe context (father, child nodes) of a given clausenode.
If, for example, the first child node of agiven S node is WH* (wh-word) or IN (subordi-nating conjunction), then the clause type label isSUB (subordinate clause, cf.
figure 1).We defined five clause type labels which indi-cate main clauses (MAIN), main clauses with aperipheral clause in the prefield (EXTR), subor-dinate (SUB), infinitival (XCOMP) and interroga-tive clauses (INT).4.2 Clause boundary identificationThe German verbs are often placed at the clauseend (cf.
rows decl, int/perif and sub/inf in ta-ble 1), making it necessary to move their En-glish counterparts into the corresponding posi-tions within an English tree.
For this reason, weidentify the clause ends (the right boundaries).The search for the clause end is implemented asa breadth-first search for the next S node or sen-tence end.
The starting node is the node whichmarks the verbal phrase in which the verbs areenclosed.
When the next node marking a clauseis identified, the search stops and returns the posi-tion in front of the identified clause marking node.When, for example, searching for the clauseboundary of S-EXTR in figure 1, we search re-cursively for the first clause marking node withinVP1 , which is S-SUB.
The position in front of S-SUB is marked as clause-final position of S-EXTR.4.3 Basic verb reordering rulesThe reordering procedure takes into account thefollowing word categories: verbs, verb particles,the infinitival particle to and the negative parti-cle not, as well as its abbreviated form ?t.
Thereordering rules are based on POS labels in theparse tree.The reordering procedure is a sequence of ap-plications of the reordering rules.
For each el-ement of an English verbal complex, its proper-ties are derived (tense, main verb/auxiliary, finite-ness).
The reordering is then carried out corre-sponding to the clause type and verbal propertiesof a verb to be processed.In the following, the reordering rules are pre-sented.
Examples of reordered sentences aregiven in table 2, and are discussed further here.Main clause (S-MAIN)(i) simple tense: no reordering required(cf.
appearsfinV in input 1);(ii) composed tense: the main verb is moved tothe clause end.
If a negative particle exists, itis moved in front of the reordered main verb,while the optional verb particle is moved af-ter the reordered main verb (cf.
[has]finV[been developing]mainV in input 2).Main clause with peripheral clause (S-EXTR)(i) simple tense: the finite verb is moved to-gether with an optional particle to the 1st po-sition (i.e.
in front of the subject);(ii) composed tense: the main verb, as wellas optional negative and verb particles aremoved to the clause end.
The finite verb ismoved in the 1st position, i.e.
in front of thesubject (cf.
havefinV [gone up]mainV in in-put 3).729Subordinate clause (S-SUB)(i) simple tense: the finite verb is moved to theclause end (cf.
boastsfinV in input 3);(ii) composed tense: the main verb, as wellas optional negative and verb particles aremoved to the clause end, the finite verb isplaced after the reordered main verb (cf.havefinV [been executed]mainV in input 5).Infinitival clause (S-XCOMP)The entire English verbal complex is moved fromthe 2nd position to the clause-final position (cf.
[to discuss]VC in input 4).Interrogative clause (S-INT)(i) simple tense: no reordering required;(ii) composed tense: the main verb, as wellas optional negative and verb particles aremoved to the clause end (cf.
[did]finVknowmainV in input 5).4.4 Reordering rules for other phenomena4.4.1 Multiple auxiliaries in EnglishSome English tenses require a sequence of aux-iliaries, not all of which have a German coun-terpart.
In the reordering process, non-finiteauxiliaries are considered to be a part of themain verb complex and are moved together withthe main verb (cf.
movement of hasfinV [beendeveloping]mainV in input 2).4.4.2 Simple vs. composed tensesIn English, there are some tenses composed ofan auxiliary and a main verb which correspondto a German tense composed of only one verb,e.g., am reading?
lese and does John read?
?liest John?
Splitting such English verbal com-plexes and only moving the main verbs wouldlead to constructions which do not exist in Ger-man.
Therefore, in the reordering process, theEnglish verbal complex in present continuous, aswell as interrogative phrases composed of do anda main verb, are not split.
They are handled asone main verb complex and reordered as a sin-gle unit using the rules for main verbs (e.g.
[be-cause I am reading a book]SUB ?
because I abook am reading?
weil ich ein Buch lese.22We only consider present continuous and verbs in com-bination with do for this kind of reordering.
There are also4.4.3 Flexible position of German verbsWe stated that the English verbs are never movedoutside the subclause they were originally in.
InGerman there are, however, some constructions(infinitival and relative clauses), in which themain verb can be placed after a subsequent clause.Consider two German translations of the Englishsentence He has promised to come:(3a) Erhehathas[zutokommen]Scomeversprochen.promised.
(3b) Erhehathasversprochen,promised,[zutokommen]S .come.In (3a), the German main verb versprochen isplaced after the infinitival clause zu kommen (tocome), while in (3b), the same verb is placed infront of it.
Both alternatives are grammaticallycorrect.If a German verb should come after an em-bedded clause as in example (3a) or precede it(cf.
example (3b)), depends not only on syntac-tic but also on stylistic factors.
Regarding theverb reordering problem, we would therefore haveto examine the given sentence in order to derivethe correct (or more probable) new verb positionwhich is beyond the scope of this work.
There-fore, we allow only for reorderings which do notcross clause boundaries as shown in example (3b).5 ExperimentsIn order to evaluate the translation of the re-ordered English sentences, we built two SMT sys-tems with Moses (Koehn et al 2007).
As train-ing data, we used the Europarl corpus which con-sists of 1,204,062 English/German sentence pairs.The baseline system was trained on the originalEnglish training data while the contrastive systemwas trained on the reordered English training data.In both systems, the same original German sen-tences were used.
We used WMT 2009 dev andtest sets to tune and test the systems.
The baselinesystem was tuned and tested on the original datawhile for the contrastive system, we used the re-ordered English side of the dev and test sets.
TheGerman 5-gram language model used in both sys-tems was trained on the WMT 2009 German lan-guage modeling data, a large German newspapercorpus consisting of 10,193,376 sentences.other tenses which could (or should) be treated in the sameway (cf.
has been developing on input 2, table 2).
We do notdo this to keep the reordering rules simple and general.730Input 1 The programme appears to be successful for published data shows that MRSA is on the decline in the UK.Reordered The programme appears successful to be for published data shows that MRSA on the decline in the UK is.Input 2 The real estate market in Bulgaria has been developing at an unbelievable rate - all of Europe has its eyeson this heretofore rarely heard-of Balkan nation.Reordered The real estate market in Bulgaria has at an unbelievable rate been developing - all of Europe has its eyeson this heretofore rarely heard-of Balkan nation.Input 3 While Bulgaria boasts the European Union?s lowest real estate prices, they have still gone up by 21 percentin the past five years.Reordered While Bulgaria the European Union?s lowest real estate prices boasts, have they still by 21 percent in thepast five years gone up.Input 4 Professionals and politicians from 192 countries are slated to discuss the Bali Roadmap that focuses onefforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions after 2012, when the Kyoto Protocol expires.Reordered Professionals and politicians from 192 countries are slated the Bali Roadmap to discuss that on effortsfocuses greenhouse gas emissions after 2012 to cut, when the Kyoto Protocol expires.Input 5 Did you know that in that same country, since 1976, 34 mentally-retarded offenders have been executed?Reordered Did you know that in that same country, since 1976, 34 mentally-retarded offenders been executed have?Table 2: Examples of reordered English sentences5.1 Applied rulesIn order to see how many English clauses are rel-evant for reordering, we derived statistics aboutclause types and the number of reordering rulesapplied on the training data.In table 3, the number of the English clauseswith all considered clause type/tense combinationare shown.
The bold numbers indicate combina-tions which are relevant to the reordering.
Over-all, 62% of all EN clauses from our training data(2,706,117 clauses) are relevant for the verb re-ordering.
Note that there is an additional categoryrest which indicates incorrect clause type/tensecombinations and might thus not be correctly re-ordered.
These are mostly due to parsing and/ortagging errors.The performance of the systems was measuredby BLEU (Papineni et al 2002).
The evaluationresults are shown in table 4.
The contrastive sys-tem outperforms the baseline.
Its BLEU score is13.63 which is a gain of 0.61 BLEU points overthe baseline.
This is a statistically significant im-provement at p<0.05 (computed with Gimpel?simplementation of the pairwise bootstrap resam-pling method (Koehn, 2004)).Manual examination of the translations pro-duced by both systems confirms the result ofthe automatic evaluation.
Many translations pro-duced by the contrastive system now have verbs inthe correct positions.
If we compare the generatedtranslations for input sentence 1 in table 5, wesee that the contrastive system generates a trans-tense MAIN EXTR SUB INT XCOMPsimple 675,095 170,806 449,631 8,739 -composed 343,178 116,729 277,733 8,817 314,573rest 98,464 5,158 90,139 306 146,746Table 3: Counts of English clause types and usedtenses.
Bold numbers indicate clause type/tense com-binations where reordering is required.Baseline ReorderedBLEU 13.02 13.63Table 4: Scores of baseline and contrastive systemslation in which all verbs are placed correctly.
Inthe baseline translation, only the translation of thefinite verb was, namely war, is placed correctly,while the translation of the main verb (diagnosed?
festgestellt) should be placed at the clause endas in the translation produced by our system.5.2 EvaluationOften, the English verbal complex is translatedonly partially by the baseline system.
For exam-ple, the English verbal complexes in sentence 2 intable 5 will climb and will drop are only partiallytranslated (will climb?
wird (will), will drop?fallen (fall)).
Moreover, the generated verbs areplaced incorrectly.
In our translation, all verbs aretranslated and placed correctly.Another problem which was often observed inthe baseline is the omission of the verbs in theGerman translations.
The baseline translation ofthe example sentence 3 in table 5 illustrates such731a case.
There is no translation of the English in-finitival verbal complex to have.
In the transla-tion generated by the contrastive system, the ver-bal complex does get translated (zu haben) andis also placed correctly.
We think this is becausethe reordering model is not able to identify theposition for the verb which is licensed by the lan-guage model, causing a hypothesis with no verbto be scored higher than the hypotheses with in-correctly placed verbs.6 Error analysis6.1 Erroneous reordering in our systemIn some cases, the reordering of the English parsetrees fails.
Most erroneous reorderings are due toa number of different parsing and tagging errors.Coordinated verbs are also problematic due totheir complexity.
Their composition can vary, andthus it would require a large number of differentreordering rules to fully capture this.
In our re-ordering script, the movement of complex struc-tures such as verbal phrases consisting of a se-quence of child nodes is not implemented (onlynodes with one child, namely the verb, verbal par-ticle or negative particle are moved).6.2 Splitting of the English verbal complexSince in many cases, the German verbal complexis discontiguous, we need to split the English ver-bal complex and move its parts into different posi-tions.
This ensures the correct placement of Ger-man verbs.
However, this does not ensure that theGerman verb forms are correct because of highlyambiguous English verbs.
In some cases, we canlose contextual information which would be use-ful for disambiguating ambiguous verbs and gen-erating the appropriate German verb forms.6.2.1 Subject?verb agreementLet us consider the English clause in (4a) and itsreordered version in (4b):(4a) ... because they have said it to me yesterday.
(4b) ... because they it to me yesterday said have.In (4b), the English verbs said have are separatedfrom the subject they.
The English said have canbe translated in several ways into German.
With-out any information about the subject (the dis-tance between the verbs and the subject can bevery large), it is relatively likely that an erroneousGerman translation is generated.On the other hand, in the baseline SMT system,the subject they is likely to be a part of a trans-lation phrase with the correct German equivalent(they have said?
sie haben gesagt).
They is thenused as a disambiguating context which is missingin the reordered sentence (but the order is wrong).6.2.2 Verb dependencyA similar problem occurs in a verbal complex:(5a) They have said it to me yesterday.
(5b) They have it to me yesterday said.In sentence (5a), the English consecutive verbshave said are a sequence consisting of a finiteauxiliary have and the past participle said.
Theyshould be translated into the corresponding Ger-man verbal complex haben gesagt.
But, if theverbs are split, we will probably get translationswhich are completely independent.
Even if theGerman auxiliary is correctly inflected, it is hardto predict how said is going to be translated.
Ifthe distance between the auxiliary habe and thehypothesized translation of said is large, the lan-guage model will not be able to help select thecorrect translation.
Here, the baseline SMT sys-tem again has an advantage as the verbs are con-secutive.
It is likely they will be found in the train-ing data and extracted with the correct Germanphrase (but the German order is again incorrect).6.3 CollocationsCollocations (verb?object pairs) are another casewhich can lead to a problem:(6a) I think that the discussion would take placelater this evening.
(6b) I think that the discussion place later thisevening take would.The English collocation in (6a) consisting of theverb take and the object place corresponds to theGerman verb stattfinden.
Without this specific ob-ject, the verb take is likely to be translated liter-ally.
In the reordered sentence, the verbal com-plex take would is indeed separated from the ob-ject place which would probably lead to the literaltranslation of both parts of the mentioned collo-cation.
So, as already described in the precedingparagraphs, an important source of contextual in-formation is lost which could ensure the correcttranslation of the given phrase.This problem is not specific to English?to?German.
For instance, the same problem occurswhen translating German into English.
If, for ex-732Input 1 An MRSA - an antibiotic resistant staphylococcus - infection was recently diagnosed in the trauma-tology ward of Ja?nos hospital.ReorderedinputAn MRSA - an antibiotic resistant staphylococcus - infection was recently in the traumatology wardof Ja?nos hospital diagnosed.BaselinetranslationEinAMRSAMRSA--einanAntibiotikumantibioticresistenterresistantStaphylococcusStaphylococcus--warwasvorbeforekurzemrecentininderthefestgestelltdiagnosedtraumatologytraumatologyWardwardvonofJa?nosJa?nosKrankenhaus.hospital.ReorderedtranslationEinAMRSAMRSA--einanAntibiotikumantibioticresistenterresistantStaphylococcusStaphylococcus--InfektioninfectionwurdewasvorbeforekurzemrecentinindenthetraumatologytraumatologyStationwardderofJa?nosJa?nosKrankenhaushospitaldiagnostiziert.diagnosed.Input 2 The ECB predicts that 2008 inflation will climb to 2.5 percent from the earlier 2.1, but will dropback to 1.9 percent in 2009.ReorderedinputThe ECB predicts that 2008 inflation to 2.5 percent from the earlier 2.1 will climb, but back to 1.9percent in 2009 will drop.BaselinetranslationDieTheEZBECBsagt,says,dassthat20082008dietheInflationsrateinflation ratewirdwillaufto2,52.5Prozentpercentausfromderthefru?herenearlier2,1,2.1,sondernbutfallenfallzuru?ckbackaufto1,91.9Prozentpercentimin theJahryear2009.2009.ReorderedtranslationDieTheEZBECBprophezeit,predicts,dassthat20082008dietheInflationinflation ratezuto2,52.5Prozentpercentausfromderthefru?herenearlier2,12.1ansteigenclimbwird,will,aberbutaufto1,91.9Prozentpercentinin20092009sinkenfallwird.will.Input 3 Labour Minister Mo?nika Lamperth appears not to have a sensitive side.R.
input Labour Minister Mo?nika Lamperth appears a sensitive side not to have .BaselinetranslationArbeitsministerLabour MinisterMo?nikaMo?nikaLamperthLamperthscheintappearsnichtnoteineasensiblesensitiveSeite.side.ReorderedtranslationArbeitsministerLabour MinisterMo?nikaMo?nikaLamperthLamperthscheintappearseineasensiblesensitiveSeitesidenichtnotzutohaben.have.Table 5: Example translations, the baseline has problems with verbal elements, reordered is correctample, the object Kauf (buying) of the colloca-tion nehmen + in Kauf (accept) is separated fromthe verb nehmen (take), they are very likely to betranslated literally (rather than as the idiom mean-ing ?to accept?
), thus leading to an erroneous En-glish translation.6.4 Error statisticsWe manually checked 100 randomly chosen En-glish sentences to see how often the problems de-scribed in the previous sections occur.
From atotal of 276 clauses, 29 were not reordered cor-rectly.
20 errors were caused by incorrect parsingand/or POS tags, while the remaining 9 are mostlydue to different kinds of coordination.
Table 6shows correctly reordered clauses which mightpose a problem for translation (see sections 6.2?6.3).
Although the positions of the verbs in thetranslations are now correct, the distance betweensubjects and verbs, or between verbs in a singleVP might lead to the generation of erroneouslyinflected verbs.
The separate generation of Ger-man verbal morphology is an interesting area offuture work, see (de Gispert and Marin?o, 2008).We also found 2 problematic collocations but notethat this only gives a rough idea of the problem,further study is needed.6.5 POS-based disambiguation of theEnglish verbsWith respect to the problems described in 6.2.1and 6.2.2, we carried out an experiment in which733total d ?
5 tokenssubject?verb 40 19verb dependency 32 14collocations 8 2Table 6: total is the number of clauses found for therespective phenomenon.
d?
5 tokens is the number ofclauses where the distance between relevant tokens isat least 5, which is problematic.Baseline + POS Reordered + POSBLEU 13.11 13.68Table 7: BLEU scores of the baseline and the con-trastive SMT system using verbal POS tagswe used POS tags in order to disambiguate theEnglish verbs.
For example, the English verb saidcorresponds to the German participle gesagt, aswell as to the finite verb in simple past, e.g.
sagte.We attached the POS tags to the English verbs inorder to simulate a disambiguating suffix of a verb(e.g.
said?
said VBN, said VBD).
The idea be-hind this was to extract the correct verbal trans-lation phrases and score them with appropriatetranslation probabilities (e.g.
p(said VBN, gesagt)> p(said VBN, sagte).We built and tested two PSMT systems usingthe data enriched with verbal POS tags.
Thefirst system is trained and tested on the originalEnglish sentences, while the contrastive one wastrained and tested on the reordered English sen-tences.
Evaluation results are shown in table 7.The baseline obtains a gain of 0.09 and the con-trastive system of 0.05 BLEU points over the cor-responding PSMT system without POS tags.
Al-though there are verbs which are now generatedcorrectly, the overall translation improvement liesunder our expectation.
We will directly model theinflection of German verbs in future work.7 Discussion and future workWe implemented reordering rules for English ver-bal complexes because their placement differssignificantly from German placement.
The imple-mentation required dealing with three importantproblems: (i) definition of the clause boundaries,(ii) identification of the new verb positions and(iii) correct splitting of the verbal complexes.We showed some phenomena for which astochastic reordering would be more appropriate.For example, since in German, the auxiliary andthe main verb of a verbal complex can occupydifferent positions in a clause, we had to definethe English counterparts of the two componentsof the German verbal complex.
We defined non-finite English verbal elements as a part of the mainverb complex which are then moved together withthe main verb.
This rigid definition could be re-laxed by considering multiple different splittingsand movements of the English verbs.Furthermore, the reordering rules are appliedon a clause not allowing for movements across theclause boundaries.
However, we also showed thatin some cases, the main verbs may be moved afterthe succeeding subclause.
Stochastic rules couldallow for both placements or carry out the moreprobable reordering given a specific context.
Wewill address these issues in future work.Unfortunately, some important contextual in-formation is lost when splitting and moving En-glish verbs.
When English verbs are highly am-biguous, erroneous German verbs can be gener-ated.
The experiment described in section 6.5shows that more effort should be made in order toovercome this problem.
The incorporation of sep-arate morphological generation of inflected Ger-man verbs would improve translation.8 ConclusionWe presented a method for reordering English as apreprocessing step for English?to?German SMT.To our knowledge, this is one of the first paperswhich reports on experiments regarding the re-ordering problem for English?to?German SMT.We showed that the reordering rules specified inthis work lead to improved translation quality.
Weobserved that verbs are placed correctly more of-ten than in the baseline, and that verbs which wereomitted in the baseline are now often generated.We carried out a thorough analysis of the rulesapplied and discussed problems which are relatedto highly ambiguous English verbs.
Finally wepresented ideas for future work.AcknowledgmentsThis work was funded by Deutsche Forschungs-gemeinschaft grant Models of Morphosyntax forStatistical Machine Translation.734ReferencesEugene Charniak and Mark Johnson.
2005.
Coarse-to-fine n-best parsing and MaxEnt discriminativereranking.
In ACL.Michael Collins, Philipp Koehn, and Ivona Kuc?erova?.2005.
Clause restructuring for statistical machinetranslation.
In ACL.Adria` de Gispert and Jose?
B. Marin?o.
2008.
On theimpact of morphology in English to Spanish statis-tical MT.
Speech Communication, 50(11-12).Chris Dyer, Smaranda Muresan, and Philip Resnik.2008.
Generalizing word lattice translation.
InACL-HLT.Dmitriy Genzel.
2010.
Automatically learningsource-side reordering rules for large scale machinetranslation.
In COLING.Deepa Gupta, Mauro Cettolo, and Marcello Federico.2007.
POS-based reordering models for statisticalmachine translation.
In Proceedings of the MachineTranslation Summit (MT-Summit).Nizar Habash.
2007.
Syntactic preprocessing for sta-tistical machine translation.
In Proceedings of theMachine Translation Summit (MT-Summit).Jason Katz-Brown, Slav Petrov, Ryan McDon-ald, Franz Och, David Talbot, Hiroshi Ichikawa,Masakazu Seno, and Hideto Kazawa.
2011.
Train-ing a parser for machine translation reordering.
InEMNLP.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch,Chris Callison-Burch, Marcello Federico, NicolaBertoldi, Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, ChristineMoran, Richard Zens, Chris Dyer, Ondrej Bojar,Alexandra Constantin, and Evan Herbst.
2007.Moses: Open source toolkit for statistical machinetranslation.
In ACL, Demonstration Program.Philipp Koehn.
2004.
Statistical significance tests formachine translation evaluation.
In EMNLP.Jan Niehues and Muntsin Kolss.
2009.
A POS-basedmodel for long-range reorderings in SMT.
In EACLWorkshop on Statistical Machine Translation.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, andWei-Jing Zhu.
2002.
BLEU: a method for auto-matic evaluation of machine translation.
In ACL.Peng Xu, Jaecho Kang, Michael Ringgaard, and FranzOch.
2009.
Using a dependency parser to improveSMT for subject-object-verb languages.
In NAACL.735
