Proceedings of the EACL 2012 Student Research Workshop, pages 81?89,Avignon, France, 26 April 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsImproving Machine Translation of Null Subjects in Italian and SpanishLorenza Russo, Sharid Loa?iciga, Asheesh GulatiLanguage Technology Laboratory (LATL)Department of Linguistics ?
University of Geneva2, rue de Candolle ?
CH-1211 Geneva 4 ?
Switzerland{lorenza.russo, sharid.loaiciga, asheesh.gulati}@unige.chAbstractNull subjects are non overtly expressedsubject pronouns found in pro-drop lan-guages such as Italian and Spanish.
Inthis study we quantify and compare the oc-currence of this phenomenon in these twolanguages.
Next, we evaluate null sub-jects?
translation into French, a ?non pro-drop?
language.
We use the Europarl cor-pus to evaluate two MT systems on theirperformance regarding null subject trans-lation: Its-2, a rule-based system devel-oped at LATL, and a statistical systembuilt using the Moses toolkit.
Then weadd a rule-based preprocessor and a sta-tistical post-editor to the Its-2 translationpipeline.
A second evaluation of the im-proved Its-2 system shows an average in-crease of 15.46% in correct pro-drop trans-lations for Italian-French and 12.80% forSpanish-French.1 IntroductionRomance languages are characterized by somemorphological and syntactical similarities.
Ital-ian and Spanish, the two languages we are inter-ested in here, share the null subject parameter,also called the pro-drop parameter, among othercharacteristics.
The null subject parameter refersto whether the subject of a sentence is overtly ex-pressed or not (Haegeman, 1994).
In other words,due to their rich morphology, Italian and Span-ish allow non lexically-realized subject pronouns(also called null subjects, zero pronouns or pro-drop).1From a monolingual point of view, regardingSpanish, previous work by Ferra?ndez and Peral1Henceforth, the terms will be used indiscriminately.
(2000) has shown that 46% of verbs in their testcorpus had their subjects omitted.
Continuationof this work by Rello and Ilisei (2009) has foundthat in a corpus of 2,606 sentences, there were1,042 sentences without overtly expressed pro-nouns, which represents an average of 0.54 nullsubjects per sentence.
As for Italian, many anal-yses are available from a descriptive and theoret-ical perspective (Rizzi, 1986; Cardinaletti, 1994,among others), but to the best of our knowledge,there are no corpus studies about the extent thisphenomenon has.2Moreover, althought null elements have beenlargely treated within the context of AnaphoraResolution (AR) (Mitkov, 2002; Le Nagard andKoehn, 2010), the problem of translating fromand into a pro-drop language has only been dealtwith indirectly within the specific context of MT,as Gojun (2010) points out.We address three goals in this paper: i) to com-pare the occurrence of a same syntactic feature inItalian and Spanish, ii) to evaluate the translationof null subjects into French, that is, a ?non pro-drop?
language; and, iii) to improve the transla-tion of null subjects in a rule-based MT system.Next sections follow the above scheme.2 Null subjects in source corporaWe worked with the Europarl corpus (Koehn,2005) in order to have a parallel comparative cor-pus for Italian and Spanish.
From this corpus,we manually analyzed 1,000 sentences in bothlanguages.
From these 1,000 sentences (26,757words for Italian, 27,971 words for Spanish), weidentified 3,422 verbs for Italian and 3,184 for2Poesio et al (2004) and Rodr?
?guez et al (2010), for in-stance, focused on anaphora and deixis.81Spanish.
We then counted the occurrences ofverbs with pro-drop and classified them in twocategories: personal pro-drop3 and impersonalpro-drop4, obtaining a total amount of 1,041 pro-drop in Italian and 1,312 in Spanish.
Table 1shows the results in percentage terms.Total Pers.
Impers.
TotalVerbs pro-droppro-droppro-dropIT 3,422 18.41% 12.01% 30.42%ES 3,182 23.33% 17.84% 41.17%Table 1: Results obtained in the detection of pro-drop.Results show a higher rate of pro-drop in Span-ish (10.75%).
It has 4.92% more personal pro-drop and 5.83% more impersonal pro-drop thanItalian.
The contrast of personal pro-drop is due toa syntactic difference between the two languages.In Spanish, sentences like (1a.)
make use of twopro-drop pronouns while the same syntactic struc-ture uses a pro-drop pronoun and an infinitiveclause in Italian (1b.
), hence, the presence of morepersonal pro-drop in Spanish.
(1) a. ES pro le pido (1.sg) que pro inter-venga (3.sg) con el prestigio de sucargo.b.
IT pro le chiedo (1.sg) di intervenire(inf.)
con il prestigio della sua carica.I ask you to intervene with the pres-tige of your position.The difference of impersonal pro-drop, on theother hand, is due to the Spanish use of an im-personal construction (2a.)
with the ?se?
parti-cle.
Spanish follows the schema ?se + finite verb+ non-finite verb?
; Italian follows the schema ?fi-nite verb + essere (to be) + past participle?
(2b.
).We considered this construction formed by onemore verb in Italian than in Spanish as shown inexamples (2a.)
and (2b.).
This also explains thedifference in the total amount of verbs (Table 1).
(2) a. ES Se podra?
corregir.b.
IT Potra` essere modificato.It can be modified.3Finite verbs with genuinely referential subjects (i.e.
I,you, s/he, we, they).4Finite verbs with non-referential subjects (i.e.
it).We found a total number of non-expressed pro-nouns in our corpus comparable to those obtainedby Rodr?
?guez et al (2010) on the Live Memo-ries corpus for Italian and by Recasens and Mart??
(2010) on the Spanish AnCora-Co corpus (Table2).
Note that in both of these studies, they wereinterested in co-reference links, hence they didnot annotate impersonal pronouns, claiming theyare rare.
On the other hand, we took all the pro-drop pronouns into account, including impersonalones.Corpus Language ResultOur corpus IT 3.89%Live Memories IT 4.5%Our corpus ES 4.69%AnCora-Co ES 6.36%Table 2: Null-subjects in our corpus compared to LiveMemories and AnCora-Co corpora.
Percentages arecalculated with respect to the total number of words.3 Baseline machine translation of nullsubjectsThe 1,000 sentences of our corpus were trans-lated from both languages into French (IT?FR;ES?FR) in order to assess if personal pro-dropand impersonal pro-drop were correctly identi-fied and translated.
We tested two systems: Its-2(Wehrli et al, 2009), a rule-based MT system de-veloped at the LATL; and a statistical system builtusing the Moses toolkit out of the box (Koehn etal., 2007).
The latter was trained on 55,000 sen-tence pairs from the Europarl corpus and tuned on2,000 additional sentence pairs, and includes a 3-gram language model.Tables 3 and 4 show percentages of correct, in-correct and missing translations of personal andimpersonal null subjects calculated on the basis ofthe number of personal and impersonal pro-dropfound in the corpus.We considered the translation correct when thenull pronoun is translated by an overt pronounwith the correct gender, person and number fea-tures in French; otherwise, we considered it in-correct.
Missing translation refers to cases wherethe null pronoun is not generated at all in the tar-get language.We chose these criteria because they allow usto evaluate the single phenomenon of null subject82Its-2Pair Pro-drop Correct Incorrect Missingpersonal 66.34% 3.49% 30.15%IT?FR impersonal 16.78% 18.97% 64.23%average 46.78% 9.6% 43.61%personal 55.79% 3.50% 40.70%ES?FR impersonal 29.29% 11.40% 59.29%average 44.28% 6.93% 48.78%Table 3: Percentages of correct, incorrect and missing translation of zero-pronouns obtained by Its-2.
Average iscalculated on the basis of total pro-drop in corpus.MosesPair Pro-drop Correct Incorrect Missingpersonal 71.59% 1.11% 27.30%IT?FR impersonal 44.76% 11.43% 43.79%average 61% 5.18% 33.81%personal 72.64% 2.02% 25.34%ES?FR impersonal 54.56% 2.45% 42.98%average 64.78% 2.21% 33%Table 4: Percentages of correct, incorrect and missing translation of zero-pronouns obtained by Moses.
Averageis calculated on the basis of total pro-drop in corpus.translation.
BLEU and similar MT metrics com-pute scores over a text as a whole.
For the samereason, human evaluation metrics based on ade-quacy and fluency were not suitable either (Koehnand Monz, 2006).Moses generally outperforms Its-2 (Tables 3and 4).
Results for the two systems demon-strate that instances of personal pro-drop are bet-ter translated than impersonal pro-drop for thetwo languages.
Since rates of missing pronounstranslations are considerable, especially for Its-2,results also indicate that both systems have prob-lems resolving non-expressed pronouns for theirgeneration in French.
A detailed description foreach system follows.3.1 Results ?
Its-2Its-2 obtains better results for IT?FR personalpro-drop (66.34%) than for ES?FR (55.79%),but worse for impersonal pro-drop translation(16.78% and 29.29% respectively, Table 3).For IT?FR translation in particular, Its-2 usu-ally translates an Italian personal pro-drop withan overt pronoun of incorrect gender in French.In fact, it tends to translate a female personal pro-drop with a masculine overt pronoun.
This prob-lem is closely related with that of AR: as the sys-tem does not have any module for AR, it cannotdetect the gender of the antecedent, rendering thecorrect translation infeasible.The number of correct translation of imper-sonal pro-drop is very low for both pairs.
ES?FRreached 29.29%, while IT?FR only 16.78% (Ta-ble 3).
The reason for these percentages is a reg-ular mistranslation or a missing translation.
Asfor the mistranslation, in the case of Spanish,Its-2 translates the ?se?
pronoun in impersonalsentences by the French sequence qui est-ce que(who) (3).
We attribute this behaviour to a lack ofgeneration rules.
(3) ES Por consiguiente, mi grupo so-licita que se suprima este punto deld?
?a.FR Par conse?quent, mon groupe sol-licite qu?on supprime ce point del?agenda.ITS-2 * Par conse?quent, mon groupesollicite qui est-ce que supprime cepoint du jour.Therefore, my group ask to delete thispoint from the agenda.83With respects to missing pronouns in the tar-get language (Table 3), percentages are quite highin both translation pairs (43.61% and 48.78% av-erage missing pronouns respectively), especiallywith impersonal pro-drop.
Let us take the exem-ple of ES?FR translation (59.29% missing pro-nouns): Its-2 never generates the French expletivepronouns ?ce, c?, c?a?
(it) (4a.).
For IT?FR trans-lation (64.23% missing pronouns), it almost nevergenerates the French pronoun ?il?
(it) for the im-personal 3rd person pro-drop pronoun in Italian(4b.
).However, if the system generates the pronoun,it is likely to be a first or a second person singularpronoun (?je, tu?
?
I, you) in French, increasingthen the percentages of incorrectly translated im-personal pro-drop.
(4) a. ES No es pedir demasiado.FR Ce n?est pas trop demander.ITS-2 * Pas est demander trop.It is not too much to ask.b.
IT E` vero che [.
.
.
].FR Il est vrai que [.
.
.
].ITS-2 * Vrai que [.
.
.
].It is true that [.
.
.
].3.2 Results ?
MosesMoses produces the highest percentage of cor-rect translations for both personal and impersonalpro-drop, particularly in ES?FR (72.64% and54.56% respectively, Table 4).When translating personal pro-drop from Ital-ian, sometimes the system generates infinitiveforms instead of finite verbs (5).
(5) IT Naturalmente accettiamo questoemendamento.FR Bien su?r, nous acceptons cetamendement.MOSES Bien su?r accepter cetamendement.Of course, we accept this amend-ment.When translating impersonal pro-drop fromItalian, it performs worse (44.76%) because ittends not to generate the expletive pronoun (6).Furthermore, for both source languages, Mosestranslates the impersonal pro-drop usually corre-(6) IT Vorrei, come mi e` stato chiesto daalcuni colleghi, osservare un minutodi silenzio.FR J?aimerais, comme il m?a e?te?
de-mande?
par certains colle`gues, ob-server une minute de silence.MOSES J?aimerais, comme m?a e?te?demande?
par certains colle`gues, ob-server une minute de silence.I would like, as some collegues askedme, to observe a minute of silence.sponding to French pronoun ?on?
as the first plu-ral personal pronoun (?nous?
?
we) (7a.
and 7b.).
(7) a.
IT Io credo che si debba dare laprecedenza alla sicurezza.FR Je crois qu?on doit donner la pri-orite?
a` la se?curite?.MOSES Je crois que nous devonsdonner la priorite?
a` la se?curite?.I think that priority should be givento the safety.b.
ES Como han demostrado los even-tos recientes, queda mucho por hacersobre este tema.FR Comme l?ont montre?
lese?ve?nements re?cents, on a encorebeaucoup a` faire sur ce the`me.MOSES Comme l?ont montre?
lese?ve?nements re?cents, nous avons en-core beaucoup a` faire sur ce the`me.As it has been shown by recentevents, there is much left to do on thissubject.4 Its-2 improvementsOn the basis of this first evaluation, we tried to im-prove Its-2 pronoun generation when translatingfrom Italian and Spanish.
Two new componentswere added to the translation pipeline: a rule-based preprocessor, and a statistical post-editor.This section presents them in detail, along withthe resources they rely on.4.1 Rule-based preprocessingPreprocessing of input data is a very common taskin natural language processing.
Statistical sys-tems often benefit from linguistic preprocessing84to deal with rich morphology and long distance re-ordering issues (Sadat and Habash, 2006; Habash,2007).
In our case, the idea behind this first com-ponent is to help the translation process of a rule-based system by reducing the amount of zero pro-nouns in the source document5, ensuring that sub-ject pronouns get properly transferred to the targetlanguage.In order to assess the effect of this approach, weimplemented a rule-based preprocessor taking asinput a document in Italian or Spanish and return-ing as output the same document with droppedsubject pronouns restored.
It relies on two re-sources: a list of personal and impersonal verbs,and a part-of-speech tagging of the source docu-ment.
We first present these two resources beforedescribing the approach in more detail.List of personal and impersonal verbsThis list simply contains surface forms ofverbs.
For our experiment, these forms wereextracted from a subset of the Europarl corpus,where pro-drop verbs were manually annotatedas taking a personal pronoun or an impersonalpronoun.
This limits the coverage, but ensuresdomain-specific verb usage.Part-of-speech tagging of the source documentIts-2, being a transfer-based system, relies ona parser to construct the syntactic structure of thesource language and, from there, it transfers thesyntactic structure onto the target language.
Its-2 uses Fips (Wehrli, 2007), a multilingual parseralso developed at LATL.
Apart from the projec-tion of syntactic structures, Fips produces part-of-speech tagging.Outline of the approachThese are the steps followed by the preproces-sor:1.
Read a part-of-speech tagged sentence.2.
Whenever a verb with no subject is encoun-tered, check if it is a personal verb or an im-personal verb.5In Italian and Spanish, even if a native speaker wouldnot use subject pronouns in a given sentence, the same sen-tence with overtly expressed subject pronouns is grammati-cal.
There might be a pragmatic difference, as pronouns areused in these languages when emphasis or contrast is desired(Haegeman, 1994).3.
If it is a personal verb, generate the appropri-ate pronoun before the verb (the masculineform is generated for the third person); if itis an impersonal verb, do not generate anypronoun.4.
Check the sentence for reordering accordingto syntactic rules of the target language (e.g.move the generated pronoun before a pro-clitic already preceding the verb).An example of preprocessed sentences is givenin Figure 1.4.2 Statistical post-editingSince the work of Simard et al (2007a), statisti-cal post-editing (SPE) has become a very populartechnique in the domain of hybrid MT.
The ideais to train a statistical phrase-based system in or-der to improve the output of a rule-based system.The statistical post-editing component is trainedon a corpus comprising machine translated sen-tences on the source side (translations producedby the underlying rule-based system), and theircorresponding reference translations on the targetside.
In a sense, SPE ?translates?
from imperfecttarget language to target language.
Both quantita-tive and qualitative evaluations have shown thatSPE can achieve significant improvements overthe output of the underlying rule-based system(Simard et al, 2007b; Schwenk et al, 2009).We decided to incorporate a post-editing com-ponent in order to assess if this approach canspecifically address the issue of dropped subjectpronouns.
We first present the training corpus be-fore describing the approach in more detail.Training corpusTo train the translation model, we translated asubset of the Europarl corpus using Its-2.
Thetranslations were then aligned with correspond-ing reference translations, resulting in a paral-lel corpus for each language pair, composed of976 sentences for IT?FR and 1,005 sentencesfor ES?FR.
We opted for machine translationsalso on the target side, rather than human refer-ence translations, in order to ascertain if a paral-lel corpus produced in such a way, with signif-icantly lesser cost and time requirements, couldbe an effective alternative for specific natural lan-guage processing tasks.85Source in Italian pro La ringrazio, onorevole Segni, pro lo faro` volentieri.Preprocessed Io la ringrazio , onorevole Segni , io lo faro` volentieri .I thank you, Mr. Segni, I will do it willingly.Source in Spanish Todo ello, de conformidad con los principios que pro siempre hemos apoyado.Preprocessed Todo ello, de conformidad con los principios que nosotros siempre hemosapoyado.All this, according to the principles we have always supported.Figure 1: Output of the preprocessor: the pronoun in the first sentence is generated before the proclitic lo, andthe pronoun in the second sentence is generated before the adverb ?siempre?
(always).We reused the language model trained for theMoses experiment of Section 3.Outline of the approachWe trained the SPE component using theMoses toolkit out of the box.
With this setup, thefinal translation in French of a source sentence inItalian or Spanish can be obtained in two simplesteps:1.
Translate a sentence using Its-2.2.
Give the translated sentence as input to theSPE component; the output of the SPE com-ponent is the final translation.An example of post-edited translations is givenin Figure 2.4.3 Combination of preprocessing andpost-editingThe two components described in the previoussections can be used separately, or combined to-gether as the first and last elements of the sametranslation pipeline.
With respect to the gen-eration of pronouns, error analysis showed thatthe setup producing the best translations was in-deed the combination of preprocessing and post-editing, which was therefore used in the full post-evaluation described in the next section.
The ex-ample in Figure 3 illustrates progressive improve-ments (with respect to the generation of pronouns)achieved by using preprocessing and post-editingover the baseline Its-2 translation.5 Post-evaluationAfter adding the two components, we manuallyre-evaluated the translations of the same 1,000sentences.
Table 5 show percentages of correct,incorrect and missing translation of null subjectsin a comparative way: the first columns show per-centages obtained by the baseline Its-2 system6while the second columns show percentages ob-tained by the improved system.Results show higher percentages of correct pro-drop translation for both language pairs, withan average increase of 15.46% for IT?FR, and12.80% for ES?FR.
Specifically, percentagesof personal pro-drop translation for both pairsincreased almost the same rate: 13.18% forIT?FR; 13.34% for ES?FR.
It was not the casefor impersonal pro-drop, where rates of the firstpair augmented (18.98%), while the latter de-creased (12.11%).We explain this behaviour to a particular dif-ficulty encountered when translating from Span-ish, a language that largely prefers subjunctivemood clauses to other structures such as infinitiveclauses.
The problem arises because subjunctivetenses have a less distinctive morphology, with thesame conjugation for the first and third person sin-gular (9).
(9) ES pro le pido (1.sg) que pro estudie(3.sg) un borrador de carta.FR Je vous demande d?e?tudier unbrouillon de lettre.ITS-2 *Je (1.sg) demande quej?e?tudie (1.sg) un brouillon de charte.I ask you to study a draft letter.As a consequence of the improvement of per-sonal pro-drop, only incorrect impersonal pro-drop translations decreased (Table 5).
Indeed,if we consider personal pro-drop translation, wethink that by means of restoring the pronouns forfinite verbs, we also amplified the issue of AR.For instance, Italian uses the third singular person6These percentages have already been discussed in sec-tion 3 and, in particular, in Table 3.86Its-2 translation Vous invite a` voter a` faveur de l?amendement approuve?
a` l?unanimite?
[.
.
.
].Post-edited Je vous invite a` voter en faveur de l?amendement approuve?
a` l?
unanimite?
[.
.
.
].I invite you to vote in favour of the amendment unanimously approved [.
.
.
].Its-2 translation Je madame Pre?sidente, voudrais re?clamer l?attention sur un cas [.
.
.
].Post-edited Madame la Pre?sidente, je voudrais re?clamer l?attention sur un cas [.
.
.
].Madam President, I would like to draw the attention on a case [.
.
.
].Figure 2: Output of the post-editor: the pronoun in the first sentence is restored, and the pronoun in the secondsentence is moved to the correct position.Source in Italian pro E?
la prima volta che pro intervengo in Plenaria e pro devo ammettere diessere molto emozionato [.
.
.
].Preprocessed E?
la prima volta che io intervengo in Plenaria e io devo ammettere di esseremolto emozionato [.
.
.
].Baseline Qu?est la premie`re fois qu?intervient dans *Plenaria et admettre de m?estbeaucoup e?mus [.
.
.
].Translation-after preprocessing Est la premie`re fois que j?interviens dans *Plenaria et j?admettre d?est beau-coup e?mus [.
.
.
].-with post-editing Qu ?est la premie`re fois qu?
intervient en ple?nie`re ont et admettre de s ?esttre`s e?mus [.
.
.
].-using both C ?est la premie`re fois que j?
interviens en ple?nie`re ont et j ?admettre d?
esttre`s e?mus [.
.
.
].It is the first time that I speak in the Plenary session and I admit to being[.
.
.
].Figure 3: Comparison of translation outputs: preprocessing leads to a better analysis of the sentence by Fips,as suggested by the presence of the pronouns ?j??
(I), absent in the baseline translation, and post-editing furtherrestores successfully the missing impersonal pronoun ?C??
(It), whereas post-editing without preprocessing hasno effect on pronoun generation.Baseline Its-2 Improved Its-2Pair Pro-drop Correct Incorrect Missing Correct Incorrect Missingpersonal 66.34% 3.49% 30.15% 79.52% 5.87% 14.60%IT?FR impersonal 16.78% 18.97% 64.23% 35.76% 13.13% 51.09%average 46.78% 9.6% 43.61% 62.24% 8.73% 29%personal 55.79% 3.50% 40.70% 69.13% 7.81% 23.04%ES?FR impersonal 29.29% 11.40% 59.29% 41.40% 8.07% 50.52%average 44.28% 6.93% 48.78% 57.08% 7.92% 34.98%Table 5: Percentages of correct, incorrect and missing translation of zero-pronouns.
Results obtained by im-proved Its-2.
Average is calculated on the basis of total pro-drop in corpus.(?lei?)
as a form of polite treatment, while Frenchuses the second plural person (?vous?
); however,Its-2 translates a restored pronoun for a finite verbin the third singular person as a finite verb in thethird singular person in French too (8).Gender discrepancies are an AR issue as well.For IT?FR, the problem of a female personalpro-drop translated by a masculine overt pronounin French still remains.Finally, rates of missing pronouns also de-creased.
In this case, improvements are signif-icant: we obtained a gain of 14.61% for theIT?FR pair and 13.8% for the ES?FR pair.Specifically, we obtained better improvementsfor personal pro-drop than for impersonal pro-drop.
For the latter we think that rates decreased87(8) IT Signora Presidente, mi permetta diparlare.FR Madame la Pre?sidente,permettez-moi de parler.ITS-2 Madame la Pre?sidente,permet-moi de parler.Madam President, let me speak.thanks only to the post-editing phase.
Indeed, asboth Italian and Spanish do not have any pos-sible overt pronoun to be restored in the pre-processing phase, any improvement responds tochanges made by the post-editor.
On the otherhand, improvements obtained for personal pro-drop translation confirm that the combination ofthe pre-processing and the post-editing togethercan be very advantageous, as already discussed insection 4.3.6 Future workAs already mentioned, we have not found the so-lution to some problems yet.First of all, we would like to include an ARmodule in our system.
As it is a rule-base sys-tem, some problems as the subject pronoun mis-translation in subordinated sentences can be fixedby means of more specific rules and heuristics.Besides, an approach based on binding theory(Bu?ring, 2005) could be effective as deep syntac-tic information is available, even though limited.For example, binding theory does not contain anyformalization on gender, reason why a specificstatistical component could be a more ideal op-tion in order to tackle aspects such as mascu-line/feminine pronouns.Secondly, an overt pronoun cannot be restoredfrom a finite impersonal verb without making thesentence ungrammatical; therefore, our approachis not useful for treating impersonal sentences.
Asa consequence, we think that an annotation of theempty category, as done by Chung and Gildea(2010), could provide better results.Also, in order to correctly render the meaningof a preprocessed sentence, we plan to mark re-stored subject pronouns in such a way that theinformation about their absence/presence in theoriginal text is preserved as a feature in parsingand translation.Finally, we would like to use a larger corpus totrain the SPE component and compare the effectsof utilizing machine translations on the target sideversus human reference translations.
Besides, wewould like to further explore variations on theplain SPE technique, for example, by injectingMoses translation of sentences being translatedinto the phrase-table of the post-editor (Chen andEisele, 2010).7 ConclusionIn this paper we measured and compared the oc-currence of one syntactic feature ?
the null sub-ject parameter ?
in Italian and Spanish.
We alsoevaluated its translation into a ?non pro-drop?
lan-guage, that is, French, obtaining better results forpersonal pro-drop than for impersonal pro-drop,for both Its-2 and Moses, the two MT systems wetested.We then improved the rule-based system us-ing a rule-based preprocessor to restore pro-dropas overt pronouns and a statistical post-editor tocorrect the translation.
Results obtained from thesecond evaluation showed an improvement in thetranslation of both sorts of pronouns.
In particu-lar, the system now generates more pronouns inFrench than before, confirming the advantage ofusing a combination of preprocessing and post-editing with rule-based machine translation.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been supported in part by the SwissNational Science Foundation (grant No 100015-130634).ReferencesDaniel Bu?ring.
2005.
Binding Theory.
CambridgeTextbooks in Linguistics.Anna Cardinaletti.
1994.
Subject Position.
GenGenP,2(1):64?78.Yu Chen and Andreas Eisele.
2010.
HierarchicalHybrid Translation between English and German.In Proceedings of the 14th Annual Conference ofthe European Association for Machine Translation,pages 90?97.Tagyoung Chung and Daniel Gildea.
2010.
Effectsof Empty Categories on Machine Translation.
InProceedings of the 2010 Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP?10, pages 636?645.Antonio Ferra?ndez and Jesu?s Peral.
2000.
A Com-putational Approach to Zero-pronouns in Spanish.In Proceedings of the 38th Annual Meeting of the88Association for Computational Linguistics, pages166?172.Anita Gojun.
2010.
Null Subjects in Statistical Ma-chine Translation: A Case Study on Aligning En-glish and Italian Verb Phrases with Pronominalsubjects.
Diplomarbeit, Institut fu?r MaschinelleSprachverarbeitung, University of Stuttgart.Nizar Habash.
2007.
Syntactic Preprocessing for Sta-tistical Machine Translation.
In Proceedings of Ma-chine Translation Summit XI, pages 215?222.Liliane Haegeman.
1994.
Introduction to Governmentand Binding Theory.
Blackwell Publishers.Philipp Koehn and Christof Monz.
2006.
Manualand Automatic Evaluation of Machine Translationbetween European Languages.
In Proceedings onthe HTL-NAACL Workshop on Statistical MachineTranslation, pages 102?121.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoli,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran,Richard Zens, Christopher J. Dyer, Ondr?ej Bojar,Alexandra Constantin, and Evan Herbst.
2007.Moses: Open Source Toolkit for Statistical Ma-chine Translation.
In Proceedings of the 45th An-nual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics Companion Volume Proceedings of theDemo and Poster Sessions, pages 177?180.
Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A Parallel Corpus forStatistical Machine Translation.
In Proceedings ofthe 10th Machine Translation Summit (MT SummitX).Ronan Le Nagard and Philipp Koehn.
2010.
AidingPronoun Translation with Co-Reference Resolution.In Proceedings of the Joint 5th Workshop on Statis-tical Machine Translation, pages 258?267.Ruslan Mitkov.
2002.
Anaphora Resolution.
Long-man.Massimo Poesio, Rodolfo Delmonte, Antonella Bris-tot, Luminita Chiran, and Sara Ronelli.
2004.
TheVENEX corpus of anaphora and deixis in spokenand written Italian.
In Manuscript.Marta Recasens and M. Anto`nia Mart??.
2010.AnCora-CO: Coreferentially Annotated Corporafor Spanish and Catalan.
Language Resources andEvaluation, 44(4):315?345.Luz Rello and Iustina Ilisei.
2009.
A Rule-BasedApproach to the Identification of Spanish Zero Pro-nouns.
In Proceedings of Student Research Work-shop, RANLP, pages 60?65.Luigi Rizzi.
1986.
Null Objects in Italian and theTheory of pro.
Linguistic Inquiry, 17(3):501?557.Kepa J.
Rodr?
?guez, Francesca Delogu, Yannick Vers-ley, Egon W. Stemle, and Massimo Poesio.
2010.Anaphoric Annotation of Wikipedia and Blogsin the Live Memories Corpus.
In Proceedingsof the Seventh International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC), Valletta,Malta.
European Language Resources Association(ELRA).Fatiha Sadat and Nizar Habash.
2006.
Combination ofArabic Preprocessing Schemes for Statistical Ma-chine Translation.
In Proceedings of the 21st Inter-national Conference on Computational Linguisticsand 44th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 1?8.Holger Schwenk, Sadaf Abdul-Rauf, Lo?
?c Barrault,and Jean Senellart.
2009.
SMT and SPE MachineTranslation Systems for WMT?09.
In Proceedingsof the 4th Workshop on Statistical Machine Trans-lation, pages 130?134.Michel Simard, Cyril Goutte, and Pierre Isabelle.2007a.
Statistical Phrase-based Post-editing.
InProceedings of NAACL HLT 2007, pages 508?515.Michel Simard, Nicola Ueffing, Pierre Isabelle, andRoland Kuhn.
2007b.
Rule-based Translation WithStatistical Phrase-based Post-editing.
In Proceed-ings of the 2nd Workshop on Statistical MachineTranslation, pages 203?206, June.Eric Wehrli, Luka Nerima, and Yves Scherrer.
2009.Deep Linguistic Multilingual Translation and Bilin-gual Dictionaries.
In Proceedings of the FourthWorkshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pages90?94.Eric Wehrli.
2007.
Fips, a ?Deep?
Linguistic Multi-lingual Parser.
In Proceedings of the Workshop onDeep Linguistic Processing, pages 120?127.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.89
