Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 25?30,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsONTS: ?Optima?
News Translation SystemMarco Turchi?, Martin Atkinson?, Alastair Wilcox+, Brett Crawley,Stefano Bucci+, Ralf Steinberger?
and Erik Van der Goot?European Commission - Joint Research Centre (JRC), IPSC - GlobeSecVia Fermi 2749, 21020 Ispra (VA) - Italy?[name].[surname]@jrc.ec.europa.eu+[name].
[surname]@ext.jrc.ec.europa.eubrettcrawley@gmail.comAbstractWe propose a real-time machine translationsystem that allows users to select a newscategory and to translate the related livenews articles from Arabic, Czech, Danish,Farsi, French, German, Italian, Polish, Por-tuguese, Spanish and Turkish into English.The Moses-based system was optimised forthe news domain and differs from otheravailable systems in four ways: (1) Newsitems are automatically categorised on thesource side, before translation; (2) Namedentity translation is optimised by recog-nising and extracting them on the sourceside and by re-inserting their translation inthe target language, making use of a sep-arate entity repository; (3) News titles aretranslated with a separate translation sys-tem which is optimised for the specific styleof news titles; (4) The system was opti-mised for speed in order to cope with thelarge volume of daily news articles.1 IntroductionBeing able to read news from other countries andwritten in other languages allows readers to bebetter informed.
It allows them to detect nationalnews bias and thus improves transparency anddemocracy.
Existing online translation systemssuch as Google Translate and Bing Translator1are thus a great service, but the number of docu-ments that can be submitted is restricted (Googlewill even entirely stop their service in 2012) andsubmitting documents means disclosing the users?interests and their (possibly sensitive) data to theservice-providing company.1http://translate.google.com/ and http://www.microsofttranslator.com/For these reasons, we have developed ourin-house machine translation system ONTS.
Itstranslation results will be publicly accessible aspart of the Europe Media Monitor family of ap-plications, (Steinberger et al 2009), which gatherand process about 100,000 news articles per dayin about fifty languages.
ONTS is based onthe open source phrase-based statistical machinetranslation toolkit Moses (Koehn et al 2007),trained mostly on freely available parallel cor-pora and optimised for the news domain, as statedabove.
The main objective of developing our in-house system is thus not to improve translationquality over the existing services (this would bebeyond our possibilities), but to offer our users arough translation (a ?gist?)
that allows them to getan idea of the main contents of the article and todetermine whether the news item at hand is rele-vant for their field of interest or not.A similar news-focused translation service is?Found in Translation?
(Turchi et al 2009),which gathers articles in 23 languages and trans-lates them into English.
?Found in Translation?
isalso based on Moses, but it categorises the newsafter translation and the translation process is notoptimised for the news domain.2 Europe Media MonitorEurope Media Monitor (EMM)2 gathers a dailyaverage of 100,000 news articles in approximately50 languages, from about 3,400 hand-selectedweb news sources, from a couple of hundred spe-cialist and government websites, as well as fromabout twenty commercial news providers.
It vis-its the news web sites up to every five minutes to2http://emm.newsbrief.eu/overview.html25search for the latest articles.
When news sites of-fer RSS feeds, it makes use of these, otherwiseit extracts the news text from the often complexHTML pages.
All news items are converted toUnicode.
They are processed in a pipeline struc-ture, where each module adds additional informa-tion.
Independently of how files are written, thesystem uses UTF-8-encoded RSS format.Inside the pipeline, different algorithms are im-plemented to produce monolingual and multilin-gual clusters and to extract various types of in-formation such as named entities, quotations, cat-egories and more.
ONTS uses two modules ofEMM: the named entity recognition and the cate-gorization parts.2.1 Named Entity Recognition and VariantMatching.Named Entity Recognition (NER) is per-formed using manually constructed language-independent rules that make use of language-specific lists of trigger words such as titles(president), professions or occupations (tennisplayer, playboy), references to countries, regions,ethnic or religious groups (French, Bavarian,Berber, Muslim), age expressions (57-year-old),verbal phrases (deceased), modifiers (former)and more.
These patterns can also occur incombination and patterns can be nested to capturemore complex titles, (Steinberger and Pouliquen,2007).
In order to be able to cover many differentlanguages, no other dictionaries and no parsers orpart-of-speech taggers are used.To identify which of the names newly foundevery day are new entities and which ones aremerely variant spellings of entities already con-tained in the database, we apply a language-independent name similarity measure to decidewhich name variants should be automaticallymerged, for details see (Pouliquen and Stein-berger, 2009).
This allows us to maintain adatabase containing over 1,15 million named en-tities and 200,000 variants.
The major part ofthis resource can be downloaded from http://langtech.jrc.it/JRC-Names.html2.2 Category Classification acrossLanguages.All news items are categorized into hundreds ofcategories.
Category definitions are multilingual,created by humans and they include geographicregions such as each country of the world, organi-zations, themes such as natural disasters or secu-rity, and more specific classes such as earthquake,terrorism or tuberculosis,Articles fall into a given category if they sat-isfy the category definition, which consists ofBoolean operators with optional vicinity opera-tors and wild cards.
Alternatively, cumulativepositive or negative weights and a threshold canbe used.
Uppercase letters in the category defi-nition only match uppercase words, while lower-case words in the definition match both uppercaseand lowercase words.
Many categories are de-fined with input from the users themselves.
Thismethod to categorize the articles is rather sim-ple and user-friendly, and it lends itself to dealingwith many languages, (Steinberger et al 2009).3 News Translation SystemIn this section, we describe our statistical machinetranslation (SMT) service based on the open-source toolkit Moses (Koehn et al 2007) and itsadaptation to translation of news items.Which is the most suitable SMT system forour requirements?
The main goal of our systemis to help the user understand the content of an ar-ticle.
This means that a translated article is evalu-ated positively even if it is not perfect in the targetlanguage.
Dealing with such a large number ofsource languages and articles per day, our systemshould take into account the translation speed, andtry to avoid using language-dependent tools suchas part-of-speech taggers.Inside the Moses toolkit, three differentstatistical approaches have been implemented:phrase based statistical machine translation (PB-SMT) (Koehn et al 2003), hierarchical phrasebased statistical machine translation (Chiang,2007) and syntax-based statistical machine trans-lation (Marcu et al 2006).
To identify themost suitable system for our requirements, werun a set of experiments training the three mod-els with Europarl V4 German-English (Koehn,2005) and optimizing and testing on the Newscorpus (Callison-Burch et al 2009).
For all ofthem, we use their default configurations and theyare run under the same condition on the same ma-chine to better evaluate translation time.
For thesyntax model we use linguistic information onlyon the target side.
According to our experiments,in terms of performance the hierarchical model26performs better than PBSMT and syntax (18.31,18.09, 17.62 Bleu points), but in terms of transla-tion speed PBSMT is better than hierarchical andsyntax (1.02, 4.5, 49 second per sentence).
Al-though, the hierarchical model has the best Bleuscore, we prefer to use the PBSMT system in ourtranslation service, because it is four times faster.Which training data can we use?
It is knownin statistical machine translation that more train-ing data implies better translation.
Although, thenumber of parallel corpora has been is growingin the last years, the amounts of training datavary from language pair to language pair.
Totrain our models we use the freely available cor-pora (when possible): Europarl (Koehn, 2005),JRC-Acquis (Steinberger et al 2006), DGT-TM3, Opus (Tiedemann, 2009), SE-Times (Ty-ers and Alperen, 2010), Tehran English-PersianParallel Corpus (Pilevar et al 2011), NewsCorpus (Callison-Burch et al 2009), UN Cor-pus (Rafalovitch and Dale, 2009), CzEng0.9 (Bo-jar and Z?abokrtsky?, 2009), English-Persian paral-lel corpus distributed by ELRA4 and two Arabic-English datasets distributed by LDC5.
This re-sults in some language pairs with a large cover-age, (more than 4 million sentences), and otherwith a very small coverage, (less than 1 million).The language models are trained using 12 modelsentences for the content model and 4.7 millionfor the title model.
Both sets are extracted fromEnglish news.For less resourced languages such as Farsi andTurkish, we tried to extend the available corpora.For Farsi, we applied the methodology proposedby (Lambert et al 2011), where we used a largelanguage model and an English-Farsi SMT modelto produce new sentence pairs.
For Turkish weadded the Movie Subtitles corpus (Tiedemann,2009), which allowed the SMT system to in-crease its translation capability, but included sev-eral slang words and spoken phrases.How to deal with Named Entities in transla-tion?
News articles are related to the most impor-tant events.
These names need to be efficientlytranslated to correctly understand the content ofan article.
From an SMT point of view, two mainissues are related to Named Entity translation: (1)such a name is not in the training data or (2) part3http://langtech.jrc.it/DGT-TM.html4http://catalog.elra.info/5http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/of the name is a common word in the target lan-guage and it is wrongly translated, e.g.
the Frenchname ?Bruno Le Maire?
which risks to be trans-lated into English as ?Bruno Mayor?.
To mitigateboth the effects we use our multilingual namedentity database.
In the source language, each newsitem is analysed to identify possible entities; ifan entity is recognised, its correct translation intoEnglish is retrieved from the database, and sug-gested to the SMT system enriching the sourcesentence using the xml markup option 6 in Moses.This approach allows us to complement the train-ing data increasing the translation capability ofour system.How to deal with different language stylesin the news?
News title writing style containsmore gerund verbs, no or few linking verbs,prepositions and adverbs than normal sentences,while content sentences include more preposi-tion, adverbs and different verbal tenses.
Startingfrom this assumption, we investigated if this phe-nomenon can affect the translation performanceof our system.We trained two SMT systems, SMTcontentand SMTtitle, using the Europarl V4 German-English data as training corpus, and two dif-ferent development sets: one made of contentsentences, News Commentaries (Callison-Burchet al 2009), and the other made of news ti-tles in the source language which were trans-lated into English using a commercial transla-tion system.
With the same strategy we gener-ated also a Title test set.
The SMTtitle used alanguage model created using only English newstitles.
The News and Title test sets were trans-lated by both the systems.
Although the perfor-mance obtained translating the News and Titlecorpora are not comparable, we were interestedin analysing how the same test set is translatedby the two systems.
We noticed that translat-ing a test set with a system that was optimizedwith the same type of data resulted in almost 2Blue score improvements: Title-TestSet: 0.3706(SMTtitle), 0.3511 (SMTcontent); News-TestSet:0.1768 (SMTtitle), 0.1945 (SMTcontent).
Thisbehaviour was present also in different languagepairs.
According to these results we decidedto use two different translation systems for eachlanguage pair, one optimized using title data6http://www.statmt.org/moses/?n=Moses.AdvancedFeatures#ntoc427and the other using normal content sentences.Even though this implementation choice requiresmore computational power to run in memory twoMoses servers, it allows us to mitigate the work-load of each single instance reducing translationtime of each single article and to improve transla-tion quality.3.1 Translation QualityTo evaluate the translation performance of ONTS,we run a set of experiments where we translate atest set for each language pair using our systemand Google Translate.
Lack of human translatedparallel titles obliges us to test only the contentbased model.
For German, Spanish and Czech weuse the news test sets proposed in (Callison-Burchet al 2010), for French and Italian the news testsets presented in (Callison-Burch et al 2008),for Arabic, Farsi and Turkish, sets of 2,000 newssentences extracted from the Arabic-English andEnglish-Persian datasets and the SE-Times cor-pus.
For the other languages we use 2,000 sen-tences which are not news but a mixture of JRC-Acquis, Europarl and DGT-TM data.
It is notguarantee that our test sets are not part of the train-ing data of Google Translate.Each test set is translated by Google Translate- Translator Toolkit, and by our system.
Bleuscore is used to evaluate the performance of bothsystems.
Results, see Table 1, show that GoogleTranslate produces better translation for those lan-guages for which large amounts of data are avail-able such as French, German, Italian and Spanish.Surprisingly, for Danish, Portuguese and Polish,ONTS has better performance, this depends onthe choice of the test sets which are not made ofnews data but of data that is fairly homogeneousin terms of style and genre with the training sets.The impact of the named entity module is ev-ident for Arabic and Farsi, where each Englishsuggested entity results in a larger coverage ofthe source language and better translations.
Forhighly inflected and agglutinative languages suchas Turkish, the output proposed by ONTS is poor.We are working on gathering more training datacoming from the news domain and on the pos-sibility of applying a linguistic pre-processing ofthe documents.Source L. ONTS Google T.Arabic 0.318 0.255Czech 0.218 0.226Danish 0.324 0.296Farsi 0.245 0.197French 0.26 0.286German 0.205 0.25Italian 0.234 0.31Polish 0.568 0.511Portuguese 0.579 0.424Spanish 0.283 0.334Turkish 0.238 0.395Table 1: Automatic evaluation.4 Technical ImplementationThe translation service is made of two compo-nents: the connection module and the Mosesserver.
The connection module is a servlet im-plemented in Java.
It receives the RSS files,isolates each single news article, identifies eachsource language and pre-processes it.
Each newsitem is split into sentences, each sentence is to-kenized, lowercased, passed through a statisti-cal compound word splitter, (Koehn and Knight,2003), and the named entity annotator module.For language modelling we use the KenLM im-plementation, (Heafield, 2011).According to the language, the correct Mosesservers, title and content, are fed in a multi-thread manner.
We use the multi-thread versionof Moses (Haddow, 2010).
When all the sentencesof each article are translated, the inverse processis run: they are detokenized, recased, and untrans-lated/unknown words are listed.
The translated ti-tle and content of each article are uploaded intothe RSS file and it is passed to the next modules.The full system including the translation mod-ules is running in a 2xQuad-Core with In-tel Hyper-threading Technology processors with48GB of memory.
It is our intention to locatethe Moses servers on different machines.
This ispossible thanks to the high modularity and cus-tomization of the connection module.
At the mo-ment, the translation models are available for thefollowing source languages: Arabic, Czech, Dan-ish, Farsi, French, German, Italian, Polish, Por-tuguese, Spanish and Turkish.28Figure 1: Demo Web site.4.1 DemoOur translation service is currently presented ona demo web site, see Figure 1, which is availableat http://optima.jrc.it/Translate/.News articles can be retrieved selecting one of thetopics and the language.
All the topics are as-signed to each article using the methodology de-scribed in 2.2.
These articles are shown in the leftcolumn of the interface.
When the button ?Trans-late?
is pressed, the translation process starts andthe translated articles appear in the right columnof the page.The translation system can be customized fromthe interface enabling or disabling the namedentity, compound, recaser, detokenizer and un-known word modules.
Each translated article isenriched showing the translation time in millisec-onds per character and, if enabled, the list of un-known words.
The interface is linked to the con-nection module and data is transferred using RSSstructure.5 DiscussionIn this paper we present the Optima News Trans-lation System and how it is connected to Eu-rope Media Monitor application.
Different strate-gies are applied to increase the translation perfor-mance taking advantage of the document struc-ture and other resources available in our researchgroup.
We believe that the experiments describedin this work can result very useful for the develop-ment of other similar systems.
Translations pro-duced by our system will soon be available as partof the main EMM applications.The performance of our system is encouraging,but not as good as the performance of web ser-vices such as Google Translate, mostly becausewe use less training data and we have reducedcomputational power.
On the other hand, our in-house system can be fed with a large number ofarticles per day and sensitive data without includ-ing third parties in the translation process.
Per-formance and translation time vary according tothe number and complexity of sentences and lan-guage pairs.The domain of news articles dynamicallychanges according to the main events in the world,while existing parallel data is static and usuallyassociated to governmental domains.
It is our in-tention to investigate how to adapt our translationsystem updating the language model with the En-glish articles of the day.AcknowledgmentsThe authors thank the JRC?s OPTIMA team forits support during the development of ONTS.ReferencesO.
Bojar and Z.
Z?abokrtsky?.
2009.
CzEng0.9: LargeParallel Treebank with Rich Annotation.
PragueBulletin of Mathematical Linguistics, 92.C.
Callison-Burch and C. Fordyce and P. Koehn andC.
Monz and J. Schroeder.
2008.
Further Meta-Evaluation of Machine Translation.
Proceedings ofthe Third Workshop on Statistical Machine Transla-tion, pages 70?106.
Columbus, US.C.
Callison-Burch, and P. Koehn and C. Monz and J.Schroeder.
2009.
Findings of the 2009 Workshopon Statistical Machine Translation.
Proceedings ofthe Fourth Workshop on Statistical Machine Trans-lation, pages 1?28.
Athens, Greece.C.
Callison-Burch, and P. Koehn and C. Monz and K.Peterson and M. Przybocki and O. Zaidan.
2009.Findings of the 2010 Joint Workshop on Statisti-cal Machine Translation and Metrics for MachineTranslation.
Proceedings of the Joint Fifth Work-shop on Statistical Machine Translation and Met-ricsMATR, pages 17?53.
Uppsala, Sweden.D.
Chiang.
2005.
Hierarchical phrase-based transla-tion.
Computational Linguistics, 33(2): pages 201?228.
MIT Press.B.
Haddow.
2010.
Adding multi-threaded decoding tomoses.
The Prague Bulletin of Mathematical Lin-guistics, 93(1): pages 57?66.
Versita.K.
Heafield.
2011.
KenLM: Faster and smaller lan-guage model queries.
Proceedings of the SixthWorkshop on Statistical Machine Translation, Ed-inburgh, UK.29P.
Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A Parallel Corpus forStatistical Machine Translation.
Proceedings ofthe Machine Translation Summit X, pages 79-86.Phuket, Thailand.P.
Koehn and F. J. Och and D. Marcu.
2003.
Statisticalphrase-based translation.
Proceedings of the 2003Conference of the North American Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics on Hu-man Language Technology, pages 48?54.
Edmon-ton, Canada.P.
Koehn and K. Knight.
2003.
Empirical methodsfor compound splitting.
Proceedings of the tenthconference on European chapter of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 187?193.
Bu-dapest, Hungary.P.
Koehn and H. Hoang and A. Birch and C. Callison-Burch and M. Federico and N. Bertoldi and B.Cowan and W. Shen and C. Moran and R. Zensand C. Dyer and O. Bojar and A. Constantin and E.Herbst 2007.
Moses: Open source toolkit for sta-tistical machine translation.
Proceedings of the An-nual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, demonstration session, pages 177?180.Columbus, Oh, USA.P.
Lambert and H. Schwenk and C. Servan and S.Abdul-Rauf.
2011.
SPMT: Investigations on Trans-lation Model Adaptation Using Monolingual Data.Proceedings of the Sixth Workshop on StatisticalMachine Translation, pages 284?293.
Edinburgh,Scotland.D.
Marcu and W. Wang and A. Echihabi and K.Knight.
2006.
SPMT: Statistical machine trans-lation with syntactified target language phrases.Proceedings of the 2006 Conference on Empiri-cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages48?54.
Edmonton, Canada.M.
Pilevar and H. Faili and A. Pilevar.
2011.
TEP:Tehran English-Persian Parallel Corpus.
Compu-tational Linguistics and Intelligent Text Processing,pages 68?79.
Springer.B.
Pouliquen and R. Steinberger.
2009.
Auto-matic construction of multilingual name dictionar-ies.
Learning Machine Translation, pages 59?78.MIT Press - Advances in Neural Information Pro-cessing Systems Series (NIPS).A.
Rafalovitch and R. Dale.
2009.
United nationsgeneral assembly resolutions: A six-language par-allel corpus.
Proceedings of the MT Summit XIII,pages 292?299.
Ottawa, Canada.R.
Steinberger and B. Pouliquen.
2007.
Cross-lingualnamed entity recognition.
Lingvistic?
Investiga-tiones, 30(1) pages 135?162.
John Benjamins Pub-lishing Company.R.
Steinberger and B. Pouliquen and A. Widiger andC.
Ignat and T. Erjavec and D. Tufis?
and D. Varga.2006.
The JRC-Acquis: A multilingual aligned par-allel corpus with 20+ languages.
Proceedings ofthe 5th International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation, pages 2142?2147.
Genova,Italy.R.
Steinberger and B. Pouliquen and E. van der Goot.2009.
An Introduction to the Europe Media MonitorFamily of Applications.
Proceedings of the Infor-mation Access in a Multilingual World-Proceedingsof the SIGIR 2009 Workshop, pages 1?8.
Boston,USA.J.
Tiedemann.
2009.
News from OPUS-A Collectionof Multilingual Parallel Corpora with Tools andInterfaces.
Recent advances in natural languageprocessing V: selected papers from RANLP 2007,pages 309:237.M.
Turchi and I. Flaounas and O. Ali and T. DeBieand T. Snowsill and N. Cristianini.
2009.
Found intranslation.
Proceedings of the European Confer-ence on Machine Learning and Knowledge Discov-ery in Databases, pages 746?749.
Bled, Slovenia.F.
Tyers and M.S.
Alperen.
2010.
South-East Euro-pean Times: A parallel corpus of Balkan languages.Proceedings of the LREC workshop on Exploita-tion of multilingual resources and tools for Centraland (South) Eastern European Languages, Valletta,Malta.30
