Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 46?50,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Statistical Spoken Dialogue System using Complex User Goals andValue Directed CompressionPaul A. Crook, Zhuoran Wang, Xingkun Liu and Oliver LemonInteraction LabSchool of Mathematical and Computer Sciences (MACS)Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, UK{p.a.crook, zhuoran.wang, x.liu, o.lemon}@hw.ac.ukAbstractThis paper presents the first demonstrationof a statistical spoken dialogue system thatuses automatic belief compression to rea-son over complex user goal sets.
Reasoningover the power set of possible user goals al-lows complex sets of user goals to be rep-resented, which leads to more natural dia-logues.
The use of the power set results in amassive expansion in the number of beliefstates maintained by the Partially Observ-able Markov Decision Process (POMDP)spoken dialogue manager.
A modified formof Value Directed Compression (VDC) isapplied to the POMDP belief states produc-ing a near-lossless compression which re-duces the number of bases required to rep-resent the belief distribution.1 IntroductionOne of the main problems for a spoken dialoguesystem (SDS) is to determine the user?s goal (e.g.plan suitable meeting times or find a good Indianrestaurant nearby) under uncertainty, and therebyto compute the optimal next system dialogue ac-tion (e.g.
offer a restaurant, ask for clarification).Recent research in statistical SDSs has success-fully addressed aspects of these problems throughthe application of Partially Observable MarkovDecision Process (POMDP) approaches (Thom-son and Young, 2010; Young et al 2010).
How-ever POMDP SDSs are currently limited by therepresentation of user goals adopted to make sys-tems computationally tractable.Work in dialogue system evaluation, e.g.Walker et al(2004) and Lemon et al(2006),shows that real user goals are generally sets ofitems, rather than a single item.
People like toexplore possible trade offs between the attributesof items.Crook and Lemon (2010) identified this as acentral challenge for the field of spoken dialoguesystems, proposing the use of automatic compres-sion techniques to allow for extended accuraterepresentations of user goals.
This paper presentsa proof of concept of these ideas in the form of acomplete, working spoken dialogue system.
ThePOMDP dialogue manager (DM) of this demon-stration system uses a compressed belief spacethat was generated using a modified version of theValue Directed Compression (VDC) algorithmas originally proposed by Poupart (2005).
Thisdemonstration system extends work presented byCrook and Lemon (2011) in that it embeds thecompressed complex user goal belief space into aworking system and demonstrates planning (andacting) in the compressed space.2 Complex User GoalsThe type of SDS task that we focus on is a limited-domain query-dialogue, also known as a ?slot fill-ing?
task.
The spoken dialogue system has knowl-edge about some set of objects where these ob-jects have attributes and these attributes can takeseveral values.
An object can thus be describedby a conjunction of attribute-value pairs.
A di-alogue progresses with the system obtaining re-quirements from the user which are specified interms of attribute values.
The system should even-tually present objects (search results) based uponits understanding of the user?s requirement.
Thedialogue ends when the user accepts one of thedomain objects.Prior work on POMDP SDSs has assumed thata user has a narrowly constrained goal (as speci-46User goal: cheap central Thai or expensive FrenchS: Hello, how can I help you?U: I?m looking for a cheap central Thai restaurant.S: You?re looking for budget, city centre, Thairestaurants.
?U: Or an expensive French restaurant anywhere.S: You?re looking for non-budget French restaurants.What ?U: And cheap, city centre, Thai.S: You?re looking for budget, city centre, Thairestaurants.
What about ?U: (SIGH) And French.S: You?re looking for budget, city centre, Frenchrestaurants.
What about ?U: (HANG UP)Table 1: Example dialogue using simple user goals.S=System, U=User.
???
indicates the user barged in.fied in terms of the domain objects) and thus therole of the DM is one of reducing uncertainty un-til its belief is strongly focused on a particular do-main object.
This has the unfortunate effect offorcing users to select one domain object in orderto progress the dialogue, see Table 1.
Note that theexample given is problematic not only because theuser wants two different food types but becausethey have different requirements associated witheach, i.e.
Thai restaurants should be in the centreand cheap, while any French restaurants should beexpensive1 and can be located anywhere.
To ourknowledge such a combination of goals with dif-ferent attribute values cannot be straightforwardlyhandled by comparable state-of-the-art statisticalSDSs which appear in the literature.Crook and Lemon (2011) suggest that ratherthan the DM assuming that the user has a singlenarrowly constrained goal in mind, it should as-sume that they want any possible sub-set of thecomplete set of domain objects.
Thus, insteadof maintaining the POMDP belief over individualdomain objects, it should be maintained over thepower set of domain objects.
As an example seeTable 3 which is the power set for a domain withthree objects that can take two attributes u, v withassociated values u1, u2, u3 and v1 respectively.The power set representation allows thedemonstration system to straightforwardly handlepreviously problematic dialogues.
See Table 2.Of course this approach significantly expands the1Interpreted as non-budget by the system since itsdatabase only classifies restaurants as budget or non-budget.User goal: cheap central Thai or expensive FrenchS: Hello, how can I help you?U: I?m looking for a cheap central Thai restaurant.S: You?re looking for budget, city centre, Thairestaurants.
?U: Or an expensive French restaurant anywhere.S: You?re looking for budget, city centre, Thairestaurants or non-budget French.
What aboutChang Thai in Old Town??
Chang Thai?s set lunchprice is ?
7.95 ?U: What alternatives do you have?S: What about the Plumed Horse in Leith??
ThePlumed Horse is a Michelin starred French ...Table 2: Example dialogue using complex user goals.S=System, U=User.
?Old Town is part of the city cen-tre.
?Leith is outside the centre.state space of possible user goals, with the num-ber of goal sets being equal to 2|domain objects| .2.1 Automatic CompressionEven considering limited domains, POMDP statespaces for SDSs grow very quickly.
Thus the cur-rent state-of-the-art in POMDP SDSs uses a vari-ety of handcrafted compression techniques, suchas making several types of independence assump-tion as discussed above.Crook and Lemon (2010) propose replacinghandcrafted compressions with automatic com-pression techniques.
The idea is to use princi-pled statistical methods for automatically reduc-ing the dimensionality of belief spaces, but whichpreserve useful distributions from the full space,and thus can more accurately represent real user?sgoals.2.2 VDC AlgorithmThe VDC algorithm (Poupart, 2005) uses Kryloviteration to compute a reduced state space.
It findsa set of linear basis vectors that can reproduce thevalue2 of being in any of the original POMDPstates.
Where, if a lossless VDC compression ispossible, the number of basis vectors is less thanthe original number of POMDP states.The intuition here is that if the value of takingan action in a given state has been preserved thenplanning is equally as reliable in the compressedspace as the in full space.The VDC algorithm requires a fully specifiedPOMDP, i.e.
?S,A,O, T,?,R?
where S is the set2The sum of discounted future rewards obtained throughfollowing some series of actions.47state goal set meaning: user?s goal iss1 ?
(empty set) none of the domain objectss2 u=u1?v=v1 domain object 1s3 u=u2?v=v1 domain object 2s4 u=u3?v=v1 domain object 3s5 (u=u1?v=v1) ?
(u=u2?v=v1) domain objects 1 or 2s6 (u=u1?v=v1) ?
(u=u3?v=v1) domain objects 1 or 3s7 (u=u2?v=v1) ?
(u=u3?v=v1) domain objects 2 or 3s8 (u=u1?v=v1) ?
(u=u2?v=v1) ?
(u=u3?v=v1) any of the domain objectsTable 3: Example of complex user goal sets.of states, A is the set of actions, O is the set of ob-servations, T conditional transition probabilities,?
conditional observation probabilities, and R isthe reward function.
Since it iteratively projectsthe rewards associated with each state and actionusing the state transition and observation proba-bilities, the compression found is dependent onstructures and regularities in the POMDP model.The set of basis vectors found can be used toproject the POMDP reward, transition, and obser-vation probabilities into the reduced state spaceallowing the policy to be learnt and executed inthis state space.Although the VDC algorithm (Poupart, 2005)produces compressions that are lossless in termsof the states?
values, the set of basis vectors found(when viewed as a transformation matrix) can beill-conditioned.
This results in numerical instabil-ity and errors in the belief estimation.
The com-pression used in this demonstration was producedusing a modified VDC algorithm that improvesthe matrix condition by approximately selectingthe most independent basis vectors, thus improv-ing numerical stability.
It achieves near-losslessstate value compression while allowing belief es-timation errors to be minimised and traded-offagainst the amount of compression.
Details of thisalgorithm are to appear in a forthcoming publica-tion.3 System Description3.1 ComponentsInput and output to the demonstration system isusing standard open source and commercial com-ponents.
FreeSWITCH (Minessale II, 2012) pro-vides a platform for accepting incoming Voiceover IP calls, routing them (using the Media Re-source Control Protocol (MRCP)) to a Nuance 9.0Automatic Speech Recogniser (Nuance, 2012).Output is similarly handled by FreeSWITCHrouting system responses via a CereProc Text-to-Speech MRCP server (CereProc, 2012) in orderto respond to the user.The heart of the demonstration system consistsof a State-Estimator server which estimates thecurrent dialogue state using the compressed statespace previously produced by VDC, a Policy-Executor server that selects actions based onthe compressed estimated state, and a templatebased Natural Language Generator server.
Theseservers, along with FreeSWITCH, use ZeroC?sInternet Communications Engine (Ice) middle-ware (ZeroC, 2012) as a common communica-tions platform.3.2 SDS DomainThe demonstration system provides a restaurantfinder system for the city of Edinburgh (Scot-land, UK).
It presents search results from a realdatabase of over 600 restaurants.
The searchresults are based on the attributes specified bythe user, currently; location, food type andbudget/non-budget.3.3 InterfaceThe demonstration SDS is typically accessed overthe phone network.
For debugging and demon-stration purposes it is possible to visualise thebelief distribution maintained by the DM as dia-logues progress.
The compressed version of thebelief distribution is not a conventional proba-bility distribution3 and its visualisation is unin-formative.
Instead we take advantage of the re-versibility of the VDC compression and projectthe distribution back onto the full state space.
Foran example of the evolution of the belief distribu-tion during a dialogue see Figure 1.3The values associated with the basis vectors are not con-fined to the range [0?
1].48#409610?7 10?6 10?5 0.0001 0.001(a) Initial uniform distribution over the power set.#2048#204810?7 10?6 10?5 0.0001 0.001(b) Distribution after user responds to greet.#512#358410?11 10?9 10?7 10?5 0.001(c) Distribution after second user utterance.Figure 1: Evolution of the belief distribution for theexample dialogue in Table 2.
The horizontal length ofeach bar corresponds to the probability of that com-plex user goal state.
Note that the x-axis uses a log-arithmic scale to allow low probability values to beseen.
The y-axis is the set of complex user goals or-dered by probability.
Lighter shaded (green) bars indi-cate complex user goal states corresponding to ?cheap,central Thai?
and ?cheap, central Thai or expensiveFrench anywhere?
in figures (b) and (c) respectively.The count ?#?
indicates the number of states in thosegroups.4 ConclusionsWe present a demonstration of a statistical SDSthat uses automatic belief compression to reasonover complex user goal sets.
Using the power setof domain objects as the states of the POMDPDM allows complex sets of user goals to be rep-resented, which leads to more natural dialogues.To address the massive expansion in the numberof belief states, a modified form of VDC is usedto generate a compression.
It is this compressedspace which is used by the DM for planning andacting in response to user utterances.
This is thefirst demonstration of a statistical SDS that usesautomatic belief compression to reason over com-plex user goal sets.VDC and other automated compression tech-niques reduce the human design load by automat-ing part of the current POMDP SDS design pro-cess.
This reduces the knowledge required whenbuilding such statistical systems and should makethem easier for industry to deploy.Such compression approaches are not only ap-plicable to SDSs but should be equally relevantfor multi-modal interaction systems where sev-eral modalities are being combined in user-goalor state estimation.5 Future WorkThe current demonstration system is a proofof concept and is limited to a small numberof attributes and attribute-values.
Part of ourongoing work involves investigation of scaling.For example, increasing the number of attribute-values should produce more regularities acrossthe POMDP space.
Does VDC successfully ex-ploit these?We are in the process of collecting corporafor the Edinburgh restaurant domain mentionedabove with the aim that the POMDP observationand transition statistics can be derived from data.As part of this work we have launched a longterm, public facing outlet for testing and data col-lection, see http:\\www.edinburghinfo.co.uk.
It is planned to make future versions ofthe demonstration system discussed in this paperavailable via this public outlet.Finally we are investigating the applicabilityof other automatic belief (and state) compressiontechniques for SDSs, e.g.
E-PCA (Roy and Gor-don, 2002).49AcknowledgmentsThe research leading to these results was fundedby the Engineering and Physical Sciences Re-search Council, UK (EPSRC) under project no.EP/G069840/1 and was partially supported by theEC FP7 projects Spacebook (ref.
270019) andJAMES (ref.
270435).ReferencesCereProc.
2012. http://www.cereproc.com/.Paul A. Crook and Oliver Lemon.
2010.
Representinguncertainty about complex user goals in statisticaldialogue systems.
In proceedings of SIGdial.Paul A. Crook and Oliver Lemon.
2011.
LosslessValue Directed Compression of Complex User GoalStates for Statistical Spoken Dialogue Systems.
InProceedings of the Twelfth Annual Conference ofthe International Speech Communication Associa-tion (Interspeech).Oliver Lemon, Kallirroi Georgila, and James Hender-son.
2006.
Evaluating Effectiveness and Portabil-ity of Reinforcement Learned Dialogue Strategieswith real users: the TALK TownInfo Evaluation.
InIEEE/ACL Spoken Language Technology.Anthony Minessale II.
2012.
FreeSWITCH.
http://www.freeswitch.org/.Nuance.
2012.
Nuance Recognizer.
http://www.nuance.com.P.
Poupart.
2005.
Exploiting Structure to EfficientlySolve Large Scale Partially Observable Markov De-cision Processes.
Ph.D. thesis, Dept.
Computer Sci-ence, University of Toronto.N.
Roy and G. Gordon.
2002.
Exponential FamilyPCA for Belief Compression in POMDPs.
In NIPS.B.
Thomson and S. Young.
2010.
Bayesian updateof dialogue state: A POMDP framework for spokendialogue systems.
Computer Speech and Language,24(4):562?588.Marilyn Walker, S. Whittaker, A. Stent, P. Maloor,J.
Moore, M. Johnston, and G. Vasireddy.
2004.User tailored generation in the match multimodaldialogue system.
Cognitive Science, 28:811?840.S.
Young, M.
Gas?ic?, S. Keizer, F. Mairesse, B. Thom-son, and K. Yu.
2010.
The Hidden InformationState model: a practical framework for POMDPbased spoken dialogue management.
ComputerSpeech and Language, 24(2):150?174.ZeroC.
2012.
The Internet Communications Engine(Ice).
http://www.zeroc.com/ice.html.50
