Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 1?5,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsLanguage Resources Factory: case study on the acquisition ofTranslation Memories?Marc PochUPF Barcelona, Spainmarc.pochriera@upf.eduAntonio ToralDCU Dublin, Irelandatoral@computing.dcu.ieNu?ria BelUPF Barcelona, Spainnuria.bel@upf.eduAbstractThis paper demonstrates a novel distributedarchitecture to facilitate the acquisition ofLanguage Resources.
We build a factorythat automates the stages involved in the ac-quisition, production, updating and mainte-nance of these resources.
The factory is de-signed as a platform where functionalitiesare deployed as web services, which canbe combined in complex acquisition chainsusing workflows.
We show a case study,which acquires a Translation Memory for agiven pair of languages and a domain usingweb services for crawling, sentence align-ment and conversion to TMX.1 IntroductionA fundamental issue for many tasks in the field ofComputational Linguistics and Language Tech-nologies in general is the lack of Language Re-sources (LRs) to tackle them successfully, espe-cially for some languages and domains.
It is theso-called LRs bottleneck.Our objective is to build a factory of LRs thatautomates the stages involved in the acquisition,production, updating and maintenance of LRsrequired by Machine Translation (MT), and byother applications based on Language Technolo-gies.
This automation will significantly cut downthe required cost, time and human effort.
Thesereductions are the only way to guarantee the con-tinuous supply of LRs that Language Technolo-gies demand in a multilingual world.?
We would like to thank the developers of Soaplab, Tav-erna, myExperiment and Biocatalogue for solving our ques-tions and attending our requests.
This research has beenpartially funded by the EU project PANACEA (7FP-ICT-248064).2 Web Services and WorkflowsThe factory is designed as a platform of web ser-vices (WSs) where the users can create and usethese services directly or combine them in morecomplex chains.
These chains are called work-flows and can represent different combinations oftasks, e.g.
?extract the text from a PDF docu-ment and obtain the Part of Speech (PoS) tagging?or ?crawl this bilingual website and align its sen-tence pairs?.
Each task is carried out using NLPtools deployed as WSs in the factory.Web Service Providers (WSPs) are institutions(universities, companies, etc.)
who are willingto offer services for some tasks.
WSs are ser-vices made available from a web server to re-mote users or to other connected programs.
WSsare built upon protocols, server and program-ming languages.
Their massive adoption has con-tributed to make this technology rather interoper-able and open.
In fact, WSs allow computer pro-grams distributed in different locations to interactwith each other.WSs introduce a completely new paradigm inthe way we use software tools.
Before, everyresearcher or laboratory had to install and main-tain all the different tools that they needed fortheir work, which has a considerable cost in bothhuman and computing resources.
In addition, itmakes it more difficult to carry out experimentsthat involve other tools because the researchermight hesitate to spend time resources on in-stalling new tools when there are other alterna-tives already installed.The paradigm changes considerably with WSs,as in this case only the WSP needs to have a deepknowledge of the installation and maintenance ofthe tool, thus allowing all the other users to benefit1from this work.
Consequently, researchers thinkabout tools from a high level and solely regard-ing their functionalities, thus they can focus ontheir work and be more productive as the time re-sources that would have been spent to install soft-ware are freed.
The only tool that the users needto install in order to design and run experiments isa WS client or a Workflow editor.3 Choosing the tools for the platformDuring the design phase several technologieswere analyzed to study their features, ease of use,installation, maintenance needs as well as the es-timated learning curve required to use them.
In-teroperability between components and with othertechnologies was also taken into account sinceone of our goals is to reach as many providers andusers as possible.
After some deliberation, a set oftechnologies that have proved to be successful inthe Bioinformatics field were adopted to build theplatform.
These tools are developed by the my-Grid1 team.
This group aims to develop a suiteof tools for researchers that work with e-Science.These tools have been used in numerous projectsas well as in different research fields as diverse asastronomy, biology and social science.3.1 Web Services: SoaplabSoaplab (Senger et al 2003)2 allows a WSP todeploy a command line tool as a WS just by writ-ing a metadata file that describes the parametersof the tool.
Soaplab takes care of the typical is-sues regarding WSs automatically, including tem-porary files, protocols, the WSDL file and its pa-rameters, etc.
Moreover, it creates a Web interface(called Spinet) where WSs can be tested and usedwith input forms.
All these features make Soaplaba suitable tool for our project.
Moreover, its nu-merous successful stories make it a safe choise;e.g., it has been used by the European Bioinfor-matics Institute3 to deploy their tools as WSs.3.2 Registry: BiocatalogueOnce the WSs are deployed by WSPs, somemeans to find them becomes necessary.
Biocat-alogue (Belhajjame et al 2008)4 is a registry1http://www.mygrid.org.uk2http://soaplab.sourceforge.net/soaplab2/3http://www.ebi.ac.uk4http://www.biocatalogue.org/where WSs can be shared, searched for, annotatedwith tags, etc.
It is used as the main registrationpoint for WSPs to share and annotate their WSsand for users to find the tools they need.
Bio-catalogue is a user-friendly portal that monitorsthe status of the WSs deployed and offers multi-ple metadata fields to annotate WSs.3.3 Workflows: TavernaNow that users can find WSs and use them, thenext step is to combine them to create complexchains.
Taverna (Missier et al 2010)5 is an opensource application that allows the user to createhigh-level workflows that integrate different re-sources (mainly WSs in our case) into a singleexperiment.
Such experiments can be seen assimulations which can be reproduced, tuned andshared with other researchers.An advantage of using workflows is that theresearcher does not need to have backgroundknowledge of the technical aspects involved inthe experiment.
The researcher creates the work-flow based on functionalities (each WS provides afunction) instead of dealing with technical aspectsof the software that provides the functionality.3.4 Sharing workflows: myExperimentMyExperiment (De Roure et al 2008)6 is a so-cial network used by workflow designers to shareworkflows.
Users can create groups and sharetheir workflows within the group or make thempublically available.
Workflows can be annotatedwith several types of information such as descrip-tion, attribution, license, etc.
Users can easily findexamples that will help them during the designphase, being able to reuse workflows (or parts ofthem) and thus avoiding reinveinting the wheel.4 Using the tools to work with NLPAll the aforementioned tools were installed, usedand adapted to work with NLP.
In addition, sev-eral tutorials and videos have been prepared7 tohelp partners and other users to deploy and useWSs and to create workflows.Soaplab has been modified (a patch has beendeveloped and distributed)8 to limit the amount ofdata being transfered inside the SOAP message in5http://www.taverna.org.uk/6http://www.myexperiment.org/7http://panacea-lr.eu/en/tutorials/8http://myexperiment.elda.org/files/52order to optimize the network usage.
Guidelinesthat describe how to limit the amount of concur-rent users of WSs as well as to limit the maximumsize of the input data have been prepared.9Regarding Taverna, guidelines and workflowexamples have been shared among partners show-ing the best way to create workflows for theproject.
The examples show how to benefit fromuseful features provided by this tool, such as?retries?
(to execute up to a certain number oftimes a WS when it fails) and ?parallelisation?
(torun WSs in parallel, thus increasing trhoughput).Users can view intermediate results and parame-ters using the provenance capture option, a usefulfeature while designing a workflow.
In case of anyWS error in one of the inputs, Taverna will reportthe error message produced by the WS or proces-sor component that causes it.
However, Tavernawill be able to continue processing the rest of theinput data if the workflow is robust (i.e.
makesuse of retry and parallelisation) and the error isconfined to a WS (i.e.
it does not affect the rest ofthe workflow).An instance of Biocatalogue and one of my-Experiment have been deployed to be the Reg-istry and the portal to share workflows and otherexperiment-related data.
Both have been adaptedby modifying relevant aspects of the interface(layout, colours, names, logos, etc.).
The cate-gories that make up the classification system usedin the Registry have been adapted to the NLPfield.
At the time of writing there are more than100 WSs and 30 workflows registered.5 InteroperabilityInteroperability plays a crucial role in a platformof distributed WSs.
Soaplab deploys SOAP10WSs and handles automatically most of the issuesinvolved in this process, while Taverna can com-bine SOAP and REST11 WSs.
Hence, we can saythat communication protocols are being handledby the tools.
However, parameters and data inter-operability need to be addressed.5.1 Common InterfaceTo facilitate interoperability between WSs and toeasily exchange WSs, a Common Interface (CI)9http://myexperiment.elda.org/files/410http://www.w3.org/TR/soap/11http://www.ics.uci.edu/?fielding/pubs/dissertation/rest_arch_style.htmhas been designed for each type of tool (e.g.
PoS-taggers, aligners, etc.).
The CI establishes that allWSs that perform a given task must have the samemandatory parameters.
That said, each tool canhave different optional parameters.
This systemeases the design of workflows as well as the ex-change of tools that perform the same task insidea workflow.
The CI has been developed using anXML schema.125.2 Travelling ObjectA goal of the project is to facilitate the deploy-ment of as many tools as possible in the form ofWSs.
In many cases, tools performing the sametask use in-house formats.
We have designed acontainer, called ?Travelling Object?
(TO), as thedata object that is being transfered between WSs.Any tool that is deployed needs to be adapted tothe TO, this way we can interconnect the differenttools in the platform regardless of their originalinput/output formats.We have adopted for TO the XML Corpus En-coding Standard (XCES) format (Ide et al 2000)because it was the already existing format that re-quired the minimum transduction effort from thein-house formats.
The XCES format has beenused successfully to build workflows for PoS tag-ging and alignment.Some WSs, e.g.
dependency parsers, require amore complex representation that cannot be han-dled by the TO.
Therefore, a more expressive for-mat has been adopted for these.
The Graph Anno-tation Format (GrAF) (Ide and Suderman, 2007)is a XML representation of a graph that allowsdifferent levels of annotation using a ?feature?value?
paradigm.
This system allows differentin-house formats to be easily encapsulated in thiscontainer-based format.
On the other hand, GrAFcan be used as a pivot format between other for-mats (Ide and Bunt, 2010), e.g.
there is softwareto convert GrAF to UIMA and GATE formats (Ideand Suderman, 2009) and it can be used to mergedata represented in a graph.Both TO and GrAF address syntactic interop-erability while semantic interoperability is still anopen topic.12http://panacea-lr.eu/en/info-for-professionals/documents/36 EvaluationThe evaluation of the factory is based on itsfeatures and usability requirements.
A binaryscheme (yes/no) is used to check whether each re-quirement is fulfilled or not.
The quality of thetools is not altered as they are deployed as WSswithout any modification.
According to the eval-uation of the current version of the platform, mostrequirements are fulfilled (Aleksic?
et al 2012).Another aspect of the factory that is being eval-uated is its performance and scalabilty.
They donot depend on the factory itself but on the designof the workflows and WSs.
WSPs with robustWSs and powerful servers will provide a betterand faster service to users (considering that theservice is based on the same tool).
This is analo-gous to the user installing tools on a computer; ifthe user develops a fragile script to chain the toolsthe execution may fail, while if the computer doesnot provide the required computational resourcesthe performance will be poor.Following the example of the Bioinformaticsfield where users can benefit of powerful WSPs,the factory is used as a proof of concept that thesetechnologies can grow and scale to benefit manyusers.7 Case studyWe introduce a case study in order to demonstratethe capabilities of the platform.
It regards the ac-quisition of a Translation Memory (TM) for a lan-guage pair and a specific domain.
This is deemedto be very useful for translators when they starttranslating documents for a new domain.
As atthat early stage they still do not have any contentin their TM, having the automatically acquiredTM can be helpful in order to get familiar withthe characteristic bilingual terminology and otheraspects of the domain.
Another obvious potentialuse of this data would be to use it to train a Statis-tical MT system.Three functionalities are needed to carry outthis process: acquisition of the data, its alignmentand its conversion into the desired format.
Theseare provided by WSs available in the registry.First, we use a domain-focused bilingualcrawler13 in order to acquire the data.
Given a pairof languages, a set of web domains and a set ofseed terms that define the target domain for these13http://registry.elda.org/services/127languages, this tool will crawl the webpages inthe domains and gather pairs of web documentsin the target languages that belong to the targetdomain.
Second, we apply a sentence aligner.14It takes as input the pairs of documents obtainedby the crawler and outputs pairs of equivalent sen-tences.Finally, convert the aligned data into a TMformat.
We have picked TMX15 as it is the mostcommon format for TMs.
The export is done bya service that receives as input sentence-alignedtext and converts it to TMX.16The ?Bilingual Process, Sentence Alignment ofbilingual crawled data with Hunalign and exportinto TMX?17 is a workflow built using Tavernathat combines the three WSs in order to providethe functionality needed.
The crawling part isommitted because data only needs to be crawledonce; crawled data can be processed with differ-ent workflows but it would be very inefficient tocrawl the same data each time.
A set of screen-shots showing the WSs and the workflow, togetherwith sample input and output data is available.188 Demo and RequirementsThe demo aims to show the web portals and toolsused during the development of the case study.First, the Registry19 to find WSs, the Spinet Webclient to easily test them and Taverna to finallybuild a workflow combining the different WSs.For the live demo, the workflows will be alreadydesigned because of the time constraints.
How-ever, there are videos on the web that illustratethe whole process.
It will be also interesting toshow the myExperiment portal,20 where all pub-lic workflows can be found.
Videos of workflowexecutions will also be available.Regarding the requirements, a decent internetconnection is critical for an acceptable perfor-mance of the whole platform, specially for remoteWSs and workflows.
We will use a laptop withTaverna installed to run the workflow presentedin Section 7.14http://registry.elda.org/services/9215http://www.gala-global.org/oscarStandards/tmx/tmx14b.html16http://registry.elda.org/services/21917http://myexperiment.elda.org/workflows/3718http://www.computing.dcu.ie/?atoral/panacea/eacl12_demo/19http://registry.elda.org20http://myexperiment.elda.org4ReferencesVera Aleksic?, Olivier Hamon, Vassilis Papavassiliou,Pavel Pecina, Marc Poch, Prokopis Prokopidis, Va-leria Quochi, Christoph Schwarz, and Gregor Thur-mair.
2012.
Second evaluation report.
Evalu-ation of PANACEA v2 and produced resources(PANACEA project Deliverable 7.3).
Technical re-port.Khalid Belhajjame, Carole Goble, Franck Tanoh, JitenBhagat, Katherine Wolstencroft, Robert Stevens,Eric Nzuobontane, Hamish McWilliam, ThomasLaurent, and Rodrigo Lopez.
2008.
Biocatalogue:A curated web service registry for the life sciencecommunity.
In Microsoft eScience conference.David De Roure, Carole Goble, and Robert Stevens.2008.
The design and realisation of the myexperi-ment virtual research environment for social sharingof workflows.
Future Generation Computer Sys-tems, 25:561?567, May.Nancy Ide and Harry Bunt.
2010.
Anatomy of anno-tation schemes: mapping to graf.
In Proceedings ofthe Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop, LAWIV ?10, pages 247?255, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.Nancy Ide and Keith Suderman.
2007.
GrAF: AGraph-based Format for Linguistic Annotations.
InProceedings of the Linguistic Annotation Workshop,pages 1?8, Prague, Czech Republic, June.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Nancy Ide and Keith Suderman.
2009.
Bridgingthe Gaps: Interoperability for GrAF, GATE, andUIMA.
In Proceedings of the Third Linguistic An-notation Workshop, pages 27?34, Suntec, Singa-pore, August.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Nancy Ide, Patrice Bonhomme, and Laurent Romary.2000.
XCES: An XML-based encoding standardfor linguistic corpora.
In Proceedings of the SecondInternational Language Resources and EvaluationConference.
Paris: European Language ResourcesAssociation.Paolo Missier, Stian Soiland-Reyes, Stuart Owen,Wei Tan, Aleksandra Nenadic, Ian Dunlop, AlanWilliams, Thomas Oinn, and Carole Goble.
2010.Taverna, reloaded.
In M. Gertz, T. Hey, and B. Lu-daescher, editors, SSDBM 2010, Heidelberg, Ger-many, June.Martin Senger, Peter Rice, and Thomas Oinn.
2003.Soaplab - a unified sesame door to analysis tools.In All Hands Meeting, September.5
