Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 77?81,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic Analysis of Patient History Episodes in Bulgarian HospitalDischarge LettersSvetla BoytchevaState University of Library Studiesand Information Technologiesand IICT-BASsvetla.boytcheva@gmail.comGalia Angelova, Ivelina NikolovaInstitute of Information andCommunication Technologies (IICT),Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (BAS){galia,iva}@lml.bas.bgAbstractThis demo presents Information Extractionfrom discharge letters in Bulgarian lan-guage.
The Patient history section is au-tomatically split into episodes (clauses be-tween two temporal markers); then drugs,diagnoses and conditions are recognisedwithin the episodes with accuracy higherthan 90%.
The temporal markers, which re-fer to absolute or relative moments of time,are identified with precision 87% and re-call 68%.
The direction of time for theepisode starting point: backwards or for-ward (with respect to certain moment ori-enting the episode) is recognised with pre-cision 74.4%.1 IntroductionTemporal information processing is a challenge inmedical informatics (Zhou and Hripcsak, 2007)and (Hripcsak et al 2005).
There is no agree-ment about the features of the temporal modelswhich might be extracted automatically from freetexts.
Some sophisticated approaches aim at theadaptation of TimeML-based tags to clinically-important entities (Savova et al 2009) whileothers identify dates and prepositional phrasescontaining temporal expressions (Angelova andBoytcheva, 2011).
Most NLP prototypes for auto-matic temporal analysis of clinical narratives dealwith discharge letters.This demo presents a prototype for automaticsplitting of the Patient history into episodes andextraction of important patient-related events thatoccur within these episodes.
We process Elec-tronic Health Records (EHRs) of diabetic pa-tients.
In Bulgaria, due to centralised regulationson medical documentation (which date back tothe 60?s of the last century), hospital dischargeletters have a predefined structure (Agreement,2005).
Using the section headers, our Informa-tion Extraction (IE) system automatically iden-tifies the Patient history (Anamnesis).
It con-tains a summary, written by the medical expertwho hospitalises the patient, and documents themain phases in diabetes development, the maininterventions and their effects.
The splitting al-gorithm is based on the assumption that the Pa-tient history texts can be represented as a struc-tured sequence of adjacent clauses which are po-sitioned between two temporal markers and re-port about some important events happening inthe designated period.
The temporal markers areusually accompanied by words signaling the di-rection of time (backward or forward).
Thus weassume that the episodes have the following struc-ture: (i) reference point, (ii) direction, (iii) tem-poral expression, (iv) diagnoses, (v) symptoms,syndromes, conditions, or complains; (vi) drugs;(vii) treatment outcome.
The demo will showhow our IE system automatically fills in the sevenslots enumerated above.
Among all symptomsand conditions, which are complex phrases andparaphrases, the extraction of features related topolyuria and polydipsia, weight change and bloodsugar value descriptions will be demonstrated.Our present corpus contains 1,375 EHRs.2 Recognition of Temporal MarkersTemporal information is very important in clini-cal narratives: there are 8,248 markers and 8,249words/phrases signaling the direction backwardsor forward in the corpus (while the drug name oc-currences are 7,108 and the diagnoses are 7,565).77In the hospital information system, there aretwo explicitly fixed dates: the patient birth dateand the hospitalisation date.
Both of them areused as antecedents of temporal anaphora:?
the hospitalisation date is a reference pointfor 37.2% of all temporal expressions (e.g.
?since 5 years?, ?
(since) last March?, ?3 yearsago?, ?two weeks ago?, ?diabetes duration 22years?, ?during the last 3 days?
etc.).
For8.46% of them, the expression allows for cal-culation of a particular date when the corre-sponding event has occurred;?
the age (calculated using the birth date) is areference point for 2.1% of all temporal ex-pressions (e.g.
?diabetes diagnosed in theage of 22 years?
).Some 28.96% of the temporal markers refer to anexplicitly specified year which we consider as anabsolute reference.
Another 15.1% of the markerscontain reference to day, month and year, and inthis way 44.06% of the temporal expressions ex-plicitly refer to dates.
Adding to these 44.06%the above-listed referential citations of the hos-pitalization date and the birth date, we see that83.36% of the temporal markers refer to explic-itly specified moments of time and can be seenas absolute references.
We note that diabetes is achronicle disease and references like ?diabetes di-agnosed 30 years ago?
are sufficiently precise tobe counted as explicit temporal pointers.The anaphoric expressions refer to events de-scribed in the Patient history section: these ex-pressions are 2.63% of the temporal markers (e.g.
?20 days after the operation?, ?3 years after di-agnosing the diabetes?, ?about 1 year after that?,?with the same duration?
etc.).
We call these ex-pressions relative temporal markers and note thatmuch of our temporal knowledge is relative andcannot be described by a date (Allen, 1983).The remaining 14% of the temporal markersare undetermined, like ?many years ago?, ?beforethe puberty?, ?in young age?, ?long-duration dia-betes?.
About one third of these markers refer toperiods e.g.
?for a period of 3 years?, ?with du-ration of 10-15 years?
and need to be interpretedinside the episode where they occur.Identifying a temporal expression in some sen-tence in the Patient history, we consider it as asignal for a new episode.
Thus it is very impor-tant to recognise automatically the time anchorsof the events described in the episode: whetherthey happen at the moment, designated by themarker, after or before it.
The temporal markersare accompanied by words signaling time direc-tion backwards or forward as follows:?
the preposition ?since?
(ot) unambiguouslydesignates the episode startpoint and thetime interval when the events happen.
It oc-curs in 46.78% of the temporal markers;?
the preposition ?in?
(prez) designates theepisode startpoint with probability 92.14%.It points to a moment of time and oftenmarks the beginning of a new period.
But theevents happening after ?in?
might refer back-wards to past moments, like e.g.
?diabetesdiagnosed in 2004, (as the patient) lost 20 kgin 6 months with reduced appetite?.
So therecould be past events embedded in the ?in?-started episodes which should be consideredas separate episodes (but are really difficultfor automatic identification);?
the preposition ?after?
(sled) unambigu-ously identifies a relative time moment ori-ented to the immediately preceding evente.g.
?after that?
with synonym ?later?
e.g.
?one year later?.
Another kind of referenceis explicit event specification e.g.
?after theManinil has been stopped?;?
the preposition ?before?
or ?ago?
(predi) isincluded in 11.2% of all temporal markers inour corpus.
In 97.4% of its occurrences it isassociated to a number of years/months/daysand refers to the hospitalisation date, e.g.
?3 years ago?, ?two weeks ago?.
In 87.6%of its occurrences it denotes starting pointsin the past after which some events hap-pen.
However, there are cases when ?ago?marks an endpoint, e.g.
?Since 1995 the hy-pertony 150/100 was treated by Captopril25mg, later by Enpril 10mg but two yearsago the therapy has been stopped because ofhypotony?;?
the preposition ?during, throughout?
(vprodlenie na) occurs relatively rarely,only in 1.02% of all markers.
It is usuallyassociated with explicit time period.783 Recognition of Diagnoses and DrugsWe have developed high-quality extractors of di-agnoses, drugs and dosages from EHRs in Bulgar-ian language.
These two extracting componentsare integrated in our IE system which processesPatient history episodes.Phrases designating diagnoses are juxtaposedto ICD-10 codes (ICD, 10).
Major difficulties inmatching ICD-10 diseases to text units are due to(i) numerous Latin terms written in Latin or Cyril-lic alphabets; (ii) a large variety of abbreviations;(iii) descriptions which are hard to associate toICD-10 codes, and (iv) various types of ambigu-ity e.g.
text fragments that might be juxtaposed tomany ICD-10 labels.The drug extractor finds in the EHR texts 1,850brand names of drugs and their daily dosages.Drug extraction is based on algorithms using reg-ular expressions to describe linguistic patterns.The variety of textual expressions as well as theabsent or partial dosage descriptions impede theextraction performance.
Drug names are juxta-posed to ATC codes (ATC, 11).4 IE of symptoms and conditionsOur aim is to identify diabetes symptoms andconditions in the free text of Patient history.The main challenge is to recognise automaticallyphrases and paraphrases for which no ?canonicalforms?
exist in any dictionary.
Symptom extrac-tion is done over a corpus of 1,375 dischargeletters.
We analyse certain dominant factors whendiagnosing with diabetes - values of blood sugar,body weight change and polyuria, polydipsiadescriptions.
Some examples follow:(i) Because of polyuria-polydipsia syndrome,blood sugar was - 19 mmol/l.
(ii) ... on the background of obesity - 117 kg...The challenge in the task is not only to iden-tify sentences or phrases referring to such expres-sions but to determine correctly the borders ofthe description, recognise the values, the directionof change - increased or decreased value and tocheck whether the expression is negated or not.The extraction of symptoms is a hybrid methodwhich includes document classification and rule-based pattern recognition.
It is done by a 6-steps algorithm as follows: (i) manual selectionof symptom descriptions from a training corpus;(ii) compiling a list of keyterms per each symp-tom; (iii) compiling probability vocabularies forleft- and right-border tokens per each symptomdescription according to the frequencies of theleft- and right-most tokens in the list of symp-tom descriptions; (iv) compiling a list of fea-tures per each symptom (these are all tokens avail-able in the keyterms list without the stop words);(v) performing document classification for select-ing the documents containing the symptom of in-terest based on the feature selection in the previ-ous step and (vi) selection of symptom descrip-tions by applying consecutively rules employingthe keyterms vocabulary and the left- and right-border tokens vocabularies.
For overcoming theinflexion of Bulgarian language we use stemming.The last step could be actually segmented intofive subtasks such as: focusing on the expressionswhich contain the terms; determining the scope ofthe expressions; deciding on the condition wors-ening - increased, decreased values; identifyingthe values - interval values, simple values, mea-surement units etc.
The final subtask is to deter-mine whether the expression is negated or not.5 Evaluation resultsThe evaluation of all linguistic modules is per-formed in close cooperation with medical expertswho assess the methodological feasibility of theapproach and its practical usefulness.The temporal markers, which refer to absoluteor relative moments of time, are identified withprecision 87% and recall 68%.
The direction oftime for the episode events: backwards or for-ward (with respect to certain moment orientingthe episode) is recognised with precision 74.4%.ICD-10 codes are associated to phrases withprecision 84.5%.
Actually this component hasbeen developed in a previous project where itwas run on 6,200 EHRs and has extracted 26,826phrases from the EHR section Diagnoses; correctICD-10 codes were assigned to 22,667 phrases.In this way the ICD-10 extractor uses a dictio-nary of 22,667 phrases which designate 478 ICD-10 disease names occurring in diabetic EHRs(Boytcheva, 2011a).Drug names are juxtaposed to ATC codes withf-score 98.42%; the drug dosage is recognisedwith f-score 93.85% (Boytcheva, 2011b).
Thisresult is comparable to the accuracy of the best79systems e.g.
MedEx which extracts medicationevents with 93.2% f-score for drug names, 94.5%for dosage, 93.9% for route and 96% for fre-quency (Xu et al 2010).
We also identify thedrugs taken by the patient at the moment ofhospitalisation.
This is evaluated on 355 drugnames occurring in the EHRs of diabetic pa-tients.
The extraction is done with f-score 94.17%for drugs in Patient history (over-generation 6%)(Boytcheva et al 2011).In the separate phases of symptom descriptionextraction the f-score goes up to 96%.
The com-plete blood sugar descriptions are identified with89% f-score; complete weight change descrip-tions - with 75% and complete polyuria and poly-dipsia descriptions with 90%.
These figures arecomparable to the success of extracting condi-tions, reported in (Harkema et al 2009).6 DemonstrationThe demo presents: (i) the extractors of diag-noses, drugs and conditions within episodes and(ii) their integration within a framework for tem-poral segmentation of the Patient history intoepisodes with identification of temporal mark-ers and time direction.
Thus the prototype auto-matically recognises the time period, when someevents of interest have occurred.Example 1.
(April 2004) Diabetes diagnosedlast August with blood sugar values 14mmol/l.Since then put on a diet but without followingit too strictly.
Since December follows the dietbut the blood sugar decreases to 12mmol/l.
Thismakes it necessary to prescribe Metfodiab in themorning and at noon 1/2t.
since 15.I.
Since thenthe body weight has been reduced with about 6 kg.Complains of fornication in the lower limbs.This history is broken down into the episodes,imposed by the time markers (table 1).
Pleasenote that we suggest no order for the episodes.This should be done by a temporal reasoner.However, it is hard to cope with expressionslike the ones in Examples 2-5, where more thanone temporal marker occurs in the same sentencewith possibly diverse orientation.
This requiressemantic analysis of the events happening withinthe sentences.
Example 2: Since 1,5 years withgrowing swelling of the feet which became per-manent and massive since the summer of 2003.Example 3: Diabetes type 2 with duration 2 years,diagnosed due to gradual body weight reductionEp reference August 2003direction forwardexpression last Augustcondition blood sugar 14mmol/lEp reference August 2003direction forwardexpression Since thenEp reference December 2003direction forwardexpression Since Decembercondition blood sugar 12mmol/lEp reference 15.Idirection forwardexpression since 15.Itreatment Metfodiab A10BA021/2t.
morning and noonEp reference 15.Idirection forwardexpression Since thencondition body weight reduced 6 kg.Table 1: A patient history broken down into episodes.during the last 5-6 years.
Example 4: Secondaryamenorrhoea after a childbirth 12 months ago, af-ter the birth with ceased menstruation and with-out lactation.
Example 5: Now hospitalised 3years after a radioiodine therapy of a nodular goi-ter which has been treated before that by thyreo-static medication for about a year.In conclusion, this demo presents one step inthe temporal analysis of clinical narratives: de-composition into fragments that could be consid-ered as happening in the same period of time.
Thesystem integrates various components which ex-tract important patient-related entities.
The rela-tive success is partly due to the very specific textgenre.
Further effort is needed for ordering theepisodes in timelines, which is in our researchagenda for the future.
These results will be in-tegrated into a research prototype extracting con-ceptual structures from EHRs.AcknowledgmentsThis work is supported by grant DO/02-292 EV-TIMA funded by the Bulgarian National ScienceFund in 2009-2012.
The anonymised EHRs aredelivered by the University Specialised Hospitalof Endocrinology, Medical University - Sofia.80ReferencesAllen, J.
Maintaining Knowledge about Temporal In-tervals.
Comm.
ACM, 26(11), 1983, pp.
832-843.Angelova G. and S. Boytcheva.
Towards TemporalSegmentation of Patient History in Discharge Let-ters.
In Proceedings of the Second Workshop onBiomedical Natural Language Processing, associ-ated to RANLP-2011.
September 2011, pp.
11-18.Boytcheva, S. Automatic Matching of ICD-10 Codesto Diagnoses in Discharge Letters.
In Proceed-ings of the Second Workshop on Biomedical Nat-ural Language Processing, associated to RANLP-2011.
September 2011, pp.
19-26.Boytcheva, S. Shallow Medication Extraction fromHospital Patient Records.
In Patient Safety Infor-matics - Adverse Drug Events, Human Factors andIT Tools for Patient Medication Safety, IOS Press,Studies in Health Technology and Informatics se-ries, Volume 166.
May 2011, pp.
119-128.Boytcheva, S., D. Tcharaktchiev and G. Angelova.Contextualization in automatic extraction of drugsfrom Hospital Patient Records.
In A. Moen at al.
(Eds) User Centred Networked Health Case, Pro-ceedings of MIE-2011, IOS Press, Studies in HealthTechnology and Informatics series, Volume 169.August 2011, pp.
527-531.Harkema, H., J. N. Dowling, T. Thornblade, and W.W. Chapman.
2009.
ConText: An algorithm for de-termining negation, experiencer, and temporal sta-tus from clinical reports.
J. Biomedical Informatics,42(5), 2009, pp.
839-851.Hripcsak G., L. Zhou, S. Parsons, A. K. Das, and S.B.
Johnson.
Modeling electronic dis-charge sum-maries as a simple temporal con-straint satisfactionproblem.
JAMIA (J. of Amer.
MI Assoc.)
2005,12(1), pp.
55-63.Savova, G., S. Bethard, W. Styler, J. Martin, M.Palmer, J. Masanz, and W. Ward.
Towards Tempo-ral Relation Discovery from the Clinical Narrative.In Proc.
AMIA Annual Sympo-sium 2009, pp.
568-572.Xu.H., S. P Stenner, S. Doan, K. Johnson, L. Waitman,and J. Denny.
MedEx: a medication informationextraction system for clinical narratives.
JAMIA17 (2010), pp.
19-24.Zhou L. and G. Hripcsak.
Temporal reasoning withmedical data - a review with emphasis on medicalnatural language processing.
J. Biom.
Informatics2007, 40(2), pp.
183-202.Agreement fixing the sections of Bulgarian hospitaldischarge letters.
Bulgarian Parliament, OfficialState Gazette 106 (2005), Article 190(3).ICD v.10: International Classification of Diseaseshttp://www.nchi.government.bg/download.html.ATC (Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical ClassificationSystem), http://who.int/classifications/atcddd/en.81
