Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 6?10,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsHarnessing NLP Techniques in the Processes ofMultilingual Content ManagementAnelia Belogay Diman KaragyozovTetracom IS Ltd. Tetracom IS Ltd.anelia@tetracom.com diman@tetracom.comSvetla Koeva Cristina VertanInstitute for Bulgarian Language Universitaet Hamburgsvetla@dcl.bass.bg cristina.vertan@uni-hamburg.deAdam Przepi?rkowski Polivios RaxisInstytut Podstaw Informatyki PolskiejAkademii NaukAtlantis Consulting SAadamp@ipipan.waw.pl raxis@atlantisresearch.grDan CristeaUniversitatea Alexandru Ioan Cuzadcristea@info.uaic.roAbstractThe emergence of the WWW as the mainsource of distributing content opened thefloodgates of information.
The sheervolume and diversity of this contentnecessitate an approach that will reinventthe way it is analysed.
The quantitativeroute to processing information whichrelies on content management toolsprovides structural analysis.
Thechallenge we address is to evolve fromthe process of streamlining data to a levelof understanding that assigns value tocontent.We present an open-source multilingualplatform ATALS that incorporateshuman language technologies in theprocess of multilingual web contentmanagement.
It complements a contentmanagement software-as-a-servicecomponent i-Publisher, used for creating,running and managing dynamic content-driven websites with a linguisticplatform.
The platform enriches thecontent of these websites with revealingdetails and reduces the manual work ofclassification editors by automaticallycategorising content.
The platformASSET supports six European languages.We expect ASSET to serve as a basis forfuture development of deep analysis toolscapable of generating abstractivesummaries and training models fordecision making systems.IntroductionThe advent of the Web revolutionized the way inwhich content is manipulated and delivered.
As aresult, digital content in various languages hasbecome widely available on the Internet and itssheer volume and language diversity havepresented an opportunity for embracing newmethods and tools for content creation anddistribution.
Although significant improvementshave been made in the field of web contentmanagement lately, there is still a growingdemand for online content services thatincorporate language-based technology.Existing software solutions and services suchas Google Docs, Slingshot and Amazonimplement some of the linguistic mechanismsaddressed in the platform.
The most used open-source multilingual web content management6systems (Joomla, Joom!Fish, TYPO3, Drupal)1offer low level of multilingual contentmanagement,   providing abilities for buildingmultilingual sites.
However, the availableservices are narrowly focused on meeting theneeds of very specific target groups, thus leavingunmet the rising demand for a comprehensivesolution for multilingual content managementaddressing the issues posed by the growingfamily of languages spoken within the EU.We are going to demonstrate the open-sourcecontent management platform ATLAS and asproof of concept, a multilingual library i-librarian, driven by the platform.
Thedemonstration aims to prove that people readingwebsites powered by ATLAS can easily finddocuments, kept in order via the automaticclassification, find context-sensitive content, findsimilar documents in a massive multilingual datacollection, and get short summaries in differentlanguages that help the users to discern essentialinformation with unparalleled clarity.The ?Technologies behind the system?
chapterdescribes the implementation and the integrationapproach of the core linguistic processingframework and its key sub-components ?
thecategorisation, summarisation and machine-translation engines.
The chapter ?i-Librarian ?
acase study?
outlines the functionalities of anintelligent web application built with our systemand the benefits of using it.
The chapter?Evaluation?
briefly discusses the userevaluation of the new system.
The last chapter?Conclusion and Future Work?
summarises themain achievements of the system and suggestsimprovements and extensions.Technologies behind the systemThe linguistic framework ASSET employsdiverse natural language processing (NLP) toolstechnologically and linguistically in a platform,based on UIMA 2 .
The UIMA pluggablecomponent architecture and software frameworkare designed to analyse content and to structureit.
The ATLAS core annotation schema, as auniform representation model, normalizes andharmonizes the heterogeneous nature of the NLPtools3.1 http://www.joomla.org/, http://www.joomfish.net/,http://typo3.org/, http://drupal.org/2 http://uima.apache.org/3 The system exploits heterogeneous NLP tools, forthe supported natural languages, implemented in Java,C++ and Perl.
Examples are:The processing of text in the system is splitinto three sequentially executed tasks.Firstly, the text is extracted from the inputsource (text or binary documents) in the ?pre-processing?
phase.Secondly, the text is annotated by several NLPtools, chained in a sequence in the ?processing?phase.
The language processing tools areintegrated in a language processing chain (LPC),so that the output of a given NLP tool is used asan input for the next tool in the chain.
Thebaseline LPC for each of the supported languagesincludes a sentence and paragraph splitter,tokenizer, part of speech tagger, lemmatizer,word sense disambiguation, noun phrase chunkerand named entity extractor (Cristea and Pistiol,2008).
The annotations produced by each LPCalong with additional statistical methods aresubsequently used for detection of keywords andconcepts, generation of summary of text, multi-label text categorisation and machine translation.Finally, the annotations are stored in a fusiondata store, comprising of relational database andhigh-performance Lucene4 indexes.The architecture of the language processingframework is depicted in Figure 1.Figure 1.
Architecture and communication channels inour language processing framework.The system architecture, shown in Figure 2, isbased on asynchronous message processingOpenNLP (http://incubator.apache.org/opennlp/),RASP (http://ilexir.co.uk/applications/rasp/),Morfeusz (http://sgjp.pl/morfeusz/),  Panterra(http://code.google.com/p/pantera-tagger/), ParsEst(http://dcl.bas.bg/), TnT Tagger (http://www.coli.uni-saarland.de/~thorsten/tnt/).4 http://lucene.apache.org/7patterns (Hohpe and Woolf, 2004) and thusallows the processing framework to be easilyscaled horizontally.Figure 2.
Top-level architecture of our CMS and itsmajor components.Text CategorisationWe implemented a language independent textcategorisation tool, which works for user-definedand controlled classification hierarchies.
TheNLP framework converts the texts to a series ofnatural numbers, prior sending the texts to thecategorisation engine.
This conversion allowshigh level compression of the feature space.
Thecategorisation engine employs differentalgorithms, such as Na?ve Bayesian, relativeentropy, Class-Feature Centroid (CFC) (Guan et.al., 2009), and SVM.
New algorithms can beeasily integrated because of the chosen OSGi-based architecture (OSGi Alliance, 2009).
Atailored voting system for multi-label multi-classtasks consolidates the results of each of thecategorisation algorithms.Summarisation (prototype phase)The chosen implementation approach forcoherent text summarisation combines the well-known LexRank algorithm (Erkan and Radev,2004) and semantic graphs and word-sensedisambiguation techniques (Plaza and Diaz,2011).
Furthermore, we have automatically builtthesauri for the top-level domains in order toproduce domain-focused extractive summaries.Finally, we apply clause-boundaries splitting inorder to truncate the irrelevant or subordinatingclauses in the sentences in the summary.Machine Translation (prototype phase)The machine translation (MT) sub-componentimplements the hybrid MT paradigm, combiningan example-based (EBMT) component and aMoses-based statistical approach (SMT).
Firstly,the input is processed by the example-based MTengine and if the whole or important chunks of itare found in the translation database, then thetranslation equivalents are used and if necessarycombined (Gavrila, 2011).
In all other cases theinput is processed by the categorisation sub-component in order to select the top-leveldomain and respectively, the most appropriateSMT domain- and POS-translation model(Niehues and Waibel, 2010).The translation engine in the system, based onMT Server Land (Federmann and Eisele, 2010),is able to accommodate and use different thirdparty translation engines, such as the Google,Bing, Lusy or Yahoo translators.Case Study: Multilingual Libraryi-Librarian5  is a free online library that assistsauthors, students, young researchers, scholars,librarians and executives to easily create,organise and publish various types of documentsin English, Bulgarian, German, Greek, Polishand Romanian.
Currently, a sample of thepublicly available library contains over 20 000books in English.On uploading a new document to i-Librarian,the system automatically provides the user withan extraction of the most relevant information(concepts and named entities, keywords).
Lateron, the retrieved information is used to generatesuggestions for classification in the librarycatalogue, containing 86 categories, as well as alist of similar documents.
Finally, the systemcompiles a summary and translates it in allsupported languages.
Among the supportedformats are Microsoft Office documents, PDF,OpenOffice documents, books in variouselectronic formats, HTML pages and XMLdocuments.
Users have exclusive rights tomanage content in the library at their discretion.The current version of the system supportsEnglish and Bulgarian.
In early 2012 the Polish,Greek, German and Romanian languages will bein use.5 i-Librarian web site is available at http://www.i-librarian.eu/.
One can access the i-Librarian demo contentusing ?demo@i-librarian.eu?
for username and ?sandbox?for password.8EvaluationThe technical quality and performance of thesystem is being evaluated as well as its appraisalby prospective users.
The technical evaluationuses indicators that assess the following keytechnical elements:?
overall quality and performanceattributes (MTBF6, uptime, responsetime);?
performance of specific functionalelements (content management, machinetranslation, cross-lingual contentretrieval, summarisation, textcategorisation).The user evaluation assesses the level ofsatisfaction with the system.
We measure nonfunctional elements such as:?
User friendliness and satisfaction, clarityin responses and ease of use;?
Adequacy and completeness of theprovided data and functionality;?
Impact on certain user activities and thedegree of fulfilment of common tasks.We have planned for three rounds of userevaluation; all users are encouraged to try onlinethe system, freely, or by following the providedbase-line scenarios and accompanying exercises.The main instrument for collecting user feedbackis an online interactive electronic questionnaire7.The second round of user evaluation isscheduled for Feb-March 2012, while the firstround took place in Q1 2011, with theparticipation of 33 users.
The overall userimpression was positive and the Mean value ofeach indicator (in a 5-point Likert scale) wasmeasured on AVERAGE or ABOVEAVERAGE.Figure 3.
User evaluation ?
UI friendliness and easeof use.6 Mean Time Between Failures7 The electronic questionnaire is available athttp://ue.atlasproject.euFigure 4.
User evaluation ?
user satisfaction with theavailable functionalities in the system.Figure 5.
User evaluation ?
users productivityincensement.AcknowledgmentsATLAS (Applied Technology for Language-Aided CMS) is a European project funded underthe CIP ICT Policy Support Programme, GrantAgreement 250467.Conclusion and Future WorkThe abundance of knowledge allows us to widenthe application of NLP tools, developed in aresearch environment.
The tailor made votingsystem maximizes the use of the differentcategorisation algorithms.
The novel summaryapproach adopts state of the art techniques andthe automatic translation is provided by a cuttingedge hybrid machine translation system.The content management platform and thelinguistic framework will be released as open-source software.
The language processing chainsfor Greek, Romanian, Polish and German will befully implemented by the end of 2011.
Thesummarisation engine and machine translationtools will be fully integrated in mid 2012.We expect this platform to serve as a basis forfuture development of tools that directly supportdecision making and situation awareness.
Wewill use categorical and statistical analysis inorder to recognise events and patterns, to detectopinions and predictions while processingThe user interface is friendly andeasy to useExcellent28%Good35%Average28%BelowAverage9%PoorBelow AverageAverageGoodExcellentI am satisfied with the functionalitiesBelowAverage3%Average38%Excellent31%Good28%PoorBelowAverageAverageGoodExcellentThe system increases y urproductivityExcellent13%BelowAverag9%Average31%Good47%PoorBelowAverageAverageGoodExcellent9extremely large volumes of disparate dataresources.Demonstration websitesThe multilingual content management platform isavailable for testing at http://i-publisher.atlasproject.eu/atlas/i-publisher/demo .One can access the CMS demo content using?demo?
for username and ?sandbox2?
forpassword.The multilingual library web site is availableat http://www.i-librarian.eu/.
One can access thei-Librarian demo content using ?demo@i-librarian.eu?
for username and ?sandbox?
forpassword.ReferencesDan Cristea and Ionut C. Pistol, 2008.
ManagingLanguage Resources and Tools using a Hierarchyof Annotation Schemas.
In the proceedings ofworkshop 'Sustainability of Language Resourcesand Tools for Natural Language Processing',LREC, 2008Gregor Hohpe and Bobby Woolf.
2004.
EnterpriseIntegration Patterns: Designing, Building, andDeploying Messaging Solutions.
Addison-WesleyProfessional.Hu Guan, Jingyu Zhou and Minyi Guo.
A Class-Feature-Centroid Classifier for TextCategorization.
2009.
WWW 2009 Madrid, Track:Data Mining / Session: Learning, p201-210.OSGi Alliance.
2009.
OSGi Service Platform, CoreSpecification, Release 4, Version 4.2.Gunes Erkan and Dragomir R. Radev.
2004.LexRank: Graph-based Centrality as Salience inText Summarization.
Journal of ArtificialIntelligence Research 22 (2004), p457?479.Laura Plaza and Alberto Diaz.
2011.
Using SemanticGraphs and Word Sense DisambiguationTechniques to Improve Text Summarization.Procesamiento del Lenguaje Natural, Revista n?
47septiembre de 2011 (SEPLN 2011), pp 97-105.Monica Gavrila.
2011.
Constrained Recombination inan Example-based Machine Translation System, Inthe Proceedings of the EAMT-2011: the 15thAnnual Conference of the European Associationfor Machine Translation, 30-31 May 2011, Leuven,Belgium, p. 193-200Jan Niehues and Alex Waibel.
2010.
Domainadaptation in statistical machine translation usingfactored translation models.
EAMT 2010:Proceedings of the 14th Annual conference of theEuropean Association for Machine Translation, 27-28 May 2010, Saint-Rapha?l, France.Christian Federmann and Andreas Eisele.
2010.
MTServer Land: An Open-Source MT Architecture.The Prague Bulletin of Mathematical Linguistics.NUMBER 94, 2010, p57?6610
