Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 35?40,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsFolheador: browsing through Portuguese semantic relationsHugo Gonc?alo OliveiraCISUC, University of CoimbraPortugalhroliv@dei.uc.ptHernani CostaFCCN, Linguateca &CISUC, University of CoimbraPortugalhpcosta@dei.uc.ptDiana SantosFCCN, Linguateca &University of OsloNorwayd.s.m.santos@ilos.uio.noAbstractThis paper presents Folheador, an onlineservice for browsing through Portuguesesemantic relations, acquired from differ-ent sources.
Besides facilitating the ex-ploration of Portuguese lexical knowledgebases, Folheador is connected to servicesthat access Portuguese corpora, which pro-vide authentic examples of the semantic re-lations in context.1 IntroductionLexical knowledge bases (LKBs) hold informa-tion about the words of a language and their in-teractions, according to their possible meanings.They are typically structured on word senses,which may be connected by means of semantic re-lations.
Besides important resources for languagestudies, LKBs are key resources in the achieve-ment of natural language processing tasks, suchas word sense disambiguation (see e.g.
Agirre etal.
(2009)) or question answering (see e.g.
Pascaand Harabagiu (2001)).Regarding the complexity of most knowledgebases, their data formats are generally not suitedfor being read by humans.
User interfaces havethus been developed for providing easier ways ofexploring the knowledge base and assessing itscontents.
For instance, for LKBs, in addition toinformation on words and semantic relations, it isimportant that these interfaces provide usage ex-amples where semantic relations hold, or at leastwhere related words co-occur.In this paper, we present Folheador1, an on-line browser for Portuguese LKBs.
Besides an1See http://www.linguateca.pt/Folheador/interface for navigating through semantic rela-tions acquired from different sources, Folheadoris linked to two services that provide access toPortuguese corpora, thus allowing observation ofrelated words co-occurring in authentic contextsof use, some of them even evaluated by humans.After introducing several well-known LKBsand their interfaces, we present Folheador andits main features, also detailing the contents ofthe knowledge base currently browseable throughthis interface, which contains information ac-quired from public domain lexical resources ofPortuguese.
Then, before concluding, we discussadditional features planned for the future.2 Related WorkHere, we mention a few interfaces that ease theexploration of well-known knowledge bases.
Re-garding the knowledge base structure, some of theinterfaces are significantly different.Princeton WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) is themost widely used LKB to date.
In addition toother alternatives, the creators of WordNet pro-vide online access to their resource through theWordNet Search interface (Princeton University,2010)2.
As WordNet is structured around synsets(groups of synonymous lexical items), queryingfor a word prompts all synsets containing thatword to be presented.
For each synset, its part-of-speech (PoS), a gloss and a usage example areprovided.
Synsets can also be expanded to accessthe semantic relations they are involved in.As a resource also organised in synsets, the2http://wordnetweb.princeton.edu/perl/webwn35Brazilian Portuguese thesaurus TeP3 has a sim-ilar interface (Maziero et al 2008).
Neverthe-less, since TeP does not contain relations besidesantonymy, its interface is simpler and providesonly the synsets containing a queried word andtheir part-of-speech.MindNet (Vanderwende et al 2005) is a LKBextracted automatically, mainly from dictionar-ies, and structured on semantic relations connect-ing word senses to words.
Its authors provideMNEX4, an online interface for MindNet.
Afterquerying for a pair of words, MNEX provides allthe semantic relation paths between them, estab-lished by a set of links that connect directly orindirectly one word to another.
It is also possibleto view the definitions that originated the path.FrameNet (Baker et al 1998) is a man-ually built knowledge base structured on se-mantic frames that describe objects, states orevents.
There are several means for explor-ing FrameNet easily, including FrameSQL (Sato,2003)5, which allows searching for frames, lexi-cal units and relations in an integrated interface,and FrameGrapher6, a graphical interface for thevisualization of frame relations.
For each frame,in both interfaces, a textual definition, annotatedsentences of the frame elements, lists of the framerelations, and lists with the lexical units in theframe are provided.ReVerb (Fader et al 2011) is a Web-scaleinformation extraction system that automaticallyacquires binary relations from text.
Using ReVerbSearch7, a web interface for ReVerb extractions, itis possible to obtain sets of relational triples wherethe predicate and/or the arguments contain givenstrings.
Regarding that each of the former is op-tional, it is possible, for instance, to search for alltriples with the predicate loves and first argumentPortuguese.
Search results include the matchingtriples, organised according to the name of thepredicate, as well as the number of times eachtriple was extracted.
The sentences where eachtriple was extracted from are as well provided.3http://www.nilc.icmc.usp.br/tep24http://stratus.research.microsoft.com/mnex/5http://framenet2.icsi.berkeley.edu/frameSQL/fn2_15/notes/6https://framenet.icsi.berkeley.edu/fndrupal/FrameGrapher7http://www.cs.washington.edu/research/textrunner/reverbdemo.htmlFinally, Visual Thesaurus (Huiping et al2006)8 is a proprietary graphical interface thatprovides an alternative way of exploring a knowl-edge base structured on word senses, synonymy,antonymy and hypernymy relations.
It presents agraph centered on a queried word, connected to itssenses, as well as semantic relations between thesenses and other words.
Nodes and edges have adifferent color or look, respectively according tothe PoS of the sense or to the type of semantic re-lation.
If a word is clicked, a new graph, centeredon that word, is drawn.3 FolheadorFolheador, in figure 2, is an online service forbrowsing through instances of semantic relations,represented as relational triples.Folheador was originally designed as an inter-face for PAPEL (Gonc?alo Oliveira et al 2010),a public domain lexical-semantic network, auto-matically extracted from a proprietary dictionary.It was soon expanded to other (public) resourcesfor Portuguese as well (see Santos et al(2010) foran overview of Portuguese LKBs).The current version of Folheador browsesthrough a LKB that, besides PAPEL, in-tegrates semantic triples from the followingsources: (i) synonymy acquired from two hand-crafted thesauri of Portuguese9, TeP (Dias-Da-Silva and de Moraes, 2003; da Silva et al2002) and OpenThesaurus.PT10; (ii) relations ex-tracted automatically in the scope of the projectOnto.PT (Gonc?alo Oliveira and Gomes, 2010;Gonc?alo Oliveira et al 2011), which includetriples extracted from Wiktionary.PT11, and fromDiciona?rio Aberto (Simo?es and Farinha, 2011),both public domain dictionaries.Underlying relation triples in Folheador arethus in the form x RELATED-TO y, where x andy are lexical items and RELATED-TO is a predi-cate.
Their interpretation is as follows: one senseof x is related to one sense of y, by means of a re-lation whose type is identified by RELATED-TO.8http://www.visualthesaurus.com/9We converted the thesauri to triples x synonym-of y,where x and y are lexical items in the same synset.10http://openthesaurus.caixamagica.pt/11http://pt.wiktionary.org/36Figure 1: Folheador?s interface.3.1 NavigationIt is possible to use Folheador for searching forall relations with one, two, or no fixed arguments,and one or no types (relation names).
Combiningthese options, Folheador can be used, for instance,to obtain: all lexical items related to a particularitem; all relations between two lexical items; or asample of relations involving a particular type.The matching triples are listed and may befiltered according to the resource they were ex-tracted from.
For each triple, the PoS of the ar-guments is shown, as well as a list with the iden-tification of the resources from where it was ac-quired.
The arguments of each triple are also linksthat make navigation easier.
When clicked, Fol-heador behaves the same way as if it had beenqueried with the clicked word as argument.
Also,since the queried lexical item may occur in thefirst or in the second argument of a triple, whenit occurs in the second, Folheador inverts the rela-tion, so that the item appears always as the first ar-gument.
Therefore, there is no need to store boththe direct and the inverse triples.Consider the example in figure 2: it showsthe triples retrieved after searching for the wordcomputador (computer, in English).
In most ofthe retrieved triples, computador is a noun (e.g.computador HIPONIMO DE ma?quina), but thereare relations where it is an adjective (e.g.
com-putador PROPRIEDADE DO QUE computar).Moreover, as hypernymy relations are stored inthe form x HIPERONIMO DE y, some of thetriples presented, such as computador HIPON-IMO DE ma?quina and computador HIPON-IMO DE aparelho, have been inverted on the fly.Furthermore, for each triple, Folheadorpresents: a confidence value based on the mereco-occurrence of the words in corpora; andanother based on the co-occurrence of the relatedwords instantiating discriminating patterns of theparticular relation.3.2 Graph visualizationCurrently, Folheador contains a very simple visu-alization tool, which draws the semantic relationgraph established by the search results in a page,as in figure 3.2.
In the future, we aim to provide analternative for navigation based on textual links,which would be made through the graph.3.3 The use of corporaOne of the problems of most lexical resources isthat they do not integrate or contain frequency in-37Figure 2: Graph for the results in figure 2.formation.
This is especially true when one is notsimply listing words but going deeper into mean-ing, and listing semantic properties like wordsenses or relationships between senses.So, a list of relations among words can con-flate a number of highly specialized and obsoletewords (or word senses) that co-occur with im-portant and productive relations in everyday use,which is not a good thing for human and auto-matic users alike.
On the other hand, using cor-pora allows one to add frequency information toboth participants in the relation and the triplesthemselves, and thus provide another axis to thedescription of words.In addition, it is always interesting to observelanguage use in context, especially in cases wherethe user is not sure whether the relation is cor-rect or still in use (and the user can and shouldbe fairly suspicious when s/he is browsing auto-matically compiled information).
A corpus checktherefore provides illustration, and confirmation,to a user facing an unusual or surprising relation,in addition to evaluation data for the relation cu-rator or lexicographer.
If these checks have beendone before by a set of human beings (as is thecase of VARRA (Freitas et al forthcomming)),one can have much more confidence on the databrowsed, something that is important for users.Having this in mind, besides allowing to queryfor stored relational triples, Folheador is con-nected to AC/DC (Santos and Bick, 2000; San-tos, 2011), an online service that provides ac-cess to a large set of Portuguese corpora.
In justone click, it is possible to query for all the sen-tences in the AC/DC corpora connecting the argu-ments of a retrieved triple.
Figure 3.3 shows someof the results for the words computador (com-puter) and aparelho (apparatus).
While some ofthe returned sentences might contain the relatedwords co-occurring almost by chance or withouta clear semantic relation, other sentences validatethe triple (e.g.
sentence par=saude16727 in fig-ure 3.3).
Sometimes, the sentences might as wellinvalidate the triple.Furthermore, for some of the relation types, itis possible to connect to another online service,VARRA (Freitas et al forthcomming), which isbased on a set of patterns that express some of therelation types, in corpora text.
After clicking onthe VARRA link, this service is queried for occur-rences of the corresponding triple in AC/DC.
Thepresented sentences (a subset of those returnedby the previous service) will thus contain the re-lated words connected by a discriminating pat-tern for the relation they hold.
Figure 3.3 showstwo sentences returned for the relation computa-dor HIPONIMO DE ma?quina.These patterns, as those proposed by Hearst(1992) and used in many projects since, may notbe 100% reliable.
So, VARRA was designed toallow human users to classify the sentences ac-cording to whether the latter validate the relation,are just compatible with it, or not even that.In fact, people do not usually write defini-tions, especially when using common sense termsin ordinary discourse.
Thus, co-occurrence ofsemantically-related terms frequently indicates aparticular relation only implicitly.
The choiceof assessing sentences as good validators of asemantic relation is related to the task of auto-matically finding good illustrative examples fordictionaries, which is a surprisingly complextask (Rychly?
et al 2008).This kind of information, amassed with thehelp of VARRA, is much more difficult to cre-ate, but is of great value to Folheador, since itprovides good illustrative contexts for the relatedlexical items.4 Further work and concluding remarksWe have shown that, as it is, Folheador is veryuseful, as it enables to browse for triples withfixed arguments, it identifies the source of thetriples, and, in one click, it provides real sentences38Figure 3: AC/DC: some sentences returned for the related words computador and aparelho.Figure 4: VARRA: sentences that exemplify the relation computador hyponym-of ma?quina.where related lexical items co-occur.
Still, we areplanning to implement new basic features, such asthe suggestion of words, when the searched wordis not in the LKB.
Also, while currently Folheadoronly directly connects to AC/DC and VARRA, inorder to increase its usability, we plan to connect itautomatically to online definitions and other ser-vices available on the Web.
We intend as well tocrosslink Folheador from the AC/DC interface, inthe sense that one can invoke Folheador also byjust one click (Santos, forthcomming).Currently, Folheador gives access to 169,385lexical items: 93,612 nouns, 38,409 verbs, 33,497adjectives and 3,867 adverbs, in a total of 722,589triples, and it can browse through the followingtypes of semantic relations: synonymy, hyper-nymy, part-of, member-of, causation, producer-of, purpose-of, place-of, and property-of.
How-ever, as the underlying resources, especially theones created automatically, will continue to be up-dated, one important challenge is to create a ser-vice that does not get outdated, by accompany-ing the progress of these resources, ideally doingan automatic update every month.
Furthermore,we believe that quantitative studies on the com-parison and the aggregation of the integrated re-sources should be made, deeper than what is pre-sented in Gonc?alo Oliveira et al(2011).We would like to end by emphasizing that weare aware that the proper interpretation of thesemantic relations may vary in the different re-sources, even disregarding possible mistakes inthe automatic harvesting.
It is enough to considerthe (regular morphological) relation between averb and an adjective/noun ended in -dor in Por-tuguese (and which can be paraphrased by onewho Vs).
For instance, in relations such as {sofrer- sofredor}, {correr - corredor}, {roer - roedor},the kind of verb defines the kind of temporal re-lation conveyed: a rodent is essentially roendo,while a sofredor (sufferer) suffers hopefully in aparticular situation and can stop suffering, and acorredor (runner) runs as job or as role.The source code of Folheador is open source12,so it may be used by other authors to explore theirknowledge bases.
Technical information aboutFolheador may be found in Costa (2011).AcknowledgementsFolheador was developed under the scope of Lin-guateca, throughout the years jointly funded bythe Portuguese Government, the European Union(FEDER and FSE), UMIC, FCCN and FCT.
HugoGonc?alo Oliveira is supported by the FCT grantSFRH/BD/44955/2008 co-funded by FSE.ReferencesEneko Agirre, Oier Lopez De Lacalle, and AitorSoroa.
2009.
Knowledge-based WSD on spe-cific domains: performing better than generic su-pervised WSD.
In Proceedings of 21st Interna-12Available from http://code.google.com/p/folheador/39tional Joint Conference on Artifical Intelligence,IJCAI?09, pages 1501?1506, San Francisco, CA,USA.
Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc.Collin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and John B.Lowe.
1998.
The Berkeley FrameNet project.
InProceedings of the 17th international conferenceon Computational linguistics, pages 86?90, Morris-town, NJ, USA.
ACL Press.Hernani Costa.
2011.
O desenho do novo Folheador.Technical report, Linguateca.Bento C. Dias da Silva, Mirna F. de Oliveira, andHelio R. de Moraes.
2002.
Groundwork for theDevelopment of the Brazilian Portuguese Wordnet.In Nuno Mamede and Elisabete Ranchhod, editors,Advances in Natural Language Processing (PorTAL2002), LNAI, pages 189?196, Berlin/Heidelberg.Springer.Bento Carlos Dias-Da-Silva and Helio Robertode Moraes.
2003.
A construc?a?o de um the-saurus eletro?nico para o portugue?s do Brasil.
ALFA,47(2):101?115.Anthony Fader, Stephen Soderland, and Oren Etzioni.2011.
Identifying relations for open information ex-traction.
In Proceedings of the Conference of Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,EMNLP ?11, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: An Elec-tronic Lexical Database (Language, Speech, andCommunication).
The MIT Press.Cla?udia Freitas, Diana Santos, Hugo Gonc?alo Oliveira,and Violeta Quental.
forthcomming.
VARRA:Validac?a?o, Avaliac?a?o e Revisa?o de Relac?o?essema?nticas no AC/DC.
In Atas do IX Encontro deLingu?
?stica de Corpus, ELC 2010.Hugo Gonc?alo Oliveira and Paulo Gomes.
2010.Onto.PT: Automatic Construction of a Lexical On-tology for Portuguese.
In Proceedings of 5th Eu-ropean Starting AI Researcher Symposium (STAIRS2010), pages 199?211.
IOS Press.Hugo Gonc?alo Oliveira, Diana Santos, and PauloGomes.
2010.
Extracc?a?o de relac?o?es sema?nticasentre palavras a partir de um diciona?rio: o PAPEL esua avaliac?a?o.
Linguama?tica, 2(1):77?93.Hugo Gonc?alo Oliveira, Leticia Anto?n Pe?rez, HernaniCosta, and Paulo Gomes.
2011.
Uma rede le?xico-sema?ntica de grandes dimenso?es para o portugue?s,extra?
?da a partir de diciona?rios electro?nicos.
Lin-guama?tica, 3(2):23?38.Marti A. Hearst.
1992.
Automatic acquisition of hy-ponyms from large text corpora.
In Proceedingsof 14th Conference on Computational Linguistics,pages 539?545, Morristown, NJ, USA.
ACL Press.Du Huiping, He Lin, and Hou Hanqing.
2006.Thinkmap visual thesaurus:a new kind of knowl-edge organization system.
Library Journal, 12.Erick G. Maziero, Thiago A. S. Pardo, Ariani Di Fe-lippo, and Bento C. Dias-da-Silva.
2008.
A Base deDados Lexical e a Interface Web do TeP 2.0 - The-saurus Eletro?nico para o Portugue?s do Brasil.
In VIWorkshop em Tecnologia da Informac?a?o e da Lin-guagem Humana, TIL 2008, pages 390?392.Marius Pasca and Sanda M. Harabagiu.
2001.
The in-formative role of WordNet in open-domain questionanswering.
In Proceedings of NAACL 2001 Work-shop on WordNet and Other Lexical Resources: Ap-plications, Extensions and Customizations, pages138?143, Pittsburgh, USA.Princeton University.
2010.
Princeton university?About Wordnet?.
http://wordnet.princeton.edu.Pavel Rychly?, Milos?
Husa?k, Adam Kilgarriff, MichaelRundell, and Katy McAdam.
2008.
GDEX: Auto-matically finding good dictionary examples in a cor-pus.
In Proceedings of the XIII EURALEX Interna-tional Congress, pages 425?432, Barcelona.
InstitutUniversitari de Lingu??
?stica Aplicada.Diana Santos and Eckhard Bick.
2000.
ProvidingInternet access to Portuguese corpora: the AC/DCproject.
In Proceedings of 2nd International Con-ference on Language Resources and Evaluation,LREC?2000, pages 205?210.
ELRA.Diana Santos, Anabela Barreiro, Cla?udia Freitas,Hugo Gonc?alo Oliveira, Jose?
Carlos Medeiros, Lu?
?sCosta, Paulo Gomes, and Rosa?rio Silva.
2010.Relac?o?es sema?nticas em portugue?s: comparando oTeP, o MWN.PT, o Port4NooJ e o PAPEL.
InA.
M. Brito, F. Silva, J. Veloso, and A. Fie?is, editors,Textos seleccionados.
XXV Encontro Nacional daAssociac?a?o Portuguesa de Lingu?
?stica, pages 681?700.
APL.Diana Santos.
2011.
Linguateca?s infrastructurefor Portuguese and how it allows the detailedstudy of language varieties.
OSLa: Oslo Stud-ies in Language, 3(2):113?128.
Volume edited byJ.B.Johannessen, Language variation infrastructure.Diana Santos.
forthcomming.
Corpora at linguateca:vision and roads taken.
In Tony Berber Sardinhaand Telma S ao Bento Ferreira, editors, Workingwith Portuguese corpora.Hiroaki Sato.
2003.
FrameSQL: A software tool forFrameNet.
In Proceedings of Asialex 2003, pages251?258, Tokyo.
Asian Association of Lexicogra-phy, Asian Association of Lexicography.Alberto Simo?es and Rita Farinha.
2011.
Diciona?rioAberto: Um novo recurso para PLN.
Vice-Versa,pages 159?171.Lucy Vanderwende, Gary Kacmarcik, Hisami Suzuki,and Arul Menezes.
2005.
Mindnet: Anautomatically-created lexical resource.
In Proceed-ings of HLT/EMNLP 2005 Interactive Demonstra-tions, pages 8?9, Vancouver, British Columbia,Canada.
ACL Press.40
