Proceedings of the 13th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 829?839,Avignon, France, April 23 - 27 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsNot as Awful as it Seems: Explaining German Case throughComputational Experiments in Fluid Construction GrammarRemi van TrijpSony Computer Science Laboratory Paris6 Rue Amyot75005 Paris (France)remi@csl.sony.frAbstractGerman case syncretism is often assumedto be the accidental by-product of historicaldevelopment.
This paper contradicts thisclaim and argues that the evolution of Ger-man case is driven by the need to optimizethe cognitive effort and memory requiredfor processing and interpretation.
This hy-pothesis is supported by a novel kind ofcomputational experiments that reconstructand compare attested variations of the Ger-man definite article paradigm.
The exper-iments show how the intricate interactionbetween those variations and the rest of theGerman ?linguistic landscape?
may directlanguage change.1 IntroductionIn his 1880 essay, Mark Twain famously com-plained that The awful German Language is themost ?slipshod and systemless, and so slipperyand elusive to grasp?
language of all.
A brieflook at the literature on the German case systemseems to provide sufficient evidence for instantlyagreeing with the American author.
But what ifthe German case system were not the accidentalby-product of diachronic changes as is often as-sumed?
Are there linguistic forces that are not yetfully appreciated in the field, but which may ex-plain the German case paradigm?This paper demonstrates that there indeed aresuch forces through a case study on German def-inite articles.
The experiments ?reconstruct?
deeplanguage processing models for different variantsof this paradigm, and show how the ?linguisticlandscape?
of German has allowed its speakers toreduce their definite article system without loss inefficiency for processing and interpretation.2 The Problem of German CaseGerman articles, adjectives and nouns are markedfor gender, number and case through morpholog-ical inflection, as illustrated for definite articles inTable 1.Case SG-M SG-F SG-N PLNOM der die das dieACC den die das dieDAT dem der dem denGEN des der des derTable 1: German definite articles.The system is notorious for its syncretism (i.e.the same form can be mapped onto different func-tions), a riddle that has fascinated many formaland historical linguists looking for explanations.2.1 Historical LinguisticsStudies in historical linguistics and grammatical-ization often propose the following three forces toexplain syncretism (Heine and Kuteva, 2005, p.148):1.
The formal distinction between case markersis lost through phonological changes.2.
One case takes over the functional domain ofanother case and replaces it.3.
A case marker disappears and its functionsare usurped by another marker.Syncretism is thus considered as the accidentalby-product of such forces, and German case syn-cretism is typically analyzed according to theselines (Bar?dal, 2009; Baerman, 2009, p. 229).However, these forces are not explanatory: theyonly describe what has happened, but not why.829Another problem for the ?syncretism by acci-dent?
hypothesis is the fact that the collapsing ofcase forms is not randomly distributed over thewhole paradigm as would be expected.
Hawkins(2004, p. 78) observes that instead there is a sys-tematic tendency for ?lower?
cells in the paradigm(e.g.
genitive; Table 1) to collapse before cells in?higher?
positions (e.g.
nominative) do so.2.2 Formal LinguisticsMany hidden effects of verbal linguistic theo-ries can be uncovered through explicit formaliza-tions.
Unfortunately, formal linguists also typi-cally distinguish between ?systematic?
and ?non-systematic?
syncretism when analyzing Germancase.
For instance, in his review of a number ofstudies on German (a.o.
Bierwisch, 1967; Blevins,1995; Wiese, 1996; Wunderlich, 1997), M?ller(2002) concludes that none of these approachesis able to rule out accidental syncretism.There is however one major stone that has beenleft unturned by formal linguists: processing.Most formal theories, such as HPSG (Ginzburgand Sag, 2000), assume a strict division between?competence?
and ?performance?
and thereforerepresent linguistic knowledge in a purely declar-ative, process-independent way (Sag and Wasow,2011).
While such an approach may be desirablefrom a ?mathematical?
point of view, it puts theburden of efficient processing on the shouldersof computational linguists, who have to developmore intelligent interpreters.One example of the gap between descriptionand computational implementation is disjunctivefeature representation, which became popular infeature-based grammar formalisms in the 1980s(Karttunen, 1984).
Disjunctions allow an elegantnotation for multiple feature values, as illustratedin example 1 for the German definite article die,which is either assigned nominative or accusativecase, and which is either feminine-singular or plu-ral.
The feature structure (adopted from Kart-tunen, 1984, p. 30) represents disjunctions by en-closing the alternatives in curly brackets ({ }).(1)?????????AGREEMENT?????????
[GENDER fNUM sg][NUM pl]????????
?CASE{nom acc}????????
?However, it is a well-established fact that dis-junctions are computationally expensive, whichis illustrated in the top of Figure 1.
This Fig-ure shows the search tree of a small grammarwhen parsing the utterance Die Kinder gaben derLehrerin die Zeichnung (?the children gave thedrawing to the (female) teacher?
), which is un-ambiguous to German speakers.
As can be seenin the Figure, the search tree has to explore sev-eral branches before arriving at a valid solution.Most of the splits are caused by disjunctions.
Forexample, when a determiner-noun constructionspecifies that the case features of the definite ar-ticle die (nominative or accusative) and the nounKinder (?children?
; nominative, accusative or gen-itive) have to unify, the search tree splits into twohypotheses (a nominative and an accusative read-ing) even though for native speakers of German,the syntactic context unambiguously points to anominative reading (because it is the only nounphrase that agrees with the main verb).It should be no surprise, then, that a lot of workhas focused on processing disjunctions more ef-ficiently (e.g.
Carter, 1990; Ramsay, 1990).
Asobserved by Flickinger (2000), however, most ofthese studies implicitly assume that the grammarrepresentation has to remain unchanged.
He thendemonstrates through computational experimentshow a different representation can directly impactefficiency, and argues that revisions of the gram-mar for efficiency should be discussed more thor-oughly in the literature.The impact of representation on processing isillustrated at the bottom of Figure 1, which showsthe performance of a grammar that uses the sameprocessing technique for handling the same utter-ance, but a different representation than the dis-junctive grammar.
As can be seen, the alternativegrammar (whose technical details are disclosedfurther below) is able to parse the German defi-nite articles without tears, and the resulting searchtree arguably better reflects the actual processingperformed by native speakers of German.2.3 Alternative HypothesisThe effect of processing-friendly representationson search suggests that answers for the unsolvedproblems concerning case syncretism have tobe sought in performance.
This paper there-fore rejects the processing-independent approachand explores the alternative hypothesis, following830(a) Search with disjunctive feature representation:topinitialstructure topapplicationprocessqueueresetsem syninitial* der-lex(lex), die-lex (lex),die-lex(lex),gaben-lex(lex),zeichnung-lex (lex)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)lehrerin-lex (lex)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)kinder-lex(lex)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)kinder-lex(lex)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)ditransitive-cxn (arg)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)+determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)lehrerin-lex (lex)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)kinder-lex(lex)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)kinder-lex(lex)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn(marked-phrasal)ditransitive-cxn (arg)determiner-nominal-phrase-cxn (marked-phrasal) kinder-lex (lex) lehrerin-lex (lex) zeichnung-lex (lex)(b) Search with feature matrices:toptopParsing "die Kinder gaben der Lehrerin die Z ichnung .
"Applying construction set (8)  in directionFound a solutioninitialstructure topapplicationprocessqueueappliedconstructions... and 1 moreresultingstructuretopMeaning:((teacher.f ?recipient-1) (unique-referent ?recipient-1) (drawing ?sem-role-3)(unique-referent ?sem-role-3) (children ?ref-2) (unique-referent ?ref-2)(gave ?ev-1 ?ref-2 ?sem-role-3 ?recipient-1))resetsem syninitial * zeichnung-lex,  kinder-lex,  lehrerin-lex,  gaben-lex,  die-lex,  detnp-cxn,die-lex ,  detnp-cxn,  der-lex,  detnp-cxnditransitive-cxndetnp-cxn der-lex (t) die-lex (t) die-lex (t)ditransitive-cxn detnp-cxn der-lex (t) detnp-cxn die-lex (t) detnp-cxn die-lex (t) gaben-lex (t)lehrerin-lex (t) kinder-lex (t)ditransitive-unit-1detnp-unit-1kinder-1die-1detnp-unit-2zeichnung-1die-2gaben-1detnp-unit-3lehrerin-1der-1sem syn ditransitive-unit-1detnp-unit-3der-1lehrerin-1detnp-unit-2die-2zeichnung-1detnp-unit-1die-1kinder-1gaben-1Figure 1: The representation of linguistic information has a direct impact on processing efficiency.
The topfigure shows a search tree when parsing the unambiguous utterance Die Kinder gaben der Lehrerin die Zeich-nung (?The children gave the drawing to the (female) teacher?)
using disjunctive feature representation.
Thebottom figure shows the search tree using distinctive feature matrices.
Labels in the boxes show the namesof the applied constructions; boxes with a bold border are successful end nodes.
Both grammars have beenimplemented in Fluid Construction Grammar (FCG; Steels, 2011, 2012a) and are processed using a standarddepth-first search algorithm (Bleys et al 2011) and general unification (without optimization for particulartypes or data structures; Steels and De Beule, 2006; De Beule, 2012).
The utterance is assumed to be seg-mented into words.
Interested readers can explore the Figure through an interactive web demonstration athttp://www.fcg-net.org/demos/design-patterns/07-feature-matrices/.Steels (2004, 2012b), that grammar evolves in or-der to optimize communicative success by damp-ening the search space in linguistic processing andreducing the cognitive effort needed for interpre-tation, while at the same time minimizing the re-sources required for doing so.
More specifically,this paper explores the following claims:1.
The G rman definite article system can beprocessed as efficiently as its Old High Ger-man predecessor, which had less syncretism.2.
The presence of other grammatical structureshave made it possible to reduce the definitearticle paradigm without increasing the cog-nitive effort needed for disambiguating theargument structures that underly German ut-terances.3.
The decrease of cue-reliability of case fordisambiguation encourages the emergence ofcompeting systems (such as word order).The hypothesis is substantiated through com-putational experiments that reconstruct three dif-ferent variants of the German definite article sys-tem (the current system, its Old High German pre-decessor, Wright, 1906; and the Texas Germandialect system, Boas, 2009a,b) and compare theirperformance in terms of processing efficiency andcognitive effort in interpretation.3 Operationalizing German CaseAn adequate operationalization of German caserequires a bidirectional grammar (for parsing andproduction) and easy access to linguistic process-831ing data.
All experiments reported in this paperhave therefore been implemented in Fluid Con-struction Grammar (FCG; Steels, 2011, 2012a), aunification-based grammar formalism that comesequipped with an interactive web interface andmonitoring tools (Loetzsch, 2012).
A second ad-vantage of FCG is that it features strong bidirec-tionality: the FCG-interpreter can achieve bothparsing and production using the same linguisticinventory.
Other feature structure platforms, suchas the lkb-system (Copestake, 2002), require aseparate parser and generator for formalizing bidi-rectional grammars, which make them less suitedfor substantiating the claims of this paper.3.1 Distinctive Feature MatrixGerman case has become the litmus test fordemonstrating how well a feature-based grammarformalism copes with multifunctionality, espe-cially since Ingria (1990) provocatively stated thatunification is not the best technique for handlingit.
People have gone to great lengths to counterIngria?s claim, especially within the HPSG frame-work (e.g.
M?ller, 1999; Daniels, 2001; Sag,2003), and various formalizations have been of-fered for German case (Heinz and Matiasek,1994; M?ller, 2001; Crysmann, 2005).
However,these proposals either do not succeed in avoidinginefficient disjunctions or they require a complexdouble type hierarchy (Crysmann, 2005).The experiments in this paper use a morestraightforward solution, called a distinctive fea-ture matrix, which is based on an idea that wasfirst explored by Ingria (1990) and of which avariation has recently also been proposed forLexical Functional Grammar (Dalrymple et al2009).
Instead of treating case as a single-valuedfeature, it can be represented as an array of fea-tures, as shown for the definite article die (ignor-ing the genitive case for the time being):(2) die:????CASE??
?nom ?nomacc ?accdat ???????
?The case feature includes a paradigm of threecases (nom, acc and dat), whose values can ei-ther be ?+?
or ??
?, or left unspecified through avariable (indicated by a question mark).
The twovariables ?nom and ?acc indicate that die canpotentially be assigned nominative or accusativecase, the value ???
for dative means that die can-not be assigned dative case.
We can do the samefor Kinder (?children?
), which can be nominativeor accusative, but not dative:(3) Kinder:????CASE??
?nom ?nomacc ?accdat ???????
?As demonstrated in Figure 1, disjunctive fea-ture representation would cause a split in thesearch tree when unifying die and Kinder.
Us-ing a feature matrix, however, the choice betweena nominative and accusative reading can simplybe postponed until enough information from therest of the utterance is available.
Unifying die andKinder yields the following feature structure:(4) die Kinder:????CASE??
?nom ?nomacc ?accdat ???????
?3.2 A Three-Dimensional MatrixThe German case paradigm is obviously morecomplex than the examples shown so far.
Let?sconsider Table 1 again, but this time we replaceevery cell in the table by a variable.
This leads tothe following feature matrix for the German defi-nite articles:Case SG-M SG-F SG-N PL?NOM ?n-s-m ?n-s-f ?n-s-n ?n-pl?ACC ?a-s-m ?a-s-f ?a-s-n ?a-pl?DAT ?d-s-m ?d-s-f ?d-s-n ?d-pl?GEN ?g-s-m ?g-s-f ?g-s-n ?g-plTable 2: A distinctive feature matrix for German case.Each cell in this matrix represents a specificfeature bundle that collects the features case,number, and person.
For example, the variable?n-s-m stands for nominative singular mascu-line.
Note that also the cases themselves havetheir own variable (?nom, ?acc, ?dat and?gen).
This allows us to single out a specific di-mension of the matrix for constructions that onlycare about case distinctions, but abstract awayfrom gender or number.
Each linguistic item fillsin as much information as possible in this casematrix.
For example, Table 3 shows how the def-inite article die underspecifies its potential valuesand rules out all other options through ??
?.832Case SG-M SG-F SG-N PL?NOM ?
?n-s-f ?
?n-pl?ACC ?
?a-s-f ?
?a-pl?
?
?
?
??
?
?
?
?Table 3: The feature matrix of die.The feature matrix of Kinder (?children?
),which underspecifies for nominative, accusativeand genitive, is shown in Table 4.
Notice, how-ever, that the same variable names are used forboth the column that singles out the case dimen-sion as for the column of the plural feature bun-dles.Case SG-M SG-F SG-N PL?n-pl ?
?
?
?n-pl?a-pl ?
?
?
?a-pl?
?
?
?
?
?g-pl ?
?
?
?g-plTable 4: The feature matrix of Kinder (?children?
).Unification of die and Kinder can exploit thesevariable ?equalities?
for ruling out a singular valueof the definite article.
Likewise, the matrix of dierules out the genitive reading of Kinder, as illus-trated in Table 5.Case SG-M SG-F SG-N PL?n-pl ?
?
?
?n-pl?a-pl ?
?
?
?a-pl?
?
?
?
??
?
?
?
?Table 5: The feature matrix of die Kinder.Argument structure constructions (Goldberg,2006), such as the ditransitive, can then later as-sign either nominative or accusative case.
Themain advantage of feature matrices is that linguis-tic search only has to commit to specific feature-values once sufficient information is available, sothe search tree only splits when there is an actualambiguity.
Moreover, they can be handled usingstandard unification.
Interested readers can con-sult van Trijp (2011) for a thorough description ofthe approach, as well as a discussion on how theFCG implementation differs from Ingria (1990)and Dalrymple et al(2009).4 ExperimentsThis section describes the experimental set-up anddiscusses the experimental results.4.1 Three ParadigmsThe experiments compare three different variantsof the German definite article paradigm.Standard German.
The Standard Germanparadigm has been illustrated in Table 1 and itsoperationalization has been shown in section 3.2.The paradigm has been inherited without signifi-cant changes from Middle High German (1050-1350; Walshe, 1974) and features six differentforms.Old High German.
The Old High Germanparadigm is the direct predecessor of the currentparadigm of definite articles.
It contained at leasttwelve distinct forms (depending on which varia-tion is taken) that included gender distinctions inplural (Wright, 1906, p. 67).
It also included onedefinite article that marked the now extinct instru-mental case, which is ignored in this paper.
Thevariant of the Old High German paradigm that hasbeen implemented in the experiments is summa-rized in Table 6.Case SingularM F NNOM d?r diu daz?ACC d?n die daz?DAT d?mu d?ru d?muGEN d?s d?ra d?sPluralM F NNOM die deo diuACC die deo diuDAT de?m de?m de?mGEN d?ro d?ro d?roTable 6: The Old High German definite article system.Texas German.
The third variant is anAmerican-German dialect called Texas German(Boas, 2009a,b), which evolved a two-way casedistinction between nominative and oblique.
Thistype of case system, in which the accusative anddative case have collapsed, is also a commonevolution in the Low German dialects (Shrier,1965).
The implemented paradigm of TexasGerman is shown in Table 7.833Case SG-M SG-F SG-N PLNOM der die das dieACC/DAT den die den dieTable 7: The Texas German definite article system.4.2 Production and Parsing TasksEach grammar is tested as to how efficiently it canproduce and parse utterances in terms of cognitiveeffort and search (see section 4.3).
There are threebasic types of utterances:1.
Ditransitive: NOM ?
Verb ?
DAT ?
ACC2.
Transitive (a): NOM ?
Verb ?
ACC3.
Transitive (b): NOM ?
Verb ?
DATThe argument roles are filled by noun phraseswhose head nouns always have a distinct formfor singular and plural (e.g.
Mann vs. M?n-ner; ?man?
vs.
?men?
), but that are unmarked forcase.
The combinations of arguments is alwaysunique along the dimensions of number and gen-der, which yields 216 unique utterance types forthe ditransitive as follows:(5)NOM.S.M V DAT.S.M ACC.S.MNOM.S.M V DAT.S.F ACC.S.MNOM.S.M V DAT.S.N ACC.S.MNOM.S.M V DAT.PL.M ACC.S.Metc.In transitive utterances, there is an additionaldistinction based on animacy for noun phrases inthe Object position of the utterance, which yields72 types in the NOM-ACC configuration and 72in the NOM-DAT configuration.
Together, thereare 360 unique utterance types.
As can be gleanedfrom the utterance types, the genitive case is notconsidered by the experiments, as the genitive isnot part of basic German argument structures andit has almost disappeared in most dialects of Ger-man (Shrier, 1965).In production, the grammar is presented with ameaning that needs to be verbalized into an utter-ance.
In parsing, the produced utterance has to beanalyzed back into a meaning.
Every utterance isprocessed using a full search, that is, all branchesand solutions are calculated.The experiments exploit types because thereare three different language systems, hence it isimpossible to use a single, real corpus and its to-ken frequencies.
It would also be unwarranted touse different corpora because corpus-specific bi-ases would distort the comparative results.
Sec-ondly, as the experiments involve models of deeplanguage processing (as opposed to stochasticmodels), the use of types instead of tokens isjustified in this phase of the research: the firstconcern of precision-grammars is descriptive ade-quacy, for which types are a more reliable source.Obviously, the effect of token frequency needs tobe examined in future research.4.3 Measuring Cognitive EffortThe experiments measure two kinds of cognitiveeffort: syntactic search and semantic ambiguity.Search.
The search measure counts the numberof branches in the search process that reach an endnode, which can either be a possible solution ora dead end (i.e.
no constructions can be appliedanymore).
Duplicate nodes (for instance, nodesthat use the same rules but in a different order)are not counted.
The search measure is then usedas a ?sanity check?
to verify whether the three dif-ferent paradigms can be processed with the sameefficiency in terms of search tree length, as hy-pothesized by this paper.
More specifically, thefollowing conditions have to be met:1.
In production, there should only be onebranch.2.
In parsing, search has to be equal to the se-mantic effort.The single branch constraint in productionchecks whether the definite articles are suffi-ciently distinct from one another.
Since there is noambiguity about which argument plays which rolein the utterance, the grammar should only comeup with one solution.
In parsing, the number ofbranches has to correspond to ?real?
semantic am-biguities and not create additional search, as ar-gued in section 2.2.Semantic Ambiguity.
Semantic ambiguityequals the number of possible interpretationsof an utterance.
For instance, the utteranceDer Hund bei?t den Mann ?the dog bites theman?
is unambiguous in Modern High German,834since der Hund can only be nominative singular-masculine, and den Mann can only be accusativemasculine-singular.
There is thus only one pos-sible interpretation in which the dog is the biterand the man is being bitten, illustrated as followsusing a logic-based meaning representation (alsosee Steels, 2004, for this operationalization ofcognitive effort):(6) Interpretation 1:Der Hund den Mann.bei?tbite(?ev)biter(?ev, ?x)bitten(?ev, ?y)dog(?a) man(?b)?a=?x?b=?yHowever, an utterance such as die Katze bei?tdie Frau ?the cat bites the woman?
is ambiguousbecause die has both a nominative and accusativesingular-feminine reading:(7) a.
Interpretation 1:Die Katze die Frau.bei?tbite(?ev)biter(?ev, ?x)bitten(?ev, ?y)cat(?a) woman(?b)?a=?x?b=?yb.
Interpretation 2:Die Katze die Frau.bei?tbite(?ev)biter(?ev, ?x)bitten(?ev, ?y)cat(?a) woman(?b)?a=?y?b=?xHere, German speakers are likely to use wordorder, intonation and world knowledge (i.e.
catsare more likely to bite a person than the other wayround) for disambiguating the utterance.4.4 Experimental ParametersThe experiments (E1-E4) concern the cue-reliability of the definite articles for disambiguat-ing event structure.
In all experiments, the differ-ent grammars can exploit the case-number-genderinformation of definite articles, and also the gen-der and number specifications of nouns, and thesyntactic valence of verbs.
For instance, thenoun form Frauen ?women?
is specified as plural-feminine, and verbs like helfen ?to help?
are spec-ified to take a dative object, whereas verbs likefinden ?to find?
take an accusative object.
In otherexperiments, different combinations of grammat-ical cues become available or not:Cue E1 E2 E3 E4SV-agreement + +Selection restrictions + +SV-agreement restricts the subject to singularor plural nouns, and semantic selection restric-tions can disambiguate utterances in which for ex-ample the Agent-role has to be animate (e.g.
inperception verbs such as sehen ?to see?).
All otherpossible cues, such as word order, are ignored.5 Results5.1 SearchIn all experiments, the constraints of the searchmeasure were satisfied: every grammar only re-quired one branch per utterance in production,and the number of branches in parsing never ex-ceeded the number of possible interpretations.
Interms of search length, more syncretism thereforedoes not automatically harm efficiency, providedthat the grammar uses an adequate representation.Arguably, the smaller paradigms are even moreefficient because they require less unifications tobe performed.5.2 Semantic AmbiguityNow that it has been ascertained that moresyncretism does not harm processing efficiency,we can compare cue-reliability of the differentparadigms for semantic interpretation.Ambiguous Utterances.
Figure 2 shows thenumber of ambiguous utterances in parsing (in %)per paradigm and per set-up.
As can be seen,the Old High German paradigm (black) is themost reliable cue in Experiment 1 (E1; when SV-agreement and selection restrictions are ignored)with 35.56% of ambiguous utterances, as opposedto 55.56% for Modern High German (grey) and77.78% for Texas German (white).When SV-agreement is taken into account (E2),the difference between Old and Modern HighGerman becomes smaller, with both paradigmsoffering a reliability of more than 70%, whileTexas German still faces more than 70% of am-biguous utterances.Ambiguity is even more reduced when usingsemantic selection restrictions of the verb (set-up835E3).
Here, the difference between Old and Mod-ern High German becomes trivial with 4.44% and6.94% of ambiguous utterances respectively.
Thedifference with Texas German remains apparent,even though its ambiguity is cut by half.In set-up E4 (case, SV-agreement and selectionrestrictions), the Old and Modern High Germanparadigms resolve almost all ambiguities, leavinglittle difference between them.
Using the TexasGerman dialect, one utterance out of five remainsambiguous and requires additional grammaticalcues or inferencing for semantic interpretation.Number of possible interpretations.
Semanticambiguity can also be measured by counting thenumber of possible interpretations per utterance.A non-ambiguous language would thus have 1possible interpretation per utterance.
The aver-age number of interpretations per utterance (perparadigm and per set-up) is shown in Table 8.Paradigm E1 E2 E3 E4Old High German 1.56 1.22 1.04 1.03Modern High German 1.56 1.28 1.07 1.04Texas German 2.84 2.39 1.36 1.22Table 8: Average number of interpretations per utter-ance type.The Old High German paradigm has the leastsemantic ambiguity throughout, except in Exper-iment 1 (E1).
Here, Modern High German hasthe same average effort despite having more am-biguous utterances.
This means that the Old HighGerman paradigm provides a better coverage interms of construction types, but when ambiguityoccurs, more possible interpretations exist.6 DiscussionThe experiments compare how well three differ-ent paradigms of definite articles perform if theyare inserted in the grammar of Modern High Ger-man.
The results show that, in isolation, Old HighGerman offers the best cue-reliability for retriev-ing who?s doing what to whom in events.
How-ever, when other grammatical cues are taken intoaccount, it turns out that Modern High Germanachieves similar results with respect to syntacticsearch and semantic ambiguity, with a reducedparadigm (using only six instead of twelve forms).As for the Texas German dialect, which hascollapsed the accusative-dative distinction, theamount of ambiguity remains more than 20% us-ing all available cues.
One verifiable predic-tion of the experiments is therefore that this di-alect should show an increase in alternative syn-tactic restrictions (such as word order) in orderto make up for the lost case distinctions.
Inter-estingly, such alternatives have been attested inLow German dialects that have evolved a simi-lar two-way case system (Shrier, 1965).
ModernHigh German, on the other hand, has already re-cruited word order for other purposes (such as in-formation structure; Lenerz, 1977; Micelli, 2012),which may explain why the current paradigm hasbeen able to survive since the Middle Ages.Instead of an accidental by-product of phono-logical and morphological changes, then, a newpicture emerges for explaining syncretism inModern High German definite articles: Germanspeakers have been able to reduce their caseparadigm without loss in processing and interpre-tation efficiency.
With cognitive effort as a selec-tion criterion, subsequent generations of speakersfound no linguistic pressures for maintaining par-ticular distinctions such as gender in plural arti-cles.
Especially forms whose acoustic distinctionsare harder to perceive are candidates for collapseif they are no longer functional for processing orinterpretation.
Other factors, such as frequency,may accelerate this evolution, as also argued byBar?dal (2009).
For instance, there may be lessbenefits for upholding a case distinction for infre-quent than for frequent forms.If case syncretism is not randomly distributedover a grammatical paradigm, but rather func-tionally motivated, a new explanatory model isneeded.
One candidate is evolutionary linguistics(Steels, 2012b), a framework of cultural evolu-tion in which populations of language users con-stantly shape and reshape their language in re-sponse to their communicative needs.
The ex-periments reported here suggest that this dynamicshaping process is guided by the ?linguistic land-scape?
of a language.
For instance, the pres-ence of grammatical cues such as gender, num-ber and SV-agreement may encourage paradigmreduction.
However, reduction may be the startof a self-enforcing loop in which the decreasingcue-reliability of a paradigm may pressure lan-guage users into enforcing the alternatives to takeon even more of the cognitive load of processing.The intricate interactions between grammati-83635.56?22.22?4.44?
2.78?55.56?28.89?6.94?
3.61?77.78?71.11?35.56?22.22?0?10?20?30?40?50?60?70?80?90?100?E1?
E2?
E3?
E4?%?of?ambiguous?u?erances?Old?High?German?
Modern?High?German?
Texas?German?Figure 2: This chart shows the number of ambiguous utterances per paradigm per E(xperimental set-up) in %.cal systems also requires more sophisticated mea-sures.
A promising extension of this paper couldlie in an information-theoretic approach to lan-guage (Hale, 2003; Jaeger and Tily, 2011), whichhas recently explored a set of tools for assessinglinguistic complexity, processing effort and un-certainty.
Unfortunately, only little work has beendone on morphological paradigms so far (see e.g.Ackerman et al 2011), and the approach is typi-cally applied in stochastic or Probabilistic ContextFree Grammars, hence it remains unclear how theassumptions of this field fit into models of deeplanguage processing.7 ConclusionsMore than 130 years after Mark Twain?s com-plaints, it seems that the German language is notthat awful after all.
Through a series of compu-tational experiments, this paper has proposed adifferent explanation for German case syncretismthat answers some of the unsolved riddles of pre-vious studies.
First, the experiments have shownthat an increase in syncretism does not necessar-ily lead to an increase in the cognitive effort re-quired for syntactic search, provided that the rep-resentation of the grammar is processing-friendly.Secondly, by comparing cue-reliability of differ-ent paradigms for semantic disambiguation, theexperiments have demonstrated that Modern HighGerman achieves a similar performance as its OldHigh German predecessor using only half of theforms in its definite article paradigm.Instead of a series of historical accidents, theGerman case system thus underwent a systematicand ?performance-driven [...] morphological re-structuring?
(Hawkins, 2004, p. 79), in which lin-guistic pressures such as cognitive effort decidedon the maintenance or loss of certain distinctions.The case study makes clear that formal and com-putational models of deep language understand-ing have to reconsider their strict division betweencompetence and performance if the goal is to ex-plain individual language development.
This pa-per proposed that new tools and methodologiesshould be sought in evolutionary linguistics.AcknowledgementsThis research has been conducted at the SonyComputer Science Laboratory Paris.
I would liketo thank Luc Steels, director of Sony CSL Parisand the VUB AI-Lab of the University of Brus-sels, for his support and feedback.
I also thankHans Boas, J?hanna Bar?dal, Peter Hanappe,Manfred Hild and the anonymous reviewers forhelping to improve this article.
All errors remainof course my own.837ReferencesFarrell Ackerman, James P. Blevins, and RobertMalouf.
Parts and wholes: Implicative patternsin inflectional paradigms.
In J.P. Blevins andJ.
Blevins, editors, Analogy in Grammar: Formand Acquisition, pages 54?81.
Oxford Univer-sity Press, Oxford, 2011.Matthew Baerman.
Case syncretism.
In An-drej Malchukov and Andrew Spencer, editors,The Oxford Handbook of Case, chapter 14,pages 219?230.
Oxford University Press, Ox-ford, 2009.J.
Bar?dal.
The development of case in germanic.In J.
Bar?dal and S. Chelliah, editors, The Roleof Semantics and Pragmatics in the Develop-ment of Case, pages 123?159.
John Benjamins,Amsterdam, 2009.Manfred Bierwisch.
Syntactic features inmorphology: General problems of so-calledpronominal inflection in German.
In To Hon-our Roman Jakobson, pages 239?270.
MoutonDe Gruyter, Berlin, 1967.James Blevins.
Syncretism and paradigmatic op-position.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 18:113?152, 1995.Joris Bleys, Kevin Stadler, and Joachim De Beule.Search in linguistic processing.
In Luc Steels,editor, Design Patterns in Fluid ConstructionGrammar.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam, 2011.Hans C. Boas.
Case loss in Texas German: Theinfluence of semantic and pragmatic factors.
InJ.
Bar?dal and S. Chelliah, editors, The Role ofSemantics and Pragmatics in the Developmentof Case, pages 347?373.
John Benjamins, Am-sterdam, 2009a.Hans C. Boas.
The Life and Death of TexasGerman, volume 93 of Publication of the TheAmerican Dialect Society.
Duke UniversityPress, Durham, 2009b.David Carter.
Efficient disjunctive unificationfor bottom-up parsing.
In Proceedings of the13th Conference on Computational Linguistics,pages 70?75.
ACL, 1990.Ann Copestake.
Implementing Typed FeatureStructure Grammars.
CSLI Publications, Stan-ford, 2002.Berthold Crysmann.
Syncretism in german: Aunified approach to underspecification, indeter-minacy, and likeness of case.
In Stefan M?ller,editor, Proceedings of the 12th InternationalConference on Head-Driven Phrase StructureGrammar, pages 91?107, Stanford, 2005.
CSLIPublications.Mary Dalrymple, Tracy Holloway King, andLouisa Sadler.
Indeterminacy by underspecifi-cation.
Journal of Linguistics, 45:31?68, 2009.Michael Daniels.
On a type-based analysis of fea-ture neutrality and the coordination of unlikes.In Proceedings of the 8th International Confer-ence on HPSG, pages 137?147, Stanford, 2001.CSLI.Joachim De Beule.
A formal deconstruction ofFluid Construction Grammar.
In Luc Steels, ed-itor, Computational Issues in Fluid Construc-tion Grammar.
Springer Verlag, Berlin, 2012.Daniel P. Flickinger.
On building a more efficientgrammar by exploiting types.
Natural Lan-guage Engineering, 6(1):15?28, 2000.Jonathan Ginzburg and Ivan A.
Sag.
Interroga-tive Investigations: the Form, the Meaning, andUse of English Interrogatives.
CSLI Publica-tions, Stanford, 2000.Adele E. Goldberg.
Constructions At Work: TheNature of Generalization in Language.
OxfordUniversity Press, Oxford, 2006.John T. Hale.
The information conveyed by wordsin sentences.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Re-search, 32(2):101?123, 2003.John A. Hawkins.
Efficiency and Complexity inGrammars.
Oxford University Press, Oxford,2004.Bernd Heine and Tania Kuteva.
Language Con-tact and Grammatical Change.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, 2005.Wolfgang Heinz and Johannes Matiasek.
Argu-ment structure and case assignment in german.In John Nerbonne, Klaus Netter, and Carl Pol-lard, editors, German in Head-Driven PhraseStructure Grammar, volume 46 of CSLI Lec-ture Notes, pages 199?236.
CSLI Publications,Stanford, 1994.R.J.P.
Ingria.
The limits of unification.
In Pro-ceedings of the 28th Annual Meeting of theACL, pages 194?204, 1990.T.
Florian Jaeger and Harry Tily.
On language?utility?
: Processing complexity and commu-838nicative efficiency.
WIREs: Cognitive Science,2(3):323?335, 2011.L.
Karttunen.
Features and values.
In Proceedingsof the 10th International Conference on Com-putational Linguistics, Stanford, 1984.J?rgen Lenerz.
Zur Abfolge nominalerSatzglieder im Deutschen.
Narr, T?bin-gen, 1977.Martin Loetzsch.
Tools for grammar engineering.In Luc Steels, editor, Computational Issues inFluid Construction Grammar.
Springer Verlag,Berlin, 2012.Vanessa Micelli.
Field topology and informationstructure: A case study for German constituentorder.
In Luc Steels, editor, Computational Is-sues in Fluid Construction Grammar.
SpringerVerlag, Berlin, 2012.Gereon M?ller.
Remarks on nominal inflectionin German.
In Ingrid Kaufmann and Bar-bara Stiebels, editors, More than Words: AFestschrift for Dieter Wunderlich, pages 113?145.
Akademie Verlag, Berlin, 2002.Stefan M?ller.
An HPSG-analysis for free rela-tive clauses in german.
Grammars, 2(1):53?105, 1999.Stefan M?ller.
Case in German ?
towards andHPSG analysis.
In Tibor Kiss and Det-mar Meurers, editors, Constraint-Based Ap-proaches to Germanic Syntax.
CSLI, Stanford,2001.Allan Ramsay.
Disjunction without tears.
Com-putational Linguistics, 16(3):171?174, 1990.Ivan A.
Sag.
Coordination and underspecifica-tion.
In Jongbok Kom and Stephen Wechsler,editors, Proceedings of the Ninth InternationalConference on HPSG, Stanford, 2003.
CSLI.Ivan A.
Sag and Thomas Wasow.
Performance-compatible competence grammar.
In Robert D.Borsley and Kersti B?rjars, editors, Non-Transformational Syntax: Formal and ExplicitModels of Grammar.
Wiley-Blackwell, Ox-ford, 2011.Martha Shrier.
Case systems in German dialects.Language, 41(3):420?438, 1965.Luc Steels.
Constructivist development ofgrounded construction grammars.
In WalterDaelemans, editor, Proceedings 42nd AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 9?19, Barcelona, 2004.Luc Steels, editor.
Design Patterns in Fluid Con-struction Grammar.
John Benjamins, Amster-dam, 2011.Luc Steels, editor.
Computational Issues inFluid Construction Grammar.
Springer, Berlin,2012a.Luc Steels.
Self-organization and selection in cul-tural language evolution.
In Luc Steels, editor,Experiments in Cultural Language Evolution.John Benjamins, Amsterdam, 2012b.Luc Steels and Joachim De Beule.
Unify andmerge in Fluid Construction Grammar.
InP.
Vogt, Y. Sugita, E. Tuci, and C. Nehaniv,editors, Symbol Grounding and Beyond., LNAI4211, pages 197?223, Berlin, 2006.
Springer.Remi van Trijp.
Feature matrices and agreement:A case study for German case.
In Luc Steels,editor, Design Patterns in Fluid ConstructionGrammar.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam, 2011.M.
Walshe.
A Middle High German Reader: WithGrammar, Notes and Glossary.
Oxford Univer-sity Press, Oxford, 1974.Bernd Wiese.
Iconicity and syncretism.
onpronominal inflection in Modern German.
InRobin Sckmann, editor, Theoretical Linguisticsand Grammatical Description, pages 323?344.John Benjamins, Amsterdam, 1996.Joseph Wright.
An Old High German Primer.Clarendon Press, Oxford, 2nd edition, 1906.Dieter Wunderlich.
Der unterspezifizierte Artikel.In Karl Heinz Ramers D?rscheid and MonikaSchwarz, editors, Sprache im Fokus, pages 47?55.
Niemeyer, T?bingen, 1997.839
