Proceedings of the Demonstrations at the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 49?52,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Lightweight Terminology Verification Service for External MachineTranslation EnginesAlessio Bosca?, Vassilina Nikoulina?, Marc Dymetman?
?CELI, Turin, Italy?Xerox Research Centre Europe, Grenoble, France?alessio.bosca@celi.it,?
{first.last}@xrce.xerox.comAbstractWe propose a demonstration of a domain-specific terminology checking servicewhich works on top of any generic black-box MT, and only requires access to abilingual terminology resource in the do-main.
In cases where an incorrect trans-lation of a source term was proposed bythe generic MT service, our service locatesthe wrong translation of the term in the tar-get and suggests a terminologically correcttranslation for this term.1 IntroductionToday there exist generic MT services for a largenumber of language pairs, which allow relativelyeasily to make your domain-specific portal mul-tilingual, and allow access to its documents for abroad international public.
However, applying ageneric MT service to domain-specific texts oftenleads to wrong results, especially relative to thetranslation of domain-specific terminology.
Table1 illustrates an example of a terminology inconsis-tent translation provided by a generic MT system.English Source: Farmers tend to implement abroad non-focused weed-control strategy, onthe basis of broad spectrum products and mix-tures of different products.Bing1: Los agricultores tienden a aplicar unaestrategia amplia para control de malezas nocentrado, sobre la base de productos de am-plio espectro y las mezclas de diferentes pro-ductos.Table 1: Example of the translation produced bya generic MT model for a domain-specific docu-ment.
Source term : weed-control, official Span-ish term translation: control de malas hierbas.The importance of domain-specific terminologyfor Machine Translation has been mentioned inseveral previous works (eg.
(Carl and Langlais,2002; Skadins et al., 2013)).
However, most ofthese works handle the case where the terminologyis tightly integrated into the translation process.This requires both a good expertise in SMT anda large amount of both in-domain and generic par-allel texts, which is often difficult, especially forlow-resourced languages like Turkish or Estonian.Here, we are targeting the situation where the con-tent provider is not willing to train a dedicatedtranslation system, for some reason such as lack oftechnical skills or lack of necessary resources (par-allel data or computational resources), but has athis disposal a multilingual in-domain terminologywhich could be helpful for improving the generictranslation provided by an external translation ser-vice.
We propose a demonstration of a multilin-gual terminology verification/correction service,which detects the wrongly translated terms andsuggests a better translation of these terms.
Thisservice can be seen as an aid for machine transla-tion post-editing focused on in-domain terminol-ogy and as a tool for supporting the workflow ofpracticing translators.2 Related WorkThere has recently been a growing interest for ter-minology integration into MT models.
Direct in-tegration of terminology into the SMT model hasbeen considered, either by extending SMT train-ing data (Carl and Langlais, 2002), or via addingan additional term indicator feature (Pinnis andSkadins, 2012; Skadins et al., 2013) into the trans-lation model.
However none of the above is possi-ble when we deal with an external black-box MTservice.
(Itagaki and Aikawa, 2008) propose a post-processing step for an MT engine, where awrongly translated term is replaced with a user-provided term translation.
The authors claim thattranslating the term directly often gives a different49translation from the one obtained when translatingthe term in context: for English-Japanese the out-of-context term translation matches exactly the incontext term translation in 62% of cases only.
Inorder to address this problem the authors propose15 simple context templates that induce the sameterm translation as the one obtained in the initialsentence context.
Such templates include ?Thisis TERM?
or ?TERM is a ...?.
The main prob-lem with this approach is that these templates areboth language-pair and MT engine/model specific.Thus a certain human expertise is required to de-velop such templates when moving to a new lan-guage pair or underlying MT engine.Our approach is close to the (Itagaki andAikawa, 2008) approach, but instead of devel-oping specific templates we propose a genericmethod for wrong terminology translation detec-tion.
We do not aim at producing the final trans-lation by directly replacing the wrongly translatedterm ?
which can be tricky?, but rather performthe term correction in an interactive manner, wherethe user is proposed a better term translation andmay choose to use it if the suggestion is correct.3 Terminology-checking serviceWe assume that the provider of the terminology-checking service has a bilingual domain-specificterminology D at his disposal, which he wishesto use to improve the translation produced by ageneric MT service MT .
Our method verifieswhether the terminology was translated correctlyby the MT service (terminology verification), andif not, locates the wrong translation of the term andsuggests a better translation for it.3.1 Terminology checkingThe basic terminology verification procedure ap-plied to the source sentence s and to its translationMT (s) by the generic service is done through thefollowing steps:1.
For each term T = (Ts, Tt) in D checkwhether its source part Tsis present in thesource sentence s.2.
If s contains Ts, check whether the targetpart of the term Ttis present in the transla-tion MT (s).
If yes, and the number of oc-currences of Tsin s is equal to that of Ttin MT (s) : the term translation is consis-tent with terminological base.
Otherwise, weattempt to locate the wrong term translationand suggest a better translation to the user.Both steps require a sub-string matching algo-rithm which is able to deal with term detectionproblems such as morphological variants or dif-ferent term variants.
We describe the approach wetake for efficient sub-string matching in more de-tail in section 3.3.3.2 Terminology correctionOnce we have detected that there is a source termTswhich has been incorrectly translated we wouldlike to suggest a better translation for this term.This requires not only knowing a correct transla-tion Ttof the source term Ts, but also its positionin the target sentence.
To do that, we need to iden-tify what was the incorrect translation proposed bythe MT engine for the term and to locate it in thetranslation MT (s).This can be seen as a sub-problem of the word-alignment problem, which is usually solved us-ing bilingual dictionaries or by learning statisticalalignment models out of bilingual corpora.
How-ever, in practice, these resources are not easilyavailable, especially for low-resourced languagepairs.
In order to be able to locate the wrong termtranslation in the target sentence without resort-ing to such resources, our approach is to rely in-stead on the same external MT engine that wasused for translating the whole source sentence inthe first place, an approach also taken in (Itagakiand Aikawa, 2008).To overcome the problem mentioned by (Ita-gaki and Aikawa, 2008) of non-matching out-of-context terms translations we propose to com-bine out-of context term translation (MT (Ts)) andcontext-extended term translation, as follows:?
Translate the term Tsextended withits left and/or right n-gram context:si?nsi?n+1...Ts...sj+n?1sj+n, whereTs= si...sj;?
Find a fuzzy match in MT (s) for thetranslation of the context-extended termMT (si?n...Ts...sj+n) using the same sub-string matching algorithm as in the terminol-ogy verification step.Various combinations of out-of-context termtranslation (MT (Ts)) and n-extended term trans-lation (MT (si?n...Ts...sj+n)) are possible.50The term location is performed in a sequentialway: if the wrong term translation was not locatedafter the first step (out-of-context translation), at-tempt the following step, extending size of thecontext (n) until the term is located.3.3 ImplementationThe implementation of the terminology-checkingservice that we demonstrate exploits Bing Trans-lator2as SMT service, refers to the Agricul-ture domain and supports two terminology re-sources: the multilingual ontology from the Or-ganic.Edunet portal3and Agrovoc, a multilingualtheasurus from FAO4.
The presented prototype en-ables terminology checking for all the languagepairs involving English, French, German, Italian,Portoguese, Spanish and Turkish.The component for matching the textual input(i.e.
either the source or the translation from theSMT service) with elements from domain termi-nologies is based on the open source search engineLucene5and exploits its built-in textual search ca-pabilities and indexing facilities.
We created asearch index for each of the supported languages,containing the textual representations of the ter-minology elements in that language along withtheir URI (unique for each terminology element).The terms expressions are indexed in their origi-nal form as well as in their lemmatized and POStagged ones; for Turkish, resources for morpho-logical analysis were not available therefore stem-ming has been used instead of lemmatization.In order to find the terminological entries withina textual input in a given language a two-steps pro-cedure is applied:?
In a first step, the text is used as a query overthe search index (in that language) in orderto find a list of all the terminology elementscontaining a textual fragment present in thequery.?
In a second step, in order to retain only thedomain terms with a complete match (no par-tial matches) and locate them in the text, anew search index is built in memory, con-taining a single document, namely the orig-inal textual input (lemmatized or stemmedaccording to the resources available for that2http://www.bing.com/translator3http://organic-edunet.eu/4http://aims.fao.org/standards/agrovoc/about5https://lucene.apache.orgspecific language).
Then the candidate ter-minology elements found in the first step areused as queries over the in-memory index andthe ?highlighter?
component of the search en-gine is exploited to locate them in the text(when found).
A longest match criterion isused when the terminology elements foundrefer to overlapping spans of text.Following this procedure a list with terminologyelements (along with their URIs and the positionwithin the text) is generated for both the sourcetext and its translation.
A matching strategy basedon the URI allows to pair domain terms from thetwo collections.
For domain terms in the sourcetext without a corresponding terminology elementin the translated text, the ?wrong?
translation islocated in the text according to the approach de-scribed in 3.2.
The domain term is retranslatedwith the same SMT (with context extension, ifneeded) in order to obtain the ?wrong?
translationand the translated string is located within the trans-lation text with the same approach used in the sec-ond step of the procedure used for locating termi-nological entries (with an in-memory search indexover the full text and the fragment used as query).The service outputs two lists: one containingthe pairs of terminology elements found both inthe source and in the translation and another onewith the terminology elements without a ?correct?translation (according to the domain terminologyused) and for each of those an alternative transla-tion from the domain terminology is proposed.
Inour demonstration a web interface allows users toaccess and test the service.4 Proof of concept evaluationIn order to evaluate the quality of locating thewrong term translation, we applied the terminol-ogy verification service to an SMT model trainedwith Moses (Hoang et al., 2007) on the Europarl(Koehn, 2005) corpus.
This SMT model was usedfor translating a test set in the Agricultural domainfrom Spanish into English.
In these settings wehave access to the internal sub-phrase alignmentprovided by Moses, thus we know the exact loca-tion of the wrong term translation, which allowsus to evaluate how good our locating technique is.The test set consists of 100 abstracts in Spanishfrom a bibliographical database of scientific publi-cations in the Agriculture domain.
These abstractswere translated into English with our translation51model, and we then applied terminology verifi-cation and terminology correction procedures tothese translations.When applying terminology verification we de-tected in total 171 terms in Spanish, 71 of thembeing correctly translated into English (consistentwith terminology), and 100 being wrongly trans-lated (not consistent with terminology).We then attempted to locate these wronglytranslated terms in the system translation MT (s).Matching the out-of-context term translationwith initial translation allowed to find a match for82 wrongly translated terms (out of 100); Match-ing 1 left/right word extended term translation(MT (wi?1Tswj+1)) allowed to find a match for16 more terms (out of 18 left).Using the internal word alignments provided byMoses, we also evaluated how precisely the bor-ders of the wrongly translated term were recoveredby our term location procedure.
This precision ismeasured as follows:?
The target tokens identified by our procedure(as described in 3) are: gT= t1, .
.
.
, tj;?
We then identify the reference target tokenscorresponding to the translation of the termTsusing the Moses word alignment : rT={rt1, .
.
.
, rtk}.We define term location precision p as p =|tj?rT?gT||gT|.
The precision of term location without-of-context term translation is of 0.92; the pre-cision of term location with context-extended termtranslation is 0.91.Overall, our approach allows to match 98% ofthe wrongly translated terms, with an overall lo-cation precision of 0.91.
Although these numbersmay vary for other language pairs and other MTsystems, this performance is encouraging.5 ConclusionWe propose a demonstration of a terminology ver-ification system that can be used as an aid for post-editing machine translations explicitly focused onbilingual terminology consistency.
This system re-lies on an external black-box generic MT engineextended with available domain-specific terminol-ogy.
The location of the wrong term translation islocated via re-translation of the original term withthe same MT engine.
We show that we partiallyovercome the situation where the out-of-contexttranslation of the term differs from the originaltranslation of this term (in the full sentence) byextending the term context with surrounding n-grams.
The terminology verification method isboth MT engine and language independent, doesnot require any access to the internals of the MTengine used, and is easily portable.AcknowledgmentsThis work has been partially supported bythe Organic.Lingua project (http://www.organic-lingua.eu/), funded by the European Commissionunder the ICT Policy Support Programme.ReferencesMichael Carl and Philippe Langlais.
2002.
An intel-ligent terminology database as a pre-processor forstatistical machine translation.
In COLING-02: Sec-ond International Workshop on Computational Ter-minology, pages 1?7.Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, Chris Callison-burch,Richard Zens, Rwth Aachen, Alexandra Constantin,Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi, Chris Dyer,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran, andOndej Bojar.
2007.
Moses: Open source toolkit forstatistical machine translation.
In ACL 2007 Demoand Poster Sessions, pages 177?180.Masaki Itagaki and Takako Aikawa.
2008.
Post-mtterm swapper: Supplementing a statistical machinetranslation system with a user dictionary.
In LREC.Philipp Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A Parallel Corpus forStatistical Machine Translation.
In MT Summit X,pages 79?86, Phuket Thailand.Marcis Pinnis and Raivis Skadins.
2012.
Mt adapta-tion for under-resourced domains - what works andwhat not.
In Baltic HLT, volume 247, pages 176?184.Raivis Skadins, Marcis Pinnis, Tatiana Gornostay, andAndrejs Vasiljevs.
2013.
Application of online ter-minology services in statistical machine translation.In MT Summit XIV, pages 281?286.52
