Proceedings of the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 33?37,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Vague Sense Classifier for Detecting Vague Definitions in OntologiesPanos AlexopoulosiSOCO S.A.Madrid, Spainpalexopoulos@isoco.comJohn PavlopoulosDepartment of Informatics,Athens University of Economics and BusinessAthens, Greeceannis@aueb.grAbstractVagueness is a common human knowl-edge and linguistic phenomenon, typi-cally manifested by predicates that lackclear applicability conditions and bound-aries such as High, Expert or Bad.
In thecontext of ontologies and semantic data,the usage of such predicates within ontol-ogy element definitions (classes, relationsetc.)
can hamper the latter?s quality, pri-marily in terms of shareability and mean-ing explicitness.
With that in mind, wepresent in this paper a vague word senseclassifier that may help both ontology cre-ators and consumers to automatically de-tect vague ontology definitions and, thus,assess their quality better.1 IntroductionVagueness is a common human knowledge andlanguage phenomenon, typically manifested byterms and concepts like High, Expert, Bad, Nearetc., and related to our inability to precisely de-termine the extensions of such concepts in certaindomains and contexts.
That is because vague con-cepts have typically blurred boundaries which donot allow for a sharp distinction between the enti-ties that fall within their extension and those thatdo not (Hyde, 2008) (Shapiro, 2006).
For exam-ple, some people are borderline tall: not clearly?tall?
and not clearly ?not tall?.Ontologies, in turn, are formal shareable con-ceptualizations of domains, describing the mean-ing of domain aspects in a common, machine-processable form by means of concepts andtheir interrelations (Chandrasekaran et al., JanuaryFebruary 1999).
As such, they are widely usedfor the production and sharing of structured dataand knowledge that can be commonly understoodamong human and software agents.When building ontologies and semantic data,engineers and domain experts often use predi-cates that are vague.
While this is not alwaysan intentional act, the use of such predicates in-fluences in a negative way the comprehension ofthis data by other parties and limits their value asa reusable source of knowledge (Alexopoulos etal., 2013).
The reason is the subjective interpreta-tion of vague definitions that can cause disagree-ments among the people who develop, maintain oruse a vague ontology.
In fact, as shown in (Alex-opoulos et al., 2013), vagueness in ontologies canbe a source of problems in scenarios involving i)structuring data with a vague ontology (where dis-agreements among experts on the validity of vaguestatements may occur), ii) utilizing vague facts inontology-based systems (where reasoning resultsmight not meet users?
expectations) and iii) in-tegrating vague semantic information (where themerging of particular vague elements can lead todata that will not be valid for all its users).In this context, our goal in this paper is to en-able ontology producers (engineers and domainexperts) as well as consumers (i.e., practitionerswho want to reuse ontologies and semantic data) todetect, in an automatic way, ontology element def-initions that are potentially vague.
Such a detec-tion will help ontology creators build more com-prehensible and shareable ontologies (by refining,eliminating or just documenting vague definitions)and consumers assess, in an easier way, their us-ability and quality before deciding to use it.Our approach towards such a detection involvestraining a classifier that may distinguish betweenvague and non-vague term word senses and usingit to determine whether a given ontology elementdefinition is vague or not.
For example, the def-inition of the ontology class ?StrategicClient?
as?A client that has a high value for the company?is (and should be) characterized as vague whilethe definition of ?AmericanCompany?
as ?A com-33pany that has legal status in the Unites States?
isnot.
The classifier is trained in a supervised way,using vague and non-vague sense examples, care-fully constructed from WordNet.The structure of the rest of the paper is as fol-lows.
In the next section we briefly present relatedwork while in section 3 we describe in detail ourvague sense classifier, including the training datawe used and the evaluation we performed.
Sec-tion 4 describes the results of applying the classi-fier in an a publicly available ontology, illustratingits usefulness as an ontology evaluation tool.
Fi-nally, section 5 summarizes our work and outlinesits future directions.2 Related WorkThe phenomenon of vagueness in human languageand knowledge has been studied from a logicand philosophical point of view in a number ofworks (Hyde, 2008) (Shapiro, 2006) and differ-ent theories and paradigms have been proposedto accommodate it, including supervaluationism(Keefe, 2008), many-valued logic and fuzzy logic(Klir and Yuan, 1995).
Moreover, in the contextof ontologies, one may find several works focus-ing on acquisition, conceptualization and repre-sentation of vague knowledge, mainly following afuzzy logic based approach (Bobillo and Straccia,2011) (Stoilos et al., 2008) (Abulaish, 2009).
Nev-ertheless all these approaches rely on manual iden-tification and analysis of vague terms and conceptsby domain experts and, to the best of our knowl-edge, no work attempts to automate this task.Another set of related work consists of ap-proaches for subjectivity and polarity labeling ofword senses (Wiebe and Riloff, 2005) (Wiebeand Mihalcea, 2006) (Wilson et al., 2005) (Suand Markert, 2008) (Esuli and Sebastiani, 2006)(Akkaya et al., 2011).
While vagueness is relatedto both phenomena (as polarized words are oftenvague and vague words are typically subjective),it is not exactly the same as these (e.g., subjectivestatements do not always involve vagueness) and,thus, requires specialized treatment.
To illustratethat, we compare in subsequent sections our vaguesense classifier with the subjective sense classifierof (Wilson et al., 2005), showing that the formerperforms significantly better than the latter.3 Supervised Classification for VagueTerm Detection3.1 DataWe created a dataset of 2,000 adjective senses, col-lected from WordNet, such that 1,000 of themhad a vague definition and the the rest a non vaguedefinition.
A sample of these senses is shown inTable 1 while the whole dataset, which to the bestof our knowledge is the first of its kind, is publiclyavailable for further research1.The dataset was constructed by an ontology ex-pert.
As the task of classifying a text as vague ornot can be quite subjective, we asked from twoother human judges to annotate a subset of thedataset?s definitions (100), and we measured inter-annotator agreement between all three.
We foundmean pairwise JPA (Joint Probability of Agree-ment) equal to 0.81 and mean pairwise K (Co-hen?s Kappa) equal to 0.64, both of which indicatea reasonable agreement.Figure 1: Train and test error rate, per number oftraining instances.3.2 Training and EvaluationWe used the first 80% of the data (i.e., 800 vagueand 800 non vague instances) to train a multino-mial Naive Bayes classifier.2We removed stopwords and we used the bag of words assumptionto represent each instance.3The remaining 20%of the data (i.e., 200 vague and 200 non vagueinstances) was used as a test set.
Accuracy wasfound to be 84%, which is considerably high.
InFigure 1, is shown the error rate on the test andtrain data, as we increase the number of traininginstances.
We see that the two curves, initially,1http://glocal.isoco.net/datasets/VagueSynsets.zip2We used the implementation of Scikit-Learn found athttp://scikit-learn.org/stable/.3We used the list of stopwords provided by Scikit-Learn.34Vague Adjectives Non Vague AdjectivesAbnormal: not normal, not typical or usual orregular or conforming to a normCompound: composed of more than one partImpenitent: impervious to moral persuasion Biweekly: occurring every two weeksNotorious: known widely and usually unfavor-ablyIrregular: falling below the manufacturer?sstandardAroused: emotionally aroused Outermost: situated at the farthest possiblepoint from a centerYellowish: of the color intermediate betweengreen and orange in the color spectrum, ofsomething resembling the color of an egg yolkUnfeathered: having no feathersTable 1: Sample Vague and Non-Vague Adjective SensesFigure 2: Accuracy on the test data, per number ofselected features.have a big gap between them, but this is progres-sively reduced.
However, more (or more compli-cated) features could be beneficial; we intend tostudy this further in the future.We also examined the hypothesis of the exis-tence of a small set of words that are often foundin vague definitions, but not in definitions whichare not vague, as then it would be very easy fora system to use these words and discriminate be-tween the two classes.
To do this, we performedfeature selection with the chi-squared statistic forvarious number of features and computed the ac-curacy (i.e., one minus the error rate).
As we showin Figure 2, accuracy for only 5 selected featuresis 50%, which is the same as if we selected classin random.
However, by increasing the number ofselected features, accuracy increases significantly.This shows that there is not a subset of wordswhich could be used to discriminate between thetwo classes; by contrast, most of the words playtheir role.
Again, this is something to be furtherstudied in future research.Finally, in order to verify our intuition thatvagueness is not the same phenomenon as subjec-tiveness (as we suggested in section 2), we usedthe subjective sense classifier of (Wilson et al.,2005) to classify the data of section 3.1 as subjec-tive or objective, assuming that vague senses aresubjective while non-vague ones objective.
Theparticular classifier is part of the OpinionFinder4system and the results of its application in the 2000adjective senses of our dataset were as follows.From the 1000 vague senses, only 167 were classi-fied as subjective while from the 1000 non-vagueones 993.
These numbers do no reflect of coursethe quality of OpinionFinder as a subjectivity de-tection system, they merely illustrate the fact thattreating vagueness in the same way as subjective-ness is not really effective and, thus, more dedi-cated, vagueness-specific work is needed.4 Use Case: Detecting Vagueness inCiTO OntologyTo evaluate the effectiveness and potential of ourclassifier for detecting vague ontological defini-tions, we considered a publicly available ontologycalled CiTO5.
CiTO is an ontology that enablescharacterization of the nature or type of citationsand consists primarily of relations, many of whichare vague (e.g.
the relation cito:plagiarizes).
Inorder to compare the experts?
vague/non-vagueclassification with the output of our system, weworked as follows.
We selected 44 relations fromCiTO (making sure to avoid duplications by e.g.avoiding having both a relation and its inverse) andwe had again 3 human judges manually classifythem as vague or not.
In the end we got 27 vague4http://mpqa.cs.pitt.edu/opinionfinder/5http://purl.org/spar/cito/35Vague Relations Non Vague Relationsplagiarizes: A property indicating that the au-thor of the citing entity plagiarizes the citedentity, by including textual or other elementsfrom the cited entity without formal acknowl-edgement of their source.sharesAuthorInstitutionWith: Each entity hasat least one author that shares a common insti-tutional affiliation with an author of the otherentity.citesAsAuthority: The citing entity cites thecited entity as one that provides an authorita-tive description or definition of the subject un-der discussion.providesDataFor: The cited entity presentsdata that are used in work described in the cit-ing entity.speculatesOn: The citing entity speculates onsomething within or related to the cited entity,without firm evidence.retracts: The citing entity constitutes a formalretraction of the cited entity.supports: The citing entity provides intellec-tual or factual support for statements, ideas orconclusions presented in the cited entity.includesExcerptFrom: The citing entity in-cludes one or more excerpts from the cited en-tity.refutes: The citing entity refutes statements,ideas or conclusions presented in the cited en-tity.citesAsSourceDocument: The citing entitycites the cited entity as being the entity fromwhich the citing entity is derived, or aboutwhich the citing entity contains metadata.Table 2: Sample Vague and Non-Vague Relations in CiTOrelations and 17 non-vague, a sample of which isshown in Table 2.Then we applied the trained vagueness classifierof the previous section on the textual definitions ofthe relations.
The results of this were highly en-couraging; 36/44 (82%) relations were correctlyclassified as vague/non-vague with 74% accuracyfor vague relations and 94% for non-vague ones.Again, for completeness, we classified the samerelations with OpinionFinder (as in the previoussection), in order to check if subjectivity classifi-cation is applicable for vagueness.
The results ofthis were consistent to the ones reported in the pre-vious section with the Wordnet data: 18/44 (40%)overall correctly classified relations with 94% ac-curacy for non-vague relations but only 7% forvague ones.5 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper we considered the problem of auto-matically detecting vague definitions in ontologiesand we developed a vague word sense classifierusing training data from Wordnet.
Experimentswith both Wordnet word senses and real ontol-ogy definitions, showed a considerably high accu-racy of our system, thus verifying our intuition thatvague and non-vague senses can be separable.
Wedo understand that vagueness is a quite complexphenomenon and the approach we have followedin this paper rather simple.
Yet, exactly becauseof its simplicity, we believe that it can be a verygood baseline for further research in this particu-lar area.
The vague/non-vague sense dataset weprovide will be also very useful for that purpose.Our future work comprises two main directions.On the one hand, as we mentioned in the introduc-tion, we intend to incorporate the current classifierinto an ontology analysis tool that will help ontol-ogy engineers and users detect vague definitions inontologies and thus assess their quality better.
Onthe other hand, we want to further study the phe-nomenon of vagueness as manifested in textual in-formation, improve our classifer and see whetherit is possible to build a vague sense lexicon, similarto lexicons that have already been built for subjec-tivity and sentiment analysis.AcknowledgmentsThe research leading to this results has receivedfunding from the People Programme (Marie CurieActions) of the European Union?s 7th Frame-work Programme P7/2007-2013 under REA grantagreement no286348.36ReferencesM.
Abulaish.
2009.
An ontology enhancement frame-work to accommodate imprecise concepts and rela-tions.
Journal of Emerging Technologies in Web In-telligence, 1(1).C.
Akkaya, J. Wiebe, A. Conrad, and R. Mihal-cea.
2011.
Improving the impact of subjectivityword sense disambiguation on contextual opinionanalysis.
In Proceedings of the Fifteenth Confer-ence on Computational Natural Language Learning,CoNLL ?11, pages 87?96, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.P.
Alexopoulos, B. Villazon-Terrazas, and Pan J.Z.
Pan.2013.
Towards vagueness-aware semantic data.
InFernando Bobillo, Rommel N. Carvalho, Paulo Ce-sar G. da Costa, Claudia d?Amato, Nicola Fanizzi,Kathryn B. Laskey, Kenneth J. Laskey, ThomasLukasiewicz, Trevor Martin, Matthias Nickles, andMichael Pool, editors, URSW, volume 1073 ofCEURWorkshop Proceedings, pages 40?45.
CEUR-WS.org.F.
Bobillo and U. Straccia.
2011.
Fuzzy ontology rep-resentation using owl 2. International Journal ofApproximate Reasoning, 52(7):1073?1094, October.B.
Chandrasekaran, J. Josephson, and R. Benjamins.January - February 1999.
What are ontologies andwhy do we need them?
IEEE Intelligent Systems,14(1):Page 20?26.A.
Esuli and F. Sebastiani.
2006.
Sentiwordnet: Apublicly available lexical resource for opinion min-ing.
In In Proceedings of the 5th Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation (LREC06, pages417?422.D.
Hyde.
2008.
Vagueness, Logic and Ontology.
Ash-gate New Critical Thinking in Philosophy.R.
Keefe.
2008.
Vagueness: Supervaluationism.
Phi-losophy Compass, 3:315?324.G.
Klir and B. Yuan.
1995.
Fuzzy Sets and FuzzyLogic, Theory and Applications.
Prentice Hall.S.
Shapiro.
2006.
Vagueness in Context.
Oxford Uni-versity Press.G.
Stoilos, G. Stamou, J.Z.
Pan, N. Simou, andV.
Tzouvaras.
2008.
Reasoning with the Fuzzy De-scription Logic f-SHIN: Theory, Practice and Appli-cations.
pages 262?281.F.
Su and K. Markert.
2008.
From words to senses: Acase study of subjectivity recognition.
In Proceed-ings of the 22Nd International Conference on Com-putational Linguistics - Volume 1, COLING ?08,pages 825?832, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.J.
Wiebe and R. Mihalcea.
2006.
Word sense and sub-jectivity.
In Proceedings of COLING-ACL 2006.J.
Wiebe and E. Riloff.
2005.
Creating subjectiveand objective sentence classifiers from unannotatedtexts.
In In CICLing2005, pages 486?497.T.
Wilson, P. Hoffmann, S. Somasundaran, J. Kessler,J.
Wiebe, Y. Choi, C. Cardie, E. Riloff, andS.
Patwardhan.
2005.
Opinionfinder: A sys-tem for subjectivity analysis.
In Proceedings ofHLT/EMNLP on Interactive Demonstrations, HLT-Demo ?05, pages 34?35, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.37
