Proceedings of the Demonstrations at the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 33?36,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsCHISPA on the GOA mobile Chinese-Spanish translation service for travelers in troubleJordi Centelles1,2, Marta R. Costa-juss`a1,2and Rafael E. Banchs21Universitat Polit`ecnica de Catalunya, Barcelona2Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore{visjcs,vismrc,rembanchs}@i2r.a-star.edu.sgAbstractThis demo showcases a translation service thatallows travelers to have an easy and convenientaccess to Chinese-Spanish translations via a mo-bile app.
The system integrates a phrase-basedtranslation system with other open source compo-nents such as Optical Character Recognition andAutomatic Speech Recognition to provide a veryfriendly user experience.1 IntroductionDuring the last twenty years, Machine Transla-tion technologies have matured enough to get outfrom the academic world and jump into the com-mercial area.
Current commercially available ma-chine translation services, although still not goodenough to replace human translations, are able toprovide useful and reliable support in certain ap-plications such as cross-language information re-trieval, cross-language web browsing and docu-ment exploration.On the other hand, the increasing use of smart-phones, their portability and the availability of in-ternet almost everywhere, have allowed for lots oftraditional on-line applications and services to bedeployed on these mobile platforms.In this demo paper we describe ?CHISPA on theGO?
a Chinese-Spanish translation service that in-tends to provide a portable and easy to use lan-guage assistance tool for travelers between Chi-nese and Spanish speaking countries.The main three characteristics of the presenteddemo system are as follows:?
First, the system uses a direct translation be-tween Chinese and Spanish, rather than usinga pivot language as intermediate step as mostof the current commercial systems do whendealing with distant languages.?
Second, in addition to support on-line trans-lations, as other commercial systems, oursystem also supports access from mobileplatforms, Android and iOS, by means of na-tive mobile apps.?
Third, the mobile apps combine the basetranslation technology with other supportingtechnologies such as Automatic SpeechRecognition (ASR), Optical CharacterRecognition (OCR), Image retrieval andLanguage detection in order to provide afriendly user experience.2 SMT system descriptionThe translation technology used in our systemis based on the well-known phrase-based trans-lation statistical approach (Koehn et al., 2003).This approach performs the translation splittingthe source sentence in segments and assigning toeach segment a bilingual phrase from a phrase-table.
Bilingual phrases are translation units thatcontain source words and target words, and havedifferent scores associated to them.
These bilin-gual phrases are then selected in order to max-imize a linear combination of feature functions.Such strategy is known as the log-linear model(Och and Ney, 2002).
The two main feature func-tions are the translation model and the target lan-guage model.
Additional models include lexicalweights, phrase and word penalty and reordering.2.1 Experimental detailsGenerally, Chinese-Spanish translation followspivot approaches to be translated (Costa-juss`a etal., 2012) because of the lack of parallel data totrain the direct approach.
The main advantageof our system is that we are using the direct ap-proach and at the same time we rely on a prettylarge corpus.
For Chinese-Spanish, we use (1) theHoly Bible corpus (Banchs and Li, 2008), (2) the33United Nations corpus, which was released for re-search purposes (Rafalovitch and Dale, 2009), (3)a small subset of the European Parliament PlenarySpeeches where the Chinese part was syntheti-cally produced by translating from English, (4) alarge TAUS corpus (TausData, 2013) which comesfrom technical translation memories, and (5) an in-house developed small corpus in the transportationand hospitality domains.
In total we have 70 mil-lion words.A careful preprocessing was developed for alllanguages.
Chinese was segmented with Stanfordsegmenter (Tseng et al., 2005) and Spanish waspreprocessed with Freeling (Padr?o et al., 2010).When Spanish is used as a source language, it ispreprocessed by lower-casing and unaccented theinput.
Finally, we use the MOSES decoder (Koehnet al., 2007) with standard configuration: align-grow-final-and alignment symmetrization, 5-gramlanguage model with interpolation and kneser-neydiscount and phrase-smoothing and lexicalized re-ordering.
We use our in-house developed corpusto optimize because our application is targeted tothe travelers-in-need domain.3 Web Translator and MobileApplicationThis section describes the main system architec-ture and the main features of web translator andthe mobile applications.3.1 System architectureFigure 1 shows a block diagram of the system ar-chitecture.
Below, we explain the main compo-nents of the architecture, starting with the back-end and ending with the front-end.3.1.1 Back-endAs previously mentioned, our translation systemuses MOSES.
More specifically, we use the opensource MOSES server application developed bySaint-Amand (2013).
Because translation tablesneed to be kept permanently in memory, we use bi-nary tables to reduce the memory space consump-tion.
The MOSES server communicates with a PHPscript that is responsible for receiving the query tobe translated and sending the translation back.For the Chinese-Spanish language pair, wecount with four types of PHP scripts.
Two of themcommunicate with the web-site and the other twowith the mobile applications.
In both cases, oneFigure 1: Block diagram of the system architec-tureof the two PHP scripts supports Chinese to Span-ish translations and the other one the Spanish toChinese translations.The functions of the PHP scripts responsiblefor supporting translations are: (1) receive theChinese/Spanish queries from the front-end; (2)preprocess the Chinese/Spanish queries; (3) sendthese preprocessed queries to the Chinese/Spanishto Spanish/Chinese MOSES servers; (4) receive thetranslated queries; and (5) send them back to thefront-end.3.1.2 Front-endHTML and Javascript constitute the main codecomponents of the translation website.Anotherweb development technique used was Ajax, whichallows for asynchronous communication betweenthe MOSES server and the website.
This means thatthe website does not need to be refreshed after ev-ery translation.The HTTP protocol is used for the communica-tions between the web and the server.
Specifically,34we use the POST method, in which the server re-ceives data through the request message?s body.The Javascript is used mainly to implement theinput methods of the website, which are a Spanishkeyboard and a Pinyin input method, both opensource and embedded into our code.
Also, usingJavascript, a small delay was programmed in orderto automatically send the query to the translatoreach time the user stops typing.Another feature that is worth mentioning is thesupport of user feedback to suggest better transla-tions.
Using MYSQL, we created a database inthe server where all user suggestions are stored.Later, these suggestions can be processed off-lineand used in order to improve the system.Additionally, all translations processed by thesystem are stored in a file.
This information is tobe exploited in the near future, when a large num-ber of translations has been collected, to mine forthe most commonly requested translations.
Themost common translation set will be used to im-plement an index and search engine so that anyquery entered by a user, will be first checkedagainst the index to avoid overloading the trans-lation engine.3.2 Android and iphone applicationsThe android app was programmed with the An-droid development tools (ADT).
It is a plug-in forthe Eclipse IDE that provides the necessary envi-ronment for building an app.The Android-based ?CHISPA on the GO?
appis depicted in Figure 2.For the communication between the Androidapp and the server we use the HTTPClient inter-face.
Among other things, it allows a client tosend data to the server via, for instance, the POSTmethod, as used on the website case.For the Iphone app we use the xcode softwareprovided by apple and the programming languageused is Objective C.In addition to the base translation system, theapp also incorporates Automatic Speech Recogni-tion (ASR), Optical Character Recognition tech-nologies as input methods (OCR), Image retrievaland Language detection.3.2.1 ASR and OCRIn the case of ASR, we relay on the native ASRengines of the used mobile platforms: Jelly-beanin the case of Android1and Siri in the case of1http://www.android.com/about/jelly-bean/Figure 2: Android applicationiOS2.
Regarding the OCR implemented technol-ogy, this is an electronic conversion of scannedimages into machine-encoded text.
We adaptedthe open-source OCR Tesseract (released under theApache license) (Tesseract, 2013).3.2.2 Image retrievalFor image retrieving, we use the popular websiteflickr (Ludicorp, 2004).
The image retrieving isactivated with an specific button ?search Image?button in the app (see Figure 2).
Then, an URL(using the HTTPClient method) is sent to a flickrserver.
In the URL we specify the tag (i.e.
thetopic of the images we want), the number of im-ages, the secret key (needed to interact with flickr)and also the type of object we expect (in our case,a JSON object).
When the server response is re-ceived, we parse the JSON object.
Afterwards,with the HTTPConnection method and the infor-mation parsed, we send the URL back to the serverand we retrieve the images requested.
Also, theJAVA class that implements all these methods ex-tends an AsyncTask in order to not block theuser interface meanwhile is exchanging informa-tion with the flickr servers.3.2.3 Language detectionWe have also implemented a very simple but ef-fective language detection system, which is verysuitable for distinguishing between Chinese andSpanish.
Given the type of encoding we are using2http://www.apple.com/ios/siri/35(UTF-8), codes for most characters used in Span-ish are in the range from 40 to 255, and codes formost characters used in Chinese are in the rangefrom 11,000 and 30,000.
Accordingly, we havedesigned a simple procedure which computes theaverage code for the sequence of characters to betranslated.
This average value is compared with athreshold to determine whether the given sequenceof characters represents a Chinese or a Spanish in-put.4 ConclusionsIn this demo paper, we described ?CHISPA onthe GO?
a translation service that allows travelers-in-need to have an easy and convenient access toChinese-Spanish translations via a mobile app.The main characteristics of the presented sys-tem are: the use direct translation between Chi-nese and Spanish, the support of both website aswell as mobile platforms, and the integration ofsupporting input technologies such as AutomaticSpeech Recognition, Optical Character Recogni-tion, Image retrieval and Language detection.As future work we intend to exploit collecteddata to implement an index and search engine forproviding fast access to most commonly requestedtranslations.
The objective of this enhancement istwofold: supporting off-line mode and alleviatingthe translation server load.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank the UniversitatPolit`ecnica de Catalunya and the Institute for In-focomm Research for their support and permissionto publish this research.
This work has been par-tially funded by the Seventh Framework Programof the European Commission through the Inter-national Outgoing Fellowship Marie Curie Action(IMTraP-2011-29951) and the HLT Department ofthe Institute for Infocomm Reseach.ReferencesR.
E. Banchs and H. Li.
2008.
Exploring Span-ish Morphology effects on Chinese-Spanish SMT.In MATMT 2008: Mixing Approaches to MachineTranslation, pages 49?53, Donostia-San Sebastian,Spain, February.M.
R. Costa-juss`a, C. A.
Henr?
?quez Q, and R. E.Banchs.
2012.
Evaluating indirect strategies forchinese-spanish statistical machine translation.
J.Artif.
Int.
Res., 45(1):761?780, September.P.
Koehn, F.J. Och, and D. Marcu.
2003.
Statisti-cal Phrase-Based Translation.
In Proceedings of the41st Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics (ACL?03).P.
Koehn, H. Hoang, A. Birch, C. Callison-Burch,M.
Federico, N. Bertoldi, B. Cowan, W. Shen,C.
Moran, R. Zens, C. Dyer, O. Bojar, A. Con-stantin, and E. Herbst.
2007.
Moses: Open sourcetoolkit for statistical machine translation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics (ACL?07), pages177?180, Prague, Czech Republic, June.Ludicorp.
2004.
Flickr.
accessed online May 2013http://www.flickr.com/.F.J.
Och and H. Ney.
2002.
Dicriminative trainingand maximum entropy models for statistical ma-chine translation.
In Proceedings of the 40th An-nual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL?02), pages 295?302, Philadelphia,PA, July.L.
Padr?o, M. Collado, S. Reese, M. Lloberes, andI.
Castell?on.
2010.
FreeLing 2.1: Five Years ofOpen-Source Language Processing Tools.
In Pro-ceedings of 7th Language Resources and EvaluationConference (LREC 2010), La Valleta, Malta, May.A.
Rafalovitch and R. Dale.
2009.
United NationsGeneral Assembly Resolutions: A Six-LanguageParallel Corpus.
In Proceedings of the MT SummitXII, pages 292?299, Ottawa.H.
Saint-Amand.
2013.
Moses server.
accessedonline May 2013 http://www.statmt.org/moses/?n=Moses.WebTranslation.TausData.
2013.
Taus data.
accessed online May 2013http://www.tausdata.org.Tesseract.
2013.
Ocr.
accessed onlineMay 2013 https://code.google.com/p/tesseract-ocr/.H.
Tseng, P. Chang, G. Andrew, D. Jurafsky, andC.
Manning.
2005.
A conditional random fieldword segmenter.
In Fourth SIGHAN Workshop onChinese Language Processing.Appendix: Demo Script OutlineThe presenter will showcase the ?CHISPA on theGO?
app by using the three different supported in-put methods: typing, speech and image.
Trans-lated results will be displayed along with relatedpictures of the translated items and/or locationswhen available.
A poster will be displayed closeto the demo site, which will illustrate the main ar-chitecture of the platform and will briefly explainthe technology components of it.36
