Proceedings of the Student Research Workshop at the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 31?37,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsNow We Stronger Than Ever: African-American Syntax in TwitterIan StewartDartmouth CollegeHanover, NH 03755ian.b.stewart.14@dartmouth.eduAbstractAfrican American English (AAE) is awell-established dialect that exhibits a dis-tinctive syntax, including constructionslike habitual be.
Using data mined fromthe social media service Twitter, the pro-posed senior thesis project intends to studythe demographic distribution of a sub-set of AAE syntactic constructions.
Thisstudy expands on previous sociolinguisticTwitter work (Eisenstein et al., 2011) byadding part-of-speech tags to the data, thusenabling detection of short-range syntac-tic features.
Through an analysis of eth-nic and gender data associated with AAEtweets, this project will provide a more ac-curate description of the dialect?s speakersand distribution.1 IntroductionMost modern studies of sociolinguistics focus onphonetic or lexical variation to draw conclusionsabout a dialect or a social group.
For example,the Atlas of North American English (2005) mapslanguage variation entirely by the differences inproduction and perception of phonetic variables.Although this is an integral part of sociolinguis-tics, research has given less attention to synchronicvariation in syntax, which is also an important as-pect of language change.
Recent initiatives likeYale?s Grammatical Diversity Project (2014) havebeen invaluable in demonstrating the breadth ofsyntactic variation in North America, and smaller-scale research like Kendall et al.
(2011) hasbeen equally vital for investigating the propertiesof constructions within a ?
nonstandard?
dialect.While other sociolinguistic studies have used asystematic analysis of corpora to detect phoneticand lexical change (Yaeger-Dror and Thomas,2010; Eisenstein et al., 2011), such approaches areunder-utilized with respect to syntactic variation.Varieties of African American English pro-vide a wide range of syntactic features to study,with constructions ranging from aspectual par-ticles like done (such as ?
he done eaten?
for?
he?s just eaten? )
to double negation (such as?
can?t nobody? )
(Wolfram, 2004).
AAE sharessome features with Southern American Englishbut is spoken throughout the United States.
Themajority of research in AAE syntax relies ondata collected from interview-based conversations(Labov, 2012), published letters (Kendall et al.,2011) and observations of dialect acquisition inchildren (Green and Roeper, 2007).
Though valu-able, this kind of data is often restricted to a spe-cific location and cannot always keep pace withthe most recent language developments among flu-ent young speakers.
The proposed study seeks tosystematically study AAE syntax in a more youth-centric environment and describe the geographicalor gender-based correlation in the distribution ofsuch syntax.2 ProposalThis thesis?s primary hypothesis is that there is aquantifiable correlation between ethnicity and fea-tures of AAE syntax found in large-scale socialmedia.
This will be supported or challenged bythe geographic and demographic data associatedwith the constructions, as previous studies of di-alect reappropriation have suggested a spread ofAAE beyond expected areas (Reyes, 2005).
As asecondary hypothesis, the project will investigatea correlation between AAE syntax and gender,which has been suggested but not tested on a largescale.
Eckert and McConnell-Ginet (2013) arguefor a connection between gender and identity ex-pression (often associated with ?
speech style?
),which would generally suggest greater AAE syn-tax usage among women.
Even if the neither cor-relation is proven plausible, the study will pro-vide valuable insight about the frequency and ge-31ographic location of specific AAE syntactic fea-tures.
This project is being co-supervised by aprofessor of sociolinguistics and a postdoctoral re-searcher in computer science.3 Procedure3.1 PreprocessingAs a data source, the online social media serviceTwitter is a firehose of information, comprising16% of all Internet users (Duggan and Brenner,2013) and millions of ?
tweets?
(140-characterposts) per day.
Using data from Twitter, Eisensteinet al.
(2011) demonstrated an empirical correla-tion between regional vocabulary and the locationof Twitter users.
In a similar approach, this projectcombines metadata of tweets with their contentand uses this information to investigate the rela-tionship between AAE syntax and region.The Twitter data was collected from July to De-cember 2013.
We used the website?s API that pro-vides a stream of publicly available tweets (ap-proximately 5% of the total tweet volume), re-stricting our data to geotagged tweets from withinthe United States.
Each tweet includes geographi-cal coordinates (latitude and longitude), name andidentity of the Twitter user, and time of creation,as well as its content.
The content is broken upand simplified in separate tokens for analysis (e.g.?
What?s up??
becomes ?
[what] [?
s] [up] [?]?
).Following previous work (Eisenstein et al., 2010),we minimize spam posts by removing tweets thatcontain URLs, and tweets from users that con-tributed fewer than 20 messages to this data.
Thisgives us a corpus of about 200 million tweets.Before mining the data, we seek to first elimi-nate as many retweets as possible to avoid skewingthe data.
Although we can easily detect retweetsthat are made through the standard Twitter inter-face, or are preceded by the token RT, we no-tice that the data contains several unstructuredretweets, where a user quotes a tweet from an-other user without explicitly indicating that it isa retweet.
We handle these by simply filteringout every line containing a high-frequency higherorder n-gram.
After qualitatively observing theresults of filtering with different n-gram and fre-quency combinations, the most efficient and leasterror-prone filter was determined to be a 6-gramwith frequency over 10.
Making the assumptionthat most retweets occur within the same 24-hourperiod, the tweets of each day were segmentedinto 6-grams.
The 6-grams were tabulated, and alltweets containing a 6-gram with frequency over 10were omitted.
Each day?s filtered tweets were thenrecombined to form the full monthly data.
This re-duced the size of the corpus by about 26%.After being filtered, the content of each tweet isfed into a part-of-speech (POS) tagging programdeveloped by Gimpel et al.
(2011).
This programhas achieved over 90% accuracy by using statis-tics gathered from Twitter data hand-labeled withPOS tags.
The tagging task is accomplished witha conditional random field using features includ-ing non-standard orthography, distributional simi-larity, and phonetic normalization.The above uses only 25 tags that range fromsimple lexemes like O (non-possessive pronoun)to complex morphemes like M (proper noun +verbal).
In addition to these basic POS tags, thetweets were tagged with a Penn Treebank-stylemodel trained over another hand-labelled data set(Derczynski et al., 2013).
This additional tag set iscrucial in detecting constructions like 3rd-personsingular -s drop (e.g.
?
she keep her face down?
),which depends on verbal morphology that can bedescribed with PTB tags, but not the simplifiedtagset of Gimpel et al.
(2011).Owoputi et al.
(2013) address the possibil-ity that some AAE tense-aspect-mood (TAM)particles may fall outside the standard POS-tag systems.
However, we have observed that?
nonstandard?
morphemes like finna were taggedsimilarly to Standard American English mor-phemes, which is likely due to the AAE mor-phemes exhibiting similar distributional propertiesto corresponding standard morphemes.3.2 Querying and AnalysisUsing the preprocessed data, it is possible tosearch through the tagged tweets for a particu-lar syntactic construction by combining the lex-ical and POS information in a search phrase.For instance, one might use the phrase PRO-ADJ (?
we cool,?
?
he cute? )
to detect cop-ula deletion or PRO-be-V for habitual be.
Us-ing regular expressions, these searches canbe fine-tuned to ignore noise in the data bysearching for patterns like !V-PRO-ADJ (?
non-verb+pronoun+adjective?
), which ignore falsepositives like ?
made me hot.?
In addition, casesof long-distance constructions like negative con-cord (?
there ain?t nobody? )
can be handled by32Table 1: AAE Constructions and Patterns of DetectionConstruction Example from Corpus Simplified Pattern Tagger Usedcopula deletion we stronger than ever not(V)+PRO+ADJ PTBhabitual be now i be sober af not(V)+PRO+be+ADJ PTBcontinuative steady steady getting bigger steady+not(N) Gimpelcompletive done u done pissed me off done+VPSTPTBfuture finna (fixing to) i?m finna tweet finna+V Gimpelremote past been i been had it PRO/N+been+VPSTPTBnegative concord don?t say nothingdon?t/ain?t/can?t+V+nobody/nothing/nowhere/noGimpelnull genitive marking time of they life PRONOM+N Gimpelass camouflage construc-tion(Collins et al.
2008)divorced his ass V+PROPOSS+ass PTBaccounting for a wider context than the keywordsthemselves, using gaps in the expression.
For in-stance, we detected copula deletion with !V-PRO-ADJ as well as !V-PRO-ADV-ADJ.
This strategywas especially useful in preventing false negativesthat would otherwise be filtered by rigid patterns(e.g.
?
he too cute?
ignored by !V-PRO-ADJ).Table 1 contains a list of all constructionsqueried for this project.
To the extent of ourknowledge, this is the first study to use regu-lar expressions to use regular expressions andPOS tagged data to capture ?
non-standard?
En-glish syntax.
The ?
Tagger?
column refers to thePOS tagger used to detect the construction: either?
Gimpel?
(Gimpel et al., 2011) or ?PTB?
(Der-czynski et al., 2013).Some of the constructions, such as the null gen-itive (e.g.
?
time of they life?
), could be classifiedas morphological rather than syntactic phenomenaand thus may appear to fall outside the scope ofthis project.
However, it must be noted that thesephenomena would not be easily detectable withouta POS tagger, which relies on the syntactic con-text to accurately tag such ambiguous words as?they?
(which could be a misspelling of ?their?
).Furthermore, studies such as Wolfram (2004) thatsurvey AAE grammar also consider morphologi-cal phenomena to have comparable frequency anddistributional tendencies as syntactic phenomena.Thus, this project chooses to analyze such mor-phological patterns in the same manner as syntac-tic patterns.After querying the data using the regular ex-pressions, the resulting tweets are associated withthe metadata corresponding to each tweet.
Thisincludes demographic information about the ZIPCode Tabulation Area (ZCTA) associated with thetweet (based on the latitude and longitude coor-dinates) as well as the estimated gender of thetweeter.
ZCTAs are regions defined by the Cen-sus Bureau that roughly correspond to postal ZIPcodes.
Each ZCTA?s demographic data includesa number of features.
We focus on ethnicitypopulation percentages, overall population in theZCTA, median age, and percentage of the pop-ulation living in rented housing (which in somecases could be used to approximate a ZIP code?srelative ?urban-ness?).
The gender of a user isguessed by comparing the tweeter?s name withthe Social Security Administration?s list of babynames from 1995 (http://www.ssa.gov/oact/babynames/limits.html), with anyuser whose name does not appear in the list beingassigned a gender of ?Unknown?.
This is a com-mon method used to determine gender in large-scale datasets (Sloan et al., 2013) and one suitedto Twitter?s younger user base (Duggan and Bren-ner, 2013).4 Results4.1 Comparison of Average DemographicsOur initial approach to the hypothesis ?
namely,that Twitter shows a quantifiable correlation be-tween ethnicity and usage of AAE syntax ?
wasa comparison of the demographics of the tweetersthat use the AAE constructions listed in Table 1to the average demographics over all users in ourdata.
The constructions?
average demographics33Table 2: Mean Demographic Profiles of AAE Construction UsersMean % Mean % Gender RatioConstruction User % African-American Caucasian Female : Male : UnknownPopulation PopulationOverall Statistics 1, 135, 019 13.67?
18.66% 71.81?
21.66% 36.78 : 31.17 : 32.05users totalCopula Deletion 45.62% 13.64% 71.80% 37.27 : 30.18 : 32.55ass Camouflage 40.25% 14.09% 71.4% 36.27 : 28.88 : 34.84ConstructionFuture finna 17.33% 14.46% 70.97% 35.37 : 27.65 : 36.98Habitual be 31.63% 14.43% 71.24% 36.04 : 28.44 : 35.52Continuative steady 1.304% 15.45% 69.44% 33.20 : 26.32 : 40.48Completive done 6.061% 14.81% 70.44% 34.06 : 26.95 : 38.98Remote Past been 8.384% 14.83% 70.48% 33.58 : 25.99 : 36.80Negative Concord 18.14% 14.47% 70.92% 35.30 : 27.70 : 37.00Negative Inversion 17.66% 14.50% 70.92% 35.30 : 27.63 : 37.07Null Genitive 13.59% 14.61% 70.75% 34.84 : 27.56 : 37.60were calculated counting each construction-useronly once, regardless of how many times they usethat construction.While reasonable, this approach did not provideencouraging results, as demonstrated by Table 2.The constructions?
demographics deviated onlyslightly from the overall demographics, though thevariation reflected the expected trend of higherAfrican-American population (avg.
+0.859%) andlower Caucasian population (avg.
-0.974%).
Theconstructions showed similar standard deviationsto those of the overall demographics.
Further eth-nic statistics such as average Asian population,which might have been interesting in light of re-search on dialect reappropriation (Reyes, 2005),were also highly uniform when comparing con-structions to overall data.In addition to ethnic demographics, the genderbreakdown was somewhat uninformative as bothfemale and male users were less represented thanexpected.
This may have indicated a failure onthe part of the gender-guesser to guess more un-usual names like ?
Notorious J.
$tash?
that couldbe associated with AAE syntax.
With such negli-gible deviations from the mean demographics, ad-ditional data analysis techniques such as linear re-gression and clustering of users with similar de-mographic data would seem to yield negligible re-sults.
Thus, these techniques were deemed unnec-essary for these averages.There are a few possible explanations for theinconclusive results in ethnic demographics andgender.
First, the information associated with theZCTA is drawn from the 2010 U.S. census data,which may not match the demographics of so-cial media users.
While the time difference be-tween 2010 and 2013 is unlikely to make a sig-nificant difference, the discrepancy between real-life statistics and social media metadata may re-sult in statistics contradictory to the Twitter userdemographics proposed by Duggan and Brenner(2013).
The current study accepts this as a possi-ble source of error and looks toward future stud-ies that directly associate social media users withgeographic demographics.
More importantly, thisthesis relies on ethnic demographics derived fromusers?
environments rather than directly availabledata such as names, as in Eisenstein et al.
(2011).This distinction is crucial, as it dampens the appar-ent presence of black Twitter users in ZCTAs withlow African American population percentages.While statistically inconclusive for individualconstructions, the apparent pervasiveness of AAEsyntax as a whole is surprising, even consideringthe observation by Duggan and Brenner (2013)that 26% of African-American Internet users areon Twitter.
Admittedly, no regular expression isfree from error, but the apparent 45.62% copuladeletion usage rate is impressive for a construc-tion that was once used to parody the speech ofAAE speakers (Green, 2002).
Furthermore, theusers of each construction tend to be located inthe data?s most common ZCTAs, which are of-ten youth-centric college towns such as San Mar-cos, Texas.
The non-trivial user percentages andsignificant diffusion of usage outside of expectedurban areas build on claims by Wolfram (2004)about ?
new and intensifying structures in urbanAAVE,?
such as habitual be, as well as ?
recedingurban features?
such as remote past been.
The34relatively homogenous distribution of such con-structions may even reflect a stable position forAAE as a unified dialect across typical Ameri-can English dialect regions.
However, a long-termTwitter corpus will be necessary to test the di-achronic behavior of these apparently ?
receding?and ?
intensifying?
features.4.2 Logistic RegressionFollowing the initial results, we adopted a differ-ent approach to measure AAE usage by perform-ing a logistic regression over the demographicscollected for the AAE constructions as well astheir Standard American English (SAE) counter-parts.
For example, the SAE equivalent of theAAE future finna was considered to be regulargenitive pronouns (e.g.
AAE ?
they house?
vs.SAE ?their house?).
At the time of submission, weonly extracted SAE demographics for a subset ofthe constructions.
The most salient results of theregression are displayed in Table 3.
The variablesunder consideration are the correlation coefficientsrelating each construction to the demographics as-sociated with the users, with positive values indi-cating a trend toward the AAE construction andnegative values indicating a trend toward the SAEconstruction.Before observing the coefficients, the first no-table characteristic of the SAE data is the highrate of occurrence for most standard construc-tions, such as ?
Standard be+Ving?
.
This may in-dicate that there is overlap in SAE and AAE usageamong Twitter users, which is unsurprising giventhe prevalence of code-switching among AAEspeakers in non-virtual environments (Labov,2012) as well as the strong potential for di-alect spread (Reyes, 2005).
To investigate thispossibility, future refinement of this regressionapproximation will compare Twitter users whoonly employ SAE constructions versus those whoonly employ the corresponding AAE construction.Though perhaps an artificial distinction that willtend more toward data sparsity than abundance,this strategy will hopefully reveal a split betweenspeakers that tend more toward one dialect thanthe other, from which further proposals can betested (e.g.
the most reliable construction charac-terizing each dialect).The correlation coefficients in Table 3 gener-ally tend toward positive for population of theZCTA, suggesting a prevalence of AAE in high-population areas and a diffusion of SAE through-out all populated areas.
However, the correlationcoefficients for Caucasian population and African-American population are less informative and tendslightly toward SAE constructions, with the no-table exceptions of negative concord and inver-sion, which Wolfram (2004) classified as ?
stable?urban AAE features.In all cases, the numeric values of the demo-graphic correlation coefficients (including thosenot shown such as Asian-American population)are so low as to be statistically inconclusive.
How-ever, in all AAE/SAE syntax pairs except for thenegations, the correlation coefficients for femaleusers showed a tendency toward positive.
Thiscould provide support for the female identity-expression hypothesis proposed by Eckert andMcConnell-Ginet (2013) but could also indicatean error with the samples obtained using the cur-rent AAE syntax patterns (e.g.
smaller samplestend to skew toward areas with more women).
Fur-ther comparison of male vs. female AAE usage isnecessary to provide more evidence for the appar-ent tendency toward women.5 Conclusion and Future DirectionsThis thesis proposes (a) a method for detectingAAE syntactic constructions in tweets, and (b) us-ing the metadata from said tweets to approximatethe demographics of the users of AAE construc-tions.
The goal of this thesis is to estimate the cur-rent state of AAE usage among American socialmedia users.
This project has not yet uncovereda clear connection between ethnic demographicsand the use of AAE syntax, suggesting that thedialect is more widespread than previous studiessuch as Wood and Zanuttini (2014) may have pre-dicted.
However, several analyses of the data havesuggested that women on Twitter employ AAEsyntax more than men, even taking into considera-tion the slightly higher proportion of women usingsocial media.
A different approach to data anal-ysis, and potentially stricter syntax-detection pat-terns (e.g.
only detecting special sub-cases of cop-ula deletion), will be necessary to discover trendsof AAE usage within the massive dataset.Since the synchronic approach seemed to yieldlimited results, the next step in the project will beanalyzing the data on a diachronic scale.
The firstgoal of this approach is to corroborate or chal-lenge the claims of Wolfram (2004) concerning35Table 3: Regression Results over AAE and SAE DemographicsAAE/SAE SAE User % Coefficient Coefficient Coefficient CoefficientSyntax Pair (Population) (%Caucasian) (%African-American) (Female)Copula Deletion/ 93.30% 0.0208 ?0.0001 ?0.0005 0.0321Standard CopulaFuture finna/ 61.75% 0.0312 ?0.0024 ?0.0006 0.0458Future gonnaHabitual be/ 79.79% 0.0361 ?0.0032 ?0.0019 0.0529Standard be+VingContinuative steady/ 79.79% 0.0669 ?0.0077 ?0.0027 0.0505Standard be+VingCompletive done/ 94.12% 0.0846 ?0.0076 ?0.0045 0.0685Standard VPSTNegative Concord/ 22.15% 0.0091 0.0009 0.0014 ?0.0006Standard NegationNegative Inversion/ 20.16% ?0.0181 0.0005 0.0006 0.0018Non-Inverted Negation?
intensifying,?
?
stable,?
and ?
receding?
AAEsyntax features by extrapolating a larger pattern ofchange from the limited time series available (July- December 2013).
Secondarily, assuming thatsome of these features are changing in usage overtime, this approach will test whether female Twit-ter users are leaders of change-in-progress, a trendproven by previous sociolinguistic studies (Eckertand McConnell-Ginet, 2013).
In contrast, Reyes(2005) proposes that Asian-American young menadopt AAE slang to emulate African American?
hyper-masculinity?
, a trend which could lead tomen rather than women being leaders of dialectreappropriation.
To discover such trends of adop-tion among individual users, it may also makesense to track each tweeter?s AAE vs. SAE us-age to determine the extent to which an individualuser?s syntax can change over time.Outside the scope of this study, future workmight consider using a semi-supervised trainingmethod over POS n-grams to automatically de-tect certain syntactic constructions.
This wouldeliminate the need for rigid regular expressions insearching for tweets with AAE syntax, and alsoenable the detection of a variety of other construc-tions.
In addition, future AAE studies in Twittermay benefit from the approach of Bergsma et al.
(2013), which use user names and patterns of in-teraction to infer ?
hidden properties?
such as gen-der and race.
Under this framework, researchersmight leverage online social media metadata toexplore emergent linguistic behavior of variousspeech communities linked by patterns of interac-tion.
This is an intriguing possibility to considerwith the increasing presence of online communi-ties like ?
Black Twitter?
(Sharma, 2013), whichallow real-world linguistic trends like AAE syntaxto propagate in virtual space.AcknowledgmentsThis study was funded in part by the NeukomInstitute for Computational Science (http://neukom.dartmouth.edu/) and the Presiden-tial Scholars Program at Dartmouth.
The project isbeing supervised by Professor James Stanford andpostdoctorate scholar Dr. Sravana Reddy of Dart-mouth College.ReferencesShane Bergsma, Mark Dredze, Benjamin vanDurme, Theresa Wilson, and David Yarowsky.2013.
Broadly Improving User Classificationvia Communication-Based Name and LocationClustering on Twitter.
Proceedings of NAACL-HLT2013, pages 1010?1019.Leon Derczynski, Alan Ritter, Sam Clark, and KalinaBontcheva.
2013.
Twitter Part-of-Speech Taggingfor All: Overcoming Sparse and Noisy Data.
Pro-ceedings of Recent Advances in Natural LanguageProcessing, pages 198?206.Maeve Duggan and Joanna Brenner.
2013.
The De-mographics of Social Media Users - 2012.
Pew Re-36search Center?s Internet & American Life Project,pages 1?14.Penelope Eckert and Sally McConnell-Ginet.
2013.Language and Gender.
Cambridge UniversityPress, New York, 2 edition.Jacob Eisenstein, Brendan O?Connor, Noah Smith, andEric Xing.
2010.
A latent variable model for geo-graphic lexical variation.
In Proceedings of the Con-ference on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing (EMNLP).Jacob Eisenstein, Noah A. Smith, and Eric P. Xing.2011.
Discovering Sociolinguistic Associationswith Structured Sparsity.
Proceedings of the 49thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, 1(49):1365?1374.Kevin Gimpel, Nathan Schneider, Brendan O?Connor,Dipanjan Das, Daniel Mills, Jacob Eisenstein,Michael Heilman, Dani Yogatama, Jeffrey Flanigan,and Noah A. Smith.
2011.
Part-of-Speech Taggingfor Twitter: Annotation, Features, and Experiments.Proceedings of NAACL-HLT, pages 380?390.Lisa Green and Thomas Roeper.
2007.
The Acquisi-tion Path for Tense-Aspect: Remote Past and Habit-ual in Child African American English.
LanguageAcquisition, 14(3):269?313.Lisa Green.
2002.
African American English: A Lin-guistic Introduction.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.Tyler Kendall, Joan Bresnan, and Gerard van Herk.2011.
The dative alternation in African AmericanEnglish: Researching syntactic variation and changeacross sociolinguistic datasets.
Corpus Linguisticsand Linguistics Theory, 7(2):229?244.William Labov, Sharon Ash, and Charles Boberg.2005.
The Atlas of North American English: Pho-netics, Phonology, and Sound Change.
Walter deGruyer, Berlin.Wiliam Labov.
2012.
Language in the inner city: Stud-ies in the black English vernacular.
University ofPhiladelphia Press, Philadelphia, PA.Olutobi Owoputi, Brendan O?Connor, Chris Dyer,Kevin Gimpel, Nathan Schneider, and Noah A.Smith.
2013.
Improved Part-of-Speech Taggingfor Online Conversational Text with Word Clusters.Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2013, pages 380?390.Angela Reyes.
2005.
Appropriation of African Amer-ican slang by Asian American youth.
Journal of So-ciolinguistics, 9(4):509?532.Sanjay Sharma.
2013.
Black Twitter?
: Racial Hash-tags, Networks and Contagion.
new formations: ajournal of culture/theory/politics, 78(1):46?64.Luke Sloan, Jeffrey Morgan, William Housley,Matthew Williams, Adam Edwards, Pete Burnap,and Omer Rana.
2013.
Knowing the Tweeters: De-riving Sociologically Relevant Demographics fromTwitter.
Sociological Research Online, 18(3).Walt Wolfram.
2004.
Urban African American Ver-nacular English: morphology and syntax*.
InBernard Kortmann, editor, A handbook of varietiesof English.
1.
Phonology, Volume 2, volume 2, pages319?340.
Walter de Gruyer.Jim Wood and Natalie Zanuttini.
2014.The Yale Grammatical Diversity Project.http://microsyntax.sites.yale.edu/.Malcah Yaeger-Dror and Erik R. Thomas.
2010.African American English Speakers and Their Par-ticipation in Local Sound Changes: A ComparativeStudy.
Duke University Press for the American Di-alect Society, Durham, NC.37
