Proceedings of the Demonstrations at the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 45?48,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe New THOT Toolkit for Fully-Automatic and Interactive StatisticalMachine TranslationDaniel Ortiz-Mart??nezDpto.
de Sist.
Inf.
y Comp.Univ.
Polit?ec.
de Valencia46071 Valencia, Spaindortiz@dsic.upv.esFrancisco CasacubertaDpto.
de Sist.
Inf.
y Comp.Univ.
Polit?ec.
de Valencia46071 Valencia, Spainfcn@dsic.upv.esAbstractWe present the new THOT toolkit for fully-automatic and interactive statistical ma-chine translation (SMT).
Initial public ver-sions of THOT date back to 2005 and didonly include estimation of phrase-basedmodels.
By contrast, the new version of-fers several new features that had not beenpreviously incorporated.
The key innova-tions provided by the toolkit are computer-aided translation, including post-editingand interactive SMT, incremental learn-ing and robust generation of alignmentsat phrase level.
In addition to this, thetoolkit also provides standard SMT fea-tures such as fully-automatic translation,scalable and parallel algorithms for modeltraining, client-server implementation ofthe translation functionality, etc.
Thetoolkit can be compiled in Unix-like andWindows platforms and it is released un-der the GNU Lesser General Public Li-cense (LGPL).1 IntroductionOpen-source software constitutes a valuable re-source for researchers or companies.
Due to theinherent difficulties of developing good qualitysoftware (correct, efficient, modular, extensible,well-documented, etc.
), there are interesting re-search ideas that not always receive enough atten-tion from the open-source software community.We present the THOT toolkit for statistical ma-chine translation (SMT).
The first public versionof THOT was initially created in 2005 (Ortiz etal., 2005) and its functionality was restricted totrain phrase-based models (Koehn et al., 2003).Here we present a new version of THOT whichincludes several new features related to phrase-based translation.
More specifically, the set of fea-tures provided by THOT can be classified into ad-vanced features and standard features.
Advancedfeatures correspond to sophisticated functionalitythat has received poor or no attention in existingSMT toolkits.
By contrast, standard features cor-respond to functionality already provided by pop-ular tools such as Moses (Koehn et al., 2007).
Inthis regard, THOT neither is based on Moses norshares any source code with it.THOT includes the following advanced features:?
Computer-aided translation, including post-editing and interactive machine translation(IMT).
This functionality has been inte-grated in a translation tool developed in theCasMaCat project1(the so-called CasMaCatWorkbench).?
Incremental estimation of all of the modelsinvolved in the translation process.?
Robust generation of phrase-based align-ments.Computer-aided translation and more specifi-cally two of its applications, post-editing and IMT,constitute a field of increasing interest in SMT.
Inparticular, IMT has been studied in numerous re-search papers during the last years.
In spite ofthis, this application has not previously been im-plemented in open-source software tools.Incremental (or online) learning is a hot re-search topic in SMT due to the great interest ofquickly incorporating incoming data into exist-ing translation systems.
In spite of the fact thatthe Moses toolkit already implements incrementallearning techniques, such techniques are designedto work by incrementally processing large blocksof data and not in a sentence-wise manner, as it ispointed out in (Mirking and Cancedda, 2013).
By1http://www.casmacat.eu/45contrast, the incremental learning techniques im-plemented by THOT allows to process new train-ing samples individually in real time.Finally, the necessity of generating phrase-levelalignments is present in a wide range of tasks,from multisource SMT to discriminative training.However, as far as we know this functionality alsois not included in existing SMT tools.In addition to the above mentioned advancedfeatures, THOT offers a set of standard features:?
Phrase-based SMT decoder.?
Scalable training and search algorithms.?
Client-server implementation.?
Miscellaneous SMT tools2 The THOT toolkitTHOT can be downloaded from GitHub2and isdistributed under the GNU Lesser General PublicLicense (LGPL).
It has been developed using C++and shell scripting.
The design principles that haveled the development process were:?
Modularity: The THOT code is organisedinto separate packages for each main func-tional component (training of phrase-basedand language models, decoding, etc.).
Eachcomponent can be treated as a stand-alonetool and does not rely on the rest of the code.?
Extensibility: The functionality provided byeach package is structured into classes.
Ab-stract classes are used when appropriate todefine the basic behaviour of the functionalcomponents of the toolkit, allowing us to eas-ily extend the toolkit functionality.?
Scalability: THOT is able to train statisti-cal models from corpora of an arbitrary size.Moreover, the toolkit takes advantage of par-allel and distributed computing to reduce thetime cost of the implemented algorithms.
Ad-ditionally, the parameters of the resultingmodels can be pruned or accessed from diskduring the decoding process.?
Portability: It is known to compile on Unix-like and Windows (using Cygwin) systems.In the rest of the paper we give additional detailsabout the different toolkit features that have beenmentioned above.2https://github.com/daormar/thot3 Computer-Aided TranslationCurrent MT systems are not able to produce ready-to-use texts.
Indeed, they usually require hu-man post-editing in order to achieve high-qualitytranslations.
This motivates an alternative applica-tion of MT in which the MT system collaborateswith the user to generate the output translations.This alternative application receives the name ofcomputer-assisted translation (CAT).CAT can be instantiated in different ways.
TheTHOT toolkit incorporates tools that are usefulin two different CAT instantations, namely, post-editing and interactive machine translation.3.1 Post-EditingPost-editing (PE) involves making corrections andamendments to machine generated translations(see (TAUS, 2010) for a detailed study).
In thePE scenario, the user only edits the output of theMT system without further system intervention.3.2 Interactive Machine TranslationIn the IMT framework (Foster et al., 1997;Langlais et al., 2002), the user obtains her desiredtranslations in a series of interactions with an MTsystem.
Specifically, the system initially generatesa translation without human intervention and af-ter that, the user validates a prefix of the transla-tion and introduce the next correct character of it.With this information, the IMT system returns thesuffix which best completes the user prefix.
Thisprocess is repeated until the user gets the sentenceshe has in mind.
In (Barrachina et al., 2009), SMTtechniques were embedded within the interactivetranslation environment.A common problem in IMT arises when theuser sets a prefix which cannot be explained by thestatistical models.
This problem requires the in-troduction of specific techniques to guarantee thatthe suffixes can be generated.
The majority of theIMT systems described in the literature use error-correcting techniques based on the concept of editdistance to solve the coverage problems.
Sucherror-correction techniques, although they are notincluded in the statistical formulation of the IMTprocess, are crucial to ensure that the suffixes com-pleting the user prefixes can be generated.THOT implements an alternative formalisationthat introduces stochastic error-correction modelsin the IMT statistical formulation.
Such a formal-isation was introduced in (Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, 2011)46and it generates the suffixes required in IMT bypartially aligning a prefix of the target hypotheseswith the user prefix.
Once the partial alignmentis determined, the suffix is given by the unalignedportion of the target sentence.Experiments to test the above mentioned IMTproposal were carried out using THOT.
The re-sults showed that the proposed IMT system out-performs the results of other state-of-the-start IMTsystems that are based on word graphs (see (Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, 2011) for more details).3.3 Integration with the CasMaCatWorkbenchTHOT can be combined with the CasMaCat Work-bench3that is being developed within the projectof the same name.
The CasMaCat Workbench of-fers novel types of assistance for human transla-tors, using advanced computer aided translationtechnology that includes PE and IMT.4 Incremental Learning for SMTThot incorporates techniques to incrementally up-date the parameters of the statistical models in-volved in the translation process.
Model updatescan be quickly executed in a sentence-wise man-ner allowing the system to be used in a real timescenario.
For this purpose, a log-linear SMTmodel where all its score components are incre-mentally updateable is defined.
The implementedproposal uses the incremental version of the EMalgorithm (Neal and Hinton, 1998) and the spe-cific details can be found in (Ortiz-Mart?
?nez et al.,2010; Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, 2011).Empirical results obtained with THOT and re-ported in (Ortiz-Mart?
?nez et al., 2010; Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, 2011) show that incremental learning al-lows to significantly reduce the user effort in IMTtasks with respect to that required by a conven-tional IMT system.Additionally, the incremental learning tech-niques provided by THOT are currently being usedin other sophisticated applications such as activelearning for SMT (Gonz?alez-Rubio et al., 2012).5 Generation of Phrase-BasedAlignmentsThe generation of phrase-level alignments is inter-esting due to its utility in a wide range of appli-3See installation instructions at http://www.casmacat.eu/index.php?n=Workbench.Workbenchcations, including multi-source SMT, Viterbi-likeestimation of phrase-based models or discrimina-tive training, just to name a few.A very straightforward technique can be pro-posed for finding the best phrase-alignment.Specifically, the search process only requires aregular SMT system which filters its phrase tablein order to obtain those target translations for thesource sentence that are compatible with the giventarget sentence.
Unfortunately, this technique hasno practical interest when applied on regular tasksdue to problems with unseen events.To overcome the above-mentioned difficulty, analternative technique that is able to consider everysource phrase of the source sentence as a possi-ble translation of every target phrase of the targetsentence can be defined.
The THOT toolkit imple-ments the proposal described in (Ortiz-Mart?
?nez etal., 2008), which combines a specific search al-gorithm with smoothing techniques to enable ef-ficient exploration of the set of possible phrase-alignments for a sentence pair.Phrase-based alignment quality was difficult toevaluate since there is not a gold standard for thistask.
One way to solve this problem consists in re-fining the phrase alignments to word alignmentsand compare them with those obtained in exist-ing shared tasks on word alignment evaluation.Results obtained with THOT reported in (Ortiz-Mart?
?nez et al., 2008) clearly show the efficacy ofthe implemented method.6 Standard FeaturesTHOT incorporates a number of standard featuresthat are present in existing translation tools.
Suchstandard features are briefly enumerated and de-scribed in the following paragraphs.Phrase-Based SMT Decoder The toolkit im-plements a state-of-the-art phrase-based SMT de-coder.
The decoder uses a log-linear model witha complete set of components similar to those im-plemented in other tools such as Moses.
Resultsreported in (Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, 2011) show that thetranslation quality obtained by THOT is compara-ble to that obtained by means of Moses.Scalable Training and Search AlgorithmsDue to the increasing availability of large train-ing corpora, it is necessary to implement scalabletraining and search algorithms.
THOT incorpo-rates tools to train statistical models from corpora47of an arbitrary size.
Such tools can take advan-tage of the availability of multiple processors orcomputer clusters.
The parameters of the result-ing models can be pruned or accessed from diskduring the decoding stage.Client-Server Implementation An importantpart of the functionality provided by the toolkit canbe accessed using a client-server model.
This is auseful feature to build web applications offeringSMT services.Miscellaneous SMT tools THOT reduces de-pendencies with third-party software by integrat-ing most critical components of a typical machinetranslation pipeline, from the estimation of phrase-based and language models to the generation oftranslations and their automatic evaluation.
Theestimation of word-alignment models using the in-cremental EM algorithm is also implemented bythe toolkit.7 ConclusionsTHOT is an open-source toolkit for SMT de-signed for its use in Unix-like and Windows sys-tems.
It has been developed using C++ and shellscripting, and it is released under LGPL license.THOT incorporates three advanced features thathave received little attention in previous publicly-available SMT tools, namely, interactive machinetranslation, incremental learning and generation ofphrase-based alignments.
Additionally, THOT alsoimplements standard features such as training ofstatistical models or decoding.
The functionalityof the toolkit has been empirically tested, showingits efficacy in different SMT-related tasks.AcknowledgmentsWork supported by the European Union 7thFramework Program (FP7/2007-2013) under theCasMaCat project (grant agreement no287576),by Spanish MICINN under grant TIN2012-31723,and by the Generalitat Valenciana under grantALMPR (Prometeo/2009/014).ReferencesS.
Barrachina, O. Bender, F. Casacuberta, J. Civera,E.
Cubel, S. Khadivi, A. L. Lagarda, H. Ney,J.
Tom?as, E. Vidal, and J. M. Vilar.
2009.
Statisticalapproaches to computer-assisted translation.
Com-putational Linguistics, 35(1):3?28.G.
Foster, P. Isabelle, and P. Plamondon.
1997.
Target-text mediated interactive machine translation.
Ma-chine Translation, 12(1):175?194.Jes?us Gonz?alez-Rubio, Daniel Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, andFrancisco Casacuberta.
2012.
Active learning forinteractive machine translation.
In Procs.
of the 13thConference of the European Chapter of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, pages 245?254.P.
Koehn, F. J. Och, and D. Marcu.
2003.
Statisti-cal phrase-based translation.
In Procs.
of the Hu-man Language Technology and North American As-sociation for Computational Linguistics Conference,pages 48?54, Edmonton, Canada, May.P.
Koehn, H. Hoang, A. Birch, C. Callison-Burch,M.
Federico, N. Bertoldi, B. Cowan, W. Shen,C.
Moran, R. Zens, C. Dyer, O. Bojar, A. Constantin,and E. Herbst.
2007.
Moses: Open source toolkitfor statistical machine translation.
In Procs.
of the45th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 177?180, Prague, CzechRepublic, June.P.
Langlais, G. Lapalme, and M. Loranger.
2002.Transtype: Development-evaluation cycles to boosttranslator?s productivity.
Machine Translation,15(4):77?98.S.
Mirking and N. Cancedda.
2013.
Assessing quickupdate methods of statistical translation models.
InProcs.
of International Workshop of Spoken Lan-guage Translation, pages 264?271, Heidelberg, Ger-many.R.M.
Neal and G.E.
Hinton.
1998.
A view of theEM algorithm that justifies incremental, sparse, andother variants.
In Procs.
of the NATO-ASI on Learn-ing in graphical models, pages 355?368, Norwell,MA, USA.D.
Ortiz, I.
Garc?
?a-Varea, and F. Casacuberta.
2005.Thot: a toolkit to train phrase-based statistical trans-lation models.
In Machine Translation Summit,pages 141?148, Phuket, Thailand, September.D.
Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, I.
Garc?
?a-Varea, and F. Casacuberta.2008.
Phrase-level alignment generation using asmoothed loglinear phrase-based statistical align-ment model.
In Procs.
of the European Associationfor Machine Translation.D.
Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, I.
Garc?
?a-Varea, and F. Casacuberta.2010.
Online learning for interactive statistical ma-chine translation.
In Procs.
of the 2010 Conferenceof the North American Chapter of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 546?554.D.
Ortiz-Mart??nez.
2011.
Advances in Fully-Automatic and Interactive Phrase-Based StatisticalMachine Translation.
Ph.D. thesis, UniversidadPolit?ecnica de Valencia.TAUS.
2010.
Postediting in practice.
a TAUS report.Technical report, March.48
