Proceedings of the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 59?63,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsMap Translation Using Geo-tagged Social MediaSunyou Lee, Taesung Lee, Seung-won HwangPOSTECH, Korea{sylque,elca4u,swhwang}@postech.eduAbstractThis paper discusses the problem of maptranslation, of servicing spatial entities inmultiple languages.
Existing work onentity translation harvests translation ev-idence from text resources, not consider-ing spatial locality in translation.
In con-trast, we mine geo-tagged sources for mul-tilingual tags to improve recall, and con-sider spatial properties of tags for transla-tion to improve precision.
Our approachempirically improves accuracy from 0.562to 0.746 using Taiwanese spatial entities.1 IntroductionA map is becoming an essential online service formobile devices, providing a current location andgenerating directions to spatial entities (SEs).
Al-though major map services aim to support a mapin more than 100 local languages, their currentsupport is often biased either to English or localmaps.
For example, Figure 1 contrasts richly pop-ulated Taiwanese entities (in the local language)whereas only some of those entities are translatedin English version.
Our goal is to translate richlypopulated SEs into another language, in the finergranularity such as restaurants.A baseline approach would be adoptingexisting work on entity transliteration work,which uses phonetic similarity, such as trans-lating ?Barack Obama?
into ?????????[Beilake?Aobama].
Another approach is usingautomatically-harvested or manually-built transla-tion resources, such as multilingual Gazetteer (or,SE dictionary1).
However, these resources areoften limited to well-known or large SEs, whichleads to translation with near-perfect precision butlow recall.1For example, http://tgnis.ascc.net provides SE transla-tion pairs.Moreover, blindly applying existing entitytranslation methods to SE translation leads to ex-tremely low accuracy.
For example, an SE ??????
should be translated into ?Shifen sta-tion?, where ????
is transliterated to [Shifen],whereas ????
is semantically translated basedon its meaning ?station?.
However, due to thiscomplex nature often observed in SE translation,an off-the-shelf translation service (e.g., GoogleTranslate) returns ?very station?2as an output.
Inaddition, SE names are frequently abbreviated sothat we cannot infer the meanings to semanticallytranslate them.
For instance, ?United Nations?
isoften abbreviated into ?UN?
and its translation isalso often abbreviated.
As a result, the abbrevia-tion in the two languages, (UN, ???
), sharesneither phonetic nor semantic similarity.To overcome these limitations, we propose toextract and leverage properties of SEs from a so-cial media, namely Flickr.
Especially, we ex-ploit co-occurrence of names in two different lan-guages.
For example, ????
co-occurs with itsEnglish translation ?Taipei?
as tags on the samephoto.
This is strong evidence that they are trans-lations of each other.
In addition to co-occurrence,we leverage spatial properties of SEs.
For ex-ample, among tags that frequently co-occur with???
?, such as ?Taipei?
and ?Canon?, ?Taipei?
is2As of Dec 26, 2013.Figure 1: A map of Taipei in English.
GoogleMaps, as of Oct 14, 201359Symbols DescriptionC A set of all Chinese spatial entitiesc A Chinese spatial entity, c ?
Ce An English entityp A photoD PhotosDcPhotos with cDePhotos with eEca set of English tags from DcGca set of GPS coordinates from DcGea set of GPS coordinates from DeTable 1: Overview of symbolsmore likely to be its correct translation becausethe spatial distributions of the two tags are simi-larly skewed in the same area.
Our approach sig-nificantly improves the F1-score (0.562 to 0.746),compared to an off-the-shelf translators.2 Overall FrameworkWe provide the framework of our proposedmethod using predefined symbols (Table 1).
Weconsider a scenario of translating each SE c in aset of all SEs C in a Chinese map into English sothat we obtain an English map3.STEP 1.
Finding a set Dc: We crawl a photoset D with tags from Flickr.
We consider each ofthe tags as an entity.
Given an SE c ?
C, we find asetDc?
D. For each photo in Dc, we obtain a setof tags in multiple languages and GPS coordinatesof the photo as translation evidence (Table 2).STEP 2.
Collecting candidate English tags:To obtain translation candidates of c, we build aset Ecof English tags that co-occur with c, and aset De?
D of photos for each e ?
Ec.STEP 3.
Calculating matching score w(c, e):For an English candidate e ?
Ec, we calculate thematching score between c and e, and translate cinto e with the highest w(c, e) score.
We describethe details of computing w(c, e) in Section 3.3We use an example of translating from Chinese to En-glish for illustration, but we stress that our work straightfor-wardly extends if multilingual tags of these two languages aresufficient.Photos Chinese tag English tagp1???
Taipei, The Queen?sHead, foodp2??
love river, food, park,dogp3??,???
Yehliu, Taipei, foodp4?
?, ???,??
?The Queen?s Head,Taipei, restaurantp5???
Taipei, Tamsui river,dog, foodTable 2: Structure of crawled photos D = {p1, p2,p3, p4, p5}e The Queen?s Head TaipeiDe{p1, p4} {p1, p3, p4, p5}CF (c, e) (FB) 2 3TS(c, e) 0 -0.3w(c, e) (SB) 0 -0.9Table 3: SB vs. FB: Translating c = ???
intoe ?
E???
where D???
= {p1, p3, p4}3 Matching Score3.1 Naive Approach: Frequency-basedTranslation (FB)A naive solution for map translation is to use co-occurrence of multilingual tags.
For example, if aChinese tag ?????
frequently co-occurs with anEnglish tag ?The Queen?s Head?, we can translate?????
into ?The Queen?s Head?.
Specifically,for a given Chinese SE c and a candidate Englishtag e, we define co-occurring frequency CF (c, e).Definition.
Co-occurring Frequency CF (c, e).Co-occurring frequencyCF (c, e) is the number ofphotos in which c and e are co-tagged,CF (c, e) = |Dc?De|, (1)where Dcand Deare photos with a Chinese SE cand an English tag e, respectively.We compute CF (c, e) for all candidates in e ?Ecand rank them.
Then, FB translates c into ewith the highest CF (c, e) score.
However, FBcannot address the following two challenges thatoccur due to tag sparseness.?
C1 : Large regions such as ?Taiwan?, ?Taipei?
(Section 3.2)?
C2 : Non-SEs such as ?dog?, ?food?
(Section3.3)603.2 Overcoming C1: Scarcity-biasedTranslation (SB)Users tend to tag photos with both a specific SEand large administrative regions such as ?Taiwan?and ?Taipei?, which makes FB score of large re-gions higher than the proper one.
For exam-ple, ?Taipei?
is tagged in most photos in D (Ta-ble 2); therefore, CF (??
?, Taipei) larger thanCF (??
?, The Queen?s Head) (Table 3).To reduce the effect of large regions, we intro-duce a new feature to give high scores for specificSEs (e.g., ?The Queen?s Head?).
We observe thata large region?s tag is associated with many pho-tos in D ?
Dc, whereas a scarce but useful tagis particularly tagged in Dc.
We consider|De||D?Dc|to measure how many photos have e without c.Therefore,|De||D?Dc|increases as e frequently ap-pears where c does not.
In contrast, if e appearsmostly with c, the ratio decreases.
Taking inverseof the ratio to give higher score when e appearsmostly with c, we define tag scarcity TS(c, e) andapply it to the candidate ranking function.Definition.
Tag scarcity TS(c, e).
Given an SEc and a candidate English tag e ?
Ec, the tagscarcity is defined asTS(c, e) = log |D ?Dc|/|De|.
(2)Definition.
Scarcity-biased Matching Scorew(c, e).
Given an SE c and a candidate Englishtag e ?
Ec, the matching score between c and e isw(c, e) = CF (c, e) ?
TS(c, e).
(3)To illustrate the effect of SB with our run-ning example (Table 2), we compare ?The Queen?sHead?
to ?Taipei?
for translating ?????
(Ta-ble 3).
FB gives a higher score to ?Taipei?
thanto the correct translation ?The Queen?s Head?.
Incontrast, by reflecting TS, SB correctly concludesthat ?The Queen?s Head?
is the best match.Apart from SB, we can also leverage an ad-ditional resource such as an administrative hier-archy, if exists, to blacklist some large regions?names from Ec.
By first translating larger re-gions and excluding them, the precision for trans-lating small SEs can increase.
For instance, wetranslate a country ???
(Taiwan)?
earlier than acity ???
(Taipei)?.
Then, when translating ???
?, even though CF (?
?, Taiwan) is higher thanCF (?
?, Taipei), we ignore ?Taiwan?
in E??
be-cause it is already matched with ???
?.3.3 Overcoming C2: Pruning Non-SEs (PN)We prune non-SEs such as ?food?
based on spatiallocality of a tag.
We observe that the GPS coor-dinates Geof photos with an SE tag e tend to bemore concentrated in a specific region than thoseof photos with a non-SE.
For instance, comparinga non-SE ?food?
and an SE ?The Queen?s Head?,the GPS coordinates in Gfoodare more widespreadall over Taiwan than those in GThe Queen?s Head.We leverage the coordinates of a distant SEpair.
For example, two spatially far SEs ???(Taipei)?
and ???
(Taitung)?
compose a distantSE pair.
Because both SEs are unlikely to betagged in a single photo, an English tag that co-occurs with both of them would be a non-SE.Formally, we define two Chinese SEs c1and c2as a distant SE pair if Gc1?Gc2= ?, and M as aset of all distant SE pairs among C?C.
We judgethat an English tag e is a non-SE if Geintersectswith both Gc1and Gc2for a distant pair c1andc2.
Formally, an English tag e is non-SE if thefollowing equation PN(e) is nonzero.PN(e) =?
(c1,c2)?M|Gc1?Ge| ?
|Gc2?Ge|.
(4)4 Evaluation4.1 Experimental SettingPhoto Data and Ground Truth: We crawled227,669 photos taken in Taipei from Flickr, whichalso provided GPS coordinates of photos.
We tooka setD of 148,141 photos containing both Chineseand English tags and manually labelled 200 goldstandard Chinese-English SE pairs whose namesappeared together in at least one photo in D.Administrative Hierarchy: An administrativehierarchy was obtained from Taiwan Geographi-cal Names Information System4.Baselines: We chose baselines available formany languages except for the gazetteer and ex-cluded methods that used specific textual corpora.?
Phonetic Similarity (PH) (Kim et al., 2013)?
Off-the-shelf Translator: Google Translate5,Bing Translator6?
Taiwanese-English Gazetteer (official SEtranslation4)4http://tgnis.ascc.net/.
Its latest modificationhas done on August 23, 2013.5http://translate.google.co.kr/6http://www.bing.com/translator61Chinese SE SB+PN PH Google Translate Bing Translator Gazetteer[Transliteration]????
To House Astrid Rabbit Restaurant Hare House ?
[Tuzi Canting]?????
Denwell Restaurant Taipei Restaurants Dianhua Flagship Classic China ?
[Dianhua Gijianguan] Museum Flagship CenterTable 4: Example translation from our method and the baselines (Correct translations are boldfaced.
)Method P R F1Transliteration .463 .463 .463Google Translate .562 .562 .562Bing Translator .425 .425 .425Taiwanese-English Gazetteer .960 .485 .645Table 5: P, R, and F1 of baselinesMeasures: We measured precision (P), recall(R), F1-Score (F1), and mean reciprocal rank(MRR) where MRR =1|P |?
(c,e0)?P1rank(c,e0),for which P is a set of gold standard pairs (c, e0)of a Chinese SE c and its correct translation e0, andrank(c, e0) indicates the rank of w(c, e0) amongall w(c, e) s.t.
e ?
Ec.4.2 Experimental ResultsComparison to Baselines: The proposed ap-proach (SB + PN) with or without the administra-tive hierarchy provided higher R and F1 than didthe baseline methods (Table 5, 6).The baseline methods showed generally low P,R, and F1.
Especially, the gazetteer producedhigh precision, but poor recall because it could nottranslate lesser-known SEs such as ?????
(ToHouse)?
and ??????
(Denwell Restaurant)?
(Table 4).Effect of SB and PN: We experimented on theeffect of the combinations of the features (Ta-ble 6).
Using all the features FB+SB+PN withhierarchy, which translated the upper level of thehierarchy with FB and the lower level with SB,showed the best effectiveness.
Simple FB gaveboth low precision and very low recall regardlessof whether we used the hierarchy.
Replacing FBwith SB yielded both higher F1 and higher MRR.PN increased F1, especially greatly when it wasused with SB or the hierarchy because PN filteredout different types of noises, non-SEs.
Apply-ing PN, we classified 361 non-SEs and 6 SEs asnoises in total.
Despite some misclassifications, itMethod P R F1 MRRFB .215 .215 .215 .439FB + PN .220 .220 .220 .454SB .640 .640 .640 .730SB + PN .680 .
670 .675 .752(a) Without administrative hierarchyMethod P R F1 MRRFB .515 .515 .515 .641FB + PN .624 .615 .620 .730SB .655 .655 .655 .733SB + PN .706 .695 .700 .763FB + SB + PN .751 .740 .746 .806(b) With given hierarchyTable 6: Effect of FB, SB, PN, and the hierarchyimproved the overall accuracy by ignoring highlyranked non-SEs such as ?dog?
and ?food?.5 ConclusionWe propose a scalable map translator that usesa geo-tagged corpus from social media to minetranslation evidence to translate between Englishand maps in local languages.
Our approach lever-ages both co-occurrence of the SE tags in Chineseand English and their scarcity and spatial property.Our approach can translate small or emerging spa-tial entities such as restaurants, which major mapservices cannot support currently.
We empiricallyvalidated that our approach provided higher P, R,F1, and MRR than the existing methods includingpopular off-the-shelf translation services.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported by the MSIP (TheMinistry of Science, ICT and Future Planning),Korea and Microsoft Research, under IT/SWCreative research program supervised by theNIPA(National IT Industry Promotion Agency).
(NIPA-2013-H0503-13-1009).62ReferencesJinhan Kim, Seung-won Hwang, Long Jiang, Y Song,and Ming Zhou.
2013.
Entity translation miningfrom comparable corpora: Combining graph map-ping with corpus latent features.
IEEE Transactionson Knowledge and Data Engineering, 25(8):1787?1800.63
