Proceedings of the Demonstrations at the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 9?12,Gothenburg, Sweden, April 26-30 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsXLike Project Language Analysis ServicesXavier Carreras?, Llu?
?s Padr?o?, Lei Zhang?, Achim Rettinger?, Zhixing Li1,Esteban Garc?
?a-Cuesta,?Zeljko Agi?c?, Bo?zo Bekavac/, Blaz Fortuna?, Tadej?Stajner??
Universitat Polit`ecnica de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain.
 iSOCO S.A. Madrid, Spain./ University of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.
?
University of Potsdam, Germany.?
Jo?zef Stefan Institute, Ljubljana, Slovenia.
1 Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.?
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Karlsruhe, Germany.AbstractThis paper presents the linguistic analysisinfrastructure developed within the XLikeproject.
The main goal of the imple-mented tools is to provide a set of func-tionalities supporting the XLike main ob-jectives: Enabling cross-lingual servicesfor publishers, media monitoring or de-veloping new business intelligence appli-cations.
The services cover seven majorand minor languages: English, German,Spanish, Chinese, Catalan, Slovenian, andCroatian.
These analyzers are providedas web services following a lightweigthSOA architecture approach, and they arepublically accessible and shared throughMETA-SHARE.11 IntroductionProject XLike2goal is to develop technology ableto gather documents in a variety of languages andgenres (news, blogs, tweets, etc.)
and to extractlanguage-independent knowledge from them, inorder to provide new and better services to pub-lishers, media monitoring, and business intelli-gence.
Thus, project use cases are provided bySTA (Slovenian Press Agency) and Bloomberg, aswell as New York Times as an associated partner.Research partners in the project are Jo?zef Ste-fan Institute (JSI), Karlsruhe Institute of Technol-ogy (KIT), Universitat Polit`ecnica de Catalunya(UPC), University of Zagreb (UZG), and TsinghuaUniversity (THU).
The Spanish company iSOCOis in charge of integration of all components de-veloped in the project.This paper deals with the language technologydeveloped within the project XLike to convert in-1accessible and shared here means that the services arepublicly callable, not that the code is open-source.http://www.meta-share.eu2http://www.xlike.orgput documents into a language-independent rep-resentation that afterwards enables knowledge ag-gregation.To achieve this goal, a bench of linguistic pro-cessing pipelines is devised as the first step in thedocument processing flow.
Then, a cross-lingualsemantic annotation method, based on Wikipediaand Linked Open Data (LOD), is applied.
Thesemantic annotation stage enriches the linguisticanaylsis with links to knowledge bases for differ-ent languages, or links to language independentrepresentations.2 Linguistic AnalyzersApart from basic state-of-the-art tokenizers, lem-matizers, PoS/MSD taggers, and NE recogniz-ers, each pipeline requires deeper processors ableto build the target language-independent seman-tic representantion.
For that, we rely on threesteps: dependency parsing, semantic role label-ing and word sense disambiguation.
These threeprocesses, combined with multilingual ontologi-cal resouces such as different WordNets and Pred-icateMatrix (L?opez de la Calle et al., 2014), alexical semantics resource combining WordNet,FrameNet, and VerbNet, are the key to the con-struction of our semantic representation.2.1 Dependency ParsingWe use graph-based methods for dependencyparsing, namely, MSTParser3(McDonald et al.,2005) is used for Chinese and Croatian, andTreeler4is used for the other languages.
Treeler isa library developed by the UPC team that imple-ments several statistical methods for tagging andparsing.We use these tools in order to train dependencyparsers for all XLike languages using standardavailable treebanks.3http://sourceforge.net/projects/mstparser4http://treeler.lsi.upc.edu92.2 Semantic Role LabelingAs with syntactic parsing, we are developing SRLmethods with the Treeler library.
In order to trainmodels, we will use the treebanks made availableby the CoNLL-2009 shared task, which provideddata annotated with predicate-argument relationsfor English, Spanish, Catalan, German and Chi-nese.
No treebank annotated with semantic rolesexists for Slovene or Croatian.
A prototype ofSRL has been integrated in all pipelines (exceptthe Slovene and Croatian pipelines).
The methodimplemented follows a pipeline architecture de-scribed in (Llu?
?s et al., 2013).2.3 Word Sense DisambiguationWord sense disambiguation is performed for alllanguages with a publicly available WordNet.
Thisincludes all languages in the project except Chi-nese.
The goal of WSD is to map specific lan-guages to a common semantic space, in this case,WN synsets.
Thanks to existing connections be-tween WN and other resources, SUMO and Open-CYC sense codes are also output when available.Thanks to PredicateMatrix, the obtained con-cepts can be projected to FrameNet, achieving anormalization of the semantic roles produced bythe SRL (which are treebank-dependent, and thus,not the same for all languages).
The used WSDengine is the UKB (Agirre and Soroa, 2009) im-plementation provided by FreeLing (Padr?o andStanilovsky, 2012).2.4 Frame ExtractionThe final step is to convert all the gathered linguis-tic information into a semantic representation.
Ourmethod is based on the notion of frame: a seman-tic frame is a schematic representation of a situ-ation involving various participants.
In a frame,each participant plays a role.
There is a direct cor-respondence between roles in a frame and seman-tic roles; namely, frames correspond to predicates,and participants correspond to the arguments ofthe predicate.
We distinguish three types of par-ticipants: entities, words, and frames.Entities are nodes in the graph connected toreal-world entities as described in Section 3.Words are common words or concepts, linked togeneral ontologies such as WordNet.
Frames cor-respond to events or predicates described in thedocument.
Figure 1 shows an example sentence,the extracted frames and their arguments.It is important to note that frames are a moregeneral representation than SVO-triples.
WhileSVO-triples represent a binary relation betweentwo participants, frames can represent n-ary rela-tions (e.g.
predicates with more than two argu-ments, or with adjuncts).
Frames also allow repre-senting the sentences where one of the argumentsis in turn a frame (as is the case with plan to makein the example).Finally, although frames are extracted at sen-tence level, the resulting graphs are aggregatedin a single semantic graph representing the wholedocument via a very simple coreference resolutionbased on detecting named entity aliases and repe-titions of common nouns.
Future improvementsinclude using an state-of-the-art coreference reso-lution module for languages where it is available.3 Cross-lingual Semantic AnnotationThis step adds further semantic annotations on topof the results obtained by linguistic processing.All XLike languages are covered.
The goal isto map word phrases in different languages intothe same semantic interlingua, which consists ofresources specified in knowledge bases such asWikipedia and Linked Open Data (LOD) sources.Cross-lingual semantic annotation is performed intwo stages: (1) first, candidate concepts in theknowledge base are linked to the linguistic re-sources based on a newly developed cross-linguallinked data lexica, called xLiD-Lexica, (2) nextthe candidate concepts get disambiguated basedon the personalized PageRank algorithm by utiliz-ing the structure of information contained in theknowledge base.The xLiD-Lexica is stored in RDF format andcontains about 300 million triples of cross-lingualgroundings.
It is extracted from Wikipedia dumpsof July 2013 in English, German, Spanish, Cata-lan, Slovenian and Chinese, and based on thecanonicalized datasets of DBpedia 3.8 contain-ing triples extracted from the respective Wikipediawhose subject and object resource have an equiv-alent English article.4 Web Service Architecture ApproachThe different language functionalities are imple-mented following the service oriented architec-ture (SOA) approach defined in the project XLike.Therefore all the pipelines (one for each language)have been implemented as web services and may10Figure 1: Graphical representation of frames in the sentence Acme, based in New York, now plans tomake computer and electronic products.be requested to produce different levels of analy-sis (e.g.
tokenization, lemmatization, NERC, pars-ing, relation extraction).
This approach is very ap-pealing due to the fact that it allows to treat ev-ery language independently and execute the wholelanguage analysis process at different threads orcomputers allowing an easier parallelization (e.g.using external high perfomance platforms such asAmazon Elastic Compute Cloud EC25) as needed.Furthermore it also provides independent develop-ment lifecycles for each language which is crucialin this type of research projects.
Recall that theseweb services can be deployed locally or remotely,maintaining the option of using them in a stand-alone configuration.The main structure for each one of the pipelinesis described below:?
Spanish, English, and Catalan: all mod-ules are based on FreeLing (Padr?o andStanilovsky, 2012) and Treeler.?
German: German shallow processing isbased on OpenNLP6, Stanford POS taggerand NE extractor (Toutanova et al., 2003;Finkel et al., 2005).
Dependency parsing,semantic role labeling, word sense disam-biguation, and SRL-based frame extractionare based on FreeLing and Treeler.?
Slovene: Slovene shallow processing is pro-vided by JSI Enrycher7(?Stajner et al., 2010),which consists of the Obeliks morphosyntac-tic analysis library (Gr?car et al., 2012), theLemmaGen lemmatizer (Jur?si?c et al., 2010)and a CRF-based entity extractor (?Stajner etal., 2012).
Dependency parsing, word sense5http://aws.amazon.com/ec2/6http://opennlp.apache.org7http://enrycher.ijs.sidisambiguation are based on FreeLing andTreeler.
Frame extraction is rule-based sinceno SRL corpus is available for Slovene.?
Croatian: Croatian shallow processing isbased on proprietary tokenizer, POS/MSD-tagging and lemmatisaton system (Agi?c etal., 2008), NERC system (Bekavac andTadi?c, 2007) and dependency parser (Agi?c,2012).
Word sense disambiguation is basedon FreeLing.
Frame extraction is rule-basedsince no SRL corpus is available for Croatian.?
Chinese: Chinese shallow and deep process-ing is based on a word segmentation compo-nent ICTCLAS8and a semantic dependencyparser trained on CSDN corpus.
Then, rule-based frame extraction is performed (no SRLcorpus nor WordNet are available for Chi-nese).Each language analysis service is able to pro-cess thousands of words per second when per-forming shallow analysis (up to NE recognition),and hundreds of words per second when produc-ing the semantic representation based on full anal-ysis.
Moreover, the web service architecture en-ables the same server to run a different thread foreach client, thus taking advantage of multiproces-sor capabilities.The components of the cross-lingual semanticannotation stage are:?
xLiD-Lexica: The cross-lingual groundingsin xLiD-Lexica are translated into RDF dataand are accessible through a SPARQL end-point, based on OpenLink Virtuoso9as theback-end database engine.8http://ictclas.org/9http://virtuoso.openlinksw.com/11?
Semantic Annotation: The cross-lingual se-mantic annotation service is based on thexLiD-Lexica for entity mention recognitionand the JUNG Framework10for graph-baseddisambiguation.5 ConclusionWe presented the web service based architectureused in XLike FP7 project to linguistically ana-lyze large amounts of documents in seven differ-ent languages.
The analysis pipelines perform ba-sic processing as tokenization, PoS-tagging, andnamed entity extraction, as well as deeper analy-sis such as dependency parsing, word sense disam-biguation, and semantic role labelling.
The resultof these linguistic analyzers is a semantic graphcapturing the main events described in the docu-ment and their core participants.On top of that, the cross-lingual semantic an-notation component links the resulting linguisticresources in one language to resources in a knowl-edge bases in any other language or to languageindependent representations.
This semantic repre-sentation is later used in XLike for document min-ing purposes such as enabling cross-lingual ser-vices for publishers, media monitoring or devel-oping new business intelligence applications.The described analysis services are currentlyavailable via META-SHARE as callable RESTfulservices.AcknowledgmentsThis work was funded by the European Unionthrough project XLike (FP7-ICT-2011-288342).References?Zeljko Agi?c, Marko Tadi?c, and Zdravko Dovedan.2008.
Improving part-of-speech tagging accuracyfor Croatian by morphological analysis.
Informat-ica, 32(4):445?451.
?Zeljko Agi?c.
2012.
K-best spanning tree dependencyparsing with verb valency lexicon reranking.
In Pro-ceedings of COLING 2012: Posters, pages 1?12,Mumbai, India, December.
The COLING 2012 Or-ganizing Committee.Eneko Agirre and Aitor Soroa.
2009.
Personalizingpagerank for word sense disambiguation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 12th conference of the Europeanchapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (EACL-2009), Athens, Greece.10Java Universal Network/Graph Frameworkhttp://jung.sourceforge.net/Bo?zo Bekavac and Marko Tadi?c.
2007.
Implementa-tion of Croatian NERC system.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Balto-Slavonic Natural LanguageProcessing (BSNLP2007), Special Theme: Informa-tion Extraction and Enabling Technologies, pages11?18.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Jenny Rose Finkel, Trond Grenager, and ChristopherManning.
2005.
Incorporating non-local informa-tion into information extraction systems by gibbssampling.
In Proceedings of the 43rd Annual Meet-ing on Association for Computational Linguistics(ACL?05), pages 363?370.Miha Gr?car, Simon Krek, and Kaja Dobrovoljc.
2012.Obeliks: statisti?cni oblikoskladenjski ozna?cevalnikin lematizator za slovenski jezik.
In Zbornik Osmekonference Jezikovne tehnologije, Ljubljana, Slove-nia.Matjaz Jur?si?c, Igor Mozeti?c, Tomaz Erjavec, and NadaLavra?c.
2010.
Lemmagen: Multilingual lemmati-sation with induced ripple-down rules.
Journal ofUniversal Computer Science, 16(9):1190?1214.Xavier Llu?
?s, Xavier Carreras, and Llu?
?s M`arquez.2013.
Joint arc-factored parsing of syntactic and se-mantic dependencies.
Transactions of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, 1:219?230.Maddalen L?opez de la Calle, Egoitz Laparra, and Ger-man Rigau.
2014.
First steps towards a predicatematrix.
In Proceedings of the Global WordNet Con-ference (GWC 2014), Tartu, Estonia, January.
GWA.Ryan McDonald, Koby Crammer, and FernandoPereira.
2005.
Online large-margin training ofdependency parsers.
In Proceedings of the 43rdAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL?05), pages 91?98, Ann Ar-bor, Michigan, June.Llu?
?s Padr?o and Evgeny Stanilovsky.
2012.
Freeling3.0: Towards wider multilinguality.
In Proceedingsof the Language Resources and Evaluation Confer-ence (LREC 2012), Istanbul, Turkey, May.
ELRA.Tadej?Stajner, Delia Rusu, Lorand Dali, Bla?z Fortuna,Dunja Mladeni?c, and Marko Grobelnik.
2010.
Aservice oriented framework for natural language textenrichment.
Informatica, 34(3):307?313.Kristina Toutanova, Dan Klein, Christopher D. Man-ning, and Yoram Singer.
2003.
Feature-rich part-of-speech tagging with a cyclic dependency network.In Proceedings of the 2003 Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Lin- guistics on Human Language Technology(NAACL?03).Tadej?Stajner, Toma?z Erjavec, and Simon Krek.2012.
Razpoznavanje imenskih entitet v slovenskembesedilu.
In In Proceedings of 15th InternationMulticonference on Information Society - JezikovneTehnologije, Ljubljana, Slovenia.12
