LEARNING TRANSLATION SKILLS WITH A KNOWLEDGE-BASED TUTOR:FRENCH-ITALIAN CONJUNCTIONS IN CONTEXTStefano A. CerriDipartimento di Infomnatica, Universit~ di Pisa56100 Pisa, ItalyMarie-France MergerDipartimento di Lingue e Letterature Romanze, Universit~ di Pisa56100 Pisa, ItalyABSTRACTThis pape~ describes an "intelligent" tutor offoreign language concepts and skills based uponstate-of-the-art research in Intelligent reachingSystems and Computational Linguistics.The tutor is part of a large R&D project in ITSwhich resulted in a system (called DART~ for the de-sign and development of intelligent teaching dialo-gues on PLATO I and in a program (called ELISA~for teaching foreign language conjunctions in con-text.
ELISA was able to teach a few conjunctions inEnglish, Dutch and Italian.
The research reportedhere extends ELISA to a complete set of conjunctionsin Italian and French.I.
INTRODUCTIONIn the framework of a large research and deve-lopment project - called DART - concerned with theconstruction of an environment for the design oflarge scale Intelligent Teaching Systems (ITS~, aprototype ITS - called ELISA - was developed whichteaches words (conjunctions~ of a foreign languagein context (Cerri & Breuker, 1980, 1981; Breuker &Cerri, 1982~.The DART system is an authoring environmentbased on the formalism of ATNs for the representa-tion of the procedural part of the teaching dialogueand on Semantic Networks for the representation ofthe conceptual and linguistic structures.
The mainachievement of DART was the integration of tradi-tional Computer Assisted Learning (CAL~ facilities- such as the ones available in the PLATO system -in an Artificial Intelligence framework, thus offer-........The DART system on PLATO is the result of a jointeffort of the University of Pisa (I~ and the Uni-versity of Amsterdam (NL~ and its property rightsare reserved.
It can be distributed for experimen-tation and research.This work was ;artially financed by a grant ofthe GRIS group of the Italian National ResearchCouncil.ing authors a friendly environment for a smooth CAL- ITS transition when they design and develop tea-ching programs.ELISA was a testbed of the ideas underlyingthe DART project and at the same time a simple, butoperational, "intelligent" foreign language teacheracting on a small subset of English, Dutch and Ita-lian conjunctions.
The sample dialogues of ELISAwere chosen intentionally to exemplify, in theclearest way, issues such as the diagnostic of mis-conceptions in the use of foreign language conjunc-tions, which were addressed by the research.
Inparticular, the assumption was made that a verysimple representation of the correct knowledgeneeded for using f.l.
conjunctions in context wouldhave been sufficient to model the whole subjectmatter as well as the incorrect behaviour of thestudent.Owing to its prototypical and experimentalcharacter, ELISA was not ready for concrete, largescale experimentation on any pair of the languagesmentioned.The research described in this report has beencarried out with the concrete goal of making ELISAa realistic "intelligent" automatic foreign langu-age teacher.
In fact, we wanted to verify whetherthe simple representation of the knowledge in asemantic network was sufficient to represent a com-plete set of transformations from the first intothe second language and vice versa.Italian and French were chosen.
A completecontrastive representation of the use of conjunc-tions in meaningful contexts was produced.The set of these unambiguous, meaningful con-texts - about 600 - defines the use of the conjunc-tions - about 40 for each language.
Their correctuse can be classified according to 60 distinguishing"concepts" which provide for all potential trans~la -tions.The classification was done on an empiricalground and is not based on any linguistic rule ortheory.
This was actually a contrastive bottom-upanalysis of the use of conjunctions in Italian and133French.The specific choice of the teaching materialhighlighted many (psyeho~linguistic and computa-tional problems related to the compatibility bet-ween the design constraints of ELISA on the onehand and the subtleties of the full use of naturallanguage fragments in translations on the other.In particular, the complexity of the full networkof conjunctions, concepts and contexts in the twolanguages suggests a large set of possible miscon-ceptions to be discovered from the (partially> in-correct behaviour of the students but only thesubset of plausible ones should guide the diagnos-tic dialogue.In the following, we briefly present the tea-ching strategy of ELISA and some examples of dia-logue in order to introduce the problems referredabove and the solutions we propose.The full set of data is available in Merger& Cerri (19837 and a subset of it as well as amore extended description of this work can befound in Cerri & Merger (1982~.
A detailed des-cription of DART and ELISA is a work in prepara-tion.Notice that for the development of this know-ledge base no other expertise was required thanthat of a professional teacher, once the principlesare provided by AI experts.
This is a proof of thepotential power of AI representations in education-al settings and in projects of natural languagetranslation.Practically, our program is one of the fewIntelligent Systems available in the field of Fo-reign Language Teaching and usable on a large scalefor Computer Assisted Learning.II ELISA : A RATHER INTELLIGENT TUTOROF FOREIGN LANGUAGE WORDSA.
The Purpose of ELISAELISA teaches a student to disambiguate con-junctions in a foreign language by means of a dia-logue.
The purpose of ELISA's dialogue is to builda representation of the student's behaviour whichcoincides with the correct representation of theknowledge needed to translate words in a foreignlanguage in context.ELISA has a student model, which is updatedeach time the student answers a question.
Accordingto the classification of the answer, and the phaseof the dialogue, ELISA selects one or more newquestions to be put to the student in order toachieve its purpose.The mother and the foreign language can beassociated to the source and the target language(s.l.
and t.l.~ respectively, or vice versa: thesystem is symmetric.The main phases of ELISA are Presentation andAssessment.B.
The Presentation PhaseThe presentation phase is traditional.
Theteacher constructs an exhaustive set of QuestionTypes from the subject matter represented in aknowledge network containing conjunctions and con-texts in two languages as well as concepts adequa-tely linked to conjunctions and contexts (see forinstance Figs.l and 2~.
These are pairs: conjunc-tion in the source language/conceptual meaning.For each conjunction in the s.l.
and each conceptpossibly associated to it a question type is gene-rated.For each question type, a classification ofthe conjunctions in the target language may beconstructed.
This classification is a partition ofthe t.l.
conjunctions into three classes, namelyexpected right, expected wrong and unexpectedwrong.
The Expected Right conjunctions are all t.i.
conjunctions which can be associated to the con-ceptual meaning of the question type.
The ExpectedWrong conjunctions are all t.l.
conjunctions whichcan be a correct translation of the s.l.
conjunc-tion of the question type, but in a ~onceptualmeaning different from that of the question typeconsidered.
The remaining conjunctions in the t.l.are classified as Unexpected Wrong: they do nothave any relation in the knowledge basewith the s.l.
conjunction, nor with the concept inthe question type considered.Notice that "concepts" are defined pragmati-cally i.e.
in terms of the purpose of the represen-tation which is to teach students to translate cor-rectly conjunctions in context.
This defintion ofconcepts is not based on any (psycho~linguistictheory or phenomenon.
In fact, we looked for con-texts which have a one-to-one correspondence withconcepts, so that for each context all the conjunc-tions associated to its specific conceptual mean-ing can be valid completions of the sentence, inboth languages.The question is generated from the questiontype by selecting (randomly~ a context linked tothe concept of the question type, and inserting theconjunction of the question type.
One of the (equi-valent~ translations of the context into targetlanguage is also presented to the student.
The stu-dent is required to insert the conjunction in thetarget language which correctly completes the sen-tence.When the student makes an error, the correct-ion consists simply in informing him/her of thecorrect answer(s~.
This feedback strategy shouldhave the effect of teaching the student the correct134associations and is similar to that used in most CALprograms.In contrast to most CAL programs, in ELISAquestions are generated at execution time from in-formation stored in the knowledge network, Theclassification of answers is computed dynamicallyfrom the knowledge network, it is not a simple lo-cal pattern matching procedure.C.
The  Assessment  PhaseThe purpose of the assessment phase is to ve-rify the acquisition of knowledge and skills onthe part of the student during the presentationphase.
It includes the diagnosis and remedy of mis-conceptions.Questions are generated as in the presentationphase, but in case of a consistent incorrect answer- a bug (see for instance Brown & van Lehn, 19801,- a complete dialogue with the student is performedin order to test the hypothesis that the bug arisesfrom a whole set of errors grouped into one or moremisconceptions.The procedure operates briefly as follows:each bug invokesa.
one concept called Source Misconcept which re-presents the meaning of the context of thequestion put to the student (e.g., conditional,temporal, etc.1, andb.
one or more concepts called Target Misconceptswhich represent the possible meanings of theconjunction used by the student in the answer.The set of target misconcepts does not includethe source misconcept by definition of the bug.For each pair of source/target misconcept,question types are generated and the questions arein turn put to the student.
The selection of ade-quate question types is done on the basis of thePossible misconception(sl; a more skilled selectionshould include constraints ahout the Plausible (ex-pectedl misconceptions, instead of considering ex-haustively all the theoretical combinations.
Thisis a maSn issue of further empirical research, aswill be remarked later.During each of these diagnostic dialogues, itis possible that new bugs, i.e.
bugs not relatedto the source and target misconcept, are discovered.When this is the case, these bugs are s=ored in abug stack.
Once the original misconception has beendiagnosed and remedied, each bug in the bug stacktriggers (recursivelyl the same diagnostic proce-dure.Again, a more skilled stra=egy for the order-ing of bugs to be diagnosed and remedied could beeasily designed, on the basis of empirical evidencedrawn by experiments on studentfs behaviour.Finally, let us discuss in more detail the e-valuation of the student model as it was built ac-cording to a diagnostic dialogue.
By "student mo-del", we mean the set of "misconception matrixes"each related to the source and a target misconcept,and related to two or more conjunctions.As these matrixes may, in principle, present alarge variety of different patterns, and even allowfor variations in their dimensions, it would be arather complex task to design a minimal set of ty-pical erroneous patterns unless some reduction pro-cedure is applied.So, we first compress the misconception matri-xes into "confusion kernels" which are (2x3~ matri -xes, then we compare the kernels with standardpatterns of stereotypical misconceptions.
Once thematch is found, the diagnostic phase is consideredended, and a remedy phase is begun.The remedy consists in informing the studentof the "nature of the misconception", i.e.
the in-terpretation of the confusion kernel.
This inter-pretation is possible by applying some (psychollin-guistic criteria.
In the following section, someof these Criteria will be outlined in order to ex-plain the behaviour of ELISA in the examples ofdialogue presented.In other words, the remedy is not a paraphraseof the history of the dialogue during the diagnosis,but an interpretation of the significant aspects ofthat dialogue.
Although the ELISA project is to beconsidered completed, research is currently carriedout in order to design a cognitively grounded theo-ry of misconceptions occurring in this translationtask.
For some preliminary work, see Breuker &Cerri (1982~.It should be noticed that this is the most de-licate aspect of this investigation.
When ELISA wasin a preliminary phase, and its dialogues were rea-listic but limited to a "toy" knowledge about thediscriminative use of a few conjunctions, we didnot expect that its extension to "real" knowledgewould have implied such an explosion of possibleright (and wrong~ links in the network, thus im-plying an explosion of possible models of student'sbehaviour.
Now, the reduction of the number andcomplexity of these possible models requires un-doubtedly empirical evidence.
Currently, ELISA em-bodies enough intuitions to be considered a matureexperimental tool, but not a complete theory ofbehaviour in translation, which will only be possi-ble after many refinements of the simple theory ~embodied by ELISA according to the experimentalevidence in real educational settings.After a misconception has been remedied, the(newl bug stack is examined and each bug triggers adiagnostic-remedial procedure, possibly suggesting135new bugs and so recursively.When a (new~ bug stack is empty, ELISA checksif all pairs of source/target misconcept have beenexamined, if it was not the case a diagnostic pro-cedure is called, else the (original~ bug is con-sidered remedied and ELISA formulates once morethe question which received initially the wronganswer.
We expect that now the student will notfail.III STEREOTYPICAL PROTOCOLS OF DIALOGUEIn this section we will present some examplesof dialogue which may well represent a typ ica l  in-teraction occurring as diagnosis and remedy of astudent's misconceptions.A.
Conceptual InversionThe dialogue in Fig.
1 presents a prototypefor a class of misconceptions which may be classi-fied as "conceptual inversion", i.e.
the model ofthe student represents the fact the (s~he distin-guishes between the source and target misconcept,but associates each of the two with a conjunctionspecific for the other of the two.I "e''"?
'Jpourquoi Iparce q.e JEl: Non vedo perchd non io farebbe.
(I don't see why (s~he wouldn't do it.~Je ne vois pas ... il ne le ferait pas.SI: Parce queE2: Non sei venuto?
- No, perch@ non ne avevo vo-glia.
(You didn't come?
- No, because I didn't feellike it.~Tu n'es pas venu?
- Non, ... je n'en avais pasenvie.$2: PourquoiFig, 1 Example of a dialogue concerning a "Concep-tual Inversion" type of misconception.
Anexcerpt of the knowledge network of ELISAconcerning the (I12~ and (CR~ concepts isalso presented.In this example, the first question of ELISA:E1 has the type (perch@, (ll2~2)and the expectedright answer is "pourquoi".2(I12~ means: 'Indirect Interrogation, 2nd type'.Usually, students know that "pourquoi" is cor-rect in interrogative clauses, but sometimes theydo not know that an interrogative clause might beindirect, as is our case.
Therefore, the transla-tion "pourquoi" is discarded, and the alternative"parce que" preferred.
This conjunction is ind~eda correct translation of "perch,", but in (CR~ Jcontexts.
This bug is classified as "expectedwrong" and the diagnostic strategy is entered.The question E2 of ELISA checks if the studentknows that the translation of "perch," in (CR~ con-texts is "parce que".
If this is the case, it couldbe guessed that the student does not know (the useof~ "pourquoi", or alternatively knows (the use of~pourquoi but believes "pourquoi" to be correct ina meaning different from (112) or (CR), and tran-slates "perch," with "parce que" irrespective ofthe context.
This misconception will be describedin more detail in the next subsection.Instead, the student answers: "pourquoi" whichallows one to draw the following conclusions:a. the student distinguishes between (112) and (CR)contexts, butb.
(s)he binds (112) with "parce que" and (CR) with"pourquoi", which is the reverse of the correctknowledge about French conjunctions.We call this misconception Conceptual Inver-sion, the remedy of ELISA will explain to the stu-dent this result and give more examples of the useof these conjunctions as translations of "perch,"in each of the two conceptual meanings.B.
Direct TranslationThe second example refers to the dialogue pre-sented in F~g.
2.
The question type of E1 is:(come, (SI) N and the expected right response ofthe student is either "aussitSt que" or d~s que".Icome II comme (;I: Come me vide, mi fece un segno con la mano.
(As (s)he saw me, (s)he waved to me.)...
il me vit, il me fit un signe de la main.SI : Comme3 (CR) means: 'Real Cause'4(SI) means: 'Innnediate Succession of the two pro-cesses'~136E2: Non appena so qualcosa, Le telefono.
(As soon as I know something, I'ii phone you.)...
je sais quelque chose, je vous t~l~phone.S2: D~s queE3: Sono arrivato per tempo, come vedi.
(I arrived in time, as you see.
)Je suis arriv~ ~ temps, ... tu vois.$3: CommeFig.
2 A typical dialogue during the diagnosis ofa Direct Translatiom type of misconception.An excerpt from the knowledge network re-lated to the dialogue is also included.The French "co~e",which is interfering withthe Italian "come", is not bound in any way tothe concept (SI), but instead can be use d correctlyas a translation of "come" in (CP) 5 contexts.This interference can be at the origin ofthe misconception consisting of the convictionthat, although (SI) and (CP)contexts are clearlydistinguishable in Italian, also because there is aspecific Italian conjunction "(non) appena" for(SI), which was not true for the disambiguation of(112) and (CR) in the example of Fig.
I, the Ita-lian student consistently translates "come" with"con~ne" irrespective of the co~text.The answer to E1 of type (come, (Sl))is SI:"comme" which is expected wrong.
ELISA puts a ques-tion E2 of type (non appena, (SI)) which is cor-rectly answered by S2:"d~s que".
Finally, ELISAputs a question E3 of type (come, (CP)) and getsas answer "comme" which is again correct.It can be concluded that:a. it is possible, but not certain, that the studentdistinguishes between (SI) and (CP) contexts.Since "non appena" and "d~s que" are both unam-biguously bound to (SI), the answer S2 does notshow that the student recognizes the context(SI); (s)he might instead associate directly theconjunction "non appena" with "d~s que" withoutbeing aware of the conceptual meaning of thecontext;b. the last hypothesis has to be considered con-firmed by the behaviour of the student shown bySI and $3: (s)he binds "come" to "comme" irres-pective of the contexts~ probably because ofthe interference between the two conjunctions.We call this misconception Direct Translation.IV CONCLUSIONSELISA was a testbed for Intelligent Teaching5(CP) means: 'Comparative Process'.Systems in foreign language teaching, designed anddeveloped in DART on the PLATO system for largescale use.
Its paradigm can be utilized for teach-ing to translate any word or structure whose mean-ing depends on the context.The full knowledge of ELISA concerning Italianand French conjunctions has been produced and ananalysis has been made of the possible patterns ofwrong behaviour.
This analysis has led to the de-sign of a strategy for the diagnosis of misconcep-tions underlying the surface mistakes, which hasbeen (theoretically) tested in simple cases.Because the real correct knowledge is extreme-ly complex, and so the possible incorrect one, weexpect to introduce heuristics into our exhaustivediagn0stic strategy once it will be used in an ex-perimental educational setting.In particular, three aspects could be the ob-ject of empirical research on the protocols of in-teraction with ELISA, nl:a. the plausibility of the expected misconceptions,their frequency and the explanations - given bythe students - of the causes of their wrong be-haviour;b. the heuristics to be inserted in ELISA in orderto induce the misconception from the diagnosticdialogue, e.g.
taking the history of the wholeteaching dialogue into account;c. the remedial procedure to be applied once themisconception has been classified (e.g.
a "so-cratic" method).Theoretically, ELISA's Italian-French knowled-ge network is a contrastive representation of theuse of conjunctions and can be utilized in teachingindependently on the computer program.A representation of the syntax and the seman-tics of the contexts for their automatic productionwould certainly be the natural extension of ELISA'sresearch within a project of automatic translation,and for a better understanding and explanation ofthe student's misconceptions as well.Because the "a posteriori" linguistic defini-tion of the "concepts" in the knowledge network canbe considered an interlingua for the translation ofconjunctionS, one could conceive that an extensionof the network of ELISA to more languages, con-structed pragmatically from the contexts, althoughrequiring a reorganization of the conceptual struc-ture of the network, could be o~ some interest forany project of multilingual automatic translation.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSWe wish to thank J. Breuker, B. Camstra, M.van Dijk and P. Mattijsen for their contributionsto the DART-ELISA project and R. Ambrosini and G.137Fasano for their kind assistence in making the workconcretely useful to the students.
We also wish tothank Mrs. P.L.
Tao per her correction of theEnglish of this paper.REFERENCESBrown, J.S.
and Van Lehn, K. 1980 "Repair Theory:a Generative Theory of Bugs in Procedural Skills",Cosnitive Science, 4: 379-426.Breuker, J. and Cerri, S.A. 1982, "A New Generationof Teaching Machines: Intelligent and Rather In-telligent Computer Assisted Instruction discussedand exemplified", in van Hees and Dirkzwager, (Ed.
)Onderwiis en de n~euwe media; Swets and Zeitlinger,Lisse; 103-112.Cerri, S.A. and Breuker, J.
1980, "A Rather Intel-ligent Language Teacher",Proc.
AISB European Con-ference on Artificial Intelligence AISB-80, Amster-dam (July).
In a revised version also in: Hart R.S.(Ed.
), Studies in Language Learning: the PLATOSystem and langugge studies, Univ.
of lllinois,3,1:182-192 (1981).Cerri, S.A. and Breuker, J.
1981,"'Intelligent'dialogues on PLATO", in Cappelli, A., (Ed.
), Lin-guistica Computazionale 2: Research in NaturalLanguage Processing in Italy, Giardini, Pisa: iii-127.Cerri, S.A. and Merger, M.F.
1982, "The KnowledgeBase of an 'Intelligent' Automatic Tutor of French~Italian Conjunctions", Scientific Report S-82-16,Dipartimento di Informatica, Univ.
of Pisa (Decem-ber).Merger, M.F.
and Cerri, S.A. 1983, "Didattica Au-tomatica 'Intelligente' delle parole straniere:le congiunzioni italiane-francesi", Pacini, (Ed.
),Pisa (in press).138
