TOWARDS BETTER UNDERSTANDING O15' ANAPHORABarbara  Dun in -K@pH czInstitute of Informatics, Warsaw UniversityP.O.
Box  121000-901 Warszawa,  Po landABSTRACTTh is  paper  presents  a syntacticalmethod of interpreting pronouns  in Polish,Us ing  the sur face structure of the sentenceas  well as  grammat ica l  and  inflexionalinlormation access ib le  dur ing syntacticanalysis, an  area  of re ference is marked  outfor each  persona l  and  possess ive  pronoun.Th is  a rea  consists of a few internal a reasinside the current sentence  and  an  externalarea, i.e.
the part of the text p reced ing  it.In order  to determine that a rea  of re ferencesevera l  syntactic sentence- leve l  restrictionson  anaphora  interpretation are  formulated.Next, when looking at the area  ofp ronoun 's  reference, all NPs  wh ich  number --gender  agree  with the pronoun can  beselected and  this way  the set of sur facereferents ol each  pronoun can  be  created.It can  be used  as  data for further semant icanalysis.I INTRODUCTIONReference  is one  of the centralconcepts  of any  linguistic theory.
In recentresearch  into anaphora  the term "reference"has  been used  in three different senses( Szwedek ,  1981):(a )  as  a re la t ion  between the name and  theth ing  named (Ha l l  Par tee ,  1978)(b )  as  an  assoc ia t ion  between noun phrasesand  menta l  ent i t ies  in  the language user ' s(Nash-%~ebber ,  1978)(c )  as  an  assoc ia t ion  between the  occur renceof phrases  in the  text  (Re inhar t ,  1981)However  the re fe rence  is  unders tood ,irl o rder  to in terpret  cor rec t ly  anaphora  on  thesemant ic  leve l  ( (a )  and  (b ) ) ,  f i rs t  a s tage(C) is necessary .in this paper  I have  taken the point ofv ie~ presented  under  (c).
i shall d i scuss  theprob lem o~ onaphora  in Pol ish ser Atences.
rvlyaltentioF, is focused  on  persona l  ondpossess ive  pronouns  expt i c i te ly  occur r ing  inthe text and  moreover  on  zero  pronouns ,  i.e.ellipsis of NP  in the subject position, specificfor S lavon ic  languages .My  purpose  in the description ofregularities of the re ference in the Pol ishlanguage.
I shall express  them by defining thearea  of p ronoun 's  references,  i.e.
those  reg ionsof the text where  its antecedents  shou ld  Defound, q hese  sur face referents will be selectedfrom among NPs  occurr ing in the sentence.The  research  on  anaphora  made forEngl ish has  led to the formulation of somestructural rules us ing  such  relations ascommand,  c -command and  precede-and-command(Re inhar t ,  3.981).I have  been search ing  for ana logous  rulesfor Polish.
But  two essential differences haveto be considered:(i) grammat ica l  and  morpho log ica l  propertiesof Pol ish and  English;(ii) different grammat ica l  traditions.For  Engl ish  the rules concern ig  thecore ference  of entities were  forrrulated on  thebasis of generative-transformational g rammar .For  Pol ish the first prec ise description ofPol ish syntax  was  formulated only recently bySzpakowicz ,  who  based  his work  on  thef ramework  created  by  Sa lon i  (Saloni, 1976;Saloni and  Swidzinski ,  1981) .
It is a k ind ofin,mediate-constituent g rammar ;  the grammat ica lcategories (case, ~ender,  etc) are appl ied notonly to single words ,  but also to compoundphrases.
In my present  ~vork I have  limited myattention to the subset  of Pol ish descr ibedby Szpakowicz  (Szpako~Jvicz, 1983) .Folish is a highly inflexionat language andthis fact has  many and  var ied consequences .Sur face  referents of the pronoun will beselected from among those NPs  wh ich  number --gender  agree  with the pronoun.
Strictlyspeaking,  the grammat ica l  categories of thepronoun shou ld  be compatible with thecategories of the NP ,  but in cases  ofneutralization they cannot  be fully determined.My  method of determining the areas  of p ronoun 'sreference is a syntachc  one, because  it isbased  on  morpho log ica l  and  syntacticalproperties of the Pol ish language.
I assume139the availability of the sur face structure of thesentence  as  well as  grammat ica l  and  inflexionalinformation access ib le  dur ing a syntacticanalysis.
I detiberately do  not make use  ofany  semant ic  information, t ry ing  to get  themost  out of grammar,  ri'he feature I intend t Oprov ide is a complete  definition of the areaof p ronoun 's  reference.A.II AREA OF REFERENCEInternal and  external a reas  of re ferenceIn the process  of determining the sur facereferents of the pronoun,  first the area  of itsre ference shou ld  be marked  out.
Th is  area,i.e.
those  reg ions of the text, where  itsantecedents  shou ld  be  found, is usual ly madeup  of severa l  internal re ference arehsp i.e.the appropr iate bits of the current sentence,and  an  external area, the part of the textp reced ing  the current sentence.
The  list ofinternal a reas  depends  on  the syntacticposition of the pronoun in the sentence.q'o determine these areas  it is necessary  toformulate sentence- leve l  anaphora  restrictionsfor Polish..
These  rules will determine theconditions of both obligatory core ference  and0bii~atory non-core ference  of entities.
Thuswe have  two situations to consider:(i) in the case  of obligatory core ference  oneinternal area  of re ference containing theappropr iate referent shou ld  be markedout ;( i i )  in the  case  of  ob l igatory"  non-core ferencethe  e lements  wh ich  are  fo rb idden  assur face  re ferents  o f  the  pronoun shou ldbe exc luded  f rom the in terna l  a rea .The  core ference  of  ent i t ies  wh ich  is  qua l i f i edon  the bas i s  of  some other  p remises  w i l l  beca l led  admiss ib le  core ference .A t  our  d i sposa l  we  have  a mul t i l eve led ,h ie rarch ic  sur face  s t ruc ture  of  the sentence .Genera l ly ,  it seems that  in terna l  a reas  can  beident i f ied  with the  const i tuents  on  the  h i~hestleve l :  sub jec t ,  ob jec ts ,  mod i f ie rs ,  regard lessof their syntactic realization.
Strictly speak ing,noun as  well as  NP  or any  sententialstructures can  be instances  of internal a reasof re fe rence .The partitioning of sentence  (i) illustrates i%:(i) " (Ewa i Piotr) poszli (do niego)(z dz iewczynq,  kt6r~% w{a~nie  spotkali)".
"Eva  and  Peter  went  to h im with a girlwh ich  j us t  fret".\[3.
Ru les  ccncern in~ core ference  ofentities in Pol ishi.
The  basic criterion of exc lud ingcore ferenceThe  following rules of exc lud ing  thecore ference  of entities concern  a leveldeeper  than that on  the surface, because  theyrefer to syntactical functions of phrases  in thesentence.
The  first rule presents  the prob lemof core ference  of the subject and  other nomina lgroups,  i.e.
objects and  nomina l  trodifiers, inshort called objects.
It concerns  reflexivepronouns ,  so  it shou ld  be noted first that theydiffer from those in English, eg.
:- possess ive  pronoun "sw6j" may have  one  ofthe following mean ings :  his, her, its.- reflexive pronoun "siebie" can  mean:  himself,herself, itself, myself, ourself, yourself,themse lves .The  bas ic  criterion of exc lud in~cor ference  I have  formulated from theanalytical point of view:(R  I) If the ob jec t  is expressed  by  means  ofa reflexive pronoun,  then it iscoreferential with the subject; in othercases  the referential identity of thesubject and  object ist exc luded.Th is  criterion is appl ied both to look forcoreferents of objects - b locking the subject,and  in testing the possible antecedents  of thesubject - b lock ing the objects.Let us  cons ider  some examples :Mean ing  of symbols :.~ ,- obligatory core ference, ./ r obligatory non-core ference~ --.- admiss ib le  core ferencere ference to external a reazero  pronoun(2) "Ewa zapyta{a i o to""Eva  asked  her  about  it"4 (3) ~ ~ i .
~  o to"7~ -"Aske~e m her  about  it"(4 )  "Ona  zapyta{a  i o to""She  asked  her  about  it"(5) "On zapyta~ Jana  o Piotra""He  asked  John  about  Peter"(6) "P io t r  nala{ sobie piw""Peter poured  himself beer"Rule R 1 ho lds  for possess ive  pronouns :(7) "Ewa uwielbia swo j~ przyjaci6~k~""Eva  adores  her  friend"Now let us  have  a loo\[~ at the case  of thepreposed  PPs  so difficult to interpret inEnglish.
The  basic criterion of exc lud ingcore ference  covers  these phrases  too:(8) "ik'~.gle, obok  J ana, ~) zobaczy~ wqza""Suddenly ,  near  John, saw a snake"  mast140(9) "Nagle, obok  niego, ~ zobaczy~ w@za""Suddenly, near him, saw a snake"masc(10) "Nagle, obok  siebie, zobaczy{  w~-a""Suddenly, near himself, saw a snake"(ii) "Nagle, obok  siebie, Jnmasc- -  zobaczy~ w~za""Suddenly, near himself, he saw a snake"In examples  (10) and  (13.)
the reflexivepronoun has  appeared.
These  are the onlytwo cases  in wh ich  the coreference with thesubject of the main sentence is permitted andeven  obligator'y.
Such  an interpretation iscorrect irrespective of the position of PP  inthe sentence, i.e.
it does  not depend onwhether  this phrase  precedes  or follows thesubject.The  basic criterion of excludingcoreference works  as follows:(i) it is valid only for a simple clause,without blocking coreference between theelements of the main sentence and  theconstituents of embedded clauses;(ii) it is obligatory on  every  level of thesentence, i.e.
it concerns  all thesentence constructions irrespective oftheir position in the structure of thewhole sentence.Examples  (12) to (14) illustrate this:12) "Piot"~ nie wiedzia~, czy '~ pdjdzie dokina""Peter did not know, whether  would  goto the movies"13) "Jan zapomnia{, o co Pio?.F ~Q pyta{""John forgot, what Peter asked  him aboulP.
~14) Jan spotka{ ch*opca, kt6ry eo dawnoni e"o d~ e c~z'ii .
.
.
.
.
"4""John met a boy, who  didn't visit himfor lon~"The  interpretation of reflexive pronounsis not so easy  as the criterion R 1 suggests.These  pronouns  can  be i nvo lved  in  variouscompound phrases  which often are ambiguous.Especially infinitive phrases  are hard tointerpret.
In order to do this correctly, animp l i c i t  agent  wh ich  w i l l  be ca l led  fu r ther  thedeep sub jec t ,  shou ld  be obta ined .
It o f tenneeds  a few hypotheses  to be formulated.Let us consider an example.
The  sentence:(15) "Jan kaza{ s tuzqcemu umyd siq"can be translated in two ways  which exactly?
.
m ~lve the sense  of possible Polishinterpretations:(15.1) "John told (the sevant) (to wash  him)"(15.2) "John told (the servant) (to washhimself )"In the infinitive phrase "umyd si@" ("to washhim" or "to wash  himself") which is standingin the object position, the reflexive pronoun"si~" is coreferential with the deep  subject ofthis phrase.
Thus  its interpretation has  to bedetermined.
Here  we have  two possibilities:(i) the previoux ob jec t -  "servant" -interpretation (15.1)(it) the subject of the main sentence - "John"- interpretation (15.2)One  of them is the referent of the deepsubject.
And  so we come to the next rule:(R 2) In order to interpret the infinitivephrase, the deep  subject of the phrasehas  to be selected from among theprevious object (if any) and  thesubject of the main sentence.2.
Exc ludin~ the coreference betweenobjectsThe  next sentence-level restriction ofanaphora  interpretation regulates the problemof coreference of l'4Ps other than a subject,i.e.
objects, between them.
(R 3(16)(18)) The  coreference of particular objetsis excluded.
This  in an  obligatorynon-coreference.
"Jan zapyta{ eo o Piotra"John asked  him about Peter""Jan zapyta~ e_qo o nie~o'" Jo2  ~ a ~ u t  him",, ja n zapyta, P i o ~ J ~ o  H"John asked  Peter about him"This rule does  not hold for possess ivepronouns  which  in Polish do not create NPsby themselves.
If these pronouns  occur  inobjects, they may be coreferential with objectspreceding them Cadmissible coreference).
(19) "JaD zapyta~ P io t~ o ieRo brata"/ - -~"John asked  Peter about his brother"Rule R 2 is only valid for a simple clause, ?but it concerns  all the sentence constructionsirrespective of their position in the wholesentence.1413.
Ru les  of interpretinq compoundsentences"l~he next group of problems concernsthe coreference of entities in a compoundsentence, including the question of the subject.In a Polish sentence it needs  not be explicit.Ellipsis of the I'~P in the subject position,often called "the elided subject", is a naturalway  of express ing "thematic cont,nu,ty' " andexemplifies an  unaccented  position in thesentence.
On  the other hand, the pronoun asthe subject stands in syntactic opposition tothe elided subject (zero pronoun)  andexemplifies an  accented position in thesentence.~,'hile determining the antecedent of thesubject of a simple sentence or a main  clausein a compound sentence (explicit or implicit)we  reach out to the external area ofreferences.
However ,  the basic criterion ofexcluding coreference is still valid.
(20) "Oh zap~a{ ~.~ o Pio~ra'" H e ~ t  Peter"The  interpretation of compound sentences  isd~icult and  somet imes  leads to ambiguousresults.
The  following rules concern  mainly thecoreference (or non-coreference) of elidedsubjects i n  co-ordinate and  aubordinateclauses.
In the case  of co-ordinate clausest~,o rules can  be formulated:(R 4) I~or each  two clauses in a sequence,if the elided subject is in the secondclause, then the subject of the firstclause should be extrapolated there(obliRatory coreference).
"Piotr podszed~ do okna" (21) wsta~ od"Peter left the table and  approached thew indow"(R 5) 5"or each  two c lauses i n  a sequence,the pronoun or zero pronoun subjectin the first clause cannot becoreferential with the non-pronounsubject of the second clause(obligatory non-coreference).
(22) ?
~  od/to~,~-piot~ podszed~ dookna""lie left the table and  Peter approachedthe w indow"Interpreting subordinate c lauses depends  onthe relative position of the main  and  theembedded clause.
(R 6) If the embedded clause precedes  themain clause and  if both have  elidedsubjects, these have  to be coreferential(obligatory coreference).
(zJ) Zanim 4~.~2z~>~ zgasi~ ~wiat~o""Before leftmasc, turned Offmasc the light"(24) "Poniewa~ % ~ ?
zapyta~ o to""Because forgot , asked about it" masc  masc(R ?)
The  elided subject in the embeddedclause is a natural way  of indicatingthe nearest candidate - the  previousobject (if it is there) or the subjectof the main  sentence (admissiblecoreference )."
-  - -  "'--" - -  ze ' *~ p6jdzie do (25) "Jan zapewni~ Plotra,kina" "~ __ -#'(R 8(26)(27)(28)"John promised Peter, that will go tothe movies") The pronoun or zero pronoun subjectin the main sentence can becoreferential with the non-pronounsubject of the embedded clause whichprecedes the main sentence (admissiblecoreference),  but cannot beCoreferential with the non-pronounsubject of the embedded clausefollowing the main sentence (obligatorynon-coreference ).
"Zanin Jan w-y-szed{, ~ zgasi{ ~wiat{o""Before John left, turned off the light" masc  l"~ z ~gasi{ ~wiat~o, zanim J aan wyszed{"{"Turned  off the light, before John left" masc,, O.~n-~ni e / _ _  wiedzia~, czy ~iot.r.
156jdzie dokina""He didn't know,  whether  Peter will goto the movies"4.
Interpretation of relative c lausesRelative c lauses are quite easy  tointerpret in Polish.
Either their subject orobject is replaced with  pronoun "which" or"what" or their equivalents (only such  typesof relative c lauses are descr ibed in theSzpakowicz  grammar).
These  pronounsa lways  indicate the NP  next to which theystand and  inherit gender, number  and  personfrom it.
rfhus the obligatory coreference ofrelative pronoun and  this NP  is determined.Let us have  a look at some examples:(29) "E~'a zaprosi~ca Ani@, kt6r~ ~ zna{a oddawna""Eva  invited Ann  t whichfor lon~"had  knownfem142(30) "Ewa zaprosi~a An~ro~'~'~ '~ jsA .
oddawn~'"Eva  inv i ted  Ann,  which(~ ' - J~ct )her for fang"had  knownIII CONCLUSIONThe  above  syntactic method ofin terpret ing  pronouns  yields only partial results- the list of internal areas of reference or theexternal area, both with certain restrictions oncoreference, are determined.
Next, moredetailed results can  be obtained.
1~'hen lookingat the internal areas, all NPs  which number --gender  agree with the pronoun should beselected and  a list of surface referents ofp ronoun together with a list of elementsblocked as the referents can  be drawn up.If no internal areas are marked  out, theexternal area with the list of b locked elementsis the result of the method presented here.Similary, while only admissible coreference isdetermined, the external area is marked  outtoo and  the list of b locked elements remainsvalid.
On  the other hand  the obligatorycoreference makes  it possible to define theappropriate antecedent of the pronoun.
Thelist of surface referents may be ordered byassunzin~ the specific method of traversing theparsin~ tree.
I expext, that as  for English,recency  understood as a physical distancebetween the pronoun and  its antecedent can  bethe first approximation of the probability.As  expected the results of the methodapplied here need  semantic verification.
But atthe same time they are a reasonable  data forfurther semantic analysis.
Data arrived at inthis way  make  this process  much easier.it seems that a similar procedure  canbe carried out for other languages.
Fullgrammatical information should be usedwherever  it can  s impl i fy  such  complexprocess  as the semantic analysis.NASH-WEBBER,  Bonn ie  Lynn  (1978).A Formal  Approach  toD iscourse  Anaphora .
Phl)thesis, Harvard  UniversityPARTEE,  Barbara  Hall (1978).
BoundVariables and  Other Anaphors  in:Wal tz  1978, 79-85.RE INHART,  Tanya  (1981).
Definite NPAnaphora  and  C-Command Domains.in: Linguistic Inquiry, Vol 12, No  4,Fall 1981.SALONI,SALONIZygmunt  (1976).
Cechy  sk{adniowepolskiego czasownika  (SyntaxProperties of Polish Verb).Ossol ineum, P race  j~zykoznawcze ,1976.Zygmunt,  SWIDZINSK I  Marek  (1981).Skgadnia wsp6{czesnego  j~zykapolskiego (Syntax of ContemporaryPolish Language) .
1~'ydawnictwaUniwersytetu 9Varszawskiego,  1981.SZPAKOIA ' ICZ ,  Stanis{aw (1983).
Formalnyopis sk~adnio~y" zda6  polskich.
(Formal  Syntactic Description ofPolish sentences).
INydawnic twaUniwersytetu "vVarszawskiego, 1983.SZWEDEK, Aleksander  (1981).
Word Order ,Sentence, Stress and Referencein Engl ish and  Polish.
WSPBydgoszcz ,  1981.V ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI would like to acknowledge  JanuszBie6 and Stanistaw Szpakowicz  for theirhelpfuU comments  on  this paper.H IRST ,HOBBS,HOBBS,REFERENCESOraeme (1979).
Anaphora  in NaturalLanguage Understanding: A Survey.I~ept.
of Compute  Science,University of British Columbia.Jerry R (1976).
ComputationalApproach  to D iscourse Analysis.Art i f i c ia l  In te l l igence Center,SRI  I n te rnat iona lJerry lq (1978).
Coherence  andCoreference.
Technica l  note 168.Artificial Intelligence Center,SRI in ternat iona l143
