ITERATIg-E OPERATIONSSae YamadaNotre Dame Seishin UniversityIfuku-Ch5 2-16-9700 Okayama, JapanABSTRACTWe present in this article, as a partof aspectual operation system, a gene-ration system of iterative expressionsusing a set of operators called iterativeoperators.
In order to execute the itera-tive operations efficiently, we haveclassified previously propositionsdenoting a single occurrence of a singleevent into three groupes.
The definit ionof a single event is given recursively.The classif ication has been carried outespecially in consideration of the dura-tire / non-durative character of thedenoted events and also in considerationof existence / non-existence of a cul-mination point (or a boundary) in theevents.
The operations concerned withiteration have either the effect of givinga boundary to an event ( in the case ofa non-bounded event) or of extending anevent through repetitions.
The operatorsconcerned are: N,F .. direct iterativeoperators; I,G .. boundary giving opera-tors; I .. extending operator.
There aredirect and indirect operations: the directones change a non-repetitious propositioninto a repetitious one directly, whereasthe indirect ones change it indirectly.The indirect iteration is indicated with.
The scope of each operator is notuniquely definable, though the mutualrelation of the operators can be givenmore or less explicitly.I INTRODUCTIONThe system of the iterative opera-tions, which makes a part of aspectualoperation system, is based on the assump-tion that the general mechanism ofrepetition is language independent andcan be reduced to a small number ofoperations, though language expressionsof repetition are different from languageto language.
It must be noticed that evenin one language there are usually severalmeans to express repetitious events.
Weknow that "il lui cognait la t~te contrelemur"  and "il lui a cogn~ deux ou troisfois la t~te contre lemur" ,  the examplesgiven by W. Pollak, express the same event.We have also linguistic means foriterative expressions on all lin-guistic levels: morphological,syntactical, semantic, pragmatic etc.As the general form of repetit ionwe use ~ = (~i~ in which ~ is thewhole event, ~ia single occurrenceof a single event and* an iterationindicator.
For example:: (a series of) explosions tookplace93: a single explosion took place: indefinit number of times~i denotes actually a propositiondescribing a single event S i.
~ sign willbe replaced later by a singIe or complexoperator or operators, which operate(s)on ~i-We hope also to be able to give variousexpressions to the same event and forthat purpose we are planning to havea set of interpretation rules.The language mainly concerned isJapanese, but in this article examplesare given in French, in English or inGerman.2 BASIC CONDITION OF THE ITERATIONThe iterative aspect is one ofsentential aspect and denotes pluraloccurrence of an event or an action.
Theiterative aspect concerns thereforethe property of countability.
The itera-tire operations give the iterative aspectto a proposition and are concerned withthe plurality of occurrences of the event.As we distinguish count nouns (countterms) from non-count nouns (mass terms),we distinguish countable events from non-countable events, or more precisely,the events of which the number of occur-rences is countable and those of whichthe number of occurrences is non-coun-table.14As a count noun has a clear boundary,a countable event also has to have aclear boundary.
Countable events arefor instance: he opens a window; he readsa book; he kicks a ball etc.
Non-countableevents are for instance: he swims; hesleeps deeply; he runs fast,etc.Only a countable event can be repeated:he opens three windows; he kicked theball twice,etc.
A n~n-countable eventcan't be repeated: ~he sleeps twice.The distinction of two kinds of events(and of two kinds of propositions),which also is called tel ic-atel ic,  cyclic-non-cyclic or bounded-non bounded dis-tinction" is therefore necessary for theexecution of the iterative operations.It must be useful to give here someremarks on the terminology.The terms such as 'iterative', 'repeti-tive', 'frequentative' and 'multiplica-tire' are used very often as synonyms.However there are some works whichdistinguish them one from the otherThe term repetitive is used sometimesto indicate only one repetition and theterm iterative to indicate more than tworepetitions.
And sometimes the termiterative is used for one repetition andthe term frequentative is used forseveral repetitions.We use both of the terms 'iterative' and'repetitive'~ (hence 'iteration' and'repetition'~as synonyms.
In this article'repetition' means, in most of cases,two or more occurrences of a same event.But in order to prevent a misunderstan-ding, we rather use the term 'iteration'.A 'proposition' denotes an event and itis a neutral expression in the sense thatthe tense, aspect and mode operatorsoperate on it.3 SOME PREVIOUS REMARKS ON ITERATION3.1 Regular and irregular iterationTwo kinds of iterations are distin-guished: regular and irregular iterations,i.e.
the iterations which correspond tocardinal count adverbials and the itera-tions which correspond to frequencyadverbials.A regular iteration is defined either bya regular frequency of the occurrence ofthe event, (called 'fixed frequency' byStump), or by a constant length ofintervals between occurrences.
(I) We ate supper at six o'clock everynight last week.
(Frequency)The busses started at five-minuteintervals.
(Interval)I These termes are used by Garey, Bull andAllen respectively.The extreme case of the regular itera-tion is called 'habitude'.
(2) En ~t~, elle se levait ~ quatreheure s.A regular frequency or a constant inter-val is indicated by the operator F.An irregular iteration is indicatedeither with a number of occurrences of anevent or with irregular lengths ofintervals between occurrences.
(3) Linda called you several times lastnight.
(Frequency)Nous avons entendu le m~me bruit parintervalles.
(Interval)Both the numerical indications and theindications of irregular intervals aregiven with the operator N.3.2 Repeated constituent of the eventConsidering the structure of arepeated event, we can distinguishseveral forms of repetitions, accordingas which constituent is affected.
If wesay,"She changes her dress severaltimes a day", it is the object which isaffected by the repetition.Using grammatical category-names we canindicate the repeated constituent as thefollowing.Simple repetition(4) Subj (Pred)~: Mr. Wells is publishinga novel year by year; L'une apr~sl'autre le pilote v~rifia des chiffrea(Subj Pred~ : People walked acrossthe lawn; Each boy in the room stoodup and gave his name.Complex repetition(5)(Subj(Pred)~)*: Lorsqu'elle venaitavec sa m~re, souvent celle-ci cares-salt ce vieux pilier central...((Subj Pred) ~ : Les habitants de cequartier r~p~tent toujours:~Si nousavions un arr~t d'autobus pr%s d'ici.~On the actual stage we have no such adetailed mechanism to be able to diffe-rentiate the repeated constituent.
Nordo we consider the differentiation neces-sary.
We treat all these repetitions ashaving the type (Subj Pred)~,(in a moregeneral form ~) ,  and we find no incon-venience doing so.3.3 Repeated phase of the eventAn event consists of several phases:the beginning, the middle, the end andeventually the result and the imminentphase, i.e.
the phase directly precedingthe beginning point.15As for the repetition is concerned onlya phaseincluding a culmination point iscapable of repetition, because the repe-tition presuppos~ that the event has a(real or hypothetical) boundary.
(6) (Inchoative)~: Lorsqu'il arrivait ..,M~re et Mme van Daan se mettaientpleurer ~ chaque fois.~ Terminat ive~ : Une ~ une les villes talent englouties.
(Imminent Phase)*: Trois fois ouquatre fois au cours de l 'entretienle commissaire avait ~t~ sur lepoint de lui appliquer sa main surla figure.
(Hypothetical culminationpoint)(Resultat ive~ : Chaque fois que jevais chez elle, je trouve toute lamaison bien nettoy~e.Like the distinction of the repeatedconstituent, the distinction of therepeated phase is not especially signifi-cative in the iterative operations.Besides, if necessary, we can treat eachphase as an independent event: the begin-ning part ~' of the event ~ can beconsidered as an event.
Thus, for thetime being, the distinction of phases isalso neglected in the iterative opera-tions.3.4 Homogeneous iteration and hetero-geneous iterationA homogeneous iteration is an ordinaryiteration of the type(~)~ and a hetero-geneous iteration is what is called byImbs 'la r~p~tition d'alternance'.
It isnot the iteration of a simple event butthe iteration of two or more mutuallyrelated events.
It has the form: (~'?~' '...)~(7) J'allume et j'~teins une fois parminute.The most frequent case is the combina-tion of two events, but the combinationof three events is still possible:(8) Depuis une heure il va ~ la fen~tretous les  trois minutes, s'arr~te unmoment et revient encore.The combination of more than threeevents is not natural.4 APPLICATION ORDER OF TENCE ANDASPECT OPERATORIn the present article we are exclu-sively concerned with aspect operators andtense operators are not treated, thoughpast tense sentenses are used as examples.We will be contented just to say thattense operators come after aspect opera-tors in the operation order.
(9) I1 travaille.
--- I1 se met enfintravailler.
(Inchoative) --- I1 s'estnis enfin ~ travailler.
(Inchoative +Past)CLASSIFICATION OF BASIC PROPOSI-TIONSA sentential aspect is the sythesisof the aspectual meanings of all consti-tuents of the sentence.For the efficient execution of iterativeoperations as well as all aspectualoperations we have to classify previouslypropositions ~i denoting events S i. Forthis classif ication we take accoufit ofdurative/non-durative and bounded/non-bounded characters of events.The distinguished propositions are:~ = durative proposition; ~2 = accom-plishment proposition; ~ = momentaneous(or non-durative) proposltion.
This clas-sication is basically identical withVerkuyl's.
The criteria we have used andexamples of propositions of each groupeare as the following.
(For pragmaticreason, sentences are given instead ofpropositions.
)Criteria~I: the event is represented with an openinterval; satisfies the additivity (orpartitivity) condition; co-occurrencewith durative adverbials such as a yea~an hour .. Ok; co-occurrence withmomentaneous adverbials such as in fiveminutes, at that moment .. No~2: the event is represented with aclosed interval; a culmination point(or a boundary) is included; if theculmination point is excluded, itsatisfies the additivity condition,otherwise .. ~o~:  the event can be considered as a~momentaneous one; co-occurrence withdurative adverbials .. No; co-occur-rence with momentaneous adverbials ..OkI Cf.
Verkuyl (80) p145.
Verkuyl distin-guishes durative VP, terminative VP andmomentaneous VP.16Examples of expressions~I: he sleeps, he sings, he walks~2: he swims across the river, hereaches the top of the hill, he buildsa sandcastle@3: he hits the ball, a bombe explodes,-he kicks at a ballThis classification is necessary alsofor other aspectual operations.
In orderto show the varidity of the classifi-cation, we give an example of otheraspectual operations: the inchoativeoperation.
Inch is a boundary givingoperator and gives the initial borderto any proposition, but the meaning ofInch(@ i) is different according to @i-With ~\[, which doesn't imply any boundarzInch functions to give the initial boun-dary.ex.
~I it rains; Inch(~l) .. Itbegins to rainWith @o, which implies an end point,inch fiEes the initial boundary.ex.
@2 "" Bob builds a sandcastle;Inch(@2) .. Bob began to build a sand-castle.The length of the event is the timestretch, at the end of which Bob issupposed to complete the sandcastle.With @3 the condition is quite different.~3, momentaneous proposition, implies nolength (or no meaningful length) and thebeginning point and the end point overlapeach other.
Inch(~3) gives automatical\]ythe iteration of the event and theinitial boundary becoms the initialboundary of the prolonged event.ex.
@3 "" he knocks (one time) on thedoor; Inch(@3) ..
He began knocking(repeatedly) on the door.The function of the Inch is the same forall of three examples, but the meaningof the beginning is different one fromanother.
The third case (that of ~3) isan example of the fact that a non-repe-titious operator can produce certainrepetitions.
This is the repetitiouseffect of a non-repetitious operator, towhich we will return later.6 BASIC OPERATORSAn iterative operation is noted asRj(~i), of which Rj is either a singleoperator or operators.
As it was alreadysaid t a necessary condition of the itera-tion is that the event in question hasa clear boundary.
Thus the operatorsconcerned with the iterative operationshave either the effect of giving a certainboundary, (in the case of non-boundedevent): B@i , or the effect of repetition.The following operators indicated withcapital letters are not individual opera-tors,but group names.
An individualoperator has for instance a form like N 2or F1/w(eek).OperatorsN: operators indicating directly the num-ber of repetitionsF: operators indicating a frequency orregular intervals between occurrencesI: operators indicating a temporallength; effect of prolonging andborderingB: boundary giving operatorsG: prolonging operatorsExamples of expressionsN: two times, three times, several timesF: every day, three times a week,several times a dayI: for an hour, from one to threeB: begin to, finish -ing, (teshimau..J)G: continue to, used tO, (te iru.. J)7 OPERATIONS7.1 Single operators N~F~I7.1.1 Direct operationsThe operation of N, F, repetitiousoperators, on ~2, ~3 give as the outputN~2, N~ 3, F~2, F~.
These are direct (ex-plicit) repetitiofis operations, namelythose which change a non-repetitiousproposition into a repetitious one.
Theresult of the operations is exactly whatthe operators indicate.
(lO) N~:  He crossed the road twice.N~:  He knocked on the door twice.F~2: He goes to Tokyo Station oncea week.F~3: It s~arkles every two minutes.7.1.2 Indirect OperationsThe operator I gives a temporallimit to a proposition.
Usually it ope-rates on ~I"ex.
~I .. he walks; I~I .. he walksfor two hourst7It is not a proper repetitious operator.However, if the operator I operates on 92or on 9x, a bounded proposition, it turnsthe proposition into that of repeatedevent.
In this case, the iterative opera-tion is effectuated indirectly.
We callthis iteration 'implicative iteration'.ex.
92 -- John walks to the door;I .. for hours; I92 .. John walked tothe door for hours.In order to differentiate this I92 fromI91, we use the symbolXfor an implicativeiteration: I (~92) .
(exact ly~is~1 oral2)~appears  not only with the operator I,but also with N and F.(11) N(~ 93): The top spun three times(= several times on three occasionsl).F (~93) :  The bell rings three timesa day.As we have already seen, other aspectualoperators can also have the effet ofrepetition.
(12) Inch 93 = Inch(~ 93): It began tospin.Term 93 = Term(~93) :  It stopped tobeat.As for the strings N91 and F91, theydon't satisfy the basic condition of theiteration, i.e.
91 has no boundary.
Withsome special interpretation rules, how-ever, we can interprete them as N92 andF92 respectively.ex.
F91: ?He walks three times a week.--@ He walks from the house to thestation three times every week (F92).7.2 Complex operators of N,F,I7.2.1 Direct OperationsThe above operators N,F,I can beapplied successively one after the other,but not every combination nor everyapplication order is acceptable.
F.I,I.F, F-N and N-I are acceptable, but N.Fis not natural.
(13) F(I91): Ii y alla souvent pendantune quinzaine de jours; I .. 15 jours,F .. souvent, 91 .. il y alla (pour yrester)N(I91): J'~tais ~ Tokyo en touttrois fols, chaque lois pendant quel-ques semaines;N .. trois fois; I ..I The distinction of the situation andthe occasion is clear in Mourelatos.quelques semaines; 91 .. J'gtaisTokyoI(F93): Ii prend le medicamenttrois lois par Sour pendant unesemaine; I .. une semaine; F .. troisfois par jour; 93 .- il prend le medi-camentI~N gives in a certain operationalorder the same effect as a single opera-tor F, but in other orde~ other effects.Using complex operators, we get the out-put I(F92), I(F93!, F(N92), F!N93),N(I91), F(I91), I(N92), I(N93).Combination of more than two operatorsare also possible.
(14) II(F(I291)): Es hat heute ab und zueine Stunde lang geregnet; II heuteF .. ab und zu; 12 .. eine Stunde;91 .. es regneteCf.
Es hat heute eine Stunde lang abund zu geregnet.II(F(I291)!
: Toutes les fins desemaine en gte, on gtait toujoursparti; II .. en gt~; F .. chaquesemaine; !o -- pendant le week-end91 -.
on @~ait parti III(F(I291)): Ein Jahr fang hatPeter t~glich 3 Stunden lang trainiert;I1 .. ein Jahr; F .. t~glich; I2 ..d~ei Stunden; 91 .. Peter trainierte7.3 Operators B and G7.3.1 Direct OperationsAdding B, boundary giving operators,and G, prolonging operators, to the aboveoperators, we can further extend theiterative operations.
B is by it-self norepetitious operator.
Its proper functionis to give a boundary to a non-boundedproposition.
One of the B-operators isInch: Inch 91 .. he begins to write.Once a event gains a boundary, it can berepeated.
(15) N(B91): He began to write threetimes.Another application order of N and Bgives another kind of output.
(16) B(N92): Bob began to build threesandcastles; N .. 3; B ..
Inch; 92 -.Bob built a sandcastleI Example borrowed from Sankoff/Thibault.
'en ~te' can be also interpreted as F.In this case, we have two F-operators F Iand F2: FI (F2(I~I)); FI .. en ~t~ =chaque ~t~; F2 .. chaque semaine.18The prolonging operators G is not arepetitious operator either.
If G performson ~I, it has only the effect of prolon-ging orextend ing  the event?
(17) G~I: He is working; G .. ING; ~I --he works7.3.2 Indirect OperationsIn some cases, the operation of Bbrings about repetitions, as we have seenwith the operator Inch.
It is done in thecombination of B and ~3"(18) B~ = B(~3) :  She began to cough;it began to sparkle; I stopped hiscalling you.B(I~ I) = B(F(I~I)): He began jog-ging of half an hour (= half an houreach day).G gives the effect of iteration too, ifG is associated with a bounded proposit io~such as ~2, ~3' I~I"(19) G~ 2 =~2:  He continues going toTokyo Station; G .. Cont; ~2 .- hegoes to Tokyo StationCombination of the operators F,G withother operators can also give similareffects?
(20) I (G~)  = I(~ ~3): It was sparklingfor an hour.G(F(X ~) )  = F (~ ~3): It continuedto spark~ ~very two mlnutes.7.4 Multiple Structure of IterationA repeated event, (which in fact hasdurative character like ~I), can againbe given a boundary.
And this renewed bou~ded event can again be repeated?
Thismakes a multiple iteration?
The iterationcan be explicit or implicative.
(21) G~2: Elle prend des legons de piano.B(Z ~2): Elle a commenc~ ~ prendredes le$ons de piano.N(B(X ~2)): A trois reprises elle acommenc~ ~ prendre des legons de piano.The following examples given by Freedhave also a multiple iterative structure,'a series of series' according to her ter-minology.
(22) N(~ ~3): She sneezes a lot.B (G(~3)  : She began to cough(after years of smoking)?7.5 Order of OperationsThe scope of each operator is notunambiguously definable.
However theirmutual relation can be indicated more orless like the following?f ?
N~?
F ~i?
?
B ~.
G--Figure IThe direction of an arrow in the figureindicates the written order of two ooera-tors in a form.
The order of applicationin the operation is therefore inverse.8 EVENT AND BACKGROUNDIt is often proposedto  distinguishan event from its background (or itsoccasion)?
The background is a timestretch in which the event takes place?From a pure theoretical viewpoint, theidea of the double structure of event-background is very helpful for analysisof ambiguous structures?I ex.
La toupie a tourn~ trois fois.In this expression, 'trois fois' can beeither the number of occurrences ofthe event (i.e.
number of spins of thetop) or the number of occasions on whichthe top spun.
With the iterative operatorsthe difference can be given clearly: N~3and N(~3) ?
In the former case, the topspun three times on one occasion and inthe latter case, the top spun severaltimes on three occasions.The operators N,F,I are related withboth the event and the background.Graphically the difference can be indi-cated as the figure 2.
2I This example is borrowed from Rohrer.2 The first graph (hT~3) is also borrowedfrom Rohrer.t9La toupie a tourn4 trois fois.La toupie a tourn~ trois foiso(= ~ trois occasions)La toupie a tourn~ pendantune minute.N(Z ~3)N=3I(x ~3)~ ~ '  I& I minuteFigure 2Operationally, if we differentiate thebackground from the event on the level ofiterative operations, the rules must betoo complicated.
For the time beingthe operators N,F, I are used regardlesswhether they operate on the event or onthe occasion.9 NAGATION OF THE ITERATIVE PROPOSITIONSAs for the negative cases of itera-tire operations, there are severalpossibilities.
Either a negeted iterativeproposition remains still iterative or itbecomes a non-iterative proposition.
Inother words, the negation affectsthe whole proposition in the case of totalnegation, and affects just the number ofrepetitions or the frequency in the caseof partial negation.
In the former casethe scope of the nagation is larger thanthat of the iteration, and in the lattercase, the scope of the negation is smallerthan that of the iteration.
(23) N@3: I1  est venu deux fois~(N@5) or rather ~3: I1  n'estjamais venu.
(Total negation)(~N)@3: I1  n'est pas venu deux fois.
(En effe%, il n'est venu qu'une lois.
)(Partial negation)N(~@3): I1 n'esz pas venu deux fois.D4j~ deux fois il n'est pas venu.F~3: I1  sortait trois fois parsemalns.~(F~3) or rather ~@3: I1  n'estjamais sorti.
(Total negation)(~F)@3: I1  ne sortait pas trois foispar semaine: en effet il ne sortaitque deux fois par semaine.
(partialnegation)F (~3) :  Trois jours par semaine, ilne sortait pas.It depends on which stage of the opera-tions the negation is applied.10 INTERPRETATION AND CONCORDANCE RULESSeveral kinds of interpretationrules are in view.
The interpretationrules of the first category are thosewhich give adequate interpretations toN@I, F~ I etc, in consideration of thecontext on the pragmatic level.
N@I gainsusually an interpretation of N~2, and F~Ithat of F@2.
For example, "I walkedthree times this week" can be interpretedas: "I walke@ three times from the houseto the station this week.
"The second interpretation rules areconcordance rules, which connect diverseexpressions with one same event.Different expressions in appearence ordifferent means of expressions are inter-connected by these rules.
Eventually,the distinction of the background fromthe event can be effectuated by certainrules.REFERENCESBennett,M 1981: Of tense and Aspect: OneAnalysis; Syntax and Semantics vol 14Tedeschi, Ph.
& A. Zaenan (eds) 13-29Carlson,L.
1981: Aspect and Quantifica-tion; Syntax and Semantics vol 14,31-64Freed,A.F 1972: The S~mantics of EnglishAspectual Complementation,D.Reidel.Imbs,P.
1960: L'emploi des temps verbauxen fran~ais moderns,Paris.Mourelatos,A.P.D.
1981: Events, Processesand States; Syntax and Semantics vol 14191-212.Rohrer,Ch.
1980: L'analyse logique destemps du  pass~ en frangais,comment onpeut appliquer la distinction entre nomde mati~re et nom comptable aux tempsdu verbe; 8th Coling Proceeding.Stump,G.T.
1981: The Interpretation of FrFrequency Adjectives; Linguistics andPhilosophy 4, 221-257.Verkuyl,H.J.
1980: On the proper Classifi.cation of Events and Verb Phrases;Theoretical Linguistics 7, 137-153Yamada,S.
1981: Situationen, Begriffe undAusdrGcke des Aspekts; die DeutscheLiteratur 66, 115-125.Yamada,S.
(to appear): Aspect.20
