KNOWLEDGE ENGINEERING APPROACH TO MORPHOLOGICAL ANALYSIS*Harri J~ppinen I , Aarno Lehtola, EsaNelimarkka 2, and Matti YlilammiHelsinki University of TechnologyHelsinki, FinlandABSTRACTFinnish is a highly inflectional language.
Averb can have over ten thousand different surfaceforms - nominals slightly fewer.
Consequently, amorphological analyzer is an important componentof a system aiming at "understanding" Finnish.This paper briefly describes our rule-based heu-ristic analyzer for Finnish nominal and verbforms.
Our tests have shown it to be quiteefficient: the analysis of a Finnish word in arunning text takes an average of 15 ms of DEC 20CPU-time.I INTRODUCTIONThis paper briefly discusses the applicationof rule-based systems to the morphological analy-sis of Finnish word forms.
Production systems seemto us a convenient way to express the stronglycontext-sensltive segmentation of Finnish wordforms.
This work demonstrates that they can beimplemented to efficiently perform segmentationsand uncover their interpretations.For any computational system aiming atinterpreting a highly inflectional language, suchas Finnish, the morphological analysis of wordforms is an important component.
Inflectional suf-fixes carry syntactic and semantic informationwhich is necessary for a syntactic and logicalanalysis of a sentence.In contrast to major Indo-European languages,such as English, where morphological analysis isoften so simple that reports of systems processingthese languages usually omit morphologicaldiscussion, the analysis of Finnish word forms isa hard problem.A few algorithmic approaches, i.e.
methodsusing precise and fully-informed decisions, to amorphological analysis of Finnish have beenreported.
Brodda and Karlsson (1981) attempted tofind the most probable morphological segmentationfor an arbitrary Finnish surface-word form withouta reference to a lexicon.
They report surprisinglyhigh success, close to 90 %.
However, their systemneither transforms stems into a basic form, norfinds morphotactic interpretations.
Karttunen et*This research is being supported by SITRA (FinnishNational Fund for Research and Development)P.O.
Box 329, 00121Helsinki 12, FinlandIDigitalSystems Laboratory21nstitu~e of Mathematicsal.
(1981) report a LISP-program which searches ina root lexicon and in four segment tables foradjacent parts, which generate a given surface-word form.
Koskenniami (1983) describes a rela-tional, symmetric model for analysis, as well asfor production of Finnish word forms.
He, too,uses a word-root lexicon and suffix lexicons tosupport comparisons between surface and lexicallevels.Our morphological analyzer MORFIN was plannedto constitute the first component in our forth-coming Finnish natural-language database querysystem.
We therefore rate highly a computationallyefficient method which supports an open lexicon.Lexical entries should carry the minimum ofmorphological information to allow a casual userto add new entries.We relaxed the requirement of fully informeddecisions in favor of progressively generated andtested plausible heuristic hypotheses, dressed inproduction rules.
The analysis of a word in ourmodel represents a multi-level heuristic search.The basic control strategy of MORFIN resembles theone more extensively exploited in the Hearsay-IIsystem (Erman et al,1980).II FINNISH MORPHOTACTICSFinnish morphotactics is complex by any ordi-nary standard.
Nouns, adjectives and verbs takenumerous different forms to express case, number,possession, tense, mood, person and other morphemecategories.
The problem of analysis is greatlyaggravated by context sensitivity.
A word stem mayobtain different forms depending on the suffixesattached to it.
Some morphemes have stem-dependentsegments, and some segments are affected by othersegments juxtaposed to it.Due to lack of space, we outline here onlythe structure of Finnish nominals.
The surfaceform of a Finnish nominal ~ay be composed of thefollowing constituents (parentheses denoteoptionality) :(I) root + ste~ending + number + case+ (possessive) + (clitic)The stem endings comprise a large collectionof highly context-sensitive segments which linkthe word roots with the number and case suffixesin phonologically sound ways.
The authorative Dic-tionary of Contemporary Finnish classifies nomi-49nals into 85 distinct paradigms based on thevariation in their stem endings in the nominative,genetive, partitive, essive, and illative cases.The plural in a nominal is signaled by an 'i','j', 't', or the null string (4) depending on thecontext.
The fourteen cases used in Finnish areexpressed by one or more suffix types each.Furthermore, consonant gradation may take place inthe roots and stem endlngs with certain manifesta-tions of 'p', 't' or 'k'.As an example, consider the word 'pursi'(=yacht).
The dictionary representation 'pu~ si 42'indicates the root 'put', .
the stem ending 'si' inthe nominative singular case, and the paradigmnumber 42.
Among others, we have the inflections(2) pur + re + d + lla + mne + kin(=also on our yacht)put + s + i + lla + nme + ko(=on our yachts?
)Consonant gradation takes place, forinstance, in the word 'tak~ i 4' (=coat) asfollows:(3) tak + i + ~ + ssa + ni (=in my coat)tak--k + e + i + hi + ni (=into my coats)III DESCRIPTION OF THE HEURISTIC METHODA.
Control StructureOur heuristic method uses the hypothesis-and-test paradigm used in many AI systems.
A globaldatabase is divided into four distinct levels.Productions, which carry local heuristicknowledge, generate or confirm hypotheses betweentwo levels as shown in the figure.input sur face-word  fo rm leve l> '"I Imorpheme ~product ions  morphote?Uo levels tem bes lu  - wordpr oduct ions  fo rm leve ld ic t ionary  conf i rmat ionlook*up  leve l)outputFigure.
The control structure of MORFIN.B.
Morpheme ProductionsMorpheme productions recognize legal morpho-logical surface-segment configurations in a word,and slice and interprete the word accordingly.
Weuse directly the allomorphic variants of themorphemes.
Since possible segment configurationsoverlap, several mutually exclusive hypotheses areusually produced on the morphotactic level.
Allvalid interpretations of a homographic word formare among them.The extracted rules were packed and compiledinto a network of 33 distinct state-transitionautomata (3 for clitic, I for person, 6 for tense,3 for case, 2 for number, 5 for adjective com-paration, 3 for passive, 5 for participle, and 5for infinitive segments).
These automata weregenerated by 204 morpheme productions of the form:(4) name: (2nd_context)(Ist context)segment -->POSTULATE-~int er pr etat i on, next )'Segment' exhibits an allomorph; the optional'Ist' and '2nd contexts' indicate 0 to 2 left-contextual letters.
The operation POSTULATEseparates a recognized segment, attaches aninterpretation to it, and proceeds to the indi-cated automata ('next').
For example, the produc-tion(5) LZ~n --> POSTULATE(\[gen,sg,...\],~TGMI, NUM2, PAR I, PAR4, PAR5, INF3, INF4, COMP4\] )recognizes the substring 'n', if preceeded by avowel, as an allomorph for the singular genetivecase, separates 'n', and proceeds in parallel totwo automatons for number, three for participles,two for infinitive, and one for comparation.C.
Stem ProductionsStem productions are case- and number-specific heuristic rules (genus-, mood- and tense-speslflc for verbs) postulating nominative singu-lar nouns as basic forms (Ist infinitive forverbs) which, under the postulated morphotacticinterpretation, might have resulted in theobserved stem form on the morphotactic level.
Theymay reject a candidate stem-form as an impossibletransformation, or produce one or more basic-formhypotheses.The Reverse Dictionary of Finnish lists closeto 100 000 Finnish words sorted backwards.
Foreach word the dictionary tags its syntacticcategory and the paradigm number.
From that corpuswe extracted heuristic information about equiva-lence classes of stem behavior.
This knowledge wedressed into productions of the following form:(6) condition --> POSTULATE(cut,string,shift)If the condition of a production issatisfied, a basic-form hypothesis is postulatedon the basic word-form level by cutting therecognized stem, adding a new string (separated bya blank to indicate the boundary between the rootand the stem ending), and possibly shifting theblank.
These operations are indicated by the argu-ments 'cut', 'string', and 'shift'.
A well-formedcondition (WFC) is defined recursively as follows.Any letter in the Finnish alphabet is a WFC, andsuch a condition is true if the last letter of astem matches the letter.
If &1 ,&2,-.. ,&n are WFCs,then the following constructions are also WFCs:(7) (1) &2&l(II) <&1 ,&2, ?
?
?
,&n >50(I) is true if &1 and &2 are true, in thatorder, under the stipulation that the recognizedletters in a stem are consomed.
(II) is true if&1 or &2 or ... or &n is true.
The testing in (II)proceeds from left to right and halts if recogni-tion occurs.
The recognized letters are cons~ed.A capital letter can be used as a macro name for aWFC.
For example, a genetive 'n'-specific produc-tion(8) <Ka,y>hde ~> POSTULATE(3,'ksi',0)('K' is an abbreviation for <d,f,g,h...>- the consonants) recognizes, among other stems,the genetive stem 'kahde' and generates the basicform hypothesis 'ka ksi' (: two).We collected 12 sets of productions for nomi-nal and 6 for verb stems.
On average, a set hasabout 20 rules.
These sets were compiled into 18efficient state-transition automata.We could also apply productions to consonantgradation.
However, since a Finnish word can haveat most two stems (weak and strong), MORFIN tradesstorage for computation and stores double stems inthe lexicon.D.
Dictionary Look-upThe dictionary lock-up procedure confirms orrejects the baslc-word form hypotheses that haveproliferated from the previous stages by matchingthem against the lexicon.
Thus in MORFIN the onlymorphological information a dictionary entrycarries is the boundary between the root and thestem ending in the basic-word form and grade.
Allother morphological knowledge is stored in MORFINin an active form as rules.In MORFIN, input words are totally analyzedbefore a reference to the lexicon happens.
Con-sequently, also words not existing in the lexiconare analyzed.
This fact and the simple lexicalform make it easy to add new words in the lexicon:a user simply chooses the right alternative(s)from postulated baslc-word form hypotheses.IV DISCUSSIONMORFIN has been fully implemented in standardPASCAL and is in the final stages of testing.
Thelexicons contain nearly 2000 most frequent Finnishwords.
In addition to one lexicon for nominals,and one for verbs, MORFIN has two "front" lexiconsfor unvarying words, and words with slightvariation (pronouns, adverbs etc.
and those withexceptional forms).Currently MORFIN does not  analyze compoundnouns into parts (as Karttunen et al (1981) andKoskenniemi (1983) do).
By modifying our systemslightly we could do this by calling the systemrecursively.
We rejected this kind of analysisbecause the semantics of many compounds must bestored as separate lexical entries in our databaseinterface anyway.
MORFIN does not 2roduce word?
forms as the other two systems do.With respect to the goals we set, our testsrate MORFIN quite well (J~ppinen et al, 1983).Lexical entries are simple and their addition iseasy.
On average, only around 4 basic-word formhypotheses are produced on the basic-word formlevel.
The analysis of a word in randomly selectednewspaper texts takes about 15 ms of DEC 2060 CPU-time.
Karttunen et al (1981) report on theirsystem that "It can analyze a short unambiguousword in less than 20 ms \[DEC-2060/Interlisp\] ... along word or a compound ... can take ten timeslonger."
Koskenniemi (1983) writes that "with alarge lexicon it L1~is system\] takes about 0 .1CPUseconds EBurroughs B7800/PASCAL\] to analyze areasonably complicated word form.
"Both Karttunen et al (1981) and Koskenniemi(1983) proceed from left to right and compare aninput word with forms generated from lexicalentries.
It is not clear how such models explainthe phenomenon that a native speaker of Finnishspontaneously analyzes also granm~atical butmeaningless word forms.
Most Finns would probablyagree that, for instance, 'vimpuloissa' is aplural inessive form of a meaningless word'vimpula'.
How can a model based on comparisonfunction when there is no lexical entry to be com-pared with?
Our model encounters no problems withnew or meaningless words.
'Vimpuloissa', if givenas an input, would produce, among others, thehypothesis 'vimpul a' with correct interpretation.It would be rejected only because it is a non-existent Finnish word.ACKNOWLEDC~TSLauri Carlson has given us helpful linguisticcomments.
Vesa Yl~J~ski and Panu VilJamaa haveimplemented parts of MORFIN.
We greatly appreciatetheir help.REFERENCESBrodda, B. and Karlsson, F., An experiment withautomatic morphological analysis of Finnish.
Un.of Stockholm, Insitute of Linguistics, Publica-tion 40, 1981.Erman, L.D.
et al, The Heareay-II speech-understanding system: integrating knowledge toresolve uncertainty.
Computing Surveys, Vol.
12,No 2, (June, 1980), 213-253.J~ppinen H., Lehtola, A., Nelimarkka, E., and Yli-l~ i ,  M., Morphological analysis of Finnish: aheuristic approach.
Helsinki University of Tech-nology, Digital Systems Laboratory, 1983(forthcoming report).K~rlsson, F., Finsk Gra~m~tik.
Suomalaisen Kir-jallisuuden Seura, 1981.Karttunen, L., Root, R., and Uszkoreit, H.,TEXFIN: Morphological analysis of Finnish bycomputer.
The 71st Ann.
Meeting of the SASS,Albuquerque, 1981.Koskenniemi, K., Two-level model for morphologicalanalysis.
IJCAI-83, 1983, 683-685.51
