FALLIBLE RATIONALISM AND MACHINE TRANSLATIONGeoffrey SampsonDepartment of L inguist ics  ~ Modern Engl ish LanguageUnivers i ty  of LancasterLANCASTER LAI-4YT, G.B.ABSTRACTApproaches  to MT have been heavi ly  inf luencedby changing trends in the phi losophy of languageand mind.
Because of the art i f ic ia l  h iatus whichfol lowed the publ icat ion of the ALPAC Report, MTresearch in the 197Os and ear ly 198Os has had tocatch up with major  developments  that have occurredin l inguist ic and phi losophical  thinking; current-ly, MT seems to be uncr i t ica l ly  loyal to a para-d igm of thought about language which is rapidlylosing most of its adherents in departments  ofl inguist ics and philosophy.
I argue, both intheoretical terms and by reference to empir icalresearch on a part icu lar  t ranslat ion problem, thatthe Popperian "fa l l ib le rat ional ist"  view of mentalprocesses which is winning acceptance as a moresophist icated a l ternat ive to Chomskyan "determin-ist ic rat ional ism" should lead MT researchers toredef ine their goals and to adopt certa in current-ly -neglected techniques in trying to ach ieve thosegoals.I.
Since the Second World War, three rival viewsof the nature of the human mind have competed forthe a l leg iance of ph i losophica l ly -minded people.Each of these views has impl icat ions for ourunderstand ing of language.The 195Os and early 1960s were dominated by sbehaviour ist  approach tracing its ancestry  to JohnLocke and represented recent ly e.g.
by LeonardBloomfield and B.F. Skinner.
On this view, "mind"is mere ly  a name for a set of assoc iat ions thathave been establ ished dur ing a person's l ifebetween external  st imul i  and behavioural  responses.The meaning of a sentence is to be understood notas the effect  it has on an unobservable  internalmodel of real ity but as the behaviour  it evokes inthe hearer.Dur ing the 1960s this view lost ground to therat ional ist  ideas of Noam Chomsky, work ing in anintel lectual  tradit ion founded by Plato and rein-augurated in modern times by Hone Descartes.
Onthis view, stimuli  and responses are l inked onlyindirectly, via an immensely complex cognit ivemechanism having J ts own fixed pr inciples of oper-at ion which are independent of experience.
Agiven behaviour is a response to an internal mentalevent which is determined as the resultant of theinit ial state of the mental  apparatus together withthe entire h istory of inputs to it.
The meaning ofa sentence must be expla ined in terms of the unseenresponses it evokes in the cognit ive apparatus,which might take the form of successive modi f ic -at ions of an internal model  of real i ty that couldbe descr ibed as " inferencing".Chomskyan rat ional ism is undoubtedly  moresat is factory as an account  of human cognit ion thanSkinner ian behaviourism.
By the late 197Os, how-ever, the mechanica l  determin ism that is part ofChomsky's  view of mind appeared increas ingly  unre-a l is t ic  to many writers.
There is l i tt le empir ica lsupport, for instance, for the Chomskyan assumpt-ions that the chi ld 's  acquis i t ion  of his f irstlanguage, or the adult 's  comprehens ion of a givenutterance, are processes that reach wel l -def inedterminat ions af ter  a given period of mental  pro-cess ing -- language seems typical ly to work in amore "open-ended" fashion than that.
With inl inguist ics,  as documented e.g.
by Moore ~ Car l ing(1982), the ChomsMyan parad i~ is hy now widelyrejected.The view which is w inn ing widespread accept-ance as preserv ing the mer i ts  of rat ional ismwhi le avo id ing its inadequacies is Karl Pepper'sfa l l lb i l is t  vers ion of the doctr ine.
On thisaccount, the mind responds to exper ient ia l  inputsnot by a determin ist ic  a lgor i thm that reaches ahalt  state, but by creat ive ly  formulat ing fal l ib leconjectures which exper ience is used to test.Typical ly  the conjectures formulated are radical lynovel, in the sense that they could not be pre-dicted even on the basis of ideal ly completeknowledge of the person's prior state.
Thisvers ion of rat ional ism is incompat ib le  with themater ia l i s t  doctr ine that the mind is nothing butan arrangement  of matter  and whol ly  governed bythe laws of physics; but, h istor ical ly,  mater ia l -ism has not commonly been regarded as an axiomrequi r ing no argument to support  it (although itmay be that the ethos of Ar t i f i c ia l  Inte l l igencemakes pract i t ioners of this d isc ip l ine more thanaveragely favourable towards mater ia l ism).As a matter  of logic, fa l l ib le conjectures inany domain can be e l iminated by adverse exper iencebut can never be decis ive ly  confirmed.
Ourreact ion to l inguist ic  experience, consequently~is for a Popper ian both non-determin ist ic  andopen-ended.
There is no reason to expect a personat any age to cease to improve his knowledge ofhis mother-tongue,  or to expect d i f ferent  membersof a speech-community  to formulate identicalinternal ized grammars; and understand ing an indiv-idual ut terance is a process which a person can86execute to any desired degree of thoroughness --we stop trying to improve our understanding of apart icular  sample of language not because we reacha natural stopping-place but because we judge thatthe returns from further effort  are l ikely to beless than the resources invested.For a Chomskyan linguist, d ivergences betweenindividuals in the i r  l inguist ic  behaviour are to beexpla ined either in terms of mixture of "dialects"or in terms of fai lure of pract ical  "performance"fully to match the abstract  "competence" possessedby the mature speaker.
For the Popper ian suchdivergences require no explanation; we do notpossess a lgor i thms which would lead to correctresults if they were executed thoroughly.
Indeed,since languages have no real i ty independent oftheir speakers, the idea that there exists a"correct" solut ion to the problem of acquir ing alanguage or of understanding an individual sent-ence ceases to apply except as an untheoret ica lapproximation.
The super ior i ty  of the Popperianto the Chomskyan paradigm as a framework forinterpret ing the facts of l inguist ic  behaviour isargued e.g.
in my Making Sense (1980), PopperianL inguist ics (in press).2.
There is a major  d i f ference in style betweenthe MT of the 1950s and 1960s, and the projects ofthe last decade.
This ref lects the di f ferencebetween behaviour ist  and determin is t ic - rat iona l i s tparadigms.
Speaking very broadly, ear ly MTresearch envisaged the problem of t ranslat ion asthat of establ ish ing equivalences between observ-able, surface features of languages: vocabularyitems, taxemes of order, and the like.
Recent MTresearch has taken it as axiomat ic  that successfulMT must incorporate a large AI component.
Humantranslation, it is now realized, involves theunderstanding of source texts rather than meretransl i terat ion from one set of l inguist ic  con-ventions to another: we make heavy use of infer-encing in order to resolve textual ambiguit ies.MT systems must therefore simulate these inferenc-ing processes in order to produce human- l ike out-put.
Furthermore, the Chomskyan paradigm incorp-orates axioms about the kinds of operat ion char-acter ist ic  of human l inguist ic  processing, and MTresearch inherits these.
In particular, Chomskyand his  fol lowers have been host i le  to the ideathat any interest ing l inguist ic rules or processesmight be probabi l ist ic  or stat ist ical  in rmture(e.g.
Chomsky 1957: 15-17, and of.
the controversyabout Labovian "variable rules").
The assumptionthat human language-process ing is invar iably ana l l -or -none phenomenon might well  be quest ionedeven by someone who subscr ibed to the other tenetsOf the Chomskyan paradigm (e.g.
Suppes 1970), butit is consistent with the heavi ly  determinist icf lavour of that paradigm.
Correspondingly,  recentMT projects known to me seem to make no use ofprobabil i t ies, and anecdotal  evidence suggeststhat MT (and other AI)  researchers perceive pro-posals for the explo i tat ion of probabi l ist ic  tech-niques as defeat ist  ("We ought to be model l ingwhat the mind actual ly  does rather than usingpurely art i f ic ia l  methods to achieve a roughapproximat ion to its output").3.
What are the impl icat ions for MT, and for AIin general, of a shift from a determin ist ic  to afa l l ib i l ist  version of rat ional ism?
(On thegeneral issue see e.g.
the exchange betweenArav ind  Joshi and me in Smith 1982.)
They can besummed Up as follows.First, there is no such thing as an idealspeaker's competence which, if s imulated mechanic-ally, would  const i tute perfect MT.
In the case of" l i terary" texts it is general ly  recognised thatd i f ferent  human translators may produce markedlyd i f ferent translat ions none of which can  be con-s idered more "correct" than the others; from thePopper ian viewpoint l i terary texts do not d i f ferqual i tat ive ly  from other genres.
(Referr ing tothe translat ion requirements of the Secretar iat  ofthe Counci l  of the European Communit ies,  P.J.A r thern  (1979: 81) has said that "the only qual i tywe can accept  is i00~0 f idel i ty to the meaning ofthe original".
From the fa l l ib i l ist  point of v iewthat is l ike saying "the only kind of motors weare wi l l ing to use are perpetual -mot ion machines".
)Second, there is no possibi l i ty of des igningan art i f ic ia l  system which s imulates the act ionsof an unpredictably  creat ive mind, since anymachine is a mater ia l  object governed by physicallaw.
Thus it wil l  not, for instance, be possibleto des ign an art i f ic ia l  system which regular lyuses inferencing to resolve the mean ing  of giventexts in the same way as a human reader of thetexts.
There is no pr incipled barrier, of course,to an art i f ic ia l  system which appl ies logicalt ransformations to der ive conclus ions from ~ivenpremisses.
But an art i f ic ia l  system must berestr icted to some fixed, perhaps very large, data-base of premisses ("world knowledge").
It iscentral to the Popperian view of mind that humaninferencing is not l imited to a fixed set of pre-misses but involves the frequent invent ion of newhypotheses which are not related in any logicalway to the previous contents of mind.
An MTsystem cannot aspire to perfect human performance.
(But then, neither can a human.
)Third: a s i tuat ion in which the behaviour ofany individual  is only approximate ly  s imilar tothat of other indiv iduals and is not in detai lpredictable even in pr inciple is just the kind ofs i tuat ion in which probabi l ist ic  techniques arevaluable, i r respect ive of whether  or not the pro-cesses occurr ing wi th in  individual  humans arethemselves intr ins ical ly  probabi l ist ic.
To drawan analogy: l i fe- insurance companies do not con-demn the actuar ia l  profess ion as a bunch of cop-outs because they do not attempt to predict theprecise date of death of individual  pol icyholders.MT research ought to explo i t  any techniques thatoffer the possib i l i ty  of better approximat ions toacceptable translation, whether  or not it seemsl ikely that human translat ion exploi ts  such tech-niques; and it is l ikely that useful  methods wi l loften be probabi l ist ic.Fourth: MT researchers wi l l  u l t imately needto appreciate that there is no natural  end to theprocess of improving the qual i ty of t ranslat ion(though it may be premature to raise this issue87at a stage when the best mechanical translation isstill quite bad).
Human translation always invol-ves a (usually tacit) cost-benefit analysis: itis never a question of "How much work is needed totranslate this text 'properly'?"
but of "Will agiven increment of effort be profitable in termsof achieved improvement in translation?"
Likewise,the question confronting MT is not "Is MT poss-ible?"
but "What are the disbenefits Of translat-ing this or that category of texts at this orthat level of inexactness, and how do the costsof reducing the incidence of a given type oferror compare with the gains to the consumers?"4.
The value of probabilistic techniques issufficiently exemplified by the spectacular succ-ess of the Lancaster-Oslo-Bergen Tagging System(see e.g.
Leech et al 1983).
The LOB TaggingSystem, operational since 1981, assigns grammat-ical tags drawn from a highly-differentiated (134-member) tag-set to the words of "real-life"English text.
The system "knows" virtually nothingof the syntax of English in terms of the kind ofgrammar-rules believed by linguists to make up thespeaker's competence; it uses only facts aboutlocal transition-probabilities between form-classes, together with the relatively meagre cluesprovided by English morphology.
By late 1982 theoutput of the system fell short of completesuccess (defined as tagging identical to that doneindependently by a human linguist) by only 3.4%.Various methods are being used to reduce thisfailure-rate further, but the nature of the tech-niques used ensures that the ideal of 100% successwill be approached only asymptotically.
However,the point i s  that no other extant automatic tagg-ing -sys tem known to me approaches the currentsuccess-level of the LOB system.
I predict thatany system which eschews probabilistic methodswill perform at a significantly lower level.5.
In  the  remainder of this paper  I i l lustratethe argument that human language-comprehensioninvolves inferencing from unpredictable hypothes-es, using research of my own on the problem of"referring" pronouns.My research was done in reaction to anarticle by Jerry Hobbs (1976).
Hobbs provides anunusually clear example of the Chomskyan paradigmof AI research, since he makes his methodologicalaxioms relatively explicit.
He begins by defininga complex and subtle algorithm for referring pro-nouns which depends exclusively on the grammaticalstructure of the sentences in which they occur.This algorithm is highly successful: tested on asample of texts, it is 88.3% accurate (a figurewhich rises slightly, to 91.7%, when the algorithmis expanded to use the simple kind of semanticinformation represented by Katz/Fodor "selectionrestrictions").
Nevertheless, Hobbs argues thatthis approach to the problem of pronoun resolutionmust be abandoned in favour of a "semantic algo-rithm", meaning one which depends on inferencingfrom a d@ta-base of world knowledge rather than onsyntactic structure.
He gives several reasons;the important reasons are that the syntacticapproach  can  never  a t ta in  lOOTo success ,  and  thati t  does  not  cor respond to  the  method by  wh ichhumans  reso lve  pronouns .However, unlike Hobbs's syntactic algorithm,his semantic algorithm is purely programmatic.The implication that it will be able to achievei00~ success -- or even that it will be able tomatch the success-level of the existing syntacticalgorithm -- rests purely on faith, though thisfaith is quite understandable given the axioms ofdeterministic rationalism.I investigated these issues by examining aset of examples of the pronoun it drawn from theLOB Corpus (a standard mil l ion-word computer-read-able corpus of modern written British English --see Johansson 1978).
The pronoun i t  is speciallyinteresting in connexion with MT because of theproblems of translation into gender-langu/ages; myexamples were extracted from the texts in CategoryH of the LOB Corpus, which includes governmentaland similar documents and thus matches the genreswhich current large-scale MT projects such asEUROTRA aim to  translate.
I began with 338instances of it; after el iminating non-referentialcases I was left with 156 instances which I exam-ined intensively.I asked the following questions:(i) In what proportion of cases do I as an educ-ated native speaker feel confident about theintended reference?
.
.
.
.
(2) Where I do feel confident and Hobbs's syn-tactic algorithm gives a result which I believe tobe wrong, what kind of reasoning enabled me toreach my solution?
(3) Where Hobbs's algorithm gives what I believeto be the correct result, is it plausible that asemantic algorithm would give the same result?
(4) Could the performance of Hobbs's syntacticalgorithm be improved, as an alternative toreplacing it by a semantic algorithm?It emerged that:(i) In about I0~ of all cases, human resolutionwas impossible; on careful consideration of thealternatives I concluded that I did not know theintended reference (even though, on a firstrelatively cursory reading, most of these caseshad not struck me as ambiguous).
An example is:The lower platen, which supports the leather,is raised hydraulically to bring i t  into contactwith the rollers on the upper platen ... (H6.148)Does it refer to the lower platen or to theleather (la platina, il cuoio:)?
I really don'tknow.
In at least one instance (not this one) Ireached different confident conclusions about thesame case on different occasions (and this sugg-ests that there are likely to be other caseswhich I have confidently resolved in ways otherthan the writer intended).
The implication is88that a system which performs at a level of successmuch above 90~ on the task of resolv ing referent-ial it would be outper forming a human, which iscontradictory: language means what humans take itto mean.
(2) In a number of cases where I judged the syn-tactic a lgor i thm to give the wrong result, thepremisses on which my own decis ions were basedwere proposit ions that were not pieces of factualgeneral knowledge and which I was not aware ofever having consciously enterta ined before pro-ducing them in the course of trying to interpretthe text in question.
It would therefore bequixot ic to suggest that these proposi t ionswould occur in the data-base avai lable to a futureMT system.
Consider, for instance:Under the "permissive" powers, however, inthe worst cases when the Ministry was right andthe M.P.
was right the local author i ty could sti l ldig its heels in and say that whatever the Mini-stry said it was not going to give a grant.
(HI6.24)I feel sure that i_~t refers to the local author i tyrather than the Ministry, chief ly because it seemsto me much more plausible that a lower- levelbranch of government would refuse to heed requestsfor act ion from a higher- level  branch than that itwould accuse the higher- level  branch of deceit.But this general izat ion about the sociology ofgovernment was new to me when I thought it up forthe purpose of interpret ing the example quoted(and I am not certain that it is in fact Univers-al ly true).
(3) In a number of cases it was very di f f icul t  tobel ieve that introduct ion Of semantic consider-at ions into the syntactic a lgor i thm would notworsen its performance.
Here, an example is:... and the Isle of Man.
We do by thesePresents for Us, our Heirs and Successors instit-ute and create a new Medal and We do hereby directthat i__~t shall be governed by the fo l lowing rulesand ordinances ... (H24.16)Hobbs 's  syntactic a lgor i thm refers it to Medal,I believe rightly.
Yet before reading the textI was under the impression that medals, l ike othersmall concrete inanimate objects, could not begoverned; whi le terr i tor ies l ike the Isle of Mancan be, and indeed are.
Syntax is more importantthan semantics in this case.
(4) There are several syntactic phenomena (e.g.paral le l ism of structure between successiveclauses) which turned out to be relevant to pro-noun resolut ion but which are ignored by Hobbs'salgorithm.
I have not undertaken the task of mod-i fy ing the syntactic a lgor i thm in order to exploitthese phenomena, but it seems l ikely that thealready-good performance of the a lgor i thm could befurther improved.It is a lso worth point ing out that accept ingthe legit imacy of probabi l ist ic  methods al lows oneto exploit  many crude (and therefore cheaply-exploited) semantic considerat ions,  such as Katz/Fodor se lect ion restr ict ions,  which have to beleft out of a determinist ic  system because inpract ice they are sometimes violated.
As we haveseen, Hobbs suggested that only a small percentageimprovement in the performance of his pure syntac-tic a lgor i thm could be achieved by adding semanticse lect ion restr ict ions.
Rules such as "the verb'fear' must have an \[+animate\] subject" almostnever prove to be except ionless in real - l i fe usage:even genres of text that appear soberly l iteralcontain many cases of f igurat ive or extended usage.This is one reason why advocates of a "semantic"approach to art i f ic ia l  language-process ing bel ievein us ing relat ively e laborate methods involv ingcomplex inferent ia l  chains -- though they give usl i tt le reason to expect that these techniques toowi l l  not in pract ice be bedevi l led by d i f f icu l t iess imi lar  to those that occur with stra ightforwardselect ion restr ict ions.
However, whi le it may bethat the subject of 'fear' is not a lways an anim-ate noun, it may also be that this is true withmuch more than chance frequency.
If so, an art i -f icial language-process ing system can and shoulduse this as one factor to be balanced againstothers in resolv ing ambigui t ies  in sentences con-taining 'fear'.6.
To sum up: the determin ist ic - rat ional is tphilosophical parad i~ has encouraged MT research-ers to attempt an impossible task.
The fal l ib le-rat ional ist  paradigm requires them to lower theirsights, but may at the same time al low them toatta in greater actual  success .REFERENCESArthern, P.J.
(1979) "Machine translat ion andcomputer ized terminology systems".
In Bar-bara Snell, ed., Trans lat ing and the Computer.North-Hol land.Chomsky, A.N.
(1957) Syntact ic  Structures.
Mou-ton.Hobbs, J.R. (1976) "Pronoun resolution".
ResearchReport 76-1.
Department of Computer  Sciences,City College, City Univers i ty  of New York.Johansson, S. (1978) "Manual  of informat ion toaccompany the Lancaster -Os lo /Bergen Corpus ofBrit ish English, for use with digital  comput-ers".
Department of English, Univers i ty  ofOslo.Leech, G.N., R. Garside, & E. Atwel l  (1983) "Theautomatic  grammatical  tagging of the LOBCorpus".
ICAME News no.
7, pp.
13-33.
Nor-wegian Comput ing Centre for the Humanit ies.Moore, T. & Chr ist ine Car l ing (1982) Understand-ing Language.
Macmil lan.Sampson, G.R.
(1980) Making Sense.
Oxford Uni-versity Press.Sampson, G.R.
(in press) Popper ian Linguist ics.Hutchinson.Smith, N.V., ed.
(1982) Mutual  Knowledge.
Acad-emic Press.Suppes, P. (1970) "Probsbi l ist ic  grammars fornatural  languages".
Synthese vol.
22, pp.95-116.89
