RELATING SYNTAX AND SEMANTICS:THE sYNTACTICO-SEMANTIC LEXICON OF THE SYSTEM VIE-LANGIngeborg Steinacker,  Ernst BuchbergerDepartment of Medical Cybernet icsUnivers i ty of Vienna, AustriaABSTRACTThis paper descr ibes the structureand evaluat ion of the syntact ico-semant iclexicon (SSL) of the German NaturalLanguage Understanding System VIE-LANG\[3\].
VIE-LANG uses an SI-Net \[2\] asinternal representat ion.
The SSL containsthe rules according to which the mappingbetween net-structures and surfacestructures of a sentence is carr ied out.This information is structured in a waythat it can be evaluated from two sides.The parser interprets it asproduct ion-ru les  that control  theanalysis.
Syntact ic and semantic featuresof the input sentence are evaluated andindividuals are created in the semanticnet.
The generator  uses the same rules toexpress selected net-structures inadequate natural language expressions.
Itis shown how both processes can makeeffect ive use of the SSL.
The d i f ferentposs ib i l i t ies  for evaluating the SSL areexplained and i l lustrated by examples.I OVERVIEW OF THE SYSTEM VIE-LANGA.
Representat ionIn the system VIE-LANG real worldknowledge is represented within a semanticnet (SN) which is realized in theformalism of an SI-Net \[2\].
The net isorganized in two layers.The generic layer contains the staticknowledge of the system.
At the genericlevel real world knowledge is representedin the form of concepts and roles.
Aconcept is defined by its attr ibutes whichconsist of two parts: role and valuerestr ict ion.
The value restr ict ion is aconcept which def ines the range ofpossible f i l lers for the attr ibute, therole def ines the relation of the fil ler tothe concept being defined.Generic concepts are organized in ahierarchy of super-  and subconcepts inwhich a subconcept inherits all at t r ibutesof its superconcepts.The second layer of the net containsthe dynamic knowledge which consists  ofindiv idual ized concepts.
The parsercreates indiv iduals of those netstructures which are addressed by theinput words.
As more input is analyzedmore individuals and links are created.These indiv iduals  const i tute the episodiclayer of the net.The conceptual  content of the net isorganized according to the idea ofsemantic pr imit ives \[8\] which arecharacter ized by typical attr ibutes.Act ion pr imit ives have attr ibutes whichcorrespond to cases of a case grammar(AGENT, OBJECT, RECIPIENT, LOCATION, etc.
)\[4\], \[ii\].B.
Parsin@Our parser belongs to the class ofsemantic parsers as suggested by \[i\], \[7\].Since syntax carr ies a lot of informat ionin German it has to be considered inanalysis: The syntactic role of aconst i tuent  cannot be determined byword-order,  instead its morphologica lendings which indicate the surface case ofthe const i tuent  have to be evaluated.The parser is a data-dr iven system,which combines syntactic and semanticprocesses.
Syntax is used as the tool togain information concerning theconst i tuents  of the sentence, but thesyntactic processes interact with semanticones in order to conf irm their hypothesesabout a const ituent.
To recognize NPs andPPs the parser uses an ATN, which acceptssemant ica l ly  valid interpretat ions only.The resultant structures include syntact icand semantic information about theconst i tuent.
These structures are thencol lected in a const i tuent  list.96The semantic representat ion of asentence is bui lt  by l inking theconst i tuents  to the predicate.
Thisprocess is control led by the SSL-entry forthe verb.
F i rst  the dominant verb has tobe d isambiguated \[9\].
SSL entr ies forverbs contain the information howverb-dependent  const i tuents are mappedonto the cases represented within the net.In a last step referents for modi fy ingconst i tuents are determined and attached.A sentence is considered to have beenparsed successfu l ly  after all const i tuentsof the sentence have been incorporated.As a result the parser produces aconf igurat ion of individuals in the net -the semantic representat ion of the input.C.
Generat ionThe task of the generator is toconvert a selected part of the episodiclayer of the semantic net into surfacesentences.
This part - a root node andvert ices and nodes attached to it form acoherent graph - is assumed to have beendetermined previously by the dialoguecomponent.
Generat ion is accompl ished intwo steps: step one performs a mapping ofthe SN to an intermediate structure (IMS)containing words together with syntact icaland morphological  data, and step twotransforms the IMS to surface sentences byapplying syntactical  t ransformations,l inear izat ions and a morphologicalsynthesis.To produce a single sentence, thedominat ing verb is selected first, as itplays a central role in a sentence.
Thesemantic pr imit ives of which the SN iscomposed imply that there is no one-to-onecorrespondence between concepts in the netand words of the language.
Therefore thedecis ion which verb to select depends onthe pattern of individuals in the episodiclayer of the net.
The cr iter ia for thisselect ion are attached to the genericconcept of the root node in form of ad iscr iminat ion net (DN) \[5\].
Its testsevaluate the filled attr ibutes of the rootprimit ive.
The evaluat ion of this DNresults not only in a verb, but in averb-sense.The generator accesses the SSL entryfor this verb-sense and continues byprocessing the di f ferent rules of which itis composed.
The rules are evaluated fromright to left.
Right sides mainly dealwith ent i t ies in the SN, especia l lyindividuals.
If an individual is relevantto generat ion,  it is put on a stack("current individual").
When the leftside is processed, syntactical data alongwith the result of a recursive call ofthis part of the generator is passed tothe IMS.
The current individual (theargument of this call) is then removedfrom the stack and control is returned tothe cal l ing procedure, thus al lowing thenext rule to be processed.
The IMS whichis created during this part of the processforms the input for the step two processorwhich will f inal ly produce the outputsentence \[6\].II THE SYNTACTICO-SEMANTIC LEXICONBy means of the SSL the mappingbetween surface expressions in naturallanguage and structures of therepresentat ion is achieved.
For an NLUdialogue system the relat ion betweensurface and representat ion is of interestin the context of parsing and the contextof generat ing.
The structure of the SSLallows interpretat ion by both processes.Attr ibutes of act ions real ize theideas of a case grammar.
This leads to acorrespondence between roles in the netand surface cases within the sentence.Cases of a case grammar at the one handshow regular i t ies in their re lat ion tosyntact ic const i tuents (subject -> AGENT),at the other hand the relat ion between arole and a surface case is verb-dependent .E.g.
the verb 'bekommen' (to get) relatesthe subject to the role RECIPIENT, theverb 'geben' (to give) relates the subjectto the role SOURCE.
The verb 'geben'requires the RECIPIENT to be expressed bya dative.
Such dependencies are capturedin the entr ies of the SSL whereas theregular i t ies are treated by defaults.A.
Structure of the SSLThe basic unit in the SSL is theentry for a word-sense.
Associated toeach word-sense is an optional number ofpairs which we will descr ibe by the terms'Left Side' (LS) and 'Right Side' (RS).
Apair descr ibes how a word (phrase) of thesentence is represented within thesemantic net.LSs descr ibe features of the surfacesentence.
Most features refer tosyntact ic propert ies,  e .g .
const i tuentsof a given surface case, inf in it iveconstruct ions,  lexical categories,  surfacewords, and  some features indicateselect ional restr ict ions.
If a LScontains more than one feature they arecombined with an operator.
One of themost frequent patterns that is used in LSscombines a syntact ic feature with a netconcept which is interpreted asselect ional restriction.
This combinat ionreflects our general parsing approach tocombine syntax with semantics.97RSs refer most ly  to structures withinthe semantic net.
There is no one-to-onecorrespondence between word-senses andconceptual pr imit ives.
To represent word(or phrase) meanings pr imit ives are l inkedforming more complex structures.
Bydef in i t ion there is one d ist inguishedconcept in each RS 'the root concept'which is the central element of therepresentat ion.
All other structuresreferenced in an RS are l inked to it.A l though the number ofact ion-pr imi t ives  is re lat ively small(14), the net provides poss ib i l i t ies  toexpress d i f ferences between related verbs.This is done by fi l l ing attr ibutes withcertain values by default.
Such anattr ibute does not correspond to aconst i tuent  of the sentence but is 'part'of the verb-sense,  e,g.
'gehen' (to go)is represented by the conceptCHANGE OF LOCATION, 'laufen' (to run)addresSes-the same concept, but itsattr ibute SPEED is filled by a d i f ferentvalue.Not all SSL entr ies are relevant toparser and generator - some entr ies arerelevant to one process only.
This shouldnot be regarded as a disadvantage, on thecontrary, such entr ies support ef f ic ientuse of the SSL.
Since each subsystem hasits own typical way of interpret ingentr ies (LS and RS), process-spec i f icentr ies are simply disregarded by theother system.B.
Evaluat ion of the SSLParser and generator treat theentr ies in the SSL as product ion-ru les ,each interpret ing LS and RS in its ownway.
The parser works from LSs to RSswhereas the generator works in theopposite direct ion.i.
Parsin@The parser needs to mapsur face-const i tuents  onto elements of thesemantic net.
To produce the semanticrepresentat ion of an input word the parseraccesses the SSL entry of this word.
Foreach word there may be several word-senseentries.
The LSs of all word-senseentr ies for a word incorporate theinformation necessary to d ist inguish onesense from the others.
The parserinterprets the LSs as condit ions that haveto be fulf i l led by the input sentence.The SSL contains at least one pair LS - RSfor each word-sense.
In order to choosethe correct interpretat ion the LSs of thedi f ferent word-senses are evaluated.After the parser has chosen a word-senseby matching sentence-patterns andLS-condit ions the associated RSs areinterpreted as act ions and evaluatedsequential ly.
For the parser thestructures in the RS are interpreted asrepresentat ion of the word, therefore theindicated net-structures areindividual ized.
The complete structurethat has been created after all RSs havebeen executed is used as therepresentat ion of the input-word.Verb-entr ies  for example speci fythe relat ion between surface const i tuentsand the cases which are attr ibutes of theaction concept.
Each verb-sense cal ls fora typical sentential  pattern in which eachconst i tuent  has to fulfil certain semanticrestr ict ions.
The parser selects averb-sense if the features of const i tuentsin the const i tuent  list sat isfy thecondit ions of the LSs.
After havingselected one word-sense its RSs areevaluated and the const i tuents are l inkedto the act ion as case-f i l lers.The parser uses the SSL entr iesto d isambiguate verbs.
The LSsincorporate the factors by whichword-senses can be d iscr iminated from eachother.
For many verbs the select ionalrestr ict ion of the direct object  is adecis ive factor.
E.g.
the verb'bekommen' (to get) is interpreted asOBJTRANS iff the semantic restr ict ion ofthe direct  object belongs to the classOWNABLE-OBJECT (see Fig.
i).
Themechanisms by which disambigua tion iscarr ied out if the LS is not met isexplained elsewhere \[10\].
(BEKOMMEN(i\[(AND (CASE ACC)(RESTR OWNABLE-OBJECT))((IND OBJTRANS)(VAL + OBJECT *))\]\[ (T (CASE NOM))---->((VAL + RECIPIENT *))\]\[(AND (PP VON)(RESTR PERSON INSTITUTION))((VAL + SOURCE *))\]))Fig.
1SSL entry for 'bekommen', word-sense- i('to get an object')When the parser analyses thesentence 'Hans bekommt von dieser Frau einBuch.'
(John gets a book from this woman.
)there are three const i tuents  on theconst i tuent  list.98Interpretat ion of the first pairof the entry for bekommen-i  leads to theinstant iat ion of the root concept OBJTRANS(RS: (IND OBJTRANS)) and the creat ion ofthe value OBJECT fil led by therepresentat ion of book.The parameter '+' refers to theroot individual fo r  all pairs of theword-sense entry.
For the parser theparameter '*' in the SSL refers to therepresentat ion of the const i tuent selectedby the LS which is local to one pair.The second pair leads to theinstant iat ion of the value RECIPIENTfilled by the representat ion for 'Hans'and the third one f inally instant iatesSOURCE fil led by the representat ion of'Frau'.
The resulting representat ion ofthe sentence is shown in Fig.
2.ect / ~ u r c e/~rec ip ientnameFig.
2Net structure for'Hans bekommt yon dieser Frau ein Buch.
'Act ion primit ives typical ly havean AGENT and an OBJECT attr ibute.
In mostcases their surface equivalents aresubject and direct object respectively.Therefore it would be redundant to includethese relat ions for every verb.
In thesecases only the root concept is given inthe RS (see Fig.
3).
The mapping iscarried out by default  mechanisms whichare applied whenever the LSs do not referto subject or direct object.
(ESSEN(i\[(T) - ->(( IND INGEST))\]))Fig.
3SSL entry for 'essen' , word-sense- i('to eat')In the default  cases theselect ional  restr ict ions are checkedimplicit ly.
The net does not al lowinstant iat ion of structures that do notcorrespond to the patterns given in thegeneric concepts.
If this occurs e.g.
inthe sentence 'He will eat his hat.'
anerror-message is generated because thesemantic concept for 'hat', GARMENT, isnot compat ib le with the restr ict ionSUBSTANCE for the OBJECT of the conceptINGEST.
At this stage of development wedo not loosen selectional restr ict ions assuggested by Wilk 's preference semantics\[12\].2.
GeneratorWhen generat ing a sentence, thegenerator  starts by regarding the rootnode which has been passed to it by thedialogue component.
Normally, this rootnode will, together with the attr ibutesattached to it, correspond to a verb, sothis verb is selected first.
As ment ionedabove, a d iscr iminat ion net is used toaccomplish this task.
The DN selects averb-sense according to the attr ibutes ofthe root node.We will show the furtherprocessing by means of the example shownin Fig.
2.
Let us assume the verb-sense 1of the verb 'bekommen' (Fig.
I) hasalready been selected.
The entr ies of theSSL are treated from right to left by thegenerator,  so we start with (INDOBJTRANS).
This will result in a nullaction for the generator,  as an instanceof OBJTRANS (OBJTRANS-II) is a lready knownas current root node and it has been putas first element onto the stack for thecurrent individual.
(VAL + OBJECT *) isconsidered next.
+ denotes the root node,* the~ individual attached to that role ofit which is specif ied by the secondparameter,  i.e.
OBJECT.
This element,namely BOOK-4, is put on the stack.Now the generator proceeds withthe LS: (CASE ACC) is a recursive call tothe generator  with the current individual,BOOK-4, as new root node together with theinformation that the result shall bearaccusat ive case endings.
The generatorprocesses the DN for the concept 'BOOK'and returns 'Buch'.
This lexeme togetherwith the case information now forms partof the IMS.
After having processed thecurrent individual BOOK-4, it is removedfrom the stack.
The action (RESTROWNABLE OBJECT) results in a no-op for thegenerat~r,  as this information has alreadybeen processed in the DN when deciding touse the verb-sense 'bekommen-l'  (seebelow).The second RS-LS-pair is treatedin a similar way: The individual attached99to RECIPIENT is put on the stack, (CASENOM) calls the generator with PERSON-9 asnew root node and says that the resultantstructure shall be rendered as anominat ive.
The DN of PERSON suppl ies theinformation that persons are bestspecif ied by their names (if present inthe net - if not, other cr i ter ia areconsidered) , and so the word 'Hans'completes the structure being passed tothe IMS.As for the lasttest -act ion-pair ,  Pp causes apreposit ional  phrase, 'yon der Frau', tobe created.
In German, the preposi t ion'yon' implies dative case, so noaddit ional  entry (CASE DAT) is required inthe SSL.
(Note that this omiss ion enablesthe parser to ignore case errors in theinput sentence that do not inf luence thesemantics.)3.
Creat ing Discr iminat io  n NetsSo far, the use of the SSL hasbeen demonstrated only part ial ly:  in theexample above some of the e lements in RSsand LSs have been treated as no-ops,especia l ly  INDIV and RESTR.
Theseelements, instead of being used in theprocess of generat ion,  provide informationfor bui lding data structures for thegenerator,  namely the above ment ioned DNs.AS an example, consider theentry for 'bekommen' (Fig.
i), (INDIVOBJTRANS) informs us about acorrespondence between the conceptOBJTRANS and the verb-sense 'bekommen-l 'This correspondence leads to theincorporat ion of 'bekommen-l '  as a leafnode in the DN for the concept OBJTRANS.Other clues for construct ing the DNs areprovided by the VALs, thus giving them adouble usage: (VAL + RECIPIENT *) in theSSL entry for 'bekommen-l'  (Fig.
i)implies that an individual attached to theRECIPIENT role of an OBJTRANS individualis a prerequis i te for selecting thisverb-sense.
(The absence of a recipientin the net would lead to the select ion of'weggeben' (to give away).
)III SUMMARYWe have shown how a lexicon thatincludes syntactic and semanticinformation has to be structured to al loweff ic ient use by two processes, parser andgenerator.
Whereas both must have accessto knowledge about syntax as well asrepresentat ion,  their starting posi t iondiffers: The parser is confronted withsurface expressions,  therefore LSs areevaluated first.
The generator  has toprocess net structures, so it begins byevaluating RSs.
The reciprocal relationbetween analysis  and synthesis is real izedin the SSL by pair ing off LSs and RSs.F lex ib i l i ty  is insured by the fact thatparser as well as generator  treat LS andRS each in an idiosyncrat ic way.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis research was sponsored by theAustr ian 'Fonds zur Foerderung derwissenschaf t l i chen Forschung',  grant no4158 (supervision Robert Trappl).REFERENCES\[s\]\[i\] Boguraev B.K.
: Automatic Resolut ionof L inguist ic Ambiguit ies,  Univ.
ofCambridge,  Comp.
Laboratory, TR-II ;1979.\[2\] Brachman, R.J.: A StructuralParadigm for Representing Knowledge,Bolt, Beranek and Newman; 1978.\[3\] Buchberger E., Steinacker I., TrapplR., Trost H., Leinfel lner E.:VIE-LANG - A German LanguageUnderstanding System, in: TrapplR.(ed.)
,  Cybernet ics and SystemsResearch, North Holland, Amsterdam;1982.\[4\] F i l lmore C.: The Case for Case, in:Bach E., Harms R.T.
(eds.)
: Uni-versals in Linguist ic Theory, Holt,R inehart  & Winston, New York, 1968.Goldman N.M.: Computer Generat ion ofNatural Language from a DeepConceptual  Base, Stanford AI Lab MemoAIM-247; 1974.\[6\] Horacek H.: Generierung im SystemVIE-LANG: L inguist ischer Teil,TR 83-04, Dept.
of MedicalCybernet ics,  Univ.
of Vienna,Austr ia;  1983.\[7\] Riesbeck, C.K.
and Schank, R.C.
:Comprehens ion by Computer:Expectat ion-based Analysis  ofSentences in Context, Yale Univ.,RR-78; 1976.\[8\] Schank R.C.
: Conceptual InformationProcessing, North-Hol land,  Amsterdam;1975.\[9\] Steinacker I., Trost H., Leinfel lnerE.
: Di sambiguat ion in German, in:Trappl R.
(ed.
), Cybernet ics  andSystems Research, North Hol land,Amsterdam; 1982.\[10\] Steinacker I., Trost H.: StructuralRelat ions - A Case Against Case,Proceedings of the IJCAI 83,Karlsruhe, 1983.\[ii\] Trost H.: Erstel len der inhalt l ichenKomponenten eines Semant ischenNetzes, TR 81-03, Dept.
of MedicalCybernet ics,  Univ.
of Vienna,Austria; 1983.\[12\] Wilks Y.: Making Preferences moreActive, University of Edinburgh,D.A.I., RR-32,1977.i00
