Inquiry Semantics:A Functional Semantics of Natural Language Grammar 1William C. MannUSC/Information Sciences Institute4676 Admiralty WayMarina del Rey, California 90292USASummaryProgramming a computer to operate to a significantdegree as an author is a challenging research task.
Thecreation of fluent multiparagraph text is a complexprocess because knowledge must be expressed inlinguistic forms at several levels of organization,including paragraphs, sentences and words, each ofwhich involves its own kinds of complexity.Accommodating this natural complexity is a difficultdesign problem.
To solve it we must separate thevarious relevant kinds of knowledge into nearlyindependent collections, factoring the problem.Inquiry semantics is a new factoring of the textgeneration problem.
It is novel in that it provides adistinct semantics for the grammar, independent ofworld knowledge, discourse knowledge, text plans andthe lexicon, but appropriately linked to each.
It hasbeen implemented as part of the Nigel text generationgrammar of English.This paper characterizes inquiry semantics, showshow it factors text generation, and describes itsexemplification in NigeL The resulting description ofinquiries for English has three dimensions: thevarieties of operations on information, the varieties ofinformation operated upon, and the subject matter ofthe operations.
The definition framework for inquiriesinvolves both traditional and nontraditional linguisticabstractions, spanning the knowledge to berepresented and the plans required for presenting it.1 IntroductionText generation is the generat ion of language toconform to an a pr io r i  intent ion and plan to communicate.The problem of text generation is naturally complex, requiring the1previous title: Generating Text: Knowledge a Grammar Demands.This research was SUl~ported by the Air Force Office of Scientific Researchcontract No, F49620-79-C-0181.
The views and conclusions contained in thisdocument are those of the author and should not be interpreted as necessarilyrepresenting the official policies or endorsements, either expressed or implied, ofIhe Air Force Office of Scientific Research of the U.S Government.active coordination of many kinds of knowledge havingindependent origins and character.
A significant part of thiscomplexity is in grammatical knowledge.
It is important for thegrammar of a text generator to have its own integrity, yet withoutbeing operationally autonomous.
2The methods of generating text presented here grew out ofa concern to maintain the integrity and definitional independenceof particular existing fragments of grammar.
These methodsemploy the grammar in ways which do not make any strongassumptions about the nongrammatical kinds of knowledge in thetext generator.
They control the use of the grammar ingeneration.We-first describe the methods, showing how they makegrammatical generation possible.
Then we show how they factorthe problem of text generation and clarify the role of knowledgerepresentations.
Finally we characterize inquiry semantics andthe notion of meaning.2 Grammar and ControlPeople often anticipate that a text generator will plan theoperations of the grammar in full detail and then execute suchplans.
In fact, such a mode of operation has serious difficulties,and so it is worthwhile to consider other approaches.
Even giventhe definition of a grammar and a particular way of manipulating itto produce text, there is an issue of where the initiative should beexercised in generation.
Should the responsibility for conformityof ',he result to the given intention and plan lie within Ihe grammarmanipulator, i.e., be part of its process of employing the grammar,or are the details of grammar use preplanned?
It is an issue ofcontrol.2This role of intention in the use of language is one of the reasons for calling thesemantics in this paper a functional semantics Another is our uSe of one of the"functional" linguistic traditions165To see the problem more clearly we can comparecontrolling the grammar to steering a car.If we intend to drive to a nearby store, we canimagine planning the trip (in terms of steering motions)in total detail, deciding just where to turn, changelanes, and so forth, with sufficient precision to insuresuccess.
This detailed plan could in principle then beused to steer the car to the store.
Such methods ofimposed control are practical only in very simplecases.Alternatively, we can make the decisions aboutsteering at the point of need, on demand.Unanticipated conditions are thus allowed for, and thecomplexity of the task is reduced.
(There is no need tocompensate in the plan for tire pressures, for example.
)At each significant point along the way, the driverchooses a direction that conforms to the goal ofreaching the destination.
This is an activeconformity approach, in which decisions aboutdirection are made while the trip is in progress.With imposed control, information about how to satisfy theintention and plan is needed before the process is started.
Withactive conformity, information is needed as the process proceeds.The design of our generation methods is based on activeconformity.
The grammar demands the information it needs aboutthe plan as generation proceeds.What does a purposefully generating grammar need toknow?
As part of the development of the Penman text-generation;,,~gr~m, we have created a large systemic grammar of Englis hiMann 83\].
Penman is designed to create a text plan and thenexecute it by giving it, one sentential element at a time, to thegrRmmar.
The grammar, which is called Nigel, operates on its owninitiative, requesting information about the planned text as it isneeded.
The central organizing concept in the grammar ischoice.
The language offers a variety of grammatical options that:?,~ !~ represented as sets of alternatives, and means forproducing surface forms from particular combinations of choicesmade among the alternatives.
All syntactic options are expressedin the sets of alternatives.
In any one set, choosing one optionexcludes all of the others.
Nigel contains over 200 systems(collections of alternatives in systemic notation), along withprovisions for realizing choices as structures, an experimentallexicon used to give the structures surface forms, and extensiveprovisions for experimental control.
3Given this orientation toward choice, the problem ofconformity to the text plan is simply the problem of makingappropriate choices.
Each set of alternatives (each "system" inits systemic representation has an associated chooser orchoice expert, a process that embodies a method for choosingappropriately in any particular circumstance.The choice experts require certain information as theyproceed with text generation.
Nigei's choice experts request thisinformation by presenting inquiries to the environment (theplace outside of the grammar where intentions and plans tocommunicate are found.)
For this purpose, Nigel employs aformal inquiry language in which an inquiry is an expressioncontaining an inquiry operator and a sequence of operands.
Asingle interface is provided for all interactions between Nigel andthe environment; all interactions at the interface are in the inquirylanguage.
This way of using such an interface is called inquirysemantics.In this framework, we can understand the demands of thegrammar by understanding the inquiry operators.3 Varieties of DemandsThis section characterizes the demands for informationthat Nigel can make in generating sentences.
Since Nigeldemands information only by presenting inquiries, we first "characterize the things that Nigel can inquire about (the operandsof inquiries), then characterize in two different ways the questionsthat Nigel can ask.3.1 Categories of Operands of Inquir iesNigel has four related information forms:1.
Concept symbols2.
Presentation specifications3.
Term sets4.
TermsConcept symbols are names assigned by theenvironment o particular elements of its knowledge, either in thetext plan for the text being formed or in the environment'sknowledge base.
A concept symbol represents an entity that maybe simple or complex, decomposable or not; the symbols3The grammar is written in an extended systemic notation and draws extensivelyon precedents in the work of Halliday and others \[Berry 75, Berry 77.
Halliday &Hasan 76, Halliday 76, Hudson 76, Halliday & Martin 81,de Joia & $tenton80.
Fawcett 80\].
We gratefully acknowledge the participation of Michael Hallidayand Christian Matthiessen in the work.166themselves are not decomposable.
A concept symbol does nothave to bear any particular relationship to any kind of linguisticentity.Presentation specif icat ions are formal descriptions ofthe information that should be expressed in a particular eference,description, or predication.
Through presentation specificationsthe environment designates the content to be conveyed in each~rt.icular constituent, (but not how the content is to beexpressed.
)For nominal groups (NP's).
for example, presentationspecifications represent the identification of the content topresent about the particular object, process, or relation which thenominal group represents.
The collection of devices that expressnominal group content include head terms (nouns, pronouns,substitute "one"), modifying nominals, adjectives and adjectivegroups, quantifiers, numerals, determiners, prepositional phrases,restrictive and nonrestrictive relative clauses.
Normally thegrammar will use some combination of these devices in thenominal group to express all of the content of the presentationspecification.As a minimal example, the grammar's decision on whethera pronoun is adequate as a referring phrase can be made on thebasis of the presentation specification, since the specification tellswhat constitutes adequate reference at the point of referring.
(Ifthe presentation specification indicates that nothing beyondgender and number needs to be expressed, a pronoun is used.
)The presentation specification is thus a unifying device forall of the conceptual elements of an intention to refer.
It isessential to the generation task because the various syntacticdevices effectively compete for the content which the nominalgroup expresses in referring.At the clause level, presentation specifications operatecomparably, unifying the effects of adverbial, conjunctive, andclausal modifiers.
The specifications are constructed units, notframes or delimited regions of knowledge.Term sets are collections of lexical items created in aspecial way which insures that they are appropriate, in denotation,:cmnotation, and information content, for their intended use.
(The,~;=cess which creates term sets does not restrict themsyntactically; that is done later by the grammar.)
The individualterms in a term set need not be so restrictive that they fully expressthe intent of the unit being constructed, since they are used withmodifiers.
Term sets are not like sets of synonyms since they donot have any uniformity of semantic content.Term sets are used as collections of alternatives, fromwhich one term will be picked for the final syntactic unit.
The bestexample is a term set giving alternatives that can serve as thehead term of a nominal group.A Term is a single lexical item selected from a term set.
Itidentifies the particular lexical item to appear in the generatedtext.
Currently Nigel is deliberately underdeveloped in itstreatment of lexical items, having no morphological component atall.
Hence terms are simply lexical items which bear lexicalfeatures that the grammar can employ for selectivity.To see how these forms are used, consider the sentence:The leader is John.It refers to John twice.
In generating this sentence, thesame concept symbol, say JLDR, would be used to generate both;f the references.
However, two different presentationspecifications for referring to JLDR would be created.
The firstmight specify that the resulting expression should convey the factthat the individual holds the role of leader.
The second couldmerely specify that the resulting expression should convey theperson's name.Two different term sets would also be created.
Initially,each would contain conceptually and denotationally appropriateterms, possibly including "leader," "man," and "person," in onecf *.he term sets, and "John," and "Mr. Jones" in the other.
Underguidance from various inquiries, the grammar applies differentselectivity to one term set than to the other, so that the terms"leader" and "John" are finally selected.How do these operands of inquiries compare withconventional linguistic abstractions?Concept symbols have many precedents, and terms arefamiliar.
Both presentation specifications and term sets are new.As we will see, both presentation specifications and term sets arewidely and frequently used in the grammar.
Their central role ingeneration suggests that they are worthy of linguistic attention.167Presentation specifications are novel in that they representthe content of particular units without its allocation to constituentunits.
This permits the investigation of how the allocation works,and in particular how differing ranks compete for representationalroles.
Competition among the possible consitiuents of a nominalgroup for representation of posession seems to be a typical case.We would like to know, for example how the decision betweenusing the determiner "his," the prepositional phrase "of his," andthe clause "which he has" is made.
A presentation specificationcan say in a syntactically neutral way that possession is to beexpressed.
Using them facilitates tudy of the alternation.Nigel uses subtractive operations on presentationspecifications to account for the fact that repeated expression ofcontent in a nominal group is marked, but single expression is not.~.,, it can account for the perception that "his car.
which he owns"is marked in a way in which "his car, which he hates" is not.Term sets are novel in that they represent he alternationsand :ompetition among lexical items.
The sets of terms whichcompete as candidates, e.g.
for the main verb of a clause or headterm of a nominal group, are highly variable and dependent on the~'.ubj~ct matter of the communication.
Hence they are notsusceptible to static analysis as part of the grammar, and they arenot easy to represent in systemic systems.Consider, for example, the word "attention" at the end ofthe third paragraph back.
Other candidates for use in the samesetting would include words such as "research."
"curiosity,""work."
"perusal."
and "funds."
These terms (as well as"attention") would all be in the term set for generating thatnominal group.
However, they are from different lexical fields,fields which are ordinarily not in alternation.
Since they are notthe basis of a stable alternation, many sorts of staticrepresentations of them (including representation in systems in asystemic lexico-grammar) seem inappropriate.
The situation ismuch more complex and dynamic, worthy of linguistic attention.Notice that in both cases, addition of a new formalc3:~struct will facilitate study of how particular expressions arerelated to closely related alternatives in ways which are not in~.~po3ition in a conventional systemic account.
Studies offunctional alternation have long been a highly valued activityamong systemicists.Notice also that these constructs arise easily, almost;nevitably, in studies of text construction, but are not inevitable atall in descriotive studies of text.
Given a particular text to study, it=s not at all clear what the rejected head term candidates were, norwhat the alternate allocations of content to syntactic units mighthave been.
In systemic terms, part of the meaning of a nominalg,ouo is derived from the particular choice of the head term.
but,working descriptively, the alternation is hard to characterize.Study of text generation (and related work on constructivecharacterization) thus complements other methodologies in that itn, ~.=.s certain difficult tasks easier.3.2 Abstract Categories of Inquiry OperatorsThe inquiries of the grammar can be differentiatedaccording to categories of purposes they serve.
Five suchcategories are described below.
The first two kinds of inquiries~ ~ :.
'~-ed for control, and the last three extract symbols from theenvironment -- either lexical items or symbols that can be includedas subject matter in subsequent inquiries.
Inquiries of the first twokinds have predetermined closed sets of possible responses: thelast three kinds allow an unlimited number of responses.1.
in format ion avai lab i l i ty2.
in format ion character izat ion3.
decomposition4, l ink ing ( ident i f icat ion of related information)5. mappingSome inquiries determine whether information of a certaincharacter is avai lable,  such as the location or duration of anevent.
These inquiries generally precede others used tocharacterize information.The operators used for in format ion character izat ionform the largest collection of operators among the five kinds.They are used to subcategorize and also to discover relations ofinclusion, identity, precedence, adjacency, and attributes ofmanner, number, completeness, intended emphasis, identifiabilityto the reader, decomposability, gender, hypotheticality,extensionality, and many other sorts.When the grammar has determined that some of theavailable informaion is decomposable into parts in a syntacticallysignificant way (usually through information availability inquiries),in format ion decompos i t ion  inquiries are used to obtain access168to the parts.
This is the largest category of inquiries for which anunlimited diversity of responses is allowed.
These inquiries offeraccess to actors, affected objects, processes, causers, polarities,locations, time periods, extents, manners, and various kinds ofparticipants or conditioners of processes.The linking inquiries are a small collection of inquirieswhich resemble the information decomposition inquiries.
Theyobtain information related in a particular way to knowninformation, but not part of it.
For example, given an event whosetime must be expressed, there is an inquiry that obtains theidentity of the time relative to which the event's time of occurrenceshould be expressed.In terms of the four forms of information presented insection 3.1 above, exploration always proceeds from concepts topresentation specifications and term sets, and from term sets toterms, as shown in Figure 1.Concepts , / - .
.
.
,Presentation Specifications Term SetsTermsFigure 1: Information flow through mapping inquiriesA small collection of Mapping inquiries participate in this:~,ploration at the points where information forms change.Several create specialized presentation specifications forconcepts, and others create term sets and terms.Since operators can request presentation specifications,they can in effect demand that the environment work out whatinformation to include in a new reference to an entity.
Thee,~vironment must then use the knowledge of past mentions, amodel of the hearer's attention and of possible confusioncandidates, and also the knowledge of denotationally appropriatele.<ic.~l items; these elements of knowledge are all outside theooundary of the grammar.
The mapping from concepts topresentation specifications is thus dependent on the particularcircumstances.In a similar way, the mappings from concepts to term setsand from term sets to terms also vary depending on thecomm,mication situation.3.3 Categories of Subject MatterRecurrent topics and categories of subject matter in theinquiries reflect the syntactically encoded categories Ofknowledge in English.
The subject matter categories form twogroups:1.
Elements of knowledge that typically exist odor to theintention or plan to communicate (described insection 3.3.1 below), and2.
Elements of knowledge ~:r~ated as Dad of pursuingthe intention or plan to communicate (described insection 3.3.2 below.
)These are called the Knowledge Base and the TextPlan, respectively.Surprisingly, we do not see any sharing of inquiriesbetween these two kinds of knowledge.
In Nigel, we find that eachinquiry operator addresses solely one body of knowledge or theother.
A few of the categories of operations address both kinds ofknowledge, notably inquiries about availability of information.Within the categories, however, each individual inquiry isspecialized to a single kind of knowledge.3.3.1 Subject  Matter  of Inquiries Concerning PriorKnowledgeIn addition to inquiring about availability of information, thegrammar asks about abstract characteristics of processes, aboutnumber and discreteness, and about time and space.
Also, thereis ~ substantial collection of inquiries about logical relations suchas set membership, interval inclusion, identity of two entities,extensionality, definiteness of existence, hypotheticality, polarityand conditionality.3.3.2 Subject Matter of Inquiries for Communicat ionAmong the inquiry operators that refer to informationcreated in pursuit of an intention or plan to communicate, thereare inquiries about speech acts and about controlling the hearer'sattention.
The latter are used in controlling thematicity, variouskinds of marking, and the foregrounding or backgrounding ofinformation.3.4 Support Processes in the EnvironmentThe organization of inquiry requires that various kinds ofprocesses be available in the environment for responding toinquiries.
At a detailed level, there must be a capability for the169environment to recognize each inquiry operator and to respond toeach one appropriately.
In computational terms, for a particulardomain of expressive problems, all of the inquiry operators whichare called upon to serve that domain must be implemented.
(Forsimple expressive problems this can be far fewer than the total forthe grammar.
)At a more comprehensive level, we can identify certainrecurrent activities which must underlie the operations of theinquiry operator implementations.
These include searching for anappropriate set of.lexical items (such as candidate head nouns fora nominal group), creating a presentation specification forexpressing a particular idea, and choosing among a set of termswhich the grammar has approved as appropriate for a certain use.At an even more comprehensive level, the grammar reliesor; the prior activity of processes which plan the text.a, Inquiries in Action: An exampleThe following list summarizes Nigel's activity in developinga particular nominal group: "her appointment on Wednesdaymorning with us."
The starting point is identification of a need torefer to an object represented by concept APPOINTMENT.
At theend of the activity shown, there is a structure containing the word"appointment" as the head term, the word "her" as its determiner,and elements that could be further developed into the phrases "onWednesday morning" and "with us."
The category of eachinquiry operator is indicated in <brackets>.
The order ofpresentation is the order actually used in the program.
It issomewhat disconnected, since the program often Chooses in anarbitrary way between several things which it could do next.
Aninquiry appears more than once if it is used by more than onechoice expert.1.
Obtain a presentation specification forAPPOINTMENT <mapping>developing the head term of the group2.
Obtain a set of candidate head terms <mapping>3.
Establish that APPOINTMENT is countable<characterization>4.
Classify APPOINTMENT as<characterization>5.
Classify APPOINTMENT as unitary <characterization>extensional6.
Classify APPOINTMENT as not a question variable<characterization>7.
Classify APPOINTMENT as extensional (as part ofpronoun control) <characterization>8.
Classify APPOINTMENT as unitary (as part of pronouncontrol) <characterization>9.
Establish that the gender of APPOINTMENT is known<availability>10.
Establish that in the presentation specification ofAPPOINTMENT, there is more to be expressed thangender and number <characterization>11.
Determine that it is preferab!e to exclude propernouns from the term set, rather than exclude theremainder <preference>begin developing the determiner12.
Establish that APPOINTMENT is extensional (fordeterminer control) <characterization>13.
Establish that APPOINTMENT is identifiable to thereader <characterization>resume developing the head term14.
Have the environment select a term, here"appointment," from among the terms that survivedsyntactic selectivity <mapping>developing the modifiers of the head term15.
Establish that the presentation specification forAPPOINTMENT does not indicate that color, location,use, substance, size, place of origin or age should beexpressed (7 inquiries) <characterization>developing the accompaniment modifier16.
Establish that some kind of accompaniment ofAPPOINTMENT should be expressed<characterization>17.
Obtain a symbol (WITHUS) representing theaccompaniment knowledge to be expressed<decomposition>complete development of the head term18.
Determine that the speaker wants the hearer to paymore than minimal attention to APPOINTMENT (thuscutting off further investigation of a substitution of"one" for "appointment") <characterization>developing the time period modifier19.
Establish that the presentation specification ofAPPOINTMENT indicates that a time constraintshould be expressed <characterization>20.
Obtain a symbol (ONWEDNESDAYMORN):eprasenting the time constraint to be expressed<decomposition>resume developing the determiner17021.
Establish that no information about the proximity ofAPPOINTMENT should be expressed<characterization>22.
Establish that information about the possessor ofAPPOINTMENT should be expressed<characterization>23.
Obtain a symbol (JANE) representing the possessor ofAPPOINTMENT <decomposition>24.
Establish that JANE is unitary <characterization>25.
Establish that JANE does not represent a questionvariable <characterization>26.
Obtain a symbol (SELF) representing the speaker<decomposition>27.
Obtain a symbol (PUBLIC) representing the hearer ofthe entire nominal group <decomposition>28.
Establish that SELF is not identical with or included inJANE <characterization>29.
Establish that PUBLIC is not identical with or includedin JANE <characterization>30.
Establish that the gender of JANE is known<availability>31.
Establish that the gender of JANE is female<characterization>finish developing the modifiers32.5stablish that there is no residue of unexpressedcontent in the presentation specification<characterization;>Using the answers to these inquiries, the grammar builds astructure consisting of four elements in an ordered sequence:"her," "appointment," ONWEDNESDAYMORN,WITHUS.the latter two representing conceptual elements tO be furtherdeveloped in subsequent applications of the grammar.5 Relations between OperatorsSome operators are closely related in ways not suggestedabove.
In particular, some pairs of operators are used together ina characteristic way: First an availability operator asks if certaininformation is available, for example, whether the location of anevent is known.
If a positive response is given, a decompositioninquiry asks for a symbol to represent the available information,such as the location.Almost all of the decomposition inquiries are paired withavailability inquiries in this way.
However, a few are not.
Forthese, the grammar assumes the existence and separability of theinformation it requests.- The following are the exception cases:1. the identity of the speaker.2.
the identity of the time of speaking, the "now" oftense.3.
given an event to express in an independent clause,the identity of the time of occurrence of the event.4.
given the need to generate a clause, the identity of theprocess portion (which will be realized in the mainverb.
)In addition, none of the mapping operators and none of thelinking operators are paired.
We see that the decompositionoperators have little intellectual content, but the other kinds allcontribute significantly.6 Demands on the KnowledgeRepresentationReviewing the inquiries, we can find several kinds ofoperations that are particularly difficult to support in explicitknowledge representations uch as those currently used in AI orlogic.One operator asks whether the existence of a particularentity is hvoothetical.
Knowledge gained from this inquiry is usefulin controlling contrasts such as the following:If they run to town, they will be sorry.If they are running to town, they will be sorry.Another operator asks about conjectural existence.
Itcontrols contrasts such as:They will run to town.They might run to town.In the first case the running to town is treated as definitebut occurring in the future.Another asks whether an action to be expressed is habitualrecurrent rather than a particular instance.
Another group ofinquiries seeks to determine the manner of performance of anaction.
Others deal with partial specifications and "question171variables" of the sort that are often realized by "wh" terms suchas "what," "how," and "whether."
Some operators controlnegation and quantification, which often cause representationproblems.In addition to all of these potential problem sources,associated with inquiries whose responses will be difficult todetermine, there are also many difficulties which do not arise fromdifficulties of representation.
For example, knowing what tothematize and what to mark, knowing causes and beneficiaries,knowing which of several lexical items to use (after passing allsyntactic and semantic tests), knowing what relations can beexpressed as possession, knowing whether the reader is able toidentify an entity in memory (for definite determination),discriminating near from far.
all present difficulties withoutappearing to stress the capabilities of modern knowledgerepresentations.Thus the inquiries can be used as an indication of whatsorts of expansion a knowledge representation needs and as aguide to the ways in which current knowledge of discourse isinadequate to support text generation programming.7 Factoring the Text Generation ProblemInquiry semantics separates the problem of designing atext generator into parts which seem much more approachablethan the problem as a whole.
The grammar is separated from theenvironment by a tight interface which does not allow thegrammar to access any elements of the environment directly.
Theinquiries are defined in a syntactically neutral or pre-syntacticform; answering them never requires knowledge of the syntax ofthe language being generated.
As a result, the environment andthe grammar can develop independently.
This is particularlyimportant today, since the technologies of the environment arevery unstable, and we would like to be able to use a grammar incon!unction with several styles of knowledge representation.The environment is divided into the Knowledge Base andText Plan parts, an informal but potentially very useful distinction.It tends to facilitate independent development of discourseplanning methods.
Truth-functional issues seem to be relatedlargely to the Knowledge Base.The treatment of the lexicon separates a variety of lexicalphenomena in separate, controlled ways: denotationalappropriateness, syntactic features, and nonsyntactic.~onde=~otational attributes such as frequency and register, eachreceive distinctive treatment in NigeL8The Abstract Character of InquirySemanticsIn this section we compare inquiry semantics to other kindsof semantics, and also identify the nature of meaning in thisframework.8.1 Comparative Semant icsThe inquiry-based semantics presented here contrastswith other accounts also called "semantics" in many ways, but itdoes not particularly compete with them.
This semantics, as a wayof theorizing, is an answer to the question "How can wecharacterize the circumstances under which it is appropriate tomake each particular grammatical choice of a language?
"It differs from other semantic approaches in that1.
its scope is confined to grammar, rather thanaddressing linguistic behavior as a whole;2. it does not presume particular structures (deep orotherwise) in the environment;3. it is not particularly limited to issues reducible toquestions of truth value;4. its scope includes nondeclarative, noninterrogativespeech actions (including imperative, imprecation,and greeting functions) on a par with declarative andinterrogative ones;5. it includes other functions of language in addition tothe representational ones (such as theattention.direction functions);6. it is defined relative to generation rather thaninterpretation, but is not thereby "generative".This semantics is potentially compatible with other sorts,since it makes very few theoretical assumptions about the natureof language and communication.
By encompassing every kind ofsyntactic construction, it is more inclusive than most.Nothing in inquiry semantics rules out any particular formalapparatus as the notation for the methods by which theenvironment responds to inquiries.
Accounts of particularlanguages and grammars will give some informal guidance as towhich sorts of methods will be perspicuous, and may rule outparticular formalisms as response mechanisms for particulargrammars.
The topic is as yet unexplored.1728.2 The Nature of Meaning in inquiry SemanticsWe could assign meanings to any of several kinds ofentities in this framework: grammatical features, collections offeatures, realizations of collections of features (i.e., structures),inquiry responses--or other possibilities.
Our selection of aparticular kind of entity as the locus of meaning depends on ourintended use for that locus.
We intend to use this notion ofmeaning to identify the ways in which minimal structurally-justified.~istinctives are responsive to their conditions of use.
Thisselection does not preclude other selections for other purposes,and it certainly does not suggest that there are no other entitieswhich are meaningful.We associate meanings with qrammal; qa feature~, in partbecause these are the controlling entities in the systemicframework.
Given a systemic grammar, the syntactic structures~',nicn are produced depend entirely on the grammatical featureswhich are chosen, and the opportunity to choose a grammaticalfeature also depends entirely on the grammatical features whichare chosen, i.e., the entry conditions of the system in which "thefeature occurs.
So it is convenient to associate meaning withfeatures, and to derive meanings for any other entity by thedeterminate derivational methods which the systemic frameworkprovides.To state the meaning of a grammatical feature is to statethe technical circumstances under which the feature is chosen.We identify these circumstances as the set of possible collectionsof inquiry responses which are sufficient to lead to the choice ofthe feature.
The definitions of the systems of the grammar andtheir choice experts are thus sufficient to determine the meaningof every grammatical feature.
45 Ambiguity of a feature arises whenthere is more than one collection of relevant inquiry responseswhich leads to the choice of the feature.Differences of meaning reflect differences betweencollections of inquiry responses.
In Nigel, for the features Singularand Plural, one of the collections of inquiry responses which leads4We do not stats the method here, since that involves many systemic details, butit is normally a rather straightforward matter for the Nige!
grammar?
More detailcan be found in \[Mann 82, Mann & Matthiessen 83a, Mann & Matthiessen 8,3b\].5The meanings of the features are not sufficient to find the sets of meaningswhich corres~ond to particular structures, since that requires the realizationmapping of featureS to structureS.
However, given the associations of featureswith realization operations, the structures for which a particular feature (orcombination of features) is chosen can be identified, and so in principle the sets oftechincal circumstances which can yield a particular string can be identified.to Singular contains a response "unitary" to MultiplicityQ, and acorresponding collection contains "multiple" as a response toMultiplicityQ, which leads to Plural.
We can determine byinspection of the entire meanings that Singular and Plural excludeeach other, and the determination could be made even if thefeatures were not in direct opposition in the grammar.Notice that this approach is compatible with approaches togrammar other than traditional systemic grammar, provided thattheir optionality is reexpressed as alternation of features, withchoice experts defined to identify the circumstances under whicheach option is chosen.Notice also that it is possible to have meanings in the~irammar which are ruled out by the environment, for example, byconsistency conditions.
A change in the environment'sepistemology could lead to changes in how the grammar isemployed, without changes in meaning, the grammar being moreneutral than its user.Notice also that the collection of inquiry operators for alanguage is a claim concerning the semantic range of thegrammar of that language, a characterization of what can beexDresssd syntactically.Notice finally that, given a grammar and an inquirysemantics of each of two different languages, the question ofwhether a particular sentence of one language has the samemeaning as a particular sentence of the other language is anaddressable question, and that it is possible in principle to findcases for which the meanings are the same.
One can alsoinvestigate the extent to which a particular opposition in onelanguage is an exact translation of an opposition in another.9 ConclusionsThe inquiry language as a level of abstraction provides auseful factoring of the text generation problem, isolating thegrammar-intensive part.Development of inquiry language has led to the creation ofnew kinds of abstract elements that can be the operands ofi;~quiries.
Of these, presentation specifications and term sets havesufficiently novel scopes to suggest that they may be useful indefining relationships between grammar and language use.We have identified three dimensions of characterizationthat yield a convenient abstract structure for understandinginqui ry  language collectively (by categories of operands,173categories of operators and categories of subject matter.)
Thesecategorizations clarify the ways in which effective use of agrammar depends on processes and information outside of thegrammar, including some ways which are not well controlled inavailable knowledge representations.Inquiry semantics contrasts with other theoretical entitiesI .also called "semantics" in many ways.
It is potentially compatiblewith some other forms, but tends to be broader than many inincluding non-representational functions and non-declarativespeech actions in its scope.Refe rences\[Berry 75\] Berry, M., Introduction to Systemic Linguistics:Structures and Systems.
B. T. Batsford, Ltd., London, 1975.\[Berry 77\] Berry, M., Introduction to Systemic Linguistics: Levelsand Links, B. T. Batsford, Ltd., London, 1977.\[de Joia & Stenton 80\] de Joia, A., and A. Stenton, Terms inSystemic Linguistics, Batsford Academic and Educational,Ltd., London, 1980.\[Fawcett 80\] Fawcett, R., Cognitive Linguistics and SocialInteraction, Julius Groos Vertag and Exeter University Press,1980.\[Hailiday 76\] Halliday, M. A. K., System and Function in Language,Oxford University Press.
London.
1976.\[Halliday & Hasan 76\] Halliday.
M. A. K.. and R. Hasan.
Cohesionin English, Longman, London, 1976.
English LanguageSeries, Title No.
9.\[Haltiday &Martin 81\] Halliday, M.A.K., and J. R. Martin (eds.
),Readings in Systemic Linguistics, Batsford, London, 1981.\[Hudson 76\] Hudson, R. A., Arguments for aNon-Transformational Grammar, University of Chicago Press,Chicago, 1976.\[Mann 82\] Mann, W. C., The Anatomy of a Systemic Choice,USC/Information Sciences Institute, Marina del Rey, CA,Technical Report RR-82-104, October 1982.
To appear in~iscourse Processes\[Mann 83\] Mann, William C?, An Overview of the Penman TextGeneration System, USC information Sciences Institute,Marina del Rey, CA 90291., Technical Report RR.8,3.114,1983.
To appear in the 1983 AAAI Proceedings.\[Mann & Matthiessen 83a\] Mann, W. C., and C. M. I. M.Matthiessen, Nigeh A Systemic Grammar for Text Generation,USC/Information Sciences Institute, RR-83.105, February1983.
The papers in this report will also apoear in aforthcoming volume of the Advances in Discourse ProcessesSeries, R. Freedle (ed.
): Systemic Perspectives on Discourse:Selected Theoretical Papers from the 9th InternationalSystemic Workshop to be published by Ablex.\[Mann & Matthiessen 83b\] Mann, William C. and Christian M. I.M.
Matthiessen, An Overview of the Nige/ Text GenerationGrammar, USC Information Sciences institute, Marina delRey, CA 90291., Technical Report RR-8,3-113, 1983.174
