AN EXPERI~FENTON SYNTHESIS OF RUSSIAN PARAMETRIC CONSTRUCTIONSI.S.
Kononenko, E.L. PershinaAI Laboratory, Computing Center,Siberian Branch of the USSR Ac.
Sci.,Novosibirsk 630090, USSRABSTRACTThe paper describes an experimentalmodel of syntactic structure generationstarting from the limited fragment of se-mantics that deals with the quantitativevalues of object parameters.
To presentthe input information the basic semanticunits of four types are proposed:"object","parameter", "function" and "constant".For the syntactic structure representationthe system of syntactic components is usedthat combines the properties of the depen-dency and constituent systems: the syntac-tic components corresponding to wordformsand exocentric constituents are introducedand two basic subordinate relations ("ac-tant" and "attributive") are claimed to benecessary.
Special attention has been de-voted to problems of complex correspon-dence between the semantic units and lexi-cal-syntactic means, In the process ofsynthesis such sections of the model asthe lexicon, the syntactic structure gene-ration rules, the set of syntactic restric-tions and morphological operators are uti-lized to generate the considerable enoughsubset of Russian parametric constructions.I INTRODUCTIONThe semantics of Russian parametricconstructions deals with the quantitativevalues of object parameters.
The paramet-ric information is more or les~ easily ex-plicated by means of basic semantic unitsof four types: "object" ('table', 'boy'),"parameter" ('weight', 'length', 'age'),"function" ('more', 'equal', 'almost equal')and "constant" ('two meters', 'from 3 to 5years').In simple situations each of theseunits is separately realized in a lexemeor a phrase, their combinations formingfull expressions with the given sense:malchik vesit bolshe dvadcati kilogrammov'boy weights more than twenty kilograms'.It is precisely these direct and simplemeans of expressions that are usually usedin systems generating natural languagetexts.Natural languages, however, operatewith more complex means of expression ;one-to-one correspondence between semanticunits and lexical items is not always thecase.
The complex situations are suggestedhere to be explained in terms of decompo-sition of the input semantic representa-tion (cf.
the notion of form-reductionin Bergelson and Kibrik (1980)).
This phe-nomenon is exemplified by such Russian le-xemes as stometrovka 'hundred-meters-long-distance' which semantically incorporatesthe four constituents of the parametricsemantics.As an ideal, a language model shouldembrace mechanisms that provide generationand understanding of the constructionsthat make use of the various possibilitiesof lexicalization and grammaticalizationof sense.
The presented model deals withsome aspects-of the phenomena that havenot been Considered before: all the possi-bilities of decomposition of the input in-formation are taken into account and themeans of syntactic structure representa-tion are developed to provide the synthe-sis of the parametric syntactic structure.The paper is organized as follows.In section 2 the set of semantic componentsis described.
In section 3 the relevantsyntactic notions are introduced.
In sec-tion 4 the process of synthesis is outlin-ed, followed by conclusions in section 5.2 SE~IANTIC COMPONENTSThe information to-be-communicated isrepresented as a set of four semanticunits each of them being marked with thetype-symbol (o - "object", p - "parameter",f - "function", c - "constant").At the initial step of synthesis aprocess involving the decomposition of theinput semantic structure into a system ofsemantic components takes place.
Usually,a semantic structure corresponds to seve-ral decompositions.
The forming of a com-ponent may be motivated by the followingreasons.129In the event of separate lexicaliza-tion a componen~ represents exac~?y onesemantic unit.
There are four componentsof this kind according to the number ofunit types.
So, the object component K orepresents a unit of the "object" type andis realized in a noun (dom 'house') or apossessive adjective (papin 'father's').The parameter component Kp is lexicalizedin parametric nouns, verbs and particip-les.
The function component Kf is realiz-ed in lexemes of different syntactic clas-ses: prepositions, comparative verbs andparticiples and forms of comparative de-gree of some adjectives and adverbs.
Theconstant component K c corresponds to mea-sure adjectives and some quantitative con-structions described in Kononenko et al(1980).A component represents more than onesemantic unit in two situations.
(1) The first one has been mentionedabove.
It concerns the phenomenon of in-corporation of several units in one lexe-me: thus, the component Kopfc is intro-duced to account for the lexemes like sto-metrovka and Kpf component is a proto-type of parametric-comparative adverbslike shire 'wider'.
(2) On the other hand, the introduc-tion of a component may be connected withthe fact that a certain unit is not lexi-calized at all.
Such "reduced" elements ofsense are considered to be realized on thesurface by the type of the syntactic struc-ture composed of the lexicalized units ofthe component.
For example, in Russian ap-proximative constructions litrov pjat'about-five-liters' it is only the "cons-tant" unit that is lexicalized and theunit of the "function" type ('almost equal)is expressed by purelysyntact ic means,i.e.
the inverted word-order in the quan-titative phrase.
The corresponding compo-nent represents both the "function" and"constant" units.3 SYNTACTIC STRUCTURESThe syntactic structures of Russianparametric constructions are variousenough.
The full system of rules (Kononen-ko and Pershina, 1982) provides the gene-ration of nominal phrases and simple sen-tences but the structures within the comp-lex sentence such as komnata, dlina koto-rojj ravna pjati metr~n 'room whoso lengthis five meters' are left out of account.So, the model allows for the following ex-amples: shestiletnijj malchik 'six-years-old boy'; bashnja vysotojj bolee sta metrov'tower of more than hundred meters height';kniga stoit pjat rublejj 'book costs fiveroubles' etc.To represent the syntactic structuresthe system of syntactic components sugges-ted in Narinyani (1978) proved to be use-ful, that combines the properties of thedependency and constituent systems.
~vodifferent types of syntactic components,the elementary and non-elementary ones,are claimed to be necessary.
The elementa-ry component corresponds to a wordformand is traditionally represented by a le-xeme symbol marked with syntactic and mor-phological features.The non-elementary component is com-posed of syntactically related elementarycomponents.
The outer syntactic relationsof the non-elementary component cannot bedescribed in terms of syntactic and mor-phological characteristics of the consti-tuent elementary components.
The notion ofa non-elementary component is a convenienttool for describing the syntactic behavi-our of Russian quantitative constructionscomposed of a noun and a numeral: the mor-phological features of the subject quanti-tative phrase (nominative, plural) are notequivalent to those of the nominal consti-tuent (genitive, singular).The minimal syntactic structure thatis not equal to a wordform is describedin terms of a syntagm, i.e.
a bipartitepattern in which syntactic components areconnected by an actant or attributive syn-tactic relation.
Each component is markedwith the relevant syntactic and morpholo-gical features.The actant relation holds within theattern in which the predicate componentgoverns the form of the actant componentY, e.g.
: shirina \[XJ ehkrana \[Y\] 'widthof-screen' the governing lexeme shirinadetermines the genitive of the noun-ac-tant.The attributive relation connects thecomponent X with its syntactic modifier,or attribute, Y.
The attributive synta~uis typically composed of a noun and an ad-jective (stometrovaja \[YJ vysota \[X\] 'one-hundred-meters height'), a noun ~id a par-ticiple, a noun and another noun, a verband an adverb or a preposition.The syntactic relation is representedby an'%ct" or "attr" arrow leading from Xto Y.The syntactic class features reflectthe combinatorial properties of the compo-nents in the constructions under conside-ration.
The following are some examples ofthe syntactic features:"S " - object nouns (dom 'house') obj130"S " - parametric nounsparam (yes %veight')"A " - possessive adjectivesposs (papin 'father's')' |V f' param - parametric verbs(stoit 'to-cost')"P " - parametric participlesparam (vesjashhijj 'weighing')"A " - measure adjectivesmeas (pjatiletnijj 'five-years-old')The syntactic structure does not con-tain any syntactically motivated morpholo-gical features connected with governmentor agreement (the latter are described se-parately in the morphological operatorssection of the model).
The case of thenoun used as attribute is reflected in thesyntactic structure representation sincethis feature is relevant in distinguish-ing syntagms.
(e)Sobj(f)Sobjac t  V malchik vesit 'boyparam weights'ac t  S vysota doma 'heightparam of-house'The rules applicable to differentfragments of the same decomposition arebound with the syntagmatic restrictionsthat prevent the unacceptable combinationsof syntagms.
Thu~ the combination of thesyntagm (c) for {K_, K } and the adjectivelexicalization of ~he ~onstant"  componentforms the unacceptable syntactic structure~ehkran pjatimetrovojj shirinojj 'screenof 5-meters-long width (instr)'.The process of synthesis yields allthe possible syntactic structures corres-ponding to the input semantic representa-tion.4 STRUCTURE GENERATION 5 CONCLUSIONThe first step of synthesis is thedecomposition of the input semantic repre-sentation into the set of semantic compo-nents.
The possibilities of lexicalizationof components are determined by the lexi-con that provides every lexeme with itssemantic prototype - the set of semanticunits incorporated in the meaning of thelexeme.
The lexicalization rules replacethe semantic components b~ the concretelexemes, e.g.
:'weight' ~K~ is replacedPby the lexemes yes IS  ~ ~, vesit\[V .
.
.
.
\]or vesjashhijj \ [Ppar l \ ]~ ~The semantic types of components de-termine their combinatorial properties onthe syntactic level.
T~le grammar is deve-loped as the set of rules each of whichprovides all the syntagms realizing theinitial pair of components.For example, the pair ~Ko, Kp~ corres-ponds to six syntagms:(a)A a t t r  Sposs param papin yes 'father'sweight'Cb~ attrSobj " Sparam,gen ehkran shiriny'screen of-width (gen)'(c) attrSobj ~ Sparam, instr  bashnja vyso-tojj 'towerof height(instr.
)'(d)at t r  kniga stojashhaja Sobj Pparam 'book costing'In this report on the basis of thevery limited data of the parametric const-ructions an attempt has been made to con-sider a simplified model of synthesis ofthe text expression beginning from the gi-ven semantic representation.
The schemepresented above is planned to be implement-ed within the framework of the question-answering system.Right from the start of synthesis theprocess of decomposition of the input se-mantics takes place in order to capturedifferent cases of complex correspondencebetween the semantic units and the lexical-syntactic means.
To generate the conside-rable enough subset of Russian parametricconstructions such sections of the lang-uage model as the lexicon, the grammar ge-nerating the syntactic structures, theset of syntactic restictions and morpholo-gical operators are utilized.
The listedconstituents, however, do not, exhaust allthe necessary mechan ism of synthesissince the problems of word-order are leftto be investigated and an additional refe-rence to various aspects of the communica-tive setting is required.
We believe thatbeing of primary ~nportance for automaticsynthesis of natural language texts thecommunicative aspect of text generationpresents one of the mo~t promising researchdirections for future a~tivity.1316 REFERENCESBergelson, M.B.
; Kibrik, A.E., 1980.
"Towards the General Theory of LanguageReduction".
In: ~ormal Description ofNatural Language Structure.
pp.
147-161.Novosibirsk (in Russian).Kononenko, I.S.
; Y~asnova, V.A.
; Pershi-na, E.L., 1980.
The Structure of Russ-ian Quantitative Constructions.
Prep-rint No.
237.
Novosibirsk (in Russian).Kononenko, I.S.
; Pershina, E.L., 1982.A ~odel Generating Syntactic Structuresof Some Russian Parametric Constructions.In: Formal Representation of LinguisticInformation.
pp.
103-122.
Novosibirsk(in Russian).Narinyani, A.S. 1978.
Formal ~odel: Gene-ral Scheme and Choice of Adequate Means.PrePrint No.
107.
Novosibirsk (in Rus-sian ).132
