Rules for PronominalizationFranz Guenthner,  Hubert  LehmannIBM Deutschland GmbHHeidelberg Science CenterT ie rgar tenst r .
15, D-6900 Heide lberg,  FRGAbst ractRigorous in terpretat ion  of pronouns is possiblewhen syntax,  semantics, and pragmatics of a dis-course can be reasonably contro l led.
Interact ionwi th  a database provides such an env i ronment .
Inthe f ramework of the User Specialty Languagessystem and Discourse Representation Theory ,  weformulate st r ic t  and preferent ia l  rules for  pronomi-nal ization and out l ine a procedure to f ind properassignments of referents to pronouns.1 Overv iew:  Relation to previous workOne of the main obstacles of the automated process-ing of natural  language sentences (and a fo r te r io r itexts )  is the proper  t reatment of anaphor ic  re-lat ions.
Even though there is a p lethora of re-search attempt ing to specify (both on thetheoret ica l  level as well as in connection with im-plementat ions) "strategies"  for  "pronounreso lut ion" ,  it is fa i r  to saya) that  no uni form and comprehensive t reatment  ofanaphora has yet been attainedb) that  surpr i s ing ly  l i t t le e f for t  has been spent inapp ly ing the results of research in l inguist icsand formal semantics in actual implemented sys-tems.A quick glance at Hirst  (1981) wil l  conf i rm thatthere  is a large gap between the kinds of theore-t ical  issues and puzzl ing cases that  have been con-s idered on the one hand in the sett ing ofcomputational l inguist ics and on the other  in recentsemantical ly or iented approaches to the formalanalysis of natural  languages.One of the main aims of this paper is to br idgethis  gap by combining recent ef forts  for thcoming informal semantics (based on Montague grammar andDiscourse Representation Theory)  with ex is t ingand re lat ive ly  comprehensive grammars of Germanand English constructed in connection with the Us-er  Specialty Languages (USL) system, a naturallanguage database query  system br ie f ly  descr ibedbelow.We have drawn extensively  - -  as far  asins ights ,  examples, puzzles and adequacy condi-t ions are concerned --  on the various "var iab leb ind ing"  approaches to pronouns (e. 9, work  in theMontague t rad i t ion ,  the i l luminat ing discussion byEvans (1980) and Webber (1978), as well as recentt ransformat ional  accounts).
Our  approach hashowever been most deeply inf luenced by those whohave ( l ike Smaby (1979), (1981) and Kamp (1981))advocated d ispensing with pronoun index ing on theone hand and by those ( l ike Chastain (1973),Evans (1980), and Kamp (1981)) who have empha-sized the " re ferent ia l "  funct ion of certain uses ofindef in i te  noun phrases.2 BackgroundContrary  to what is assumed in most theories ofpronominal izat ion (namely that  the most propi t iousway of deal ing with pronouns is to consider them asa k ind of indexed var iab le) ,  we agree with Kamp(1981) and Smaby (1979) in treating pronouns asbona fide lexical elements at the level of syntacticrepresentation.Treatments of anaphora have taken place with intwo quite d is t inc t  sett ings,  so it seems.
On theone hand, l inguists  have pr imar i ly  been concernedwith the specif ication of mainly syntact ic  cr i ter ia  indetermining the proper  "b ind ing"  and"d is jo intness"  c r i ter ia  (cf.
be low) ,  whereas compu-tat ional l inguists  have in general paid moreattent ion to anaphor ic  relations in texts ,  where se-mantic and pragmat ic  features play a much greaterrole.
In t ry ing  to relate the two approaches oneshould be aware that  in the absence of any serioustheory  of text  unders tand ing ,  any attempt to dealwith anaphora in unrest r i c ted  domains (even ifthey are simple enough as for  instance ch i ldren'ss tor ies) ,  wil l  encounter  so many d iverse problemswhich,  even when they inf luence anaphoric re-lations, are completely beyond the scope of asystematic t reatment  at the present  moment.
Wehave thought  it to be important  therefore  to imposesome constra ints  r ight  from the start  on the type ofdiscourse with respect to which our  t reatment  ofanaphora is to be val idated (or fa l s i f ied) .
Ofcourse, what we are going to say should in pr inc i -ple be extend ib le  to more complex types ofdiscourse in the fu ture .The context  of the present inqu i ry  is the query -in9 of relational databases {as opposed to say gen-eral discourse analys is) .
The type of discourse weare interested in are thus dialogues in the sett lngof a relational database (which may be said to rep-resent both the context  of queries and answers aswell as the "wor ld" ) .
It should be clear that awide var iety  of anaphoric expressions is avai lablein this kind of interact ion;  on the other  hand, therelevant knowledge we assume in resolv ing pronom-inal relations must come from the information144specif ied in the database (in the relat ions,  in thevar ious dependencies and in tegr i ty  constra ints)and in the rules govern ing the language.We are making the fol lowing assumptions for  da-tabase query ing .
A query  dialogue is a sequenceof pairs <query,answer>.
For the sake of s impl ic i -ty  we assume that the possible answers are of theformyes/no answersingleton answer(e .g .
Spain, to a query l ike "Who borders  Por-tugal?
")set answer( \ [France,  Portugalders Spain?
")mult ip le answer( \[<France, Spain>,borders  who?
)andrefusal(when a pronoun cannot receive a proper  in ter -pretat ion)to a query  l ike "Who bor -?
.
I to a query  l ike "Who2.1 The User Specialty Languages systemThe USL system (Lehmann (1978), Ott  and Zoep-p r i t z  (1979), Lehmann (1980)) provides an in ter -face to a relational data base management systemfor  data ent ry ,  query ,  and manipulation via re-s t r ic ted natural  language.
The USL System trans-lates input  queries expressed in a natural  language(cur rent ly  German (Zoeppr i tz  (1983), Engl ish, andSpanish (SopeSa (1982))) into expressions in theSQL query  language, and evaluates those ex-pressions through the use of System R (Astrahan&al (1976)).
The prototype bui l t  has been val i -dated with real applications and thus shown itsusabi l i ty .
The system consists of (1) a languageprocessing component (ULG),  (2) grammars forGerman, English, and Spanish, (3) a set of 75 in-terpretat ion  rout ines,  (4) a code generator  forSQL, and (5) the data base management systemSystem R. USL runs under VM/CMS in a v i r tua lmachine of 7 MBytes, work ing set size is 1.8MBytes.
ULG, interpretat ion rout ines,  and codegenerator  comprise approximately 40,000 lines ofPL/I code.Syntact ic analysisThe syntax component of USL uses the UserLanguage Generator (ULG) which or ig inates fromthe Paris Scientif ic Center of IBM France and hasbeen described by Bertrand 8al (1976).
ULG con-sists of a parser ,  a semantic executer ,  the grammarMETA, and META interpretat ion rout ines.
META isused to process the grammar of a language.
ULGaccepts general phrase s t ructure  grammars wr i t tenin a modified Backus-Naur-Form.
With any rule itallows the specif ication of a rb i t ra ry ,  routines tocontrol  its appl ication or to perform arb i t ra ry  ac-t ions,  and it allows sophist icated checking andsett ing of syntact ic  features.
Grammars for  Ger-man, English, and Spanish have been descr ibed ina form accepted by ULG.
The grammars prov iderules for  those fragments of the languages relevantfor  communicating with a database.
The USLgrammars have been constructed in such a way thatconst i tuents correspond as closely as possible tosemantic relat ionships in the sentence, and thatpars ing is made as ef f ic ient  as possible.
Where at rue  representat ion of the semantic relat ionships inthe parse tree could not be achieved, the burdenwas put on the in terpretat ion  routines to remedythe s i tuat ion.I n terpreta t ionThe approach to interpretat ion in the USL sys-tem bui lds on the ideas of model theoret icsemantics.
This implies that the meaning of s t ruc-tu re  words and syntact ic  construct ions is in ter -preted systematical ly and independent of thecontents of a given database.
Furthermore,  sincea relational database can be regarded as a (par t ia l )model in the sense of model theory ,  the in terpreta -t ion of natural  language concepts in terms ofrelations is qui te natural .
(A more detai led dis-cussion can be found in Lehmann (1978).
)In the USL system, extensions of concepts arerepresented as v i r tua l  relations of a relational da-tabase which are defined on physical ly  stored re-lations (base re lat ions) .
The set of v i r tua lrelations represents the conceptual knowledgeabout the data and is d i rect ly  l inked to naturallanguage words and phrases.
This approach hasthe advantage that extensions of concepts can rela-t i ve ly  easily be related to objects of conventionaldatabases.For i l lustrat ion of the connection between v i r tu -al relations and words,  consider the fo l lowing ex-ample.
Suppose that  for  a geographical  appl icat ionsomeone has arranged the data in the form of therelationCO (COUNTRY,CAPITAL,  AREA, POPULATION)Now v i r tua l  relations such as the fo l lowing whichcorrespond to concepts can be formed by simplypro ject ing out the appropr ia te  columns of CO:CAPITAL (NOM_CAPITAL, OF_COUNTRY)Standard role names (OF, NOM .
.
.
.  )
establish theconnection between syntact ic  construct ions and co-lumns of v i r tua l  relations and enable answeringquestions such as(1) What is Austr ia 's  capital?in a s t ra ight fo rward  and simple way.
Standardrole names are surface or iented because this makesit possible for  a user not t ra ined in l inguist ics todef ine his own words and relations.
(For a com-plete l ist of standard role names see e .g .
Zoeppr i tz(1983).
)We are cur rent ly  work ing on the integrat ion ofthe concepts under ly ing  the USL system with Dis-course Representation Theory which is descr ibed inthe next section.
We have already implemented aprocedure which generates Discourse Represen-tat ion Structures  from USL's semantic trees and145which covers the ent i re  f ragment  of language de-scr ibed in Kamp (1981).2.2 Discourse Representat ion  Theory  (DRT)In this section we g ive  a br ie f  descr ipt ion  ofKamp's Discourse Representat ion Theory  (DRT) inas much as it relates to our  concerns with pronomi-na l izat ion.
For a more deta i led discussion of thistheory  and its general  ramif icat ions for  natura llanguage process ing,  cf.
the papers by Kamp(1981) and Guenthner  (1983a, 1983b).Accord ing  to DRT, each natura l  language sen-tence (or  d iscourse)  is associated wi th  a so-cal ledDiscourse Representat ion S t ructure  (DRS) on thebasis of a set of DRS format ion rules.
These rulesare sens i t ive to both the syntact ic  s t ruc ture  of thesentences in quest ion as well as to the DRS contextin which in the  sentence occurs.
In the formu-lat ion of Kamp (1981) the la t ter  is rea l ly  ofimportance on ly  in connect ion with the  proper  anal-ysis of p ronouns .
We feel on the o ther  hand thatthe DRS env i ronment  of a sentence to be processedshould determine much more than just  the anaphor -ic ass ignments.
We shall discuss th is  issue - inpar t i cu la r  as i t  relates to problems of ambigu i tyand vagueness - in more depth in a fo r thcomingpaper .A DRS K for  a d iscourse has the general  formK = <U, Con>where  U is a set of "d iscourse  re ferents"  for  K andCon a set of "cond i t ions"  on these ind iv idua ls .Condit ions can be e i ther  atomic or  complex.
Anatomic condi t ion has the formP( t l  .
.
.
.
.
tn )ort l=cwhere  ti  is a d iscourse re ferent  and c a propername and P an n-p lace pred icate .The on ly  complex condi t ion we shall discusshere is the one representing un iversa l ly  quant i f iednoun phrases or  condi t ional  sentences.
Both aret reated  in much the same way.
Let us call these" impl icat ional"  condi t ions:K1 IMP K2where  K1 and K2 are also DRSs.
With a d iscourseD is thus associated a Discourse Representat ions t ruc ture  which represents  D in a quant i f ie r - f ree"c lausal"  form, and which captures the propos i -t ional  import  of the d iscourse by - among otherth ings ,  estab l i sh ing the cor rect  pronominal  con-nect ions.What is important  for  the t reatment  of anaphorain the present  context  is the fo l lowing:a) Given a d iscourse with a pr inc ipa l  DRS Ko and aset of non-pr inc ipa l  DRSs (or  condi t ions)  Ki amongits condit ions all d iscourse re ferents  of Ko are ad-missible re ferents  fo r  pronouns  in sentences or(phrases)  g iv ing  rise to the var ious  embeddedKi 's .
In par t i cu la r ,  all occurrences  of p ropernames in a d iscourse wil l  a lways be associated withd iscourse re ferents  of the pr inc ipa l  DRS Ko.
(Thisis on the (admi t ted ly  unrea l i s t ic )  assumption thatp roper  names re fer  un ique ly .
)b) Given an impl icat ional  DRS of the  form K1 IMPK2 occur r ing  in a DRS K, a re lat ion of re la t ive  ac-cess ib i l i ty  between DRSs is def ined as fo l lows:K1 is accessible from K2 and all K' accessiblefrom K1 are also accessible f rom K2.In par t i cu la r ,  the pr inc ipa l  DRS Ko is accessiblef rom its subord inate  DRSs ( fo r  a prec ise def in i t ioncf.
Kamp (1981)) .
The import  of this de f in i t ionfo r  anaphora is s imply that  if  a p ronoun is beingreso lved ( i .e .
in terpreted)  in the context  of a DRSK' f rom which a set K of DRSs is accessible,  thenthe union of all the sets of d iscourse re ferents  as-sociated with every  Ki in K is the  set of admissiblecandidates for  the in terpreta t ion  of the pronoun.The fo l lowing i l lus t ra t ions  wil l  make this  c lear:K (Every  count ry  imports a product  it needs)ul  u2count ry (u1)  IMP impor t (u l ,u2)p roduct (u2)need(u l ,u2)This  sentence (as well as its interrogative vers ion)al lows on ly  one in terpreta t ion  of the pronoun it  ac-cord ing  to DRT.
I t  does not in t roduce  any dis-course re ferent  ava i lab le  for  pronomina l i zat ion  inla ter  sentences (or  quer ies ) .
But  in a DRS l ikethe  fo l lowing ,  DRT does not - as it stands - ac-count  fo r  pronoun reso lut ion:K( John t i ck led  Bi l l .
He squ i rmed)l~u l  u2u l  = Johnu2 = Billt i ck led(u l ,u2)At  this po int ,  the pronoun he has to bein terpreted .
There  are two admissible candidates ,ul and u2, but  DRT does not choose between them.So the DRS could be cont inued with e i thersqu i rm(u l )orsqu i rm(u2)S imi lar ly ,  in the fo l lowing DRS146K( I f  Spain is a member of every  o rgan izat ion ,it has a member)1 Ii'u~ j\[organ.
!zation (u2) IIMPIMP\[ u3ember(u3' i t )  \]the  pronoun i t  could only  refer  to Spain (on con-f igurat iona l  g rounds) ,  and would have to be as-s igned that  object  if  no other  c r i te r ia  are assumed.Obv ious ly ,  as fa r  as this sentence and the intendeddatabase is concerned,  we should want  to ru le outsuch an assignment.
(This can be done via rule $1discussed be low.
)In general ,  then,  g iven a sentence (or  dis-course)  represented in a DRS there  wil l  be morecandidates for  admissible pronoun assignments asone should l ike to have avai lable when a par t i cu la rpronoun is to be in terpreted .
The rules descr ibedin Section 3 are meant to capture some of the regu-lar i t ies  that  ar ise in typical  database query ingin teract ions .c) F inal ly ,  g iven a DRS fo ra  d iscourse D we cansay that  a pronoun is p roper ly  re ferent ia l  i f f  it  isrepresented by ( i .e .
el iminated in favor  of) a d is-course re ferent  ui occur r ing  in the domain of thepr inc ipa l  DRS represent ing  D. ( In the context  ofthe  const ruct ions  i l lust rated so far ,  this wi l l  bet rue  in par t i cu la r  of p roper  names as well as of in-de f in i te  noun phrases not in the scope of of aun iversa l  noun phrase or a cond i t iona l .
)The main problem then for  the t reatment  of anapho-ra is to determine which possible d iscourse re fer -ents should be chosen when we come to thein terpreta t ion  of a par t i cu la r  pronoun occurrencepi in the format ion of the extension of the DRS inwhich we are work ing .We would l ike to suggest the fo l lowing s t ra tegyas a s tar t ing  po int .
Consider a query  d ia logue Qwith  an a l ready  establ ished DRS K and the u t te r -ance of a query  S, where S contains occurrences ofpersonal  p ronouns .
Suppose fu r ther  that  A(S)  isthe  sole syntact ic  analysis avai lable for  S. Thenwe regard the construct ion  of the extens ion of theDRS obtained on the basis of S and K as the va lueof a part ia l  funct ion  f def ined on K and A(S) .More genera l ly  st i l l ,  as Kamp himself suggests,  wecan regard the "meaning" (or in format ion content)of a sentence to be that  part ia l  funct ion from DRSsto DRSs.In a g iven d ia logue both the quer ies  and the an-swers wil l  have the side effect of in t roduc ing  newind iv idua ls  and "pre ference"  or  "sal ience" or -der ings  on these ind iv idua ls ,  and we want to al lowfo r  pronominal reference to these much in the sameway that  in a text  preceding sentences may havedetermined a set of possible antecedents for  p ro -nouns in the curren~!y processed sentence.
TheDRS bu i l t  up in the process of a query ing  sessionwi l l  const i tute  the "mutual knowledge" avai lab le  tothe  user in spec i fy ing  his fu r ther  quer ies  as wellas in his uses of p ronouns .
It is on the ind iv idua lsin t roduced  in the DRSs that  the rules to be dis-cussed below are intended to operate .3 In terp lay  of syntax ,  semantics, and pragmat ics  inpronominalizationThe process of pronominal izat ion is governed  byrules invo lv ing  morphologica l ,  syntact ic ,  semantic,and pragmat ic  c r i te r ia .
These rules are discussedand i l lus t ra ted  with examples drawn from the con-text  of query ing  a geographica l  database.
Then aprocedure  is out l ined which uses these rules andappl ies them in the fo l lowing order :F i rst  morphological  c r i te r ia  are checked,  if theyfai l  no fu r ther  tests are requ i red .Then syntact ic  (or  conf igurat iona l )  c r i te r ia  aretested.
Aga in ,  if  they  fai l ,  no fu r ther  tests arenecessary.Next  semantic c r i ter ia  are appl ied,  and if theydo not fa i l ,the pragmat ic  c r i te r ia  have to be tested.
Ifmore than one candidate remains, the use of thepronoun was pragmat ica l ly  inappropr ia te  andmust be noted as such.3.1 S t r i c t  factors determin ing  the admiss ib i l i ty  ofanaphora3.1.1 Morphological  c r i te r iaMorphological  c r i ter ia  concern the agreement ofgender  and number .
Complicat ions come in, whencoord inated noun phrases occur ,  e .g .
(2) John and Bil l  went  to Pisa.
They  de l ivered  apaper .
(3) * John and Bill went to  Pisa.
He de l ivered  a pa-per .
(4) John and Sue went to Pisa.
He de l ivered  a pa-per .
(5) * John or  Bil l  went to Pisa.
They de l ivered  apaper .
(6) * John or  Bill went  to Pisa.
He de l ivered  a pa-per .
(7) Ne i ther  John nor Bill went to Pisa.
They wentto Rome.
(8) *E i ther  John or  Bill d id not go to Pisa.
He wentto Rome.The s tar red  examples contain inappropr ia te  uses ofpronouns .
With and-coord inat ion ,  re ference to thecomplete NP is possible with a p lura l  p ronoun.When the members of the coord inat ion  are d is t inc tin gender  and/or  number,  reference to them ispossible with the cor respond ing  pronouns .C lear ly ,  the same observat ions  hold for  in ter roga-t ive  sentences.3 .1 .2  Conf igurat iona l  c r i te r iaSyntact ic  c r i te r ia  operate  only  wi th in  the bounda-ries of a sentence, outs ide they  are useless.
Theconf igurat iona l  critp.ria stemming from DRT howeverwork  independent  of sentence boundar ies .147Dis jo int  referenceThe rule of "d is jo int  reference" according toReinhart  (1983) goes back to Chomsky and hasbeen refined by Lasnik (1976) and Reinhart  (1983).It  is able to handle a var iety  of we l l -known cases,such as(9) When did it  join the UN?
(10) Which countr ies that import  it ,  producepetrol?
(11) *Does it entertain diplomatic relations withSpain's neighbor?
( In the starred example, the use of " i t "  is inappro-p r ia te ,  if it is to be coreferential  wi th "Spa in" .
)Rather than using c-command to formulate thisc r i te r ion ,  which is elegant but  too s t r i c t  in somecases (as noted by Reinhart hersel f  and Bol inger(1979), we have chosen an admit ted ly  less elegant,but  hopeful ly rel iable,  approach to d is jo int  re fer -ence, in that  we specify the concrete syntact icconf igurat ions  where dis joint reference holds.
Wedo not rely here on the syntact ic  f ramework  of USLgrammar,  but  use more or less t rad i t iona l ly  knownterminology for  express ing our rules.
We need theterms "clause",  "phrase" ,  "matr ix" ,  "embedding" ,and " level" .
These can be made exp l ic i t ,  when asuitable syntact ic  f ramework is chosen.Now we can formulate our d is jo int  reference ruleand some of its less obvious consequences.CI.
The referent of a personal pronoun can neverbe within the same clause at the same phrase level.
(Note that this rule does not hold for possessivepronouns,)C1 has a number of consequences which we nowl ist :C la .
The ( impl ic i t )  subject of an in f in i tve  clausecan never be referent  of a personal pronoun in thatclause(12) Does the EC want to dissolve it?C lb .
Nouns common to coordinate clauses cannotbe re ferred to from within these coordinate clauses(13) Which country  borders it and Spain?C lc .
Noun complements of nouns in the sameclause can never be referred to.
(14) Does it border  Spain's neighbors?The fol lowing rules have to do with phrases andclauses modify ing a noun.
They too can be re-garded as consequences of C1.C2.
Head noun of a phrase or clause can never bere ferent  of a personal pronoun in that  phrase orclauseC2a.
Head noun of part ic ip ia l  phrase(15) a country  expor t ing  petrol  to itC2b.
Head noun of that-c lause(16) the t ru th  is that it fol lows from A.C2c.
Head noun of relat ive clause(17) the count ry  it  exports  petrol  toThe fo l lowing two rules deal with kataphor ic  p ron-ominal izat ion (sometimes called backward pronomi-na l izat ion) .C3a.
Kataphora into a more deeply embeddedclause is impossible(18) Did it  expor t  a product  that  Spain produces?C3b.
Kataphora into a succeeding coordinateclause is impossible(19) Who did not belong to it  but  left  the UN?The access ib i l i ty  relation on DRSsC4.
Only those discourse referents in the accessi-b i l i ty  relation defined in sec.
2.2 are avai lable asreferents  to a pronoun.3.1 .3  Semantic criteriaWidely used is the cr i ter ion of semantic compat ib i l i -ty .
It is usual ly implemented via "semantic fea-tu res" .
In the USL f ramework we can der ive  thisinformation from relation schemata.
We state thec r i te r ion  as fol lows:31.
If s is a sentence containing a pronoun p andc a ful l  noun phrase in the context  of p. If p issubst i tu ted  by c in s to yield s' and s' is not se-mant ical ly  anomalous, i .e.
does not imply a cont ra -d ic t ion ,  then c is semantically compatible with sand is hence a semantically possible candidate forthe reference of p.(20) What is the capital of Austria?
- Vienna.
Whatdoes it export?If i t  is assumed that  only countr ies but  not capitalsexpor t  goods, then the only semantical ly possiblere ferent  for  " i t "  is Austr ia .S2.
Non- re ferent ia l ly  introduced nouns cannot beantecedents of pronouns.
(21) Which countr ies does Italy have t rade with?How large is it?Since " t rade"  is used non- re ferent ia l l y ,  it cannotbe antecedent of " i t " .
Unfor tunate ly ,  in many cas-es where this cr i ter ion could apply ,  there is anambigu i ty  between referent ia l  and non- re ferent ia luse.Apar t  from the type of semantic compat ib i l i tycovered by rule S1, more complex semantic p roper -t ies are used to determine the re ferent  of a p ro -noun.
The "task s t ructures"  descr ibed by Grosz(1977) i l lust rate  this fact.
We hence formulate therule148$3.
The proper t ies  of and re lat ionships  betweenpredicates  determine pronorn ina l i zab i l i ty .For an i l l us t ra t ion  of its ef fect ,  cons ider  the fo l low-ing query :(22) What count ry  is its ne ighbor?The i r re f lex iv i ty  of the ne ighbor - re la t ion  entai lsthat  " i ts"  cannot be bound by "what  count ry"  inthis case, but  has to re fer  to something ment ionedin the prev ious  context .Given a subject  domain, one can analyze theproper t ies  of the re lat ions and the re lat ionships  be-tween them and so bui ld  a basis fo r  dec id ing pro-noun reference on semantic g rounds .
In thef ramework  of the USL system, informat ion on theproper t ies  of re lat ions is avai lab le  in terms of" funct iona l  dependencies"  g iven in the databaseschema or as in tegr i ty  const ra ints .3 .2  Pragmatic c r i te r iaThe generat ion of d iscourse is contro l led  by  twofac tors :  communicat ive intent ions  and mutualknowledge.
In the context  of database in teract ion ,we can assume that  the communicat ive intent ions  ofa user  are simply to obtain factual answers to fac-tual quest ions.
His intent ions are expressed e i therby  single quer ies  or  by sequences of quer ies ,  de-pending on how complex these intent ions  are orhow closely they  cor respond to the informat ion inthe database.
As wil l  be shown below, in manycases the system wil l  not have a chance to deter -mine whether  a g iven query  is a "one-shot  query" ,or whether  it is par t  of a sequence of quer ies  wi tha common "theme".
For the resolut ion of p ronouns ,this means that  the system should ra ther  ask theuser back than make wild guesses on what might  bethe most "p laus ib le"  re ferent .
This is of coursenot possible when runn ing  text  is analyzed in a"batch mode", and no user is there  to be asked fo rc lar i f i cat ion.Mutual knowledge (see e .g .
C lark  and Marshal l(1981) fo r  a discussion) determines the rules fo rin t roduc ing  and re ferenc ing  ind iv idua ls  in the dis-course.
In the context  of database interact ion weassume the mutual knowledge to consist  in i t ia l l y  of:- the set of p roper  names in the database,- the  predicates whose extensions are in the data-base,- the  "common sense" re lat ionships between andproper t ies  of these predicates.It wi l l  be par t  of the design of a database to estab-lish what  these "common sense" re lat ionships  andproper t ies  a re , .e .g ,  whether  it is genera l ly  knownto the user community ,  whether  "capi ta l "  expressesa one-one re lat ion.
Each quest ion -answer  pa i r  oc-cur r ing  in the discourse is added to the stock ofmutual knowledge.It is a pragmat ic  pr inc ip le  of pronominal izat ionthat  on ly  mutual knowledge may be used to deter -mine the re ferent  of a pronoun on semanticg rounds ,  and hence it may be legal to use the samesentence conta in ing a pronoun where  ear l ie r  in thed iscourse it  was i l legal ,  because the  mutual  know-ledge has increased in the meantime.3 .2.1 A f i r s t  a t tempt  using pre ference  ru lesWhat the topic  of a d iscourse is, which of the ent i -t ies ment ioned in it are in focus,  is ref lected in thesyntact ic  s t ruc ture  of sentences.
This has beenobserved  for  a long time.
It has also often beenobserved  that  d iscourse topic  and focus have an ef-fect on pronomina l i zat ion  where  morpho log ica l ,  con-f igurat iona l ,  and semantic rules fail to determine  as ingle Candidate for  re ference.
However ,  it hasnot been possible yet  to formulate  prec ise rules ex -p la in ing  th is  phenomenon.
We have the impressionthat  such rules cannot  be abso lute ly  s t r i c t  ru les ,but  are of a p re ferent ia l  nature .
We have deve l -oped a set of such rules and tested them against  acorpus of text  conta in ing  some 600 pronoun occur -rences, and have found them to work  remarkab lywel l .
Similar tests (wi th a s imi lar set of ru les)have been conducted by Hofmann (1976).In the sequel we formulate  and discuss our  l istof ru les.
The i r  o rder ing  corresponds  to the orderin which they  have to be appl ied.P1 (pr inc ip le  of p rox imi ty ) .
Noun phrases w i th inthe sentence conta in ing  the pronoun are pre fer redover  noun phrases in prev ious  or  succeeding sen-tences.Cons ider  the sequence(23) What count ry  jo ined the EC a f ter  1980?Greece.
(24) What count ry  consumes the wine it produces?One could argue that  "Greece" is jus t  as probab lythe intended re ferent  of " i t "  in th is  case as thebound in terpreta t ion  and that  hence the use of " i t "should be rejected as inappropr ia te .
However ,there  is no way to avoid the " i t " ,  if the bound var -iable in terpreta t ion  is in tended,  and one can usethis as a ground to ru le out  the in terpreta t ion  whe-re " i t "  refers  to "Greece" .P la .
Noun phrases in sentences before  the  sen-tence conta in ing  the pronoun are pre fer red  overnoun phrases in more d is tant  sentences.This c r i te r ion  is very  important  to l imit the searchfo r  possible d iscourse re ferents .P2.
Pronouns are pre fer red  over  fu l l  nounphrases.This ru le is found in many systems deal ing withanaphora.
One can mot ivate it by  say ing thatpronominal izat ion establ ishes an ent i ty  as a themewhich is then maintained unt i l  the chain of p ro -nouns is b roken by a sentence not conta in ing  a sui-table pronoun.
For an example cons ider :(25) W:lat =s the area of Aust r ia !
(26) What is its capital?
(27) What is its populat ion?149P3.
Noun ~hrases in a matr ix  clause or  phrase arepre fer red  over  noun phrases in embedded clausesor  phrases.P3a.
Noun phrases in a matr ix  clause are pre -fe r red  over  noun phrases in embedde~ clauses.Example:(28) What count ry  imports a product  that  Spainproduces?
- Denmark.
(29) What does it export?Here " i t "  has to refer  to the ind iv idual  sat is fy ing"what count ry" ,  not to "Spain" which occurs in anembedded clause.P3b.
Head nouns are pre fer red  over  noun comple-ments.Example:(30) What is the capital of Austr ia?
- Vienna.
(31) What is its population?
"Vienna", not "Austria" becomes the referent of" i t s " ,  and the argument is analogous to that  forP3a.P4.
Subject noun phrases are pre fer red  overnon-subject  noun phrases.In dec larat ive contexts ,  this rule works  qui te  well .It corresponds essential ly to the focus rule of Sid-her (1981).
In a quest ion-answer ing  situation it ishard ly  appl icable,  since especial ly in wh-quest ionssubject posit ion and word order ,  which both play arole, tend to in ter fere .
We there fore  tend to notuse this rule,  but  rather  to let the system ask backin cases where it would app ly .
For i l lus t rat ionconsider  the fo l lowing examples:(32) Does Spain border  Portugal?
What is its popu-lation?
(33) Is Spain bordered by Portugal?
What is itspopulation?
(34) Which country  borders  Portugal?
What is itspopulation?
(35) Which country  does Portugal border?
What isits population?P5.
Accusat ive object noun phrases are pre fer redover  other  non-subject  noun phrases.P6.
Noun phrases preceding the pronoun are pre -fe r red  over  noun phrases succeeding the pronoun(or:  anaphora is p re fer red  over  kataphora) .3.3 Out l ine of a pronoun resolut ion procedureWe now out l ine a procedure for  " reso lv ing"  pro-nouns in the f ramework of the USL system andDRT.Let M = <U, Con> be the DRS represent ing  themutual knowledge, in par t i cu la r  the past d iscourse.Let K(s) be the DRS represent ing the cur rent  sen-tence s and let p be a pronoun occur r ing  in s forwhich an appropr ia te  discourse re ferent  has to befound.
Let U be the set of d iscourse referents  a(p)accessible to p according to the accessibility re-lation given in sec.
2.2Let fu r ther  c be a funct ion that  a;)plies to U a(p)all the morphological, syntactic, and semantic cri-teria, given above and yields a set Uc(p) as result.Now three cases have to be distinguished:1.
Uc(p)  is empty.
In this case the use of p wasinappropr ia te .2.
Card(Uc(p) )  is 1.
In this case a re ferent  for  phas been uniquely  determined,  p is replaced byit in the DRS, and the procedure is f in ished.3.
Card(Uc(p) )  is g reater  than 1.
In this case thepreference rules are appl ied.Let p be a funct ion that  applies to Uc(p) if thecard ina l i ty  of Uc(p).
is g reater  than 1 all the pre f -erence rules given above in the order  indicatedthere y ie ld ing the result  Up.
Card(Up)  can neverbe 0, hence two cases are possible,  e i ther  the car-d ina l i ty  is 1, then a referent  has been un iquelydetermined and the pronoun p can be el iminated inK, o r  the card ina l i ty  is g reater  than 1, and thenthe use of p was inappropr ia te .It  can be in fer red  from the formulat ion of thepronominal izat ion rules given above, what morpho-logical and syntact ic  information has to be storedwith the discourse referents  in the DRSs, and whatsemantic information has to be accessible from theschema of the database to enable the appl icat ion ofthe funct ions c and p. Hence, we wi l l  not spell outthese detai ls here.4 Open questions and conclusionsMany we l l -known and puzz l ing cases have not beenaddressed here, among them plura l  anaphora,so-cal led pronouns of laziness, one pronominal iza-t ion,  to name just  a few.We have not said anyth ing  about phenomenasuch as discourse topic ,  focus, or  coherence andthe i r  inf luence on anaphora.
The i r  effects are cap-tu red  in our  preference rules to some degree,  butno one can prec ise ly  say how.
Inspire of claims tothe cont rary ,  we bel ieve that  much work  is st i l l  re-qu i red ,  before these notions can be usedef fect ive ly  in natural  language processing.By l imit ing ourselves to the re lat ive lywe l l -de f ined  communicative situation of database in-teract ion ,  we have been able to state prec ise ly ,what rules are appl icable in the f ragment  of lan-guage we are deal ing wi th .
We are cur rent ly  work -ing on the analysis of runn ing texts ,  but  again in awel l -de l ineated domain, and we hope to be able toextend our  theory  on the basis of the exper iencegained.150We are convinced that serious progress in theunderstanding of anaphora and of discourse phe-nomena in general is only possible through a care-ful control of the environment, and on a solidsyntactic and semantic foundation.ReferencesAstrahan, M. M., M. W. Blasgen, D. D. Chamber-lin, K. P. Eswaran, J. N. Gray, P. P. Gri f f i ths,W.
F. King, R. A. Lorie, P. R. McJones, J. W.Mehl, (3.
R. Putzolu, I. L. Traiger, B. W. Wade,V.
Watson (1976): "System R: Relational Approachto Database Management", ACM Transactions on Da-tabase Systems, vol.
1, no.
2, June 1976, p. 97.Bertrand, O., J. J. D~udennarde, D. Starynke-r ich,  A. Stenbock-Fermor (1976): "User Applica-tion Generator", Proceedings of the IBM TechnicalConference on Relational Data Base Systems, Bari,Italy, p. 83.Bolinger, D. (1979): "Pronouns in Discourse", in:T. Givon (ed,):  Syntax and Semantics, Vol.
12:Discourse and Syntax, Academic Press, New York,p.
289.Chastain, Ch.
(1973): Reference and Context,Thesis, Princeton.Clark, H. H. and C. R. Marshall (1981): "DefiniteReference and Mutual Knowledge", in: B. L. Web-ber, A. K. Joshi, and I .
.A.
Sag (eds.
):  Elementsof Discourse Understanding, Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, p. 10.Donnellan, K. S. (1978): "Speaker Reference, De-scriptions and Anaphora", in P. Cole (ed.)
:  Syn-tax and Semantics, Vol.
9: Pragmatics, AcademicPress, New York, p. 47.Evans, O.
(1980) : "Pronouns", LinguisticInquiry,  vol.
11.
(3rosz, B. J.
(1977): "The Representation and Useof Focus in Dialogue Understanding", TechnicalNote 151, SRI International, Menlo Park,California.Guenthner, F. (1983a) "Discourse RepresentationTheory and Databases", forthcoming.
(3uenthner, F. (1983b) "Representing DiscourseRepresentation Theory in PROLO(3", forthcoming.Hirst, (3.
(1981): Anaphora in Natural LanguageUnderstanding: A Survey, Springer, Heidelberg.Hofmann, J.
(1976) : "Satzexterne freienicht-referentiel le Verweisformen in juristischenNormtexten, unpublished dissertation, Univ.
Re-gensburg.Kamp, H. (1981) "A Theory of Truth and SemanticRepresentation", in Groenendijk, J. et al FormalMethods in the Study of Language.
Amsterdam.Lasnik, H. (1976): "Remarks on Coreference",Linguistic Analysis, vol.
2, hr.
1.Lehmann, H. (1978): " Interpretat ion of NaturalLanguage in an Information System", IBM J. Res.Develop.
vol.
22, p. 533.Lehmann, H. (1980): "A System for AnsweringOuestions in German", paper presented at the 6thInternational Symposium of the ALLC, Cambridge,England.Ott, N. and M. Zoeppritz (1979): "USL - an Exper-imental Information System based on Natural Lan-guage", in L. Bolc (ed): Natural L~nguage BasedComputer Systems, Hanser, Munich.Ott, N. and K. Horl~nder (1982): "Removing Re-dundant Join Operations in Queries InvolvingViews", TR 82.03.003, IBM Heidelberg ScientificCenter.Reinhart, T. (1979): "Syntactic Domains for Se-mantic Rules", in F. (3uenthner and S. J.
Schmidt(eds.
):  Formal Semantics and Pragmatics for Na-tural Languages, Reidel, Dordrecht.Reinhart, T. (1983): "Coreference and BoundAnaphora: A Restatement of the Anaphora Ques-tions", Linguistics and Philosophy, vol.
6, p. 47.Sidner, C. L. (1981): "Focusing for Interpretationof Pronouns", AJCL, vol.
7, nr.
4, p. 217.Smaby, R. (1979): "Ambiguous Coreference withQuantif iers", in F. (3uenthner and S.J.
Schmidt(eds)  Formal Semantics and Pragmatics for Na-tura| Languages, Reidel, Dordrecht.Smaby, R. (1981): "Pronouns and Ambiguity", inU.
M6nnich (ed.)
:  Aspects of Philosophical Logic,Reidel, Dordrecht.de Sope~a Pastor, L. (1982): "Grammar of Spanishfor User Specialty Languages", TR 82.05.004, IBMHeidelberg Scientific Center.Webber, B. L. (1978): "A Formal Approach to Dis-course Anaphora", TR 3761, Bolt, Beranek & New-man, Cambr, idge, MA.Zoeppritz, M. (1983): Syntax for German in theUser Specialty Languages System, Niemeyer,TObingen.151
