TOWAR/S THE SEI~ANTICS OF S!NTENCE AYVERBIALSEva Koktov~9.
kv~tna 157639001 T~bor, CzechoslovakiaABSTRACTIn the present paper we argue thatthe so-called sentence adverbials(typically, adverbs like probably,admittedly,...) should be generated, inthe framework of Functional GenerativeDescription, by means of a special deepcase - Complementation of Attitude (CA)on grounds of their special behaviourin the topic-focus articulation (TFA)of a sentence.
From the viewpoint of thetranslation of CA expressions (and alsoof the multiple occurrence thereofinside a sentence) into a calculus ofintensional logic, it should be notedthat the TFA properties of CA expressionsare directly correlated to the scopeproperties thereof.
Our approach, whichis stated in terms of a l i r~ is t i ctheory, serves as a basis for analgorithm of analysis of CA for purposesof a system of man-machine communicationwithout a pro-arranged data base.positions of the occurrence of negation.As negation only slightly differs in itsdistribution on the surface, there israised a proposal according to whichnegation (and other minority groupadverbs with similar properties) shouldbe generated as a case of CA.CA (including negation and otherminority group adverbs) is defined in FCDby its position in the underlying basicordering of complementations; presumably,it occupies the leftmost, i.e.
thecommunicatively least dynamic position.The TFA properties of CA (also onits multiple occurrence inside asentence) should be taken into accountalso in the translation of CA expressionsinto a calculus of intensional logicbecause they are directly correlated tothe scope properties thereof.The TFA distinctions which arereflected on the surface serve es cluesfor an algorithm of analysis of CAexpressions in written technical textsfor purposes of a question answeringsystem without a pre-arranged data base.I INTRODUCTIONIn the present paper we argue thatthe so-called sentence adverbials(typically, adverbs like probabl~,admittedl2,... ) as well as certainminority group adverbs (such asespecially, also, not, even,...)should be generated-~- in -~ frameworkof Functional Generative Description(henceforth, FGD), by means of a newcomplementation (functor, deep case),namely Complementation of Attitude(henceforth, CA).We argue that in the underlyingstructure of a sentence, CA can occupyseveral positions in the topic-focusarticulation (henceforth, TFA) of asentence, which coincide with theII THEORETICAL BACKGROUNDA.
General IssuesFCD is a multi level system; itconsists of a sequence of five levelswhich are connected by the asymmetricalrelation of form and function, whichaccomts  for the phencmen~ of homonymyand synonymy in natural language.
Thedescription of a sentence is equivalentto a sequence of its representations onall levels.
The differencebetween the level of (strict, literal,linguistic) meaning (i.e.
the underlying,74or tectogr~mmatical level - a level ofdisambiguated linguistic expressions) andthe level of surface syntax, beingparallel to the difference which is madein transformational grammarbetween the levels of deep and surfacestructure, constitutes the strong~ enerative power of the FGD system; see Sgall et al, 1969), (Haji~ovA andSgall, 1980), and (Sgall et al,forthcoming).The grammar of FGD consists of thegenerative component in the form of adependency grammar, which generatesunderlying (tectogrammatical)representations (henceforth, TRs) ofsentences in the form of l inear formulas(which can be rendered also in the shaneof rooted and projective dependencytrees), and of the transductive component,by means of which TRs are translated,step by step, onto the lower levels ofFGD.~ost important for theconsiderations in linguistic theory isthe level of meaning - a link betweenthe lower levels of the linguistic systemand the (extralinguistic) domain ofcognitive (ontological) content.
Itshould be emphasized in this place thatthe distinctions of the level of meaningare correlated to those of the domain ofcognitive content only in the translationof (disambiguated, meaningful) linguisticexpressions into a calculus ofintensional logic, see (\[,~aterna andSgall, 1980), (Kosfk and Sgall, 1981)and (~aterna and Sgall, 1983).
Thus,there should be distinguished, on the onehand, the linguistic semantics, whichdeals only with the distinctions whichare structured by the linguistic form,see (Sgall et al, 1977) and alsode Saussure's and Hjelmslev's conceptionof meaning as "form of content", and onthe other hand, the logical (cognitive)semantics, which is committed to(conceptions of) the ontologicalstructure of reality and which is usedin the interpretation of linguisticexpressions with respect to theextralinguistic content in theirtranslation into a logical calculus, e.g.for purposes of natural languageunderstanding.There are two relations defined onthe dependency tree of the TR of asentence: the relation of dependency andthe relation of the deep word-order,which means that a TR captures thetwofold structuring of (the meaning of)a sentence: its (syntactically based)dependency ~tructure and its (semantico--pragmatically based) communicativestructure, i.e.
its TFA.In the dependency structure of asentence the root of the tree reoresentsthe main verb, and the nodes of the mainsubtree represent its obligatory,optional and free complementations.
Thedependency principle is recursive.
Eachnode has labels of three types: lexemic,morphological (such as -plural,-future,...) and syntactic (such asActor, Locative,...); the syntacticlabels may be alternatively viewed aslabels on the edges of the tree.
Everyverb, noun, adjective and adverb has itscase frame, i.e.
a specificstion of itsobligatory and ootional complementstions,see (Panevov~, 1977).B.
Tooic-Focus Articulation BackgroundIn the communicative structure ofa sentence there is captured the deepword-order of the (occurrences of)complementations, corresponding to ahierarchy of degrees of communicativedynamism thereof, as well as the boundary(boundness juncture) between the topicand the focus of a sentence, i.e.
betweenthe contextually bound and non-boundelements of the main subtree of asentence.
In fact, the above mentionedcommunicative distinctions cut acrossthe dependency structure of a sentence;thus, every embedded clause as well asevery (complex) phrase has its secondsryTFA, including a secondary boundnessjuncture.
The notion of contextualboundness is broadly conceived: not onlya previous mentioning in a text but alsoa situational activation may cause ~hecontextual boundness of an element.
~The degrees of communicativedynamism of the complementationsOn the surface we observe differentmeans of how the TFA of a sentence isexpressed: cf.
the free surface word--order in inflectional languages vs.the various syntactic means in languageswith a fixed (grammatical) surface word--order (such as cleft sentences or theexistential construction there is inEnglish), or the particles ga-a-~ wa inJapanese.
A surface representat ion~f  asentence is often ambiguous betweenseveral possible underlying sourcesconcerning the different placings of theboundness juncture; these possibilitiesmay be disclosed by means of the negationtest or the question test, see (Sgslland Haji~ov~, 1977-78).75occurring in the focus of a sentence(i.e.
also in a topicless sentence) obeythe scale of the underlying basicordering of complementations, orsystemic ordering (i.e.
ordering of alltypes of complementations on theiroccurrence in a topicless sentence).In FGD, universe of discourse isconceived as the activated part of thestock of knowledge shared by the speakerand the hearer during the discourse.
Thestock of shared knowledge is supposed tobe dynamic, i.e.
changing (beingmodified) in time during a discourse.
Themost activated elements of the stock ofshared knowledge appear as thecommunicatively least dynamic occurrencesof complementations inside a sentence.The speaker, essentially, is free in thechoice of the topics of sentences.C.
ExemplificationBy way of illustration of TRs ofsentences in FGD, let us observe thesurface sentence 1 and one of its TRs(namely the one where the Actor iscontextually bound) captured by a(simplified) linear notation andindicated as TR l, where act stands forActor, art for Attitude, loc forLocation, b is a superscript indicatingcontextual boundness, the slash denotesthe boundness juncture of a sentence,and the brackets correspond in a certainway to the edges of the dependency tree.1 Terry will probably run to Brooklyn.TR i ((Terryb)ac t / (probablY)attrun-fut (Brooklyn)loc)III CO~.IPLEi~ENTATION OF ATTITUDEIN THE TOPIC-FOCUSARTICULATION OF A SENTENCEA.
Complementation of Attitudean__~d Ne~ati6nThe starting point of our argumentis the claim that CA obeys essentiallythe same pattern of occurrence in theunderlying TFA structure of a sentenceas the one which was proposed by(Haji~ov~, 1973) for negation.In her conception, negation is anabstract, operator-like functor of FOrwithout a label on its edge and withoutpertinence to the TFA of a sentence; thesymbol NEG, generated as a label on thenode of the functor of negation, mustbe changed by surface rules into suchforms as not, do not, etc.In spite of the allegednon-pertinence of negation to the TFA ofa sentence, there are delineated byHaji~ovA exactly three TFA positions(with respect to the position of theverb) in which negation can be generated;out of them, two belong to the primarycase (negation occurring in the focusof a sentence) and one belongs to thesecondary case (negation occurring inthe topic of a sentence).In the scheme which followswe shall see that these three underlyingpositions are a perfect match to thepossibilities of occurrence, in the TFAof a sentence, of CA.
~ In the examples,the scopes of the expressions in questionare indicated by arrows.
It should benoted that in the primary case (i.e.
in(i) and (ii)), the scopes of theexpressions in question extend over thefocus of a sentence.
(i) The verb of a sentence isnon-bound (i.e.
it occurs in the focusof a sentence).
There is negated("attituded") the relation between thetopic and the focus of a sentence.In fact, there is even a fourthpossible position of negation and CA inthe TFA of a sentence, which can besubcategorized as a subcase of (i):namely, a position where negation and CAare not only less communicativelydynamic than the (non-bound) verb, butwhere they play the role of the leastcommunicatively dynamic element ofa sentence (cf.
TRs 2" and 3", alsounderlying the ambiguous 2 and 3,respectively), this leftmost positioncoinciding with the position of negationand CA in the underlying basic orderingof complementations.TR 2" ( / NEG (TerrY)act run-fut(Brooklyn)lo c)TR 3" ( / (orobablY)st t ~  (Terry)ac trun-rut (Brooklyn)loc)762 Terr 2 will not run to Brookl,yn.2 ((Terryb)act / NEG run-fut TR| ?
(Brooklyn)loc)3 (= l) Terry will probably runto Brooklyn.TR 3 ((Terryb)act / (probablY)at trun-fur (Brooklyn)loc)(ii) The verb of a sentence is bound(i.e.
it occurs in the topic of asentence).
There is negated ("attituded")the relation between the topic and the(nonverbal) focus of a sentence.
In thiscase, negation (or the CA expression)can stand, on the surface, either in thepreverbal ,osition, which gives rise toambiguity with case (i) above (cf.
theambiguous ~urface sentences 2 and 3),or in the ~ostverbal position, which isunambiguou:J (cf.
the surface sentences4 and 5).4 Terry will run not to Brqokl,yn.TR 4 ((Terryb)ac t runb-fut /NEG (Brooklyn)loc)L )Terry will run probably to Brooklyn.TR 5 ((Tezryb)act runb-fut /(probablY)at t (Brooklyn)lo c)(iii) The secondary case.
The verbis bound and it alone is negated("attituded").
In this case, negation(or the CA expression) stands, on thesurface, in the preverbal position,which gives rise to ambiguity with cases(i) and (ii) above.6 (= 2) Terry will not run to Brookl,yn.TR 6 ((Terryb)ac t NEG runb-fut /L(Brooklyn)lo c )7 (= 3) Terry will probably runto Brooklyn.TR 7 ((Terryb)act (proVablyb)~ttrunb-fut / (Brooklyn)lo c)B. Includin~ Negation intoComplementation of A -~tudeOn the basis of the observedcoincidence in the behaviour of negstionand CA in the underlying TFA structureof a sentence, we propose that negationand CA should be collapsed, i.e.
thatnegation should be generated as a case ofCA (by means of CA).
On this prooosal,there would be removed from FGD the onlyabstract label (NEG) and substituted bythe adverb not, which should be viewed asa regular tectogrsmmatical lexical unitoccurring in TRs of sentences.
Thus,TRs 2, 4 and 6 should be readjusted toa shape where instead of NEw'G, not isgenerated as bound or non-bound and asaccompanied by the label of CA (att).b TR 2" ((Terry)act / (n?t)attrun-fut (Brooklyn)loc)TR 4" ((Terryb)act runb-fut /(nOt)at t (Brooklyn)lo c )TR 6" ((Terryb)act (notb)attrunb-fut / (Brooklyn)lo c)The features in which negationdiffers from the rest of CA expressions,such as (i) its non-occurrence in thes@ntence-initial position on the surface(~Not, Terry is singing), (ii) itsnon-occurrence in the function of a loosecomolementation in the sentence-final~ osition (+Terry is singing, not) and iii) its regular occurrence in questionsand commands, should be treated asexceptions which do not have the forceto overthrow the generalization statedin III C., concerning the behaviour of CA(including negation) in the underlyingstructure of a declarative sentence.Moreover, as we shall see in III D., notis not an isolated item among the otherCA expressions because there are alsoother minority group adverbs obeying thesame paradigm of occurrence in the TFAof a sentence which exhibit the essentialidiosyncratic properties of not.77C.
Generalizing about C0mplementationof AttitudeOn grounds of the evidence suppliedin I I IA.
,  there can be made a~ eneralization according to which CA including negation) occupies, in theunderlying basic ordering ofcomplementations, the position of theleftmost, i.e.
the least communicativelydynamic element, which means that itoccurs inside a sentence (in the primarycase, i.e.
in (i) and (ii) of I I IA.
)as the least communicatively dynamicelement of the focus, thus olaying onthe surface (with the exception of thepreverbal positions) the role of thetopic-focus boundary indicator (cf.examples 4 and 5).Thus, CA is defined, as acomplementation of FGD, by its positionin the underlying basic ordering ofcomplementations.
In fact, everyadverbial expression which obeys theparadigm of occurrence in the TFA of asentence as specified in I I IA .
(theposition in the underlying basicordering being only one instance thereof- cf.
Footnote 2) should be classifiedas a case of CA, however idiosyncraticit may seem as concerns its lexicalsemantics, its distributional properties,or its possibilities of paraphrasing.to the single minority adverb groups(and even adverbial ex~ressions belongingto one group) differ in their lexicalsemantics, distributional properties,and possibilities of oara~hrasing.The groups of CA expressions can betentatively subcategorized as follows:(i) "style disjuncts" (briefly, honestly,simply,...); (ii) adverbials ofviewpoint (in m~ view~ accordin~ to thenewspapers,...); (iii) "attitudinaldisjuncts" (admittedly, surprisingly,unfortunately,...); (iv) adverbials ofsubjective certainty (probabl~, possibly,certainly,...); (v) "particularizers"( ~ ,  especially,...); (vi)"additives" (also, a~, .
.~) ;  (vii) .negation (not,Tj--and--(-v-Hi) exclusives(only, even,...).We suppose that groups (i), (ii)and (iii) are open-ended (i.e.productive), whereas the members ofgroups (iv), (v), (vi), (vii), and (viii)can be listed; these groups can be thenlabelled as minority adverb ~roups.
Outof them, grouos (v) - (viii) exhibit theidiosyncratic properties mentioned abovein III B. and III D.D.
Includin 6 other minority adverb~ into Complementation ofdeWe argue that there should beincluded into CA also other minorityadverb groups consisting of adverbialexpressions (adverbs) which obey theparadigm of occurrence in the TFA of asentence as specified in I I IA .
andwhich share the essential idiosyncraticproperties of not , such as especially,ma i_~,  also, a~ain, even, and only.All of them"exhibit th-~ropert1-~( i i )and (iii) (as specified in III B.
), andonly exhibits also (i).We propose, then, that CA should beviewed as a means of generatingadverbial expressions which exhibit aspecial kind of behaviour in the TFA ofa sentence (specified in I I IA.)
andwhich can be divided into several groujs;the expressions belonging to the singlegroups are supposed to be differentiatedprimarily by their mutual ordering, whichdictates their scope properties and whoseviolation yields ungran~naticality (cf.IV).
The adverbial expressions belongingIV ~LT IPLE  OCCURRENCE OFCO~PLE?~NTATION OFATTITUDF INSID~A SENTENCEIn the underlying representationsof sentences in FGD, CA can be generatedessentially on two principles ofmultiple occurrence of a com~lementationinside a sentence.
(i) Firstly, there can be generatedin the focus (and in the secondary case,also in the topic) of a sentenceclusters of two or more occurrences ofCA, which differ in the degrees of theircon~unicative dynamism; there holdspecific scope relations between them;the CA expression with the highestdegree of communicative dynsmism in thecluster has in its scooe the rest of thefocus of a sentence (in the ~rimarycase), or the rest of the topic (in thesecondary case); the other CAexpressions in the cluster have in theirscopes the rest of the cluster.78If the adverbial expressions insidethe cluster belong to different groups ofCA, they obey a certain kind of ordering(as suggested by the listing in III D.),whose violatio~ yields ungrammaticality(cf.
8 vs. 9).
If, however, theadverbial expressions occurring insidethe cluster belong to the same group,they cooccur without any restrictionson their order.Terry will run /probably not only to Brookl.yn.I ,9 +Terr 2 will run /only not probably to Brooklyn.If two occurrences of CA aredetached by the boundness junctureof a sentence, they may cooccur withoutany resSrictions on their order becausetheir scopes do not overlap; cf.
lO,containing two negations.lO Terry did not sin~ /not because of Mary.
(ii) Secondly, we suppose that onthe coordinative-appositive principle ofmultiple occurrence of a complementationinside a sentence, the occurrences of acomplementation do not differ in theirdegrees of communicative dynamism, andhence, that their order does notcorrespond directly to the principles ofthe TFA of a sentence: a coordinative orappositive unit presumably occupies, inthe underlying representation of asentence, the position of one "word" inthe deep word-order.
In TRs of sentencesin FGD, coordination and apposition arenot represented by means of thedependency tree, but require a specialdevice.
Thus, coordinative and appositiveoccurrences of CA have identical scopes:in ll, probably and certainly have intheir scopes Terry will run to Brooklyn,3 On the multiple occurrence of CAwithin the loose occurrence thereof orwithin the coordinative-appositivemultiple occurrence thereof, CAexpressions do not obey the orderingsuggested in III D; cf.
a.a.
Tragically but not surprisingly,Terry loves Mar~.and in 12, Terry loves Mary.
In thelinear representation, it is not possibleto indicate the scopes by arrows.ll Probably or certainly r Terry will runto Brookl.yn.12 Probably, i.e.
far from certainly,Terry loves Mary.ANALYSIS OF CO~LEMENTATIONOF ATTITUDEIn the analysis of simple CAoccurrences in sentences in writtentechnical texts within the framework ofthe question answering system TIBAO(cf.
(~gall, 1983)), cases to be resolvedby an algorithm concern, in fact, onlythose adverbs which may function both asCA and as Complementation of ~nner(such as amusingly, curiously,delightfully, foolishly, naturally,really, reasonably, S~rangely,surprisingly, unexpectedly, ~ , .
.
.of group (iii), or honest ly ,~,~, .
.
.
of group (i)).
The adverbsw-h -~can function only as CA (such asprobably, admittedly, unfortunately,...- there are at least one hundred ofthem) should be listed in the lexicon.Presumably, there occurs only onekind of genuine ambiguity with theadverbs which may function in thementioned two ways (cf.
line 8 of thealgorithm below); 4 other cases ofsurface ambiguity can be resolved by analgorithm, due to the underlying TFAdistinctions which are reflected on thesurface (cf.
line 9 of the algorithmbelow) as well as due to some4 In cases of genuine ambiguity (suchas the one in 8 of the algorithm), theadverbial expression in question(naturally) cannot be resolvedautomatically because of the lack ofsurface clues for the disambiguation ofthe boundness juncture of the sentence:in this case, the adverbial expressionin question functions as C~ if it islocated in the focus of a sentence, and ~as non-CA if it is located in the topicof a sentence.79idiosyncratic surface clues with theloose occurrence of CA in the sentence--final position (cf.
line 6 of thealgorithm below).YES NO1.
Is the adverb listed inthe lexicon as a CAexpression?
5 22.
~oes the adverb occur inthe sentence-finalposition?
3 43.
Is the adverb detached bya comma from the rest ofthe sentence?
6 74.
Does the adverb occur inan immediately postverbalposition?
8 95.
CA: Terry is probably singing.Terry is singing probably inthe garden.
Etc.6.
CA: Terry is singing, naturally.7.
non-CA: Terry is singing naturally..8. genuine ambiguity: Terry is singingnaturall~ in thegarden.
.
.
.
.
.
.9.
CA: Naturally, Terry is singingin the garden.
Terry i.snaturally singing in the garden.Terry is singing in the gardennaturally with his friends.It can be concluded that from theviewpoint of computational applications,the definition of CA in terms of the TFAof a sentence has enabled us to construea simple algorithm of analysis of CAexpressions, which is hopefullyextendable also over the cases ofmultiple occurrence of CA insidea sentence.
~Ioreover, CA expressionsoccurring inside a sentence canthemselves provide a clue forthe disambiguation of the topic-focusboundary of a sentence.VI HLPEEENCESHajiSovA Eva.
Negation s~d Topic vs.Comment.
Philologica Pragensia, 1973,16:2, 81-93.and Sgall Petr.A Dependency Based Specification ofTopic and Focus.
Journal of Linguisti cCalculus, 1980, l:l-2, 93-140.and Sgall Petr.
TowardsAutomstic Understanding of TechnicalTexts.
Prague Bulletin of ~athematicalLinguistics, 1981, 36, 5-24.Koslk Antonln and Sgall Petr.
Towardsa Semantic Interpretation of UnderlyingStructures.
Theoretical Linguistics,1981, 8:1-3, 157-171.~aterna Pavel and Sgall Petr.
FunctionalSentence Perspective, the QuestionTest and Intensional Semantics.Journal of Linguistic Calculus, 1980,l:l-2, 141-160.and 8gall Petr.
OptionalParticipants in a SemanticInterpretation (Arity of Predicatesand Case Frames of Verbs).
PragueBulletin of Nathematical Linguistics,1983, 39, 27-39.Panevov~ Jarmila.
Verbal FramesRevisited.
Pra,~ue Bulletin ofr~athematical L~n~uistics, 1977, 28,55-72.8gall Petr.
Relevance of Topic and Focusfor Automatic Question Answering.
In:Ferenc Kiefer (ed.
): Questions andAnswers.
Reidel Publishing Company,, Nebesk~ Ladislav, Goral~ikov~Alla and Haji~ov~ Eva.
A Functiona 1Approach to 8,yntax.
New York: Elsevier,1969,, HajiSov~ Eva and Bene~ov~Eva.
Topic r Focus, and GenerativeSemantics.
Kronberg/Ts.
: $criotorVerlag, 1973., Haji~ovA Zva ~,nd Proch~zkaOld~ich.
Cn the Role of LinguisticSemantics.
Theoretical Linguistics,1977, 4:1, 39-51.and Haji~ov~ Eva.
Focus onFocus.
Prague Bulletin of ~TathematicalLinguistics, 1977-78, 28, 5-54, and29, 23-41., HajiSov~ Ev~ emd Vanevov~Jarmila.
The TM ~,esnln~ of s Sentence inIts Semantic and Pr~mmti6 Aspects.Forthcoming.80
