VOCAL INTEILFACE FOR A MAN-MACHINE DIALOGDominique BEROULELIMSI (CNRS), B.P.
30, 91406 ORSAY CEDEX, FRANCEABSTRACTWe describe a dialogue-handling module used asan interface between a vocal terminal and a task-oriented device (for instance : a robot manipula-ting blocks).
This module has been specially desi-gned to be implanted on a single board using micro-processor, and inserted into the vocal terminalwhich already comprises a speech recognition boardand a synthesis board.
The entire vocal system isat present capable of conducting a real time spo-ken dialogue with its user.I INTRODUCTIONA great deal of interest is actually beingshown in providing computer interfaces through dia-log processing systems using speech input and out-put (Levinson and Shipley, 1979).
In the same time,the amelioration of the microprocessor technologyhas allowed the implantation of word recognitionand text-to-speech synthesis systems on singleboards (Li~nard and Mariani, 1982 ; Gauvain, 1983 ;Asta and Li~nard, 1979) ; in our laboratory, suchmodules have been integrated into a compact unitthat forms an autonomous vocal processor which hasapplications in a number of varied domains : vocalcommand of cars, of planes, office automation andcomputer-aided learning (N~el et al, 1982).Whereas most of the present language under-standing systems require large computational re-sources, our goal has been to implement a dialog-handling board in the LIMSI's Vocal Terminal.The use of micro-systems introduces memory si-ze and real-time constraints which have incited usto limit ourselves in the use of presently availa-ble computational linguistic techniques.
Therefore,we have taken inspiration from a simple model ofsemantic network ; for the same reasons, the ini-tial parser based on an Augmented Transition Net-work (Woods, 1970) and implemented on an IBM 370(Memmi and Mariani, 1982) was replaced by anotherless time- and memory-consuming one.The work presented herein extends possibleapplication fields by allowing an interactive vocalrelation between the machine and its user for theexecution of a specific task : the application thatwe have chosen is a man-machine communication witha robot manipulating blocks and using a Plan Gene-rating System.SPEECH I RECOGNIZERSEMANTIC \[ SYNTACTICPROCESSING ANALYSISSEMANTIC \]TREATMENTI 8"ANC"INO.,I\'I  o .t.E I  .AsE QOEST,ONiiil II B ASSERT~N ANSWER i t / .
/ fISENTENCE I !'
PRODUCTION (t (SPEECH J SYNTHESIZERFigure I.
Block diagram of ~he systemII SYNTACTIC PROCESSINGA.
Prediction DeviceOnce the acoustic processing of the speech si-gnal is performed by the 250 word-based recognitionboard, syntactic analysis is carried out.It may be noted that response time and wordconfusions increase with the vocabulary size ofword recognition systems.
To limit the degradationof performance, syntactic information is used :words that can possibly follow a given word may bepredicted at each step of the recognition processwith the intention of reducing vocabulary.43B.
Parameters TransferIn order to build a representation of the deepstructure of an input sentence, parameters reque-sted by the semant icprocedures must be filled withthe correct values.
The parsing method that we de ~velopped considers the naturel language utterancesas a set of noun phrases connected with functionwords (prepositions, verbs ...) which specify theirrelationships.
At the present time, the set of nounphrases is obtained by segmenting the utterance ateach function word.SlfLe petit chat gris a t t rap~la  sour i~JSI I  ?
S12(the small grey cat is catching the mouse)parameters :O11 *-chat ~ 012 ~-sourisPll *-(petit  gris)P I2* -N IL$22S11 ?
S12 ~$21 ~$221 ~ $222Pr~-~end"la pyranlide e t 'pose l~-~sur~egros  cube"t SI t S2(grasp the pyramid and put it on the big cub)parameters :X O11.- NIL ?
O21 *-NILPII*- NIL ~ P21 ~-NILV1 4-- prendre { V2 4- poserO12 *-pyramide ?
0221?pyramidePI2 ~ (petite) X P221~(petite)Figure 2.
Parameters transferVI ~-attraper0222 ~ cubeP222~- (gros)III SEMANTIC PROCESSINGA.
S\[stem knowledge dataThe computational semantic memory is inspiredby the Collins and Quillian model, a hierarchicalnetwork in which each node represents a concept.Properties can be assigned to each node, which al-so inherits those of its ancestors.
Our choice hasbeen influenced by the desire to design a systemwhich would be able to easily learn new conceptS ;that is, to complete or to modify its knowledgeaccording to information coming from a vocal input/output system.Each noun of the vocabulary is represented bya node in such a tree structure.
The meaning of anygiven verb is provided by rules that indicate thetype of objects that can be related.
As far as ad-jectives are concerned, they are arranged in exclu-sive property groups.Has skin?
~ Can move aroundAnlmmal A~.
EatsBirdJ~---Can f ly F i sh '~Can swimIs pink / \ ,as,oog /.
an hi.
Z,s edibleCan sing .
thin legs ~Can,  ,, Os t r i ch~th in  ~ ~ gs Shark~ IS dange- Sa I mon~",i~ S. .
.
.
.
p-Is yellOW "- - ~--Is ~al ~_ .
rous stream toCanary Can't f ly lay eggs{C0\]\]ins & Quil|ian 1969)Figure 3.
Semantic memory modelThe knowledge-based data (which may be enlar-ged by information provided by the vocal channel)is complemented by temporary data which chronologi-cally contain, in abbreviated form, events evokedduring the dialogue.B.
Assertion processin~The small amount of data representing a givenuniverse allows us to approach the computationaltreatment of these two complementary and contrarycomponents of dialogue: learning and contestation.Every time an assertion is proposed by theuser a procedure parses its semantic validity byanswering the question "Does this sentence fit withthe current state of the knowledge data ?".
If acontradiction is detected, it is pointed out to theuser who must justify his proposal.
If the userpersists in his declaration, the machine may thenmodify its universe knowledge, otherwise the utte-rance is not taken into account.When no contradiction is encountered, the pro-gram enters into a learning process adding to thetemporary data or knowledge-based data.User : Un poisson poss~de des plumes(A fish has got feathers)System : J'ai compris ... As-tu quelque choseajouter ?
(I have understood ... Would you like tosay something else ?
)U : Une truite poss~de des ~cailles(A trout has got scales)S : Je croyais qu'un poisson poss~dait des plumes(I thought that a fish had got feathers)U : Non (No)S : D'accord ... (All right)U : Qu'est-ce qu'un poisson ?
(What is a fish ?
)S : C'est un animal qui poss~de des ~cailles(It is an animal which has got scales)44I.
Teaching utterancesThese assertions, characterized by the pre-sence of a non-action verb, permit both the com-plete construction of the semantic network and ofthe concept relation rules specifying the possibleentities that can serve as arguments for a predi-cate.Although most of our knowledge results fromlong nurturing and frequent interactions with theoutside world, it is possible to give an approxi-mate meaning to concrete objects and verbs byusing an elementary syntax.
A new concept may betaught by filling in its position within the se-mantic network and possibly associating it withproperties that will differentiate it from itsbrother nodes.
Concept relation rules can be learn-ed, too.U : Le caf~ ... (coffee ...)S : Qu'est ce qu'un caf~ (What is coffee)U : Le caf~ ressemble ~ du lait(Coffee looks like milk)S : ...U : Le caf~ est noir (coffee is black)S : Je pense avoir compris ... ~ toi(I think that I have understood ...)U : Qu'est ce que du caf~ ?
(What is coffee ?
)S : Le caf~ est un liquide noir(Coffee is a black liquid)U : Tu bois du caf~ (You are drinking coffee)S : C'est impossible (It is impossible)U : Un ordinateur peut boire un liquide(A computer is able to drink a liquid)S : C'est bon ... j'ai compris(That's right ...
I have understood)U : Tu bois du caf~ (You are drinking coffee)S : D'accord (Okay)U : Qui bois du caf~ ?
(Who is drinking coffee ?
)S : Je le bois (I am drinking it)2.
Descriptive utterancesSentences involving an action verb are trans-lated into an unambiguous representation which con-denses and organizes information into the very sameform as that of the concept relation rules fromknowledge data.
Therefore, semantic validity can beeasily tested by a pattern-matching process.
A se-mantic event reduced to a nested-triplet structureand considered as valid is then inserted in thedynamic-events memory, and can be requested lateron by the question-answering process.Although the language is limited to a smallsubset of natural French, several equivalent syn-tactic structures are allowed to express a givenevent ; in order to avoid storing multiple repre-sentations of the same event, paraphrases of a givenutterance are reduced to a single standard form.One of the task effected by a language under-standing system consists of recognizing the conceptsthat are evoked inside the input utterances.
Assoon as ambiguities are detected, they are resolvedthrough interaction with the user.U : Je prends le cube I (I am taking the cube I)S : S'agit-il du petit cube I ?
(Is the small cube I in question ?
)U : ~ i  (Yes it is)S :O .K .Relative~ clauses are not represented in thecanonical form of the utterance in which theyappear, but they are only used to determine whichconcept is in question.article i - Nun !
- Adjective I - Verb - article 2 - Adjec.
2 - Nun 2abbreviated form : @ (( NI A1 )( N2 A2 ))) = semantic event Erelation rule n ?
i :i p~2) ) ((o~2 p~2) (022E allowable (~ 3 ( i , j )  / V k = i ,  2iV .= R0 i N k E ~ (kj)Pkj E ~-~ (N k)Pkj ~ AkFigure 4.
Pattern-matching of a simplesentenceRelationObjectProperty(~ : Descendants){ .~ : Property group)(~ : Compatible with)saisis les cubes 2 et 5 (grasp cubes 2 and 5)prends le cube 2 et le 5(take hold of the cube 2 and the 5 one)attrape le cube 2 et saisis le cube 5(lay hold of the cube 2 and grasp the cube 5)canonical form :(ASK((YOU)((TAKE((1)(CUBE(2))&(CUBE(5)))))))Figure 5.
Paraphrases translation3.
OrdersInput utterances beginning with an action verbspecify an order that the machine connected to thevocal interface is supposed to execute ; in addi-tion to the deep structure of this natural languagemessage, a formal command language message is builtand then sent to the machine.
The task universememory is modified in order to reflect the execu-tion of a user's command.User : Prends la pyramide qui est sur la table etpose.
la sur le gros cube (grasp the pyramidwhich is on the table and put it on the bigcube)Machine : S'agit-il du gros cube 3 ?
(are you talking of the big cube 3 ?
)User : Oui (yes)Machine : D'accord (all right)Deep structure45(ASK((YOU)((TAKE((1)(PYRAMID(SMALL)))))&((PUT((1)((ON((PYRAMID(SMALL))(CUBE(GROS 3))formal command : ((HOLD PYR2)(ON PYR2 CUB3))User : Qu'ai je fait (What did I do)Deep structure : (DO ((YOU) ?
)Machine : Tu as demand~ que je prenne la petitepyramide et que je pose la petite pyra-mide sur le gros cube 3 (You have askedme to grasp the small pyramid and putthe small pyramid on the big cube 3)User : Qu ia  saisi un objet (Who has taken anobject)Deep structure : (TAKE ( ?
(OBJ)))Machine : J'ai pris la petite pyramide (I havegrasped the small pyramid)User : Qu'as-tu fait apr~s ?
(What have you doneafterwards ?
)Deep structure : (DO ((I) ?
))Machine : J'ai pos~ la petite pyramide sur le groscube 3 (I put the small pyramid on thebig cube 3)C. Question processingIn everyday language, intonation often conti-tutes the marker that discriminates between ques-tions and assertions.
Since prosody information isnot presently taken into account by the word recog-nition system, the presence of an interrogativepronoun switches on the information research pro-cessing in permanent knowledge-data or in dynamic-events memory.I.
Research in permanent knowledge-dataThe program is allowed to express its know-ledge at the user's request, for instance, on con-cept meanings, or the systems abilities.U : Qui es-tu ?
(Who are you ?
)S : Je suis un ordinateur bavard (I am a talkativecomputer)U : Puis-je parler avec toi ?
(Can I speak with you ?
)S : Oui, c'est possible (Yes, that is possible)U : Tu es une souris (You are a mouse)S : Je pensais que j'~tais un ordinateur(I thought that I was a computer)U : C'est faux (That's false)S : O.K.U : Qui es-tu ?
(Who are you ?
)S : Je suis une souris bavarde(I am a talkative mouse)U : Est-ce qu'un chat peut parler avec toi ?
(Is a cat able to speak with you ?
)S : Bien ~r  que non (Of course not)2.
Research in d~na~nic-events dataThe abbreviated semantic events list is close-ly examined, from recent to older data, until thequestion-pattern approximately matches one of thememorized events.
Possible analogy between a memo-rized event and one evoked by the question is thenanalysed.
Coincidences rarely happen, so the systemmust be able to ask for full specifications aboutthe event that interests the user ; at that timethere is a vocal discussion aimed at leading thesystem to that event in a step-wise manner.U : Une femme blonde cherche une brosse( A blond woman is looking for a brush)S : D'accord, je comprends (All right, I under-stand)U : Je cherche un peigne (I am looking for a comb)S : Tr~s int~ressant ... (Very interesting ...)U : Quel ~tre humain cherche quelque chose ?
(What human being is looking for something ?
)S : S'agit-il de toi ?
(Are you talking aboutyourself ?
)U : Non (No)S : S'agit-il d'une femme blonde ?
(Are you talkingabout a blond woman ?
)U : Oui (Yes)S : Elle cherche une brosse (She is looking for abrush)D. Processing a user's incomplete utteranceAn important specific quality of the semanticprocess is that it is able to accomodate bad acous-tical recognition through intelligent interactivefeedback.So, when one part of a given sentence has notbeen recognized, because of mispronunciation orbackground noise, the system produces a suitablequestion bringing the user to repeat the unrecogni-zed word within his answer.Two cases can occur :if the word is again unrecognized, the systemassumes that the entity is not in the prescribedvocabulary (containing the acoustic features ofthe words).
An explanatory message is then producedthrough the synthesis module.if the lexical entity is well recognized thistime, it is added to the previous utterance andcomputed in the same manner as the others.U "S ?U :S :S :U :S :U :S :S :U :S :Je (?)
un livre (I am (?)
a book)Que fais-tu avec le livre ?
(What are you doing with the book)Je le mange (I am eating it)C'est impossible ... je ne te crois pas(It is impossible ...
I do not believe you)Une (?)
femme boit du th~(A (?)
woman is drinking tea)Comment est la femme ?
(What is the womanlike ?
)Elle est grande (She is tall)O.K.Est-ce qu'une fen~ne bolt du th~ ?
(Is a woman drinking tea ?
)Oui, la grande femme (Yes, a fat woman is)Un honm~e lit un gros (?
)(A man is reading a thick (? )
)Que lit-il ?
(What is he reading ?
)Un gros livre (A thick book)J'ai compris (I have understood)46U : Qui lit un livre ?
(Who is reading a book ?
)S : Un homme lit un gros livre(A man is reading a thick book)When a certain amount of acoustical componentsin a sentence have not been recognized, the systemasks for the user to repeat his assertion.U : Le (?)
(?)
un petit (?
)s : Peux-tu r~p~ter s'il te plait ?E.
Sentence production1.
Translation of a deep structure into anoutput sentenceThis process consists of inserting semanticentities into the suitable syntactic diagram whichdepends on the computational procedure that is ac-tivated (question answering, contradiction, learn-ing, asking for specifications ...).
Since eachsyntactic variation of a word corresponds to a sin-gle semantic representation, sentence generationmakes use of verb conjugation procedures and con-cordance procedures.In order to improve the natural quality ofspeech, different types of sentences expressing onesame idea may be generated in a pseudo-random man-ner.
The same question asked to the system severaltimes can thus induce different formulated respon-ses.2.
Text-to-speech transcription ambiguitiesA module of the synthesis process takes anyFrench text and determines the elements necessaryfor the diphone synthesis, with the help of a dic-tionnary containing pronunciation rules and theirexceptions (Prouts, 1979).
However, some ambigui-ties concerning text-to-speech transcription canstill remain and cannot be resolved without syn-tactico-semantic information ; for instance :"Les poules du couvent couvent" (the convent hensare sitting on their eggs) is pronounced by thesynthesizer : / I ?
p u I d y k u v ~ k u v E /(the convent hens ~onvent).To deal with that problem, we may send thesynthesizer the phonetic form of the words.IV CONCLUSIONThe dialog experiment is presently running ona PDP 11/23 MINC and on an INTEL development systemwith a VLISP interpreter in real-time and using aseries interface with the vocal terminal.The isolated word recognition board we areusing for the moment makes the user pause for appro-ximately half a second between each word he pronoun-ces.
In the near future we plan to replace thismodule by a connected word system which will makethe dialog more natural.
It may be noted that thecompactness of the understanding program allows itsimplantation on a microprocessor board which is tobe inserted in the vocal terminal.At present we apply ourselves to make thedialog-handling module easily adaptable to variousdomains of application.D1MACHINEFigure 6.
Multibus configuration of theVocal TerminalAcknowledgementsWe are particulary grateful to Daniel MEMMI,Jean-Luc GAUVAIN and Joseph MARIANI for their pre-cious help during the course of this work.
Specialthanks to Maxine ESKENAZI, Fran~oise NEEL andMich~le CHASTAGNER.REFERENCESV.
ASTA, J.S.
LIENARD - L'icophone logiciel : unsynth~tiseur par formes d'ondes - 10e JEP,Grenoble, 1979.E.
CHARNIAK, Y. WILKS (editors) - ComputationalSemantics - North-Holland, 1976.A.M.
COLLINS, M.R.
QUILLIAN - Retrieval time fromsemantic memory - Journal of Verbal Learningand Verbal Behavior, 1969.J .
L .
GAUVAIN - Reconnaissance de mots enchaln~s etd~tection de mots dans la parole continue -Th~se 3e cycle, Orsay, 1982.S.E.
LEVINSON, K.L.
SHIPLEY - A conversationalsystem using speech input end output -The Bell System Technical Journal, vol.
59,n ?
I, january 1980.J.S.
LIENARD, J.J. MARIANI - Syst~me de reconnais-sance de mots isol~s : MOISE - RegistredTechnical Report ANVAR n ?
50312, juin 1980.47D.
MEMMI, J.J. MARIANI  - ARBUS : A tool for deve-loping appl icat ion grammars - Coling, Prague,1982.F.
NEEL, J.S.
LIENARD, J.J. MARIANI  - An experimentof vocal con~nunicatinn appl ied to computer-aided learning - IFIP WCCES\], jui l let  1981.B.
PROUTS - Traduct ion phon~tique de textes ~critsen frangais - l Oe JEP, Grenoble, 1979.R.
SCHANK - Conceptual  information processing -North Holland, 1975.T.
WINOGRAD - Understanding natural  language -Academic Press, 1972.W.A.
WOODS - Trans i t ion network grammar for natu-ral language analysis - Communicat ion of theACM, vol.
13, n ?
I0, 1970.48
