AN EXPERIMENT WITH HEURISTIC PARSING OF SWEDISHBenny BroddaInst.
of LinguisticsUniversity of StockholmS-I06 91 Stockholm SWEDENABSTRACTHeuristic parsing is the art of doing parsingin a haphazard and seemingly careless manner butin such a way that the outcome is still "good", atleast from a statistical point of view, or, hope-fully, even from a more absolute point of view.The idea is to find s t rateg ic  shortcuts  der ivedfrom guesses about the structure of a sentencebased on scanty observat ions  of linguistic unitsIn the sentence.
If the guess comes out right muchpars ing t ime can be saved, and if it does not,many subobservat ions  may st i l l  be val id for re-v ised guesses.
In the (very pre l iminary)  exper i -ment reported here the main idea is to make use of( combinat ions  of) surface phenomena as much asposs ib le  as the base for the pred ic t ion  of thes t ructure  as a whole.
In the parser to be deve-loped along the lines sketched in this report mains t ress  is put on ar r iv ing  at independent lyworking, parallel recognition procedures.The work reported here Is both aimed at simu-lat lng cer ta in  aspects of human language per-cept ion  and at ar r iv ing  at e f fect ive  a lgor i thmsfor actual  pars ing of running text.
There is,indeed, a great need for fast such a lgor i thms,e.g.
for the analysis of the literally millions ofwords of running text that already today comprisethe data bases in var ious large in fo rmat ion  re-t r ieval  systems,  and which  can be expected toexpand several  orders of magn i tude  both in im-portance and In size In the foreseeable future.I BACKGROUNDThe genera !
idea behind the system for heu-ristic parsing now being developed at our group inS tockho lm dates more than 15 years back, when Iwas mak ing  an invest igat ion  (together wi th HansKar lgren,  Stockho lm)  of the poss ib i l i t ies  ofusing computers for information retrieval purposesfor the Swedish Governmental Board for Rationali-zat ion (Statskontoret).
In the course of thisinvest igat ion  we performed some psycholingulsticexper iments  a imed at f inding out to what extentsur face markers,  such as endings, prepos i t ions,con junct ions  and other (bound) e lements  fromtyp ica l ly  c losed categor ies  of linguistic units,could serve as a base for a syntactic analysis ofsentences.
We sampled a couple of texts more orless at random and prepared them in such a waythat stems of nouns, adjectives and (main) verbs -these categor ies  being thought of as the maincarriers of semantic Information - were substi-tuted for by a mere "-", whereas other formativeswere left in their original shape and place.
Thesetransformed texts were presented to subjects whowere  asked to fill in the gaps in such a way thatthe texts thus obtained were to be both syntacti-cally correct and reasonably coherent.The result of the exper iment  was ratherastonishing.
It turned out that not only were thesyntactic structures mainly restored, in some fewcases also the original content was reestablished,a lmost  word by word.
(It was beyond any poss i -bility that the subjects could have had access tothe original text.)
Even in those cases when thetext i tsel f  was not restored to this remarkab leextent, the stylistic value of the var ious textswas almost invariably reestablished; an originallyl ively, narrat ive  story came out as a l ively,nar rat ive  story , and a piece of rather dull,factual  text (from a school  text book on socio-logy) invariably came out as dull, factual prose.This experiment showed quite clearly that atleast for Swedish the information contained in thecombinat ions  of surface markers  to a remarkab lyhigh degree ref lects  the syntact ic  s t ructure  ofthe or ig ina l  text; in a lmost  all cases also thes ty l i s t ic  value and in some few cases even thesemant ic  content  was kept.
(The extent to wh ichthis is true is probably language dependent; Swe-dish is rather rich in morpho logy,  and thisproperty is certainly a contributing factor for anexperiment of this type to come out successful tothe extent it actually did.
)This type of exper iment  has since then beenrepeated many times by many scholars; in fact, itls one of the standard ways to demonst ra te  theconcept of redundancy in texts.
But there areseveral other important conclusions one could drawfrom this type of exper iments .
F irst  of all, ofcourse, the obvious conc lus ion  that sur faces ignals  do carry a lot of in fo rmat ion  about thes t ructure  of sentences,  probably  much more thanone has been inclined to think, and, consequently,It could be wor th  wh i le  to try to capture thatIn fo rmat ion  in some kind of automat ic  analys issystem.
This is the pract ica l  side of it.
Butthere is more to it.
One must ask the question whya language llke Swedish is llke this.
What are thetheoretical implications?Much Interest has been devoted in later yearsto theor ies (and speculat ions)  about human per-66ception of linguistic stimuli, and I do not thinkthat one speculates  too much if one assumes thatsurface markers  of the type that appeared in thedescr ibed exper iment  together  const i tute  im-portant  clues concern ing the gross syntact icstructure of sentences (or utterances), clues thatare probably much less consiously perceived than,e.g., the actual  words in the sentences /ut teran-ces.
To the extent that such clues are actua l lyperce ived they are obv ious ly  perce ived s imul ta -neous ly  with, i.e.
in para l le l  with, other units(words, for instance).The above way of looking upon perception as aset of independent ly  operat ing  processes is, ofcourse, more or less generally accepted nowadays(cf., e.g., L indsay-Norman 1977), and it is alsogenera l ly  accepted in computat iona l  linguisticsthat any program that a ims at s imu la t ing  per-cept ion in one way or other must  have featuresthat s imulates  (or, even better, actual ly  per-forms) para l le l  processing,  and the analys issystem to be described below has much emphasis onexactly this feature.Another  common saying nowadays  when dis-cussing parsing techniques is that one should tryto incorporate "heur ist ic  devices" (cf., e.g.,the many subreports  related to the big ARPA-project  concern ing Speech Recognition and Under-standing 1970-76), a l though there does not seemto exist a very precise consensus of what exactlythat would  mean.
(In mathemat ics  the term hasbeen t rad i t iona l ly  used to refer to in formalreasoning, espec ia l ly  when used in c lassroomsituations.
In a famous study the hungar ianmathemat ic ian Polya, 1945 put forth the thesisthat heur is t ics  is one of the most importantpsycho log ica l  dr iv ing mechan isms behind mathe-mat ica l  - or sc ient i f i c  - progress.
In AI-l i terature it is often used to refer to shortcutsearch methods in semant ic  networks/spaces; c.f.Lenat, 1982).One reason for trying to adopt some kind ofheur is t ic  device in the analys is  procedures isthat one for mathemat ica l  reasons knows thatordinary, "careful", parsing algorithms inherentlyseem to refuse to work in real t ime (i.e.
inlinear time), whereas human beings, on the whole,seem to be able to do exact ly  that (i.e.
perceivesentences or utterances simultaneously with theirproduction).
Parallel processing may partly be ananswer  to that d i lemma,  but stil l , any processthat c la ims to actual ly  s imulate  some part ofhuman percept ion must in some way or others imu la te  the remarkab le  abi l i t ies  human beingshave in grasp ing complex  patterns ("gestalts")seemingly in one single operation.Ordinary, careful, pars ing a lgor i thms areo f ten  organ ized  accord ing  to some genera lpr inc ip le  such as "top-down", "bottom-to-top","breadth  f i rst" ,  "depth  f i rst" ,  etc., theseheadings referr ing to some speci f ied type of"strategy".
The heur ist ic  model  we are trying towork out has no such preconceived strategy builtinto  it.
Our  ph i losophy  is ins tead  ra theranarch is t ic  (The Heur is t i c  Principle): Whateverlinguistic unit that can be identified at whateverstage of the analysis, according to whatever meansthere are, i_~s identified, and the significance ofthe fact that the unit in quest ion  has beenidentified is made use of in all subsequent stagesof the analysis.
At any time one must.be preparedto reconsider an already established analysis of aunit on the ground that ev idence a~alnst  theanalysis may successively accumulate due to whatanalyses other units arrive at.In next sect ion we give a br ief  descr ip t ionof the  analys is  system for Swed ish  that is nowunder deve lopment  at our group in Stockholm.
Ashas been said, much effort  is spent on try ing tomake use of sur face s ignals  as much as possible.Not that we bel ieve that surface s ignals  play amore  impor tant  ro le  than  any  o ther  type oflinguistic signals, but rather that we think it isimportant  to try to opt imize  each s ingle sub-p rocess  (in a para l le l  sys tem)  as much as~osslble,  and, as said, it might  be wor th  whi leto look careful  into this level, because the im-portance of surface signals might have been under-estimated in previous research.
Our exneriments sofar seem to indicate that they const i tute  ex-cel lent  units  to base heur is t ic  guesses on.
An-other reason for concentrating our efforts on thislevel is that it takes time and requires much hardcomputat iona l  work  to get such an anarch is t icsystem to really work, and this surface level isreasonably simple to handle.II AN OUTLINE OF AN ANALYZER BASED ONTHE HEURISTIC PRINCIPLEF igure 1 be low shows the general  out l ine ofthe system.
Each of the var ious boxes (or sub-boxes) represents one specific process, usually acomplete computer program in itself, or, in somecases, independent processes within a program.
Thebig "container", label led "The Pool", containsboth the l inguist ic  mater ia l  as wel l  as thecurrent  analys is  of it.
Each program or processlooks into the Pool for things "it" can recognize,and when the process finds anything it is trainedto recognize,  it adds its observat ion  to the ma-terial in the Pool.
This added material may (hope-fully) help other  processes in recogniz ing whatthey are trained to recognize,  wh ich  in its turnmay again help the first process to recognize moreof "its" units.
And so on.The system is now under deve lopment  andduring this build-up phase each process is, as wassaid above, essent ia l ly  a complete,  s tand-a lonemodule, and the Pool exists simply as successivelyupdated text fi les on a disc storage.
At themoment some programs presuppose that other prog-rams have a l ready been run, but this state ofaf fa i rs  wi l l  be val id Just dur ing this bu i ld~upphase.
At the end of the bui ld-up phase eachprogram shal l  be able to run complete ly  inde-pendent of any other program in the system and inarb i t rary  order  re lat ive to the others (but, ofcourse, usually perform better if more informationis available in the Pool).67In the ~econd phase superord inated  contro lp rograms are to be implemented .
These programsw i l l  funct ion  as "traff ic  rules" and via thesesystems one shall be able to test various strate-gies, i.e.
to test wh ich  re lat ive order betweenthe different subsystems that yields optimal re-suit  in some kind of "per formance metric", someeva luat ion  procedure that takes both speed andquality into account.The programs/processes shown in Figure i allrepresent  rather  s t ra ight fo rward  F in i te  StatePattern Matching (FS/PM) procedures.
It is rathert r iv ia l  to show mathemat ica l ly  that a set ofi n teract ing  FS/PM procedures of the type used inour sys tem together  wi l l  y ie ld a system thatformally has the power of a CF-parser; in practiceit w i l l  y ie ld a system that in some sense isstronger,  at least f rom the point  of v iew ofconvenience.
Congruence and similar phenomena willbe reduced to s imple  local observat ions.
Trans-fo rmat iona l  var iants  of sentences wi l l  be re-cognized d i rect ly  - there wi l l  be no need forperforming some kind of backward transformationaloperat ions.
(In this respect a system llke thisw i l l  resemble  Gazdar's g rammar  concept; Gazdar1980.
)The contro l  s t ructures  later to be super im-posed on the interacting FS/PM systems will alsobe of a F in i te State type.
A sys tem of the typethen obta ined - a sys tem of independent  F in i teState Automatons  contro l led  by another  F in i teState Automaton - will in principle have rathercomplex  mathemat ica l  propert ies.
It is, e.g.,rather easy to see that such a system has strongercapac i ty  than a Type 2 device, but it w i l l  nothave the power of a full Type I system.Now a few comments to Figure iThe "balloons" in the figure represent inde-pendent programs (later to be developed into inde-pendent  processes  inside one "big" program).
Thef igure  d i sp lays  those  programs that  so far( January 1983) have been imp lemented  and tested(to some extent).
Other programs wil l  successivelybe entered into the system.The big ba l loon  label led "The C losed Cat"represents a program that recognizes closed wordc lasses  such as prepos i t ions ,  con junct ions ,  p ro -nouns,  aux i l i a r ies ,  and so on.
The C losed Catrecognizes  full word forms directly.
The SMURFba l loon  represents  the morpho log ica l  component(SMURF = "Swedish Murphology").
SMURF i tsel f  isorganized internally as a complex system of inde-pendent ly  operat ing "demons" - SMURFs  - eachknowing "its' little corner of Swedish word forma-tion.
(The name of the program is an a l lus ion tothe popu lar  comic  s t r ip  leprechauns  "lesScht roumpfs" ,  wh ich  in Swed ish  are  ca l led"smurfar".)
Thus there is one little smurf recog-n i z ing  der ivat \ [ona l  morphemes ,  one recogn iz ingflectional endings, and so on.
One special smurf,Phonotax, has an important controlling function -every other smur f  must  a lways  consult  Phonotaxbefore identifying one of "its" (potential) forma-tires; the word minus this formative must still bepronounceable, otherwise it cannot be a formative.SMURF works  ent i re ly  w i thout  s tem lexicon; itadheres  complete ly  to the "phi losophy" of us ingsurface signals as far as possible.NOMFRAS, VERBAL, IFIGEN, CLAUS and PREPPS areother "demons" that recognize different phrases orword  groups w i th in  sentences,  viz.
noun phrases,verba l  complexes,  in f in i t iva l  construct ions ,c lauses and prepos i t iona l  phrases, respectively.N-lex, V - lex  and A- lex  represent  var ious (sub)-lexicons; so far we have tried to do without themas far as possible.
One should  observe that s temlex icons are no prerequ is i tes  for the sys tem towork, adding them only enhances its performance.The format of the material inside the Pool isthe or ig ina l  text, plus appropr ia te  " label ledbrackets"  enc los ing  words,  word  groups, phrasesand so on.
In this way, the form of representationis cons istent  throughout,  no mat ter  how manyd i f fe rent  types of ana lyses  have been appl ied toit.
Thus, var ious people  can join our group andwrite their own "demons" in whatever language theyprefer, as long as they can take sentences in textformat,  be reasonably  to lerant  to what types of'~rackets" they find in there, do their analysis,add their own brackets (in the specified format),and put the result back into the Pool.68Of the var ious programs SMURF, NOMFRAS andIFIGEN are extensively tested (and, of course, TheClosed Cat, wh ich  is a s imple  lexical lookupsystem), and various examples of analyses of theseprograms will be demonstrated in the next section.We hope to arr ive at a crucial  stat ion in thisproject  dur ing 1983, when CLAUS has been morethoroughly  tested.
If CLAUS per forms the way wehope (and pre l iminary  tests indicate that itwill), we will  have means to identify very quicklythe c lausal  s t ructures of the sentences in anarb i t rary  running text, thus having a f i rm basefor entering higher h ierarch ies  in the syntact icdomains.The programs are written in the Beta languagedeveloped by the present author; c.f.
Brodda-Karlsson, 1980, and Brodda, 1983, forthcoming.
Ofthe actual  programs in the system, SMURF wasdeveloped and extens ive ly  tested by B.B.
dur ing1977-79 (Brodda, 1979), whereas  the others are(being) developed by B.B.
and/or Gunnel KEllgren,Stockholm (mostly "and").III EXPLODING SOME OF THE BALLOONSWhen a "fresh" text is entered into The Poolit f irst passes through a pre l iminary  one-pass-program, INIT, (not shown in Fig.
i) that "normal-izes" the text.
The or ig inal  text may be of anytype as long as it Is regular ly  typed Swedish.INIT t ransforms the text so that each graphicsentence will  make up exactly one physical record.
(Except in poetry, phys ica l  records, i.e.
lines,usual ly  are of marg ina l  l inguist ic  interest.
)Paragraph ends wi l l  be represented by empty  re-cords.
Periods used to indicate abbreviations areJust taken away and the abbrev ia t ion  itself  iscontracted to one graphic word, if necessary; thus"t.ex."
("e.g.")
is t rans formed into "rex", and soon.
Otherwise, periods, commas, question marks andother typographic  characters  are provided wi thpreceding blanks.
Through this each word isguaranteed to be surrounded by blanks, and de-l imi ters  llke commas,  per iods and so on areguaranteed to signal their "normal" textual func-tions.
Each record is also ended by a sentencedelimiter (preceded by a blank).
Some manual post-ed i t ing is somet imes  needed in order to get thetext normal i zed  accord ing to the above.
In theIN IT-phase no l inguist ic  analysis  whatsoever  isin t roduced (other than into what appears to beorthographic sentences).INIT also changes all letters in the originaltext to their cor respond ing  upper case variants.
(Or ig inal ly  capita l  letters are opt iona l ly  pro-vided wi th  a pref ixed "=".)
All subsequent ana-lysis p rograms add their analyses In the form oflower  case letters or letter combinat ions.
Thusupper case letters or words wi l l  belong to theobject language, and lower case letters or lettercombinat ions  w i l l  s ignal  meta-language informa-tion.
In this way, str ict ly  text (ASCII) formatcan be kept for the text as wel l  as for the va-rious stages of its analysis; the "philosophy" touse text Input and text output for all programsinvolved represents the computational solution tothe prob lem of how to make it poss ib le  for eachprocess to work independently of all other in thesystem.The C losed Cat (CC) has the important  role tomark words belonging to some well defined closedcategor ies  of words.
This p rogram makes no in-ternal analysis of the words, and only takes fullwords into account.
CC makes use of simple rewriterules of the type '~  => eP~e / (blank)__(blank)",where  the inserted e's represent  the "analysis"("e" s tands  for "prepos i t ion" ;  P~ = "on").
Asample  output f rom The Closed Cat is shown ini l lus t ra t ion  2, where  the var ious meta -symbolsa lso  are  exp la ined .The s imple  example  above also shows theformat of inserted meta-lnformatlon.
Each Identi-f ied const i tuent  is "tagged" w i th  sur round inglower case letters, which then can be conceived ofas labe l led  brackets .
Th is  fo rmat  is usedthroughout the system, also for complex constit-uents.
Thus the nominal phrase 'DEN LILLA FLICKAN"( " the  l i t t le  g i r l " )  w i l l  be tagged as"'nDEN+LILLA+FLICKANn" by NOMFRAS (cf.
below; thepluses are inserted to make the const i tuent  onecont inuous string).
We have reserved the lettersn, v and s for the major  categor ies  nouns or nounphrases, verbs or verbal  groups, and sentences,respectively, whereas other more or less transpar-ent letters are used for other categories.
(A listof used category symbols  is presented in theAppendix: Printout Illustrations.
)The program SWEMRF (or sMuRF, as it is ca l ledhere) has been extens ive ly  descr ibed e lsewhere(Brodda, 1979).
It makes a rather intr icatemorpho log ica l  analys is  word-by-word  In runningtext (i.e.
SMURF analyzes each word  in itself,disregarding the context it appears in).
SMURF canbe run in two modes, in "segmentat ion"  mode and"analysis" mode.
In its segmentat ion  mode SMURFsimply strips off the possible affixes from eachword; it makesno  use of any stem lexicon.
(Theaf f ixes it recognizes are common pref ixes,  suf-f ixes - i.e.
der lvat lona l  morphemes - and flex-lonal endings.)
In analysis mode it also tries tomake an opt imal  guess of the word class of.theword under inspection, based on what (combinationsof) word formation elements it finds in the word.SMURF in itself is organized entirely according tothe heur is t ic  pr inc ip les  as they are conceivedhere, i.e.
as a set of independent ly  operat ingprocesses that interactively work on each othersoutput.
The SMURF system has been the test benchfor test ing out the methods now being usedthroughout the entire Heuristic Parsing Project.In its segmentat ion  mode SMURF funct ionsformally as a set of interactive transformations,where the st ructura l  changes happen to be ex-tremely simple, viz.
simple segmentation rules ofthe type 'T=>P-", "Sffi> -S" and "Effi>-E '' for anarbitrary Prefix, Suffix and Ending, respectively,but where  the "Job" essent ia l ly  cons ists  ofes tab l i sh ing  the cor respond ing  structura l  de-scriptions.
These are shown in III.
I, below,together with sample analyses.
It should be notedthat phonotact lc  constra ints  play a central role69in the SMURF system; i n  fact, one of the mainob ject ives  in des ign ing  the SMURF system was tofind out how much information actually was carriedby the phonntact lc  component  in Swedish.
(Itturned out to be quite much; cf.
Brodda 1979.
Thisprobab ly  holds for other Germanic  languages aswell, which all have a rather elaborated phono-taxis.
)NOMFRAS is the next program to be commentedon.
The present vers ion  recognizes  s t ructures  ofthe typedet/quant + (adJ)~ + noun;where the "det/quant" categories (i.e.
determinersor quant l f lers)  are def ined exp l i c i t l y  throughenumeration - they are supposed to belong to theclass of "surface markers" and are as such identi-f ied by The C losed Cat.
Ad ject ives  and nouns onthe other hand are identified solely on the groundof their  "cadences", i.e.
what  kind of ( formal ly)end lng- l l ke  str ings they happen to end with.
Thenumber  of ad ject ives  that are accepted (n in theformula above) varies depending on what (probable)type of construction is under inspection.
In inde-finite noun phrases the substantial content of theexpected endings is, to say the least, meager, asboth nouns and adjectives in many situations onlyhave O-endings.
In definite noun phrases the nounmostly - but not always - has a more substantialand recogn izab le  end ing and all in terven ing  ad-Jectives have either the cadence -A or a cadencef rom a smal l  but character i s t i c  set.
In a (sup-posed) def in i te  noun phrase all words ending inany of the ment ioned  cadences are assumed to beadject ives,  but in (supposed) indef in i te  nounphrases not more  than one adject ive is assumedunless other  types of morpho log ica l  support  arepresent.The F in i te  State Scheme behind NOMFRAS ispresented in Ill. 2, together with sample outputs;in this case the text has been preprocessed by TheClosed Cat, and it appears that these two programsin cooperation are able to recognize noun phrasesof the discussed type correctly to well over 95%in running text (at a speed of about 5 sentencesper second, CPU-t lme);  the errors were  sharedabout 50% each between over- and undergenerations.Preliminary experiments aiming at including alsoSMURF and FREPPS (Preposit ional Phrases) seem toindicate that about the same recall and precisionrate could be kept for arb i t rary  types of (non-sentent la l )  noun phrases (cf.
Iii.
6).
(The sys-tems are not yet t r immed to the extent that theycan be operatively run together.
)IF IGEN ( Inf init ive Generator)  is anotherra ther  s t ra ight fo rward  F in i te  State Pat ternMatcher (developed by Gunnel K~llgren).
It recog-n i zes  (groups  of) nnnf ln l te  verbs.
Somewhatsimplif ied it can be represented by the followingd iagram ( remember  the convent ions for upper andlower case):IFIGEN parsing diagram (simplified):Aux  n>Adv)oATT - --A# (C)CV-(A/I)T#Iwhere '~ux" and "Adv" are categories recognized byThe Closed Cat (tagged "g" and "a", respectively),and "nXn" are s t ructures  recognized by e i therNOMFRAS or, in the case of persona l  pronouns,  byCC (It should he worth mentioning that the classof aux i l i a r ies  in Swed ish  is more  open than thecorresponding word class in English; besides the"ordinary" VARA ("to be"), HA ("to have") and themodalsy, there is a fuzzy class of seml-auxil larlesllke BORJA ("begin") and others; IFIGEN makes useof about 20 of these in the present  version.)
Thesupine cadence -(A/I)'T is supposed to appear onlyonce in an in f in i t iva l  group.
A sample  output ofIFIGEN is given in Iii.
3.
Also for IFIGEN we havereached a recogn i t ion  level  around 95%, which,again, is rather  astonish ing,  cons ider ing  howlittle information actually is made use of in thesystem.The IFIGEN case illustrates very clearly oneof the centra l  points in our heur i s t i c  approach,namely the following: The information that a wordhas a specific cadence, in this case the cadence-A, is usua l ly  of very l l t t le s ign i f i cance  initself in Swedish.
Certainly it is a typical infi-n l t lva l  cadence (at least 90% of all in f in i t ivesin Swed ish  have it), but on the other hand, it iscer ta in ly  a very typica l  cadence for other typesof words as well: FLICKA (noun), HELA (adjective),DENNA/DETTA/DESSA (determiners or pronouns) and soon, and these other types are by no comparison thedominant  group having this spec i f ic  cadence inrunning text.
But, in connection with an "infini-tive warner" - an auxiliary, or the word ATT - thesituation changes dramatically.
This can be demon-strated by the following figures: In running textwords having the cadance -A represents infinitivesin about  30% of the cases.
ATT is an in f in i t ivemarker  (equivalent  to "to") in qui te exact ly  50%of its occurences  (the other  50% it is a subord i -nat ing conjunction).
The condit ional probabilitythat the conf igurat ion  ATT ..-A represents  anin f ln l tve is, however ,  greater  than 99%, pro-v ided that character i s t i c  cadences l ike -ARNA/ -ORNA and quant i f le rs /determiners  llke ALLA andDESSA are d i s regarded  (In our system they aremarked by SMURF and The Closed Cat, respectively,and thereby "saved" from being classified as infi-nitives.)
G iven this, there is a lmost  no over-generation in IFIGEN, but Swedish allows for splitin f in i t ives  to some extent.
Quite much mater ia lcan be put in between the in f in i t ive  warner  andthe infinitive, and this gives rise to some under-generation (presengly).
(Similar observat ions  re-gard ing cond i t iona l  probabi l i t ies  in conf igura-t ions of l inguist ic  units has been made by MatsEeg-Olofson, Lund, 1982).70IV REFERENCESBrodda, B.
"N~got om de svenska ordens fonotax ochmorfotax",  Papers  from the Ins t i tu te  OfLinguistics (PILUS) No.
38, University of Stock-holm, 1979.Brodda, B.
'~ttre kriterler f~r igenkEnnlng avsammans~ttningar" in Saari, M. and Tandefelt, M.(eds.)
F6rhandllngar r~rande svenskans beskriv-ning - Hanaholmen 1981, Meddelanden fr~n Insti-tutionen f~r Nordiska Spr~k, Helsingfors Univer-sitet, 1981Brodda, B.
"The BETA System, and some Applica-tions", Data Linguistics, Gothenburg, 1983(forthcoming).Brodda, B. and Karlsson, F. "An experiment withAutomatic Morphological Analysis of Finnish",Publications No.
7, Dept.
of Linguistics, Unl-versity of Helsinki, 1981.Gazdar, G. "Phrase Structure" i_~n Jacobson, P. andPullam G.
(eds.
), Nature of Syntactic Represen-tation, Reidel, 1982Lenat, D.P.
"The Nature of Heuristics", Artif i-cial Intelligence, Vol 19(2), 1982.Eeg-Olofsson, M. '~n spr~kstatlstlsk modell f~rordklassm~rknlng i l~pande text" in K~llgren, G.(ed.)
TAGGNING, Fgredrag fr~n 3:e svenska kollo-kviet i spr~kllg databehandling i maJ 1982,FILUS 47, Stockholm 1982.Polya, G. "How to Solve it", Princeton UniversityPress, 1945.
Also Doubleday Anchor Press, NewYork, N.Y. (several editions)?APPENDIX:  Some computer  i l l us t ra t ionsThe following three pages illustrate some of the parsing diagrams used inthe system: Iii.
I, SMURF, and Iii.
2, NOMFRAS, together with sample analyses.IFIGEN is represented by sample analyses (III.
3; the diagram is given in thetext)?
The samples are all taken from running text analysis (from a novel byIvar Lo-Johansson), and "pruned" only in the way that trivial, recurrent examplesare omitted.
Some typical erroneous analyses are also shown (prefixed by **).In III.
I SMURF is run in segmentation mode only, and the existing tags areinserted by the Closed Cat.
"A and "E in word final position indicates thecorresponding cadences (fullfilling the pattern ?..V~M'A/E '', where M denotes aset of admissible medial clusters)?The tags inserted by CC are: aft(sentence) adverbials, b=particles, dfdeterminers,efprepositions, g=auxiliaries, h=(forms of) HA(VA), iffiinfinitives, j=adjectives,n=nouns, Kfconjunctions, q=quantifiers, r=pronouns, ufsupine verb form, v=verbal(group)?
(For space reasons, III.
3 is given first, then I and II.)Iii.
3: PATTERN: aux/ATT^(pron)'(adv)A(adv)'inf^inf A.
.. :.
.
FLOCKNINGEN eEFTER.
.
I kATTk+iHA i+uG~TTu i.. rDETr vVARv ORIML IGT ikATTk+iF INNAIr JAGr gSKAg aBARAa IHJALPAi- rDETr gKANg IL IGGAIgSKAg rVlr iV~GAi- rVlr gKANg alNTEa iG~i.
.
.ORNA vHOLLv SIG FARDIGA ikATTk+iKASTA irDEr gV~GADEg aANTL IGENa iLYFTAigSKAg rNlr aNODVANDIGTVISa  iGORAi.
.rVlr hHADEh aANNUa a lNTEa uHUNNITu iF~i.
.BECKMORKRET eMEDe ikATTk+IFORSOKAi+iF~IeMEDe VATGAS eFORe ikATTk+iKUNNAi+IH~LLA iSKOGEN, LANDEN gTYCKTESg iST~irDENr hHADEh MISSLYCKATS ele ikATTk+iNAi*** qENq kS gV~GADEg IKV lNNORNA+STANNAiFRAMATBOJD HELA DAGEN..qETTq KADSTRECK ele ..eTILLe ikATTk+iSE i  ..qENq KARL INUTI?VIPPEN?HEM eMEDe SKAMMEN ...eOMe NARSOMHELST.ePAe rDETr.N~T eMEDe rDENr, kS~keUPPe POTATISEN.BALLONGEN FYLLD.SEJ OPPE.STILLA eUNDERe OSS.SITT M~L.71IIi.
i: SMURF - PARSING DIAGRAM FOR SWEDISH MORPHOLOGYPATTERNS "Structura l  Descr ipt ions") :I)  E_NOINGS (E):X " 1/VS.
Me "E#;StructuralchangesE :> =E2) PREFIXES (P): I' I #p> - p - X " V " F (s) -- V " X ; P => (-)P>3) SUFFIXES (S): l (s) I " V " x 1 X " v " F "_S - E# # S :> /S(-)where I : (admissible) in i t ia l  c luster ,  F = f ina l  c lus ter ,  M = mor-h-e-m-eTnternal c lus ter ,  V = vowel ,  (s) the "g luon"S  (cf .
TID~INGSMA~),# = word boundary, (=,>, / , - )  = ear l ie r  accepted a f f i x  segmentations, and, f ina l lay ,  denotes o rd inary  concatenat ion .
( I t  is  the enhanced e le -ment in each pattern that  is tested for  i t s  segmentabi l i ty) .BAGG'E=vDROGv .
REP=ET SLINGR=ADE MELLAN STEN=AR , FOR>BITALLSTAMM AR , MELLAN ROD*A LINGONTUV=OR e le  GRON IN>FATT/N ING.qETTq STORT FORE>M~L hHADEh uRORTu eP~e SIG BORT 'A  eIeSLANT=EN ?
FORE>M~L=ET NARM=ADE SIG HOTFULL 'T  dDETd KNASTR==ADE eIe SKOG=EN .
- SPR INGBAGG'E  SLAPP=TE kOCHk vSPRANGv .
rDEr L~NG'A  K JOL=ARNAV IRV I=ADE eOVERe 0<PLOCK=ADE L INGONTUV=OR , BAGG'E  KV INNO=RNAhHADEh STRUMPEBAND FOR>FARDIG=ADE eAVe SOCKERTOPPSSNOR=EN ,KNUT=NA NEDAN>FOR KNAN'AaFORSTa bUPPEb eP~e qENq kS V~G=ADE KV INNO=RNA STANN'A  .rDEr vSTODv kOCHk STRACK=TE eP~e HALS=ARNA .
qENq FRANUT>DUNST/N ING eAVe SKRACK S IPPR=ADE bFRAMb .
rDEr vHOLLvBE>SVARJ /ANDE HAND=ERNA FRAM>FOR S IN 'A  SKOT=EN- dDETd vSERv STORT kOCHk eRUNTe bUTb , vSAv dDENd KORT~AeOMe FORE>MAL=ET dDETd vARy aVALa a lNTEa  qN~GOTq IN>UT>I  ?- dDETd gKANg L IGG'A  qENq KARL IN>UT>I  ?
dDETd vVETv  rMANraVALa  kVADk rHANr vGORv eMEDe OSS- r JAGr TYCK=TE dDETd ROR=DE eP~e SEJ gSKAg rVlr  iV~GAIV IPP=EN ?
- JA ?
ESKAg rVlr  iV~GAI  V IPP~EN ?BAGGE vSMOGv SIG eP~e GLAPP 'A  KNAN UT>F~R BRANT=EN ?
kNARkrDEr NARM=ADE SIG rDEr FLAT=ADE POTAT ISKORG=ARNA eMEDe L INGONkSOMk vSTODv eP~e LUT eVIDe VARSIN  TUVA , vVARv rDEr aREDANaUT>OM SIG eAVe SKRACK .
oDERASo SANS vVARv BORT 'A  .- PASS eP~e .
rVlr  KANHAND'A  a lNTEa  vTORSv NARM=ARE ?
vSAvdDENd MAGR'A  RUSTRUN- rVlr  EKANg a lNTEa  G~ HEM eMEDe SKAMM=EN aHELLERa ?
rV l rgM~STEE a JUa iHAi BARKORG=ARNA eMEDe .- JAV ISST  , BARKORG=ARNAkMENk kNARk rDEr uKOMMITu  bNERb eT ILLe  STALL=ET I<GENuVARTu rDEr NYF IK=NA rDEr vDROGSv eT ILLe  FORE>M~L=ET ele72Iii.
2: NOMFRAS - FS-DIAGRAM FOR SWEDISH NOUN PHRASE PARSINGquant + dec + "OWN" + adJ + nounI OENNAL__ DETTA~/j MI-T ALLA "~~ B~DA DEN-ERI-NI-~ IER) "NAI-EN\]- PYTT  , vSAv  nDEN+L~NGAnkVADk vVARv NU nDET+DARn kATTk  VARA RADD eFORe ?nDET+OMF~NGSRIKA+,+SIDENLATTA+TYGETnnDEn G JORDE nEN+STOR+PACKEn eAVe dDETd .eMEDe SIG S JALVA eOMe kATTk  nDET+HELAn a lNTEa  uVARITu  qETTq .... nDET+NELAn a lNTEa  uVARITu  nETT+DUGGn FARL IGT  .nDET+FORMENTA+KLADSTRECKETn vVARv kD~k SNOTT FLE.
... GRON eMEDe HANGBJORKAR kSOMk nALLAn FYLLDE FUNKTIONER ... MODERN , nDEN+L~NGA+EGNAHEMSHUSTRUNn kSOMk uVARITu  ele SKO.
.STORA BOKSTAVER nETT+SVENSKT+FIRMANAMNneP~e nDEN+ANDRA+,+FR~NVANDAn , vSTODv ORDEN ..nDETn vVARv nEN+LUFTENS+SPILLFRUKTn kSOMk hHADEh uRAMLAT.
.kOCHk nDEN+ANDRA+EGNAHEMSHUSTRUNS+OGONn VATTNADES eAVe OMSOMnETT+STORT+MOSSIGT+BERGn HOJDE SIG eMOTe SKYN.
.. ?
S IG eMOTe SKYN eMEDe nEN+DIS IG+M~NEn kSOMk qENq RUND LYKTA ..eV IDe  nDET+STALLEn kDARk LANDNINGSL INAN ..SAGA HONOM kATTk  nALLA+DESSA+FOREMALn aAND~a a lNTEa  FORMED.
.. .ARNA kSOMk nEN+AVIGT+SKRUBBANDE+HANDn .kSOMk nEN+OFORMLIG+MASSAn VALTRADE SIG BALLONG.
.- nEN?RIKT IG+BALLONGn gSKAg VARA FYLLD eMEDe.
.?
*nDETn a lNTEa  vL~Gv nN~GON+KROPP+GOMDn INUNDER .?
** TV~ kSOMk BARGADE ~DEN+TILLSAMMANSn73
