A RULE-BASED APPROACH TO EVALUATING IMPORTANCE IN DESCRIPTIVE TEXTSDanilo Fum(*), Giovanni Gulda(?
), Carlo Tasso(~)Isllmm di Matemadca, Informatica ?
SlstemisticaUniversi~ di UdlneUdlne, ItalyABSTRACTImportance evaluation is one of the mostchallenging problems in the field of textprocessing.
In the paper we focus on the notion ofimportance from a computational standpoint, and wepropose a procedural, rule-based approach toimportance evaluation.
Th is  novel approach issupported by a prototype experimental system,called importance evaluator, that can deal withdescriptive texts taken from computer scienceliterature on operating systems.
The evaluatorrelies on a set of importance rules that are usedto assign importance values to the different partsof a text and to resolve or explain conflictingevaluations.
The system utilizes world knowledgeon the subject domain contained in an encyclopediaand takes into account a goal assigned by the userfor specifying the pragmatic aspects of theunderstanding activity.
The paper describes therole of the evaluator in the frame of a largersystem for text summarization (SUSY); i ti l lustrates its overall mode of operation, anddiscusses some meaningful examples.I .
INTRODUCTIONText understanding has received increasingattention in recent years.
A major problem in thisarea is that of importance valuation: not all thecomponents of a sufficiently large and structuredpiece of text are equally important for the reader,and humans are able to evaluate the relativeimportance of the parts of the texts they read.This issue has been faced so far only in anindirect way in the literature on discoursestructure (Kintsch and van Dijk, 1978; van Dijkand Kintsch, 1983), summarization (Lehrert, 1982and 1984; Wilensky, 1982; Hahn and Reimer, 1984),and inference (Schank, 1979).Moreover, several studies in the field ofsummarization (e.g.
: Schank, 1979 and 1982;Lehnert, 1982 and 1984; Wilensky, 1982) havemostly been concerned with narrative texts(stories), and i t  is not at all obvious that theapproaches which proved successful in this area(') also with: Laboratorio di Psicologia E.E.,Universita' di Trieste, Trieste, Italy(t) also with: M i lan  Polytechnic Art i f ic ia lIntelligence Project, Milano, Italy(~) also with: CISM International Center forMechanical Sciences, Udine, Italycould be applied to descriptive texts as well.Expository prose has its own specific features(Graesser, 1981), and i t  seems to require differentunderstanding processes, different summarizationski l ls ,  and different cognitive models (Lehnert,1984).
Work on the problem of understanding andsummarizing expository prose is s t i l l  at the verybeginning (Hahn and Reimer, 1984).In this paper we focus on the notion ofimportance from a computational standpoint, and wepropose a rule-based approach to importanceevaluation.
Th is  research is part of a largerproject aimed at developi ng a system forunderstanding and summarizing descriptive texts(SUSY, a SUmmarizing SYstem), which is in progressa~-~Te University" ofSUSY proposes an approach to descriptive textunderstanding and summarization (Fum, Guida, andTasso, 1982, 1983, and 1984) in which the processof representing the meaning of a natural languagetext is spl it  into three main tasks, namely:sentence understanding, structure capturing, andi mportance val uati on.The sentence understandin 9 phase works on thesingle s ~  that constitute a given naturallanguage text and maps them into a formal internalrepresentation, called basic linear representation(BLR).
The BLR is essentially a propositionallanguage appropriately extended and completed todeal with the most relevant features of textrepresentation, and ful ly worked out in a waysuitable for computer implementation (Fum, Guida,and Tasso, 1984).
The BLR representation of a texti s consti tuted by a sequence of I abel edpropositions, each of them constituted by apredicate with instantiated arguments orrepresenting an ISA relation between concepts.This phase includes the understanding of thel i tera l  meaning of each sentence in the text, theappropriate representation of time relations, andthe treatment of quantification and reference.The structure capturing phase works on the BLRand produces an augmented version of i t ,  calledextended linear representation (ELR).
Th is  phaseon two maln points:- inferring and expliciting themacro-structure of the text (van Dijk,1977; Kintsch and van Dijk, 1978; vanDijk and Kintsch, 1983), that accounts forthe conceptual connection (coherence)among sentences (Hobbs, 1982 and 1983);244recognizing and expliciting the rhetoricstructure of the text, which explains howthe flow of ideas and the arguments of thewriter are organized and implemented inthe text.The importance valuation phase operates onthe ELR and attaches appropriate markers to itscomponents in order to produce a newrepresentation, called hierarchical propositionalnetwork (HPN).
The HPN is a tree-like structurewhose n~s ,  corresponding to concepts andpropositions of the ELR, are assigned differentimportance values (integers) according to theirrelative importance in the text.Once the HPN representation of a text has beenproduced, i t  is easy to prune the less relevantparts in order to obtain the representation of anappropriate summary to be eventually translatedinto natural language.
These last phases ( i .e.
,pruning and generation) are, for the moment,outside the scope of this research.The purpose of this paper is to investigate insome detail the phase of importance valuation, andto i l lustrate the results obtained in the designand experimentation of a prototype system that canproduce from the ELR of a given text a reasonableHPN.The paper is organized as follows: section twointroduces the topic of importance valuation anddiscusses some basic conceptual aspects, in sectionthree the overall organization of the system ispresented with particular attention to knowledgerepresentation, section four illustrates someexamples of importance valuation, and section fiveconcludes the paper.2.
EVALUATING IMPORTANCEThe topic of importance evaluation has beendealt with in recent years, although often only ina quite indirect way, by several authors and inmany different contexts.
A part of a text can beconsidered important in relation to other segmentsof the same text according to several criteria:i t  embodies knowledge necessary tounderstand other parts of the text (vanDijk, 1977; Kintsch and van Dijk, 1978);- i t  is relevant to the topic of discourse(Lehnert 1982 and 1984);i t  is useful to clarify the relations thatmake discourse coherent (Hobbs, 1982);i t  relates to the topic-focus articulation(Haji~ova' and Sgall, 1984);i t  refers to objects or relations in thesubject domain that are judged to beimportant a-priori (Schank, 1979);- i t  is unusual, new, or abnormal in thesubject domain (Schank, 1979);i t  generates surprise (van Dijk andKintsch, 1983);i t  is relevant to some specific reader'sgoal or need (Fum, Guida, and Tasso,1982).In practice, i f  we test these criteria onsample texts, they result sometimes complementary,sometimes partial ly overlapping, sometimes evenconflicting.
Moreover, different readers may judgedifferently the importance of the same text; onsome parts a general consensus may be achieved, butthe evaluation of other parts may be definitelysubjective.In fact, "important" means "specially relevant tosome goal", and, whenever the goal with which atext is read changes, the parts of text which areto be considered important vary accordingly.
Eveni f  the goal of reading is only seldom consideredexplicit ly by humans, s t i l l  some goal is alwaysimplicitly assumed.
Different readers (or the samereader in different moments) may have differentgoals, and conflicting judgments of importance maybe due to the consideration of different goals,rather than to the application of differentevaluation procedures.The above investigation shows that importanceis a really multifaceted concept which escapes asimple, explicit, algorithmic definition.
Aprocedural, knowledge-based approach comprising aset of rules that can assign relative importancevalues to the different parts of a text and canresolve or explain conflicting evaluations seemsmore appropriate.
Such an approach allows takinginto account in a flexible and natural way thevariety of knowledge sources and processingactivities that are involved in importanceevaluation.
Moreover, i t  is expected to be wellfounded from a cognitive point of view (van Dijkand Kintsch, 1983; Anderson, 1976), as i t  allowsclose and transparent modeling of several processesthat occur in human mind.3.
A COMPUTATIONAL APPROACHMost of the ideas outlined in the previoussection have been implemented in the design of asubsystem of SUSY, called the importance valuator,that takes in input the ELR representation of anatural language text and the representation of areader's goal and produces in output thecorresponding HPN.
The evaluator is implemented bya rule-based system (Davis and King, 1976) with aforward chaining control regime.
Knowledgeavailable to the evaluator comprises two parts: arule base and an encyclopedia.The rule base embodies expert  knowledgenecessary ~r  importance evaluation.
I t  isconstituted by production rules, called importancerules, having the usual IF-THEN form.
Rules can be245classified according to their competence, i.e.
tothe different types of knowledge utilized forevaluating importance.
From this point of view,three classes of rules are considered:structural rules, which express the factthat some parts of the text can be judgedimportant just by looking at theirstructure and organization, discardingthei r meaning;semantic ~ules, which can evaluateimportance by specifically taking intoaccount some specific structural featuresof the text that convey a definitemeaning;encyclopedic rules, which can evaluateimportance by comparing the meaning of thetext with domain specific knowledgecontained in the encyclopedia.The IF-part of the rules contains conditions thatare evaluated with respect to the current HPN( in i t ia l l y  the ELR), and the THEN-part specifieseither an importance valuation or an action to beperformed to further the analysis (e.g., astrategic choice, a criterion to solve conflictingevaluations, etc.
).The evaluation of importance contained in theTHEN-part of a rule takes usually the form of anordering relation (e.g., less, equal, etc.)
amongimportance values of concepts or propositions ofthe ELR, or i t  specifies ranges of importancevalues (e.g., high, low, etc.).
Thus, rules onlyassert relative importance of different parts ofthe text: a constraint propagation algorithm wil leventually transform these relative evaluationsinto absolute importance values according to agiven scale.The encyclopedia is the second knowledgesource employed by the  evaluator and i t  containsdomain specific knowledge.
Encyclopedic knowledgeis represented through a net of frames.
Framesembody, in addition to a header, two kinds ofslots:knowledge slots, that contain domainspecific knowledge, represented in a formhomogeneous with the propositionallanguage of the ELR;reference slots, containing pointers toother frames that deal with related topicsin the subject domain.This organization allows easy implementation of aproperty inheritance mechanism.We now i l lustrate the notion of goal which isof crucial importance for understanding the overallmode of operation of the evaluator.
The goal is achunk of variable knowledge, assigned by the usertaking into account the pragmatic aspects of theunderstanding activity, that defines themotivations and objectives that are behind thereading process.
The role of the goal is twofold:exerting control on the activation ofimportance rules that operate on the ELR;selective focusing, i .e.
enabling theevaluator to choose from the encyclopediathe pieces of knowledge which are expectedto be relevant to the current importanceevaluation.The use of the goal in selective focusing comprisestwo activities:validating matching between the currentELR and the knowledge contained in a frameheader or knowledge slot (direct frameactivation), oractivating a new frame pointed at in areference slot of a currently active frame(i ndi rect frame acti vati on ).Therefore, the encyclopedia does not contain anya-priory judgment about importance.
Fullresponsibility of this activity is left  to theevaluator, which can interpret the content of theencyclopedia frames according to the current goaland can use the extracted knowledge to support therule-based evaluation process.4.
SAMPLE OPERATION OF THE EVALUATORThe current prototype version of the evaluatoroperates on simple texts taken from scientific andtechnical computer science literature on operatingsystems.
It  includes about 40 importance rules anda small encyclopedia of about 30 frames.
The goalhas been assigned a very simple structure: i t  is alogical con~)ination of key-terms, chosen in apredefinite set, that represent possible points ofview a reader can take in analyzing a text.In this section we will i l lustrate some of themost basic mechanisms of importance evaluationthrough a few examples.Let us consider the following sample text:"U-DOS is an operating system developed bySoftproducts Ltd. in 1982.
I t  has a modularorganization and is suitable for real-timeapplications.
U-DOS includes powerful tools forinteractive processing and supports a sophisticatedwindow management that makes i t  user friendly, i .e.easily usable by novices or untrained end-users,Easy operation is, in fact, the main reason of i twidespread diffusion in the data processing market,especially among CAD/CAM users who appreciate itsgraphic u t i l i t i es .
"The ELR of this text results (fordescription of the formalism refer to:and Tasso, 1984):a com~oleteFum, Guida,010 *OP-SYSTEM (U-DOS)020 DEVELOP (SOFTPRODUCTS-LTD, U-DOS, T1)246030 *PAST (T1)040 *YEAR-1982 (T1)045 TIME-SPEC (40,20)050 HAVE (U-DOS, V1, P)060 *ORGANIZATION (VI)070 MODULAR (V1, P)075 QUAL (70, 60)080 SUIT (U-DOS, VV2, P)090 *APPLICATION (VV2)100 REAL-TIME (VV2, P)105 QUAL (100, 90)110 INCLUDE (U-DOS, VV3, P)120 *TOOL (VV3)130 POWERFUL (VV3, P)135 QUAL (130, 120)140 APPROPRIATE-TO (VV3, V4, P)145 QUAL (140, 120)150 *PROCESSING (V4)160 INTERACTIVE (V4, P)165 QUAL (160, 150)170 SUPPORT (U-DOS, V5, P)180 *WINDOW-MANAGEMENT (V5)190 SOPHISTICATED (VS, P)195 QUAL (190, 180)200 MAKE (VS, U-DOS, 210, P)205 ENABLE (190, 210)210 USER-FRIENDLY (U-DOS, P)215 CLARIFICATION (220, 210)220 OR (230, 260, P)230 EASILY (240, P)240 USE (VV6, U-DOS, P)245 MOD (230, 240)250 *NOVICE (VV6)260 EASILY (270, P)270 USE (VV7, U-DOS, P)275 MOD (260, 270)280 *END-USER (VV7)290 UNTRAINED (VV7, P)295 QUAL (290, 280)300 REASON-FOR (310, 340)305 RESULT (310, 340)310 EASILY (320, P)320 OPERATE (NIL, U-DOS)325 MOD (310, 320)330 HAVE (U-DOS, V8, P)340 *DIFFUSION (V8)350 LARGE (VS, P)355 QUAL (350, 340)360 IN (330, vg, P)370 *DATA-PROCESSING-MARKET (V9)380 AMONG (330, VVIO, P)385 SPECIFICATION (360, 380)390 *CAD/CAM-USER (VVlO)400 APPRECIATE (VVlO, VV11, P)410 *UTILITY (VV11)420 GRAPHIC (VV11, P)425 QUAL (420, 410)430 HAVE (U-DOS, VV11, P)The set of key-terms that can be used tospecify the goal includes, among others: KNOW,BUY, and USE.
We assume hereinafter the goal KNOW,i .e.
,  we are particularly interested in knowing themain technical features of the U-DOS operatingsystem.
With such a goal, some pieces of theencyclopedia turn out to be relevant to theevaluation of our sample text, while others arediscarded, as it  will be illustrated below.In order to analyze the text, the evaluatorgenerates from the ELR, as a preliminary step, anew structure, called the cohesion graph, thatexplicitly shows all the references amongpropositions of the ELR.
The cohesion graph is abipartite graph whose nodes are constituted byconcepts and propositions connected by three kindsof arcs:directed arcs  connecting pairs ofpropositions (say from P to Q), whichrepresent embedding of a proposition intoanother (Q in P);simple arcs, connecting a concept and aproposition, which indicate that theconcept appears as an argument in theproposition;double directed arcs, connecting twoconcepts via a propositional node (sayfrom A to B via P), which show that aconcept enters as the argument of aproposition stating an ISA relation (Pstates that A ISA B).A portion of the cohesion graph of our sample textis shown in Figure 1.Structural rules can exploit the informationprovided by the cohesion graph in order toselectively capturing the importance of thedifferent parts of the text.
An example of astructural rule is:Rule $4: Highly Referenced ConceptIF in the cohesion graph there is a concept Cwhich is at least K-referencedTHEN assign C an importance value w(C) = high.This rule guesses that a concept which ishighly referenced in a text is probably important.In our example (where the parameter K is set equalto 3), the concept U-DOS is considered important asi t  is highly referenced.Importance can be evaluated by chainingseveral rules.
As an example, after rule $4 hasbeen applied, the following rule can fire:Rule MT: ISA PropositionIF a proposition P represents an ISA relationANDthe argument of P is a concept C withimportance value w(C)THEN assign P an importance value w(P) = w(C).The rationale of this rule is that, i f  aconcept is important, any proposition that statesan ISA relation about that concept is importanttoo.
This allows, for example, consideringproposition 10 (which states that U-DOS is anoperating system) as important.Rule M7 allows, moreover, the application247J SOFTPRODUCTS - LTOIORGANIZATIONI IJ YEAR-1982 IAPPLICATION(FU-DOSOP-SYSTEM J~ PROCESSING IWINDOW-MANAGEMENT IFig.
I :  (Partial) Cohesion Graph of the Sample Textof the following rule:Rule E6: ISA Frame ActivationIF a proposition P represents an ISA relationANDP has importance value w(P) > lowANDthe predicate of P is the header of a frameF in the encyclopediaTHEN activate F.In our example, the fact that proposition 10is important (w(P) = high) and that i t  representsan ISA relation allows the OPERATING-SYSTEM frameto be activated (see Figure 2, where a portion ofthe encyclopedia relevant to the current example isshown).
Note that rule E6 does not directly statewhether a proposition or a concept has to beconsidered important or not, but i t  specifies whichframes are to be considered relevant in the currentcontext.Most evaluations are goal dependent and relyon a goal interpreter, able to evaluate a specificpiece of ELR or a frame slot of the encyclopedia inorder to determine its relevance to the currentgoal.
The goal interpreter performs in such a waya complex matching, which allows implementation ofselective focusing.
Consider, for example, thefollowing rule:RULE E19: Goal-Dependent Frame ActivationIF the current goal matches a reference slot?
R of an active frameTHEN activate the frame whose header is pointedat by R.Successive applications of this rule allowactivation, starting from the OPERATING-SYSTEMframe, of the SOFTWARE-SYSTEM frame and, then, ofthe COMPLEX-SYSTEM frame (see Figure 2).
At thispoint the following rule applies:248OP-SYSTEMisa : SOFTWARE-SYSTEMPRODUCThas parts : KERNELSCHEDULERMEMORY ALLOCATORincludes : OS/IRTOSXENIXbasic operating characteristics:OP-SYSTEM (X) BATCH (X)REAL-TIME (X)MULTI-USER (X)OP-SYSTEM (X) RUN-ON (X,Y)COMPUTER (Y) FOR (X,Y)/SOFTWARE-SYSTEMisa : COMPLEX-SYSTEMPROGRAMPROCEDUREhas parts : MODULEROUTINESUBSYSTEMlanguage :lO SOFTWARE-SYSTEM (X)20 LANGUAGE (Y)OF (lO,20)/COMPLEX-SYSTEMs t ruc ture  :COMPLEX-SYSTEM (X) MODULAR (X)EXTENSIBLE (X)HIERARCHICAL (X)Fig.
2: Some Frames of the EncyclopediaRule E25: Goal Dependent MatchingIF a proposition P matches a pattern containedin a knowledge slot K of an active frameANDthe current goal matches KTHEN assign P an importance value w(P) = high.In our example, since (i) the COMPLEX-SYSTEMframe is active and proposition 70 of the ELRmatches the pattern MODULAR (ORGANIZATION) of the"structure" slot of the frame, and ( i i )  the goalinterpreter evaluates that the knowledge slot"structure" is relevant to the goal KNOW, thenproposition 70 is considered important.As a last example, we i l lustrate a rule thatexploits knowledge concerning the macro-structureof the text:Rule M9: Macro Clarif icationIF i f  there exists a macro-propositionCLARIFICATION (P, Q)THEN assign P and Q importance values such thatw(P) < w(Q).Rule M9 implements the idea that a propositionwhich is used to clar i fy another proposition ( i .e .
,i t  paraphrases its content or explains the meaningof some of its terms) has to be considered lessimportant han the proposition i t  c lar i f ies .
Thisrule can be applied, for example, in ratingpropositions 210 and 220, the latter  resulting lessimportant han the former.5.
CONCLUSIONThe importance evaluator described in theprevious sections is written in Franz Lisp and i tis presently running in a prototype version on aSUN-2 workstation.
Much experimental work iscurrently ongoing on this prototype in order toassess its operation, enlarge its knowledge base,and test its performance with a suff ic iently largeset of sample texts.The major contribution of the work reported inthe paper can be found in the novel proposedapproach to importance evaluation that, accordingto the results so far achieved, proved to be viableand appropriate both from the cognitive and thecomputational points of view.249The research has disclosed several newdirections for future work.
Among these wemention:extending the importance rule base tocover the rhetoric and stylistic aspectsof the text;introducing meta-rules to deal with theproblems of rule activation scheduling,and of conflict resolution among rules;improving the goal matching techniques inorder to implement a flexible mechanismfor interpreting the content ofencyclopedia frames according to thecurrent goal;giving the evaluator the capability ofchanging the goal during the evaluationprocess, depending on the content of theprocessed text.REFERENCESI.2.3.4.5.6.7.Anderson J.R. (1976).
Language, Memory,and Thought, Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence~'-~au m.Davis R. and King J.
(1976).
AnOverview of Production Systems.
InE.W.Elcock and D.Michie (Eds.
), MachineIntelligence 8, New York, NY: Wiley,300-332.Fum D., Guida G., and Tasso C. (1982).Forward and Backward Reasoning inAutomatic Abstracting.
In J.
Horecky(Ed.
), COLING-82, Amsterdam, NL:North-Holland, 83-88.Fum D., Guida G., and Tasso C. (1983).Capturing Importance in Natural LanguageTexts: An HPN-Based Approach.
Proc.
2ndInt.
Colloquium on the Interdisciplinary~t-O~-y of the ~ma-'nt-ics of Natura~Lan .~:  Meaning and Lexicon, Kleve,Fum O., Guida G., and Tasso C. (1984).
APropositional Language for TextRepresentation.
In B.G.
Bara and G.Guida (Eds.
), Computational Models ofNatural Language Processing, ms~-m-s~-rda~,l~-~--~'ortIT~IToTT~'nd, 121-163,Graesser A.C. (1981).
ProseComprehension Beyond the Word.
New York,NY: Springer-Verlag.Haji~ova' E. and Sgall P. (1984).
FromTopic and Focus of a Sentence to Linkingin a Text.
In B.G.
Bara and G.
Guida(Eds.
), Computational Models of NaturalLanguage Processing, Amsterdam, NL:North-Holland, 151-163.8.
Hahn U. and Reimer U.
(1984).
ComputingText Constituency: An AlgorithmicApproach to the Generation of Text Graphs.In C.J.
van Rijsbergen (Ed.
), Researchand Development in Information Retrieval,\]~'a,~) rid ge, UK:-- Can~)ridge UniversityPress, 343-368.9.
Hobbs J.R. (1982) .
Towards anUnderstanding of Coherence in Discourse.In W.G.
L~hnert and M.H.
Ringle (Eds.
),Strategies for Natura l  LanguageProcessing, Hi-Tl-sdal e ~  LawrenceErl baum, ~23-244.10.
Kintsch W. and van Dijk T .A .
(1978).Toward a Model of Text Comprehension.Psychological Review 85, 363-394.11.
Lehnert W.G.
(1982).
Plot Units: ANarrative Summarization Strategy.
In W.G.Lehnert and M.H.
R ing le  (Eds.)
,St rategi es for Natura l  LanguageProcessing, Hi-'~Tsd ale ~  LawrenceErl baum, 375-414.12.
Lehnert W.G.
(1984) .
NarrativeComplexity Based on Summari zati onAlgorithms.
In B.G.
Bara and G.
Guida(Eds.
), Computational Models of NaturalLanguage Processing, Amsterdam,North-Hol I and, 247-259.13.
Schank R.C.
(1979).
Interestingness:Controlling Inferences.
Artif icialIntelligence 12, 273-297.14.
Schank R.C.
(1982).
Reminding and MemoryOrganization: An Introduction to MOPs.In W.G.
Lehnert and M.H.
Ringle (Eds.
),Strateg!es for Natura l  LanguageProcess I ng, HTITsd al e ~  LawrenceErl baum, 455-494.15. van Dijk T.A.
(1977).
Semantic MacroStructures and Knowledge Frames inDiscourse Comprehension.
In M.A.
Justand P .A .
Carpenter (Eds.
), CognitiveProcesses in Comprehension, Hillsdale, NJ:Lawrence Er-Tbaum, 3-32.16. van Dijk T.A.
and Kintsch W. (1983).Strategies of Discourse Comprehension.17.New York, NY: Academic Press.Wilensky R. (1982) Points: A Theory ofthe Structure of Stories in Memory.
InW.G.
Lehnert and M.H.
Ringle (Eds.
),Strategies for Natura l  LanguageProcessing, H~sda le~ LawrenceErlbaum, 345-374.250
