THE SIMULATION OF STRESS PATTERNS IN SYNTHETIC SPEECH ~ A T,VO-LEVEL PROBLEMTimothy J Gillott~par tment  of Artificial IntelligenceHope Park SquareUniversity of EdinburghEdinburgh EH9 2NHScotlandABSTRACTThis paper is part of an MSc.
report on aprogram called GENIE (Generator of InflectedEnglish), written in CProlog, that acts as a frontend to an existing speech synthesis program.
Itallows the user to type a sentence in Englishtext, and then processes it so that thesynthesiser will output it with natural-soundinginflection; that is, as well as transcribing textto a phonemic form that can be read by the system,it assigns this text an fO contour.
The assigningof this stress is described in this paper, and itis asserted that the problem can be solved withreference to two main levels, the sentential andthe syllabic.O.
~enePalThe paper is divided into three main sectionaFirstly, Section 1 deals with the problem ofstress, its various components and their relative~,portance.
It also discusses (br iefS)  the two-level nature of the problem.Part II examines the problems that the modelmust face in dealing with stress assignment, andfurther develops the contention that theseproblems must be dealt with at the sentential andthe syllabic levels.
It proposes a phonologicalsolution to the problem of syllabic stress, basedon the Dependency Phonology framework, andsuggests a modified function and content wordalgorithm to deal with sentential stress assign-ment.Part III deals with the actual algorithmsdeveloped to deal with the problems.
A fair~nount of familiarity with Prolog is ass~ned, butthe code itself is not examined too deeply.In addition, possible improvements arediscussed, briefly, at the end of the paper.
Asthis program is a prototype, there will be manysuch improvements, although there are no plans toproduce an enhanced model at the present date.It should also be borne in mind that as this paperis primarily a report on a piece of software thelinguistic bases behind some of the algorithmsare by no means dealt with as comprehensively asthey might be.1.
The Role of Stress in UtterancesThis i~ ~- nemeans  intended to be acomprehensive analysis of stress assignment inEnglish, rather it is a brief review of some of themost important acoustic factors which together goto make up the perceptual phenomenon of stress, andin particular those factors most relevant to thetext-to-speech program.Stress is the name given to the group ofacoustic phenomena that result in the perception ofsome words in utterances as being more importantthan others.
There is no one-to-onecorrespondence of the acoustic level with theperceptual one, but all the members of the abovegroup contribute to some extent, some with moreeffect than others.
The three most important,pitch, intensity and duration, will be brieflyreviewdd.1.1 PitchIntelligibility of English utterances is to alarge extent dependent on contrasting pitch.
Nolexical distinction is made on the basis of pizchas in a tone language such as ~andarin, but pitchdoes have the property of radically altering thesemantics of a sentence.
Ver-j often, pitch changeis the only way to disambiguate sentences that areotherwise syntacticaly and lexically identical.For example, consider the two examples below.They are both syntactically (and lexically)identical, but the differing intonation oatternscause the semantic interpretation of the" two todiffer considerably :The elephants charg'\[ng.Th& eleph'ants are " ' charglng.The first sentence conveys the informationthat a group of elephants happen to be perforlainga certain action, that of charging, whereas theimportant information contained in the secon~ isthat it is elephants that are doing the charging,as opposed to rhinos or white mice.
This is whatis meant by saying that the movement of pitch isclosely connected with semantic conzent.
"lNow at: British Telecom Research Laboratories,Martlesham Heath,-Ipswich, Suffolk IP5 7RE, UK232An important point arises here; this is thatalthough the meaning of the whole sentence ischanged by the different intonation pattern, theactual words themselves retain the same meaning inboth examples.
That is, there are ~o levels ofsemantic information contained within a sentence;morphological (word level) and sentential(utterance level).
This distinction is importantand runs through the whole problem of syntheticstress assignment, and will be considered in moredetail later in the paper.Although sentential stress often varies,morphological stress does so much less frequently.For instance, the stressed syllable is the firstone in the word "elephant".
To put it on thesecond syllable would destroy the semantic messageconveyed by the word "elephant".
Whenmorphological stress does differ within the sameword, it invariably accompanies a radical differ-ence in the semantics of a verb, and is usuallysyntactically defined; viz project (the noun) asopposed to project (the verb).It is obvious to say that pitch varies toindicate stress within both words and utterances.~uthow does it vat-j?
It would be tempting to saythat a stressed syllable is always signalled by arise in pitch, as in the examples above.
This isindeed true in a great number of cases, but by nomeans all, as pointed out by Bolinger (Bolinger1958).
For instance, consider the following phrase(taken to mean "do continue"):Go on .Clearly in this common utterance, it is the"on" that is emphasised, and it can easily be seenthat pitch is lower for this word.
Bolingerdetermined that pitch movement, rather than pitchrise only, is the important factor and that thepoint in the sentence where intonation isperceived to rise or fall serves as an importantindicator of stress.1.2 IntensityThe subjective impression often gained from astressed word in an utterance is that it is somehow"louder" than the non-stressed words.
If this wereso, it would be reasonable to assume that therewould be some physical evidence for this in termsof effort made by the speaker, and in terms ofmeasurable intensity.
Until fairly recently, nomethod existed to prove satisfactorily that effortincreased when a word was stressed, but experimentsby Ladefoged (Ladefoged 1967) to obtain myographsof intercostal muscle movement have revealed aheightened tension in these muscles when articulat-ing stressed syllables.
The same set ofexperiments also revealed a small increase insubglottal pressure when a speaker emphasised asyllable.
So physiological evidence does point toincreased effort expelling the airstream whenstressed syllables are produced.
This should ~vesome correlate in measured intensity.i.
3 DurationDuration is recognised as being connectedwith the perception of stress, even if people tendnot to recognise it as such.
This holds forsynthetic speech as well as for natural speech.Experiments carried out with an early version ofthe stress assignment program indicated thatduration is useful, if not essential, to produce anatural-sounding stress pattern, particularlysentence-finally.
A sentence with natural fOmovement and durational increase on the stressedsyllables was contrasted with the same sentencewith just fO movement.
The result was percept-ively more natural-sounding with both pitchmovement and durational increase, although it wasperfectly intelligible without the durationalincreases.
This ties in with observed phenomenain natural speech and will be discussed below.1.& Relative Importance of Pitch.
Intensity andDurationExperiments conducted by Dennis ~ (Fry1955) indicated that the three contributivefactors discussed above are by no means equallyimportant in stress perception.
A minimal pairlist was taken, and stressed syllables werepresented with two out of the three factorspresent, to see what effect this would have onperception.
This is to s~y that the words wouldbe introduced with pitch movement and durationalincrease, but no change in intensity: or intensityand pitch change would be varied normally, butduration of all syllables would be kept constant.The results showed that pitch was by far the mostsignificant factor in stress perception, followedby duration.
Intensity was relatively unimportanteven to the point of being mistaken for anotherparameter (Bolinger, op.
tit).Bolinger found that an increase in intensitywith no corresponding pitch increase was never-theless heard as a pitch raise.
Interestinglyenough, a drop in intensity was not heard as adrop in pitch, merely as a form of interference,as if the speaker's words were being carried awayby the wind.Similar experiments carried out with an earlyversion of this program indicated that the samecould be observed in synthetic speech.
Intonationclearly had the greatest effect onintelligibility; duration was seen to be importantbut not vital to intelligibility; and intenisty~as seen to be relatively unimportant.It was therefore decided to represent stressin the program as a combination of intonationmovement and durational change.
Intensity was notincluded because the software that drove thesynthesiser had no facility for user alteration ofthis parameter.
Taking into account the relativeunimportance of intensity as a cue for stress, itwas not though worthwhile to introduce such afacility to the driver software.2.
Problems Facing the Model: Types of StressIt can be seen from the brief outline givenabove that GENIE must deal with a complex problemin assigning stress to utterance.
The programmust take the whole utterance, assess it in order233to see where stress peaks should occur, and assign~hem dynamically.
A complex phenomenon has to berepresented using very sparse information.2.1 Types of StressStress assignment is a complex issue at atleast two linguistic levels.
As seen in i.I above,there is a notion of stress both at the syllabicand the sentential level.
Even if the stressedwords were predicted correctly within the sentenceby the program (and this is a far from trivialproblem) there still remains the problem ofcorrectly predicting the stressed syllable(s)within the words themselves.
Many theories havebeen advance, both syntactical (eg Chomsky and~alle 1968) and metrical (eg Liberman 1979) topropose a solution to this problem in naturalspeech.
Whilst acknowledging these hypotheses, aphonological solution will be proposed which seemsto handle at least as many cases as do the fore-going.
This is the theory that has been implement-ed in GEi~V.E, and although at present it is in aprototype stage only, it works well.This solution takes as its base theDependency model of vowel space, and proposes thatit is possible, at least for English and possiblyfor other stress languages, to predict syllabicstress on the position of the syllabic nucleuswithin a "sonance hierarchy".
This is a centralnotion of the Dependency Phonology model (Anderson1980), and a brief outline of the model follows forthose unfamiliar with it.2 .1 .1A  Brief Outline of the Dependency Model ofVowel SpaceVarious phonological theories have argued fora non-discrete vowel space, as opposed to adiscrete scale as evidenced in Chomsky and Halle'ssystem of assigning vowels fixed heights, eg+low etc.
.%nong the models arguing for such anon~liscrete space is Dependency Phonology(Anderson, 1980), which takes as its position thatthere exists a linear "scale of sonance" from whichcontinuum points can be chosen.
These points arerecognised as vowels.
In fact the model goesfurther than this in postulating a scale of sonancefor all sounds, as will be seen below.The notion "scal~of sonance" needs someclarification.
Sonance, or sonority as it is alsoknovfn, is best defined acoustically.
A highlysonant sound is characterised by having a highenerhy content and strong formant banding whenexamined on a broad-band spectrogram.
Thesequalities are those possessed by vowels, and infact the model equates sonance with "vowelness",the degree co which a given sound is like a vowel.Thus on the "sonance hierarchy", vowels have themost sonant position, and the continuum goes fromthis point via liquids, nasals, voiced fricativesand voiceless fricatives to voiceless plosives, theleast sonant of all.
Thus the points of the scaleare distinguished from each other in that theiracoustic makeup possesses an amount of "vowelness"that can be compared with that of their neighbourson the scale.
This system is the exact opposite inconcept to the Chomsky and Halle type steppedscale; it is a stepless scale.The part of the sonance hierarchy thatinterests us most is the more vocalic end.However, the scrutiny will extend to cover allsou~da.2.1.2 Using the ModelThis is all very well in theory, but it mustbe applied.
As was said before, the central ideais that words can be assigned stress on the basisof the positions occupied by their componentsegments on the sonance hierarchy.
Taking vowelsonly for a moment, let us see how this works.
Thevocalic end of the scale can be seen as shownbelow, always bearing in mind that labels such as"V" or "VSon" are only points along a continuum:WSon ?WCVSonSonanceVCThus a word like "proposal" can be seen tohave three syllabic nuclei, one of VC, one of ~D/C,and one of VC.
Following the notion of sonance asthe guiding principle, it can be seen that theprimary stress should be awarded to the diphthong.And this is indeed true.But what about words whose syllabic nucleiboth appear to share the same point on the scale,eg "rabbit", "object"?
To attempt to explain this,the notion of the sonance of individual vowels mustbe considered.Vowels themselves can be ranked on a scale ofsonance.
Some vowels are more sonant than others.Examples of this would be \[a9 as opposed to ~i\]  or\[u\].
The theory of Natural Phonology (Donegan andStampe) express this concept in terms of colour.\[a\] is more sonant and less "coloured", in thismodel, than \[i2 or \[u 3.
In Dependency Theo~j, thedifference is expressed in terms of "vowelness" orsonance.
This notion equates to acoustic values,where \[aJ is seen to have more ener~j than Li\] or\[u\] due to the wider exit shape of the vocal tractfor the former.
Experiments carried out by Lehiste(Lehiste 1970) show that this is also borne outperceptually.
~Tnen speakers were asked to pro@ice\[a\] and \[u\]  at what they considered to be the same"loudness", the dB reading for ~a \] was in factconsiderably lower than that for \[u\].
This showedthat ~a\] was perceived as being in some way"louder" and requiring some compensation in orderto pronounce it at the same subjective level as~u\].Thus it seems reasonable to propose a scale ofsonance for vowels as well as more generally forall speech sounds.
When a word like "rabbit" isexamined, it can be seen that ~aeS wins the stressassignment as it is much more sonant than \[Z7.Counter examples do exist, and will be brieflyoutlined.
As it is not the main purpose of this234paper to expound a linguistic theory, the outlinewill not be as rigorous as it might otherwise havebeen.
These counter examples divide roughly intothree groups.
(i) Two forms of the same word can havedifferent stress assignment depending on theirsyntactic category.
Thus:Noun objectVerb objectThe only explanation that can be advanced forthis in terms of the theory proposed above is thatthe two VC groups are close to each other in termsof sonance.
\ [~  3and ~Sare  both reasonably nearthe centre of the tongue height space.
Pairs thatexhibit similar behaviour seem to share thischaracteristic:i~UN VERBI Iproject projectIt is suggested that only such pairs of wordsthat have VC groups whose sonance levels aresufficiently close can exhibit this behaviour, andeven then no explanation can be advanced as to whythis should be so.
It seems likely chat the onlyexplanation is a syntactic one.
(2) Words such as "balance", "valance", etcpresent a problem as it is not immediately apparentas to why the stress should be assigned to thefirst VSon group; both the vowels are the same.However, it should be remembered that nasalspossess less overall energy than do liquids, albeitnot much less.
It is suggested that a VNasal groupis marginally less sonant than a VLiquid group.
(3) Words with suffixes also tend to presenta problem, viz:I Iolastic but plasticity.It is suggested that the only answer to thisis a syntactic one.31any words were examined in this way, andalthough there was never anything like one hundredpercent correctness, it was seen that such a notioncould form the basis for a robust, compactalgorithm for syllabic stress assignment, ~thoutthe need for many production-type rules as seen inthe systems that use MIT-type syntactic stressassignment rules.
It can also be seen from theabove that a syntactic component will probably beneeded to supplement the purely phonologicalsolution in a developed system.
However, it issubmitted that an algorithm based on this systemwill be considerably less cumbersome than thosecurrently used, and should also produce a compact,natural solution to the problem.2.2 Sentential StressThe problem of stress, as stated above, is atwo-level problem.
As well as being assigned tosyllables within the word, stress is also assignedto the whole sentence.
The problem is that no oneseems to have produced a definitive set of rulesfrom which an algorithm for sentential stressassignment can be evolved.
Most text-to-speechsystems use the notion of "function" and "content"words.
While by no means claiming to solve thisproblem, an algorithm will be suggested forsentential stress assignment which works somewhatbetter than those in present systems.3.
Algorithms DevelopedThis selection will explain how GENIE dealswith the two-level problem of stress assignment.It must be emphasised that the solution proposed islittle more than a prototype, and does not presenta complete solution to this complex problem.
Theoperation of the Prolog will be examined inprinciple, but without going too deeoly into thecode.3.1 Sentence ProcessingFirstly, the user types in a sentence innormal English text, with word boundariesind/cated in the normal way by spaces.
Each wordis read in and instantiated to an item in a Prologlist.
Element separations are indicated by commas.Now the program has to converz the English listelements to a phonetic transcription.
The approachtaken was not to use grapheme-to-phoneme for thisprototype system.
Instead, the words were lookedup in a dictionary and the relevant list chansedelement by element.
An example will clarify thestages up to this point:English text: this is a tricky project.List form: this,is,a,tricky,project,.~honetzc form: \[dh,qq,i,s,i,z,qq, zz,a,ch, ci, rr,i,k,k~# ,kz, i,p,py,pz,rr, o, j, jy, e,k,k,ky,kz, t, .\]This sentence now has to be classified usingtwo criteria; firstly the punctuation (giving theoverall sentence type) and the syntactic structure.The last element in the list is a full stop.
Thistells the program that the sentence is adeclarative.
If it had had a question mark,further processing would have been done todetermine what type of question, ie WH-question,reverse-~ question etc.
Nhen this has been done,the relevant intonation pattern is selected.Notice that the sentence is not parsed in anyrecognised way to determine the type of intonationpattern.
There are merely a series of informalquestions ie "Is sentence a luestion?
If it is, isthis question a WH-question?"
These informalchecks seem to be all that is necessars'.3.2 Assignment of IntonationThe two level problem of intonation ~ssignLlentis dealt with in this program by first assigning anintonation contour to the sentence, and thenmodifying the words that the program selects asstressed.
The following general scheme wasadopted:235(i) Assign a general intonation slope to thesentence.
(2) Fit it to the length of the sentence(3) Find the stressed word(s) in the sentence(&) Assign stress peaks to them(5) interpolate values either side of thesepeaks to form a slopeNote that this description is really too vagueto be called an algorithm.
Each section containsalgorit~ns, however, and they will be explained int drn.3.2.1 Assignment of General fO ContoursThe classification of the sentence was done inorder that the program should select the correctintonation slope, peak values etc for the type ofsentence typed in.
These slopes are simply Prologlists of ~nall integers, eventually intended to beread by the program as fO values.
The values usedwere obtained from analysis of recorded sentencesspoken by the author.
For instance, the "skeletonslope" for a declarative sentence was found, whenthe relevant Hz values had been translated intovalues suitable for the program, to descend From aninitial value of 12 to a final value of 6.
Theslope was expressed thus:\[12,11,10,9,8,~,6\]It can be seen that as all sentences aredifferent lengths, this general slope must somehowbe "fitted" to the sentence.
"Length" in thiscontext refers to the length of a Prolog list; thusthe list above would have a length of sevenelements, each element being delimited by a comma.The transcribed list above is rather longer;it has 30 elements.
Obviously each sentence isGoing to differ in length.
The algorithm event-ually adopted was as follows:(i) Find the length of the phonetic list(2) Find the length of the selected skeletonslope(3) Perform an integer division on the lengthof the phonetic list by the length of the slope(4) Use the result as a sentinel.
The head ofthe skeleton slope is assigned to a third listuntil the sentinal number is exceeded.
In this way,a list is built up which has repeated occurences ofthe skeleton slope values to allow a slope of thesame length as the phonetic list to be built up,although the original skeleton remai~s the samelength.
(5) When the slope is empty, any remainingelements in the sentence list are assigned to thelast non-null value in the slope.Parts (i) to (3) of the algorithm were easy.The built-in predicate length/2 found the lengthsof the relevant lists.
Part (4) was a recursiveroutine that built up a list of integers, doing oneof two things as conditions in the algorithmdictated:(a) If the element in the phonetic list is aphone and the value of the sentinel variable hasnot been exceeded, then assign the present value ofthe head of the skeleton slope to the list beingbuilt up.
Then recurse down the phonetic list butnet the slope, so as to assign the same value tothe next element in the phonetic list.
(b) If the sentinel value has been exceeded,then recurse down both the phonetic list and theslope so as to assign the next value in the slopeto the phonetic list.Part (5) is self-explanato~j; the sentence isalways longer than the slope by a few elements, soa "filler" element was necessary.
This was the endpitch of the slope list, which for a surprisinglylarge number of sentence types was 6.3.2.3 Finding the Stressable WordsThe system used by most text-to-speech systemsto select stressable words is that of content andfunction word, and this system is no exception.However, it was mentioned that the algorithm usedwas a slight improvement on existing ones.
Thealgorithms that exist tend to use a strate~ ofstressing the last content word in a sentence.While this is reasonable as stress in English tendsto occur cllm~ctically, it results in a rathermonotonous rendition of sentences if more than oneis spoken in succession.The algorithm that was developed carries itsimprovement in the way it controls which contentwords are to be stressed in any given sentence, andworks as follows:(i) If the sentence is a declarative, anemphatic or a ?,~-question, then select for stress-ing any content words that occur A:-T~R the verb.
(2) If the sentence is an NP-AUX inversionquestion and there are content words after theverb, stress the content words, but not the verb.The main verb is taken as the marker, not theauxiliary.
(3) If, in either of the above types, thereare no content words after the verb, then stressthe verb.This covers a substantial subset of thecommonly occurring stress patterns in English, butby no means all.
One major improvement to thisprogram lies in increasing the subset dealt with.This algorithm is readily admitted to be the mostunsatisfactory area of the program.
The notion ofthe verb as a marker is linguistically suspect, andonly acts as a convenient marker for the program torecognise.
Stress can occur both before and afterthe verb, and in the present implementation thereis as yet no means of dealing with this.2363.2.~ Assigning Stress PeaksThe procedure that finds the stressable wordsuses the original English text in Prolog-list form.The list is searched according to the followingalgorithm:(1) Go through the list recursively, checkingeach word for membership of the "verb" list.
Whenone is found, go to (2).
(2) Search the remaining part of the listrecursively until a content word is found.
Findout what position this element is in the list, andthen assign its phonetic counterpart a syllabicstress pattern.
If no word is found, keep search-ing until t'~e end of the list is found, in whichcase go back to the verb and assign it a syllabicstress pattern.
(3) If neither verb nor content words arefound, report an error.3.2.4.1 Assigning Syllabic StressBefore the wor~s)  chosen by the foregoingalgorithm can be assigned to the list, the correctsyllable within that word must be stressed.
Thisis where the principle of sonance hierarchy comesin.
It was mentioned that there is a notion of ascale of sonance.
This notion was implemented!uite simply.
Each member of the scale is given aweighted valued dpending on its sonance, rangingfrom 1 for a voiceless plosive to 11 for adiphthong followed by a sonant.
The list used forthis is the phonetic version of the English textword.
For example, suppose the word "program" hadbeen chosen to be assigned the stress peak.
This~ord would be represented in the system's phoneticalohabet as\[ p,py,pz,rr,oa,ob,g,gy,gz,rr,aa,m~This list, when the syllabic stress assig~aentroutine had performed its function, would have acompanion list that looked like this:~l, -1, -i, l, 9,-I, i, -I, -i,1,8, i\]The -i values are dummy values given toelements such as "PY" and "PZ" which are needed bythe system in order to produce the various acousticcomponents of plosives and have no relevance tostress assignment.
~ence they are given very lowvalues to preclude their ever being chosen to actas a stress peak.Another routine takes the maximum integervalue in the list and marks its position.
A copyof t~s  list has a special symbol substituted forthe relevant element, thus:i1 1 ll ,ll 1 181\]and this symbol is inserted into the main list.This can be done by virtue of the fact that thephonetic list is in face made up of smaller listsof the individual phonetic representations of theEnglish words.
There is a straight forwardsubstitution of the special symbol in the list seenabove for the phoneme that occupies the sameposition in the phonetic representation that hasjust had syllabic stress assigned to it.
This listis then integrated into the main list.The result of all this is a list ve~j similarto the original phonetic rendition of the Englishtext, but with a special symbol substituted at thepoint that has been chosen to have stress assignedto it.The next step is to transfer all t}is to theintonation slope that was created earlier.
Forthis process, the list with the special symbol andthe list representing the general intonation trendfor the required sentence are both searched downrecursively; if the symbol is found at the head ofthe phonetic list, the relevant stress peak value(an fO value obtained from recorded speech) isinserted in its place in a third list.
Otherwise,the values of the slope are transferred co thisthird list.3.2.5 InterpolationThis process ensures that there is a smoothrise and fall towards and away from the selectedpeak so as to give a natural effect.
It takesadvantage of the interpolation procedures alreadyexisting in the synthesis program.
The stress peakis again found by searching down the list in asimilar manner to that described above, ghen it isfound, the following algorithm is followed.
(1) Obtain the value of the stress peak(2) Obtain the value of the element on theleft hand side of the peak(3) Average the values obtained above(@) Assign the result to the element on theleft of the peak(5) Do the same for the value on the right ofthe peakThe basic assignment of intonation to thesentence is now complete.
There are, however, twoadditional modifications to be performed.
One isinvoked if there is more than one content wordafter the verb.
Initially, both of these areassigned the same stress value, but before theinterpolation is assigned, the second peak isreduced by a fixed amount that depends on the t/peof sentence.The second is performed if the final word isstressed on the final syllable.
It was found thata normal slope after a word-final stress peak wasnot steep enough to produce a convincing pitchfall.
This was countered by inhibiting the normalinterpolation routine to the right of any suchpeaks.3.3 Durational AssignmentThe synthesis program to which GENIE acts as afront-end has a set of standard durations that areassigned to phonemes.
To assign duration the2~following algorithm was adopted:Search down the phonetic list after stresspeak assignment, doing:(1) If the head of the list is the specialsymbol, increase the standard duration of theelement by one.
(2) Plosive subelements (the PY, PZ etc.
phonesreferred to earlier) have their durations doubledto increase plosive frication.
Similar elements atthe end of sentences have their durations tripled.
(3) Non-stressed elements with a durationabove a certain level have their durations reduce@by a fixed proportion.The default is "assign -1 in all other cases".This signals to the system that a default durationshould be assigned to the element.The outcome of all this are three lists; thephonetic list, a list of fO values and a list ofdurations, the last two simulating the stresspatterns found in a similar sentence in naturalspeech.The durational alterations were found on a"suck it and see" basis.
InitiallY it was how todeal with durational assignment, other thanlengthening duration in stressed positions.Successive values were put in in all strategicpositions in the program, and the resulsts weretested by ear.&.
ImprovementsAs mentioned before, this program is onlY aprototype.
The main stress assignment algorithmsneed to be refined; more syntactic types need to beincluQed so that a larger corpus of Englishsyntactic types can be included.
In particular,the syllabic stress assignment program shouldperhaps contain some syntactic information to h~lpthe basic algorithm where phonology is inadequate.LADEFOGED, PThree ~meas of Experimental PhoneticsChapter I: Stress and Respiratory Action pp 1-~9Oxford University Press 1967LEHISTE, ISuprasegmentalsMIT Press 1970LIBERMAN, LThe Intonational System of EnglishNew York 1979R~E~ ~CESA:D~-C~S0\[:, J M and E~VEN, C eds.Studies in Dependency PhonologyLudwigsburg Studies in Language and Linguistics19%0BOLIIDER, D LA Theory of Pirch Accent in English Word 1958CH0;~:SKY, N and HALLE, MThe Sound Pattern of Englishhiew York Harper & Row 1968:-~Y, DDuration and Intensity as Physical Correlates ofLinguistic StressJournal of the Acoustic Society of America N0.27,pp 765-8 1955238
