THE RESOLUTION OF LOCAL SYNTACTIC  AMBIGUITYBY THE HUMAN SENTENCE PROCESSING MECHANISM.Gerry A l tmannDepartment  of L ingu is t icsUn ivers i ty  of Ed inburghGeorge SquareEd inburgh EH8 9LL.
(GB)ABSTRACTThe reso lut ion  of local syntact icambigu i ty  by the Human Sentence Process ingMechan ism is a topic  which has provokedcons iderab le  interest  in recent years.
Atissue is whether  such ambigu i t ies  areresolved on the basis of syntact icin format ion  a lone (cf.
Min imal  A t tachmentFrazier, 1979), or whether  they arereso lved on some other basis.
Cra in  &Steedman (1982) suggest  that thereso lut ion  process is governed not byMin imal  At tachment  but instead by whetheror not a re fer r ing  express ion  prov idessuf f ic ient  in format ion  with which toident i fy  a unique referent.
Such anapproach rel ies on the prov is ion  ofadequate  contextua l  informat ion,  someth ingwhich has been lacking in exper imentswhich have been c la imed to support  Min imalAttachment.
In this paper I shal lcons ider  a number of such exper iments ,  andthe d i f fe rent  patterns of results  whichemerge once contextua l  in fo rmat ion  isprovided.
A l though the importance ofcontextual  in format ion  wil l  be stressed, Ishall  br ief ly  cons ider  reasons why pars ingpreferences  ar ise in the absence of anyexpl ic i t  pr ior context.
The conc lus ion  isthat computat iona l  models  of syntact icambigu i ty  reso lut ion  which are based onev idence which has ignored contextua lcons iderat ions  are models  of someth ingother than natural  language processing.There has been much cont roversyrecent ly  sur round ing  the processesrespons ib le  for the "garden path" ef fectLn the fo l lowing kind of example:The oil tycoon sold the o f f - shoreoil tracts for a lot of moneywanted to kil l  J.R.The garden path ef fect  ar ises here becausethe Human Sentence Process ing  Mechan ism("HSPM") encounters,  dur ing the process ingof this sentence, a local syntact icambiguity.
The word "sold" is ambiguous:it can be in terpreted  ei ther  as a s impleactive, or it can be in terpreted  as a pastpart ic ip le,  in a reduced passive.
Theonly way to make the whole str ing into asentence is to in terpret  it as a reducedform of the passive.
However, what seemsto happen in this (and similar)  examplesis that people tend to in terpret  the word"sold" as the main verb.
This tendencyleads them down a syntact ic  garden path.So the HSPM exhib i ts  a p re ference  forone analys is  over another  when faced witha local ambiguity .
But why?
A number ofsuggest ions  have been made concern ingthis.
One suggest ion,  o r ig ina l ly  proposedby K imbal l  (1973) and fo l lowed up morerecent ly  by Fraz ier  (1979) and Rayner,Carlson, & Fraz ier  (1983), is that theHSPM takes into account  the syntact ics t ructure  of these sentences.
There aretwo poss ib le  s t ructures  which could beass igned to the ambiguous  sentencef ragmentThe oil tycoon sold the o f f - shoreoil t racts .
.
.The reduced pass ive in terpreta t ionrequires  an extra NP node as compared tothe main verb interpretat ion .
K imbal l(1975) and Fraz ier  suggest  that when morethan one in terpreta t ion  is possible,  onepursues that in terpreta t ion  which createsthe s t ructure  with fewest  nodes.
This iswhat Fraz ier  cal ls the Pr inc ip le  ofMin imal  At tachment .This s t ructura l  hypothes is  proposes,then, that an in i t ia l  dec is ion  is made ongrounds of syntact ic  s t ructure  alone.
Ifit subsequent ly  turns out to be the wrongdec is ion  (on grounds of " implaus ib i l i ty" ) ,the a l te rnat ive  ana lys is  (which isident i f ied  on the basis of " themat icse lect ion" - Rayner  et al, 1983) is then,and only then, attempted.
In support  ofthis claim, Rayner  et al co l lec tedreading t imes and eye movement  data forsentences which, syntact i ca l ly  speaking,a l low two a t tachment  sites for aprepos i t iona l  phrase: one attachment,  toan NP, requires an extra NP node ascompared to the other attachment,  which isto a VP.123The burglar  b lew open the safe wi th  thedynamite  (Minimal a t tachment  to VP)The burglar  b lew open the safe with thed iamonds (Non-minimal  a t tachment  to NP)In the case of the non-min ima l ly  a t tachedversion, the correct  a t tachment  (to theNP) would be a t tempted  only  after  theminimal  a t tachment  to the VP had f i rstbeen tried.
As they had predicted,read ing t imes to the non-min ima l lya t tached vers ions were s ign i f i cant ly~onqer  than to the min ima l ly  a t tachedvers ions.An a l te rnat ive  to Min imal  A t tachmentis proposed by Ford, Bresnan, & Kaplan(1982), who suggest  that these pre ferencesar ise from the order in whichlex ica l / syntact i c  rules in the grammar canbe accessed (of.
Wanner 's" implementat ion"  of Min imal  At tachment ,1980).
Ford et al.
's  theory of Lexica lP re ference  is more powerfu l  than Min imalAt tachment  because this o rder ing  can, inpart, be determined  by the actual  lexicalitems which are involved.
But these twoproposa ls  are both, in effect,s t ruc tura l ly  based.
They take no accountof the re ferent ia l  funct ion  of thepar t icu lar  const ruct ions  involved.Stephen Crain (Crain, 1980, d i scussedin Cra in  & Steedman, 1982) noted that whatmany of the garden-path  sentences  have incommon is that of the two poss ib leanalyses,  one is funct iona l ly  equ iva lentto, or ident ica l  with, a res t r i c t ivere lat ive clause.
Nounphrases  are used bythe speaker to refer to objects.
Thefunct ion of a res t r i c t ive  re la t ive  is togive add i t iona l  in fo rmat ion  as to who orwhat is being ta lked about.
Thisadd i t iona l  in format ion  is necessarybecause wi thout  it, there would  beinsuf f i c ient  ev idence with which todetermine  who or what was being re fer redto.
So res t r i c t ive  re lat ives  are usedbecause if we'd just heard the express ion"the oil tycoon" or "the safe" we wouldnot have known just which cand idate  "oiltycoon" or which cand idate  "safe" wasintended.
But wi%ere do these d i f fe rent"candidate .... oil tycoons" and "safes" comefrom?
Normally,  they must p resumably  beint roduced into the d i scourse  some timebefore these target  sentences areencountered,  and represented by speakerand hearer in some kind of model of thediscourse.
There is a sense in which allof these examples are unnatura l  becauseeach sentence is presented in isolat ion.We refer to "the oil tycoon" and "theo f f - shore  oil tracts",  but we've neverment ioned them before.
To contro l  forthis, we should real ly  present  thesetarget sentences embedded in a context.S tephen Cra in  did just this: us ing anincrementa l  g rammat ica l i ty  judgement  task,and a c lass of ambigu i ty  which isd i f fe rent  in form but the same inpr inc ip le  (see below), he showed thatgarden path ef fects  could be overcome orinduced depend ing  on the re ferent ia lnature  of the context  (i.e.
depend ing  onwhether  just one "oil tycoon" or more thanone "oil tycoon" had been in t roduced inthe preced ing  text).
The work of Cra insuggests  that a major  methodo log ica lshor tcoming  in the work of Fraz ier  (1979),Rayner  et al (1983) and Ford et al(1982) is the absence of any contextw i th in  which the par t i cu la r  syntact i cconst ruct ions  they were s tudy ing could bea l lowed to function.
There is thus a veryde f in i te  sense in which the process ing  ofthese const ruct ions  wil l  have beenabnormal .
It fo l lows that a su i tab le  testof Rayner  et a l .
's  c la ims is to rep l i ca tetheir  exper iment  us ing the same read ingt ime task, but with the prov is ion  ofcontexts  which are fe l i c i tous  with one orother  of the two vers ions  of the i rexamples.The fo l lowing contexts  were dev isedfor an exper iment  (Altmann, forthcoming,and A l tmann & Steedman, for thcoming) :T__oo ~nduce a t tachment  to NPA burg lar  car ry ing  some dynami tebroke into an he i ress ' s  house.Once ins ide he found two safes.One of them had some d iamondsins ide wh i l s t  the other hadseveral  pr ice less  emeralds.To induce a t tachment  to VPA burg lar  car ry ing  some dynami tebroke into an he i ress 's  house.Once ins ide he found a safe and ajewelry box.
One of them had somed iamonds ins ide whi l s t  the otherhad several  pr ice less  emeralds.M in imal  (V_~P) a t tachmentThe burg lar  b lew open the safewith the dynamite.Non-min ima l  (NP) a t tachmentThe burg lar  b lew open the safewith the d iamonds.These examples  are "min ima l ly -d i f fe rent"to the extent  that the only d i f fe rencebetween them is the change from "twosafes" to "a safe and a jewelry box".This is a change which, in theory, a f fectsonly the card ina l i ty  of the set of"safes".It was found that there was a s t rong124effect  of re ferent ia l  context  on the non-min imal ly  (NP) a t tached targets  (230msec) .
Furthermore,  reading t imes tothese were cons iderab ly  faster thanreading t imes to the min imal ly  (VP)a t tached vers ions (there was a d i f fe renceof 348 msec in the "NP- inducing"condit ions,  and 190 msec overal l  I ).
Thisis of course the reverse of what  would beexpected on a Min imal  A t tachment  orI,exical P re ference  account.
Ne i ther  ofthese could account  for this ef fectw i thout  having to d iscount  theexper imenta l  ev idence which cur rent lysupports  them.However ,  it was also found that therewas n__oo ef fect  of context  on the min imal ly(VP) at tached targets (the d i f fe rence  inreading time across the two contextcondi t ions  was only 78 msec).
This wassurpr is ing given that the "VP- inducing"context  should have been fe l ic i tous  wi ththis target, and the "NP- inducing" contextinfe l ic i tous.
It became apparent,however, that ne i ther  of these contextswas in fact fe l ic i tous with VP-at tachment .The funct ion of a PP when at tached toan NP, in these examples, is to provideaddi t iona l  and necessary  in format ion  withwhich to ident i fy  a par t icu lar  ob ject  inthe d iscourse  model.
As such it must beprov id ing GIVEN in format ion  (cf.
C lark  &Haviland, 1977).
The funct ion of a PPwhen attached to a verb, is to prov ide NEWinformat ion about the act ion denoted bythe verb: the burg lar  d idn ' t  s imply b lowopen the safe, he blew it open with thedynamite.
This in turn, presupposes  thatthe act ion denoted by the verb ("blowopen") is GIVEN.
In the so -ca l led  "VP-inducing" context, this was not the case:the co--text (that is, the preced ing text)was not fe l ic i tous with the VP~attachment .A second exper iment  was run in which the"blowing open" was known about  by subjectsin advance of the target  sentence (i.e.was Given), and this time, strong ef fectsof context  were found on both kinds oftarget  (113 msec for NP-at tached targetsacross the two condi t ions  of context, and358 msec for the VP-at tached targets) .Once again, the non-min ima l ly  at tachedtargets were s ign i f i cant ly  faster than themin imal ly  at tached targets (486 msec inthe NP- induc ing  condit ion,  and 245 msecoveral l ) .What seems to be important,  then, isnot so much the s t ructure  of aconstruct ion,  but rather thepresuppos i t ions  which are impl icated byits use.
If these presuppos i t ions  haveI All reported d i f fe rences  weref icant at least at p<O.05.s ign i -been sat is f ied  by the preced ing  d iscourse,then that const ruct ion  wil l  be favouredover a const ruct ion  whose assoc ia tedpresuppos i t ions  have not been sat is f ied.This not ion is important  because itsapp l i ca t ion  to another  class of ambigu i typhenomena suggests  that ev idenceprev ious ly  thought  to favour lexical  ors t ructura l  accounts  of the reso lut ionprocess does not bear on the issue ofambigu i ty  reso lut ion  at all.In the fo l lowing ambiguous  example,the complement  c lause ana lys is  of the"that-c lause" is pre fer red  to the re la t ivec lause ana lys is  (e.g.
Wanne~, Kaplan, &Shiner, 1974).The boy told the gir l  that hel iked the storyFurthermore,  even when the re la t ive  c lauseana lys is  is in i t ia l ly  chosen, theseexamples  take longer to process  (via areading t ime measure) than when thecomplement  ana lys is  is chosen (e.g.Wanner, Kaplan, & Shiner, 1974; Altmann,forthcoming) ,  In other words, there lat ive  c lause analys is  is not just theleast  preferred,  but is also the more"complex".
The general  exp lanat ion  isthat, in the example above, the nounphrase "the girl" is p re ferent ia l l yt reated as a s imple NP, and not as thef irst  NP const i tuent  in a complex NP.Wanner  et al (1974) and Wanner  (1980)model  these ef fects  using an ATN, and showthat they can be made to ar ise frompecu l ia r i t ies  of the order in which arcsleave certa in  states.
Fraz ier  & Fodor(1978) cite this observat ion  in support  ofMin imal  At tachment ,  whi ls t  Ford et al(1982) would predict  this ef fect  on thebasis of their  theory of lexical  andsyntact ic  preferences,  in which the s impleNP expans ion  is ordered before the complexNP expansion.With regard to the pre ference  forcomplements  over relat ives,  Cra in 'sor ig ina l  demonst ra t ion  of re ferent ia lcontext  ef fects  used examples whichexh ib i ted  this same class of localambiguity.
However, by the nature of thetask he employed, Crain did not addressthe issue of complexi ty .Rest r i c t ive  re lat ives  prov ide Giveninformat ion,  and the in format ion  conta inedwi th in  the re lat ive  must there fore  bematched aga inst  in format ion  which a l readyexists  in the hearer 's  model of theuniverse.
This match ing processpresumably  requires a cer ta in  amount ofinferencing,  or "br idging" (of.
Hav i land& Clark, 1974; Sanford & Garrod, 1981).Complement  c lauses requi re  no suchmatch ing  process, and are there fore  lesscomplex.
The in ferenc ing  process can only125be contro l led  for if the mater ia l s  understudy are preceded by fe l ic i tous co-texts.To assess the cont r ibut ion  of in fe renc ingto process ing time, an exper iment  was run(Altmann, forthcoming)  using the fo l lowingexamples (which are s imi lar  to those usedby Crain, 1980)."
INFERENCING"A po l i ceman was quest ion ing  twowomen.
He was susp ic ious  of oneof them but not of the other.
"MINIMAL INFERENCING"A po l i ceman was quest ion ing  twowomen.
He had his d Qubt$ aboutone of them but not about  the oth-er.RELAT IVE  CLAUSE TARGETThe po l i ceman told the woman thath_ee had his doubts  about  to tel lthe truth.COMPLEMENT CLAUSE TARGETThe po l i ceman told the woman thathe had his doubts  about  her c leveralibi.
(The under l in ing  was not present  in theexper imenta l  items.)
The amount  ofin ferenc ing  requi red to process there lat ive target  was man ipu la ted  bychanging the (under l ined) word ing  in thepreceding co- text  from "was susp ic ious  of"(" inferencing")  to "had his doubts  about"("minimal in ferenc ing") .
Apart  fromf inding strong ef fects  of context  ( therebyrep l icat ing Cra in 's  exper iment  but with ad i f fe rent  methodo logy  - read ing  time), itwas found that there was n__q abso luted i f fe rence  between complement  targets  andre lat ive  targets  once context  @ndin ferenc ing  were cont ro l led  for (only 31msec in the "minimal in ferenc ing"cond i t ion  vs. 385 msec in the" inferencing" condit ion) .It would appear, then, that much ofthe ev idence c i ted in the l i teratureconcern ing  the reso lut ion  of localsyntact ic  ambigu i ty  has beenmis in terpreted  because these studies have~ailed to cons ider  the re ferent ia lfunct ion of the const ruct ions  in quest ion.An account  of syntact ic  ambigu i tyreso lut ion  has been a l luded to which isbased on a not ion of re ferent ia l  contextand d iscourse  models.
More spec i f ica l ly ,it is an account  based on the act ofes tab l i sh ing  what is, and what  is not,a l ready known to the hearer.
But a l thoughit can exp la in  pars ing pre ferences  when atarget sentence is embedded in ad iscourse,  can it a lso account  for thepreferences  exh ib i ted  in i so latedsentences  (the "null context"  cf.
theor ig ina l  "oil tycoon" example)?In the absence of any preced ingdiscourse,  there can exist  no d i scoursemodel  w i th in  which to in tegrate  thein fo rmat ion  conta ined  wi th in  the iso latedsentence.
In such cases, noth ing  can besucces fu l ly  in terpreted  as Givenin format ion.
It fo l lows that  all  incomingmater ia l  must  be t reated as if it p rov idesNew informat ion.
If the incoming mater ia lis ambiguous,  between a reading whichpromises  New in fo rmat ion  (e.g.
acomplement  clause) and one which  promisesG iven in fo rmat ion  (e.g.
a re la t iveclause),  then in the null  context  theformer in terpreta t ion  must  be chosen.
Ingeneral ,  if there is a cho ice between acomplex  NP analys is ,  wh ich  impl icatesadd i t iona l  G iven in fo rmat ion  by which toident i fy  the in tended referent,  and as imple NP analys is ,  then in the nul lcontext2the  s imple  NP ana lys is  must  bechosen.S t ruc tura l ly  based theor ies  of localsyntact ic  ambigu i ty  reso lu t ion  can accountfor the null  context  data, but cannotaccount  for the data concern ing  contextua le f fects  on ambigu i ty  reso lut ion.
Thepresent  account  can be app l ied  to bothsets of data.Many studies  have, in the past,v iewed syntax as being concerned with  there la t ions  which hold w i th in  s ing lesentences.
Such a v iew is shor t -s ighted,however.
Wi th in  a dia logue,  the speaker ' sin tent ion  is to evoke a spec i f i c  set of2 A l though this exp la ins  the prefer -ence, in the nul l  context,  for complementc lauses over re la t ive  clauses,  it does notexp la in  the increased complex i ty  of rela-t ive clauses.
This is exp la ined  as fol-lows: the re lat ive  c lause in tepretat ionv io la tes  more presuppos i t ions  (concern ingthe state of the hearer 's  d i scourse  model)than does the complement  c lause in terpre-tat ion (see Cra in & Steedman, 1982, andA l tmann & Steedman, forthcoming,  for dis-cussion).
The reported exper iments  demon-st rated that such v io la t ions  lead to in-creased reading times.
The re la t ivec lause in terpreta t ion  induces longer read-ing t imes because of the increased numberof these v io lat ions.3 It is argued in A l tmann ( forthcoming)and A l tmann & Steedman ( forthcoming) ,  thatan account  based on the d i s t inc t ionbetween what is and what is not a l readyknown to the hearer / reader  (here de f inedas the d i s t inc t ion  between Given and New)wil l  a lso genera l i se  to the examples  wh ichhave, on "structura l"  accounts,  been ex-p la ined by R ight  Assoc ia t ion  (Kimball ,1973) and Late C losure  (Frazier, 1979).126processes in the hearer.
This isachieved, in part, by way of the syntact icconstruct ions  which the speaker chooses toadopt.
The role of these processes is toestab l i sh  a re la t ionsh ip  between thein format ion conveyed by the utterance, andthe in format ion a l ready known to thehearer.
Such processes must thereforeaddress in format ion which is both internaland external  to the utterance.
Studieswhich purport  either to invest igatesyntact ic  process ing empir ical ly ,  or tomodel it computat ional ly ,  should notignore the role or the requi rements  ofthese processes.
To do so is to studysomething other than natural  languageprocessing.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe work reported here was carr iedout whi lst  in the School of Ep is temics  onan S.E.R.C.
postgraduate  researchstudentship.
My thanks to the Centre forSpeech Technology Research and the A lveyLarge Scale Demonst rator  Project, forprovid ing addi t ional  f inancia l  support,and to my superv isors  El len Bard and MarkSteedman, for prov id ing addi t iona l  moralsupport.REFERENCESAltmann, G.T.M.
Forthcoming.
Referenceand the Reso lut ion  of Local Syntact icAmbiguity:  The Effect of Context  dur ingHuman Sentence Processing.
PhD Thesis.Univers i ty  of Edinburgh.
To beSubmitted.A\]tmann, G.T.M., & Steedman, M.J.
The(\]arden Path in Context: Reference andthe Reso lut ion  of Local Syntact icAmbiguity.
In preparat ion.Bresnan, J.
1982.
The MentalRepresentat ion  o_~f Grammat ica l  Relat ions.MIT Press.Clark, H.H.
& Havi land, S.E.
1977.Comprehens ion  and the G iven-NewContract.
In (ed.)
R.O.
FreedleDiscourse Product ion  and Comprehension.Crain, S. 1980.
Contextual  Const ra intson Sentence Comprehension.
PhD Thesis.Un ivers i ty  of Connect icut .Crain, S. & Steedman, M.J. 1982.
On notbeing led up the garden path: the use ofcontext  by the psycho log ica l  parser.
In(eds.)
Dowty, D., Kartunnen, L., &Zwicky, A.
Natural  Language Parsing:psychological ,  computat ional ,  andtheoret ica l  perspect ives.
In press.Ford, M., Bresnan, J., & Kaplan, R.M.1982.
A Competence-Based  Theory ofSyntact ic  Closure.
In J. Bresnan(1982).Frazier,  L. 1979.
O__nn Comprehend ingSentences: Syntact ic  Pars inqStrategies.
Ph.D. D issertat ion,Un ivers i ty  of Connect icut .Frazier, L. & Fodor, J.D.
1978.
TheSausage Machine: A new 2-stage Pars ingModel.
In Cognit ion, 6, 291-325.Havi land, S. & Clark, H.H.
1974.
What 'sNew?
Acqu i r ing  New In format ion as aProcess in Comprehens ion.
J .V .L .V.B.
,13, 512-21.Kimball ,  J.
1973.
7 Pr inc ip les  ofSurface St ructure  Parsing.
Cognit ion,2, 15-47.Kimbal l ,  J.
1975.
Pred ic t ive  Ana lys isand Over -The-Top  Parsing.
In J. K imbal l(ed) Syntax and Semantics,  Vo lume 4.Rayner,  K., Carlson, M., & Frazier,  L.1983.
The Interact ion  of Syntax andSemant ics  dur ing Sentence Process ing.In Journal  of Verbal  Learn ing and VerbalBehaviour,  22, 358-374.Sanford, A.J.
& Garrod, S.C. 1981.Unders tand ing  Wr i t ten  Language.
Wiley.Wanner, E. 1980.
The ATN and the sausageMachine: which one is baloney?
InCognit ion, 8, 209-225.Wanner, E., Kaplan, R., & Shiner, S. 1974.Garden Paths in Re lat ive  Clauses.Unpub l i shed ms. Harvard Univers i ty.127
