HOW DOES NATURAL LANGUAGE QUANTIFY?Michael HessUn ivers i ty  of Zur ich ,  Seminar  of Genera l  L ingu is t i cs ,Plattenstrasse 54, CH-8032 Zur ich ,  Swi tzer landABSTRACTIt has traditionally been assumed that NaturalLanguage uses explicit quantifier expressions(such as "all" and "most", "the" and "a") for thepurpose of quantification.
We argue that expressi-ons of the first type are comparatively rare inreal world Natural Language sentences, and thatthe latter (articles) cannot be considered stra-ightforward quantlfiers in the first place.
How-ever, practically all applications of NaturalLanguage Processfng require sentences to bequantified unambiguously.
We llst a few possible( syntactical, semantical, and  "pragmatical") sour-ces of "implicit" quantiflcatlonal information inNatural Language; they combine in sometimesintricate ways to give a sentence a (more or less)unambiguous quantification.i.
THE LACK OF  EXPLICIT QUANTIF ICAT ION INNATURAL LANGUAGE- " I. i INTRODUCTIONThe sub ject  of the present  paper  is not s t r i c t lyone of Computat ional  L inEuist ics .
Ne i ther  does itout l ine a work ing  computer  program,  nor  invest i -gate a linguistic problem with the help of compu-tational methods.
A/though the subject may bepure ly  linguistic in character  it is par t i cu la r lyre levant  to Computat ional  L ingu is t ics .
Moreover  itseems to have been ignored by most non-computa-tional linguists.Computational as well as non-computationallinguists agree that we have to represent NaturalLanguage sentences as quantified logical senten-ces, either in a graphical variant of logic such assemantic networks, or in some other form oflogic.
However, non-computational linguists donot very often use real-world examples in theirinvestigations; they create their own example sen-tences to make a certain point.
Everything whichis not in the prhnary focus of their interest ismade so explicit as to become largely self-expla-natory.
They tend, for instance, to create onlysentences where quantification is explicit.
Com-putational linguists, on the other hand, have touse real world texts.
They  have to face certainnasty facts of life which they, too, would preferto ignore.
One of them concerns the way in whichNatural Language quantifies.1.2 THE TRADIT IONAL POINT  OF  VIEW:QUANTIF IERS ARE EXPLICITTraditionally it has almost always been assumedthat quantification is expressed in Natural Langu-age by explicit means.
The most traditional viewhad it that simple surface words correspond one-to-one to the two classical quantifiers: "every"and "all" stand for the universal quantifier,"some" for the existential quantifier:every  man is mortalsome gods  are  morta lHowever, it has long been known that the over-whelmlng majority of real world sentences simplydon't contain any of those explicit simple quanti-fier words.
* For this reason (among others) Bar-wise and Cooper (1981) suggested that the con-cept of simple quantiflers should be extended tothe concept of- gemern\]|~ed quant/fiers.
Theyshould take care of simple cases such as most menas well as of very complicated ones such as morethan half of John's arrows.
A generalised quanti-fer consists, in English, of a determiner (such as.
11 .
n most or more than half of ) and a set expres-sion in the form of a noun phrase (such as "men"or "John's arrows").
Determiners are some,e'~e~,  each, all, both, no, neither,  many, fev;,most, a few, one, etc.
However ,  even  now as izeable major i ty of sentences  in any real  wor ldtext would appear to lack quantification.
That'swhy  the most obvious determiners, viz.
the anda (plus zero) have to be included in this list.But that's also where a new set of problems origi-nates.
Articles have always caused problemswhen treated as quantifiers, and recently theseproblems have become increasingly' more difficultto ignore (Kamp 1981).1.3 PROBLEMS WITH THE INTERPKETAT ION OFART ICLES AS  QUANTIF IERSAgain we s tar t  with the most t rad i t iona l  v iew ofthe quest ion  how ar t i c les  could be in terpreted  asquant i f ie rs .
It saw both def in i te and indef initear t ic les  as ex is tent ia l  quant l f ie rs ,  with some addi -Uonal information in the case of the def in i tear t ic le .
It was pr imar i ly  this "addi t ional  in forma-t ion" which caused much d iscuss ion .
* or verb phrases such as "there is" - quite pos-sibly the only "real" existential quantifierEnglish has.I.
3. i Is the Definite Article an ExistentialQuantifier?Russell, in his classical analysis of the definitearticle (1905), maintained that a sentence such as1) The President of France is baldshould be interpreted as followsEXISTS X: (president_of_frence(X) ANDNOT(EX ISTS  Y: (presidant_of_frence(Y)AND NOT(X=Y) ) )  AND bald(X) )Here the "additional information" is given in theuniversal statement that X is the one and onlyPresident of France.
Strawson (1950) pointed outthat sentences such as 22) The king of France is baldwou/d simply be false irrespective of whether a)there was exactly one king of France but he wasnot bald, b) there was no king of France tobegin with, or c) there were several kings ofFrance.
Our  intuition tells us that in case a)sentence 2 would certainly be "simply false" butin cases b) and c) it would be false "in a diffe-rent way".
Strawson argued that Russell hadn'tmade the distinction between a sentence as suchand the statement made by the use of a sentence.Sentences such as example 2, uttered at the pre-sent time, and under condition a), were non-eva-luable (not Strawson's term) rather than false.They  may be evaluable, and even true, at otherpoints in time (or space, we might add).
A defi-nite noun phrase, then, does not assert the exi-stence of some object, it only refers to it, and indoing so it presupposes its existence.
In the samesense it doesn't assert the uniqueness of theobject referred to, either, it only presupposes it.Unfulfliled presuppositlons don't make sentencesfalse, they make them" non-evaluable, i.e.
thequestion of whether they are true or false doesn'tarise.
Whether the presuppositions of such asentence are fulfilled depends on the concretecircumstances, given by the context.Subsequently it was noticed that Strawson'sanalysis gave no satisfactory explanantion forcases such as 3, 4 and 5:3) The unicorn is a mythical creature.4) The lion is a dangerous animal.5) The dog is barking.In 3 we certainly don't presuppose the existence ofunicorns, but the sentence makes neverthelessperfect sense.
4 is actually the same casealthough the fact that lions do exist may obscurethis fact at first.
We obviously presuppose theexistence of the concept of unicorns and lions inthe listener's mind, but not the existence of theseanimals in the real world.Example 5 shows that definite noun phrasesdon't presuppose uniqueness of real objects,either.
5 makes perfect sense, in the appropriatecontext, but nobody would presuppose that thereis only one dog in the world.
The suggestionthat we could temporarily restrict the universe ofdiscourse to the point that it contains only onedog, precisely the one that is barking, is hardlyvery convincing on intuitive grounds alone, andfurthermore McCawley (1981:265) pointed out thatit would make sentences 6 and 6a equivalent,which they definitely are not.6) The clog likes all dogs.6a) The dog likes itself.It might be more appropriate to talk about uni-queness in a contextual domain (McCawley1981:265, expanding on Karttunen 1976; also Plat-teau 1980, Kamp 1981, Frey/l%eyla 1983) whosemembers are created by  the context, and are notnecessarily elementary real world objects (as inthe universe of discourse) but can be sets of realobjects, or possibly even purely notional objectssuch as concepts.As the problems of definite reference aretreated in-depth elsewhere in this volume(Berry-Rogghe) we will restrict ourselves to thisvery sketchy outline of the problem.
The mainpoint in this context is that any notion of thedefinite article having an existential quantifier asone of its components has evaporated along theway  from Russell's analysis to contemporaryviews.
Without additional sources o?
quantificationa considerable proportion o?
real world sentenceswould now appear to be merely un-quantified,meanlngless, expressions, which they certainlyaren't.
But it gets even worse.I.
3.9.
Is the Indefinite Article an ExistentialQuantifier?The  indefinite article seems, on the surface, tocause much less trouble than the definite article.Its interpretation as an existential quantifieralways looked quite straightforward.
However, itwas noticed (Kamp 1981) that indefinite articlessometimes must be represented as universal quan-riflers.
Prominent among these cases are the so-called donkey sentences, exemplified by sentences7 and 8.7) If Pedro owns a donkey he is rich.8) If Pedro owns a donkey he beats it.The trsditlonal, and most natural, representationof 7 is 7a7a) EXISTS X: (donkey(X) AND owns(pedro,X))IMPLIES rich(pedro).where the top-most syntactic connector of theEnglish sentence, i.e.
the conjunction "if", cor-responds to the top-most connector of the logicalform, i.e.
the implication.
However, if we applythe same schema mechanically to example 8 it willproduce the non-sentence 8a:8a) EXISTS X: (donkey(X) AND owns(pedro,X))IMPLIES beats(pedro, X).This is not a logical sentence because the variable"X" in the consequent is outside the scope of theexistential quantifier and remains unbound.
8must therefore be represented as 8b8b) ALL X: ((donkey(X) AND owns(pedro,X))IMPLIES beats(pedro, X))where the indefinite article is now represented asa universal quantifier.
Now we are in the mostunsatisfactory situation that we have to representtwo s~rntactically very similar surface sentencesby two radically different logical sentences, andthat the same noun phrase has to be mapped into9an existential quantifier one time, into a universalquantifier another time.If we try to consistently represent indefinitearticles as universal quantfflers we get 7b asrepresentation for 77b) ALL X: ( (donkey(X)  AND owns(pedro,X))IMPLIES r i ch(pedro) ) .which is indeed logically equivalent to 7a, but onpurely formal grounds.
The scope has been artifl-cially extended to span over terms without anyvar iab les ,  which certain/y runs very  much againstour intuit ion about the meaning of the or iginalsentence.
The conclusion cannot be avoided thateven the seemingly innocuous indefinite articlecannot be represented as a straightforward exi-stential quantifier.i.
4 COUNTEREXAMPLES:  MOST QUANTIFI~.RSARE IMPLICITHowever, if articles are no longer available asexplicit quantiflers we are in real trouble: Eitherall those Natural Language declarative sentencesthat do not contain any of the explicit quantifierexpressions ("most", "some", "there is" etc.
)cannot be represented as logical sentences at allfor their lack of quantification, or else we haveto find sources of ciuantiflcatlonal informationother than explicit quantifier expressions.
Now, ifwe look at sentences 9 to 14 we have to admit a)that they are reasonably normal sentences, b)that they contain no explicit quantifier expressi-ons, and c) that our intuition tells us neverthe-less that they are unambiguously quantified.9) A dog is eating meat.10) A dog eats meat.10a) Dogs eat meat.I i )  A man who loves  a woman i s  happy .12)  A man who loves  a woman respects  her .13)  A man who loves  a woman wi l l  E lve  her  a r ing .14) A man who loves  a woman wi l l  de fend  herag-ln~t an attacker .We think, therefore, and try to show in thispaper, that there must be many more sources ofquantificatlonal information in NL  than \]ust thetraditional, explicit, cases.
But the information isscattered over whole sentences, or even para-graphs, and must be combined to get a (more orless) reliable quantification for a sentence.This is a rather unattractive state of affairs:Traditionally, it was assumed that at least theform of quantifiers in hrL sentences was unproble-matical, and that we could concentrate right awayon the questions of their scope, monotonlcityetc., difficult enough in their own right.
If ourdiagnosis is correct, this is not so.
In the rest ofthe paper we will try to list some of the otherpossible sources of quantiflcational information inNL.
None of them will be of the "on/off"-variety;they are all more llke interacting forces resultingin a net force tipping the balance one way mr theother.
We will go through all the examples listedabove, considering slightly more complex cases aswe go along, and try to show how different theseseemingly similar examples ~really are as far astheir quantif~cati0n is concerned.?
..i2.2.1SOURCES OF  IMPLICIT QUANTIF ICAT ION INNATURAL LANGUAGESYNTACTIC  MEANS TO EXPRESSQUANTIF ICAT ION2.1 .
I Verba l  FormThe most important way  to determine the quantifi-cation of a sentence by syntactic ?
means isthrough the choice of the verb form.
This beco-mes particularly clear when we look at examples 9to 10a.
They  are striking cases in that 9 is aprototypical case of an assertion about an indivi-dual event and 10 and 10a are equally prototypi-cal universal ~ules.
However, it could be arguedthat the mass noun used ("meat") unnecessarilycomplicates the situation.
So let's replace themwith the perfectly regular examples 15 to 18.215) A text editor makes modifications to a textfile.16) A text editor is making modifications to atext file.17) A text editor made modifications to a text file.18) A text  editor  has made modifications toa text  f i le .In example 15 we say that a text editor makesmodifications to a text file in general, almost bydeflnltion.
We might read this sentence in asystem manual.
In 16 to 18 we say, on the otherhand, that there is, or was, a case of a texteditor making modifications to a text file.
Theseremarks might be made by a system operator,watching his screen.
In 16 to 18 we express, ofcourse, additional information about the temporalrelationships involved, but we will ignore them inthe present context, a Sweeping under the carpetthe question of how we would have to representthe sentence predicate we could, as a very firstapproximation, represent the example with theverb in the present tense, 15, as 15a and theexamples with verbs in either the past tense or inthe perfective or progressive aspect, 16 through18, as 16a:15a) ALL T: (text_edltor(T)IMPLIES makes_modlfications .... (T))16a) EX ISTS  T:(text_editor(T)AND makes_modifications .... (T)).We must quali fy these statements at once.I.
In many cases the future tense is prefer-red over the present tense for the kind ofgeneral statements given in example 15.
19is definitely more acceptable than 20:19) A man who loves  a woman wi l l  s t rokeher .20) A man who loves a woman strokes her.2 Here, and in all the other examples used, theindefinite singular could be replaced by theplural without any change in quantification.
Wewill , for  reasons of simplicity, use only s ingu/arexamples.10Dynamic verbs, such as "to stroke", seemto call for the future tense, whereas staticverbs, such as "to respect", seem to gobetter with the present tense.
The reasonfor this seems to be that static verbs donot require the future tense to expresstheir permanent validity, as their verymeaning as verbs of disposition etc.already conveys this  connotation.
Manyother verbs go either with the present orwith the future tense: "Oi l  floats onwater" is as acceptable as "Oil will float onwater".2.
The past tense can express a universallyquantified assertion, as in "A student readbooks when I was young", contrary towhat we said above.
However, for thisuniversal quantification to be possible thesentence requires a spatial or temporalpostmodifier, as the one printed in italics.The universal quantification is then notcontributed by the verbal form but ratherby the postmodifier; the present tense ofthe verb merely admits it.3.
The progressive aspect can express unl-versa/ quantification, as in "John is alwayscoming late".
Again, thls is only possibleit the quantification proper is contributed,~alulte explicitly by phrases such asways", "in general", "regularly" etc.The sentence is more emotional than theversion in the present tense.Ignoring all these exceptions we can formulate thetentative rules i%1 and 1%2 to sum up what theexamples considered so far seem to suggest.1%1) The subject of a sentence isexistentially quantified if the VP  isI.
in the past tense,2.
in the progressive aspect, or3.
in the reflective aspect.1%2) Otherwise the subject Is universallyquantified, in particular ff it is1.
in the present tense or2.
in the future tense.3 See des Tombe et al, this volume, for a tho-rough treatment of the problems connected withthe representation of temporal information.2.1.2 Restrictive ConstructionsOnce we have determined the quantification of thesentence subiect we have to do the same thing forall other sententlal components.
Examples Ii and12 for instance, repeated here for convenience,11) A man who loves a woman is happy.12) A man who loves a woman respects her.are variants of the donkey-sentences quotedabove (7 and 8).
There we had the problem thatthe object of the restrictive relative clause ("adonkey") had to be quantified existentially in thefirst case, and universally in the second, syntac-tically very similar, case.
Analogously, we mustnow determine how "a woman" is to be quantified.Again, intuition tells us that it is to be quantifiedexistentially in example ii but universally inexample 12.
However, how could we derive thisfundamentally different quantification from thesyntactically similar surface sentences?It's an intriguing observation that a simplechange in notation will make the problem go away.Instead of the Predicate Calculus representationlla and 12a with their different explicit quanti-fierslla) ALL M: (man(M) AND EXISTS W: (woman(W)AND loves(M, W))IMPLIES happy(M) )12a) ALL M:(man(M) IMPLIES (ALL W:(woman(W)AND loves(M,W)) IMPLIES respects(M,W))we represent 11 and 12 in Horn-Clause logic asllb and 12b:Ub)  happy(M) : -man(M),  woman(W), loves(M,W).12b) respects(M,W) :- man(M), woman(W),loves(M, W).Under  the standard interpretation of Horn-clauses(as in Prolog) a variable is implicitly universallyquantified if it appears on the left hand side of aclause, but existentially quantified if it appearsexclusively on the right hand side.
The intere-sting fact is that the Horn-clause representationsof the surface sentences are structurally as simi-lar to each other as the surface sentences are,and they differ exactly in the same way the sen-tences do.
The seemingly minor change from aintransitive verb phrase ("he is happy") to atransitive verb phrase referring to an element ofthe antecedent ("he respects her") turns an exi-.stential quantification ("any man is happy if therels a woman he loves") into a universal quantifica-tion ("any man respects any woman he happens tolove").
And  this is the quantification which virtu-ally "falls out" of the Horn-clause representationof theses sentences.It will be obvious that other restrictiveconstructions have to be treated the same way.Whether we say "a man loving a woman repectsher" or "a woman loved by a man adores him" or"a man respects a woman provided he loves her" -in each case we will have to represent theserestrictive expressions as right hand terms, asadditional conditions on the values of the corres-ponding variables.
We could therefore sketch thefollowing informal translation correspondences:111. the main verb (or the predicatively used?
~! )
,  noun or adjective, if the verb Is to be"i.e.
the grammatical predicate of the sen-tence becomes the logical predicate consti-tuting the clause head;2. an indefinite NP  becomes a predicate onthe right hand side of the the clause;3. pronominal reference is represented by theuse of the same variable name within oneclause :4. restrictive phrases ( restrictive relativeclauses, restrictive adiectlves, conditionalclauses) become additional terms on theright hand side of the clause.Using these straightforward translation rules, weget a representation of surface sentences wherethe correct quantification, in many  cases, "fallsout" of the Horn-clause representation.
In thesecases we can then say that an indefinite nounphrase corresponds neither to a universal nor toan existential quantifier but that its quantificationis a function of its position in the sentence.
Wewill soon see that this kind of nice one-to-onemapping is possible only in a few, simple, cases.
4If we try to sum up what we gleaned fromexamples Ii and 12 we could sketch a rule i%3:1%3) In a restrictive noun phrase those ofits arguments are universally quanti-fied that are referred to by the main verb;otherwise they are existenti-l\]y quantified.If we combine restrictive constructions with "exi-stentially quantiflying" verb forms, as in example2121) A text editor which made modificationsto a text file erased it,we notice that the quantification imposed by themain verb overrides the quantification suggestedby the restricitve construction.
Example 21 wouldhave to be represented somehow along the lines of21a: s21a) text_editor (editorl).text_file(filel).modifies(editorl, fflel, timel).erases ( editorl, filel, timel).before(timel, now).4 We do not propose that all natural languagesentences can be represented as (theHorn-clause version of) First Order PredicateCalculus sentences.
But it seems a sensible ideato start our search for sources of implicit quan-tificational information with those simple caseswhere it is possible.s Existentially quantified variables not in thescope of a universal quantifier are representedin Horn-clause logic as a system-generated con-stant, a so- called Skolem-constant, such as"filet".We thus have to modify i%1 to the effect that themain verb form enforces its quantification for alldependent values.2.1.3 Non-restrictive ConstructionsNearly all restrictive constructions of the typementioned in the last section have their non-re-strictive counterparts.
The restrictive relativeclause in example 22 has its counterpart inexample 23, where an additional pair of commas isthe only syntactic difference, although the mean-ing of the two relative clauses differs fundamen-tally.22) Swap space which is used for storing editorprograms is kept small.23) Swap space: which is used for storing editorprograms, is kept small.In 22, the restrictive relative clause adds, ofcourse, one mope restriction.
In 23, the non-re-strictive relative clause asserts additional informa-tion.
The author wants to make sure that thereader is aware of these facts, and that heabsorbs the information if it's new to him beforehe goes on reading.
Accordingly we would haveto represent these examples as 22a and 23a22a) kept_small(S) :- swap_space(S),used_for_storing_editers (S).23a) kept_small(S) ?
- swap_space(S).used_for_storing_editors (S) : - swap_space(S).We used the verb in the present tense to keepthe situation as simple as possible.
If we nowconsider the other possible case, with the verb inthe past tense or in one of the marked aspects,we will note that 24 is odd to the point of beingungranunatical, while 25 is perfectly normal.24) A text editor, used for making modifications toa text file, brought the system to a standstill25) A text editor used for making modifications toa text file brought the system to a standstillWe can consequently outline rule i%41%4) Non-restrictive constructions translateinto additional, universally quantified,assertions.Apart from the relative clauses and the redu-ced relative clauses in the preceding examples wecan find non-restrictive constructions in the fol-lowing cases :I.
Present participle :26) A text editor corrupting text fries isutterly useless.2V) A text editor, making it easy to modifytext files, is eminently useful.2.
Appositive constructions:28) A message that deleted files will be ex-unged by  the system will be displayedve minutes before expunging takes place.12L3.29) Another kind of m:%~ that thesystem is about , wil l  bedisplayed about one millisecondbefore it actually happens.30) My friend Peter was here last night.31) My friend, Peter, was here last night.32) A command to delete a file will beexecuted with pr ior ity.33) Another type of command, to save a file,will be postponed for  a few minutes.34) The decision whether to save or deletea f i le is normal ly made by  the user .35) Another decision, whether to crash ornot to crash, normally isn't.Prepositional phrases:36) A backup file on disk is immune fromthe effects of system crashes.37) A backup file, on disk, is immunefrom the effects of system crashes.In this case the non-restrlctlve variant,37, has a strong connotation of causality:" As the file is now on disk, it is immunefrom the effects of crashes".In all these cases the non-restrlctiveconstruction asserted additional universallyquantified information, although the appo-sitive constructions seem to cause moreproblems than the other cases.39a) pr ints(P,  C)bold_faced(C):-  centronics_printer ( P),character(C),escape_sequence(E) ,rece ives (P ,  E).
:- eantronics_printer(P),character (C),escape_sequence(E),receives ( P, E).In spoken language we could distinguish bet-ween the two readings of sentence 38 by means ofstress: The second reading (38b) could be enfor-ced by stress on the verb ("A Centronics printerwill PR INT  a bold_faced character") while an evenstress distribution on the whole verb phrase(",.. will PR INT  A BOLD_FACED CHARACTER")would make the first reading (38a) far more pro-bable.
In written language we could resort totopicalizers such as "even'r: "A Centronics printerwill even print a bold-faced character ...".
It isinteresting to note that even in examples 39 and40 which are quantiflcatlonally unambiguous forsyntactic reasons alone (39a) the stress is evenlydistributed on the verb "print" and the adjective"bold-faced" (or on the adverbial "in boldface",respectively).
As a matter of fact we could saythat stress in English virtually marks certainwords of a sentence as "to be represented asclause heads" in the Horn-clause translation ofthe sentence, with the consecmences for theirquantification we just outlined, v2.1.4 Adjectives as Object ComplememtsIf the verb of a sentence is a causative verb wecan express the quantification of its argumentvalues by the choice of the appropriate objectcomplement..
Example 38 is ambiguous as far asthe quantification of "a bold-faced character" isconcerned (the two readings are "will print somebold-faced character", 38a, and "will print anybold-faced character" it gets, 38b), whereas in 39and 40 the same expression is unambiguouslyquantified; both 39 and 40 are mapped into 39a,meaning "will print in boldface any character" itgets.
s38) A Centronics printer will print a bold-faced cha-racter whenever it receives an escape sequence.39) A Centronics printer will print a characterbold-faced whenever it receives an escapesequence.40) A Centronics printer will print a characterin boldface whenever it receives an escapesequence.38a) prints(P,skl(P,E)) :- oentrenics_printer(P),escape_sequence(E),receives(P, E).bold_faced(sk1(P,E)) : - centronics_printer(P),escape_sequence(E),receives (P,  E).character(sk i (P ,  E)) :- centronics_printer ( P ),escape_sequence (E),receives(P, E).38b) pr ints(P,C) :- centronics_printer(P),character(C), bold_faced(C),escape_sequence(E),rece ives(P ,  E).2.1.5 ConjunctionsIn the examples 38 to 40 we used the conjunction"whenever" instead of the neutral "if".
This isn'tquite unproblematical, as the choice of a conjunc-tlon may well have its own influence on the quan-tlflcatlon of some of the values in the sentence(s)involved.
However, the precise character of thisinfluence is unclear to us at the present time.
Inexample 41 the noun phrase "a student" somehowseems to have a "higher content" of universalquantification than 42.41) If a student knows the words of a text hecan translate it.42) When a student knows the words of a text hecan translate it.But the two subtly different interpretations seemto be possible only because both "he knows" andhe can are ambiguous: In 41 they can be readas "he already knows" and "he is capable of,knows how to", whereas in 42 they can be read.
H .
.
as has looked up/has found out and he may .s Existentially quantified variables in the scope ofa universal quantifier are represented assystem-generated functions, so-called Skolem-functions, whose arguments are the variablesover which these universal quantiflers range.v Phenomena such as the topic/focus-distinctionand stress/intonation are often considered aspurely styllstic in character.
The examples usedwill show that this view is often unjustified.The Prague school has, of course, alwaysemphaziaed that these linguistic means are oftenmuch more than "style".
See the most recentcontribution by the Prague school, Sgall 1984.132.2 SEMANTIC  MEANS TO EXPRESSQUANTIF ICAT ION2.2.1 Meaning and Type  of the VerbAlthough the syntactic means to express quantifi-cation can explain quite a few cases of "implicit"quantification there are cases where they are notsufficient.
Two such cases are examples 43 and44.43) A man who loves a woman will defend heragainst an attacker .44) A millionaire who is concerned about his a f ter -life will donate part  of his money to a char i tyIt is intuitively quite certain that we have torepresent these sentences in a fundamentally dif-ferent way, namely as 43a and 44a.43a) defends_against(M,W,A) : -man(M),  woman(W),loves(M, W),attacker (A, W ).44a) donates_to(M, sk l (M) ,sk2(M))  :-millionaire(M),concerned_about_one' s_afterl i fe (M).part_of_money(skl(M))  :-millionaire(M),concerned_about_one's_afterl l fe(M).charity (sk2 (M) :-miUionaire(M),concerned_about_one's_afterlife (M).The very meaning of "to defend" seems to enforcean universal quantification for both of thetwoobject values, whereas the meaning of "to donate"seems to create an existential quantification forits two object values.
We could, as a matter offact, paraphrase 44 as "If you want to find acharity, or if you want to see some money, allyou have to do is to find a millionaire with pangsof religion, and eventually you will see him givemoney to a charity".
The meaning of "to donate"implies that the person donating somethingalready has, or can easily get, whatever he dona-tes; he does not have to wait for it to come hisway.
Equally, the meaning of the verb impliesthat it will be a trivial task to find a taker forthe donation.
The meaning of "to defend", on theother hand, implies that the integrity of someoneor something is defended against any conceivablethreat, but only if and when a threat becomesvisible.
The same thing applies to the person etc.defended, hence both object values are univer-sally quantified (provided, of course, the form ofthe main verb permits it).2.2.2 Type of Direct ObjectThere are relatively few cases where the meaningof a verb will unambiguously determine the quan-tifiaction of its argument values.
One verb wherethis is certainly not the case is "to give".
It has(among others) the meaning of "to pass on some-thing if and when one gets it" and "to hand oversomething one already has" (in this sense it isalmost equivalent to "to donate").
It's these tworeadings which are unambiguously chosen inexamples 45 and 46, respectively, as is madeclear in their clausal representations 45a and 46a.45) Decent people will give lost andfound property to the police.46) Decent people will give presents to their poorrelat ives45a) give(D,P,poUce)  :- people(D), decent(D),lost_property (P) ,found(P) .46a) g ive(D,sk l (D ,R) ,R)  :-  people(D), decent(D),relatives ( R, D),poor(R).presents(skl(D,R)) :- people(D), decent(D),relatives(R, D),poor(R).Again, we can say that the very meaning of thenoun phrase "lost and found property" excludesan existential quantification.
You simply cannotfind something intentionally.
On  the other hand,a present is, by definition, something you makeor buy, i.e.
you virtually bring it into local (tothe recipient) existence, unless, of course, youpass on a present you got, which is considered inpoor taste in our societies.
This last pointbrings us to yet another source of implicit quan-tificatlonal information: Pragmatic information,including world knowledge, situation and dis-course context.2.3 PRAGMATIC  MEANS TO EXPRESSQUANTIF ICAT IONHere we will look at the last remaining example ofthe original collection, viz.13) A man who loves a woman will give her a ring.Here, the meaning of the direct object "a ring" isnot sufficient to determine its quantification.
Aring could be found and passed on to someoneone loves, as well as been bought and givenaway.
However, our world knowledge (rather thanour language knowledge) tells us that a mandoesn't normally have to wait until he finds aring if he really wants to give one to a cherishedperson.
He can go and buy one; there are ringsaffordable to just about anyone.
That's why  13awould be heavily favoured over 13b.13a) gives(M, skl(M,W),W) :- man(M), woman(W),loves(M, W).ring(skl(M,W)) -- man(M), woman(W),loves(M, W).13b) gives(M,R,W) :- man(M), woman(W),loves(M, W), ring(R).Similarly, discourse and situation context candetermine the quantification in otherwise ambigu-ous sentences, such as 47.47) This printer will print a bold-facedcharacter if you hit this key here.Here the situation context, as referred to by thethree demonstratives, seems to impose an existen-w ,!
.
tlal quantification on a character .
The sentenceclearly means that pressing the key referred towill immediately result in the creation of acharacter, which will also be in boldface.143.
CONCLUSIONThere are quite a few sources of "implicit" quan-tification in English, most of them syntactic, somesemantic, and a few pragmatic in character.
Someof them fall into the category of linguistic meansoften considered purely stylistic, such as thetoplc/comment-distlnctlon and stress/intonation.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTThis work was supported under Grant Nr.81.
703.0.79 of the Swiss National Science Founda-tion.4.
BIBLIOGRAPHYBarwlse,J./Cooper,R., 1981, Generslised Quanti-fiefs and Natural Language, in: Lingu-istics and Philosophy, 4 (1981): 159-219.Frey, W./Reyle, U., 1983, Lexical FunctionalGrammar und Diskursrepr~sentationstheorl eals Grund/age eines sprachverstahendenSystems,in: Lin~stische Berichte 88/83: 79-100.Oroenendljk, J., et al, 1981, ed., Formal Methodsin the Study of Natural Language, I,Amsterdam.Kamp, H., 1981, A Theory of Truth and Semanticl~.epresentation,in: Groenend/|k 1981: 277-322.Karttunen, L., 1976, Discourse l%eferents,in: McCawley 1976: 363-385.McCawley, J.D., ed., 1976, Notes from the Lingu-istic Underground, Syntax and Semantics, 7,New York: Academ/c Press.McCawley, J.D., 1981, Everything that Linguistshave always Wanted to Know about Logic,Oxford: Blackwell.Platteau, T., 1980, Definite and Indefinite Gene-rics, in: van der Auwera 1980: 112-123.l%ussell, B., On denoting,in: Mind, NS, 14 (1905): 479-493.Sgall,P., ed., 1984, Contributions to FunctionalSyntax, Semantics, and LanguageComprehension, Amsterdam: Benjamins.Strawson, P.F., On l~eferring,in: Mind, NS, 59 (1950): 320-344.9an der Auwera, J .
,  1980, ed.
,  The Semantics ofDeterminers, London: Croons Helm.15
