A PROBABILISTIC APPROACH TO GRAMMATICAL ANALYSISOF WRITT!N ENGLISH BY COMPUTER.Andrew David Beale,Unit for Computer Research on the ~hglish I,~_~Zt.zage,University of Lancaster, Bowland College,Bailrigg, Lancaster, England LA1 AYT.ABSTRACTWork at the Unit for Computer Researchon the Eaglish Language at theUniversity of Lancaster has been directedtowards producing a grammaticallys nnotated version of the Lancaster-Oslo/Bergen (LOB) Corpus of written BritishEnglish texts as the prel~minary stage indeveloping computer programs and datafiles for providing a grammaticalanalysis of -n~estricted English text.From 1981-83, a suite of PASCALprograms was devised to automaticallyproduce a single level of grammaticaldescription with one word tag representingthe word class or part of speech of eachword token in the corpus.
Error analysisand subsequent modification to the systemresulted in over 96 per cent of wordtags being correctly assignedautomatically.
The remaining 3 to ~ percent were corrected by human post-editors.~brk is now in progress to devise asuite of programs to provide aconstituent analysis of the sentences inthe corpus.
So far, sample sentenceshave been automatically assigned phraseand clause tags using a probabilisticsystem similar to word tagging.
It ishoped that the entire corpus willeventually be parsed.THE LOB CORPUSThe LOB Corpus (Johansson, Leech andGoodluck, 1978) is a collection of 500text samples, each containing about2,000 word tokens of written British~hglish published in a single year (1961).The 500 text samples fall into 15different text categories representinga variety of styles such as pressreporting, science fiction, scholarly andscientific writing, romantic fiction andreligious writing.
There are two mainsections: informative prose and imaginativeprose.
The corpus contains just over 1million word tokens in all.Preparatica of the LOB corpus inmachine readable form began at theDepartment of Linguistics and ModernEnglish Language at the University ofLancaster in the early 1970s under thedirection of G.N.
Leech.
Work wastransferred, in 1977, to the Departmentof English at the University of Oslo,Norway and the Norwegian Computing Centrefor the Humanities at Bergen.
Assemblyof the corpus was completed in 1978.~ne LOB Corpus was designed to be aBritish ~hglish equivalent of theStandard Corpus of Present-Day EditedAmerican mnglish, for use with DigitalComputers, otherwise known as the BrownCorpus (Ku~era and Francis, 196~; Haugeand Hofl-n~, 1978).
The year ofpublication of all text samples (1961)and the division into 15 text categoriesis the same for bo~h corpora for thepurposes of a systematic comparison ofBritish and American natural language andfor collaboration between researchersat the various universities.~brd Tagging o~ the LOB Corpus.~3~e initial method devised forautomatic word tagging of the LOB corpuscan be represented by the followingsimplified schematic diagram:WORD F0~S -, ~OTENTIAL WORD TAGASSIGNMENT (for each word in isolation)--> TAG SELECTION (of words in context)--> TAGGED WORD FORMSSample texts from the corpus areinput to the tagging system which thenperforms essentially two main tasks:firstly, one or more potential tags and,where appropriate, probability markers,are assigned to each input word by alook up procedure that matches the inputform against a list of full word forms,or, by default, against a list of one tofive word final characters, known as the'suffixlist' ; subsequently, in caseswhere more than one potential tag hasbeen assigned, the most probable tag isselected by using a matrix of Qne-steptransition probabilities giving thelikelihood of one word tag followinganother (Marshall, 1983: 1Alff).159The tag selection proceduredisambiguates the word class membershipof many common English words (such asCONTACT, SHOW, TALK, T~2~EPHONE, WATC~ and~ISPER).
Moreover, the method issuitable for disambiguating strings ofadjacent ambiguities by calculating themost likely path through a sequence ofalternative one-step transitionprobabilities.Error analysis of the method (Marshall,op.
cir.
: 1A3) showed that the system wasover 93 per cent successful in assigningand selecting the appropriate tag intests on the ~mning text of the LOBcorpus.
But it became clear that thisfigure could be improved by retaggingproblematic sequences of words prior toword tag disambiguation and, in addition,by altering the probability weightings ofa small set of sequences of three tags,known as 'tag triples' (Marshall, op.cir.
: 1~7).
In this way, the systemmakes use of a few heuristic proceduresin addition to the one-step probabilitymethod to automatically ~nnotate the inputtext.We have recently devised an interactiveversion of the word tagging system so thatusers may type in test sentences at aterminal to obtain tagged sentences inresponse.
Additionally, we aresubstantially extending and modifying theword tag set.
The programs and data filesused for automatic word tagging are beingmodified to reduce manual interventionand to provide more detailed subcategor-izations.Phrase and Clause Tagging.The success of the probabilistic modelfor word tagging prompted us to devisea similar system for providing aconstituent analysis.
Input to theconstituent analysis module of the systemis at present taken to be LOB text withpost-edited word tags, the output fromthe word tagging system.
We envisagean interactive system for the future.A separate set of phrase and clausetags, known as the hypertag set, has beendevised for this purpose.
A hypertagconsists of a single capital letterindicating a general phrase or clausecategory, such as 'N' for noun phrase or'F' for finite verb clause.
Thisinitial capital letter may be followedby one or more lower-case lettersrepresenting subcategories within thegeneral hypertag class.
For instance,'Na' is a noun phrase with a subjectpronoun head, 'Vzb' is a verb phrase withthe first word in the phrase inflectedas a third person singular form and thelast word being a form of the verb BE.Strict rules on the permissible:combinations of subca~egory symbols havebeen formulated in a Case Law Manual(Sampson, 198~) which provides the rulesand symbols for checking the output ofthe automatic constituent analysis.
Thedetailed distinctions made by thesubcategory symbols are devised with theaim of providing helpful information forautomatic constituent analysis and, forthe time being, many subcategory symbolsare not included in the output of thepresent system.
(For the current set ofhypertags and subcategory symbols, seeAppendix A).The procedures for parsing the corpusmaybe represented in the followingsimplified schematic diagram:WORD TAGGED CORPUS -~ T-TAG A~IGNFLENT(PARTIAL PARSE) -~ BRACKET CLOSING ANDT-TAG SELECTION -~ CONSTITUENT ANALYSISPhrasal ,nd clausal categories andboundaries are assigned on the basis ofthe likelihood of word tag pairs opening,closing or continuing phrasal and clausalconstituencies.
This first part of theparsing procedure is known as T-tagassignment.
A table of word tag pairs(with, in some cases, default values) isused to assign a string of symbols, knownas a T-tag, representing parts of theconstituent structure of each sentence.The word tag pair input stage of parsingresembles the word- or suffixlist look upstage in the word tagglnE system.Subsequently, the most likely string ofT-tags, representing the most probableparse, is selected by using statisticaldata giving the likelihood of theimmediate dominance relations ofconstituents.
Other procedures, which Iwill deal with later, are incorporatedinto the system, but, in very broadoutline, the automatic constituentanalysis system resembles word taggingin that potential categories (andboundaries) are first assigned and laterdisambiguated by calculating the mostlikely path through the alternativechoices.In the case of word tagging, the wordtagged Brown corpus enabled us to deriveword tag adjacency statistics forpotential word tag disambiguation.
Butno parsed corpus exists yet for thepurposes of derivln~ statistics fordisambiguating parsing information.A sample databank of constituentstructures has therefore been manuallycompiled for initial trials of T-tagassignment and disambiguation.160The Tree Bank~hen the original set of hypertags andrules was devised, G.R.
Sampson began thetask of drawing tree diagrams of theconstituent analysis of sample sentencesca computer print-outs of the word taggedversion of the corpus.
As tree drawingproceeded, amendments and extensions tothe rules for tree drawing and theinventory of hypertags were proposed, onthe basis of problems encountered by thelinguist in providing a satisfactorygrammatical analysis of the constructionsin the corpus.
The rationale for theoriginal set of rules and symbols, andof subsequent modifications, is documentedin a set of Tree Notes (Sampson, 1983 - ).So far, about 1,500 complete sentenceshave been manually parsed according to therules described in the Case Law Manualand these structu~res have been keyed intoan ICL VHE 2900 machine which representsthem in bracketed notation as four fieldsof data on each record of a serial file?The fields or col, lmns of data are:- (i)a reference number, (2) a word token ofsample text, (3) the word tag for theword and (~) a field of hypertags andbrackets showing the constituency-levelstatus of each word token.Any amendments to the rules and symbolsfor hypertagging necessitate correspondingamendments to the tree structures in thetree databank.The Case Law Manual.The Case Law Manual (Sampson, 198~) isa document that s,,mmarizes the rules andsymbols for tree drawing as they wereoriginally decided and subsequentlymodified after problems enccuntered by thelinguist in working through samples ofthe word tagged corpus.
I will only givea brief sketch of the principles containedin the Case Law Manual in this paper?Any sequence in the word tagged corpusmarked as a sentence is given a roothypertag, 'S' .
Between 'S' and the wordtag level of analysis, all constituentsperceived by the linguist to beconsisting of more than one word and, insome cases, single word constituents,are labelled with the appropriatehypertag.
Any clause or sentence tagmust dominate at least one phrase tagbut otherwise unary branching is generallyavoided.Form takes precedence over functionso that, for instance, in fact islabelled as a prepositio'~aT-~rase ratherthan as an adverbial phrase.
No attemptis made to show any paraphraserelationships.
Putative deleted ortransposed elements are, in general, notreferred to in the Case Law Manual, theexceptions to this general principlebeing in the treatment of some co-ordinated constructions and in theanalysis of constructions involving whattransformational grammarians callunbounded movement rules (Sampson, 198~:2).The sentences in the LOB corpus presentthe linguist with the enormously richvariety of English syntactic constructionsthat occurs in newspapers, books andjournals; and they also force issues -such as how to incorporate punctuationinto the parsing scheme, how to deal withnumbered lists and dates in brackets -issues which, although present andfamiliar in ordinary written language,are not generally, if at all, accountedfor in current formalized grammars.T-TAG ASSIGNMENTA T-tag is part of the constituentstructure immediately dominating aword tag pair, together with anyclosures of constituents that have beenopened, and left unclosed, by previousword tag pairs.
Originally, it wasdecided to start the parsing process byusing a table of all the possiblecombinations of word tag pairs, each withits own T-tag output.
Rules of thissort may be exemplified as follows:-cs  - =(N+I)  YBN-  J J  = J \ ]N  : T~UJ  : ?
\ ] \ [N(N+2) - RB = T J : Y\]\[R(N+3) VBG - RP = Y N : Y\]ERA word tag pair, to the left of theequals sign, is accepted as 5he inputto the rule which, by look-up, assignsa T-tag or string of T-tag options(separated by colons) as alternativepossible analyses for the input tag pair.In example (N), a subordinatingconjunction followed by a prepositionindicates that a prepositional phraseis to be opened as daughter of theprevious constituent (denoted by the'wild card' hypertag ' Y' ) ; in example(N+l), a past participle form of a verbfollowed by an adjective indicatesthree options :a. either close a previously openedadjective phrase and continue analready opened noun phrase or161b.
close a previously opened verbphrase and open an adjectivephrase orc.
close a previously opened verbphrase and open a noun phraseconstituent.In this way, the constituent analysisbegins by an examination of the~mmediately local context and aconsiderable proportion of informationabout correct parsing structure isobtained by considering the sequence ofadjacent word tag pairs in the inputstring.
In some cases, surplus inform-ation is supplied about hypertag choiceswhich later has to be discarded by T-tagselection; in other cases, word tagpairs do not provide sufficient clues forappropriate constituent boundaryassi~ment.
Word tag pair input shouldtherefore be thought of as producing anincomplete tree structure with surplusalternative paths, the remaining taskbeing to complete the parse by filling inthe gaps and selecting the appropriatepath where more than one has beenassigned.Cover S~mbols.For the purposes of T-tag look up,word tag categories have been conflatedwhere it is considered ~mnecessary tomatch the input against distinct wordtags; often, the initial part of aT-tag closes the previous constituent,whatever the identity of the constituentis, and specification of rules for everydistinct pair of word tags is redundant.This prevents T-tag assignment requiringan unwieldy 133 * 133 matrix.The more general word tag categoriesare known as cover symbols.
Theseusually contain part of a word tagstring of characters with an asteriskreplacing symbols denoting the redundantsubclassifications.
(See Appendix B fora list of cover symbols.
)Three stages of T-tag assignment.T-tag assignment is now divided intothree look-up procedures: (I) pairs ofword tags (2) pairs of cover symbols(3) single word tags or cover symbols,preceded or followed by an unspecifiedtag.
Each procedure operates in anorder designed to deal with exceptionalcases first and most general cases last.For instance, if no rules in (1) and (2)are invoked by an input pair of tags,where the second input tag denotes someform of verb, then the default rule -VB = Y\]\[V is invoked such that any tagfollowed by any form of verb closesthe constituent left ope n by a previousT-tag look-up rule (where 'Y' is a symboldenoting any hypertag).
Subsequently,a vet0 phrase is opened.If the first tag of the input pairdenotes a form of the verb BE, then therule BE-  VB = Y ?
in procedure (2) isinvoked.
Finally, if the first tag ofthe input pair is 'JJR', denoting acomparative adjective, and the secondtag is 'VBN', denoting the pastparticiple form of a verb, then the ruleJ JR -  VBN = Y J in (1) is invoked.The T-tag table was initiallyconstructed by linguistic intuition andsubsequently keyed into the ICL VNE 2900machine.
Comparison of results withsections of samples from the tree bankenables a more empirical validation ofthe entries by checking the output of theT-tag look up procedure against samplesof the corpus that have been manuallyparsed accordiug to the rules containedin the Case Law Manual.~here alternative T-tags are assignedfor any word or cover tag pair, theoptions are entered in order ofprobability and unlikely options aremarked with the token '@'.
Thisinformation can be used for adjustingprobability weightings downwards incomparison of alternative paths throughpotential parse trees.Reducing T-tag options.Some procedures are incorporated intoT-tag assignment which serve to reducethe explosive combinatorial possibilitiesof a long partial parse with severalT-tag options.
Sometimes, T-tag optionscan be discarded 4mmediately after T-tagassignment because adjacent T-taginformation is incompatible; a T-tagthat closes a constituency level thathas not previously been opened is not aviable alternative.
In cases whereadjacent T-tags are compatible, theassignment program collapses commonelements at either end of the optionsandthe optional elements are enclosedwithin curly brackets, separated byone or more colons.
Here is therepresentation in cover symbols andalternative constituent structures of thesentence, "~ei r  offering last nightdiffered little from their earlier acton this show a week or so ago. "
(LOBreference: C0~ 80 001 - 81 081).
Coversymbols and word tags appear in anglebrackets :\[ S \[N<DT*~N<N *>~3: ~ N<AP*> NCN*2\]\[ ?<VB *>Z R~R*~{ J :} P<IN>KN<DT*>N<J*>N<N*>~ : \ ] \ ] )~<IN> -_N<DT'~N<N*>~ \] ~: \] 3 IF: JR)ENd'< DT*>N<N*> IN+<CC>N~P*>U\]~ER<R*> : \[J<R*> :R<R*>~\]S~.
* >~162Gaps in the analysis.Since the T-tag selection phase of thesystem does not insert constituents, itfollows that any gaps in the analysisproduced by T-tag look up must be filledbefore the T-tag selection stage.
Byintuition or by checking the output ofT-tag assiEnment against the same samplescontained in the tree bank, rules havebeen incorporated into T-tag assignmentto insert additional T-tag data afterlook up but before probability analysis.~hen T-tag look up produces EPCN3(open prepositional phrase, open and closenoun phrase), a further rule isincorporated that closes the prepositionalphrase immediately after the noun phrase.Similarly, a preposition tag followed bya wh-determiner ~e.g.
with whom, to which,by whatever, etc) indicates that a finite~ause  should be opened between theprevious two word tags (whatever precedesthe preposition and the prepositionitself).Rules of this sort, which we call"heuristic rules", could be dealt with byincluding extra entries in the T-taglook up table, but since the constituencystatus is more clearly indicated bysequences of more than two tags, it isconsidered appropriate, at this stage, toinclude a few rules to overwrite theoutput from T-tag look up, in the same waythat heuristics such as 'tag triples'and a procedure for adjustiug probabilityweightings were included in the wordtagging system, prior to word tagselection, to deal with awkward casesthere.Long distance dependencies.Genitive phrases and co-ordinatedconstructions are particularly problematic.For instance, in The Queen of Ea~land'sPalace, T-tag loo~--~p is no'V, at present,a -~o establish that a potentialgenitive phrase has been encountereduntil the apostrophe is reached.
Weknow that a genitive constituent might beclosed according to whether the potentialgenitival constituent contains more thanone word.
Consequently a procedure mustbe built in to establish where the genitiveconstituent should be opened, if at all.Co-ordinated constructions present similarprob lens.T-TAG SELECTION AND BRACKET CLOSINGIt is the task of the final phase ofthe parser to fill in any remainingclosing brackets in the appropriate placesand calculate the most probable treestructure given the various T-tag options.The bracket closing procedure worksbackwards through the T-tag string,selecting unclosed constituents,constructing possible subtrees andassigning each a probability, usingimmediate dominance probabilitystatistics.
Each of the possible closingstructures is incorporated into thecalculation for the next unclosedconstituent; the bracket closing procedureworks its way up and down constituencylevels until the root node, 'S', hasbeen reached and the most probableanalysis calculated.T-tag options are treated in a similarmanner to bracket closing; probabilitiesare calculated for the alternativestructures and the most likely one isselected.Tmmediate dominance probabilities.A program has been devised to recordthe distinct immediate dominancerelationships in the tree bank for eachhypertag; the number of permissiblesequences of hypertags or word tags thatamy hypertag can dominate is stored in astatistics file.
At initial trials,this was the databank used for selectingthe most likely parse, but because thetree bank was not sufficiently largeenough to provide the appropriate analysisfor structures that, by chance, were notyet included in the tree bank, othermethods for calculating probabilities weretried ont.At present, daughter sequences aresplit into consecutive pairs and theprobability of a particular option iscalculated by multiplying probabilitiesof pairs of daughter constituents foreach subtree.
This method preventssequences not accounted for in the treebank from being rejected.
Samplesentences have been successfully parsedusing this method, but we acknowledge thatfurther work is required.
One problemcreated by the method is that, becauseprobabilities are multiplied, there is abias against long strings.
It isenvisaged that normalization factors,which would take account of the depth ofthe tree, would counterbalance thedistortion created by multiplication ofprobabilities.CONCLUSIONWe have found that the success ratefor gr~mmatically annotating the LOBcorpus using probabilistic techniquesfor lexical disambiguation is surprisinglyhigh and we have consequently endeavouredto apply similar techniques to provide aconstituent analysis.163Corpus data provides us with the richvariety of extant Eaglish constructionsthat are the real test of the grammarian'sand the computer programmer's skill indevising an automatic parsing system.The present method provides an analysis,albeit a fallible one, for any inputsentence and therefore the success rate ofthe tagging scheme can be assessed andwhere appropriate, improved.ACKNOWLEDG~M NTSThe author of this paper is one memberof a team of staff and researchassociates working at the Unit forComputer Research on the Eaglish Languageat the University of Lancaster.
Thereader should not assume that I havecontributed any more than a small part ofthe total work described in the paper.Other members of the team are R. Garside,G.
Sampson, G. Leech (joint directors);F.A.
Leech, B. Booth, S. Blackwell.The work described in this paper iscurrently supported by Science andEngineering Research Council GrantGR/C/47700.P~RENCESHauge, J. and Holland, K. (1978).
Micro-fiche version of the Brown Un ivers~Corpus o?
PTesent-Da~American Emglish.Bergen: NAVF's EDB-~enter forHumanistisk Forskning.Johansson, S., Leech, G. and Goodluck, H.(1978).
Manual of information toaccompany th, e Lancaster-Oslo/Ber~encor~us of British En~lishl for use withdlgltal computers.
Unpubllsheddocument: Department of English,University of Oslo.Ku~era, H. and Francis, W.N.
(196~, revised1971 and 1979).
Manual of Informationto accompany A Standard Corpus ofPresent-Day Edited American EaR l i sh ,for use with Digital Computers.Providence, Rode  Island: BrownUniversity Press.r~arshall, I.
(1983).
'Choice of GrammaticalWord-Class without Global SyntacticAnalysis: Tagging Words in the LOBCorpus', Computers and the Humanities,Vol 17, No.
3, 139-150.Sampson, G.R.
(198@).
UCREL Symbols and~ les  for Manual Tree-Drawing.Unpublished document: Unit for ComputerResearch on the English Language, ~ iversity of Lancaster.
983).
T~ee Notes I-XIV.
Unpublisheddocuments: Unit for Computer Researchon the Eaglish Language, University ofLancaster.APPENDIX AHypertags and Subscripts.~he initial capital letter of eachhypertag represents a general constituentclass and subsequent lower case lettersrepresent subcategories of theconstituent class.
The reader is warnedthat, in some cases, one lower caseletter occurring after a capital letterhas a different meaning to the sameletter occurring after a different capitalletter.A As-clauseD Determiner phraseDq beginning with a wh-wordDqv beginning with wh-ever wordE Existential TH2REFFaFcFfFnFrFsFinite-verb clauseAdverbial clauseComparative clauseAntecedentless relative clauseNominal clauseRelative clauseSemi-co-ordinating clauseG Germanic genitive phraseJ Adjective phraseJq beginning with a wh-wordJqv beginning with a wh-ever wordJr Comparative adjective phraseJx with a measured gradableL Verbless clauseMNfNiNumber phraseFractional number phrasewith ONE as headN Noun phraseNa with subject pronoun headNc with count noun headNe Emphatic reflexive pronounNf Foreign expression or formnlaNi IT occurring with extrapositionNj with adjective headNm with mass noun headNn with proper name headNo with object pronoun headNp Plural noun phraseNq beginning with a wh-wordNqv beginning with a wh-ever wordNs Singular noun phraseNt TinleNu with abbreviated unit noun headNx premodified by a measureexpressionP Prepositional phrasePo beginning with OFPq with wh-word nominalPqv with wh-ever word nominalPs Stranded preposition164Rl~vRrHxSS?sqTTbTf ~gTiTnTqUVVbVeVgViVmVnVoVpVrVzWXY,=Adverbial phrasebeginning with a wh-wordbeginning with a wh-ever wordComparative adverb phrasewith a measured gradableSentenceInterpolationDirect quotationNon-finite-verb clauseBare non-finite-verb clauseFOR-TO clausewith - ingpart ic iple as headwith ~ in f in i t i ve  headwith past participle headInfinitival indirect questionExclamation or GrammaticalIsolateVerb phraseending with a form of the verbBEcontaining NOTbeginning with an- in~participlewith infinitive headbeginning with AMbeglnning with a past participleSeparate verb operatorPassive verb phraseSeparate verb remainderwith distinctive 3rd persontenseWITH clauseNOT separate from the verb'Wild card'TAG_SUFFIXES for co-ordinatedconstructions and 'idiomphrases 'APPENDIX BCover SymbolsAB ?
Pre-qualifier or pre-quantifier( u i~ ,  rather, such , all, half,both .
.
.
.
)AP* Post-determiner (on~,  other, little,much, few, several, many, next,IW~T ...-U.BE* Grammatical forms of the verb BE(be, were, was, being, am, been,are, ~CD* Cardinal (one, two, 3, 195~-  60).DO* Grammatical forms of the verb DO(do, did, does).DT" Determiner or Article (this, the,any, these, either, ne i t -~ ,  a, n__~o;including pre-nominal possessivepronouns, her, your, my, our ...).HV" Grammatical forms of the verb HAVE,(have, had (past tense), have ,ha-~-Vpas-~participle ), has .
- -~J" Adjective (including attributive,comparative and superlativeadjectives : enormous, tantamount,worse, briEhtest ... ).N" Noun (including formulae, foreignwords, singular common nouns, withor without word initial capitals,abbreviated units of measurement,singular proper nouns, singularlocative nouns with word initialcapitals, singular titular nounswith word initial capitals,singular adverbial nouns andletters of the alphabet).P" Pronoun (none, anyone, everything,anybody, me, us, you: it, him, her,them, hers, yours, mlne, our___.~s,m-~I f  ,--~ems e - -~s  .
.
.
.
)P*A Subject Pronoun (I, we, he, she,they).R" Adverb (including comparative,.superlative and nominal adverbs :~ a '  delicately, better, least,irs, indoors, now~ then,to-ds~, here ...).RI" Adverb which can also be aparticle or a preposition (above,between, near, across, on, abou_.~t,back, out ...).VB" Verb form (base form, past tense,present participle, pastparticiple, 3rd person singularforms ).WD" ~h-determlner (whichl" what,whichever ... ).WP" Wh-pronoun (who, whoever, whosoever,whom, whomever, whomsoever ...
).
*S Plural form (of common nouns,abbreviated units of measurement,locative nouns, titular nouns,adverbial nouns, post determinersand cardinal numbers).
*$ Genitive form (of singulmr andplural common nouns, locativenouns with word initial capitals,titular nouns with word initialcapitals, adverbial nouns, ordinals,adverbs, abbreviated units ofmeasurement, nominal pronouns,post-determiners, cardinal numbers,determiners and wh-pronouns).165
