DISTRIBUTIVES, QUANTIFIERS AND A MULTIPLICITY OF EVENTSLesley Stif l ingSchool of Epistemics & Department of Linguist icsUniversity of Edinburgh2 Buccleuch PlaceEdinburgh EH8 9LW, U?K.ABSTRACTWith the intention of indicating sometemporal /event-theoret ic  characterist icsof distr ibutive clauses, a general isat ionis made over distr ibutives and clausesmarked for iterative aspect: two kinds ofsemantic phenomena which have normallybeen confined to separate theoreticaldomains.
It is shown that in particular,both give rise to an 'inferential setconstruction' problem.
An informaloutl ine is given of what might constitutesuch a generalisation.
The general isat ionis proposed intially on grounds of primafacie plausibil ity, but its ult imatedefensibi l i ty and explanatory value willdepend on the val idity of its consequence,that distr ibutive clauses entail amult ipl ic i ty of temporal entities orevents.
This proposal is considered withrespect to two types" of discoursephenomena; anaphoric reference to evententities, and temporal binding.
Theseprovide further support for making thegeneralisation, clarify its nature andindicate in what respect the entai lmentclaim can be true of distributives.
Theset construction problem is of practicalimportance for computational models ofnatural language interaction, and sincethe concept of iterated action is centralto planning, the general isat ion acrossiteration and distributives, along withthe observations about their nature, haveinteresting implications for work in thisarea.I.
DISTRIBUTIVESFirst, three points about the body ofphenomena called 'distributives'.
Theseare taken to be relativelyuncontroversial,  and are simply assumed inthe rest of this paper.
(i) Examples (a) and (b) in (I)i l lustrate the distr ibut ive/col lect ivedistinction.
Essentially, sentencescontaining at least one plural oruniversal ly quantif ied NP, the denotationof which might be regarded as a set, "caneither be read in terms of the individualmembers of this set  (as in la), or given a'group' reading in terms of the set as awhole (as in Ib).
(1)a The three girls each had apizza.
(dist)b The three girls shared apizza.
(coll)(ii) It is distr ibut ive readings whichgive rise to the possibi l i ty of quanti f ierscope ambiguit ies - includinginterpretations which involve dependencyrelations between the NPs in the sentence.Dependency interpretations in turn al low'inferential set construction' Considerexample (2).
(2) Mary gave each boy ~ booka ...and told him to look afterit.b They took them into the gardento read.On the most common reading of thedistr ibut ive clause Mary gave each boybook, there is a dependency relat ionbetween the two object NPs such thatbook is in the scope of each boy and theinterpretat ion of the former is relativeto that of the latter.
(2b) i l lustratesone type of anaphoric relation whichdistr ibut ive clauses may part ic ipate in:plural pronouns and definite NPs are usedto refer to implicit  sets of entit ieswhich instantiate variables introduced indistr ibut ive clauses by just such singularindefinite NPs in the scope ofdistr ibut ive NPs.
So in (2b) theunderl ined NP they refers to the set ofbooks such that Mary gave each one to someboy.As Webber (1979, 1983) has pointedout, this anaphoric possibi l i ty representsa practical problem for computationalaccounts of discourse, since a mechanism'is required for constructing as a16discourse  ent i ty a set wi th  the correctdescr ipt ion,  on the basis of the semant icrepresentat ion  of the in i t ia l  d i s t r ibut ivesentence conta in ing the s ingularindef in i te  NP.temporal  binding.
These support  thehypothes ised  genera l i sa t ion  and tel l  ussomething about  the temporal  or event-theoret ica l  s t ructure  of bothd is t r ibut ives  and i terat ives.Not ice that s ingular  anaphora  (as in2a) is also possible: the s ingular  anaphorindicates the maintenance of a rhetor ica lmode of 'genera l isat ion throughs ingular isat ion' ,  which is estab l i shed bythe init ia l  d is t r ibut ive  sentence.
Thepronoun it acts as a placeholder,s ign i fy ing a representat ive  member of theset of books such that Mary gave each oneto some boy, and it has the status of a'bound variable'  Such pronouns cannot betaken to refer and I descr ibe  the contrastbetween them and the plural  anaphors  asbeing that the plural  ones represent  a'referential '  or 'extensional'  cashing outof the init ia l  semantic value.
(iii) Sentence (2b) also indicates theposs ib i l i ty  of us ing  a plural  pronoun -th@y - to refer to some re levant  set ofboys (in contrast  to (2a) where thesingular,  'bound variable'  pronoun him isused).
However, it is not rea l ly  necessaryto propose a second a lgor i thm to constructsuch sets because the init ial ,syntact ica l ly  s ingular  d is t r ibut ive  NPs,such as eac h bow, are arguably  a lmosta lways themselves 'referential '  and'anaphoric',  ~ust in the sense that therange of quant i f i cat ion  is rest r ic ted bycontext.
Here, the quant i f ier  does notrange over the set of al l  boys, but oversome otherwise speci f ied subset \['host' or'witness set' - Barwise & Cooper, 1981\] ofboys.
It can be paraphrased with thepart i t ive  expression: each of the bows.My intent ion in this paper is toexplore a temporal,  event -or ientedperspect ive  on d ist r ibut ives.
Thequest ion at issue is: What are theconsequences for the temporal  or event-theoret ica l  analys is  of a clause, of itsbeing 'distr ibutive' in the sense def ined?F irst  I indicate s imi lar i t ies  betweend is t r ibut ives  and c lauses marked withi terat ive aspect.
I then make certa inobservat ions  which apply to bothd is t r ibut ives  and iterat ives,  concern ingtwo kinds of d iscourse phenomena: def in i teNP anaphora  to event entit ies, andone Iaspectual  Iparameter  IIThe observat ions  made in this paperare conf ined to the past tense and to'telic' or 'bounded' s i tuat ion  types(Mourelatos, 1981).2.
ITERATIVESThe fo l lowing are examplesi terat ive  c lauses in English:of(3)a Each day Mary wrote a letterto her sister.b Every t ime John went abroadhe bought a souvenir.c Vesuv ius  erupted threetimes.I terat iv i ty  is an aspectua l  parameterwhich in Engl ish  is marked main lyadverbia l ly ,  wi th  the presence of what arecal led ' frequency adverbials '  or ' temporalquant i f ie rs '  (under l ined in the examples) .I terat ive markers  on a c lause indicate therepet i t ion  of the event descr ibed in theclause, and a lso prov ide in format ion  aboutthe f requency of repet i t ion.
The keyrequ i rement  is couched in terms of anenta i lment  condit ion: i terat ives  entai lthat there was more than one occas ion oneach of which an event of type E occurred,where 'occasion' is def ined asspat iotempora l  location.
So there is anecessary  requ i rement  of seauent ia l i ty :that the events in quest ion  occurred ond i f ferent  occasions,  in sequence.3.
GENERAL ISAT IONOn the basis of the descr ipt ions  g ivenin sect ions I and 2 we can argue for agenera l i sat ion  over d is t r ibut ives  andi terat ives such as is represented inF igure I (cf.
Forsyth, 1970: 154).Imult ip le  act ions (repet i t ion Iof a s ituat ion) \]Isingle ac t ion /s i tuat ioni terat ive'd is t r ibut iveF igure I. Genera l i sa t ion  over d is t r ibut ives  and i terat ives.17There are a number of intuit ivearguments for the prima facie plausibi l i tyof such a generalisation, two of whichwill be considered here.First, it is clear that from one pointof view, distr ibutives and iterativesdiffer just in the nature of what isquantif ied over: distributives, where themarking of repetit ion is normally on theNP, involve quantif icat ion overindividuals, while the temporal adverbialexpressions in the iterative examples arenormally taken to involve quanti f icat ionover times or events.
That is, theiterative markers can be seen asintroducing distr ibutive quantif ication.Secondly, perhaps the strongestargument for general isat ion is thatinferential set construction occurs withiteratives.
Some iteratives, likedistributives, contain indefinite NPswhose instantiations may vary across therepetit ion of the event.
~ sQuvenir inexample (4), and a letter in example (5)are just such NPs.
(4) EverYtime John went abroad hebought A souvenir.a Sometimes it was a silver tea-spoon, sometimes an antique vase.b They just lie around the house,cluttering it up.
(5) Each day, Mary wrote ~ letterto her sister.a It was usually ten pages long.b They were chatty letters.The solution to the set construct ionproblem should if possible be a generalone, covering both distr ibut ive anditerative cases.The ult imate defensibil ity, andexplanatory value, of making such ageneral isat ion will depend on whether itaccurately reflects the facts about thetemporal or event-theoretical  structure ofdistr ibut ive clauses.
It was said thatare customari ly defined asentail ing a seauence o_~f events, eachassociated with a di f ferent occasion orspatiotemporal location.
A general isat ionof the kind envisaged would suggest thatdistr ibutives might be regarded as havingsuch an entai lment as well, and thequestion we have to consider is whetherthis is so.Certainly, some distr ibutives clearly ?involve mult iple occasions, that is,spatiotemporal locations.
For example(6a), where it's one and the same bookwhich is lent, and (6b).
(6)a Mary lent each boy the book.b John visited each of hisaunts.On the other hand, take an examplelike (2) above (Mary gave each boy~9~)o  This could easily describe asingle occasion of giving, taking placeonce only.
One could even imagine Maryhanding a book to each of two boyssimultaneously, with either hand.
Orconsider (7), on the interpretat ion whereit was the same message and I did it onone occasion.Iteratives such as these manifest thesame scope ambiguit ies as distr ibutivesand are open to the same mechanism of 'setconstruction' which as we saw operates indistr ibutive clauses on the NPs which aredistr ibuted over.
So in (4), ~ ~is in the scope of a restricted universalquanti f icat ion over times, and thesentence in question could be fol lowed by(b) where they refers to the set ofsouvenirs such that John bought each oneon some trip abroad.
(4a) and (5a) showthat something like the 'bound variable'anaphora of example (2a) is possible heretoo  \[I\](7) Yesterday I sent each studenta message via computer mail.Intuit ion is clearly not enough, andin sections 4 and 5 we shall considerevidence from the discourse phenomenamentioned earlier, but first, what wouldconstitute such a general isat ion overiteratives and distr ibutives: ageneral isat ion which would indicate theirsimilarit ies and differences, and providea way in which the entai lment of mult ipletemporal entit ies/events could be said tobe true of distr ibutives?\[I\] The expression 'variable binding',tradit ional ly taken to describe an in-trasentential  phenomenon, is used with aless restrict ive sense in this paper.18event: ---*par t ic ipant  I*par t ic ipant  2*par t ic ipant  n*spat io tempora l  locat ionR\['daily' ininterval  tr\]event: 'writing'*par t i c ipant  I*par t ic ipant  2'Mary''her sister'l 'part ic ipant  3 'a letter' II Il *spat iotempora l  locat ion t II vlFigure 2.
'Case' spec i f i ca t ion  \[2\]We can regard a c lause as providing,at one level of descr ipt ion,  a natter~ ortemnl~t@, with spec i f i ca t ion  of an eventtype with respect  to p laceho lders  for thefo l lowing elements: one or morepart ic ipants ,  and spat io tempora l  location.F igure 2 is the ske leton of such templatesor 'case spec i f icat ions ' ,  which wil l  bef leshed out for ind iv idual  clauses.D is t r ibut ive  and i terat ive  markers  a l ikethen contr ibute  the fo l lowing informat ion:- first, that  there are mul t ip leins tant ia t ions  of this pat tern  rather  thana s ingle instant iat ion;- and, in con junct ion  wi th  othergrammat ica l  features of the clause, theyprovide in format ion  about  which of theseelements  remain constant  across suchins tant ia t ions  and which are var iable.For example, take the sentence Eachday, Mary wrote ~ letter  to her s ister(Figure 3).
This spec i f ies  aevent type which (as ind icated by 'R') isrepeated ly  instant iated.
Two of thepart ic ipants ,  Mary and her sister, remainconstant  across these repet i t ions.
Theother  part ic ipant,  the letter, var ies andwil l  be instant ia ted by a (possibly)d i f fe rent  ent i ty  on each occas ion  ofrepet i t ion.
There is a lso var ia t ion  inthe spat io tempora l  element.
This e lementis represented here by the t ime variable,~\[me whi le t represents  the re ference' ?
r of the I terated complex as a whole.It is w~th r~spect  to this second kindof informat ion,  about  which of thee lements vary, that i terat ives  andd is t r ibut ives  differ.
In i terat ive  butnot in d i s t r ibut ive  c lauses thespat io tempora l  locat ion wil l  necessar i lybe among those e lements which arevariable;  other e lements may a lso vary ifthey are introduced by express ions  in ascopal  dependency re lat ion  with thetemporal  quant i f ier  phrase?
In\[2\] 'Case' in the sense of Lewis(1975) rather than F i l lmorean Case Gram-mar.F igure 3.
Case spec i f i ca t ion  fo rEach day, Mary wrote ~ letter  to her sister.d is t r ibut ives ,  at least one of thepar t i c ipant  e lements  must  vary - the onein t roduced by the d i s t r ibut ive  NP - and inadd i t ion  so may other elements,  inc lud ingspat io tempora l  location, if they are in adependency  re lat ion  with this NP.
If noother  par t i c ipant  e lement  is in adependency  re lat ion with the d i s t r ibut iveNP, that  is if all other par t i c ipantelements  are held constant,  then var ia t ionin spat io tempora l  locat ion wil l  entai l ,  asin example (6a).
Which  e lements  varyte l ls  us which in ferent ia l  sets toconstruct.The s imi lar i t ies  between the in formalproposal  which  has just been sketched andLewis?s  (1975) account  of tempora lquant i f ie rs  in terms of cases wi l l  beobvious.
Lewis def ines a case as an n-tup le  of its par t ic ipants  (i.e.
the valuesof free var iab les  in the sentence) and at ime coord inate  \[the 'case spec i f icat ions 'represented  above inc lude in add i t ion  anevent  type label, such as 'writ ing'\].
Heargues that i terat ive  markers  invo lvequant i f i ca t ion  over cases rather  than overt imes or events.
My proposal  could bein terpreted as a c la im that we can extendsome vers ion  of a case analys is  to inc luded is t r ibut ives:  these, too, would be takento invo lve quant i f i ca t ion  over cases.Quant i f i ca t ion  over t imes or par t i c ipantswould then represent  par t icu lar  ways ofrea l is ing the mul t ip le  ins tant ia t ion  ofthe case.
The advantages of an accountsuch as this are that it a l lowsgenera l i sa t ion  over a wide var ie ty  ofphenomena, inc lud ing numerous ways ofmark ing  i terat ion  or d i s t r ibut ion  on theclause, and that it prov ides anappropr ia te  level of descr ip t ion  to bereferred to in account ing  for d i scourseanaphor ic  relat ions.The quest ion  of the ind iv iduat ion  ofevents is a cont rovers ia l  one, and theterms 'event' and 'event type' have so farbeen used rather  loosely.
Suppose wef i rst  fo l low Moure latos  (1981) in making ad i s t inc t ion  between events and thespat io tempora l  locat ions with which theyare assoc iated,  and secondly, suggest  that19events should be regarded as par t icu larins tant ia t ions  of case spec i f i cat ions  ofthe type descr ibed.
Then i terat ivesentai l  a mul t ip l i c i ty  of cases /events  +spat io tempora l  locat ions (which are insome isomorphic  re lat ionship) ,  whereasd is t r ibut ives  l ikewise entai l  amul t ip l i c i ty  of cases/events ,  but mere lya l low the poss ib i l i ty  of mul t ip lespat io tempora l  locat ions (i.e., events andspat io tempora l  locat ions may not be in ani somorph ic  re lat ionship)  - as we shal lsee, in the case of any par t icu lard istr ibut ive,  this quest ion  may bereso lved by fo l lowing anaphor ic  reference.v is i t  s ign i f ies  a representat ive  event  ofthe type descr ibed:(10) John v is i ted  each of hisma iden  aunts, but the v is i t  d idn ' tmake h im popular  with any of them.A second type of s ingular  anaphoraoccurs, as in (11): in this case theanaphor ic  pronoun that  appears  to refer  tothe whole  d i s t r ibut ive  episode, of Johnv is i t ing  each aunt, descr ibed  in thepreced ing  clause.4.
ANAPHORIC REFERENCE TO EVENTS(8) John v is i ted each of hisgreat  aunts.a The v is i ts  were much apprec ia tedby the old ladies.b These ~ were a source oftorment  to him.
(9) Everyt ime John went to Namib iahe v is i ted an old friend.a He found the v is i ts  d ist ress ing.b He was upset on these Q~casions,Examples (8) and (9) ind icate  thatafter  a d i s t r ibut ive  or i terat ive  clause,speakers can refer us ing a p lura l  def in i teNP, to a set of ent i t ies  which aresomething l ike 'events' or 'occasions' andwhich appear to cor respond to the'd i s t r ibut ive  or i terated s i tuat ion  of thepreceding clause.
Note thetwo types ofexample (a and b): in the first, thecommon noun head of the anaphor icexpress ion  is a nomina l i sa t ion  of the verbin the antecedent  sentence (such NPs arenormal ly  taken to refer to evententit ies);  in the second the noun is amuch more general  one.
Both k inds ofexample appear to represent  a phenomenonof the same type as the in ferent ia l  setconst ruct ion  descr ibed in sect ion I: it isas if the in i t ia l  d i s t r ibut ive  ori terat ive  c lause introduces an 'event'var iab le  and the anaphor ic  NPs represent  are ferent ia l /ex tens iona l  cashing out ofthis.Cont inu ing the paral le l  wi th  anaphor icreference to nomina l ly - in t roducedentit ies,  example (10) shows that  wi threspect  to event ent i t ies  too, s ingularanaphor ic  NPs occur which are of the'bound variable'  type.
Thus in (10) the(11)  John v is i ted each of hisaunts.
Tha___~t was a thought fu l  th ingto do.F inal ly,  examples  (12) and (13) showthat, a l though plural  def in i te  NPs can beused to access the set of events oroccas ions  resu l t ing  fromd is t r ibut ive / i te ra t ive  c lauses (as in (8)and (9)), p lural  pronouns cannot.
In (12)they and ~hem can only be in terpreted  wi thre ference  to the aunts - compare the samesentences wi th  the pronouns rep laced bythe NP the visits.
Exp lanat ion  of this,wh ich  there is not space to e laboratehere, must  take account  of the obviousfact  that  a requ i rement  of nomina l i sa t ionis involved.
Meanwhi le  the impor tantpoint  to note  is the c lear  d i s t inc t ionbetween the d i s t r ibut ion  of de f in i te  NPand pronominal  anaphors.
(12) John v is i ted each of hisaunts.a * They were a d ismal  fai lure.b * He had a good t ime on al l  ofthem.c * Each of them went  well.
(13) John f lew to Paris twice.a He en joyed both trips.b the enjoyed both of them.Example  (11) shows that  s inaularpronominal  re ference  does occur, but thisseeming incons is tency  may be exp la ined interms of the nature of the ent i ty  be ingreferred to: the plural  NPs seem to referto events whereas the s ingular  ones referto 'facts' or 'proposit ions'  (in the senseof the d i s t inc t ion  argued for in Vend ler(1967)).
\[3\]\[3\] There is c lear ly  much more to be205.
TEMPORAL B INDING PHENOMENAFirst  it is necessary  to rev iew someclaims of theor ies of temporal  reference.Cons ider  the fo l lowing example:(14) When John made the cake, hebroke the oven.Whe~, l ike other 'temporalconnect ives'  such as before and after,ind icates a part icu lar  re la t ionsh ipbetween the two  c lauses it connects:normal ly  such re lat ionsh ips  are cons ideredto consist  in spec i f i cat ion  of there lat ive order ing in t ime of the twoevents descr ibe~ by these clauses.
Thebasic  claim, then, is that suchconnect ives give a spec i f i cat ion  of a kindof 'temporal binding' between the twoc lauses such that the reference t ime ofone is dependent  on that of the other.This c la im is independent  of thepart icu lar  nature of the order ing orb inding hypothesised.
(This idea isc lear ly  on a par wi th  c laims that  certa intemporal  phenomena should be understood onanalogy with nominal  anaphora, for examplethat the (past) tense morpheme should betaken to refer to a time, and to receiveits reference either from some antecedenttense morpheme in the text, or from someadverbia l  expression, or de ict ica l ly .
)Kamp (1979), Hinr ichs (1982> andPartee (1984), who subscr ibe to ad iscourse theory of temporal  (ordering)relations, argue that (in narrat ivediscourse) the reference t ime of any mainc lause wil l  be dependent  on that of thepreceding clause; that is, that just thesame kinds of temporal  b indingdependenc ies  occur at the level ofdiscourse, between clauses which aresyntact ica l ly  independent  as wel l  asbetween those which are l inked by temporalconnect ives.With this background, we can cons iderc l&uses which involve iteration, marked bytemporal  quant i f icat ion,  in add i t ion  totemporal  connect ion of the type justdescr ibed.
For example (15).
(15) When Max left the office, healways turned the l ights off.It seems that such sentencessaid wi th  respect  to the phenomena exam-ined in this section; this wi l~ be dealtwith in for thcoming work.const i tute  a b ind ing or dependency,between two c lauses descr ib ing  d is t inc ttypes of event, which puts a cond i t ion  onthe pai rwise mapping of ins tant ia t ions  ofsuch events.
Thus, in this case, everyevent of Max leaving the of f ice  is said tohave been pai red with (at least one) eventof his turn ing the l ights off.
This k indof dependency  re lat ion  seems to be exact lyparal le l  to that which holds between thed is t r ibut ive  NP each qirl  and theindef in i te  NP ~ book in Mary qave each~ book.
In terms of the schema inF igures 2 and 3, b ind ing is of thetemporal  var iab le  t of c lause one, and v the t v of c lause two.Not ice  that the when c lause rest r ic tsthe range of the i terat ive quant i f ie ra lways in the fo l lowing clause.
Examplesl ike (15) are a special  case of temporalquant i f i ca t ion  in that the condi t ion  onthe range of quant i f i ca t ion  is exp l i c i t l ystated in the subord inate  clause.
But itis true in general  that tempora lquant i f ie rs  l ike alwaTs or each t ime donot range over al l  of time, but over somecontextua l ly  f ixed interval.
They thusconform to the c la im made in sect ion Ithat d i s t r ibut ive  NPs normal ly  have theirrange of quant i f i ca t ion  rest r ic ted  to someotherwise -spec i f ied  'witness set' Thereference t ime t of F igure 3 representsthis kind of wi tness set.The main point  to be made in thissect ion is that d is t r ibut ive  clauses, wi thno expl ic i t  temporal  quant i f icat ion,  cana lso act as sources for temporal  binding,~and rest r ic t  the  range  of subsequenttemporal  quant i f icat ion,  in just the sameway that the i terat i~e c lauses do.
Hencewe find examples l ike (16) and (17).
(16) Mary gave each boy a book.Somet imes the boy thanked her, butmore of ten he did not.
(17) Harry inv i ted each of hisre lat ives to stay.
On each occa-s ion he bought  in enough food tofeed an army.Here, the range of the quant i f ie rphrases sometimes, mote of ten and on eachis rest r ic ted by the set ofevents determined by the preced ingd is t r ibut ive  c lause - that is, bysometh ing l ike the set of ins tant ia t ionsof the case speci f icat ion,  perhaps morespeci f ica l ly ,  ins tant ia t ions  of thetemporal  var iable  t .
There is b ind ingbetween the  event~ descr ibed in the twosentences: in (16) some of the 'times'(occasions) on which Mary gave Some boy a21book are such that the boy in quest ionthanked her; in (17) each occas ion  onwhich Harry\ [s  re lat ives came to stay ispaired with an event of his buying in lotsof food.Example  (18), which is f rom aun ivers i ty  l ibrary photocopy ing machine,is exact ly  para l le l  to the tempora l lyquant i f ied  and connected example g iven in(15).
Here, each plays the same role asa lways does in (15).
(18) P lease wait  unt i l  mach ine  iscomplete ly  s i lent  before insert ingeach 5p coin.This example is ( theoret ical ly)ambiguous in the scope of the d i s t r ibut ivemarker:  does the f i rst  c lause represent  acondi t ion  for the i terated event, so thatwe are to wait  unt i l  the machine is s i lentand then insert  all the 5ps one afteranother, or is it part  of an iteratedcondi t ion  + event sequence, so that oneach occas ion of inser t ing  5p, we mustwait  unti l  the mach ine  is s i lent  f irst?
(In actual i ty,  it is of course the secondreading which is intended.
)Now cons ider  the fo l lowing examples,wi th  another  temporal  connect ive,  then.
(19) Mary gave each boy a book.a Then she marked his name Offher l ist ashav ing  rece ived it.b Then she d ismissed them.
(20) Everyt ime John went  abroad hebrought  back a souvenir.a Then he put it in the cupboardwith the rest of them.b Then he stopped going abroad andthrew them all  away.These examples ind icate  that  thein i t ia l  d i s t r ibut ive  or i terat ive  sentencecan be v iewed ei ther  in terms of its uni tyas a complex situation, or in terms of theconst i tuent  phases which that totalcompr ises (cf.
examples (8) and (11) insect ion 4).
Hence in (19) the re ferencet ime of (b), the dismissal ,  wi l l  be afterthe complet ion  of the complex event ofg iv ing out books, (in terms of the casespec i f i ca t ion  in F igures 2 and 3 the t of(b) wi l l  be af ter  the t of the in i t ia lsentence).
In contrast,  t~e sequence in(19a) is such that the then c lause is 'inthe scope of' the d i s t r ibut ive  and thereis a pa i rwise  b ind ing between the eventtype of g iv ing out a book and the eventtype of mark ing  off a" name, such that eachins tant ia t ion  of the former wi l l  befo l lowed by an ins tant ia t ion  of thelatter.
That  is, there i s  a tempora lo rder ing  cond i t ion  on the tempora lvar iab les  t of the two clauses.
Thewhole  sequence wi l l  have the same t ;overa l l  re ference t ime or 'witness set r.If we regard temporal  connect ives  asind icat ing  a re la t ionsh ip  def ined overre ference  times, then we are put in thepos i t ion  of racogn is ing  two poss ib i l i t i eswi th  respect  to d i s t r ibut ive / i te ra t ivesentences:  these seem to invo lvesometh ing l ike 'nested re ference  t imes',with the order ing re lat ion  being able tohold over e i ther  t v or t r, Cons ider  a lsoexamples  (21) and (22).
(21) Mary gave each boy a book.a On each occas ion  the boythanked her.b On that  occas ion they weregratefu l  to her.
(22) John v is i ted each of hismaiden aunts.
Each one gave him acup of tea.Example  (22) is par t i cu la r lyinterest ing,  because we have a sequence oftwo c lauses which  are not syntact i ca l lyl inked by a temporal  connect ive,  andne i ther  of wh ich  conta ins  a tempora lquant i f ie r  phrase.
Yet there is animpl icat ion  that  there is a pa i rw isedependency  re lat ion  between teas andvis its.
The genera l i sed  b ind ingre la t ionsh ip  appears  to hold across  thesentence boundary,  just as Kamp, H inr ichsand Partee postu lated wi th  respect  toorder ing  re lat ions  between c lausesdescr ib ing  s ingle rather than repeateds i tuat ions.
Any analys is  of this d i scoursewhich ass igns each sentence a s ing lere ference time, and which then, fo l lowingHinr ichs  and Partee, requires that there ference  t ime for the second fo l low thatof the first, wi l l  g ive the wrong results.\[4\]The observat ions  which  have been madeev ince a c lose ana logy with the facts of\[4\] Their  response to this might  bethat  we are not here dea l ing wi th  narra-t ive d iscourse,  a denial  which is morep laus ib ly  made of ear l ier  examples,  oreven (19) or (20), than it is of (22).22,nominal  anaphora which were out l ined insect ion 1 of the paper.
The (a) examplesin (19), (20) and (21) in each caserepresent  something l ike maintenance  ofthe binding: we are sti l l  spec i fy ing thetype of the event sequence which isi terated, and all the c lauses in thesequence have the same t ; re ference t imeor witness set.
In the (~) examples, onthe other hand, the descr ip t ion  of thei terated event is f inished: there is ad iscourse- leve l  d iv is ion  between theinit ia l  d i s t r ibut ive / i te ra t ive  sentenceand sentence (b), represent ing the end ofthe rhetor ical  mode of genera l i sa t ion-through-s ingular isat ion,  and c losure ofthe interval  t .
One ind icat ion of thisis that any p~onouns occurr ing in the (b)sentence, and anaphor ic  to d is t r ibut iveNPs or their dependent  express ions in thef irst  sentence, wil l  necessar i ly  beplural.
The use of a plural  NP, which asI have said represents ' referent ialcashing out', ind icates that the i teratedsequence is over and we can now assume itscomplet ion  and move on.
In contrast,  inthe (a) sentences anaphor ic  pronounsreferr ing to ent i t ies which wereintroduced by the nominals  in thed i s t r ibut ive / i te ra t ive  sentence, arenormal ly  singular.6.
CONCLUSIONSThe anaphor ic  examples in sect ion 4show that both d is t r ibut ive  and i terat iveclauses enable subsequent  reference tosets of cases/events  using a def in i te  NP.This is c lear ly  paral le l  to theposs ib i l i ty  of using a plural  anaphor ic  NPto make reference to some set ofind iv iduals  (such as books), on the basisof an or ig inal  s ingular  NP introduct ion.It would seem to be des i rab le  to accountfor both kinds in terms of the samemechan ism of 'set construct ion' .
Theanaphor ic  examples also indicate aqua l i tat ive  d i f ference between thed is t r ibut ion  of def in i te  NP and pronominalanaphora, and show that there is d iscourseanaphor ic  access not just to the subpartsof the d is t r ibuted or i terated situation,but also to something l ike the wholed i s t r ibut ive  quant i f icat ion,  which may bean ent i ty of a d i f ferent  kind.The temporal  b inding phenomena ofsect ion 5 give a d i f ferent  type ofev idence for the exp lanatory  value ofmaking a genera l i sat ion  of the kinddescr ibed.
The observat ions  in thissect ion also show that, whereas past tensec lauses descr ib ing  a s ingle s i tuat ion havea reference t ime with some speci f ictemporal  referent,  d i s t r ibut ive  andi terat ive c lauses seem to require 'nestedre ference times', w i th  temporal  o rder ingre lat ions def inab le  at two levels.
TheKamp/H inr i chs /Par tee  account  needs to bemodi f ied  before it is able to incorporatethese phenomena.I 've said that the set const ruct ionproblem is of pract ica l  importance forcomputat iona l  models  of natural  languageinteract ion.
In addit ion,  the concept  ofi terated act ion is important  to planning,so that a genera l i sa t ion  acrossd is t r ibut ives  and i terat ives  plus what hasbeen said about  their  temporal  natureshould have in terest ing  impl icat ions  inthis area.
If i terat ion is handledcomputat iona l ly  by sett ing up a loop whichembodies the inst ruct ion to repeat  anact ion under certa in  condit ions,  thend is t r ibut ives  may be handled the same way.D is t r ibut ive  and i terat ive  in terpretat ionsmay hold over stretches of d iscourse,  thede l imi ta t ion  of which is re levant  to thein terpretat ion  of temporal  connect ives,and as we saw with examples (19) to (21),in some cases anaphor ic  phenomena may giveclues about  this de l imitat ion,  that ,is,ind icat ing when to turn off the i terat iveloop.
The de l imi ta t ion  of such d iscoursechunks corresponds to the de l imi ta t ion  ofthe extent  of in f luence of the t or'witness set', and so anaphor~ info l lowing sentences may a l low us to c loseoff this interval.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis paper results  from researchtowards a PhD which has been supported bya grant from the Assoc ia t ion  ofCommonweal th  Univers i t ies .
Thedeve lopment  of the ideas presented herehas benef i t ted  cons iderab ly  from theoppor tun i t ies  for s t imulat ing d iscuss ionprov ided by the School 'of  Ep is temics  Tenseand Discourse Workshop.
I am par t i cu la r lygratefu l  to the fo l lowing people forhelpful  comment on ear l ier  vers ions of thepaper: Mark Steedman, Marc Moens, HenkZeevat, Ewan Klein, Han Reichgelt ,  BarryRichards,  J im Mil ler, Jan de Vuyst, DavidMcCarty, J im Hurford.23REFERENCESBarwise, Jon & Cooper, Robin (1981)'Generalised quantif iers and naturallanguage' Linuuistics and Philosophy 4,159-219.Forsyth, J.
(1970) A qrammar of  aspect.C.U.P.Hinrichs, Erhard (1982) 'Temporalanaphora in discourses of English'Unpublished.Kamp, Hans (1979) 'Events, instants andtemporal reference' in Baeuerle et al(eds) ~ from ~ points ofview.
Berlin: Springer, 277-322.Lewis, David ( 1975 ) ' Adverbs ofquantification' in E.L. Keenan (ed)Formal ~ of natural  lanuuaae.C.U.P.
, 3-15.Mourelatos, Alexander P.D.
(1981)'Events, processes and states' in Syntax~pd s emantic~ vol 14: Tense and aspect.N.Y.
: Academic Press, 191-212.Partee, Barbara Hall (1984) 'Nominal andtemporal anaphora' Linuuistics andPhilosQphv 7, 243 - 86.Vendler, Zeno (1967) Linuuistics inphilosophy.
Ithaca: Cornell U.P.Webber, Bonnie Lynn (1979) ~ formalaPProaCh to ~ ~ .
TheHague: Mouton.Webber, Bonnie Lynn (1983) 'So what canwe talk about next?'
in M. Brady and R.C.Berwick (eds) Computational mo~els ofdiscourse.
Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT Press,331 - 71.24
