TOWARDS AN AUTOMATIC IDENTI~ICATION 0F TOPIC AND FOCUSEva HaJi~ov~ and Petr SgallPaculty of Mathematics and PhysicsCharles UniversityMalostransk~ n. 25118 00 Pr -~-  1CzechoslovakiaABSTRACTThe purpose of the paper is (i) tosubstantiate the claim that the outputof an automatic analysis should representamong other things also the hierarchy oftoplc-focus articulation, and (ii) topresent a general procedure for determin-ing the toplc-focus articulation in Czechand English.
(i) The following requirements on theoutput of an automatic analysis aresignificant:(a) in the output of the analysis itshould be marked which elements of theanalyzed sentence belong to its topic andwhich to the focus$(b) the scale of communicative dynamism(CD) should also be identified for everyrepresentation of a meaning of the -n-ly-zed sentence, since the degrees of CDcorrespond to the unmarked distributionof quantifier scopes in the semanticinterpretation of the sentences(c) the analysis should also distinguishtoplcless sentences from those hav~nga topic, which is relevant for the scopeof negation.
(ii) For an automatic recognition oftopic, focus and the degrees of CD, two~ oints are crucial: a) either the input language has(a considerable degree of) the so-calledfree word order (as in Czech, Russian),or its word order is determined mainlyby the grammatical relations (as inEnglish, Prench);(b) either the input is spoken discourse(and the recognition procedure includesan acoustic analysis), or written (print-ed) texts are analyzed.In accordance with these points,a general procedure for determiningtopic, focus and the degrees of CD isformulated for Czech and English, withsome hints how the preceding contextcan be taken into account.le We distinguish between the l@velof l~u is t i c ,mean ing  (de Saussure sand HJe~mslev s "form of content",Cosieru s "Bedeutung", others "literalmeaning") and its interpretation in thesense of truth-conditional, intensionallogic (see Materna and Sgall, 1980~Sgall, 1983).Por some purposes of automatic treat-ment of natural l~n~uage (includingmachine translation) it is sufficientif the output of the procedure ofanalysis is more or less identical withthe representation of the (linguistic)meaning of the sentence.
For otherpurposes, such as that of full naturallanguage comprehension, it is necessaryto go as far as the semantic (truth--conditional) i~terpretation, usinga notation that includes variables,operators, parentheses and similar means.The topic-focus articulation (TFA) isunderstood as one of the hierarchies ofthe level of meaning, whose other twohierarchies are that of dependency syn-tax (close to case grammar) and that ofcoordination (and apposition) relations.The basic task of a description of TPAis to handle the differences betweensuch sentences as John gave Mary a BOOK.John ~ave a book to ~t%RY.
It was ~RYJohn nave a book.
It was a"~P~-~'~--John gave to Mary.
It was JOHN who gaveMary a book.
It was JOHN who gave a bookto ~-~V- (Capitals denotethe positionof the intonation center.
)In Fig.
I we present a simplifiedrepresentation of one of the meaningsshared by the sentences in which theintonation center is placed on BOOK;Fig.
2 corresponds to one of the mean-ings shared by the sentences with theintonation center on ~LARY.The following requirements on theoutput of an automatic analysis aresignificant, whatever approach to thedescription of the structure of thesentence has been chosen:a) In the output of the analysis itshould be marked which elements of theanalyzed sentence belong to its topic263givet-PretJ o h n t _ A ~ o ~ _ S p e c i f y i n g _ O b j e c t i v eFigure I.
A simplified representation of one of the meanings of the sentences Johngave Mary a BOOK.
It was a BOOK what John Kave to r,~ry.
The superscr~indicates that the given occurrence of the lexical -n~t is included in thetopics the left-to-right ordering of the nodes corresponds to the scale ofcommunicative dynamism.i~t -P retJohnS.Actor ~ar~-AddresseFigure 2.
A simplified representation of one of the mean~n=s of John ~ave a book(= one of the books) to MARY.
It was MARY (to Whom) John zave a book.and which to its focus, since this is re-levant as for which questions can beanswered by the sentences thus e.g.
(I)can answer (2) and (3), while (4) can beanswered by (5) rather than by (I).
(I) John talked to few girls aboutmany PROBLEMS.
(2) How did John behave?
(What aboutJohn?
)(3) About what did John talk to whom?
(4) To whom did John talk about manyproblems?
(5) John talked about many problemsto few GIRLS.Note that in (I) the verb as well asthe Addressee belong to the focus in someof the readings, while in others they areincluded in the topic; in (5) the Addres-see belongs to the focus and Objective tothe topic in all readiags, only the pos-ition of the verb here being ambiguous(this can be checked by tests includingnegation and by the question test, seeSgall etal .
,  1973).b) The scale of communicative dynamismor CD (ibid.)
should also be identifiedfor every representation of a meaning(underlying structure, etc.)
of the anR-lyzed sentence, since the degrees of CDcorrespond to the unmarked distributionof quantifier scopes in the semantic in-terpretation of the sentence; thus in (I)and (6)the Addressee includes a quantifi-er with a wider scope than that of theObjective (on the primary reading), whilein (5) and (7) the quantifier of the Ob-Jective includes the Addressee in itsscopes(6) It is JOHN, who talked to fewgirls about many problems.
(7) It is JOHN, who talked about manyproblems to few girls.c) The analysis should also distingu-ish topicless sentences (corresponding,~n the prototypical %ases, to Kuno sneutral description or to the theticJudgements of classical logic) from tho-se having a topic; this difference isrelevant for the scope of negation: only(8)(b) is semantically equivalent to Itis not true that fo~ is falling, wher~sin (9)(b) the subject, included in thetopic, is outside the scone of negation;a more appropriate paraphrase is= ShoutPather it is not true that he xs coming.
(8)(a) POG is falling.
(b) No FOG is falling.
(9)(a) Father is COMING.
(b) Pather is not COMING.2.
It has been found (HajiEov~ andSgall, 1980 and the writings quoted the-re) that the scale of CD coincides to agreat part with Chomsky (1971) calls"the range of permissible focus".With the elements belonging to thefocus the scale of CD is determined bythe kinds of complementation (deep cases~the order always being in accordancewith what we call systemic ordering; forthe main participan%s of the verb in264English this ordering is Time - Actor -- Addressee - Objective - Origin - Ef-fect - Manner - Instrument - Locative(see Seidlov~, 1983).
The scale of CDdiffers from this ordering only if atleast one of the elements in question be-longs to the topic (this is true aboutthe Addressee in (10)(b),about the Originin (11)(b), and about the Effect in 412)(b) below):(10)(a) I gave several children a fewAPPLES.
(b) I gave a few apples to severalCHILDREN.
(11)(a) John made a canoe out ofa LOG.
(b) John made a CANOE out ofa log.
(12)(a) John made a log into a CANOE.
(b) It was a LOG John made intoa canoe.Thus, in the (b) sentences a few ap-ples, ~ and a canoe are contextuallybound, standing close to a few of thoseone o f  the  lo~s ,  the  canoe webout, respectively.
In the (a) ex-amples the rightmost complementations be-long to the focus (they carry the intona-tion center), while the complementationsstanding between them and the verb areambiguous in this respect: in some mean-ings of the sentence they are contextual-ly bound and belong to the focus; a simi-lar ambiguity concerns also the verbs inall the examples.Systemic ordering is language specific;Czech differs from English e.g.
in thatit has Time after Actor and Object afterInstrument; for more details, see Sgall,Haji~ov~ and Panevov~ (in press, Chapter3).3.1 Pot an automatic recognition oftopic, focus and the degrees of CD, twopoints are crucial:(A) Either the input is spoken dis-course (and the recognition procedure in-cl~des an acoustic analysis), or written(printed) texts are analyzed.
(B) Either the input language has(a considerable degree of the so-calledfree word order (as in Czech, Russian),or its word order is determined ma~n!y bythe grammatical relations (as in English,Prench).Since written texts do not indicatethe position of the intonation center andsince the "free" word order is determin-ed first of all by the scale of CD, it is,!
,, evident that the either cases in (A)and (B) do not present so many difficult-ies for the recognition procedure as the"or" cases do.A written "sentence" corresponds, ingeneral, to several spoken sentenceswhich differ in the placement of theirintonation center.
Thus, I/ an adverbialof time or of place stands at the end ofthe sentence, as in (13), then at leasttwo sentences may be present, see (14)(a)and (b), where the intonation center ismarked by the capitals;the TFA clearlydiffers:(13) We were swimming in the pool inthe afternoon.
(14)(a) We were swimming in the poolin the AFTERNOON.
(b) We were swimming in the POOLin the afternoon.In languages with the so-called freeword order this fact does not bring aboutserious complications with technicaltexts, since there is a strong tendencyto arrA-ge the words so that the i~tona-tion center falls on the last word of thesentence (if this is not enclitical).3.2 A procedure for the identificationof topic and focus in Czech written(first of all technical) texts can thenI be formulated as follows:(i)(a) If the verb is the last wordof the surface shape of thesentence (SS), it always be-longs to the focus.
(b) If the verb is not the lastword of the SS, it belongseither to the topic, or to thefOCUS.Note: The ambiguity accounted for by therule (i)(b) can be partially resolved(asp.
f?r the purposes of practicalsystems) on the basis of the features ofthe preceding sentence: if the verb ?
ofthe analyzed sentence is identical withthe verb of the preceding sentence, orif a relation of synonymy or inclusionholds between the two verbs, then V be-longs to the topic.
Also, a semanticallyweak, general verb, such as to be,to become, to carry out, can-Y~ders toodas belonging to the topic.
In othercases the primary position of the verb isin the focus.
(ii) The complementations precedingthe verb are included in thetopic.
(iii) As for the complementations fol-lowing the verb, the boundaryIThe term oomplementation (sentencepart) is used in the sense of a subtreeoccupying the position of a deep case oran adverbial.
- We disregard the so-call-ed subjective order here, since Gincontrast to English) in a Czech writtentechnical text such sentences asThe SWITCH was off are extremely rare.265between topic (to the left) andfocus (to the right) may bedrawn between any two complemen-rations, provided that those be-longing to the focus are arrang-ed in the surface word order inaccordance with the systemico rder~.
(iv) If the sentence containsa rhematizer (such as even,also, only), then in tHeprimary~-~ the ~omplementation follow-ing the rhematizer belongs to thefocus and the rest of the sent-ence belongs to the topic.
23.22 Similar regularities hold for theanalysis of spoken sentences with normalintonation.
However, if a non-flnalcomplementation carries the intonationcenter (IC), then(a) the bearer of the IC belongs tothe focus and all the complement-ations standing after IC belongto the topic;(b) rules (ii) and (iii) apply for theelements stand~-g before the bear-er of the intonation center~(c) the rule (i)(b) is applied to theverb (if it does not carrythe IC).
33.31 As for the identification oftopic and focus in an English writtensentence, the situation is more complic-ated due to the fact that the surfaceword order is to a great extent determin-ed by rules of grammar, so that intona-tion plays a more substantial role andthe written form of the sentence displaysmuch richer ambiguity.
Por English textsfrom polytecbn~cal and scientific domainsthe rules stated for Czech in 3.21 shouldbe modified in the following ways:(i)(a) holds the surface subjectof the sentence is a definiteNP; if the subject noun has|2This concerns such sentences as Hereeven a device of the first type can e~used; in a secondary case the rhematizermay occur in the topic, e.g.
if thesentence part in its scope is repeatedfrom the preceding co-text.3However, an analysis of spoken dis-course should pay due respect not onlyto the preceding co-text, but also to thesituation of the utterance, i.e.
to itscontext in the broader sense.an indefinite article, thenthe subject mostly belongs tethe focus, and the verb to the rtopic; however, marginal caseswith both subject and verb inthe focus, or with subject(though indefinite) in thetopic and the verb in thefocus are not excluded}(i)(b) holds, including the rules ofthumb contained in the note)(ii) holds, only the surface sub-~ect and a temporal adverbialcan belong to the focus, ifthey do not.have the form ofdefinite NP s~(iii) holds, with the followingmodifications:(a) If the rlghtmost complementationis a local or temporal adverbial, thenit should be checked whether its lexicalmeaning is specific (its bein~a proper name, a narrower term,or a termnot a belongin~ to the sub~ect domain ofthe given text)or general (a pronoun,a broader term); in the former case it isprobable that the adverbial bears IC andbelongs to the focus, as in (15) and (16)while in the latter case it rather be-longs to the topic, as in (17) or (18),where the word method probably carriesthe IC~(15) Several teams carried outexperiments with this methodduring a single week.
(16) Several teams carried outexperiments with this methodIn Berkeley and Princeton.
(17) Several teams ... method duringthe last decades.
(18) Several teams ... method inthis country.
(b) If the verb is followed by morethan one complementation and if thesentence final position is occupied bya definite NP or a pronoun, this right-most complementation probably is not thebearer of IC and it thus belongs to thetopic.
(c) If (a) or (b) apply, then it isalso checked which pair of complement-ations disagreeing in their word orderwith their places under systemic order-ing is closest (from the left) to ICi.e.
to the end of the focus)i theboundary between the (left-hand part ofthe) topic and the focus can then bedrawn between any two complementationsbeginning with the given pair.3.32 If a spoken sentence of Englishis analyzed, the position of IC can bedetermined more safely, so that it iseasier to identify the end of the focusthan with written sentences and the266modifications to rule (lii) are no longernecessary.
The procedure can be based onthe regularities stated in 3.22.4.
Whenever the preceding context canbe taken into account in the analysis,the salient (activated) items (seeHaJi~ov~ and Vrbov~, 1982) should be re-gistered.
A "pushdown" principle can beused: the item mentioned as the (lastpart of the) focus of the last utteranceis the most salient in the given time--point of the discourse, while the elem-ents that were mentioned in other posit-ions of this utterance get a lowerstatus in the activated part of thestock of shared knowledge, and thosethat have not been mentioned in one orseveral subsequent utterances may fadeaway (if they do not have a specificposition of a "hypertopic", which con-cerns e.g.
those mentioned in a heading).Thus it can be decided in some of the un-clear cases (e.g.
with temporal adverbi-als, see point (iii) in 3.31) whethera complementation belongs to the topicor to the focus.
This method has itslimits: the set of activated items shouldinclude not only items mentioned in thetext, but also their parts, counterpartsand other items connected with them byassociative relations; on the other side,if a specific kind of contrast is involv-ed, it is possible that also an item in-cluded in this set is mentioned as a partof the focus of the next utterance.5.
A procedure of automatic identific-ation of topic and focus has been in-corporated, to a certain degree, in theparser for Czech implemented in Colmer-auer s Q-language on EC-I040 (compatiblewith IBM 360) and briefly described byPanevov~ and Sgall (1980), Panevov~ andOliva (1982).
The prototypical cases oftopic-focus articulation are also cover-ed by the English parser designed and im-plemented (using the same programming to-ols and hardware) by Kirschner (1982) asa part of the Engllsh-to-Czech machinetranslation project.Both parsers account also for morecomplex sentences than the examples quot-ed in this summary~ in some such casesthere are embedded sentence parts thathave (partial) topics and loci of theirowD~Both in translation and comprehensionthe topic-focus articulation should bepaid due respect to, since - as we haveseen in Sect.
I - it is relevant not onlyfor an appropriate use of a sentence indifferent contexts, but also for truth--conditional interpretation, especiallyof sentences with certain kinds ofquantification and with negation.REFERENCESChomsky, N. (1971), Deep Structure,Surface Structure and Semantic Inter-wretation, in: Semantics (ed.
byD.D.Steinberg and L.A.Jakobovits),Cambridge, 193-216Haji6ov~, E. and P. Sgall (1980),A Dependency-Based Specification of Topicand Focus, SMIL, Noel-2, 93-140.HaJi~ov~, E. and J. Vrbovl (1982), Onthe Role of the Hierarchy of Activationin the Process of Natural Language Under-standing, in: COLING 82, ed.
by J. Horec-k@, Amsterdam, 107-113.Kirschner, Z.
(1982), A Dependency--Based Analysis of English for the Purposeof Machine Translation, in: ExpliziteBeschreibung der Sprache und AutomatischeSprachverarbeitung IX, Prague.Materna, P. and P. Sgall (1980),Functional Sentence Perspective, theQuestion Test and Intensional Semantics,SMIL, No.
I-2, 141-160.Panevov~, J. and K. 01ira (1982), Onthe Use of Q-Language for SyntacticAnalysis of Czech, in: Explizite Beschrei-b,,~ der Sprache und Automatische Sprachvel-arbeitung VIII, Prague, 108-117.Panevov~, J. and P. Sgall (1980), OnSome Issues of Syntactic Analysis ofCzech, Prague Bulletin of Mathem.
Linguis-tics 34,21-32.Seidlov~, I.
(1983), On the Under-lying Order of Cases (Participants) andAdverbials in English, Prague Bulletinof ~athem.
L~u is t i cs  39, 53-64.Sgall, P.,Haji~ovl, E. and J.Panevov~(in press), The Meaning of the Sentencein Its Semantic and Pragmatic Aspects,D.
Reidel-Dordrecht and Academia-Prague.Sgall, P. (1983), On the Notion of theMeaning of the Sentence, Journal ofSemantics 2, 319-324.Sgall, P., HajiSov~, E. and E.Bene?ov~(1973), Topic, Focus, and GenerativeSemantics, Kronberg/Taunus.267
