INTERPRETING SINGULAR DEFINITE DESCRIPTIONS IN DATABASE QUERIESGenevieve Berry-RoggheDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceTemple UniversityPhiladelphia, PA 19122USAABSTRACTThe paper examines some of the cha-racteristic features of natural langua-ge interaction with a database systemand its implications for the processingof singular definite descriptions.
Someproposals are made for assessing theuniqueness claim of the singular defini-te article in the context of retrievalfrom a relational database.
Other stan-dard assumptions such as the extensio-nal evaluation and referent evaluationexclusively in the database - ratherthan within the discourse model - arecritically examined.INTRODUCTIONA comprehensive treatment of the phe-nomenon of singular definite descriptionin natural language processing constitu-tes a research program par excellence inthe field of cognitive science.
Not onlydoes it involve the various cognitivedisciplines but also the integration ofthe traditional levels of analysis, na-mely the syntactic, semantic and pragma-tic levels as well as including a "per-formance" or processing level dealingwith mechanisms for memory managment ofreferring expressions.
Linguistic theo-ries initially attempted to account forthe syntactic conditions of well-formed-ness governing the introduction of sin-~ular definite nounphrases in sentencesby postulating co-referentiality with apreviously occurring indefinite noun-phrase having the same referential in-dex.
But it became clear that the postu-lated requirements of co-referentialitycould only be adequately stated by meansof an extended notion of "discourse re-ferent" (see Karttunen 1968 b).Logicians and philosophers of languagesince Russell have studied problems ofreference and of the logical form of re-ferring expressions occurring in variouscontexts (for a selection, see Linsky1971).
But it was pointed out in Donnel-lan 1966 that a strictly truthfunctionalanalysis of singular definite expres-sions may in certain situations evaluateto a referent which was not intended bythe speaker.
Accounting for the inten-tions of the speaker introduces the prag-matic point of view of referring as aspeech act (see Searle 1966).
How thespeaker proceeds in describing an objects/he has in mind so that it may be cor-rectly identified by the hearer and howthe hearer perceives the intentions ofthe speaker to accordingly process des-criptions has been the object of psycho-logically oriented research in the areaof definite reference (e.g.
Clark/Mar-shall 1981 and Ortony-Anderson 1977).
InArtificial Intelligence, research on de-finite descriptions has mainly proposedcomputational models to resolve anapho-ric reference by postu21ating certain in-ference mechanisms (e.g.
Charnlak 1972and Rieger 1974) or mechanisms for detec-ting and managing dialogue focus (e.g.Grosz 1981 and Sidner 1979).Considering practical applications inthe computer processing of natural lan-guage it may be said that next to noneof this large body of research has beenincorporated.
Most natural languagefront-ends to a standard database systemsupport none or very primitive referenceresolution and treat the singular defini-te article as an existential quantifier.This state of affairs has frequently beenmotivated by the objection that most ofthe aforementioned research is not yetable to meet the challenge of a computa-tionally efficient solution.
It is hopedthat such objections, though justified,\[see for example Berwick 1985) will dimi-nish in the course of time.
More tellingare objections relating to the nature ofthe natural language interaction with adatabase system which is alleged to con-stitute a restricted discourse environ-ment not displaying the more sophistica-ted features of natural dialogue.
Thepresent paper critically examines somecharacteristics of such interactions withrespect to the processing of definitedescriptions and investigates to what ex-tent the research findings aluded to abo-ve ought to be incorporated.
The paper isintended to give an overview of the pro-213blem domain rather than to offer concre-te solutions ; in fact its aim is topoint out areas where fruitful researchis still outstanding.REFERRING TO DATABASE OBJECTSIn a relational database an indivi-dual entity is defined by a unique tup-le of attributes.
The uniqueness of in-dividuals is guaranteed in the databasescheme by declaring which attributesconstitute the "key" of the relation.The key attributes as it were constitu-te the "essential" properties of an in-dividual whereas its non-key attributesconstitute its "accidental" properties.
(The term "individual" is used in abroad sense to denote abstract as wellas physical objects, events, acts, situ-ations ...).
Philosophically, such pro-perties are said to be "essential" whichuniquely characterize an individual intime and space - and remain constant inall "possible worlds".
For example a hu-man being might be essentially characte-rized by his/her parents, date and timeof birth.
In everyday discourse, on theother hand, individuals are usually re-ferred to by a particular descriptionwhich enables the hearer to identify theentity and which is chosen on the basisof assumptions about shared knowledgebetween the discourse participants.
(SeeClark/Marshall 1981 for a more detailedaccount of these assumptions).When interacting with a databasequerying system a user may well be awa-re of the fact that s/he does not shareany previous experience with the systemand that it is hence appropriate tocharacterize objects by their definingproperties in the real world, iea  sam-ple is defined by the factory and loca-tion and the date and time it was takenand not by a description such as "thefoul smelling sample".
In principlethen, the prospective user could be in-structed to "use only fully specifieddescriptions".
This is an unrealisticexpectation for two reasons.
First, inconcrete database designs the key attri-butes of a relation are not usually cho-sen to reflect the state of affairs inthe real world but rather out of consi-derations of processing efficiency.
Se-cond, the natural inclinition to be con-cise when interacting in natural lan-guage compels the user to use ellipti-cal descriptions, as in the dialogue be-low :- Where all samples taken from thefirm Miller in 1980 analysed ?- Yes.-D id  the sample taken in Octobercontain any cyanide ?Few users would remember to specify "fromthe firm Miller" in the follow-up query.A system which wishes to offer a minimumof comfort in use should be able to pro-cess "elliptical" descriptions which canbe made unique by supplementing informa-tion from the preceding context.So far we have assumed that in prin-ciple all entities a user wishes to re-fer to can be characterlsed by a numberof essential properties.
In reality theuser often does not know the values forthe essential attributes and hence hasto use another description to refer tothe entity ; for example, "the samplefrom Miller that contained 250 mg of ar-senic".
Such descriptions could be dis-tinguished from the former by the factthat they contain some non-key attribu-tes which the user claims happen to eva-luate to a unique entity in a particularstate of the database.From the point of view of establis-hing the uniqueness of singular defini-te descriptions, one might distinguishthe following four types :(i) intrinsically functional descrip-tions(ii) extrinsically functional descrip-tions(iii) incomplete extrinsically functio-nal descriptions(iv) non-functional or reference esta-blishlng descriptionsDescriptions in category (i) are fun-ctional by virtue of the linguistic ex-pression used.
These include superlati-ves such as the highest salary,, expres-tions denoting aggregate functions suchas the average, the sum ... and expres-sions with nominal modifiers such as thecolour red and the number 13.
Descrip-t ions in category (ii) are functional byvirtue of the state of the world (reflec-ted in the database scheme and the inte-grity constraints).
The president of theUnited States in I~8~, the sample from~he flrm Miller taken on 13.10.80 andthe salary Of G.B.
Jones are examples ofthis catagory.
Descriptions in category(lii) are incompletely specified instan-ces of category (ii) which can be madefunctional by searching contextual in-formation or by requesting such informa-tion from the user.
Descriptions in ca-tegory (iv) are sometimes called "refe-rence establishing" as the 8peclfiedproperties do not guarantee the unique-ness of the description but the speakermaintains the description denotes uni-quely and expects the hearer to accept214this assumption.In order to process descriptions ef-ficiently a natural language processorshould be able to recognize the type ofa description.
Intrinsically functionaldescriptions may be evaluated immediate-ly in the database.
For extrinsicallyfunctional descriptions the databasescheme and the integrity constraintscould indicate whether a given descrip-tion is fully specified.
In case thedescription contains some but not allkey attributes and it does not containany non-key attributes it would seem tobelong to category (iii) and in case itcontsins any non-key attributes it wouldappear to belong to category (iv).
Forcases of incomplete functional descrip-tions complementation procedures shouldbe invoked, whereas the non-functionaldescriptions must be evaluated and anerror message should be sent in case thedescription does not denote uniquely.Obviously, the proposals are only verytentative and require more thorough re-search.
However, the bring us to consi-der the auestion of checking the unique-ness claim implicit in the use of singu-lar the.A natural language query to a rela-tional database is usually translatedinto a query language based on the rela-tionsl calculus and the singular defini-te article is represented by the exis-tential quantifier.
For example, thequery- Who is the president of the U.S.married tomight be presented in a query languagebssed on the domain relational calculus8sI c x = x, COUNTRY = /3 PRES (PERSON'USA ' )/~MARRIED-TO (PERSON =~ x, PER-SON = C)}For a system to ignore the uniquenessclaim of the singular definite articleis st best uncooperative and at worstmay lead to semantically incorrect re-presentations.
Thus, the distinction be-tween restrictive and non-restrictivemodifiers is ignored.
(Of course the re-presentation of non-restrictive modifiersintroduces the additional problems ofhow to process surplus information).The following major proposals for thelogical form of the singular definitearticle have been made : contextual eli-mination, a description operator and aspecial quantifier, Russell's proposal,namely Q(the x Px)a-*~ x Px A (W y Py--~y=x)/% Qx contextually eliminates the des-cription, i.e.
a description has no re-ference out of context.
Russell's inclu-Sion of the uniqueness postulate as atruth condition for the proposition im-plies that the sentence is false whenthe uniqueness claim fails.
If the istreated as a description operator crea-ting a singular term, the descriptionmay receive a denotation out of context.When the description has no referent,the proposition contains an undefinedargument and on some interpretationslacks truth value.
The treatment of theas a quantifier which takes a pair ofpredicates to form a sentence was advo-cated in Moore 1981 because it allowsindication of scope differences.
In thecontext of query evaluation it wouldseem more user-cooperative to treat pro-positions containing descriptions whichdo not evaluate to a unique referent aslacking truth value ; thus, the unique-mess claim might be viewed as a "seman-tic presuppostion".
Under the assumptionthat it is desirable for reasons of com-municative adequacy to represent therelational claim in queries, it shouldbe investigated how query languages ba-sed on the relational calculus could beaugmented by a special quantifier oroperator, given that the contextual eli-mination approach would create an exces-sive processing overhead.ON THE PRAGMATICS OF REFER/LING E~!~RES -S IONSIn natural discourse situations aspeaker choses a description which willenable the listener to identify the spe-aker has in mind.
In some contexts, ho-wever, "identification" is not to be in-terpreted in terms of the hearer retrie-ving some memory entity having the pro-perties of the description.
For example,a hearer may have been told : "the pre-sident of Zalre will be visiting Francenext week".
Storing this propositiondoes not require finding a referent forthe description the president of Z aire- although s/he may do so depending onthe hearer's world knowledge.
It wouldappear that when processing statementscontaining descriptions, the hearer hasthe choice of either resolving the re-ferent or storing the description.
(Thisis not the case in all contexts.
For ex-ample, the statement "the woman who bro-ke her leg is recovering" assumes pre-vious knowledge of the referent, where-as the description the president of Za-ire presumably only presuposes the pre-vious knowledge that Zaire is a countryand that countries may be governed bya president.
(This aspect of the prag-matics of definite descriptions would bean interesting research topic, which toour knowledge has not been investigated)215However, the speaker does not alwaysleave the interpretation strategy up tothe hearer but sometimes requires thehearer to identify the specific indivi-dual s/he has in mind, whereas in othercontexts it may be the speaker's inten-tion not to denote a specific indivi-dual but rather that the description beapplied to the semantic referent.
Thisis roughly the distinction made by "Do-nnellan between the "referential" andthe "attributive" uses of the singulardefinite article.Do the above observations about des-criptions in statements eaually aoplyto questions and is the referential/at-trlbutive distinction relevant in thecontext of database querying ?
To ans-wer this question comprehensively in-volves in the last resort epistimologi-cal considerations.The question Will the president of Znirebe visiting France might be answeredpositively by someone who happened tohave read this news in the paper.
Truth-functionally, however, the questioncan only receive a positive answer incase the corresponding statement repre-sents a true proposition, after thedescription has received an extensionalevaluation, ie colonel Mobutu.
The ex-tensional approach to semantic evalu-ation is the one adopted in databasequerying.
This strategy would seem ap-propriate in most cases.
Suppose, how-ever, the user asks the query "Can thenresident of the U.S. veto the Senate?
".This description is not intended refe-rentially (ie about Ronald Reagan in1985) but attributively.
It might beobjected that the description in thiscontext rather denotes a generic con-cept and that conventional databasesystems are not set up to answer suchaueries.
Nevertheless, when a descrip-tion has been extensionally evaluatedthe description itself should be retai-ned for the subsequent resolution ofanaphoric expressions.
For example, inthe following dialogue :- Did the president of the U.S.visit France in 1982 ?- No.- Did he visit Germany in 1979 ?Substitution of "Ronald Reagan" in thesecond query would result in a wronganswer.
(Different interpretation mo-des for anaphoric descriptions havebeen investigated more thoroughly inGrosz et.
al.
1983).DISCOURSE REFERENTS IN DATABASE QUERIESIn the preceding section it was seenthat a truth-functional evaluation ofqueries presupposes an extensional eva-luation of descriptions in the database.In natural discourse situations the re-ferent of a description may be anotherdescription which appeared previously inthe discourse, rather than an entity inthe real world.
This previously mentio-ned entity may be called a "discoursereferent" a term introduced by Karttun-en to explain certain phenomena of re-ferential indexing for definite descrip-tions.
According to Karttunen 68~a adiscourse referent is "an entity that -once it has been established - can bereferred to by a pronoun or revived bya definite description" and is not to beequated with either "the individual thespeaker has in mind" nor with "the thingin the real world".
Yer example, theassertion($I) Jones took a sample from thefirm Millerestablishes a discourse entity whichmay be revived by "the sample that Jo-nes took from the firm Miller".
Discour-se referents in the strict sense areintroduced in the discourse by means ofan indefinite description.
(The notionhas been extended in Karttunen 68 b).Adopting the logical formalism for des-cribing discourse referents proposed inWebber 1978 this discourse referentcould be described as :Lx  : SAMPLE (x)/k TOOK (Jones,x)/k ORIGIN (x, Mi l ler)A EVOKE(x, sl)A proposition mentioning the sentencewhere the indefinite description wasintroduced establishes the contextualuniqueness of the singular definite des-cription.How does the notion of "discoursereferent" as explained above operate inquestions ?
For example, does the query($2) Did Jones take a sample fromthe firm Miller ?establish a discourse referent ?
Ob-viously, the description "the sampleJones took from the firm Miller" canonly be used subsequently if the ans-wer to ($2) is positive.
It might beposited hence that the reply($3) Yesimplies the statement "Jones took asample from the firm Miller" and thathance the description of the discoursereferent would contain the propositionEVOKE (x, S~).216A system which behaves like a natu-ral discourse partner should store thedescription of the discourse referent(together with a pointer to its referen-tial index which was retrieved on ans-wering $2).
If the user should in thesubsequent discourse - no matter howmany sentences intervene - refer to"the sample Jones took from Miller" thesystem should not reject this descrip-tion as being incompletely specified.If the answer to ($2) had been ne-gative, no discourse referent wouldhave been established.
Can one inferfrom this example the general rulethat negatively answered questions can-not establish a discourse referent ?Consider the following interaction :(S4) Did the graduate admissionscommittee hold a meeting today?
(s~) ~o.
($6) Was the meeting postponed ?Can the expression "the meeting" in ($6)be construed as an abbreviation for"the meeting of the graduate admissionscommittee which was not held yesterday"or is it simply an abbreviation for"the meeting of the graduate admissionscommittee" ?
The difference between($2) and ($4) can perhaps be accountedfor by the difference between the non--s~ecific use of the indefinite articlein ($2) and the specific use in ($4).In the specific use the relative clausederived from the predicate in the ori-ginal question, ie that was held yester-day, should be understood in a non-re-strictive sense and is hence not an es-sential part in the description of thediscourse referent.
Further researchinto the behaviour of indefinites innegative and interrogative contexts isis again called for.REFERENCESBerwick R. (1983) Computational Aspectsof Discourse.
In : Computa-tional Models of Discourse ,Brady M. and Bel~ick R.(eds), the MIT Press, 1983,97-106.Charniak ~.
(1972) Towards a model ofchildren's story comprehen-sion, MIT AI LAB TR-266,~ '~r idge  MA, 1972.Clark H. and Marshall C.M.
(1981) Defini-te reference and mutualknowledge.
In : Elements of.Discourse Understanding,Joshi et al (eds.
), Cam-bridge University Press,1981, 10 - 63.Donnellan K.S.
(1966) Reference and defi-nite descriptions.
In : Phi-losophical Review, vol.
~ ,1966, 281 - 304.Grosz B., Joshi A.K.
and Weinstein S.(1983) Providing a unifiedaccount of definite nounphrases in discourse, Pro-ceedin~s of the 21st ACL~MIT, June 1983, 44 - 50.Karttunen L. (1968b) What makes definit~noun phrases definite ?Technical report P-3871,The Rand Corporation, June1968.Linsky L.
(ed.)
(1971) Reference and M.o-da le ,  Oxford University2ross.Moore R.C.
(1981) Problems in logicalform, Proceedings of the19th ACL, Stanford Universi-t'y, June 1981, 117-125.Ortony A., Anderson R.C.
(1977) Definitedescriptions and semanticmemory, Cognitive Sqience1977, 1, 74-83.Rieger C.J.
(1974) Conceptual memory : atheory, and computer programfor processin~ the meanin~content of natural languageutterances, Stanford Arti-ficial Intelligence Lab Me-mo AIM - 233, Stanford CA.Searle J.R. (1969) Speech Acts, an Essayin the Philosphy of Language, New York ; Cambridge Uni-versity Press.Sidner C. (1979) Towards a computationaltheory of definite anaphoracompreh@nsion in ~n~lishdiscourse.
Technical reoort~Ar t i f i c ia l  Intelli-gence Laboratory, CambridgeMAWebber B.L.
(1978) A formal Approach toDiscourse Anaphora.
Techni-cal repor~ 3761, Bolt, Bera-nek and Newman, CambridgeMA.217
