NON STANDARD USES OF IFD.S.
Bree & R.A. SmitRotterdam School of ManagementErasmus UniversityP.O.
Box 17383000 DR RotterdamThe NetherlandsABSTRACTThe present study examines the semant ic  problemsinvolved in computing the meaning of the non standarduses of if.
The central  question is whether or not it isnecessary to introduce d i f ferent  meanings of if.Austin proposed two non standard meanings for if.
Weshow that these can be accounted for by the standardmeaning together with shifts in the position of the speechact within the sentence.
These uses of if are among the 9di f ferent  non standard uses which we found in a sample ofif sentences taken from the Brown University corpus:1.
Counter factuahIf E had stuck to his plan he'd still be famous.2.
Factual:If R was a liar, he was also a canny gentleman.3.
Conditional speech act:You may come back to Strasbourg, now, if you wish.4.
Per format ive speech act:He vowed vengence on L, if ever the chance camehis way.5.
Noun clause:He wondered if the audience would let him finish.6.
Doubtful presuppositionPer fect  entit ies, if they move at all, don't move to7. "
'Restr ict iveSocial relations impose courtesy, if not sympathy,8.
"'Concessive9.
Protasis only" I f  you want to see -" "Never  mind", she saidsternly.Each use was examined to see whether it  could beaccounted for by the standard meaning of if, togetherwith other  features of the sentence.
S imi lar  d i f ferencesin usage should then be found with other SCs.
This wasthe case for the f irst four uses.
In three uses (6,7,8) i fmay/must occur in a phrase rather than in a full clause.The hypothesis that these uses can be der ived from thestandard meaning of i f  in an equivalent clause wasexplored and rejected.
Two of these uses (6,7) require amater ia l  impl icat ion interpretat ion  of if, also necessaryfor a few of the standard condit ional  sentences.Two uses (5,9) require only that the truth value of thefollowing c lause/phrase is unspecif ied.
This is a propertythat all the uses have in common (with the except ion ofthe factual use where the truth of the protasis is used toemphasise the truth of the apodosis) and is thus thefeature that re lates the d i f ferent  meanings of if.
Thestandard use and the non standard uses using the standardmeaning (1,2,3,4) require, in addition, that there is aninference relation from the protasis (the if sub clause) tothe apodosis (the main clause in which the if c lause isembedded).So we propose that three d i f ferent  meanings of if arerequired: inference (including the standard use), mater ia limplication (uses 6,7) and just doubting the truth value ofthe following proposition (uses 5,9).
Each of these threeuses may be expected to be translated by d i f ferent  wordsin other languages, e,g.
in Dutch by als, zo and of (exceptfor use 8) respectively.INTRODUC'TIONThere has long been, and st i l l  is, a controversy aboutthe meaning of i f  (e.g.
Grice, 1967; Stalnaker, 1975;Harper et al 1981).
Much of  this discussion presupposesthat there is indeed one meaning of if.
Is thispresupposit ion just i f ied?At  one level the answer is c lear ly  'no', e.g.
i f  can beused to introduce a noun clause fo l lowing an i l locut ionaryverb:John asked if  he could come in now.Such examples do not conform to the condit ional  use of i fas in:If John asked he could come in now.This is so d i f ferent  a use of if that one might claim itshould be set aside from the conditional if.
Thus therewould be two ifs: if' for subordinate clauses and it ~ fornoun clauses.Our question should be re formulated as: is there onlyone meaning of i f '?
Aust in (1961) c la imed that the answerwas 'no', providing examples that did not conform to twological propert ies that are associated with if% There is as t ipu lat ive  use of i f '  which does not contrapose, e.g.
from1.
I promise to marry him if  he asks me.one does not conclude thatIf I do not promise to marry him, he does not askme.There is also an i f  of  doubt or hesi tat ion which not onlyfails to contrapose, but which also asserts the proposit ionunderly ing the main clause (the 'apodosis proposit ion') ,e.g.
from2.
There are biscuits on the table i f  you want some.fails to contrapose, but also we are wi l l ing to accept theapodosis s impl ic i ter ,  Can this c la im be rebutted?218We believe that i t  can be.
Austin's fault lies inworking with the surface structure rather than with theunderlying propositions.
He thus fails to take account ofthe scope of i f  and of the scope of the speech actinvolved.
With condit ional i f ' ,  the condit ion falls withinthe scope of the speech act.
When there is a per format iveverb in the apodosis, then the condit ional is within thescope of the performat ive;  so the per format ive itself  isnot within the condit ional,  just as with AustiWs exampleof st ipulat ive i f  t. Thus I is paraphrasable as:l promise that I wi l l  marry him if  he asks me.in which the promise is contraposable:\[ promise that he does not ask me i f  1 wi l l  not marryhim.In the case of an i f  of doubt or hesitation it is the speechact that falls within the scope of the condit ional.
Thus 2is:\[f you want biscuits, accept the declaration thatthere are some on the table.This act of speech is to be noticed only when theproposition underlying the protasis (the i f  clause) holds; itis NOT made simpliciter.This explanation of the reading of Austints two ifs,based on the re lat ive scopes of the speech act and if, canbe extended to other subordinating conjunctions (SC's),e.g.I promise to marry him unless~provided~when h 'srich.The case for the non-restr ict ive use, with the speech actfal l ing within the scope of the SC was made byRutherford (1970), e.g.He'l l  marry you, unless I'm mistaken.In view of this general i ty  it is parsimonious to regardAustin's two ifs as two d i f ferent  uses arising out of thecontext of the speech act, rather than as two d i f ferentmeanings of if.Rejecting Austin's ifs as possible contenders for an i f 'having a non standard meaning does not, however, showthat there are no non standard meanings.In fact the O.E.D suggests 9 d i f ferent  uses of if:1. conditional;2. semi-factual;3. counter factual;4. a pregnant sense, e.g.If they are poor, they are at any rate happy;5. an archaic use with that;6. an e l l ipt ic  use, e.g.
i f  at all;7. the protasis alone, e.g.
\[f \[ had only known;8. in phrases, e.g.
as if;9. introducing a noun clause, e.g.
ask if.
(Note that this list does NOT include Austin's two uses ofif!
)To check whether or not there were further possibleuses we have taken a 10% sample of i f  sentences fromthe Brown University corpus of American printed texts,avai lable on magnetic tape (Kucera & Francis, 1967).
\[nour judgement in 61% of the 218 sentences in the sample,i f  was used in a standard condit ional way.
In 8% the i fwas preceded by some modif ier,  e.g.
as if.
This left  69(31%) non standard uses of i f  as possible contenders ford i f ferent  meanings of if.A TAXONOMY OF NON STANDARD IFTo consider the possibi l i ty that some meanings of i fd i f fer  from the condit ional,  we need some way ofclassifying the 69 non standard sentences in our sample.The taxonomy we chose is based on two features that arepresent in the condit ional uses of if: i f  enables aproposition to be referred to or entertained without beingasserted as being (possibly) true or false, and i f  signals aninference relat ion from the protasis proposit ion to theapodosis proposition.
By an inference re lat ion we meanthat the apodosis proposit ion may be inferred from theprotasis proposition, together with the contextpropositions.
(See the cr i t ique of Bree (1973) on Wasonand Johnson-Laird's (1972) proposal for the d i f ferentinterpretat ions of if.
)In the non standard uses of i f  one or the other of thesetwo features is e i ther  absent or altered.
Thus we proposethat there are two major categories of non standard if:A. in which the inference re lat ion is present but theprotasis proposition is NOT in doubt, being ei ther  trueor false;B. in which the truth status of the protasis proposit ion isin doubt, but the inference re lat ion does not run fromthe protasis to the apodosis proposition.This last class is divided into two subclasses:BI.
in which the inference re lat ion is present but with ad i f ferent  scope from the standard use;B2.
in which the inference re lat ion is absent.The complete classif ication of the sample of i f  sentencesaccording to their  d i f ferent  uses is shown in Table 1.We wi l l  now consider each of the d i f ferent  uses inturn, in order to determine whether the use requires ad i f ferent  meaning of i f  from the standard condit ional.
Wewi l l  check whether or not the non standard use is to befound with other SCs, so that it can be accounted forwithout postulating a new meaning; whether it is relatedto another non standard use, so that both uses are basedon the same non standard meaning; or whether it requiresits own idiosyncrat ic non standard meaning of if.Counter factua lsCounterfactual  if, which is a problem for logicians, isstra ightforward from our point of view.
An inferencerelat ion from the protasis proposition to that in theapodosis is being asserted, while it is known that theprotasis proposition is false (Bree, 1982).It is usual (16 of the 18 counterfactual  sentences inour sample) for the apodosis proposition to be false (or aquestion), which is indicated by using the auxl lary would:(26) If  Elaine's uncle had stuck to this desire foraloneness, he probably would sti l l  be al ive,(60) "Laura, what would you say i f  I smoked a pipe?
"However the apodosis proposition may be true (1/18):(76) (...) i f  it  had never printed a word of l i teratureits contr ibut ion to the pol i t ico-sociological  areawould st i l l  be historic.The protasis alone is used to indicate that important(desirable) consequences would flow from the truth of theprotasis:(85) " I f  it  wasn't for these dear chi ldren.
"219Table 1.
Su~nary of the uses of if in the sample.Category and sub-category N p q Relation CommentsSTANDARD 132 ?
?ACounterfactual 18 ~ + \[ -Factual 6 + +BIConditional speech act 6 ?
+Performative conditional I ?
?B2Noun clause 10 ?
naDoubtful presupposition 17 ?
+Restrictive ( if not) 5 ?
?Concessive 2 ?
+OTHERProtasis only 2 ?
naIdicmatic 2Total non standard 69Modified if 17I -(~>q)\[-(re>q)D-> \]-q for ~phasisp->\]-q listener knows p is +{-perf(p->q)p is a questionx\[-p p is presupposed by xx\]-p ZP to replace x in q?oon(x) \]p p connotated by x in qna if p is sufficientTotal sample 218Legend:N Number of sentencesp protasis propositionq apcdosis propositionq' q w/o performative verbx part of qpert performativecon connotation of?
t ruefalse?
unknown truthna not applicableI exclusive or- > inference\[- assertion speech actThe counterfactual  construct ion is not unique to if; itoccurs with other SCs in which the truth status of thesubordinate clause proposit ion is normal ly  open, e.g.
:She wouldn't  have marr ied him unless she had lovedhim.She would have married him provided he had askedher.In both cases the main proposition is false; thesubordinate proposition is true for unless and false forprovided.
Thus the counterfactual  use should NOT bebased on a d i f ferent  meaning of if, but rather in the useof the subjunctive mode.FactuaisThe protasis proposition may be true rather thanfalse; this is the O.E.D.
pregnant sense of if.
In suchcases the apodosis proposition is also true.
Moreoverthere is no DIRECT relation from the protasis propositionto the apodosis proposition, so it is strange that if isbeing used at all.
One possible explanation is that it is aslip for the more appropriate SC although, as in:(113) \[f Robinson was a liar and a slanderer, he wasalso a very canny gent leman (...)Somet imes it is used where cordination would be moresuitable:(174) If we thus spent our very f irst day in (...) ourlast day to us at least, was equal ly impressive(...)But neither sense would be appropr iate in(185) If  Wilhelm Reich is the Moses who has led themout of the Egypt of sexual slavery, DylanThomas is the poet who offers them theDionysian dia lect ic  of just i f icat ion for theirindulgence in l iquor, (...)A more sat isfactory explanat ion is that it is the speechact that is condit ional  upon the protasis proposition.
Thewr i te r  is emphasising the speech act by prefacing it (theprotasis must always occur before the apodosis in thesefactuals) with a proposition that he knows the reader wil lknow to be true.
The inference is from the protasisproposition to the speech act containing the apodosis, asin:(178) (...) whether there is such fitness or not, we wi l lassume that there is, and i f  we do, we express(...)It is used with ef fect  in emphasising an imperat ive:(211) (...) so if  you want to avoid nicked fingers, keepyour hands well  out of the way.When a wr i ter  wishes to draw at tent ion to a speechact, he can do so by making it condit ional  on aproposit ion that both he and the reader know to be true.While this constuction does not occur with other SCs, it is220clearly a d i f ferent  PRAGMATIC use of if, which does notrequire a d i f ferent  meaning of if.Conditional speech actsWe turn now to non standard uses in which theprotasis proposition is indeed in doubt, but the inferencerelation is non standard.
We showed that Austin's if ofdoubt or hesitation can be considered as a conditionalspeech act rather than as a speech act in which there is aconditional.
Conditional speech acts are made when thewriter does not know whether or not a speech act isappropriate in the c ircumstances,  but he believes that thereader does know.
Most (4/6) of our examples are of thisform:(189) If you would feel happier with full collisioninsurance, there is a small additional charge (...)(209) "You may come back to Strasbourg, now, if youwish.
"The other use in the sample (2/6) is when the writerwishes to pose a question but only under the appropriatec ircumstances:(190) If you use company transportat ion to meettrains or haul visitors, would taxis be cheaper?As has already been pointed out, the speech act canfall within the scope of other SCs.
Thus it is notparsimonious to postulate a seperate meaning of if forconditional speech acts.Performative conditionalsThe scope of the speech act normally includes theinference relation.
We have just seen how the speech actmay instead occur within this relation.
With performat iveverbs in the apodosis we see a shift the other way; thespeech act indicated by a verb in the apodosis is NOTwithin the scope of the inference relation, despite thefact that the verb occurs in the apodosis.
This is the casewith Austin's st ipulative if, e.g.
:(28) (...) he vowed vengence on Viola Lake if everthe chance came his way.We have seen that this use also occurs with other SCs, sothe use of if within the scope of a performat ive does NOTrequire a seperate meaning of if.Doubtful noun clausesWe have just looked at two uses of if in which theprotasis proposition is indeed in doubt, but in which theinference relation is non standard.
We turn now to uses inwhich the inference relation is absent.
The first of theseis the use of if to introduce a clause to function as theobject of a mental act:(144) I asked an old guy (...) if the boat was Moore's.A range of verbs involving questions take thisconstruction:wonder if, when the agent has the question in his mind;see if, when the agent tries directly to answer hisquestion;ask if, when the agent puts his question to a third party;know if, when the agent has the answer to a question inthe mind of the speaker;doubt if, when the agent believes that the answer to aquestion in the mind of the speaker is probably negative.This construct ion is not found with other SCs, except forwhether;, nor is there any question of it being subsumedunder any of the other uses of if.
So it is an apartmeaning of if.Doubtful presuppositionsA frequent non standard use is to cast doubt on apresupposition of the main clause.
Just as with the use ofi f  to introduce a noun clause, the protasis proposition isin doubt - more, it is being put into doubt - and there isno inference relationship from the protasis to theapodosis proposition.
The presuppositions that weredenied in this way in the sample were:-existence, presupposed by a noun (4/17):(77) But it also made him conspicuous to the enemy,i f  it  was the enemy (...)-an event, presupposed by the use of a verb (3/17):(159) Perfect,  complete entit ies, i f  they move at all,do not move towards what they lack.-number and place, presupposed by certa in adjectives oradverbs, which are put into doubt using i f  any(where)(5117):(10) Few areas, if  any, (...)(16) For here, if  anywhere, (...)-and possibi l ity or necessity, presupposed by imperat ivesand promises or threats (2/17):( I I0)  Begin the examinat ion of a site with agood mapand aerial  photos, i f  possible.
(I00) The posse then asked that he send out thewomen and children as the building would bef ired (...) i f  necessary to take him dead or alive.There is also the interest ing case in which a complexent i ty  which is doubtful enters into a proposition.
This isdone by placing the complex ent i ty  into the protasis,together with ever, and referr ing to it in the apodosis(3117):(149) \[f there was ever a thought in her mind that(...), it was now dispelled.It might be thought that this is a special case of acondit ional speech act.
However it differs from the lat terin that the protasis proposition is not thought by thewr i ter  to be decidable by the reader.
Rather it is in thenature of a hedge against a possible, but not highlyprobable, state presupposed by the apodosis.
Thus wehave classified it as having no inference relat ion from theprotasis to the apodosis.However there is some relationship between theprotasis and the apodosis, best characterised as ana l ternat ive relationship.
The apodosis proposition isdoubtful because one aspect, x, with in it may not beapplicable.
Thus where x occurs in the apodosisproposition there must be (x v not-p), e.g.
I0 could be:number of areas (small v not-one).This proposal is related to mater ia l  impl icat ion instandard symbolic logic: p x is equivalent to not-p v x.RestrictivesIn contrast to an i f  phrase indicating that a word maygo too far because a presupposition may not hold, an i f221not phrase is used to indicate that the word being used, anoun or an adverb, may not go far enough:(102) And social relations arising out of business tiesimpose courtesy, if not sympathy, toward (...)(105) (...} the inevitable t ime crisis exper ienced bymost (if not all) adolescents in our society (...)Can this use of i f  not be derived from another use of if,together with not, or is it a d i f ferent  use in its own right?There are three possibil it ies for the derivat ion: that thei f  not phrase is derived from an i f  not clause, that therestr ict ive use is found with other SCs with not, and thatthe restr ict ive use can be derived from another use of i fin a phrase.Consider the first possibility, i.e.
that the restr ict iveuse of an if not phrase is simply an abbreviated form foran entire clause, e.g.
102 would be derived from:(102') And if social relations arising out of businessties do not impose sympathy, they imposecourtesy toward (...)But if this is the case then 102' should be ei ther  astandard conditional use of if or one of the non standarduses.
It is certainly not a standard use as the apodosis, atleast of the original, is asserted simpliciter.
However,neither is it a factual use as the protasis is not asserted,but left open.
This suggests that it might be a conditionalspeech act; but 102 t lacks an important feature ofconditional speech acts, namely that the speaker expectsthe l istener to know whether the protasis proposition istrue or not.
So, while the restr ict ive use of if not tointroduce a phrase can be derived from an if not clause,this does not help matters  as this use would in i tself  bedi f ferent  from any other.The second possibil ity is that the restr ict ive use of ifnot occurs with other SCs.
There is only one other SCthat has this syntact ic  construct ion, namely although.However semantical ly there is a d i f ference from thisconcessive use of although, e.g.Most although not all adolescents in our society (...)is definitely a restr ict ion to 'not all adolescents'  ratherthan a possible restr ict ion to 'all adolescents ' .
So there isNO similar use for the other SCs that is semantical lyequivalent o this restr ict ive use of if not.We turn now to the last possibility, other if phrases.There are two: the concessive use (see below) and thedoubting of a presupposition.
Toshow that the restr ict iveuse cannot be derived from the concessive use considerthis ambiguous example:The establ ishment of fered a longlasting, if notpermanent,  cure.This can have a restr ict ive interpretat ion,  i.e.
that thecure is certainly longlasting and may well be permanent.But it can also have a concessive interpretat ion as can beseen when 'not permanent '  is replaced by ' temporaryt:The establ ishment of fered a longlasting, iftemporary,  cure.So the restr ict ive use cannot be derived from combiningnot with the concessive use of if (otherwise there wouldbe no ambiguity).Rather the restr ict ive use is semantical ly equivalentto the use of doubting a presupposition.
The relationshipin the latter  case we have classif ied as (x v not-p), wherex is an ent i ty in the apodosis.
The restr ict ive use isidentical.
For a sentence of the form q if not p, therelationship is (x v p), where once again x is an ent i ty  inthe apodosis.
For example the relevant phrase in 105could be formalised asnumber of adolescents (large v all).Compare this with the formal isat ion for ' few areas ifany':number of areas (small v not-one).While the equivalence to the if of doubtfulpresupposit ion holds at this level, restr ict ive if has ad i f ferent  function.
In the former the protasis introduces adoubt about the legit imacy of something presupposed inthe main clause; the lat ter  proposes a possiblerep lacement  for something in the main clause.We conclude that the restr ict ive use of if not isderivable from the same logical s t ructure as the use of ifto doubt a presupposit ion and so does NOT introduce anew meaning of if.Concess ivesAnother use of if in which the apodosis proposit ion istrue and in which there is no inference relation, is aconcessive use.
It occurs only with an adject ive in theprotasis:(5) (...) now that you have finally grown up, if al i tt le late (...)(121) (...) a well known establ ishment for the speedyif temporary rehabi l i tat ion of drunkards (...)This use cannot be reduced to the standard condit ionalmeaning of if  by claiming that the phrase in the protasishas been reduced from some complete  clause.
If we try todo so, as in:(5') You have finally grown up, if you have grown upa l i tt le late.the result is not a standard conditional but rather afactual,  but one which contains new information in theprotasis; no such factuals occurred in our sample.
So theconcessive use of if phrases cannot be derived from aunderlying if c lause use.As we have already seen, it is possible that a nonstandard use of i f  has a counterpart  with other SCs.
Theonly other SC that permits a s imi lar  construct ion isalthough:You have f inal ly  grown up, although a l i t t le  late.which is almost a paraphrase of 5.
But it is unl ikely thatthis concessive use of i f  is a 'mistake'  for although;certain authors use concessive i f  phrases consistently,e.g.
Schoenberger (1969).
A possible di f ference betweenthe two is that the adject ive fol lowing although isdef in i te ly  applicable, c.f.A speedy although temporary rehabi l i tat ion.A speedy i f  temporary rehabi l i tat ion.This suggests that there is a relat ion between theconcessive use and the use to indicate a doubtfulpresupposition.
Here what is put into doubt is not thepresupposition but a l ikely connotat ion of a word, e.g.rehabi l i tat ions are normal ly  permanent.
However thelogical re lat ion is NOT the same, e.g.
it is not the casethat 'speedy if temporary rehabi l i tat ion'  can beformalised by:t ime for rehabi l i tat ion (short)222duration of rehabi l i tat ion (permanent v not-temporary);rather it isduration of rehabi l i tat ion (permanent v temporary).So the concessive use of if cannot be reduced to the useto doubt a presupposition.
We have also shown that itcannot be derived from a standard or factual if clause;nor do other SCs exhibit the same phenomenon.
So theconcessive use of if must be considered as being based ona d i f ferent  meaning of if.Protasis onlyOne of the uses of if that, within our sample, occursonly within reported speech, is when the speaker putsforward a possibi l ity which in i tself  is suff ic ient to causea reaction in the listener:(187) "If  you want to see" ... "Never mind", she saidsternly.
(200) "But i f  you say you managed it - - -"  The stangerwas hooked.it is the pragmatics of the context  that leads to theprotasis being suff ic ient to cause the speaker to stop orthe l istener to interrupt, so no new meaning of i f  isrequired.SummaryThe non standard examples of i f  sentences have beendivided into 9 sub-categories within the three categoriesthat we proposed above.
Is there any post hot: rat ionalethat can be given for these categories?
Are theynecessary or complete?Within category A, in which the protasis propositionDOES have a truth value, there are two subcategories,counterfactuals  and factuals, which correspond to theprotasis proposition being false and true respectively.However this is not the only d i f ference between the two:counterfactuals  have a standard inference relation fromthe protasis to the apodosis proposition, while factuals donot.
For the factuals it is the speech act that iscondit ional upon the protasis proposition.Why is it that we do not find two other sub-categories: false protasis with conditional speech act andtrue protasis with standard inference?
There is nopragmatic situation in which the former might occur; ifboth the writer and the reader know that the protasisproposition is false, then the speech act would never beaccepted at all.
For the latter  there is another SC whichfulfills the function, namely non-temporal  since.Neither do we find the condition falling within thescope of a performative verb in category A.
It cannotoccur with counterfactuals  as the performat ive wouldhave to be countered in which case it would no longer beperformed, e.g.I would have promised to marry him if he had askedme.is simply no promise at all but a standard counterfactual .Neither have we been able to construct  a factual within aperformative.
So there are no sub-categories missingfrom A.Within the BI category,  with non standard inference,we find a symmetr ica l  situation.
For the conditionalspeech act, the speech act is moved IN to within thescope of the protasis; for the performat ive use the mainverb in the apodosis is moved OUT beyond the scope ofthe protasis.
Thus we do not expect  to find further sub-categor ies within Bl.Within the B2 category, in which the inferencerelation is absent, we found 5 sub-categor ies within thesample.
In the sub-category in which if introduces a nounclause there is no apodosis; if is being used just tointroduce a proposition with unknown truth value.
Thereis another sub-category with no apodosis, when theprotasis is suff ic ient for the speaker to stop.The remaining 3 sub-categories with in B2 are allrelated in several ways: the protasis may be a phrase (intwo cases, restricit Jve and concessive use, it MUST be aphrase); whi le the protasis is in doubt the apodosisproposition is true, with a minor exception; this exceptionis being put forward in the protasis as possibly althoughnot necessarily the case.
In the restr ict ive use (if not) thewr i te r  suggests the possibi l i ty of a further restr ict ion toone of the features of the apodosis; in the use to doubt apresupposition, the apodosis, on the contra~'y, goes too farin one of its presuppostions; in the concessive use it is notsomething as strong as a presupposition that goes too farbut just a l ikely connotat ion of a phrase within theapodosis.
While there is some pattern to this B2 category,we bel ieve that it is essential ly open; innovat ive uses ofi f  wi l l  be found here rather than in the other twocategories.CONCLUSIONWe have found 9 d i f ferent  non standard uses of if, assummarised in Table I.
However this does not requirethere to be 9 d i f ferent  meanings for if.
Three meaningsare suff ic ient.Four of the d i f ferent  uses are explainable bypragmatic considerations, a point we made whencr i t ic is ing Austin's claim.
His two ifs are the two uses incategory BI; the differences arise from differences in thescopes of the speech act and the condit ional and arecommon to other SCs.
The factual use occurs when boththe wr i te r  and reader know that the protasis propositionis true and is used for emphasis.
Last ly the protasis mayoccur without an apodosJs when the speaker isinterrupted.
Al l  four uses are based on the standardcondit ional meaning of if; the non standard uses arisesfrom pragmatic considerations.The counterfactual  use arises from an interact ionwith the subjunctive mode in the apodosis.
This iscommon to other SCs and so does not require an apartmeaning of if.The use of i f  to introduce a noun clause DOES requirean apart meaning of i f  as no inference relat ion is present.This suggests that the feature of i f  to introduce aproposition of unknown truth value is predominant overthe inference relationship feature.
The factual use of i f  isthe only use in which the former feature is absent; then Jtis a styl ist ic  consideration that leads to the use of if, i.e.223to add emphasis.The three remaining uses are possible candidates for athird meaning of if, as none display an inferencerelationship.
These uses cannot be accounted for by somepragmatic var iat ion of the standard condit ional,  such as ashift in the scope of the speech act, nor are s imi lar  usesfound with other SCs in general.
In two of these uses,restr ict ive and concessive, the protasis must be a phrase;but these phrases cannot be derived from a correspondingstandard condit ional  clause.Two uses, doubtful presuppostion and restr ict ive,  havea semant ic  feature in common, namely that there is somefeature of the apodosis, x, which may need to bemodified.
We propose that if here has a meaningequivalent o material  implication, i.e.
x v not-p, which isequivalent to p D x.
This is the tradit ional logicianssuggestion for the standard meaning of if.We do not accept that in the standard condit ional usethe meaning of if is equivalent o material  implication;such an equivalence runs into diff icult ies.
For instance itrequires the equivalence of:If I hit you, it'll hurt.Either I don't hit you or you'll be hurt.and such unacceptable reasoning as:God doesn't exist, so i f  God exists we are free to dowhat we want.Several attempts to save the equivalence have beenmade.
For instance Grice (1967) did so by requir ing thatspeakers adhere to certain conversational implicatures,such as saying as much as they know, thus ruling out theuse of a condit ional i f  sentences with a false protasis.Formal semanticists propose some slight modif ications.For instance Stalnaker (1975) claimed that in any contextin which a sentence of the form not-p or q is acceptable,a sentence of the form i f  p then q is also acceptable.Elsewhere (Bree, 1981) we have taken issue with theseand other attempts to demonstrate equivalence of i f  withmater ia l  impl icat ion.However in the use of if to doubt a presupposition orto make a restr ict ion, the meaning of if can beconsidered to be equivalent o material  implication.
Italso occurs infrequently (3%) with standard conditionals:(62) (...) if 1 don't put my two cents in, someone elsewill.in which there is no inferential  relation.
This meaningdiffers from our standard meaning in that the truth of theapodosis proposition is suff ic ient to confirm the sentence,e.g.
knowing that 'someone else will' is suff ic ient toconfirm 62.
Similarly for two other uses: with thedoubtful presupposition use of if, knowing that theapodosis is true is suff ic ient to confirm the sentence,  asthe presupposition is no longer in doubt; with therestr ic i tve use, the apodosis is the minimal assert ion thatis being made so its truth is suff ic ient for the truth of thesentence.
So the x v not-p, or material  implication,meaning of if accounts for these two uses of if.The last non standard use of if, the concessive, is ananomaly.
There is no question of inference, but neither isthere any a f f in i ty  with mater ia l  impl icat ion, e.g.speedy if temporary ~ speedy or not temporary.\[t is possible that this use is a contract ion from even if.We refrain from suggesting a fourth meaning of if.
Wewould expect  that translat ions into other languages wouldnot be to the conditional, e.g.
with Dutch if in suchexpressions i t ranslated using zij her, l iterally be it.In conclusion, we propose that if has three d i f ferentmeanings, all of which have one feature in common: thetruth status of the protasis is in doubt.
They are, in orderof frequency of occurence in our sample:1. inferent ial  (p~q) :  as used in standard, counter factua land factual condit ionals, together  with the condit ionalspeech act, the per format ive condit ional and the useof the protasis without an apodosis (in this last casethe inference is left open);2. mater ia l  impl ication {q v not-p): as used in a fewstandard conditionals, for doubting a presupposit ionand in the restr ict ive use;3. doubting:, as used in noun clauses, in which only thetruth of the associated proposition is put into doubt.We expect  that other languages will use d i f ferent  wordsfor these three meanings.
This is the case in Dutch, forexample, where the uses depending on an inferent ialmeaning are indicated by als or the more formal indien,the material  implication by zo and doubting by of (whichis also used to t rans late whether).
There is only oneexcept ion to this, the factual  use in Dutch is notindicated by als but by a change in word order.Any computer  program which purports to understandthe English language will need to be able to distinguishbetween these three d i f ferent  meanings.
The last,doubting, is easy to detect  as if is then used to introducea noun clause as opposed to a sub clause.
Howeverdistinguishing between the inferential  and mater ia limplication is not solvable on syntact ic  grounds.
Onesuggestion is to assume that if has an inferentialmeaning; if no inference relation can be found, then itmust be equivalent to material  implication.
This sholJl~be easy to decide when if is being used to put apresupposit ion i to doubt or in its restr ict ive use; morediff icult  would be to detect  mater ia l  implication instandard uses of if.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe research reported here was carr ied out as part ofthe project "The Semant ics of subordinating conjunctions:an information processing approach", supported by theNederlandse Stichting voor Psychonomie, with fundsmade available from the ZWO.
Pro ject  Nr.
15-30-10.Don Sherman of Stanford University ComputingCenter  kindly provided us with the data for this study.REFERENCESAustin, J.L., lfs and cans, in J .O.Urmson &G.j .Warnock, eds., Philosophical papers of J .
LAust in .London; Oxford University Press, 1961.Bree, D.S., The interpretat ion of implication, inA.El ithorn 8= D.Jones, eds., Art i f ic ia l  and human thinking.Amsterdam; Elsevier, 1973, 273-282.224Bree, D.S., Can IF be formally represented?Proceedings of the 3rd.
annual conference of theCognitive Science Society.
Berkely, 1981, 173-176.Bree, D.S., Counterfactuals and causality.
Journal ofSemantics, 1982, 1, 147-185.Grice, H.P., William James Lectures, HarvardUniversity, 1967.
Published in part as "Logic andconversation", in P.Cole & J.L.Morgan, eds., Syntax andsemantics, vol.
3.
New York; Seminar Press, 1975, 41-58.Harper, W.L., Stalnaker, R. & Pearce, G., Ifs.Dordrecht; Reidel, 1981.Kucera, H. & Francis, W.N., Computational analysisof present-day American English.
Providence; BrownUniversity Press, 1967.Rutherford, W.E., Some observations concerningsubordinate clauses in English.
Language, 1910, 46, 97-115.Schoenberger, W.S., Decision of destiny.
Athens, Ohio;Ohio University Press, 1969.Stalnaker, R.C., indicative conditionals.
Phiiosophica,1975, 5, 269-286.Wason, P.C.
& Johnson-Laird, P.N., Psychology ofreasoning.
London; Batsford, 1972.225
