SOME RE~h~RXS ON CASE RELATIONSJGrgen KunzeZentrallnstltut fGr SprachwissenschaftAkademle der Wissensch~ften der DDRPrenzlauer Promenade 149-152BerlinDDR-1100ABSTRACTThe topic of the paper is the problemhow to define case relations by semanticpredicates.
A general principle is out-lined, which renders it possible to"calculate" case relations for a givenrepresentation of a (verb-)sememe bymeans of expressions.
This principle isbased on an assignment of case relationsto primitive predicates and modificationrules for nested expressions.
Contraryto the traditional case grammar it turnsout ~ha~ one needs mixed case relations,especially for two reasons: Argumentsoccur at "too different" places in anexpression or arguments ~iave combinedcase relations.
The consequence is thatcase relations don't form a set of iso-lated elements but a structured system.I.
IntroductionThe paper is not intended for defendingcase relations in general.
I want tos~e~ch only some problems connected withthe definition of case relations ~ud willdemonstrate consequences, which seempartly a oit "unconventional".I will not enter into the terminolo-gical discussion on deep cases, caserelations etc.
and subsume all thesevariants under the label "case relation".This is justified by the obvious factthat there are more proposals and systemsthan authors.
So one will not overcomethis chaos by neat terminological distinc-tions.
It is rather typical for publica-tions on deep cases that proposals arepresented without sufficient motivationor justification (e. g. Nilsen 1973).It has turned out tha~ in the matterof case relations as a field of linguis-tic and fundamental research intuitionand language competence cannot show theright way how to solve the problems ofdefining them.
This is my first conclu-sion from the general scene.
Withoutdoubt it is inevitable to work out someprinciples on the basis of which caserelations may be defined.
This wouldenable us- to discuss a rather "clear" object(some principles instead of tens (orhundreds) of proposals),- to evaluate and compare existing pro-posals,- to connect case relations with otheressential notions.Quite another question is "What are caserelations good for?".
One cannot ignorethe fact that a lot of serious objectionsagainst case relations have been advanced,covering a whole range from "they areredundant" till "the swamp of lackingplausible (or even formal) definitions"resulting in the conclusion that caserelations are useless especially forcomputational linguistics (Mellema 1974,Luckhardt 1985).
On the other hand manyauthors are advocates pro case relations,even in MT (e. g. Nagao 1986, Somers1986).
Here the character of case rela-tions as a link (or pivot) is stressed -between surface and deep level or betweennguages.
For sucA situations one cancept the use of case relations withoutexact definitions having an experimentalsystem as a touchstone.Case rela~ion~ are considered here asnames or labels of arguments in semantic~ redicates used for the description of verb-)sememes.
This is only one side ofthe coin!
The second important aspect arethe means by which deep cases are ex-pressed at the surface (grammatical cases,prepositions, linear order, ...).
Theyhave to be taken into account as well,and only both aspects together will yieldan adequate picture.2.
Case relations and semantic predicatesOne possibil ity to grasp the wholeproblem seems to be the definition ofcase relations on the basis of semanticpredicates.
Sememes (of vero-lexemes) arerepresented by expressions containingprimitive semantic predicates.
The fol-lowing expression may be assigned to averb like "to convey": (a conveys b fromc to d)(1) MOVE-ACTION(a,b,c,d)=ACAUSE(a,CHANGE-POSITION(b,c,d))(cf.
Allen 1984).
I will not discuss thequestion whether ACAUSE (= "agent caus-ation") and CH~GE-POSITTON are indeed302primitive predicates.
I consider themhere as that.
Furthermore one may discusswhether (5) suff iciently describes themeaning of "to convey".The idea of extracting case relationsfrom representations lige (1) can bebases on the fol lowing principles:(A) For each primitlve predicate P thereis an assignment of exactly one caserelation to every argument place~:zi(P) = r~ (i-th argument of P h~scase relat ion ri)(B) There are modif icat ion rules for caserelations which render it possible to"calculate" the case relations fornested expressions.
(A) means e. g. that for a primitive pre-dicate like CHANGE-POSITION w know thecase relations of the argument places b,c and d:(2) zi(C~JdIGE-POSITION ) = r i for 1 ~ i ~ 3In this sense one can state without doubt(3) Zl(ACAUSE) = agent(~) z3(CHANGE-POSTTION) = goal(B) may be interpreted in the fol lowingway: If we know- MOVE-ACtION has the form given in (1),- the value of z2(ACAUSE),- second place of ACAUSE is f i l led in byCHA2~E-POSITION,- the value of Zl(CHANGE-POSITION),then we know- the value of z2(EOVE-ACTION ), i. e. thecase relation of b in the whole expres-sion (1).Formally this may be expressed by afour-place "modif ication mapping" m:(5) zg(MOVE-ACTION) =m~ACAUSE, z2(ACAUSE), CHANGE-POSIT!ON,z I (CHANGE-POSITION) )One may speculate whether all four argu-ments are indeed necessary, they aresurely no~.
A similar idea is presentedin Thiel 1982 (p. 84 ff.
), where themechanism of modif icat ion is applied,tOO.A general scheme for (B) is thefollowing: Assume one has(6).., s ( .
.
.
, x , .
.
. )
, .
.
.
)where x is the j-th argument in Q,S(...) the k-th argument in R and x the1-th argument in S. Then zg(Q) is afunction of R, Zk(R), S an~ Zl(S ).
Thiel'sproposal, namely zj(Q) = m(R, Zl(S)),would cause some dlfficulties, if R is amany place predicate and there are in Rarguments S' and S" with z I, (S')=Zl,, (S")(cf.
the FEED-example below).
Thiel him-self excludes this case explicitely.The principles (A) and (B) form a re-cursive scheme: (A) provides the resultsfor certain predicates, (B) renders it~ ossible to determine the results for verb-)sememes in general.At arj rage one would get a nice for-malism for calculating case frames if (A)and (B) are fulfil led.
Unfortunately,there are some additional problems I willdeal with below.
But at first T take anexample :(7) SET(a, b, c)= ACAUSE( a, BECOI~\[E ( SIT( b, c) ) )(8) z2(SIT)= locativeBy a simplif ication of the generalscheme (four-place funct ion m as in (5))to the special variant one would obtainfor (7-8):(9) z~(S~.T)= ~m(A CAUSE, m( BECO},~, 1 o cati re) )= m(ACAUSE,dlrective) = directiveThere are arguments for the assumotionthat BECOI~ (and not ACAUSE) modifieslocative to dieective (or goal): Thedescription of "to get to a place"contains the expression(10) BEC01~(BE(b,c)) (as in (7))Here one has the s~ae modif icat ion oflocative to directive.
This is in ac-cordance with Thiel 1982.Instead of (7) one coulc take anotherexpression, e. g. by using the predicateECAUSE (event causation) with the inter-pretat ion that "an activity of a causesBECO~ (S!
T( b, c ) )" :(lq) SE~(a,b,c)= ECAUSE(ACT(a), BECOICE(SIT(b, c)))Here the application of (A) and (B) isnot quite the same, one has here insteadof(12) Zl(SET ) = Zl(ACAUSE ) for (7)a modif icat ion(13) zI(SET) = m(ECAUSE, z~(ACT))m(ECAUSE, a~entiv)= "causator" ?These simple examples i l lustrate someconnections between the formal defini-tion of case relatior.s and semanticpredicates.3.
Ex~pected complicationsNow !
turn so some :~upleasant ques-tions that depress a bit the hope inthis elega~ut solution.
But they aredisagreeable only if one303- maintains the principle "one instance~ er simple clause" for case relat ions cf.
Fi l lmore 1968, Starosta 1981) and- considers case relat ions as a rathersmall set without internal s t ruc ture .For a verb li~e "to swim" in a sentence"like "a swims from b to c" it is reasona-ble to assume a representat ion(1@) SWIM(a) g CHANGE-POSITION(a,b,c)What wo ao if in this example (or anotherof the same type) one detects that(15) Zl(SWIM) @ Zl(CHANGE-POSITION)?Secondly, one needs new rules for h~dl ingan example like(16) ASCERTAIN(a,b)= ACAUSE(a ,BECO~(KNOW(a,b) ) )where a appears twice and at two ratherdifferent places.
One surely cannot assumethat Zl(ACAUSE) is the same relat ion as(17) m( ACAUSE, m( BEC0~{E, z I (~NOW) ) )if one makes the same s impl i f icat ion amfor (7).
Another quest ion appears in(18) FEED( a, b, c) = ACAUSE( a, EAT( b, c) )This time one has two agents (a and b).The next quest ion is due to ref lexiveverbs.
If we ta~e German examples, wehave e. g.(19) Er w~scht s ich $ Er  w~scat ihnas in English, too (himself  ?
him).
Herethe case re lat ion  of "Er" should be amixture between agent ~n~something likeexperiencer or pat iens (cf.
Thiel  1982,p.
10@ f.).
The second components maynot be left out because of the ref lexiveverbs proper in German as "s ich ft\[rchten"(to be afraid, "sich sch~me~' (~o beashamed).
Here the appropriate case rela-t ion is not agent: A "semantic paraphrase"for these verbs is "Etwas macht michf~rchten" (Something makes me afraid)etc.
In my opinion there is no sharpboundary oetween the two types of re-f lexive verbs: Such a cr it ical  case ise.
g. "s ich aufregen" (to ge~ excited).The f i f th quest ion is connected with"p lastered up" case relat ions.
It doesnot make sense to discuss whether one hasin (20) either the case relat ion instru-mental  or locative (cf.
Thiel 1982,p.
10@ f.):(20) I warmed ~he foot on the stove.The same applies for temporal and causalrelat ions in other examples.@.
Some conclusionsFrom the questions and lacking answersone may draw some conclusions:!.
If one defines case relat ions bymeans of semantic predicates as ex-pla ined above, one needs in addit ion atleast one of these two things:- a two-place relat ion " ~ " with in theset of case relations in order to com-pare them according to their "specl -f icness": For certain pairs of caserelat ions r l ,r  2 one has then "r I ~ rp"with the meaning "r I is equal to or -more specif ic than ro" (cf.
the SWIMexample).
In this sense one may saythat e. g. objective is "the semanticalmost neutral  case" (Cook 1971), i. e.one could establ ish case relat ions thatare more specif ic  than the case rela-t ion objective.- a two-place operat ion " @ " for mix ingcase relations: For certain pairs ofcase relat ions r~,r  2 there is a casere lat ion r with ~ = r I ?
r 2 (cf.
theexample (20)).So the set of all case relat ions becomesa structured system: Every case re lat ionstands no longer for itself alone.II.
One cannot derive case relat ions f romsemantic predicates without presupposinga synonymy re lat ion between sememes: Ifone assumes that uhe twJo sentences(21) John sells J im a car.
(22) J im buys a car from John.are synonymous, i. e.(23) SELL(a,b,c) and(24) BUY(b,a,c)have the same representation, then thecase relat ions have to be tae same:(25) Z l (S~)  = z2(BUY) (of a)z2(SELL) Zl(BUY) (of b)If one admits that (21) and (22) are notsynonymous one ma~, have dif ferent caserelations.This aspect is in a sense inde-pendent of the approach proposed here:The same quest ion may be put withoutreference to semantic predicates.
Oneneeds such a synonymy re lat ion at anyrate for case relations.
Obviously thedif ferent intuit ive use of the synonymyis one reason for the rather  chaoticsituation.I!T.
A a iscussion of (23-2@) and (18)shows furthermore that a relat ion oroperat ion ment ioned in T. provides themeans for a d ist inct ion of di f ferentagents as John and Jim in (21-22) orthe two agents in (18): Tn the lattercase b is an " inf luenced agent".
Thishas to be expressed prec ise ly  by themodi f icat ion rules.304ReferencesAllen, J. F. 198@ Towards a GeneralTheory of Action and Time.
In:Artificial Intelligence 23: 123-154.Cook, W. A.
1971 Improvements in CaseGrammar.
In: Language and Linguists,Working Paper Nr.
2, GeorgetownUniversity, Washing$on D. C.Fillmore, Ch.
1968 The case for case.In: Bach, E., Harms, R. T., Eds.,Universals in Linguistin Theory,Holt, Rinehart and Winston, NewYork: 1-88.Fillmore, Ch.
1977 The case for casereopened.
In: Cole, P., Sadoc~, J.
M.,Eds., Syntax and Semantics 8:Grammatical Relations, AcademicPress, New York: 59-82.Koch, W. 1978 Kasus - Kognition - Kausa-liter.
Lunder germanistiscae For-schungen 47, C~ Gleerup, Lurid.Luckhardt, H.-D. 1985 Valenz und Tiefen-~asus in der maschinellen $0erset-zung.
CL-Report No @, Sonderfor-scaungsbereich 100, Teilprojekt A2,Universit~t des Saarlandes, Saar-brGc~en.~ellema, P. 197@ A Brief Against CaseGrammar.
In: Foundations of Language11 : 39-76.Nagao, M. 1986 Current Status and FutureTrends in Hachine Translation.
In:Future Generations Computer Systems2(1986): 77-82.Nilsen, D. L. F. 1973 The InstrumentalCase in English.
Mouton, The Hague.Somers, H. L. 1986 The need for MT-ori-ented versions of Case and Valencyin MT.
In: Proceedings COLING-86:118-123.Starosta, St. 1981 Die "l-Pro-Sent"-LS-sung.
In: Pleines, J.
Ed., Bei~r~gezum Stand der Kasus~heorie, GunterNarr, TGbingen: 45-1@7.Thiel, M. 1982 Zur Verwendung der Kasus-gramzatik im faktenorientiertenInformation Retrieval yon Textdaten.Spracae und Information, vol.
2,Niemeyer, TGbingen.Address of the author:Prof. Dr. Jttrgen KunzeZ~ ft~r Sprachwissenschaft der AdW der DDRPrenzlauer Promenade I@9-152BerlinDDR-qlO0305
