MULTILEVEL SEMANTIC ANALYSIS IN AN AU'I~MATICSPEECH UNDERSTANDING AND DIALOG SYSTEMUte EhrlichLehrstuhl f\[ir Inforrmtik 5 (Mustererkeunung)Universitat Erlangen-NfirnbergMartensstr.
3, 8520 Erlangen, F. IL GermanyABSTRACTAt our institute a speech understanding and dialog system isdeveloped.
As an example we model an information system fortimetables and other information about intercity trains.In understanding spoken utterances, additional problems arise dueto pronunciation variabilities and vagueness of the word recognitionprocess.
Experiments so far have also shown that the syntacticalanalysis produces a lot more hypotheses instead of reducing thenumber of word hypotheses.
The reason for that is the possibility o!combining nearly every group of word hypotheses which areadjacent with respect to the speech signal to a syntactically correctconstituent.
Also, the domain independent semantic analysis cannotbe used for filtering, because a syntactic sentence hypothesisnormally can be interp.reted in several different ways, respectively aset of syntactic hypotheses for constituents can be combined to a lotof semantically interpretible sentences.
Because of thiscombinatorial explcaiun it seems to be reasonable to introducedomain dependent and contextual knowledge as early as possible,also for the semantic analysis.
On the other hand it would be moreefficient prior to the whole semantic interpretation f each syntactichypothesis or combination of syntactic hypotheses to find possiblecandidates with less effort and interpret only the more probableOnes.1.
IntroductionIn the speech understanding and dialog system EVAR (Niemannet al 1985) developed at our institute there are four differentmodules for understanding an utterance of the user (Brietzmaun1984): the syntactic analysis, the task-independent semanticanalysis, the domain-dependent pcagmatic analysis, and anothermodule for dialog-specific aspects.
The semantic module disregardsnearly all of the thematic and situational context.
Only isolatedutterances are analyzed.
So the main points of interests are thesemantic onsistency of words and the underlying relational structureof the sentence.
The analysis of the functional relations is based onthe valency and case theory (Tesniero 1966, Fillmore 1967).
In thistheory the head verb of the sentence determines how many noungroups or prel:csitional groups are needed for building up asyntactically correct and semantically consistent sentence.
For theseslots in a verb frame further syntactic and semantic restrictions canalso be given.2.
Semtntic and Progmstic ConsistencySemantic ConsistencyThe semantic knowledge of the module consists of lexicalmeanings of words and selectional restrictior~ between them.
Theserestrictions are possible for a special word, fur example thepreposition ' ach' ('to Hamburg') requires a noun with the meamngLOCation.
In the case of a frame they are for a whole constituent;for example, the verb 'wchnen' ('to live in Hamburg') needs apreposition~l group also with the me'~ning LOCation.The selectional restrictions are expressed in the dictionary by thefeature SELECTION.
The semantic classes (features) arehierarchically organized in a way, so that all subclasses of a class alsoare accepted as compatible.
For example, if a word with thesemantic lass CONcrete is required, also a word with the classANimate (a subclass of CONcrete) or with the class HUman (asubclass of ANimate) is accepted.CONcrete ABStractTHln8 LOCation ANimate Wl38 th CLAss | fy I ng TIHe1\ / \  TRAnsport ~ / "~1Fig.
1: Semantic lassification of nouns (part)In Fig.
1 a part or our semantic lassification system for nouns isshown.
For each prepo~tiun or adjective there can be determinedwith which nouns they could be combined.
That is done by selectingthe semantic class of the head noun of a noun group or prepositionalgroup.
For example 'in' in its temporal meaning can be used withnouns asFig.
2 shows, how this system could be used to solve ambiguities.84For example:coachcoach.l.l: .
'railway carriage"CLAS~ TRAnsport, LOCationcoach.l.2: "privat tutor, trainer in athletics"CLASS: ACtingPersoninin.l.l: "in the evening"CLASS: DURationSELECTION: TIMein.l.2: "in the room"CLASS: PLAceSELECTION: LOCationFig.
2: Semantic Interpretation f "in the coech"Although there are 4 possibilities for combining the words intheir different meanings only one possibility ( in.l.2 I coach.l.l ) issemantic onsistent.At this time no sooting is provided for 'how compatible' a groupof words is, only if  it is semantically consistent or not.Pragmatic ConsistencyBecause of the above mentioned combinatorial explosion it seemsto be useful to integrate also at this task-independent stage of theanalysis ome domain dependent information.This pragmatic inforn~tion should be handled with as few effortas possible.
On the other side the effect as a filter should also be asgood as possible.
What is not intended is to introduce here a firststructural analysis but to decide whether a group of wordspragmatically fit together or not, only dependent on special featuresof the words itself.For this reason here it is tried to check the pragmatic onsistencyof groups of words or constituents and give them a pragmaticpriority.
This priority is not a measure for correctness of thehypothesis, but determines in which order pragmatically checkedhypotheses hould be further analyzed.
It indicates, whether allwords of such a group can be interpreted in the same pragmaticconcept, and how much the set of possible pragmatic oncepts couldbe restricted.In our system the pragmatic (task-specific) knowledge isrepresented in a semantic network (Brielzmarm 1984) as is theknowledge of the semantic module.
The network scheme isinfluenced by the formalism of Stuetured Inheritance Networks(Brachman 1978).
In this pragmatic network at the time six types ofinformation inquiries are modelled.
Each of these concepts for aninforrmtion type has as attributes the information that is needed tofind an answer for an inquiry of the user.
For example, the concept'timetable information' has an attribute 'From time' which specifiesthe range of time during which the departure of the train should be(see Fig.
3).
This attribute could linguistically be realized forexample with the word 'tomorrow'.~ '=.
'7 >=t reeI cavedepmr  LureI connect ,  i on  II C3..Ass / ?y lnO v, I/40Yemen t v Sra  Tei"t ra in  II I n te rc l  ty  t ra infas t  t ra in  It re ,~,por  t~on ~ par t E>r-- ~ ,?,,r Lomorrow Ii ear lytuesday II next"?iMe ILFig.
3: Pragmatic Network (Part)dln ln i -car  lf re lRht-carI I onJ\[ s leep ing-car  Ipassenger--I wagon7"HlnO vI LOCa t I on  Ie 1 MuenchenI E r langenNuernberg II L 'dCa~Jon  I85when (TIMe)doesthenexttrainleaveforHamburgtrain timetableconnection informationSENTENCE 0 1train railroad passenger city time pP(w)ear wagon interval1 0 0 0 0 1 21 1 1 1 1 I 71 1 1 1 1 1 71 0 0 0 0 1 21 1 0 0 0 0 31 0 0 0 0 0 2I 1 1 1 1 1 71 0 0 0 1 0 30 0 0 0 0 1Fig.
4: "When does the next  train leave for  Hamburg?
"For many words in the dictionary a possible set of pragmaticconcepts can be determined.
With this property of words for eachword a pragmatic bitvector pbv(w) is defined.
Each bit of such abitvector represents a concept of the pragmatic network.
It thereforehas as its length the number of all concepts (at the time 193).
In thisbitvector a word w has "I" for the following concepts:For concepts that could be realized by the word and allgeneralizations of that concept.For all concepts and their specializations for which theconcepts of 1. can be the domain of an attribute.If the word belongs to the basic lexicon, i.e.
the part of thedictionary that is needed for nearly every domain (forexample pronouns or determiners), it gets the "l" withrespect o their semantic lass.
For this there exists amapping function to pragmatic concepts.
For example,all such words which belong to the semantic class TIMe(as 2. to the concept 'time interval' which could berealized by these words.In many cases (for example determiners) all bits are set-to "l'.The pragmatic bitvector of a group of words wl ... wn is then:pbv(wl ... v-n) := pbv(wl) AND pbv(w2) ... AND pbv(wn)The pragmatic priority pP(wl  ... wn) is defined as the number of"1" in pbv(wl ... wn) and has the following properties:* If the pragn~tic priority of a group of words = O, then thegroup is pragmatically inconsistent.
* The smaller the priority the better the hypothesis with thesewords.
* The bits of the pragn~tic bit'vector determine which pragmaticconcept and especially which information type was realized.To make use of contextually determined expectations aboutthe following user utterance the pragmatic interpretation ofgroups of words can be restricted with:pbv(wl ... wn) AND pbv('timetable information')has to be >0where pbv('timetable information') is the bitvector for the pragmaticconcept 'timetable information' and has the "1" only for the conceptitself.An example for pragmatic bitvectors and priorities pP(w) is given inFig.
4.3.
ScoringA nmin problem in reducing the amount of hypotheses forfurther analysis is to find appropriate scores, so that only thehypotheses that are 'better' than a special given limit have to beregarded further.
In the semantic module different ypes of scoresare used"* Reliability scores from the other modules.
* A score indicating how much of the speech signal is covered bythe hypothesis.
* The pragmatic priority.
* A score indicating how many slots of a case frame are filled.For determining this score a function is used that takes intoaccount that a hypothesis does not become always moreprobable the more parts of a sentence are realized.
Alsohypotheses built of only short consitutents (i.e.
mostlypronouns or adverbs) are less probable.4, Stages of Semantic AnalysisAt the present time the semantic analysis has three stages.To demonstrate he analysis here an English example is chosen.
Itis an invented one for we only analyse Gerrmn spoken speech.
InFig.
5 the result of the syntactic analysis is shown: all constituentsthat are one upon another are competing with regard to the speechsignal.
To find sentences covering at least most of the range of thespeech signal there can be only combined groups of constituentstogether that are not competing to each other.4.1 Local Interpretation of ConstituentsA constituent (hypothesized by the syntax module) is checked tosee whether the selectional restrictions between all of its words areobserved.
Only if this is true (i.e.
the constituent is semanticallyconsistent), and the constituent is also pragmatically consistent, is itregarded for further semantic analysis.Selectional restrictions are defined in the lexicon by the attributeSELECTION.
For the local interpretation all selectional restrictiomthat are given by some words in a constituent to some others in thesame constituent have to be proved.
There are especially restrictionsgiven by words of special word classes which can be combined withnouns and can restrict the whole set of nouns to a smaller set bysemantic means, i.e.
the prepositions ( ee the exan-~le of Fig.
2), theadjectives or even the numbers.
In the above example allconstituents with a '~" are rejected.86zwant to {~o I a f i r s t  c lass  coachwhat does m durinR a f i r s t  c lass  coachwhen I wi th  the next  t ra in  x a fas t  s ta t ionI ,e vo H mbu, lthe next train\[ is~ to H_amburs.~e~me/Tt$ o.: Lhe speech $ig,'Talc:>Fig.
5: Constituent hypotheses generated by the syntax moduleTo give a view about how many syntactic constituentssemantically are not correct see Fig.
6.
The experiments here shownbase on real word hypotheses, but for the syntactic analysis only thebest word hypotheses are used (between 35 and 132 for a sentenceout of more than 2000), All hypotheses about the really spokenwords are added.number ofexperinaentlimit0250246a246b55185520totalsyntacticconstituents21192882052802471033semantic rejectedcomistent constituentsconstituents18 14 %I12 41%65 26%104 49 %155 44 %150 39 %604 41%Fig 6: Results of the local interpretation4.2 Pre-S?lectlon of Groups of H~qpothescsThe next step is to build up sentences out of the semanticconsistent constituents.
This is not done by the syntax modulebecause there exist too many possibilities to combine the syntacticconstituents o syntactically correct sentences (there exist nearly norestrictions that are independent of semantic features).
On the otherhand there is always the difficulty with gain in the speech signal(i.e.
not or only with low priority with regard to other hypothesesleave1.
I obl opt opt opt2. )
TRAnsport LOCation CONcrete TIHe~/  NG PNG NG ADVG4./ case: prep is case: prep isnominative DIRection accu- HOMentsaLiveFig.
7: The case frame or "to leave"found but really spoken words).
For this reason this analysis is doneby the semantic module with additional syntactic knowledge.The analysis is based on the valency and case theory.
All verbs,but also some nouns and adjectives are associated with case frameswhich describe the dependencies between the word itself (i.e.
thenucleus of the frame) and the constituents with which it could becombined.
Such a case frame describes also the underlying relationalstructure.
The frames are represented in a semantic net (seeBrielzmann 1984).Fig.
7 shows an example.
The word "to leave" has one obligatoryactant with the functional role INSTRUMENT and two optionalactants (GOAL and OBJECT).
Beside the actants there exist theadjuncts which could be combined with nearly every verb.
In theexample there is shown only T IME for that is very important for ourapplication, the information about intercity trains.
There aredifferent types of restrictions:I. the information if the actant is obligatory or optional2.
the semantic restriction for the nucleus of the comtituent3.
the (syntactic) type of the constituent4.
these are features that exist especially in German: the case of anoun group, for prepositional groups a set of prepositions thatbelong to a certain semantic class or a special preposition.If only I.)
and 2.)
is used, at least the in Fig.
8 shown sentencescould be hypothesized for the example.First experiments have shown that it is nearly impossible to useonly the network formalism for finding sentences because of thecombinatorial explosion.
On the other hand the process ofinstantiation does not cope with the posibility that also the nucleusof a case frame will not be found always.
Therefore the pre-selection isadded to handle these problems.The idea is to seek first for groups of constituents which couldestablish a sentence.
What should be avoided is that the same groupof hypotheses is analyzed in several different contexts and that toomany combinations have to be checked.
So the dictionary isorganized in a way that all acrants of all frames with the sameserrantic restriction and the same type of constituent are representedas one class.
These classes are than grouped together to combinationswhich can appear together in at least one case frame.
Eachcombination has in addition the information in which case frame itcan appear.87want logo  ;(AGENT I ...
I T IME I GOAL)1) I I want to go I tomorrow I to Hamburg.2) I I want to go I tomorrow I for Hamburg.3) I \[ want to go \] tomorrow I Hamburg.a ticket :( ...
I EXPL ICAT ION)4) a ticket I to Hamburgthe next  train :( -.
I GOAL)7) the next train I to HamburgCOSTS :(MEASURE I ...
I OBJECt)10) what I costs I a ticket to Hamburgl l )  what I cos= I the next train to Hamburg12) what I costs I Hamburga connection :( .- I  GOAL)13) a connection I to Hamburgthere ... is .
"( ...
I OBJECT )15) there I a connection I is I to Hamburgdoes ... leave :( TIME I ...
I INSTRUMENT I .-- I GOAL I OBJECT )17) when I does I the next train I leave I to Hamburg18) when I does I with the next train I leave I to Hamburg19) when I does I the next train I leave I I Hamburg20) when I does I the next train I leave I for HamburgFig.
8: Sentence hypothesesWith this last information a found group of words could also beaccepted if the nucleus is not found.
It is even possible to predict aset of nuclei.
These could he used as top-down hypotheses for thesyntax module or the word recognition module.For example for "to leave":INSTRUMENT--> NG-TraGOAL --> PNG-LocOBJECT --> NG-ConThe combinations are then:(NG-Tra)(NG-Tra PNG-Loe)(NG-Tra NG-Con)(NG-Tra PNG-Loe NG-Con)(PNG-Loe NG-Con)These combinations do not say anything about sequential order,for, in German, word-order is relatively free.
The last possibility isregarded although such a sentence would he grammaticallyincomplete (the I~UMENT slot is obligatory) to cope with thefact that not all uttered words are recognized by the wordrecognition module.
To reduce the number of combinations thesecond combination will be eliminated because the class TRAnsportis a specialization of CONcrete (see Fig.
1) and the combination isthen also represented by the last possibility.
So there ariseambiguities that have to be solved in the last step of the analysis, theinstantiation of frames.I f  this method is applied to a dictionary that cont~in~ all of thewords used in the above example the result is the following list ofcombinations (instead of 14 possibilities, i f  nothing is drawntogether):(NG-Con) --> go, cost, leave(NG-Abs) --> cost, there._is(PNG-Loe) --> ticket, train, go(PNG-Loe NG-Con) --> go, leave(PNG-Loe NG-Tra NG-Lo?)
--> leave(NG-Wor Ng-Thi) - -> costDuring the first stage of the analysis the serramtic consistentconstituents are sorted to the above used classes (see Fig.
9) so that aconstituent is attached to all classes with which it is semanticallycompatible and agrees with respect o the constituent type.So the problem of finding instances for the above combinationsreduces to combining each element of the set of hypotheses attachedto one class to each element of the set of hypotheses attached to thesecond class of the combination, and so on.
If one combinationcomprises another, for example (PNG-Lcx:) and (PNG-Loe NG-Con), the earlier result is used (the seek is organized as a tree).Restrictions for combining are given by the fact that twohypotheses cannot he competing with regard to the speech signal andby the fact that the found group of words has to he pragmaticallyconsistent.To complete these groups there is also tried to f'md temporaladjuncts to each of them (out of the original group and the so foundnew groups only the best will be furthermore treated as hypotheses).As temporal adjuncts there will be used all constituents which arecompatibal with the semantic class "l'INte and chains of suchconstituents with length of not more than 3 (for example "tomorrow Imorning", "tomorrow I morning I at 9 o' clock').
Up to now no moreinforn'ation is used but in the future there will be a module thatchooses only in the dialog context interpretable chains of temporaladjuncts.With this second step of semantic analysis in Fig.
8 all sentencesbut 3, 11 and 18 are hypothesized.
3 and 17 are rejected because theconstituent type is not correct, 11 is not pragmatically compatibal.All sententces in Fig.
8 satisfy the semantic restrictions.There have been made also experiments that consider in additionsimple rules of word order.
They cannot he very specific because inGerman nearly each word order is allowed, especially in spoken88NG-Abs NG-Con NG=l.xx: NG=Thi NG=Trawhata connectiona first classcoachwhatthe next trainIHamburga ticketwhatHamburga first classcoachwhatthe next traina ticketa first classcoachNG-Wor PNG-Locwhat whatthe next trainto Hamburgfor HamburgFig.
9:.
Constituents sorted to actant-classesspeech.
But nethertheless the experiments so far indicate that about athird of all groups are rejecmd with this criterion (for example thesentence 15 in Fig.
8).All found groups of hypotheses get the above mentioned scoresand are ordered with regard to it.ResultsThe results here presented are based on the following utterances(for the conditions of the experiments see also section 4.1):246a Welche Verbindung kann ich nelmmn?
(Which connectionshould I choose?
)246b Hat dieser Zug auch einen Speisewagen?
(Has this train also adining-car?
)0250 Ich moechte am Freitng moeglichst frueh in Bonn sein.
(I wantto be at Bonn on Friday as early as possible.
)5518 Er kostet z.elm Mark.
(It costs ten marks).5520 Wit mcechten am Wochenende nach Mainz fahren.
(We want togo to Mainz at the weekend.)Fig.
10 shows how many groups Of hypotheses were founddependent on the number of word hypotheses per segment in thespeech signal (each segment represents one phon).
The experimentshere have been made by using as restrictions for the combinationsLegend :1 without pbv~.
.
.w i th  pbv.
.
word  order  ~o001|I001.
the semantic lasses and the type of the constituents (withoutpbv)2. the semantic lasses, the type of the constituents and pragmaticattributes using the pragmatic bitvectors (with pbv)3. the same conditions as in 2., but in addition some word orderrestrictions are checked (word order).The really spoken utterances are always found but in soma caseswith a very bad score with respect o competing hypotheses.
Themain reasons for this result and the often high number of hypothesesare:* The analysis of the time adjuncts is too less restrictive.Therefore in the future there will be only used constituents orchains of constituents hat can really be interpreted in the dialogcontext as a time intervall or a special moment.
So hypotheses a'yesterday I then I tommorow' or 'at nine o' clock I next year' nolonger are accepted.
The referred tirae should also lie in thenear future (because of our application).
* Anaphora could fill (nearly) each slot in each frame (similar asthe constituent 'what' in Fig.
9).
On the other hand they areoften very short.
So they appear in many combinations withother constituents.
For an anaphoric constituent must have areferent which it represents (for example the constituent 'it' in5518 could possibly refer to 'ticket'), such constituents shouldI0I , I I I1.5 2 2.~ 3 3.5 4 4 ~ 5.5 ~ 8.5Fig.
10: Results of the pre-selection89obtain the semantic and pragmatic attributes of the possiblereferents - or, if there are none, should not be regarded forfuture analysis.This method will first reduce the number of hypotheses andsecond will improve the score of a sentence with anaphoricconstituents if it was really spoken (or also if it is wellinterpretable).4.3 Structural InterpretationThe last step consists in trying to instantiate the found candidatesin the semantic network of the module (Briel2mann 1984 and 1986).Here all other selectionfl restrictions (i.e.
especially the syntacticones) are checked and thus the amount of hypotheses can be reduceda little bit more.
Also the ambiguities have to be solved (see above).As a result there are gained instances of frame concepts which arethe input for further domain dependent analysis by the pragmaticmodule.This step (the instantiation) now is in work.
All others arerunnable.5.
ConclusionIn this paper a semantic analysis for spoken speech is presented.The most important additional problem which arises in comparison toa written input is the combinatorial explosion due to the many wordhypotheses produced by the word recognition module.
Because ofthis problem one has to cope with many word ambiguities.
Forsolving these problems we need scores.Problems arise with time adjuncts and anaphora.
Alsohierarchically structured sentences cannot be analyzed with themethod of pre-selection of groups, for exampl~"Could you please look for the best connection to Hamburg?
"could lookJ JI Jyou for the best connectionIIto HamburgUntil now two combinations are found but they have bad scoresbecause they cover too 1~ of the speech signal.
They cannot becombined together.Could I you I look I for the best connectionandfor the best connection I to HamburgIt is planned to expand the pre-selection i a way that also thisproblem could be solved.The semantic analysis is implemented in LISP at a VAX 11/730.REFERENCESR.J.
Brachmam A Structural Paradigm for Representing Knowledge.BBN Rep. No 3605.
Revised version of Ph.D. Thesis,Harvard University, 1977.A.
Br ie~nn:  Semantische und pragn~tisohe Analyse im ErlangerSpracherkennungsprojekt.
Dissertation.
Arbeitsberichtedes Instimts ffir Mathematische Maschinen undDatenverarbeitung (IMMD), Band 17(5).
Erlangen.A.
Brietzmann, U. Ehrlich: The Role of Semantic Processing in anAutomatic Speech Understanding System.
In: l lthInternational Conference on Computational Linguistics,Bonn, p.596-598.H.
Niemann, A. Br ie~,  R. Mfihlfeld, P. Regal, E.G.
SchukatThe Speech Understanding and Dialog System EVAP,.
In:New Systems and Architectures for Automatic SpeechRecognition and Synthesis, R.de Mori & C.Y.
Suen (eds).NATO ASI Series FI6, Berlin, p. 271-302.This work was carried out in cooperation withSiermm AG, Mfinchen90
