S ITUAT IONS AND PREPOSIT IONAL  PHRASESErik Colban and Jens Erik FenstadUniversity of OsloInstitute of MathematicsPostboks 1053 BlindernN-0316 Oslo 3, NorwayABSTRACTThis paper presents a format for representing thelinguistic form of utterances, called situationschemata, which is rooted in the situation semanticsof Barwise and Perry.
A treatment of locativeprepositional phrases is given, thus illustrating thegeneration of the situation schemata and theirinterpretation i  situation semantics.I n t roduct ionA natural language system aims to provide anoverall framework for relating the linguistic form ofutterances and their semantic interpretation.
And therelation between the two must be algorithmic.
In thispaper we pursue an approach which is based on analgorithm for converting linguistic form to a formatwhich we call a situation schema.A situation schema has a well-def'med formalstructure, suggestive of logical form.
This is astructure which is different from the standard model-theoretic one; we will argue that it is a structure betteradapted for the analysis of the meaning relation innatural anguages.
A situation schema is effectivelycalculable from the linguistic form and we believethat it provides a format usefull for furtherprocessing, e.g.
in the construction of a naturallanguage interface with a data system and also inconnection with mechanical translation systems.The genera l  s t ruc ture  o f  s i tuat ionschemataWe begin by explaining the general structure ofthe situation schemata nd how they, are rooted in thesituation semantics of Barwise and Perry (Barwiseand Perry 83).Situation semantics is grounded in a set ofprinutivesS situationsR relationsL locationsD individualsThe format of a bas/c (located)fact isat I: r, al,...,an; 1at 1: r, al ..... an; 0,the first expresses that at the location 1 in L therelation r in R holds of the individuals al ..... an in D;the second expresses that it does not hold.A s/mat/an s in S determines a set of facts of theformin s:at l:r, al  ..... an; 1orin s:at l:r, al  ..... an; 0.We can think of a situation s as a kind ofrestricted, partial model (data base) which classifiescertain basic facts.
The set of primitives <S,L,R,D>may come with some internal structure, e.g.
the set Lof locations is or represents connected regions ofspace time and thus could be endowed with a richgeometric structure.
We shall see how this can beexploited in our analysis of locative prepositionalphrases.A situaion schema is a complex feature-valuestructure computable from the linguistic form of theutterance and with a choise of features matching theprimitives of situation semantics:"RELARG1 -AEEm -LOC.POL  -Here the features REL  ARG1,...,ARGn, arid LOCcorrespond to the primitives: relation, individuals,258location.
POL, abbreviating polarity, takes either thevalue 1 or 0.
The values in the schemata can either beatomic or complex feature-value structures.
The valueof the LOC feature is always complex.The interpretation of a situation schema is relativeto an utterance situation u and a described situation s.The utterence situation decomposes into two partsd discourse situationc the speaker's connectionsThe discourse situation contains information aboutwho the speaker is, who the addressee is, the sentenceuttered, and the discourse location.
The latterinformation is necessary to account for the tense of asentence.
The speaker's connections is a mapdetermining the speaker's meaning of lexical items.The meaning of a sentence ~1 is a relation betweenthe utterance situation u (=d,c) and a describedsituation s.We write this relationd,c \ [srr .
,h\]  s,where SIT.
t)lden?tes the situation schema of 01.Remark.
In other works, e.g.
(Fenstad et.
al.
87), wehave developed the mathematical study of thestructures <S,L,R,D>; in particular, severalaxiomatization theoremes have been proved, providinga complete inference mechanism for a multi-sortedlogic based on a semantics of partial information.Since the model theory of these sU'uctures seems tobe a natural formalism for a (relational) data basetheory, it would be interesting tobuild a PROLOG-style system based on the proof-theory which wehave developed.Oblique objects and adjunctsIn the next section the general theory will beillustrated by the analysis of a couple of sentences thatcontain locative prepositional phrases.
In this sectionwe make some preliminary emarks.
See (Colban 85)or (Fenstad eL al.
87) for more details.
The PP's weconsider here are all attached to a verb (not a nounphrase), and will be divided into two classes: obliqueobjects and adjuncts (Kaplan and Bresnan 82).
Anoblique object fills one of the argument slots of theverb if one considers the verb to be a relation with afixed number of arguments.
In e.g.
the sentence 'Tomhanded the book to Anne" the verb handed is aternary relation with arguments Torn, the book and,one migth say, Anne.
However, we will consider thethird argument to be something that has to be in therelation to to Anne.
An oblique object is thus aconstraint on an (unexpressed) argument of the verb.This way a verb may have several oblique objectswithout the number of arguments necessarelyincreasing.
In the sentence ''Tom sent a letter fromNorway to France" both from Norway and toFrance are constraints on the same argument.Adjuncts function normally by restricting ormodifying the relation expressed by the verb.Examples are: "Tom played with Anne " and "Tomate in a hurry. "
Sometimes the location where therelation takes place is modified and not the relationitself.
In e.g.
'Tom ran to the car" the location will berestricted to be in the relation to to the car.
Thisrelation will hold if the location is a curve Izacing thetrajectory in space-time that ends at the (location of)the car.The situation schemata in the examples below havebeen produced by a parser for LFG-grammars.Usually, f-structures are produced by such a parser,but we have written a grammar that causes ituationschemata obe produced instead.ExamplesExamvle 1:?1: Peter ran to the car.The situation schema S1T.~I is:"gEL maARG1 PeterI,OCINDCONDIND2"REL < \]AI~I IND 2.AP4~210"REL toAP4~I IND2lIND IND1/ /A I mD| LPOLLSPEC THE.POL 1.POL 1259The PP is here taken as an adjunct since ran is aunary relation.
The values of the ARGi in theschemata can either be direct references to individuals(e.g.
Peter) or /ndeto-m/nates with or withoutassociated constraints (e.g.
10, IND1, IND2).
Theindeterminates have to be anchored to individuals orlocations in such a way that the conslraints hold in thedescribed situation.
The ARG2 in the secondconstraint of SIT.O I 'LOC'COND is:COND \[REL carARG1 INDLFOLLSPEC THEThis schema tells us that IND1 has to be anchoredto an individual a that must be a car.
The SPECfeature can either be used to pick out the unique car inthe described situation or to make a generalizedquantifier out of ARG2.
The situation schemata arehence open to several interpretations.The LOC feature in this schema has the structure:l IND IND2 \] COND {---}The location is tied to a location indeterminateIND2.
The COND feature is a set (notice the setbrackets) of constraints on IND2.
The first oneexpresses that ND2 must be anchored to a location Ithat temporally precedes the location that 10 getsanchored to.
By convention 10 is always anchored tothe discourse location Id.
This constraint accounts forthe past tense of ran.
In the second constraint hesemantics of to tells us that 1 must be a curve inspace-time that ends at the location of a.
The head-relation run in SIT.~ 1 asserts that the individualnamed Peter is in the state of running along thetrajectory 1.
An interesting project would be to furnishthe domain L of locations with a set of "primitive"relations which could be used to spell out the meaningof the different prepositions.
For the moment he onlyprimitive relation on L that has been accounted for inthe axiomatizatlon of the structure <S,L,R,D> is "<",the relation "temporally precedes.
"A more precise interpretation f S1T.O 1 is:The relation d,c \[S1T.O1 \] s holds if and only ifthere exists an anchor g on S1T.~ I'I'?X~, i.e.~0) :  ldg(IND2) < g(1 O)andanextensienf  o g  that anchorsIND1such that f ( IND1)  is the unique individualsuch that in s: c(car),f(IND1); 1such thatin s: c(to), gtlND2),f(IND1); Iins: at g(IND2 ): c(run), c(Peter); INote that relations between locations can easily beextended to include individuals among theirarguments.
This is done by introducing a function/oc~f from D to L mapping individuals on theirlocations.
A relation r between locations is extendedto a relation r '  where some of the arguments areindividuals by letting:r', .... al, ...; pol ~f  r ..... loc.ofla i), ...; pol.Examole 2:(;2: The book was lying on th~ ~bl~.The situation schema SIT.02 is:"REL lieIND IND1REL book \]AROl COND A I~I  IND1l LPOL 1LSI~C THE"INDAR~ COND'IND5REL onARG1 IND5l IND IND4,,I.POL Ir o o2 \]\]\]/COND 1/A 1 IND2L LLARG2 IO,POL 1260The PP gets here two readings; one as an adjunctand one as an oblique object, but we have omitted theadjunct reading since it isn't natural.
The relation lietakes two arguments: ARG1 end ARG3.
Theindeterminate IND2 must be anchored to a locationthat temporally precedes the discourse location.
IND1must be anchored to an individual a l  which is theunique book in the discourse situation, and ~ mustbe anchored to an indivildual a2 which is the uniquetable in the discourse situation.
SIT.~2.ARG3.CONDforces IND5 to be anchored to an individual a3 suchthat the relation on holds between a3 and a2.
Therelation lie will hold between a l  and a3 if a l  is lyingand the locations of a l  and a3 are the same.A precise interpretation is:The relation d,c \[SIT.02\] s holds if and only ifthere xists an anchor g on SIT.~b2.L(X~, i.e.g:lo)-- tdg(IND2) < g(l O)and an extension fo f  g that anchors IND1, IND4and IND5such thatf(IND1) is the unique individualsuch that/n s: c(book),fllND1); 1andfllND4) is the unique individualsuch that/n s: c(table),fllND4); 1such thatin s: c(on),/(IND5)j?IND4); 1in s: at g(IND2): c(lie),f(IND1),f(INDS); IREFERENCES\[1\] J. Barwise and J. Perry (1983), Situations andAttitudes, MIT Press.\[2\] E. Colban (1985), LFG & preposisjonsfraser i f-strukturer og situasjonsskjemaer (Norwegian)Cand.scient thesis, University of Oslo.\[3\] J.E.
Fensta& P.K.
Halvorsen, T. Langholm, Lvan Benthem (1987) Situations, Languages and Logic,Reidel.
(Preliminary version: Report 29,CSLI,Stanford University).\[4\] R. Kaplan and J. Bresnan (1982), Lexical-Functional Grammar: A Formal System forGrammatical Representation, i  J. Bresnan (1982),The Mental Representation of GrammaticalRealations, M1T Press.\[5\] S.M.
Shieber(1986), An Introduction toUnification-Based Approaches to Grammar, CSLILecture Notes No.4, Stanford.Final remarksThis analysis has been implemented on a XEROX1109/1186.
Other fragments have been implementedusing the D-PATR format.
In a study of directquestions (E. Vestre) it turned out to be advantageousto use a DCG-grammar and a PROLOG-implementation.
The spirit of the algorithms arehowever the same, unification and constraintpropagation (see (Shieher 86) for a generaldiscussion).
We are now studying the problem of textgeneration based on situation schemata augmented bycertain pattern information.261
