FINITE STATE PROCESSING OF TONE SYSTEMSDafydd Gibbon(U Bielefeld)ABSTRACTIt is suggested in this paper that two- leve lmorphology theory (Kay, Koskenniemi) can be ex-tended to include morphological tone.
This exten-sion treats phonological features as I/O tapes forFinite State Transducers in a parallel sequentialincrementation (PSI) architecture; phonologicalprocesses (e.g.
assimilation) are seen as variants ofan elementary unification operation over featuretapes (linear unification phonology, LUP).
Thephenomena analysed are tone terracing withtone-spreading (horizontal assimilation), down-step, upstep, downdrift, upsweep in two West Afri-can languages, Tem (Togo) and Baule (C6ted'Ivoire).
It is shown that an FST acccount leadsto more insightful definitions of the basic pheno-mena than other approaches (e.g.
phonologicalrules or metrical systems).1.
Descriptive contextThe topic of this paper is tone sandhi in twoWest African tone languages and suitable formalmodels for it.
The languages investigated are Tern(Gur/Voltaic family, Togo) and Baule (Akan fami-ly, C6te d'Ivoire).
Tone languages of other types,in particular the Sino-Tibetan languages, will notbe discussed.The specific concern of this paper is with theway in which certain quite wel l -known morpho-phonological (lexical) tone patterns are realized insequence in terms of phonetic pitch patterns.
Thereare three interacting factors involved: i. tone- textassociation rules; ii.
tone-sandhi  rules; iii.
phone-tic interpretation rules.Tone- text  association rules are concerned withthe association of tones with syllables (primaryassociations and a form of tone spreading) as wellas floating tones and compound tones.
Floatingtones are not associated with syllables, but are po-stulated to explain appparent irregularities in pho-netic patterning in terms of regular tone sandhiproperties.The tone sandhi rules define how tones affecttheir neighbours.
The example to be treated here isa kind of tonal assimilation known as tonal sprea-ding in which low tones are phonetically raisedfollowing a high tone or, more frequently, hightones are lowered after a low tone, either to thelevel of the low tone (total downstep) or to a midlevel (partial downstep).
The newly defined tone isthen the reference point for following tones.The latter kind of assimilation produces a cha-racteristic perceptual, and experimentally measu-rable, effect known as tone terracing.
Tone se-quences are realized at a fairly high level at thebeginning of a sequence, and at certain we l l -defined points the whole pitch register appears "tobe downstepped to a new level.
The process maybe iterated several times.
It is often represented inthe literature in the following way (partial down-step); it can be seen that a later high tone may beas high as or lower than an earlier low tone:hhh l lhh l lhhIn particular, it will be seen that the two ter-raced tone languages, Tem and Baule, involve si-milar processes in detail and have similar basicFST architectures, but differ systematically at cer-tain wel l -def ined points involving sandhi generali-ty, and scope of sandhi context.291Detailed phonetic interpretation i volves pitchpatterns between neighbouring tones of the sametype within terraces.
These are processses ofdowndrift (neighbouring tones fall) or upsweep(neighbouring tones, usually high tones, rise).They will not be dealt with here.2.
Theoretical contextThe view is developing, based on work by Kayand Kaplan, Koskenniemi, Church, and others,that in phonology it is sufficient o use finite statetransducers which are not allowed to apply to theirown output.
Kay and Kaplan have shown that it ispossible to reduce conventional, so-cal led"context-sensitive" phonological rules to finite-state relations, and to apply the FSTs thus pro-duced in sequential order (Kay 1986).Koskenniemi developed a somewhat differentconcept for Finnish morphology, in which theFSTs operate as parallel filters over the input: theymust all agree in their output.
A careful analysisalso shows that Church's allophonic parser, in hisactual implementation using matrix operations tosimulate bottom up chart parsing, can also be seenas a system of parallel finite state filters.
The PSI(Parallel Sequential Incrementation) system of pro-sodic analysis being developed by myself in theDFG Forschergruppe "Koh~renz" in Bielefeid in-corporates a similar concept of FSTs used as a pa-rallel filter bank (Gibbon & al.
1986).The context within descriptive phonology isthat of theories which postulate interreelated butstructurally autonomous parallel levels of organi-zation in phonology.
The four major classical di-rections in this area are traditional intonation ana-lysis (surveyed and developed in Gibbon 1976),Firthian "prosodic phonology", Pike's simul-taneous hierarchies, and the non-linear (autoseg-mental and metrical) phonologies of the last thir-teen years.Parallel FST systems are used in order to ex-plicate both traditional phonological rules, so longas they do not apply to their own output, and also,with appropriate synchronization measures, theparallel tiers which figure in autosegmental phono-logy, the mappings between these tiers, and themappings between abstract and concrete phonolo-gical and phonetic levels of representation.
FSTsystems are conceptually bidirectional; they mayeasily be processed in either direction with thesame finite state mechanism; the problem of therecoverability of underlying structure (short of am-biguity through genuine neutralization) loses itsimportance.The idea of formulating prosodic patterns inEnglish intonation in FS terms was originated anddeveloped by Pierrehumbert (1980), though FSintonation models had been developed much ear-lier by 't Hart and others for DutcL intonation.These existing FS intonation descriptions arestraightforward finite state automata (FSAs; forDutch, probabilistic FSAs).
The problem of map-ping such patterns at one level on to patterns atanother, the traditional problem in descriptive lin-guistics as well as in computational parsing andtranslation, has not been formulated in finite stateterms for this domain.
This mapping question is adifferent one from the question of recognition, andthe finite state devices required for an answer tothe question are different.
Additionally, the tonelanguage application constitutes a different domain.The input and output languages for FSTs areboth regular sets (Type 3 languages).
FSTs havevarious interesting properties which are in partsimilar to those of FSAs.
The reversibility propertyshown in the simulations is one of the most inter-esting.
Any FST which is deterministic n one di-rection is not necessarily deterministic n the other,as the neutralization facts in Tern and Baule show.Furthermore, it is not true for FSTs, as it is forFSAs, that for any non--deterministic FST there isa deterministic one which is weakly equivalent re-lative to the input language.
This only holds if thepaired input and output symbols are interpretedas compound (relational) input symbols, and theinput and output apes are seen as a single tape ofpairs.
This is an abstraction which formally redu-ces FSTs to FSAs.
Kay has suggested this perspec-tive on FSTs as an explication for relations be-tween linguistic levels, where FSTs define relationsbetween linguistic levels of representation i anessentially declarative fashion, though with a pro-cedural interpretation.
For a slightly different FSTdefinition cf.
Aho & Ullman (1972).
In currentcomputational theories of language (FUG, GPSG,292LFG), the standard treatment for concord restric-tion, to which phonological assimilation and neu-tralization may be compared, is in terms of a classof operations related to unification.
The situationin autosegmental phonology is simpler than in syn-tax, in that each feature or tier can be modelled bya finite state device.
The elementary unificationoperator equired is, correspondingly, restricted tonon-recursive, adjacent feature specification on agiven tier, as in the present analysis.
In anon--parallel architecture, the operation would beembedded in a more complex, perhapscontext-free-style,  context.3.The Tern and Baule dataThe essential tonal properties of Tern are:downstep, downdrift, phonetically constant(non-terraced) low tone, high tone spreading overa following low; only terracing and sandhi aredealt with here.
The Tern data and the inter-levelrelations are taken from Tchagbale (1984).
Thefollowing shows a simulation using a bidirectionalFST interpreter, with runs in each direction.Forward:INi (L  L L L )OUT: 1 (LC LC LC LC)INs (H H H}OUTt 1 (HC H H)IN i  (L  H H)OUTI 1 (LC !H H)IN :  (L  H L L )OUTs I (LC !H H LC}INt (L H ~L}0UT2 1 (LC !H LC)IN= (L  L L H}OUT= X (LC LC LC !H)IN= (L H L H)OUTz I (LC !H H !H)INs (LHLLH)OUT: 1 (LC !H H LC !H)IN: (LHLHH}OUT: I (LC !H H !H H}INs (L  H L L H L L}OUT: 1 (LC !H H LC !H H LC)IN: (L H L H H H)OUT: 1 (LC !H H !H H H)INm (HLHLL)OUTs 1 (HC H !H H LC)Reverse:INsOUTs tIN :OUTt 12INJOUT1 %2INsOUTs 12IN=OUTs tINsOUT: 1IN=OUT: 1IN~OUT: tIN=OUT: 12IN IOUT - l2INs0UT:  12\ [N IOUT: 12(LC LC LC LC)(L  L L L )(HC H H)(H H H)(H H L)(LC !H H)(L  H H)(L  H L )(LC!HHLC)(LHHeL)(LHLL)(LC !H LC}(L  H ~L)(LC LC LC !H)(L  L L H)(LC fH H !H)(L  H L H)(LC ~H H LC !H)(L  H L L H)(LC !H H !H H)(LHLHH}(LHLHL)(LC 'H  H LC !H H LC)(L  H L L H H =L)(L  H L L H L L )(LC !H H !H H H)(LHLHHH)(LHLHHL)(HC H !H H LC)(H L H H ~L)(H L H L L}The essential tonal properties of Baule are:partial or total downstep (style-determined), up-step, upsweep, downdrift, tone spreading of bothlow and high over the first tone of an appositelyspecified sequence, compound tone.
Again, onlyterracing and sanditi are dealt with.
The Baulesandhi data are from Ahoua (1987a), simulated bythe same interpreter, with an FST designed forBaule.293Forward: Reverse:INuOUTsINsOUT:IN:OUT~IN:OUT:IN:OUT:IN:OUTsIN:OUT:IN:OUT:INsOUT:OUTIIN:OUT~IN:OUT:INzOUT:IN:OUT:IN:OUT:I1l1I111I1I1I11(H L L L L)(HC H L L L)(H L L)(HC H L)(L H L L)(LC !H H L)(L L L H L L L)(LC L L !H H L L)(L H H H H)(LC L !H H H)(H L H H H H)(HC L L ~H H H}(L L L L H L)(LC L L L !H L)(L H H)(LC L 'H)(L H L H}4LC ~H L !H)(L H L H L)(LC ~H L ~H L)(L H L L H)(LC !H H L !H)(L H)(LC !H)(H H)(HC H)(L L)(LC L)(H L)(HC L)INs (HC H L L L)OUT: t (H L L L L)INz (HC H L)OUT: 1 (H H L)2 (H L L)IN: (LC !H H L)OUTs I 4L H L L)INs (LC L L !H H L L)OUT: I (L L L H L L L)2 (L L H H L L L)IN: (LC L !H H H)OUT: 1 (L H H H H)IN: (HC L L !H H H)OUT: 1 (H L H H H H)IN: (LC L L L !H L)OUT: 1 (L L L L H L)2 (LLLHHL)IN: (LC L !
H}OUT: I (L L H)2 (L H H)INs (LC !H L !H)OUTs 1 (L H L H)IN: ?LC !H L !H L)OUTI I (L H L H L)INs (LC !H H L !H)OUT: 1 (L H L L H)IN~ (LC !H)0UTz 1 (L H)INi (HC H)OUT: 1 (H H)IN: (LC L)OUT: 1 (L L)IN: (HC L)OUT" 1 (H L)The underlying morphophonological tones areannotated as follows:L = lowH = high*L = low with an additional morphologicalfeature (Tem only).294The surface phonetic tones are:LC = low constant (in Baule, only initial)HC = high constant (only initial)H = high relative to currently defined levelL = low relative to currently defined level(Bade)!H = mid (=downstepped high) tone.The simulations how the properties of the tonesandhi systems of Tern and Bade very clearly, inparticular the contextual dependencies (sandhi).The reverse (recognition) simulations how the ef-fects of tone neutralization: in the reverse direc-tion, non-deterministic analyses are required,which means in the present context hat more thanone underlying form may be found.The tone systems of Tern and Baule can beseen to differ in several important respects, whichare summarized in the transition network represen-tations given in Figures 1 and 2, respectively.L,IcH,hcH,H,IL,IL,IiH,hH, :hL,hH ,h  icL ,hFigure 1: The Tem FSTFigure 2: The Bade FSTAnother interesting point pertains to localvs.
global pitch relations.
The relations describedhere are clearly local, if they are formalizable infinite state terms.
But this is not to say that thereis not a global factor involved in addition to theselocal factors.
On the contrary, Ahoua(1987b) hasdemonstrated the presence of global intonationalfactors in Baule which are superimposed on thelocal tonal relations and partly suppress them infast speech styles.4.ConclusionIt is immediately obvious that the transitiondiagramme representations show similar iterativecyclical processes for Tem and for Bade; the Bau-le system has an "inner" and an "outer" cycle,which may be accessed and left at well-definedpoints.
At corresponding points in the diagrammes,295both systems show "epicycles", i.e.
transitionswhich start and end at the same node, and the toneassimilation transitions also occur at similar pointsin the systems relative to the epicycles.The suggested interpretation for these interre-lated iterative process types, three in Tem and fivein Baule, is that they are immediately plausibleexplications for the concept of linguistic rhythmand interlocking rhythmic patternings.
This is thesame explicandum, fundamentally, as in metricalphonology, but it is associated here with the claimthat an explicit concept of iteration is a more ade-quate expl:.~'ation for rhythm than a tree-based,implicitly context-free notation, which is not onlyover-powerful but also i l l-suited to the problem,or traditional phonological rules, whose formalproperties are unclear.The formal properties of Tem and Baule as ter-raced tone languages can be defined in terms ofthe topology of the FST transition diagrammes:i.
The fundamental notion of "terrace" or"tonal unit" is defined as onecycle (iteration, oscillation) between ma-jor nodes of the system.ii.
A major node is a node which has unlikeinput symbols on non-epicyclic input andoutput transitions and can also be a finalnode.iii.
Terrace-internal monotone sequences aredefined as epicycles; in Baule, epicyclicsequences tart not on the second but onthe third item of the sequence, and anon-epicyclic sub-system is required.iv.
Stepping and spreading occurs on anynon-epicyclic transition leaving a ma-jor node; in languages with downstep only(Tem), this only applies to high tones, inthose with downstep and upstep, upstepoccurs with low tones in these positions.These definitions how that the FST formalismis not just another "notational variant", but pre-cise, highly suggestive, and useful in that it is aformally clear and simple system with wel l -un-derstood computational properties which make iteasy to implement tools for testing the consistencyand completeness of a given description.In current non-l inear approaches in descrip-tive phonology it is not clear that the basicexplicanda-types of iteration or rhythm, the cha-racter of terracing as a particular kind of iterationor oscillation, and the relative complexity of dif-ferent tone systems - are captured by the nota-tion, in contrast o the clarity and immediate inter-pretability of the FST model.
In one current model(Clements, communicated by Ahoua), complexconstructive definitions are given; they may becharacterized in terms of conventional parsingtechniques as follows:i. analyze the input suing into "islands"which define the borders between tone ter-races;ii.
proceed "bottom up" to make constituents(feet, in general to the left) of these is-lands;iii.
proceed either bottom up or top down tocreate a right-branching tree over theseconstituents.iv.
(implicit) perform tonal assimilation on theleft--most one on each left branch.This is an unnecessarily complex system, whoseformal properties (context-free?
bottom up?right-left'?)
are not clear.A complete evaluation of different approacheswill clearly require prior elaboration of thetone-text association rules and the phonetic inter-pretation rules.
The former will follow the prin-ciples laid down in Goldsmith's well -- formednesscondition on tone alignment, which also point tothe applicability of FST systems.In summary, the prospects for a comprehensiveFST based account of morphophonological tonephenomena ppear to be good.
The prospects areall the more interesting in view of the develop-ments in FS morphology and phonology over thepast four years, suggesting that an overall modelfor all aspects of sublexical processing may be fea-sible using an overall parallel sequential incremen-tation (PSI) architecture with FST components forinter-level mapping.
It may be predicted withsome hope of success that components which are296more powerful than Finite State will turn out to beunnecessary, at least for the sublexical domain,even outside the conventional area of WesternEuropean languages.Tchagbale, Z.
1984.
T.D.
de Linguistique: exerci-ces et corriges.
Institut de Linguistique Appli-qude, Univers i td Nationale deC6te-d'Ivoire, Abidjan, No.
103.ReferencesAho, A.V., J.D.
Ullman 1972 The Theory ofParsing, Translation, and Compiling.
Vol.l:Parsing.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs,N.J.Ahoua, F. 1987a.
"Government in West Africantonal systems with special reference to Bauleand Dating."
To appear.Ahoua, F. 19870.
"Tone and Intonation in Baule.
"Paper held at the DGfS Annual Conference,Augsburg.Church, K.W.
1980.
On Memory Limitations inNatural Language Processing.
Distributed byIULC, 1982.Church, K.W.
1983.
Phrase-Structure Parsing: AMethod for Taking Advantage of AUophonicConstraints.
Dissertation, MIT.Clements, G.N.
1981.
"The hierarchical represen-tation of tone features."
Harvard Studies inPhonology 2.
Distributed by IULC.Gibbon, D. 1976.
Perspectives of Intonation Ana- "lysis.
Berne, Lang.Gibbon, D., G. Braun, F. Jin, V. Pignataro 1986.Prosodic Cohesion.
Interim Project Report,DFG-Forschergruppe "Koh/irenz", U Biele-reid.
't Hart, J.
& R. Collier.
1975.
"Intergrating dif-ferent levels of intotnation analysis."
Journalof Phonetics 3: 235-255.Kay, M. 1986.
Lectures on Unification Grammar.DGfS Summer School, Munich.Kaplan, R. & M. Kay.
1981.
"Phonological rulesand finite-state transducers."
Paper at theAnnual Meeting of the ACL, 28.12.1981.NYC.
(Cited by Koskenniemi.
)Koskenniemi, K. 1983.
Two-level Morphology:A General Computational Model for Word-Form Recognition and Production.
Disser-tation, U Helsinki.
Marcus, M. 1980.
ATheory of Syntactic Recognition for NaturalLanguage.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.Pierrehumbert, J.B. 1980.
The Phonology andPhonetics of English Intonation.
Diss.
MIT.297
