DEALING WITH THE NOTION "OBLIGATORY" IN SYNTACTIC ANALYSISDorothee ReimannZent ra l ins t i tu t  f~r Sprachwissenschaf tAkademie der Wissenschaf ten  der DDRPrenz lauer  Promenade 149-152Ber l inDDR - I I00ABSTRACTIn the paper  the use of the not ion"obl igatory complement"  in syntact icanalysis  is discussed.
In many theor ieswhich serve as bases for syntact icanalysis  procedures  there are devices  toexpress the d i f fe rence  between ob l igatoryand opt ional  complements  on the rulelevel, i.e.
v ia the lexicon the wordformsare connected with these rules where thef i t t ing propert ies  are expressed.
I'llshow that  such an approach leads to someproblems, if we want to handle real textsin syntact ic  analysis.In the f irst  part  I'll out l ine thetheoret ica l  f ramework  we work with.
ThenI'll d iscuss for which purpose the use ofthe not ion ob l igatory  has some advantagesand in the last part  I'll show short ly  howwe intend to use this not ion- in lexical entr ies (with respect  tomorpho log ica l  analysis)  and- in the syntact ic  analys is  process.SOME THEORETICAL  PREREQUIS ITESThe basis of our work is a specialvers ion of a dependency  grammar  (Kunze1975).
In this theory  a syntact ics t ructure  of a sentence is represented asa tree, where the nodes correspond to thewordforms of the sentence and the edgesexpress the dependenc ies  between the word-forms.
The edges are marked by subord ina-t ion re lat ions (SR's) which descr ibe  there lat ion between the subtree "under" theedge and the remain ing tree context.Bes ides the syntact ic  dependenc iesother connect ions  between the wordforms ofthe sentence remain which express certa incongruences and restr ict ions.
Here we havecongruences - so-ca l led parad igmat icconnect ions - l ike (the l isted categor iesconcern the German variant):from a noun to an at t r ibute  (gender,number, case)from a prepos i t ion  to the noun (case)f rom the subject  to the f in i te verb(number, person)and restr ic t ions  - se lect ive  connect ions -like:from the verb to the (deep) subjectfrom the verb to the d i rect  object  etc.The se lect ive  connect ions  also apply  toall t rans format iona l  var iants  of theconcerned phenomenon (let us take theSUBJ -connect ion) :(I)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)John l iest ein Buch.
(John reads a book.
)Ich sehe John ein Buch lesen.
(I see John reading a book.
)Das Buch wird von John gelesen.
(The book is read by John.
)Das von John ge lesene Buch ...(The book read by John ...)Das Lesen des Buches durch John ..(The reading of the book by John .
)Der ein Buch lesende John ...(John reading a book ...)314(7) John, der ein Buch l iest ....(John who reads a book .... )It is easy to see that the treeproperty  would be dest royed if theseconnect ions were included as edges in thetree.
To save the tree proper ty  Kunzeintroduced the mechan ism of paths ofact ion for the parad igmat ic  and se lect iveconnections.
These paths run along theedges, i.e.
they can be expressed also bythe subord inat ion  relations.
This is oneessential  reason for d i f fe rent ia t ing  theSR's very strongly.For instance, it is necessary  tod i f fe rent ia te  between- the "normal" d i rect  object  and thed i rect  object  with subject  role:John reads a boo~.I see Joh~ reading a book.- an adject ive as at t r ibute  and apar t ic ip le  as attr ibute:The ~E book ...The r_~gding John ...- the subject in an act ive c lause and thesubject  in a pass ive clause:John reads a book.A boQ~ is read by John.Besides the subord inat ion  re lat ionsanother central  concept  in Kunze's  theoryare the h~les  (see also Reimann, 1982).A bundle is a subst ructure  of a dependencytree which contains exact ly  one top nodeand all nodes d i rect ly  subord inated to ittogether  with the edges between (and theirmarkings - the subord inat ion  relations).The or ig inal  idea was to use the bundlesas syntact ic  rules.
For  this purpose, thebundle is regarded as a system ofcondit ions which have to be fu l f i l led by aset of nodes to construct  the st ructurewhich the bundle prescr ibed.But another poss ib i l i ty  to use bundlesis the fol lowing: They can serve asdescr ipt ions  for the dominance behav iourof wordforms (i.e.
the surface form ofvalency).
In this way, the approach iss imi lar  to other theories: In the lexicalentr ies of the wordforms there is apointer  to the rules which can be appl iedwith the concerned wordform as top node.Our approach goes farther in thed i rect ion of dominance behaviourdescr ipt ions.
Having in mind that,espec ia l ly  for nouns and verbs, thedominance behav iour  is a very complex one,i.e.
many d i f fe rent  things can be sub-ordinated to nouns and verbs: many of themare optional, some of them stand incerta in relat ions to others, etc.
Thus weconcentrate  all these bundles by def in inganother form of a bundle, which consists,in general,  of many s imple bundles.For  instance:Peter  stiehlt.Peter  st iehlt  ein Auto.Peter  st iehlt  dam Bauern das Auto.Peter  st iehl t  dam Bauern das Auto vomHof.Peter  st iehlt  das Auto vom Hof.
* Peter  st iehl t  vom Hof.
* Peter  st iehlt  dam Bauern.As we can see, only the subject  isob l igatory  (in the act ive sentence), butthe indirect  object  as well as thed i rect iona l  c i rcumstance are only used, ifthe d i rect  object  belongs to the sentence.These facts can be expressed by a logicalformula l ike this:(SUBJ @a v ((IOBJ vD IR) -~DOBJ ) )That means we represent  the dominancebehav icur  of wordforms by logical formulas(in subord inat ion  relat ions) - we callthese formulas bundles.
It is quite c learthat it is not so easy to use thesebundles as rules for syntact ic  analysis,but to descr ibe  the dominance behaviour  ofwordforms they seem to be quiteappropriate.
I won't  deal here with freemodi f icat ions  (real adjuncts and otherper iphera l  elements), a l though theybelong, accord ing to the theory, also tothe bundles.
To handle them a specialmechan ism is included in the analys isprocedure.THE PHENOMENON OF OBL IGATORY COMPLEMENTSIn the va lency theory  ob l igatorycomplements  are normal ly  regarded asspecial  parts of the concept  of the verb.On this level the not ion "obl igatory" hasoften been investigated.
It is connectedwith the c lass i f i cat ion  "complement-adjunct", but there are also opt ionalcomplements  and ob l igatory  adjuncts.For automat ic  process ing thisc lass i f i cat ion  is not suff ic ient:H. Somers (1986) showed that a moref lex ib le  c lass i f i cat ion  lead to betterresults, espec ia l ly  with respect  tomachine translat ion.
Somers referred alsoto the problem that ob l igatorycomplements can be "hidden" in the text:- E l l ipses and other phenomena lead toomiss ions which are hard to handle.- In modi f ied syntact ic  construct ions(passive, nominal isat ions)  complementscan be omitted regularly.- In other construct ions  the complementsstand in quite d i f ferent  relat ions tothe form der ived from a verb (thephenomenon of control, a t t r ibut ivepart ic ip les  etc.).
In these cases thecomplements have to be found by specialtools.Concerning the examples in the f irstparagraph regular omiss ions are poss ib lein (3), (4), (5) and (6) whi le  the315sentences (2), (6) and (7) belong to thethird category.
They all have to behandled in syntactic analysis, but thequestion arises: What is the advantage ofusing the notion obligatory under thenamed circumstances?Obligatory in syntactic analysisNormally we suppose that sentences tobe analysed are correct.
But, if weconstruct a set of bundles (withobligatory edges), we are defining a setof sentences which will never be complete.If there are no obl igatory edges, thedescribed set is better covering the setof correct sentences.
Only very simpledemands have to be regarded like thenecessity of the surface subject.
In thisway a parsing system can work quite well.In the $aarbrGcken MT-systems adict ionary is used where all complementsare entered in a cumulative way withoutthe classif ication obl igatory-optional orother relations (Luckhardt, 1985).But I think, the possibi l i t ies tocombine complements of verbs (and ofderived forms) and thus also the notionobligatory can be very useful to solveambiguities and to dist inguish differentmeanings of a verb.
By the way, also inSaarbrGcken such mechanisms are used, butonly in the so-called semantic analysisfol lowing the syntactic analysis.To show the advantages I'll take thefol lowing verbs as examples:a) E@chn@~(I) Er rechnet (die Aufgaben).
(He calculates (the exercices).
)(2) Er rechnet ihn zu seinen Freunden.
(He reckons him among his friends.
)(3) Er rechnet mit ibm.
(He takes him into account.
)In the first case the direct object isoptional, but the preposit ional objects inboth other cases as well as the directobject in the second case are obligatory.If not, the first sentence would have allthree meanings!
Only the subject is notimportant for the dist inct ion of themeanings, and it is not as obligatory asthe other complements, because it can beomitted by passive transformation.b) b_.~e s__~t eh en(I) Es besteht Hoffnung.
(There is hope.
)(2) Er besteht die PrGfung.
(He passes the examination.
)(3) Die Fabrik besteht seit 3 Jahren.
(The factory has existed for ...)(4) Er besteht auf seiner Meinung.
(He insists on his opinion.
)(5) Die Wand besteht aus Steinen.
(The wall consists of stones.
(6) Das Wesen der Sache besteht darin,..(The nature ... consists in ...)Here in (I) and (3) the subject isobligatory, but in (2) only the directobject.
In the other cases thepreposit ional objects are obligatory, thusthe dist inction of the different meaningsis possible without ambiguities.c) erw~rten(i) Er erwartet G~ste.
(He is waiting for guests.
)(2) Die Kinder erwarten (von den Eltern)ein Geschenk.
(The children expect a gift (fromtheir parents).
)Because of the possibi l i ty to form apassive sentence from (I), the subject isnot obligatory in this case.
But in (2) itis obligatory.
Unfortunately thedist inctive complement with yon is notobligatory, thus the dist inct ion of thesetwo meanings requires also to take intoconsideration the selective properties ofthe direct object.The conclusion of this paragraph can bethat the classif ication in obl igatory andoptional complements is only important ina final stage of syntactic analysis tosupport the dist inct ion of dif ferentmeanings of wordforms (especially verbalforms or forms derived from verbs).
Butthis dist inct ion is very useful mainlywith respect to machine translation, as wecan see translating the different meaningsof the examples.PRACTICAL CONCLUSIONSAs we have seen in the first paragraphthe bundles (i.e.
the logical formulas)have their place in the lexicon asdescription of the dominance behaviour ofthe wcrdforms.
There is no problem, if awordform lexicon (with full forms) isused.
But in an extensive syntacticanalysis system a morphological analysishas to be included.Obl igatory in the lexiconFor a morphological analysis (not onlyan inflexion analysis) we need a lexiconof bases and a lexicon of affixes.
In thelexicon of bases there must be a generaldescript ion of the grammatical propertiesand with the affixes rules have to bestated for calculating the properties ofthe derived wordforms.What does this mean for the descript ionof the dominance behaviour?
To calculatewith the logical formulas seems to be notvery convenient.Therefore the dominance component isdivided into two parts: The first one is a316cumulat ive list of the subord inat ionre lat ions and the second one contains thebundles.For the f irst  part  a sp l i t t ing of thesubord inat ion  re lat ions is advantageous.The subord inat ion  re lat ions are verycomplex things cons is t ing of d i f fe rentkinds of information:- usual ideas about syntact ic  parts ofsentences l ike subject, at t r ibute  .
.
.
.- paths of act ion for se lect iveconnections,- paths of act ion for parad igmat icconnections,- wordclass  condi t ions etc.The f irst  two express the wel l -knownsyntact ic  funct ions (SF's), the otherstheir  a~pearances - so-ca l led morpho-syntact ic  re lat ions (MSR's) - which areonly necessary  to recognize the syntact icfunctions.
If a syntact ic  funct ion isrecognized, the used morpho-syntact i cre lat ion can be forgotten.Thus this part  of the dominancecomponent  is a list of syntact ic  funct ionswhich have pointers  to the MSR'sexpress ing this syntact ic  funct ion in caseof the concerned wordform (SF-MSR-I ist).The rules for the der ivat ions  concern onlythis list, i.e.
only the MSR's under theSF's can be changed.
For instance:rechnenSF's MSR'sSUBJ N-I noun in nominat ive  caseDOBJ N-4 noun in accussat ive  caseZU P-ZU prepos i t ion  zuMIT P-MIT prepos i t ion  mitor S-DASS d_a~_-clauseor I-ZU inf in i t ive with zu(S-DASS and I-ZU only withcorrelate)After the pass ive  t rans format ion  wehave the fo l lowing list:SUBJDOBJZUMITP -PRACT prepos i t iona l  actorN-I noun in nominat ive  casesee abovesee aboveA nomina l i sat ion  (die ~eQh~g)  leadsto the fol lowing:SUBJ N-2 noun in geni t ive  caseor P-PRACT prepos i t iona l  actorDOBJ N-2 noun in geni t ive caseor P-VON prepos i t ion  yonZU see aboveMIT see aboveThus the bundles are not concerned bythe rules connected with the der ivat ions.But the problem remains how to handle theproperty  "obl igatory" here.
We have twopossibi l i t ies:- Only  those complements  which areob l igatory  in all der ived forms aremarked by the sign OB.
In this case,the subject  is not ob l igatory  for manyverbs, espec ia l ly  for all t rans i t iveverbs.
Choos ing this possibi l i ty,  the"surface obl igateness"  (e.g.
of asur face subject) has to be generateddur ing the process (depending onderivat ion).- All semant ica l ly  ob l igatory  complementsare marked by OB.
Then changes have tobe per formed dur ing the analys isprocess, too.We intend to fo l low the f irst  way.
Atthis point the quest ion arises how to dealwith the omiss ions of the th ird category,where the complements are not real lyomitted, but have to be looked for atother places with in the sentence.
Thatmeans that these complements  are notconnected with the verbal  node by a d i rectedge (downward), but - in our theory -they are connected by a path of act ion forthe corresponding se lect ive  connection.
Inthis way it is poss ib le  to let thesecomplements be ob l igatory  and to remark inthe SF-MSR- I is t  that instead of a MSR apath af act ion leads to the concernedcomplement.Thus the SF-MSR- I i s t  for the inf in i t iveEeRhnen will have the fo l lowing form:SUBJ via SUBJ -path of act ionDOBJ N-4ZU see aboveMIT see aboveAs result  of the d iscuss ion  we have thefo l lowing formulas for the d i f ferentmeanings of rechnen:(I) (SUBJ v DOBJ)(2) (SUBJ v (ZU A DOBJ) oB)(3) (SUBJ v MITeS)Ob l igatory  in the analysis  processF ina l ly  I'll g ive a short survey of oursyntact ic  analysis  system to show that thebundles and with them also the not ionob l igatory  - are used only in the veryf inal stage.The f irst step of the procedure is asequent ia l  preanalys is  (performed by anATN) which has the task to find thesegments of the sentence and the verbalgroups of each clause.The second step is a local analys iswhere only two nodes and the re lat ionsbetween them are regarded.
Here the SF-MSR- l is ts  are used to recognize theposs ib le  syntact ic  functions.But in the third step wrong readingsfrom the f irst  two steps are f i l tered outus ing the bundles, i.e.
the logical317formulas, together with the selectiveconditions (transported by the paths ofaction).
A side effect of this so-calledglobal bundle analysis is the selection ofthe actual verbal meaning.
Only here thenotion "obligatory" is used.To conclude this paper I'll emphasizeonce more the problems which have to betaken into consideration, if the notion"obligatory" is used for syntacticanalysis:- The advantage of using such a conceptis the possibi l i ty to solve ambiguitiesand to s.elect actual meanings of word-forms (especial ly verbal forms).This is the reason why it shall be usedonly in a final stage of analysis.- The different possibi l i t ies to omitobligatory complements have to betreated in an adequate way.
Herespecial procedures during morphologicalanalysis and the mechanism of selectiveconnections (paths of action) can helpto handle the regular cases.
For otheromissions (in ell ipses etc.)
defaultsolutions are proposed.REFERENCESEngel, U.; Schumacher, H. 1978 KleinesValenzlexikon deutscher Verben.
TBLVerlag Gunter Narr, THbingen.Helbig, G.; Schenkel, W. 1983 W~rterbuchzur Valenz und Distr ibution deutscherVerben.
Verlag Enzyklop~die, Leipzig.Kunze, J~rgen.
1975 Abh~ingigkeitsgramma-tik.
Studia Grsmmatica XIl, Akademie-Verlag, Berlin.Luckhardt, Heinz-Dirk.
1985 Valenz undTiefenkasus in der maschinel len Ober-setzung.
CL-Report No.
4, Sonderfor-schungsbereich I00, Universit~t desSaarlandes, Saarbr~cken.Reimann, Dorothee.
1982 B~sehel als syn-taktische Regeln.
In: Kunze, J0rgen,Ed., Automatisehe Analyse des Deut-schen.
Akademie-Verlag, Berlin.Somers, Harold L. 1988 The Need for MT-oriented Versions of Case and Valencyin MT.
In: Proceedings COLING'86, Bonn.318
