NATURAL AND S IMULATED POINT INGDagmar SchmauksSonderforschungsbereich 314FB 10.2 - InformatikUniversi6it des SaarlandesD-6600 Saarbrficken 11WEST GERMANYCSnet: schmauks %sbsvax.uucp@ germany.csnetAbstractReferent identification in human conversation isperformed both by describing the objects in questionand by pointing at them.
Up till now, only the linguis-tic component could be simulated in dialog systems.
Butrecently, technical innovations have made it possible to'point' at the objects on a display as well.The paper has two intentions.
First, it investigates nat-ural pointing in more detail and offers some possibilitiesto classify the great variety of pointing actions.
Then,it tries to clarify the extent o which pointing by techni-cal means (especially mouse-clicks) can be regarded as asimulation of natural pointing or as a functional equiv-alent.
Furthermore, some steps towards even more ac-curate simulation are briefly mentioned.1.
Int roduct ion1.1 Terminologica l  remarksThe term 'deixis' denotes those referential deviceswhose interpretation requires a consideration of the sit-uation of utterance.
"Local deixis' means the specifi-cation of directions, places and objects relative to thespeaker's actual orientation.
The closely related top-ics 'anaphora' and 'text-deixis' are not treated in thispaper.
One component of deictic actions are linguis-tic expressions, mainly demonstrative pronouns ('this','that') and adverbs ('here', 'there'), the other being ex-tralinguistic means, especially pointing gestures.
In thispaper, the latter are represented by the sign '/" '"Natural pointing' denotes pointing actions occur-ring during interhuman dialog.
This includes the use ofeasily available aids like pencils or pointers.
"Simulatedpohuing' means the use of technical pointing devicesduring man-computer dialog.Following the terminology of Clark, Schreuder, andButtrick (1983), the object pointed at is called the'demonstratum', and the descriptive part of the accom-panying noun phrase (if there is one) is called the 'de-scriptor'.
The 'referent" is the object o which the wholepointing act is intended to refer.1.2 Mot ivat ionIn face-to-face interaction, pointing gestures areused frequently and efficiently.
Although their referen-tial power is beyond any doubt, they have, up till now,hardly ever been treated in more detail.
The disciplinesconcerned with them are mainly semiotics, linguisticsand psychology.Recently, the investigation of natural pointing hasalso become interesting for the area of Artificial Intel-ligence.
In dialog systems developed to date, objectscould be referred to by more or less complex verbal de-scriptions or unique artificial identifiers only.
Techni-cal innovations (e.g., high-resolution graphic displays,touch-sensitive screens, pointing devices such as miceor joysticks) have made it possible to simulate pointinggestures to various degrees as well.
Multimodal inputis both more comfortable from the user's point of view,and a more natural simulation of interhuman commu-nication.Therefore, several systems have been developed re-cently which allow the combination of verbal descrip-tions and pointing gestures for referent identification(see section 5.2).
One example is the dialog systemXTRA (a natural-language access system for expertsystems) which is currently under development at theUniversity of Saarbriicken.
Its current application do-main is to assist he user in filling out a tax form whichis visible on the screen.
In section 5.3, XTRA's deicticcomponent TACTILUS is shortly presented.
The term"form deixis" shall henceforth denote all those pointingactions which are performed in order to specify regionsor entries of a form.An adequate simulation of pointing gestures pre-supposes a thorough investigation of the regularitieswhich underlie natural pointing.
Therefore, the nextthree sections investigate natural pointing in more de-tail.
Section 2 shows that pointing actions (althoughfunctionally similar) are not a uniform phenomenon butdiffer with respect o various aspects.
Semiotics, lin-guistics and psychology (study of nonverbal behavior)are concerned with these investigations.
The interde-pendency of describing and pointing is the topic of sec-tion 3.
This relationship is relevant with regard to tan-179guage processing, because natural and simulated ialoghave a lot of problems in common.
More details onthe issues discussed in section 2 and 3 are to be foundin Schmauks (1986b).
Section 4 treats the peculiaritiesof form deixis, which is the special type of deixis oc-curing in the XTRA system.
Section 5 tries to clarifythe extent o which technical pointing devices alreadyin existence can be regarded as a simulation of naturalpointing, or as a functional equivalent.
In section 6,some steps towards even more accurate simulation arebriefly mentioned.
(Thus, the last two sections are in-teresting from a cognitive science point of view as well.)2.
Essential features of natural  point ingAll efforts to simulate natural pointing have totake into account hat pointing is not a uniform phe-nomenon.
This section shows that the goal 'pointing atsomething' is achieved by a great variety of body move-ments.
Up till now, only a small part of these can besimulated (see sections 5 and 6).2.1 The variety of point ing actionsPointing actions are those body movements whichare performed by a speaker to direct the hearer's at-tention to some part of the shared visual field.
In thenormal case, both for their encoding and their receptionby the hearer no other means than the human body areinvolved.
Successful reference by pointing requires thatthe addressee pays attention visually to the person whois pointing.
One may suppose, therefore, that linguisticmaterial such as demonstrative pronouns or deictic ad-verbs serve as a request o turn one's face to the speaker.Pointing can be performed by various body move-ments, mainly gestures.
The most frequent one is the'finger point', by which the index finger is extended inthe direction of the object or place indicated.
A muchmore vague gesture is pointing with the thumb overone's shoulder.
Other extralinguistic reference devicesare head movements and line of sight.All these actions are only interpretable as 'Lookthere!'
if the speaker uses a body movement which be-longs to the stock of signs s/he shares with the hearer.For example, the African 'mouth point' (Kirk, Burton1981) will not cause the intended reaction on the partof a European hearer.2.2 'V isual '  and 'tact i le'  point ingSometimes it is possible not only to point to an ob-ject, but also to touch an object within reach.
In thesecases, pointing becomes much more precise, becausesome of the ambiguities ofnatural pointing are dropped(see sections 3.3 and 4.1).
If there is a physical con-tact between finger (or pencil etc.)
and the indicatedobject, the action in question is called "tactile pointing'as opposed to 'visual pointing' where there is no suchcontact.So far.
only a small subset of naturally occurringpointing estures can be simulated on a terminal screen,namely certain kinds of tactile pointing gestures.
Theemphasis of the remainder of this paper will thereforerely upon this type of deictic gesture and its relationto verbal descriptions.
However, many observations tofollow will also hold for pointing estures in general.Tactile pointing estures can be classified accordingto various aspects of their observable appearance.
Somedistinguishing characteristics are:- body parts involved in execution of the ges-ture, i.e.
number and position of fingers,- presence or absence of visual guidance,- use of aids (pencil, pointer .
.
.
.
),- complexity of movement (singular, repeated,multiple pointing), and- duration and intensity of gesture.An adequate simulation of tactile pointing has to takeinto account at least some of these features.2.3 The relationship between point ing g e s t u r eand demonstratumOne open problem is whether there are correlationsbetween the physical features of pointing gestures andthe objects thereby indicated.
Up till now, it cannot betaken for granted that different persons point in an iden-tical manner at objects of a specific size, location, shape,depth of embedding etc.
Empirical investigations arecurrently being carried out in the XTRA project o an-swer these questions.Pointing is called 'punctual', if the movement of thearm reaches only one apex and thus indicates one sin-gle point in space.
This gesture is only adequate if thedemonstratum is relatively small and motionless.
Dur-ing non-punctual pointing actions, the apex itself per-forms a complex motion which corresponds in variousways to the object in question, e.g.
follows its motion,gives its shape or indicates the part of space the objectis supposed to be in.Furthermore, pointing gestures differ in accuracy.Pointing with a pencil, pointer etc.
can be more precisethan pointing with a finger or the whole hand.3.
The interdependency of descr ibing and point-ingIn face-to-face interaction, objects are frequendyreferred to by gestures and speech in parallel.
Simu-lation of this multimodal process presupposes the inves-tigation of the specific limitations of each componentand the advantages of their combination.
This is donein the following section.180There exist both functional and temporal, relationsbetween gestures and phrases.
Gestures can substitute,repeat, contradict, modify or amplify the vocal output(Scherer 1979).
Pointing gestures usually amplify deic-tic expressions and therefore belong to the kind of ges-tures called 'illustrators' (Ekman, Friesen 1969).
Nor-really, pointing gestures and their correlated phrases areproduced simultaneously (Levelt, Richardson, and LaHeij 1985).3.1 Obl igatory  and opt ional  point ing gesturesSome deictic expressions must be accompanied bya pointing action (or a linguistic equivalent, Sennholz1985).
These include:- demonstrative pronouns: 'this book',- heterodeictic lncal adverbs: 'the tree there',- personal pronouns with deictic function: 'hedid it', and- 'such'-constructions: ' I  hke such flowers'.Syntactically, obligatory pointing gestures are embed-ded in noun phrases or adverbial phrases.
In the formercase, they amplify a linguistic attribute.
Within its cor-responding phrase, the location of the pointing gestureis arbitrary.
Usually, it will accompany the most em-phasized expression.A lot of expressions can be accompanied by pointinggestures, in principle all those which refer to visible ob-jects, events etc.
OptionM pointing gestures have var-ious functions, e.g.
to mark whether the speaker usesadverbs deictically or relative to another orientation sys-tem.3.2 Point ing simplif ies descr ib ingThe use of purely verbal descriptions can fail forvarious~.reasons.
For example, some descriptions maynot completely specify their referents: They can bewrong, inconsistent or too subjective.
But even ade-quate descriptions can cause misinterpretations.
Oneextreme would include descriptions with little inten-sion and therefore too wide an extension, such 'whatsit'or 'thingamajig' (generally used if one doesn't know amore precise descriptor).
The other extreme includesvery detailed and complex descriptions which are dif-ficult to process (e.g., 'the small red book on the leftside in the second shelf from the top').
A closely relatedproblem is that of technical terms used in conversationwith non-specialists: Although the description may betotally adequate, the hearer is not able to understand it.Therefore, verbal description alone may be too gen-eral or too specific.
Within this range, the speaker hasthe task of specifying the referent in enough detail with-out constructing a verbal expression which is too com-plex.One frequent solution is the use of pointing gestures.They allow successful reference without the need of to-tally specified verbal descriptions (Pechmann, Deutsch1982).
The use of pointing shortens the accompany-ing descriptor and the loss of intension is compensatedby the gesture.
General nouns amplified by pointinggestures can substitute for more specific nouns (e.g., 'Ilike cornflowers' is replacable by ' I  like these / flow-ers').
Thus, additional pointing allows unambiguous(or at least relatively precise) referent specification evenif one doesn't know an exact descriptor.
The process ofreferent identification is speeded up, because the orien-tation to the object's direction and the processing of theverbal description are performed simultaneously.3.3 Descr ib ing d isambiguates point ingOne essential drawback of pointing gestures is theirinevitable dependency on the here-and-now.
Further-more, pointing without describing the referent is fun-damentaUy ambiguous (Wittgenstein 1958).
Referentidentification i volves the following three steps: First,one has to recognize the direction indicated.
This re-quires facing the speaker and following his/her gesturewith gaze and eventually a body turn.
Thus, the deicticspaces of both participants are co-oriented by physicalmeans and not by mental acts (e.g., transformation of'left' into 'right' and vice versa, see Klein 1978).The second task is the identification of the objectindicated.
Usually, there is more than one object sit-uated in any one direction.
Problems arise if possibledemonstrata are:- next to each other,- behind each other, or- embedded in one another.In these cases, unambiguous reference requires thenaming or describing of the demonstratum.Thirdly, one has to decide what aspect of the object isbeing referred to.
Like the second step, this is usuallydone by consideration of the descriptor.
For example,pointing at a moving car can refer to its colour ('Nicegreen 7 , isn't it?')
or its kind of motion (' This speed.1" causes lots of accidents') etc.
Pointing at sets ofobjects can even refer to aspects of higher degree suchas number ( ' I 'd like to have that man), I  books').4.
Form deixisPointing at two-dimensional objects (forms, dia-grams, maps, pictures etc.)
differs in various aspectsfrom pointing at objects within the entire visual field.This offers a definite advantage from a linguistic pointof view: Some problems of local deixis are reduced incomplexity without the communicative setting havingto become unnatural (Schmauks 1986a).
Furthermore,181this domain is interesting from an artificial intelligencepoint of view, since some of the pointing actions withregard to forms can now be simulated on a terminalscreen.4.1 Reduct ion of  problemsFollowing Bfihler's terminology (1982), form deixisbelongs to the kind of deixis called 'demonstratio adoculos', because all objects pointed at are visible.
Fur-thermore, it represents an example of the 'canonical sit-uation of  utterance' (Lyons 1977): All the participantsare co-present and can thus mutually perceive their(pointing) gestures etc.
Form deixis is relatively pre-cise, because tactile pointing is always possible.
Precisepointing at small objects (e.g.
single words) is frequentlyperformed by using a pencil etc., larger areas by encir-cling them.
The ambiguity with regard to objects be-hind each other does not occur, because the deictic spaceis only two-dimensional.
If speaker and hearer are sit-uated side by side, their deictic fields are co-oriented.Therefore, this position makes cooperation easier, andthus is the most advantageous one.4.2 Remaining problemsAlthough form deixis implies a reduction of prob-lems, referent identification has not at all become a triv-ial task.
It cannot be taken for granted that demonstra-tum and referent are identical.
This might be due to thefact that the speaker has mistakenly pointed at a wrongplace because s/he doesn't know the referent's actuallocation or misses the target by accident.
Other diver-gencies emerge intentionally: The speaker doesn't wantto cover the referent and therefore points a bit lower.Other essential problems arise because there existsubset relations among form regions.
For example, thedemonstratum can be a part of the referent - this is re-ferred to as 'pars-pro-toto deixis'.
In those cases, onemust take into account he verbal description to resolvethe ambiguity.Furthermore, pointing at one form region can (de-pending on linguistic context) refer to three differententities:1.
The form region itself: 'What is to be en-tered here?2.
The actual entry: 'I want to increase thissun ' / .
'3.
Correlated concepts: 'Are these expenses tobe verified?'5.
S imulated point ingThis section investigates the extent o which somefeatures of natural pointing can already be simulated indialog systems developed to date.
In section 6, somesteps towards more accurate simulation are briefly sug-gested.5.1 Different ways of  s imulat ing point ing ges-turesFace-to-face interaction is performed by gesturesand speech in parallel.
In many domains (e.g.
formdeixis), objects are often and efficiently referred to bypointing gestures.
Thus, dialog systems will becomemore natural if the user has the possibility of 'pointing'at the objects which are visible on the screen.The goal 'reference by pointing' can be achievedby various strategies.
One fundamental decision mustbe made first: whether one wants to simulate naturalpointing (as is the aim of TACTILUS) or to offer func-tionM equivalents.
In the former case, there is the pre-supposed but questionable demand that man-machine-communication should be performed by the same meansas interhuman communication.If the main emphasis relies on simulation, then thepointing device and its use must correspond to naturalpointing as accurately as possible.
In this case, the mostadequate simulation will be pointing at a touch-sensitivescreen (see section 6).
But other devices (e.g.
input viamouse-clicks) can also partially simulate natural point-ing (see sections 5.3).Functional equivalents to natural pointing includethe following devices: Framing the referent or zoomingin on it, highlighting it in different colours etc.
(seeFfthnrich et al 1984).
On the one hand, the systemcan 'point' by these means.
On the other hand, theuser gets immediate teedback as to whether the systemhas recognized the intended referent.
This advantage ispaid for by the loss of 'naturalness'.5.2 Histor ical  remarksMultimodal input, especially the possibility ofpointing at visible objects, offers certain crucial ad-vantages.
For example, the use of simple pointingactions was already possible in the following systems:SCHOLAR (Carbonell 1970) allows pointing gesturesin order to specify regions of geographic maps.
Point-ing in Woods' (1979) system, combined with simpledescriptions, refers to substructures of a parse tree dis-played on the screen.
In NLG (Brown et al 1979), theuser can draw simple geometric objects through descrip-tive NL-commands and simultaneous tactile toucheson the screen.
SDMS (Bolt 1980)enables the user tocreate and manipulate geometric objects on a screen-arrangement called 'MEDIA ROOM' .
In all those sys-tems, there exist predefined relations between the point-ing gesture and its demonstratum.
Referent identifica-tion is not dependent on context etc.Currently, several projects are investigating prob-lems concerning the integration of pointing actionsand NL input, e.g.
: In NLMENU (Thompson 1986),the user can select parts of a street map by means182of a mouse-controlled rubber-band technique.
Hayes(1986) oudines the integration of a deictic componentinto the Language Craft System, which should allowthe user to click on items on the screen, e.g.
the ma-chines on a blueprint of a factory floor.
ACORD in-vestigates pointing actions with respect o various two-dimensional objects, e.g.
a map of the planetary system(Hanne, Hoepelmann, and F~ihnrich 1986) and a formfor university registration (Wetzel, Hanne, and Hoe-pelmann 1987).5.3 Point ing actions in TAGTILUSOne aim of XTRA is the integration of (typed) ver-bal descriptions and pointing gestures (currently real-ized by mouse-clicks) for referent identification (Kobsaet al 1986).
The user should be able to efficientlyrefer to objects on the screen, even when s/he usesunderspecified descriptions and/or imprecise pointinggestures (Allgayer, Reddig 1986).
Hence the processof specifying referents is speeded up and requires lessknowledge of specialist terms.The deictic component of XTRA (called TAC-TILUS) is completely implemented ona Symbolics LispMachine (Allgayer 1086).
It offers four types of point-ing gestures which differ in accuracy.
They correspondto three modes of punctual pointing (with pencil, in-dex finger, or hand) and to the possibility of encirclingthe demonstratum.
Thus, pointing becomes a two-stepprocess: First, one has to select the intended egree ofpreciseness and then to 'point'.These pointing actions are natural because of theirambiguity: There is no predefined relation between thespot where the mouse is activated and the object whichis thereby referred to.
Therefore, the system has to takeinto account additional knowledge sources for referentidentification, e.g.
verbal descriptions and dialog mem-ory.
From the user's point of view, the essential indi-cation of this naturalness is the lack of visual feedback.In analogy to natural pointing, the identified referent isnot highlighted.5.4 Problems in processing mixed inputOne essential problem is to assign a mouse-click toits corresponding verbal constituent.
This task is nottrivial since there is no guarantee that the user 'points'within the range of the deictic expression.
Possibly, theclick occurs too late because of the user being inatten-tive, not familiar with the system etc.
One example is:What is this sum above the last entry/" ?Here, the pointing action occurs next to 'the last entry'.But this is an anaphor and doesn't need to be amplified.On the other hand, there is the deictic expression 'thissum' without its correlated obligatory pointing action.Therefore, the system has to recognize that ' /  ' be-longs to 'this sum'.
This problem is aggravated by thefact that the words 'here'/'there' and 'this'/'that' arenot only the most frequent deictic expressions but haveanaphoric and text- deictic readings as well.Matching mouse-clicks and phrases becomes even moredifficult if a single utterance requires more than onepointing action.
This case is called 'multiple pointing'.Examples include:This sum I would prefer to enter here.Hayes (1986) assumes that pointing actions are per-formed in the same order as their correspondingphrases.
But until this hypothesis confirmed empiri-cally, it can only serve as a heuristic rule.As soon as reference by pointing is possible, the use ofincomplete expressions will increase.
In these cases, ad-ditional knowledge sources are needed for referent iden-tification, like descriptor analysis and case frame analy-sis (Kobsa et al 1986).
For example, the expression'this' in the sentence 'I want to add Sis /"  ' surely refersto a number in the present domain, because 'add' is cat-egorized as an action to be performed with numbers.5.5 Problems in generating mixed outputIf the pointing actions of the system are also con-ceived as a simulation of natural pointing, the user isconfronted with the same problems that have alreadybeen identified in the last subsection (Reithinger 1987).But, whereas multiple pointing can be simulated uringinput, there seems to be no adequate mode for simulat-ing it during output as well: In normal communication,the hearer doesn't need to watch the speaker in order tounderstand him/her unless the occurence ofa deictic ex-pression (or the sound of touching during tactile point-ing) demands his/her visual attentiveness.
Also, duringtyped dialog, there is no need to observe the output sen-tences permanently.
In the case of multiple pointing,the possibility cannot be ruled out that the user mightfail to notice one of the pointing actions.6.
Prospects of more natural  s imulationUp till now, only certain kinds of tactile pointinggestures can be simulated on a screen.
Negroponte(1981) oudines ome future plans, e.g.
the considera-tion of non-tactile actions uch as eye tracking and bodymovements.Simulation of tactile pointing gestures by mouse-clicks has some serious limitations with regard to its'naturalness'.
Empirical investigations are needed todetermine the extent o which mouse-clicks can be re-garded as an equivalent of natural pointing.
Theseinvestigations are currently carried out in the XTRAproject.183In the case of natural pointing, the choice of a moreor less precise pointing gesture is made automaticallyrather than consciously.
But in TACTILUS, the userhas tc, select explicitly the intended egree of accuracy.Empirical investigations must examine whether the userregards this as a disadvantage.Furthermore, pointing via mouse-clicks differs fromnatural tactile pointing, because there is no physicalcontact between finger and demonstratum.
A bettersolution would be the use of a touch-sensitive screenon which 'real-world gestures' (see Minsky 1984) arepossible.
Touch-sensitive screens allow highly naturalpointing gestures (see Picketing 1986), but have someshortcomings, e.g.
a restricted egree of resolution.A problem just as serious as the aforementioned isthe temporal dissociation of a pointing gesture and itscorresponding phrase.
This problem would be soluble ifthe system would accept input via voice.
But this alonewouldn't be sufficient: There is no guarantee that spo-ken phrases and correlated mouse-clicks occur simul-taneously.
Furthermore, current voice-input systemshave too small a vocabulary and cannot process fluentspeech.Therefore, the most adequate simulation would bethe combination of voice input~output and gestures ona touch-sensitive screen.
However, the state of the artwith respect o the required devices is not yet sufficient.AcknowledgementsThe research described in this paper has beenfunded by the German Science Foundation (DFG) in itsSpecial Collaborative Program on AI and Knowledge-Based Systems (SFB 314).
I am indepted to my col-leagues of the XTRA project for their helpful commentson an earlier version of this paper.ReferencesAllgayer, J.
(1986): Eine Graphikkomponente zurIntegration yon Zeigehandlungen i natfirlich-sprachliche KI-Systeme.
Proceedings der 16.
GI-Jahrestagung.
Berlin etc.
: Springer.Allgayer, J. and C. Reddig (1986): Processing De-scriptions containing Words and Gestures.
A Sys-tem Architecture.
In: C.-R. RoUinger, Hrsg.
:GWAI/OGAI 1986.
Berlin etc.
: Springer.Bolt, R. A.
(1980): 'Put-That-There': Voice andGesture at the Graphics Interface.
ComputerGraphics 14,262-270.Brown, D. C. et al (1979): An ExperimentalGraphics System with Natural Language Input.Computer and Graphics 4, 13-22.Bfihler, K. (1982): The Deictic Field of Languageand Deictic Words.
Abridged translation of K.B/.ihler (1934): Sprachtheorie, part 2, chapters 7and 8.
In: R. J. JarveUa and W. Klein, eds.
:Speech, Place, and Action.
Chichester etc.
: Wi-ley.Carbonell, J. R. (1970): Mixed-Initiative Man-Computer Dialogues.
Cambridge, MA: Bolt, Be-ranek and Newman.Clark, H. H., R. Schreuder and S. Buttrick(1983): Common Ground and the Understandingof Demonstrative Reference.
Journal of VerbalLearning and Verbal Behavior 22, 245-258.Ekman, P. and W. V. Friesen (1969): The Reper-toire of Nonverbal Behavior: Categories, Origins,and Coding.
Semiotica 1, 49-98.F~ihnrich, K. P. et al (1984): The Role ofGraphics.
Technical Report E3/GR, FhG, IAO,Stuttgart.Hanne, K. H., J. P. Hoepelmann und K. P.Ffihnrirh (1986): Combined Graphics/NaturalLanguage Interfaces to Knowledge Based Sys-tems.
Proceedings of the Artificial Intelligenceand Advanced Computer Technology Confer-ence, Wiesbaden, West Germany.Hayes, P. J.
(1986): Steps towards IntegratingNatural Language and Graphical Interaction forKnowledge-based Systems.
Proceedings of the7th European Corlf,-rence on Artificial Intelli-gence, Brighton, England.Kirk, L. and M. Burton (1981): Physical ver-sus Semantic Classification of Nonverbal Forms:A Cross-Cultural Experiment.
In: A.
Kendon,ed.
: Nonverbal Communication, Interaction, andGesture.184Klein, W. (1978): Wo ist hier?
Pr~iliminarien zueiner Untersuchung der lokalen Deixis.
Lingui-stische Berichte 58, 18-40.Kobsa, A. et al (1986): Combining Deictic Ges-tures and Natural Language for Referent Iden-tification.
Proceedings of the llth InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics, Bonn,West Germany.Levelt, W. J. M., G. Richardson and W. La Heij(1985): Pointing and Voicing in Deietic Expres-sions.
Journal of Memory and Language 24, 133-164.Lyons, J.
(1977): Semantics, Vols 1 and 2.
Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press.Minsky, M. (1984): Manipulating Simulated Ob-jects with Real-world Gestures using a Force andPosition Sensitive Screen.
Computer Graphics18, 195-203.Negroponte, N. (1981): Media Room.
Proceedingsof the Society for Information Display 22, 109-113.Pechmann, T. and W. Deutsch (1982): The De-velopment of Verbal and Nonverbal Devices forReference.
Journal of Experimental Child Psy-chology 34, 330-341.Pickering, J.
A.
(1986): Touch-sensitive screens:the technologies and their application.
Int.
J.Man-Machine Studies 25,249-269.Reithinger, N. (1987): Generating Referring Ex-pressions and Pointing Gestures.
To appear in:G. Kempen, ed.
: Natural Language Generation.Dordrecht: KluwerScherer, K. R. (1979): Die Funktionen des Non-verbalen Verhahens im Gespr/ich.
In: K. R.Scherer und H. G. Wallbott, Hrsg.
: NonverbaleKommunikation.
Weinheim/Basel: Beltz.Schmauks, D. (1986a): Formulardeixis und ihreSimulation auf dem Bildschirm.
Ein Oberblickaus linguistischer Sicht.
Memo Nr.
4, Sonder-forschungsbereich 314, Dept.
of Computer Sci-ence, University of Saarbralicken, FR Germany.Schmauks, D. (1986b): Form und Fun.ktion vonZeigegesten.
Ein interdisziplin/irer Uberblick.Bericht Nr.
10, Sonderforschungsbereich 314,Dept.
of Computer Science, University ofSaarbriicken, FR Germany.Sennholz, K. (1985): Grundzfige der Deixis.Bochum: Brockmeyer.Thompson, C. (1986): Building Menu-Based Nat-ural Language Interfaces.
Texas EngineeringJournal 3, 140-150.Wetzel, R. P., K. H. Hanne and J. P. Hoe-pelmann (1987): DIS-QUE: Deictic InteractionSystem-Query Environment.
LOKI Report KR-GR 5.3/KR-NL 5, FhG, IAO, Stuttgart.Wittgenstein, L. (1958): Philosophical investiga-tions.
Oxford: Blackwell.Woods, W. A. et al (1979): Research in NaturalLanguage Understanding: Annual Report.
TR4274, Bolt, Beranek and Newman, Cambridge,MA.185
