MACHINE TRANSLATION, LINGUISTICS, AND INTERLINGUAPetr Sgall and Jarmila Panevov~Faculty of Mathematics and Physics,Charles UniversityMalostransk4 n.25, 118 O0 Praha l, CzechoslovakiaABSTRACTAn adequate, complete, and economicall inguistic theory is necessary for MT andthe question is whether a consistent useof the often unduly neglected dependencysyntax, including a systematic descriptionof topic and focus, cannot serve as a re-liable base for the grammar of an inter-lingua, or of a set of interrelated inter-face structures.i.
As Slocum (198~)conv inc~ly  shows, theattitude towards translation in general,and therefore also towards automatic trans-lation in the U.S.A. never has been basedon urgent wide-spread needs of translatingtechnical texts, and mostly has not beenconnected with broad interest in theoreti-cal background.
Outside the U.S.A., withthe exception of G.E.T.A., Grenoble, theresearch had the character of scatteredprojects carried out by relatively smallgroups; only in the recent years the EUROTRAproject and, especially, the two Japaneseprojects bring some hope as for the possi-bi l ity of sufficiently concentrated re-search.The question whether l inguistics is ableto offer a reliable theoretical basis forMT cannot be answered in a qualif ied waywithout examining such l inguistical ly basedsystems as Garvin~s'fulcrum" approach {whichwas abolished on external grounds, afterthe unfortunate ALPAC report~ or the sys-tems formulated by Kulagina and Apresyan.Certain features of their frameworks, aswell as of Vauquois" (1975; Vauquois andBoitet, 1985~ are more closely connected toclassical structural l inguistics than isthe case with other MT systems.
Also inPrague, the research group of MT and formall inguistics at Charles University has de-voted much effort (starting at the end ofthe 1950"s~ to identify the positive resultsof classical European l inguistics and toreformulate them in a metalanguage thatwould make them usable in the context ofChomskyan (and Montaguean~ methodology andof automated language processing (now seeSgall et al, 1986~.2.
The requirements on l in@uistic theoryas a background for MT can be summarized asfollows:(a~ Adequacy: The theory should underlierelatively complete descriptions reflectingthe structure of language.
Since humans dif-fer from computers (in freely combining fac-tual knowledge and other mental capacitieswith their knowledge and use of language,and in being able to develop their languagewhile using itS, the correspondence betweentheory and its MT application cannot be im-mediate.
The open-endedness of languagemakes it necessary to restrict the complete-ness of the description to a reasonablyestimated core of language, leaving the~oss ib ly  not too large~ periphery inrtheapplication to postediting, etc.99(b) Testability!
It follows from (a)that testabil ity also is limited: not everycounterexample disqualif ies a theory.
(c) Economy: To be applicable, the theo-ry cannot be too complex.
It seems necessaryto draw a boundary line between the systemof language on the one side, and its use orits semantic interpretation on the other,although in several respects it may be use-ful for the applications not to follow thisboundary quite exactly.
(d) Modularity: Since huge programs areextremely diff icult to be handled (debugged,updated, etc.
), priority will be given tosuch a theory that not only allows for adivision of labour between the descript ionof l inguistic and communicative competence- see (c), - but makes also a cooperationbetween specialists in the different layersof language itself possible.The comparison of dif ferent approachesto l inguistic theory as to point (a) is amatter of the theory itself; let us onlynote that many theories seem not to be suf-f iciently adequate in that they do notproperly dist inguish between the three di-mensions of the sentence structure (valencyor theta roles, coordination and apposition,and also topic and focus, which often isalmost altogether neglected I) and the mor-phological categories (tense, aspect, num-ber, definiteness, and so on); the latteroccupy no immediate posit ions in the struc-ture of the sentence with its recursiveproperties, and thus it is not adequate todenote e.g.
preposit ions as if they per-1 The relevance of the topic-focus ar-t iculation for translation and for otheraims of language comprehension can be il lus-trated by the following examples: In thehallway one smokes should be dist inguishedfrom One smokes in the  hallway similarly asFew books are read by many men from Manymen read few books.mitted for unlimited complementation, asverbs do.For point (b) it is important that thetheory uses operational criteria in delim-iting its units and oppositions, thus re-presenting a suitable starting point forimplementable application systems.With regard to (c), the relative gener-ality of the formulations used by the the-ory is relevant; thus e.g.
Chomsky's uni-versal principles are relatively econom-ical.
On the other hand, the abundance ofnodes in the P-markers (cf.
what was justsaid on point (a)) brings along the ne-cessity to use tree pruning and to intro-duce devices making it possible to find anorientation in the unnecessari ly largetrees.As for (d), it seems preferable to workwith two levels of sentence structure andwith a separate level of morphemic repre-sentations in the theory, although in theapplications this pattern may be simplif ied(we are then aware what we have left oute.g.
in our parser, and are able to restorea missing subpart, if this proves to benecessary, e.g.
when the system is to begeneral ized to handle new kinds of texts).A systematic investigation into compar-ing different l inguistic theories fromthese viewpoints has resulted in our pre-ference for dependency grammar, based onvalency or theta roles (see Sgall et al,1986, for a detai led discussion).
A depend-ency based l inguistic descript ion is ade-quate in the quoted respect \[e.g.
the mor-phological values are denoted here by partsof complex node labels); the theory is ful-ly testable and uses operational criteria,and it ensures both economy \[no non-termi-nal symbols are present in the representa-tions although as man N as necessary can beused during the derivation procedure) andmodularity (the underlying representationscontain all the semantically relevant in-100formation, since also the topic-focus ar-t iculation is denoted here).Bloomfield's ?exocentric ?
constructionsare often mistakenly understood as an ob-stacle for dependency syntax; however, as~Robinson (1970):showed, they can be hanvdled without serious diff icult ies withindependency trees.
Let us add that, if con-structions are analyzed in the terms ofword classes (parts of speech), rather thanin those of individual words, than the dis-tributional properties clearly show thate.g.
your sister is a noun group (sincee.g.
Mother or syntax occur w i thouta  deter-miner), to hit the ball is a verb group(due to to read,...), and also a sentencehas a verb as its governor, since in I_~trains no subject (Actor/Bearer) is presentat the level of meaning (or in the under-lying structure).A formal treatment combining dependencysyntax with a descr ipt ion of coordinat ionand apposition, al lowing for an indefinitenumber of sister nodes, was presented byPl~tek et al (1984).As one of the referrresofour papers hasduly recalled, the number of publicationsconcerning dependency grammar is muchsmaller than that on constituent structures,but the popularity of the model is not di-rectly relevant for its evaluation.
There-fore it seems highly useful to notice theadvantages of the less known model, a moreintensive use of which might be of impor-tance for the further development of thefield.3.
An interl in@ua for MT can well be basedon such a theory.
Since the 1960"s - seee.g.Mel?~uk (1962), Vauquois (1962), Sgall(1963) - the research in this direction hasbeen connected with theoretical investiga-tions.
It has been clear that the formula-tion of an interl ingua is a practical task,for the underlying units differ from onelanguage to the other, so that the struc-ture of interl ingua is based rather on thestructural similarit ies (formal universals)of languages than on an assumed identityof their underlying structures, or theirpatternings of meaning.As for the known diff icult ies concerninge.g.
the formulation of fail-soft rules orthe presence of surface clues (see Slocum,1985,5; Vauquois and Boitet, 1985), it ap-pears that for a mult i l ingual system of MTthese disadvantages have to be comparedwith those present in the large number ofbinary systems which are otherwise necess-ary.
The difference between the use of aninterl ingua and of a smaller number of"interfaces" (one for each language)appearsnot to be crucial.
If, for a system includ-ing ~ languages, m among them display acertain opposit ion (that of dual versusplural number, or of gender with personalpronouns, etc.
), then the degree of impor-tance of this opposit ion for the systemdepend& on the difference between n and mand on the importance of the languages dis-playing the opposition.
Extremely marginalopposit ions will probably be ignored in asystem using interfaces as well as in onewith an interlingua.
In this case, a trans-lation between two languages exhibit ing themarginal opposit ion will be faced with asimilar problem as a translation from a"prototypical" language into a "marginal"one (e.g.
the use of dual number will bedetermined - perhaps only for some cases -by contextual clues, rather than by thepresence of dual in the input text).If the relative weight of such surplusdif f icult ies (and result ing mistakes) isconsiderable, then it may be useful to for-mulate interfaces, perhaps not always in aone-to-one correspondence to the processedlanguages, but relating to certain groupsof them.
Certain "dialectal" differences inthe interl ingua would then be useful, each101of which would share some opposition(s)with a group of the processed languages.This may concern the differences betweenlanguages having and not having articles,verbal aspects, various moods, and so on.The substitution of a single interlingua bya set of closely related interface s t ruc -tures <see VauquoM and Boitet, 1985,32; asfor its application in the EUROTRA project,Johnson e ta l .
,  1985,164) perhaps is alsoimportant with regard to handling the se-mantic relationships between the lexicalunits of the languages concerned.This  schematical view can be systemat-ically elaborated only on the basis of ex-perience with multi l ingual MT systems.4.
A not quite negligible experience withMT systems based (at least to a great part~on dependency syntax has been gained al-ready.
The Grenoble group has used a graphgrammar based on this approach within a sys-tem that is multi l ingual, though centredarotmd French (see Vauquois, 1975; Boitetand Nedobejkine, 1981; Vauquois and Boitet,1985,28f); although in this system the de-pendency relations are used along with akind of phrase structure, the importanceof complex node labels and of the syntacticrelations (valency) has always been fullyrecognized.
Also Nagao e ta l .
(1985,esp.98)point out that dependency tree structuresare used in their project (which certainlybelongs to those with the best traditionsand results); in the Eurotra system the de-pendency relations and the notion of "gov(ernor)" play an important role (see e.g.Johnson e ta l .
,  1985).
In Prague, especial lythe Engl ish-to-Czech translation project,the main author of which is Kirschner (1982;1984), is based on a dependency description.5.
The perspectives of MT seem to be con-nected with two major conditions, in addi-tion to the choice of an appropriate under-lying l inguistic theory, which we discussedabove:(a~ As is known, for the resolution ofmany lexical ambiguit ies and also for theidentif ication of grammatical ly obl igatoryvalues of the target language not presentin the input text, a MT system has to in-clude not only a purely l inguistic descrip-tion.
It has to be found out to what de-gree the practical purposes of MT can beachieved by systems "modell ing the world"by such elementary means as sets of seman-tic features.
Where means of this kindwil l  be found to be insufficient, it isprobable that neither data bases of thecommon types will do.
It is then necessaryto look for suitable kinds of knowledgerepresentat ion systems.
(b) The main perspective appears to beconnected with the hope that a wider prac-tical application of MT will lead to a newsituation, in which the construction of MTsystems will no longer be a matter ofsmall research groups scattered and moreor less isolated in dif ferent countries,but there will emerge large-scale and well--coordinated international projects basedon the best results achieved and verif iedby widespread practical application.
Undersuch new circumstances it wil l be possiblenot only to compile grammatical ly well .founded data on tens of thousands of lexi-cal units from different languages, butalso to connect translation systems in aneffective way with broadly based nets ofknowledge representation.
Effective waysof human-machine interaction can then befound, and the formulation of appropriateintermediate languag~wi l l  meet good con-ditions.
Post-edit ing will certainly re~main necessary, the main condit ion beingthat it should not be much more diff icultthan it is with human translations oftechnical texts (although other kinds ofmistakes will prevail).102REFERENCESBoitet Ch.
and N. Nedobejkine (1981), Re-cent developments in Russian-French ma-chine translation at Grenoble, Linguis-tics 19, 199-271Johnson R., King M. and L.des Tombe (1985),EUROTRA~ A multilingual system underdevelopment, Computational Linguisticsii, 155-169Kirschner Z.
~1982), A dependency-basedanalysis of English for the purpose ofMachine Translation, Explizite Beschrei-bung der Sprache und automatische Text-bearbeitung IX, PragueKirschner Z.
\[1984), On a dependency anal-ysis of English for machine translation.Zn Contributions to Functional Syntax,Semantics and Language Comprehension,ed.
by P.Sgall, Prague - Amsterdam,335-358Mel'~uk I.
\[1962), K voprosu o "grammati-~eskom" v jazyke-posrednike.
In: Ma~in-nyj perevod i prikladnaja lingvistika 4,Moscow, 25-45Nagao M., Tsujii J. and J.Nakamura (1985),The Japanese government project for Ma-chine Translation, Computational Linguis-tics ll, 91-110Pl~tek M., Sgall J. and P.Sgall (1984), Adependency base for a linguistic descrip-tion.
In: Contributions to FunctionalSyntax, Semantics, and Language Compre-hension, ed.by P.Sgall, Prague - Amster-dam, 63-98Robinson J.
~1970), Dependency structuresand transformational rules, Language 46,259-285Sgall P. ~1963), The intermediate languagein Machine Translation and the theoryof grammar.
In: American DocumentationInstitute, 26th Annual Meeting, Chicago,Ill., 41-42Sgall P., Haji~ov~ E. and J.Panevov~ ~1986),The Meaning of the Sentence in Its Se-mantic and Pragmatic Aspects, Prague -Dordrecht, HollandSlocum J.
(1985), A survey of Machine Trans-lation: its history, current status,and future prospects, Computational Lin-guistics ll, 1-17Vauquois B.
(1962), Langages artificiels,syst~mes formels et Traduction Automa-tique.
In: Cours ~ l'Et4 de I'OTAN, ed.by A.Ghizetti, Oxford, 1966, 211-236Vauquois B.
(1975), La traduction automa-tique ~ Grenoble.
Documents de linguis-t~que quantitative 24, ParisVauquois B. and Ch.Boitet (1985), Automatedtranslation at Grenoble University,Computational Linguistics ll, 18-36109
