TOWARDS AN INTEGRATEI )  ENVIRONMENT FOR SPANISHDOCUMENT VERIF ICATION AND COMPOSITIONR.
Casajuana, C. Rodriguez, 1,.
Sopefia, C. VillarIBM Madrid Scientific CenterPaseo de la Castellana, 428046 MadridABSTRACTLanguages other than English have received littleattention as far as the application of natural anguageprocessing techniques to text composition is concer-ned.
The present paper describes briefly work underdevelopment aiming at the design of an integratedenvironment for the construction and verification ofdocuments written in Spanish.
in a first phase, adictionary of Spanish has been implemented, togetherwith a synonym dictionary.
The main features of bothdictionaries will be summarised, and how they areapplied in an environment for document verificationand composition.INTRODUCTIONIn the field of document processing many toolsexist today which allow the user to introduce a text instorage, format it, and even, for a few languages, verifythe spelling, punctuation and style i l ,  2, 3, 41.
Englishhas been for a long time TI IE  Natural Language,object of a large number of research and developmentwork in Computational Linguistics.
Other languages,however (Spanish among them), have received littleattention as far as the application of natural anguageprocessing techniques to text composition is concer-ned.The present paper describes briefly work underdevelopment aiming at the design of an integratedenvironment for the construction and verification ofdocuments written in Spanish, for which no similartools exist at the moment.In a first phase, a dictionary of Spanish wasimplemented.
This is a task of multiple interest, adictionary being the one of the basic tools for anyapplication to systems where Natural Language is in-volved.
Thus its development was undertaken withtwo guidelines, completeness and generality.
Atpresent, the dictionary is finished in a versionincluding about 35,000 stems, which, inflected, giverise to more than 400,000 different words.Together with this inflected forms lexicon, asynonym dictionary was also built as a second step inthe text processing system; this dictionary has about15,000 entries.In this paper we summarise the main features ofboth dictionaries and how they are applied in anenvironment for document verification andcomposition.
Present and planned enhancements willbe also described, including the use of a parser ofSpanish and the addition of other features.TIIF, IN FI.ECI'\[:,I) FORMS DICTIONARY"lhe starting point was an analysis of wordfrequency performed on different texts previouslyselected: press articles, novels, essays, etc.
totallingapproximately one million words.
A listing of thewhole set of the entries of the Diecionario de la RealAcademia Espafiola 15\] (DRAE, Dictionary of theSpanish Royal Academy, containing the "official"Spanish language) was studied, and several otherpublished dictionaries were as well collated 16, 7, 8,91.
The information so obtained was classified andfiltered, taking into account he objective and first setup application: the corpus had to cover ttrual writteniangltage, and in this field should account for as muchof the vocabulary as possible.The dictionary consists of a list of inflectedwords, without associated efinitions.
Every word hasadditionally a number of other information: gender,number, lime, person, mode, etc.In general, words belonging to restricted orspecialised omains (medicine, law, poetry, linguistics,etc.)
are not listed.
Neither are colloquial terms,including rude or slang words.
Very specific regionaluses of Spanish have also not been considered (likeArgentina's "voseo': ten~s, querY.s), nor the form ofsubjunctive future (tuviere, quisiere), restricted todayto legal writings.
Many derived forms have also beenexcluded, like diminutives, pejoratives, superlatives(but not Ihe irregulars); as for adverbs finishing in-menle, only the most usual ones have been listed.lnfi~rnlation on the lexicon is contained in twomain files: the base forms file, and the inflectivemorphemes file, which are described in the followingsections.Base furms fileIt includes tile complete list of terms justdescribed, specifying the base form on which theyinflect.
They have pointers referring to the derivativemorphemes file.I-ach entry has the following specifications:!.
Functional category, i.e., verb, noun, adjective,adverb, preposition, conjunction, article,pronoun, interjection: words with more than one52associated part of speech will have as manymarks as categories.2.
Verbs, very complex because of the large numberof irregularities and difficult classification, arequalified as transitive, intransitive or auxiliary.Further slots are foreseen to code their behaviourin the language and their usage at the surfacelevel: complements, adverbials, etc.
Possiblecombinations of verbs and ciitic pronouns arealso marked.3.
There are additional marks for hyphenationpoints (for later use by a formatter performingautomatic syllable partition), and several otherfor foreign and Latin words, geographical terms,etc.Inflective morphemes fileIt specifies the derivative morphemes used in thegeneration of inflected forms starting from theprevious base forms.
A list of paradigms has beenbuilt for each category of nouns, adjectives and verbs,to account for the different models of inflection.The classification takes into account theproblems arising from the automatic processing ofinflections, i.e., it considers as irregularities omebehaviours not considered as such in the literature, forexample, some purely phonetic ases, like z --, e beforee, i (e.g.
eazar -, cace), and cases related with diacriticsigns, both dieresis (e.g.
avergonzar -, avergi~enzo),and accents (e.g.
joven --, j(~venes, carcicter ~ carac-teres).Additionally, it is necessary to consider cases ofincomplete inflections (e.g.
in adjectives, avizor onlyexists in masculine singular, and alisios only in mas-culine plural; in names, alicates exists only in mascu-line plural, afueras only in feminine plural).
As forverbs, this kind of irregularity is present in the so-called defectives (e.g.
llover, abolir, pudrir, etc.
).Finally, there are words with more than onerealisation in one of their forms (e.g.
variz/varice, bothcorrect in feminine singular).
In some adjectives, asimilar problem arises depending on their position: ifthey come in front of the noun their apocopated formappears, but not if they come after (e.g.
buen/bueno,mal/malo), and in verbs, in all subjunctive imperfectforms (e.g.
saliera/saliese), and in a few other isolatedcases (e.g.
the imperative satisfaz/satisface).Together with adjectives marked for gender (e.g.rojo, roja), there are others unmarked (e.g.
amable),and their gender is defined according to the noun theymodify.
Among them, some work in fixed andrestricted contexts, and are defined because they onlymodify masculine or feminine nouns (e.g.
tnrcaz,avizor).It must be noted that the large number ofirregularities in the inflection mechanism has obligedto detail each one of them, as they could not beincluded in any of the general models.
This meansthat many paradigms have been defined which justcomprise a little number of cases.
The completedescription of the classification performed has beenthe object of previous papers \[ I0, I I \].T i le  SYNONYM DICTIONARYTo build the synonym lexicon, a publisheddictionary was used \[12\], which had to be modifieddue both to the specific needs of computer processingand to tile many typographical errors and inconsis-tencies found in its contents.
This has allowed todevelop a thorough study on synonymy together witha complete critique of one of the best-known synonymdictionaries of the Spanish language.First of all, the coherence of both dictionaries hasbeen kept, so that words included in the synonym baseare also present in the main lexicon.The need to keep the semantic onsistency in thedictionary contents was a first objective.
It showed thelittle rigor with which printed dictionaries areconstructed and allowed for the application ofsystematic tests and modifications to our version inorder to keep symmetry, to cater for hyperonymy, tobind cross-referencing into semantically reasonablelimits, etc.
A forthcoming paper will describe theproblems met and the main tasks performed.Starling from syntactic marks in the inflectedforms dictionary, an entry in the synonym dictionarywill appear as many times as parts of speech it isassigned.
For example, the word circular can be anadjective (marked as j, meaning 'circular'), a femininenoun (marked as nf, meaning 'note'), and a verb(marked as v, meaning 'move', 'circulate').
Thecorresponding entries would be:circular: iredondo, curvo, curvado.circular: nforden, aviso*, notificacitn, carta, nota.circular: vandar, moverse, transitar*, pasear, deambular;divulgarse, propagarse, xpandirse, difundirse.Additionally, inside a part of speech, synonyms aregrouped according to the different semantic sense ornuance.
Also allowed are cross references (markedwith asterisks * in the file), which link one synonymto another dictionary entry, thus extending theinformation power of the lexicon.More specific information about the entries canalso be defined by means of the so-called "qualifiers",which introduce further estrictions on the entry wordfor that meaning to apply.
For example, the nouncosta means 'coast', but in plural ~t is also used tomean specifically "costs'.
The verb echar has severaldifferent senses ('throw', "dismiss', emit', etc.
), but itsreflexive form eeharse means 'lie down'.53costa: nplaya, litoral, margen, oriila, borde;< plural >cargas, desembolso, importe.eehar: vexpulsar, repeler, rechazar, despachar, excluir;deponer, destituir;dar, entregar, repartir;.
, .
.
.
.<se>tenderse, acostarse, tumbarse, arrellanarse.DICTIONARY-BASED TEXT COMPOSITIONSpelling verificationThe approach is based on the identification ofall strings in the text which are not present in thedictionary.
Verification algorithms isolate each word(token), look for them in the lexicon and point out tothe user which ones have not been found (byhighlighting them in the screen or using a differentcolour).
A token is thus every sequence of lettersseparated by delimiters (in Spanish: blank, comma,period, colon, semicolon, hyphen, open and closequestion and exclamation marks).
The size of thedictionary will have several obvious implications: thefrequency of correct words that will be reiected, thesearch time, the amount of storage allocated.
Acompromise among all these factors and the use ofseveral compaction mechanisms have allowed its sizeto remain between reasonable limits.The spelling verification performed at thismoment considers each word in the text independentlyof the rest.An additional and interesting possibility of theprogram is that it allows the user to define his/her owndictionary of addenda, where terms not known by thesystem (proper names, technical or specific words) canbe stored.Spelling correctionApart from detecting incorrect erms in the text,the program can also propose for each wrong tokena list of candidates, words very similar to the tokenbut which are included in the dictionary.
This llst ispresented with the alternative terms sorted indecreasing priority order, depending on the value ofa similarity index computed for each word.
This"similarity" is determined by an algorithm, andessentially depends on the number of alterations thatmust be performed on the token to obtain the correctword.
Thus it is a function of the relative differencein length between the token and the word, thedifference in the character sequence due to any of themost typical error sources (transcription, omission,insertion, substitution), the matching of the last letter,etc.The user can choose a word in the proposed list,and the system will automatically replace the wrongterm with the selected one.Morphology functionFor each word in the text the program is able toproduce all its possible base forms and parts of speech(out of context at this first stage).
It can also generatethe complete set of derived forms for each of thosepossibilities.
This is most interesting in Spanish in thecase of unusual inflections, like many irregular anddefective verbs, when in doubt about the use ofaccents, with some special nouns and adjectives, withseldom used terms, etc.Synonym functionThe mechanism is very similar to the onedescribed for alternative terms: when the user asks forsynonyms of a given word in the text these aredisplayed in a window.
At present, words with severalparts of speech having specific synonyms for each ofthem get a multiple display of synonyms for all thoseparts.
For example, synonyms to the word bajo willbe presented in several ists: as a verb (present enseof bajnr: 'get down'), as a noun ('ground floor'), asan adjeclive ('low'), as an adverb ('down'), and as apreposition ('under').
This is, of course, an extremecase, hut there are many similar examples.The user may choose one of the synonyms andautomatically replace for it the word in the text.
Inthis first phase, the synonym function does not inflectthe candidates in the form of the original token.Starting From it, it performs a morphological nalysis,finds its stem and looks for the synonyms in thecorresponding dictionary.
Thus, if the user writesJuan quierea Maria ('John loves Mary') and requestssynonyms for quiere, the system will find the base formquerer ('to love'), and will display, for example, theinfinitive amar, but not area, which is thecorresponding inflected form (third person singularindicative present) of the original verb.
Similarly,when asking for synonyms of ni~as ('girls'), it will givethe list of synonyms for ni~o ('boy'), which is its baseform according to the defined paradigms.PARSING AND OTI IER ENl lANCEMENTSA dictionary-based text composition facility is ofa great help when writing documents, but it is clearlynot enough.
Our next objective is to implement aparser of Spanish and to integrate it, as a firstapplication, into the existing system.
This will haveseveral consequences in the enhancement of its presentcapabilities and will add new possibilities ofverification.54For example, it will allow the processing ofmultiple-word phrases, compounds and adverbials.It will make possible for the synonym feature to onlypropose alternatives for a word in the suitable part ofspeech and exclude all other possibilities according tothe context.It will also allow to overcome some of thelimitations of spelling verification as performed now,by taking into account he context; thus, errors due tothe use of correct words (i.e., included in tiledictionary) in a wrong syntactic environment, will bedetected in most cases.
The main causes ofconfusability now unnoticed that will be highlightedare due to three different ypes of ambiguity:?
Graphical ambiguity: homophone words with agraphic difference in the accent and with differentparts of speech (E.g.
relative vs. interrogativepronoun: cuanto/cudnto, preposition vs. verb:de/dd, conditional vs. affirmative conjunction:si/si, etc.).?
Accentuation ambiguities: based upon the accentchange inside a group of words, sometimes witha different part of speech associated (E.g.
verbvs.
noun: baile/baiN, verb-noun-adjective s.verb: frLo/frit, noun vs. verb vs. verb:cdntara/cantara/cantard, verb vs. verb:ame/amd, etc.).?
Phonetic ambiguities: implied by orthographicproblems based on Spanish phonetics(E.g.asta/hasta, tubo/tuvo, are phoneticallyambiguous; callado/cayado, contexto/contestoalso in some regions).Naturally this would only be the most immediateapplication of the parser, and it must be noted thatsome of the described ambiguities will need a greatdeal of semantic knowledge to be resolved; this we arenot considering for the moment.
Other obvious usesinclude the detection of agreement errors: insideNoun Phrases (in Spanish its elements must agree ingender and number), between the subject and the verbof a sentence, errors in the use of pronouns (typicalmisuses are the so-called "lelsmo" and "laismo'),errors in the order of clitic pronouns, etc.The different elements integrating the systemconstitute a set of different pieces whose application isof course not bound to document composition: seve-ral other objectives are also foreseen for thedictionaries and the parser, a computer-assisted verbconjugation system has already been built for Spanishgrammar students, and other ideas include automaticdocument abstracting, storage and retrieval, inclusionof dictionary definitions and translation into otherlanguages, and document style critiquing.121 Larson, J.
A., ed.
: "Creating, Revising, andPublishing Office Documents" (Chapter 6), in EndUser Facilities in the 1980"s, IEEE, New York 1982.\[31 Cherry, L.: Writing Tools, IEEE Trans.
onCommunications, vol.
30, no.
I, January 1982.\[4\] Peterson, J.L.
: Computer Programs for Detectingand Correcting Spelling Errors, Comm.
of the ACM,Dec.
1980, vol.
23, no.
12.\[5\] Real Academia Espafiola: Diccionario de la Len-gua Espafiola, vigtsima edicitn, Ed.
Espasa-Calpe,Madrid, 1984, 2 vols.\[6\] Moliner, M.: Diccionario de uso del espafiol, Ed.Gredos, Madrid, 1982.\[7\] Casares, J.: Dieeionario ideoltgico de la LenguaEspafiola, Ed.
Gustavo Gill, Barcelona, 1982.\[8\] I)iccionario Anaya de la Lengua, Ed.
Anaya, Ma-drid 198{}.\[9l Seco, M.: Dieeionarin de dudas y dificultades de lalengua espafiola, 9a.
ed., Ed.
Espasa-Calpe, Madrid1986.\[I 01 Casajuana, R., Rodriguez, C.: Clasificaci6n de losverhos castellanos para un diccionario en ordenador,Actas l er.
Congreso de Lenguajes Naturales y Len-guaies Formales, Barcelona, octubre 1985.\ [ I l l  Casajuana, R., Rodriguez, C.: Verificaci6n orto-grfifica co castellano; la realizaei6n de un diccionarioen ordenadnr, Espafiol Actual, no.
44, 1985.\[121 S,~inz de Robles, F.C.
: Diccionario espafiol desin6nimos y ant6nimos, Ed.
Aguilar, 1984.REFERENCES\[I\] Andrt,  J.: Bibliographie analytique sur les"manipulations de textes", Technique eL Scienceslnformatiques, vol.
1, no.
5, 1982.55
