REFTEX - A CONTEXT-BASED TRANSLATION AIDPoul Soren KjersgaardUnivers i ty of OdenseCampusvej 55DK-5230 Odense MABSTRACTThe system presented in this paper pro-duces bi l ingual  passages of text from anoriginal (source) text and one (or more)of its t ranslated versions.The source text passage includes wordsor word compounds which a translator  wantsto retr ieve for the current t rans lat ing ofanother text.
The target text passage isthe equivalent version of the source textpassage.
On the basis of a compar ison ofthe contexts of these words in the concor-ded passage and his own text, the transla-tor has to decide on the uti l i ty of thetranslat ion proposed in the target textpassage.The program might become a component oft rans lator 's  work bench.I n t roduct ionComputers can contr ibute to t rans lat ioneither automat ica l ly  or  as an aid to thehuman translator (machine-a ided transla-tion).
The latter represents a large spec-trum of di f ferent approaches as to the de-gree of human intervent ion in the transla-tion process and to the method(s).
Somesystems are semi-automat ic  in the sensethat they only ask for human intervent ionfor the resolut ion of ambiguit ies (Melby,1981).
Other systems are designed to re-l ieve the human translator  of some tediousaspects (such as d ict ionary look-up) ofthe translat ion work, either interact ive lyvia a terminal or by batch process ingovernight.
As to method(s),  most systemsare based on dict ionary look-ups - some-times combined with automatic insert ion ofthe retr ieved equivalents  (McNaught, So-mers, 1979).This paper will descr ibe an a l ternat ivemethod, REFTEX.
A major d i f ference betweenREFTEX and most other machine-a ided trans-lation systems that I know of is that REF-TEX emphasises the context, whereas othersystems rely on bi l ingual  d ict ionar iescontain ing translat ions (sometimes uncom-mented) and possibly def in i t ions or ex-planatory remarks.The system was first implemented on aCDC mainframe instal lat ion,  but has nowbeen converted to an IBM XT-microcomputer .The primary scope of the program is toprovide a supplemental  aid for humantranslators.The pr inc ip les of REFTEXThe name of the system, REFTEX, is anacronym for reference text.
Its main cha-racter ist ics  can be summsrised as follows:The system is meant to be used when thetranslator  comes across some word or wordcompound that cannot be looked up in ad ict ionary or the t rans lat ions of whichdo not seem relevant in the context ofthe actual translat ion.
The translatorcan then have recourse to texts that havealready been translated, in order to tryto retr ieve the wanted word(s) and its/their t ranslat ion(s) .
Such texts exist inan or ig inal  (source language) version andone or more translated (target language)versions.
In REFIEX, such texts are de-s ignated reference texts.
During execu-tion of the program, the program will ac-cess passages (concordances) of the ori-ginal text that contain the word and theequivalent  passages of (one of) the trans-lated versions.
The translator will thendecide if the translat ion contained in thetarget language version is useful in theactual translat ion.It is an interact ive, screen-or ientedsystem that can be used by a transistorduring the transIat ion process.
In thepresent version, the text to be transla-ted and its t rans lat ion are supposed toexist independent ly  on paper, but nothingprevents the implementat ion of an integra-ted version using windows (cf.
last sec-tion).REFTEX can thus be conceived of as acomputer ised combinat ion of bi l ingual  con-cordances used in phi lo logy (usually onancient texts) and the manual use of trans-lated text as an aid for the translator.8ut in contrast to tradit ional  concordancemaking, the project does not aim at pro-ducing a f inished product of the works ofan author, but at supplying the translatorwith an ad hoc tool.109The REFTEX systemREFTEX has been implemented as a pro-gram package of two independent programs:ARBORAL and REFTEX.The former uses one or more s l ight lypre-edi ted reference texts as input andtransforms each into an equivalent datastructure that contains both the or iginalinformation (thus permit t ing a reconstruc-tion of the or iginal  text) and some newinformat ion which Faci l i tates the search-ing of words in the text and the concor-dance making.The data structure is organised as tworecords.
The first one contains a node oran index for each diFFerent word of thetext together with some satel l i te inForma-tion: absolute word Frequencies and point-ers to the First occurrence of the word.The second record is a list structure con-ta ining a reference for each indiv idualword of the reference text to its posit ionin the first record, and pointers to pos-sibly fo l lowing occurrences of the wordand to the beginning of the paragraph(concordance) that contains the word.Once the f in ished data structure hasbeen establ ished,  the program writes it ona file, from where it can be accessed bythe main program REFTEX.The pre-edi t ing of the reference textthat was ment ioned above consists of theinsert ion in the source text of periodmarkers (the number sign: #) together witha number that uneqivocal Iy  ident i f ies eachpassage.
A passage normal ly consists  ofone period, possibly two.
Then, paral le lperiod markers and numbers are insertedinto the target text(s) to ensure the re-tr ieval of paral le l  extracts (concordances)of the source and target texts.
If thispre-edi t ing were not carr ied out, it wouldnot be possib le to extract paral le l  pas-sages, if the source and target languagesinvolved are st ructura l ly  d i f ferent  in re-spect to modes of expression.
And even forc losely related languages such as the Scan-dinavian languages, this would probably bethe case.REFTEX is the part of the program pack-age that will be used by the translatorduring the process of translat ion.Program execut ion starts by asking thetranslator  to key in names of the pair ofreference texts he/she wants to use forsolving the problems of the actual trans-lation.
The program then asks for the firstkey word to be searched in the referencetext, whose equivalents  the translatorwants to know.
If the reference source textcontains that word, the program will printout the passage conta in ing the first occur-fence of the'word together with the equi-valent passage of the target language ver-sion.
On the basis of his world knowledge(pragmatics) and knowledge of the two lan-guages involved, the translator  now has todecide whether the source language passageis suf f ic ient ly  s imi lar to the context ofthe actual t rans lat ion to permit reusingthe translat ion contained in the targetlanguage passage.
The decis ion of coursedepends on the qual i ty of the t rans latedreference text and rel ies on the transla-tor's abi l i ty to detect possib le errors.If the first b i l ingual  concordance doesnot contain an acceptable translat ion,  thetranslator  can "scrol l" to the fo l lowingoccurrence(s) ,  unti l  he finds an adequatet rans lat ion or the reference text is ex-hausted.
If either the word does not existin the reference text or it does not haveappropr iate translat ions,  it will be savedin a special  array for non- ret r ieved wordsand can be searched in another referencetext, after the  t ranslator  has f in ishedthe list of words or express ions that hewants to look up.
In case that words havebeen saved in this array, the program willask for another pair of reference texts.Supposing that they are avai lable,  theprogram will try to retr ieve passages con-taining the words that were saved.An addit ional  feature of REFTEX is asemi -automat ic  rout ine that enables theprogram to retr ieve inf lected forms of aword, for instance feminine and/or pluralforms as in the Spanish word espaSol -espaSola, espa~oles,  espa~olas.
The rou-tine solely re l ies  on formal character i s -tics of words (such as word endings) andnot on semantic or other markers thatwould imply some sort of "understanding"of the word (as is the case in many gram-mars).
For the time being, the rout ine hasbeen implemented for regular nouns, ad-jectives, verbs and part ic ip les  in Frenchand Spanish.Computat iona l  concordance makingGiven that the REFTEX-approach rel ieson a b i l ingual  concordance,  this sect ionwill br ief ly introduce two of the problemsthis causes: word- form di f fus ion and homo-form- insens i t iv i ty .
The former problem re-f lects the wish to group together dif fe-rent inf lected forms of the same word.
Thesolut ion proposed in REFTEX is to departfrom the pr imary form and consequent ly  ge-nerate inf lected forms automat ica l ly ,  whenregular and manual ly,  when irregular.The latter problem ref lects the homo-graph or polysemy problem.
To solve thisproblem completely,  one would need eithera sort of tagging (requir ing extensivepre-edi t ing)  or some semantic analyzer.Neither of these solut ions has been chosenin the REFTEX-approach.
A "pragmatic"  so-lution, based on the immediate context,has been developed, thus reducing the a-mount of superf luous informat ion or "noise".I10An example will i l lustrate its function:The French word "appl icat ion" has mult ip lemeanings, and may in some texts be quitefrequent.
If the key word to be looked upis the "compound preposi t ion "en appl icat ionde", the word takes on yet another meaning.In order to narrow the search field, REFTEXpermits the translator to look for the word"appl icat ion" together with "en" and "de".In this way, a lot of, though not all,i rrelevant informat ion will be excluded.Methodologica l  cons iderat ionsThe use of b i l ingual  concordances im-plies that REFTEX can be character ised asa context -or iented translat ion aid in op-posit ion to the d ic t ionary-or iented ap-proach that most machine-a ided systems relyon.These two approaches both possess weak-nesses.
The problem of a context -or ientedapproach can b~ restated as the quest ionof how re l iab le  the t rans la t ion  of the re-Ference source text  i s ,  whereas the pro-blem of a d ic t ionary -or iented  approach maybe the d i f f i cu l t ies  of de f in ing  prec i se lythe words of a language (c f .
Wi t tgenste in ) .In fac t ,  the d i f fe rence  between the two ap-proaches comes down to the quest ion ofwhether words possess an independent mean-ing, defined at the " langue" - leve l  or the i rmeaning is in f luenced by the actual  contex-tua l  use of the words, the "paro le" - leve l .The d i f fe rence  between the two approach-es may be i l l us t ra ted  by a well-known ex-ample from the MT- l i te ra ture :  the Englishverb " to  know", which is  rendered in manyEuropean languages by two d i f fe rent  verbs.Does th i s  verb have two d is t inc t  meaningswhich the lex icographer  can account for  orwould i t  be pre ferab le  to le t  the t rans la -to r  decide the re levant  equ iva lent  on thebasis of a ser ies  of b i l ingua l ly  concordedexamples?
A s imi la r  example would be theGerman word "Schlagsahne" which is renderedin to  Danish by two d i f fe rent  words: p iske-f lede (cream) and fledeskum (whipped cream).The strength of a b i l ingua l  d ic t ionaryapproach is of course i t s  ab i l i ty  in manycases to convey to the user a fa i r l y  goodidea of the meaning of a word in anotherlanguage.The strength of an context -o r iented  ap-proach is i t s  ab i l i ty  to help deciding( jus t )  which among a number of d i f fe rentproposals should be re ta ined for  the cur-rent t rans la t ion .
And, needless to say, insome s i tuat ions ,  i t  w i l l  cer ta in ly  be pos-s ib le  to combine the two approaches in or -der to make the best out of each.The be l ie f  that  the l ingu is t i c  contextcont r ibutes  to determining the meaning ofwords is of course impl ied in the use of acontext -o r iented  approach.
Supposing thatthis holds true, another aspect of the ap-proach is to determine whether the impactof the context is equal ly strong for anysub-vocabulary.
In the negative, this wouldmean that a context - re lated approach wouldbe less relevant in some cases.No conclus ive answer has been given tothat question, but it seems fairly reason-able to suppose that the more specia l isedthe vocabulary is the less the meaning ofthe word is inf luenced by the context.
Insuch cases, the uti l i ty of the REFTEX ap-proach may be the poss ib i l i ty  to retr ievenewly coined compounds that have not yetbeen lexical ised, or "loose" co l locat ionsthat never appear in dict ionar ies.A l ternat ive appl icat ionsThe primary scope of the program - aswas stated in the introduct ion - is toprovide a supplemental  aid for human trans-lators.
In that respect, it could probablybecome an integrated part of a t rans lator 'swork bench Or amanuensis  (Kay, 1980), en-abl ing the translator  to carry out allparts (translat ion, d ict ionary and refe-rence text look-ups, text processing) ofthe translat ion process.
This part of theproject has not been completed.A context -or iented approach may also bean appropr iate tool for lex icographers  andother researchers because it can providethe "raw mater ia l"  for syntact ic  investi-gations as well.
The system might thusprove useful for making "translat ion ruIes",i.e.
rules stat ing how to transIate syn-tactic phenomena from one language intoanother.Relevant l i teratureArthernt Peter: Machine Translat ion andcomputer ized Terminology Systems; a Trans-lator 's .v iewpoint  pp.
77-109 in Snel l (ed.)
:Translat ing and the Computer.
North Hol-land.
Den Haag 1979.Carest ia -Greenf ie ldt  Carest ia et Serain,Daniel: La traduct ion assist4e par ordina-teur: Des banques de terminologie  aux sy-stbmes interact i fs  de traduction.
Paris1976.Kay~ Martin: The Proper Place of Men andMachines in Language Translat ion.
Xerox.Palo Alto/Cal.
1980.McNaught,  John and Somers~ H.L.
: The Trans-lator as a Computer User.
UMIST.
Manches-ter  1979.111Melby~ Alan K.: Translators and Machines -Can They Cooperate?
in L ' in format ique auservice de la traduction.
Num~ro specialde META 26.1.
Montreal  1981.112
