TINTEGRATING SEMANTICS kNO FLEXIBLE SYNTAX BY EXPLOITINGISONORPHISM BETWEEN GRAIelATICAL AND SEMANTICAL RELATIONSNorena Dan ie l i ,  Franco Fer rara ,  Rober to  Gemel lo ,  C1audio Ru l lentCSELT - Cent ro  S tud i  ?
Laborator i  Te lecoaun icez lon i  -V ia  G .Re lss  Roao l i  274,  10148 Tor ino ,  ITALY?
ABSTRACTThis work concerns in tegrat ion  between syntaxand semantics.
Syntact i c  and semantic ac t iv i t iesre ly  on separate bodies o f  knowledges.
In tegrat ionis  obta ined by exp lo i t ing  the isomorphism betweengrammatical  re la t ions  (among immediate const i tu~er rs )  and conceptual  re la t ions ,  thanks to  a l im i tedset  of  formal mapping ru les .
Syntact i c  ana lys i sdoes not const ruct  a l l  the exp l i c i t  parse t rees  butjus t  a graph that  represents  a l l  the p laus ib legrammatical  re la t ions  among immediate const i tuents .Such graph g ives  the semantic in terpreter ,  based onConceptual Graphs formal ism,  the d i sc r iminat ivepower requ i red  to es tab l i sh  conceptual  re la t ions .I .
INTRODUCTIONIn the f ie ld  of  automat ic  natura l  languageunderstanding,  the problem of  connect ing syntax andsemantics has been faced in th ree  d i f fe rent  ways.Some authors  are persuaded that  understandingnatura l  language requ i res  no use of  syntact i c  know-ledge.
They c la im that  semantic representat ion  canbe bu i l t  d i rec t ly  from the sur face s t r ing ,  w i thoutthe help of  almost any syntact i c  source (1) .Other authors  proposed h igh ly  syntact i c  sys-tems, s ta r t ing  from the idea that  the represen-ta t ion  of  the syntact i c  s t ruc ture  is  p re l iminary  tothe understanding process (2) .While the work of this second group of resear-chers was concerned mainly with the understandingof individual sentences, the work of the partisansof semantics was about the understanding of wholetexts .This sh i f t ing  of  a t tent ion  substa ined the ideathat  syntax and semantics should be used in anin tegrated  way.
Most researchers  have thought  thatsemantics and syntax  should be in tegrated  w i threspect  to both the representat ion  and the pro-cessing (3) ;  o thers  have c la imed that  i t  i s  moree f f i c ient  to  bu i ld  a fu l l -b looded syntact i c  repre -sentat ion  dur ing  the pars ing  process (4) .
(1) See the system IPP \[Schank 80\] .
(2) The LUNAR system \[Woods ?2\] is  a c lass ica lexample.
(3) An example is  the Conceptual Ana lyzer  \[Birnbaum81\] .
(4) See MOPTRANS \ [Ly t inen  85\] ,Our approach shares some communal i t ies  w i th  thelas t  pos i t ion .
We reckon that  semantic and syntac -t i c  processes should re ly  on separate knowledgebodies.
Uur e f fo r t  is  main ly  focused on the rea l i -za t ion  of  the in tegrat ion  by exp lo i t ing  the i so -morphism between syntact i c  s t ruc tures  and semanticrepresentat ions ,  ra ther  than by making syntact i cand semantic processes in teract ,  as i t  happens inprev ious  in tegrated  parsers  (5) .
The idea of  i so -morphism is  not car r ied  out  through one- to -one  cor -respondence between syntact i c  ru les  and semanticones - as in Montague- insp i red  parsers  (6) ,  but bymapping in a formal way grammatical  and conceptualre la t ions .
The use of  grammatical  re la t ions  as in -te rmed ia te  leve l  between syntax and semantics wasa l so  adopted in the KING KONG parser  (7) ,  but th i ssystem is s t i l l  more near to  the pos i t ion  whichwants the representat ion  of  syntax and semantics aswe l l  as the i r  processes to in teract ,  wh i le  ourchoice is  to  ma inta in  separate  these d i f fe rentsources of  knowledge.The subsequent paragraphs descr ibe  how th i shypothes is  works in SHEZLA (Syntax Help ingExpectat ions  In Language Ana lys i s ) ,  a p ro to typedeveloped at  CSELT laborator ies  (Tur in ,  I ta ly ) .
Theaim of  SHEILA is  to  ana lyze and to ext rac t  re levantinformation from news (coming from the I ta l ian  newsagency "ANSA").
The system is in i t ia l l y  beingapplied to texts describing variations in the top-management of commercial societies; i t  has beenfu l l y  implemented on a Symbolics Lisp machine.SHEILA takes advantage both from the use of expec-tations and from the combination of the results ofa non-conventional syntactic analysis with theac t iv i ty  of a surface semantic analysis, based onthe formalism of conceptual graphs (8).
In thispaper we describe just the principles which guidethe integration between syntax and semantics.SHEILA correct ly analyzes a set of th i r ty  news,generating for each of them a set of records for are lat ional  data base.2.
THE PROBLEM AND OUR PROPOSALIn text  understanding systems syntax and seman-t i cs  have almost always been dea l t  w i th  in tegra -t ion  of the i r  process ing.
Usua l ly  th i s  k ind  of(5) See PSLI3 \ [F rederk ing  85\ ] ,  FZDO \[Lesmo 85\] andWEDNESDAY-2 \ [Stock 86\ ] .
(6) See ABSITY \ [H i rs t  84\ ] .
(7) See \[BAYER 65\](8) See \[Sowa 84\] and a l so  the four th  paragraph be-low.278systems are semantic driven and they do only localsyntactic checks during analysis.
Doing local syn-tactic checks only involves l i t t le  amount of syn-tactic knowledge and that is misleading in solvingproblems as anaphoric reference, prepositionalattachment, conjunction and so on.In a d i f fe rent  approach the in tegrat ion  hasbeen rea l i zed  dur ing  the syntact i c  s t ruc ture  repre -sentat ion  construction: the syntactic parser makesuse of semantic information to handle structuralambiguities.The quest ion ing  done by the syntact i c  ana lyzerto the semantic component a~ms to cut  down thenumber of parse t rees ,  but very  many ru les  arerequ i red  fo r  th i s  quest ion ing ,  which has alwaysbeen the most domain-dependent par t  of  natura llanguage understanding systems.In designing SHEILA we chose another way ofintegrating syntax with semantics.
The basic schemamay look ra ther  c lass ic :  the system produces a syn-tac t i c  ana lys i s  of  the text ,  d r iven  on the basis  ofpure ly  syntact i c  knowledge.
The semantic ana lyzerchecks the syntact i c  output  to see i f  the semanticre la t ions  among words are supported by i t .But a classical syntax-first analysis is highlyineff icient.
I t  cannot solve structural ambiguitieswithout the help of any semantic source and thatleads to an explosion of the number of syntacticparse trees, some of them representing ar t i f i c ia lsyntactic ambiguities.
So there are two problems:reducing the explosion of ambiguities and deter-mining how semantic patterns for each word interactwith syntax.Our proposal faces these problems through theoriginal combination of two key ideas, i .e .
:I) a f lexib le syntactic analysis, which is per-formed by constructing not a l l  the exp l ic i tparse trees but just a graph, representing al lthe plausible grammatical relations among imme-diate constituents;2) a formal way of interaction between syntax andsemantics exploiting the isomorphism betweensyntact i c  s t ruc tures  (grammatical  re la t ionsamong immediate const i tuents )  and semantic ones(conceptual  re la t ions ) .Such f lexible syntactic analysis gains adiscriminative power (sufficient for aiding seman-tics in solving ambiguities) and avoids the explo-sion in the parse trees number.
Furthermore, themapping between grammatical and conceptual rela-tions can be defined through a limited set of for-mal rules.3.
THE SYNTACTIC ANALYSISOur system has the goal of generating a seman-t ic  structure that has to be consistent with thesyntactic form used to convey i t  in the text.
Theaim of syntactic analysis is to support semantics.A f i r s t  act iv i ty  performed by the syntactic@nalyzer is the recognition of constituents of thephrase structure of text.
This is done by applyinga set of rewriting phrase structure rules forI tal ian language.
These rules u t i l i ze  the output ofa prev ious  morpholog ica l  ana lys i s  that  assigns towords morpholog ica l  and lex ica l  features  (gender,number, lex ica l  ca tegory  and so on) .In this analysis phase the application of thesyntactic rules is limited to the recognition ofthe basic constituents of the phrase structure ofthe sentences.
A basic constituent (BC, henceforth)is a NP, a PP or a VP described at a minimal levelof complexity.
At this level the grammar does notinclude rules of the form "S --> NP - VP" or"NP --> NP - PP", but i t  does include al l  the ruleswhich describe the internal structures of BCs atthe lowest level of recursion.Every BC has a head and may have one (or more)modifier.
The head of a BC is the characteristicword, the word without which a group of words wouldfa i l  to be an instance of that particular BC.
Sothe head of a NP is a noun, that of a PP is a pre-position, that of a VP is a verb, etc.(g).
The headof a BC carries on al l  the morphological, syntac-t ical  and lexical features of the BC i t se l f  (10).Let us consider the sentence(I) "Arturo vide una commedia con Meryl Streep.
".which may be interpreted both(1.a) Arthur and Meryl Streep saw a play togetherand(1.b) Arthur saw Meryl Streep while she was workingin a play.At this f i r s t  level of analysis (I) is rewrittenasPPv { { / \N V ART N PREP N N { { { { { { {ARTURO VIDE UNA COMMEDIA CON MERYL STREEP(9) The case of PP constitutes a partial  exceptionto this principle.
In fact while for syntax issufficient to know al l  the relevant informa-tion concerning the preposition, semanticsalso need to know the information con-cerning the head of the NP which forms the PP.
(10) This definit ion of head encompasses al lconstructions (endocentric and exocentric);i t  is closer to the tradit ional notion ofgoverning categories than the definit ion givenby Bloomfield \[Bloomfield 35\] in terms ofdistr ibution.
See \[Mil ler 85\].279The output  of  th i s  f i r s t  step of  syntact i c  ana lys i sis a s t ruc ture  that  inc ludes the syntact i c  ambi-gu i t ies  which w i l l  be proper ly  t reated  at  thesecond leve l  of  ana lys i s  (11).The second leve l  o f  syntact i c  ana lys i s  has thegoal of  so lv ing  the problems about p repos i t iona lphrase attachment,  noun phrase mod i f i ca t ion  andcon junct ion  and that  of  es tab l i sh ing  grammaticalre la t ions  among BCs (12).
In the usual syntact i capproach th i s  ac t iv i ty ,  performed among morecomplex const i tuents ,  leads to the exp los ion  ofs t ruc tura l  ambigu i t ies .
In our case the problem ofhandl ing ambigu i ty  s t rong ly  a r i ses :  in fac t  thesyntact i c  ana lyzer  has been designed in o rder  tot reat  a la rge  var ie ty  of  rea l  texts  which conta inwords out  of  the i r  p re fer red  grammatical  o rder  orwhich present  e l l ip t i ca l  const ruct ions  or ,  f ina l ly ,which present  very  complex grammatical  const ructs .To reach such an adequacy we re lax  the grammarconst ra in ts ,  but that  may cause the generat ion  ofa r t i f i c ia l  s t ruc tura l  ambigu i t ies  (13) .
In o rder  toso lve  th i s  problem, we see a l l  the groups of  BCshaving the same head as be long ing to  an equ iva lencec lass  of const i tuents .
Let us cons ider  an exampleconcerning th i s  important  po in t .
In I ta l ian  thephrase "I1 s indaco Rossi di  Tor ino"  ("The majorRossi of  Tur in" )  may invo lve  some s t ruc tura l  ambi-gu i ty  i f  i t  has to  be parsed w i thout  the help ofsemantic h in ts .
In fac t ,  th i s  noun phrase can meanboth that  Rossi is  the major o f  Tur in  and thatRossi is  a major who comes from Tur in .
Performing ac lass ica l  ana lys i s  th i s  ambigu i ty  generates twod i f ferent structural descriptions.
The f i r s tinterpretation can be described as:NPNP ppf A AIL SINDACO ROSSI Ol TORINO(11) At this l eve l  we have not so many ambiguitiesbecause the linguis-tic phenomena whichcause them are s t i l l  not faced.
In th i s  phaseof  ana lys i s  lex ica l  ambigu i ty  ( invo lv inguncer ta in ty  about the lex ica l  ca tegory  ofa g iven word) on ly  a r i ses ;  th i s  k ind  ofambigu i ty  is  t reated  by tak ing  in to  accountthe syntagmat ic  re la t ionsh ips  of  the wordsin quest ion ;  the ana lyzer  keeps d i f fe rentin terpreta t ions  fo r  the ambigu i ty  which cannot be so lved w i thout  semantics.
(12) Grammatical relations are pr imit ive notionssuch as subject, object, complement and soon.
(13) The constraining power is provided setting upa structural homology between syntactic andsemantic levels and performing the formal map-ping between grammatical relations and concep-tual relations.while the second interpretation can be describedas:NPNP NPA AI1 SINDACO ROSSIPPfDI TORINOIn our analysis we handle this problem startingfrom the consideration that in both the interpreta-tions the NP "Rossi" is the head of the resultingstructural unit.
So the analyzer generates only onerepresentation for the new construction in thisway:SPECIFICATIONNP NP PPA AIL SINDACO ('R~SSI~ Ol TORINONow, let us consider this construction as beingpart of a sentence:(2) " I l  sindaco Rossi di Torino parte per Roma.
""The major Rossi of Turin is leaving for Rome.
"The ascription of grammatical relations among thephrases of this sentence requires the recognitionof the NP " l l  sindaco Rossi di Torino" as subjectof the sentence and the PP "per Roma" as modifierof the VP.
The detection of the subject re lat iondoes not necessarily involve the problem of struc-tural ambiguity because this is l imited at therelations between the two NPs and the f i r s t  PP.
Sothe analyzer gives the following description of thesentence:SPECIFIC.
SUBJECTP ~ V  COMPLEM.N P~'"~ '~ppIL SINDACO C13;?~3 Ol TORINO PARTE PER ROMAThanks to this treatment of ambiguity, the syn-tactic structure of this sentence can be describedby on ly  one representation, while a c lass ica l  syn-tac t i c  analysis would generate at least two repre-280sentations.
Our single representation consists of agraph of BCs connected by grammatical relations,which are established unless syntactic knowledgeguarantees that no constituent in the two classescan be connected by such relations.
In this way theprocessing is e f f i c ient  almost as in the case ofcomplete parallelism between syntax and semanticsand, in addition, there is complete compatibi l i tywith a paral lel  implementation.Note that  none of the poss ib le  in terpretat ionshas been los t :  a l l  them are passed to the semanticin terpreter  which operates the reso lu t ion  of ambi-gu i ty  tak ing in to  account both the connections bet -ween the BCs pointed out by syntact i c  ana lys is  andthe semantic p laus ib i l i ty  of the proposed connec-t ions .The resulting discriminative power of syntax iss t i l l  suff ic ient for helping semantics inestablishing the correct semantic relations amongconcepts denoted by words.4.
THE SEMANTIC ANALYSISOur working hypothesis is that we can representthe meaning of a text start ing from the meanings ofwords and from the syntactic structure of the text.We represent the surface semantic s t ruc ture  byconceptual graphs (14).
A conceptual graph is  anor iented  b ipar t i te  graph w i th  two kinds of nodes:concept nodes ( represent ing ent i t ies )  and concep-tual  re la t ion  nodes ( represent ing semantic re la -t ions  among concepts) .
A Type Hierarchy is  def inedover concepts.The semantic information is distr ibuted onwords by means of canonical graphs, which describeconcepts connoted by the words of the domain interms of their  semantic context; they represent theimpl ic i t  pattern of relationships necessary for asemantically well-formed text.
In each canonicalgraph we can distinguish a head (the main conceptnode of the canonical graph i t se l f )  and a semanticcontext (see figure I ) .
The Type Hierarchy is ataxonomy of domain concepts used to inher i t  seman-t ic  contexts and guide graph joins.The aim of surface semantic ana lys is  is  toes tab l i sh  semantic re la t ions  among the head nodesof canonical graphs connoted by the words of text .F i r s t ,  the canonical  graphs are ac t ivated  (copiedin the working memory); then the act ivated  graphsare jo ined,  superimposing context  nodes on headnodes according wi th  the Type Hierarchy;  so re la -t ions  are estab l i shed among head concepts.When establishing a semantic re lat ion,  themapping with syntax allows the evaluation of i tssyntact i c  soundness: the syntact i c  ana lys is  output(14) The theory of Conceptual Graphs is  presentedby \[Sowa, 1984\].
This formalism is a genera l i -za t ion  of var ious previous approaches to therepresentat ion  of the semantic re la t ionshold ing among words such as frames, semanticnetworks and conceptual dependency.is checked to see i f  a grammatical relat ion sup-ports the proposed semantic one.
Otherwise thesemantic relat ion is not established.5.
INTEGRATING SYNTAX AND SEMANTICSDuring semantic analysis relations between con-cept nodes are established only i f  they are sup-ported by the resu l t  of syntact i c  ana lys i s .Given a semantic re lat ion,  i t  is necessary tosee i f  there is a corresponding grammatical rela-t ion.
The correspondence between grammatical rela-tions and semantic relations (mapping) is solvedthrough the notion of head which has been intro-duced both in syntax (heads of BCs) and in seman-t ics (heads of canonical graphs).The semantic relations and the grammaticalrelations must relate to the same couple of lexicalitems; in other words such lexical items must beboth the heads of the BCs (involved by the gram-matical relat ion) and the heads of the conceptualgraphs (involved by the semantic re lat ion) .A semantic relat ion SR between two head nodesHNi and HNj, having as heads the words Wi and Wj,can only be established i f :I) there is a grammatical relat ion GR between twoBCs, BCi and BCj, whose heads are Wi and Wjrespectively.2) semantic relat ion SR is compatible with thegrammatical relat ion GR and with the set offeatures Fi and Fj associated to BCi and BCj.Conditions are ver i f ied through the application ofa mapping rule among a l imited set.
Each semanticrelat ion inside a semantic context of a canonicalconceptual graph is augmented with the indicationof a mapping rule.A mapping rule is a l i s t  of plausible gram-matical relations that can correspond to the seman-t ic  re lat ion.In a mapping rule each grammatical relat ion canbe constrained by an activation condition thatrelates to the morphologic and syntactic featuresof the involved BC classes.5.1 An exampleLet us consider the example of the figure 2.The join J1 of the head conceptual node HNIwith the context node CN2,1 of the head node HN2causes a conceptual relat ion AGENT to beestablished between concept nodes HNI and HN2.
Suchhead concept nodes correspond to words WI ("John")and W2 ("eats") at the lexical level.Such conceptual relat ion has an associatedmapping rule which requires a grammatical relat ionof a certain kind (e.g.
"subject").
Such gram-matical relat ion must have been established by syn-tact ic  analysis between two BCs having WI and W2 astheir  heads.
As that is the case of figure 2, thejo in J1 can be made.281Di f fe rent ly ,  j o in  J4 between HN3 and CN2,1 cannot be es tab l i shed  as i t  would cause an AGENT re la -t ion  between conceptual  nodes HN2 ( "eat" )  and HN3( "ch icken" ) ;  such semantic re la t ion  is  not sup-ported by a su i tab le  grammatical  re la t ion .
In fac tthere is a grammatical re lat ion between BC2 andBC3, but i t  is not the correct one because thegrammatical relat ion "object" can not correspond tothe semantic relat ion AGENT.To g ive  an idea of  the mapping ru les ,  theMR-AGENT mapping ru le  is sketched.
I t  is  used tomap the conceptual  re la t ion  AGENT on the gram-mat ica l  re la t ion  "sub jec t "  i f  the analyzed sentenceis  ac t ive  or  on the grammatical  re la t ion  "agent ive"i f  the sentence is  pass ive :MR-AGENT : sub jec t  i f  BC1 is ACTIVE andBCl and BC2 agree.agent ive  i f  BC1 is  PASSIVE andBC2 is  a "by-phrase"6.
CONCLUSIONThe SHEILA system has been presented as anat tempt to so lve  the problem of  in tegrat ing  syntaxand semantics.
The authors  propose that  syntact i cand semantic processes should re ly  on d i s t inc tbodies of  knowledge and that  the in teract ion  bet -ween syntax and semantics should be obta ined byexp lo i t ing ,  in a formal  way, the isomorphism bet -ween syntact i c  and semantic s t ruc tures .
In o rder  toavo id  the lack of e f f i c iency  character i z ing  asyntax - f i r s t  parser ,  the authors  have designed af lex ib le  syntax which, w i thout  exp lod ing  the s t ruc -tu ra l  ambigu i t ies ,  supp l ies  semantic in terpreterw i th  knowledge about syntact i c  connect ions betweenthe words occur r ing  in the text .
The isomorphismbetween syntax and semantics is accounted in to  al im i ted  set  of  formal mapping ru les  and cond i t ions .P repos i t iona l  phrase attachment,  appos i t ion ,  deter -minat ion  of  con junct ion 's  scope and mod i f i ca t ion  ofa NP through o ther  NPs are dea l t  in  a sa t i s fac toryway both from a syntact i ca l  and from a semant ica lpo in t  of v iew.
Other complex l ingu is t i c  phenomena(as anaphora, quant i f i ca t ion  and e l l ips i s )  requ i resa more extens ive  use of  heur i s t i cs .
The fu ture  workw i l l  concentrate on these specific aspects in orderto check the adequacy of the hypothesis of iso-morphism between syntactic and semantic structuresto larger fragments of the I ta l ian  language.REFERENCES\[Bayer 85\] Bayer, S. ,  Joseph, L .
,  Ka \ ] i sh ,  C.,Grammatical Re la t ions  as The Basis fo r  NL Pars ingand Text Understanding.
Proc.
9th I JCAI,  LosAngeles, 1985, pp.
?98-?90.\[Birnbaum 81\] Birnbaum, L. and Se l f r idge ,  M.,Conceptual Ana lys i s  fo r  Language.
in Schank, R.C.and Riesbeck, C.K.
,  (eds) ,  Ins ide  ComputersUnderstanding.
Lawrence Erlbaum Ass.
,  1981.\ [B loomf ie ld  35\] B loomf ie ld ,  Leonard, Language,A l len  & Unwin, London 1935.\ [F rederk ing  85\] F rederk ing ,  R.E.
,  Syntax andSemantics in NL Parsers.
Technical  Report 133,Carneg ie -Mel lon ,  Dept.
of  Computer Science, May1985.\ [H i rs t  84\] H i rs t ,  G. J .
,  Semantic In terpreta t ionAgainst Ambigu i ty .
Brown Un ivers i ty ,  Ph.D.,  1984\[Lesmo 85\] Lesmo, L. and Torasso, P. Weighted,In teract ion  of  Syntax and Semantics in NL Ana lys i s .Pro?.
9th I JCAI,  Los Angeles,  1985, ?72-?
?8.\ [ Ly t inen  85\] Ly t inen ,  S .L .
,  In tegrat ing  Syntaxand Semant ics .
,  Proc.
Theoret i ca l  andMethodo log ica l  Issues in MT fo r  NLs, Hami l ton,1985, 167-178.\ [Mi l ler  85\] Mi l ler ,  J., Semantics and Syntax,Cambridge Univ.
Press, Cambridge (U.K.), 1985.\[Stock 86\] Stock, 0., Dynamic Unif ication inLexical ly Based Parsing., Proc.
?th ECAI, Brighton,1986, 212-221.\[Sowa 84\] Sowa, J .
F .
,  Conceptual S t ruc tures .Addison Wesley, 1984.\[Woods ?2\] Woods, W.A., .An Exper imental  Pars ingSystem for  T rans i t ion  Network Grammars.
TechnicalReport 2362, Bo l t  Beranek and Newman Inc .
,  1972.282CONCEPTS CANONICAL GRAPHS TYPE HIERARCHY( ~ "  ~' SEN. CONTEXTEAT H E ~ " ' ~~.Co, J)'-d POOO 1 .." "~,~ I I .~.s'PORK FORK4 INANIN-OBJSEN.
CONTEXT) ~CN2,1  22 \SURFACESEMANTICLEVELLEXICAL JOHN EATS CHICKEN FORK LEVELW_ IJ~ I~  I~  I~ SYNTACTICI~ ~ I ~ ~ T  \ ]~ LEVELCOMPLEMENTI )  JOHN I) EATS I) ACHICKEN I) WITH A FORK2) A CHICKENWITH A FORKFig.1 -The  canonica\] graph of  "eat"  and that  of" fo rk" .F ig.2 - Mapping aspects fo r  the sentence "John eatsa chicken w i th  the fo rk" .
The syntact i c  le -vel represents the graph of BCs that  con-s t i tu tes  the two syntact i c  s t ruc tures  ofthe sentence.
At the semantic level  dottedarrows ( ~ )  stand fo r  a jo in  that  issupported by syntax.
The double arrows(C >)  instead represents a jo in  that  isnot supposed by syntax.
In fact  a mappingru le  requ i res  that  the semantic re la t ion"agent"  must be supported by the grammati-cal re la t ion  "sub jec t "  ( in  an ac t ive  sen-tence) and not by the "ob jec t "  re la t ion ,283
