Nonconcatenative Finite-State MorphologybyMartin KayXerox Palo Alto Research Center3333 Coyote Hill RoadPalo Alto.
CA 94304.
USAIn the last few years, so called finite.statemorphology, in general, and two-levelmorphology in particular, have become widelyaccepted as paradigms for the computationaltreatment of morphology.
Finite-statemorphology appeals to the notion of a finite-statetransducer, which is simply a classicalfinite-state automaton whose transitions arelabeled with pairs, rather than with singlesymbols.
The automaton operates on a pair oftapes and advances over a given transition if thecurrent symbols on the tapes match the pair onthe transition.
One member of the pair ofsymbols on a transition can be the designatednull symbol, which we will write ~.
When thisappears, the corresponding tape is not examined,and it does not advance as the machine moves tothe next state.Finite-state morphology originally arose outof a desire to provide ways of analyzing surfaceforms using grammars expressed in terms ofsystems of ordered rewriting rules.
Kaplan andKay (in preparation} observed, that finite-statetransducers could be used to mimic a large classof rewriting rules, possibly including all thoserequired for phonology.
The importance ,ff thiscame from two considerations.
First, transducersare indifferent as to the direction in which theyare applied.
In other words, they can be used withequal facility to translate between tapes, in eitherdirection, to accept or reject pairs of tapes, or togenerate pairs of tapes.
Second, a pair oftransducers with one tape in common isequivalent to a single transducer operating on theremaining pair of tapes.
A simple algorithmexists for constructing the transition diagram fi)rthis composite machine given those of the origi-hal pair.
By repeated application of thisalgorithm, it is therefore possible to reduce acascade of transducers, each linked to the next bya common tape, to a .~ingie transducer whichaccepts exactly the same pair of tapes as wasaccepted by the original cascade as a whole.
Fromthese two facts together, it follows that anarbitrary ordered set of rewriting rules can bemodeled by a finite-state transducer which can beautomatically constructed from them and whichserves as well for analyzing surface forms as forgenerating them from underlying lexical strings.A transducer obtained from an ordered set ofrules in the way just outlined is a two level devicein the sense that it mediates directly betweenlexical and surface forms without everconstructing the intermediate forms that wouldarise in the course of applying the original rulesone by one.
The term two-level morphology,however, is used in a more restricted way, toapply to a system in which no intermediate formsare posited, even in the original grammaticalformalism.
The writer of a grammar using atwo-level formalism never needs to think in termsof any representations other than the lexical andthe surface ones.
What he does is to specify, usingone formalism or another, a set of transducers,each of which mediates directly between thesefol'ms and each of which restricts the allowablepairs of strings in some way.
The pairs that thesystem as a whole accepts are those are those that~lre rejected by none of the componenttransducers, modulo certain assumptions aboutthe precise way in which they interact, whosedetails need not concern us.
Once again, there isa formal procedure that can be used to combinethe set of transducers that make up such a system2into a single automaton with the same overallbehavior, so that the final result isindistinguishable form that obtained from a set ofordered rules.
However it is an advantage ofparallel machines that they can be used with verylittle loss of efficiency without combining them inthis way.While it is not the purpose of this paper toexplore the formal properties of finite-statetransducers, a brief excursion may be in order atthis point to forestall a possible objection to theclaim that a parallel configuration of transducerscan be combined into a single one.
On the face ofit, this cannot generally be so because there isgenerally no finite-state transducer that willaccept the intersection of the sets of tape pairsaccepted by an arbitrary set of transducers.
It is,for example, easy to design a transducer that willmap a string of x's onto the same number of y'sfollowed by an arbitrary number of z's.
It isequally easy to design one that maps a string ofx's onto the same number of z's preceded by anarbitrary number of x's.
The intersection ofthesetwo sets contains just those pairs with somenumber of x's on one tape, and that same numberof y's followed by the same number of z's on theother tape.
The set of second tapes thereforecontains a context-free language which it isclearly not within the power of any finite-statedevice to generate.Koskenniemi overcame this objection in hisoriginal work by adopting the view that all thetransducers in the parallel configuration shouldshare the same pair or read-write heads.
Theeffect of this is to insist that they not only acceptthe same pairs of tapes, but that they agree on theparticular sequence of symbol pairs that must berehearsed in the course of accepting each of thetn.Kaplan has been able to put a more formalconstruction on this in the following way l,et theempty symbols appearing in the pairs labelingany transition in the transducers be replaced bysome ordinary symbol not otherwise part of thealphabet.
The new set of transducers derived inthis way clearly do not accept he same pairs oftapes as the original ones did, but there is analgorithm for constructing a single finite-statetransducer that will accept he intersection of thepairs they all accept.
Suppose, now, that thisconfiguration of parallel transducers is put inseries with two other standard transducers, onewhich carries the real empty symbol onto itssurrogate, and everything else onto itself, andanother transducer that carries the surrogateonto the real empty symbol, then the resultingconfiguration accepts just the desired set oflanguages, all of which are also acceptable bysingle transducers that can be algorithmicalLyderived form the originals.It may well appear that the systems we havebeen considering properly belong to finite-statephonology or graphology, and not to morphology,properly construed.
Computational linguistshave indeed often been guilty of somecarelessness in their use of this terminology.
Butit is not hard to see how it could have arisen.
Thefirst step in any process that treats natural text isto recognize the words it contains, and thisgenerally involves analyzing each of them interms of a constituent set of formatives of somekind.
Most important among the difficulties thatthis entails are those having to do with thedifferent shapes that formatives assume indifferent environments.
In other words, theprincipal difficulties of morphological analysisare in fact phonological or graphological.
Theinventor of two-level morphology, KimmoKoskenniemi, is fact provided a finite-stateaccount not just of morphophonemics (ormorphographemics), but also of morphotactics.He took it that the allowable set of words simplyconstituted a regular set of morheme sequences.This is probably the more controversial part of hisproposal, but it is also the less technicallyelaborate, and thereh~re the one that hasattracted less attention.
As a result, the term"two-Level morphology" has come to be commonlyaccepted as applying to any system of wordrecognition that involves two-level, finite-state,phonology or graphotogy.
The approach tononconcatenative morphology to be outlined inthis paper will provide a more unified treatmentof morphophonemics and morphotactics than hasbeen usual3I shall attempt to show how a two-levelaccount might be given of nonconcatenativemorphological phenomena, particularly thoseexhibited in the Semitic languages.
Theapproach I intend to take is inspired, not only byfinite-state morphology, broadly construed, butequally by autosegmental phonology as proposedby Goldsmith (1979) and the autosegmentalmorphology of McCarthy 11979) All the datathat I have used in this work is taken fromMcCarthy (1979) and my debt to him will be clearthroughout.forms that can be constructed on the basis of eachof the stems shown.
However, there is everyreason to suppose that, though longer and greatlymore complex in detail, that enterprise would notrequire essentially different mechanisms fromthe ones I shall describe.The overall principles on which the materialin Table I is organized are clear from a fairlycursory inspection.
Each form contains theletters "ktb" somewhere in it.
This is the root ofthe verb meaning "write".
By replacing thesethree letters with other appropriately chosenPerfectiveActiveI katabII kattabIII kaatabIV ?aktabV takattabVI takaatabVII nkatabVIII ktatabIX ktababX staktabXI ktaababXII ktawtabXIII ktawwabXIV ktanbabXV ktanbayPassivekutibkuttibkuutib?uktibtukuttibtukuutibnkutibktutibstuktibImperfective ParticipleActive Passive Activeaktub uktab kaatibukattib ukattab mukattibukaatib ukaatab mukaatibu?aktib u?aktab mu?aktibatakattab utakattab mutkattibatakaatab utakaatab mutakaatibankatib unkatab minkatibaktatib uktatab muktatibaktabib muktabibastaktib ustaktab mustaktibaktaabib muktaabibaktawtib muktawtibaktawwib muktawwibaktanbib muktanbibaktanbiy muktanbiyPassivemaktuubmukattabmukaatabmu?aktabmutakattabmutakaatabmunkatabmuktatabmustaktabTableI take it as my task to describe how themembers of a paradigm like the one in 'Fable lmight be generated and recognized effectivelyand efficiently, and in such a way as to captureand profit from the principal linguisticgeneralizations inherent in it.
Now this is aslightly artificial problem because the f,~rmsgiven in 'Fable I are not in fact words, but ,relyverb stems.
To get the verb forms that would befound in Arabic text, we should have to expandthe table very considerably to show the inflectedIsequences of three consonants, we would obtaincorresponding paradigms for other roots.
Withsome notable exceptions, the columns of the tablecontain stems with the same sequence of vowels.Each of these is known as a vocalism and, as theheadings of the columns how, these can serve todistinguish perfect from imperfective, active frompassive, and the like.
Each row of the table ischaracterized by a particular pattern according towhich the vowels and consonants alternate.
Inother words, it is characteristic of a given row4that the vowel in a particular position is long orshort, or that a consonant is simple or geminate,or that material in one syllable is repeated in thefollowing one.
McCarthy refers to each of thesepatterns as a prosodic template, a term which Ishall take over.
Each of them adds a particularsemantic omponent to the basic verb, making itreflexive, causative, or whatever.
Our problem,will therefore involve designing an abstractdevice capable of combining components of thesethree kinds into a single sequence.
Our solutionwill take the form of a set of one or morefinite-state transducers that will work in parallellike those of Koskenniemmi(1983), but on fourtapes rather than just two.There will not be space, in this paper, to givea detailed account, even of all the material inTable I, not to mention problems that would ariseif we were to consider the full range of Arabicroots.
What I do hope to do, however, is toestablish a theoretical framework within whichsolutions to all of these problems could bedeveloped.We must presumably expect he transducerswe construct o account for the Arabic data tohave transition functions from states andquadruples of symbols to states.
In other words,we will be able to describe them with transitiondiagrams whose edges are labeled with a vector offour symbols.
When the automaton moves fromone state to another, each of the four tapes willadvance over the symbol corresponding to it onthe transition that sanctions the move.I shall allow myself some extensions to thisbasic scheme which will enhance the perspicuityand economy of the formalism without changingits essential character.
In particular, theseextensions will leave us clearly within thedomain of finite-state devices.
The extensionshave to do with separating the process of readingor writing a symbol on a tape, from advancing thetape to the next position.
The quadruples thatlabel the transitions in the transducers we shallbe constructing will be elements each consistingof two parts, a symbol, and an instructionconcerning the movement of the tape.
l shall usethe following notation for this.
A unadornedsymbol will be read in the traditional way,namely, as requiring the tape on which thatsymbol appears to move to the next position assoon as it has been read or written.
If the symbolis shown in brackets, on the other hand, the tapewill not advance, and the quadruple specifyingthe next following transition will thereforeclearly have to be one that specifies the samesymbol for that tape, since the symbol will still beunder the read-write head when that transition istaken.
With this convention, it is natural todispense with the e symbol in favor of thenotation "\[l", that is, an unspecified symbol overwhich the corresponding tape does not advance.A symbol can also be written in braces, in whichcase the corresponding tape will move if thesymbol under the read-write head is the last oneon the tape.
This is intended to capture thenotion of spreading, from autosegmentalmorphology, that is, the principal according towhich the last item in a string may be reusedwhen required to fill several positions.A particular set of quadruples, or frames,made up of symbols, with or without brackets orbraces, will constitute the alphabet of theautomata, and the "useful" alphabet must be thesame for all the automata because none of themcan move from one state to another unless theothers make an exactly parallel transition.
Notsurprisingly, a considerable amount ofinformation about the language is contained justin the constitution of the alphabet.
Indeed, asingle machine with one state which alltransitions both leave and enter will generate anontrivial subset of the material in Table I. Anexample of the steps involved in generating aform that depends only minimally on informationembodied in a transducer is given in table II.The eight step are labeled (a) - (h).
For eachone, a box is shown enclosing the symbolscurrently under the read-write heads.
The tapesmove under the heads from the right and thencontinue to the left.
No symbols are shown to theright on the bottom tape, because we areassuming that the operation chronicled in thesediagrams is one in which a surface form isbeing5(a)(b)(c)(d)Vak tV Ca iakV Cakk tV C Caa k tk t bC C Vak t atVibViCibC VbV CC VV CV CV CCV C\[\]V\[alakC\[\]ktC\[\]t\[\]Vaa(e)(f)(g)(h)VaVaV Ca kC Ck tk t bV C C V Ca ia k t a bk t bC C V C Va ik t a b ik t bC V C V Ca it a b ik t bV C V Ca ia b i bV CC(b}C\[\]b\[\]ViibC\[\]bTable IIgenerated.
The bottom tape- - the  one containingthe surface form-- is  therefore being written andit is for this reason that nothing appears to theright.
The other three tapes, in the order shown,contain the root, the prosodic template, and thevocalism.
To the right of the tapes, the frame isshown which sanctions the move that will bemade to advance from that position to the next.No such frame is given for the last configurationfor the obvious reason that this represents theend of the process.The move from (a) to (b) is sanctioned by aframe in which the root consonant is ignored.There must be a "V" on the template tape and an"a" in the current  position of the vocalism.However, the vocalism tape will not move whenthe automata move to their  next states.
Finally,there will be an "a" on the tape containing thesurface form.
\[n summary,  given that the pros()-dic template calls for a vowel, the next vowel inthe vocalism has been copied to the surface.Nondeterminist ical ly,  the device predicts thatthis same contr ibution from the vocalism will alsobe required to fill a later position.The move from {b) to (c) is sanct ioned by aframe in which the vocalism is ignored.
Thetemplate requires a consonant and the frameaccordingly specifies the same consonant on boththe root and the surface tapes, advancing both ofthem.
A parallel move, differing only in theidentity of the consonant, is made from (c) to (d).The move from (d) to (e) is s imilar to that  from (a)to (b) except that, this time, the vocalism tapedoes advance.
The nondeterminist ic  predictionthat is being made in this case is that  there willbe no further .~lots for the "a" to fill.
Just  what itis that  makes this the "right" move is a matter  towhich we shall return.
The move from (e) to (f)differs from the previous two moves over rootconsonants in that the "b" is being "spread".
Inother words, the root tape does not move, and thispossibility is allowed on the specific grounds thatit is the last symbol on the tape.
Once again, theautomata are making a nondeterminist icdecision, this t ime that there will be anotherconsonant called for later by the prosodictemplate and which it will be possible to fill onlyif this last entry on the root tape does not moveaway.
The moves from (f) to (g) and from (g) to Ih)are like those from (d) to (e) and (b) to (c)respectively.Just  what is the force of the remark,  madefrom time to time in this commentary,  that  acertain move is made nondeterministically?These are all s ituations in which some other movewas, in fact, open to the transducers but wherethe one displayed was carefully chosen to be theone that would lead to the correct result.
Supposethat, instead of leaving the root tape stat ionary inthe move from (e) to (f), it had been allowed toadvance using a frame parallel to the one used inthe moves from (b) to (c) and (c) to (d), a framewhich it is only reasonable to assume must existfor all consonants, including "b".
The move from(f) to (g) could still have been made in the sameway, but this would have led to a configuration inwhich a consonant was required by the prosodictemplate, but none was available from the root.
Aderivation cannot be allowed to count as completeuntil all tapes are exhausted, so the automatawould have reached an impasse.
We mustassume that, when this happens, the automataare able to return to a preceding situation inwhich an essential ly arbitrar i ly choice was made,and try a different alternative.
Indeed, we mustassume that a general backtracking strategy is ineffect, which ensures that all allowable ~equencesof choices are explored.Now consider the nondeterminist ic choicethat was made in the move from {a) to (b), ascontrasted with the one made under essential lyindistinguishable circumstances from (d) to le).
Ifthe vocalism tape had advanced in the first ofthese situations, but not in the second, we shouldpresumably have been able to generate theputative form "aktibib", which does not exist.This can be excluded only if we assume that  thereis a transducer that  disallows this sequence ofevents, or if the frames avai lable for "i" are notthe same as those for "a".
We are, in fact, makingthe latter assumption, on the grounds that thevowel "i" occurs only in the final position ofArabic verb stems.Consider, now, the forms in rows II and V oftable I.
In each of these, the middle consonant ofthe root is geminate in the surface.
This is not aresult of spreading as we have described it,because spreading only occurs with the lastconsonant of a root.
If the prosodic template forrow II is "CVCCVC", how is that  we do not getforms like "katbab" and "kutbib" beside the onesshown?
This is a problem that is overcome inMcCarthy's autosegmental  account only atconsiderable cost.
Indeed, is is a deficiency of thatformalism that the only mechanisms avai lable init to account for geminat ion are as complex asthey are, given how common the phenomenon is.Within the f ramework proposed here,geminat ion is provided for in a very natura l  way.Consider the following pair of frame schemata, inwhich c is and arb i t rary consonant:c \[clC G\[I \[1c cThe first of these is the one that was used for theconsonants in the above example except in thesituation for the first occurrence of"b" ,  where iswas being spread into the final two consonantalpositions of the form.
The second frame differsfrom this is two respects.
First, the prosodictemplate contains the hitherto unused symbol"G".
for "geminate", and second, the root tape isnot advanced.
Suppose, now, that the theprosodic template for forms like "kattab" is not"CVCCVC", but "CVGCVC".
It will be possible todischarge the "G" only if the root template doesnot advance, so that the following "C" in thetemplate can only cause the same consonant to beinserted into the word a second time.
Thesequence "GC" in a prosodic template is thereforean idiom for consonant gemination.Needless to say, McCarthy's work, on whichthis paper is based, is not interesting simply forthe fact that he is able to achieve an adequatedescription of the data in table I, but also for theclaims he makes about the way that accountextends to a wider class of phenomena, thusachieving a measure of explanatory power.
Inparticular, he claims that it extends to roots withtwo and four consonants.
Consider, in particular,the following sets of forms:ktanbab dhanrajkattab dahrajtakattab tadahrajThose in the second column are based on the root/dhrj/.
In the first column are the correspondingforms of /ktb/.
The similarity in the sets ofcorresponding forms is unmistakable.
Theyexhibit the same patterns of consonants andvowels, differing only in that, whereas someconsonant appears twice in the forms in columnone, the consonantal slots are all occupied bydifferent segments in the forms on the right.
Forthese purposes, the "n" of the first pair of formsshould be ignored since it is contributed by theprosodic template, and not by the root.consonantal s ot in the prosodic template only inthe case of the shorter form.
The structure of thesecond and third forms is equally straighforward,but it is less easy to see how our machinery couldaccount for them.
Once again, the template callsfor four root consonants and, where only three areprovided, one must do double duty.
But in thiscase, the effect is achieved through geminationrather than spreading so that the geminationmechanism just outlined is presumably in play.That mechanism makes no provision forgemination to be invoked only when needed to fillslots in the prosodic template that wouldotherwise remain empty.
If the mechanism wereas just described, and the triliteral forms were"CVGCVC" and "tVCVGCVC" respectively, thenthe quadriliteral forms would have to begenerated on a different base.It is in cases like this, of which there in factmany, that the finite-state transducers play asubstantive role.
What is required in this case isa transducer that allows the root tape to remainstationary while the template tape moves over a"G", provided no spreading will be allowed tooccur later to fill consonantal slots that wouldnot geminatespreadno spreadl"ig.
1Given a triliteral and a quadriliteral root, otherwise be unclaimed.
If extra consonants arethe first pair are exactly as one would expect--the required, then the first priority must be to letfinal root consonant is spread to fill the final them occupy the slots marked with a "G" in thetemplate.
Fig.
1 shows a schema for thetransition diagram of a transducer that has thiseffect.
I call it a "schema" only because ach ofthe edges shown does duty for a number of actualtransitions.
The machine begins in the "start"state and continues to return there so long as noframe is encountered involving a "G" on thetemplate tape.
A "G" transition causes anondeterministic choice.
If the root tape moves atthe same time as the "G" is scanned, thetransducer goes into its "no-spread" state, towhich it continues to return so long as every moveover a "C" on the prosodic tape is accompanied bya move over a consonant on the root tape.
Inother words, it must be possible to complete theprocess without spreading consonants.
The otheralternative is that the transducer should enterthe "geminate" state over a transition over a "G"in the template with the root tape remainingstationary.
The transitions at the "geminate"state allow both spreading and nonspreadingtransitions.
In summary, spreading can occuronly if the transducer never leaves the "start"state and there is no "G" in the template, or thereis a "G" on the template which does not triggergemination.
A "G" can fail to trigger geminationonly when the root contains enough consonants ofill all the requirements hat the template makesfor them.One quadriliteral case remains to beaccounted for, namely the following:ktaabab dharjajAccording to the strategy just elaborated, weshould have expected the quadriliteral form tohave been "dhaaraj".
But, apparently this formcontains a slot that is used for vowel lengtheningwith triliteral roots, and as consonantal positionfor quadriliterals.
We must therefore presumablytake it that the prosodic template for this form issomething like "CCVXCVC" where "X" is asegment, but not specified as either w)calic orconsonantal.
This much is in line with theproposal that McCarthy himself makes Thequestion is, when should be filled by a vowel, andwhen by a consonant?
The data in Table I is, ofcourse, insufficient o answer question, but aplausible answer that strongly suggests itself isthat the "X" slot prefers a consonantal fillerexcept where that would result in gemination.
Ifthis is true, then it is another case where thenotion of gemination, though not actuallyexemplified in the form, plays a central role.Supposing that the analysis is correct, the nextquestion is, how is it to be implemented.
Themost appealing answer would be to make "X" theexact obverse of "G", when filled with aconsonant.
In other words, when a root consonantfills such a slot, the root tape must advance sothat the same consonant will no longer beavailable to fill the next position.
The possibilitythat the next root consonant would simply be arepetition of the current one would be excluded ifwe were to take over from autosegmentalphonology and morphology, some version of thObligatory Contour Principle (OCP) (Goldsmith,1979) which disallows repeated segments exceptin the prosodic template and in the surface string.McCarthy points out the roots l ike/smm/, whichappear to violate the OCP can invariably bereanalyzed as biliteral roots l ike/sm/and,  if thisis done, our analysis, like his, goes through.The OCP does seem likely to cause sometrouble when we come to treat one of the principalremaining problems, namely that of the forms inrow I of table \[.
It turns out that the vowel thatappears in the second syllable of these forms isnot provided by the vocalism, but by the root.
Thevowel that appears in the perfect is generallydifferent from the one that appears in theimperfect, and four different pairs are possible.The pair that is used with a given root is anidiosyncratic property of that root.
Onepossibility is, therefore, that we treat thetraditional triliterat roots as consisting notsimply of three consonants, but as threeconsonants with a vowel intervening between thesecond and third, for a total of four segments.This flies in the face of traditional wisdom.
It alsoruns counter to one of the motivating intuitions ofautosegmental phonology which would have itthat particular phonological features can berepresented on at most one \[exical tier, or tape.The intuition is that these tiers or tapes eachcontain a record or a particular kind ofarticulatory gesture; from the hearer's point ofview, it is as though they contained a record of thesignal received from a receptor that was attunedonly to certain features.
If we wish to maintainthis model, there are presumably twoalternatives open to us.
Both involve assumingthat roots are represented on at least two tapes inparallel, with the consonants eparate from thevowel.According to one alternative, the root vowelwould be written on the same tape as thevocalism; according to the other, it would be on atape of its own.
Unfortunately, neitheralternative makes for a particularly happysolution.
No problem arises from the proposalthat a given morpheme should, in general, berepresented on more than one lexical tape.However, the idea that the vocalic materialassociated with a root should appear on a specialtape, reserved for it alone, breaks the clean linesof the system as so far presented in two ways.First, it spearates material onto two tapes,specifically the new one and the vocalism, onpurely lexical grounds, having nothing to do withtheir phonetic or phonological constitution, andthis runs counter to the idea of tapes as records of 'activity on phonetically specialized receptors.
Itis also at least slightly troublesome in that thatnewly introduced tape fills no function except inthe generation of the first row of the table.Neither of these arguments is conclusive, andthey could diminish considerably in force as awider range of data was considered.Representing the vocalic contribution of theroot on the same tape as the vacalism would avoidboth of these objections, but would require thatvocalic contribution to be recorded either beforeor after the vocalism itself.
Since the root vowelaffects the latter part of the root, it seemsreasonable that it should be positioned to theright.
Notice, however, that this is the onlyinstance in which we have had to make anyassumptions about the relative ordering of themorphemes that contribute to a stem.
Onceagain, it may be possible to assemble furtherevidence reflecting on some such ordering, but ldo not see it in these data.It is only right that I should point out thedifficulty of accounting satisfactorily for thevocalic contribution of verbal roots.
It is onlyright that I should also point out that theautosegmental solution fares no better on thisscore, resorting, as it must, to rules that accessessentially non-phonological properties of themorphemes involved.
By insisting that what Ihave called the spelling of a morpheme should by,by definition, be its only contribution tophonological processes, !
have cut myself off fromany such deus ex machina.Linguists in general, and computationallinguists in particular, do well to employfinite-state devices wherever possible.
They aretheoretically appealing because they arecomputational weak and best understood from amathematical point of view.
They arecomputationally appealing because they make forsimple, elegant, and highly efficientimplementaions.
In this paper, !
hope I haveshown how they can be applied to a problem innonconcatenative morphology which seemsinitially to require heavier machinary.REFERENCESGoldsmith, J A.
(1979).
AutosegmentalPhonology.
New York; Garland Publishing Inc.Kay, M and R. M. Kaplan (in preparation}.Phonological Rules and Finite-State Transducers.Koskenniemi, K (1983).
Two-LevelMorphology: A General Computational Model \[brWord-Form Recognition and Production.Doctoral Dissertation, University of Helsinki.Leben, W (1973).
SuprasegmentalPhonology.
Doctoral Dissertation, MIT,Cambridge Massachussetts.McCarthy, J J.
(1979).
Formal problems inSemitic Phonology and Morpholog3,.
DoctoralDissertation, MIT, Cambridge Massachussetts.McCarthy, J J.
(1981).
"A Prosodic Tehory ofNonconcatenative Morphology".
LinguisticInquiry, 12.3.10
