ePars ing  into Discourse Object Descr ipt ionsLars AhrenbergDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceLink6ping UniversityS - 581 83 Link~pingABSTRACTThis paper reports work on the design of a naturallanguage interface with a limited dialogue capability.
It isargued that (i) The interpretation of the input ispreferably represented as a structure of Discourse ObjectDescriptions (DODs); (ii) The DODs must be determinedon the basis of different types of knowledge such asgrammatical knowledge, object type deirmitions andknowledge about existing discourse objects and theirdiscourse status; (iii) The different ypes of knowledge arestored separately but integrated in the interpretationprocess which is based on constraints.INTRODUCTIONThe LINLIN-project is concerned with the developmentof general-purpose natural language interfaces (NLIs) tocomputer software with special emphasis oncommunication i Swedish.
A useful general-purpose NLImust meet a var/ety of requirements, a number of whichconcern communicative ability.
The communicativeabilities of as NLI are necessarily restricted by thelimitations of existing techniques, but can also bepurposely restricted to enhance transparency.
It is notcertain that the linguistically more competent NLI is themost useful one, e.g.
if its behaviour appears idiosyncraticto the user.
In any case, the language of an NLI is alanguage designed (and is in that respect not a naturallanguage) so there are many questions to be answeredabout how it should be designed, both in terms of how itshould function as a vehicle of communication and in termsof internal representations and procedures.As for the first aspect we are conducting a series ofsimulations to fred out what communicative abilities anNLI should have (Dahlb~k&J~neson, 1986), butmeanwhile we are assuming that LINLIN should meet thefollowing demands: it should have a fair knowledge of thestructure of Swedish words, clauses and utterances, ansThis work is part of the project Analysis and Generation ofNatural-Lan~,ruage T xts supported by the National SwedishBoard of Technical Development.extendable lexicon, an extendable knowledge of objecttypes, an ability to cope with directives, questions andassertions as they relate to the current backgroundsystem(s) and a restricted ability to engage in a dialoguewith the user.The dialogue capabilities of LINLIN are primarilydesigned for the following purposes: (a) to enable the userto make explicit and implicit cross-references betweenutterances, e.g.
by using pronouns and ellipsis; (b) to allowthe user to build commands incrementally; (c) to ask theuser for clarifications and other information that thesystem might need, and (d) to provide help for the user.In this paper some consequences of these demands forthe representation and interaction of various types ofknowledge that the system needs are considered.
The mainideas are t~e following: (1) The content of user inputs ispreferably represented as a structure of Discourse ObjectDescriptions (DODs) which relate in various ways toobjects of the universe of discourse.
(2) Different types ofknowledge, including object type knowledge and knowledgeof the current state of the discourse must be used andintegrated in the construction of an interpretation.
(3) Toensure generality and in contrast to the entity-orientedparser of Hayes (1984), the grammatical knowledge is notexclusively tied to object type definitions but storedseparately.
(4) Knowledge about the discourse status ofobjects is also a kind of general knowledge that must bekept separate from object type definitions.
(5) In aconstraint-based parsing process the grammaticaldescriptions and the content descriptions can be built intandem, sometimes with the syntax in control andsometimes with the object knowledge in control.
Thisallows us to diminish the role of the syntactic part of theparsing to recognition of significant structural patterns,using semantic and pragmatic knowledge for the resolutionof structural ambiguities such as PP-attachment.The first background system that LINLIN will work onis a group calendar.
As the pilot Version of LINLIN is onlyin its initial stages my arguments will mainly betheoretical, while the practicality of the proposed ideasremains to be proven.140TH\]~ FRA.M~WORKDiscourse ObjectsVirtually anything that can be perceived as and talkedabout as an individual may serve as a discourse object.Thus, objects and facts represented in a database as wellas the user's inputs, the commands to be executed and theresponses of the system are all (potential) discourseobjects.
Notions such as discourse lements (Sidner, 1984)and discourse ntities (Webber, 1984) have been employedto denote the entities that are =specified" or evoked by theconstituents of a discourse, they and their relations thenconstituting the discourse model of a speaker.
Hayes (1984)refers to the objects, events, commands, states (and so on)that an interface system needs to recognize collectively as"entitities ~.
In the same vein I ta~e the notion of adiscourse object to apply in the most general sense; theuniverse of discourse is in principle just a collection ofdiscourse objects.
A relation between discourse objects isalso a discourse object although it may also, oralternatively, be attributed to one or more of itsconstituents as part of their descriptions.All discourse objects are instances of one or more objecttypes.
Thus, we allow a discourse object to be viewed fromcomplementary perspectives.
For instance, from agrammatical perspective an input may be typed as adeclarative sentence, whereas from an interactionalperspective it may be typed as an answer and both of thesecategorizations may contribute information about itscontent.Discourse Object  Descr ipt ionsThe information that the system has of a particulardiscourse object is encoded in a discourse objectdescr ipt ion,  or DOD, for short.
As discourse objectsgenerally will have some information attached to them, wemay represent a discourse object as a pair of s unique labeland a DOD.DODs have the format of structures of attribute-valuepairs where the attributes represent informationaldimensions, i.e.
ways of predicating something of theobject, and the values encode whatever information isavailable for that dimension.
An attribute of specialimportance is Ins tance-Of  which relates a discourseobject to a type.
Other attributes are generally inheritedfrom an object type definition which occurs as part of thedescription of an object type.
An object type definition canbe viewed as a skeleton for a typical instance of that typeregistering the defining attributes as well as restrictions ontheir values.
For events, such as meetings or bookings, theobject type definition is basically similar to a ca~e frame(see figure 1).
The object type definitions thus encode thesystem's semantic knowledge, whereas the universe ofdiscourse ncodes its world knowledge.BLabel:  'MeetingTypica l - instance:ieet ing - type :  ~sa 'Meeting\] -~art lc \ ]pants:  ~.nstance-ofi 'Set\] i\ [Typical -member:  'Person\]\[Thne:  ~ustance-of:  'Time-interval\]\[S tar t - t ime:  ~J~stance-of'.
Time-of-day\] |nd- t ime:  ~nstance-0f:  'Time-of-day\] _~Figure 1" Part of an object type definition.Discourse s tatusWe do not talk about all discourse objects at once.
Atany particular moment of an interaction some discourseobjects are more salient than others because they are beingtalked about.
As is well known, the way an object has beentalked about at a certain point has consequences for how itcan be talked about in the sequel (of.
e.g.
Sidner, Webberop.
cit.).
It also has consequences for how other objectswhich are related to those salient ones can be talked about.On the other hand there are discourse objects that have aparticular status in virtue of being parts of the context ofutterance.
Such objects are the speaker, the addressee, thetime of utterance and the place of utterance.
A third kindof property that distinguishes discourse objects from oneanother concerns whether an object is part of the sharedknowledge of the actors of the interaction or not.I will treat all distinctions of this kind as distinctions ofdiscourse status.
Objects of the first type will be referredto as topical and those of the second type as eentra/.
Therecan be overlap between these categories, but generally theyare different.
Expressions uch as my, yesterday s here pickout central discourse objects or objects with specificrelations to central objects, whereas expressions uch ashis, the day be/ore, in front pick out topical objects orobjects with specific relations to topical objects.
Objects ofthe universe of discourse which are neither topical norcentral will be referred to as knotvn.To keep track of changes in discourse status aconversational score, or score-board, is used (Lewis, 1979).One purpose of the score-board is to register topical andcentral discourse objects at any particular point of theinteraction.
This information must be updated for everynew utterance.
How this should be done is a difficultproblem that I will not address here.
However, in this area141we prefer simple algorithn~ to high coverage as we are notaiming for a complete solution to the problem of anaphoricreference, but for something which can be useful inman-machine dialogue.The score-board has another important duty as well,viz.
to register expectations on user input.
Forillustrations, ee below.Parsing and Interpretat ionThe entity-oriented parsing of Hayes (1984) is proposedas a suitable technique for interfaces with restricteddomains.
The characteristic feature of this technique is theclose coupling between semantic and syntactic knowledge.Each entity definition is coupled with a~SuffsceRepresentation" of that entity, i.e.
informationabout how such entities are expressed in linguisticutterances.
Thus, each object type defines its ownsub-language as it were.
This has several advantages, e.g.,it allows for independent recognition of entities, it makespossible the interpretation f ill-formed input and it canalso be supported theoretically: the language we use fortalking about people is not the same as the language weuse for talking about times or locations (or for performingvarious types of speech acts) and this difference is notmerely a difference in vocabulary but also a difference insyntax.
However, Hayes makes full use of theentity-language correspondences only in top-downrecognition, i.e.
in the direction from object types toinstances.
There is no attempt at expressing syntacticknowledge at an appropriate level of generality; everysingle entity type has its own SurfaceRepresentation ssyntactic generalizations that hold across entities areneither used nor expressed.Tomita&Carbonell (1986), using entity-oriented parsingin the context of multi-lingual machine-translation f rmultiple restricted omains, propose to capture syntacticgeneralities by means of separate LFG-style grammars forthe different languages.
The grammars are kept separatefrom the entity definitions (and the dictionaries) atdevelopment time, but are integrated in one large grammarat run-time.
This grammar, the rules of which are phrasestructure rules augmented with LISP-programs for testsand actions, can then be parsed by a suitable algorithm foraugmented context-free languages.This method presupposes that the knowledge bases thatare integrated don't change in the course of processing.
AnNLI with dialogue capabilities must not only handlesyntactic and semantic knowledge, however, but alsoknowledge of the universe of discourse which changes withevery new utterance, so a different method must be used.Such a parser/interpreter should be able to access thedifferent knowledge bases at run-time as illustrated infigure 2.PsA-serInter-preterLexicon l 'o- o ogy lSyntax ~-~InputScoreboardUniverse ofdiscourseObject-typeknowledgeI~ rammatical Description 1 ontent Description JFigure 2: Knowledge bases for the parser.The output of the parser is a DOD for the inpututterance, which contains information both about itssyntactic structure and its content.
The grammaticaldescription (GD) is separated from the content description(CD) in accordance with the view that they result asevaluations of the utterance from two different, butcomplementary, perspectives.The content description is basically a structure ofDODs.
Thus, the same representation language can beused for discourse objects, object type definitions andcontent descriptions.
Lexical entries as well as rules of thegrammar are associated with descriptors which I expresshere as schemata in an LFG-style formalism.
Theconstruction of the content description for an input will bean incremental process, as far as possible based onunification.
However, particularly in the non-syntactic partof the construction other, more complex operations willhave to be used.The content description can best be viewed as acontextuaiized semantic representation.
It is partiallydetermined by the information supplied in the utterance,but is enriched in the interpretation process by the use ofthe other knowledge sources.
The information in theconstituent DODs include (i) object type and otherproperties of the corresponding discourse object; (ii) thediscourse status of the object, and (ill) information aboutidentity.142Knowledge  of the universe of discourseExpectat ions  - Initial hypotheses about the contentdescription of an input may come from two sources.
It maycome from expectations about what is to follow or, in theabsence of specific expectations, from the grammatical (andlexical) information found in the input.
Utterance types arenot identified with command types as there is nbone-to-one correspondence b tween inputs and commandsto the background system.
Instead, inputs are regarded asmessages which are classified in terms of generaliUocutionary categories uch as assertions, questions anddirectives.
However, many utterances will give whole orpartial specifications of a command to be executed, whichmeans that they are analysed as having that command astheir topic, i.e.
as (one of) the discourse object(s) that theinteraction currently is about, possibly having somespecific part or aspect of it as an immediate topic.As an example, consider the short exchange below.
Thecontent description of (1) is, in abbreviated form, (3).
1(1) U: Book a meeting with Jim Smith on Monday.
(2) S: At what time?
(3)DInstance-of:  'DirectiveAgent :  USERRecip ient:  SYSTEMAct ion:Instance-of:  .
'BookingAgent :  SYSTEMObject:F lustance-of :  'Meeting\ [Par t i c ipants :  ( USER, J.S ) \ [ I_ LT ime:  \[Week-day: Monday\]_~ _As a result of this interpretation the system introducestwo new discourse objects (apart from the utterance itself):(i) a booking to be executed on the background system,and (ii) a meeting to be booked.
They are labelled, say B1and M1, and supplied with their descriptions.
Moreover,both B1 and M1 are assigned topical status.
The system isable to recognize information that it lacks for booking ameeting by comparing the information it has with adefinition for a booking command.
Having done this it maytake the initiative and ask the user to supply thatinformation, by outputting (2) above.
In this case the nextinput from the user will be met with definite expectations,1 Values in capital etters are object labels obtained by specialobject modules.
The other descriptors tem from the lexicon andthe grammar (see below).viz.
that it will be an answer relating to a topic such as<M1 Start-t lme>.
Such expectations are registered on thescore-board.
They have effects not only on the contentdescription of the next utterance, but also for the way it isparsed, as we may invoke an appropriate rule top-down, inthis case a rule for the structure of a time-of-day, to seewhether the expectations are met.Another case where expectations are necessary forsolving an interpretation problem is with identifications ofthe type (4).
The form of this utterance reveals it as somesort of assertion, but there is no way of telling from thewords alone what the topic is.
If it occurs at the beginningof an interaction, however, it should most likely be takenas information about who the user is.
In this case theexpectations don't arise from a previous utterance, butfrom general knowledge about how interactions begin.Knowledge about interactions is stored in the objecttype definition for interactions.
This definition basicallyprovides a grammar of constraints on possible interactions.The field in the score-board that registers expectations oninput is maintained by a processor that has access to theinteraction grammar.
(4) It is Lars.
(5) It is dry.Topica l  objects - The constituent DODs of a contentdescription must include information about which discourseobject the DOD describes.
Information about identity isoften needed for disambiguation, e.g.
to make theappropriate reading of a polysemous word.
This mayrequire consulting both the score-board and object typedefinitions.
Thus, to interpret (5) in a system which allowsdry to apply to different kinds of objects, say wines andclimate, requires that we first identify the discourse objectaccessed by the subject (via the score-board topics field)and then use the definition associated with its object typeto see in what way it can be specified as dry.As a second example consider the case ofPP-attachment.
Wilks et al (1985) argue (convincingly tomy mind) that syntax generally fails to discriminatebetween alternative attachments.
Instead they claim thatcorrect interpretations can be made by a preferentialapproach on the basis of semantic information associatedwith the relevant verbs, nouns and prepositions.However, preferences based on general semanticevaluations are not sufficient either.
Our knowledge of theactual discourse plays an important role.
Consider (6),which taken in isolation is ambiguous ince both meetingsand cancellations are objects that ~happen ~ at definitetimes and therefore may be specified for time.
Apreferential approach must apply some ordering143mechanism to handle a case like this.
In the strategyemployed by Wilks et al the first attachment tried is tothe nearest element o the left which has a preference forthe content of the PP.
In this case it will succeed(assuming that meetings have a preference for temporalPPs).
There is an interpretation of (6) which is similar to(71, however.
This interpretation is the appropriate one ifwe consider (6) in a discourse where the question (8) ha~been asked.
It will also be favoured in a discourse for whichthere is a discourse object identifiable as 'the meeting' butno discourse object identifiable as 'the meeting onMonday'.
This would be the case if there is only onetopical meeting, whereas the latter expression isappropriate in a context where there is a set of meetings ofthe same discourse status of which only one is on Monday.
(6) You cancelled the meeting on Monday.
(7) You cancelled it on Monday.
(8) When did I cancel the meeting?Also, the preference approach is insensitive to otherglobal properties of the utterance.
For instance, while itmay be allowed to ask for information about the time ofexecution of a command, as in (81, and hence possible forthe system to inform about it, with either of (6) or (7), itmay be disallowed to request other executions thanimmediate ones, so that (91 and (10 / would benon-ambiguous a  regards attachment of the final PP.
(9) I want to cancel the meeting on Monday.
(I0) Cancel the meeting on Monday.The system can handle such cases by treating either alldirectives, or some subset of directives which includesbookings and cancellations, as objects that obligatorilyhave their temporal information determined by the time ofexecution.
Only after they have been executed should theirexecution times be available as discourse topics.We may also compare (10) to (11) and (12).
Whereas(I0) is ambiguous (in isolation) (11) non-ambiguouslymeans that the meeting is on Monday, whereas (12)non-ambiguously means that the cancellation should be2 performed on Monday.
(11 !
Cancel the one on Monday.
(12) Cancel it on Monday.The pronouns must also be contextually appropriate, ofcourse.
The difference between them coincides well withthe difference between the two possible interpretations of(10); (12) can be used if there is only one topical meeting2 Interestingly, Swedish is different on this point.
Avboka det p~mlmdag could mean either "Cancel it on Monday" or "Cancelthat (= the one) on Monday'.and (I1) can be used if there is a set of topical meetings(cf.
Webber (1984)).
However, the differences inPP-attachment between (11) and (12) can be statedalready in the syntax as one is categorized as an N thatallows for PP-complements, whereas /t is categorized as anN (or NP) that does not permit PP-complements.Syntax  and the  LexiconIt may be suggested that for an NLI the grammaticalstructure of an utterance has no intrinsic interest.However, most linguistic interactions involving humansseem to develop formal constraints over and above thoseneeded to differentiate between message types and there isno reason why this should not hold for NLIs as well.Although (13) is interpretable it is not formed according tostandard norms for English and it might not disturb usersif it is disallowed.
(13) On Monday a meeting with J im Smith book.The primary motivation for constructing the GD,however, is the close correspondence b tween grammaticalconstituents and elements of the CD.
The GD thus servesas an aid to interpretation.
Moreover, we need a syntacticlevel of representation to take care of strictly syntacticrestrictions on phenomena such as reflexivization andlong-distance dependencies.It must be noted though that the interest ingrammatical descriptions is not an interest in thestructural potential of constructions, but with the structureappropriate for the corresponding content description on aparticular occasion of use.
While the grammar taken inisolation may allow several different GDs of a given input,the GD for a particular utterance is constructed in parallelwith the CD using the other knowledge bases as well.As said above an LFG-style formalism for the linguisticpart of the description can be used, where the constraintson DODs that words and constructions are associated withcan be formulated in the same way as functionalconstraints in LFG.
3 The GD and the CD are constructedincrementally and in tandem using a chart-parser forrecognition of syntactic onstituents.To find the contextually appropriate interpretations andreduce the combinatorial explosion of alternative parses theparser is interacting with other processors that I call object3 Cf.
the use of situational schemata in Fenstad et al (1986) Inthe illustrations below I use no f-structure level at all.Functional information is instead incorporated at the c-structurelevel.
I do this here for the sake of brevity only and notheoretical c aims are being made.144modules.
Their purpose is to link DODs with discourseobjects and evaluate the information in DODs againstexisting expectations.
When a constituent is syntacticallycomplete (or potentially complete) control is given to anobject module which seeks to establish an object that isdescribed by the DOD derived by the syntactic parser.Such a scheme should be based on a theory about thi~correspondence between syntactic structure and discours~object relations.
The closer the correspondence the better itwould be, but we definitely do not have an isomorphiccorrespondence.
It seems, however, that thecorrespondences obey locality conditions of the kind thatcan be specified in the basic schemata of theLFG-formalism, the following being the most commonones:Embedding: T =Isomorphy: (T At t r )  =Discrimination: (T Att r )  = 'ValuePercolation: (T Att r )  = (J.
At t r )(T At t r2)  = (T At t r l  At t r2)Similarly, we need a theory for the possible relationsbetween lexical categories and constituent structure on theone hand, and for the relation between lexical items andDODs on the other.
The relation between lexical heads andmajor syntactic constituents is in LFG spelled out as acondition that any f-structure must contain a semanticform as the value of the attribute PRED in order to becoherent and complete (Kaplan&Bresnan, 1982: 211f),where PRED-attributes primarily go with nouns, verbs andadjectives.
In the present framework a similarcorrespondence an be stated in terms of DODs and theattribute Instance-of.
However, we should allowInstance-of-deecriptors to be associated with more thanone word of a constituent as long as they have compatiblevalues.
This should be the case for expressions such as Mr.Jim Smith, where all words specify different attributes of aperson, and for an adjective such as dry in (5) when itapplies to wines.I regard grammar rules as defining the internalcomposition of significant syntactic objects.
By 'significant'is then meant significant for determining objectdescriptors.
This means that I favour isomorphy .andembedding as the local structural correspondences betweenGDs  and CDs.
The internal composition usually specifiesone or more positions for lexicM heads and otherdistinguished markers for that type of constituent.
Rulesfor declarative sentences and NPs (which hold good forboth Swedish and English) are shown below.
VCOMP andNCOMP are variables over regular expressions ofcomplements that are assigned variables from the lexicalhead.RI: U -> {S \ [Dec l \ ] /S{ Imp\ ] / .
.
.
)R2: S\[Decl\] -> NP\[Subj\] V\[Fin\] VCOMP SAD J*R3: NP  -> (DET/NP\[POSs\]) AP*  N NCOMP REL*As soon as a lexical head (or other marker) for asyntactic constituent has been recognized, such aconstituent as well as a corresponding DOD can be, postulated, the latter taking descriptors from both lexicalhead and structure.
Associated with the rule thatintroduces declarative clauses we would have schematasuch as:DSI: (T Instance-of)  = 'Assertion(T Agent)  = <Score-board Speaker>(T Recip ient)  = <Score-board Addressee>(T Event )  =A lexical entry for a word gives for each one of itsdifferent uses a syntactic category, a morphologicalsub-category (omitted here), a set of descriptive schemataand a structure of possible complements with associateddescriptive schemata.
The verb cancel has as one of itsentries:cance~ V; (T Instance-of) = 'CancelNP\[Subjl; (T Agent) =VCOMP:  NP; (T Object) =PP; (T T ime) =F rom DODs to Discourse ObjectsThe linguistic information can not give us a discourseobject.
Instead we need special modules that attempt tolink DODs to discourse objects.
There are different ypes ofrelations between DODs and discourse objects, however.Certain DODs should be linked to existing discourseobjects (anaphoric pronouns, Proper Nouns), others shouldbe used to constitute a discourse object (main declarativeclauses, indefinite NPs in certain positions) and still othersshould be linked to a discourse object only indirectly (NPsand APs in predicative positions).
Such information is alsoassociated with words and constructions and we mayencode it by special-purpose d scriptors.Suppose information concerning discourse status isencoded by means of an attribute Status  with values suchas Topical, Speaker, Addressee.
An NP containing adefinite article or the pronoun it is assigned such adescriptor from lexical entries of the following sort:145the; DET; { (T Status)=Topical/ (T Status)='Known }/t; { NP; (T Status)=Topical(T Sex)='Neutral / NP\[it\]; --}If a DOD has the descriptor \[Status: Topical\] amodule is activated which attempts to unify the givenDOD (minus the Status-descriptor) with the DODs of theobjects in the seore-board field for topical objects.
If thissucceeds for exactly one of the topical objects, that objectis chosen as the object picked out by the given DOD.
Wemark this on the DOD by assigning that object (i.e.
itslabel) as value of a special attribute, say Picks.
When theDOD is thus completed control is given back to thesyntactic parser.In the case of (4) such a matching would fail.
Parsingcan still continue with an alternative analysis of it as, say apurely formal element without links to a discourse object.An object module may also be called to resolvestructural ambiguities.
In a parsing of (6) the syntacticprocessing would reach a state in which an ambiguitycannot be resolved on syntactic grounds.
Let us assume thefollowing rules and lexical entries in addition to thosealready stated.R4: PP \ [p \ ] ->  P\[p\] NPR5: SADJ = {PP\ [on \ ] / .
.
.
}meeting; N; (T Instmace-of) = 'MeetingNCOMP: PP\[with\];E (7 Participants)PP; (T Time) =Thus, the DOD associated with the PP  on Monday  canbe consumed either by the DOD describing a topicalmeeting or the DOD describing the cancellation.
If wematch grammatically obtained DODs at every possiblepoint of completion we would give control to theecore-board processor as soon as we have found the phrasethe meeting ignoring potential complements.
The DODwould then be:astance-of: 'Meeting 1tatus: TopicalIf there is only one topical meeting, this match wouldsucceed and we could then complete the constituent andattach it under the declarative S. This would also meanthat NCOMP is set to NIL and that the PP  will beconsumed by the verb.
If there is no unique match in thescore-board at this point, control is again given to theparser which looks for a PP-complement to the noun.
Itwill fred one, include its DOD in the meeting-DOD andagain give control to the score-board processor.
If there isnow a unique match, parsing and interpretation will becompleted succesfully; otherwise it will fail.CONCLUSIONSIf we believe that users of NLIs think in terms of "doingthings to things" and want to talk about those things inthe same way as in ordinary language, e.g., by usingpronouns and ellipsis, the NLI itself should be able to"think" in terms of things and understand when they arebeing talked about and how their saliency influenceinterpretation.
Thus, an internal object-orientedrepresentation language is suitable and a parser/interpreterthat can make use of some knowledge about currentdiscourse objects a necessity.
As for the methods sketchedbriefly in this paper further work will be needed todetermine whether they are adequate for their task.ACKNOWLED GE1VIENTSI want to thank one of my reviewers for valuablecomments on the draft version.
As I am not sure that hewishes to be associated with the contents of this paper Ishall let him remain anonymous.REFERENCESBrady, Michael and Berwick, Robert C. (1984):Computational Models of Discourse.
Second printing.
TheMIT Press.Dahlbgck, Nils and J6nsson, Arne (1986): A System forStudying Human.Computer Dialogues in Natural Language.Research report LITH-IDA-R-86-42, Link6ping University,Department ofComputer and Information Science.Fenstad, Jens Erik, Halvorsen, Per-Kristian, Langholm,Tore and van Benthem, Johan (1986): Equations,Schemata and Situations: A framework for linguisticsemantics.
CSLI and Xerox Palo Alto Research Center.Hayes, Philip J.
(1984): Bntity-Oriented Parsing.Department of Computer Science, Carnegie-MellonUniversity.
Also in IOtA International Conference onComputational Linguistics, Stanford, 1984, pp.
212-217.146Kapla, n, R. & Bresnam, J.
(1982): Lezical-FunctionalGrammar: A Formal System for GrammaticalRepresentation.
In Bresnan (ed.)
(1982) The MentalRepresentation of Grammatical Relations.
The MIT Press,Cambridge, Ma~.
pp.
173-281.Lewis, David (1979): Scorekeeping in a Language Game.
InR.
B~uerle, U. Egli and A. yon Stechow (eda.
): Semanticsfrom Different Pointe of View.
Springer-Verlag, 1979:172-187.Sidner, Candace L. (1984): Focusing in the comprehensionof definite anaphora.
In Brady&Berwick pp.
267-330.Tomita, Ma~aru, and Csrbonell, Ja~me G, (1986): AnotherStride Towards Knowledge-Based Machine Translation.Proceedings of COLING '80, University of Bonn, pp.633-38.Webber, Bonnie L. (1984): 5o what can we talk about nowfIn Brady&Berwick pp.
331-371.Wilks, Yorick, Huang, Xiuming & Fass, Dan (1985):Sgntaz , Preference and Right Attachment.
In Proceedingsof the Ninth International Joint Conference of ArtificialIntelligence, Los Angeles, 1985, pp.
779-784.147
