TEMPORAL REASONING IN NATURAL LANGUAGE UNDERSTANDING:THE TEMPORAL STRUCTURE OF  THE NARRATIVEA lexander  Nakh imovskyDepar tment  of Computer  ScienceColgate Univers i tyHami l ton,  NY 13346 USACSNet:  sasha@co lgateAbstractThis paper proposes a new framework for dis-course analysis, in the spirit of Grosz and Sid-ner (1986), Webber (1987a,b) but differentiatedwith respect o the type or genre of discourse.
Itis argued that different genres call for differentrepresentations and processing strategies; par-ticularly important is the distinction betweensubjective, pefformative discourse and objectivediscourse, of which narrative is a primary ex-ample.
This paper concentrates on narrativesand introduces the notions of temporal focus(proposed also in Webber (1987b)) and narra-tive move.
The processing tasks involved in re-constructing the temporal  structure of a narra-tive (Webber's e/e structure) are formulated interms of these two notions.
The remainder ofthe paper analyzes the durational and aspectualknowledge needed for those tasks.
Distinctionsare established between grammatical spect, as-pectual class and the aspectual perspective of asentence in discourse; it is shown that in En-glish, grammatical spect under-determines theaspectual perspective.NARRATIVESThis paper investigates the varieties of tempo-ral knowledge and temporal reasoning that areat work in understanding extended narratives.It starts out by developing a new framework fornarrative representation, a framework that hasdeveloped independently from, but is very sim-ilar to Webber, 1987a, 1987b.
It also builds onthe ideas of Grosz and Sidner (1986), but refor-mulates them specifically for the task of narra-tive understanding.
A reformulation, I believe,is needed because different genres of discourse -narrative, expository text, task-oriented dialog,argument, etc.
- have different principles of or-ganization that call for different representationsand processing strategies.
Without offering acomprehensive taxonomy of discourse genres Iwould llke to stress that narrative stands outby virtue of its two properties: it is objectiveand it unfolds in time.A distinction between subjective and objec-tive modes of discourse has been drawn by manyauthors in linguistics and structuralist poetics,who all "have a category of narration to whichanother category is opposed; and they all agreethat the non-narrative category is more subjec-tive ~ (Lyone,1982:117).
One manifestation ofthe objectivity of narratives is the structure ofthe underlying intentions.
This structure playsan important role in Grosz and Sidner, 1986who propose, inter alia, are that (a) the con-tent of discourse is embedded in, and classifiedby, the speaker's intentions which form a hier-archical intentional structure, and (b) the con-tent structure is separate from the attentionalstate, and both are rather indirectly representedby the linguistic material of discourse, orga-nized in a hierarchical structure o f  discoursesegments.
I adopt (b) without reservations,but (a), I suggest, needs to be modified anddifferentiated.
In dialogs the structure of in-tentions is, indeed, rich and informative (notethat most indirect speech acts occur in dialogs);in narratives and expository prose the inten-tion is practically constant: aintend that theother discourse participant believe propositionp~ (cf.
Grosz and Sidner, 1986:184).
In otherwords, the only discourse purpose of a narra-tive or its segments is to modify the memoryof the other discourse participant.
Removingthis, rather uninformative, top level of inten-tion, reveals the %bjective ~ content structureof the narrative, whose main building block lsa situation persisting or evolving in time, bestvisualized as a four-dimensional piece of time-space.
Loosely following Hayes, 1978 I use theterm history-token (h-token) for all varieties ofsuch situations (events, processes, activities, ha-262bitual actions, etc); each h-token is an instanceof a hiztory-type (h-type) corresponding to ab-stract situations types of Situation Semantics.I assume that associated with each predicate ofthe meaning representation language is a set ofroles such as Agent, Object or Patient; an h-type is a predicate together with its roles and aselectional restriction on them (cf.
Creary andPoUard, 1985, Hobbs etal ,  1986).Removing the top layer of intentions leadsto other changes in the Grosz-Sidner model.Each discourse segment (DS) is now character-ized by its main h-token, rather than its DS pur-pose.
An h-token is, in turn, characterized bya spatio-temporal location, a set of participantsand a time scale.
Dominance relations betweenintentions correspond to compositional relationsbetween h-tokens: the h-token of entering aroom decomposes into opening the door, cross-ing the threshold, closing the door (providedthere is a door to open and close).
Satisfaction-precedence relations between intentions corre-spond to the temporal and causal relations be-tween histories.
Thus re-interpreted, the pairintentional structure-attentional state of Grossand Sidner, 1986 becomes very similar to Web-her's (1987a:137) proposal: aAlong with build-ing up a discourse model of the entitles salientto the given text, the listener is also buildingup a model of the events and situatons theyparticipate in-e/s structure.
= (Although Web-her speaks of a Itext' in general, I believe shemeans 'a narrative text,' and all her examplesare such.)
To emphasize the similarity of thetwo approaches, and to avoid proliferation ofterminology, I use Webber's term e/s structurefor the representation of the narrative's con-tent, but retain Gross and Sidner's terminologyfor the attentional state and speak of a focusspace (FS) corresponding to each DS, and a fo-cus space stack (FS stack).
An important dif-ference is that I don't think anything ever getspopped o f  the FS stack: it just keeps growing,representing the linear progression of the text(while the e/s structure represents the tempo-ral progression of its content).
It is a stackonly in the sense that its top element is theeasiest o access, not in the sense of followingthe LIFO discipline.
Even interruptions, di-gressions and flashbacks, to which the pop-offaction seems most applicable, are better repre-sented as a move into a new FS, accompanied bya promise to return: to return to the immedi-ately preceding FS in the case of interruptions,and to a specified position in the e/s structurein the case of digressions and flashbacks.The constancy of intention is one aspect ofthe narmtive's objectivity; another one is its"closeness unto itself" in the processing of defi-nite and temporal anaphora.
Subjectivity goeswith deixis, the constant presence of the situa-tion of utterance in the processing model.
Ob-jective texts' contents are removed from deixisinto a separate universe, which, in the case ofnarratives, is endowed with its own, separatetimeline.
In some languages this separateness isclearly signalled by special narrative-beginningdevices and/or narrative tenses (Dahl, 1985).
InEnglish, there is of course an overlap betweenthe "narrative =and "non-narrative = tenses, butit is far less complete than is usually supposed:one could go through a book on computer sci-ence and not find a single occurrence of a pasttense, except, perhaps, in short passages on thehistory of particular ideas; conversely, one couldgo through a long novel and not find a singlesentence in the present or future, except in thecharacters' dialogs.Behind the superficial dl~erence in the useof tenses stands the more important one in thebasic meaning of the grammatical category oftense.
The standard view is that tense in-dicates relative position in time with respectto the speech event (Comrie, 1985).
In di-alogs tense indeed appears in its deictic func-tion, which is also the dominant function of thepresent and future tenses.
However, past tensesare diferent, especially in narratives; consider:~On March 5, 3275, Captain Kirk got up early,shaved and boarded the Enterprise.
~ Surely,the form of the verb 8base does not mean thatthe Captain was clean-shaven before the bookwent to print.
Rather, it indicates that we are ina narrative, and it helps position the event vis-a-vis the narmtive's preceding events.
In otherwords, narrative tenses are anaphoric, not delc-tic.
An analogy with pronouns is, perhaps, use-ful: although 3 person pronouns are grouped to-gether with I and you in traditional grammars,and although they can be used deicticaUy (ifstrongly accented and accompanied by a ges-ture) their primary function is anaphoric.The anaphorlc nature of past tenses (first rec-ognized in Partee (1973), investlg~ted specifi-cally in narratives in Hinrichs (1986)) has im-portant computational implications, for anaphoracan only be resolved with respect to a con-stantly maintained and updated focus (Gross,1977; Sidner, 1983).
To emphasize the par-aUel between temporal and definite anaphora,I will speak of the temporal focus of a narra-tive.
(The same term for the same concept and263with the same motivation is proposed in Web-her, 1987b; in Nakhimovsky 1986, 1987 I speakof the Active Window on discourse, or Windowfor short; I~mp and Rohrer, 1983 have recy-cled Reichenbach's Reference Point for a sim-ihr  concept.)
If the focus eimpliciter answersthe question =What are we talking about?
u thetempor~ focus answers the question ZWhere intime IS the narrative now?
w As the narrativeprogresses, the temporal focus changes its po-sition in time; I will refer to the movement oftemporal focus from one sentence of the narr'~-tive to the next as t/~e na~ative move.A narrative move can remain within the cur-rent FS, or shift to a different one, which canbe totally new or a resumption of a~u old FSfrom the stack.
(In terms of linguistic structure,the current sentence may continue the same, orstart a new, DS.)
The two kinds of narrativemoves will be called micro- and macro-moves,respectively.
Examples (1)-(3) contrast he twokinds of moves and Illustrate other concepts in-troduced in this section.
(1) a. John entered the president's once.
b.The president got up.This is narrative at its simplest: an orderlyprogression of events within the same narrativeunit.
The required Inferential work le relativelytransparent.
The event of John's entering theonce results in the state of his being in the of-rice: this le part of the lexical meaning of enter.The temporal focus is inside this state, at itsbeginning.
Sentence b., which in \]sol=tion couldmean that the president got up from his bed athome, is interpreted vis-a-vis the position of thetemporal focus: the president was in his office,sitting; he saw John and got up; both men arenow standing, 'now' referring to the temporalfocus as it always does.
This example showsthat it would be more accurate to speak of thespatio-temporal focus to which the current situ-ation is anchored (cf.
Barwiee and Perry, 1983)but I leave the spatial dimensions of narrativefor future research.Examples (2) and (3) Illnstmte macro-moves:(2) a.
Gradually, H~rvey ber~n to yield thedetails of his crime, prodded by the persistentquestions of the investigator, b.
He arrived atthe bank at 4 p.m. dressed as a postal worker.
(3) a. Hartley and Phoebe had been sent bytheir mother to fix the tail v-~hve of the windmilLb.
In the great expanse of the prairie wherethey lived, the high tower of the windmill wasthe only real landmark (Worline, 1956:1).In (2), the similarity between definite andtemporal anaphora stands out quite clearly.Just as he in sentence b. anaphoricaily evokesdiscourse-prominent \]~rvey, so arrived evokesthe time of the discourse-promlnent crime eventand ~ p.m. evokes the day of that event.
Just ashe selects for anaphoric reference one of two dis-course entities available for pronominalization,so art/red and ~ p.m. select one of two availableevents, the interro~-~tion and the crime.
Theshift of temporal focus to an earlier event, overa considerable time interval, signals the begin-ning of a new DS.
The FS associated with theold DS is saved on the stack together with thelast position of the temporal focus in it, which isunder-determined by the English narmrive: itcan be within, or right after, the reconstructedthe details history.
If the DS is resumed withHarvey took a sip of water ~nd mopped Aie brow,we don't know whether the reconstruction isover or not.In (3) the beginning of a new DS in sentenceb.
is indicated by a drastic change in time scMe,rather than movement of focus.
Sentence a.establishes, either directly or through simple,lexicon-ba4~ed inferences, three events: the tailv~ne broke, mother sent the children to fix it,the children set off walking.
The temporal fo-cus, Indicated by the past perfect ense, is in themiddle of the wallri~g event; the time scale ofthe entire sequence is within a day or two.
Thetime scale of sentence b, Indicated by the ~uAerethev lived chuee a~d the lifetime of a windmill(h~cDermott, 1982), is years or decades.
(Notethe accompa~ylng shift in the spatial scale fromone household to the entire prairie.
)Narrativse (1)-(3) |11narrate several impor-tant points about the temporal focus.
First,it is always Inside some history, either directlynarrated or inferred.
If that history has a built-in terminM point that is reached in the normalcourse of events, the position of the focus setsup the expectation that, within a certain timescale, the terminal point will be reached.
So,in (3) we expect the children to make it to thewindmill before it gets dark, and indeed, after apage of background material, the FS of (3a) isresumed, with children already standing at theirdestination.
Second, the position of the tempo-ral focus may be under-determined, as in (2),but there are precisely two possibilities: insideor right after the most recently narrated his-tory.
Adopting the terminology of Smith (1986)I will speak of the imperfective and perfectivesentence perspective, respectively.Given the conceptual apparatus that has264been developed in this section, several tasks in-volved in narrative understanding can be spec-ified.
The tasks are clearly interrelated, but inthis paper I make no comment on how the in-teraction can be set up.
(4) As each new sentence of the narrativecomes in do:?
a. determine the type of narrative move(micro or raaero) that the new sentencerepresents.
I f  it is a macro-move, updatethe FS stack and position the new F5 inthe ezisting e-s structure.
I f  it is a micro-move, determine the temporal relations be-tween the histories described by the currentand the preceding sentence.?
b. using knowledge about durations and as-pectual classes of events, determine the as-pectual perspective of the new sentence andthe position of the temporal focus;?
e. using knowledge about causality and in-ternal constituency of events, add inferredevents to the narrated ones; update old ez-pectations and set up new ones.Several kinds of temporal knowledge are thusbrought to bear on the process of narrative un-derstanding.
First, there is knowledge aboutdurations and time scales, and the interaction,totally disregarded in existing work, betweenthe event structure of the narrative and the hi-erarchy of ~received n time cycles such as timesof day, seasons of the year and the stages of hu-man life.
Second, there is compositional knowl-edge about internal constituency of events andtheir terminal points.
Third, there is aspectualknowledge, both lexical, about intrinsic prop-erties of histories, and grammatical, about theway the history is presented by a given verbform.
The remainder of this paper investigatesthese three kinds of knowledge and the waysthey are represented in the lexicon and utilizedin narrative understanding.DURATIONInformation about durations can be entered inthe lexicon in the following three ways thatare not mutually exclusive: (a) most generally,as qualitative functional dependencies (Forbus,1985) among the participants of the situation;so, the time it takes to read a text dependson its length and genre, and the proficiency ofthe reader;, (b) for some h-types (e.g.
lecture,shower, lunch) the duration of their h-tokens isstable and can be entered in the lexicon directlyas a fuzzy number (e.g.
lecture \[1,2 hour\]; (c) fora majority of h-types, the tlme scale of their h-tokens is quite narrowly constrained, where thetime scale of an interval is a sequence of mea-surement units that are anaturaln to it: mea-sured in a natural unit, the length of the in-terval will not be a very small fraction (greaterthan some constant R) or a very big number(less than some constant N).
The importantideas are, first, that measurement units forma small set that is partial ly civilization specific,partially determined by the biological and phys-ical universals; second, that the duration of anh-token constrains the choice of measurementunits in which its duration is measured and thusthe precision of measurements: when we say Ittook loan an hour to repair a faucet we don'tmean that it took him 3600 seconds.An  important durational class of h-tokensis instantaneous events.
There is a persistentmisconception, inspired by scientific thinking,that the notion of an instantaneous or punc-tual event can only be defined relative to a timescale because awe can always 'increase the mag-nification' and find more structure s (Allen andKauts, 1985:253; see also Dowry, 1986, Kamp,1979).
I believe that instantaneousness i  anabsolute quality determined by our biology: in-stantaneous events are those that are not per-ceived by humans as possessing internal struc-ture.
Languages elect such events for specialtreatment by disallowing the ~imperfectlve de-scription B of them: one cannot use the imper-fective aspect o place the temporal focus in themiddle of an instantaneous event, so that Thelight was flashing does not place the temporalfocus inside an individual flash.
(More on as-pects below.
)Non-lnstantaneous events are, intuitively,discrete and countable ntities with a distinctbeginning and end; packaged in between thebeginning and end of an event is the %tuifthe event is made of, = which is a process orstate.
This intuitlon is dlscussed in a consider-able body of l iterature that compares the event-process and count-mass oppositions (Moure-latos, 1981, Bunt, 1985, Bach, 1986).
As I ar-gue in Nakhimovsky (1986), all these authorsshould also have allowed for events made out ofstates, as, for example, the event described byBobby took a nap.
Surprisingly, collocations ofthis nature have never, to my knowledge, beendiscussed in connection with the English aspec-tual system.
(Cf.
also did some reading, went265/or a v~at~ )The distinctions event-process and process-state are thus orthogonal to each other, ratherthan forming a single classification as in Moure-latos, 1981; Allen, 1984.
The former distinctionis one of aspect: %he term 'process' means a dy-namic situation viewed imperfectively, and theterm 'event' means a dynamic situation viewedperfectively m (Comrie, 1976:51).
The latter dis-tinction is one of aspectual class.
This is elabo-rated in the next section.ASPECTIn what follows it is essential to keep the follow-ing three concepts apart: aspect as a grammati-cal category of the verb, implemented by affixes,auxillarles and such; aspectual class, which isa characteristics of an h-type or lexical mean-ing; the aspectual perspective of the sentence.Both grammatical aspect and aspectual classsometimes uniquely determine, sometimes juststrongly constrain, the aspectual perspective.In English, the progressive aspect guaranteesthat the sentence perspective is imperfective;in any language, instantaneous events are pre-sented perfectively (which does not mean thatthe corresponding verbs are in any sense per-fective).
All  three concepts are needed for un-derstanding the workings of aspectual systems;I don't think anybody in the abundant recentl iterature on aspect keeps all three clearly apart.There are languages, most notably Slavic,where the difference in the sentence perspectiveis hard-wired into verb morphology: simplify-ing slightly, every Russian verb is either perfec-rive or imperfective, and the morphological fea-ture of the verb determines the aspectual per-spective of the sentence.
(In fact, the Englishterm 'aspect'  is a mistranslation of the Russianterm ' r id , '  'view, perspective.')
In other words,I claim, rather audaciously, that grammaticalaspect is a purely attentional device that helpsdetermine the position of the temporal focus;all the other shades of aspectual meaning re-sult from interactions between this (pragmat-ically defined) Grundbsdeutung and numerousother factors, including aspectual class, dis-course genre, and general pragmatic principlesof language.The following examples, adopted from Dowty(1986), i l lustrate the interplay between aspect,aspectual class and the micro-move of the nar-rative.
(I repeat (1) here for convenience.
)(1) a. John entered the president's office, b.The president got up.
(5) a. John entered the president's office, b.The president was asleep, c. The clock on thewall ticked loudly.
(6) a. John entered the president's office, b.The president was writing a letter.Sentences ( la)  and ( lb)  describe two pro-cesses (entering and getting up) that each havea built-in terminal point that is reached inthe normal course of events and beyond whichthe processes cannot continue.
(In Vendler's(1967) well-known classification such processesare called accomplishments; I call them, follow-ing Comrie (1976), tellc processes.)
The aspec-tual perspective of both sentences i peffective;the events of the two sentences are understoodto have happened in succession; the temporalfocus has advanced to the time when both menare standing.Sentences b. and c. in (5) describe a stateand an atelic process, respectively.
They areunderstood to have begun before the event ofsentence 1, and to persist in paral le l  The tem-poral focus stands still.
Note that the sentenceperspective of b. and c. is determined by theaspectual class, not grammatical spect.
In (6),however, the sentence perspective of b., and themicro-move from a. to b., are determined by theprogressive form of the verb: alt.hough writinga letter is a relic process the mlcro-move in (6)is the same as in (5).The history of misconceptions concerning theEnglish aspectual system can be summarizedas follows.
First it was believed that Englishhas no aspect; progresslve was called a tense.When it came to be recognized that progres-sive is a variety of the impeffectlve aspect, thenext misconception was to assume that sinceEnglish has an hnpeffectlve, it ought to havea peffective also, with simple past an obviouscandidate.
However, examples like (5c) showthat a sentence with a verb in simple past canhave the imperfective perspective.
The cur-rent consensus eems to be that simple pastof accomplishment verbs is peffective (Hinrichs,1986:68; Dowty, 1986:46-8).
In other words, ifthe verb form = simple past and the aspectualclass = telic process then the sentence perspec-tive is peffective and the temporal focus ad-vances.
Consider, however, example (7), wheretwo accomplishments, both described by verbsin the simple past, unfold in parallel and areboth interrupted by a doorbell:266- "  ?
(7) a.
After supper, Alice and Sharon satdown in the living room.
b. Alice read a book,Sharon watched her favorite ballet on television.c.
Suddenly the doorbell rang.Other examples of micro-moves that violateHinrichs' rule are given in (8) and (9), quotedfrom Dowty, 1986.
(The rule can also be vio-lated by a macro-move, as in example (2)).
(8) John knelt at the edge of the stream andwashed his hands and face.
He washed slowly,feeling the welcome sensation of the icy wateron his parched skin.
(From Dry, 1983)(9) Pedro dined at Madam Gilbert's.
Firsthe gorged himself on hors d'oeuvres.
Then hepaid tribute to the fish.
After that the butlerbrought in a glazed chicken.
The repast endedwith a flaming dessert.
(From Kamp,  ms.)I conclude that English has no (morphologi-cal) peffective; it has a marked impeffective andan unmarked default that does not provide sub-stantial information about the aspectual per-spective of the sentence (cf.
Dahl, 1985 forthe same view).
In other words, English mor-phology, even combined with aspectual class,underdetermines the sentence perspective andthe mlcro-move of the narrative.
However, thenumber of possibilities is limitied, and an ex-tensive empirical investigation could, I believe,produce a full catalog of micro-moves commonlyemployed in Western narratives.ASPECTUAL CLASSThe major division among non-instantaneoushistories, recognized at least since Aristotle,is between process (energela) and state (sta-sis).
In recent times, Vendler (1967) proposed ahighly influential classification that is still com-monly accepted, although the principles of clas-sification have changed.
Vendler believed, erro-neously, that he was classifying English verbs,rather than sentence denotations, and he usedsuch language-specific criteria as whether or nota verb has a progressive form (Vendler's sta-tives, such as know, don't).
In the model-theoretical version of Taylor and Dowry, theclassification is based on the relationship be-tween the truth value of a sentence at an in-terval and at its subintervals; o, for instance, asentence S is stative (denotes a state) iff it fol-lows from the truth of S at an interval I that Sis true at all subintervals of I.
(Dowty, 1986:42).I submit that these criteria cannot possiblybe right, i.e.
capture the real distinctions oper-ative in the workings of human language: thesehave to relate to something perceived and expe-rienced, rather than truth values (which is notto deny that real distinctions may result in fairlyconsistent truth-functional properties).
It is notaccidental that Dowty's own example of a state(sleep) contradicts his definition: we can truth-fully say that Bob slept from 10 to 6 even if hegot up once to go to the bathroom.
My proposalis that we take the physical vocabulary of pro-cesses and states eriously, and classify historlesaccording to their internal dynamics, the stabil-ity of their parameters and the resources theyconsume.
(Part of the internal dynamics, in thepresence of a conscious agent, is the degree ofvolitional controL) We can then note the dis-tinction between states that do not require anyresources to sustain themselves (know English,own a house) and those that do (sleep requiresa certain amount of sleepiness that graduallywears out).
The sub-interval property holdsonly for zero-resource, zero-control states, andis, in fact, a simple consequence of their otherproperties: a state that requires no resourcesand cannot be dropped in and out of at willobtains continuously.Resource-consuming states all seem to re-quire only generic internal resources, whichare not specific to any given state but ratherto all individuals of a given sort.
Withinprocesses, there are those that require onlygeneric resources (walking) and those that re-quire process-specific resources as well: read-ing, for example, requires not only being awakeand not too hungry, but also a text to read.Telic processes can be defined as processes thatconsume a specific amount of a domain-specificresource.
Resources are understood broadly:walking from A to B consumes the distance be-tween them, building a house consumes the as-yet-unbuilt but envisioned part of it, and de-stroying a house consumes the finite amountof %tructure = or %rder  ~ built into it.
Theseexamples illustrate three main classes of relicprocesses: creating an object, destroying an ob-ject, and moving a specified amount of material(possibly the mover himself) to a specified des-tination.
A subclass of destruction processesare ingestions, which convert an external re-source into an internal one.
Moving is under-stood to include all three of Schank's PTRANS,ATRANS and MTRANS classes, with the pro-viso that, unlike physical motion, MTRANS re-ally copies structures from the source to the des-tination.
Moving also includes gradual (but not267instantaneous) changes of state.Lacking internal structure, instantaneous eventshave to be classified by comparing the world be-fore and after them.
An instantaneous eventcan terminate ither a process or a state, andit can initiate either a process or a state; if itis sandwiched in between two processes or twostates, the two can be the same or different.The resulting classification, discussed in Nakhi-movsky, 1987, captures linguistically significantdistinctions: for instance, most English verbsdescribing instantaneous events fall into thosegroups where the instantaneous event meets astate.FUTURE RESEARCHPerhaps the biggest task involved in narra-tive understanding is to infer, using knowl-edge about causality and the internal con-stituency of events, the missing links betweennarrated events and the temporal relations be-tween them.
This involves solving qualitativefunctional equations that hold between the pa-rameters of described histories and resourcesthey consume (cf.
Forbus, 1985), and prop-agating durational constraints (of.
Allen andKautz, 1985).
An analysis of the required lex-ical knowledge is presented in this paper andNakhlmovsky (1987).
The subject is further de-veloped in Nakhimovsky (in preparation).ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI 'm grateful to Colgate University for givingme a leave to do research, and to Yale's AIProject for providing a stimulating environmentfor it.
My conversations with Tom Myers,Donka Farkas and Larry Horn have helped meclarify my ideas.
Alex Kass read a draft of thepaper and provided valuable comments and in-valuable technical assistance.REFERENCESAllen, James, and Kautz, H. A.
1985.
A modelof naive temporal reasoning.
In Hobbs andMoore, 1985.Bach, Emmon.
1986.
The algebra of events.Linguistles and Philosophy, 9:5-16.Bobrow, Daniel.
(Ed.)
1985.
QualitativeReasoning about Physleal Systems.
Cambridge,~Lk: MIT Press.Bunt, H. 1985.
The formal representationof (quasi) continuous concepts.
In Hobbs andMoore, 1985.Comrie, B.
1976.
Aspect.
Cambridge: Cam-bridge University Press.Comrie, B.
1985.
Tense.
Cambridge: Cam-bridge University Press.Creary, L., and Pollard, Carl.
1985.
Acomputational semantics for natural language.ACL-85: 172-9.Dahl, O.
1985.
Tense and Aspect Systems.Oxford: Basil Blackwell.Dowry, David.
1986.
The effects of aspectualclass on the temporal structure of discourse.
InDowry, 1988:37-61.Dowry, David.
(ed.)
1986a.
Tense and As-pect in Discourse.
Linguistics and Philosophy,9,1.
(Special issue)Dry, Helen.
1983.
The movement of narra-tive time.
Journal o/Literary Semantics, 12:19-53.Forbus, K. D. 1985.
Qualitative process the-ory.
In Bobrow, 1985.Grosz, Barbara, 1977.
The representationann use of focus in a .system for understand-ing dialogs.
IJCAI-77 Proceedings, Los Altos,CA: Morgan Kaufmann.Gross, Barbara, and Candace Sidner.
1986.Attention, intentions and the structure of dis-course.
Computational Linguistics, 12,3:175-204.Hayes, P. 1978.
The naive physics manifesto.In D. Michie (Ed.
), Ezpert Systen~s in the Mi-eroeleetronie Age.
Edinburgh, Scotland: Edin-burgh University Press.Hinrichs, Erhard.
1986.
Temporal anaphorain discourses of English.
In Dowty, 1986a: 63-82.Hobbs, J. R., and R. C. Moore (Eds.).
1985.Formal Theories of the Coraraonsenae World.Norwood, NJ: Ablex Publishing Corporation.Hobbs, J. R. et al 1986.
Commonsensemetaphysics and lexical semantics.
ACL-86:231-40.Hopper, Paul.
1978.
Aspect and foreground-ing in discourse.
In Talmy Givon, ed., Discourse268and Syntaz.
(Syntax and Semantics, voL 12.
)New York: Academic Press.Hopper, Paul.
1982.
(ed.)
Tenae-~peet: be-tween Semantics and Pragmatic& Amsterdam:John Benjamins.Kamp, Hans.
1979.
Events, instants andtemporal reference.
In R. Banerle, U. Egli andArnim yon Stechow (eds.)
Semantics from Dif-ferent Points of View.
Berlin: Springer.Kamp, Hans.
ms. Discourse representationand temporal reference.Kamp, Hans, and Christian Roerer.
1983.Tense in texts.
In R. Bauerle, C. Schwarze,Arnim yon Stechow (eds.
), Meaning, Use andInterpretation i Language.
Berlin: De Gruyter.Lyons, John.
1982.
Deixis and subjectivity.In R. Jarvelia and W. Klein (eds.)
Speech, Placeand Action.
Chichester: John Wiley, 101-124.McDermott, Drew.
1982.
A temporal logicfor reasoning about processes and plans.
Cog-nitive Science, 1982, 6:101-155.MoureL~tos, A. P. D. 1981.
Events, processes,and states.
In Tedeschi and Zaenen, 1981.Nakhlmovsky, A.
1986.
Temporal compo-nents of word meanings and their coding in thelexicon.
Proceedings of the Conference on Ad-vances in Lexicology, University of Waterloo.NakhimovskT, A.
1987.
The lexicon, gram-matical categories and temporal reasoning.
InArtificial Intelligence and Simulation of Behav-ior, Chichester:.
John Wiley.Nakhimovsky, A.
In preparation.
Tense, as-pect and the temporal structure of the narra-tive.Partee, Barbara.
1973.
Some structuralanalogies between tenses and pronouns in En-glish.
Journal of Philosophy, 70:601-9.Sidner, Candace.
1983.
Focusing in the com-prehension of definite anaphora.
In l~L Bradyand R. Berwick eds., Computational Models ofDiscourse, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Smith, Carlota.
1986.
A speaker-based ap-proach to aspect.
In Dowty, 1986a: 97-115.Vendler, Z.
1967.
Linguistics and Philosophy.Ithaca, NY: Cornel\] University Press.Webber, Bonnie.
1987a.
Event reference.
InTINLAP-$ Position Papers.
Las Cruces: NewMexico State University.Webber, Bonnie.
1987b.
Two steps closerto event reference.
TR MS-CIS-86-74, Depart-ment of Computer and Information Science,University of Pennsylvania.Worline, Bonnie Bess.
1956.
The ChildrenWho Staved Alone.
New York: Scholastic BookServices.269
