PASS IVESSteve Pulman.University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory,Corn Exchange Street.Cambridge CB2 3QG.
UK.ABSTRACTThe English passive construction has played a centralrole in the to-ings and fro-ings of grammatical theory overthe last 30 years, from the earliest days of transformationalgrammar, to more recent, surface oriented theories of syn-tax.
The casual reader of the linguistic literature mighttherefore suppose that the computational linguist lookingfor an off the shelf analysis of passives would be able tochoose from among several competing analyses, each ofwhich accommodated the facts, but perhaps derived themfrom (or from them} different theoretical principles.
Un-fortunately, this is not the case.
as we shall see.
All ofthe analyses that \[ am familiar with are incomplete, or in-accurate in some respects, or simply unprogrammable inany straightforward form.
The present paper is an attemptto remedy this situation, and to provide such an off theshelf analysis of the syntax and semantics of passives.
Theanalysis of this central construction will be couched withina simple and computationally tractable syntactic and se-mantic formalism, and should translate asily to most cur-rently popular formalisms.
It will be quite eclectic, freelyborrowing from several different grammatical theories.Two unsat i s factory  analysesThe original starting point for the analysis here was thatpresented in Gazdar et al 1985 (also found unsatisfactoryby Kilbury t986).
In the GPSG framework, passive VPrules are derived by a metarule from active VPs:1.
VP -- NP.
W ~ VPpas -- V~.
(PPby)The interpretation of this metarule is as follows: for ev-ery rule expanding VP which introduces an NP daughter.there is also to be a rule which has the VP marked as pas-sive, does not contain that NP daughter, and may containa PP headed 'by'.
Feature principles ensure that the verbheading the VP will have passive morphology in this lattercase .There are several problems with this account.
An engi-neering problem concerns the interpretation of GPSGs forcomputational purposes.
One more or less workable con-strual regards the metagrammar s a set of instructionsfor producing a 'compiled" object grammar consisting ofcontext free rules augmented with some feature matchingmechanism.
However, this treatment produces large num-bers of such rules.
When 'slashed' versions of VP rules arealso compiled out the multipllcative effect can lead to manyhundreds of VP rules in a linguistic description.
While notfatal, this is still a problem for constructing efficient parsers.There are also several descriptive problems.
As Kilburypoints out.
the metarule as it stands would apply to VPswhich require a sentential subject, like "bother'.
on one ofits subcategorisations.
Thus we will be able to generatejunk like:2.
That Kim left was bothered \[by Sandy).Similarly.
for VPs introducing complements of verbs like"elect' we will get two outputs from the metarule, only oneof which is a sensible one:a. vP  - v(211 .~'m sP  ('etecc etc are VI211 )4. a We elected Kim presidentb Kim was elected presidentc *President was elected KimThe metarule wilL, however, fail to apply in the case ofVPs introducing a sentential object, since there is no NPdaughter, failing to generate perfectly good examples like6b:5.
VP - -V .
.
S"6. a They vehemently denied that there hadbeen a plutonium leakb That there had been a plutonium leak wasvehemently denied.Most of these problems are fairly easily fixable: for ex-amples like 2. it is a reasonable response to say that theyare syntactically ok. but sortally deviant: the obvious fixfor things like 6 is to regard sentential complements of this306type as dominated by NP.
as many other accounts havedone.
More serious is the fact that the metarule treatmentwill also fail to get the right results in those instances wherethe passivised NP is not a daughter of VP.
There are severaldifferent cases here: so-called "double passives" like:7. a Kim was taken advantage ofb Advantage was taken of KimIf 'take advantage of'  is treated as a complex V onlyone passive will be derived, for 'advantage' will not be adaughter of NP.
There are also 'prepositional passives' like:8. a Kim can't be relied onb That meal wasn't paid forwhere the "object' NP is actually inside a PP.
as requiredin order to also be able to generate:9. a On Kim, you can rely absolutelyb For that meal, the company will payPassives for which there is no active equivalent will failto be derived (by the metarule, at least}:I0.
a Sandy was said to be a CND activistb *They said Sandy to be a CND activistFinally, there is a problem about agent PPs.
The metaruletreatment allows for an optional agent phrase as a con-stituent of the passive VP.
The ID /LP  format presupposedin GPSG allows for some freedom of ordering between PPs.that are introduced by a VP: thus the output of the metarulefor an input VP -- VI..I, NP.
PP will allow possibilities like:11. a A book was given by Kim to Sandyb A book was given to Sandy by KimBut optional PP modifiers of VP are (correctly) intro-duced by a rule VP - -  VP PP.
There is thus no way ofaccounting for cases where a non-subcategorised-for PP in-tervenes between verb and agent PP:12.
John was iiiiarrested in the park on Friday!by the Special Brancheven though such cases are freely possible.
(The sameproblem occurs with Bach's (1980) analysis of passives).Bresnan (1982) presents an analysis of passives withinthe LFG framework.
Lexical entries for passive forms ofverbs are derived from those for the active form via a lex-ical rule which makes the appropriate morphological andsemantic changes.
Then passive VPs are parsed using thesame context free phrase structure rules as for actives, withprinciples of functional coherence and completeness makingsure that subcategorisation requirements are met.
and theappropriate interpretations arrived at.There are several problems with the proposed lexicaltreatment of passives, at least one of which could be re-garded as fatal.
\[t is not clear how passives with no activesource are derived, although presumably the required lexi-cal form could simply be listed.
Cases where the passivisedNPs are not daughters of VP are dealt with by making themambiguous, by stipulation in the "take advantage of' case.and by a lexical rule in the "prepositional passive' cases:t3.
V - -  iV PivThis has the unfortunate ffect that the unpassivised,unmoved versions of these phrases are also syntactically'ambiguous', i.e.
they receive two or more parses, corre-sponding to no discernible semantic difference:14. a Kim can be \[relied on'b \[On Kim I, you can always irelyic You can !irely on\] ;K im!d You can irely on  K im/In the case of those verbs which can take two preposi-tions, the rule must presumably have applied twice:15. a The bed has been thoroughly !irolledaround v on'vb On the bed.
the children rolled aroundc ?Around on the bed.
the children roiledgiving the curious consequence that the unpassivisedversion will now be three ways anabiguous:16. a irolled around on the bedb !irolled around on the bedc !
?rolled around on the bedBresnan's lexical rules operate within the lexicon andnot during a derivation.
The)- 'express patterns of redun-dancy that obtain among large but finite classes of lexicalentries' (Kaplan and Bresnan 1982. l_'30}.
This hag the con-sequence that the lexical analysis can only be sustained ifthere is a finite number of passivi~able verbs in English.For all practical purpose~, we can suppose that there is,but there is an argument to be made that theoretically,there is an infinite number of such verbs, arising as a resultof regular and productive morphological processes.A simple version of this argument can be made as fol-lows: there is presumably no upper limit to the numberof proper names in English: we can always make up newones.
and we can always concatenate existing names to formnew ones: Slater-Walker.
Hewiett-Packard.
etc.
But wecan form verbs using 'ise" from all of these: Bresnanise.Hewlett-Packard-ise.
tc.
And these verbs are all passivis-able (Thatcherised..X,\[arks-and-Spencerised) hence there isa potentially infinite number of passive verbs.
Without aninfinitely large lexicon the lexical treatment will be unableto cope.
It is not clear to me how central the claim quoted307above is to the theory of LFG.
But either it will have tobe abandoned, or some other way of handling passives willhave to be found within that theory.A unification-based analysisThe analysis here wilt be couched within a simple unification-enriched context-free formalism.
The intention is not topromote the formalism, but to use it to describe the anal-ysis in a way that will make it clear, and easy to trans-late into your own favourite formalism.
The semantics ofthe features in the rules is that provided by ordinary (i.e.Prolog-style) unification.
The semantic expressions asso-ciated with the rules are instructions for building logicalforms in a kind of 'intensionless Montague': a typed higherorder logic, like that in PTQ without the intension and ex-tension operators.
Semantic translations are assembled ona rule to rule basis by function application and composi-tion.
(I assume some separate mechanism for those caseswhere quantifier scope is not determined by the syntax.
)An example set of rules will illustrate:16.
Sitype decl!
-~ NPiagr X VPiagr X: NP (VP)i.e.
agr on NP must be identical to that on VP: the seman-tics of the S is what you get by applying the meaning ofthe NP to that of the VP.17.
NPiagr X -- Detlagr X' Nbaragr  X: Det (Nbar)18.
Nbar!agr X - -  Nagr  X:N19.
VF.agr X ~, --~ V!agr X, subcat npi NP: V (NP)A simple set of global default values for features is as-sumed: thus if a feature does not explicitly appear on acategory that it is a possible feature for, the default value.if any.
will be placed on it.
otherwise it will get a "don'tcare' variable.Unbounded dependencies can be accommodated by aversion of the 'gap-threading'  mechanism described in Kart-tunnen (1986).
The semantics of unbounded ependenciescan be treated in the same way as GKPS 1985: a con-stituent normally of type o, with a gap of type 3, will beof type ,3 - -  cL Gaps are of course NPs, PPs etc.
whichare missing an NP or PP.So much for background.
Using this type of machinerywe can obviate the need for a passive metarule.
Essentiallythe idea is to capture literally the observation that, syn-tactically, a passive VP is just like an active VP exceptthat the verb has passive morphology, and there is an NPmissing.
The missing NP is treated as a kind of 'boundeddependency'.
In the same way that GPSG style analysesintroduce unbounded ependencies at the top of a sentencefor wh-constructions, we will introduce a bounded depen-dency at the top of a passive VP.We will assume that regular passive verbs are derivedby a productive morphological process attaching a passiveaffix, en/ed.
{See Russell et al1986 for details of the mor-phological analysis system which is used).
The semanticconsequences of this are discussed below.
This process willapply to any verb of the appropriate class, whether or not itis itself the product of prior morphological processes.
Thesyntactic effect of this affixation is that passive verbs aremarked ~vform passive:, or something similar: 'vform' hereis essentially the same feature used in GPSG85, appearingalso on the VP constituent.
We also introduce a featuredistinguishing passive from active VPs: :passive - / - .
Thisfeature can also occur on NPs.
for a reason that will beimmediately apparent.
The default value for passive is -.There are at least two rules introducing passive VPs,one as postnominal modifiers, and one as complements to"be" and "get" etc:20.
VP\[agr X, vform Y --~Vbelagr X. vform Y\]VP'vform passive, passive -;-\]: Vbe (VP)The behaviour of the passive feature is written into theVP rules for the different types of verb that can passivise(I am assuming a GPSGish treatment of subcategorisationhere).Thus a VP rule for a transitive VP might look like:21.
VP%gr X. vform Y, passive Z - -Viagr X, vform Y. subcat transNPipassive Z: v (NP)Under normal circumstances, the rule will generate or-dinary transit ive VPs, but when appearing as complementto 'be' etc.
will require passive morphology on the verb, andwill contain that curious object, an NP marked \[passive +i.Such NPs are introduced by a rule:22.
NP\[passive +: ---* e : AP _~ x (P x)A passive NP is an empty NP, but a different ype of emptyNP from unbounded ependency gaps.
(This prevents thesame NP from being both passivised and wh-moved in thesame VP).
It means, roughly.
"something'.
All other NP~default to passive-.Syntactically.
then.
a passive version of a transitive VPlooks just like the active, except that the object is empty,Notice that the features guarantee that the passive NP isempty if and only if the verb is in the passive form.
Theattraction of this treatment is that it is the SAME rule thatgenerates both the active and the passive versions: no extrarules are involved.308We do similar things with the other types of VP whichcan passivise:(i) verb-particles:23.
VP;vform X, passive Y ---*Vv form X. subcat prt IPUPipassive Y:-giving things like:24.
The fight was switched offNotice that we can choose whether it is the moved (NP P)or the unmoved (P UP} version which is capable of pas-sivising: but only one of them, for otherwise passives willget two parses.
(ii) phrasal verbs:25.
VP vform X. passive Y -V vform X. subcat phrPPNP passive Y-giving:26.
John was looked up to by his children(iii) the raised version of 'object raising' verbs:27.
VPivform X, passive YI ---*Vlvform X, subcat objr 1NP!passive Y!VP(iv) both types of dative:2g.
VP vform X. passive YV vform X. subcat datUP passive YPP29.
VP vform X, passive Y -~V:vform X, subcat datmvt:NP'passive Y:UPWe prevent passive from applying where it should not bysimply leaving out the passive feature on the relevant rules:it then defaults to value -.For passives that have no active equivalent, we rely onthe same mechanism.
There are two types of case, those like"said', ' rumoured'  etc.. and those like "surprised at', 'aston-ished at'.
For the 'say' type cases, the passive version willbe derived by the object raising rule above.
Their passiveentry will be listed directly in the lexicon with the relevantsubcategorisation.
There will be no entry for the active ver-sion on that subcategorisation.
The absence of the actixeversion guarantees that we will not generate things like:30.
~They rumoured him to be a spybecause the only lexical entry for 'rurnour' with the appro-priate subcategorisation is the passive form, and the fea-tures guarantee that this cannot cooccur with a full NPin this structure.
The familiar ~promise persuade" alterna-tion is precisely" the inverse of this: we can simply arrangefor the lexical entry for "promise" on this subrategorisationto be marked as not undergoing affixation by the passivemorpheme.
Thus we will get the following pattern:31.
John promised persuaded Bill to leave32.
Bill was "promised:persuaded to leaveFor the 'surprised' cases, we assume that there are actuallytwo different verbs, with different semantics: the ordinarytransitive verb denotes an event, and behaves regularly:33.
John surprised Bil l34.
Bill was surprised by JohnThe other denotes a state and does not have an activeform: it subcategorises for "at" and is listed directly as apassive, with the appropriate semantics:35.
"Tile noise was surprising at Bill36.
Bill was surprised at the noise.37.
VP vform passive - -V'vform passive, subcat srprs P a t  UPNow we turn to the 'rely on" type of case.
Here the problemis that the missing NP is not a daughter of the VP: a fatalproblem for the metarule treatment.
Our solution is to passon the bounded UP dependency down through a PP:38.
VP:vform X. passive Y'V'vform X, subcat rivl PPipassive Y!38.
PP~passive X ~ P UP passive X iHowever, this is as far as the passive feature can go, unliketrue unbounded ependencies:39. a On John, you can dependb John, you can depend onc ,John can be depended ond John.
you can depend on the promises ofe ' John  can be depended on the promises ofThis can be simply achieved by not mentioning the passivefeature anywhere lse.A notorious problem for many analyses of passive is thecase of verbs like "sleep" and "walk" which appear to besubcategorised as intransitives, bur occur in passives likethe following:40.
This bed was slept in by the queen41.
The new grass shou\[dr( t  be.
walked over.309Apparently, an NP inside an optional modifier can be pas-sivised.
A simple account of this can be given by addingthe following rule:42.
VP\[vform passive, passive .-\] --*Vivform passive, subeat intrl P(We don't need to bother looking for an NP which is alwayspassive}.
This claims that any intransitive verb can behavein this fashion, which seems approximately correct:43.
The plane was first flown in last year44.
The film was snored through/sneered at bymost of the audienceHowever.
the putative PP modifier has been flattened, intoa P NP passive - sequence (i.e..just a P): this is in orderto facilitate the semantic treatment of this construction.and has no adverse syntactic effects.
It can be thought ofas an implementation of the "reanalysis" treatment of phe-nomena like this often advocated within the C;overnmentand Binding framework.This treatment has the added advantage of simplifyingour statement of affixation of the passive morpheme, whichnow might as well apply freely to any verb.
independentlyof its subcategorisation.
Of course, the result might not bewell-typed, as in the case of these intransitive verbs: wewill return to this matter when discussing their semanticsbelow.
Passive forms of other verbs which really don't pas-sivise can never figure in a VP.
given the rules, features andsubcategorisation regime we are assuming.A remaining problem is that of "double passives' like45.
a Advantage was taken of Johnb John was taken advantage of.There are several solutions one might explore here.
Wecould have a rule for just this handful of verbs of the form:(keep tabs on, lay siege to, take pity on)46.
VP vform X, passive YV'vform X. subcat idiom:NP passive YPPwhere the NP must be as required by the verb.
Thenfor the other passive we could assume a complex lexicalentry for "taken advantage of" which is subcategorised as anordinary transitive.
This is the suggestion made by manylinguistic treatments.
Within the feature system used hereit is in fact possible to do all this by brute force: assumethat the NP rules percolate up from their head a feature'nform' which has as value the actual stern of the noun.Then we have two rules:47.
VP;vform X, passive YV\[vform X, subcat idiom, needs Z\]NP:passive Y, nform ZPP48.
VPv form passive, passive - -V vform passive, subcat idiom, needs ZNPnform gPPpass ive  -Then this idiomatic sense of 'take" is entered in the lexi-con as V ....subcat idiom, needs advantage tc.
The activeform only gets parsed by rule 47, but both passive versionsare accepted.
(Incidentally, the idea of making different fea-tures share variable values can enforce correct verb-particlecombinations, particular required PP forms, etc).This concludes the list of some of the syntactic prob-lems faced by any analysis of verbal passives, and solvedby that presented here.
I have not to date encounteredany other examples of passives in English which will notyield to some combination of the methods used in the pre-ceding.
While I would be the first to concede that theseanalyses leave a great deal to be desired in terms of el-egance, explanatory power, and the other grand criteriaby which syntactic theorie~ can be j,Ld~ed, they are con-ceptua\]ly and computational\[y quite Mmpie and appear tobe descriptively adequate, a~though somewhat Iongwinded:a more economical grammatical  formalism might expressthings more succinctly.I have said nothing about adjectival passives: theseseem to be of two types, those that are already lexicalised asdistinct items, like 'closed', and those produced by (fairly)productive derivationat rules, where the subcategorisationof the verb (minus the passivised NP) is inherited by theadjective:49.
The door remained open  closed50.
The bottle remained empty filled with wineIt is simple to incorporate a \[exical treatment of this phe-nomenon into the analysis here.
and so I will say nothingmore about them (see Levin and Rappaport  1986 for a de-tailed study).Semant ics  of  Pass ivesI turn now to the semantics of passives.
We have beenassuming that the passive form of a verb, unless it is irreg-ular, is derived by a morphological rule of affixation.
Thesemantic effect of passive morphology on a verb is to switcharound its first two arguments.
Thus a transitive verb.
insimplified form.
would be represented as.
say:5l.
hit: Aeso (hit e s o)310(where a A is followed by a sequence of variables, thisis to be regarded as a shorthand for a 'curried' expression:i.e.
Axyz .
.
.
.
Ax Ay Ax ...).
The first variable in 51 isan "event' variable: I am assuming the Davidsonian(1980)analysis of verbs here: more on this below.
I assume anaffixation rule something like:52.
V - -VAf :  Af (V)Affixes are in general (polymorphic) things which take verbsto verbs: the relevant ones here introduce tenses and thepassive.
(i) past/ 'present= AVe (V e) /~, (past/present e)(ii) passive is of type {ez-(e~-(e~-a)))) ;,- (e~-(e~(e~-a)))).For transitive verbs passive amounts to AVexy (V e y x)Intuitively, tenses are predicates on events, and passive isan operator that has the effect of switching round the firsttwo (non-event) arguments of the verb it applies to.
Theeasiest way to see how all this fits together is to give samplederivations from the following little grammar (I will omitthe feature specifications on rules for simplicity):S ---* NP VP : -qe (NP (VP e)}: the event variable is bound at the top levelNP ~ Name : AP (P Name): the rule raises the typeVP ---* Vtr NP : Aea (NP lab (V o a b))): VPs are of type (e~ (e~t))VP - -  Vbe VP : Aea (Vbe e) " ((VP e) a); assume that "be' etc just carries tenseVP - -  VP PP : Aea ((VP e) a) ,' (ee  e); PP modification is treated as a predication; on the eventPP --* P NP : Ax (NP (Ay (P x y))); PPs are of type (e>-t}Given these rules, and lexical entries, a VP like 'hit Bill'will be translated, after some variable renaming and a fewrounds of beta reduction, as:53.
Aea (hit e a Bill) A (past e)Modifying this VP with a PP like 'in Cambridge'.
will givea VP with translation:54.
Aea (hit e a Bill) ," {.past e)?
(in e Cambridge)Incorporating this into a sentence with subject ' John' .
theabove rules will get us:55.
_~e (hit e John Bill) " (past e).
', (in e CambridgeJas a translation of ' John hit Bill in Cambridge':  "there wasa hitting by John of Bill event, in the past.
in Cambridge'In the case where we have a passive like "Bill was hit'.application of the passive affix to the verb produces:56.
!AVexy (V e y x)!
(Aeso (hit e s o))reducing to:57.
Aexy (hit e y x}The VP containing the empty passive NP will translateas:58, Aea (!AP (3i (P i))\](Ab (\[Aexy (hit e y x)l e a b)))Notice that the passive morpheme has changed the orderin which the verb expects its arguments.
This beta-reducestO:59.
Aea _:i (hit e i a)Incorporating this with the VP that introduced the passiveVP as complement to "was' gives us:60. ,~ea _:i (hit e i a) ; (past e)If we now combine this with the subject we will get, afterreduction:61.
_:el (hit e i Bill) "., (past e)'There was a past hitting by something of Bill event'.Notice that agent phrases for passives are treated in ex-actly the same way as any optional VP-modifying PP.
Soa VP like "was hit by John" - given some obvious assump-tions about the translation of agentive "by'.
and some wayof selecting the translation appropriate to the sentence (asopposed to a locative or temporal "by') - will translate as:62.
Aea _=i (hit e i a) ' (past e) .'
(agent e John)Notice that agentive PPs are not required to be adjacentto the passive verb.
correctly.
There is thus no syntacticconnection between the presence of an agent phrase andpassive morphology.
This means that a sentence like:63.
John hit Bill by \['redon the agent reading of the PP.
is treated as syntacticallywell-formed, but thematically incoherent in the same waythat:64.
John hit Bill with a hammer with a chair311is.
where the PPs both have instrument readings.We need an axiom achema to make the translations of' John hit Bill' and 'Bill was hit by John" inter-deducible.This is not something extra demanded by this analysis.however: it is already needed to establish the connectionbetween agents and certain types of events to account forthe interpretation of agent phrases in nominatisations wherethe passive is not involved:65.
The hitting of Bill by John was an accidentFor the most part.
this semantic analysis extends traight-forwardly to the other cases of passives discussed earlier.Their are three cases which need further comment,  how-ever.
For datives, I assume that the NP PP and NP NPforms have different subcategorisations which are relatedby an obvious redundancy rule in the lexicon.
However.
wecan assume that the verb has the same semantics in bothcases:66. kexyz (give e x y z)Associated with the rule that generates the ditransitiveform will be a 'dative'  operator, defined thus:67. kVexyz (V e x z y)This has the effect of switching round the final two argu-ments of the verb.
The rules will be:68.
VP ~ Vdat NP PP: Aex (PP (Az (NP (Ay (~dat  e x y z)))))69.
VP --  Vdm NPi NPj: Aex (NPj (Az (NPi (Ay (V e x y z)l)))where V is actually the dative operator appliedto VdmI assume that argument PPs like those associated withdatives translate as something having the type of an NP.rather than a PP, as befits their interpretation.
This canbe implemented simply by marking these PPs as argumentsand making the translation of a PP constituent so markedconsist simply of the daughter NP: the preposition con-tributes nothing to the meaning.
In the case of the Vdatrule, when the verb is in the passive, things are exactly anal-ogous to the earlier cases (modulo differences caused by the\['act hat the verb is of a different type): the passive mor-pheme simply switches round the arguments correspondingto subject and direct object.
In the case of the Vdat rule,when in the active, the dative operator shifts the final twoarguments, so that eventually the innermost erm contain-ing the verb will be of the form ... give e x z y.
In thepassive, what the dative operator applie?
to is of the form... give e y x z, because of the prior result of attaching thepassive affix.
Thus the result of the dative operator is ofthe form ... give e y z x.I will spare you the sequence of beta reductions involved.but with the rules and lexical entries given the right re-sults are achieved.
(For those with long linguistic memories.the sequence of lambda manipulations involved may seemstrongly reminiscent of the standard theory TG treatmentof constructions like this).The treatment of argument PPs here is also needed forthe 'rely on" type cases.
The semantics of the rule is simple:70.
VP --  Vr PP : Aex (PP ray (Vr e x y)))The PP here also has the type of NP.The final wrinkle concerns the appearance of intran-sitive verbs in passives.
Applying a passive affix to an in-transitive verb directly results in something that is not welltyped: intransitives are here of type (e>-(e>-t)).
The sim-plest course is to assume that under these circumstancesthe passive affix is simply ignored.
Then we can associatewith the relevant rule the semantics as follows:71.
VPpas --, Vintr P: Aex {_=i (Vintr i) .
(P e x))Given that tile meaning of "sleep' is Aex (sleep e x), this wiltproduce a translation of "This bed was slept in recently' as:72.
-eib (sleep e i) .'
(bed b) " {past e),' (in e b) :' (recent e)'There has been a past sleeping of something event andthat event was in this bed and recent'.While this may seem a little clumsy, it seems to produceacceptable results.
No other analysis \[ am familiar with hasanything at all to say in detail about the semantics of theseCaseS .ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe analysis presented here has been completely imple-mented within a parser- interpreter running in Cambridge.This work was supported under SERC grants GR, C '79l t4and GR/D/57713.
Thanks to Hiyan Alshawi.
Annabel Cor-mack.
Mike Gordon.
Bob Moore.
and Graham Russell.312REFERENCESBach, E 1980 In de/ense o/ Passive, Linguistics andPhilosophy, 3, 297-341Bresnan, J.
1982 The Passive in Lezical Theory.
in her(ed.)
The Mental Representation of GrammaticalRelations, Cambridge, Mass: MIT PressBresnan, J and Kaplan.
R. 1982 Lezical Functional Gram-mar, in Bresnan ed., op.cit.Davidson.
D. 1980 The logical form of action sentences.reprinted in his Essays on Actions and Events.
Oxford:Clarendon Press, (originally appeared 1967)Gazdar, G., Klein.
E.. Pullum.
G..
Sag, \[.
1985 Gen-eralised Phrase Structure Grammar,  Oxford: BasilBlackwellKarttunnen, L. 1986 D-PATR: a development environ-me,t for unification-based grammars, in Coling 86: Bonn,AC L p74-80Kilbury, J.
1986 Category Cooecurrence Restrictions andthe Elimznat,on of Metarules, in Coling 86: Bona, ACL.p50-53.Russell, G., Pulman, S. Ritchie, G., Black, A.
1986 Adictionary and morphological nalyser for English.
in Col-ing 86: Bonn, ACL, p277-279313
