SUBJECT ERASING AND PRONOMINAL IZAT ION IN 1TALIAN TEXT GENERATIONFiammetta NamerLADLUniversitd Paris VII2, place Jussieu75251 Paris Cedex 05FranceABSTRACTCertain Romance languages such as Italian, Spanish andPortuguese allow the subject o be erased in tensedclauses.
This paper studies subject erasing in theframework of a text generation system for Italian.
Wewill prove that it is first necessary to try topronominalize the subject.
Therefore, we are led to studythe synthesis of subject and complement personalpronouns.
In Romance languages, personal pronounsraise many syntactic problems, whose solution iscomplex in a generation system.
We will see thatpronominalization plays a fundamental role in the orderin which the elements of a clause are synthesized, andconsequently in the synthesis of this clause.
Moreover,the synthesis of a clause must ake into account the factthat subject erasing and the synthesis of complementsare phenomena which depend on each other.
Thecomplex algorithm that must be used for the synthesisof a clause will be illustred in various examples.1 Presentation of the generation systemIn a generation system, two questions must beanswered: "What to say?"
(in order to decide on thecontent of the message to be produced) and "How to sayit?"
(producing the text which carries this content).
Weare interested only in the "How to say it?"
question.
Wehave adapted for Italian the generation systemdevelopped by L.Danlos (1987a,1987b) which producestexts in French and English.
This generator includes twocomponents: the strategic omponent and the syntacticcomponent.1) The strategic omponent takes both conceptual ndlinguistic decisions.
It selects a discourse structurewhich determines the order of information, the numberand form of the Sentences of the text to be generated.
Itreturns a text template which is a list of the form:(Sentl Punctl ... Semi Puncti ... Senm Puncm)where Puncti s a punctuation mark and Senti a sentencetemplate.
For the sake of simplification, only sentencetemplates which are clause templates without adverbialphrases will be considered here.
This means thatadverbial phrases (e.g.
subordinate clauses) andcoordinations of sentence templates are put aside (L.Danlos 1987b).
In a clause template (without adverbialphrases), which will be noted CI, the elements are in thecanonical order.subject - verb - dir_object - prep_object(s)In particular, the subject appears always before the verbalthough the subject can be placed after the verb inItalian:Ha telefonato Gianni (Gianni has phoned)Subject-verb inversion has been described by L. Rizzi(1982) as a phenomenon which is correlated withsubject erasing.
This approach may be suitable for ananalysis ystem which has to identify the subject of aclause.
However it is not for a generation system whichhas to synthesize an identified subject.This is an example of text template:(1) ( CCI1 (:subject MAN1) (:verb amare )Cdir_object MISS1)) .CC12 (:subject MAN2) (:verb odiare )Cdir_object MISS2)) .
)It is made up of two clause templates Cll and C12.CI1 includes the tokens MAN1 and MISS1, C12the tokens MAN2 and MISS2.
These tokens may bedefined as follows:MAN1 =: PERSON MISS1 =: PERSONNAME :Max NAME :LiaSEX : mase SEX : fernMAN2 =: PERSON MISS2 =: PERSONNAME : Ugo NAME :EvaSEX :masc SEX : fern2) The syntactic component synthesizes a text templateinto a text.
From the text template (1), it produces thefollowing text if the verbs are conjugated in the presenttense:Max area Lia.
Ugo odia Eva.
(Max loves Lia.
Ugo hates Eva)Given the following simplified text emplate, wherethe functional categories (eg.
:CI, :subject) are omittedfor the sake of readibility:(2) (MAN1 amare MISS2.
MAN2 odiare MISS2)(MANI love MISS2.
MAN2 hate MISS2)the syntactic omponent synthesizes the first CI as:Max area Eva.
(Max  loves Eva)- 225  -Then it synthesizes the second one according to the left-hand context, i.e.
the first synthesized clause.
Amongother things, it computes that the second occurrence ofMISS2 can be synthesized asa personal pronoun:Max area Eva.
Ugo la odia.
(Max loves Eva.Ugo hates her)The different steps required for the synthesis of apersonal pronoun will be described in section 5.1.
In thesame way, the synthesis of the simplified text template:(3) (MAN2 essere cauivo.
MAN2 odiare MISS2)(MAN2 be nasty.
MAN2 hate MISS2)gives the following text in which the subject position isempty (see section 5.2):Ugo d cattivo.
Odia Eva.
(Ugo is nasty.
He hates Eva)and the synthesis of the text emplate:(4) (MAN2 picchiare MISS2.
MAN2 odiare MISS2)(MAN2 beat MISS2.
MAN2 hate MISS2)gives the following text, in which the subject positionis empty and the direct object synthesized asa personalpronoun:Ugo picchia Eva.
La odia.
(Ugo beats Eva.
He hates her)2 Synthesis of a dause templateIn a generation system producing texts in Romancelanguages, a syntactic omponent has to handle threedifferent orders for the synthesis of a CI:- The order in which the elements appear in a CI (thisorder is supposed here to be the canonical order).- The order in which the elements of a C1 must besynthesized (see below).- The order in which the synthesized lements must beplaced in the final clause (eg.
for Italian, subject-verbinversion).
This order will not be discussed here.The order in which the elements of a CI must besynthesized is determined by "non-local dependencies"and "cross dependencies" (L.Danlos & F.Namer 1988,L.Danlos 1988).
A non-local dependency is to be foundwhen the synthesis of an element X depends on that ofanother element Y.
A cross dependency is to be foundwhen the synthesis of X depends on that of Y and whenthe synthesis of Y depends on that of X.
For example,there is a cross dependency between the synthesis of adirect object and that of the verb 1.
First, let us showthat he synthesis of the direct object depends upon thatof the verb.
Consider the following text template:(5) (MAN1 e MISS1 essersi sposati eri.
MAN2 adorareMISS1.
)(MAN1 and MISSI get married yesterday.
MAN2 adore MISS1.
)The pronominalisation f the second occurrence ofMISS 1 is attempted.
The foreseen pronoun is la, which1 Synthesizing a verb means conjugating it.is the feminine singular form of a direct object pronoun.This pronoun must be placed irectly before the verb andmust be elided into l' since the verb adorare conjugatedin the past begins with the vowel a. However,synthesizing the second occurrence of MISS1 as l' leadsto an ambiguous text:Max e Lia si sono sposati eri.
Ugo l'adorava.since 1' could also be the result of the elision of !o,which is the masculine singular form of a preverbaldirect object pronoun.
The interpretation of this text iseither:.or:Max and Lia got married yesterday.
Ugo adored her.Max and Lia got married yesterday.
Ugo adored him.The second occurrence of MISS1 must therefore besynthesized not as a personal pronoun, but as a nominalphrase:Max e Lia si sono sposati eri.
Ugo adorava Lia.
(Max and Lia got married yesterday.
Ugo adored Lia.
)This example shows 1) that the synthesis of the directobject depends upon that of the verb, 2) that elision,which is a morphological operation, could not behandled in the final step of the syntactic omponent ofthe generator.On the other hand, the synthesis of the verb dependson that of the direct object, since a verb conjugated inthe perfect tense agrees in number and gender with thedirect object if the latter is synthesized as a preverbalpronoun:I ragazzi sono morti.
Ugo li ha uccisi(The boys are dead.
Ugo  killed them)Le ragazze sono morte.
Ugo le ha uccise(The girls are dead.
Ugo killed them)The cross dependency between the verb and thedirect object can be handled with the following sequenceof partial syntheses:1 - Partial synthesis (conjugation) of the verb,without taking into account a possible agreementbetween apast participle and a direct object pronoun.2 Synthesis of the direct object, eventuallyaccording to the first letter of the verb.3 - Second partial synthesis of the verb: genderagreement with the direct object, if a) the verb isconjugated in a compound tense, b) the direct object hasbeen synthesized as a personal pronoun.The phenomena of non-local and cross dependenciesmake that the synthesis of a CI requires a complexalgorithm which has nothing to do with a linearprocessus where the elements of a CI are synthesizedfrom left to right.
We are going to show that thesynthesis of the subject involves also a number of non-local and cross dependencies where pronominalizationplays a fundamental role.- 226-3 Introduction to subject erasingFirst of all, it should be noted that subject erasing doesnot affect he other elements of the clause: the verb, forexample, always agrees with its subject even if erased.A subject can be erased only if it can bepronominalized since the synthesis of a subject okenalways comes under one of the three following cases:1) The token is neither pronominalizable nor erasable.2) It is both pronominalizable and erasable.3) It is pronominalizable but not erasable.In other words, there exists no CI in which the subjecttoken is erasable yet not pronominalizable.1) In the text template:(6) (MISS1 e MISS2 tornare da Londra.
MISS2 impararel'inglese.
)(MISSI and MISS2 be back from London.
MISS2 learn English)the second occurrence of the token MISS2 can be neitherpronominalized 2 (a):(a) *Lia ed Eva sono tornate da Londra.
Lei ha imparatol'inglese.
(*Lia and Eva are back from London.
She has learnt English)nor erased (b):Co) *Lia ed Eva sono tornate da Londra.
Ha imparatol'inglese.
(*Lia and Eva are back from London.
She has learnt English)2) In the text template:(7) (MISS2 tornare.
MISS2 stare bene.
)(MISS2 be back.
MISS2 be well.
)the second occurrence of MISS2 can be eitherpronominalized (a) or erased (b):(a)Eva ~ tornataJ.~ei sta bene.
(Eva is back.
She, she is well)(b)Eva ~ tornata.
Sta bene.
(Eva is back.
She is well)The presence of the pronoun lei in the second clause of(a) marks insistence on the entity the pronounrepresents.3) In the text template:(8) (MISS2 e MAN2 tornare da Londra.
MISS2/mpararel'inglese.
)(MISS2 and MAN2 be back from London.
MISS2 learn English.
)the second occurrence of MISS2 can be pronominalized(a) but not erased Co):(a) Eva e Ugo sono tornati da Londra.
Lei ha imparatol'inglese.
(Eva and Ugo are back from London.
She has learnt English)2 An asterisk * placed in front of a text means that thistext is unacceptable because ambiguous.
(b) *Eva e Ugo sono tornati da Londra.
Ha imparatol'inglese.
(Eva and Ugo are back from London.
(She+ he) has leamtEnglish)From the three previous examples, it must be clear thatthere is no C1 in which a subject oken is erasable yetno pronominalizable.Dialogue subject pronouns (i.e.
first and secondperson) come under case 2 provided that the verb is notconjugated in the subjunctive 3.
A verb conjugated in anon-subjunctive form indicates always the number andperson of its subject 4.
As a result, a dialogue subjectpronoun is always erased in non-subjunctive clauses:(9) Verrai domani.
(You will come tomorrow)unless the speaker wishes to insist on the entity thepronoun represents:(10)Tu verrai domani.
(You, you will come tomorrow)On the other hand, third person singular subjectpronouns come under either case 1 or case 2 or case 3.For human entities, there are two pronominal forms,one masculine lui, and the other feminine lei 5.
For nonhuman entities, there are also two singular pronominalforms: esso (masculine) and essa (feminine).
Thereforeerasing one of these four forms entails the loss ofinformation about both the gender of the subject and itshuman nature (i.e.
human or non-human).
This loss ofinformation can give rise to ambiguity.Third person plural subject pronouns also comeunder either case 1 or case 2 or case 3.
For humanentities, there is one pronominal form loro used for bothmasculine and feminine.
For non human entities, thereare two forms: essi (masculine) and esse (feminine).Erasing a third person plural subject pronoun thus raisessimilar problems than erasing a third person singularsubject pronoun.
Therefore subject erasing will beillustrated only with third person singular tokenexamples.3 Only clauses where the verb is conjugated in theindicative will be studied here.4L.Rizzi (1982) associates morphological properties (i.e.number & person) to the verbal suffix.
These propertiesare activated when the subject position is empty.
Thesuffix then acts as subject pronoun.5 Two other forms can be used: egli (masculine singular)and ella (feminine singular).
These forms have the samebehaviour as lui and lei, they are simply used at a moreliterary stilistic level.
Therefore only the forms lui andlei will be used in this paper.A sentential subject can be pronominalized as thepronoun ci6.
The synthesis of sentential subjects willnot be discussed here.- 227 -4 Eras ing  a th i rd  person  singular subject whichcan be pronominalizedThe subject pronoun is always erasable in examplessuch as (7) where the left-hand context of the subjectwhose erasing is foreseen contains only one singulartoken.
Apart from this trivial ease, let us examine whenerasing a subject pronoun is possible, i.e.
wheninformation about the gender of the subject and itshuman ature are both recoverable.4.1 Recoverabi l i ty of the human nature of the erasedpronounThe human nature of an erased subject pronoun isrecoverable when the verbal predicate lakes only ahuman subject or only a non-human subject.
InUgo ha piantato un ciliegio.
Esso fruttifica.
(Ugo planted acherry-tree.
It fructifies.
)the non-human subject pronoun esso can be erased:Ugo ha piantato un ciliegio.
Fruttifica.
(Ugo planted acherry-tree.
It fructifies.
)since the verb fruttif icare can take only a non-humansubject:*(Ugo + lui) frunifica.On the other hand, in(*0dgo + he) fructifies)Ugo ha piantato un ciliegio.
Esso ~ ammirevole.
(Ugo planted a cherry-tree.
It is admirable.
)the pronoun esso cannot be erased:*Ugo ha piantato un ciliegio.
E" ammirevole.
(Ugo planted acherry-tree.
(It+he) isadmirable.
)since essere ammirevole takes both human and non-human subject:(Ugo + lui + questo ciliegio + esso) ~ ammirevole.
( (Ugo + he + this cherry-tree + it) is admirable)4.2 Recoverability of the gender ofthe erased pronounTo study when the gender of the subject is recoverable,we will suppose that the human nature of the subject isrecoverable.
In the examples below, the verb predicatecan take only human subjects.4.2.1 The gender of the erased pronoun is marked byanother element of the clauseIf the gender of the subject pronoun whose erasing isforeseen is marked by another element of the clause,then erasing this pronoun does not give rise toambiguity.
Consider the discourses (11) and (12) inwhich erasing the feminine singular pronoun lei (subjectof the second clause) is attempted:(l l )Ugo non vedrh pifi Eva.
Lei ~ stata condannataall' ergastolo.
(Ugo will not see Eva anymore.
She's been condemned forlife)(12)Ugo non vedrd pifi Eva.
Lei d in prigione peromicidio.
(Ugo will not see Eva anymore.
She's in jail for murder)Erasing the subject pronoun in (11) does not give rise toambiguity, since the verb marks the gender of thesubject 6.
Ugo, which is masculine, is thus a prohibitedantecedent.
The only possible antecedent of the erasedsubject is Eva and the following discourse where lei iserased is unambiguous:Ugo non vedr~ pifi Eva.
E" stata condannata ll'ergastolo.
(Ugo will not see Eva anymore.
She's been condemned forlife)On the other hand, if the pronoun lei is erased in (12),the information about subject gender is lost sinceneither the verb nor any other element of the clauseindicates it.
The antecedents of the erased subject areUgo and Eva.
The following discourse where lei iserased is ambiguous:*Ugo non vedr& pi~ Eva.
E" in prigione per omicidio.
(Ugo will not see Eva anymore.
(He + she) is in jail for murder)Subject pronoun erasing is therefore prohibited.The elements of a clause that mark the subjectgender are the following:- either a nominal or adjectival attribute which isinflected for genderT:Ugo non vedr~ pifi Eva.
E' troppo cattivo(Ugo will not see Eva anymore.
He is too nasty)- or the verb, if it satisfies one of the followingconditions:a) it is conjugated in the passive (see example (11))b) it is conjugated in a compound tense with theverb essere (be):Ugo non vedrit pid Eva.
E' andata in Giappone.
(Ugo will not see Eva anymore.
She's gone to Japan)C) it is conjugated in a compound tense at thepronominal voice, for example because there is areflexive pronoun:Ugo non baller~ con Eva stasera.
Si ~ ferito.
(Ugo will not dance with Eva tonight.
He's wounded himself)6 The suffix a of its past participle marks the femininesingular.
Recall that a past participle agrees in genderand number with the subject when the verb is conjugatedwith the auxiliary essere (be).7 Two classes of adjectives must be distinguished: thosewhich are inflected for gender, eg.cattivo: mast.sing / cattiva: fern.sing.
(nasty)and those which are not, eg.gentile: masc.
sing.
& fern.
sing.
(nice)Several classes of nouns must be also distinguished.- 228  -4.2.2 The gender of the erased pronoun is computablefrom the synthesis of  other elements of the clauseWe are going to show that erasing a subject pronoundepends on the synthesis of complements of the clause(i.e.
direct object and prep-objects) because of theconstraint of no-coreferentiality between a subject and acomplement personal pronoun.
This constraint is basedon the fact that a complement which is coreferential tothe subject is synthesized as a reflexive pronoun.Therefore, in a clause such as Eva le ha sparato (Evashot her), the indirect complement feminine singularpersonal pronoun le cannot be coreferential to thefeminine singular subject Eva because if it were itwould be a reflexive pronoun: Eva si d sparata (Eva shotherself).
Let us illustrate the use of this constraint forerasing a subject pronoun with the following text:(13)Eva ~ stata uccisa da Ugo.
Lui le ha sparato durante lanotte.
(Eva was killed by Ugo.
He shot her during the night)In (13), there is no subject attribute and the verb isconjugated with the auxilary avere (have).
Therefore thesubject gender is only marked in the subject pronounlu/.
However if this pronoun is erased, the resulting textis not ambiguous:Eva ~ stata uccisa da Ugo.
Le ha sparato durante la notte.
(Eva was killed by Ugo.
He shot her during the night)The only interpretation (the only possible antecedent) ofthe erased subject is Ugo.
The indirect complementpronoun le can only have a feminine singularantecedent, here Eva.
The subject and this pronouncannot be coreferent.
Therefore the antecedent of theerased subject is the only other human which appears inthe context: Ugo.Similarly, consider text (14):(14) Ugo non ama pifi Eva.
Lui l'ha abbandonata.
(Ugo does not love Eva anymore.
He abandoned her)The direct object pronoun l' (elided form of themasculine singular lo or of the feminine singular la )does not indicate the gender of its antecedent.
However,this gender is marked in the feminine past participleabbandonata s.The pronoun l' thus refers to Eva.
Sincethe antecedent to this pronoun is necessarily differentfrom that of the subject, Eva cannot be an antecedent ofthe subject.
Erasing the subject pronoun does not giverise to ambiguity:Ugo non area pifi Eva.
L'ha abbandonata.
(138o does not love Eva anymore.
He abandoned her)8 Recall that the past participle of a verb conjugated withthe auxiliary avere agrees in gender and number with itsdirect object if this object is in preverbal position.5 Synthesis of a third person singular subject okenSince a third person singular subject token can besynthesized as an empty element only if itspronominalization is possible, the synthesis of such atoken will take place as follows:If the token has never been mentioned (see 5.1.b):synthesis of a nominal phrase (not described here)Else check if pronominalizing it is allowedin this case, check if erasing it is allowedif it is, synthesis of an empty subject,else synthesis of a subject pronounelse redescription or repetition of the token (notdescribed here).We present below:1) the different steps to be gone through for thesynthesis of a subject pronoun, and more generally, forthe synthesis of a personal pronoun.2) the peculiar operations which are necessary inItalian for synthesizing a subject pronoun and erasing iL5.1 Synthesis of a personal pronounThe list of operations required for the synthesis of apersonal pronoun is as follows:a) If a token refers to the speaker(s) or the hearer(s),it must be synthesized as a first or second personpronoun.
The only operation to be performed is then thecomputation of this dialogue pronoun.b) Otherwise, we consider synthesizing a token as athird person personal pronoun only if it has already beensynthesized (because it occurs in a previous clausetemplate).
In other words, we do not consider the leftpronominalization phenomena 9.
Determining whether atoken which has already been synthesized has to besynthesized asa pronoun requires the following steps tobe gone through:1 ?
Compute the form of the foreseen pronoun.
Theform of a third person pronoun may depend on itssyntactical position (subject, direct object .... ), on thenumber and human nature of the token (this semanticinformation is given in the token definition) and on thegender of the nominal phrase of the synthesis of theprevious occurrence of the token.
Gender in Italian iseither masculine or feminine, and it is lexical and not9 In fact, the left pronominalization phenomena do rarelytake place in a system of text generation, except in thesynthesis of the first sentence, as in:Each time he feels bad, U&o is preoccupied.where the pronoun he refers to Ugo, right-handantecedent (see among others T.Reinhard (1883)).
In then th sentence, the left pronominalization is generallyforbidden, as shown in the following example:Max is feverish.
Each time he feels bad, U8o is preoccupied.The pronoun he of the second sentence can only refer toMax (left-hand antecedent) and not to Ugo (right-handantecedent).
As our study is concerned with the synthesisof the n th (n > 1) CI of a text template, we put aside leftpronominalization phenomena.- 229 -semantic information.
Let us consider the followingdefinition of the token TABLI:TABL1 --: TABLENUMBER: 1DEFINITE: yesIt can be synthesized asa feminine nominal phrase: latavola (the table) or as a masculine nominal phrase: iltavolo (the table).
The gender of a pronoun is usuallythe same as the gender of the previous occurrence of thetoken:(15) La tavola ~ rotta.
Ugo la ripara.ll tavolo ~ rotto.
Ugo Io ripara.
(The table is broken.
Ugo repairs it)T Compute the list L1 of tokens that have beensynthesized in nominal phrases, the morphologicalfeatures (i.e.
gender and number) of which arecompatible with the form of the foreseen pronounprovided by Step 1 ?.
If L1 has only one element, go tostep 5 ?
with L3 = L1; otherwise:3 ?
Compute the sublist L2 of L1 that contains theelements that are semantically compatible with theforeseen pronoun.
For the pronouns whose formindicates the human nature of the antecedent (eg.
thesubject pronoun lui indicates a human antecedent), hesemantically compatible tokens are those with the righthuman ature.
Moreover, the semantic features of eachnon human token of L1 may be checked on with regardto the relevant constraints of the verb.
For example, in:The book is on the table.
It was published yesterday.the subject of the verb publish used in the passive mustbe something publishable.
This semantic information isnot compatible with the token which represents thetable, but only with the one which represents he book;,the latter is thus the only element which is semanticallycompatible with the pronoun it.
If L2 has only oneelement go to step 5* with L2 = L3; otherwise:4 ?
Compute the sublist L3 of L2 that contains theelements which are syntactically compatible with theforeseen pronoun.
An example of coreferential syntacticincompatibility is the constraint of no-coreferentialitybetween a subject and a complement personal pronoun(see section 4.2.2).
Another one is the followingconstraint:If a personal pronoun synthesizes the subject of asentential c ause which must be reduced to an infinitiveform when its subject is equal to the subject of the mainclause, then this pronoun does not refer to the subject ofthe main clause, because if it did, the sentential clausewould be reduced to an infinitive form (L.Danlos1988):*Mary i wants that Maryileaves --> Maryiwants toleave.
An illustration of this constraint is that in Marywants that she leaves, the pronoun she cannot refer toMary.5* As a first approach, if L3 contains one element,synthesizing a pronoun is possible since this synthesisinvolves no ambiguity.
Otherwise the foreseen pronounis not synthesized.
Counting the number of elements inL3 is not enough in determining the possibility ofsynthesizing or not a pronoun: pragmaticalconsiderations, focus (C.Sidner 1981, B.Grosz, 1982)and parallelism (L.Danlos, 1987a) are phenomena thatmust be taken into account.
They are not studied here.As an illustration of these five steps, consider thefollowing text template:(16) (MISS1 e MISS2 tornare.
MAN2 dare un bacio aMISS2.
)(MISSI and MISS2 be back.
MAN2 give a kiss to MISS2)The synthesis of the second occurrence of MISS2 as apronoun is attempted.1 ?
The form of the preverbal dative pronoun is le, thirdperson feminine singular.2 ?
L1 contains the tokens which appear in the left-handcontext that have been synthesized asfeminine singularnominal phrases, i.e.
L1 = (MISS I, MISS2).3 ?
All the elements of L1, which are humans, aresemantically compatible with the foreseen pronoun, soL2=L1.4 ?
All the elements of L2 are syntactically compatiblewith the foreseen pronoun, so L3--L2.5 ?
L3 contains more than one element, so the pronounis not synthesized.
The resulting discourse will be:Lia e Eva sono tornate.
Ugo ha dato an bacio a Eva.
(Lia and Eva are back.
Ugo gave a kiss to Eva)Another illustration is given by the following texttemplate where TABL1 is supposed to be synthesizedas the masculine nominal phrase il tavolo:(17) (MAN1 riparare TABL1.
MAN2 dare un bacio aMAr~t.
)(MANI repair TABLI.
MAN2 give a kiss to MAN1.
)The synthesis of the second occurrence of MAN1 as apronoun is attempted:1 ?
The form of the preverbal dative pronoun is gli, thirdperson masculine singular.2 ?
L1 contains the tokens of the left-hand context thathave been synthesized as masculine singular nominalphrases, i.e.
LI=(MAN1, TABL1, MAN2).3 ?
TABL1, which is not human, is semanticallyincompatible with the pronoun gli since the dativecomplement of dare un bacio must be human, henceL2=(MAN1,MAN2).4 ?
MAN2, which is the subject of the second CI, issyntactically incompatible with gli because of  theconstraint of no-coreferentiality between the subject anda complement personal pronoun.
Hence L3f(MAN1).Since L3 contains only one element, he pronoun can beformed:Max ha riparato il tavolo.
Ugo gli ha dato un bacio.
(Max repaired the table.
Ugo gave him a kiss)- 230-5.2 Synthesizing and erasing an Italian subject pronounThe synthesis of an Italian subject pronoun follows theoperations described above, except that erasing thepronoun is attempted atthe same time, as shown below:1) A list L'I is computed parallely to the computationof the list L1 (see step 2" of the section 5.1).
L'Icontains the morphological ntecedents of the foreseenerased pronoun.
Two cases must be distinguished (seesection 4.2.1):a There is an element X in the clause which marksthe subject gender (see example (11)).
In this case, L'Icontains third person singular tokens of the same genderas this pronoun.
In other words, L'I--L1.b There is no element X which marks the gender ofthe pronoun whose erasing is foreseen (see example(12)).
The morphological ntecedents are then the tokensof the third person feminine and masculine singular(L'I :~ LI).If L'I has only one element (this means that LI has alsoonly one element) go to step 4) with L'3=L'I;otherwise:2) A sub-list L'2 of L'I is computed parallely to thecomputation of the list L2 (step 3 ?
of the section 5.1).L'2 contains the tokens which are semanticallycompatible to the foreseen erased subject.
If L'2 (andhence L2) contains only one element, go to step 4) withL'2=L'3; otherwise:3) If the list L3 (step 4 ?
of the section 5.1) contains10 , , only one element , the sub-list L 3 of L 2 is computed.L'3 contains the tokens which are syntacticallycompatible to the foreseen erased subject.
As shown insection 4.2.2, computing the list L'3 of the syntacticantecedents of the pronoun whose erasing is foreseen ina CI depends on the synthesis of other tokens in C1.4) Pronoun erasing is usually allowed if list L'3contains only one element.6 Example of the synthesis of a dause templateConsider the following text template, where LOC1 isto be synthesized as the nominal phrase il bosco (thewood):(18) (MAN1 vedere MISS1 in LOCI.
MAN1 abbracciareMISS1)(MAN1 see MISSI in LOCI .
MANI kiss MISS1)To begin with, suppose the verbs are conjugated in acompound tense (i.e.
perfect).
The synthesis of the firstCI is then:Max ha visto Lia nel bosco.
(Max saw Lia in the wood)10 If L3 contains more than one element, the subjecttoken is not pronominalizable and thus not erasable.Let us examine the synthesis of the second CI.
First, apartial synthesis of the subject MAN1 is carried out.Since MAN1 has already been mentioned, bothsynthesizing this token as a pronoun and erasing thispronoun are attempted.6.1 First partial synthesis of the subject MANI:1) The form of the foreseen pronoun is lu/, humanmasculine singular.2) The list L1 contains the tokens which appear inthe left-hand context hat have been synthesized asmasculine singular nominal phrases, i.e.LI=(MANI,LOCI).The list L'I contains the tokens that have beensynthesized as both masculine and feminine nominalphrases, since there is no element in the CI whichmarks the sub jec t  gender ;  soL'I=(MAN1,LOC1 ,MISS 1).3) LOCI is semantically incompatible with thepronoun lui which can have only human antecedents.
SoL2=(MAN1).LOCI is also semantically incompatible with an erasedpronoun since the subject of the verb abbracciare mustbe human, so L'2=(MAN1,MISS 1).4) As L2=L3--(MAN1) contains only one element,the synthesis of the pronoun lui is possible.
Thecomputation ofL'3 depends upon the synthesis of otherelements of the CI.
Therefore the final synthesis of thesubject (i.e.
the decision to erase the pronoun luiaccording to the number of elements of L'3) ispostponed.6.2 First partial synthesis of the verb abbracciareThis verb is conjugated at the third person singular ofthe perfect ense with the auxiliary avere.
In this firstpartial synthesis of the verb the possible agreement witha direct object is postponed.
Thus the result of thispartial synthesis is the form ha abbracciato where thepast participle is in the masculine singular form whichis the default value.6.3 Synthesis of the direct object MISS1The token MISS1 has been mentioned in the previousCI, so'synthesizing it as a personal pronoun isattempted:1) Because of the conjugation of the verb, thefeminine singular direct object pronoun la must beelided into l'.2) The form l' does not mark the gender.
However,the gender of the pronoun la will be marked in the pastparticiple of the verb which is conjugated with theauxiliary avere.
Therefore, L1 contains the tokens thathave been synthesized as feminine singular nominalphrases, i.e.
LI=(MISS1).
Since L1 contains only oneelement, he pronoun l' is synthesized.
Let us underlinethat the synthesis of the pronoun l" is based only uponmorphological criteria and thus does not involve theconstraint of no-coreferntiality between the subject and acomplement.
Therefore this constraint can be used forthe second (and las0 partial synthesis of the subject asshown in 6.5.~-Q - 231 -6A Second (and last) partial synthesis of the verbSince the direct object pronoun 1' has been synthesized,the past participle agrees in gender and number with thispronoun.
The final result of the synthesis of the verb is:ha abbracciata where the past participle is in thefeminine singular form.6.5 Second (and last) partial synthesis of the subjectAt this stage, the second CI of (18) is foreseen to besynthesized as either Lui l?ha abbracciata or L'haabbracciata.
The last step to be carried out is thecomputation of the sub-list L'3 of L'2=(MAN1,MISS 1)to determine if the subject pronoun can be erased.
Sincethe direct object MISS1 has been synthesized as thepronoun l' only thanks to morphological criteria, theconstraint of no-coreferentiality between a subject and adirect object can be used to state that MISS1 is asyntactically incompatible antecedent for the foreseenerased subject pronoun.
So L'3 contains only oneelement: MAN1 and the subject pronoun can be erased.The synthesis of the second CI of (18) is:L'ha abbracciata.
(He kissed her)Now, suppose that the verbs of (18) are conjugatedin a simple tense (eg.
present) and examine again thesynthesis of the second CI.
The reader will check thatthe direct object MISS1 can be synthesized as thepronoun l' not thanks to morphological criteria (there isno past participle) but thanks to the constaint of no-coreferentiality.
Therefore this constraint cannot be usedagain in computing L'3.
ConsequentlyL'3=L'2=(MAN1,MISS1) and the subject pronouncannot be erased; the synthesis of this C1 is:Lui l'abbraccia.
(He kisses her)7 Future researchThe sequential order of the operations for the synthesisof a C1 we have just described makes that the constraintof no-coreferentiality s called on as a priority for thesynthesis of a complement, and if not used for anycomplement, it is called on for subject erasing.
Ourfuture research (L. Danlos, F. Namer, forthcoming)leads us to design a more global approach in which theconstraint of no-coreferentiality s not called on as apriority for a complement.
This approach will allow thesecond CI of (18) (with the verb conjugated in thepresent) to be synthesized not only as Lui l'abbracciabut also asAbbraccia la ragazza.
(He kisses the gid)where the subject is erased and the direct object notpronominalized because the constraint of no-coreferentiality is used for the subject and not for thecomplement.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSI wish to thank Laurence Danlos for her constant helpand her important contributions to the work reportedhere.REFERENCESDanlos, L., 1987a, The Linguistic Basis of TextGeneration, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Danlos, L., 1987b, A French and English SyntacticComponent for Generation, Natural LanguageGeneration: New results in Artificial Intelligence,Psychology and Linguistics , Kempen G. ed.,Dortrecht/Boston, Martinus Nijhoff Publishers.Danlos, L., Namer, F., 1988, Morphology and CrossDependencies in the Synthesis of Personal Pronouns inRomance Languages, Proceedings of COLING-88,Budapest.Danlos, L., 1988, Some Pronominalization Issues inGeneration of Texts in Romance Languages, ElectronicDictionaries and Automata in ComputationalLinguist ics,  D. Perrin Ed., Springler-Verlagpublications, Berlin.Danlos, L., Namer, F., forthcoming, A GlobalApproach for the Synthesis of a Personal Pronoun,Computers and Translation.Grosz, B., 1982, Focusing and Description in NaturalLanguage Dialogues, Elements of DiscourseUnderstanding, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Reinhart, T., 1983, Anaphora and SemanticInterpretation, Croom Helm, London.Sidner, C., 1981, Focusing for Interpretation ofPronoun, American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics, vol.
7, no 4.Rizzi, L., 1982, Issues in Italian Syntax , Forispublications, Dortrecht/Cinnaminson.- 232  -
