THE ORGANIZATION OF THE ROSETTA GRAMMARSJan OdijkPhilips Research Laboratories, P.O.
Box 80.0005600 JA Eindhoven, The NetherlandsABSTRACTIn this paper the organization of the gram-mars in the Rosetta machine translation systemis described and it is shown how this organizationmakes it possible to translate between words of dif-ferent syntactic ategories in a systematic way.
Itis also shown how the organization chosen makes itpossible to translate 'small clauses' into full clausesand vice versa.
The central concept worked outhere in some detail is the concept of 'partial iso-morphy'  between subgrammars.
The system as de-scribed here has been implemented and is currentlybeing tested.1 ROSETTAIn this section I will mention some essential prop-erties of the Rosetta machine translation system.For more extensive descriptions of this system Irefer to Landsbergen(1987), Appelo & Landsber-gen(1986), Appelo, Fellinger & Landsbergen(1987)and Leermakers & Rous(1986).The Rosetta machine translation system is aninterlingual machine translation system based onMontague Grammar and developed at Philips Re-search Laboratories in Eindhoven for Dutch, En-glish and Spanish.
The grammars used in Rosettaare computational variants of Montague Grammarand are called M-grammars.Rules in M-grammars, called M-rules, operateon syntactic surface trees.
If a certain string str isassociated with a syntactic tree of category C thenotation C(str) will be used.An M-grammar in Rosetta is subdivided into anumber of subgrammars.
Each subgrammar is arule package and is defined by specifying a head(the category of a designated argument from theimport for the subgrammar), export (the categoriesof the syntactic trees yielded by the subgrammar)and a control expression that indicates in whichorder M-rules must be applied.In Rosetta31 a distinction is made betweenmeaningful M-rules, called rules (that correspondto a meaning operation), and meaningless rules,called transformations (that do not correspond toa meaning operation).M-grammars are reversible.
Because of this fact,the translation relation between two sentences canbe illustrated by showing their derivations ill gen-eration.
The example derivations below will berestricted to generation only.Within the Rosetta system the grammars of therelevant languages are attuned to one another,in such a way that two sentences that are eachother's translation can be derived starting fromcorresponding basic expressions by applying COlTe-sponding rules in the same way for both sentences.
'Corresponding' here means: 'corresponding to thesame meaning operation or basic meaning', and itholds of meaningful M-rules only.M-grammars attuned in this way are called iso-morphic grammars, and therefore the method oftranslation used is called the isomorphic grammarapproach to machine translation.2 CATEGORIALMISMATCHESIn order to derive simple sentences e.g.
Ziet hi 3" demanf one could design a grammar of Dutch that,starting with a basic verb (zie) applies rules to de-rive the sentence mentioned.
One could have rulescombining a basic verb with arguments that it al-lows or requires (hij, de mart) in a sentence, rulesthat determine the tense of this sentence (presenttense) and rules that determine 'mood'  and real-...... ?The.pap-er-d-ea~-with the grammars in the third versionof the Rosetta system, Rosetta3.- 80 -ize the sentence accordingly ( in this case yes-no-question, main clause, realized by the order verb-subject-object}, etc..In order to derive the English sentence Does hesee the manf  as a translation of this Dutch sen-tence it would be required to design a grammarof English isomorphic to the grammar of Dutchsketched above.
There must be a rule combining averb (see} with its arguments (he, the man}.
Theremust be rules determining tense and aspect (simplepresent tense in the example sentence), and theremust be rules that determine 'mood' and realizethe sentence accordingly (yes-no- question, mainclause, realized by introducing the auxiliary verbdo and the order do-subject-verb-object}, etc..In this simple example the syntactic categories ofthe Dutch word zien and its translation into En-glish see are the same.
For these cases isomor-phic grammars can be developed rather straight-forwardly.However, machine translation systems must beable not only to translate between words of thesame category, but also to translate between wordsof different syntactic categories.
Some exampleswhere a translation between words of different cat-egories is required or desirable are given in the fol-lowing table:hij zwemt graag (Adv}he likes to swim (Verb}hij is toevallig ziek (Adv)he happens to be ill (Verb}het mist (Verb}it is foggy (Adj)hij schaamt zich ervoor (Verb}He (_Adj.!
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.hij is mij 3 gulden schuldig (Adj)He owes me 3 guilders (Verb}hij is in A'dam woonaehtig (Adj)He resides in Amsterdam (Verb}Het is voldoende (Adj}The Rosetta grammars nmst be able to deal withsuch cases in a systematic way.It must also be possible to translate 'smallclauses' into full clauses (finite or infinite) and viceversa.
'Small Clauses' are propositional units inwhich a subject-predicate relationship is expressedand which are not marked for tense and aspect (cf.Stowell (1981)).
Some examples of full clauses andtheir corresponding 'small clauses' are given in thefollowing table:'Full Clauses'VerbAdjPrepAdvNounHe killed a manHe is intelligentHe is against he dealHe is hereHe is a fool'Small Clauses'VerbAdjPrepAdvNounI had the man killedI consider him intelligentWe got him against the dealWe got him hereThey consider him a foolSmall clauses can occur only as complementswithin a clause.
The fact that they are not markedfor tense and aspect is reflected in the absence ofauxiliary and copular verbs.
If the grammar al-lows for translation of clauses into small clausesand vice-versa, then it becomes possible to derivee.g.
he seems ill and hii schiint ziek te zijn (lit.he seems to be ill as translations of each other.
Itis sometimes requh'ed to be able to translate smallclauses into full clauses in some cases.
The En-glish sentence he seems ill cannot be translatedinto Dutch *hi i schiint ziek, which is ungrammat-ical, but umst be translated into hi\] schi\]nt ziek tezijn ( he seems to be ill) or into bet schiint dat hi iziek is (it seems that he is ill}.3 GRAMMAR ORGANI -ZAT IONThe global organization of the grammars (leavingtransformations out of consideration) is the samefor all languages, as is required by the isomorphicmethod.The grammars are subdivided into five proiec-tion subgrammars ~, one for each major category(Verb, Noun, Prep, Adj, Adv).
3Each of these projection subgrammars consistsof a number of subgrammars.
The partitioning ofprojection subgrammars into subgrammars i  mo-tivated by the fact that it must be possible to usetile output of each subgrammar as import to sub-grammars of other projection subgrammars.A schematic representation of the paxtitioningof a projection subgrammar into subgrammars i2These are called subgrammars in Appeio, Fellinger &Landsbergen(1987)3Apart from these subgrammars there is also a projectionsubgrammar to derive simple NPs, which is not partiallyisomorphic to the other projection subgrammars.-81  -given in figure 1, where X is a variable over themajor syntactic ategories.
A projection subgram-mar is a set of subgrammars that define a projec-tion for a given category X.
A projection of somecategory X is a syntactic structure headed by X.Each projection subgrammar is bifurcated as in-dicated in figure 1.
If the rules and transforma-tions in the XPPtoGLAUSE and CLAUSEtoSEN-TENCE subgrammars are applied a full clause isderived.
If the rules and transformations of theXPPtoXPFORMULA (XPPtoXPF) and XPFOR-MULAtoXPP (XPFtoXPP) are applied a 'smallclause' is derived.The projection subgrammars are partially iso-morphic to one another, which makes it possibleto translate a subset of constructions from oneprojection subgrammar into constructions fromsome other projection subgrammar.
Furthermorethe XPPtoXPF subgrammars are partially isomor-phic to the XPPtoCLAUSE subgrammars, andthe XPFtoXPP subgramlnars are partially isomor-phic to the CLAUSEtoSENTENGE subgrammars.This makes it possible to translate a subset of fullclauses into 'small clauses'.The subgrammars are partially isomorphic toone another instead of fully isomorphic, becausefor certain full clauses no corresponding smallclauses exist (e.g.
there is no 'small clause' cor-responding to the full clause Is he Jill).BXderivation\] XPP Iformation I .
.
.
.
.
.
.
Ito ix PfCLAUSE I XPF1 ,lCLAUSE to XPF toSENTENC~ XPPFigure 1: The global organization of the Rosettaprojection subgrammars.
X is a variable rangingover the major syntactic ategoriesThe subgrammars indicated in figure 1 will bediscussed in more detail now.X-Der ivat ion subgrammar  deals with deriva-tion and compositionXPPformat ion  In this subgrammar the argu-ment structure and the syntactic realizationof arguments (whether they are subject, ob-ject, prepositional object, etc.)
is accountedfor.
Voice (active, passive) is determined inthis subgrammar.XPPtoCLAUSE When this subgrammar is ap-plied a full clause will be derived.
In the sub-grammar propositional complements and ad-verbials are introduced, tense and aspect isdetermined and auxiliaries are introduced ac-cordingly.
There are several transformationsin this subgrammar to deal with the properincorporation of propositional units into thestructure, e.g.
transformations dealing withcontrol phenomena, nd transformations deal-ing with the proper positioning of verbs (es-pecially in Dutch).
'Hidden' arguments, e.g.nonovert by-phrases in passives, are dealt withhere.XPPtoXPF  When this subgrammar is applied a'small clause' will be derived.
The XPPtoXPFsubgrammars are partially isomorphic to theXPPtoCLAUSE subgrammars, hence theycontain similar corresponding rules.
Theycontain rules introducing propositional com-plements, rules determining tense and aspect(which is considered to be present thoughdependent upon superordinate clauses) andrules dealing with hidden arguments.CLAUSEtoSENTENCE In this subgrammarnonpropositional rguments are introducedand scope of quantificational expressions i ac-counted for.
Furthermore the 'mood' of a sen-tence is determined, i.e.
it is decided whetherit is going to be a declarative, interrogative,relative etc.
clause.XPFtoXPP  This subgrammar is partially iso-morphic to the GLAUSEtoSENTENCE sub-grammars.
It contains rules to introduce non-propositional arguments and to account forscope.
There are 'mood' rules determiningwhether the XPP is 'closed' (i.e.
there are nofree variables left in the structure), or 'open',(i.e.
the subject variable is free).- 82  -4 ILLUSTRATIONSThe global organization of the grammar will beillustrated here by showing the derivation pro-cesses of certain examples involving a categorialmismatch and of some examples of translationsfrom 'small clauses' into full clauses or vice versa.
Irepeat that only the generative part of the deriva-tion need be demonstrated given the reversibilityof the grammars.
Furthermore only the correctderivation paths through the grammar will be il-lustrated, though in reality many false paths, i.e.paths through the grammar that do not lead to anactual sentence, are chosen by the grammar.Since M-grammaxs are reversible it possible to'translate' from e.g.
Dutch into Dutch.
In this wayRosetta functions as a paraphrase generator.
Be-cause of this, the partial isomorphy between twoprojection subgrammars can (and will) be illus-trated by showing the parallel derivation of twoparaphrases in generation.In subsection 4.1 the derivation of hi\] schaamtzich ervoor and he is ashamed of it will be illus-trated.In subsection 4.2 the derivation of I find himintelligent and I find that he is intelligent will beillustrated.In subsection 4.3 the derivation of he seems in-telligent, he seems to be intelligent and it seemsthat he is intelligent as paraphrases of one anotherwill be illustrated.In subsection 4.4 the derivation of de op haarverliefde man and de man die op haar verliefd isas paraphrases of one another will be illustrated.In subsection 4.5 the derivation of hi\] zwemtgraag and he likes to swim will be illustrated.4.1 Adjective-VerbThe derivations of hi\] schaamt zich ervoor (lit.
heashamed himself therefor) and its translation he isashamed of it run as follows.
The verb schamenis a two place verb so that it can be combinedwith two variables, zl and ~,  in the VPPforma-tion subgrammar yielding VPP(xl x2 schaam}.
Inthe English grammar, the adjective ashamed is alsocombined with two variables in the ADJPPfor-mation subgrammar, yielding ADJPP(zi ashamedz2}.
The Dutch verb schamen must realize its sec-ond argument as a prepositional object with thepreposition voor.
The English adjective ashamedmust realize its second argument as a prepositionalobject as well, though headed by the preposition of.Pattern transformations axe applied to yield thiseffect: VPP(zl voor r?
schaam} and ADJPP(z iashamed of z2).Ill the VPPformation snbgrammar a Voice-ruleapplies determining that the structure is in activevoice.
In the ADJPPformation subgrammax a cor-responding rule applies which has no visible effects.In Dutch a transformation spelling out a reflex-ive pronoun must apply, since the verb schamenis a so-called inherently reflexive verb.
This yieldsVPP(zi zieh voor x2 schaam).
Since spelling outthese reflexive pronouns is achieved by transfor-mations, no corresponding M-rule need apply inEnglish.These structures are both input to the XPPto-CLAUSE subgrammar where they are turned intoclauses.
In Dutch this yields CLAUSE(zi zieh soorz2 schaam).
In English the copula be is introduced,yielding OLAUSE(zi be ashamed of x2}.
Tense andaspect rules are applied in both cases, putting thestructures in present ense, yielding OLAUSE(xizich voor x2 schaamt) and OLAUSE(zx is ashamedof ~).Substitution rules substitute the NPs her andit respectively for the variables z2 and the NPshi\] and he respectively for the variables zt.
Thisyields in English OLAUSE(he  is ashamed of it) andin Dutch OLAUSE(hi j  zich voor het schaamt).
Anobligatory transformation turns voor het in Dutchinto ervoor.Mood rules are applied in Dutch and in En-glish.
The clauses are turned into declarative mainclauses.
In English this yields SENTENCE(heis ashamed of it} and in Dutch this yields SEN-TENCE(hi j  zich ervoor schaamt}.
Application ofthe transformation putting the finite verb in 'sec-ond' position and application of an obligatory topi-calization transformation in Dutch yield the actualsentence Hij schaamt zich ervoor.4.2  Adjective-declarativewith main verbc lauseThe parallel derivations of I find him intelligentand I find that he is intelligent run as follows.In the ADJPPformation subgrammar the adjectiveintelligent is combined with a variable zi yieldingADJPP(zi intelligent) This ADJPP can be turnedeither into a clause yielding OLAUSE(zi be intel-ligent) (ill tlle XPPtoOLAUSE subgrammax) or itcan continue as an adjectival construction (in theADJPPtoADJPF  subgrammar).
Tense and As-pect rules determine that the tense of this con-struction is dependent on the tense of a superor-dinate construction yet to be formed.
A substitu-- 83  -tion rule substitutes the NP  containing he for zlyielding ADJPF{ he intelligent) and CLAUSE{heis/was intelligent} respectively.
Finally Mood rulesdetermine the way the clause and the ADJPFare realized.
The mood rule forming subordi-nate declarative clauses is mapped onto the moodrule forming 'closed' ADJPPs (CADJPP).
Apply-ing these mood rules yields SENTENCE{that heis/was intelligent) and CADJPP(he intelligent).These results can be used later in the derivationas arguments to the verb .find.To derive the rest of the structures the verb findis combined with two variables (z2, x3 ) yield-ing VPP{x2 find z3).
The substructures builtearlier can be substituted for x3 yielding VPP(x2 find he intelligent) and VPP(zz find that heis/was intelligent) respectively.
After turningthese VPPs into clauses and applying tense and as-pect rules (putting the sentences ill present ense)the tense of the subordinate clause can be deter-mined.
This yields CLAUSE(z2 find he intelligent}and CLAUSE(z2 find that he is intelligent).
Ap-plying a case-assignment transformation a d sub-stituting the NP(I) for ~ yields CLAUSE(/findhim intelligent} and CLAUSE{/find that he is in-telligent} respectively.
Applying a mood rule thatturns these clauses into declarative main clausesyields the actual sentences.4.3  Ad jec t ive -dec la ra t ive  c lausewith copulaThe derivations of he seems intelligent, he seemsto be intelligent and it seems that he is intelli-gent starts in the same way as in the precedingsection.
A CADJPP(he intelligent) and a SEN-TENCE(that he is/was intelligent} are generated.In addition to the mood rule forming finite declar-ative subordinate sentences a nmod rule forming'closed' infinite declarative subordinate sentencescontaining to call be applied.
This rule formsthe SENTENCE(he to be intelligent) out of theCLAUSE(he be intelligent ).These results can be used as arguments to tileverb seem.
In the VPPformation subgrammar aVPP(seem z2) is formed from the verb seem andthe variable z2.
The SENTENCEs  and the CAD-JPP  obtained earlier are substituted for the vari-able x2.
This yields the structures VPP(seem heintelligent}, VPP(seem that he is/was intelligent}and VPP(seem he to be intelligent} respectively.A transformation turns the subject of embeddedinfinitival complements of verbs such as seem intothe subject of seem, and the NP(it} is inserted asa subject of the verb seem if it has a finite com-plement.
After determining tense and aspect andapplying a subject-verb agreement transformationthis yields the structures CLAUSE(he seems in-telligent), CLAUSE(it seems that he is intelligent)and CLAUSE(he seems to be intelligent} respec-tively.
Applying the mood rule forming declarativemain clauses yields the actual sentences.In tile grammar of Dutch parallel derivations canbe made.
The CADJPP(hff intelligent) (cf.
he in-telligent} and tile SENTENCEs dat hij intelligentis/was and hi3" intelligent e zijn (cf.
that he is/wasintelligent and he to be intelligent resp.)
can be de-rived.Some of these results can be used as argumentsto the verb sehijnen 'seem'.
In the VPPforma-lion subgrammar the verb sehijnen is combinedwith the variable z?
into a VPP(z~ sehijn).
TheSENTENCEs obtained earlier can be substitutedfor this variable, but tile CADJPP(h/j intelligent)cannot, because the Dutch verb sehijnen does nottake CADJPPs as a complement.Tile derivation continues with the two resultsVPP( dat hij is~was intelligent schffn) and VPP(h/jintelligent te zijn schijn}.
Application of severaltransformations to deal adequately with such com-plements in Dutch (Verb-raising and extraposition(in tile sense of Evers(1975)), subject-to-subject-raising and some others) and application of tenseand aspect rules yields CLAUSE(her schijnt dat hijintelligent is) and CLAUSE{hij intelligent sehijntte zijn) respectively.Application of mood rules forming declarativemain clauses and some obligatory transformationsin Dutch yields tile actual sentences Het sehijntdat hij intelligent is and Hi\] sehijnt intelligent tezijn as translations oftile English sentences derivedearlier.4.4  Adjective-relative clauseThe derivations of (de) op haar verliefde (man)(the man in love with her) and (de man) die ophaar verliefd is (the man that is in love with her)runs as follows.The adjective verliefd 'in love' is a two-placeadjective that is combined with two variables xland x?
in tile ADJPPformation subgrammar.
Thisyields a structure of the form ADJPP(xl verlie\[d~).
The adjective verliefd must realize its secondargument (z2) as a prepositional object that canoccur in front of the adjective.
Pattern transfor-mations introduce the preposition required, yield-ing ADJPP(sl op z~ verliefd ).- 84  -This ADJPP  can be turned into a clause, or itcan be turned into an adjectival phrase.
The XP-PROPtoGLAUSE subgrammar changes the struc-ture mentioned in the following way: OLAUSE(z lop z2 verliefd zi3"n), where the top category hasbeen turned into CLAUSE and tile copula zi3"n 'be'has been introduced.
To form all adjectival phrasethe ADJPP  is input to the XPPtoXPF  subgram-mar, yielding ADJPF(zl  op ~ verliefd).
In bothsubgrammars tense and aspect rules apply.In the CLAUSEtoSENTENCE subgrammar atransformation is applicable that moves the sub-ject variable zl into a position where normally rel-ative pronouns would appear.
In this particularstructure this has no effects on the hft-right order,but the relation that zl bears is changed.In the CLAUSEtoSENTENGE subgramlnar andin the ADJPFtoADJPP subgrammar the NP(zij)'she' is substituted for variable ~ and the appro-priate Case form (accusative) is assigned to it.This yields CLAUSE(z~ op haar verliefd is/was)and ADJPP(zi  op haar verliefd).Finally Mood rules turn tlle ADJPP into an'open' ADJPP (OADJPP} yielding OADJPP(zlop haar verliefd}, and they turn the CLAUSE intoa relative subordinate clause: SENTENGE(zl ophaar verliefd is).
These structures can be used byrules in the NP-subgrammar that introduce thesestructures as modifiers and bind variable zl.4.5  Graag- l i keIn the Dutch sentence hij zwemt graag the adverbgraa9 appears.
This adverb must be mapped ontothe English verb like in the translation he likes toswim.It is assumed that the Dutch adverb graa9 is atwo place-function.
This is required in Rosetta, be-cause its translation like is a two-place function 4.However, apart from being required in Rosetta, itis also plausible for independent reasons that 9raa9is a two-place function: the adverb 9raag imposesselectional restrictions upon the subject of the sen-tence it appears in (cf.
fhet regent 9raag or fdesteen valt graag, which are as odd as their Englishcounterparts fit likes to rain and fThe stone likesto fall).
If we assume that predicates impose sehc-tional restrictions only upon their arguments, thenit must be the case that the subject of the sentenceis an argument of 9raag, or that the argument of4This contrasts with the approach in the Eurotra frame-work, where this requirement does not hold.
See Arnold et.aL (19as)9raag is coindexed with the subject of tile sentence.I will assmne tlle latter.Starting with the subordinate infinitival clausein English, we combine the verb swim, which takesone argument, with a variable zl as its subject,yielding: VPP(zl swim) Similarly in the Dutchgrammar the translation of swim, zwem, is com-bined with zl: VPP(zl zwem) Ill tile VPPfor-mation subgrammar the voice rule to form activeclauses is applied.After tile VPPformation subgrammar thederivation continues in tile XPPtoGLAUSE sub-grammar.
All M-ruh to make the sentence infini-tival is applied.
Corresponding rules are applied inthe XPPtoCLAUSE subgrammar of Dutch.In the GLAUSEtoSENTENCE subgrammar noarguments are substituted.
In English a rule is ap-plied that makes the clause all infinitival subordi-nate clause containing to and containing a free vari-able in subject position which will later be subjectto control transformations.
This yields a structureof the form SENTENGE(z l  to swim)In Dutch a corresponding rule is applied thatmakes the clause all infinitival subordinate clausewithout te with a free variable in subject posi-tion.
This yields the following structure in Dutch:SENTENCE(zx  zwemmen) These structures willbe used later on.In the VPPformation subgrammar of Englishthe two-place verb like is combined with two vari-ables, zl and x2.
This yields: VPP(zi  like x2) Thevoice rule to form active sentences i applied.Correspondingly, in the ADVPPformation sub-grammar of Dutch tile adverb 9raa9 is combinedwith two variables, zl and za, and a voice rules isapplied.
This yields: ADVPP(zl 9raa9 z2}In the English subgrammar XPPtoCLAUSE tilesentential structure derived above is substitutedfor the variable x~, yielding: VPP(zi like \[ xl toswim\]}A control transformation deletes the second oc-currence of zl.
Tense and aspect rules apply whichturn the structure into a finite clause in presenttense.In the Dutch subgrammar XPPtoCLAUSE thesentential structure derived above is substitutedfor the variable z?
by a special rule that takes careof substitution of sentential complements into AD-VPPs.
This special rule deletes the ADVPP nodeand replaces it by a VPP  node, turns the ADVPinto a modifier inside this VPP, makes the VP  ofSENT the VP  of this VPP, deletes the variable zlinside SENT and un-does the morphological effectsof tense rules.
This yields the structure: VPP(zl- 85  -AD VP(graag} zwem)These structures continue their normal deriva-tion.
Tense and aspect rules apply, the NP ar-gument hij" (he) is substituted for st and the sen-tence is made into a declarative main clause, yield-ing in English: SENTENCE(he likes to swim) andin Dutch, after application of the transformationof 'Verb second' and an obligatory topicalizationtransformation: SENTENCE( hij zwemt graag)5 CONCLUSIONIt has been shown that the concept of partial iso-morphy between subgrammars makes it possible totranslate between words of different syntactic at-egories and between 'small clauses' and full clausesin a systematic way.
Furthermore, it has beenshown that one of the most difficult cases of trans-lation between words of different categories, viz.the 9raa9/like translation probhm, can be reducedto having only one special rule, given partial iso-morphy between subgrammars.ACKN O WLED GEMENT SThis paper is based on joint work being done in theRosetta machine translation project.
I would liketo thank Lisette Appelo, Jan Landsbergen, Mar-greet Sanders and Andr6 Schenk for many valuablecomments on earlier drafts of this paper.and Methodolooical Issues in Machine Trans-lation of Natural Lanouaoes, Carnegie MellonUniversity, Center for Machine Translation,Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.Evers, A.
(1975), The Transformational Cyclein Dutch and German, diss.
University ofUtrecht.Landsbergen, J.
(1987), 'Isomorphic grammarsand their use ill the Rosetta Translation Sys-tem', Philips Research M.S.
12.950, Paperpresented at tile Tutorial on Machine Trans-lation, Lugano, 1984, in: M. King (ed.
), Ma-chine Translation, the State of the Art, Edin-burg University Press.Leermakers, R. and J. Rous (1986), 'The Trans-lation Method of Rosetta', Philips ResearchM.S.
13.701, In: Computers and Translation,Vol 1, number 3, pp.
169-183.Stowell, T. (1981), Origins of Phrase Structure,Ph.
D. dissertation, MIT.REFERENCESAppelo, L. , C. Fellinger and J. Landsber-gen (1987), 'Subgramlnars, Rule Classes andControl in the Rosetta Translation System',Philips Research M.S.
14.131, to appear in:Proceedings of 8rd Conference ACL, EuropeanChapter.Appelo, L. and J. Landsbergen (1986), 'The Ma-chine Translation Project Rosetta', PhilipsResearch M.S.
13.801, In: Proceedings FirstInternational Conference on the State of theArt in Machine Translation, Saarbriicken, pp.34-51.Arnold, D., S. Krauwer, L. des Tombe & L. Sadhr(1988), "Relaxed' Compositionality ill Ma-chine Translation', in: Proceedings of the Sec-ond International Conference on Theoretical- 86 -
