THE SYNTACTIC  REGULARITY  OF ENGLISH NOUN PHRASESLita Taylor, Claire Grover, Ted Briscoe ~Department of LinguisticsUniversity of LancasterBallriggLanes., LA1 4YT, UK.ABSTRACTApproximately, 10,000 naturally occurring nounphrases taken from the LOB corpus were used firstly, toevaluate the NP component of the Alvey ANLTgrammar (Grover et al, 1987, 1989) and secondly, toretest Sampson's (1987a) claim that this data provideevidence for the lack of a clear-cut distinction betweengrammatical nd 'deviant' examples.
The examples weresorted and classified on the basis of the lexical andsyntactic analysis undertaken as part of the LOB corpusproject (Sampson, 1987b).
Tokens of each resulting typewere parsed using the ANLT grammar and the resultsanalysed to determine the success rate of the parses andthe generality of the rules employed.INTRODUCTIONIn this paper, we present the results of an analysis ofjust over 10,000 English noun phrases (NPs) extractedfrom the Lancaster Oslo/Bergen (LOB) corpus treebank(Sampson, 1987b), a syntactically analysed 50,000 wordsubset of the 1 million word LOB corpus.
Themotivation for this research is twofold.
Firstly, we wishto use this substantial data-base of naturally occurringconstructions to test the accuracy mad adequacy of a(purportedly) wide-coverage sentence grammar (Groveret al, 1987, 1989) which has been developed over thepast three years as part of a general-purposemorphological and syntactic analyser for English(hereafter the Alvey Natural Language Tools (ANLT)grammar).
2 The research reported here forms part of anongoing project to evaluate the complete grammar usingdata extracted from the LOB corpus (see Briscoe et al,1987a).
Secondly, Sampson (1987a) has analysed a largesubset of the same NPs and argued that they provideevidence against any clear-cut distinction betweengrammatical nd 'deviant' sentences in natural anguage.Sampson suggests that the lack of such a distinctionprecludes the possibility of successful automated naturallanguage processing (NLP) using a generative grammar.If correct, this conclusion would have profoundimplications for our own work and the majority of otherwork in NLP (since the ANLT grammar is a type ofgenerative grammar).
Therefore, we wished to assess theevidence which Sampson uses to sutrtx~ his conclusion.The LOB treebank is a manually analysed set ofsentences drawn from the lexically analysed and taggedLOB corpus.
~ An analysis consists of a labelledbracketing containing lexical syntactic tags and phrasalor clausal 'hypertags'.
Sampson (1987,'221) reports thatthere are 47 tags and hypertags relevant o the analysisof NPs - 28 lexical tags, 14 hypertags and 5 punctuationtags~ Analyses are assigned to sentences according to theintuitions of the linguist guided by a 'casebook' ofprecedents (Sampson, 1987b).
One important feature ofthese analyses is that the resulting tree structures arequite 'shallow' in the sense that there are rarelyintervening nodes between the topmost node marked NPand the lexical tags themselves.
Whilst most NPpostmodifiers are treated as independent constituents, NPpremodifiers are largely analysed as immediate daughtersof the topmost NP node.
In addition, punctuation tagsare usually attached as immediate daughters of this node.A second significant feature of the LOB treebankanalysis scheme is that tags and hypertags are atomicsymbols (albeit with mnemonic names designed toindicate aspects of their featural composition).Sampson (1987a:221) treats these 47 tags andhypertags as defining the types of distinct NP: "two ormore noun phrases are regarded as tokens of the sametype if their respective immediate constituents (ICs)represent the same sequence of possibilities drawn fromthis 47-member set of constituent-types".
The examplehe gives of an NP type is DT* *S , F which would bethe analysis assigned to an NP consisting of adeterminer, plural noun, comma and finite clause.
In thisexample, Sampson has generalised across sets of atomictags through the use of 'wildcard' symbols, so DT*generalises across DTI, DT$, DTS, DTX, and so forth.He does not explain the extent to which he hasgeneralised types in this fashion; however, since(hyper)tags contain at most four letters representingdistinct features there are strict limits on featuraldecomposition within this framework of analysis.Sampson found that the 8328 NP tokens in his samplefell into 747 distinct NP types (relative to the notion oftype just described).
However, the crucial point of hisargument is that the distribution of tokens amongst ypesis very wide.
Sampson finds that there are a few verycommon types (such as 1135 tokens of DT* N* ie.determiner followed by noun) and a large number ofdistinct types with very few tokens (such as 468 typesrepresented by a single token).
Sampson examines theshape of the constituent type/token curve which resultsfrom analysing each type frequency relative to the mostfrequent type in the corpus.
Sampson (1987a:225)concludes that this analysis provides "no evidence at allof a two-way partition of noun phrase types into a groupof high-frequency, well-formed constructions and a groupof unique or rare 'deviant' constructions; instead nounphrase types in the sample appear to be scatteredcontinuously across the frequency spectrum.
"Furthermore, he suggests that the evidence from NPssupports his claim that "the range of constructionsoccurring in authentic texts seems so endlessly diverse- 256 -that the enterprise of formulating watertight generativegrammars appears doomed to failure" (1987b:219).The last step in Sampson's argument from thedistribution of tokens amongst NP types to the failure ofthe generative paradigm is not made completely explicit.However, we believe that a legitimate way ofreconstructing it is as follows.
Suppose that we converteach NP type as defined above into a phrase-structurerule of a generative grammar (so DT* *S , F becomesNP -> DT* *S,  F and so forth).
Now consider the formthat such a grammar will take: there will be a smallnumber of quite general rules which will be usedfrequently and a very large number of particular ulesused very infrequently.
Crucially, for any corpusconsidered, many of the particular rules will bemotivated by just one token in the data.
Thus, these rulesare not rules in any genuine sense since they express nogeneralisations over the data.
Furthermore, this suggeststhat the task of the generative linguist (in search ofwatertight grammars) will never be complete becauseeach new set of data will bring with it the need forfurther highly idiosyncratic 'rules' of this kind.Whilst it seems likely that "all grammars leak"slightly, one clear problem with Sampson's argument isthat his evidence only bears on one particular andimplausible generative grammar, rather than on theparadigm as a whole.
It may well be that thegeneralisations which can be expressed in terms of aphrase-structure grammar employing a finite set of(nearly) atomic categories are not those appropriate toelegant description of natural language syntax (Chomsky,1957; Gazdar et al, 1985).
In addition, the strategy ofadopting 'shallow' analyses in which each phrase-structure rule will have many daughter categories willtend to reduce the applicability of each rule.
In theserespects, the ANLT grammar is a more conventionalgenerative grammar, based on recent monostratalapproaches to syntactic description.
Syntactic ategoriesare feature complexes and unification is employed as themethod of grammatical combination.
Syntacticgeneralisations are expressed in terms of partiallyspecified immediate dominance rules, linear precedencerules and a variety of metagrammatical statementsconcerning feature defaults, propagation, optionalpre/postmodification, and so forth.
4 In addition, theparticular analysis of NPs adopted recognises a numberof intermediate nominal categories (such as N-bar), aswell as recursion within these categories, and thisensures that most individual rules mention fewerdaughters than would be typical in the analysis used inthe description of the LOB treebank.
For these reasons,we felt that a fairer test of Sampson's claims would beto evaluate the same corpus of NPs with respect o theANLT grammar.
In addition, this exeereise wouldprovide valuable information concerning the realadequacy of the account of English NPs incorporatedinto this grammar.THE ANALYS IS  TECHNIQUEA superset of the corpus of data analysed bySampson (1987a) was extracted from the LOB treebankusing tree searching software developed by the firstauthor and Roger Garside of Lancaster University'scomputing department.
Following Sampson, we ignoredcategories G (Belles lettres, biography, essays) and P(Romance and love story) from the treebank data-base.The omission of this treebank data merely reflects thestate of development of the treebank at the time whenSampson undertook his experiment.
However, Sampsonalso ignored coordination because he felt that coor-dination reduction and such phenomena would create"special complications".
We include results for thecoordinated examples because the ANLT grammarcontains the required rules.
In other respects, the initialsamples are identical; both being drawn from an identical38,212 word sample from the treebank.Of the 10,150 NPs in this sample of the treebank, 17were rejected because they were incorrectly analysed andeither were not, in fact, NPs or else the boundaries ofthe putative NP were incorrectly marked and, therefore,our access software failed.
The remaining 10,133 NPswere initially sorted into single and multi constituentNPs (according to the LOB model of analysis).
Singleconstituent NPs were further sorted according to theincidence and order of their immediate lexical con-stituents and multi constituent NPs according to theincidence, order and attachment of their immediatedaughters.
At this point, we discarded a further 119 NPswhich were tagged in a way which indicated theycontained either foreign phrases (for example, faitaccomplO or mathematical formulae and symbols.
Theseare tagged but not analysed internally in the treebank.We assume that they are irrelevant o the syntax ofEnglish NPs.
These steps resulted in 10,014 NPs beingsorted into 2358 distinct NP types.
These types must beidentical with Sampson's initial analysis (modulo theinclusion of coordination and exclusion of formulae andforeign phrases) because they are based entirely on theliteral form of the tags in the LOB treebank.The next stage of our analysis was to semi-automatically reduce these 2358 NP types into fewertypes by collapsing together tags on the basis of gram-matical generalisations exploited in the ANLT grammarrules and implicit in the LOB tag names.
For example,there is no purpose in treating NPs identical apart fromthe number of the head noun as distinct (although theyare tagged distinctly) because the ANLT grammar willdeploy precisely the same set of rules to analyse them.Sampson (1987a) also collapsed types by generalisingacross tags, however, he gives no details of this pro-cedure, so it is impossible to quantify the extent towhich our analyses diverged at this point.
FollowingSampson, we ignored the internal structure of post-modifiers (such as PPs, relative clauses, etc.)
and ofpossessive premodifiers.
However, in order not totrivialise the experiment we analysed the same set oflexical data covered by his analysis regardless ofwhether lexical items are treated as immediateconstituents ofNP in the ANLT grammar.
For example,- 257  -sequences of simple adjectival or possessive premodifiersare directly attached to the topmost NP node in thetreebank, so we consider these cases in our results.We also performed some manual editing of the LOBexamples to remove punctuation.
The ANLT grammarcontains no rules referring to punctuation since we donot regard punctuation as a syntactic phenomenon.However, where punctuation reflects a genuine syntacticdistinction (such as that between restrictive and non-restrictive postmodification), examples were classifiedappropriately.
This approach probably gives us a slightedge over Sampson in terms of the generalising power ofour rules, but we do not regard this as perniciousbecause we do not recognise a syntactic difference bet-ween examples uch as the man with red shoes in thepark and the man with red shoes, in the park, gjven thesemantically intuitive analysis.
48 NPs contained bra-ckets, of which 34 signalled appositional or paren-thetical material.
The appositional cases were parsed withbrackets deleted.
The parenthetical cases were counted asfailures (see below for further discussion).
In 8 of theremaining cases, the brackets were internal to an em-bedded constituent and were, therefore, irrelevant.
3further examples contained point numbering or marking(i.e.
a)... b)...) conventions and the final 3 enclosedordinary modifiers.
These 6 examples were parsed withbrackets and numbering/marking conventions removed.These steps resulted in 707 distinct NP types.Sampson (1987a) found 747 types.
When one considersthat punctuation will have increased the number of typeshe found, it seems likely that we have probablyreanalysed the data in a manner quite similar to hisoriginal analysis.
One token of each of the 707 revisedtypes of NP was parsed using the ANLT grammar NPrules.
Initially, we attempted to perform this analysisautomatically using the ANLT project parser in batchmode.
The words in the example to be parsed werereplaced with their lexical tags and a 'lexicon' wascreated relating tags to lexical syntactic categories in theANLT  grammar.
Data from the treebank and other datafrom two different corpora were parsed in this fashionand the output was manually analysed to select thesemantically correct analysis, weed out 'false positives'where the system had assigned one or more incorrectanalyses, and to diagnose the reasons for parse failure.Failures occurred beth because of inadequacies ingrammatical coverage and because of resource limitationswith some long and multiply-ambiguous NPs.
Theresulting data contained many cases of multiple analysesof the type expected using a grammar containing rules tohandle PP attachment and compounding (see, for ex-ample, Church & Patil, 1982).
The intention was to com-pute the frequency with which each rule of the grammarapplied and the overall success rate of the gram-mar/parser from these manually edited files.
However,the process of evaluating and searching for correctanalyses amongst very high numbers of automaticallygenerated parses required more effort than manuallyapplying the rules to check that the semantically correctanalysis could be produced.
This problem highlights theneed for automatic semantic 'filtering' of the parsesproduced, but, in the absence of a fairly comprehensiveand sophisticated lexical and compositional semanticcomponent, his was not possible.Therefore, we completed the analysis of one tokenof each of the 707 NP types by manually applying theANLT grammar to check that the semantically?
appropriate analysis could be produced.
When the correctparse was available, the rules used in this analysis wererecorded.
We derived a numerical index of the generalityof each rule by counting each application andmultiplying it by the number of tokens in each typeexemplified by the parsed example.RESULTS622 of the 707 examples were parsed successfully,yielding a success rate of 87.97% When the success ratetakes account of the frequency of each NP type in thesample and indicates the proportion of successful NPparses which would be achieved by the ANLT systemfor this data, the figure rises to 96.88% or 9702 NPsparsed successfully out of the 10,014 sample.The analyses utilised a total of 54 distinct rulesexpressed in the ANLT 'object grammar' formalism.
Ofthese 8 were additions prompted by the experiment: 3for names (Mr. Joe Bloggs), I for noun compounding(water meter), 2 for adverbial pre- and post-modification(nearly a century), 1 for possessive NPs dominated byN-bar (the America's cup), and 1 for NPs with adjectivalheads (the poor).
We added these rules because theyexpress uncontroversial generalisations and represent'oversights' in the development of the grammar atherthan ad hoc additions solely for the purposes of theexperiment.These object grammar ules were produced by 7linear precedence statements, 4 rules of feature prop-agation, 6 feature default rules, 3 metarules, and 50 im-mediate dominance rules in the metagrammar.
Althoughthe metagrammar is the 'seat of linguistic general-isations' in our system, parsing proceeds in terms of acompiled object grammar derived from these meta-grammatical statements.
Therefore, statistics concerningrule application will be associated with the objectgrammar.We counted the number of times each of the 54object grammar phrase-structure rules would apply in theanalysis of all the parsable xamples in the sample.
Thecategories of these object grammar ules still containfeatures with varlable-values which will be instsntiated atparse time by unification.
They are therefore con-siderably more general than similar rules with atomic ornearly-atomic categories (of the kind which are implicitin the treebank analyses and resulting NP types).
Table 1below presents these results.
The rules used end theircorresponding names are a superset of those described inGrover et al (1987).
Grover et al (1989) describes indetail all the rules used below.- 258  -Table 1 - Number of Applications of the 54 Object Grammar RulesRule NameCONJ/N1ACONJ/NIBCONJ/N2ACONJ/N2BCONJ/NACONJ/NBN/COORD1NICOORD2ANI/COORD1N1/COORD2AN1/COORD2DN2/COORD1AN2/COORD1BN2/COORD2N2/COORD3AN2/COORD3CN2/COORD3DN/ADJN/COMPOUNDN/NAME1N/NAME2N/NAME3NIIAPMODINIIAPMOD2NI/INFMODNI/POSSNI/POSSMODNI/POST_APMODN1/VPMODN1/PPMODNI/RELN1/NNI/PPN1/SFINN1/VPINFN2+/DETN2+/PART1N2+/PART 1 (FOOT6)N2+/PART2N2+/PART3N2+/POSSNPN2+/PRON2+/PRO(FOOT9)N2+/PRO2N2+/QUAN2-N2-/QUAN2-/QUA(FOOT4)N2/ADVP/1N2/ADVP/2N2/APPOSN2/COMPAR_IN2/NEGPOSSNPNo.
of AppHcs.
Brief Explanation1411334233821413121435733358721711159105412720632134190213343184777352717011322645347I86201461974I1111857819380I47322748i012N1 conjunct, no coordinatorN1 conjunct, with coordinatorN2 conjunct, no coordinatorN2 conjunct, with coordinatorN conjunct, no coordinatorN conjunct, with coordinatorand coordination of Nor coordination of N, all conjuncts with same PLU valueand coordination of N1or coordination of N1, all conjunets PLU -or coordination of N1, all conjuncts PLU +and coordination of N2and coordination of N2 but no coordinators (i.e.
a list)both.and coordination of N2or coordination of N2, all conjuncts PLU -or coordination of N2, differing PLU valuesor coordination of N2, all conjunets PLU +N -> ADJ - the poor and adjs.
in compoundsN -> N N-  water meterNames - Tom Brown, A. N. OtherNames with pre- and post-titles - Mr. Brown, J.
Brown esq.Complex titles - vice president, prime ministerPrenominal AP modifier(2 versions to restrict number of attachments)Infinitival VP postmodifier with gap - the man to askThe possessive morpheme'sPossessive NP as premodifier - the America's cupAP postmodifier - the man most likely to winPassive or progressive VP postmodifier - the man dyinglkilledPP posmaodifierRelative clause postmodifierAn N with no complementsPP complementSentential complementInfinitival VP complementN2\[+Spec\] -> DET N2\[-Spec\] - the bookPartitive, plural - many of the booksWh version - how many of the booksWithout of-  all the booksPartitive, singular - each of the booksPossessive NP in specifier position - the man's bookPronounsWh pronounsPronouns in partitivesQuantifying adj.
in specifier position - all booksN2 with no specifier - booksQuantifying adj.
in non-spec, position - (the) many~three booksWh version - how many booksAdverbial phrase premodifieafionAdverbial phrase postmodificationN2 -> N2 X2\[+Prd\] - apposition/non-restrictive modificationComparative NP with than PP - more books than him/'/2 -> not N2Possessive NP - the man's- 259-There are a number of reasons why some of thesefigures are slightly misleading.
For example, some lownumbers are an artifact of the preliminary analysis intotypes.
Thus, N2+/PRO(FOOT9), which would be utilisedto parse NPs consisting of wh-pronouns, such as who,what, and so forth, only applies once.
In the preliminaryanalysis, we decided to collapse together tags for the whand non-wh version of the same category.
It is just anaccident hat in all of the representative tokens of eachtype which were parsed, only one wh-pronoun turned upand this happened to represent a singleton type.Similarly, N1/SFIN only applies twice, but it is probablethat there are more examples of nouns taking sententialcomplements as arguments in the sample.
The LOBtagset represents these complements by 'Fn' and relativeclauses by 'Fr'.
Following Sampson, we collapsed all ofthese to 'F'.
Consequently, the bulk of the sententialcomplements were incorrectly added to the typesinvolving postmodification by relative clauses.
Theseproblems are unavoidable, given the particularassumptions built into the LOB treebank analyses, unlessa completely new analysis of the sample was undertaken.One way of ameliorating this problem is to collapsesome of the distinct rules in Table 1.
A number of thedistinct object grammar ules are present for 'technical'reasons connected with the use of fixed-arity unificationand feature propagation by variable binding in the ANLTgrammar formalism and parser (see Briscoe et al,1987b,c for details).
Therefore, we reduced the 54 objectgrammar rules to 36 hypothetical rules using ourjudgement o determine whether a distinction betweenrules was motivated by a linguistic generalisation or atechnical consideration peculiar to the ANLT grammarformalism.
In most cases, the linguistic generalisation is,in fact, present in the metagrammar rules but 'compiledout' in the automatic production of the equivalent objectgrammar.
For example, rules with 'FOOT' in their nameare wh-variants of other rules defined by metaruleswhich state the manner in which they differ(systematically) from the non-wh versions.
The resulting36 hypothetical rules are given in Table 2 along withnew rule application counts based on summing thecounts for the merged actual rules.
We also give thefigures for the number of times each rule applied in theparsing of one token of each type.
The final columnpresents a 'proportioned-up' figure based on multiplyingthe second column by 15.6 (since the parsed tokensrepresent 6.41% of the total sample).
This column givesanother perspective on the 'generalising power' of therules involved.COMPARISON OFRULES AND TYPESWe suggested above that Sampson's argumentagainst he generative concept of grammaticality is basedon the assumption that each type in his original analysiswill be associated with one nile.
Sampson (1978a) found747 types of which 468 were singleton types containingonly one token, or 62.65% singleton types.
In ourreconstruction f Sampson's analysis we found 707 typesof which 421 were singleton types, or 59.95% singletonTable 2 -  Applications of 36 Hypothetical RulesRule Name Total No.
No.
in Par- Proptiond.-of Applies.
sea Tokens up TotalCON J/N1 174 18 281CON J/N2 805 106 1654CONJ/N 27 17 265N1/COORD 133 8 125N2/COORD 389 42 655N/COORD 13 8 125N/ADJ 159 28 437N/COMPOUND 1054 216 3367N/NAME1 127 34 530N/NAME2 206 47 733N/NAME3 3 3 47N1/APMOD 2324 288 4493N1/INFMOD 2 2 31NI\[N 7170 598 9329N1/POSS 13 9 140N1/POSSMOD 3 3 47N1/POST_APMOD 43 22 343N1/PP 1132 67 1045N1/PPMOD 777 144 2246N1/REL 352 70 1092NI/SFIN 2 2 31N1/VPINF 6 4 62N1/VPMOD 184 45 702N2+/DET 4534 320 4992N2+/PART 114 26 406N2+/POSSNP 146 38 593N2+/PRO 1975 29 452N2+/PRO2 111 24 374N2+/QUA 185 36 562N2- 7819 552 8611N2-/QUA 381 92 1435N2/ADVP 79 37 577N2/APPOS 274 157 2449N2/COMPAR_I 8 6 94N2/NEG 10 7 109POSSNP 12 8 125types.
Sampson's commonest type contained 1135tokens, ours contained 1519 tokens.
Sampson (1987a)presents an analysis of his data which involves plotting afrequency-ordered listof NP types against he cumulativefrequency of NP tokens in types of the same or lowerfrequency.
This allows him to predict that 'rare' types,defined in terms of rate of occurrence relative to the rateof occurrence of the commonest type, will crop up fairlyoften in naturally occurring samples of NPs.
For ins-tahoe, if 'rare' is defined as occurring no more than onceper 1000 occurrences of the commonest type, then aboutone example in 16 will represent some rare type.Therefore, a robust parser will need many 'rules' forsuch 'rare' types.
Furthermore, there is no reason toexpect the percentage of singleton types to fall as thesample size grows, implying that a robust parser ofunrestricted text deploying a finite set of generative rulesis out of the question.Unfortunately, we cannot repeat Sampson's analysisfor both our types and our rules because more than onerule is involved in the parsing of many of the types.Using the ANLT NP rules, an average of 5 rules applied- 260  -to each parsed token exemplifying a type, this figuredrops to 3.18 when we take the average for the completesample.
Therefore, there is no direct correlation betweenrules and types.
Nevertheless, Sampson's result followsdirectly from the high proportion of singleton types inhis analysis and his assumption that one rule will sufficefor each type; as he writes "although a rare type is bydefinition represented by fewer tokens in a sample than acommon type, as we move to lower type-frequencies thenumber of types possessing those frequencies grows,so that the total proportion of tokens representing all"rare" types remains significantly large even when thethreshold of "rarity" is set at relatively extreme values.
"(Sampson, 1987:225, original emphasis).The most basic and important difference betweenany grammar based on a one-to-one correspondence ofrules and types and one such as the ANLT grammar isthe enormous difference in its size; namely, 36 or 54rules as opposed to 707 or 747 rules - reduction by afac-tor between 13 and 20 approximately.
This alonetestifies to the greater generality of the ANLT NPgrarmnar ules.
However, there are also big differencesin the patterns of application of rules between the twoapproaches.
We can see this by looking at an ordered listof the rarest 10 types and comparing it with similar listsfor the least applied actual and hypothetical 10 ANLTrules.
The first column in Table 3 shows the number oftokens or rule applications.
Following columns shownumbers and percentages of types or rules associatedwith this number of tokens or applications.Table 3 - 10 Least Frequent Types / -ly Applied RulesNo.
of Toks./Rule Applics.12345678910121314274379111Number of Number of Number ofTypes Actual Rules Hypthetel.
Rs.421 (60%) 6 (11%) 0 (0%)84 (12%) 3 (6%) 2 (6%)46 (7%) 2 (4%) 0(0%)21 (3%) 0 (0%) 0 (0%)16 (2%) 0 (0%) 1 (3%)12 (2%) 1 (2%) 1 (3%)3 (.5%) 2 (4%) 0 (0%)7 (1%) 1 (2%) 1 (3%)8 (1%) 0 (0%) 0(0%)5 (1%) 1 (2%) 1 (3%)- 2 (4%) 1 (3%)- 2 (4%)  2 (6%)- 1 (2%) 0 (0%)- - 1 (3%)- - 1 (3%)- - 1 (3%)- - 1 (3%)Summing the percentage values reveals that 88.92% oftokens fell into the ten rarest types, 38.89% of actualrules fell into the ten least applied classes, and 33.33%of hypothetical rules fell into the ten least applied classesfor that set.
Table 3 further demonstrates the greatergenerality of the rule-based analysis versus the type-based analysis for this sample of NPs.
But in a sense,presenting the results in this manner misses the crux ofSampson's argument hat any parsing system based ongenerative rules will need a large or open-ended set ofspurious 'rules' which simply redescribe the data,because they will only apply once.
In the actual rule set,6 rules or 11.11% are dubious in this sense, but, as weargued above, these rules are only distinct for technicalmasons and in the hypothetical set no such rules exist.
Inany case, the proportion of actual dubious rulesrepresents a considerable improvement on the proportionof singleton types (59.55%).In (1) we present 3 (randomly-chosen) tokens ofNPs from singleton types.
If Sampson's general thesiswere correct, we would expect such examples to beexotic or syntactically mysterious.
(1)a) the old tension-bar-sprung Morris Minorb) the main existing indirect ax, purchase taxc) a basic ideological oneThese NPs are not problematic for the ANLT grammarand are classified as singleton types because of thenature of the lexical and syntactic analysis used in theLOB treebank.
Similarly, ANLT rules which applied'rarely', such as N1/VPINF (6 times) or N1/INFMOD (2times), which would apply in the parsing of desire togrow up and man to ask respectively, do not encodecontroversial or doubtful generalisations.
Although theactual frequency of such constructions in English maywell be low.THE FAILURESIt is instructive for similar reasons to examine thoseexamples that the ANLT grammar failed to parse.
IfSampson's general thesis were correct' we should expectthese to fall into singleton types and be syntacticallyexotic or mysterious.
In fact, they are relatively easy toclassify and the failure of the ANLT grammar esultsfrom either intentional or in some cases unintentional'oversights' in the NP grammar.
The failures can beclassified, as illustrated in Table 4.Table 4 - Analysis of FailuresClassification No.
of Types No.
of TokensOdd Numbers 5 10Dates 4 24Ellipsis I i 122Parentheticals 19 58Right-node Raising 3 10Odd Premodifiers 11 21Paired Constructions 16 46Unlike Category & 2 4Miscellaneous 14 17Odd numbers include examples like 2 Kings 25 : 25 , 6,and so forth.
No rule was included in the grammar fordates, although these all consist of day (written 10 orlOth), month (unabbreviated), and year (in numerals).
In2 of the 4 cases the order of day and month is reversed.Ellipsis of the head noun in cases where there is aposmaodifier, for example, those who perpetuate it,causes a problem for the ANLT grammar because thedeterminer those cannot be analysed as a pronoun since- 261  -the grammar blocks modification of pronouns.
Thisproblem accounts for all the failures in this class.Parenthetical or intrusive material which is not inapposition comes in two kinds.
Firstly, there are cases ofgrammatical modification which occurs between the headnoun and its arguments, as (2) illustrates.
(2) our failure over two centuries to sustain any strongnational musical tradition of our ownThese are not parsed as a result of the rigid assumptionsabout the ordering of arguments and modifiers built intothe grammar.
These need to be relaxed on the basis ofsome theory of 'heaviness' and its effect on order.Secondly, there are cases of genuine intrusive interjectionor interpolation, as (3) illustrates.
(3) little capsules , this big , - he brandished ateaspoon - with hundreds of tiny little red men insidethemSuch inwasive material can occur in most positions froma syntactic perspective.
We suspect that a theoryconcerning their distribution would be largely pragmatic.Some cases of 'right-node raising' of phrases arecovered by the ANLT grammar.
However, there is norule for 'right-node raising' of nouns which wouldappear to be needed in NPs such as late 19th- and early20th-century Rumania.
Similarly, the grammar estrictsNP premodifiers to AP, but a number of non-APpremodifiers occurred in the sample.
These mostlyinvolved measure phrases of some form, such as a 6 p.ctax free distribution, the 24fl passenger cabin, or the 5shilling shares.
There are 4 cases of unlike categorycoordination in AP modifiers like music bothmanuscript and printed and wine-glass or flared heels.The ANLT grammar allows this in post-copular position.but clearly the relevant generalisations hould beextended to AP pre- and post-modifiers.There are a number of cases where a premodifierselects a particular postmedifier.
Comparative constru-ctions with more and than are a well-known type whichthe ANLT grammar covers.
However, there are manyother more or less idiomatic phrases of this type, someof which could probably be subsumed by an expandedtreatment of comparatives along existing lines, some ofwhich could not.
We give illustrative xamples in (4).
(4)such a crazy spin that I.~slie could not cope with itas much God's handiwork as a manas little as 0.001 at % of the addition elementsIn addition, the rule for noun compounding we haveincluded does not allow compounds to contain anythingother than lexical nouns.
Cases of adjectives incompounds were treated as 'successes' by allowing therule N/ADJ which converts adjectives uch as poor tonorms to deal with ellipsis of the head noun in the poorto overapply to adjectives in compounds.
In this area, theANLT grammar is clearly inadequate and needsimprovement in obvious directions.
The rule N/ADJshould be replaced by a lexical rule which states that'+human' adjectives can function as nouns, andcompounding rules should be allowed to cross the'boundary' between morphology and syntax, perhaps byallowing N-bar categories as well as nouns to'compound'.
These modifications would allow theillustrative xamples in (5) to be counted as successes.
(5)the third geologists' association excursionour well organised after care departmentsThe miscellaneous class contains 2 types where eachoccurs at the NP boundary, such as silicon , copper andmagnesium each.
We suspect that in these exampleseach should be treated as an adverbial modifier of thefollowing VP.
There are two types containing the phraseall but as part of a partitive, some cases of words, suchas no one occurring unhyphened, and one or two moreexotic examples illustrated in (6).
(6)in 17 something Newton discovered gravity' a man on the roof ' by Kathleen Sully , PeterDavies, 15 shillingsA final example worthy of consideration is given in (7).
(7) the company's Caravelle schedules London-Brusselsand onwards from Athens to various points...This could be classified as a case of non-constituentcoordination of NP and PP postnominally or as a case ofspecialised ellipsis of from before London in 'travel-agent-speak'.CONCLUSIONOur results demonstrate quite clearly that a feature-based unification grammar employing a recursive and'deeper' style of analysis captures the relevant gener-alisatious more efficiently than the analysis and implicitformalism employed by Sampson (1987a).
We havereduced approximately 700 types to between 36 or 54grammatical generalisations about NPs and shown that aminimally modified generative grammar developed(largely) independently of the test corpus is capable ofcovering 96.88% of the sample considered.
We candemonstrate concretely why this should be so byconsidering the distinct single-constituent NP types fromthe treebank data exemplified by DT* JJ N*, DT* JJ JJN*, and so forth.
In the ANLT grammar this potentiallyinfinite set of types is analysed through the recursiveapplication of four rules of the following broad type: NP-> DET N1, N1 -> AP N1, AP -> A, N1 -> N. Thus apotentially infinite set of NP types is reduced to 4grammatical generalisations.We do not wish to claim that we have developed a'watertight' perfect grammar of the English NP (althoughwe do feel that the ANLT grammar has withstood thisevaluation very well).
There is still the 3.12% or 312NPs that we are unable, at present, to analyse, and thereis good reason to believe that "all grammars leak"slightly.
However, there is little evidence in our resultsto suggest that a few rule-governed grammaticalgenerafisations about naturally occurring NPs of English- 262  -do not effectively demarcate grammatical examples; or tosuggest that the enterprise of generative grammar isdoomed because of the high proportion of rules requiredto deal with residual, particular cases.
On the contrary,our analysis of the failures demonstrates that, for themost part, they are not parsed because of oversights inthe ANLT grammar, ather than because they are deviantin syntactically mysterious ways.Sampson (1987a:226) concludes that the "onus mustsurely be on those who believe in the possibility of NLanalysis by means of comprehensive generativegrammars to explain why they suppose that the shape ofconstituent type/token distribution curves will bemarkedly different from the shallow straight linesuggested by our limited - but not insignificant -database."
However, Sampson's result is suggested bylds analysis of this data, not the data itself.
In this paper,we have demonstrated that a more satisfactory analysisof essentially the same data-base leads to precisely theopposite conclusion.In other respects, the conclusions we should drawfrom this experiment are less positive.
The developmentof wide-coverage grammars for robust parsing ofunrestricted text will only be achieved through extensiveevaluation using naturally occurring data.
This, in turn,rests on the availability of suitably structured corporafrom which the relevant data can be extractedautomatically and on suitable software for semi-automatically testing rules against his data.
The ANLTbatch-mode parsing system proved completely inadequateto the latter task (largely because it was developed tocheck the grammar against a hand constructed set ofshort illustrative, deliberately unambiguous examples).Sampson (1987a) was able to perform a moresophisticated analysis of the treebank sample preciselybecause the original structuring of the data correspondedto his 'theory of grammar and grammatical analysis'.The problems we have had making use of his analysis topreliminarily classify the same data in order to evaluatethe ANLT NP grammar highlight the impossibility ofdeveloping a corpus databank structured in somegrammatically 'descriptive' or 'uncontroversial' fashion(pace Sampson, 1987b).FOOTNOTES1.
The first two authors are also members of and whollyfunded by the speech and language research group IBM(UK) Scientific Centre, Athelston House, Winchester.The third is now at the Computer Laboratory, Universityof Cambridge, Corn Exchange St., Cambridge, CB23QG, UK.2.
The development of this anaiyser was funded by theAlvey Programme and involved three collaboratingresearch projects at the universities of Cambridge,Edinburgh and Lancaster (Briscoe et al, 1987b; Phillips& Thompson, 1986; Russell et al 1986).3.
See Johansson & Hofland (1987) for a description ofthe tagged LOB corpus and Leech et al (1983) for adescription of the lexical disambiguation and taggingprocedure.4.
See Briscoe et al (1987b) for a full description of theANLT grammar formalism and Grover et al (1987,1989) for a description of the English grammarexpressed in this formalism.
Shieber (1986) provides anintroduction to unification-based approaches to generativegrammar.REFERENCESBriscoe, E.J., Craig, I.
& Grover, C. 1987a.
The use ofthe LOB corpus in the development of a phrase structuregrammar of Emglish.
In Meijs (1987).Briscoe, EJ., Grover, C., Boguraev, B.K.
& Carroll, J.1987b.
A formalism and environment for practicalgrammar development.
Proc.
of IJCA/, Milan, pp.
703-8.Briscoe, E.J., Graver, C., Boguraev, B.K.
& Carroll, J.1987c.
Feature defaults, propagation and reentrancy.
InKlein, E. & van Bentham, J. eds.
Categories,Polymorphism and Unification.
Centre for CognitiveScience, University of Edinburgh, pp.
19-35.Chomsky, N. 1957.
Syntactic Structures.
Mouton, TheHague.Church, K. & Patti, R. 1982.
Coping with syntacticambiguity or how to put the block in the box on thetable.
Computational Linguistics, 8, 3-4, 139-49.Garside, R., Leech, G. & Sampson, G. 1987.
eds., TheComputational Analysis of English: A Corpus-basedApproach.
Longman, London.Gazdar, G., Klein, E., Pullum, G.K. & Sag, I.A.
1985.Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar.
Blackwell,Oxford.Grover, C., Briscoe, E.J., Carroll, J.
& Boguraev, B.1987.
The Alvey natural language tools grammar.Lancaster Working Papers in Linguistics, 47.Grover, C., Briscoe, E.J., Carroll, J.
& Boguraev, B.1989.
The ANLT grammar (2nd release).
TechnicalReport No.
162, Computer Laboratory, CambridgeUniversity.Johansson, S. & Hofland, K. 1987.
The tagged LOBcorpus: description and analyses.
In Meijs (1987).Leech, G., Garside, R. & Atwell' E. 1983.
The automaticgrammatical tagging of the LOB corpus.
ICAME News,7, 13-33.Meijs, W. 1987.
ed., Corpus Linguistics and Beyond.Rodopi, Amsterdam.Phillips, J.D.
& Thompson, H.S.
1986.
A parser forgeneralised phrase-structure grammars.
EdinburghWorking Papers in Cognitive Science, 1, 115-137.Russell, G.J., Pulman, S.G., Ritzhie, G.D. & Black.
A.1986.
A dictionary and morphological analyser forEnglish.
Proc.
of Coling86, Bonn, pp.
277-279Sampson, G. 1987a.
Evidence against the "gram-matical/ungrammatical" distinction.
In Meijs (1987).Sampson, G. 1987b.
The grammatical database andparsing scheme.
In Garside et al (1987).Shieber, S. 1986.
An Introduction to Unification.basedApproaches to Grammar.
CSLI Lecture Notes 4,University of Chicago Press, Chicago.~_~ - 263  -
