TENSES AS ANAPHORA*Kurt Eberle Walter KasperInstitut ftir Maschinelle SprachverarbeitungUniversit?t StuttgartKeplerstr.
17West GermanyNet address: nbaa1423@ds0rus54.bitnetAbst ractA proposal to deal with French tenses in the frame-work of Discourse Representation Theory is pre-sented, as it has been implemented for a fragmentat the IMS.
It is based on the theory of tenses ofH.
Kamp and Ch.
Rohrer.Instead of using operators to express themeaning of the tenses the Reichenbachian point ofview is adopted and refined such that the impact ofthe tenses with respect o the meaning of the textis understood as contribution to the integration ofthe events of a sentence in the event structure ofthe preceeding text.
Thereby a system of relevanttimes provided by the preceeding text and by thetemporal adverbials of the sentence being processedis used.
This system consists of one or more ref-erence times and ~emporal perspective ~imes, thespeech time and the location time.
The special in-terest of our proposal is to establish a plausiblechoice of "anchors" for the new event out of thesystem of relevant times and to update this systemof temporal coordinates correctly.
The problem ofchoice is largely neglected in the literature.
In op-position to the approach of Kamp and Rohrer theexact meaning of the tenses is fixed by the resolu-tion component and not in the process of syntacticanalysis.1 Introduct ionOn a Reichenbachian analysis tenses are inter-preted as relating three kinds of temporal en-tities: the time Of the event talked about, thespeech time (time of utterance) and the refer-*The research was done in the context of ACORD (ES-PRIT P393) and LILOG, and was also supported by theGerman Science Foundation (Ro245/13-3)ence time.
In the original version these entitiesare understood as time-points.
In the sequel fre-quently this system was transformed into interval-based approaches to describe the interaction ofadverbials, tenses and aspect on sentence level(cf.
v.Eynde(1987), Bras/Sorillo(1988)) or to de-scribe the course of events on text level (cf.
Hin-richs(1986), Partee(1984)l).
A detailed criticism ofthe Reichenbachian a alysis of tenses can be foundin B~uerle(1979)).
Motivated by text-phenomenathe Kamp/Rohrer approach (1983,1985) splits theReichenbachian reference time into three contextu-ally given parameters by adding temporal perspec-tive points and location times.Our approach which is based on theKamp/Rohrer analysis differs from treatments ofthe semantics of tenses (and aspects) which charac-terize the tenses by some simple operator (usuallyinterpreted as a temporal quantifier) in that respectthat the tenses are described in terms of their con-tribution to the problem of how the temporal struc-ture of the events talked about can be constructed.The problem how to determine the times the con-text has to supply and to which the events haveto be related is largely neglected in theoretical dis-cussions of the semantics of tenses.
It is the maintopic of our discussion.
Special attention has beenpaid to the interaction of tense, aspect and tempo-ral adverbials in determining these relations.
Theapproach represents a unified account of tense andaspects.
Another problem dealt with is the problemof tense switch.We will restrict the discussion to Frenchtenses prevailing in (written) reports about pastevents (imparfait, pass~ simple, passd composd,plusqueparfait, conditionnel).
The tense systemx Partee has discussed at length the parallelism betweennominal and temporal anaphora.
The idea of tenses asanaphora, as developed there, underlies to a certain extentour approach as well.- 43  -concerning the past, in contrast o that relatingto the present or future time, is rather elaborated,especially in French.
A proper theory of tenses hasto account for this multiplicity.2 Represent ing events inDKTIn the framework of Discourse Representation The-ory (DRT) (Kamp(1981)) a Discourse Representa-tion Structure (DRS) is a pair < U, K > consistingof a set U of discourse referents (DRFs) and a setK of conditions.
Discourse Referents are assumedto be sorted according to the following sort sys-tem (for our purposes only the temporal branch isrelevant):all, atemporal, t non-temporal, xdynamic state, sevent, e process, pWe shall use the indicated letters for DRFs ofthe corresponding sort 2.
Conditions take the fol-lowing forms:..3.P(a l , .
.
.
,  an), where P is an n-ary predicatesymbol and the ai are discourse referents.
Con-ditions of this form are also called atomic.
For2-place temporal relations we will also use infixnotation.DRS1 ==~ DRS2t: DRS, where t is a temporal DRFThus DRT uses a variant of the Davidsonianmethod of talking about events: they are treatedas a kind of objects.
But DRT deviates from theDavidsonian representation i  that instead of us-ing additional argument places in the predicates2For simplicity we will use the term event not just for thecorresponding subsort of dynamic but also for dynamic ortemporal objects in general.
For the same reasaa we do notmake a clear distinction between "aspect" and "Aktions-arten".
The intended meaning should be clear from thecontext.
The classification is related to the one given inVendieT(1967).an event discourse referent is put before a DttS re-presenting the nature of the event.
This allows fora recursive definition of aspects and to account foraspectual change.
So the process p of z's travellingwould be written in DRT asand the event of x's travelling to Paris would bewritten asp x parise': p: I travel(x) 1goal(p, paris)DRSs containing conditions as these are embeddedinto models by mapping the temporal DRFs ontoobjects in a domain of temporal objects.
A properembedding is realized if the value of the event-DRF fulfills conditions represented by the sub-DRSwhich the event introduces with respect o an in-terpretation function defined among other thingson predicates uch as travel in the example above.An advantage of this representation the onehand is that, following the usual definition of acces-sibility of DRSs from a DRS used in DRT, restric-tions on the accessibility of DRFs as possible an-tecedents for anaphoras can be expressed, thoughfor our purposes this will play only a subordinaterole.
On the other hand different modes of existencecan be discriminated for the objects DRFs standfor, depending on the position of the sub-DRSs,where these DRFs are introduced, in the DRS ofthe whole text.
In the case of reported speech forinstance, the real existence of a reported episode isnot necessary.
Extensions of the original modelthe-ory ofDRT (cf.
Kamp(1981)) which point in this di-rection are given e.g.
in (Asher(19S6), Reyle(1985),Eberle(1988b)).3 Basic Assumpt ions  of theSemant ics  of Tenses andAdverbia lsThe basic tenses of French narrative texts are im-parfait and pass~ simple.
The interaction of thesetense forms is often described by two pairs of op-position: On the one hand the pass~ simple is usedto describe actions of the narrative, "the course ofevents", whereas the imparfait serves to paint the-44-background ofthe story.
On the other hand the im-parfait can be used to describe vents in progressas viewed from "inside", whereas the pass~ simplepresents the event as a punctual entity.
In order toreflect hese dichotomies we require that an eventintroduced by pass~ simple serves as new referencetime which must not start before the old one, andthat the imparfait ntroduces a state which includestemporally the existing reference time.
In this caseno new reference time Is created.In the case of pass~ simple we do not requirethat the new reference time has to follow com-pletely the old one in order to deal correctly withdiscourse situations as 'elaboration' or 'contrast'and others.
To discriminate such textual functionsan elaborate inference component is needed, whichat present is not available.
In addition there arecases where this inference component would needinformation about the proceeding of the wholestory.
This cannot be made available at this stageof processing.Thus an underspecified relation not-before isnecessary which can be defined, as other relationslike subset (needed for the imparfait), out of the re-lations overlap and before, the only basic temporalrelations used in the system s .The plusqueparfait can be understood as per-fective state giving background information withrespect o the actual reference time of the story,(Jean avait dgj~ mange'), or as introducing or con-tinuing a flashback.The conditionnel is understood as a counter-part to the plusqueparfait describing an anticipa-tion with respect to a perspective point in the past.We think that pass~ compos~ in (written)narrative texts should be treated as analogue tothe pass4 simple with respect to pure temporalrelations 4 .Temporal adverbials provide a location timefor events in relation to the temporal structure ofthe preceding text.
They can differ from each otherby their characterization f the location time andtheir anaphoric behavior.
Deictic adverbials ike de-main, ia semaine derni~re for instance create lo-cation times of different emporal extension withdifferent ordering conditions regarding the evalu-ation time (after and before), but they are simi-lar in that the evaluation time must be the speech3For motivations and definitions cf.
Kamp(1979),Reyle(l~6), Eberle(1988b)).4 For a more elaborate discussion of the French tense sys-tem cf.
Kamp/Rohrer(1985), Eberle(1988c).time, whereas in case of le lendemain, la semaineprdcddante the temporal relations and extensionsare equivalent to the deictic analogues but the timeof evaluation has to be a past reference time or per-spective point.
Frame-time adverbials like ce jour-la can be distinguished from punctual time adver-bials like fi trois heures and from adverbials, likepuis, which simply state a temporal relation bet-ween the event to be introduced and a temporalantecedent.
Some adverbials, like puis and ensuite,do not restrict he nature of the antecedent, i  isjust a reference time.
But maintenant e.g.
requiresthat the evaluation time is a perspective point ofthe text.
The resolution component has to take intoaccount such phenomena.4 Aspects  of Implementat ion4.1 ArchitectureThe construction of the semantic representa-tion for a discourse proceeds in several stages:each sentence is parsed using a Lexical Func-tional Grammar (LFG) (Kaplan/Bresnan(1982),Eisele/DSrre(19S6)) which analyzes entences intofunctional structures (f-structures), augmented byindices to indicate the linear order of words inthe input string.
The f-structure serves as inputfor the construction of a proto-semantic represen-tation (cf.
Reyle(1985), Reinhardt/Kasper(1987)).The last stage consists in integrating this represen-tation into a semantic representation for the dis-course, mainly by doing the necessary resolutionsfor anaphoric expressions.
Accordingly, the systemconsists of three major modules:LFG-Parser: If-structureComposer: IProto-DRSDRS ~ Knowledge baseThe whole system is implemented in PRO-LOG.
Here mainly the Composer and the Resolverwill be discussed with respect to the treatment-45-of the tenses in these modules.
The inference ma-chine and knowledge base are at present not imple-mented.
The proto-semantic representation for asentence built up by the Composer differs from thesemantic representation proper in that it not justcontains the semantic information available fromthe sentence but also morpho-syntactic informationfrom the f-structure needed to constrain the resolu-tion process.
Thereby, this information is passed tothe Resolver which separates semantic and syntac-tic information and uses it.
What sort of morpho-syntactic information is passed will be discussedlater.The concept of resolution here is broader thanthe usual one which comprises mainly determin-ing the reference of anaphoric expressions like pro-nouns.
We use the term as covering all kinds of con-text dependency beyond the single sentence levelwhere something in the sentence has to be relatedto some entity in the preceding discourse.
The termtemporal resolution will be used to refer to the pro-cess of determining the temporal structure of theevents the discourse is about.The Resolver is intended to implement goodheuristics based on purely linguistic knowledge.The evaluation of the readings produced should beleft to the inference machine which also can accessnon-linguistic world knowledge.4.2 Tempora l  Features  in the  F-S t ructureIn the Kamp/Rohrer system the tenses are ana-lyzed by means of four features which have tempo-ral and aspectual meaning:?
PERFectivity,?
P t tO  Gressivity,?
TENSE,?
Temporal PerspectiveTense forms can have several meanings or func-tions in discourse.
Plusqueparfait for instance has areading as flashback, and a perfective state readingwith the temporal perspective "speech-time" or ac-tually reached "reference time".
Imparfait can havethe perspective in the past at the reference time orat the speech time.
Following Kamp/Rohrer(1985),the meanings of the main narrative tenses can bedescribed in the following way:Form TPpasse s.imparfaitimparfaitplusquep.plusquep.plusquep.cond.
I-PAST-PAST+PAST+PAST-PAST+PAST+PASTTENSE \[ PROG \ [PERFpastpast + -pres + -pastpast + +pres + +fut +/-  -Since it is not desirable to represent these am-biguities syntactically we use the Kamp/Rohrercategories in a slightly different way to get uniquedescriptions of the tenses.
It is completely left tothe resolver to account for these ambiguities.
Sincewe exclude the TP-feature we need the additionalTENSE-value conditionnel.
To mark tenses in in-direct discourse the transposed-feature is added:feature valueperf +/.-prog +/-tense past/present/future/conditionneltransposed +/-Since we do not discuss embedded clauses in thispaper, in the following the transposed-feature isskipped.
The tenses are analyzed by these meansas shown in Table 1.4.3 Tenses and Tempora l  Ad junctsin the  ComposerHere we will discuss what sort of information theComposer adds to the Proto-DRS when it encoun-ters a tense feature or temporal adjunct or sub-clause.
It consists basically of two kinds:1.
DRS-conditions, which do not depend on theresolution process2.
Interface structures for the Resolver, called oc-currence information and represented asa 6-place occ-term.The occurrence information is used to transmitmorpho-syntactic information from the parser tothe resolver.
For the tenses this occurrence infor-mation has the formoec(DRF, Pos, TF, Tense, tense, Pointer)- 46 -imparfait: per f - -  -, prog - +, tense ---- pastpass~ simple: perf--- -, prog = -, tense ---- pastpass~ compos~: perf -- ~-, prog -- -, tense -- presentplusqueparfait: perf -- -I-, prog ---- _, tense -- pastconditionnel I: perf -- -, prog = _, tense -- conditionnelTable 1: Decomposition of the Tenses into Semantic MarkersForm DRS Occurrence Informationpresent t: DRSimpaffait t: DRSpass~ simple t: DRSperf.
participle: t: DRSconditionneh t: DRSocc(t,.
,- ,pres,tense,Pointer)occ(t,- ,tf(_ ,?prog,- ),past,tense, Pointer)occ(t,- ,tf(_ ,-prog,_ ),past,tense,Pointer)occ(t,_ ,tf(perf,_ ,_ ),_ ,_ ,- )occ(t,_ ,_ ,cond,tense,Pointer)Table 2: Temporal Information introduced by the Composerwith the following slots:Dt tF  the temporal discourse referent, which theresolution process has to locate, usually intro-duced by the verbPos  verb position in surface structure,TF  tf(Perf, Prog, Tr), the temporal features term.The Perf-slot marks the analytic tenses, Progserves to distinguish for instance imparfait andpassd simple, Tr stands for the value of thelransposed feature.Tense past I present I future I conditionnel, valuesof the tense feature,tense  marker, indicating that the occ-term stemsfrom a tense feature.
It is also the trigger fortemporal resolution.Po in ter  indicates the occurrence of the tense inmain or embedded clauses.
The clauses are in-dexed in a unique way (by natural numbers).The pointer is a pair consisting of the indexof the superordinate clause and the index ofthe clause itself.
Main clauses point to them-selves.
Such an indication is necessary for thetreatment of embedded sentences.
The pointerencodes a simplified tree structure for the sen-tence and allows moving around in the tree.Temporal adjuncts and subclauses also provide oc-currence information marked in a special way.
Theycontribute an occ-term of the following kind:occ(DRF, Pos,_ ,Rel, sel- lime, Pointer)DRF here represents the time introduced by theadverbialPos  its position in the surface structureRe l  the temporal relation introduced.
For instancetrois jours avant introduces before.set - t ime indicates a special resolution mode fortemporal adjuncts and indicates that this in-formation was contributed by a temporal ad-junct.
In the resolution process the marker willcause the DRFs of the tense markers to resolveto DRF .The information shown in table 2 is introduced bythe Composer for the tenses (the " "  represent ini-tially empty slots which get filled in in the processof combining the meanings).It will be noticed that the tenses do not intro-duce new conditions into the DRS since the tem-poral relations cannot be determined without re-spect to the nature of the temporal 'antecedent'and therefore have to be generated in the Resolver.4.4  Tempora l  Reso lu t ionFor temporal resolution the Resolver uses a stackof a system of times consisting of quintuples of theform:- 47  -1. reference time (usually the last event)2. temporal perspective point3.
temporal ocation time (usually identical tothe reference time)4. speech time (at present kept constant for thewhole discourse)5. last resolved tense (with its occurence infor-mation)Every resolution process generates uch a quintu-ple which gets stacked.
If the temporal perspectivepoint is changed (plusqueparfalt and conditionnel),a substack is created and used till the original per-spective point is restored.The resolver emoves the occurrence informa-tion for the tenses and temporal adjuncts from theproto-DRS.
The tenses get resolved according tothe rules discussed below.
The presence of tempo-ral adjuncts changes the flow of resolution as it re-quires that the temporal DRF introduced by theadjunct has to be resolved in accordance with theDRF introduced by the tense.We will illustrate the effect of some resolutionrules reflecting the heuristics of the system by dis-cussing two sample texts.s l  Ce jour-l~ il pleuvait r~s fort.e2 Jean regarda par la fen~tre.s3 Marie n'~tait pas 1?.e4 Il mit son impermSablee5 et sortit.ce jour-ld introduces the location time t for thefirst state, sl ,  (pleuvoir).
The Composer augmentsthe DRS by the condition day(t) and the Resolverby the condition t C sl.
5 The first times-quintupleconsists of a variable for the reference time, (noevent is actually mentioned), the perspective pointis assumed to be the speech time.
The speech timeis fixed by "now", t is the location time and in thelast position the occ-term of sl is stored.
Since areference time does not yet exist, the integrationof e2 produces a temporal relation with respectto the last location time: e2 C t, i.e.
e2 happenswithin t. A second times-quintuple is put onto thestack with the reference time e2 and the new occ-term.
The other time coordinates remain constant.SBecause of the definite description ce jour-ld the NP-Resolver has to establish an equation between t and a DRFof the preceeding text which is a day.
If there is no suchantecedent has to be accomodated.
The latter ease is atpresent not implemented.e2 serves now as reference time for s3.
The new re-lation e2 C s3 is introduced and the informationwhich stems from the occ-term of s3 and the oldtenses is put as a third times quintuple onto thestack.
The reference time is not changed.
It shouldbe noticed that for new states the "smallest" avail-able location time is used.
Normally this is the ref-erence time of the previous quintuple if existent.For it is not necessary that the explicit given loca-tion time, ce jour-lh in the given example, servesas location time for subsequently introduced statesas well.
e4 is ordered with respect o e2, e5 with re-spect to e4 by the not-before-relation a d the times-stack is updated in the obvious way.
All states andevents are located obviously before the speech timenow.
We omit tile full DRS of the example here.e l  Le 6 octobre Pierre arriva ~ Paris.e2 Le 3 octobre il ~tait parti.e3 Le lendemain il avait travers~ l'Espagne.s l  Et maintenant il ~tait l'a.According to the different meanings of theplusqueparfait mentioned in section 3 differentrules are available to deal with the plusqueparfaitof the second sentence.
However, especially in caseswhere a frame time as in the example exists, thepossibility to introduce a flashback is preferred.
Astack in the stack is created and the new eventserves as reference time for subsequent events inthe flashback.
The last reference time of the higherlevel is now regarded as temporal perspective forthe events occcuring in the flashback.
They are lo-calized before that perspective, le lendemain in thethird sentence has to be resolved to an existing ref-erence time, i.e.
el or e2.
Since we are already ina flashback, in processing the plusqueparfait of e3the continuation of this flashback is preferred.
Thusa solution with el as antecedent for le lendernainwould lead to a cyclic structure and should be ruledout by the inference component.
The correct order-ing conditions are given by establishing e2 as an-tecedent for the time introduced by le iendemain,and t as location time for e3.
The perspective timeis copied from the stack.
Thus we get the condi-tions:e2 < t, e3 C t,e3 < elThe embedded stack is updated by the new quin-tuple.The implemented heuristics require that the tenseswitch from a plusqueparfait of a flashback to pass~- 48  -simple or pass~ compos~ or the explicit referenceto the perspective point, for instance by means of"maintenant", always lead to a reactivation of theinitial level, from which the first flashback started,that is, all substacks are popped.
Without main-tenant the imparfait of sl could lead to the con-tinuation of the flashback or to the continuation ofthe main story.
It is regarded as the state variantof both categories.The (simpified) DRS of the example abovethus looks as follows:now t l  t2 t3 el e2 e3 sl6 octobre(tl)el: \[arriver(pierre)\[goal(el) = parisel c t lel < now3 octobre(t2)e2: I partir(pierre) Ie2 C t2e2 < nowe2 < elday(t3)e3: traverser(pierre,espagne) Ie3 C t3e3 < nowe3 < elnext-day(t3,t2)s3: \[ ~tre-~(pierre,paris) \]el C slsl < nowIn our opinion cases as in the example abovecannot be treated without adding new parame-ters to the Reichenbachian system.
At least doingit facilitates the job.
Beyond the imparfait/pass~simple, pass~ compos~-distinction French does notmake use of an explicit morphological spect mark-ing.
Therefore, for instance in the case of condition-nel, treated as anticipation of an episode, we usethe Aktionsart-characterization of the verb storedin the temporal sort of the DI~F to specify the valueof the prog-feature.
An episode of states and dy-namics then is treated similar to an imparfait-pass~simple-story transposed by the stored (past) per-spective time.
By this means we get an interactionof Aktionsarten and tenses.Similar to the case of flashback the tenseswitch from conditionnel to another past tense formmarks the end of the anticipation and the reactiva-tion of the initial level.5 Conc lus ion  and  Prob lemsThe implemented system assigns DRSs to naturallanguage texts in such a way that the partial eventstructure, substructure of the whole DRS, reflectsthe events and temporal relations of the story.
Thesystem is incomplete at present in the following re-spects:The interaction of nominals and aspects is notaccounted for.A principled treatment of tenses in embeddedclauses is missing.The resolution of deictic/anaphoric temporaladjuncts is rudimentary.Knowledge about event ypes is at present notavailable to the Resolver.Thus the output event structure isgenerally under-specified.
The integration of an inference compo-nent combined with background knowledge shouldrestrict the number of possibilities to order theevents linearly.
In dependance of the Aktionsart theevents of the DRS can be assigned subevents mark-ing the boundaries of the event as suggested byMoens and Steedman(1986), (cf.
Eberle(1988b)).These subevents can be regarded as having no tem-poral extension.
Thus on the subevent-level beforeand equivalent exhaust the intuitive possibilities oftemporal relations.
By means of this finer gran-ulation the (linear) event substructure of a DB.Scorresponds to a unique (linear) interval struc-ture provided the event relations before and over-lap are defined in terms of Allen's interval struc-tures (cf.
Allen(1983)).
Thus inferencing systemswhich deal with intervals, as the Allen system, be-come available but also systems which deal withpoint-like events as the event calculus of Kowal-ski/Sergot(1985).
In addition we get the possibilityto deal with temporal relations on different levelsof precision.In Eberle(1988a) the possibilities of monotonicreasoning in partial event structures (in the sense ofthe Kowalski/Sergot-approach) were investigated.It is planned to extend the algorithm suggestedthere which adds deduced events to the structure,in order to deal with measure statements, knowl-edge about hierarchies of event ypes (e.g.
subevent- 49 -typologies) and temporal frames for event types(average duration of an event type).
One aim isto rule out circular structures as mentioned in sec-tion 4.4.
For simple cases we are able to do it yet.In such conflicting cases one has to backtrack tothe Resolver, the Composer or the Parser to gen-erate other readings.
In this sense the suggestedanalysis system is non-monotonic since it generatesother temporal relations if necessary.
When finallya consistent reading has been arrived at, the eventcalculus can be used for non-monotonic reasoning,e.g.to deal with the problem of the validity of lo-cation times with respect to events localized beforeor after events for which an explicit relation of in-clusion holds.References\[1\] Allen, J.
(1983): Maintaining Knowledge aboutTemporal Intervala In: Comm.ACM 26, 1983,pp.832-843\[2\] Asher,N.
(1986): Belie\] in Discourse Representa-tion Theor~ In: Journal of Philosophical Logic 15(1986) pp.127-189\[3\] B~uerle, R.(1979): Temporale Deixis, temporaleFrage: zum pvopositionalen Gehalt deldarativer undinterrogativer S~'tze Ergebnisse und Methodenmoderner Sprachwissenschaft, Band 5, Tfibingen,Narr\[4\] Borillo, A., Borillo, M., Bras, M.(1988): Une Ap-proche Cognitive du Raisonnement Temporei, rap-ports LSI No.286, Toulouse\[5\] Kaplan, R.,Bresnan, J.
(1982): Lexical FunctionalGrammar: A Formal System for Grammatical Rep-resentation.
In: Bresnan, J.
(ed.)
The Mental Rep-resentation of Grammatical Relations MIT Press\[6\] Eberle, K.(1988a): Extensions of Event Structures.In: Proceedings of the Eighth European Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence, Mfinchen 1988\[7\] Eberle, K.(1988b): Partial Orderings and Aktion-sarten in Discourse Representation Theory.
In:Proceedings of Coling, Budapest 1988\[8\] Eberle, K.(1988c): Der Einflull yon Temporaund Temporaladverbien au\] die Erstdlung einerpartidlen Ereignisstruktur im Rahmen der DRTim Projekt "Automatische Tempusanalyse desFrunzSsischen".
Ms. Stuttgart 1988\[9\] Eisele, A.,DSrre, J.
(1986): A Lexicai FunctionalGrammar System in Pralog In: Proceedings of Col-ing, Bonn 1986\[10\] van Eynde, F.(1987): Time.
A Unified Theory ofTense, Aspect and Aktionsar~ Katholieke Univer-siteit Leuven\[11\] Hinrichs, E.(1986): Temporal Anaphora in Dis-courses of English.
In: Linguistics and PhilosophyVol.9,No.1 (1986) pp.63-82\[12\] Kamp, I'I.
(1979): Events, Instants and TemporalReference.
In: B~uerle, R.,Egli, U.,von Stechow,A.
(eds.)
Semantics from Different Points of View,Berlin, Springer\[13\] Kamp, H.(1981): A Theory of Truth and Seman-tic Representatior~ In: Groenendeijk et al(eds.
)Formal Methods in the Study of Language.
Math-ematical Centre Tract, Amsterdam\[14\] Kamp, H.,Rohrer, C.(1983): Tense in Texts.
In:B~uerle, R.,Schwarze, C.,von Stechow, A.
(eds.
),Meaning, Use and Interpretation of Language,Berlin, de Gruyter\[15\] Kamp, H.,Rohrer, C.(1985): Temporal Reference inFrench.
Ms. Stuttgart\[16\] Kowalski,R.,Sergot,M.
(1985): A Logic-Based Cal-culus of Events, In: New Generation Computing4(1) (1985) pp.67-95\[17\] Moens,M.,Steedman,M.
(1986): The Temporal Di.mension in Information Modelling and NaturalLanguage Processing, Acord Deliverable 2.5, Ed-inburgh,1986\[18\] Partee,B.
(1984): Nominal and Temporal Anaphora,in: Linguistics and Philosophy Vol.7,No.3 (1984)pp.243-287\[19\] Reinhardt, K./Kasper, W. (1986): Anaphora Res-olution for Discourse Representation Theory.
MsStuttgart 1986\[20\] Reyle U.
(1985): Grammatical Functions, Dis-course Referents and Quantificatior~ In: Proceed-ings of the Eighth International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, Los Angeles\[21\] Reyle,U.
(1986): Zeit und Aspekt bei der Verar-beitung natllrlicher Spmcher~ Dissertation Institutf~r Linguistik der Universit~t Stuttgaxt,1986\[22\] Vendler,Z.
(1967): Linguistics in Philosophy, Cot-nell University Press, Ithaca, New York- 50  -
