AN APPROACH TO SENTENCE-LEVEL  ANAPHORA IN MACHINETRANSLAT IONGert jan van Noord, Joke Dorrepaal,  Doug ArnoldSteven Krauwer,  Louisa Sadler, Louis des TombeFoundat ion  of Language TechnologyState University of UtrechtTrans 10 3512 JK  UtrechtDept of Language and Linguist icsUniversity of Essex, Wivenhoe Park,Colchester, C04 3SQ, UK.February  15, 1989AbstractTheoretical research in the area of machine translation usu-ally involves the search for and creation of an appropriateformalism.
An important issue in this respect is the way inwhich the compositionality of translation is to be defined.In this paper, we will introduce the anaphoric omponentof the Mimo formalism.
It makes the definition and trans-lation of anaphoric relations possible, relations which areusually problematic for systems that adhere to strict com-positionality.
In iVlimo, the translation of anaphoric rela-tions is compositional.
The anaphoric omponent is usedto define linguistic phenomena such as wh-movement, thepassive and the binding of reflexives and pronouns mono-lingually.
The actual working of the component will beshown in this paper by means of a detailed iscussion ofwh-movement.In t roduct ionTheoretical research as part of machine translation oftenaims at finding an appropriate formalism.
One of the mainissues involved is whether the formalism does full justiceto the idea that the translation of a whole is built fromthe translation of its parts on the one hand and whetherit leaves enough room for the treatment of exceptions onthe other hand.
In other words, the question is in whatway the idea of compositionality is to be defined withina particular formalism.
An answer to this question froman interlingual perspective is given in the literature on theRosetta system (e.g.
Landsbergen 1985).
The CAT frame-work (e.g.
Arnold et a\].
1986) was meant to be an an-swer to the same question, this time for a transfer system,viz.
the Eurotra system.
The MiMo formalism is a re-action to the CAT framework and tries to solve severaltranslation problems by formulating an alternative defini-tion of compositionality.
Phenomena involving anaphoraI such as wh-movement and the coindexation ofpronomi-nais often cause problems for strictly compositional systemssince translation of one word depends on (the translationof) another word, one which can be quite far away in thesentence.
Rosetta tackles this problem by distinguishingbetween rules that are significant with respect o the com-posRionality of translation, so-called meaningful rules, andrules that  are not, referred to as transformations (Appeloet al 1987); in this way the system is not compositional inthe strict sense anymore.
The not ion of compositlonaUtyMiMo adheres to is defined in such a way that anaphoricrelations can be translated compositionally aswell.
In thispaper we wiLi introduce the anaphoric omponent of theMiMo formalism.
It is used to define Linguistic phenomenasuch as wh-movement, the binding of reflexives and pro-nouns, the passive and control phenomena monolinguaLiy.The formalism will be discussed by means of an extensivedescription of a possible analysis of wh-movement.In the next section, we will first discuss and motivate someof the more fundamental characteristics of the MiMo trans-lation system.
Section two will sketch the MiMo formalism1In thls paper the term 'ansphori?'
should be interpreted in thebroaclest lense, as opposed to Chomsky 1981 in which only A-tracesand reflexives are called anaphoric.- 299-as far as necessary for understanding what will follow.
Thecomponent that deais with the treatment of anaphora willbe discussed in section 3.
In the fourth section the ac-tual working of the component will be shown by an elab-orate discussion of wh-movement.
Finaily, the translationof anaphoric relations will be defined and some idea willbe given of the kind of problems that remain and that willhave to be subject to further research.1 MiMoThe MiMo formalism tries to come up with an answer tothe question what compositional translation should imply.Strictly compositional systems have to deal with severaltranslation problems.
As to what these problems exactlyare depends on the nature of the definition of the notioncompositionality.
In general, two kinds of problems canbe distinguished.
First, there are the problems that arisewhen languages do not really match.
Second, the problemsthat occur when translations of two constructions dependon one another.The former type of problem is caused by lexical and struc-tural holes.
It means that source and target representationdo not really match.
Lexical holes occur when a languagelacks words equivalent to the ones in the source language.In the case of structural holes, the target language lacksan equivalent construction rather than a word.
A descrip-tion of the concept will have to be used in these cases.
Foran example of a lexical hole, compare sentence (1) and itstranslation into English (2).
(1) Jan zwemt graag(2) John likes to swimUnlike sentences with an adverb like 'vandaag', (i) cannotbe translated c0mpositionally in the strictest sense.
Thetranslation of (1) is not simply the translation of the partsthe constituent is composed of.
This problem has beensolved in the CAT framework by liberalizing the definitionof compositionaiity in such a way that it will be possible torender (1) directly into (2), by means of a rule like (3).
(4) Jan zwom ge,oonlijkJohn used to swim(5)  Jan zwom gewoonl i jk graagJohn used to  l i ke  to swimThe translation of 'gewoonlijk' requires a rule similar to(3).
However, a combination of 'graag' and 'gewoonlijk'appears to be possible as well.
An additional rule will haveto account for this.
This will lead to an enormous explosionof the number of rules.
It is one of the main reasons for analternative definition of compositionality within the MiMosystem.
The nature of the definition allows the translationof both 'gewoonlijk' and 'graag' in case they cooccur.
Atranslation rule separates a constituent into an ordinarypart and an exceptional part.
Both parts are then trans-lated separately and finally, in the target language, the twotranslated parts are joined again.
In the case of a sentenceconsisting of both 'graag' and 'gewoonUjk', the sentenceis separated into an exceptional part, 'graag' for example,and an ordinary part, the rest of the sentence.
This restagain is separated into an exceptional, 'gewoonlijk', and anordinary part.
The latter is again that which is left be-hind after extraction of the exceptional part.
In the end,all these parts are joined and will make up a constructionin the target language.
So, in M iMo not all daughters aretranslated in one shot but part of a constituent is translatedwhile the rules can still work on the rest of the constituent.An  extensive discussion ofproblerns like these is to be foundin Arnold e.a (1988).The second type of problems w.r.t compositionality intranslation involves translation of phrases that are mutu-ally dependent.
Examples hereof are translations of phrasesthat are anaphorically linked.
Translation requires thatthese relations are established.
Examples are to be foundin (8).
In (6), the relation between the subject and the re-fiexive pronominal is necessary to arrive at the correct formof the reflexive pronominal in French.
In (7), knowledge ofthe functional status of the wh-word is relevant to be ableto generate the right case in German.
(6) the women think of themselves =~les femmes pensent a elles-memes/*ils-memes(7) who did you see =~ wen/*wer/*wem sahest du(3) rl(sl,s2,graag) ==~ r2(t(sl),r3(like,t(s2)))By (3) a construction composed of three daughters, l, s2and 'graag' will be translated into a construction havingtwo daughters, viz.
the translation of sl and a construc-tion that again has two daughters, that is, the verb 'like'and the translation of s2.
The main disadvantage of thisapproach is the fact that combinations of exceptions haveto be described explicitly again, see (4) and (5).In this paper we will examine the component of the MiMoformalism that has been developed to enable the formula.tion of anaphoric relations on the one hand and composi-tional translation on .the other.
The system distinguishesitself from other systems in the field of computational lin-guistics, such as GPSG (Gazdar et al 1985), PATR (seee.g.
Shieber 1986) and DCG (Pereira and Warren 1980)for its central notion of modularity.
The formalism enables- 300 -the writer of rules to express generalizations in a simpleand declarative way.
This will be exemplified in section4.
In an MT context, it is however not enough to es-tablish anaphoric relations monolingually.
The questionis what the behaviour of these relations in translation is.In MiMo, it is possible to translate the relations composi-tionally.
This will be discussed in section 5.2 The basic modelIn this section an overview of the MiMo system will be givenas far as is relevant for the rest of this paper.
The system'sarchitecture is as in (8).
In (8) it is indicated that a text in(8) source textl ana lysesource-I\[ transfertarget-I\[ syntheseta rget  texta source language is parsed into an interface structure (I).This I-structure, in its turn, is translated into an interfacestructure in the target language.
From this structure thetarget language text can then be generated.
In this paper,mainly the construction of I-structures, through analysisand through transfer, will be focused on, hence the impor-tance of understanding what these structures look like inMiMo terms.An I-structure is a tree.
The mother node consists of thelexical identifier (LI, the name of the lexical element), possi-bly provided with a set of features, and a number of slots.Slots can be filled with other I-structures that meet therequirements specified by the slots.
(9) is an example ofan I-structure.
The I-structure (9) has an LI 'kiss' and two(9) k i ss (verb)  (10) k iss (verb)/ \ .\[subjfjohn(n),subj(n) obj(n) obj=mary(n)\]I Ijohn(n)  mary(n)slots, an object slot and a subject slot.
Fillers of these slotswill have to be nominal.
The subject slot has been filled byan I-structure that has 'john' as LI, the object slot by theI-structure with LI 'mary'.
We will abbreviate structureslike these as in (10) henceforth.
So, an I-structure consistsof a certain LI, a feature bundle in parenthesis and a num-ber of slots in square brackets preceded by a dot.
A slotis made up of the name followed by the equal sign and theI-structure that fills it.Possible I-structures are defined in the lexicon.
Distinct(phrase structure) rules that define I-structures are notneeded, all structures are specified in the lexicon.
Gen-eralizations hould be expressed in the lexicon as well.
Theadvantage of this approach is the possibility of defining allsubcategorization phenomena directly.
So, only coherentstructures in the sense of LFG (Bresnan 1982) are built.In the lexicon, the slots have not yet been filled by otherI-structures.
The I-structure for 'kiss' looks like (11) in thelexicon, the question marks indicate that the slot are stillempty.
In (12) the lexical representation f 'john' is given,which has no slots.
When an I-structure can fill the slot of(11) kiss(v) (12) john(n).\[\].\[subj = ?
(n),obj = ?
(n) 3some other I-structure, the features of the slot and thoseof the I-structure are unified (see e.g.
Shieber 1987).
TheI-structures represented so far were simplified for the sakeof readability.
In reality, there is the possibility of indicat-ing whether slots are optional or obligatory.
Slots can alsobe marked with the Kleene star.
The effect of this opera-tor is that the slot is copied when an I-structure fills theslot.
The I-structure will fill the copy and the original slotremains as it was.
The slot can he filled several times byI-structures in this way.
The slot for modmers is in factmarked with the Kleene star 2 .
An I-structure for (13a)looks like (13b) s .
(13) a.
De mooie vrouw ontmoet mannen op zondagThe n ice  woman meets  men on sundayb.
ontmost (v ,present ).
\ [subj  = vrouw(n ,def in i te ).\[mod = mooi (ad j ) .
D ,*mod = ?
( ) \ ] ,obj = man(n,plural).
\ [ *mod = ?
( )S ,mod = op(prep).\[obj = zondag(n),*mod = ?
()\]*mod = ?
()\]Some words in the lexicon can have the special feature2Thls results in a flat structure for modJ~ers, This is perhaps notcorrect from a linguistic point of view.
However, translation ;- oftenmuch slmp\]er this way.
The representation f modifiers is s field inMT that deserves further attention.SNote that the order of slots is quite arbitrary.
Surface order isnot reI~ted to the order of slots in l-structures in any way.- 301  -'anaphor'.
I-structures having this feature will have to bebound by an antecedent in the end.
Examples of these arepronouns and reflexives.
This requirement also holds forempty slots.
They are considered anaphoric and will haveto be bound as well unless we deal with optional slots.Binding of I-structures happens through anaphoric rules.In the next section we will show the way these rules areformulated.
The final structure of (13a) will be (14).
In(14), a relation between the topic (Ii) and the embeddedsubject position (I2) 4 is established s .
The subordinate(14)dat (comp).
\ [ spec  = vroug(n ,de f in i te , I1 ).
\ [  mod = mooi(adj).
D \ ] ,compl = ontmoet(v,present).
\[subj = ?
(n , I2 ) ,obj = man(n,plural).\[\],mod = op(p).\[obj = zondag(n) .D \ ] \ ] \ ] ,{ topic_trace(I1,I2)}complementizer is also regarded as a lexical word.
Evensentences that do not show a complernentizer at surfaceare assigned one.
This is not in any way intrinsic to MiMobut makes a uniform account of several phenomena possi-ble.
This type of cornplementizer has two slots: an optionalslot for topics or wh-words and a slot for a verb construc-tion.3 The definition of anaphoric rela-t ionsAnaphoric relations are defined by a type of rule that isquite different from the ordinary rules.
This distinguishesthe system from, for example DCG.
With PATR and DCGthe possibility of percolation from, say topic to trace, influ-ences all the other ules.
MiMo's approach, a separate typeof rule for the anaphoric omponent, has the advantage ofleaving the other rules, i.e the lexical I-structures, as theyare.
Modularity is one of MiMo's qualities.
This quality isalso considered important in GPSG (Gasdar et al 1985)where it is realized by the use of metarules that multiplythe number of rules.
This would be undesirable in MiMo411 and I2 are unique nantes which are autonmtlcally assigned toevery I-structure.
We will indicate them henceforth as capitalizedwords.
Names to which no further eference is nmde will be omittedfor clarlty's ake.
An I-structure consists of a tree and 8 set of anno-tstlons that denote the anaphoric relations within the tree.
The treeannotated with this set will be called I-object henceforth.6Note that we will usually leave out optional slots thet are notKUedsince every lexical word is its own rule.
So then even thenumber of words would have to be multiplied.The use of a different rule type is also motivated by theprocess of translating anaphoric relations.
If we only usedfeature percolation to encode anaphoric relations, the rela-tions established would not be explicit anymore.
Annota-tions in MiMo are clearly distinguishable from the rest ofthe representation a d as such make it possible to define acompositional translation of them in transfer.Besides being modular, the system also proves to be declar-ative.
Both qualities, modularity and declarativity, en-hance the workability for the user.
Changes and exten-sions are quite easily achieved and rules can be defined ina general way.
An anaphoric omponent written for oneparticular language can often be used for another languagewith minor changes.Anaphoric rules create anaphoric relations within I-structures.
This has two consequences in our system.
In thefirst place, some of the features of antecedent and anaphorare unified.
These features are called 'transparent'.
This,for example, makes it possible to define agreement phenom-ena.
The linguist defines which features are transparentwith respect o a certain rule.
The motivation for this ap-proach is discussed at length in Krauwer et al (1987).
Themain point is that identity of some but not all features isrequired in an antecedent-anaphor relation.
In the secondplace, the I-structure is augmented with an annotation thatspecifies the binding.
This annotation consists of the nameof the relation and the unique names of the nodes betweenwhich the relation exists.
The definition of anaphoric re-lations makes use of these annotations ( ee also section 5).A relation cannot be created unless the correct structuralrelation between antecedent and anaphor exists.
So thegrammar writer defines for each relation:1) the name of the relation2) the transparent features3) the structural relationAn example of an anaphoric rule is the one that estab-lishes a relation between a wh-element and an open slot.The rule looks like (15) e MiMo 7 .
(15) wh_trace : c_command( {wh}, {open} )-{agreement,case}The wh-trace relation is established when the structuralrelation c_cornnmnd holds between a wh-constituent andeIn f~ct, the wh-trace rel~tlon is subject o more restrlct;ons thanc-commandment.
We will return to this in section 4.7A special feature 'open' is used to refer to  open  slots.
All slotshave this feature by default as long ~" they are not filled.
Sot 'open'can be regarded as a feature of the trace ~;nce slots not  (yet )  FtUedcan he considered potential traces.- 302-an open slot?
The agreement features and the case fea-ture are unified if possible, if not, the relation will not beestablished.
The structural relation itself, c_command inthis case, is defined by the user as well.
Either a simplestructural relation is defined or a complex structural rela-tion.
The latter is composed of a regular expression overstructural relations s .
An example of a simple structuralrelation is the sister-relation, defined in (16).
(16) s ister(ANT,ANA) : (17) c_command:?
() .\[ ?
: ?
(ANT), s ister +?
= ?
(ANA) \] ancestorThe structural relation sister holds between the LstructuresANT and ANA if there exists an I-structure in which bothANT and ANA fill slots?
The exact nature of the LIs isnot important nor are the features or the names of theslots, hence their representation asquestion marks in (16) 9?
A complex structural relation is defined by means of aregular expression over structural relations.
The regularexpressions make use of the operators '^', indicating op-tionality, ';' for disjunction, '*' for iterativity (0, 1 or moretimes ) and '+' .
The latter has a special meaning whichcan best be explained by means of the definition of thec_command relation mentioned in (17).
The '+ '  operatorindicates that the sister relation should hold between theantecedent and some intermediate node and the ancestor-relation between this intermediate node and the anaphor.The Prolog-variant of (17) is (18)?
So, the c_command re-lation holds between the I-structures ANT and ANA whenone of ANT's sisters is ANA's ancestor.
The MiMo defini-(18) c_command(Ant,Ana) : -s i s te r (Ant ,X ) ,  ancestor(X,Ana) .tion of 'ancestor' is given in (19a).
The relation is defined interms of the simple relation 'mother'.
The structural rela-tion of the latter is in (19b) 1?
.
Features can be added to thestructural pattern to restrict he range of possible relationsfurther.
This will be illustrated in the fourth section whenwe discuss a possible way of treating wh-movement.
ToaThls idea il partly based on LFG's notion of functional uncer-tainty.
See Kaplan et al 1987.?Note that the order of ANT w.r.t ANA is not relevant since theorder of the slots is not in any way related to word order in thesentence.l?All I-structures are also their own ancestor according to the deft-nlt|onin (19a).
This is the correct result when used in the c_commanddeKnltlon since sisters do c_command one another.
In case this is unodesirable however, the relation could be def ined as follows :ancestor : mother + * motherGenerally, the correct deKrdtlon of a relation llke c.command dependsof course on the use it's being made of in anaphorlc rules and on themake up of the I-structures used.
The definition above should merelybe regarded as an exemplification f the mechanism.
(19) a. ancestor  : * motherb.
mother(ANT,ANA) :?(ANT).
\ [  ?
= ?
(ANA)conclude this section, we give an example of an Lstructureto which (15) applies.
(20b) shows the structure before and(20c) after application of (15).
(20) a. war z ie t  John (what does John see)b?
dat (comp)?
\ [ spec  = war  (wh) .
\[\],compl = zien(v)?
\[subj = john(n , th i rd ,s ing ,masc) ,obj = ?
(open,ace) i \ ]c. dat (comp)?
\ [ spec  : wat(wh,acc, I1) .
\ [ \ ] ,compl = zien(v)?
\[subj = john(n,th i rd,s ing,masc, I2)  ,obj = ?
(open,acc, I3) \ ] \ ] ,{.h_trace(I1,  I3}4 WH-MovementIn this section, the actual working of the anaphoric ompo-nent will be discussed.
We will do this by showing how alinguistic phenomenon like wh-movement could be imple-mented.
Note that none of the linguistics in this sectionfollows from the system.
The aim of the discussion is togive an idea of the power of the anaphoric omponent and ofthe kinds of linguistics that can be put to use.
We will firstintroduce the linguistic environment and present some datafrom Spanish that reflect some of the surface phenomenacaused by the presence of anaphoric relations.
The sectionon the implementation of the wh-relation will argue thatand show how surface phenomena of this nature can behandled deterministically.4.1 Introduct ionThe wh-trace relation seems the most interesting one be-cause it shows both how general and powerful the mecha-nism is and how restrictive the rules should be to accountfor the data?
At least the data shown in (21) should beaccounted for.
In the GB framework (e.g.
Chomsky 1981),wh-movement is seen as an instance of the transformation'move alpha', which respects the subjacency principle.
The- 303  -(21) a. why do you think John left (ambiguous)b. who do you think Bill told me ... Susansaid _ was ill (unbounded dependency)c. *who do you believe the claim that Billsaw _ (violation complex NP constraint)d. *who do you know whether _ left(violation wh-island constraint)e. *who did you whisper _ came(non-bridge verb)(25) a.b.C.hC Co  C tS J S S ~ ?I I\ [ .h  C \ [o  C tS ~ S S ~ 8I II .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Iof complementisers.subjacency principle claims that no rule can relate X andY in the following structure (22):(22) ..X..E...E.Y..\]..\] .
.a b where a, b bounding nodes(23) who \[ .. \[t \[Bill told me \[t \[Susan saw tI s l l s  l l s  II II II IFor English, S and NP are assumed to be bounding nodes.Wh-movement takes place cyclically via the comp-posltionsof the intermediate clauses, leaving behind traces (the so-called comp-to-comp movement).
As such, it does not crossmore than one bounding node at a time in a structure like(23).Our discussion of wh-movement in the next section is inaccordance with the comp-to-comp movement.
Althoughother approaches, uch as direct movement, are feasible too,we win adhere to the comp-to-comp approach.
Data fromSpanish (Torrego 1984) also seem to support he preferencefor actual movement from complementizer to complemen-tizer.
(24) Que \[ dice Juan \[ que \[ creian los dos \[ que \[ habiapensado Pedro \[ que \[ habia aplazado el grupo \[ el grupohabia aplasadoWhat says John that thought he two that believed Peterhad postponed the group ; that the group had postponedAccording to Torrego, inversion is obligatory in all clausesexcept the lowest.
In the lowest clause, inversion is op-tional.
The GB theory accounts for this by claiming thatfor Spanish S-bar, instead of S, is the bounding node.
Thispredicts that movement in the lowest cycle can take placein two ways, as shown in (25).
Neither of the two violatessubjacency.
Assuming that a wh-constituent, or its trace,in comp triggers inversion, the variation in Spanish word-order in the lowest cycle is accounted for.We will return to these data in the next section.
Wewill argue that these data can be handled by the MiMe-mechanism as well, given the correct rules for the binding4.2  Imp lementat ionThe structural relation for wh-movement should reflect heidea that the wh-constltuent may bind across one bound-ing node at most.
Note that, before and after the crossingof this bounding node, it may theoretically cross an unlim-ited number of nodes that are not bounding.
The struc-tural relation that reflects this idea looks like (26b), thewh-trace relation is defined in (26a).
The wh-trace rela-(26) a. wh_trace : sub jacent (wh,open) -~agreement,case~b.
sub jacent :  s i s te r  + sub j_pathc.
sub j_path : *mother (~nobounding~,~)+ "mother (~bound ing~,~)+ *mother(~nobounding~,~)tion is established by the structural relation subjacent be-tween a wh-element and an open slot.
The definition of thesubjacent-relation closely resembles that of c_command.Instead of the relation 'ancestor', a relation 'subj_path' isdefined that specifies a path consisting of one boundingnode at most.
Non-bounding nodes may invervene freely.Subjacency then is not defined as a filter, it is a positiveformulation of possible relations.
Note that (26) is validboth for languages in which S is a bounding node, such asEnglish, and for languages which have S-bar as boundingnode.
The difference in boundedness will be expressed inthe lexicon and the bindings will be established accordingto the definition of subjacency and given the boundednessof particular nodes 11 .As has been shown in (25a) and (25b), the trace can alwaysbe bound in two ways in languages that have S-bar as abounding node, provided there are at least two clauses inbetween the antecedent and the trace.
We can make goodtZThe difference between bridge verbs and other verbs is abe en-coded in the lexicon.
Only bridge verbs allow comp-to-comp move-ment.
The genernlization might be expressed by assigning the featurebounding to sbar complements and modifiers in all other cases.
Likethis, sbar is a bounding node in some cases too.- 304  -use of this in MiMo.
The Spanish synthesis componentcan check whether the comp-position of a clause is eitherfilled or bound.
If so, the clause is inverted.
In this way,the variation in word order in Spanish wh-questions will bequite naturally accounted for.This leaves us to show that our definition of wh-trace in-deed establishes a relation in two dlITerent ways betweenthe antecedent and the open position.
(27b) shows theMiMo version of the structure in (27a).
(27c) indicatesthe way in which the relation is found without binding thecomplementizer in the embedded clause.
The relation 'sis-ter' holds between the antecedent and the node 'pensado'.Ths node in its turn binds the open position 13, throughmother-relations.
The movement involves the crossing ofone bounding node.
(27d) indicates the relation found.(27)a.
I s '  wh Is \[s~ o Is tI Ib.
\[que t \[pensado P. \[que t \[aplazado Erupo t(I1) (I2) (I3)I Ic.
wh_trace: subjacent(wh,open) -person,numbsr,gender,cass~subjacent: s ister(open(wh,I1),pensado)subj_path: mother(pensado(nobounding),que())+ mother(que(bounding),aplazado())+ mother(aplazado(nobounding),open(I3))d. ~ wh_trace( I I , I3)(28) shows that two relations can be found.
The GB struc-ture and the M iMo structure are shown in (28a) and (28b)respectively.
In (28cl), the relation between 11 and I2 isfound and (28c2) shows the one between I2 and 13.
Bothrelations are mentioned in (28d).In (28), the intermediate empty complementiser-position isbound, hence inversion will take place.
In (27) the comple-menti~.er is neither filled nor bound, so no inversion in thiscase.
The data are accounted for in quite a natural andlinguistically sound way.
They are the direct consequenceof the definitions of structural relations and they do nothave to be generated by some kind of arbitrary inversionmechanism.(28)a.
Is' wh Is Is' t \[s tI II Ib.
\[que t \[ pensado P \[ que t \[ aplazado grupo t(II) (I2) (I3)I lJ Ic.1.
wh_trace: subjacent(wh,open)-~person,number,gender,case}subjacent: sister(open(wh,I1),pensado)subj_path: mother(pensado(nobounding),que())+ mother(que(bounding),open(I2))2. wh_tracs: subjacent(wh,open)-~person,number,gender,case~subjacent: s ister(open(wh,I2) ,aplazado)subj_path: mother(aplazado(nobounding),open(I3))d. ~wh_trace(II,I2),wh_trace(I2,I3)}gual account of coindexation is quite an achievement.
Inmachine translation, the most important part of researchdeals with the translation of the relations that were estab-lished monolingually.The I-object to be translated consists of an I-structure an-notated with anaphorlc relations.
An  I-object is the resultof the application of certain anaphoric relations (denotedby the annotations) to a particular I-structure.
The com-positional translation of an I-object is the result of the ap-plication of the translated annotations to the translatedI-structure.
We hold the view that anaphoric relations areuniversal in MiMo.
The translation of a relation betweenthe I-structures I and J is that same relation between thetranslations of I and J.
This is summarized in (29).
(29) the translation of an I-object:The translation of an I-object Ii is the result of the appli-cation of the translations of the annotations of I1 to thetranslation of Ii's I-structure.
The translation of an anno-tation RCI,J) is R(tCl),t(J)).The final set of anaphoric relations of the target objectshould be equivalent to the set that existed at the sourcelevel.
The following example illustrates principle (30) :The t rans la t ion  o f  anaphor ic  rela-t ions(30) Por que \[ dice Juan \[ que \[los dos creian \[ que \[ Pedrohabia pensado \[ que \[ el grupo habia aplazado la reunionWhy say John that the two thought that Peter believedthat the group postponed the meetingIn this section, we intend to give an impression of the use-fulness of coindex relations in translation and the transla-tion of the relations themselves.
In linguistics, a monolin-Inversion being obligatory in all clauses except he lowest,'por que' can only bind the modifier position in either thefirst or the second clause.
Each relation further down is ex-- 305 -cluded as more clauses would have to show inversion then.When we ignore the bindings established at the SpanishI-level, translation into English will produce a lot of pos-sible translations since 'that' rnhy or may not be insertedin every complementiser position in English.
However, theimpact of this cornplementizer on possible anaphoric rela-tions is not totally irrelevant.
According to WAHL (1987),the complementizer blocks binding of 'why' to an emptyposition deeper down, cf.
(31) and (32).
(31) why(i)/(j) do you think _(i) the boat sank _(j)(32) why(i) do you think _(i) that the boat sank _(37).
(37) Hoe graag zwom Jan =:, How much did John like toswimSince 'graag' is displaced, translation of 'graag' as the ex-ceptional part of the embedded sentence is not possible,given that the movement is not undone 12 .
These casesare even noncompositional from MiMo's tolerant view oncompositionality.When we preserve the bindings from Spanish and we claimthat in English 'that'  may never be inserted when its mod-ifier position is bound to an antecedent, we can determin-istically arrive at the right translation :(33) Pot que \[ dice Juan \[ que \[los dos creian \[ que \[ Pedrohabia pensado \[ que \[ el grupo habia aplazado la reunion(34) Why \[ did John say \[ \[ the two thought \[ that \[ Peterbelieved \[ (that) the group had postponed the meetingBoth are ambiguous ince both can question the reasonfor John's 'saying it' and 'the two believing it'.
Other in-terpretations are excluded in both Spanish and English.Definition (29) also causes some problems.
Take the fol-lowing example from Italian (cf.
Chomsky 1981) :(35) l'uomo \[che mi domando \[chi abbia visto\]\]the man(i) of whom I wonder who(j) e(i) saw e(j)One might wonder what the English translation would haveto be in the first place.
In MiMo, the incorrect literal trans-lation will not be found because the necessary anaphoric re-lations cannot be established.
In cases like these, separatetranslation rules are needed to arrive at a translation of(35).
It is possible to refer explicitly to anaphoric relationsas long as they are restricted in depth.
This is necessary incase an expression without anaphorlc relations translatesinto one which requires s linking between an antecedentand an anaphor.
An example is (36).
(36) Jan zwernt graag =~ John(i) likes _(i) to swimUnboundedly deep embedded relations are however not ac-cessible by translation rules in the transfer component.Another problem we face deals with the interaction ofanaphora nd other standard 'non-compositional' phenom-ena, such as the example of Dutch 'graag' translating as'to like' in English (see section 1).
These examples, as wellas anaphora, can be handled compositlonally, as we haveshown.
The interaction however poses some problems, seeConclusionIn this paper we showed the need for a non-standard notionof compositionality in translation.
With the MiMo defini-tion of compositionality we are able to define the transla-tion of sentence level anaphora.
In MiMo, anaphoric rela-tions are defined by a separate type of rule.
This enableslinguists to define anaphoric relations in a declarative andmodular way.
It appeared that linguistic generalizationscan be defined quite naturally and generally.
It is up tothe linguist to decide which generalizations are to be pre-ferred and how they can best be expressed.
We chose toformulate principles in a general way.
The relation 'subja-cent' was meant o serve all languages.
Restrictions, e.g.
bysemantic features, can be added freely.
The definitions re-late to information that is encoded in the language-specificlexicon.
This produces the variations that exist across lan-guages.The use of a separate type of rule enables a compositionaldefinition of the translation of anaphorlc relations becausethe applied rules are still visible - as annotations - in thestructure to be translated.
The translation of an I-objectwas defined as the translation of the I-structure to whichthe translations of the anaphoric rules applied.
The trans-lation of an anaphoric rule is the target equivalent of thatrule.
This point of view poses problems in cases where thesource language is less restrictive than the target language.In that case, special rules have to be written to assign atranslation onetheless.
When a particular elation (readalso : interpreation) has been established in the source lan-guage, it should be present in the target language.
Allinterpretations should be translated of course.
This is notyet possible in the current system when unboundedly deeprelations need to be seen in the transfer component.t2It is of course also possible to assume that 811 wh-movmuents havebeen undone.
In Mimo, this only means ~ shift of problems from thetransfer to the analysis and synthesis modules.
Besides, the issuewould still hold for other long-dlstance phenomen8 like pronouns.- 306-AcknowledgementsThe work we report here hscl its beginnings in work withinthe Eurotra framework.
MiMo however is not "the" officialEurotra system.
It differs in many critical respects frome.g Bech & Nygaard (1988).
MiMo is the result of the jointeffort of Essex, Utrecht and Dominique Petitpierre fromISSCO, Geneve.
The research reported in this paper wassupported by the European Community, the DTI (Depart-ment of Trade and Industry) and the NBBI (NederlandsBureau voor Bibliotheekwezen Informatieverzorging).S Shieber, 1986: An introduction to unification based ap-proaches to grammar.
CSLI 1988.E Torrego, 1984: "On Inversion in Spanish and Some of ItsEffects", I, inguistic Inquiry 15, 103-130.WAHL, 1987: :I Aoun; N Hornstein; D Lightfoot; A Wein-berg: "Two types of locality" Linguistic Inquiry 18, 4.ReferencesL Appelo; C Fellinger; 3 Landsbergen, 1987: "Subgram-mars, Rule Classes and Control in the Rosetta TranslationSystem" in: European Chapter A CI,.
1987 Copenhagen.D Arnold; S Krauwer; M Rosner; L des Tombe; G Varile,1986: "The CAT framework in Eurotra: A theoreticallycommitted notation for MT".
in: Proceedings of Coling.Bonn 1986.D Arnold; S Krauwer; L des Tombe; L Sadler, 1988: "Re-laxed compositionality in Machine Translation".
in: Sec-ond International Conference on Theoretical and Method-ological issues in Machine Translation of Natural Lan-guages Carnegie Mellon Univ.
Pittsburgh 1988.A Bech; A Nygaard, 1988: The E-framework: s formalismfor natural language processing", in: ProceediNgs ofColing.Boedapest 1988.:l Bresnan (ed) 1982: The Mental Representation ofGram-matical Relations.
Cambridge MIT press.
1982.N Chomsky 1981: Lectures on Government and Binding.Foris Dordrecht, 1981.G Gazdar; E Klein; G Pullum; I Sag, 1985: General-ized Phrase Structure Grammar.
Blackwell Publishing andCambridge Mass.
1985.R Kaplan; J Maxwell; A Zaenen, 1987: "Functional Uncer-tainty".
CSLI Monthly vol 2, no 4 january 1987.S Krauwer; M King (eds), 1987: The Eurotra ReferenceManual 3.0J Landsbergen, 1985: "Isomorphic Grammars and their usein the Rosetta Translation system", in King, M (ed) Ma.chine Translation Today Edinburgh university press 1985.F Pereira ; D Warren, 1980 : "Definite Clause Grammarsfor Language Analysis - A Survey of the Formalism and aComparison with Augmented Transition Networks".
Arti-ficial Intelligence 13 F Pereira ; S Shieber, 1987: Prologand Natural ?anguage Analysis.
CSLI 1987.- 307-
