EMPIRICAL STUDIES OF DISCOURSE REPRESENTATIONSFOR NATURAL LANGUAGE INTERFACESNtis Dahlb~ick Ame JOnssonNatural Language Processing LaboratoryDepartment ofComputer and Information ScienceLinkOping University, S-581 83 LINKOPING, SWEDENIntemet: NDA@LIUIDA.SE, ARJ@LIUIDA.SEPhone +46 13281644, +46 13281717ABSTRACTWe present the results from a series of ex-periments aimed at uncovering the discoursestructure of man-machine communication in nat-ural language (Wizard of Oz experiments).
Theresults uggest the existence of different classesof dialogue situations, requiring computationaldiscourse representations of various complexity.Important factors seem to be the number of dif-ferent permissible tasks in the system and to whatextent the system takes initiative in the dialogue.We also analyse indexical expressions and espe-cially the use of pronouns, and suggest a psy-chological explanation of their restricted oc-currence in these types of dialogues.INTRODUCTIONNatural Language interfaces will in the fore-seeable future only be able to handle a subset ofnatural language.
The usability of this type of in-terfaces i  therefore dependent on finding subsetsof natural language that can be used without heuser experiencing inexplicable "holes" in the sys-tem performance, i.e.
finding subsets for whichwe can computationally handle completelinguistic and conceptual coverage.
This points tothe need for theories of the 'sublanguage' or'sublanguages' used when communicating withcomputers (Kittredge and Lehrberger, 1982).
Butunfortunately: "we have no well-developed lin-guistics of natural-language man-machine com-munication."
(von Hahn, 1986 p. 523)One way of tackling this problem is to sim-ulate the man-machine dialogue by letting userscommunicate with a background system throughan interface which they have been told is a naturallanguage interface, but which in reality is a per-son simulating such a device (sometimes called aWizard of Oz experiment, see Guindon, Shuld-berg, and Conner, 1987).
While not being a newtechnique, early examples are Malhotra (1975,1977), Thomas (1976), and Tennant (1979,1981), only a limited number of studies havebeen conducted so far.
A considerably largernumber of similar studies have been conductedwhere the users knew that they were communi-cating with a person.
This is unfortunate, sincethose researchers who have considered the issuehave noted that the language used when commu-nicating with a real or simulated natural languageinterface has differed from the language used inteletyped ialogues between humans, although ithas been difficult o the exact nature of these dif-ferences.
The language used has been describedas 'formal' (Grosz, 1977), 'telegraphic'(Guindon et al 1987), or 'computerese' (Reilly,1987).Only a few Wizard of Oz studies have beenrun, using different background systems and dif-feting in questions asked and methods of analysisused.
It is therefore premature to draw any far-reaching conclusions.
With some caution, bow-ever, perhaps the following can be accepted as asummary of the pattem of results obtained so far:The syntactic structure is not too complex(Guindon et al 1987, Reilly, 1987), and presum-ably within the capacity of current parsing tech-nology.
Only a limited vocabulary is used(Richards and Underwood, 1984), and even witha generous number of synonyms in the lexicon,the size of the lexicon will not be a major stum-bling block in the development of an interface(Good, Whiteside, Wixon, and Jones, 1984).However, it is unclear how much of this vocabu-lary is common across different domains anddifferent tasks, and the possibility of porting sucha module from one system to another is an openquestion.
Spelling correction is an important fea-ture of any natural language based system.
So-called ill-formed input (fragmentary sentences, el-lipsis etc) is very frequent, but the use of pro-nouns seems limited (Guindon, et al 1987, J0ns-son and Dahlb/~ck, 1988).,However, the results concerning ill-formed-ness are difficult o evaluate, mainly because theyare often presented without an explicit descriptionof the linguistic representation used.
An utterancecan obviously only be ill-formed relative to aformal specification of well-formedness.
Withsome hesitation the exclusion of such a specifi-cation can perhaps be accepted as far as syntax is- 291  -concemed.
Both linguistic theory and our lin-guistic intuitions are adequately developed toguarantee some consensus on what counts as un-grammatical (though the written language bias inlinguistics (Linell, 1982), i.e.
the tendency to re-gard the written language as the norm, and toview other forms as deviations from this, has inour opinion lead to an overestimation f the ill-formedness of the input to natural language in-terfaces also in this area).
But when it comes todialogue aspects of language use, we lack boththeory and intuitions.
What can be said withouthesitation, however, is that the use of a connecteddialogue, where the previous utterances set thecontext for the interpretation f the current one, isvery common.It is therefore necessary to supplement previ-ous and on-going linguistic and computational re-search on discourse representations with empiricalstudies of different man-computer dialogue situa-tions where natural language seems to be a usefulinteraction technique.
Not doing so would be assensible as developing syntactic parsers withoutknowing anything about he language they shouldparse.Other researchers have proposed the use offield evaluations as they are more realistic.
How-ever, doing so requires a natural anguage in-terface advanced enough to handle the users lan-guage otherwise the evaluation will only test theNLI's already known limitations, as shown byJarke, Turner, Stohr, Vassilou & Michielsen(1985).METHODWe have conducted a series of Wizard of Ozexperiments.
There are two important aspects toconsider when developing the experimental situ-ation.
The first concerns the background system.It should in our opinion be something that couldrun on a computer using the technology of todayor at least tomorrow m to ensure that the in-fluence of the situation does not invalidate the useof data and results when developing a naturallanguage interface.
Great care should also begiven to the design of the scenario, i.e.
the taskgiven to the subjects.
Obviously, any simple taskwhich only requires a few interactions betweenuser and system will not give us much data toanalyze.
Our experience shows that one shouldeither give the subjects atask for which there doesnot exist a single correct answer, but where thesubjects own preferences determines what countsas a satisfying oal, or by having a task wherethere exists more than one way to achieve thegoal.When conducting a Wizard of Oz experiment itis important to ensure that the subjects believethey are using a computer.
To achieve this wehave developed an experimental environment witha number of tools.
The use of windows giveseasy access to all relevant systems.The 'wizard'has at his disposal windows monitoring the user,the background system, an editor and windowswith parsers or other modules developed for thecurrent application.
Menus with prestored(partial) answers guarantee a consistent, fast out-put with a 'computerized' quality (Dahlbtick andJtnsson, 1986).Generalizability of results requires experimentswith a variety of background systems, scenariosand many subjects.
We have used five differentscenarios for five background systems of varyingcomplexityl; one library database used at our de-partment and four simulated advisory systems:one student advisory system; one wine selectionadvisory system and two advisory-and-ordersystems m one for HIFI equipment and one fortravel.
We have collected ialogues from 21 sub-jects.
Approximately half of them were students.The subjects' previous experience with computerswere limited or nonexistent.THE DISCOURSE MODELThe collected corpus should be analyzed withan explicit formalism in mind.
Our goal is not todevelop ageneral discourse model, but instead tofind the simplest possible usable model for naturallanguage interface applications (or some subclassof such applications).The interface consists of three modules.
Oneresembles a question-answering system withoutany dialogue handling capabilities.
This willtransform the user input into the appropriatequery-language command or other backgroundsystem input, given that enough information isavailable in the user's utterance.
Another(linguistic ontext) module is used when the inputdoes not contain enough information to form a1This figure does not include pilot studies.
Wehave recently conducted experiments using acombined graphical and NL calendar booking system.Since this communication situation differs from theothers, we have excluded these data from the presentanalysis.- 292 -command to the background system.
This moduleuses the immediate linguistic context, i.e.
theuser's and the system's last utterance, and tries tocomplete the fragmentary input.
Simple forms ofindexicality will be handled here, e.g.
ellipsis andpronouns that can be resolved by available sur-face structure linguistic information.
The thirdmodule uses a case-frame like representation fthe current discourse domain (task) 1.
Hereutterances whose interpretation requiresbackground knowledge can be interpreted.
Oneconsequence of the use of this latter module is thatit is necessary to specify the task structure of thediscourse domain in advance of the analysis.
Thisapproach differs from linguistically orientedapproaches todiscourse analysis, where the taskstructure of the dialogue is found through thelinguistic analysis.ANALYSIS CATEGORIESWe divide our utterances into four differentcategories (c.f.
LineU, Gustavsson and Juvonen,1988): 1) Initiative means that one of the par-ticipants initiates a query.
2) Response is whena participant responds to an initiative, such as ananswer to a question.
3) Resp/Init is used whena new initiative is expressed in the same utteranceas a response.
Typical situations are when thesystem has found an answer and asks if the sub-ject wants to see it.
The utterance type 4) Clari-fication is used in reply to a Response of typeClarification request and indicates what type ofclarification is used.
Jtnsson and Dahlb~tck(1988) describe and discuss the analysis cate-gories in more detail.Task and ContextInitiatives are analyzed ("tagged") for ContextDependence which concems the interpretation ofan utterance.
We tag an utterance Context De-pendent if it cannot be interpreted without infor-mation in the immediate context.
Every utterancethat is complete nough to be interpreted withoutcontext is tagged Context Independent, regardlessof the possible xistence of a usable context in theprevious utterance.
Initiatives are tagged TaskDependent if background knowledge is requiredfor their interpretation.1 We use the term Task in this paper.
The notionis similar to what we previously called Topic(Dahlback and JOnsson 1988, JOnsson and Dahlbltck1988).Indexica l i tyWe tag our Context Dependent u terances forindexicality using three main categories: pronoun,ellipsis and definite description.
It is important tonote that there is a difference between these types,since they vary in their dependence of a specifictheory or discourse representation model.
Whatcounts as a pronoun can be determined lexicaUy,and presents no major problem.
But what countsas an ellipsis is dependent on the grammar used inthe analysis, and to count a definite description ascontext dependent simply because there existssomething in the previous text that could be seenas its antecedent seems omewhat dubious.
In ouropinion such an utterance should be called contextdependent only if knowledge of the precedinglinguistic ontext is necessary for finding its ref-erent in the discourse representation, i.e.
that theantecedent is necessary for determining the refer-ent.
And this is obviously dependent on the qual-ities of the discourse representation a d the pro-cess working on it.Tagging a pronoun is usually straightfor-ward, but there are some utterances which areambiguous.
For instance, the Swedish pronoundet (it) may act as an anaphoric pronoun or as aformal subject in various types of constructions,e.g.Traveh1:26 What does it cost?
2 \[Vad kostardet?\].
This is a question to a previous responsesuggesting a hotel to live in.
The it in Travel: 1:26can be interpreted either as pronoun referring tothe hotel, or it can be a formal subject and thenthe utterance is elliptical.
There are five utterancestagged ambiguous (all from the travel dialogues)and they are not included in the results.Definite descript ions are definite NP's orother definite referents like demonstratives, .g.HiFi:l:5 What is the price for a complete hifisystem with these models.\[Vad blir priset fi~ren komplett hifi-anldggning med dessa rood.eUer.l.
Proper names are not tagged as definitedescriptions.Ellipsis is a problematic category, cf.
above.Our basic criterion is semantic incompleteness,thus one word phrases, except for some impera-2All examples are from our corpus.
The first fieldindicate the dialogue, the second subject and finallyutterance number.
The bold face does not occur in thedialogues.
The corpus is in Swedish and translatedinto English striving for verbatim rather thanidiomatic orrectness.- 293 -fives and expressives (Yes, Help, Thanks etc), aretagged ellipsis e.g.
C line:4:5 prerequisites?\[fOrkunskaperl asresponse to a list of courses.We also use ellipsis for comparative constructionswithout expression of the comparative object e.g.Wines:4:9 Is there any cheaper white wine \[Finnsdet migot billigare vitt vin\].However, in spite of the fact that we have notused an explicit grammar, we have also regardedsyntactic incompleteness as a ground for taggingan utterance lliptical.
Certain questions likeHiFi:3 :12 price sondek \[pris sondek\] are taggedelliptical for syntactic reasons.
On the other handimperative utterances like HiFi:3 :28 Order Sondek\[Best~ll Sondek\] are not tagged context dependentand thus not indexical at all.
This might seeminconsequential, but is in fact a reflection of thecharacteristics of our assumed grammar.RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONThere are 1047 utterances in our corpus.
Ofthese, 38% are Initiatives, 48% Responses, 10%Resp/lnit, and 4% Clarifications.
Table 1 and 2 inthe appendix summarize some of our results.
58%of the Initiatives are Context Independent, i.e.
ut-terances that can be interpreted in isolation.However, of these about 10% are dialogue open-ings.
This means that only 48% of the Initiativeswithin the dialogues can be interpreted in isola-tion.Context  Dependenc iesThe complete set of data concerning the num-ber of context dependent u terances and the dis-tribution of different types of context dependencyare presented in the appendix.
While we believethat the data presented here give a correct overallpicture of the qualities of the language used in thedialogues, the previously mentioned caveat con-ceming the theory dependency of the data, espe-cially as regards ellipsis and definite descriptions,should be kept in mind.
We will for the same rea-sons in this paper concentrate our discussion onthe usage of pronouns in the dialogues.Thenumber of Context Dependent u terances are 167or 42%.
Thus, when the users are given the op-portunity to use connected discourse, they will weven when the response times (as in our case) oc-casionally seem slow.The most common forms of indexicality areellipsis (64%) and definite descriptions (29%).The use of pronouns i  relatively rare, only 16%.The limited use of pronouns is not somethingfound exclusively in our corpus.
Similar resultswere found by Guindon et al(1987), where only3% of the utterances contained any pronouns.While being to small an empirical base for anyconclusive results, this does suggest that the useof pronouns are rare in typed man-computer di-alogues in natural anguage.
Some suggestionswhy this should be the case can be found in astudy by Bosch (1988) on the use of pronouns inspoken dialogues.
He argues for a a division ofthe focus structure into two parts, explicit andimplicit, and claims that "explicit focus is typi-cally, though not exclusively, accessed by meansof unmarked referential expressions (typically de-accented anaphoric pronouns), while implicitpronouns focus is accessed only by marked e-vices, including accented pronouns"(Bosch,1988, p 207).
What is interesting with this anal-ysis in the present context, is that para-linguisticcues (accent) is used to signal how the pronounshould be interpreted.
Since this communicativedevice is absent in written dialogues, this couldexplain why the subjects refrain from using pro-nouns.We believe this to be an expression of a gen-eral principle for the use of pronouns.
Since apronoun underspecifies the referent compared to adefinite description, there is every reason to be-lieve that language users following Grice's(1975) cooperative principle should only usethem when the listener/reader ffortlessly canidentify the intended referent.
This is supportedby data from Fraurud (1988), who analyzed theuse of pronouns in three different types of unre-stricted written Swedish text.
She showed that for91% of the 457 singular pronouns a very simplealgorithm using only syntactical informationcould correctly identify the antecedent, which in97.4% of the cases were found in the same orpreceding sentence.
Similar results have also beenobtained by Hobbs (1978).We obtained results imilar to those of Fraumd(1988) as regards the distance between thepronoun and its antecedent.
All our antecedentswhere found in the immediate linguistic ontext,except for one problematic category, the pronounman (one/you), excluded in her study which oftenrefers to some global context, e.g.
C line:5:lODoes one  read mechanics \[Ldser man mekanik\].We will by no means conclude from this that itis a simple task to develop a computational dis-course representation for handling pronouns.
Aspointed out by Shuster (1988), it is often unclearwhether apronoun refers to the whole or parts ofa previously mentioned event or action.
Whilethis underspecification in most cases seems to- 294-present no problems for human dialogue partici-pants, it certainly makes the computational man-agement of such utterances a non-trivial task.Task structureThe results concerning task structure are in-teresting.
It is perhaps not too surprising that thetask structure in a data base application is simple.Here one task is introduced, treated, finished, anddropped; and then another is introduced.
Abasically similar pattern is found in the advisorysystems.The advisory-and-order systems, however,shows a completely different picture.
These sys-tems are in an important sense more complicated,since two different ypes of actions can be per-formed; obtaining information or advice, and or-dering.
The collected ialogues how that thesetwo tasks are executed in parallel, or rather thatthey are intertwined.
The consequence is that wehave two active tasks at the same time.
For in-stance, in the HIFI simulations the interlocutorsshift rapidly between discussing the orderedequipment, its total price, etc, and discussingtechnical information about available quipment.7% of the initiatives are task shifts in this sense.The problem is, that while it presents no difficultyfor the human reader to follow these task shifts, itis difficult to find any surface cues indicatingthem.
The computational mechanisms for han-dling this type of dialogue will therefore presum-ably be more complex than for the other applica-tions that we have studied.
In our opinion thisconfirms Grosz' (1977) observation that there aredifferent ypes of dialogues with different askstructure.
It also indicates that categories such asdata base and expert systems are not always themost relevant when discussing application areasfor NL-techniques.System initiativesThe system's linguistic behaviour seems to in-fluence the language used by the user in an im-portant sense.
The utterance type Resp/Init re-fleets how often the system not only responds toan initiative, but also initiates anew informationrequest.
This is used more frequently in threesimulations.
This ought o result in the number ofContext Dependent initiatives being lower than inthe other dialogues, because the user has here al-ready provided all the information eeded.
Thishypothesis i  corroborated in two of the threesimulations (PUB and Wines).
They have 17%respective 29% context dependent initiativescompared to the average of 42%.
(We do not tagwhether aresponse is context dependent ornot.
)The result is interesting, because it indicates thatthis is a way of 'forcing' the user to use a lan-guage which is computationally simpler to ban-die, without decreasing the habitability of thesystem, as measured in the post-experimentalinterviews.As mentioned above, this pattern is not foundin the third system, the travel advisory system.This system belongs to the advisory-and-orderclass.
We cannot at present explain this differ-ence, but would still claim that the result obtainedis interesting enough to deserve a thorough fol-low-up, since databases and advisory systemspresently are the largest potential application areasfor NLIs.Indirect speech actsIndirect speech acts (Searle, 1975) have beenone of the active areas of research in computa-tional inguistics.
It can perhaps be of interest tonote that here are only five indirect speech acts inour corpus, all of which use standardized ex-pressions (Can you tell me ...?
etc).
Beun andBunt (1987) found a higher frequency of indirectrequests in their corpus of terminal dialogues(15%).
However, this frequency was consider-ably lower than in their control condition of tele-phone dialogues (42%).
Taken together, theseresults seems to support our belief that some ofthe reasons for using indirect means of expressiondoes not exist in man-computer dialogues innatural anguage (c.f.
Dahlb~lck and JOnsson,1986).The lack of variation in the expression of in-direct speech acts is perlaaps not all that surprisingwhen viewed in the light of psychological re-search on their use.
Clark (1979) expandedSearle's (1975) analysis by distinguishing be-tween convention of means and convention offorms for indirect speech acts; the former coversSearle's analysis in terms of felicity conditionsand reasons for performing an action, the latterthe fact that can you open the window?
is a con-ventional form for making an indirect request,whereas Is it possible for you to open the win-dow?
is not.
Gibbs (1981, 1985) demonstratedthen that what counts as a conventional form isdependent on the situational context in which itoccurs.
There is therefore in our opinion goodreasons to believe that indirect speech acts can behandled by computational methods impler thanthose developed by Perrault and co-workers,something which in fact seems compatible withthe discussion in Perrault and Allen (1980).
Inconclusion, we believe that indirect speech actsare not as frequent in man-computer dialogues as~-U - 295  -in human dialogues, and that most of them use asmall number of conventional forms which sug-gests that computationally tractable and cost-ef-fective means of handling them can be found.Task  and  d ia logue  s t ructureWhen developing N-L-technology, it is impor-tant to try to assess the applicability domain of asystem.
As mentioned above, the major dividingline between different classes of systems in ourcorpus eems not to be between database and ex-pert (advisory) systems.
But there are importantdifferences between these and the third class usedin this study, the advisory-and-order systems.
Inthese cases more than one task can be performed,asking for information and giving an order.
Thismeans not only that the discourse representationneeds to be more complicated, which in turncauses problems when trying to find the referentof referring expressions, but that it becomes nee-essary to understand the iUocutionary force of theutterance.
As was shown in the Planes system(Waltz 1978) when all the user can do with thesystem is to request information, all input can betreated as questions, thus simplifying the analysisof the input considerably.
But this is of coursenot possible in these cases.
The problem thiscauses becomes especially clear in dialogueswhere the user follows Grice's quantitativemaxim as much as possible, something whichoccurs in some of our HiFi dialogues, where oneor two word utterances are very common.
From acommunicative point of view this is a very naturalstrategymif one is engaged in an informationseeking dialogue sequence r questing informationabout the price of different uners, there is noneed to say anything more than the name of oneof them, i.e.
specify the referent, but taking theillocutionary force and the predicate to be given.And when one is satisfied with the information,and wants to order the last one, why say some-thing more than order, i.e.
only specify the illo-cutionary force?
What makes this problematic sof course that in some cases what is ordered isnot only the last mentioned item, but a number ofthem, namely the set defined by the last men-tioned tuner, amplifier, turn-table and loudspeak-ers.
But realizing this requires knowledge of whatconstitutes as HiFi set.Without pursuing the examples further, wewish to make two comments on this.
The first isthat delimiting the classes or subsets for whichNL-technology with different capabilities aresuitable seems to depend more on the task situa-tion than on the computer technology of the back-ground system.
The second is that since thecommunicative b haviour described in the previ-ous section can be seen to be in accordance withestablished theories of dialogue communication,and since it, in spite of the terseness of the utter-ances, seems to present no problems to the humandialogue participants, it seems omewhat s rangeto classify such utterances as ill-formed or inother ways deviant, something which is notuncommon.
Chapanis (1981, p 106) claims that"natural human communication is extremely un-ruly and often seems to follow few grammatical,syntactic and semantic rules".
And Hauptman andRudnicky (1987, p 21) takes this to be supportedby Grosz (1977) "whose protocols how incom-plete sentences, ungrammatical style, ellipsis,fragments and clarifying subdialogues".
Perhapsthese examples demonstrate an extreme form ofthe written language bias, but in our opinion anyanalysis howing that a large part of a commu-nicative vent breaks the rules of communicationshould lead to a questioning of the validity of theformulated rules.
Perhaps present day analysis ofthe structure of language in dialogues (includingour own) is too much influenced of the traditionallinguistic analysis of isolated utterances, and ashift of perspective is required for a breakthroughin this area.A FINAL REMARKAs can be seen in the tables in the appendix,there are differences between the different back-ground systems, for instance the use of pronounsin the PUB dialogues is as frequent as the use ofellipsis, while Wines have no pronouns.
Thereare also differences between different users,ranging from very condensed one word phrasesto small essays on two to three lines.
This indi-cates that when designing a NLI for a specificapplication it is important to run simulations,preferably with the real end users (cf.
Kelly 1983?
and Good et al1984).
We intend to proceed inthat direction and develop a method for designand customization f NLI's based on Wizard ofOz experiments.AC KNOWLEDGEMENTSWe thank all our friends at NLPLAB for cre-ating an intellectually and socially rewarding en-vironment.
Special thanks to Lars Ahrenberg forcomments on an earlier version of this paper.Beret Nilsson has implemented the ARNE-2 ex-perimental environment.
Ulf Dahl6n and AkePettersson have implemented the tagging systemDagTag used in the analysis.
We also thank ourstudents for their work with the data collection.- 296  -REFERENCESBeun, R.J. and Bunt, H.C. (1987) Investi-gating linguistic behaviour in information dia-logues with a computer.
In: IPO Annual ProgressReportBosch, Peter (1988) Representing and Ac-cessing Focused Referents, Language and Cog-nitive Processes, 3, 207-231.Chapanis, A (1981) Interactive Human Com-munication: Some lessons learned from lab-oratory experiments.
In: B. Shackel (ed.)
ManComputer Interaction: Human Factors Aspects ofComputers and People.
Rockville, MD:Sijthoffand Nordhoff.Clark, Herbert, H. (1979) Responding to in-direct speech acts,Cognitive Psychology,11, 430-477.Dahlb~ick, N. & J0nsson, A.
(1986), A Sys-tem for Studying Human Computer Dialogues inNatural Language, Research Report, Departmentof Computer and Information Science, LinkOpingUniversity, LiTH-IDA-R-86-42.Fraurud, K. (1988) Pronoun Resolution inUnrestricted Text, Nordic Journal of Linguistics,11, pp 47-68.Gibbs, Raymond W. (1981) Your Wish IsMy Command: Convention and Context in Inter-preting Indirect Requests.
Journal of VerbalLearning and Verbal Behaviour, 20, 431-444.Gibbs, Raymond, W. (1985) Situational Con-ventions and Requests.
In: Joseph P.
Forgas(ed.)
Language and Social Situations, New York:Springer Verlag.Good, M. D., Whiteside, J.
A., Wixon, D. R.& Jones, S.J.
(1984) Building a User-DerivedInterface, Comm of the ACM, Vol 27, No 10, pp1032-1043.Grice, H. Paul,(1975) Logic and Conversa-tion, In: Peter Cole and Jerry L. Morgan (eds.
)Syntax and Semantics (vol 3) Speech Acts.
NewYork: Academic Press.Grosz, B.J.
(1977) The Representation a dUse of Focus in Dialogue Understanding.
Un-published Ph.D. Thesis.
University of California,Berkely.Guindon, R., Shuldberg, K. & Connor, J.,(1987) Grammatical nd Ungrammatical struc-tures in User-Adviser Dialogues: Evidence forSufficiency of Restricted Languages in NaturalLanguage Interfaces to Advisory Systems, Proc,25th ACL, Stanford, CA.von Hahn, W., (1986) Pragmatic con-siderations in man-machine discourse.
Proc.
Col-ing 86, Bonn.Hauptman, Alexander G. & Rudnicky,Alexander I.
(1987).
Talking to Computers: AnEmpirical Investigation.
Technical report.
CMU-CS-87-186.Hobbs, Jerry (1978).
Resolving PronounReferences., Lingua, 44.Jarke, M., Stohr, E., Vassiliou, Y., White,N.
H. & Michielsen, K. (1985) A Field Evalua-tion of Natural Language for Data Retrieval, IEEETransactions on Software Engineering, Vol, SE-l l ,  No 1, January.J0nsson, A.
& Dahlb~lck, N. (1988) Talkingto a Computer Is not Like Talking to Your BestFriend, Proc.
of the First Scandinavian Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence, Troms?, Norway.Kelly, J. F. (1983) An empirical methodologyfor writing User-Friendly Natural Languagecomputer applications, Proc.
CHI "83Kittredge, R. & Lehrberger, J.
(1982) Sub-language.
Studies of Language in Restricted Do-mains.
Berlin: De Gruyter.LineU, Per (1982) The written language bias inlinguistics, Studies in communication 2 (SIC 2).Department of Communication Studies,Link0ping University.Linell, P., Gustavsson, L. & Juvonen, P.(1988) Interactional Dominance in Dyadic Com-munication.
A Presentation f the Initiative-Re-sponse Analysis.
Linguistics, 26(3).Malhotra, A.
(1975) Design Requirements fora Knowledge-Based English Language System:An Experimental Analysis.
Unpublished Ph.D.Thesis, Sloan School of Management, MIT.Malhotra, A.
(1977) Knowledge-Based En-glish Language Systems for Management: AnAnalysis of Requirements.
Proc.
IJCAI-77.Perrault, C. Raymond and Allen, James F.(1980) A Plan-Based Analysis of Indirect SpeechActs.
American Journal of Computational Lin-guistics., 6, 167-182.Reilly, R. (1987) Ill-formedness and mis-communication in person-machine dialogue.
In-formation and software technology, 29(2),69-74,Richards, M. A.
& Underwood, K., (1984)"Talking to Machines.
How are People NaturallyInclined to Speak?
", In, Contemporary Er-gonomics, (Ed) Megaw, E.D., Taylor & Francis.- 297 -Searle, J.R. (1975) Indirect speech acts.
In: P.Cole & J.L.
Morgan (Eds.)
Syntax and Se-mantics 3: Speech Acts New York: AcademicPress.Schuster, Ethel (1988) Pronominal Referenceto Events and Actions: Evidence from Naturally-Occurring Data.
University of Pennsylvania,Dept.
of Computer and Information Science,Tech Rep. MS-CIC-88-13.Tennant, H. (1979) Experience with the Eval-uation of Natural Language Question Answerers,Proc.
IJCAI-79.Tennant, H. (1981) Evaluation of NaturalLanguage Processors Ph.D. Thesis, University ofIllinois at Urbana-Champaign.Thomas, J.C. (1976) A method for studyingnatural language dialogue.
Technical Report RC5882, Behavioral Science Group, Computer Sci-ence Dept., IBM Thomas J. Watson ResearchCenter, Yorktown Heights, N.Y.Waltz, D.L.
(1978) An English languagequestion answering system for a large relationaldatabase.
Comm.
ACM., 7, 526-539.APPENDIXTABLE I: Scoring data from the dialogues.
HiFi and Travel are advisory andINITIATIVESContext DepContext IndepRESPONSETota l394167227506CLARJFICATION 43RESP/INIT 104Mistyping 40INDEXICAI.ZI'Y 177Pronouns 28Ellipsis 114Defdes~ 51DIAI.DGUES 21Lrr~RANCF_~ 1047order.
PUB is a database.
C ~ne and Wines are adviso~ systems.Tot % Inlt % HIFI  Tot % Inlt % Trave l  Tot % Inlt %37,63 130 43,19 90 32,7315,95 42,39 71 23,59 54,62 39 14,18 43,3321,68 57,61 60 19,93 46,15 51 18,55 56,6748,33 146 48,50 127 46,184,11 10 3,32 2,00 0,739,93 9 2,99 55 20,003,79 10,18 10 3,32 7,69 11 4,00 12,22In lt% Index% Inlt% Index% Inlt% Index%45,04 78 60,00 39 43,337,12 15,82 6 4,62 7,69 8 8,89 20,5129,01 64,41 54 41,54 69,23 18 20,00 46,1512,98 28,81 29 22,31 37,18 11 12,22 28,215 3301 275INITIATIVESContext DepContext IndepRESPONSEPUB Tot % Inlt %31 31,319 9,09 29,0322 22,22 70,97TABLE 1 contd.C line Tot % Inlt %83 43,2338 19,79 45,7845 23,44 54,22Wines Tot % Inlt %59 31,3810 5,32 16,9549 26,06 83,0549 49,49 93 48,44 91 48,40CLARIFICATION 4 4,04 14 7,29 13 6,91RESP/INIT I 0~525 2,60 6,02Inlt% Index%14r145,05Inlt%Mistyping14525 13,309 4,79 15,25Inlt% Index%16,13Index %INDEXICALITY 9 29,03 39 46,99 12 20,34Pronouns 3 9,68 33,33 11 13,25 28,21 0 0,00 0,00Ellipsis 3 9,68 33,33 30 36,14 76,92 9 15,25 75,00Def descr 5 16 ,13  55,56 5 6,02 12.82 I 1,69 8,33DIALOGUES 4 5 4LrI'IERANCES 99 192 188- 298  -
