SITUATION SEMANTICS AND MACHINE TRANSLATION.C.J.
RuppCCL, UMISTP.O.
Box 88Manchester M60 1QDIntroductionSituation Semantics is one of the mostrecent and controversial theories informal semantics.
Machine Translation(MT) is a highly complex applicationdomain, in which research is expensiveof both time and resources.
On thesurface, the space for interactionbetween these two fields would seemfairly limited, and in practice the theapplication of formal semantics in MThas been very limited, a notableexception being the Rosetta project(Landsbergen 1982, 1987).
The abstracttranslation problem however remainsand any application must be based onsome formalisation of the problem.The purpose of this paper isdemonstrate that the enrichedtheoretical vocabulary of SituationSemantics offers a more intuitivecharacterisation of the translationprocess, than was .possible using moretraditional semanuc theories.
Thisdemonstration will take the form of aformalisation of the most commonly usedmethod for MT in terms of SituationSemantic constructs.
In this respect thispaper follows on from a previous paper(Johnson, Rosner & Rupp 1988), inwhich MT was presented as a testingground for semantic representationlanguages.
This paper will turn the issuearound and consider what the theory ofSituation Semantics has to offer to anMT application.
The abstract descriptionof the MT system to be considered willtherefore remain the same.The paper consists of a basicintroduction to the machinery ofSituation Semantics, an examination ofthe problem of translation, a formaldescription of a transfer-based MTsystem and some examples of the kindof lexical transfer one would expect todefine in such a system.Situation Semantics: The Basics.Situation Semantics is an informationalapproach to formal semantics.
Thephilosophical basis of this theory is laidout in Barwise and Perry's Situationsand Attitudes (1983) (henceforth B&P).Most of the structure of the theory canbe seen as arising out of three basicconcepts.Attunement:... an organism must be attuned tosimilarities between situations, whatwe have called uniformities, and torelationships that obtain betweenthese uniformities... (B&P plO)Constraints:... systematic relations of a specialsort between different types ofsituation ....
These systematicconstraints are what allow onesituation to contain informationabout another.
Attunement o theseconstraints is what allows an agent topick up information from onesituation about another.
(B&P p94)Partiality:Situation types are partial.
Theydon't say everything there is to sayabout everyone or even everythingabout the individuals appearing in thesituation type.
(B&P p9)The other main features of the theorycan be seen as arising out of theinteraction of these three concepts.
Thecombination of attunement withconstraints, when applied to the problemof linguistic meaning, leads to therelation theory of meaning.
This statesthat language users are attuned to aparticular type of constraint whichrelates the situation in which anutterance is made with the situation it isabout.
Put more formally: a sentence- 308 -relates an utterance situation, u, and adescribed situation, s.u\[ lsThe notion of efficiency arises out ofthe interaction of this relation theory ofmeaning with the notion of partiality.Natural language expressions only carrya certain amount of information and soonly partially determine the range ofappropriate utterance and describedsituations.
They can therefore be said tobe efficient in that they can be used forvarious purposes.
The notion ofefficiency implies a clear distinctionbetween meaning and interpretation.
Itis only possible to arrive at a fullinterpretation by anchoring the utterancesituation and, as a consequence, thedescribed situation to actual situations.The sentence itself carries only meaning.This theory is sufficiently fine-grainedto permit further distinctions within theutterance situation, which contains twodiffering types of information: thediscourse situation and speakerconnections.
The discourse situation isthat part of the utterance situationconcerned with the external facts of thediscourse, such as the identity of thespeaker and hearer, the temporal andspatial location of the conversation andperhaps even information about themental states of the speaker and hearer.The discourse situation must beanchored before an interpretation can bedetermined.
Speaker connections areconcerned with the linguistic attunementthat must be shared by the speaker andhearer for effective communication.
Themeaning relation can therefore berestated in terms of a discoursesituation, d, speaker connections, c, anddescribed situation, s.d,c\[~\]sThe notion of speaker connectionsassumed in this paper differs slightlyfrom that used in B&P, which wasconcerned primarily with determining thereference of certain clearly referentialphrases, such as proper names anddefinite descriptions.
In this paper it isassumed that most words are in somesense referential although their referentsmay be complex partial objects; thiswould seem a natural extension of theoriginal notion.
Speaker connections aretherefore the set of culturally specificconstraints to which the users of aparticular language are attuned in orderto permit them to assign meaning tooccurrences of its expressions.Before considering some more recentdevelopments associated with SituationSemantics, it will be useful to sketchsome of the distinctions between thistheory and more traditional semantictheories, such as Montague Semantics,with particular reference to theimplications that these may have for anMT methodology, as in Landsbergen'sRosetta (Landsbergen 1982, 1987).Partiality is the most obviouscharacteristic of Situation Semantics,when compared to traditional possibleworld semantics of the Montagovianvariety.
In traditional theories truthconditions take priority over content.The interpretation of a sentence is theset of possible worlds in which it wouldbe true.
Each such world is total andtherefore fully determines the answer toany possible question that could beasked about it.
Some sentences will benecessarily true and be assigned the setof all possible worlds as aninterpretation making themindistinguishable from one another.Others, including all sentences with anecessary truth as a constituent part,form sets of logically equivalentsentences each receiving the sameinterpretation.
This results in a situationwhere attempts to generate a sentencefrom its interpretation might result in asentence with completely differentcontent or the required sentenceconjoined with a potentially infinite setof necessar)', truths.
Hence B&P'sargument m favour of partialinterpretations which contain only afixed amount of information.
This is alsoone of the reasons why MT systemsbased on Montague Semantics havebeen predominantly concerned withderivation rather than representing theinterpretation f sentences.The relation theory of meaning alsorepresents a much greater balancebetween context and content than moretraditional theories, where context isusually limited to the determination of afew indexical terms.
Although it has not- 309-yet been adequately explored, thecontextual side of the meaning relationdoes implicitly contain the possibility ofrepresenting aspects of the informationalstructure of texts, which is of essentialimportance in producing representationsfor languages such as Japanese orGerman, where informational structuredirectly affects syntax.
It is not possibleto treat such languages in any deptheven with derivational techniques, whenonly truth conditional information can berecorded.Finally traditional semantic theoriesassume a static and total interpretationfunction, which assigns denotations tolexical items.
This poses two distinctproblems when considering translation.Firstly in the case of words with morethan one sense it is not obvious how todecide which denotation to choose.What is required is a more dynamicmechanism which permits the preferredreading to vary according to the context.Secondly there is the implicitassumption that the range of possibledenotations is common to bothlanguages concerned, and if we rejectthis assumption we are faced with themetaphysical problem of constructingappropriate denotations for eachlanguage out of an unknown set ofprimitives, with no philosophicalexplanation for why this problem arises.Schematic Representations.One problem with the original versionof Situation Semantics is that it does nothave that much to say about themapping from natural language toSituation Semantic interpretation.
Thefragments given by B&P are essentiallyhand coded and give no indication as tohow Situation Semantics might beincorporated into a larger moresyntactically oriented grammar.
Morerecent work by Fenstad, Halvorsen,Langholm and van Benthem (1987)demonstrates a method of incorporatingSituation Semantics into LFGgrammars, and HPSG (Pollard & Sag1987) adopts a similar approach.
Thecombination of unification-basedgrammar formalisms with SituationSemantics is a very natural move giventhe role played by partiality in boththeories.
(See for example Barwise'scomment (Barwise & Perry 1985, p143).Unification-based approaches toSituation Semantics generally requirethe inclusion of a level of abstractrepresentation which only partiallydetermines the range of possibleinterpretations.
This can be seen as themeaning carried by the sentence under arange of interpretations, but it will beless ambiguous that the originalsentence as different syntactic analyseswill give rise to different representations.It is possible to state the meaningrelation imposed by such arepresentation or situation schema inthe same terms as were used for thesentence.d,c\[sit.~\]sThe relation between a sentence,and its representation sit.qb will be givenby a grammar G, which maps strings of alanguage L to members of a class ofrepresentations R, (which will be in theform of Directed Acyclic Graphs).
Inorder to reflect the semantic relationbetween these two objects it will benecessary to define two auxiliary"interpretation functions" whichdetermine the set of possibleinterpretations so thatInL(?)
= { <d,c,s> I d,c\[?\]s }InR(sit.q) = { <d,c,s> I d,c\[sit.dd\]s }The grammar then defines the relationG = { <0,sit.C> I?
e L,sit.?
~ R,InR(sit.?)
c_ InL(?)
}It could be argued that the introductionof an extra level of representation couldpose some problems for the foundationsof the theory in that it inevitably attractscomparisons with DiscourseRepresentation Theory (DRT) andrepresentational theories of semanticswhich assign psychological significanceto their intermediate levels ofrepresentation.
The key tounderstanding the nature of situationschemata is to see them as containingjust the information which may becarried by the use of the construct heyrepresent.
Their significance lies- 310-therefore not in the minds of thelanguage users but in the communicativeinteraction between them.
This makesthis level of representation the perfectmedium for the study of translationalequivalences.Translation Equivalence withina Situational Framework.This section is concerned with the twoessential problems of any approach toMT: the nature and extent of theinformation that must be preserved, andthe nature of the alteration which mustbe effected.
Following on from theprevious section it would seem that apartial representation which carried thecontent of the text ought to supplysufficient information to be preserved.This would represent the meaning of thetext while leaving ambiguities ofinterpretation underspecified.
This wouldeffectively freeze the describedsituation, leaving the context side of themeaning relation as the only domain fortranslation operations.A text places fewer constraints on i t scontext than a conversation, because theauthor and reader know a lot less abouteach other than do the correspondingspeaker and hearer.
It follows from thisthat much of what a text does have tosay about its context will remainconstant under translation.
If an authorassumes his reader to have specialisedknowledge of a particular subject domainthen this requirement should not beaffected by translation.
This type ofinformation is external to the text andtherefore would not appear in therepresentation of the content and sowould not be affected by translation.
Theonly major alteration required in thecontext of the text is that the reader andauthor are considered to be users of thetarget language rather than the sourcelanguage.
This will not greatly affect theexternal facts of the interaction so thediscourse situation can remain constant.It will however drastically affect thelinguistic attunements that the authorand reader must share in order tocommunicate.
These are culturallyconditioned and affect not only the waythat words may be used to refer to theuniformities that make up the content ofthe text, but also the range ofuniformities that it is possible to refer to.This association of linguistic forms withuniformities in the real world is providedby speaker connections and these willbe the domain over which translationmust operate.
Speaker connections dohowever cover certain text internalforms of reference, such as anaphoricbinding; these should also remainpredominantly impervious to translation.It is mainly those connections involvedin reference into the described situationthat must be altered.
While this domainonly represents a very small part of thesituational formalisation of the meaningrelation it still represents a vast area ofpotential variation.Transfer-based MT.The problem space for MT istraditionally viewed as being triangularin shape (Vauquois 1979).
In this modelthe problem of translating between textsis reduced to that of a transfer mappingbetween abstract representation ofthose texts.
It is usually assumed thatthere is a direct relationship betweenthe complexity of the transfer operationsand the level of abstraction of therepresentations; some of the issuesinvolved in this trade-off are discussedin Krauwer & des Tombe (1984).
Thelimit case is where the representationsare sufficiently abstract that transferbecomes vacuous: this is exemplified bythe interlingual approach adopted inRosetta (Landsbergen 1982).
Increasedabstraction can however lead to the lossof relevant information and impliesrecourse to a culturally independent setof primitives.
The adoption of asituational framework for an MT systemplaces interesting constraints on themethod to be employed, because boththe abstract representational level andthe nature of the transfer mapping aredetermined by the theoreticalframework.
Interestingly, this turns outto be the kind of transfer-based methodmost commonly advocated withinsyntactically oriented approaches toMT.Within the current model, withsituation schemata functioning as therepresentational level in a transfer-based MT system, the abstraction fromtext to representation would be that~,.-v - 311  -defined by the grammar relation, G,above, except that two versions of thisrelation are now required.
The parsingrelation would be given by a sourcelanguage grammar, GsougcE.Gsot~c~ = { <~,sit.~> I~~ Ls,sit.~ E Rs,InRs(sit.~) c_ InLs(~) }Generation would, similarly, use atarget language grammar, GTARG~TGTARGET = { <~',sit.
?~'> I ~' ~ Lt,sit.~' ~ Rt,InRt(sit.
?~') ~ InLt(?~') }The transfer relation can then bedefined as a translation relation acrossrepresentations, TR, expressed in termsof: the two representations, it.~ andsit.
?~', a constant described situation, s,and for the purposes of this model aconstant discourse situation, d. Theactual mapping, K, will be defined acrossthe two sets of speaker connections, cand c'.TR = { <sit.~,sit.~'> I d,c\[sit.~\]sd,c'\[sit.?
'\]sK(c,c') }The translation relation acrosslanguages, TL, can then be expressed interms of the definitions given above.TL = { <~,~'> I <~,sit.~> ~ GsotrRC E<?~',sit.
?~'>  GTARC~T<sit.@,sit.
?> ~ TR }In the same way that MT by transferreduces the translation problem to atranslation across representations, sothis particular formalisation of themethod condenses all the translationoperations onto a single K-mappingacross speaker connections.
Thisprocess of restricting the domain overwhich translation relations hold alsoreduces their scope.
The discussion oftranslation equivalence was framed interms of texts, the formalisation of thetranslation method is expressed interms of sentence, but speakerconnections are a set of constraints onthe use of individual words.
It mightappear that the restrictions of thetransfer mapping to a lexical levelsmacks of regression towards primitiveword-for-word translation, but with theassistance of recent developmentswithin unification-based grammarformalisms nothing could be further fromthe truth.
There are two features haredby UCG (Zeevat et al 1987), HPSG(Pollard & Sag 1987) and recentversions of LFG (Fenstad et al 1987,Halvorsen 1987) which make theimplementation of such lexical transferpossible.
The fin'st is the combination ofsyntactic, semantic and evenphonological information expressed inthe same form at all levels of thegrammar.
This allows for the incrementalevaluation of constraints across thesevarious domains.
The second is theconcentration of information in thelexicon, including information concerningthe combinatory behaviour of individuallexical items.
These two principles,known as constraint propagation andlexicalism, should make it possible todefine lexical transfer elations in termsof the representations associated withindividual words of the language,without compromising the ability tospecify a wider context.Lexical Transfer based onSpeaker Connections.Having outlined an approach totranslation based on transfer relationsover the representations associatedwith individual lexical items, it isnecessary to consider how such anapproach might be implemented.
Thisinvolves two basic issues: the formalnature of such relations and theinformation that they must express.
Thisdiscussion will be based on an MTprototype under development at ISSCOGeneva (Johnson et al 1988) whichemploys a grammar development tool forunification grammars known as UD, orUnification Device (Johnson & Rosner1989).
Within this environment arepresentational format has beendeveloped based on the situationschemata of (Fenstad et al 1987).
Thiswill be the framework in which the issueof lexical transfer over graph-structuredrepresentations will be considered.One obvious point of reference in- 312  -considering relations between attribute-value graphs is the kind of lexical rulefound in PATR type environments(Shieber 1984, Karttunen 1986).
Theseare essentially relations between graphsand are used to treat such phenomenaas passivisation.
A similar mechanismcould be used to implement lexicaltransfer elations.
There would howeverbe one major change in the formulation ofsuch rules, namely the fact that therepresentations to be related belong todifferent grammars and so areassociated with different syntacticstructures.
This would affect the waythat the root of the graph wasassociated with the lexical item and theway that information about thesurrounding context was passed on.
In alexical rule information to be preservedcan simply be equated, but here atranslational equivalence is required.There are a number of ways in whichthis correspondence between elementsof different domains might be treated.These include the kind of structuralcorrespondence us d for relating syntaxand semantics in recent work on LFG(Halvorsen 1987, Kaplan & Halvorsen1988, Kaplan, Netter, Wedekind &Zaenen 1989) and also bilingual lexicalentries as in Beaven & Whitelock(1988).
The UD formalisation given herewill assume a slightly more flexibleversion of the latter approach, in that notonly is the requirement o associateentries of different lexicons recognised,but also the need to be free of theimmediate syntactic structure.Before commenting on a UDimplementation f such lexical relationsit is necessary to point out that the UDenvironment does not support lexicalrules of the form mentioned above.
Thereis instead a more generalised notion ofrelational abstraction over therepresentational domain.
This permitsthe relational characterisation f most ofthe phenomena usually treated by lexicalrules, but not the interpretation underwhich such rules carry out non-monotonic operations on existingstructures.
Relational abstractions alsopermit lexical relations to be brokendown into more specific generalisationsallowing for a more modular treatment ofsuch phenomena.Some examples may demonstrate howthis technique might be applied to someof the less trivial equivalences betweenrepresentations.
The often quotedequivalence between the Dutch sentenceIk zwem graag.I swim willingly.with the representationand the EnglishI like to swim.involves a difference in the syntacticcategory used to express essentially thesame uniformity.
This would be reflectedin the structure of the semanticrepresentations assigned to thesesentences.Ind  ~ype sit-'\]Cond el I-  FTY e re-q"_coo./Rel c(graag)(Dc(zwemmen)UPol 1Fig.
1 - A Situation Schema for theDutch sentence: Ikzwem graag.The Dutch representation (Fig.l) showsgraag as a relation over pairs ofrelational objects where the English(Fig.2) represents like as a relationbetween an entity and a situation.- 313  -s,t--1Cond Rel c(like)Arg 1 c(/)_ t on' IPol 1- -  Rel c(swim)Arg 1"~ c(/)--'\]Pol 1Fig.2 - A Situation Schema for theEnglish sentence: I like to swim.mThe relation between the semanticrepresentations of the two words can beexpressed by the abstraction LTR(Lexical Transfer) as follows:LTR(Dutch,English)<Dutch ind type> =<English ind type> = sit<Dutch cond> --- \[DC\]<English cond> - \[EC\]<EC rel> = like(_.
)!TR(<DC arg I>,<EC arg 1>)<EC arg 2 ind type> = sit<EC arg 2 cond> = \[ESC\]<DC rel ind type> = rel<DC rel cond> -- \[DRC\]<DRC rel> = graagfEnglish)<DRC arg 1> = <DC rel ind val>!TR(<DRC arg 2>,<ESC rel>)<ESC arg 1> = <EC arg 1>In practice this definition would notrequire quite so much code as it wouldbe more efficient o draw on abstractionsgeneralising across large numbers oftranslation relations.
The only otherabstraction referred to here, TR, is thenecessary reference to translationalrather than equational equivalencewhere reference is made to the widercontext of the two representations.
Thisdefinition is framed solely in terms of thesemantic representations and the directconnection between the tworepresentations is made by embeddingone under the lexical leaf of the other.This method of representing thecorrespondence between actual lexicalentries is highly experimental and hasnot yet been applied to any of the largergrammars developed within the UDformalism.
It does however avoid one ofthe more basic problems with the UDimplementation of situation schemata:the fact that while it is relatively easy toassert the existence of a piece ofrepresentation, it is not possible toensure that this representation beassociated with an actual piece ofsyntactic structure.
It is relatively easyto emulate projection mechanisms uchas the a and @ mappings of Halvorsen& Kaplan (1988) by the use of attributeswithin a larger representation, but it isnot currently possible to reproduce thecorresponding inverse mappings.The relation defined above could bedescribed using conventional LFGnotations and projections, including a 'tmapping for translation betweensemantic representations.
This wouldhowever equire a slight alteration in therepresentation language to permit onlyone condition on each object.
Theresulting definition would consist of thefollowing set of equations, in which * isthe c-structure node associated with theword graag, a a projection from c-structure to semantic representation andx the transfer projection from sourcerepresentation to target representation.fin Kaplan et al (1989) translationrelations are predominantly defined interms of a projection x across f-structures and the semantic projection isreferred to as 'g.
)- 314 -(o* ind type) =(1;o * ind type)(o* ind type) = sit(o* cond tel ind type) = rel(o* cond tel cond rel) = graag('?o* cond rel) = likex(o* arg 1) = (zo* arg 1)'?
(o* cond rel cond arg 2) =(xo * cond arg 2 cond rel)(xo* cond arg 2 ind type) = sit(o* cond rel ind type) = rel(o* cond rel cond arg 1) =(o* cond rel ind val)(xo* cond arg 2 cond arg 1) =(xo* cond arg 1)This also expresses the translationalequivalence of the two words purely interms of their semantic representations,but this formalism does in principlepermit the definition of inverseprojections so that o ' l xo*  would bethe c-structure node associated with theword like.
In order to take advantage ofthis device it is however necessary tosacrifice the increased expressive powerof a representation language defined inUD and the highly modular treatmentthat the use of relational abstractionsprovides.
While both of theseformalisms permit the specification ofthe required lexical transfer relationswithout the need to route all informationthrough the source language syntax, itwould seem more appropriate to explorethe range of appropriate transferrelations within the UD formalism.A more complex example of this kind oflexical transfer elation might be takenfrom comparing the use of verbs ofmotion in English and French.
In Frenchthe verb often describes uniformitiesassociated with motion and its directionand any specification of manner mighthave to rely on an adverbial modifier asinI1 descend la rue en courant.He go-down the road runninglyThe representation associated withthis sentence is given in Fig.3.I ,,eo.d Re, Indp,,e re \]l/  "clJ/L~ ond ~ JmRelArgPolArge(courir)E e(descendre~_1_ ue) \] Rei c(r1mm1 c(i/)2 "-~drType e ~-_.Cond I I l_.
/Pol 1Fig.3 - A Situation Schema for theFrench sentence:I1 descend la rue en courant.In English however verbs are usuallymore concerned with the manner of themotion and the direction is left to aprepositional phrase, as in thecorrespondingHe runs down the road.which receives the representation iFig.4.- 315  -~nd ~ype sit-\]Cond Rel c(run)Arg 1 c(he)2 ~nd mType !o~Condeol I //2mPol 1--~d mType e~ 1ba'C J._Cond E Rel--Of "Ar r7 (2fjPol 1Fig.4 - A Situation Schema for theEnglish sentence:He ran down the road.The following abstraction defines arelation between the English verb runand the French verb courir.LTR(English,French)<English ind type> =<French ind type> = sit<English cond> = \[EC\]<French cond> = \[FC\]<EC rel> = run(French)<FC rel> = courir(_)!Trans(<EC arg I>,<FC arg I>)LTR(English,French)<English ind type> =<French ind type> = sit<English cond> = \[EC\]<French cond> = \[FC\]<EC rel> = run(French)<FC rel cond> = \[FCR\]<FCR rel> = courir(_)lTrans(<EC arg I>,<FC arg 1>)!Trans(<EC arg 2>,T)<EC arg 2 ind type> = locThere two are clauses, denoting twopossible transfer relations.
The firsttreats the simple case where there is nodirectional prepositional phrase in theEnglish and the correspondence is verysimple as both verbs refer to a relationover one entity argument.
The secondclause however treats the case wherethe second argument o the English verbis locational, as in the example above,which causes the corresponding Frenchexpression to be construed as a relationover relational objects, and therefore anadverbial modifier.
The formation of sucha modifier must be left to the Frenchsyntax and the main verb must besupplied by the translation of theprepositional phrase.
This definitionmakes a lot of assumptions about thekind of transfer relations that will bedefined on other words.
It also impliesthat a word like the French en thatmakes no contribution to the semanticrepresentation, as it only converts averb form into an adverbial phrase,should be capable of performing majorchanges to the translational behaviour ofthe verb it applies to.In the previous example thedistribution of information across theuniformities that the two languageswere able to refer to was clearlydifferent and this was treated by acomplex structural relation over therepresentations assigned to the wordsinvolved.
With a relatively simple caselike this it might seem more appropriateto appeal to some deeper level ofsemantic primitives to resolve suchdifferences, but the task of lexicaldecomposition over multilingualvocabularies is obviously doomed by thefact that for most domains there is noobvious constraint on where a culturewill decide to draw a distinction.
Thisholds for most domains covered by open- 316  -class words that provide most of thecontent of a text.
There are however afew domains that are so structured thatthey are amenable to decomposition.When languages refer to uniformities inthese domains it is usually withconstructs that are systematicallyincorporated into their morphology orwith words from distinctly closedclasses.
These domains correspond toareas that have often caused majorproblems for MT, such as tense, aspect,modality and determination.
In some ofthese domains it has already becomeaccepted to appeal to an abstractrepresentation that is essentiallylanguage independent, as in the work ofvan Eynde on tense and aspect (e.g.1988).
It is interesting that theprimitives required for suchrepresentations correspond to the kindof structural relations required in thedifferent object domains of SituationSemantics: locations, relations,situations and entities.
It is not possibleto present any interesting examples ofthe treatment of such phenomena hereas there is still much work to be done ondetermining appropriate sets of primitivestructural relations, though Cooper(1985,1986) presents a basis for thetreatment of tense and aspect withinSituation Semantics.Conclusion.This paper has presented a formaldescription of an approach to MT that isbased on principles drawn from SituationSemantics, but which utilises the samebasic architecture as more syntacticallymotivated systems.
It has alsopresented some examples of how suchan approach might be implementedwithin current unification grammarformalisms.
While this approach as yetto be implemented on any major scale,related work at ISSCO, Geneva hasproduced grammars for moderately largefragments of German and French whichdeliver the kind of representationrequired by such a system.Acknowledgements.This research was supported by anSERC studentship (No.
8632138X).I would also like to express mygratitude to Rod Johnson for providingboth intellectual and technical supportfor this research.References.Barwise, J. and J. Perry 1983.Situations and Attitudes.
Cambridge,Mass.
: MIT Press.Barwise, J and J. Perry 1985.
ShiftingSituations and Shaken Attitudes.Linguistics and Philosophy Vol 8 No 1,105-161.
Dordrecht: Reidel.Beaven, J.L.
and P. Whitelock 1988.Machine Translation Using IsomorphicUCGs.
Procceedings of COLING 88.
Vol1 32-35, Budapest.Cooper, R. 1985.
Aspectual Classes inSituation Semantics.
Report No.
CSLI-85-14 Stanford: CSLI.Cooper, R. 1986.
Tense and DiscourseLocation in Situation Semantics.Linguistics and Philosophy.
Vol.
9 No 1,17-36.
Dordrecht: Reidel.Fenstad, J.E., P-K. Halvorsen, T.Langholrn and J. van Benthem 1987.Situations Language and Logic.Dordrecht: Reidel.Halvorsen, P-K. 1987.
SituationSemantics and Semantic Interpretationin Constraint-based Grammars.
ReportNo.
CSLI-87-101 Stanford: CSLIHalvorsen, P-K and R.M.
Kaplan 1988.Projection and Semantic Description inLexical-Functional Grammar.Proceedings of the InternationalConference on Fifth GenerationComputer Systems, FGCS-88.
Tokyo.Johnson, R, M. Rosner and C.J.
Rupp1988.
Situation Schemata nd LinguisticRepresentation.
Presented at theLugano Workshop on ComputationalLinguistics and Formal Semantics,September 1988.- 317  -Johnson, R, and M. Rosner 1989.
ARich Environment for Experimentationwith Unification Grammars.
Proceedingsof the European ACL 1989.
ManchesterKaplan, R.M., K. Netter, J. Wedekindand A. Zaenen 1989.
Translation byStructural Correspondence.
Proceedingsof the European ACL 1989.
ManchesterKarttunen, L. 1986.
D-PATR: ADevelopment Environment forUnification-B ased Grammars.Proceedings of Coling 86.74-80.
Bonn.Krauwer, S. and L. des Tombe 1984.Transfer in a Multilingual MT System.Proceedings of Coling 84 464-467.Stanford.Landsbergen, J.Translation BasedMontague Grammars.Coling 82.1982.
Machineon LogicallyProceedings ofLandsbergen, J.
1987.
IsomorphicGrammars and their Use in the RosettaTranslation System.
In King, M. (Ed)Machine Translation Today: the State ofthe Art.
Proceedings of the Third LuganoTutorial, Lugano, Switzerland, 2-7 April1984.
Edinburgh University Press.Pollard, C. and I.A.
Sag 1987.Information-based Syntax andSemantics: Volume 1 Fundamentals.CSLI Lecture Notes Series No.
13Stanford: CSLI.Shieber, S.M.
1984.
The Design of aComputer Language for LinguisticInformation.
Proceedings of Coling 84 pp362-366.
Stanford.van Eynde, F. 1988.
The Analysis ofTense and Aspect in Eurotra.Procceedings of Coling 88 Vol 2 pp 699-704.
Budapest.Vauquois, B.
1979.
Aspects ofMechanical Translation in 1979.Conference for Japan IBM ScientificProgram (GETA Report).Zeevat, H., E. Klein and J. Calder 1987.Unification Categorial Grammar.
InHaddock N, E. Klein and G. Morrill(F_As) Working Papers in CognitiveScience, Vol.
1: Categorial Grammar,Unification Grammar and Parsing.University of Edinburgh: Centre forCognitive Science.- 318  -
