ENHANCING EXPLANATION COHERENCE WITH RHETORICAL STRATEGIESMARK T. MAYBURYRome Air Development CenterIntelligent Interface GroupGriffiss AFB, Rome NY 13441-5700maybury@radc-tops20.arpaandCambridge University Computer LaboratoryCambridge, England CB2 3QGABSTRACTThis paper discusses the application of apreviously reported theory of explanationrhetoric (Maybury, 1988b) to the task ofexplaining constraint violations in a hybridrule/frame based system for resourceallocation (Dawson et al 1987).
Thisresearch illustrates how discourse strategiesof explanation, textual connectives, andadditional justification knowledge can beapplied to enhance the cohesiveness,structure, and clarity of knowledge basedsystem explanations.INTRODUCTIONRecent work in text generation i cludesemphasis on producing textual presentationsof the explanations of reasoning inknowledge-based systems.
Initial work(Swartout, 1981) on the direct ranslation ofunderlying system knowledge l d to insightsthat more perspicuous justifications wouldresult from keeping track of the principles ordeep causal models which supported thatknowledge (Swartout and Smoliar, 1988).And experiments with discourse strategiesdemonstrated the efficacy of the rhetoricalorganization of knowledge to producedescriptions, comparisons (McKeown, 1985)and clarification (McCoy, 1985).
Researchershave recently observed (Paris et al 1988) thatthe line of explanation should notisomorphically mirror the underlying line ofreasoning as this often resulted in poorlyconnected text (Appelt, 1982).
Others haveattempted toclassify patterns of explanations(Stevens and Steinberg, 1981; Schank,1986).
The approach presented here is toexploit generic explanation strategies andfocus models (Sidner, 1983; Grosz andSidner, 1988) to organize the back-endjustification via an explanation rhetoric -- thatis, a rhetorical model of strategies thathumans employ to persuade, support, orclarify their position.
The result is a moreconnected, flowing and thus easier to followtextual presentation f the explanation.KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATIONand EXPLANATIONPrevious research in natural anguagegeneration from knowledge based systemshas primarily focused on independentknowledge representation schemes (e.g rule,frame or conceptual dependency formalisms).In contrast, the application chosen to test theconcepts of rhetorical explanations is an FRL(Roberts and Goldstein, 1977) based missionplanning system for the Air Force whichutilizes both rules and frames duringdecision-making.
Hence, the explanationsconcern rule-based constraint violationswhich result from inference about entities inthe knowledge base, their attributes, andrelationships.
For example, if the user plansan offensive counter air mission with anincompatible aircraft and target, the systemwill automatically signal a constraint violationvia highlighting of objects on the screen.
Ifthe user mouses for explanation, the systemwill state the conflicting rule, then list thesupporting knowledge, as shown in figure 1.- 168  -The choice for AIRCRAFT is in question because:BY TARGET-A IRCRAFr -1 :1  THERE IS A SEVERE CONFLICT BETWEENTARGET AND AIRCRAFT FOR OCA100221.
THE TARGET OF OCA1002 IS BE3070332.
BE30703 RADIATES3.
THE AIRCRAFT OF OCA1002 IS F-111E4.
F- 111E IS NOT A F-4GFigure 1.
Current Explanation of Rule ViolationThe weak textuality of the presentationmanifests itself through ungrammaticalsentences and the implicit suggestion ofrelationships among entities, placing theburden of organization upon the reader.Moreover, it lacks essential content thatspecifies why an F-111E is not acceptable.That "F- 111E IS NOT A F-4G" makes littlecontribution to the justification, and at bestimplicitly suggests an alternative (an F-4G).generated with templates followed by a directtranslation of the explanation audit trail (atrace of the inferences of the constraintpropagation algorithm as shown in figure 2).The explanation trace is of the form:(rule-constraint (justification-knowledge-type((justification-content) (support-code))*)*)*where * means 1 to N repetitions.
In theexample, the rule constraint is TARGET-((TARGET-AIRCRAFT- 1(DATA (TARGET OCA1002 BE30703))(INHERITANCE (IS-A BE30703 ELECTRONICS))(DATA (AIRCRAFF OCA 1002 F- 111 E)((NOTEQ F-111E (QUOTE F-4G))))))Figure 2.
Audit Trail ofOne reason the text lacks coherence isbecause it fails to specify preciserelationships among introduced entities.This can be achieved not only by sequentialorder, but through the use of models ofrhetoric, textual connectives, and discoursedevices such as anaphora nd pronominalmodifiers.
For instance, rather than achievingorganization from some model of naturallyoccurring discourse, the presentation isisomorphic to the underlying inference chain.In figure 1, the first two sentences are1This is the name of the rule.2Reads "Offensive Counter Air Mission 1002".3Reads "Battle Element number 30703".Constraint FailureAIRCRAFF- 1, and the two justification typesare DATA and INHERITANCE, representingknowledge and relationships among entitiesin the FRL knowledge base.
Notice that the(AIRCRAFT OCA1002 F-111E) tuple isfollowed by a lisp code test for inequality ofF-111E and F-4G aircraft.
It is unclear(indeed unspecified) in this formalism that thereason for this test and the preference for anF-4G is its ability to handle search radar.Thus, discrimination of the two aircraft onthe basis of structure, function, capability orsome other characteristic would furtherclarify the explanation.
Therefor, there is aneed not only for linguistic processing toenhance the coherence of the presentation ifigure 1, but also additional knowledge toenhance the perspicuity of the explanation.- 169  -EXPLANATION RHETORICThe implemented system, EXPLAN,exploits models of rhetorical strategies, focusmodels, as well as entity-distinguishingknowledge to improve the organization,connectivity and surface choices (e.g.connectives and anaphor) of the text.
Thesystem first instantiates a pool of relevantexplanation propositions from both theexplanation audit trail as well as from theknowledge base as both are sources ofvaluable clarifying information.
The textplanner uses a predicate selection algorithm(guided by a global and local focus model,knowledge of rhetorical ordering,relationships among entities in the knowledgebase, and the explanation audit trail) to selectand order propositions which are thenrealized via a case semantics, a relationalgrammar, and finally morphologicalsynthesis algorithms (Maybury, 1988a).In our example, the first task is todetermine the salience of entities to theexplanation.
The generator includes thecurrent frame (that is, the current missionbeing planned, OCA1002) in the global focusof attention.
However, global focus alsomust include those slots which may haverelevance to constraint violations.
Figure 3shows the OCA1002 mission frame whichhas many slots, only a few of which arecentral to the explanation, namely theAIRCRAFT and TARGET slots.
A selectionalgorithm filters out semantically irrelevantslots (e.g.
AIO, DISPLAY) and retains lotstrapped by the constraint violation.
Salientobjects in the knowledge base are marked,including the parent and children of theobject(s) in question (which are explicitly infocus) and the siblings or cousins of theglobal focus (which are implicitly in focus).After selecting the global focus(OCA1002, AIRCRAFT, and TARGET),and marking salient objects in the knowledgebase, the planner selects three propositionsfrom the instantiated pool guided by the localfocus model and the model of explanationdiscourse.
The proposition pool includespreviously reported (McKeown, 1985)rhetorical types such as attributive,constituent, and illustration, but also includesa wide range of justificatory rhetoricalpredicate types such as characteristic,componential, classificatory, physical-causal,generalization, associative, and functional, asreported in (Maybury, 1988b).These predicates are grouped into sub-schema as to whether they identify theproblem, support the identification ordiagnosis, or recommend actions.
Thesesub-strategies, which provide globalrhetorical coherence, can expand to a range ofpredicate types such as the three chosen inthe example plan.
As figure 4 illustrates,the explanation strategy isa representation f(OCAI002(AIO (VALUE(AUX (VALUE(DISPLAY (VALUE(AIRCRAFT (POSSIBLE(VALUE(STATUS(HISTORY (VALUE(AIRBASE (POSSIBLE(ORDNANCE (POSSIBLE(TARGET (VALUE(STATUS(ACNUMBER (POSSIBLE(VALUE(STATUSF igure  3 .
(OCA)))(OCA1002-AUX)))(#<MISSION-WINDOW I 1142344 dccxposcd>)))((F-4C F-4D F-4E F-4G F-111E F-lllF)))(F-111E))(USER)))(<#EVENT INSERT TARGET BE30703 USER>)))((ALCONBURY))))((A1 A2 ... A14))))(BE30703))(USER)))((1 2 ... 25)))(3))(USER))))Mission Frame in FRL- 170  -EXPLAINPROBLEMIDENTIFICATION SUPPORT RECOMMENDi ,/  \conficting slotshighlighted characteristic classificatory suggestiveon screenFigure 4.
Dominance (arrows) and Ordering (sequential equilevel nodes) relationshipsboth dominance and ordering among thepredicates as well as a means for powerfulaggregation of predicates into substrategies.distinguishes between the two fighter entitiesindicating the deeper reason why the choice isrecommended.
This knowledge originates(CHARACTERISTIC((OCA1001))((AIRCRAFT F-111E) (TARGET NIL NIL BE30703)))(CLASSIFICATORY((LUDWIGSLUSTS -ALPHA))((ELECTRONICS NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL ((FUNCTION (EW-GCI))))))(SUGGESTIVE((AIRCRAFT SELECTED))((F-4G NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL ((FUNCTION (RADAR-DESTRUCTION))))(F-111E NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL ((FUNCTION (RADAR-SUPPRESSION))))))Figure 5.
Selected Rhetorical Propositions.The corresponding instantiated rhetoricalpropositions are shown in figure 5.
Theproblem to be identified in our illustration isthat there is a conflict between the aircraft andthe target chosen in the mission plan.
As thisis indicated by highlighting of these slots onthe screen, identification ofthe conflict is notincluded in the text, although there is noreason why this could not be explicitly statedby means of a definition predicate.
With theproblem identified, the planner justifies thisidentification by characterizing the missionunder consideration a d classifying the objectat the root of the constraint violation.Finally, the planner recommends a viablealternative using a suggestive proposition.Notice that the discriminatory knowledgein the suggestive predicate in figure 5from the knowledge base 1rather than theexplanation trace.
Thus the knowledgeprovided in the audit trail along with generalknowledge from the domain knowledge baseare abstracted into rhetorical predicates whichserve as sentential building blocks of text.Attachment points for linguistic units (parts-of-speech, phrases, or complete utterances)are indicated by position in the rhetoricalformalism.
Prepositional phrase selection isguided by keywords uch as function (for),location (in, on, under), or instrument (with,using).1These distinguishing descriptive attributes, implicitin the expert system, were explicidy added todiscriminate entities on the basis of structure,function, location, etc.- 171  -The rhetorical formalism is interpretedwith a case-frame semantics which istranslated to syntactic form via a relationalgrammar.
Discourse models of focus andcontext as well as rhetorical force guidesyntax choices.
Morphological synthesizers(using category and feature values from thesyntax generator) together with orthographicroutines govern f'mal surface form (see figure6).
As illustrated in the final sentence of theparagraph, parenthetical functionaljustifications enhance the explanation byproviding additional information from theknowledge base which was relevant but notincluded in the original explanation.levels of representation in EXPLAN can beviewed from this perspective.Yet another area for further researchconcerns the replanning of explanations inreaction to user feedback (Moore andSwartout, 1988).
Because of the explicitrepresentation f rhetorical structure, modelsof discourse context (histories of foci,rhetoric, and content), and alternativeexplanation strategies, EXPLAN offers a richbasis for investigating recovery strategiesfrom a variety of explanation error states.For example, input which indicates usermisconception should guide the explanationWhy did the mission plan fail?Offensive Counter Air Mission 1002 has f- 11 le aircraft and a target of Ludwigslusts-Alpha.Ludwigslusts-Alpha is electronic hardware for early warning and ground counter interception.Therefore, the aircraft should be an f-4g (for radar destruction) rather than an f-11 le (for radarsuppression).Figure 6.
Rhetorically organized explanation of rule conflict.D ISCUSSIONThe produced text is more effectivebecause of explicit rhetorical organization, theuse of textual connectives (e.g.
"therefore"),and the enrichment of the explanation withadditional justificatory knowledge.
Aninteresting venue for further investigation, theorder and dominance relationships of figure 4could aid in responding to usermisconceptions or follow-up questions.These relationships could be used to tailorrhetorical force to the type of user addressed,hence requiring explicit user models.
Anobvious weakness i the lack of goal-directedselection of rhetorical devices to achievesome targeted effect.
In essence, pragmaticfunction is implicit in the rhetorical strategiessuch that effects on the hearer are achieved,although not explicitly planned for.
Aparticularly enticing idea is that put forwardby (Hovy, 1988) suggesting the need forboth prescriptive, top-down planning ofrhetorical goals, coupled with selectionalrestrictions at the surface level.
Indeed, theplanned rhetorical and constrained realizationsystem to be more concrete, such asproviding specific examples.
Alternatively,feedback which indicates that the userexpertly follows the line of reasoning maysuggest that the explanation strategy shouldminimize details or provide more abstractreasoning.
As a consequence, a flexibleexplanation generator must be able to selectfrom multiple views of the underlyingknowledge, such as structural versusfunctional representations (Suthers, 1988).
Insummary, the ability to provide justificationdynamically using a range of explanationstrategies will greatly enhance the perspicuityand utility of complex knowledge basedsystems.CONCLUSIONThe EXPLAN system demonstrates theeffectiveness of rhetorical organization,textual connectives, and justificatoryenhancement of explanation traces to achievemore cohesive text.
A more effective- 172-explanation/generation system will useknowledge about he user to select rhetoricalstructure, content, and surface choices andwill be flexible enough to handle avariety offollow-up questions.
These are the foci ofcurrent research.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSI would like to thank Professor KarenSparck Jones for many enlighteningdiscussions on issues concerning explanationand natural language generation.REFERENCESAppelt, Douglas.
1985 Planning EnglishSentences.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, England.Dawson, Bruce; Brown, Richard; Kalish,Candice and Goldkind, Stuart.
1987Knowledge-based Replanning System.RADC Final Technical Report 87-60.Grosz, Barbara and Sidner, Candice.
1988Plans for Discourse.
Harvard UniversityTR-11-87.
Also in Cohen, Paul;Morgan., J. and Pollack, Martha (eds.
).1988 Intentions in Communication, MITPress.Hovy, Eduard.
1988 Planning CoherentMultisentential Text.
Proceedings of the26th Annual Meeting of the Associationof Computational Linguistics, Buffalo,NY.Maybury, Mark.
1988a GENNY: AKnowledge Based Text GenerationSystem.
Proceedings of the RIAOConference on User-Oriented Content-Based Text and Image Handling, MIT,Cambridge, MA: 849-862.Maybury, Mark.
1988b ExplanationRhetoric: the Rhetorical Progression ofJustifications.
Proceedings of theAAAI-88 Workshop on Explanation,Minneapolis-St Paul, MN: 16-20.McCoy, Kathy.
1985 Correcting Object-Related Misconceptions.
Ph D Thesis,University of Pennsylvania TR 85-57.McKeown, Kathy.
1985 Text Generation.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,England.Moore, Johanna nd William Swartout.
1988A Reactive Approach to Explanation.Proceedings of the Fouth InternationalWorkshop on Natural LanguageGeneration.Paris, Cecile Michael Wick, and WilliamThompson.
1988 The Line of ReasoningVersus the Line of Explanation.Proceedings of the AAAI-88 Workshopon Explanation, Minneapolis-St Paul,MN: 4-7.Roberts, R. Bruce and Ira Goldstein.
1977The FRL Manual.
MIT AI Lab Memo409.Schank, Roger.
1986 Explanation Patterns:Understanding Mechanically andCreatively.
Lawrence Erlbaum, Hillsdale,New Jersey.Sidner, Candice.
1983 Focusing in theComprehension f Definite Anaphora.
InBrady and Berwick (eds.
),Computational Models of Discourse.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA: 267-330.Stevens, Albert and Cindy Steinberg.
1981 ATypology of Explanation and itsApplication to Intelligent Computer AidedInstruction.
BBN Technical Report#4626.Suthers, Dan.
1988 Providing MultipleViews for Explanation.
Proceedings ofthe AAAI-88 Workshop on Explanation,Minneapolis-St Paul, MN: 12-15.Swartout, William.
1981 ProducingExplanations and Justifications of ExpertConsulting Programs.
Ph D Thesis, MITTech Report No 251.Swartout, William and Stephen Smoliar.1988 Explaining the Link BetweenCausal Reasoning and Expert Behavior.in Topics in Medical and ArtificialIntelligence, Miller.
P. L.
(ed.)
Springer-Verlag.173 -
