A MODULAR APPROACH TO STORY GENERATIONLyn PembertonSchool of Cognitive and Computing SciencesUniversity of SussexFalmer~BrightonBN1 9QNUnited KingdomABSTRACTOne way of characterising texts is in terms ofthe discourse structures on which they appearto be built.
Each type of text, or genre, e.g.
thesports report, the recipe, the sermon, theproverb, will have associated with it acharacteristic organisation of units.
In thispaper, a general model of the structure of onetext type, the story, is described.
This modelforms the basis of a program which combinesthe general story structure principles with rulesgoveming a particular sub-genre, the OldFrench epic, in order to generate storysummaries.INTRODUCTIONOver the last twelve years, research inPsychology and AI into narrative structure hasbeen marked by acrimonious disputes over theright to existence of the "story grammar"approach.
The point at issue is whether it ispossible, as story grammarians suggest, toidentify structural regularities particular tonarrative texts (Mandler and Johnson, 1980;Pemberton, 1987; Shen, 1988), or whether anystructural regularities hould be interpretedrather as world knowledge, usable in contextsother than stories (Gamham, 1983; Wilensky,1980; Yazdani, 1982).The work described in this paper adopts thestory grammarian position, arguing that ageneral model of story structure may be used,in conjunction with, but separate from, amodel of the "story world", to generate stories.Moreover, a fuller version of such an accountof story generation must draw not only on thegeneral story structure model and the storyworld model, but also on aspects of theaudience, the author, the medium of expressionand the cultural context.TEXT TYPESPeople are able to categorise texts into types,according to the global conditions ofcoherence which they perceive at work intexts.
Knowledge of the particular structures ofeach text type is an element of the culturalcompetence of the speaker/hearer, enablinghim/her to process varieties of cultural artefactsuch as jokes, sermons, weather reports, sets ofinstructions and so on, in appropriate ways(Ryan, 1981).Often, especially in "realistic" texts, it mayseem that these conditions of coherence arereducible to the everyday concepts which weuse to analyse aspects of the real world,especially notions such as plans, goals andintentions.
On the other hand, the fact that thesame real world events, e.g.
a road accident,or a bank robbery, may be represented in textsof widely different types, such as a newspaperarticle, a telegram message, a joke, or aconversational anecdote, indicates thatstructuring models, in addition to thoseimposed by the structure of the content, are atwork in texts.
Such models facilitate the- 217-processing of texts, creating certainexpectations when we recognise a text as aninstance of a particular genre, and providing aset of patterns to guide the creation of newinstances.Text types interact in complex ways with theother categorial features of texts, such ascontent, speaker type, speech situation, registerand speech act identity.
Sometimes, text typesare highly constrained in this regard.
Forexample, conventionally a text of the "sermon"genre is uttered in the "church service" speechsituation, in a formal register: it is normallyproduced only by a priest-figure, and oftenserves as a "warning" or "exhortation" speechact.
Texts of the story genre are not tightlylinked to any such characteristics: they may beexpressed by anyone, in any register, in almostany speech situation, and, while theirillocutionary force is essentially "assertion",their intended perlocutionary forces may bemany and varied.
However, sub-genres such asthe detective story, the narrative ballad, thetraditional folk tale and so on, will imposefurther constraints of their own.A MODEL OF STORY GENERATIONAs this discussion of genre theory implies,story structure cannot be discussed in isolationfrom a variety of other constraints.
A theory ofstory structure for the purposes of textgeneration must be situated within a broadertheory of story production, which can perhapsbest be described in terms of the sorts ofknowledge which contribute to the creation ofa story.
A full story generating system wouldneed access to many different kinds of separatebut interacting knowledge.
These wouldinclude knowledge of:(a) story structureCo) the audience(c) the author(d) the cultural context(e) the rules of the sub-genreKnowledge of the audience will influence whatinformation should be included in the text andwhat can be taken as read.
Characteristics ofthe author may lead, for instance, to choiceswhich give a particular perlocutionary force tothe text: a moralist might insist on a fictionalwrongdoer coming to a sticky end, where acynic might let him/her go unpunished.
Thecultural context refers to the socio-historicalsetting in which the text is produced, whichrestricts the particular sub-genres available:tales of saints' lives, for instance, all the ragein the Twelfth Century, are now out of vogueand so virtually "untellable".
The rules of thesub-genre will place constraints not only onthe content of the text, but also on the choiceof expressive medium and on stylistic choiceswithin the expressive medium: verse will befine for a narrative ballad, inappropriate for adetective story.
It is knowledge of types (a)and (e) which is encoded in the grammar of theOld French epic described below.A STORY GRAMMAR FOR THE EPICThe study reported in (Pemberton, 1984) is anattempt o identify a general model of storystructure, as well as the additional constraintson the form and content of a particular sub-genre, the mediaeval French epic.
Nine poemscomposed in mediaeval France, concerning theadventures of a family of French Christianfighters, were analysed and their narrativestructure described in terms of a grammar.It was found necessary to distinguish betweenvarious levels of analysis of the text.
Thetextual level is that which the readerexperiences directly: in the poems in question,a textual element might be "Guillelmes vitCation" (Guillaume saw Charles).
The textuallevel, which is not included in the study, maybe thought of as the lexicalised version of thelayer of analysis referred to as discourse.
Thisis in turn a modified version of the story line,where the story line is the succession of all theevents in a story, and discourse consists ofthese same events restructured into a form- 218  -suitable for telling.
The story line of adetective story, for instance, would recount thecrime and its detection in chronologicalsequence, while the discourse ordering mightbegin instead with the discovery of the crime.While discourse and story line differ instructure relative to each other, they share thesame elements, which consist of propositionsformed of events and actors.
A typicaldiscourse/storyline element might be"saw(Guillaume, Charles)".
The highest levelof analysis, the narrative model, is the abstractform of the story line.
Units at this level are asfree of content as possible, and consist ofcombinations offunctions and roles.
The set offunctions in the grammar includes elementssuch as "cause," "succeed" and "attempt",while roles are case-like notions such as"subject," beneficiary" and "opponent".
Thenarrative model is a construct applicable tomany different types of story, whereas units ofdiscourse and storyline will be peculiar to thegenre in question.NARRATIVEInformation about story structure takes theform of a grammar, whose starting symbol iscomplex stories.
A complex story consists ofone or more simple stories.
Two stories maybe combined using any of four links: these arecause, where the first story causes the second;motive, where a particular action of the firststory motivates the second; then, where all theactive elements of one story follow all theactive elements of the other, and same actor,where there is merely sharing of one or moreactors.The simple story is expanded into an initialsituation, an active event, and a final situation.Semantic restrictions on the initial situationstate that it must involve two roles, subject andobject or object class, in a relation of lack,while the final situation must consist of anegation or restatement of the initial lack.
Theactive event consists of an event in which thesubject (or a surrogate) attempts to obtain theobject, or a member of the object class.
Eachelement is linked to the next by succession itime, while final situation is linked to theactive event in a causal relationship.The active event is expanded into a five-partstructure consisting of motivation, plan,qualification, action, and resolution.
Themotivation phase consists of the processwhereby the subject or surrogate subjectacquires the will to bring an end to the initialsituation by means of some action.
There aretwo types of motivation: general motivationlooks back to the initial situation, whilespecific motivation looks forward to the actionwhich will end the initial situation.
Aneveryday example will illustrate thisdistinction: a person who is hungry will have ageneral motivation to end that state of hunger,but only when confronted with the sight of,say, a loaf of bread, will s/he acquire thespecific motivation to end the undesirable stateby an action.
The stimuli which bring aboutgeneral and specific motivation are referred toas motivating acts.The plan phase consists of the subject'sacquisition of the knowledge needed toperform the main act: this knowledge isacquired via one or more informing acts.Similarly, qualification is the process ofacquiring the power, material or physical, tocarry out the main act, via a series ofqualifying acts.
The action is the subject'sattempt to obtain the object, while resolution isthe phase in which the success or failure of theaction is made clear, determining whether thefinal situation is to be a negation or areaffirmation of the initial state.
Within tiffsscheme, recursion allows for several attemptsto be made on the same goal, or for a new goalto be set.The terminal elements of this grammar of thenarrative model are narrative motifs, which,when instantiated, will make up thechronological flow of the text.
It is thesemotifs which provide the answer to thequestion "What happened next?"
in the story.- 219  -However, few real-life story texts could bedescribed in terms of the bare minimum ofpropositions generated by the grammar assketched so far: much more richness of detailis required.
The grammar allows for this extradetail by permitting any element of the activeevent to be supplemented by other narrativemotifs, of two types, tied or free.
Tiednarrative motifs are those which expandelements generated by the narrative model: aqualifying act, for instance, may be expressedin several steps, or several motivating acts maytake place.
However, even the simplestnarrative text contains representations ofevents which, while not deriving from thenarrative model, still describe what happenednext (cf.
Shen, 1988).
These are free narrativemotifs, which may illustrate character,exemplify themes, create irony, suggest anhistorical setting, and so on (cf.
Barthes,1970).
Particularly important for the epic is theopposition motif, which serves to hinder,jeopardise or delay some element of the activeevent.STORY LINEThe movement between the elements of thenarrative model and those of the story line maybe seen essentially as a process ofinstantiation, detailing which types of actorsfrom the story world of the genre may fillwhich roles, and which types of events mayserve which functions.
For reasons of space,the reader is referred to (Pemberton, 1984) fordetails of the epic story world.DISCOURSEMapping between story line and discourseinvolves transformations determining whichelements derived from the narrative modelmay go unexpressed in the text, and whichmay be presented out of their original order.Two of the more important deletiontransformations involve the non-expression fhigh level constituents, the plan andqualification phases.
These are necessarybecause few of the stories in the corpuscorrespond exactly to the the problem solvingmodel of human behaviour reflected in the fullform of the grammar.
In particular, only two ofthe simple stories which make up the fifty twostories identified in the texts include anexpression of the plan sequence: in both casesthis happens when the planned action is a ruse.Thus fifty of the stories are without a planningphase.
Moreover, several stories omit bothplanning and qualification: this happens instories where an actor who has provided aid toa successful subject is rewarded, or where he isotherwise presented with the object, withouthaving to carry out any directed action toacquire it.Elsewhere, it is potential redundancy whichallows the safe deletion of elements.
The initialsituation, for instance, is not normallyexpressed.
In cause linked stories, this ispresumably because the audience may beassumed to have heard a first story, such as"Charles won Paris from Saladin" and be ableto infer from it that Saladin now lacks Paris.
Inother examples, it is shared culturalassumptions which make it unnecessary tostate explicitly that, for instance, where a cityis in Saracen hands, a French knight will covetit: to say so would be stating the obvious forthe contemporary audience.Other elements capable of deletion include theresolution and final situation.
In all theseexamples, the principle at work appears to bethat of easy inferability: an element of thecanonical form may go unexpressed whereverit is almost as easy to retrieve as one expressedin the text (Johnson and Mandler, 1980).
Thequalifying and action phases are never omitted.The rules governing movement of elementswill not be discussed in detail here (seePemberton, 1984).
In many stories, the orderof elements as they are presented to the readercorresponds exactly to that of the story line,i.e.
discourse and story line ordering coincide.Departures from the story line order areassociated with the points at which stories are- 220 -interwoven: an example would be when anactor is motivated to pursue one goal whileengaged in the pursuit of another.
This is acommon situation in the texts of the corpus,where a subject often catches sight of hisfuture wife while he is involved in theconquest of a city.The GESTER ProgramThe GESTER program (GEnerating SToriesfrom Epic Rules) is a first step towardsgenerating stories from interacting modules ofindependent knowledge.
The program iswritten in POPLOG Prolog, using Prolog'sgrammar rule facility.
The program has accessto information about story structure, in theform of a simplified version of the narrativegrammar described above, and to the possibleevents and actors of the epic sub-genre, in theform of a simplified version of the discoursegrammar and a database of objects andattributes in the epic world.
In other words, itproduces ummaries from knowledge sources(a) and (e).
No special information about theauthor and audience is introduced, i.e.
theprogram ignores modules (b) and (c), and Iassume that knowledge of the cultural context(d) is adequately represented here by theconstraints imposed by the rules of the sub-genre (e).
Since it would be outside the scopeof the project to produce output in theappropriate linguistic form, i.e.
Old Frenchverse, the program produces ummaries in amakeshift canned English-like representation.The Story Structure Rules are described at alevel of generality which makes it possible forthem to be used in the generation of stories ofany traditional genre when combined withsuitable story world rules and facts.
Thehighest level rules, complex_story, representthe "root" of the parse tree generated by theprogram to represent the structure of the storiesit produces.
At the moment, a complex storyconsists of just two simple stories.
Theprogram generates stories by choosing one ofthe complex_story rules to serve as the rootand then proceeding through the tree, makingchoices as allowed by the constraints imposedby the Story World roles, which in turn refer tothe facts stored in the Story World database,until the terminal symbols are reached.Recursion allows for repeated attempts at agoal before final success or failure, andopposition motifs are also generated.The program uses a variety of features toproduce an acceptably coherent story.
Theymay usefuUy be divided into three groups:firstly, there are story features, which are usedto determine a variety of characteristics of thecomplex story; secondly, role features, whichguarantee one kind of coherence by assigningthe same roles to the same actors throughout astory; and thirdly, transformation features,which regulate the mapping between story lineand discourse levels.
There are four storyfeatures, Link, Resolution, Mode and Motive.Link is the feature which describes the way inwhich the two component stories of thecomplex stories are joined together.
Itspossible values are cause, motive, then andsame_actor, corresponding to the possibilitiesuncovered in the original study.
The resolutionfeature simply determines whether a story willbe successfully resolved, while the modefeature is used to distinguish stories involvingfriendly interactions from those involvinghostility.
The motivation feature allows for thespecification of particular types of motivatingact.The seven role features specify relationsbetween actors.
For instance, there might be astory describing the attack by GuiUaume(Subject) on the city of Saragossa (Object,with Object category city), currently ruled byThibaut (Source), in which he is helped byCharles (Auxiliary), with opposition fromClarion (Opponent), after which Guinaume(Beneficiary) rules the city.The program also incorporates twotransformation features, delete and move, togenerate the story summary to the level ofdiscourse.
Deletion is managed via the delete- 221  -feature, which may have values delete andno_delete.
With delete switched on, some orall of those elements which may legally bedeleted will no longer included in the outputversion.
The move feature, with values moveand no_move, allows for elements of a secondstory to be interwoven with those of the first,according to the rules identified in the originalstudy.The Story Structure Rules use these features togenerate complex stories to the level firstly ofnarrative, then of a simplified form ofdiscourse.The choice of actors and actions to appear in astory is constrained by the rules contained inthe Story World Rules module.
Thesecomprise, firstly, "lexicalisation rules" for thenon-terminal elements generated by thegeneral grammar, e.g.
"try to obtain (a city)" isto be lexicalised as "take by siege" or "take byruse."
Similarly, motivating acts in storiesconcerning the conquest of a city may be:(a) hearsay(b) hearing its defenders are absent(c) presence of allied prisoners in city(d) sight of the city(e) loss of one's own city(f) a taunt from the city's rulerWhen a wife is the object, the subject may bemotivated by:(a) hearsay(b) a love letter from the woman(c) nagging by advisors(d) sight of the woman(e) hearing asong about he womanSecondly, Story World Rules detail therestrictions on possible combinations of actorsand actions.
For instance, while a Christianknight may attempt o marry any Saracenwoman, even one who is already married, aSaracen man may not woo a Christian woman,married or not.
Other rules specify aspects ofloyalty, inheritance, religious belief, marriageand military practice, identified from theanalysis of the Old French corpus.
Some rulesinvolve several inference steps.
For example,to choose an auxiliary, the program first checksto see if any actor is flagged as beingparticularly friendly towards the subject, as aresult of having helped him or having receivedhis help in earlier stories.
If not, an auxiliary issought amongst members of the set of maleco-nationals of the appropriate status (e.g.knights rather than commoners or priests),with a family member, father or brother, beingpreferred to a mere compatriot.
However, if thesubject has previously displeased the potentialauxiliary, perhaps by not rewarding him forservices rendered, he will refuse to help.Similarly, if the subject happens to be a rebel,his family and compatriots will all refuse tohelp him, and he will have to accept an actorof the opposing nation as his ally.
None of thisreasoning, of course, appears in the storysummary itself: it merely serves as its logicalunderpinning.The Story World database module containsnecessary facts about objects and relations.There are only three types of objectrepresented in the database, people, cities anddeities.
Facts such as the social status, maritalstatus, family and social relations, nationalityand gender are found here, ready to be calledon by the Story World Rules.
Obviously this isonly a very small proportion of the facts whichwould have to be made available to the rest ofthe program if it were to produce storiesrivalling the richness of incident found in theepic.The program's output consists of the string ofterminal elements making up the content of thestory, together with a representation of itsparse tree.
An example story is set out below.This is a complex story in which the Frenchking, Charles, wins first the city of Narbonne(S1), then a Saracen wife, Blancheflor, whomhe sees while invading the city ($2).
In orderto produce this summary, the programdetermines possible subject-objectcombinations for the first story, choosing- 222 -appropriate acto~ for the supponing roles.
Atvarious poin~ in the processing, inferences aremade about obligatory and option~ even~.
Forinstance, Charles, as king, has no need to askpermission of his monarch before seaing out toconquer the caste, as a mere knight would.
InS1, the subject and auxiliary are not near theobject as the gory begins and so must fide toNarbonne, whereas this is unnecessary in $2,~nce Blancheflor is ~ready in Narbonne.Various events of $2 are influenced by even~of SI: for instance, since Charles forged toreward his ally, Aymeri, in S1, Aymeri isunwiUing to help in the action of $2.
In asimilar way, while Thibaut opposed Charles inS1, he cannot do so in $2, as he is in prison.The summary was generated with the Linkfeature inganti~ed to produce a motive-linkedgory, and with both deletion and movementoptions chosen.
Elements of the nan~ivewhich are dele~d because the delete option ischosen have been written in by hand, for thepurposes of demonstration.
?- complex story (motive, Resolution,Mode, Motive, move, delete,Subject, Category, Object,Beneficiary, Auxiliary, Source,Opponent, Nresolution, Nmode,Nmotive, Nsubject, Ncategory,Nobject, Nbeneficiary, Nauxiliary,Nsource, Nopponent, Tree,Complex_story, \[\]).Charles lacked a city.\[*Charles lacked a wife.\]As a result of hearing of NarbonneCharles wanted Narbonne.\[Then Charles planned to obtainNarbonne for Charles.\]Then Aymeri agreed to help Charles.Then Charles and Aymeri rode toNarbonne.\[Then Charles was ready to try toobtain Narbonne.\]Then, Charles attacked the walls ofNarbonne, currently controlled byBaufumez, helped by Aymeri.Thibaut and Clarion threw burningpitch down on Charles and Aymeri.Charles and Aymeri retreated.Then, Charles attacked the walls ofNarbonne, currently controlled byBaufumez, helped by Aymeri.Thibaut and Clarion threw stones downon Charles and Aymeri.Charles and Aymeri broke intoNarbonne.
*As a result of seeing BlancheflorCharles wanted Blancheflor.Charles succeeded in getting Narbonne.Charles praised God.
Charles forgot toreward Aymeri.
Charles threw Thibautinto prison.\[Then as a result of getting NarbonneCharles no longer lacked a city.\]Then Charles planned to obtainBlancheflor for Charles.Then Aymeri refused to help Charlesbecause he was not rewarded.Then Bertrand agreed to help Charles.\[Charles was now ready to try toobtain Blancheflor.\]Charles abducted Blancheflor,currently controlled by Thibaut helpedby Bertrand.Because Thibaut was in prison he didnot oppose Charles and Bertrand.Clarion opposed Charles and Bertrandin getting Blancheflor.Charles succeeded in gettingBlancheflor.Charles praised God.Charles rewarded Bertrand.\[Then as a result of gettingBlancheflor Charles no longer lacked awife.\]The following not~ions are added forclarification:* = moved element\[ \] = de~ted element- 223 -FUTURE EXTENSIONSThe work described here represents a first stepin implementing a model of story generation.The program now needs to be extended in anumber of directions.
Firstly, each of themodules must be enriched to enable greaterdetail, greater variety of incident, and morecomplexity of structure.
The inclusion of amore complex mapping between role andactor, to allow for the distribution amongseveral actors of a single role, will be a firststep here.
Secondly, the story structure ruleswill be applied to a representation of adifferent story world, possibly that of the fairytale or the romantic short story, in order to testthe independence of the modules.
A further,more ambitious extension, would be to attemptto incorporate a mapping from the level ofdiscourse, to the textual level: work by Ashby(1976) and Heinemann (1973) indicates uch amapping to be achievable for at least a subsetof discourse motifs.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSMy thanks to Aaron Sloman and JamesGoodlet for comments on an earlier version ofthis paper.REFERENCESAshby, Genette.
1976.
A Generative Grammarof the Formulaic Language in the SingleCombat in the Chanson de Roland.
PhDDissertation: University of Columbia.Barthes, Roland.
1970.
S/Z.
Paris: Seuil.van Dijk, Teun A.
1972.
Some Aspects of TextGrammars.
The Hague: Mouton.1980.
Macrostructures : AnInterdisciplinary Study of GlobalStructures in Discourse, Interpretationand Cognition.
New York: LawrenceErlbaum.Gamham, Alan.
1983.
What's wrong withstory grammars.
Cognition, 15: 145-54.Heinemann, Edward A.
1973.
Compositionstylisee et technique litteraire dans laChanson de Roland.
Romania, 94: 1-27.Johnson, Nancy S. and Jean M. Mandler.1980.
A Tale of Two Structures:underlying and surface forms in stories.Poetics, 9: 51-86.Mandler, Jean M and Nancy S. Johnson.
1980.On Throwing Out the Baby with theBathwater: A Reply to Black andWilensky's Evaluation of StoryGrammars.
Cognitive Science, 4: 305-312.Mann, William.
1984.
Discourse Structures forText Generation.
COLING-84: 367-375.Pemberton, Lyn.
1984.
Story Structure: ANarrative Grammar of Nine Chansons deGeste of the Guillaume d'Orange Cycle.PhD dissertation: University of Toronto.1987.
A Story Grammar for the OldFrench Epic.
MSc dissertation:University of Sussex.Propp, Vladimir.
1928, 1968.
Morphology ofthe Folktale.
Austin, Texas: Universityof Texas Press.Rumelhart, David E. 1975.
Notes on a schemafor stories.
In D.G.
Bobrow and A.M.Collins, eds, Representation andUnderstanding.
New York: AcademicPress.Ryan, Marie-Laure.
1981.
On the Why, Whatand How of Generic Taxonomy.Poetics, 10: 109-126.Shen, Yeshayahu.
1988.
Schema Theory andthe Processing of Narrative Texts: theX-bar Story Grammar and the notion ofDiscourse Topic.
Journal of Pragmatics,12: 639-676.Wilensky, Robert.
1983.
Story grammarsversus story points.
Behavioral andBrain Sciences, 6: 579-623.Yazdani, Masoud.
1982.
How to write a story.ECAI-82 : 259-60.- 224-
