REMARKS ON PLURAL ANAPHORA*Carola Eschenbach, Christopher Habel, Michael Herweg, Klaus Rehk/imperUniversit~it Hamburg, Fachbereich Informatik, Projekt GAPBodenstedtstr.
16D-2000 Hamburg 50e-mail: HABEL at DHHLILOG.BITNETABSTRACTThe interpretation of plural anaphoraoften requires the construction of complexreference objects (RefOs) out of RefOswhich were formerly introduced not byplural terms but by a number of singularterms only.
Often, several complex RefOscan be constructed, but only one of them isthe preferred referent for the plural anaphorin question.
As a means of explanation forpreferred and non-preferred interpretationsof plural anaphora, the concept of a Com-mon Association Basis (CAB) for thepotential atomic parts of a complex object isintroduced in the following.
CABs poseconceptual constraints on the formation ofcomplex RefOs in general.
We argue that incases where a suitable CAB for the atomicRefOs introduced in the text exists, the cor-responding complex RefO is constructed asearly as in the course of processing the ante-cedent sentence and put into the focusdomain of the discourse model.
Thus, thesearch for a referent for a plural anaphor isconstrained to a limited domain of RefOsaccording to the general principles of focustheory in NLP.
Further principles of inter-pretation are suggested which guide theresolution of plural anaphora in cases wheremore than one suitable complex RefO is infocus.
* The research on this paper wassupported in part by the DeutscheForschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) under grantHa 1237/2-1.
GAP is the acronym for"Gruppierungs- und Abgrenzungsgrozessebeim Aufbau sprachlich angeregter mentalerModelle" (Processes of grouping andseparation in the construction of mentalmodels from texts), a research projectcarried out in the DFG-program "KognitiveLinguistik".1.
INTRODUCTIONMost approaches toprocessing anaphoraconcern themselves mainly with the case ofsingulars and deal only peripherally with thecomplications of plurals.
An analysis ofplural anaphora should answer the followingadditional questions:1) How are the referents of plural termsrepresented bydiscourse ntities (internalproxies)?2) How is the link between plural anaphoraand suitable antecedent discourse ntitiesestablished?3) How are complex discourse ntities con-structed from atomic ones?4) When are complex discourse entitiesconstructed in the process of text com-prehension?The present paper addresses primarily thethird and fourth questions.
However, wewill give some sketchy answers to the firstand second questions as well.We consider only two-sentence t xts inwhich the second sentence contains ananaphoric pronoun that refers to entitiesintroduced in the first sentence by variousconstructions:(1) a.
The children were at the cinema.They had a great ime.b.
Michael and Maria were at the cinema.They had a great ime.c.
Michael was at the cinema with Maria.They had a great ime.d.
Michael met Maria at the cinema.They had a great ime.The question is: To which entities, i.e.complex discourse ntities, does the pluralanaphor th_h~ refer?
Surely in (1.a) to the onecorresponding to the children, and in (1.b),(1.c) and (1.d) to Michael and Maria.
Up tonow, most analyses of plural anaphora- 161-investigate cases of the (1.a)- or (1.b)-type,i.e.
those in which the complex object is in-troduced explicitly, either by a simple pluralNP or by a conjunction of singular or pluralNPs (which in both cases yields a plural NPas well).2.
A SKETCH ON PLURALITYWe assume -as  is common in mostrecent approaches to anaphora in AI andlinguistic semantics (e.g.
Webber 1979,Kamp 1984)-  a representation level ofdiscourse referents, which are internalproxies of objects of the real (or a possibleor fictional) world.
These discourse ntities,called reference objects (RefOs), are storedand processed ina net-like structure, called areferential net (RefN), which links RefOsand designations.
(For a detailed escriptionsee Habel 1982, 1986a, 1986b and Eschen-bach 1988.)
The term "RefO" is, whenstrictly used, a technical notion which isemployed in the framework of our formal-ism only.
For reasons of simplicity of expo-sition, we do not want to restrict he use of"RefO" to this formalism in the presentpaper, but rather apply the term to referentsalso, i.e.
the objects to which names,descriptions and pronouns refer.RefOs for complex objects are con-structed by means of a sum operation (Link1983), so that with respect to (1.b), we havethe following entries (among others) in theRefN.rl Michaelr2 Mariar3 = rl ?
r2The sum operation (symbolized by ~) isthe semantic ounterpart of the NP-connec-tive and.
It defines a semi-lattice (Link 1983,Eschenbach 1988).
By means of this struc-ture, both complex and atomic RefOs can beseen as objects of the same logical type andare accessible by the same set of referentialprocesses.
No operations on RefOs otherthan the sum operation will be considered inthe present context.3.
CONSTRAINTS ON SUM FOR-MATIONSentences like (1.a) and (1.b) demon-strate that complex discourse referents canbe created by plural NPs.
But there are otherlinguistic indicators for the creation of com-plex RefOs.1 The anaphoric pronoun they of(1.c) and (1.d) as well as (1.b) refers to acorresponding complex RefO.
It is obviousthat besides conjunctions (e.g.
and), someprepositions and verbs trigger processes ofsum formation (with-PPs and meet are out-standing examples of these types of con-structions.)
In (1.c), Michael ... with Mariatriggers the formation of Michael ~ Mafia.But consider the following texts:(2) a. Michael and Mafia were at the parkwith Peter.In the evening they were at a gardenparty.b.
Michael and Mafia were at the parkwith their frisbee.In the evening they were at a gardenparty.In (2.a) it is possible that they refers toMichael ~ Maria ~ Peter.
But in (2.b) theyis preferably linked to Michael ~ Maria;even if Michael and Mafia happened to taketheir frisbee to the garden party, we wouldnot want to claim that the plural anaphor theyin (2.b) refers to a complex discourse ntityconsisting of Michael, Mafia and the frisbee.In the preferred reading 6f (2.b), the frisbeeis excluded from the antecedent of theanaphor.We have to explain why with-PPs onlycause sum formation in certain cases.
Theproposed solution to this problem is theconcept of a Common Association Basis(CAB), which is introduced in Herweg(1988).
The CAB is an extension of theCommon Integrator (CI), which Lang(1984) developed in his general theory ofcoordinate conjunction structures.1 The assumption of indicators andconstraints contrasts to the less restrictiveassumption of Frey & Kamp's (1986) DRT-oriented analysis of plural anaphora, inwhich they claim that "any collection ofavailable reference markers, whethersingular or plural, can be 'joined together' toyield the antecedent with which the pronouncan be connected" (p. 18).- 162  -Grouping by with depends on the condi-tion that "x with y" leads to "x ~ y" only inthose cases in which a CAB-relation is ful-filled.
The most relevant constraint given byCAB is the condition that x and y areinstances of the same ontological type at themost fine-grained level.
This means twohumans are good candidates to form a com-plex RefO, whereas a frisbee, which doesnot fall under the ontological type of humansor animate objects, and the human playersare not.CAB constraints apply not only to caseslike (1.c) and (2.b), but to sum formation ingeneral.
Consider this example:(3) Michael and his frisbee were at thepark.Here the conjunction explicitly forces thesum formation of objects of different onto-logical types.
This is at least unusual and hasa strange ffect.
However, explicit conjunc-tion by ~nd presupposes the existence of asuitable CAB for the conjoined entities.
Theaddressee must assume that the conjunctionin (3) involves an instruction to derive sucha CAB (or simply concede that one exists).Thus, to make conjunctions like the one in(3) acceptable and natural, one normally hasto assume a CAB which is not explicitlyspecified or immedeatly derivable from theinformation conveyed in the sentence itselfbut which is given by the preceding or extra-linguistic ontext.
In (3), the required CABmight simply be something like 'the entitiesdesperately being looked for by Michael'schildren'.
In isolation however, forced sumformations like the one in (3) must be con-sidered marginally acceptable.We now have the following situation:Grouping depends on properties of theRefOs in question, namely whether a CABexists which constitutes a conceptual relationamong the RefOs with respect o situationalparameters given, for example, by predica-tive concepts.
Furthermore, it is obvious thatworld knowledge and the theme of thediscourse give evidence for which (complex)RefO is most appropriate as the antecedentof an anaphoric pronoun.
We will proposethat these factors can be handled by CABs aswell.This leads us to Herweg's (1988) Princi-ple of Connectedness:All sub-RefOs of a complex RefO mustbe related by a CAB.Now consider example (1.d).
It showsthat some lexical concepts possess what wecall grouping force, i.e.
they trigger sumformation with respect to atomic RefOs.
Thegrouping force of a lexical concept can beseen as a special case of a CAB.
Withoutgoing into details of the representationformalism we can formulate the relevant sumformation processes by this rule:If "x meets y", then construct he com-plex RefO x ~ y.The status of this sum formation rule issimilar to that of classical inference rules,which are used for bridging processes in thesense of Clark (1975).
Not all verbs possessa grouping force as strong as meet; e.g.
thegrouping force of watch is considerablylower.
Consider:(4) a. Michael met Peter and Maria in thepub.
They had a great ime.b.
Michael watched Peter and Maria inthe pub.
They had a great ime.In (4.b), the sum of Maria and Peter issignificantly preferred to the sum includingMichael as the antecedent of they.
In (4.a),there presumably is a preference to theopposite, i.e.
to link they to the sum con-sisting of all three persons.
In contrast ohighly associative verbal concepts like meet,watch must be classified as a dissociativeelement which does not constitute a CAB forits arguments but induces a conceptual sepa-ration.
Part of the explanation for this prop-erty of watch is to be seen in the (normallyunderstood) local separation of subject andobject in the situation described.
Again incontrast to meet, this local separation usuallyprevents an interaction or some other kind ofcontact which allows one to assume a suit-able link (i.e.
a CAB) for the persons intro-duced based on properties of the situationwhich the sentence describes.4.
ANAPHORA RESOLUTION ASA SEARCH PROCESS?Many classical approaches to anaphoraresolution are based on search processes.- 163  -Given an anaphor, a set of explicitly intro-duced referents is searched for the bestchoice.
2The crucial point is: "How to deter-mine the set of possible antecedents?
"The most simple solution is the historylist "of all referents mentioned in the lastseveral sentences" (Allen 1987, p. 343).Note that most DRT-based anaphora resolu-tion processes (Kamp 1984, Frey & Kamp1986) by and large follow this line, with afew modifications concerning structuralconditions in terms of an accessibility rela-tion.But there is also a different perspectivewhose key notion is the well-establishedconcept of focus (see e.g.
in ComputationalLinguistics Grosz & Sidner 1986) 3.
As isshown by psychological experiments (andetailed overview is given by Guindon1985), a very limited number of discoursereferents are focussed.
Referents in thefocus, which can be described in psycho-logical terms as short term memory (seeGuindon), are quickly accessed; especiallypronouns are normally used to refer to itemsin the focus and therefore xtensive search ismostly unnecessary.
The most relevantquestion with respect o focus is "Whichitems are currently in the focus?
''4.
Answers2 Note that the unspecifity of pronounsseldom allows the triggering of bridginginferences (see Clark 1975) to selectreferents which are only implicitlyintroduced.3 Cf.
Bosch (1987) and Allen (1987;chap.
14).
Both give convincing argumentsagainst he simplistic view of identifyinganaphora resolution with searching.
Sincewe address matters of pronominal naphoraonly, we here assume a rather simpleconcept of focus.
Further differentiations(e.g.
Garrod & Sanford's (1982) division offocus into an explicit and implicitcomponent) which might become necessaryif non-pronominal anaphora re investigatedas well are out of the scope of the presentpaper.4 A question closely related to this,namely at which point of time and in whatto this question determine which referentscan be antecedents of pronouns.5.
PLURALS IN FOCUSFollowing the line of argumentation insection 4, the possibility of a reference to acomplex RefO with a plural pronoun as in(1) means that such a complex RefO is in thefocus after processing the first sentence.Thus it is worth taking a closer look at thequestion as to when a complex RefO isformed.
There are essentially two opportu-nities to construct a complex RefO fromatomic RefOs: it can be constructed and putinto the focus when the atomic RefOs arementioned, or the construction might besuspended until an anaphor triggers the sumformation.
5 The second solution has someundesirable consequences; the worst is thatthe methods of resolving plural anaphoraand singular anaphora must be completelydifferent.
Since the complex RefOs wouldnot be in the focus, a direct access to thefocussed entities could not solve the prob-lem.
In such cases, the construction processwould be triggered uring anaphora resolu-tion.
Thus the processing of they withrespect o Michael (...) with Maria in (1.c)and Michael met Maria in (1.d) should bemore complicated than the cases of thechildren or Michael and Maria, an assump-tion for which no evidence xists as yet.Therefore, we take the former choice ofconstructing the complex RefO while pro-cessing the atomic RefOs.
Again, this sug-gests two possibilities, namely to constructthe complex RefO and put only this into thefocus, or to introduce both the complex andthe atomic RefOs into the focus.
As aworking hypothesis, we propose the latterprocedure, since the sentences like (5),way the focus is updated, is not relevant aslong as we confine ourselves to textscontaining only two sentences.
However, itbecomes important when the analysis isexpanded to multiple sentence t xts.5 This distinction corresponds toCharniak's (1976; p. 11) well-knowndichotomy of read-time and question-timeinferences.- 164-which contain singular anaphora (cf.
(1)),are fully coherent:(5) a. Michael and Mafia were at the cinema.He/She had a great ime.b.
Maria was at the cinema with Michael.He/She had a great ime.c.
Michael met Mafia at the cinema.He/She had a great ime.That these findings do not depend onlinguistic introspection ly is established byprocessing-time experiments, which arereported in Mtisseler & Rickheit (1989).
6The initial results of the experiments suggestthat the complexities of processing singularor plural anaphora (of sentences like (1) vs.(5) are not significantly different 7.
Theanaphoric accessibility ofthe complex RefOswhich are introduced by the sentences listedabove is by no means worse than the acces-sibilty of the atomic RefOs.Let us summarize the discussion so far:There are linguistic concepts -such asconjunctions, prepositions and lexical con-cepts-  which trigger the construction ofcomplex RefOs.
The atomic RefOs as wellas the complex RefO (which is formed by6 Mtisseler's and Rickheit's research atthe University of Bielefeld is also carded outin a project in the DFG-Program "KognitiveLinguistik".
This project collaborates withours on reference phenomena fromcomputational and psycholinguistic points ofview.7 This holds at least for cases where theantecedent of the singular anaphor is insubject/topic position.
Questions concerningthe accessibility of singular antecedents innon-subject/non-topic ositions are notdefinitely settled as yet (see Mtisseler &Rickheit 1989).
Since Mtisseler's andRickheit's experiments are confined toGerman, which has a single form ~ie for 3rdpl.
pronoun (they) and 3rd sg.
fern.
pronoun(she), not all of their results on theprocessing-time of singular anaphora withantecedents in different structural positionscan be applied to English.the sum operation) are introduced into thefocus.
Thus, resolution of anaphora can beperformed by processes on the focus notinvolving extensive search.6.
FURTHER PRINCIPLES OFANAPHORA RESOLUTIONFurther interesting problems can be ob-served in the interaction of concepts whichpossess grouping capacity.
Consider:(6) a. Michael and Maria picked up Peterand Anne from the station.They were happy to see each otheragain.b.
Michael and Mafia picked up Peterand Anne from the station.They were late.Here the following atomic and complexRefOs exist:rl - Michaelr2 - Mariar3 Peterr4 Anner5 =r l  ~r2r6 = r3 ?
r4r7 =r5 ?
r6 = rl ?
r2 ?
r3 ~r4In the preferred interpretation, they in(6.a) refers to r7, in (6.b) either to r5 or r6.
Itfollows from this analysis that more thanone complex RefO can be in focus.
Whichone is the most appropriate to link to thepronoun depends on two principles (seeHerweg 1988):Principle of Permanence:It is prohibited (unless the text explicitlyrequires it) to link the plural pronoun to aproper sub-RefO of a complex RefO infocus.
Reference to a sub-RefO is only pos-sible if it was introduced explicitly into thediscourse model by a previous inference.Principle of Maximality:The plural anaphoric pronoun should belinked to the maximal sum of appropriateRefOs with respect to a suitable CAB,unless the text contains explicit evidence tothe contrary.The interaction of the principles of Con-nectedness, Permanence and Maximality canlead to correct and natural anaphora resolu-tion in (6).
For (6.a), maximality and per-- 165  -manence require a maximal sum, which isrT; in (6.b), knowledge about he situationsof picking someone up and being lateexcludes r7 (i.e.
no CAB can be establishedwhich is simultaneously satisfied by allatomic parts of r7; therefore, the condition ofconnectedness i  not fulfilled) and thus givesevidence for a sub-RefO, namely either 5 orr6.
The principle of Permanence excludesother combinations ofatomic RefOs, such asrl ?
r3, r2 ?
r3, etc.
Whether 5 or r6 ischosen at last can not be decided on the basisof the above mentioned principles alone.These examples how that a conflict resolu-tion strategy is needed, as is not unusual forsuch principles.7.
IMPLEMENTATIONThe RefN-processes and sum formationare currently being implemented in Quintus-PROLOG on a MicroVax workstation.
Thepresent implementation allows one to repre-sent and create RefOs and (1) their descrip-tions by way of designators (internal proxiesfor names and definite NPs), (2) their de-scriptions by way of attributes, which spec-ify properties (sorts) of the represented ob-jects themselves (not their designations) andrelations between them.
E.g.
sums are rep-resented by the use of attributes to RefOs.The set of RefOs with their descriptionscan be structured, so that different RefNs,whether or not they are independent fromeach other or related by shared RefOs, maybe represented in parallel.The representation of a sample text withinthe formalism is being worked.
The transferof segments of the text into simple nets isnot being done automatically but by hand.For each anaphor, a corresponding RefOis created but specially marked as an ana-phoric RefO.
This is intended to trigger theautomatic resolution of anaphora.In the near future, it is planned to- determine the potential antecedent-refer-ents for an anaphor out of the set of allRefOs which are available;- define the requirements concerning therepresentation f focus; it is planned totest different formats of representation;- structure the nets in order to representCABs.The function of the last two steps men-tioned is to put further estrictions on the setof potential antecedent-referents for agivenanaphor.8.
SUMMARYCompared to the case of singular pro-nouns, the resolution of anaphoric pluralpronouns requires an additional step of pro-cessing: the sum formation.
It is guided byvarious grammatical nd lexical evidence,which is accumulated to form a commonassociation basis (CAB).
The principle ofconnectedness controls the sum formation,by which the restriction to a very limitednumber of complex RefOs is possible.
Therole of focus with respect to plural anaphorais similar to the singular case, but poses thequestion as to when the sum formation iscarried out in the process of text compre-hension.
The resolution processes of thesingular and plural cases can be made iden-tical by assuming that, in cases where asuitable CAB is available, the sum formationtakes place early, i.e.
while processing theantecedent sentence(s).
The principles ofPermanence and Maximality are two princi-ples which are valid especially for pluralanaphora.The use of CABs and the mentionedprinciples of sum formation is a way toavoid the inadequacies of prior approachesto plural anaphora, which mostly seem tofollow the motto "Anything oes".ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSWe thank Ewald Lang, Geoff Simmons(who also corrected our English) and AndreaSchopp for stimulating discussions and threeanonymous referees from ACL for theircomments on an earlier version of thispaper.REFERENCESAllen, James F. (1987): Natural Lan-guage Understanding.
Benjamin/Cummings:Menlo Park, Ca.Bosch, Peter (1987): Representation a dAccessibility of Discourse Referents.
IBMStuttgart.
(Lilog Report No.
24)- 1 6 6 -Charniak, Eugene (1976): Inference andKnowledge, part 1. in: E. Charniak &Y. Wilks (eds.
): Computational Semantics.North Holland: Amsterdam, 1-21.Clark, Herbert H. (1975): Bridging.
inP.
N .
Johnson-Laird & P. Wason (eds.):Thinking.
Cambridge UP: Cambridge, 411-420.Eschenbach, Carola (1988): SRL alsRahmen eines textverarbeitenden Systems.GAP-Arbeitspapier 3.
Univ.
Hamburg.Frey, Werner & Kamp, Hans (1986):Plural Anaphora and Plural Determiners.Ms., Univ.
Stuttgart.Garrod, Simon C. & Sanford, Antony J.
(1982): The Mental Representation of Dis-course in a Focussed Memory System:Implications for the Interpretation ofAnaphoric Noun Phrases.
Journal of Se-mantics 1, 21-41.Grosz, Barbara & Sidner, Candace(1986): Attentions, Intentions, and theStructure of Discourse.
Computational Lin-guistics 12, 175-204.Guindon, Raymonde (1985): AnaphoraResolution: Short-term emory and focus-ing.
23rd Annual Meeting ACL, 218-227Habel, Christopher (1982): ReferentialNets with Attributes.
in: Proceedings ofCOLING-82, 101-106.Habel, Christopher (1986a): Prinzipiender Referentialit~it.
Springer: Berlin.Habel, Christopher (1986b): Plurals,Cardinalities, and Structures of Determina-tion.
in: Proceedings of COLING-86.
62-64.Herweg, Michael (1988): Ans~itze zueiner semantischen und pragmatischenTheorie der Interpretation pluraler Anaphern.GAP-Arbeitspapier 2.
Univ.
Hamburg.Kamp, Hans (1984): A Theory of Truthand Semantic Interpretation.
in: Groenen-dijk, J. et al (eds.
): Truth, Interpretationand Information.
Dordrecht: Foris, 1-41(GRASS 2).Lang, Ewald (1984): The Semantics ofCoordination.
John Benjamins: Amsterdam.Link, Godehard (1983): The LogicalAnalysis of Plurals and Mass Terms: ALattice-theoretical Approach.
in: R. B~iuerleet al (eds.
): Meaning, Use, and Interpreta-tion of Language.
Berlin: de Gruyter, 302-323.Mtisseler, Jochen & Rickheit, Gert(1989): Komplexbildung in der Textverar-beitung: Die kognitive Aufl6sung pluralerPronomen.
DFG-Projekt "Inferenzprozessebeim kognitiven Aufbau sprachlich angereg-ter mentaler Modelle", KoLiBri-Arbeits-bericht Nr.
17, Univ.
Bielefeld.Webber, Bonnie L. (1979): A FormalApproach to Discourse Anaphora.
Garland:New York.~_~ - 167-
