TENSE GENERATION IN AN INTELLIGENT TUTOR FORFOREIGN LANGUAGE TEACHING:SOME ISSUES IN THE DESIGN OF THE VERB EXPERTDanilo FUM (*), Paolo Giangrandi(?
), Carlo Tasso (o)(*) Dipartimento dell~ducazione, Universita' di Trieste, Italy(o) Laboratorio di Intelligenza Artificiale, Universita' di Udine, Italyvia Zanon, 6 - 33100 UDINE, Italye.mail: tasso%uduniv.infn.it@icineca2.bitnetABSTRACTThe paper presents some of the resultsobtained within a research project aimed atdeveloping ET (English Tutor), an intelligenttutoring system which supports Italianstudents in learning the English verbs.
Weconcentrate on one of the most importantmodules of the system, the domain (i.e.
verb)expert which is devoted to generate, in a cog-nitively transparent way, the right tense forthe verb(s) appearing in the exercisespresented to the student.
An example whichhighlights the main capabilities of the verbexpert is provided.
A prototype version of EThas been fully implemented.1.
INTRODUCTIONIn the course of its evolution, English has lostmost of the complexities which stillcharacterize other Indo-European languages.Modern English, for example, has nodeclensions, it makes minimum use of thesubjunctive mood and adopts 'natural' genderinstead of the grammatical one.
Thelanguage, on the other hand, has becomemore precise in other ways: cases have thusbeen replaced by prepositions and fixed wordorder while subtle meaning distinctions can beconveyed through a highly sophisticated useof tense expressions.
Learning correct verbusage is however extremely difficult for nonnative speakers and causes troubles to peoplewho study English as a foreign language.
Inorder to overcome the difficulties which canbe found in this and several other grammaticalareas, various attempts have been made toutilize Artificial Intelligence techniques fordeveloping very sophisticated systems, calledIntelligent Tutoring Systems, in the specificdomain of foreign language teaching(Barchan, Woodmansee, and Yazdani, 1985;Cunningham, Iberall, and Woolf, 1986;Schuster and Finin, 1986; Weischedel, Voge,and James, 1978; Zoch, Sabah, and Alviset,1986).An Intelligent Tutoring System (ITS, forshort) is a program capable of providingstudents with tutorial guidance in a givensubject (Lawler and Yazdani, 1987; Sleemanand Brown, 1982; Wenger, 1987).
A full-fledged ITS: (a) has specific domainexpertise; (b) is capable of modeling thestudent knowledge in order to discover thereason(s) of his mistakes, and (c) is able tomake teaching more effective by applyingdifferent utorial strategies.
ITS technologyseems particularly promising in fields, likelanguage teaching, where a solid core of factsis actually surrounded by a more nebulousarea in which subtle discriminations, personalpoints of view, and pragmatic factors areinvolved (Close, 1981).In this paper we present some of the resultsobtained within a research project aimed atdeveloping ET (English Tutor), an ITS whichhelps Italian students to learn the English verbsystem.
An overall description of ET, of itsstructure and mode of operation has beengiven elsewhere (Fum, Giangrandi, andTasso, 1988).
We concentrate here on one ofthe most important modules of the system, thedomain (i.e.
verb) expert which is devoted togenerate, in a cognitively transparent way, theright tense for the verb(s) appearing in theexercises presented to the student.
The paperanalyzes ome issues that have been dealtwith in developing the verb expert focusing124 -on the knowledge and processing mecha-nisms utilized.
The paper is organized asfollows.
Section two introduces our approachto the problem of tense generation in thecontext of a tutor for second languageteaching.
Section three briefly illustrates theET general architecture and mode ofoperation.
Section four constitutes the core ofthe paper and presents the design re-quirements, knowledge bases and reasoningalgorithms of the verb expert ogether with anexample which highlights its maincapabilities.
The final section deals with therelevance of the present proposal both in theframework of linguistic studies on verbgeneration and of intelligent tutoring systemsfor language teaching.2.
THE TENSE GENERATIONPROBLEMAn important part of the meaning of asentence is constituted by temporalinformation.
Every complete sentence mustcontain amain verb and this verb, in all Indo-European languages, is temporally marked.The tense of the verb indicates the relationbetween the interval or instant of time inwhich the situation (i.e.
state, event, activityetc.)
described in the sentence takes place andthe moment in which the sentence is uttered,and may also indicate subtle temporalrelations between the main situation and othersituations described or referenced in the samesentence.
Other information can be derivedfrom the mood and aspect of the verb, fromthe lexical category which the verb is amember of and, more generally, from severalkinds of temporal expressions that mayappear in the sentence.
Moreover, the choiceof the tense is determined by otherinformation, ot directly related with temporalmeaning, such as speaker's intention andperspective, rhetoric characteristics ofdiscourse, etc.
Very complex relations existamong all these features which nativespeakers take into account in understanding asentence or in generating an appropriate nsefor a given clause or sentence.The problem of choosing the right verb tensein order to convey the exact meaning asentence is intended to express has arousedthe interest of linguists, philosophers, logi-cians and people interested in computationalaccounts of language usage (see, for example:Ehrich,  1987; Fuenmayor,  1987;Matthiessen, 1984).
There is however noagreement on, and no complete theoreticalaccount of, the factors which contribute totense generation.
The different proposalswhich exist in the literature greatly varyaccording to the different features that areactually identified as being critical and theirlevel of explicitness, i.e.
which features aregiven directly to the tense selection processand which must be inferred through someform of reasoningOur interest in this topic focuses ondeveloping a system for tense selectioncapable of covering most of the cases whichcan be found in practice and usable forteaching English as a foreign language.
Abasic requirement which we have followed indesigning ET is its cognitive adequacy: notonly the final result (i.e.
the tense which isgenerated), but also the knowledge andreasoning used in producing it should mirrorthose utilized by a human expert in the field(i.e.
by a competent ative speaker).
The ITSmust thus be an 'articulated' or 'glass-box'expert.3.
THE ET SYSTEMET is an intelligent tutoring system devoted tosupport Italian students in learning the usageof English verbs.
The system, organizedaround the classical architecture of an ITS(Sleeman and Brown 1982), consistsessentially of:- the Tutor, which is devoted to manage theteaching activity and the interaction with thestudent,- the Student Modeler which is able toevaluate the student's competence in thespecific domain, and- the Domain (i.e.
verb) Expert which is anarticulated expert in the specific domain dealtwith by the system.In what follows, in order to better understandthe discussion of the Domain Expert, asketchy account of the system mode ofoperation isgiven.- 125  -At the beginning of each session, the Tutorstarts the interaction with the student bypresenting him an exercise on a given topic.The same exercise is given to the DomainExpert which will provide both the correctsolution and a trace of the reasoningemployed for producing it.
At this point, theStudent Modeler compares the answer of thestudent with that of the expert in order toidentify the errors, if any, present in theformer and to formulate some hypothesesabout heir causes.
On the basis of these hy-potheses, the Tutor selects the next exercisewhich will test the student on the criticalaspects pointed out so far and will allow theModeler to gather further information whichcould be useful for refining the hypothesespreviously drawn.
Eventually, when somemisconceptions have been identified, therefined and validated hypotheses will be usedin order to explain the errors to the studentand to suggest possible remediations.
When atopic has been thoroughly analyzed, the Tutorwill possibly switch to other topics.4.
THE DOMAIN EXPERTThe Domain Expert is devoted to generate thefight answers for the exercises proposed tothe student.
Usually, exercises are constitutedby a few English sentences in which some ofthe verbs (open items) are given in infinitiveform and have to be conjugated into anappropriate tense.
Sometimes, in order toavoid ambiguities, additional informationdescribing the correct interpretation (as far asthe temporal point of view is concerned) ofthe sentence is given.
Consequently, theDomain Expert must be able:i) to select he grammatical tense to employfor each open item of the exercise in order tocorrectly describe the status of the world thesentence is intended to represent, andii) to appropriately conjugate the verbaccording to the chosen tense.Besides these basic functionalities, thetutoring environment in which the DomainExpert operates imposes a furtherrequirement, i.e.
the expert must be able:iii) to explain to the student how the solutionhas been found, which kind of knowledgehas been utilized, and why.While the sentences that are presented to thestudent are in natural language form, the verbexpert receives in input a schematicdescription of the sentence.Every sentence of the exercise is constitutedby one or more clauses playing a particularrole in it (major clauses and minor clauses atvarious levels of subordination).
Each clauseis represented inside the system through aseries of attribute-value pairs (called exercisedescriptors) that highlight the informationrelevant for the tense selection process.
Thisinformation i cludes, for example, the kind ofclause (main, coordinate, subordinate),whether the clause has a verb to be solved,the voice and form of the clause, the kind ofevent described by the clause, the timeinterval associated with the event described inthe clause, etc.
Some of the exercisedescriptors must be manually coded andinserted in the exercise data base whereas theothers (mainly concerning purely linguisticfeatures) can be automatically inferred by apreprocessor devoted to parsing the exercisetext.
For instance, the schematic descriptionof:ET > EXERCISE-1:7 (live) in this house for ten years.
Now theroof needs repairing.
'is the following (with the items automaticallyinferred by the parser preceded by the symbol@):EXERCISE: ex 1text: 'I (live) in this house for ten years.
Nowthe roof needs repairing.
'@sentence_structure: el, c2@clauses to resolve: clCLAUSE: cltext: 'I (live) in this house for ten years'@clause_kind: main@clause_verb: live@ superordinate: nil@subordinate: nil@previous_coordinate: nil@clause_form: aff'mnative@subject: I@ subjecLcase: \[singular fi st\]@voice: active@evenLtime: tl@time_expression: \['for ten years' t2\]- 126  -@category: stateaspect: persistentcontext: informalintentionality: nilCLAUSE: c2TIME_RELATIONS: exlmeet(t2, now)equal(tl, t2).When solving an open item, the DomainExpert must infer from the exercisedescriptors all the remaining informationneeded to make the final choice of theappropriate tense?
This information isconstituted by several tense features, each onedescribing some facet of the situation that isnecessary to take into account?
The choice ofwhich tense features are to be considered inthe tense selection process represents afundamental step in the design of the verbgeneration module.
This problem has noagreed upon solution, and it constitutes one ofthe most critical parts of any theory of tensegeneration (Ehrich, 1987; Fuenmayor, 1987;Matthiessen, 1984).
The main featuresconsidered by the Domain Expert are listedbelow?
Some of the features are alreadyincluded in the exercise descriptors (1 to 4),whereas the others must be inferred by thesystem when solving the exercise (5 to 8):1.
Category, which identifies the kind ofsituation described by the clause (e.g., event,state, action, activity, etc.).2.
Aspect, which concerns the differentviewpoints that can be utilized for describinga situation.3.
Intentionality, which states whether thesituation describes acourse of action that hasbeen premeditated ornot.4.
Context, which concerns the type ofdiscourse in which the clause or sentenceappears.5.
Duration, which refers to the time span(long, short, instantaneous, etc.)
occupied bya situation.6.
Perspective, which refers to the positionalong the temporal axis of the situation or toits relation with the present time.7.
Temporal Relations, which refer to thetemporal relations (simultaneity, contiguity,precedence, etc.)
that occur between thesituation dealt with in the current clause andthe situations described in other clauses?8.
Adverbial Information, which is related tothe meaning of possible temporal adverbialsspecified in the same clause.The Domain Expert operation is supported bya knowledge base constituted by a partitionedset of production rules which express in atransparent and cognitively consistent waywhat is necessary to do in order to generate averb tense?
Its activity is mostly concernedwith the derivation of the tense featuresstrictly related to temporal reasoning.
Theexercise descriptors include for this purposeonly basic information related to the specifictemporal adverbials or conjunctions whichappear in the exercise.
This information isutilized to build a temporal model of thesituation described in the exercise.
Initially,the temporal model is only partially knownand is then augmented through the applicationof a set of temporal relation rules?
This rulesconstitute a set of axioms of a temporal logic -similar to that utilized by Allen (1984)- whichhas been specifically developed for: (a)representing the basic temporal knowledgeabout the situations described in the exercise;(b) reasoning about hese knowledge in orderto compute some of the tense features notexplicitly present in the schematic descriptionof the exercise.
The first task of the expertmodule is therefore that of deriving possiblenew relations which hold among situationsdescribed in the exercise.In the schematic description of exercise 1 wecan see two time relations explicitly asserted:meet(d, now) andequal(tl, t2).The meaning of the fast clause is that the timeinterval t2 (corresponding to the temporalexpression 'for ten years') precedes and iscontiguous to the time interval indicated bynow (i.e.
the speaking time)?
The meaning ofthe second clause is that the time interval tl(representing the state or event expressed bythe main verb) is equal to the time interval t2.From the explick time relation it is possible toderive, by employing the following timerelation rule:meet(tx, ty) & equal(tx, tz) => meet(tz, ty).the inferred relation:127 -meet(t1, now).The Domain Expert tries then to infer, forevery exercise clause, the so-called referencetime, i.e., the moment of time which thesituation described in the sentence refers to(Matthiessen, 1984; Fuenmayor, 1987).
Inorder to determine the reference time of everyclause, the expert utilizes a set of referencetime identification rules whose condition parttakes into account the structural description ofthe sentence.An example of reference time identificationrule is the following:IF1 - clause_kind =main,2 - previous_coordinate = nil ORnew_speaker = nil ORclause_form =interrogative,3 - time_expression <> nilI 'HENset the reference_time to the most specifictime expressionBy applying this rule to the structuraldescription of Exercise 1 it is possible to inferthat the reference time of the clause cl is theinterval t2 that, being the only time expressionpresent in the clause, is also the most specificone.When all the reference times have beendetermined, the Domain Expert looks only forthe clauses with open items in order tocompute (through the temporal axioms) threeparticular temporal relations (Ehrich, 1987):deictic (between reference time and speakingtime: RT-ST), intrinsic (between event imeand reference time: ET-RT) and ordering(between event ime and speaking time: ET-ST).
When these relations have beencomputed, all the needed tense features areknown, and the final tense selection can beperformed.
Again, a set of selection rulestakes care of this activity.In our example, the following selection rulescan be applied:IFI - category = state ORcategory = iterated_action,2 - meet(event_time, now),3 - meet(reference_time, now),4 - equal(event_time, r ference_time),5 - aspect -- persistentTHENapply the present perfect ense.I F1 - category = single_action ORcategory = state,2 - meet(evenLtime, now),3 - meet(reference_time, now),4 - equal(event_time, r ference_time),5 - duration <> short,6 - aspect = persistent,7 - context <> formal,8 - verb accepts ing_formTHENapply the present perfect continuous tense.which provide two different (both correct)solutions for the open item.Once the tense to be used has been identified,the verb is conjugated utilizing an appropriateset of conjugation rules.
In our example thepresent perfect is obtained through theapplication, among others, of the followingrules:IFtense = present perfectTHENthe verb sequence is formed with:- simple present of 'to have'- past participle of the verb.IF1 - tense = past participle,2 - verb is regularTHENthe verb sequence is formed with:- 'ed-form' of the verb.5.
CONCLUSIONSIn the paper we have presented some issuesinvolved in the design of a verb generationmodule within a research project aimed atdeveloping an ITS capable of teaching theEnglish verb system.
A first prototype of EThas been fully implemented in MRS (LISPaugmented with logic and rule-programmingcapabilities and with specific mechanism forrepresenting meta-knowledge) on a SUN 3workstation.- 128 -Our primary goal in this phase of the projecthas been the cognitive adequacy of the verbexpert.
In order to develop it, we took apragmatic approach, starting with theidentification of the features traditionallyconsidered by grammars, constructing rulesof tense selection grounded on this featuresand, finally, refining features and rulesaccording to the results obtained through theiruse .The work presented here relates both to theresearch carried out in the fields of linguisticsand philosophy, concerning theories of verbgeneration and the temporal meaning ofverbs, respectively, and the field of intelligenttutoring systems.
As far as the first topic isconcerned, we claim that teaching a foreignlanguage can constitute a good benchmark forevaluating the soundness and completeness ofsuch theories.
In the field of foreign languageteaching, on the other hand, the only way tobuild articulated, glass-box experts is toprovide them with language capabilities suchas those devised and described by linguistictheories.REFERENCESAllen, J.F.
(1984) Towards a General Theoryof Action and Time.
Artificial Intelligence,23, 123-154.Barchan, J., Woodmansee, B.J., andYazdani, M. (1985) A Prolog-Based Tool forFrench Grammar Analyzers.
InstructionalScience, 14.Close, R.A. (1981) English as a ForeignLanguage.
London: Allen & Unwin.Cunningham, P., Iberall, T., and Woolf, B.
(1986) Caleb: An intelligent second languagetutor.
Proceed.
IEEE Intern.
Confer.
onSystems, Man, and Cybernetics.
LosAlamitos, CA: Computer Soc.
IEEE, 1210-1215.Ehrich, V. (1987) The Generation of Tense.In: G. Kempen (Ed.
), Natural LanguageGeneration.
Dordrecht, The Netherlands: M.Nijhoff, 423-44.Fuenmayor, M. E. (1987) Tense UsageCharacterization a d Recognition for MachineTranslation.
IBM Los Angeles ScientificCentre Report 1987 - 2796, Los Angeles,CA.Fum, D., Giangrandi, P., and Tasso, C.(1988) The ET Project: Artificial intelligencein second language teaching.In: F. Lovis andE.D.
Tagg (Eds), Computers in Education.Amsterdam, The Netherlands: North-Holland, 511-516.aLawler, R.W.
and Yazdani, M.
(Eds.)
(1987)Artificial Intelligence and Education.Norwood, NJ: Ablex.Matthiessen, C. (1984) Choosing Tense inEnglish.
USC Research Report 84-143.University of Southern California.Schuster, E. and Finin, T. (1986) VP2: Therole of user modeling in correcting errors insecond language learning.
In: A. G. Cohnand J.R. Thomas (Eds.)
Artificial Intelligenceandlts Applications.
New York, NY: Wiley.Sleeman, D. H. and Brown, J. S.
(eds.
)(1982) Intelligent Tutoring Systems.
London:Academic Press.Weischedel, R.M., Voge, W.M., and James,M.
(1978) An ,amificial Intelligence Approachto Language Instruction.
Artif icialIntelligence, 10, 225-240.Wenger, E. (1987) Artificial Intelligence andTutoring Systems.
Los Altos, CA: MorganKaufmann.Zoch, M., Sabah, G., and Alviset, C. (1986)From Structure to Process: Computer assistedteaching of various strategies of generatingpronoun construction i French.
Proceed.
ofCOLING-86, Bonn, FRG, 566-569.129 -
