ON THF.
SYNTACTIC-SEMANTIC  ANAT,YSISOF  BOUND ANAPHORA1WA~fred PinkalUniversit~t Saarbriicken, ComputerlinguistikD-6600 Saarbriicken, Gexrp~-yE-Mail: pinkal@coH.uni-sb.deABSTRACTTwo well-known phenomena in the areaof pronoun binding are considered:Indirect binding of pronouns by indefiniteNPs ("donkey sentences") and surface-syntactic constraints on binding ("weakcross-over").
A common treatment isproposed, and general consequences forthe relation between syntactic andsemantic processing are discussed.
It isargued that syntactic and semanticanalysis must interact in a complex way,rather than in a simple sequential or strictrule-to-rule fashion.1.
A SEMANTIC BINDING CONDITION:STANDARD ACCOUNTWe start our considerations on the mecha-nism of pronoun binding with the ten-tative formulation of a semantic bindingcondition in (I):(I) ANP  can bind pronouns in its scopeTaken that the "scope of a NP" means thescope of the (generalized) quantifier theNP  translates to, and that pronouns aresemantically represented by individualvariables, Binding principle (1) more orless directly corresponds to the conditionson variable binding in predicate logic,and therefore has a great deal of intuitiveplausibility with it.
Accordingly, it isexplicitly or silently assumed as the basicprinciple for pronoun binding in manytheoretical and computational approachesto the semantics of natural language.Principle (1) makes correct predictionsfor a wide range of natural anguage x-amples (we disregard the distinction bet-ween reflexive and non-reflexive pro-nouns throughout this paper).
E.g., it ex-plains why sentence (2) is fine, whereas(3) is impossible (binding is indicated inthe usual way by co-indexing).
(2) \ [NPEvery  student\]i admires hisiteacher(3) * If \[NPevery student\]i admires hisiteacher, hei is a fool2.
A REVISED SEMANTIC BINDINGCONDITION: DRTBinding principle (1) has turned out to betoo restrictive.
The indicated binding inSentence (4), below, is fine although a bookcannot take scope over the main clausewhere the bound pronoun occurs: It shouldnot take wide scope for syntactic reasons(it occurs in a relative clause which is aclear case of an island construction), andif it did, the wrong semantics would result(globally, it functions as a universal ra-ther than an as an existential quantifier,in (4)).
(4) Every professor who owns \[NP a book\]ireads itiThis is the well-known "donkey-sentenceproblem" which motivated the DRT-stylereformulation of natural  languagesemantics (Discourse RepresentationTheory: Kamp 1981; File Change Se-mantics: Helm 1982).
The solution thatDRT provides for the donkey sentence- 45  -problem can be roughly outlined asfollows: The common semantic functionof non-anaphorical noun phrases is theintroduction of a new discourse referent,which is in turn available for the bindingof anaphoric expressions.
Beyond thisbasic function, non-anaphorical nounphrases subdivide into genuine quanti-tiers (e.g., every professor), and non-quantificational NPs (e.g., the indefiniteNP  a book).
Only the former bear scope.An every-NP, e.g., triggers the intro-duction of a complex condition of the formK I ~ K2, where K 1 and K 2 are sub-DRSesrepresenting the restriction and the scopeof the quantification respectively.
In-definite NPs  just contribute a newdiscourse referent (together with somedescriptive material in terms of con-ditions on the discourse referent), which isplaced in a larger structure.
This largerstructure can be the top-level DRS or somesub-DRS according to the sentence-inter-nal environment of the analyzed NP.Indefinite NPs  do not have scope bythemselves.
It follows that Principle (1)cannot apply to Sentence (4), if it is takenliterally.
However, the model-theoreticinterpretation for complex conditions isdefined in a way that indefinite NPsshare quantificational force and scopewith their "host quantifier" (i.e., thequantificational NP  whose representationcontains the discourse referent introducedby the indefinite on the top-level of itsrestriction part).
Accordingly, an inde-finite NP  should observe the restrictionson binding imposed by that largerquantificational structure.
Therefore, theoriginal binding principle (1) must bereplaced by something like (5).
(5) A NP a can bind a pronoun ~ providedthat ~ is in the scope of the host ~lanti f ierof a's discourse referent.Actually, the revised binding principle (5)permits binding in (4), whereas theindicated binding in (6) is excluded underthe preferred reading where everyprofessor outscopes a book, which is inaccordance with intuitions.
(6) * If every professor owns \[NP a book\]i,a student reads itiStandard DRT tries to give a generalaccount for the constraints on anaphoricbinding by specifying an accessibilityrelation between positions in a complexDRS.
The formulation of the revisedbinding principle in (5) is obviouslyneither general nor precise enough toreplace the standard DRT treatment.
Wewill come back to the point in Section 4.3.
A SYNTACTIC B INDING CONDI-TIONThe scope of noun phrases is not deter-mined by their surface syntactic position.
(7) Every professor owns a bookExpressed in terms of conventionalpredicate logic or generalized quantifiertheory, Sentence (7) is ambiguous betweena narrow-scope reading and a wide-scopereading of the existential NP a book.
Theformer corresponds to the constituentstructure of (7), the latter is due to a"delayed application" of the existentialNP, which can be brought about bydifferent syntactic and semantictechniques (e.g., Quantifier Raising:May  1985, Cooper Storage: Cooper 1983).Scope variation leads to an additionaldifficulty with the binding principle (1): IfNPs  (i.e., quantifier terms, on theStandard account) are applied in situ,their semantic scope precisely parallelstheir c-command domain in surfacestructure.
Examples of postponedquantifier application disturb theparallelism and by that provide evidencethat the syntactic c-command concept isrelevant for binding in addition to thesemantic notion of scope.
(8) *A student of hisi admires \[NP everyteacher\]iIn Sentence (8), every teacher may takescope over the indefinite NP a student ofh/s.
That the pronoun h/s is in the scope of- 46  -the quantifier is obviously insufficient tolicense binding, which seems to beblocked by the fact that the object NP  doesnot c-command the pronoun.
This pheno-menon, the so-called "Weak-CrossoverEffect", shows that the semantic principle(1) is too weak to properly constrain ana-phoric binding, and has lead to a syntacticbinding principle the classical formu-lation of which is given in (9) (cf.
Rein-hart 1983, Williams 1986).
(9) A NP  can b ind  pronouns  in  its c-comm~rld omain.As more recent theoretical work hasshown, the c-command condition is onlyan approximation to reality (cf.
Stowell1989).
However, the precise definition ofthe c-command relation and the syntacticcondition as a whole is not crucial for theargument.
The important point is thatanaphoric binding is apparentlydependent on genuinely syntactic facts:The decision of whether a pronoun can bebound by a NP  cannot be made on the basisof semantic information only.
There arebasically two possible ways out: On theone hand, one can pass the task ofspecifying anaphoric relations completelyto syntax (this is the answer of GBgrammarians).
On  the other hand, onecan make certain portions of syntacticinformation available for semanticprocessing (proposals are made in Pol-lack/Pereira 1988, Latecki/Pinkal 1990).The choice between the two solutionsseems to some extent to be a matter of taste:Plausibility reasons as well as efficiencyconsiderations for natural language pro-cessing speak against the first solution.The fact that one has to import and processsyntactic information within semanticinterpretation seems to be a certainmethodological drawback.
I will comeback to the question after having dis-cussed a further complication in the nextsection.4.
BINDING, SYNTACTIC AND SE-MANTIC CONDITIONS TOGETHERIn the last section, the phenomenon ofscope ambiguity and its consequences foranaphoric binding have been consideredon the background of the standardsemantic framework.
Obviously, a two-reading analysis for sentences like (7)must be provided in a DRT-basedanalysis, as well, although it must beaccounted for in a slightly different way.The two readings of (7) do not differ in therelative scope order of two quantifiers.Rather, the difference is that on thenarrow scope reading, the discoursereferent introduced by a book occursinside the complex condition establishedby the universal NP  (its host quantifier),whereas on the wide-scope reading itoccurs on the top-level of the DRS.Scope ambiguities are not treated in theoriginal DRT version; they are difficult tomodel with procedural DRS constructionrules that operate on surface syntacticstructures.
There is however a convenientand straightforward way to combine theDRT formalism with the technical meansof lambda-abstraction.
(10) indicates howrepresentations of the NPs  every professorand a book as partially instantiatedDRSes can be given using lambda-ab-straction over predicative DRSes (Thelatter are obtained from standard DRSesby abstraction over a discourse referent.The "(9" sign in (10) is an operator whichmerges two DRSes.
)(1o)x = S(x) professor (x)I Y eR(y)  book (y),One effect of this modification of DRT isthat semantic representations can beconstructed compositionally, in a bottom-up fashion.
Another consequence is that- 47 -the s tandard  techniques for delayedapplication become available in the DRTf ramework .Not surprisingly, we run into difficultieswith the revised semant ic  b ind ingcondition (5) in connection with the weakcrossover cases, as soon as we treat scopeambiguit ies in a DRT-style analysis.According to (5), both the standard weakcrossover example (8) and the inverteddonkey sentence (11) should be acceptable.
(11) *Itsi readers admire every professorwho writes \[NP a book\]iSince the discourse referent provided by abook takes its place at the top level of therestriction part of the every-NP, the in-definite should count as a proper ante-cedent for the pronoun on the readingwhere the every-NP takes wide scope overthe whole sentence.
If in addition thesyntactic binding principle (9) isobserved, cases like (8) and (11) arecorrectly ruled out: Neither every teacherin (8) nor a book in (11) c-command therespective pronouns.
But unfortunately,also those cases of anaphoric binding areblocked which provided the original moti-vation for DRT, namely the donkey-sen-tence cases discussed above.
In sentence(4), the antecedent NP a book definitelydoes not c-command the pronoun it.Examples like (8) and (11) demonstratethat a syntactic condition on binding hasto be observed, also under a DRT-basedanalysis.
The considerations of the lastparagraph however show that thissyntactic condition cannot be c-commandbetween antecedent and pronoun.
A modi-fication of the syntactic binding principle(9) appears to bring about the rightpredictions: It is not the antecedent whichmust c-command the pronoun, but thequantificational NP, the host operator ofthe antecedent's discourse referent.
In (4),the pronoun it is in the c-commanddomain of the NP every professor whoowns a book, whereas in (8) and (11),where binding is impossible, the uni-versal NP does not c-command the pro-noun.In (12), a revised version of the syntacticprinciple (9) is proposed.
(12) A NP a can bind a pronoun ~ prov idedthat  ~ is in the c~ommand omain of thehost q, lanti f ier of a's discourse referent.The revised principles (5) and (12) to-gether capture the complex conditions onbinding in donkey sentences.
They arenot general enough, however, for they donot say anything about the bindingconditions on indefinites which are notassociated to the restriction of a genuinequantifier term.
In the following, a moredynamic formulation of the binding ruleis given, which has larger coverage andcontains the interaction of quantificationand indefinites in donkey sentences as aspecial case.We assume that the immediate effect of theanalysis of a pronoun is just theintroduction of a discourse referent, whichis also marked as a candidate forbinding.
Each semantic representationcontains together with the DRS infor-mation about the unbound pronominaldiscourse referents.
Binding can takeplace whenever a NP  denotation (quanti-ficational or indefinite) is applied to apredicative DRS, according to (13).
(13) When the denotat ion  a o f  a nounphrase  A is appl ied to a predicat ive DRSXuK, any  tol~level discourse re ferent  of  acan  b ind  an  unbound pronomina l  dis-Course re ferent  of  K, p rov ided  that  therespect ive  pronoun is in the c~ommRnddomain o f  A.Rule (13) also accounts for the differentstatus of (14) and (15), where (15) is ex-cluded by the syntactic constraint.
(14)  \ [NPA teacher\]i admires a student ofhisi(15) *A student ofhisi admires \[NP ateacher\]i- 48  -5.
A GENERAL RESULT FOR SYN-TACTIC-SEMANTIC PROCESSINGThe results of the last section haveconsequences for the over-all view ofsyntactic-semantic processing of natural-language sentences containing anaphoricpronouns.
The revised binding principle(12) relates the pronoun ~ and itsantecedent cz indirectly, by making refe-rence to the quantifier term 7 which even-tually contains the discourse referent ofthe antecedent NP.
Now, the relationbetween the pronoun ~ and the host quanti-fier 7 is a syntactic one, whereas therelation between 7 and the antecedent a isa semantic relation: Up to which positionin the DRS the discourse referenteventually percolates will only turn out,when the corresponding portion ofsemantic analysis is done.This means that the decision between thetwo ways of specifying anaphoric rela-tions which were mentioned at the end ofSection 3 is no longer a matter of taste:The linguistic data force a choice in favorof the second alternative.The possible anaphoric relations in asentence cannot be specified by thesyntactic component only: Some amountof semantic processing must precede the c-command check (in order to know whichconstituents are to be checked).
And theycannot be specified by the semanticcomponent only, since there are obviouslysurface-syntactic constraints on binding.Therefore the strict sequential model ofsyntactic and semantic processing: co-indexing in the syntactic component andstrictly deterministic semantic inter-pretation, which is explicitly or implicitlyfavored by adherents of the Government-and-Binding approach, cannot be main-tained (if we disregard the theoreticallypossible, but highly non-deterministicmethod of random indexing and semanticfiltering).
Also, anaphora cannot betreated as a matter of syntax-free se-mantics.
Syntax and semantics mustinteract in a non-trivial way in order todetermine what an admissible antecedentfor an anaphoric pronoun is.6.
IMPLEMENTATIONThe described interaction between syntaxand semantics suggests a processingmodel with independent, but freely inter-acting modules in the spirit of principle-based parsing.
Actually, an implemen-tation of a principle-based NL  system witha semantic module covering the pheno-mena discussed in this paper in inpreparation.
It will basically be an ex-tension of the system described in Millies(1990).A more conventional system for DRT-based syntactic-semantic analysis thatgenerates admissible scope readings hasbeen implemented in Quintus Prolog atthe University of Hamburg, in a DCGstyle grammar  system.
A declarativeversion of DRT is used, which bearscertain similarities to the one described inZeevat (1989).
Semantic interpretation iscarried out in parallel to syntacticanalysis.
Scope readings are producedusing a modified version of CooperStorage, which is equivalent in its resultsto Nested Cooper Storage (Keller 1988) andthe Hobbs-Shieber-Algorithm (Hobbs/Shieber 1987), but employs an efficientindexing technique to check violations offree variable constraint and syntacticisland constraints.An extension of the system which checksthe admissibility of anaphoric relations isunder work at Saarbriicken University.
c-command is checked by another versionof the above-mentioned indexing tech-nique (described in Latecki 1990) Rele-vant syntactic information is importedinto semantics by attaching index sets toterm phrases in the storage; it is activatedat the time of the (delayed) application ofthe quantifier term.
The system fortreating quantifier scope as well as itsextension to anaphoric binding aredescribed in Latecki/Pinkal (1990).- 49  -BEFERENCESCooper, Robin (1983): Quantification andSemantic Theory.
Dordrecht: ReidelHeim, Irene (1982): The Semantics ofDefinite and Indefinite Noun Phrases.Diss.
Amherst, Mass.Hobbs, Jerry R. / Shieber, Stuart M. (1987):An Algorithm for Generating QuantifierScopings.
Computational Linguistics 13,47-63Kamp, Hans (1981): A Theory of Truthand Semantic Representation.
In:Groenendijk, Jeroen, et al, FormalMethods in the Study of Language.Amsterdam: Mathematical CenterKeller, William R. (1988): Nested CooperStorage: The Proper Treatment ofQuantification in Ordinary NounPhrases.
In Reyle, Uwe / Rohrer,Christian(eds.
), Natural LanguageParsing and Linguistic Theories, 432-447,Dordrecht: Reidel.Latecki, Longin (1990): An IndexingTechnique for Implementing CommandRelations.
To appear.Latecki, Longin/Pinkal, Manfred (1990):Syntactic and Semantic Conditions forQuantifier Scope.
To appear in: JiirgenAllgayer (ed.
), Proc.
of the Workshop onPlurals and Quantifiers, GWAIMay, Robert (1985): Logical Form, ItsStructure and Derivation.
Cambridge,Massachusetts, London, England: TheMIT PressMillies, Sebastian (1990): Ein modularerAnsatz fiir prinzipienbasiertes Parsing.IWBS-Report, IBM: StuttgartPollack, Martha / Pereira, Fernando(1988): An integrated Framework forSemantic and Pragmatic Interpretation.26th Annual Meating of the Associationfor Computational Linqulstics, June 1988,Buffalo, New York, USA.Reinh~,  Tanya (1983): Anaphora andSema~ Interpretation.
University ofChlca~,~PressStow&l~ T. (1989): Adjuncts, arguments,and ~'~over .
Ms. UCI.~Williamm, Edwin (1986): A Reassign-ment of the Functions of LF.
LinguisticInquiry :17.
265-299.Zeevat, Henk (1989): A CompositionalApproach to Discourse RepresentationTheory, Linguistics and Philosophy 12,95-131.:- 50  -
