SUBLANGUAGES IN MACHINE TRANSLAT IONHeinz-Dirk LuckhardtFachrichtung 5.5 lnformationswissenschaftUniversit~it des SaarlandesD-6600 Saarbriicken, Federal Republic of GermanyABSTRACTThere have been various attempts atusing the sublanguage notion for disambi-guation and the selection of target languageequivalents in machine translation.
In thispaper a theoretical concept and its imple-mentation in a real MT application are pre-sented.
Above this, means of linguisticengineering like weighting mechanisms areproposed.INTRODUCTIONIt has been proposed by a number ofauthors (cf.
Kittredge 1987, Kittredge/Lehr-berger 1982, Luckhardt 1984) to use thesublanguage notion for solving some of thenotorious problems in machine translation(MT) such as disambiguation a d selectionof target language quivalents.In the following, I shall give a roughsummary of what sublanguages can contri-bute to the solution of concrete MT pro-blems.A SUBLANGUAGE CONCEPT FORUSE IN MT SYSTEMSTo my knowledge, it was Z. Harriswho introduced the term 'sublanguage' (cf.Harris 1968, 152) for a portion of naturallanguage differing from other portions ofthe same language syntactically and/orlexically.
Definitions are gwen byHirschman/Sager (1982), Quinlan (1989)and Lehrberger (1982).In order to be able to use suchcharacterizations in MT, they have to beformalized in a way adequate to the MTsystem in question.
Such formalizableproperties were combined in the definitionof Luckhardt (1984) of what sublanguagecan mean for MT:Text type represents thesyntactic-syntagmatic level of a sublangua-ge for which only a rather weakdifferentiation can be proposed (e.g.
runningtext, word list, nominal structures etc.
).Subiect field represents the lexicallevel of a sublanguage, i.e.
for everysublanguage a subject field is determined asbeing characteristic, so that the MT systemmay choose on the basis of the sublanguageof a text those translation equivalents fromthe lexicon which carry the same subjectfield code as the translated text.The lack of a commonly acceptedsubject field classification for MT Is aserious problem.
Such a classification istentatively proposed in Luckhardt/Zimmer-mann 1991.T~xt function represents the lexical-pragmatic level.
The function of a text (orits target group) may determine the choiceof TL equivalents and of syntactic structureor style.The inhouse usage criterion covers anumber of aspects determined by specialrequests of the MT user or the firm orderingthe translation.
This is first of all a questionof inhouse terminology.SUBLANGUAGES FOR MT:MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTSA typical maintenance r quirement card ofthe Bundessprachenamt (Federal Translati-ons Agency) among others contains the fol-lowing parts:.
0esignation ofeauipmenttext type 'nominal structure'text function 'title'e.g.
: 'Portable gasoline driven pump'.
tools, parts, material~text type 'word list'text function 'accessories'; e.g.
:- key set, head screw, L-type hex- wrench, adjustable, open end 6"- solvent, type II- screwdriver, flat tip, medium duty- rags, wiping- 306 -3. the basis of word order: oroceduretext type 'instructions'(imperative style)text function 'maintenanceinstructions', e.g.
:'Accomplish annually or when directedas a result of operational test.
Clean andinspect fuel filter and float valve;- remove pump housing covers, if applicable- observe no smoking regulation- remove choke knob and fuel connection- remove float chamber and gasket- clean all parts in solvent, allow to air dry- inspect filter for clogging,tears, and deterioration'(cf.
Wilms 1983)The example indicates how nicely thedifferent sublanguages of this type ofdocument can be differentiated, and itought to be possible in all MT systems tocapture these differences, especially thetypical 'imperative style' of the text type'instructions'.
In order to achieve this itmust be possible to weight rules orresulting structures like in the SUSYsystem (cf.
Thiel 1987).
This is important,because there is no absolute certainty thatall predicate structures appear asimperatives in English or as infinitives inGerman.THE USE OF SUBLANGUAGES IN THESTS PROJECT AND SYSTEMSince 1985 the SUSY system has beenused as the core MT system within thecomputer-aided Saarbriicken TranslationSystem (STS), i.e.
in human-aided MTand in machine-aided human translation.Titles of scientific papers from Germandatabases were machine-translated andpostedited by humans, abstracts weretranslated by translators (in all around 5million words), with the MT systemautomatically supplying the correctterminology (from a terminology pool ofmore than 350.000 German-English entries).In the following a specific aspect ofsublanguage-dependent disambiguation isdescribed.SEMANTICS OF PREPOSITIONS INTITLES?
Highly ambiguous prepositions like 'zu','fiber' etc.
can be safely disambiguated on'Zur Optimierung von Waldschadenserhe,bungen' => 'The optimization of wooddamage surveys''Zur Riickgewinnung yon W~rn?verpflichtet' => 'Obliged to recover heat''Technologien zur Verminderung vonAbf'allen' => 'Technologies for thereduction of waste''Uber Arbeit und Umwelt' => 'Labour andenvironment'A 'zu'-phrase at the beginning of a title (thetop node of the nominal structure) alwaysdenotes a TOPIC (lst example), otherwise(3rd example) a purpose.
'Uber' at thebeginning also denotes a TOPIC.
Theserules only apply, if the PP is not embeddedin a predicate structure like in the 2ndexample, where it fills the zu-valency of'verpflichtet'.
So, if the parser produces astructure like the following:SUBJECT: none GOAL:riickgewinneniOBJECT: W~-methere only has to be lexical transfer =>obligeSUBJECT: none / ~ ~ ~ ' ~ ~  recover!OBJECT: heatto present a structure to generation thatcames enough information to produce theEnglish translation given above ('Obliged torecover heat').Similarly, examples 1. and 3. can berepresented by the parser in a way whichallows the generation of the correct targetlanguage quivalent, e.g.
:'Zur Optimierung von Waldschadenserhe-bungen'TOPIC: ~)ptimierungOBJECT: Waldschadenserhebung- 307 -transfer =>TOPIC: optimizationIOBJECT: wood damage surveygeneration =>'The optimization of wood damage surveys'The surface realization of the semantic rolesTOPIC and OBJECT is a task for zenerati-von, i.e.
transfer can be completely relievedof rules treating such semantic roles (cf.Luckhardt 1987).CONCLUSIONSublanguage is a notion MT developersought to turn their attention towhen their system has reached astable and robust state offering thenecessary tools and methods oflanguage ngineering like weightingmechanismswhen their system is about to beapplied to large volumes of text withdistinct sublanguage characteristicsif a terminological data base systemhas been established which makes itpossible to cover the lexical andinhouse usage levels ofsublanguages and which can beaccessed by the MT systemif the necessary machine-readableterminology is at hand.A sublanguage is not as easy to implementas it may appear from a first glance at textsof a specific corpus, however distinct thattype of text may look.
Very often theapparently formalizable criteria turn out tobe useless for MT, although any humanreader could easily formulate them.
TheMETEO ideal of a sublanguage surelycannot be reproduced easily.REFERENCESHarris, Z.
(1968).
Mathematical Structuresof Language.
Wiley-InterscienceHirschman, L.; N. Sager (1982).
Automaticinformation formatting of a medicalsublanguage.
In: Kittredge/Lehrber-ger (eds., 1982)Keil, G.C.
(1982).
System Conception andDesign.
A Report on Software Deve-lopment within the project SUSY-BSA.
Saarbrticken: Universit~it desSaarlandes: Projekt SUSY-BSAKittredge, R. (1987).
The Significance ofSublanguage for Automatic Trans-lation.
In: S. Nirenburg (ed.).
Machi-ne Translation.
Theoretical and Me-thodological Issues Cambridge Uni-versity PressKittredge, R.; J. Lehrberger (ed., 1982).Sublanguage.
Studies of Language inRestricted Semantic Domain.
Berlin/ New YorkLehrberger, J.
(1982).
Automatic Translati-on and the Concept of Sublanguage.In: Kittredge/Lehrberger ( .ds., 1982)Luckhardt, H.-D. (1984).
Erste Uberlegun-gen zur Verwendung desSublanguage-Konzepts in SUSY.
In:Multilingua 3-3/1984- (1987).
Der Transfer in der maschinellenSprachiibersetzung.
Tiibingen: Nie-meyer(1989a).
Terminologieerfassung und-nutzung im computergestiitztenSaarbriicker TranslationssystemSTS.
In: H.H.
Zimmermann; H.-D.Luckhardt (eds., 1989).
Der compu-tergestiitzte Saarbriicker Translati-onsservice STS.
VerSffentlichungender FR 5.5 Informationswissen-schaft.
SaarbrtickenLuckhardt, H.-D.; H.H.
Zimmermann(1991).
Computer-Aided and Machi-ne Translation.
Practical Applicati-ons and Applied Research.
Saar-briicken: AQ-VerlagQuinlan, E. (1989).
Sublanguage and the re-levance of sublanguage to MT.
Un-published paper.
EUROTRA-IRELAND.
DublinThiel, M. (1987).
Weighted Parsing.
In: L.Bolc (ed.).
Natural Language Par-sing Systems.
Berlin: SpringerWilms, F.-J.
(1983).
SUSY-BSA: Abschlufl-dokumentation.
Teil I. Saarbriicken:Universitlit des Saarlandes: ProjektSUSY-BSA- 308 -
