AN ASSESSMENT OF  SEMANTIC  INFORMATION AUTOMATICALLYEXTRACTED FROM MACHINE READABLE D ICT IONARIESJean  V~ron is  1.2and Nancy  Ide  ttDepartrnent of Computer ScienceVASSAR COLLEGEPoughkeepsie, New York 12601 (U.S.A.):~Groupe Representation et Traitement des ConnalssancesCF_.~E NATIONAL DE LA RECHERCHE SCIENTIFIQUE31, Ch.
Joseph Aiguier13402 Marseille Cedex 09 (France)ABSTRACTIn this paper we provide a quantitative evaluation ofinformation automatically extracted from machinereadable dictionaries.
Our results how that for any onedictionary, 55-70% of the extracted information isgarbled in some way.
However, we show that theseresults can be dramatically reduced to about 6% bycombining the information extracted from fivedictionaries.
It therefore appears that even if individualdictionaries are an unreliable source of semanticinformation, multiple dictionaries can play an importantrole in building large lexical-semantic databases.1.
INTRODUCTIONIn recent years, it has become increasingly clear that thelimited size of existing computational lexicons and thepoverty of the semantic information they containrepresents one of the primary bottlenecks in thedevelopment of realistic natural anguage processing(NLP) systems.
The need for extensive lexical andsemantic databases is evident in the recent initiation of anumber of projects to construct massive genericlexicons for NLP (project GENELEX in Europe orEDR in Japan).The manual coustruction of large lexical-semanticdatabases demands enormous human resources, andthere is a growing body of research into the possibilityof automatically extracting at least a part of the requiredlexical and semantic informati'on from everydaydictionaries.
Everyday dictionaries are obviously notstructured in a way that enables their immediate use inNLP systems, but several Studies have shown thatrelatively simple procedures can be used to extracttaxonomies and various other semantic relations (forexample, Amsler, 1980; Calzolari, 1984; Cbodorow,Byrd, and Heidorn, 1985; Markowitz, Ahlswede, andEvens, 1986; Byrd et al, 1987; Nakamura nd Nagao,1988; Vtronis and Ide, 1990~ Klavans, Chodorow, andWacholder, 1990; Wilks et al, 1990).However, it remains to be seen whether informationautomatically extracted from dictionaries i sufficientlycomplete and coherent o be actually usable in NLPsystems.
Although there is concern over the quality ofautomatically extracted lexical information, very fewempirical studies have attempted to assess itsystematically, and those that have done so have beenrestricted to consideration f the quality of grammaticalinformation (e.g., Akkerman, Masereeuw, and Meijs,1985).
No evaluation of automatically extractedsemantic information has been published.The authors would like to thank Lisa Lassck and Anne Gilmanfor their contribution tothis work.In this paper, we report the results of a quantitativeevaluation of automatically extracted sernanuc data.
Ourresults how that for any one dictionary, 55-70% of theextracted information is garbled in some way.
Theseresults at first call into doubt the validity of automaticextraction from dictionaries.
However, in section 4 weshow that these results can be dramatically reduced toabout 6% by several means--most ignificantly, bycombining the  information extracted from fivedictionaries.
It therefore appears that even if individualdictionaries are an unreliable source of semanticinformation, multiple dictionaries can play an importantrole in building large lexical-semantic databases.2.
METHODOLOGYOur strategy involves automatically extractinghypernyms from five English dictionaries for a limitedcorpus.
To determine where problems exist, theresulting hierarchies for each dictionary are compared toan "ideal" hierarchy constructed by hand.
The fivedictionaries compared were: the Collins EnglishDictionary (CED), the Oxford Advanced Learner'sDictionary (OALD), the COBUILD Dictionary, theLongman's Dictionary of Contemporary English(LDOCE) and the Webster's 9th Dictionary (W9).We begin with the most straightforward case in order todetermine an upper bound for the results.
We deal withwords within a domain which poses few modellingproblems, and we focus on hyperonymy, which isprobably the least arguable semantic relation and hasbeen shown to be the easiest to extract.
If the results arepoor under such favorable constraints, we can foreseethat they will be poorer for more complex (abstract)domains and less clearly cut relations.An ideal hicrarchy probably does not exist for the entiredictionary; however, a fair degree of consensus seemspossible for carefully chosen terms within a veryrestricted domain.
We have therefore selected a corpusof one hundred kitchen utensil terms, each representinga concrete, individual object--for example, cup, fork,saucepan, decanter, etc.
All of the terms are countnouns.
Mass nouns, which can cause problems, havebeen excluded (for example, the mass noun cutlery isnot a hypernym of knife).
Other idiosyncratic cases,such as chopsticks (where it is not clear if the utensil isone object o r  a pair of objects) have also beeneliminated from the corpus.
This makes it easy to applysimple tests for hyperonymy, which, for instance,enable us to say that Y is a hypcmym of X if "this is anX" entails but is not entailed by "this is a Y" (Lyons,1963).Chodorow, Byrd, and Heidorn (1985) proposed aheuristic for extracting hypernyms which exploits thefact that definitions for nouns typically give a hypemym- 227 -term as the head of the defining noun phrase.
Considerthe following examples:dipper a ladle used for dipping... ICEDiladle a long-handled spoon... ICED\]spoon a metal, wooden, or plastic utensil... ICED\]In very general terms, the heuristic consists ofextracting the word which precedes the firstpreposition, relative pronoun, or participle ncounteredin the definition text.
When this word Is "empty" (e.g.one, any, kind, class) the true hyperuym is the head ofthe noun phrase following the preposition of'.slice any of various utensils... \[CEDIAutomatically extracted hierarchies are necessarilytangled (Amsler, 1980) because many words arepolysemous.
For example, in the CED, the word panhas the following senses (among others):pan !
l.a a wide metal vessel... ICEDIpan 2 1 the leaf of the betel tree.., iCED\]The CED also gives pan as the hypemym for saucepan,which taken together yields the hierarchy in figure l.a.The tangled hierarchy is problematic because, followingthe path upwards from saucepan, we find that saucepancan be a kind of leaf.
This is clearly erroneous.
Ahierarchy utilizing senses rather than words would notbe tangled, as shown in figure 1.b.In our study, the hierarchy waS disambiguated byhand.Sense disambiguation i dictionary definitions is adifficult problem, and we will not address it here; thisproblem is the focus of much current research and isconsidered in depth elsewhere (e.g., Byrd et al, 1987;Byrd, 1989; Vtronis and Ide, 1990; Klavans,Chodorow, and Wacholder, 1990; Wilks et al, 1990).vessel leaf vessel I leaf lI Isaucepan saucepan Ia) v,,ord hitrarchy b) sense hierarchyFigure I : Sense-tangled" hierarchy3.
EVALUATIONHierarchies constructed with methods uch as thoseoutlined in section 2 show, upon close inspection,several serious problems.
In this section, we describethc most pervasive problems and give their frequency inour five dictionaries.
The problems fall into two generaltypes: those which arise because information in thedictionary is incomplete, and those which are the resultof a lack of distinction among terms and the lack of aone-to-one mapping between terms and concepts,especially at the highest levels of the hierarchy.3.1.
Incomplete informationThe information in dictionaries i  incomplete for twomain reasons.
First, since a dictionary is typically theproduct of several lexicographers' efforts and isconstructed, revised, and updated over many years,there exist inconsistencies in the criteria by which thehypernyms given in definition texts are chosen.
Inaddition, space and readability restrictions, on the onehand, and syntactic restrictions on phrasing, on theother, may dictate that certain information isunspecifiedin definition texts or left to be implied by other parts ofthe definition.3.1.1.
Attachment oo high : 21-34%The most pervasive problem in automatically extractedhierarchies i the attachment of terms too high in thehierarchy.
It occurs in 21-349'0 of the definitions in oursample from the five dictionaries (figure 8).
Forexample, while pan and bottle are vessels in the CED,cup and bowl are simply containers, the hypemym ofvessel.
Obviously, "this is a cup" and "this is a bowl"both entail (and are not entailed by) "this is a vessel".Further, other dictionaries give vessel as the hypemymfor cup and bowl.
Therefore, the attachment of cup andbowl to the higher-level term container seems to be aninconsistency within the CED.The problem of attachment too high in the hierarchyoccurs relatively randomly within a given dictionary.
Indictionaries with a controlled definition vocabulary(such as the LDOCE), the problem of attachment ahigh levels of thehierarchy results also from a lack ofterms from which to choose.
For example, ladle anddipper are both attached to spoon in the LDOCE,although "this is a dipper" entails and is not entailed by"this is a ladle".
There is no way that dipper could bedefined as a ladle (as, for instance, in the CED), sinceladle is not in the defining vocabulary.
As a result,hierarchies extracted from the LDOCE are consistentlyflat (figure 7).3.1.2.
Absent hypernyms : 0-3%In some cases, strategies likc that of Chodorow, Byrdand Hcidorn yield incorrect hypernyms, as in thefollowing definitions:g r ill A grill is a part of a cooker... \[COBUILD\]corkscrew a pointed spiral piece of metal... \[W9Id inner  service a ecm~plete s t of plates and dishes... \[LDOCE,not included in our  corpus\]The words part, piece, set, are clearly not hypernymsof the defined concepts: it is virtually meaningless tosay that grill is a kind of part, or that corkscrew is akind of piece.
In these cases, the head of the nounphrase serves to mark another elation: part-whole,member-class, etc.
It is easy to reject hese and similarwords (member, :series, etc.)
as hypemyms, ince theyform a closed list (Kiavans, Chodorow, andWacholder, 1990).
However, excluding these wordsleaves us with no hypernym.
We call these "absenthypernyms"; they occur in 0-3% of the definitions inour sample corpus (figure 8).The absence of a hypernym in a given definition textdoes not necessarily imply that no hypernym exists.For example, "this is a corkscrew" clearly entails (andis not entailed by) "this is a device" (the hypemymgiven by the COBUILD and the CED).
In many eases,the lack of a hypernym seems to be the result ofconcern over space and/or eadability.
We can imagine,for example, that the definition for corkscrew could bemore fully specified as "a device consisting of a pointedspiral piece of metal..." In such cases, lexicographersrely on the reader's ability to deduce that somethingmade of metal, with a handle, used for pulling corks,can be called a device.
However, for some terms, suchas cutlery or dinner service, it is not clear that ahypernym exists.
Note that we have voluntarilyexcluded problematic terms of this kind from ourcorpus, in order to restrict our evaluation to the bestCase.3.1.3.
Missing overlaps : 8-14%Another problem results from the necessary choices thatlexicographers must make in an attempt to specify a- 228 -single superordinate, when concepts in the real worldoverlap freely.
For instance, asaucepan can be said tobe a pot as well as a pan.
"This is a saucepan" entailsboth "this is a pot" (the hypernym given by the CEDand W9) as well as "this is a pan" (the hypernym givenby the LDOCE, OALD, and COBUILD).
On the otherhand, "this is a pot" does not entail and is not entailedby "this is a pan", which is to say thatpot andpan arenot synonyms, nor is one the hypernym of the other.
Interms of classes, pan and pot are distinct butoverlapping, and saucepan is a subset of theirintersection (figure 2.a).
This is no longer a stricthierarchy since it includes merging branches (figure2.b).
We will call it an "overlapping hierarchy".Although a tree representation f such a hierarchy isimpossible, it presents no problems on either logical orcomputational grounds.b) saucepanFigure 2.
Overlapping hierarchyAssuming the above relations, it would be morelogically correct o phrase the definition of saucepan as"a pan AND a pot...".
However, lexicographers neveruse "and" in this way, but usually give only one of thealternatives.
For example, each of the five dictionariesin our study chooses eitherpot orpan as the genus termfor saucepan.
When this occurs, one of the hypemymsis missing.
This problem arises in our sample corpusrelatively frequently, 8-14% of the time depending onthe dictionary (figure 8).3.2.
Difficulties at higher levelsAt the higher levels of the hierarchy, terms necessarilybecome more general, and they often become lessclearly defined.
For example, most people wilt agree onwhether some object falls imo the category fork orspoon, but there is much less agreement on whatobjects are implements or utensils.
In addition, at thehigher levels some concepts imply lack a term todesignate them exactly.
As a result~ there is confusionat the higher levels of hierarchies implicit in dictionarydefinitions.3.2.1.
OR-conjoined heads : 7-10%For 7-10% of the terms in our corpus, definitions givea list of head nouns separated by the conjunction or, asin the following:utensil  an implement, ool or container... \[CEDIIn this case, none of the three alternatives is ahypemym of utensil.
First, it is clearly not true that"this is a utensil" entails "this is a container".
For theother two, it is not clear whether or not "this is autensil" entails "this is a tool" and "this is animplement", and it is even less clear that the reverseentailments do not apply.
Regarding the three terms ashypernyms of utensil would produce the hierarchy infigure 3.
However, by enumerating the paths upwardsfrom spatula (defined as a utensil), we see that spatulais a kind of container, which is obviously incorrect.This solution amounts to regarding the class of utensilsas the intersection of the classes of implements, tools,and containers.
Regarding the conjunction or asdenoting the union of these classes would be morecorrect on logical grounds, since if X is included in Aor X is included in B, then X is included in A u B.This relation cannot be fitted into a tree, but it can bepictured as in figure 4.
However, this does not help todetermine whether spatula is an implement, ool, orcontainer, or some subset of the three.
In any case,lexicographers do not use or with a consistent,mathematical meaning.
Or-conjoined heads appear notto be usable in constructing hierarchical trees withoutconsiderable manipulation and addition of information.implement tool containerW~ONG/spatulaFigure 3 : problematic hierarchyFigure 4.
OR as class union3.2.2.
Circularity : 7-11%It is well known that circularity exists in dictionarydefinitions, especially when concepts are high up in thehierarchy.
For instance, consider the definitions below:tool an implement, such as a hammer... ICED\]Implement a piece of equipment; ool or utensil.
ICED\]ute nsl I ar~ implement, ool or container... \[CED\]Circular definitions yield hierarchies containing loops(figure 5.a).
Unlike merging branches, loops have nointerpretation i  terms of classes.
A loop asserts boththat A is a sub-class of B and B is a sub-class of A,which yields A := B.
This is why Amsler (1980)suggests merging circularly-defined concepts andregarding them as synonyms (figure 5.b).containerImplement ~ ~ u t !
/ n u n n u ~  tool containera) spatula b) spatulaFigure 5.
Taxonomy with loopsHowever, in most cases this solution leads to erroneousresults; it is clear, for example, that many implements,tools, and utensils (e.g., spatula) are not containers.This problem is similar to the one cited above in section3.2.1.
If dictionary definitions are to be interpreted interms of set theoretical relations, a more complexmathematical treatment is required.
The definitionsabove can be represented by the following relations:tool ~ implementImplement c (equipment u tool u utensil)utensil  c (Implement u tool u container)which, once solved, do not equate tool, implement,and utensil, but instead efine the overlapping classesin figure 6.
This representation is clearly more soundon logical grounds.
It still does not indicate exactly- 229 -whcrc spatula should appear (since wc have noindication that it is not a conlainer), but at least it showsthat there may be some utensils which arc notcontainers.Although this representation is more intuitively accuratethan the representation in figure 5.b, ultimately it goes?
too far in delineating the relations among terms.
Inactual use, the distinctions among terms are much lessclear-cut than figure 6 implies, For instance, the figureindicates that ll tools that are containers are alsoimplements, but it is certainly not clear that humanswould agree to this or use the terms in a mannerconsistent with this specification.
Dictionariesthemselves do not agree, and when taken formally theyyield very different diagrams for higher level concepts.object container "gl!ss b o w ~ e ~ lplate tureen pressure, coffee- bottle pancooker potfrying-pan saucepancontainerF igure 6.
Solving " loops"Figure 8 shows that 7-11% of the definitions use ahypcmym that is itself defined circularly.utensil instrument implementspatula spoon knife forkIladledippe?glass bowl cup dish kettle pot coffee- teapot bottle panpre~sure-cooker r, aucepan frying-pan dipperFigure 7.
Hierarchies for the CED and LDOCEplate tureen%tool Made instrumentAI  Ispatula spoon knife forkCOB UILD3.3.
SummaryAltogether, the problems described in the sectionsabove yield a 55-70% error rate in automaticallyextracted hierarchies.
Given that we have attempted toconsider the most favorable case, it appears that anysingle dictionary, taken in isolation, is a poor source ofautomatically extracted semanlic information.
This ismade more cvidcm in figure 7, which demonstrates themarked differences in hierarchies extracted from theCED and LDOCE for a small subset of our corpus.
Asummary of our results appears in figure 8.COLliNS I.DOCE OALD W9 COMBINEDFigure 8.
(~uantitative valuation4.
REF IN INGWe have concluded that hierarchies extracted usingstrategies uch as that of Chodorow, Byrd, andHeidom are seriously flawed, and are therefore likely tobe unusable in NLP systems.
However, in this sectionwe discuss various means to refine automaticallyextracted hierarchies, most of which can be pcrformcdautomatically.230 -WORD COIIUILD COLLINS LDocE  'OALD W9ladle spoon spoon spoonh a s i n container container containerewer jug jug OR pitcher containersaucepan pot pan potgr i l l  (absent) devioe (absent)fork tool .
implement instrumentFigure 9.
Mer4.1.
Merg ing  d ic t ionar iesIt is possible to use information provided in thedifferentiae of definition texts to refine hierarchies; forexample, in the definitionvessel any object USI.
:D AS a container... ICED\]the automatically extracted hypernym is object.However, some additional processing of the definitiontext enables the extraction of container following thephrase "used as".
It is also possible to use otherdefinitions.
For example, the CED does not specify thatknife and spoon are implements, but this information isprovided in the definition of cutlery:cutlery implements used for eating SUCII AS knives,forks, and spoons.
ICED\]The extraction of information from differentiaedemands some extra parsing, which may be difficult forcomplex definitions.
Also, further esearch is requiredto determine which phrases function as markers forwhich kind of information, and to determine howconsistent their use is.
More importantly, suchinformation is sporadic, and its extraction may requiremore effort than the results warrant.
We therefore seekmore "brute force" methods to improve automaticallyex tracted hierarchies.One of the most promising strategies for refiningextracted information is the Use of information fromseveral dictionaries.
Hierarchies derived fromindividual dictionaries suffer from incompleteness, butit is extremely unlikely that the same information isconsistently missing from all dictionaries.
For instance,the CED attaches cup to container, which is too high inthe hierarchy, while the W9 attaches it lower, to vessel.It is therefore possible to use taxonomic informationfrom several dictionaries to fill in absent hypemyms,missing links, and to rectify cases of too highattachment.To investigate this possibility, we merged theinformation extracted from the five English dictionariesin our database.
The individual data for the fivedictionaries was organized in a table, as in figure 9.Merging these hierarchies into a single hierarchy wasaccomplished automatically by applying a simplealgorithm, which scans the table line-by-line, asfollows:1) regard cells containing multiple heads conjoinedby or as null, since, as we saw in section 3.2.1, theydo not reliably provide a hypemym.2) if all the cells agree (as for ladle), keep that term asthe hypernym.
Otherwise:a) if a term is a hypernym of another term in thel ine, ignore it.b) take the remaining cell or cells as thehypernym(s).This algorithm must be applied recursively, since, forexample, it may not yet be known when evaluatingbct~in that container is a hypernym of vessel, and vesselis a hypemym of bowl, until those terms are themselves?
Combinedspoon spoon spoonbowl vessel bowlpitcher pitcher OR jug ; pitcherpot ,, pan pot AND pandevice utensil device AND utensilimplement implement tool, implement AND instrumenting hierarchiesprocessed.
Therefore, several passes through the tab!eare required.
Note that if after applying the algorithmseveral terms are left as hypernyms for a given word,we effectively create an overlap in the hierarchy.
Forexample, saucepen isattached to both pot and pan, andfork is attached to tool, implement, and instrument.We evaluate the quality of the resulting combinedhierarchy using the same strategy applied in section 3.It is interesting to note that in the merged hierarchy, allthe absent hypernym problems (including absence dueto or-heads) have been eliminated, since in every case atleast one of the five dictionaries gives a validhypemym.
In addition, almost all of the attachments toohigh in the hierarchy and missing overlaps havedisappeared, although afew cases remain (5% and 1%,respectively).
None of the dictionaries, for instance,gives pot as the hypemym of teapot, although three ofthe five dictionaries give pot as the hypernym ofcoffeepot.
A larger dictionary database would enablethe elimination of many of these remainingimperfections (for example, New Penguin EnglishDictionary, not included in our database, gives pot as ahypemym of teapot).Merging dictionaries on a large scale assumes that it ispossible to automatically map senses across them.
Forour small sample, we mapped senses amongdictionaries by hand.
We describe elsewhere apromising method to automatically accomplish sensemapping, using a spreading activation algorithm (ldeand Vtronis, 1990).4.2.
Cover t  ca tegor iesThere remain a number of circularly-defined hypemymsin the combined taxonomy, which demand additionalconsideration n theoretical grounds.
Circularly-def'medterms tend to appear when lexicographers lack terms todesignate certain concepts.
The fact that "it is notimpossible for what is intuitively recognized as aconceptual category to be without a label" has alreadybeen noted (Cruse, 1986, p. 147).
The lack of aspecific term for a recognizable concept ends to occurmore frequently at the higher levels of the hierarchy(and at the very lowest and most specific levels aswell--e.g., there is no term to designate forks with twoprongs).
This is probably because any languageincludes the most terms at the generic level (Brown,1958), that is, the level of everyday, ordinary terms forobjects and living things (dog, pencil, house, etc.
).Circularity, as well as the use of or-conjoined terms atthe high levels of the hierarchy, results largely from thelexicographers' efforts to approximate the terms theylack.
For example, there is no clear term to denote thatcategory of objects which fall under any of the termsutensil, tool, implement, instrument, although thisconcept seems to exist.
Clearly, these terms are notstrictly synonymous--there ar , for example, utensilsthat one would not call tools (e.g., a colander).
If aterm, let us say X, for the concept existed, then thedefinitions for utensil, tool, implement, and instrument- 231  -could simply read "an X that...".
Since this is not thecase, lexicographers define each term with a listincluding the others, which enables the delineation of aconcept which encompasses allof them.One way to resolve difficultieslat the higher levels ofextracted hierarchies i to introduce "covert categories",that is, concepts which do not correspond to anyparticular word.
We therefore do not merge circularterms into a single concept, but instead create acommon "covert" hypcrnym for all of them.
In thisway, tool, utensil, implement; and instrument eachappear in the hierarchy as kinds: of INSTRUMENTAL-OBJECT (covert categories names are capitalized).We need a means to determine when and where covertcategories are necessary.
Circularities in dictionarydefinitions clearly indicate the presence of covertcategories.
However, we obviously cannot use a singledictionary to determine them, because the loopscontained in one dictionary rarely include all of theterms that may bc involved in the "constellation"representing a given covert category.
For instance, theCED contains the loop tool-implement-utensil, whilethe COBUILD contains a loop for tool-instrument; thisprovides trong evidence that all four terms should beinvolved in a constellation.
Supporting information canbe derived by looking at the hyponyms for each of thecandidate terms in different dictionaries.
The wordfork, for example, is defined as tool (COBUILD),implement (CED, OALD, W9), and instrument(LDOCE), while spoon is defined as object(COBUILD), utensil (CED, OALD), tool (LDOCE)and implement (W9),which adds further support o theidea that tool, utensil, instrument, and implementbelong to tile same constellation.Even if it is relatively easy to automatically detectcircularities, the final determination of which covertcategories to create and the terms that are involved inthem must be done manually.
However, this task is notas daunting as it may first appear, since it involves onlythe higher levels of the hierarchy, and likely involves arelatively small number of covert categories.4.3.
SummaryBy merging five dictionar!es, all but 6% of theproblems found in individual dictionaries wereeliminated (figure 8).
This result is made clear in figure10, which includes the same small subset of the samplecorpus as in rite individual hierarchies given in figure 7.Although there remain a few imperfections, thecombined hierarchy is much more accurate andcomplete, and therefore more useful, than the hierarchyderived from any one of the d~tionaries alone.5.
CONCLUSIONThe results of our study show that dictionaries can be areliable source o f  automatically extracted semanticinformation.
Merging information from severaldictionaries improved the quality of extractedinformation to an acceptable level.
However, theseresults were obtained for a selected corpus representinga best case situation.
It is likely that different resultswill be obtained for larger, less restricted cases.
Ourresults suggest hat this is an encouraging line ofresearch to pursuefor refining automatically extractedinformation.REFERENCESAKKERMAN, E., MASEREEUW, P. C., MEIJS.
W. J.
(1985).Designing a computerized lexicon for linguistic purposes.ASCOT Report No.
1, Rodopi, Amsterdam.AMSLER, R. A.
(1980).
The structure of the Merriam.WebsterPocket Dictionary~ Ph.D.
Diss., U. Texas at Austin.BROWN, R. W. 0958) llow shall a thing be called?Psychological Review, 65, 14-21.BYRD, R. J.
(1989) Discovering relationships among wordsenses.
Prec.
5th Conf.
OW Centre for the New OED, Oxford.67-79.BYRD, R. J., CALZOLAR1, N., CIIODOROW, M. S., KLAVANS,J.
L., NEFF, M. S.. RIZK, O.
(1987) Tools and methods forComputational linguistics.
Computational Linguistics, 13.3/4, 219-240.CALZOLARI, N.(1984).
Detecting patterns in a lexical data base.COLING'84, 170=173.CIIODOROW, M. S., BYRD.
R. J., IIEIDORN.
G. E. (1985).Extracting semantic hierarchies from a large on-line dictionary.Prec.
23rd Annual Conf.
of the ACL, Chicago, 299-304.CRUSE, D. A.
(1986).
Lexical semantics, Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge.IDE, N.. M., VI~RONIS, J.
(1990).
Mapping Dictionaries: ASpreading Activation Approach, Prec.
6th Conf.
UW Centrefor the blew OED, Waterloo, 52-64.KLAVANS, J., CIIODOROW, M., WACIIOLDER, N 0990).
Fromdictionary to knowledge base via taxonomy.
Prec.
6th Conf..UW Centre for the New OED, Watedoo, t I0-132.LYONS, J.
(i 963) Structural semantics.
Blackwell, Oxford.MARKOWITZ, J., AIILSWEDE, T., EVENS, M. (1986).Semantically significant patterns in dictionary definitions.Prec.
24rd Annual Conf.
of the ACL, New York, !
12-119.NAKAMURA, J., NAGAO, M. (1988).
Extraction of semantic'information from an ordinary English dictionary and its:evaluation.
COLING'88, 459-464.VI~RONIS, J., IDE, N., M. (1990).
Word Sense Disambiguationwith Very Large Neural Networks Extracted from MachineReadable Dictionaries, COLING~90, llelsinki.WILKS, Y., D. FASS, C. GUO, J. MACDONALD, T. PLATE, B.SLATOR (1990).
Providing Machine Tractable DictionaryTools.
Machine Translation,5, 99-154.containerI vesselglass bottle kettle teapot pot dishc o f f e e p ~ ~  p la te /~saucepan frying- cup tureenpressure-cookerFigure 10.
FiveIladleIdipperdictionaires combined- 232 -
