L IMITS  OF  A SENTENCE BASED PROCEDURAL APPROACH FORASPECT CHOICE IN GERMAN-RUSSIAN MTBianka BUSCHBECK, Renat?
HENSCHEL, Iris H6SER, Gerda KLIMONOW, Andreas K(ISTNER, Ingrid STARKEZentralinstitut ffir Sprachwissenscha~, BerlinPrenzlauer Promenade 149-152O-1100 BerlinABSTRACTIn this paper we discuss some problems arising inGerman-Russian Machine Translation with regard to tenseand aspect.
Since the formal category of aspect is missingin German the information required for generating Rus-sian aspect forms has to be extracted from differentrepresentation levels.
A sentence based procedure foraspect choice in the MT system VIRTEX is presentedwhich takes lexieal, morphological nd semantic riteriainto account.
The limits of this approach are shown.
Toovercome these difficulties a human interaction compo-nent is proposed.INTRODUCTIONAspect is considered to bca  grammatico-semanticaicategory for expressing various temporal references inrelation to the speech act moment.
Regardless of the greatnumber of special meanings that can be expressed by theperfective or imperfectiv?
aspect (p.asp./i.asp.
), there aretwo oppositions representing the systematic or basicaspectual meanings, namely +TOTALITY/+LIM/TEDNESSVerSus -TOTAL1TY/-LIMITEDNESS (see Bondarko 1990).In this paper we will discuss the transfer of tense andaspect, a problem which arises immediately in MachineTranslation and differS from language pair to languagepair.
This mainly depends on how aspect is expressed inthe particular languages concerned.It is obvious that aspect in several anguages has arather heterogeneous formal reflection in the verb system.Aspect and tense are closely connected with each other.In English, e.g., the two aspect constructions perfectiveand progressive can be seen as realizing the basic contrastof the action viewed as complete or as incomplete (fordetails see van Eynde 1988).All Slavic languages on the other hand have a well-formed aspect system where verbs have a perfective andan imperfectivc aspect derived from the verbal stem byaffixation.
The translation of verbal groups from Englishinto Russian, for example, seems to be possible by for-mulating rules which assign concrete Russian aspectforms to several combinations of tense and aspect inEnglish, e.g.has been giving (present perfect continuous)->  zr~Ba/r (past, imperfective aspect)has given (present perfect)- -> ~ra~ (past, perfective aspect)(ef.
Apresjan 1989: 154).In contrast to the languages mentioned above, aspectmeaning in German, which doubtlessly exists, has noexplicit formal expression.
Therefore, aspect informationrequired for translation i to Russian has to be extractedfrom different levels of text representation.
This isnecessary since without the correct choice of Russianaspect serious translation errors in the target languagecould occur.
In our German-Russian MT project VIRTEXwe have approached this problem by constructing ahierarchic procedure for aspect choice (presented in thenext paragraphy which takes a complex of contextual,morphological nd semantical criteria into account.
If theaspect choice algorithm fails to select one of the twoaspect forms, wider context (beyond the bound-aries ofsentence) or background knowledge must be taken intoconsideration.
To meet his difficulty VIRTEX is providedwith a system of inquiries.
If necessary, humaninteraction is entered to make a final decision (in thesense of Personal MT, see Boitet 1990).
A more perfectsolution can only be reached by a more sophisticated textand knowledge representation including aspectualcharacteristics.- 269 -A SET OF FORMAL CRITERIAUSED BY VIRTEXFOR DETERMINING ASPECT AND TENSEThe MT system VIRTEX is made to translate simpleGerman main clauses into Russian including the decisionof appropriate aspect forms for simple and complexverbal groups.
We distinguish five different ypes ofcriteria all of them operating on the level of a syntacticsurface structure nriched by semantic features:1.
Lexkai InformationGerman verbs which in every context denotenon-resultative activities are always translated by aRussian verb in imperfective aspect form, e.g.
arbeiten'to work' - > pa6OTaTT~.A contrasting class of verbs (siegen 'to win', er-reichen 'to achieve') which represents achievements (seeVendler 1967) can be translated in an analogous way intoperfectiv?
aspect forms unless the context suggestsiterativity.2.
Valency FramesSome verbs allow different readings concerning theirsemantics.
These may be distinguished by the occurrenceof certain verbal complements:(a) Er schrieb an einem Brief.
'He was writing a letter.
'->  Ou Iruca:I nHCbMO.
(i.asp.
)(b) Er schrieb einen Brief.
'He was writing/wrote/has written a letter.
'->  Ou rr~tca~/uan~ca~ nuc~uo.
(both aspect forms are possible)Furthermore, there are German verbs which includeseveral semcmes differing with regard to their termina-tive/aterminative usage (cf.
Mehlig 1988).
Such a verb is,e.
g., the verb sprechen 'to speak'.
For translating theterminative r ading of the verb - sprechen mit jmdm.
'totalk with sb.'
- in Russian both aspect forms can beused: roBopHT~/IrOroBopHT~ c xeu .
Theaterminativereading of sprechen does not occur in connection withthe preposition mit 'with'.
In Russian the imperfectiveaspect must be chosen:Er sprach (vor Studenten) aber Werkstoffe.
'He spoke (to the students) about materials.
'->  Ou ro~opn~ (*noro~opu~) (~epe~, CTyAeHTaMH) 0 UaTepua2rax.Such temporal distinctions of verb readings make it tosome extent possible to choose the appropriate aspectform already with the help of the dictionary only.3.
Adverbial SemanticsVarious types of adverbials may help to arrive at adecision.
In cooecurrence with durative, iterative orintensity adverbials (e.g.
den ganzen Tag lang 'all daylong', h~ufig 'frequently', mehr und mehr 'more andmore'), the imperfective aspect is chosen.
If there areadverbials of punctual meaning (pl~tzlich 'suddenly',date, time) or of future events (demndchat 'soon') and noadverbial of the former class, the pcrfective aspect ispreferred.
Within the aspect choice algorithm (see fig.
1)these two classes of adverbs were named ADV-I andADV-P.4.
TenseIf none of the aforesaid criteria applies ome Germantenses determine the aspect choice:Past perfect is translated to perfective aspect form,in the case of the present tense (pracsens futuri ex-cluded) the imperfective aspect is preferred.Future perfect is translated into future using theperfective aspect if there is no indicator of subjunc-tive meaning which is expressed in Russian by thepreterite form an and insertion of BepoflTnO'probably'(see the symbol PRT+VEROJ^TNO in fig.l).5.
Aktionsart Type and Additional ConditionsIn the case of the remaining tense forms (not listedin 4.
), choice of aspect depends on the verbal semantics.There are distinctions between durative verbs (warren 'towait', diskutieren 'to discuss'), verbs with a resultativemeaning (ertu)hen 'to raise', definieren "to define') orverbs such as aufz/lhlen 'to enumerate', produzieren 'toproduce', which are characterized by such properties aslimitedness, repeafibility, general faetitive meaning,named IIM+ITER in f ig .
I .
In these cases the existence ofa direct object, its number and definiteness (N4 PLUR,N4 BET in fig.
1) must be taken into consideration.For details see figure 1 showing the aspect choicealgorithm for active voice sentences implemented inVIRTEX.
Some of the strict decisions in this algorithm arepreferential ones as will be discussed in the nextparagraph.
In the case of the passive voice or of modalconstructions, different sequences of conditions are- 270  -I lexical criteria 9r lexeme-specific valency frame conditionsASP BY  LEX ICON- -  I o r  Padverbial semanticsADV--I  - -  IIIMPERATIVE  - -IADV--P - -  PN E G -  IIPtense criteriaPAST PERF  - -  PIPRES Itense, semantic subclassification and additional conditionsFUT PERF  - -  ADV ANTEIP, D U R A T I V E  - -  I, PRT+VEROJATNOIP, PRT+VEROJATNOFUTURE DURATIVE  - -  L IM+ITER N4 DET - -  PI I IP I IDURATIVEIPL IM+ITER- -  N4  PLUR N4 DET - -  PI IP IRESULT OBJECTS - -  P' I I / PPERFECT - -  PIISymbols: .
.
.
yesI noIPchoice of the imperfect aspectchoice of the perfective aspectFigure 1.
The VIRTEX aspect choice algorithm for active voice- 271  -checked in combination with the operations of passive toactive transformation (if necessary) or structural transferfor certain modal constructions.THE ROLE OF CONTEXTWhen translating isolated sentences into Russian theabsence of information about how to interpret the verbalmeaning from an aspectual point of view causes majorproblems.
Often the sentence is too short to fred indica-tors allowing for a decision between several possibleinterpretations (of.
Somers 1990) which would lead todifferent results of aspect choice.
In such cases it isobvious that by using formal criteria an unambiguoussolution is not possible.
In other words: the rigid aspectchoice algorithm implemented in VmTEX at first com-pelled us to make preferential decisions although we havebeen aware of the fact that sometimes anotherinterpretation f the sentence to be translated would notbe captured.In the following we shall show with five examples howcertain contexts help us to clarify the intended interpreta-tion of the given sentence in order to choose the properaspect form.
Here the term 'context' refers to what isexpressed in the text surrounding the sentence to betranslated or to the user's background knowledge aboutthe text.
As long as this kind of knowledge is not accessi-ble, it shall be introduced by means of a dialogue compo-nent.Current Process I Result(1) Der Student schrieb einen Brief.
(la) CTyZOHT ~anlcca:~ nHCbUO.
(p.asp:)'The student wrote/has written a letter.
'(lb) CTy,?eUT nHcaJI rrHcbuo.
(i.asp.
)'The student was writing a letter.
'In the first version of VmTEX designed without a userdialogue we preferred the interpretation by:which thedenoted action is assumed to be completed and conse-quently the perfective aspect is chosen (see: (la)).
Forverifying this reading a suitable context criterion couldbe, e. g., whether another action follows (sequence ofpredicates): "Der Student schrieb einen Brief.
Danachbrachte er ihn zur Post."
'The student wrote a letter.After that he took it to the post office.
'Variant (lb) is a good translation if the sentence can berelated to a parallel situation or to an action going onsimultaneously: "F.s war sp~t am Abend.
Der Studentschrieb einen Brief."
'It was late in the evening.
Thestudent was writing a letter.
'To solve this ambiguity by dialogue the user should beasked whether acontinuous process or a completed actionis meant.
This may be done by inserting an adverb intothe sentence and asking the user whether the meaningremains unchanged.
The following question should beasked: "Ist der Satz so gemeint: 'Der Student schriebgerade einen Brief?
O/n)" 'Does the sentence mean:The student was iust writing a letter ?
(y/n)'.
If the usersays no, reading (lb) is excluded.Praesens Futuri / tlabitual ActionDepending on context, German present ense can beused to express future events.
That holds for every kindof verb.
Indicators like adverbs help in recognizing thefuture meaning ("Er kommt morgen. "
'He will cometomorrow').
Even if the sentence lacks such adverbs, afuture interpretation may be possible but we neglect thisfact for the time being.
Only if the German sentencecontains an achievement verb (the achievement verbsform a subclass of the non-durative ones), the futureinterpretation seems to have a higher probability becausethis class of verbs cannot be used to denote a currentlyongoing action:(2) Er ~st die Aufgaben rechtzeitig.
(2a) OH pollIHT 3a~a ~rH so-Bpez4~.
(p.
asp.
)'He will solve the tasks in time.
'(2b) Os peruser  aa~a tnf BO-BpeU~.
(i.asp.
)'He solves the tasks in time.
'An indicator for the praesens futuri interpretationleading to the translation (2a) would be a context like"Morgen mu~ der Student die Arbeit abgeben.
Ich binsicher: Er ll~st die Aufgaben rechtzeitig. "
'Tomorrow thestudent has to submit he paper.
I am sure: he will solvethe tasks in time.'
In this case the perfective aspect isnecessary.
But it is also possible to assign the sentence aniterativeJhabitual interpretation leading to sentence (2b).Then we have in mind rather a certain property than aconcrete action of the person specified in the subjectposition.
A context suggesting this reading could be acharacterization of the student.- 272 -To test whether this reading is meant the user is invitedto compare the original sentence with "Er l~st dieAufgaben in der Re~el rechtzeitig."
'As a rule he solvesthe tasks in time.'
If the insertion is possible withoutchanging the sentence meaning, the imperfective aspectof the verb will be chosen, otherwise we assume that thefuture interpretation holds, which is expressed by theper fective aspect.Type / TokenAnother class of verbs (such as herstellen 'to produce',exportieren 'to export', verkaufen 'to sell') causes atypeof ambiguity as shown in (3):(3) Der Trabant wurde in der DDR verkaujg.
(3a) Tpa6a;zT 5~ur rrpozraH B FzTP.
(p.asp.
)'The Trabant car was sold in the GDR.
'(3b) Tpa6al4T rtpo~aBayIc~ B Fz~P.
(i.asp.
)'The Trabant car was sold in the GDR.
'In a context like "Au{3erhalb des Landes stieB derTrabant aufAbsatzschwierigkeiten."
'Abroad the Trabantcar met with sales resistance.'
sentence (3) describes afrequentative process.
In another context asingle vent ofverkaufen 'to sell' could be meant: "Die Polizei befaBtsich noch immer mit dera Unfallauto.
Es ist jetzt sicher:Der Trabant wurde in der DDR verkaufl. "
'The police isstill investigating the car damaged in the accident.
Nowit is clear: the Trabant car was sold in the GDR.
'You may observe in our example that the aspectualambiguity is interrelated with an ambiguity of thesemantic object: whereas in the first reading i t refers toa set of objects, Trabant is type, ill the second readingit denotes one concrete individual - Trabant is token.
Thedistinction between type and token requires deepersemantic analysis which is impossible without contextualknowledge.In order to avoid the terms 'type' and 'token' withinthe dialogue, two sentences are offered to the user.
Hemust decide which of them is more suitable to be used asa paraphrase of the original sentence.
With our example,he must select between "Dieses Ob/ekt wurde in der DDRverkaufl" 'This object was sold in the GDR' and "Di__geObjekte wurden in der DDR verkaufl" 'The objects weresold in the GDR'.
If the user prefers the first paraphrase,the Russian perfcctivc aspect will be used, otherwise theirnperfcctive one.
(4) Er(4a)General Factitive Meaning I Concrete Actionhat Plane ausgearbeitet.OH pa3pa6aT~Ba:?
n:mu~.
(i.asp.
)'He has worked out plans.
'(4b) OH pazpaSoTag?
IrZaHH.
(p.asp.
)'He has worked out plans.
'The imperfective meaning (sec (4a)) is inherent in thesource sentence when it is interpreted in the followingway: a person has gained some experience in working outplans, maybe it was his professional task.
Such atranslation underlines the general faetitive meaning whichcan be emphasized by using the adverbials irgendwanneinmal, eine Zet#ang 'some time (during his life)': "Erhat irgendwann einmal / eine Zeitlang Plane ausgearbei-tel."
'Some ti..m.?
he worked out plans.'
This is thepreferred reading in the V\]RTEX aspect choice algorithm.Nevertheless, the sentence also can suggest a concrete,completed action, e. g., if the context refers to the resultof this action as in "Er hat Plane ausgearbeitet.
Sicliegen zur Ansicht aus."
'He has elaborated plans.
Theyare open to inspection.'
In this case the translation mustuse the perfcctive aspect.To test which of the two readings is the appropriateone, the system offers a sentence with the insertedadverbs as mentioned above, and the user is requested tocompare its meaning with that of the sentence to betranslated.The preference of (4a) to (4b) assumed by VIRT~would be the converse if the direct object were definite.Further types of aspectual ambiguity may occur.
Inaddition, within one aspect form it may become necessaryto resolve temporal ambiguities, e.g.
:Future Perfect / Subjunctive Meaning(5) Der Student wird die Prflfung abgelegt haben.
(5a) CTy,~eNT C~iaCT 3I?38MeH.
'The student will have passed the exam.
'(Sb) Cry~eur ,  Bepo~TuO, c~a~ 3I?3a~eu.
'The student probably passed the exam.
'Sentences (Sa) and (Sb) exemplify that future perfect inGerman does not only express future events but moreol~en expresses a presumption with regard to events, ac-tions, etc.
which took place in the past.
The latterinterpretation could be indicated by adverbs which- 273semantically contradict the future interpretation.
Theseare adverbs of anteriority denoting spans or points of timein the past such as gestern 'yesterday', eben / gerade'just' or letztes Jahr 'last year'.
In this ease the choiceof the proper aspect form depends on the semanticsubclass of the associated verb.
For non-durative verbsthe perfective aspect must be chosen, for durative verbs- the imperfective one.
On the other hand, adverbs ofposteriority underline the future tense interpretation.Without such adverbials the sentence remains ambiguous.Adverbs of simultaneity and those deietie adverbs whichcan express simultaneity as well as anteriority andposteriority do not contribute to disambiguating futureperfect sentences because they allow for both interpreta-tions.To solve the ambiguity in example (5) the inquirymight be: "Nehmen Sic an, da\[3 dos bereits erfolgt ist?
"'Do you think that it already happened?
'When formulating the inquiries of the dialogue compo-nent, we followed the principle that the questions to beanswered by the user should be made as precise andsimple as possible and should not presuppose any specialknowledge in linguistics.CONCLUSIONSThe above xamples show the necessity of taking widercontext into account if the sentences are too short tomake a weUfounded choice of aspect and tense.
As apreliminary solution the integration of inquiries into thesystem was proposed.
For practical use such inquiriesmay be very helpful because they allow us to improve thetranslation of isolated sentences and, moreover, of senten-ces taken from texts.
Nevertheless, from the linguisticpoint of view there has to be further investigation i thefield of semantics for the automatic generation of theappropriate aspect forms.In future we plan to treat aspect and tense by express-ing them in a deep semantic representation.
This forcesus to include wider context beyond sentence boundariesor extralinguistie knowledge, .g.
style and text typology,This can be done either in an interactive way as proposedin this paper or by means of knowledge based MT.REFERENCESApresjan, Juri D. et al 1989: Linguistideskoe obespe-denie sistemy ETAP 2.
Moskva.Boitet, Christian 1990: Towards Personal MT: generaldesign, dialogue structure, potential role of speech.
In:Proceedings of COLING-90, Helsinki, Vol.3:30-35.Bondarko, Aleksandr V. 1990: 0 zna~enijach vidovrusskogo glagola ('Aspect Meanings of Russian Verbs').In: Voprosy jazykoznanija, No.
4:5-24.Buschbeck, B., R. Henschel, I. Hfser, G. Klimonow,A.
Kfistner, and I. Starke 1990: VIRTEX - a German-Russian Translation Experiment.
Proceedings ofCOLING-90, Helsinki, Vol.3:321-323.Mehlig, Hans R. 1988: Verbaiaspekt undDetermination.In: Slavistisehe Beitr~ige, Mfinchen, Vol.230:245-296.Somers, Harold L. 1990: Current Research in MachineTranslation.
In: The Third International Conference onTheoretical and Methodological Issues in MachineTranslation of Natural Language, 11-13 June 1990,University of Texas, Austin.van Eynde, Frank 1988: The Analysis of Tense andAspect in Eurotra.
In: Proceedings of COLING-88,Budapest, Vol.2:699-704.Vendler, Zeno 1967: Linguistics in Philosophy.
CornellUniversity Press, Ithaca, N.Y., 97-121.- 274  -
