TOWARDS A CORE VOCAI IULARY FOI l  A NATURAL I .
,ANGUAGESYSTEMI lubcrt l.chnmnnIBM l)cutschhmd Gmbl l ,  Scientific ('enterinstitute for Knowledge Based SystemsWilckensstr.
laI)-69(10 11cidelbcrg, (;ci'manylhnaih !,1'~!!
at I)!
l l ) iBM I.BITNI'71'ABSTRACTThe desire to construct robust and portable na-tural language systems has led to research onhow a core vocabulary for such systems can bedefined.
Stalistical methods and semantic riteriafor doing this arc discussed and compared.
Cur-rcnlly it docs not seem possible to precisely de-fine the notion of core vocabulary, but it isargued that workable criteria can nevertheless be\['o1.1110.
l:inally it is emplmsized that the imple-mentation of a core vt~cabulary must be seen asa long-range research prt~gram rather than as ashort-term goal.Motiva!ionRcasearch on natural language processing sys-tems today strives for the construction of robustand portable systems) A system is robust, if itcan handle a large variety of user inputs withoutgiving up or producing unexpected results.
Asystem is portable in the sense intended here, ifit is not geared to a single subject domain, butcan be ported with a reasonable ffort to a vail-ely of subjccl domains.
It is common under-standing that there cxisls a t:t:llhal \[i'aglnt'.tlt of alanguage which I. is required for dealing withvirtually any subject d(~main, anti 2. is invariantwith respect o meaning and use accross subjectdonmins, it is of course a non-trivial empiricalquestion whether such a cen{ral fragment reallyexists, and if so, to say what it is, but a numberof researchers scenl tO share the asstllnption thatit does (ef.
e.g.
Alshawi ct al.
(19R8)).
Any ro-bust and portablc system would then have tohandle this core fi'agmcnl.in this paper I am concerned with a second- related - assumption, namely that there ex-ists a core vocabulary which is needed for handl-ing any subject domain.
'llfis assumpti(m is alsoshared by many researchers, and it tmdcrlies theproduction of basic vocabularies for languagelearning such as Ochlcr (1980).
l.Jsually the att-thors claim that their word lists are I)ased onstatistical investigations, but they also emphasizethat.
they did not slavishly stick to the statisticsbut used additional crilcria such as "usagevalue", "availability", "familiarity", or"lcamability" without ever saying how these areeslablished.2I will address the following questions:I. l low can the intuilivc notion of core vocab-ulary be properly dciincd?2.
l low can statistical methods be employedto define a core vocabtdaD, and how do theyrelate to semantic riteria?3.
What semantic riteria can be found to de-fine a core vocabulary?Definitions of a core vocabulary"l:here are several ways to define corevocab,lary, I can think of the following three:1.
The core vocabulary consists of the n mostfrequent words of a hmguage.2.
The core w~cabulary is that vocabularywhich is common to all nativc speakers ofa language.3.
The sema,tic core vocabulary consists oflhose words which suffice to dcfinc all of theremaining vocabuh~ry of a language.The first two definitions call Re" statisticalmethods which shall be discussed in the nextgcction, and the third onc obviously requires a.~cmanlic approach which shall bc discusscd in~cclion "Soma,tic crilcria".Statistical methodsl:rcqucncy counts have well established the basicpropcrtics of the frequency distribution for textcorpora.
Thus in Kuccra and l;rancis (1967) weget coverage ligures like lifts lbr their completecorl~US of about I million tokens:10 most frequent words:100 most frequent words:1000 most frequent words:24.26 %47.43 %68.86 %The research deso'ibed here has been comlucted i. the eonh;xt of the I .I I,O(; project (I lerzog et al, 1986).II has profiled fi'om inlensive discussio.s with R. Maye,'.
Mnch of the underlying statistical work on textcorpora is dec Io U, Bandara and (L Walch from Ihe speech recognition project SPRIN(\] (Wothke etat., 1989).Our investigations ;ire based (.I (~erman, but for ease of refere.ce also some l!nglish examples are given.- 303  -These figt,rcs vary only slightly with corlms size,and also for German similar values are observed.!
lowevcr, while coverage figures are rather stablewith respect o the n most frequent words of acorpus, what are tile n most frequent words mayvary widely with corpora or subcorpora.
Twoparameters rcsponsible for this variation are ob-vious:I.
Subject matter and2. '
Communicative function.Thus in the "Kultur" section of a newspaperwhich we have analyzed we see that words likeMusik, Theater, Regisseur, etc.
occur with adrastically higher freqt, ency than in the othersections, which of course can be attributed tosubject matter.
13ul personal pronouns, in par-ticular 1st and 2nd person pronouns, also showa much higher frequency, and this can hardly beattrihutcd to subject matter, rather to differentcommunicative functi(ms of feuillet(mistie writ-ing and say economic news.All of tiffs relates of course to tile much dis-cussed issue of what c,mstitutes a representatitvecorpus for statistical inguistic analysis.
Sincespecific subject matters and communicativefunctions vary in importance for different speak-ers of a language, it will be difficult if not ina-possible to eliminate arbitrariness.
Rather, adefinition of representative corpus must take i n toaccount ile research goals pursued.For a natural anguage system which is sup-posed to analyze and generate texts, to engage indialogues with users, and which is to acquireknowledge fi'om the analysis of definiti(ms andrules formulaled in natural language, one needsa corpus of texts where all these aspects are suf-ficicntly rcprcscntcd.
We were able to draw upona wtriety of corpora none of w\[fich would sh()wall the featt, res rcquircd, but the combination ofthem seems to be quite reasonable.We conlpared Ihe fi)llowing five word lists:I. Oehlcr (1980): (;rundwortschatz consistingof 2247 words,2.
Erk (1972): scientific texts from 34 disci-plines, 1283 words with fl'cquency > 20,3.
Pregel/Rickhcit (1987): texts by primaryschool children, 593 words with frequency> 20,4.
SPRING-corpus of newspaper texts, 2733most frequent words,5.
I )UI)EN (1989): definitions for words be-ginning with a, 2693 words with frequency>4.Frona these, word lists IL were formed consistingof those words occurring in at least n of the ori-ginal word lists (I < n < 5).
The lengths of theselisls are B~: 5409, !12 : 2248, l.h: 1215, B4: 565, andB5 : 116.The size of /Is shows thai a really commoncore of a varicty of texts may be extremely small,the successive losening of rcstrictimls used hereallows for a balanced extension of this very smaUcore.
The list//3 was chosen as the statistical corevocabulary serving as a base for applying se-mantic criteria, becat, se the overall core vocabu-lary was envisaged to have a size of approx.
1500words.
Inspection shows that many intuitivelybasic words and very few idiosyncratic words arecontained ue to the method of intersecting theword lists, l lence, !1~ seems quite reasonable.Semanlic criteriaIf one takes tim n most frequent words of anyfrequency count one will no doubt discover thatthese words will not exhibit a linguistic closurein the sense that natural scntcnces can be formedwith all and only the words in the set.
l:urtherone will see that semantic relations will be in-complete.
Thus one  tinds in Oehler (1980) whichis based on the old Kacding count that weiblich(female) occurs but not its antonym re&milch(male).
For a core vocabulary to bc set up for anatural anguage system, 1 think, tmc must strivefor lingt, istic closure, since otherwise, one cndsup with words one cannot use.
This means thatyou cannot base the core w~cabulary on fre-quency counts alone.l~urthermore, one cannot expect hat one willimve just the vocabulary needed to formulatedelinitions for the words in the list chosen.
Toavoid circularity, one will have to accept thatcertai,i words cannot bc defined wilhin the vo-cabulary, but one will also have to accept thatfor some words less than complete definitionscan be given.
Because of this lack of delinability,a sere'retie core wwal,llary can only be under-stood as an approximativc notion geared towards"the best cmc can do".
What one can hope todo, is to define1.
taxonomic rdations,2.
"selcctional restrictions" or constraints onseunauflic ompatibility, and3.
meaning rules of arbitrary complexity (in-cluding classical definitions).1 propose to formulate all of these typcs of rulesin natural language for B3 trying to stay withinat least tile vocabulary of B, , to add lhe wordsused in the fommlations to the original set, andcontinue until one cannot think of further rules.I claim that one can achieve a fixed point fromwhere on no new words are added to tim set, andthat at this moment one has reached a rathergood approximation to a semantic ore vocabu-lary.There is undoubtedly a relationship betweenfrequency and semantic relevance: sincetaxonomic relations are often exemplified byanaphoric references, ince semantic ompatibil-ity constraints lead to tile co-occurrence of ap-- 304  -propriate words, and since other more complexsemantic relationslfips arc bound to be exhibitedin the various threads of discourse, one has allreason to expect a certain amount of congruencebetween frequency counts and the semantic orevocabulary as defined above.The work on fimnulating taxonomic re-lati(,ns, semantic onstraints and other meaningrules is underway, and since it will inw,lve all ofthe w)cabulary, linguistic losure will be achievedat the same time.As an example, take a taxonomic rule forArm which is in BsJeder(B3) Arm ist Tei1(B4) eines KiSrpers(B3)(Every arm is part of a body.
)The word Kreperteil (body part) is only avail-able in Bj and was therefore not used, or insteado1' 7"eil one could also have used Glied(B3,member), bu!
then the rule would not havecovered arms of machines or rivers.
This high-lights a big problem in the natural language for-mt, lation of meaning rules: how is ambiguitydealt with?
Space does not permit a full dis-cussion here, therefore suffice it to say that it isone of our research goals to formulate meaningrules which specify criteria for disambiguation.Linguistic descriptionThe preceding discussion has concentrated onhow to establish a core vocabulary.
Now a fewbrief remarks hall follow on how the words ofthe core vocabulary can bc linguistically de-scribed.
'l'he morphology of I:mguagcs such as(\]crman is well understood and has been codedfor an extendcd vocabulary in Ihc lexical data-base of the IJ:,X project (llamett ct al., 1986).This database also conlains dctailcd syntacticinforuaation, in pa~l.icular on government pat-terus.It is the description tat' lhe semanlie (andpragmatic) properties of many words one wouhlobviously wanl h) include in a core vocabularylhat will confront us with huge unsoivcd theore-tical problems.
Be it modal verbs or proposi-tional attitudes, sentence adverbs or "abstract"nouns of various kinds, hwestigations on someindividual words havc generated heaps of litera-ture, for others it seems that people have noteven dared to look at thcm.
l)oes this make theenterprise of implementing a core w)cabulary afutile one?
I think not.
I think the implementa-tion of a core w)cabulary should be seen as along-range research goal for both computationaland theoretical linguistics, and filrthermore thatnatural language systems provide a good envi-ronmcnt for doing experiments in semantics, be-cause they encourage an integrated treatment oflinguistic phenomena.Conclusions()ur research on establishing a core vocabularytor German in the framework of the I,I1,OGproject Ires revealed that currently no absolutedefinition can be given, but ways have beenshown how to arrive at a working dclinition withrespect o the objectives of natural anguage sys-tems.
It has been shown that both statisticalmclhods and semanlic criteria can, and I think,have to contribute to the establishment of a corevocabulary.The linguistic description and thus the im-plcmentation of a core vocabulary dependsheavily on progress in theoretical linguistics, inparticular in semantics and pragmatics, but 1want to stress that h)cussing on a core w~cabu-lary is a fruitful way to direct linguistic research,which can be supported by the need for inte-graled treatments in natural anguage systems.ReferencesAlshawi, !I., D. M. Carter, .I.
van F, ijck, R. C.Moore, I).
B. Moran, !
;.
C. N. l'crcira, and A.G.  Smi th  (1988):  "Research Programme in Na-tural language Processing - Annual Report",Nattie Project Document NA-16, ('ambridge:SR!
International.Barnett, B., 11. l,chmann, M. Zocppritz(1986): "A word database for natural languageprocessing", Proceedings I lth lnterm~tional Con-.ference OlZ Complllalional Lingui.t'tic,~ COI.ING86Auyttst 25th to 29th, 1986, Bonn.
l,'e&,ral Repub-lit: of (;ermany.
435-440.I;,rk, !!.
(1972): Zur Lexik wisscnschafificherI,'achtexte, Mi'mchen: I h, eber.Ilcrzog, O. et al (1986): "I.II.OG -- l,in-guistic and Ix,gic Mcthods Ibr the ('omputa-tional Undcrshmding of (;crvnan",IJLOG-Report Ib, Stuttgart: IBM I)eutschhmd.Kucera, 1 I., W. N. Francis (1967): Computa-tional ,4nalysis t f  Present-Day /Irnerican F, nglish.Providence, Rh Brown University Press.Oehlcr, II.
(1981)): KLETT Grund- undAuflmmvortschatz Deutsch.
Stuttgart: Klett.l'regel, D., G. Rickheit (1987): DerWortschatz im Grumlschulalter.
I iildeshcim:()Ires.Wothke, K., U. B~mdara, J. Kempf, E.Keppel, K. Mohr, G. Walch (1989): "TheSI~RING Speech Recognitk)n System forGerman", in: Proceedings of Eurospeech "89.VoL 2, 9-12.- 305  -
