Modelling Knowledge for a Natural LanguageUnderstanding SystemGudrun  g lose ,  Thom,xs P i r le inIBM GermanyScienti f ic CenterIns t i tu te  for Knowledge Based SystemsP .O .Box  80 08 80D-7000 Stut tgar t  80Emaih  KLOSE@DSOLILOG,  P IRLE IN@DSOLILOGAbstractIn the field of knowledge based systems for natural an-guage processing, one of the most challenging aims isto use parts of an existing knowledge base for differ-ent domains and/or different asks.
We support thepoint that this problem can only be solved by using ad-equate metainformation about the content and struc-turing principles of the representational systems con-cerned.
One of the prerequisites in this respect is thetransparency of modelling decisions.After a short introduction to our scenario, we willpropose general dimensions for characterizing knowl-edge in knowledge based systems.
These dimensionswill be differentiated according to linguistic levels ofinvestigation i order to deduce structuring principlesfor the modelling process.
The resulting criteria will beevaluated in a detailed e~ample taken from our proto-typical implementation.We hope to contribute some promising steps towardsa methodology of knowledge ngineering with naturallanguage and common sense orientation.1 Introduct ionIn the following, we wmlt to sketch first results ofknowledge ngineering research which was under-taken for the LILOG project (Linguistic and logicmethods).
LILOG develops concepts for naturallanguage systems for text understanding.
Majorreslflts are available in a prototype system LEU/21(I, ILOG Experimentier- Umgebung) 2.In order to reduce the complexity of the system,it has to be decomposed into modules.!
Leu/2  is being developped at IBM Germany in coopers-l ion with some unlveralty partners,  and il fully implementedin Prolog under AIX.
The knowledge ba,e for the domain un-der investigation consists of about 600 concept definitions,among these some 100 belonging to the upper l t ructure.The number  of att r ibutes for each of these concepts ever-ages around 20.
At thlJ t ime the number  of axioms for ourdomain it approximately 300.~"LILOG Expet imel l ta l  Envl ronmenC'Our approach embodies modules oriented to-wards levels oflingadstic investigation like morphol-ogy, syntax and semantics, h~ addition the modulesdifferentiate between analysis and the generationprocesses.
In the ideal case, all processes and mod-ules will be supported by conunonsense \]ulowledge.A crucial problem in tiffs context is the construc-tion of an adequ'ate background knowledge base.The: need for a methodology is obvious.
First stepshave been made in expert system research, whereboth domain andtask are for the most part clearlyspecifiable.
This does not hold for systems withnatural language - and conunon sense orientation.In what follows, we will outline the lulowledge en-gineering approach in LILOG along three dimen-sions.Task:Domain and te~cts were selected in order to covera wide variety of lingalistic phenomena to be han-dled by the linguistic parts of the system (i.e.
pars-lug:and generating components).
Iat order to provethe;appropriate understanding of the texts, the at.chitecture was d~sigqled a.o.
as a question/answersystem.
Hence, we get the additional task to gen-erate language.Domain :For LEU/2, the domain was restricted totravel guide information about the city center ofDiisseldorf.
As a first step, a set of written data wasobtained by travel guides, supplemented by travelagencies and a local inspection of Dfisseldorf citycenter.The set of different entities was to meet the fol-lowing eonditlona: it should be large enough for arelevant size of the knowledge base, interconnectedenough to allow for interesting inferences but at thesame thue small enough for being handled withina In'ototypical implementation.We decided to work with a couple of short texts(frequently found in travel guides), which describe- 239 -particular sightseeing items, and a one page narra-tive text about a group of people on a prototypicalsightseeing tour.
In the next step, the chosen textswere classified according to lingnistic criteria andanalyzed for their propositional contents.Granu lar i ty :hi order to obtain a first hint at the varietyof text understanding tasks whidi LEU/2 was in-tended to deal with, native speakers were asked toformulate questions and to provide acceptable an-swers concerning the contents of the texts.The selection of items aud the way these nativespeakers talked about them, served as guideline todetermine an appropriate granularity of the luiowl-edge base.The overall performance of the system is deter-mined by the interaction of it's components.
Dueto the modular approach, the relevant subtasks ofthe kno,~ledge base had to be separated from thoseof the lezical, syntactic, semantic analysis compo-nents and the generation module.
As a result ofthis prelinfinary investigation, three d imens ionsof  knowledge turned out to be crucial to the mod-elling process.2 Dimensions of KnowledgeWe will discuss knowledge from two different per-spectives.
On the one hand we have those:condi-tions which lead to qualitative requirements con-cerning the contents of the lu~owledge base.
Theother perspective concerns aspects induced by for-real devices, i.e.
the kalowledge representation for-nmlism used.2.1 Qua l i ta t ive  D imens ionsIf you consider knowledge representation as a spe-cial case of model theory, you will get a hint of howto proceed.
As to the breadth of the model, the firstdimension at issue, this means:The job of the representing world is to reflectsome aspects of the represented wodd in somefashion.\[Palmer, 1978\]As regarding rcznularily, the second dimension,a model reflects only a subset of the characteristicsof the entities it represents.
This, in turn, deter-mines the depth of the modelA tldrd dimension is given by  the complexity o\]the task the model is intended to cover.All three dimensions are shown in picture 1.Some of the consequences for the model inLILOG following from this view of knowledge rep-resentation are described below.2.2  Formal  Dev ices  o f  Representa -t ionIn the field of logic based formalisms for codingbackground knowledge in natural anguage process-Breadth of the domainDepth of the model-<__Task orientationFigure 1: Qualitative dimensions of knowledgeing systems, there is some controversy on tile designand use of formal constructs.
Topics in this de-bate are tile function of axioms compared to recentexpert system teHmology, the function of struc-tured concept hierarchies \[Monarch and Nirenburg,1987\], the quality and number of additional at-tributes (roles in KL-ONE like systems) or syn-tactic validation Criteria \[Horacek, 1989\].
Our ap-proach aims at finding useful sdectional criteria fordifferent expressive means of the formalism LLwooin order to bridge the actual \[gap between problemdriven and technology driven ~ research.We can make use of two kinds of formal con-structs:s A frmne-des.cription language similar to KL-ONE (cf.
e.g.
\[Brachman and Schmolze,1985\]), which serves to represent tile terminobogy of the domain by means of !sort expressions for classes of entities, or-ganized hierarchically as sets and subsets(i.e.
the logical subsumption relation),mid- two Place predicates and functions (i.e.features and roles), attached to specificsorts and constituting functional and re-lational connections between sorts, and?
axioms of first order predicate logic, express-ing inferential dependencies between domainterms hi form of the axiomatic semmltics forthose terms.So the formalism used here' is colnparable to e.g.KRYPTON (s.e.g.
\[Brachman et ~., 19851).In the following, we will discuss the qualitativedimensions of knowledge in more detail.
We will fo-cus the qualitative criteria by differentiating themaccording to our scenario.SSee \[Lehnert, 1988\] for that distinction.tFor a detailed description of the formalism LLILOO see\[Pletat and yon Luck, 1089\]?
240-3 Criteria for Structuring theOntology3.1 Demands  Resu l t ing  f rom theTaskAs mentioned above, the task of our system is tosimulate text understanding.
This requires a trans-fer of insights from linguistic research into knowl-edge engineering.
In the ideal case, structures ofthe model will be strongly influenced by naturallanguage analyses.Linguistic knowledge is relevant in various re-spects:Word  or ientat ion ,  for example, impliesclose hxterrelationships with research on lexicalknowledge: afrdiated generic terms, discrimi-nating features, idiosyncratic aspects of use,etc.
However, you may run into difficulties byrelating syntactic ategories (like word classes)with conceptual structures.
So thematic rolescannot be directly trmtsformed into ontologicalroles as a part of the background knowledge.In the sentenceThe bus took the participants of theconference to the city center, sthe 'bus' is ml agent of art.
event from the syn-tactic point of view attd at the same time con-ceptualized as instrument (and not agent) ofmx event in an ontological sense.Sentence  or iented  linguistic investigationimplies the reconstruction of knowledge onthe sentence level, as opposed to the mean-ing of single words or of textual structures.As all illustration might serve temporal in-formation about the progress of actions orsituations.
Theoretical: work in this fieldwas initiated e.g.
by Z. Vendlcr \[Vendler,1967\] with his analysis of verbs and times.His differentiation of states, activities, accom-plishments and achievements has been estab-lished as a well known classification of verbs.One important criterion for this disthtction isthe goal-orientedness of the concerned verbs:states and activities are by definition notgoal-oriented, whereas accomplishments andachievements are goal-oriented in a temporaUyextended or punctual way, respectively.The aspect of goal-orlentedness turned out tobe central in our domain, e.g.
as to directionalverbs of movement.
The sentenceThe tourists took the bus to the Rhineand went for a boat trip.
sSThe German version of the sentence is part of the text?orptm of LEO/2:  "Der Bus brachte die Tei lnehmer der Kon-ferens in die Innenstadt" .e"Die Tour isten na lunen den Bus bls EUlI1 R\]lel,ll tadmuch,  an elnen Boo,san, f lag.
"allows to hlfer by default that the touristsreached their goal (the Rhine), because the lo-cation of the following event (the boat trip) isthe stone as the arrival point of the bus ride.By introducing oal-orientedness as a part ofthe definition of events, it will hence be possi-ble to give an afflrmativc answer to the ques-tionWere the!ourists at the Rhine?
Ts Moreover, a text necessarily involves dis-course  or iented  information.
Text under-standing phenomena like annphora resolutioncan only be accounted by accessing back-ground knowledge concerning interconceptualrelation.The tourists went for a boat trip.
Theytook the seats on the sundeck, sIn order to capture the meaning of these sen-tences, three:steps have to be inferred: A boattrip is usually undertaken with a boat; a boatoften has a sundeck; and a sundeck mostly of-fers seats.3 .2  Demands  Resu l t ing  f rom theDomainIn the LEU/2 context, we have to deal with thecomprehensive task of text understanding mtda relatively narrow domain.
Consequently, thegeneral problem of conceptualization is lim-ited by a restricted number of entities relevantto our field.
Modelling these entities includesboth the selection of concepts which appearill the domain, and the plausible combinationand sununhlg of recurrent concepts.
The plau-sibility of modelling decisions in this sense canbe judged from an engineering point of view interms of optimizing search space (system per-formance) and from a philosophical point ofview in terms of the principle "of economy o/the ontolog~The concepts RBSTAURATION, CONSTRUCTIONand RBNOVATION nlay serve as ml illustrationtaken from our domain.
As they share simJlaraspects anti inferences, we decided to intro-duce the supersort MODIFICATION (see section4).3 ,3  Granu lar i ty :  Depth  o f  Mod-e l l ing  and  In ferenc lngIn the third qualitative dimension of knowl-edge we have to face the problem of dellmi-tatlng the depth of the model in order to re-duce complexity.
As it is not possible to giver ?
'Waren die To~tEisten ant Rhe ln?
"tThe  German version of the sentence is part of the textcorpus of LEU/2t  ~Die Tot~isten macttten elnen Boo , taut .flux.
Sic nahmea dl.
'e P la t te  auf  dem $onnendeck ein".- 241  -an exhaustive system of categories o, it Seemslegitimate to deternfine primitive concepts de-pendent on the chosen task and domain.
Inaddition, selectional criteria for clusters 'of in-ferences have to be determined.
(See examplein section 4).
As a possibility of measuringthe depth of a model, tlayes ({llayes, i979\])proposed a ratio of axioms per concept.
:Aside from measuring the expression of dimen-sions of knowledge by me/ms of quantitativedata, it is important o consider qualitative de-pendencies between the depth and task Of themodel on the one hand and between the depthand domain on the other.Depth  in re lat ion to the taskWithin the task of text understmlding,i somerequirements of representation are e.g.
: goalorientation, cuhnination, causal connections,intention, etc.
\[Trabasso and Sperry, 1985\].lal all these cases the dlosen granularity hasstrong impact upon the resohttion of interre-lations in the texts) ?Depth  in re lat ion to the domainThis connection cmt be illustrated by the fol-lowing exmnple: A typical event of our domainis RBSTAURATION.
~n our scenario, t0uristicaspects like the architect (agent), the time andthe object concerned (e.g.,, tlle facade) will beof crucial importance.
Given a different sce-nario like the protection of historical monu-ments, we would have to face an interest inconsiderably more details, requiring the cholccof a deeper granularity.4 Design of the Knowl-edge BaseIll this section, we first want to give a brief sur-vey of the ontology.
After that, wc will takeup the sorts and regularities mentioned so farand present a structured exemplary mo~lel for-malized in LLXLOO ?Sort expressions arc used to represent the cate-gories of our domain model.
The upper strut-lure of the resulting ontology portrays somegeneraLized schemes of organigation of relativedomain-independence.
When descend!ng themodel towards the lower #fracture, the cate-gories arc defined much closer to the word leveland therefore domain-specific in the sense ofezplicit text \]ulowledge.
|IAs already nlentioncd, we want to simulate un-derstanding of basically two different types of.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
?See for example \[Tamas, 1986, p. 509\]t?For  a more  detailed di.cu.sion, see \[Pirleln, 1900\].t l This differentiation between upper and lower ~tructureof the model is introduced by \[Maim et al, 1985\].texts, i.e.
short texts describing single sight-seeing items and narrative texts dealing withsequences of events.
This leads us to the re-qulremcnt of both all object-oriented and allevent-oriented part of the eoncephlal hierar-chy.Consequently, one of our basic design decisionsis due to J. Hobbs (cf.
\[llobbs et al, 1987\])and results ill a reification of predicates.
So inour model all events, states etc.
have conceptstatus on their own.This technique enables us to model the caseframes for verbs in all analogical manner to thelexical entrie~ of the analyzing component aswell as to incorporate tile structures for eventsetc.
within the categories alike the definitionsfor objects 121 It makes sense to think aboutobjects as wcU as about events in terms of theirspatial mad temporal environment, althoughthese knowleklge specifications will obviouslybe quite different.An  example taken from the event cluster mayserve as an illustration of several consequencesof the criteria mentioned above.
As to thebreadth of the model, the relevance of theevent part of the ontology appears intuitivelyplausible with respect to our domain, namelya scenario of cities, with modifying events.
Wehave to deal with sights of the city like facadesof important.buildings, and the events of mod-ification related to them show a considerableresemblance of ilnportant features of meaning- although the verbs are no real synonyms inthe linguistic sense.Figure 2 shows a screen dump witll the rele-vant part of' the concept hierarchy.
The pic-ture illustrates the effect of bundling that theintroduction!
: of adequate superconcepts has,and which allows for structured inferencing interms of system efficiency, hi this part of ourconcept l l icr~chy the boarderlinc between Up-per Structure attd Lower Structure is clearlyidentifiable.
When descending the hierarchy,the sort KONSTRUKTIVSIT falls out into sev-eral domain-dependent subsorts.The figure is followed by the respective sortexpressions written in the bt.xLoo list struc-ture(the sort KONSTRUKTIVSIT in the figur?corresponds to CONSTRUC~PION in the Englishlist of sort expressions), expanded by roles andfeatures which do not appear in tile graphicrepresentatimt.
It should be noted here thata third kind of information is omitted even inthe list notation.
More general roles and fen-tures (llke e.g.
agent, time m~d so on) are in-herited by supcrconcepts and not visible in nei-ther presentation.
(The short lille in tile upperleft corner of some concept boxes indicate theexistence of  additional hidden superconcepts.
)I 2A  slmillar tecimlq,te you call filld e.g.
in \[Matin et ai.,toss\].- 242 -t~~b(~,rm a~tlntlt~t~t  KIx~" t~?? '
iIlk ikt tr l~m tat~ IMrIIeLePI I Pole I :Ple*m ~hrr ~rmw*.~ I .l~eu fmqm~l  tacat~M IllmeJr l t t~  nte,r ptr~eeterl l role ) :f lus* eBtt~ i~rt.et~n { .l~eu fenV~" t~ckt, rm~l l ibe l-~, In~o black ,~bile black-> pro,ross black .tile black-> bf-~ lgels-> sleDS-+ display black .
t i le  blacb-> qets- ,  llst black .tile blackr?lej j ~  tte._l ra~,.msd~Figure 2: Lnplementation of the 'modification'-eventThe definition of the relevant event concepts inLLILOO is followed by an axiom which trans-fers information about the time of a construc-tion event to the beginning of lifetime of theconcerned object.
This kind of structuredmodelling allows to dispense with writing sim-ilar axioms for a number of resembling events.In order to demonstrate task orientation, itwould be necessary to consider a broader partof the ontology, because aspects like intention,causality or culmination have been modeUedseparately.
In addition, one would have to takea closer look at the ensemble of connected com-ponents in the system.
The limitation of thedepth  of the model can be seen from the factthat the event concepts discussed o not havemore differentiated subconcepts mid, of course,from the fact that not nil possible roles andfeatures have been integrated into the model.In a scenario "protection of historical monu-ments", for example, the instruments of ren-ovation might be central and would induce apartly different granularity in the model.Def in i t ion in LLILOQ:sor t  aod i l l oat iensor t  essent ia l  ned i?| i tuat ien .< tnd(Iodifioation,essent ia l _ob j  :ob jec t ) .sor t  var i t t loasor t  osnst l "~o~ionlo f t  dest ruet~onsor t  aaterlal, variation< etsont ia lmod i .
( .< essont ia lasd i~.< essent ia l Jod i?
.and(var ia t ion .e l lent ia l  obj :mater ia l  ob joot ) .sor t  res tau~r~ion  < nater ia l  var ia t ion .sor t  mater ia l  oonst ruot ion< and(oonst ruet lon .o l sent i t I+ob j  :nater la l  ob jeot ) .sor t  nent t l  e0nst ruot ion  < and(consbruot ion .o Joont i t l .ob j  :not (uator ia l  ob jaot ) ,sor t  bu i ld ing  < mater ia l  ?onst ruot ioa .The twofold ~nodelllng of PHYSICAL and MBN-TAb CONSTRUCTION is e.g.
necessary  to  dis-tinguish ideas developped by an architect fromthe realization of the building.
13For constructive vents one can define the fol-lowing regularity (axiom):axiom ru le30  gera l l  DI : const ruct ion ,02 : ob jec t ,T3 : t ine in torva l l ;essont ia l .ob j (DX,02)and l i ve t imo(O2,T3)->moets (D I ,T3) .The relation meet,: is one expression of ouraxionlntizati0n of Allen's time interval logic\[Allen, 19831 in LLILOG .
Rule30 exemplifiesa transformation rule between the clusters ofevents nnd objects, respectively.Our task setting implies certain ways of in-teraction between Knowledge Engineering andthe generation component.
1t" you want to ob-tain flexibility for the generation componentwith respect to the possible diversity of an-swers, information should be available in casesof object centered questions("What do you know about object xy ...")as well as in comparable vent oriented re-quests("What happened after ...").I t For  reasons  o f  c la r i ty  we renotmced on showing  a l l  re-spect ive  Supersor t8 ,- 243 -5 Conc lus ionOne of the most discussed topics in the field oftext nnderstand ing is the separation betweensemantic knowledge on the one hand and com-mon sense knowledge or world \]mowledge onthe other.
During the conceptian and imple-mentat ion of the modules in our prototype,this discussion was reflected by a considerableflexibility in the division Of functions betweensemantic analysis and inferential processes.During the integration, descriptive parts of lin-guistic theories had to be completed with pro-cedural or functional aspects.
Typical tats fitsappeared eadl time it was clear what shouldbe ezpre~sed within certMn modules (like mor-phology or syntax), but it was unclear how toproceed from one module to the next.
In theideal case, this allowed for conclusions:on in-compatibilities between the levels of linguisticanalysis corresponding to the respective, mod-ules.One of these phenomena is the identification ofadjectival passive constructions versus regularverb:The museum will be opened at 11a .
ln .
14 .The illuSelllU is open from 9 to 15 t ' .According to Vendler's classifies,toni openshould be categorized as an event in the firstsentence and, combined with to be in the sec-ond case, as a state.
The integration I of themodules showed that none of the system com-ponents was able to deliver this differentiation- in this case, the reason was the incompati-bility between unsorted unification grauunarsand the necessity to overwrite default vMues.l.n the fold of Knowledge Engineering, thequestion how to make contents of one lu~owl.edge base available to n second one (n6rmallywith quite another kind of task setting) hasbeen receiving growi.g attention.
One of themost interesting parts of this problem ~:onsistsin the iuterrelationship between cotluuon sense- and domain specific knowledge.
We hope tocontribute some important steps towards han-dling this problenx by making explicit a nunx-bet of common sense oriented modelling deci-sions within the LILOG context.
It is obvious,though, that both background knowledge fornatural anguage processing and the adequateimplementation of metainfornmtion for knowl-edge base contents will be an ongoing affair forthe next years.Acknowledgement: We thank Bars Courts, Ti.bor Kiss, Ewald Lang, Kai uon Luck and Mar-t*,,Das Museum wlrd tun 11 Uhr ge~ffnet"IS"Das Musettrn is, yon 9 bls 16 Ohr ge~ffnet"tin Mezger \]or useJul ideas and stimulating dis.cessions.References\[Allen, 1983\] James F. Allen.
Maintaining knowledgeabout emportd intervals.
Communications o\]theACM, 26(11):832-843, November 1983.\[Brachman d Scbmolee, 1085\] Ronald J. Brachmanand James O. Schmohte.
An overview of the KL-ONB knowledge representation system.
9(2):171-216, April 1086.\[Brachman etal., 1985\] Ronald J. Brachmnn, Victo-ria Pigman Gilbert, and Hector J. bevesque.
Anessential hybrid reasoning system: knowledge andsymbol level accotmt, in KRYPTON.
pages 632-539, August 1985.\[Hayes, 1979\] Patrick J. Hayes.
The naive physicsmanifesto.
In D. Michle, editor, Ezperl Sys-tems in the Microelecironic Age, gdlnbtucgh Univ.Press, 1070.\[Hobb.
et al, 1987\] Jerry R. Hobbs, William Croft,and Todd Davies.
Commonsense metaphysicsand iexlcal semantics.
Compagational Linguis.tics, 13(3-4)t241-260, August 1987.\[Horacek, 1989\] Hehnut Horacek.
Towards principlesof ontology.
In D. Metslng, editor, Peso.
GWAI-8g, pages 323-330, Springer, Berlin, Germany,1989.\[Lehnert, 1988\] W.G.
Lehnett.
Knowledge based nat-ural language understanding.
In H. Strobe, ed-itor, BIrp|oeing Artificial Intelligence, paget 83-131, Morgan Kaufraann, San Marco, 1088.\[Mann etai., 1986\] William C. Matm, Yigai Arena,Christian M. I. M. Matthlessen, Shaft Naber-schnig, and Nortnan  K .
Sondhe i tner .
Janus  ab-s t rac t ;on  structure~draft 2.
Draft paper, Uniter-sity at Southern California, htformatlon ScienceInstitute, Marina del Roy, Cal., October 1085.\[Monarch and Nirenburg, 1987\] I. Monarch and S.Nirenhttrg.
The role of ontology for knowledge-bated systems.
In B. Gaines J.
Boots, T. Ad-dle, editor, Prec.
BKAW-87, Reading University,Reading, Mass., 1987.\[Palmer, 1978) Stephen g. Palmer.
Pmldamental s-pects of cognitive representation.
In gleanerRosch and Barbara B. Lloyd, editors, Cogni-tion and Categorisation, Lawrence grlbaum As-sociate*, Hillsdale, New Jersey, 1978.\[Pirleln, 1990\] Thomas Pirlein.
Rekonstruktion?
on Hintergrundlvissen ~r  sin tvissensbasieriesieziversiehendes System.
IBM DeutschlandGmbH, September 1990.\[Plelat and yon Luck, 1080\] Ode Pie,at and Kai yonLuck.
Knowledge Representation in LILOG.
InKarl-Hans Blgtius, Uii Hedtstfick, and ClausRollinger, editor,, Sort, and Types in ArtificialIntelligence, 1980.\[Tarots, 1986\] G. Tama,.
The Logic of Categories.W.
H. Preeman and Company, Stuttgart, 1986.\[Ttabasso and Sperry, 1986\] T. Trabasso and L.L.Sperry.
Causal relatedness and importance of,tory event,.
Journal of Memory and Language,(0):695-611, 24 1985.\[Vendler, 1907\] Zeno Vendler.
Lingui#ticr in Philor,oph?.
Cornell University Press, Ithaca, Iq'.
Y.,1967.- 244  -
