?
~ ?TEACHING THE ENGL ISH TENSE:INTEGRATING NAIVE  AND FORMAL GRAMMARS IN  AN INTELL IGENTTUTOR FOR FOREIGN LANGUAGE TEACHINGDanilo Fum 1, Bruno Pani 2 and Carlo Tasso 21 Dipartimento di Psicologia - Universit~ di Trieste, via delrUniversifi 7, 1-34123 Trieste (Italy) -fum@ uts882.units.infn.it.bitnet2 Laboratorio di Intelligenza Artificiale - Universith di Udine, via Zanon 6, 1-33100 Udine (Italy) -tasso@ uduniv.infn.it.bimetABSTRACTA basic problem that must be dealt with inorder to build an intelligent tutoring system (ITS) inthe domain of foreign language teaching is that ofestablishing what kind of grammatical knowledgehas to be included in the domain expert module.Two basic options are possible: (i) to use a naive orpedagogical grammar, comprising knowledge derivedfrom textbooks and school grammars or (ii) to useone of the formal grammars developed by theoreticaland computational linguists.
The paper discusses therelationships between aive and formal grammars inforeign language teaching :and presents, as a casestudy, an attempt o integrate the two approacheswithin ET (English Tutor), an ITS aimed at helpingItalian students master English verb usage.
Moreparticularly, the paper focuses on the possibility ofintegrating a naive grammar into a systemicframework.
The reliability of the proposed approachis currently being evaluated by means of a series ofcomputational experiments with the VerbGeneration Expert of ET.INTRODUCTIONA problem that must be dealt with in order to buildan ITS in the domain of foreign language teachingis that of establishing what kind of grammaticalknowledge has to be included in the Domain Expertmodule.
At first sight, two distinct options arepossible:a) to utilize the knowledge contained in textbooksand school grammars;b) to adopt one of the formal grammars developedby theoretical nd computational linguists.Both these solutions have their shortcomings.Traditional grammar textbooks have seriousdrawbacks which concern both their content and theway it is presented to the student.
The introductionof the notional syllabuses and the almost generaladoption of the communicative approach havesomehow changed the general attitude and thestrategies utilized in foreign language teaching, buteven the grammars that follow these methodologiesdo not overcome the most severe limitation of whatwe call the naive approach to the representation flinguistic knowledge, i.e., the incapacity to providea global and coherent model of language.The formal grammars developed by linguists,on the other hand, show their shortcomings whenwe try to use them directly for didactic purposes.The point is that these grammars have beendeveloped to pursue goals that are different fromthose of school :grammars.
Theoretical linguists arein fact interested in providing mathematically welldefined escriptions of a language which capture thecompetence of a native speaker.
Computationallinguists are interested in discoveringcomputationally effective models of the processesthat allow the speaker to utter or to understand asentence in that language.
Considered from thepoint of view of a foreign language teacher, theseformal descriptions are generally useless ince the(meta)language in which they are framed and theconcepts which they are grounded upon are differentfrom those utilized in daily teaching.The relationship between formal and naivegrammars in foreign language teaching is dealtwith in this paper which presents, as a case study,an attempt to integrate the two approaches withinan intelligent utoring system.
The work has beencarried on in the framework of the ET (EnglishTutor) project whose long term goal is thedevelopment of a tutoring system aimed at helpingItalian students master English verb tenses.
Withinthis project, ET-1, a prototype system based on anaive approach to the grammar of tense (describedin Fum, Giangrandi, and Tasso, 1989), has beenbuilt.
The experimentation performed with ET-1provided the motivation for a critical re-evaluationand revision of some of the assumptions which theprototype was grounded upon.
The possibility offormulating some naive intuitions into a systemicrepresentation of grammatical knowledge isdiscussed in the paper and a new version of thedomain expert module exploiting the systemicapproach to tense selection is illustrated.
Thefollowing section presents our previous naiveapproach to a grammar of English verb tense,describes how the grammatical knowledge has beenutilized by the domain expert module of ET- 1, andclarifies why such an approach as been found inthe long run unsatisfactory.
The next sectionillustrates the systemic approach to tense developedby M.A.K.
Halliday (1976) and C. Matthiessen1983, 1984).
Our original contribution is thenpresented and it is shown how the naive approachhas been integrated into a systemic framework.
The149 -last section presents some evaluation criteriafor thepresent proposal.A NA IVE  APPROACH TO TENSESELECT IONThe basic goal pursued in constructing the domainexpert module - called Verb Generation Expert - ofET-1 has been that of building a glass-boxi modelof the competence underlying the choice andconjugation of an English verb tense.
One of themain concerns in designing the knowledge base forthis module has been that of maintaining thewealth of ideas and intuitions existing in the naiveaccount of tenses while developing at the sametime a computationally tractable model of the tenseselection process.In order to build the Verb Generation Expertmodule, we started by examining the explanationsabout tense usage given in a set of referencegrammars and by extracting a set of tense featuresrepresenting the ideas and concepts which wereutilized in providing such explanations.
Then wedescribed according to these features the set ofexercises to be presented to the students.To give a more concrete idea of what thedescriptions looked like, we report here the(simplified and partial) representation of anexercise:Yesterday, when I (arrive), Tom (talk) on thetelephone.
(defexercise ex5(text (Yesterday when I (arrive) Tom (talk) onthe telephone))(structure x5 (clauses (cl, c2)))(defclause cl(text (when I (arrive)))(in-exercise xS )(open-item (arrive))(clause-kind (subordinate temporal))(super ordinate (c2))(clause-form affirmative)(open-item-time-interval tl )(fact-kind (action single))(aspect (action completed))(deftemporalrelations ex5(before t2 now)(during tl t2)(during tl t3)(during t3 t2)))Each exercise is usually constituted by one or twoclauses in which some of the verbs are given in theinfinitive form and have to be conjugated into theappropriate nse.
The exercise is.described throughlists of attribute-values pairs, one for each clause.The first member of the pair indicates a tensefeature, the second member the ivalue the featurereceives in the clause.
The exercise descriptioncomprizes also a list of temporal relationsexpressing the relationships that exist between thetime intervals mentioned in the sentence.
Thesetime intervals are associated with the situations(states and/or events) described by the sentenceverbs and with the temporal expressions occurringin the sentence, and are represented through thesymbols tl .. tn.
In our exercise, for example, wefind two verbs and one temporal expression,therefore three time intervals are utilized to describethe exercise.
The time interval tl is associatedwith the state indicated by the verb to arrive, thetime interval t2 with the temporal expressionyesterday, and so on.
The temporal relationsspecify the relationships existing between theseintervals so, for example, (during tl t2) states thatthe time interval tl is included within the intervalt2 : the verb to arrive indicates thus an action thathappens within the time interval represented by t2(i.e., yesterday).
A special time interval isrepresented by the symbol now which stands forthe speaking time, i.e., the interval during whichthe sentence isbeing uttered.Since the number of the potential temporalrelations holding between the time intervalscontained in the sentence could be quite large, onlythe relations directly derivable from the exercisetext are explicitly represented in the description.
Atthe beginning of its operation, the Verb GenerationExpert deduces: therefore from the stated temporalrelation all the possible relations holding betweenthe various time intervals.
In doing this, it appliesa set of inference rules that implement a reducedversion of Allen's temporal logic (Allen, 1984).In order to be able to choose the tense for asentence clause containing an open item, it isgenerally necessary to know not only the relationbetween the time in which the sentence is utteredand the time of the events described in the sentence,but also the relation which holds between the eventtime and the so called reference time, i.e., theinterval of time the situation described in the clauserefers to.
So, for example, in the sentence:By the end of next month I shall have finished mythesis.the speaking time is now, the event ime is givenby the time interval associated with the action tofinish the thesis and the reference time isconstituted by the time interval indicated with bythe end of next month.In some clauses the reference time may beabsent and, in such cases, the only temporalrelationship involved in the choice of the tense isthat which holds between the speaking time and theevent ime.In the following operation step, the VerbGeneration Expert computes the reference time (ifit exists) for every exercise clause through a series- 15(}  -of production rules.
In our case the following rulesapplies among others:IF the clause is a main clause,there is a subordinate temporal claus e relatedto it,the event ime includes the event ime of thesubordinate mporal,TttEN set the reference time to the event ime ofthe temporal subordinate clause.The rule asserts that the main clause c2:Yesterday Tom (talk) on the telephonehas as its reference time tl, i.e., the time intervalrepresented by the event time of the subordinatetemporal c1:when I (arrive).Once the reference times for the exerciseclauses have been computed, it is possible tochoose the tense for each open item.
To do this, aset of tense selection rules are used.
The antecedentof these rules is constituted by some conditionsconcerning the tense features that must hold in theclause description, while the consequent indicatesthe tense that has to be assigned to the open item.In our example the following rules are utilized forthe clauses cl and c2, respectively:IF the clause describes apast event,the reference time is past,the event is completed?
'HEN use the simple past tense.andIF the clause describes apast event,the reference time, if defined, is past and it isincluded in the event ime,the event is not completedTttEN use the past continuous.According to our rules, therefore, the tense that ischosen for to arrive is the simple past while totalk has to be conjugated into the pastcontinuous.The last thing that needs to be done at thispoint is to conjugate the verbs into the chosentenses.
For the regular verbs a set of conjugationrules are exploited, whereas the conjugation of theirregular forms is performed by a simple dictionarylook up.Leaving aside some computationalcomplexities deriving from the need of drawing thelogical temporal inferences and of computing thereference time for each exercise clause, the processperformed by the Verb Generation Expert relies onthe same concepts and rules described in Me naivegrammars.
However, the adoption of the naiveapproach has its problems as we realized byexperimenting with the prototype.First of all, the translation of a naive grammarinto a computationally suitable form is notstraightforward.
The explanations given by thenaive grammars - the 'tense selection rules' that arederived from the textbooks - are in fact incompleteand even inconsistent.
As a result, ET-1 wassometimes incapable of solving a given exercisesince the rules of the grammar did not cover thatparticular case.
In other instances we found theopposite to be true, i.e., we obtained multipleincompatible solutions for the same exercise sinceseveral rules could be legitimately applied to theease at hand.
The computational pplication of thenaive grammars, in other words, disclosed somedeficiencies and incongruities that went unnoticedin the original formulation.Second, the informal concepts used in thenaive grammars and utilized in ET-1 to express thetense features have generally no well stateddefinition.
This means that it is difficult toattribute unequivocally the value to the temporalfeatures describing an exercise since a lot is left tothe insight of the exercise coder.
Differentimplementers can thus describe the same exercise ina different way and obtain therefore different, oftenincompatible, solutions.From the experimentation performed with theprototype, and from an analysis of its linfitations,the need of a theoretically sound formulation of thegrammatical knowledge, keeping as far as possiblethe 'cognitive transparency' of the naive grammar,has arisen.THE SYSTEMIC  APPROACH TOTENSE SELECT IONAccording to the systemic approach, twoassumptions are made concerning the grammar ofthe English tense.
These assumptions are:a) Tense opposition: the tense in English isconsidered as a three term opposition.
From alinguistic point of view, it is an opposition ofpast vs. present vs. future; from a semanticpoint of view, as we will see below, it isinterpretable as a precedence r lation betweentwo temporal variables.b) Seriality: complex tense combinations can beconstructed by repeatedly selecting among thethree term opposition.As far as the first assumption is concerned, itshould be noted that not all the linguists agree withthe idea of English as a three-tense language.
It issometimes claimed, in fact, that in English it ispossible to distinguish only between present andpast, the future being a modal form of the present.The second assumption reduces the process oftense selection to a series of iterative choicesconcerning the three term option.
In other words, atense combination like "is going to have built' ischosen by picking up the first time (primary tense)the present, then (secondary tense) the future and151 ,finally (ternary tense) the past.
The name for atense combination in the systemic approach isdetermined by considering the inverted order of thechoices: in our case the tense combination isa pastin future in present.An important point concerns which possibletense combinations are allowed.
It should be notedthat, according to Halliday, up to quinary tenses(like: "will have been going to have been taking" :a present in past in future in past in past) areadmissible in English.
Some tense combinations,however, are not allowed; in English, for instance,there is no future in future in present and thefollowing sentence isconsidered ungrammatical:* Henry is going to be going to cook dinnerThe restrictions that the English grammar puts onthe possible tense combinations are called 'stoprules' by Halliday and can thus be paraphrased:1.
The present can occur only at the ends ofthe tense sequence (as a beginning or finalchoice).2.
Except in the last and penultimate place,the same tense Cannot occur in twoconsecutive positions.3.
The future can occur only once, apart fromthe last position.These rules define whether a tense combination islegitimate but they do not indicate how a giventense combination is selected.
To this end asignificant contribution has been given byMatthiessen with his notion of chooser.
To eachoption concerning the tense, and represented in thegrammar through a system, Matthiessen assigns achooser "that states how the selection among theoptions specified is controlled.
A chooser is aprocedure that consists of steps that ascertainconceptual distinctions and make grammaticalchoices according to the conceptual distinctions.
"(Matthiessen, 1984, pg.
1).According to this point of view, a verb tenseessentially indicates the temporal relation whichholds between the speaking time and the eventtime, and the tense selection process is determinedby such a relation.
More particularly, for eachiteration step, the choosers take into account arelation of precedence (anteriority) - that wesymbolize through "<' - between two differenttemporal variables (let us call them Tx and Ty )and:if Tx come after Ty (Ty < Tx), then the pastis chosen;- if Tx comes before Ty (Tx < Ty), then thefuture is chosen;- if none of the above alternatives holds, then thechosen tense is present.The process, in other words, starts by settingthe time variable Tx to the speaking time Ts andby looking for the comparison time Tc, i.e., thetime interval the speaking time is related to.
Thisis the time that is assigned as a value to Ty.
Atthis point it is possible to choose the primary tenseaccording to the relation which holds between Tx (=Ts) and Ty (=Tc).
If the comparison time matchesthe event time Te, then the temporal relationholding between Ts and Te has been found and theresulting tense combination consists only of aprimary tense (a simple present or a simple past ora simple future).
If, on the other hand, thecomparison time is different from the event ime,the process cannot terminate since no temporalrelationship has been established between thespeaking time and the event ime.
A new iterationcycle starts by assigning the old Tc to Tx and bylooking for a new comparison time Tc to beassigned to Ty.
The choice of the secondary tenseis made again according to the relation holdingbetween Tx and Ty and the process terminates ifTc matches Te.
If this is not the case, the processgoes on according to the same modalities with atertiary, quaternary or quinary tense, until a linkbetween the speaking time and the event ime willbe found.COMBIN ING THE NAIVE  ANDSYSTEMIC  APPROACHESThe view of grammar as a set of resources fromwhich to choose, and the focus on the social role oflanguage, are two of the reasons that supportsystemic grammar as a candidate formalism fordidactic utilization.
It is evident, in fact, that thenotion of choice, the concept on which suchgrammars are based, is more familiar to teachersand students than other abstract principles (e.g.,unification) which other formalisms rely upon.
Theemphasis on the functional organization of thelanguage - how it presents peakers with systemsof meaningful options as a basis forcommunication - makes systemic grammar inkeeping with modern approaches to languageteaching.
But there are other reasons that supportsuch a choice.
Among these we mention:the fact that the grammar of tense, the subset oflanguage that concerns us in the ET project, iswell documented in the systemic approachthrough papers by Halliday himself (Halliday,1976) and, from a computational point of view,by Matthiessen (1983, 1984);the interest shown by Halliday for the issuesrelated to teaching, and the fact that much of hiswriting has been aimed at this topic (see, forexample, Halliday, Mclntosh and Stevrens,1964);the fact that the systemic approach provides usnot only with a static description of linguisticstructures but, especially in the computationalapplication of Matthiessen, with a runnablemodel of language;the fact that it is possible to translate thesystemic approach into rigorously formal terms(Patten and Richie, 1987) and to express it into- 152  -a notation that is compatible with theformalisms, like functional unificationgrammar, currently used in computationallinguistics (Kasper, 1987).For all these reasons, the systemic approach asbeen judged particularly suitable to serve as theconceptual ground for an intelligent tutoringsystem devoted to the foreign language teaching.
Atthe best of our knowledge, this is the first time thata (subset of) a systemic grammar has been utilizedas part of an ITS.The most important problem that has been dealtwith in applying the systemic model to therepresentation f the grammatical knowledge for thenew Verb Generation expert has been that of theconstruction of the tense determination rules(choosers) capable of establishing in a cognitivelytransparent way (i.e., using as much as possible theideas and concepts of the naive approach) a tensecombination according to the assumptions ofseriality and opposition of the systemic approach.Adopting these assumptions led to a completechange of the original verb generation strategywhich was based on the direct choice, in a singlestep without iteration, of the verb tense accordingto a heterogeneous set of features taken intoaccount by the rule anw.cedents.Solving the problem of tense determinationaccording to the systemic approach requires findingthe solution to the following subproblems:how to choose the tense in each iteration step;- how to stop the iteration process.We have examined in a previous sectionMatthiessen's proposal.
His procr~dure for choosingthe tense in each step is based on successivecomparisons between the reference and thecomparison time, while the termination procedureis based on a match between the current comparisontime and the event ime.The burden of the whole process fallsprimarily on the identification, in each iterationstep, of the appropriate comparison time.
and thisis performed through a dialogue between thechoosers and an en,,ironment representing thesemantic and pragmatic factors influencing thechoice of the tense.
These factors are, however,hidden from the choosers which simply receivefrom the environment he answers to theirinquiries.
In other words, the choosers work byexploiting only the temporal relations between thedifferent imes, while the ~mantic and pragmaticfactors play a covert role in the identification of thecomparison time the choosers receive as ioput.According to our point of view, it is possibleto make explicit the criteria underlying thedetermination of the tense and build eognitivelyadequate choosers that utilize them directly.
In ournew approach, this is done by dividing the featuresused by the tense selection rules of the naivegrammar into two classes: the first class comprizesthose features which express the temporal relationamong the time intervals occurring in the exercisesentence; the second class comprizes the features ofmorphological, syntactic, semantic, and pragmaticinformation.
These two classes play a different rolein determining a tense combination.
Moreparticularly, the temporal features are utilized by afurst type of chooser which discriminates in eachiteration step between past vs. present vs. future(selection choosers).
The remaining features areutilized by a different category of choosers whosetask is to establish whether the tense selectionprocess should be iterated or not (terminationchoosers).
Differently from Matthiessen, however,the decision of the termination choosers is notbased on a simple matching procedure which checkswhether a link between the speaking time and theevent time has already been established.Thisdecision instead exploits a series of more complexfactors through which the criteria underlying thedetermination of a tense combination in a givenlanguage are made explicit.Let us clarify this new approach, whichintegrates the systemic treatment of tense with theuse of the features found in the naive grammars, byreconsidering, as an example, the exercisepresented in a previous ection:Yesterday,when I (arrive), Tom (talk) on thetelephone.The solution to this exercise requires the use of the(simple) past for the fhrst verb and the present inpast (or past continuous) for the second open item.While in the previous version of the VerbGeneration Expert these solutions were chosenthrough appropriate rules that directly establishedthe correct enses, according to the systemic theorythe tense determination process is iterative.
In otherwords, the first tense is determined by choosingpast for the primary tense and halting the process.The second tense is determined by choosing past asthe primary tense, iterating the selection process forthe secondary tense in which present is chosen, andthen stopping.In order to perform such a process, both theselection and termination choosers are needed.
Inour case, the following chooser applies:IF the clause describes a past event,the reference time is past,THEN set the primary tense to past.This chooser is very similar to the naive tenseselection rule utilized to establish that a given verbshould be conjugated into the simple past: it hasbeen obtained, in fact, by withdrawing from thatrule the condition concerning an aspectual feature(the event is completed).
The selection chooserswork thus by exploiting only the temporalfeatures, and the choice among past vs. present vs.future is performed by taking into account only thetemporal relations among the states and eventsdescribed in the sentence.
This chooser allows theidentification of past as the primary tense for boththe open items of the exercise.
As for the first- 153  -open item, after the primary tense has beenselected, a termination chooser can be applied:IF the primary tense is pastthe clause contains an explicit timeexpressionthe action described in the clause has beencompletedTtlEN stop.The termination choosers work by exploitingfeatures of morphological, syntactic, semantic, andpragmatic information.
While the tense selectionchoosers take into account he temporal aspects ofthe tense determination process, the terminationchoosers represent an interface between the tensesystem of a particular language and therelationships among the states or events describedin a sentence the speaker intends to convey throughthe usage of a given tense.In our case, the first condition determines theapplicability of the chooser (it represents one of thetermination choosers for the (simple) past), whilethe remaining conditions put forward two of thecriteria that establish when the simple pastrepresents a necessary and sufficient tensecombination for expressing a given meaning: i.e..when the action described in the sentence has beencompleted in the past at a definite time.No termination choosers are applicable to thesecond open item which therefore resorts to asecondary tense selection.
The following selectionchooser applies:IF the clause has a definite reference time,the event time is equal to or includes thereference timeTHEN set the secondary tense to present.As a result of the action performed by the chooser,the secondary tense is set to the present.
After thesecondary tense has been determined, the following,very simple, termination chooser applies:IF the primary tense is present,the secondary tense is pastTHEN stop.According to the systemic grammar of Englishtense, in fact, no further tenses are possible after acombination of present in past has been chosen.FUTURE DEVELOPMENTSIn the paper a new approach to the problem ofdetermining the tense combination for an Englishsentence has been proposed with integrates thetreatment of tense in a systemic grammar with thenaive approach in school grammars.
The systemictheory provides general assumptions (i.e.
three-tense opposition and seriality) which the tenseselection process relies upon, while the naivefeatures provide the criteria for terminating theselection process.
The integration of the naiveapproach into :a systemic framework can beevaluated according to three different perspectives:Computational.
How effective is the proposedtheory?
What is its coverage?
How general isit?- Pedagogical.
Is it possible to utilize such atheory to really teach the English verbs?
Howefficient is such an approach in comparisonwith the traditional one?- Psychological.
To which extent does the serialtheory of time mirror the real processes thatoccur in the mind of a speaker ?The ongoing research tries to answer thesequestions.
A series of computational experimentswith the new Verb Generation Expert, implementedin PROLOG on a MaclI, is under way with thegoal of establishing the reliability of the proposedapproach.
The construction of a new Tutor aimed atteaching the serial theory of time is underdevelopment.
Finally, a series of psychologicalexperiments concerning the cognitive validity ofthe systemic treatment of tense are being planned.REFERENCESAllen, J.F.
(1984) Towards a general theory ofaction and time.
Artificial Intelligence, 23, 123-154.Fum, D., Giangrandi, P. and Tasso, C.: TenseGeneration in an Intelligent Tutor for ForeignLanguage Teaching: Some issues in the design ofthe verb expert.
Proceedings of the 4th Conferenceof the European Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Manchester, pp.
124-129, Association for Computational Linguistics1989.Halliday, M.A.K.
(1976) The English VerbalGroup.
In: G.R.
Kress (ed.)
Halliday: System andFunction in Language.
Oxford: Oxford UniversityPressHalliday, M.A.K., Mclntosh A. and Strevrens,P.
(1964) The Linguistic Sciences and LanguageTeaching.
London: Longman.Kasper, R. (1987) Systemic Grammar andFunctional Unification Grammar.
InformationSciences Institute Research Report 87-179,University of Southern California, Marina del Rey,CA.Matthiessen, C. (1983) Choosing PrimaryTense in English.
Studies in Language 7, 369-429.Matthiessen, C. (1984) Choosing Tense inEnglish.
Information Sciences Institute ResearchReport 84-143, University of Southern California,Marina del Rey, CA.Patten, T. and Ritchie, G.: A Formal Model ofSystemic Grammar.
In: G. Kempen (ed.)
NaturalLanguage Generation.
Dordrecht, The Netherlands:Martinus Nijhoff Publ.- 154  -
