A. ZAMPOLLITowards Reusable Linquistic ResourcesAbstracti.
The paper will try to identify the various concurrent factors which, inthe last years, have contributed to the increasing attention paid to theissue of reusable l inguistic resources for natural language processing.The role of various major Organisations (EEC, Council of Europe, DARPA,NEH, etc.)
will be examined, taking into account the reasons which seemto have stimulated their active participation.
The recognition of the needof reusable l inguistic resources by various sectors of "automatedl inguistic data processing" will also be considered as a catalyzer for therecent trend towards the cooperation of various scientif ic and professionalAssociat ions (ACL, ALLC, ACH, etc.).2.
Various interpretations of the term "reusability" have been proposed.
Weshall consider the relationships and differences between:the feasibil ity of the uti l ization of existing repositories ofl inguistic information, as potential sources for the constructionof NLP Components;the feasibil ity of constructing new large linguistic knowledge bases,expl ic it ly designed for mult i functional uses, in various researchframeworks and development activities.In particular, we shall examine the connections between various core aspects ofthe construction of reusable l inguistic resources, andthe general problems of the "evaluation" in the field of naturallanguage processing, both at the general level of shareabil ity ofthe state-of-the-art knowledge, and at the level of specific NLPsystems or l inguistic data collection;the design of "standards" at the level of representation formalismsand of the identif ication of l inguistic units and descriptioncategories.3.
Examples will be taken by some of the various international projectsnowadays underway in the field of lexica (ET7, Acquilex, Multilex, Genelex,The lexical Consortium, etc.
), corpora (European Network of TextualCorpora, British National Corpus, Data Collection Initiative, etc.
), andstandards (Text Encoding Initiative).4.
The paper will review and compare some of the results already acquired,and will state some problems, both at the scientif ic and organizationallevel which, in the opinion of the author, are still to be solved, andrepresent major controversial issues.
It is expected that the round table,which will be held during the Conference with the participation of therepresentatives of some of those projects, will discuss these problems andindicate priorit ies for research, practicable ways towards their solution,and possible convergence of efforts.
