Identifying Topic and Focus by an Automatic ProcedureEva Haji~ov~ & Petr SgallInstitute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsCharles UniversityMalostransk6 n~trn.
25, 118 00 Praha 1Czech Republic(hajicova@cspguk11.bitnet, sgall@espgukl 1.bitnet)Hana SkonmalovliInstitute of Theoretical and Computational LinguisticsCharles UniversityCeletn~t 13, 110 00 Praha 1Czech Republic(skoumal@prahal.ff.curd.cs)AbstractAn algorithm for automaticidentification of topic and focus ofthe sentence ispresented, based ondependency syntax and usingwritten input, which is much moreambiguous than spoken utterance.1.
The dichotomy of topic and focus, based,in the Praguean Functional GenerativeDescription, on the scale of communicativedynamism (underlying word order), is relevantnot only for a possible placement of thesentence in a context, but also for its semanticinterpretation.The underlying word order differs from?
the surface one especially in that the verbstands moreto  the right than all itscomplementations belonging to the topic of thesentence (or to the local topic of the clauseheaded by the verb), and more to the left thanthose belonging to the focus.
Using adependency grammar (or, more or lessequivalently, a flat structure in a constituencybased grammar), we can illustrate this by thefollowing example, where (1') is a simplifiedunderlying representation of (1) on a readinganswering e.g.
the question Where has Charlesfound my pen ?
:(1) Charles has found your pen in a box lyingon the table.
(1') (Charles)Act ((you)App,a pen)Obj find.PelfCeox.Indef ((Rel)Act lie (table)L~.o,)c~o, )L~.~,In (1') every pair of parentheses ncompassesa dependent item (i.e.
corresponds to an edgeof the linearized ependency tree), the indicesof parentheses denote kinds of dependency(valency slots, or theta roles and adjuncts):Act stands for Actor (underlying Subject),Appurt for Appurtenance (Possessivity in abroader sense), Obj for Objective (underlying~Object), Loc for Locative, Gener for theGeneral Relationship (of an adjunct to itshead); the other indices denote values ofmorphological categories (Perfect,Indefiniteness) and of adverbial prepositions(in, on), Rel denotes a relative pronoun (here178deleted on the surface).
For more details ofthe descriptive framework used, see Sgall etal.
(1986, Chapters 2 and 3).An automatic identification of topic andfocus may use the input information on surfaceword order, on the dependency relationsbetween autosemantic lexical occurrences, onthe systemic ordering of kinds ofcomplementations (reflected by the underlyingorder of the items included in the focus), ondefiniteness, on lexical semantic properties ofwords and (if spoken input is used) on theposition of the intonation center (sentencestress).
The primary position of the intonationcenter is at the end of the sentence (where itneed not be phonetically realized by a specificstress), but also in another (secondary)position the intonation center marks the mostdynamic part of the sentence (focus proper),cf.
(2), where the underlying order is asindicated by (2'):(2) Charles has found your PEN in a box lyingon the table.
(2') (Charles) (box ((Rel) (table) lie)) find((you) pen)After several years of research in thisdomain, which has included psycholinguisticexperiments with Czech and Germansentences, as well as investigations with nativespeakers of English, we are convinced that inthe individual languages there exists a basicordering of the kinds of complementations ofevery verb (noun, adjective).
We assume thatthis ordering, called systemic ordering,directly determines the underlying word orderin the focus, so that if a sentence part Afollows another one, B, under systemicordering, then B is less dynamic than A (i.e.B precedes A in the underlying word order)only if B belongs to the topic.
In the topic partof the sentence the underlying word orderoften differs from systemic ordering.
Thesystemic ordering of some of the main kindsof complementations in English has thefollowing shape: Time - Actor- Addressee -Objective- Origin - Effect MannerDirectional(from) - Means - Directional(to) -Locative2.
An automatic identification of topic,focus and the degrees of communicativedynamism, discussed in a preliminary way byHaji6ova and Sgall (1985), can be based onthe following considerations: In languages witha high degree of "free" word order (as in mostSlavonic languages), a secondary position ofthe intonation center is frequent only in spokendialogues.
In technical texts (spoken orwritten) there is a strong tendency to arrangethe words so that the intonation center falls onthe last word of the sentence (where it neednot be phonetically manifested), of course withthe exception of enclitic words.A general procedure for determining thetopic-focus articulation in such languages canthen be formulated as follows:(i) All complementations (participants andadverbials, or arguments and adjuncts)preceding the verb are contextually bound.
Asfor the complementations following the verb,a "main rule" may be stated: the boundarybetween topic (to the left) and focus (to theright) can be drawn between any twoelements, provided that those belonging to thefocus are arranged in the surface word orderin accordance with systemic ordering of thekinds of complementations.
(ii) The verb is ambiguous as for itsposition in the topic or in the focus.
(iii) If a spoken utterance (with itsintonation center identified) is analyzed, thensimilar regularities hold for sentences withnormal intonation (intonation center at theend).
However, if a non-finai element carriesthe intonation center, then all thecomplementations standing after this elementare contextually bound; for the rest of thesentence, (i) and (ii) hold; the bearer of theintonation center belongs to the focus.In English the surface word order isdetermined by grammatical rules to a large179extent, so that intonation plays a more decisiverole than in the Slavonic languages.
Thewritten shape of the sentence does not sufficehere to determine the topic-focus articulationto such a degree as e.g.
in Czech.
The "mainrule" also applies, but otherwise only certainimportant regularities can be stated here on thebasis of word order and grammatical values(especially the articles and other determiners).In order to be able to reduce the ambiguityof the written shape of the English sentence asmuch as possible, it is also necessary to takeinto account certain semantic lues: especiallywith Locative and the Temporal modifications,it is important to distinguish between specificinformation (e.g.
on a nice September day, onOctober 22, 1991, seven months ago) anditems containing just a general setting (e.g.always) or being directly (as indexicals)determined from the utterance (here, today,this year).
The latter examples usually belongto the topic, the former ones typicallyoccurring in the focus.
As for the verb, it isimportant o have access to the verb of thepreceding utterance: if the main verb ofsentence n has the same meaning as (or ameaning included in) that of sentence n- 1, thenit belongs to the topic; also verbs with verygeneral exical meanings (such as be, have,happen, carry out, become) may be handled asbelonging to the topic.
Otherwise (i.e.
in theunmarked case), the verb generally belongs tothe focus.3.
In the output of the algorithmicprocedure completing the parsing of a writtenEnglish sentence, many ambiguities remain,but it is known that sentences (even in theirspoken shape) often are ambiguous as for theirtopic-focus articulation, so that it should beunderstood as a good result if the procedureidentifies such an ambiguity.
The algorithmhas been formulated as follows:(a) The input to our part of the parser isassumed to have passed through the precedingparts, by which the dependency structure ofthe sentence has been identified, so that alsothe underlying dependency relations (valencypositions) of the complementations (to thegoverning verb) are known.
(b) If the verb occupies the rightmostposition in the sentence and its subject is(ba) definite (including noun groups withthis, one of the, etc.
), then the verb belongs tothe focus getting the index f, and its subjectbelongs to the topic, which we denote by theindex t;(bb) indef'mite, then the subject is(indexed by) f and the verb is t. In either case,the other complementations are handledaccording to (cb) below.
(c) If the verb does not occupy therightmost position, then:(ca) the verb itself is understood as t, ifit has a very general lexical meaning (seeabove), or as f if its meaning is very specific,or else the verb is characterized asintermediate, i.e.
ambiguous, abbreviated as(t/0;(cb) the eomplementations preceding theverb are denoted as t, with the exception of anindefinite subject and of a specific (i.e.
neithergeneral nor highly indexical, see above)Temporal complementation; either of the lattertwo is characterized as t/f;(cc) to the right of the verb,(i) i f  there is a s ing lecomplementation, and this is a personalpronoun or another definite noun group, thenit is t or t/f, respectively;(ii) if the rightmost complementationis Temp or Loc, then if it is specific, it is fand otherwise it is t; if it is another kind ofcomplementation, then if it is indefinite, it isf and if definite, it is t/f;(iii) if there is such an ordered pairA,B to the right of the verb that falls to followsystemic ordering (see Section 2 and the "mainrule" above), and B has not been assigned theindex t according to (ii), then, for therightmost such pair, A belongs to the topic (t),and so do all the complementations between Aand the verb; the rightmost complementation180of the whole sentence is f (only a personalpronoun following another one is t/f in thisposition), all those standing between A and therightmost one are t/f;(iv) if (iii) does not apply then allremaining complementations to the right of theverb are t/f.
(d) If all the complementations have beendetermined as t, then(da) if the verb was t/f after point (ca)and the rightmost complementation is adefinite noun group, an indexical word orpronoun, then this rightmost element gets f(this result is abbreviated as t(f));(db) if (da) does not apply, then both therightmost element of the sentence and its verbget t/f.
(e) The remaining representationscontaining no f are discarded.
(f) The complementations with the index tare shifted to the left of the verb, those with f,to the right of it.Let us add that our algorithm onlydetermines the appurtenance of an element tothe topic or to the focus, but does not specifythe underlying word order within topic.
Whenimplemented (together with a simplifiedparser), the algorithm was checked with a setof sentences, and it yielded the expectedresults, cf.
the following examples (thenotation of which is simplified in that theindices characterizing the underlying structure(cf.
(1') above) are left out).
NOTE: Ourexamples concern written English sentences.
Inits present form, the algorithm handles onlythe verb and the parts of sentence immediatelydepending on it; deeper embedded items (esp.adjuncts of nouns) are left aside for the timebeing.Examples:(A) Charles found the pen in a box.The steps of the analysis (mostly in asimplified notation, without the grammaticalindices):after the application of(a): (Charles)Act find.Pret (pen.Indef)objCoox) .m(ca): Charles find.t/f pen box(cb): Charles.t find.t/f pen box(cc)(ii) Charles.t find.t/f pen box.f(iv) Charles.t find.t/f pen.t/f box.f(f) and resolution of the abbreviation t/f:Charles.t find.f pen.f box.f (e.g.answering: Why are the children sohappy ?
)Charles.t pen.t find.f box.f (e.g.answering: How did Charles get thepen?
)Charles.t find.t pen.f box.f (e.g.answering: What did Charles findwhere?
)Charles.t pen.t find.t box.f (e.g.answering: Where did Charles findthe pen ?
)(B) A Frenchman proved the theorem.
(a) (Frenchman.Indef)Aot prove (theorem)obi(ca) Frenchman prove.t/f theorem(cb) Frenchman.t prove.t/f theorem(cc)(i) Frenchman.t/f prove.t/f theorem, t/f(e),(f) prove.f Frenchman.f theorem.f(without opic)Frenchman.t prove.f theorem.f(e.g.
answering: What didFrenchmen achieve in thisfield?
)prove.t Frenchman.
f theorem, fFrenchman.
t prove.t theorem, ftheorem.t prove.f Frenchman.f(i.e.
pronounced A FrenchmanPROVED the theorem)Frenchman.t theorem.t prove.f(ditto)theorem.t prove.t Frenchman.f(e.g.
answering: Who provedthe theorem ?
)(C) At noon Mike awoke.
(a) (noon)Temp (Mike)Act awakeCoa) noon Mike.t awake, f(cb) noon.t/f Mike.t awake.f181(e),(f) Mike.t awake.f noon.fMike.t noon.t awake.f(D) Yesterday we arrived to Nice fromGrenoble.
(a) (yesterday)r,~, (we)Act arrive (Nice)m,.t,(Grenoble)D~.f,o,,(ca) yesterday we arrive.t/f Nice Grenoble(cb) yesterday.t we.t arrive.t/f NiceGrenoble(cc)(ii) yesterday.t we.t arrive.t/f NiceGrenoble.t/f(cc)(iii) yesterday.t we.t arrive.t/f Nice.tGrenoble.t/f(e),(f) yesterday.t we.t Nice.t arrive.fGrenoble.fyesterday.t we.t Nice.t arrive.tGrenoble.fyesterday.t we.t Nice.t Grenoble.tarrive.frE) Bob met her.
(a) (yesterday)r,~, (Bob)not meet (she)obi(ca) yesterday Bob meet.t/f she(cb) yesterday.t Bob.t meet.t/f she(cc)(i) yesterday.t Bob.t meet.t/f she.t(d) yesterday.t Bob.t meet.t/f she.t(f)(e),(f) yesterday.t Bob.t she.t meet.f (i.e.Yesterday Bob MET her)yesterday.t Bob.t meet.t she.f (i.e.Yesterday Bob met HER (ratherthan HIM) or similarly)References\[Haji~v~i and Sgall, 1985\] Eva Haji~Wi andPetr SgaU.
Towards an automaticidentification of topic and focus.Proceedings of the 2nd Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Geneva,263-267, 1985.\[Sgall, 1986\] Petr Sgall, Eva Haji~ov~i andJarmila Panevov~i.
The meaning of thesentence in its semantic and pragmaticaspects.
Ed.
by J. Mey.
Dordrecht:Reidel- Prague:Academia, 1986.182
