A Computat ional  Treatment ofSentence-Final  'then'She i la  G lasbeyCentre for Cognit ive ScienceEdinburgh University2 Buccleuch PlaceEdinburgh EH8 9LWUKAbst rac tWe describe a computational system whichparses discourses consisting of sequences ofsimple sentences.
These contain a rangeof temporal constructions, including timeadverbials, progressive aspect and variousaspectual classes.
In particular, the gram-mar generates the required readings, accor-ding to the theoretical nalysis of (Glasbey,forthcoming), for sentence-final 'then'.1 Sentence- f ina l  ' then 'It is possible to follow:(la) Emily climbed Ben Nevis in July.with(lb) Fiona climbed Snowdon then.This is interpreted to mean that each climb tookplace at some time within the July in question.
No-tice, however, that if we remove 'in July' from (la)to give:(lc) Emily climbed Ben Nevis.the sequence (lc,lb) becomes harder to interpret andsounds rather odd.
1 The difference is, of course, thatwe have removed 'in July' and there is no longer anexplicit reference to a "time".
We will call such anexplicitly mentioned time an explicit temporal  re-ferent (ETR).
Thus, sentence-final 'then' appears,i We are not concerned here with the rather marginalreading, available to some speakers, where what is con-veyed by (lc,lb) is that Fiona's climb follows Emily's.This corresponds tothe "updating" reading normally as-sociated with sentence-initial 'then'.on the basis of this and other examples, to requireexplicit mention of a time.
Being able to infer atime from the description of an event is clearly notenough.
We would expect o be able to infer readilyfrom (lc) that there was a time at which Emily'sclimb took place.
However, it appears that we can-not use sentence-final 'then' here to refer back to suchan inferred time.In order to make sense of the sequence (lc,lb)without he ETR, it seems we have to be able to seethe two events as connected in some way.
Consider:(lc) Emily climbed Ben Nevis.
(ld) She achieved her ambition then.which sounds fine, and:(2a) The children went to Wales.
(2b) Fiona climbed Snowdon then.which is also perfectly acceptable.
Note that in boththese cases the second event is readily seen as connec-ted to the firstgby the kind of discourse relation thathas often been called elaboration.
2Now consider:(3a) John went to France.
(3b) Bill Clinton became president then.This sequence sounds odd, presumably because it isdifficult to see any connection between the eventsdescribed in (3a) and (3b).
Consider also:(4a) John took the children to Aviemore.
(4b) Mary wrote her paper then.which sounds odd if we do not know who Mary is,2See, for example, (Mann and Thompson, 1987).158but sounds fine if we are told that John and Maryare the parents and John took the children off toAviemore to give Mary peace and quiet to write herpaper.
In other words, the sequence is acceptable ifwe can envisage a connection between the events.On the basis of these examples, it appears thatsentence-final 'then' either requires an ETR., or theremust be some kind of connection, such as an elabo-ration relation, between the two events.The picture is still incomplete, however.
The ex-amples considered so far have been accompl ish-ments  or ach ievements .
3 If the second sentenceof the sequence is a lexical stative or a progressive 4,sentence-final 'then' becomes acceptable ven whenthe first sentence contains no ETR and there is noobvious connection between the eventualities.
5For example, (lc,le) and (lc, l f)  are both perfectlyacceptable.
(lc) Emily climbed Ben Nevis.
(le) Fiona was a girl then.
(lf) Fiona was climbing Snowdon then.A detailed analysis of such sequences, which wascarried out in (Glasbey, forthcoming) and (Glasbey,ms1), reveals the importance of the notion of di-scourse background ing .
Provided that the se-quence can be interpreted in such a way that the se-cond eventuality is presented as backgrounded withrespect o the first, sentence-final 'then' is acceptableand the sequence (le,le), for example, conveys thatEmily's climb is temporally included in the state ofFiona's being a girl.
A similar notion in the litera-ture is that of the temporal overlap often conveyedwhen a stative (or progressive) follows a non-stative;see, for example, (Hinrichs, 1986).
We will show inSection 2 how the notion of discourse backgroundingcan be formalized in our theoretical framework.We have seen, too, that sentence-final 'then', in theabsence of an ETR, is acceptable in eases where thesecond eventuality can be seen as an e laborat ion  ofthe first.
This means that we have so far identifiedthree uses of sentence-final 'then':1.
The ETR use.2.
The elaboration use.3.
The background use.It would simplify matters if we could group (2) and(3) together--perhaps by saying that backgroundingis another way of expressing a connection betweentwo events.In our formal analysis, to be described shortly,which uses the situation theory/discourse r presen-tation theory (ST/DRT) framework of (Barwise andaWe use the terminology of (Vendler, 1967).4 Or an iterative state or habitual state, using the ter-minology of (Moens, 1987).5 We use this term to include events and states, as in(Bach, .1986).Cooper, forthcoming), we model eventualities as si-tuations.
We express the connection between even-tualities by means of the situation-theoretic relationpar t -o f  (or ~),  from (Barwise, 1989).
Par t -o f  isa relation 6 which holds between situations.
In or-der for sentence-final 'then' to be acceptable in theabsence of an ETR, the second eventuality must bepar t -o f  the first.
This intuitively covers the elabora-tion case, in that it makes sense to think, for exam-pie, of Fiona's climbing Snowdon as being part of thechildren's trip to Wales in (2a,2b).
But how does itwork in the backgrounding case?
We will explain inSection 2, when we have introduced some notation,how the par t -o f  analysis can be used to cover thiscase too.If we take the part=of  analysis to cover both thebackgrounding and elaboration eases, we can nowsay that there are two distinct uses of sentence-final'then'.
The first involves reference back to a pre-viously introduced ETR and is only possible if suchan explicit referent is present.
The second does notrefer to an explicit time, but rather conveys that thesecond eventuality is par t -o f  the first.
This may bethe case if the second sentence is stative or progres-sive.
Of course, progressives have often been ana-lysed as stative in the literature (for example, byVlach (1981)).
Part of the motivation given for theprogressive-as-stative analysis concerns facts abouttemporal overlap and updating.
We prefer to saythat an event described in the progressive is interpre-ted as backgrounded with respect o a previous (non-progressive) event in the discourse.
7 We thus keepseparate the notions of stativity and backgrounding,which enables us to explore the relationship betweenthe two concepts,  We adopt Smith's two-componenttheory of aspect (Smith, 1991) and regard progres-sive aspect as conveying an internal perspective orviewpoint on the described event.The par t -o f  relation between eventualities mayalso hold if the second eventuality can be read asan elaboration of the first.
Of course, world know-ledge will often be required to decide this.
Par t -o t i stherefore a relation between two eventualities whichcovers both the background and the elaboration"discourse relations.Thus we see that sentence-final 'then' can, if con-ditions are right, give rise to two readings.
Thisis shown in sequences where the conditions for ETR'then' and those for par t -o f  'then' are both fulfilled.For example:Sin our formal treatment we will in fact treat <!
as atype, but this is a technical detail.
We will continue torefer to the '<1 relation' rather than the '<1 type', as theformer conveys a clearer meaning.7Actually there are eases where a progressive doesnot convey backgrounding, but we will not discuss themhere.
They involve 'at the same time' and are discussedin ~Glasbey, ms1).
?See (Glasbey, ms1, Glasbey, ms2) for details.159(la) Emily climbed Ben Nevis in July.
(If) Fiona was climbing Snowdon then.
(la, lf) can either mean that Fiona's climb tookplace in July, or that it temporally included Emily'sclimb.
World knowledge or context may sometimesfavour one reading or the other.This analysis of sentence-final 'then' has impor-tant consequences for theories of temporal reference.It shows that, whatever theoretical framework is em-ployed, it is necessary to distinguish in some waybetween temporal discourse referents which are in-troduced into the discourse via explicit mention ofa time, and those which are introduced via the in-ference of a time from the mention of an event orstate.
We explMn below a means of making this di-stinction in an ST/DlZT framework, and describe acomputational implementation which embodies thedistinction, s2 Grammar  and  Implementat ionThe fragment contains sequences of sentences of atype similar to the ones given in Section 1.
It inclu-des sentence-final 'then', together with other tempo-ral adverbials uch as for-adverbials, frame adverbi-als (e.g, 'in July') and completive/n-adverbials (e.g.,'in two hours').
Sentence-initial 'then' and sentence-final 'at the time' and 'at the same time' are alsoincluded, although we do not discuss their analysishere.
There is a range of verbs, transitive and intran-sitive, with various aspectual characteristics, and arange of noun types including count nouns, mass no-uns, bare plurals, definite and indefinite NPs.
Pro-gressives are also included.
We are thus concernednot merely with the analysis of 'then' but with mat-ters of aspectual composition/modification and thedistribution of temporal adverbials.
Space does notpermit us to describe the full system in detail.
Wewill concentrate here on those parts of it that areparticularly relevant o the analysis of 'then'.As the system is concerned with temporal matters,we have not built into it a treatment of pronominalanaphora.
However, it is designed in such a way,as will shortly become clear, that it could be exten-ded without undue difficulty to include pronoun ana-phora, using a treatment based on that in (Johnsonand Klein, 1986).The system parses equences of sentences and pro-duces representations for the required readings forSWe discuss in (Glasbey, msl) how 'at the time' be-haves similarly to the part-of  use of 'then' (but conveysonly backgrounding and not elaboration), while 'at thesame time' appears to be acceptable in cases where thesecond eventuality is not a part of the first, i.e., where itcan be seen as forming a distinct or separate vent.
Theseare also included in the implemented grammar, but theirtreatment is not described here.sentence-final 'then'.
It is based on a situation-theoretic grammar developed in (Cooper, 1991) andits computational implementation ProSit (Cooper,msl).
ProSit is a definite clause grammar (DCG)with features.
It parses single sentences and con-structs syntactic and semantic representations ex-pressed in situation-theoretic erms.
We have ex-tended it firstly to deal with sentences containing arange of tense and aspect constructions which werenot present in Cooper's original fragment, and se-condly to allow the processing of discourse.
To en-able us to do the former, we have built aspectualcomposition into the grammar using a theoreticalapproach based upon (Krifka, 1991) and describedbelow.
In order to process discourse, we have em-ployed the technique known as 'threading', used byJohnson and Klein (1986), whereby discourse refe-rents are carried from left to right among the consti-tuents of a sentence, and from one sentence to thenext.Extended Kamp NotationThe grammar is expressed in a combinedDRT/situation theoretic formalism, employing theExtended Kamp Notation (EKN) developed in (Bar-wise and Cooper, forthcoming).
These authors use abox notation for situation-theoretic objects such asinfons, situations and propositions, based upon thegraphical notation of DRT (Kamp and Reyle, forth-coming).
However, in EKN the boxes directly repre-sent semantic objects, in contrast to DRT where thediscourse representation structures (DRSs) are ex-pressions of a language which require interpretationin a model.
Nevertheless, EKN boxes look ratherlike DRSs.
One important difference, however, isthat EKN boxes may contain situations.In situation theory, infons (which can be thoughtof as items of information or "possible facts") aresupported by situations, which are parts of the worldas individuated by agents.
An infon consists ofa relation 1?
with its argument roles filled by ob-jects which may be individuals, parameters or othersituation-theoretic objects.
Propositions in EKN in-clude objects of the form:slclimb(X,Y)which is the proposition that a situation S supportsan infon c l imb(X,Y) .
11 Situation-theoretic objectsmay have restrictions imposed on them.
A proposi-tion with restrictions i  shown in Figure 1.The box in Figure 1 denotes an object only if therestrictions are true, i.e., in the above case, if X is1?Relations are primitives in situation theory.llS, X and Y are parameters, denoted by capital lettersin situation theory.
A parameter is a partially-specifiedobject.160s--\]climb(X,Y)RInamed(X,'Emily')named(Y,'Ben Nevis')Figure 1: An EKN restricted proposition.rl -,~ S, r~ --+ X, r3 --+ Y, r4 -+ Rs lclimb(X,Y)alnamed(X,'Emily')named(Y,'Ben Nevis')Figure 2: An EKN proposition abstract or 'type'.anchored to an individual named 'Emily' and Y to anindividual named 'Ben Nevis'.
R is the resource si-tuation supporting information about the naming ofindividuals) 2 A proposition containing parametersis known as a parametric proposition.
It is possibleto abstract (simultaneously) over one or more para-meters of a parametric proposition to give a type  ofthe form shown in Figure 2.Once a parameter has been abstracted over, it ef-fectively "disappears" and is no longer present in thetype.
What remains is the "role" corresponding tothe abstracted parameter.
These roles may be index-ed however we choose (for example, by the naturalnumbers, by rl to r, as above, or by utterance situa-tions as in (Cooper, 1991)).Cooper (ms2), in the development of situation-theoretic DRT (STDRT), sees a DRS as equivalentto the situation-theoretic ype obtained by abstrac-ting over the parameters of a proposition.
The rolesof such a type are equivalent to DRT discourse refe-rents, and the infons correspond to the conditions ofthe "main" situationJ 3Process ing  o f  SentencesThe system parses both individual sentences and se-quences of sentences forming a discourse.
For a sen-tence such as:(lc) Emily climbed Ben Nevis.it produces a syntactic parse tree, together with asemantic representation i  the form of a DRS/typeas shown in Figure 3.
The DRS/type is shown inslightly simplified form here.
It will also contain in-12See (Cooper, forthcoming) for further explanation.lsOf course there are no precise DRT equivalents of thesituation and the restrictions.r, -->S, r2 --~X, rz -+ Y, r4 -+R, rs -+Ts lclimb(X,Y)RI Iinamed(X,'Emily')named(Y,'Ben Nevis')Slocc-time(S,T) ,\]iFigure 3: DRS/type for (lc).formation about aspectual class etc., as discussed be-low.Parsing of an individual sentence takes placein a top-down TM, left-to-right manner, causing aDRS/type like the one in Figure 3 to be graduallybuilt up.
The lexical entry for a verb introduces a"skeletal" (partially instantiated) type, and furtherinformation is added to this by the remaining con-stituents as parsing proceeds.Although there is no explicit mention of a "time"in (lc), the representation for this sentence (Fi-gure 3) contains a parameter T corresponding towhat we call the the "occurrence time" of the eventu-ality.
This is the total temporal extent of the even-tuality.
Although inclusion of the occurrence timeis not strictly necessary in the representation for asingle sentence with no ETR, it will be needed whenwe come to process discourse.
We will see shortlythat stative verbs do not introduce occurrence-timesinto the representations, whereas non-stative onesdo, unless they are presented with progressive as-pect.Now compare the representation produced for thesentence:(la) Emily climbed Ben Nevis in July.In this case, the system produces the DRS/type"shown in Figure 4.Here we have a second temporal parameter T', cor-responding to to the explicit temporal referent 'July'.Note that the role corresponding to this parameteris indexed by 'pr'.
This indicates that this time refe-rent, unlike the one corresponding to T, is phonolo-gically realised in the utterance.
This distinction willbe important when we come to process 'then'.
Herewe are exploiting the possibility afforded by situationtheory of being able to include information about theutterance in our semantic representations.
1514However, top-down processing is not essential to thegrammar, and a left-corner parser or chart parser couldbe used instead.tSWe have not taken the trouble here to mark non-161r, -+ S, r2 -+ X, ra -+ Y, r4 --~ R, r5 --~ T, \[r#,pr\] --~ T's_JR1named(X,'Emily')named(Y,'Ben Nevis')named(T','July')climb(X,Y)slocc-time(S,T) T C_ T'Figure 4: DRS/type for (la).The box:T \[- T'is another kind of EKN proposition--one that doesnot involve a situation.
It expresses the informationthat T and T' are of type E, where this is a typeof two times such that the second includes or equalsthe first.Process ing of  DiscourseNow let us consider the semantic representation fora discourse.
This consists of a proposition which isthe conjunction of the propositions introduced by theindividual sentences.
Abstraction is carried out overthe conjoined proposition as a whole, giving a list ofdiscourse referents/roles for the discourse processedup to a given point.Thus for (la, lg):(la) Emily climbed Ben Nevis in July.
(lg) Fiona climbed Snowdon.we get the representation shown in Figure 5.16Now let us consider the processing of discourse se-quences containing sentence-final 'then'.
Consider(la,lb):(la) Emily climbed Ben Nevis in July.
(lb) Fiona climbed Snowdon then.The system parses (la), followed by (lb) as far as'then'.
At this point in processing, the representa-tion built so far is that of Figure 5.
The processingtemporal discourse referents as phonologically realised,as this is not relevant o the analysis of 'then'--but itcould of course be done.16The representation for (la, lg) will also contain in-formation about possible discourse relations between thetwo eventualities.
We do not describe this feature of thesystem here except where it is relevant o 'then'.of 'then' causes the rules for ETR 'then' and par t -of  'then' to be invoked in turn.
The rule for ETR'then' causes the system to "look for" a temporal re-ferent indexed 'pr' in the list of discourse referentsintroduced by the processing of the discourse up tothis point.
This list of discourse referents i  threadedfrom one sentence to the next (and from NP to VPwithin a sentence).
In fact, what is threaded is notjust the discourse referents but the overall DRS/typefrom the processing of the discourse up to this point.The threading is achieved at discourse level by meansof the top-level rule of the grammar:dis(dis(SBar, Dis)),In, Out) -->sbar(SBar,Type .... ,In,Ned),dis(Dis,Ned,Out).The first argument to the predicate 'dis' is respon-sible for building the tree structure associated withthe parse.
The second and third arguments, the Pro-log variables 'In' and 'Out', enable threading of dis-course referents from the sentence just parsed to theremaining discourse.
The input 'In' to the proces-sing of sbar consists of the overall DRS/type builtup from processing the discourse up to this point.This includes a list of discourse referents generatedso far.
The grammar ules at sbar level and belowcause the overall DRS/type to be updated to give anew type 'Med', which is the input DRS/type to theprocessing of the remainder of the discourse.
The'Type' argument of sbar is the DRS/type obtainedfrom parsing that individual sentence.
The other ar-guments to sbar are not relevant o this discussionand have thus been omitted.Thus, at a given point in processing of discourse,the system can look for a temporal referent indexed'pr'.
Looking at Figure 5, we see that an appropriatetemporal referent indexed 'pr' is present.
The rulefor ETR 'then' therefore succeeds, and a propositionis introduced to the effect that T2 is temporally in-cluded in T', i.e.162rl -4 Si, r~ -4 X, r3 "--+ Y, 1"4 ---+ 1~1, r5 -+ T~, r6 -4 S~, r7 -4  U,  rs --+ V, r9 --+ R2, rl0 --).
T2, rn --> T'climb(X,Y)named(X/Emily')named(Y/Ben Nevis')named(T', ' July')s, 1occ-time(S,, Tl ) Ta E_ T'-v \ ]climb(U,V)~~ ed(U,'Daniel' ed(V,'Snowdon')occ-time(S2, T2)Figure 5: Slightly simplified representation for ( la , lg)  and for ( la , lb )  at the point of processing 'then'.163T2 E T'This proposition is added to the restrictions of thelower box of Figure 5, to give the completed repre-sentation for (la, lb), which is not shown here forreasons of space.
If there had been no such temporalreferent marked 'pr' present, the rule for ETR 'then'would have failed.Now consider the part-of  reading for 'then'.We saw earlier that this requires an appro-priate discourse relation between the two describedeventualities---one of ither backgrounding or ela-boration.
Testing for whether an elaboration re-lation is possible requires world knowledge, and wehave not attempted to build any of this into the sy-stem, although there appears to be no reason whythis could not be done.
The system in its presentform therefore checks only for the background in-stance of the part -of  relation.Backgrounding is possible if the second eventua-lity is either a state or if it is presented with pro-gressive viewpoint.
This means that, in order totest for backgrounding, the representations for indi-vidual sentences must contain information about theaspectual properties of the described eventualities--for example, whether an eventuality is a state or anon-state (event), and whether it is presented withsimple aspect (external viewpoint) or progressive as-pect (internal viewpoint).
It is widely known thatthe aspectual properties of a described eventualitydepend on certain properties of the verb 17 and alsoon other elements such as the referents of NP argu-ments.
For example, the event described by:(5) Daniel climbed a mountain.is a Vendler accomplishment.
Alternatively, we maycharacterise it in Krifka's terms as having the pro-perty +Q (quantized) or -CUM (non-cumulative),which are equivalent to the lack of a natural end-point or culmination.
However, the event describedby:(6) Daniel climbed mountains.is a Vendler activity, and in Krifka's terms has theproperty -Q/+CUM.
Here we see what Krifka de-scribes as a "mapping" from the properties of the NPobject is to the properties of the event.
The referentof 'a mountain' is+Q, and so is the event of (5).
Thereferent of 'mountains' is -Q,  and so is the event of(6).
Such mapping from the properties of the objectto the properties of the event only occurs for certainverbs, however--those where what Krifka calls the17E.g.
'basic aspectual type' in Moens' terms (Moens,1987) and semantic features in both Verkuyl's (1989) andKrifka's (1991) accounts.lSMore strictly the "patient", as it is thematic rolesand not grammatical roles that are important here.
"thematic relation" between the object and the eventhas an appropriate property.
One such property thatenables this mapping is what he calls gradual  pati-ent.
In such cases, there is an intuitive relationshipbetween the "progress" of the object and the pro-gress of the event.
For example, in an eating event,the object is gradually consumed, and in a writingevent, the object is gradually created.
Both 'eat' and'write', as well as 'climb' thus have thematic relati-ons with the property gradual  pat ient.
Drivingevents do not, on the other hand, exhibit his corre-spondence between the progress of the event and theprogress of the object.
Thus the thematic relationbetween object and event for 'drive' does not havethe gradual  pat ient  property, which explains why:(7) John drove the car.is +CUM/-Q even though 'the car' is -CUM/+Q.
19In our EKN account we encode Krifka's propertiesof thematic relations as types of situations and in-dividuals.
For example, the lexical entry for 'climb'includes the following information:ZS,Y \]climb(X,Y) GRAD-PATThe grammar rules then make reference to this in-formation.
For example, the rule:vbar( .
.
.
.  )
--> v( .
.
.
.
), np( .
.
.
.
)contains a procedure which evaluates the Q-value ofthe predicate (vbar) according to the following algo-rithm:If: The thematic relation between S and Y is of typeGRAD-PATThen: Set the Q-value of the predicate (vbar) to bethe same as that of YOtherwise: Set the Q-value of the predicate to -Q.The Q-value of the agent 2?
also affects that of thedescribed eventuality.
For example, the eventualitydescribed by:(8) Emily climbed the mountain.is +Q, whereas that described by:(9) People climbed the mountain.is -Q.
In (9), the -Q  value of the agent is transferredto the event.
In order to deal with such examples,the rules ( .
.
. )
--> r ip(.
.
. )
,  vp( .
.
.
)19A well-known test for the property +CUM/-Q ofpredicates i the ability to combine with a for-adverbial.2?Corresponding to the grammatical subject in theseactive sentences.164rl --~S, r~ -~X, r3 -~Rnamed(X,'Fiona )gi~l(x)l s lI STATEFigure 6: Representation for (le) at the point of pro-cessing 'then'.contains a similar algorithm to the one in the vbarrule.Thus the representation constructed by parsing asentence includes information about the aspectualproperties of the described eventuality.
These in-clude the features +/ -STATE and +/ -Q  as alreadydescribed, together with +/ -PROG depending onwhether or not progressive aspect is present, and+/ -PUNCT which distinguishes punctual and non-punctual events (corresponding to the difference bet-ween achievements and accomplishments).Let us now consider the representation from theprocessing of:(le) Fiona was a girl then.up to the point where 'then' is reached.
This is given(in slightly simplified form) in Figure 6.Now suppose we are processing (lc,le):(lc) Emily climbed Ben Nevis.
(le) Fiona was a girl then.The rule for par t -o f  'then' requires that the se-cond eventuality is either a state or it is describedwith progressive viewpoint.
The former is true inthis case, so the conditions for par t -o f  'then' aresatisfied.
The representation btained for (lc,le) isshown in Figure 7.The semant ics of  ~part-of 'What exactly does it mean for the par t -o f  (~) re-lation to hold between two eventualities?
The ideais that if $2 ~ $1, then any infon which is suppor-ted by $2 is also supported by $1.
In other words,$2 adds further information to S1, causing it to bemore fully specified.
Here we exploit the partialityof situation theory.
Situations may be only parti-ally specified: if we say that $1 supports ~, this doesnot tell us anything about what other informationS1 does or does not support.
It is thus possible fora later utterance to add further information about$1 and thereby specify it more fully.
If the first ut-terance tells us that $1 supports the infon ~r, and thesecond tells us that $2 supports the infon 7" and alsothat $2 <1 $1, then we know that $1 supports botha and v. This is straightforward enough for the ela-boration case.
We need to consider carefully what itmeans in a backgrounding case such as (la,le).According to our theoretical analysis, if an even-tuality is backgrounded then it does not introducean occurrence-time of its own.
Instead, the backgro-unded eventuality is of the same duration as that ofthe preceding event-- it "takes on" the time of thatevent.
21 Thus, in the representation f (lc,le) in Fi-gure 7, the backgrounded $2 has the same temporalextent as the event $1.
This amounts to claimingthat (le) describes only the part of the state thatcoincides with the preceding event.
Of course weknow that the state of Fiona's being a girl beganbefore and continues after Emily's cl imb--there is arelationship of temporal inclusion between the "to-tal duration" of the state and the event.
But we aresaying that those parts of the state that are beforeand after the event are not described but are infer-red from our world knowledge about the duration ofsuch states.Stative verbs are "natural backgrounders" in thatthey describe ventualities without making referenceto the beginning and end points of the eventuality.They naturally describe a situation which can rea-dily be seen as a temporal "slice" of a more prolon-ged situation.
For this reason, in the lexical entriesfor stative verbs in our grammar, there is no men-tion of the occurrence-time of the state.
Progressivesusually behave in a similar way.
When an event de-scribed with progressive viewpoint follows one withsimple (perfective) viewpoint, the relation betweenthem is normally one of backgrounding.
The effect ofprogressive viewpoint is to present he event from aninternal perspective.
An event described with inter-nal perspective is no longer temporally bounded-- itdoes not have an occurrence-time of its own.
Instead,its duration is that of the preceding event, just as inthe stative case.If we define two instances of the par t -o f  relation:.
<1 bg for the backgrounding case* _ el for the elaboration casewe can thus say:S2 ~ b s $1 ) T2 = Tzwhere T1,T2 are the temporal durations of $I and$2 respectively.
And:S~ <l el $1 -'--+ T2 ___ T1Thus, for the general <l relation:$2 <I $1 ) T2 C T121Evidence for this comes from an analysis of 'at thetime' and 'at the same time'.
See (Glasbey, ms2) fordetails.165r~ --+ $1, r2 ~ X, r3 --+ Y, r4 -~ R1, rs -> TI, r6 --~ $2, r7 --~ U, rs --~ R~climb(X,V)IR, II named(X,'Emily')named(Y,'Ben Nevis')Sl locc-time(S1, T,)rl(U)R2 Inamed(U,'Fiona')s2 ISTATE $2 _<3 SlFigure 7: Representation for (lc,le).Finally, let us consider (la,lf):(la) Emily climbed Ben Nevis in July.
(lf) Fiona was climbing Snowdon then.In this case, an ETR is present and the second sen-tence has progressive aspect.
This means that theconditions for both ETI~ 'then' and par t -o f  'then'are met.Our grammar will thus cause two represen-tations to be generated for (la, lf), corresponding tothe two readings that we identified in Section 1.3 Genera l  remarks3.1 Fur ther  Deve lopmentsThe system parses sequences of any length, keepingtrack of all the discourse referents/roles introducedso far.
Thus, as it stands at present, it will find atemporal referent for 'then', irrespective of how farback in the discourse that referent was introduced.It may be desirable to refine this in some way--forexample, to disallow anaphoric reference to an ETRthat is more than a certain "distance" back in thediscourse.
Also, the system at present finds onlythe most recently introduce temporal referent.
Thiscould easily be modified--for example, in order toallow it to produce a set of alternatives.
However, itappears that we would need to take discourse struc-ture into account here.3.2 Relat ion to other accounts of  temporalreferenceIt is important to consider how our analysis fits withother work on temporal reference in discourse, andhow readily our treatment of 'then' could be incorpo-rated into these accounts.
Kamp and Reyle (forth-coming) present a DRT fragment which deals withtemporal reference but does not include 'then'.
In(Glasbey, forthcoming) and (Glasbey, 1992) we pre-sent a modification of Kamp and Reyle's fragmentwhich incorporates our analysis of 'then'.
We makethe necessary distinction between what we call "ex-plicit" and "inferred" times by allowing a temporalreferent o be introduced only when an explicit tem-poral referent is present.
If there is no ETR, only anevent referent may be introduced.
This enables us toproduce the correct readings for 'then'.
We considerthe ST/DRT account given in the present paper tobe preferable, however, in that situation theory al-lows us to express information about the utterancein a way that traditional DRT does not.
This enablesus to make precisely the distinction we need betweenwhether or not a particular eferent was phonologi-cally realised in the utterance.Lascarides and Asher (1991) present an account oftemporal reference where discourse relations betweeneventualities are deduced by means of defeasible rea-soning.
Their account is expressed in a version of166DRT and preliminary investigations suggest hat itcould be extended to include 'then' in a similar wayto the Kamp and Reyle fragment.4 Conc lus ionWe have developed a computational gramlnar whichparses discourse consisting of sequences of simplesentences containing a range of tense and aspect con-structions.
In particular, it generates the requiredreadings for sentence-final 'then'.
We have also in-dicated how our analysis of 'then' could be incorpo-rated into some existing DRT accounts of temporalreference.
The system appears to be capable of va-rious refinements involving more detailed theories ofdiscourse structure, and as such may provide a basisfor development of more extensive systems for dis-course analysis.AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank Robin Cooper, Max Cresswell,Elisabet Engdahl, Martin Mellor and Marc Moensfor helpful advice and comments on this work.Re ferences\[Bach, 1986\] Emmon Bach.
The algebra of events.Linguistics and Philosophy, 9:5-16, 1986.\[Barwise, 1989\] Jon Barwise.
The Situation in Logic.CSLI, Stanford, California, 1989.\[Barwise and Cooper, forthcoming\] Jon Barwiseand Robin Cooper.
Extended Kamp Notation:a graphical notation for situation theory.
In P.Aczel, D. Israel, Y. Katagiri and S. Peters (eds.
)Situation Theory and its Applications, Vol.
3.CSLI, Stanford, California, 1993.\[Cooper, 1991\] Robin Cooper.
Three lectures on si-tuation theoretic grammar.
In Natural LanguageProcessing.
Proceedings of2nd Advanced Schoolin Artificial Intelligence, Guarda, Portugal, Oc-tober 8-12, 1990.
In series: Lecture Notes inArtificial Intelligence, Miguel Filgueiras (ed.
).Springer Verlag, Berlin, London, 1991.\[Cooper, forthcoming\] Robin Cooper.
Generalizedquantifiers and resource situations.
In P. Ac-zel, D. Israel, Y. Katagiri and S. Peters (eds.
)Situation Theory and its Applications, Vol.
3.CSLI, Stanford, California, 1993.\[Cooper, msl\] Robin Cooper.
Introduction to Situa-tion Semantics.
Edinburgh University, Depart-ment of AI and Centre for Cognitive Science.
Inpreparation.\[Cooper, ms2\] Robin Cooper.
Situation theoretic di-scourse representation theory.
Centre for Cogni-tive Science and Human Communication Rese-arch Centre, Edinburgh University, 1992.
In pre-paration.\[Glasbey, 1992\] Sheila Glasbey.
Sentence-final'then': a formal analysis.
Edinburgh ResearchPapers in Cognitive Science, Centre for Cogni-m,e Science, Edinburgh University, 1992.\[Glasbey, forthcoming\] Sheila Glasbey.
Events andtimes: the semantics of 'then'.
To appear in aforthcoming issue of Natural Language Seman-tics, 1993.\[Glasbey, msl\] Sheila Glasbey.
Event Structure inNatural Language Discourse.
PhD thesis, Edin-burgh University.
In preparation.\[Glasbey, ms2\] Sheila Glasbey.
A formal analysis of'the X' and 'the same X' in discourse.
Centrefor Cognitive Science, Edinburgh University.
Inpreparation.\[Hinrichs, 1986\] Erhard Hinrichs.
Temporal ana-phora in discourses of English.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, 9:63-82, 1986.\[Johnson and Klein, 1986\] Mark Johnson and EwanKlein.
Discourse, anaphora nd parsing.
In Pro-ceedings of the 11th COLING, 669-675, 1986.\[Kamp and Reyle, forthcoming\] Hans Kamp andUwe Reyle.
From Discourse to Logic.
KluwerAcademic Publishers, Dordrecht, 1993.\[Krifka, 1991\] Manfred Krifka.
Thematic relationsas links between nominal reference and tem-poral constitution.
In Ivan Sag and Anna Sa-bolcsi (eds.
), Lexical Matters, Chicago Univer-sity Press, 1991.\[Lascarides and Asher, 1991\] Alex Lascarides andNicholas Asher.
Discourse relations and com-monsense entailment.
In Hans Kamp (ed.
), De-fault Logics for Linguistic Analysis, Dyana De-liverable R2.5B, 1991.\[Mann and Thompson, 1987\] W.C. Mann and S.A.Thompson.
Rhetorical Structure Theory: Atheory of text organization.
Technical ReportRR/87/190, Information Sciences Institute, Ma-rina del Rey, California, 1987.\[Moens, 1987\] Marc Moens.
Tense, Aspect and Tem-poral Reference.
Unpublished Ph.D. thesis,Edinburgh University, 1987.\[Smith, 1991\] Carlota Smith.
The Parameter of As-pect.
Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht,1991.\[Vendler, 1967\] Zeno Vendler.
Verbs and times.
InLinguistics in Philosophy, Chapter 4, pages 97-121.
Cornell University Press, Ithaca, NY, 1967.\[Verkuyl, 1989\] Henk Verkuyl.
Aspectual classes andaspectual composition.
Linguistics and Philoso-phy, 12:39-94, 1989.\[Vlach, 1981\] Frank Vlach.
The semantics of theprogressive.
In P. Tedeschi and A. Zaenen (eds.
),Syntax and Semantics, Vol.14: Tense and As-pect.
Academic Press, New York, 1981.167
