Temporal Connectives in a Discourse ContextAlex Lascarides and .\]on Oberlander*Centre for Cognitive Science andHuman Communication Research Centre,University of Edinburgh2, Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh, EH8 9LWScotland, UKalex, j on@cogsci, ed.
ac .ukAbstractWe examine the role of temporal connec-tives in multi-sentence discourse.
In cer-tain contexts, sentences containing tempo-ral connectives that are equivalent in tem-porai structure can fail to be equivalent interms of discourse coherence.
We accountfor this by offering a novel, formal mech-anism for accommodating the presupposi-tions in temporal subordinate clauses.
Thismechanism encompasses both accommoda-tion by discourse aftachme,f and accom-modation by temporal addition.
As such,it offers a precise and systematic model ofinteractions between presupposed material,discourse context, and the reader's back-ground knowledge.
We show how the re-sults of accommodation help to determinea discou~e's coherence.1 IntroductionWe focus on aspects of the discourse behaviour ofthe temporal connectives before, after and when.
Inparticular, we note that discourse context can causesentences which are equivalent in temporal structureto fail to be equivalent in terms of discourse coher-ence.
We attempt to explain why context can havethis effect.
The explanation hinges on the differingpresuppositions posted by the differing connectives,and on the novel mechanism whereby backgroundknowledge determines how they are accommodatedinto the discourse Structure during interpretation.
*The support of the Science and Engineering ResearchCouncil through project number GR/G22077 is grate-fully acknowledged.
HCRC is supported by the Economicand Social Research Council.2 Temporal Equivalence andDiscourse IncoherenceFirst, then, consider the following actual sequence ofstates and events: in the UK in November 1992, someright-wing Tory backbench MPs were objecting togovernment policy over the treaty of Maastricht, andthreatened to vote against it; the Prime Minister, aMr John Major, offered them a variety of concessionsto win them back, in what the press termed a "charmoffensive"; the MPs responded by voting with thegovernment.
Call this course of events El.We can combine descriptions of the main eventu-alities in several ways, to reflect he right temporalstructure, but only some of these seem pragmaticallyappropriate: consider in particular these possible de-scriptions of El involving the connectives before, aftfer and tvhe.
:(1) The backbenchers were in revolt.
(2) a.
They were pacified after Major launcheda charm offensive.b.
?Major launched a charm offensive be-fore they were pacified.c.
They were pacified when Ma-jor launched a charm offensive.d.
?Major launched a charm offensive whenthey were pacified.There are at least two apparent anomalies, which re-quire explanation.
First, one might expect hat (2a)and (2b) would be temporally equivalent, both de-scribing El; why, then, does (2b) apparently ead todiscourse incoherence?
Secondly, it has been arguedthat A when B permits many possible temporal re-lationships between the eventualities denoted by Aand B (cf.
Moens and Steedman 1988); it's for thisreason that (2c) can be interpreted as denoting El;260but given this permissiveness, why is (2d) not as ac-ceptable as (2c)?3 The basic explanation: temporalpresuppositionsThe basic explanation for the inappropriateness of(2b) and (2d) is actually quite simple.
Sentences con-taining temporal connectives are presuppositional:the temporal clause introduces an eventuality thatmust be presupposed to have occurred, for the sen-tence as a whole to have a truth-value (cf.
Hein~imgki1972; Kartunnen 1973).
If the presupposed eventu-ality is not already in the reader's model of the dis-course context, she must add it: a process known asaccommodation (cf.
Lewis 1979).
Our view is thatthe discourse behaviour of temporal connectives ito be explained as follows.
In the discourse contextwhere we are describing El, and have uttered (1),the way presuppositions are accommodated dependson the reader's background knowledge; our inappro-priate discourses are precisely those where accom-modation ultimately leads to discourse incoherence.In particular, the presupposed eventuality from theywere pacified cannot be accommodated in the previ-ous context provided by (1), and must therefore begiven further treatment.A presuppositional explanation stands in contrastto the classical accounts of temporal structure builtupon Kamp's (1981) Discourse Representation The-ory (DRT) (cf.
Partee 1984; Hinrichs 1986).
On boththese accounts, subordinate clauses, such as thoseintroduced by temporal connectives, update the cur-rent reference time, and the main clause is then in-terpreted with respect o that reference time.
How-ever, no constraint is placed on the relationship be-tween the current reference time, and the new refer-ence time supplied by the subordinate clause.
Andso no anomaly will be detected in (2b): a relationof temporal progression between (1)'s reference timeand the new reference time for they were pacified willbe added to the DRS.
Thus, the incoherence of (2b)in the discourse context supplied by (1) remains un-explained.
This is only to be expected, since theconstruction ofdiscourse representation structures isyntax-driven, and does not attempt to capture theinteractions with world knowledge which seem rele-vant here.So, although it promises to go further, the ba-sic presuppositional explanation raises deeper ques-tions.
Why can't they were pacified be accommo-dated into the discourse context provided by (1)?What knowledge is it that leads to failure in thiscase, but success when we try to accommodate Ma-jor launched a charm offensive?
Intuitively, thereader's background knowledge affects accommoda-tion: world knowledge (WK) and pragmatic maximscan make accommodation impossible.
1 So to make1 Background knowledge is also essential to the expla-the basic explanation precise, we need a formal the-ory of how such knowledge constrains accommoda-tion.Van der Sandt and Geurts (1991) provide a formalmechanism for presupposition accommodation iDRT, but they provide only informal heuristics thatstipulate how background knowledge might affect heprocess.
We extend their ideas, by providing a for-mal specification ofthose heuristics.
We embed theiraccount of accommodation in DICE (Discourse andC_ommousense Entailment) (Lascarides and Asher1991, 1993; Lascarides et al1992).
DICE permits usto model the interactions between linguistic knowl-edge (LK) and WK which lead to the assignment ofdiscourse coherence relations between propositionsintroduced by text segments, and temporal-causalrelations between the eventualities they denote.
Theprimary proposal is that the accommodation of pre-suppositions from temporal subordinate clauses bemodelled as discourse attachment, so that accommo-dation is properly constrained by the reader's back-ground knowledge.
Let us call this basic idea accom-modation by discourse attachment (ADA).Although we contrasted presuppositional accountswith classical DRT approaches, there are clear in-stances where a temporal subordinate clause has nospecial rhetorical role in a discourse, but acts in-stead as a temporal adverb.
Such instances are lessproblematic for classical approaches than cases like(1,2b), but at the same time would pose problems foran account of temporal connectives that relied ex-clusively on ADA.
Consider texts (3,4a) and (3,4b),modified from Hamann (1989:83-84):(3) I'm not a useless driver.
(4) a. I could drive before you were born.b.
?You were born after I could drive.
(3,4a) and (3,4b) are temporally equivalent, but onlythe former is discourse coherent.
If ADA were thewhole story, then (3,4a) would be analysed as inco-herent, since no rhetorical connection can be locatedbetween the speaker's driving ability and the hearer'sbirth.
But (3,4a) is coherent, because the referenceto birth is simply functioning as an adverbial, ocat-ing the starting point of driving in the distant past.We will therefore suggest hat the primary pro-posal, where accommodation involves discourse at-tachment, must leave room for the possibility thatpresupposed eventualities can be directly added toa discourse context, without any discourse relationsbeing involved.
Let us call this latter idea accommo-dation by temporal addition (ATA).
Our treatment oftemporal connectives combines ADA and ATA; it thuseffectively deals with temporal subordinate clausesby bringing together the presuppositional accountnation of the presuppositions of the counterfactual usesof before, first observed by Heingtm~ki (1972:139).
Wehave no space to discuss these here, unfortunately.261and the classical DRT account.
We now briefly re-view the two basic ingredients of the account: Amechanism for presupposition accommodation, anda theory of discourse attachment.4 A mechan ism for  p resuppos i t ionaccommodat ionVan der Sandt and Geurts (1991) assume that pre-suppositions are anaphora with semantic content.They distinguish cases in which presuppositions are'cancelled' from those in which they are 'realised'.The cancelling of presuppositions is explained awayas binding of anaphora.
In other words, cancellationoccurs when there is an appropriate antecedent in thereader's model of the discourse context hat can beidentified with the presuppositional material in theclause currently being processed.
For example, insentence (5), the presupposition normally associatedwith his wife--which is that John has a wife--is can-celled by the conditional clause If John is married,which produces an antecedent in the reader's modelof the context o which his wife can be bound.
(5) " ' I f  John is married, then his wife will behappy.The realising of presuppositions is handled throughaccommodation.
Suppose there is no appropriate an-tecedent in the reader's model of the discourse con-text tO Which the presuppositional material can bebound.
In that case, the reader attempts to add thematerial to the discourse context, subject to  certainconstraints; for example, that the result of the addi-tion must be logically consistent.Sentences Containing presuppositions are repre-sented as a sentence DRS (or SEDRS) which is a triplecontaining: a set of discourse markers; a set of DRSconditions; and a (possibly empty) set of SEDRSs.The latter set demarcates those parts of the sentencethat are presupposed, and that must therefore bebound or accommodated to the preceding discoursecontext; the former sets are those parts of the sen-tence that aren't presupposed.
Binding is achievedthrough identifying the presupposed discourse refer-ents with those already in the context.
Accommoda-tion is achieved through adding the presuppositionalmaterial to part of the discourse context; this processis subject to certain informal heuristic constraints.Van der Sandt and Geurts provide a definition ofsubordination i volving SEDRSs which extends thatof traditional DRT.
A hierarchical structure is thusdefined, and an order of priority for dealing with pre-suppositions can then be specified.
The order is: trybinding at a lower level; binding at a higher level;accommodating at a higher level; accommodating ata lower level.5 A mechan ism for  d i scoursea t tachmentAs mentioned before, we wish to enrich van der Sandtand Geurts' process of accommodation by using ageneral theory of discourse attachment; by doing thiswe provide a formal specification of the constraintson accommodation imposed by the reader's back-ground knowledge.
The general theory of discourseattachment we will use is DICE.DXCE rests on a semantically-based theory of dis-course structure called Segmented DRT (SDRT) (of.Asher 1993).
SDRT starts with traditional VltSs (cf.Kamp 1981), but goes on to assume with Grosz andSidner (1986) that candidate discourses possess hi-erarchical structure, with units linked by discourserelations modelled after those proposed by Hobbs(1985) (cf.
also Mann and Thompson 1987, Schaand Polanyi 1988).
The resultant representationsare called segmented DRSs (or SDP.Ss).
Here, we usefive discourse relations: Narration, Background, Re-sult, Explanation and Elaboration.
The latter twoare subordinating relations, and the proposition in-troduced by the current sentence can attach only tothe previous constituent of the SDRS for the text sofar, or constituents it  elaborates or explains.SDRT defines those parts of an SDRS that are avail-able for attachment with new information via a dis-course relation.
DICE is a logical theory of discourseattachment, which explains how to infer which dis-course relation to use.
DICE specifies rules that rep-resent he reader's background knowledge, and theseinteract via the nonmonotonic logic CommonsenseEntailment (cE) proposed by Asher and Morreau(1991), to determine the discourse relations betweenpropositions introduced in a text, and the temporalrelations between the eventualities they describe.
Wehere indicate some plausible rules and the inferencepatterns validated by cE, and demonstrate how theyare involved in discourse attachment.The rules that capture WK and LK allow us to rea-son about the value of the update function (r, a,/3),meaning "the representation 7" of the text so far (ofwhich a is already a part) is to be updated withthe representation/3 of the current clause via a dis-course relation with c?'.
Let ea be a term referringto the main eventuality described by the clause a;and let revolt(b,e~) mean that this eventuality is abackbencher revolt.
As usual, we represent the de-feasible connective as a conditional >.
The followin~schemas are some rules for calculating implicatures:"?
Narration:(v, a,/3) > Narration(a,/3)?
Ax iom on  Narration:Narration(a,/3) --+ ea ~ e~2ca abbreviates me(a), which is formally defined inLascaxides and Asher (1993).
The indefeasible rules axenecessary; we have here omitted the D operators.262?
Resu l t :( r, a, \[3) A cause(co, ea ) > Result(a, \[3)?
Ax iom on Resu l t :Result(a, \[3) ~ ea -~ e~?
S ta tes  Over lap :  a(r, a, \[3) A state(e~) > overlap(e~, ea).
Background:(r, a, \[3) A overlap(e~, ca) > Background(a, \[3)?
Ax iom on Background:Background(a, \[3) ~ overlap(ca, e# )?
Revo l t  Law:revolt(b, el) A pacified(b, ei ) > -~overlap(el , ei)?
Charm Law:(1", a, \[3) A charlTl(a, b, el) A pacified(b, ei)> cause(el, ei)?
Causes  P recede  E f fec ts :cause(?i, el) --~ -e l  -~ e2Narration, Result and Background represent de-feasible LK, and the axioms on them indefeasible LK.In particular, Narration and its axiom let us say thatby default, the descriptive order of events matchestheir temporal order in interpretation.
The RevoltLaw and the Charm Law are slightly different kindsof knowledge.
The former is pure WE; normally anentity isn't revolting and pacified at the same time.The latter is a mixture of LK and WK; given thatthe clauses are discourse-related somehow, the eventsthey describe must normally be connected in sometemporal-causal relation; here, charmings normallystand in a causal relation to the state of pacification.That Causes Precede their Effects is indefeasible wE.We also assume that certain discourse relationsimpose various constraints on the topic structure ofthe discourse (el.
Asher 1993, Lascarides and Asher1993).
For example, Distinct Common Topic forNarration and Background states that if a and \[3form a narrative or background, then they must havea distinct, common (and perhaps implicit) topic 7:?
Distinct Common Topic for Narration andBackground:Narration(a, \[3) V Background(a,/3) ---*(=17)(3' # aA7 ?
\[3A7  aA7 ~\[3)cg supports the three patterns of nonmonotonicinference that are relevant here.
The first is De-feasible Modus Ponens: if one default rule has itsantecedent verified, then its consequent is defeasi-bly inferred.
The second is the Penguin Principle:if there are conflicting default rules that apply, andthe antecedent of one entails that of the other, thenthe consequent of the more specific rule (the formerone) is defeasibly inferred.
The third is the NixonDiamond: no conclusion is drawn if there are con-flicting default rules that apply whose antecedentsaren't logically related.SThere are two versions of this rule; the other coversthe cases where the second clause is stative.To see how the rules work, consider (6) and (7).
(6) The backbenchers were in revolt.
Majorlaunched a charm offensive.
(7) ?The backbenchers were in revolt.
They werepacified.In interpreting (6) we try to attach the second sen-tence to the first (so (a, a, \[3) holds, where a and\[3 are respectively the logical forms of the first andsecond clauses).
Two of our defensible laws apply:Narration and States Overlap.
They conflict, butStates Overlap is more specific.
So by the Pen-guin Principle, overlap(ea, e~) is inferred.
So Back-ground, which also conflicts with Narration, applies.By the Penguin Principle again, Background(a, \[3) isinferred, since Background is more specific2 Thus(6) is discourse coherent, in the precise sense that \[3can be attached to a with a discourse relation; wehave also found that the state of revolt overlappedwith the event of Mr Major's charm offensive.Now consider (7).
The appropriate knowledge basein the analysis of (7) satisfies States Overlap, the Re-volt Law and Narration.
The first two of these con-flict, but their antecedents aren't logically related.For note that unlike the Charm Law, the Revolt Lawdoes not require the clauses concerned to be dis-course connected somehow: being pacified and be-ing in revolt don't normally overlap, regardless ofwhether they are connected or not.
Because thereis conflict among defeasible rules with unrelated an-tecedents, a Nixon Diamond crystallises.
Conse-quently, no temporal or discourse relation can be in-ferred, and so no representation f (7) is constructed,leading to discourse incoherence.6 The proposal: accommodation bydiscourse attachmentThe basic explanation of the defectiveness of (ib,d)relied on the idea that temporal clauses are presup-posed; even though (ib) may be taken to refer tothe same temporal structure E1 as (is), it is prag-matically inappropriate.
In making this explanationmore precise, we wish to characterise presuppositionaccommodation as a process of discourse attachment;and failure to accommodate hus involves failure toattach, or, in other words, (local) discourse incoher-ence.
In the (1,2) examples, failure to attach at aparticular site can be fatal, as we will see shortly.More precisely: (i) Subordinate temporal clausesare presupposed.
(ii) If binding the presuppositionfails, then it must be accommodated.
(iii) If accom-modation is necessary, then it is assumed in the firstinstance that the proposition introduced by the sub-ordinate clause plays a rhetorical function in the dis-4Although the double application of the Penguin Prin-ciple, as in (6), is not valid in general, Lascarides andAsher (1993) show that for the particular type of caseconsidered here, CE validates it.263course, and so accommodation proceeds via discourseattachment.
The presupposition must be attached tothe discourse structure by a discourse relation, beforethe DRS of which it is a sub-part is attached.
(iv) Inthat case, the presupposition can be discourse relatedto: either prior discourse or the D~S correspondingto its matrix clause.
(v) If, on the other hand, ac-commodation via discourse attachment fails, thenthe assumption that the subordinate clause plays arhetorical role is defeated, and accommodation is at-tempted via the addition of the presupposed eventto the discourse context.
(vi) If the presuppositionis successfully dealt with, an attempt is then made todiscourse-relate the resulting constituents of the dis-course, using the reader's background knowledge.
5So, presuppositions can lead to incoherence in atleast four ways.
First, binding may be successful, butthe resultant constituents ofthe discourse may fail toattach together (as in (3,4b)).
Secondly, binding mayfail, while ADA is successful, and then the resultantconstituents of the discourse may fail to attach to-gether (as in (1,2b)).
Thirdly, binding and ADA mayfail, while ATA is successful--as in (3,4a)--but hen,in contrast o (3,4a), the resultant constituents mayfail to attach together.
Finally, binding and bothtypes of accommodation may fail.To reflect this process of interpreting temporalconnectives in a discourse context, we propose thatdiscourse attachment be split into four stages, ofwhich the third has three main parts:1.
We build the sentence DRS (or SEDRS) for thesentence containing the temporal connective.2.
We then calculate the temporal implicatures forthe SEDRS, that arise from the temporal connec-tive used, if there are any.3.
We then handle the presupposition: (a) We at-tempt to bind.
If that fails, (b) we attempt ac-commodation, by attempting discourse attach-ment between available SDRSS and the third sub-part of the SEDRS (which corresponds to the pre-supposed clause).
If the presupposition is boundor accommodated by discourse attachment, wego to (4).
But if (b) fails, then (c) we attemptaccommodation by adding the third sub-part ofthe SEDRS to an available SDRS, and if this ispossible, we go to (4).
If (c) fails, then we failon the grounds of incoherence.4.
Attempt discourse attachment between the cur-rent DRS and available SDRSs.
If attachment suc-ceeds, go to (1) with the next sentence.
If not,fail on the grounds of incoherence.5Points (iii) and (iv) correspond to ADA; point (v) toATA.7 Tempora l  in fo rmat ion  f romconnect ivesFirst of all, we register Hamann's (1989:76) obser-vation that before and after operate on points byplacing in the SEDRS the relevant precedence condi-tions on the points of time at which the eventualitiesare asserted to hold.
We fold states into this pictureby introducing a default 'inceptive' reading for tem-poral connectives; corm here varies over before andafter; an eventuality is incstate if it's inceptive.
Thatis, incstate(e6) is true only if the time discourse ref-erent t introduced in the DRS 6 is the time where e6starts.?
I ncept iveness  with Connect ives (lCl):= conn(~, 7 )^ state(e,) > incstate(e,)?
Incept iveness  with Connect ives (IC2):= conn( , ^ aa e(e ) > incstate(e )In words, 6 before/after 7 normally entails that 6 and7 are to be interpreted inceptively, if either of themare stative.It is suggested that when clauses, by contrast, donot implicate inceptiveness; indeed they do not haveany special temporal implicatures (cf.
Moens andSteedman 1988).
However, it can be argued thatwhen does have a causal implicature: it serves to re-strict the kinds of contingency relationships that canhold between eventualities; in particular, it defeasi-bly cuts off one possibility:?
No Cause: when(oh ~) > -.cause(ea, e~)8 Worked  examplesTo demonstrate how the approach works, we heretreat several types of cases involving presuppositionaccommodation: first, we deal with two pairs of caseswhere accommodation via discourse attachment suc-ceeds; in one pair the result is coherent, and inthe other it isn't.
Then we will deal with a casewhere binding and accommodation by discourse at-tachment fail, but accommodation by temporal ad-dition succeeds.
Finally, we will deal with a casewhere the presupposition is bound.
The coherentcases treated here are (1,2a) and (1,2c), involvingafter and when and (3,4a), involving before; the in-coherent cases are (1,25) and (1,2d), involving beforeand when, and (3,4b), involving after.8.1 Discourse  a t tachment  w i th  coherenceConsider text (1,2a):(1) The backbenchers were in revolt.
(2) a.
They were pacified after Major launcheda charm offensive.Let the logical representation of (1) he a, and theSEDRS for (2a) be ~a; note that the precedence con-dition ts -~ t2 is incorporated into the DRS for thematrix clause.264C a) \[el,tl\]\[ revolt(b, el),hold(ex,tl),tl -4 now\](jSa) ({e2, t2}, {pacified(b, e2), hold(e2, t2),t2 -4 now, ta -4 t2},({ca, t3}, {charm(a, b, es), hold( e3, ts ),t3 -4 now}, ?
))In the first stage of discourse attachment, we buildthe representation for/~a just given.
In the secondstage, we add its temporal implicatures.
By IC1, wecome to believe via Defeasible Modus Ponens thatthe state of pacification doesn't just hold at t2; itstarts there.In the third stage, we attempt o deal with thepresupposed part of/~,.
Let 7 be the presupposi-tional clause corresponding to ea, and 6 the matrixcorresponding to e2.
7 will fail to bind to a.
Can itattach?
We assume (or, a, 7), and so the line of rea-soning is exactly that used for (6), and a Backgroundrelation holds between the revolt and the charm of-fensive.
Once 7 has been attached, we move on tothe final stage of processing: we must attach the DRswhich remains when 7 has been deleted from it.
Callthis e.(e) \[e2, t~\]\[pacified(b, e2), hold(e2, t2), t2 -4 now,ts -4 t2\]The only open constituent in the SDRS built sofar is 7, because the relation in the SDRS isBackground(a, 7).
So we assume (r, 7, e), and findthat Narration, States Overlap and the Charm Lawapply.
States Overlap conflicts with what has al-ready been accepted via Ic1.
Furthermore, it con-flicts with the Charm Law, which is more specific.So, cause(e3, e~) and Narration(7, e) are inferred.
Bythe causal relation, the antecedent to Result is nowverified, and so Result(7, e) is also inferred.
So, inbrief, the first state functions as background to thepresupposed event, of which the second sentence'sstate is the result.Of the versions of (2) involving the connectivewhen, only one is coherent in the discourse context,and its analysis is very similar to that of (2a) justgiven.
(1) The backbenchers were in revolt.
(2) e. They were pacified when Ma-jor launched a charm offensive.Just as with (2a), the presupposed charm event issuccessfully accommodated with respect o the pre-ceding discourse, and the main clause state of paci-fication is then attached as its result.
There are twodifferences in the analysis: the semantics of whenplaces no conditions in the matrix clause ~ on thetemporal relation between e2 and ca; however, in thesecond stage of discourse attachment, further impli-catures are added (-~cause(e~,e3): the pacificationdid not cause the charming).
In spite of these tem-poral differences, the final discourse structure is thesame.8.2 D iscourse  a t tachment  w i thoutcoherenceNow, let us consider two cases where accommoda-tion doesn't ultimately deliver a coherent discourse.In both of these cases, accommodation fails with re-spect to the previous discourse context, but then suc-ceeds within the sentence.
Incoherence only followsbecause the resulting structure cannot finally be at-tached to the previous discourse context.First, take (1,2b).
(1) The backbenchers were in revolt.
(2) b.
?Major launched a charm offensive be-fore they were pacified.We have observed that (2b) denotes the same tem-poral structure as (2a), but that it seems incoherentin the context of (1).
Here, we provide one way toaccount for why the presupposition fails.The SEDRS corresponding to (1) is a and the SEDRSfor (25) is &.
(fib) ({Ca, t3}, { charm(a, b, as), hold(es, t3),ts -4 now, t3 -4 t2},({e2, t2}, {pacified(b, e2), hold(e2, t2),t2 -4 now}, 0))In the first stage of discourse attachment, we buildthe representation for /~b just given.
In the secondstage, we add its temporal implicatures.
By IC2, wecome to believe that the state of pacification doesn'tjust hold at t2; it starts there.In the third stage, we attempt o deal with thepresupposed part of /~b.
Let 7 be the presupposi-tional clause corresponding to e2 (the pacification),and 6 the matrix corresponding to ea (the charm-ing).
7 will fail to bind to a.
Can it attach?
Weassume (a, a, 7), and so the line of reasoning is ex-actly that used in (7), and so no discourse relationcan be found.Having failed to attach the presupposition at thehigher level, we attempt o attach it to its own ma-trix clause.
We assume (r, ~, "r), and find that Narra-tion, States Overlap and the Charm Law apply.
TheCharm Law's conclusion follows by the Penguin Prin-ciple, i.e., e3 causes e~; and by a further applicationof the principle, we conclude that a Result relationholds between ~ and 7.
Call the resultant SDRS e.At the final stage of processing, we must attach eto the prior discourse--a.
Which rules apply whenattaching e to a?
(7", a, e) is added to the reader's KS,and so Narration, States Overlap and the Revolt Lawall apply.
To properly discuss this case, we introducehere a further law that will apply: one which reflectsthe Gricean maxim 'Be Orderly'.
In Lascarides,Asher and Oberlander (1992:4-5), we presented arule that constrained orderly text with respect tocausation: the law reflected the intuition that oneshould not describe things in the order cause-effect-further causes of that effect, or effect-cause-further265effect of that cause.
Here, we offer a generalisa-tion of this law.
Suppose we define two eventuali-ties presented in a text as conceptually immediate if(a) one causes the other, and (b) the clauses thatdescribe them are discourse-related.
Then the prag-matic maxim below captures the intuition that noth-ing described elsewhere in a text should come be-tween two conceptually immediate vents.?
Conceptual Immediacy:(r, ~, fl) ^  ~ --* Result(v, 8) >-~(e~ -< ibd(e.) -< e6) ^~(e. r -~ fbd(ea) -4 e6)In words, Conceptual Immediacy states that if theconstituent fl is to be attached to a, where/3 containsResult(v, 8) (and so e~ causes e6), then the start ofea (i.e., ibd(ea)) and the end of ea (i.e., fbd(ea)),cannot come inbetween e~ and e6.Conceptual Immediacy has an impact on the anal-ysis of (2b), because it applies in the attachmentof e to a, together with the laws we have alreadymentioned.
Here, Conceptual Immediacy means thatnormally, the point where the revolt starts or finishescannot come in between the charm offensive and thepacification.
States Overlap means that normally,the revolt overlaps with the event structure describedin e. So States Overlap and Conceptual Immediacytogether say that normally, the revolt starts beforethe charm offensive, and continues until at least af-ter the pacification has started.
But this would meanthat the revolt and pacification overlap, and this con-tradicts the Revolt Law.
Thus Conceptual Immedi-acy and States Overlap on the one hand, and theRevolt Law on the other, are in irresolvable conflict,since the antecedents of these laws are unrelated.
Sono conclusions about discourse structure can be in-ferred, leading to incoherence.Under this analysis, (2b) is coherent in isolation,but incoherent in the context of (1).
The notionof orderliness in discourse plays a crucial role inthis explanation: eventualities that are causally con-nected preclude other eventualities described in thediscourse from intervening between them.The other case of incoherence involves the connec-tive when:(1) The backbenchers were in revolt.
(2) d. ?Major launched a charm offensive whenthey were pacified.The SEDRS corresponding to (1) is a, and in the firststage of processing, we build the SEDRS /~a as therepresentation f (2d):(&) ({es,ts}, {charm(., ~, e3), hold(es, t3),t3 -~ now},({e2, t2}, {pacified(b, e2), hold(e2, t2),t2 ~ now}, ~))In the second stage, we add its temporal implica-tures: by No Cause, -~cause(e3, e2) is added to thematrix clause 8.
This means that the charmingdidn't cause the pacification; apart from anythingelse, this implicature renders (2d) an inappropriatevehicle for a speaker who wished to describe thecourse of events E1 we have been discussing.In the third stage of processing, as with (2b), bothbinding and accommodating V to a fail, and so weassume (1", 6, 7).
The laws that apply are: Narration,States Overlap and the Charm Law.
The Charm Lawis the most specific, but its consequent is inconsistentwith what is already known concerning causal struc-ture.
Thus, States Overlap, which is the next mostspecific law, wins.
So we infer Background(8, 7)- Callthe resultant SDRS e. We must now assume (~, a, e).The rules that apply are: Narration, States Overlapand the Revolt Law.
Notice that in contrast o (2b),Conceptual Immediacy no longer applies, becausedoesn't entail Result(v, 8).
Given the temporal struc-ture entailed in e, the consequent of States Overlapwould entail that the revolt and pacification overlap.But the Revolt Law entails the opposite.
So a NixonDiamond crystallises and the discourse is incoherent.~,From examining (1,2b) and (1,2d), it should beapparent that managing to accommodate a presup-position by discourse attaching it to its matrix is notin itself sufficient for discourse coherence.
The SDRSformed must still be attached within the precedingdiscourse context.
It is this second attachment thatfails to occur in these cases.
Both Conceptual Imme-diacy and No Cause can yield discourse incoherence.In (2d), for example, if it weren't for No Cause, theCharm Law would have won during accommodationinstead of States Overlap.
This would have changedthe set of laws which apply when attaching e to a,leading to different inferences about the discourse.8.3 Tempora l  add i t ion  w i th  coherenceNow consider text (3,4a):(3) I'm not a useless driver.
(4) a. I could drive before you were born.The logical forms of the two sentences are respec-tively a and/~a:(or) \[el, tl\]\[-,useless-driver(a, el), hold(el, tl),tz -4 now\](#.)
({e2, t2}, {can-drive(a, e~), hold(e2, t2),t2 -< now, t2 -< tz},({ez, t3}, { born(b, e3), hold(es, tz),t3 -< now}, 0))Now, in the first stage of processing, we build theSEDRSS just given.
In the second stage, we add thetemporal implicatures, and find that being able todrive didn't just hold at t2, it started there.In the third stage, we deal with the presupposition.Call the third sub-part of the SEDRS ~?.
V can't bindto the context, and so we assume (a, a,7), and thelaws that apply are: Narration and States Overlap.But inferring Background via the Cascaded Penguin266Principle is blocked in this case by WK that con-flicts with Background's constraints on topic struc-ture: WK dictates that no distinct common topicfor a being able to drive and b being born can befound.
Similarly, Narration can't be inferred becauseit imposes the same constraints on topic structure asBackground.
These constraints on topic structureexplain why the discourse (8) is incoherent.
(8) ?I'm not a useless driver.
You were born.So discourse attachment of 7 to a fails.
Conse-quently, we then attempt accommodation by attach-ing 7 to 6 with a discourse relation.
This fails for sim-ilar reasons: a common topic can't be found.
There-fore, since accommodation via discourse attachmenthas failed, we attempt accommodation via temporaladdition.
In effect, we try to interpret he subordi-nate clause as a temporal adverb, like before 1962.We first try to add the discourse referents in 7 andtheir conditions to a: this succeeds, since there areno logical inconsistencies.
The result is the followingDRS ~:(,) \[el, tl, t \]\[-  seZess-dri er(., el)hold(el,tl),tl -~ now,born(b, e3), hold(e3, t3),t3 -~ now\]Having successfully accommodated, we proceed tothe fourth stage of processing: we attempt o attachthe matrix clause 6 to e:(6) \[e2, t2\]\[can-drive(a, e2), hold(e2, t2),t2 -4 now\]The rules that apply are: Narration and States Over-lap.
By the Cascaded Penguin Principle, Backgroundis inferred.
Note that this time, a common topic canbe found between the constituents: it is the drivingability of a.In this example, there was failure to accommodatevia discourse attachment, but the text was eventu-ally predicted to be coherent.
This contrasts with(1,2b), where accommodation via discourse attach-ment was successful, but the text was eventually pre-dicted to be incoherent.
This indicates that successin the early stages of processing doesn't guaranteecoherence; nor does failure in the first attempt oaccommodate guarantee incoherence.8.4 B ind ing  wi th  incoherenceWe finally provide an example where the presuppo-sition is bound, and the resultant discourse is inco-herent:(3) I 'm not a useless driver.
(4) b.
?You were born after I could drive.The SEDRS representing (3) is a above, and the SE-DRS representing (4b) is  :(/3b) ({e3, t3}, { born(b, e3), hold(e3, t3),t3 "~ now, t3 -~ t2},({e2, t2}, {can-drive(a, e~), hold(e2, t2),t2 0))In the first stage of processing, we build the SEDRSsjust given.
In the second stage, we add the tempo-ral implicatures, and find that being able to drivedoesn't just hold at t2, it starts there.In the third stage, we deal with the presupposition.We assume here that the Identify Drive Law formspart of the reader's KS: it captures the intuition thatnot being a useless driver and being able to drive areone and the same eventuality:?
Identify Drive Law:-useless-driver(a, e) ~ can-drive(a, e)Because of the Identify Drive Law, we can bind thepresupposed material 7 to a.
So we then go onto thefourth Stage of processing, and attempt o attach thematrix clause 6--which represents you were born--to a.
By the constraints on topic structure imposedby Background and Narration, attachment of 6 toa fails, for just the same reasons as it did before.Here, in contrast o (3,4a), the violation of the topicconstraints i fatal, because you were born is a mainclause.
It cannot be reinterpreted as a temporal ad-verbial when discourse attachment has failed.9 ConclusionBy concentrating on a simple but pervasive phe-nomenon concerning the interpretation of temporalconnectives, we have extended a formal mechanismto show how interacting discourse context, WK andLK determine which presupposed eventualities can beaccommodated.
The way in which accommodation ishandled depends on the content of the presupposedclause, and we pointed to some interesting behaviourin this connection.On the one hand, when accommodation by dis-course attachment fails, accommodation by tempo-ral addition can still succeed.
In such cases, a purelytemporal reading of the subordinate clause is forced,and this leads to very weak coherence constraints forthe discourse as a whole.
These weak constraintsare akin to those in classical treatments of temporalconnectives in DRT; however, our analysis still dif-fers somewhat, eschewing as it does reference times.On the other hand, even when accommodation bydiscourse attachment succeeds, there is no guaranteethat the text is coherent; presupposition accommo-dation is a necessary, but insufficient, part of theprocess of discourse structure retreival.References\[Asher, 1993\] Nicholas Asher.
Reference to AbstractObjects in English: A Philosophical Semantics forNatural Language Metaphysics.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers.\[Asher and Morreau, 1991\]Nicholas Asher and Michael Morreau.
CommonSense Entailment: A Modal Theory of Nonmono-tonic Reasoning.
Proceedings of the 12th Interna-267tional Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Sydney Australia, August 1991.\[Grosz and Sidner, 1986\] Barbara Grosz and Can-dace Sidner.
Attention, Intentions, and the Struc-ture of Discourse.
Computational Linguistics, 12:175-204.\[Hamann, 1989\] Cornelia Hamann.
English Tempo-ral Clauses in a Reference Frame Model.
In Schopf,A.
(ed.)
Essays on Tensing in English, Volume II:Time, Text and Modality, pp31-153.\[Hein~imiiki, 1972\] Orvokki Hein~im~iki.
"Before".Papers from ~he Eighth Regional Meeting of theChicago Linguistics Society, 139-151.
Universityof Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.\[Hinrichs, 1986\]Erhard Hinrichs Temporal anaphora in discoursesof English.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 9, 63-82.\[Hobbs, 1985\] Jerry R. Hobbs.
On the Coherenceand Structure of Discourse.
Report No.
CSLI-85-37, Center for the Study of Language and Infor-mation, October, 1985.\[Kartunnen, 1973\] Lauri Kartunnen.
Presupposi-tions of Compound Sentences.
Linguistic lnquiry,4, 169-193.\[Kamp, 1981\] Hans Kamp.
A theory of truth and se-mantic representation.
In Groenendijk, J.
A. G.,Janssen, T. M. V. and Stokhof, M. B. J.
(eds.)
For-mal Methods in the Study of Language 136, 277-322.
Amsterdam: Mathematical Centre.
Tracts.\[Lascarides and Asher, 1991\] Alex Lascarides andNicholas Asher.
Discourse Relations and Defea-sible Knowledge.
Proceedings of the 29th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, 55-63, Berkeley, Ca, June 1991.\[Lascarides and Asher, 1993\] Alex Lascarides andNicholas Asher.
Temporal Interpretation, Dis-course Relations and Common Sense Entailment.To appear in Linguistics and Philosophy.\[Lascarides, Asher and Oberlander, 1992\] Alex Las-carides, Nicholas Asher and Jon Oberlander.
In-ferring Discourse Relations in Context.
Proceed-ings of the 30th Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computation Linguistics, ppl-8, Newark,Delaware, June 1992.\[Lewis, 1979\] David Lewis.
Score-keeping in a Lan-guage Game.
Journal of Philosophical Logic, 8,339-359.\[Mann and Thompson, 1987\] William Mann andSandra Thompson.
Rhetorical Structure Theory:A theory of text organisation.
Technical Report\]sI/Rs-87-190, USC/ISI, June 1987.\[Moens and Steedman, 1988\]Marc Moens and Mark J. Steedman.
Temporalontology and temporal reference.
ComputationalLinguistics, 14, 15-28.\[Partee, 1984\] Barbara Partee.
Nominal and tem-poral anaphora.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 7,243-286.\[Van der Sandt and Geurts, 1991\]Rob van der Sandt and Bart Geurts.
Presuppo-sition, Anaphora, and Lexieal Content.
IWBS Re-port No.
185, IBM Deutschland GmbH, Stuttgart,August, 1991.\[Scha nd Polanyi, 1988\] Remko Scha and LiviaPolanyi.
An augmented context free grammar fordiscourse.
Proceedings of the 12th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics and the24th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, pp573-577, Budapest Hun-gary, 22-27 August 1988.268
