Long Sentence Analys is  by Domain-Speci f ic  Pat tern  GrammarShinichi Doi, Kazunori Muraki, Shinichiro Kamei & Kiyoshi YamabanaNEC Corp. C&C Information Technology Research Laboratories4-1-1, Miyazaki, Miyamae-ku, Kawasaki 216, JAPAN1 Long Sentence AnalysisWe propose a method for analyzing long complexand compound sentences that utilizes global struc-ture analysis with domain-specific pattern grammar.Previously, long sentence analysis with global in-formation used the following methods: two-levelanalysis--global structure analysis of long sentenceswith domain-independent function words and pars-ing of their constituents\[Doi et al, 1991\], and pat-tern matching--adaptation of domain-specific xedpattern to input sentences.
By utilizing domain-dependent information the latter method could an-alyze long sentences of that domain.
But since thematching is made only on the surface the sentenceisn't analyzed well when patterns appear ecursively.2 Domain-Specific Pattern GrammarOur method analyzes the global structure of longsentences by using three knowledge-bases: domain-specific patterns that can be described as a phrasestructure grammar, a list of keywords that denoteconstituents of the patterns, and a pure basic gram-mar.
An input sentence is initially parsed and di-vided into its constituents with these knowledge-bases, and then each constituent is parsed with ageneral grammar.
Each constituent must be guaran-teed uniformity by parsing with pure basic grammar.To obtain a pattern grammar of Japanese longsentences we analyzed the structures of about 750long sentences from the leads of news articles in aJapanese newspaper, Asahi Shinbun, and identifiedseveral fixed global patterns.
An example of pat-tern grammar is shown in Fig.
1.
Using the patterngrammar and keyword list(a-c), the global structureof the sentence(d) was analyzed as f).3 ConclusionOur method takes advantage ofboth two-level anal-ysis and pattern matching, and can deal with theirregular appearance of patterns including recursivepatterns, ellipsis of constituents and patterns thatappear in only part of the sentence.We have developed a Japanese lead analyzing sys-tem using a pattern grammar.
We used this sys-tem with several 80-200 word Japanese leads such asthe example sentence in Fig.
1., and obtained correctglobal structures and syntactic trees for them.References\[Doi et al, 1991\] Shinichi Doi, Kazunori Muraki,and Shinichiro Kamei.
Lexical Discourse Gram-mar and its Application for Decision of Global De-pendency (II).
In Proceedings WGNLC of the IE-ICE, NLC91-29(PRU91-64), 1991.
(in Japanese)Fig.
1 ExRmple of Pat tern  Grammar  and Keywords in Japanesea) pat tern  grammar  (p. denotes phrase)statement report pattern:~ subject p. + date p. + situation p. + theme p. + direct statement p. + indirect statement p.b) keyword list for a) (see e))c) pure basic grRmmar noun p. ::~ adnominal p. + noun p., verb p. ::~ adverbial p. + verb p.d) example sentence of Japanese leadNakasone-shushou-wa 17-nichi, shuuin-honkaigi-de okonawareta kakutou-daihyou-shitsumon-deno touben-de,Kokka-himitsu-houan-nitsuite "kokueki-wo mamoru-tame-nimo nanrakano datouna sochi-ga hitsuyou"-tonobe, jimintou-giin-niyoru houan-sai-teishutsu-ni maemuki-no shisei-wo shimeshita.e) keywords in d) (mk.
pp.
denotes marking postposition)-wa(subject mk.
pp.)
/ 17-nichi(day), / touben(answer)-de(location mk.
pp.
), / -nitsuite(theme k.
pp.
)/ -to(quotation i k.
pp.)
nobe(said), / shisei(attitude)-wo(object mk.
pp.)
shirneshita(showed).f) global s t ructure  of d)subject p. : Nakasone-shushou-wa (Prime Minister Nakasone)date p. : 17-nichi, (on 17th.
)situation p. : shuuin-honkaigi-de okonawareta kakutou-daihyou-shitsumon-deno touben-de, (in the answerto the party leaders' interpellations at the plenary session of the House of Representatives)theme p. : Kokka-hirnitsu-houan-nitsuite (about he National-Secret-Bill)direct : "kokueki-wo mamoru-tame-nimo nanrakano datouna sochi-ga hitsuyou"-to nobe,statement p. (said "some appropriate measures are needed to defend the national interest")indirect : jimintou-giin-niyoru houan-sai-teishutsu-ni maemuki-no shisei-wo shimashita.statement p. (showed a positive attitude toward re-introducing of the bill by the Liberal Democrats)466
