DEL IMITEDNESS AND TRAJECTORY-OF-MOTION EVENTS *M ichae l  Whi teDepar tment  of Computer  and Informat ion ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhi ladelphia,  PA, USAmwhit e@linc, cis.
upenn, eduAbst rac tThe first part of the paper develops a novel,sortally-based approach to the problem ofaspectual composition.
The account is ar-gued to be superior on both empirical andcomputational grounds to previous eman-tic approaches relying on referential homo-geneity tests.
While the account is re-stricted to manner-of-motion verbs, it doescover their interaction with mass terms,amount phrases, locative PPs, and dis-tance, frequency, and temporal modifiers.The second part of the paper describes animplemented system based on the theoret-ical treatment which determines whethera specified sequence of events is or is notpossible under varying situationally sup-plied constraints, given certain restrictiveand simplifying assumptions.
Briefly, thesystem extracts a set of constraint equa-tions from the derived logical forms andsolves them according to a best-value met-ric.
Three particular limitations of the sys-tem and possible ways of addressing themare discussed in the conclusion.1 In t roduct ionEver since Verkuyl (1972) first observed that the as-pectual class of a sentence depends not only on itsmain verb (as in Vendler, 1967) but also on its verbal*The author gratefully acknowledges the helpful com-ments of Jeff Siskind, Mark Steedman, Matthew Stone,and Christy Doran, as well as the support of DARPAN00014-90-J-1863, ARO DAAL03-89-C-0031, NSF IRI90-16592, Ben Franklin 91S.3078C-1.arguments and modifiers, numerous researchers haveproposed accounts of this, the problem of ASPEC-TUAL COMPOSITION.
Of  course, the ultimate aimsof these studies have never been to determine theaspectual class of an expression per se - -  clearly atheory-internal notion - -  but rather to predict theoutcomes of certain aspect-related syntactic and se-mantic tests (cf.
Dowty, 1979, Verkuyl, 1989).
Like-wise, the present paper focuses on these empiricalissues, in particular the compatibility of a given ex-pression with for- and in-adverbials and the result-ing existential nd downward entailments.
As an ex-ample of this temporal adverbial test, consider (1)below:(1) (a) John drank beer * in ten minutes.
( * fo r}  (b) 3ohn drank a pint of beer in tenminutes.In example (1) we may observe that the appropriatetemporal adverbial isdetermined by the object of theverb drink - -  at least as long as we exclude from con-sideration iterative, partitive, and other non-basicreadings (cf.
Moens and Steedman, 1988).Central to previous approaches to aspectual com-position have been attempts to explain the puzzlingparallels between count noun phrases and telic sen-tences on the one hand, which have inherently "de-limited" extents, and mass nouns, bare plurals, andatelic sentences on the other, which do not.
In con-nection with this intuitive notion of delimitedness, ithas often been observed that mass terms (e.g.
beer)and bare plurals (e.g.
margaritas) are similar toatelic expressions (e.g.
John drink beer / margari-tas), insofar as they share the property of REFER-ENTIAL HOMOGENEITY (reviewed below).
This sets412them apart from count noun phrases (eg.
a pint ofbeer) and teiic expressions (e.g.
John drink a pint ofbeer), which do not generally do so.Observations such as these led Dowty (1979), Hin-richs (1985) and Krifka (1989, 1992) to incorporatevarious tests for referential homogeneity into theirlogical forms in order to account for the temporaladverbial variations.
I argue against his move hereby showing that it engenders a problem which I shallcall THE ACCIDENTAL REFERENTIAL HOMOGENEITYPROBLEM (defined below).
As an alternative, I de-velop in the first part of the paper a novel, sortally-based approach to aspectual composition.
The ac-count is argued to be superior not only on empiricalgrounds, insofar as it dissolves this particular prob-lem, but also on computational grounds, insofar as itjustifies employing a feature-based approach.
Whilethe account is restricted to manner-of-motion verbs(e.g.
run), it does cover their interaction with massterms, amount phrases, distance and locative modi-fiers, and temporal adverbials.In the second part of the paper, I describe animplemented system based on the theoretical treat-ment which determines whether a specified sequenceof events is or is not possible under varying sit-uationally supplied constraints, given certain re-strictive and simplifying assumptions.
These as-sumptions include requiring the sentences to spec-ify trajectory-of-motion events (e.g.
Guy joggingfrom the inn to the bar) which are modeled as con-tinuous constant rate changes of location in onedimension.
Briefly, the system extracts a set ofconstraint equations from the derived logical formsand solves them according to a best-value metric.The system is implemented in SCREAMER, Siskindand McAllester's (1993) portable, efficient versionof nondeterministic Common Lisp augmented witha general-purpose constraint satisfaction package.Three particular limitations of the system and pos-sible ways of addressing them are discussed in theconclusion.2 The  Acc identa l  Re ferent ia lHomogene i ty  P rob lemREFERENTIAL HOMOGENEITY is the conjunction ofthe properties of REFERENTIAL DIVISIVENESS andREFERENTIAL CUMULATIVITY.
An expression refersdivisively if whenever it applies to a given entity, italso applies to all subentities of that entity, downto a certain limit in size.
For example, if there is amaterial entity to which beer applies, then beer alsoapplies to all its (macroscopic) subparts; the same isclearly not true of a pint of beer.
Cumulativity worksin the other direction: an expression refers cumula-tively if whenever it applies to two entities, it also'applies to their collection.
Here again, if we collecttwo entities to which beer applies then we get some-thing to which beer also applies; in contrast, if wecollect two entities to which a pint of beer applies,we get an entity to which two pints of beer appliesinstead.
Similarly, we may observe that the atelicexpression John drink beer refers homogeneously tosituational entities (eventualities), unlike the telic ex-pression John drink a pint of beer.With these properties in mind, THE ACCIDEN-TAL REFERENTIAL HOMOGENEITY PROBLEM may bestated as follows: some expressions which on intu-itive and syntactic grounds hould be in the hetero-geneous class "happen" to refer homogeneously (cf.Schubert and Pelletier 1989).
This problem has beennoted in passing by Mittwoch (1982), Moens (1987),and Krifka (1989), but to my knowledge has not beensystematically addressed by those focusing on the se-mantics of aspect.
The easiest examples to constructinvolve lexical or quantificational vagueness, thoughmore insidious examples exist involving self-similarobjects.
For instance, consider Mittwoch's examplebelow:(2) John wrote something in ten minutes which ittook me half an hour to translate.The problem here is that the expression John writesomething refers homogeneously, but neverthelesscombines with an in-adverbial - - if there is an eventof John writing something, then all the subeventsof that event (down to a certain limit in size) willalso be events of John writing something (Mbeit notthe same thing), and thus the expression refers divi-sively; similar considerations show that it refers cu-mulatively as well.
To take another example, con-sider the following sentence:(3) John typed a sequence of characters in thirtyseconds (which it took me two minutes to writeby hand).In (3) the problem is that subsequences of charac-ters are also sequences of characters (albeit differentones), and thus the expression John type a sequenceof characters happens to refer homogeneously too.Since the indicated expressions in (2) and (3) turnout referentially homogeneous rather than heteroge-neous, their compatibility with in-adverbials (andnot for-adverbials) is problematic for the theories ofDowty, Hinrichs and Krifka.
1 Now, as an alternativeto the present approach, one might want to considerbasing an account of this problem on differing scopepossibilities for the expressions which "accidentally"and "truly" refer homogeneously - -  that is, to some-how allow for different subquantities of beer but notdifferent subsequences of characters.
A serious prob-lem for any such approach, however, is the existenceof readings where the temporal adverbial has widescope, as in (4):1Showing this in detail is beyond the scope of thepresent paper.
For a more detailed exposition of thisproblem as it relates to Ktifl~'s theory, see White (1993).413(4) Amazingly, John replied to every new emailmessage in under two hours.The availability of such wide scope readings doesnot seem compatible with the idea of requiring thequantified phrase to outscope the temporal adver-bial, which would seem to be necessary in order to(always) correctly predict the appropriate temporaladverbial by means of a referential homogeneity test.Beyond the empirical problems engendered by ref-erential homogeneity tests, there appear to be sig-nificant computational ones as well.
From the gen-eration standpoint, it seems quite unreasonable totest whether any or all subevents of an event to bedescribed happen to meet the same description be-fore choosing a temporal adverbial to convey dura-tion.
Likewise, from the standpoint of interpreta-tion, if one is to make use of aspectual informationin processing successive sentences in discourse (as inthe theories of Hinrichs, 1986, Moens and Steedman,1988, and Lascarides and Asher, 1991, for example),there is equally little time for performing such tests.
23 Theory3.1 OntologyVarious authors (including Link, 1983, Bach, 1986,Krifka, 1989, Eberle, 1990) have proposed model-theoretic treatments in which a parallel ontologicaldistinction is made between substances and things,processes and events, etc.
A similarly parallel dis-tinction is employed here, but in a rather differentway: unlike the above treatments, the present ac-count models substances, processes, and other suchentities as abstract kinds whose realizations vary inamount.
As such, the approach developed here maybe seen as building upon the work of Carlson (1977)and his successors; it also represents one way to fur-ther formalize the intuitions found in Moens andSteedman (1988) and Jackendoff (1991).Following Schubert and Pelletier (1987), thepresent account distinguishes individuals from kinds,but not from stages or quantities.
Extending theirontology, the same distinction is assumed to holdnot only in the domain of materials but also in thedomain of eventualities, and derivatively in the do-mains of space and time as well.
This extension setsthe stage for taking a sortal approach to the seman-tics of aspect, in contrast to previous model-theoreticaccounts.3.2 SemanticsLet us assume a many-sorted higher-order logic withmodel structures consisting of the following elements,2A similar point was suggested by Manfred Krifka(p.c.).Entity?
Material- Substance- Thing?
Eventuality- Process- Event?
Space- Trajectory?
Time?
Amount- Quantity- Distance- Duration?
NumberFigure 1: The (Abbreviated) Sort Hierarchyplus an interpretation function:?
a set of entities: E?
sorts: Material, Eventuality, Kind, .
.
.?
binary relations: p, comp, E_, r, amt, .
.
.To structure the set of entities E, we require permis-sible models to satisfy various axioms on the binaryrelations.Roughly following Eberle (1990) and Jackend-off (1991), we assume postulates enforcing the (non-exhaustive) sort hierarchy shown in Figure 1.
Wealso assume that certain sorts cut across the hier-archy, in particular the disjoint sorts Kind and In-dividual.
These sorts partition the sorts Material,Eventuality, Space and Time.
Some of the resultantsorts are named in Figure 1; these equivalences areshown below:?
KindsSubstance = Kind f3 MaterialProcess = Kind fl Non-State?
IndividualsThing = Individual fl MaterialEvent = Individual fl Non-StateFollowing Schubert and Pelletier, we map pred-icates to kinds using the operator p. To mapkinds to their realizations, we employ a relationcomp(osed of) inspired by Jackendoff's (1991) con-ceptual function of the same name.
As this relationis central to the present account, its sortal require-ments are shown below:414(5) Vxy.
comp(z)(y) --* Kind(x) A Individual(y)(6) For all S in {Material, Eventuality,.
.
.}:Vxy.
comp(z)(y) -* S(z) A S(y)In the spirit of Krifka (1989) and Eberle (1990),we also employ a partial order ff (part of) on thesort Individual, as well as total orderings ~ and <on the sorts Amount and Number, respectively.
F\]--nally, we employ spatio-temporal trace functions rmapping from Eventuality to Space and to Time, aswell as a function am(oun)t mapping from Individualto Amount.We relate the preceding binary relations as follows.First, formal kinds and their realizations are requiredto satisfy the following axiom: 3(7) VPz .
comp(p(P))(z) ~ P(z)Second, we require the spatio-temporal trace func-tions r to be homomorphisms preserving the part-ofrelation, as shown below:(8) Vele2 ?
el_e2 ~ v(el)__.v(e2)Third, we also require the spatio-temporal tracefunctions to preserve the composed-of relation, atleast when they map processes to kind-level entities,as shown in (9); in the case of the temporal tracefunction rt, this requirement is strengthened to holdgenerally, as shown in (10):(9) Veal.
comp(e)(el) ^ Kind(r(e))--* comp(r(e))(r(el ))(10) Veel.
comp(e)(ea) --* comp(rt(e))(rt(el))Fourth, as a correlate of referential divisiveness, weassume that the set of individuals composed of agiven kind is closed under the part-of relation; thatis, whenever an individual y= is composed of a certainkind z, then all subparts Yl of y~ are also composedof z, as shown in (11).
4(11) Vxyly2.
comp(z)(y2) A ylff_y2 -* ?omp(z)(yl)Finally, we require the function amt and unit mea-sures such as minutes' to satisfy various fairly ob-vious postulates concerning the preservation of theorderings __, _ and _<.3.3 SyntaxThe rudimentary categorial grammar given in Fig-ure 2 suffices to derive all of the logical forms in thenext section.
Note that lexemes uch as slime arepaired with syntactic categories uch as n and se-mantic functions uch as slime ~ (where the categoryvp abbreviates s \ np).
Three e-rules are also em-ployed, one for introducing p in a bare np, one forSNote that not all kinds need involve #; presumably,conventional kinds such as Coke or Heineken are nameddirectly.4Because of the notorious MINIMAL PARTS PROBLEM(i.e., how little beer is still beer?
), this postulate is notquite correct as stated; amending it would require addinga condition that yl be "large enough ~ for the kind z.lifting a vp to apply to a generalized quantifier, 5 andone for adding an existential quantifier to the sen-tence radical (ignoring tense and mood).3.4  Aspeetua l  Compos i t ionManner-of-motion verbs such as run, wa&, etc.
areinteresting insofar as the telicity of the expressionsin which they are used is dependent upon both thesubject NP and an optional trajectory-specifying PP:(12) John ran along the river for 20 minutes.
(13) John ran to the bridge in 20 minutes.
(14) Slime oozed into the urn for 20 minutes.
(15) Two liters of slime oozed into the urn in 20minutes.Let us assume that such verbs take material entitiesas arguments and describe ventualites (either eventsor processes).
To capture their aspectual behavior,we stipulate the following preliminary postulate:For all A in {run', ooze',...} :(16) we.\[Individual(e)Individual(rs(e)) A Individual(z)\]Meaning postulate (16) states that if A(z) holds ofan eventuality e, where A ranges over run e, ooze ~,etc., then e is an event (an individual eventuality) ifand only if its spatial trace rs(e) is an individual tra-jectory and x is a thing (i.e., an individual material).If we assume that the expression to the bridge onlydescribes individual trajectories, then postulate (16)forces John run to the bridge to describe an event.In contrast, if we assume that the expression alongthe river is not restricted in this way, then John runalong the river may describe a process as well.
Tocapture this formally, the following meaning postu-late is needed:(17) Vzp.
to'(x)(p) --* Individual(p)Given the categories listed in Figure 2, the expres-sions John run along the river and John run to thebridge receive the following translations:(18) Ae.
run'(j)(e ) A along'(the'(river'))(rs(e))(19) Ae.
run'(j)(e) A to'(the'(bridge'))(rs(e))From meaning postulates (16) and (17), it followsthat the latter expression must describe vents; withno analogous meaning postulate for along, the formerexpression is free to describe processes as well.Before continuing, it is worth explaining why pos-tulate (17) is a reasonable one.
Recall that a givenprocess stands in the composed-of relation to mul-tiple events.
If these events differ in their spatialextents, then the spatial trace of the process can-not sensibly be an individual-level ntity, assumingSThis rule is a simplified version of a more generalrule which introduces an existential quantifier over theeventuality variable.415Johntenlitersofslimetherunemilestoforinminutese:= np:= num:= gq \[ pp-of \  num:= pp-o f /np:--~ n:---- np/  n:=  np  / n:-- s \np:= s \gq /vp:-- vp \vp \num:= vp \vp / tm:= vp \vp / tm:= vp \vp / tm:= tm \num:-" U /8: j: 10: ~nmP.
B~.
comp(m)(x)  ^  amt(~) = liters'(n) ^  P(~): Az.
z: slime': g: the': run': APQe.Q(Az .P ( : r )Ce) ): AnPxe .
P(z)(e) ^  amt(rs(e)) = miles'(n): AyPze .
P(z)(e) ^  to'(y)(rs(e)): AdPxe l .
Be.
P(z)(e)  h comp(e)(el)  ^  amt(rt(el)) = d: ,~dPze .
P(z)(e)  A amt(rt(e)) _ d: minutes': AP .Be .P (e )Figure 2: Rudimentary Syntaxunique amounts (distances) for individual trajecto-ries; instead, it should be a kind-level trajectory,standing in the composed-of relation to the variousindividual trajectories corresponding to these multi-ple events - -  as per postulate (9).
It is in this sensethat the spatial trace of a process may not be "delim-ited" in extent.
Of course, this does not mean thatthe spatial trace of a process cannot be bounded inany absolute sense; in the case of along the river, forexample, no resultant rajectory is allowed to con-tinue (very far) past the river's end.
l~eturning nowto to the river, we may note that this expression de-scribes the end point of a trajectory; as such it isnaturally restricted to describing individual trajec-tories, which always have defined endpoints.Next we turn to slime and two liters of slime.Given the categories listed in Figure 2, the expres-sions Slime ooze into the urn and Two liters of slimeooze into the urn receive the following translations:(20) ) ,e .
ooze'(u(slime'))(e) ^into'(the'(urn'))(rs(e)),Xe.
Bz.
comp(g(slime'))(z)  ^(21) amt(x) = liters'(2) ^  ooze'(z)(e) ^into'(the'(urn'))(n(e))Now, i f  we assume a sor ta l  meaning postulate forinto analogous to that of to, then it follows from thesortal requirements on p and comp that (20) can onlydescribe processes, whereas (21) can only describeevents.At this point we are ready to consider the temporaladverbials.
Not surprisingly, the relation comp iscrucial to the present account of the for- vs. in-adverbial test data, as can be seen from comparingtheir semantics: whereas for-adverbials measure outa process using comp and a given amount of time,in-adverbials simply require that an event take placewithin a given amount of time.Let us first consider how the machinery developedso far can be used to account for examples (14) and(15), augmented below:(22) Slime oozed into the urn {for}* in twenty minutes.
(23) Two liters of slime oozed into the urn{* fo r  tin twenty minutes.The respective translations of the two possibilities in(23) follow:3zeel .
comp(p(slime'))(z) Aamt(x) = liters'(2) ^  ooze'(x)(e)  ^(24) into'(the'(urn'))(rs(e)) ^comp(e)(el) ^ amt(rt(el)) = minutes'(20)Bze.
comp(p(slime'))(z) ^amt(z) = liters'(2) ^  ooze'(x)(e)  ^(25) into'(the'(urn'))(rs(e)) ^amt(r,(e)) -< minutes'(20)Since the entity e in (24) is required to be an event,comp(e)(el) turns out undefined, s making (24) se-mantically anomalous.
In contrast, lacking comp,the translation in (25) is unproblematic.
Simi-lar reasoning shows that (22) can only be compat-ible with for-adverbials, assuming durations (i.e.,amounts of temporal traces) are not defined for pro-cesses.
Furthermore, these same considerations leadto the correct predictions in examples (12) and (13)as well.
T Finally, without further ado the theorymakes the correct predictions in (26) below, as dis-tances (amounts of spatial traces) are only definedfor events:sI-Iere I am assuming for expository purposes that theinterpretation of a function is undefined if any of its ar-gument terms are not of the appropriate sort, or are un-denned themselves.ZNote, however, that the theory as it stands cannotrule out ?
John ran along the river in ?0 minutes, whichcomes out meaning the same thing as John ran somedistance along the river in ~0 minutes.416* for ~ twenty (26) John ran four miles in j "minutes.Up until this point we have relied (in part) on thestipulated postulate (16) to capture the temporal ad-verbial data.
We consider now how we may derivethis postulate from more basic assumptions, begin-ning with the following one:For all A in {run', ooze' .
.
.
.  }
:Wee~.
A(x)(e) ^  comp(e)(e~) --.
(27) \ [3~.
A(=l)(el) ^  comp(r.(e))(~.
(ed)\]V \[:Ix1.
A(xl)(el) A comp(z)(xl)\]Postulate (27) is meant to capture in a novel waythe intuition that a A process e must be "measuredout" either by its trajectory Ts(e) or by its materialargument x (cf.
Krifka, 1989, Dowty, 1991, Tenny,1992, Verkuyl and Zwarts, 1992).
It does so by re-quiring that all individual events el composed of e beA events with either an individual trajectory %(el)composed of %(e) or an individual material argumentx~ composed of x (or possibly both).
From (27) fol-lows the only-if (~--) part of (16), as follows: if bothx and rs(e) are individual-level ntities, then neitherof the alternatives in the.
consequent of (27) can betrue, since the composed-of relation is not defined forindividual-level ntities; therefore, by way of contra-diction, e cannot be a process (at least if we assumeall kind-level entities are in the domain of comp).To make the if(--+) part of (16) follow too, we mayemploy the following postulate:For all A in {run', ooze',...} :(28) We.
A(x)(e) ^  Individual(e)R(amt(rt(e) ) (amtO'Je)  )(amt(x)Postulate (28) relates the duration of a A eventto the length of its trajectory and the quantity ofits material argument by some unspecified relationR (which might limit speeds to acceptable ranges,for example).
Since amounts are only defined forindividual-level entities, this forces the trajectoryand material argument of a A event o be individual-level as well.3.5 Referent ia l  Homogene i ty  Rev is i tedWhile the property of referential homogeneity doesnot play a part in capturing the for- vs. in-adverbialtest data in the present approach, it is neverthelessnecessary to account for certain desired inferences.In particular, we shall need a version of referentialdivisiveness in order to make the first but not thesecond inference below a valid one:(29) John ran along the river for five minutes.John ran along the river for four minutes.
(30) -, John ran to the bridge in five minutes.John ran to the bridge in four minutes.Given the translation of John ran to the bridge in nminutes in (31) below, it is easy enough to see why(30) is not a valid inference: all that is needed is amodel in which there is an event of John runningto the bridge that takes more than four minutes buttakes place within five minutes.
(31) 3e.
run'(j)(e) A to'(the'(bridge'))(~',(e)) ^amt(rt(e)) _ minuteg(n)Turning now to (29), consider the translations below:(32) 3ee2.
run'(j)(e) A along'(the'(river'))(r.(e))A comp(e)(e2) A amt(rt(e)) = minutes'(5)(33) 3eel .
run'(j)(e) A along'(the'(river'))(rs(e))A comp(e)(et) A amt(l"t(e)) = minutes'(4)Note here that the variables have been (equivalently)renamed to indicate which we shall take to be thesame and which different: that is, we shall take e2and el to be two events of different durations com-posed of the same process e. To get (29) to follow inthis way, we need the following two postulates:For all A in {run', ooze',...} :(34) Vze2dl .
A(z)(e2) A dl _ amt(rt(e2)) ---,3el .
elEe2 A amt(rt(el)) = dlFor all r in {along', to ' , .
.
.}
:(35) Vze.
r(x)(rs(e)) A comp(e)(el) ---,r(x)(r,(el))Postulate (34) states that if a A event e2 has du-ration amt(rt(e2)), then for all lesser durations dl,e2 has subevents el of that duration; postulate (35)states that r trajectory predicates are preserved bythe composed-of relation.
From postulate (34) it fol-lows that the running event e2 of duration five min-utes must have a subevent el of duration four min-utes, which we know by (11) to be composed of thesame process e; finally, postulate (35) ensures that elis also located along the river, thus validating (29).In addition to accounting for the downward en-tailments above, the machinery developed so far alsoaccounts for existential entailments such as the onein (36), assuming the translation of the consequentgiven in (37):Slime oozed into the urn for ten minutes.
(36) Some amount of slime oozed into the urnin ten minutes.3zme.
comp(/~(slime'))(z) A Amount(m) A(37) amt(x) = m ^  ooze'(x)(e) ^into'(the'(urn'))(r.(e)) ^amt(rt(e)) -< minutes'(10)The inference (36) follows by postulates (27) and(35).
Since Some amount of slime ooze into theurn turns out to be referentially homogeneous, (36)concomitantly shows how the present approach dis-solves THE ACCIDENTAL REFERENTIAL HOMOGENE-ITY PROBLEM.4173.6 Repet i t ionsSo far we have been careful to exclude from consid-eration the iterative readings that for-adverbials caninduce (cf.
Moens and Steedman, 1988, Jackend-off, 1991).
Here we consider some extensions to theapproach developed above which permit these to becaptured as well.Let us begin by adding retried sets to the do-main of individuals, along the lines of Link (1983)or Krifka (1989).
We do so by partitioning the sortIndividual using disjoint sorts Atom and Non-Atomand introducing a new relation __.i (individual partof) isomorphic to the subset relation over the powerset of the atoms, minus the empty set (to avoid con-fusion, we might rename the other part of relationE_q, for quantity part of).
We also add a cardinalityfunction \[ ?
\] mapping individuals to numbers, andan operator plur(al) mapping predicates over atomsto predicates over non-atoms.
Naturally enough, werequire the operator plur to satisfy the following pos-tulate, where __.~i s equal to ___i with its domain re-stricted to the atoms:(38) VPz lz2 .
plur(P)(z2) A zl__.aiz2 -"* P(Zl)Given this additional machinery, we may accountfor the iterative readings induced by for-adverbialsby simply positing a lexical ambiguity between thereading for for given in Figure 2 and the one below:(39) for: ~dPxel.
3e.
t~(plur(P(z))) = e ^comp(e)(el) ^amt(rt(e)) = dNote that in reading (39), the process emeasured outby the for-adverbial isnot the one described by P(z) ,but rather the one equal to/~(plur(P(z))), which hasas its realizations collections of P(z)  events of vary-ing cardinalities; note also that the sortal require-ments on plur and comp ensure that the two readingsof f  or-adverbials are in complementary distribution,insofar as only one can ever be defined for a giveneventuality predicate p.8Finally, we may observe that these same extensionscan be used to give a natural account of frequencyadverbials uch as twice or n times:(40) twice: APze.
plur(P(x))(e) ^ l e 1= 24 App l i ca t ionIn this section we turn to an implemented systembased on the above theoretical treatment which de-termines whether a specified sequence of events is oris not possible under varying situationally suppliedconstraints.
The domain is limited to trajectory-of-motion events specified by the verbs run, jog,sit is worth noting that as an alternative to posit-ing a lexical ambiguity, one could just as easily invokea coercion operator on an event predicate P(z) map-ping it to the process predicate he.
#(plur(P(x))) = e,which would bring the present reatment more in linewith Moens and Steedman (1988) and Jackendoff (1991).plod, and walk; the locative prepositions to, towards,from, away from, along, eastwards, westwards, andto and back; various landmarks; the distance adver-bials n miles; the frequency adverbials twice and ntimes; and finally the temporal adverbials for andin.
Trajectory-of-motion events are modeled as con-tinuous constant rate changes of location in one di-mension of the TRAJECTOR relative to one or moreLANDMARKS (following Regier 1992 in his use of Lan-gacker's 1987 terminology).Briefly, the system takes a set of landmark loca-tions (which are assumed to remain constant) and aninput string from which it derives all possible logicalforms for the given sentences; it then extracts a set ofconstraint equations from the derived logical formsand solves them according to a best-value metric.
Ifa solution is found, it is displayed as a space-timediagram as shown in Figure 3.
Note that distancesare in miles, durations are in minutes, and the rangeof rates associated with the verbs are appropriate fora serious athlete.The best-value metric currently employed is prox-imity to the median rate for the given manner ofmotion, summed across successive vents.
Accord-ing to this metric, an event such as Guy running tothe bar takes a default amount of time according tothe distance and the median rate; however, an eventof Guy running to the bar in n minutes may takeless time if this duration is less than the default - -at least up to the point where the specified urationrequires exceeding the given maximum running rate,thus making the constraint equations unsatisfiable.Likewise, an event of Guy running along the river(towards the bar, say) for n minutes will yield a de-fault distance according to the amount of time andthe median rate; this distance may vary according tomore demanding distance requirements imposed bysucceeding sentences, again up to a certain point.The times of successive repetitive events aresummed, so that scope differences between frequencyand temporal adverbials may be adequately treated;that is, the system correctly determines when onebut not the other of Guy jogged to the care and backin ten minutes twice and Guy ... twice in ten minutesis possible.
The summing of the durations of succes-sive events also allows the system to determine anappropriate number of iterations for Guy jogged tothe cafe and back for 30 minutes.
9The system is implemented in SCREAMER, Siskindand McAllester's (1993) portable, efficient versionof nondeterministic Common Lisp augmented witha general-purpose constraint satisfaction package.Taking advantage of SCREAMER'S compatibility withthe COMMON LISP OBJECT SYSTEM, constraints arespecified in a declarative, hierarchical fashion.
Asan example, Figure 4 shows how variables associ-9Note that the system cannot find a solution for Guyran to the bar \]or 30 minutes, since there is no provisionfor adding unspecified events (such as leaving the bar).418Guy's JourneyTime120.00 -110 .00  -100 .00  -90 .00  -80.00 -70.00 -60 .00-50.00 -40 .00-30.00 -20.00 -10.00 t ~0.00I0.00I I5.00 10.00Guy- mouthbridgemcare- museumbarinn-damLocationFigure 3: Program output for the following input string: "Guy walked eastwards along the river for 40minutes.
Then he jogged from the cafe to the museum.
Next he ran to the bar and back three times in 20minutes.
Finally he plodded to the inn."
Note that for 20 minutes could have been used instead of threetimes in 20 minutes.419(defc laes t ra jec tory -event  (); ; ;  etc .
.
.
(del~aited :initformnil); ; ;  etc .
.
.
(defmethod in i t ia l i ze - ins tance  :af ter( (e  t ra jec tory -event )  t reat  in i t s ); ; ;  etc .
.
.
(assert !
(=v dt ( -v t l  tO)))(assert !
(=v d (*v r d r ) ) ) ) )(de fc laeerun-event  ( t ra jec tory -event )  ()(defmethod initialize-instance :after((e run-event) ~reet lairs)(declare (ignore inits))(let ((r (slot-value ?
'rate)))(assert!
(<=v r (/ I 4.5)))(assert!
(>=v r (/ i 6.5)))))Figure 4: Declarative, hierarchical constraint speci-fication in SCREAMER.ated with the trajectory-of-motion class of eventsare constrained according to the formula distance =rate x time; it also shows how a further constrainton rates is associated with the running specializationof this class.Because the domain is so simple, adequate con-straints on trajectories are trivial to specify.
Some-what more imaginatively, processes are modeled bytheir constrained but unsolved-for realizations; theyare distinguished from them solely (and efficiently!
)by the value of the feature delimited, as justifiedby the sortal approach advocated in the last section.Likewise, kind- and individual-level trajectories aredistinguished by the same feature, in such a way asto maintain postulate (16).
Lest the reader miss thepoint for its simplicity, it is worth emphasizing (re-calling Figure 3) that this feature is crucial for de-termining whether single instances or repetitions areinvolved in sentences such as Guy walked eastwardsalong the river/or ~0 minutes and Guy ran to thebridge and back for ~0 minutes.5 ConclusionIn this paper I have presented a novel, sortally-basedapproach to the problem of aspectual compositionwhich I have argued to be superior on both em-pirical and computational grounds to previous ap-proaches relying on referential homogeneity ests.
Ihave also described an implemented system based onthe theoretical treatment which determines whethera specified sequence of trajectory-of-motion events isor is not possible under varying situationally speci-fied constraints.Beyond its obvious shortcomings, there are threespecific limitations to the system worth mentioning.First, the range of discourses i limited to narrativesequences, which greatly simplifies the necessary rea-soning (el.
Hwang and Schubert, 1991, Lascaridesand Asher, 1991, Hobbs et.
el.
1993).
Second, thepresent approach does not lend itself well to flexiblyaccommodating ew information.
Third, in the casewhere a specified sequence of events turns out notto be possible, the constraint satisfaction approachdoes not provide any mechanism for explaining whythis happens to be so.
In order to address these prob-lems, in future work I intend to investigate to whatextent he present approach can be meshed with theInterpretation asAbduction approach advocated byHobbs et.
al., which appears to be well suited tothese issues.References\[Bach, 1986\] Emmon Bach.
The algebra of events.Linguistics and Philosophy, 1986.\[Carlson, 1977\] Greg Carlson.
A unified analysis ofthe English bare plural.
Linguistics and Philoso-phy, 1:413-457, 1977.\[Dowty, 1979\] David R. Dowty.
Word Meaning andMontague Grammar.
Reidel, 1979.\[Dowty, 1991\] David Dowty.
Thematic proto-rolesand argument selection.
Language, 67(3):547-615,1991.\[Eberle, 1990\] Kurt Eberle.
Eventualities in natu-ral language understanding systems.
In Sorts andTypes in Artificial Intelligence.
Springer Verlag,1990.\[Habel, 1990\] Christopher Habel.
Propositional nddepictorial representations of spatial knowledge:The case of path-concepts.
In Natural Languageand Logic.
Springer Verlag, 1990.
Lecture Notesin Artificial Intelligence.\[Hays, 1989\] Ellen M. Hays.
On defining motionverbs and spatial relations.
Technical Report 61,Universit~it des Saarlandes, 1989.
SFB 314 (VI-TRA).\[Herskovits, 1986\] Annette Herskovits.
Languageand Spatial Cognition.
Cambridge UniversityPress, 1986.\[Hinrichs, 1985\] Erhard Hinriehs.
A CompositionalSemantics for Aktionsarten and NP Reference inEnglish.
PhD thesis, The Ohio State University,1985.\[Hinrichs, 1986\] Erhard Itinrichs.
Temporalanaphora in discourses of English.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, 9(1), 1986.420\[Hobbs et al, 1988\] Jerry Hobbs, Mark Stickel, PaulMartin, and Douglas Edwards.
Interpretation asabduction.
In Proceedings of ACL, 1988.\[Hobbs et al, 1993\] Jerry Hobbs, Mark Stickel,Douglas Appelt, and Paul Martin.
Interpretationas abduction, 1993.
To appear in Artificial Intel-ligence Journal.\[Hwang and Schubert, 1991\] Chung Hee Hwang andLenhart K. Schubert.
Tense trees as the "finestructure" of discourse.
In Working Notes of theAAAI Fall Symposium on Discourse Structure inNatural Language Understanding and Generation,Asilomar, CA, November 1991.\[Jackendoff and Landau, 1991\] Ray Jaekendoff andBarbara Landau.
Spatial anguage and spatial cog-nition.
LEA, 1991.\[Jaekendoff, 1991\] Ray Jackendoff.
Parts andboundaries.
Cognition, 41:9-45, 1991.\[Krifka, 1989\] Manfred Krifka.
Nominal reference,temporal constitution and quantification i eventsemantics.
In R. Bartsch, J. van Benthem, andP.
van Emde Boas, editors, Semantics and Con-textual Expressions.
Dordrecht, 1989.\[Krifka, 1992\] Manfred Krifka.
Thematic relationsas links between ominal reference and temporalconstitution.
In Ivan A.
Sag and Anna Szabolcsi,editors, Lexical Matters.
CSLI, 1992.\[Langacker, 1987\] Ronald Langacker.
Foundationsof Cognitive Grammar I: Theoretical Prerequisites.Stanford University Press, 1987.\[Lascarides and Asher, 1991\] Alex Lascarides andNicholas Asher.
Discourse relations and defensi-ble knowledge.
In Proceedings of the PPth AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, 1991.\[Link, 1983\] G6dehard Link.
The logical analy-sis of plurals and mass terms.
In R. Bauerle,C.
Schwarze, and A. yon Steehow, editors, Mean-ing, Use, and Interpretation of Language.
deGruyter, 1983.\[Link, 1987\] G/Sdehard Link.
Algebraic semantics ofevent structures.
In J. Groenendijk, M. Stokhof,and F. Veltman, editors, Proceedings of the SixthAmsterdam Colloquium, 1987.\[Mayer, 1989\] Roll Mayer.
Coherence and motion.Linguistics, pages 437-485, 1989.\[Mittwoch, 1982\] Anita Mittwoch.
On the differencebetween eating and eating something: Activitiesversus accomplishments.
Linguistic Inquiry, 1982.\[Moens and Steedman, 1988\] MarcMoens and Mark Steedman.
Temporal ontologyand temporal reference.
Computational Linguis-tics, June 1988.\[Moens, 1987\] Marc Moens.
Tense, Aspect and Tem-poral Reference.
PhD thesis, University of Edin-burgh, 1987.\[Pelletier and Schubert, 1989\] Francis Jeffry Pel-letier and Lenhart K. Schubert.
Mass expressions.In D. Gabbay and F. Guenthner, editors, Hand-book of Philosophical Logic, chapter IV.4, pages327-407.
D. Reidel Publishing Company, 1989.\[Regier, 1992\] Terrance Philip Regier.
The Acqui-sition of Lezical Semantics for Spatial Terms: AConnectionist Model of Perceptual Categorization.PhD thesis, University of California at Berkeley,1992.\[Schubert and Pelletier, 1987\] Lenhart K. Schubertand Francis Jeffry Pelletier.
Problems in the rep-resentation of the logical form of generics, plurals,and mass nouns.
In New Directions in Semantics,pages 385-451.
Academic Press, 1987.\[Siskind and McAllester, 1993a\]Jeffrey Mark Siskind and David Allen MeAllester.Nondeterministic LISP as a substrate for constraintlogic programming.
Technical Report IRCS-93-03,University of Pennsylvania, 1993.\[Siskind and McAllester, 1993b\]Jeffrey Mark Siskind and David Alien McAllester.SCREAMER: A portable efficient implementationof nondeterministic COMMON LISP.
To appear inAAAI-93, 1993.\[Tenny, 1992\] Carol Tenny.
The aspectual interfacehypothesis.
In Ivan A.
Sag and Anna Szabolcsi,editors, Lexieal Matters.
CSLI, 1992.\[Vendler, 1967\] Zeno Vendler.
Linguistics in Philos-ophy.
Cornell University Press, 1967.\[Verkuyl and Zwarts, 1992\] Henk Verkuyl and JoostZwarts.
Time and space in conceptual nd logicalsemantics: the notion of path.
Linguistics, pages483-511, 1992.J\[Verkuyl, 1972\] H. J. Verkuyl.
On the CompositionalNature of the Aspects.
Reidel, 1972.\[Verkuyl, 1989\] H. J. Verkuyl.
Aspectual classes andaspectual composition.
Linguistics and Philoso-phy, 12(1), 1989.\[White, 1993\] Michael White.
On pasta makers anddelimitedness.
In Proceedings of the Penn Reviewof Linguistics, volume 17, 1993.\[Zwarts and Verkuyl, 1991\] Joost Zwarts and HenkVerkuyl.
An algebra of conceptual structure; aninvestigation i to Jackendoff's conceptual seman-tics.
Forthcoming, 1991.421
