Knowledge acquisition for a constrained speech system using WoZLa i la  Dybk jver  & N ie l s  O le  Bernsen  & Hans  Dybk jaerCentre for Cognitive Informatics (CCI), Roskilde UniversityPO Box 260, DK-4000 Roskilde, Denmarkemails: laila@ruc.dk, nob@ruc.dk, dybkjaer@ruc.dkThis paper describes the knowledge acquisitionphase in a national project z aimed at the design ofrealistic spoken language dialogue system prototypesin the domain of airline ticket reservation and flightinformation \[Dybkj~er and Dybkjaer, 1993\].The goals of the knowledge acquisition phase wereto define a dialogue structure and a sublanguage vo-cabulary and grammar for subsequent implementa-tion of a first prototype.
The development methodwas the Wizard of Oz simulation technique \[Fraserand Gilbert, 1991\].
The dialogue model had to sat-isfy a number of conflicting constraints, most im-portantly: (1) A maximum user vocabulary of 500word forms.
(2) A maximum user utterance lengthof 10 words and an average length of 3-4 words.
(3)A usable dialogue, including sufficient domain andtask coverage, robustness and real-time system per-formance.
(4) A natural form of dialogue and lan-guage.A usable system is one which can do the tasks re-quired of it.
In principle, it can replace a human op-erator on those tasks.
A natural system, on the otherhand, is one which allows users to use free and uncon-strained spontaneous speech in efficiently achievingtheir goals.
In the development of the first proto-type to be described here, the focus was on usability(constraints (1)-(3) above) and on laying the founda-tions for meeting the naturalness constraint (4) in asecond prototype.
The real-time requirement of (3)forces the recogniser to handle at most 100 activewords at a time, and together with (1) and (2) thisobviously pushes the dialogue model towards a rigidsystem-directed dialogue structure.Seven iterations of Wizard of Oz experiments wereperformed involving taped and transcribed ialoguesbetween the wizard and subjects.
Voice distortinghardware (equalizer and harmonizer) was only usedin the final set of experiments.
A wizard's assis-tant was used in the three last sets of experiments.From iteration 3 onwards, the wizard used a graphstructure based on the notion of basic tasks and con-taining canned phrases in the nodes and contents ofpossible user answers along the edges.
In addition,users were instructed to answer questions briefly andone at a time in order to be understood by the sys-tem.
Users were given broadly described scenariosZThe project is carried out in collaboration with theSpeech Technology Centre at Aalborg University (STC)and the Centre for Language Technology at CopenhagenUniversity (CST).
We gratefully acknowledge the supportof the project by the Danish Government's InformaticsProgramme.the goals of which they had to achieve in dialoguewith the system.
In the last three iterations 23 sub-jects performed in all 107 dialogues with 28 differentscenarios using a total of 4455 words.The constraints (1) and (2) above on vocabularysize and maximum and average user utterance l ngthhave been met.
In the last iteration only 3 user utter-ances out.
of 881 contained more than 10 tokens andthe average number of tokens per user turn was 1.85.The total number of word types was 165 excludingnumbers, weekdays, months, and destinations.
Ad-ditional inflexions and a complete list of numbers,weekdays, months, and destinations are incorporatedin the final sublanguage which includes close to 500word forms.In order to evaluate the simulated system's usabil-ity and naturalness (3)-(4), users were given a ques-tionaire asking them about their opinion of the sys-tem.
On average they found the system desirable(62%), efficient (60%), robust (82%), reliable (73%),easy to use (73%), simple (78%), and friendly (82%),but still 81% preferred to talk to a human travelagent!
Apart from a general preference for talking tohumans this is probably due to the rigid menu-likestructure.
As for robustness the wizard did not sim-ulate misrecognitions.
This may result in lack of ro-bustness in the first prototype.
The domain and taskcoverage was sufficient for the scenarios used and thesystem would seem adequate for handling the taskswhich were found in recordings from a travel agency.The vocabulary is believed to be usable but itsnatural limits have not yet been identified.
More-over, subjects tended to model formulations fromthe scenarios.
To improve data reliability, scenar-ios should be used which only provide an abstractscenario frame and force subjects to be inventive.The second prototype should demonstrate im-proved naturalness, including: a less rigid menustructure which allows immediate focused choice;longer average user utterances; well-tested robust-ness; and an increased amount of information trans-ferred between different asks and subtasks.Re ferences\[Dybkj~er and Dybkjaer, 1993\] Laila Dybkj~er andHans Dybkjaer.
Wizard of Oz Experiments in theDevelopment ofthe Dialogue Model for P1.
Report3, STC, CCI, CST, 1993.\[Fraser and Gilbert, 1991\] Norman M. Fraser andG.
Nigel Gilbert.
Simulating Speech Systems.Computer Speech and Language , no.
5, 1991.467
