A Constraint-based Representat ion Scheme of CollocationalStructuresDirk  Hey lent  Andr6  Schenkt  Marc  Verhagen l :(heylen@let.ruu.nl) (schenk@let.ruu,nl) (verhm@sx.ac.uk)t OTS - Trans 10 -3512 JK Utrecht (NL)CLMT Essex University - Wivenhoe Park - C04 3SQ Colchester (UK)1 In t roduct ionThe main aim of the ET-10/?5 project, 'Collocationsand the Lexicalisation of Semantic Operations '1, isto evaluate the use of Mel'~uk's analysis of colloca-tions in terms of lexical functions 2, as an interlin-gun device in a machine translation system.
In thisposter we only point out the main design issues in-volved in encoding the essential parts of this analysisin an HPSG-style framework.
Other aspects of theproject, such as the definition of collocations, or theevaluation of the analysis as such, will not be dealtwith.
The linguistic analysis of collocations (as faras it is dealt with in this poster) involves two majorissues.?
Coding the Mel'~ukian analysis in an HPSG-Iikegrammar.?
Designing the architecture of the lexicon.2 Ana lys i sExamples of the collocational structures we have inmind are strong criticism (as an adjective-noun com-bination) and give a demonstration (as a verb-nouncombination).
The essential characteristics we wantto account for in our analysis are the following.?
The collocational cooccurrence r striction.?
The dependence of the meaning of the collocateon the combination.?
The relation between the 'collocate occurrence'of a word and its free occurrence.Following Mel'Suk, the restricted choice of the par-ticular adjective or verb is represented in the dictio-nary by means of lexical functions.
The dictionaryentry for criticism contains asection in which its 'col-locates' are listed, indexed by a lexical function.
Inthis case, we would find: Magn(criticism) = strong.This points out that you can use strong when youwant to express Magn(criticism).
In our interpre-tation of these lexical functions, we take them to begeneral semantic operations, representing the majorsemantic ontribution of the collocate.
So we saythat strong means Magn (= very, intense ...) in thecontext of criticism.As far as translation is concerned, we no longerneed a transfer rule mapping 'strong criticism' onZ We would hereby like to acknowledge the financialsupport by the Commission of the European Commu-nity, Association Suissetra (Geneva) and Oxford Univer-sity Press.2See for instance \[Mel'(~uk and ~olkovsky, 1988\].
'scherpe kritiek' (lit.
sharp criticism)because if bothare analyzed as the interlingual Magn,  we can leavethe correct choice of adjective to the monolingualcomponents.The HPSG grammars we are using, closely resem-ble the proposals in \[Pollard and Sag, 1987\].
As faras the coding of the lexical functions is concerned,we have simply interpreted these as relation names.3 Representat ionBesides the use of a Mel'~ukian analysis and thechoice of an HPSG-style grammar, one of the designcriteria that has guided the representation is to be'minimally redundant'.
This has led to the followingsolution.?
The collocate is only specified by a partial lex-ical entry, which is a generalization of its 'free-occurring' counterpart (its meaning is left un-specified, for instance).?
In the lexicon, it is specified on the base whichcollocates it selects for a particular lexical func-tion.
The remainder of the collocation specificinformation about the collocate is specified hereas well.The following is part of the entry for criticism toillustrate the latter issue.
The COL field providesthe information that to express Magn(criticism), itcan combine with strong.
The reference Sstrong isto the collocate ntry in the dictionary.$criticism: PHONcritieisrnCOL{,.trong\[ CONT,IND \[ VAR\[1\]References\[Heylen el al., 1993\] Dirk Heylen, Andr6 Schenk,and Marc Verhagen.
A unification-based repre-sentation scheme of collocational structures, toappear, 1993.\[Mel'~uk and Zolkovsky, 1988\] I.A.
Mel'~uk andA.K.
7,olkovsky.
The explanatory combinatorialdictionary.
In M. Evens, editor, Relational Mod-els in the Lexicon, pages 41-74.
CUP, Cambridge,1988.\[Pollard and Sag, 1987\] Carl Pollard and Ivan Sag.Information Based Syntax and Semantics.
CSLI,Stanford, 1987.469
