Natural Language Front-Ends to Databases:Design and the Customisation BottleneckAnne De RoeckUniversity of Essex Department ofComputer ScienceWivenhoe Park Colchester CO4 3SQe-mail ?
deroe@essex.ac.uk1.
SQUIRREL: Motivation and Design.NLFE to databases have failed in a commercialcontext, largely because of two reasons.
Currentapproaches to the management of ambiguity by relyingon inference over a world model create ungoingcustomisation requirements.
Furthermore the design ofNLFEs is subject o constraints which research in CL/NLP does not address.
In particular, standard parsingtechniques (including "robust" ones) require completelexica and cannot be deployed because new data wouldcreate aconstant need for dictionary update.The SQUIRREL \[1\] system (SERC Grant GR/E/69485) addresses ome of these problems: its designreduces customisation effort as words are interpretedwithout reference to world models.
The lexicon isassumed to be incomplete: unknown words are giveninterpretations by exploiting typing informationcontained in the datamodel.
In addition, SQUIRRELdemonstrates that NLFEs can allow for interrogation ofintegrity constraints, usually invisible to users.
It isimportant o note that no "new" aspects of standarddatabase management systems are involvedSQUIRREl.
intends to explore to what extent thestate of the art in NLP/CL and Formal Semantics can beexploited in the design of NLFE to relational databases,under constraints imposed by good sofware ngineeringprotocol.
It aims to develop a modular, portable design,to plug in to public domain database technology,requiring minimal customisation.SQUIRREl.
consists of a series of mappingstranslating NL expressions into SQL.
Its highly modulardesign allows parts of the system to be ported withoutaffecting other parts.
Expressions in English areassigned syntactic and semantic representations on thebasis of a lexicon and a context-free feature ba~dgrammar.
The lexicon is incomplete: unknown words areassigned tentative categories by the (bi-directional chart)parser.
Syntactic and semantic rules operate in tandem.Semantic representations are cast in Property Theory(P'D \[2\], delivering "intensional" objects.
These areassigned extensions in the form of first order logic (FOL)expressions.
So far, the representations are independentfrom the domain model of any database in question.The FOL expressions are translated into the domainrelational calculus (DRC), by rules exploiting thelogical structure of the FOL formulae, and a domainmodel.
The resulting expressions are translated into SQLby a simple syntactic transduction.The design offers several cut-off points at whichmodules can be re-deployed.
The lexicon and granunar,currently written for a subset of English, can readily becustomised for any language for which a context-freefeature based grammar exists.
The step via PT offers asecond point where the system can be deployed toapplications other than database interfaces.
The mappinginto the DRC makes it possible to port the system to anyrelational query language.The real advance made in this system is the economyof its datamodel.
It sets out how each word in thedictionary is to be understood w.r.t, the current databaseby direct mapping: no world knowledge or inference isrequired.
Unknown words are filled in by typingconstraints associated with domains in the datamodel.No loss of expressiveness i  entailed: this is hardlysurprising as all a world model would seek to do is to (i)exaggerate ambiguity w.r.t, how a user might perceivethe world, in order to (ii) reduce that ambiguity w.r.t.what the current database can provide.
Under this view,step (i) is totally superfluous.
The resulting gain incustomisation effort is paramount.SQUIRREI.
's ambiguity management s rategy is tooffer users a choice between all interpretations that havesurvived the mapping into SQL.
Note that at each stagein the mapping, alternative r presentations may emerge,or existing ones may die off.
The most powerfuldisambiguation tool is the exploitation Of typingconstraints associated with the database itself.2.
Modality: the spin-offSQUIRREl.
demonstrates that a NLFE can supplyinformation which is not open to even proficient querylanguage users.
Relational databases are associated withintegrity constraints to provide consistency of dataacross modifications over time.
These constraints are notvisible to users.
It is possible to view such constraints asgoverning "possible" legal states of the database, thecurrent database being one.
As such, they can be used toanswer modal queries about alternative states of affairs.When SQUIRREL is faced with a modal query, itattempts an update (via SQL), which would change thedatabase into the required state.
If the update is rejected,it collects feed-back as to which constraints have beenviolated and offers it to the user.
By doing this, thesystem turns any database with integrity constraints intoa "knowledge" base, without the need for explicitinference.References\[1 \] De Roeck, A., C. Fox, B. Lowden, R. Turner andB.
Walls, A Natural Language System based on FormalSemantics, International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, Penang, Malaysia, 1991.\[2\] Turner, R. A Theory of Properties, Journal ofSymbolic Logic, Vol 52 no2., 1987474
