I TS -2  : an interactive personal translation systemEric Wehrli and Mira RamluckunDept.
of Linguistics- LATLUniversity of Geneva1211 Geneva 4email: wehrli@uni2a.unige.chITS-2 is an interactive sentence translation systemunder development at the LATL lab of the Univer-sity of Geneva.
In its current status, ITS-2 trans-lates French sentences into English or English intoFrench over a still restricted vocabulary of approxi-mately 3'000 bilingual entries.
The main objectivesof this project are (i) to show some of the advantagesof interactive approaches to NL translation, (ii) todemonstrate he merits of generative grammar as asyntactic model for MT, (iii) to show the feasibilityof personal translation on small personal computers(under MS-Windows).ITS-2 is based on the familiar transfer architec-ture, with its three main components, parser, trans-fer and generation.
The parser - -  which is the IPSparser described in Wehrli (1992)-- associates withan input sentence a set of syntactic structures corre-sponding to GI3 S-structures, i.e.
surface structuresenriched with traces of moved elements and otherempty categories.
The role of the transfer componentis to map source structures onto target structures.Transfer, which occurs at the D-structure level, is toa large extent a matter of lexical correspondence.For each lexical head of a SL structure, the lexi-cal transfer component consults the bilingual lexiconto retrieve the most appropriate TL item, which isthen projected according to the X-bar specificationsof the TL.
Applied recursively over the whole SL D-structure, this process determines an equivalent TLD-structure.
From these structures, the generationcomponent derives well-formed S-structures, whichare finally converted into the target sentence by mor-phological process.The current demonstration version of ITS-2 runsunder MS-Windows.
Integrated within a small edit-ing environment, it translates in real time a wide se-lection of sentences (French to English, or English toFrench) over a large range of grammatical construc-tions including simple and complex declaratives, in-terrogatives, relatives, passives, cliticization , somecases of coordination, efc.The system is interactive in the sense that it canrequest on-line information from the user.
Typically,interaction takes the form of clarification dialoguesor selection windows.
Interaction can occur at sev-eral levels of the translation process.
First, at thelexicographic level, if an input sentence contains un-known words or typos.
In such cases, the user isasked to correct or modify the sentence.
At the syn-tactic level, interaction occurs when the parser facesdifficult cases of ambiguity, such as, for instance,when the resolution of an ambiguity depends on con-textual or extra-linguistic knowledge, as the case ofsome prepositional phrase attachments or coordinatestructures.By far, the most frequent cases of interaction oc-cur during lexical transfer, due to the fact that lexicalcorrespondences are generally of the many-to-manyvariety, even at the abstract level of lexemes.
It isalso at this level that our decision (not yet imple-mented) to try to restrict dialogues to the sourcelanguage is the most challenging.
While some casesof polysemy can be disambiguated relatively easilyfor instance on the basis of SL gender distinction,as in (1), other cases such as the (much simplified)ones in (2)-(3) are obviously much harder to han-dle, unless additional information is included in thebilingual dictionary.(1)a.
Jean regarde les voiles.
'Jean is looking at the sails/veils'(1)b. voiles:-maseulin (le voile)-fdminin (la voile)(2)a. Jean n'aime pas les avocats.
'Jean doesn't like lawyers/avocadoes'(2)b. avocats:-homme de loi-fruitAnother common case of interaction that occursduring transfer concerns the interpretation of pro-nouns, or rather the determination of their an-tecedent.
In an sentence such as (3), the possessiveson could refer either to Jean, to Marie or (less likely)to some other person, depending on contexts.
(3) Jean dit ~ Marie que son livre se vend bien.
'Jean told Marie that his/her book is selling well'In such a case, a dialogue box specifying all pos-sible (SL) antecedents is presented to the user, whocan select the most appropriate one(s).In future work we intend to restrict the clarifi-cation dialogue to SL, to make ITS-2 available tomonolingual users.REFERENCES .Wehrli, E. 1992.
"The IPS system".
COLING92.476
