A Semant ics  and  Pragmat ics  for the  P luper fec tAlex Lascarides*Centre for Cognitive Science andHuman Communication Research CentreUniversity of Edinburgh2, Buccleuch PlaceEdinburgh EH8 9LW, Scotland, UKalexl~k, ac.
ed.
copc iNicholas AsherIRIT, Umvermt~ Paul Sabatier118 Route de Narboane31062 Toulouse Cedex, Francealso at: Centre for Cognitive Science andDepartment of philosophyUniversity of Texas, Austinasher l i r i t  .
i tAbst rac tWe offer a semantics and pragmatics of thepluperfect in narrative discourse.
We rex-amine in a formal model of implicature,how the reader's knowledge about the dis-course, Gricean-maxims and causation con-tribute to the meaning of the pluperfect.By placing the analysis in a theory wherethe interactions among these knowledge re-sources can be precisely computed, we over-come some problems with previous Re-ichenbachian approaches.1 In t roduct ionIn this paper, we investigate the impact of the plu-perfect ense on the temporal and rhetorical struc-ture of narrative discourse.
We will use a represen-tation framework for discourse structure called SDRT(standing for Segmented Discourse RepresentationTheory) (Asher 1993), and a theory of discourse at-tachment called DICE (standing for Discourse andCommonsense Entailment), which is designed tocompute temporal implicatures for natural languagetexts (Lascarides and Asher 1991).
We will arguethat the resultant analysis overcomes problems withReichenbachian theories of tense (e.g., Kamp 1991a).2 Limitations of Kamp's AccountKamp's (1991a) Reichenbachian ccount of the plu-perfect is problematic n at least three ways.
Firstly,the temporal structure of a text is determined solely*The support of the Science and Engineering ResearchCouncil through project number GR/G22077 is grate-fully acknowledged.
HCRC is supported by the Economicand Social Research Council.from syntax, so there can be no explanation of whyeven though (1) has the same tense structure as (2),they are interpreted ifferently: no order is inferredbetween the events in (1b-d) while there is temporalprogression i  (2b-d).
(1) a. Alexis was a very good girl by the timeshe went to bed yesterday.b.
She had helped her mum withthe house-work.c.
She had practised her piano.d.
She had done all her homework.e.
We all felt very good about it.
(2) a. Max arrived at the summit at midday.b.
He had got up at 5:30am,c.
had prepared his lunch, andd.
had passed base camp before 7am.Intuitively, the order of events in (2b-d) is inferredfrom causal knowledge about the typical orders be-tween the events and by the temporal informationconveyed by the list structure.
In contrast, there isno knowledge that enables uch an inference in (lb-d).
An explanation i  these terms requires us tosolve the Interaction Problem: The anMysis of thepluperfect must interact in precise and systematicways with the reader's causal knowledge, pragmaticmaxims and the discourse type to yield appropri-ate temporal structures.
Kamp's yntactic-based ac-count fails to specify such interactions.The second problem is that, in line with the Re-ichenbachian approach, the semantics of tense ap-peals only to temporal relations.
But consider texts(3) to (5).
(3) Max entered the room.
He poured himself acup of coffee.250(4) ?Max poured himself a cup of coffee.
He hadentered the room.
(5) Max poured himself a cup of coffee.
He hadentered the room feeling depressed, but nowhe felt much better.Texts (3) and (4) attempt o describe similar tem-poral relations, and yet only (3) is acceptable.
Simi-larly, (4) and (5) describe similar temporal relationsbetween the first event mentioned and the second,but only (5) is acceptable.
One can view (3) to (5)as a manifestation of contextual relevance; a similarview is proposed in Caenepeel and SandstrSm (1992).One event being in the consequent s ate of the otheris sufficient for simple past tensed text to satisfy theContextual Relevance Constraint (eft (3)), but itwon't do for the pluperfect in (4), although the ad-ditional information i  (5) ameliorates (4)'s incoher-ence.
We can thus think of the pluperfect as a dis-course marker that indicates that the range of possi-ble connections that would make the clause 'contex-tually relevant' is restricted (relative to the possibil-ities for the simple past).
This yields the RelevanceProblem: The analysis of the pluperfect must takeContextual Relevance into account.
Kamp (1991a)fails to explain the incoherence of(4) because the Re-ichenbachian analysis doesn't solve this problem: tosolve it, a Reiehenbachian semantics of tense wouldhave to be extended so that it considers causal andrhetorical connections, as well as temporal relations.A third problem with the Reichenbachian ccountof tense is that the purely temporal specification failsto explain why the pluperfect clause can initiate aperspective shift such as those that occur in free in-direct style, where the control over the propositionshifts from the author to a character in the text(Leech and Short 1981, Quirk et al 1985).
For ex-ample, consider text (6), taken from Nakhimovsky(1988):(6) a.
The telephone rang.b.
It was Mme Dupont.c.
Her husband had eaten too many oystersfor lunch.d.
The doctor recommended a change inlifestyle(6c) initiates free indirect style: Control over theproposition in (6c) is shifted from the author to MmeDupont, because in contrast o (6b), (6c) reportsMine Dupont's perceptions (of what was said overthe phone).
The pluperfect plays a crucial role increating free indirect style in (6), for replacing it withthe simple past would mean that the author's per-spective is maintained:(6) d. Her husband ate too many oysters forlunch.This yields the Perspective Problem: The semanticframework used must be able to represent perspec-tive, such as those that occur in indirect speech.
Al-though Discourse Representation Theory (DRT) is arich semantic framework in which perspective can berepresented, the analysis of tense in DgT presentedin (Kamp 1991a) fails to exploit this.
All purely Re-ichenbachian treatments oftense fail to capture shiftsin perspective, because they don't take into accountthe information status of the clauses concerned.In order to solve the Interaction, Relevance andPerspective Problems, we will formalise the discourserole of the pluperfect using two tools: a semantically-based theory of discourse structure called SVgT, anda formal theory of discourse attachment called DICE.Using these tools, we model both the pluperfect's se-mantic and pragmatic ontributions to discourse.
Incontrast o Kamp (1991a), we will examine the rolethat the reader's background knowledge plays in in-terpreting the pluperfect ense, and provide analy-ses of the above texts.
The reason we devote atten-tion to a formal account is because we assume thatthe reader's various knowledge resources on occasionyield conflicting conclusions about discourse struc-ture (cf.
Hobbs 1985, Lascarides and Asher 1991),and resolving the conflicts is arbitrary unless sup-ported by an underlying logical consequence r lation.3 A Descr ip t ion  of  SDRT and DICEWe start with a brief overview of SDRT and DICE.SDRT (Asher 1993) takes the basic building blocksof discourse structure to be propositions with a dy-namic content, which are represented as DaSs--therepresentation scheme in Kamp's (1981) DRT.
How-ever, discourse relations may also obtain betweenmore complex structures---segmented DRSs (SDgSs),which are defined recursively.
In SDRT, an NL textis represented by an SDRS, which is a pair of setscontaining respectively: the DgSs or SDgSS repre-senting respectively sentences or text segments, anddiscourse relations between them.
These structuresare constructed in a dynamic, incremental fashion.The default assumption is that the sentence bound-ary marks the unit of information to be attached tothe SDRS for the preceding discourse.Discourse relations modelled after those proposedby Hobbs (1985) and Thompson and Mann (1987)link together the constituents of an SDRS.
We willuse seven discourse relations: Narration, Elabora-tion, Explanation, Background, Continuation, Par-allel and Contrast.
The first four of these constraintemporal structure: Narration entails that the de-scriptive order of events matches their temporal or-der; an Explanation or Elaboration entail they mis-match; and Background entails temporal overlap.The recursive nature of SDRSs gives discoursestructures a hierarchical configuration.
Certain dis-course relations in an SDRS impose a hierarchicalstructure; these subordinating relations are Elabo-ration and Explanation.
The so-called open con-stituents to which new information can attach arethe previous constituent or constituents it elaboratesor explains.
Thus the open clauses are those on the251right frontier of the discourse structure (cf.
Polanyi1985, Grosz and Sidner 1986, Webber 1991), assum-ing that it is built in a depth first left to right manner.SDRT specifies which parts of the SDRS are avail-able to the representation f the current sentence forattachment via a discourse relation.
DICE providesthe means to infer from the reader's knowledge re-sources which discourse relation should be used to doattachment.
DICE makes the following claims.
Thecurrent sentence is attached to the preceding SDRSwith a discourse relation; the process by which thisis done takes the reader's background knowledge intoaccount, and the resulting SDRS determines how timeis structured in the discourse.
Here, we assume thereader's knowledge base (KB) contains: the SDRS forthe text so far; the logical form of the current sen-tence; an assumption that that logical form mustattach at an open site (i.e., the text is coherent);all defeasible and indefeasible world and pragmaticknowledge; and the laws of logic.The rules introduced below are shown in Las-carides and Asher (1991) to be manifestations ofGricean-style pragmatic maxims and world knowl-edge; we assume they form part of the reader's KB.A formal notation makes clear both the logical struc-ture of these rules, and the problems involved incalculating implicature.
Let (% a,/3) be the updatefunction, which means "the representation v of thetext so far, of which c~ is an open node, is to be up-dated with the representation/3 of the current sen-tence via a discourse relation with a".
Let a 4~/3mean that a is a topic for/3; let ea be a term refer-ring to the main eventuality described by the clausea; and let fall(m, ea) mean that this event is a Maxfalling.
Let el -4 e2 mean the eventuality el precedese2, and cause(el, e2) mean ?1 causes e2.
Finally, werepresent the defeasible connective as a conditional >(so ~ > ~b means 'if ql, then normally ~b').
The max-ims for modelling implicature are then representedas schemas:?
Naxration: (% a, 13) > Narration(a,/3)?
Ax iom on llaxration:(Ua  ation(a,/3)?
States Overlap:(r, a,/3) A state(e#) > overlap(e,, e#)?
Background:(,', a,/3) A overlap( e~ ,eo ) > Background(a,/3)?
Axiom on Background:iT(Background(a,/3) -+ overlap( e~ ,ea ) )?
Continuation:(r,/3, 7) A a .\[J./3 > Continuation(~3, 7)?
Continuing Discourse Patterns:D((r, a, 7)Aa 4~/3A ~b(o~,/3) A Continuation(~3, 7)- -  v ) )?
Causes Precede Effects:D(cause(e2, el) ~ -~el -~ e2)The rules for Narration and its Axiom convey in-formation about the pragmatic effects of the tex-tual order of events; by default, textual order mir-rors temporal order.
States Overlap, Backgroundand its Axiom convey the pragmatic effects derivedfrom aktionsart information (states normally providebackground information).
Continuation and Contin-uing Discourse Patterns convey the pragmatic effectsof the preceding discourse structure; they state thatnormally, the current clause 7 continues to describethe same topic a as the preceding clause/3 did (forin SDRT, Continuation(~3, 7) entails/3 and 7 have thesame topic a), and 7 is related to a by the same dis-course relation.
Finally, that Causes Precede theirEffects is indefeasible world knowledge.The logic on which DICE rests is Asher and Mor-reau's (1991) Commonsense Entailment (CE).
Threepatterns of nonmonotonic nference are particularlyrelevant.
The first is Defeasible Modus Ponens: ifone default rule has its antecedent verified, then theconsequent is nonmonotonicaily nferred.
The sec-ond is the Penguin Principle: if there are conflictingdefault rules that apply, and their antecedents arein logical entailment relations, then the consequentof the rule with the most specific antecedent is in-ferred.
The third is the Nixon Diamond: if there areconflicting default rules that apply but no logical re-lations between the antecedents, then no conclusionsare inferred.In interpreting text (7), the KB contains (a, a,/3),where a and/3 are respectively the logical forms ofthe first and second sentences.
(7) Max stood up.
John greeted him.
(8) Max opened the door.
The room was pitchdark.The only rule that applies is Narration, and its con-sequent is inferred via Defeasible Modus Ponens.Hence by logical omniscience, the standing up pre-cedes the greeting.
In contrast, text (8) verifies theantecedents o two conflicting defeasible laws: Nar-ration and States Overlap.
By the Penguin Prin-ciple, States Overlap wins, because its antecedentlogically entails Narration's.
In turn, this entailsthat the antecedent to Background is verified; andwhilst conflicting with Narration, it's more specific,and hence its consequent--Background--follows bythe Penguin Principle.
We call this double applica-tion of the Penguin Principle the Cascaded PenguinPrinciple.
1The Nixon Diamond provides the key to text inco-herence (Lascarides and Asher, 1991).
If the reader'sknowledge resources are in irresolvable conflict, no1The formal details of how the logic CE models theseinterpretations axe given in Lascaxides and Asher (inpress).
Although the Cascaded Penguin Principle, as in(8), is not valid in general, they show that for the partic-ular case considered here, CE validates it.252conclusions about the discourse structure can be in-ferred.
DICE exploits this account of incoherence inits approach to discourse popping.
When a NixonDiamond occurs in attempting to attach the currentclause to the previous one, they don't form a coher-ent text segment.
So the current clause must attachto one of the other open clauses, resulting in dis-course popping.4 The Semantics of the PluperfectDICE represents temporal information in two places:first, in the DRS representing a sentence; and second,in the discourse relations.
Because of these two lev-els, we can preserve sentential equivalence betweenthe simple past and pluperfect, while still maintain-ing that these tenses play different roles in discourse,by ensuring that different default rules for discourseattachment apply.
We pursue such an analysis ofthe pluperfect here, because in contrast o Hamann(1989), it enables us to provide a uniform semanticsof tense which explains why the simple past and plu-perfect are equivalent in sentences containing tempo-ral connectives, but different in discourse (see Las-caxides and Asher 1992).The logical forms of (9) and (10) are respectively(9') and (10').
(9) John greeted Maxe,tgreet(j, m, e)(9') hold(e,t)t ..< now(10) John had greeted Maxs,t(10') \[ s = cs(e)hold(s, t)t -4 nowIn (9~), the discourse referent e is a John greetingMax event, which holds at the time t preceding now.In (10~), s is the consequent state of the event ofJohn greeting Max, and it holds at the time t whichprecedes now.
So our semantics of the perfect is likethat in Moens and Steedman (1988): a perfect rans-forms an event into a consequent state, and assertsthat the consequent state holds.
The pluperfect ofa state, such as (11), therefore, is assumed to firstundergo a transformation i to an event.
(11) John had loved Mary.The event is usually the inceptive reading of thestate in this case, John started to love Mary--although this can vary with the context.
Then, thepluperfect asserts that the consequent state of thisevent holds--in this case, the consequent s ate is thestate of John loving Mary itself.We forego defining the function cs which takesevents to consequent s ates here for reasons of space,but see Lascaxides (1988) and Blackburn and Las-caxides (1992) for a proposed semantics.
We do, how-ever, assume that the following relationship holds be-tween an event and its consequent s ate:?
Consequent S ta tes :ra(Vt)( hold(cs(e), t) ~ (3t')( hold(e, t') A t' -4 t) )m(?t')( hoid( e, t') ~ (3t )(hold( cs( e ), t) ^  t' -< t ) )So a consequent s ate holds if and only if the eventholds at an earlier time.
This relationship meansthat (9') and (10') are truth conditionally equivalent,under the usual assumption that time is dense.
Theyonly differ in terms of which eventualities are avail-able for future anaphoric reference.
This equivalenceis in sharp contrast o all Reichenbachian treatmentsof the tenses.The main eventuality in (10) is the consequentstate s of John having greeted Max.
But sometimesin discourse attachment i  is useful to refer in therules of attachment to the event of John greetingMax itself, which is embedded in (10').
To do this,we define a function ev on eventualities:ev(e) = { e' if e = cs(e')e otherwise5 The Pragmatics of the PluperfectWe now show how the discourse role of the pluperfectcan be captured.
We argued earlier that the rangeof possibilities for connecting a pluperfect clause toa simple past tensed one is smaller than the rangeof possibilities allowed for connecting a simple pasttensed clause to a simple past tensed one (cf.
(3) vs.(4)).
We will show that to account for the abovedata, the discourse relations permitted between asimple past and pluperfect are exactly Elaboration,Explanation, Parallel and Contrast.
This would bewhat one would intuitively expect, for these are theonly discourse relations we consider that are compat-ible with a backwards movement of time in discourse,and the pluperfect in general indicates this temporalstructure.We represent this constraint as defeasible knowl-edge, for (12) is an exception:?
Constra int  When Changing Tense (CCT):(r, c~, fl) A sp(cr) A pp(/3) > Cpp(a, fl)(12) Max left the house at 7am.
He had passedthe station by 9:lSam.CCT states that.
if a pluperfect clause /3 is to be at-tached to a simple past tensed clause a, then thediscourse relation between them must be defined byCry, which is the condition that the consequent s atedescribed in the pluperfect must include the eventu-ality described in the simple past, and furthermore.one of Elaboration, Explanation, Parallel and Con-trast must hold.
Elaboration and Explanation im-pose a backwards movement of time in discourse by253their semantics.
The temporal condition of inclusionimposed by Cpp ensures that, if the discourse rela-tion between a stative simple past sentence and thepluperfect one is Parallelor Contrast, then the back-wards movement of time between the eventualitiesdescribed still holds, as we will see shortly.5.1 A Simple ExAmpleFirst we consider CCT'S impact on text (13), andcontrast his with VlCV.
's analysis of text (7).
(13) Max stood up.
John had greeted him.In the interpretationof (13), the rules that apply are:Narration, States Overlap and CCT.
By the Pen-guin Principle, one infers that the consequent stateof greeting and standing up overlap (by States Over-lap), and that the clauses are related by Cpp.
In addi-tion, the Greeting Law below captures the intuitionthat if a standing up and a greeting are connected,and moreover, we know that the connection is Cpp,then in the absence of information to the contrary,the relation Explanation is preferred in that context(for out of the four choices, John's greeting Max ex-plaining why Max stood up is the most plausible).?
6reefing Law:( ( r, a,/3) A standup( ev( ea ) ) A greeting( ev( e# )) Ac.
(a./3))  > En.tanation(a./3)Now Background and the Greeting Law apply, andone infers Background(a,/3) and Explanation(a,/3).2So the consequent state of the greeting is in forcewhen Max stands up, and the greeting explains whyMax stood up.
Thus CCT helps us model the differ-ence between (7) and (13).CCT overcomes a flaw in the semantics of the plu-perfect presented in (Lascarides and Asher in press);there, the constraint was presented as indefeasible,and consequently was unable to explain (12).
Mak-ing CCT defeasible has also changed the inferencepattern underlying the analysis of (13).
Whereas inLascarides and Asher (in press) Cpp(a,/3) is inferredmonotonically from the premises by modus ponens;here, the inference pattern is the Penguin Principle.5.2 An Example  of  IncoherenceNow consider texts (3) and (4); we infer that thediscourse relation connecting the sentences in (3) isNarration.
(3) Max entered the room.
He poured himself acup of coffee.
(4) ?Max poured himself a cup of coffee.
He hadentered the room.The laws that apply in the analysis of (4) are Nar-ration, States Overlap and COT.
As in the analysisof (13), overlap(ea,e#) and Cpp(a,/3) are inferred.However, our knowledge about pouring coffee and2As in the Cascaded Penguin Principle, we can divideup the nonmonotonic reasoning in this way in this case.entering a room means that we don't have a law likethe Greeting Law which allows us to infer which re-lation permitted by Cpp is most plausible.
So wefail to infer which of the four permitted iscourserelations holds for (4).
And we assume that know-ing one of a set of discourse relations must hold, butnot being able to infer which actually holds, is suffi-cient grounds for incoherence.
The Nixon Diamondmentioned earlier, which leads to incoherence, is aspecific case of this.Now consider text (5).
(5) Max poured himself a cup of coffee.
He hadentered the room feeling depressed, but nowhe felt much better.The default assumption in DICE is that one con-structs the DRSS for whole sentences before one at-tempts discourse attachment.
Using rules for con-structing DRSs, the logical forms of the sentences in(5) are respectively a and/3.el , t lpour(j, coffee, el)(a) hold(el, tl)tl -4 now82, t2, 83, t3| = cs(e2)hold(s2, t2)(#) t2 -~ nowfeel-better(j, sa )hold(s3, t3)t3 -4 nowoverlap( s2, e 1)t2 -4 t3The conditions that the event el of pouring coffeeoverlaps with the state s2 of having entered the roomarises from the discourse use of now in /3.
Nowwe must relate /3 to a with a discourse relation.The rules that apply are States Overlap and Nar-ration.
CCT does not apply, because we are not re-lating a pluperfect clause to a simple past tensedone.
By the Cascaded Penguin Principle, we inferBackground(a,/3).
Thus the second sentence in (5)describes the background circumstances when Maxpoured himself the coffee.
Unlike (4), we do no havea situation where we fail to infer which of the per-mitted set of discourse relations holds, and so (5) iscoherent.If the comma in (5) is replaced with a full stop,then upon failing to attach the second sentence tothe first (as in (4)), one attempts to attach the thirdsentence to the second to obtain an SDRS which onethen attempts to attach to the first sentence.
At thispoint, CCT won't apply, and so as in (5), we don'thave a situation where we are unable to infer which ofthe permitted iscourse relations holds.
So the text254is predicted to be coherent.
The above accounts of(3) to (5) show that the Relevance Problem is solved.5.3 Parallel and ContrastWe now give an example of a text in which the rela-tion Contrast occurs together with a change in tensefrom the simple past to the pluperfect.
(14) John was lazy now.
But he had worked veryhard for several years.When analysing (14), SDRT will yield two con-stituents a and ~ representing the respective sen-tences.
The presence of the particle but forces a con-trast relation between a and fl, but an incoherentSDRS may result if the relation is not verified by thesemantic ontent and structure of the constituentsthemselves.The semantics of Parallel and Contrast areexplored in depth in Asher (1993).
Briefly,Paralle~a, ~) or Contrast(a, fl) hold just in case theconstituents a and /~ have a particular semanticstructure and content.
The semantic structure re-quired by Parallel and Contrast is defined in termsof embedding trees.
Each constituent has an embed-ding tree, which depicts the hierarchical structure ofthe constituent SDRSs and the hierarchical structureof the DRSs in the SDRSs.
The embedding trees forthe two constituents a and fl of (14) are given below.The embedded DRS ff  in the embedding tree for flrepresents he subVRS that characterizes the event ofworking hard introduced by the pluperfect.\]Briefly, Paralle~a, fl) requires that there is a pair-ing of nodes in the embedding trees of a and fl suchthat each pair contains two semantically and struc-turally similar objects.
Contrast(a,~), on the otherhand, involves a pairing of nodes from the embed-ding tree of a and the embedding tree of fl, suchthat at least some pairs contain structurally similarbut semantically dissimilar objects.
Similarity anddissimilarity are exhibited by means of an assignmentof polarities (+, - )  to nodes.
Both nodes get + whenthey are similar, one gets + and the other - whenthey are dissimilar.
Given a pragmatic constraint ofnovelty or informativeness, no two constituents canbe perfectly parallel.Echoing the distinction between topic and focusor given information and new, Asher (1993) isolatesfor each constituent a theme; the constraints on pos-sible themes are specified in (Asher 1993).
Themesmay contain arguments and conditions of the SDRSsin question; in general, the more of the conditions ofa constituent that a theme covers the stronger theparallel or contrast relation it supports.
Parallelismbetween two constituents i  maximized when thereis a common theme and it is as maximal as is com-patible with informativeness.
Contrast is maximallyplausible when themes are complementary or evencontraries.
Plausible contrast is defined with respectto CE: A plausibly contrasts with B if the KB entailsA > -,B or B > -,A.In our example (14) above, the theme of a thatis maximal with respect to supporting Contrastunder the mapping of nodes suggested below islazy(el,j) while the corresponding theme of ff iswork-hard(e2,j).
When paired together the KB im-plies that they are plausibly contrastive, assumingthat world knowledge is stated as intuitions woulddictate.
Thus, contrasting polarities are assigned tothe paired nodes and Contrast(a, fl) is verified, asis required by the presence of but.
Thus, the SDgScoherently supports Contrast.aContrast does not determine any temporal orderby itself.
However, Contrast is compatible withCpp(a, fl), which is inferred in DICE by the PenguinPrinciple.
Cpp(a, fl) will force us to conclude thatthe consequent state e# includes ea, which is thestate of John being lazy.
Because of the ConsequentStates axiom, we can infer from this that the eventof working hard precedes John being lazy.
In addi-tion, Contrast is compatible with Background, andso in this particular case DICE will also force us toinfer Background(a, fl), since (i) ea is a state, (ii) byStates Overlap, c~ by default overlaps e~, and (iii)by Background, this overlap will by default implyBackground(a, ~).5.4 Perspective ShiftThe analysis of (6) will exploit information flow be-tween the lexicon and discourse attachment.
(6) a.
The telephone rang.
ab.
It was Mme Dupont.
flc.
Her husband had eaten too many oystersfor lunch.
7d.
The doctor recommended a change inlifestyle.
6The analysis of (6) proceeds as follows: let the logicalforms of the sentences be respectively a to 6.
First weconsider the lexical information i  a. Pustejovsky's(1991) representation f lexical entries for artifacts255e, t ,  z ,  p, so, tOhold(e,t)t -< nowring(telephone, e)say(z,p, so)hold(so,to)~J, ElaborationpC_W, S, t thusband(w, d)":\[='-" I \[ eat-too-many-oysters(w, e) hold(s, t')t t ~ nowt' -4 toFigure 1: The SDRS representing Text (6)includes a representation f their telic roles, whichintuitively define the purpose of the artifact.
Weassume that the telic role of a telephone is to have aconversation.
This telic role invokes three thematicroles, identified below by z (the speaker), p (the thingthat's aid), and y (the listener).?
F rom the  Lex icon :telephone > z said that p to yThis lexical information i fluences discourse attach-ment: upon attempting to attach 8 to a, the readerinfers that Mme Dupont can fill the role z, and so bydefault, she does.
Having identified Mme Dupont asfilling this role, the rule Elaboration below applies.Elaboration captures the intuition that if 8 is to beattached to a with a discourse relation, and 8 iden-tities a role in a, then normally, Elaboration(a,8)holds.?
E laborat ion :(% a, 8) A/3 identifies a role in a >Elaboration(a, 8)By the Penguin Principle on Narration and Elabora-tion, Elaboration(a, 8) is inferred.Now the task is to update this SDRS with 7: aand 8 are both open constituents.
Caenepeel (1989)argues that if the discourse context induces apsycho-logical perspective of a protagonist z, and the clausecurrently being processed is stative, then that cur-rent clause is interpreted with respect o z's pointof view.
In this example, the context provided bya does induce a psychological perspective becausethe above telic role invokes the propositional tti-tude said that.
Furthermore, 7 is in the pluperfect,and therefore is stative.
This motivates Caenepeel'sAxiom below: it states that a pluperfect sentence 7by default identifies the proposition p in the propo-sitional attitude ~b invoked by a:?
Caenepeel's Axiom:(r, a, 7) A PP(7) A ~(a, p) > 7 identifies pNow consider the reasoning behind attaching 7to the preceding open constituent a.
The rulesthat apply are Narration, States Overlap, COT andCaenepeel's Axiom.
Nothing in the reader's KB con-flicts with the consequent ofCaenepeel's Axiom, andso its consequent is inferred; i.e., 7 identifies p. CCTconflicts with Narration, and so Upp(a, 7) is inferredby the Penguin Principle.
Because 7 identifies p,Elaboration applies, and whilst conflicting with Nar-ration, it's more specific, and so Elaboration(a, 7) isinferred.
Elaboration(a,8) entails a # 8 by Elabo-ration's semantics in SDRT.
So in attaching 7 to 8,Continuation fires and Continuation(8, 7) is inferred.The full representation f (6) is given in figure 1.The relic role for telephone has been identified, andso say(z,p, so) is added to the DRS representing a.
8and 7's DRS conditions then identify the roles: d = z256in ~ (i.e., Mine Dupont is the speaker on the phone),and p C_ 7 in 7 (i.e., what was said over the phoneis denoted by 7).
So, ot contains a propositional tti-tude of saying, which given the other DRSS, holds be-tween Mme Dupont and the proposition denoted by7.
3 Thus the representation f (6) encodes the per-spective shift that occurs when interpreting 7, andso solves the Perspective Problem.
And note thatelaborations can actually affect he truth conditionsof DgSS by specifying arguments of event types: inthis case, recognising the elaboration enabled - zand p _C 7 to be added to the DRS conditions.5.5 Attaching Pluperfects TogetherNow consider text (1).
(1) a. Alexis was a very good girl by the timeshe went to bed yesterday.b.
She had helped her mum with the house-work.c.
She had practised her piano.d.
She had done all her homework.e.
We all felt very good about it.One infers Elaboration between (la) and each of thepluperfect clauses (lb), (lc) and (ld) using a similarstrategy to that outlined in the analysis of (13).
Wenow examine in detail how the pluperfect clauses arerelated to each Other.
(lb) is an open clause to (lc),and just as in (8), Background is inferred via the Cas-caded Penguin Principle: the pair of conflicting lawsare States Overlap and Narration and Backgroundand Narration.
Continuation also applies, given theElaboration relations already inferred, and so Con-tinuation is inferred; Continuation conflicting withneither Background nor Narration.
4 A similar lineof reasoning applies when attaching (ld) to the open(lc), and so one infers Background and Continuationto relate these constituents a  well.
Finally, furtherpragmatic knowledge that is encoded in race form aNixon Diamond when attempting to attach (le) to(ld) thus inducing a discourse pop to (la) (we omitthe details of this here).
Thus the discourse structure3 We have used the traditional representation f propo-sitional attitudes in DRT, outlined in Asher (1986),Kamp (1991b) and Zeevat (1986).
*Again, the predicates are sufficiently independentthat we can divide up the nonmonotonic reasoning inthis way.of (1) can be pictorially represented as follows:BackgroundlaE l a b o r a ~lb ' lc " ldContinuation ' ContinuationBackground Background' leAll we have inferred for (1b-d) is that the conse-quent States overlap; this doesn't constrain the rel-ative starts of the states.
So the events describedin the pluperfect clauses remain unordered, in agree-ment with intuitions.A more specific rule than States Overlap, if con-flicting with it, may induce orderings among the plu-perfect clauses.
In the analysis of (2), we assumethere are more specific rules than States Overlap,that convey (a) the pragmatic effects of list-type dis-course structures; and (b) knowledge concerning thenormal course of events when climbing a mountain.These rules favour Narration being inferred, by de-fault.
And by the Penguin Principle, these laws deemStates Overlap irrelevant, and so we will infer Nar-ration, rather than Background, between the pluper-fect clauses in (2).
Narration imposes precedencerelations between the consequent s ates, and so thetextual order of the events matches their temporalorder.
Thus DICE provides the means to solve theInteraction Problem.6 Conc lus ionWe have solved some critical problems about theway the pluperfect tense affects the temporal struc-ture and rhetorical structure of narrative text.
Wehave argued that contrary to the Reichenbachian p-proach, the discourse role of the pluperfect must akethe reader's background knowledge into account.
Wehave provided an anMysis in which the pluperfect isviewed as a syntactic discourse marker, which indi-cates that only a restricted set of discourse relationsare permitted inorder to attach the current clause tothe preceding text.
We viewed the simple past andpluperfect as sententiaily equivalent, although theyplay distinct discourse roles because of the differentconstraints hey impose on coherent discourse.When attaching a pluperfect sentence to a simplepast tensed one, the task is to infer which of thefour discourse relations Ezplanation, Parallel, Con-trast or Elaboration hold.
Information about causa-tion can be used to infer Ezplanation.
Informationabout structural and semantic similarities and dis-similarities can be used to infer Parallel and Con-trast.
And information obtained from the lexiconcan be used to infer Elaboration.
For example, the257lexicon provides potential thematic roles which thepluperfect clause can identify: if it does, then this re-sults in an Elaboration at the discourse l vel.
In thissense, the pluperfect provides a forum in which toexplore how information at the lexical evel interactswith information at the discourse level.In the light of this, analysing the pluperfect re-quires an integrated account of lexical and discourseprocessing.
But this is beyond the scope of this pa-per.
Further esearch must be pursued in lexical se-mantics, that addresses the problem of how rhetori-cal information influences lexical processing.
Like-wise, the theory of discourse attachment must beaugmented with a detailed account of how informa-tion flows from the lexicon to the textual level.
Bothof these issues are explored in (Asher and Lasearides1993).AcknowledgementsThanks to Mario Borillo, Myriam Bras, MimoCaenepeel, Uwe Reyle and two anonymous review-ers for their helpful comments on earlier drafts ofthis paper.Re ferences\[Asher, 1986\] Nicholas Asber.
Belief in DiscourseRepresentation Theory.
Linguistics and Philoso-phy, 15:127-189.lasher, 1993\] Nicholas Asher.
Reference to AbstractObjects in English: A Philosophical Semantics forNatural Language Metaphysics.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers.lasher and Lascarides, 1993\] Nicholas Asher andAlex Lascarides.
Lexical Disambiguation in a Dis-course Context.
Proceedings of the InternationalWorkshop on Universals in the Lexicon, Dagstuhl,Germany.lasher and Morreau, 1991\]Nicholas Asher and Michael Morreau.
CommonSense Entailment: A Modal Theory of Nonmono-tonic Reasoning.
Proceedings to the 1Pth Interna-tional Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Sydney Australia, August 1991.\[Blackburn and Lascarides, 1992\]Patrick Blackburn and Alex Lascarides.
Sorts andOperators for Temporal Semantics.
Proceedingsof the Fourth Symposium on Logic and Language,Budapest, Hungary, August 1992.\[Caenepeel, 1989\] Mimo Caenepeel.
Aspect, Tempo-ral Ordering and Perspective in Narrative Fiction.PhD thesis, University of Edinburgh\[Caenepeel and Sandstr/~m, 1992\] Mimo Caenepeeland Goerel SandstrSm.
A Discourse-level Ap-proach to the Past Perfect in Narrative, Proceed-ings of the 4th International Workshop on the Se-mantics of Time, Space and Movement and Tem-poral Reasoning, Toulouse.\[Grosz and Sidner, 1986\] Barbara J. Grosz andCandy L. Sidner.
Attention, Intention, and theStructure of Discourse.
Computational Linguis-tics, 12:175-204.\[Hamann, 1989\] Cornelia Hamann.
English Tempo-ral Clauses in a Reference Frame Model, Schopf,A.
(ed.)
Essays on Tensing in English Volume II:Time, Te~4 and Modality, pp31-153.\[Hobbs, 1985\] Jerry R. Hobbs.
On the Coherenceand Structure of Discourse.
Report No.
CSLI-85-37, Center for the Study of Language and Infor-mation, October, 1985.\[Kamp, 1991a\] Hans Kamp.
The Perfect and OtherTenses in French and English, in Kamp, H.
(ed.
),Tense and Aspect In English and French, DYANAdeliverable 2.3B, available from the Centre forCognitive Science, University of Edinburgh.\[Kamp, 1991b\] Hans Kamp..Procedural nd Cog-nitive Aspects of Propositional Attitude Con-texts.
Lecture Notes for the 3rd European Sum-mer School on Language, Logic and Information,Saarbriicken, Germany.\[Lascarides, 1988\] Alex Lascarides.
A Formal Se-mantic Analysis of the Progressive.
PhD thesis,Centre for Cognitive Science, University of Edin-burgh.\[Lascarides and Asher, 1991\] Alex Lascarides andNicholas Asher.
Discourse Relations and Defea-sibh Knowledge.
Proceedings of the $gth AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pp55-63.\[Lascarides and Asher, 1992\] Alex Lascarides andNicholas Asher.
The Pluperfect in Narrative Dis-course.
Proceedings of the 4th International Work-shop on the Semantics of Time, Space and Move-ment and Temporal Reasoning, Toulouse.\[Lascarides and Asher, in press\] AlexLascarides and Nicholas Asher.
Temporal Inter-pretation, Discourse Relations and CommonsenseEntailment.
o appear in Linguistics and Philoso-phy.\[Leech and Short, 1981\] Geoffrey N. Leech andMichael H. Short.
Style in Fiction Longmans\[Moens and Steedman, 1988\]Marc Moens and Mark J. Steedman.
Temporalontology and temporal reference.
ComputationalLinguistics, 14:15-28.\[Nakhimovsky, 1988\] Alexander Nakhimovsky.
As-pect Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Struc-ture of Narrative.
Computational Linguistics,14(2):29--43.\[Polany~, 1985\] Livia Polanyi.
A Theory of DiscourseStructure and Discourse Coherence.
In Eilfort, W.258H., Kroeber, P. D. and Peterson, K. L.
(eds.)
Pa-pers from the General Session at the Twenty-FirstRegional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistics Soci-ety, Chicago, April 25-27, 1985.\[Pustejovsky, 1991\] James Pustejovsky.
The Gen-erative Lexicon.
Computational Linguistics17(4):409-441.\[Quirk et ai., 1985\] andolph Quirk, Sidney Green-bantu, Geoffrey Leech and Jan Svartvik.
A Com-prehensive Grammar of the English Language.Longman.\[Reichenbach, 1947\] Hans Reichenbach.
Elements ofSymbolic Logic.
London: Macmillan.\[Scha nd Polanyi, 1988\] Remko Scha and LiviaPolanyi.
An augmented context free grammar.Proceedings of the ~th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, pp573-577.\[Thompson and Mann, 1987\]Sandra Thompson and William Mann RhetoricalStructure Theory: A Framework for the Analysisof Texts.
IPRA Papers in Pragmatics, 1:79-105.\[Webber, 1991\] Bonnie Webber.
Structure and Os-tension in the Interpretation of Discourse Deixis,Language and Cognitive Processes, 6(2):107-135.\[Zeevat, 1986\] Henk Zeevat.
A Treatment of Be-lief Sentences in Discourse Representation The-ory, in Groenendijk, J., de Jongh, D. and Stokhof,M.
(eds.)
Studies in Discourse RepresentationTheory and the Theory of Generalized Quanti-tiers, Groningen-Amsterdam Studies in Semantics,FoRIs, pp189-215.259
