A Morphological Analysis Based Method for Spelling CorrectionAduriz I., Agirre E., Alegria I., Arregi X., Arriola J.M, Artola X., Diaz de Ilarraza A.,Ezeiza N., Maritxalar M., Sarasola K., Urkia M.(*)Informatika Fakultatea, Basque Country University.
P.K.
649.
20080 DONOSTIA (Basque Country)(*) U.Z.E.I.
Aldapeta, 20.
20009 DONOSTIA (Basque Country)1 IntroductionXuxen is a spelling checker/corrector f r Basque whichis going to be comercialized next year.
The checkerrecognizes a word-form if a correct morphologicalbreakdown is allowed.
The morphological nalysis isbased on two-level morphology.The correction method distinguishes between ortho-graphic errors and typographical errors.?
Typographical errors (or misstypings) are uncogni-tive errors which do not follow linguistic riteria.?
Orthographic errors are cognitive rrors which occurwhen the writer does not know or has forgotten thecorrect spelling for a word.
They are more persistentbecause of their cognitive nature, they leave worseimpression and, finally, its treatment is an interest-ing application for language standardization purposes.2 Correction Method in XuxenThe main problems found in designing thechecking/correction strategy were:?
Due to the high level of inflection of Basque, it isimpossible to store every word-form in a dictionary;therefore, the mainstream checking/correctionmethods were not suitable.?
Because of the recent standardization a d widespreaddialectal use of Basque, orthographic errors are morelikely and therefore their treatment becomes critical.?
The word-forms which are generated withoutlinguistic knowledge must be fed into the spellingchecker to check whether they are correct or not.In order to face these issues the strategy used isbasically the following (see also Figure 1).Handling orthographic errorsThe treatment of orthographic errors is based on theparallel use of a two-level subsystem designed to detectmisspellings previously typified.
This subsystem hastwo main components:?
Additional two-level rules describing the most likelychanges that are produced in the orthographic errors.Twenty five new rules have been defined to cover themost common orthographic errors.
For instance, therule h: 0 => V:V V:V describes that betweenvowels the h of the lex-:cal level may dissapear in thesurface.
In this way bear ,  typical misspelling ofbehar  (to need), will be detected and corrected.?
Additional morphemes linked to the correspondingcorrect ones.
They describe particular errors, mainlydialectal forms.
Thus, using the new entry t i kan ,dialectal form of the ablative singular, the system isable to detect and correct word-forms as e txe -t i kan ,  ka le t ikan  .... (vm4ants of e txet ik(from me home), ka le t ik  (from me s~eeO .... )~ I~ L --,,~'~', J '=='=Figure 1 - Correcting strategy in XuxenWhen a word-form is not accepted by the checker theorthographic error subsystem is added and the systemretries the morphological checking.
If the incorrect formcan be recognized now (1) the correct lexical evel formis directly obtained and, (2) as the two-level system isbidirectional, the corrected surface form will begenerated from the lexical form.For example, the complete correction process of theword-form bear tzet ikan  (from the need), would bethe following:beart zet ikan$ (t)behar tze tikan(tik)~L (2)behartzetikHandling tyPographical errorsThe treatment of typographical errors is quiteconventional nd performs the following steps:?
Generating proposals to typographical errors usingDamerau's classification.?
Trigram analysis.
Proposals with trigrams below acertain probability treshold are discarded, while therest are classified in order of trigramic probability.?
Spelling checking of proposals.To speed up this treatment the following techniqueshave been used:?
If during the original morphological checking of themisspelled word a correct morpheme has been found,the criteria of Damerau are applied only to the unre-cognized part.
Moreover, on entering the proposalsinto the checker, the analysis tarts from the state itwas at the end of the last recognized morpheme.?
The number of proposals is also limited by filteringthe words containing very low frequency u'igrams.463
