Rule -based  Acqu is i t ion  and Ma intenance  o fLex ica l  and Semant ic  Knowledge *Donna M.  Gates  and Peter  She l lInternet:  dmg@cmu.edu, pshell@cmu.eduCenter for Machine Translat ionCarnegie Mellon University5000 Forbes AvenuePi t tsburgh,  PA 15213U.S.A.AbstractThe lexicons for Knowledge-Based MachineTranslation systems require knowledge in-tensive morphological, syntactic and se-mantic information.
This information is of-ten used in different ways and usually for-matted for a specific NLP system.
Thistends to make both the acquisition andmaintenance of lexical databases cumber-some, inefficient and error-prone.
In orderto solve these problems, we have developeda program called COOL which automatesthe acquisition and maintenance processesand allows us to standardize and central-ize the databases.
This system is currentlybeing used in the ESTRATO machine trans-lation project at the Center for MachineTranslation.1 IntroductionIn this paper, we describe a fully-implemented rule-based system for the semi-automatic a quisitionand maintenance of lexical and semantic knowledgein a knowledge-based machine translation system.This rule-based system is called COOL: Creator Ofontologies and Lexicons.
COOL can create and up-date various lexical and semantic knowledge sourcesfor different NLP modules.COOL is a working system that was developed forESTRATO (EScuela de TRAductores de TOledo), ajoint project of the Center for Machine Translationat CMU and Union Electrica Fenosa, an electric util-ity company in Madrid, Spain.
ESTRATO is a system*This project was funded by Union Electrica Fenosa,Madrid, Spain.for translating Spanish to English in a restricted o-main with controlled input.
ESTRATO consists of sev-eral modules from the KANT MT system \[Mitamuraet al, 1991\] as well as morphological nalysis andphrasal recognition modules and the TWS authoringenvironment\[Nirenburg et ai., 1992\].As shown in figure 1, every ESTRATO run-timemodule uses a different lexical or semantic knowledgesource, which differs in content as well as format.The knowledge contained in these modules overlaps.We needed to coordinate and maintain these know-ledge sources in a robust and efficient way.
Further-more, the lexical information eeded by the trans-lator is initially acquired by people ("editors") whoare neither linguists nor domain experts.
This lex-ical information is kept in lexical feature files.
1 Weneeded away to convert hese lexical feature files intoforms which could be used by the run-time modulesof ESTRATO.Our solution is to maintain a centralized lexicaland semantic frame database, and to use COOL tohelp us acquire this database by converting the ini~tial feature files created by the human editors.
Thelexical and semantic knowledge sources needed bythe run-time translator are then automatically gener-ated and maintained by COOL.
Two subsystems per-form these tasks: ACQUISITION-COOL (A-COOL) andMAINTENANCE-COOL (M-COOL).
A-COOL producesthe central lexical and template semantic databasesfrom the initial lexical feature files, which the linguistand domain expert can then modify.
M-COOL goesbeyond simple acquisition of lexical information.
Itautomatically generates efficient run-time versions ofthe lexical and semantic knowledge from the centralrepository of lexical and semantic databases initiallyIWe do not describe the lexical acquisition programfor acquiring the initial lexical feature files.149~ J PARSER "~ ...................... INTERPR~" iER: !:::::::::.'.'+:.
?~'- .:..:::!:,~:~::i:i~:!:!
:i~-"-I GENERATORFigure 1: Knowledge-based translator and run-time knowledge.
Thick ovals represent knowledge generated by COOL.created by A-COOL and maintained by experts.
Therelationship between A-COOL, M-COOL and the threedifferent types of information is depicted in figure 2.COOL maintains consistency in the knowledgesources and makes it easy to add lexical databasesfor new modules.
By keeping a single source for alllexical information for a given language, COOL allowsus to robustly maintain knowledge and eliminate re-dundancy, by using the power of a frame-based rulelanguage.First we describe the acquisition and maintenanceproblems in more detail, and then describe the A-COOL and M-COOL tools which we developed to solvethese problems.
We also look at related efforts, andmention some ideas for future work.2 The Knowledge Acquisition andMaintenance ProblemsAt the Center for Machine Translation, we use Lex-ical Functional Grammar (LFG) \[Kaplan Bresnan,1982\] as a basis for our syntactic grammars as wellas our linking rules \[Levin, 1987\] for mapping syn-tactic functions to and from semantic roles.
The lat-ter we refer to as "mapping rules".
These mappingrules are used in conjunction with a domain modelto build or generate from the interlingua text rep-resentations (ILT).
The use of ILT is characteristicof the CMT approach to Knowledge-Based MachineTranslation \[Goodman, 1991; Mitamura e~ al., 1991;Frederking et al, 1992\].Given the emphasis placed on the lexicon in LFGin both syntax and semantics and the extensive do-main knowledge required for our translation system,we place a great deal of importance on the lexiconand finding easy methods to acquire, maintain, view,store and reuse the lexical information.
COOL is atool we are developing and using on the ESTRATOproject for accomplishing these tasks.The knowledge acquisition and maintenance taskscan be rather cumbersome.
Acquiring 1000's of newsemantic oncepts and placing them into the top-level semantic hierarchy by hand is tedious and error-prone.
This also applies to adding English and Span-ish words.
Once the run-time knowledge sources forthe various NLP modules have been acquired, main-taining consistency among the lexical and semanticfiles (phrasal-noun list, glossary, morpho-syntacticlexicons, word-to-concept mappings and the seman-tic concepts) is difficult.
The NLP modules requiredifferent lexical and semantic knowledge with vary-ing formats.
All modules hare some informationwhich must be kept consistent, such as the partof speech and the word-sense.
The concept namemust be the same for the run-time semantic know-ledge source, the Spanish run-time lexical knowledgesource, and the English run-time lexical knowledgesource.
Both acquiring the knowledge and maintain-ing consistency in the knowledge are prone to humanerror.One of the requirements of ESTRATO is that a non-linguist lexicographer be able to acquire and main-tain lexical information as much as possible.
A-COOLallows the semi-automatic creation of NLP lexicalknowledge from lexicographic nformation suppliedby a non-linguist.At present, linguists must do some of the lexi-cal acquistion work such as providing semantic lassinformation and some specialized syntactic infor-mation for closed-class items, adjectives and verbs.When there is not always a one-to-one l xical map-ping from a Spanish and English word to the sameconcept \[Talmy, 1972; Talmy, 1985\], the lexical en-tries can only be produced semi-automatically.
Lin-guists must also provide collocational information i150SkeletalA-COOL en~esM-COOLFigure 2: Relationship between A-COOL, M-COOL and lexical and semantic information.the lexicon relevant to lexical selection\[Mel'~uk et al,1984\].3 Automated Knowledge AcquisitionA-COOL automates the acquisition of lexical and se-mantic knowledge in ESTR.ATO.
For each entry ina Spanish lexical feature file, A-COOL creates: anew semantic oncept frame for the central seman-tic database, a Spanish lexical frame for the Spanishcentral exical database and a skeletal entry for theEnglish lexical feature file.
Once the entry from theEnglish lexical feature file has been filled out by theeditor, A-COOL will also create a lexical frame forthe English central lexical database.
The word-to-concept mappings for the Spanish and English wordsare automatically created by A-COOL in order to en-sure consistency.
A-COOL accomplishes all of this bymeans of easily modified if-then rules.When A-COOL creates a new concept, it automat-ically makes a link to a more general semantic lass.The top-level hierarchy we are currently using wascreated at Carnegie Mellon University \[Carlson andNirenburg, 1990\].
The insertion of semantic onceptsinto a hierarchy is not dependent on the specific top-level.
The rules specify the linking of the new con-cepts in the semantic hierarchy based on features(such as ACTION for verbs and ANIMACY for nouns) inthe lexical feature files.
These rules can be modifiedeasily for adding concepts to a different op-level.What follows is a description of the A-COOL pro-cess using the entry for the Spanish verb "funcionar"("to work").
The verb feature ACTION in the lexicalacquisition phase is designed such that the user is(" FUSCIONAR"(cat v) (trans intrans)(action physical)(eng "function")(stem-change no) (comp-type O).??
)("WORK"(cat v) (action physical)(span "funcionar")(comp-type 0) (trans intrans).
.
.
)Figure 3: Sample input verbs to A-COOLprompted for a response to a question about the typeof action the verb represents (if any at all).
Withthis information, A-COOL can produce the prelimi-nary value of IS-A for a semantic frame when it cre-ates the semantic frame from the verb entry.The "if" or "LHS" (left-hand-side) part of theA-COOL rules specifies properties of lexical featureswhich must be true for the rule to apply.
If the ruledoes apply, the "then" or "RHS" (right-hand-side)specifies which slots of the central database frame tocreate.For example, figure 3 shows entries for the Spanishverb "funcionar" and its corresponding English verb"work" from the lexical feature files.In order to convert these entries into centraldatabase frames, the following rules apply, rulelinserts the default information that the value of theCLASS feature for "funcionar" is AGENT, because the151(SPANISH-RULE rulelLHS (trans intrans)(ref lexive tmknown)RHS(c lass  agent)(is-a +w-spanish-intrans-verb)(trans intrans))Figure 4: A-COOL rule to convert Spanish words(ENGLI SH-RD~E rule2LHS (trans Imknown)(cat v)l~S(class agent-theme)(traits trans) )Figure 5: A-COOL rule to convert English wordsreflexive value is unknown (see figure 4).
It also in-serts the word into the lexical hierarchy under +W-SPANISH-INTRANS-VEItB and copies the TITANS infor-mation to the new frame.Similarly, ru le2 (see figure 5) helps to convert"work" by guessing at the value of the TITANS slotand setting the CLASS to AGENT-THEME.Finally, ru le3 (see figure 6) helps to generate thetemplate semantic frame corresponding to the mean-ing of "funcionar" and "work" by placing the frameunder PHYSICAL-EVENT in the semantic IS-A hierar-chy.A-COOL works by using the following algorithm:1.
Read in the (Spanish or English) lexical featurefile.2.
For each lexical item, generate a frame by ap-plying all relevant rules to that lexical item.3.
Write that frame to the central frame file.With "funcionar" and "work" as the input lexicalitems, the rules generate the central frames hown infigure 7.4 Automated KnowledgeMaintenance4.1 In t roduct ionM-COOL allows the linguist to keep just one sourcefor Spanish lexical information and one source forEnglish lexical information (the central exical frame(SEMANTIC-RULE rule3LHS (act ion phys ica l )RHS ( is-a physical-event))Figure 6: A-COOL rule to place a semantic frame in theIS-A hierarchy(MAKE-FRAME +W-SP-FUNCIONAR-V-2(COMP-TYPE no)(CAT v)(STEM-CHANGE no)(TRANS intrans)(IS-A +u-spanish-intrans-verb)(CLASS agent)(HEAD *work-funcionar)(ROOT "funcionar"))(MAKE-FRA~ +W-EN-WORK-V-1(ROOT "work")(HEAD *work-funcionar)(COMP-TYPE no)(CLASS agent)(IS-A +w-english-verb)(TRANS intrans)(CAT V))(MAKE-FRAME *WORK-FUNCIONAR(IS-A device-event)(GOAL *none*)(LOCATION building place ...)(INSIDE-OF *cabinet-armario ...))Figure 7: Lexical and Semantic frame entries generatedby A-COOL and used as input to M-COOL.databases).
Thus, the lexical information is notspread out over several files and can be modified eas-ily.
Each language's lexicon can also be organizedhierarchically.Using a set of if-then rules, M-COOL automaticallyproduces the necessary run-time lexical and seman-tic knowledge sources for the various NLP modules.These rules specify which features are needed for thedifferent modules.
The rules also create some lexicalknowledge that can be extracted from the lexical andsemantic hierarchies.
This information eed not bespecified in the lexical entries.2Since the various run-time lexical and semanticknowledge sources now come from common centraldatabases, consistency is maintained and human er-ror is minimized.
Both the semantic knowledge andthe lexical knowledge are stored in a standard frame-based format.
This allows the linguist and domain-expert o view or modify the knowledge with a frame-based editor.The rest of this section describes the M-COOL pro-gram, the lexical and semantic frames used by M-COOL, and then gives an annoted example to illus-trate how M-COOL works.4.2 P rogram Descr ipt ionIn order to make the knowledge maintenance cyclefazter, M-COOL can also work incrementally as wellas in batch mode.
If the linguist only modifies or~E.g., the linking of syntactic arguments o semanticroles.152adds a small number of lexical or semantic items,the incremental version of M-COOL will only updatethe run-time knowledge sources which are affectedby the changes, instead of re-generating all of therun-time knowledge sources.
This saves considerabletime over the non-incremental method.M-COOL works by first determining which run-timeknowledge sources need to be updated.
For each suchknowledge source, it then applies all rules which arerelevant o that knowledge source.
Each rule is as-sociated with a specific knowledge source.To extend M-COOL to generate the run-time know-ledge source for a new NLP module, two steps aretaken:1.
Define the properties of the new knowledgesource in the file-type table.2.
Write a new set of rules for generating the en-tries which comprise the new knowledge source.These rules specify the lexical features to beused for the entry as well as the format of theentry.The file-type table simply tells M-COOL whetherthe given knowledge source is lexical or semantic,and whether it is for generation or analysis.
Italso supplies miscellaneous information such as thename of the file where the run-time entries are keptand whether it can be compiled using the LISPcompile command.
For example, our Spanish-lexical-analysis file-type is defined with this entry:DATABASE Spanish-lexical-analys is"Spanish/Mappings/lex-map.
lisp":lexical :analysisThe rule language used by M-COOL is calledFRULEKIT \[Shell and Carbonell, 1986\].
FRULEKIT isan efficient CommonLisp attern matcher with sev-eral extensions over oPs-5.
The most relevant exten-sion is that it allows rules to flexibly match againstand modify frames in a hierarchy.
Having such aframe-based rule language makes it easy for us towrite rules to update the ESTRATO runtime know-ledge sources.4.3 Lexical and  Semant ic  k'YameDescr ipt ionLet us briefly discuss the lexical and semanticdatabase files which are the input to M-COOL.
Thelexical frames are the repository of all lexical know-ledge for the ESTRATO system.
These frames containstructural, grammatical nd some semantic encod-ing information for words or phrases.
They can beeasily extended to include other lexical information(e.g., definitions or synonyms) for display to a hu-man translator.
For the purposes of ESTRATO, eachlexical entry contains a part of speech (CAT), a lex-ical mapping rule (HEAD or SEM-MAP), a root form(ROOT) and a link (IS-A) to its location in the lex-ical hierarchy.
Nouns (CAT N) contain agreement(MAKE-FRAME+W-EN-GO-OFF-V-I(ROOT "go")(HEAD *work-ftmcionar)(PATTERN (agent(is-a *alarm-alarma)))(SEM-DOMAIN "mech/tech")(COMP-TYPE no)(CLASS agent)(IS-A +w-english-verb)(TRANS intrans)(IRREGULARS (past "went")(pastpart "gone"))(PARTICLE off)(CAT V))Figure 8: Alternative English lexical entry for *WORK-FUNCIONAR(GENDER and NUMBER) count/mass (COUNT) anda trinary distinction of ANIMACY (human, animal,non-living).
Morphological information for Span-ish is represented in the feature STEM-CHANGE andfor both Spanish and English in the features ALLO-FLAG and IRREGULARS.
Verbs and adjectives containfeatures for subcategorization (TRANS, COMP-TYPE)and features for syntactic-semantic argument link-ing (CLASS, MAPPINGS).
CLASS here refers to thetype of linking rules a verb or adjective \[Levin andRappaport, 1987\] will use for its syntactic arguments(SUBJ, OBJ, OBJ2, XCOMP, and COMP \[Kaplan Bres-nan, 1982l).
Semantic knowledge about the worldis stored in a domain model organized in an is-ahierarchy using frames that correspond to the var-ious events (PHYSICAL-EVENT *ASSEMBLE-MONTAR)and objects (PHYSICAL-OBJECT *TRANSFORMER-TRANSFORMADOR), relations (AGENT, THEME) 3 be-tween these objects and events and properties(COLOR, SHAPE) in the specific domain\[Carlson a dNirenburg, 1990\].
The name of each lexical framerepresents a single word sense \[Meyer et al, 1992\].Examples of lexical frames are shown in figure 7.Each frame specifies a link to a parent in the lexi-cal hierarchy or the domain model hierarchy (IS-A).This allows lexical entries to be arranged into classeswhich require similar "mapping rules" \[Mitamura,1989\].Each semantic knowledge database frame in thedomain model also specifies the roles which a givenconcept may have as well as specific restrictions onthe fillers of those roles.
An example of a semanticframe was shown in figure 7.
The information in thedatabases i  used in different forms and combinationsdepending on the NLP component's needs.Figure 8 shows a frame which is an alterna-tive English lexical entry for the concept *WORK-FUNCIONAR.3We make no theoretical claims about the defini-tion of the roles agent and theme \[Guerssel t el., 1985;Jackendoff, 1983\].153(MRULE lex-analysis-Spanish-verb:LHS(=!+w-sp-Spanish-verb:head =head:root =root:class =class:sem-map =sem)(current-file:value Spanish-lexical-analysis):RHS(cool-output'(:root (gen-frame-name =verb):cat  V:head  =head:class =class:sem =sem)))Figure 9: M-COOL rule \]or generating run-time lexicalmapping data.
(:ROOT "+W-SP-FUNCIONAR-V-2":CAT V:HEAD *WORK-FUNCIONAR:CLASS AGENT)Figure 10: Lexical-map entry generated by M-COOL.The value of the PATTERN slot in this frame(AGENT (IS-A *ALARM-ALAR.MA)) is used so thatwhen the AGENT role is filled with an "alarm",the English word selected for generation is "go off"rather than "work".4.4 ExampleNow we will illustrate how M-COOL rules auto-matically generate various types of run-time know-ledge from the frames shown in figure 7.
Figure 9shows a rule for generating lexical mapping informa-tion.
This rule applies to the lexical frame Tw-sP-FUNCIONAR-V-2 in order to generate the run-timelexical analysis mapping data depicted in figure 10.Next we have a rule for generating the run-timeOntology database, which we call "framettes" (fig-ure 11).
This rule applies to the semantic frame*WORK-FUNCIONAR (shown in figure 7) to generatethe framette as shown in figure 12.The two previous rules were fairly simple, but M-COOL can perform much more complex computa-tions.
For example, in order to generate fficient run-time knowledge which allows the translator to mapfrom interlingua into English feature-structures, M-COOL must find, for each semantic frame, every En-glish lexical frame which corresponds to it.
It thencombines this correspondence information into a sin-gle LISP function which will efficiently perform themapping at run-time.
One of the M-COOL rules re-sponsible for constructing this knowledge is shownin figure 13.
In this example, it applies to the se-mantic frame *WORK-FUNCIONAR..
It finds two lex-(MRULE events -onto- ru le:LHS(=!event (LABEL =event))( cur rent - f i l e  :value event- f ramettes):RHS(cool-output' ( , (cool- frame-name =event)( i s -a  (c lass -o f  =event)), (gen- f ramette -s lo ts  =event) ) ) )Figure 11: M-COOL rule \]or generating run.time event\]ramette data.
(*WORK-FUNCIONAR(IS-A DEVICE-EVENT)(INSIDE-OF *CABINET-AI~IO ...)(LOCATION BUILDING PLACE ...)(GOAL *NONE*))Figure 12: Event.framette g nerated by M-COOL.ical frames which correspond to each other: +W-SP-FUNCIONAR-V-2 AND q-W-EN-WORK-V-1 (see fig-ure 7).
The LISP function generated by this rule isshown in figure 14.5 Re la ted  WorkMost of the effort in developing software tools forNLP has focused on user interfaces and acquisitionof lexical databases from text corpora, but there arevery few rule-based systems for knowledge mainte-nance.
\[Pin-Ngern et al, 1989\] go beyond corpusanalysis by augmenting the lexicM databases withknowledge supplied by human editors.
The WordManager \[Domenig, 1988\] is a system for both acqui-sition and maintenance of morphological knowledge,but its main strength is its user-interface.
LUKE\[Knight, 1991\] is an interactive system which usesseveral heuristics exploiting the relationship betweenlinguistic and world knowledge to partially automatethe acquisition process.More effort has gone into the acquisition and main-tenance of knowledge for expert-systems.
4 The fo-cus of such efforts is to acquire smaller amounts ofproblem-solving knowledge, which is more complexthan the semantic and lexicM knowledge used in ES-TRATO.6 Future  WorkWe intend to extend COOL in three directions: bysupporting the acquisition and maintenance of lexi-cal and semantic information for new languages, byadding rules for completely automating the acquis-tion of semantic lasses and lexical argument alter-nations \[Bresnan, 1982; Perlmutter, 1983\], and by4For example, \[Michalski, 1989\] contains everal arti-cles on these efforts.154(MRULE gen-lex-code-English-verb:LHS(need-lex-info (LABEL =need-info):lex-entry =word(CHECK (isa-p (pa-class-of =word)'+w-EN-English-verb)))(have-lex-info (LABEL =have-info)):RHSo , o(push (list passive-complete-patternpass-syn-entrymap-code-pass)(have-lex-info-glex-entries=have-info))(push (list complete-patternsyn-entry map-code)(have-lex-info-glex-entries=have-info)))Figure 13: M-COOL rule for generating a run-time En-glish generation mapping function.
(DEFUN ENG-LUTHOR-*WORK-FUNCIONAR (ILT)(COND((IS-A-P-SLOT 'AGENT '*ALARM-ALARMA)(LIST '(SYN ((CAT V) (PARTICLE OFF)... (TRANS INTRANS)(IRREGULARS((PAST "went")(PASTPART "gone")))(ROOT GO)))*ENGLISH-AGENT-VERB-MAPPINGS*))(T (LIST' (SYN ((CAT V) .
.
.
(TRANS INTRANS)(ROOT WORK)))*ENGLISH-AGENT-VERB-MAPPINGS,))))Figure 14: Part of an english lexical mapping functiongenerated by M-COOL.improving the functionality of the underlying systemitself.
Because it is easy to extend M-COOL to gen-erate run-time knowledge sources for new modules,we plan to add, for example: English-analysis lexicaltables, Spanish-generation lexical tables, and lexicaltables for an external machine-translation system.We also have plans for integrating the variousacquisition and maintenance tools we use in theESTRATO system (which include A-COOL and M-COOL) into a single incremental lexical acquisitionand maintenance program with a user-friendly in-terface for both experts and non-experts.
The in-terface will prompt the non-expert for informationabout a word without the user needing to know lin-guistics.
For example, determining the countabliltyof a noun can be done by prompting the user withexamples of the word being used in a countable con-text and non-countable context.
This will allownon-experts to add most of the lexical and seman-tic knowledge.
Currently the process of adding ormodifying database ntries and running A-COOL andM-COOL requires the user to understand both the in-ternM representation of the lexical items and howto run the various programs.
An interactive know-ledge editor which hides all of the details from theuser will make the user's work much more productiveand simple.7 Conc lus ionsOur idea of developing a program to help automatethe task of lexical and semantic knowledge acquisi-tion and maintenance has been very fruitful for us.We have realized the following benefits:?
A-COOL and M-COOL make knowledge acquisi-tion and maintenance asier, faster and morerobust.
By automatically generating templatelexical and semantic database ntries from thelexical feature files, A-COOL accelerates the ac-quisition process and eliminates many sources ofhuman error.
Similarly, M-COOL eliminates theneed to manually update a large number of run-time knowledge sources each time a new lexicalentry is added.
By using a powerful and efficientframe-matching rule-based system to automat-ically generate the correct run-time knowledgesources, knowledge-maintenance is faster.?
M-COOL allows us to integrate generation andanalysis lexical knowledge.
Because M-COOLcan generate both analysis and generation lex-ical knowledge sources from the same centraldatabase, this makes it very easy to create Span-ish generation and English analysis knowledgesources.
This solves the problem of having tomaintain separate versions of knowledge for theanalysis and generation of the same language.?
It is easy to extend M-COOL to new modules.Although we didn't anticipate it, we were ableto use M-COOL to generate and maintain a wide155variety of additional knowledge sources (for ex-ample, a custom glossary and a phrasal-lexiconfile).
M-COOL'S design makes this easy.Given the complexity and size of our machine-translation system, COOL has become an indispensi-ble part of our knowledge acquisition environment.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank the members of the ESTR.ATOproject for their help and support: Mildred Galarza,Jose Garcia, Jose Goyeneche, Michael Mauldin andTeresa Rubio.
We would also like to thank Lori Levinand Barbara Moore for their comments and sugges-tions.Re ferences\[Mitamura et al, 1991\] Teruko Mitamura, Eric It.Nyberg, and Jaime G. Carbonell.
An EfficientInterlingua Translation System for Multi-lingualDocument Production.
In Proceedings of the Ma-chine Translation Summit III, Washington D.C.,1991.\[Nirenburg et al, 1992\] S. Nirenburg, P. Shell, A.Cohen, P. Cousseau, D. Grannes, C. McNeilly.Multi-purpose development and operation envi-ronments for natural-language applications.
In 3rdConference on Applied Natural Language Process-ing, Trento, Italy, 1992.\[Frederking etat., 1992\] R. Frederking, A. Cohen,D.
Grannes, P. Cousseau, S. Nirenburg.
The Pan-gloss Mark I MAT System.
In Proceedings of theEuropean Association for Computational Linguis-tics Conference, Utrecht, The Netherlands, 1993.\[Carlson and Nirenburg, 1990\] Lynn Carlson andSergei Nirenburg, World Modeling for NLP.
Cen-ter for Machine Translation Technical Report 121,Pittsburgh, PA, 1990.\[Bateman etal., 1990\] John A. Bateman, Robert T.Kasper, Johanna D. Moore and Richard Whitney,A General Organization of Knowledge for NaturalLanguage Processing: the Penman Upper Model.March 1990\[Meyer et al, 1992\] Ingrtid Meyer, BoyanOnyshkevych, and Lynn Carlson.
LexicographicPrinciples and Design for Knowledge-Based Ma-chine Translation.
Center for Machine TranslationTechnical Report 118, Pittsburgh, PA, 1990.\[Pin-Ngern et al, 1989\]Pin-Ngern, Strutz and Evens.
Lexical Acquisitionfor Lexical Databases.
In Proceedings of Comput-ing in the 90's Conference, Kalamazoo, MI, USA,1989.\[Domenig, 1988\] M. Domenig.
Word Manager: aSystem for the Definition, Access and Mainte-nance of Lexical Databases.
In Proceedings ofCOLING Budapest Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, Budapest, 1988.\[Knight, 1991\] Kevin Knight.
Integrating knowledgeacquisition and language acquisition.
PhD Thesis,Carnegie Mellon University School of ComputerScience, Pittsburgh, PA, 1991.\[Mitamura, 1989\] Teruko Mitamura.
The Hierar-chical Organization of Predicate Frames for In-terpretive Mapping in Natural Language Process-ing.
PhD Thesis, University of Pittsburgh, De-partment of Linguistics, Pittsburgh, PA, 1989.\[Levin, 1987\] Lori S. Levin.
Toward a Linking The-ory of Relation Changing Rules in LFG.
CSLIReport No.
CSLI-87-115, Center for the Study ofLanguage and Information, Stanford, CA, 1987.\[Guerssel t al., 1985\] Mohamed Guerssel, KennethHale, Mary Laughren, Beth Levin, and JosieWhite Eagle, A Cross-Linguistic Study of Tran-sitivity Alternations.
Presented at the parasessionon Causatives and Agentivity at the 21st RegionalMeeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society, April1985.\[Levin and Rappaport, 1987\] Beth Levin and MalkaRappaport, The Formation of Adjectival Passives.em Linguistic Inquiry Vol.17, No.
4,623-661, MITPress, Cambridge, MA, 1986.\[Michalski, 1989\] R. S. Miehalski, J. G. Carbonelland T. M. Mitchell, editors.
Machine Learning,An Artificial Intelligence Approach, Vol.
4.
TiogaPress, Palo Alto, CA, 1989.\[Goodman, 1991\] Kenneth Goodman and SergeiNirenburg, editors.
The KBMT Project: A CaseStudy in Knowledge-Based Machine Translation,Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Marco, CA,1991.\[Jackendoff, 1983\] Ray Jackendoff.
Semantics andCognition, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 1983.\[Perlmutter, 1983\] David Perlmutter, editor.
Stud-ies in Relation Grammar I, The University ofChicago Press, Chicago, IL, 1983.\[Bresnan, 1982\] Joan Bresnan, Polyadieity, JoanBresnan, editior.
The Mental Representation ofGrammatical Relations, MIT Press, Cambirdge,MA, 149-172 1982.\[Kaplan Bresnan, 1982\] Ronald Kaplan and JoanBresnan, Lexical Functional Grammar: A FormalSystem for Grammatical Representation, JoanBresnan, editior The Mental Representation ofGrammatical Relations, MIT Press, Cambirdge,MA: 173-281, 1982.\[Talmy, 1985\] Leonard Talmy, Lexicalization Pat-terns: Semantic Structure in Lexical Forms, Timo-thy Shopen, editior.
Language Typology and Syn-tactic Description, Vol.
3 Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambirdge, MA, 1985.156\[Talmy, 1972\] Leonard Talmy.
Semantic Structuresin English and Atsugewi.
PhD Thesis, Universityof California, Berkely, CA, 1972.\[Light, 1992\] Marc Light.
A Computational Theoryof Lexical Relatedness.
University of Rochester,Computer Science Department, Technical Report421, Rochester, New York, 1992.\[Mel'~uk et al, 1984\] Igor MelYuk, Na-dia Arbatchewsky-Jumarie, L o Elnitsky, LidijaIordanskaja, and Addle Lessard .
Diclionnaireexplicalif el combinaloire du franfais contempo-rain: recherches lezico-sementiques L Presses del'Univeritd e Montreal, Montreal, Canada, 1984.\[Shell and Carbonell, 1986\] Peter Shell and JaimeCarbonell.
Frulekit: A Frame-Based ProductionSystem.
Center for Machine Translation Techni-cal Report, Pittsburgh, PA, 1986.157
