On the  not ion  o f  un iqueness  *Joke DorrepaalOnderzoeksinstituut voor Taal en Spraak3512 JK Utrecht, The NetherlandsEmail: Joke.Dorrepaal@let.ruu.nlAbstractIn the paper it is argued that for some lin-guistic phenomena, current discourse repre-sentation structures are insufficiently fine-grained, both from the perspective of serv-ing as representation in NLP and from atruth conditional perspective.
One suchsemantic phenomenon is uniqueness.
Itis demonstrated that certain elements areforced to have a unique interpretation, froma certain point in discourse onwards.
Thiscould be viewed as the semantic ounter-part of surface order.
Although it has al-ways been acknowledged that the left-to-right order of constituents influences themeaning of an utterance, it is, for exam-ple, not reflected in standard DiscourseRepresentation Theory (\[Kamp, 1981\]).
Inthe paper, an alternative r presentation forunique constituents will be proposed, re-sulting in asymmetry of certain conjoinedconditions in a DRS-representation.Introduct ionLogic-based iscourse theories are in many respectsnot sufficiently fine-grained.
This becomes particu-larly obvious when we consider adopting such a rep-resentation as an interface in an NLP system.Suppose we have a discourse as in (1), and assignit a DRT-like representation as in (2):*The research reported here was supported by LREproject 061-62: Towards a Declarative Theory of Dis.course (sponsored by the European Community), and byEurotra (sponsored by the EC and the NBBI).
(1) John owns two talking parrots.Anne feeds them.
(2) 3z y,z \[ John=x & Anne=y ~ parrot(Z) &Zl=2 & owns(x,Z) & talk(Z) & feed(y,Z) \]When we take take this representation as a start-ing point for generation, we end up with at least thefollowing discourses:(3) abJohn owns two talking parrots.Anne feeds them.Anne feeds two parrots, which talk.John owns them.There are two parrots.
They talk.John owns them and Anne feeds them.John owns two parrots, which talk.Anne feeds them.John owns two parrots that talk.Anne feeds them.The multiplicity of solutions in generation fromsemantic representations has often led to the conclu-sion that a purely logical representation is too weakto guide a generation process.
This problem is of-ten 'solved' by incorporating syntactic knowledge inthe semantic representation, or having the genera-tion process be guided by more than one source ofknowledge.
In many NLP-systems, for example, thesemantic representation reflects the syntactic on-stituent structure of the string.
One could also thinkof processing by correspondence (as proposed by \[Ka-plan et al, 1989\]), using different sources of infor-mation to guide the task.
Below, it will be arguedthat these semantic representations are indeed tooweak, but not only from the point of view of Nat-ural Language Processing.
Some linguistic phenom-ena are not analysed adequately from a truth condi-tionM perspective either.106The phenomenon described in this paper, and ex-emplified in (3), touches on the notion of restrictivemodification versus non-restrictive modification.
Iwill demonstrate in what way the analysis of thesecases in DRT-semantics i not adequate.
It fails toassign different representations to discourses that dodiffer in truth conditions.
The paper will propose analternative representation a d interpretation for thisphenomenon.
The main effect of the proposal is thatthe notion of constituent unit is reinstated.
This no-tion is motivated semantically, i.e.
on the basis oftruth conditions.
The reinstatement of units in thesemantic representation is a first impulse to seman-tic representations that are strong enough to guideNLP-processes.The paper is organized as follows.
In section 1,the problem of uniqueness will be introduced.
Thereare linguistic means to force uniqueness on the inter-pretation of a constituent.
The prototypical exam-ple used throughout this paper is the non-restrictiverelative clause.
Second, uniqueness comes into playonce we have completed a discourse.
Neither dis-guise of the uniqueness phenomenon is recognizedin DRT.
In section 2, two proposals will be intro-duced which try to remedy these omissions.
Section3 will deal with the distinction between means toforce uniqueness, means to force non-uniqueness andneutral cases.
In section 4, the analysis is presentedand finally, in 5, I will come back to the importanceof the analysis in view of arriving at a more fine-grained semantic interpretation.1 Restrict ive and Non-Restr lct iveModification in DRTIn Discourse Representation Theories (\[Kamp, 1981;Kamp and Reyle, 1990; Helm, 1982\]) no distinction ismade between restrictive and non-restrictive modifi-cation.
This assumption was challenged in e.g.
\[Sells,1985\] who argues for a distinction in meaning be-tween the following minimal pairs:(4) a Anne owns two parrots, which talk to her)b Anne owns two parrots that talk to her.
(5) a The talking parrots are happy.b The talking parrots are happy.The examples in a) concern non-restrictive modi-fication.
Example (4)a makes a claim about all theparrots that Anne owns: there are two and they talkto her.
She owns no others, talking or non-talking.In (4)b on the other hand, no such uniqueness claimis made.
She may own other parrots, especially non-talking ones.1Note that 'which' can also be used in the restric-tive sense but in this paper, it is reserved for the non-restrictive reading, to avoid confusion.If we consider continuations of these sentences asin (6) and (7), or a linguistic context as in (8), thedistinctions how more clearly:(6) ab(7) ab(8)abAnne owns two parrots, which talk to her.?
The others ..Anne owns two parrots that talk to her.The others never say a word.The talking parrots are happy.?
The others ..The ~aiking parrots are happy.The others look depressed.Anne owns a lot of parrots.?
She has two parrots, which talkShe has two parrots that talk.The NPs in the a)-examples should be interpretedas 'the one and only set X such that all members xE X --~ Pred(X)', rather than 'there is a set X etc'.This phenomenon has received much attention in theliterature, and is known as uniqueness (\[Heim, 1982;Kadmon, 1987\]), maximality (\[Sells, 1985\]) or the E-type effect (\[Evans, 1980\]).In DRT, non-restrictive pronouns, restrictive pro-nouns and ordinary pronominals are all representedthe same.
The representation for all the variants in(9) is (10):(9) abAnne owns two parrots, which talk.Anne owns two parrots that talk.Anne owns two parrots.
They talk.
(10) 3~,z \[ Anne--x & parrot(Z) & \[Z\[--2& own(x,Z) & talk(Z)\]A function verifies the representation i (10) iffthere is a set of two parrots that Anne owns andthat talk.
If Anne in fact owns 5 parrots, and 3 ofthem talk, all sentences in (9) are equally true inDRT.There are two interpretation aspects related tothese examples that DRT does not acknowledge:First, if we utter sentences like (9) and that's allwe say about those parrots, then most people actu-ally think that Anne owns two talking parrots, notseven or hundred.
We take this set of two talkingparrots owned by Anne to be unique.
Second, in anexample like (9)a, the uniqueness-effect is broughtabout even before 'closing the discourse'.
The non-restrictive relative clause has the effect of uniquelydetermining two parrots that Anne owns.
And all ofthese parrots talk.2 Other  P roposa lsIn the following, two proposals will be discussed thataim at (partially) solving the uniqueness problem.
In\[Sells, 1985\] non-restrictive and restrictive pronouns107get different interpretations.
\[Zeevat, o appear\] re-lines DRT-interpretation i another way: certainparts of the discourse representation are 'closed', theeffect of which is that the reference markers in thatpart of the discourse get a unique interpretation.2.1 Max imal i tyIn \[Sells, 1985\], it is argued that a distinction eedsto be made between restrictive and non-restrictivemodification.
Sells proposes an alternative interpre-tation for non-restrictive r lative pronouns, in whichthe pronoun is evaluated with respect o every waythe antecedent was satified.
(11) a John owns some sheep, which graze(11) b Bz,v,z \[ John=x & sheep(Y) &5 owns(x,Y)& \[ Z --* Y \] & graze(Z) \]i l l )  c In a DRS K', an extension of a DRS K,the non-restrictive interpretationof \[ Z ---* Y \] is:The function g verifies K' iffVf verifying K,Vale e f(Y) ~ a ?
g(Z)\]So, for each and every sheep that John owns, itmust hold that the sheep grazes.
This contrasts toa restrictive interpretation, in which case the pro-noun is evaluated with respect o the one particularembedding function currently specified for the an-tecedent.
(12) a(12) b(12) cJohn owns some sheep that graze3x,r,z \[ John=x 8* sheep(Y) & owus(x,Y)\[Z --, Y\] graze(Z) \]In a DRS K,the restrictive interpretationo f \ [Z  ---* Y \] is:The function f verifies K iffVa \[a E f(Y) iff a e f(Z)\]The restrictive interpretation requires that therebe a set of sheep for which it holds that every sheepin the set grazes and is owned by John.
There isno maximality (or uniqueness) effect with restrictivemodification.This approach predicts that one cannot utter (13)when John owns ten sheep, of which only 5 graze:(13) John owns 5 sheep, which grazeThere are ways in which the antecedent is verifiedbut the anaphoric extension is not.
However, notethat, according to this proposal, (13) is a correct ut-terance in case John owns 10 sheep, and all of themgraze.
This prediction will be discussed more exten-sively in section 2.3.2.2 Exhaust ivenessIn \[Zeevat, o appear\] the notion of exhaustiveness(cf.
\[Groenendijk en Stokhof, 1984\]) is used, to ac-count for the maximality effect.
Zeevat expresses ex-haustification as a condition on truthful embeddings.
(14) A function f embeds a DI~ A exhaustivelyiff:embeds A and Vh =din(A) f :h embeds A =~ Vx E din(A) h(x) C f(x) \]The function f will assign sets of the domain of in-dividuals to the discourse markers.
These sets mustbe such that there are no other sets - to be assignedby any other function h - that have the same prop-erties but are not contained in the sets assigned byf.Take the following examples:(15) a Bill owns sheep.
John shears them.b There is a doctor in London.
He is Polish.The exhaustive verifying function necessarily picksthe maximal set of sheep Bill Owns (else there wouldbe other another set chosen by some function h thatwould contain the current set).
All of these sheep aresheared by John.
Similarly, 'a doctor' in b) necessar-ily refers to a unique individual who is a doctor inLondon.
That explains the weirdness of (15)b sincewe expect London to have more than one doctor.2.3 DiscussionIn this subsection I would like to summarize someof the predictions made by the approaches discussedabove.One major distinction between Sells' approach andZeevat's is that Sells 'blames' the anaphor for themaximality effect whereas in Zeevat's approach, con-stituents have a unique interpretation by virtue oftheir being in focus.In Sells' theory, the antecedent is evaluated in thesame way as in the original Dl~T-analysis.
So, fora discourse as (16), this means that Anne may havemore than two hikes.
Furthermore, Sells claims thatfor all of the bikes Anne has - even if she has 15 -i t  must be true that she got them from her brother.In my opinion, this is not the interpretation of (16).Indeed, it is possible that Anne has more than twobikes - bikes we don't care about in this story - buttheses bikes were not necessarily from her brother.On the contrary, the preferred reading is that theywere not.
(16) Anne has two bikes.
She got them from herbrother.In Zeevat's approach, exhanstification f the an-tecedent is induced independently of the nature ofthe anaphor.
If an NP is (in) a focussed constituent,it is maximized.
Let us consider the example that108motivated this analysis, (15)b, repeated here.
(15) b There is a doctor in London.
He is Polish.Now suppose I am addressing a friend of mine,who is Polish and very ill. She's telling me that shedreads going to a doctor in England, everything be-ing unfamiliar to her etc.
I think in such a situation,it is completely natural to tell her the following.
(17) There is a doctor in London.
He is Polish.It seems best that you go and see him.You can talk to him in your own language.I 'm sure he'll understand you.Summarizing, the idea of exhaustification accountsfor uniqueness by demanding that the verifying em-bedding is unique.
The problem is to explain why itshould uniquely verify the DRS related to the firstsentence in (15)b - to explain the weirdness - butnot so in (16).
Sells' maximMity proposal accountedfor uniqueness claims imposed by anaphora, but hassome undesirable empirical consequences.3 An  a l te rnat ive  accountWe have discussed two proposals that made an at-tempt to clarify the uniqueness problem.
In one ap-proach, it is the anaphor that imposes a unique inter-pretation on the antecedent.
In the other, the closingoff of (partial) DRS's causes this effect.
Below it willbe claimed that these two ideas should be combined(and modified) to yield correct results.I assume that the uniqueness effect stems from twosources:?
the closed world assumption (implicit)?
linguistic means (explicit)These assumptions will be discussed in the sectionsto follow.3.1 Closed Wor ldThe closed world assumption has the effect hat, for adiscourse as a whole, the reference markers are max-imized.
Consider the following paradigm:(18) I dropped a wine glass(19) I dropped a wine glassIt was very expensive.
(20) I dropped a wine glass last night.It was very expensive.The glass was dear to me,I inherited it from my grandmother.last night.last night.If someone drops a line as (18), it creates the im-pression she dropped one and only one wine glass.If, on the other hand, (19) is uttered, it may bethat she dropped an entire tray of glasses.
But,only one of them was expensive.
Similarly, in(20), the thing that is unique is the x such thatwine_glass(x) & expensive(x) & dear_to_me(x) & in-herited_fromJny_grandmother(x).So, this sense of uniqueness is not triggered byanything in particular in the discourse.
It is a sideeffect of closing off the discourse.3.2 Expl ic it  Un iquenessAs Sells has observed correctly, there are linguisticmeans to mark uniqueness explicitly.
We presentsome examples in this subsection.Nonrest r ic t ive  modi f iers  Uniqueness, or maxi-mality, is forced by non-restrictive modification, ascan be the case in relative clauses and adjective-nounphrases.
(21) ab(22) abI caught a glimpse of two players, whowere training for the match(cf.
I caught a glimpse of two playersthat/who were training for the match)The aggressive police officers were toblame for the incident(cf.
The aggressive police officers were toblame for the incident)In both a) examples, one is forced to conclude thatthere is a unique set of people - two players, policeofficers respectively - of which all of its members wereinvolved in the action reported on.Focusing Adjuncts(23) a Only John knew how to behaveb (cf.
Even John knew how to behave)Here, in the a) example, the only x such that xknew how to behave is John.
In b), on the otherhand, it is implied that others knew how to behave,too.Structural Focusing(24) a It was John who gave a present o Maryb It was to Mary that John gave a presentc It was a present hat John gave to MaryNone of the above are logically equivalent.
As fora), John could easily have given presents to girlsother than Mary.
This in contrast with b), whichclaims that Mary was unique in receiving a presentfrom John.
And vice versa, b) is compatible withMary getting presents from other boys, whereas a) isnot.
And c) is again different, for similar reasons.4 The  Ana lys i s4.1 Uniqueness of DiscourseFor the closed world assumption, we adopt exhaus-tiveness for discourses along the line of \[Groenendijk109en Stokhof, 1984\] en \[Zeevat, o appear\].
Exhausti-lication applies to the verification of the entire dis-course, and as such, it is more natural to define thecondition on the function that embeds the discourse(as in Zeevat) than in the grammar (as in Groe-nendijk & Stokhof).
(25) The embedding function f uniquely verifiesthe DRS K in M iff:f verifies the conditions in M andVh \[Vx ?
rm(K) =?, h(x) C f(x)\]Note that uniqueness i  a property of closed offdiscourses (or discourse units).Let me explain the unique verification in view ofthe following examples:(26) a I spoke to two students yesterday.They thought he exam was too difficult.b I spoke to at least two students yesterday.They thought he exam was too difficult.If I spoke to exactly two students who thoughtthe exam was too difficult, a) en b) are both true.The verifying function maps the reference markeronto the maximal set of students, 2 in this case.Both a) and b) are also compatible with the situ-ation where I spoke to many students during thatday but only two of them thought that the examwas too difficult.
What discriminates a) from b) iswhen I spoke to 5 students who reported this com-plaint about the exam.
In a), f maps the referencemarker onto a set of two students who complainedabout the exam.
There are other sets with the sameproperties, though, sets that are not contained inthe set verifyied by f.  Discourse b) can in this sce-nario not be understood as referring to only 2, 3 or4 students.
The embedding function must map thereference marker onto the maximal set, i.e the set of5 students.4.2 Un iqueness  of  AntecedentsFor the analysis of uniqueness forced by linguisticmeans, I distinguish three cases:?
marked uniqueness?
marked non-uniqueness?
neutral casesThe a) examples of (21)-(23), and (24)a-c all ex-plicitly mark uniqueness: (21) by the non-restrictiveclause, (22) by the lack of stress on the modifier, (23)a focusing adjunct, and (24)a-c, uniqueness i forcedby the clefting construction.
Similarly, the b) exam-ples in (21)-(23) mark non-uniqueness.
In (22)b, forexample, the stressed modifier 'aggressive' indicatesthat there were non-aggressive police officers - elsewe should have uttered (22)a.Note that this list of linguistic 'tools' to mark(non)uniqueness is, of course, far from exhaustive.The point I want to make is that sometimes the con-text forces a (non)unique interpretation, but in ab-sence of such explicit indicators, the interpretationis vague about (non)uniqueness.The neutral counterparts of (21)-(23) are the fol-lowing:(21) c(22) cI caught a glimpse of two players.They were training for the match.The aggressive police officers were toblame for the incident 2(23) c John knew how to behave(24) d John gave a present o Mary4.2.1 Neut ra l  interpretat ionFor the neutral interpretation of pronouns, weadopt the standard DRT-analysis for anaphora.
TheAnaphora Condition below is logically equivalent tothe interpretation of '='  in 'x=y' for anaphora inDRT.Given a function 2", and g an extension of f :3 f  \[ Va ?
f(X) ~ a ?
g(Y) \] (Anaphora)4.2.2 Non-rest r ic t ive  interpretat ionThe non-restrictive interpretation is forced when weadd to the anaphora condition that the antecedentis verified in such a way that there is no other setthat has the same properties and is not a subset ofthe set denoted by the antecedent.3 f  \[ Va ?
f(X) ?=~ a ?
g(Y) \] (Anaphora)&Vh \[ Va ?
h(X) a ?
I(X) \] (Uniqueness)Note that we need the Uniqueness Condition inde-pendently for precision adverbs uch as 'exactly' in'exactly 2'.4.2.3 Restr ict ive interpretat ionThe non-uniqueness condition requires that besidesthe set that satisfies the antecedent for this contin-gent function, there is at least another element withthe same properties.Bf \[ Va e f(X) .'.
:.
a ?
g(Y) \] (Anaphora)&qh \[ Ba ?
h(X) ==?, a ~ f(X) \] (Non-uniqueness)2In spoken language, there would be no neutralform.
The stress pattern would always indicate (non)res-trictivity.
In writing, which is what (22)c. refers to, itusually vague, or ambiguous between the two readings.1104.3 ~r ther  P red ic t ionsFirst, note that my approach deviates from the tra-ditional view that non-restrictive pronouns and or-dinary pronouns hould be interpreted equally.So, the objection against he unique interpretationin examples like (25) does not hold for the analysispresented above.
Pronouns could indicate unique-ness but do not so necessarily.
(25) is not a coun-terexample, the pronoun can be used in this non-unique interpretation.
(25) If a man is in Athens, he is not in RomeHowever, if we consider examples where both aunique and a non-unique interpretation are possi-ble, the non-restrictive pronoun forces uniqueness,whereas the ordinary pronoun can be interpreted ei-ther way.
(26) abIf I want to marry a 16-year old, who Ihappen to love, then that's my business.If I want to marry a 16-year old and Ihappen to love him, then that's mybusiness.The differences are subtle but (26)a seems to beappropriate only when there actually exists such aboy the speaker wants to marry or, in other words,there is a unique candidate in the world.
(26)b couldeasily be uttered in a situation where there is nounique boy that fits the description.
The discussionis about the age difference between lovers and (26)bis uttered not to report on an actual (unique) situa-tion but to generalize over possible situations.The analysis also explains why proper names cannever be modified restrictively.
After all, a propername is mapped unto a unique element from thestart.
There is no way that a subset can be takenfrom that one element.ab*Yesterday I saw Rambo that I didn't likeYesterday I saw Rambo, which I didn'tlikeYesterday I saw the Rambo that I didn'tlikeSentence (27)c is correct if there indeed are moreRambo-movies than the one I didn't like.
The re-strictive clause picks a subset from the set of movies.A similar argument holds for "generic" uses ofNPs:(28) a Cats, which are ugly, are not allowedin my house.b Cats that are ugly are not allowedin my house.When uttering (28)a, I run the risk of offendingall my.
cat-loving friends.
There is no doubt that Iclaim that all cats are ugly animals.
It would bemore diplomatic to utter b), where I only talk abouta subset of cats (excluding, of course, my friends'cats ..).5 Un iqueness  and  NLPLet us return to the problem outlined in the introduc-tion.
If we disregard quantificational e ements uchas quantifiers, negation etc., a DRT-representation isjust a large set of (unordered) conditions.
(29) Rm(xl)  & Rm(x2) & Pred.
(x1) & Predb(x2)& Pred?
(xl,x2) &: x l=y l  & x2=y2 & Izl=2& Preda(yl,y2)?
These conditions constrain the assignments of setsto discourse markers, and the order in which thishappens is without significance (as long as, roughly,antecedents are introduced before anaphors).
I haveshown in this paper that this is an unwanted result.There are phenomena in language that more or lessindicate that the assignment to a discourse markerunder discussion is fixed at a certain point.
Thismeans that the constraining conditions are not justinterchangeable.
(30) ab(31) abThe University fired 5 friends of mine,who were researchers.The University fired 5 researchers,who were friends of mine.I know exactly two Spanish people.They live in my street.I know exactly two people in my street.They're Spanish.Both the non-restrictive clause and the precisionadverb indicate the properties that exhaust he setwe are talking about.
A set consisting of all and onlythe Spanish people I know (who happen to live in mystreet) is not (necessarily) the same as the set of allpeople who live in my street (and who, by the way,all happen to be Spanish).
The asymmetry of thesepredications over sets should be represented in thesemantic representation, i  order to account for thedifference in truth conditions.
(32) abI have two brothers, who would like tomeet you.3~,~,z,w \[ I=x & you=y & brothers(Z) &have(x,Z) & Z --* W &would_like_to_meet (W,y)The interpretation of the arrow is given in section4.2.2.
From that definition it follows that the arrowis not symmetric.
The conditions on the antecedentand the anaphor are therefore not interchangeable.This in turn means that we have reintroduced the no-tion of 'constituent' in our semantic representation.111The constituent is not motivated by the full stop, orany other syntactic or orthographic devices, but forsemantic reasons.6 Conc lus ionIn many logic-based iscourse theories, the notionof constituent unit has largely disappeared (disre-garding quantificational structures for the moment).These theories do, however, often respect the order inwhich constituents appear in the surface string, ac-knowledging that the left-to-right order of a string isof importance.
This is not reflected in the discourserepresentation, though.
In this paper, I have shownin what way exactly this left-to-right order influencesthe truth conditions.When a discourse proceeds, the values to be as-signed to the reference markers in the discourse aregradually constrained.
If this is the case, then itmakes no difference in which order we constrain theinterpretation: the result will be the same.
However,some linguistic markers fix the interpretation ofa dis-course marker at a certain point.
It has been shownthat in these cases, the order of constraints i to bepreserved in order to capture the right truth condi-tions.
In the proposal, unique constituents are anal-ysed in such a way that they impose an asymmet-ric relation upon the conjoined conditions of DRS-formulae.
As such, they add more structure to thediscourse representation structures.AcknowledgementsI would like to thank my colleagues at the OTS fornot getting tired of counting sheep, in particularHeleen Hoekstra, Louis des Tombe, Andr~ Schenk,Dirk Heylen en Ren~e Pohlmann.
Thanks also tothe participants of the Amsterdam discourse group,who gave feedback on an earlier version of this pre-sentation.Re ferences\[Evans, 1980\] G. Evans.
Pronouns.
Linguistic In-quiry 11, pp 337-362, 1980.\[Groenendijk en Stokhof, 1984\] J. Groenendijk enM.
Stokhof.
Studies on the Semantics of Ques-tions and the Pragmatic of Answers.
PhD Thesis,University of Amsterdam, 1984.\[Helm, 1982\] I. Heim.
The Semantics of Definite andIndefinite Noun Phrases PhD Thesis, Universityof Massachussetts, 1982.\[Kadmon, 1987\] N. Kadmon.
On unique and non-unique reference and asymmetric quantification,PhD Thesis, University of Massachussetts, 1987.\[Kamp, 1981\] H. Kamp.
A theory of truthand semantic interpretation.
In J.Groenendijk,J.Janssen and M.Stokhof (eds.
), Formal Methodsin the Study of Language, pp 277-322.
Forts Pub-lications, Dordrecht, 1981.\[Kamp and Iteyle, 1990\] H.Kamp and U. Reyle.From Discourse to Logic, draft distributed at Sum-merschool Leuven, 1990.\[Kaplan et al, 1989\] R. M. Kaplan, K'.
Netter, J.Wedekind, and A. Zaenen.
Translation by Struc-tural Correspondence.
In Proceedings of the FourthConference ,of the European Chapter of ~he Asso-ciation of Computational Linguistics, pp 272-281.Manchester, 1989.\[Sells, 1985\] P. Sells.
Restrictive and Non-restrictiveModification.
Report CSLI-85-28, Stanford, 1985.\[Zeevat, to appear\] H. Zeevat A theory of Questionsand Exhaustivity.
To appear, 1993.112
