Algorithms for Analysing the Temporal Structure ofDiscourse*tJ anet  H i t zeman,  Marc  Moens  and Claire GroverHCrtC Language Technology GroupThe University of Edinburgh2, Buccleuch PlaceEdinburgh EH8 9LW, ScotlandJ.
Hitzeman@ed.
ac.ukAbst rac tWe describe a method for analysingthe temporal structure of a discoursewhich takes into account the effectsof tense, aspect, temporal adverbialsand rhetorical structure and whichminimises unnecessary ambiguity inthe temporal structure?
It is partof a discourse grammar implementedin Carpenter's ALE formalism.
Themethod for building up the tempo-ral structure of the discourse com-bines constraints and preferences: weuse constraints to reduce the numberof possible structures, exploiting theHPSG type hierarchy and unificationfor this purpose; and we apply prefer-ences to choose between the remain-ing options using a temporal center-ing mechanism?
We end by recom-mending that an underspecified repre-sentation of the structure using thesetechniques be used to avoid generat-ing the temporal/rhetorical structureuntil higher-level information can beused to disambiguate.the temporal component were to yield a de-tailed representation f the temporal structureof the discourse, taking into account he effectof tense, aspect and temporal expressions whileat the same time minimising unnecessary am-biguity in the temporal structure.
The methodcombines a constraint-based approach with anapproach based on preferences: we exploit theHPSG type hierarchy and unification to arrive ata temporal structure using constraints placedon that structure by tense, aspect, rhetoricalstructure and temporal expressions, and we usethe temporal centering preferences describedby (Kameyama et al, 1993; Poesio, 1994) torate the possibilities for temporal structure andchoose' the best among them.The starting point for this work was Schaand Polanyi's discourse grammar (SchaPolanyi 1988; Priist et al1994).
For theimplementation we extended the HPSG gram-mar (Pollard and Sag, 1994) which GeraldPenn and Bob Carpenter first encoded inALE (Carpenter, 1993).
This paper will focuson our temporal processing algorithm, and inparticular on our analysis of narrative progres-sion, rhetorical structure, perfects and tempo-ral expressions?1 In t roduct ionIn this paper we describe a method foranalysing the temporal structure of a discourse??
L This component was implemented as part of adiscourse grammar for English.
The goals of*We would like to thank Alex Lascarides andMassimo Poesio for comments on an earlier draft.tThis work was supported in part by the Euro-pean Commission's programme on Linguistic Re-search and Engineering through project LRE-61-062, "Towards a declarative theory of discourse.
"2 Const ra in ts  on narrat ivecont inuat ionsProbably the best known algorithm for track-ing narrative progression is that developedby Kamp (1979), Hinrichs (1981), and Par-tee (1984), which formalises the observationthat an event will occur just after a precedingevent, while a state will overlap with a pre-ceding event.
This algorithm gives the correctresults in examples uch as the following:253(1) John entered the room.
Mary stood up.
(2) John entered the room.
Mary wasseated behind the desk.In (1) the event of Mary's standing is under-stood to occur just after John enters the room,while in (2) the state in which Mary is seated isunderstood to overlap with the event of John'sentering the room.However, if there is a rhetorical relationshipbetween two eventualities such as causation,elaboration or enablement, he temporal de-faults can be overridden, as in the followingexamples:(3) a. John fell.
Mary pushed him.b.
Local builders constructed the FordSt.
Bridge.
They used 3 tons ofbricks.In (3a) there is a causal relationship betweenMary's pushing John and his falling, and thesecond event is understood to precede the first.In (3b), the second sentence is an elaborationof the first, and they therefore refer to aspectsof the same event rather than to two sequentialevents.It has been suggested that only world knowl-edge allows one to detect that the default isbeing overridden here.
For example, LascaridesAsher (1991) suggest hat general knowledgepostulates (in the case of (3a): that a pushingcan cause a falling) can be invoked to generatethe backward movement reading.The problem for practical systems is twofold:we could assume that in the case of narrativethe Kamp/Hinrichs/Partee algorithm is the de-fault, but each time the default is applied wewould need to check all our available worldknowledge to see whether there isn't a worldknowledge postulate which might be overridingthis assumption.
Clearly this would make theprocessing of text a very expensive operation.An alternative is to assume that the tempo-ral ordering between events in two consecutivesentences can be any of the four possibilities(just_after, precede, same-event and overlap).But then the resulting temporal structures willbe highly ambiguous even in small discourses.And sometimes this ambiguity is unwarranted.Consider:(4) Mary stared at John.
He gave her backher slice of pizza.Here, it would appear, only one reading is pos-sible, i.e.
the one where John gave Mary herslice of pizza just after she stared or started tostare at him.
It would be undesirable for thetemporal processing mechanism to postulate anambiguity in this case.Of course, sometimes it is possible to takeadvantage of certain cue words which either in-dicate or constrain the rhetorical relation.
Forexample, in (5) the order of the events is un-derstood to be the reverse of that in (1) dueto the cue word because which signals a causalrelationship between the events:(5) John entered the room because Marystood up.As Kehler (1994) points out, if forward move-ment of time is considered a default with con-secutive event sentences, then the use of "be-cause" in (5) should cause a temporal clash--whereas it is perfectly felicitous.
Temporalexpressions uch as at noon and the previousThursday can have a similar effect: they toocan override the default emporal relations andplace constraints on tense.
In (6), for exam-ple, the default interpretation would be thatJohn's being in Detroit overlaps with his beingin Boston, but the phrase the previous Thurs-day overrides this, giving the interpretationthat John's being in Detroit precedes his be-ing in Boston:(6) John was in Boston.
The previousThursday he was in Detroit.This suggests that the temporal informationgiven by tense acts as a weaker constraint ontemporal structure than the information givenby temporal adverbials.The possibilities for rhetorical relations (e.g.,whether something is narration, or elaboration,or a causal relation) can be further constrainedby aspect.
For example, a state can elaborateanother state or an event:(7) a. Mary was tired.
She was exhausted.b.
Mary built a dog house.
It was alabour of love.But an event can only elaborate another event,as in (8):254Table 1.
Possible relations when $2 expresses a simple past event.Sl Relat ion Examplejust-after $1 Mary pushed John.
He fell.past event precede Sx John fell.
Mary pushed him.overlap $1 NOsame-event $1 I assembled the desk myself.
The drawers only took me tenminutes.just-after S1 Mary stared at John.
He gave her back her slice of pizza.past activity precede $1 NOoverlap $1 NOsame-event S~ NOpast statepast perf eventpast perf activitypast perf statejust-after $1just-after TF1precede $1precede TFIovedap S1ovedap TF1same-event $Isame-event TF1just-after Stprecede $1overlap $1same-event S1just-after S1precede S,overlap $1same-event S~just-after S1just-after TF1precede $1precede TF1oveHap $Ioverlap TF1same-event $1same-event TF1NOSam arrived at eight.
He was tired.
He rang the bell.NO?John fell.
He was in pain.
Mary pushed him.Mary was angry.
She pushed John.NONOI assembled the desk myself.
It was beautiful.
The drawers onlytook me ten minutes.Sam had arrived at the house.
He rang the bell.Sam arrived at the house.
He had lost the key.
He rang the bell.NOI had assembled the desk myself.
The drawers only took me tenminutes.Mary had stared at John.
He gave her back her sfice of pizza.NONONONOMartha discovered the broken lock.
Someone had been in thegarage.
They rearranged the, tools.NONOMartha discovered the broken lock.
Someone had been in thegarage.
They rearranged the tools,NONOMary built the desk herself.
She had been happy taking it on.The drawers only todk her ten minutes.
(8) a. Mary built a dog house.
She used twotons of bricks.b.
Mary was t ired/working hard.
?Shebuilt a dog house.For the eventive second sentence of (8b) to bean elaboration of the first sentence, it must oc-cur in a stative form-- for  example as a progres-sive (i.e., She was building a dog house).Because of considerations like these, our aimin the implementation work was to treat tense,aspect, cue words and rhetorical relations asmutual ly  constraining, with more specific infor-mat ion such as explicit cue words having higherpriority than less specific information such astense.
The main advantage of this approach isthat it reduces temporal structure ambiguitywithout having to rely on detailed world knowl-edge postulates.Table 1 lists the possible temporal  relationsbetween the eventualities described by two con-secutive sentences without temporal expres-sions or cue words, where the first sentence(S1) may have any tense and aspect and thesecond sentence (S~) expresses a simple pastevent.
We constrain $2 in this way because oflack of space; additional constraints are givenin (Hitzeman et al, 1994).
For example, ifa simple past eventive sentence follows a sim-ple past eventive sentence the second event canbe understood to occur just after the first, toprecede the first or to refer to the same eventas the first (an elaboration relation), but thetwo events cannot overlap; these constraints255are weaker, however, than explicit clues suchas cue words to rhetorical relations and tempo-ral expressions.
When $1 expresses a state, itis possible for the temporal relation to hold be-tween the event described by $2 and the eventor activity most closely preceding $1, i.e., thetemporal focus of $1, here referred to as TF1.1However, we haven't solved the problemcompletely at this point: although tense canprovide a further constraint on the temporalstructure of such discourses, it can also add afurther ambiguity.
Consider (9):(9) Sam rang the bell.
He had lost the key.Clearly, the event described by the past perfectsentence must precede the event described bythe first, simple past sentence.
However, if athird sentence is added, an ambiguity results.Consider the following possible continuationsof (9):(10) a .
.
.
.
Hannah opened the door.b .
.
.
.
It fell through a hole in his pocket.The temporal relation between these continu-ations and the portion of earlier text they a t -tach to is constrained along the lines sketchedbefore.
The problem here is determining whichthread in (9) they continue; (10a) continues thethread in which Sam rings the bell, but (10b)continues the thread in which Sam loses thekey.A further ambiguity is that when the thirdsentence is past perfect, it may be a continua-tion of a preceding thread or the start of a newthread itself.
Consider:(11) a. Sam rang the bell.
He had lost thekey.
It had fallen through a hole inhis pocket.b.
John got to work late.
He had leftthe house at 8.
He had eaten a bigbreakfast.In (a) the third sentence continues the threadabout losing the key; in (b) the third starts a1 In this chart it appears that whether the tenseis simple past or past perfect makes no difference,and that only aspect affects the possible tempo-ral relations between $1 and $2.
However, it isimportant not to ignore tense because other com-binations of tense and aspect do show that tenseaffects which relations are possible, e.g., a simplepast stative $2 cannot have a precede relation withany $1, while a past perfect stative $2 can.new thread.
2For the problem with multi-sentence dis-courses, and the "threads" that sentences con-tinue, we use an implementation of tempo-rM centering (Kameyama et al, 1993; Poesio,1994).
This is a technique similar to the type ofcentering used for nominal anaphora (Sidner,1983; Grosz et al, 1983).
Centering assumesthat discourse understanding requires ome no-tion of "aboutness."
While nominal centeringassumes there is one object that the current dis-course is "about," temporal centering assumesthat there is one thread that the discourse iscurrently following, and that, in addition totense and aspect constraints, there is a prefer-ence for a new utterance to continue a threadwhich has a parallel tense or which is seman-tically related to it and a preference to con-tinue the current thread rather than switchingto another thread.
Kameyama et al (1993)confirmed these preferences when testing theirideas on the Brown corpus.As an example of how the temporal centeringpreference techniques can reduce ambiguity, re-call example (9) and the possible continuationsshown in (10).
The difficulty in these examplesis determining whether the third sentence con-tinues the thread begun by the first or secondsentence.
For example, in (10a) the preferencetechnique which allows us to choose the firstthread over the second is one which assigns ahigher rating to a thread whose tense is parallelto that of the new sentence; in this case bothSam rang the bell and Hannah opened the doorare in the simple past tense.
In example (10b)the fact that the key is mentioned only in thesecond sentence of (9) links (10b) with the sec-ond thread.
To handle an example like (12), weemploy a preference for relating a sentence toa thread that has content words that are ratedas semantically "close" to that of the sentence:(12) Sam rang the bell.
He had lost the key.His keyring b~okeJWe store semantic patterns between words as acheap and quick form of world knowledge; these2We will not discuss the additional problem thatif the final sentence in ( l lb) is the end of the text,the text is probably ill-formed.
This is becausea well-formed text should not leave threads "dan-gling" or unfinished.
This is probably also the rea-son for the awkwardness of the well-known exam-ple Max poured a cup of coffee.
He had entered theroo~' l .256rhet reinjust_before overlaps same_event precedes no_temp_relnsequences causes background elaboration results reversesequence contrast list enumerationFigure 1.
The type hierarchy used for constraints.patterns are easier to provide than are the de-tailed world knowledge postulates required insome other approaches, and result in similarand sometimes more precise temporal struc-tures with less processing overhead.
Usingthe semantic patterns we know that key andkeyring are semantically close, and throughthat semantic link between the second andthird sentences we prefer to connect the thirdsentence to the thread begun by the second.
3The approach to representing semantic rela-tionships we take is one used by Morris &:Hirst (1991) wherein the words in the lexiconare associated with each other in a thesaurus-like fashion and given a rating according to howsemantically "close" they are.
We thus avoidrelying on high-level inferences and very spe-cific world knowledge postulates, our goal beingto determine the temporal structure as much aspossible prior to the application of higher-levelinferences.those in previous threads, in order to ratethe semantic "closeness" of the DCU toeach thread.SEM_ASPECT: Contains the semantic aspect(event, state, activity).
We have extendedthe Penn & Carpenter implementation ofthe HPSG grammar so that semantic aspectis calculated compositionally (and storedhere).RHET_RELN: The relation between this DCUand a previous one.
Lexical items andphrases such as cue words (stored inCUE_WORD) affect the value of this slot.TEMP_CENTER: Used for temporal centering;Keeps track of the thread currently be-ing followed (since there is a preference forcontinuing the current thread) and all thethreads that have been constructed so farin the discourse.3 An  HPSG imp lementat ion  of ad i scourse  grammarFollowing Scha ~ Polanyi (1988) and Priistet al(1994), our model of discourse consistsof units called Discourse Constituent Units(ecus) which are related by various temporaland rhetorical relations.
A basic DCU repre-sents a sentence (or clause), and complex DCUsare built up from basic and complex DCUs.In our ALE implementation, a DCU containsthe following slots for temporal information:FWD_CENTER: Existing threadsBKWD_CENTER: The thread currently be-ing followedCLOSED_THREADS: Threads no longeravailable for continuationTEMP..EXPR_RELNS: Stores the semantic inter-pretation of temporal expressions associ-ated with this DCU.TEMP-RELNS: Stores the temporal relationsbetween the eventualities in the discourse.CUE_WORD: Cues to rhetorical structure, e.g.,"because.
"V_AND_NP_LIST: Contains content words foundin this DcU, and is used to compare thecontent words of the current DCU with3Semantic loseness ratings won't help in exam-ples (9) - (10) because there is as strong~a relation-ship between door and bell as there is between doorand key.TEMPFOC: The most recent event in the cur-rent thread which a subsequent eventualitymay elaborate upon (same-event), overlap,come just_after or precede.TENASP: Keeps track of the tense and syntacticaspect of the DCU (if the DCU is simple).TENSE: past, pres, futASPECT: simple, perf, prog, perf_prog257To allow the above-mentioned types of infor-mation to mutually constrain each other, weemploy a hierarchy of rhetorical and tempo-ral relations (illustrated in Figure 1), using theALE system in such a way that clues such astense and cue words work together to reducethe number of possible temporal structures.This approach improves upon earlier work ondiscourse structure such as (Lascarides andAsher, 1991) and (Kehler, 1994) in reducingthe number of possible ambiguities; it is alsomore precise than the Kamp/Hinrichs/Parteeapproach in that it takes into account waysin which the apparent defaults can be overrid-den and differentiates between events and ac-tivities, which behave differently in narrativeprogression.Tense, aspect, rhetorical relations and tem-poral expressions affect the value of theRHET..RELN type  that expresses the relation-ship between two I)CVs: cue words are lexicMlymarked according to what rhetorical relationthey specify, and this rel.ation is passed on tothe DCU.
Explicit relation markers uch as cuewords and temporal relations must be consis-tent and take priority over indicators uch astense and aspect.
For example, sentence (13)will be ruled out because the cue phrase as a re-sult conflicts with the temporal expression tenminutes earlier:(13) #Mary  pushed John and as a result tenminutes earlier he fell.On the other hand, if temporal expressions in-dicate an overlap relation and cue words indi-cate a background relation as in (14), these con-tributions are consistent and the KHET_R.ELNtype will contain a background value (the morespecific value of the two):(14) Superman stopped the train just intime.
Meanwhile, J immy Olsen was introuble.4 The algorithmFor reasons of space it is difficult to give ex-amples of the sign-based output of the gram-mar, or of the ALE rules, so we will restrictourselves here to a summary of the algorithmand to a very limited rendition of the systemoutput.
The Mgorithm used for calculating thetemporal structure of a discourse can be sum-marised as follows.
It consists of two parts, theconstraint-based portion and the preference-based portion:1.
The possible temporal/rhetorical relationsare constrained.
(a) If there is a temporal expression, itdetermines the temporal relationshipof the new DCU to the previous ones,and defaults are ignored.
(b) Lexical items such as cue words influ-ence the value of the RHET~ELN type(See Figure 1).
(c)-If steps (a) and (b) attempt o placeconflicting vMues in the I~HET_RELNslot, the parse will fail.
(d) If there is no temporal expression orcue phrase, tense and semantic as-pect also influence the vMue of theI~HET..RELN type (See Table 1), sothat rhetorical relations, tense and as-pect constrain each other.2.
If more than one possibility exists, seman-tic preferences are used to choose betweenthe possibilities.
(a) A "semantic distance" rating betweenthe new DCU and each previous threadis determined.
(If there are no exist-ing threads a new thread is started.
)(b) Other preferences, such as a prefer-ence for relating the new DCU to athread with parallel tense, are em-ployed (See (Kameyama et al, 1993;Poesio, 1994) for details), and the re-sulting ratings are factored into therating for each thread.
(c) If the thread currently being followedis among the highest rated threads,this thread is continued.
(This corre-sponds to temporal centering's prefer-ence to continue the current thread.
)(d) If not, the DCU may continue any ofthe highest rated threads, and each ofthese solutions is generated.Charts such as Table 1 provide the observa-tions we use to fill in the vMue of I~HET_RELN.Those observations are summarised below.
Inwhat follows, the event variable associated withDCOi is e~ and the TEMPFOC of  el is the mostrecent event/activity processed, possibly el it-self:258?
e2 can overlap with el if-- DCU 2 describes a state, or- DCU1 describes a state and DCU2 de-scribes an activity.?
e2 can occur just-after the TEMPFOC of  elif-- DCU2 describes a simple tense event,or- DCU1 describes a complex tense clauseand DCU2 describes a complex tenseevent, or- DCU1 describes an event and DCU2describes an atelic or a simple tensestate, or- DCU1 describes a state and DCU2 de-scribes a simple tense activity.?
e~ can precede el if- DCU2 describes an event, or- DCU1 doesn't  describe an activity andDCU2 describes a past perfect stative.?
e2 can elaborate on el if- DCU1 describes an event, or- DCU1 describes an activity and DCU2describes an atelic, or- DCU~ and DCU2 describe states andeither DCU2 describes a simple tensestate or DCU1 describes a complextense state.Using this algorithm, we can precisely iden-tify the rhetorical and temporal relations whencue words to rhetorical structure are present,as in (15):(15) John fell (el) because Mary pushed himTEMP-RELNS: e 2 precedes elWe can also narrow the possibilities when nocue word is present by using constraints basedon observations of tense and aspect interactionssuch as those shown in Table 1.
For example, ifDCU1 represents a simple past eventive sentenceand DCU2 a past perfect eventive sentence, thenin spite of the lack of rhetorical cues we knowthat e2 precedes el, as in (16):(16) Sam rang the doorbell (el).
He had lostthe key (e2).TEMP-RELNS: e2 precedes elAlso, when several structures are possible wecan narrow the possibilities by using prefer-ences, as in the examples below:(17) Sam arrived at the house at eight (el).He had lost the key (e~).a .
.
.
.
He rang the bell (e3).TEMP-RELNS: e2 precedes el,e3 just-after elb .
.
.
.
It fell through a hole in his pocket(e~,).TEMP_RELNS: e 2 precedes el,e3, just-after e2If we allow any of the four possible temporalrelations between events, both continuations ofsentence (17) would have 17 readings (4 x 4 +1 reading in which the third sentence begins anew thread).
Using constraints, we reduce thenumber of readings to 4.
Using preferences,we reduce that to 2 readings for each continua-tion.
The correct temporal relations are shownin (17).
45 An  underspec i f iedrepresentat ionBy using constraints and preferences, we canconsiderably reduce the amount of ambiguityin the temporal/rhetorical  structure of a dis-course.
However, explicit cues to rhetorical andtemporal relations are not always available, andthese cases result in more ambiguity than is de-sirable when processing large discourses.Consider, however, that instead of generat-ing all the possible temporM/rhetorical  struc-tures, we could use the information available tofill in the most restrictive type possible in thetype hierarchy of temporal/rhetorical  relationsshown in Figure 1.
We can then avoid generat-ing the structures until higher-level informationcan be applied to complete the disambiguationprocess.6 Conclus ionWe presented a brief description of an algo-r ithm for determining the temporal structure4The other reading, in which the third sentenceis an elaboration of one of the preceding events,must not be ruled out because there are cases suchas Sam arrived at the house at eight.
He rang thebell.
He let it ring \]or two minutes, in which suchelaboration is possible.259of discourse.
The algorithm is part of an HPSG-style discourse grammar implemented in Car-penter's ALE formalism.
Its novel features arethat it treats tense, aspect, temporal adverbialsand rhetorical relations as mutually constrain-ing; it postulates less ambiguity than currenttemporal structuring algorithms do; and it usessemantic loseness and other preference tech-niques rather than full-fledged world knowl-edge postulates to determine preferences overremaining ambiguities.
We also recommendedusing an underspecified representation f tem-poral/rhetorical structure to avoid generatingall solutions until higher-level knowledge canaid in reducing ambiguity.ReferencesBob Carpenter, 1993.
ALE: The AttributeLogic Engine User's Guide.
Laboratory forComputational Linguistics, Philosophy De-partment, Carnegie Mellon University, ver-sion fl, May.Barbara J. Grosz, Aravind Joshi, andScott Weinstein.
1983.
Providing a uni-fied account of definite noun phrases in dis=.course.
In the proceedings of the 21st An-nual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 44-50.Erhard W. Hinrichs.
1981.
Temporaleanaphora in englischen.
StaatsExamen the-sis, Universit~t Tubingen.Janet Hitzeman, Claire Grover, and MarcMoens.
1994.
The implementation f thetemporal portion of the discourse grammar.Deliverable D.2.Temporal, LRE 61-062, Uni-versity of Edinburgh, December.Megumi Kameyama, Rebecca Passonneau, andMassimo Poesio.
1993.
Temporal center-ing.
In the proceedings of the 31st An-nual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 70-77, Columbus,OH.Hans Kamp.
1979.
Events, instant and tem-poral reference.
In R.. Bauerle, U. Egli,and A. yon Stechow, editors, Semantics fromDifferent Points of View, pages 376-417,Springer-Verlag.Andrew Kehler.
1994.
Temporal relations:Reference or discourse coherence?
In theproceedings of the 32nd Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguis-tics, pages 319-321, June.Alex Lascarides and Nicholas Asher.
1991.Discourse relations and defeasible knowl-edge.
In the proceedings of the 29th An-nual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 55-63, Universityof California t Berkeley.J.
Morris and Graeme Hirst.
1991.
Lexical co-hesion computed by thesaural relations as anindicator of the structure of text.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 17(1):21-48.Barbara Hall Partee.
1984.
Nominal and tem-poral anaphora.
Linguistics and Philosophy,7:243-286.Massimo Poesio.
1994.
Discourse Interpreta-tion and the Scope of Operators.
Ph.D. the-sis, University of Rochester, Department ofComputer Science, Rochester, NY.Carl Pollard and Ivan A.
Sag.
1994.
Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar.
Univer-sity of Chicago Press and CSLI Publications.Hub Priist, Remko Scha and Martin vanden Berg.
1994.
Discourse grammar andverb phrase anaphora.
Linguistics and Phi-losophy, 17:261-327.Remko Scha and Livia Polanyi.
1988.
An aug-mented context free grammar for discourse.In Proceedings of the 12th Conference onComputational Linguistics, pages 573-577,Prague, August.Candace L. Sidner.
1983.
Focusing in thecomprehension of definite anaphora.
InM.
Brady and R. Berwick, editors, Computa-tional Models of Discourse.
MIT Press, Cam-bridge, MA.260
