The Semantics of Resource Sharing inLexical-Functional GrammarAndrew Kehler"Aiken Computation Lab33 Oxford StreetHarvard UniversityCambridge, MA 02138Mary Dalrymple tJohn Lamping tVijay Saraswat tXerox PARC3333 Coyote Hill RoadPalo Alto, CA 94304AbstractWe argue that the resource shar-ing that is commonly manifest insemantic accounts of coordinationis instead appropriately handled interms of structure-sharing in LFGf-structures.
We provide an extensionto the previous account of LFG seman-tics (Dalrymple t al., 1993a) accord-ing to which dependencies betweenf-structures are viewed as resources;as a result a one-to-one correspon-dence between uses of f-structures andmeanings is maintained.
The result-ing system is sufficiently restricted incases where other approaches overgen-erate; the very property of resource-sensitivity for which resource sharingappears to be problematic actuallyprovides explanatory advantages oversystems that more freely replicate re-sources during derivation.1 Introduct ionThe resource-based approach to semantic ompo-sition in Lexical-Functional Grammar (LFG) ob-tains the interpretation for a phrase via a logicaldeduction, beginning with the interpretations ofits parts as premises (Dalrymple et al, 1993a).The resource-sensitive system of linear logic isused to compute meanings in accordance withrelationships manifest in LFG f-structures.
Theproperties of the system ensure that meanings areused exactly once, allowing coherence and com-pleteness conditions on f-structures (Kaplan andBresnan, 1982, pages 211-212) to be maintained.However.
there are cases where a single con-stituent appears to yield more than one contribu-tion to the meaning of an utterance.
This is most*kehl er@das, harvard, edut{dalrymple, i amping, saraswat }@parc.
xerox, tomobvious in, but is not limited to, sentences involv-ing coordination.
In example (1), for instant,'.NAFTA is the object of two different verbs:(1) Bill supported, and Hillary opposed,NAFTA.Since the hallmark of the linear logic approach isto ensure that f-structure contributions are  u l i -lized exactly once in a derivation, such construc-tions would at first glance appear to be problem-atic for the approach.We argue that the resource sharing that iscommonly manifest in the treatment of coordi-nation in other approaches i appropriately han-dled by exploiting the structure-sharing in LF(',f-structures.
We refine our previous analysis toaccount for cases where an f-structure is reachedby multiple paths from an enclosing f-structure.Dalrymple et al (199aa) provides an accountof LFG semantics that represents the meaning oflexical items with linear logic formulas.
Theseformulas manipulate basic assertions of the formf~,r'.~M, for f-structures f and meaning logzcterms M. Here (r is a mapping, the semantic pro-jectign, that relates f-structures to semantic struc-tures.
To distinguish between multiple paths en-tering an f-structure, we now take cr to map fromsets of paths in f-structures to semantic structures.Further, the paths between f-structures are madeavailable in the semantic space as resources.
Thismakes it possible for the semantic formulas to ex-ploit information about the multiple paths intoan f-structure in order to account for the multi-ple uses of the f-structure's semantic ontribution.The resulting system is sufficiently restricted incases where other approaches overgenerate; thevery property of resource-sensitivity for which re-source sharing appears to be problematic actu-ally provides explanatory advantages over systemsthat more freely replicate resources during deriva-tion.In Section 2, we review previous approaches tothe semantics of coordination and argument shar-31ing.
and make note of some of their drawbacks.We describe the revised sere.antic framework inSection 3. and work through several examples ofnon-constituent coordination (specifically, right-node raising) in Section 4.
We discnss examplesinvolving intensioual verbs in Section 5,2 Prev ious  Work2.1 Combinatory Categorial GrammarSteedman (198.5; 1989; 1990), working in theframework of Combinatory Categorial Grammar(CCG), presents what is probably the most ade-quate analysis of non-constituent coordination todate.
As noted by Steedman and discussed byOehrle (1990), the addition of the rule of functioncomposition to the inventory of syntactic rules inCategorial Grammar  enables the formation of con-stituents with right-peripheral gaps, providing abasis for a clean treatment of cases of right noderaising as exemplified by sentence (1).
Such exam-ples are handled by a coordination schema whichallows like categories to be conjoined, shown in(2).
(2) Coordination: X CONJ  X ~-.- XThis schema gives rise to various actual ruleswhose semantics depends on the number of ar-guments that the shared material takes.
For thecases of RNR considered here, the rule has theform shown in (3).
(3) (coordination)X/Y:F CON J:& X/Y:G =~ X/Y:Ax.
(Fx&Gx)The contraction from )~x.Fx and Ax.Gx to)~x.
(Fx&Gx) in this rule allows for the single ar-gument o be utilized twice.As noted by Hudson (1976), however, not allexamples of RNR involve coordinate structures:(4) Citizens who support, paraded againstpoliticians who oppose, two trade bills.Obviously, such cases fall outside of the purviewof the coordination schema.
An analysis for thissentence is avi~ilable in the CCG framework by theaddition of the xsubstitute combinator (Steedman,p.c.
), as defined in Steedman (1987).
(5) (<xsubstitute)Y/Z:G (X\Y) /Z:F  =~ X/Z: )~x.
(Fx(Gx))The use of this combinator assimilates cases ofnoncoordinate RNR to cases involving parasiticgaps.While this approach has some drawbacks, 1 wedo not offer a competing analysis of the syntax ofsentences like (4) here.
Rather, we seek an anal-ysis of RNR (and of resource sharing in general)that is uniform in the semantics; such a treatmentisn't available in CCG because of its tight integra-tion between syntax and semantics.2.2 Par tee  and  RoothPerhaps the most influential and widely-adoptedsemantic treatment of coordination is the ap-proach of Partee and Rooth (1983).
They pro-pose a generalized conjunction scheme in whichconjuncts of the same type can be combined...ksis the case with Steedman's operators, contractioninherent in the schema allows for a single sharedargument to be distributed as an argument of eachconjunct.
Type-lifting is allowed to produce liketypes when necessary; the combination of the co-ordination scheme and type-lifting can have the ef-fect of 'copying' an argument of higher type, suchas a quantifier in the case of coordinated inten-sional verbs.
They propose a 'processing strat-egy' requiring that expressions are interpreted a!the lowest possible type, with type-raising takingplace only where necessary.To illustrate.
Partee and Rooth assume that ex-tensional verbs such as find are entered in the lex-icon with basic type (e, (e, t)}, whereas intensionalverbs like want, which require a quantifier as anargument, have type (((e, t}, t), (e, t}) (ignoring in-tensionality).
Two extensional verbs such as findand support are coordinated at their basic types:(6) find and support (type (e, (e, t}}):)W.)~x.\[f ind( x, y) A support(x, y)\]Two intensional verbs such as want and seek arealso coordinated at their basic (higher) types:(7) want and seek (type (((e, t), t}, (e, t))):)~P.
)~x.\[want(x, 79) A seek(z, 79)\]The argument o this expression is a quantifiedNP.
When an intensional and an extensional verbare coordinated, the extensional verb must be1We find two problems with the approach as itstands.
First, the intuition that one gap is 'parasitic'upon the other in cases like (4) is not strong, whereasthe CCG analysis uggests an asymmetry between thetwo gaps.
Second, the combinator appears to causeovergeneration.
While it allows sentence (4), it alsoallows sentence (b), where two trade bills is analyzedas the object of both verbs:(b) *Politicians who oppose, paraded against, twotrade bills.32type-raised to promote it to the type of the in-tensional verb:(8) want and find (type <<(e,t>,t),<e,t>>):,\7).Ax.\[want(x, 7 9)A 7)( Ay.find(x, y))\]Again, this leads to the desired result.
How-ever, an unwelcome consequence of this approach,which appears to have gone unnoticed in the lit-erature, arises in cases in which more than twoverbs are conjoined.
If an intensional verb is co-ordinated with more than one extensional verb, acopy of the quantifier will be distributed to eachverb in the coordinate structure.
For instance, in(9), two extensional verbs and an intensional verbare coordinated.
(9) want, find, and support:AP.Ax.\[ want(x, 7 0)A ~P(Ay.find(x, y))A 7)(Ay.support(x, y)) \]Application of this expression to a quantifier e-sults in two quantifiers being scoped separatelyover the extensional verbs.
This is the wrong re-sult; in a sentence such as Hillary wanted, found,and supported two candidates, the desired result iswhere one quantifier scopes over both extensionalverbs (that is, Hillary found and supported thesame two candidates), just as in the case where allthe verbs are extensional.
Further, there does notseem to be an obvious way to modify the Parteeand Rooth proposal so as to produce the correctresult, the problem being that the ability to copyquantifiers inherent in their schema is too unre-stricted.A second problem with the account is that, aswith Steedman's coordination schema, Partee andRooth's type-raising strategy only applies to coor-dinate structures.
However, the need to type-raiseextends to cases not involving coordination, as insentence (10).
(10) Citizens who seek, paraded against politi-cians who have, a decent health insurancepolicy.We will present an analysis that preserves theintuition underlying Partee and Rooth's process-ing strategy, but that predicts and generates thecorrect reading for cases such as (9).
Furthermore,the account applies equally to examples not in-volving coordination, as is the case in sentence(10).3 LFG and L inear  LogicLFG assumes two syntactic levels of representa-tion: constituent structure (c-structure) 2 encodesphrasal dominance and precedence relations, andfunctional structure (f-structure) encodes syntac-tic predicate-argument structure.
The f-structurefor sentence (11) is given in (12):(11) Bill supported NAFTA.
(12)f:"PILED 'SUPPORT' \]SUBJ g: \[ PRED 'BILL'\]OBJ h: \[ PILED 'NAFTA'\]Lexical entries specify syntactic constraints onf-structures as well as semantic information:(13) Bill NP (7 PRED) : 'BILL'\[c, ~ Billsupported V (\[ PRED)= 'SUPPORT'VX, Y.
(T susJ)o---*X?
(T osJL"~Y---o ~o ~ supported(X, Y)NAFTA NP (T PRED) = 'NAFTA'Ta ~ NAFTASemantic information is expressed in (1) a mean-ing language and (2) a language for assemblingmeanings, or glue language.
The meaning lan-guage could be that of any appropriate logic:for present purposes, higher-order logic will suf-rice.
Expressions of the meaning language (suchas Bill) appear on the right side of the meaningrelation ---~.The glue language is the tensor fragment of lin-ear logic (Girard, 1987).
The semantic ontribu-tion of each lexical entry, which we will refer toas a meaning constructor, is a linear-logic formulaconsisting of instructions in the glue language forcombining the meanings of the lexical entry's syn-tactic arguments to obtain the meaning of thef-structure headed by the entry.
For instance, themeaning constructor for the verb supported is aglue language formula paraphrasable as: "If mySUBJ means X and (?)
my OBJ means Y, then( ---o ) my sentence means supported(X, Y)".In the system described in Dalrymple etal.
(1993a), the ~ relation associates expressionsin the meaning language with f-structures.
As aresult, each f-structure contributed a single mean-ing constructor as a resource to be used in aderivation.
Because linear logic does not haveany form of logical contraction (as is inherent in2For discussion of c-structure and its relation tof-structure, see, for example, Kaplan and Bresnan(1982).33the approaches discussed earlier), cases where re-sources are shared appear to be problematic inthis framework.
Intuitively.
however, the needfor the multiple use of an f-structure meaning re-sults not from the appearance of a particular lex-ical item (e.g., a conjunction) or a particular syn-tactic construction (e.g., parasitic gap construc-tions), but instead results from multiple pathsto it from within the f-structure that contains it,where structure sharing is motivated on syntacticgrounds.
We therefore revise the earlier frame-work to model what we will term occurrences off-structures as resources explicitly in the logic.F-structures can mathematically be regardedas (finite) functions from a set of attributes toa set of atomic values, semantic forms and (re-cursively) f-structures.
We will identify an oc-currence of an f-structure with a path (from theroot) to that occurrence; sets of occurrences of anf-structure can therefore be identified with pathsets in the f-structure.
We take, then, the do-main of the a projection to be path sets in theroot f-structure.
Only those path sets S are con-sidered which satisfy the property that the exten-sions of each path in S are identical.
Thereforethe f-structure reached by each of these paths isidentical.
Hence from a path set S, we can readoff an f-structure S I.
In the examples discussedin Dalrymple et al (1993a) there is a one-to-onecorrespondence b tween the set of path sets S andthe set of f-structures SI picked out by such pathsets, so the two methods yield the same predic-tions for those cases.Relations between path sets are represented ex-plicitly as resources in the logic by R-relations.R-relations are represented as three-place predi-cates of the form R(F, P, G) which indicate that(the path set) G appears at the end of a path P(of length 1) extending (the path set) F. Thatis, the f-structure Gf appears at the end of thesingleton path P in the f-structure Fy.
For ex-ample, the f-structure given in (12) results in twoR-relations:(i) R(f, SUB J, 9)(ii) R(f, OBJ, h)Because f and g represent path sets entering anf-structure that they label, R-relation (i) indicatesthat the set of paths ( f  sun J) (which denotes theset of paths f concatenated with SUB J) is a subsetof the set of paths denoted by g. An axiom for in-terpretation provides the links between meaningsof path sets related by R-relations.Ax iom I: !
(VF, G,P,X.
Go-'-*X--o !
(R(F,P,G) --o (F P)o.-.~X))According to this axiom, if a set of paths G hasmeaning X. then for each R-relation R(F, P,G)that has been introduced, a resource (F P)?---*.\"can be produced.
The linear logic operator '!'
al-lows the conclusion (R(F, P,G) --o (F P)~,.-.~X)to be used as many times as necessary: oncefor each R-relation R(F, P, G) introduced by thef-structure.We show how a deduction can be performed toderive a meaning for example (11) using the mean-ing constructors in (13), R-relations (i) and (ii).and Axiom I. Instantiating the lexical entries forBill, NAFTA, and supported according to the la-bels on the f-structure in (12), we obtain the fol-lowing premises:bill: go ~ BillNAFTA:  ha"-* NAFTAsuppor ted :  VX, Y.
( f  SUBJ)a'x~X?
(f OBJ>o"--*Y-o fa.-.~ supported( X, y)First, combining Axiom I with the contributionfor Bill yields:(14) !VF, P. R(F, P, g) ---o (F P)o...., BillThis formula states that if a path set is R-relatedto the (path set corresponding to the) f-structurefor Bill, then it receives Bill as its meaning.
FromR-relation (i) and formula (14), we derive (15).giving the meaning of the subject of f.(15) (f suBJ)a"~BillThe meaning constructor for supported com-bines with (15) to derive the formula forb i l l - suppor ted  shown in (16).
(16) V\]".
(fOBJ) "-~r-o f~ ~ supported(Bill, Y)Similarly, using the meaning of NAFTA, R-relation (ii), and Axiom I, we can derive the mean-ing shown in (17):(17) (f OBJ)o'..*NAFTAand combine it with (16) to derive (18):(18) fo'--* supported( Bill, NAFTA)At each step, universal instantiation and modusponens are used.
A second derivation is also pos-sible, in which suppor ted  and NAFTA are com-bined first and the result is then combined withBill.The use of linear logic provides a flexible mech-anism for deducing meanings of sentences basedon their f-structure representations.
Accounts of34various linguistic phenomena have been developedwithin the framework on which our extension isbased, including quantifiers and anaphora (Dal-rymple et al, 1994a), intensional verbs (Dalrym-pie et al, 1994b), and complex predicates (Dal-rymple et al, !993b).
The logic fits well with the'resource-sensitivity' of natural language seman-tics: there is a one-to-one correspondence b tweenf-structure relationships and meanings; the multi-ple use of resources arises from multiple paths tothem in the f-structure.
In the next section, weshow how this system applies to several cases ofright-node raising.4 Examples4.1 RNR wi th  Coord inat ionFirst we consider the derivation of the basic caseof right-node raising (RN R) illustrated in sentence(i), repeated in (19).
(19) Bill supported, and Hillary opposed,NAFTA.The f-structure for example (19) is shown in (20).
(~o)f:"PREDfl : SUBJOBJ'SUPPORT' \]g:\[ PRED 'BILL'\]h: \[ PRED 'NAFTA' \] ,--PRED ~OPPOSE' H~SUBJ i: \[ PRED ' A:OBJThe meaning constructors contributed by the lex-ical items are as follows:Bill: ga"-* BillHi l lary:  io ~ Hillarysuppor ted :  gX, Y.
(fl soaa)o--~X?
(k oaa)~-,* Y-o f,o..., supported(X, Y)opposed:  VX, Y.
(f2 SUBJ)~-~X?
(f~ os JL~ v-o f2a-,-~opposed(X, y )and: VX, Y.
( f  CONJ)a"~X?
(f coNa)~r---o f~ ~ and(X, Y)and2:  !
(VX, Y.
( f  CONJ)a"-,*X?f~--* Y--o f , - ,~and(X, r ) )NAFTA:  ho-.~ NAFTAHere, we treat and as a binary relation.
Thissuffices for this example, but in general we wiilhave to allow for cases where more than twoconstituents are conjoined.
Therefore, a secondmeaning constructor and2 is also contributed bythe appearance of and, prefixed with the linearlogic operator '!'.
so that it may be used as manytimes as necessary (and possibly" not at all, as isthe case in this example).The R-relations resulting from the feature-valuerelationships manifest in the f-structure in (20)are :  3(i) R(f, CONJ.
f t )(ii) R(f,  CONJ, f2)(iii) R(f l ,  SUB J, 9)(iv) R(fl, oaa, h)(v) R(f2, SUB J, i)(vi) (A, oBJ, h)There are several equivalent derivation orders:here we step through one.
4 Using the meanings forBill.
supported, Hillary, and opposed, R-relations(iii) and (v), and Axiom I, we can derive mean-ings for Bill supported and Hillary opposed in thefashion described in Section 3:b i l l -supported:  VY.
(ft OBJ}e"'~Y---o fla "-" supported(Bill, Y )hi l lary-opposed:gZ.
(f20BJ} o"~ Z.--o f2~, ~ opposed( IIillary, Z)We combine the antecedents and consequents ofthe foregoing formulae to yield:b i l l - suppor ted  ?
h i l lary-opposed:VY, Z.
(fl ?B J) ----~Y ?
(f2 oaJ)a"-"Z---o fla-,-+ supported(Bill, Y)?
f2a ~ opposed( Hillary, Z)Consuming the meaning of and and R-relations (i)and (ii), and using Axiom I, we derive:b i l l - suppor  ted-and-h i l l a ry -opposed l :vY, z.
(k osaL ~ r ?
(A oaaL-,-, z--o f~ ~ and(supported(Bill, Y),opposed( Hillary, Z) )Using Axiom I and R-relations (iv) and (vi), thefollowing implication can be derived:VX.
hc~"~ X-o (fl oaJ)o"-+X ?
(f20BJ)~,---*XUsing these last two formulae, by transitivity weobtain:b i l l - suppor ted-and-h i l la ry -opposed2:VX.
h~',~ X-o f o -,., and( supported( Bill, X),opposed( ttillary, X)  )aWe treat the CONJ features as unordered, as theyare in the f-structure set.4In the interest of space, we will skip some inter-mediate steps in the derivation.35Finally, consuming the contribution of NAFT\4,by Ulfiversal instantiation and modus ponens weobtain a meaning for the whole sentence:fo'--*and( supported( Bill, N : tFTA ),opposed( Hillary, NAFTA) )At this stage, all accountable resources have beenconsumed, and the deduction is complete.4.2 RNR wi th  Coord inat ion  andQuantified NPsWe now consider sentence (21), where a quantifiedNP is shared.
(21) Bill supported, and Hillary opposed, twotrade bills.Partee and Rooth (1983) observe, and we agree,that the quantifier in such cases only scopes once,resulting in the reading where Bill supported andHillary opposed the same two bills.
5 Our analysispredicts this fact in the same way as Partee andRooth's analysis does.The meanings contributed by the lexieal itemsand f-structure dependencies are the same as inthe previous example, except for that of the ob-ject NP.
Following Dalrymple et al (1994a), themeaning derived using the contributions from anf-structure h for two trade bills is:two-trade-bills:VH, S. (Vz.
h~-.~x --o H~S(~) )-o g. .~two(z,  tradebill(z), S(z))The derivation is just as before, up until thefinal step, where we have derived the formulalabeled b i l l - suppor ted-and-h i l l a ry -opposed2.This formula matches the antecedent of the quan-tified NP meaning, so by universal instantiationand modus ponens we derive:f a "-* two( z, tradebill( z), and(supported(Bill, z ),opposed( Hillary, z ) ) )With this derivation, there is only one quantifiermeaning which scopes over the meaning of thecoordinated material.
A result where the quan-tifier meaning appears twice, scoping over eachconjunct separately, is not available with the ruleswe have given thus far; we return to this point inSection 5.The analysis readily extends to cases of nonco-ordinate RNR such as example (4), repeated asexample (22).SWe therefore disagree with Hendricks (1993), whoclaims that such sentences readily allow a reading in-volving four trade bills.
(22) Citizens who support, paraded againstpoliticians who oppose, two trade bills.In our analysis, the f-structure for two trade billsis resource-shared as ttle object of the two verbs,just as it is in the coordinated case.Space limitations preclude our going throughthe derivation; however, it is straightforward giventhe semantic ontributions of the lexical items andR-relations.
The fact that there is no coordinationinvolved has no bearing on the result, since the s,.-mantles of resource-sharing is distinct from that ofcoordination in our analysis.
As previously noted.this separation is not possible in CCG because ofthe tight integration between syntax and seman-tics.
In LFG, the syntax/semantics interface ismore loosely coupled, affording the flexibility tohandle coordinated and non-coordinated cases ofRNR uniformly in the semantics.
This also al-lows for our semantics of coordination ot to r,'-quire schemas nor entities of polymorphic type:our meaning of and is type t x t --+ t.5 Intensional VerbsWe now return to consider cases involving inten-sional verbs.
The preferred reading for sentence(23), in which only one quantifier scopes over thetwo extensional predicates, is shown below:(23) Hi llary wanted, found, and supported twocandidates.and(wanted( Hillary,~)~Q.two( x, candidate(z), \['Q\](x))),two(z, candidale( z),and(found( Hillary, z),supported( Hillary, z ) ) ) )The f-structure for example (23) is given in (24)./ g:\[P o 1?
\[PRED 'CANDmATE'\] I I ,\]\ fl: L TMI: I2 /s~JL OBJIa: ~ sumOBJThe meaning constructors for the lexical items aregiven in Figure 1.
Recall that a second meaning36Hil lary:wanted:found:supported:and:and2:go "~ HillaryVX, Y.
(fl SUBJ)~ ~'" X(Vs,p.
(VX.
(fl susJ)~'--*X -o s--~p(X)) --o s-,~ Y(p))---o flz"'* wanted(X, "}")VX, Y.
(f2 sUBJ)~-~.?
'.9 (f20BJ)a""~ Y --,o f2~-.-~found(X, Y)VX, Y.
(f3 SUBJ),,---+X ?
(f30BJ)o"--~Y --<, f3o-.--supported(X, Y)VX, Y.
( f  CONJ)a",~X @ (f CONJ)o.
",.-~ Y ---o fo.-.-+and(X, Y)!
(VX, Y.
( f  CONJ)cy"c*X @ fa-.~ Y --o fo-.~and(X, Y))two-,:andidates:VH, S. (Vz.
h~X --o l f~S(z ) )  --o H-.-*two(z, candidate(z), S(z))Figure 1: Meaning constructors for sentence (23)constructor and2 is introduced by and in order tohandle cases where there are more than two con-juncts; this contribution will be used once in thederivation of the meaning for sentence (23).
Thefollowing R-relations result from the f-structuralrelationships:(i) R(f, CONJ.
f l )(ii) R(f ,  CON J, f2)(iii) R(f, CONJ, f3)(iV) ~(f l ,  SUBJ, g)(v) R(f2, SUB J, g)(vi) /~(f3, SUB J, g)(vii) R(I1, OBJ, h)(viii) R(f2, OBJ, h)(ix) R(f3, OBJ, h)Following the analysis given in Dalrymple et al(1994b), the lexical entry for want takes a quan-tified NP as an argument.
This requires that thequantified NP meaning be duplicated, since other-wise no readings result.
We provide a special rulefor duplicating quantified NPs when necessary:(25) QNP Dupl icat ion:!
(VF, Q.\[VH, S. (Vx.
Fa-.-.x --~ H..-~S(x))--o H-,~Q(S)\]-o \[ \[VH, S. (Vx.
G~x --0 H-.~S(x))--o H.,-.Q(S)\]o \[vtL s. (vx.
F~x --o H~S(x) )--o H-,~,Q(S)\] \])In the interest of space, again we only show a fewsteps of the derivation.
Combining the meaningsfor Hillary, found, supported, and and, Axiom I,and R-relations (ii), (iii), (v), (vi), (viii), and (ix),we can derive:ha..~ x ---o f?,-,-*and(found( Hillary, x),supported( Hillary, x ) ) )We duplicate the meaning of two candidates usingQNP Duplication, and combine one copy with theforegoing formula to yield:f o ..... t wo( z, candidate(z),and(found( Hillary, z),supported( Hillary, z ) ) )We then combine the other meaning of two can-didates with the meanings of Hillary and wanted.and using Axiom I and R-relations (i), (iv), and(vii) we obtain:( f  CONJ ) o- "'+wanted(Hillary," AQ.two( z, candidate(z), \[-Q\](z)))Finally, using and2 with the two foregoing formu-lae, we deduce the desired result:f~ .-~ and(wanted( Hillary,"AQ.two( x, candidate(x), I-Q\] (x))).two(z, candidate(z),and(found( Hillary, z ),suppo~ted( HiUa~y, z))))We can now specify a Partee and Rooth style pro-cessing strategy, which is to prefer readings whichrequire the least use of QNP duplication.
Thisstrategy predicts the readings generated for theexamples in Section 4.
It also predicts the de-sired reading for sentence (23), since that readingrequires two quantifiers.
While the reading ener-ated by Partee and Rooth is derivable, it requiresthree quantifiers and thus uses QNP duplicationtwice, which is less preferred than the reading re-quiring two quantifiers which uses QNP duplica-tion once.
Also, it allows some flexibility in caseswhere pragmatics trongly suggests that quanti-tiers are copied and distributed for multiple ex-tensional verbs; unlike the Partee and Rooth ac-count, this would apply equally to the case wherethere are also intensional verbs and the case wherethere are not.
Finally, our account readily appliesto cases of intensional verbs without coordinationas in example (10), since it applies more generallyto cases of resource sharing.376 Conclusions and Future WorkWe have given an account of resource sharing inthe syntax/semantics nterface of LFG.
The mul-tiple use of semantic ontributions results fromviewing dependencies in f-structures as resources;in this way the one-to-one correspondence b -tween f-structure relations and meanings i main-tained.
The resulting account does not suffer fromovergeneration inherent in other approaches, andapplies equally to cases of resource sharing that donot involve coordination.
Furthermore, it lends it-self readily to an extension for the intensional verbcase that has advantages over the widely-assumedaccount of Partee and Rooth (1983).Here we have separated the issue of arriving atthe appropriate f-structure in the syntax from theissue of deriving the correct semantics from thef-structure.
We have argued that this is the cor-rect distinction to make, and have given a treat-ment of the second issue.
A treatment of the firstissue will be articulated in a future forum.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Sam Bayer, John Maxwell,Fernando Pereira, Dick Oehrle, Stuart Shieber,and especially Ron Kaplan for helpful discussionand comments.
The first author was supported inpart by National Science Foundation Grant IRI-9009018, National Science Foundation Grant IRI-9350192, and a grant from the Xerox Corporation.ReferencesMary Dalrymple, John Lamping, and VijaySaraswat.
1993a.
LFG semantics via con-straints.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Meeting ofthe European A CL, University of Utrecht, April.European Chapter of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Mary Dalrymple, Angie Hinrichs, John Lamping,and Vijay Saraswat.
1993b.
The resource logicof complex predicate interpretation.
In Proceed-ings of the 1993 Republic of China Computa-tional Linguistics Conference (ROCLING), Hsi-tou National Park, Taiwan, September.
Compu-tational Linguistics Society of R.O.C.Mary Dalrymple, John Lamping, Fernando C. N.Pereira, and Vijay Saraswat.
1994a.
A de-ductive account of quantification i LFG.
InMakoto Kanazawa, Christopher J. Pifi6n, andHenriette de Swart, editors, Quantifiers, De-duction, and Context.
Center for the Study ofLanguage and Information, Stanford, Califor-nia.
To appear.Mary Dalrymple, John Lamping, Fernando C. N.Pereira, and Vijay Saraswat.
1994b.
Inten-sional verbs without type-raising or lexical am-biguity.
In Conference on Information-OrientedApproaches to Logic, Language and Computa-tion, Moraga, California.
Saint Mary's College.J.-Y.
Girard.
1987.
Linear logic.
Theoretie~tlComputer Science, 45:1-102.Herman Hendriks.
1993.
Studied Flexibility: Cat-egories and Types in Syntax and Semantics.ILLC dissertation series 1993--5.
University ,)i"Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Holland.Richard A Hudson.
1976.
Conjunction re&l,'-tion, gapping, and right-node raising.
La,-guag e, 52(3):535-562.Ronald M. Kaplan and Joan Bresnan.
l!
)ST.Lexical-Functional Grammar: A formal sys-tem for grammatical representation.
In .loanBresnan, editor, The Mental Representatzo,of Grammatical Relations, pages 173-281.
Th,'MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Richard T. Oehrle.
1990.
Categorial fram,'-works, coordination, and extraction.
In AaronHalpern, editor, Proceedings of the Ninth W(stCoast Conference on Formal Linguistics, pages411-425.Barbara Partee and Mats Rooth.
1983.
General-ized conjunction and type ambiguity.
In Rain(~rBauerle, Christoph Schwarze, and Arnim yonStechow, editors, Meaning, Use, and Interpre-tation of Language, pages 361-383. de Gruyter.Berlin.Mark J. Steedman.
1985.
Dependency and coor-dination in the grammar of Dutch and English.Language, 61:523-568.Mark J. Steedman.
1987.
Combinatory grammarsand parasitic gaps.
Natural Language and Lin-guistic Theory, 5:403-439.Mark J. Steedman.
1989.
Constituency and coor-dination in a combinatory grammar.
In MarkBaltin and Anthony Kroch, editors, AlternatzvcConceptions of Phrase Structure, pages 201231.
Chicago University Press.Mark J. Steedman.
1990.
Gapping as con-stituent coordination.
Linguistics and Philo.s-ophy, 13(2):207-263.38
