Spl itt ing the Reference Time: Temporal  Anaphora andQuantif icat ion in DRTRani NelkenTel-Aviv UniversityTel-Aviv 69978, Israelnelken@math, tau.
ac.
ilNissim FrancezComputer Science DepartmentThe TechnionHaifa 32000, Israelfrancez~cs, technion, ac.
ilAbstractThis paper presents an analysis of tem-poral anaphora in sentences which con-tain quantification over events, withinthe framework of Discourse Representa-tion Theory.
The analysis in (Partee,1984) of quantified sentences, introducedby a temporal connective, gives thewrong truth-conditions when the tempo-ral connective in the subordinate clauseis before or after.
This problem has beenpreviously analyzed in (de Swart, 1991)as an instance of the proportion problem,and given a solution from a GeneralizedQuantifier approach.
By using a care-ful distinction between the different no-tions of reference time, based on (Kampand Reyle, 1993), we propose a solu-tion to this problem, within the frame-work of Dt~T.
We show some applica-tions of this solution to additional tem-poral anaphora phenomena in quantifiedsentences.1 IntroductionThe analysis of temporal expressions in naturallanguage discourse provides a challenge for con-temporary semantic theories.
(Partee, 1973) in-troduced the notion of temporal anaphora, to ac-count for ways in which temporal expressions de-pend on surrounding elements in the discourse fortheir semantic ontribution to the discourse.
Inthis paper, we discuss the interaction of tempo-ral anaphora and quantification ver eventualities.Such interaction, while interesting in its own right,is also a good test-bed for theories of the semanticinterpretation of temporal expressions.
We dis-cuss cases  such  as:(1) Before John makes a phone call, he alwayslights up a cigarette.
(Partee, 1984)(2) Often, when Anne came home late, Paul hadalready prepared dinner.
(de Swart, 1991)(3) When he came home, he always witched onthe tv.
He took a beer and sat down in hisarmchair to forget the day.
(de Swart, 1991)(4) When John is at the beach, he always quintswhen the sun is shining.
(de Swart, 1991)The analysis of sentences such as (1) in (Partee,1984), within the framework of Discourse Repre-sentation Theory (DRT) (Kamp, 1981) gives thewrong truth-conditions, when the temporal con-nective in the sentence is before or after.
In DRT,such sentences trigger box-splitting with the even-tuality of the subordinate clause and an updatedreference time in the antecedent box, and theeventuality of the main clause in the consequentbox, causing undesirable universal quantificationover the reference time.This problem is analyzed in (de Swart, 1991) asan instance of the proportion problem and given asolution from a Generalized Quantifier approach.We were led to seek a solution for this problemwithin DRT, because of DRT's advantages as ageneral theory of discourse, and its choice as theunderlying formalism in another esearch projectof ours, which deals with sentences such as 1-4,in the context of natural anguage specificationsof computerized systems.
In this paper, we pro-pose such a solution, based on a careful distinctionbetween different roles of Reichenbach's referencetime (Reichenbach, 1947), adapted from (Kampand Reyle, 1993).
Figure 1 shows a 'minimal pair'of DRS's for sentence 1, one according to Par-tee's(1984) analysis and one according to ours.2 BackgroundAn analysis of the mechanism of temporalanaphoric reference hinges upon an understand-ing of the ontological and logical foundations oftemporal reference.
Different concepts have beenused in the literature as primitives.
These rangefrom temporal instants in Tense logic (Prior, 67),through intervals of time (Bennet and Partee,1978(1972)) as in the analysis of temporal con-nectives in (Hein~mKki, 1978), to event structures(Kamp, 1979) as in Hinrichs' (1986) analysis oftemporal anaphora.261el rlel Cr0  rl < elel:l  phono II~,Z r 0John(z)e2e2 ~ r lz light up I 8tnz8John(z) n C sett = lo t (e )e: Iz phone Iet ~t=:~ t ~ < t e I __ t ~e' :  \ [z  light up IFigure 1: a:Partee's analysis b:Our analysisAn important factor in the interpretation oftemporal expressions i the classification of situ-ations ihto different aspectual classes (or Aktion-sarten), which is based on distributional and se-mantic properties.
In this paper, we only considerevents and states, together termed eventualitiesin (Bach, 1981).
In narrative sequences, eventclauses eem to advance the narrative time, whilestates block its progression.
The mechanism usedto account for this phenomena in (Hinrichs, 1986)and (Partee, 1984), is based on the notion of ref-erence time, originally proposed by Reichenbach(1947).Reichenbach's well - known account of the inter-pretation of the different ense forms uses the tem-poral relations between three temporal indices:the utterance time, event t ime and reference time.The reference time according to (Reichenbach,1947) is determined either by context, or by tem-poral adverbials.2.1 St un i f ied analys is  of  tempora lanaphoraHinrichs' and Partee's use of a notion of refer-ence time, provides for a unified treatment of tem-poral anaphoric relations in discourse, which in-clude narrative progression especially in sequencesof simple past tense sentences, temporal adverbsand temporal adverbial clauses, introduced by atemporal connective.
This concept of referencetime is no longer an instant of time, but rather,an interval.
This approach can be summarizedas follows: in the processing of a discourse, thediscourse-initial sentence is argued to require somecontextually determined reference time.
Furtherevent clauses in the discourse introduce a newevent, which is included within the then-currentreference time.
Each such event also causes thereference time to be updated to a time 'just after'(Partee, 1984) this event.
State clauses introducenew states, which include the current referencetime, and do not update it.As an example of such an analysis consider thefollowing narrative discourse (Partee, 1984):(5) John got up, went to the window, and raisedthe blind.
It was light out.
He pulled the blinddown and went back to bed.
He wasn't readyto face the day.
He was too depressed.Figure 2 shows a DRS for the first two sen-tences of this discourse, according to Hinrichs' andPartee's analysis.
The 'n'  in the top DRS is amnemonic for 'now'- the utterance time.
The firstevent in the discourse, el - John's getting up - isinterpreted relative to a contextually understoodreference time, r0.
The event et is included in thecurrent reference time, r0.
A new reference timemarker, rl is then introduced, rl  lies immediatelyafter r0 (recorded as r0 _~ rl).
rl serves as the cur-rent reference time for the following event e2.
Wecontinue in this fashion, updating the referencetime, until the second sentence in the discourseis processed.
This sentence denotes a state, sl,which includes the then-current reference time.ro  e l  r l  e2 r2  e3  81ro < n el C_ ford ~_ rlrl  < he2 C r l r l  ~r2r2 < ne  3 C r2r2 C Sle l :  I John get up Je2: .
.
.Figure 2:Adverbial phrases, whether phrasal (e.g.
'OnSunday') or clausal (e.g.
'When Bill left'), are pro-cessed before the main clause.
They introduce areference time, which overrides the current refer-ence time, and provides an anaphoric antecedentfor the tense in the main clause.
This mechanismis used to explain how tense and temporal adver-bials can combine to temporally locate the occur-rence, without running into problems of relativescope (ttinrichs, 1988).
The tense morpheme ofthe main clause locates the event time with re-spect to the reference time, whereas temporal ad-verbials are used to locate the reference time.When-clauses, for example, introduce a new ref-erence time, which is ordered after the events de-scribed in the preceding discourse.
The eventual-ity in the when-clause is related to this referencetime as discussed earlier with respect o narrativeprogression: a state includes its reference time,while an event is included in it.
The eventualityin the main clause is interpreted with respect othis reference time.
If the main clause is an event-262ro@ <~ r l  < eseer2 r3<r4Figure 3:clause, this event introduces a new reference time,just after the event ime of the main clause.
As anexample, consider the following discourse (Partee,1984):(6) Mary turned the corner.
When John saw her,she crossed the street.
She hurried into astore.Following Partee (1984), we will not constructa full DRS for this discourse, but illustrate it witha diagram in Figure 3, with circles denoting inclu-sion.2.2 Quant i f icat ion over events(Partee, 1984) extends Hinrichs' treatment of tem-poral anaphora to the analysis of sentences, whichcontain a temporal adverbial and quantificatiortover eventualities.
According to her analysis,these trigger box-splitting as do if or every clausesin DRT (Kamp, 1981).
Consider the following ex-ample from (Partee, 1984):(7) Whenever Mary telephoned, Sam was asleep.nxyro I Mary(y)Sam(=)lel rlel C r0 el < nel "~ rl rl < nel: \[y telephone\]=:~81: \[81rl  c_ slz sleep \]Figure 4:The subordinate clause cannot be interpretedrelative to a single reference time, since Mary'stelephoning is not specified to occur at some spe-cific time.
Still, the sentence needs to be inter-preted relative to a reference time.
This referencetime can be a large interval, and should containeach of the relevant occurrences of Mary's tele-phoning during which Bill was asleep.
This refer-ence time is represented as r0 in the top sub-DRS.The 'whenever' triggers box-splitting.
Theevent marker - ez is introduced in the antecedentbox, with the condition that it be temporally in-cluded in the current reference time, r0 and beprior to n. The 'whenever' also causes the intro-duction of rl, a new reference time marker, rl lies'just after' el.
The stative clause causes the intro-duction of Sl, which includes the reference timerl.The embedding conditions for the whole con-struction are just like those for a regular 'if' or'every' clause, i.e.
the sentence is true, if everyproper embedding of the antecedent box can beextended to a proper embedding of the combina-tion of the antecedent and the consequent boxes.This means, as desired, that for each choice ofan event el of Mary's telephoning, and referencetime rl 'just after' it, there is a state of Sam'sbeing asleep, that surrounds rl.A sentence such as (Ta) which is the same assentence 7, except the 'whenever' is replaced by'when', and 'always'is added in the main clause,would get the same DtLS.
(Ta) When Mary telephoned, Sam was alwaysasleep.2.3 Extend ing  the  analysisAs noted in (Partee, 1984), this analysis does notextend in a straightforward manner to cases inwhich the operator when is replaced by (an un-restricted) before or after, in such quantified con-texts.
Constructing a similar DRS for such sen-tences gives the wrong truth conditions.
For ex-ample, Figure la shows a DRS for sentence 1,according to the principles above, rl - the ref-erence time, used for the interpretation of themain clause is placed in the universe of the an-tecedent box.
Because the temporal connectiveis 'before', rl is restricted to lie before el.
Theembedding conditions determine, that this refer-ence time be universally quantified over, causingan erroneous reading in which for each event, el,of John's calling, for each earlier time rl, he lightsup a cigarette.
Paraphrasing this, we could saythat John lights up cigarettes at all times preced-ing each phone call, not just once preceding eachphone call.
We did not encounter this problemin the DRS in Figure 4, since although the refer-ence time rl, is universally quantified over in thatDRS as well, it is also restricted, to immediatelyfollow el.
It is similarly restricted if 'before' is re-placed with 'just before' or 'ten minutes before'.But, (unrestricted) 'before' is analyzed as 'sometime before', and thus the problem arises.
Wewill henceforth informally refer to this problem asPartee's quantification problem.Partee (1984) suggests that in these cases wesomehow have to insure that the reference time,rz, appears in the universe of the consequent DRS,causing it to be existentially quantified over, giv-ing the desired interpretation.
De Swart (1991)notes that simply moving rl to the right-hand boxdoes not agree with Hinrichs' assumption, thattemporal clauses are processed before the mainclause, since they update the reference time, withrespect to which the main clause will be inter-263preted.
In our proposed solution, the 'referencetime' is indeed moved to the right box, but it is adifferent notion of reference time, and (as will beshown) exempt from this criticism.3 The  propor t ion  prob lemDe Swart (1991) sees Partee's quantification prob-lem as a temporal manifestation of the proportionproblem, which arises in cases such as (Kadmon,1990):(8) Most women who own a cat are happy.The sentence is false in the case where out often women, one owns 50 cats and is happy, whilethe other nine women own only one cat each, andare miserable.
This will not be predicted by theunselective binding of quantifiers in DRT, whichquantify over all the free variables in their scope,in this case women-cat pairs.
According to (deSwart, 1991) Partee's quantification problem issimilar- the universal quantifier in sentences suchas (1) binds pairs of events and updated referencetimes, where the desired quant.ificational schemeis universal quantification for the event and exis-tential for the reference time.De Swart (1991) offers a solution from a Gener-alized Quantifier approach, based on the analysisof quantified NPs in transitive sentences.
In thisanalysis, the reference time is an implicit variable,which is needed in the interpretation ofthe tempo-ral relation, but is not part of the quantificationalstructure.Temporal connectives are viewed as relations,TC, between two sets of events:(9) {< el, e2 > I < el, e2 >E TC}The quantificational structure of such sentencescan be analyzed either by an iteration of monadicquantifiers, or as a single dyadic quantifier of type< 1, 1, 2 >.
In the first approach, adverbs of quan-tification (Q-adverbs) are assigned the structure:(10) Q(S,, {e,13(S,,,TC,,)})In 10, S~ and Sm denote, respectively, the setsof events described by the subordinate and themain clause, TCe, denotes the image set of el un-der the temporal connective TC, i.e.
the set ofevents e2 which are related to el via the relationTC, (presented in 9).
In the second approach, thestructure is:(11) \[Q,3\](S,,Sm,TC)De Swart's solution does overcome Partee'squantification problem, although not within DRT.As such, the existential quantification i 11 has tobe stipulated, whereas our analysis acquires thisexistential quantification 'for free'.4 Sp l i t t ing  the  ro le  o f  re ferencet imeOur analysis of Partee's quantification problemuses a different notion of reference time than thatused by the accounts in the exposition above.
Fol-lowing (Kamp and Reyle, 1993), we split the roleof the reference time, used to account for a largearray of phenomena, into several independentmechanisms.
This separation allows for an anal-ysis in DRT of temporal subordinate clauses inquantified sentences, which avoids Partee's prob-lem altogether.
The mechanisms we discuss are:the locat ion  t ime,  Rpt  and per f  1.
DRSs willcontain temporal markers corresponding to loca-tion times and Rpts.The location time is an interval, used to tem-porally locate eventualities, in accordance withtheir aspectual classification.
Events are includedin their location time (recorded in the DRS ase C t on the respective markers), while statestemporally overlap their location time (recordedas s O t).
The verb tense determines the relationbetween the location time and the utterance timee.g.
if the tense is simple past, the location timelies anteriorly to the utterance time.
When it issimple present, the location time coincides withthe utterance time 2.
Temporal adverbials restrictthe location time: temporal adverbs introduce aDRS-condition on the location time, while tem-poral subordinate clauses introduce a relation be-tween the event time s of the subordinate clauseand the location time of the main clause.
The ex-act temporal relation denoted by a temporal con-nective depends on the aspectual classes of theeventualities related by it 4.
For example, in thefollowing sentence 12, the event triggers the intro-duction of an event marker e, and location timemarker t, into the DRS with the DRS-conditione c_ t. The past tense of the verb adds the con-dition t < n. In sentence 13, the location time ofthe event in the main clause is restricted to fall(just) after the event time of the event of the sub-ordinate clause.
(12) Mary wrote the letter.
(13) Mary wrote the letter when Bill left.1An additional mechanism is the TPpt ,  which forsimplicity's ake will not be discussed in this paper.~Since the utterance time, n is a point in (Kampand Reyle, 1993), the overlap relation between astatethat holds in the present and n reduces to inclusion.3The event ime t of an eventuality e is the smallestinterval which includes e (recorded as t = loc(e)).4For the sake of the current presentation, we as-sume the following relations for When: if both thewhen-clause and the main clause denote states, thentheir respective time indices overlap.
If both areevents then the times are temporally close, with theexact relation undetermined.
When one is a state andone an event, then the time index of the state includesthat of the event cf.
(Hinrichs, 1986).264Narrative progression is dealt with by using thefeature Rpt (or reference point).
The Rpt canbe either an event or a time discourse marker, al-ready present in the DRS (recorded as assignmentRpt := e).
Eventualities are interpreted with re-spect to the Rpt - events are taken to follow thecurrent Rpt, while states include it.
The Rpt isreset during the processing of the discourse.
Notethat in a 'terminal' DRS (ready for an embeddingtest), all the auxiliary Rpts 'disappear' (do notparticipate in the embedding).The perfect is analyzed by using the notion of anucleus (Moens and Steedman, 1988) to accountfor the inner structure of an eventuality.
A nucleusis defined as a structure containing a preparatoryprocess, culmination and consequent state.
Thecategorization of verb phrases into different as-pectual classes can be phrased in terms of whichpart of the nucleus they refer to.
The perfect isseen in (Kamp and Reyle, 1993) as an aspectualoperator.
The eventualities described by the per-fect of a verb refer to the consequent state of itsnucleus.
For example, the following sentence 14denotes the state, s, holding at the present, thatMary has met the president.
This state is a resultof the event e, in which Mary met the president.
"Temporally, the state s starts just when e ends,or as it is put in (Kamp and Reyle, 1993):e and sabut, (represented as e DCs).
(14) Mary has met the president.5 An al ternat ive solut ionBy extending the analysis of temporal subordinateclauses in (Kamp and Reyle, 1993), to sentenceswhich include quantification over eventualities, wecan propose an alternative DRT solution to Par-tee's quantification problem.
As in (Partee, 1984),such sentences trigger box-splitting.
But now, thelocation time of the eventuality in the subordi-nate clause serves as the antecedent for the loca-tion time of the eventuality in the main clause.In this approach, each of the relevant emporalmarkers resides in its appropriate box, yieldingthe correct quantificational structure.
This quan-tification structure does not need to be stipulatedas part of the Q-adverb's meaning, but arises di-rectly from the temporal system.
We illustratethis analysis by constructing a DRS in Figure lbfor sentence 1.In this DRS, n denotes the utterance time.
Thesubordinate clause triggers the introduction of anevent marker, e, with its event time marker t.The main clause triggers the introduction of anevent marker e ~, and its location time marker t~,with the DRS-condition e' C t ~.
The assymetry inusing the event time for e and the location timefor e ~ arises from the interpretation rules of tem-poral connectives (for both quantified and non-quantified sentences).
Since the temporal connec-tire in this sentence is before, the relation betweenthese two markers is one of precedence.We adopt a suggestion by Chierchia in (Partee,1984), that the whole implication be rendered asa state.
This state is no longer an atomic eventu-ality.
It is a complex state denoting John's habit.This state holds during the present, and so its lo-cation time is n.This solution is not prone to de Swart's (1991)criticism against he naive solution of moving thereference time to the right DRS.
The temporalclause may be processed before the main clause,since t', the location time of e', which 'replaces'rl, the reference time of Partee's analysis, as thetemporal index of the eventuality in the the mainclause, arises from processing the main clause (notupdating the reference time of the subordinateclause).6 Additional phenomenaIn this section we present some applications of ouranalysis to related constructions.
First, we con-sider the past perfect, as in sentence 2.
De Swart(1991) gives this example to illustrate the inabilityto interpret emporal connectives without he useof the reference times.
According to (de Swart,1991), the subordinate clause determines the ref-erence time of the verb, which lies anteriorly to theevent time.
Trying to use the event times wouldgive the wrong analysis.
This would seem to betroublesome for our approach, which uses the loca-tion time of the event in the main clause, and notits reference time.
However, this is not a problem,since our analysis of the perfect by the use of theoperator perf, analyses the eventuality referred toby the main clause, as the result state of a previ-ous event.
The temporal relation in the sentenceis inclusion between the event ime of Anne's com-ing home, and the location time of the result stateof Paul's already having prepared inner.Next, we consider narrative progression inquantified contexts, as in sentence 3.
The basicconstruction is just the same as in the paradigmstructure, but now we have narrative progressionin the consequent box.
This narrative progres-sion is handled as ordinary narrative progressionin (Kamp and Reyle, 1993), i.e.
by resetting theRpt.
The DRS in Figure 5 describes the complexstate sl, that after each event of John's cominghome, there is a sequence of subsequent eventsaccording to his activities.Finally, we deal with sentences uch as (4),which contain an iteration of an implicit genericquantifier and always.
The situation described byJohn's always quinting when the sun is shining isanalyzed as a complex state s3.
This state holdswhenever John is at the beach, recorded by thecondition that the location time t~ of sa overlapsthe event time, tl of John's being at the beach, s2in Figure 6.265Sl:S2 tlloc(s~) = t ls2:\[ z is at the beach \[aohn(z)=?,83nzys lthe sun(y) n C slszt2sa Ot~t~ Or1t3 84loc(s4)=t3s4: y is shiningelt4el _C t4t4 C t3el:\[ z squintFigure 6:nXS l t ls lOt1 Q <n$1el t2el:l x c.n.
Ie2 e3 e4 t3 t4 t5e2 Ctz t2  <t3e2:\[z sw. on t~Rpt := e~ea C t4 e2 < eaca: Ix take beer IRpt := e3e4 C t4 ez < e4e4: ...Figure 5:7 AcknowledgmentsThe work of the second author was partially sup-ported by a grant from the Israeli ministry of sci-ence "Programming languages induced computa-tional linguistics", and by the fund for the pro-motion of research in the Technion.
The authorswould like to thank Nirit Kadmon and Uwe Reylefor reading a preliminary version of this paper.ReferencesEmmon Bach.
1981.
On time, tense and aspect.An essay in English metaphysics, in Peter Cole(ed.
), Radical Pragmatics Academic Press, NewYork 63-81.Michael Bennet and Barbara Partee.
1978(1972).Toward the Logic of Tense and Aspect in En-glish ms. Reproduced by the Indiana UniversityLinguistics ClubOrvokki ttein,imgki.
1978.
Semantics of Englishtemporal connectives.
Bloomington: IndianaUniversity Linguistics Club.Erhard W. Hinrichs.
1986.
Temporal anaphora indiscourses of English.
Linguistics and Philoso-phy 9:63-82.Erhard W. IIinrichs.
1988.
Tense, quantifiers andcontexts.
Computational Linguistics volume 14,number 2, pages 3-14.Nirit Kadmon.
1990.
Uniqueness Linguistics andPhilosophy 13:273-324Hans Kamp.
1979.
Events, instants and temporalreference.
In R. Baiierle, U. Egli and A. yonStechow (eds.)
Semantics from different pointsof view Springer Verlag, Berlin.Hans Kamp.
1981.
A theory of Truth and Se-mantic Representation i J. Groenendijk, TH.Janssen and M.
Stokhof(eds.)
Formal Methodsin the Study of Language, Part I. Mathema-tisch Centrum, Amsterdam.
pages 277-322Hans Kamp and Uwe Reyle 1993.
From Dis-course to Logic Introduction to ModeltheoreticSemantics of Natural Language, Formal Logicand Discourse Representation Theory.
KluwerAcademic Publishers, Dordrecht.Marc Moens and Mark Steedman 1988.
Tempo-ral Ontology and Temporal Reference Compu-tational Linguistics 14 15-28.Barbara II.
Partee.
1973.
Some structural analo-gies between tenses and pronouns in English.Journal of Philosophy LXX 601-609Barbara If.
Partee.
1984.
Nominal and TemporalAnaphora Linguistics and Philosophy 7.3 (243-286)Arthur Prior.
1967.
Past, Present and Future.Oxford University Press, OxfordHans Reichenbach.
1947.
Elements of SymbolicLogic.
Reprinted in 1966 by The Free Press,New York.ttenri~tte de Swart.
1991.
Adverbs of Quantifica-tion: a Generalized Quantifier Approach, diss.University of Groningen.
Published (1993) byGarland, New York.266
