The Semantics of Mot ionPierre Sab layro l lesI R I T - -  Universit~ Paul Sabatier118 route de Narbonne31062 Toulouse - Francephone : +33 61 55 67 64fax : +33 61 55 83 25e-mail : sablay@irit.frAbstractIn this paper we present a semanticstudy of motion complexes (ie.
of a mo-tion verb followed by a spatial preposi-tion).
We focus on the spatial and thetemporal intrinsic semantic properties ofthe motion verbs, on the one hand, andof the spatial prepositions, on the otherhand.
Then we address the problem ofcombining these basic semantics in or-der to formally and automatically de-rive the spatiotemporal semantics of amotion complex from the spatiotempo-ral properties of its components.1 IntroductionMost of natural languages provide two types oflexical items to describe the motion of an entitywith respect o some location: mot ion  verbs  (torun; to enter) and spat ia l  p repos i t ions  (from;towards).
Motion verbs can be used directly witha location, when they are transitive (to cross thetown) or with a spatial preposition, when they areintransitive (to go through the town).
The lattercase is more interesting: most of the French mo-tion verbs are intransitive and the interaction be-tween motion verbs and spatial prepositions givesdetailed informations about the way human bee-ings mentally represent spatiotemporal spects ofa motion.
When we describe a motion, the factto choose a verb instead of another, a prepositioninstead of another, a syntactic structure insteadof another, reveals our mental cognitive represen-tation.
We claim that natural languages can beconsidered as a trace of these representations, inwhich it is possible, with systematic and detailledlinguistic studies, to light up the way spatiotem-poral properties are represented and on which ba-sic concepts these representations lie.
We presentsuch linguistic investigations on French motionverbs and spatial prepositions and the basic con-cepts we have found.
We also address composi-tional semantics for motion complexes (ie.
a mo-tion verb followed by a spatial preposition) andshow that the complexity and the refinements ofthe linguistic studies presented just before are jus-tified and required at the compositional level inorder to capture the different behaviours in thecompositional processes that exist with the Frenchlanguage.
We also compare with the English lan-guage and draw some conclusions on the benefitsof our approach.2 Lexical Semantics for MotionVerbsFollowing Gruber (1965), Jackendoff (1976),Boons (1985), we approach motion verbs in termsof some "localist semantical" role labels.
The lin-guistic study of French intransitive motion verbs(see eg.
(Asher & Sablayrolles, 1994a)) we haverealized has allowed the definition of an ontologyfor "location" in three basic concepts:?
locat ions  which are concrete places (a room;a house; a street);?
pos i t ions  which are parts of a location (theposition where I am in this room);?
pos tures  which are ways to be in a position(to be standing, sitting, lying).With the help of this ontology we have realizeda typology for intransitive motion verbs.
We dis-tinguish 4 categories on the basis of which kind of"location" they intrinsically refer to.?
Change of  locat ion  (COL) verbs (ent rer -to enter; sor t i r - to  go out) denote a changeof location.
When we enter some place or goout of some place, we have different spatialrelation with the location (ie.
inside/outside)before and after the n~otion.?
Change of  pos i t ion  verbs (voyager - totravel; cour i r - to  run) denote a change of po-sition.
When we travel or run, we go fromsome part to another part of a same globallocation.
Such verbs do not behave all homo-geneously.- Some denote a change of position whichalways occur (voyager-to trave D. For281example, we cannot say voyager surp lace- to  travel in place.
We call theseverbs change of  pos i t ion  (CoPs)verbs.- Others denote only possible change ofposition (cour i r - to  run).
For example,we can say cour i r  sur p lace- to  runin place.
We call these verbs iner t ia lchange of  pos i t ion  ( ICoPs)  verbs.?
Change of  posture  (CoPtu)  verbs( s 'asseo i r - to  sit down; se ba isser - tobend down).
They denote a change of therelations between the parts of an entity.For the following, we will focus on CoL verbs(the Change of Location verbs), mainly becausethey are rich in spatiotemporal informations, butalso because we have at disposal exhaustive listsof French CoL verbs.
We have realized a system-atic and fine linguistic study on these verbs, look-ing carefully at each of them, one by one (and wehave 440 CoL verbs in French), in order to extracttheir intrinsic spatiotemporal properties.
Thesesemantic properties can be characterized by a re-structuration of the space induced by the so-calledre fe rence  locat ion  ( l ref)  (cf.
(Talmy, 1983)).This lref, implicitly suggested by each CoL verb,can be either the initial location (as with par t i r -to leave; sor t i r - t0  go out), or the path (passer ,t raverser - to  pass through) or the final location(a r r iver - to  arrive; ent rer - to  enter) of the mo-tion.
Indeed, verbs like sor t i r  intrinsically sug-gest a location of which we have gone out.
Thisspace, induced by the lref, is characterized by mostof the authors in the literature by a two-part spa-tial system consisting in the inside and the outsideof the lref.
We propose to refine this structurewith two new concepts, required to distinguishminimal pairs like sor t i r  (to go out)/partir (toleave), and entr r (to ent r)/atterir (to land).These concepts are:1. a limit of proximity distinguishing an outsideof proximity from a far away outside; indeed,if so r t i r  simply requires to go out of the lref,par t i r  in addition forces the mobile to gosufficiently far away from that lref.2.
an external zone of contact required by verbslike a t ter i r  for which the final location isneither the lref (in contrast with ent rer )  orthe outside (or proximity outside) of the lref(in contrast with s 'approcher -~o approach).We have so defined a structuration of the spacebased on 4 zones :* the inside;o the externa l  zone of  contact ;o the outs ide  o f  p rox imi ty ;o the far  away outs ide .This structuration is close to the way J ackendoffand Landau (1992) encode the space induced bythe reference object introduced by a static spatialpreposition.
As we have come to these distinctionsby examining different linguistic material, we con-clude that language structures pace in the sameway whatever sort of lexical items (motion verbs(dynamic)/(static) spatial prepositions) we exam-ine.
This has allowed us to classify CoL verbs into10 classes on the basis of which zones the mobileis inside, at the beginning and at the end of itsmotion.
Note that all the geometrical possibilitiesare not lexicalized in French.3 Lexical Semantics for SpatialPrepositionsWe have followed the same approach with Frenchspatial prepositions, but using a structuration ofthe space induced by the location introduced inthe PP by the preposition, and not induced by thelref as for verbs.
Following Laur (1993), we con-sider simple prepositions (like in) as well as prepo-sitional phrases (like in front o\]).
We have classi-fied 199 such French prepositions into 16 groupsusing in addition of our zones two other criteria:?
prepositions can be:- positional (like in)- directional (like into)?
directional prepositions can be:- Initial (like from)- Medial (like through)- Final (like to)depending if they focus on the initial location,on the path or on the final location of themotion.4 Compositional Semantics forMotion ComplexesThe linguistic studies, used for the typologies ofCoL verbs and spatial prepositions, have been re-alized on verbs considered without any adjuncts,in their atemporal form and independently of anycontext, on the one hand, and on prepositionsconsidered independently of any context, on theother.
This methodology, discussed in Borillo &Sablayrolles (1993), has allowed us to extract heintrinsic semantics of these lexical items.Since natural anguages put together verbs andprepositions in a sentence, we have developpeda formal calculus (see (Asher & Sablayrolles,1994b)), based on these two typologies, whichcomputes, in a compositional way, the spatiotem-poral properties of a motion complex from the se-mantic properties of the verb and of the prepo-sition.
For reason of space we cannot detail ourformalism here, but we intend to present it in thetalk.282The semantics of a motion complex is notthe simple addition of the semantics of its con-stituents.
On the contrary, it is the result of acomplex interaction between these properties.
Itis often the case that from this interaction appearnew properties that belong neither to the verb orthe preposition.
These new properties are onlythe result of the interaction of the verb with thepreposition.Let us consider for example the following VP:sor t i r  dans le  jard in-to go out into the gar-den.
The verb sor t i r - to  go out implicitly sug-gests an initial location; the preposition darts-(which means in, but which is translated here byinto) is a positional preposition and, as so, onlydenotes the static spatial relation inside.
The lo-cation le jardin-the garden is the final locationof the motion.
This final information was con-tained neither in the verb or in the preposition.This information is the result of the interactionof the verb sor t i r - to  go out with the prepositiondans-in/qnto.Note that the combination for such items doesnot behave the same in English, where the finalinformation is explicitly brought by the preposi-tion into, which is a directional preposition, andwhere this particular combination does not createnew information.This shows the neccesity to take into accountsuch language specific behaviour in natural an-guages understanding systems and in natural lan-guages machine translation.
We formalize with11 axioms in a non-monotonic f rst order logic thebehaviour of all possible kinds of verb-prepositionassociation for the French language.
We use non-monotonic logic in order to represent defensible orgeneric rules and also in order to encode defaultsabout lexical entries.These axioms are based on the lexieal semanticsof CoL verbs and of spatial prepositions.
Theyalso take into account he syntactic structure ofthe sentence (we have supposed an X-bar syntaxwith a VP internal subject, though this is not es-sential) and the links which exist at the level ofdiseours between this sentence and the previousand following sentences of the text.
These links,called discourse relations, are basic concepts onwhich texts are structured (cf.
(Asher, 1993)).5 Conc lus ionThe study and the first results we have here pre-sented cover from lexical semantics to discoursestructures, with strong interactions between thesetwo ends.
Indeed, lexical informations can be usedto disambiguate he structure of the discours, aswell as discourse relations can be used to dis-ambiguate l xical entries, as shown in (Asher &Sablayrolles, 1994b).
Our work is based on sys-tematic and very detailed linguistic studies whichlead to rather complex computations for calculat-ing the spatiotemporal semantics ofa motion com-plex.
But we have seen that this level of detail andcomplexity is necessary if one want to understand,to formalize and to compute a right spatiotempo-ral semantics for motion complexes.
We continueour investigations ontwo directions:1. we compare our results with similar worksin course of realization on the Basquian lan-guage (by Michel Aurnague) and on theJapanese language (by Junichi Saito);2. we use the results presented here for refin-ing the notions of the Aktionsart, where thestructuration of the space in 4 zones can beused to distinguish sub-classes inside the tra-ditional well known classes of aspectual stud-ies.ReferencesNicholas Asher and Pierre Sablayrolles.1994a.
A Compositional Spatio-temporal Seman-tics for French Motion Verbs and Spatial PPs.Proceedings of SALT~, Semantics and LinguisticTheory, Rochester, NY, May 6-8, 1994.Nicho las  Asher  and Pierre Sablayrolles.1994b.
A Typology and Discourse Semantics forMotion Verbs and Spatial PPs in French.
Journalof Semantics, in press, 1994.Nicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to AbstractObjects in Discourse.
Kluwer Academic Publish-ers, 1993.Jean Paul Boons.
1985.
Pr@liminaires ~ laclassification des verbes locatifs : les compl@mentsde lieu, leurs crit~res, leurs valeurs aspectuelles.Linguisticae Investigationes, 9(2):195-267, 1985.Mario Borillo and Pierre Sablayrolles.1993.
The Semantics of Motion Verbs in French.Proceedings of the 13th International Conferenceon Natural Language Processing of Avignon, May24-28, 1993, Avignon, France.J.S.
Gruber.
1965.
Studies in Lexical Rela-tions.
Doctoral Dissertation, MIT, 1965.Ray Jackendoff.
1976.
Towards an Explana-tory Semantic Representation.
Linguistic Inquiry,7:89-150.Ray Jackendoff  and Barbara Landau.1992.
"What" and "Where" in Spatial Languageand Spatial Cognition.
BBS report, CambridgeUniversity Press, 1992.Dany Laur.
1993.
La relation entre le verbe etla pr@position dans la s~mantique du d@placement.Language, La couleur des prdpositions:47-67, June1993.Leonard Talmy.
1983.
How Language Struc-tures Space.
Spatial Orientation: theory, researchand application, Pick and Acredolo (eds), Plenumpub.
corporation, NY, 1983.283
