Automat ic  P rocess ingo f  P roper  Names  in  TextsFrancis Wolinski I 2 Frantz Vichot I Bruno Dil let 11 Informatique CDC 2 LAFORIACaisse des D@6ts et Consignations Universit~ de Paris VIFrance FranceE-mail: { wolinski,vichot,dillet } @icdc.frAbst rac tThis paper shows first the problems raised by propernames in natural anguage processing.
Second, it in-troduces the knowledge representation structure weuse based on conceptual graphs.
Then it explainsthe techniques which are used to process known andunknown proper names.
At last, it gives the perfor-mance of the system and the further works we intendto deal with.or unknown.
Some of these techniques are takenout of existing systems but they have been uni-fied and completed in constructing this single oper-ational module.
Besides some innovative techniquesfor desambiguating known proper names using thecontext have been implemented.2 Prob lems ra i sed  by  propernames  in  NLP1 In t roduct ionThe Exoseme system \[6, 7\] is an operational applica-tion which continuously analyses the economic flowfrom Agence France Presse (AFP).
AFP, which cov-ers the current economic life of the major industri-alised countries, transmits on average 400 dispatchesper day on this flow.
Their content is drafted inFrench in a journalistic style.
Using this flow, Ex-oseme feeds various users concerning precise andvaried subjects, for example, rating announcements,company results, acquisitions, sectors of activity, ob-servation of competition, partners or clients, etc.
50such themes have currently been developed.
Theyrely on precise filtering of dispatches with highlight-ing of sentences for fast reading.Exoseme is composed of several modules : a mor-phological analyser, a proper name module, a syn-tactical analyser, a semantic analyser and a filteringmodule.
The proper name module has two goals :segmenting and categorising proper names.
Duringthe whole processing of a dispatch, the proper namemodule is involved in three different steps.
First,it segments proper names during the morphologicalanalysis.
Second, it categorises proper names dur-ing the semantic analysis.
Third, it is invoked bythe filtering module to supply some more informa-tion needed for routing the dispatch.The proper name module is based on differenttechniques which are used to detect and categoriseproper names depending on whether they are knownIn the AFP flow, proper names constitute a signif-icant part of the text.
They account for approxi-mately one third of noun groups and half the wordsused in proper names do not belong to the Frenchvocabulary (e.g.
family names, names of locations,foreign words).
In addition, the number of wordsused in constructing proper names is potentially in-finite.The first step of the processing is segmentation,i.e.
accurate cutting-up of proper names in the text;the second step is categorisation, i.e.
the attributionto each proper name of a conceptual category (indi-vidual, company, location, etc.).
It should be notedthat segmentation and categorisation are processeddifferently depending on whether the proper nameis known or unknown.2.1 Segmentat ion of proper namesThe segmentation of proper names enables thesynctactical analyser to be relieved, particularlyin the case of long proper names which containgrammatical markers (e.g.
prepositions, conjunc-tions, commas, full stops).
As illustrated in \[4\],segmentation firstly prevents long proper namesfrom undertaking pointless analyses.
For exam-ple, for Caisse de ?r6dit hgricole du Morbihan theanalyser will provide two interpretations depend-ing on whether Morbiha.n is attached to Cr6dithgricole or to Caisse.
Moreover, proper names of-ten constitute agrammatical segments that some-times confuse the synctactical analyser.
For exam-23ple, in the  sentence  The d i rec tor  of Do l l fus ,  Miegand Cie has  announced pos i t ive  resu l t s ,  the anal-yser has difficulties in finding that The d i rector  isthe subject of announce if it does not know thecompany Dollfus, Mieg and Cie.
In the Exosemeprocess, the Sylex syntactical analyser \[3\] delegatesthe segmentation of these agrammatical gaps to ourproper name module.Segmentation of known proper names has al-ready been studied and is treated in some systemssuch as NameFinder \[5\]; segmentation of unknownproper na,nes based on pattern matching is imple-mented in several systems \[1, 2, 4, 9\]; the morpho-logical matching of acronyms is described in \[11\].2.2 Categorisation of proper namesOnce the segmentation has been achieved, categori-sation of proper names is necessary for the seman-tic analyse> Categorisation maps proper namesinto a set of concepts (e.g.
human being, company,location).
The very nature of proper names con-tributes widely to the understandin.g of texts.
Thesemantic analyser must be able to use the variouscategories of proper names as semantic onstraintswhich are complementary for the understanding oftexts.
For example, in the filtering theme of acqui-sitions, the sentence Express  group in tends  to  se l lLe Po in t  fo r  700 MF indicates a sale of interests inthe newspaper Le Point.
Whereas the following sen-tence, which is grammatical ly identical to the pre-ceding one, Compagn ie  des  S ignaux  in tends  to  se l lTVM430 for 700 MF indicates only a price for anindustrial product.Categorisation of unknown proper names has al-ready been studied as well.
Particularly, categori-sation of unknown proper names is automaticallyacquired in pattern matching techniques quoted inprevious section; rules using the context of propernames in order to categorise them are also imple-mented in \[2, 9\].In our system, these ontological categories areextended to attributes needed by the semantic anal-yser or the filtering module.
For instance, propernames may have different attributes such as city,rating agencies, sector of activity, market, financialindexes, etc.3 Representat ion  o f  p ropernamesWe will see that the proper name module requiresa large amount of information concerning propernames, their forms, their categories, their attributes,the words of which they are composed, etc.
This in-formation must be able to be enriched in order toinclude additional processes, and accessible in orderto be shared by several processes.
We use a repre-sentation system similar to conceptual graphs \[10\],the flexibility of which effectively gives expressive-ness, reusability and the possibility of further devel-opment.
It enables indispensable and heterogeneousdata to be memorised and used in order to processproper names.For a given proper name, its category and its var-ious attributes are directly represented in the formof a conceptual graph.
For example, our knowledgebase contains the graphs of Figure 1.
This simplerepresentation will be completed in the subsequentsections.
We are going to show how each encoun-tered problem uses the information of tile knowledgebase and may add its own information to it.The final result is a large knowledge base in-cluding 8,000 proper names sharing 10,000 fornas,based on 11,000 words.
There are also 90 at-tributes of proper names or words.
Each new filter-ing theme may be a special case and its implemen-tation may lead to introduce additional attributesinto the knowledge base.
The adopted representa-tional formalism enables these additions to be madewithout leading to substantial modifications of itsstructure.4 Process ing  known propernamesFirstly, we recognise the proper names in which weare directly interested in order to allocate to themattributes which are required for subsequent pro-cesses.
We also seek to recognise the most frequentproper names (e.g.
country, cities, regions, states-men) in order to segment hem and categorise themcorrectly.4.1 Immediate recognitionThe first idea which comes to mind is to memorisethe proper names as they are encountered in thedispatches and to allocate to them the attributes.All this information is stored in the knowledge basewhich contains, for example :? '
'New' ' + ' 'York '  ' --* PN -~ locat ion?
'~Soc i4 t4 ' '  + ~G4n4ra le ' '  --+ PN- -+ bank?
'~Standard ' '  + ~and '~ + ' ' Poor ' s  ~ ' --~ PN--+ ra t ing  agencyThe knowledge base is thus structured on themodel showed in Figure 2.
And subsequently, recog-nition of the proper name in the text occurs throughsimple pattern matching.24I PN 'Paris' I I PN 'City of Saint-Louis' I PN 'Group Saint-Louis' 1Figure 1: Representation f Proper NamesI PN 'Eridiana Beghin Say' \]\[ oompa~y I I,oo~io~lFigure 2: Words composing Proper Names1 1"Boris" ~followed_by)-~-~l-"Eltsine"I PN 'Boris Eltsine' 1Figure 3: Equivalent Words254.2 "Equ iva lent"  wordsHowever, words lnaking up proper names accept.many slippages which result from abbreviat, ions,translation, common faults, etc.
For example :?
S tandard  and  Poor ' s  :S tandard  and  Poors ,  S tandard  e t  Poor ' s?
Soc i~t~ G~n~rale :Soc.
gen., St~ g~n~rale?
Boris Elts ine :Boris Elstine, Boris Etlsine, Boris Yelts ineIn order to avoid listing pointlessly all the formsthat a proper name can take, through slippages of itswords, certain variations in the recorded form are au-thorised.
To this end, slippages in a given word aregrouped around an "equivalent".
This technique,which has been developed in the NameFinder sys-tem \[5\], under the term "alternative" words, enablesto make a correspondence with different forms likelyto appear.Equivalent words are expressed in the knowledgebase through a relationship.
For example, our basecontains the graph of Figure 3.4.3 Synonymous proper namesHowever, one can use very different proper namesto designate a given reality.
For example, we canfind simple synonyms uch as Hexagone for Franceor Rue d'Antin for Paribas.
This notion is similarto alternative names in \[5\].
Dispatches also containmore or less complex transformations, that it canbe difficult to derive from the standard form, suchas  NewYork and  NY for  New York,  or  indeed  SetP  andS -Poors  for Standard  and  Poor ' s .Once again, in order to avoid listing pointlesslythe attributes for all the necessary proper names,the forms of synonymous proper names are groupedaround a single reference to which the various at-tributes are allocated.
This grouping enables thevarious references memorised to be represented, andtheir attributes to be factorised.
The knowledgebase is modified according to the enriched modelshowed in Figure 4.4.4 Disambiguat ing proper namesWhen a user is interested in a given proper name, itis not sufficient o look for it through the dispatchessince a simple selection on this name frequently pro-duces homonyms.
Such interference, which is annoy-ing for users, reflects the limitations of traditionalkeyword systems.
In the AFP flow, for example, theform Saint-Louis may designate qually well:?
the capital of Missouri,?
a french group in the food production industry,?
les Cristalleries de Saint Louis,?
a small town in Bas-Rhin province,?
an hospital in Paris,The crucial problem posed is to succeed in dis-ambiguating this type of forms.
Or, in other words,in determining, or at least in delimiting, the denotedreference.4.4.1 Disambiguating through the local con-textExploration of the local context using the propername can in certain cases enable a choice to be madebetween these various references.
If the text speaksof St-Louis (M issour i ) ,  only the first interpretationwill be adopted, if the knowledge base contains theinformation that Saint-Louis is in the United States,and if a rule is able to interpret the affixing of aparenthesis.
We are currently working on this del-icate aspect in order to unify all the rules we haveaccumulated for resolving concrete cases.
We areaware that these types of inference are comparableto the micro-theories of the Cyc project \[8\] in whichthe need for a great amount of information is themain thesis.We will see in section 5.2.1 that the local con-text may categorise an unknown proper name andtherefore it may help to desambiguate an ambigu-ous known proper name.
For instance, if the textspeaks of the mayor of St -Lou is ,  the company andhospital can certainly be ruled out.4.4.2 Disambiguating through the globalcontextAbbreviations of proper names are another, muchmore frequent, source of ambiguities.
Dependingon the context, la G6n6rale may designate Soci~t~G4n4rale, Compagnie G4n~rale des Eaux or indeedG4n~rale de Sucri~re.
Similarly, acronyms, whichare almost always common to several proper names,constitute an extreme form of abbreviation.
We thusdiscover from time to time new organisations whichshare the acronym CDC with Caisse des D~p6ts  e tConsignat ion.In general, ambiguous forms are not used on theirown in dispatches, and other non-ambiguous formsappear.
Their presence consequently enables theambiguity to be removed.
If the proper names SaintLouis and H6pital Saint Louis appear in a singledispatch, for example, the reference correspondingto the hospital will have more forms than each ofthe others and will thus be the only one adopted.26Consequently, when there is an interest in anindividual reference and the corpus has revealedhomonyms, we record them in the knowledge base.We link them with the individual reference in orderto be able to manage the ambiguities.Nevertheless, when the ambiguity is unable tobe removed, we choose the most frequent interpre-tation, but the user is told of the doubtful natureof our choice.
In the dispatch title "Saint Louis:resu l t s  up", for example, the proper name SaintLouis is processed as the food production group,which is the most frequent ease, although it couldequally well designate les Cr i s ta l le r ies .5 Process ing  unknown propernamesThe preceding techniques tackled the problem of thevariability of known proper names.
However, al-though many proper names appear frequently, oth-ers appear only once.
Even if the constituted knowl-edge base is very comprehensive, it is absolutely'im-possible to record all potential proper names.
Wehave therefore to deal with unknown proper names.5.1 Prototypes of proper  namesAs fully explained in \[2\], some proper names are con-structed according to prototypes which enable themto be categorised through their appearance alone.For example :?
known-first-name + unknown-upcase-word --*human being (e.g.
Andr4 Blavier)?
unknown-upcase-word + company-legal-form--+ company (e.g.
KyoceraCorp)unknown-upcase-word + ~'-sur-'' +unknown-upcase-word--+location(e.g.
Cond&sur-Huisne)Furthermore, certain categories of proper namesaccept raditional extensions which it is also possibleto detect.
For example :?
known-human-being + human-title --+human being (e.g.
Kennedy Jr)?
known-company + company-activity--+ company(e.g.
Honda Motor)known-company + ' ' - '  ' + known- locat ion  , --+company (e.g.
IBM-France)?
known-human-being + company-activity -~company (e.g.
Bernard Tapie Finance)Lastly, such extensions may be combined,e.g, "Siam Nissan Automobile Co Ltd" is probably asubsidiary of Nissan.These prototypes enable bot\]~ to segment andcategorise proper names.
Of course, they do notconstitute infallible rules (for example, Guy Larocheis a company while its prototype makes one believeit is a human being) but they give correct results ina large majority of cases.In order to use these prototypes, we build arulebase for detecting and extending proper names.Moreover, we add some attributes to the existingwords in our knowledge base (e.g.
first names, legalcompany forms, company activities).
For example,it contains the graph of Figure 5.5.2 Other techniques of categorisa-tionNevertheless, a prototype is not always enough tocategorise a proper name.
In particular, an isolatedproper name does not enable one to infer its categorydirectly.
For example, who can say simply on sightof the proper name that Peskine is an individual,Fibaly a company and Gisenyi a town ?5.2.1 Categor i sa t ion  through the  loca l  con-textHowever, the text often contains elements enablingone to deduce the category of a proper name \[2\].To this end, rules using the local context give goodresults.
For example :,, apposition of an individual's position :Peskine, d i rector  of the  group,* name complement typical of a company :the shareholders of Fibaly?
name complement typical of a location :the  mayor of  Gisenyi.These rules once again require that certain wordsfrom the knowledge base are marked by individualattributes.
For example, the word "mayor" has boththe following attributes :?
human-being-apposition :(e.g.
Chirac, mayor  of the town)?
location-name-complement :(e.g.
the mayor of Royan)27i "soc,ete" I--'-~-'-I"Geoera,e" II"Socie'~eoe,a'o" I I "SocGen" IcompanyFigure 4: Synonymous Proper Names- -~  t,,Thomsoo,,1--~I "IBM C'~  ~ ~~,Ref  '~~romson'JFigure 5: Words and Proper Names Attributes285.2.2 Categor i sa t ion  through the global  con-textHowever, the local context of a proper name does notnecessarily enable one to infer its category.
For in-stance, the mere radical of a proper name (e.g.
fam-ily name, main company) is often used later in thetext instead of the full name.
The company KyoceraCorp, for example, may be designated by the singleword Kyocera in the remainder of the text.Consequently, for each unknown proper name,we look to see whether it does not appear in anotherproper name in the text.
In this case, we estab-lish a link between these two proper names in orderto transfer the attributes of the recognised propername to this new proper name.
However, one shouldalways beware since different proper names some-times share the same radical : Mr Mitterand and MrsMitterand, or again Mr Bollor4 and Bollor6 Group.Although, in the most frequent cases, we resolve thiswell-known problem but as in \[11\] we do not have ageneral solution.5.3 Matching acronymsAcronyms occur frequently in AFP dispaches.
Onone hand, the linguistical construction of the cor-responding text of acronyms may be relatively com-plex.
On the other hand, in some case, the relativelysimple morphological construction of acronyms maybe treated with a simple pattern matching withthe corresponding text.
Moreover, acronyms arewidespread ambiguous forms of which it is unthink-able to list all cases and we have seen in section4.4.2 that desambiguation f proper names neededto memorize all potential homonyms.
Therefore,a process for dealing with acronyms will first seg-ment these unknown proper names and second de-sambiguate these potential homonylns.In general, when an acronym is introduced in atext, its complete form is given using parentheses.For example :?
International Primary Aluminium Institute(IPAI)?
AIEA (Agence Internationale de i' EnergieAtomique)?
Centre de recherche, d'~tudes et dedocumentation en 4conomie de la sant~(CREDES)As observed in \[11\], it is possible to explore thelocal structure of the parentheses in order to de-termine whether the acronym corresponds to thecomplete form and, if so, the acronym and the fullname are propagated throughout the remainder ofthe text.
Some words (e.g.
articles, prepositions)may be jumped when matching up acronyms andtext.
For example, the acronym SHF of Soci6t4 desBourses Fran~aises  omits  the preposit ion "des",while the acronym BDF of Banque de France keeps the"de".
In order for our processing module to recog-nise these words, we allocate a special attribute tothem in the knowledge base.This simple and effective technique nables mostof the acronyms introduced to be processed cor-rectly.
Only foreign acronyms accompanied by theirtranslation are not processed.6 Resul ts  and prospectsBuilt for an operationnal system which filters in realtime AFP dispatches, we have presented the mod-ule for the automatic processing of proper names.This module unifies and completes known techniqueswhich enable to segment and categorise propernames.
Particularly, we have explained our inno-vative technique for disambiguating known propernames and its relationship with the techniques forcategorising unknown proper names and for match-ing acronyms.
Our system currently detects 90%of proper names in AFP dispatches and categorises85% of them correctly.
The full Exoseme pro-cess is undertaken in approximately 14 secondsper dispatch on a SUN SPARC 10, i.e.
in 1,400words/minute approximately.We consider continuing with our work relatingto the exploration of the local context (Cf.
4.4.1and 5.2.1) in two complementary directions.
Fromthe grammatical point of view, our exploration ofthe context is incomplete.
For example, we do notcategorise the unknown proper name in a complexcase such as Its Belgian subsidiary specialisingin flat products Nokia.
F rom the semantic pointof view, we do not use all the contextual data.
Forexample, the sentence The company a l ready  servesHouston, Sa int -Lou is  and Da l las  should be suffi-cient to disambiguate Saint-Louis.
We are cur-rently accumulating examples in which the local con-text enables certain proper names to be categorisedand/or to be disambiguated.
Our next step will con-sist in tightening cooperation with the following lay-ers in order to use the grammatical and semanticdata they provide in the whole process.AknowledgementsWe would like to thank Andr6 Blavier, Jean-Francois Perrot and Jean-Marie S6z6rat and the ref-erees for their comments on versions of this paper.29References\[1\]\[2\]ANDERSEN P., HAYES P., HUETTNER A.,SCHMANDT L.~ NIRENBURG I.~ WEINSTEINS.
1992 Automatic Extraction from Press Re-leases to Generate News Stories, ANLP '92COATES-STEPHEN S. 1992 The Analysis andAcquis~twn of Proper Names for Robust TextUnderstanding, Ph.D. Department of Com-put.er Science of City University, London, Eng-land\[3\] CONSTANT P. 1991 Analyse syntaxique parcouche, Th~se Tdldcom Paris, France\[4\] JACOBS P., RAU L. 1993 Innovations in textinterpretation, Artificial Intelligence 63\[5\] HAYES PH.
1994 NameFinder : Software thatfind names in Text, RIAO '94 New York\[6\] LANDAU M.-C., SILLION F., VICHOT F. 1993Exoseme : A Thematic Document FilteringSystem, Avignon '93\[7\] LANDAU M.-C., SILLION F., VICHOT F.1993 Exoseme : A Document Filtering SystemBased on Conceptual Graphs, ICCS '93\[8\] LENAT D., GUHA R. 1990 Building largeKnowledge-based Systems : Representationand Inference in the Cye Project, Addison-Wesley\[9\] McDONALD D. 1994 Trade-off Between Syn-tactic and Semantic Processing in the Com-prehension of Real texts, RIAO '94 New York\[10\] SOWA J.
1984 Conceptual Structures.
In-formation Processing Mind and Machines,Addison-Wesley\[11\] WACHOLDER N., RAVIN Y., BYRD 1:~.
1994Retrieving Information from Full Text UsingLinguistic Knowledge, IBM Research Report30
