Corpus-based Method for Automat ic  Identif ication ofSupport Verbsfor Nominal izat ionsGregory Grefenstette Simone TeufelRank Xerox Research Centre Universit?t Stuttgart38240 Meylan, France Institut ffir maschinelle Sprachverarbeitunggrefen?xerox.fr D 70174 Stuttgart 1s imone~ ims.
uni- stuttgart, deAbstractNominalization is a highly pro-ductive phenomena in most lan-guages.
The process of nominaliza-tion ejects a verb from its syntacticrole into a nominal position.
Theoriginal verb is often replaced by asemantically emptied support verb(e.g., make a proposal).
The choiceof a support verb for a given nomi-nalization is unpredictable, causinga problem for language learners aswell as for natural language pro-cessing systems.
We present herea method of discovering supportverbs from an untagged corpus vialow-level syntactic processing andcomparison of arguments attachedto verbal forms and potential nom-inalized forms.
The result of theprocess is a list of potential supportverbs for the nominalized form of agiven predicate.1 IntroductionNominalization, the transformation of a ver-bal phrase into a nominal form, is possiblein most languages (Comrie and Thompson,1990).
Nominalizations are used for a vari-ety of stylistic reasons: to avoid repetitionsof a verb, to avoid awkward intransitive usesof transitive verbs, in technical descriptionswhere passive is commonly used, etc.Though, as a result of nominalization, theoriginal verb is ejected from its syntactic po-sition, it often retains many of its thematicroles.
The original agents and patients canreappear as genitival or adjectival modifiersof the nominalized predicate.
In the syntacticplace of the original verb can appear a seman-tically impoverished verb.The semantically impoverished verb, oftencalled a support verb, to be used with a nom-inalized predicate structure is unpredictable.Allerton (1982)\[p. 76\] writes:Perhaps the most serious prob-lem for these structures is thatthere is no constant selection ofthe empty verb: sometimes we findhave, sometimes take, sometimesgive, and rarely pay; sometimeswe have a choice between two ormore empty verbs e.g.
have/takea look .
.
.
We have little choice butto record such irregularities in thelexicon .
.
.For this reason, the collocational choice of asupport verb for a given nominalization is adifficult problem for language learners, as wellas for natural language processor implemen-tation.We present here a method of deriving prob-able support verbs for nominalized predicatesfrom corpora using low-level syntactic anal-ysis and simple frequency statistics over itsresults.
This automatic procedure may belooked upon as an aid to lexicographers, as anindependent extraction tool, or as a verifica-tion of lexical collocation information storedin a machine-based lexicon.Since nominalized predicates can semanti-cally drift over time to become concrete nounshaving lost all their thematic role, our methodfirst attempts to distinguish true nominaliza-tions from concrete uses of the nominalizedsurface form.
This is done by comparing ap-proximations to the argument/adjunct struc-tures of verbal predicates to those of candi-date nominalized forms in a large corpus.
Foreach selected nominalized form, syntacticallysupporting verb information is extracted fromthe corpus and then collated, providing thecandidates for support verbs.981.1 The  rqomina l i zat ion  Cl ineThe phenomenon of nominalization in En-glish happens when a verb is replaced by anoun construction using a gerundive or nomi-nal form of the verb.
The original subject andobjects of the verb can reappear as Saxon orNorman genitives modifying the nominalizedform.Quirk et al (Quirk et al, 1985) distin-guish nominalizations between deverbal andverbal nouns.
Examples of these are advice vs.killing.
Deverbal nouns are defined as recordsof the action having taken place rather thanas description of the action itself.
This ac-counts for the contrast between their arrivingfor a month and .their arrival for a month.Deverbal nouns can be replaced by regu-lar count nouns in any context, for exam-ple painting as a deverbal noun in Brown'spaintings of his daughter can be replaced byphotograph whereas this is not the case withthe verbal noun painting in The painting ofBrown is as skillful as that of Gainsboroughwhich describes the action of painting itself(Quirk et al, 1985)\[p.1291\].As the following evidence shows, the se-mantics of the verb and much of its syntacticstructure can be retained by either of its nom-inalized forms:She was surprised that the enemy de-stroyed the city.She was surprised by the enemy('s) de-stroying the city.She was surprised by the enemy's de-struction of the city.The cline of nominalization can be seen inthe morphological changes 1 that some predi-cate undergo as they move from an inflectedverb (e.g.
destroyed) to non-inflected verbalnoun (destroying) to a deverbal noun (de-struction).In this article we shall consider only dever-bal nouns 2since these are the nominalizationsinvolving the collocational phenomena ofsup-port verbs.A remaining problem with the deverbalnouns is that the meaning of such nounscan become concretized over time, by aaThe morphological processes involved intransforming verbs into nominalizations are de-scribed in (Quirk et at., 1985), Sections 1.43 (con-version) and 1.30 (suffixation).
See also 17.52 fordiscussion of this cline.2On a practical evel, we will also accept asdeverbal nouns those forms ending in -ing whichare marked as nouns in our lexicon, e.g.
warning.metonymic association.
Compare the uses ofproposal in :He made his formal proposal to the fullcommittee.He put the proposal in the drawer.The concrete uses of deverbal nouns are notinvolved in support verb constructions sincethey have lost the semantics of actions, andtheir attending thematic roles.2 A very simple approach andits problemsLooking for support verbs for nominalizatiousmight seem an easy problem at first, giventhat these support verbs are always the mainverb for which the nominalization is the directobject.
What is needed is a low-level parserthat extracts verb-object relations from cor-pora.
Given such a parser, one might betempted to extract all the main verbs for agiven nominalized form and consider tile mostfrequent of these verbs the expected supportverbs.As will be seen below, this approach is toosimple.
The examples given above for pro-posal show that a given word form may beused with a meaning anywhere along the clinefrom true nominalization to concrete nouns.Counting verbs of which these concrete nounsare direct objects will create noise hiding thetrue support verbs.Since real nominalizations are those thatstill have verbal character, i.e.
they haveretained the semantic roles from the verb,we will try to recognize true nominalizeduses by comparing the most frequent argu-ment/adjunct structures found in the corpusaround verbal uses of a given predicate tothose syntactic structures found around tilecandidate nominalized forms 3.We will define true nominalizations asthose which have a parallel syntactic structureto the original verb.
This is also in keepingwith the definition of nominalizations given in(Quirk et al, 1985)\[p. 1288\]:A noun phrase .. .which has asystematic orrespondence with aclause structure will be termed a3Since these argument/adjunct structures aredifficult to recognize precisely without an elabo-rate parser incorporating semantic analysis, wedecided to identify heuristically the structuresfulfilling these roles, for example, taking the mostfrequently occurring prepositional phrases afterverbal sequences as adjuncts or arguments.99Nomina l i za t ion .
The noun headof such a phrase is normally relatedmorphologically to a verb, or to anadjective (i.e., a deverbal or dead-jectival noun).In this article we have been restricting theterm nominalization to the noun heading thenoun phrase.3 MethodIn this section we explain our method forextracting support verbs for nominalizations.We suppose that we are given a pair of words:ayerb and its nominalized form.
As explainedin the previous section, we are interested inextracting only nominalized forms which havenot become concrete nouns, and that this willbe done by comparing syntactic structures at-tached to the verb and noun forms.
In orderto extract corpus evidence related to thesephenomena, we proceed as follows:1.
We generate all the morphologicallyrelated forms of the word pair using alexical transducer for English(Karttunen et al, 1992).
This list ofwords will be used as corpus filter.2.
The lines of the corpus are tokenized(Grefenstette and Tapanainen, 1994),and only sentences containing one ofthe word forms in the filter are retained.3.
The corpus lines retained arepart-of-speech tagged (Cutting et al,1992).
This allows us to divide thecorpus evidence into verb evidence andnoun evidence.4.
Using a robust surface parser(Grefenstette, 1994), we derive the localsyntactic patterns involving the verbalform and the nominalized form.5.
Considering that nominalized formsretain some of the verbal characteristicsof the underlying predicate, we want toextract the most commonargument/adjunct structures foundaround verbal uses of the predicate.
Asan approximation, we extract here allthe prepositional phrases found afterthe verb.6.
For nominal forms, we select only thoseuses which involve argument/adjunctstructures imilar to phrases extractedin the previous step.
For these selectednominalized forms, we extract the verbsof which these forms are the directfrequency458 million438 billion296 accord260 increase239 call201 year198 change178 support154 proposal154 percent143 money142 plan139 cut130 aid124 program122 peopleFigure 1: The most common nouns preced-ing the most common prepositions following'propose', and appearing in the same environ-ment.object.
We sort these verbs byfrequency.7.
This sorted list is the list of candidatesupport verbs for the nominalization.This method assumes that the verb andthe nominalized form of the verb are given.We have experimented with automatically ex-tracting the nominalized form by using theprepositional patterns extracted for the verbin step 5.
We extracted 6 megabytes of news-paper articles containing a form of the verbpropose: propose, proposes, proposed, propos-ing.
Since one use of nominalization is toavoid repetition of the verb form, we supposethat the nominalization of propose is likely toappear in the same articles.
We extracted thethree most common prepositions following aform of propose (step 5).
We then extractedthe nouns appearing in these same artiglesand which preceded these prepositions.~oTheresults 4 appear in figure 1.
Since a nomilml-ized form is normally morphologically relatedto the verb form, almost any morphologicalcomparison method will pick proposal fromthis list.4Further experimentation has confirmed theseresults, but indicate that it may sufficient tosimply tag a text, and perform morphologicalcomparison with the most commonly cooccurringnouns in order to extract he nominalized formsof verbs.100frequency167 reject127 hear114 make81 fileFigure 2: Most common verbs of which 'ap-peal' is marked as direct object.4 Experiment withappeal-appealWe have taken for example the case of theverb appeal which was interesting since itscorresponding deverbal noun shares the samesurface form appeal.
In order to extract cor-pus evidence, we used a lexical transducer ofEnglish that, given the surface word appeal,produced all the inflected forms appeal, ap-peal's, appealing, appealed, appeals and ap-peals '.Using these surface forms as a filter, wescanned 134 Megabytes of tokenized Asso-ciated Press newswire stories from the year19895.
As a result of filtering, 6704 sen-tences (1 Mbyte of text) were extracted.
Thistext was part-of-speech tagged using the Xe-rox HMM tagger (Cutt ing et al, 1992).
Thelexical entries corresponding to appeal weretagged with the following tags: as a noun(3910 times), as an active or infinitival verb(1417), as a progressive verb (292), and as apast participle (400).This tagged text was then parsed by alow-level dependency parser (Grefenstette,1994)\[Chap 3\].
From the output of the de-pendency parser we extracted all the lexicallynormalized verbs of which appeal was taggedas a direct object.
The most common of theseverbs are shown in Figure 2.Our speaker's intuition tells us that thesupport verb for the nominalized use of ap-peal is make.
But this data does not give usenough information to make this judgement,since concrete versions as a separate entityare not distinguishable from nomlnalizationsof the verb.In order to separate nominalized uses ofthe predicate appeal from concrete uses, wewill refer to the linguistic discussion presentedin the introduction that says that nominal-izations retain some of the argument/adjunctstructure of the verbal predicate.
This is ver-ified in the corpus since we find many parallelSThis corresponds to 20 million words of text.structures involving appeal both as a verb andas a noun, such as:Vice President Salvador Laurel saidtoday that an ailing Ferdinand Mar-cos may not survive the year andappealed to Pres ident  CorazonAqu ino  to allow her ousted predeces-sor to die in his homeland.Mrs.
Marcos made a publ ic  appealto Pres ident  Corazon Aqu lno  toallow Marcos to return to his home-land to die.Indeed, if we examine a common nominal-ization transformation, i.e.
that of transform-ing the direct object of a verb into a Normangenitive of the nominalized form, we find agreat overlap in the lexical arguments 6.VERB FORM NOMINALIZATION22 appeal of conv ic t ion  67 appeal dec is ion61 appeal ru l ing35 appeal conv ic t ion29 appeal verd ic t23 appeal case22 appeal sentence21 appeal o rder7 appeal judgment10 appeal of ru l ing9 appeal of o rder6 appeal of dec is ion4 appeal of verd ic t4 appeal of sentence4 appeal of plan4 appeal of.inmateThe parser's output allowed us to extractpatterns involving prepositional phrases fol-lowing noun phrases headed by appeal aswell as those following verb sequences headedby appeal.
The most common prepositionalphrases found after appeal as a verb beganwith the prepositions7: Lo (466 times), for(145), in (18), on (12), wilh (5), etc.
Theprepositional phrases following appeal as anoun are headed by to (321 times), for (253),in (200), of (134), from (78), on (34), etc.The correspondence between the most fre-quent prepositions allowed us to consider thatthe patterns of a noun phrase headed byappeal followed by one these prepositionalphrases (i.e., begun with to, for, and in) con-stituted true nominalizations s. There were6We decided not to use this type of data in ourexperiments because matching lexical argumentsrequires much larger corpora than the ones wehad extracted for the other verbs tested.rWe ignored prepositionM phrases headed byby as being probable passivizations, since ourparser does not recognize passive patterns involv-ing by.SHere we used only part of the corpus evidencethat was available.
Other patterns of nominM-izations of appeal, e.g.
Saxon genitives like thecriminal's appeal, may well exist in the corpus.101frequency63 make16 have15 issueFigure 3: Most common verbs supporting thestructure NP PP where 'appeal '  heads the NPand where one of {to, for, in} begins the PP.774 instances of these patterns.The parser's output further allowed us toextract the verbs for which these nominaliza-tions were considered as the direct objects.318 of these nominal syntactic patterns in-cluding to, for and in were found.
Of thesepatterns, the main verb supporting the objec-tive nominalizations are shown in Figure 3.These results suggest hat the support verbfor the nominalization of appeal is make.5 Other Predicate Examplesand DiscussionWhen the same filtering technique is appliedto subcorpora derived for other nominaliza-tion pairs, we obtain the results given in Fig-ure 4.
For each verb-noun pair all sentencescontaining any form of the words were ex-tracted from the AP corpus.
The sentenceswere processed as explained in section 3.
Foreach verbal use, the most frequent preposi-tional phrases following the verbs were tab-ulated and the three most frequent preposi-tions were retained.
For example, the mostfrequent prepositions beginning prepositionalphrases following verb uses of the lemma of-fer were for, in and to.
These prepositionswere used to select probable nominalizationsby extracting noun uses of the predicatesthat were immediately followed by preposi-tional phrases headed by one of the three mostfrequent verbal prepositions.
For these ex-tracted noun phrases, when they were foundin a direct object position, the main verbswere tabulated which gives the results in Fig-ure 4.Some of the results in Figure 4 correspondto our naive intuitions of collocational sup-port verbs, such as make an offer.
For dis-cussion, both have and hold appear equallyfrequently.
But other words show the limita-tions of this method, we would expect makea demand where we find meet a demand.
Inthe same subcorpus, although we find makea demand 77 times, meet a demand is two-and-a-half times more common.
Could this bebecause, in a newswire corpus, meeting a de-mand is more newsworthy than making one?If we just look at the cases where demandis modified by the indefinite article; whichmight correspond to the more generic nom-inalizations one spontaneously creates whengenerating examples, we find that in the cor-pus make a demand occurs slightly more oftenthan meet a demand, ten times vs. six times,but this is too rare to use as a criterion.In other cases, such as with proposal andassertion we find make and reject with almostequal frequency, and though make might wellbe considered a support verb, it is hard toaccept reject as semantically empty.
Thoughreject is more a consequence than an antonymof make a proposal, this raises the question, towhich we have no answer, of whether supportverbs have an equally empty antonym.A more interesting case is the appearanceof issue for order and warning where wewould expect give.
Looking into the corpusevidence, we find issue a restraining order46 times, and give any type of order only16 times.
This evidence suggest a limita-tion of our word-based approach.
Multi-wordphrases, such as the nominalized phrase re-straining order, might take a different supportverb than the simple unqualified word forms,such as order.6 Conc lus ionsNominalization is a very productive process.The proper choice of collocational supportverbs for nominalizations in English is a dif-ficult task for language learners given theunpredictability of the semantically emptiedverb that fulfills the syntactic role.
Givena robust parser and large corpus, the sim-ple technique of extracting the most commonverbs for which the nominalized form is the di-rect object is not always sufficient, since com-pletely deverbal concrete noun uses share thesame lexical surface form.
Comparing argu-ment/adjunct structures involving the verbaluses of the predicate and using the most com-mon of these structures as filters on the sur-face forms possibly corresponding to nominal-izations captures the linguistic fact that nom-inalizations retain the syntactic structures oftheir underlying predicate.
When these fil-ters are applied, the most common supportingverb in the corpus for the recognized nominal-ized patterns seems to correspond to nativespeakers' intuition of the support verb asso-ciated with the nominalization.The experiment described here on a 134102nominalizationoffer-offerdiscuss-discussiondemand-demandpropose-proposalorder-ordercomplain-complaintwarn-warningconfirm-confirmationassert-assertionsuggest-suggestionprepsfor(ll6), in(100), to(98)with(127), in(85), at(54)for(37), in(28), of(22)in(103), for(77), to(46)of(91), to(50), in(33)about(183), of(155), to(91)of(140), against(46), in(44)in(30), of(28), to(10)in(12), at(3), to(2)to(60), in(57), of(27)most common main verbsmake (116 cases), begin(37), launch(36)have (42), hold(42), begin(9)meet(58), press(34), increase(22)make(28), reject(26), submit(19)issue (24), give(8), bring(7)receive (20), file(12), have(10)issue (17), receive(5), make(4)win (6), recommend(5), have(4)make (3), repeat(l), dispute(l)make(5), reject(5), offer(2)Figure 4: Most common verbs supporting the structure found for other nominalization pairsusing the syntactic structure filtering mechanism.megabyte corpus of newspaper text fromwhich was extracted evidence for appealand other predicates hows how this auto-mated procedure can be applied to any verb-nominalization pair given a large corpus and arobust parser.
Other work in automated sup-port verb discovery using bilingual dictionar-ies as a source has been reported in Fontenelle(1993).It remains to be seen whether these statis-tical results are more useful to lexicographersthan their more traditional tools of key-word-in-context files and T-score measures.
Humanexperiments would be necessary to demon-strate this.
Another useful test of the re-sults would be to compare the results givenby this technique against machine-readabledictionary-derived data.In conclusion, the interest of this techniqueis its general approach to corpus linguistics asone of multiple passes over the same corpusmaterial, using results of previous passes tofilter and refine data extracted on subsequentpasses.
We believe that this approach, cou-pled with lexical resources and robust parsers,offers much promise for the future of corpusexploitation.ReferencesD.
J. Allerton.
1982.
Valency and the Englishverb.
Academic Press, London.Bernard Comrie and Sandra A. Thompson.1990.
Lexical nominalization.
In Tim-othy Shopen, editor, Language Typologyand Syntactic Description, volume 3.
Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge.Doug Cutting, Julian Kupiec, Jan Pedersen,and Penelope Sibun.
1992.
A practicalpart-of-speech tagger.
Proceedings of theThird Conference on Applied Natural Lan-guage Processing, April.Thierry Fontenelle.
1993.
Using a bilingualcomputerized ictionary to retrieve sup-port verbs and combinatorial information.Acta Linguistica Hungaraica, 41(1-4):109-121.G.
Grefenstette and P. Tapanainen.
1994.What is a word, what is a sentence?
Prob-lems of tokenization.
In 3rd Conferenceon Computational Lexicography and TextResearch, Budapest, Hungary, 7-10 July.COMPLEX'94.Gregory Grefenstette.
1994.
Explorations inAutomatic Thesaurus Discovery.
KluwerAcademic Press, Boston.Lauri Karttunen, Ronald M. Kaplan, and An-nie Zaenen.
1992.
Two-level morphologywith composition.
In Proceedings COLING'92, pages 141-148, Nantes, France, August23-28.Randolph Quirk, Sidney Greenbaum, Geof-frey Leech, and Jan Svartvik.
1985.
AComprehensive Grammar of the EnglishLanguage.
Longman Group, Inc., NewYork.103
