An A lgor i thm to Co-Ordinate Anaphora Reso lut ion and PPSDisambiguat ion ProcessSal iha AzzamCRIL Ing6nierie - CAMS La Sorbonne174, Rue de la RSpubhque92817 PuteauxFranceazzam@cril-ing.frAbst rac tBoth anaphora resolution and preposi-tional phrase (PP) attachment are themost frequent ambiguities in natural lan-guage processing.
Several methods havebeen proposed to deal with each phe-nomenon separately, however none ofproposed systems has considered the wayof dealing both phenomena We tacklethis issue here, proposing an algorithmto co-ordinate the treatment of these twoproblems efficiently, i.e., the aim is alsoto exploit at each step all the results thateach component can provide.1 In t roduct ionSeveral methods have been proposed to dealwith anaphora resolution and prepositional phrase(PP) attachment phenomenon and separately, sothat the literature is very abundant : for PPs seee.g., (Frazier and Fodor, 1979; Hobbs, 1990), and(Wilks and Huang, 1985), and for anaphora seee.g., (Carter, 1986; Reinhart, 1983) and (Sidner,1983).
However none of these methods has con-sidered the way of dealing both phenomena in thesame concrete system.We propose in this paper an algorithm thatdeals with both phenomena, in the same anal-yser.
The anaphora module pertains to the recentmethods, uses a set of resolution rules based onthe focusing approach, see (Sidner, 1983).
Theserules are applied to the conceptual representationand their output is a set of candidate antecedents.Concerning the PPs, unattached prepositions in-volve empty or unfilled roles in the ConceptualStructures (CSs), expressed in a frame-based lan-guage (Zarri, 1999).
The disambiguation proce-dure alms at filling the empty roles using attach-ment rules.This work was accomplished in the context ofCOBALT project (LRE 61-01 ), dealing with fi-nancial news.
A detailed discussion about bothprocedures of anaphora resolution and PP attach-ment is largely developed in (Azzam, 1994).2 The  a lgor i thmTwo of the main principles of the algorithm are :a) The algorithm is applied on the text sentenceby sentence, i.e.
the ambiguities of the previoussentences have already been considered (resolvedor not).b) The anaphora procedure skips the resolutionof a given anaphor when this anaphor is precededby an unattached preposition.
This is because theresolution rules may have an empty role as a pa-rameter, due to this unattached preposition.
Theresolution of the anaphor is then postponed to thesecond phase of anaphora resolution.The proposed procedure is based on successivecalls to the anaphora module and to the PP at-tachment module.
The output of each call isa set of CSs that represent he intermediate re-suits exchanged between each call and on whichboth modules operate in turn.
The aim is to fillthe unfilled roles in the CSs, due to anaphora orunattached PPs.
To summarize the algorithm is:1) Apply the anaphora module first.2) Apply the PP attachment procedure.3) If some anaphora.are l ft unresolved, applythe anaphora module again.4) If there are still unattached PPs, apply theattachment procedure again.5) Repeat (3) and (4), until all VPs andanaphors are treated.The order in which the two modules are called isbased on efficiency deduced from statistical dataperformed on COBALT corpuses.Three main cases are faced by the algorithm :a) When the anaphor occurs before a given prepo-sition in the sentence, its resolution does not de-pend on where the preposition is to be attached(except for cataphors that are quite rare).
In this284case the anaphora module can be applied beforethe attachment procedure.The example 1 below shows that the resolutionof the anaphoric pronoun that must be performedfirst and that the PP starting with of be attachedlater.
(1) The sale of Credito was first proposed lastAugust and that of BC I  late last ~lear.b) When the anaphor occurs after one or sev-eral unattached prepositions, it could be an intra-sententiai anaphor (i.e.
referring to an entity inthe same sentence), then its resolution may de-pend on one of the previous prepositional phrases.In this case, the resolution of the anaphora is post-poned to a next call of the anaphora module ac-cording to principle b) stated above.c) When the anaphor is included in a PP (particu-lar case of b), PP attachment rules need semanticinformation about the "object" of the PP; when itis a pronoun, no semantic information is available,so that the attachment rules can not be applied.The anaphoric pronouns have to be resolved first,so as to determine what semantic lass they re-fer to ; the PP attachment procedure can thenbe applied.
When a sequence contains more thantwo such PPs, i.e., with anaphors as objects, thelength of a cycle is more than 4.3 An example(~) UPHB shares have been suspended since Oc-tober ~g at the firm's request following a surge inits share price on a takeover umour.- The pronoun its can not be resolved by theanaphora resolution module because it is precededby unattached PPs ; its resolution is skipped.- The PP attachment procedure is then called todetermine the attachment of since and at whilethe object of the in PP comprises an anaphoricpronoun its (case c).- The anaphora module is called again to resolvethe anaphoric pronoun its, which is possible, inthis example, since the previous PPs have beenattached and there is no anaphors before.- Finally, the PP attachment procedure has to becalled again for the in PP.Notice that even if each module is called sev-eral times, there is no redundancy in the process-ing.
The algorithm should be considered as thesplitting of both anaphora resolution and PP at-tachment procedures into several phases and notas the repetition of each procedure.4 Conclus ionThe objective was to emphasise more than it hasbeen done until now, the fact that PP attach-ment and anaphora resolution could interact inthe same system in order to produce a completeconceptual analysis, instead of slowing down eachother.
The algorithm we proposed in this.
paper,is independent of the used approaches in bothanaphora nd attachment modules.
It concernsrather the way of managing the interaction be-tween the two modules.Our actual work addresses more the problemsinside each module.
The attachment module hasbeen implemented at 99%.
Presently we are work-ing on the extension of the anaphora module par-ticularly to deal also with the anaphoric definitenoun phrases.ReferencesAzzam, S. 1994.
CLAM COBALT conceptualanalyser (COBALT Tech.
Report Del6.2).
CRILIng~nierie.Carter, D. 1987.
Interpreting Anaphors in nat-ural language Texts.
Chichester: Ellis Horwood.Frasier, L. and Fodor, J.
1979.
The sausagemachine: A New Two-Stage Parsing Model, Cog-nition, 6.I-Iobbs, J.R., and Bear, J.
1990.
Two Princi-ples of Parse Reference in Proceedings of the 13thInternational Conference on Computational Lin-guistics - COLING/90, vol.
3, Karlgren, H., ed.Helsinki: University Press.Reinhart, T. 1983.
Anaphora and Semantic In-terpretation.
London : Croom Helm.Sidner, C.L.
1983.
Focusing for Interpretationof pronouns.
American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics, 7, 217-231.Wilks, Y., Huang, X., and Fass, D. 1985.
Syn-tax, Preference and Right Attachment, IJCAI.Zarri, G.P.
1992.
The descriptive compo-nent of hybrid knowledge representation language,In: Semantic networks in Artificial Intelligence,Lehmann, F., ed.
Oxford: Pergamon Press.285
