Proceedings of EACL '99A Corpus-Based Approach to Deriving Lexical MappingsMark  StevensonDepar tment  of Computer  Science,University of Sheffield,Regent Court,  211 Portobel lo  Street,Sheffield S1 4DPUnited K ingdommarks?dcs,  he f .
ac .
ukAbst ractThis paper proposes a novel, corpus-based, method for producing mappingsbetween lexical resources.
Results froma preliminary experiment using part ofspeech tags suggests this is a promisingarea for future research.1 In t roduct ionDictionaries are now commonly used resources inNLP systems.
However, different lexical resourcesare not uniform; they contain different ypes ofinformation and do not assign words the samenumber of senses.
One way in which this prob-lem might be tackled is by producing mappingsbetween the senses of different resources, the "dic-tionary mapping problem".
However, this is anon-trivial problem, as examination of existinglexical resources demonstrates.
Lexicographershave been divided between "lumpers', or thosewho prefer a few general senses, and "splitters"who create a larger number of more specific sensesso there is no guarantee that a word will have thesame number of senses in different resources.Previous attempts to create lexical mappingshave concentrated on aligning the senses in pairsof lexical resources and based the mapping de-cision on information in the entries.
For ex-ample, Knight and Luk (1994) merged WordNetand LDOCE using information in the hierarchiesand textual definitions of each resource.Thus far we have mentioned only mappingsbetween dictionary senses.
However, it is possibleto create mappings between any pair of linguisticannotation tag-sets; for example, part of speechtags.
We dub the more general class lexical map-pings, mappings between two sets of lexical an-notations.
One example which we shall considerfurther is that of mappings between part of speechtags sets.This paper shall propose a method for produ-cing lexical mappings based on corpus evidence.
Itis based on the existence of large-scale xical an-notation tools such as part of speech taggers andsense taggers, several of which have now been de-veloped, for example (Brill, 1994)(Stevenson a dWilks, 1999).
The availability of such taggersbring the possibility of automatically annotatinglarge bodies of text.
Our proposal is, briefly, touse a pair of taggers with each assigning annota-tions from the lexical tag-sets we are interested inmapping.
These taggers can then be applied to,the same, large body of text and a mapping de-rived from the distributions of the pair of tag-setsin the corpus.2 Case  StudyIn order to test this approach we attempted tomap together two part of speech tag-sets.
Wechose this form of linguistic annotation becauseit is commonly used in NLP systems and reliabletaggers are readily available.The tags sets we shall examine are the set usedin the Penn Tree Bank (PTB) (Marcus et al,1993) and the C5 tag-set used by the CLAWSpart-of-speech tagger (Garside, 1996).
The PTBset consists of 48 annotations while the C5 uses alarger set of 73 tags.A portion of the British National Corpus(BNC), consisting of nearly 9 million words, wasused to derive a mapping.
One advantage ofusingthe BNC is that it has already been tagged withC5 tags.
The first stage was to re-tag our corpususing the Brill tagger (Brill, 1994).
This producesa bi-tagged corpus in which each token has two an-notations.
For example ponders/VBZ/VVZ, whichrepresents he token is ponders assigned the Brilltag VBZ and VVZ C5 tag.The bi-tagged corpus was used to derive a pairof mappings; the word mapping and the tag map-ping.
To construct he word mapping from thePTB to C5 we look at each token-PTB tag pair285Proceedings of EACL '99and found the C5 tag which occurs with it mostfrequently.
The tag mapping does not considertokens so, for example, the PTB to C5 tag map-ping looks at each PTB tag in turn to find the C5tag with which it occurs most frequently in thecorpus.
The C5 to PTB mappings were derivedby reversing this process.In order to test our method we took a texttagged with one of the two tag-sets used in ourexperiments and translate that tagging to theother.
We then compare the newly annotated textagainst some with "gold standard" tagging.
It istrivial to obtain text annotated with C5 tags us-ing the BNC.
Our evaluation of the C5 to PTBmapping shall operate by tagging a text using theBrill tagger, using the derived mapping to trans-late the annotations to C5 tags and compare theannotations produced with those in the BNC text.However, it is more difficult to obtain gold stand-ard text for evaluating the mapping in the reversedirection since we do not have access to a part ofspeech tagger which assigns C5 tags.
That is, wecannot annotate a text with C5 tags, use our map-ping to translate these to PTB tags and compareagainst he manual annotations from the corpus.Instead of tagging the unannotated text we usethe existing C5 tags and translate those to PTBtags.
Each approach to producing old standarddata has problems and advantages.
The Brill tag-ger has a reported error rate of 3% and so cannotbe expected to produce perfectly annotated text.However, when we tag the text with PTB tags anduse the mapping to translate these taggings to C5annotations we have no way to determine whethererroneous C5 tags were produced by errors in theBrill tagging or the mapping.Our test corpus was a text from the BNC con-sisting of 40,397 tokens.
Both word and tag map-pings were created in each direction (PTB to C5and C5 to PTB).
To apply the tag mapping wesimply used it to convert he assigned annotationfrom one tag-set o the other.
However, when theword mapping is applied there is the danger thata word-tag pair may not appear in the mappingand, if this is the case, the tag mapping is used asa default map.The results from our evaluation are shown inTable 1.
We can see that the C5 to PTB wordmapping produces impressive results which areclose to the theoretical upper bound of 97% forthe task.
In addition the word mapping in theopposite direction is correct for 95% of tokens.Although the results for the word mappings ineach direction are quite similar, there is a signific-ant difference in the performances of the default\[ Type lWordTagDirectionC5toPTB PTBtoC597% 95%86% 74%Table 1: Mapping resultsmappings, 86% and 74%.
Analysis suggests thatthe PTB to C5 default mapping is less successfulthan the one which operates in the opposite dir-ection because it attempts to reproduce the tagsin a fine-grained set from a more general one.3 Conc lus ion  and Future  WorkThis paper considered the possibility of producingmappings between dictionary senses using auto-matically annotated corpora.
A case-study usingpart of speech tags suggested this may be a prom-ising area for future research.Our next step in this research shall be to extendour approach to map together dictionary senses.The reported experiment using part of speech tagsassumed a one-to-one mapping between tag setsand, while this may be reasonable in this situ-ation, it may not hold when dictionary senses arebeing mapped.
Future research is planned intoways of deriving mappings without this restric-tion.
In addition, we will also explore methodsfor deriving mappings when corpus data is sparse.ReferencesE.
Brill.
1994.
Some advances in transformation-based part of speech tagging.
In AAAI-94,Seattle, WA.R.
Garside.
1996.
The robust tagging of unres-tricted text: the BNC experince.
In J. Thomasand M. Short, editors, Using corpora for lan-guage research: Studies in Honour of GeoffreyLeach.K.
Knight and S. Luk.
1994.
Building a largeknowledge base for machine translation.
InAAAI-94, Seattle, WA.M.
Marcus, B. Santorini, and M. Marcinkiewicz.1993.
Building a large annotated corpus of Eng-lish: The Penn Tree Bank.
Computational Lin-guistics, 19.M.
Stevenson and Y. Wilks.
1999.
Combiningweak knowledge sources for sense disambigu-ation.
In IJCAI-99, Stockholm, Sweden.
(toappear).286
