Proceedings of EACL '99Des ign ing  spel l ing correctors for inf lected languages  us inglexical t ransducersI .
A ldezaba l ,  I .
A legr ia ,  O .
Ansa ,  J .
M .
Ar r io la  and N .
Eze izaUnivers i ty  of  the Basque Count ry649 postakutxa ,  20080 Donost ia .
Basque Count ryi .a legria@si.ehu.esI.
Aduriz A. Da CostaUZEI Hizkia1 IntroductionThis paper describes the components used inthe design of the commercial Xuxen I I  spellingchecker/corrector f Basque.
It is a new versionof the Xuxen spelling corrector (Aduriz et al, 97)which uses lexical transducers to improve the pro-cess.
A very important new feature is the use ofuser dictionaries whose entries can recognise boththe original and inflected forms.
In languageswith a high level of inflection such as Basquespelling checking cannot be resolved without ad-equate treatment of words from a morphologicalstandpoint.
In addition to this, the morphologi-cal treatment has other important features: cov-erage, reusability of tools, orthogonality and secu-rity.
The tool is based in lexical transducers andis built using the fst library of Inxight 1.
A lexi-cal transducer (Karttunen, 94) is a finite-state au-tomaton that maps inflected surface forms to lex-ical forms, and can be seen as an evolution of two-level morphology (Koskenniemi, 83) where the useof diacritics and homographs can be avoided andthe intersection and composition of transducersis possible.
In addition, the process is very fastand the transducer for the whole morphologicaldescription can be compacted in less than 1Mbyte.The design of the spelling corrector consists of fourmain modules:?
the standard checker,?
the recogniser using user-lexicons,?
the corrector of linguistic variants -proposalsfor dialectal uses and competence errors-.
the corrector of typographical errorsAn important feature is its homogeneity.
Thedifferent steps are based on lexical transducers, farfrom ad-hoc solutions.lInxight Software, Inc., a Xerox New EnterpriseCompany (www.inxight.com)2 The Spelling CheckerThe spelling checker accepts as correct any wordwhich allows a correct standard morphologicalbreakdown.
When a word is not recognised bythe checker, it is assumed to be a misspelling anda warning is given to the user who has differentoptions, being one of most interesting includingits lemma in the user-lexicon.2.1 The  user lexiconsThe user-lexicon is offered in order to increase thecoverage and to manage specific terminology.
Ourtool recognises all the possible inflections of a root.The use of a lexical transducer for this purpose isdifficult because it is necessary to compile the newentries with the affixes and the rules to update itbut this process is slow.
The mechanism we haveimplemented has the following two main compo-nents in order to be able to treatment declensions:1. a general transducer which use standard rulesbut totally opened lexicon.
The result of theanalysis is not only if the word is known ornot, but also all the possible lemmas corre-sponding to this word-form and the gram-matical category of each one.
The resultinglexical transducer is very compact and fast.2.
a searcher of these hypothetical lemmas inthe user-lexicons.
If one of them is found,the checker will accept he word, otherwise itwill suppose that it has to be corrected.For this process the system has an interface toupdate the user lexicon because the part of speechof the lemmas is necessary when they are addedto the user lexicon.3 The  Spe l l ing  Cor rectorAlthough there is a wide bibliography about theproblem of correction (Kukich, 92), it is significa-tive that almost all of them do not mention the265Proceedings ofEACL '99relation with morphology and assume that thereis a whole dictionary of words or that the sys-tem works without lexical information.
Oflazerand Guzey (1994) face the problem of correctingwords in agglutinative languages.3.1 Correcting Competence ErrorsThe need of managing competence errors -alsonamed orthographic errors- has been mentionedand reasoned by different authors (van Berkel &:de Smedt, 88).
When we faced the problem of cor-recting misspelled words the main problem foundwas that because of the recent standardisation andthe widespread ialectal use of Basque, compe-tence errors or linguistic variants are more likelyand therefore their treatment becomes critical.When we decided to use lexical transducers forthe treatment of linguistic variants, the followingprocedure was applied to build the transducer:1.
Additional morphemes are linked to the stan-dard ones using the possibility of expressingtwo levels in the lexicon.2.
Definition of additional rules for competenceerrors that do not need to be integrated withthe standard ones.
It is possible and clearerto put these rules in other plane near to thesurface and compose them with the standardrules, because most of the additional rules aredue to phonetic hanges.When a word-form is not accepted the word ischecked against his second transducer.
If the in-correct form is recognised now -i.e.
it containsa competence error- the correct lexical level formis directly obtained and, as the transducers arebi-directional, the corrected surface form will begenerated from the lexical form using only stan-dard transducer.For example, the word-form beartzetikan, mis-spelling of behartzetik (from the need) can be cor-rected although the edit-distance is three.
Theprocess of correction is the following:?
Decomposition i to three morphemes: behar(using a rule to guess the h), tze and tikan.?
tikan is a non-standard use of tik and as theyare linked in the lexicon is chosen.
* The standard generation of behar+tze+tikobtains the correct word behartzetik.3.2 Handling Typographical ErrorsThe treatment of typographical errors is quiteconventional nd performs the following:?
Generating proposals to typographical errorsusing Damerau's classification (edit distanceof one).
These proposals are ranked in orderof trigramic probability.?
Spelling checking of proposals.3.3 ResultsThe results are very good in the case of compe-tence errors and not so good for typographical er-rors because in the last case only errors with anedit-distance of one have been planned.
In 89rightproposal is generated and in 71possible to gener-ate and test all the possible words with an edit-distance higher, but the number of proposal wouldbe very high.
The corrector has been integratedin several tools.
A demonstration can be seen inhttp://ixa.si.ehu.es.Acknowledgements This work has had partialsupport from the Culture Department ofthe Gov-ernment of the Basque Country.
We would like tothank to Xerox for letting us using their tools, andalso to Lauri Karttunen for his help.ReferencesAduriz I., Alegria I., Artola X., Ezeiza N., Sara-sola K., Urkia M. (1997), A spelling correctorfor Basque based on morphology.
Literary &Linguistic Computing, Vol.
12, No.
1.
OxfordUniversity Press.
Oxford.Alegria I., Artola X., Sarasola K (1997).
Improv-ing a Robust Morphological AnaIyser using Lex-ical Transducers.
Recent Advances in NaturalLanguage Processing.
Current Issues in Linguis-tic Theory (CILT) series.
John Benjamins pub-lisher company.
Vol.
136. pp 97-110.Karttunen L. (1994).
Constructing Lexical Trans-ducers, Proc.
of COLING'94, 406-411.Koskenniemi, K. (1983).
Two-level Morphology:A general Computational Model for Word-Form Recognition and Production, Universityof Helsinki, Department ofGeneral Linguistics.Publications No.
11.Kukich K. (1992).
Techniques for automaticallycorrecting word in text.
ACM Computing Sur-veys, vol.
24, No.
4, 377-439.Oflazer K, Guzey C. (1994).
Spelling Correctionin Aglutinative Languages, Proc.
of ANLP-94,Sttutgart.Van Barkel B, De Smedt K. (1988).
Triphone anal-ysis: a combined method \]or the correction o\]orthographic and typographical errors.
Proced-ings of the Second Conference ANLP (ACL),pp.77-83.266
