Proceedings of EACL '99Determinants of Adjective-Noun Plausibil ityMaria Lapata and Scott McDonald and Frank KellerSchool of Cognitive ScienceDivision of Informatics, University of Edinburgh2 Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh EH8 9LW, UK{mlap, scottm, keller} @cogsci.ed.ac.ukAbstractThis paper explores the determinants ofadjective-noun plausibility by using cor-relation analysis to compare judgementselicited from human subjects with fivecorpus-based variables: co-occurrence fre-quency of the adjective-noun pair, noun fre-quency, conditional probability of the noungiven the adjective, the log-likelihood ra-tio, and Resnik's (1993) selectional asso-ciation measure.
The highest correlation isobtained with the co-occurrence frequency,which points to the strongly lexicalist andcollocational nature of adjective-noun com-binations.1 IntroductionResearch on linguistic plausibility has focused mainlyon the effects of argument plausibility during the pro-cessing of locally ambiguous entences.
Psycholin-guists have investigated whether the plausibility ofthe direct object affects reading times for sentenceslike (1).
Here, argument plausibility refers to "prag-matic plausibility" or "local semantic fit" (Holmes etal., 1989), and judgements of plausibility are typi-cally obtained by asking subjects to rate sentence frag-ments containing verb-argument combinations (as anexample consider the bracketed parts of the sentencesin (1)).
Such experiments typically use an ordinal scalefor plausibility (e.g., from 1 to 7).
(1) a.
\[The senior senator regretted the decision\]had ever been made public.b.
\[The senior senator regretted the reporter\]had ever seen the report.The majority of research as focussed on investigatingthe effect of rated plausibility for verb-object ombi-nations in human sentence processing (Garnsey et al,1997; Pickering and Traxler, 1998).
However, plausi-bility effects have also been observed for adjective-noun combinations in a head-modifier relationship.Murphy (1990) has shown that typical adjective-noun phrases (e.g., salty olives) are easier to in-terpret in comparison to atypical ones (e.g., sweetolives).
Murphy provides a schema-based xplana-tion for this finding by postulating that in typicaladjective-noun phrases, the adjective modifies part ofthe noun's schema nd consequently it is understoodmore quickly, whereas in atypical combinations, theadjective modifies non-schematic aspects of the noun,which leads to interpretation difficulties.Smadja (1991) argues that the reason people preferstrong tea to powerful tea and powerful car to strongcar is neither purely syntactic nor purely semantic, butrather lexical.A similar argument is put forward by Cruse (1986),who observes that the adjective spotless collocateswell with the noun kitchen, relatively worse with thenoun complexion and not all with the noun taste.
Ac-cording to Cruse, words like spotless have idiosyn-cratic collocational restrictions: differences in the de-gree of acceptability ofthe adjective and its collocatesdo not seem to depend on the meaning of the individ-ual words.1.1 MotivationAcquiring plausibility ratings for word combinations(e.g., adjective-noun, verb-object, noun-noun) can beuseful in particular for language generation.
Considera generator which has to make a choice between spot-less kitchen and flawless kitchen.
An empirical modelof plausibility could predict hat spotless kitchen is aplausible lexical choice, while flawless kitchen is not.Adjective-noun combinations can be hard to gen-erate given their collocational status.
For a generatorwhich selects words solely on semantic grounds with-out taking into account lexical constraints, the choicebetween spotless kitchen and flawless kitchen maylook equivalent.
Current work in natural language gen-eration (Knight and Hatzivassiloglou, 1995; Langk-ilde and Knight, 1998) has shown that corpus-basedknowledge can be used to address lexical choice non-compositionally.30Proceedings of EACL '99In the work reported here we acquire plausibilityratings for adjective-noun combinations by elicitingjudgements from human subjects, and examine the ex-tent to which different corpus-based models correlatewith human intuitions about he "goodness of fit" fora range of adjective-noun combinations.The research presented in this paper is similarin motivation to Resnik's (1993) work on selec-tional restrictions.
Resnik evaluated his information-theoretic model of selectional constraints against hu-man plausibility ratings for verb-object ombinations,and showed that, in most cases, his model assignedhigher selectional association scores to verb-objectcombinations which were judged more plausible byhuman subjects.We test five corpus-based models against humanplausibility judgements:1.
Familiarity of adjective-noun pair.
We opera-tionalise familiarity as co-occurrence frequencyin a large corpus.
We calculate the co-occurrencefrequency of adjective-noun pairs in order to ex-amine whether high corpus frequency is corre-lated with plausibility, and correspondingly lowcorpus frequency with implausibility.2.
Familiarity of head noun.
We compare ratedplausibility with the corpus frequency of the headnoun, the motivation being that highly frequentnouns are more familiar than less frequent ones,and consequently may affect the judged plausi-bility of the whole noun phrase.3.
Conditional probability.
Our inclusion of theconditional probability, P(noun I adjective), asa predictor variable also relies on the predic-tion that plausibility is correlated with corpus fre-quency.
It differs from simple co-occurrence fre-quency in that it additionally takes the overall ad-jective frequency into account.4.
Coliocational status.
We employ the log-likelihood ratio as a measure of the collocationalstatus of the adjective-noun pair (Dunning, 1993;Daille, 1996).
If we assume that plausibility dif-ferences between strong tea and powerful tea orguilty verdict and guilty cat reflect differences incollocational status (i.e., appearing together moreoften than expected by their individual occur-rence frequencies), as opposed to being semanticin nature, then the log-likelihood ratio may alsopredict adjective-noun plausibility.5.
Selectional association.
Finally, we evaluateplausibility ratings against Resnik's (1993) mea-sure of selectional association.
This measureis attractive because it combines statisticaland knowledge-based methods.
By exploiting aknowledge-based taxonomy, it can capture con-ceptual information about lexical items and hencecan make predictions about word combinationswhich have not been seen in the corpus.In the following section we describe our method foreliciting plausibility judgements for adjective-nouncombinations.
Section 3 reports the results of using thefive corpus-based models as predictors of adjective-noun plausibility.
Finally, section 4 offers some dis-cussion of future work, and section 5 concluding re-marks.2 Collecting Plausibi l i ty Rat ingsIn order to evaluate the different corpus-based mod-els of adjective-noun plausibility introduced above,we first needed to establish an independent measureof plausibility.
The standard approach used in ex-perimental psycholinguistics is to elicit judgementsfrom human subjects; in this section we describe ourmethod for assembling the set of experimental materi-als and collecting plausibility ratings for these stimuli.2.1 MethodMaterials and Design.
The ideal test of any ofthe proposed models of adjective-noun plausibilitywill be with randomly-chosen materials.
We chose30 adjectives according to a set of minimal crite-ria (detailed below), and paired each adjective witha noun selected randomly from three different fre-quency ranges, which were defined by co-occurrencecounts in the 100 million word British National Cor-pus (BNC; Burnard (1995)).
The experimental designthus consisted of one factor, Frequency Band, withthree levels (High, Medium, and Low).We chose the adjectives to be minimally ambigu-ous: each adjective had exactly two senses accordingto WordNet (Miller et al, 1990) and was unambigu-ously tagged as "adjective" 98.6% of the time, mea-sured as the number of different part-of-speech tagsassigned to the word in the BNC.
The 30 adjectivesranged in BNC frequency from 1.9 to 49.1 per million.We identified adjective-noun pairs by using Gsearch(Corley et al, 1999), a chart parser which detects yn-tactic patterns in a tagged corpus by exploiting a user-specified context free grammar and a syntactic query.Gsearch was run on a lemmatised version of the BNCso as to compile a comprehensive corpus count of allnouns occurring in a modifier-head relationship witheach of the 30 adjectives.
Examples of the syntac-tic patterns the parser identified are given in Table 1.From the syntactic analysis provided by the parserwe extracted a table containing the adjective and thehead of the noun phrase following it.
In the case ofcompound nouns, we only included sequences of two31Proceedings of EACL '99nouns, and considered the rightmost occurring noun asthe head.From the retrieved adjective-noun pairs, we re-moved all pairs where the noun had a BNC frequencyof less than 10 per million, as we wanted to reducethe risk of plausibility ratings being influenced by thepresence of a noun unfamiliar to the subjects.
Finally,for each adjective we divided the set of pairs into three"bands" (High, Medium, and Low), based on an equaldivision of the range of log-transformed co-occurrencefrequency, and randomly chose one noun from eachband.
Example stimuli are shown in Table 2.
The meanlog co-occurrence frequencies were 3.839, 2.066 and.258, for the High, Medium, and Low groups, respec-tively.30 filler items were also included, in order to en-sure subjects produced a wide range of plausibilityratings.
These consisted of 30 adjective-noun combi-nations that were not found in a modifier-head relationin the BNC, and were also judged highly implausibleby the authors.Procedure.
The experimental paradigm was mag-nitude estimation (ME), a technique standardly usedin psychophysics to measure judgements of sensorystimuli (Stevens, 1975), which Bard et al (1996) andCowart (1997) have applied to the elicitation of lin-guistic judgements.
The ME procedure requires ub-jects to estimate the magnitude of physical stimuli byassigning numerical values proportional to the stimu-lus magnitude they perceive.
In contrast to the 5- or7-point scale conventionally used to measure humanintuitions, ME employs an interval scale, and thereforeproduces data for which parametric nferential statis-tics are valid.ME requires ubjects to assign numbers to a seriesof linguistic stimuli n a proportional fashion.
Subjectsare first exposed to a modulus item, which they assignan arbitrary number.
All other stimuli are rated pro-portional to the modulus.
In this way, each subject canestablish their own rating scale, thus yielding maxi-mally fine-graded ata and avoiding the known prob-lems with the conventional ordinal scales forlinguisticdata (Bard et al, 1996; Cowart, 1997; Schfitze, 1996).In the present experiment, subjects were presentedwith adjective-noun pairs and were asked to rate thedegree of adjective-noun fit proportional to a modulusitem.
The experiment was carried out using WebExp,a set of Java-Classes for administering psycholinguis-tic studies over the Word-Wide Web (Keller et al,1998).
Subjects first saw a set of instructions that ex-plained the ME technique and included some exam-pies, and had to fill in a short questionnaire includingbasic demographic nformation.
Each subject saw all120 items used in the experiment (3 x 30 experimentalitems and 30 fillers).Subjects.
The experiment was completed by 24 un-paid volunteers, all native speakers of English.
Sub-jects were recruited via postings to local Usenet news-groups.2.2 Results and DiscussionAs is standard in magnitude estimation studies, statis-tical tests were done using geometric means to nor-malise the data (the geometric mean is the mean ofthe logarithms of the ratings).
An analysis of vari-ance (ANOVA) indicated that the Frequency Band ef-fect was significant, in both by-subjects and by-itemsanalyses: FI(2, 46) = 79.09, p < .001; F2(2, 58) =19.99, p < .001.
The geometric mean of the ratingsfor adjective-noun combinations in the High band was2.966, compared to Medium items at 2.660 and Lowpairs at 2.271.1 Post-hoc Tukey tests indicated that thedifferences between all pairs of conditions were sig-nificant at o~ = .01, except for the difference betweenthe High and Medium bands in the by-items analysis,which was significant at o~ = .05.
These results areperhaps unsurprising: pairs that are more familiar arerated as more plausible than combinations that are lessfamiliar.
In the next section we explore the linear re-lationship between plausibility and co-occurrence fre-quency further, using correlation analysis.3 Corpus-based Modell ing3.1 MethodWe correlated rated plausibility (Plaus) with thefollowing five corpus-based variables: (1) log-transformed co-occurrence frequency (CoocF), mea-sured as the number of times the adjective-noun pairoccurs in the BNC; (2) log-transformed noun fre-quency (NounF), measured as the number of times thehead noun occurs in the BNC; (3) conditional prob-ability (CondP) of the noun given the adjective s-timated as shown in equation (2); (4) collocationalstatus, 2 estimated using the log-likelihood statistic(LLRatio); and (5) Resnik's measure of selectional s-sociation (SelAssoc), which measures the semantic fitof a particular semantic lass c as an argument to apredicate pi.
The selectional ssociation between classc and predicate Pi is given in equations (3) and (4).More specifically, selectional association representsthe contribution of a particular semantic lass c to thetotal quantity of information provided by a predicateabout the semantic lass of its argument, when mea-sured as the relative ntropy between the prior distri-I For comparison, the filler items had a mean rating of.998.2Mutual information, though potentially of interest as ameasure of collocational status, was not tested due to itswell-known property of overemphasising the significance ofrare events (Church and Hanks, 1990).32Proceedings of EACL '99Pattern Exampleadjective noun educational materialadjective specifier noun usual weekly classesadjective noun noun environmental health officersTable 1: Example of noun-adjective patternsCo-occurrence Frequency BandAdjective High l Medium I Lowhungry animal 1.79 pleasure 1.38 application 0guilty verdict 3.91 secret 2.56 cat 0temporary job 4.71 post 2.07 cap .69naughty girl 2.94 dog 1.6 lunch .69Table 2: Example stimuli (with log co-occurrence fr quencies in the BNC)bution of classes p(c) and the posterior distributionp(c I pi) of the argument classes for a particular pred-icate Pi.f (adjective, noun)(2) P(noun l adjective) = f (adjective)(3) A(pi, c) = I .
e(c I Pi)" log P(c I Pi_______~)rli P(c)(4) rli=~-~P(clpi).logP(Cplc;i)CIn the case of adjective-noun combinations, the se-lectional association measures the semantic fit of anadjective and each of the semantic lasses of thenouns it co-occurs with.
We estimated the probabilitiesP(c I Pi) and P(c) similarly to Resnik (1993) by us-ing relative frequencies from the BNC, together withWordNet (Miller et al, 1990) as a source of taxo-nomic semantic lass information.
Although the se-lectional association is a function of the predicate andall semantic classes it potentially selects for, followingResnik's method for verb-object evaluation, we com-pared human plausibility judgements with the max-imum value for the selectional association for eachadjective-noun combination.Table 3 shows the models' predictions for threesample stimuli.
The first row contains the geometricmean of the subjects' responses.3.2 ResultsThe five corpus-based variables were submitted to acorrelation analysis (see Tables 5 and 4).
The highestcorrelation with judged plausibility was obtained withthe familiarity of the adjective-noun combination (asoperationalised by corpus co-occurrence frequency).Three other variables were also significantly corre-lated with plausibility ratings: the conditional prob-ability P(noun \[ adjective), the log-likelihood ratio,and Resnik's electional ssociation measure.
We dis-cuss each predictor variable in more detail:I.
Familiarity of adjective-noun pair.
Log-transformed corpus co-occurrence frequencywas significantly correlated with plausibility(Pearson r = .570, n = 90, p < .01).
Thisverifies the Frequency Band effect discoveredby the ANOVA, in an analysis which comparesthe individual co-occurrence frequency for eachitem with rated plausibility, instead of collapsing30 pairs together into an equivalence class.Familiarity appears to be a strong determinant ofadjective-noun plausibility.2.
Familiarity of head noun.
Log frequency ofthe head noun was not significantly correlatedwith plausibility (r = .098), which suggeststhat adjective-noun plausibility judgements arenot influenced by noun familiarity.3.
Conditional probability.
The probability of thenoun given the adjective was significantly cor-related with plausibility (r = .220, p < .05).This is unsurprising, as conditional probabilitywas also correlated with co-occurrence fr quency(r = .497, p < .01).4.
Collocational status.
The log-likelihood statis-tic yielded a significant correlation with plausi-bility (r = .350, p < .01), a fact that supportsthe collocational nature of plausible adjective-noun combinations.
The log-likelihood ratio wasin turn correlated with co-occurrence frequency(r = .725, p < .01) and conditional probability(r = .405, p < .01).5.
Selectional ssociation.
Resnik's measure of se-lectional association was also significantly corre-lated with plausibility (r = -.269, p < .05).33Proceedings of EACL '99PlausCoocFNounFCondPLLRatioSelAssoc1\[ hungry animal hungry application hungry pleasure3.02i .799.63.00326.81.51.461.389.69.00214.33.51.3108.67.00052.9.22Table 3: Models' prediction for hungry and its three paired noun headsHowever, it should be noted that selectional s-sociation was negatively correlated with plausi-bility, although Resnik found the measure waspositively correlated with the judged plausibil-ity of verb-object ombinations, consistent withits information-theoretic motivation.
Resnik'smetric was also negatively correlated with co-occurrence frequency (r = -.226, p < .05), butthere was no correlation with noun frequency,conditional probability, or log-likelihood ratio.Since several of the corpus-based variables were in-tercorrelated, we also calculated the squared semipar-tial correlations between plausibility and each corpus-based variable.
This allows the unique relationship be-tween each predictor and plausibility (removing theeffects of the other independent variables) to be deter-mined.
Co-occurrence frequency accounted uniquelyfor 15.52% of the variance in plausibility ratings,while noun frequency, conditional probability, log-likelihood ratio, and selectional ssociation accountedfor .51%, .53%, .41% and 1.7% of the variance, re-spectively.
This confirms co-occurrence frequency asthe best predictor of adjective-noun plausibility.One explanation for the negative correlation be-tween selectional association and plausibility, alsopointed out by Resnik, is the difference betweenverb-object and adjective-noun combinations: com-binations of the latter type are more lexical thanconceptual in nature and hence cannot be accountedfor on purely semantic or syntactic grounds.
Theabstraction provided by a semantic taxonomy is atodds with the idiosyncratic (i.e., lexical) nature ofadjective-noun co-occurrences.
Consider for instancethe adjective hungry.
The class (entity) yields thehighest selectional association value for the high-est rated pair hungry animal.
But (entity) alsoyields the highest association for the lowest rated pairhungry application (A(hungry, (ent i ty})  = .50in both cases).
The highest association for hungrypleasure, on the other hand, is given by the class(act)  (A(hungry, (act))  = .22).
This demonstrateshow the method tends to prefer the most frequentclasses in the taxonomy (e.g., (ent i ty ) ,  (act))  overless frequent, but intuitively more plausible classes(e.g., (feeling) for pleasure and (use} for appli-cation).This is a general problem with the estimation of theprobability of a class of a given predicate in Resnik'smethod, as the probability is assumed to be uniformfor all classes of a given noun with which the predicateco-occurs.
Although the improvements suggested byRibas (1994) try to remedy this by taking the differentsenses of a given word into account and implement-ing selectional restrictions in the form of weighted is-junctions, the experiments reported here indicate thatmethods based on taxonomic knowledge have difficul-ties capturing the idiosyncratic (i.e., lexicalist) natureof adjective-noun combinations.Finally, idiosyncrasies in WordNet itself influencethe performance of Resnik's model.
One problemis that sense distinctions in WordNet axe often toofine-grained (Palmer (1999) makes a similar observa-tion).
Furthermore, there is considerable r dundancyin the definition of word senses.
Consider the nounapplication: it has 27 classes in WordNet which in-clude (code), (coding system), (software),(communication}, (writing) and (writtencommunication}.
It is difficult o see how (code}or (coding system} is not (software} or(writing) is not (written communication).The fine granularity and the degree of redundancy inthe taxonomy bias the estimation of the frequency of agiven class.
Resnik's model cannot distinguish classeswhich are genuinely frequent from classes which areinfrequent but yet overly specified.4 Future WorkAlthough familiarity of the adjective-noun combina-tion proved to be the most predictive measure ofjudged plausibility, it is obvious that this measure willfail for adjective-noun pairs that never co-occur at allin the training corpus.
Is a zero co-occurrence ountmerely the result of insufficient evidence, or is it areflection of a linguistic constraint?
We plan to con-duct another rating experiment, this time with a selec-tion of stimuli that have a co-occurrence frequency ofzero in the BNC.
These data will allow a further testof Resnik's electional ssociation measure.34Proceedings of EACL '99II Plaus t CoocF I NounF I CondP IMin .770 0 6.988 .0002Max 3.240 5.037 11.929 .2139Mean 2.632 2.054 9.411 .0165Std Dev .529 1.583 1.100 .0312LLRatio SelAssoc.02 .1001734.88 !.000176.24 .288334.23 .170Table 4: Descriptive statistics for the six experimental variablesCoocFNounFCondPLLRatioSelAssocPlaus.570**.098.220*.350**-.269*CoocF.221".497**.725**-.226*NounF I CondP.008.001-.191.405**-.097LLRatio.015*p < .05 (2-tailed) **p < .01 (2-tailed)Table 5: Correlation matrix for plausibility and the five corpus-based variablesWe also plan to investigate the application ofsimilarity-based smoothing (Dagan et ai., 1999) tozero co-occurrence ounts, as this method is specif-ically aimed at distinguishing between unobservedevents which are likely to occur in language fromthose that are not.
Plausibility ratings provide a suit-able test of the psychological validity of co-occurrencefrequencies "recreated" with this method.5 ConclusionsThis paper explored the determinants of linguisticplausibility, a concept hat is potentially relevant forlexical choice in natural language generation systems.Adjective-noun plausibility served as a test bed for anumber of corpus-based models of linguistic plausi-bility.
Plausibility judgements were obtained from hu-man subjects for 90 randomly selected adjective-nounpairs.
The ratings revealed a clear effect of familiarityof the adjective-noun pair (operationalised by corpusco-occurrence frequency).In a correlation analysis we compared judged plau-sibility with the predictions of five corpus-based vari-ables.
The highest correlation was obtained with theco-occurrence frequency of the adjective-noun pair.Conditional probability, the log-likelihood ratio, andResnik's (1993) selectional ssociation measure werealso significantly correlated with plausibility ratings.The correlation with Resnik's measure was negative,contrary to the predictions of his model.
This points toa problem with his technique for estimating word classfrequencies, which is aggravated by the collocationalnature of noun-adjective combinations.Overall, the results confirm the strongly lexicalistand collocational nature of adjective-noun combina-tions.
This fact could be exploited in a generationsystem by taking into account corpus co-occurrencecounts for adjective-noun pairs (which can be obtainedstraightforwardly) during lexical choice.
Future re-search as to identify how this approach can be gener-alised to unseen data.AcknowledgementsThe authors acknowledge the support of the Alexan-der S. Onassis Foundation (Lapata), the UK Economicand Social Research Council (Keller, Lapata), the Nat-ural Sciences and Engineering Research Council ofCanada, and the ORS Awards Scheme (McDonald).ReferencesEllen Gurman Bard, Dan Robertson, and AntonellaSorace.
1996.
Magnitude stimation of linguisticacceptability.
Language, 72(1):32-68.Lou Burnard, 1995.
Users Guide for the British Na-tional Corpus.
British National Corpus Consor-tium, Oxford University Computing Service.Kenneth Ward Church and Patrick Hanks.
1990.Word association norms, mutual informations,and lexicography.
Computational Linguistics,16(1):22-29.Martin Corley, Steffan Corley, Matthew W. Crocker,Frank Keller, and Shari Trewin, 1999.
GsearchUser Manual.
Human Communication ResearchCentre, University of Edinburgh.Wayne Cowart.
1997.
Experimental Syntax: ApplyingObjective Methods to Sentence Judgments.
SagePublications, Thousand Oaks, CA.D.
A. Cruse.
1986.
Lexical Semantics.
Cam-bridge Textbooks in Linguistics.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press, Cambridge.35Proceedings of EACL '99Ido Dagan, Lillian Lee, and Fernando Pereira.
1999.Similarity-based models of word cooccurrenceprobabilities.
Machine Learning, 34(1).B6atrice Daille.
1996.
Study and implementationof combined techniques for automatic extraction ofterminology.
In Judith Klavans and Philip Resnik,editors, The Balancing Act: Combining Symbolicand Statistical Approaches to Language, pages 49-66.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Ted Dunning.
1993.
Accurate methods for the statis-tics of surprise and coincidence.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19( 1 ):61-74.Susan M. Garnsey, NeaI J. Pearlmutter, Elisabeth M.Myers, and Melanie A. Lotocky.
1997.
The contri-butions of verb bias and plausibility to the compre-hension of temporarily ambiguous sentences.
Jour-nal of Memory and Language, 37(1 ):58-93.V.
M. Holmes, L. Stowe, and L. Cupples.
1989.Lexical expectations in parsing complement-verbsentences.
Journal of Memory and Language,28(6):668-689.Frank Keller, Martin Corley, Steffan Corley, LarsKonieczny, and Amalia Todirascu.
1998.
Web-Exp: A Java toolbox for web-based psychologicalexperiments.
Technical Report HCRC/TR-99, Hu-man Communication Research Centre, Universityof Edinburgh.Kevin Knight and Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou.
1995.Two-level, many paths generation.
In Proceedingsof the 33rd Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 252-260, Cam-bridge, MA.Irene Langkilde and Kevin Knight.
1998, Gener-ation that exploits corpus-based statistical knowl-edge.
In Proceedings of the 17th International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics and 36th An-nual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 704-710, Montr6al.George A. Miller, Richard Beckwith, ChristianeFellbaum, Derek Gross, and Katherine J. Miller.1990.
Introduction to WordNet: an on-line lexicaldatabase.
International Journal of Lexicography,3(4):235-244.Gregory L. Murphy.
1990.
Noun phrase interpreta-tion and noun combination.
Journal of Memory andLanguage, 29(3):259-288.Martha Palmer.
1999.
Consistent criteria for sensedistinctions.
Computers and the Humanities, to ap-pear.Martin J. Pickering and Martin J. Traxler.
1998.
Plau-sibility and recovery from garden paths: An eye-tracking study.
Journal of Experimental Psychol-ogy: Learning Memory and Cognition, 24(4):940-961.Philip Stuart Resnik.
1993.
Selection and Informa-tion: A Class-Based Approach to Lexical Relation-ships.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Pennsylvania.Francesc Ribas.
1994.
On learning more appropri-ate selectional restrictions.
In Proceedings of the32nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, Las Cruces, NM.Carson T. Schiitze.
1996.
The Empirical Base of Lin-guistics: Grammaticality Judgments and Linguis-tic Methodology.
University of Chicago Press,Chicago.Frank Smadja.
1991.
Macrocoding the lexiconwith co-occurrence knowledge.
In Uri Zernik, ed-itor, Lexical Acquisition: Using Online Resourcesto Build a Lexicon, pages 165-189.
Erlbaum, Hills-dale, NJ.Stanley S. Stevens, editor.
1975.
Psychophysics:Introduction to its Perceptual Neural and SocialProspects.
John Wiley, New York.36
