Proceedings ofEACL '99Investigating NLG Architectures:taking style into considerationDaniel S. PaivaInformation Technology Research InstituteUniversity of BrightonLewes RoadBrighton BN2 4GJ, UKDaniel.Paiva@itri.brighton.ac.ukAbstractIn this paper we propose a methodologyfor investigating the relationship betweenarchitectures of natural anguage genera-tion (NLG) systems and stylistic proper-ties of texts.
Biber's (1988) methodologyis used to obtain both the characterisationof style of our corpus and the division ofthe corpus into sets of linguisticallysimilar texts.
These sets will be used forstudying the architectural spects.1 IntroductionWe started our research with a survey of 19 ap-plied natural anguage generation (NLG) systems(Paiva, 1998) and noticed that:?
almost all the systems followed a pipelinemodel;?
there was a general agreement on the coreNLG tasks that a system should perform(e.g., aggregation, lexicalisation, etc.);?
the surveyed systems mainly differed onthe order the NLG tasks are executed (seeCahill et al, 1999);We also noticed that the texts produced by thevarious systems were apparently quite differentstylistically (although we did not have a formalmethod to measure how much different theywere) and, in order to explain how this variety oftexts was obtained with the same type of archi-tecture (i.e., pipeline), we have put forward thehypothesis that the order in which the NLG tasksare executed influences the kind of text that canbe obtained, i.e.
a certain order would facilitatethe generation of a certain type of text whilstanother would not.This hypothesis goes in line with other re-searchers' results which purport to show thatarchitectural spects of a NLG system depend onthe characteristics of the text to be generated andvice versa.
For instance:237?
Robin (1994) argues for a revision-incremental rchitecture for the generationof structurally complex text with floatingcontent - -  i.e., content that can appearanywhere in the text and is opportunisti-cally realised only if stylistic factors of thesurrounding text allow;?
Inui and colleagues (1992) conclude thatin order to avoid the generation of textwith ambiguous and complex sentences arevision architecture is necessary, with therevision module placed at the end of thegeneration process (i.e., after the linguisticrealisation)l;?
Reiter (ms.) reports that pipeline architec-tures cannot deal with constraints on thelength of a text.It is difficult however to reconcile their resultsin a unified perspective since each of these re-ported works started with a different perspectiveand, generally, had different aims in mind.We believe that it is possible to relate thosecharacteristics of text presented above (such ascomplexity, ambiguity and sentence length) 2 tostyle, 3 and that we can gain insight into NLG ar-chitectures having a systematic way to classifytexts by their stylistic properties o that we cananalyse the architectural aspects in relation tothis stylistic classification.We then start with the point of view that it isreasonable to assume that certain styles of textdemand a more specialised type of architecturethan others (for example, a revision versus apipeline architecture 4) and our idea is to developa methodology for studying which are the appro-Some aspects related to the complexity of a sentence (e.g.,sentence length) can only be measured precisely when thetext has already been generated.2 For instance, complexity and (lack of) ambiguity arefactors that can be related to the 'clarity" of a text.3 Depending on the definition we assume for it.4 For a classification of NLG architectures, see (De Smedt etal., 1996)Proceedings of EACL '99FORMALITY ~ENESS INTERACINENESS"7" i text type 2~ text type 3text type 1_ - rA BIn this figure, one group expresses texts thatare formal, concise, and not interactive (texttype 1 - -  a possible example is news col-umns in scientific maga2ines).
Another group(text ype 2) expresses texts that are informal,highly concise, and highly interactive (e.g.,short articles in 'IV magazines answeringreaders' questions).
A third one (text ype 3)can be considered neither formal nor infor-mal, is not concise and has a medium valuefor interacfiveness.Figure 1: A flcti~ous example of the charactedsation of text types in terms of three stylistic parameters (A),and the partition of the corpus into three text types (B).priate architectures for the generation of texts ina specific style or more than one style.Hovy (1988) used a similar approach but char-acterised style in such an informal way that itsrelation to architectural aspects was compro-mised; in particular, he could not ensure that hewas not missing important relations betweenstyle and generator decisions s.In this paper we will present a characterisationof style and an approach for dealing with itwhich, we hope, will provide a means to clarifythe interaction between the architectures of NLGsystems and the type of texts they can, or needto, generate.
The paper continues in the follow-ing way: in Section 2 we present the definition ofstyle we are working with and in Section 3 weshow how this characterisation will help us todeal with aspects of architecture.
In Section 4 wediscuss the expected results and, finally, we con-clude by presenting where we are in this process.2 Investigating StyleWe use the term style to signify the variability inthe use of features of a language that can be cor-related with certain types of situation - -  wheresituation can be regarded "as the context withinwhich interaction of 'the speech event' occurs"(Brown and Fraser, 1979; p. 34), involving theparticipants, the setting and the purposes of thecommunication.In order to put this definition to work on ourproblem, first we need to know how to obtain theset of stylistic parameters, i.e., the parametersthat, when varied, will be responsible for pro-ducing texts in different styles.
Secondly, weneed to find a way to group stylistically-similartexts into sets so that we can study the architec-5 "The specific pragmatic \[and stylistic\] features used byPAUL INE are but a first step.
(...) The strategiesPAUL INE uses to link its pragmatic land stylistic\] fea-tures to the actual generator decisions, being depender~.~the definitions of  the features are equally primita;?~ ~(Hovy, 1990; p. 193).tural aspects of each set isolatedly and then try tohave a more general view of how style and NLGarchitectures interact by making a cross-comparison among those isolated analyses.For the first part, there are two approaches inthe literature linking stylistic parameters to char-acteristics of texts.
We have already cited Hovy(1988) and its main problem: the lack of formal-ity.
DiMarco's (1990) approach was to constructa 'stylistic grammar' using the notion of normand deviation from norm (see, e.g., Enkvist(1973)).
While this approach is enough to obtainthe stylistic parameters 6, we think that this char-acterisation brings a problem for grouping textsinto sets - -  it can create only two sets for study-ing: the texts that agree with the norm and thosethat do not.
This can be a problem because, al-though the texts following the norm will com-prise a set of similar texts, those in the 'deviant'set can be so dissimilar that any type of analysisbased on them (and, consequently, its interpreta-tion in architectural terms) is probably doomedto failure.In our approach we will avoid these problemsby following a methodology that can provide twothings: (1) a characterisation f the stylistic pa-rameters of a corpus 7, and (2) a partition of acorpus into sets of linguistically similar texts.
Weare working with Biber's (1988) methodology.From a corpus tagged with a comprehensive s tof linguistic features of English, we obtain thefrequency count associated with each one) Usinga statistical factor analysis, we group the linguis-tic features that co-occur, considering each group6 DiMarco refers to them as 'stylistic goals' .7 Our corpus comprises texts written for two differentaudiences (patients and doctors) o f  more than 250 phar-maceutical products - -  in total it is more than 500 texts.s There are two levels of tagging.
First, the corpus is taggedusing Bri l l 's  (1994) tagger.
Secondly, programs forcounting specif ic configurations of tags are run.
The proc-ess is completely automatic.Proceedings of EACL '99a stylistic parameter 9 that can then be analysed infunctional terms, l?
Several stylistic parameterscan emerge from a corpus, each text of the cor-pus having a specific value for each of them (seean example with three stylistic parameters inFigure l-A).Our interest in Biber's work is also related tohis definition of text types: "the texts within eachtype are maximally similar with respect o theirlinguistic characteristics, while the types aremaximally distinct with respect to their linguisticcharacteristics" (Biber (1995), p. 10).
In order toobtain the text types, a cluster analysis is usedand results in the partitioning of the corpus (i.e.,the texts with similar values for all the stylisticparameters will be grouped in a partition (seeFigure I-B)).
Following this procedure will al-low us to analyse aspects of architecture for eachtext type (i.e., each partition) in isolation and,more importantly, make cross-comparisonsamong these analyses.3 Relating Style to ArchitectureWe are using NLG tasks as the basis for our ap-proach to relate style to NIX3 architectures.
Weare working with a set of core NLG task that wehave found to be stable: all of them occurred inalmost all the systems we surveyed (Paiva,1998).
The set comprises the following tasks:content determination, rhetorical structuring,lexicalisation, intra and inter-sentential ordering,referring expression generation, aggregation,segmentation, and linguistic realisation (for anexplanation about those task, see Cahill et al,1999).
~lPart of the process for relating style to archi-tecture is depicted in Figure 2.
As shown, westart by analysing the NLG tasks that are respon-sible for the presence of a specific linguisticfeature (arrow B).
The association of stylisticparameters with linguistic features obtained inthe corpus analysis (arrow A) will be used toobserve which NLG tasks are responsible for9 Biber efers to this as a 'dimension ofregister variation'.raThe assumption is that strong co-occurrence patterns oflinguistic features mark underlying functional dimensions(Biber, 1988; p. 13).
Notice that he name of each stylisticparameter, per se, means nothing; it is the linguistic fea-tures grouped in each stylistic parameter that are impor-tant!
Nonetheless, it is easier to refer to a stylistic pa-rameter by its name than to the set of linguistic features itrepresents.
So below we say that a certain text is formal,when, in fact, we want o say that it has certain linguisticfeatures uch as passives, formal words, conjuncts, etc.~ We are aware that some of those tasks can be subdividedand that some authors assume different names for2l~same task.
If necessary, we will do extensions tothis set.specific values of a stylistic parameter (ar-row C).
12Then we will observe the combinations of theNLG tasks in accordance with each text type(partition) obtained in the corpus analysis.
Thiswill give us an idea of which NLG tasks are mostresponsible for (the linguistic features associatedwith) the different ext types; also, it will showus how the tasks are working (because of thelinks to the linguistic features (see Figure 2)).The result of this process will be sets of NLGtasks for each text type.? )
/  ?Eg.:?
conjuncls (~g., "hoMeveC','incom~=~, "~ ~=amp~, ...)Figure 2: Relating values of style parameters to NLG tasksa fictitious example supposing 'formality' as a stylistic pa-rameter.Our work then will be to observe the NLG tasks(inside each text type first, but making cross-comparisons among text types afterwards) at-tacking the questions related to architecture, i.e.,'which kind of modularisation and interactionbetween modules is necessary/appropriate','which resources are used', 'what kind of datathe modules/tasks exchange', etc.We will investigate architectural decisions atthree different levels:?
at the task level: how can a certain task bemade sensitive to values of stylistic pa-rameters??
at the level o f  tasks interaction: is there anatural ordering of tasks for a certain typeof text?
13?
at the global level: assuming that tasks arenormally encapsulated inside modules,what characteristics of texts force the in-teraction between modules to be more in-tense?~2The statistical method by which arrow A in Figure 2 isderived gives a measure of how important the linguisticfeature isfor a certain stylistic parameter.~SSee Danlos (1984) for examples of how the order ofexecution of tasks can favour a certain textual result overanother.Proceedings ofEACL '99Faced with this classification we will proposesolutions that can be used in the specification ofan architecture that supports the generation oftexts in different styles.
We expect hese solu-tions to lead to useful guidelines for helping de-signers of NLG systems to choose the appropriatearchitecture for the type of text they want theirsystem to generate.4 DiscussionOne may question why we are repeating Biber'sexperiment, when he has already obtained a setof stylistic parameters and a set of text types.
Itis possible that other results emerge from apply-ing his methodology to our corpus, and the onlyway to know this will be by re-doing the analy-sis.
It is also possible that we obtain a subset ofhis results, which will at least make our task amore manageable one.We believe that our result will be of generalutility.
Although the precise set of stylistic pa-rameters may be dependent on the corpus one isusing, we expect hat the set of valid task inter-action patterns will be restricted, and that the texttypes emerging from our study will encompassmost of the valid patterns.
Our programs forcounting the linguistic features will be madeavailable for others to use.5 ConclusionIn this paper we propose a methodology for in-vestigating the relationship between architecturesof NLG systems and stylistic properties of thetexts they can generate.
Although we are stillundertaking the first steps of our methodology(the corpus analysis), we believe that this meth-odology will allow us to test the hypothesis re-garding the order of execution of NLG tasks, andat least provide initial indicators on the relation-ship between classes of architectures and thestyle of generated texts.6 AcknowledgementsI would like to thanks Donia Scott, Roger Evans,Richard Power, Kees van Deemter, and two anony-mous reviewers for their comments on this paper.7 ReferencesBiber, D. (1988) Variation across speech and writing.Cambridge University Press.Biber, D. (1995) Dimensions of register variation: Across-linguistic comparison.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Brill, E. (1994) Some advances in rule-based part ofspeech tagging.
In Procs.
ofAAAI'94, Seatle.Brown and Fraser (1979) Speech as a marker ofsituation.
In (eds.)
Sheerer, K.R., and Giles, H.,240Social markers in speech.
Cambridge UniversityPress, pp.
33-62.Cahill, L., Doran, C., Evans, R., Mellish, C., Paiva,D., Reape, M., Scott, D., and Tipper, N. (1999) Insearch of a reference architecture for NLG systems.Accepted for EWNLG'99.Danlos, L. (1984) Conceptual and Linguistic Deci-sions in Generation.
In Procs.
of the lOth Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguistics(COLING'84).
Stanford University, California,USA, pp.
501-504.De Smedt, K., Horacek, H., and Zock, M. (1996)Architectures for Natural Language Generation:Problems and Perspectives.
In Adorni, G., andZock, M.
(Eds.
), Trends in Natural Language Gen-eration: an Artificial Intelligence Perspective,Springer Verlag, New York.DiMarco, C. (1990) Computational stylistics for natu-ral language translation.
PhD Dissertation.
Tech-nical report CSRI-239, University of Toronto.Enkvist, N. E. (1973) Linguistic Stylistics.
Mouton.Hovy, E. (1988) Generating Natural Language underPragmatic Constraints.
Lawrence Erlbaum Asso-ciates.Hovy, E. (1990) Pragmatics and Natural LanguageGeneration.
Artificial Intelligence 43, pp.
153-197.Inui, K., Tokunaga, T., and Tanaka, H. (1992) TextRevision: A Model and Its Implementation.
IDale, R., Hovy, E., R6sner, D., and Stock, O.,(eds.)
Aspects of Automated Natural LanguageGeneration, Lectures Notes in Artificial Intelli-gence 587, Springer-Verlag.Paiva, D. (1998) A Survey of Applied Natural Lan-guage Generation Systems.
Technical report ITRI-98-03, Information Technology Research Institute(ITRI), University of Brighton.Reiter, E. (ms.) A Problem with Pipelines.
Dept.
ofComputer Science.
University of Aberdeen.Robin, J.
(1994) Revision-based generation of naturallanguage summaries providing historical back-ground: corpus-based analysis, design, implemen-tation and evaluation.
Ph.D. Thesis.
CUCS-034-94, Columbia University.
