Proceedings of EACL '99Focusing on focus: a formalizationYah ZuoLetteren/GM/CLSPostbus 901535000LE TilburgThe Netherlandsyzuo@kub.nlAbstractWe present an operable definition of focuswhich is argued to be of a cognito-pragmaticnature and explore how it is determined indiscourse in a formalized manner.
For thispurpose, a file card model of discourse modeland knowledge store is introduced enabling thedecomposition a d formal representation f itsdetermination process as a programmablealgorithm (FDA).
Interdisciplinary evidencefrom social and cognitive psychology is citedand the prospect of the integration of focus viaFDA as a discourse-level construct into speechsynthesis systems, in particular, concept-to-speech systems, is also briefly discussed.1.
IntroductionThe present paper aims to propose a workingdefinition of focus and thereupon explore how focusis determined in discourse; in doing so, it hopes tocontribute to the potential integration of a focusmodule into speech synthesis ystems, in particular,concept-to-speech ones.
The motivation largelyderives from the observation that focus, thoughrecognized as 'the meeting point of linguistics andartificial intelligence' (Hajicova, 1987) carryingsignificant discourse information closely related toprosody generation, has nonetheless appeared evasiveand intractable to formalization.
Most current speechsynthesis ystems imply take focus as the point ofdeparture in an a priori manner whilst few havelooked into the issue of how focus occurs as it is,namely, how focus is determined (by the speakerpresumably) in the discourse.
We aim to redress thisinadequacy by first defining focus as a cognito-pragmatic ategory, which then enables a formal andprocedural characterization of focus determinationprocess in discourse, captured as focus determinationalgorithm (FDA).
The FDA to be proposed is largelybased on human-human dialogue (though spaceconsideration precludes the full presentation of data),but is believed to be applicable to human-computerinteraction as well.
The study is characterized by itsinterdisciplinary approach, combining insights andinputs from linguistics, neuroscience and socialpsychology.2.
Defining focus: a eognito-pragmatiecategoryThe term focus has been used in various senses, atleast six of which can be identified, i.e., phonological(Pierrehumbert, 1980; Ladd, 1996), semantic(Jackendoff, 1972; Prince, 1985), syntactic(Rochemont, 1986), cognitive (Sanford & Garrod,1981; Musseler et al, 1995), pragmatic (Halliday,1967), and AI-focus (Grosz & Sidner, 1986) ~.
Weargue that, first, these multiple uses of focus, thoughresulting in conceptual confusion, hint at the centralstatus of the notion in core as well as peripherallinguistics.
Second, focus as occurs in discourse isbest captured by referring to both the interlocutors'cognitive computation and constant interaction, inaccordance with the dual (i.e., cognitive andpragmatic) nature of discourse per se (Nuyts, 1992).Of the six above-mentioned senses, the cognitive andpragmatic ones serve as the basis for the presentdefinition, although the caveat is immediately madethat the two aspects are to be fully integrated ratherthan merely added together.
Moreover, neither is to beadopted blindly given certain shortcomings ofprevious accounts of each, such as a generalvagueness militating against their effectiveapplication in speech technology.In this connection, we define focus as a cognito-pragmatic ategory, calling for the introduction of thecognitive construct of discourse model in relation toknowledge store.
Presumably, every typical adultcommunicator has at his/her disposal a vast andextensive knowledge store relating to the scenes andevents occurring in the world he/she is in.
Thecontents of the store are acquired via direct perceptionof the environment and, less directly, communicationwith others or reflection upon past acquisitions.Discourse ntails the employment and deployment ofthe knowledge store, but in a specific discourse only asubset of it deemed relevant to the on-going discourseis incurred, given the economy principle of humancognitive system (Wilkes, 1997).
We refer to thissubset of knowledge store (KS) in operation for and ina given discourse as discourse model (DM) and holdit as bearing directly on focus.
Following Levelt(1989:114), DM is 'a speaker's record of what hebelieves to be shared knowledge about he content ofthe discourse as it evolved' (my italics).
Thus, it is acognitive construct incorporating an interactivedimension of speaker-hearer mutual assessment; i  isalso an ongoing, dynamic one being constantlyThough it needs to be cautioned that such a division into these sixsenses is more an analytic expedient than implying there is clear-cutboundaries between them.257Proceedings of EACL '99updated as discourse progresses.
Similarly, the DMand the KS are related in a dynamic way allowing forpotentially constant, on-line interaction during thediscourse which we refer to as 'dynamic inclusion'.This implies that when 'off-l ine' (i.e., when nodiscourse is actively going on), DM is included in KS,as indicated in Figure 1 below.
By comparison, when'on-line' (i.e., when participants are engaged in adiscourse), the dynamic dimension becomes evidentin both their inter-relation and the internal structuringof  DM, as illustrated in Figure 2.Figure l:Off-line' stateof DM in relation to KSsAz ~/AZFigure 2"On-line' state of DMin relation to KS; AZ, SAZ & IAZIAZFigure 2 deserves more explanation as the on-line state of and potential operations on the DM serveas the basis for focus determination in actualdiscourse.
We argue that DM is crucially structuredinternally and for its representation we adopt the filecard model based on the file metaphor in Heim (1983)(cf.
also Reinhart, 1981; Vallduvi, 1992; Erteschik-Shir, 1997).
A DM consists of a stack of  file cards,and each card contains (maximally) three categoriesof  items, viz., discourse referent (serving as index toand address of the card), attribute(s) and link(s), thefirst being obligatory whilst the latter two optional.Moreover, a card has one and only one referent butmay have none, one or more attributes and links.Borrowing the notion of activation from Chafe (1987),we distinguish three zones, i.e., activated zone (AZ),semi-activated zone (SAZ) and inactivated zone (IAZ),within the DM 2.
Similar to the case of the DM-KSrelation, the boundaries between the three zones arefluid rather than fixed, as is evident in Figure 2.Armed with these machinery, we thus definefocus as 'whatever is in the activated zone (AZ)',  or,more precisely, whatever is at th e top of the stack inAZ of the (speaker's version of the hearer's) DM as aresult of immediately recent operations such asretrieval and updating at a given moment in thediscourse (Zuo, 1999).3.
Focus determination algorithm (FDA)Apparently, this definition of focus also renders theprocess of focus determination fairly transparent.
Thepostulation of  DM and KS enables the decompositionand characterization of the focus determinationprocess in an explicit and formalized manner.Discourse is thereby reducible, to a considerableextent, to the operations on the file cards, mostcrucially, adding, updating, locating and relocating ofthe cards across the three zones.
In this vein, a cardthat is newly added to AZ (note not what is in AZ), oran item that is newly entered onto a card already inAZ at a specific moment is assigned focus-hood, / fand only ~fthe time interval between current momentand the moment for the addition/entry is shorter than atime threshold set on independent cognitive grounds(see below for more discussion).
This process of focusdetermination can be represented as the followingalgorithm.Focus Determining Algorithm (FDA)1 SET 'file card in AZ (for the hearer)' (AZ (h)) = null2 INPUT (message unit)3 DO4 Evaluator5 Card Manager6 INPUT (message unit)7 UNTIL message unit = ender8 ENDEvaluator9 EXTRACT discourse r ferent (R~), attribute (Ai), and\]orlink (L~) from (the incoming) message unit10 CREATE file card (Ci) indexed by 1~I 1 COMPARE (Ci (= Ri (+ Ai) (+ Li)), {CAz})12 IF Ci ~{CAz}13 THEN14 IF Ci ~ {CsAz}~{C~}15 THEN16 ADD C~to AZ17 RECORD time for addition Ta18 LABEL Ci (with its content: Ri ,  (Ai) , (Li)) FOCUS19 ELSE20 RETRIEVE file card indexed by Ri (Ci') from{Cs~z}w{qAz}21 ADD C\[ to AZ22 RECORD time for retrieval Tr23 LABEL C~' (with its content: R~', (A{), (L\[)) FOCUS24 ELSE25 IDENTIFY Ci" in {C~} indexed by Ri26 COMPARE (Ai, attribute(s) already on Ci" (Ai"))27 IF A i <> Ai"28 THEN29 ADD Ai to Ci"30 RECORD time for addition T a31 LABEL Ai FOCUS32 ELSE33 COMPARE (Li, link(s) already present on C{' (Li"))34 1F Li <> Li"35 THEN36 ADD Li to Ci"37 RECORD time T a38 LABEL L i FOCUSCard Manager39 SET Critical Time Threshold =T t40 RECORD Current Time = T?41 IF file card Ce {C~z} at T?
AND T?- Tr >T tOR T?
- Ta >Tr42 THEN43 DEPOSIT C in IAZ44 ELSE45 IF Ce {CAz} at T?
AND To- Tr- T,46 THEN47 DEPOSIT C in SAZSeveral notes are called for 3.
First, what can be2 Again here we are aware of  the argument that activation is acontinous rather than a discrete concept.Due to space limit we only discuss afew major points here; for anelaborate account of the algorithm, ret~r to Zuo (1999),258Proceedings of EACL '99assigned focus-hood?
Obviously a slick (and vague)'idea or thought' misses the point here.
A look at theinternal organization of the DM again suggests theanswer.
Corresponding tothe content of the file card,four cases can be identified as to what can become thefocus: (1) the discourse referent, (2) the attribute, (3)the link, and (4) the card as a whole.
Note that thisbreakdown analysis meshes well with findings inpsycholinguistic researches, for example, the possiblecandidates for acquiring 'conceptual prominence'distinguished in Levelt (1989:151).
The file cardmodel offers a more rigorous and operable way toaccount for such cases: Lines 16-18 and 20-23respectively capture the above-mentioned cases (1)and (4) (though the former is apparently also a specialtype of case (4)) whilst Lines 29-31 and 36-38respectively represent cases (2) and (3).
Note thatlines 16-18 and 20-23 show that a card may be addedto Az (and hence assigned focus-hood) either adexterno r by retrieving from SAZ or IAZ of the currentDM.Second, a crucial assumption of this algorithm isthat speech planning consists of conceptual planningand linguistic planning proceeding in a sequentialfashion; this is a well-established argument in psycho-linguistics (Garrett, 1980), and the former proceeds ina unit-by-unit fashion (though the picture is morecomplicated for the latter) (Taylor & Taylor, 1990).Hence, the 'message unit' used in this algorithm (seeLines 2, 6, and 9) refers to such planning unit and canbe roughly understood as 'chunk of meaning'; as suchit consists minimally of a referent and an attributewhile the link is optional; The 'ender' in Line 2 refersto the message unit intended by the speaker toterminate his/her current contribution.
Obviously,here the speaker's intention plays a vital role.
Notethat the ender is also a conceptual unit in nature, andwe leave open the question whether such endersconstitute a closed, limited set with a relatively smallnumber ofprototypical units.Third, the formula Ci = R i (+A i) (+L i) in Line 11indicates the make-up of the card, with the bracketsstanding for optionality (see Section 2).
Also in thisline, the function COMPARE (a, b) is defined asCOMPARE a AGAINST b.
{CAz}(and {CsAz}, {C~z} in theremainder of the algorithm) stands for the setcomprised by the file cards already in AZ (or SAZ andIAZ, for that matter) at the current moment.Fourth, Ta (LI7), T, (Ls 22, 36) and To (L39) refer to apoint in time, in comparison with Y t (L38) which is aninterval of time.
They serve as input to the CardManager sub-program which keeps track of the'transportation', i.e., retrieval and deposition, of thecards.
Thus, the RECORD (time) function (Ls 17, 22, 30,and 37), together with the Card Manager, takes care ofthe on-line shuffling and reshuffling of the file cardsand is mainly responsible for the dynamism of DM.Regarding the choice of the threshold time Tt (L39),we argue that it is presumably the critical timeconditioned by the capacity of the working memory;but we leave open its specific value and on whatterms, absolute or relative, it should be defined (fordifferent views, cf.
Carpenter, 1988; Liebert, 1997;Givon, 1983; Barbosa & Bailly, 1994).
At present,the commonly-employed practice (which is also thatadopted here) is to set a time threshold in terms of thelength of some independently delimited discoursesegments (e.g.
those in Rhetoric Structure Theory(Hirscheberg, 1993)).
We admit this inadequacy andwish to address it fully with inputs frominterdisciplinary researches in the future.Finally, the ~Z, SAZ and IaZ in the algorithmrefer to the heater's DM as assessed by the speaker indiscourse, i.e., the speaker's version of the hearer'sDM, as the bearer's true DM is only accessible to s/heher/himself.4.
Evidence from social and cognitivepsychologyCrucially, the validity of FDA is contingent on (i) towhat extent it is possible for the speaker toconceptualize the heater's DM and (ii) on whatindependent grounds is the tripartite division of theDM justified?
For the former question we invoke thenotion of intersubjectivity from social psychology andfor the latter, research findings in cognitivepsychology are cited.Stemming initially f~om the observation i socialpsychology that discourse participants have toconstantly 'put themselves in each other's shoes' inorder to achieve communicative goals (cf.Rommetveit, 1974; Clark, 1985), intersubjectivity isprimarily concerned with perspective-taking, or,perspectivization (Sanders & Spooren 1997).
Itimplies that discourse is a negotiating process and thatunderstanding in discourse has to be sufficientlyintersubjective.
Hence, it is both necessary andpossible for the speaker to assess the hearer's DM, andthis is achieved through intersubjectivity.
Admittedly,this process is not infallible, given Linell's (1995)observation regarding misunderstanding i  discourse;nonetheless, it can be carried out with relativesufficiency which primarily depends on theparticipants' communicative competence and theirexpectation ofthe discourse.A theory of discourse processing must also be atheory of cognition and memory; this is especiallytrue for focus, given its attested relevance to memory.Researches on knowledge storage and processing inhuman memory in cognitive psychology have favoreda dual memory system, i.e.
working memory (WM)and long-term memory (LTM) (Baddeley, 1990) and atripartite taxonomy of LTM into procedural, semantic,and episodic storage systems (Tulving, 1985).
More-over, WM serves as a portal to early episodic memory,and both are characterized by a limited capacity andrapid decay: the content in WM is periodically emptiedinto first, early episodic memory, then long-termepisodic memory system, and thereafter semanticmemory system.
(e.g.
Gathercole & Baddeley, 1993).259Proceedings of EACL '99This representation dovetails nicely with our presentaccount of focus and FDA.
Specifically, a roughparallel may be drawn between, first, WM and AZ,second, early episodic memory and s~ & IAz, third,long-term episodic memory & semantic memory andIAz & KS, and fourth, the dynamic working ofknowledge processing and that of FDA, in particularthe Card Manager which takes charge of the make-upof DM by constantly monitoring the timing andsubsequently shuffling and reshuffling cards.5.
Integration of a focus module into speechsynthesis ystemsFDA, presented here on the basis of an operabledefinition of focus, enables the integration of a focusmodule into speech synthesis ystem; specifically, theoutput of FDA, i.e., the focus pattern of the messageconveyed by the utterance, may be fed into asubsequent accent assignment module, one in thespirit of the Focus-Accent Theory of Dirksen (1992)and Dirksen & Quene (1993).In this way, FDA entertains a great potential forthe integration of discourse-level information intoprosody generation system, and thereby theproduction of more discourse-felicitous prosody.Moreover, given that FDA starts with conceptualplanning of message, its integration is particularlysuitable for Concept-to-speech systems.
As a finalnote, we suggest hat its fundamental rationale isarguably also highly pertinent to Text-to-speechsystems, which, however, cannot be elaborated here.ReferencesBaddely, A.
(1990) Human Memory: Theory andPractice.
Lawrence Erlbaum, Hove.Chafe, W. (1987) Cognitive constraims oninformation flow.
In R. Tomlin, ed., Coherence andGrounding in Discourse.
Benjamins, Amsterdam.Dirksen, A.
(1992) Accenting and deaccenting: Adeclarative approach.
In Proceedings of COLING1992.
Nantes, France.
IPO Ms. 867.Dirksen, A.
& Quene, H. (1993) Prosodic Analysis:the Next Generation.
In "Analysis and Synthesis ofSpeech", V. van Heuven, & L. C. W. Pols, ed., deGruyter, Berlin, pp.
131-146.Erteschik-Shir, N. (1997) The Dynamics of FocusStructure.
CUP, Cambridge.Garrett, M. F. (1980) Levels of Processing in SentenceProduction.
In "Language Production: Vol.
1.Speech and Talk", B. Butterworth, ed., AcademicPress, London.Gathercole, S. E. & Baddeley, A. D. (1993) WorkingMemory and Language.
Lawrence Erlbaum,Hillsdale.Grosz, B.
& Sidner, C. (1986) Attention, Intention,and the Structure of Discourse.
Journal ofComputational Linguistics, 12, 175-204.Hajicova, E. (1987) Focusing: a Meeting Point ofLinguistics and Artificial Intelligence.
In "ArtificialIntelligence.
Vol.
II: Methodology, Systems,Applications", P. Jorrand & V. Sgurev, ed.,260North-Holland, Amsterdam, 311-321.Halliday, M. A. K. (1967) Intonation and Grammarin British English.
de Gruyter, Berlin.Heim, I.
(1983) File Change Semantic and theFamiliarity Theory of Definiteness.
In "Meaning,Use and Interpretation of Language", R. Bauerle,Ch.
Schwarze & A. von Stechow, ed., de Gruyter,Berlin.Ladd, D. R. (1996) Intonational Phonology.
CUP,Cambridge.LeveR, W. J. M. (1989) Speaking.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MIT.Linell, P. (1995) Troubles with Mutualities.
In"Mutualities in dialogue", Markova, I., C.Graumann & K. Foppa, ed., CUP, Cambridge, pp.176-216.Nuyts, J.
(1992) Aspects of a Cognitive-PragmaticTheory of Language.
Benjamins, Amsterdam.Pierrehumbert, J.
(1980) The Phonology andPhonetics of English Intonation.
Ph.D. dissertation.MIT.Prince, E. (1985).
Fancy Syntax and 'SharedKnowledge'.
Journal of Pragmatics, 9, 65-81.Reinhart, T. (1981) Pragmatics and Linguistics: ananalysis of Sentence Topics.
Philosophica, 27, 53-94.Rochemont, M. (1986) Focus in Generative Grammar.Benjamins, Amsterdam.Rommetveit, R. (1974) On Message Structure.
Wiley,New York.Sanders, J.
& Spooren, W. (1997) Perspective,Subjectivity and Modality from a Cognit?aeLinguistic Point of View.
In "Discourse andPerspective in Cognitive Linguistics", W.-A.Liebert, G. Redeker, & L. Waugh, ed., Benjamins,pp.
85-114.Sandford, A. J.
& Garrod, S. C. (1981) UnderstandingWritten Language.
John Wiley & Sons, Chichester.Taylor, I.
& Taylor, N. N. (1990) Psycholinguistics:Learning and Using Language.
Prentice-HallInternational, Inc.Tulving, E. (1985) How Many Memory Systems AreThere?
American Psychologist, 40, 385-398.Vallduvi, E. (1992).
The Informational Component.Garland, New York.Wilkes, A. L. (1997) Knowledge in Minds.Psychology Press, Erlbaum.Zuo, Y.
(1999).
Focusing on focus.
Ph.D. Dissertation.Peking University, China.
