Proceedings of EACL '99Dialogue Processing in a CALL-SystemVeit ReuerInstitut fiir deutsche Sprache und LinguistikHumboldt-Universitgt zu BerlinUnter den Linden 610099 BerlinGERMANYVeit.Reuer@compling.hu-berlin.deAbstractIn a CALL-environment (Computer-assisted language learning) programsshould ideally allow the learner totrain his/her communicative competence,which is one of the main goals of foreignlanguage teaching nowadays.
This canbe reached by allowing learners to useand train their knowledge of a foreignlanguage in realistic dialogue-style xer-cises.
All levels of linguistic and com-municational nalysis have to be consid-ered to realize such a system.
In thispaper I will concentrate on the dialoguecomponent of the concept, which relieson two main knowledge sources.
Thediscourse grammar structures the dia-logue elements (or dialogue acts) as pos-sible parts of a dialogue and the dialogueknowledge base provides the possible con-tents of dialogues.
Additionally, a fram-ing discourse structure has to be built toprovide the specific dialogue-exercise.
AFSA (finite state automaton) based onthe discourse grammar determines thepossible moves which the dialogue mighttake.
On the one hand this concept is re-stricted enough to allow for (relatively)easy maintenance as well as expansionand on the other hand it is advancedenough to allow for simulated complexdialogues.1 In t roduct ionToday the main goal in foreign language teachingis acquiring the so-called communicative compe-tence instead of only memorizing the structure ofthe language.
This can be achieved by makingactive language production one of the main partsof the curriculum.
Being an efficient part of themedia to enhance the learning process, computersshould present asks that support he acquisitionof communicative competence.
In the present con-cept, a presentation of situations i suggested, inwhich the learner has to produce language, i.e.produce complete sentences in a simulated ia-logue.
Various program modules analyse the in-put linguistically, give feedback in case of errorsand present appropriate r actions to continue thedialogue.
This gives language learners a chanceto use their knowledge of the second language ina meaningful situation apart from the class roomsetting.Three goals are of relevance: 1) the languagelearner should be encouraged toenter free-formedinput instead of thinking about the 'expectation'of the program; 2) the program should offer re-liable feedback to the learner about his/her per-formance and 3) the program should be (easily)expandable.When one uses the program, a situation is pre-sented to the learner in which s/he is required toact in order to solve the particular problem athand.
For example, the learner is asked to buytickets for a movie and has to engage in a writ-ten dialogue with the computer as the seller of thetickets.The motivation for the development of the sys-tem arises from the above mentioned pedagogi-cal considerations and the insight hat traditionallanguage learning programs do offer only few ornone of the features to reach the above mentionedgoals.
The main part of this paper, however, dealsonly with the computational aspects of the prob-lem: a possible way to implement such a dialoguecomponent.
In the next section I will focus onthe dialogue component, which on the one handallows the learner to communicate with the com-puter in various dialogue situations, and on theother hand is restricted enough to be easily ex-pandable and maintainable and gives the possibil-ity for advanced feedback.
Finally I will give a253Proceedings of EACL '99rough sketch of the complete system.2 Discourse GrammarsOne way of realizing such dialogues is to de-velop discourse grammars which describe the stepsthrough distinct parts of dialogues.
This possibil-ity is chosen in the present concept, since it en-ables the learner to lead written, situation-baseddialogues almost as in the class-room situation.The advantage of a discourse grammar over a com-pletely plan-based ialogue structure is the sepe-rate representation of possible moves ('dialogueacts' in Alexandersson etal.
(1994)) and the con-tent of the discourse.
The discourse grammar ofan 'information-gathering' dialogue can be usedwhile reporting an accident as well as while or-dering a pizza.
In the first case the police officerwants to know all about the accident and possiblecasualties and in the latter case the pizza deliv-ery wants to know the toppings and size of thepizza.
On the other hand guidance is needed forthe learner in the CALL-scenario.
Systems likethe one described in Carberry (1990) are muchtoo open to be used for language learning.
Thesystem would not be able to give any feedback tothe learner in case of erroneous input.
Thereforethe system uses only restricted knowledge aboutwhat types of input to expect and how to reactto them since the general intentions of the learnerare known to the system through the situationpresented to the learner.
In other NLP-based sys-tems like 'Herr Kommissar' (deSmedt, 1995) and'LINGO' (Murray, 1995), the dialogue with thesystem either allows only single question-answerexchanges or is strongly embedded into the re-spective scenario.
In the first case the structureof a complete dialogue does not become clear tothe learner and the initiative is with the learnerwho might not know what to do.
In the secondcase it is difficult to include new scenarios incenot only the content of the new dialogue has tobe coded but also the various dialogue structures.Moreover the design of a system might not allowfor different ypes of dialogues:The dialogue component contains two mainknowledge bases: The first one contains the dis-course grammars, which structure so-called 'goal-driven dialogues' or 'task-oriented dialogues'.
IThe idea of discourse grammars as a means to han-dle dialogue situations is for instance presented inFawcett and Taylor (1989).
The second knowledgebase contains knowledge about the content of thedialogue itself.
This data is used to infer a mean-1 For a discussion about discourse grammars in gen-eral see e.g.
Taylor et al (1989).ingful reaction to the input sentence.
Additionallythis base contains lots in which the informationgiven by the learner is stored.The following figure shows a simplified part of adiscourse grammar, which models an informationgathering dialogue such as is necessary in the caseof collecting information about an accident.
Ad-ditional items of discourse grammars are of courseneeded, for example, to start and end a telephonecall, etc.The same type of structures is also used inthe analysis of dialogues, e.g.
(Carletta et al,1997).
Here dialogues are analysed with the helpof a 'Dialogue Structure Coding Scheme', which inparticular contains only a limited number of pos-sible moves between dialogue partners.
A similaranalysis was done in the preparational phase of theVerbmobil project (Alexandersson etal., 1994).
Ina dialogue system where the intentions of the dia-logue partners are known and the fixed structuresserve to assess the performance of the languagelearner, the restrictions will probably not makethe overall behaviour of the system worse thanmore flexible dialogue systems.in f o_gatherQUESTIONopen questions / ~interpretable uninterpretableanswer answerCONFIRMs_.__.
interpretable _____- INQUIRE answer /no more uninterpretablequestions answerI THANK-ENDIFigure 1: Simplified discourse grammarThe dialogue module uses a surrounding dis-course grammar, which includes the grammarparts for starting and ending a telephone call etc.From here the information gathering structure iscalled to try to fill the variables in the dialogueknowledge base (see below) by asking the learnera question.
This process is continued as long asthere are open questions (open questions) or un-til the learner does not provide interpretable in-put even after a repeated question (INQUIRE -THANK.END).The dialogue knowledge base contains the data254Proceedings of EACL '99necessary to lead a dialogue with a certain con-tent.
The data is organized in a hierarchical struc-ture.
In the 'police call' example the root-nodeconsists of a slot with a first reaction of the offi-cer (greeting) to be presented to the learner.
Thedaughter nodes (e.g.
accident, theft) contain someslots which are used for the actual presentation ofreactions on the screen or for information storageand retrieval.
Some slots are:- question for pieces of information: Thisincludes canned text, which is pre-sented to the learner.
For examplethe police officer might ask 'Are thereany injured people?
'.- information about expected answer:The semantic structure of thelearner's input is checked against hecontent of this slot and in case ofvariables it is stored.- keywords to match the learner's input:In case the parser was not able to pro-duce a semantic representation, thesystem retreats to keyword matchingin order to provide at least some re-action.- text as answer: A sentence is passed tothe learner to acknowledge orconfirmthe processing of the input ('So, therehas been an accident.
'}.In case the system chooses to ask a questionbased on the discourse grammar, the questionfrom the appropriate slot in a daughter node (top-down left-right) is passed to the learner.
Afterthe grammatical processing of the answer, thecontent is checked against he expected one.
Ifthey match, a confirmation may be passed to thelearner and the next step in the discourse gram-mar is taken.
If the answer was considered notappropriate for the question the system tries tofind a response in a hierarchy of steps from worldknowledge checking to simple keyword analysis.The final output can thus be from the same node,a subnode or from a more general independentsource of possible reactions.
Some mechanismhas to manage the matching-procedure of the sen-tence.
Possible mechanisms thus include:- the content matches completely: Thesystem was able to recognize the in-put sentence as some meaningful re-action to the previous question orstatement.- the content fits only partly (too gen-eral): There are subnodes which in-elude variables for more specific in-formation.- the content fits only partly (only oneaspect}: A general keyword-basedmechanism recognizes only parts ofthe expected input.
If possible thelearner is asked for further clarifica-tion.the content does not fit: A ques-tion for rephrasal will be displayed tothe learner.
Additionally the learnermight consult a helpfile with informa-tion about how to proceed in the cur-rent situation.A difficulty that might arise is the change ofcontrol (or initiative) between the dialogue part-nets.
Allowing the learner to take the initiativehas several consequences, which are difficult torealize.
In contrast o the present concept thedialogue module should include a language gener-ation device to generate natural anguage outputto database-inquiries.
From this follows that thedialogue knowledge base should not contain anycontradictions etc.
to allow for easy inference ofpossible answers to the input question.
Finallyin case the learner keeps on asking questions thesystem might fail to continue the dialogue in ameaningful way.
Thus a system designed for theuse by pupils must be rigid enough to deal withthis kind of input.The seemingly limited flexibility in this systemis not really a disadvantage, because 1) the learneris suppose d to act in a foreseeable way and 2) thesystem should give feedback in case of deviatingaction.
Especially the latter seems only possible ifa discourse grammar structures the moves whichdialogue partners might take.3 Sys tem Overv iewThe idea behind the system is to extend the typesof training which the student gets in a class roomsetting into a computer.
One important kind oftraining is the practising of dialogues.
Thereforethe program realizes small written dialogues forthe learner to train her/his 'communicative com-petence', as explained above.The system consists of four main modules.
Thedialogue control module mainly functions as an in-terface.
It organizes the flow of the input data be-tween the user-interface and the various process-ing modules.
Every input sentence is first passedto the linguistic module, which checks it for ortho-graphic and syntactic errors.
The orthographiccheck is done in the spirit of Oflazer (1996).
With255Proceedings of EACL '99the help of a finite state recognizer mildly devi-ating strings are identified and correct versionsare presented to the learner if necessary.
Thesyntactic heck follows a rather traditional path.The main work is done by a LFG-parser (Bresnanand Kaplan, 1982), originally implemented by Av-ery Andrews (Australian National University) andnow modified to suit the needs of error detectionwith the help of modified grammar processing in-cluding error rules (Kriiger et al, 1997).
As anext step the analysis of the sentence is checkedagainst a world knowledge base, from which feed-back follows to the learner if the sentence does notmatch the internal model of the world.
In con-trast to the dialogue knowledge base this modelof the world cannot be altered by the learner be-cause of its usage for inference and the absence ofa consistency-checking module to prevent contra-dictions etc.
If the student has made an error, thesystem provides feedback to support he learnerin typing a syntactically correct or semanticallymore plausible sentence.
After this step the dia-logue component tries to find a reaction to con-tinue the dialogue, as described above.The main focus in all the analyses i  to continuethe dialogue but without ignoring the errors madeby the learner.
Only the orthographic check willactually interrupt he dialogue with a suggestionof correct words for the misspelled items.
In allother cases the dialogue partner will react to theerroneous input depending on the type of error.4 Conc lus ionThe aim of this concept is to provide a foreign lan-guage learner with exercises that enhance his/hercommunicative ability.
One important module inthe system is the diMogue component i self whichorganizes e.g.
the turntaking in a dialogue.
Atleast two knowledge sources are necessary for li-mited flexibility and reusability.
The structure ofa dialogue can be handled by a discourse gram-mar whereas the content of a diMogue is storedinto an (expandable) knowledge base.
To add newdialogues, only the dialogue knowledge base andthe surrounding discourse grammar have to beupdated whereas the other specialized iscoursegrammars can be reused.
The structure of thedialogue knowledge base could also allow for thehandling of questions and multi-sentence answersgiven by the learner.
Nodes in the tree do notonly represent variables to be instantiated by thelearner, but might also include knowledge the sys-tem can provide to the learner.The kind of dialogue component presented hereallows for 1) easy maintainance and expansionwith new dialogues, 2) advanced feedback to thelearner and 3) flexible and pedagogically soundexercises which enhance the process of aquiring'communicative competence'.Re ferencesJan Alexandersson, Elisabeth Maier, and Nor-bert Reithinger.
1994.
A robust and efficientthree-layered ialog component for a speech-to-speech translation system.
Verbmobil-report50, DFKI, Saarbriicken.Joan Bresnan and Ronald M. Kaplan, 1982.Lexical-Functional Grammar: A Formal Sys-tem for Grammatical Representation.
In Bres-nan (Bresnan, 1982).Joan Bresnan, editor.
1982.
The mental repre-sentation of grammatical relations.
MIT Press,Cambridge (MA).Sandra Carberry.
1990.
Plan Recognition inNatural Language Dialogue.
MIT Press, Cam-bridge, MA.J.
Carletta, A. Isard, S. Isard, J. Kowtko,G.
Doherty-Sneddon, and A. Anderson.
1997.The reliability of a dialogue structure codingscheme.
Computational Linguistics, 23(1).WilliamH.
deSmedt, 1995.
Herr Kommissar: AnICALL Conversation Simulator for Intermedi-ate German.
In Holland et al (Holland et al,1995).R.P.
Fawcett and M.M.
Taylor, 1989.
A Genera-tive Grammar for Local Discourse Structure.
InTaylor et al (Taylor et al, 1989).V.
Melissa Holland, Jonathan D. Kaplan, andMichelle R. Sams, editors.
1995.
IntelligentLanguage Tutors.
Erlbaum, Mahwah (N J).Anja Kriiger, Hendrik Dittman, and MaureenMurphy.
1997.
Grammar based error diagnosisin CALL.
Informatics research reports, Univer-sity of Ulster.Janet H. Murray, 1995.
Lessons Learned from theAthena Language Learning Project.
In Hollandet al (Holland et al, 1995).Kemal Oflazer.
1996.
Error-tolerant finite-staterecognition with applications to morphologicalanalysis and spelling correction.
ComputationalLinguistics, 22(1).M.M.
Taylor, F. Neel, and D.G.
Bouwhuis, edi-tors.
1989.
The structure of Multimodal Dialog.Elsevier, North-Holland.256
