Proceedings ofEACL '99Determinat ion  of Syntact i c  Funct ions  in Es ton ian  Const ra in tGrammarKaili MfifirisepInst i tute of Computer  ScienceUniversity of TartuLiivi 2, 50409 Tar tuESTONIAkai l i~ut.eeAbstractThis article describes the current stateof syntactic analysis of Estonian usingConstraint Grammar.
Constraint Gram-mar framework divides parsing into twodifferent modules: morphological disam-biguation and determination of syntac-tic functions.
This article focuses on thelast module in detail.
If the morphologi-cal disambiguator achieves the precisionmore than 85% and error rate is smallerthan 2% then 80-88% of words becomessyntactically unambiguous.
The errorrate of parser is 1-4% depending on theambiguity rate of input.
The main goalof this work is to elaborate an efficientparser for Estonian and annotate theCorpus of Estonian Written Texts syn-tactically.
It is the first attempt to writea parser for Estonian.1 IntroductionThe main idea of the Constraint Grammar (Karls-son, 1990) is that it determines the surface-levelsyntactic analysis of the text which has gonethrough prior morphological nalysis.
The processof syntactic analysis consists of three stages: mor-phological disambiguation, identification ofclauseboundaries, and identification of syntactic func-tions of words.
This article focuses on the lastmodule in detail.
Grammatical features of wordsare presented in the forms of tags which are at-tached to words.
The tags indicate the inflectionaland derivational properties of the word and theword class membership, the tags attached uringthe last stage of the analysis indicate its syntacticfunctions.
The underlying principle in determin-ing both the morphological interpretation a d thesyntactic functions is the same: first all the pos-sible labels are attached to words and then theones that do not fit the context are removed byapplying special rules or constraints.
ConstraintGrammar consists of hand written rules which bychecking the context decide whether an interpre-tation is correct or has to be removed.Constraint Grammar seemed to suit best for theanalysis of Estonian texts because its mechanismis simple and easily implementable, it can be welladapted for the Estonian language, it is at thesame time sufficiently reliable (robust) and the re-sulting syntactic analysis that the Grammar givessuits various practical applications.2 Syntactic Analysis of EstonianThe Estonian language is a Finno-Ugric languageand has got a rich structure of declensional ndconjugational forms.
The order of sentence con-stituents in Estonian is relatively free and influ-enced more by semantic and pragmatic factors.For morphological nalysis of Estonian, we usethe morphological nalyser ESTMORF (Kaalep,1997) that assigns adequate morphological de-scriptions to about 98% of tokens in a text.
Mor-phologically analysed text is disambiguated byConstraint Grammar disambiguator f Estonian.The development of disambiguator is in processbut 85-90% of words become morphologically un-ambiguous and the error rate of this disambigua-tot is less than 2% (Puolakainen, 1998).All the syntactic information isgiven by syntac-tic tags in constraint grammar framework.
Thesyntactic tags of Estonian Constraint Grammar(ESTCG) are derived from tag set of EnglishConstraint Grammar (ENGCG) (Voutilainen etal., 1992) with some modifications considering thespecialities of Estonian.
These tags are attachedto words by 175 morphosyntactic mapping rules.After this step of parsing there are approximately3.8 tags per word.After the mapping operation syntactic con-straints are applied.
ESTCG contains 800 syntac-tic constraints.
In fact, nearly half of them treat291Proceedings of EACL '99the attributes.
It can be explained by the fact thatthere are 12 types of attributes in ESTCG and theattribute tags are also added to almost every wordin sentence (except finite verbs and conjunctions).3 Resul tsTo evaluate the performance of parser I use twotypes of corpora.
Training corpus is used for for-mulating rules and preliminary testing.
After test-ing I improve rules so that most errors will befixed next time.
Benchmark corpus is used onlyfor evaluating parser.
Both types of corpora con-sist of fiction texts.
The training corpus contains4 texts of 2000 words from different Estonian writ-ers.
Benchmark corpus consists of 2000 word.
Iused these corpora in two experiments.
In the firstexperiment (experiment A) I tested only the syn-tactic function detecting part of grammar and Isupposed that the input text is ideally morpho-logically analysed and disambiguated, this meansthat all words are morphologically correct andunambiguous.
For this experiment both corporawere manually morphologically disambiguated.
Inthe second experiment (experiment B) I used thesame corpora but they were disambiguated au-tomatically.
In this case the disambiguator made2% errors and left 13% of words ambiguous, 1% ofwords were unknown for morphological nalyser.The precision and recall of ESTCG parser areshown in table 1.Table 1.
Recall and precision.Corpus Recall PrecisionA Training 99,12% 83,76%A Benchmark 98,12% 85,00%B Training 95,76% 74,34%B Benchmark 96,58% 76,52%The big number of errors in B experiment canbe explained by the fact that I wrote prelimi-nary grammar ules using only manually disam-biguated corpora nd the work on correcting rulesusing more ambiguous input is still in process.
AsI mentioned before the input was ambiguous anderroneous in this experiment and this caused errorrate of 3%.The errors in manually disambiguated corporaare mostly caused by ellipsis, some errors occurredduring determination f apposition and the thirdbiggest group of errors exists in sentences thereone clause divides the other into two parts.In experiment A, 86-88% of words become syn-tactically unambiguous, and in experiment B, the.corresponding umbers are 80-82%.
In both ex-periment less than 0,5% of words have 5-6 syntac-tic tags.It is very difficult to distinguish adverbial at-tributes and adverbials.
Approximately 6% ofanalysed words have both labels.
This is almostthe same problem as PP-attachment in Englishbut additionally it is possible to use both premod-ifying and postmodifying adverbial attributes inEstonian.
Of course the PP-attachment problemis also existent.
The other hard problem is the dis-tinction of genitive attributes and objects.
If twoor more nouns in genitive case are situated side byside then these words remain usually ambiguous,e.g .
.
.
.
siis vabastab kohus tema vara hooldajaj~irelevalve alt.
/ ... then free-SG3 court-NOMhe-GEN property-GEN trustee-GEN supervision-GEN from-POSTP / '... then the court frees hisproperty from the supervision of trustee.
'4 Conc lus ionsIn this paper I described my work on the syntac-tic part of Estonian Constraint Grammar parser.The error rate of parser is 1-4% depending on am-biguity rate of input.
80-88% of words becomesyntactically unambiguous.The most exhaustive Constraint Grammar iswritten for English.
Timo J~rvinen, the author ofsyntactic part of ENGCG, reported that the er-ror rate is 2 - 2,5% and ambiguity rate ca 15%(J~rvinen, 1994).
Of course the Estonian andEnglish are too different languages and the com-parison of performance of parsers do not help todraw any fundamental conclusions.
But I reallyhope that the Estonian parser achieves nearly thesame performance very soon.
The further workwill focus on decreasing the error rate and usingstatistical analysis for generating new rules.ReferencesTimo J~irvinen.
1994.
Annotating 200 MillionWords: The Bank of English Project.
In Proceed-ings of COLING-94.
Vol.
1,565-568, Kyoto.Heiki-Jaan Kaalep.
1997.
An Estonian Mor-phological Analyser and the Impact of a Corpuson its Development.
Computers and Humanities,31(2):115-133.Fred Karlsson.
1990.
Constraint Grammar as aframework for parsing running text.
Proceedingsof COLING-90.
Vol.
3, 168-173, Helsinki.Tiina Puolakainen.
1998.
Developing Con-straint Grammar for Morphological Disambigua-tion of Estonian.
Proceedings of DIALOGUE'98.Vol.
2, 626-630, Kazan.Atro Voutilainen, Juha Heikkil~i and ArtoAnttila.
1992.
Constraint Grammar of English.
APerformance Oriented Introduction.
Publications21, Department ofGeneral Linguistics, Universityof Helsinki.292
