Proceedings of EACL '99Compar i son  and  C lass i f i ca t ion  of  D ia lec tsJ ohn  Nerbonne and  Wi lber t  Heer inga  and  Peter  K le iwegAlfa- informatica, BCN, University of Groningen9700 AS Groningen, The Nether lands{nerbonne, heeringa, kleiweg}@let, rug.
nlAbstractThis project measures and classifies lan-guage variation.
In contrast o earlierdialectology, we seek a comprehensivecharacterization f (potentially gradual)differences between dialects, rather thana geographic delineation of(discrete) fea-tures of individual words or pronuncia-tions.
More general characterizations ofdialect differences then become available.We measure phonetic (un)relatednessbetween dialects using Levenshtein dis-tance, and classify by clustering dis-tances but also by analysis through mul-tidimensional scaling.1 Data and MethodData is from Reeks Nederlands(ch)e Dialectat-lassen (Blancqua~rt and P6e, 1925 1982)).
It con-tains 1,956 Netherlandic and North Belgian tran-scriptions of 141 sentences.
We chose 104 dialects,regularly scattered over the Dutch language area,and 100 words which appear in each dialect ext,and which contain all vowels and consonants.Comparison is based on Levenshtein distance,a sequence-processing algorithm which speechrecognition has also used (Kruskal, 1983).
It cal-culates the "cost" of changing one word into an-other using insertions, deletions and replacements.L-distance (sl, s2) is the sum of the costs of thecheapest set of operations changing sl to s2.s~agIrl delete r 1s~agIl replace I/0 2saag?l insert r 1sarag?lSum distance 4The example above illustrates Levenstein distanceapplied to Bostonian and standard American pro-nunciations of saw a girl.
Kessler (1995) appliedLevenshtein distance to Irish dialects.
The ex-ample simplifies our procedure for clarity: refine-ments due to feature sensitivity are omitted.
Toobtain the results below, costs are refined basedon phonetic feature overlap.
Replacement costsvary depending on the phones involved.
Differ-ent feature systems were tested; the results hownare based on Hoppenbrouwers' (SPE-like) features(Hoppenbrouwers and Hoppenbrouwers, 1988).Comparing two dialects results in a sum of 100word pair comparisons.
Because longer wordstend to be separated by more distance thanshorter words, the distance of each word pair isnormalized by dividing it by the mean lengthsof the word pair.
This results in a halfmatrix ofdistances, to which (i) clustering may be appliedto CLASSIFY dialects (Aldenderfer and Blashfield,1984); while (ii) multidimensional scaling may beapplied to extract he most significant dimensions(Kruskal and Wish, 1978).2 ResultsWe have validated the technique using cross-validation on unseen Dutch dialect data (Ner-bonne and Heeringa, 1999).
The map in Fig-ure 1 distinguishes Dutch "dialect area" in a waywhich nonstatistical methods have been unable todo (without resorting to subjective choices of dis-tinguishing features).
Ongoing work applies thetechnique to questions of convergence/divergenceof dialects using dialect data from two differentperiods.
Finally, the MDS analysis gives math-ematical form to the intuition of dialectologistsin Dutch (and other areas) that the material isbest viewed as a "continuum".
The map is ob-tained by interpreting MDS dimensions as col-ors and mixing using inverse distance weighting.Further information on the project is available atx~r~.
le t .
rug.
n l /a l fa / ,  "Projects.
"3 AcknowledgementsJoseph Kruskal's advice has been invaluable.281Proceedings of EACL '99Oost -V l i~Hollum Nes ~ermon~koogRenesse?
.L?late ',i q,~ = , KerkradeBael~Figure 1: The most significant dimensions in average Levenshtein distance, as identified by multi-dimensional scaling, are colored red, green and blue.
The map gives form to the dialectologist's intuitionthat dialects exist "on a continuum," within which, however significant differences emerges.
The Frisiandialects (blue), Saxon (dark green), Limburg (red), and Flemish (yellow-green) are clearly distinct.Re ferencesMark S. Aldenderfer and Roger K. Blashfield.1984.
Cluster Analysis.
Quantitative Applica-tions in the Social Sciences.
Sage, Beverly Hills.E.
Blancquaert and W. P@e.  1925-1982.Reeks Nederlandse Dialectatlassen.
De Sikkel,Antwerpen.Cor Hoppenbrouwers and Geer Hoppenbrouwers.1988.
De featurefrequentiemethode en de clas-sificatie van nederlandse dialecten.
TABU: Bul-letin voor TaaIwetensehap , 18(2):51-92.Brett Kessler.
1995.
Computational dialectologyin Irish Gaelic.
In Proc.
of the European ACL,pages 60-67, Dublin.Joseph Kruskal and Myron Wish.
1978.
Multidi-mensional Scaling.
Sage, Beverly Hills.Joseph Kruskal.
1983.
An overview of sequencecomparison.
In David Sankoff and JosephKruskal, editors, Time Warps, String Editsand Macromolecules: The ory and Practiceof Sequence Comparison, pages 1-44.
Addison-Wesley, Reading, Mass.-John Nerbonne and Wilbert Heeringa.
1999.Computational comparison and classification ofdialects.
Zeitschrift fiir Dialektologie und Lin-guistik.
Spec.
iss.
ed.
by Jaap van Marie and JanBerens w. selections from 2nd Int'l Congress ofDialectologists and Geolinguists, Amsterdam,1997.282
