Proceedings of EACL '99The GENIA project: corpus-based knowledge acquisition andinformation extraction from genome research papersNige l  Co l l i e r ,  Hyun Seok  Park ,  Nor ih i ro  OgataYuka  Tate ish i ,  Ch ikash i  Nobata ,  Tomoko OhtaTatesh i  Sekimizu, Hisao Imai, Katsutoshi Ibushi, Jun-ichi Tsu j i i{nigel ,hsp20, ogat a,yucca, nova, okap ,sekimizu,hisao ,k-ibushi, tsuj ii}~?s, s .u-tokyo.
ac.
jpDepartment of Information Science, Graduate School of ScienceUniversity of Tokyo, Hongo 7-3-1, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113, JapanAbst ractWe present an outline of the genome in-formation acquisition (GENIA) projectfor automatically extracting biochemicalinformation from journal papers and ab-stracts.
GENIA will be available overthe Internet and is designed to aid ininformation extraction, retrieval and vi-sualisation and to help reduce informa-tion overload on researchers.
The vastrepository of papers available online indatabases such as MEDLINE is a natu-ral environment in which to develop lan-guage engineering methods and tools andis an opportunity to show how languageengineering can play a key role on theInternet.1 In t roduct ionIn the context of the global research effort to mapthe human genome, the Genome Informatics Ex-traction project, GENIA (GENIA, 1999), aims tosupport such research by automatically extract-ing information from biochemical papers and theirabstracts uch as those available from MEDLINE(MEDLINE, 1999) written by domain specialists.The vast repository of research papers which arethe results of genome research are a natural envi-ronment in which to develop language ngineeringtools and methods.This project aims to help reduce the problemscaused by information overload on the researcherswho want to access the information held insidecollections uch as MEDLINE.
The key elementsof the project are centered around the tasks ofinformation extraction and retrieval.
These areoutlined below and then the interface which inte-grates them is described.1.1 Termino logy  ident i f icat ion andclassificationThrough discussions with domain experts, wehave identified several classes of useful entitiessuch as the names of proteins and genes.
The re-liable identification and acquisition of such classmembers is one of our key goals so that terminol-ogy databases can be automatically extended.
Weshould not however underestimate the difficulty ofthis task as the naming conventions in this fieldare very loose.In our initial experiments we used the EN-GCG shallow parser (Voutilainen, 1996) to iden-tify noun phrases and classify them as proteins(Sekimizu et al, 1998) according to their cooc-currence with a set of verbs.
Due to the difficul-ties caused by inconsistent naming of terms, wehave decided to use multiple sources of evidencefor classifying terminology.Currently we have extended our approach andare exploring two models for named entity recog-nition.
The first is based on a statistical modelof word clustering (Baker and McCallum, 1998)which is trained on pre-classified word lists fromSwissprot and other databases.
We supplementedthis with short word lists to identify the class froma term's final noun if it existed in a head final po-sition.
In our first experiments on a judgementset of 80 expert tagged MEDLINE abstracts themodel yielded F-scores for pre-identified phrasesas follows: 69.35 for 1372 source entities, 53.00 for3280 proteins, 66.67 for 56 RNA and 45.20 for 566DNA: We expect this to improve with the addi-tion of better training word lists.
The second ap-proach is based on decision trees (Quinlan, 1993),supplemented with word lists for classes derivedfrom Swissprot and other databases.
In these teststhe phrases for terms were not pre-identified.
Themodel was trained on a corpus of 60 expert aggedMEDLINE abstracts and tested on a corpus of 20articles yielding F-scores of: 55.38 for 356 source,66.58 for 808 protein entities.
The number of RNA271Proceedings of EACL '99and DNA entities was too small to train with.As part of the overall project we are creatingan expert-tagged corpus of MEDLINE abstractsand full papers for training and testing our tools.The markup scheme for this corpus is being de-veloped in cooperation with groups of biologistsand is based on a conceptual domain model imple-mented in SGML.
The corpus itself will be cross-validated with an independent group of biologists.1.2 Information extractionWe are using information extraction methods toautomatically extract named entity properties,events and other domain-specific concepts fromMEDLINE abstracts and full texts.
One part ofthis work is the construction and maintenance ofan ontology for the domain which is executed bya system which we are now developing called On-tology Extraction-Maintenace System (OEMS).OEMS extracts three types of information aboutthe domain-ontology, (Ogata, 1997), called typ-ing information, from the abstracts: taxonomy (asubtype structure), mereology (apart-whole struc-ture), synonymy (an identity structure).
Eventu-ally we hope to be able to identify and extract do-main specific facts such as protein-protein bindinginformation from full texts and to aid biochemistsin the formation of cell signalling diagrams whichare necessary for their work.1.3 Thesaurus buildingA further goal of our work is to construct a the-saurus automatically from MEDLINE abstractsand domain dictionaries consisting of medical do-main terms for the purpose of query expansion iinformation retrieval of databases such as MED-LINE, e.g.
see (Jing and Croft, 1994).
Weare currently working with the Med test set (30queries and 1033 documents) on SMART (e.g.
see(Salton, 1989),(Buckley et al, 1993)).
Eventuallywe plan on building a specialised thesaurus for thegenome domain but this currently depends on thecreation of a suitable test set.1.4 InterfaceA key aspect of this project is providing easy inter-action between domain experts and the informa-tion extraction programs.
Our interface providesa link to the information extraction programs aswell as clickable links to aid in querying for relatedinformation from publically available databases onthe WWW within a single environment.
For ex-ample, a user can highlight proteins in the textsusing the named entity extraction program andthen search for the molecule structure diagram.2 ConclusionThis paper has provided asynopsis of the GENIAproject.
The project will run for a further twoyears and aims to provide an online demonstrationof how language ngineering can be useful in thegenome domain.ReferencesL.D.
Baker and A.K.
McCallum.
1998.
Distribu-tional clustering of words for text classification.In Proceedings of the 21st Annual InternationalACM SIGIR Conference on Research and De-velopment in Information Retrieval, Melbourne,Australia.C.
Buckley, J. Allan, and G. Salton.
1993.Automatic routing and ad-hoc retrieval usingSMART: TREC-2.
In D. K. Harman, editor,The second Text REtrieval Conference (TREC-2), pages 45-55.
NIST.GENIA.
1999.
Information on the GENIAproject can be found at:.
http://www.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/-nigel/GENIA.html.Y.
Jing and W. Croft.
1994.
An association the-saurus for information retrieval.
In Proceedingsof RIAO'94, pages 146-160.MEDLINE.
1999.
The PubMeddatabase can be found at:.http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed/.Norihiro Ogata.
1997.
Dynamic constructivethesaurus.
In Language Study and Thesaurus:Proceedings of the National Language ResearchInstitute Fifth International Symposium: Ses-sion I, pages 182-189.
The National LanguageResearch Institute, Tokyo.J.R.
Quinlan.
1993. c4.5 Programs for MachineLearning.
Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, Inc.,San Mateo, California.G.
Salton.
1989.
Automatic Text Processing- TheTransformation, Analysis, and Retrieval of In-formation by Computer.
Addison-Wesley Pub-lishing Company, Inc., Reading, Massachusetts.T.
Sekimizu, H. Park, and J. Tsujii.
1998.
Iden-tifying the interaction between genes and geneproducts based on frequently seen verbs in med-line abstracts.
In Genome Informatics.
Unvier-sal Academy Press, Inc.A.
Voutilainen.
1996.
Designing a (finite-state)parsing grammar.
In E. Roche and Y. Sch-abes, editors, Finite-Slate Language Processing.A Bradford Book, The MIT Press.272
