Proceedings of EACL '99Result Stages and the Lexicon :The Proper Treatment of Event StructurePatrick CaudalTALANA, UFR de Linguistique, Universit~ Paris 72, place Jussieu75251 Paris Cedex 05, FRANCEcaudal @linguist.jussieu.frAbstractI will argue in this paper that the standardnotions of affectedness,  change-of-state andresult state are too coarse-grained, and willrevise and enrich substantially their content,increasing their role in a compositional spectconstrual procedure.
I will claim in particularthat a proper theory of event structure requiresthat enriched result states should be lexicallyrepresented, and will base on them acomputational treatment of event structurewithin a feature-structure-based lexicon.IntroductionEvent structure is traditionally accounted for usingtwo sets of notions : change-of-state / affectednessand incrementality.
I will examine both in this paper,determining their respective limitations, beforeproposing an alternative approach and the formalspecifications for a computational implementation.1 From affectedness to result states:how can we account for event structure .91.1 Affectedness,  change-of-state andtelicityTelic events are generally viewed as an oppositionbetween a previously holding state and a new one,called a result state (e.g.
dead(y) for x kills y).
Theytrigger a change-of-state (COS, henceforth), resultstates (RSs, henceforth) being entailments of CoSs.Moens and Steedman (1988), Smith (1991),Pustejovsky (1995), and others argue that it is adefining property of telic events.
They shouldtherefore include an 'undergoer' argument, whoseCoS determines the telicity of the event (i.e., it acts asa measur ing-out  argument).
Tenny (1987) thusclaims that telic events require such an argument,which she calls an affected argument.
Consider forinstance John reviewed the paper:  as the eventreaches its culimation, the affected argumentundergoes a CoS (from --,reviewed(paper) toreviewed(paper)), producing a RS.
To put it short, thestandard theory of event structure says that telicityimplies affectedness (and conversely), and thataffectedness implies a CoS/RS (and conversely),associating tightly all those notions.Unfortunately, not all measuring-out arguments areaffected arguments :( 1 ) Two men carried Hirsch on the deck.Jackendoff (1996:309) observed that (implicit) pathssuch as on the deck in (1) are not affected arguments,so that the telicity of such motion events cannot beexplained using affectedness, ruling out a unifiedaffectedness-based account of telicityL It followsfrom this objection that the standard theory should beat least amended.
Jackendoff's olution is a generalmapping function from measuring-out arguments(seen as paths) to events.
It is related toincrementality, which I am discussing below.1.2 Result states and incrementalityEvent-object mapping functions, as proposed inKrifka (1992) and Dowty (1991), are another keyapproach to the treatment of event structure.
Dowty(1991) calls an incremental theme any argumentI Yet motion verbs could be attributed an affectedargument, i.e., their agents, so thatJackendoff's pointagainst affectedness does not seem to be decisive.233Proceedings of EACL '99capable of measuring-out an event.
For instance, thedrinking event in (2) can be measured along thequantity of beer contained in the glass throughfunctions mapping the latter onto the former.
(2) John drank a glass of beer.The glass of beer in (2) undergoes an incrementalCoS, and is therefore an incremental theme.
Path-objects (cf.
Mary walked the Appalachian trail ;Tenny 1994), can be treated as some special kind ofincremental themes, and Jackendoff's olution couldthus be reformulated using incrementality 2.Let us turn now to the treatment of so-calledachievement verbs (cf.
Vendler 1957).
Most authorsdo not grant them incremental themes.
Dowty (1991),for instance, argues that incremental themes must beable to undergo an incremental CoS :(3a) ?
?The horse finished crossing the line.
(OK in slow motion)(3b) The horses finished crossing the line.
(3a) shows indeed that cross the line lacks propersubevents, and that no incremental CoS occurs.
ButDowty never considered examples such as (3b),which receive an incremental reading (albeit of adifferent kind, since the subevents construed in (3)involve individual parts of a set of objects rather thannon-individual parts of an individual object, as in(2)).
Therefore, I will conclude that the kind ofaffected arguments which achievement verbs possesscan also be regarded as incremental themes.
It seemsat this point that all kinds of telic events can beanalysed in terms of incrementality.
However, I willshow in the following section that this is not the case.Generally speaking, relying on incrementality alonewould mean relegating CoSs and RSs to thebackstage of aspect construal 3 : in order to accountfor telicity without affectedness, one should deny acentral role to CoSs, and regard telicity primarily as amatter of measure.
I will propose an alternativesolution in the following sections preserving thecentrality of CoS, yet departing from the standard2 See Jackendoff (I 996) for some syntactic provisos.3 At least in the case of path-movement verbs, cf.
(1).approach to affectedness and CoS, and justified bydata falling outside the scope of incrementality.2.
A richer conception of result statesfor a proper treatment of event structure2.1 RSs with and without change-of-stateI will argue here that different ypes of affectednessand RSs (e.g., entailing a CoS for telic events, andnot entailing a CoS for atelic ones) should bedistinguished, going against the predominantposition.
Few authors mention the possibility foratelic events to receive RSs, or do it incidentally(e.g., Parsons 1990).
But consider the following data :(4) Loom Mona has been very sick.
t(5) Mona has already sailed.
(4) and (5) denote a present state-of-affairs (Mona'spoor looks in (4) / sailing expertise in (5)) following apast fact - yet no CoS is involved.
Let us now turn toverbs of gradual CoS :(6) Mona cooked this chicken in/ for  two hours.
(7) Mona has only slightly I not too much cookedher chicken.
(8) ?
?John has only slightly / not too much drunkhis glass of beer.
(6) can be read as telic or atelic, and although itsinternal argument is undergoing a CoS, it is not anincremental CoS, since the whole of the chicken isgradually affected (and no__!t its subparts ; compare(2)).
It seems rather that the progression of thecooking event depends on the internal structure of theassociated RS : the event develops as the chicken ismore and more cooked (see Ramchand (1997) for asimilar analysis4).
The types of RSs and affectednessinvolved differ clearly from those of the incrementaltelic events considered so far.
Such RSs as that of4 Jackendoff (1996) also proposes RSs as paths for suchevents.
But the impact on event structure of the differencebetween the scalar CoS in (6) and the incremental one in(2) cannot be motivated in such works, since it is related toa difference in the associated RSs.
The incrementalityapproach misses this point, so that RS-based paths arerather ad hoc devices.234Proceedings of EACL '99cook are scalar, i.e., can vary in terms of degrees (see(7)), so that a 'final' degree may or may not bereached.
Contrariwise, incremental events are notendowed with scalar RSs / affectedness (cf.
(8)) : onedoes not drink something 'to a certain degree /intensity'.
It appears now that a proper treatment ofevent structure requires a richer conception of RSs,CoSs and affectedness, and cannot be exclusivelybased on incrementality..Legend : x?y : x overlaps with y ; x<y : x precedes y ; x<*y: ordered part-of relationship between events ;(9) dr ink ( e ,  x, y)drink_IStage (e,,x,y) drink RStage (e2,y)idrink_P_RS (e3, y) drink_S_RS (e4, y):F, e3 < e 4 A e 3 e 1 --*Y ex  <*  e 2I assume that events canonically break down into atleast two stages: RStages and Inner Stages (notedIStages), the latter describing an events' development- e.g., the drinking process assumed to precede theend of a drinking event.Briefly, telic events will receive a binary RStage (cf(10)) consisting of a primary RS and a secondary RS,the former being related to the development of theevent (cf.
John has been drinking beer) and the latterto its culmination (i.e., to the state of affairs arisingfrom the event's final completion ; cf.
John has drunka beer).
Moreover, the secondary RS should be thecomplementary of the primary RS, so as to cause adefinite CoS 5.
The diagrams (9) and (10) indicate thatthe primary RSs of drink and run overlap with theirrespective IStages, and that the Secondary RS ofdrink abuts with both its primary RS and IStage.Moreover, the sortal opposition between primary andsecondary RSs should be viewed as a transitionfunction.
I assume here that transition functions (i.e.,functions allowing for CoSs) require such binarysortal domains, in the spirit of Pustejovsky(lbrthcoming).
Some kind of causal relationship is5 Path-object verbs as in (1) can also be analysed in termsof RStages.
I will not discuss here the treatment of this andmany other event ypes for want of space.2.2 RStages as sets of  sorted RSsTo formulate an alternative treatment of eventstructure accounting for the data presented above, Iwill introduce result stages (RStages henceforth),consisting of one or several RSs.
I am moreoverassuming here that semantic features and categoriesare treated within a multi-sortal logic, possessing ahierarchy of sorts organized as an inheritance-basedlattice structure (see White 1994).
: x left overlaps with y. .
.
.
.
.
: overlap relationship between events(lO) ru : (e ,x )Irun  ZStage  (e  x ,  x)IIrun  RSt :age  (e  2, x ):F, e l  * e 2also assumed to hold between IStages and RStages inthe case of telic events.Telic scalar verbs like cook will receive binaryRStages with scalar primary RSs.
Scalar RSs will bedefined through scalar sortal domains, so as toaccount for the behaviour of those verbs.
I will notstudy here their atelic readings for want of space todo so.
Finally, since atelic events do not entail a CoS,I will assign them unary RStages, devoid of primaryRSs, so that no opposition between two RSs (andtherefore no CoS) arises - see (10).3.
Encoding RStages in the lexiconI will now propose the formal specifications for alexical computational implementation of the abovetreatment.
Each verb will be assigned a sortedRStage, sorts being used as well-formednessconditions.
I am proposing in figure 1 a lexical entryfor drink within the Generative Lexicon framework(cf.
Pustejovsky (1995)).
It can be adapted to anytype of feature-structure-based computationallexicon, though.
Note that the m- inc  and i - incfunctions are homomorphi?
aspectual roles relatingevents to the individual vs. material subparts ofobjects (see Caudal (1999) for further details).235Proceedings of EACL '99Figure 1.
Lexical representation of drink within the Generative Lexicon framework"-DrinkARGSTR =EVENTSTR =QUALIA  =- -ARGI  =ARG2 =RESTR =I -S tage  =R-Stage  =I FORMAL =ONSTITUT IVE  =GENTIVE  =x : animate_ind ^ i-inc(x,e I)y : beverage ^ m-inc(y, ea)<*e x : ~ drinking_act(el,x,y)e 2 : ~ Binary--m-inc--RStage(e2,Y)~ ^ Delimited(e2) Iz-stage / R -Stage  describe the Inner and ResultStages.
The Del imi ted sort indicates delimitedevents, while the Binary_m-inc_RStage sort bearsthe transition function (i.e., the binary sortal domain)attached to drink, thus allowing it to be read as anincremental telic event ; cf.
(9).ConclusionThe treatment proposed here receives indirect supportfrom recent developments in the syntax-semanticsinterface underlining the importance of affectednessand CoS in argument structure and aspect construal ;cf.
Ramchand (1998).
Yet the novelty of thisapproach to event structure should be stressed w.r.t.the standard notions prevailing in the (even recent)literature, while it does not belittle the role of theusual apparatus about IStages, telicity and event-object mapping functions.
It rather pairs them withRStages.
Finally, the present account offers a moreunified and explanatory treatment of event structurethan those essentially based on incrementality, sincethey have to rely on RS-based paths to explain thetelicity of scalar verbs and resultative constructions.To my knowledge, and although it has not beenexposed here in detail, the RStage-based approach toevent structure can be extended to all event ypes.ReferencesCaudal, P. 1999.
Computational Lexical Semantics,Incrementality and the So-Called Punctuality ofEvents.
Proceedings of the 37 'h Annual Meeting,University of Maryland, June.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Dowty, D. 1991.
Thematic Proto-Roles andArgument Selection.
Languages, 67(3).Jackendoff, R. 1996.
The Proper Treatment ofMeasuring Out, Telicity and Perhaps EventQuantification i  English.
Natural Language andLinguistic Theory, 14.Krifka, M. 1992.
Thematic Relations as Linksbetween Nominal Reference and TemporalConstitution.
In I.
Sag and A. Szabolsci, editors,Lexical Matters.
CSLI Publications, Stanford, CA.Moens, M. and M. Steedman.
1988.
TemporalOntology and Temporal Reference, ComputationalLinguistics, 14(2).Parsons, T. 1990.
Events in the Semantics of English -A Study in Subatomic Semantics.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.Pustejovsky, J.
1995.
The Generative Lexicon.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Pustejovsky, J.
(forthcoming).
Decomposition andType Construction.
Ms., Brandeis University, MA.Ramchand, G. 1997.
Aspect and Predication.Clarendon Press, Oxford.Ramchand, G. 1998.
Deconstructing the lexicon.
InM.
Butt and W. Geuder, editors, The Projection ofArguments.
CSLI, Stanford, CA.Smith, C. 1991.
The Parameter of Aspect.
Kluwer,Dordrecht.Tenny, C. 1987.
Grammaticalizing Aspect andAffectedness.
Ph.D. dissertation, Department ofLinguistics, MIT, Cambridge, MA.Tenny, C. 1994.
Aspectual Roles and the Syntax-Semantics Interface.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Vendler, Z.
1957.
Verbs and Time.
The PhilosophicalReview, 66.White, M. 1994.
A Computational Approach toAspectual Composition.
Ph.D. dissertation,Institute for Research in Cognitive Science,University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphi a .236
