Proceedings of EACL '99Po int ing  to EventsFrank  Sch i lderDepar tment  for In format icsUnivers i ty  of HamburgVogt-KSl ln-Str .
3022527 HamburgGERMANYschi!der@informatik,  uni- hamburg ,  de1 IntroductionAlthough there is an extensive body of researchconcerned with anaphora resolution (e.g.
(Fox,1987; Grosz et al, 1995)), event anaphora hasbeen widely neglected.
This paper describesthe results of an empirical study regarding eventreference.
The experiment investigated eventanaphora in narrative discourse via a sentencecompletion task.
The results of the experimentsuggest that the discourse structure stablished byan explanation or elaboration relation has an in-fluence on whether the last mentioned event, pre-viously mentioned events or a complex event ispreferably referred to.First, a short introduction is given to the ob-servation that reference by the demonstrative pro-noun this can only be done to antecedents men-tioned in segments at the right frontier of the dis-course structure tree (Webber, 1991).
Second, al-though the right frontier restriction is generallyagreed on by researchers, it is still unclear whatkind of information is actually stored on higherlevels of the discourse tree.
Segmented DiscourseStructure Theory (SDRT) is introduced (Asher,1993) and the predictions of this theory are dis-cussed regarding event anaphora for two examplediscourses.
These predictions are also comparedwith the predictions according to Webber (1991).Neither theory adequately explains the resultsof the current experiment.
Thus the presentationconcludes with an outline of a proposed computa-tional theory.2 BackgroundGenerally speaking, events are referred to bypronominal expressions such as that or this: 1(1) (a) John hated snakes.
(b) His neighbourhad kept snakes, (c) and he had been bit-1The sequence is a slightly altered example takenfrom Webber (1991).ten by a snake once.
(d) This was unfor-tunate.The pronoun this in (ld) may refer to the en-tire situation described by (la) through (lc).
Butthere are other conceivable antecedents for this.The situation described by (lc) may be referredto by this as well, if we consider an alternation of(ld) as in the following:(1') d'.
This was quite dangerous.The example discourse illustrates that the dis-course in (la-c) is organised hierarchically andconsists of different discourse segments (e.g.
(la-c) and (lb-c)).
Webber (1991) points out thatevents are only available for anaphoric referencewhen they are mentioned by the last utterance(e.g.
(lc)) or by the situation that is constructedby the preceding discourse segment (e.g.
(1a-c)).The right frontier hypothesis reflects this observa-tion as shown by bold typeset in figure 1.
The dis-(1 (a,(b,c)))(la) ( l (b,c))(lb) ( lc)Figure 1: The discourse structure for (1a-c)course structure also influences how we conceptu-alise situations described in a text.
In particular,a segment in (la-c) establishes a complex eventthat can be referred to.3 P red ic t ionsUnfortunately, there is much disagreement be-tween theoretical pproaches to discourse process-ing on what exactly is available on the right fron-tier.
The tree structure proposed by Webber, forexample, contains the semantic ontent groupedtogether for the entire segment.283Proceedings of EACL '99'This refers to explanation elaborationsegment: (e.g.
(2)) (e.g.
(3))abC(b-c)(a-c)2.08%9.72%69.44%18.06%0.69%9.49%37.97%38.61%13.29%0.63%Table 1: Results of the sentence completion taskAsher (1993), on the other hand, defines openattachment sites of the discourse structure by theterm openness via rhetorical relations.
Only elab-oration and explanation allow reference to an-tecedents mentioned in sentences other than thecurrent one.
An explanation relation holds, forexample, between (2b) and (2c) (and elaborationbetween (3b) and (3c) see below):(2) (a) Peter was sitting in his chair at home.
(b) All of a sudden, he stood up.
(c) Thedoorbell had rung.
This was...Following Webber's account, this can only refer tothe situation described by the last utterance (2c)or the situations described by the sentences (2b-c)or (2a-c), but not to (2a) and (2c).In contrast, SDRT predicts that the situationsdescribed by sentence (2b) or (2c) are available,but not by (2a) nor any combined situation.Consequently, the empirical investigation fo-cuses especially on the question of which describedevents are available for further attachments andevent anaphora depending on the chosen rhetori-cal relation (i.e.
explanation or elaboration).4 Experimental dataSix ambiguous equences such as (2) or (3) werepresented to 115 participants.
They were askedfirst to continue the sentences and then to specifyexplicitly what this referred to.
(3) Saturday was Jerry's birthday.
Severalstudents organized a dinner for Jerry.Some students had written fancy invita-tion cards.
This was...Note that the results as shown by table 1 can-not be explained by either theoretical approach.The results for the explanation relation is best ex-plained by Webber, since either the last mentionedsituation or a combined situation of the segments(2b-c) were most often chosen by the participants.On the other hand, results for the elaboration re-lation contradict he predictions made.
The sit-uation described by (3b) should not be availableaccording to Webber's account, instead an ambi-guity between (3b) and (3c) can be observed forthis sequence.
This would be predicted by SDRT.But SDRT cannot explain the combination of twosituations that was chosen by subjects 18% of thetime for an explanation relation.
2Results suggest hat the type of rhetorical re-lation has a crucial influence.
An explanation re-lation linking (2b) and (2c) focuses on the sen-tence describing the cause (i.e.
the last utterance),whereas an elaboration relation as in (3) estab-lishes an ambiguous sequence between the last twodescribed situations.
In addition, note that a sig-nificant proportion of the participants referred toa combined event regardless of the rhetorical rela-tion.5 A computational modelA computational model could benefit from the re-sults presented in this paper.
First, the choice ofrhetorical relation should affect the way possibleantecedents are represented for anaphora resolu-tion.
Second, the current data as well as data fromreading experiments, for instance, could be usedto determine the likelihood of possible attachmentsites in the discourse structure.However, another question remains: whatshould the representation f a complex event looklike?
The tree structure proposed by Webber con-tains the semantic ontent grouped together forthe entire segment.
It seems more plausible thatat a higher level of a discourse some form of ab-straction takes place.Future research must focus on the informationthat is available from preceding text and whatis obtainable for anaphoric expressions uch asdemonstrative pronouns and definite descriptions.ReferencesNicholas Asher.
1993.
Reference to abstract Ob-jects in Discourse.
Kluwer Academic Publish-ers, Dordrecht.Barbara Fox.
1987.
Discourse structure andanaphora.
Cambridge University Press.Barbara J. Grosz, Aravind Joshi, and Scott Wein-stein.
1995.
Centering: A framework for mod-elling the local coherence of discourse.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 21(2):203-225.Bonnie L. Webber.
1991.
Structure and ostensionin the interpretation of discourse deixis.
Lan-guage and Cognitive Processes, 6(2):107-135.2Stories within each category differed in the num-ber of subjects referring to a combined situation (b-c).The numbers presented here are the averages acrossthe stories.284
