Using Speech and Language Technology to CoachReadingPatti PriceFormerly BravoBrava!
LLCNow PPRICE Speech and Language1-650-503-7053pjp@pprice.comLuc JuliaBravoBrava!
LLC32980 AlvaradoNiles Road, Suite 856Union City, CA 945871-510-477-0493Julia@bravobrava.comABSTRACTBravoBrava!
is expanding the repertoire of commercial userinterfaces by incorporating multimodal techniques combiningtraditional point and click interfaces with speech recognition,speech synthesis, and gesture recognition.
One of theseapplications is software to help children read.
While the childreads aloud, the computer keeps the child on track and offersfeedback when the child has difficulty.
The feedback can be assubtle as changing the text color for a well articulated phrase or asfriendly as a cartoon character that talks.
The computer isinfinitely patient and can keep detailed records of the child'sprogress.
The reading software is being commercialized byBravoBrava!
?s spinoff company, SUP Inc.Keywords: Reading, pedagogyFigure 1.
Here is an example from a sample story.
The systemtracks the reading and intervenes when help is needed.
Thisscreen shows a sample intervention if the child stumbles on theword ?butterflies?.1.
INTRODUCTIONOur vision is to use technology to provide a high-quality, low costreading coach that delivers voice-activated reading instruction,practice, and assessment over electronic media.
Reading isfundamental; it can also be fun.
However, about 40% ofmainstream 4th graders cannot read at the basic level.
One of ourcountry?s critical needs is to improve reading performance for allchildren since their future, both individually and together,depends on literacy.
Reading level predicts economicperformance for both individuals and societies.Beyond the basics, as reviewed in the recent report of the NationalReading Panel (2000), engaging children in supported oralreading is the most valuable means toward building their readingproficiency.
At present, however, the only means of givingchildren such practice is by finding a human adult who will sitwith them and help them.
However, technology can provide anautomated reading coach to break through this bottleneck, so thatevery child in every school can get the support that she or heneeds.
This technology will help reduce the digital divide, andprovide an unprecedented level of tracking data to leverageteachers?
instruction and assessment efforts and to build the nextgeneration of intervention techniques.2.
SUP?S APPROACHSUP targets the stage at which children have learned the letter tosound rules but are still struggling to gain vocabulary and fluency.This stage has sometimes been called the transition from ?learningto read?
to ?reading to learn?
and comes just after the stagerequiring explicit pronunciation and vocabulary tutoring,provided by Mostow?s Project Listen at CMU and other readingsoftware.
At this stage in reading development, language skillsare usually too poor to make traditional dictionaries much of ahelp.
Dictionaries disrupt the child?s focus on the text being read,offer too many definitions, and usually provide definitions that areharder for the child to read than the original text.
Instead, SUPprovides a generalized ?dictionary?, the Reading Resource, to giveimmediate context specific help when needed, much the way ahuman reading coach might intervene.
?SUPplementing?
textwith the Reading Resource, which includes word definitions,sample sentences, graphics and multimedia can create an engagingenvironment for learning.
However, the immediacy and context-specificity of this resource aims to maintain the child?s focus onthe material being read.
Becoming engaged in the text itself is thereal goal of reading.
SUPplementation can make texts accessibleto children that would otherwise be above their reading level, sothat the content of the text can draw them into the desire to read.Vocabulary and grammatical knowledge grow with experience ofmore words in more contexts.Figure 2.
The screen shot above a sample after the child hasasked for a display of how well the selection was read.SUP has developed a modular architecture that allows for rapidreconfiguration:?
The current demonstration uses Microsoft speechrecognition software.
However, the architecturesupports the use of other recognizers, and we haveexperimented with others for use on other platforms.?
The audio outputs can be from recorded waveforms or,for maximum flexibility, can use a text to speechsynthesis system.?
Any text can flow through the system for readingpractice.Although explicit measures, such as a quiz to assesscomprehension or vocabulary, can be included, several automaticmeasures are important by-products of use of the tool:?
Total number of words read by session, and which werefluent or not?
Words per minute as a function of time?
Level of the material read as a function of time?
Number of times intervention of the Reading Resourcewas used?
Number of times the child had the story read to him/her?
The actual recordings of what was read3.
FUTURE DIRECTIONSOf course, such software will not help unless it gets into the handsof the children who need it.
Therefore, an important strategy ofthe company is to support as many different platforms as possibleto enable this goal.
The modular architecture of the systemfacilitates transition to various platforms.
Similarly, to be ofmaximal interest to the most children, we need as much appealingcontent as possible.
In the area of human language technology,we hope such technology will evolve to automatically provide:?
Context-specific definitions?
Context-specific and child-specific synonyms?
Rewriting of complex phrases into simpler onesSolving these problems completely is a major research project.However, we believe that with careful matchmaking between thetechnical possibilities and the real needs of beginning readers thatprogress can be made in the near term.We hope that experience in the usability trials, just beginning, willalso help us to plan similar products for adult language learnersand learners of English as a second language.
Reading is still theprincipal way that people learn information.
In this informationage, reading well is crucial to the individual and to society.
