English-Chinese CLIR using a Simplified PIRCS SystemK.L.
Kwok, N. Dinstl and P. DengComputer Science Department, Queens College, CUNY65-30 Kissena Blvd.Flushing, N.Y. 11367kwok@ir.cs.qc.eduABSTRACTA GUI is presented with our PIRCS retrieval system forsupporting English-Chinese cross language information retrieval.The query translation approach is employed using the LDCbilingual wordlist.
Given an English query, different translationmethods and their retrieval results can be demonstrated.1.
INTRODUCTIONThe purpose of cross language information retrieval (CLIR) is toallow a user to search, retrieve, and gain some contentunderstanding of documents written in a language different fromthe one that the user is familiar with.
This is to be accomplishedautomatically without expert linguist assistance.
CLIR is ofgrowing importance because it can literally open up a wholeworld of information for the user, especially with the ease andconvenience of access and delivery of foreign documentsprovided by Internet logistics nowadays.
Searching and retrievingChinese documents via English is a major sub-problem withinCLIR because many people in the world use these two languages.For example, one would expect trade between China and the U.S.(and other countries) to grow significantly in the near futurebecause of the impending WTO membership for China.Monitoring trends and status information from Chinese sourcesmay be an essential operation for organizations interested in theseaffairs.
Chinese is a language completely different from English,and it is conceived to be difficult for foreigners to learn.
Thispaper describes some of the methods that we employ to deal withthis problem, and presents a demonstrable system to illustrate theworkings of cross language document retrieval.
In Section 2,techniques for the query translation approach to CLIR arediscussed.
Section 3 contains a description of our simplifiedPIRCS retrieval system that is the basis for monolingual retrieval.Section 4 describes the GUI supporting interactive query input,document output and other implementation issues, and Section 5contains our conclusion and future work.2.
STRATEGY FOR CROSS LANGUAGEINFORMATION RETRIEVALWhen faced with the situation of a language mismatch betweenthe target documents and the query (information need statement)of a user, one could reduce them to a common representationlanguage for retrieval purposes by automatically translating thequery to the document language, by translating the documents tothe query language, or by converting both to a third representationlanguage [1].
By far the simplest and most common approachseems to be the first method, and probably as effective as theothers, and we have also taken this route.
The question is whattools to use for query translation.It is well known that machine translation is generally fuzzy andinaccurate [6].
This is particularly true when translation outputare judged by humans, who tend to be unforgiving.
However,translation for machine consumption (such as for informationretrieval (IR)) may not be so bad because IR can operate with abag of content terms without grammar, coherence or readability.What IR needs is that important content terms are correctlycovered, even at the expense of noise translations.
For thispurpose, we have combined two different methods of querytranslation to hedge for errors and improve coverage, viz.dictionary translation and MT software.2.1  Translation Using LDC Bilingual WordlistOne method we employ is dictionary translation using the LDCChinese-English bilingual wordlist (www.morph.ldc.edu/Projects/Chinese) which we label as ldc2ce.
It has about 120K entries.Each entry maps a Chinese character sequence (character, word orphrase) into one or more English explanation strings delimitedwith slashes.
Sample entries are shown below:1) ??
/gather/assembly/meeting/convocation/2) ??
/parts/components/assembly/..3) ?
/assembly hall/auditorium/..4) ?7 /legislative assembly/5) ?
? /legislative council/..When an English word from a query is looked up in the ldc2cewordlist, it will usually be mapped into many Chinese terms andreduction of the output is necessary.
For this disambiguationpurpose, we employ several methods in succession as tabulatedbelow:?
Dictionary structure-based: ldc2ce format is employedto select the more correct mappings among wordtranslations.
For example, when the word to translate is?assembly?, we would pick line 1) and 2) only, ratherthan the additional 3) or 4) because in the latter two,?assembly?
appears in context with other words.?
Phrase-based: ld2ce can also be regarded as a phrasedictionary by matching query strings with Englishexplanations of Chinese terms, giving much moreaccurate phrase translations.
For example, if ?legislativeassembly?
appears in a query, it would match line 4)exactly and correctly, and would supersede all othersingle word translations such as those from lines 1), 2),3) and 5).?
Corpus frequency-based: for single word translationswith many candidates, those with higher occurrencefrequency usually have higher probability of beingcorrect.?
Weight-based: a Chinese term set translated for oneEnglish word can be considered as a synonym set, sothat each individual Chinese term is weighted with theinverse of the sum of the collection frequencies, andgenerally gives more effective retrieval.These dictionary disambiguation techniques have beenimplemented and tested with TREC collections.
In general, theyaccumulatively lead to successively more accurate retrievals [4].Their output can be demonstrated in our system.2.2  Translation Using MT SoftwareCOTS MT software for English to Chinese (or vice versa) arenow quite readily available on the market.
They cost from scoresto about a thousand dollars for a single license.
These softwaremostly operate on the PC Windows platform.
Their codes areproprietary and usually do not come with an API.
Interfacingthem with a UNIX and C platform thus becomes quite difficultand perhaps impossible.
However, if one runs retrieval from aWindows environment, one can ?cut and paste?
from theirtranslation results.
We investigated several and found that onefrom Mainland China called HuaJian (www.atlan.com) performsquite well.
A number of other such packages can also bedemonstrated within our system.Once an English query has been translated into Chinese, we canperform monolingual Chinese IR using our PIRCS systemdescribed in the next section.
The two translation outcomes, fromdictionary and MT software, can be combined for retrieval and thefinal result is usually more effective than single translationmethod alone [3].3.
A SIMPLIFIED PIRCS RETRIEVALSYSTEMPIRCS (Probabilistic Indexing and Retrieval ?
Components ?System) is our in-house developed document retrieval system thathas participated in all previous TREC large-scale blind retrievalexperiments with consistently good results.
It supports bothEnglish and Chinese languages.
PIRCS retrieval approach isbased on the probabilistic indexing and retrieval methods, butextended with the ability to account for the influence of termfrequencies and item length of documents or queries.
PIRCS canbest be viewed as activation spreading in a three- layer network,.......diDQTqatkwakwka wkiwikDTQQTDdoc-focused qry-focusedRSVd= k wik*wkaRSVq= k wak*wkiRSV = a*RSVq + (1-a)*RSVdFigure 1.
3-Layer PIRCS NetworkFigure 1, that also supports learning from user-judged or pseudo-relevant documents.
The details of our model are given in [4, 5].As shown in Figure 1, PIRCS treats queries and documents asobjects of the same kind.
They form a Q and a D layer of nodesconnecting to the middle layer of term nodes.
Retrieval meansspreading activation from a query node via common term nodes toa document node and summed into a retrieval status value RSVdfor ranking.
This operation is gated by intervening edges withweights that are set according to the PIRCS model.
An analogousoperation is to spread activation from document to query nodes,resulting in another RSVq that has been shown to have similarityto a simple language model [2, 4].
The final retrieval status valueRSV is a linear combination of the two.Documents are pre-processed to create a direct file, an invertedfile and a master dictionary that contains all the content terms andtheir usage statistics extracted from the collection.
Afterappropriate processing, the master dictionary helps construct themiddle layer T nodes of Figure 1.
The direct file facilitatesobtaining the terms and statistics contained in a given document,and helps construct the D node and D-to-T edges with weights.The inverted file facilitates obtaining the posting information of agiven term, and helps construct the T-to-D edges with weights.At query time, a Q layer of one node is formed and the queryterms are located on the T layer and linked in to define the Q-to-Tand T-to-Q edges with weights.Once the 3-layer network is defined, ranking of documents for thequery is achieved by activation spreading Q-T-D realizing thedocument-focused retrieval status value RSVd, and vice versa forthe query-focused RSVq.
They are then linearly combined.
Thiscrosslingual PIRCS demonstration runs either on a SUN Solaris orLinux platform.
The current implementation is a simplification ofour batch PIRCS system and does not support automatic two-stage retrieval for pseudo-relevance feedback.
However, userscan interactively modify their queries to perform manualfeedback.4.
GUI FOR INTERACTIVE CLIRA simplified PIRCS system with first stage retrieval will be usedfor demonstrating English-Chinese CLIR.
This system is basedon an applet-servlet model that runs on a UNIX operating system(such as Solaris or Linux).
User?s interaction with PIRCS issupported via a GUI based on the Netscape browser (InternetExplorer is a better browser for this GUI, but UNIX has Netscapeonly).
The applet or HTML forms in the browser communicatewith the servlet on the Apache server.
The servlet works as abridge between the front-end program (in HTML and applet) andthe background programs that do the translation or retrieval.Based on the input from the user, it can dispatch calls to theretrieval system and then format the output and send results backto the applet or directly into user?s browser through a customizedapplet-servlet channel via HTTP protocol.A GUI software that is modeled on that of ZPRISE(www.itl.nist.gov/iaui/894.02/works/papers/zp2/zp2.html) butenhanced for CLIR will be demonstrated.
The GUI supports fivewindows: one for English query input and editing, a translationwindow for displaying the Chinese terms mapped from theEnglish query via the ldc2ce wordlist, a search-result window fordisplaying the fifty top-ranked document identities after retrieval,a document box for displaying the content of the current selecteddocument in Chinese, and another index box showing the indexterms used for retrieval together with their frequency statistics.This allows a user to do CLIR interactively.If run in a Windows environment, the translation box also allowsinput and editing for those users who know some Chinese.
In thistest system, all Chinese are GB-encoded.
A query of a few wordscurrently takes a few seconds for translation and about 20 secondsor more for retrieval depending on the number of unique terms.This response time can be improved in the future.A typical screen of the GUI is shown in Figure 2.
A user starts bytyping in an English query in free text.
When the ?Convert toChinese GB?
button is clicked, translation via the LDC dictionarylook-up based on a default (best) option will be displayed.
Otheroptions for translation such as using dictionary-structure only, addphrase matching, or include target collection frequencydisambiguation, etc.
(Section 2.1) can be chosen.
If the user findstoo many English words left un-translated, s/he can re-phrase theEnglish query wordings and repeat the process.
Otherwise, theretrieval button can be clicked and the top 50 document ID?s willbe displayed in the search-result box (below the translation) sortedby the retrieval status value shown next to each ID.
Content ofthe top document is also displayed automatically in the largewindow with index terms high-lighted.
Additional documentsfollowing the one displayed can also be brought in for browsingpurposes..!JN 65537 .
!TI  pd9311.150201 THE!AB1?;?c????
?Z?mVvs?#?;?????x???VHy8?????Y?u6?
1????;?c??????
?Z?m???vs?{|??V???m?u???"1?????z???)?b?z*??????|Wq?c?u???m?TcH?
?|????!?:T?Y???q"???_c?Y!}???
?%K?*a??|??????$???"1?y|c??
lT?????]?Y??
?Z|??c?Y????Y???|??c?Y??!??8?9`?q?u`p"1??|HTc??]?Y??
?Z|?4?????*??|???#Y?*Vr5Z?Ye"1?=|WqcH????
?Z?m??F?|?u6????j"xayU.S.
to separate the most-favored-nationstatus from human rights issue in China^1.00 c?
^^1.00 ?  ^^1.00??
?^^1.00Z^^1.00?^^0.20 ??
0.20 Z?
0.20 ?
!0.20V?0.20V?^^1.00#^Z?7737?16548Z15765?5811c?19471pd9202-446300  1.5795pd9202-446200  1.4633pd9311-150201  1.4494pd9304-241800  1.4196C02bKBBW09Q<m  1.3629pd9207-484400  1.3556pd9304-248000  1.2974Clear Convert into Chinese GBKeywords used to search are:64 1RetrieveClearShow documents in new windowTop 50 documentsFigure 2.
GUI for Cross Language Information RetrievalIf the user knows some Chinese, s/he can have more options forinteraction.
For example, the user can ?cut and paste?
terms thats/he likes during perusal of the retrieved documents to dorelevance feedback manually.
In addition, the query index terms(in Chinese) and their document frequencies are also displayedat the right hand bottom of the screen.
They can provide usefulinformation about the query and can help the user make changesto it.As discussed before, we also make use of COTS MT softwarefor query translation.
These can also be demonstratedseparately.
However, these packages are proprietary, run underWindows platform, and are not interfaced with our retrievalsystem that is Linux based.
Another set-up that we candemonstrate is to use a Windows platform to run InternetExplorer that is also compatible with our GUI.
Internetconnection will have to be made to our home computers atQueens College.
In this case, an MT software can be running inthe background for query translation.
The translation result canthen be ?cut and paste?
to the translation window of our GUI.Users can compare retrieval results based on our dictionaryapproach and the MT software.
Alternatively, both translationscan be combined to improve retrieval.5.
CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORKEnglish-Chinese CLIR is an important topic in HumanLanguage Technology and has great utility.
This projectdemonstration combines simple translation with IR to provide aworkable solution to CLIR.
It is an ongoing project andeventually can help non-Chinese speaking users access Chinesetext in a reasonable fashion.
Our next step is to add capability toshow gistings of a retrieved Chinese document in English toassist the user in understanding the document content.
Fastermachines and upgrading of the programs would also providespeedier response time.6.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work was partially supported by the Space and NavalWarfare Systems Center San Diego, under grant No.
N66001-1-8912.7.
REFERENCES[1] Grefenstette, G. Cross Language Information Retrieval.Kluwer, 1998.
[2] Hiemstra, D & Kraaj, W. Twenty-One at TREC-7:ad-hocand cross language track.
In: Information Technology: TheSeventh Text Retrieval Conference (TREC-7).
E.M.Voorhees& D.K.
Harman, (eds.
), NIST Special Publication 500-242,GPO: Washington, D.C, 227-238, 1999.
[3] Kwok, K.L, Grunfeld, L., Dinstl, N & Chan, M. TREC-9cross-lingual, web and question-answering trackexperiments using PIRCS (Draft).
Preliminary paper atTREC-9 Conference, Gaithersburg, MD, Nov, 2000.
[4] Kwok, K.L.
Improving English and Chinese ad-hoc retrieval:a Tipster Text Phase 3 project report.
Information Retrieval,3(4):313-338, 2000.
[5] Kwok, K.L.
A network approach to probabilistic informationretrieval.
ACM Transactions on Office Information System,13:324-353, July 1995.
[6] Nirenburg, S, Carbonell, J, Tomita, M & Goodman, K.(Eds.)
MT: A Knowledge-Based Approach.
MorganKaufmann, 1994.
