NewsInEssence: A System For Domain-Independent,Real-Time News Clustering and Multi-DocumentSummarizationDragomir R. Radev?y, Sasha Blair-Goldensohn?, Zhu Zhang?, Revathi Sundara Raghavany?School of InformationyDepartment of EECSUniversity of MichiganAnn Arbor, MI 48109fradev,sashabg,zhuzhang,rsundarag@umich.edu1.
INTRODUCTIONNEWSINESSENCE is a system for finding, visualizing and sum-marizing a topic-based cluster of news stories.
In the generic sce-nario for NEWSINESSENCE, a user selects a single news story froma news Web site.
Our system then searches other live sources ofnews for other stories related to the same event and produces sum-maries of a subset of the stories that it finds, according to parame-ters specified by the user.2.
THE NEWSINESSENCE SYSTEMNewsInEssence?s search agent, NewsTroll, runs in two phases.First, it looks for related articles by traversing links from the pagecontaining the seed article.
Using the seed article and any relatedarticles it finds in this way, the agent then decides on a set of key-words for further search.
In the second phase, it attempts to addto the cluster of related articles by going to the search engines ofvarious news websites and using the keywords which it found inthe first phase as search terms.In both phases, NewsTroll selectively follows hyperlinks withthe aim of reaching pages which contain related stories and/or fur-ther hyperlinks to related stories pages.Both general and site-specific rules help NewsTroll determinewhich URLs are likely to be useful.
Only if NewsTroll determinesthat a URL is ?interesting?, will it go to the Internet to fetch the newpage.
A more stringent set of rules are applied to determine whetherthe URL is likely to be a news story itself.
If so, the similarityof its text to that of the original seed page is computed using anIDF-weighted vector measure.
If the similarity is above a certainthreshold, the page is considered to contain a related article andadded to the cluster.
The user may use our web interface (Figure 2)to adjust the similarity threshold used in a given search.Using several levels of filtering, NewsTroll is able to screen outlarge numbers web pages quite efficiently.
The expensive opera-tion of testing lexical similarity is reserved for the small number of.pages which NewsTroll finds interesting.
Consequently, the agentcan return useful results in real time.3.
ANNOTATED SAMPLE RUNThe example begins when we find a news article we would liketo read more about.
In this case we pick a story is about a break-ing story regarding one of President-Elect Bush?s cabinet nominees(see Figure 1).We input the URL using the web interface of the NEWSINESSENCEsystem, then select our search options, click ?Proceed?
and wait forour results (see Figure 2).In response to the user query, NewsTroll begins looking for re-lated articles linked from the chosen start page.
In a selection fromthe agent?s output log in Figure 3, we can see that it extracts andtests links from the page, and decides to test one which looks like anews article.
We then see that it tests this article and determines itto be related.
This article is added to the initial cluster, from whichthe list of top keywords is drawn.In its secondary phase, NewsTroll inputs its keywords to thesearch engines of news sites and lets them do the work of find-ing stories.
Since we have selected good keywords, most of thelinks seen by NewsTroll in this part of the search are indeed relatedarticles (see Figure 4).
Upon exiting, NewsTroll reports the num-ber of links it has considered, followed, tested, and retrieved (seeFigure 4).The system?s web interface reports its progress to the user in realtime and provides a link to the visualization GUI once the clusteris complete (Figure 5).
Using the GUI, the user can select which ofthe articles to summarize (see Figures 6 and 7).
Figure 8 shows theoutput of the cluster summarizer.4.
FUTURE WORKWe are currently working on the integration of Cross-Documentstructure theory (CST) [1] with NEWSINESSENCE.
CST is used todescribe relations between textual units in multi-document clusters.It is used for example to identify which portions of a cluster containbackground information, which sections are redundant, and whichones contain additional information about an event.5.
REFERENCES[1] Dragomir Radev.
A common theory of information fusionfrom multiple text sources, step one: Cross-documentstructure.
In Proceedings, 1st ACL SIGDIAL Workshop onDiscourse and Dialogue, Hong Kong, October 2000.Figure 1: Seed article.Figure 2: User interface.Figure 3: Run-time log (part I).Figure 4: Run-time log (part II).Figure 5: System progress.Figure 6: Cluster visualization.Figure 7: Selected articles.Figure 8: Summarization interface.
