LinguatronicProduct-Level Speech System for Mercedes-Benz CarsPaul HeisterkampDaimlerChrysler AGResearch and TechnologySpeech UnderstandingWilhelm-Runge-Str.
11, D-89081 Ulm, GermanyTel.
+49 731 505 2152Paul.Heisterkamp@DaimlerChrysler.com1.
INTRODUCTIONA recent press release (Murray 2000) indicates that many carmanufacturers have announced speech recognition and voice-operated Command&Control systems for their cars, but so farhave not introduced any.
They are still struggling withtechnology, both in reliability and pricing.
The article finishes bya quote from an industry person saying:"The reality is that today?s systems are still failingin a lot of different modes.
[...] But the technology willget better before it reaches the market.
Right now, wejust don?t know when that will be.
"In the light of this statement, we consider it appropriate in thecontext of a scientific conference, to draw the attention of thespeech and language community to the fact that in-car speech ison the market, and successfully so, since fall 1996 in Germanyand since May 1999 in the USA.2.
LINGUATRONICIn the S-Class car of 1996, Mercedes-Benz introduced the firstgeneration of Linguatronic.
Linguatronic is the brand name usedin Europe of a speech dialogue system that allows completelyhands-free operation of the car?s mobile phone, including numberdialing (with connected digit dialog), number storing, user-defined telephone directory entry name, name dialing, anddirectory editing.
Linguatronic I has a vocabulary of about 30speaker-independent words (digits and control words).
Thesecond version has a vocabulary of about 300 words, and, inaddition, allows for operation of comfort electronics (radio, CD-player/changer, air condition etc).
The system is now available forGerman, US English, UK English, Italian, Spanish, French andSwiss-German.
Japanese and Dutch are currently underdevelopment.3.
ORGANIZATIONThe basic algorithms incorporated in Linguatronic are developedby the Speech Understanding group of DaimlerChrysler Researchand Technology in Ulm, Germany.
These algorithms then aretaken up by the Speech Processing Division of DaimlerChrysler?sTEMIC business unit and put into products.
These products arefirst marketed exclusively to the Mercedes-Benz premium brandof DaimlerChrysler, but in time, they are available to other brandsand manufacturers as well.
This reflects the Mercedes-Benzphilosophy that safety-enhancing technology should be deployedby everybody.
Thus, the speech technology from Temic iscurrently also available in BMW?s and Audi?s, with other carmakers and suppliers to follow shortly with their top products..4.
TECHNOLOGYThe recognizer used in Linguatronic is speaker independentHMM-based.
For the user definable telephone directory, anadditional DTW recognizer is used.
A key issue for speechtechnology in the car, noise reduction, is achieved by anintegrated signal pre-processing that reduces the influence ofnoise and other sources of interference to improve the quality ofthe  recognition.
Furthermore, the system automatically andimperceptibly adapts itself to the characteristics of the speaker'svoice or the acoustic background within vehicles.
So, the keytechnology features are:?
Noise Robustness?
Echo Cancellation for hands-free telephone applications?
Continuous speaker independent speech recognition?
Speaker dependent recognition?
Active vocabulary of about 300 words?
Background adaptation?
Dynamically loadable vocabularyNow, from the recognizer side, that doesn?t seem too muchdifferent to what other speech companies and research groupsoffer.
Yet, recognition accuracy is at a very high level.
What is it,then, that makes the difference?
Obviously, training of speechdata plays a major role here, but others (e.g.
the SpeechDat-Carproject) have done major data gathering exercises as well.
So,we?ll point here to some items that are not naturally in the focusof the scientific community, viz.
integration, co-operation andengineering.5.
INTEGRATIONAll upper-level cars of the major European makers these days areequipped with a data bus system, sometimes still over copperwire, but mostly using fiber optics.
The Temic system supports themost common automotive bus systems like D2B, CAN, I-Bus andin the near future MOST.
This means that a multitude of deviceson the bus can be addressed and operated using a single and uni-form speech dialogue module, and there is no need to put extrawiring in the car.
Furthermore, the push-to-activate (PTA) button,muting of the audio and use of the car?s loudspeakers arefacilitated, and, very important, the same microphone can be usedfor both speech commands and telephone.
The quality of themicrophone (or an array), its characteristics and its positioning areextremely important.6.
CO-OPERATIONThis kind of close integration can only be achieved in an equallyclose co-operation with the car manufacturer.
The speechCommand&Control has to fit smoothly into the overall human-machine-interface for the driver.
From the position of the PTAbutton or lever, via the cancellation function to the analogousbehavior of speech and tactile operation of devices, everything hasto be done to ensure that speech is an integrated and natural partof the interaction.
Fallback modes must be made available in casespeech fails.
The auto maker must also be aware that even ifrecognition were one-hundred-percent accurate, people do notalways say what they mean or know what they can say, so therewill be failures.7.
ENGINEERINGAnd, of course, the car manufacturer also knows which pricepeople are willing to pay.
The key issue now is the engineeringtask to deliver a product with a certain quality standard for acertain price.
Besides software solutions, Temic currently offerstwo harware versions of its Command&Control system for cars,one as a plug-in board the size of a credit card, the other as a self-contained box that interfaces directly to the bus and does notrequire any host processor.
Both not only do the recognition, butalso store the speech output for the dialogue.
And: at arecognition rate that convinced not only Mercedes-Benz, but alsoothers who have a reputation for quality, Linguatronic, under thelabel ?voice recognition?
sells in the US as part of a mobile phonepackage for a retail price of $480.00; the majority of integratedphones in Mercedes-Benz cars in the US is ordered with thisoption.
Up to the end of the year 2000, Temic has sold more than170,000 units for automotive applications..8.
OUTLOOKThe scientific community is well aware that speech in cars is theenabling technology to interactively and selectively bring newsand information to mobile environments without causing a safetyhazard (cf., e.g.
ElBoghdady 2000).
Yet, we all have seen tides ofenthusiasm and reluctance towards the real-life viability of speechtechnology.
With telephony applications now firmly established,any discussion as to whether speech technology is a commerciallyviable option also for use in vehicles can be abbreviated bypointing at the Linguatronic example.
Speech technology is there,and it will grow.
More auto makers, but also system-providers likeBosch will soon be out with more complex applications,navigation address entry being the point in question, more carswill have speech control as an option, and, in our area of research,we are pushing the limits of what can be done in research projectsboth internal and co-operative, e.g.
in the DARPA Communicator.9.
REFERENCES[1] ElBoghdady, Dina (2000): Feds fear high-tech car gear.Detnews.com, 23 January 2000.
[2] Images thanks to http://www.temic.com/speech[3] Murray, Charles J.
(2000): Automakers struggle withspeech recognition technology (03 December 2000).http://www.eet.com/story/industry/systems_and_software_news/OEG20001201S0109
