A Conversational Interface for Online ShoppingJoyce Chai, Veronika Horvath, Nanda Kambhatla, Nicolas Nicolov & Margo Stys-BudzikowskaConversational Dialog SystemsIBM T. J. Watson Research Center30 Saw Mill River Rd, Hawthorne, NY 10532, USA{jchai, veronika, nanda, nicolas, sm1}@us.ibm.comABSTRACTWe present a deployed, conversational dialog system that assistsusers in finding computers based on their usage patterns andconstraints on specifications.
We discuss findings from a marketsurvey and two user studies.
We compared our system to a directeddialog system and a menu driven navigation system.
We found thatthe conversational interface reduced the average number of clicks by63% and the average interaction time by 33% over a menu drivensearch system.
The focus of our continuing work includesdeveloping a dynamic, adaptive dialog management strategy,robustly handling user input and improving the user interface.1.
INTRODUCTIONConversational interfaces allow users to interact with automatedsystems using speech or typed in text via "conversational dialog".For the purposes of this paper, a conversational dialog consists of asequence of interactions between a user and a system.
The userinput is interpreted in the context of previous user inputs in thecurrent session and from previous sessions.Conversational interfaces offer greater flexibility to users thanmenu-driven (i.e., directed-dialog) interfaces, where users navigatemenus that have a rigid structure [5,4].
Conversational interfacespermit users to ask queries directly in their own words.
Thus, usersdo not have to understand the terminology used by system designersto label hyperlinks on a website or internalize the hierarchicalmenus of a telephone system [3] or websites.Recently, conversational interfaces for executing simple transactionsand for finding information are proliferating [7,6].
In this paper, wepresent a conversational dialog system, Natural Language Assistant(or NLA), that helps users shop for notebook computers and discussthe results of user studies that we conducted with this system.2.
NATURAL LANGUAGE ASSISTANTNLA assists users in finding notebooks that satisfy their needs byengaging them in a dialog.
At each turn of the dialog, NLA providesincremental feedback about its understanding of the user'sconstraints and shows products that match these constraints.
Byencouraging iterative refinement of the user's query, the systemfinds more user constraints and, ultimately, recommends a productthat best matches the user's criteria.The system consists of three major modules (cf.
Figure 1):Presentation Manager, Dialog Manager, and Action Manager.
ThePresentation Manager interprets user input and generates systemresponses.
It embodies the user interface and contains a shallowsemantic parser and a response generator.
The semantic parseridentifies concepts (e.g., MULTIMEDIA) and constraints onproduct attributes (e.g., hard disk size more than 20GB) from thetextual user input.
The concepts mediate the mapping between userinput and available products through product specifications.
Theyimplement the business logic.The Dialog Manager uses the current requirements and formulatesaction plans for the Action Manager to perform back-end operations(e.g., database access1).
The Dialog Manager constructs a responseto the user based on the results from the Action Manager and thediscourse history and sends the system response to the PresentationManager that displays it to the user.
The system prompts for featuresrelevant in the current context.
In our mixed initiative dialogsystem, the user can always answer the specific question put tohim/her or provide any constraints.The system has been recently deployed on an external website.Figure 2 shows the start of a dialog.21 See [1] for a survey of natural language interfaces to databases.2 We are demonstrating the system at HLT?2001 [2].ManagerPresentationManagertelephonePDAwebConversationalDialog ManagerUSERAPIsspeech,text,..NLPServicesHistoryActionManagerApplicationActionTemplatesetc...APIsDiscourseHistoryFigure 1.
Architecture of the NLA conversational system.3.
USER STUDIESWe conducted a preliminary market survey and two user studiesdescribed in subsections 3.1 and 3.2 respectively.3.1 Market SurveyFor understanding specific user needs and user vocabulary, weconducted a user survey.
Users were given three sets of questions.The first set, in turn, contained three questions: "What kind ofnotebook computer are you looking for?
", "What features areimportant to you?
", and "What do you plan to use this notebookcomputer for?".
By applying statistical n-gram models and ashallow noun phrase grammar to the user responses, we extractedkeywords and phrases expressing user's needs and interests.
In thesecond set of questions, users were asked to rank 10 randomlyselected terms from 90 notebook related terms in order offamiliarity to them.
The third set of questions asked fordemographical information about users such as their gender, yearsof experience with notebook computers, native language, etc.
Wecomputed correlations between vocabulary/terms and userdemographic information.
Over a 30-day period, we received 705survey responses.
From these responses, we learned 195 keywordsand phrases that were included in NLA.3.2 Usability Testing3.2.1 Experimental SetupWe conducted two user studies to evaluate usability of the system,focusing on: dialog flow, ease of use, system responses, and uservocabulary.
The first user study focused on the functionality ofNLA and the second user study compared the functionality ofNLA with that of a directed dialog system and a menu drivennavigation system.The moderators interviewed 52 users in the user studies: 18 and34 in the two studies, respectively.
All participants wereconsumers or small business users with "beginner" or"intermediate" computer skills.
Each participant was asked to findlaptops for a variety of scenarios using three different systems (theNLA, a directed dialog system and a menu driven navigationsystem).
Participants were asked to rate each system for each taskon a 1 to 10 scale (10 ?
easiest) with respect to the ease ofnavigation, clarity of terminology and their confidence in thesystem responses.
The test subjects were also asked whether thesystem had found relevant products and were prompted to sharetheir impressions as to how well the system understood them andresponded to their requests.Figure 2.
The start of the dialog.3.2.2 ResultsIn both studies, participants were very receptive to using naturallanguage dialog-based search.
The users clearly preferred dialog-based searches to non-dialog based searches3 (79% to 21% users).Furthermore, they liked the narrowing down of a product listbased on identified constraints as the interaction proceeded.
In thefirst user study, comparing NLA with a menu driven system, wefound that using NLA reduced the average number of clicks by63% and the average interaction time by 33%.In the second user study, we compared NLA with a directeddialog system and a menu driven search system for findingcomputers.
One goal of the comparative study was to find out ifthere were any statistical differences in confidence, terminologyand navigation ratings across the three systems and whether theywere correlated with different categories of users.
The ANOVAanalysis reveals statistical differences in terminology ratingsamong the three systems for the category of beginner users only.There were no statistical differences found in the other ratings ofnavigation and confidence across the three sites for differentcategories of users.
Sandler's A test confirmed that theterminology rating was significantly different for the categories ofconsumers, small business owners, beginners and intermediates.These comparative results suggest that asking questions relative tothe right level of end user experience is crucial.
Asking usersquestions about their lifestyle and how they were going to use acomputer accounted for a slight preference of the directed dialogsystem over the NLA that uses questions presented on the basis ofunderstanding features and functions of computer terms.3.2.3 Lessons from the user studiesBoth user studies revealed several dimensions along which NLAcan be improved.
The first user study highlighted a definite needfor system acknowledgement and feedback.
The users wanted toknow whether the system had understood them.
User commentsalso revealed that a comparison of features across the whole poolof products was important for them.The focus of the second study, incorporating 34 subjects, was tocompare systems of similar functionality and to draw conclusionsabout the functionality of NLA.
Both the ANOVA and theSandler's test point out that terminology was a statisticallysignificant factor differentiating among the systems.
We believethat using terminology that is not overly technical wouldcontribute to the success of the dialog search.
While the questionsasked by NLA were based on features and functionality ofnotebook computers, the users preferred describing usage patternsand life style issues rather than technical details of computers.We also found that users' confidence in NLA decreased when thesystem responses were inconsistent i.e., were not relevant to theirinput.
Lack of consistent visual focus on the dialog box was also aserious drawback since it forced users to scroll in search of thedialog box on each interaction page.3 We define a dialog-based search as one comprising of asequence of interactions with a system where the system keepstrack of contextual (discourse) information.3.2.4 Future workBased on the results of the user studies, we are currently focusedon: developing a dynamic and adaptive dialog managementstrategy, improving the robustness of the natural languageprocessing (NLP), and improving the user interface.
Some ofissues mentioned here have been implemented in the next versionof NLA.We are currently re-designing the questions that NLA asks usersto be simpler, and to focus on usage patterns rather than technicalfeatures.
We are also implementing a new dialog managementstrategy in NLA that is more adaptive to the user's input, andimplements a mapping from high-level usage patterns toconstraints on low-level technical features.We are integrating a statistical parser with NLA to more robustlyhandle varied user input.
The statistical parser should enable NLAto scale to multiple languages and multiple domains in a morerobust and reliable fashion.
We are aiming at an architecture thatseparates the NLP processing from the business logic that willmake maintenance of the system easier.4Improvements to the GUI include better acknowledgement andfeedback mechanisms as well as graphical UI issues.
We nowreiterate the user's last query at the beginning of each interactionpage and also convey to the user an explanation of featuresincrementally accumulated in the course of the interaction.
Wehave designed a more uniform, more compact and consistent UI.In the welcome page, we have abandoned a three-step initiation(typed input, experience level and preferences for majorspecifications) keeping the emphasis on the dialog box.
The userpreferences contributed to creating confusion as to the mainmeans of interaction (many users just clicked on the radial buttonsand did not use the full dialog functionality).
We now infer thetechnical specifications based the user's stated needs and usagepatterns.
Our UI now has a no scrolling policy and we allow forlarger matching set of products to be visualized over a number ofpages.4.
DISCUSSIONIn this paper, we have presented a conversational dialog systemfor helping users shop for notebook computers.
User studiescomparing our conversational dialog system with a menu drivensystem have found that the conversational interface reduced theaverage number of clicks by 63% and the average interaction timeby 33%.
Based on our findings, it appears that for conversationalsystems like ours, the sophistication of dialog management andthe actual human computer interface are more important than thecomplexity of the natural language processing technique used.This is especially true for web-based systems where user queriesare often brief and shallow linguistic processing seems to beadequate.
For web-based systems, integrating the conversationalinterface with other interfaces (like menu-driven and search-driven interfaces) for providing a complete and consistent userexperience assumes greater importance.4 Many systems' fate has been decided not because they cannothandle complex linguistic constructions but because of thedifficulties in porting such systems out of the researchenvironments.The user studies we conducted have highlighted several directionsfor further improvements for our system.
We plan to modify ourinterface to integrate different styles of interaction (e.g., menus,search, browsing, etc.).
We also intend to dynamically classifyeach user as belonging to one or more categories of computershoppers (e.g., gamers, student users, home business users, etc.
)based on all the user interactions so far.
We can then tailor thewhole interface to the perceived category including but notlimited to the actual questions asked, the technical knowledgeassumed by the system and the whole style of interaction.Another area of potential improvement for the NLA is its inabilityto handle any meta-level queries about itself or any deeperquestions about its domain (e.g., NLA currently can not properlyhandle the queries, "How can I add memory to this model?"
or"What is DVD?").
Our long-term goal is to integrate differentsources of back-end information (databases, text documents, etc.
)and present users with an integrated, consistent conversationalinterface to it.We believe that conversational interfaces offer the ultimate kindof personalization.
Personalization can be defined as the processof presenting each user of an automated system with an interfaceuniquely tailored to his/her preference of content and style ofinteraction.
Thus, mixed initiative conversational interfaces arehighly personalized since they allow users to interact with systemsusing the words they want, to fetch the content they want in thestyle they want.
Users can converse with such systems by phrasingtheir initial queries at a right level of comfort to them (e.g., "I amlooking for a gift for my wife" or "I am looking for a fastcomputer with DVD under 1500 dollars").5.
CONCLUSIONSBased on our results, we conclude that conversational naturallanguage dialog interfaces offer powerful personalized alternativesto traditional menu-driven or search-based interfaces to websites.For such systems, it is especially important to present users with aconsistent interface integrating different styles of interaction andto have robust dialog management strategies.
The system feedbackand the follow up questions should strike a delicate balancebetween exposing the system limitations to users, and makingusers aware of the flexibility of the system.
In current work we arefocusing on developing dynamic, adaptive dialog management,robust multi-lingual NLP and improving the user interface.6.
REFERENCES[1] Androutsopoulos, Ion, and Ritchie, Graeme.
NaturalLanguage Interfaces to Databases ?
An Introduction, NaturalLanguage Engineering 1.1:29-81, 1995.
[2] Budzikowska, M., Chai, J., Govindappa, S., Horvath, V.,Kambhatla, N., Nicolov, N., and Zadrozny, W.Conversational Sales Assistant for Online Shopping,Demonstration at Human Language TechnologiesConference (HLT'2001), San Diego, Calif., 2001.
[3] Carpenter, Bob, and Chu-Carroll, J.
Natural Language CallRouting: A Robust, Self-organizing Approach, Proceedingsof the 5th Int.
Conf.
on Spoken Language Processing.
1998[4] Chai, J., Lin, J., Zadrozny, W., Ye, Y., Budzikowska, M.,Horvath, V., Kambhatla, N., and Wolf, C. ComparativeEvaluation of a Natural Language Dialog Based System anda Menu-Driven System for Information Access: A CaseStudy, Proceedings of RIAO 2000, Paris.
[5] Saito, M., and Ohmura, K. A Cognitive Model for Searchingfor Ill-defined Targets on the Web - The Relationshipbetween Search Strategies and User Satisfaction, 21st Int.Conference on Research and Development in InformationRetrieval, Australia, 1998.
[6] Walker, M., Fromer, J., and Narayanan, S. Learning OptimalDialogue Strategies: A Case Study of a Spoken DialogueAgent for Email, 36th Annual Meeting of the ACL, Montreal,Canada, 1998.
[7] Zadrozny, W., Wolf, C., Kambhatla, N. & Ye, Y.Conversation Machines for Transaction Processing,Proceedings of AAAI / IAAI - 1998, Madison, Wisconsin,U.S.A.
1998.
