Amount of Information Presented in a Complex List:Effects on User PerformanceDawn DuttonAT&T Labs - Research180 Park AvenueD103, Bldg.
103Florham Park, NJ 07932+1.973.236.6522dldutton@att.comSelina ChuInformation and Computer Science444 Computer Sci.
Bldg.UC IrvineIrvine, CA 92697+1.949.509.9762selina@ics.uci.eduJames Hubbell12 Lawrence AvenueWest Long Branch, NJ 07932+1.732.728.9351jameshubbell@hotmail.comMarilyn WalkerAT&T Labs - Research180 Park AvenueE103, Bldg.
103Florham Park, NJ 07932+1.973.360.8956walker@research.att.comShrikanth NarayananSpeech and Image Proc.
InstituteDepartment of EE-SystemsEEB 430, USCLos Angeles, CA 90089+1.213.740.6432shri@sipi.usc.eduABSTRACTAT&T Communicator is a state-of-the-art speech-enabledtelephony-based application that allows the end-user to, amongother things, select and reserve airline itineraries.
Thisexperiment explores how the amount and structure of informationpresented in complex lists influences the user experience and theability of subjects to successfully complete a selection task.Presenting all the relevant information needed for a decision atonce was the factor that most positively influenced successful taskcompletion and the user experience.
Subjects preferred hearingall of the relevant information about each flight, without initiatingadditional dialog with the system.
Additionally, successful taskcompletion rates improved when all of the flights were presentedat once, without any intervening questions from the system.Keywordsdialogue, user interface, human factors, spoken language, lists,selection1.
INTRODUCTIONAT&T Communicator is a state-of-the-art spoken dialogue systemthat allows the end-user to select and reserve various travel relatedresources, in particular, airfare, hotel, and rental cars [2].
One ofits most challenging dialog modules is that for presentinginformation that allows the user to select a desired air travelitinerary.
While selecting between multiple possible itineraries ina visual domain is a relatively simple task because most of theselection criteria are listed in a single scrollable page, the sametask is likely to have a much higher cognitive load in an audio-only domain [1, 3].
The selection criteria for each candidate flightmust be presented to the user serially, leading to higher cognitivedemands that could result in errors in itinerary selection.A sample AT&T Communicator dialog with the prototypeused in this experiment, showing the outbound flight only,follows.System: Hello, this is AT&T Communicator.How may I help with your travel plans?User:   Yeah, I?d like to fly from Newark to San Francisco.System: OK, a flight from Newark, New Jersey to SanFrancisco, California.
And will this be a roundtrip?User:   Yes, and I need to arrive in San Francisco by 4 PMon November 22nd.System: I found five outbound United Airlines flights.Option 1 is flight number 635.
It has one stop; itdeparts at 10:15 A.M. and arrives at 2:42 P.M.<pause>Option 2 is flight number 7535.
It has one stop; Itdeparts at 12:20 P.M., and arrives at 4:37 P.M.<pause>Option 3 is flight number 837.
It' s a non-stopflight; it departs at 2:00 P.M.  and arrives at 5:01P.M.
<pause>Would you like to hold any of these flights?User:   I guess I?ll take option one.System: Got it.Note that the second to the last system utterance, in which aset of itineraries are presented to the user for selection, is by farthe longest system utterance in the dialog.
This utteranceincludes a complex list of information.
Unlike a more simple list,each list item (option) contains a number of sub-items, forexample flight number, number of stops, etc.
In early dialogevaluations of the Communicator system, the selection of a singleitinerary from such a complex list of flights was a source ofsubstantial usability problems; users frequently became frustrated.In fact, many users dropped out of the dialog before successfullyselecting an itinerary.This paper describes an experiment in which we vary theamount and structure of information presented about availableitineraries.
We predict that the amount and structure ofinformation presented affects the ability of users to successfullyselect the optimal itinerary within a set, and influences subjectivemeasures such as user satisfaction.2.
METHODS AND PROCEDURES2.1 SubjectsSixty-four subjects were run at a local shopping mall over a fiveday period.
Subjects were recruited from the shoppersfrequenting the mall.2.2 Wizard of OzA Wizard of Oz (WOZ) experiment was run to determine theoptimal way for the end-user to select a desired itinerary in theCommunicator project.A Wizard of Oz experiment is one in which no real automaticspeech recognition (ASR) or natural language understanding(NLU) is used.
Instead, the user interface is prototyped and a?wizard,?
or experimenter, acts in place of the ASR and NLU.Consequently, subjects believe that ASR/NLU is being used.
TheWOZ methodology allows competing user interface strategies tobe prototyped and tested with end users in a shorter period of timethan would be required to implement multiple fully-functioningsystems with competing user interfaces.2.3 Apparatus & MaterialsRelevant aspects of the AT&T Communicator user interface wereprototyped using the Unisys Natural Language Speech Assistant(NLSA) software.
NLSA runs on a PC using the Windows NToperating system.
Subjects called into the Communicatorprototype using an analog telephone and interacted with thesystem by voice.
The wizard categorized the subject?s speechusing the NLSA Wizard graphical user interface (GUI).
Eachsubject completed 5 surveys in pen and paper format.
During thecourse of the experiment, subjects also had access to a pad ofpaper.2.4 Experimental DesignAll itineraries presented to the subjects were round-trip.2.4.1 Independent VariablesThis was a factorial experiment with two factors, one factorbetween subjects and the other within subject (see Table 1).Selection Itinerary Content.There were two levels of thisbetween subjects factor:--Terse.
The presented itineraries included:  airline, numberof stops, and departure time1.
In order to get additionalinformation, the user could ask the system questions (e.g.
?When does that flight arrive??).--Verbose.
The presented itineraries included:  airline, flightnumber, number of stops, departure time, and arrival time.All the information relevant to the tasks specified in theexperiment are presented about each flight; the user did notneed to ask questions to get additional information.Number of Flights Before Question.Each level is actually acombination of two separate, but related, factors.--Combined vs.
Separate.
Whether outbound and returnflights are presented separately or in combination.--Number of flights.
The number of flights that are presentedbefore asking the subject to make a decision.Four levels of this factor were chosen.
In all cases (1) thetotal number of flights ?found?
was 5, and, (2) the question was,?Would you like to hold [that flight/any of  those flights]?
?.--Separate 1.
The outbound and return flights of the trip arepresented separately and after each flight the subject is askedthe question.--Separate 3.
The outbound and return flights of the trip arepresented separately and after the third flight the subject isasked the question.--Separate 5.
The outbound and return flights of the trip arepresented separately and after the last flight the subject isasked the question.--Combined.
The outbound and return flights of the trip arepresented at the same time and after each set of two flightsthe subject is asked the question.Table 1:  Factors used in this experiment.Example.The following example could have been used inthe Separate 3 condition.
Text that is unformatted is common toboth the terse and verbose conditions.
Text in italics is foundonly in the verbose condition.
?I found 5 outbound Delta flights.
Option 1 isflight number323.
It?s a non-stop leaving at 9:10 and arriving at 2:01.Option 2is flight number 798.
It has one stop; it departs at11:13 and arrives at 5:07.
Option 3 is flight number 295.
It1All times in this experiment were presented to the minute, with eitherAM or PM, e.g.
?
?departs at 6:01 AM.
?Selection Itinerary Content (Between)Terse VerboseOutbound/ Return#  ofFlightsBeforeQuestionOutbound/ Return# of FlightsBeforeQuestion(Within) (Within)Separate 1 Separate 1Separate 3 Separate 3Separate 5 Separate 5Combined 2 Combined 2has two stops; it departs at 1:52 and arrives at 6:57.
Wouldyou like to hold any of those flights?
?2.4.2 Mixed Initiative and Flow of ControlThe dialog strategy was mixed initiative.
The first prompt wasopen-ended, e.g.
?How may I help you with your travel plans?
?All subsequent prompts requested specific information from theuser (e.g.
?What date did you want to depart??)
The prototypeswere built to allow the user to provide multiple informationalelements (e.g.
departure city and departure date) to either open-ended or specific requests.
Subsequent steps in the flow ofcontrol could be skipped if multiple pieces of information werepresented at a single dialog point.2.4.3 TasksEach subject was asked to complete four tasks in the course ofthis experiment.
In each task the subject was given a set ofcriteria that the subject had to meet in selecting both an outboundand a return flight.
The tasks used in this experiment exerciseselection criteria that are representative of selection criteriatypically used by individuals actually purchasing airline tickets.The four tasks given to subjects follow:Departure Only.
The task criteria for both the outbound andreturn flights require the subject to choose flights based ondeparture time only.Arrival Only.
The task criteria for both the outbound and returnflights require the subject to choose flights based on arrival timeonly.Departure & Arrival.
The task criteria require the subject tochoose the outbound flight based on departure time and the returnflight based on arrival time.Specific Flight.
The task requires the subject to book a particularflight for both the outbound and return flights.Example.
The following example was used for the Departure& Arrival task (it has been edited for presentation here).You want a round trip ticket from Boston to Charleston.You want to leave Boston about 5 in the evening ofFriday November 10th.
You want to arrive in Boston nolater than 8 PM on Tuesday November 14th.An important selection criterion for many purchasers ofairline tickets is price.
The price of the ticket was not a selectioncriterion used in this experiment because it would introducepossible confounds.
Many users are willing to trade-off otherimportant selection criteria, e.g.
arrival time and departure time,in order to minimize price.
Therefore, it was decided, a priori, topostpone the use of price as a selection criterion to a laterexperiment.2.4.4 CounterbalancingA Balanced Greco-Latin Square was used to counterbalance theorders of the conditions and tasks.2.4.5 Dependent MeasuresA rich set of dependent measures were gathered in thisexperiment:-- After each system prompt was played, NLSA recorded whatsubjects said.-- At the end of each task, the wizard determined whether thattask was successfully completed.-- At the end of each task, subjects completed paper and pensurveys rating the overall dialog for that task.-- After experiencing all four tasks, subjects told theexperimenter which of the flight selection criteria wereimportant to them.Objective measure.
Successful task completion was the oneobjective measure used in determining the optimal method forpresenting complex lists in an audio-only domain.
For each taskthe subject was given a set of required criteria for selecting boththe outbound and a return flight.
Task completion was binary,successful or unsuccessful, and was determined by theexperimenter (wizard) at the time the subject completed each task.In order for a subject to successfully complete a task, the subjecthad to select both the outbound and return flight that best fit theclear criteria given to subjects in the task description.Subjective measures.
Other data gathered in this experimentincluded a number of subjective measures.
After each task,subjects were asked:Overall, how satisfied were you with AT&T Communicator whilebooking this flight?
[1] Very Satisfied[2] Somewhat Satisfied[3] Neither Satisfied, Nor Dissatisfied[4] Somewhat Dissatisfied[5] Very DissatisfiedOverall, how easy was it to use AT&T Communicator whilebooking this flight?
[1] Very Easy[2] Somewhat Easy[3] Neither Easy, Nor Difficult[4] Somewhat Difficult[5] Very DifficultOverall, how quickly did AT&T Communicator respond to yourspeech?
[1] Much Too Fast[2] A Little Too Fast[3] Just the Right Speed[4] A Little Too Slow[5] Much Too SlowAfter you told Communicator the date and time to book yourflight, Communicator responded with possible flights to choosefrom.
For EACH of the possible flights, did Communicatorpresent the right amount of information?
[1] Too Much Information about Each Flight[2] Just the Right Amount of Information About EachFlight[3] Too Little Information about Each FlightAfter completing all four tasks, subjects were asked to (1)rank order the criteria they personally use when selecting betweenmultiple itineraries, and (2) specify the information thatCommunicator should present about every flight for selectionpurposes in the future.3.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS3.1 Terse or Verbose?A two-way, 2x4, Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) was run foreach of 5 dependent measures:  successful task completion,amount of information presented about each flight, satisfaction,ease of use, and speed of interaction.
For each dependentmeasure, no significant interactions were found2.
A significantmain effect for Terse/Verbose was found for the subjectivemeasure of the amount of information presented about each flight(p=.001), see Fig.
1.Amount of Information1.801.902.002.102.202.302.401-Sep 3-Sep 5-Sep Comb# of Flightsverbose (N=30)terse (N=29)Figure 1:  Verbose and Terse subject ratings to the Amount ofInformation question (2=Just the Right Amount ofInformation about each flight).No other significant main effects were found for any of thedependent measures.
The optimum value for the dependentmeasure amount of information is ?2?
(Just the right amount ofinformation about each flight).
The average value for the Verbosecondition (across the 4 levels of # of Flights) was 2.06, while theequivalent average for the Terse condition was 2.24.Rank Order ofPersonal Selection Criteria0 100 200 300 400 500PriceStops - NumberTime - ArrivalTime - DepartureAirlineStops - LengthFlight NumberWeighted ScoreVerboseTerseFigure 2:  Summed Weighted Scores of subjects?
rankordering of their personal selection criteria.Related to these results is a question that was asked of allsubjects at the end of the experiment.
Figure 2 shows theweighted scores based on the  rank ordering of the selection2Throughout the experiment, the alpha level used to determinesignificance of an effect was p<.05.criteria subjects personally use when selecting among multipleflights.
A rank order of 1 was given a score 7 points, a rankorder of 7 was given a score of 1 point, etc.
The Weighted Scorefor each selection criteria shown in Figure 2 is the sum of theWeighted Scores for all  subjects.Similarly, a second question was asked of all subjects atthe end of the experiment:  ?In the future, what informationshould AT&T Communicator present about each flightwhen you are choosing between multiple flights??
Figure 3shows the compiled responses to this question.What Information Should AT&TCommunicator Present?0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70PriceTime - ArrivalTime - DepartureStops - NumberAirlineStops - LengthFlight NumberNumber of Subjects SelectingVerboseTerseFigure 3:  Number of subjects indicating that each selectioncriterion should, by default, be presented by AT&TCommunicator.Information that should definitely be presented to subjectswhen selecting between multiple flights includes:  price, arrivaltime, departure time, number of stops and airline.
The value tousers of the length of stops is ambiguous.
It probably should notbe presented by default, although it might be useful to present thelength of stops if they will be inordinately long, e.g.
greater than2 hours, or inordinately short, e.g.
less than 45 minutes.
Flightnumber was judged to be least valuable and should not bepresented.3.2 Number of Flights?The above analyses indicate that the amount of informationpresented in the Verbose condition better met the expectations ofsubjects.
The next question then was, within the verbosecondition, which level of the number of flights before the questionfactor showed the best performance.
A one-way, 1x4, ANOVAwas run for the verbose condition for each of five dependentmeasures:  successful task completion, amount of informationabout each flight, satisfaction, ease of use, and speed ofinteraction3.
A significant main effect was found for successful3As noted at the beginning of the Results section, subject responses to thesatisfaction, ease of use, and speed of the interaction questions may beattributable to the subject?s reactions to the novel user-systemtask completion (p=.005).
Figure 4 shows the percentage ofsuccessful task completions in the Verbose condition only.
Nosignificant effects were found for the other four dependentmeasures.Successful Task Completion- Verbose Condition Only0.000.200.400.600.801.001-Sep 3-Sep 5-Sep Comb# of FlightsFigure 4:  Successful task completion (in percent) across thefour levels of the # of Flights Before Question condition(Verbose only).The significant main effect was probed using the Tukey test4.Separate 5 was the condition with the highest successful taskcompletion rate.
Only one pairwise comparison was significant(p<.05).
Tasks attempted in the Separate 5 condition weresignificantly more likely to be completed successfully than tasksattempted in the Separate 3 condition.Table 2:  Results of Tukey test for successful task completionacross the four levels of # of Flights Before Question condition(Verbose only).Sep.
3=.567Sep.
1=.600Comb.=.833Sep.
5=.900Sep.
3=.567p>=.05 p>=.05 p<.05*Sep. 1=.600p>=.05 p>=.05Comb.=.833p>=.05Sep.
5=.900Among the three Separate conditions (Separate 1, Separate 3,and Separate 5), subjects were much more likely to successfullycomplete a task in Separate 5.
That is, when all the flights for agiven flight (outbound or return) were presented at once, withoutany intervening questions.
Also, based on subject comments, itappeared that at least some subjects in the Separate 3 conditionwere confused about the number of flights they had available toselect between.
These subjects didn?t realize that there were moreflights available after the system presented them with the firstinteraction style, rather than to the experimentally varied presentation ofthe flight selection criteria.4The Tukey is a test of significance for pairwise comparisons of treatmentmeans that controls for familywise error.three in a total set of five flights.
This is in spite of the fact that inall tasks, including the Separate 3 condition, the subjects heard asentence like ?I found five outbound Northwest Airlines flights,?before the options were presented for selection.It not possible, on the basis of the experimental data gatheredin this study, to unambiguously choose one of the # of flightsbefore question conditions over the others.
It may be that a moredifficult set of tasks would elicit stronger differences in both theobjective and subjective measures for the levels of this factor.However, in absolute terms, the task completion rates withSeparate 5 and Combined were both high (90% and 83%,respectively), relative to the Separate 1 and Separate 3 conditions(60% and 57%, respectively).Anecdotal evidence sheds some additional light on the issueof which condition (Separate 5 or Combined) is preferred bysubjects.
In the Verbose condition, the last 17 subjects run in theexperiment were asked a few questions that provide evidenceconcerning their subjective impressions of the four levels of thenumber of flights before question factor.
The first question was?Did you notice any difference between the different versions ofthe system??
Twelve of seventeen subjects stated that they hadnoticed a difference between the four versions.
Those 12 subjectswere then asked to choose the version they liked the best, andthen the version they considered to be the worst.Best?3-Did not specify a ?best?
version2-Combined only2-Separate 1 only1-Separate 3 only1-Separate 5 only2-Any of the Separate versions1-Either Separate 3 or Separate 5Worst?7-Did not specify a ?worst?
version5-Combined only0-Separate 1 only0-Separate 3 only0-Separate 5 onlyIn response to the question of which version of the systemwas best, the subjects stated no consistent preference for any ofthe versions of the system.
On the other hand, the responses tothe question concerning which version of the system was ?worst?resulted in a more consistent set of responses; the Combinedversion was selected by 5 of 12 of the subjects as the version theyconsidered to be the ?worst.?
From subject comments, it appearedthat subjects didn?t like it when they heard one flight that matchedtheir constraints (e.g.
outbound), while the other flight did notmatch their constraints (e.g.
return).
Some subjects found this tobe frustrating, confusing, and/or tedious.4.
DISCUSSIONPresenting all the relevant information about a given flight at onceseemed to be the single overarching factor that most positivelyinfluenced successful task completion and the user experience.Subjects wanted to hear all of the relevant information about aflight needed to make the best choice.Within the Separate conditions (Separate 1, Separate 3 andSeparate 5), the task completion rate was highest for the Separate5 condition.
That is, when all of the flights were presented atonce, without any intervening system questions.
The Separate 5and Combined conditions had similar task completion rates andwere not significantly different.
However, the Combinedcondition was the only condition considered ?worst?
by subjects.Thus, the condition that maximized both successful taskcompletion and user experience was the Verbose Separate 5condition.A major concern in the design of this experiment was that theaudio presentation of lists of complex information, in this caselists of multiple airline flights each containing multiple pieces ofinformation, would result in cognitive overload.
These findingsargue that, for this task, our concern about the increased cognitiveload in an audio-only domain was unfounded.
There are a coupleof possible reasons that cognitive load did not appear to have theinfluence that we anticipated.
First, users knew their constraintswhen listening to the flights.
Some users may have used astrategy of only remembering the options that potentially matchedtheir constraints.
Second, many subjects apparently dealt with theincreased cognitive load by taking notes, with flight times, etc.,while completing the experimental tasks.
Such behaviour iscertainly common when making airline reservations with a humantravel agent over the telephone.
Further, it is anticipated thatusers would generally book flights in a hands-free environment,and would be able to take notes, when it is desirable.
Althoughless ecologically valid, future experiments primarily concernedwith the issue of cognitive load should explicitly precludesubjects from taking notes.From the above data, it appears that the standard userinterface practices for Prompt & Collect (in which the system?prompts?
the user for a specific piece of information and then?collects?
their response) should be different than the standardpractice for Selecting from a List.
For Prompt & Collect, thestandard UI practice is for the system to be as terse as possiblewhen prompting the user.
The user generally knows theinformation the system is asking for, they just need to beprompted so that they know what piece of information the systemis currently ready to accept.
When Selecting from a List,however, the level of knowledge of the system and user are verydifferent.
The system knows the possible items that can beselected.
The user begins the interaction only knowing their ownconstraints (and their relative priority).
The system must presentall the relevant information so that the user can select the optimalitem from the list based on their constraints and priorities.Consequently, when the user must select an item from a list, thesystem should be as verbose as necessary and present all theinformation relevant to their decision at once.For the task of selecting between multiple airline flights, thefollowing information should definitely be presented to usersabout each flight: price, arrival time, departure time, number ofstops and airline.
While there was agreement between subjects onthe important selection criteria for flights, there are also someindividual differences.
For example, some users like to fly only aparticular airline or have strong preferences concerning thelocations of layovers.
This experiment indicates that users like tohear all of the information relevant to their decision at once.Therefore, if a user asks a question concerning information that isnot by default presented by the system about each flight, theinformation presented to that user for each subsequent flight onthat call, should include the information they have requested.
Forexample, if after the first flight the user asks ?Where does thatflight stop?
?, the information for all subsequent flights in that callshould include the location of any stops.It thus appears likely that subjects in this experiment wereusing AT&T Communicator as a tool, rather than as aconversational or negotiating partner.
That is, their goal was touse Communicator to quickly and efficiently select the singleflight that best matched the criteria given to them in each task.Asking the system questions in order to get information relevantto this selection process, would decrease the speed and efficiencywith which they were able to accomplish this task.
So, subjectspreferred the most verbose presentation of information in order toincrease the speed and efficiency of the overall task.Nevertheless, eighty percent of the subjects stated that themost important criterion when personally selecting a flight wasprice.
A number of subjects commented that they were willing totrade off other important criterion, e.g.
airline, number of stops, inorder to get a better price.
In a more complex selection task,where the user is choosing a set of flights based on multiple,competing selection criteria, the user may wish to use AT&TCommunicator as a negotiating partner in order to get the bestflight available.
Such a negotiation might lend itself well toexploring machine-user dialog in a natural language telephony-based system.5.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe would like to thank the AT&T Communicator team for theirassistance on this project.6.
REFERENCES[1] Blanchard, H.E.
& Lewis, S.H.
(1999), The Voicemessaging user interface, in D. Gardner-Bonneau (ed.
),Human factors and voice interactive systems, KluwerAcademic Publishers, pp.257-284.
[2] Levin, E., Narayanan, S., Pieraccini, R., Biatov, K.,Bocchieri, E., Di Fabbrizio, G., Eckert, W., Lee, S.,Pokrovsky, A., Rahim, M., Ruscitti, P., and Walker, M.(2000), The AT&T-DARPA Communicator mixed-initiative spoken dialog system, Proc.
of theInternational Conference of Spoken LangurageProcessing, (Beijing, China), pp.
122-125.
[3] Schneiderman, B.
(1992).
Designing the user interface(2nd ed.).
Reading MA:  Addison Wesley.
