Proceedings of HLT/EMNLP 2005 Demonstration Abstracts, pages 14?15,Vancouver, October 2005.Prague Dependency Treebank as an exercise book of CzechBarbora Hladka?
and Ondr?ej Kuc?eraInstitute of Formal and Applied LinguisticsCharles UniversityMalostransk?e n?am.
25118 00 Prague, Czech Republichladka@ufal.mff.cuni.cz, ondrej.kucera@centrum.czAbstractThere was simply linguistics at the begin-ning.
During the years, linguistics hasbeen accompanied by various attributes.For example corpus one.
While a namecorpus is relatively young in linguistics,its content related to a language - collec-tion of texts and speeches - is nothing newat all.
Speaking about corpus linguisticsnowadays, we keep in mind collecting oflanguage resources in an electronic form.There is one more attribute that comput-ers together with mathematics bring intolinguistics - computational.
The progressfrom working with corpus towards thecomputational approach is determined bythe fact that electronic data with the ?un-limited?
computer potential give opportu-nities to solve natural language processingissues in a fast way (with regard to the pos-sibilities of human being) on a statisticallysignificant amount of data.Listing the attributes, we have to stop fora while by the notion of annotated cor-pora.
Let us build a big corpus includingall Czech text data available in an elec-tronic form and look at it as a sequence ofcharacters with the space having dominat-ing status ?
a separator of words.
It is veryeasy to compare two words (as strings), tocalculate how many times these two wordsappear next to each other in a corpus, howmany times they appear separately and soon.
Even more, it is possible to do itfor every language (more or less).
Thiskind of calculations is language indepen-dent ?
it is not restricted by the knowl-edge of language, its morphology, its syn-tax.
However, if we want to solve morecomplex language tasks such as machinetranslation we cannot do it without deepknowledge of language.
Thus, we haveto transform language knowledge into anelectronic form as well, i.e.
we have toformalize it and then assign it to words(e.g., in case of morphology), or to sen-tences (e.g., in case of syntax).
A cor-pus with additional information is calledan annotated corpus.We are lucky.
There is a real annotatedcorpus of Czech ?
Prague DependencyTreebank (PDT).
PDT belongs to the topof the world corpus linguistics and its sec-ond edition is ready to be officially pub-lished (for the first release see (Hajic?
et al,2001)).
PDT was born in Prague and hadarisen from the tradition of the successfulPrague School of Linguistics.
The depen-dency approach to a syntactical analysiswith the main role of verb has been ap-plied.
The annotations go from the mor-phological level to the tectogrammaticallevel (level of underlying syntactic struc-ture) through the intermediate syntactical-analytical level.
The data (2 mil.
words)have been annotated in the same direction,i.e., from a more simple level to a more14complex one.
This fact corresponds tothe amount of data annotated on a partic-ular level.
The largest number of wordshave been annotated morphologically (2mil.
words) and the lowest number ofwords tectogramatically (0.8 mil.
words).In other words, 0.8 million words havebeen annotated on all three levels, 1.5 mil.words on both morphological and syntac-tical level and 2 mil.
words on the lowestmorphological level.Besides the verification of ?pre-PDT?
the-ories and formulation of new ones, PDTserves as training data for machine learn-ing methods.
Here, we present a systemStyx that is designed to be an exercisebook of Czech morphology and syntaxwith exercises directly selected from PDT.The schoolchildren can use a computer towrite, to draw, to play games, to page en-cyclopedia, to compose music - why theycould not use it to parse a sentence, to de-termine gender, number, case, .
.
.
?
Whilethe Styx development, two main phaseshave been passed:1. transformation of an academic ver-sion of PDT into a school one.
20thousand sentences were automati-cally selected out of 80 thousandsentences morphologically and syn-tactically annotated.
The complex-ity of selected sentences exactly cor-responds to the complexity of sen-tences exercised in the current text-books of Czech.
A syntactically an-notated sentence in PDT is repre-sented as a tree with the same num-ber of nodes as is the number of thewords in the given sentence.
It dif-fers from the schemes used at schools(Grepl and Karl?
?k, 1998).
On theother side, the linear structure of PDTmorphological annotations was takenas it is ?
only morphological cate-gories relevant to school syllabuseswere preserved.2.
proposal and implementation of ex-ercises.
The general computer facil-ities of basic and secondary schoolswere taken into account while choos-ing a potential programming lan-guage to use.
The Styx is imple-mented in Java that meets our mainrequirements ?
platform-independentsystem and system stability.At least to our knowledge, there is nosuch system for any language corpus thatmakes the schoolchildren familiar with anacademic product.
At the same time, oursystem represents a challenge and an op-portunity for the academicians to popular-ize a field devoted to the natural languageprocessing with promising future.A number of electronic exercises of Czechmorphology and syntax were created.However, they were built manually, i.e.authors selected sentences either fromtheir minds or randomly from books,newspapers.
Then they analyzed themmanually.
In a given manner, there is nochance to build an exercise system thatreflects a real usage of language in suchamount the Styx system fully offers.ReferencesJan Hajic?, Eva Hajic?ova?, Barbora Hladka?, Petr Pajas,Jarmila Panevova?, and Petr Sgall.
2001.
PragueDependency Treebank 1.0 (Final Production Label)CD-ROM, CAT: LDC2001T10, ISBN 1-58563-212-0,Linguistic Data Consortium.Miroslav Grepl and Petr Karl?
?k 1998.
Skladba c?es?iny.
[Czech Langauge.]
Votobia, Praha.15
