Proceedings of HLT/EMNLP 2005 Demonstration Abstracts, page 1,Vancouver, October 2005.Automatic Detection of Translation Errors: The State of the ArtGraham Russell and Ngoc Tran NguyenIIT?ILT, National Research Council CanadaRALI-DIRO, Universite?
de Montre?al?
{russell,nguyentt}@iro.umontreal.caGeorge FosterIIT?ILT, National Research Council Canada?george.foster@nrc-cnrc.gc.ca1 BackgroundThe demonstration presents TransCheck, a transla-tion quality-assurance tool developed jointly by theRALI group at the University of Montreal and theInteractive Language Technologies section of theCanadian National Research Council?s Institute forInformation Technology.The system differs from other similar tools inthe range of error-types targeted, and the underly-ing mechanisms employed.
The demonstration il-lustrates the operation of the system and gives therationale for its design and capabilities.
The versiondemonstrated accepts input in English and French.2 System OverviewA modular architecture promotes flexibility (easeof adaptation to new domains, client requirementsand language pairs) and extensibility (incorporationof new error-detector components as they becomeavailable).In a transparent preprocessing stage, source andtarget texts are read and aligned.
The resultingstream of alignment regions is passed to a set of in-dependent error-detection modules, each of whichrecords errors in a global table for subsequent reportgeneration.
Certain of the error-detection compo-nents make use of external data in the form of lexicaland other language resources.3 Translation ErrorsThe difficulty of general-case translation error detec-tion is discussed.
Several classes of feasible errors?C.P.
6128, succ.
Centre-ville, Montre?al QC, Canada H3C 3J7?University of Quebec en Outaouais, Lucien Brault Pavilion,101 St-Jean-Bosco Street, Gatineau QC, Canada K1A 0R6are identified, and the technological capabilities re-quired for their successful detection described.Detection of incorrect terminology usage, for ex-ample, requires the ability to recognize correspon-dences between source and target language expres-sions, and to generalize over different realizations ofa given term; inflection, coordination and anaphoracombine to render inadequate solutions based solelyon simple static lists of term pairs.
?Negative termi-nology?, covering false friends, deceptive cognates,Anglicisms, etc., is rather more challenging, andcan benefit from a more precise notion of transla-tional correspondence.
Proper names pose a range ofproblems, including referential disambiguation andvarying conventions regarding transliteration, whilea broad class of paralinguistic phenomena (num-bers, dates, product codes, etc.)
raise yet others inthe area of monolingual analysis and translationalequivalence.
Omissions and insertions constitute afinal error class; these present particular difficultiesof recognition and interpretation, and are best ad-dressed heuristically.The current TransCheck system targets the errortypes mentioned above.
Each is exemplified anddiscussed, together with the elements of languagetechnology which permit their detection: dictionar-ies, shallow parsing, alignment, translation models,etc.Experience gained in preliminary user trials isbriefly reported and a variety of usage scenarios con-sidered.
Finally, some comparisons are made withother translation tools, including other proposals fortranslation error detection.1
