Proceedings of Human Language Technology Conference and Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing (HLT/EMNLP), pages 827?834, Vancouver, October 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsParallelism in Coordination as an Instance of Syntactic Priming:Evidence from Corpus-based ModelingAmit Dubey and Patrick Sturt and Frank KellerHuman Communication Research Centre, Universities of Edinburgh and Glasgow2 Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh EH8 9LW, UK{adubey,sturt,keller}@inf.ed.ac.ukAbstractExperimental research in psycholinguis-tics has demonstrated a parallelism effectin coordination: speakers are faster at pro-cessing the second conjunct of a coordi-nate structure if it has the same internalstructure as the first conjunct.
We showthat this phenomenon can be explained bythe prevalence of parallel structures in cor-pus data.
We demonstrate that parallelismis not limited to coordination, but also ap-plies to arbitrary syntactic configurations,and even to documents.
This indicates thatthe parallelism effect is an instance of ageneral syntactic priming mechanism inhuman language processing.1 IntroductionExperimental work in psycholinguistics has pro-vided evidence for the so-called parallelism prefer-ence effect: speakers processes coordinated struc-tures more quickly when the two conjuncts havethe same internal syntactic structure.
The processingadvantage for parallel structures has been demon-strated for a range coordinate constructions, includ-ing NP coordination (Frazier et al, 2000), sentencecoordination (Frazier et al, 1984), and gapping andellipsis (Carlson, 2002; Mauner et al, 1995).The parallelism preference in NP coordinationcan be illustrated using Frazier et al?s (2000) Exper-iment 3, which recorded subjects?
eye-movementswhile they read sentences like (1):(1) a. Terry wrote a long novel and a short poemduring her sabbatical.b.
Terry wrote a novel and a short poem dur-ing her sabbaticalTotal reading times for the underlined region werefaster in (1-a), where short poem is coordinated witha syntactically parallel noun phrase (a long novel),compared to (1-b), where it is coordinated with asyntactically non-parallel phrase.These results raise an important question that thepresent paper tries to answer through corpus-basedmodeling studies: what is the mechanism underlyingthe parallelism preference?
One hypothesis is thatthe effect is caused by low-level processes such assyntactic priming, i.e., the tendency to repeat syntac-tic structures (e.g., Bock, 1986).
Priming is a verygeneral mechanism that can affect a wide range oflinguistic units, including words, constituents, andsemantic concepts.
If the parallelism effect is an in-stance of syntactic priming, then we expect it to ap-ply to a wide range of syntactic construction, andboth within and between sentences.
Previous workhas demonstrated priming effects in corpora (Gries,2005; Szmrecsanyi, 2005); however, these resultsare limited to instances of priming that involve achoice between two structural alternatives (e.g., da-tive alternation).
In order to study the parallelism ef-fect, we need to model priming as general syntac-tic repetition (independent of the structural choicesavailable).
This is what the present paper attempts.Frazier and Clifton (2001) propose an alternativeaccount of the parallelism effect in terms of a copy-ing mechanism.
Unlike priming, this mechanism ishighly specialized and only applies to coordinatestructures: if the second conjunct is encountered,then instead of building new structure, the languageprocessor simply copies the structure of the first con-junct; this explains why a speed-up is observed ifthe second conjunct is parallel to the first one.
Ifthe copying account is correct, then we would ex-pect parallelism effects to be restricted to coordinatestructures and would not apply in other contexts.In the present paper, we present corpus evidencethat allows us to distinguish between these two com-peting explanations.
Our investigation will proceedas follows: we first establish that there is evidence827for a parallelism effect in corpus data (Section 3).This is a crucial prerequisite for our wider inves-tigation: previous work has only dealt with paral-lelism in comprehension, hence we need to establishthat parallelism is also present in production data,such as corpus data.
We then investigate whetherthe parallelism effect is restricted to coordination, orwhether it also applies also arbitrary syntactic con-figurations.
We also test if parallelism can be foundfor larger segments of text, including, in the limit,the whole document (Section 4).
Then we investi-gate parallelism in dialog, testing the psycholinguis-tic prediction that parallelism in dialog occurs be-tween speakers (Section 5).
In the next section, wediscuss a number of methodological issues and ex-plain the way we measure parallelism in corpus data.2 AdaptationPsycholinguistic studies have shown that primingaffects both speech production (Bock, 1986) andcomprehension (Branigan et al, 2005).
The impor-tance of comprehension priming has also been notedby the speech recognition community (Kuhn andde Mori, 1990), who use so-called caching languagemodels to improve the performance of speech com-prehension software.
The concept of caching lan-guage models is quite simple: a cache of recentlyseen words is maintained, and the probability ofwords in the cache is higher than those outside thecache.While the performance of caching language mod-els is judged by their success in improving speechrecognition accuracy, it is also possible to use anabstract measure to diagnose their efficacy moreclosely.
Church (2000) introduces such a diagnosticfor lexical priming: adaptation probabilities.
Adap-tation probabilities provide a method to separate thegeneral problem of priming from a particular imple-mentation (i.e., caching models).
They measure theamount of priming that occurs for a given construc-tion, and therefore provide an upper limit for the per-formance of models such as caching models.Adaptation is based upon three concepts.
First isthe prior, which serves as a baseline.
The prior mea-sures the probability of a word appearing, ignoringthe presence or absence of a prime.
Second is thepositive adaptation, which is the probability of aword appearing given that it has been primed.
Thirdis the negative adaptation, the probability of a wordappearing given it has not been primed.In Church?s case, the prior and adaptation prob-abilities are estimated as follows.
If a corpus is di-vided into individual documents, then each docu-ment is then split in half.
We refer to the halves as theprime set (or prime half) and the target set (or targethalf).1 We measure how frequently a document halfcontains a particular word.
For each word w, thereare four combinations of the prime and target halvescontaining the word.
This gives us four frequenciesto measure, which are summarized in the followingtable:fwp,t fwp?,tfwp,?t fwp?,?tThese frequencies represent:fwp,t = # of times w occurs in prime setand target setfwp?,t = # of times w occurs in target setbut not prime setfwp,?t = # of times w occurs in prime setbut not target setfwp?,?t = # of times w does not occur in eithertarget set or prime setIn addition, let N represent the sum of these fourfrequencies.
From the frequencies, we may formallydefine the prior, positive adaptation and negativeadaptation:Prior Pprior(w) =fwp,t + fw p?,tN(1)Positive Adaptation P+(w) =fwp,tfwp,t + fwp,?t(2)Negative Adaptation P?
(w) =fw p?,tfw p?,t+ fw p?,?t(3)In the case of lexical priming, Church observes thatP+  Pprior > P?.
In fact, even in cases when Ppriorquite small, P+ may be higher than 0.8.
Intuitively,a positive adaptation which is higher than the priorentails that a word is likely to reappear in the targetset given that it has already appeared in the primeset.
We intend to show that adaptation probabilitiesprovide evidence that syntactic constructions behave1Our terminology differs from that of Church, who uses ?his-tory?
to describe the first half, and ?test?
to describe the second.Our terms avoid the ambiguity of the phrase ?test set?
and coin-cide with the common usage in the psycholinguistic literature.828similarity to lexical priming, showing positive adap-tation P+ greater than the prior.
As P?
must becomesmaller than Pprior whenever P+ is larger than Pprior,we only report the positive adaptation P+ and theprior Pprior.While Church?s technique was developed withspeech recognition in mind, we will show thatit is useful for investigating psycholinguistic phe-nomenon.
However, the connection between cogni-tive phenomenon and engineering approaches go inboth directions: it is possible that syntactic parserscould be improved using a model of syntactic prim-ing, just as speech recognition has been improvedusing models of lexical priming.3 Experiment 1: Parallelism inCoordinationIn this section, we investigate the use of Church?sadaptation metrics to measure the effect of syntac-tic parallelism in coordinated constructions.
For thesake of comparison, we restrict our study to severalconstructions used in Frazier et al (2000).
All ofthese constructions occur in NPs with two coordi-nate sisters, i.e., constructions such as NP1 CC NP2,where CC represents a coordinator such as and.3.1 MethodThe application of the adaptation metric is straight-forward: we pick NP1 as the prime set and NP2 asthe target set.
Instead of measuring the frequency oflexical elements, we measure the frequency of thefollowing syntactic constructions:SBAR An NP with a relative clause, i.e.,NP ?
NP SBAR.PP An NP with a PP modifier, i.e., NP ?
NP PP.NN An NP with a single noun, i.e., NP ?
NN.DT NN An NP with a determiner and a noun, i.e.,NP ?
DT NN.DT JJ NN An NP with a determiner, an adjectiveand a noun, i.e., NP ?
DT JJ NN.Parameter estimation is accomplished by iteratingthrough the corpus for applications of the rule NP?
NP CC NP.
From each rule application, we createa list of prime-target pairs.
We then estimate adap-tation probabilities for each construction, by count-ing the number of prime-target pairs in which thePP SBAR N DT N DT ADJ N00.51ProbabilityPriorAdaptationFigure 1: Adaptation within coordinate structures inthe Brown corpusPP SBAR N DT N DT ADJ N00.51ProbabilityPriorAdaptationFigure 2: Adaptation within coordinate structures inthe WSJ corpusconstruction does or does not occur.
This is donesimilarly to the document half case described above.There are four frequencies of interest, but now theyrefer to the frequency that a particular construction(rather than a word) either occurs or does not occurin the prime and target set.To ensure results were general across genres, weused all three parts of the English Penn Treebank:the Wall Street Journal (WSJ), the balanced Browncorpus of written text (Brown) and the Switchboardcorpus of spontaneous dialog.
In each case, we usethe entire corpus.Therefore, in total, we report 30 probabilities: theprior and positive adaptation for each of the five con-structions in each of the three corpora.
The primaryobjective is to observe the difference between theprior and positive adaptation for a given constructionin a particular corpus.
Therefore, we also perform a?2 test to determine if the difference between thesetwo probabilities are statistically significant.829PP SBAR N DT N DT ADJ N00.51ProbabilityPriorAdaptationFigure 3: Adaptation within coordinate structures inthe Switchboard corpus3.2 ResultsThe results are shown in Figure 1 for the Brown cor-pus, Figure 2 for the WSJ and Figure 3 for Switch-board.
Each figure shows the prior and positiveadaptation for all five constructions: relative clauses(SBAR) a PP modifier (PP), a single common noun(N), a determiner and noun (DT N), and a determineradjective and noun (DT ADJ N).
Only in the case ofa single common noun in the WSJ and Switchboardcorpora is the prior probability higher than the posi-tive adaptation.
In all other cases, the probability ofthe given construction is more likely to occur in NP2given that it has occurred in NP1.
According to the?2 tests, all differences between priors and positiveadaptations were significant at the 0.01 level.
Thesize of the data sets means that even small differ-ences in probability are statistically significant.
Alldifferences reported in the remainder of this paperare statistically significant; we omit the details of in-dividual ?2 tests.3.3 DiscussionThe main conclusion we draw is that the parallelismeffect in corpora mirrors the ones found experimen-tally by Frazier et al (2000), if we assume higherprobabilities are correlated with easier human pro-cessing.
This conclusion is important, as the experi-ments of Frazier et al (2000) only provided evidencefor parallelism in comprehension data.
Corpus data,however, are production data, which means that theour findings are first ones to demonstrate parallelismeffects in production.The question of the relationship between compre-hension and production data is an interesting one.PP SBAR N DT N DT ADJ N00.51ProbabilityPriorAdaptationFigure 4: Adaptation within sentences in the BrowncorpusPP SBAR N DT N DT ADJ N00.51ProbabilityPriorAdaptationFigure 5: Adaptation within sentences in the WSJcorpusWe can expect that production data, such as corpusdata, are generated by speakers through a processthat involves self-monitoring.
Written texts (such asthe WSJ and Brown) involve proofreading and edit-ing, i.e., explicit comprehension processes.
Even thedata in a spontaneous speech corpus such as Swtich-board can be expected to involve a certain amountof self-monitoring (speakers listen to themselves andcorrect themselves if necessary).
It follows that it isnot entirely unexpected that similar effects can befound in both comprehension and production data.4 Experiment 2: Parallelism in DocumentsThe results in the previous section showed thatthe parallelism effect, which so far had only beendemonstrated in comprehension studies, is also at-tested in corpora, i.e., in production data.
In thepresent experiment, we will investigate the mech-anisms underlying the parallelism effect.
As dis-cussed in Section 1, there are two possible explana-830PP SBAR N DT N DT ADJ N00.51ProbabilityPriorAdaptationFigure 6: Adaptation between sentences in theBrown corpusPP SBAR N DT N DT ADJ N00.51ProbabilityPriorAdaptationFigure 7: Adaptation between sentences in the WSJcorpustion for the effect: one in terms of a construction-specific copying mechanism, and one in terms ofa generalized syntactic priming mechanism.
In thefirst case, we predict that the parallelism effect is re-stricted to coordinate structures, while in the secondcase, we expect that parallelism (a) is independent ofcoordination, and (b) occurs in the wider discourse,i.e., not only within sentences but also between sen-tences.4.1 MethodThe method used was the same as in Experiment 1(see Section 3.1), with the exception that the primeset and the target set are no longer restricted tobeing the first and second conjunct in a coordi-nate structure.
We investigated three levels of gran-ularity: within sentences, between sentences, andwithin documents.
Within-sentence parallelism oc-curs when the prime NP and the target NP oc-cur within the same sentence, but stand in an ar-PP SBAR N DT N DT ADJ N00.51ProbabilityPriorAdaptationFigure 8: Adaptation within documents in the Browncorpus (all items exhibit weak yet statistically signif-icant positive adaptation)PP SBAR N DT N DT ADJ N00.51ProbabilityPriorAdaptationFigure 9: Adaptation within documents in the WSJcorpusbitrary structural relationship.
Coordinate NPs wereexcluded from this analysis, so as to make sure thatany within-sentence parallelism is not confoundedcoordination parallelism as established in Experi-ment 1.
Between-sentence parallelism was measuredby regarding as the target the sentence immediatelyfollowing the prime sentence.
In order to investi-gate within-document parallelism, we split the doc-uments into equal-sized halves; then the adaptationprobability was computed by regarding the first halfas the prime and the second half as the target (thismethod is the same as Church?s method for measur-ing lexical adaptation).The analyses were conducted using the WallStreet Journal and the Brown portion of the PennTreebank.
The document boundary was taken to bethe file boundary in these corpora.
The Switchboardcorpus is a dialog corpus, and therefore needs tobe treated differently: turns between speakers rather831than sentences should be level of analysis.
We willinvestigate this separately in Experiment 3 below.4.2 ResultsThe results for the within-sentence analysis aregraphed in Figures 4 and 5 for the Brown and WSJcorpus, respectively.
We find that there is a paral-lelism effect in both corpora, for all the NP typesinvestigated.
Figures 6?9 show that the same is truealso for the between-sentence and within-documentanalysis: parallelism effects are obtained for all NPtypes and for both corpora, even it the parallel struc-tures occur in different sentences or in different doc-ument halves.
(The within-document probabilitiesfor the Brown corpus (in Figure 8) are close to onein most cases; the differences between the prior andadaptation are nevertheless significant.
)In general, note that the parallelism effects un-covered in this experiment are smaller than theeffect demonstrated in Experiment 1: The differ-ences between the prior probabilities and the adap-tation probabilities (while significant) are markedlysmaller than those uncovered for parallelism in co-ordinate structure.24.3 DiscussionThis experiment demonstrated that the parallelismeffect is not restricted to coordinate structures.Rather, we found that it holds across the board: forNPs that occur in the same sentence (and are not partof a coordinate structure), for NPs that occur in ad-jacent sentences, and for NPs that occur in differ-ent document halves.
The between-sentence effecthas been demonstrated in a more restricted from byGries (2005) and Szmrecsanyi (2005), who investi-gate priming in corpora for cases of structural choice(e.g., between a dative object and a PP object forverbs like give).
The present results extend this find-ing to arbitrary NPs, both within and between sen-tences.The fact that parallelism is a pervasive phe-nomenon, rather than being limited to coordinatestructures, strongly suggests that it is an instance ofa general syntactic priming mechanism, which hasbeen an established feature of accounts of the humansentence production system for a while (e.g., Bock,2The differences between the priors and adaptation proba-bilities are also much smaller than noted by Church (2000).
Theprobabilities of the rules we investigate have a higher marginalprobability than the lexical items of interest to Church.1986).
This runs counter to the claims made by Fra-zier et al (2000) and Frazier and Clifton (2001), whohave argued that parallelism only occurs in coordi-nate structures, and should be accounted for using aspecialized copying mechanism.
(It is important tobear in mind, however, that Frazier et al only makeexplicit claims about comprehension, not about pro-duction.
)However, we also found that parallelism effectsare clearly strongest in coordinate structures (com-pare the differences between prior and adaptationin Figures 1?3 with those in Figures 4?9).
Thiscould explain why Frazier et al?s (2000) experi-ments failed to find a significant parallelism effectin non-coordinated structures: the effect is simplytoo week to detect (especially using the self-pacedreading paradigm they employed).5 Experiment 3: Parallelism inSpontaneous DialogExperiment 1 showed that parallelism effects can befound not only in written corpora, but also in theSwitchboard corpus of spontaneous dialog.
We didnot include Switchboard in our analysis in Experi-ment 2, as this corpus has a different structure fromthe two text corpora we investigated: it is organizedin terms of turns between two speakers.
Here, weexploit this property and conduct a further experi-ment in which we compare parallelism effects be-tween speakers and within speakers.The phenomenon of structural repetition betweenspeakers has been discussed in the experimentalpsycholinguistic literature (see Pickering and Gar-rod 2004 for a review).
According to Pickeringand Garrod (2004), the act of engaging in a dia-log facilitates the use of similar representations atall linguistic levels, and these representations areshared between speech production and comprehen-sion processes.
Thus structural adaptation should beobserved in a dialog setting, both within and be-tween speakers.
An alternative view is that produc-tion and comprehension processes are distinct.
Bockand Loebell (1990) suggest that syntactic primingin speech production is due to facilitation of theretrieval and assembly procedures that occur dur-ing the formulation of utterances.
Bock and Loebellpoint out that this production-based procedural viewpredicts a lack of priming between comprehensionand production or vice versa, on the assumption that832PP SBAR N DT N DT ADJ N00.51ProbabilityPriorAdaptationFigure 10: Adaptation between speakers in theSwitchboard corpusproduction and parsing use distinct mechanisms.
Inour terms, it predicts that between-speaker positiveadaptation should not be found, because it can onlyresult from priming from comprehension to produc-tion, or vice versa.
Conversely, the prodedural viewoutlined by Bock and Loebell predicts that positiveadaptation should be found within a given speaker?sdialog turns, because such adaptation can indeed bethe result of the facilitation of production routineswithin a given speaker.5.1 MethodWe created two sets of prime and target data totest within-speaker and between-speaker adaptation.The prime and target sets were defined in terms ofpairs of utterances.
To test between-speaker adapta-tion, we took each adjacent pair of utterances spo-ken by speaker A and speaker B, in each dialog, andthese were treated as prime and target sets respec-tively.
In the within-speaker analysis, the prime andtarget sets were taken from the dialog turns of onlyone speaker?we took each adjacent pair of dialogturns uttered by a given speaker, excluding the in-tervening utterance of the other speaker.
The earlierutterance of the pair was treated as the prime, andthe later utterance as the target.
The remainder ofthe method was the same as in Experiments 1 and 2(see Section 3.1).5.2 ResultsThe results for the between-speaker and within-speaker adaptation are shown in Figure 10 and Fig-ure 11 for same five phrase types as in the previousexperiments.PP SBAR N DT N DT ADJ N00.51ProbabilityPriorAdaptationFigure 11: Adaptation within speakers in the Switch-board corpusA positive adaptation effect can be seen in thebetween-speaker data.
For each phrase type, theadaptation probability is greater than the prior.
In thewithin-speaker data, by comparison, the magnitudeof the adaptation advantage is greatly decreased, incomparison with Figure 10.
Indeed, for most phrasetypes, the adaptation probability is lower than theprior, i.e., we have a case of negative adaptation.5.3 DiscussionThe results of the two analyses confirm that adap-tation can indeed be found between speakers in di-alog, supporting the results of experimental workreviewed by Pickering and Garrod (2004).
The re-sults do not support the notion that priming is dueto the facilitation of production processes within agiven speaker, an account which would have pre-dicted adaptation within speakers, but not betweenspeakers.The lack of clear positive adaptation effects inthe within-speaker data is harder to explain?allcurrent theories of priming would predict some ef-fect here.
One possibility is that such effects mayhave been obscured by decay processes: doing awithin-speaker analysis entails skipping an interven-ing turn, in which priming effects were lost.
We in-tend to address these concerns using more elaborateexperimental designs in future work.6 ConclusionsIn this paper, we have demonstrated a robust, perva-sive effect of parallelism for noun phrases.
We foundthe tendency for structural repetition in two differentcorpora of written English, and also in a dialog cor-833pus.
The effect occurs in a wide range of contexts:within coordinate structures (Experiment 1), withinsentences for NPs in an arbitrary structural config-uration, between sentences, and within documents(Experiment 2).
This strongly indicates that the par-allelism effect is an instance of a general processingmechanism, such as syntactic priming (Bock, 1986),rather than specific to coordination, as suggestedby (Frazier and Clifton, 2001).
However, we alsofound that the parallelism effect is strongest in co-ordinate structures, which could explain why com-prehension experiments so far failed to demonstratethe effect for other structural configurations (Frazieret al, 2000).
We leave it to future work to explainwhy adaptation is much stronger in co-ordination:is co-ordination special because of extra constrains(i.e., some kind of expected contrast/comparison be-tween co-ordinate sisters) or because of fewer con-straints (i.e., both co-ordinate sisters have a similargrammatical role in the sentence)?Another result (Experiment 3) is that the paral-lelism effect occurs between speakers in dialog.
Thisfinding is compatible with Pickering and Garrod?s(2004) interactive alignment model, and strengthensthe argument for parallelism as an instance of a gen-eral priming mechanism.Previous experimental work has found parallelismeffects, but only in comprehension data.
The presentwork demonstrates that parallelism effects also oc-cur in production data, which raises an interestingquestion of the relationship between the two datatypes.
It has been hypothesized that the human lan-guage processing system is tuned to mirror the prob-ability distributions in its environment, including theprobabilities of syntactic structures (Mitchell et al,1996).
If this tuning hypothesis is correct, then theparallelism effect in comprehension data can be ex-plained as an adaptation of the human parser to theprevalence of parallel structures in its environment(as approximated by corpus data) that we demon-strated in this paper.Note that the results in this paper not only have animpact on theoretical issues regarding human sen-tence processing, but also on engineering problemsin natural language processing, e.g., in probabilisticparsing.
To avoid sparse data problems, probabilisticparsing models make strong independence assump-tions; in particular, they generally assume that sen-tences are independent of each other.
This is partlydue to the fact it is difficult to parameterize the manypossible dependencies which may occur betweenadjacent sentences.
However, in this paper, we showthat structure re-use is one possible way in whichthe independence assumption is broken.
A simpleand principled approach to handling structure re-usewould be to use adaptation probabilities for prob-abilistic grammar rules, analogous to cache proba-bilities used in caching language models (Kuhn andde Mori, 1990).
We are currently conducting furtherexperiments to investigate of the effect of syntacticpriming on probabilistic parsing.ReferencesBock, J. Kathryn.
1986.
Syntactic persistence in language pro-duction.
Cognitive Psychology 18:355?387.Bock, Kathryn and Helga Loebell.
1990.
Framing sentences.Cognition 35(1):1?39.Branigan, Holly P., Marin J. Pickering, and Janet F. McLean.2005.
Priming prepositional-phrase attachment during com-prehension.
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning,Memory and Cognition 31(3):468?481.Carlson, Katy.
2002.
The effects of parallelism and prosody onthe processing of gapping structures.
Language and Speech44(1):1?26.Church, Kenneth W. 2000.
Empirical estimates of adaptation:the chance of two Noriegas is closer to p/2 than p2.
In Pro-ceedings of the 17th Conference on Computational Linguis-tics.
Saarbru?cken, Germany, pages 180?186.Frazier, Lyn, Alan Munn, and Chuck Clifton.
2000.
Processingcoordinate structures.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Research29(4):343?370.Frazier, Lyn, Lori Taft, Tom Roeper, Charles Clifton, and KateEhrlich.
1984.
Parallel structure: A source of facilitation insentence comprehension.
Memory and Cognition 12(5):421?430.Frazier, Lynn and Charles Clifton.
2001.
Parsing coordinatesand ellipsis: Copy ?.
Syntax 4(1):1?22.Gries, Stefan T. 2005.
Syntactic priming: A corpus-based ap-proach.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Research 35.Kuhn, Roland and Renate de Mori.
1990.
A cache-based naturallanguage model for speech recognition.
IEEE Transanctionson Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 12(6):570?583.Mauner, Gail, Michael K. Tanenhaus, and Greg Carlson.
1995.A note on parallelism effects in processing deep and surfaceverb-phrase anaphors.
Language and Cognitive Processes10:1?12.Mitchell, Don C., Fernando Cuetos, Martin M. B. Corley, andMarc Brysbaert.
1996.
Exposure-based models of humanparsing: Evidence for the use of coarse-grained (non-lexical)statistical records.
Journal of Psycholinguistic Research24(6):469?488.Pickering, Martin J. and Simon Garrod.
2004.
Toward a mech-anistic psychology of dialogue.
Behavioral and Brain Sci-ences 27(2):169?225.Szmrecsanyi, Benedikt.
2005.
Creatures of habit: A corpus-linguistic analysis of persistence in spoken English.
CorpusLinguistics and Linguistic Theory 1(1):113?149.834
