Proceedings of HLT/EMNLP 2005 Demonstration Abstracts, pages 24?25,Vancouver, October 2005.A Flexible Conversational Dialog System for MP3 PlayerFuliang Weng1Lawrence Cavedon2Badri Raghunathan1Danilo Mirkovic2Ben Bei1Heather Pon-Barry1Harry Bratt3Hua Cheng2Hauke Schmidt1Rohit Mishra4Brian Lathrop4Qi Zhang1Tobias Scheideck1Kui Xu1Tess Hand-Bender1Sandra Upson1Stanley Peters2Liz Shriberg3Carsten Bergmann4Research and Technology Center, Robert Bosch Corp., Palo Alto, California1Center for Study of Language and Information, Stanford University, Stanford, California2Speech Technology and Research Lab, SRI International, Menlo Park, California3Electronics Research Lab, Volkswagen of America, Palo Alto, California4{Fuliang.weng,badri.raghunathan,hauke.Schmidt}@rtc.bosch.com{lcavedon,huac,peters}@csli.Stanford.edu{harry,ees}@speech.sri.com{rohit.mishra,carsten.bergmann}@vw.com1 AbstractIn recent years, an increasing number of new de-vices have found their way into the cars we drive.Speech-operated devices in particular provide agreat service to drivers by minimizing distraction,so that they can keep their hands on the wheel andtheir eyes on the road.
This presentation will dem-onstrate our latest development of an in-car dialogsystem for an MP3 player designed under a jointresearch effort from Bosch RTC, VW ERL, Stan-ford CSLI, and SRI STAR Lab funded by NISTATP [Weng et al2004] with this goal in mind.This project has developed a number of new tech-nologies, some of which are already incorporatedin the system.
These include: end-pointing withprosodic cues, error identification and recoveringstrategies, flexible multi-threaded, multi-devicedialog management, and content optimization andorganization strategies.
A number of importantlanguage phenomena are also covered in the sys-tem?s functionality.
For instance, one may usewords relying on context, such as ?this,?
?that,?
?it,?and ?them,?
to reference items mentioned in par-ticular use contexts.
Different types of verbal revi-sion are also permitted by the system, providing agreat convenience to its users.
The system supportsmulti-threaded dialogs so that users can diverge toa different topic before the current one is finishedand still come back to the first after the secondtopic is done.
To lower the cognitive load on thedrivers, the content optimization component orga-nizes any information given to users based on on-tological structures, and may also refine users?queries via various strategies.
Domain knowledgeis represented using OWL, a web ontology lan-guage recommended by W3C, which shouldgreatly facilitate its portability to new domains.The spoken dialog system consists of a number ofcomponents (see Fig.
1 for details).
Instead of thehub architecture employed by Communicator pro-jects [Senef et al 1998], it is developed in Java anduses a flexible event-based, message-oriented mid-dleware.
This allows for dynamic registration ofnew components.
Among the component modulesin Figure 1, we use the Nuance speech recognitionengine with class-based ngrams and dynamicgrammars, and the Nuance Vocalizer as the TTSengine.
The Speech Enhancer removes noises andecho.
The Prosody module will provide additionalfeatures to the Natural Language Understanding(NLU) and Dialogue Manager (DM) modules toimprove their performance.The NLU module takes a sequence of recognizedwords and tags, performs a deep linguistic analysiswith probabilistic models, and produces an XML-based semantic feature structure representation.Parallel to the deep analysis, a topic classifier as-signs top n topics to the utterance, which are usedin the cases where the dialog manager cannot make24any sense of the parsed structure.
The NLU mod-ule also supports dynamic updates of the knowl-edge base.The CSLI DM module mediates and manages in-teraction.
It uses the dialogue-move approach tomaintain dialogue context, which is then used tointerpret incoming utterances (including fragmentsand revisions), resolve NPs, construct salient re-sponses, track issues, etc.
Dialogue states can alsobe used to bias SR expectation and improve SRperformance, as has been performed in previousapplications of the DM.
Detailed descriptions ofthe DM can be found in [Lemon et al2002; Mirk-ovic & Cavedon 2005].The Knowledge Manager (KM) controls access toknowledge base sources (such as domain knowl-edge and device information) and their updates.Domain knowledge is structured according to do-main-dependent ontologies.
The current KMmakes use of OWL, a W3C standard, to representthe ontological relationships between domain enti-ties.
Prot?g?
(http://protege.stanford.edu), a do-main-independent ontology tool, is used tomaintain the ontology offline.
In a typical interac-tion, the DM converts a user?s query into a seman-tic frame (i.e.
a set of semantic constraints) andsends this to the KM via the content optimizer.The Content Optimization module acts as an in-termediary between the dialogue managementmodule and the knowledge management moduleduring the query process.
It receives semanticframes from the DM, resolves possible ambigui-ties, and queries the KM.
Depending on the itemsin the query result as well as the configurableproperties, the module selects and performs an ap-propriate optimization strategy.Early evaluation shows that the system has atask completion rate of 80% on 11 tasks of MP3player domain, ranging from playing requests tomusic database queries.
Porting to a restaurant se-lection domain is currently under way.ReferencesSeneff, Stephanie, Ed Hurley, Raymond Lau, Christine Pao,Philipp Schmid, and Victor Zue, GALAXY-II: A ReferenceArchitecture for Conversational System Development, In-ternational Conference on Spoken Language Processing(ICSLP), Sydney, Australia, December 1998.Lemon, Oliver, Alex Gruenstein, and Stanley Peters, Collabo-rative activities and multi-tasking in dialogue systems,Traitement Automatique des Langues (TAL), 43(2), 2002.Mirkovic, Danilo, and Lawrence Cavedon, Practical Multi-Domain, Multi-Device Dialogue Management, Submittedfor publication, April 2005.Weng, Fuliang, Lawrence Cavedon, Badri Raghunathan, HuaCheng, Hauke Schmidt, Danilo Mirkovic, et al, Develop-ing a conversational dialogue system for cognitively over-loaded users, International Conference on SpokenLanguage Processing (ICSLP), Jeju, Korea, October 2004.25
