Proceedings of HLT/EMNLP 2005 Demonstration Abstracts, pages 16?17,Vancouver, October 2005.Translation Exercise Assistant:Automated Generation of Translation Exercisesfor Native-Arabic Speakers Learning EnglishJill BursteinEducational Testing ServicePrinceton, NJ 08541jburstein@ets.orgDaniel MarcuLanguage Weaver, IncMarina del Rey, CA 90292dmarcu@languageweaver.com1.
IntroductionMachine translation has clearly entered intothe marketplace as a helpful technology.Commercial applications are used on the internetfor automatic translation of web pages and newsarticles.
In the business environment, companiesoffer software that performs automatictranslations of web sites for localizationpurposes, and translations of businessdocuments (e.g., memo and e-mails).
Withregard to education, research using machinetranslation for language learning tools has beenof interest since the early 1990?s (Anderson,1993, Richmond, 1994, and Yasuda, 2004),though little has been developed.
Very recently,Microsoft introduced a product called WritingWizard that uses machine translation to assistwith business writing for native Chinesespeakers.
To our knowledge, this is currently theonly deployed education-based tool that usesmachine translation.Currently, all writing-based Englishlanguage learning (ELL) writing-based productsand services at Educational Testing Service relyon e-rater automated essay scoring and theCritique writing analysis tool capabilities(Burstein, Chodorow, and Leacock, 2004).
Intrying to build on a portfolio of innovativeproducts and services, we have explored usingmachine translation toward the development ofnew ELL-based capabilities.
We have developeda prototype system for automatically generatingtranslation exercises in Arabic --- theTranslation Exercise Assistant.Translation exercises are one kind of taskthat teachers can offer to give students practicewith specific grammatical structures in English.Our hypothesis is that teachers could use such atool to help them create exercises for theclassroom, homework, or quizzes.
The ideabehind our prototype is a capability that can beused either by classroom teachers to help themgenerate sentence-based translation exercisesfrom an infinite number of Arabic language textsof their choice.
The capability might beintegrated into a larger English languagelearning application.
In this latter application,these translation exercises could be created byclassroom teachers for the class or forindividuals who may need extra help withparticular grammatical structures in English.Another potential use of this system that hasbeen discussed is to use it in ESL classrooms inthe United States, to allow teachers to offerexercises in students?
native language, especiallyfor students who are competent in their ownlanguage, but only beginners in English.We had two primary goals in mind indeveloping our prototype.
First, we wanted toevaluate how well the machine translationcapability itself would work with thisapplication.
In other words, how useful were thesystem outputs that are based on the machinetranslations?
We also wanted to know to whatextent this kind of tool facilitated the task ofcreating translation exercise items.
So, howmuch time is involved for a teacher to manuallycreate these kinds of items versus using theexercise assistant tool to create them?
Manuallycreating such an item involves searching throughnumerous reference sources (e.g., paper or web-based version of newspapers), finding sentenceswith the relevant grammatical structure in thesource language (Arabic), and then manuallyproducing an English translation that can beused as an answer key.To evaluate these aspects, we implemented agraphical user interface that offered our twousers the ability to create sets of translation16exercise items for six pre-selected, grammaticalstructures.
For each structure the systemautomatically identified and offered a set of 200system-selected potential sentences per category.For the exercise creation task, we collectedtiming information that told us how long it tookusers to create 3 exercises of 10 sentences each,for each category.
In addition, users rated a setof up to 200 Arabic sentences with regard to ifthey were usable as translation exercise items, sothat we could gauge the proportion of sentencesselected by the application.
These were thesentences that remained in the set of 200because they were not selected for an exercise.Two teachers participated in the evaluation ofour prototype.
One of the users also did the taskmanually.2.
Translation Exercise Selection2.1     Data SetsThe source of the data was Arabic EnglishParallel News Part 1 and the MultipleTranslation Arabic Part 1 corpus from theLinguistic Data Consortium.1   Across these datasets we had access to about 45,000 Arabicsentences from Arabic journalistic texts takenfrom Ummah Press Service, Xinhua News andthe AFP News Service available for thisresearch.
We used approximately 10,000 ofthese Arabic sentences for system development,and selected sentences from the remainingArabic sentences for use with the interface.22.2 System DescriptionWe used Language Weaver?s3 Arabic-to-Englishsystem to translate the Arabic sentences in thedata sets.
We built a module to find the relevantgrammatical structures in the Englishtranslations.
This module first passes the English1 The LDC reference numbers for these corpora are:LDC2004T18 and LDC2003T18.2 To avoid producing sentences with overlycomplicated structures, we applied two constraints tothe English translation: 1) it contained 20 words orless, and 2) it contained only a single sentence.3 See http://www.languageweaver.com.translation to a part-of-speech tagger that assignsa part-of-speech to each word in the sentence.Another module identifies regular expressionsfor the relevant part-of-speech sequences in thesentences, corresponding to one of these sixgrammatical structures: a) subject-verbagreement, b) complex verbs, c) phrasal verbs,d) nominal compounds, e) prepositions, and f)adjective modifier phrases.
When theappropriate pattern was found in the Englishtranslation, the well-formed Arabic sentence thatcorresponds to that translation is added to the setof potential translation exercise sentencecandidates in the interface.2.3 ResultsThe outcome of the evaluation indicatedthat between 98% and 100% of automatically-generated sentence-based translation items wereselected by both users as usable for translationitems.
In addition, the time involved to createthe exercises using the tool was 2.6 times fasterthan doing the task manually.ReferencesAnderson, Don D. (1995) ?Machine Translation as aTool in Second Language Learning?, CALICOJournal 13.1, 68?97.Burstein, J., Chodorow, M., & Leacock, C. (2004).Automated essay evaluation: The Criterion onlinewriting service.
AI Magazine, 25(3), 27-36.Johnson, Rod (1993) ?MT Technology andComputer-Aided Language Learning?, in SergeiNirenburg (ed.)
Progress in Machine Translation,Amsterdam: IOS and Tokyo: Ohmsha, pages 286?287.Richmond, Ian M. (1994) ?Doing it backwards:Using translation software to teach target-languagegrammaticality?, Computer Assisted LanguageLearning 7, 65?78.Yasuda, K. Sugaya F., Sumita E, Takezawa T.,Kikui G., Yamamoto, S. (2004).
AutomaticMeasuring of English Language Proficiency usingMT Evaluation Technology.
Proceedings of e-Learning workshop, COLING 2004, Geneva,Switzerland.17
