Proceedings of HLT/EMNLP 2005 Demonstration Abstracts, pages 2?3,Vancouver, October 2005.Bridging the Gap between Technology and Users: Leveraging MachineTranslation in a Visual Data Triage ToolThomas Hoeft Nick Cramer M. L. Gregory Elizabeth HetzlerPacific NorthwestNational LaboratoryPacific NorthwestNational LaboratoryPacific NorthwestNational LaboratoryPacific NorthwestNational Laboratory902 Battelle Blvd.
902 Battelle Blvd.
902 Battelle Blvd.
902 Battelle Blvd.Richland, WA 99354 Richland, WA 99354 Richland, WA 99354 Richland, WA 99354{thomas.hoeft;nick.cramer;michelle.gregory;beth.hetzler}@pnl.gov1 IntroductionWhile one of the oldest pursuits in computationallinguistics (see Bar-Hillel, 1951), machine transla-tion (MT) remains an unsolved problem.
Whilecurrent research has progressed a great deal, tech-nology transfer to end users is limited.
In thisdemo, we present a visualization tool for manipu-lating foreign language data.
Using software de-veloped for the exploration and understanding oflarge amounts of text data, IN-SPIRE (Hetzler &Turner 2004), we have developed a novel approachto mining and triaging large amounts of foreignlanguage texts.
By clustering documents in theirnative language and only using translations in thedata triage phase, our system avoids the major pit-falls that plague modern machine translation.
Moregenerally, the visualization environment we havedeveloped allows users to take advantage of cur-rent NLP technologies, including MT.
We willdemonstrate use of this tool to triage a corpus offoreign text.2 IN-SPIREIN-SPIRE (Hetzler et al, 2004) is a visual ana-lytics tool developed by Pacific Northwest Na-tional Laboratory to facilitate the collection andrapid understanding of large textual corpora.
IN-SPIRE generates a compiled document set frommathematical signatures for each document in aset.
Document signatures are clustered accordingto common themes to enable information retrievaland visualizations.
Information is presented to theuser using several visual metaphors to expose dif-ferent facets of the textual data.
The central visualmetaphor is a galaxy view of the corpus that allowsusers to intuitively interact with thousands ofdocuments, examining them by theme.Context vectors for documents such as LSA(Deerwester  et al, 1990) provide a powerful foun-dation for information retrieval and natural lan-guage processing techniques.
IN-SPIRE leveragessuch representations for clustering, projection andqueries-by-example (QBE).
In addition to standardBoolean word queries, QBE is a process in which auser document query is converted into a mathe-matical signature and compared to the multi-dimensional mathematical representation of thedocument corpus.
A spherical distance thresholdadjustable by the end user controls a query resultset.
Using IN-SPIRE?s group functionality, sub-sets of the corpus are identified for more detailedanalyses.
Information analysts can isolate mean-ingful document subsets into groups for hypothesistesting and the identification of trends.
Dependingon the corpus, one or more clusters may be lessinteresting to users.
Removal of these documents,called ?outliers?, enables the investigator to moreclearly understand the relationships between re-maining documents.
These tools expose variousfacets of document text and document inter-relationships.3 Foreign Language Triage CapabilitiesInformation analysts need to sift through largedatasets quickly and efficiently to identify relevantinformation for knowledge discovery.
The need tosift through foreign language data complicates thetask immensely.
The addition of foreign languagecapabilities to IN-SPIRE addresses this need.
Wehave integrated third party translators for over 40languages and  third party software for languageidentification.
Datasets compiled with languagedetection allow IN-SPIRE to automatically selectthe most appropriate translator for each document.To triage a foreign language dataset, the sys-tem clusters the documents in their native language2(with no pre-translation required).
A user can thenview the cluster labels, or peak terms, in the nativelanguage, or have them translated via Systran(Senellart et al, 2003) or CyberTrans (not publiclyavailable).
The user can then explore the clusters toget a general sense of the thematic coverage of thedataset.
They identify clusters relevant to their in-terests and the tool reclusters to show more subtlethemes differentiating the remaining documents.
Ifthey search for particular words, the clusters andtranslated labels help them distinguish the variouscontexts in which those words appear.
Finding acluster of document of interest, a particular docu-ment or set of documents can be viewed and trans-lated on demand.
This avoids the need to translatethe entire document set, so that only the documentsof interest are translated.
The native text is dis-played alongside the translation at all stages.4 EvaluationSince this is a prototype visualization tool wehave yet to conduct formal user evaluations.
Wehave begun field testing this tool with users whoreport successful data triage in foreign languageswith which they are not familiar.
We have alsobegun evaluations involving parallel corpora.
Us-ing Arabic English Parallel News Text (LDC2004), which contains over 8,000 human translateddocuments from various Arabic new sources, weprocessed the English version in IN-SPIRE to viewthe document clusters and their labels.
We alsoprocessed the Arabic version in Arabic accordingto the description above.
The two screenshots be-low demonstrate that the documents clustered insimilar manners (note that cluster labels have beentranslated in the Arabic data).Figure 1: Galaxy view of the Arabic and Englishclusters and labelsTo demonstrate that our clustering algorithm onthe native language is an efficient and reliablemethod for data triage on foreign language data,we also pre-translated the data with CyberTransand clustered on the output.
Figure 3, demonstratesthat similar clusters arise out of this methodology.However, the processing time was increased 15-ld with no clear advantage for data triage.foFigure 3: Galaxy view of the pre-translated Ara-bic to English clusters and labelslue fromexisting machine translation capabilities.nslation.
American Documenta-n 2 (4),  pp.229-237.omputer Graphics and Applications, 24(5):22-26.f the Society for Informationcience, 41(6):391-407..edu/Catalog/catalogEntry.jsp?catagId=LDC2004T18chnology.
MT SummitIX.
New Orleans, Louisianna.Initial user reports and comparisons with a par-allel corpus demonstrate that our visualization en-vironment enables users to search through andcluster massive amounts of data without nativespeaker competence or dependence on a machinetranslation system.
Users can identify clusters ofpotential interest with this tool and translate (byhuman or machine) only those documents of rele-vance.
We have demonstrated that this visualiza-tion tool allows users to derive high vaReferencesBar-Hillel, Yehoshua, 1951.
The present state of re-search on mechanical tratioHetzler, Elizabeth and Alan Turner.
2004.
?AnalysisExperiences Using Information Visualization,?
IEEECDeerwester, S., S.T.
Dumais, T.K.
Landauer, G.W.Furnas, R.A. Harshman.
1990.
Indexing by Latent Se-mantic Analysis.
Journal oSLinquistic Data Consortium.
2004.http://www.ldc.upennloSenellart, Jean; Jin Yang, and Anabel Rebollo.
2003.SYSTRAN Intuitive Coding Te3
