Proceedings of HLT/EMNLP 2005 Demonstration Abstracts, pages 30?31,Vancouver, October 2005.MBOI: Discovery of Business Opportunities on the InternetExtended AbstractArman Tajarobi, Jean-Franc?ois GarneauNstein TechnologiesQu?ebec, Canada{arman.tajarobi,jf.garneau}@nstein.comFranc?ois ParadisUniversit?e de Montr?ealQu?ebec, Canadaparadifr@iro.umontreal.caWe propose a tool for the discovery of businessopportunities on the Web, more specifically to helpa user find relevant call for tenders (CFT), i.e.
in-vitations to contractors to submit a tender for theirproducts/services.
Simple keyword-based Informa-tion Retrieval do not capture the relationships in thedata, which are needed to answer the complex needsof the users.
We therefore augment keywords withinformation extracted through natural language pro-cessing and business intelligence tools.
As opposedto most systems, this information is used at all stagesin the back-end and interface.
The benefits are two-fold: first we obtain higher precision of search andclassification, and second the user gains access to adeeper level of information.Two challenges are: how to discover new CFTand related documents on the Web, and how to ex-tract information from these documents, knowingthat the Web offers no guarantee on the structure andstability of those documents.
A major hurdle to thediscovery of new documents is the poor degree of?linkedness?
between businesses, and the open topicarea, which makes topic-focused Web crawling (Ag-garwal et al, 2001) unapplicable.
To extract infor-mation, wrappers (Soderland, 1999), i.e.
tools thatcan recognise textual and/or structural patterns, havelimited success because of the diversity and volatil-ity of Web documents.Since we cannot assume a structure for docu-ments, we exploit information usually contained inCFTs: contracting authority, opening/closing date,location, legal notices, conditions of submission,classification, etc.
These can appear marked up withtags or as free-text.A first type of information to extract are the so-called named entities (Maynard et al, 2001), i.e.names of people, organisations, locations, time orquantities.
To these standard entities we add someapplication-specific entities such as FAR (regulationnumber), product dimensions, etc.
To extract namedentities we use Nstein NFinderTM, which uses a com-bination of lexical rules and a dictionary.
More de-tails about the entities, statistics and results can befound in (Paradis and Nie, 2005a).We use another tool, Nstein NconceptTM, to ex-tract concepts, which capture the ?themes?
or ?rele-vant phrases?
in a document.
NConcept uses a com-bination of statistics and linguistic rules.As mentioned above, CFTs not only contains in-formation about the subject of the tender, but alsoprocedural and regulation information.
We tag pas-sages in the document as ?subject?
or ?non-subject?,according to the presence or absence of the mostdiscriminant bigrams.
Some heuristics are also ap-plied to use the ?good predictors?
such as URL andmoney, or to further refine the non-subject passagesinto ?regulation?.
More details can be found in (Par-adis and Nie, 2005b).Another information to extract is the industry orservice, according to a classification schema suchas NAICS (North American Industry ClassificationSystem) or CPV (Common Procurement Vocabu-lary).
We perform multi-schema, multi-label classi-fication, which facilitates use across economic zones(for instance, an American user may not be familiarwith CPV, a European standard) and confusion overschemas versions (NAICS version 1997/Canada vs.NAICS version 2002).
Our classifier is a simpleNaive Bayes, trained over 20,000 documents gath-ered from an American Government tendering site,FBO (Federal Business Opportunities).
Since wehave found classification to be sensitive to the pres-30ence of procedural contents, we remove non-subjectpassages, as tagged above.
The resulting perfor-mance is 61% micro-F1 (Paradis and Nie, 2005b).Finally, a second level of extraction is performedto infer information about organisations: their con-tacts, business relationships, spheres of activities,average size of contract, etc.
This is refered to asbusiness intelligence (Betts, 2003).
For this extrac-tion we not only use CFTs, but also awards (i.e.past information about successful bids) and news(i.e.
articles published about an organisation).
Fornews, we collect co-occurences of entities and clas-sify them using a semantic network.
For example,the passage ?Sun vs. Microsoft?
is evidence towardsthe two companies being competitors.The extracted information is indexed and queriedusing Apache Lucene., with a Web front-end servedby Jakarta Turbine.
The interface was designed tohelp the user make the most of the extracted infor-mation, whether in query formulation, document pe-rusing, or navigation.Our system supports precise queries by index-ing free-text and extracted information separately.For example, the simple keyword query ?bush?
re-turns all documents where the word occurs, includ-ing documents about bush trimming and presidentBush, while the query ?person:Bush?
only returnsdocuments about President Bush.
However suchqueries are not very user-friendly.
We thus providean interface for advanced queries and query refine-ment.The extracted information from the 100 top queryresults is gathered and presented in small scrollablelists, one for each entity type.
For example, startingwith keyword ?bush?, the user sees a list of peoplein the ?person?
box, and could choose ?Bush?
to re-fine her query.
The list is also used to expand thequery with a related concept (for example, ?removalservices?
is suggested for ?snow?
), the expansion ofan acronym, etc.Queries can be automatically translated usingCross-Language Information Retrieval techniques(Peters et al, 2003).
To this end we have built a sta-tistical translation model trained from a collectionof 100,000 French-English pair documents from aEuropean tendering site, TED (Tenders ElectronicDaily).
Two dictionaries were built: one with simpleterms, and one with ?concepts?, extracted as above.The intuition is that simple terms will offer betterrecall while concepts will give better precision.The interface shows and allows navigation to theextracted information.
When viewing a CFT, theuser can highlight the entities, as well as the subjectand regulation passages.
She can also click on anorganisation to get a company profile, which showsthe business intelligence attributes as well as relateddocuments such as past awards or news.We are currently expanding the business intelli-gence functionalities, and implementing user ?pro-files?, which will save contextual or background in-formation and use it transparently to affect querying.AcknowledgmentsThis project was financed jointly by Nstein Tech-nologies and NSERC.ReferencesCharu C. Aggarwal, Fatima Al-Garawi, and Philip S.Yu.
2001.
Intelligent crawling on the world wideweb with arbitrary predicates.
In Proceedings Inter-national WWW Conference.Mitch Betts.
2003.
The future of business intelligence.Computer World, 14 April.D.
Maynard, V. Tablan, C. Ursu, H. Cunningham, andY.
Wilks.
2001.
Named entity recognition from di-verse text types.
In Recent Advances in Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 257?274.Franc?ois Paradis and Jian-Yun Nie.
2005a.
Discoveryof business opportunities on the internet with informa-tion extraction.
In IJCAI-05 Workshop on Multi-AgentInformation Retrieval and Recommender Systems, 31July.Franc?ois Paradis and Jian-Yun Nie.
2005b.
Filtering con-tents with bigrams and named entities to improve textclassification.
In Asia Information Retrieval Sympo-sium, 13?15 October.C.
Peters, M. Braschler, J. Gonzalo, and M. Kluck, edi-tors.
2003.
Advances in Cross-Language InformationRetrieval Systems.
Springer.Stephen Soderland.
1999.
Learning information extrac-tion rules for semi-structured and free text.
MachineLearning, 44(1).31
