Proceedings of HLT/EMNLP 2005 Demonstration Abstracts, pages 4?5,Vancouver, October 2005.Classummary:Introducing Discussion Summarization to Online ClassroomsLiang Zhou, Erin Shaw, Chin-Yew Lin, and Eduard HovyUniversity of Southern CaliforniaInformation Sciences Institute4676 Admiralty WayMarina del Rey, CA 90292-6695{liangz, shaw, hovy}@isi.eduAbstractThis paper describes a novel summariza-tion system, Classummary, for interactiveonline classroom discussions.
This systemis originally designed for Open SourceSoftware (OSS) development forums.However, this new application providesvaluable feedback on designing summari-zation systems and applying them to eve-ryday use, in addition to the traditionalnatural language processing evaluationmethods.
In our demonstration at HLT,new users will be able to direct this sum-marizer themselves.1 IntroductionThe availability of many chat forums reflects theformation of globally dispersed virtual communi-ties, one of which is the very active and growingmovement of Open Source Software (OSS) devel-opment.
Working together in a virtual communityin non-collocated environments, OSS developerscommunicate and collaborate using a wide rangeof web-based tools including Internet Relay Chat(IRC), electronic mailing lists, and more.Another similarly active virtual community isthe distributed education community.
Whethercourses are held entirely online or mostly on-campus, online asynchronous discussion boardsplay an increasingly important role, enabling class-room-like communication and collaborationamongst students, tutors and instructors.
The Uni-versity of Southern California, like many otheruniversities, employs a commercial online coursemanagement system (CMS).
In an effort to bridgeresearch and practice in education, researchers atISI replaced the native CMS discussion board withan open source board that is currently used by se-lected classes.
The board provides a platform forevaluating new teaching and learning technologies.Within the discussion board teachers and studentspost messages about course-related topics.
Thediscussions are organized chronologically withintopics and higher-level forums.
These ?live?
dis-cussions are now enabling a new opportunity, theopportunity to apply and evaluate advanced naturallanguage processing (NLP) technology.Recently we designed a summarization systemfor technical chats and emails on the Linux kernel(Zhou and Hovy, 2005).
It clusters discussions ac-cording to subtopic structures on the sub-messagelevel, identifies immediate responding pairs usingmachine-learning methods, and generates subtopic-based mini-summaries for each chat log.
Incorpo-ration of this system into the ISI Discussion Boardframework, called Classummary, benefits bothdistance learning and NLP communities.
Summa-ries are created periodically and sent to studentsand teachers via their preferred medium (emails,text messages on mobiles, web, etc).
This relievesusers of the burden of reading through a large vol-ume of messages before participating in a particu-lar discussion.
It also enables users to keep track ofall ongoing discussions without much effort.
At thesame time, the discussion summarization systemcan be measured beyond the typical NLP evalua-4tion methodologies, i.e.
measures on content cov-erage.
Teachers and students?
willingness and con-tinuing interest in using the software will be aconcrete acknowledgement and vindication of suchresearch-based NLP tools.
We anticipate a highlyinformative survey to be returned by users at theend of the service.2  Summarization FrameworkIn this section, we will give a brief description ofthe discussion summarization framework that isapplied to online classroom discussions.One important component in the original system(Zhou and Hovy, 2005) is the sub-message clus-tering.
The original chat logs are in-depth technicaldiscussions that often involve multiple sub-topics,clustering is used to model this behavior.
In Clas-summary, the discussions are presented in an orga-nized fashion where users only respond to andcomment on specific topics.
Thus, it eliminates theneed for clustering.All messages in a discussion are related to thecentral topic, but to varying degrees.
Some are an-swers to previously asked questions, some makesuggestions and give advice where they are re-quested, etc.
We can safely assume that for thistype of conversational interactions, the goal of theparticipants is to seek help or advice and advancetheir current knowledge on various course-relatedsubjects.
This kind of interaction can be modeledas one problem-initiating message and one or morecorresponding problem-solving messages, formallydefined as Adjacent Pairs (AP).
A support vectormachine, pre-trained on lexical and structural fea-tures for OSS discussions, is used to identify themost relevant responding messages to the initialpost within a topic.Having obtained all relevant responses, weadopt the typical summarization paradigm to ex-tract informative sentences to produce concisesummaries.
This component is modeled after theBE-based multi-document summarizer (Hovy etal., 2005).
It consists of three steps.
First, impor-tant basic elements (BEs) are identified accordingto their likelihood ratio (LR).
BEs are automati-cally created minimal semantic units of the formhead-modifier-relation (for example, ?Libyans |two | nn?, ?indicted | Libyans | obj?, and ?indicted| bombing | for?).
Next, each sentence is given ascore which is the sum of its BE scores, computedin the first step, normalized by its length.
Lastly,taking into consideration the interactions amongsummary sentences, a MMR (Maximum MarginalRelevancy) model (Goldstein et al, 1999) is usedto extract sentences from the list of top-rankedsentences computed from the second step.3 AccessibilityClassummary is accessible to students and teacherswhile classes are in session.
At HLT, we will dem-onstrate an equivalent web-based version.
Discus-sions are displayed on a per-topic basis; andmessages belonging to a specific discussion arearranged in ascending order according to theirtimestamps.
While viewing a new message on atopic, the user can choose to receive a summary ofthe discussion so far or an overall summary on thetopic.
Upon receiving the summary (for students,at the end of an academic term), a list of questionsis presented to the user to gather comments onwhether Classummary is useful.
We will show thesurvey results from the classes (which will haveconcluded by then) at the conference.ReferencesHovy, E., C.Y.
Lin, and L. Zhou.
2005.
A BE-basedmulti-document summarizer with sentence compres-sion.
To appear in Proceedings of Multilingual Sum-marization Evaluation (ACL 2005), Ann Arbor, MI.Goldstein, J., M. Kantrowitz, V. Mittal, and J. Car-bonell.
Summarizing Text Documents: Sentence Se-lection and Evaluation Metrics.
Proceedings of the22nd International ACM Conference on Research andDevelopment in Information Retrieval (SIGIR-99),Berkeley, CA, 121-128.Zhou, L. and E. Hovy.
2005.
Digesting virtual ?geek?culture: The summarization of technical internet re-lay chats.
To appear in Proceedings of Association ofComputational Linguistics (ACL 2005), Ann Arbor,MI.5
