Asser t ions  f rom Discourse  S t ructureWilliam C. MannUSC Information Sciences InstituteandSandra A. ThompsonUCLA Linguistics DepartmentI nt rod u ct ionAs part of an ongoing study of discourse structure of natural texts, we haveidentified a particular class of propositions that affect the bearer's perception of thecoherence and communicated content of texts.
As an example, if the text (spoken ina suitable situation) is:"I'm hungry.
Let's go to the Fuji Gardens.
"then the most natural interpretation is that the Fuji Gardens is a restaurant at whichthe speaker would like to eat with the hearer.
The text is heard as exhibiting aproblem-and-solution structure.
Consequently, we can say that there is a propositionwhich says that there is a "solutionhood" relation between the two sentences.
In thiscase, going to the Fuji Gardens (partially) solves the hunger problem.The solutionhood construct is one type of re/ational propositions.
Note thatthe proposition about solutionhood is not stated explicitly in the text.Although phenomena resembling relational propositions have beenrecognized, there is no widely accepted explanation of how they arise from text.
Thispaper characterizes relational propositions and presents a theory of discoursestructure to explain them.
In this Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST), relationalpropositions arise in direct correspondence to particular elements of the structure ofa discourse.We present Rhetorical Structure Theory progressively during analysis of apublished, two-paragraph political advocacy text.
The text involves substructures forinforming, giving evidence, conceding, requesting an action, justifying a presentation,asserting conditionally, and others.The two elements that form the basis for this paper, relational propositions andRhetorical Structure Theory, have both been described in more detail elsewhere.
Theexplanatory relation between them, however, has not \[Mann & Thompson 83, Mann84\].257\[Mann & Thompson 83\] examines various other theoretical constructs,including implicature, presupposition and indirect speech acts, to see whether theyaccount for the textual properties of relational propositions.
It concludes that theseconstructs do not account for them.
The paper also discusses relationships betweenrelational propositions and the work of Grime& Hobbs, van Dijk, Martin, Longacre,Beekman and Callow, and it includes analyses of several texts.1 The Phenomenon of Relational Proposit ionsThe Fuji Gardens statement and the solutionhood relation have alreadyillustrated that relational propositions need not be signalled explicitly in order to berecognized.
1 Extending the example, we now describe properties relationalpropositions hold more generally, giving special attention to those properties that canbe accounted for by Rhetorical Structure Theory.1.1 Relational Propositions AssertIn our informal presentations of relational propositions, virtually everyonerecognizes that texts such as the political letter analyzed in this paper convey theparticular relational propositions that we attribute to them, even though it does notrepresent them explicitly.
If the text author were to deny a particular relationalproposition, most readers would be surprised--and puzzled about the status of thepart of the text containing that proposition.This general consensus testifies that the relational proposition is conveyed.Further evidence lies in the apparent redundancy or somewhat bizarre markednessthat occurs when the relational proposition is asserted explicitly by adding a clause tothe text:"I'm hungry.
Let's go to Fuji Gardens.
Our going to Fuji Gardens wouldcontribute significantly to solving the problem of my hunger.
"1.2 Relational Propos i t ions are Coherence ProducingOne way to demonstrate that a relational proposition is coherence-producingis to insert a denial of the relational proposition into the text.
Doing so makes someportion of the text a non-sequitur:"I'm hungry.
Let's go to the Fuji Gardens.
Of course, going to the FujiGardens won't do anything about my hunger.
"1We use constructed examples in this section only, tor expository reasons.
RST is a theory of naturaltext; it was developed entirely on natural texts, such as the political advocacy text analyzed below.258The second sentence above has become a non-sequitur, and as a result thetext as a whole is incoherent.
Relational propositions are alwayscoherence-producing in this way.
We will see later that this is a consequencepredictable from RST, particularly from the structural forms that RST posits.
Also,relational propositions are always present in coherent multisentence texts.1.3 Other Kinds of Relational PropositionsThe list below names several kinds of relational propositions besidessolutionhood, and gives an example of an asserted, coherence-producing propositionfor each.
These are drawn form the larger collection of \[Mann & Thompson 83\]; webelieve that still more kinds of relational propositions could be discovered or perhapscreated .2EVIDENCE: They're having a party again next door.
I couldn't find a parkingspace.ELABORATION: I love to collect classic automobiles.
My favorite car is my 1899Duryea.MOTIVATION: Take Bufferin.
The buffering component prevents excessstomach acid.THESIS/ANTITHESIS:Players want the referee to balance a bad call benefiting one teamwith a bad call benefiting the other.
As a referee, I just want to calleach play as I see it.CONCESSION: I know you have great credentials.
I'm looking for someone withgreat experience.CONDITION: Give her a subscription to Science magazine.
She'll be in seventhheaven.REASON: I'm going to the corner.
We're all out of milk.JUSTIFICATION: Let me make one thing perfectly clear.
I am not a crook.We desire a theory that will answer two questions about relationalpropositions:1.
What relational propositions are possible?2We have abundant natural correlates for these constructed examples.
They have been designed toillustrate the fact that the relations and relational propositions are identifiable, without any explicitsignalling, such as a dause, conjunction, or lexical selection.2592.
What  relat ional proposit ions does  a part icular text  assert?The answers come from studying discourse.2 Rhetorical Structure TheoryRST has not been developed simply to account for relational propositions; itarose from a much broader desire to understand text and communication and to learnhow texts may be created.
We identified and began studying relational propositionsonly after RST had largely assumed its present shape.We wanted a theory of text organization--a way to describe what kinds of partsa text can have, how they can be arranged, and how parts can be connected to form awhole text.
We especially valued the following attributes.1.
Comprehens iveness:  The theory should apply to many kinds of text.2.
Funct ional i ty :  The theory should be informative in terms of how textachieves its effects for the writer..
Scale insens i t iv i ty :  The theory should apply to a wide range of sizes oftext and should be capable of describing all of thevarious sized units oftext organization that occur in a large text.4.
Def in i teness:  The theory should lend itself to formalization andcomputer programming;5.
Const ruct ive  potential:  The theory should be usable in textconstruction as well as text description.We developed this theory primarily in response to small written texts, althoughit has also been applied to larger texts.
We have constructed RST descriptions for avariety of texts, including:- Administrative memos- Personal letters- Advertisements- Editorial letters in magazines- Complete Scientific American articles- Newspaper articles- Public notices in magazines- Research technical reports- Travel brochures- Cookbook recipes260To introduce the theory, let us consider the analysis of a text that appeared ina political newsletter, The Insider, Vol.
2.1, July 1982.
3 The Insider is the CaliforniaCommon Cause state newsletter.
This text was the "con" part of a "pro" and "con"pair of letters on the issue of California Common Cause's endorsement of the nuclearfreeze initiative, which was then on the California state ballot.The text has been reformatted, numbered, and divided the text into units.Units are roughly equivalent to clauses, except that that relative clauses andcomplement clauses are considered to be part of the unit in which their governingitem appears, rather than as independent units.
As long as the whole text is analyzed,the size of the minimal units can vary without affecting the larger analysis.1.
I don't believe that endorsing the Nuclear Freeze Initiative is the right stepfor California CC.2.
Tempting as it may be,3.
we shouldn't embrace every popular issue that comes along.4.
When we do so5.
we use precious, limited resources where other players with superiorresources are already doing an adequate job.6.
Rather, I think we will be stronger and more effective7.
if we stick to those issues of governmental structure and process, broadlydefined, that have formed the core of our agenda for years.8.
Open government, campaign finance reform, and fighting the influence ofspecial interests and big money, these are our kinds of issues.3Le~er used by permission2619.
(New paragraph) Let's be clear:10.
I personally favor the initiative and ardently support disarmamentnegotiations to reduce the risk of war.11.
But I don't think endorsing a specific nuclear freeze proposal isappropriate for CCC.12.
We should limit our involvement in defense and weaponry to matters ofprocess, such as exposing the weapons industry's influence on thepolitical process.13.
Therefore, I urge you to vote against a CCC endorsement of the nuclearfreeze initiative.
(signed) Michael As imow, California Common Cause Vice-Chair  andUCLA Law ProfessorHow is this text organized?
At the most general level, the text as a wholefunctions as a request to vote in a certain way.
At its coarsest level of decomposition,it has two parts.
One part presents the request, presented in segment 13, and theremainder supports that presentation.The theory has a number of patterns, called rhetorical schemas, that representorganizational information about text.
To represent the particulars of two-partdecomposition of the text, we use one of these rhetorical schemas, the RequestSchema, Figure 1.RequestI .
.
_T .~.~a b lem en tFigure 1: Request SchemaA text that instantiates the Request Schema has a nuclear part, called thenucleus, that presents a request.
It also has one or more supplementary parts, calledsatellites, that are functionally related to the nucleus.
Satellites are related to thenucleus by a named relation.
Here we have relations named motivation andenablement.262Let us illustrate the parts of a Request Schema in a short example:"Call me.
I have a surprise for you.
My extension number is 110.
"The nucleus is "Call me," the motivation satellite is "1 have a surprise for you," andthe enablement satellite is "My extension number is 110."
These elements can bearranged in any order and still be an instance of the Request Schema.
Schemas donot encode the order of segments; in this case, the segments can be rearranged freelywithout disturbing their meaning or structural relation.Satellites are all optional, so we can delete either one in this example and stillinstantiate the Request Schema-but there must be at least one satellite.
The politicaltext has a motivation satellite, segments 1 through 12, but no enablement satellite.We analyze each of the two top-level segments of the political text in the sameway.
The final segment is a single unit, so we don't try to divide it.
The first segment,12 units long, consists of a claim (unit 1) and two arguments that give evidence for theclaim.
We analyze this arrangement with the Evidence Schema (Figure 2), in whichthe claim is the nucleus and an evidence relation connects the nucleus to the ,satellite.Figure 3 shows the resulting structure.EvidenceFigure 2: Evidence Schema RequestEvidence~idence  //2 3 4 5 6Figure 3:7 8 9 10 11 12The Upper Structure of the Political Text13263Both of the nuclei obey what we call the Most Favorable Audience Rule: F.orthe most knowledqeable and D0sitivelv Dredisoosed hearer, the nucleus al0n@ wouldbe sufficient to perform the function of the structure; the ~atellit~ function to inCreasEthe likelihood that the nuCleus will succeed.
This rule is a summary of manyobservations about the rhetorical structures of texts.
It does not always hold, butthere is a strong, unexplained tendency for it to hold.In this case of the Request Schema, presenting the request (to vote in a certainway) to a favorably predisposed hearer would be enough to get that reader to vote asdesired; the supporting argument makes the desired vote more likely for most readers.This application of the Evidence Schema contains two arguments: One saysthat the proposal is wasteful, and the other says that better alternatives exist.
Theymake the reader more likely to accept the claim that endorsement is not right.
4The analysis goes on, down to single units.schemas used.
They are drawn fromthrough use of about 30 relations.Thesix /AntithesisJ ~sis~t i thes i sFigure 4 shows the additionala larger set of about 25 schemas, definedConcessiveconcess ion~ /lnformbackg .
/ r o u ~Just05justification/"~"~"~ \[Co.ditionalFigu re 4: Other Schemas Used to Analyze the Political Text4Although the unit begins "1 don't believe that...," the claim here is really about whether this step is rightfor CCC.
The evidence that follows in units 2 through 11 is about what benefits C, CC, not about whether theauthor believes this claim or not.
RST does not represent the indirectness of the form of the claim.264To illustrate the relations used here, we turn back to the text.The thesis~antithesis relation connects units 11 and 12.
11: "But I don't thinkendorsing a specific nuclear freeze proposal is appropriate for CCC."
12: "Weshould limit our involvement..."The concessive relation connects units 2 and 3: 2: "Tempting as it may be,"3: "we shouldn't embrace every popular issue that comes along.
"Unit 8 is an elaboration for the Inform Schema; it lists instances, such as opengovernment and campaign finance reform.Unit 9 ,says "Let's be clear."
This is in a justification relation to the argumentthat follows, in 10 through 12.
It obtains permission to present a second argument,defending the same conclusion.Finally, units 4 and 5 are in a condition relation.
4: "When we do so..." 5: "weuse precious resources..."Figure 5 shows the structure of the whole text.2.1 Definit ion Mechanisms of RSTHow is RST defined?
How do claims about particular texts arise from an RSTanalysis of it?
The theory is defined in terms of just three mechanisms: schemas,schema application conventions, and relation definitions.Schemas are simply sets of relations.
There is no schema-specific informationbeyond the identities of the relations that comprise the schema.Schema application conventions are descriptions of what it means for aparticular span of text to instantiate a schema.
Its conventions are easy to state:1.
One schema is instantiated to describe the entire text.2.
Schemas are instantiated to describe the text spans produced ininstantiating other schemas.3.
The schemas do not constrain the order of nucleus or satellites in the textspan in which the schema is instantiated.4.
All satellites are optional.5.
At least one satellite must exist.6.
A relation that is part of a schema may be instantiated indefinitely manytimes in the instantiation of that schema.265e?
c!
oco/illC,/=.- i C <1oI o0re l>~Figu re 5: Full Rhetorical Structure of the Political Text2667.
The nucleus and satellites do not necessarily correspond to a singleuninterrupted text span.8.
The relation definition must be consistent with the spans of text related bythe instantiation of the schema containing the relation.It is possible for the conventions to apply to a text in more than one way, sothat the text is rhetorically ambiguous.A relation definition specifies three kinds of information:1.
A characterization of the nucleus.2.
A characterization of the satellite.3.
A characterization of what sorts of interactions between the conceptualspan of the nucleus and the conceptual span of the satellite must beplausible.To define, for example, the motivation relation, we would include at least thefollowing.1.
The nucleus describes an action performable, but not yet performed, bythe reader.2.
The satellite describes the action, the situation in which the action takesplace, or the result of the action in ways that help the reader associatevalue assessments with the action.3.
The expected value assessments are positive, to lead the reader to wantto perform the action.The relational propositions do not arise independently of the relationdefinitions.
Rather, finding that a relation definition holds is sufficient to establish thecorresponding relational proposition.
As readers recognize the functional relations ofthe parts, they are recognizing that the relation definitions hold.
The content of therelational proposition is identified in this process.
As a consequence, the definitionscheme for RST requires no additional definitions in order to specify the relationalproposition.
In any particular case, the proposition can be derived from the way therelation definition fits.We have found the relation definitions, useful in predicting other facts aboutthe text, such as the kinds of conjunctions that will appear in certain places.
We haveanalyzed a large number of texts, including thousands of clauses, in this way.
We areconfident that we can perform this analysis, with fairly high reliability, for virtually anysmall, written, multisentence monologue in general American culture, using onlyabout 25 schemas.Note that these rhetorical schemas are defined in terms of the functions ofsegments of text.
The evidence relation applies when one segment supports anotheras evidence, Solutionhood applies when we can see one segment as identifying a267problem and another as a partial solution to that problem.
These are not criteria ofform; as one might expect, the relationship of these function categories to formcategories is quite loose.
The rhetorical structure of text, in these terms, is composedof function-specific units.
The structure does not express categories of knowledge orform as much as it expresses the roles of specific parts in relation to the whole text,especially the role of each satellite relative to one particular, immediate portion of thetext, the corresponding nucleus.3 RST as an Account  of Relat ional Proposi t ionsThe key observation for the purposes of this paper is:For every relat ion of  the rhetor ica l  s t ruc ture  o f  a text, acor respond ing  re lat ional  propos i t ion  is asserted.For solutionhood relations, the discourse structure asserts a solutionhoodproposition.
For evidence relations it asserts an evidence proposition, and so forth.Readers attribute the assertions to the text because they recognize the functionalrelations of the parts.Now we can explain why relational pi'opositions are coherence-producing.First, RST structures always have the connectivity of trees.
The schemaapplication conventions guarantee this, because when a span is decomposed, eachof the parts is further decomposed separately.If a portion of the text is to be connected to the whole without being anon-sequitur, some relation must be established.
A relation is established throughimplicit assertion of a relational proposition.
Since the relations form a tree, denial ofany one relational proposition is sufficient to separate the structure into two parts,thus destroying connectedness, a key attribute of coherence.Now we can also explain why relational propositions are always present incoherent multisentence texts.
In regarding the text as a single whole, readers imputerhetorical structure to it, necessarily positing relations between the parts; the relationsgive rise to assertion of relational propositions.We can also see how to create more precise specifications of relationalpropositions.
They can be developed from the relation definitions of RST.
RST tellswhat sorts of propositions can be relational, gives the conditions under whichrelational propositions arise, and tells how to alter a text or a situation so that theasserted relational proposition is changed.
Rather than simply searching texts forpotential relational propositions, we can search rhetorical structures for thenecessary relational propositions.2684 Uses of Rhetorical Structure TheoryRhetorical Structure Theory provides an attractive basis for explainingrelational propositions, although some details need development.In addition, RST satisfies some of the attributes identified in section 2, above,as desirable for a descriptive theory of text organization.
It is comprehensive enoughto apply to many different kinds of text; it is functional, in that it explains what variousportions of a text do for the writer.
And it is scale insensitive, applying to a wide rangeof sizes of units, from simple clauses up to whole magazine articles.However, RST still lacks two desired attributes: It needs for more detailedexpression of each part, and it would be useful to develop a constructive counterpartto the descriptions, a way to select schemas and plan texts.In addition to these attributes,benefits of RST.we recognize other opportunities for and1.
It gives a partial account of the distribution of interclausal andintersentential conjunctions.2.
It leads to new observations of text phenomena, including some related tonuclei, such as the most-favorable-reader hypothesis.3.
The advantages of a recursive theory are obtained for text structure.Beyond the phenomena identified above, RST appears to be useful inaccounting for other kinds of discourse phenomena.
We have found no boundary forits uses; it is like trying to delimit the uses of a grammar.
We have identified thefollowing as particularly attractive applications:?
Thematization and text development.
Distributions of tense selections in text- Lexical selection- Patterned shifts of hypotheticality, identifiability, or conditionality- Patterns of use of conjunctions- Purposeful clause combining.
Distribution of topicalization markers- Text ordering (under way)- Relating coherence to cohesive devices5 SummaryThe assertion of relational propositions is a hitherto unexplainedphenomenon.
Rhetorical Structure Theory provides a way to explain such assertionsin terms of discourse structure.
In addition to explaining relational propositions,269Rhetorical Structure Theory can be used to explain other text characteristics as well,and it provides a way to address a wide range of discourse phenomena.References\[Mann 84\] Mann, W. C., Discourse Structures tor Text Generation, USC/InformationSciences Institute, Technical Report RR-84-127, February 1984.
Also appearedin the proceedings of the 1984 Coling/ACL conference, July 1984.\[Mann & Thompson 83\] Mann, W. C., and S. A. Thompson, Relational Propositions inDiscourse, USC/Information Sciences Institute, Technical Report RR-83-115,July 1983.
To appear in Discourse Processes.270
