The Counselor Project at the Un/vers i ty  of MassachusettsDavid D. McDonald & James D. PustejowkyDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUn/versity of Massachusetts,Amherst, Massachusetts 01003Participants in the Counselor Project, Fall 1984 through Summer 1986:PrincipAl Investigators: Edwina L. Risslemd.
l~tvid D. McDonedd, Wendy G. LehnertResearch Associates: Beverly Woolf, James e. PustejovskyGradutte Students: Marie M. Vaughem, Briim Stucky, Penelope Sibun.
Seth Rosenberg, YellyMurreLy, Kevin Getllagher, JoAnn M. Brooks, John Brolio, Sabine Bergler, \[evin D. Ashley, ScottD.
AndersonIn t roduct ionThe COUNSELOR PROJECT began in the fall of 1984 with the goal of exploring basicproblems in discourse structure and text processing within an integrated interface to astrong expert system.
The program that we have developed, COUNSELOR, integratesseparately developed components for natural anguage generation (MUMeLE see \[7\], \[8\],\[9\]), parsing (PLUM \[5\]), and case-based legal reasoning (Hvpo \[1\], \[2\]).
It adds a newlydeveloped component, CICERO (\[ 10\]), positioned between the two text processors andthe expert system; CIc~o is responsible for managing textual inferences ("readingbetween the lines") by using common sense models of legal events.
Coussez~t canprovide advise to an attorney about how to argue cases involving violations of tradesecret law in the computer field.
The attorney presents the facts of their case to thesystem, which may ask questions to elicit other facts that it knows to be relevant.
Thesystem then suggests lines of argument that the attorney might use, drawing on itsl ibrary of litigated cases to find ones with analogous dimensions.At its present state of development, COUNSELOR can handle simple variations on asingle scenerio, exemplified by the following dialog:User:Counselor:User:Counselor:User:Counselor:I represent a client named Hacklnc, who wants to sue Swipelnc and LeroySoleil for misappropriating trade secrets in connection with softwaredeveloped by my client.
Hacklnc markets the software, known as Autotell, aprogram to automate some of a bemk teller's fUnctions, to the bankingindustry.Did Soleil work for Hacklnc.?Yes.
he was s key employee on the Autotell project.Did he later work for Swipelnc.
?Yes.You can argue that there is an implied agreement arising out of Soleil'semployment with Hscklnc.
that he not disclose any trade secretinform ttion to which he gained eu:cess by virtue of his employment.26MotivationsConsequential results in natural language research will only come from workingwith a strong underlying program whose communicative needs will challenge thecapabilities of state of the art of language interfaces.
As a group, we are notinterested in building yet another question answering system: our goal is tounderstand the structure of discourse.
We believe that an effective place to begin iswith task specific, mixed initiative dialog where the particiants' goals cannot besatisfied by single utterances.Working with a legal reasoning system like Kevin Ashley and Edwina Rissland'sHvpo provides particular challenges to natural language research:(I) Legal text is structurally complex.
The need to avoid ambiguity leads to deeplyembedded clauses and heavy noun phrases.
(2) As both the user and the system have a thorough knowledge of the law, theycommunicate vastly more information in conversations about legal arguments thanever appears in their literal utterances.
(3) Hvpo's role as an advisory system creates a natural motivation to communicatethrough language.
(4) Legal cases are large, complex objects that can be viewed from manyalternative perspectives.
The purpose for which a case is being described stronglyinfluences which of its attributes are salient and how that information should bestructured as a text.Component PartsWe began the project with three partially developed components, Hvpo, MUMBLE,and PLUM, each designed with independent motivations.
An initial tension waswhether to convert aspects of these programs that did not seem apt in their newsetting, or alternatively to interpose new components between them to smooth out thedifferences.
We concluded that the motivations underlying each component werestrong enough that we should not change them just because they were now workingtogether.H~o reasons with cases and hypotheticals.
Actually litigated legal cases areencoded and indexed by "dimensions", which capture the utility of a case for making aparticular kind of argument.
When evaluating new cases, Hvpo first analyzes them interms of the dimensions they involve.
Relevant cases are then retrieved to guide thereasoning.
The system may ask pertinent questions about facts now found to berelevant.
When the analysis is complete, H~o describes the arguments available tothe user, and responses and counter responses that may follow.MUHSLS, the linguistic component for generation, is responsible for realizingconceptual specifications as grammatical text cohesive with the discourse whichproceeds it.
MU~LE works within a description directed framework.
Its inputspecification is a description of the message the underlying program wants to27communicate.
This description is executed incrementally, producin~ an intermediatellnguistic representation wl~ich defines the text's grammatical relatlons and imposesconstraints on further realization.
This surface structure description is concurrentlyexecuted, producing the actual text.PLUM is a conceptual analyzer which has been given a well defined schematicstructure so that it can be easily extended.
It parses by doing prediction andcompletion over semantic concepts implied by the words rather than over syntacticcategories.
As in other conceptual analyzers, no explicit surface structure is recovered.Pt,uM's output is the set of completed frames.Clcmto is a new component, a discourse and inference manager between thelanguage components and the expert system.
From the understanding side, CICE20must integrate the clause by clause output of the parser into the larger discoursecontext, recognizing, for example, when noun phrases refer to the same object.
Ininterpreting these small, lexically derived frames, CIcEio draws on its ownrepresentation of events which bridges the gap between the way  such information isexpressed in language and the way  it is organized for expert legal reasoning.
Forgeneration, CIcEI~o is responsible for planning the message that is given to thegenerator.
In particular, it determines what information should be included and whatmay be omitted as inferable, and it selects pivotal lexical items with appropriateperspective and rhetorical force.Future DirectionsWhile the accomplishments of the individual components of Counselor areinteresting in their own right, the greatest effect of the project has been to provide aworkbench for studying the problems of language in an integrated context.
Perennialproblems in anaphora, lexical semantics, aspect, etc.
become more tractable in anintegrated system where there is a discourse context and intensional motivation.There are also semantic generalizations between the level at which the text processorsoperate and the level of the expert system which are more easily captured whenparsing and generation can be studied in unison.
On a larger scale, an explicitdiscourse manager, a requisite for more complex dialogs, can only be developed oncean integrated system exists.References\[I\] Ashley, Kevin D. (1986) "Modelling Legal Argument: Reasoning with csses and hypotheticals-- s thesis proposal", Technical Report I0, The Counselor Project, Department of Computerand Informstion Science, University of Msssschusetts st Amherst.\[Z\] Ashley, Kevin D. and Edvins L. Rissland (1985) "Toward Modelling Legal Argument'.Proceedings ofthe 2rid International Congress LOGICA, IIqFORMATICA, DIRITTO.
Institute~: Per I,e, Documentazione Giuridics, Florence, Italy.\[3\] Brooks, JoAnn M. (1985) "Themis: A Discourse Manager",unpubfished Master's thesis,Department ofComputer and Information Science, University of Massachusetts st jtm h erst.28\[41 Gallagher, gevin (1986) "The Design and Implementation f CICEIIO', unpublished Master'sthesis, Depsrtment ofComputer and Information Science, University of Massachusetts sAmherst.\[5\] Lehnert, Wendy G. and Seth Rosenberg (1985) "The PLUM User's Manual" TechnicalReport I,The Counselor Project.
Department of Computer and Information Science, University ofMassachusetts at Amherst.\[6\] McDonald, David D. (1986) "Natural Language Generation: Complexities and Techniques", toappear in Nirenburg (ed.)
Theoretic&l and Methodologic&l Issues in M&chineTransl~tion.
Cambridge University Press.\[7\] McDonald, Dzvid D. and James Pustejovsky (1985) "Description Directed Nstural LangaugeGeneration', Proceedings of IJCAI-85, pp.
799-805.\[8\] McDenald, David D. and Jsmes Pustejovsky (1985) "TAGs as a Grammatical Formalism forGeneration", Proceedings of the 23rd Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pp.
94--103.\[91 McDonald, David D. and Jxmes Pustejovsky (1985) "SAMSON: A ComputaLional Theory of ProseStyle for Natoral Language Generation', Proceedings oi" the 1985 meeting of the EuropeanAssociation for Computational Linguistics.\[ I0\] Pustejovsky.
James (1986) "An Integrated Theory Discourse Analysis", Technical Report I I.The Counselor Project, Depa~'tment off Computer and Information Science, University ofMassachusetts at Amherst.\[II\] Risslsnd Edwina L., Edward Valcarce, and Kevin Ashley (1984) "Explaining and Arguing withExamples", Proceedings of AAAI-84.\[12\] Vaughan, MaJ'ie M, and David D. McDonald (1986) "A Model off Revision in Natural LanguageGeneration", Proceedings of the 24th Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics.29
