A Terminological Simplification Transformation forNatural Language Question-Answering Systems 1David G. Stal lardBBN Laborator ies Inc.10 Moulton St.Cambridge, MA.02238AbstractA new method is p resented  for  s impl i fy ing the  log ica l  express ions  used  to representu t te rance  mean ing  in a natura l  language sys tem.
This s imp l i f i ca t ion  method ut i l i zesthe  encoded knowledge  and  the  l imited in fe rence-mak ing  capab i l i ty  of a taxonomicknowledge  representat ion  sys tem to reduce  the  const i tuent  s t ruc ture  of log ica lexpress ions .
The spec i f i c  app l i ca t ion  is to the  prob lem of mapp ing  express ions  of themean ing  representat ion  language to a database  language capab le  of re t r iev ing  ac tua lresponses .
Par t i cu la r  account  is taken  of the  mode l - theoret i c  aspects  of th isp rob lem.1.
IntroductionA common and use fu l  s t ra tegy  for  const ruct ing  natura l  language in ter face  sys tems isto divide the  process ing  of an u t te rance  into  two major  s tages :  the  f i rs t  mapp ing  theu t terance  to a log ica l  express ion  represent ing  i ts  "mean ing"  and  the  second produc ingf rom th is  log ica l  express ion  the  appropr ia te  response .
The second s tage  is notneccesar i l y  t r iv ia l :  the  d i f f i cu l ty  of i ts  des ign  is s ign i f igant ly  a f fec ted  by  thecomplex i ty  and  genera lness  of the  logica l  express ions  it has  to  dea l  with.
If th i s  i ssueis not  faced  square ly ,  it  may a f fec t  cho ices  made e l sewhere  in the  system.
Indeed,  aneed  to res t r i c t  the  form of the  mean ing  representat ion  can  be at  odds  withpar t i cu la r  approaches  towards  produc ing  it - as fo r  example  the  "compos i t iona l "approach ,  which does  not  seek  to cont ro l  express ion  complex i ty  by  givingin terpretat ions  for  whole phrasa l  pat terns ,  but  s imply  combines  together  the  mean ingof ind iv idua l  words  in a manner  appropr ia te  to the  syntax  of the  u t te rance .
Such  aconf l i c t  is cer ta in ly  not  des i rab le :  we want  to have  f reedom of l ingu is t i c  ac t ion  as  wellas to be ab le  to obta in  cor rec t  responses  to u t te rances .This paper  t reats  in deta i l  the  par t i cu la r  man i fes ta t ion  of these  i ssues  for  natura l -l anguage sys tems which serve  as in ter faces  to a database :  the  prob lems that  a r i se  in amodule  which maps  the  mean ing  representat ion  to a second logica l  language for1The work presented here was supported under DARPA cont rac t  ~Neee14-85-.c-0016.
The viewsand conc lus ions  conta ined  in th i s  document ore those of the author  and should not bein terpreted  as necessar i l y  represent ing  the o f f i c ia l  po l i c ies ,  e i ther  expressed or imp l ied ,of the Defense Advanced Research Pro jec ts  Agency or of the Un i ted  States  Government.
Thispaper was or ig ina l ly  pub l i shed in the Proceedings o\[ the 24th Annual Meeting o\[ theAssociation \[or Computational Linguistics, 10--13 June, 1986, Columbia Un ivers i ty ,  NewYork.
Requests for  copies should be addressed to:Dr.Donold E. Walker (ACL)Be l l  Communications Research435 South S t reet  MRE 2A379Morr istown,  NJ 07960, USA62express ing  ac tua l  database  quer ies .
A modu le  per fo rming  such  a mapp ing  is acomponent  of such  quest ion -answer ing  sys tems as TEAM \[4\], PHLIQA1 \[7\] and  IRUS \[1\].As an  example  of d i f f i cu l t ies  which may be  encountered ,  cons ider  the  quest ion  "Wasthe  pat ient ' s  mother  a d iabet ic?"
whose  log ica l  representat ion  must  be mapped onto  apar t i cu la r  boo lean  f ield wh ich  encodes  for  each  pat ient  whether  or  not  th is  complexproper ty  is t rue .
Any var ia t ion  on th i s  quest ion  which a compos i t iona l  semant icsmight  a lso  hand le ,  such  as "Was d iabetes  a d i sease  the  pat ient ' s  mother  su f fe redf rom?"
,  would resu l t  in a semant ica l ly  equ iva lent  but  very  d i f fe rent - look ing  log ica lexpress ion ;  th is  d i f fe rent  express ion  would a lso  have  to  be  mapped to th is  f ield.
Howto dea l  with these  and  many o ther  poss ib le  var iants ,  w i thout  mak ing the  mapp ingprocess  excess ive ly  complex ,  is c lear ly  a prob lem.The so lu t ion  which th is  paper  presents  is a new level  of p rocess ing ,  in termed ia tebetween the  o ther  two: a nove l  s imp l i f i ca t ion  t rans format ion  wh ich  is per fo rmed on theresu l t  of semant ic  in terpretat ion  be fore  the  a t tempt  is made to map it to thedatabase .
This s imp l i f i ca t ion  method re l ies  on knowledge  which is s to red  in ataxonomic  knowledge  representat ion  sys tem such  as NIKL \[5\].
The pr inc ip le  beh ind  themethod is that  an  express ion  may be s impl i f ied by  t rans la t ing  i ts  subexpress ions ,where  poss ib le ,  in to  the  language of NIKL, and  c lass i fy ing  the  resu l t  in to  the  taxonomyto  obta in  a s imp ler  equ iva lent  for  them.
The resu l t  is to p roduce  an  equ iva lent  butsyntact i ca l ly  s imp ler  express ion  in which fewer ,  but  more  spec i f i c ,  p roper t ies  andre la t ions  appear .
The benef i t  is that  deduct ions  f rom the  express ion  may be moreeas i ly  " read  off"; in par t i cu la r ,  the  mapp ing  becomes  eas ie r  because  the  proper t iesand  re la t ions  appear ing  are  more  l ike ly  to be  e i ther  those  of the  database  orcomposab le  f rom them.The body  of the  paper  is d iv ided into  four  sect ions .
In the  f i rs t ,  I will summar izesome past  t reatments  of the  mapp ing  between the  mean ing  representat ion  and  thequery  language,  and  show the  prob lems they  fai l  to so lve.
The second sect ionprepares  the  way by  showing how to connect  the  taxonomic  knowledge  representat ionsys tem to a log ica l  language used  for  mean ing  representat ion .
The th i rd  sect ionpresents  the  " recurs ive  te rmino log ica l  s imp l i f i ca t ion"  a lgor i thm i tsel f .
The las t  sect iondescr ibes  the  imp lementat ion  s ta tus  and  suggests  d i rec t ions  for  in teres t ing  fu turework.2.
A Formal Treatment of the Mapping ProblemThis sect ion  d i scusses  some prev ious  work  on the  prob lem of mapp ing  between thelog ica l  language used  for  mean ing  representat ion  and  the  log ica l  language in wh ichac tua l  database  quer ies  a re  expressed .
The d i f f i cu l t ies  wh ich  remain  for  theseapproaches  will be po in ted  out.A common organ izat ion  for  a database  is in te rms of tab les  with rows and  co lumns .The s tandard  fo rmulat ion  of these  ideas  is found in the  re la t iona l  model  of Codd \[3\],in which the  tab les  a re  character i zed  as re la t ions  over  se ts  of a tomic  data  va lues .The e lements  ( rows)  of a re la t ion  are  ca l led  " tup les" ,  whi le i ts  ind iv idua l  a rgumentp laces  (co lumns)  a re  te rmed i ts  "a t t r ibutes" .
Logica l  languages  fo r  the  const ruct ion  ofquer ies ,  such  as Codd's  re la t iona l  a lgebra ,  must  make  re ference  to the  re la t ions  anda t t r ibutes  of the  database .The f i r s t  i ssue  to be faced  in cons iderat ion  of the  mapp ing  prob lem is what  e lementsof the  database  to ident i fy  with the  ob jec ts  of d i scourse  in the  u t te rance  - that  is,63with the non-logical constants 2 in the meaning representation.
In previous work \[9\] Ihave argued that these should not be the rows of the tables, as one might first think,but rather certain sets of the atomic attribute-values themselves.
I presented analgorithm which converted expressions of a predicate calculus-based meaningrepresentation language to the query language ERL, a relational algebra \[3\] extendedwith second-order operations.
The translations of non-logical constants in themeaning representation were provided by fixed and local translation rules that weresimply ERL expressions for computing the total extension of the constant in thedatabase.
The expressions so derived were then combined together in an appropriateway to yield an expression for computing the response for the entire meaningrepresentation expression.
If the algorithm encountered a non-logical constant forwhich no translation rule existed, the translation failed and the user was informed asto why the system could not answer his question.By way of illustration, consider the following relational database, consisting ofclinical history information about patients at a given hospital and of information aboutdoctors working there:PAT I ENTS (PAT I D, SEX, AGE, D I S EASE, PHYS, D I AMOTHER)DOCTORS (DOC I D. NAME.
SEX, SPECIALTY)where "PHYS" is the ID of the  t reat ing  phys ic ian,  and "DIAMOTHER" is a boo lean fieldind icat ing whether  or not  the  pat ient ' s  mother  is d iabet ic .
Here are  the ru les  for theone-p lace  pred icate  PATIENTS, the  one-p lace  pred icate  SPECIALTIES, and the two-p lace pred icate  TREATING-PHYSICIAN:PATIENTS => (PROJECT PATIENTS OVER PATID)SPECIALTIES => (PROJECT DOCTORS OVER SPECIALTY)TREATING-PHYSICIAN => (PROJECT (JOIN PATIENTSTO DOCTORSOVER PHYS DOCID)OVER PATID DOCID)Note that while no table exists for physician SPECIALTIES, we can nonetheless give arule for this predicate in way that is uniform with the rule given for the predicatePATIENTS.One advantage of such local translation rules is their simplicity.
Another advantageis that they enable us to treat database question-answering model-theoretically.
Theset-theoretic structure of the model is that which would be obtained by generatingfrom the relations of the database the much larger set of "virtual" relations that areexpressible as formulas of ERL.
The interpretation function of the model is just thetranslation function itself.
Note that it is a pczTt~aZ function because of the fact thatsome non-logical constants may not have translations.
We speak therefore of thedatabase constituting a "partially specified model" for the meaning representationlanguage.
Computation of a response to a user's request, instead of beingcharacterizable only as a procedural operation, becomes interpretation in such amodel.A similar model-theoretic approach is advocated in the work on PHLIQAi \[8\], inwhich a number  of difficulties in writing local rules are identified and overcome.
Oneclass of techniques presented there allows for quite complex and general expressions2This  term, wh i le  a s tandard one in formal log ic ,  may be confused w i th  o ther  uses of theword "constant" .
I t  s imply re fers  to the funct ion ,  p red icate  and ord inary  constant  symbols,such as "MOTHER" or "JOHN", whose denotat ions  depend on the in terpretat ion  of the language,as opposed to f i xed  symbols l i ke  "FORALL","AND", "TRUE*'.64to resu l t  f rom local  ru le  app l i ca t ion ,  to  which a post - t rans la t ion  s impl i f i cat ion processis appl ied.
Other  spec ia l -purpose  techn iques  are  also presented ,  such  as the  c reat ionof "prox ies"  to s tand  in for  e lements  of a set  for  which only the  card ina l i ty  is known.A more di f f icul t  problem, for  wh ich  these  techn iques  do not  p rov ide  a genera lt reatment ,  a r i ses  when we want  to get  at  in fo rmat ion  cor respond ing  to a complexproper ty  whose component  proper t ies  and re la t ions  are  not  themse lves  s to red .
Forexample,  suppose  the  query  "List pat ients  whose mother  was a d iabet ic" ,  isrepresented  by the  meaning representat ion :(display t (seto f  X:PATIENT(forol l Y:PERSON (->(MOTHER X Y)(DIABETIC Y)))))The in fo rmat ion  to compute  the  answer  may be found in the f ield DIAMOTHER above.
Itis very  hard  to see how we will use  loca l  ru les  to get to it, however ,  s ince noth ingconst ructab le  from the  database  cor responds  to the  non- log ica l  constants  MOTHER andDIABETIC.
The prob lem is that  the  database  chooses  to h igh l ight  the  complex  proper tyDIAMOTHER while avoid ing the  cos t  of s to r ing  its const i tuent  p red icates  MOTHER andDIABETIC - the  conceptua l  un i t s  cor respond ing  to the  words  of the  u t te rance .One way to get  a round these  d i f f i cu l t ies  is of course  to allow for  a more genera lk ind  of t rans format ion :  a "g lobal  ru le"  wh ich  would match  aga ins t  a whole syntact i cpat tern  l ike the  un ivera l ly  quant i f ied  sub-express ion  above.
The d i sadvantage  of th is ,as is po in ted  out  in \[8\], is that  the  r i chness  of both  natura l  l anguage and  logic allowsthe  same mean ing  to be expressed  in many  d i f fe rent  ways, wh ich  a complete  "g lobalru le"  would have to match.
S t r i c t ly  syntact i c  var ia t ion  is poss ib le :  p ieces  of thepat tern  may be spread  out  over  the  express ion ,  from which the  pat tern  match  wouldhave  to grab  them.
Equ iva lent  fo rmulat ions  of the query  may also use complete lyd i f fe rent  terms.
For example,  the  user  might  have employed the  equ iva lent  phrase" female parent"  in p lace  of the  word  "mother" ,  p resumably  caus ing  the  semant icin terpreta t ion  to yield a logica l  form with the  d i f fe rent  p red icates  "PARENT" and"FEM/~LE".
This would not  match  the  pat tern .
It becomes  c lear  that  the  "pat tern -match ing"  to be per fo rmed here  is not  the  l i te ra l  kind, and  that  it invo lves unspec i f iedand  arb i t ra ry  amounts  of in fe rence .The a l te rnat ive  approach  presented  by th is  paper  takes  expl ic i t  account  of the  fac tthat  cer ta in  proper t ies  and re la t ions ,  l ike "DIAMOTHER", can  be regarded  as bui l t  upf rom others .
In the next  sect ion  we will show how the proper t ies  and re la t ions  whoseextens ions  the  database  s tores  can  be ax iomat i zed  in te rms of the  ones  that  are  morebas ic  in the  app l i ca t ion  domain.
This p repares  the way for  the  s impl i f icat iont rans format ion  itself,  which will re ly  on a l imited and sound form of in fe rence  toreverse  the  ax iomat i za t ion  and t rans form the  meaning representat ion ,  where  poss ib le ,to  an express ion  that  uses  on ly  these  database  proper t ies  and re la t ions .
In th is  way,the  loca l  ru le  parad igm can  be substant ia l l y  res tored .3.
Knowledge Representation and Question-AnsweringThe purpose  o f  th is  sec t ion  of the  paper  is to p resent  a way of connect ing  themean ing  representat ion  language to  a taxonomic  knowledge representat ion  system insuch  a way that  the in fe rence-mak ing  capab i l i ty  of the la t te r  is ava i lab le  and usefu lfor  the  prob lems this  I~per  addresses .
Our approach  may be const ras ted  with that  ofo thers ,  e.g.
TEAM in which such  a taxonomy is used  mainly for  simple inher i tance  anda t tachment  dut ies .The knowledge  representat ion  sys tem used  in th is  work is NIKL \[5\].
S ince NIKL hasbeen  descr ibed  ra ther  ful ly in the  re ferences ,  I will give only  a br ie f  summary  here .
::NIKL is a taxonomic  f rame- l i ke  sys tem with two bas ic  data  s t ruc tures :  concepts  and65roles.
Concepts are just classes of entities, for which roles function somewhat  asattributes.
At any given concept we can restrict a role to be filled by some otherconcept, or place a restriction on the number  of individual "fillers" of the role there.A role has one concept as its "domain" and another as its "range": the role is arelation between the sets these two concepts denote.
Concepts are arranged in ahierarchy of sub-concepts  and superconcepts; roles are similarly arranged.
Bothconcepts and roles may associated with names.
In logical terms, a concept may beidentified as the one-place predicate with its name, and a role as the two-placepredicates with its name.I will now give the meaning postulates for a term--forming algebra, similar to the onedescribed in \[2\] in which one can write down the sort of NIKL expressions I will need.Expressions in this language are combinable to yield a complex concept or role astheir value.
(CONJ Cl - -  CN) =- (lambdo (X) (ond (C1 X) - -  (Cn X)))(VALUERESTRICT R C) =- (lambda (X) ( foral l  Y (-> (R X Y)(c ?
)))(NUMBERRESTRICT R 1 NIL) 5 (Iombdo (X) (exists Y (R X Y)))(VRDIFF R C) ~ (Iombdo (X Y) (ond (R X Y) (C Y)))(DOMAINDIFF R C) -= (Iombdo (X Y) (ond (R X Y) (C X)))The key  feature  of NIKL wh ich  we will  make  use  of is i t s  c lass i f ie r ,  wh ich  computessubsumpt ion  and  equ iva lence  re la t ions  between concepts ,  and  a l im i ted  form of th i samong ro les .
Subsumpt ion  is sound,  and  thus  ind icates  enta i lment  between terms:(SUBSUMES C1 C2) -> (forol l  X (-> (C2 X) (C1 X)))If the  c lass i f ie r  a lgor i thm is complete ,  the  reverse  is a lso  t rue ,  and  enta i lmentind icates  subsumpt ion .
In tu i t i ve ly ,  th i s  means  that  c lass i f ied  concepts  a re  pusheddown as fa r  in the  h ie rarchy  as they  can  go.Also assoc ia ted  with the  NIKL sys tem,  though not  a par t  of the  core  languagedef in i t ion ,  is a symbol  tab le  wh ich  assoc ia tes  a tomic  names  with the  ro les  or  conceptsthey  denote ,  and  concepts  and  ro les  wi th  the  names  denot ing  them.
If a concept  orro le  does  not  have  a name,  the  symbol  tab le  is ab le  to c reate  and  ins ta l l  one for  itwhen demanded.The domain  modelIn o rder  to  be ab le  to use  NIKL in the  ana lys i s  of express ions  in the  mean ingrepresentat ion  language,  we make the  fo l lowing s t ipu la t ions  for  any  use  of thelanguage in a g iven domain .
F i r s t ,  any  one-p lace  pred icate  must  name a concept ,  andany  two-p lace  pred icate  name a ro le .
Second,  any  constant ,  un less  a number  or  as t r ing ,  must  name an " ind iv idua l "  concept  - a par t i cu la r  k ind  of NIKL concept  that  isde f ined  to  have  a t  most  one member .
N -ary  funct ions  are  t reated  as a N+I  - a rypred icates .
A pred icate  of N arguments ,  where  N is g reater  than  2, is re i f ied  as  aconcept  w i th  N ro les .
This se t  of concepts  and  ro les ,  together  wi th  the  log ica lre la t ionsh ips  between them,  we ca l l  the  "domain  model" .Note  that  al l  we have  done  is to  s t ipu la te  an  one- to -one  cor respondence  betweentwo sets  of th ings  - the  concepts  and  ro les  in the  domain  model  and  the  non- log ica lconstants  of the  mean ing  representat ion  language.
If we wish to  inc lude  a new non-log ica l  constant  in the  language we must  enter  the  cor respond ing  concept  or  ro le  inthe  domain  model .
S imi lar ly ,  the  NIKL sys tem's  c reat ing  a new concept  or  ro le ,  andc reat ion  of a name in the  symbol  tab le  to  s tand  fo r  it ,  fu rn i shes  us  wi th  a new non-J0g ica l  constant .66Axiomatization of the database in terms ofthe domain modelThe t rans la t ion  ru les  presented  ear l ie r  e f fec t ive ly  seek to ax iomat ize  the  proper t iesand re la t ions  of the  domain model in te rms of those  of the  database .
This is not  theonly  way to br idge the  gap.
One might a lso t ry  the  reverse :  to ax iomat i ze  theproper t ies  and re la t ions  of the database  in te rms of those  of the  domain  model.Cons ider  the  DIAMOTHER field of our  sample database .
We can  write th is  in NIKL as theconcept  PATIENT-WITH-DIABETIC-MOTHER us ing  te rms a l ready  present  in the  domainmodel:(CONJ PATIENT(VALUERESTRICT MOTHERDIABETIC))lIf we wanted  to ax iomat ize  the  re la t ion  impl ied by the SEX at t r ibute  of the  PATIENTStab le  in our  database ,  we cou ld  read i ly  do so by def in ing the  ro le  PATIENT-SEX inte rms of the  domain model re la t ion  SEX:(DOMAINDI FF SEXPAT I ENT)These two def ined te rms can  ac tua l ly  be entered  into  the  model, and  be t reated  jus tl ike any  o thers  there .
For  example,  they  can  now appear  as pred icate  le t te rs  inmean ing  representat ions .
Moreover ,  to  the assoc ia ted  data  s t ruc ture  we can  a t tach  at rans la t ion  rule,  just  as we have been  doing with the  or ig ina l  domain model  e lements .Thus, will a t tach  to the concept  PATIENT-WITH-DIABETIC-MOTHER the ru le:(PROJECT (SELECT FROM PATIENTS WHERE (EQ DIAMOTHER "YES"))OVER PATID)The next  sect ion  will i l l us t ra te  how we map from express ions  us ing "or ig ina l "  domainmodel e lements  to the ones we c reate  for  ax iomat iz ing  the  database ,  us ing  the  NIKLsys tem and its c lassi f ier .4.
Recursive Terminological SimplificationWe now present  the ac tua l  s impl i f i cat ion method.
It is composed of two separatet rans format ions  which are appl ied one a f te r  the  o ther .
The f irst,  the  "cont rac t ionphase" ,  seeks  to cont rac t  compl i ca ted  subexpress ions  (par t i cu la r ly  nes tedquant i f i ca t ions )  to s impler one-p lace  pred icat ions ,  and  to fu r ther  res t r i c t  the  "sor ts"of remain ing  bound var iab les  on the  bas is  of the one-p lace  pred icates  so found.
Thesecond par t  of the t rans format ion ,  the  " ro le - t ighten ing"  phase,  rep laces  genera lre la t ions  in the express ion  with more  spec i f ic  re la t ions  which are lower  in the  NIKLh ie rarchy .
These more speci f ic  re la t ions  a re  obta ined  from the more genera l  bycons ider ing  the sor ts  of the  var iab les  upon  which a g iven re la t iona l  p red icat ion  ismade.The contraction phaseThe contraction phase is an algorithm with three steps, which occur sequentiallyupon application to any expression of the meaning representation.
First, thecontraction phase applies itself recursively to each non-constant subexpression of theexpression.
Second, depending upon the syntactic category of the expression, one ofthe "pre-simplification" transformations is applied to place it in a normalized form.Third and finally, one of the actual simplification transformations is used to convertthe expression to one of a simpler syntactic category.Before working through the example, I will lay out the transformations in detail.
Inwhat follows, X and XI,X2 - -  Xn are variables in the meaning representation language.The symbol "<rest>" denotes a (possibly empty) sequence of formulae.
The expression67"(FORMULA X)" denotes  a fo rmula  of the  mean ing  representat ion  language in which thevar iab le  X (and  perhaps  o thers )  appears  f ree ly .
The symbo l  "<quant>"  is to beunders tood  as be ing rep laced  by  e i ther  the  operator  SETOF or  the  quant i f ie r  EXISTS.F i rs t ,  the  normal i za t ion  t rans format ions ,  which s imply  re -ar range  the  const i tuents  ofthe  express ions  to a more  conv ienent  fo rm wi thout  chang ing  i ts  syntact i c  category :(1) (ond (P1X1) (P2 X1) - -  (PN X1)(Q1X2) (Q2 X2) - -  (QN X2)<rest>)==> (and (P' X1) (Q' X2) <rest>)where P' := (CONJ P1 P2 - -  PN)ond Q' := (CONJ Q1 Q2 - -  QN)(2) (<quant> X:S (ond (P X) <rest>) -~>(<quont> X:S' (ond <rest>))where S' := (CONJ S P)(3) (<quont> X:S (P X)) =>(<quont> X:S')where S' := (CONJ S P)(4) ( fo ra l l  X:S (-> (and (P X) <rest>)(FORMULA X)) -~>( fo ro l l  X:S' (-> (and <rest>)(FORMULA X)))In (2) and  (4) above,  the  con junct ion  or  imp l i ca t ion ,  respect ive ly ,  a re  co l lapsed  out  ifthe  sequence  <rest> is empty.Now the  ac tua l  s impl i f i cat ion  t rans format ions ,  which seek  to reduce  a complex  sub-express ion  to  a one-p lace  pred icat ion .
(5) ( fo ra l l  X2:S (-> (R X1X2) (P X2)))-~> (P' X1 )where P' := (VALUERESTRICT (VRDIFF R S) P)(6) (exists  X2:S (R X1X2)) -~> (e' X1)where P' := (VALUERESTRICT R S)and R m~st be o functionol role(7) (ex ists  X2:S (R Xl X2)) => (P' Xl)where P' := (NUMBERRESTRICT (VRDIFF R S) 1 NIL)(8) (and (P X)) ===> (P X)(9) (R X C) => (P X)where P := (VALUERESTRICT R C)and R is funct ionol ,  C on ind iv idual  conceptNow, le t  us  suppose  that  the  exerc i se  at  the  end of the  las t  sect ion  has  been  car r iedout ,  and  that  the  concept  PATIENT-WITH-DIABETIC-MOTHER has  been  c reated  and  g iventhe  appropr ia te  t rans la t ion  ru le .
To re turn  to the  query  "List  pat ients  whose  motherwas a d iabet ic " ,  we reca l l  that  it  has  the  mean ing  representat ion :(DISPLAY t(SETOF X:PATIENTS(FORALL Y:PERSON68(-> (MOTHER X Y)(DIABETIC Y)))))Upon app l i ca t ion  to the  SETOF express ion ,  the a lgor i thm f i rs t  app l ies  i tse l f  to  theinner  FORALL.
The syntact i c  pat terns  of none  of the  pre -s imp l i f i ca t iont rans format ions  (2) - (4) are  sat is f ied ,  so t rans format ion  (5) is app l ied  r ight  way toproduce  the  NIKL concept :(VALUERESTRICT (VRDIFF MOTHER PERSON)DIABETIC)This is g iven to the  NIKL c lass i f ier ,  wh ich  compares  it to o ther  concepts  a l ready  in theh ie rarchy .
Since MOTHER has  PERSON as its range  a l ready ,  (VRDIFF MOTHER PERSON) isjus t  MOTHER again.
The c lass i f ie r  thus  computes  that  the concept  spec i f ied  above is asubconcept  of PERSON - a PERSON such  that  his MOTHER was a DIABETIC.
If th is  isnot  found  to be equ iva lent  to any  pre -ex is t ing  concept ,  the  sys tem ass igns  theconcept  a new name which no o ther  concept  has,  say  PERSON- I .
The outcome of thes impl i f i cat ion  of the whole FORALL is then  jus t  the much s impler  express ion :(PERSON-1 X)The recurs ive  s impl i f icat ion of the  arguments  to the SETOF is now completed ,  and  theresu l t ing  express ion  is:(DISPLAY t(SETOF X:PATIENT(PERSON- I X)))Trans format ions  can  now be app l ied  to the SETOF express ion  i tsel f .
The pre -s impl i f i cat ion  t rans format ion  (3) is found  to apply,  and  a concept  expressed  by:(CONJ PATIENT PERSON-I)is g iven to the c lass i f ier ,  wh ich  recogn izes  it as equ iva lent  to the  a l ready  ex is t ingconcept  PATIENT-WITH-DIABETIC-MOTHER.
Since any concept  can  serve  as a sor t ,  thef inal  s impl i f icat ion is:(DISPLAY t(SETOF X:PATIENT-WITH-DIABETIC-MOTHER))This is the  very  concept  for  which we have a rule, so the ERL t rans la t ion  is:(PRINT FROM (SELECT FROM PATIENTWHERE (EQ DIAMOTHER "YES"))PATID)Suppose  now that  the  semant ic  in terpreta t ion  sys tem ass igned  a d i f fe rent  log ica lexpress ion  to represent  the  query  "List pat ients  whose mother  was a d iabet ic " ,  inwh ich  the  embedded quant i f i ca t ion  is ex i s tent ia l  ins tead  of un iversa l .
This mightac tua l ly  be more in l ine with the  number  of the embedded noun.
The mean ingrepresentat ion  would now be:(display t(setof X:PATIENT(exists Y:PERSON (and (MOTHER X Y)(DIABETIC Y)))The recurs ive  app l i ca t ion  of the  a lgor i thm proceeds  as before .
Now, however ,  the  pre -s impl i f i cat ion  t rans format ion  (2) may be appl ied to yield:(exists Y:DIABETIC (MOTHER X Y))s ince  a DIABETIC is a l ready  a PERSON.
T rans format ion  (6) can  be app l ied  if MOTHER isa " funct iona l "  role - mapping each  and  every  person  to exact ly  one mother .
This canbe checked  by ask ing the NIKL sys tem if a number  res t r i c t ion  has  been  a t tached  atthe  domain  of the role,  PERSON, spec i fy ing  that  it have  both  a minimum and a maximumof one.
If the  author  of the  domain  model  has  prov ided  th is  reasonab le  and  per fec t lyt rue  fac t  about  motherhood,  (6) can  proceed  to yield:69(PATI ENT-WITH-DIABETIC-MOTHER X)as in the preced ing  example.The role t ightening phaseThis phase  is quite simple.
After  the cont rac t ion  phase  has  been  run  on the  wholeexpress ion ,  a number  of var iab les  have  had  the i r  sor ts  changed to t ighter  ones.
Thist rans format ion  sweeps through an express ion  and changes  the  ro les  in the  express ionon that  basis .
Thus:( le )  (R X Y) ===> (R' X Y)where $1 is the sort  of Xond $2 is the sort  of Yend R' := (DOMAINDIFF (VRDIFF R $2)sl)One can  see that  a use of the  re la t ion  SEX, where the  sor t  of the  f i rs t  a rgument  isknown to be DOCTOR, can  read i ly  be conver ted  to a use the  re la t ion  DOCTOR-SEX.Back  conversion: going in the reverse direct ionThere will be t imes when the  s impl i f icat ion t rans format ion  will "overshoot" ,  c reat ingand us ing  new pred icate  le t te rs  which have not  been  seen  be fore  by c lass i fy ing newdata  s t ruc tures  into the  model  to  cor respond to them.
The use  of such  a newpred icate  le t te r  can  then  be t reated  exact ly  as would its equ iva lent  lambda-def in i t ion ,which we can  read i ly  obta in  by consu l t ing  the  NIKL model.
For  example,  a query  aboutthe  sexes  of leukemia vict ims may a f te r  s impl i f icat ion resu l t  in a ra ther  s t range  rolebe ing c reated  and entered  into  the  h ie rarchy :PATIENT-SEX-I := (DOMAINDIFF PATIENT-SEX LEUKEMIA-PATIENT)This ro le is a d i rec t  descendant  of PATIENT-SEX; its name is sys tem generated .
By themean ing-postu la te  of DOMAINDIFF g iven in sect ion  3 above,  it can  be rewr i t ten  as thefol lowing lambda-abst rac t :(Iornbdo (X Y) (and (PATIENT-SEX X Y)(LEUKEMIA-PATI ENT X) ) )For  PATIENT-SEX we of course  have  a t rans la t ion  rule as d i scussed  in sect ion  2.
Aru le  for  LEUKEMIA-PATIENT can  be imagined as involv ing the DISEASE field of thePATIENTS table.
At th is  po in t  we can  simply call the t rans la t ion  a lgor i thm recurs ive ly ,and  it will come up with a t rans la t ion :(PROJECT (SELECT FROM PATIENTSWHERE (EQ DISEASE "LEUK"))OVER PATID SEX)This supp l ies  us with the  needed rule.
As a bonus,  we can  avoid hav ing  to recomputeit l a te r  by simply a t tach ing  it to the ro le in the normal  way.
The similar computat ionof ru les  for  complex concepts  and  ro les  which are a l ready  in the  domain comes forf ree.5.
Conclusions, Implementation Status and FurtherWorkAs of th is  writ ing,  we have incorporated  NIKL into the  imp lementat ion  of our  natura ll anguage quest ion -answer ing  system,  IRUS.
NIKL is used  to represent  the  knowledge ina Navy bat t le -management  domain.
The s impl i f icat ion t rans format ion  descr ibed  in th ispaper  has  been  implemented in th is  combined  system, and  the  ax iomat i za t ion  of the.database  as descr ibed  above is be ing added to the domain  model.
At that  po int ,  the70methodo logy  will be tes ted  as a so lu t ion  to the  d i f f icu l t ies  now being exper ienced  bythose  t ry ing  to wri te the  t rans la t ion  ru les  for  the  complex database  and domain of theF leet  Command Center  .Battle Management  P rogram of DARPA's S t ra teg ic  Comput ingProgram.I have presented  a l imited in fe rence  method  on pred icate  ca lcu lus  express ions ,  whosein tent  is to  p lace them in a canon ica l  form that  makes  o ther  in fe rences  eas ie r  tomake.
Metaphor ica l ly ,  it can  be regarded  as "s ink ing"  the  express ion  lower in acer ta in  logical  space.
The goal is to  push  it down to the  " level"  of the  databasepred icates ,  or  below.
We cannot  guarantee  that  we will a lways p lace  the  express ion  aslow as it cou ld  poss ib ly  go - that  prob lem is undec idab le .
But we can  go a goodd i s tance ,  and  th is  by  i tsel f  is very  use fu l  for  res tor ing  the  t rac tab i l i ty  of the  mapp ingt rans format ion  and o ther  sor ts  of deduct ive  operat ions  \[10\].Somewhat  s imi lar s impl i f icat ions a re  per fo rmed in the  work  on ARGON \[6\], but  for  ad i f fe rent  purpose .
There  the  database  is assumed to be a full, ra ther  than  a par t ia l l yspec i f ied,  mode l  and  s impl i f i cat ions  are  per fo rmed on ly  to ga in  an inc rease  inef f ic iency.
The d i s t ingu ish ing  feature  of the  present  work  is i ts  operat ion  on anexpress ion  in a logical  l anguage for  Engl ish mean ing  representat ion ,  ra ther  than  forres t r i c ted  quer ies .
A database ,  g iven the purposes  for  which it is des igned,  cannotconst i tu te  a full model for  such  a language.
Thus, the  te rmino log ica l  s impl i f i cat ion isneeded to reduce  the  logical  express ion ,  when poss ib le ,  to  an express ion  in a "sub-language"  of the f i rs t  for  which the  database  i s  a full model.An importar~t outcome of th is  work  is the perspect ive  it g ives on knowledgerepresentat ion  sys tems like NIKL.
It shows how workers  in o ther  f ields, whilema inta in ing  o ther  logical  sys tems as the i r  p r imary  mode of representat ion ,  can  usethese  sys tems in p ract i ca l  ways.
Cer ta in ly  NIKL and NIKL- l ike sys tems cou ld  never  beused  as full meaning representat ions  - they  don ' t  have  enough express ive  power,  andwere never  meant  to.
This does not  mean we have to d i s regard  them, however .
Ther ight  perspect ive  is to view them as a t tached  in fe rence  eng ines  to per fo rm l imitedtasks  hav ing  to do with the i r  spec ia l ty  - the  re la t ionsh ips  between the var iousproper t ies  and re la t ions  that  make up a sub jec t  domain in the rea l  world.AcknowledgementsF i rs t  and  foremost ,  I must  thank  Remko Scha,  both  for  va luab le  and s t imu la t ingtechn ica l  d i scuss ions  as well as for  pat ient  ed i to r ia l  cr i t ic ism.
This paper  has  alsobenef i ted  from the comments  of Ralph Weischedel  and  Jos De Bruin.
Beth  Groundwaterof SAIC was pat ient  enough to use  the  so f tware  th is  work  produced .
I would l ike tothank  them, and thank  as well the  o ther  members  of the  IRUS pro jec t  - Damar isAyuso,  Lance Ramshaw and Varda Shaked - for  the  many p leasant  and product ivein teract ions  I have had  with them.71\[1\]\[z\]\[3\]\[4\]\[5\]\[8\]\[7\]\[8\]\[9\]\[10\]ReferencesBates, Madeleine and Bobrow, Robert J.A Transportable Natural Language Interface for Information Retrieval.In Proceedings of the 6th Annual International ACM SIGIR Cortference.
ACMSpecial Interest Group on Information Retrieval and American Society forInformation Science, Washington, D.C., June, 1983.Brachman, R.J., Fikes, R.E., and Levesque, H.J.Krypton: A Functional Approach to Knowledge Representation.IEEE Computer, Special Issue on Knowledge Representat ion , October,  1983.Codd,E.F.A Relational Model of Data for Large Shared Data Banks.CACM 13(6), June, 1970.Barbara Grosz, Douglas E. Appelt, Paul Martin, and Fernando Pereira.TEAM: An Experiment in the Design of Transportable Natura l -LanguageInterfaces.Technical Report 356, SRI International, Menlo Park, CA, August, 1985.Moser, Margaret.An Overview of NIKL.Technical Report Section of BBN Report No.
5421, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.,1983.Patel-Schneider, P.F., H.J.
Levesque, and R.J. Brachman.ARGON: Knowledge Representation meets Information Retrieveal.In Proceedings of The First Con\[erence on Arti\[icial Intell igence Applications.IEEE Computer Society, Denver, Colorado, December,  1984.W.J.H.J.
Bronnenberg,  H.C. Bunt, S.P.J.
Landsbergen,  R.J.H.
Scha, W.J.Schoenmakers  and E.P.C.
van Utteren.The Question Answering System PHLIQAi.In L. Bolc (editor) ,  Natural Language Question Answering Systems.
Macmillan,1980.Scha, Remko J.H.English Words and Data Bases: How to Bridge the Gap.In 20th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,Toronto.
Associat ion for  Computat ional  Linguistics, June, 1982.Stal lard, David G.Data Modeling for Natura l  Language Access.In Proceedings of the First IEEE Conference on Applied Artif icial Intelligence,Denver, Colorado.
IEEE, December, 1984.Stal lard, David G.Taxonomic In ference on Pred icate  Calculus Express ions.Submitted to AAAI April 1, 1988.72
