T I IE  ROLE OF  PERSPECT IVEIN RESPONDING TO PROPERTYMISCONCEPT IONS?
MS-CIS-85-31May 1085Kathleen F. McCoyDepartment of Computer & Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104This work is partially supported by the ARO grant DAA20-84-K-0061 and by the NSFgrant #MCS81-07290.This paper appears in The Proceedings of IJCAI-85, August 18-23, 1985, University ofCalifornia, Los Angeles, Ca.190AbstractIn order to adequately respond to misconceptions involving an object's properties,we must have a context-sensitive method for determining object similarity.
Such amethod is introduced here.
Some of the necessary contextual information is captured bya new notion of object perspective.
It is shown how object perspective can be used toaccount for different responses to a given misconception i  different contexts.1911.
In t roduct ionAs a user interacts with a database or an expert system, s/he may attribute aproperty or property value to an object that that object does not have.
For instance,imagine the following query to a database.U.
Give me the HULL-NO of all DESTROYERS whose MAST-HEIGHT is above190.If a system were to evaluate such a query, it might find that there are no such ships inthe database.
The reason for this is that the user has queried a value of the propertyMAST-HEIGHT that it cannot have for the object DESTROYER.
I term this error aproperty misconception.
Upon encountering such a query, even a very cooperativesystem could only respond:S. There are no DESTROYERS in the database with a MAST-HEIGHT above190.
Would you like to try again?In most cases, however, this is not the way a human would respond.
A study ofhuman/human transcripts reveals that a human conversational partner often tries to getat the cause of the misconception and offer additional information to correct the wronginformation.
The additional information often takes the form of a correct query that is apossible alternative to the user's query.
In this paper I describe some of the knowledgeand reasoning that are necessary for a natural anguage interface to a database or  expertsystem to mimic this human behavior.In the above query, since there is an object similar to a DESTROYER that has thevalue of HULL-NO given, the user's misconception may result from his/her confusing thetwo objects.
Hence a reasonable response would be:S. All DESTROYERS in the database have a MAST-HEIGHT between 85 and90.
Were you thinking of an AIRCRAFT-CARRIER?Notice the strategy used to correct the misconception is to (1) deny (implicitly) theproperty/value given, (2} give the corresponding correct information, (3) suggest analternative query containing the object the user may have confused with themisconception object.In other situations, a reasonable alternative query might involve the same objectthe user asked about, with a different property/value pair.
This is the case in thefollowing query.U.
Give me the HULL-NO of all DESTROYERS whose MAST-HEIGHT is above3500.192S.
All DESTROYERS in the database have a MAST-HEIGHT between 85 and90.
Were you thinking of the DISPLACEMENT?This response is similar to the one given above except hat the alternative query suggestsan attribute rather than an object which may have been confused.In general, there can be two major reasons why a wrong attribution may occur.Either (1) the user has the wrong object - that is, s/he has confused the object beingdiscussed with a similar object or has reasoned (falsely) by analogy from a similar object;or (2) the user has the wrong attribute - that is, s/he has confused the attribute beingdiscussed with a similar attribute.
If one of these two can be seen as likely in a givensituation, then a revised query can be suggested which mentions the similar object or thesimilar attribute.To propose alternative queries, a system must have a method for determiningsimilarity of objects and attributes.
In this paper I will focus on responses involvingobject confusion; thus I will examine a similarity metric for objects.
In the next sectionsuch a similarity metric is introduced.
The following section introduces a new notion ofobject perspective which is needed to provide the similarity metric with some necessarycontextual information, in particular, attribute salience ratings.
Finally, an example ofhow perspective information and the similarity metric can be used to give reasonableresponses to misconceptions involving object properties i  given.2.
Ob ject  S imi la r i tyAs was shown above, in order to respond effectively to property misconceptions, wemust have a method for determining object similarity.
Object similarity has previouslybeen shown to be important in tasks such as organizing explanations \[6\], offeringcooperative responses to pragmatically ill-formed queries \[2\], and identifying metaphors\[9\].
In the above systems the similarity of two objects is based on the distance betweenthe objects in the generalization hierarchy.
One problem with this approach is that it iscontext invariant.
* That is, there is no way for contextual information to affectsimilarity judgments.However, Tversky \[8\] proposes a measure of object similarity based on commonand disjoint features/properties of the objects involved, which enables contextual*See \[5\] for additional problems and discussion of this point.193information to be taken into account.
Tversky's imilarity rating for two objects a andb, where A is the set of properties associated with object a and B is the set of propertiesassociated with object b, can be expressed as:B(a ,b )  = Of CA CI B) - a f (A  - B) - ~(B  - A)for some 0, ~, ~ )~ 0.
This equation actually defines a family of similarity scales where0, a, and ~ are parameters which alter the importance of each piece of the equation, andf maps over the features and yields a salience rating for each.
The equation states thatthe similarity of two objects is some function of their common features minus somefunction of their disjoint features.
The importance of each feature involved (determinedby the function f) and the importance of each piece of the equation (determined by 0, a,and ~) may change with context.Previous work \[4, 7\] has discussed the effect of ?focus" on the prominence ofobjects.
Focusing algorithms can be adapted to set the values of 0, a, and ~.
Forinstance, if object a is "in focus" and object b is not, then the features of a should beweighted more heavily than the features of b.
Thus we should choose a ~ ~ so that thesimilarity is reduced more by features of a that are not shared by b than vice versa.The problem then is to determine f. Other work \[3, 9\] has hand encoded saliencevalues for the attributes of individual objects in the knowledge base, effectively settingthe f function once and for all.
This approach, however, is not sufficient since saliencevalues must change with context.
The following examples in which two objects(Treasury Bills and Money Market Certificates) are compared in two differentcircumstances, illustrate the importance of context on the similarity rating.Consider someone calling an expert financial advisor to see if she can better investher money.
She begins by telling the expert where her money is:U.
We have $40,000 in money market certificates.
One is coming due next weekfor $10,000...
I was wondering if you think this is a good savings...E.VoE.Well, I'd like to see you hold that $10,000 coming due in a money marketfund and then get into a longer term money market certificate.l-lm.., well I was just wondering, what about a treasury bill instead?That's not a bad idea but it doesn't replace your money market certificate inany way - it's an exact duplicate.
They're almost identical types ofinstruments - so one, as far as _l'm concerned, is about the same as another.Now consider how the same two objects can be seen quite differently when viewed194in a different way.
Imagine the following conversation:U. I am interested in buying some US Government Securities.
Now I wasthinking of Money Market Certificates since they are the same as TreasureBills.E.
But they're not - they are two very different hings.
A Treasury Bill isbacked by the U.S. Government: you have to get it from the federal reserve.A Money Market Certificate, on the other hand, is backed by the individualbank that issues it.
So, one is a Government Security while the other is not.In the first example the objects are viewed as savings instruments.
This viewhighlights attributes uch as interest-rates and maturity-dates that are common toTreasury Bills and Money Market Certificates.
This highlighting causes the twoinstruments o be seen as "identical'.
In contrast, the second example views the objectsas instruments i sued by a particular company or organization.
In this case attributessuch as issuing-company and purchase-place are highlighted.
Since these highlightedattributes are different for the two objects, the objects are seen as being quite different.As the examples illustrate, a context-free metric of similarity is not sufficient;contextual information is needed.
A notion of object perspective, introduced below, cancapture the needed contextual information.
In particular, perspective accounts for howthe f function (the assignment of salience values to various attributes) changes withcontext.3.
Perspect ive\[4, 1\] note that the same object may be viewed from different perspectives.
Forinstance a particular building may be viewed as an architectural work, a home, a thingmade with bricks, etc.
According to this work, an object viewed from a particularperspective is seen as having one particular superordinate, although in fact it may havemany superordinates.
The object inherits properties only from the superordinate inperspective.
Therefore different perspectives on the same object cause differentproperties to be highlighted.Although this notion of perspective is intuitively appealing, in practice its use israther difficult since it hinges on the use of a limited inheritance mechanism.
Theproblem is that attributes may be inherited from the top of the generalization hierarchy,not just from immediate superordinates.
So, an object's perspective involves not just onesuperordinate but a chain of superordinates.
Therefore one must not only determinewhat perspective a particular object is being viewed from, but also what perspective its195superordinate is viewed from, and so on.
As one continues up the hierarchy in thisfashion, the definition of perspective as viewing an object as a member of a particularsuperordinate becomes less and less appealing.In addition, this notion of object perspective says nothing about the density of thegeneralization hierarchy.
That is, in some situations the immediate superordinate of anobject (and the properties it contributes} may be ignored.
For example, even though awhale is a cetacean (a class of aquatic mammals including whales and porpoises}, thisclassification (and all attributes contributed by the classification} may be ignored in somesituations in which the important attributes instead are inherited from a superordinate ofcetacean, say, mammal.
In other situations, the class ?cetacean ?
may be central.
Thenotion of object perspective outlined above has no way of determining whether or notcertain superordinates should be ignored or included.Here I introduce a new notion of perspective which is able to handle both theassignment of differing salience values and the density problem.
In this notion,perspectives sit orthogonal to the generalization hierarchy.
Each comprises a set ofproperties and their salience values.
A number of perspectives must be defined a priorifor the objects in a particular domain.
The specification of perspectives, just like thespecification of an object taxonomy, must be done by a domain expert.
Knowledge ofuseful perspectives in a domain then, is part of the domain expertise.With this new notion of perspective, when an object is viewed through a particularperspective, the perspective essentially acts as a filter on the properties .which that objectinherits from its superordinates.
That is, properties are inherited with the saliencevalues given by the perspective.
Thus properties of the object which are given a highsalience rating by the perspective will be highlighted, while those which are given a lowsalience value or do not appear in the perspective will be suppressed.
The densityrroblem is handled by ignoring those superordinate concepts which contribute only~,.
ibutes uppressed by the current perspective.4.
Using Perspective to Determine ResponsesPerspective information can be used with Tversky's imilarity metric to helpdetermine alternative queries to a query containing a misconception.
To see how thisworks, consider a domain containing the following three objects with the attributesshown:196Money Market CertificatesMaturity: 3 monthsDenominations: $1,000Issuer: Commercial BankPenalty for Early Withdrawal: 10%Purchase Place: Commercial BankSafety: MediumTreasury BillsMaturity: 3 monthsDenominations: 81,000Issuer: US GovernmentPurchase Place: Federal ReserveSafety: HighTreasuryBondMaturity: 7 yearsDenominations: $500Issuer: US GovernmentPenalty for Early Withdrawal: 20%Purchase Place: Federal ReserveSafety: Highand the following perspectives:Savings InstrumentsMatur i ty-  highDenominations- highSafety-  mediumIssuing CompanyIssuer- highSafety - highPurchase Place - mediumNotice that the perspective of Savings Instruments highlights Maturity andDenominations, and somewhat highlights Safety.
This indicates that when people arediscussing securities as savings instruments, they are most interested in how long theirmoney will be tied up and in what denominations they can save their money.
Theperspective of Issuing Company, on the other hand, highlights different attributes.When securities are discussed from this perspective, things like who the issuer of thesecurity is and how safe a security issued from that company is, become important.Suppose the perspective is Savings Instruments and the user says:197U.
What is the penalty for early withdrawal on a Treasury Bill?This query indicates that the user has a misconception since s/he has attributed aproperty to Treasury Bills that they do not have.
One reasonable correction to thequery would contain an alternative query which to replaces Treasury Bills with anotherobject that has the property specified and is similar to Treasury Bills.
The system mayreason that both Money Market Certificates and Treasury Bonds have the penaltyspecified, and so check to see if either of these objects is similar to Treasury Bills.Notice that the Savings Instruments perspective highlights attributes common toTreasury Bills and Money Market Certificates (they have the same Maturity andDenominations), aswell as attributes disjoint to Treasury Bills and Treasury Bonds (theyhave different Maturity and Denominations).
Using these salience values, the similaritymetric will find that Money Market Certificates are very similar to Treasury Bills whileTreasury Bonds are very different.
Thus Money Market Certificates will be deemed aprobable object of confusion and the following correction may be offered:S. Treasury Bills do not have a penalty for early withdrawal.
Were you thinkingof a Money Market Certificate?Notice that if the perspective had instead been Issuing Company, which highlightsattributes common to Treasury Bills and Treasury Bonds and disjoint to Treasury Billsand Money Market Certificates, the most reasonable response would be:S. Treasury Bills do not have a penalty for early withdrawal.
Were you thinkingof a Treasury Bond?Selecting the appropriate perspective is in itself a difficult question which iscurrently under investigation and will be reported in \[5\].
Certainly important in theselection procedure will be the attributes that have entered into the conversation so far:these attributes hould be of fairly high salience in the selected perspective.
Other cluesto the selection process include the objects under discussion, the superordinates whichcontribute the attributes under discussion to these objects, and the current goals of theUSer,5.
Conc lus ionIn this paper we have seen that a context-dependent similarity metric is needed inorder to respond adequately to misconceptions involving the properties of an object.Such a metric has been suggested and a notion of perspective has been introduced toaccount for some of the contextual information required by the metric.
These notionshave been shown to account for differences in the way a particular misconception is best198corrected in two different circumstances.6.
AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Julia Hirschberg, Aravind Joshi, Martha Pollack, EthelSchuster, and Bonnie Webber for their many comments and discussions concerning thedirection of this research and the content and style of this paper.7.
References\[1\] Bobrow, D. G. and Winograd, T. SAn Overview of KRL, a KnowledgeRepresentation Language."
Cognitive Science 1, 1 (January 1977), 3-46.\[2\] Carberry, Sandra M. Understanding Pragmatically Ill-Formed Input.
10thInternational Conference on Computational Linguistics & 22nd Annual Meeting of theAssociation of Computational Linguistics, Coling84, Stanford University, Ca., July, 1984,pp.
200-206.\[3\] Carbonnell, Jaime R. & Collins, Allan M. Mixed-Initiative Systems For Training andDecision-Aid Applications.
Tech.
Rept.
ESD-TR-70-373, Electronics Systems Division,Laurence G. Hanscom Field, US Air Force, Bedford, Ma., November, 1970.\[4\] Grosz, B.
Focusing and Description in Natural Language Dialogues.
In Elements ofDiscourse Understanding, A. Joshi, B. Webber & I.
Sag, Ed.,Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, England, 1981, pp.
85-105.\[5\] McCoy, K.F.
Correcting Object-Related Misconceptions.
1985.
ForthcomingUniversity of Pennsylvania doctoral thesis\[6\] McKeown, K. .
Generating Natural Language Text in Response to QuestionsAbout Database Structure.
Ph.D.
Th., University of Pennsylvania, May 1982.\[7\] Sidner, C. L. Focusing in the Comprehension f Definite Anaphora.
InComputational Models of Discourse, Michael Brady and Robert Berwick, Ed.,MITPress, Cambridge, Ma, 1983, pp.
267-330.\[8\] Tversky, A.
"Features of Similarity.
= Psychological Review 84 (1977), 327-352.\[9\] Weiner, E. Judith.
"A Knowledge Representation Approach to UnderstandingMetaphors."
Computational Linguistics 19, 1 (January- March 1984), 1-14.199
