Hypotheticals as Heuristic DeviceEdwina L. Rissland and Kevin D. AshleyDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of MassachusettsAmherst, MA 01003AbstractIn this paper we examine the use of hypotheticals as a heuristic device to assist acase-based reasoner test the strengths, weaknesses, and ramifications of an analysis orargument by exploring and augmenting the space of known cases and indirectly, theattendant spaces of doctrine and argument.
Our program, HYPO, works in the taskdomain of the law, particularly, the area of trade secret protection for software.
Wedescribe how HYPO generates a constellation of legally-meaningful hypothetical factsituations ("hypos") which are "near" a given fact situation.
This is done in twosteps: analysis of the given situation and then generation of the hypos.
We discussthe heuristics HYPO currently uses, which include: (1) make a case weaker orstronger; (2) generate an extreme case; (3) generate a near miss; (4) manipulate anear win; and (5) generate a case on a related "dimension".I.
IntroductionHYPO is a program to model reasoning with cases and hypotheticals ("hypos").
The programcomprises a means of representing and indexing cases in a Case Knowledge Base ("CKB"), acomputational definition of relevance in terms of "dimensions" which capture the utility of acase for making a particular kind of argument, a dimension-based method for comparing cases,and methods for generating hypotheticals to help an arguer formulate an argument, gatherrelevant facts, and explain his argument.
HYPO's domain is legal argument where, asillustrated below with examples of oral arguments before the Supreme Court,-cases andhypotheticals are primary tools.In this paper, we concentrate on HYPO's creation of hypothetical new cases to accomplish suchtasks as: (1) test the sensitivity of one's argument o absence or presence of certain facts; (2)locate and explore subspaces of relevant cases in the CKB; (3) augment and "flesh out" sparseareas of the CKB; (4) sample the space of implications of a given argument; (5) formulaterefinements and refutations of an argument.
Thus, we are using hypotheticais as a heuristicdevice to explore several "spaces" --  the CKB itself, and the spaces of legal doctrine andargument --  and to acquire new case knowledge.
HYPO generates these hypotheticalsheuristically using certain well-known general heuristics (e.g., examine extreme cases) as well asHYPO-specific ones (e.g., examine weaker/stronger cases along a HYPO dimension).While HYPO is a program whose primary task domain is legal argument, the lessons learnedfrom HYPO should prove useful for other case-oriented tasks like strategic planning andlearning by experimentation.
The posing and manipulating of hypotheticals is important instrategic planning where one must examine a proposed plan in light of telling what i f s  - -  alltoo often the advocate of a plan only tells of its good points and and a devil's advocate isneeded to unmask its weaknesses.
In learning, some of the questions concerning how tointel l igent ly select examples as training instances have a large overlap with our concerns here.1This work supported in part by the Advanced Research Projects Agency of the Department of Defense andmonitored by the Office of Naval Research under contract no.
N00014-84-K-0017165In case-based systems, one ,cannot afford to wait passively for the "right" case to come alongbefore grappling with a potential problem; one must create cases to reason in anticipation.
Sotoo in learning systems, one (i.e., the problem generator) must select or generate cases to drivethe learning system.
The heuristics we discuss here are the subject of another on-going projectof ours on intelligent example selection for rule-learning systems like Buchanan and Fu's RL\[1985\].Before going into details, we must mention that in the law there is a distinction between "real"and "hypothetical" cases.
A real case is a case that has been litigated and decided; a hypo hasnot (even though it might be a very slight variation of one that has, or foretells of cases in theprocess of coming to light or just "waiting to happen") \[Rissland, 1985\].
Real cases are thebasis of our Anglo-American legal system which reasons according to the standard ofprecedent, or stare decisis, which means roughly that like cases should be decided similarly andthat one gives support for a legal outcome by citing other similar cases which share the desiredconclusion and by distinguishing those that do not \[Levi, 1949\].
Of course, what counts as"similarity" is often up for grabs and one can apply the idea of precedent "loosely" allowingbroad matches and interpretations or "strictly" allowing only narrow ones \[Llewellyn, 1930,1933\].
Legal concepts are "open-textured", that is, they cannot be defined in a purely logicalway with necessary and sufficient conditions \[Hart, 1961; Gardner, 1984\].
Further the meaningof concepts (and rules) changes over time, and, in fact, the law can be viewed as a systemwhich learns (in a LEX-like manner) from the cases presented to it \[Rissland & Collins,1986\] .These observations apply mostly to "common law" systems, like our own, which reason in acase-based manner.
Others, such as the Continental systems (e.g., German or French) relymostly on rules and to a much lesser degree on cases.
However, even in the most rule-likelegal orientations, like statute law, one must rely on cases since rarely is a statute so well-defined as to leave no room for ambiguity or interpretation \[Levi, 1949\].Note, there are two situations where hypotheticals may actually be preferred over real cases:(1) law school teaching; and (2) aspects of litigation.
In law school, hypos are used (sometimesunmercifully) to ferret out unspoken assumptions and prejudices of students, to focus attentionon subtle or troublesome points, and to exercise the student's argumentative powers \[Gewirtz,1981; Rissland, 1984\].
In litigation, hypos are used primarily at two points: (a) preparationand "debugging" of an argument in the way a strategic planner "dry runs" his plan, and (b) inoral argument, in oral argument, the hypos usually come from the judges trying to probe anadvocate's position and the ramifications of it; once in a while, when a hypo is particularlystrong or compelling an advocate might recite a hypo in support of his position, or he mightpresent a "counter-example" hypo to refute or limit his opponent's position \[Prettyman, 1975;Rissland, in press\].Our model of legal reasoning is based on actual verbatim data from experts, namely theJustices of the United States Supreme Court, on legal jurisprudential scholarship, and onscholarly analysis in legal journals.
We have also gathered and analyzed interchanges from lawschool classes (at Harvard Law School) \[Rissland, 1983\], and interviews with a few of our ownexperts on software trade secret law \[Werner, Ashley & Stucky, 1986\].2.
Examples from Supreme Court Oral ArgumentsThe uses that attorneys and judges make of cases and hypotheticals as tools in argument areillustrated in the oral arguments before the United States Supreme Court.
To the chagrin ofcounsel before the bar of the Supreme Court, the Justices frequently interrupt an attorney'spresentation to pose hypotheticals.
For example, in Lynch v. Donnelly, 104 S. Ct. 1355 (1984),a case involving the constitutionality of a Christmas creche display of a city on municipalland, the Justices posed the following hypotheticals:166To the attorney for the City:Q: Do you think ... that a city should display a nativity scene alone without otherdisplays such as Santa Claus and Christmas trees...?Q: \[C\]ould the city display a cross for the celebration of Easter, under your view?To the attorney opposing the display:Q: \[S\]supposing the creche were just one ornament on the Christmas tree and youcould hardly see it unless you looked very closely, would that be illegal?Q: What if they had three wiseman and a star in one exhibit, say?
Would that beenough?
... What if you had an exhibit that had not the creche itself, but just threecamels out in the desert and a star up in the sky?Q: Well, the city could not display religious paintings or artifacts in its museumunder your theory.Q: There is nothing self-explanatory about a creche to somebody ... who has neverbeen exposed to the Christian religion..Q: Would the display up on the frieze in this courtroom of the TenCommandments be unconstitutional then, in your view?Q:  Several years ago ... there was a ceremony held on the Mall, which is federalproperty of course .
.
.
.
\[T\]here were 200,000 or 300,000 people ... and the ceremonywas presided over by Pope John Paul II.
Would you say that was a step, towards anestablishment of religion violative of the religion clauses?
... Then you think itwould be alright to put a creche over on the Mall?
... How do you distinguish a highmass from a creche?
... \[T\]here was a considerable involvement of government inthat ceremony, hundreds of extra policeman on duty, streets closed... That was aconsiderable governmental involvement, was it not?SUP, Lynch v. Donnelly, Case No.
82-1256, Fiche No.
5In the above questions, one can see the Justices modifying the fact situation along variousdimensions:location, size, and focus of displayreligious content of the display,nature of the viewer,degree of government involvementSometimes the purpose of the modifications (and thus the derivative hypos) is to compare thefact situation to actual cases previously decided by the Court to test whether the current casepresents stronger or weaker facts.
2 Or a hypothetical case, like the Mall example, may besignificant because it did not give rise to litigation.Frequently, the Justices use hypotheticals to apply pressure to the rule proposed by an attorneyfor deciding the case.
That can be seen in the Mall example above and in the followingexample from New Jersey v. T.L.O, 105 S.Ct.
733 (1985), a case involving the consitutionalityof a high school principal's search of a female student's handbag for cigarettes after a teacherreported that she had been smoking in the girls' room.
A Justice asked:Q: Do you think then that a male teacher could conduct a pat-down search of ayoung women at age sixteen to find the cigarettes?In response, the attorney for the state took the position that the Fourth Amendment, which2See e.g., Stone v. Graham, 449 U.S. 39 (1980): Posting copies of Ten Commandments in schools heldunconstitutional; Gilfillan v. City of Philadelphia, 637 F. 2d 924 (CA3, 1980): City-financed platform and cross usedby Pope John Paul II to celebrate public mass held unconstitutional; McCreary v. Stone, 575 F.Supp.
I l l2  (SDNY1983): Not unconstitutional for village not to refuse permit to private group to erect creche in public park.167prohibits unreasonable searches by law enforcement authorities, does not apply to high schooladministrators.
The Justice rejoined:Q: And does that mean that their authority then to make searches, if the FourthAmendment is completely inapplicable, extends to any kind of search, strip search orotherwise?SUP, New Jersey v. T.L.O, 1984 Term, Fiche No.
5In this T.L.O.
example, the Justices have posed a short but typical "slippery slope" sequence ofhypos, where each hypo is successively more extreme than its predecessor, and the culminating"reductio" case (of strip search) is dearly undesireable and suggests refutation of the attorney'sposition.Another slippery slope --  this time involving the numerical range of a variable - -  can be seenin the following exchange from oral argument from Sony Corp. v. Universal City Studios, 464U.S.
417 (1984).
The attorney was advocating the position that if Sony sold video recorderswhile knowing that consumers would use them to copy copyrighted materials, then Sony shouldbe legally responsible to the owners of the copyrights:Q: Suppose ... that about 10 percent of all programming could be copied withoutinterference by the producer or whoever owned the program...A: \[ don't think that would make any difference.
!
think 10% is too small of  anamount .Q: Well, what about 50?The attorney then asserted even if there were only one television program that was copyrighted,if Sony knew the program would be copied, it should be legally responsible.
Finally, the Justiceasked:Q: Under your test, supposing somebody tells the Xerox people that there arepeople who are making illegal copies with their machine and they know it .... Xeroxis a contributory infringer?A: To be consistent, Your Honor, I'd have to say yes.Q: A rather extreme position.SUP, Sony Corp v. Universal City Studios, Case No.
81-1687, Fiche No.
2In these last two questions, although the altered fact situations posed by the Justice are stillcovered by the proposed rule, it is progressively harder for the attorney to justify his positionbecause the hypotheticals present progressively weaker facts; the Justice has "stacked" thehypothetical with extreme facts.
The attorney to keep his argument alive must distinguish thecurrent Sony situation and the hypos, indeed, the attorney failed.
The Court held for Sony onthe ground that the Betamax was capable of substantial noninfringing use because so manyprograms were not subject to copyright restrictions, 464 U.S. 417, 456.To summarize, the above example illustrate how cases, especially hypotheticals, are used:To present, support and attack positions (e.g., by testing the consequences of atentative conclusion, pressing an assertion to its limits, and exploring the meaningof a concept);?
To relate a fact situtation to significant past cases;?
To augment an existing case base with meaningful test or training cases;?
To factor a complex situation into component parts (e.g., by exagerating strengths,weaknesses or eliminating features);?
To control the course of argument (e.g., by focussing discussion on particular issues)168Such observations translate into our heuristics for using hypotheticals which we discuss after wepresent some background on the workings of HYPO.3.
Background on HYPO: Some definitions.For the purposes of this research, cases are disputes between parties tried by a court, whosedecisions are reported in published opinions.
The opinion sets forth the facts of the case, theclaims made by one party against the other, and the court's holding.
Facts are statements aboutevents associated with the dispute that were proved at trial or which the court assumed to betrue.
A claim is a recognized kind of complaint for which the courts will grant relief (e.g.,breach of contract, negligence, trade secrets misappropriation, copyright infringement).
Theelements of a claim are generalized statements of what facts must be proven in order toprevail on the claim (e.g., the three elements for the existence of a trade secret: "novelty,secrecy, and value in the trade or business of the putative trade secret owner" \[Gi lburne &Johnson, 1982, p. 215\]).
The holding is the decision of the court as to the legal effect on eachclaim of the facts of the case, either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant.In HYPO, cases are represented by a hierarchical cluster of frames (flavor instances) with slotsfor relevant features (plaintiff, defendant, claim, facts, etc.).
Some features are in turnexpanded and represented as frames (e.g., plaintiff) \[Rissland, Valcarce, & Ashley, 1984\].
Thelibrary of cases is called the Case Knowledge Base (CKB).
HYPO's current CKB contains adozen Or so of the leading cases for trade secret law for software.
See the Appendix Table 1for a partial list of cases and a very brief indication of their content.Besides the CKB and the understanding of the legal domain that this case representationimplicitly contains, the other major source of domain-specif ic legal knowledge is in HYPO'sdimensions.
Dimensions capture the notion of legal relevance of a cluster of facts to themerits of a claim: that is, for a particular kind of case, what collections of facts representstrengths and weaknesses in a party's position.
The short answer is that facts are relevant to aclaim if there is a court that decided such a claim in a real case and expressly noted thepresence or absence of such facts in its opinion.
Examples of dimensions in HYPO's area ofsoftware trade secret law are: Secrets-voluntarily-disclosed, Disclosure-subject-to-restriction,Competitive-advantage-gained, Vertical-knowledge.Each dimension has several facets:1.
C1 aims2.
Prerequisites3.
Focal-slots4.
Ranges5.
D i rec t ion - to -s t rengthen-p la in t i f f6.
Signif icance7.
Cases-indexedFor instance, the prerequisites of the Secrets-voluntarily-disclosed dimension are that twocorporations, plaintiff and defendant, compete with respect to a product, plaintiff  hasconfidential product information to which defendant has gained access and plaintiff  has madesome disclosures of the information to outsiders.
The prerequisites are stated in terms offactual predicates, which indicate the presence or absence of a legal fact or attribute (e.g.,existence of a product, existence of a non-disclosure agreement).
The focal slot of thisdimension is the number of disclosees and its range is a non-negative integer.
To strengthenthe plaintiff's position in a fact situation to which this dimension applies, decrease the numberof disclosees; the best case being that with 0 disclosees.
The significance of the dimension isthat courts have found that the prerequisite facts are a reason for deciding a trade secretsmisappropriation claim.
This dimension indexes at least two cases in the CKB: Midland-Rossin which the court held for the defendant where the plaintiff disclosed the secret to 100persons, and Data-General in which the court held for plaintiff where plaintiff disclosed to6000 persons.
Some of the dimensions relevant to this paper are summarized in the Appendix;HYPO knows about 30 dimensions in all (some of the others are described in \[Rissland,Valcarce & Ashley, 1984\]).
The dimensions were gleaned from law journal articles describing169the state of the (case) law in this a,rea \[Gilburne & Johnson, 1982\].The overall flow of information in HYPO is presented in Figure 1.
Particularly of interest tous here is HYPO's CASE-ANALYSIS module.
In essence, this module works as a diagnosticengine to determine which dimensions apply to a fact situation.
The prerequisites, in effect,define antecedent conditions and a dimension (i.e., a possible reason for deciding a claim in aparticular way) is the consequent.
To make an analogy with the medical domain and MYCIN-like diagnosis, the prerequisite facts are like symptomatic features and the dimensions are likeintermediate disease classes.
The other modules are described in more detail in \[Ashley andRissland, 1985\] and in \[Ashley, 1986\].The output of the CASE-ANALYSIS MODULE is the Case-analysis-record which contains:I .
applicable factual predicates2.
applicable dimensions3.
near-miss dimensions4.
applicable claims5.
relevant CKB cases6.
conf l i c t  examples7.
points-and-responsesThe case-analysis-record is used by HYPO's ARGUMENT and HYPO-GEN modules.
HYPO'sargument ask is to generate 3-ply arguments, which means given the statement of the currentfacts, (1) side 1 generates a point which includes citation of supporting cases, in particular theone\[s\]  HYPO considers the "best" supporting case, abstracting from it the "rule" of that case,and stating how it applies to the current facts; (2) side 2 generates a response which mightinclude citation of a best opposing case, refutation of side l's point with use of a singlehypothetical or slippery slope sequence, re-explanation of side l's best case in a way more inline with side 2's position; and (3) side l's counter-response to side 2's response.For the remainder of the paper, we concentrate on HYPO's ability to generate hypotheticals.4.
Heuristics for Generating HypotheticalsBasically what HYPO does is to start with a given fact situation, or seed case, and generatelegally relevant or plausible derivative hypotheticals by modifying the seed case.
Since onecannot explore all the "legally" possible (in the sense of syntactic legal move), one needs toexplore the space heuristically.
Dimensions provide a handle on how to do this exploration ina legally meaningful way.The process occurs in two steps:(1) analyze the seed case;(2) generate legally relevant derivative hypotheticals.Step one is accomplished by the CASE-ANALYSIS module and results in the case-analysis-record described in the previous section.
To recall, this is like a "legal-diagnosis".Step two is accomplished by the HYPO-GEN module which given high level argument goals(e.g., generate a slippery slope sequence to refute side l's position), uses the case-analysis-record, and heuristics like the following to generate hypotheticals derived from the seed case:H1.
Pick a near miss dimension and modify the facts to make i t  appl icable.H2.
Pick an applicable dimension and make the case weaker or strongeralong that dimension.H3.
Pick a dimension related to one of the applicable dimensions and applyor 2.H4.
Pick an applicable dimension and make the case extremewith respect to that dimension.170H5.
P ick a ta rget  case  , that  i s  a win and, us ing  1 and 2, move the  seedcase  toward i t  to  c reate  a near win.In order to illustrate these methods, we will use the following hypothetical case, Widget-Kingv.
Cupcake, whose facts are as follows:Plaintiff Widget-King and defendant Cupcake are corporations that makecompeting products.
Widget-King has confidential information concerning its ownproduct.
Cupcake gained access to Widget-King's confidential information.
Cupcakesaved expense developing its competing product.The parts of the case-analysis-record for Widget-King v. Cupcake that are relevant for thefollowing sections are:app\] i cab le  dimensions:  competitive-advantage-gainednear -miss  dimensions : secrets-voluntarily-disclosed; vertical-kr.owledgere levant  CKB cases:  Telex v. IBM4.1.
Make a near miss dimension applyTo make a hypothetical out of a fact situation according to this heuristic method, HYPOselects a near miss dimension and "fills in" the missing prerequisites.
HYPO instantiatesobjects and makes appropriate cross references among objects' slots so that the missing factualpredicates are satisfied.
For example, secrets-voluntarily-disclosed would apply to Widget-Kingbut for the fact that the confidential information had not been disclosed to anyone.
Theprogram instantiates, let us say, five disclosures and sets the subject of the disclosures to be theconfidential information.
As discussed below, the number of disclosures, five, may be derivedfrom an actual case that the program is considering in the context of making up thehypothetical, or it may be somewhat arbitrarily chosen by the program from within the rangeof the dimension.4.2.
Make a case weaker or strongerHYPO generates a derivative hypothetical weaker/stronger than the seed case by using theinformation it knows about dimensions.
It can make a case weaker or stronger in two ways:(1) independently of the "caselaw" represented by the CKB; or (2) based on the CKB using aweak form of analogy.
To accomplish a CKB-independent strengthening/weakening, HYPOsimply changes the values of a focal slot in the manner specified by the direction-to-strengthen slot; the amount of change is somewhat arbitrary.
To accomplish a CKB-basedmodification, for instance to strengthen, HYPO first chooses a case that (a) shares thedimension being manipulated, and (b) is further along the dimension in the stronger direction.HYPO then adjusts the values of the focal slots of the seed in the stronger direction so thatthe derivative case is stronger than the "precedent" chosen from the CKB.
These changes caninvolve numerical, symbolic or Boolean values.
For symbolic values, this means using a partialordering on values.Modifications can involve more than one focal slot, for instance a ratio.
For example, givenour fact situation involving Widget-King and Cupcake which involves some expenditure ofmoney by Widget-King for product development, he Telex v. IBM case in the CKB isrelevant.
In Telex the ratio of paintiff's to defendant's expenditures was 2:1 (and the paintiffwon).
So to strengthen Widget-King's case, change ratio of Widget-King's to Cupcake'sexpenses to be at least 2:1.
All example of such ratio manipulation can also be found in\[McCarty & Sridharan, 1981\].Even a simple change in a single numerical focal slot value can have serious legal impications.Again consider our Widget-King case, as modified by the introduction of 5 disclosees, andmake it weaker along the secrets-voluntarily-disclosed dimension by using cases from theCKB.
HYPO increases the number of Widget-King disclosees from 5 to 150 based on:Midland-Ross which was decided for the defendant because there were too many disclosees(100) and now Widget-King has passed the 100-disciosee threshold.
Note, Widget-King could171still rely on Data-General and a(gue that since the plaintiff won in that case (with 6000disclosees), it should still win with only 150.
HYPO could make the case weaker still byincreasing the number of disclosees near or above 6000, the highest value in the CKB or evengreater (in a CKB-independent way) to the highest value allowed by HYPO.There are pros and cons to the two methods.
The CKB-independent method is easy to do, butthe precedential value of the derivative hypothetical is not predictable.
The CKB-based methodgenerates a hypo with known precedents; the drawback is that it call get complicated.
HYPOtries to do CKB-based strengthening/weakening f rst, if it can't (e.g., because no relevant caseexists in the CKB), it uses the CKB-independent approach.
In either case, the task of actuallygenerating the explanation (as we did above) why the hypo is stronger or weaker belongs toHYPO's EXPLANATION module.4.3.
Generate a hypo on a related dimensionThe dimensions disclosures-subject-to-restriction and secrets-voluntarily-disclosed are related;in particular they conflict with one another.
Dimensions conflict where there is a particularcase to which the dimensions apply and the facts of the case make it strong for the plainti f fon one dimension and weak on the other.
Such a case is called a conflict-example.
Data-General is a conflict-example: it is weak for the plaintiff along the secrets-voluntarily-disclosed dimension (100 disclosees) and strong for the plaintiff  along the disclosures-subject-to-restriction dimension (each disclosure subject to nondisclosure agreement).
In Data-General,the conflict was resolved in favor of the plaintiff.A hypothetical on a related dimension can be generated by taking the seed case and addingfacts sufficient to make the related dimension apply to it in a manner similar to that withheuristic H1.
For example, the Widget-King case, as modified by H1 and H2 above, can befurther modified so that disclosures-subject-to-restriction applies by making all of thedisclosures ubject to nondi~closure agreements, in this example, the related dimension is also anear miss dimension but that need not always be true.A hypothetical generated on a conflicting dimension is interesting because it is an example ofa case where, at least arguably, facts associated with one dimension can override the effects ofthe other dimension's facts.4.4.
Examine an extreme caseTo generate an extreme case, HYPO simply changes the value of a focal slot to be an extremeof its range of values.
This can also be done in either a CKB-based or CKB-independentmanner.
The former method pushes the slot value to the extreme actually existing in a case inthe CKB, the latter simply pushes the slot value to its permissible xtreme.For instance, the extreme case on the strongest end of the secrets-voluntarily-discloseddimension for Widget-King is the facts as stated above with the exception that there are 0disclosees.
The other extreme is the maximum value for number of disclosees which in theCKB is 6000 and which in HYPO is 10,000,000.4.5.
Manipulating a near w i .A near win hypo is one in which a seed fact situation is weak on behalf of, let us say, theplaintiff.
It can be "moved" in the direction of a real target case from the CKB that has beendecided in favor of the plaintiff.
Using methods H1 through H3, HYPO endows the seedsituation with the facts to make the case strong for the plaintiff.
As a result, the target casebecomes relevant to the seed hypothetical and an argument can be made, based on the pro-plaintiff target case, that the hypo should be decided in favor of the plaintiff.
Correspondinglya near win hypo can start with a pro-plaintiff  fact situation and be moved ill the oppositedirection away from the pro-plaintiff  target case or towards a pro-defendant target case.For example, consider two cases: Telex, which we have already seen above, and AutomatedSystems, where court held in favor of the defendant where the confidential information that172the plaintiff wanted to protect was about a customer's business operations, that is, theknowledge was about a "vertical rnarket".
Using the Telex case as a seed, and AutomatedSystems as target, HYPO could make Telex a near win by making IBM's confidentialinformation be vertical knowledge (i.e., be about a customers business operations).
As a result,an argument could be based on Automated Systems that, in the hypo, defendant Telex shouldwin.5.
Examples of Heuristic HYPO ExplorationHYPO's heuristically guided generation of hypotheticals makes it possible to explore a factsituation's legal significance in a manner not unlike the sequence of hypotheticals in the crecheexample from the Lynch case oral argument.Suppose (a) the original Widget-King case is modified so that the confidential information isabout customer business operations.
Suppose on appeal to the Supreme Court, Cupcake'scounsel, citing Automated Systems, has just argued to the Justices that his client should winbecause vertical knowledge is not protectible as a trade secret.
One can imagine a Justiceposing the following line of hypotheticals:.Q: What never?
Suppose (b) Widget-King's alleged trade secret information,eventhough it was vertical knowledge, helped it to produce its competing product inhalf the time like in the Telex case?Q: Suppose (c) the vertical knowledge allowed Widget-King to bring its product tomarket in one fourth the time and at one fourth the expense.Q: Suppose (d) that Cupcake paid a large sum to a former employee of Widget-King to use the information to build a competing product, as Telex did.
Wouldn'tthe information be protectible as a trade secret then?.In this example, heuristic methods 1,2,3 and 5 are at work.
Near miss dimension vertical-knowledge is used with 1 to create the intial hypo (a).
The modification at (b) is produced by5 and 2 using the the Telex case as the target.
Method 2 is used to make the stronger hypo at(c).
Methods 5, 1 and 2 are used to create the hypo at (d) where the near miss dimension iscommon-employee-paid-to-change-employers.It is interesting that a previous version of HYPO serendipitously generated a hypothetical verymuch like this.
The starting point was a fact situation presenting a very strong position forthe plaintiff along various dimensions: it involved alleged misappropriation of plaintiff'sunique, novel technical knowledge about computer system hardware for a particular purpose,knowledge that was not learnable by an employee working for one of the plaintiff'scompetitor's and that conferred on the plaintiff a year's competitive advantage in bringing itsproduct to market.
Then, by accident, the hypo was changed by turning the technicalknowledge about hardware into vertical knowledge about bank accounting practices.
Althoughaccording to the Automated Systems case, the new hypo presented a very much weakenedposition for the plaintiff, it was immediately apparent o the attorney using the program thatthe Automated Systems case was distinguishable - -  it did not involve the facts that theknowledge, though vertical, was unique, novel, not learnable elsewhere and conferred asubstantial competitive advantage on its possessor --  and suggested the germ of an argumentfor the protectibility of vertical knowledge --  demonstrate that the vertical knowledge isunique, novel, etc.Since that accidental discovery, we have provided the system with the above heuristic methodsso that, given a case, it can generate a hypo that is distinguishable from the case in a legallysignificant way.
Starting from a real case, methods 3 and 5, in particular, are recipes forcreating hypo's with facts that justify a different holding from the real case.
Our goal is forthe system itself to realize that the hypo is significantly distinguishable and why and togenerate such hypos on purpose to make points in an argument.Having reached step (d) in the above extended example, a hypothetical has been constructedthat is fairly strong for the plaintiff.
But plaintiff's position can be eroded by moves along173other dimensions.
One can imagine the scene at 11 p.m. in the oak-paneled library at 14 WallStreet as two first year associate attorneys, assigned to preparing an initial memorandum as tothe strengths of Widget-King's claim against Cupcake, play devil's advocate with the facts:Q: Suppose (e) that Widget-King made disclosures to 100 outside persons as in theMidland-Ross case.Q: Well, maybe (f) all of the disclosees entered into nondisclosure agreements asin Data-General.
Under that case, Widget-King (g) could have made restricteddisclosures to as many as 6000 people.Q: What if (h) Widget-King made restricted disclosures to 10,000,000 people.
Is itstill a secret?
(Not an idle hypothetical in this day of mass marketing of software.
)Q: Are the nondisclosure agreements enforceable?
What did all of these peopleget in exchange for agreeing not to disclose the secret?
Suppose (i) that the discloseesdid not receive anything of value for entering into the nondisclosure agreements?With secrets-voluntarily-disclosed as near miss dimension and the Midland-Ross case astarget, the hypo at (e) can be generated from (d) using methods 5, 1 and 2.
(f) represents amethod 3 move to a conflict dimension, disclosures-subject-to-restriction.
We assume that theData-General case has been recognized as a conflict-example.
Otherwise this could be regardedas a method 5 move with Data-General as a target.
Using method 4, the hypo at (g) has beenmoved to  the extreme value in Data-General and at (h) to the extreme of the range of thedimension.
The program does not know that a secret told to 10,000,000 people is not a secret,even if they promise not to tell anyone else, but the program does know that two dimensionsconfl ict and that moving to an extreme on one dimension may cause the conflict to be moot.Having exhausted the possibilities for weakening the case along the secrets-voluntari ly-disclosed dimension, the program moves, using methods 1 and 2, to a dimension that became anear miss as soon as nondisclosure agreements came into the hypo at (f), agreement-supported-by-consideration.One can also analyze the sequence of hypotheticals about the civic creche display from theLynch case oral argument in terms of the dimensional model and heuristics for building hypo's.The justices make the basic fact situation weaker and stronger along a dimension that might becalled focus-of-attention: they remove all of the secular images leaving only the religious one,they physically shrink the symbol to an extreme and relegate it to a corner, they remove thereligious symbols and leave the secular ones.
They weaken plaintiff's case along the dimensionof civic-content-message by moving it to a municipal art museum or the frieze of acourtroom.
They compare the case along the dimension of government- involvement to anextreme example, the Pope's mass on the Mall.6.
ConclusionsIn this paper, we have discussed an aspect of reasoning involving the use of hypothetical cases.In particular, we have discussed how our case-based legal reasoning program HYPO currentlyuses case examples, dimensions, and five or so heuristic methods to compare the legalconsequences of facts and to generate hypothetical fact situations to augment and explore itscase base.
The hypos help accomplish analysis tasks, such as testing the sensitivity of positionsand relating a fact situation to significant past cases, and argument tasks, such as generating aslippery slope to refine or refute an argument and controlling the course of argument.
HYPO'sheuristics involve (1) strengthening/weakening of a case; (2) taking the case to extremes: (3)making a near miss case a winning one; (4) manipulating a near win; and (5) examining a casealong a related dimension.As indicated earlier, one of our performance goals for HYPO is to have HYPO generate 3-plyargument exchanges which involve a heavy dose of case-based reasoning like distinguishingcases and using hypotheticals.
Eventually we hope to bring together our descriptive work onargument moves and hypotheticals \[Rissland, 1985; Stucky, 1985\] with our computational 3-plyargument work.
We also hope that this work on HYPO will cross-potentiate with work on theintelligent selection of examples for learning systems, a topic, we feel has been too oftenglossed over.
The heuristic generation of hypotheticals is a step towa.rds both these goals.However even as they now stand, HYPO's current hypothetical reasoning powers can be helpfulin formulating, testing, debugging, and learning in case-based tasks.174References\[1\] Kevin D. Ashley.
Modelling Legal Argument: Reasoning with Caseinand Hypothcticalm - A 1'hemi~ PropoaaL Project Memo 10, The COUN-SELOR Project, Department of Computer and Information Science,University of Ma~mchusetts, 1986.Kevin D. Ashley.
Reasoning by Analogy: A Survey of Selected A.I.
Re-search with Implications for Legal Expert Systems.
La Charles Walter,editor, Computing Power and Legal Reasoning, West Publishing Co.,St.
Paul, MN, 1985.\[3\] Kevin D. Ashley and Edwina L. Rissland.
Toward ModeLling Legal Ar-gument.
In Antonio A. Martino and Fiorenza Soeci Natali, editors, Attipreliminari dei H Convegno internazionale di atudi #u Logica lnformat-ica Diritto, pages 97-108, Consiglio Nazionale deUe Ricerche, Istitutoper la documentazione giuridica, Florence, Italy, September 1985.\[4\] William J. Clancey.
Classification Problem Solving.
In Proceedingsof the Fourth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AmericanAssociation for Artificial Intelligence, Austin, TX, August 1984.\[5\] A. vdL.
Gardner.
An Artificial Intelligence Approach to Legal Reason-ing.
PhD thesis, Department ofComputer Science, Stanford University,1984.\[6\] Paul Gewirtz.
The Jurisprudence of Hypotheticah.
American BarA88ociation Journa~ 67:864-866, 1981.17\] M. R. Gilburue and R. L. Joh-,ton.
Trade Secret Protection for Soft-ware Generally and in the Mass Market.
Computer/LawJournal~ III(3),1982.\[s\]\[91H.L.A.
Hart.
The Concept o/Law.
Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1961.Wendy G. Lehnert, David D. McDonald, and Edwina L. Rissland.Natural Language Generation in Battlefield Management, A Proposalfor the DARPA Strategic Computing Program.
University of Mas-sachusetts, Department of Computer and Information Science, 1984.\[10\] Edward H. Levi.
An Introduction to Legal Reasoning.
University ofChicago Press, 1949.175\[nl1121\[13\]\[141\[151\[16\]\[17\]\[181Ilg\]I 01Karl N. Llewellyn.
Praejudizienrecht und Rechtssprechung i  Amerika.Section 52, Certainty in Case Law; In Doubtful Cases the Legal Ruleis not Decisive, pages 72-86.
1933.K.N.
LleweUyn.
The Bramble Bgsh: On Our Law and ltl Study.Oceana Publications, Dobbs Ferry, NY, 1960 edition, 1930.L.
Thorne McCarty and N.S.
Sridharan.
A Computational Theory ofLegal Argument.
Technical Report LRP-TR-13, Laboratory for Com-puter Science Research, Rutgers University, 1982.L.
Thorne McCarty and N.S.
Sridharan.
The Representation f anEvolving System of Legal Concepts: H. Prototypes and Deformations.In Proeeedingm of the Seventh International $o/nt Conference on Arti-ficial Intelligence, International Joint Conferences on Artificial Intelli-gence, Inc., Vancouver, B.C., August 1981.E.
Barrett Prettyman, Jr.
Opposing Certiorari n the United StatesSupreme Court.
Virginia Law Reviet~, 61:197-209, February 1975.Edwina L. Rissland.
Hypotheticals from Oral ArKument before theSupreme Court: an Analysis.
1986. in press.Edwina L. Rissland.
Argument Moves and Hypotheticals.
In CharlesWalter, editor, Computing Power and Legal Rea~oning, West PublishingCo., St. Paul, MN, 1985.Edwina L. Rissland.
Hypothetically Speaking: Experience and Reason-ing in the Law.
In Proeeedings First Annual Conference on Theoretical"Issues in Conceptual Information Processing, Georgia Institute of Tech-nology, Atlanta, CA, March 1984.Edwina L. Rissland.
Examples in Legal Reasoning: Legal Hypothet-icals.
In Proceedings of the Eighth International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence, International Joint Conferences on Artificial In-telligence, Inc., Karlsruhe, Germany, August 1983.Edwina L. Rissland and Robert T. Collins.
The Law as a LearningSystem.
Submitted to the 8th Annual Conference of the CognitiseScience Society.
1986.1761211\[221Edwina L. Ri~land, E. M. Valcarce, and Kevin D. Ashley.
Expl~i--ing and Arguing with Examples.
In Proceedingm of the Fourth NationalConference on Artlfwial Intelligence, American A~ociation for Artifi-cial Intelligence, Austin, YX, Augumt 1984.Brian Sttucky.
Underatandlng Legal ArgumenL Project Memo 11, TheCOUNSELOR Project, Department ofComputer and Information Sci-ence, University of Ma~achusetts, 1986.\[23\] The Complete Oral Arg-ments of the Supreme Court of the UnitedStates.
University Publicatious of America, Frederick, MD.\[24\] Philip Wemer, Kevin D. Ashley, and Brian Sttucky.
Analyzing ExpertDiscourse: A Knowledge Acquisition Strategy for Building an ExpertAdvice Giver.
1986. in preparation.177APPENDIXTdez Corp. f. IBM Corp., 510 F.2d 894 (5th Cir., 1975).Held for plaintiff IBM on trade secrets mtqappropriation claim where Telex gained access to IBM's?onlldeatinl product development information by hiring an IBM employee, paying him 8 large bonusto develop a competing product.
The employee used development otes he brought from IBM.
Telexsaved time and expense developing the competing product.Midland-Ross Corp. w. Snrtbeam Eguipmeat COTp., 316 F.Supp.
171 (W.D.
Pa., 1970).Held for defendant Sunbeam on trade secrets misappropriation claim where Midland-Ross disclosedtt's technical product developyment i fo to 100 persons.Data GeaeTal Corp. w. Digital Computer COatTolt, ltte., 35?
A.2d 105 (DeL Ch.
1975).Held for pl,,intiff Data General on trade secrets misappropriation claim where Data General disclosedits technical product development info to 6000 persons, all of whom were subject to nondisclosureagreements.Aztorn~ted Systems, Inc. w. Sertdee Bureau Corp., 401 F.2d 619 (10th Cir., 1968).Held for defendant SBC on trade secrets misappropriation ?l,tlm where Automated-Systems' confiden-tial info was about customer's business operations (Le., vertical info)./ Table Is Sample Cases f rom Case Knowledge Base.Secrets-voluntarl ly-dlselosedsSlgnlflcances Pl~intiff's (P's) position stronger the fewer persons to whom secrets disclosed.Prerequlsltesz P and Defendant (D) compete; D had access to P's product information and gainedsome competitive advantage; some disclosures.Focal slots Number of disclosees.
To Strengthen P: Decrease number of disclosees.
Ranges 0 toN.
Cases lndexeds Midland.Rots, Data-GeneralDlsclo.ures-subJect-to-restr let longSlgnlflcances P's position stronger the fewer discloseea not subject o nondiscloaure agreements.Prerequisltesx Competition; access to info; some disclosures and nondisclosure agreements.Focal slots Number of disclosees subject o restriction.
To Strengthen Ps Increase percentage ofdisclosees subject o restriction.
Range: 0 - 100 %.
Cases Indexed: Dater-GeneralCompet l t lve-advant  age-galnedsSlgnlfleaneet P's position stronger the greater competitive advantage gained by D.Prerequlsltess Competition; access to info; D saved some expense.Focal slot: Development expense saved.
To St rengthen P: Increase xpense saved by D. Ranger0 - 100 %.
Cases lndexeds Telez w. IBMVert lcal-knowledgelSlgnlflcancez P's position stronger if information technical, not verticaLPrerequlslteax P and D compete; D had access to P's product information; info about something.Focal slots What information is about.
To St rengthen Pt Make information about technicaldevelopment of product.
Ranger (technica~ vertical} Cases lndexedx A,tomated Systems, et alTable 2t Sample Dimensions.178
