Overv iew of the TACITUS Pro jectJer ry  R. HobbsArtificial Intel l igence CenterSRI  In ternat iona l1 A ims of the Pro jectThe specific aim of the TACITUS project is to develop interpretation pro-cesses for handling casualty reports (casreps), which are messages in free-flowing text about breakdowns of machinery.
1 These interpretation pro-cesses will be an essential component, and indeed the principal component,of systems for automatic message routing and systems for the automaticextraction of information from messages for entry into a data base or anexpert system.
In the latter application, for example, it is desirable to beable to recognize conditions in the message that instantiate conditions inthe antecedents of the expert system's rules, so that the expert system canreason on the basis of more up-to-date and more specific information.More broadly, our aim is to develop general procedures, together with theunderlying theory, for using commonsense and technical knowledge in theinterpretation ofwritten discourse.
This effort divides into five subareas: (1)syntax and semantic translation; (2) commonsense knowledge; (3) domainknowledge; (4) deduction; (5) ~local" pragmatics.
Our approach in each ofthese areas is discussed in turn.2 Syntax  and Semant ic  Translat ionSyntactic analysis and semantic translation in the TACITUS project arebeing done by the DIALOGIC system.
DIALOGIC has perhaps as exten-sive a coverage of English syntax as any system in existence, it producesIThe TACITUS project is funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agencyunder Office of Naval Research contract N00014-85-C-0013, as part of the Strategic Com-puting program.19a logical form in first-order predicate calculus, and it was used as the syn-tactic component of the TEAM system.
The principal addition we havemade to the system during the TACITUS project has been a menu-basedcomponent for rapid vocabulary acquisition, that allows us to acquire sev-eral hundred lexical items in an afternoon's work.
We are now modifyingDIALOGIC to produce neutral representations i tead of multiple readingsfor the most common types of syntactic ambiguities, including prepositionalphrase attachment ambiguities and very compound noun ambiguities.3 Commonsense KnowledgeOur aim in this phase of the project is to encode large amounts of com-monsense knowledge in first-order predicate calculus in a way that can beused for knowledge-based processing of natural anguage discourse.
Our ap-proach is to define rich core theories of various domains, explicating theirbasic ontologies and structure, and then to define, or at least to charac-terize, various English words in terms of predicates provided by these coretheories.
So far, we have alternated between working from the inside out,from explications of the core theories to characterizations of the words, andfrom the outside in, from the words to the core theories.
Thus, we first pro-ceeded from the outside in by examining the concept of ~wear', as in "wornbearings", seeking to define ~wear", and then to define the concepts we de-fined Uwear" in terms of, pushing the process back to basic concepts in thedomains of space, materials, and force, among others.
We then proceededfrom the inside out, trying to flesh out the core theories of these domains,as well as the domains of scalar notions, time, measure, orientation, shape,and functionality.
Then to test the adequacy of these theories, we beganworking from the outside in again, spending some time defining, or charac-terizing, the words related to these domains that occurred in our target setof casreps.
We are now working from the inside out again, going over thecore theories and the definitions with a fine-tooth comb, checking manuallyfor consistency and adequacy and proving simple consequences of the ax-ioms on the KADS theorem-prover.
This work is described in an enclosedpublication \[1\].204 Domain  KnowledgeIn all of our work we are seeking eneral solutions that can be used in a widevariety of applications.
This may seem impossible for domain knowledge.
Inour particular case, we must express facts about the starting air compressorof a ship.
It would appear difficult o employ this knowledge in any other ap-plication.
However, our approach makes most of our work even in this arearelevant o many other domains.
We are specifying a number of "abstractmachines" or "abstract systems", in levels, of which the particular device wemust model is an instantiation.
We define, for example, a "closed producer-consumer system".
We then define a "closed clean fluid producer-consumersystem" as a closed producer-consumer system with certain additional prop-erties, and at one more level of specificity, we define a "pressurized lube-oilsystem".
The specific lube-oil system of the starting air compressor, withall its idiosyncratic features, is then an instantiation of the last of these.
Inthis way, when we have to model other devices, we can do so by definingthem to be the most specific applicable abstract machine that has been de-fined previously, thereby obviating much of the work of specification.
Anelectrical circuit, for example, is also a closed producer-consumer system.5 Deduct ionThe deduction component of the TACITUS system is the KLAUS Auto-mated Deduction System (KADS), developed as part of the KLAUS projectfor research on the interactive acquisition and use of knowledge throughnatural language.
Its principal inference operation is nonclausal resolu-tion, with possible resolution operations encoded in a connection graph.The nonclausal representation eliminates redundancy introduced by trans-lating formulas to clause form, and improves readability as well.
Specialcontrol connectives can be used to restrict use of the formulas to either for-ward chaining or backward chaining.
Evaluation functions determine thesequence of inference operations in KADS.
At each step, KADS resolves onthe highest-rated link.
The resolvent is then evaluated for retention andlinks to the new formula are evaluated for retention and priority.
KADSsupports the incorporation of theories for more efficient deduction, includ-ing deduction by demodulation, associative and commutative unification,many-sorted unification, and theory resolution.
The last of these has beenused for efficient deduction using a sort hierarchy.
Its efficient methods forperforming some reasoning about sorts and equality and the facility for or-21dering searches by means of an evaluation function make it particularly wellsuited for the kinds of deductive processing required in a knowledge-basednatural language system.6 Local Pragmat icsWe have begun to formulate a general approach to several problems thatlie at the boundary between semantics and pragmatics.
These are problemsthat arise in single sentences, even though one may have to look beyond thesingle sentence to solve them.
The problems are metonymy, reference, theinterpretation of compound nominals, and lexical and syntactic ambiguity.All of these may be called problems in "local pragmatics".
Solving them con-st itutes at least part of what the interpretation of a text is.
We take it thatinterpretation is a matter of reasoning about what is possible, and there-fore rests fundamentally on deductive operations.
We have formulated veryabstract characterizations of the solutions to the local pragmatics problemsin terms of what can be deduced from a knowledge base of commonsenseand domain knowledge.
In particular, we have devised a general algorithmfor building an expression from the logical form of a sentence, such that aconstructive proof of the expression from the knowledge base will constitutean interpretation of the sentence.
This can be i l lustrated with the sentencefrom the casrepsDisengaged compressor after lube oil alarm.To resolve the reference of "alarm" one must prove constructively the ex-pression(3 x)alarm(x)To resolve the implicit relation between the two nouns in the compoundnominal "lube oil alarm" (where "lube oil" is taken as a multiword), onemust prove constructively from the knowledge base the existence of somepossible relation, which we may call nn,  between the entities referred to bythe nouns:C3 ^ .,be-oaCv) ^A metonymy occurs in the sentence in that "after" requires its object to bean event, whereas the explicit object is a device.
To resolve a metonymythat occurs when a predicate is applied to an explicit argument hat fails to22satisfy the constraints imposed by the predicate on its argument, one mustprove constructively the possible xistence of an entity that is related to theexplicit argument and satisfies the constraints imposed by the predicate.Thus, the logical form of the sentence is modified to.
.
.
A a f te r (d ,e )  A q (e ,x )  A a la rm(x)  A .
.
.and the expression to be proved constructively is(3e)event (e )  A q (e ,x )  A a la rmCx)  A .
.
.In the most general approach, nn and q are predicate variables.
In lessambitious approaches, they can be predicate constants, as illustrated below.These are very abstract and insufficiently constrained formulations ofsolutions to the local pragmatics problems.
Our further research in thisarea has probed in four directions.
(1) We have been examining various previous approaches to these prob-lems in linguistics and computational linguistics, in order to reinterpret theminto our framework.
For example, an approach that says the implicit rela-tion in a compound nominal must be one of a specified set of relations, suchas "part-of', can be captured by treating "nn" as a predicate constant andby including in the knowledge base axioms like(v x, y)part-of(y, x) ..(x, y)In this fashion, we have been able to characterize succinctly the most com-mon methods used for solving these problems in previous natural anguagesystems, such as the methods used in the TEAM system.
(2) We have been investigating constraints on the most general formula-tions of the problems.
There are general constraints, uch as the MinimalityPrinciple, which states that one should favor the minimal solution in thesense that the fewest new entities and relations must be hypothesized.
Forexample, the argument-relation pattern in compound nominals, as in "lubeoil pressure", can be seen as satisfying the Minimality Principle, since theimplicit relation is simply the one already given by the head noun.
In addi-tion, we are looking for constraints that are specific to given problems.
Forexample, whereas whole-part compound nominals, like "regulator valve",are quite common, part-whole compound nominals eem to be quite rare.This is probably because of a principle that says that noun modifiers houldfurther restrict the possible reference of the noun phrase, and parts arecommon to too many wholes to perform that function.23(3) A knowledge base contains two kinds of knowledge, "type" knowledgeabout what kinds of situations are possible, and "token" knowledge aboutwhat the actual situation is.
We are trying to determine which of thesekinds of knowledge are required for each of the pragmatics problems.
Forexample, reference requires both type and token knowledge, whereas mostif not all instances of metonymy seem to require only type knowledge.
(4) At the most abstract level, interpretation requires the constructiveproof of a single logical expression consisting of many conjuncts.
The deduc-tion component can attempt to prove these conjuncts in a variety of orders.We have been investigating some of these possible orders.
For example, oneplausible candidate is that one should work from the inside out, trying firstto solve the reference problems of arguments ofpredications before attempt-ing to solve the compound nominal and metonymy problems presented bythose predications.
In our framework, this is an issue of where subgoals forthe deduction component should be placed on an agenda.7 Implementat ionIn our implementation f the TACITUS system, we are beginning with theminimal approach and building up slowly.
As we implement the local prag-matics operations, we are using a knowledge base containing only the axiomsthat are needed for the test examples.
Thus, it grows slowly as we try outmore and more texts.
As we gain greater confidence in the pragmatics op-erations, we will move more and more of the axioms from our commonsenseand domain knowledge bases into the system's knowledge base.
Our initialversions of the pragmatics operations are, for the most part, fairly standardtechniques recast into our abstract framework.
When the knowledge basehas reached asignificant size, we will begin experimenting with more generalsolutions and with various constraints on those general solutions.8 Future  P lansIn addition to pursuing our research in each of the areas described above,we will institute two new efforts next year.
First of all, we will begin toextend our work in pragmatics to the recognition of discourse structure.This problem is illustrated by the following text:Air regulating valve failed.Gas turbine engine wouldn't urn over.24Valve parts corroded.The temporal structure of this text is 3-1-2; first the valve parts corroded,and this caused the valve to fail, which caused the engine to not turn over.To recognize this structure, one must reason about causal relationships inthe model of the device, and in addition one must recognize patterns ofexplanation and consequence in the text.The second new effort will be to build tools for domain knowledge ac-quisition.
These will be based on the abstract machines in terms of whichwe are presently encoding our domain knowledge.
Thus, the system shouldbe able to allow the user to choose one of a set of abstract machines andthen to augment i with various parts, properties and relations.ResearchersThe following researchers are participating in the TACITUS project: JohnBear, William Croft, Todd Davies, Douglas Edwards, Jerry Hobbs, KennethLaws, Paul Martin, Fernando Pereira, Raymond Perrault, Stuart Shieber,Mark Stickel, and Mabry Tyson.Pub l i ca t ion1.
Hobbs, Jerry R., William Croft, Todd Davies, Douglas Edwards, andKenneth Laws, "Commonsense Metaphysics and Lexical Semantics", Pro-ceedings, 2~th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, New York, June 1986., pp.
231-240.25
