Research  and Development in Natural  Language Process ingat BBN Laborator iesin the St rateg ic  Computing ProgramBBN Laborator ies ,  Inc.Cambridge, MA 02238STAFF: Ralph Weischedel (Principal Investigator), Remko Scha, Edward Walker, DamarisAyuso, Andrew Haas, Erhard Hinrichs, Robert Ingria, Lance Ramshaw, Varda Shaked,David Stallard1 BackgroundBBN's respons ib i l i ty  is to conduct  research  and development  in natura l  languagein ter face  technology.
This respons ib i l i ty  has three  aspects:o to demonst ra te  s ta te -o f - the -ar t  techno logy in a Strateg ic  Computingappl icat ion,  col lect ing data regard ing  the ef fect iveness  of the demonst ratedheur is t ics ,!o to conduct  research  in natura l  language in ter face  technology,  as itemized inthe descr ipt ion  of JANUS la ter  in this note,  ando to in tegrate  techno logy  from other  natura l  language in ter face  cont ractors ,including USC/ Informat ion Sc iences Inst i tute,  the Univers i ty  of Pennsylvania,and the Univers i ty of Massachuset ts .Of the three  init ial  app l icat ions  descr ibed in the overview, the Fleet CommandCenter  Batt le Management Program (FCCBMP) has been the appl icat ion providing thedomain in which our  work is being car r ied  out.
The FCCBMP encompasses thedevelopment  of exper t  system capab i l i t ies  at the Pacif ic Fleet Command Center inHawaii, and the development  of an in tegrated  natura l  language in ter face  to these newcapabi l i t ies as well as to the exist ing data  bases and graphic  display faci l it ies.
BBN isdeveloping a ser ies of inc reas ing ly  soph is t icated natura l  language unders tand ingsystems which will serve as an in tegrated  in ter face  to severa l  faci l i t ies at the Pacif icF leet Command Center:  the In tegrated  Data Base (IDB), which conta ins  informationabout  ships, the i r  read iness  s tates ,  the i r  capabi l i t ies,  etc.
; the Operat ions SupportGroup Prototype  (OSGP), a graph ics  system which can display locat ions and i t inerar iesof ships on maps; and the Force  Requirements  Expert  System (FRESH) which is beingbui l t  by Texas Inst ruments .The ta rget  users  for this appl icat ion are naval  of f icers  involved in decis ion1BBN Laboratories Incorporatedmaking at  the Paci f ic  F leet Command Center ;  these  are  execut ives  whose e f for t  isbet te r  spent  on navy  prob lems and dec is ion  making than  on the  deta i ls  of whichso f tware  system of fers  a g iven in fo rmat ion  capabi l i ty ,  how a prob lem shou ld  be d iv idedto make use of the var ious  systems,  or how to synthes ize  the  resu l t s  from severa lsources  into the des i red  answer .
Cur rent ly  they  do not  access  the  data  base or OSGPapp l i ca t ion  programs themse lves ;  ins tead ,  on a round- the-c lock  basis ,  two operatorsac t  as in termed iar ies  between the  Navy staf f  and  the computers .
The ut i l i ty  of a 'natura l  l anguage in ter face  in such  an env i ronment  is c lear .The s tar t ing  po in t  for  deve lopment  of the  natura l  l anguage in ter face  system atthe  Paci f ic  F leet  Command Center  was the  IRUS system,  wh ich  has  been underdeve lopment  at BBN for  a number  of years .
A new vers ion  of th is  system, IRUS-86,has  been  ins ta l led  in the  FCCBMP tes tbed  area  at the Paci f ic  F leet  Command Center  fordemonst ra t ion .
Fur ther  bas ic  research  on the  prob lems of natura l  l anguagein ter fac ing  is cont inu ing ,  and  the  resu l t s  of th is  and fu ture  research  will beincorporated  into  a next  generat ion  natura l  l anguage in ter face  sys tem cal led JANUS, tobe de l ivered  to the Paci f ic  F leet  Command Center  at a la ter  date.
JANUS will sharemost  of its domain -dependent  data  with IRUS-86,  and it will share  o ther  modules  aswell; IRUS-86  will there fore  be able  to evolve gradua l ly  into the  f inal  vers ion  of JANUS.2 IRUS-86:  The In i t ia l  Test  Bed SystemThe arch i tec ture  of IRUS \ [Bates  83\] is a cascade  cons is t ing  of a sequence  oft rans la t ion  modules:o An ATN parser  which produces  a syntact i c  t ree.o A semant ic  in terpreter  which produces  a fo rmula  of the meaningrepresentat ion  language MRL.o A postprocessor  for  reso lv ing  anaphora  and el l ipsis.o A t rans la t ion  module which produces  a fo rmula  of the  re la t iona l  data  baselanguage ERL ( "Extended Re lat iona l  Language") .o A t rans la t ion  module which produces  a sequence  of commands  for  theunder ly ing  data  base  access  system.IRUS-86,  the vers ion  of IRUS which is now ins ta l led  at the  Pac i f ic  F leet CommandCenter ,  is a vers ion  of IRUS which is extended in severa l  ways.
Two of theseextens ions  are  espec ia l l y  wor th  ment ion ing:o IRUS-86  uses  the  NIKL sys tem \[Moser 83\] to  represent  i ts domain  model, i.e.,the  re la t ionsh ips  between the  pred icates  and re la t ions  of the  meaningrepresentat ion  language MRL.
The NIKL domain model suppor ts  the  sys tem'st reatment  of semant ic  anomaly,  anaphora ,  and  nomina l  compounds .BBN Laborator ies  Incorporatedo IRUS-86 conta ins  a new module which exploi ts  this NIKL domain model tosimplify MRL express ions;  this makes it possible to t rans la te  complex MRL-express ions  into ERL constants ,  thus  allowing for s igni f icant d ivergencesbetween the input  English and the s t ructure  of the under ly ing data base\ [Sta l lard 86\].In addition to accessing the NIKL domain model, the parser, semantic interpreterand MRL- to -ERL  translator access other knowledge sources which contain domain-dependent information:o the lexicon,o the semant ic  in terpretat ion  rules for individual  concepts ,o the MRL- to -ERL  mapping rules for individual MRL  constants, which introducethe details of underlying system structure, such as file and field names.To por t  IRUS to the navy domain, the re levant  domain -dependent  data  had to besuppl ied to the system.
This task  is being accompl ished by personne l  at the NavalOcean Systems Center  (NOSC).
In August, 1985, BBN prov ided NOSC with an initialp ro to type  system conta in ing small example sets of lexical  entr ies,  semant icin terpretat ion  rules,  and MRL-to-ERL rules; using acquis i t ion tools provided by BBN,NOSC personne l  have been enter ing  the res t  of the data.IRUS-86 was del ivered to the FRESH deve lopers  at Texas Ins t ruments  in January1986, was instal led in a test  bed area of the Pacif ic Fleet Command Center  in April1986, and will be demonst ra ted  in June 1986.
Current ly ,  the lexicon and the domain -dependent  ru les of the system only cover  a re lat ive ly  small par t  of the OSGPcapabi l i t ies and the files and a t t r ibutes  of the In tegrated  Data Base.
Once enoughdata have been entered  so that  the system covers  a suf f ic ient ly  large par t  of the database, it will be t r ied out in actual  use by Navy personne l .
This will enable us togather  data about  the way the system per forms in a real  environment,  and to f ine -tune the system in var ious  respects .
For instance,  IRUS-86 makes use of shallowheur is t ic  methods to address  some aspects  of natura l  language unders tand ing  such asanaphora  and ellipsis for which genera l  so lut ions are sti l l  research  issues.
TheFCCBMP appl icat ion prov ides a test  bed in which such heur i s t i c  methods can beevaluated,  and enhancements  to them developed and tested,  as par t  of theevo lut ionary  technolog ica l  growth in tended to cont inue throughout  the NaturalLanguage Technology ef fort  of the Strategic  Computing Program.3BBN Laboratories Incorporated3 Funct iona l  Goals for JANUSThe IRUS-86 system excels by its clean, modular structure, its broadsyntactic/semantic coverage, its sophisticated domain model, and its systematictreatment of discrepancies between the English lexicon and the data base structure.We thus expect that it will demonstrate considerable utility as an interface componentin the FCCBMP application.
Nevertheless, IRUS-86 shares with other current systemsseveral limitations which should be overcome if natural language interfaces are tobecome truly "natural".
In developing JANUS, the successor of IRUS-86, we shallattempt to overcome some of those limitations.
The areas of increased functionalitywe are considering are: semantics and knowledge representation, ill-formedness,discourse, cooperativeness, multiple underlying systems, and knowledge acquisition.3.1 Semantics and Knowledge RepresentationIRUS-86, like most o ther  cur rent  systems, represents  sentence  meanings asformulas of a logical language which is a sl ight extens ion  of f i r s t -o rder  logic.
As aconsequence ,  many impor tant  phenomena in English have no equivalent  in the meaningrepresentat ion  language,  and cannot  be dealt  with cor rect ly ,  e.g., modalit ies,p ropos i t iona l  a t t i tudes ,  gener ics ,  col lect ive quant i f icat ion,  and context -dependence .Thus, one foregoes  one of the most important  potent ia l  assets  of a natura l  languagein ter face:  the capac i ty  of express ing complex semantic  s t ruc tures  in a succ inct  andcomfortab le  way.In JANUS, we will there fore  adopt  a new meaning representat ion  language whichcombines features  from PHILIQAI's enr iched  lambda-ca lcu lus  \[Scha 76\] with ideasunder ly ing Montague's Intens ional  Logic \[Montague 70\], and possibly a d i s t r ibutedquote -operator  \[Haas 86\].
It will have suf f ic ient  express ive  power to incorporate  avers ion  of Car lson's t reatment  of gener ics  \[Carlson 79\], a vers ion  of Scha's t reatmentof quant i f i cat ion  \[Scha 81\], Montague's t reatment  of modality, and var ious possib leapproaches  to propos i t iona l  a t t i tudes  and context -dependence .In adopting a higher order logic as proposed, one confronts problems of formulasimplification and the need to apply meaning postulates to reduce the semanticrepresentation of an input sentence to an expression appropriate to the underlyingsystem, e.g., a relational algebra expression in the case that the underlying system isa data base.
To do this, we will investigate the limited inference mechanisms of KL-TWO \[Moser 83, Vilain 85\], following up on our previous work \[Stallard 86\].
Theadvantage of these inference mechanisms is their tractability; discovering their powerand limitations in this complex problem domain should be an interesting result.4BBN Laborator ies  Incorporated3.2 DiscourseThe mean ing  of a sentence  depends  in many ways  on the  context  which has  beenset  up by the  preced ing  d i scourse .
IRUS and  o ther  sys tems,  however ,  cur rent ly  ignoremost  of these  dependenc ies ,  and  employ  a ra ther  sha l low model  of d i scourse  s t ruc ture .To al low the  user  to exp lo i t  the  ful l  express ive  potent ia l  of a natura l  languagein teract ion ,  the  sys tem must  t rack  top ics ,  re fe rence  t imes,  poss ib le  antecedents  foranaphora ,  etc.
;  it  must  be able to recogn ize  the  const i tuent  un i ts  of a d i scourse  andthe  subord inat ion  or  coord inat ion  re la t ions  obta in ing  between them.
A substant ia lamount  of work  has  been  done a l ready  on severa l  of these  i ssues ,  much of it by  BBNresearchers  \ [S idner  85, H inr i chs  81, Po lany i  84, Grosz  86\].
Research  in th is  a reacont inues  under  a separate  DARPA- funded cont ract .
We.expect  to be able to in tegratesome of the  resu l t s  of that  research  in the  JANUS sys tem.3.3 M-formednessA natura l  in ter face  sys tem shou ld  be fo rg iv ing  of a user ' s  dev ia t ions  f rom itsexpectat ions ,  be they  misspe l l ings ,  typograph ica l  e r ro rs ,  unknown words ,  poor  syntax ,incor rect  p resuppos i t ions ,  f ragmentary  forms,  or  v io la ted  se lec t ion  res t r i c t ions .Empi r i ca l  s tud ies  show that  as much as 25% of the  input  to data  base  query  sys tems isi l l - fo rmed.IRUS cur rent ly  hand les  some c lasses  of i l l - fo ' rmedness  by us ing  a combinat ion  ofsha l low heur i s t i cs  and  user  in teract ion .
It  can  cor rec t  for  typograph ica l  misspe l l ings ,for  omi t ted  determiners  or  p repos i t ions ,  and  for  some ungrammat ica l i t ies ,  l ikedeterminer -noun and  sub jec t -verb  d i sagreement .
The JANUS sys tem will employ  amore  genera l  approach  to i l l - fo rmedness  that  will hand le  a la rger  c lass  ofungrammat ica l  const ruct ions  and  a la rger  c lass  of word  se lec t ion  prob lems,  and thatwill a lso exp lore  cor rec t ing  severa l  types  of semant ic  i l l - fo rmedness .These  capab i l i tes  have  major  imp l i ca t ions  for  the  cont ro l  of the  unders tand ingprocess ,  s ince  cons ider ing  such  poss ib i l i t i es  can  exponent ia l l y  expand the  searchspace .
Ma inta in ing  cont ro l  will requ i re  care  in in tegrat ing  the  i l l - fo rmednesscapab i l i ty  in to  the  res t  of the  sys tem,  and  a lso mak ing  maximal  use  of the  gu idancethat  can  be  der ived  f rom a model  of the  d i scourse  and  user ' s  goa ls  to const ra in  thesearch .3.4 CooperativenessA t ru ly  he lp fu l  sys tem shou ld  not  react  to the  l i te ra l  meaning of a sentence ,  butto i ts  perce ived  in tent .
If in the  context  of a g iven  app l i ca t ion  it is poss ib le  tocharacter i ze  the  goa ls  that  a user  may be expected  to be pursu in$  through hisin teract ion  with the  sys tem,  the  sys tem shou ld  t ry  to  in fe r  f rom the  user - input  whatthe  under ly ing  goa l  cou ld  be.
A sys tem can  do th i s  by  access ing  a goa l - subgoa l5BBN Laboratories Incorporatedhierarchy which links the speech acts expressed by individual utterances to the globalgoals that the user may have.
This strategy has been applied successfully to rathersmall domains \[Allen 83, Sidner 85\].
We wish to investigate whether it carries over tothe FCCBMP applications.3.5 Modelling the Capabilities o_.f Multiple SystemThe way in which IRUS-86 decides whether an input sentence translates into anIDB query or an OSGP command may be refined.
There is a need for work on whatkind of knowledge would be necessary to interface smoothly and intelligently tomultiple underlying systems.
A reasoning component is needed that can determinewhich underlying system or systems can best fulfill a user's request.
Such areasoning component would have to combine a model of the capabilites of theunderlying systems with a model of the user goals and current intentions in thediscourse context in order to choose the correct system(s).
Such a model would alsobe useful for providing supporting information to the user.3.8 Knowledge AcquisitionFur ther  research  is also ca l led for  to expand the  power  of the  knowledgeacqu is i t ion  too ls  that  a re  used  in add ing to the  lex icon,  the  set  of case  f rame ru les ,the~mode l  of domain  pred icates ,  and  the set  of t rans format ion  ru les  between theMeaning Representat ion  Language and the languages  of the  under ly ing  systems.
Theacqu is i t ion  too ls  ava i lab le  in IRUS, un l ike those  in some other  systems,  are  not  t ied  tothe spec i f ic  f ie lds and re la t ions  in the  under ly ing  database .
The acqu is i t ion  too lsshou ld  work  on the  h igher  level of the  domain  model, s ince that  p rov ides  a moregenera l  and t ranspor tab le  resu l t .
The knowledge acqu is i t ion  fac i l i t ies  for  JANUS willalso need  to be redes igned  to suppor t  and to make maximal use of the  power  of thenew mean ing  representat ion  language based  on in tens iona l  logic.4 New Underlying Technologies4.1 Coping with Ambigui tyThe new funct iona l i t ies  we descr ibed  in the  prev ious  sect ion ,  and  the  techn iqueswe in tend  to use to ach ieve  them, ra i se  an i ssue  which has  impor tant  consequencesfor  the  des ign  of JANUS: we will be faced  with an exp los ion  in the  number  ofin terpreta t ions  that  the  system will have  to process ;  every  sentence  will be mani fo ldambiguous .
One source  of th is  phenomenon is the improvement  of the  semant iccoverage  and  the  broaden ing  of the d i scourse  context .
D is t inc t ions  and ambigu i t ieswhich so far  were ignored  will be dea l t  with: for  ins tance ,  d i f fe rent  in terpreta t ion  and6BBN Laborator ies  Incorporatedscopes  of quant i f ie rs  will be cons idered ,  and  d i f fe rent  antecedents  for  pronouns.
Evenmore ser ious  is the  process ing  of i l l - fo rmed sentences ,  which may requ i re  t ry ing  outall par t ia l  in te rpreta t ions  to see which one can  be extended to a completein terpreta t ion  a f te r  re lax ing  one or more const ra in ts .To cut down on the processing of spurious interpretations, it is very importantthat interpretations of sentences and their constituents be tested for plausibility atan early stage.
Different techniques must probably be used in conjunction:o Simplification transformations may show that an interpretation is absurd, byreducing it to TRUE or FALSE or the empty set.o The d i scourse  context  and the model of the  user ' s  goals  impose const ra in tson expected  sentences .4.2 Para l le l  ParsingSince some of the techn iques  that  we in tend  to use to f ight the ambigu i tyexp los ion  are  themse lves  ra ther  computat ion - in tens ive ,  it is c lear ly  unavo idab le  thatthe  improved  sys tem funct iona l i ty  that  we aim for  will lead to a cons iderab le  inc reasein the  amount  of p rocess ing  requ i red .
To avoid a ser ious  decrease  of the newsys tem's  response  t imes, we will there fore  move it to a su i tab le  para l le l  mach ine  suchas BBN's But ter f ly  or  Monarch,  runn ing  a para l le l  Common Lisp.
This in i tself  hasra ther  ser ious  consequences  for  the so f tware  design.
It means that  from the  outsetwe will keep  para l le l i zab i l i ty  of the so f tware  in mind.We have  begun to address  th is  issue in the  area  of syntax .
A new dec la ra t ivegrammar  is being wr i t ten ,  which will u l t imate ly  have a coverage  of Engl ish la rger  thanthe  cur rent  RUS grammar ;  the grammar  is wr i t ten  in a s ide -e f fec t - f ree  formal ism (acontext - f ree  grammar  with var iab les )  so that  d i f fe rent  pars ing  a lgor i thms may beexp lored  which are  eas i ly  para l le l i zab le .
The f i rs t  such  a lgor i thm was implemented inMay 1986 on BBN's Butter f ly .5 Contributions from Other Sites5.1 ISI/UMass: GenerationWe shou ld  not  expect  that  JANUS will a lways be able to assess  cor rec t ly  whichin terpreta t ion  of a sentence  is the in tended one.
In l ight of such  s i tuat ions ,  it isvery  impor tant  that  the  system can give a paraphrase  of the input  to the user ,  whichshows the  sys tem's  in terpreta t ion .
This may be done  e i ther  expl ic i t ly  or as par t  ofthe  answer .
To be able to deve lop such  capab i l i t ies ,  work on Natura l  LanguageGenerat ion  is needed.
At USC/ISI a p ro jec t  d i rec ted  by William Mann and  Norman7BBN Laborator ies  IncorporatedSondheimer  is underway to develop the generat ion  system PENMAN, using the NIGELsystemic grammar.
PENMAN will be in tegrated  to become the generat ion  component  ofJANUS.
PENMAN itself consists  of severa l  subcomponents .
Some of these,  specif ical lythe " text  planning" component,  will be developed through joint work between USC/ISIand David McDonald at the Univers i ty  of Massachusetts ,  based on the far ter 'sexper ience  with the MUMBLE system.5.2 UPenn: Cooperat ion and Clar i f icat ionUnder  the d i rect ion of Aravind Joshi and Bonnie Webber at the Univers i ty ofPennsy lvan ia ,  several  focussed s tud ies  have been car r ied  out to invest igate var iousaspects  of cooperat ive  system behav iour  and c lar i f icat ion in teract ions .
(For moredetai l ,  see the i r  paper  in this issue.)
As par t  of the St rateg ic  Computing NaturalLanauge effort ,  UPenn will eventua l ly  develop this into a module which can bein tegrated  into JANUS to fu r ther  enhance  its capabi l i t ies.BBN Laborator ies IncorporatedReferences[Allen 83][Bates 83][Carlson 79][Grosz 86][Haas 86][Hinrichs 81][Montague 70][Moser 83][Polanyi 84]Allen, J.F.Recognizing Intent ions from Natural  Language Utterances.In M. Brady and R.C.
Berwick (editors),  Computational Models ofDiscourse, pages 107-166.
Massachusetts  Inst i tute TechnologyPress, 1983.Bates, M. and Bobrow, R.J.A Transportable Natural Language Inter face for Information Retrieval.In Proceedings of the 6th Annual  In ternat iona l  ACM SIGIR Conference.ACM Special Interest  Group on Information Retrieval and AmericanSociety for Information Science, Washington, D.C., June, 1983.Carlson, G.Reference to Kinds in English.Garland Press, New York, 1979.Grosz, B.J.
and Sidner, C.L.The St ructures  of Discourse St ructure .In L. Polanyi (editor), Discourse St ructure .
Ablex Publishers, Norwood,NJ, 1986.Haas, A.R.A Syntact ic  Theory of Belief and Action.Art i f ic ia l  Intel l igence , 1986.Forthcoming.Hinrichs, E.Temporale Anaphora im Englischen.1981.Unpublished ms., University of Tuebingen.Montague, R.Pragmatics and Intensional  Logic.Synthese  22:68-94, 1970.Moser, M.G.An Overview of NIKL, the New Implementat ion of KL-ONE.In Sidner, C. L., et al (editors),  Research in Knowledge Representat ionfor  Natura l  Language Unders tand ing  - Annual  Report, f September1982 - 31 August  1983, pages 7-26.
BBN Laborator ies Report No.5421, 1983.Polanyi, L. and Scha, R.A Syntact ic  Approach to Discourse Semantics.In Proceedings of Int'l.
Conference on Computational L inguist ics.Stanford University, Stanford,  CA, 1984.BBN Laborator ies  Incorporated\[Scha 76\]\[Scha 81\]\[Sidner 85\]\ [Stal lard 86\]\[Vilain 85\]Scha, R.J.tI.Semantic Types in PHLIQA1.In Proceedings of the 6th In ternat iona l  Conference on ComputationalL inguist ics.
1978.Scha, R.J.H.Distributive, Collective and Cumulative Quanti f icat ion.Formal Methods in the S tudy  of Language, Part  2.Mathematisch Centrum, Amsterdam, 1981, pages 483-512.Reprinted in: J.A.G.
Groenendijk,  T.M.V.
Janssen and M.B.J.
Stokhof(editors).
Truth, In terpretat ion  and Information.
GRASS 3.Dordrecht,  Foris, 1984.Sidner, C.L.Plan parsing for in tended response recognit ion in discourse.Computational Intel l igence 1(1):1-10, February,  1985.Stal lard, D.G.A Terminological Simplif ication Transformat ion for Natural  LanguageQuest ion-Answering Systems.In Proceedings of the 24th Annual  Meeting of the Associat ion forComputational L inguist ics .
Associat ion for Computat ionalLinguistics, June, 1986.Vilain, M.The Restr icted Language Arch i tecture  of a Hybrid Representat ionSystem.In Proceedings of IJCAI85, pages 547-551.
In ternat iona l  JointConferences on Artif icial Intel l igence, Inc., Morgan KaufmannPubl ishers,  Inc., Los Angeles, CA, August, 1985.10
