Out of the  Laboratory:A Case Study with the  IRUS Natural  Language Inter face IbyRalph M. Weischedel, Edward Walker, Damaris Ayuso, Jos de Bruin,Kimberle Koile, Lance Ramshaw, Varda ShakedBBN Laboratories Inc.I0 Moulton St.Cambridge, MA 02238AbstractAs part of DARPA's Strategic Computing Program, we have moved a large naturallanguage system out of the laboratory.
This involved:o Delivery of knowledge acquis i t ion  software to the Naval Ocean SystemsCenter  (NOSC) to build l inguist ic knowledge bases, such as d ic t ionary  ent r iesand case frames,o Demonstrat ion of the natura l  language in ter face  in a naval  dec is ion -mak ingsett ing,  ando Del ivery of the in ter face  software to Texas Instruments,  which has in tegratedit into the total  software package of the Strategic  Computing Fleet CommandCenter  Battle Management Program (FCCBMP).The resu l t ing  natura l  language in ter face  will be del ivered to the Pacif ic Fleet CommandCenter in Hawaii.This paper  is an overview of th is  ef fort  in technology t rans fer ,  indicat ing thetechno logy  features  that  have made this possible and ref lect ing upon what theexper ience  i l lust rates  regard ing t ranspor tab i l i ty ,  techno logy status ,  and del ivery ofnatura l  language process ing outs ide of a laboratory  sett ing.
The paper  will be mostva luable to those engaged in applying s ta te -o f - the -ar t  techn iques  to del iver natura llanguage in ter faces  and to those  in teres ted  in developing the next  generat ion  ofcomplete natura l  language in ter faces .1The work presented here was supported under DARPA contract ~NOOe14.-85-C--e616.
The viewsand conclusions contained in th i s  document ore those of the authors and should not be~nterpreted  as necessar i ly  represent ing the o f f i c ia l  po l i c ies ,  e i ther  expressed or impl ied,of the Defense Advanced Research Pro jects  Agency or of the United States  Government.441 IntroductionDARPA's Strategic Computing Program in the application area of Navy BattleManagement  has provided us several challenges and opportunities in natural languageprocessing research and development.
At the beginning of the effort, a set ofdomain- independent software components, developed through fundamental researchefforts dating back as much as seven years, existed.
The IRUS software \[1\] consists oftwo subsystems: one for linguistic processing and one for adding specifics of the backend.
The first subsystem is linguistic in nature, while the second subsystem is not.Linguistic processing includes morphological, syntactic, semantic, and discourseanalysis to generate a formula in logic corresponding to the meaning of an Englishinput.
The linguistic subsystem is application-independent and also independent ofdata base interfaces.
(This is achieved by factoring all application specifics into theback end processor or into knowledge bases such as dictionary entries and case framerules, that are domain-specific.)
The non-linguistic components convert the logicalform to the code necessary for a given underlying system, such as a relational database.The IRUS system,  or  i ts components ,  had  been  used  extens ive ly  in the  laboratory ,not  jus t  at  BBN, but  also in research  pro jec ts  at USC/ In fo rmat ion  Sc iences  Ins t i tu te ,the  Un ivers i ty  of Delaware,  GTE Research ,  and Genera l  Motors  Research .
However,  ithad  not  been  exerc i sed  thorough ly  outs ide  of a research  env i ronment .Our goa ls  in par t i c ipat ing  in the  S t ra teg ic  Comput ing Program are  manifold:o To tes t  the  co l lec t ion  of s ta te -o f - the -ar t  heur i s t i cs  for  natura l  l anguageprocess ing  with a user  communi ty  t ry ing  to solve the i r  p rob lems on a daffybas is .o To tes t  the  heur i s t i cs  on a broad ,  extens ive  domain.o To incorporate  research  ideas  (which are  o f ten  deve loped  in re la t ivei so la t ion  in the  laboratory )  in to  a complete  sys tem so that  ef fect iveeva luat ion  and re f inement  can  occur .o To cont inue  the feedback  loop of incorporat ing  new research  ideas,  tes t ingthem in a complete  sys tem with rea l  users ,  eva luat ing  the  resu l t s ,  andre f in ing  the  research  accord ing ly  on a repeated  bas is  for  severa l  years .There  are  severa l  accompl i shments  in the  f i r s t  year  and  a hal f  of th is  work.F i rs t ,  the  IRUS so f tware  has  been  de l ivered  to the  Naval Ocean Systems Center  (NOSC)so that  the i r  team may encode  the  d ic t ionary  in fo rmat ion ,  case  f rame ru les,  andt rans format ion  ru les  for  generat ing  quer ies  appropr ia te  for  the under ly ing  systems.The NOSC staf f  involves a l ingu is t  p lus  ind iv idua ls  t ra ined  in computer  sc ience,  but45does not  involve exper ts  in natura l  language process ing  nor  in art i f ic ia l  intel l igence.Second, the  natura l  language in ter face  software has been de l ivered to TexasIns t ruments  (TI), which has integrated it into the Force Requirements Expert System(FRESH).
Demonstrat ions of the natura l  language in ter face  are being given at severalconferences  this  year  as well as to the  navy personne l  at the Pacif ic F leet CommandCenter .
Testing and evaluat ion of IRUS, both  its software and the knowledge basesdef ined by NOSC for the FCCBMP, will be car r ied  out in the spr ing of 1956, by the NavyPersonne l  Research and Development Center.In this sect ion and sect ion two we present  ev idence that  this is one of the mostambit ious appl icat ions and tes ts  of natura l  language process ing ever  attempted.Sect ion two provides more background regard ing the techn ica l  chal lenges inherent  inthe appl icat ion envi ronment  and in the goals of the Strategic  Computing Program.Sect ion three  descr ibes  what was changed in each system component  o suppor t  thetechno logy  t rans fer .
Sect ion four  p resents  and i l lus t rates  the pr inc ip les  that  havebeen underscored  in moving this substant ia l  AI system from the laboratory  to use;while some pr inc ip les may appear  like common sense, repor t ing  on all the  exper ienceshould be valuable to fu ture  ef forts .
Sect ion five br ief ly  d iscusses possible fu tured i rect ions ,  while sect ion six s tates  our  conclus ions.2 Background Constraints and GoalsThe following sect ions summarize severa l  const ra in ts  and goals which have madethis  not  only a demanding chal lenge for  natura l  language process ing but also anambit ious demonst ra t ion  of the f ru i t  of AI research .2.1 Multiple Underlying SystemsThe decis ion suppor t  env i ronment  of the Fleet Command Center  BattleManagement Program (FCCBMP) involves a suite of dec is ion-mak ing  tools.
A substant ia ldata  base is at the core  of those tools  and inc ludes roughly 40 re la t ions  and 250fields.
In addit ion, appl icat ion programs for drawing and displaying maps, var iousca lcu la t ions  and addit ional  dec is ion suppor t  capabi l i t ies are prov ided in theOperat ions  Support  Group Prototype  (OSGP).
In a paral le l  par t  of the StrategicComputing Program, two exper t  systems are  being provided: the Force RequirementsExper t  System (FRESH) and the Capabi l i t ies Assessment Expert  System (CASES).
TI isbui lding the FRESH exper t  system; the  cont ract  for the CASES exper t  system has notbeen  awarded as of the writing of th is  paper .The ta rget  users  are navy commanders  involved in decis ion making at the Pacif ic46F leet  Command Center; these  are  top- leve l  execut ives  whose energy  is bes t  spent  onnavy  prob lems and dec is ion making  ra ther  than  on the  deta i l s  of wh ich  of fourunder ly ing  sys tems o f fe rs  a g iven in fo rmat ion  capab i l i ty ,  on how to  d iv ide a prob lemin to  the  var ious  in fo rmat ion  capab i l i t i es  requ i red  and  how to  synthes ize  the  resu l tsi n to  the  des i red  answer .
Cur rent ly  they  do not  access  the  data  base  or  OSGPapp l i ca t ion  programs themse lves ;  ra ther ,  on a round- the-c lock  bas is ,  two operatorsa re  ava i lab le  as  in termed ia tes  between commander  and  computer .
Consequent ly ,  theneed  fo r  a natura l  language in ter face  (NLI) is Paramount .2.2 The Need For Transportabi l i tyThere  are  three  ways  that  t ranspor tab i l i ty  has  been  abso lu te ly  requ i red  fo r  thenatura l  language in ter face .
F i rs t ,  s ince  we had  no exper ience  prev ious ly  wi th  th i sapp l i ca t ion  domain ,  and  s ince  the  schedu le  for  demonst ra t ions  and  de l ivery  was h igh lyambi t ious ,  on ly  the  app l i ca t ion - independent  so f tware  cou ld  be  brought  to  bear  on theprob lem in i t ia l ly ;  there fore ,  t ranspor tab i l i ty  across  app l i ca t ion  domains  was  requ i red .Second,  the  under ly ing  sys tems have  been and  will cont inue  to  be  evolv ing.
Forins tance ,  the  data  base  s t ruc ture  is be ing  modi f ied both  to  suppor t  add i t iona lin fo rmat ion  needs  for  the  new exper t  sys tems and  to prov ide  shor ter  response  t ime inserv ice  of human requests  and  exper t  sys tem requests  to the  data  base .Third,  the  ta rget  output  of the  natura l  language in ter face  is sub jec t  to change.For  ins tance ,  the  capab i l i t i es  of FRESH are  be ing  deve loped in para l le l  w i th  thenatura l  language in ter face  and  the  CASES exper t  sys tem has  not  been  s tar ted  as ofth i s  date .
In teres t ing ly  enough,  the  ta rget  language for  the  data  base  cou ld  changeas  well.
For  ins tance ,  there  is the  poss ib i l i ty  of rep lac ing  the  ORACLE data  basemanagement  sys tem with a data  base  mach ine ,  in which case  the  ta rget  language wouldchange though the  app l i ca t ion  and  data  base  s t ruc ture  remained  constant  dur ing  theper iod  of ins ta l l ing  the  data  base  mach ine .2.3 Techno logy  TestbedThe pro jec t  has  two goa ls  wh ich  at  f i r s t  seem to conf l i c t .
F i rs t ,  the  so f twaremust  be hardened enough to be an  a id in the  da i ly  operat ions  of the  F leet  CommandCenter .
Second,  the  de l ivered  sys tems are  to be a tes tbed  fo r  research  resu l t s ;feedback  f rom use  of the  sys tems is to  p rov ide  a sol id empi r i ca l  base  fo r  suggest ingnew areas  of research  and  re f inement  of ex i s t ing  research .As a consequence ,  so f tware  eng ineer ing  demands  p laced  upon the  AI so f tware  arequ i te  r igorous .
The arch i tec ture  of the  so f tware  must  suppor t  h igh  qua l i ty ,  wellWorked out ,  non- toy  sys tems.
The so f tware  must  a lso suppor t  substant ia l  evo lu t ion  in477the heuristics and methods employed as natural language processing provides newresearch ideas that can be incorporated.3 Adequacy of the ComponentsIn this section we present a brief analysis of the adequacy of the variouscomponents in the system, given that the software had not been built with this domainin mind (but had been built with transportability in mind) and given that one of thegoals of the effort is to provide a flexible technological base allowing evolution of thetechniques and heuristics employed.3.1 Knowledge RepresentationAt the  s tar t  of the  pro jec t ,  the  under ly ing  knowledge  representat ion  cons is ted  ofa h ie rarchy  of concepts  (unary  pred icates ) ,  a l ist  of funct ions  on ins tances  of thoseconcepts ,  and  a l is t  of n -a ry  pred icates .
The knowledge  representat ion  served  severa lpurposes :o To identify the predicate symbols and function symbols that could be used inthe first order logic representing the meaning of sentences,o To validate selection restrictions (case frame constraints) during the parsingprocess.Early on we concluded that greater inference capabilities were required.
We wanted tobe able to:o State  and  reason  about  knowledge  of b inary  re la t ionsh ips .
For  ins tance ,every  vesse l  has  an arb i t ra ry  number  of overa l l  read iness  ra t ings  assoc ia tedwi th  it, cor respond ing  to the  h i s to ry  of i t s  read iness .o Represent  events  and  s ta tes  of a f fa i r s  f lex ib ly .
There  may be a var iab lenumber  of a rguments  expressed  in the  input  for  a g iven  event .
Forins tance ,  Admira l  Fo ley  dep loyed  the E i senhower  yesterday  or  Admira l  Fo leydep loyed  the E i senhower  C3.
2 Also, we needed to be ab le  to countoccur rences  of events  or  s ta tes  of a f fa i r s  over  h i s to ry ,  as  in How manyt imes was  the the E i senhower  C3 ire the last  12 months?
Consequent ly ,  wehave  chosen  to represent  events  and  s ta tes  of a f fa i r s  as ent i t ies ,  wh ichpar t i c ipate  in a number  of b inary  re la t ionsh ips ,  for  ins tance ,  spec i fy ing  theagent ,  t ime,  locat ion ,  etc .
of the  event .There fore ,  the  in i t ia l  ad hoc  knowledge  representat ion  fo rmal i sm was rep laced  wi th  amore  genera l  f ramework ,  NIKL \[10\], the  new implementat ion  of KL-ONE.
This met  theneeds  s ta ted  above ,  and  a lso prov ided  in fe rence  mechan isms \[15\] wh ich  cou ld  serve  as2C3 is an overal l  readiness rat ing.48a partial consistency checker on the axioms for the navy domain.
Of course, there areother ways to achieve the 'goals above.
However, NIKL was available, and this would beits first use in a technology transfer effort, providing us the opportunity to furtherexplore the power and limitations of limited inference systems.In NIKL, one can state the classes of entities, the binary relations betweenentities (including functional relationships), subclass relationships, and subsumptionrelations among binary relations.
It is now used to support:o The validation of selection restrictions during the parsing process,o Proposal of possible case frame constraints and possible predicates by thesemantic knowledge acquisition component,o Proposal of the meaning of vague relationships, such as "have", ando The mapping from first-order logic to relational data base queries.Once the more powerful knowledge representation and inference mechanisms \[15\] wereavailable to IRUS, we began using them in unanticipated ways, for instance, the lastthree in the list above.3.2 The Lexicon and GrammarThe current grammar  (RUS) \[2\] and lexicon are based on the ATN formalism \[23\].Though RUS was designed to be a general g rammar  of dialogue and was clearly amonga handful of implemented grammars having the broadest coverage of English, thequestion was how much modification would be needed for the Navy domain, which wastotally new to us.Very  few changes  were  needed to  the  so f tware  that  suppor ts  the  lex icon  andmorpho log ica l  ana lys i s .
Those that  were  requ i red  centered  around spec ia l  mi l i ta ryfo rms,  such  as a l lowing 06Mar86 as  a date  and  0600z  as a t ime.
Spec ia l  symbo ls  andcodes  such  as  those  are  bound to  a r i se  in many app l i ca t ions ,  no mat ter  howt ranspor tab le  the  so f tware  is.Very few modifications to the grammar  had to be made; those that have beenmade thus far correspond to special forms and have required very little effort to add.Examples include military (and European) versions of dates, such as 6 MaTch 1986.This is not to claim that everything a navy user types will be parsed; fully generaltreatments for conjunction, gapping, and ellipsis, are still research issues for us, asfor everyone else.
Rather, the experience testifies to the fact that domain-independent grammars can be written for natural language interfaces and thatmodification of them for a new application can be very small.
Sager \[12\] has reported49that few rules of the Linguistic String Parser need to be changed when it is moved to?
a new application.The current system handles several classes of ill-formed input, includingtypographical errors that result in an unknown word; omitted words such asdeterminers and prepositions; various grammatical errors such as subject verbdisagreement and determiner noun disagreement; case errors in using pronouns; andelliptical inputs.
The strategy is that of \[21\].3.3 Semantic InterpretationThough the software for the semantic interpreter did not depend on domainspecifics, the limitations of the initial knowledge representation formalism and of theclass of linguistic expressions for which it could compute a semantic representationmeant that the semantic interpreter had to be substantially changed.
First, thesemantic interpreter was modified to take advantage of the stronger knowledgerepresentation formalism and inference available in NIKL.
For instance, theinterpreter must compute the semantic representation for descriptions of events andstates of affairs.
It now finds the interpretation of X has Y by looking for a relationin the knowledge representation between X and Y.Second, the semantic interpreter has been changed to correspond more and moreto general linguistic analysis.
One strength of the initial version of the semanticinterpreter \[I\] was its ability to handle idiomatic expressions, such as blue /orees.Blue /orces refers to U.S. forces, as opposed to forces that are blue (in color).
Thesemantic interpreter has been generalized now so that it is much easier to capturethe general meaning of blue as a predicate, as well as allowing for specification ofidiomatic expressions, such as blue /orces.A major focus in the next year will be continuing modification of the semanticinterpreter so that we have a fully compositional semantics and an intensional logic,rather than a first order logic as the meaning representation of a given sentence.The compositional semantics will still allow, of course, for idiomatic expressions.
Theenhanced semantic interpreter will be applicable to a much broader class of Englishexpressions, while still being domain- independent and driven by domain--specific caseframe rules.The semant ic  in terpreter  does  not  al low for  semant ic  i l l - fo rmedness  at  p resent ;remov ing  th i s  res t r i c t ion  is a h igh pr io r i ty  research  area .503.4 Discourse PhenomenaSince discourse analysis is the least understood area in natural languageprocessing, the discourse processing component  in the system is limited.
The systemhandles anaphora based on the class of the entity required by the selectionrestrictions upon the anaphor.
A benefit of the change in representation makingevents and states of affairs entities is that the simple heuristic above allows theanaphor in each of the following sequences to be correctly understood:o The E i senhower  was  dep loyed  C2.
When d id  that  OCCUT?0 The E i senhower  had  been C3.
Ffhen was  that?El l ipt ica l  inputs  that  a re  noun phrases  or  p repos i t iona l  phrases  are  hand led  asfol lows: If the  c lass  of the  ent i ty  inherent  in the  e l l ip t i ca l  input  is cons is tent  w i th  ac lass  in the  prev ious  input ,  the  semant ic  representat ion  of the  new ent i ty  issubst i tu ted  for  the  semant ic  representat ion  in the  prev ious  input .
If not ,  the  e l l ips isis in terpreted  as a request  to d i sp lay  the  appropr ia te  in fo rmat ion .Far  more  soph is t i ca ted  d i scourse  process ing  is a h igh  pr io r i ty  not  on ly  for  ourp ro jec t  but  for  natura l  language work  a l together .3.5 In t roduc ing  Back  end SpecificsThe resu l t  of l ingu is t i c  p rocess ing  in IRUS is a fo rmula  in logic.
Anothercomponent  t rans la tes  the  log ica l  express ion  represent ing  the  mean ing  of an input  in toan  express ion  in an  abst rac t  re la t iona l  a lgebra .
S imple opt imizat ion  of the  resu l t ingexpress ion  is per fo rmed in the  same component .
The in i t ia l  vers ion  of that  component(MRLtoERL) \[17\] used  loca l  t rans format ions  to t rans la te  the  n -ary  pred icates  of thelogic  in to  the  appropr ia te  sequence  of p ro jec t ions ,  jo ins ,  etc .
on f i les and  f ie lds of thedata  base .A s t ra ight fo rward ,  syntax -d i rec ted  code  generator  t rans la tes  the  abst rac tre la t iona l  express ion  into  the  query  language requ i red  by  the  under ly ing  data  basemanagement  sys tem.
Code generators  have  been bu i l t  fo r  Sys tem 1022, the  Br i t ton -Lee Data  Base Machine,  and  ORACLE.
An exper ienced  person  needs  on ly  two to  th reeweeks  to c reate  the  code  generator .With the move to NIKL and the representation of events and states of affairs asconcepts participating in binary relations, the context-free translation of predicatesto expressions in relational algebra was no longer adequate.
However, the limitedinference mechanism \[15\] of NIKL formed a basis for a simplifier \[18\] as a preprocess51to the  MRLtoERL component  so that  the t rans la t ion  from logic to re lat iona l  a lgebracould stil l be done using only local  t rans format ions .
Fur thermore ,  the simplif ierenab led  genera l  t rans la t ion  of l inguist ic  express ions  whose data  base s t ructure  bearsl i t t le resemblance to the conceptua l  s t ruc ture  of the  English query  \[18\].
We bel ievethe  simplif ication techn iques  can be genera l i zed  fu r ther  to suppor t  the simplif icationof a subc lass  of express ions  in the  intens iona l  ogic to be generated  by the p lannedsemant ic  in terpreter  \[19\].In t roduct ion  of back end speci f ics for  the OSGP appl icat ion package and theFRESH exper t  system is hand led by an ad hoc t rans la tor  from logic to ta rget  code atp resent .3.6 Linguist ic Knowledge Acquisit ionIRUS's four knowledge bases  are:o The lexicon, which s ta tes  syntact i c  and morphological  informat ion,o The taxonomy of case frame rules,o The model of p red icates  in the  domain, s ta ted  in NIKL, ando The t rans format ion  rules for  mapping pred icates  in the logic intopro ject ions ,  joins, etc.
of f ields in the data  base.The f i rst  two of these are l inguist ic knowledge bases;  soph is t i ca ted  acquis i t ion toolsa re  avai lable to aid the system bui lder ,  though not  necessar i l y  t ra ined  in AI, to buildthe necessary  l inguistic knowledge about  the vocabulary .Powerful  knowledge acquis i t ion tools for building these  domain-spec i f i cconst ra in ts  could great ly  ease the process  of br inging up a natura l  language in ter facefor  a new appl icat ion and consequent ly  for b roaden ing  the appl icabi l i ty of NLItechno logy.
Perhaps  the most powerful  demonst ra t ion  of acquis i t ion tools  to date hasbeen TEAM \[6\].
Based on the f ields and files of a given data  base, TEAM's acquis i t iontools  lead the individual th rough a sequence  of quest ions  to acqui re  the specif icl inguist ic  and domain knowledge needed to unders tand  a broad subset  of language forquery ing the data base.
However, s ince those  heur i s t i cs  are in large par t  specif ic tothe  task  of accessing data  bases,  that  techno logy  could not  be d i rec t ly  applied to theFCCBMP appl icat ion, which encompasses  a re lat iona l  data  base, an appl icat ion packageincluding both map drawing and ca lcu lat ion,  and exper t  systems.Knowledge acquis i t ion tools for IRUS, developed under  ear l ie r  DARPA-funded workat  BBN, were not specif ic to data  base appl icat ions and there fore  could be appl ied inthe  FCCBMP.
Even if appl icabi l i ty  of the TEAM heur i s t i cs  were not  a problem, there52are theoretical and technical difficulties in translating English requests into data basequeries \[9\] which would argue for a more general approach such as ours.
As Scha\[13, 14\] has argued, these difficulties, as well as the issues of transportability andgenerality, suggest keeping linguistic knowledge rather independent of assumptionsabout the back end.IRACQ, the  semant ic  acqu is i t ion  too l  made ava i lab le  to NOSC for  spec i fy ing  casef rames  and  the i r  assoc ia ted  t rans la t ions ,  is qu i te  power fu l .
The in i t ia l  vers ion  \[11\]a l lowed one to  spec i fy  the  case  f rame fo r  a new word  sense  by  giving an  example  of aphrase  us ing  that  word  sense .
For  ins tance ,  if the admiral ,  a vesse l ,  and C2 areknown to the  sys tem,  then  one can  def ine a new case  f rame fo r  deploy  by giv ing aphrase  such  as  the admira l  dep loyed  a vesse l  C2.
The sys tem suggests  genera l i za t ionsof the  arguments  spec i f ied  in the  example  us ing  the  NIKL knowledge  base ,  so that  thein fe r red  case  f rame is the  most  genera l  that  the  user  author i zes .
For  example ,genera l i za t ions  of admira l  a re  commanding  of f icer ,  person ,  and  phys ica l  ob ject ;genera l i za t ions  of vesse l  a re  un i t ,  p la t fo rm,  and  phys ica l  ob jec t ;  genera l i za t ions  of C2are  ra t ing  and  code.
Fur thermore ,  based  on the  in t roduct ion  of the  more  genera lknowledge  representat ion  sys tem NIKL, IRACQ is be ing  extended to propose  the  b inaryre la t ions  that  might  be  par t  of the  t rans la t ion  of the  new word.
Of course ,  if there la t ions  and  concepts  needed are  not  a l ready  present  in the  domain  pred icate  model ,the  user  can  def ine  new concepts  and  re la t ions  in the  NIKL h ie rarchy  as well.The ava i lab i l i ty  of such  knowledge  acqu is i t ion  too ls  has  made it poss ib le  for  NOSCrepresentat ives ,  ra ther  than  AI exper ts ,  to  def ine  the  nava l  language expected  asinput .
We have  found that  even  with the  too l  descr ibed  above ,  reasonab le  l ingu is t i csoph is t i ca t ion  is very  he lp fu l  in def in ing the  case  f rames .
In fac t ,  an ind iv idua l  with amaster ' s  degree  in l ingu is t i cs  is def in ing the  case  f rames  at  NOSC.
More soph is t i ca tedtoo ls ,  wh ich  do not  p resuppose  on ly  one k ind  of back  end,  a re  one of the  mostimpor tant  research  top ics  for  natura l  language in ter faces .
These  would combine  thes t rengths  of the  l ingu is t i c  knowledge  acqu is i t ion  too ls  of both  IRUS and  TEAM.4 Principles UnderscoredIn the  course  of the  e f fo r t ,  a number  of p r inc ip les  have  been underscored .
Manyof these  once  s ta ted  may appear  to be common sense ;  however ,  we hope  thati l l us t ra t ing  them f rom our  exper ience  will p rove  he lp fu l .534.1 The Necess i ty  For  Genera l  So lu t ionstThe availability of domain- independent software driven by domain-dependent,declarative knowledge bases was of paramount  importance because of the following:o The application was not only broad (three underlying systems) but alsoevolving (with a fourth system to be added).o Great habitability is necessary for delivery to the Pacific Fleet CommandCenter.o The time frame for demonstration was relatively short compared to the scopeof the underlying systems to be covered.Furthermore, it is critical that the knowledge bases state a linguistic or domain factonce and that the domain- independent software be able to use that one fact in allpredictable linguistic variations.
The reasons are obvious: the efficiency in buildingthe knowledge bases, the consistency of stating a fact only once, and the habitabilityof the resulting system which can understand things no matter what form they areexpressed in.
3The IRUS sys tem at ta ins  the  goa l  ment ioned  above  re la t ive ly  well; a l ingu is t ic  orapp l i ca t ion  const ra in t  is s ta ted  once  in the  knowledge  base  but  app l ied  in all poss ib leways  in the  language process ing .
This is par t i cu la r ly  t rue  because  of the  substant ia lg rammar  \[2, 3\] and  to a lesser  extent  due  to  the" semant ic  in terpreter .
Recogn i t ion  ofth i s  fac t  is par t  of the  reason  that  substant ia l  changes ,  as  ment ioned  in sect ionthree ,  a re  p lanned in the  semant ic  in terpreter  to make the  l ingu is t i c  fac ts  that  dr iveit even  more  genera l .3An in teres t ing  anecdote that arose in ear ly  discussions in the planning of th is  pro jectcentered around the t ight  deadl ines and the breadth of the app l i ca t ion  area.
Since i t  wasc lear  that one could not cover o l i  three under ly ing systems in every area for  which theycould provide in format ion,  the quest ion arose whether to focus on o substant ia l  subpart ofthe app l i ca t ion  domain in i t ia l l y  or to sacr i f i ce  l ingu is t i c  coverage to gain in coverage ofthe under ly ing  systems, Because the in format ion  needs of the var ious navy personneld i f fe red  w ide ly ,  and because the scope of needs seemed impossible to p red ic t ,  navy personnelin i t ia l l y  suggested that coverage of o l i  poss ib le  in format ion  stored in the under ly ingsystems was of such importance that sacr i f i ces  regarding the language understood could bemode even i f  there were only one way that  o given piece of in format ion  could be accessed.The in teres t ing  thing however is that as demonstrations were given,  the f i r s t  things peoplerequest fo l low ing  the demonstrat ion is to t ry  var ious rephrosings of the requests in thedemonst ra t ion ,  thereby in behavior ind icat ing  how important not being res t r i c ted  to specialforms is.544.2 The Necessity of Heuristic SolutionsIn the previous section we have argued for the need of general purpose solutionsto problems in NLI.
Clearly this cannot be taken to an extreme; otherwise one wouldnot have an NLI in the foreseeable future, since there are wel l -known outstandingproblems for which there is no general, comprehensive solution on the horizon.Consequently, heuristic, state-of-the-art solutions are being demonstrated forproblems such as ambiguity, vagueness, discourse context, ill-formed input, definitereference, quantifier scope, conjunction, and ellipsis.
Though laboratory use of thesystem embodying that set of heuristics is quite promising, we expect that placing thesystem in the hands of individuals trying to solve their day - to -day  problems willproduce interesting corpora of dialogues that cannot be handled by one or more ofthose heuristics.
Careful study of those corpora will tell us not only the effectivenessof state-of-the-art solutions but will also suggest new directions of research.4.3 The Necessity of Extra-linguistic Elements in a Natural Language InterfaceHaving only a natural language processor is not sufficient to provide a trulynatural interface.
Four elements seem highly valuable for typed input: editing, areadily accessible history of the session, human factors elements in the presentation,and a min imum of key strokes.
Editing should include more than deleting the lastcharacter of the string and deleting the whole string.
We are currently relying onEmacs, which is readily available on Symbolics workstations.
However, that is alsounattractive because of the arcane nature of the link between the myriad control keycommands  of Emacs and the actual textual tasks the user needs to perform.IRUS's on-line history of the session provides reviewing earlier results, editingthe text of earlier requests to create new ones, and generating a standard protocolfor routine operations that occur on a regular basis.
Our user community anticipatesa need for both routine sequences of questions as would be useful in preparing dailyor weekly reports, and ad hoc queries, e.g., when crises arise.Issues in presentation are important as well.
No matter what the underlyingapplication is, IRUS lets it produce output on the complete bitmap screen.
A popupinput window and an optional popup history window can be moved to any part of thescreen so that all parts of the underlying system's output may be visible.Certain operations occur so frequently that one would like to have themavailable on the screen at all times in menus  to minimize memory  load and keystrokes.
Examples are clearing a window and aborting a request.55A fu ture  capabi l i ty  that  would be quite a t t rac t ive  is point ing to individual  dataitems, c lasses of data  items, field headings,  or  locat ions  on maps ,  causing theappropr ia te  l inguist ic  descr ipt ion  of that  ent i ty  to be made avai lable as par t  of thenatura l  language input.
While this is possib le in the future ,  providing such acapabi l i ty  is not  cur rent ly  funded.Speech input  as a mode of communicat ion would also be highly desirable,  even ifext remely  l imited initial ly.
As a consequence,  the  next  generat ion  of natura l  languageunders tand ing  systems in the FCCBMP will inc lude modi f icat ions pecif ical ly to providean in f ras t ructure  which could at a la ter  date suppor t  speech  input.5 Future Possibi6t iesIn addi t ion to the enhancements  we have ment ioned ear l ier  regard ing  thesemant ic  in terpreter ,  l inguist ic knowledge acquis i t ion  tools,  and d iscourse  process ing,there  are three  substant ia l  areas  of research  and development  possible.
First,research  in i l l - fo rmed input is necessary  in o rder  to allow for addit ional  grammaticalproblems in the input  and for re laxat ion  of semant ic  const ra in ts ,  e.g., to allow forf igures of speech.
The problem with an i l l - fo rmed input  is that  there  is noin terpretat ion  which satisf ies all l inguist ic const ra in ts .
Therefore,  the veryconst ra in ts  that  limit search  must be relaxed,  thereby  opening Pandora 's  Box in termsof the number  of a l ternat ives  in the search  space.
Not only IRUS, but  apparent ly  allsystems that  p rocess  any i l l - fo rmed input a t ta in  the success  they  do by cons ider ingvery  few kinds of i l l - fo rmed input and by assuming that  semant ic  const ra in ts  cannever  be violated.
4 Consequently,  determining what  the  user  meant in an i l l - fo rmedinput  is a substant ia l  problem requir ing research .Second, we propose  exploring paral le l  a rch i tec tures  to add funct iona l  capabi l i ty.Run time per fo rmance  of IRUS on a Symbolics machine is quite acceptable .
Typicalinputs  are ful ly p rocessed  to give the ta rget  language input  to the under ly ing systemwithin a few seconds;  natura l ly ,  the re lat iona l  data  base and under ly ing exper tsystems are not  expected  to be able to per form at comparab le  speeds.
There arethree  areas  where funct ional  per formance could be improved by paral lel ism.I.
The current system ranks the partial parses using both semantic andsyntactic information, and it explores those partial parses based onfollowing up the most promising one first.
The technique is relativelyeffective, but clearly not infallible.
Finding all interpretations and then4Early work on allowing semantic relaxation is reported in \[5, 21.
22\].56rank ing them based not  only on local syntact i c  and semantic  tes ts  but  alsoon global semantic,,  pragmatic ,  and d iscourse  informat ion is cr i t ica l  toimproving the ident i f icat ion of what the user  in tended.2.
A second area  re la ted  to the f irst,  is g reater  coverage of i l l - fo rmed input.As ment ioned ear l ier ,  i l l - fo rmedness  requ i res  re laxing the ru les  thatconst ra in  search;  there fore  the search  space grows dramat ica l ly  inp rocess ing  an i l l - fo rmed input.3.
Rea l - t ime,  large vocabulary,  large branch ing  factor ,  cont inuous  speechrecogn i t ion  is beyond the s ta te  of the art ,  and requ i res  highly para l le lmachines  to suppor t  speech signal process ing.
While this is highly desirable,it is not  par t  of our  cur rent  effort .Within the  next  two years  we in tend to rep lace  the ATN grammar with a dec larat ive ,s ide -e f fec t  f ree grammar and a para l le l  pars ing algor ithm, following work repor ted  in\[16\].Third, our  evolving system is being in ter faced  to the Penman generat ioncomponent  from use / In format ion  Sc iences Ins t i tu te  (USC/ISI) \[8\] .
Penman is basedupon systemic l inguist ics.
The ul t imate goal of the  e f for t  with USC/ISI is twofold: tohave systems that  can unders tand  whatever  they  generate  and to achieve this  byhaving common knowledge sources  for the lexicon,  for the NIKL model of domainpred icates ,  and for d iscourse information.6 ConclusionsThough the pro ject  will be ongoing for severa l  years  yet, there  are severa lp re l iminary  conc lus ions  from the f i rst  year  and a half  of effort ,  given the const ra in tsand goals ment ioned in sect ion two.1.
Providing language coverage for this b road  appl icat ion with multipleunder ly ing  systems has not been a problem.
However, s ince determin ingwhat system(s)  must be accessed  for  a given input  is a research  problemthat  has been l itt le addressed,  only simple l inguist ic  c lues are  used in thecur rent  vers ion.
The problem in genera l  involves not  only reason ing  aboutthe  capabi l i t ies  of the under ly ing systems \[7\] but  also s igni f icant l inguist icissues.
For instance,  if one says Show me the car r ie rs  whose cond i t ion  codechanged in  the last  24 hours ,  e i ther  a l ist (from the data  base) or a map(from OSGP) is appropr ia te .
If one says Show me a d i sp lay  o\[ the car r ie rswhose  cond i t ion  code changed in  the last  24 hours ,  only OSGP is appropr ia te .The l inguist ic  cue is disp lay .
Fur thermore ,  some contexts  favor  oneunder ly ing  system over the other ,  requ i r ing  the system to maintain adia logue context  model, including the  user ' s  in fe r red  goals in the dialogue,in o rder  to in tegrate  cues from dialogue context  with the l inguist ic cues.2.
The arch i tec ture  has suppor ted  t ranspor tab i l i ty  well.
For instance,  this newapp l icat ion  requ i red  only minor changes  to the  grammar and morphologica lana lyzer .
As FRESH has been fur ther  def ined and as the data  bases t ructure  has evolved, only small local changes  have been requ i red  to thecontent  of the knowledge bases.
Should a data  base machine rep lace  the57cur rent  data  base  management  sys tem in Hawaii,  on ly  two to  th ree  personweeks  shou ld  be needed to  generate  the  new target  language.
However ,more  soph is t i ca ted  l ingu is t i c  knowledge  acqu is i t ion  too ls  not  dependent  onthe  type  of the  under ly ing  app l i ca t ion  sys tem are  a c r i t i ca l  goal  fo r  NLI bothfo r  fa r  g reater  app l i cab i l i ty  of the  techno logy  and  fo r  fa r  b roaderava i lab i l i ty  of NLIs.3.
The success  of th i s  e f fo r t  as a techno logy  tes tbed  depends  on eva luat iona f te r  ins ta l la t ion  at  the  Pac i f i c  F leet  Command Center  and  on the  success  ofthe  arch i tec ture  to suppor t  substant ia l  enhancements ,  such  as the  p lannedsemant ic  in terpreter  based  on compos i t iona l  semant ics  and  the  p lannedpara l le l  parser .
However ,  i t  a l ready  has  suppor ted  mass ive  changes  well,such  as the  change in under ly ing  knowledge  representat ion  when NIKL wasin t roduced.The potent ia l  of the  tes tbed  is g reat  because  it o f fe rs  empi r i ca l  research  ofa rea l i s t i c  k ind  unfor tunate ly  la rge ly  lack ing  hereto fore ;  the  p lacement  ofTQA in the  hands  of users  to so lve the i r  da i ly  p rob lems for  a year  \[4\] is anotab le  except ion .
The resu l t s  of research  on heur i s t i cs  fo r  de f in i tere ference ;  semant ic  ambigu i ty ;  e l l ips is ;  syntact i ca l ly  or  semant ica l ly  i l l -fo rmed input ;  and  in fe rence  f rom wor ld  knowledge  and  context ,  to name afew s tud ied  in i so la t ion ,  must  be  tes ted  in a complete  sys tem.
Theoppor tun i ty  in the  FCCBMP will he lp  to determine  the  e f fec t iveness  of suchheur i s t i cs  in a la rge  d iverse  app l i ca t ion  domain  where  combinator ia l  i ssuescannot  be ignored .
Co l lect ing corpora  in an  exper iment  can  be h igh lyins t ruc t ive ,  as shown in \[20\].
However ,  corpus  co l lec t ion  us ing  peop leso lv ing the i r  own prob lems prov ides  an uncommon degree  of rea l i sm andleg i t imacy  to the  empi r i ca l  p rocess .58References\[1\]\[2\]\[3\]\[4\]\[5\]\[6\]\[7\]\[s\]\[9\]\[10\]Bates, M., Stallard, D., and Moser, M.The IRUS Transportable Natural Language Database Interface.Expert Database Systems.Cummings Publishing Company, Menlo Park,  CA, 1985.Bobrow, R.J.The RUS System.In B.L.
Webber, R. Bobrow (editors),  Research in Natural  LanguageUnderstanding.Bolt,  Beranek and Newman, Inc., Cambridge, MA, 1978.BBN Technical Report 3878.Bobrow, R. and Bates, M.The RUS Parser  Control St ructure .In Research in Knowledge Representat ion for  Natural  Language Understanding,Annual Report.Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., 1982.BBN Report No.
5188.Damerau, F.J.Operating Stat ist ics for the Transformat ional  Question Answering System.American Journal of Computational L inguist ics  7(1):30-42, 1981.Fass, D. and Wilks, Y.Preference Semantics, I l l -Formedness,  and Metaphor.American Journal of Computational L inguist ics  9(3-4) :178-187,  1983.Grosz, B., Appelt, D. E., Martin, P., and Pereira,  F.TEAM: An Experiment in the Design of Transportable Natural  LanguageInterfaces.Technical Report 356, SRI Internat iona l ,  1985.To appear  in Artificial Intel l igence.Kaczmarek, T., Mark, W., and Sondheimer, N.The Consul/CUE Interface: An In tegrated  Interact ive Environment.In Proceedings of CHI '83 Human Factors in Computing Systems, pages 96-102.ACM, December, 1983.Mann, W.C. and Matthiessen, C.M.I.M.Nigel: A Systemic Grammar  for Text Generation.Systemic Perspect ives on Discourses: Selected Theoretical Papers from the 9thInternat ional  Systemic Workshop.Ablex, Norwood, N J, forthcoming.Moore, R.C.Natural Language Access to Databases - Theoretical/Technical Issues.In Proceedings of the 20th Annual Meeting of the ASsociation for  ComputationalL inguist ics,  pages 44-45.
Associat ion for Computat ional  Linguistics, June,1982.Moser, M.G.An Overview of NIKL, the New Implementat ion of KL-ONE.In Sidner, C. L., et al (editors),  Research in Knowledge Representat ion fo rNatural  Language Understanding - Annual  Report, I September 1982 - 31August 1983, pages 7-26.BBN Laborator ies  Report No.
5421, 1983.59\[11\]\[12\]\[13\]\[14\]\[15\]\[16\]\[17\]\[lS\]\[19\]\[20\]\[21\]\[22\]Moser, M.G.Domain Dependent Semantic Acquisition.In The First Conference on Artif icial Intelligence Applications, pages 13-18.IEEE Computer Society, December,  1984.Sager,  N.The String Parser for Scientific Literature.In R. Rustin (editor), Natural Language Processing, pages 61-88.AlgorithmicsPress, Inc., New York, NY, 1973.Scha, R.J.H.English Words and Data Bases: How to Bridge the Gap.In Proceedings of the 20th Annual Meeting of the Association fo r  ComputationalLinguistics, pages 57-59.
Associat ion for Computat ional  Linguistics, June ,1982.Scha, R.J.H.Logical Foundations for Question Answering.Technical  Report, Eindhoven: Phil ips Research  Labs, M.S.
12.331., 1983.Schmolze, J.G., Lipkis, T.A.Classification in the KL-ONE Knowledge Representation System.In Proceedings oF the Eighth International Joint ConFerence on ArtificialIntelligence.
1983.Sr idharan,  N.S.Semi-Applicative Programming: Examples oF Context Free Recognizers.Technical  Report  Report  No.
6135, BBN Laborator ies  Inc., January ,  1986.Stallard, D.Data Modelling for Natural Language Access.In The First Conference on Artif icial Intelligence Applications, pages 19-24.IEEE Computer Society, December,  1984.Stallard, D.G.A Terminological Simplification Transformation for Natural Language Question-Answering Systems.In Proceedings of the 24th Annual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics.
Associat ion for Computat ional  Linguistics, July, 1986.To appear.Stal lard,  D.G.Tazonomic InFerence on Predicate Calculus Expressions.Technical  Report, BBN Laborator ies  Inc., 1986.In preparat ion .Thompson, B.H.Linguistic Analysis of Natural Language Communication with Computers.In Proceedings of the Eighth International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pages 190-201. International Committee on ComputationalLinguistics, October, 1980.Weischedel, R. M. and Sondheimer,  N. K.Meta - ru les  as a Basis for P rocess ing  I l l -Formed Input.American Journal of Computational Linguistics 9(3-4):161-177, 1983.Weischedel, R.M.
and Sondheimer,  N.K.Rela~ng Constraints in MIFIKL.Technical  Report,  USC/ Information Sciences Inst i tute,  1983.60\[23\] Woods, W.A.Transition Network Grammars for Natural Language Analysis.CACM 13(10):591-606, October, 1970.61
