Dragon Systems, Inc.90 Bridge StreetNewton, MA 02158Tel.
(617) 965-5200, FAX (617) 527-0372ARPANET DRAGON@A.isi.eduPrincipal Investigators: Janet M. Baker and James K. BakerObjectives: Dragon Systems is developing and building high performance, computationally-efficient interactive speech workstations, to sup'port adaptive speech recognition of largevocabulary, natural anguage speech input in real-time.
These systems are based on the resultsof the multi-knowledge source (MKS) algorithm architecture and multi-processor acceleratorhardware studies previously undertaken by Dragon under DARPA auspices, and on Dragon'sseparately developed speech recognition systems (VoiceScribe, DragonWriter, and DragonDictate)and related work.A highly interactive user interface is being further extended to facilitate system ease-of-use aswell as performance and throughput.
The integration of a full application interface will enablesystem testing under realistic operational conditions.
Extensive testiqg will be conducted withusers of  these capabilities and their associated user / application / communication i terfaces, ina series of challenging interactive performance tasks.
The overall objective is to provideadvanced speech recognition capabilities for operating environments in which the user has ademanding real-time task.Accomplishments in past 2 years:1.
Demonstrated technical feasibility for multi2processor hardware architecture to supportcontinuous peech recognition algorithms in a workstation.2.
Designed flexible multi-knowledge source algorithm architecture to accommodate disparateknowledge sources in a consistent framework.3.
Extended "McNemar's Test" to achieve greater sensitivity in significance measures ofcomparative recognition tests.4.
Collected discrete and continuous peech database for Resource Management task (991words) with 7 speakers (about 50 K words total) in a moderate noise environment.5.
Conducted tests and evaluated results on discrete RM database with DragonWriter-1000speech recognition system (includes 1 peripheral board and software) running in a 386-basedMS.DOS personal computer.Plans for next 1 + years:During the initial phase of the present 3-year program, Dragon's continuous peech recognitionalgorithms will be ported into a multi-processor hardware and MKS software architecturehosted in an 80n86 (n>2) workstation.
Dragon's on-line adaptive acoustic and languagemodelling algorithms will also be ported onto this platform as well as user and applicationinterfaces.The primary performance task selected for demonstration a d test-bed purposes is "InteractiveTranscription".
A user's speech will be transcribed interactively into text in real-time, throughan application interface into a word-processing program for on-line report generation anddocument creation.
It will also incorporate appropriate rror correction and editing capabilities.Testing and the further development of evaluation methodologies will proceed in parallel.143
