INITIAL DRAFT GUIDELINES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OFTHE NEXT-GENERATION SPOKEN LANGUAGE SYSTEMSSPEECH RESEARCH DATABASEGeorge R. Doddington,TI Senior Fellow and Chief Speech ScientistComputer Science CenterTexas InstrumentsOBJECTIVETo best serve the strategic needs of the DARPA SLS research program bycreating the next-generation speech database(s).To promote progress on the important SLS research problems:-- phonetic modeling (acoustic-phonetic decoding)-- higher level modeling of the speech mechanism-- language modeling (above the level of speech)To be adequate, practical, and timely-- comprehensive enough to support true learning-- limited enough to be accomplished-- soon enough to be valuableBACKGROUNDThe DARPA speech research program has made significant progress in thedevelopment of speech recognition technology.
This progress has led to anincrease in the overall scope of the program, from "speech recognition" to"spoken language recognition".
This change in the nature of the researcheffort requires that a new speech database be developed to better support thenew research objectives.The value of establishing a few well-designed databases, shared by all of theresearch contributors, was demonstrated in the f i rs t  phase of the DARPA speechresearch program.
Such databases integrate the various research efforts byproviding a common research medium which affords a shared understanding of theproblem and by self-direction of technical efforts through unequivocaldemonstrations of the strengths/weaknesses of competing approaches.DATABASE REQUIREMENTSPrimary requirements:-- "natural" (task-oriented) speech, unconstrainedvocabulary or fixed syntax-- support for all speech recognition problem areas-- emphasis on speaker independent recognitionby fixedDARPA / FEBRUARY 1989256Implied requirements:-- comprehensive-- large vocabulary-- unconstrained -- large vocabulary,formal language specification-- support for performance measurement-- relevant to DoD needsconnected speech, noEfficiency:-- low cost per second of speech-- high value per second of speech -- emphasis on problem areas-- rapid development cycleAmount of speech:-- 100 hoursNumber of speakers:-- 1000 speakersData documentation:-- orthographic transcription-- speaker descriptionThe desiderata for the next-generation spoken language system speech databaseinclude the following:First, the speech must be "natural".
This implies that the speech bespontaneous as well as unconstrained by vocabulary or syntax.Second, the speech should involve or simulate interactive man/machineproblem solving.
This implies that the speaker's focus of attentionis not on the speech act i t se l f  but rather on the task which thespeech serves.Third, the database should be suff iciently representative and generalso that i t  can support SLS technology development hat is useful ingeneral, beyond the specific task domain of the database.Fourth, the database development effort must be doable, with the dataavailable to the researchers soon enough to drive the researcheffort.Fifth, the database should be relevant to DARPA needs and shoulddemonstrate a high intr insic value of spoken language systems for DoDapplications.There is one other important consideration in the creation of an SLS database.The database should not be so d i f f i cu l t  that i t  discourages the enthusiasm soessential for strong effort and steady progress in SLS technology research anddevelopment.
This wi l l  be d i f f i cu l t  for a spontaneous SLS database.
Perhapsthe database might be graded into categories of d i f f i cu l ty ,  thus allowing agradual progress toward solutions for the most d i f f i cu l t  problems.DARPA / FEBRUARY 1989257ALTERNATIVE SOURCES OF DATA"Read" speech-- Naval Battle Management-- Acoustic-phonetic database (TIMIT)"Performance task" simulation, task-oriented naturally elicited (TONE)-- NOSC naval battle management-- Personnel database-- Spread sheet-- Other less well-defined task domains-- Pilot's associate-- Search & Rescue-- Navigation Aid by Phone"Natural task" data collection-- ATC operations-- Travel planning and reservations-- Theater ecordings-- Dictation-- office correspondence-- medical transcriptionsFrom among the three general categories of speech data, namely "read" speech,"performance task" speech, and "natural task" speech, probably the mostsatisfactory candidate is "natural task" speech.
A discussion of the problemswith the different categories of speech databases follows:I) "Read" speech database problems: The principal objection to "read" speechdata is that i t  does not support the development of technology torecognize natural spoken language.
The argument hat transcripts ofspoken language could be read is weak.
I t  is not even clear that areasonable representation of natural speech could be presented to thesubjects to be read.
Most agree that "read" speech is not suitable,and so I wil l  not argue further against this category.2) "Performance task" simulation problems: Several factors contribute tomake "performance task" simulation impractical.
First, the effortto create a meaningful simulation would be d i f f icu l t  at best.
Anaffordable effort could not support the creation of a targetapplication, and would necessarily be limited to creating a simulationof a spoken language interface.
But working within existing targetapplications wil l  l imit the effective language domain, because few i fany existing applications have the large domain and vocabulary thatthe SLS effort proposes to study.
How to support a large meaningfullanguage with this simulation is a crit ical challenge.
Second, therewould be a large effort required to create meaningful task scenariosfor the subjects, to find (or train) a sufficient number ofknowledgeable subjects, and to orient and interest the subjects in thespecifics of the assigned task.
Third, the need to use a trained andskilled human translator (to listen to the subjects and inputappropriate commands to the system simulation), wil l  l imit the amountof data that can be collected to a level that wil l  not supply theneeded amount of data for productive research.DARPA / FEBRUARY 19892583) "Natural task" speech database problems: There are several negative aspectsto a "natural task" speech database, mostly related to the di f f icultyof the recognition task: Because of the in situ nature of the speech,there wil l  be significant additional dimensions of variation in thespeech signal.
These wil l  include such things as greater acousticvariation, and less or no conscious control of a subject on hisspeech.
Further, the usage of vocabulary and syntax wil l  be highlyskewed, with rare forms occurring just often enough to maximize theerror rate through insufficient exposure to training data.
(Allspontaneous speech databases wil l  be subject to such skewing.
)The benefits of a "natural task" database, however, may outweigh orovercome the shortcomings.
Most important, a natural task databaseallows study of the underlying principles that govern natural spokenlanguage without the risk of corruption or bias of the language whichmight be caused by artifacts induced by simulation or data collectionconstraints.
Also, the "natural task" scenario wil l  support a higherlevel language, in terms of intelligent command/control dialog, thancould be expected from a database query system such as spread sheetor personnel database.
Finally, a most important benefit of the"natural task" scenario is that i t  can much more eff iciently providea large speech database.
This can help to overcome the skeweddistribution of vocabulary and syntax.Of the candidate tasks listed above, the f i rs t  two, ATC operations andtravel planning, probably f i t  the SLS database objectives best.
Theyare both highly interactive and relatively well controlled.
(ATCcontrollers use head-mounted microphones, and travel planning usesthe telephone.)
Also, they are both highly interactive and, at leastin principle, support easy and efficient speech data collection.
(ATCalready record their data, although the bandwidth is typically limitedto less than 4 kHz.)
Dictation would be a good candidate, except thati t  is really not an interactive speech task, and therefore i t  does notsupport the SLS objective directly.EVALUMION ISSUES?
Development/evaluation partitionPerformance definition%%%%%%phones correctly recognizedwords correctly recognizedsentences correctly recognizedsentences correctly understoodtasks correctly accomplishedincrease in productivityError classification ---- acoustic (simple decoding error)-- lexical (word not in lexicon)-- syntactic (ungrammatical or insufficient grammar)-- semantic (misunderstood)DARPA / FEBRUARY 1989259In progressing from "speech recognition" to "spoken language systems", two newdimensions wi l l  be added to performance valuation.
First, "coverage" wi l l  bean important, perhaps dominant, factor in system performance.
Although thishas always been an important issue in the practical use of speech recognition,i t  has typically been ignored, and evaluation has considered only speech datathat fal ls within the formal language model.
Second, i t  wi l l  no longer beadequate to evaluate speech at the level of orthographic transcription.
I twi l l  be necessary to "understand" the speech suff iciently to determine theappropriate response to i t .
This is the greatest strategic challenge facingthe SLS research effort, and one for which there wi l l  be no general near-termsolution.
The hope is that technology may be developed to support specifictask-domain applications.
The immediate challenge is to define an evaluationmethodology for spoken language understanding.IMPORTANT PROBLEM DIMENSIONS IN THE DATABASEAcoustics-- microphone-- noise-- channelSpeaker- -  sex-- other physiological variables-- speech patternsAccent/dialectDomaintasklexicondialogRELEVANCE OF CURRENT DATABASES (STRENGTHS/WEAKNESSES(LESSONS LEARNED)?
Acoustic-phonetic databaseStrengths:-- lasting general value for phonetic recognition research-- large number of speakersWeaknesses:-- expensive and time-consuming phonetic transcription-- small amount of data?
Naval battle management task domainStrengths:-- supported evelopment of speaker independent recognition-- low perplexity-- good demonstration impactDARPA / FEBRUARY 1989260Weaknesses:- -  small language model- -  low perp lex i ty"Robust" databaseWeaknesses:- -  over ly  ambit ious- -  two-stage co l lec t ion /computer i za t ion- -  extremely expensive to develop- -  too largeDARPA / FEBRUARY 1989261
