TACITUS:  A Message  Unders tand ing  SystemJerry ~.
Hobbs, Douglas Appelt, John Bear,Mark Stickel, and Mabry TysonSRI InternationalMenlo Park, California(415) 859-2220TACITUS is a general and domain-independent na ural anguage processing system,used so far primarily for message processing.
It performs a syntactic analysis of thesentences in the text, producing a logical form.
Next, inferential pragmatics processing isapplied to the logical form to solve problems of schema recognition, reference resolution,metonymy resolution, and the interpretation of vague predicates.
An analysis componentthen produces the desired output for the application.
TACITUS has been applied toseveral quite different domains, including naval equipment failure reports, naval operationsreports, and terrorist reports.The syntactic omponent is the DIALOGIC system, developed originally for the TEAMtransportable, natural language interface to databases.
The parser is bottom-up andproduces all the parses at once, together with their logical forms.
Its grammar is among thelargest computer grammars of English in existence, giving nearly complete coverage of suchphenomena s sentential complements, relative clauses, adverbials, sentence fragments,and the most common varieties of conjunction.
Selectional constraints are applied, andthere are a large number of heuristics for selecting the preferred parses of ambiguoussentences.
The logical form produced is an "ontologically promiscuous" version of first-order predicate calculus, in which relations of grammatical subordination are represented.Optionally and where possible, the logical forms for different parses are merged into aneutral representation.Pragmatics processing is based on abductive inference, implemented in the PrologTechnology Theorem Prover (PTTP), using a knowledge base encoding commonsense anddomain-specific knowledge in the form of predicate-calculus axioms.
The fundamental ideais that the interpretation of a sentence is the minimM proof from the knowledge base ofthe logical form of the sentence together with the constraints predicates impose on theirarguments, allowing for coercions, where one merges redundancies where possible andmakes assumptions where necessary.
This formulation leads to an elegant, unified solutionto the problems of schema recognition, reference resolution, metonymy resolution, and theinterpretation of vague predicates.
The output of this component is an elaborated logicalform with the relevant inferences drawn and the identities of entities explicitly encoded.Finally, an analysis component takes the interpretation produced by the pragmaticscomponent and generates the required output.
For the equipment failure reports, this isa diagnosis of the problem described.
For the naval operations reports and the terroristreports, this is entries for a database.
With very little effort, analysis components couldbe constructed for a number of other applications, uch as message routing and messageprioritizing.A number of convenient knowledge-acquisition facilities have been implemented forTACITUS.
These include a menu-based lexical acquisition component, a sort hierarchyeditor, and a component allowing entry of axioms in a subset of English.459
