Research in Cont inuous  Speech  RecognitionPIs: John Makhoul, Pdchard SchwartzBBN STC, 10 Moulton St., Cambridge, MA, 02238Makhoul@ @bbn.com, Schwartz@ bbn.com(617) 873-3332,-3360The primary goal of this work is to develop improved methods and models for acoustic recog-nition of continuous peech.
Most of the work has focused on deriving statistical models for speechrecognition that can capture the acoustic-phonetic phenomena that occur in speech with the con-straint that the models can be adequately estimated from a reasonable amount of training speech.Most of our work in phonetic recognition and word recognition over the past six years hasinvolved hidden Markov models (HMMs).
One significant contribution in this area has been atechnique we developed for modeling the effects of phonetic coarticulation i  a robust way.
Thetechnique is based on estimating context-dependent models of each of the phonemes.
We haveshown that this basic model (and its extensions) has resulted in a significant improvement in wordand sentence recognition accuracy.We have also developed the "stochastic segment model", which can model the correlation be-tween different parts of the phoneme directly.
Initial experiments with this model on context-independent phonetic units reduced the recognition error by a factor of two lower than for thecorresponding context-independent HMM models.
However, the new method requires ignificantlymore computation.In general, collecting a large amount of speech (about 30 minutes) from the particular speakerwho will use the system will result in the highest recognition accuracy.
However, one may need tominimize the amount of training speech from a new speaker without losing performance.
We havedeveloped a "probabilistic spectral mapping" technique for adapting a model from one speaker toa new speaker based on a small amount of speech.
Using this technique, the recognition accuracywith only 2 minutes of training from the new speaker is equal to that usually achieved using 20minutes of speaker-dependent training.In this project we have combined various knowledge sources together to produce the BYBLOSspeech recognition system.
The system was tested on the DARPA Resource Management Databaseunder several grammar conditions and resulted in higher ecognition accuracies than had previouslybeen reported for tasks of this complexity.In the area of real-time speech recognition we have pursued two activities: the implementation four speech recognition algorithms on a general-purpose parallel processor and a joint effort with UCberkeley and SRI to design and build a special-purpose board-set capable of real-time continuousspeech recognition with a large vocabulary (3000 words) and a statistical language model.
In thislatter activity, we provided the BYBLOS recognition code, and consulted on the changes that wouldbe appropriate for a special purpose VLSI implementation.
The first prototype of this board set isexpected to be completed by mid t989.The parallel implementation research used the BBN Butterfly TM parallel processor.
To achievenear linear parallel efficiency on large configurations (97 processors) required some tuning of thecommunication a d synchronization procedures.
The final result was a factor of 79 increase in speedon the 97-processor machine over the speed on a single processor.
The near-real-time BYBLOSspeech recognition system on a 32-processor Butterfly TM was demonstrated and used in several"live" tests.81
