Research and Development for Spoken Language SystemsVictor W. ZueSpoken Language Systems GroupLaboratory for Computer ScienceMassachusetts Institute of TechnologyOBJECTIVE:The goal of this research is to develop a spoken language system that will demonstrate he usefulnessof voice input for interactive problem solving.
The system will accept continuous speech, and will handlemultiple speakers without explicit speaker enrollment.
Combining speech recognition and natural anguageprocessing to achieve speech understanding, the system will be demonstrated in an application domainrelevant o the DoD.
The objective of this project is to develop a robust and high-performance speechrecognition system using a segment-based approach to phonetic recognition.
The recognition system willeventually be integrated with natural anguage processing to achieve spoken language understanding.SUMMARY OF ACCOMPLISHMENTS:?
Developed the VOYAGER system that combines peech recognition SUMMIT with natural anguage pro-cessing TINA to achieve speech understandingwithin the task domain of navigational ssistance.
Thesystem was brought into existence during the first quarter of the contracting period.?
Collected a spoken language database of approximately 10,000 sentences from 100 speakers using theVOYAGER system.
Performed comparative acoustic and linguistic analysis of spontaneous and readspeech.?
Conducted preliminary evaluation of VOYAGER using the spontaneous speech database.
Achieved wordand sentence recognition accuracy of 86 and 49%, respectively, for sentences that passed the word pairgrammar.PLANS:?
Improve the speech recognition performance by incorporating context-dependency in phonetic mod-elling.?
Fully integrate TINA and SUMMIT in order to exploit speech and natural anguage symbiosis.?
Increase and improve the knowledge base of VOYAGER., SO that correct and natural responses can begenerated.?
Collect additional speech and text data during actual problem solving for system development andevaluation, and continue to evaluate the performance of VOYAGER.?
Begin hardware development, such that the system will soon be able to run in near real-time.450
