Session 11Natural Language IIIKenneth Ward ChurchAT&T Bell LaboratoriesThis session consisted of four papers: two papers discussed the integration of text and graphics innatural language generation/explanation, one paper on interpreting speech acts and one paper on theTAG (Tree Adjoining Grammar) formalism.Allen presented "Using Structural Constraints for Speech Act Interpretation" by Allen and Hinkleman.The paper discusses ways to distinguish an indirect speech act such as "Can you pass the salt?"
from adirect yes-no question.
It is important hat a speech understanding system be able to distinguish thetwo; given an indirect question such as "Can you tell me how many ships are in the Bering Sea?
", thesystem should not repsond with "yes".
Hinkleman, in her recently completely thesis, has proposed anumber of rules such as: " I f  the sentence contains the adverb 'please,' than the possible interpretationis: 'directive-command.'
" In the oral presentation, Allen also suggested that there might be someintonational cues that could be useful.
This is an interesting possibility that we ought to think about.Schabes then presented "An Evaluation of Lexicalization in Parsing," by Joshi and Schabes.
Over thelast few years, there has been considerable interest in "head-driven" parsing.
That is, the parser wouldsomehow take advantage of constraints between a verb (the head of a verb phrase) and its arguments inorder to parse more quickly and more accurately.
Although there is a very strong intuition that someform of this argument must be correct, much of the literature has been disappointingly vague.
Incontrast, Joshi and Schabes report on an experiment showing that lexical constraints improves parsingtime.
The experiment used a small grammar fragment written in the TAG formalism.
They plan toinvestigate how well these results scale up with larger grammars.
It would also be interesting to seehow well these results generalize over input corpora nd over grammatical formalisms.The last two papers, "Natural Langauge with Integrated Deictic and Graphic Gestures" by Neal(presenter), Theilman, Dobes, Hailer, Galnowski and Shapiro, and "Coordinating Text and Graphics inExplanation Generation," by Feiner and McKeown (presenter), discussed a multi-media pproach togeneration.
Sometimes a picture is more appropriate than an explanation i  English.
Both pictures andEnglish text have constraints.
Text should not be ungrammatical, or very awkward.
So, too, picturesneed to fit in a certain space and shouldn't be too busy.
Feiner and McKeown suggest that theconstraints hould be described eclaratively with a unification formalism.
It might also be interestingto consider other forms of multi-media presentation such as speech.383
