Analysis and Symbolic Processing of Unrestricted SpeechM.
Margaret Withgott, Ronald M. Kaplan, Principal InvestigatorsXEROX PALO ALTO RESEARCH CENTER3333 Coyote Hill RoadPalo Alto, CA 94304This is a basic research project whose thrust is both theoretical nd practical in nature.The core technology consists of techniques using machine learning and statistical theory aswell as fundamental linguistic and phonetic theory.
The investigations aim at furtheringthe understanding of requirements for future speech recognition systems, and in develop-ing strategies for extracting significant information from noisy and/or large quantities oflanguage data.Both the theoretical and practical sides of the research ave demonstrated advances.Phonetic regularities have been discovered; phonetic processing architectures and parametertracking methods, and the CDT algorithm have been developed, all of which take into ac-count contextual factors associated with phonetic variation.
Along with progress in variation,a distance metric has been developed for co-channel speech-interference.
Finally, progresshas been furthered in understanding information extraction in unrestricted language data,and part-of-speech annotation has been demonstrated.
The most recent accomplishmentsinclude:Developed the Clustered Decision Tree algorithm (an n-ary classification inductionmethod) which makes use of machine learning and statistical techniques to organizedata into structures representing the contextual factors associated with phonetic varia-tion.
\[see Chen et al, DARPA 89 Feb. & Oct. Proceedings\]Using the CDT methodology, developed a program to create probabilistic pronunciationmodels in the SRI RULE format.Discovered that while identically transcribed phones from different phoneme sourcesmay not differ spectrally, they can differ temporally; and an account of the phenomenonwas developed \[Peet & Withgott, reported at l l6th meeting of the Acous.
Soc.
Amer.\]Developed an LPC-based distance metric for recognition in the presence of competingspeech in which target-interference separation and target recognition are performed si-multaneously b  matching subsets of LPC predictor oots; and achieved error reductionof 70% at low to moderate signal-to-noise ratios as compared with conventional whole-spectrum matching in speaker-dependent isolated-word recognition experiments.
\[seeKopec & Bush, ICASSP 89\]Applied Markov random fields to (1) extract speech formants without appeal to afixed number of expected resonant frequencies, and (2) "restore" formants, employingcontinuity constraints to allow the missing and noisy formants to be filled in.Developed automatic annotation for text using ordinary parts of speech and simplelong-distance dependencies, without reliance on handmarked training data or uponuniformly higher-order Markov models; and achieved 95% correct annotation in a testtext unrelated in form or content o the training document.
\[see Kupiec, DARPA 89Feb.
& Oct. Proceedings\]460
