REAL-  T IME SPEECH REC O GNIT ION SYS TEMSHy MurveitSRI InternationalOB JECT IVESSRI is developing the hardware, software, and Mgorithms necessary to achieve real-time speech-recognition and spoken-language systems.
As the first phase of this project, SRI is currentlycompleting the design of a prototype that will be able to recognize from 3,000 to 9,000 words ofcontinuous peech using bigram language models.
This prototype is based on four special-purpose integrated circuits.
SRI is also continuing to improve the SRI DECIPHER speech recog-nition system, and enabling it to be incorporated into SRI's architecture for the integration ofspeech recognition and natural anguage processing.RECENT ACCOMPL ISHMENTS?
Specified and designed (in cooperation with U.C.
Berkeley) four speciM-purpose integrated cir-cuits that will serve as the basis of our real-time large-vocabulary speech-recognition system.?
Designed computer cards for the implementation f the prototype hardware.?
Implemented software to run the the DECIPHER signal processing routines in real time on aTMS32025-bused board designed at U.C.
Berkeley.?
Improved the design of the DECIPHER speech recognition system, which achieves high accu-racy speaker independent or dependent continuous peech recognition.
This included developingtechniques for automatically generating pronunciation etworks from standard training corpora.These networks improved speaker-dependent a d speaker-independent speech recognition accu-racy.?
Developed search strategies for DECIPHER that allow it to be efficiently used in SRI'sspoken-language system framework.PLANS* Complete the prototype system and build three working real-time recognition systems.
Thesesystems will be evaluated with an application that uses a statistical language model.?
Develop concrete specifications for real-time spoken-language systems.
This will likely includemodifications to the prototype system to allow it to work in SRI's spoken language systemframework--primarily b adding hypothesis pruning to the prototype.?
Continue improving the DECIPHER system including the addition of consistency modeling tothe system, and real-time implementations of noise-processing algorithms developed at SRI..458
