Analysis and Symbolic Processing of Unrestricted SpeechXEROX PALO ALTO I~ESEARCH CENTERM.
Margaret Withgott and Ronald M. Kaplan, Principal InvestigatorsOur objective is to develop methods and computational models for the perception and under-standing of sensory data.
The theories and computational technologies we develop will resultin information interpretation for multi-media documents and database retrieval.We have developed a theoretical ccount of variation and perceptual constancy in spoken lan-guage, and have developed tools and techniques for modeling phonetic variation.
Machine learn-ing and statistical techniques have been adapted for use in organizing data into structures rep-resenting the contextual factors associated with phonetic variation.
This is useful for evaluatingtheories of variation and for the design of word models in recognition systems.
We are able to au-tomatically generate rules that create variant pronunciations, which we then can compare withour large multiple-pronunciation dictionaries.
Studies of American English speech ave also ad-vanced our understanding of what information to include in recognition models.
For instance,results from an investigation ofpalatal sounds (with M. Peet, MITRE) argue for a particular useof duration, since the acoustic haracteristics of spectrally-similar sounds differ temporally ascorrelated with their distinct underlying sources.We have developed word prediction and verification techniques using unrestricted text as input.To take advantage ofdiscourse context for word prediction, we use a dynamic ache of recentlyencountered words in a Markov model to characterize the phenomenon f word recurrence as-sociated with the topic of discourse.
This reduces the average rank of correct word hypothesesby 10 percent in our electronic mail corpus.
A related implementation has been developed forautomatically tagging text.
To take advantage of local, intra-word context, we use morphologi-cal analysis tools and are investigating the use of dynamically-created word-segment models forverification.Most current approaches tothe problem of speech recognition i the presence ofcompeting speechare based on the assumption that the co-channel speech streams can be separated using localwaveform characteristics such as amplitude or fundamental frequency, independent of linguisticcontent.
In our alternative paradigm, target-interference separation and target recognition oc-cur simultaneously, driven by a model of the recognition vocabulary.
The basis of the method is aspectral similarity measure which allows a reference spectrum to match only a subset of the inputspectral features.
We have evaluated the method through a set of speaker-dependent isolated-word recognition experiments in which the co-channel interference onsisted of sentences drawnat random from the DARPA TIMIT database.
Results indicate a50-70 percent reduction i  recog-nition error rates at low signal-to-noise ratios relative to those observed with a conventionalwhole-spectrum cepstral distance metric.In concert with work supported by Xerox and NSF, we plan to study the integration of explicitsignal knowledge representation with information-theoretic approaches to recognition.
Weintend to use language models (both categorical and statistical) to constrain the recognition.The work will involve development of a speaker-independent phonetic lassification systemfor continuous speech as well as text-based recognition studies.283
