SUMMARY OF  SESS ION 9 - FUTURE PLANSClifford Weinstein, chairmanCharles Wayne presented overviews for both the Spoken Language and WrittenLanguage Programs.
Under the Spoken Language Program, he emphasized the integration ofspeech and natural language technology into Spoken Language Systems.
The need forcommon corpora and tasks, as well as systematic, objective performance valuation, wasstressed for both the Spoken and Written Language Programs.
In the SLS area, some of thekey goals were outlined for technical advances, including: moving from read speech tospontaneous speech, from fixed to expandable vocabulary, from a limited grammar to ahabitable natural grammar, from a single utterance to interactive dialogue, and from highword recognition accuracy to high utterance understanding accuracy.
A goal for 1993 was setforth for 90% speaker-independent u derstanding of natural, task-oriented utterances witha 5,000 word vocabulary.
In the Written Language Program description, the continuing needfor performance goals and evaluations extending beyond the June 1989 MessageUnderstanding Conference was emphasized.
New directions which were mentioned included:learning techniques for greater robustness and faster porting, and (possibly) machinetranslation as a framework for system integration.A general discussion followed, on topics including: SLS plan; role of SLSdemonstration tasks; Written Language Program plan; speech recognition technology; naturallanguage technology; corpora for both spoken and written language; and possible DoDapplications.
In the discussion on near-term DoD applications of SLS, it was argued that thetechnology for spoken language understanding, still in its infancy, should first be developedin the context of the demonstration tasks and systems, before transition to real applications.The topic of common SLS corpus and task was raised, and engendered muchdiscussion with many points of view.
Jack Godfrey of Texas Instruments set the backgroundfor this discussion by describing TI's current efforts in collecting pilot data on the BBNpersonnel management database query task.
A great deal of discussion ensued on whetherthis was an appropriate common task, and a variety of other possible tasks were discussed.
Itwas agreed that these issues would need to be resolved in smaller working groups,Charles Wayne closed the session with brief descriptions of two speculative newideas being discussed at DARPA/ISTO.
The first, "Spoon-Size Microsystems," focuses onvery small systems (e.g., wristwatch-size speech recognition) which would be built on adual-use (DoD and non-DoD) technology.
The second, the "Invisible Assistant", is a systemwhich, though extremely compact, could interact with people using speech and imagery as anintelligent aid.For the record, this session coincided with the San Francisco earthquake, andthose leaving the session saw earthquake pictures, rather than the canceled World Seriesgame, on television.305
