THE CURRENT STATUS OF  THE PENMANLANGUAGE GENERATION SYSTEMEduard H. HovyInformation Sciences Instituteof the University of Southern California4676 Admiralty WayMarina del Rey, CA 90292-6695Tel: 213-822-1511Email: HOVY~ISI.EDUPenman is one of the largest English language generation programs in the world.
De-veloped mainly at ISI/USC, it is the result of over 15 person-years' work, and forms thecore of an investigation of the computational spects of the theories of Systemic FunctionalLinguistics.In the past year, the Penman project has undergone a number of changes.
The programitself has been restructured into a software package and has been distributed to over 15sites worldwide (mostly to academic institutions).
This involved the creation of a numberof auxiliary software tools and the writing of over 600 pages of documentation.In addition, the project has entered into two collaborations that show great promise.The KOMET project at the IPSI Institute in West Germany (funded by the German FederalGovernment) is a new project with goals very similar to our own.
In addition to fundingsome of our work, they are building a systemic grammar of German and are collaborating onour parsing research.
The Department of Linguistics at the University of Sydney, Australia,is the home of Systemic Linguistics and is coordinating the worldwide growth of variousaspects of a grammar of English, which will be provided to us periodically to be incorporatedinto Penman.Current research is being pursued in three principal areas: parsing, text planning, andtext variation control during generation.
Dr. Bob Kasper is implementing the ability to per-form inference over disjunctions in the knowledge representation language Loom, prepara-tory to representing Penman's grammar in Loom and then linking his parser up to performsimultaneous semantic and syntactic parsing using subsumption classification as the centraloperation.
Dr. Eduard Hovy is continuing work on the planning of coherent multisenten-tim and longer texts using plans based on a generalization of rhetorical relations and onschemas, aiming for the automatic production of such texts as multipage reports.
Dr. JohnBateman is working with others (in Germany and with Dr. C~cile Paris from ISI) on devel-oping methods of representing interpersonal nd situational features in ways which facilitatethe control of Penman to produce textual variations from single input, tailored to hearers'level of expertise.449
