Research and Development in Natural Language UnderstandingRalph WeischedelBBN Systems and Technologies CorporationDuration: December 21, 1984 - September 30, 1989Brief Summary of Objectives: There are three objectives of the contract: to perform research anddevelopment in parallel parsing, semantic representation, ill-formed input, discourse, and tools forlinguistic knowledge acquisition, and to integrate software components from BBN and elsewhere toproduce Janus, DARPA's New Generation Natural Language Interface, and to demonstrate state-of-the-art natural language technology in DARPA applications.
The following software has been distributed:natural language system; IRACQ, knowledge acquisition system; System components and knowledgebases of Janus; KL-TWO knowledge representation and inference system integrated with Janus; variouscomponents for DARPA's Spoken Language Systems Project at BBN.Summary of accomplishments:1.
The first 20 months of the effort were devoted to technology transfer of IRUS, theunderstanding component of Janus to the Government.
To this end, BBN delivered IRUS,its knowledge acquisition tools (IRACQ and KREME), and knowledge bases for lexicalsemantics, lexical syntax, a domain model, and transformation rules to data base structure,to Texas Instruments for integration in DARPA's Fleet Command Center BattleManagement Program (FCCBMP).
Working with the Naval Ocean Systems Center, BBNofficially demonstrated IRUS-86 in summer 1986 as part of the FCCBMP to representativesof CINCPACFLT, DARPA, SPAWAR, and NOSC.
As of August, 1986, all of thecomponents were transferred to NOSC, and BBN began focus on the component researchgoals and on the system integration goals of Janus.2.
In conjunction with the USC/Information Sciences Institute, USC/ISI's Penman languagegeneration component was integrated with IRUS, to provide paraphrases and answers inEnglish.
This was demonstrated in May, 1987.3.
In the second version of Janus, the Penman generation component was replaced by theMumble grammar for generation and BBN's Spokesman text planner.
This was delivered toLockheed for integration with DARPA's AirLand Battle Management Program in late 1987.We estimate that this second version of Janus had greater functionality (e.g., not justparaphrase and answer generation, but also multi-paragpraph, multi-page outputgeneration), and that the generator was 2-10 times faster than the first version.4.
Our component research made several direct contributions of technology to BBN's SpokenLanguage Systems effort, including the initial grammar (a unification-based grammar), thesemantic representation language, a parallel parsing algorithm, and components formapping from the semantic representation (an intensional ogic) to code for one or moreapplication systems.
In addition, we are in process of publishing our research results ondealing with errorful, novel, or unclear language; clarification dialogue; centering algorithmsfor reference resolution; knowledge acquisition; and a hybrid semantic representation basedon intensional ogic and a terminological knowledge representation.5.
Our design for seamless interfaces has been adopted in the human-machine interface forDARPA's CASES expert system.6.
Software resulting from our research and development effort has now been distributed (forR&D purposes) to the FCCBMP at the Pacific Fleet Command Center, NOSC, theUniversity of Pennsylvania, the University of Massachusetts, Harvard University, USC/ISI,Texas Instruments, Lockheed Austin Division, RADC, and NSA.441
