SRI International, Speech Research Program, Menlo Park, CAPrincipal Investigators: Jared Bemstein and Hy MurveitObjectives:SRI's Speech Research Program focuses on developing useful speech-based systems andcomponents for enhariced and efficient communication between human users andmachines.
The success of such development depends on accurate modeling of humanspeech and language, and the application of these models in system designs.
SRI's SpeechResearch Program, therefore, pursues both empirical and theoretic research to gain a morecomprehensive understanding of the acoustic, phonological, prosodic, lexical and syntacticnature of speech and language.
SRI works on system internals such as improvedperformance of component technologies, as well as system-level design such as appropriatearchitectures and human factors solutions.
Our specific technical goal is the tightintegration of speech recognition and natural anguage understanding to create real-timesystems for interactive problem solving.Recent Accomplishments:?
SRI has developed the DECIPHER speaker-independent speech recognition system, ahidden Markov model (HMM)-based system that achieves tate-of-the-art recognitionperformance through accurate modeling of phonetic and phonological detail.SRI has completed basic studies of the range and structure of variability in thepronunciation of English.
In particular, SRI has shown significant differences betweenread speech and the spontaneous speech observed unng interactive problem solving.?
SRI has designed ahardware architecture for real-time recognition of continuous peechfor vocabularies as large as 20,000 words.
SRI is currently implementing a subset ofthat architecture as a prototype accelerator with several special-purpose integrated circuits.1989-90 Plans:?
Hardware: Complete the implementation of a prototype accelerator for real-timecontinuous peech recognition.
The accelerator will use HMMs and finite state grammarsto recognize a 3000-word vocabulary.
Fabricate two of these accelerators for use inrelated sponsored research at other sites.
Begin the design and fabrication of the nextgeneration of this hardware.?
Integration of Speech Recognition and Natural Language Understanding: Develop acomputationally efficient natural anguage parser that incrementally generates a statetransition etwork that can be used in place of a finite state grammar in an HMM-basedspeech recognizer.?
Spoken LanGuage System: Design and implement a spoken language interface forinteractive problem solving in the domain of air travel planning.?
Speech Synthesis: Improve the potential efficiency and reliability of voice displays by thesynthesis of very distinct alker identities and the synthesis of audibly different urgencylevels in a meaning-to-speech generation system.?
N~ural-Net-Based Speech Recognition: Compare the relative ffectiveness of neural net,HMM-based, and hybrid approaches for specific speech recognition processes uch asfeature xtraction and pattern classification.237
