RESEARCH IN CONTINUOUS SPEECH RECOGNITIONPIs: John Makhoul and Richard SchwartzBBN STC, 10 Moulton St., Camridge, MA 02138makhoul@bbn.com, schwartz@bbn.comThe primary goal of this basic research is to develop improved methods and models for acousticrecognition of continuous peech.
The work has focussed on developing accurate and detailed mathemat-ical models of phonemes and their coarticulation for the purpose of large-vocabulary continuous peechrecognition.
Important goals of this work are to achieve the highest possible word recognition accuracy incontinuous peech and to develop methods for the rapid adaptation of phonetic models to the voice of anew speaker.Major Accomplishments?
Developed context-dependent phonetic models based on the hidden Markov modeling (HMM) for-malism to describe the acoustic variability of speech due to coarticulafion with neighboring phonemes.The method resulted in a reduction of the word error rate by a factor of two over using context-independent models.?
Developed and demonstrated the effectiveness of the "time-synchronous" search strategy for findingthe most likely sequence of words, given the input speech.?
incorporated the various techniques in a complete continuous peech recognition system, calledBYBLOS, and demonstrated it first in 1986.
It was, and continues to be, the highest-pertbrmingcontinuous recognition system tor large vocabularies.
The basic methodology of BYBLOS has sincebeen adopted by other DARPA sites.?
Developed a new formalism for phonetic modeling, called "stochastic segment modeling", whichcan model the correlation between different parts of a phoneme directly.
Initial experiments with thismodel on context-independent phonetic units reduced the recognition error by a factor of two com-pared to the corresponding context-independent HMM models.
However, the new method requiressignificantly more computation.?
Developed a novel "probabflistic spectral mapping" technique for rapid speaker adaptation wherebythe phonetic models of a new speaker are estimated by performing a transformation  the phoneticmodels of a prototype speaker, using only a small amount of speech from the new speaker.
Using thistechnique, the recognition accuracy with only 2 minutes of training from the new speaker is equalto that usually achieved with 20 minutes of speaker-dependent training or with speaker-independenttraining (which requires peech from over 100 speakers).442
