Summary of Session on Hardware for Spoken Language DemonstrationsRichard SchwartzSUMMARYThree talks were given during the session, followed by some general discussion of the needs of differentresearch groups for demonstration hardware.
The talks were given by:Hy Murveit, SRI International, discussing a high-level design of a speech recognition system usingspecial purpose accelerators;Roberto Bisiani.
CMU, describing a CPU board that supports imple parallel implementations;Elizabeth Mailhot, AT&T Bell Labs, describing the DSP-3 paralle !
processor speech workstation.Hy Murveit described a system in which the different operations necessary for spoken languageunderstanding were performed by different hardware.
The different hardware would initially be ondifferent boards, connected together in a VME card cage.
In particular, the signal acquisition, signalprocessing, and vector quantization are performed on a board with two TMS320C25 chips and sufficientstatic RAM to support hem.
The HMM processing is performed on a special purpose VLSI board that iscapable of updating one HMM state in every cycle.
The initial design runs at 5 MHz and can thereforeprocess up to 3,000 words in real time with no pruning.
The next version will run at 10 MHz, andallow pruning, thus greatly increasing its capacity.
The design is general enough to allow for most ofthe features of all the discrete HMM systems.
It will not allow for HMMs that use continuous densitiesor shared mixtures.
It also may not allow for phonetic models whose context extends beyond the word.The next project will be aimed at replacing the statistical grammar processor with a natural languagefilter driven in a time-synclttronous manner.Roberto Bisiani presented a processor board that supports parallel processing with other similar boards.The initial board goes on a MacIntosh, and there may be a version that goes on a VME bus soon.
TheCPU chip being used currently is the Motorola 88000 which is about twice as fast as a SUN4.
The boardalso contains 8 MB of DRAM for current memory chips, which will increase to 32 MB for the nextgeneration of 4 Mb chips.
Bisiani pointed out that processors are already too fast for their memories.so faster processors won't help.
Instead, he recommends parallel processing.
Therefore, this board hasspecml purpose hardware for allowing several boards to access shared memory that might exist on adifferent board.
Bisiani has an optimized version of the HMM decoder that can perform the searchalmost in real time on one board for the basic algorithm.Elizabeth Mailhot from AT&T Bell Labs presented the latest version of the ASPEN multiprocessor,which is called DSP3.
The system is based on the DSP32C processor.
Each board will contain 16DSP32C nodes and each processor can have 64 KB of static RAM for current chips and 256 KB for nextgeneration memory.
The DSP32C has a theoretical peak of 25 MFlops.
Two significant changes that havehappened since the previous version (BT100) is that the different processors can be (software) configuredin many different arrangements, and is not limited to a binary tree.
In addition, the communicationbetween the processors is at a much higher rate of 40 MB/s instead of 1 MB/s.
A wdeo tape demo ofreal-time recognition of the FCCBMP domain on the BTI00 was shown.
Finally, a speech workstationis being designed around the DSP3.
It contains a SUN, A/D-D/A hardware, a WORM drive, and theDSP3.After the presentations, there was some discussion of what hardware they would want to have for437their demonstrations.
A few sites (BBN, CMU,.and SRI) said they .would want a copy of the VLSIdiscrete HMM board, even thoug h it was not completely general.
Several more sites said they wouldlike to look at the 88000 board, since it was more general and might eventually support research as wellas demonstrations.438
