PORTING TO NEW DOMAINS USING THE LEARNER *mRober t  J. P. IngnaLance RamshawBBN Systems and Techno log ies  Corporat ionCambr idge ,  MA 02138ABSTRACTAcquiring syntactic and semantic information about anew application domain for a natural anguage process-ing system is often a time-consuming task.
To addressthis problem, various researchers have developed ac-quisition tools to speed the process.
While such toolsare very useful, they are typically tied to particular sys-tems and so their benefits cannot be shared by otherresearchers.In this paper, we discuss an experiment using theLeamer--a software tool for acquiring information abouta new task domain for Parlance, l an ATN-based naturallanguage system---to configure a quite different naturallanguage system, the BBN ACFG, a unification-basedsystem.We have used the Learner to produce information inthree major areas: syntactic and semantic informationabout the lexical items used in the new domain; transla-tion rules from the parser output to the application sys-tem; and a class grammar for use in the speech recog-nition component of HARC, the BBN spoken languagesystem.Initial results are encouraging: 1499 lexical items havebeen acquired, of which 91% were directly usable, with-out any manual editing; all of the translation rules areusable; and a speech vocabulary of 2170 items, with anassociated class grammar with a perplexity of 89, hasbeen acquired with a small amount of manual editing.INTRODUCTIONA major problem that restricts the usefulness of naturallanguage processing systems is the cost, in time and ef-fort, of porting a system to a new domain.
Typically, the1 Learner and Parlance are trademarks of Bolt Beranek and NewmanInc.system designers are not experts in the application do-main in which their system will be used, although theyhave the knowledge of syntax, semantics, and knowledgerepresentation to configure the system.
The end users,on the other hand, are experts in the application domain,but are almost always unversed in computational linguis-tics.
Thus, the people who can most efficiently modifythe system do not know what is necessary for a givendomain, while the experts in that domain do not have thelinguistic knowledge to perform the modifications them-selves.
Typically, then, the system designers pend longperiods of time, on the order of months or even years,trying to acquire expertise in a domain and "tweaking"their systems to perform well in it, or else they try toimpart just enough knowledge of syntax and semanticsto the end users to allow them to do the configurationthemselves.
At best, these approaches result in a work-ing version of the system, but at enormous cost; at worst,the end product is a not very usable system.This problem is sometimes referred to as the "knowl-edge acquisition bottle neck": how can the knowledgeof an application area be combined with the knowledgeof a working system and its component technologies toproduce a useful system without placing heavy burdenson either the end users or the system designers?THE LEARNERSome researchers have addressed this problem by devel-oping acquisition tools targeted for end users, to allowthem to provide the syntactic and semantic informationnecessary for the NL system, but without requiring themto become xperts in these areas.
Such tools usually takethe burden of providing detailed syntactic and semanticanalyses off the user through a guided acquisition pro-ccedure (either with menus or questions) and through theuse of queries couched in terms of actual examples oflanguage usage, rather than in terms from syntactic or se-mantic analysis (e.g.
by asking "Can you say 'Someone241deployed something?'"
rather than "Is 'deploy' tran-sitive?")
Such acquisition tools include the acquisitioncomponent of TEAM (Grosz, 1983), the LapltUp lexicalacquisition package for the JANUS system (Cummingand Albano, 1986), and the TELI system's emantic ac-quisiton facility (Ballard and Stumberger, 1986).BBN has developed a software package, the Learner, asa porting tool for non-expert users (Bates, 1989; BBNParlance Learner Manual, 1989).
The Learner creates anumber of files that are used to configure the Parlancenatural anguage processing system for a new applica-tion domain in a short time.
Like the tools already men-tioned, it uses an interactive, guided procedure to acquiresyntactic and semantic information from the user.
It alsoacquires information about the structure and content ofthe database directly from the database itself.
Previouswork with the Learner (Bates, 1989) has demonstrateda speed-up of ten times or more, compared to manualacquisition of the same information.Recently, we have begun porting our ACFG naturallanguage system (Boisen, et al 1989b) to a personneldatabase domain, a domain for which Parlance had beenconfigured using the Learner.
This raised the possibilityof using the output files created by the Learner as knowl-edge sources for components of the ACFG system.
Thisis a particularly interesting test, since the Learner is notdesigned to be a general acquisition tool for arbitrarynatural language processing systems, but is optimizedto produce information ecessary for the Parlance sys-tem.
While Parlance is an ATN-based system, the BBNACFG utilizes a unification grammar formalism, similarto a Definite-Clause Grammar; the two systems, then,are quite different.
If, despite this difference, the sameLearner output could be used to configure the ACFGsystem, this would suggest hat the speed-up of usingthe Learner to port to a new domain already demon-strated for the Parlance system, could be extended to theACFG system and, perhaps, to similar unification basedgrammars.USING LEARNER OUTPUTWe have taken the output files produced by the Learnerand developed software tools to convert hem into formsusable by the ACFG system.
We have experimentedwith acquiring three kinds of knowledge:?
Syntactic and Semantic Information?
Database Information?
Words and Word ClassesIn the rest of this section, we discuss in somewhat moredetail the information provided by the Learner in eachof these areas.
In the next section, we discuss the resultsof our efforts.SYNTACTIC AND SEMANTIC INFORMATIONWe have used Learner output to acquire lexical entriesfor the open class categories: nouns (both common andproper), adjectives, and verbs, that include both syntac-tic and semantic information.
For each of these cate-gories, the Learner provides any necessary molphologi-cal information, such as inflectional paradigm (e.g.
thatcity forms its plural by affixing -es), associated irregularforms (e.g.
that got is the past tense of get), etc.
In ad-dition, the Learner outputs information specific to eachcategory:Nouns: For ordinary entity type nouns, such as pro-grammer, the Learner provides information aboutthe semantic type of the noun and of the underly-ing concept with which it is associated (e.g.
thata programmer is one of type person whose area ofexpertise is programming).
For relational nouns,such as salary, the Learner provides informationabout the underlying relation associated with thenoun, the domain of the relation, and the range ofthe relation (e.g.
that the underlying relation ofsalary is salary-of, which applies to a person andproduces a monetary-amount).Adjectives: For adjectives, the Learner provides infor-marion about he type of noun to which the adjectivecan be applied and about the underlying functionwith which the adjective is associated (e.g.
the ad-jective asian american is applied to nouns of typeperson and is true of those whose ethnic group isasian-american).Verbs: For verbs, the Learner provides informationabout the underlying relation associated with theverb, the type restrictions associated with its nounphrase arguments, as well as any prepositions thatthe verb may select; for example, for the verb grad-uate, a noun of type person does the graduating,242the preposition from is used to mark the place fromwhich the graduation took place, which is a nounof type school.In addition to information about specific lexical items,the Learner produces information about the underlyingconcepts of the domain; for example, that there is arelation gender-of that applies to persons and producesa result of type genders.
We have also used the Learneroutput o acquire this information.DATABASE INFORMATIONAs part of its output, the Learner produces a file of pat-tern transformation rules, which map from concepts inthe semantic domain model---and, so, ultimately, fromwords associated with those concepts--to fields in thedata base.
This file contains the information that al-lows the associated natural anguage system to actuallyobtain an answer from the database.
Since the databasesystem used in the ACFG system--described in (Boisen,1989)---is essentially a modified version of that used byParlance, these rules are straightforwardly usable.WORDS AND WORD CLASSESWe have also used the Learner to acquire a set of vo-cabulary items and word classes for a class grammar(Derr and Schwartz, 1989) for use in HARC, the BBNSpoken Language System (Boisen, et al 1989a), whichincorporates the ACFG system as its natural anguagecomponent.
Though the Learner does not directly pro-duce a class grammar, we used the syntactic ategories,semantic lasses, and inflectional paradigms and formswhich it provides to produce a class grammar.
To cre-ate a complete set of words for our speech recognitionsystem, we did not use the Learner output directly, sinceit only contains the base and irregularly inflected formsof words, but a lexicon that was created on the basis ofthe Learner output and which included inflected forms,as well.RESULTSSince our experiment in obtaining information from ex-isting Learner output was performed at the same timethat we were writing the code to perform the necessarytranslations, we cannot measure the efficiency of usingthe Learner output in terms of elapsed time or personweeks.
Therefore, as a rough measure of the benefits ofusing Learner output as a source, we propose to comparethe number of items obtained from the translation pro-gram which were usable without further manual modifi-cation with the number that required some hand editing.SYNTACTIC AND SEMANTIC INFORMATIONA total of 1499 lexical items were acquired from theLearner output; of these 1379 (91%) were directly us-able, without any human intervention.
Since there weremany proper nouns in the lexicon obtained, and sinceproper nouns typically did not need to be edited, wealso present he percentage of lexical items that wereimmediately usable excluding the proper nouns, so thattheir presence does not bias the result; in this case, 74%of the derived lexicai items were directly usable.
Theseresults are shown in the following table:Total # "As Is" % "As Is"All Words 1499 1379 91%- Proper Nouns 504 375 74%Some comments are in order about he manual editfingrequired.
In the case of nouns and adjectives, someeditting was required for syntactic and morphologicalfeatures, owing to differences between the grammars ofthe Parlance and ACFG systems.
All of the semanticinformation for nouns and adjectives, however, was leftuntouched.
In the case of verbs, on the other hand, thedifference between the Learner and ACFG semantic rep-resentations was too great o allow automatic acquisitionof semantic information; for verb entries, the semanticportion was written by hand.
However, even in the caseof verbs, the semantic information was not written fromscratch; rather, the semantic entry for each verb wasa manual translation of the information in the Learneroutput.We also obtained a total of 109 semantic oncepts fromthe Parlance output, which were used in the semantic en-tries of lexical items.
These concepts required no manualeditting at all.DATABASE INFORMATIONFor this domain, the Learner produced 65 translationrules, all of wMch were usable unedited.243WORDS AND WORD CLASSESThe lexicon derived from the Learner was used to createa speech vocabulary of 2170 items, with an associatedclass grammar of 637 classes with a perplexity of 89,with a small amount of manual editing.CONCLUSIONWe have demonstrated that it is possible to use Learneroutput o produce information that is usable in the BBNACFG system.
This result is remarkable for a number ofreasons.
First, it suggests that the great boost in produc-tivity reported in (Bates, 1989) by using the Learner toport the Parlance system may be extended to the ACFGsystem.
Since the ACFG system is based on a unifica-tion grammar and parser, this, in turn, suggests that theLearner might be useful for other unification-base ys-tems.
Since the Learner was designed with the Parlancesystem in mind, the fact that its output is usable by asystem based on a radically different grammar formal-ism and parsing algorithm may indicate that there hasbeen a sufficient convergence in syntactic and analytictechniques, at least in the database retrieval area, to al-low tools developed for one framework or system to beuseful to others, as well.AcknowledgmentsThe work reported here was supported by the AdvancedResearch Projects Agency and was monitored by the Of-fice of Naval Research under Contract No.
N00014-89-C-0008.
The views and conclusions contained in thisdocument are those of the authors and should not be in-terpreted as necessarily representing the official policies,either expressed or implied, of the Defense AdvancedResearch Projects Agency or the United States Govern-ment.ReferencesBBN Parlance Learner Manual (1989) BBN Systemsand Technologies Corporation, Cambridge, Mas-sachusetts.B.
Ballard and D. Stumberger (1986)"Semantic Acquisition in TELI: A Transportable,User-Customized Natural Language Processor" In24th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics: Proceedings of the Conference,Association for Computational Linguistics, Morris-town, NJ, pages 20--29.Madeleine Bates (1989) "Rapid Porting of the ParlanceNatural Language Interface" In Proceedings of theSpeech and Natural Language Workshop February1989, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, Inc., San Ma-teo, California, pages 83-88.Sean Boisen (1989) The SLS Personnel Database (Re-lease 1), SLS Notes No 2, BBN Systems and Tech-nologies Corporation, Cambridge, Massachusetts.S.
Boisen, Y. Chow, A. Haas, R. Ingria, S. Roucos,R.
Scha, D. StaUard and M. Vilain (1989a) Integra-tion of Speech and Natural Language: Final Report,Report No.
6991, BBN Systems and TechnologiesCorporation, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Sean Boisen, Yen-Lu Chow, Andrew Haas, Robert In-gria, Salim Roukos, and David Stallard (1989b)"The BBN Spoken Language System" In Proceed-ings of the Speech and Natural Language WorkshopFebruary 1989, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, Inc.,San Mateo, California, pages 106--111.Susanna Cumming and Robert Albano (1986) A Guideto Lexical Acquisition in the JANUS System ISIResearch Report ISI/RR-85-162, ISI, Marina delRey/California.Alan Derr and Richard Schwartz (1989)"A Simple Statistical Class Grammar for Measur-ing Speech Recognition Performance" In Proceed-ings of the Speech and Natural Language WorkshopOctober 1989, Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, Inc.,San Mateo, California.Barbara J. Grosz (1983) "TEAM: A TransportableNatural-language Interface System" In Conferenceon Applied Natural Language Processing: Proceed-ings of the Conference, Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, Morristown, NJ, pages 39-45.244
