SPOKEN LANGUAGE SYSTEMSPI: John MakhoulBBN STC, 10 Moulton St., Cambridge, MA 02138makhoul@ bbn.comThe objective of this project is to develop a spoken language system capable of understanding andresponding to spoken English commands and queries for interactive human-machine applications, uch asbattle management, command and control, and training of personnel on complex tasks.
The system willalso include a capability to adapt o new speakers and a capability to detect when a user says a new word,and allows the user to add the word to the system.Work in this area requires the integration of three technologies: large-vocabulary continuous peechrecognition, natural anguage understanding, and system integration.
In our work at BBN, we have in-tegrated our BYBLOS continuous peech recognition technology with a new unification-based naturallanguage understanding component, resulting in an initial complete spoken language system, called HARC(Hear And Respond to Continuous peech).Our most recent contribution is the development of a new strategy for integrating speech and naturallanguage components, called "N-best".
This method takes a spoken utterance and produces the N highestscoring sentences that match the input utterance withing some threshold, based on a statistical languagemodel.
The natural anguage component then searches these N sentences for the highest scoring sentencefor which the system can produce a semantic interpretation.
The meaning representations are passed to adiscourse component that resolves reference ambiguities and chooses the best meaning.
Finally, the chosenmeaning representation is passed to a response component which carries out the user's request.Initial experiments have shown that for applications of interest, the correct sentence is usually oneof the top five and almost always within the top twenty (i.e., N=20).
One important feature of this N-bestintegration strategy is that it provides a very clean interface between speech and natural anguage and,therefore, allows for greater sharing of resources among researchers in spoken language systems.The natural language knowledge sources in HARC use a Unification formalism for describingthe syntax and semantics of English and a higher-order intensional logic for representing the meaningof an utterance.
The system uses unification to enforce syntactic as well as semantic onstraints, andprovides for the incremental application of syntax and semantics.
Advantages of this approach are thatunproductive search paths are cut off more quickly, and any improvements in unification parsing (throughbetter algorithms, special hardware, etc.)
apply automatically to semantics as well as syntax.in this project, we have been very instrumental in the design and collection of spoken languagedata for the purpose of objective system evaluation.
We previously helped specify the DARPA ResourceManagement Corpus that is now in common use for speech recognition evaluation, and we provided aWord-Pair Grammar to be used with the corpus.
We have recently developed and made available to theDARPA community, with full documentation, a personnel database for use in spoken language valuations,and a relational database language (ERL) in Common LISP to interface to the database.
We have alsoprovided software to aid in the collection of an appropriate corpus by Texas Instruments.Most recently, we have started work on the automatic detection of out-of-vocabulary words.
Thisis an important problem for any realistic system with a large vocabulary, since the user is unlikely to beable to remember which words are in the vocabulary.
Imtial results for the detection of open-class woldshave been very encouraging.443
