REPORT ON SESSION I: PROSODIC AIDS TO SPEECH RECOGNITIONChair: Lynette HirschmanFour papers were presented in the opening session of the conference.The papers were "Prosody and Parsing" by P.J.
Price (SRI), M. Ostendorf (Bos-ton University), and C.W.
Wightman (Boston University), "Timing Models forProsody and Cross-word Coarticulation in Connected Speech" by M. Beckman(Ohio State University), "Intonational Meaning in the Interpretation ofDiscourse," by J. Hirschberg (AT&T Bell Laboratories), and "Structure andIntonation in Spoken Language Systems," by M. Steedman (University ofPennsylvania).
Price et al reported on the use of prosodic information toresolve several types of syntactic ambiguities, the development of a prosodicinformation coding system suitable for a parser, and the development ofautomatic algorithms for extracting prosodic information.
(Work jointly sup-ported by NSF and DARPA.)
Mary Beckman reported on work in articulatorydynamics which suggests a new approach to the use of durational informationin continuous speech recognition.
New models of articulatory gesture allow foruseful distinctions among the timing effects found in global tempo increase,phrase-final lengthening, and sentence accent.
(Work supported by NSF.)
JuliaHirschberg reported on work in empirical observation of the pragmatic uses ofselected pitch contours.
In addition, her report addressed the need for betterspeech data (goal-directed speech in a specific task domain) on which to testhypotheses about the interaction of prosodic constructs with the other com-ponents of a spoken language understanding system, particularly semantics andpragmatics.
(Work supported by AT~T Bell Laboratories.)
Mark Steedmanreported on work in the description of intonational and syntactic structures in acombinatory extension of categorlal grammar.
Combinatory categorial gram-mar predicts syntactic units which align with boundaries in the intonationalstructure, thus helping to clarify the structure of an utterance for spokenlanguage understanding.
(Work supported by DARPA and NSF.)
