Generalized Consultation Systems and Knowledge AcquisitionRobert WilenskyDepartment of EECSUniversity of California, BerkeleyBerkeley, CA 94720Object ivesWe are developing the technology to provide helpful, natural language-capable consultationsystems for arbitrary domains.
Our approach is to develop a "'Domain Independent Retar-getable Consultant" (DIRC).
DIRC is essentially a kit that one will be able to convert intoan intelligent, NL-capable consultant for any domain by supplying the appropriateknowledge.
We are also developing the knowledge acquisition technology to support DIRC.P rev ious  AccomplishmentsWe have previously constructed a UNIX Consultant (UC), an intelligent NL-capable "help"facility that allows naive users to learn about the UNIX operating system.
We have alsodeveloped some techniques for extending the knowledge base and vocabulary of this system,namely, a system that allows an expert to add information in natural language, and onewhich hypothesizes new word senses by making metaphorical extrapolations.PlansWe intend for every DIRC kit to come with a core vocabulary and extensive grammar, andbuild in most of the relevant pragmatics.
However, supplying the vocabulary, constructionsand world knowledge for each domain is approached as a knowledge acquisition problem.In particular, we plan to develop the technology for the automatic acquisition of domainknowledge by reading.
A prototype version of such a system, called MANDI.
is currentlyunder construction, and is targeted to acquire knowledge about UNIX by reading the on-line UNIX manual.We are also developing techniques for the automatic acquisition of the lexicon.
Ourapproach involves a theory of word sense relations that can help a system to acquire newword senses given old ones.
The essential idea is to exploit subregularities that existamong, but do not successful predict, word senses.
We have previously exploited one kindof subregularity, namely, metaphorical word sense relations.
However, there appear to bemany other useful subregularities.We plan to use this theory in at least two lexical acquisition methods, one whichhypothesizes new word meanings in context, and an intelligent dictionary reader.
Utilizingdictionary entries requires at least the language analysis required to comprehend ordinarytext.
We plan supplement such understanding with knowledge of word sense relations tohelp correctly interpret dictionary entries.Since inference plays an important role in the sort of text processing we propose, we havealso been developing a general abductive inference method, based on probability theory.An initial implementation is being constructed to deal with the interpretation of nominalcompounds.444
