Eva luat ing  the  Use  o f  P rosod ic  In fo rmat ion  in  SpeechRecogn i t ion  and  Unders tand ingMari Ostendorf Patti PriceBoston University SRI InternationalObjective:The goal of this project is to investigate the use of different levels of prosodic information inspeech recognition and understanding.
The work will involve determining which aspects ofprosody are useful in speech recognition and understanding, developing reliable algorithmsfor analysis of prosodic information, and incorporating these into a Spoken Language System(SLS) being developed at SRI.
Our approach is multi-disciplinary: combining linguistictheory, speech knowledge and statistical modeling techniques.
This research is sponsoredjointly by DARPA and NSF, and is coordinated with another NSF project entitled "ProsodyAnalysis/Synthesis U ing Probabilistic Models and Linguistic Theory.
"Summary of Accomplishments:?
Specified conventions for labeling prosodic phenomena and hand-labelled several min-utes of speech with this convention.?
Developed a method to automatically phonetically label and align speech data giventhe orthographic transcription using the SRI HMM word recognition system.?
Conducted perceptual experiments with phonetically ambiguous entences to examinethe role of prosody in parsing.?
Developed a formalism for providing prosodic information - phrase boundaries (orword connectivity) and lexical stress - to a parser.?
Developed and evaluated algorithms for automatically extracting word connectivityvalues based on duration and pause cues, and predicting lexical stress from durationcues.Plans:?
Analyze recognition and parsing errors to understand what aspects of prosody will bemost important to a spoken language system and what components of the system coulduse this information.Develop a phrase boundary detection algorithm using breaths, pauses, boundary tonesand duration information and evaluate accuracy with respect o hand-labelled ata.Develop a formalism for incorporating phrase boundary information into a parser andevaluate the usefulness of hand-labeled and automatically detected boundary informa-tion in the SRI spoken language system.445
