New Mexico State UniversityComputing Research LaboratoryTeam members:Yorick Wilks, David Farwell,Afzal Ballim, Roger HartleyCRL's contribution to DARPA's program is to bring to bear on natural languageunderstanding two closely-related belief and context mechanisms: dynamic generation ofnested belief structures (ViewGen) and hypotheses for reasoning and problem-solving(MOR).Cooperation and Planning in a Multiactor System.
The ViewGen project investigatestheoretical issues in the area of belief systems that pertain to human-computer interaction(communication and cooperative planning).
We are using the results to implement a systemthat reasons and interacts with people in a limited but real domain and incorporates the firstperspicuous default algorithm for belief ascription in a concrete domain.
Research hasshown that effective communication between a computer and a human-in other words, thesystem and the user-requires modeling of the various beliefs which each has about the topicof conversation.
This project is aimed at generating, from the system's own beliefs, the viewsof people on demand.
These views can then be used in reasoning and cooperative processes.This project is the first to offer a theory of dynamic construction of nested belief structures,or viewpoints, and the heuristics associated with such constructions.
We developed an initialprogram called ViewGen that generates nested viewpoints (what some person believes isanother person's view of some topic), and the results and insights obtained from this programare being used to develop the larger belief system.Model Generative Reasoning.
Current expert system technology performs effectively onwell-defined problems within closed worlds.
However, it is brittle when problems are illdefined, data are incomplete, and solutions require integration of knowledge from manydifferent subject domains.
These conditions characterize many real-world applications.The model generative reasoning (MGR) system is a significant advance in existingtechnology.
The MGR algorithm provides a general framework for constructing, comparing,and evaluating hypothetical models of queried events using abductive assembly; that ismodels are assembled from definitions of general domain concepts to provide alternativeexplanations for the query and related assumptions.Explanations are developed progressively through a generate-evaluate cycle.
Assumptionsare interpreted using concept definitions and then joined to form alternative descriptions(contexts) of the domain structures.
Contexts are merged next with procedural informationto form programs.
These programs can then be run in an environment of facts (observationsand necessary truths) to generate models.
Last, models are evaluated for their parsimonyand explanatory power, providing either a problem solution(s) or the assumptions for thenext round of interpretation.Comparison and Evaluation of Parser Performance.
Our proposal for the evaluation ofnatural language processing systems is an adaptation of the objective procedures forevaluating machine translation systems developed during the 1960's and 1970's.
It is193designed to avoid system particular or approach particular bias.
We propose to treatindividual analysis systems (parsers) as black boxes which cannot be adjusted duringexperimental trials.
We establish (1) a standard vocabulary, (2) a standard generator and(3) a set of structure protocols which are applied to the output of the parsers.
Each parser isrun on a given text (containing only the standard vocabulary).
The resultant representationis "interpreted" by the structure protocols o as to produce an appropriate representation forthe standard generator.
The generator then produces a second text or set of texts.
Thetexts, input and output, are, in turn, used as a test corpus for various well-establishedprocedures in which, generally, human subjects are asked if they can abstract moreinformation from the input text (having been first provided with an output text) or from anoutput text (having been first provided with the input text).
To the extent hat the subjectsare able to do so, the black box analysis has failed since if the two texts were perfectparaphrases no such information could possibly be gained or lost.194
