THE PENMAN LANGUAGE GENERATION PROJECTInformation Sciences Instituteof the University of Southern CaliforniaWilliam C. MannEduard H. Ho WThe Penman Project at USC/ISI has been conducting research in natural languageprocessing since 1978.
It presently consists of six technical staff, organized into threeprincipal efforts.
The first two are funded by DARPA: - Natural language generation(Penman)- Text structure development ( ext planning)- Natural language understanding (parsing)The natural language sentence generation program Penman provides computationaltechnology for generating English sentences and paragraphs, starting with inputspecifications of a non-linguistic kind.
The research goals underlying Penman are threefold:to provide a useful and theoretically motivated resource for other research and developmentgroups and the computational community at large, to provide a framework in which toconduct investigations into the nature of language, and eventually to provide a textgeneration system that can be used routinely by system developers.
Penman is being used bycomputer scientists (as the output medium of their programs, among others projects inhuman-computer  communication, expert system explanation, and interface design) and bylinguists (as a reference and research tool).Nigel, the English grammar, is the heart of the single-sentence component of Penman.Nigel is a network of over 600 nodes, each node representing a single minimal grammaticalalternation.
Nigel is based on the theory of systemic linguistics (a theory of language andcommunication developed by Halliday and others).
Penman contains a noun group plannerthat is still under development.
It also contains a number of additional informationresources, such as a lexicon of words and a very general taxonomic model of the world,which is used to categorize the entities of any domain for which it is to generate language.Finally, over the last two years, we have been investigating the planning and generation ofmultisentential paragraphs.
In order to plan coherent order of clauses, we used relationsfrom Rhetorical Structure Theory of Mann and Thompson, operationalized in the form ofplans.
Using these plans, the text structure planner operates in top-down hierarchicexpansion fashion, patterned after the system NOAH.Penman is currently being used by three domains at USC/ISI:- An integrated multimedia interface system (II), in which paragraphs of English text,planned and generated by Penman, are combined with maps, menus and other displaymethods, so as to be suitable for command and control use.
The II Project is being led byDr.
Yigal Arens.- The Program Enhancement Advisor (PEA) is an experimental expert system thatinteractively advises programmers on how their Lisp programs might be improved.
Itcontains an explanation facility that uses Penman's grammar to generate text that explainshow PEA works.
PEA is being developed as a Ph.D. project by Johanna Moore.- The Digital Circuit Diagnosis ystem (DCD) is an experimental expert system that diagnosesfaults in digital hardware.
Like PEA, it contains an explanation facility that uses Penman'sgrammar to generate output.
Text is generated that explains the definitions off entities within151DCD and the reasoning that lead to the diagnosis.
DCD is being developed by Dr. CecileParis.Recent achievements include the development of an input notation that is very flexible andeasy to use, as well as the completion of a set of documentation about Penman.
We havestarted istributing the system at a nominal cost, and are constantly searching for new users.Penman is one of the most comprehensive language generation programs in the world today;it can generate, in some way, almost any information that can be represented.
Our goals areto extend Penman and to provide ways of controlling it in order to generate multiple versionsof the same input, as well as to complete the paragraph structure and noun group planners.152
