Univers i ty  o f  Pennsy lvan iaTitle: Natura l  Language ResearchPrincipal Investigators: Aravind Joshi, Mitch Marcus (Co-PI) ,  Mark Steedman (Co-H) ,Bonnie Webber  (Co-PI)Project Summary: The main objective is the development ofnatural anguage interactive systems.
Based onour earlier work on cooperative systems for interaction through language, further significant contributionswere made in the following major areas: (1) development of linguistic formalisms (syntax, semantics, andpragmatics) and the corresponding algorithms; (2) extensions of deterministic parsing; (3) some aspects ofdiscourse coherence; (4) some aspects of tense and anaphora; (5) a theory of response structure and responsegeneration; and (6) initiation of research in information carried by intonation and its role in spoken languagesystems.The basic research and system development is expected to lead to: (1) characterization f informationcarried by (a) syntax, semantics, and discourse structure, (b) their relationship to information carried byintonation, (c) development of methods for applying their information in generation and understanding;(2) development of architecture for integration of utterance planning, lexical, syntactic, and intonationalchoice; (3) development of incremental strategies for applying syntactic, semantic and pragmatic knowledgein understanding and generating language, especially spoken language.Summary of accomplishments:Accomplishments before FY 88:?
Preliminary design of a modular architecture for system integration for cooperative r sponses;?
Integration of RTM (Rus-Text-Mumble) with DECTALK, providing output for RTM;?
Completed pilot system for converting machine fficient proofs as input to natural anguage generationsystems.Accomplishments for FY88:?
Completed the design and development of a flexible architecture for a multi-functional cooperativeresponse system;?
Development oflinguistic formalisms for integrating syntax and semantics.
Preliminary implementationof the algorithms.
Established convergence of several formalisms;?
Characterization of tense and anaphora in discourse;?
Extension of deterministic parsing;?
Development of an architecture for interaction between the strategic and tactical components of ageneration system.Objectives for FY89:?
Characterization f the information carried by syntax, semantics, discourse, and intonation and its usein generation and understanding;?
Further development and implementation f deterministic parsing systems;?
Pilot implementation of the multi-functional cooperative response systems;?
Design and integration of a sizable grammar in the TAG parsing algorithms.
Development of newstrategies based on 'lexicalized' grammars;?
Development of incremental strategies for language processing (understanding and generation), espe-cially in spoken language.209
