Speech Research at Carnegie MellonPrincipal Investigator: Raj ReddyCamegie Mellon has been active in speech recognition research for over 20 years.
Research in the 70'sled to important systems uch as Hearsay, Harpy, and Dragon.
Since 1980, the Carnegie Mellon speechgroup has been exploring techniques for speaker-independent r cognition.
Various avenues have beenexplored, including a knowledge ngineering approach to identify robust speech features that areindependent of speaker and environment, and a statistical learning system that utilizes human knowledgeand detailed speech modeling.The latter system, Sphinx, was demonstrated in 1987.
It was the first recognition system that canaccurately recognize continuous speech from a large vocabulary by any speaker, without raining.
Thiswas accomplished through the availability of ample training, the use of a powerful earning algorithm,and the design of detailed speech models.
In 1988, Sphinx was ported to the Beam search accelerationmachine, which made real-time recognition a reality.
In 1988, the Minds System was demonstrated.Minds uses Sphinx and Beam, and demonstrates the utility of dialog and semantic knowledge inimproving recognition accuracy.The overall goal of speech research at Carnegie Mellon is to develop new technologies that address themajor problems currently inhibiting automatic speech recognition in realistic environments.
Areas forfuture work include:?
Improved Recognition Techniques - -  We are developing a 5000- to 20,000-wordvocabulary, speaker independent, connected speech, spoken English recognition system withperplexity of approximately 200.
To obtain a high accuracy on such a difficult ask, we mustimprove Sphinx substantially.
We plan to investigate better subword modeling, improvedlearning algorithms, and rapid configuration for new vocabularies and tasks.?
Fluent Human/Machine Interfaces - -  We will investigate, measure, and improve the utilityof speech in several day-to-day interactive tasks that involve collaborative, human/computerproblem solving.?
Acoustical and Environmental Robustness - -  We are working to improve the robustnessof Sphinx against changes in microphone, noise characteristics, and environmental acoustics.Areas of research include employing multiple microphones, noise-subtracting, andhomomorphic filtering.?
Understanding Spontaneous Spoken Language - -  We are work on the problematicphenomena associated with spontaneous speech, such as repetitions and restarts, speech-likenoise ("um"s and "ah"s), and interruptions.
The "missing science" includes techniquesfor understanding fragmentary input and for parsing in the presence of errors.?
Task Semantics and Pragmatics - -  Our recent research on the Minds system has shownthat effective use of knowledge from dialogue, task-level semantics, and user models canreduce perplexity over ten fold.
In the future, we intend to demonstrate he utility of suchtechniques in a wide range of domains.We are also working on spoken language applications in several domains, including officemanagement, form-filling, and travel management.
We hope the fusion of the above technology will leadto a new generation of accurate and robust spoken language systems448
