White Paper onNatural Language ProcessingRalph Weiscbedel, ChairpersonBBN Systems and Technologies CorporationJaime CarbonellCarnegie-Mellon UniversityBarbara GroszHarvard University?
Wendy LehnertUniversity of Massachusetts, AmherstMitchell MarcusUniversity of PennsylvaniaRaymond PerraultSRI InternationalRobert WilenskyUniversity of California, BerkeleyI.
Scope1.1.
Ma jor  Chal lengesWe take the ultimate goal of natural language processing (NLP) to be the ability to use natural languagesas effectively as humans do.
Natural anguage, whether spoken, written, or typed, is the most natural means ofcommunication between humans, and the mode of expression of choice for most of the documents hey produce.
Ascomputers play a larger ole in the preparation, acquisition, transmission, monitoring, storage, analysis, andtransformation f information, endowing them with the ability to understand and generate information expressed innatural languages becomes more and more necessary.
Some tasks currently performed by humans cannot beautomated without endowing computers with natural language processing capabilities, and these provide two majorchallenges to NLP systems:1.
Reading and writing text, applied to tasks such as message routing, abstracting, monitoring, summarizing, andentering information i  databases, with applications, in such areas as intelligence, logistics, office automation, andlibraries.
Computers should be able to assimilate and compose xtended communications.2.
Translation, of documents or spoken language, with applications, in such areas as in science, diplomacy,multinational commerce, and intelligence.
Computers should be able to understand input in more than onelanguage, provide output in more than one language, and translate between languages.The dominance of natural language as a means of communication in a broad range of interactions amonghumans uggests that it would be an attractive medium in human-computer interaction as well.
The case isparticularly strong where the environment precludes the use of keyboard, display, and mouse, so that spoken aturallanguage is almost he only alternative.
However, speech recognition alone will not suffice in these settings.
Wordsand phrases must be parsed and interpreted so that their intended meaning (as command, query, or assertion) may bedetermined and an appropriate r sponse formulated and expressed.481Even where other devices are available, the artificial anguages they give the user access to -- menu andicon selection, and programming, command, and database query languages -- are limited.
Menus and icons make iteasy to present the user with the available options at any time, but they constrain the user to operating on visibleobjects only.
It is also awkward or impossible to operate on sets of objects elected by complex properties (e.g.,"Send all the C3 ships with RRI radar to the nearest port").
Programming and other "l inear" artificial anguagesoffer well-defined control structures but axe more difficult to learn, and do not take advantage of pointing to objectson the screen.
Moreover, they typically require substantial knowledge of underlying representations, and they offerthe user little guidance as to what can be done next.
In fact, interaction with computers in any artificial anguageplaces on the user most of the burden of discovering how to express in the language the commands necessary toachieve the desired objective.
It is natural for humans using natural languages to state complex conditions, tointegrate these with pointing, and to negotiate how a task could and should be done.
Natural anguage should,however, be seen as a powerful addition to the repertoire of methods for human-machine interaction, and not as areplacement for those methods.Thus, the third major challenge of natural language processing is3.
Interactive dialogue, allowing humans imple, effective access to computer systems, using natural language andother modalities, for problem-solving, decision-making, and control.
Application areas include database access,command and control, factory control, office automation, logistics, and computer-assisted instruction.
Human-machine interaction should be as natural, facile, and multi-modal as interaction among humans.While it will be quite some time before systems meet hese challenges with the depth and flexibility thathumans bring to them, useful shorter term goals of economic value have been and can continue to be met.
Theseinclude database access ystems, multi-modal interfaces to expert systems and simulators, processing of text (e.g.,for database update), and semi-automatic machine translation systems.Virtually all developments necessary to long- and short-term progress toward these goals will be relevantto the transition from speech recognition systems to spoken language systems (SLS), which is the subject of aseparate report o this committee.
However, in this report we will not have anything ~rther to say specifically aboutSLSs or their attendant problems in speech signal processing,1.2.
Barr iers  to P rogress1.2.1.
Success and Limitations Thus FarNLP systems perform three related functions: analysis (or interpretation) of the input, mapping it into anexpression i some meaning representation la guage (MRL); reasoning about he interpretation to determine thecontent of what should be produced in response to the user, perhaps accessing information i  databases, expertsystems, etc: and finally, generation of a response, perhaps as a natural-language utterance or text.
In translationsystems, the "response" is in a language different from the input language.The most visible results in NLP in the last five years are several commercially available systems fordatabase question-answering.
These systems, the result of transferring technology developed in the 1970s and early1980s, have been successfully used to improve productivity by replacing fourth-generation database querylanguages.
The following case study illustrates their capabilities: with 8 person weeks, one of these systems wasported to a Navy relational database of 666 fields (from 75 relations) with a vocabulary of over 6,000 (root) words.482Queries from a new user of one of these systems are estimated to succeed 60 to 80% of the time; with use of thesystem users naturally and automatically adjust o the data that is in the database and to the limits of the languageunderstood by the system, giving a success rate of 80 to 95%, depending on the individual.The success of these systems has depended on the fact that sufficient coverage of the language is possiblewith relatively simple semantic and discourse models.
The semantics are bounded by the semantics of the relationsused in databases and the fact that words have a restricted number of meanings in one domain.
The discourse modelfor a query is usually limited to the table output of the previous answer and the noun phrases mentioned in the lastfew queries.The limitations of today's practical language processing technology are summarized as follows:?
Domains must be narrow enough that the constraints on the relevant semantic oncepts and relationscan be expressed using current knowledge representation techniques, primarily in terms of types andsorts.
Processing may be viewed abstractly as the application of recursive tree rewriting rules, includingfiltering out trees not matching a certain pattern.?
Handcrafting is necessary, even in the grammatical components of systems, the component technologythat exhibits least dependence on the application domain.
Lexicons and axiomatizations of critical factsmust be developed for each domain, and these remain time-consuming tasks.?
The user must still adapt o the machine, but, as the products testify, can do so effectively.?
Current systems have limited discourse capabilities which are almost exclusively handcrafted.
Thuscurrent systems are limited to viewing interaction, translation, and writing and reading text asprocessing a sequence of rather isolated sentences.
Consequently, the user must adapt o such limiteddiscourse.1.2.2.
Status of Evaluation in NLPNatural anguage processing combines basic scientific hallenges with diverse technological needs.Evaluating progress in scientific hallenges for NLP is a multifaceted issue, perhaps akin to the problem ofevaluating progress in the field of programming languages.
While certain aspects of progress in that field can bequantified, this is generally not the case; it is hard to quantify how much better one programming language is thananother, for example.
Nevertheless, there is still reason to believe that scientific issues are becoming better definedand that progress is being made.On the other hand, evaluation metrics for technological dvances based on the science are being developedand applied.
In machine translation, measurements have evolved further than in other areas, and they encompassboth range of application (what kind of texts in what domain can be translated) and accuracy of the translation(percentage of sentences that remain semantically invariant, and of those, the percentage that are stylisticallyacceptable).
Natural anguage interfaces can be evaluated in terms of their habitability; that is, how well and howfast can a user get the task accomplished?
How often do first phrasings work?
Do subsequent human-machineclarification, or focused rephrasing, yield success?
These criteria, however, evaluate performance of the technologyin a task domain, rather than the underlying science, independent of task.It behooves the field to continue refining and applying qualitative as well as quantitative measures ofprogress in the NLP task domains, and to consider the issue of how to measure and evaluate research in the scientificcore, if that is to be done any differently from the standard measures of publication and scholarship of mostestablished scientific fields.4831.2.3.
Further Scientific WorkGiven the limitations of the current echnology discussed in Section 1.2.1, fundamental scientific problemsin the following three broad areas hould be addressed:Adequate theories of semantics and discourse.
These theories hould apply to both generation andinterpretation f interactive dialogue and text and must support communication across a range of domains ofdiscourse.
I.n semantics, this means at a minimum that we must have a semantics of words (a lexical semantics) thatis independent of the domain and of the application, and that the meaning of a word is easily (semi-automatically)related to the concepts of particular domains and applications.
Accounts of the combined use of linguistic andnon-linguistic (e.g., pointing) intbrmation i  interactive dialogues hould also be developed.
The particular styles ofcertain sublanguages, e.g., Army Operations Orders, should also be accommodated.Acquisition of information ecessary tounderstanding and creating communication.
This includesboth linguistic (e.g., words and grammatical forms) and non-linguistic nformation (e.g., the semantics of icons)used by real users performing real tasks in a given domain of discourse.A calculus of partial information.
In both single- and multiple-sentence texts and dialogues, generationand interpretation requires combining information from a number of sources, such as morphological, syntactic,semantic, pragmatic, and prosodic information.
This is particularly true with novel, errorful, and incompleteexpressions.
Current systems are limited in the kind of information-they bring to hear on interpretation, and theprocesses by which they do so.
Both logical and statistical methods may be further investigated.1.2.4.
Non-technical BarriersLack of Leverage.
Building an NL system requires an extensive ffort over several years.
Mostresearchers lack the resources to produce acomplete system and lack access to state-of-the-art software for somecomponents (e.g., parsers, large grammars, task-specific lexicons, knowledge representation systems, semanticinterpreters).
Having such components would let them concentrate heir efforts on novel work, demonstrate acomplete system, and test individual component theones.
Maximal sharing of components requires that a fewcommon tasks be selected by the community and that appropriate backend systems (databases, simulators, expertsystems, etc.)
be made widely available.
Leverage can he further increased by development and support of key NLcomponents.
Collection and dissemination of large linguistic data sets will support development of broad-coveragegrammars, better lexicons, systematic evaluation procedures, and statistical measures.Funding.
Overall funding for NLP has been strong from 1984 through 1988.
However, DARPA fundingin the last several years has increasingly emphasized technology transfer and near-term results.
Although thisemphasis has had some positive as well as negative results, the overall trend is cause for concern.
On the positiveside, the focus on shorter term performance has forced the community to focus on the development ofprototypesaddressing specific tasks in specific domains and to think about evaluation methods and resource sharing.
On thenegative side, it has left little room for developing the theoretical basis of the next generation of systems.
Some ofthis responsibility has been taken on by other sources (notably the Systems Development Foundation and Japaneseindustry), but support from the former is coming to an end, and there are obvious reasons for not wanting to dependtoo heavily on the latter.
Given these factors, we have serious concern for future levels of basic research funding.Training of Researchers.
Researchers in NLP need a broad exposure to AI, computer science, linguistics,logic, and increasingly to probability and statistics.
It is important that the funding of research projects, in and outof universities, allow for student participation.4841.3.
Ant ic ipated DevelopmentsDuring the next decade, we anticipate several scientific breakthroughs which shouM bring about impactnoticable to the user community.1.3.1.
Scientific BreakthroughsWithin the next 3 to 10 years we foresee the following scientific breakthroughs:?
Architectures that support coordinating syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic onstraints, that deal withpartial information, and that understand novel, errofful, and vague forms.?
A robust, task-independent, compositional semantics, including more thorough treatment of problemsrelevant to major application areas, such as time and tense, adverbs and adjectives, conjunctions andellipsis.?
Automatic acquisition of substantial glammars and lexicons.?
Parallel algorithms for key processes.?
Computational models of discourse structure and speaker intention adequate to support dialogueparticipation and text generation.1.3.2.
Technology TransferExisting laboratory prototypes coupled with the scientific breakthroughs projected above suggest that inthe next decade anew generation of systems, having the properties below, will be available:?
Text analysis ystems for automatic database update, m restricted omain areas.?
Interactive problem-solving systems combining NL, pointing, and graphical access to several targetsystems (e.g., databases, imulators, expert systems); exhibiting extended conversations includingclarifications, uggestions, and confirmations; and allowing rapid, low-cost portability from one(constrained) application domain to another.?
Language generation systems producing extended texts in limited applications (e.g., summarization fdatabases or output and explanations ofexpert systems' decisions).2.
Background2.1.
Cur rent  AssessmentProducts.
In the decade since 1978, at least eight commercial products for natural language access todatabases have been released.
Two message processing systems are m daily use, one for the U.S. Coast Guard.
Inthe U.S. alone, four companies offer machine translation systems.Limitations of current systems.
The limitations of the current echnology, described in Section 1.2.1. ofthis paper, can be illustrated by considering NL access to databases, the application that has probably received moresupport han any other in the U.S. in the last ten years.
The nature of the task limits the range of inputs the systemcan expect o see and the semantic distinctions that need to be reflected m the MRL.
Reasoning m relationaldatabases i  limited to the operations of relational algebra on purely extensional information, so certain concepts,such as tense and modality, need not be reflected in the MRL either.
Limitations on the content of a database can485guarantee that certain interpretation ambiguities will not arise, or that they can often be resolved by simple means.In a geographical database, occurrences of the noun "bank" as a financial institution probably never need beconsidered at all in interpreting "What are the cities on the left bank of the Rhone?".
If countries but not mountainshave populations, then in "What is the population of Kenya?
", Kenya means the country, not the mountain.
Byassuming the user will adapt o the system and that NL can substitute for an artificial anguage, the NL interfacetreats each question in isolation with only a very general, weak notion of tim goal in an utterance.The availability of these kinds of restrictions has aUowed NL database query systems to be successfulusing relatively simple frameworks in which to encode the necessary knowledge sources {grammars, type and sortalinformation, lists of mentioned entities) applied in relatively simple ways (parsing, recursive tree transformations).This is not to minimize the effort required to build the grammar, semantic model, etc.
for a particular application.The size of the vocabulary per se is not a limiting factor, though it does impact he initial cost of bringingup the NLP.
Rather what is limiting is the number of word senses per word in the vocabulary, whether the languageinvolves ubstantial intersentential effects (discourse structure), and whether the underlying semantics i richer thanthat of relational databases.Scientific progress.
The scientific progress of the last 10 years can be described in terms of traditionallinguistic areas and in terms of task areas.The main development in syntax has been the shift from grammars including procedural constructs to onesexpressed purely declaratively.
In contrast to context-free grammars, which use atomic symbols only, these so calledunification grammars use complex terms instead, with term unification instead of equality checking as the mainoperation.
"nais has allowed for the use of the same grammars with a range of algorithms, both sequential ndparallel, for analysis and generation.
Grammar development tools have been written in a variety of unification-based frameworks, and widely distributed.
Unification grammars are currently being used to apply syntactic (andsome semantic) constraints in speech recognition.
Within the family of unification grammars lie the "mildlycontext-sensitive grammars" -- a class that properly contains the context-free grammars, and allows the expressionof observed syntactic onstraints not expressible in CFGs, but whose recognition problem is polynomial-timecomputable.In semantics, the major aspects of the contribution of sentence structure to meaning are understood andimplemented.
First steps toward automatically extracting aspects of lexical meaning from machine-readabledictionaries have been taken.Understanding and generating connected sentences introduces questions such as how texts and dialoguesare structured; how this structure affects interpretation, particularly of referential expressions; how the beliefs,intentions, and plans of a speaker are conveyed by what is said and how they constrain what is meant, as well aswhat appropriate r sponses are.
All these questions have been and continue to be investigated.
Underlying logicsand algorithms for reasoning about knowledge, belief, intention, and action have been proposed, as have initialcomputational models for discourse structure and methods for planning and plan recognition for discourse.Although progress continues to be made on query systems, substantial systems have been developed forother applications, all of which were unexplored 10 years ago.
These include several text processing systemssupported by DARPA's Strategic Computing Imtiative (SCI), ranging from systems with very detailed models ofone domain, to more general ones adapted to several domains (e.g., Naval Casualty Reports, RAINFORMS, terroristreports).
Multi-media interactive problem solving systems have been developed for the environment ofNavy FleetCommand Center decision making and for factory control.
Language generation systems have been implemented to486generate multi-sentence explanations ofexpert system decisions, object or situation descriptions, and instructionsfrom an expert.2.2.
Relationships To Other AreasHistorically, NLP's strongest interaction has been with other areas of artificial intelligence, .g., with workin knowledge representation a d planning.
During the 1980s, collaboration with theoretical linguistics and cognitivescience has been growing.
Lack of widespread availability of high-performance, parallel computers thus far haslimited the algorithms considered; however, efforts in parallelism, including work in connectionist neural networkmodeling, may grow in the next decade.Until two years ago, interaction with speech scientists had been minimal since the end of the DARPASpeech Understanding Program in 1976.
Progress ha natural language processing should contribute directly tospoken language systems.
This is true not only where understanding seems to be necessary, e.g., voice commandsand requests, translation of speech, etc., but also in speech transcription.
The error rate of speech recognitionsystems i directly correlated with the perplexity of the language to be recognized.
Statistical language models inspeech transcription have given the lowest perplexity thus far, and therefore, the best performance.
Languageprocessing techniques, whether supplemental orin place of current statistical models, offer the potential of providingeven lower perplexity due to modeling both local and global constraints, as well as supporting speech applicationsother than transcription.3.
Research  Oppor tun i t iesTo Complement our discussion of ultimate goals and the scientific work needed to achieve them, we hereoutline some nearer term research objectives and address evaluation issues.3.1.
Scientific ObjectivesAcquisition of corpora, grammars, and lexicons.
The development ofuseful systems requires observationof the behavior of potential users of interactive systems under ealistic ircumstances, and the collection of corporaof typical data for text analysis and machine translation systems.
Although we believe it is unlikely that fullgrammars and lexicons can be induced completely automatically in the near future, useful results may be obtainedsoon from induction and acquisition techniques based on annotated corpora nd machine-readable dictionaries.
It isalso \[ikely that statistical measures useful for biasing algorithms can be extracted from a handcrafted grammar and acorpus.
Approaches that appear promising axe 1) the learning of grammatical structures where the input has alreadybeen annotated by part of speech and/or phrase structure, and 2) the learning of lexical syntaMsemantics fromexamples and/or queries to the user given some pre-coded omain knowledge.Increasing expressive power ~ Meaning Representation Languages.
Moving beyond atabase querysystems will require increasing the expressive power of the MRL to include at least modal and higher orderconstructs.
Reasoning tools for modal ogics and for second-order logics already exist, but they appear intractablefor language processing tasks.
Approaches that seem promising include encoding modal constructs in first-orderlogic, hybrid approaches torepresentation a d reasoning, and approaches toresource-limited or shallow reasoning,such as adding weights to formulae and subformulae.Reasoning about plans.
Recent work on plan recognition (the inference of the beliefs and intentions ofagents in context) has provided formal definitions of the problem and some new algorithms.
These have not yet487been used as part of a discourse component tohelp resolve reference, quantification, and modification ambiguiuesor to formulate an appropriate r sponse.
The interaction between plans, discourse structure, and focus of attentionalso needs to be investigated.
Promising approaches include incorporation ofbeliefs of the discourse participants,integrating existing models into discourse processing under simplifying conditions, and exploring prosodic andlinguistic ues to dialogue.Combination of partial information.
The standard control structure by which various ources ofinformation are combined in language interpretanon seems to limit what NL systems can do.
Several proposals formore flexible control structures have been made recendy, each covering asubset of the knowledge sourcesavailable.
More comprehensive schemes need to be developed.
Two promising approaches are generalization funification to NL architectures and use of global, weighted control strategies, as in evidential reasoning.Improving robustness.
Published studies uggest that as much as 25 to 30% of typed input contains errors,is incomplete, uses novel anguage, or otherwise involves challenging phenomena that are not well handledtheoretically.
Some experts believe the frequency of occurrence for these classes is even higher in spoken languagethan in wntten language.
The text of some messages, uch as Navy RAINFORM and CASREP messages and banktelexes, is highly telegraphic.
It should be possible to develop adomain-independent theory that allows at leastpartial understanding of some of these novel and errorful uses, and to test it in narrowly defined omains.
Promisingapproaches are to employ unification strategies, plan recognition, and weighted control strategies todetermine themost likely interpretation a d the most appropriate r sponse/action.Explonng ~ relationship between linguistic and conceptual knowledge.
Use and interpretation fmetaphor illustrates a prevalent relationship between linguistic and conceptual knowledge.
For example, there isobvious ystematicity in the use of expressions like "kill the engine" and "my engine died" which extends to otherdomains ("kill that process" and "my process died").
An understanding of such issues has been shown in the labto be effective for language l arning, where such regularities have been effectively exploited to learn extended wordmeanings.
A domain-independent theory of the relationship could he developed and tested.Relating interpretation a d action.
The problem of how to relate interpretations expressed in an MRL andcalls to application systems (databases, summarizing algorithms, etc.)
has not been fully resolved, or in factprecisely stated.
Resolving this relationship s crucial to the systematic separation of the natural language part of thesystem from the application part.
Any approach should deal with applications beyond atabases (beyond thesemantics of tables) and should avoid the challenges of automatic programming.Finding the relationship between prosody, syntactic ambiguity, and discourse structure.
Syntactic anddiscourse boundaries are one of the main sources of interpretation ambiguity.
Recently discovered evidence showsthat prosodic information isa good indicator of these boundaries.
Automatic extraction of prosodic informationwould revolutionize the interpretation f spoken language.
Further, generation systems could add prosodicinformation to signal syntactic structure and discourse structure,Facilitating leverage tltrough shared resources.
To address the problem of lack of leverage, severalprojects could be funded to support efforts throughout a significant portion of the community.
We believe that suchprojects will make both the conduct and the evaluation of natural language work substantially faster and easier; thatthey can significantly reduce duplication of effort; that they can help to facilitate the individual researcher's effortson new work rather than on infrastructure: and that they can materially increase the compatibility of research anddevelopment activities at different sites.
Examples of infrastructure include:1.
Collection and labeling of several corpora of various genres (dialogues, essays, narratives, etc.).
Someexperts believe a corpus of 100,000,000 words is required.
The labeling should include part of speech,488syntactic structure reformation, co-reference, and any semantic/pragmatic information that can bereliably added.2.
Distribution and maintenance of two or more of the most extensive grammars and parsers of English.3.
Collection of  a substantial lexicon with feature information that is uncontroversial.
(Since the largestlexicons thus far have been about 10,000 words, the size should be at least 20,000.)4.
Maintenance of two or more knowledge representation a d reasoning systems.5.
Distribution and maintenance of two or three natural anguage interfaces.6.
Distribution of one or more "backend" systems to serve as the target of  an interface.3.2.
Measures of ProgressThe means of  measunng progress is still an active area of discussion among NL scientists, as evidenced bythe Workshop on Natural Language Evaluation held outside Philadelphia in December 1988.
Measures ofcorrectness can be relatively simply stated for database query systems without dialogue capabilities (e.g., withoutsequence-related queries or clarifications), or for text analysis ystems for database ntry.
They are much moredifficult to state when stylistic matters need to be considered (as in MT systems) or when system responses affectsubsequent user utterances.
They probably can't be usefully stated in a domain- or task-independent way.
Measuresof task difficulty, or of  ambiguity of  the language model, analogous to speech recogmtion's perplexity, are muchmore difficult to state.Measurement of NL systems requires three distinct ypes of comparisons:1.
Longitudinal: It is critical to be able to measure the performance of a system over time, so thatprogress can be tracked.2.
Cross-System: It should be possible to compare the overall performance of two systems in explicitterms.
This focus on whole-system performance will help localize the strengths and weaknesses ofcomplete systems and will identify topics for research and development efforts.3.
Component: It should be possible to evaluate and compare parts of  systems and evaluate coverage ofunknown phenomena.
This focus on components will help point out areas of relative strength indifferent systems and will provide priorities and goals for specific research.4.
Impact4.1.
Potent ia l  ImpactOne way to assess potential impact is via a holistic, subjective view.
The following is a summary of amarket survey that uses this approach: 1Considering the question of feasibility (on NLP systems) first, the answer must be "yes" ...The second - easier - issue, is whether people will really want computer NLP.
In the style of some systems of logic, itcan be resolved by testing for the negative: under what circumstances would people not want computers to handlenatural language, given that they can satisfy price and performance r quirements?
The only obvious answers are:where a routine action (such as pressing abutton or keying in a standard command) is quicker or more convenient:where communication in a strictly formalized language ismore reliable, precise, or subtle: and where there areovemding requirements for human involvement, ranging from legal obligations to job preservation.
ThesetTim Johnson, Natural language computing: the commercial pplications, Ovum LTD, London, 1985, pp.
45-46489considerations will rule out quite a number of possible applications, but the broad conclusion must be that ff thetechnology is available, then it will be widely used.We illustrate the conclusion above in the following three subsections.
A second way to view impact is toquantify the potential marketplace.
We report on this approach in Section 4.1.6.4.1.1.
Human.machine Interaction SystemsIt is difficult to overestimate oroverstate the technical, scientific, and socio-economic value of an effectiveand efficient means of human-machine interaction.
Even so, it is easy to lose sight of the importance of the interfacein the effort to develop some underlying functionality.
Indeed, it is worth pointing out that the ideal interface is"invisible," in the sense that users find it so natural and easy to use that they are never aware of the interface itself.Such interfaces will make computers usable by everyone, without special training.
Components of this work couldbe incorporated into virtually every human-machine system developed or supported by the government.
Just asindependent menu, graphic, text, and speech I/0 capabilities have evolved from DARPA-supported work, so wLll theintegrated, multimodal problem-solving environments made possible by work on interfaces become commonplace.4.1.2.
Reading And Writing TextVirtually all workplaces are inundated by documents, forms, messages, memos, and reference archives.With far more computing power and memory at the fingertips of office staff, with the rapid growth in networks, andwith the demand for timely information, it is not wild speculation to foresee acrisis of information gridlock in wholeorganizations.
Those who can digest he necessary information first will have the advantage in the economic,political, and military battles of the future.
The problem is not merely one of ingesting new information, though;productivity in retrieving, editing, maintaining, and mating information is also critical.Consider the potential in the area of intelligence analysis.
Impressive improvements in the means ofcollecting data for intelligence analysis have far outstripped advances in technology to help the intelligence analystuse the data collected.
It is now possible to collect more free text reports than can possibly be digested.
The reportscome in many languages, not just English.
The availability of reports is going to grow further in the 1990s, but thereis no hope for commensurate p rsonnel increases to deal with the availability of data.
Natural anguage processingseems the only hope for aiding in the selection, prioritization, filtering, and analysis of data.The kinds of aids or utilities that would provide help are broad in scope:?
Language identif ication.
Given a segment of free text, identifying the languages it is written in.?
Pr ior i t izat ion.
Given a message (in free text), assigning apriority to it, based on message content.?
Rout ing.
Determining which offices should receive acopy of the text based on its content.?
Gist ing.
Automatically adding records to a database, given the content of free text.?
Fus ion.
Recognizing that a new piece of text correlates with previously known information.Identification of what is new in the message, what corroborates known data, and what conflicts withknown data.?
Report  generat ion.
Automatic preparation of text and tables describing amessage, set of messages, orsituation.?
Alerts.
Given some pre-defined criteria bout he content of a knowledge base/database, nding amessage notifying that the criteria have now been met4904.1.3.
Machine Translation (MT)The need for extensive translation capabilities, whether human or machine, is becoming increasinglyimportant to the U.S., because of both the increasing importance of world markets to U.S. business and theincreasing role of joint military operations.
Aids to translation therefore can help the U.S. achieve success in anevolving world.
The potential impact of MT is indicated below by a quote: 2Today, more than 20 years after computerized language translation was laughed out of the funding process in theUnited States.
several Japanese companies and industry/government collaborations are beginning to turn the once-derided technology into a gold mine of new applications and opportunities.
The top U.S. company estimates that theannual market for international translation isat least $10 billion, and as machine translation systems improve they willcommand an increasing share of a market growing at a rate of I0 to 15 percent ayear.The key to why there is a market for MT today is the fact that one need not have fully automatichigh-quality translation to have a valuable product; tools that increase productivity are sufficient.
If economies aregained by editing a translation drafted using MT, that is sufficient to warrant use of MT systems.In terms of R&D funding, MT is the application of NLP that is attracting the most funding fromgovernment and industry in Japan and Europe.
In Europe, Eurotra alone is spending $20 million in MT, withanother expected $20 million in matching funds.
The total Japanese investment is even larger (most of it industrial).ATR (in Osaka, funded by the ministry of postal and telecommunication) is doing a 15-year project on simultaneous"interpreting telephony" combining MT, dialog analysis, and speech.4.1.4.
Forecasting the MarketThough forecasting the market for a technology that is emerging from the laboratory is not a reliableprocess, we cite what we feel is the most useful market survey.
Figure 4..1 shows estimated sales in 1987 of NLPsystems in the U.S.; Figure 4-2 shows estimated sales of NLP products in 1985 and 1987 and forecasted sales for1989, 1991, 1993, and 1995.
In the diagrams, "content scanning" corresponds tothe ultimate goal of text reading,and "talkwriter" corresponds tothe goal of automatic speech transcription.4.2.
Transfer to the Real WorldTransfer to the real world is already occurring in three appfication areas: database retrieval, messageprocessing in highly constrained domains, and aids to document translation.
As can be seen from the forecasts in theprevious ection, prospects for continued transfer of technology seem bright.
Nevertheless, government support forparticular aspects will be necessary to develop the technology and its commercialization in ways that mightotherwise be long delayed.
For instance, multi-modal interfaces that include both text and speech processing areclearly mandated in military apphcations, where high-quality audio-visual hardware is expected; on the other hand,market forces can argue for supporting the lowest common denominator in hardware, such as, a terminal, because itis the most dominant screen technology currently commonplace.
Similarly, commercial sources can be expected tofund evolutionary improvements in current echnology and short-term risks likely to have high payoff.
However,the next one or two generations of science and technology cannot be expected to emerge without substantialgovernment funding.2R.
C. Wood, "The Language Advantage: Japan's Machine Translators Rule he Market", High Technology Business, November 1987, p.17.491SCANNING (S.H%)MACHINE 'TRANSLATIC6 .
.
.
.
.
.OTHER (8.1'TALKWRITER8 (17.4%)INTERFACES (el.4%)Figure 4-1: NLP Applicmtlona-Market Share, USA, 1987Area 1985 \[ 987 1989 1991 !
993 1995Interfaces 12. t 2\[.7 36.3 64.4 137.4 254.4Machine Translation 2.3 1.7 2.9 8.2 9.6 t4.4Content Scanning 0.7 1.7 5. l I 1.0 20.4 39.
ITalkwriter 0.0 5.7 22.0 68.8 177 306Other 0.5 2.0 2.0 9.4 25.4 90.0Figure 4-2: Forecasts for Natural Language Products by Application in Millions of Dollars 3We believe a secondary effect of the Strategic Computing Program has been greater industrial R&D effortin natural language technology.
Government investment in technology transfer can further prime the pump ofindustrial investment.Judging when a laboratory system is ready for transfer to the real world is difficult.
One approach toe~/aluating whether asystem is ready is to measure the effort requited to achieve some specified level ofperformance m a new application domain.
Such a measure indicates not only the cost of applying the system butalso its degree of maturity.
The reason such measures are critical is that a domain-independent l xical semantics anddomain-independent discourse processing are areas in which further scientific research isneeded.3T~,m Johnsoe~ "Commercial markets for natural language proce~mg", talk presented at the Second Conference on Applied Natural LanguageProc?~mg, Association for Computational Lmguiszics, Fet:~r~a,ry, |988.4925.
Conc lus ions  and  Recommendat ionsThe impact of a breakthrough in computer use of natural languages will have as profound an effect onsociety as would breakthroughs in superconductors, inexpensive fusion, or genetic engineering.
The impact of NLPby machine will be even greater than the impact of microprocessor technology in the last 20 years.
The rationale issimple: natural language is fundamental toalmost all business, military, and social activities; therefore, theapplicability of NLP is almost limitless.NL analysis and generation could revolutionize our individual, institutional, and national ability to enter,access, summarize, and translate textual reformation.
It can make interaction with machines as easy as interactionbetween individuals.The computer's linguistic proficiency may never be as great as a human's.
However, the existence anduse of current NL products and the market projections cited suggest that invesunent in this technology should lead touseful spinoffs m the near term and mid-term.The technology stands at a turning point.
New approaches ( ee Section 3,1) offer opportunities forsubstantial progress in the next five years, and breakthroughs within 3 to 10 years.Given these conclusions, we have three recommendations:I.
Support both component research and system integration designed to achieve successes in the nearterm, i.e., the scientific breakthroughs and technology transfer projections made in Sections 1.3.1 and1.3.2.
Some of these projects hould produce demonstrable r sults m applications including (but notresmcted to) machine lranslation, interactive dialogue systems for problem solving and consulting, andtext input/output.2.
Invest in approaches tothe azeas labeled further scientific work in Section 1.2.3, particularly inhigh-payoff approaches.
The goal is the creation and fostering of seminal ideas that could lead tolong-term breakthroughs.3.
Support infrastructure toleverage research, such as large annotated corpora, very large grammars,theory-neutral lexicons containing tens of thousands of words, common-sense knowledge bases,modular NLP systems, and application backends.4.
Increase overall funding for NL research, since two new challenges face the U.S. First, the need forNL processing to support intelligence analysis is alreadl?
clear, will only grow in the next decade, andhas not been addressed by previous DARPA programs.
'~Second, Japanese successes in machinetramlation of text and the Japanese mphasis on simultaneous translation (of speech) suggest thedesirability of a program that supports approaches tomachine translation that offer promise ofscientific breakthroughs and progress on the long-term objectives identified in Section 1: reading andwriting text, translation, and interactive dialogue.4Previous DARPA programs have focused on English, whereas tl'~ needs m the in~lligcnc~ ommunity embrace s veral critical languages.493
