Robust Speech RecognitionProgram SummaryClifford J. WeinsteinMIT Lincoln LaboratoryThe Lincoln Laboratory Program in Robust Speech Recognition Technology was initiated in FY85with the major goal of developing techniques for high-performance speech recognition under the stress andnoise conditions typical of the fighter cockpit.
After achieving significant advances in robust isolated-wordrecognition (IWR) during FY85 and FY86, the program evolved in FY87 to the development of robustcontinuous speech recognition (CSR) techniques for the stressful, imited-task-domain environment typicalof the Pilot's Associate.
In FY88, the Lincoln CSR work was extended successfully to the large-vocabularytask typical of the Battle Management environment.
A major goal of the current program, starting inFY89, is to extend and apply these robust CSR techniques to talker-independent, noisy and distorted speechconditions.The work in recognition i stress and noise produced a robust Hidden Markov Model (HMM) IWR systemwith 99% speaker-dependent (SD) accuracy for several difficult stress/noise databases, and very high perfor-mance for normal speech.
Robustness techniques which were developed included multi-style training, robustestimation of parameter variances, use of time-differential speech parameters, and discriminant analysis.More recently, the robust HMM system has been extended to large-vocabulary CSR for both speaker-dependent (SD) and speaker-independent (SI) tasks.
Performance on the DARPA Resource Managementtask (991-word vocabulary, perple.xity-60) is 96.5% word accuracy (SD) and 87.5% word accuracy (SI).
Therobust HMM CSR has Mso been integrated in real-time with a simulated flight task, judged to be veryrealistic by a number of military pilots.
Phrase recognition accuracy on the limited-vocabulary flight task isbetter than 99.5%.Goals for the current program include: (1) development of robust techniques for talker-independentrecognition of noisy and distorted continuous speech; (2) research into the application of speaker recognitionstrategies to improve speech recognition performance; and (3) continued evelopment and evaluation of CSRtechniques on the DARPA Resource Management continuous-speech database.Re ferences\[1\] D.B.
Paul, R.P.
Lippmann, Y. Chen, C.J.
Weinstein, "Robust HMM-Based Techniques for Recognitionof Speech Produced Under Stress and in Noise," Proc.
DARPA 1986 Speech Recognition Workshop.\[2\] Lincoln Laboratory papers in Proc.
DARPA 1987 Speech Recognition Workshop, pp.
82-104.\[3\] D.B.
Paul and E.A.
Martin, "Speaker Stress-Resistant Continuous Speech Recognition," ICASSP'88.\[4\] D.B.
Paul, "The Lincoln Robust Continuous Speech Recognizer," ICASSP'89.i159
