Natural Language, Knowledge Representation and DiscourseJames F Allen and Lenhart K SchubertDepartment ofComputer Science, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627GoalsNatural anguage understanding is an area of research that holds great promise for use in intelligent man-machine interfaces and in text analysis and information reU'ieval.
Unfortunately, in most approaches the naturallanguage processing itself is completely separated from the system's general reasoning abilities.
This project isinvestigating several key issues relating to how natural anguage processing can explok the system's knowledgerepresentation a d reasoning abilities.
In particular, we are investigating system architectures specifically aimed atintegrating the wide range of language processing and general reasoning modules that are needed to process multi-sentence language.
We are also developing an error-tolerant parser for English that is closely integrated with thesystem's general reasoning processes.
This work is being tested both in the context of narrative understanding, and inthe context of man-machine dialog.More specifically, the principal objectives are (1) to develop aknowledge representation for representing andreasoning about he content of arbitrary English sentences, in the context of a large base of commonsenseknowledge; (2) to develop ageneral, error-tolerant parser for English; (3) to develop ageneral theory of planningwhich is suitable for both natural-language systems and robotic systems; and (4) to use this theory of planning tomodel the content and structure of narratives and dialogs.Recent ResultsWe have developed a new logic of"episodes" that generalizes the notion of events found in manyrepresentations based on frames or semantic networks.
Within this logic, we are exploring eneral strategies ofinput-driven and goal-driven probabilistic nferencing, with the ability to infer explanations and predictions forevents and actions (episodes).
This work is reported in a paper by Schubert and Hwang, which won an outstandingcontribution award at the First International Conference on Knowledge Representation in March 1989.The parser is based on a variant of GPSG, and uses "preferences" to arrive at preferred interpretations inhuman-like fashion.
Error-tolerance is achieved in part by use of error-tolerant feature unification and by errorpostulation by the lexical analyzer.
A direct, compositional mapping from phrase structure rules to the episodic logicrepresentation is being developed.We have also developed a new method of identifying the intended speech act in dialog that is significantlymore efficient and accurate than previous approaches.
This work is reported in the paper in these proceedings.Plans for the coming yearWe plan to further develop the episodic logic, and use it to represent complex situations described in languageby tense, aspect and adverbials.
A prototype version of the parser will be completed, and the work on speech actmodelling will be extended to incorporate more general actions relating to the discourse structure signals inlanguage.455
