New York UniversityPrincipal investigator: Ralph GfishmanNatural Language UnderstandingOur task, broadly stated, is the development of systems for the understanding of narrativemessages in limited domains.
Improving the current state-of-the-art forsuch systems will requirea better understanding of how to capture and utilize domain information, and how to effectivelycombine the various ources of information (syntactic, semantic, and discourse) to create arobustlanguage analyzer.For our study of the structure and use of domain information, we have focussed onCASREP messages describing the failure, diagnosis, and attempted repair of shipboard equip-ment.
Because much of the information -- particularly the relation between the individual eventsin the narrative -- is implicit, a thorough understanding of these messages requires ubstantialknowledge of the equipment involved.
We have captured this knowledge for one piece of equip-ment -- the starting air system for gas turbine propulsion systems -- through amodel which incor-porates tructural and functional information about he equipment.
We have then developed anatural language analyzer which uses the simulation capabilities of this model to determine theimplicit causal relations between the events in a message.
For example, if a message states"Compressor won't start.
Shaft was sheared."
the language analyzer could use the model to ver-ify that the shearing was a plausible cause of the failure of the compressor.For our study of the effective integration of syntactic, semantic, and discourse information,we are developing an analyzer for ship sighting messages (RAINFORMs).
These messages usevery compressed natural language, where many of the participants in an event are implicit; thechallange for the analyzer is to recover this information.
To parse these messages, we haveextended a general English grammar to allow the omission of case and complement markers("of", "at", "to", "as"), copulas ("be"), and a few other constituents.
Our parser does a best-firstsearch to obtain the analysis which is consistent with the semantic constraints of the domain andhas the fewest omissions.
To recover missing operands, we are experimenting with a measure ofmessage coherence based on cause/effect and enabling condition/action relations between eventsin the message.
When semantic case frame constraints alone would allow several possible fillersfor a missing operand, our system prefers the analysis yielding the highest message coherence.Considerable additional experimentation s required to evaluate the role of this coherencemeasure, and to balance the syntactic, semantic, and discourse coherence constraints.
We expectthat the data for MUCK-II will provide some initial evaluation of these techniques.203
