Session 8: Spoken Language Systems IICharles T. Hemphill, ChairTexas InstrumentsP.
O.
Box 655474, MS 238Dallas, TX 75265This session consisted of four talks from six papersrepresenting the gamut of technology in spoken languagesystems.
Perhaps urprisingly, each of the papers presenttechniques that are compatible with one another and SLSsystem builders can benefit from all of these.Mike Philips of MIT presented recent progress on theVOYAGER system.
In particular, MIT has incorporated a"top-N" approach to increase the level of integration be-tween speech and natural language.
They use Viterbisearch to compute the upper bound estimate for an A*search.
Readers should contrast his with papers fromBBN and AT&T in the first SLS session.
MIT has alsodeveloped an interesting way of creating a high-coverage/low-perplexity word-pair grammar based on sen-tences generated from their natural anguage grammar.Debbie Dahl of Unisys presented some observations ontraining and evaluation of a spoken language system.Using "top-N" Voyager data from MIT, they explored therelationship between training and coverage.
They con-verged on 70% coverage after approximately 1000 sen-tences.
This convergence d pends on the domain and per-haps the data collection paradigm, as discussed in Unisys'paper in session five.
Unisys has also tabulated empiricaldata for correct responses versus false alarms to help deter-mine a beneficial value of N for the "top-N" algorithm.Alex Rudnicky of CMU presented evelopments inspoken language interaction.
While the work discussedabove primarily addressed spoken language speed and ac-curacy, CMU has concentrated on the user interface andsystem integration issues.
They have designed a spokenlanguage system architecture that permits the rapid designof spoken language applications.
With this architecture,they have studied computer-human interface design for fivedifferent applications.
The modularity of the architecturefacilitates research and development for each of the in-dividual components.Finally, Dave Stallard from BBN presented their recentdevelopments in applying unification grammars to spokenlanguage systems.
It should be noted that most of theconcepts presented can be found in the unification grammarliterature, and BBN indicated this by saying that the workcontains ideas "so old that they are new."
In the first paper,BBN presents various situations that illustrate the advan-tage of using e-productions in a unification grammar.
Inthe second paper, BBN presents various approaches forreducing the time and space requirements of a unificationgrammar system.
These include: the compilation of rulesinto rule-groups that share mutually subsumable con-sfituents, a limited form of feature disjunction in unifica-tion, and prediction constrained by features.205
