SPOKEN LANGUAGE SYSTEMSPI: John MakhoulBolt Beranek & Newman Inc., 10 Moulton St., Cambridge, MA 02138makhoul@hbn.comThe objective of this project is to develop a real-time spoken language system capable of understanding andresponding to spoken English commands and queries for interactive human-machine applications, such as battlemanagement, command and control, and training of personnel on complex tasks.
The system will also include acapability to adapt o new speakers and a capability to detect when a user says a new word, and to allow the userto add the word to the system.Work in this area requires the integration of three technologies: large-vocabulary continuous speech recogni-tion, natural language understanding, and system integration.
In our work at BBN, we have integrated our BYBLOScontinuous speech recognition technology with a new unification-based namrai language understanding component,resulting in an initial complete spoken language system, called HARC (Hear And Respond to Continuous speech).The natural language knowledge sources in HARC use a Unification formalism for describing the syntax andsemantics of English and a higher-order intensional logic for representing the meaning of an utterance.
The systemuses unification to enforce syntactic as well as semantic onstraints, and provides for the incremental pplicationof syntax and semantics.
Advantages of this approach are that unproductive search paths are cut off more quickly,and any improvements in unification parsing (through better algorithms, pecial hardware, etc.)
apply automaticallyto semantics as well as syntax.
We have implemented unification semantics for our grammar rules in three taskdomains: battle management, personnel information retrieval, and airline travel information retrieval.To help resolve ambiguities found in the semantics, we have interfaced the JANUS discourse module,developed under an earlier DARPA effort, to the HARC system.
We also developed a method for rapid porting ofthe nalmal anguage component tonew task domains using the Parlance Learner TM knowledge acquisition tool.One important contribution has been the development of the N-best search slrategy for integrating speechand natural anguage components.
This method takes a spoken utterance and produces the N highest scoringsentences that match the input utterance within some threshold, based on a statistical language model.
The naturallanguage component then searches these N sentences for the highest scoring sentence for which the system canproduce a semantic nterpretation.
One imlxmant feature of this N-best integration strategy is that it provides a veryclean interface between speech and natural language and, therefore, allows for greater sharing of resomr, es amongresearchers in spoken language systems.In this project, we have been instrumental in the design and collection of spoken language data for thepurpose of objective system evaluation.
We previously helped specify the DARPA Resource Management Corpusthat is now in common use for speech recognition evaluation, and we provided a Word-Pair Grammar to be usedwith the corpus.
More recently, we proposed a methodology for the collection and evaluation of spoken languagedata.
We also developed and made available to the DARPA community a personnel database for use in spokenlanguage valuations, and a relational database language (ERL) in Common LISP to interface to the database.
Wehave also provided software to aid in the collection of an appropriate corpus by "I~xas Inslrmnents.Recently, we developed what we believe to be the first successful method for the automatic detection ofout-of-vocabulary words.
This is an important problem for any realistic system with a large vocabulmy, since theuser is unlikely m be able to remember which words are in the vocabulary.
Initial results show a 70% detectionrate with only 1% false alarm.We have now started the development of a real-time spoken language system using commercially availablehardware.
The first part of the effort will demonsWate N-best recognition in real time.407
