Real-Time Speech Recognition SystemsHy Murveit and Mitch WeintraubSRI InternationalObjective:SRI and U.C.
Berkeley have begun a cooperative ffortto develop a new architecture for real-time implemen-tation of spoken language systems (SLS).
Our goal is todevelop fast speech recognition algorithms, and support-ing hardware capable of recognizing continuous peechfrom a bigram or trigram based 20,000 word vocabularyor a 1,000 to 5,000 word SLS systems.Recent Accompl ishments?
We have designed eight special purpose VLSI chipsfor the HMM board, six chips at U.C.
Berkeley forHMM beam search and viterbi processing, and twochips at SRI for interfacing to the grammar board.?
SRI and U.C.
Berkeley have completed simulationsof each of the special purpose VLSI chips.?
U.C.
Berkeley has completed the fabrication of oneprinted circuit board, for the HMM output proba-bility computation.?
By reimplementing SRI's Natural Language Parserfrom PROLOG to C, SRI was able to decrease theparse time by a factor of three.?
SRI modified SRI's language processing algorithmsto implement a continuum between SRI's DynamicGrammar Network (DGN) and BBN's N-best algo-rithm, to balance the computational load betweenthe HMM speech recognizer and the SLS parser.?
SRI completed the implementation of SRI'sstandard VQ front-end on the Berkeley dualTMS320C25 board, and in C.?
Implemented corrective training to improve recogni-tion performance; on the standard training set thisimproves peaker-independent perplexity 60 perfor-mance from 6.7% error to 5.1% error, and for alarger training set (about 11,000 sentences), im-proves speaker-independent recognition from 5.3%error to 4.1% error.Plans?
Complete the construction of the current hardwaredesign, and develop software tools to support, thisarchitecture.?
Develop a large vocabulary recognizer to fully usethe capabilities of this design.?
Design, implement, and evaluate algorithms forreal-time grammar processing computation.?
Evaluate the current architecture to determine thecomputational nd algorithmic bottlenecks.?
Replicate the system and port to a DARPA andNASA site.425
