Natural Language, Knowledge Representation,and DiscourseJames F. Allen and Lenhart K. SchubertDepartment ofComputer ScienceUniversity of RochesterRochester, NY 14627GoalsThe principal objective of this project is to develop a sys-tem for representing and reasoning about he discourse con-text in extended man-machine dialogs.
Current focus areasinclude the development of a general theory of multi- agentplanning to account for the structure of natural-langnagedialog, the development of a general knowledge represen-tation for capturing a wide range of natural languagesemantics, and the development of a general, error- tolerantparser and semantic interpreter for English that can beguided by discourse information.
Specifically, we aredeveloping a model of discourse plans that includes actionssuch as introducing a new topic, as well as the actions ofclarifying, correcting or acknowledging parts of the pre-vious dialog.
We are explonng how far the planning ap-proach can be extended, and how the "traditional" languagecomponents, i.e.
parsing, semantic interpretation and dis-course processing, relate to the planning component.Recent ResultsWe developed a model of indirect speech act interpretationthat has the generality plan-based approaches, but is sen-sitive to the syntactic form of the sentence (Hinkelman &Allen, 1989).
We also demonstrated an initial versionECOLOGIC, for representing and reasoning about nar-rative events, using commonsense uncertain knowledge.Most recently, we designed and implemented a detailedtheory of tense and aspect that addresses well-knownproblems in the systematic determination of "referencetimes" for tense-aspect constructs.
This is reported in theseproceedings.Plans for the coming yearThe major initiative this year is the construction of aprototype NL dialog system operating in a simple, butrealistic task domain requiring considerable man-machineinteraction.
This domain is one of scheduling transportationactions in a complex (simulated) world where only partialknowledge of the world state can ever be obtained.
Thesystem must maintain as accurate a representation f theworld as possible and keep the human informed, as well asassisting the human in constructing, monitoring and debug-ging the transportation plans.
Within the next year, weplan to have a dialog system that can understand and takepart in an extended ialog involving clarification, elabora-tion and confirmation before the final plan is agreed uponand executed.
Related to this project, we are starting aproject on the use of prosodic cues for signaling focus inspeech act interpretation.We also plan to extend ECOLOGIC to allow for "adjudica-tive inference" (arriving at an unambiguous interpretationusing multiple, possibly conflicting sources of knowledge),and "narrative inference" (the inference of identity betweendiscourse ntities, and of causal connections based on nar-rative order).
Finally, we plan to develop a better theoreti-cal foundation for wh-question answering, which will useall of the existing rules of interpretation (including syntac-tic parsing, logical form generation, and de-indexicalizationrules) "in reverse".429
