Very Large Annotated Database of Amer icanEnglishPI: Mitch MarcusDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104--6389email:mitch@cis.upenn.eduObjectiveTo construct a data base (the "Penn Treebank') of written and transcribed spoken American English annotatedwith detailed grammatical structure.
This data base will serve as a national resource, providing training materialfor a wide variety of approaches to automatic language acquisition, a rei~rence standard for the rigorous evaluationof some components of natural language understanding systems, and a research tool for the investigation of thegrammar and prosodic structure of naturally spoken English.Summary of AccomplishmentsTreebank?
We have developed the Penn Treebank Annotator's Manual which gives about 40 pages of specification for theuse of our part-of-speech tag set.?
We have manually corrected over 4 million words by part of speech, with an error rate of about 2.5%.
Thisoutput is produced at a consistent rate of about 3,000-3,500 words per hour.?
To provide highly accurate bigram frequency estimates, two subcorpora were tagged twice and then adjudicated,yielding ,--460,000 words tagged with an accuracy estimated to exceed 99.5%.
This procedure has an output ofabout 1,000 words per hour overall.?
We have developed a mouse-based annotator's workstation for syntactic bracketting, and a preliminary tag setand annotator's guide for syntactic bracketing.
Annotators have begun learning to edit bracketed structures,posteditting the output of Don Hindle's Fidditch parser, which we have acquired from AT&T Bell Labs.Learning?
We have developed a new information theoretic parsing algorithm which derives an (unlabelled) bracketing offree text without the use of an explicit grammar.
Our current implementation determines recursively nestedsentence structure, with an error rate of roughly 2 misplaced boundaries for test sentences of 10-15 words, androughly five for sentences of 15-30 words.?
To see whether a purely distributional analysis can discover part of speech information, we have developed asimilarity measure which accurately clusters closed-class lexical items of the same grammatical category, failingonly on those words which are ambiguous between multiple parts of speech.Plans?
We expect o produce our first skeletal parse trees within the next few weeks.?
We intend to retrain Church's tagger, with error rate expected to be less than 3%.
By adjudicating betweenthe output of this new tagger and our current output, we expect well below 1% error, at an additional cost ofbetween 5 and 10 minutes per 1000 words.?
We intend to develop a strategy for collecting naturally occurring task-oriented dialogues in a variety of settings.?
We intend to aggressively extend our results in learning in a variety of settings.
We also intend to investigatesymbolic learning procedures based on a study of the process of creolization of pidgin languages; this work isalready underway.428
