Speech Research at Carnegie MellonRaj Reddy, Principal InvestigatorSchool of Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213Carnegie Mellon University is engaged in a broadprogram of research whose goal is to provide theknowledge, currently missing, that will allow us to effec-tively integrate speech into the computer interface.
Wehave identified a number of areas that we believe are ofcrucial importance to the acceptance of speech as a stan-dard modality of human-computer communication.
Ourseparate r search areas are united by the common theme ofeliminating the fundamental limitations of current speechrecognition technology.
We are currently working in thefollowing areas:?
Improved Recogn i t ion  Techn iques  - -  We arebeginning the development of a 5000-word, speakerindependent, connected speech recognition system.To maintain high accuracy on these larger tasks, weare pursuing anumber of different strategies.
We areinvestigating better subword models, improvedlearning algorithms, and rapid configuration for newvocabularies and tasks.
We are also collecting a largedatabase of task-independent speech and investigatingmore efficient ways of handling larger amounts oftraining data.?
F luent  Human/Mach ine  In ter faces  - -  We areinvestigating the utility of speech in severalday-to-day interactive tasks.
We have developed aneffective interface for complex problem-solvingapplications using spoken language, and implementeda real-time spoken-language system for the OfficeManager (OM) system.
We have also developedstrategies that will allow users to dynamically modifytasks by adding new words and grammaticalconstructs.
Our plans include extending the OMsystem and deploying it within the group to studyspoken-language interaction for meaningful dailytasks like mail, management, appointment scheduling,and personal database manipulation.
* Acoust i ca l  and  Env i ronmenta l  Robustness  - -  Wehave recently developed algorithms that deal withseveral classes of variability in the speech signal,including noise-subtraction algorithms based ontraditional approaches that substantially eliminatestationary noise interference.
More recently, we havedeveloped techniques that allow us to approachcomparable r cognition performance from a variety ofmicrophones, including table-top microphones,without he need to specifically train for eachmicrophone.
This latter esult has brought us close tomicrophone independence.?
Unders tand ing  Spontaneous  Spoken Language - -Moving beyond small languages and rigid syntax,situations in which the user cannot (or will not) learna restricted command language, requires the use ofsophisticated parsing techniques that can deal withill-formed speech.
M-formedness can bemispronunciation, agrammaticality, he presence ofrestarts, as well as more mundane phenomena such asinterjections (um's and ah's) and pauses.
We havedeveloped a frame-based parsing approach that hasbeen remarkably successful inparsing ill-formedinput and in dealing with a variety of commonnatural-language phenomena such as anaphora ndellipsis.
We have successfully integrated this parserinto ATIS, the Air Travel Information System, andOM, the Office Manager system.?
Dialog Modeling - -  Real-world tasks have numerousconstraints that allow us to predict successfully thecourse of an interaction.
We have been extending thework begun with the MINDS system to additionaldomains and have successfully demonstrated thatsimilar dialog-level constraints can be applied torecognition.
We are currently focusing on the ATISdomain to develop dialog models which have thepotential to reduce perplexity by an order ofmagnitude.411
