Session 10: Evaluation of Systemson the Resource Management DatabaseGeorge Doddington, ChairTexas InstrumentsP.
O.
Box 655474, MS238Dallas, TX 75265This session presented papers on a number of differentapproaches to improving speech recognition performance,developed and evaluated on the DARPA resource manage-ment speech database.
The session began with a summarypresentation of results by Dave PalletL Most systems per-form comparably, with word-level total error rates in therange of about 6 percent on the June 1990 RM2 speaker-independent test set.
The best performance, 4.3 percenterror, was achieved at CMU.BBN, in explonng training and speaker adaptation tech-niques, found that a large amount of speech from a few(12) speakers i effective for speaker-independent training,provided that the speakers' data are not pooled before train-ing.
This technique facilitates rapid speaker adaptation andincremental increases in the training database.AT&T and CMU presented papers on exploration ofenhanced acoustic features to improve recognition perfor-mance, with emphasis on higher-order differences inspeech parameters.
AT&T used multivariate Gaussianmixture models, while CMU expanded their discrete modelto 4 codebooks.
When a semi-continuous observationmodel was used in conjunction with these 4 codebooks, acombined total error rate reduction of 30 percent was ach-ieved, yielding 4.3 percent word error.MIT Lincoln Laboratory also demonstrated performancewith a semi-continuous or tied mixture observation model,and introduced the "semiphone", a context-dependentphonetic model with the reduced time scope from the tradi-tional triphone, which promises significant reduction innumber of models.SRI presented two papers, the first exploring training setissues and the second noise robustness.
SRI found thatspeaker-independent r cognition performance ould be sig-nificantly improved (word error was reduced by 20 per-cen0 by tripling the size of the training data set with a largeamount of data from a few (12) speakers.
This supports thefinding of BBN.
SRI also were able to achieve significantperformance improvement from separated sex-specificrecognition models and from corrective training.SSI explored tree-structured MMI encoding and foundslight improvement over traditional minimum distortionencoding.
These results are preliminary, however, and er-ror rates were in general significantly higher than those forother systems.297
