Research in Text Processing:Creat ing Robust  and Portable SystemsComputer Science DepartmentNew York UniversityRalph Grishman, Principal InvestigatorObjectiveOur goal is to improve the technology for retrieving pas-sages, extracting specific facts, and creating formatteddata bases from large text collections.
In particular, weare concerned with developing techniques for automati-cally training language processing systems to the syntaxand semantics of particular domains and types of text inorder to improve system performance.ApproachImproving the natural anguage technology for informa-tion extraction and retrieval will require?
increased knowledge of specialized language usageand domain semantics?
tools for acquiring this knowledge?
analysis mechanisms which can cope with gaps inthis knowledgeIn natural language text, much of the information is im-plicit and much of it, viewed in isolation, is ambiguous.Increased information about syntactic usage, discoursepatterns, and the semantics of particular domains is es-sential to resolve this ambiguity and extract he intendedfacts from the text.However, collecting this information manually for eachtype of text is difficult and time-consuming, and rendersthe system non-portable.
It is therefore desirable to beable to extract such characteristics a  the relative prefer-ence for different syntactic structures and the semanticclasses and constraints automatically from a sample oftext in a particular domain.Since the text samples are finite, this information willalways be incomplete.
In addition, any real text willcontain typographical nd syntactic errors and semanticrelations outside the principal domain.
In consequence, ahigh-performance system will require a forgiving analysisprocedure which tries to minimize constraint violationsbut does not insist on a "perfect" input.To guide and evaluate our work on the underlyingtechnologies, we have developed three message process-ing applications over the past five years.
The first wasfor CASREPs - equipment failure messages.
The fo-cus for this system was on deep domain models for lan-guage understanding, and in particular for the determi-nation of the implicit causal and temporal relations be-tween events in a narrative.
The other systems involvedRAINFORMs and OPREPs - messages describing navalencounters and engagements.
These systems were devel-oped for the Message Understanding Conferences orga-nized by the Naval Ocean Systems Center.
The focus forthese systems was on robustness: the ability to extract atleast partial information despite violations of syntacticor semantic onstraints.Recent WorkSince the last Message Understanding Conference (inJune 1989) we have analyzed some of the factors con-tributing to the performance of our system.
We re-ported at the last DARPA Workshop on the crucial roleplayed by preference semantics in increasing the numberof events correctly identified.
We have also examined theeffects of our heuristics on the error rate - the numberof incorrect event frames generated by the system.
Wefound that the number of errors increased only slightly inabsolute terms, and decreased as a fraction of the totalset of event frames generated by the system (Grishmanand Sterling, COLING 90 Proc.).
We have also improvedsystem speed somewhat, reducing the time required to~ process the 105 message corpus from about 14 hours toless than 4 hours (on a Symbolics 3645).As part of our progression towards more knowledge-able systems, we have developed some techniques for in-corporating information about the relative frequency ofdifferent syntactic onstructs into the context-free coreof our grammar.
This work is being reported at thisworkshop (Chitrao and Grishman).We have incorporated a commercial dictionary (theOxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary of Contermpo-rary English) into our system to supplement the special-ized dictionaries we have developed for particular appli-cations.Finally, we have continued our work on sublanguage-based Japanese-English machine translation (supportedin part by the National Science Foundation).422
