Interactive Multimedia Explanation forEquipment Maintenance and RepairKathleen McKeown and Steven FeinerDepartment ofComputer Science450 Computer Science BuildingColumbia UniversityNew York, N.Y. 10027ObjectivesWe are developing COMET, an interactive system thatgenerates multimedia explanations of how to operate,maintain, and repair equipment.
Our research stresses thedynamic generation of the content and form of all materialpresented, addressing issues in the generation of text andgraphics, and in coordinating text and graphics in an in-tegrated presentation.COMET contains a static knowledge base describingobjects and plans for maintenance and repair, and adynamic knowledge source for diagnosing failures.
Ex-planations are produced using a content planner that deter-mines what information should be communicated, a mediacoordinator that determines which information should bere.allzcd in graphics and which in text, and separate t xt andgraphics generators.
The graphics and text for a singleexplanation are laid out on the screen by a media layoutcomponent.
A menu interface allows users to request ex-planations of specific procedures or to specify failuresymptoms that will invoke a diagnostic omponent.
Thediagnostic component can ask the user to carry outprocedures that COMET will explain if requested.
In con-wast to hypermedia systems that present previously au-thored material, COMET has underlying models of the userand context that allow each aspect of the explanationgenerated tobe based on the current situation.Our focus in the text generation component has been onthe development of the Functional Unification Formalism(FUF) for non-syntactic tasks, of a large syntactic grammarin FUF, of lexical choice in FUF using constraints fromunderlying knowledge sources and from past discourse, andof models of conslraints on several classes of word choice.Important results in the graphics component include theknowledge-hased design of 3D illustrations, adesign-grid-hased methodology for display layout, and thedevelopment of a novel graphical history interface that al-lows users to review previous essions.Finally, we have had significant results in the develop-ment of our media coordinator which, unlike other systems,features a common description language that allows a fine-grained ivision of information between text and graphics.The media coordinator maps information to media specificresources, and allows information expressed in one mediato influence realization in the other.
This allows for tightintegration and coordination between different media.Recent Accomplishments?
Integrated the different systems of which COMET iscomprised to produce arunning testbed that createsmultimedia explanations on-the-fly, in response touser requests.
Our testbed system generates and laysout a full display of text and graphics in 15--25seconds.?
Incorporated user model constraints on contentgeneration, to avoid presenting information that hasbeen presented previously.?
Extended the support for using FUF in vocabularychoice, adding the ability to access the knowledgebase from the lexicon to influence the choice ofvocabulary.?
Added the ability to use previous discourse toinfluence the choice of vocabulary.?
Began implementing support for coordinating pictureand text breaks.?
Began implementing support for cross-referencesbetween text and graphics.?
Extended the ability of the graphics generator torepresent actions by means of metaobject arrows.?
Began the preliminary design of facilities for userexploration of the generated explanation, includingthe ability to examine depicted objects from differentviewpoints than those chosen by the system.413
