Project Summary: Linguistic KnowledgeSourcesfor Spoken Language UnderstandingPrincipal InvestigatorsLynette Hirschraan and Deborah DahlUnisys Defense SystemsCenter for Advanced Information TechnologyPaoli, PA 19301The objective of the Unisys Spoken Language Systemseffort is to develop and demonstrate t chnology for theunderstanding of goal-directed spontaneous speech in-put.
The Unisys spoken language architecfure couplesa speech recognition system (the MIT Summit system)with the Unisys discourse understanding system Pundit.Pundit is a broad-coverage language understanding sys-tem used in a variety of message understanding applica-tions and extended to handle spoken language input.
Itspower comes from the integration of syntax, semanticsand pragmatics (context), the ability to port r~pidly tonew task domains, and from an open, modular architec-ture.
Pundit is unique in its ability to handle connecteddiscourse; it includes a reference resolution module thattracks "discourse ntities" and distinguishes referencesto previously mentioned entities from the introduction ofnew entities.
The Pundit front-end supports turn-takingdialogue and permits the system to include both ques-tions and answers in building an integrated iscoursecontext, required for the handling of interactive commu-nication.
Pundit has been interfaced to speech recog-aition systems (both Summit and the 1TT continuousspeech recogniser) to perform applications on direction-finding assistance (Voyager), air travel planning (ATIS),and air traffic control (Right strip updating).ProgressDuring the first year of our contract, we have portedthe MIT Summit system and provided a loosely coupledinterface with Pundit, via an N-best interface.
Punditprocesses the N top-scoring acoustic hypotheses until itfinds an "understandable" hypothesis.
We have beensble to evaluate performance of this system on a demon-stration task for direction finding assistance (based onthe Mrr  Voyager system).
We have also paxticipated inthe DARPA Common Evaluation Task in the Air TravelInformation System domain.
In support of the evalua-tion efforts, we have proposed an evaluation techniquefor automated ialogue evaluation and have developedtechniques for "outside evaluators" to evaluate correct-ness of query/response pai_~.
Our major results to dateinclude:Demonstration of70% correct est results onunseen data for a typed direction-assistanttask, based on 1000-sentence training corpus,using the Pundit language understandingsystem plus a dialogue management front-end which manages the user/computer con-versation.Demonstration of a loosely coupled SpokenLanguage System (50-100x real-time); in ini-tial experiments, application accuracy is ap-proximately 50% for Spoken Language testdata, with a false alarm rate ofless than 5%.Demonstration of a typed query front-endfor the Air Travel Information System appli-cation, interfaced to an INGRES database.Metrics will be reported at the June DARPAWorkshop.Development of a proposal for evaluationof discourse, extending the notion of thedatabase comparator for use in evaluation ofsentences in context.PlansOur plans for the coming year focus on increasing theperformance of our spoken language system, with partic-ular focus on measuring and improving system usability,that is, the degree to which the system helps (or hin-ders) a user to accomplish a particulax task.
This willrequite extensions to the vocabulary (1000-2000 words),increase in perplexity (60-100), increased coverage (atleast 70%), and improved error diagnosis and feedback.It will also require the development of metrics for usersatisfaction and for task completion.
This goal will alsodrive development ofint~active dialogue capability, pro-riding co-operative responses to users.
We plan to de-velop a testbed, where we can interface multiple speechrecognition front-ends to Pundit, via the N-best inter-face and the stack-decoder interface developed at LincolnLabs.
This will provide insight into some of the trade-offs between recognizer improvements and improvementsin language understanding.426
