Session 4: System Implementation StrategiesRoberto Bisiani, ChairSchool of Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213This is both a summary of what happened at the sessionand an introduction to the papers.
Although the opinionsexpressed here are as balanced as possible, they mightreflect my bias, for which I apologize in advance.The session was targeted towards the issues that areraised by the implementation f complete, real-time sys-tems.
It seems that he Speech Community has finally real-ized the importance of demonstrating fully usable real-timesystems.
Two definitions of real-time seemed to be accept-able to the workshop articipants.
A system is real timeeither if:?
it can keep-up with continuous input or if?
it returns afully parsed sentence within 200ms fromthe end of the utterance.The issues in implementing usable systems are:?
recognition speed;?
development cost and time;?
production cost.The papers in the session concentrated on the first twoissues.
It was very nice to see that two papers out of threeprovided non-trivial speed improvements mainly withsoftware techniques.The BBN paper, the first to be presented, hinged on anumber of algorithmic improvements.
The most notablesbeing the reduction of the number of transitions in a gram-mar by means of zero states and the use of a suboptimalbut fast Forward-Backward Search.
It is difficult toprecisely evaluate the relative improvement figures shownin the paper because they are measured with respect o thespeed of an initial system of unknown (programming)quality, Nevertheless, the algorithmic speed improvementswere substantially arger than the improvements due to thehardware (a state-of-the-art i860 board).The second paper, presented by Dragon, hinged on atechnique, called rapid match, that cuts the number ofhypothesis during the search by limiting it to a subset of thepossible words.
This technique makes it possible to imple-ment useful and impressive recognition systems on garden-variety 386-based personal computers.
As with the pre-vious paper, the advantages provided by better hardwarewere much less impressive than the advantages made pos-sible by clever algorithms.A completely different approach was presented by SRIand Berkeley.
The paper describes a custom machine thatimplements a heavily pipelined Viterbi search.
Customchips and a large amount of memory make up the bulk ofthe machine.
The performance, at least on paper, is abouttwo orders of magnitude better than the performance ofcurrent general purpose systems.
Although this gap mightbe reduced to one order of magnitude by the inlroducdon ofnew general purpose systems, the performance of this sys-tem is potentially very impressive.
The audience had ques-tions on technology (MOSIS CMOS) and on availability(sometime towards the end of the year).At the end of the session the chairman gave a briefprogress report on the PLUS system being developed byCMU.
This system was not described at the workshop be-cause it has already been described in computer architec-ture papers.
PLUS is a distributed-memory multiprocessorcomposed of mesh-connected nodes.
Each node contains aMotorola 88000, static and dynamic memory, and circuitryto make the local memory visible to all the other processorsas if it were local to them.
Systems with 1 to 64 nodes arepossible.
Each system is connected to a supportingworkstation through its SCSI bus, facilities for input/outputof digitized speech are provided.
Construction of PLUS isproceeding and a few nodes will be running by the end ofthe summer.This, I believe, was a very positive session.
It showed usthat it will soon be possible to implement in real time:1. small but non-trivial tasks on commercial hardware;2. complex tasks that require fast search on customhardware;3. full complex tasks, including natural languageprocessing and data base search on semi-customhardware.All these solutions will cost no less than a medium-sizeworkstation.
Should we start worrying about how to usealgorithmic improvements and technology to build muchcheaper systems?73_
