SRI's Experience with the ATIS EvaluationRobert Moore, Douglas Appelt, John Bear,Mary Dalrymple, and Douglas MoranSRI International333 Ravenswood Ave.Menlo Park, CA 94025AbstractSRI International participated in the June 1990 Air Travel In-formation System (ATIS) natural-language evaluation.
Thisreport briefly describes the system that SRI used in the evalu-ation, analyzes SRI's results, and makes some recommenda-tions for changes in the database structure and data collectionsystem to be used for future ATIS evaluations.The SRI ATIS SystemThe natural-language processing system used by SRI in theJune 1990 ATIS evaluation is a derivative of the Core Lan-guage Engine (CLE) developed at SRI's Cambridge ResearchCentre in Cambridge, England [I].
At present, the main pro-cessing components of SRI's ATIS system are taken fromthe CLE, while the grammar, semantic interpretation rules.and lexicon are substantially new.
The system divides queryprocessing into the following phases:Lexical lookupSyntactic parsingSemantic interpretation and selectional filteringQuantifier scopingDatabase query generationQuery optimizationDatabase retrievalThe syntactic and semantic rules used in the parsing andinterpretation phases are expressed in a unification-based for-malism.
The parser is based on a left-comer parsing algorithmfor context-free grammar that has been generalized to applyto unification grammar by substituting unification for identitychecks in dealing with gramatical category expressions.
Anattribute/value notation for feature constraints is provided forthe grammar writer, but this notation is compiled into ordinaryterm structures by assigning, for each major category symbol,an argument position for each feature that can occur with thatcategory.
Grammatical unification is then implemented sim-ply as term unification in Prolog, which is the implementationlanguage used in the system.In the semantic interpretation phase, logical form expres-sions are computed bottom-up by applying semantic interpre-tation rules keyed to the syntax rules.
Terms in the logicalform language have semantic sorts associated with them, andfunctors are restricted with respect to the sorts of their argu-ments.
These sort restrictions are applied as the logical formsare constructed, acting as a filter on the structures produced bythe syntactic and semantic rules.
The outputs of the seman-tic interpretation phase are quasi-logical forms in which thescope of quantified noun phrases has not yet been determined.Quantifier scope is assigned in the next phase of processing.At this point in processing, a database-independent formalrepresentation of the meaning of the query has been assigned.This is transformed into a database query, principally by re-placing the logical-form constants and predicates derived fromthe lexicon with database predicates and constants.
The queryis then re-ordered, if necessary, to optimize database retrieval,and the answer is retrieved from the database, which is storedas a set of Prolog clauses.Analysis of ResultsIn the blind test conducted for the June 1990 ATIS evalua-tion, out of 90 test queries, the SRI system produced correctanswers for 25, incorrect answers for 5, and no answer for60.
Thus, the dominant factor in the performance of the SRIsystem was that most queries failed to get through all stagesof processing.
Table 1 displays the number and percentage ofthe queries that failed to get past various levels of processing.These numbers should be regarded at best as only an ap-proximation of the performance of the different componentsof the system, for two reasons.
First, no attempt has beenmade to judge the correctness of the output of individual sys-tem phases, only to determine whether the phase produced ananswer at all.
Second, the failure rate of the later phases ofprocessing would probably have been higher if more querieshad gotten past the earlier phases of processing.With these caveats, the results seem to indicate that most ofthe difficulties arose in the semantic interpretation phase andthe database query generation phase.
The grammar seemedto provide fairly good coverage of the syntactic construc-tions used, and the lexicon performed surprisingly well giventhat the vocabulary in the test was completely uncontrolled.Undoubtedly, many of the parsing and interpretation failuresInterpretationDB query gen.Level 1 Number I PercentTable 1: Analysis of SRI ATIS ResultsLexiconwere due to the absence of some of the necessary lexicalentries for particular words, but almost no words in the testmaterial were totally absent from the lexicon.The semantic rules and the database query generator are, infact, the parts of the system that are the most recent in originand must be regarded as far from complete, independently ofhow they performed on this evaluation.
Our main conclusion,then, is simply that much more work is needed on these partsof the system.1 I 1.1RecommendationsIn the course of working with the ATIS database and develop-ment data, it seemed to the SRI team that there are a number ofchanges in the database structure and the data collection sys-tem that would result in more interesting data being collected,and that would make system development easier for ATISsystem builders.
The philosophy that Texas Instruments fol-lowed in setting up the data collection system was to presentinformation to the subject in a way that mirrored as closely aspossible the way the information is presented in the printedOfficial Airline Guide (OAG).
We believe that an attemptshould be made to tailor the presentation of information tothe capabilities of eventual interactive spoken-language com-puter systems rather than the printed page.
The current ATISdata collection system presents a lot of information to the sub-ject in response to most queries, but does so by using manyabbreviated codes and column headings that are compressedin order to fit as much information as possible on one lineof the screen.
This is appropriate for a printed document,because of the difficulties of cross-referencing mutiple tablesin different parts of a printed volume, and because of the needto keep the physical size of the volume down to manageableproportions.
Neither of these reasons applies to an interactivespoken language compter system where cross-referencing iseasly performed by the system, and much larger volumes ofdata are easily handled.We would recommend that the data collection system bemodified to present less information in response to mostqueries, but to present that information in a fuller, less ab-breviated form.
It has been widely noted that about one-thirdof the ATIS queries collected so far are about the meaning ofcodes or abbreviated column headings in the displays, ratherthan about the domain.
If fewer columns were presented ineach display, it would be possible to avoid the use of manyof these abreviations.
Moreover, it might prompt subjects toask more follow-up questions to retrieve the information notdisplayed, generating a wider range of queries in the domainof air travel planning.Implementing this recommendation will require changingnot only the displays, but also the structure of the database,so that database tuples that differ only in information notdisplayed to the subject can be eliminated.
Otherwise, thesubject would see what appear to be duplicate answers in thedisplay.A number of other changes to the structure of the databasewould also seem to be desirable.
One significant problemis the status of connecting flights.
We believe it is impor-tant to devote some thought and attention to restructuring thedatabase to put connecting flights on an equal footing withdirect flights in the ATIS database.
Currently, these are noteven listed in the flight table, so that requests for all flightsthat meet certain constraints result in information only aboutdirect flights.
As a result there are almost no queries aboutconnecting flights in the ATIS data, perhaps because the sub-jects are not aware of their existence.
A related issue is thatthere is no fare information on connecting flights, because itis not presented in the printed OAG.
We believe that if fareinformation for connecting flights cannot be obtained fromOAG, then reasonable fares should be computed for them.These seem to us to be the most important database anddata collection system issues that need to be addressed forfuture ATIS evaluations, but there are many other smallerissues as well.
We therefore suggest that a task force shouldbe created to address these issues and decide on changes to beimplemented for future ATIS evaluations.References[I] Alshawi, et al Interim Report on the SRI Core Lan-guage Engine, Technical Report CCSRC-5, SRI Inter-national, Cambridge Research Centre, Cambridge, Eng-land, 1988.
