Session 2: Natural Language IDamaris M. Ayuso, ChairBBN Systems and Technologies CorporationCambridge, MA 02138This first session on natural anguage covered a widevariety of topics, from formal treatments of semantics toresearch in multi-media interactions.The first paper, by L. Schubert and C. Hwang, con-centrated on compositionally defining the mapping be-tween a sentence and an appropriate meaning represen-tation that takes tense and aspect into account.
In order toderive non-indexical formulae from indexical ones as afunction of context, they make use of a novel type of con-text component, a tense tree which evolves throughout thediscourse.
Occurrences of tense-aspect operators arerepresented as tree branches corresponding to episode(event) relationships.
An interesting feature of these treesis that one can "read off" the tree the relationships implicitin the tense-aspect operators and surface ordering of sen-tences.K.
McKeown from Columbia University gave a mul-timedia presentation showing examples of COMET'scapabilities.
The presentation focused on the recent ad-vances in COMET, in particular, improvements in mediacoordination, text generation, and graphics generation.
Inexperiments where both pictures and text are generated inan explanation, users were found to strongly prefer thatsentence breaks correspond to picture breaks.
Con-sequently the text and graphics generators are now coor-dinated to ensure appropriate sentence breaks where pos-sible by influencing lexical choice and syntactic structure.In text generation, a framework for lexical choice wasdeveloped using the Functional Unification Formalism,which allows the integration of various types of constraintsuniformly.
Finally, the generation of graphics was madecontext-dependent in certain areas, e.g., constraints fromprevious pictures apply to the current picture in order toprevent disconcerting, unnecessary changes in viewpoint.Although the Y. Schabes and A. Joshi paper coveredtwo recent advances in TAGs, synchronous TAGs and LR-style parsers for TAGs, Schabes focused in his talk on theuse of synchronous tags for interpretation.
By representingsemantic expressions as TAG trees, simple mappings canbe defined between trees in the grammar and these seman-tic trees o that via the synchronous TAG process, a logicalform can be derived as a parse tree is built.
This approachis similar to the classic syntax-rule/semantic-rule composi-tional mappings of other NL systems.
However, Schabespointed out that the advantages offered by the extendeddomain of locality of TAGs in syntax are also useful forsemantic purposes, e.g., in treating idioms and long-distance WH-dependencies.
The use of synchronous TAGsfor machine translation was also mentioned, where TAGtrees in the grammars of two languages are relatedsynchronously.E.
Hovy from ISI/USC reported on a new experimentbased on an old idea: using a KL-ONE-Iike knowledgerepresentation system to perform tasks now normally donevia unification in unification-based NL systems.
The ideais that a single knowledge base should encode both syntac-tic and semantic knowledge, so that via a single operation,classification, the system will deduce the correctsyntactic/semantic description of the sentence, given an in-itial skeletal description.
Although knowledge represen-tation (KR) systems were not powerful enough when thisapproach was first proposed by Bobrow and Webber in1980, the KR system Loom provides the additional neededfeatures: more complete inference of disjointness and in-ference with respect o coverings.
Hovy argued that sub-stantial efficiency improvements over unification-based ap-proaches could be obtained by this classification approachbecause of inherent structure sharing, consistency main-tenance, and explicit type-hierarchy representations.
Hepresented an optimistic view of the future cooperation pos-sibilities between KR and NL researchers, who have tradi-tionally kept their distance.
This view is based on the factthat Loom developers have already implemented sugges-tions useful for NL processing.J.
Hobbs from SRI reported on his continuing search forthe optimal point in the efficiency versus power scale forthe abduction component ofTACITUS.
Given that abduc-tion is combinatoriaUy explosive, an empirical investiga-tion is being done exploring 3 different techniques for con-trolling the computational cost of abduction: the use of atype hierarchy, the unwinding of transitivity axioms, andvarious heuristics for reducing the branch factor of thesearch.
Large speedups were reported ue to the incor-poration of a type hierarchy for pre-f'dtering axioms andeliminating some inconsistent assumptions.
Where sometransitivity axioms were creating arbitrary recursion, theywere "unwound" to limit recursion depth.
Finally, severalheuristics, such as proving easy (specific) conjuncts firstand propagating those results, were presented for the pur-pose of reducing branching of the search.33
