Adaptive Natural Language ProcessingRalph WeischedelBBN Systems and Technologies Corporation10 Moulton St.Cambridge, MA 021381 ObjectivesCurrent NLP technology is very weak at understanding ewwords, novel forms, or input containing errors.
The objec-tive of this project is a pilot study of several new ideas for theautomatic adaptation and improvement of natural anguageprocessing (NLP) systems.
The effort focuses particularly onautomatically inferring the meaning of new words in contextand on developing partial interpretations of language that iseither fragmentary or beyond the capability of the NLP sys-tem to understand.
The techniques are being evaluated ina message processing domain, such as automatic data baseupdate based on articles from The Wall Street Journal oncorporate takeover bids.The NLP system wit use large annotated corpora, suchas those being developed under the DARPA-funded TREE-BANK project at the University of Pennsylvania, to adaptby acquiring syntactic and semantic information from theannotated examples.
Large knowledge bases of commonfacts will contribute to adaptability by providing informa-tion necessary for semantic analysis and discourse analysis.Statistical language modeling, based on probability estimatesderived from the large corpora, will provide a means of rank-ing alternative interpretations of fragments.This pilot study is designed to test the feasibility of sucha new approach.3?
In a preliminary experiment, we obtained areduction inthe error rate in predicting part of speech of an unknownword by a factor of two, compared to random choice.?
We found that he probabflistic language model is usefulin indicating which parses containing an unknown wordshould be used for inferring the new word's properties.?
We installed and evaluated available software that couldcontribute to this effort, including the Proteus naturallanguage system from New York University and theSMART information retrieval software from ComellUniversity.Plans?
Implement and test procedures for ranking partial in-terpretations when the system cannot fully interpret theinput.?
Revise probability models and inference strategies toimprove system performance.?
Explore automatic methods for learning semantic infor-mation of unknown words.2 Summary of AccomplishmentsIn the three months since this project began, we have runpilot experiments on the effectiveness of probability modelsfor (1) ranking interpretations of sentences, (2) predictingthe part of speech of known but ambiguous words, and (3)predicting the part of speech of unknown words.
Addition-ally, we are experimenting with using unification algorithmsto infer properties of an unknown word from examples.In preliminary experiments, we obtained a reduction inthe error rate in selecting the correct interpretation f asentence by a factor of from two to four, depending onthe test material.Using supervised training for a tri-tag probabilisticmodel, we achieved a 3-5% error rate on a test setm picking the correct part of speech.
405
