Overview of theThird DARPA Speech and Natural Language WorkshopRichard M. Stern, General ChairSchool of Computer ScienceDepartment ofElectrical and Computer EngineeringCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213The Third DARPA Speech and Natural LanguageWorkshop was designed to provide a forum for the presen-tation of research results and the discussion of technicalissues related to a variety of DARPA research programs inspoken language systems, speech recognition, natural an-guage processing, and related areas.
The workshop alsoprovided an opportunity to discuss the long-term goals ofthese programs, to develop strategies that will facilitate thesharing of databases and useful technology by all sites inthe DARPA community, and to develop standards bywhich progress can be evaluated.One of the major focal points of the three-day workshopwas an extended iscussion of the new DARPA spoken-language common task, the Air Travel Information System(ATIS).
The topics of these sessions, which were or-ganized and chaired by Dave Pallett, included escriptionsof the rationale and infrastructure of the task, as well asreports from sites that had just completed the first round ofcommon evaluations of spoken-language systems in theATIS domain.
The other special session, organized byMitch Marcus, concerned the automatic acquisition of lin-guistic structure.
This session highlighted significantprogress being made in the exploitation of large corporaand in the fusion of symbolic and probabilistic methods.The remainder of the technical program consisted ofreports on recent progress and new technical developmentsin the areas of speech recognition (including results fromthe latest benchmark evaluations on the Resource Manage-ment task), natural language processing, and spoken lan-guage system.
David Nagel delivered a keynote address onspoken language and the personal computer.The technical program was augmented by an eveningsession of system demonstrations coordinated by VictorZue, with videotaped presentations by AT&T BellLaboratories, Columbia, and Texas Instruments, and livedemos by Dragon Systems, Entropic Systems, MIT, andMIT Lincoln Laboratory.
Both the videotapes and the livedemos were highly effective: the live systems were thefocus of a great deal of attention and scrutiny throughoutthe meeting, and the videotapes provided a good picture ofthe current status of other systems that were not so easilytransported.
Many of us were extremely impressed by theperformance of the systems demonstrated live at HiddenValley.
The promotional film Advances in Spoken-Language Research 1970-1990: A DARPA Perspective wasalso screened to an approving audience.
The CMU speechgroup hosted the attendees at an open house following theworkshop which included demonstrations of their spokenlanguage and speech recognition systems.This volume includes the papers of the technicalprogram, plus site reports from the various DARPA con-tractors, and a white paper by Cliff Weinstein on speechprocessing in military computer-based systems.In recent years the DARPA speech and natural anguageworkshops have evolved from a small informal discussionof current progress and plans to a much larger and moreformal meeting which has become a primary forum for theexchange of major research results.
The success of thisseries of workshops, and of the underlying DARPA-sponsored program of research in spoken language, hasbeen confirmed by the recent widespread surge of interestin spoken-language systems outside the DARPA com-munity, and by the extremely high standards of excellenceof the papers presented atthe meeting itself.Many people were responsible for the success of thisworkshop.
The inputs of the Organizing Committee, LynBates, Lynette Hirschman, Mitch Marcus, KathyMcKeown, Doug Paul, Patti Price, Salim Roukos, and Vic-tor Zue, were crucial not only in the selection of papers forthe technical program, but also for many meta-level deci-sions which greatly affected the overall shape of theworkshop.
The advice of the two previous workshopchairs, Lynette Hirschman and Victor Zue, was extremelyvaluable.
Dave Pallett's assistance in organizing the tech-nical program is gratefully acknowledged, aswell.
I alsothank Judy Bandola, Romina Fincher, and Shilpa Agarwalfor their help in coordinating the flow of paper and infor-mation, John Hampshire and Christopher Young for theirhelp in translating document formats, as well as Bob Bren-nan, Eric Thayer, and Bob Weide for their technical assis-tance at the meeting itself.
Finally, Charles Waynedeserves major credit for his oversight of the spoken lan-guage program and for his vision of what the speech andnatural anguage workshops could become.
