EXTENDING THE SCOPE OFTEXT UNDERSTANDING SYSTEMS EVALUATIONBeth SundheimNaval Ocean Systems Center, Code d4~San Diego, CA 92152-5000sundheim@nosc.milThe Naval Ocean Systems Center is extending the scopeof previous efforts in the area of evaluating English textanalysis systems.
These evaluations are intended to ad-vance our understanding of the merits of current textanalysis techniques, as appfied to the performance of arealistic information extraction task (where the outputresembles the contents of a formatted atabase).
Thepremise on which the evaluations are based is that task-oriented tests enable straightforward comparisons amongsystems and provide useful quantitative data on the state ofthe art in text understanding.
Furthermore, the data can beinterpreted in light of information known about eachsystem's text analysis techniques in order to yield qualita-tive insights into the relative validity of those techniques asapplied to the general problem of information extraction.The third evaluation is being launched in August 1990.It will be broader in scope than previous ones in mostrespects, including text characteristics, task specifications,and anticipated range of analysis techniques.
These dif-ferences are motivated by feedback from participants in thesecond evaluation.
Two thousand texts are being collectedfor use as training and test data: a data extraction task onthe subject of Latin American terrorism and a semi-automated sconng algorithm are being defined.The conference announcement has been sent to systemdevelopers who arc pursuing a wide range of text inter-pretation techniques (e.g., statistical, key-word, template-driven, and natural anguage processing), and it is hopedthat at least twenty organizations will participate.
A con-ference will be held in mid-November, 1990 to discuss theresults of a trial test run and to work out issues affectingthe test design, scoring, etc.
A shorter conference will beheld in mid-February, 1991 to present he results of finaltesting and summarize the findings of the evaluation.All systems will be evaluated on performance on thedatabase generation task in a blind test.
Measures will bedatabase completeness (recall) and accuracy (precision),which will be calculated for the test set overall, with break-downs by slot.
It is expected that different techniques willhave varying degrees of success in filling slots, dependingon such factors as whether the number of possible slotfillers is small, finite, or open-ended and whether the slotcan typically be filled by fairly straightforward extractionor not.
In addition to these official measures, unofficialmeasures will be taken of performance on particular lin-gvisfic phenomena (e.g., conjunction), as measured by thedatabase fills generated by the systems in particular sets ofinstances.420
