MACHINE TRANSLATION IN EUROPES.
Warwick-ArmstrongI SSCOUnivers i ty  o f  Geneva54, Rte.
des Acac ias1227 Geneva,  SWITZERLANDINTRODUCTIONWhereas in the United States work in machine translation(MT) has only recently been reinstated as a 'respectable' naturallanguage processing (NLP) application, it has long beenconsidered a worthwhile and interesting topic for research anddevelopment in both Europe and Japan.
In terms of number ofprojects in one sub-field of computational linguistics, MT iscurrently perhaps the most important application.
1 Oneobvious reason for this is simply the daily awareness thatpeople communicate in languages other than English, asituation that naturally encourages an interest in translation.On a practical evel, for example, every television cablesystem in Europe broadcasts stations from numerous countries,and on the political level, the European Community (EC) iscommitted to protecting the language of each of the MemberStates, which implies providing numerous translation services.From an economic viewpoint, every company knows that inorder to market its products, the documentation must be in thelanguage of the target country.
And a last motivation forinterest in MT, which was also the origin of MT activities inthe US and an important concern for Japan, is the desire forbetter access to information--important documents often existin some foreign language.Yet MT in Europe is not viewed as just a matter ofdeveloping working MT systems for commercial and practicalneeds--it is also accepted as a legitimate topic of research.
Theview of MT as a test bed for NLP work has long been defendedin the United States (Kay,1980).
Reasons why this positionhas only recently gained favor can be attributed to Bar-Hillel'sstrong view on the impossibility of high-quality MT coupledwith the far-reaching effects the ALPAC report (1966) had onfunding in the US.
All direct funding for translation waswithdrawn and redirected to more basic research and thuslinguistics and AI work prospered.
Though practical workcontinued, as well as a real need for translation, 2 MT fell intodisrepute as an academically respectable nterprise.
Whilethere is consensus that fully automatic high quality MT ofunrestricted text is impossible, it is nevertheless an attractivelong-term goal, similar to pursuits in artificial intelligence.
InEurope, a growing number of researchers in computationallinguistics regard translation as a challenging field ofapplication.
Eased on developments in the field such as a morerigorous formalization of semantics (e.g., MontagueAt the two most recent Coling conferences, for example, thenumber of papers devoted to issues in MT constituted the largestsingle topic; and this figure does not take into account all thegeneral NLP papers presented by the MT projects.Ironically, the Georgetown system, on which the ALPAC reportwas based, continued to be used in Europe, until well into the 70sand Systran, a direct descendant, is still the most widely usedcommercial MT system.grammar), the attention paid to formal and computationalproperties of linguistic theories (e.g., LFG and GPSG) and thedefinition and implementation of linguistically problem-oriented computational methods (e.g., unification), it is quitenatural that attempts are being made to test their adequacy withregard to problems of translation.The multilingual setting of Europe, where translation is afact of life, along with its varied and decentralized fundingagencies (including EC, national and regional programs), asopposed to the more centralized nature of US federal agencies,helps explain why the ALPAC report had less of an impactoverseas.
Machine translation has a long and relatively stabletradition in Europe.
Similar to the early work with computersand language in the United States where CL and MT weresynonymous, MT projects in Europe have served as a vehiclefor developing expertise in computational linguistics incenters which had little experience in the field.
This latterpoint is particularly true in the Eurotra project; Greece, forexample, had no tradition in computational linguistics.The historical and socio-political references have beenintroduced as background material, given the rather strongpositions taken up by members in and out of the communityover the last decades.
The distinction between research anddevelopment or theoretical vs. practical, though somewhatartificial (and definitely a touchy issue in the community),serves as a means of clarifying and motivating what people areworking on and why.
The extreme view repeatedly put forwardby M. Kay that "all machine translation of natural anguages iexperimental ..." (Kay, 1984:75) is, in my view, correct.
Thereare nevertheless things that we can accomplish, albeitimperfectly, and from which we can learn both about languageand about translafion--a situation similar to all NLP work.
Mypurpose here is to distinguish major topics currently popular inMT work and to identify the projects and centers active in thefield.WHAT IS  SPECIF IC  TO MACHINETRANSLAT IONBar-Hillel (1964:212), in one of his numerous papers ontranslation, identified the following five prerequisites for highquality human translation:(1) competent mastery of the source language,(2) competent mastery of the target language,(3) good general background knowledge,(4) expertness in the field,(5) intelligence (know-how).28For MT, the first four are obviously necessary andmoreover, emain research topics for NLP in general.
The lastpoint could simply be replaced by 'the ability to establish acorrespondence b tween the source and target language.'
Forhumans, it is well-known that bilinguals are not necessarilygood translators, and discussing intelligence in the context ofMT (given the lack of any theory of translation and the currentrelatively undeveloped state of the art) would only lead tophilosophical speculation.
Perspectives on combiningArtificial Intelligence (A.I) and MT can be found in thenumerous discussions by Wilks (e.g., Wilks, 1973), mentionedhere in view of his long history in working on this topic bothin the US and in Europe.The major portion of work in any MT project isconcentrated on points (1) and (2) and hence does not differfrom any other NLP project except in so far as it involvesdescriptions of two languages.
Limiting the application to awell defined semantic domain or specific corpus reflects theconcern for points (3) and (4).
One proposal addressing (4)explicitly is to include expert system modules in addition tolinguistic rules (Boitet & Gerber, 1984) or to divide the systeminto expert tasks (Johnson & Whitelock, 1985).
In thisperspective, MT can thus be viewed as a sub-field of NLP whichin some cases, also means incorporating general AItechniques.A number of topics specific to MT can be identified, thoughsome of them may be shared by a portion of the CLcommunity, albeit for different reasons.
For example, theadequate l vel(s) of representation, will be determined in MT bythe ability to express the relevant facts about two naturallanguages and to state the translation relation between them;similarly, in a database query system, the concern is to mapbetween two representations where one is an abstraction of thenatural language xpression but the other is an expression i  aformal query language (which has already been def'med).Current issues which often figure in the literature and whichwe will look at in somewhat more detail are:?
bilingual lexicography (describing words and theirtranslations)?
bil ingual concordancing (using texts and theirtranslations)?
level(s) of representation (the types of information andtheir notation)?
transfer mechanisms (mapping between representations)?
reversibility (of grammars and of the translationrelation)?
compositionality (decomposing the problem, giving adeclarative definition)?
interlingual representation (abstracting away fromnatural language phenomena)This list is by no means exhaustive, but every MTresearcher will have at least one view on most of these topics.Whereas in monolingual lexicography for computationalapplications, progress has been made on at least a subset of thebasic information ecessary, this is not the case in the field ofbilingual lexicography (Warwick, 1987).
In dictionarypublishing houses (of interest as a starting point for buildingmachine tractable dictionaries) bilingual lexicographers areseen as the poor cousins, and across any two dictionaries thereis essentially no consensus on which translations hould beincluded nor on how to code them.
Each project or product has anotation so specific to the system in which it is used, that it isof little use to others.
It is notable that almost all work onusing machine readable dictionaries has concentrated onmonolingual dictionaries, and for the most part only onEnglish; the two European languages which have received someattention are Italian (by the center in Pisa) and German (by theInstitute for the German language, IDS, Mannbeim, and the IKPat the University of Bonn).In light of this situation and given the crucial role that thelexicon plays in any system, this topic has been identified as afield in its own right.
Two European initiatives, EUROTRA-7and MULTILEX, are currently underway under the title of'reusability of lexical resources' (McNaught, 1990).
TheEUROTRA-7 project (ET-7, 1990) is currently conducting abroad survey on what resources are available with a view todeveloping standards for mono-, bi-, and multi-lingual lexicaldescriptions.
3Another project arising from work in EUROTRA, is theEUROTRA-Lexic project whose aim is to build one bilingualdictionary adequate for human and machine needs, involvingpartners from the publishing, private and academic sector(Eurotra-Lexic, 1989).
MULTILEX is an ESPRIT project whoseaims are to develop a European multilingual nd multifunctionallexicon which will be tested in prototypical applications.
TheAcquilex project, also funded under ESPRIT, is another projectworking on standards and a prototype implementation foracquiring and coding mono- and bilingual lexical information.Bilingual concordancing is a relatively new topic whichwill most likely grow in importance, in parallel with thecurrent rend to make use of large corpora.
Instead of buildingan MT system based solely on a corpus and its translation, asreported on in Brown, et al (1988), 4 emphasis in Europe hasbeen on developing tools to navigate through texts as an aidfor the linguist or lexicographer working on the problem ofcharacterizing the context for the translation of words (cf.Picchi & Calzolari, 1986 and Warwick, et al, 1990).
InCzechoslovakia, t the Charles University, Prague, a projecthas just begun to build a bilingual concordance environment forCzech and English as a first step in work on a new machinetranslation project (personal communication).
A somewhatrelated project, which plans to make use of structured texts andtheir translations is the BSO Bilingual Knowledge Bank system(Sadler & Vendelrnans, 1990).
Projects in MT using statisticalmethods are just beginning in a number of centers, butinformation about these activities has not yet reached thepublic domain.
5The result of this survey will be made available to the generalpublic.
Contact: Mr. R. Cenconi, CEC, B410Os, Jean MonnetBldg., 2920 Luxembourg.Other European IBM centers may also begin projects with similarmethods and goals (personal communication).Two centers which have reported on such plans are the Universityof Stuttgart where work on alignment of texts, in view of linkingnot only words but also phrases, is planned, and the Rosettaproject at Philips, which is considering collecting knowledge ofthe world for a separate semantic omponent by statisticalmethods (personal communication).29Representation issues have been at the core of machinetranslation since its very beginning.
One of the current rendsis to use existing linguistic theories as the basis fortranslation.
One project in Stuttgart has been exploring the useof an extended LFG representation as the basis for translation(of, Kaplan et al (1989), also Sadler et al, 1990) whereas aproject in Berlin, has taken GPSG syntactic representations asthe starting point for adding additional levels (Busemarm &Hauenschild, 1988).
6Other examples of basing MT on state of the art CL methodsand theories include the use of situation schemata s the basisfor translation Rupp (1989), defining transfer over 'quasilogical forms' developed at SRI, Cambridge (Alshawi et al,1991) and derivation trees of a Montague style (Landsbergen,1987 & Appelo, et al, 1989).
The Eurotra MT project bases itswork on a number of levels essentially corresponding totraditional linguistic categories, i.e., morphology, syntax,and semantic relations plus a special evel for transfer knownas the interface structure (Arnold, et al, 1985).
These areexplicit levels and a transfer mechanism allows a mappingbetween them (Arnold, 1987, Bech& Nygaard, 1988).
7The search for the ideal level of representation forexpressing a translation relation raises the well known issue oftransfer vs. interlingua.
Almost all projects currently underwayin Europe essentially rely on two independent levels, one perlanguage, with an explicit mapping between the two.
Oneexception is the DLT project which uses Esperanto as a pseudointerlingua (Witkam, 1988); a choice of representation whichhas "aroused a lot of skepticism" in the community (op cit.,p.756).
The one project theoretically committed to aninterlingua is the Rosetta system, a project noteworthy for itstheoretical commitment and steady development over the pastten years (Landsbergen, 1989).
The work on multilingualgeneration based on conceptual hierarchies in the projectPolygloss (Emele et al, 1990) may also be considered a typeof interlingua system.A very practical reason for the popularity of the transfermodel, especially for systems to treat more than one languagepair, stems from the inherent difficulty of defining arepresentation adequate for more than one natural anguage,especially when the competent people who might work onsuch an interlingua cannot work together in one place (as in theEurotra project which is spread all over Europe).
To define aninterlingua for translation requires expertise in linguistics(applied to the languages in question), plus a large range ofissues often labelled 'extra-linguistic,' knowledge oftranslation (to ensure that a mapping is possible) as well asfamiliarity with formalisms for representing the information(as found in much of the work in AI).The German government has demonstrated an importantcommitment to the field of MT as well as NLP in the numerousprojects and positions it has financed.
The two projects aresupported by the government under a program known as Eumtrarelated research projects (Eurotra Begleifforschung).The original motivation for separate l vels in the monolingualportion came in part from practical concerns that for eachlanguage some progress could be measured (e.g., each languagehad accounted for molphology, syntax, etc.).
For the bilingualportion, this choice had a theoretical motivation, i.e., transfer asthe model for translation, and the mechanism for mappingbetween levels was extended todistinct monolingual levels.Two topics which have gained importance as a result ofadopting a transfer model are the formalization of the transfercomponent and the issue of reversibility of grammars (cf.Isabelle, 1988).
Reversibility of a grammatical descriptionensures that all necessary information has been accounted forin the representation for both parsing and generation and alsodefines what the output of ~ansfer f om one language to anothermust be.
If the representation from analysis is underspecified,in a reversible description this will become apparent asovergeneration.
For translation, the notion of reversibilityhelps to test whether the relation is symmetric, an attractiveworking hypothesis for a theory of translation.The transfer mechanism in earlier work, as in older systemssuch as the different versions of ARIANE (Boitet, 1988), asystem developed in Grenoble at one of the oldest Europeancenters for machine translation; METAL (White, 1985), theSiemens German-English system initially developed in theStates; 8 and the SUSY system (Maas, 1988), a systemdeveloped in the 1970s in Saarbruecken, was an arbitrary tree-to-tree transformation.
Compositionality and declarativityhave since become basic tenets as a means of overcoming thead hoc and procedural mechanisms those systems employed (cLLandsbergen, et al, 1989 on compesitionality in the Rosettasystem and des Tombe, et al, 1985 for a discussion of "relaxedcompositionality" in the Eurotra framework).
Current workconcentrates on constraining the transfer mechanism within awell defined computational model, e.g., transfer rules aredefined between feature structures and the mechanism is basedon unification (cL van Noord, et al, 1990, Russell et al, 1991and Wedekind, 1988).
Unification as the basis for MT systemsserves as a basis for quite a number of MT projects in Europe(in addition to the above mentioned el.
also Carlson &Vilkuna, 1990 and Zajac, 1989); its advantages are the wellunderstood formal aspects and the declarative nature of the ruleschema for a given implementation.As a conclusion to this section, let me mention a fewoutstanding topics that are under investigation i  the CLliterature but are noticeably absent in the MT literature inEurope.
The approach to translation as more of an AI problem(cL numerous papers by Nirenburg and Wilks) has not receivedmuch attention i  Europe.
This is perhaps due to the fact thatMT projects are more often found in (computational) linguisticdepartments than computer science and AI labs.
The generationwork in MT has mainly concerned itself with reversibilityissues and has hardly taken into account any of the work onplanning, discourse, etc.
I attribute this fact to the as yet ill-understood process of translation and, thus, the difficulty indefining a basis from which to generate.
MT is still strugglingwith word, phrase and sentence translation (at best) and hastherefore perhaps considered it premature to look at discourseproblems.
The one well-clef'reed problem, and in many ways themost concrete, is the lexicon.
Although lexical descriptionsimply everything else, there is a feeling that word descriptionsand their mapping to other languages can be improvedgradually.The system is now essentially worked on in Europe and is beingextended toother European languages including French, Spanishand Dutch.30PARTIALLY AUTOMATING THETRANSLATION PROCESSAs automation i creases and, with it, access to more andmore information, the demand for translation i creases.
Sincehigh-quality machine translation of unrestricted text is nosolution to this problem in any foreseeable future, there is agrowing trend to look for partial solutions.
One option is tobuild yet another complete MT system such as SYSTRAN,LOGOS, or METAL (the only three viable commercial systems)with full knowledge that the output will be comprehensible, atbest.
These systems are useful once the lexicon has beendeveloped and tuned for a given corpus; however, given thelong development time for building such a system, they will,by definition, be based on out-dated technology.
The othersolution is to concentrate on those parts of the translationprocess that can be automated.The topic of automating only some parts in view of using amachine to aid in the translation process has been around for along time (Kay, 1973), often under the name machine or humanassisted translation; however, concrete projects addressing aspecific aspect are, for the most part, relatively recent.
Themajor aspects currently identified within the space of what canbe usefully automated are when and where to use humaninteraction, identifying classes of restrictions on the inputlanguage (lexical, syntactic and semantic), separating the taskinto sub-tasks (monolingual vs. bilingual and further breakingthese down along traditional linguistic lines and according todocument preparation criteria).
9Identifying those aspects which can be automated andworking towards a solution has found interest not only from apractical point of view, but also as a theoretical exercise.Ambiguity, for example, is an important problem for anylanguage description task.
For translation work this problemis compounded in that it may arise not only during parsing, 10but also during translation and in generation.
In generation,the problem is well-known in the CL literature as the problemof natural language paraphrases arising from a given 'meaning'representation; i  the context of translation, a system thatproduces paraphrases is not very useful without somerefinement on how the paraphrases differ.
Though noformalization of this exists, there is general agreement thatparaphrases in a target language often represent differenttranslations w.r.t, a given source text.
Another problem forgeneration i MT and shared with the CL community is that oflexical choice ff the representation abstracts away from words,Seen from a practical viewpoint, he question of automating theprocess of translation must also take into account he actualworking conditions.
For example, many translation services workfrom printed sources rather than the electronic version.
And in thelarger centers, such as the EC translation services, much of thetranslation is done via dictaphone and typed by secretaries.
Inboth of these cases, there is no place for interaction unless theentire working pattern is first changed.10 In a recent demonstration I attended ofa commercial MT system, itbecame clear to me that one of the reasons why the output ofcurrent systems i so bad, is not that he correct parse couldn't befound among the numerous possible ones, nor that it couldn't betranslated, but rather that the system could only choose oneparse, and often this was the wrong one.representing them as concepts or a set of features.
Thisproblem will be apparent in the bilingual component in atransfer system and in generation i an interlingua system.One method of controlling the analysis is by limiting theinput; one very simple and successful example is the Titussystem which has basically a fixed number of templates whichdefine the syntax of the input (Ducrot, 1982).
This system,which is actually a database for the textile industry that permitsnatural language input and provides multilingual output, is alsorepresentative of another estriction common in most NLPapplications, namely, limiting the application domain.Limiting the semantic domain is common practice in the MTcommunity.
Eurotra~ for example, works on a limited corpus inthe domain of telecommunications a dthe project reported onin Alshawi, et al, 1991, is developing a lexicon for the earindustry.
At ISSCO, work is underway on a sublanguageconsisting of avalanche bulletins, somewhat similar to theexemplary TAUM-METEO system for weather reports.Another means of automating the translation stages, whilestill controlling the process, is by allowing for interactionduring the various phases (Johnson & Whitelock, 1985).Interaction may be limited to the monolingual componentwhere questions are only asked about the source text(Whitelock et al, 1986).
The interest in developing authoringsystems (i.e., systems where an individual writes a text in thesource language with a 'guarantee' that the translation will becorrect) is an attempt to assure that the analysis of the text isnot ambiguous and does have a translation (McGee Wood &Chandler, 1988).
Or the interaction may be included in thebilingual component, where the user is asked to choose thecorrect translation.The simplest example of the latter can be found in thebilingual dictionaries offered with some word processors, oftenreferred to as translator's workstations.
Such simple tools ason-line access to both monolingual nd bilingual dictionaries,editors that support multiple scrolling screens, or hyphenationand spelling checkers for more than one language are by nomeans a standard in normal office settings.
Development ofvery simple tools and a basic environment may provide a basisfor adding more sophisticated components incrementally.Work in MT proper vs. work on environments for translatorsare essentially carried out in two different eornmunities.
Onlythe commercial systems have up to present aken the lattertopic seriously; this situation is changing as more of thefunding for research moves to the private sector.CONCLUSIONIn presenting major themes in current MT work, a number ofprograms and activities have not received adequate attention.In particular the European activities planned as a follow-up tothe Eurotra project, especially since the major portion of ECfunding for MT has gone to this project which will end in 1992.For this phase, a number of sub-projects are currently underway, including the definition of a new formalism (that will becloser to standard unification systems) and tools for a bettercomputational linguistic research environment.
Plans orfollow-up work have recognized the need for more basicresearch in all topics known to the CL community, but withemphasis on considering solutions in terms of multilingualneeds.
The problems pecific to translation have essentiallybeen mentioned above.
Aside from the numerous lexical31projects (for which there will certainly be European andnational initiatives), we can add a number of corpus initiatives(two of which are already under way in England).
Education isalso mentioned as a topic in its own right.Some of the activities in purely academic enters have beenoverlooked, either because I didn't know about hem or becausethey have not had any impact on the community.
As toactivities in the private sector, it is simply more difficult toobtain information.
Many of the larger companies, such asPhilips, Siemens or IBM, have shown a long-standingcommitment to both research and development of MT.
IBM,for example, has sponsored a number of workshops in the pastyears, inviting representatives from all of the well knowncenters in the world (of.
Lippman, 1986).
Smaller workshopson topics such as unification and translation (ISSCO, 1989)have taken place all over Europe on an ad hoc basis.One last outstanding topic to be mentioned in the context ofMT is that of evaluation.
Its absence in this review is due to itsgeneral absence as a recognized theme and its lack of directionin the field (Falkedal, 1990).
Though numerous individualefforts have been undertaken (King & Falkedal, 1990), theresults of this work often remain private.
11Simlar to developments in NLP, the topic has gainedimportance in the last few years and recently, a working groupwas formed headed by M. King and G. Magnusdottir.
One othercenter active in this area is the University of Stuttgart (U.Heid).
A first forum on Evaluation and MT will be held inSwitzerland in April, including participants from the academicand private sectors.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI would like to thank Louis des Tombe for helpful discussionin preparing this survey.REFERENCESALPAC (1966) Report of the Automatic Language ProcessingAdvisory Committee, division of Behavioral Science,National Academy of Sciences, National Research CouncilPublication 1416, Washington, D.C.Alshawi, H., H. Boloch, D. Carter, R. Hunze, B. Gambaeck,P.Peng, M. Rayner, S. Sachachtl, L. Schmid (1991)Multilingual Communication Using Quasi Logical Forms.ms.Appelo, L., C. Fellinger & J. Landsbergen (1989)Subgrammars, Rule Classes and Control in the RosettaTranslation System.
Proceedings of the EACL,Copenhagen, 1987.Bech, A.
& A. Nygaard (1988) The E-framework: A formalismfor natural anguage processing.
Coling '88, Budapest, pp.36-39.D.
Arnold, L. Jaspaert, L. des Tombe (1985) Eurotra LinguisticSpecifications.
ELS-3, internal Eurotra report, Luxembourg.11 One exception to this is a report hat may be obtained from theCanadian Government on evaluation, Bourbeau (1990).Boitet, C. & R. Gerber (1984) Expert systems and other newtechniques.
Coling '84, Stanford.Boitet, C. (1987) Research and development on MT and relatedtechniques at Grenoble University (GETA).
In: M.
King(ed.)
Machine Translation Today: The State of the Art,Edinburgh University Press, Edinburgh, pp.133-153.Bourbeau, L. (1990) Ealaboration et raise au point d'unemithodologie d'evaluation linguistique de systhmes det~aduetion assistie par ordinateur.
Sec.
of the CanadianGovernment, Quibec.Brown, P., J. Cocke, S. Della Pietra, V. Della Pietra, F. Jelinek,R.
Mercer, & P. Roossin (1988) A statistical approach tolanguage translation.
Coling '88, Budapest, pp.71-76.Busemann, S. & C. Hauenschild (1988) A constructive view ofGPSG or how to make it work.
Coling, Budapest, pp.
77-82.Ducrot, J.-M. (1982) TITUS IV System: systhrae de traduetionautomatique etsimultanie n quatre langues.
In: P. L Taylor& b. Cronin (eds.)
Information Management Research inEurope: Proceedings of the EURIM 5 Conference,Versailles, Aslib, London.Eurotra-Lexic (1989) The development of Spanish-Dutchdictionaries for machine translation purposes: ProjectDefinition.
Stichting Taaltechnologie, Van DaleLexicografie, Phillips Research, Vakgroep RomaanseTalen, Utrecht.ET-7(1990) EUROTRA-7: Feasibility and Project DefinitionStudy on the Reusability of Lexical and TerminologicalResources in Computer ised Applications--ProjectOverview, Commission of the European Communities,Luxembourg.Falkedal, K. (1990) Evaluation Methods for MachineTranslation Systems--And Isabelle, P. (1988) ReversibleLogic Grammars for Machine Translation.
The 2ndInternational Conference on Theoretical andMethodological Issues in Machine Translation of NaturalLanguages, Pittsburgh.Johnson, R. & P. Whitelock (1985) Machine Translation as anExpert Task.
The 1st International Conference onTheoretical and Methodological Issues in MachineTranslation of Natural Languages, Hamilton, pp.
145-153.Kay, M. (1973) The MIND System.
In: R. Rustin (ed.)
NaturalLanguage Processing, Algorithmics Press, New York,pp.155-188.Kay, M. (1980) On the Proper Place of Men and Machines inLanguage Translation.
Xerox PARC report CSL-80-11, PaleAlto.Kay, M. (1984) Functional Unification Grammar: A Formalismfor Machine Translation.
Coling '87, Stanford.King, M, & K. Falkedal (1990) Using Test Suites in Evaluation.Coling '90, pp.
211-216.32Landsbergen, J.
(1987) Montague grammar and machinetranslation.
In: P. Whiteloek, M. McGee Wood, H. somers,R.
Johnson and P. Bennett (eds.)
Linguistic Theory andComputer Applications, Aeadernic Press, London.Landsbergen, J.
(1989) The Rosetta Project.
In: Proceedings ofthe Machine Translation Summit II, Munich.Lippmann, E.O.
(1986) ELS Conference TranslationMechanization.
IBM Research Report European LanguageServices in cooperation with the University ofCopenhagen, Copenhagen.Maas, D. (1988) The Machine Translation SUSY system.
In: In:M. King (ed.)
Machine Translation Today: the State of theArt, Edinburgh University Press, Edinburgh, pp.209-246.McGee Wood, M. & B. Chandler (1988), Machine Translationfor Monolinguals.
Coling '88, pp.
760-763.McNaught, J.
(1990) Reusability of Lexical and TerminologicalResources: Steps towards Independence.
Proceedings of theInternational Workshop on Electronic Dictionaries, Oiso.van Noord, G., J. Dorrepaal, P. van der Eijk, M. Florenza, & L.des Tombe (1990) The MiMo2 Research System.
The 3rdInternational Conference on Theoretical andMethodological Issues in Machine Translation of NaturalLanguages, Austin.van Noord, G. (1989) Bottom-Up Generation in UnificationBased Formalisms.
Proceedings of the 2nd EuropeanWorkshop on Natural Language Generation, Edinburgh, pp.53-59.Picchi, E. & N. Calzolari (1986) Textual perspectives throughan automatized lexicon.
Proceedings of the XII ALLCConference, Slat.kine: Geneva, 1986.Bar-Hillel, Y.
(1964) Four Lectures on Algebraic Linguisticsand Machine Translation.
In: Y. Bar-Hillel (ed)Language andInformation,Sadler, V. & R. Vendelrnans (1990) Pilot Implementation f aBilingual Knowledge Bank.
Coling '90, Helsinki, pp.
449-451.Sadler, L., I. Crookston, & D. Arnold (1990) LFG andTranslation.
The 3rd International Conference onTheoretical and Methodological Issues in MachineTranslation of Natural Languages, Austin.Kaplan, R., K. Netter, J. Wedekind & A. Zaenen (1989)Translation by structural correspondences.
EACL '89,Manchester, pp.272-281.Russell, G., A. Ballim, D. Estival, S. Warwick (1991) ALanguage for the Statement of Binary Relations over FeatureStructures.
EACL '91, Berlin.Rupp, C.J.
(1989) Situation semantics and machinetranslation.
EACL '89, Manchester, pp.
308-318. xs desTombe, L., D.Arnold, L. Jaspaert, R. Johnson, S. Kranwer,M.
Rosner, N. Varile, S. Warwick (1985) A PreliminaryLinguistic Framework for EUROTRA.
The 1st InternationalConference on Theoretical and Methodological Issues inMachine Translation of Natural Languages, Hamilton,pp.283-288.Warwick, S. (1987) Automated Lexical Resources in Europe: asurvey.
Paper prepared for the workshop Automating theLexicon: Research and Practice in a MultilingualEnvironment, Grosseto.Wedekind, J.
(1988) Generation as Structure-driven Generation.Coling '88, pp.
732-737.White, J.
(1985) Characteristics of the METAL MachineTranslation System at Production Stage.
The 1stInternational Conference on Theoretical andMethodological Issues in Machine Translation of NaturalLanguages, Hamilton, pp.
359-369.Whitelock, P., M. McGee Wood, R. J. Chandler, N. Holden,H.J.
HorsfaU (1986) Strategies for Interactive MachineTranslation: the experience and irnplieations of the UMISTJapanese project, Coling '86, pp.325-329.Wilks, Y.
(1973) An Artificial Intelligence Approach toMachine Translation.
In: R. Schank & K.M.
Colby (eds.
)Computer Models of Thought and Language, San Francisco.Witkam, T. (1988) DLT--An Industrial R & D Project forMultilingual Machine Translation.
Coling '88, Budapest,pp.756-759.Zajac, R. (1989) A Transfer Model Using a Typed FeatureStructure Rewriting System with Inheritance.
Coling '89,Vancouver.33
