The PLUS AcceleratorRoberto Bisiani, Principal InvestigatorSchool of Computer Scienc eCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213Our plan is to demonstrate a workstation accelerator(called PLUS) that not only executes the current speechrecognition systems in real time, but that will also supportthe increasing computational demands of speech recog-nition systems for the next few years.
The accelerator willalso be useful for other compute bound applications.
Theaccelerator will be replicated and made available to othersites.Our approach is to connect single-processor machines ofroughly the performance of high-end workstations bymeans of a very fast and powerful communicationmechanism.
This makes the memory on each node visibleto every other node as if the system were a single shared-memory multiprocessor.
The prototype, for example, uses25MHz Motorola 88000 processors with up to 32 Mbytesof DRAM memory and 512 Kbytes of SRAM in eachnode; the interconnection is based on a MOSIS-built meshrouter with 40Mbytes/sec bandwidth.PLUS's research contribution comprises newmechanisms to support shared-memory and synchroniza-tion between processors.
The emphasis is on low latencyand low overhead synchronization.The PLUS prototype is interfaced to host computer sys-tems by means of a SCSI interface, this interface can alsoperform speech input/output and limited signal processing.Interfacing PLUS to a host does not require any operatingsystem change on the host.As of December 1990, 40 PLUS nodes have been fabri-cated and are awaiting testing.
A three node PLUS systemhas been assembled and debugged and is currently runningthe Sphinx system in batch mode.
The software nviron-ment now includes MACH C-threads which provides Clanguage support for multiprocessor p ogramming.
This isthe same multiprocessor p ogramming environment that isused in the standard MACH operating system.
Thereforedevelopers can create applications on their MACHworkstations that are easily portable to a PLUS system.Our future plans include the construction of 8 and 16node PLUS systems to support he development of verylarge vocabulary speech recognition.
We are also develop-ing a parallel implementation f Viterbi beam search totake full advantage of the PLUS architecture.412
