SESSION 1: SPEECH AND NATURAL LANGUAGEEFFORTS IN THE U. S. AND ABROADMark Y. Liberman, University of PennsylvaniaPatti Price, SRI InternationalWe see two purposes for this first session: increased communi-cations among research communities in some danger of driftingapart, and a comparison of alternative goals and organizationalstructures for such communities.
Obviously, a single hour-longsession is no more than a symbolic gesture in this direction, evenff the time had not been truncated further by schedule overrunspressing against an inflexible dinner hour, but we feel that thesymbol was nevertheless a worthwhile and important one.Recently, programs of research in speech and natural languagehave been increasing in number and size all around the world.
Atthe same time, workshops like those sponsored by DARPA havebecome increasingly important, as research communities developaround the thrust of each funding agency's program.
Inevitably,increasing cohesion within these communities raises the possibil-ity of fragmentation among them, especially since the sheer num-ber and complexity of new efforts make it hard to stay informedabout everything.We have the impression that many researchers in the DARPAcommunity have an increasing number of blank spots for over-seas research projects, even for major efforts like ESPRIT SUN-DIAL, or EDRI in Japan, or the German ASL project.
So far,there does not seem to be much divergence in the underlyingtechnologies, except that the communications channel for techni-cal details is narrower and slower across the oceans than it iswithin each of the three major communities.
However, there is anincreasing divergence in goals.For instance, the European efforts ee spoken dialogue systemsas involving natural language generation and speech synthesis, aswell as speech recognition and natural language understanding,while the DARPA community has generally seen the problem as"speech in, something else out;" thus there is tittle Americaneffort on generation, and less on speech synthesis.
Anotherexample is a lively European interest, mentioned by several ofthe panelists in this session, in "multimodal dialogue; systems," afascinating concept whose future seems likely to be more con-cretely elaborated than its present.
An important difference infocus is that all the European efforts are multilingual in essenceand by necessity, while most American work is on English only.In addition, the European, Japanese and American communi-ties have developed different styles and approaches in organizinglarge research projects, at least in the speech and natural an-guage area.
For instance, the Europeans have emphasized coop-eration among laboratories in developing common modules thatfit together into a single overall system, in contrast to the mainDARPA pattern of encouraging researchers toengage in a quan-titatively-scored competition on a well-defined common task.The European projects also tend to stress university-industrycooperation i projects aimed at particular commercial pplica-tions, rather than pushing competitive technology developmentas motivated by military goals, with possible civilian commer-cialization left to market forces.Overall, these divergences seem quite healthy.
It would be abad thing if all researchers around the world were working onexactly the same problems in exactly the same way for exactlythe same reasons.
However, it is possible for these differences ingoals and modes of organization tocreate organizational and cul-tural barriers that make the transfer of ideas increasingly slowerand more difficult across community boundaries.
It is fikely thata freer trade in ideas leads to faster technical advances and toultimate benefits for everyone.
We appreciate he participation four European colleagues in this workshop, and we stronglyencourage continued invitations to prominent European and Jap-anese researchers.The panefists included: Louis Boves, Nijmegen University,Netherlands; Rolf Carlson, Royal Institute of Technology, Stock-holm, Sweden; Jeremy Peckham, Logica Cambridge LTD, Cam-bridge, England; Keith Ponting, Royal Signals & RadarEstablishment, Malvern, England; Christel Sorin, CNET, Lan-nion, France; Wolfgang Wahlster, German Research Center forAI, Saarbruecken, Germany; and Susan Warwick-Armstrong,University of Geneva, Switzerland.
Unfortunately, Sadaoki Furuiof NTr in Japan was unable to attend ue to travel restrictions,and we were unable to benefit from an overview of the vastamount of speech and natural anguage research and develop-merit being undertaken i  Japan.
Due to time constraints, theplanned iscussion period did not occur; we apologize to the pan-elists.
We greatly appreciate he participation i  this workshop ofall our foreign guests, and thank them for their participation imany informal discussions, which, though not documented inthis proceedings, form an important component of the workshop.Peckham described similarities and differences between theESPRIT program and the DARPA program, concentrating ontheSundial project, of which he is the project director.
He stressedseveral of the general points made above, while observing thatthe underlying technologies remain very close indeed.
His paperin this volume provides an overview of the SUNDIAL project,which includes an interactive flight reservation application inFrench and in English.
This application has notable similaritiesto ATIS, while providing acomplementary approach (more focuson dialogue, on the interactive system, and on expert, as opposedto naive, users).Wolfgang Wahlster, of the DFKI in Saarbruecken, discussedspeech and natural language research in Germany.
All Europeancountries have their own locally-funded research programs, inaddition to EEC-wide efforts uch as ESPRIT, but Germany has aparticularly large amount of such work.
For instance, the GermanMinistry for Research and Technology is putting 15 million DMper year into "Verbmobil", aproject o develop speech-to-speechtranslation in the context of multimodal interaction.
This is onlyone of several specific projects or basic research programs ofthree to six years each, which cover a range of topics including:syntax and semantics, multi-modal access to expert systems, bi-directional NL models (generation and understanding), modelsof uncooperative dialogue, prosody, and the integration of speechrecognition and natural language understanding.Susan Warwick-Armstrong, of ISSCO at the University ofGeneva, discussed European efforts in machine translation, andespecially the various Eurotra projects.
She stressed the eco-nomic, cultural and political centrality in Europe of multi-lingualprojects in general, and of translation i  particular, and the levelof on-going commitment tomaking progress in this area.
Appli-cations of the research, in addition to machine translation,include multilingual abstracting and indexing, document genera-tion, computer aided instruction and training.
A correspondingpaper is included in tMs volume.Finally, Christel Sorin, of CNET in Lannion, described speechresearch in France.
She stressed the French interest in high-qual-ity text-to-speech synthesis as an important component ofspeechtechnology, and also their interest in multimodal dialogue sys-tems.
She also pointed out that some years ago French research-ers collaborated to produce a rather large speech database forresearch, but that little use has been made of it yet, compared tothe crucial role of speech databases in common task definition forthe DARPA community.
She stressed that this is an area wherethey intend to follow the American example in the future,observing that hey had been ahead in forming the idea of gather-ing such data, but behind in making efficient use of the data oncegathered.In addition to the communications mentioned above, this volumecontains additional related papers: a summary of the ESPRITproject Polyglot, by Louis Boves; an overview of research anddevelopment a KTH in Stockholm, by Rolf Carlson; and a generaloverview of ESPRIT.As outlined in the paper by Boves, the ESPRIT project POLY-GLOT aims to develop multi-lingual speech-to-text and text-to-speech in a number of prototype applications, including dictation,office automation and teaching aids.
The project includes compo-nents focussed on (1) speaker-adaptive solated word recognitionfor very large vocabularies, (2) continuous speech recognition formid-sized vocabularies (1000-5000 words), and (3) text-to-speechconversionThe paper by Roll Carlson describes the research and develop-ment effort at the Department ofSpeech Communication a d MusicAcoustics of the Royal Institute of Technology, focussing on thespeech effort.
These activities include the study of individualspeaker characteristics, peaking styles, text-to-speech synthesis,knowledge-based recognition for large vocabularies, voice sourcecharacteristics (including modeling of speech production for recog-nition), and artificial neural networks for speech recognition.
Appli-cations efforts have been aimed at air traffic control, the processindustry, devices for the disabled, and mobile telephony.With the help of Patrick Van Hove, of the ESPRIT program, wehave compiled a complete list of the various ESPRIT projects,including contact points for each.
Surveying the list should make itclear that there is a good deal of activity in Europe that is very sim-ilar in aims and in methods to the DARPA program.
It is also clearthat there are differences in focus, most notably a stronger focus onmulti-lingual work in Europe compared to the US.
We hope thiscompilation will serve as a reference for US researchers and as ameans for initiating future trans-Atiantic communication.
We hopethat European and Japanese researchers will continue to be invitedto these workshops, and that more American researchers will beinvited to comparable gatherings overseas.
