TACITUS:The Abductive Commonsense Inference-basedText Understanding SystemJerry R. FIobbsSR;I International333 Ravenswood Ave.Menlo Park, CA 94025TACITUS is a natural anguage processing systemthat is intended to be general and domain-independent.It performs a syntactic analysis of the sentences inthe text, producing a logical form.
Next, inferentialpragmatics processing is applied to the logical form tosolve problems of schema recognition, reference reso-lution, metonymy resolution, and the interpretation ofvague predicates.
An analysis component then producesthe desired output for the application.
TACITUS hasbeen applied to several quite different domains, includ-ing naval equipment failure reports, naval operations re-ports, and terrorist reports.Given a text to be analyzed, TACITUS first calls apreprocessor to do spelling correction and to translatedomain-peculiar expressions oftimes, ranges, tables, andso on, into a canonical form.
For the terrorist reports,we have also implemented a keyword-based statisticalfilter to select the relevant Sentences in the text.
Thiseliminates 75% of the sentences from deeper analysis,but only eliminates about 10% of the relevant sentences.The syntactic omponent is the DIALOGIC system,developed originally for the TEAM transportable, nat-uraI language interface to databases.
The parser isbottom-up and produces all the parses at once, togetherwith their logical forms.
Its grammar is among thelargest computer grammars of English in existence, giv-ing nearly complete coverage of such phenomena assen-tential complements, relative clauses, adverbials, sen-tence fragments, and the most common varieties of con-junction.
Selectional constraints are applied, and thereare a large number of heuristics for selecting the pre-ferred parses of ambiguous sentences.
The logical formproduced is an "ontologically promiscuous" version offirst-order predicate calculus, in which relations of gram-matical subordination are represented.
Optionally andwhere possible, the logical forms for different parses aremerged into a neutral representation.
Experiments arenow being conducted to determine ways to speed up theparsing process, using probabilistic and other criteria forscheduling the parser.
We are also experimenting withways of extracting information from failed parses.Pragmatics processing isbased on abductive inference,implemented in the Prolog Technology Theorem Prover(PTTP), using a knowledge base encoding commonsenseand domain-specific knowledge in the form of predicate-426calculus axioms.
The fundamental idea is that the in-terpretation ofa sentence is the minimal proof from theknowledge base of the logical form of the sentence to-gether with the constraints predicates impose on theirarguments, allowing for coercions, where one merges re-dundancies where possible and makes assumptions wherenecessary.
This formulation leads to an elegant, unifiedsolution to the problems of schema recognition, referenceresolution, metonymy resolution, and the interpretationof vague predicates.
The output of this component isan elaborated logical form with the relevant inferencesdrawn and the identities of entities explicitly encoded.Finally, an analysis component takes the interpreta-tion produced by the pragmatics component and gen-erates the required output.
For the equipment failurereports, this is a diagnosis of the problem described.
Forthe naval operations reports and the terrorist reports,this is entries for a database.
With very little effort,analysis components could be constructed for a numberof other applications, uch as message routing and mes-sage prioritizing.A number of convenient knowledge-acquisition facili-ties have been implemented for TACITUS.
These includea menu-based lexical acquisition component, a sort hier-archy editor, and a component allowing entry of axiomsin a subset of English.The people working on this project include DouglasAppelt, John Bear, Jerry ttobbs, David Magerman,Mark Stickel, and Mabry Tyson.References\[1\] Hobbs, Jerry R., Mark Stickel, Douglas Appelt, andPaul Martin, 1988.
"Interpretation as Abduction",SRI Technical Note 499, SP,.I International, MenloPark, California.
December 1990.
