Using Spoken Language to Facilitate Military Transportation PlanningMadeleine Bates, Dan Ellard, Pat Peterson, Varda ShakedBBN Systems and Techno log ies10 Mou l ton  Street.Cambridge, MA 02138ABSTRACTThe DARPA SLS Program is developing a technology that has beenjustified, at least in part, by its potential relevance to military applications.In an effort o demonstrate the relevance of SIS technology to real-worldmilitary applications, BBN has undertaken the task of providing aspokenlanguage interface to DART, a system for military logistical transportationplanning.We discuss the transportation planning process, describe the real-worldDART system, identify parts of the system where spoken language canfacilitate planning, and describe BBN's work towards porting the HARCSIS system to the DART domain.TRANSPORTATION PLANNINGLogistical transportation planning is the process of determininghow to get people and cargo from where they are to where theyneed to be.
Inter-theatre movements of personnel and suppliesaround the world are currently planned for the Army, Navy, AirForce, and other services by USTRANSCOM (the USTRANSportation COMmand) which operates under the JointChiefs of Staff.
The transportation plarming process is quitecomplex, involving very large databases of movementrequirements, and information about personnel, cargo,transportation assets, and geographic locations.
Currently, thehuman interface to military planning systems is relativelyenmbersome and unintelligent, which adds extra complexity tothe planner's task.As a domain for the application of spoken language, militarytransportation planning has a number of advantages:1.
Transportation planning is an essential military function andsuccessful application of spoken language would be bothuseful to TRANSCOM and visible to other potential militaryusers of SLS technology.2.
The concept of planning movements ofpeople and suppliescan be understood by a wide audience.3.
The application isnon-trivial and, in the DART context thatwe will describe, affords opportunities for applying spokenlanguage understanding at many levels of sophistication.4.
Current efforts to improve the planning process using non-speech technology have been weU-received, and cooperativeusers may be available as close as Scott Air Force Base nearSt.
Louis.5.
An unclassified development database is available in Oracleon a Son.THE DART SYSTEMBBN is currently involved in an effort to improve thetransportation process using non-speech teclmology.
The DART(Dynamic Analysis and Replanning Tool) project 1 , isdemonstrating the operational impact of AI planning andscheduling technology on transportation planning atUSTRANSCOM.
DART addresses an urgent need for fast andaccurate plan generation and evaluation to support both long-range, hypothetical planning and planning in such crisis-responseoperations as those in the Middle East.The current DART system \[1\] is in use at Scott Air Force Baseand other locations around the globe.
The workstationenvironment which has been installed at TRANSCOM to supportDART is already being used and has been credited with reducingroutine plan analysis from 3 days to I day \[2\].The architecture of the DART system is shown in figure 1.
Theheart of the system is a relational database.
The database isinitialized with data from two sources, adatabase of transportationcharacteristics, and a Time Phased Force Deployment Database(rPFDD).
TPFDDs are usually prepared in advance to deal withhypothetical military operations.
In a crisis situation, the planner'stask is usually to retrieve an applicable TPFDD, and to change itto fit that new situation.
The output of the process is a modifiedTPFDD which can be used in subsequent planning and operationalactivities.A typical TPFDD may contain hundreds of fields and hundredsof megabytes of data, but its focal point will always be a table ofmovement requirements with perhaps thousands of recordsdescribing the movement of all the units necessary to execute aplan.
The planned movement of a unit, which may be as small asa single person or larger than a battalion, consists of threesegments.
In the first segment, a unit moves from its origin to aPort of Embarkation, or P.O.E.
In the second segment,transportation is provided from the POE to a Port of Debarkation,or P.O.D.
In the third segment, a unit moves from the POD to itsf'mal destination.
The FOEs and PODs may be airports, sea ports,Air Force bases, or other kinds of locations.
The transportationfrom POE to POD may be by land, sea, or air.
This transportationsegment isusually of most interest to TRANSCOM planners.1 DART is sponsored by DARPA and Rome Laboratory andinvolves BBN, Ascent Technologies, ISX Corporation, MITRECorporation, and SRA Corporation.217TransportDataTPFDD ModifiedTPFDDRequirements& Assets JRelationalDataBaseResultsRAPIDSIMFigure 1: Architecture of DART.
Shaded modules are candidatesDART makes a number of tools available to the planner.
Theseinclude a TPFDD editor for viewing units and making changes intheir characteristics and transportation plans, a notional portseditor which allows ports to be combined for purposes of planningand simulation, a transportation assets editor which lets theplanner modify the availability and characteristics of varioustransportation assets, the RAPIDSIM simulation system which can"run the current plan", and an analysis capability that enables theplanner to examine the output of a RAPIDSIM run to determinewhether or not the objectives were achievedDART allows a planner to extract pieces of pre-plannedmovement records from a database by specifying simpleconstraints on up to five items: the units to be moved (a unitgenerally contains both personnel and cargo), the place of originof the units, their port of embarkation, their port of debarkation,and their final destination.The retrieved ata is displayed in a spreadsheet-like window,horizontal bars showing the number of days each step of thetransport isexpected to take, with the color indicating whether thestep is by land, sea, etc.
An example of this window, and otherparts of the normal DART display, is given in figure 2.The TPFDD DatabaseThe database that underlies the entire planning process is calledthe TPFDD (Time Phased Force Deployment Database) \[3\].
TheTPFDD development database that is unclassified and available inOracle has 50-100 MB of data, in 13 tables and about 500 fields.This data represents approximately 20,000 cargo movementfor spoken language interfaces.records, 9,000 unit movement records, and a smaller number ofpersonnel movement records.
Each movement record contains,among other information:- location of origin- POE (port of embarkation)- intermediate locations, if any- transportation mode (land, sea, air)- transportation provider- POD (port of debarkation/discharge)- location of destination- RLD (ready to load date) at origin- ALD (available to load date) at POE- EAD (earliest arrival date') at POD- LAD (latest arrival date) at POD- RDD (required elivery date) at destinationDART PLUS SLSNatural language access (both spoken and typed) increases theutility of the DART interface by providing capabilities that are notavailable in the non-language interface, and it can decrease thetask completion time for operations that can be expressed moreconcisely in words than in mouse actions.We have identified six areas of the DART system where naturallanguage will provide increased functionality for this militarysystem:1. the TPFDD editor, which allows users to create and modifyentries in the Timed Phased Force Deployment Databases218U-AC8BDU-ACBBBU-ACBBAU-AC7BU-AC7APU-AC7ACU-AC6GUU-ACBBDU-ACE88U-AC8BAU-AC7BU-AC7APU-AC7ACU-ACGGUthat specify movement requirements for the personnel andmateriel involved in planned military operations,2.
the transportation assets editor, which is used to view andchange the number and type of transportation assets (ships,planes, etc.)
and the days when they are available,3.
the notional ports editor, which is used to combine actualports (sea ports, air ports, or other geographical lecations)into single "notional" ports to simplify subsequentsimulations of planned movements,4.
the analysis of results from the RAPIDSIM simulation of thecurrent plan's exe ution,5.
universal (that is, available throughout the whole DARTsystem) access to information i  the TPFDD database thatunderlies the planning system,6.
menu navigation through the DART system, so that a user canuse a single verbal command instead of a lengthy sequence ofmouse (and possibly keyboard) operations.Each of these opportunities for adding spoken language to theDART interface has separate pros and cons.
They vary inexpected vocabulary size, likely language complexity, ease ofinterface to DART, and utility for the user.For example, in the notional ports editor, the user is likely towant to give short commands to the system ("Show me Travis AirForce Base", "Zoom in around Charleston", What's this port?
","Show the nearest military airport", "Compute the notional pertassignments").
The planner is also likely to refer only to thegeographical locations that are displayed on the current map,which reduces the vocabulary (and the perplexity) considerably.Universal database query, on the other hand, will involvecomplex language ("What percentage of the Navy units headed forair force bases in Tunisia that are available to load from US portsprior to day 20 contain hazardous cargo?").
This part of theapplication will also require a very large vocabulary, sincevirtually any geographic location or other word from the databasecan be used in a query.
We estimate that even for just a gooddemonstration, the vocabulary will need to be about 5000 words.For our initial demonstration, however, we chose to illustrate adatabase query system because such a system would be veryuseful and also because its simple interface to DART allowed usto minimize interference with DART development.NL understanding.
We have implemented a mechanism to allowunits that are retrieved via natural language queries to be importedinto the DART plan display.Future WorkFuture developments will include extending the configurationand vocabulary to cover a larger segment of the database, and toallow voice commands to be executed in the DART system.REFERENCES1.
Grider, T., Mosley, H., Snow, L, and Wilson, W., "Users Manual for theDynamic Analytical Replanning Tool (DRAFT)", prepared for BBN bySystems Research and Applications Corporation, 9 November 1990.2.
Edward Walker, personal communication.3.
"Joint Operation Planning System (JOPS) Time Phased ForceDeployment Data (TPFDD) and Related Files, Database Specification",System Planning Manual, SPM D5 143-87, Joint Data Systems SupportCenter, 1 April 1987.Current StatusThe videotape presentation describes the task of TRANSCOMplanners, shows examples of the current interactions that arepossible with DART plus SLS, and shows examples of naturallanguage interactions that will facilitate the planners' work.As of the time of this workshop, we have transferred from thesmall in-core planning database that we developed fordemonstrating HARC to using the real TRANSCOM developmentdatabase inOracle.
We have developed an initial DART interfacethat uses windows to indicate activities in speech processing and220
