SESSION 12: SLS AND PROSODYEdward P. NeuburgIDACenter  for Communicat ions  ResearchThanet  RoadPrinceton, N.J .
08540This last session of the Meeting was really two sub-sessionson two quite different opics.
The session opened with twothought-provoking papers from M1T on what might be called aphilosophy of building a spoken language system.The first paper, by Seneff, Hirschman and Zue, concerned theATIS domain.
The authors tate what seems, after it is pointedout, an obvious truth, but which too few system builders seemto understand: when attempting a project like ATIS, the time toworry about the kinds of interaction that will take place in adialogue is at the very beginning of the project.
The MIT ATISsystem has not yet been fully designed, but the paper discusses,and gives some examples of, the kinds information exchange itis going to have to handle.The second paper, by Hirsehman, Seneff, Goodine andPhillips, was of the same flavor, but in a more practical vein.
Itdescribes ome actual Natural Language improvements o theM1T Voyager system, having to do with merging of acousticand grarnmatieal evidence during the tree-search part of therecognition algorithm.
Some simple (new) ideas have alreadyprovided a 33% improvement in recognition score.In the discussion period, it was clear that questioners had noquarrel with the aims expressed by the talkers; all questions hadto do with the architecture, the actual implementation, of thealgorithms discussed in the papers.The final three papers were on prosody.
Suggestions thatprosody might be used in automatic speech understanding goback at least to the ARPA SUR project of the early 1970s;however no recognition system has actually ever used prosody.In the early days, when compute-time was a primary issue, thenotion was that prosodic information could be used to ordercompeting theories, and thus speed the search.
Today, withcomputational resources faster and cheaper, the emphasis is onuse of prosody for disambiguation.The papers in this sub-session reported work that is veryearly in the process of folding prosody into the recognitionprocess; in fact, all three might be described as feasibilitytests.
None reported work in which prosodic information isautomatically extracted from an unknown incoming utterance.The first paper, by Price, Ostendorf, Shattuck-Hufnagel andFong, and the second by Wang and Hirschberg, are somewhat inthe nature of thought experiments.
Price et al are interested inwhether or not prosody actually can be used to disambiguate;they show that human listeners can indeed use it to someextent.
Wang and Hirschberg show that in the ATIS domain,which is syntactically simple, it is possible to predict fairlywell, given the text of a sentence, where intonation boundarieswill occur.The third paper, by Wightman, Veilleux and Ostendorf,describes what comes closest o a practical experiment.
Here,given incoming sentences where the words are known inadvance, their algorithm measures certain phoneme durations,and uses them in a simple disambiguation task, with veryencouraging results.Questions focused on three topics.
The first was thestatistical gathering of prosodic evidence.
There was generalagreement that there is not now any set of statistics on prosodyfrom a large corpus.
Further, since prosodic units are muchlonger than phonemes, for example, it wiU take a lot of text toget reliable estimates.
It was thought hat some of the corporanow being collected will be large enough.
It is perhaps ofinterest that there was no discussion of just what measurementswe need to ffmd the distribution of.There was a question about whether 90% accuracy in prosody(reported in one of the papers) was good or bad.
The fact thatthe question was asked, and that in the discussion there was nosolid opinion on either side, is very revealing of our state ofknowledge of prosody and its usefulness in automaticunderstanding of speech.The third topic was the general usefulness of prosody.Opinions expressed were that prosody is not just good forspeeding up search; that when prosody can be successfuUyextracted from speech it will be a useful addition to theprobabilistic recognition framework; and that in fact there aremany situations in which prosody will be the only way to get atthe true meaning of a spoken sentence.353
