Linguistic Knowledge Sources forSpoken Language UnderstandingDeborah A. DahlUnisys Center for Advanced Information TechnologyPaoli, Pennsylvania 19301PROJECT GOALSThe objective of the Unisys Spoken Language Systems effortis to develop and demonstrate t chnology for the understand-ing of goal-directed spontaneous speech.
The Unisys spokenlanguage architecture couples peech recognition systems withthe Unisys discourse understanding system, PUNDIT.
PUNDITis a broad-coverage language understanding system used in avariety of message understanding applications and has beenextended to handle spoken input.
Its power comes from theintegration of syntax, semantics, and pragmatics processing,the ability to port rapidly to new task donudns, and from anopen, modula,r a~chitecture.
PUNDIT is unique in its ability tohandle connected iscourse; it includes a reference resolutionmodule that tracks discom~se entities and distinguishes refer-ences to previously mentioned entities from the introductionof new entities.
The PUNDIT front-end supports tunt-takingdialogue and permits the system to include both questions andanswers in hnilding an integrated iscourse context, requiredfor the handling of interactive communication.
PUNDIT hasbeen interfaced to several speech recognition systems (MITSUMMIT and ITT  VRS-1280)  to perform applications indixection-finding assistance, al l  travel planning and air trafficcontrol.RECENT RESULTSWe have begun to explore a new approach to com-paring speech recognition systems and for investigatingspeech/language interactions in spoken language systems.This approach involves coupling a single natural anguage sys-tem to multiple speech recognition systems.
At this point wehave worked with output f~om MIT, BBN and Lincoln Labs,and are about to start working with output from Dragon.
Webelieve this will be extremely useful for giving us a handle onthe tradeoffs between recognizer improvements and improve-ments in spoken language understanding.We have also recently made improvements in semantic pro-cessing which allow semantics to handle, in a rule-governedway, a variety of syntactic constructions which exhibit non-transparent a~gument structure.
These improvements led toan improvement of oux benclunark ATIS score to 48.3~ fxom36%.Our pragmatics processing has been enhanced to introduceinformation presented in displays into the dialog and to sup-port subsequent references by the user to items in the display.We have also developed a new approach to training thesemantic omponent of the system using hand-generated rulesdeveloped for 900 sentences of the AT IS  corpus to providea basis for hypothesising the argument structure of unknownverbs.In collaboration with the University of Pennsylvania, wehave recently implemented a probabilistic hart parser withan unknown word model and have partial ly integrated it intothe system.
This parser differs from previous attempts atstochastic parsers in that it uses a richer form of conditionalprobabilities based on context o predict likelihood.PLANSDuring the year to come we plan to:s Evaluate speech/language integration with multiplespeech recogniserss Use Lincoln Labs stack decoder to provide tightspeech/language coupling?
Begin development of a new performance task - informa-tion retrieval interface?
Extend trainable semantics?
Improve dialogue processing for full dialogues427
