THE USE OF PROSODY IN SYNTACTICDISAMBIGUATIONPatti Price (SRI), Mari Ostendorf (BU), Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel (MIT), Cynthia Fong (BU)SRI International, Menlo Park, CA 94025Boston University, Boston, MA 02215MIT, Cambridge, MA 02139ABSTRACTProsodic structure and syntactic structure are not identical; neither arethey unrelated.
Knowing when and how the two eorrespoud could yieldbetter quality speech synthesis, could aid in the disambiguation f com-peting syntactic hypotheses in speech understanding, and could lead to amore comprehensive vi w of human speech processing.
In a set of exper-iments involving 35 pairs of phonetically similar sentence.s representingseven types of structural contrasts, the perceptual evidence shows thatsome, but not all, of the pairs can be disambiguated on the basis of pro-sodie differences.
The phonological evidence relates the disambiguationprimarily to boundary phenomena, lthough prominences sometimesplay a role.
Finally, phonetic analyses describing the attributes of thesephonological markers indicate the importance ofboth absolute and rela-tive measures.INTRODUCTIONThe syntax of spoken utterances i frequently ambiguous.
Yetlisteners usually arrive at something close to the intended mean-ing.
Information listeners might use in disambiguation includesknowledge of the world, shared context, and a source of non-syn-tactic information that is under-represented in written communi-cation: the prosody of the utterance.
By 'prosody' we meansuprasegmental information in speech, such as phrasing andstress, which can alter perceived sentence meaning withoutchanging the segmental identity of the components.Since prosody plays an important role in speech communica-tion, a clear understanding of the mapping between prosodic andsyntactic structure would reveal significant aspects of the cogni-tive processes of speech production and perception.
In addition,it would provide guidelines for the synthesis of more natural-sounding speech.
Further, any contribution that prosody canmake to the resolution of structural ambiguities will be particu-larly helpful in spoken-language understanding, where lexicaland structural ambiguities of written forms are compounded bydifficulties in finding word boundaries and in identifying wordsreliably in automatic speech recognition.
Here, we study themapping between prosody and syntax by minimizing the contri-bution of other possible cues to the resolution of ambiguity.
Thisstudy forms the foundation for further work on modeling prosodyby assessing a set of syntactic environments in which prosodyalone might be used to disambiguate s ntences, and by analyzingthe correspondence between the phonological and phoneticattributes of the prosodic structure of utterances and their per-ceived meanings.We begin by discussing previous work on the relationshipbetween prosody and syntax.
We then describe the recording ofthe corpus, and present results for the experimental studies whichconsider: (1) the accuracy and confidence of listeners in disam-biguating different ypes of syntactic structures, (2) the phono-logical analysis of prosodic cues associated with the differentstructures, and their relation to the disambiguation results, and(3) a phonetic analysis of the phonological markers.
Finally, wediscuss the implications of these results, and raise some unre-solved questions that suggest directions for future research.BACKGROUNDWith few exceptions (e.g., \[9\]), previous tudies have focussedeither on relating phonological spects of prosody to syntax (e.g.,\[8\], \[14\],\[3\], \[12\]), or on relating phonetic/acoustic evidence tosyntax and perceived ifferences (e.g., \[19\], \[4\], \[20\], \[7\], \[11\],\[6\], \[21\]).
A few studies, e.g., \[16\], have considered the mappingfrom phonology to acoustics.
The more phonetic/acoustic studiestypically used a small number of minimal pairs of utterances inorder to facilitate the acoustic measurements and to controlparameters more predsely (exceptions include \[10\], and \[5\]where larger data sets were used).
In contrast, the more phono-logical studies have focussed either on 'illustrative examples' oron text to which prosodic markers have been assigned on thebasis of the syntax of the sentence.
These studies have typicallyignored the fact that there are several possible prosodic hoicesfor a given syntactic structure.
The focus in recent heoretical lin-guistics on human competence for language production, hasresulted in neglect of actual anguage production and neglect ofan area required for speech understanding (by human or bymachine): the mapping from acoustics to meaning.
Clearly,speech communication involves both production and perception,and it involves performance aswell as competence.The work presented in this paper extends previous work,including the important contribution of \[13\], in several ways.First, focussing only on surface-structure ambiguities ( ince ear-lier work indicates that these are good candidates for disambigu-ation), we investigate the ability of listeners to disambiguatesentences for different types of syntactic slructures, using severalinstances of each type.
Second, our focus here is on both produc-tion and perception.
We tried to avoid exaggeration f any disam-biguating strategies on the part of speakers and listeners byseparating the ambiguous pairs from each other in time (no twomembers of an ambiguous pair occurred in the same sessioneither for speakers or for listeners).
Third, to increase reliabilitywithout assessing a large pool of subjects, we used four profes-sional FM radio announcers, who have proved to be very consis-372tent speakers in our pilot studies.
Fourth, in analyzing the cuesused in disambiguation, wehave investigated the possible use ofprominence associated with pitch accents, in addition to prosodicphrase boundary cues.
Finally, to compare durational structuresacross the various entences used, and to facilitate generalizationbeyond the specific sentences used, we present results in terms ofrelative, rather than absolute, durational patterns.
By combiningphonological analyses of prosodic elements uch as boundarytones and prominences with investigation of their acoustic orre-lates and their perceptual effects, we hope to shed some light onboth the mapping between syntactic and prosodic structure, andon the role of prosody in resolving various types of syntacticambiguity.CORPUSOur methodology involved (1) recording pairs of structurallyambiguous sentences, (2) presenting the resulting utterances tonaive listeners for perceptual judgements, and (3) comparing thephonological and phonetic characteristics of the spoken utter-ances with listeners' ability to disambiguate hem.
The record-ings, which formed the basis for both perceptual experiments andphonetic and phonological nalyses, are described below.We used 35 sentences pairs, ambiguous in that the two mem-bers of each pair contained the same string of phones, and couldbe associated with two contrasting syntactic bracketings.
Thesentences manifested seven types of structural mbiguity:(1) parenthetical clauses vs. non-parenthetical subordinateclauses,(2) appositions vs. attached noun (or prepositional) phrases,(3) main clauses linked by coordinating conjunctions vs. amain clause and a subordinate clause,(4) tag questions vs. attached noun phrases,(5) far vs. near attachment of final phrase,(6) left vs. right attachment ofmiddle phrase, and(7) particles vs. prepositions.Note that "high vs. low" attachment is probably amore accu-rate syntactic description than "far vs. near" attachment.
How-ever high vs. low attachment could involve the same site in thestring of words being parsed, and our instances of far (high)attachment all involve attachment to phrases ending in a wordthat is not neighboring the word to be attached.
Therefore, weinstead use the more descriptive t rms "far" and "near".In each of the 7 categories, there were 5 pairs of ambiguoussentences.
In presentation, each sentence was preceded by a dis-ambiguating context of one or two sentences.
The target sen-tences were fully voiced to facilitate pitch tracking for acousticanalysis.
We use the term size of syntactic break to reflect henumber of syntactic brackets that would occur between two pairsof words: more brackets correspond to a larger syntactic break.The site with the largest number of brackets i  the major syntac-tic break.
For structural categories 1-4, sentence A of the pairinvolved a larger syntactic break than sentence B.
For the attach-ment ambiguities 5-7, sentence A of the pair had the larger syn-tactic break later in the sentence than did sentence B.The sentences were recorded by four professional FM publicradio newscasters, one male and three female, who were naivewith respect o the purposes of the experiment.
The newscasterswere asked to read the sentences in context, using their standardradio style of speaking.
In a pilot study, we found the FM radiostyle to have more clearly and consistently marked prosodic uesthan a non-professional speaking style \[18\].
Our hope was that thisstyle would be easier to label prosodically, and therefore the contri-butions of specific phonological cues would be easier to identify.The announcers were presented with the written sentences incon-text paragraphs, with the sentence types and AJB members of thepairs assigned to two recording sessions, so that the two contrastingmembers of a pair did not occur in the same session.
The speakerswere not told that there were special target sentences within theparagraphs.
The recording sessions were separated by at least a fewdays and often several weeks, to minimize the possibility that theannouncers would produce unnatural versions in an attempt oemphasize potential differences between the two members of a pair.Our goal was to create sentence pairs that were segmentally iden-tical but syntactically different, so that we could investigate therelationship between syntax and prosody independent of any differ-ences contributed by the segments.
Although they were not prosed-ically incorrect, tag sentences in which the tags were read asquestions were rerecorded as statements sothat the question bound-ary tone cue would not confound the potential contribution of otherprosodic ues.PERCEPTUAL EXPERIMENTSMethodsFor the perceptual experiments, the spoken context sentenceswere edited out so that the target sentences could be presented inisolation.
The 35 sentence pairs produced by a single speaker werepresented tolisteners in two sessions; only one member of each pairwas heard in each session using a mixed assignment of half type Aand half type B sentences in each session (analogous to the strategyused for recording the sentences).
The different syntactic typeswere interleaved, and A versions always appeared before B ver-sions on the answer sheet.
The listeners heard the sentences in asmall conference room from a portable stereo.
The tape player wasstopped between sentences until subjects were ready to continue;the subjects were under no time constraints to make their judge-merits.
Each listening session (35 sentences) took approximately 40minutes, and was conducted without any additional breaks.
Listen-ing sessions were separated by at least hree weeks to minimize lis-tener recall of the previous session's entences.
Listeners weregiven an answer sheet with both disambiguating contexts writtenout for each sentence; the target sentence was printed in bold at theend of each context.
They were asked to mark the context whichthey thought best matched what they heard, with an additionalmarker if they were confident of their decision.
Subjects wererewarded with pizza and soft drinks after the session.The subjects were all native speakers of American English, naivewith respect to the purpose of the experiments.
Most were engineer-ing students, recruited through flyers advertising the free pizza.
Forthe second two speakers, to attract more subjects, we increased theincentive by offering an additional $50 prize to the person whoscored highest on this task.
The number of listeners who heard bothsessions for each of the different speakers was 13 for Speaker F1A,15 for F2B, 17 for F3A and 12 for M1B.
Different subjects partici-373pated in the experiments for the different speakers, although therewas some overlap in the subject pool.
Four subjects participated inall four experiments.ResultsFor the analysis, we assume that the speaker produced theintended version of the sentence, and define a correct listenerresponse as one which identifies that version.
Accuracy is the per-centage of correct listener responses.
Confidence is the percent ofthe time that listeners indicated that they were confident of theresponse choice.
Table 1 summarizes average subject accuracy forthe different ypes of ambiguity.
The averages are taken over thefour speaker averages, so as not to more heavily weight he utter-ances that were heard by more listeners.
The averages for eachspeaker are taken across five versions of each structural type, aswell as across the various listeners (12-17 per talker).Table 1 shows that subjects could reliably disambiguate many,but not all of the ambiguities.
Subjects were rarely confident andincorrect, and the confidence is somewhat correlated (0.64) with theaccuracy.
On the average, subjects did well above chance (84% cor-rec0 in assigning the sentences to their appropriate contexts,although subjects were confident of their judgments only 52% ofthe time.
Also on average, main-subordinate (3B) sentences andnear attachments (SB) were close to the chance level; parentheticals(1A), far attachments (5A) and non-tags (4B) were recognized atlevels greater than chance but not reliably; and all other sentencetypes were reliably disambiguated.Type1.
Parenthetical or not2.
Apposition or not3.
M-M vs. M-S4.
Tags or not5.
Far/near attachmentVersion A7792*88*95*786.
Left/fight attachment 94*7.
Particle/Preposition 82*Average 87Version B Overall96* 8691" 9254 7181 8863 7195* 9581' 8280 84Table 1.
Perceptual experiment results, averaged over the fourspeakers, for ambiguous sentence interpretation.
The Version A/Bfigures are based on 285 total observations of each class.
Anasterisk marks the A and B version responses that had highaccuracy in listener esponses.
(High accuracy was defined to beaverage accuracy minus the standard eviation greater than 50%.
)PHONOLOGICAL ANALYSISThe perceptual experiments described above clearly show thatspeakers can encode prosodic ues to structural mbiguities inwaysthat listeners can use reliably.
This section attempts o find a phono-logical answer to the question: How do they do it?
To approach thisquestion, we labeled iscrete, prosodic phenomena (specifically, pro-sodic phrase boundaries and prominences) that could mark structuralcontrasts phonologically.
We then analyzed the relationship betweenthese labels and the patterns in the perceptual ccuracy study.
Thereare other prosodic ues (e.g., the type of pitch accent), and there areother phonological correlates of the prosodic structure (e.g., phono-logical processes at prosodic boundaries) which can likely play a rolein disambiguation.
However, analysis of these phenomena wasbeyond the scope of the present study.
In the following section, wedescribe our labeling system and analyze the associated constituentsin terms of their relationship tothe syntactic structures inour corpus,and the accuracy with which sentences are identified.Perceptual LabelsWe chose labels based on three criteria: (1) they should be used con-sistently within and across labelers, (2) they should be rather close tosurface forms (to make eventual automatic detection more tractableand to improve labeler consistency), and (3) they should provide amechanism for communicating information toa parser.
For these rea-sons, our notation differs somewhat from that of other systems,although it is similar in many respects.We used seven levels to represent perceptual groupings (or, viewedanother way, degrees of separation) between words.
These seven lev-els appeared adequate for our corpus and also reflected the levels ofprosodic onstituents described in the literature.
Our labeling experi-ence led us to adopt he maximum number of levels suggested in theliterature, although not all are universally accepted.
We used numbersto express the degree of decoupling between each pair of words as fol-lows: 0 - boundary within a clitic group, 1 - normal word boundary, 2- boundary marking a grouping of words generally having only oneprominence, 3 - intermediate phrase boundary, 4 - intonational phraseboundary, 5 - boundary marking a grouping of intonational phrases,and 6 - sentence boundary.Break indices of 4, 5, and 6 are "major" prosodic boundaries; con-stituents defined by these boundaries are often referred to as 'intona-tion phrases' (e.g., see \[2\]), and are marked by a boundary tone.Boundary tones were labeled using two types of falls (final fall andnon-final fall), and two types of rises (continuation rise and questionrise).
The break index 3 corresponds to the unit referred to as an'intermediate phrase' in \[2\] or a 'phonological phrase' in \[14\].
The'phrase accent' pitch marker theoretically associated with the interme-diate phrase was not labeled.Prominent syllables in the sentences were labeled using P1 formajor phrasal prominence; P0for a lesser prominence; and C for con-trastive stress, which occurred rarely in these sentences (marked on1% of the total words for four speakers).The prosodic ues were labeled perceptually b  three listeners usingmultiple passes.
The data were first labeled by the listeners individu-ally; any differences in markings were then discussed; and then thesentence was replayed afew times to allow the labelers to revise theirmarkings.
Finally, a majority vote of the labels (which at this pointhad a correlation of 0.96 across labelers) was used as the final hand-marked label set.
All labeling was perceptual.AnalysisTo separate semantic effects from effects that should occur through-out the syntactic lass, we paid particular attention to those cues that374reliably occurred in the A versions of one class, but never in thecontrasting B versions, or vice versa.
We also paid particular atten-tion to those sentences that had high accuracy and confidence and tothe outlier sentences.
Below we mention some general results andthen discuss briefly the individual classes investigated.General Observations: We found that prosodic boundary cues areassociated with almost all reliably identified sentences.
Presence ofan intonational phrase boundary (break index 4 or 5) was often, butnot always, a reliable cue and was most often observed at embed-ded or conjoined clause boundaries (marked by commas in thetext).
In addition, adifference in the relative size of prosodic breakindices, or in the location of the largest break regardless of size, wasfrequently the only disambiguating i formation i the labels for thesmaller syntactic onstituents that were reliably disambiguated.
Byand large, relatively larger break indices tended to mean that syn-tactic attachment was higher ather than lower.
In contrast to thepervasive association ofboundary cues with successful disambigu-ation, prominence s emed to play mainly a supporting role, and wasthe sole cue in only a few sentences.Parenthetical (A) vs. non-parentheticals (B): The A versionsalways have break indices larger than 3 surrounding the parentheti-cal, except for one talker's rendition of one sentence.
The B mem-bers have break indices less than 4 at one or both of thecorresponding sites.
In all cases, the sentences with major prosodicbreaks urrounding the parenthetical were identified as version Aby 75% or more listeners, and sentences without he major prosodicbreaks were identified as version B 80% of the time or more.
Thisgeneralization includes an anomalous A version having a 3 at theparenthetical boundary, which was identified in accordance with theindices rather than in accordance with the speaker's intent.Apposition (A) vs. non-apposition (B): The A version of the pair,the appositive, always has a major prosodic break both before andimmediately following the appositive, The B version of the pairtypically has a small break index at one or both of the correspond-ing sites.
Two speakers produced a major break at the 'wrong' loca-tion, i.e., after "are" in "Wherever you are in Romania or Bulgaria,remember me."
This predicts that the sets should be clearly separa-ble, except for this sentence, which is what we found: All werelabeled by the naive listeners at 87% accuracy or higher, except forthis sentence, which was 73% correct.Main-main (A) vs. main-subordinate s ntences (B): The A ver-sions of the pairs were typically well-identified, whereas the B ver-sions tended to be close to the chance level.
This could be the resultof a syntactic response bias if the conjunction constructions are pre-ferred over the deleted "that" in the alternants.
This is interestingsince the bracketings differ for the two versions of the sentence, andyet the two versions are apparently not well separated perceptually.The prosodic transcriptions suggest a reason: both versions of thesentence have a major prosodic boundary in the same location,associated with the embedded (B) or conjoined (A) sentence.Tags (A) vs. non-tags (B): The A members all have a major pro-sodic break before the tag, and these were all identified as A ver-sions (92% or more or the time).
One talker produced one B versionwith a major prosodic boundary in the "wrong" place, and 92% ofthe listeners identified this utterance as version A, in accordancewith the prosody.
Two other B versions were frequently misidenti-fled; these sentences had no boundary tone, but did have a breakindex of 3 (the largest in these sentences) atthe site correspondingto the boundary of the tag.Far (A) vs. near (B) attachment sentencey.
The A versionsshowed a tendency to have the largest break index in the sentencebefore the phrase to be attached to a "far" site (i.e., a site other thanto a phrase nding in the immediately preceding word).
This patternoccurred in 15 of the 20 A utterances and only one of the B utter-ances.
One talker's production of one A version had a 2 at the sitein question, and a majority of the listeners labeled this as version B,which happened with none of the other A versions.
Thus, the loca-tion of a relatively large break index at the site in question appearsto block the "near" (low) attachment, and a relatively small indexappears to enhance it.Left (A) vs. right (B) attachment sentences: For every renditionby every talker, there was a smaller break index at the attachmentlocation than at the other end of the word or phrase to be attached.For the four sentence pairs that differed in comma location, the dif-ference between the two break indices was large (2 or more), typi-cally 0 or 1 in the location without a comma and 3, 4 or 5 in thelocation with the comma.
These utterances were very reliably iden-tified, with greater than 92% accuracy for all but one case.Particles (A) vs. prepositions (B): There is less frequently a majorprosodic break before a prepositional phrase compared to conjoinedor embedded sentences: 60% of the prepositional phrases in thisclass followed a major prosodic break, compared to 90% observedin the context of clauses.
The real structural c ue appears to be notthe absolute size of the break index but its relative size.
For all Aversions, we observed a smaller break index between the verb andparticle, compared to the indices before the verb or after the parti-cle.
For the B versions, the relations were reversed: there was a ten-deney to have a larger break between the verb and preposition,compared to those before the verb or after the preposition.There was little systematic difference in the speakers' use of pre-sodie cues.
There were some differences in individual sentenceswhich accounted for the variation in listener responses, but no con-sistent characteristics attributed toany one speaker.
The correlationof break indices between pairs of speakers was 0.94-0.95, and therelative frequencies ofprominences for the different speakers werealso very similar.
This result is consistent with the finding in \[5\] of ahigh correlation i  duration patterns between different versions ofthe same utterance r ad by non-professional speakers.PHONETIC ANALYSISWe have thus far presented evidence that naive listeners can reli-ably use prosody to separate structurally ambiguous sentences, andphonological evidence that suggests how listeners might use pros-ody to assign syntactic structure.
Other studies have focussed onsyntactic differences associated with disambiguation.
Our evidenceshows that the prosodic structure can point to the syntactic differ-ences in systematic ways: sentences with certain correspondencesbetween syntactic and prosodic structures are reliably disambigu-ated, whereas others are not.
In this section we investigate some ofthe phonetic evidence that might be responsible for the prosodicdisambiguation.
Since previous work suggests that he primary pro-sodic cues are duration and intonation, the present study is confinedto these two cues.
However, we acknowledge that other cues, suchas the application or non-application f phonological rules, contrib-ute to the perception of prosodic boundaries.
We tried to minimize375such effects by asking the speakers to reread sentences in whichovert segmental cues were produced, i.e., where the gross phonetictranscription of the two versions of the sentence would differ.In the results presented here, segment duration ormalization isdetermined automatically using an HMM-based speech recognitionsystem, the SRI Decipher system, which uses phonological rules togenerate bushy pronunciation networks that should enable moreaccurate phonetic transcription and alignment than single pronunci-ation speech recognizers \[22\].
Each phone duration was normalizedaccording to speaker- and phone-dependent means as described in\[15\].
The variance of normalized uration in different contextstends to be large, because the normalization has not accounted foreffects uch as syllable position, phonological nd phonetic ontext,and speaking rate.
In other work, we have found that variance canbe reduced by adapting the phone means according to a local esti-mate of the speaking rate, which also plays a role in determiningphoneme duration.We observed longer normalized urations for phones precedingmajor phrase boundaries and for phones bearing major prominencescompared to other contexts.
As mentioned earlier, it has long beennoted that syntactic breaks are often associated with durationlengthening in the phrase-final syllable, though the scope of thelengthening is in dispute.
We measured average normalized ura-tion in the rhyme of the final syllable of all words and found thathigher break indices are generally associated with greater normal-ized duration.
The fact that duration is affected by constituents atmany levels in the prosodic hierarchy is interesting, and consistentwith our observations that relative break index size is meaningfuleven below the level of the intonational phrase (4,5).
However,more research is needed on this question, since only the differencebetween the groups 0-3 (without boundary tone) and 4-6 (withboundary tone) is statistically significant; differences within thosegroups are not.
Pauses are also associated with major prosodicboundaries, occurring at 48/212 (23%) boundaries marked with 4and 17/25 (67%) boundaries marked with 5.
Sentence-final pausescould not be measured for these sentences, which were always thefinal sentence in a paragraph.
In only one case did a pause occurafter a 3.Our analysis of normalized uration of the vowel nucleus for thedifferent prominence markings revealed that: (1) major promi-nences (P1, C) tend to be longer than unmarked or minor (P0)prominences, although the effect is small before major prosodicbreaks; (2) word-final syllables tend to be longer than non-word-final syllables; (3) syllables are longer in words before major breaksthan before smaller breaks, though the effect is more dramatic forword-final syllables than for non-word-final syllables; and (4) theeffects eem to be somewhat independent: the longest syllables arethose with a major prominence, in word-final position, before amajor break.Intonational cues observed included boundary tones, pitch rangechanges and pitch accents.
Boundary tones are involved for thebreak indices 4, 5 and 6.
Sentence-final (6) boundary tones are typi-cally final falls; level (5) boundary tones are usually perceived asincomplete falls; and intonational phrase (4) boundary tones aremost often continuation rises but occasionally are perceived as par-tial falls.
Tags were sometimes associated with a sentence-finalquestion rise, though we tried to eliminate this cue as much as pos-sible by asking the radio announcers to reread versions when thisoccurred.
Another intonational cue was a perceived rop in pitchbaseline and range in a parenthetical phrase, relative to the rest ofthe sentence.
This pitch range change was not always perceived forappositives.
In examining the associated fundamental frequency(F0) contours, we observed a region of reduced F0 excursion duringthe period of perceived range change.
Though intonation is animportant cue, duration and pauses alone provide enough informa-tion to automatically abel break indices with a high correlation(greater than 0.86) to hand-labeled break indices \[15\].Since prominence was not consistently associated with specificsyntactic structures in any systematic pattern (with the exception ofparticles), it appears that the disambiguating role of prominences(or pitch accents) differs from that of boundary phenomena, beingassociated more with the semantics rather than with the syntax of anutterance.
In other words, we suspect, with others, that prominenceis related more to the contextual focus of the sentence.DISCUSSIONWe have confirmed that, for a variety of syntactic lasses, but notall, naive listeners can reliably separate meanings on the basis ofdifferences inprosodic information.
We have further shown phono-logical and phonetic evidence bearing on how they might do this:by the tendency to associate relatively larger prosodic breaks withlarger syntactic breaks.
Further, syntactic boundaries of clauses thatcontain complete sentences nearly always coincide with the bound-aries of major prosodic onstituents (as marked, e.g., by syllable-final lengthening, a boundary tone and perhaps a pause).
Syntacticconstituents within these major constituents may be associated withany of several different levels of prosodic boundaries, i.e., speakershave more choice in phrasing, and prosodic boundaries need notcorrelate perfectly with syntactic ones, though they often do.
Wehave also shown the importance of the relative size of prosodicbreaks within a sentence.
Though evidence relating to boundaryphenomena appeared to be most important, here were some strut-rares for which phrasal prominence ither was the only cue orplayed a supporting role in distinguishing between the two ver-sions.Several aspects of the design of our experiment require commentinvolving the interpretation f our results.
First, the disambiguationof some of the sentences may have been confounded by prosodiccues related to non-syntactic factors, e.g., given vs. new informa-tion, focus, contrastive stress, etc.
However, the use of several sen-tences and of several speakers hould minimize these effects, andshould make it unlikely that there is a systematic orrelationbetween such effects and the A and B versions of the sentences.Clearly, to fully elucidate the relationship between prosody andsyntax will require the investigation of far more examples of farmore syntactic onstructions than we have been able to use in thisstudy.
Second, our finding of a correlation between the syntax andthe phonological markers of prosody may have been corrupted bythe fact that the labelers typically knew which version they were lis-tening to.
However, the labelers did not know the relative accuracyof the responses of the naive subjects.
Therefore, these labels arerelevant insofar as they account for both the accurate and the inac-curate responses.
Third, we did not investigate he role of syntacticconstituent length, which others have found to influence the place-ment of prosodic boundaries \[1\].
Lastly, the use of read speech byprofessional radio announcers as speakers raises questions aboutgeneralizing the results to spontaneous speech by more averagetalkers.
We believe that the use of the professional speakers has376allowed us to obtain initial results using far fewer speakers thanwould be needed using non-professionals.
We hypothesize that theprosodic cues will be similar for non-professional speakers,although less consistently used and not as clearly marked.Our results have both theoretical nd empirical implications.
Wehave shown that naive listeners can use prosody to separate struc-turally ambiguous sentence pairs, and we have further shown pho-nological and acoustic evidence of how they might do this.
Inspeech generation applications, uch information isuseful since dif-ferent prosodic markers will affect he interpretation f a sentence.Prosodic ues are particularly important in computer speech under-standing applications, where the semantic rules available to the sys-tem are limited relative to the capabilities of human listeners.
Inaddition, in these applications, prosodic ues can be used prior tosemantic analysis, to reduce the number of syntactically acceptableparses by eliminating those inconsistent with the prosody \[15\].FUTURE DIRECTIONSThe results reported here provide evidence for some systematicrelationships between prosody and syntax that should be exploredfurther in several ways.
First, a larger number of syntactic struc-tures must be examined in order to make the prosody/syntax rela-tionship more explicit.
Second, we note that some sentences weresuccessfully disambiguated with cues that were not represented inour labeling scheme.
Since prominences were not differentiated asto type of pitch accent, a more detailed classification of intonationin such contexts could yield more information.
Finally, for com-puter speech understanding applications, it will be important toinvestigate the extension of these results to spontaneous speech bynon-professional speakers, where hesitation phenomena and speecherrors will affect he prosodic structure.AcknowledgmentsThis material is based upon work supported by the National Sci-ence Foundation under Grant No.
IRI-8805680 in coordination withDARPA/NSF funding under NSF grant number IRI-8905249.
Thegovernment has certain rights in this material.
Any opinions, find-ings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this mate-rial are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect he viewsof the government funding agencies.
In addition, the authors wishto thank Andrea Levitt and Leah Larkey for their work with PattiPrice in generating the ambiguous sentences; the radio announcersat WBUR in Boston who recorded the sentences; the subjects whoparticipated in the perceptual experiments; Nanette Veilleux andColin Wightman for many hours of prosodic labeling; and GayBaldwin for verification of phonetic alignments.
We thank JohnBear for providing syntactic bracketings of the sentences and formany useful comments on the paper.REFERENCES\[1\] Bachenko, J. and Fitzpatrick, E. (1990).
"A computationalgrammar of discourse-neutral prosodic phrasing in English,"Computational Linguistics 16:3, 155-170.\[2\] Beckman, M. and Pierrehumbert, J.
(1986).
"Intonational struc-ture in Japanese and English," Phonology Yearbook 3, ed.
J.Ohala, pp.
255-309.\[3\] Bing, J.
(1984).
"A discourse domain identified by intonation,"pp.
11-19 in Intonation, Accent and Rhythm: Studies in Dis-course Phonology (New York, de Gruyter).\[4\] Cooper, W. and Sorensen, J.
(1977).
"Fundamental frequencycontours at syntactic boundaries," J. Acoust.
Soc.
Am.
62:3,683-692.\[5\] Crystal, T. H. and House, A. S. (1990).
"Articulation rate andthe duration of syllables and stress groups in connectedspeech," J. Ac.
Soc.
Am.
88:1,101-112.\[6\] Duez, D. (1985).
"Perception of silent pauses in continuousspeech," Language and Speech 28:4,377-389.\[7\] Garro, L. and Parker, F. (1982).
"Some suprasegmental charac-teristics of relative clauses in English," J. Phonetics 10, 149-161.\[8\] Gee, J. P. and Grosjean, F. (1983).
"Performance structures: Apsycholinguistic and linguistic appraisal," Cognitive Psychol-ogy 15, 411-458.\[9\] Geers, A.
(1978).
"Intonation contour and syntactic structure aspredictors of apparent segmentation," J. Exp.
Psych: Hum.Perc.
and Perf.
4:3,273-283.\[10\] Klatt, D. H. (1975).
"Vowel lengthening is syntactically deter-mined in a connected discourse," J. Phonetics 3, 129-140.\[11\] Kutik, E., Cooper, W., and Boyce, S. (1983).
"Declination offundamental frequency in speakers' production of parentheti-cal and main clauses," J. Ac.
Soc.
Am.
73:5, 1731-1738.\[12\] Ladd, D. R. (1986).
"Intonational phrasing: the case for recur-sire prosodic structure," Phonology Yearbook 3, 311-340.\[13\] Lehiste, I.
(1973).
"Phonetic disambiguation of syntacticambiguity," Glossa 7:2, 107-121.\[14\] Nespor, M. and Vogel, I.
(1983) "Prosodic structure above theword," Prosody: Models and Measurements, Cutler and Ladd,eds.
(Springer-Verlag), pp.
123-140.\[15\] Ostendorf, M., Price, P., Bear, J. and Wightman, C.
(1990).
"The use of relative duration in syntactic disambiguation,"Proceedings of the 3rd DARPA Workshop on Speech and Natu-ral Language.\[16\] Pierrehumbert, J.
(1981).
"Synthesizing intonation," J. Ac.Soc.
Am.
70:4, 985-995.\[17\] Price, P., Ostendorf, M., Shattuck-Hufnagel, S., and Fong, C.(manuscript submitted) "The use of prosody in syntactic dis-ambiguation.
"\[18\] Price, P., Ostendorf, M., Shattuck-Hufnagel, S., and Veilleux,N., (1988).
"A Methodology for Analyzing Prosody," J. Ac.Soc.
Am.
84, Suppl.
1, $99.\[19\] Scholes, R. (1971).
"On the spoken disambiguation f superfi-cially ambiguous sentences," Language and Speech 14, 1-11.\[20\] Thorsen, N. (1980).
"A study of the perception of sentenceintonation -- Evidence from Danish," J. Ac.
Soc.
Am.
67:3,1014-1030.\[21\] Thorsen, N. (1985).
"Intonation and text in standard Danish,"J. Ac.
Soc.
Am.
77:3, 1205-1216.\[22\] Weintraub, M.et al (1989), "Linguistic onstraints in hiddenMarkov model based speech recognition," Proceedings of theInternational Conference on Acoustics, Speech and SignalProcessing, 699-702.377
