Evaluat ing the Use of Prosodic  In format ionin Speech Recogn i t ion  and Unders tand ingMari Ostendor.f Patti PriceBoston UniversityBoston, MA 02215PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project is to investigate the use of dif-ferent levels of prosodic information in speech recognitionand understanding.
In particular, the current focus of thework is the use of prosodic phrase boundary information iparsing.
The research involves determining a representationof prosodic information suitable for use in a speech under-standing system, developing reliable algorithms for detec-tion of the prosodic ues in speech, investigating architec-tures for integrating prosodic ues in a parser, and evaluat-ing the potential improvements of prosody in the context ofthe SRI Spoken Language System.
This research is spon-sored jointly by DARPA and NSF.RECENT RESULTS?
Investigated duration lengthening at different levels ofprosodic breaks over different ypes of units (e.g., finalsyllable, interstress interval), finding that the primaryregion of lengthening is the phrase-final, word-finalsyllable rhyme.?
Implemented a binary tree quantizer in our HMMprosodic phrase boundary detection system, which en-abled the use of multiple cues determined from theabove analysis.
A new algorithm for adapting modelparameters has also been implemented.
The result-ing algorithm has speaker-independent break recog-nition performance above the level of our previousspeaker-dependent system.
A paper describing thiswork (Wightman and Ostendorf) appears in the Pro-ceedings of the International Conference on Acoustics,Speech and Signal Processing.?
Submitted for publication an article describing a per-ceptual, phonological nd phonetic analysis of the re-lationship between prosodic structure and syntacticstructure.
A shortened version of this paper (Priceet al) appears in this volume.
(This work was alsofunded by a related grant on prosody, NSF grant num-ber IRI-8805680.)?
Developed an initial version of an analysis-by-synthesisapproach for scoring a syntactic parse in terms of theSRI InternationalMenlo Park, CA 94025observed prosodic onstituents.
This algorithm lever-ages recent results on the role of prosody in disam-biguation, mentioned above.
We assessed this methodby using the algorithm to decide between pairs of am-biguous entences, finding that the algorithm perfor-mance is close to human perception.
A paper describ-ing this work (Wightman et al) appears in this pro-ceedings.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Further improve the break index algorithms by addingan intonation feature to the quantizer.
We expectthis to improve performance onsiderably because themain source of errors is confusion between break in-dices 3 (no boundary tone) and 4 (marked with bound-ary tone).?
Evaluate the break index detection algorithms on para-graphs of speech (as opposed to sentences) and onspontaneous speech as opposed to read speech.?
Implement the parse scoring algorithm using automat-ically obtained parses and evaluate on additional data.?
Utilize the parse scoring algorithm in speech under-standing.408
