NATURAL LANGUAGE RESEARCHAravind K. Joshi (PI), Mitch Marcus (Co-PI),Mark Steedman (co-PI), and Bonnie Webber (co-PI)Department of Computer  and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104PROJECT GOALSOur main objective is basic research and system develop-ment lea~cling to: (1) characterization f information carriedby (a) syntax, semantics, and discourse structure, (b) theirrelation to information carried by intonation, and (c) devel-opment of methods for using this information for generationand understanding; (2) development of architectures for in-tegration of utterance planning with lexical, syntactic andintonational choice; (3) development of incremental strate-gies for using syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic knowledgein understanding and generating language; and (4) inves-tigating how structural and statistical information can becombined, both for processing, as well as for acquisition.RECENT RESULTS?
Recently we have developed and implemented a newpredictive left-to-right parser for tree adjoining gram-mars (TAG).
This parser does not preserve the so-called valid prefix property and thereby ~hieves ef-ficiency.
A key discovery was that the valid prefixproperty does not necessarily hold for a parser for non-context-free grammars, although it holds trivially forcontext-free grammars (CFG).?
A new shift reduce parser for CFG, based on theshared forest approach, was designed and implemented.This is the first such parser whose performance can beprecisely defined.
Previous approaches to parsing bythe use of the shared forest approach by other inves-tigators elsewhere have not been successful in givinga precise characterization.?
TAGs are tree-based systems and have a domain oflocality larger than CFGs.
It was always understoodthat a compositional semantics can be defined for aTAG based on the object language trees, but there isno point in doing this because this approach ignoresthe TAG derivation tree completely.
Hence, a formal-ism, called synchronous TAG, for integrating syntaxand semantics using the derivation trees of TAG, wasdeveloped.
This work was carried out in collaborationwith Stuart Shieber (Harvard University).?
Categorial theory has been successfully applied to theproblem of computer synthesis of contextually appro-priate intonation in spoken language.?
Implementation of the theory of tense and aspect us-ing an event calculus was initiated.?
Extension of a formal theory unifying intonationalstructures, discourse information structures and sur-face syntactic structures within a categorial frame-work to a wide range of coordinate and relativizedconstructions.?
The distribution of verb phrase ellipses with respectto antecedent location as preface to a focus analysisof the phenomenon was carried out using the Browncorpus.?
A study of free-adjunct-and purpose clauses was car-ried out in a corpus of natural anguage instructions asa first step in developing an adequate representationalformalism for action description in natural anguage.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Complete implementation of the shift reduce parserfor TAG, based on the shared forest approach.?
Complete the work on coordination i  TAG and beginimplementation of this approach in the TAG parser.?
Implement he synchronous TAG formalism for inte-grating syntax and semantics of TAG and develop asmall maxhine translation system.?
Begin exploration of statistical techniques for bothparsing and acquisition of TAGs.?
Further development of the event calculus implemen-tation of tense and aspect.?
Continue development of the categorial grammar-driven theory of computer synthesis of contextuallyappropriate intonation.?
Develop an algorithm for resolving instances of verbphrase ellipses.
This algorithm will be focus-basedand will build up our earlier work on centering whichwas developed for the interpretation of definite noun-phrases in discourse.429
