Segment-Based Acoustic Models with Multi-level SearchAlgorithms for Continuous Speech RecognitionMarl Oatendov/ J. Robin Rohlicel?Boston UniversityBoston, MA 02215PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project is to develop improved acousticmodels for speaker-independent recognition of continuousspeech, together with efficient search algorithms appropri-ate for use with these models.
The current work on acousticmodelling is focussed on stochastic, segment-based modelsthat capture the time correlation of a sequence of observa-tions (feature vectors) that correspond to a phoneme.
Sincethe use of segment models is computationally complex, weare investigating multi-level, iterative algorithms to achievea more efficient search.
Furthermore, these algorithms willprovide a formalism for incorporating higher-order infor-mation.
This research is jointly sponsored by DARPA andNSF.RECENT RESULTS?
Demonstrated improved phoneme classification per-formance (23% reduction of error) with left-context-dependent, gender-dependent segment models.?
Developed anew segment model for recognition basedon a dynamical system representation f time correla-tion.
Since classical approaches to system identifica-tion (parameter stimation) are too costly, an alterna-tive algorithm was developed based on the Estimate-Maximize algorithm.
Phoneme classification resultsshow a significant improvement over previous approachesto time correlation modeling.?
Jointly with BBN, developed a methodology for in-tegrating recognition systems based on rescoring theN-best sentence hypotheses and combining scores torerank the sentences.
Demonstrated improved wordrecognition performance by combining the BBN Byb-los system results with the BU segment model rescor-ing.
Implemented a segment model rescoring systemusing context-dependent models which gives encour-aging initial results.?
Applied Bayesian techniques for speaker-adaptationto the stochastic segment model.
Adapting distribu-tions means alone, with 30 sentences, yields a 16% re-BBN Inc.Cambridge, MA 02138duction in phoneme recogntion error relative to speaker-independent performance.?
Investigated iterative search algorithms for word recog-nition.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Extend dynamical system model results by consid-ering different correlation structures and confirmingthat classification performance extends to recognitionapplications.?
Investigate the use of context-dependent models insegment-based word recognition i  the N-best rescor-ing formalism.?
Investigate parallel algorithms for segment recognitionimplemented on the Connection Machine.?
Extend algorithms for speaker adaptation which in-clude variance adaptation.?
Continued investigation ofiterative and multi-level al-gorithms including: incorporation ofglobal constraintsand features, iterative search for word recognition,and progressive application of phoneme context, wordand grammar constraints.409
