Machine Translation Using Abductive InferenceJerry R. Hobbs and Megumi KameyamaSI:LI International333 Ravenswood Ave.Menlo Park, CA 94025Mach ine  Trans lat ion  and  Wor ld  Knowledge.Many existing approaches to machine translation takefor granted that the information presented in the outputis found somewhere in the input, and, moreover, thatsuch information should be expressed at a single rep-resentational level, say, in terms of the parse trees or of"semantic" assertions.
Languages, however, not only ex-press the equivalent information by drastically differentlinguistic means, but also often disagree in what dis-tinctions should be expressed linguistically at all.
Forexample, in translating from Japanese to English, it isoften necessary to supply determiners for noun phrases,and this in general cannot be done without deep under-standing of the source text.
Similarly, in translating fromEnglish to Japanese, politeness considerations, which inEnglish are implicit in the social situation and explicit invery diffuse ways in, for example, the heavy use of hypo-theticals, must be realized grammatically in Japanese.Machine translation therefore requires that the appro-priate inferences be drawn and that the text be inter-preted to some depth.
Recently, an elegant approach toinference in discourse interpretation has been developedat a number of sites (e.g., Charniak and Goldman, 1988;Hobbs et al, 1990; Norvig, 1987), all based on the notionof abduction, and we have begun to explore its potentialapplication to machine translation.
We argue that thisapproach provides the possibility of deep reasoning andof mapping between the languages at a variety of levels)In terpreta t ion  as Abduct ion .
Abductive inferenceis inference to the best explanation.
The easiest way tounderstand it is to compare it with two words it rhymeswith--deduction and induction.
Deduction is when froma specific fact p(A) and a general rule (V x)p(z) D q(x)we conclude q(A).
Induction is when from a number ofinstances of p(A) and q(A) and perhaps other factors,we conclude (Vz)p(z) D q(z).
Abduction is the thirdpossibility.
It is when from q(A) and (Vz)p(z) D q(z),we conclude p(A).
Think of q(A) as some observationalevidence, of (Vz)p(z) D q(z) as a general law that could1 The authors have profited from discussions about this workwith Stu Shieber, Mark Stickel, and the participants in the Trans-lation Group at CSLI.
The research was funded by the DefenseAdvanced Research Projects Agency under Office of Naval Re-search contract N00014-85-C-0013, and by a gift from the SystemsDevelopment Foundation.explain the occurrence of q(A), and of p(A) as the hid-den, underlying specific cause of q(A).
Much of the waywe interpret he world in general can be understood asa process of abduction.When the observational evidence, the thing to be in-terpreted, is a natural anguage text, we must providethe best explanation of why the text would be true.In the TACITUS Project at SRI, we have developed ascheme for abductive inference that yields a significantsimplification in the description of interpretation pro-cesses and a significant extension of the range of phenom-ena that can be captured.
It has been implemented inthe TACITUS System (Hobbs et ah, 1990; Stickel, 1989)and has been applied to several varieties of text.
Theframework suggests the integrated treatment of syntax,semantics, and pragmatics described below.
Our prin-cipal aim in this paper is to examine the utility of thisframework as a model for translation.In the abductive framework, what the interpretationof a sentence is can be described very concisely:To interpret a sentence:(1) Prove the logical form of the sentence,together with the constraints thatpredicates impose on theirarguments,allowing for coercions,Merging redundancies where possible,Making assumptions where necessary.By the first line we mean "prove from the predicate cal-culus axioms in the knowledge base, the logical form thathas been produced by syntactic analysis and semantictranslation of the sentence.
"In a discourse situation, the speaker and hearer bothhave their sets of private beliefs, and there is a large over-lapping set of mutual beliefs.
An utterance stands withone foot in mutual belief and one foot in the speaker'sprivate beliefs.
It is a bid to extend the area of mutualbelief to include some private beliefs of the speaker's.It is anchored referentially in mutual belief, and whenwe prove the logical form and the constraints, we arerecognizing this referential anchor.
This is the given in-formation, the definite, the presupposed.
W\] ere it is141necessary to make assumptions, the information comesfrom the speaker's private beliefs, and hence is the newinformation, the indefinite, the asserted.
Merging redun-dancies is a way of getting a minimal, and hence a best,interpretation.An  Example .
This characterization, elegant houghit may be, would be of no interest if it did not lead tothe solution of the discourse problems we need to havesolved.
A brief example will illustrate that it indeeddoes.
(2) The Tokyo office called.This example illustrates three problems in "local prag-matics", the reference problem (What does "the Tokyooffice" refer to?
), the compound nominal interpretationproblem (What is the implicit relation between Tokyoand the office?
), and the metonymy problem (How canwe coerce from the office to the person at the office whodid the calling?
).Let us put these problems aside, and interpret thesentence according to characterization (1).
The logicalform is something like(3) (3 e,x, o, b)caU'(e, x) A person(x)A rel(x, o) A office(o) A nn(t, o)A Tokyo(t)That is, there is a calling event e by a person x relatedsomehow (possibly by identity) to the explicit subject ofthe sentence o, which is an office and bears some unspec-ified relation nn to t which is Tokyo.Suppose our knowledge base consists of the followingfacts: We know that there is a person John who worksfor O which is an office in Tokyo T.(4) person(J), work-for(J,O), office(O),in(O, T), Tokyo(T)Suppose we also know that work-for is a possible coer-cion relation,(5) (Vx,y)work- for(x,y)  D ret(x,y)and that in is a possible implicit relation in compoundnominals,(6) (V y, z)in(y, z) D nn(z, y)Then the proof of all but the first conjunct of (3) isstraightforward.
We thus assume (3e)call'(e, J), andthis constitutes the new information.Notice now that all of our local pragmatics problemshave been solved.
"The Tokyo office" has been resolvedto O.
The implicit relation between Tokyo and the officehas been determined to be the in relation.
"The Tokyooffice" has been coerced into "John, who works for theTokyo office.
"This is of course a simple example.
More complex ex-amples and arguments are given in Hobbs et al, (1990).A more detailed description of the method of abductiveinference, particularly the system of weights and costsfor choosing among possible interpretations, i  given inthat paper and in Stickel, (1989).The  In tegrated  Framework .
The idea of inter-pretation as abduction can be combined with the olderidea of parsing as deduction (Kowalski, 1980, pp.
52-53).
Consider a grammar written in Prolog style justbig enough to handle sentence (2).
(7) (Vi, j ,k)np(i, j) A v(j,k) D s(i,k)(8) (Vi, j, k, l)det(i,j) A n(j, k) A n(k,1)np(i, l)That is, if we have a noun phrasefrom "inter-word point"i to point j and a verb from j to k, then we have asentence from i to k, and similarly for rule (8).We can integrate this with our abductive frameworkby moving the various pieces of expression (3) into theserules for syntax, as follows:(9) (V i, j, k, e, x, y, p)np(i, j, y) A v(j, k, p)A p'(e, x) ^ Req(p, x) A rel(., y)s(i, k, e)That is, if we have a noun phrase from i to j referring toy and a verb from j to k denoting predicate p, if thereis an eventuality e which is the condition of p being trueof some entity x (this corresponds to call'(e, x) in (3)),if x satisfies the selectional requirement p imposes onits argument (this corresponds to person(x)), and if x issomehow related to, or coercible from, y, then there is aninterpretable sentence from i to k describing eventualitye .
(lO) (V i, j, k, l, wl, w2, z, y)det(i, j, the)A n(j, k, wl) A n(k, l, w~) A Wl(Z) A w2(y)A .n(z, y) np(i, l, y)That is, if there is the determiner "the" from i to j ,  anoun from j to k denoting predicate wl, and anothernoun from k to l denoting predicate w2, if there is az that wl is true of and a y that w2 is true of, and ifthere is an nn relation between z and y, then there is aninterpretable noun phrase from i to l denoting y.These rules incorporate the syntax in the literals likev(j, k, p), the pragmatics in the literals like p'(e, x), andthe compositional semantics in the way the pragmaticsexpressions are constructed out of the information pro-vided by the syntactic expressions.To parse with a grammar in the Prolog style, we proves(0, N) where N is the number of words in the sentence.To parse and interpret in the integrated framework, weprove (3 e)s(O, N, e).An appeal of such declarative frameworks is their us-ability for generation as well as interpretation (Shieber,1988).
Axioms (9) and (10) can be used for generation aswell.
In generation, we are given an eventuality E, andwe need to find a sentence with some number n of wordsthat describes it.
Thus, we need to prove (3 n)s(O, n, E).Whereas in interpretation it is the new information that142is assumed, in generation it is the terminal nodes, likev(j,k,p), that are assumed.
Assuming them constitutesuttering them.Translation is a matter of interpreting in the sourcelanguage (say, English) and generating in the target lan-guage (say, Japanese).
Thus, it can be characterized asproving for a sentence with N words the expression(11) (Je, n)SE(O,N,e) A sj(O,n,e)(14) (Vi,j,k,l,e,p)pp(i, j ,e) A pp(j,k,e)^ v(k, l, p) ^ p(e) D s(i, t,(15) (Vi, j ,k,x,e,part)np(i, j ,x)A particle(j, k, part) A part(z, e)pp( i, k, e)(16) (Vi, j, k, l, x, y)nP(i, j, y) A particle(j, k, no)A up(k, l, x) A no(y, x)D np(i, l, z)(!7) (Vi, j ,w,x)n( i , j ,w)  ^  w(z) D np(i,j,x)where sE is the root node of the English grammar andsj  is the root node of the Japanese.Actually, this is not quite true.
Missing in the logicalform in (3) and in the grammar of (9) and (10) is the "rel-ative mutual identifiability" relations that are encodedin the syntactic structure of sentences.
For example, theoffice in (2) should be mutually identifiable once Tokyo isidentified.
In the absence Of these conditions, the genera-tion conjunct of (11) only says to express omething trueof e, not something that will enable the hearer to iden-tify it.
Nevertheless, the: framework as it is developed sofar will allow us to address ome nontrivial problems intranslation.This point exhibits a general problem in translation,machine or human, namely, how literal a translationshould be produced.
We may think of this as a scale.At one pole is what our current formalization yields--atranslation that merely says something true about theeventuality asserted in the source sentence.
At the otherpole is a translation that translates explicitly every prop-erty that is explicit in the source sentence.
Our trans-lation below of example (2) lies somewhere in betweenthese two poles.
Ideally, the translation should be onethat will lead the hearer to the same underlying situa-tion as an interpretation.
It is not yet clear how this canbe specified formally.The Example  Trans lated.
An idiomatic transla-tion of sentence (2) ispp(i, j, e) means that there is a particle phrase from i toj with the missing argument e. part is a particle .andthe predicate it encodes.If we are going to translate between the two languages,we need axioms specifying the transfer elations.
Let ussuppose "denwa" is lexicMly anabiguous between the tele-phone instrument denwal and the calling event denwa2.This can be encoded in the two axioms(18) (Vx)denwal(z) D denwa(z)(19) (Vx)denwa2(z) D denwa(z)Lexical disambiguation occurs as a byproduct of inter-pretation in this framework, when the proof of the logicalform uses one or the other of these axioms.
"Denwa ga aru" is an idiomatic way of expressing acalling event in Japanese.
This can be expressed by theaxiom(20) (re, (Jd)  .wa2(d)A ga(d, e) A aru(e)The agent of a calling event is also its source:(21) (Ve,z)call '(e,z) D Source(~,e)We will need an axiom that coarsens the granularity ofthe source.
If John is in Tokyo when he calls, then Tokyoas well as John is the source.
(22) (V ,y, )Source( ,e) ^D Source(y, e)(12) Tokyo no office kara denwa ga ari-mashita.Tokyo's office from call Subj existedIf x works for y, then z is in y:(23) (Vx,y)work-for(z,y) D in(z,y)Let us say the logicM form is as follows:(13) aru(e) A ga(d,e) A denwa(d) A kara(o,e)A office(o) A no(t, o) A Tokyo(t)A toy grammar plus pragmatics for Japanese, corre-sponding to the grammar of (9)-(10) is as follows2:2For simplicity in this example,  we are assuming  the words ofthe  sentences are given; in practice, th is  can be carr ied down tothe level of characters.Finally, we will need axioms specifying the equivalenceof the particle "kara" with the deep case Source(24) (V y, e)Source(y, e) ~ kate(y, e)and the equivalence between the particle "no" and theimplicit relation in English compound nominals(25) (v y)n.(x, y) -= y)Note that these "transfer" axioms encode world knowl-edge (22 and 23), lexical ambiguities (18 and 19), directrelations between the two languages (20 and 25), andrelations between the languages and deep "interlingual"predicates (21 and 24).143The proof of expression (11), using the English gram-mar of (9)-(10), the knowledge base of (4)-(6), theJapanese grammar and lexicon of (14)-(19), and thetransfer axioms of (20)-(25), is shown in Figure 1.
Boxesare drawn around the expressions that need to be as-sumed, namely, the new information in the interpreta-tion and the occurrence oflexical items in the generation.The axioms occur at a variety of levels, from thevery superficial (axiom 25), to very language-pair specifictransfer ules (axiom 20), to deep relations at the inter-lingual evel (axioms 21-24).
This approach thus permitsmixing in one framework both transfer and interlingualapproaches to translation.
One can state transfer ulesbetween two languages at various levels of linguistic ab-straction, and between different levels of the respectivelanguages.
Such freedom in transfer is exactly what isneeded for translation, especially for such typologicallydissimilar languages as English and Japanese.
It is thuspossible to build a single system for translating amongmore than two languages in this framework, incorporat-ing the labor savings of interlingual approaches while al-lowing the convenient specificities of transfer approaches.We should note that other translations for sentence (2)are possible in different contexts.
Two other possibilitiesare the following:(26) Tokyo no office ga denwg shimashita.Tokyo's office Subj call did-PoliteThe Tokyo office made \[a/the\] call.
(27) Tokyo no office kara no denwa ga arimashita.Tokyo's office from's call Subj existed-PoliteThere was the call from the Tokyo office (thatwe were expecting).The difference between (12) and (26) is the speaker'sviewpoint.
The speaker takes the receiver's viewpointin (12), while it is neutral between the caller and thereceiver in (26).
(27) is a more specific version of (12)where the call is mutually identifiable.
All of (12), (26)and (27) are polite with the suffix "-masu".
Non-politevariants are also possible translations.On the other hand, in the following sentence(28) Tokyo no office kara denwa shimashita.Tokyo's office from call did-Polite\[\] made \[a/the\] call from the Tokyo office.there is a strong inference that the caller is the speaker orsomeone lse who is very salient in the current context.The use of "shimashita" ( did") in (26) and (28)indi-cates the description from a neutral point of view of anevent of some agent in the Tokyo office causing a tele-phone call to occur at the recipient's end.
This neutralpoint of view is expressed in (26).
In (28), the subjectis omitted and hence must be salient, and consequently,the sentence is told from the caller's point of view.
In(12) "ari-mashita" ( existed")is used, and since the tele-phone call exists primarily, or only, at the recipient's end,it is assumed the speaker, at least in point of view, is atthe receiver's end.Although we have not done it here, it looks as thoughthese kinds of considerations can be formalized in ourframework as well.Hard  P rob lems:  If a new approach to machinetranslation is to be compelling, it must show promiseof being able to handle some of the hard problems.
Wehave identified four especially hard problems in translat-ing between English and Japanese.1.
The lexical differences (that occur between any twolanguages).2.
Honorifics.3.
Definiteness and number.4.
The context-dependent "information structure".The last of these includes the use of "wa" versus "ga",the order of noun phrases, and the omission of argu-ments.These are the areas where one language's morphosyn-tax requires distinctions that are only implicit in thecommonsense knowledge or context in the other lan-guage.
Such problems cannot be handled by existingsentence-by-sentence translation systems without unnec-essarily complicating the representations for each lan-guage.In this short paper, we can only give the briefest indi-cation of why we think our framework will be productivein investigating the first three of these problems.Lexical Differences.
Lexical differences, where theycan be specified precisely, can be encoded axiomatically:(Vx)water(x) A cool~cold(x) ~ mizu(x)(Vx) a er(x) A wa,'m/hot(x) _= yu(x)(Vx)watch(x) ~ tokei(x) A worn(x)(V x)clock(x) ~ tokei(x) A ~worn(x)Information required for supplying Japanese numeralclassifiers can be specified similarly.
Thus the equiva-lence between the English "two trees" and the Japanese"hi hon no ki" can be captured by the axioms(V x)tree(x) D cylindrical(x)(Vx)cylindr ea(x) hon(x)Honorif ics.
Politeness is expressed in very differentways in English and Japanese.
In Japanese it is gram-maticized and lexicalized in sometimes very elaborateways in the form of honorifics.
One might think that theproblem of honorifics does not arise in most practicaltranslation tasks, such as translating computer manu-als.
English lacks honorifics and in Japanese technicalliterature they are conventionalized.
But if we are trans-lating business letters, this aspect of language becomesvery important.
It is realized in English, but in a verydifferent way.
When one is writing to one's superiors,there is, for example, much more embedding of requestsin hypotheticals.
Consider for example the following En-glish sentence and its most idiomatic translation:144Would it perhaps be possible for you to lendme your book?Go-hon o kashite-itadak-e-masu ka.Honorific-book Obj lending-receive-can-Polite?In Japanese, the object requested is preceded by the hon-orific particle "go", "itadak" is a verb used for a receiv-ing by a lower status person from a higher status person,and "masu" is a politeness ending for verbs.
In English,by contrast, the speaker embeds the request in variousmodals, "would", "perhaps", and "possible", and usesa more formal register than normal, in his choice, forexample, of "perhaps" rather than "maybe".The facts about the use of honorifics can be encodedaxiomatically, with predicates uch as HigherStatus,where this information is known.
Since all knowledge inthis framework is expressed uniformly in predicate calcu-lus axioms, it is straightforward to combine informationfrom different "knowledge sources", such as syntax andthe speech act situation, into single rules.
It is thereforerelatively easy to write axioms that, for example, restrictthe use of certain verbs, depending on the relative statusof the agent and object, or the speaker and hearer.
Forexample, "to give" is translated into the Japanese verb"kudasaru" if the giver is of higher status than the re-cipient, but into the verb "sashiageru" if the giver is oflower status.
Similarly, the grammatical fact about theuse of the suffix "-masu" and the fact about the speechact situation that speaker wishes to be polite may alsobe expressed in the same axiom.Def in i teness and Number .
The definiteness andnumber problem is illustrated by the fact that theJapanese word "ki" can be translated into "the tree" or"a tree" or "the trees" or "trees".
It is not so straight-forward to deal with this problem axiomatically.
Nev-ertheless, our framework, based as it is on deep inter-pretation and on the distinction between given and newinformation, provides us with what we need to begin toaddress the problem.
A first approximation of a methodfor translating Japanese NPs into English NPs is as fol-lows:1.
Resolve deep, i.e., find the referrent of the JapaneseNP.2.
Does the Japanese NP refer to a set of two or more?If so, translate it as a plural, otherwise as a singular.3.
Is the entity (or set) "mutually identifiable"?
If so,then translate it as a definite, otherwise as an indef-inite.
"Mutually identifiable" means first of all that the de-scription provided by the Japanese NP is mutuallyknown, and secondly that there is a single most salientsuch entity.
"Most salient" means that there are no otherequally high-ranking interpretations of the Japanese sen-tence that resolve the NP in some other way.
(Genericdefinite noun phrases are beyond the scope of this pa-per.)Conclusion.
We have sketched our solutions to thevarious problems in translation with a fairly broad brush145in this short paper.
We recognize that many details needto be worked out, and that in fact most of the work inmachine translation is in working out the details.
Butwe felt that in proposing a new formalism for translationresearch, it was important o stand back and get a viewof the forest before moving in to examine the individualtrees.Most machine translation systems today map thesource language text into a logical form that is fairlyclose to the source language text, transform it into alogical form that is fairly close to a target language text,and generate the target language text.
What is neededis first of all the possibility of doing deep interpretationwhen that is what is called for, and secondly the possibil-ity of translating from the source to the target languageat a variety of levels, from the most superficial to levelsrequiring deep interpretation and access to knowledgeabout the world, the context, and the speech act sit-uation.
This is precisely what the framework we havepresented here makes possible.Re ferences\[1\] Charniak, Eugene, and Robert Goldman, 1988.
"ALogic for Semantic Interpretation", Proceedings, 26thAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pp.
87-94, Buffalo, New York, June 1988.\[2\] Hobbs, Jerry R., Mark Stickel, Douglas Appelt, andPaul Martin, 1988.
"Interpretation as Abduction",SRI Technical Note 499, SRI International, MenloPark, California.
December 1990.\[3\] Kowalski, Robert, 1980.
The Logic of Problem.
Solv-ing, North Holland, New York.\[4\] Norvig, Peter, 1987.
"Inference in Text Understand-ing", Proceedings, AAAL87, Sixth National Confer-ence on Artificial In~eUigence, Seattle, Washington,July 1987.\[5\] Shieber, Stuart M., 1988.
"A Uniform Architecturefor Parsing and Generation", Proceedings, 12?h In-lerna~ional Conference on Computational Linguistics,pp.
614-619, Budapest, Hungary.\[6\] Stickel, Mark E. 1989.
"A Prolog Technology Theo-rem Prover: A New Exposition and Implementation inProlog", Technical Note No.
464.
Menlo Park, Calif.:SRI International.
