The Penman Natural Language ProjectSystemics -Based  Mach ine  Trans la t ionEduard HovyInformation Sciences Institute of USC4676 Admiralty WayMarina del Rey, CA 90292-6695OBJECTIVEThe development of an integrated knowledge-based machine-aided translation system basedon Systemic Linguistics.
Parts of the systemare to function as modules to be incorporatedin the MAT system being codeveloped withCMU and CRL.
Our work involves the enhance-ment of Penman's existing parsing technologyto match the level of the language generationsystem; the development of ancillary knowledgesources and software (such as bilingual lexiconsand interlingua/transfer st uctures); the main-tenance and continued istribution of the sen-tence generator; and the embedding of all theseparts into the joint system.PROGRESS AND RECENT ACCOMPLISH-MENTSThe past few months saw the beginning of anew three-year collaboration i  Machine-AidedTranslation with CMU and CRL.We have held the first meeting to discussquestions of evaluation, representational Inter-lingua, protocols for communication betweenmodules developed at the three sites, etc.
Workon the German grammar is continuing (at ourGerman partner institution) and an early ver-sion will be incorporated into the system nextmonth.
Work is underway to implement theprototype parser to full-fledged form.
Theparser is being applied, debugged, and testedon increasingly arger portions of the grammar.Since it uses classification i stead of unificationas the primary inference mechanism, the parserrequired that the Loom knowledge representa-tion language be given the ability to performclassificatory inference over disjunction.
Thishas been completed.
In addition, Loom's facil-ity to manage alternative worlds has been com-pleted and is being used for the treatment ofambiguity.In addition, we are hosting Dr. Kenneth Churchof AT&T Bell Laboratories this year.
He hascompleted the first phase in a project to au-tomatically construct large multilingual dictio-naries from parallel multilingual texts, usingtrilingual banking texts from Switzerland andthe bilingual Canadian Parliamentary Hansard.Aspects of this work is reported in this Proceed-ings.Under separate funding, members of the projecthave also been involved in the development ofa new text planner (based on Rhetorical Struc-ture Theory and extensions) to plan out coher-ent multisentence t xts.
Several visitors fromEurope are participating in this project.The maintenance and distribution of the Pen-man sentence generator continues.
The systemincorporates one of the most extensive compu-tational grammars of English for generation ithe world, being the result of over 25 person-years' effort.
Penman has been adapted toMacIntosh-II, Sun 3, TI Explorer and Symbol-ics computers, and has been distributed to over50 research sites in the US, Europe, Canada,and Australia.432
