SESS ION 5:  NATURAL LANGUAGE IJames F. AllenDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of RochesterRochester, NY 14627INTRODUCTIONThe first natural language session concentrates onissues of parsing sentences into representationstructure.
Roughly, there are two parts to thisproblem:?
finding a description of the structure of a naturallanguage such as English, namely specifying agrammar that adequately describes the structuresin the language; and?
assigning structure to sentences according to thisgrammar, namely the parsing process.This session contains papers that address certainissues from both the perspective of defining bettergrammars and developing better parsingalgorithms.Figure 1 outlines the space of problems.
There arethree particular problems that are being addressedhere.
The first, which involves work in bothgrarnrnatical development and parsing, is dealingwith Robustness.
How can we specify a system thatdoes not collapse in the face of disfluencies,unknown words, and structures and words that aresimply not known to the system.
The secondconcerns grammatical coverage.
Almost anyformalism can cover the simple sentences inEnglish, but none can handle complexconstructions such as co-ordination and ellipsisvery well.
The third issue concerns parserefficiency.
How can we develop arsing algorithmsthat can operate in a reasonable amount of time.Each of these issues are discussed below in moredetail, and the papers that concern them will beidentified.By far, one of the most pressing issues in parsing isthe issue of robustness.
In some sense, every paperin this session has a contribution to make to thisissue.
There are two issues that need to be dealt with.We need to generalize the notion of a "grammar" sothat they can describe a wider range of sentences,including many traditionally viewed as "ill-formed",and we need to develop arsing algorithms that canhandle such generalized grammars and introduceadditional techniques for handling sentences thatthe grammar still does not "accept".The first paper in this session concernsgeneralizing the notion o f  a grammar.
Bobrow,Ingria and Stallard introduce a mechanism calledMapping Units, which allow one to more conciselydescribe the possible variations in word order foundin English, and which use semantic onstraintsrather than syntactic onstraint to define the notionof "well-formedness".Jackson, Appelt, Bear, Moore and Podlozny, on theother hand, attack robustness by introducing asystem based on domain specific template matchingthat can be used to interpret sentences that may notbe parsable by a traditional grammar.
Rather thanreplacing the traditional parsing approach, theyview this as an additional mechanism that can beused when the traditional techniques fail.
Thistemplate matching approach was shown to behighly successful in the last evaluation i  the ATIStask.Weischedel, Ayuso, Bobrow, Boisen, Ingria andPalmucei also address robustness by consideringtechniques that can be used if traditional methodsfail.
In this case, they are considering techniques ofextracting phrase fragments from the text and usingsemantic techniques to attempt o interpret heutterance from the interpretation f the fragments.Joshi & Sehabes' paper present a new formalism forhandling co-ordination, this is a particularlydifficult area for grammar writers.
If co-ordination ishandled at all in a system, it is usually done by a rulethat says two constituents of the same type can beconjoined to form a new constituent of that sametype.
This runs into problems with sentences suchas (John likes) and (Bill hates) beans.
Traditionalsyntactic theories do not have constituentscorresponding to the bracketing parts of thissentence.
To handle this, some researchers such asSteedman have generalized the notion ofconstituent.
Joshi and Schabes have taken adifferent approach, they retain the traditionalclassification i to constituents, and generalize theco-ordination rule with the TAG framework,producing an elegant approach to this difficultproblem.183The structure of Language Processing Language(grammatical formalisms) (Parsing formalisms)Figure 1: The space of research issues in this sessionFinally, Moore & Dowding describe a series ofexperiments in trying to produce an efficientbottom-up arsing algorithm.
In order to handlerobustness, it seems that bottom-up parsingtechniques are needed for top-down approaches mayproduce little partial analysis for sentences that fallbeyond the scope of the grammar.
They describes aseries of techniques for speeding up bottom-uptechniques, and then introduce a new technique thatuses some prediction techniques (i.e.
some "top-down" information) that produces a considerablefaster algorithm.Summary of the DiscussionThe most important issue that came up in thediscussion was the role of limited "ad-hoe"techniques such as the template matcher and theirrole in research.
It is clear, looking at the latestevaluation results, the the systems that use templatematching in the ATIS domain are more successful.Yet most everyone is in agreement that suchtechniques are limited and that there are manyexamples where it will simply fail.
As the testdomain becomes more complicated, thesedeficiencies may eventually show through.
Butbecause these techniques are so effective onsentence fragments and ungrammatical utterances,they are clearly here to stay.
From an engineeringstandpoint, hese techniques currently ield the bestresults.
But a more interesting possibility shouldalso be considered.
These techniques are clearlyfilling a gap that current syntactically-basedformalisms can't address.
Interpretation strategiesthat are strongly driven by semantics and domainexpectations about he domain probably will alwaysplay a role in a fully robust system.As a result, an important research issue involvesfinding methods of combining the more generalsyntactic models with the domain-specific templatematching techniques.
The syntactically-basedmodels can handle the more complex relationshipsthat need to be found in some sentences, while thetemplate matching techniques can handle sentencefragments and garbled input.
I expect hat there willbe several papers on this very issue at the nextworkshop.184
