Spoken Language Recognition and UnderstandingVictor W. Zue and Lynette HirschmanSpoken Language Systems GroupLaboratory  for Computer  ScienceMassachuset ts  Inst i tute  of Technology"Cambr idge,  Massachusetts  02139OBJECT IVEThe goal of this research is to develop a spoken languagesystem that will demonstrate he usefulness of voice inputfor interactive problem solving.
The system will accept con-tinuous speech, and will handle multiple speakers withoutexplicit speaker enrollment.
Combining SUMMIT, a segment-based speech recognition system, and TINA, a probabilisticnatural anguage system, to achieve speech understanding,the system will be demonstrated in an application domainrelevant o the DoD.SUMMARY OF ACCOMPLISHMENTS:?
Developed a procedure for determining context-dependentmodels for lexical labels in the SUMMIT speech recog-nition system.
Reduced word error rate by almost afactor of two on the 1,000 word Resource Managementtask.PLANS:Improve SUMMIT recognition performance by incorpo-rating more complex context-dependent models and ex-perimenting with alternative classification algorithms.Provide tighter coupling of TINA and SUMMIT in or-der to exploit speech and natural anguage symbiosis.In particular, investigate how parse probability can beaffected by discourse context.Investigate he modelling of discourse and dialogue, in-cluding the use of error and clarification messages, toimprove both recognition performance and the interac-tive nature of spoken language systems.Collect additional speech ~nd text data during actualproblem solving for system development and evaluationin the ATIS domain.Performed experiments investigating the integration ofsyntax and semantics with acoustic evidence to improvesystem performance.
Achieved a 33% improvement onperformance score in the VOYAGER domain.?
Performed signal representation comparisons on the taskof speaker-independent vowel classification.
Demon-strated the robustness of the auditory model over othersignal representations, particularly in the presence ofnoise.?
Developed a data collection procedure within the ATISdomain, and collected nearly 3,700 spontaneously gen-erated sentences from over 100 speakers.
Performedcomparative analyses on the data collection at TI andMIT.?
Developed a preliminary version of the MIT ATIS sys-tem and participated in the common evaluation withboth speech and text input.416
