Language Processing and Commonsense R asoningRobert Wilensky, Principal InvestigatorComputer Science DivisionUniversity of California at BerkeleyBerkeley, CA 94720 U.S.A.PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project is to develop the tech-nology to construct intelligent, natural-language-capable agents.
Such agents will have natural lan-guage and reasoning capabilities that facilitate in-teraction with untrained users who are seeking in-formation pertinent o tasks in which they are en-gaged.
Emphasis is given to techniques for creatingsuch agents for new domains, focusing specificallyon portability and knowledge acquisition.
In partic-ular, we have been developing DIRC (Domain Inde-pendent Retargetable Consultant), a kind of intel-ligent, naturai-language-capable consultation shell,and a number of mechanisms for world and languageknowledge acquisition.RECENT RESULTSOur implementation f DIRC is about 80% complete.We also continued our theoretical work on finding aprobablistic basis for text inference.
Current proba,.bilistic and statistical inductive models are difficultto bias to generalize from training data; specifically,the most common methods for inducing prior prob-ability distributions - -  relative frequency priors andmaximum entropy priors - -  are inadequate.
To ad-dress this gap we propose a family of inductive meth-ods, called the gamma-continuum.
These are a pa-rameterized set of methods for generating priors froma training set incorporating an a priori abstractivebias that causes the model to make generalizations.Our driving application is probabilistic pattern com-pletion to support integrated natural anguage pars-ing and semantic interpretation, where the patternscombine lexical, syntactic, and semantic structures.We have developed an accurate, relatively low-overhead method for the disambiguation of Englishnoun homonyms using a large corpus of free text.The objective of the algorithm is the following: givenan English sentence or sentence fragment containingthe target noun, determine which of a set of pre-determined senses should be assigned to the noun.This is accomplished by checking the context sur-rounding the target noun against hat of previouslyrecorded instances, and choosing the sense for whichthe most evidence is found.
Initial results are promis-ing.We are continuing work on intelligent dictio-nary reading for natural language vocabulary ac-quisition.
In particular, we have been studyingnoun/preposition patterns and methods for acquir-ing their meanings.
In some cases, these patternsare defined directly in the dictionary.
In other cases,428the semantics of the patterns can be derived by par-tially productive relations (subregularities) betweenthe complement structures of the nouns and theverbs they are derived from.
Thus we are exploitingour work on subregularities to aid in the interpreta-tion of dictionary entries.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAROver the coming year we plan to finish DIRC, andcontinue to develop the various methods of lexicaland world knowledge acquisition we have discussedpreviously.
In addition, we are planning to use someof the technology we have developed to produce moreintelligent text retrieval methods.
Such methods areboth useful additions to our intelligent agents ap-proach to "help" systems, as well as ways of improv-ing the performance of conventional information re-trieval systems.
