Natural Language, Knowledge Representation and DiscourseJames F Allen and Lenhart K SchubertDepartment of Computer Science,University of Rochester,Rochester, NY 14627PROJECT GOALSThe principal objective of this project is to develop asystem for representing and reasoning about thediscourse context in extended man-machine dialogs.Current focus areas include the development of a generaltheory of multi-agent planning to account for thestructure of natural-language dialog, the development ofa general knowledge representation for capturing a widerange of natural language semantics, and thedevelopment of a general, error-tolerant parser andsemantic interpreter for English that can be guided bydiscourse information.
Specifically, we are developing amodel of discourse plans that includes actions such asintroducing a new topic, as well as the actions ofclarifying, correcting or acknowledging parts of theprevious dialog.
We are exploring how far the planningapproach can be extended, and how the "traditional"language components, i.e.
parsing, semanticinterpretation and discourse processing, relate to theplanning component.RECENT RESULTSThe major initiative this year is the development of aprototype NL dialog system, TRAINS, operating in asimple, but realistic task domain requiring considerableman-machine interaction.
This domain is one ofscheduling transportation actions in a complex(simulated) world where only partial knowledge of theworld state can ever be obtained.
The system'sresponsibility is assist the human in constructing,monitoring and debugging the transportation plans.
Thefirst demo of this system, operating in an initial smallsubset of the domain was produced in September 1990.We are continuing work on extending the prototypesystem.
We are completing a GPSG-style parser, whichwill show human-like preference-seeking behavior anderror tolerance.
Episodic logic, as described in last SNLPproceedings, is well developed at this point, andaddressing such issues as causal connections betweenevents, propositional ttitudes of agents (goals, beliefs,etc.
), and "defeasible" generalizations.
The process ofderiving a meaning representation from input text,which previously involved direct generation of episodicvariables at the level of initial logical form, has beenreformulated so that episodic variables are nowintroduced into the preliminary logical form in a top-down, context-dependent manner, using contextstructures called tense trees.TRAINS currently has a simple domain-plan reasoningsystem and a dialog model.
We are now making asubstantial effort to better characterize the capabilitiesneeded of the discourse components, as reported in thepaper in these proceedings.In summary, the major recent results are:?
the completion and demonstration of a prototypedialog system, including parsing, semantic andcontextual interpretation, domain plan reasoning and adiscourse model;?
an implemented detailed theory of tense and aspect,with emphasis on context-dependent, compositionalsemantics and on ease of computational realization.which addresses well-known problems in the systematicdetermination of "reference times" for tense-aspectconstructs; and?
the specification and construction of a dialog database,including the data collection, the development of ataxonomy or discourse acts, and initial prosodiclabelling.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAROur plans for the coming year include the following:?
continue to collect data and construct the dialog data-base, refining the taxonomy of discourse acts asnecessary to maintain complete coverage of the corpus;?
extend the discourse model to handle additional actsfrom the taxonomy, concentrating on the acts relating tomaintaining the shared discourse state (e.g.acknowledgements, corrections, clarifications, etc);?
develop a morphological model including acompositional semantics based on morpheme meaningin a way that addresses the alleged "bracketingparadoxes";?
implement a model of syntactic and lexicaldisarnbiguation based on information derived from thehabituation of rules, explanation-based interpretation,and semantic priming;?
perform some statistical studies on the dialog-databaseto examine the relationship between discourse acts andprosodic ues.431
