A Robust Preprocessor for Speech-Recognition SystemsGeorge Zweig, Principal InvestigatorHearing Research LaboratorySignition, Inc.P.O.
Box 1020Los Alamos, NM 87544-1020PROJECT GOALSSignifion is designing apreprocessor chip for speech-recognition systems operating in noisy environments.Current preprocessors, such as those based on movingFourier transforms or linear predictive coding, are linearand not effective when speech is embedded in high lev-els of noise.Specifically we are:?
Developing a nonlinear transmission line speechpreprocessor that accurately simulates the mechanics ofthe inner ear over the entire range of sound pressure l v-els found in speech.?
Preprocessing speech with the nonlinear trans-mission line and demonstrating that here is a substantialimprovement in the signal-to-noise ratio at the outputtaps of the line as compared with the output of conven-tional linear speech preprocessors.?
Assessing the feasibility of creating adigitaltransmission line on a chip to use as a preprocessor inthe CMU, BBN, or MIT DARPA funded speech recog-nition systems.laser" that traps and amplifies quiet sounds, thereby aid-ing in their detection and analysis.
This system wasmodeled as nonlinear transmission line with active cir-cuit elements and negative feedback.?
Developed a fourth-order Runge-Kutta methodfor solving the nonlinear transmission-line equation.?
Solved the nonlinear transmission-line equationfor a variety of simple nonlinearities using clicks andpure tones as inputs.?
Determined the form of the nonlinearity by com-paring solutions of the transmission-line equation withRhode's corresponding data.?
Showed that two frequencies interact with oneanother by affecting each other's region of amplifica-tion.
Such two-tone suppression, the auditory analogueof visual ateral inhibition, leads to formant sharpening.?
Developed a transmission-line parallel-process-ing algorithm for the Connection Machine.?
Studied the feasilibility of creating digital VLSIchip preprocessors that emulate the nonlinear transmis-sion line.
Preliminary results are encouraging.RECENT RESULTS?
Deduced the mechanics of hearing at low soundpressure l vels from measurements of basilar membranemotion.
The mechanical properties of individual sec-tions of the cochlea have been determined by examiningtheir collective response to tones of different frequency.The conclusion is that each section acts like a harmonicoscillator with negative damping.
The oscillator is con-trolled by negative feedback that drives the oscillatorwith a force proportional to the displacement of the os-cillator at an earlier time.
The time delay is approxi-mately 1.75 times the oscillator's period.
Thus, the innerear is "active," creating sound that interferes "intelli-gently" with the incoming sound.?
Showed that the inner ear acts as a "subthresholdPLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Solve the nonlinear transmission line equationsfor noisy speech and provide apreliminary qualitativeassessment of the signal processing capabilities of thenonlinear transmission line.422
