Portable Software Modules for Speech Recognition(Phase I SBIR grant from DARPA)John ShoreEntropic Research Laboratory, Inc.600 Pa. Ave.
S.E., Suite 202Washington, D.C. 20003202-547-1420shore@wrl.epi.comWe have completed Phase I of an SBIRproject that aims to develop a unix soft-ware package that will support R&D inspeech recognition.Technology transfer among speech recogni-tion groups is inhibited by the lack of conve-nient and powerful means for exchangingprograms and data.
The new Speech Recog-nition Package (SRP) will emphasize exten-sibility, robustness, and portability.
Thedesign will exploit advanced software engi-neering techniques such as abstract inter-faces, objectoriented programming, and self-describing objects.
The technology base forthe SRP includes two existing commercialsoftware packages - the Entropic SignalProcessing System (ESPS) and its waves+graphics interface.The Phase I goals were:?
to design and implement a new EntropicSignal Processing System (ESPS) pro-gram to compute the FFT-based cepstrum (with mel-warping);?
to design and implement an ESPS fea-ture file containing acoustic parametersfor speech recognition applications;- to  design and implement a prototypeacoustic feature extraction module of theSRP (including a user interface thatallows the specification of desired acous-tic parameters via screen buttons);?
to demonstrate the integration of thenew module with ESPS and waves+; and?
to design extensions and revisions ofESPS that would yield a suitable SRP.All of the Phase I technical objectives weremet.
Furthermore, we developed a suitablesoftware engineering methodology for theSRP, and we demonstrated the methodologyby designing, implementing, and testingthree low-level modules:user_messages- facilities for issuinginformation, debugging, and error mes-sages to the user, as well as for obtaininguser inputs in response to prompts;initstop facilities for initializing pro-grams and for stopping them (both nor-mal and abnormal termination); anderrors - facilities for declaring/reportingfatal and non-fatal errors, facilities forhandling fatal errors, and facilities forfunction tracing.415
