Microphone-Array Systems for Speech Recognition InputHarvey  F. S i l vermanLaboratory for Engineering Man/Machine Systems (LEMS)Division of EngineeringBrown UniversityProvidence, RI 02912Ob ject iveAn understanding of algorithmic and engineering tech-niques for the construction of a high-quality micro-phone array system for speech input to machines i thegoal of this project; it implicitly assumes that wearinga head-mounted microphone, or sitting at a fixed lo-cation in front of a table microphone is most often anunacceptable imposition for a user of a speech recog-nizer.
Rather, the array system should electronicallytrack a particular talker in a small room having othertalkers and noise sources and should provide a signalof quality comparable to that of the head-mounted mi-crophone.
In particular,the project is focused on themeasurement of small-room acoustic properties andthe derivation of underlying mathematical lgorithmsfor the acoustic field, for talker tracking and character-ization, for array layout, correlated and uncorrelatednoise elimination, and for beamforming.
Simultane-ously, digital array systems are being designed, built,and used.ApproachThe current approach is one in which many of theissues for these systems are being investigated sim-ulataneously.
We are using our version 2 system togather real data for both online and offiine experi-mentation with beamforming, location, tracking, and"talker elimination" algorithms.
At the same time,new one- and two-dimensional rrays are in design,allowing us to gather data from larger numbers ofmicrophones.
Through the use of a sound-field mea-surement robot, which is now operational, the diffi-cult acoustics properties of the small room are beingmeasured and appropriate real models are being for-mulated.
Ultimately, these models will lead to algo-rithms which, implemented in real-time, will give us arobust and useful speech recognition input system.Recent  Accompl i shmentsThe last eight-month period has seen a 100% upgradein our experimental facility.
New (reliable) hardwarefor an eight microphone linear array system has beencompleted and installed.
Using this, long intervals -say about 10 seconds (10 x 8 mikes x 40,000 bytes/sec= 3.2Mbytes) - may now be recorded for offiine algo-rithm experimentation.
I  addition, a room-size robothas been completed which allows the accurate place-ment of sources, as well as the taking of acoustic mea-surements.
We are now in the process of measuringand understanding our environment.
Also, an algo-rithm for the separation of talkers - elimination ofan intrusive talker - has been proposed and investi-gated.
To date, the algorithm works perfectly on realspeech in a simulated environment, although it failspretty badly for real speech taken from our real en-vironment.
We are on the learning curve and shouldhave some explanations for this soon.P lans  for the Coming  In terva lContinue to measure the properties of the room,transducers, and electronics using the sound-field robot so that models for various algorithmsmay be designed.Continue the implementation f new electronicsfor a 128-microphone multiple 1-D or 2-D sys-tem.
This will allow isolation of a volume inspace as well as give insight into the reverbera-tion problem for the 2-D system.Continue the development of better algorithmsfor location, tracking, beamforming, and talkerelimination.Develop simple mechanisms, (filtering etc.)
forthe current real-time array for cleaning the sig-nal for recognition.
Use these to take data fortraining and testing our talker-independent, HMMalphadigit recognizer, comparing performance tothe head-mounted microphone input case.Continue to use and gain understanding into theSRC nonlinear minimization algorithm.410
