Overview of the Fourth DARPA Speech and NaturalLanguage WorkshopPatti Price, General Chair, EditorSRI International, Menlo Park, CA 94025The goals of the DARPA programs in Spoken Language andWritten Language are advanced, and progres.s assessed by hold-ing regular workshops.
These workshops provide a mechanismfor demonstrating innovative designs and strategies, and for doc-umenting advances in the state of the art.
More important, how-ever, than providing a snapshot of the program, the workshopsalso provide a forum for the participants o share and developideas, to discuss technical issues, to outline long-term goals, todevelop strategies for shared resources, and to develop standardsfor evaluation.
The workshop is attended by a mixture ofDARPA contractors, government representatives, and non-DARPA researchers in the US and abroad, representing universi-ties and industry.This, the fourth, workshop marked a striking advance towardpractical applications by representing the first full-scale valua-tion in the ATIS (Air Travel Information System) domain, withresults that would not have been predicted a year or two ago.
Themost challenging aspeet of the ATIS domain, for both speech rec-ognition and natural language understanding, is the use of spon-taneous speech in a normal office setting from participantsengaged in a travel planning task.
Spontaneous speech is a signif-icant technical challenge because, compared to read speech ortyped text, the focus of previous work, it tends to be more casual,more variable, and contains pauses, false starts and other phe-nomena not previously observed.
Furthermore, the vocabulary isnot speeified.
Thus, the task is more challenging, but also morerealistic.
The results, as summarized in Session 2, are extremelyencouraging, and it can be argued that a paradigm shift is result-ing from the marriage of the two component technologies.The Fourth Workshop consisted of twelve technical sessions,including sessions on European speech and natural anguageresearch, benchmark reports, demos/videos, corpora nd evalua-tion, machine translation, speech, natural language, and systemsand prosody.
Included in this volume are papers representing thepresentations at the workshop, and one-page site reports for thevarious DARPA speech and natural language projects.Barry Boehra, in his opening remarks, presented an overviewof the DARPA/ISTO program, which consists of efforts in Artifi-cial Intelligence (AI), High Performance Computing, Networks,Software, and combinations of the above.
The Spoken and Writ-ten Language programs are part of the AI effort, which alsoincludes Vision and Symbolic AI.
In the language of the TotalQuality approach to management, Boehm described the "prod-uct" of DARPA/ISTO as paradigm shifts with the goals of creat-ing required capabilities and of providing a means to meet next-generation needs.
According to Boehm, the most striking recentparadigm shift in the Spoken and Written Language programshas been the "pioneering application of scientific methods to AI",i.e., explicit measures and testing and revising of hypothesesunder controlled conditions.Charles Wayne, in his opening remarks, outlined variousDARPA programs related to the Spoken Language and WrittenLanguage Programs, both of which are managed by Wayne, andwhich are the focus of this workshop.
The related programsinclude: Barbara Yoon's Neural Net program, which includes aspeech part; Tom Crystal's Tipster program; and the brand newLinguistic Data Consortium.
Wayne then emphasized Boehm'scomments about he importance of the scientific method and per-formance valuation, and the major role these have played inencouraging and measuring progress.
A chart of progress inspeech recognition as a function of time is included in Wayne'ssite report in Section 13.
The remainder of Wayne's remarks con-cemed the new Linguistics Data Consortium (LDC), which atthis writing is still awaiting final approval.
The LDC has the goalof distributing existing corpora and collecting new corpora tomeet he data needs of the community.
Current plans involve bil-lions of words of text and thousands of hours of speech.
A plan-ning committee for this program is chaired by Mark Liberman, ofthe University of Pennsylvania, who should be contacted for fur-ther information.The panelists in Session i, "Speech and Natural LanguageEfforts in the US and Abroad," included 7 representatives fromEurope.
There is a significant speech and NL effort in Europe,and much of it is similar to the DARPA effort.
There are alsoclear differences in focus, most notably a stronger focus onmulti-lingual work in Europe compared to the US.
See Section 1for an overview of these programs.As summarized by Dave Pallett in Section 2, the DARPAResource Management and ATIS Benchmark Test Poster Sessioncontained fourteen posters.
It is the results presented in this ses-sion, and the papers included here, that document and encouragemeasurable progress, and which are the core of the scientificmethod referred to by Boehm and by Wayne.Machine translation is a new direction in the DARPA program,and a session was devoted to this topic for the first time in thisseries of workshops.
Since this effort has just begun, the papersin this session, compared to others at the workshop, tend to beweighted more toward approaches than to results.
However, asdescribed in Jaime Carbonell's introduction to Session 3, animportant challenge to this machine translation program is thedevelopment of "appropriate, task-sensitive and comprehensiveevaluation criteria," so that results and progress can be measured.Immediately before Session 3, two "extra-sessional" talks werepresented: Yorick Wilks outlined a new program, the Consortiumfor Lexical Research, and George Miller proposed a techniquefor lexical disambiguation.
These papers are included in the"Additional Papers" section.Sessions 4, 8 and 9 were devoted to speech recognition topics.Session 4, chaired by Richard Lyon, considered field tests of tele-phone application compared to laboratory results, and front-endtechniques (microphone arrays and representations of acousticinformation).
Session 8, chaired by Kai-Fu Lee, focussed on newtechniques and recent advances in acoustic modeling, includingneural nets, stochastic segment modeling, and methods for deal-ing with the variability found in very large vocabularies.
Session9, chaired by Francis Kubala, considered a broad range of speechrecognition topics, including acoustic modeling, statistical an-guage modeling, search techniques and adaptation of acousticand language models to new data.Sessions 5, 7, and 11 were devoted to natural language under-standing topics.
Session 5, chaired by James Allen, concentratedon parsing issues, including robustness, flexibility, efficiency andcoverage.
A key challenge, pointed out by the discussion in thissession, is that of finding methods that combine the robustness oftemplate-based approaches (which seems to be especially neces-sary with spontaneous speech) and the coverage of complex phe-nomena possible with more syntactically-based models.
Session7, chaked by Salim Roukos, focussed on methods that involvethe use of probabilities in context-free grammars.
This sessionrepresents an important trend, or, paradigm shift: more than halfof the natural language papers at the workshop concerned someuse of probabilistie models.
This compares to about a third of theNL papers in the Second and Third Workshops, and to about 20%at the First Workshop.
The growth in number corresponds to agrowth in diversity of uses of probabilities in NL research andNL systems.
Session 11, chaired by Miteh Marcus, also repre-sented a paradigm shift: all the papers were corpus-based (asopposed to relying on the intuitions of experts), and most have atleast one statistical subcomponent.Session 6, chaired by Mad Ostendorf, included emonstrationsand videotapes of speech and natural language technology.
Dem-onstrations and videotapes are becoming increasingly importantpromotional tools for showing off the technology in a greaternumber of potential applications.
Accompanying papers wereoptional for presenters in this session, because of the difficulty oftranslating the multi-media presentations to written form.
Thesession summary describes the presentations; the people namedin the summary can be contacted for further information.Session 10, the Corpora and Evaluation Session, chaired byCliff Weinstein, consisted of two parts: one focussed on issues inNL and SLS evaluation (including a summary of initial MUC-3evaluations), and the other concerned Corpora and PerformanceEvaluation Committee reports and discussion.
The surprisingresult was reported that a group of fourteen grammarians came toagreement on a "skeletal parse" very similar to those produced inthe UPenn Treebank project.
This represents an important mile-stone in the development of techniques for NL evaluation.
Themajor issue in the second half of the session appeared to be thecreation of a corpus for benchmarking large vocabulary speech rec-ognition technology.
The key cause for discussion related to simi-larities and differences between spontaneous and read speech.
Thediscussion revealed aneed for more data on the factors in a systemthat affect the speech style of users, how these styles differ fromread speech, and how the differences may affect performance ofsystems trained on (cheaper-to-collect) read speech.Ned Neuberg chaired Session 12, the last technical session of theworkshop, which was devoted to topics that involve both speechand natural language: SLS systems issues, and prosody.
Asadvances are made in component technologies, as various integra-tion techniques evolve, as the cultural differences between thespeech and natural language communities melt into a new culture,sessions uch as this will likely dominate future workshops.In his closing remarks Charles Wayne announced that the FifthDARPA Workshop will be chaired by Miteh Marcus.
It will takeplace at Arden House, in Harriman, New York, in February of 1992.Wayne then relayed remarks from Barry Boehm expressing plea-sure in the workshop's lively interactions and our "healthy balanceof cooperation and competition."
Boehm was pleased with progresson relevant and practical problems, with quantitative r sults, andwith the balance of domain knowledge and concern with generality(components of the application of the scientific method).Thanks are due to the many people who contributed to the suc-cess of this workshop.
The workshop committee played a majorrole in the technical direction and the logistics of the workshop,thanks to: James Allen, Lyn Bates, Kai-Fu Lee, Mitch Marcus, MadOstendorf, Dave Pallett, Fernando Pereira, and especially to the twoprevious chairs Richard Stern and Victor Zue for much useful helpand advice.
The session chairs (James Allen, Jaime Carbonell,Francis Kubala, Mark Liberman, Kai-Fu Lee, Dick Lyon, MitchMarcus, Ned Neuberg, Mad Ostendorf, Dave Pallett, Salim Rou-kos, and CliffWeinstein) are to be thanked for running the sessions,moderating the discussions and for provided valuable summariesand session introductions.
I thank Chris Barker, Horacio Franco, PsiMankoski, Louise Mason and Bey Harlan for their help in the orga-nization and running of the workshop.
Special thanks to Liz Shrib-erg for peerless assistance for many months preceding theworkshop, and for her competent assistance in running the work-shop.
Special thanks also to Romina l~incher for her efficient han-dling of registration and the conference notebook, and to InaraGravitis for her professional organization of the workshop roceed-ings.
Thanks, too, to all participants for the lively discussion, and toAsilomar, to Photo and Sound for the audio/visual equipment, andto the weather.
Finally, thanks go to Charles Wayne and to BarryBoehm for their direction of the program and for making possiblethe workshop and the research program behind it.I also thank the participants who entered the cover design contest.Many interesting photos were submitted of people in various posesand states, and of beautiful landscapes at and near Asilomaz JohnGarafolo's photo of a craggy wind-bent cypress tree with tnmcatedbranches and restarts wins honorable mention, and is a nice meta-phor for spontaneous speech.
The winning cover design, however,is an original water color of the beach at Asilomar, by Chris Barker,I could say that it best represents he conference because itbest cap-tures the next paradigm shift: how to elegantly integrate the contin-uously varying (e.g., water, probabilities) with more discreteelements (e.g., rocks, words).
But I have to admit that I chose itbecause I really liked it.
Thanks, Chris.
