THE MAPPING UNIT APPROACH TO SUBCATEGORIZATIONRobert Bobrow, Robert Ingria, David StallardBBN Systems and Technologies Inc.10 Moulton Street, Mailstop 6/4CCambridge, MA 02138ABSTRACTWe present the "mapping unit" approach to representing subeategoriza-tion information, a computational framework for encoding subcategorizationinformation which has been developed and implemented for BBN's DEL-PHI system (the NL component of the HARC spoken language system).The advantage of our approach to subeategorization lies in its flexibility, aflexibility which in turn offers greater robustness of coverage with respect tounanticipated variations of a verbal argument pattern, and easier extensionof coverage to new patterns.
It handles in a quite natural way argumentorder variation, optionality of ~guments, and metonymy.INTRODUCTION"Subcategorization" refers to the constraints hat a verb (or othersyntactic head) places on the type and relative order of the phrases thatserve as its arguments and (by some definitions) the effect of theseargument phrases on the meaning of the whole clause.
It is thusan important issue for any system which seeks to understand natu-ral language, or to distinguish grammatical natural utterances fromungrammatical ones.Many past approaches have sought o represent subcategorizationdeclaratively, often using an approach based on the unification offeature values.
Such approaches as Definite Clause Grammar \[11\],Categorial Grammar \[1\], PATRqI \[13\], and lexicalized TAG \[12\] in-elude in one form or another a notion of "subcategorization frame"that specifies a sequence of complement phrases and constraints onthem.
Some have also advocated using the feature system to en-code semantic information (as for example \[9\]), and this has recentlycharacterized our own approach \[3\].
"Mapping unit" subcategorization is partly inspired by these ap-proaches, but it handles everal kinds of variation in natural languageutterances which cause difficulty for them.
These forms of variationare not in any sense marginal phenomena, but are instead repeatedlyseen in the naturally derived data for the ATIS SLS common taskdomain.
The phenomena f ll into three classes:The first is variation in argument order, as seen infly from Denver to Bostonfly to Boston from DenverSuch variation can be handled by the frame approach, but onlyat the cost of specifying one frame for each order.
Besides suchlexicaUy-specific variation of order, other sources of order variationinclude interpolation of elements traditionally considered adjuncts("What flights leave at 3 pm from Denver") and heaviness effects("Show on the screen the fares and departure times of all the flightsfrom Boston to Dallas").The second is the optionality of arguments, and the different con-sequences thereof, including zero anaphora:"what  restrictions apply?
"(= apply TO SOMETHING IN CONTEXT)default value:"Show the flights.
'"(= show the flights TO ME)existential quantification:"fly to Boston" (AT WHATEVER TIME)and independent truth-conditions:"The Rockettes kicked.
"Each verb that has optional arguments ends to have different prefer-ences for what to do with the omitted argument places, as the aboveexamples make clear.
The frame approach can handle them, but againonly at the cost of specifying multiple frames.The third and final type of variation is the metonymic coercion ofarguments, as seen below:"What wide-body jets serve dinner?
'"(= "What FLIGHTS on wide-body jets serve dinner?
"aircraft hemselves do not "serve meals")"what airlines fly to Dallas?
"(= "what airfines HAVE FLIGHTS to Dallas?
"airfines themselves don't "fly")185In both examples there is a superficial clash of types which is meantto be reconciled through the interposition of an implicit binary re-lalion between the objects having those types.
Our work postulatesa distinction between two kinds of metonymy: "referential", wherethe argument is taken to be an indirect reference to an object of theproper type, and "predicative", where only the argument slot of thepredicate is coerced and the referent is taken literally.
This distinctionwill be discussed in more detail below.Most verbs in the ATIS corpora ("fly", "arrive", etc.)
have flight,source, destination, time of day, and day of the week arguments, mostof which are not obligatory and can occur in almost any order.
Thenumber of frames necessary is combinatonally impractical, and tothis situation the phenomenon of metonyrnic coercion, which makesthe variation potentially open-ended, only provides the final blow.A fundamentally different framework from that of subcategorizationframes is needed.THE "MAPPING UNIT" INFORMATIONSTRUCTURESThe central idea of the mapping unit approach is that there areseveral different ypes of subcategorization constraints, which oughtto be represented asseparate constraints, rather than enumerating the"cartesian product" of their possible combinations in fixed patterns.The basic building block is the "mapping unit", a structure whichrepresents he constraints on a particular phrasal argument and thecontribution this argument makes to the semantics of the clause.
Map-ping units do not "know" whether they axe optional or not, or in whatorder they occur with respect to other mapping units; this informationis instead represented in the grammar and in a larger structure calleda "map", of which the mapping unit is a component.The following is an example of a mapping unit:SUBJECT(NP :trans)(FLIGHT :trans)(= FLIGHT-OF :trans)Each mapping unit has the four components shown here: a gram-matical relation (SUBJECT, DIRECT-OBJECT, OTHER-PP ete), asyntactic pattern, a type requirement, and semantic role information.The syntactic pattern is a unification pattern, and thus retains all theadvantages of being able to handle partial information that are associ-ated with unification.
The syntactic pattern (in the example just NP)also includes slots for semantic translation (":trans").The semantic type requirement (here "FLIGHT") is also enforcedby unification, but separately, so that a failure due to semantic typeclash can be distinguished from one that violates yntactic onstraints.In this way, ff the type requirement is not met, the mapping unit can bemetonymically coerced, filling the semantic role not with the originalcomplement translation but with an indefinite object related to it viaa binary relation that resolves the clash.
For example, the unit abovecould be coerced to accept an object of type AIRLINE via the binaryrelation FLIGHT-AIRLINE-OF, which maps flights to their airlines,thus handling the utterance "What airlines fly to Dallas".A final separate representation is the contribution the semantics ofthe argument makes to the semantics of the clause, which is indicatedby a semantic role constraint.
The role is set (with the equality sym-bol "=") in the case of ordinary complement arguments and restricted(with "<") in the ease of iterable temporal or locative adjunct mod-itiers ("in Harvard Square at Out of Town News next to the foreignmagazine section").
A semantic role can only be set once in anygiven clause (which of course does not exclude it from being set toa conjunctive lement), but can be rearicted arbitrarily many times.The mapping units are combined in a larger structure called a"map", of which the following is a (much reduced) example for theverb "fly":((FLY1 FLIGHT-OF FLIGHTORIG-CITY CITYDEST-CITY CITY)SUBJECT(NP :trans)(FLIGHT : trans)(= FLIGHT-OF :trans)OTHER-PP(PP (FROM) (NP :trans))(CITY : trans)(-- ORIG-CITY :trans)OTHER-PP(PP (TO) (NP :trans))(CITY : trans)(= DEST-CITY :trans)completion (AND (FILLED FLIGHT-OF DEST-CITY)(FILLED-OR-ANAPHOR ORIG-CITY) )translation (p-and (fllght-dest FLIGHT-OFDEST-CITY)(flight-orig FLIGHT-OFORIG-CITY)(fl ight-departure-timeFLIGHT-OFTIME-OF-DAY) )Every map has four components:1. a labeled-argument predicate with typed roles2.
a collection of "mapping units"3. a completion condition4.
a translation rule for the labeled-argument predicateThe labeled-argument predicate--in the example 'FLY1 ' - - i s  the rep-resentation of the verb's "meaning", and has an assigned set of typedsemantic roles which can appear in any application of the predicate(but which are not necessarily required to appear in every application).The completion condition must be satisfied by any complete clausewith the verb as head, and includes requirements on the instantiationof semantic roles.
1 In the example map, the FILLED completion pred-icate requires that the roles FLIGHT-OF and DEST-CITY be filledby a literal argument to the verb, while the FILLED-OR-ANAPHORcompletion predicate allows the role ORIG-CITY to be be implicitlyfilled by a discourse ntity.
This condition allows "What flights fly*This rexluircment, i  effect, implements the Functional Complcumcss f~onditionof I2G \[4\].186to Denver from Boston?
", "What flights fly from Boston to Denver"and "What flights fly to Denver?"
but forbids "What flights fly?
".Other completion predicates include FILLED-OR-DEFAULT, whichspecifies a defanlt value for a role, FILLED-OR-EXISTS, which gen-erates an existential quantification over the range type ff the role isunfilled, and GRAMMAR-REL-FILLED, which requires that a par-ticular grammatical relation have been assigned.
The unqualified op-tionality of a semantic role is indicated simply by leaving it out ofthe completion conditions.
2The fourth map component, the translation rule, converts labeled-argument predicate applications into ordinary logic expressions basedon the roles they instantiate.
Its separation from the rest of the mapavoids duplicate specification of the details of logical form construe-tion.This last point is important because a map can have multiple unitson the same semantic role to represent multiple syntactic realizationsof it.
For example, the utterance "fly DENVER to Boston" (meaning"fly FROM DENVER to Boston") can be aecomodated simply byadding the following unit to the map above:OTHER-NP(NP :trans)(CITY :trans)(= ORIG-CITY :trans)and the function of the translation rule is exactly the same.Any semantic role can be frilled only once, so that overgenerationfrom multiple mapping units assigning the same role ("fly Bostonfrom Denver", "fly Denver from Denver") is prevented.
3Certain grammatical relations can also be assigned only once inthe derivation of any clause.
These are the "major" grammatical re-lations ---SUBJECT, DIRECT-OBJECT, INDIRECT-OBJECT.
TheOTHER-(eat) relations can be assigned arbitrarily many times, sub-ject only to the constraint that semantic roles be filled only once.Multiple mapping units that assign the same major grammatical re-lation are also allowed, subject only to the above constraint and ofcourse to the constraint on the unique assignment of semantic roles.This is useful for handling certain types of polysemy---specifically,the semantic overloading of syntactic argument positions.For modifiers which are normally treated as adjuncts, such as tem-poral or locative modifiers, our framework provides anotion of "free"mapping units associated with distinguished roles (such as TIME-OF-DAY, etc.).
Such units do not have to be included in the map forindividual lexical items whose labeled-argument predicate translationincludes the role.
In the example map above, TIME-OF-DAY is sucha "free" mapping unit.Finally, we should point out that while the map information struc-tures can handle a considerable degree of variation, it is not necessary2Note that this assumption of optionality means that, as far as any given lexiealitern is concerned, any grammatical realization of a semantic role is optional, includ-ing SUBJECT.
However, as is well known, English, unlike Italian or Greek, requiresan overt subject in finite clauses.
This requirement is imposed by the grammar, ratherthan by individual lexical items.3This requirement, in effect, implements he Functional Consistanqt Conditionof LFG \[4\].
This requirement and the requirement that completion predicates besatisfied, in effect, implements he Theta Criterion of GB theory \[5\].for any one map to handle all the possible variations associated with averb.
A verb can have multiple maps in the case of conventional lex-ieal ambiguity, just as it can have multiple subeategorization framesin other approaches.USE OF MAPPING UNITS IN GRAMMAR ANDSEMANTIC INTERPRETATIONStandard phrase structure rules augmented with features \[11\] arein our approach further augmented with the non-constituent predicatesAVAILABLE, VP-BIND, and COMPLETE-WFF, along with the se-lector CONST1T.
The following is an example of the grammar nilethat assigns DIRECT-OBJECT, reduced to include only features ofinterest (non-constituent predicates appear in curly brackets):(VP :MAP :BINDINGS2)->(VP :MAP :BINDINGSl){AVAILABLE D IRECT-OBJECT  :MAP :BINDINGS1}(NP : TRANS){VP-BIND D IRECT-OBJECT  :MAP{CONSTIT (NP) (I) }: B INDINGS1 : B INDINGS2 }The predicate AVAILABLE takes a grammatical relation, a map, anda bindings li~, which is a list pairing mapping units with role fillers.
Itis satisfied if there is a unit in the map with that grammatical relationsuch that the semantic role of that unit is not set in the bindings list,and the grammatical relation is not assigned in the bindings list (if itis a "major" grammatical relation).The predicate VP-BIND takes a grammatical relation, a map, anentire constituent (retrieved by the function CONSTIT as seen above)an input bindings list and an output bindings list.
If it succeeds, itpreduees a new bindings list containing an additional pair of unitand filler.
It will succeed ff it finds a free unit in the map thatcan be matched with the passed-in constituent both syntactically andsemantically.
VP-BIND will have more than one solution ff it findsmultiple units with these properties, in which case there are multipleparses.
(Note that the AVAILABLE predicate is really only necessaryto prevent he parser from looking for a constituent that would onlywind up not being attachable to the VP.
)The pair of map and bindings effectively constitutes the meaningof the VP, and can be likened to a an application of lambda-expression(the map) to arguments (the bindings).
The difference is that whilethe arguments o a regular lambda-expression can either be bound allat once or in some fixed order (e.g.
through currying) the argumentsto a map are referred to by label, and can be applied in any order wep lea .Currently, the maps only provide optionality information, whilethe relative order of complements i  enforced by the grammar viagrammatical relmions.
This has the advantage that certain order-ing constraints need only be stated once, as opposed to over andover again in map entries.
An example of a rule imposing orderingconstraints i the ditransitive VP rule, which handles "Show me theflights":187(VP :HAP :BINDINGS2)->(VP :MAP :BINDINGS){AVAILABLE INDII~ECT-OBJECT :MAP :BINDINGS}{AVAILABLE DIRECT-OBJECT :MAP :BINDINGS}(NP :TRANSi){VP-BIND INDIRECT-OBJECT :MAP {CONSTIT (NP)(1)}:BINDINGS :BINDINGSl}(NP :TRANS2){VP-BIND DIRECT-OBJECT :MAP {CONSTIT (NP)(2)}:BINDINGS1 :BINDINGS2}The constraint that the subject precedes post-venal complementsis expressed by the clause-level S rule, which assigns the relationSUBJECT:(ROOT-S (QUESTION) :MAP :BINDINGS2)->(NP :TRANS)(VP :MAP :BINDINGSl){VP-BIND SUBJECT :MAP {CONSTIT (NP) (i)}:BINDINGSl :BINDINGS2}The completion conditions for the clause are enforced by the rule forthe top-most node, START.
This rule contains apredicate COMPLETE-WFF that takes a map, bindings list, and delivers an output formula:(START (QUERY :WFF))->(ROOT-S (QUESTION) :MAP :BINDINGS){COMPLETE-WFF :MAP :BINDINGS :WFF}COMPLETE-WFF enforces the completion conditions of the mapand reduces the map and bindings combination to a formula ff theseconditions are satisfied.The formula to be generated is specified by the translation rulecomponent of the map.
This translation rule can really be regardedas a kind of meaning postulate for the predicate that is associatedwith it directly.
It consists of an ordinary logic expression containingreferences to the argument labels of the predicate.
Repeated below isthe translation for the predicate 'FLY1 ':(P-AND (flight-dest FLiGHT-OF DEST-CITY)(flight-orig FLIGHT-OF ORIG-CITY)(f l ight-departure-time FLIGHT-OFTIME-OF-DAY)To generate the formula, the fillers of the argument roles are substi-tuted for these references.
The P-AND is a meta-conjunction peratorwith the property that ff any of the role references of one of its eon-juncts are unfilled, that conjunct is left out of the final formula.
Inthis way we are not required to generate an existential quantificationfor a missing argument place (as for example the departure time ofthe flight).There are certain instances in which an existential quantificationis generated, however.
If a semantic role has merely been restrictedinstead of fired, a narrow-scope existential quantification is generatedand the variable of this quantification substituted for the role referencein the translation rule.
Thus for "Flight 1 flies before 3 pm" we wouldhave:(exists t (precede t (time 3 0 pm))(fl ight-departure-tlme (fllght-no i)t))PREDICATIVE METONYMYAnother case in which narrow-scope existentials are generated isthe case of predicative metonomy, in which the semantic role in ques-tion has been type-coerced to accept an argument of a type differentfrom its restriction.
In this type of metonymy, the referent of thisargument does not change.
Instead a relation is established betweenit and an indefinite, existentially quantified object of the proper type.Thus for "Delta Airlines flies from Boston to Baltimore" we wouldhave:(exists x flight (airline-of x Delta)(and (orig-clty x boston)(dest-city x baltimore)))The distinction between referential and predicative metonymy onlybecomes visible when the actual referents of NPs are sought, as in:What airlines fly to Boston?What wide-body jets serve dinner?In the first, it is implausible that "airlines" is being used to refer tosome set of flights, since every flight is on some airline and there isno constraint.
In the second, "wide-body jets" is far more likely torefer to some set of flights, since not every flight is on a wide-bodyjet.Predicative metonymy is an essentially local phenomenon, whilereferential metonymy is an essentially global one.
Our present im-plementation assumes predicative metonymy only and allows only alimited set of binary relations.
Processing is such as to prefer attach-ments that do not require metonymy, by assigning a lower probabilityat parse-time to parses which do require it \[2\].
This is necessary toexclude an unreasonable parse of:Show flights to Denver on wide-body jets serving dinner.OTHER BENEFITSThe combination of labeled-argument predicate mad translationrule offers several benefits not yet mentioned.
One is that a givenpredicate can be shared between different lexical entries which pro-vide different syntactic realizations of it.
For example, in the ATISdomain the verbs "depart" and "originate" have very similar coremeanings, yet have semantic roles realized by different prepositions:The flight departs from Boston.The flight originates in Boston.
*The flight departs in Boston.188The words are not synonyms in the normal sense that one can besubstituted for the other in such a way as to preserve grammatieality.But their common semantic ontent can be represented.Another advantage is that a denotational semantics with optional-ity is implemented without requiring Davidsonian-style event quan-tifications \[7\].
While event objects make sense in some contexts,having an existontial quantification over events for every verb is fre-quently inconvienent in further processing.
Certainly it is so in theATIS domain, where the chief semantic outcome of clauses eems tobe a set of predications on attributes of flight-individuals and therereally are no "events" as such at all.
Event quanfifieations are not pre-cluded, however--they could be produced with a different translationrale schema.COMPARISON WITH OTHER WORKOur treatment of the syntactic aspects of subeategofization s mostlike that of PATR-II \[13\].
Both PATR-II and the mapping units ap-proach use recursive VPs, with each level of VP structure, in effect,"peeling off" a single constituent of the head verb's complement list.
4A major difference between the two approaches i that the PATR-IIsystem of subcategofization is essentially limited to popping con-stituents off the subcategorization list, in fixed order, requiring a sep-arate subeategorizatlon ist for each variation in order.
Our approachallows complements to be found in whatever order the grammar willallow them.
In this respect, it is more like the UD system \[8\], whichhas an operator for "non-deterministic extraction from arbitrary listpositions".
5 However, our system does not literally remove unitsfrom the map, but rather simply marks them as no longer availablefor binding.
Moreover, the mechanism of allowing multiple syntacticrealizations for a given semantic relation in a single representation fcomplement s ructure is, to our knowledge, unique.Related work on the semantic aspects of argument optionality hasbeen reported by Palmer \[10\], \[6\].
Our work differs from this mainlyin the tighter coupling of syntax and semantics during processing andthe use of recursive VP structures, which Potentially allows for an el-egant solution of cases of nun-consituent conjunction, not addressedin the other work.
Our system also has a finer grained treatment ofoptionality; whereas \[10\] and \[6\] divide argument roles into OBLIG-ATORY, ESSENTIAL, and NON-ESSENTIAL roles, we provide aricher set of possibilities.
The dccoupling of syntactic realizationsof a role in a mapping unit from the semantic typing constraints onthat role, to allow for different types of metonymie extension is also adistinction.
On the other hand, the use of named thematic or semanticroles which cut across particular predicates in \[10\] and \[6\] might pro-vide a more compact form for capturing linguistic generalizations, tothe extent hat such a theory of thematic relations is well-motivated.CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORKWe have presented a framework for handling three unruly phe-nomena: argument-order variation, optionality, and metonymy.
Yetthis framework is simple and does not sacrifice formal goals such asdeclarativeness.We are currently working on extending the mapping unit to otherparts of speech such as nouns and adjectives.
We are also working4Our approach allows morn than a single complement constituent to appear at agiven level, however, as the ditransitive VP rule above shows.~Other systems which have a similar mechanism include the Lilog system of IBMGermany and the MLMo machine translation system.on more lexically-based ways to encode order, perhaps by a systemof precedence among mapping units.Other furore work will include referential metonymy, the inter-action of metonymy with anaphora, and non-constituent conjunctionphenomena.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe work repoRed here was supported by the Advanced ResearchProjects Agency and was monitored by the Office of Naval Researchunder Contract No.
N00014-89-C-0008.
The views and conclusionscontained in this document are those of the authors and should notbe interpreted as necessarily representing the official policies, eitherexpressed or implied, of the Defense Advanced Research ProjectsAgency or the United States Government.REFERENCES\[1\] Ades, A. E. and Steedman, M. J.
"On the Order of Words", Linguisticsand Philosophy 44.3, 1982, pp.
517-558.\[2\] Bobrow, R. "Statistical Agenda Parsing" Proceedings Speech and Nat-ural Language Workshop February 1991 (this volume), Morgan Kauf-mann Publishers, Inc., San Mateo, CA, 1991.\[3\] Bobrow, R., Ingria, IL and Stallard, D. "Syntactic and Semantic Knowl-edge in the DELPHI Unification CGrsanmar".
Proceedings Speech andNatural Language Workshop June 1990, Morgan Kanfmann Publishers,Inc., San Matvo, CA, 1990, pp.
230--236.\[4\] Bresnan, L The Mental Representation fGrammatical Relations, TheMIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1982.\[5\] Chomsky, N. (1981) Lectures on Government and Binding, Foils Pub-lications, Dordrecht, Holland.\[6\] Dalai, D. A., Palmer, M. S., and Passonneau, R. J.
"Nominalizations inPUNDIT".
25th Annual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics: Proceedings of the Conference, Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, Morristown, NJ, 1987, pp.
131-137.\[7\] Davidson, D. "The Logical Form of Action Sentences".
In N.
Rescher,ed., The Logic of Decision and Action, University of Pittsburgh Press,PiRsborgh, 1967, pp.
81-95.\[8\] Johnson, R. and Rosner, M. "A rich environment for experimentationwith unification grammars".
Fourth Conference of the European Chap-ter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Association forComputational Linguistics, Morristown, NJ, 1989, pp.
182-189.\[9\] Moore, R. C. "Unification-Based Semantic Interpretation".
27th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Proceedingsof the Conference, Association for Computational Linguistics, Morris-town, NJ, 1989, pp.
33-41.\[113\] Palmer, M. S. Driving Semantics for a Limited Domain.
Doctoral Dis-sertation, University of Edinburgh, 1983.\[11\] Pereira, F. C. N. and Warren, D. H. D. "Definite Clause Grammars forLanguage Analysis--A Survey of the Formalism and a Comparisonwith Augmented Transition Networks".
Artificial Intelligence 13, 1980,pp.
231-278.\[12\] Schabcs, Y., Abcille, A., and Joshi, A. K~ "Parsing Strategies with'Lexicalized' Grammars': Application to Tree Adjoining Grammars".COLING Budapest: PROCEEDINGS of the 12th International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics, Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Morristown, NI, 1988, pp.
578--583.\[13\] Shieber, S. M. An Introduction to Unification-Based Approaches toGrammar.
Center for the Study of Language and Information, Stan-ford, CA, 1986.189
