Evaluating the Use of Prosodic Informationin Speech Recognition and UnderstandingMarl Ostendorf Patti PriceBoston University SRI InternationalBoston, MA 02215 Menlo Park, CA 94025PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project is to investigate the use of differ-ent levels of prosodic information in speech recognitionand understanding.
In particular, the current focus ofthe work is the use of prosodic phrase boundary infor-mation in parsing.
The research involves determining arepresentation of prosodic information suitable for usein a speech understanding system, developing reliablealgorithms for detection of the prosodic cues in speech,investigating architectures for integrating prosodic cuesin a parser, and evaluating the potential improvementsof prosody in the context of the SRI Spoken LanguageSystem.
This research is sponsored jointly by DARPAand NSF.
?RECENT RESULTS?
Developed an algorithm for recognizing intonationalcues (pitch accents or prominences and boundarytones) using a modified version of our previously de- ?veloped break detection algorithm.
Improved breakdetection performance by including probability ofboundary tone as an additional feature.
??
Extended previous work in analysis/synthesis parsescoring by introducing a new probabilistic scot- .ing technique that uses a decision tree to pre-dict prosodic phrase breaks.
Disambiguation re-sults show that this automatically trainable synthe-sis technique yields performance comparable to therule-based synthesis algorithms previously investi-gated, even though the syntactic structures repre-sented in the training corpus were quite different *from those in the testing corpus.?
Investigated, in conjunction with Sl:tI's SLS project,acoustic attributes of hypothesized repair locations,finding that relative durations of two repeated wordsand existence and duration of an intervening pausecan be reliable cues to repairs.?
Discovered that pause fillers in spontaneous speechwere a frequent source of recognition errors, ana-lyzed acoustic ues to pause fillers, and found a sig-nificant difference between the pitch of a pause fillerand that of its local context, suggesting a simple de-tection algorithm.Played a major role in organizing and leadinga workshop aimed at developing a common coreprosodic transcription standard; the impendingavailability of large corpora of data including syn-tactic annotations makes the need for agreement onprosodic standards especially critical.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAREvaluate the break index and prominence recogni-tion algorithms on paragraphs of speech (as opposedto sentences) and on spontaneous speech as opposedto read speech.
Investigate new acoustic features forimproving recognition results.Extend parse scoring algorithm to include promi-nence information making use of tree-based promi-nence prediction algorithms.Utilize the parse scoring algorithm in speech under-standing.Continue study of acoustic ues to repairs and otherspontaneous speech effects; specifically, analyze theproportion of such events in different SLS configu-rations, the effect of such events on types of errorsin different SLS configurations, and the role of into-nation and duration patterns in their detection.Coordinate project with research on prosody atIPO, Eindhoven; this laboratory is the research cen-ter for the largest group in the world focussed inprosody.
Dr. Price will spend three months at thisinstitution working on the current project half-time.466
