IN-DEPTH KNOWLEDGE-BASEDMACHINE TRANSLATIONEduard Hovy, Principal InvestigatorInformation Sciences InstituteUniversity of Southern California4676 Admiralty WayMarina del Rey, CA 90292-6695PROJECT GOALSThe development of ap integrated knowledge-basedmachine-aided translation system called PANGLOSS incollaboration with the Center for Machine 'Ikanslation(CMT) at CMU and the Computing Research Labora-tory (CRL) at New Mexico State University.
The IS1part of the collaboration is focused initially on provid-ing the system's output capabilities, primarily in Englishand then in other languages, including (some of) Ger-man, Chinese, and Japanese.
Additional tasks are themaintenance and continued distribution of the Penmansentence generator and text planner and the develop-ment of ancillary knowledge sources and software.RECENT RESULTSMembers of the project have participated in several as-pects of the design and setting up of PANGLOSS and inthe overall MT effort.
Three major efforts are:1.
Incorporation of language generation: In thefirst-year version of PANGLOSS, the ULTRA analyzer ofCRL is linked to the Penman generator, both being em-bedded in the Translator's Workstation (TWS) that in-cludes several browsing, editing, and other user facili-ties.
A process for converting ULTRA output to Penmaninput has been developed and is being debugged.
Ap-proximately 80 ULTRA output sentences (each with ap-proximately 13 variant parses) have been used as testsuite; at present the conversion+Penman system pro-duces roughly 25% correct throughput, 35% identifiableerrors (which will be trapped and sent to the user forcorrection), 15% Penman grammar shortcomings, and25% miscellaneous problems, mostly involving represen-tational inconsistencies.
Current work is focusing onextending the grammar, developing ways of interactingwith the user, and ironing out the inconsistencies.
Also,work on acquiring the system substrate to support PAN-GLOSS at IS1 has been performed; including software ac-quisition and various licensing requirements.2.
Interlingua construction: The PANGLOSS Inter-lingua Committee recently began constructing an Inter-lingua, using as starting point the terminologies devel-oped by the three partners, namely ONTOS, the ontologydeveloped at the CMT, IR, the Intermediate Representa-tion terminology used at the CRL, and the Penman Up-per Model.
Both ONTOS and IR have already been usedto support Interlingual machine translation, while vari-ants of the Upper Model suited for German, Japanese,and Chinese are under construction at GMD/IPSI (Ger-many) and the University of Sydney (Australia).
An ini-tial specification of the Interlingua has been developed.A set of issues to be addressed next, including the no-tation and the substrate for the Interlingua, has beendrawn up.3.
Committee work: An overall MT CoordinatingCommittee (MTCC) has been formed and a set of spe-cialized committees with specific tasks have been cre-ated under its supervision.
The first MTCC meetingwill be held at IBM Yorktown Heights on February 26-27.
The machine translation effort's Evaluation Com-mittee has produced three documents, one outlining thegeneral methodology of evaluation, one describing theparticulars of the upcoming MT system evaluation, andone describing the particulars of the Dry Run evaluationheld of the IBM system CANDIDE in February.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARVersion Alpha of PANGLOSS will be completed, tested,and evaluated.
An early test with real-world users willtake place in March.The aspects in which Penman needs strengthening tohandle the needs of the domain will be addressed, in-cluding portions of the grammar and the lexicon.
Alexicon of at least 5,000 words will be in place in Pen-man by June.
The kinds of human assistance possibleduring input preparation and generation will be workedout in detail and incorporated in the TWS.
Penman andits ancillary resources will be embedded into the TWS.The first version PANGLOSS interlingua, including an ini-tial domain model, will be put in place.The MT system evaluation will be organized and takeplace around end-April or mid-May.
