Robust Continuous Speech Recognition TechnologyProgram Summary*Clifford J. Weinstein and Douglas B. Paul, Principal InvestigatorsLincoln Laboratory, M.I.T.Lexington, MA 02173-9108Program GoalsThe major objective of this program is to de-velop and demonstrate robust, high-performance con-tinuous peech recognition (CSR) techniques and sys-tems focused on applications in spoken language sys-tems (SLS).
A key supporting objective is to de-velop techniques for integration of CSR and naturallanguage processing (NLP) systems in SLS applica-tions.
The CSR techniques are based on a continuous-observation hidden Markov model (HMM) approach,using tied Ganssian mixtures to model the speech pa-rameters.
A stack-decoder control structure is be-ing developed and utilized, both for efficient large-vocabulary recognition, and to facilitate integrationof CSR and NLP systems.BackgroundThe Lincoln program began with a focus onimproving speaker stress robustness for the fighteraircraft environment.
A robust HMM isolated-wordrecognition (IWR) system was developed with veryhigh performance under stress conditions.
The ro-bust HMM system has since been adapted and ex-tended to large vocabulary CSR.
This effort has in-cluded the development of a number of new modelingand recognition techniques, and the resulting tied-mixture HMM CSR system achieved state-of-the-artperformance for both speaker-dependent (SD) andspeaker-independent (SI) recognition on the DARPAResource Management (RM) database.
Current workfocuses on extension to the new Wall Street Jour-nal (WSJ) CSR corpus, with vocabularies of 5,000-20,000 words.
*This work was sponsored by the Defense Advanced Re-search Projects Agency.
The views expressed are those of theauthors and do not reflect the official policy or position of theU.S.
Government.Recent AccomplishmentsRecent accomplishments include: (1) major con-tributions to the design of the WSJ corpus, and devel-opment and implementation f the necessary text pre-processing system to make text and language mod-els available to recording sites and testing sites; (2)development of an efficient stack decoder algorithmfor large-vocabulary CSR; (3) development of fastmatch techniques to expedite large-vocabulary recog-nition; and (4) application of the tied-mixture, stack-decoder-based HMM CSR, with fast-match to obtaina first set of results on the new WSJ corpus.PlansPlans for the current program include: (1) exten-sive development and test of large-vocabulary CSRtechniques of the new CSR corpus; (2) continued e-velopment of the tied-mixture HMM CSR system, in-cluding adaptive training and recognition techniques,mixture weight smoothing, and improved speaker-independent techniques; (3) further development ofthe stack-decoder-based HMM, for integration withthe CSR/NLP interface system and with NLP sys-tems developed at other sites; and (4) exploration ofadvanced acoustic modeling techniques for improvedrecognition.476
