CSR DATA COLLECTION PILOTDenise Danielson, Project LeaderJared Bernstein, Principal InvestigatorSRI InternationalMenlo Park, California 94025PROJECT GOALSThe objective of the CSR Corpus Development is to collectand deliver a large corpus of continuous speech data to sup-port DARPA research efforts in continuous speech recogni-tion (CSR).
The CSR corpus is intended to be taskindependent and to consist of speech that is similar to thatwhich would be expected from eventual users of real worldCSR systems.
Toward these ends, the current pilot collec-tion effort was designed to minimize controls on vocabu-lary, background noise, and microphones.
CSR is alsodesigned to incorporate spontaneous speech.SRI was one of three sites to participate in a CSR pilot col-lection effort in 1991.
The primary goals of the pilot effortwere to:?
establish tools and procedures for CSR collection,?
experiment with various collection methods, includ-ing those for spontaneous speech,?
collect enough data for CSR tests in February 1992,?
estimate the cost and test the suitability of the databefore proceeding with a full-scale CSR corpusRECENT RESULTSBetween October and December 1991, SRI completed itsportion of the pilot CSR Corpus collection.
The full designof the pilot CSR data collection is described in the paper"CSR Corpus Development" by George Doddington thatappears in this volume, In SRI's portion of the task, a totalof 13160 sentences from 36 speakers were collected, tran-scribed and delivered to NIST.
This includes 1280 sponta-neously produced sentences from 12 different speakers.All data was collected simultaneously through two micro-phones.
One microphone, a Sennheiser headset-mountedmicrophone, remained constant throughout all data collec-tion.
The second microphone varied across speakers andcollection sessions.
Depending on the type of data beingcollected, the second microphone was selected from one oftwo disjoint sets of microphones designated as either train-ing or test.
Thus, SRI's part of the CSR pilot corpus sup-ports the development of "microphone independent"speech recognition systems.
SRI's recordings take about6.4 GBytes of storage for the two microphone channels, orabout 3.2 GBytes per channel.In each cell of the overall design, 50% of the subjects weremale and 50% female.
Half of the data in each conditionincludes verbalized punctuation, and half is without verbal-ized punctuation.SRI has performed initial evaluations of the costs of col-lecting spontaneous speech data versus read speech data.
Interms of subject ime, spontaneous speech takes two tothree times as long to produce as read speech.
Because ofthe additional costs for transcription and materials prepara-tion, the ratio in terms of data collection personnel time iscloser to 6:1.
In addition, since the task of creating and dic-tating news-style stories pontaneously requires pecializedskills, cost per hour of subject time can be higher.SRI is currently in the process of collecting an additionalset of 8 test speakers.
The current work includes experi-mentation with different materials and instructions for elic-iting spontaneous speech.
The goal of these xperiments isto identify spontaneous collection methods that are rela-tively easy for the subject while yielding data that is trulyspontaneous and useful for the system development efforts.PLANS FOR TIlE COMING YEARWork with DARPA and NIST to identify anychanges necessary inthe data collection proceduresused during the pilot study.?
Proceed with a larger scale data collection effort.Perform more extensive analyses of the cost/benefitratio of spontaneous speech data versus read speechdata.
Assuming these analyses show spontaneousspeech to be cost effective in the long nm, collect alarger proportion of spontaneous speech.Continue to experiment with various methods ofelicifing spontaneofls speech and identify thosemethods most appropriate for meeting the ultimategoals of the CSR corpus development project.485
