Overview of theFifth DARPA Speech and Natural  Language WorkshopMitchell P. Marcus, General Chair, EditorDepartment  of Computer  and Informat ion ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhi ladelphia,  PA 191041.
THE DARPA SPEECH AND NLWORKSHOPSThis volume presents revised versions of papers pre-sented at the Fifth DARPA Speech and Natural Lan-guage Workshop, held in February 1992 at the ArdenHouse Conference Center in Harriman, NY.
This seriesof workshops provides a forum where researchers can ex-change information about very recent echnical progressin an informal, highly interactive setting.
Topics of in-terest include speech recognition, speech understanding,text understanding, and machine translation.The majority of the participants receive funding underDARPA's Spoken Language or Written Language pro-grams, which are the focus of the workshops.
Other par-ticipants include researchers not funded by DARPA whovoluntarily participate in these programs or in relatedbenchmark evaluations; government researchers and con-sumers of these research results; and, on a rotating ba-sis, selected visitors from both inside and outside theUS.
The participants in thir ongoing series of workshopsform a tightly-coupled research community in which re-sults and research breakthroughs are typically evaluated,disseminated, and exploited with very short latency.Aspects of these meetings include: technical presenta-tions of both new research results and the ongoing evo-lutionary development of large software systems, oftenmonths before this research is reported elsewhere; thepresentation f results of a variety of carefully standard-ized system evaluations; discussion of the future direc-tion of the various DARPA programs in light of recentprogress; and much discussion of ongoing work betweenindividual researchers.To facilitate the timeliness of the work presented at Ar-den House, abstracts were due less than two months be-fore the workshop, with accepted papers due less thantwo weeks before the workshop.
A looseleaf proceedingswas distributed at the workshop itself, with these revisedversions ubmitted a month after.2.
THE 1992 WORKSHOPFor a sense of the workshop as a whole, the reader isencouraged to first read the overview which precedesthe collected papers from each of the sessions.
Theseoverviews not only summarize the key points in each setof papers, but also serve to give a perspective on thelarger research arena in which this work is done.Technical highlights of the 1992 Workshop include (a)the continuing steep slope of improvement of spokenlanguage systems working within the Air Travel Infor-mation System (ATIS) domain, (b) the clear payoff ofvery large coordinated inter-site data collection efforts,(c) beginning steps towards very large vocabulary speechrecognition systems, and (d) the continuing explosion ofresearch results in statistical natural anguage process-ing.Over the past five years, error rates for benchmarkspeech recognition tasks have dropped by a factor of twoto three every year.
This year was no exception, withthe best system word error rates for ATIS demonstra-tion systems down to about 6% on reserved test materialtaken from spontaneously recorded natural speech, somewith disfluencies.The centrality of data to the efforts of this research com-munity was underscored by the efforts of the many sitesof the Multi-Site Data Collection Working group (alsoknown as MADCOW).
This group was able to collectover 10,000 utterances with transcriptions within theATIS domain as of the February workshop.
The trainingand test sets for the ATIS benchmarks came from thiscorpus.Going well beyond the limits of the ATIS task, this year'sworkshop saw preliminary results from the first of a newgeneration of very large vocabulary speech recognitionsystems, trained and tested on read material taken fromthe Wall Street Journal.
As a first, preliminary effort,the vocabulary for this initial test was limited to 5000words.
Again, the data was collected by a coordinatedeffort involving multiple sites.The paradigm shift in natural anguage processing to-wards empirical, corpus based methods was nowhereclearer than at this workshop.
Eleven papers were pre-sented in one marathon four-hour session on statisticallanguage modelling and statistical natural language pro-cessing.
Other sessions on the lexicon and on informa-tion retrieval were also dominated by papers in this area.The percentage of natural anguage papers in this newparadigm has increased from 20% in the first workshopto 30% in the second and third to 50% last year, to above90% this year.
This workshop also saw the first entiresession in the workshop series devoted to research whichis the beginning of a new fusion of techniques from bothnatural anguage processing and knowledge representa-tion with classic information retrieval technologies.Several important events at the workshop itself are ei-ther not reflected in these proceedings by either papersor represented only by session summaries.
The work-shop began and ended with comments from governmentrepresentives.
Eric Mettala opened the workshop bypresenting DARPA's view of the future role of Speechand NLP technologies, and a picture of future fundingpatterns within DARPA.
The most telling observation:all future systems now under consideration by the U.S.Army have a requirement for speech recognition.
Theworkshop concluded with a panel of government person-nel, each commenting on the direction of the workshop.Chaired and organized by Charles Wayne, the speakerswere YT Chien, NSF; John Prange, NSA; Susan Chip-man, ONR; Tim Anderson, Armstrong Laboratory; andJordan Cohen, IDA.
A session chaired by Mark Liber-man discussed whether the time has arrived for efforts toproduce a common lexicon and/or grammar for spokenand written language systems.
Both conservative andfairly ambitious proposals were presented, with fairlystrong consensus that at least initial steps toward fullscale efforts should be taken in the near future.A very successful demo and video session, chaired byVictor Zue, presented 10 demos, almost all of which werepresented live.
The first row of the conference hall wasfilled with workstations, each of which performed in turn.The real time or near-real time response of many of thesystems, combined with high understanding rates wasmost inpressive.Many of these systems were also available for one-on-onedemos throughout the meeting.
System performance hasnow increased to a level that this speaker was able to getnearly perfect performance from at least one system inessentially real time for careful speech.3.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis workshop was the result of the hard work of manypeople.
The Workshop Planning Committee, MadelineBates, Julia Hirschberg, Lynette Hirschman, David Pal-lett, Patti Price, Salim Roukos, Richard Stern and Clif-ford Weinstein and myself, was responsible for reviewingand selecting papers for presentation, aswell as shapingother events in the program, and for providing crucialinput on many policy issues.
Patti Price, as previousgeneral chair, gave much good advice.
Victor Zue, aschair for the demonstration a d video session, assistedby Mike Phillips, did a wonderful job of organizing andarranging technical facilities for that session, a very dif-ficult task.
Rich Stern, as chair of the Workshop Co-ordinating Committee, provided constant guidance andadvice, and put in much effort to insure that the needsof all parts of the community were met.Responsible for the smooth and flawless running of theworkshop itself was Vicky Palay, who served as workshopcoordinator, egistrar, compiler of conference notebookswithin a three day span.
Vicky handled the thousand-and-one details of such a workshop with constant graceand flawless competence.
In addition to Victor andVicky, almost the entire MIT group (Phillips, Seneff,Glass, Goodine, Polifroni and Goddeau) helped with thetransfer of two vans worth of equipment for the demos.David Goodine was primarily responsible for setting upthe public use Mac/printer.Finally, the role of Charles Wayne in shaping the direc-tion both of the research behind this workshop and of thenature of this workshop itself deserves trong acknowl-edgement.
This workshop, in the view of many partic-ipants, has become one of a handful of key forums forthe presentation f first rank work in speech recognition,natural anguage processing, and perhaps the strongestsetting for the presentation f work in statistical naturallanguage processing.4
