SESS ION 8B: ROBUST SPEECH PROCESSINGJordan R. Cohen, ChairCenter  for Communicat ions  ResearchThanet  RoadPr inceton ,  N J  08540ABSTRACTFour papers are briefly reviewed.1.
The  PapersThis session consists of two types of papers.
The firsttwo, "Multiple approaches to robust speech recognition"and "Reduced channel dependence for speech recogni-tion" present computational methods for minimizing theacoustic and speaker differences in particular ecogniz-ers.
The third paper, " Experimental results for base-line speech recognition performance ..." presents pre-liminary experiments in using an array of microphonesfor acoustic focusing, while the last, Phonetic classi-fication on wide-band and telephone quality speech",presents a baseline phonetic recognition result for tele-phone TIMIT.In the first paper, the Carnegie Mellon gang define sev-eral algorithms for jointly compensating for noise andlinear filtering in incoming data.
Codeword DependentCepstral Normalization was found to be advantageouswhen training with one microphone and testing with an-other.
It was also helpful when used with data from amicrophone array.
Results were less clear when the al-gorithm was applied to an auditory front end, but workis continuing.The SRI paper introduced a long-term filtering algo-rithm to adjust for acoustic differences between trainingand test.
The best results were found using highpassfiltering on channel energies in conjunction with simplenoise removal.
It was interesting to note that, even afterthese algorithms, simultaneous recordings through dif-ferent microphones were quite different.The Brown paper reports early results on a microphonebeam-steering array.
They report a series of interest-ing problems, some solved (microphone mounting), andsome not (ceiling reflections).
The search for an effectivearray continues.Finally, the NYNEX paper reports on comparative pho-netic recognition of TIMIT vs NTIMIT.
The telephoneversion of TIMIT appears to induce 1.3 times as manyerrors as TIMIT, with a frequency distribution of errorswhich is expected from the inherent power of the under-lying phonemes.
This work is offered as a benchmarkagainst which to measure future systems.2.
D iscuss ionDiscussion was congenial and to the point.
More workin this area will appear in future meetings.273
