SESSION 13: PROSODYPatti Price 1 and Julia Hirschberg 21SRI International, 333 Ravenswood Avenue, EJ 133, Menlo Park, CA 94306.2AT&T Bell Laboratories, 600 Mountain Avenue, Murray Hill, NJ 07974ABSTRACTTho aim of this introductory s~tion is to set the context for Ses-sion 13: Prosody.
It will do so by defining some basic terms, byconsidering the status of current research on prosody, and by out-lining the papers in the session and how they contribute to andcomplement previous work in the area.1.
What is Prosody?Prosody, perceptually, can be thought of as the relative tem-poral groupings of words and the relative prominence ofcertain syllables within these groupings.
Acoustic orre-lates of prosody include patterns of relative duration of seg-ments and of silences, fundamental frequency, amplitude,and "vowel color."
Phonological variation is related in partto prosodic structure and is sometimes also considered partof prosody.
The bulk of the research on prosody, in the liter-ature as well as in this session, is focused on the primaryacoustic orrelates of prosody, namely patterns of funda-mental frequency and duration.It is appropriate oend this workshop on this topic, sinceprosody, perhaps more than any other area in spoken lan-guage systems, requires the involvement ofboth speechand natural language.
Prosody can provide for natural lan-guage a source of acoustic information bearing on higherlinguistic levels.
Further, this information is largely unrep-resented in text.
One of the questions addressed in this ses-sion is: How can the acoustic attributes of prosody betransmitted not just to a speech recognizer (which is used tointerpreting acoustic information), but also to natural lan-guage understanding components?
The temporal (group-ing) aspect of prosody appears to be related to the syntacticstructure of an utterance, and one could imagine acompo-nent that would pass temporal information to a parser.
Theprominence aspect of prosody appears to be related to thesemantic and discourse/pragmatic s ructure, and one couldimagine a component that would pass prominence informa-tion to these levels.
However, both grouping and promi-nence relationships are involved to some extent in alllinguistic levels, and a more complex architecture isrequired.Prosody is an area ripe for further esearch since it requiresthe integration of information from all levels, from theacoustics through morphology, syntax, semantics and prag-matics.
Few, if any, researchers are comfortable in all theseareas, and the work requires collaboration across traditionaldivisions among disciplines, as these papers how.2.
HOW WELL DOES THIS SESSIONREPRESENT THE RESEARCH ONPROSODY?In this session, in contrast to historical trends in prosodyresearch, there is a focus on using statistical and corpus-based techniques.
Further, in this session, these techniquesare used not only to model prosody, but also to acquireinformation about prosody and its role in language.
Thetraditional literature on prosody, while lacking this statisti-cal aspect, does include much that is not covered in thissession.
Much previous prosody research as been fromtwo rather different traditions, neither of which overlapsgreatly with the content of this session.
The two traditionsare (1) speech science, which has focused on the search foracoustic orrelates of linguistic entities (such as stress andaccent) in laboratory conditions, and (2) linguistics, whichhas produced a volume of intuitive, anecdotal ttributionsof prosody's role in higher linguistic levels, such as prag-matics and discourse.Growing interest in prosody research, due in part to thedemands of the recent merging of speech and natural lan-guage, has been somewhat limited by the lack of an agreedupon convention for prosodic notation.
However, as men-tioned in the paper in this session by Silverman, this issueis currently being addressed, with quite encouragingresults.
A draft notation was developed last fall by a groupof prosody researchers from a number of academic andindustrial research laboratories.
The draft notation is cur-rently being evaluated, and a second meeting of the groupwill occur in early April to refine the system and to plan forfuture needs.415In brief, the prosody notation project consists of researchersmeeting periodically and exchanging volumes of email.The goal of the group is to define a "core" notational sys-tem with which spoken English can be transcribed quicklyand with good agreement across labelers.
Agreeing on astandard with these characteristics means that large corporacould be labeled with prosodic and other linguistic nota-tions (e.g., those of the Penn Treebank).
It also means thatwhat would otherwise have been independent corpora cannow be shared, and that researchers can much more easilytest hypotheses on new and larger corpora.
The existence oflarge corpora will also encourage the further developmentof statistical methods for modeling and for acquiringknowledge.
The notion of a "core" system is meant oimply that different researchers can add different details tothe "core," and thus reap the benefits of the shared portionwhile not limiting research to those aspects that all canagree on now.It is hoped that the existence of large labeled corpora canhelp bridge the traditional conflict between using dam inwhich known sources of variability are strictly controlled(e.g., readings of isolated utterances in a laboratory envi-ronment) versus using naturally occurring data (which mayform a sample too small and too variable to be used for any-thing other than impressionistic analysis).
Such corporashould also encourage work in evaluation, since experimen-tal hypotheses reported by one researcher can be tested byanother researcher on the same corpus or on a new corpuslabeled according to the same conventions.In sum, this session does not represent the field of prosodyresearch as a whole.
Rather, it represents hat part of pros-ody research which hardly existed previously, but which iscurrently growing rapidly.
In particular, this sessionincludes tatistical methods, corpora-based approaches,analyses of field data and spontaneous speech phenomena.These are areas that have previously played a small or non-existent role, and in which there are likely to be someimportant new results.3.
OVERVIEW OF THE PAPERS INTHIS SESSIONThe first paper in this session, by Shriberg et al, focuses onthe prosody of speech and language repairs in spontaneousspeech using prosody as one knowledge source.
The paperintroduces a notational system for categorizing and analyz-ing repairs, discusses the distribution of these repairs andproposes an initial algorithm for "repairing" the repairs.The algorithm isbased on pattern matching in combinationwith other knowledge sources including syntax, semanticsand acoustics.Abney's paper concerns the role of prosody and syntax.This paper points out, as others have noted, that phrasestructure and prosodic structure are not identical, but nei-ther are they entirely unrelated.
The paper describes a par-ticular approach to syntactic analysis that appears toprovide interesting correlations between syntactic and pro-sodic structure.
The study evaluates the hypothesized struc-tures on two data sets, including one from the ATIS domain.While it is true that we need an increased understanding ofthe relationship between prosody and syntax (both for syn-thesis and for understanding), wealso need to address thefact that given a syntactic structure, there is some choiceabout how to assign a prosodic structure.
The paper byOstendorf and Veillenx describes a strategy that models thechoice, or variability, in prosodic structure.
The proposedstrategy, an extension of work done by Wang and Hirsch-berg, is used in synthesis as well as analysis (using an anal-ysis-by-synthesis approach).
The new contribution is aricher set of segmentation (grouping) levels to be modeled.The paper by Silverman and others from Nynex focuses onlocating discourse-relevant information-bearing wordswithin an utterance.
This concept is similar, but not identi-cal, to what may be called discourse "focus."
The study is afield analysis using actual directory assistance calls, andcompares the use of prosody in read and in spontaneousspeech, using the draft prosody notation mentioned earlier.This study, like others at the workshop, point out potentialdifferences in these two speech styles, differences that needto be better understood if we are to adequately modelhuman speech.At the workshop, Mark Liberman reported a related studyof calls left on answering machines compared to those madeto people.
The calls left on the machine were similar pro-sodically to the read style in the Nynex study.
This appearsto be evidence that the change in prosody may be relatedmore to the interactivity of the situation than to the read vs.spontaneous contrast.
Although most read speech is non-interactive, spontaneous speech can be either interactive (asin the people talking to the Nynex simulated understandingmachine) or non-interactive (as in talking to an answeringmachine).The last paper in the session, by Hirschberg and Grosz,takes the position that similar models of prosody should beused for synthesis and understanding.
The study uses Groszand Sidner's discourse model for segmentation a d attemptsto correlate the resulting structures with various prosodicattributes.
Seven labelers are used, some of whom seg-mented based on the text only, and others who segmentedon the basis of both text and through listening.
The inter-labeler eliability and the correlations between acoustic anddiscourse attributes of prosody are results important forthose who want o develop spoken language systems as wellas those who want to better understand human communica-tion processes.The use of decision trees, evident in this session as well asin the statistical language modeling session of this work-shop, is a growing research area.
Decision trees have theinteresting property of providing astraightforward mecha-416nism for combining the virtues of probabilities with knowl-edge from role-based approaches.
Because the structure ofthe knowledge from the rules is preserved, these methodscan be used not only to model the phenomena of interest,but also to test hypotheses and to gain knowledge aboutwhich information sources are providing the most gain inthe models.During the discussion period for this session, Bill Fisherpointed out that one of the utterances inthe test set ("Doesthis flight leave on Friday or Saturday") had to be markedclass X (not evaluable) because the lexical SNOR wasambiguous.
The sentence could, however, be disambigu-ated on the basis of its prosody (either by listening or byobserving the .sro transcription).
Throwing out sentencesthat prosody could disarnbiguate discourages work on inte-grating prosody in our systems.
Bob Moore pointed out arelated issue: the impoverished representation f disfluen-cies in the lexical SNOR representation.
This is importantsince disfluencies form a significant portion of the errorfulsentences inour systems.
Our representations and our eval-uations are not yet in phase with our research goals.We could address these issues by: (1) havmg the annotatorslisten to sentences before classification (which is costly ifdone for every sentence), (2) developing a new transcrip-tion level that includes more than the lexical SNOR but lessthan the .sro transcriptions, or(3) providing two .cat filesfor some utterances (one categorization  the basis of lexi-cal SNOR and the other on the basis of the .sro file).
Theseissues hould be addressed by the MADCOW committee incooperation with the Principles of Interpretation committee.As pointed out by Hirschberg and Grosz, it is of interest toknow what different interpretations may be derived on thebasis of text alone versus text and speech.
We propose that asample of the sentences be annotated from speech, so that atleast we know what is being missed by relying on the textalone.4.
HOW DO THESE PAPERS FIT INTO THEREST OF PROSODY RESEARCH?These papers differ from traditional prosody research intheir focus on statistical nd corpus-based approaches, butthey also differ in other ways.
Table 1 outlines the areascovered by most previous work in prosody.
The traditionallinguistic divisions are labeled own the left-most column,and the other column headings address the traditional divi-sion between perception (analysis, understanding) ontheone hand and production (synthesis, generation) on theother.
The perception area consists of two columns, for readand spontaneous styles.
The production column is not sosubdivided because we have not yet addressed the issue ofgenerating spontaneous speech, though abetter understand-ing of these mechanisms could eventually ead to more nat-ural synthesis.
The read speech column is located closer tothe production column since this style is closer to what iscurrently used in synthesis.Table 1: How do these papers fit into the rest of prosody research?Source of  Production Perception Perceptioninformation (read speech) (spontaneous speech)pragmaticdiscoursesemanticsyntacticmo~h~o~c~le~cNphoneticacousticL2:~iiii;ii!i!iiiiiiiiiiii!iil~.iiiii!::':':!!i!!!i!!!i!iiiii!
!i ~4 1'14417The group of researchers dealing with speech and languageis not culturally homogeneous.
Even among those withdegrees :in the same subject area (e.g., linguistics), special-ists from different sub-disciplines manifest significant cul-tural differences inbackground, strategies, beliefs andgoals.
The shaded areas of Table 1 indicate where tradi-tional research on prosody has focused its efforts.
Pleaseforgive any biases in this interpretation which is meant obe suggestive only.There is much work in the pragmatics literature, whichdraws greatly from semantics and which touches on syntax,but seldom has involved acoustic analyses.
On the otherhand, the tradition of speech science (which includes lin-guists of the more phonetic ilk) has focused agreat deal ofattention on the production and perception of read speechstyles.
This work occasionally touches on syntactic issues,but largely ignores the higher linguistic levels as well asissues related to spontaneous speech.
Largely, the past workin prosody has been performed by two different communi-ties with goals and results omewhat offset from oneanother.The papers in this session start o fill in some of the gaps inthe field of prosody.
For example, the Shriberg et al paper(labeled '1' in the table) begins to integrate aspects ofacoustics, yntax and semantics for spontaneous speech.Abney's paper (labeled '2' in the table) considers syntaxand some aspects of acoustics as related principally to pro-duction.
The Ostendorf and Veilleux paper (labeled '3' inthe table) integrates aspects of acoustics and syntax in a rep-resentation neutral with respect to perception and produc-tion.
The paper by Silverman et al (labeled '4' in the table)integrates aspects of acoustics and pragmatics in read andspontaneous speech.
The Hirschberg and Grosz paper,(labeled '5' in the table) strives for a representation neutralwith respect to production and perception and integratesaspects of pragmatics and discourse with acoustics.As illustrated in Table 1, the papers in this session representrather new research areas and begin to fill out the field ofprosody.
We are very hopeful that this area will provideresults that will improve our understanding of human com-munication, and that will be useful in the development ofspoken language systems.
However, though these papersbegin to fill some gaps in our understanding of prosody andits relationship to other areas of speech and language, it isclear that far more research isneeded.
To fully understandthe nature of prosody, and to be able to use it effectively, westill have a good deal more integration work to achieve.418
