PROSODIC  STRUCTURE,  PERFORMANCESTRUCTURE AND PHRASE STRUCTURESteven AbneyBell Communications Research445 South St., Morristown, NJ 07962-1910ABSTRACTIt is natural to expect phrase structure to be important inpredicting prosodic phrasing.
Yet there appears to be aconcensus that syntactic phrases do not correspond well toprosodic phrasing, and independent s ructures have been pro-posed to account for prosody.I propose that the problem with phrase structure lies withthe particular measures of boundary strength applied to syn-tactic structures, and with the fact that phrase structure isviewed as an immediate constituency tree exclusively.
I pro-pose viewing phrase structure as a composite of immediateconstituency and dependency relations, and present an alter-native measure of boundary strength.
I show that boundarystrength according to this measure corresponds much moreclosely to empirical prosodic (and psycholinguistic) boundarystrength than does syntactic boundary strength according toa standard measure.1.
INTRODUCTIONIt  is natural to expect phrase structure to be impor-tant in predicting prosodic phrasing.
Hence it is some-what unsettling that the relationship between prosodicand syntactic structure appears o tenuous, as for exam-ple in Selkirk's account \[10, 11, 12\].
Selkirk's prosodicstructure differs from standard phrase structure on sev-eral counts, but most notably because it is much flatterthan standard phrase structure, which is heavily right-branching in English:UI !I Il I I It f I I IThe absem..minded pmfemm has beeo avidly m~ling sbom the lalesl bielpzphy of Man~ ~In a similar vein, some psycholinguists have concludedthat syntactic structure provides an inadequate model ofthe performance structures reflected in linguistic behav-ior.
Martin, Grosjean, and others have explored exper-imental measures of the relative prominences of bound-aries between words, and conclude that the syntacticprominence of a boundary is not the best predictor of itsempirical prominence \[4, 6, 7, 8, 9\].If prosodic structures and performance structures differfrom phrase structure, however, they appear to corre-spond well to each other.
For example, Gee and Gros-jean \[6\] use Selkirk's prosodic phrases in an algorithmicmodel of their experimental data.
And turnabout beingfair play, Bachenko and Fitzpatrick \[3\] adapt Gee andGrosjean's algorithm to predict prosodic structure forspeech synthesis.However, I believe the perceived inadequacy of syn-tactic structure is at least in part an artifact of mea-sures of syntactic boundary prominence that are basedon immediate-constituency trees alone.
I would like toshow that we can obtain a measure of syntactic bound-ary prominence that corresponds better to prosodic andpsycholinguistic boundary prominence if we view phrasestructure as a composite of immediate constituency anddependency relations.2.
CHUNKS AND DEPENDENCIESI propose that the structure relevant for prosody andperformance is a composite of immediate-constituencyand dependency relations.
Usually, dependency gram-mar is an alternative for representing phrase structure,in competition with immediate constituency.
However,there is often a systematic orrespondence b tween de-pendencies and immediate constituency.
I will assumesuch a correspondence, and define dependency in termsof immediate constituency, as follows:Y depends on X iffX is a word, andY is an immediate constituent of a phraseheaded by XGraphically: !425Dependencies are combined with immediate con-stituency in the relation is licensed by.
X may licenseY either by dependency or by immediate constituency:X licenses Y by dependency iffY depends on X, andX is a major-category head(N, V, Adj, or Adv), andX precedes YX licenses Y by immediate constituency iffY is an immediate constituent of X, andthere is no node that licenses Y by dependencyConsider, for example, the following sentence (adaptedfrom \[10\]):the absent-minded professor from Princetonwas reading a biography of Marcel ProustThe major-category heads are absent-minded, professor,Princeton, reading, biography, Marcel Proust.
The PPfrom Princeton follows, and depends on, professor; hencefrom Princeton is licensed by dependency.
Likewise fora biography (depends on reading), and of Marcel Proust(depends on biography).
These three phrases are licensedby dependency; all the other phrases are licensed by im-mediate constituency.
We can represent he licensingstructure as follows, where the arrows represent licensingby dependency, and the straight lines represent licensingby immediate constituency:SThere is a certain similarity between this structure andSelkirk's prosodic structure.
In particular, if we consideronly the relation licenses by immediate constituency, andexcise the clausal node (S), the remaining connectedpieces of phrase structure--which I call chunks---areSelkirk's C-phrases.
Gee and Grosjean also base theiralgorithm on C-phrases.
The correspondence betweenchunks and C-phrases uggests that licensing structuremight do better than standard phrase structure in pre-dicting prosodic and performance-structure boundaryprominence.
11 An analysis in which phrase structure consists of a seriesof strata--words, chunks, simplex clauses--also proves useful for3.
MEASURING SYNTACTICBOUNDARY STRENGTHGiven phrase structure trees, we also require a methodfor computing boundary prominence.
The method thatI take to be "standard" is the one assumed in theperformance-structure lit rature, by which the promi-nence of a boundary b is the number of non-terminalnodes in the smallest constituent spanning b.
For exam-ple:I I I I3 2 1 6 1 2I would like to propose an alternative measure.
Thegeneral idea is as follows:1.
Clause boundaries > chunk boundaries > wordboundaries2.
"Strong" dependencies between immediately adjacentchunks/clauses weakens the boundary between them3.
Phonologically weak chunks "cliticize" to theadjacent chunkPhonologically weak chunks are chunks containing a sin-gle word whose category is pronoun, particle, auxiliary,conjunction, or complementizer.
The following are spe-cific boundaries weakened by "cliticization":verb - (indirect) object pronounverb - particlesubject pronoun - verbwh pronoun - auxiliaryinverted auxiliary - subjectconjunction - subjectcomplementizer- subjectThe "strong" dependencies are these:verb - any dependentnoun - of phrasenoun - restrictive relative clausesubject - verbrapid, robust parsing of unrestricted text \[1, 5\].
The parsing ad-vantages of chunks provided my original motivation for consideringthem.
I undertook the work described here in order to make goodon earlier hand-waving about a possible relation between chunksand prosodic phrases.426I also relax the adjacency requirement to permit one in-tervening phonologically weak chunk.
In particular, if aparticle or indirect object pronoun intervenes between averb and its following dependent, he boundary beforethe dependent is still weakened.I assign the following heuristic values to boundaries.What is important for my purposes i the relative values,not the absolute values.3 Unweakened clause boundary2 Unweakened chunk boundary2 Weakened clause boundary, governor is noun1 Weakened clause boundary, governor is verb1 Weakened chunk boundary0 Weakened chunk boundary involving phono-logically weak chunk0 Intra-chunk word boundariesTo illustrate the measure, consider the following examplefrom Martin \[9\]:To illustrate, consider again sentence (1), with theoreti-cal and empirical boundary prominences:?h~.i~ who ~ mguladyI JI $01JO21102IS0The top numbers are the boundary prominences accord-ing to the chunks-and-dependencies model; the bottomnumbers (in italic) are empirical values obtained by Mar-tin \[9\] in a naive-parsing experiment.
The length of thevertical ines corresponds to the theoretical prominenceof each boundary.
The horizontal lines represent the lo-cM relative prominence domain of each boundary: thesolid lines according to the model, the dotted lines ac-cording to the data.
In this case, the theoretical andempirical domains match exactly.This is the same sentence, using the standard model:' J I I I taw' 'el I I2 0 1 3 1 2The bold arrows mark dependencies that induce weaken-ing.
The first boundary is a clause boundary, weakenedfrom 3 to 2.
The second boundary is a chunk bound-ary.
Since who is phonologically weak, the boundary isweakened to 0.
The third boundary is a chunk bound-ary weakened from 2 to 1.
The fourth boundary is anunweakened clause boundary, value 3.
The next to lastboundary is a weakened chunk boundary, and the finalboundary is an unweakened chunk boundary.4.
COMPARING THE MODELSTo compare the chunks-and-dependencies model to thestandard model, we need to compare both models toboundary-prominence data.
I am primarily interested inthe local relative prominence ofboundaries.
A boundary" b is defined to be locally more prominent than boundaryc iff b is more prominent than c and every interveningboundary is less prominent than c. In comparing theo-retical and empirical prominences, each inversion countsas an error.
An inversion arises wherever bis locally moreprominent than c according to the model, but c is locallymore prominent than b according to the data.cl~klren11023O~r'~m I ~ss?ns Igrut~ 6o ''21206In this case, there is an inversion: the second bound-ary is more prominent than the third, according to themodel, but the third is more prominent than the second,according to the data.
The inversion is reflected in theline crossing.5.
DATATo compare the models, I examined two sets of data:performance structure data reported by Grosjean, Gros-jean and Lane \[7\]; and a set of sentences with hand-marked prosodic boundaries, kindly provided by JuliaHirschberg of AT&T Bell Laboratories.Grosjean, Grosjean and Lane conducted two experi-ments, one examining pauses when subjects read sen-tences at various peeds, and one examining parsing bylinguistically-naive subjects.
They report only the dataon the pausing experiment, though they claim that theparsing data is highly correlated with the pausing data.The data consists of 14 sentences, containing 55 oppor-427tunities for inversions.
(An opportunity for inversionis a boundary that, according to the model, is locallymore prominent than at least one other boundary).
In 52cases the model makes the correct prediction (5% error).The three inversions all involved unexpectedly promi-nent boundaries around multisyllabic pre-head modifiersat sentence nd, hence they arguably reflect a single un-?
modelled effect.
Using the standard measure gives us 42inversions out of 102 opportunities for inversion, or 41%error, dramatically worse than the licensing measure's5% error rate.
(There are more opportunities for inver:sion because the standard model typically makes moredistinctions in boundary prominence.
)The second data set consists of 127 sentences fromthe Darpa ATIS task, with prosodic boundary mark-ings added by Julia Hirschberg.
She distinguished threeboundary strengths: strong, weak, and no boundary.A complication in the prosodic data is the presence ofhesitation pauses, which I do not expect a syntacticmodel to capture.
As a primitive xpedient, I formulateda rule that I could apply mechanically to distinguish es-itation pauses from "genuine" prosodic boundaries, and Ieliminated those boundaries that were hesitation pausesaccording to the rule.
Namely, I eliminated any prosodicboundary immediately following a preposition, conjunc-tion, infinitival to, or a prenominal modifier.After eliminating hesitation pauses, I applied thelicensing-structure measure and the standard measure.Using the licensing measure, there were 363 opportuni-ties for inversions, and 12 observed (3% error).
Apply-ing the standard model to 16 sentences drawn at randomfrom the data gives 38 inversions out of 114 opportuni-ties, or 33% error.Caution is in order in interpreting these results, in thatI have not controlled for all factors that may be rel-evant.
For example, the standard measure generallyhas a greater ange of distinctions in boundary promi-nence, and that may lead to a larger proportion of errors.Also, the method I use to eliminate hesitation bound-aries may help the chunks-and-dependencies model morethan it helps the standard model.
In short, these areexploratory, rather than definitive results.
Nonetheless,they strongly suggest hat the chunks-and-dependenciesmodel corresponds to empirical prominences better thanthe standard model does, hence that syntactic structuremay be a better predictor of prosodic and performancestructures than previously thought.Re ferences1.
Steven Abney.
Rapid Incremental Parsing with Repair.Proceedings ofthe 6th New OED Conference: ElectronicText Research.
University of Waterloo, Waterloo, On-taxio.
1990.2.
Steven Abney.
Chunks and Dependencies: Bringing Pro-cessing Evidence to Bear on Syntax.
Paper presented atthe Workshop on Linguistics and Computation, Univer-sity of Illinois, Urbana/Champaign.
1991.3.
J. Bachenko ~ E. Fitzpatrick.
A Computational Gram-mar of Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in English.Computational Linguistics 16(3), 155-170.
1990.4.
Jean-Yves Dommergues & Franqois Grosjean.
Perfor-mance structures in the recall of sentences.
Memory F~Cognition 9(5), 478-486.
1981.5.
Eva Ejerhed.
Finitary and Stochastic Methods of ClauseParsing.6.
James Paul Gee & Franqois Grosjean.
PerformanceStructures: A Psycholinguistic and Linguistic Appraisal.Cognitive Psychology 15, 411-458.
1983.7.
F. Grosjean, L. Grosjean, & H. Lane.
The patterns ofsilence: Performance structures in sentence production.Cognitive Psychology 11, 58-81.
1979.8.
W.J.M.
Levelt.
Hierarchial chunking in sentence process-ing.
Perception ~ Psychophysics 8(2), 99-103.
1970.9.
Edwin Martin.
Toward an analysis of subjective phrasestructure.
Psychological Bulletin 74(3), 153-166.
1970.10.
Elisabeth O. Selkirk.
On prosodic structure and its rela-tion to syntactic structure.
In T. Fretheim (ed.
), NordicProsody 11.
Tapir, Trondheim.
1978.11.
Elisabeth O. Selkirk.
Prosodic Domains in Phonology:Sanskrit Revisited.
In M. Aronoff and M.-L. Kean (eds.),Juncture.
Anma Libri, Saratoga, CA.
1980.12.
Elisabeth O. Selkirk.
On the Nature of PhonologicalRepresentations.
In T. Myers, .J.
Laver, J.
Anderson(eds.
), The Cognitive Representation f Speech.
Nortli-Holland Publishing Company, Amsterdam.
1981.13.
Elisabeth O. Selkirk.
Phonology and Syntax: The Rela-tion between Sound and Structure.
The MIT Press, Cam-bridge, MA.
1984.428
