SESS ION 8A: MACHINE TRANSLAT IONJerry R. Hobbs, ChairArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI InternationalMenlo Park, California 94025The three papers in this session exemplify three differentapproaches to machine translation.
Each addresses asignificant problem encountered within the approach.In the dark ages of machine translation, it is said that re-searchers attempted a Direct Approach--word-for-wordsubstitution.
But this could not have survived much be-yond the first inspection of the output.
The most com-mon approach adopted in working machine translationsystems is the Transfer Approach illustrated in Figure 1.A text in a source language is analyzed to some depth,producing, for example, a parse tree or a logical form forthe sentences in the text.
Then transfer ules are appliedto this representation to produce a representation at thecorresponding level for the target language.
The text isthen generated in the target language.Source Direct Targett tLanguage LanguageAnalysisofSourceTransferGenerationofTargetFigure 1: Transfer Approach to Machine Translation.A French-to-English translation system might have atransfer ule like the following.
The French phrasela r@mun@ration du temps suppl6mentairehas the following syntactic structure:\[NP la r@mun@ration \[pp du\[NP temps suppl@mentaire\]\]\]The corresponding English phraseovertime payhas the syntactic structure\[Np \[Novertime\] pay\]The transfer rule would specify how fragments of theFrench parse tree mapped into the corresponding frag-ment of the English parse tree, for example, how the PPin French maps into the prenominal noun in English.The rule would be stated with whatever lexical general-ity is appropriate.There are a number of classical problems with the Trans-fer Approach, principally arising when the two languagesexpress the same concept in very different ways syntac-tically.
For example, what is expressed by the main verbin one language may be expressed adverbially in another.Conjunction reduction may be possible in one language,while lexical factors make it impossible in another.
Thepaper by Kinoshita et al addresses many of these prob-lems and describes how they can be handled within theTransfer Approach.Another approach, long advocated but rarely given ex-tensive implementation, is the Interlingua Approach, il-lustrated in Figure 2.
Here one does a much deeperanalysis on the source-language t xt, to the level of alanguage-independent conceptual representation calledInterlingua.
There are two advantages to this approach.First, a text must often be analyzed to a conceptual levelin any case to achieve an adequate translation.
The textmust be understood before it can be translated.
Sec-ond, when there are many languages one must translateamong, we need only define the mapping between eachlanguage and the Interlingua, rather than specifying thetransfer ules for every pair of languages.One problem with the Interlingua Approach is the dif-ficulty, if not impossibility, of devising an adequate In-terlingua.
The English word "wall" seems like a per-fectly straightforward primitive concept o an English-only speaker.
But when translating into French, we mustdistinguish between walls seen from the inside and wallsseen from the outside.
Will every new language we addto an Interlingua-based machine translation system force253Source TargetLanguage LanguageAnalysis Generationof ofSource < a n s ~  TargetInterlinguaFigure 2: Interlingua Approach to Machine Translation.on us further similar fragmentation f what we had be-lieved were primitive concepts?
The issue of how to con-struct an Interlingua incrementally is the topic of thepaper by Hovy and Nirenburg.Recently a new approach to machine translation--theStatistical Approach--has been attempted, principallyat IBM Yorktown.
In order for a statistical approach towork, there must be enough data available ncoding therelevant information.
This forces one to simplify the un-derlying model of the languages and the transfer betweenthem to the point where statistical analysis becomes fea-sible.In earlier work by Brown and his colleagues, the fol-lowing simplifications were used.
Instead of having agrammar of the source language, no analysis was doneof the source text.
Instead of having a grammar of thetarget language, a trigram model of the target languagewas used, capturing some but by no means all the struc-ture of the target language.
In place of transfer ulesthere were, first, a model of lexical correspondences be-tween the two languages, and, second, a model of thealignment of corresponding sentences.
The alignmentmodel, rather than using the richer information aboutcorrespondences between parse trees that transfer ulesseek to capture, encodes the simpler structural relationsillustrated in Figure 3.This approach is then illustrated in Figure 4.There is no reason in principle that a Statistical Ap-proach need be this shallow, and in fact in more recentwork, the IBM Yorktown team has attempted toincorpo-rate more linguistic structure into their efforts.
As largela rdmundration du temps suppl~mentaireovertime payFigure 3: Alignment Information.bracketed corpora become available, it may be possibleto align tree fragments as words are aligned today andderive transfer ules statistically.A problem that everyone who deals with real-world texteventually encounters i the problem of how to analyzevery long sentences.
This has especially engaged theattention of researchers in text understanding in the lastseveral years.
The solution is to break the sentences intophrases in the "right" way, whatever that is.Statistical approaches to translation are computation-intensive, and hence sentences become very long a lotsooner than in other approaches.
The problem of break-ing sentences into phrases that can he translated inde-pendently must be faced a lot earlier.
The paper byBrown et al in this volume addresses this problem inthe statistical translation framework.Source TargetLanguage Transfer Lanl :uageTrigramModelIInterlinguaFigure 4: Statistical Approach to Machine Translation.254
