Language and Speech Meetsthe HPCC Grand ChallengeY.
T. ChienNational Science FoundationWashington, DC 20550At a recent NSF workshop on speech understanding,Charles Wayne gave a presentation of Darpa's programon Speech and Language research.
Towards the end ofhis presentation, he enlightened all of us with a briefoutline of a possible new technology development pro-gram: High Performance Multi-lingual Speech and TextProcessing.
This is a very exciting and timely initia-tive, if it comes to that, as many of us in the federalgovernment, NSF included, are preparing to launch newefforts to implement the President's High PerformanceComputing and Communications (HPCC) program be-ginning in this fiscal year.The HPCC program is a real challenge and opportu-nity for all of us.
Many in the research community ,however, perceive "High Performance" as merely pro-viding supercomputer cycles and services or developingnew computer architectures and software for scientificor engineering research.
As such language and speechresearch, they feel, will have very limited role to play.I beleive this perception is incorrect and unhealthy.
Infact, language and speech is one of the most critical ele-ments of the HPCC program for at least two reasons.First, one of HPCC's goals is to address "Grand Chal-lenge" problems.
These are the fundamental problemsin science and engineering, with broad economic and sci-entific impact, whose solution could be advanced by ap-plying high performance computing techniques and re-sources.
In this context, "language and speech" hasbeen identified as one of those grand challenge prob-lems, ranking it among such problems of national con-cern as weather prediction, drug design, superconduc-tivity, human genome, and transportation systems andothers \[1,2\].
The implication here is that computationalspeech and language is a critical problem for us to solveand its solution could be advanced by further researchin high performance computing.Another and perhaps more important reason, in myview, is that speech and language can help refine anddrive HPCC research - ranging from architectures, oft-ware, algorithms and future novel applications as wemove towards a knowledge intensive society.
Here again,Charles Wayne's list of possible objectives for futurespeech and language research tells us why: Rapid, ef-fortless human-machine interaction vis speech, text, andother modahties, unlimited vocabulary speech recogni-tion, natural speech syntheses, real time translation ofspeech/language, etc.
Few other topics in the comput-ing and communications field offer an equally rich set ofresearch opportunities, with measurable goals and po-tential benefits.At NSF, we are also beginning the implementation ofthe HPCC program.
One of the components i a new"Grand Challenge" Applications Groups program focus-ing on cross-disciplinary esearch to address problemssuch as computational speech and language.
Other sim-ilar HPCC initiatives may further develop, but theirstrategies and contents are likely more driven by thevisions of the research community.
Since HPCC is amulti-agency program, it will also provide a rare oppor-tunity for Darpa and NSF to coordinate their goals andstrategies to support research in speech and language.This is a challenge not only for the two agencies but forthe research communities as well.References:1.
"The federal High Performance Computing pro-gram", a report submitted to the Congress by theOffice of Science and Technology, September, 1989.2.
"Grand Challenges 1993: High Performance Com-puting and Communications," a report by the FCC-SET Committee to supplement the President's fiscalyear 1993 budget.449
