Segment-Based Acoustic Models with Multi-level SearchAlgorithms for Continuous Speech RecognitionMarl Ostendorf J. Robin RohlicekBoston University BBN Inc.Boston, MA 02215 Cambridge, MA 02138PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project is to develop improved acousticmodels for speaker-independent recognition of continu-ous speech, together with efficient search algorithms ap-propriate for use with these models.
The current workon acoustic modelling is focussed on stochastic, segment-based models that capture the time correlation of a se-quence of observations (feature vectors) that correspondto a phoneme.
Since the use of segment models is compu-tationally complex, we are investigating multi-level, iter-ative algorithms to achieve a more efficient search.
Fur-thermore, these algorithms will provide a formalism forincorporating higher-order information.
This research isjointly sponsored by DARPA and NSF.RECENT RESULTS?
Developed methods for robust context modeling forthe stochastic segment model (SSM) using tied co-variance distributions, and investigated different re-gions of tying using clustering techniques.
On theRM Oct 89 test set, improvements reduced the errorrate of the SSM by a factor of two (9.1% to 4.8%word error), and the current BBN-ItMM/BU-SSMcombined system achieves 3.3% word error.
* Determined that linear models have predictivepower similar to non-linear models of cepstra withinsegments, and explored different models of the sta-tistical dependence of cepstral coefficients in thecontext of a dynamical system (DS) model.?
Evaluated the dynamical system model in phonemerecognition (as opposed to classification i  previouswork) using the split-and-merge s arch algorithm.The DS model outperforms the independent-framemodel on the TIMIT corpus.?
Reformulated the recognition problem as a classi-fication and segmentation scoring problem, whichallows more general types of classifiers and non-traditional feature analysis.
Demonstrated thatfor equivalent feature sets and context-independentmodels, the two methods give similar results.?
Investigated duration models conditioned on speak-ing rate and pre-pausM location, and improved per-formance by increasing the weight of duration by in-eluding the duration probabilities separately in theN-best score combination.?
Analyzed the behavior of recognition error over theweight space for HMM and SSM scores in the N-bestrescoring paradigm.
Addressed the problem of localoptima with a grid-based search, determined thatthe relative weights for the HMM and SSM scoresare similar, and discovered a significant mismatchproblem between training and test data.?
Extended Bayesian techniques for speaker adapta-tion and evaluated these in the RM word recogni-tion task, achieving 16% reduction in error using3 minutes of speech with simple mean adaptationtechniques.
Covariance adaptation techniques seemto require more speakers for training the priors.?
Developed a multi-level stochastic model of speechthat can take advantage of multi-rate signal analy-sis; evaluating the model for the two-level case withcepstral features hows improved performance overa single-level model.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARThe plans for the coming year reflect the fact that thisgrant ends in summer 1992.?
Continue work in the classification and segmenta-tion scoring paradigm: demonstrate improvementsassociated with novel models and/or features, andextend the probabilistic framework to allow context-dependent models.?
Extend context modeling through further explo-ration of clustering and to recently developed DSor multi-level variations.?
Implement different auditory-based signal process-ing algorithms, and evaluate their usefulness forrecognition through a series of experiments on theTIMIT corpus.467
