SESS ION 14: GOVERNMENT PANELCharles L. Wayne, ChairSoftware and Intell igent Systems Technology OfficeDefense Advanced Research Pro jects  AgencyArl ington, VirginiaABSTRACTThe Workshop ended with a first-time ever, hour-longGovernment Panel session organized at the request of theWorkshop Program Committee, which wanted to hearfrom some of the government people present.
The panelconsisted of five individuals, each invited to be provoca-tive and each given five minutes to offer his or her per-sonal perspectives.
The floor was subsequently thrownopen for a general discussion of the issues raised.PANEL  STATEMENTSDr.
W. T. Chien of the National Science Foundation dis-cussed the High Performance Computing and Commu-nication (HPCC) initiative, indicating that it presentsnew opportunities for government agencies to coordinatetheir research efforts to address Grand Challenge prob-lems, including speech and language.
He pointed outthat these problems require multidisciplinary solutionsand that HPCC could have a broad and beneficial im-pact.Dr.
John Prange of the National Security Agency indi-cated pleasure with the higher visibility being given tonatural language research.
He worried about the simi-larity of approaches (variations on Hidden Markov Mod-els) being used by many of the speech groups and thecurrent methods of evaluation (which may be focusingefforts too heavily in directions amenable to evaluation).Dr.
Prange wants to encourage new ideas and a balancebetween technology and science, while pushing for porta-bility, scalability, and language independence.
He citedTIPSTER as a good example of the benefits of havingother agencies heavily involved in DARPA projects fromthe start.Dr.
Susan Chipman of the Office of Naval Researchspoke from the perspective of a psychologist interestedboth in cognitive science and in applications uch astraining.
She wondered about the generalizability ofDARPA's speech work to other applications and worriedabout using brute force statistics without good theory.Admitting some ignorance about how far speech tech-nology had come, she noted that in trying out variousdemo systems he was more struck by the failures (e.g.,nonsensical nswers) than the successes.
She opined thatthe solution could be to incorporate more top-down con-straints as humans do.Dr.
Tim Anderson of the Armstrong Laboratory ad-dressed the Air Force's interest in speech recognition,outlining both the challenges and the benefits of puttinginteractive voice in the cockpit.
He wants systems thatneed little or no speaker-dependent training, that canrecognize connected speech under adverse conditionswith a 100-1000 word vocabulary, and that can talk backfluently.
Dr. Anderson was particularly pleased and im-pressed with the cooperation among sites, but thoughtit unwise for the majority of the community to ride onewagon (HMMs).
He made a plea for more innovationand surmised that many researchers stay on that wagonbecause of the annual evaluation cycles.
He also pointedout the need to improve portability between applicationdomains.
He hopes to see interactive voice technologybecome good enough for the Air Force to use in a newgeneration of aircraft.Dr.
Jordan Cohen of the Institute for Defense Analysesclaimed that it is more effective to try to solve specificproblems, then generalize, than to start by looking forgeneric solutions.
Therefore, he urged DARPA to findreal problems and deal with real users who understandthe real requirements.
He hoped that the Air Travel In-formation System (ATIS) could become a live database(not just a snapshot) with which real users could inter-act, and he said that disagreements over the details ofthe new CSR corpus would become mute as soon as wefind a real customer.
Dr. Cohen indicated that he wasvery pleased with what he had seen at the workshop,that things had come a long way.AUDIENCE REACTIONSThe ensuing discussion dealt primarily with the issuesof innovation, evaluation, requirements, and technologytransfer.Responding to the challenge to do more innovation, onePI spoke of the need for the Government to help assure447stronger funding over longer periods of time - a point thepanel agreed with.
A visitor commented that frequentevaluations may be encouraging researchers to hug theshore rather than to try risky, long term research.A senior esearcher agreed with the need for innovation,but said that deemphasizing evaluation would surely tor-pedo progress; he would foster innovation by selectingappropriately challenging problems and corpora.
A pan-elist commented that evaluation currently seems to hedriving/defining research, whereas it should be the otherway around, with evaluation methods chosen to shedlight on the real problems.
A government person in theaudience countered that anyone wishing to use an un-conventional pproach must have a way to show that itis in fact providing benefit.Recalling the Sunday afternoon comments by LTC Met-tala, who identified validated Army "requirements" forspeech technology, one person pointed out that there isa chicken and egg problem, where one needs to demon-strate at least an initial capability before the Servicescan accurately identify their requirements.
On the otherhand, the enunciation ofa "requirement" makes it mucheasier to justify spending research dollars to addressthose perceived needs.In that vein, it was pointed out that MUC-2 had exposedthe feasibility of the data extraction application in theabstract, that TIPSTER was designed to build on thoseresults, and that it is now benefiting from the interactionwith real users.Some researchers argued that it is not their job to dotechnology transfer, that they must first develop some-thing to transfer.
One claimed that it was not practicalto focus on customers at this time, while another saidthat it was better to get users involved to pull the tech-nology in the right directions.It was said that we should not think of speech andlanguage technology as end products, but as enablingtechnology which will succeed when it is embedded in alarger environment and becomes a regular part of dailylife.
Although there are many important military appli-cations for this technnology, the underlying technologytranscends application domains and has a wide range ofcivilian applications as well.The Chair, who is also the Program Manager, closed thesession by congratulating the researchers on the enor-mous progress reported at the Workshop.448
