SESS ION lOb: CORE NL  LEX ICON AND GRAMMARMark Liberman, ChairpersonDepartment ofLinguisticsUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104-6305ABSTRACTThe value of generally-available speech and text corpora infacilitating research is clear--these resources are simply tooexpensive for each site to gather individually, and fair com-parative evaluation of approaches requires shared trainingand testing material.Similar considerations apply in the case of lexicons and gram-mars for broad-coverage NLP applications.
Lexicons andgrammars are very expensive to build, and it seems wastefulfor every site to have to build them over again, especially incases where no new invention is intended.
Also, fair com-parative valuation of other components in modular systemsseems to require combining them with a shared lexicon andgrammar.However, it is unclear whether the community of researcherscan agree that a particular design is appropriate, and thata large-scale ffort to implement i will converge on a resultof fairly general utility.
This session aimed to raise theseissues, and to begin a discussion that we hope will result ina recommendation for action in the near futu~.
The newly-formed Linguistic Data Consortium has a mandate to servethe community's needs in this area, and it will start from theideas presented in this session by the panelists (Jerry Hobbs,Ralph Grishman, Paul Jacobs, Bob Ingria, Louise Guthrie,and Ken Church) and the audience.1.
Summary of Panelists'PresentationsSix panelists made brief individual presentations.
Threeof these dealt with lexical issues.?
Louise Guthrie (NMSU) presented a suggested fromYorick Wilks for a "core lexicon" that would beapplication-independent a deasy to adapt o a widerange of parsers.?
Bob Ingria (BBN) discussed his experience with thesimilarities and differences in the form and contentof the lexical entries used by different systems.?
Ken Church (AT&T) ,  playing devil's advocate, ar-gued that the effort to turn lexical raw materialsinto a shared computational lexicon might betterbe spent on more raw materials.Three other panelists dealt with grammatical issues.Jerry Hobbs (SKI) argued for a project to producea "National Resource Grammar," an extensible, ef-ficient broad-coverage English grammar that couldbe distributed generally to the DARPA communityand to other researchers.Ralph Grishman (NYU) suggested that we need toknow where our grammars and parsers stand, andthat an on-going program of comparative quantita-tive evaluation would define the state of the art, andshould also lead to significant improvements.Paul Jacobs (GE) discussed his experience in com-bining components from earlier systems imple-mented at GE and CMU, doing the computational-linguistics equivalent of putting a Ford engine intoa GM chassis; the fact that such "transplants" arefeasible increases the credibility of of an effort toproduce common lexical and grammatical compo-nents.2.
Discussions and ConclusionsThe panelists and the audience touched on a spectrumof resources ranging from "raw materials" such as cor-pora to "finished components" such as computationalgrammars and lexicons.
In between are such things asannotated corpora, pronouncing dictionaries, specializedword lists such as gazeteers, thesaurus-like structuressuch as George Miller's WordNet, part-of-speech taggers,lexical materials uch as lists of verb subcategorizationframes, and partial parsers of various kinds.The proposals from Guthrie/Wilks, Hobbs, and Grish-man evoked both sympathetic responses and skepticalones.
One point that emerged was that the DARPA com-munity should have a Written Language CoordinatingCommittee, to complement the Spoken Language Coor-dinating Committee, and to enhance interchange amongDARPA WL contractors.
The WLCC has since been or-ganized, with Ralph Grishman as chair, and will providea forum for further discussion and action on these issues.351
