Experiences Collecting Genuine Spoken Enquiriesusing WOZ TechniquesRoger Moore and Angela MorrisSpeech Research  Un i tDefence  Research  Agency  Ma lvern  (RSRE)St. Andrews  Road,  Ma lvern ,  Worcs.
,  WR14 3PS,  Un i ted  K ingdomABSTRACT 3.
THE WIZARDThis paper presents SRU's first experiences collecting un-scripted speech data using the 'Wizard of Oz' technique toprovide a genuine telephone-based route planning service.Although only a limited quantity of data has been collected sofar, several valuable insights into the nature of future speech-based human-machine interaction have been obtained.1.
INTRODUCTIONMany laboratories have now used the so-called 'Wizardof Oz' (WOZ) technique for eliciting spontaneous spokenhuman-machine dialogue in order (i) to study the result-ing speech and (ii) to evaluate the necessary speech tech-nology and natural anguage processing systems \[1\].
Thetechnique is particularly valuable because it enables userbehaviour to be studied under conditions which are notconstrained by the limitations of current technological(or theoretical) capabilities.However, many such exercises involve 'volunteer' userswhose behaviour is prescribed by a pre-prepared sce-nario \[6\] thereby removing one potentially crucial aspectof human-machine interaction, namely any behaviouralevents which are unique to genuine (i.e.
motivated) andun-preprepared transactions \[4\].This paper presents $RU's first experiences collectingunscripted speech data using the WOZ technique by theprovision of a genuine voice-based telephone nquiry ser-vice to personnel on the RSRE site.2.
THE TASK DOMAINThe enquiry service was configured around a commer-cially available route planning software package.
Thepackage runs on a PC and contains map and gazetteerinformation covering the majority of the United King-dom.
Its main feature is its ability to find the shortestand/or quickest routes between two locations in accor-dance with a range of specifyable variables uch as pref-erences for certain classes of roads and driving speeds.Alternative routes can also be found.Clearly the behaviour of the wizard will very much influ-ence the nature of the resulting corpus, and constraints(such as restricting the vocabulary) can be placed on awizard in a variety of ways \[2\].However, in order not to restrict or influence callers' be-haviour, it was decided that very few restrictions shouldbe placed on the wizard apart from the use of a stockopening phrase and the provision of a few standard replytemplates imply in order to reduce the wizard's workload.In general, the design for the wizard's behaviour wasbased on information derived from the procedures em-ployed by a commercial company who already providea route planning service over the telephone (in this casethe enquiries being made by tone dialling) based on thesame software package.Every attempt was made to remove all distinctly hu-man characteristics from the wizard's speech such asfalse starts and stutters, and great care was taken toensure that breath noise and key clicks were not audibleto the caller.4.
THE EXPERIMENTALCONFIGURATIONAs well as implementing a genuine telephone-based n-quiry service using WOZ techniques, it was also de-cided to compare wizard-type transactions with normalhuman-human i teraction for the same task.
Hence theexperimental set-up was configured to operate with twoincoming telephone lines - one assigned to the normalhuman operator and one assigned to the wizard.
Ap-propriate quipment was installed to provide automaticdetection of incoming calls and initiation of recordingand digitisation.In order for there to be minimal differences betweenthe operator's behaviour in both the human-human andhuman-wizard conditions, the same operator was used ineach case.
As a consequence the only difference between61the two conditions was that the wizard's natural voicewas modified using a 'voice disguise' unit.
This devicechanged the talker's pitch and then combined the natu-ral and altered signals to produce a highly synchronisedduet effect.
It was found that this provided a voice whichwas unnatural (indeed 'robotic') and yet fully intelligible\[5\].The latter point was considered very important since itwas anticipated that the quality of the wizard's voicewould affect the user's perception of the system's capa-bilities; high voice quality being likely to suggest a sys-tem of high capabilities while a low voice quality wouldnot only imply a system of poor capabilities but mightlead to excessive confirmatory dialogue i f  the user haddifficulty understanding the response \[2\].The service was made available on each line for alternatehalf day sessions from 10 a.m. to  12 a.m. and 2 p.m.to 4 p.m. Whilst one number was on-line the other wasconnected to an answering machine which requested thecaller to try the alternative number.The table of directions that the route planning softwarepackage produces is an essential part of the informationservice.
To overcome the lack of screen display with atelephone-based service it was decided that the printedtable could be sent to the caller through the internalmail system (this also served to ensure the identity andlocation of the caller was known in order to send a ques-tionnaire at a later stage).
Callers were also given theoption of having the route information read out duringthe call.The route planning package was configured to show noparticular preference for road type and the road speedswere set at the national speed limits.5.
INSTRUCTIONS TO THECALLERSA poster advertising the service was circulated for dis-play on site noticeboards.
Also an electronic advertise-ment was placed in the central computing facility.Since the emphasis of the exercise was to collect datafrom genuine nquiries, the advertisments made no men-tion of either the Speech Research Unit or of the dif-ference between the two available telephone numbers,nor did they specify that the service was experimental,computer-based or automatic in any way.On receipt of a call, the operator (in human orwizard mode) always used the following introductoryannouncement:- "Welcome to the route planning service- how can I help you?
"MAKING A CAR JOURNEY SOON?CALL 1234 OR 5678WE CAN HELP YOU PLAN ITFigure 1: The advertisement for the service6.
RESULTSThe service went 'live' for the first time during November1991 but, due to the limited advertising campaign and arelatively small population of potential users, the num-ber of calls received (by the end of December 1991) wasrather smaller than had been initially hoped for.
Nev-ertheless, the data collected uring that period alreadycapture some interesting eneral features of genuine spo-ken human-machine interaction.For example, with some calls there was considerablebackground office noise (some callers appeared to be us-ing loud-speaking telephones).
Also, callers occasionallychuckled to themselves or made asides to other peoplein their vicinity (including statements along the lines of"Hey, I 'm talking to a machine" and constant referencesto 'it') - although this confirmed that the callers wereconvinced by the wizard's voice it also indicated thatthey believed that the system automatically knew whenit was being addressed!
Some callers interrupted the wiz-ard, and at least one mimicked the robotic style of thewizard's voice.It was also noticeable that, although the human-wizarddialogues were all concerned with planning particularroutes, most of the human-human dialogues were aboutthe nature of the service itself.
In other words, the userswho dealt with the wizard seemed to assume that such asystem would not be able to provide explanations aboutwhat it could and couldn't do - and so they didn't ask.In summary, during the period 13th of November 1991to 5th of December 1991 the service received a total oftwenty-two calls.The average length of a wizard operated call was twominutes and approximately three minutes for the humanoperated calls.A preliminary analysis of the transcripts produced a va-riety of interesting statistics on caller behaviour.
In par-ticular it was found that, on average, there were signifi-62Wizard Operator:Human Operator:12 good calls3hung up1 gave up6 good callsTable 1: Summary of the calls.cantly fewer words spoken by the caller in each turn ofthe human-wizard condition than in the human-humancondition.
Also, although the rate of "uhms" and "errs"was about the same in both conditions, callers seemedto be more polite to the machine than to the humanoperator!CALLER BEHAVIOURAverage no.
of turns/call:Average no.
of words/call:Average no.
of words/turn:Turns with "uhms/errs":Turns with "please/thankyou":Wizard314.212%27%Human181427.914%7%Table 2: Preliminary analysis of the transcripts.There were two interesting exceptions to the generalstatistics and the corresponding data was excluded fromthe analysis.In the first exception, the behaviour of one caller to thewizard was very different o the other human-wizard in-teractions but very much in line with the human-humandialogues.
A check of the corresponding transcripts re-vealed that the following utterance was spoken by thecaller at the start of the call - "Oh, sorry, it sounded63like a machine that was talking" - after which the callerappeared to continue with the assumption that he wastalking to a human operator (despite the peculiar voice)!In the second exception, another caller, this time to thehuman operator, exhibited behaviour which was morein line with the human-wizard ialogues.
In this caseit transpired that the operator had forgotten to switchoff the voice disguise unit at the very beginning of thecall.
Thus this caller seemed to believe he was talkingto a machine even after the operator's voice suddenlyreturned to normal!7.
CONCLUSIONSThis paper has described SRU's first experiences collect-ing unscripted speech data using the Wizard of Oz tech-nique to provide a genuine telephone-based route plan-ning service.
Although only a limited quantity of datahas been collected so far, several valuable insights intothe nature of future speech-based human-machine inter-action have been obtained.
In particular, various practi-cal issues have been highlighted such as the need to han-dle significant background noises, spoken asides by theuser and interruptions.
Also, genuine spoken human-machine interaction appears to be shorter and more(short-term) goal directed than corresponding human-human dialogue.The service has currently been suspended temporarilywith a view to launching a much larger exercise sometimein the early spring of 1992.References1.
Fraser, N. M. and Gilbert, G. N. "Simulating speechsystems", Computer Speech and Language, Vol.5, No.l,pp 81-99, January 1991.2.
Moore, R. K., Tomlinson, M. J. and Morris, A.
"Whitherthe wizard?
", Proc.
ESCA workshop on the Structure ofMultimodM Dialogue, Maratea, Italy, 16-20 September1991.3.
Polifroni, J., Seneff, S. and Zue, V. "Collection of spon-taneous speech for the ATIS domain and compara-tive analyses of data collected at MIT and Tr' ,  Proc.DARPA Speech and Natural Language Workshop, pp360-365, Pacific-Grove, CA, 19-22 February 1991.4.
Spitz, J.
"Collection and analysis of data from real users:implications for speech recognition / understanding sys-tems", Proc.
DARPA Speech and Natural LanguageWorkshop, pp 164-169, Pacific-Grove, CA, 19-22 Febru-ary 1991.5.
Taylor, M. M. personal communication, September 1991.6.
Zue, V., Daly, N., Glass, J., Leung, H., Phillips, M.,Polfroni, J., Seneff, S. and Soclof, M. "The collection andpreliminary analysis of a spontaneous speech database",Proc.
DARPA Speech and Natural Lan.guage Workshop,pp 126-134, ttarwichport, MA, 15-18 October 1989.
