Interaction between Structural Changes in MachineTranslationSatoshi KINOSHITA, John PHILLIPS, Jun-ichi TSUJIICent re  for Computat iona l  L ingu is t i csUn ivers i ty  of Manchester  Ins t i tu te  of Sc ience and  Techno logyPO Box 88, Manchester M60 1QD, United KingdomABSTRACTThis paper discusses complex structural changes dur-ing transfer within a non-destructive transfer framework.Though the description of each individual structural changeis not difficult, special provision must be made when theyare combined, because interaction between them sometimescauses unexpected problems.
Transfer of coordinate struc-tures is also discussed as this often necessitates a structuralchange and interacts with other structural changes in a prob-lematic way.1.
In t roduct ionSeveral focal issues have emerged in machine translation(MT) research as the result of recent intensive studies inthe field.
That  is,?
Declarative Frameworks for expressing Bi-lingualKnowledge?
Integration of Knowledge-based Processing andContextual Processing with the Translation Process?
Effective Exploitation of Domain/Text Type Speci-ficity (or Sublanguageness) in MT and DiscoveryProcesses for such SpecificitiesThough new frameworks of MT such as Statistics-basedMT (SBMT), Example-based MT (EBMT), Analogy-based MT (ABMT), Knowledge-based MT (KBMT)etc.
look radically different from conventional linguistic-based MT (LBMT) such as Transfer-based, they addressone or two of the above focal issues and ignore the rest\[7\] \[9\].
In particular, the new paradigms of MT tendto ignore the first issue ie.
declarative representation ofbi-lingual knowledge and the complexities involved n theprocess of combining units of bi-lingual knowledge.It is our contention that any MT system, whicheverparadigm it belongs to, has to store a set of translation-equivalent units for a pair of languages and combinethese to produce larger units of translation.
In EBMT,for example, a set of translation examples has to bestored and several of them have to be combined prop-erly to produce translation.
Because of the declarativenature of translation examples, EBMT inevitably en-counters the same complexities of combining translationunits in declarative representation as LBMT does.Research in LBMT \[1\] \[2\] \[31 \[10\] [12\] has revealed thatdifficulties in the declarative representation of bi-lingualknowledge stem mainly from the treatment of idiosyn-cratic structural changes caused by lexical items, and in-teractions of such idiosyncratic structural changes whenthey co-exist in single sentences.
These types of struc-tural changes also cause problems when they are com-bined with general or ordinary linguistic phenomenasuch as coordination.
A formal framework to cope withthese matters is essential in other approaches, such asEBMT, as in LBMT, if the translation is produced in acompositional way.In this paper, we discuss problems caused by such in-teraction, and give solutions in our logic-based transferframework \[8\].
Our transfer model views the transferprocess as deduction; it produces the target linguistic de-scription without changing the source description.
Thisgives a clear contrast o the conventional tree-transducermodel, which gradually transforms the source descrip-tion, and is therefore hard to control.Because of the logic oriented nature of out framework,it can also be extended to cope with the other focal is-sue of MT such as the integration of knowledge-basedprocessing with translation\[4\].2.
Formal i smWe use a simple formalism, representing a sentence asa network of semantic dependencies.
The basic units ofthe formalism are indices, properties, and relations.
Alogical form consists of an unordered set of terms; eachterm is either a property predicated of an index, or a rela-tion between two indices.
The written notation depictsproperties and relations as unary and binary functors,respectively, and indices as their arguments, i.e.
withinbrackets.
A logical form representing ' John saw Mary'might bee : john(j) ~5 see(e) ~ mary(m) & tense(e,past) &255subj(e,j) & obj(e,m)This representation is simplified particularly in that therelation tense here stands for what should be a com-plex representation of tense, aspect, and aktionsart, re-lated anaphorically to the preceding discourse.
It can beseen that the representation includes the names of theconcepts, both objects and events, which are mentionedin the sentence, and the semantic relationships betweenthem.
Each of the three indices, j, m and e, is a uniquelabel given to a node in the dependency network.
Theroot node of the network is specified at the beginning ofthe representation, in this case e, the node representingthe seeing event.
As long as the toot node of the net-work is specified, it is possible to convert a logical formmechanistically into a structured representation such asa dependency graph or a feature structure.
The par-ticular characteristics of the formalism -- the types ofrelations and predicates used and the manner of theiruse - -  are justified elsewhere\[11\].3.
TransferWe follow the standard division of a machine transla-tion system into stages of analysis, transfer, and gener-ation.
It is a requirement for the transfer descriptionthat it should state all and only the equivalence rela-tionships between expressions of a pair of languages.
Itshould contain no general inguistic information, eitheruniversal or specific to any single language: these typesof information belong in the formalism and content, re-spectively, of the descriptions of individual languages.In fact most of our transfer descriptions consist of directequivalences between predicates or groups of predicatesof the language pair.A transfer ule shows a particular translation equivalencebetween two languages.
It consists of three parts: a pairof logical forms, one for each language, representing theequivalence, and a third logical form giving the condi-tions under which the equivalence is applicable.
We callthese the equivalence pair and the condition respectively.Two ~ logical forms form an equivalence pair if the natu-ral language xpressions they represent have overlappingdenotations.
The rule can therefore be used for trans-lating in either direction: the two logical forms of theequivalence pair are always translationally equivalent ifthe condition is satisfied.
The logical forms of the equiv-alence pair will be indistinguishable from logical forms ofthe respective languages, using the same predicates andrelations.
The logical forms of the condition use meta-predicates which allow reference to to the logical formof the current local translation unit (sentence or clause)and to the linguistic context.
In practice, most transferrules have no condition; they consist just of an equiva-lence pair.
Some examples of rules follow:English Japanese Explanationtable(X) teeburu(X)  table --- teeburupaper(P) ronb~(P)  paper = ronb~paper(P) sinbun(P) paper = sinbunsubj(E,X) ga(E,X) subject markerobj(E,X) wo(Z,X) object markerhypothetical(E),like(E) -tai(F),omou(E) would like =i.l~ inLeft (obj (E,F))  -tai  omouThe following is the basic definition of transfer betweentwo texts (sentences, clauses, or whatever):A source logical form and a target logical formare correctly transferred if the terms of each can bedivided into non-overlapping subsets uch that thesource subsets can be placed into one-to-one cor-respondence with the target subsets by each corre-sponding pair being 'unified' with the two halves ofthe equivalence pair of a transfer ule, and if the ac-cumulated conditions of the transfer ules used aresatisfied.
('Unification' in this definition is rathersimilar to graph unification).4.
'Complex'  Transfer4.1.
Types of Complex TransferLindop & Tsujii (1991) list and discuss a variety of exam-ples that are always problematic for machine translationsystems.
We suggest that what makes these examplesdifficult is that different dependency structures are as-sociated with otherwise synonymous lexical items.
Webreak the problem down into four subparts.
* i)Argument-swiiching as in the translation of the GermanDer Wagen gef~llt mir - -  I like the carThe car pleases megefallen(E) & nom(O) & dat(S) , , like(E) & subj(S)& obj(O)In argument-switching, the relations between the lexicalitem and its dependents are not translated standardly.Although the German nominative normally correspondsto an English subject, it must in this example be trans-lated as a dative.
* ii) Head-switching as in the translation of GermanHans schwimmt gern - -  John likes swimmingJohn swims gladlylike(L) ~ oDj(L,S), , gem(L) ~ subj(L,S) iffshift(L,S)The German sentence is a description of a situation todo with swimming; the English is a description of a situ-ation to do with liking.
The shift predicate is explainedbelow.256* iii) Decomposition as in the translation of theJapanese John-ga zisatusita - -  John committed suicidezisatusuru(E) , , commit(E) & suicide(S) & obj(E,S)Here the single Japanese word zisatusuru is translatedas the English phrase to commit suicide.
Some typesof decomposition can give rise to special problems whenthere are modifiers or dependents involved.
These arediscussed in detail by Tsujii et al (1992).
Shortage ofspace and the variety and complexity of examples pre-vents their discussion here.
* iv) Raising as in the translation of the WelshFe ddigwydd fod Si6n ymahappens be John hereJohn happens to be heredigwydd(E1) & subj(E1,E2) & subj(E2,X) , , hap-pen(E1) & subj(E1,X) & obj(E1,E2)In the English, the subject of happen is John, but in theWelsh, the subject of digwydd ('happen') is the situationof John's being here.The predicate shift is introduced to define a transla-tion equivalence where certain dependencies are differ-ently arranged in the target language, as compared tothe source language.
It can be understood in terms ofsemantic type-shifting - -  the types are differently dis-tributed in the source- and target-language logical forms.Shift(H,E) means that in any instance of subj(H,X} orP(X,H) (where P stands for any relation) in the logicalform representing the English text, the H corresponds toan E in the logical form representing the other language.The following example shows how the example under (ii)above would work in practice.Ich weiB Hans schwimmt gern- I know John likes swim-mingich(i) me(i) me(i)wissen(w) know(w) know(w)subj(w,i) subj(w,i) subj(w,i)obj(w,s) obj(w,s) obj(w,g)Hans(j) John(j) John(j)schwimmen(s) swim(s) swim(s)subj(s,j) subj(s,j) subj(g,j)gern(g)subj(g,s)like(g)obj(g,s){shift (s,g)}like(g)obj(g,s)The columns of the table show the German source logicalform, the English logical form as it would be withoutshift, and the actual English target logical form.
Thehorizontal divisions of the table represent he fields ofoperation of separate transfer ules.4 .2 .
In teract ion  between types  o f  complext rans ferWhen several of these syntactic changes are combinedin one example, the logical form resulting from transfertend to be incoherent.
The following examples are typeson which most, if not all, existing machine translationsystems will fail, as will the mechanism proposed here sofar.English - Welsh; raising with argument-switching:John happens to like swimmingfe ddigwydd fod yn dda gan John nofiohappens be nice by John swim(swimraing-being-rdce-i~-John's-olairdon occurs)Dutch - English; verb - head-switching twice:Jan zwemt graag toevalligJohn swims gladly happeninglyJohn happens to like swimming(also 'John likes happening to swim 3There are two separate causes of difficulty in these ex-amples.
Firstly, the long-distance movement caused byraising causes problems n the transfer of structures whichhave been the target of raising.
The simplest way to getround the problem is to require syntactically-deleted ar-guments to be marked explicitly on all the verbs of whichthey are logical arguments, treating the phenomenonsyntactically as an example of lexically-triggered xtrac-tion, on a par with the extractions of syntactic objectsin a man I know and an easy man to please.
Transferrules which introduce raising predicates will then have tobring in the new subject explicitly.
For instance, the rulefor happen and digwydd, (iv) in ?4.1, will be re-writtenasdigwydd(E1) & subj(E1,E2) , , happen(E1) &subj(E1,X) & obj(E1,E2) iffsubj(E2,X)The second point is that the shift predicate must bedefined in such a way that it can cope with recursivechanges in the dependency structure brought about bythe occurrence of several interdependent head-switchingtranslations.
It seems that shift can be made to dothis simply by having e.g.
shift(H,E) affect all in-stances of subj(H,X) or P(X,H) (including shift(X,H))257not transferred by the transfer ule which introduced theshift(tiT, E).Together, these two stipulations enable the transfer ofexamples involving head-switching, argument-switching,raising, and most types of decomposition.5. '
I Yans fer  o f  Coord inate  S t ructures5 .1 .
P rob lems in  t rans fer  o f  coord inates t ruc turesThough transfer of coordinated structures often inter-acts with transfer of other translation units to producemiserable results in translation, few attempts have beenreported to formalize this problem.
We here divide theproblem into two categories:?
Divergence in semantic onstraints?
Combination of complex transfersA typical example of the first type is shown in the fol-lowing.Japanese.
( la) She wears a hat and shoes.
( lb) kanojo-ga boushi-wo kaburi, kutsu-woshe-subj hat-obj wear shoe-objhaku.wearAs is understood from its translation, "wear" is trans-lated "kaburu" or "haku" in Japanese, depending onwhether its object is something worn on the head oron the foot(or leg).
This means that, in this example,coordination of objects in English should be altered tothat of verb phrases in Japanese.This type of knowledge for lexical choice is very com-mon in a transfer or bi-lingual dictionary, and plays anessential role in lexical transfer of most current transfer-based MT systems.
The problem arises because neithera transfer program or a transfer-rule writer expects uchan awkward problem ot be caused by coordination.
Totranslate "wear" into "kaburu" in the above example, arule writer may usually write the following rule in ournotation1:1 In this section, we consider translation whose source and targetlogical forms are on the left and right sides of a transfer rule.
Forthe sake of simplicity, transfer rules hereafter are described as uni-directional ones.wear(X) , kaburu(X) i f f  obj(X,Y)&HAT(Y)But the condition part of this rule is implicitly expectedto be interpreted as follows.wear(X) , kaburu(X) iff V Y obj(X,Y)&HAT(Y)The precise definition may change depending on how thecoordinate structure is represented.
But the point is that"wear" may be translated "kaburu" only if all the objectshave a feature of being a "HAT".A simple transfer algorithm, for example, may choose thetarget word when it finds the first applicable transfer ulefor a source word: this algorithm may produce "boushi-to kutsu-wo kaburu" for the sentence (la), which meansthat the semantic relation between "wear" and "shoes"is ignored.The second type of problems occurs when one of thecoordinated objects triggers a complex transfer which isdescribed in ?3.
This type of problem can be seen in thefollowing translation.He committed murder then suicide.kare-ga satsujin-wo okashi, jisatsu-shita.he-subj murder-obj commit commlt-ed suicideThis problem is more complicated than the previous onebecause complex transfer, in this example "many-to-onetransfer", causes a structural change.There are several possible solutions to this problem.
Thesimplest one is that a transfer-rule writer writes all thetransfer rules which explicitly describe every possiblesub-structure with coordination.
This is of course unre-alistic.
Another solution is to make a transfer programwhich modifies the transfer result dynamically when,for example, a source word is given two different tar-get words.
But such a dynamic modification of the re-sult during transfer is against our policy of logic-basedtransfer, because this means gradual transformation ofthe source structure and therefore transfer cannot be for-malized as logical inference.5 .2 .
T rans fer  w i th  Coord inateExpans ionCoord inate  Expans ion  Hereafter we concentrate ona case where coordinated objects of a verb cause theproblem, though there is apparently an example whereother cases such as "subj" cause the same problem.
The258Input Logical FormEzpansion ~--T rans fer  ~--ItReductionOutput Logical FormExpand rulesI Transfer ules \]Figure h Transfer with Coordinate Expansionbasic requirement in logic-based transfer is that coordi-nation of objects should be reorganized to that of verbphrases or sentences, which is not supposed to causeproblems in transfer.
We call this reorganization "co-ordinate expansion".
The following is a part of logicalform for (la), which involves a coordinate structure.wear(w)&obj (w,o)&coord(o,ol)&hat (ol)&coord(o,o2)&shoe(o2)In this form, o is a linguistic object, and a predicatecoord represents a relation between the linguistic objectand its constituents.
The following is a result of expan-sion.coord(w,wl)&wear(wl)&obj (wl ,ol)&hat(ol)&coord(w,w2)&wear(w2)~:obj (w2,o2)~shoe(o2)The most naive and simplest strategy using this expan-sion is to expand every coordination within a sentenceand represent it in sentence coordination before trans-fer.
This transfer result will be reorganized again intoan appropriate representation f coordination i  the tar-get language.
But this solution seems inefficient fromthe computational point of view because caseswhere ex-pansion is necessary are rare .
Unnecessary expansionand reorganization of coordinate structures hould beavoided.
The strategy we propose executes coordinationexpansion only if it is necessary\[5\] (See Fig.
1).Transfer is divided into three phases; in the first phase,logical forms are expanded if expand rules (explainedbelow) find the necessity of coordinate xpansion.
Thisprocess continues as long as the necessity remains.
Inthe second phase, transfer described in previous ectionsis executed.
Finally, in the third phase, coordination isreorganized if the target language has a more appropriatestructure for coordination than the second phase result.
(Consider the translation of (lb).
Without reorganizingcoordination, the transfer esult will contain two "wear"s.)The following is an expand rule which detects the neces-sity of expansion concerned with translation of "wearinga hat".wear(X)&obj (X,Y)&coord(Y,Yi)&HAT(Yi)&coord(Y,Y2)&Yl #Y2&-~HAT(Y2)expand(Y,X)In the rule, ezpand(Y,X) means that coordination of thelevel Y should be expanded to that of X.
This rule sug-gests that coordinate xpansion is necessary if the objectof "wear" is a coordinate structure, and one constituentis a HAT while another isn't.We assume that expand rules are produced automati-cally from transfer ules before the actual transfer oper-ation.
The simplest way of extracting such a rule refersonly one transfer ule at one time.
This means that thenecessity of expansion can be detected not by creatingexpand rules but by referring transfer rules in actualtransfer phase.
But the former approach seems essentialif we wish to optimize expansion detection.Other  examples  Expand rules from a transfer rulewhich involves a structural change are a little different informs to the previous case.
The following are a transferrule for translating "commit suicide" into Japanese andits expand rule.commit (X)&obj (X,Y) &suicide(Y), jisatsu_suru(X)commit(X)&obj (X,Y)&coord(Y,Y1)&suicide(Y1)&coord(Y,Y2) 8zYl #Y2&-~suicide(Y2), expand(Y,X)Another example is the translation of the English "HU-MAN have ADJ NOUN" construction into Japanese.The sentence (2E) is translated (2J) using the rule (3).
(2E) She has beautiful eyes.
(2J) kanojo-no me-ga utsukushii.she-poss eye-subj beautiful(3) have(H)&subj (H,S)&obj (H,X)amod(X,M)poss(X,S)&subj(M,X)iff HUMAN(S)&PART_OF_BODY(X)259This case is more complicated than the previous onesbecause the transfer ule refers to two semantic features.Therefore we will get two expand rules, one of which isthe following rule.have(X)&subj (X,Y)&coord(Y,Y1)&HUMAN(Yi)&coorH(Y,Y2)&Yi#Y2&~HUMAN(Y2) &obj(X,Z) & mod(Z,_) & PART_OF_BODY(Z), expand(Y,X)In addition, we need another expand rule which checksanother type of coordinate construction.
This rule willapply when the system translates "she has long hair andbeautiful eyes".have(X) & subj(X,S) &HUMAN(S) & obj(X,Y) & -~mod(Y,_) & coord(Y,Y1)& rood(Y1,_) & PART_OF_BODY(Y1), expand(Y,X)D iscuss ion  Our coordinate xpansion detection workseven if a coordinate structure has more than two con-stituents.
What we have to consider is an appropri-ate expansion algorithm.
For example, in translating(4a), an appropriate xpansion should keep coordinationof "shoes" and "stockings", as shown in (45), becauseboth satisfy a semantic onstraint on which the systemchooses "haku" as the translation of "wear".
Otherwisereorganizing a coordination in the generation phase isinevitable.
(4a) She wears a hat, stockings and shoes.
(4b) She wears a hat and wears stockings and shoes.Reorganization of a coordination in the target languagedoes not only occur as outlined in the above case.
Sincethe coordinate xpansion is completely separate from theactual transfer process, transfer ules which do not causeproblems might be used.There is still an open problem to be solved with regardto the transfer of coordination with "expansion"; expan-sion is not always straightforward.
There is often a casewhere coordinate xpansion is impossible without deepunderstanding of the sentences, or it is impossible in thatit may change their semantic structures.
For example,the sentence (55) cannot be the expansion of (ha) thoughit seems so at first glance.
(ha) I saw a group of men and women.
(55) I saw a group of men and I saw a group of women.6.
Conc lus ion  and  fu ture  workIn this paper, we showed how complex structural changesin transfer are treated within our logic-based transfermodel, in which the target linguistic description is ob-tained from the source description in a non-destructivemanner.
These types of structural changes cause a prob-lem when they co-occur and their transfer rules are in-teracted.
We also discussed a problem in transferringcoordinate structures and presented an extended trans-fer model with coordinate xpansion.One of our current concerns is to implement our transfermodel in a parallel processing framework.
Our currentalgorithm for transfer and its implementation have a pro-cedural aspect of operation.
That  is, the sense of "logic"in the name of our model has not been fully achieved.We think that the search for parallel implementation willlead to "logic-based transfer" in the true sense.Re ferences1.
H.Alshawi, D.Carter and M.Rayner: 'Translation byQuasi Logical Form Transfer', in Proc.
o\]2gth ACL Con-ference, Berkeley, 1991.2.
C.Copeland, et.al.
: 'The Eurotra Linguistic Specifica-tion', in Studies in Machine Translation and NaturalLanguage Processing Vol.
1, Office for Official Pubhca-tion of the EC, 19913.
R.Kaplan,K.Netter, et.al.
: 'Translations by StructuralCorrespondences', in Proc.
of 4th E-ACL Conference,Manchester, 1989.4.
S.Kinoshita and J.Tsujii: 'Framework for IncorporatingKnowledge into Machine Translation', in Proc.
off Work-shop on FGNLP, Kyoto, 1991.5.
S.Kinoshita: Transffer off Coordinate Structures, CCLReport 91/13, 1991.6.
J.Lindop and J.Tsujii: Complex Transffer in MT: A Sur-vey off Examples, CCL/UMIST Report 91/5, 1991.7.
S.Nirenburg: Machine Translation, Cambridge Univer-sity Press, 1987.8.
J.D.Phfllips, et.al.
: 'Linguistic Context for MachineTranslation', in Proc.
of SICONLP '90, Seoul, 1990.9.
S.Sato and M.Nagao: 'Memory-based Translation', inProc.
of COLING 90, Helsinld, 1990.10.
J.Tsujii et.al.
: 'Lexical Transfer based on BilingualSigns: Towards interaction during transfer', in Proc.
off5th E-ACL Conference, 1991.11.
\].Tsujii, et.al.
: An Architecture for Machine Transla-tion, CCL/UMIST Report 92/1, 1992.12.
G.van Noord, et.al.
: 'The MiMo2 Research System',in Proc.
of the 3rd International Confference on TMI,Austin, 1990.13.
H. Watanabe: 'A Model of a Transfer Process UsingCombinations of Transfer Rules', in Proc.
off PRICAI'90, 1990.260
