SPONTANEOUS SPEECH COLLECT ION FOR THE CSR CORPUSJared Bernstein and Denise DanielsonSRI InternationalMenlo Park, California 940251.
ABSTRACTAs part of a pilot data collection for DARPA's Continuous SpeechRecognition (CSR) speech corpus, SRI International experi-mented with the collection of spontaneous speeoh material.
Thebulk of the CSR pilot data was read versions of news articles fromthe Wall Street Journal (WSJ), and the spontaneous sentenceswere to be similar material, but spontaneously dictated.
In the firstpilot portion of the data collection, twelve subjects including ninejournalists were located, and instructed in how to dictate using thedata collection hardware and software at SRI.
These talkers pro-duced 1280 spontaneous sentences.
In general, compared to readmaterial, the spontaneous material took about wo to three timesmore subject time to produce and about four times more experi-menter time to produce, package, and ship.
The paper providesdetails on the materials, ubjects and procedures used in the study,and it describes the results in terms of speaker reaction and dataproduction.
The methods described are sufficient to collect fluentspontaneous recordings at a predictable rate.
The spontaneousmaterial differs in several characteristics from WSJ material; para-graphs and sentences tend to be longer, more word types are used,and by most measures, the material is more variable.2.
INTRODUCTIONThe CSR (Continuous Speech Recognition) Corpus collec-tion can be considered the successor to the Resource Man-agement (RM) corpus \ [ l \ ] ,  it focuses on the furtherdevelopment of speech recognition technology towardlarger or open vocabularies, peaker and task indepen-dence, and is moving toward spontaneous speech.
Thedefault task in the pilot collection has been dictation ofnewspaper articles as if for the Wall Street Journal (WSJ).Thus, the largest part of the effort to collect a pilot versionof the CSR corpus has been recording people readingselected short passages from the WSJ itself.
The pilot CSRcorpus was designed, however, such that a significant por-tion of the material was to be spontaneous and a subset ofthe speakers who read WSJ texts also were asked to dictatespontaneous articles in the WSJ style.This paper describes the methods used in the collection ofthe spontaneous portion of the CSR corpus.3.
METHODUser Interface.
The speech data collection was performedwith user interface software designed by Mike Phillips forcollection of read speech \[2\].
MIT provided this softwareto SRI, where it was slightly modified for use in collectingspontaneous speech.
The interface requires a talk button tobe pushed and held down in order to record speech; anotherbutton must be explicitly pushed to accept he sentence.The most recent sentence is always available for playback.Material Selection.
Several issues seemed important in theselection of materials to be used in story generation.1.
It seemed appropriate to select material that wouldmatch the content of the WSJ, its vocabulary and top-ics.2.
To ensure that speech is tngy spontaneous and not justread from source material, it is best to provide materialthat gives enough information, without giving it in aformat hat would encourage subjects just to read.
Sub-jects need to come up with their own wording.3.
Subjects hould be set up to maximize the likelihood ofsuccess.
Any reasonable accommodation that producesappropriate spontaneous material is acceptable.The materials provided to subjects changed over the courseof the experiment.
At first, subjects were provided withrecent news articles or letters to the editor and were askedto prepare an outline of the material, put aside the originalarticle, and then dictate from the outline or notes.
In latersessions most subjects preferred to work from notes orpress releases they had brought hemselves and were,therefore, familiar with.
Thus, subjects were encouraged tocome to the session with topics and notes prepared.Subjects.
Twelve subjects generated spontaneous newsstories.
Four of the twelve generated two sets each of 80spontaneous sentences.
The other eight provided one seteach of 80 sentences.
The twelve included seven journalists373and three SRI employees.
Three journalists were from theStanford Daily and four from the Peninsula Times-Tribune(a local daily).
The other two subjects were one journalistcurrently doing public relations work under contract and aformer broadcast journalist.Subject Recruiting and Selection.
We chose to try to usejournalists for this task.
Not only did the particular task ofnews-style dictation lend itself to the use of journalists, butnews writers seemed likely to be able to perform the taskwithout undue ffort.Preference was given to individuals who had dictationexperience.
Given time constraints, we were unable to limitsubjects to only those with dictation experience, and doingso might very well have also imposed an age constraint:most journalists who were in the field prior to the prolifera-tion of PCs and word processors have dictated news stories;younger journalists have not.We found subjects by first contacting a couple of localnewspapers and speaking with the editor-in-chief or who-ever they referred us to.
After briefly describing the projectand our needs, we asked for feedback about he level ofinterest that we could expect at what rate of pay.
Journalistsat major papers (where we would be more likely to findlarge numbers of speakers with dictation experience) typi-cally wanted $35-$50/hr.
At smaller papers we were able tofind interest in the $20-$30/hr.
ange.We were able to find enough people for the pilot study at arate of $20/hr.
Several of these speakers expressed an inter-est in coming back to do more dictation.Potential subjects were first screened over the phone.
Afterdescribing the project and the time commitment involved,we then asked the potential subject o "pick a topic of inter-est" - -  a story/column they are currently working on, or acurrent issue in the news - -  and dictate abrief story on thattopic over the phone.
We typically asked them to do thistwo or three times, to give us an idea of how easily theycould come up with material.Procedures.
On arrival at the first recording session, thesubject was asked to read a complete set of written instruc-tions.
The instructions are reproduced in the appendix.Next, subjects filled out a short information sheet aboutthemselves, including a description of any prior dictationexperience.The data collection software was then demonstrated, andthe subject was allowed to practice using the push-to-talkbutton.
The practice session included 1-2 paragraphs ofWall Street Journal read text without any verbalized punc-tuation, and 1-2 paragraphs with verbalized punctuation.For 10 of the 12 subjects, this was the only exposure to theWall Street Journal read text material prior to producingspontaneous data.The first real data recorded from each subject consisted of40 adaptation sentences that were read immediately follow-ing the practice session.
Thus, by the time subjects wereready to start the spontaneous speech collection sessions,they were already fairly comfortable with the various con-trois available on the MIT collection software, includingfunctions for reviewing, accepting, and rejecting utterances.The remainder of the first recording session was devoted tospontaneous speech collection.
Each set of 80 sentencescomprised one session of 40 sentences with no verbalizedpunctuation (NVP) and one session of 40 sentences withverbalized punctuation (VP) \[3\].
All subjects generated the40 sentences without punctuation first.
The decision toorder the collection this way was based on subject feedbackregarding anticipated ifficulty of the two tasks, and theexperimenter's observations that subjects did in fact tend tohave more difficulty with the verbalized punctuation condi-tion.Subjects were instnacted to imagine that they were using areal speech-to-text dictation system to generate news-stylearticles as though intending to submit he articles for publi-cation in a major newspaper.
They were told that they couldassume that the articles would be reviewed and editedbefore publication, so that they did not need to worry aboutmaking it perfect.One goal of this project was to learn something about whatpeople would expect o do naturally if they were using aspeech-to-text dictation system.
For this reason, the experi-menter tried to control the process as little as possible.
Sub-jects were allowed to use their own judgment as to whetheror not a sentence was "good" and should be accepted.The first two or three subjects were handed a variety ofsource materials and instructed to find topics of interest, jotdown some notes, and then dictate from the notes.
Aftersome experience and feedback from these first few subjects,the experimenter began instructing subjects over the phonein advance to "come prepared."
We briefly described thetask as one in which the subject would be asked to make upand dictate short news-style articles.
We asked that theyhave several topics in mind about which they could createbrief stories.Subjects were encouraged touse ideas from current storiesthey were working on and from recent articles they haddone.
It was suggested that hey bring notes to work from aslong as those notes were in "cryptic" form; they were spe-cifically instructed not to bring in completed articles ornotes in sentence form.
Most subjects found this to be amuch easier task than working from the SRI-supplied mate-rials; however, the ability to control for content/vocabularywas lost.
Most subjects thus did the majority of their "sto-374des" from ideas they brought with them, and turned to thenewspapers and other material provided by SRI only if theyran out of ideas before finishing the required 40 sentences.Subjects returned for at least one additional recording ses-sion during which they completed reading the text portionof the collection, and also read back their own spontane-ously produced sentences.
The four subjects who generateda second set of 80 spontaneous sentences did so after hav-ing completed a significant amount of read text.The schedule of a typical subject, then, was as follows:Day 1:Read instructionsCollection software demonstrated withNVP and VP WSJ material40 adaptation sentences40 spontaneous NVP40 spontaneous VPDay 2:Read WSJRead spontaneous4.
RESULTSThe results of SRI's work with spontaneous speech are ofthree types: information about he cost in time or money tocollect he material; information about he characteristics ofthe spontaneous material itself; and information about sub-ject reactions to the procedure.4.1.
Production CostA principal concern about he collection of spontaneousspeech is that the cost is high and variable.
Because thepilot CSR data collection had pairs of collection sessionsfrom the same speaker, one spontaneous session andanother session during which a clean, written version of thisspontaneous material was read, we have a good basis ofcomparison for the cost of spontaneous vs.  read speech.Figure 1 displays the distributions of recording sessiontimes in four collection conditions: pontaneous vs .
readspontaneous, with verbalized punctuation (VP) vs .
no ver-balized punctuation (NVP).
The recording session time isapproximated bythe difference in time between the com-pletion of the first sentence and the last sentence in a 40-sentence session.
This measure leaves out the variablepreparation time that often occurs before the first spontane-ous sentence in a session.
This preparation time was typi-caily about 5 minutes.
There are 16 sessions in each of the4 conditions.1412108642z 0O_14LUo~ 121010READ SPONTANEOUSAverage=IS minutesNVP<VP20 30 40 50 60 70TIME - minuteso~z_ocoo~uJ~986420864200 10SPONTANEOUSAverage = 41 minutes20 30 40 50 60 70TI ME - minutesFigure 1.
Elapsed time per recording session.Actual observed speaker time was about 5.5 hours forspeaker-independent t st conditions, which is slightly aboveour initial estimates.
Data collection supervisor time forsetup, microphone check, transcription, tape processing,scheduling, and other miscellaneous activities (includingthe elapsed ata collection/speaker time) was approximately37512 hottrs for one such subject, as shown below.Times for CSR Pilot Collection TasksDescription MinutesSpeaker time (5.5 hours):Initial instruction and practice 3040 adaptation sentences 30160 read sentences (5k and 20k) 10080 read spontaneous sentences 5080 spontaneous sentences 120Monitor time (12 hours per subject):Collection time 330Transcribe 240 read sentencesto .dot 90Transcribe 80 spontaneoussentences to .ptx .dot 160Directory, shortpack, exabyte 90Scheduling, miscellaneous 40It may help to make a direct comparison of the time it takesto collect and transcribe (orthographically) a single set of80 sentences, when one set is read and the other is sponta-neous.
The following table gives times required for collec-tion itself (Subject & Experimenter), and the transcriptiontimes for generating prompt exts (.ptx) and detailed ortho-graphic forms (.dot).Collection and Transcription Timefor One Set of 80 SentencesDescription Read SpontaneousCollection (S&E) 100 min 240 minxcribe to .ptx - -  120 minxcribe to .dot ~ 40 minTotal 2 hours 6.7 hoursThere were several additional costs for the spontaneousspeech.
The speaker cost is higher because we needed topay more to attract journalists.
The spontaneous recordingsalso involve costs for preparing materials.
These costs wereminimal for this study, but for future efforts we expect ogather or create "fact sheets" and other prompt materials.4.2.
CharacteristicsThe material generated in the spontaneous sessions differedfrom real WSJ text.
The differences occurred in severalcharacteristics: ontent, vocabulary, paragraph size, speechrate.
Furthermore, there were differences in both centraltendency and in variability in most measures.
The follow-ing table lists several obvious differences.Description WSJ-20 SpontaneousTopics per session 11.2 6.5Words 22,374 27,757Sentences 1,293 1,280Words/sentences 17.3 21.7Unique words (types) 4,062 4,905Average types/session 389 406Range of types/session 337--426 281-513Punctuation types 16 32First, the number of different paragraphic topics that com-prise a 40-sentence s ssion was 11 in the WSJ material andabout 6 or 7 in the spontaneous material.
That is, spontane-ous speakers like to keep going on a topic for six or sevensentences, whereas the WSJ cuts stories into paragraphs ofabout hree or four sentences.
Second, in a similar numberof sentences, the spontaneous talkers used more words andmore different words to construct longer sentences.
Even atthe session level, speakers used more different word types.Third, and most characteristically, the sessions were muchmore variable in the spontaneous condition.
The WSJmaterials are relatively uniform, and the spontaneous mate-rials are more varied, both in the range of word types(shown in the table) and in sentence l ngth and other mea-sures not shown.Figure 2, below, displays peech rate measured for materialsrecorded in four different conditions: read WSJ text vs .spontaneous text; and each with verbalized punctuation vs.with no verbalized punctuation.
The speech rate for thesematerials i approximated by dividing the number of wordsin a sentence (including verbalized punctuation words) bythe length of the file in time, without any endpointing orallowance for sentence internal silence.
Thus, the measureis adequate for comparisons here, but cannot be taken asabsolute or be compared to other figures.As can be seen in Figure 2, the speech rates observed areslower for spontaneous speech than for read speech, and areslower for speech produced with verbalized punctuation ieither form.
Again, the spontaneous material is also morevariable than the read material.37603Zo0303U.I03864208642060READ WSJ80 100 120 140 160 180-WORDS/MINUTE03Z_oW86420864206OSPONTANEOUS80 100 120 140 160 180~WORDS/MINUTEFigure 2.
Speech rate in nominal words/minute4.3.
Subject ReactionMaterials.
Subjects were most comfortable working fromtopics and materials that they brought with them.
Mostwere not able, however, to be prepared on enough topics todo all of their collection this way.
The next favored methodwas to use news releases or "fact sheets," as most journal-ists are accustomed to using these as sources.An advantage ofhaving subjects come with their own ideasand materials was that they tended to be more fluent andable to perform the task with greater ease when talkingabout topics with which they were familiar.
In addition,they tended to produce longer and more complex sentenceswhen covering familiar topics.Verbalized Punctuation.
The dictation with verbalizedpunctuation was perceived by subjects to be more difficultthan dictation without punctuation.
Subjects also reportedthat including all punctuation did not seem natural.
Speak-ers did seem to become more comfortable with the task withpractice, but their use of punctuation was inconsistent.
Cer-tain types of punctuation, such as quotation marks and com-mas used to offset items in a series, were seldom left out.Other punctuation marks, such as hyphens and dashes, wereoften omitted or used incorrectly.The actual collected corpus does not really reflect he extentof these inconsistencies since either the speaker or the mon-itor would often catch the worst cases and the speakerwould repeat the whole utterance.Collection Paradigm.
Speakers complained about havingto speak one sentence at a time.
They wanted to speak non-stop while the thoughts were there, and not have to wait forthe machine.Several subjects observed that a more natural way of doingdictation would be to speak in paragraphs, but with thecapability to pause, i.e., stop recording while they think,then restart from the point where they left off.
With this typeof collection paradigm, some verbalized punctuation wouldbe natural.
In particular, it would seem natural to say"PERIOD" to indicate the end of one sentence beforebeginning the next.5.
CONCLUSIONSSeveral results are evident:1.
The task can be done and with a fairly predictable rate ofproduction.
The total cost per sentence is about hreeor four times greater than similar ead material.2.
The journalists do seem better at this task than others ub-jects of similar educational level.3.
Solicitations at local papers did not generate a large num-ber of interested subjects.4.
Subjects with prior dictation experience do better at thistask than those without such experience.5.
Subjects with more experience produced longer, morecomplex sentences.6.
Given the current editing tools, most subjects producerather smooth and fluent spontaneous materials, prima-rily by rejecting whole utterances.7.
The spontaneous material is spoken slower and is gener-ally much more variable than the read WSJ material.Summary.
Relatively fluent, spontaneously generated newsstories can be collected at about four times the cost of readmaterials.
Analysis of the materials is incomplete because377the co l lect ion was just  f in ished and because the most  impor-tant  analys is  wil l  be  done  by  the sites who use the data torun exper iments.Ongoing Research .
SR I  is cur rent ly  co l lec t ing  speechf rom an  add i t iona l  8 test  speakers .
The  cur rent  workinc ludes exper imentat ion  wi th  di f ferent order ing of  col lec-t ion sess ions ,  and  d i f ferent  mater ia l s  and  ins t ruct ions  forel ic it ing spontaneous speech.
Because of  the negat ive  feed-back  regarding the verba l ized punctuat ion condit ion,  we arehav ing  some of  the current  subjects  co l lect  an extra set of80 spontaneous  entences  w i th  no  ins t ruct ions  regard ingpunctuat ion.6.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSRI acknowledges support for this work from DARPA throughNIST contract 50SBNBOC6211 D.C. 1040.
The government hascertain rights to this material.
Opinions, findings, conclusions orrecommendations expressed here are those of the authors and donot necessarily reflect he views of any government agencies.1.2.3.7.
REFERENCESPrice, P., W. Fisher, J. Bernstein & D. Pallett 1988: "TheDARPA 1000-word Resource Management Database forSpeech Recognition," IEEE Prec.
ICASSP-88, pp.
651-654.Phillips, M., J.
Glass, J. Polifroni, & V. Zue 1992: "Collec-tion and Analyses of WSJ-CSR Data at M1T," in these Pro-ceedings: Fifth DARPA Workshop on Speech and NaturalLanguage, February 1992.Paul, D., & l.Baker 1992: "The Design for the WSJ-CSRCorpus," in the.so Proceedings: Fifth DARPA Workshop onSpeech and Natural Language, February 1992.8.
APPENDIX: SUBJECT INSTRUCTIONSYou will be asked to speak several different sets of sentencestoday.
The first set consists of 40 individual sentences.
These areall simple sentences which are fairly easy to read.
Some of themdo, however, use phrasing that may differ somewhat from the wayyou might normally say the same thing?
It is important that youspeak the sentences EXACTLY as they are written.The remaining santonco sets fall into 3 different categories.
Theorder in which these sets are collected may vary from one speakerto the next, but each speaker wiU contribute at least one set fromeach category?
The 3 categories of sentence sots are describedbelow:READ TEXT:  These sentences are taken from newspaper arti-cles, and are presented 3 - 8 at a time in paragraph form.
One  sen-tence at time will be highlighted, indicating that the system isready for you to read that sentence.Type 1: regular -- All punctuation marks are included in theirnormal fashion.
The punctuation marks were left in to help youspeak the sentences normally.
Do NOT explicitly pronounce anyof the punctuation marks.Type 2: verbal ized punctuat ion  - -  For those sentences, eachpunctuation mark is written out and should be spoken as a regularword?
For example " ,COMMA"  is pronounced "comma"  and".PERIOD" is pronounced "period.
"SPONTANEOUS DICTATION: This will be sentences that youmake up.
You will be presented with a variety of material that canbe used for ideas, and then asked to create news style "articles" asthough planning to submit hem to a newspaper for publication.For this task, we ask that you imagine that you are using a speechrecognition, or "speech-to-text" system to create real articles.
The"articles" that you create need not be complete - -  a total of 3 - 8sentences per topic is fine - -  but they should consist of a group ofsentences rdated to a single topic?Type 1: regular  - -  These sentences should NOT include spokenpunctuation.
Instead, we view these sentences as though thespeech-to-text process is a "first-pass" effort, i.e., you can assumethat appropriate punctuation would be inserted uring later editing.Type 2: verbal ized punctuat ion  - -  Again, these will be sen-tences that you make up, however in this set we ask that youexplicitly say any punctuation marks that you would want to haveappear in the article.
Examples of some of the punctuation marksthat we use (for the READ TEXT) are shown in the table below,but you may use whatever words you feel comfortable with.Punctuation marks are spoken as :, COMMA?
PER IOD" DOUBLE-QUOTE( LEFT-PAREN) R IGHT-PAREN- HYPHEN-- DASH: COLON; SEMI -COLONREAD SPONTANEOUS:For this set, you will be asked to road the sentences that you dic-tated previously.
Both versions (with and without verbalized punc-tuation) will be presented, just like the standard READ TEXT.NOTES: In the READ TEXT data there are a number of sentencefragments-- the data was taken from a database of news articlesand run through a screening process to eliminate most problemsentences, but in the attempt to automatically "clean up" the dataother problems were sometimes created.
A typical problem is thatthe algorithm used to break articles into distinct sentences was notterribly sophisticated.
In some cases, this results in a false sentencebreak when there is an abbreviation followed by a word beginningwith a capital etter.Although they may sound strange, these sentences should be readas they are presented, with no attempt made to "correct" the mis-takes.
Another type of problem is that because the sentences weretaken from a real newspaper, there are some strange words anduncommon proper names.
Just do your best to come up with a rea-sonable pronunciation.
Finally, all numbers have been written outto guide your pronunciation.
The numbers and some of the sen-tences may be a little difficult to sight-read, especially at first.
Youmay find that it helps to review the sentence silently before readingit.Please try to read the sentences as accurately and naturally as pos-sible.
You may repeat a sentence as often as necessary beforegoing on to the next sentence.
From time to time, your monitormay also ask you to repeat a sentence, or to play it back so she/hecan listen to it.Have fun, and thank you for participating in this project!378
