A Real-Time Spoken-Language Systemfor Interactive Problem SolvingPatti Price and Robert C.MooreSRI InternationalMenlo Park, CA 94025PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project, to develop a spoken-languageinterface to the Official Airline Guide database, is beingdeveloped along two overlapping research and develop-ment lines: one focussed on an SLS kernel for databasequery, and the other on the full interactive system.RECENT RESULTS?
Evaluation of SRI's NL, SLS, and speech recognitiontechnologies.
SRI's February-92 weighted error ratefor ATIS class A and D utterances combined was31.0% for NL and 45.4% for SLS.
SRI's February-92SPREC word error rate for all ATIS utterances was11.0%.
For the speaker-independent, closed 5K vo-cabulary CSR task, SRI achieved a 16.6% word errorrate in the verbalized punctuation test and a 17.1%word error rate in the non-verbalized-punctuationtest, using the standard bigram language model.?
Encouraging initial results in a study of verbal re-pairs in the ATIS MADCOW corpus; the study in-cluded analysis and classification of the repairs inthe corpus as well as a method using both patternmatching techniques and acoustic evidence to detectand correct he repairs.?
Implementation of RASTA filtering (high-pass fil-tering in the Log Spectral domain to remove time-invariant or slow moving linear channel effects) toimprove channel robustness.?
Experiments howing differences between sponta-neous and read speech and the need for includingspontaneous speech in trainir/g, development, andtest sets.?
Development of infrastructure necessary for dealingwith very large vocabularies and language modelssuch as those associated with the CSR corpus.?
Improvement in GEMINI natural-language process-ing system's linguistic coverage of a 2100-utteranceATIS traning corpus to 92% syntactic overage, 77%semantic overage.?
Development ofalgorithms for tracking evolving dis-course structure.
On the development set of theATIS corpus, we find these algorithms correctly de-termine the discourse context with greater than 90%accuracy.?
Improvements o the template matcher: new tem-plates, improved portability, more linguistic knowl-edge incorporated, reduced overgeneration, im-proved context handling, improved coverage ofdatabas'e retrieval component, all without signifi-cantly increasing response time, which is still lessthan a second.?
Analysis of data on human-machine problem solvingusing our SLS ATIS system: we have analyzed theeffect on user satisfaction and system performanceof system errors, user experience, and instructionsto users.
We have also explored trade-offs of timevs.speed and user satisfaction.?
Collection of data (speech, transcriptions, and log-files) using our SLS ATIS system.
To date this in-cludes 72 speakers, 2301 utterances, and 134 scenar-ios.?
Improvements in the SLS ATIS demo system, in-cluding better paraphrasing ofsystemn's understand-ing, easier to read displays, improved system errormessages, impler control of context mechanism.?
Development with MIT of a method for end-to-endevaluation that takes into account he whole inter-action; implementation f the method is in progress.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Fully integrate GEMINI into SRI's ATIS system.?
Explore tighter integration of speech and NL pro-cessing for better overall SLS performance.?
Improve speech recognition computational andword-accuracy performance for the ATIS and CSRdomains with better models of the channel, speaker,and spontaneous speech effects.487
