I n tonat iona l  Features  of  Local  and Globa l  D iscourseS t ructureJulia Hirschberg and Barbara Grosz2D-450, AT&T Bell Laboratories Division of Applied Sciences600 Mountain Avenue Harvard UniversityMurray Hill NJ 07974-0636 Cambridge MA 021381.
ABSTRACTWe present results of a study of the relationship betweenintonational features including pitch range, timing, andamplitude and aspects of discourse structure defined interms of Grosz and Sidner's (1986) model of discourse.We compare structural labelings of AP news text withprosodic/acoustic features examined from recordings ofthe same text read by a professional newscaster.
Wefind significant correlations between prosodic/acousticcharacteristics and both local and global aspects of dis-course structure identified by our labelers.
Our resultshave applications for speech synthesis and, potentially,for speech recognition.2.
INTRODUCTIONThe hypothesis that discourse structure is signalled byvariation in intonational features uch as pitch range,timing, and amplitude has been examined instudies uchas \[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7\].
However, as Brown and her col-leagues note \[2, p. 27\]: "... until an independent theoryof topic-structure is formulated, much of our argumentin this area is in danger of circularity."
In this paperwe examine the relationship between discourse structureand variation in intonational features using just such anindependent model of discourse structure, that proposedby Grosz and Sidner \[8\] (G&S).
We present results of anempirical study comparing intonational features of readtext with elements of both the local and global structureof discourse.
Our study has immediate application to thegeneration of appropriate intonational features for syn-thetic speech, and future applicability to the recognitionof discourse structure in speech recognition tasks.Our corpus consisted of AP news stories recorded by aprofessional speaker.
The intonational features we con-sidered included pitch range, contour, timing, and ampli-tude.
The discourse structural elements we examined atthe local level included parentheticals, quotations, tags,and indirect reported speech; at the global evel, we stud-ied discourse segmentation - -  the division of a discourseinto constituents hat provide the basis for determiningdiscourse meaning.
The discourses were labeled by twogroups: one group labeled from text; the other grouplabeled from text while listening to the recorded speech.In this paper, we describe similarities and differences inthe segmentations elicited in these two conditions.Our experiments provide support for three hypothe-ses.
First, instructions can be devised, based on theG&S model, that enable subjects to analyze discourseswith considerable similarity.
Second, discourse structureis marked intonationally, although the relationship be-tween structure and intonational features is a complexone; a given discourse structural feature may be sig-naled by several intonational features, either separatelyor in combination.
Third, not every intonational fea-ture which is varied to convey structural information isperceptually salient.3.
SCOPE OF THE STUDYAlthough computational theories of discourse make dif-ferent claims about the basis of discourse structure - -e.g.
coherence relations \[9, 10, 11, 12\], syntactic features\[13\], intentions \[8\] - -  all agree that utterances in adiscourse group together into segments and that the de-termination of discourse meaning depends crucially onidentifying the ways segments fit together.
However,discourse segment boundaries do not always align withparagraph boundaries or other orthographic markers intext.
And there have been no systematic studies of hu-man labeling of discourse segmentation.
As a result,attempts to apply theories of discourse structure havesometimes been frustrated by apparent ambiguities inthe structure of a single discourse.Thus, one goal of our study was to identify similaritiesand differences among labelers in the segmentation fdiscourses from text and speech.
We wanted to (1) deter-mine whether aset of instructions could be devised thatwould lead to consistency in segmentation across differ-ent labelers and different exts; (2) test the hypothesisthat spoken language is less ambiguous than text withrespect o discourse segment structure; and (3) identifyintonational features that were strongly correlated withdiscourse structure lements.We did not, of course, expect all labelings to be iden-441tical.
Just as a sentence may have multiple parses, adiscourse may have several plausible segmentations.
Thegoal of this part of our study was to determine the extentto which segmentations done by different people varied,identify those characteristics of a text that occasionedstructural ambiguity, and develop methods for compar-ing segmentations.Variation in pitch range has often been seen as convey-ing 'topic structure' in discourse.
Brown et al \[2\] foundthat subjects typically started new topics relatively highin their pitch range and finished topics by compressingtheir range; they hypothesized that internal structurewithin a topic was similarly marked.
Silverman \[3\] foundthat manipulation of pitch range alone, or in conjunc-tion with pausal duration between utterances, enabledsubjects to disambiguate r liably potentially ambiguoustopic structures.
Avesani and Vayra \[6\] also found vari-ation in range in productions by a professional speakerwhich appear to correlate with topic structure, and Ay-ers \[7\] found that pitch range appears to correlate moreclosely with hierarchical topic structure in read speechthan in spontaneous speech.
Duration of pause betweenutterances or phrases has also been identified as an in-dicator of topic structure by \[2, 1, 6\], with longer pausesmarking major topic shifts; \[4\], however, found no suchcorrelation i  his data.
Amplitude was also found by \[2\]to increase at the start of a new topic and decrease atthe end.
And speaking rate has also been investigated\[14\] as a correlate of structural variation.Our second goal was to examine the conjecture thatspeech provides information that enables a listener toidentify one of several possible analyses of a discourseas that which a speaker intends to communicate.
Intheir model, G&S propose that discourse be understoodin terms of the purposes that underlie it.
They arguethat three distinct components play a role in discoursestructure: the utterances composing the discourse di-vide into segments forming the LINGUISTIC STRUCTURE;this structure derives from a combination of the INTEN-TIONAL STRUCTURE, which is a structure of the pur-poses or intentions underlying the discourse, and theATTENTIONAL STATE which represents the entities andattributes that are salient during a particular portionof the discourse.
Discourses are analyzed as hierarchiesof discourse segments.
Each segment has an underlyingpurpose intended by the speaker/writer tobe recognizedby the listener/reader, the DISCOURSE SEGMENT PUR-POSE (DSP).
Each DSP contributes to the overall DIS-COURSE PURPOSE (DP) of the discourse.
For example,a discourse might have as its DP the intention that thelistener be informed that there was a plane accident, andindividual segments forming that discourse might haveas their DSP's intentions that the listener be informedthat the plane lost a piece of its tail (an intention con-tributing information about the accident) and that thepassengers were upset (an intention contributing infor-mation about the effect of this event).
DSP's may inturn be represented as hierarchies of intentions.
DSPsa and b may be related to one another in two ways: aDOMINATES b if the DSP of a is partially fulfilled by theDSP of b (equivalently, b CONTRIBUTES TO a).
Seg-ment a SATISFACTION-PRECEDES b if the DSP of a mustbe achieved in order for the DSP of b to be success-ful.
According to this model, part of understanding adiscourse is reconstructing the DP, DSPs and relationsamong them.We expected ifferences between the segmentations pro-vided by labelers who labeled solely from text and thosewho labeled from speech.
We also hoped to discover in-dependent, albeit indirect, evidence from intonationalvariation for the existence of segment boundaries, aswell as to provide information about the ways in whichintonational features might signal discourse segmenta-tion.
In addition to investigating relationships betweendiscourse structure and intonation at the global level,our study examined several local discourse-structural el-ements.For spoken language, the determination of discoursestructural units at the local level (e.g.
identifying paren-thetical constituents and quotations) may crucially af-fect meaning.
For example, the sentence 'The govern-meat claims the defendants knew that William Parkina private consultant hired by Teledyne Electronics waspaying bribes to Stuart Berlin the Navy official" may, de-pending upon how it is uttered, be interpreted to meanthat (a) the government claims that the defendants knewX (simple complement); (b) the government claims X,but the defendants knew, X (right-node-raising); or, (c)the defendants knew that the government claims that X(parenthetical) - -  where X='that William Parkin a pri-vate consultant hired by Teledyne Electronics was payingbribes to Stuart Berlin the Navy official'.
Because theselocally distinct units are often marked orthographicallyin text, it is presumably easier for readers to agree uponthem than on the identification of segment boundaries.Thus, looking for intonational features associated withthese local structures minimizes the potential for inter-labeler disagreement.
As a result, they may provide lessequivocal evidence of how speakers use intonational fea-tures to convey information about discourse structure.4.
THE EMPIR ICAL  STUDYThe corpus used in the empirical study consists of threeAP news stories, which had been recorded by a profes-442sional newscaster f om texts available to us.
The textsaveraged about 450 words in length and the recordingsaveraged about three and one-half minutes.
In this pa-per, we present our findings for one of these stories (ap-proximately 550 words and four minutes long), as labeledby seven labelers.4.1.
D iscourse  Segmentat ionWe developed a set of labeling instructions based onG&S for guiding labelers in segmenting the news sto-ries and identifying various local structural elements.Seven labelers participated in the study.
Four (GroupT) worked from the text alone.
Three others (Group S)labeled from the recording and the text; they were al-lowed to replay passages as many times as they wished.All of the labelers provided segmentations of one story;three members of Group T and two of Group S also la-beled local phenomena for this story.
Figure 1 illustratesa sample labeling for this text by one member of GroupT.
(Note that labelers were allowed to segment accordingto any division of the text they preferred, although mostused the orthographic sentence as their unit of analysisfor global structure.
The schema presented in Figure 1identifies only global structure.
)At the global evel, we asked labelers to identify segmentbeginnings and endings and to specify which other seg-ment (if any) the segment was embedded in.
In Figure1, the segments for one labeler are indicated by brack-etings of the text; hierarchical relationships among seg-ments are indicated by tabbing.
Any unit of analysis(phrase or utterance) in the global segmentations canbe described by one of five categories: segment initialsister (SIS), segment initial embedded (SIE), segmentfinal (SF), segment medial immediately following an SFutterance - -  i.e.
a POP (SMP),  or segment medial notfollowing a pop (SM).
In Figure 1, the first phrases of (a)and (c) illustrate SIS utterances; that of (b), (d), and (e)represent SIEs; SF examples are found at the end of (b),(e), and (f); the first phrase of (f) represents an SMP;and all other phrases within the segments (not identifiedschematically for reasons of space) would represent SMunits.
Differences among utterances in categories SIEand SiS will not be discussed in this paper; we will referto them together as segment beginnings (SBEG).Our instructions to labelers for labeling at the globallevel were cast in terms of the meaning and purposeof the text, because G&S stipulates that intentions arethe basic root of discourse segmentation.
At the locallevel, we examined five types of constituents: parenthet-icals, direct quotations and their tags, indirect reportedspeech, and speaker attributions for reported speech.
Weasked both Group T and Group S labelers to mark par-entheticals, ince these are not always disambiguated or-thographically.
In addition, we asked Group S to markdirect quotations.
Tags and speaker attributions wereidentified independently by the authors from the text.4.2.
In tonat iona l  Features  o f  D iscourseS t ructureTo identify intonational features in the read speech, welabeled the speech for accentuation and phrasing, ac-cording to Pierrehumbert's \[18\] theory of English into-nation, using WAVES speech analysis oftware \[19\].
Wethen calculated values for pitch range, as indicated (indi-rectly) by the fundamental frequency (f0) maximum forthe vowel of accented syllables in the phrase; 1amount off0 change between phrases, f0(phrase\[i\])/f0(phrase\[i+l\];amplitude, measured within the vowel of the syllablecontaining the phrase's f0 peak; difference in intensityfrom prior phrase, measured in decibels (db); contourtype; speaking rate, measured in syllables per second(sps); and pausal duration between phrases.
We usedas our primary unit of analysis Pierrehumbert's phrasalcategory of intermediate phrase.Each of these features was then examined as a poten-tial predictor of discourse structure.
~ We compared in-dividual and consensus labelings (i.e.
those on whichevery member of a group agreed) from Group T withthose from Group S for direct quotations, tags, indirectreported speech and attributions, parentheticals, andthe segment boundaries SBEG, SF, and SMP.
Here,we discuss only quotations, parentheticals and segmentboundaries.5.
RESULTS AND ANALYS IS5.1.
D iscourse  Segmentat ionWe found that discourses can indeed be segmented e-pendably using our instructions.
While no two segmen-tations were identical, we found no statistically signif-icant difference among six of our seven labelers for la-belings of SBEG phrases (using Cochran's Q).
For SFphrases, the seven labelers fell into two groups with nosignificant difference among members of each group; wehypothesize that each group settled upon a distinct butplausible interpretation of the text's structure.
Whilewe had hypothesized that we might find fewer differ-ences among members of Group S than among Group T1Results presented here are based on measurement off0 maximafor each phrase within the vowel of the syllable containing thephrase's f0 peak.
Results from a more conservative measurementat the vowel's amplitude max imum were similar.2 In results presented below we have either controlled for phrasalposition or performed ANOVAs with both phrasal position andthe intonational variable in question as factors, with statisticallysignificant results in each case for the latter.443Figure 1: Sample Segmentation from AP5, Labeler 1a.
\[A British Airways Concorde jet with one hundred Americans aboard lost a nine foot piece of its tail todaywhile trying to set a speed record on a world circling journey, but landed safely in Sydney.b.
\[William F. Buckley, Jr. and his wife were on board, CBS News reported.
The author andcommentator had helped organize the trip,which cost each passenger thirty nine thousanddollars.\]c. \[A British Airways spokesman said part of the rudder disintegrated while the supersonic jetwas flying at forty thousand feet at about fifteen hundred miles an hour nearly twice the speedof sound from Christ church, New Zealand.
"It experienced a shudder while over the TasmanSea that was thought o have been air turbulence," said Stanton.d.
\[He said the pilot was unaware of any problem until he was alerted by the controltower at Sydney's Kingsford Smith International Airport.e.
\[However, at least one passenger on the one thousand mile flight, whichlasted one hour and twenty five minutes, said the plane had shuddered andpassengers were tense.\]f. "It was a normal anding, there was no emergency," Stanton said.
"The pilot, Capt.David Leney, was told by the control tower that a piece of the tail was missing."
\]\]...\]labelers, this hypothesis was not in fact borne out.
Con-sistency across Group S labelers was no greater thanconsistency among all members of the two groups, forlabelings of either SBEG or SF.Many of the utterances on which labelers disagreed fellinto two categories: (1) utterances that might have initi-ated (or by themselves formed) small separate segmentsand were thus classified as SM by some labelers and SIEby others; (2) utterances classified as beginnings by somelabelers and SMP by others.
In the latter case, all ofthe labelers agreed that there was a discourse break ofsome kind, but they disagreed about the relationship ofthe utterance in question to the immediately (linearly)preceding segment; in the following section we providean analysis of some utterances fell into this class.5.2.
Intonational Correlates of DiscourseStructureResults for our first text are summarized in Table 1.
A'+' indicates the row's discourse structural element ischaracterized by higher values for the column's intona-tional feature; '-' indicates that the structural elementis characterized by relatively low values for the intona-tional feature.
For example, '+' in the 'Pitch Range'column for direct quotations indicates that these phrasesare generally higher in range than other phrases.As shown in Table 1, quoted phrases for Group T were,in general, uttered in a higher pitch range and withless increase in intensity than other phrases; quote-finalphrases were produced with a pronounced rop in inten-sity compared with other sentence-final phrases.
Quotedand non-quoted phrases in non-sentence-initial positiondiffered significantly in pitch range (means of 256 Hz vs.230 Hz; tstat=l.85; df=79; p<.035).
Quoted and non-quoted phrases also differed in amount of change fromprior phrase in db (1.92 db vs. 5.13 db; tstat=l.71;df=24;p<.05) and between quoted utterance-final ndother utterance-final phrases (-5.65 db vs. 1.47 db;tstat=2.87; df=4; p<.025).
Comparing these findingswith the intonational features of quotations Group Shad identified, we found that similar differences in pitchrange existed between quoted phrases identified fromspeech and other phrases, but no significant differencein intensity.For parentheticals identified by Group T, we also foundsignificant effects for range (195 Hz vs. 258 Hz;tstat=3.6?
;df=106;p<.001) and for percent change overprior phrase, 81% vs. 107%; tstat=2.29; df=105; p<.02)and intensity (-3.08 db vs..024 db, tstat=2.04, df=106,p<.025).
Our speaker uttered parenthetical phrasesin a low pitch range, dropping both pitch and inten-sity markedly from preceding phrases.
Group S's par-entheticals were even lower in range (166 Hz vs. 256Hz; tstat=3.38; df=106; p<.001) than those identi-fied by Group T and exhibited an even more pro-nounced decrease in pitch (70% vs. 106%; tstat=2.09;df=105; p<.02) and in intensity (-5.10 db vs. 0.13 db;tstat=2.09; df=105; p<0.02).
They also were utteredsignificantly more rapidly than other phrases (6.05 spsvs.
5.06 sps; tstat=l.94; df=106; p<0.03).444Table 1: Intonational Correlates of Discourse FeaturesDiscourse Features Pitch RangeT:Direct quotes +S:Direct quotes +T:Parentheticals - -S:Parentheticals - -T:SFS:SFT:SMP +S:SMP +T:SBEG +S:SBEGT:SBEG+SMP +S:SBEG+SMP +Intonational FeaturesPitch Range Ampl Db PrecChange Change Pause+++++SubsPause++Rate+We take as evidence that these intonational features wereused by Group S to identify local structure, the fact thatGroup S quotations are in general marked more reliablyby differences in pitch range than Group T quotations,and that Group S parentheticals are in general markedby larger differences in range and db change than GroupT's.
We obtained similar results for tags, indirect re-ported speech, and attributions for such speech.For global structure, we again found much similaritybetween intonational features correlated with Group T-identified iscourse lements and those correlated withdiscourse features identified by Group S - -  with onenotable exception which we discuss below.
However,for global structures we did not find that the intona-tional features Group S apparently found salient exhib-ited more pronounced differences over other phrases thanGroup T-related features.Intonational features of phrases labeled SF and SMPby Group T are virtually identical to those for phraseslabeled by Group S. For both Group T and Group S SF,we find a single intonational correlate, subsequent pause(for T: 1329 msec.
vs. 740 msec.
; tstat=2.22; df=24;p<0.02; for S: 1386 msec.
vs. 555 msec.
; tstat=3.38;df=17; p<0.002).
SF identified by Group S are followedby only slightly longer average pauses than those iden-tified by Group T - -  but the ratio of segment-endingpauses to pauses following other sentence-final phrasesis greater for Group S. For SMP, there is a significanteffect for pitch range (340 Hz vs. 296 Hz ; tstat=2.08;df=24; p<0.025) and for preceding pause (1329 msec.vs.
603 msec.
; tstat=2.66; df=15; p<0.01) for GroupT.
And for Group S we see significant effects for thesame factors, pitch range (337 Hz vs. 295 Hz; tstat=2.17;df=24; p<0.02) and preceding pause (1386 msec.
vs.
698msec.
; tstat=3.04; df=24; p<0.005).
These findings up-port similar results in \[2, 1, 3\].For SBEG, however, while pitch range, amplitude, rateand subsequent pause are significantly correlated withphrases identified by Group T, only preceding and sub-sequent pause variation distinguishes phrases identifiedas SBEG by Group S. In light of our findings for otherglobal discourse structure lements, we were puzzled atthe disparity between our groups with respect o SBEG.We were also puzzled that intonational features uch aspitch range, which previous production and perceptionstudies had found highly correlated with discourse struc-ture, had no effect on Group S judgments of SBEG.One explanation might be found by examining a su-perordinate category for SBEG.
Recall that phrases ofthe categories SBEG (SIE+SIS) and SMP share theproperty of not being part of the same discourse seg-ment as their preceding phrase; this more general class(SBEG+SMP)  encompasses shifts to a different seg-ment, some initiating new segments (SBEG) and oth-ers returning to an embedding one (SMP).
As we notedabove (Section 5.1), labelers often agreed on broader as-pects of structure while disagreeing over finer-graineddetails of the segmentation.
In fact, the intonationalfeatures characterizing phrases of this more general cat-egory for Groups T and S are indeed consistent withthe pattern we saw for intonational characteristics ofSF and SMP.
3 For SBEG+SMP identified by GroupT, there are significant effects only for pitch range (3363Note that  SBEG significantly outnumber SMP phrases whenwe collapse these categories, so our results do not  arise from thelatter category dominating the former.445Hz vs. 294 Hz; tstat=2.41; df=25; p<0.02) and subse-quent pause (25 msec.
vs. 169 msec.
; tstat=2.00; dr=25;p<0.03).
These same intonational features are also sig-nificantly correlated with SBEG+SMP identified byGroup S (pitch range: 325 Hz vs. 295 Hz; tstat=1.77;df=25; p<0.05; subsequent pause: 30 reset, vs.
183msec.
; tstat=2.34; df=25; p<0.02), as is preceding pause(1215 msec.
vs. 659 msec.
; tstat=2.82; df=24; p<0.005).Thus this more general category identifying 'segmenta-tion shifts' yields a comparison of intonational featuresfor Group T and Group S phrases which is consistentwith our other findings for global structure, as well aswith previous tudies of intonation and 'topic shift'.6.
CONCLUSIONSAt both the local and global levels of discourse, we foundevidence that structure is associated with intonationalvariation.
Our results provide support for several hy-potheses: First, instructions can be developed that en-able labelers to produce discourse segmentations withsignificant similarities.
Second, spoken language andwritten language provide different indicators of discoursesegmentation.
Third, various intonational features maybe employed by a single speaker to convey a given struc-tural element; most elements of discourse structure weexamined showed effects for more than one intonationalfeature.
Fourth, although various intonational featuresmay be utilized by a speaker to communicate a single el-ement of discourse structure, only some may be percep-tually salient.
And, fifth, different configurations of in-tonational features may be employed to convey the samediscourse information i  different contexts.
For while ouraggregate statistics how certain trends, not every tokenexhibits all these differences.REFERENCES1.
Lehiste, I.
Perception of sentence and paragraph bound-aries.
In Lindblom, B. and Oehman, S., editors,Frontiers of Speech Research, pages 191-201.
AcademicPress, London, 1979.2.
Brown, G., Currie, K., and Kenworthy, J.
Questions ofIntonation.
University Park Press, Baltimore, 1980.3.
Silverman, K. The Structure and Processing of Fun-damental Frequency Contours.
PhD thesis, CambridgeUniversity, Cambridge UK, 1987.4.
Woodbury, A .C .
Rhetorical structure in a centralalaskan yupik eskimo traditional narrative.
In Sherzer,J.
and Woodbury, A., editors, Native American Dis-course: Poetics and Rhetoric, pages 176-239.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge UK, 1987.5.
Woodbury, A. C. Phrasing and intonational tonologyin central alaskan yupik eskimo.
In Dunne, J., editor,Mid-America Linguistics Conference Papers, pages 3-40.
University of Oklahoma Press, Norman, 1989.6.
Avesani, C. and Vayra, M. Discorso, segmenti di dis-cors0 eun' ipotesi sull' intonazione.
In Att del ConvegnoInternazionale " Sull 'Interpunzione ", Florence, 1988.7.
Ayers, G. M. Discourse functions of pitch range in spon-taneous and read speech.
Presented at the LinguisticSociety of America Annual Meeting, 1992.8.
Grosz, B. and Sidner, C. Attention, intentions, andthe structure of discourse.
Computational Linguistics,12(3):175-204, 1986.9.
Hobbs, J.
Coherence and coreference.
Cognitive Sci.ence, 3(1):67-90, 1979.10.
Mann, W. and Thompson, S. Rhetorical structure the-ory: Toward a functional theory of text organization.Text, 8(3):243-281, 988.11.
Moore, J. D. and Paris, C. L. Planning text for advi-sory dialogues.
In Proceedings of the ~Tth Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 203-211.
University of British Columbia, June 26-29 1989.12.
Reichman-Adar, R. Extended person-machine i terface.AI  Journal, 22(2):157-218, March 1984.13.
Polanyi, L. A formal model of the structure of discourse.Journal of Pragmatics, 12, 1988.14.
Lehiste, I. Phonetic haracteristics of discourse.
Paperpresented at the Meeting of the Committee on SpeechResearch, Acoustical Society of Japan, 1980.15.
Grosz, B. J.
The representation a d use of focus in di-alogue understanding.
Technical Report 151, SRI Inter-national, Menlo Park Ca., 1977.
University of Californiaat Berkeley PhD Thesis.16.
Sidner, C. Towards a Computational Theory of DefiniteAnaphora Comprehension i English Discourse.
PhDthesis, The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1979.17.
Grosz, B., Joshi, A., and Weinstein, S. Providing a uni-fied account of definite noun phrases in discourse.
InProceedings of the ~lst Annual Meeting, pages 44-50,Cambridge MA, June 1983.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.18.
Pierrehumbert, J.
B.
The Phonology and Phonetics ofEnglish Intonation.
PhD thesis, Massachusetts Instituteof Technology, September 1980.
Distributed by the In-diana University Linguistics Club.19.
Talkin, D. Looking at speech.
Speech Technology, 4:74-77, April-May 1989.446
