NLP AND TEXT UNIVERSITY OF ANALYSIS AT THEMASSACHUSETTSWendy G. LehnertDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of MassachusettsAmherst, MA 01003PROJECT GOALSOur group is investigating a variety of techniques centeredaround the use of text corpora to support natural languageprocessing applications.
We are interested in informationextraction from text, text classification, and knowledgeacquisition from text corpora.
Our goal is to developtechnologies that can be readily ported across domains andscaled up with a minimal amount of manual engineering.In particular, we are experimenting with various kinds ofstatistical profiles and case based reasoning systems inorder to facilitate:?
semantically-oriented dictionary construction?
the analysis of complex sentence structures?
complex domain discriminations?
specific aspects of discourse analysisAlthough it is doubtful that all manual knowledgeengineering can be eliminated from the development cycleof practical NLP systems, we believe that minimalamounts of manual engineering can be highly leveragedwhen used in conjunction with a suitable text corpus.Given a specific text processing application and a textcorpus that is representative of the target exts, we areexperimenting with different aspects of systemdevelopment that can be fully or partially automated.RECENT RESULTSUsing the UMass/MUC-3 system implementation as astarting point, we have been looking at the problem of textclassification as it pertains to domain relevancy.
Based on afully-automated semantic analysis of the MUC-3 texts, wehave developed statistical profiles to distinguish texts thatdescribe legitimate terrorist events from texts that are "nearmisses" with respect o the domain definition.
Using theseprofiles, we can discriminate new texts with relatively highdegrees of recall and precision (as high as 97% recall with93% precision on one test run of 100 texts).We have also been looking at case-based reasoning (CBR)techniques and evaluating the utility of CBR inconjunction with the MUC-3 text corpus.
Drawing onceagain from the UMass/MUC-3 system, we have runadditional experiments on our CBR-based consolidationmodule in order to better understand its capabilities.
In onesuch experiment, we determined that the CBR module iscapable of producing recall and precision scores for incidenttypes that exceed the recorded performance l vels of all theMUC-3 systems (85% recall with 91% precision).
Ourown UMass/MUC-3 system posted 77% recall with 81%precision on incident ypes.
Unfortunately, comparableperformance improvements have not been obtained for anyother MUC-3 template slots.In a separate CBR effort, we have designed a new CBRmodule that locates referents for the relative pronoun "who"in the MUC-3 texts.
Operating with 75-90% hit rates, thissystem outperforms our original hand-coded heuristics.Interestingly, it tends to make most of its mistakes onconvoluted sentences that are confusing to human readers.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARWe expect o continue our ongoing investigations in eachof the three areas mentioned above.
We want to furtherrefine our text classification profiles and investigate theintegration of these capabilities back into a completeinformation extraction system (such as the UMass/MUC-4system).
We hope to experiment with variations on ourUMass/MUC-3 consolidation component to see if aspectsof that capability can assume a more prominent role in ouroverall system design.
We will also continue ourinvestigations with CBR-based iscourse analysis and see ifwe can generalize this technique from relative pronounresolution to other problems associated with scoping andstructural mbiguities.More generally, we hope to gain a greater understanding ofselective concept extraction as a sentence analysistechnique, both in terms of its portability across domains,and its inherent limitations within specific text processingapplications.489
