RESEARCH IN  NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSINGRalph Grishman, Principal InvestigatorDepartment of Computer ScienceNew York UniversityNew York, NY 10003PROJECT GOALSOur general objective has been the enhancement of tech-niques for extracting information and retrieving docu-ments from natural anguage text.
Our focus has beenon methods which automatically learn syntactic and se-mantic properties of the language used in particular do-mains, and on techniques for enhancing the robustness ofnatural anguage analyzers.
This work covers a numberof areas; we summarize our accomplishments and plansfor each area below.INFORMATION EXTRACTIONA major portion of our effort over the past year wasdevoted to participation i  the Third Message Under-standing Conference (MUC-3).
As the messages involved(newspaper reports of terrorist activity) were signifi-cantly more complex than those for MUC-2, a number ofenhancements were required to our information extrac-tion system.
These included extensions to our grammar,use of a commercial machine-readable dictionary (theOxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary) as our primarysource of lexical information, and several additional tech-niques for recovery in the event that an entire sentencecannot be analyzed syntactically or semantically.
Theenhancements were described in detail in the MUC-3Proceedings.
Substantial effort was also required to de-velop a semantic model of the terrorist domain.
Theperformance of the resulting system compared favorablyto others participating in MUC-3.
We are currently de-veloping further system enhancements for participationin MUC-4 in June of 1992.PARSER EVALUATIONTo assess alternative techniques for improving parsingperformance, we have applied a metric of parsing qual-ity suggested by Ezra Black.
Using this metric, we com-pared parses produced by the Univ.
of PennsylvaniaTree Bank for a portion of the MUC-3 corpus againstthose produced by our system (with some automaticrestructuring of our parses to ~ improve their alignmentwith the Tree Bank).
We evaluated a number of meth-ods for improving parser performance, including fittedparses, closest attachment ofmodifiers, hypothesis merg-ing, stochastic grammars, and stochastic part of speechtaggers.
Most of these results will be reported at theThird Conf.
on Applied Natural Language Processing.ACQUIS IT ION OF  SELECT IONALPATTERNSWe performed a syntactic analysis of the MUC-3 cor-pus (automatically, without selectional constraints), andperformed a frequency analysis of the co-occurrence pat-terns to identify the common semantic patterns.
Whenthese patterns were used as the basis for selectional con-straints in further parsing, they were found to do slightlybetter than manually prepared constraints.
We intendto extend this technique to substantially arger corporain the coming year.DOCUMENT RETRIEVALWe have continued our research on using syntactic anal-ysis to enhance keyword-based document retrieval, bothby identifying larger patterns than single words andby automatically discovering term similarity relationsfrom word co-occurrence patterns in a large corpus.When applied to a small corpus of computer scienceabstracts, modest improvements in performance weredemonstrated; these are reported in a separate paperin these proceedings.
Over the coming year we intend toapply this technique to much larger corpora as part ofthe Text Retrieval Evaluation Conference.MULTI -L INGUAL SYSTEMSWe are continuing our work, sponsored jointly withthe National Science Foundation, on Japanese-Englishsublanguage-based machine translation.
We completeda small system for translating programming languagetexts, which also incorporated the reversible grammartechnology we had previously developed.
Over the nextyear we intend to perform initial experiments for dis-covering transfer ules from parallel bilingual corpora.We are also developing a Spanish version of our infor-mation extraction system, in order to better understandthe problems of porting such a system across languages.482
