Evaluation and Analysis of Auditory Model Front Endsfor Robust Speech RecognitionProgram Summary*Richard  P.  L ippmann,  P r inc ipa l  Invest igatorLincoln Laboratory,  M.I .T.Lexington, MA 02173-9108Program GoalsThe purpose of this work is to integrate anumberof auditory model front ends into a high-performanceHMM recognizer, to test and evaluate these frontends on noisy speech, and to analyze the results inorder to develop a more robust front end which maycombine features of a number of the current auditorymodel-based systems.BackgroundThis project was motivated by the need for im-proved speech recognition in noise, and by expec-tation that auditory model front ends could makerecognition more robust to noise, microphone vari-ation, and speaking style.
The project began inFY91 with the initial goal of implementing, evalu-ating, and comparing four promising auditory frontends: (1) the mean-rate and synchrony outputs ofS.
Seneff's auditory model; (2) the ensemble intervalhistogram (EIH) model developed by O. Ghitza; (3)the IMELDA model due to M. Hunt; and (4) an audi-tory model developed by J. Cohen.
The initial efforthas included implementation and integration of thefirst three models with a Lincoln HMM recognizer,and testing with speech in white noise and in a back-ground of speech babble.with white noise and speech babble background.
Ascompared with the mel-cepstrum technique, the au-ditory models have similar performance at high SNRand slightly better performance at low SNR.
In orderto select the best features from each front end, di-mensionality reduction techniques, including LinearDiscriminant Analysis (LDA) and Principal Compo-nents Analysis (PCA) have been implemented.
LDAhas been applied to obtain a transformation matrixfor IMELDA, with the transformation matrix devel-oped using 100,000 labeled speech frames (1,000 sen-tences) from the TIMIT corpus.
Testing of IMELDAis about to begin on the TI-105 corpus.PlansPlans include: (1) experiments on the TI-105corpus in noise using IMELDA; (2) obtaining Cohen'sfront end and integrating it with the HMM system;(3) experiments with all front ends on the effect ofspectral variability due to talking style in TI-105; (4)exploring the effect of dimensionality reduction in allthe front ends; and (5) continuous speech recognitionexperiments on the Resource Management corpus.Recent AccomplishmentsThe Seneff and EIH front ends have been im-plemented and integrated with an HMM system, andhave yielded promising results on the TI-105 stressedspeech corpus (a 105-word vocabulary isolated-wordcorpus which was collected at Texas Instruments),*This work was sponsored by the Defense Advanced Re-search Projects Agency.
The views expressed are those of theauthor  and  do not reflect the official policy or position of theU.S.
Government.475
