REAL-TIME SPEECH RECOGNITION SYSTEMMitchel WeintraubSRI InternationalSpeech Research and Technology ProgramMenlo Park, CA, 94025PROJECT GOALSSRI and U.C.Berkeley are developing hardware for a real-time implementation f spoken language systems (SLS).Our goal is to develop fast speech recognition algorithmsand supporting hardware capable of recognizing continuousspeech from a bigram or trigram based 10,000 word vocab-ulary or a 1,000 to 5,000 word SLS system.RECENT RESULTSThe special-purpose ystem achieves its high computationrate by using special-purpose memories and data paths, andis made up of the following several components:?
A special-purpose HMM-board with eight newlydesigned integrated circuits that does the HMMinner-loop rocessing to implement the word-recog-nition algorithms.?
An output-distribution board made of off-the-shelfcomponents for computing HMM discrete-densitystate-output probabilities.?
A multi-processor TMS32030 board for computingthe statistical language processing.
This board has acustom high-speed interface to the HMM-board.?
A general-purpose CPU board to perform systemcontrol.?
A DSP board with A/D convertor for computing thefeature xtraction.?
A Sun workstation for computing the spoken lan-guage system database r trieval and human machineinterface.SRI and U.C.
Berkeley's recent accomplishments onthisproject include:?
Completed the construction ofa working hardwareprototype.
This prototype has been demonstratedrunning the Resource Management (RM) task aswell as the Airline Travel Information System(ATIS) task.?
Began intensive use of the hardware for a real-timeAirline Travel Information System (ATIS) task.?
Completed the design and construction of a secondgeneration multiprocessor TMS32030 grammar pro-cessing board.
Testing is currently in progress.?
Revised and corrected errors in several of the cus-tom VLSI chips that are used for the HMM word-recognition processor.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Complete the construction and testing of the secondgeneration multiple-processor TMS32030 boardwith a high I/O bandwidth to interface with the spe-cial-purpose HMM-board.?
Implement multiple types of grammars using thishardware.?
Collect data about man-machine speech interactionsusing the real-time hardware.?
Integrate the real-time recognizer into our researchto shorten the development cycle for new systems?
Evaluate the current architecture to determine thecomputational nd algorithmic bottlenecks.?
Deliver a hardware prototype to DARPA.486
