A NAT IONAL RESOURCE GRAMMARJerry R. HobbsArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI InternationalMenlo Park, California 940251.
THE PROBLEM AND ITSSOLUTIONThe syntax of English is largely a solved problem.
Yetall natural anguage projects devote a large amount oftheir effort to developing rammars.
The reason for thissituation is that there is no very large, generally avail-able grammar of English based on current echnology--unification grammar.
The solution is to develop a verybroad-coverage National Resource Grammar in a unifi-cation formalism, perhaps under the auspices of the Lin-guistic Data Consortium (LDC) and freely available toits members.What do we mean when we say syntax is a solved prob-lem?
The syntactic structure and the correspondingpredicate-argument, or operator-operand, relations areworked out for a great majority of grammatical construc-tions.
Moreover, they are largely agreed upon, mod-ulo some fairly easily resolvable theoretical differences inrepresentation.
Syntax is still a healthy area of research,hut most of the work is concentrated onachieving moreelegant treatments and characterizing phenomena at theperiphery of the language.From our experience at SRI with the very broad-coveragegrammar DIALOGIC, we believe that it is possible to-day to build a grammar that has 95% coverage, withsome parse, of arbitrary English prose of the sort foundin newspaper articles.
That is, the desired parse may notbe the most highly ranked, but it would be somewherein the list of parses.
We estimate that with parse prefer-ence heuristics that have been developed at a number ofsites, the parser could rank the desired parse most highly60% to 65% of the time.
It is likely that with the use ofprobabilistic models and the proper training, this num-ber could be pushed up to 75% to 85%.
But the trainingwould require the existence of the broad-coverage ram-mar.2.
WHAT THE NATIONALRESOURCE GRAMMAR WOULDBEThe National Resource Grammar should include every-thing we know how to do well.
In particular, it shouldinclude the following features:?
Complete English inflectional morphology.?
A very broad grammatical coverage, including allthe subcategorization patterns, sentential comple-ments; complex adverbials, relative clauses, com-plex determiners and quantifiers, conjunction andcomparative constructions, and the most commonsentence fragments.?
Mechanisms for defining and applying selectionalconstraints, although the actual ontology would notbe provided, since that is too domain-dependent.?
A "quasi-logical form" defined for every construc-tion in the grammar.
The quasi-logical form wouldencode all operator-operand relationships, but notattempt o decide among the various quantifierscope readings.
It would be easily convertible intoother semantic representations.?
The most commonly used parse preference heuris-tics.?
An  optional routine for pronoun reference resolutionaccording to syntactic or centering criteria.?
An  optional routine for quantifier-scope generation,either generating all quantifier scopings from thequasi-logical form, or using various common heuris-tics for ranking the alternate scopings.?
A lexicon of several thousand words, including ex-amples of all lexical categories and subcategories de-fined by the grammar.The grammar should be?
Implemented in a unification grammar formalism.352* As modular as possible, for easy modification.?
As reflective as possible of current linguistic theory.?
As neutral as possible on controversial issues.?
Compatible with the classification scheme used inthe Penn Tree Bank.
(The third and fourth of these items exert pressure indifferent directions, of course, and where the conflict isunresolvable, the fourth should take priority.)
The sys-tem should include?
An efficient parser, programmed in C for portability.?
Convenient grammar development tools, for usersto extend the grammar as required in specializeddomains.?
Complete documentation on the grammar and onthe algorithms used.During the development of the National Resource Gram-mar, it should be continually tested on a large set of keyexamples.
Periodically, it should be tested on sentencestaken at random from the Penn Tree Bank.
Computa-tional linguists and potential users should be consultedregularly to make certain that the system produces anal-yses that are maximally useful to others.3.
USESAmong the uses of the National Resource Grammarwould be the following:?
To provide a convenient syntactic analysis compo-nent for researchers wishing to investigate otherproblems, such as semantics, pragmatics, or dis-course.?
To provide a quick and effective syntactic analysiscomponent for government agencies and members ofthe LDC and others implementing natural anguageprocessing applications.?
To serve as a basis for experimentation with stochas-tic models of syntactic analysis.?
To serve as an aid in the the annotation of sentencesin the Penn Tree Bank and other corpora.We believe, on the other hand, that a National ResourceGrammar should not in any way be required or imposedon research projects.
It should be just what it says--a resource.
We believe it should promote rather thanretard research on grammar and grammar formalisms.4.
ORGANIZAT ION OF THEPROJECTBy basing the effort on an existing, very broad-coveragegrammar, the development of very nearly the entire Na-tional Resource Grammar and its supporting systemcould be completed in one year.
Our guess is thatroughly 90% of the phrase structure rules and 70% ofthe constraints on the rules could be completed in thefirst year.
During the second year, the grammar couldbe put into the hands of a variety of users, who wouldbe consulted frequently, ensuring that the final productwas responsive to their needs.More specifically, we feel the first year's task could bebroken down into six different areas, each representingroughly two months' effort for the implementation f aninitial solution.
Further development of all aspects ofthe grammar, especially in response to comments frompotential users and an advisory committee of linguistsand computational linguists, would continue throughoutthe two years.
Completing the initial implementation ithe first year would give the developers sufficient ime torespond to this feedback.The six areas are as follows:1.
A core, skeletal grammar, which would allow thedevelopers to trace out the broad outlines of thegrammar and give them a tool for testing furtherdevelopments.2.
The structure of the noun phrase and adjectivephrase to the left of the head, including complexdeterminer and quantifier structures, and adjectivespecifiers.3.
The auxiliary complex, noun complements andpredicate complements, including cleft and pseudo-cleft constructions.4.
The structure of the verb phrase, subcategorizationand sentential complements for verbs and adjectives.5.
Relative clauses and other "wh" constructions.6.
Adverbials and other sentence adjuncts.?
To serve as a challenge to linguists and computa-tional linguists to handle the various phenomena inbetter ways.Conjunction and comparative constructions would behandled not as a separate item, but throughout the ef-fort.
It would be a bad idea, for example, to develop a353treatment of nonconjoined relative clauses in Month 3and a treatment of conjoined relative clauses in Month10, because the latter may force a complete rethinking ofhow the former was done.
Similarly, semantic interpreta-tion, the lexicon, mechanisms for selectional constraints,and parse preference heuristics would be implementedand documented in tandem with grammar development.Each of these phenomena is of course a huge problem,and worthy of years of investigation.
However, since atleast one treatment of each of the phenomena has al-ready been implemented, and encoding the current bestexisting treatment is what is required, we are confidentsuch a schedule could be met.
However, the developerswould have to be very sensitive to black holes, since syn-tax abounds with them, and more grammar developmentprojects have been derailed by them than have avoidedthem.Of course, an effort of this scope could not be done bycommittee, but it would be extremely useful to have anadvisory committee consisting of linguists and computa-tional linguists of a wide variety of theoretical orienta-tions.
The advisory committee would be solicited, beforeeach two-month period, for key examples and key treat-ments of the phenomena.
As the initial implementationin each area of the grammar is completed, the results,that is, the rules together with complete documentation,would be circulated to the advisory committee for a cri-tique.
Where this critique yielded clearly superior solu-tions to the problems, those solutions would be incorpo-rated into the implementation.5.
CONCLUSIONThere will always be researchers who continue to buildtheir own grammars, as they attempt o work out the-ories of more syntactic phenomena and to make exist-ing formulations more elegant.
But there axe a largenumber of other researchers who are building grammarswhen they want to be and should be working on someof the less understood problems in natural language pro-cessing, or when they have an application that needs tobe implemented.
As a result, research is retarded andapplications are delayed.
The availability of a NationalResource Grammar would free researchers topush on thefrontiers of the field and to move applications into theworkplace, rather than duplicating what has been doneoften before.After over thirty years of extensive research in linguisticsand computational linguistics on the syntax of English,it is time for the development of the National ResourceGrammar, reflective of the best that we know and avail-able for general use.354
