Microphone-Array Systems for Speech Recognition InputHarvey F. Silverraan, Principal InvestigatorLaboratory for Engineering Man/Machine Systems (LEMS)Division of EngineeringBrown UniversityProvidence, RI 02912ObjectiveAn understanding ofalgorithmic and engineering techniquesfor the construction fa high-quality microphone array systemfor speech input to machines is the goal of this project; itimplicitly assumes that wearing a head-mounted microphone,or sitting at a fixed location in front of a table microphone ismost often an unacceptable imposition for a user of a speechrecognizer.
Rather, the array system should electronicallytrack a particular talker in a small room having other talkersand noise sources and should provide a signal of qualitycomparable to that of the head-mounted microphone.
Inparticular, the project is focused on the measurement of small-room acoustic properties and the derivation of underlyingmathematical algorithms for the acoustic field, for talkertracking and characterization, for array layout, for correlatedand uncorrelated noise elimination, and for beamforming.Simultaneously, digital array systems are being designed,built, and used.ApproachThe current approach is one in which many of the issuesfor these systems are being investigated simultaneously.
Weare using a linear (1D) array to gather eal data for bothonline and offline experimentation with beamforming, lo-cation, tracking, and "talker elimination" algorithms.
Atthe same time, new 1D, 2D, and 3D arrays and associatedall-digital data processors are being completed, allowing thefacile acquisition of data from various transducers and acous-tic conditions.
Acoustic repeatability is deemed essential tounderstanding; thus, a sound-field robot is used to automat-ically move transducers.
Careful experimental technique isbeing used to understand the properties of such systems, aswell as develop algorithms and systems.Recent AccomplishmentsDuring the last year, the current system has been fiartherupgraded for more flexible conversion of existing, storeddigital data.
The properties of our high-performance outputtransducer have been measured and inverse-filter mechanismsnow are used to acoustically reproduce a speech outputwithout coloration.
Automatic systems have been written toconvert large, stored speech databases to another acousticalsituation.
For example, the array may be used to collectspeech from a target aler and an interfering talker, both withknown locations and output levels.
New results for talkerlocation are about o be published.
The method works about95% of the time the talker is speaking, and incorporates a two-stage search and our Stochastic Region Contraction algorithmfor nonlinear optimization to find the source location in real-time ona typical, fixed-point DSP chip.
Our 128-microphone,all-digital system should be operational before this summer.The architecture is both simple and elegant and there issome interest in it on the part of NUWC for ultrasonic dataacquisition.
This system allows the formation of up to128 total microphones in virtually any spatial arrangement.This array should allow for very flexible experimentationwith spatial filtering of all sorts.
A recent experiment hasset a baseline for the performance of our speech recognizerrelative to its close-talking performance.
A 12% performancedegradation resulted from using a simple beamformer systemwith no noise compensation asinput o the recognizer.
Now,all new algorithms can be quantitatively tested for effect.Plans for the Coming IntervalContinue the modeling of the properties of the room,transducers, and electronics, so that effective "decon-volving" algorithms may be designed.Finish the 128-microphone system and apply it in manyspatial variants to the problem of filtering out reverbera-tions.Continue the development of better algorithms for loca-tion, tracking, beamforming, and talker elimination.Incorporate noise-reduction mechanisms into the currentreal-time array for cleaning the signal for recognition.Compare these results to the current baseline.Continue to use and gain understanding of the SRCnonlinear minimization algorithm.468
