Diderot: T IPSTER Program, Automat ic  Data Extract ionfrom Text Uti l izing Semantic AnalysisY.
Wilks, J. Pustejovsky t, J. CowieComputing Research Laboratory, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM 88003&Computer Science t, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02254PROJECT GOALSThe Computing Research Laboratory at New MexicoState University and the Computer Science Depart-ment at Brandeis University, are developing an originalmethod for the large scale extraction of information fromJapanese and English texts.
This method is general andextendible; its techniques are not explicitly tied to thesetwo particular languages, nor to the finance and electron-ics domains which are the initial targets of the Tipsterproject.We are designing and testing a set of procedures for theautomatic extraction of information from Japanese andEnglish texts, and for placing this information in pre-specified templates.
Our approach is based on "par-tial parsing" to analyze selected text parts, in combi-nation with statistical techniques and the incorporationof large-scale data-bases.Our method makes use of minimalist AI techniquesbased on formal lexical structures that are largely au-tomatically derived and tuned against corpora.
In addi-tion, we are constructing a range of small-scale demonsfor such items as dates, company names and placenames.
Statistical techniques are being used to identifyrelevant vocabulary and to identify significant sectionsof text.
All our proposed techniques have been tested atone of our two research centers; what we are proposingoverall is a state of the art system based on a novel, yettheoretically defensible combination of those techniques.RECENT RESULTSThe project is in its early stages and much preliminaryinvestigative and infrastructure work has been under-taken.
A template filling tool (Hume) was developedat CRL, as much to learn about the structure of thetemplates as to provide a usable environment for hu-man analysts on SUN workstations.
Brandeis under-took the analysis of time as related to the Tipster taskand have produced a set of definitions for the timewords in the Tipster vocabulary.
A survey of the useof metaphor in the texts has been made.
Brandeis areco-ordinating the distribution of a Tipster news letter(tipster@cs.brandeis.edu).
CRL has produced a list ofJapanese resources for the Tipster Japanese groups.An outline design for the system has been produced andwork on the various components was started.
Lexicaldefinitions for the words of a single Tipster text wereautomatically derived from the Longman Dictionary ofContemporary English.
These were used as source ma-terial for defining Generative Lexical Structures for thewords.
The task of manually creating GL~ structuresfor a large number of words has proved to be difficultand we have decided to use a subset of these structureswhich is sufficient for the Tipster task.A statistically based method for detection of texts hasbeen developed which is accurate in distinguishing twotext types (eg Tipster and MUC).
Given an appropriateset of words from each text the exact probability of de-tection can be calculated for text samples of any size.
Weintend to extend this method to the problem of detectingrelevant paragraphs.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAROur intention is to produce a series of systems of increas-ing degrees of sophistication.
These will be tested in theappropriate Tipster and MUC-4 evaluations.
We intendto use several data-intensive pre-processing steps to se-lect relevant paragraphs, using our statistical method,and to mark large lexical units; such as proper names andindustrial products.
Paragraph selection will be basedon data derived from the filled templates.
The lexicalunits will be identified using a variety of U.S. govern-ment data-bases.
The tagged text will serve as input tothe partial parsing stage of the system.
At present weare experimenting with several parsing systems and as-sociated grammars.
An initial trade-off is being made infavor of robustness over depth, but later versions of thesystem will incorporate more accurate syntactic and se-mantic parsing.
Inter-lingual based domain models willbe constructed and used as templates in the derivationof relevant information from the parsed text.
A finalpost-processing stage (Bruce) will incorporate the spe-cific rules related to the individual fields of a template.479
