SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER FROM SLSDavid Talkin, Principal InvestigatorEntropic Research Laboratory600 Pennsylvania Ave.
S.E., Suite 202Washington, D.C. 20003PROJECT GOALSThis summary describes a new project that isscheduled to start in March, 1992.In this project, Entropic will serve as a technologytransfer agent for the Speech and Language Sys-tems (SLS) program.
Our ultimate goal is tomake complete systems developed in the courseof SLS research readily available to interestedparties in government, education, and industry.An intermediate goal is to provide clean, welldocumented implementations of speech recogni-tion systems such as SPHINX or BYBLOS forexperimentation and application outside of theSLS program.The goals of the initial project are to create atechnology transfer mechanism, to test it bymeans of a useful but modest-scale application ofthe mechanism, and to create a plan for the trans-fer of a full-scale speech-recognition system.RECENT RESULTSThe end of the contracting auntlet is in sight.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAROur first goal is to provide a portable implementa-tion of an "acoustic feature" front end.
This pro-gram will accept sampled data in the SPHEREformat developed at NIST, and produce asequence of acoustic feature vectors.
Whilethere will be a wide variety of possible featuresthat can be selected, there will be options toproduce the acoustic feature sets that are used(prior to vector quantization) in the current sys-tems at certain SLS sites.
The tentative list ofsites is: BBN, CMU, MIT-LCS, MIT-LL, and SRI.A second goal is to establish a software repositoryand distribution mechanism for the acoustic fea-ture front end.
This will be accomplished by anelectronic mail server that will distribute informa-tion about the available software, and by ftpaccess for actual software transfer.
For recipientswithout network access, tape distribution will beavailable at a nominal charge.A third goal is to create a plan (with cost and timeestimates) for taking a full speech recognitionsystem from within the SLS community and mak-ing it available to outside parties in a documentedand supported form.To summarize, there will be three products of theinitial effort:?
an acoustic feature front end?
a software repository and distribution mecha-nism;?
a plan for transfer of a complete recognitionsystemThe transfer of a complete system is a possiblefollow-on project.Other possible follow-on projects include thetransfer of additional analysis modules (e.g.,HMM, VQ, etc.).
The target modules would bechosen to be useful in constructing a specificspeech recognizer while at the same time beingtechnically interesting and useful on a stand-alonebasis.473
