Natural Language ResearchPIs: Aravind Joshi, Mitch Marcus, Mark Steedman, and Bonnie WebberDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104emaihjoshi@cis.upenn.eduOBJECTIVEThe main objective is basic research and system devel-opment leading to (1) characterization of informationcarried by (a) syntax, semantics, and discourse struc-ture, (b) their relation to information carried by into-nation, and (c) development of methods for using thisinformation for generation and understanding; (2) devel-opment of architectures for integration of utterance plan-ning with lexical, syntactic and intonational choice; (3)development of incremental strategies for using syntac-tic, semantic, and pragmatic knowledge in understand-ing and generating language.RECENT ACCOMPL ISHMENTS?
An algorithm was designed based on Earley'sparser for estimating the parameters of a stochas-tic context-free grammar.
Contrary to other ap-proaches, this algorithm does not require that thegrammar is in a normal form.?
A new predictive left-to-right parser for TAGwas designed and included in a software package(XTAG).?
An X-based Graphical Interface for Tree-AdjoiningGrammars (XTAG) has been released for distribu-tion.
This software package includes: (1) a graphi-cal editor for trees; (2) a parser for unification-basedtree-adjoining rammars; (3) utilities for defininggrammars and lexicon for tree-adjoining grammars;and (4) a user manual.?
The notion of stochastic tree-adjoining rammarswas defined and an algorithm for estimating from acorpus the probabilities of a stochastic TAG was de-signed.
Lexicalized tree adjoining rammar (LTAG)provides astochastic model that is both hierarchicaland sensitive to lexical information.?
Developed a new notion of derivation for the treeadjoining grammars, which is sensitive to the dis-tinction between modifier and predicational auxil-iary trees.
This distinction is relevant o the designof probabilistic LTAGs.490?
Developed a new formalism, structure unificationgrammar, that allows many of the key insights ofa variety of grammatical formalisms to be broughtto together in one framework, although at a cost ofsome increased computational complexity.?
The Pereira-Pollack approach to incremental inter-pretation was extended to support a discourse-basedalgorithm for resolving verb phrase ellipsis.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Continue work on automatic extraction of linguis-tic structure, extending work on determination ofpart-of-speech tag sets and adding morphophone-mic rules to the morphology algorithm, focusingon automatically discovering high-level grammati-cal structure.?
Extend the techniques used for the design of poly-nomial time and space shift-reduce parsers for arbi-trary context-free grammars to tree adjoining gram-mars.?
Complete the work on stochastic tree-adjoininggrammars, implement an algorithm for estimatingfrom a corpus the probabilities of a stochastic TAG,and investigate the design of algorithms for usingparsed corpora such as the Penn Treebank as thebasis for the estimation of stochastic tree-adjoininggrammars.?
Complete the work on the new derivation forLTAGs based on the distinction between modifierand predicational auxiliary trees and integrate thisformulation in the framework of stochastic TAGs.?
Complete the integration of coordination in the treeadjoining grammar framework.?
Begin work on the problem of word-order variation,which is more common in languages such as Ger-man, Korean, Japanese, among others.
