INFERENCING IN INFORMATION RETRIEVALAlexa T. McCrayNat iona l  L ib rary  o f  Med ic ineBethesda,  Mary land  20894ABSTRACTWe have been addressing the problem of providing access to thefree text in biomedical databases.
The focus of our work is thedevelopment of SPECIALIST, an experimental NLP system for thebiomedical domain.
The system includes a broad coverage parsersupported by a large lexicon, a module that provides access toextensive biomedical knowledge sources, and a retrieval modulethat allows us to carry out experiments in information retrieval.We have recently conducted experiments with a test collection ofqueries and documents retrieved for those queries.
The purpose ofthe investigation has been to determine the type of information thatis required in order to effect a map between the language of queriesand the language of relevant documents.1, INTRODUCTIONRetrieval of information from computerized atabases isa complex process whose success depends heavily on theuser's knowledge of the structure and logic of the particulardatabase being searched.
Many databases have associatedwith them a controlled indexing vocabulary, or thesaurus,which is the primary access point to the material at searchtime.
For example, the National of Library of Medicine'sMESH?
thesaurus includes some 16,000 headings that areavailable for indexing and searching the biomedical literaturestored in MEDLINE?, NLM's bibliographic database.
Themajor retrieval strategy is to coordinate MeSH terms withboolean operators, although limited text word searching oftitles and abstracts i also possible.Several years ago NLM launched its Unified Medical Lan-guage System TM (UMLS TM) project.
This is a major esearchinitiative whose goal it is to facilitate retrieval and integrationof information from multiple disparate biomedical databases.NLM itself has developed and maintains over 40 databases,and there are many other sources of computerized informationin the biomedical sciences.
These include factual databasesof various kinds, diagnostic expert systems, clinical informa-tion systems, as well as bibliographic databases.
The UMLSproject is attempting to develop methods whereby access isprovided to these different systems with their different vo-cabularies in a way which allows the user to navigate amongthem with relative ease.
Recent results of the project havebeen the development of an Information Sources Map ofbiomedical databases, a Metathesaurus TM of biomedical vo-cabularies and a Semantic Network of high-level biomedicalconcepts\[I,2\].
The first release of the Information SourcesMap contains a description of the scope, content, and ac-cess conditions for approximately fifty biomedical databases.The Metathesaurus includes over 67,000 biomedical conceptsfrom a variety of controlled vocabularies.
Definitions, lexicalcategory information, hierarchical contexts, and interrela-tionships among many of the terms found in its constituentvocabularies are provided.
Each concept in the Metathesaurushas been assigned to at least one of the 131 semantic typesin the Semantic Network.
The Network has top level nodesfor organisms, anatomical structures, biologic function anddysfunction, chemicals, events, and concepts.
The Networkdefines these types and establishes a set of 35 potential rela-tionships between them.
These include physical, temporal,functional, and conceptual links, e.g., part of, co-occurs with,causes, measures.
The Network and the Metathesaurus to-gether form a rich knowledge source of biomedical concepts.The knowledge sources will continue to be augmented andrefined based on experimentation in a variety of applications,including our own.Our work is motivated by an interest in the developmentand testing of natural language processing techniques for im-proved methods of information retrieval.
Document retrievalsystems, in particular, are "language-rich" and afford theopportunity to conduct basic research in processing complexnatural anguage text.
The focus of our work is the devel-opment of SPECIALIST, an experimental NLP system forthe biomedical domain\[3,4,5\].
The system includes a broadcoverage parser 1 supported by a large lexicon, a modulethat accesses the UMLS knowledge sources, and a retrievalmodule.
SPECIALIST runs on Sun workstations and is im-plemented in Quintus Prolog, with some support moduleswritten in C.We have recently conducted experiments using a test collec-tion of user queries and MEDLINE citation records retrievedfor those queries.
The data for the test collection were se-1During the academic year 1988-1989 we awarded a research contractto the Paoli Research Center of the Unisys Corporation.
As a result ofthis successful collaboration between our two research groups, the syntacticcomponent of the system is extremely robusL See\[6,7\] for a description ofthe Paoli system.218lected from 2,000 search request forms submitted by healthprofessionals to the NIH and NLM libraries.
155 querieswere chosen, approximately 50 each in the three major areascovered by MEDLINE - clinical medicine research, basicscience research, and health services research.
Searches wereconducted by an expert NLM searcher, and the approximately3,000 citations retrieved were evaluated for relevancy by asubject matter expert\[8\].
Each citation record in the collectionincludes a title and an author-prepared abstract.We parsed the queries, titles and selected portions of abstractsin the test collection.
For all successful parses, noun phraseswere extracted and whatever synonyms could be found inthe Metathesaurus and in our online version of the Dorland'sIllustrated Medical Dictionary\[5\] were added to the nounphrases to form a concept group.
We then attempted toeffecta match between the concepts in the queries and the conceptsin relevant citations.
We found that the mapping involves awide range of inferences.
It is only in rare cases that conceptsmap directly from queries to documents.
More commonly,several inferences are necessary in order to determine that acitation is in fact relevant to a request.The remainder of this paper begins with a discussion ofsome of the salient issues in information retrieval.
This isfollowed by a brief description of the major components ofthe SPECIALIST system, and the paper ends with an accountof our recent investigations in mapping queries to relevantdocuments.2.
THE INFORMATION RETRIEVALPROBLEMOne of the essential characteristics of document storageand retrieval is the parallelism between the indexing andsearching processes.
Text is subjected to either manual orautomatic indexing.
If it is manual, there will generally beindexing rules.
For example, in the case of NLM's MEDLINEdatabase, one rule says that articles hould be indexed with themost specific terms available in NLM's MeSH vocabulary\[9\].Thus, if an article is about aplastic anemia it should be indexedunder that term (which is a bona fide MeSH term) and notunder either the more general term "anemia" or the even moregeneral term "hematologic diseases".
At search time, the user(or program acting on the user's behalf) needs to take this intoaccount when formulating a search strategy and statement.Even if the indexing is automatic, and it may be as simple ascreating an inverted index for all the words in the document,the user (or program) needs to be aware of the conventionsfor creating that index.
This includes recognition of the factthat text words are generally run against a stopword list offunction words and other highly frequent words before theyare entered in the database.
For example, if the user wantsto query the MEDLINE database on "the effects of acidosison ATP" and uses text words only, the two words "acidosis"and "ATP" will individually ield many postings and theircoordination will yield another, smaller, set.
However, addingin the word "effects" will not make the search results anymore precise, since, as a highly frequent word in biomedicaldocuments, this word has been placed on the stopword list.Without some knowledge of these conventions, the resultscan be confusing to end users.Feedback of various kinds allows the user to negotiate withthe retrieval system.
This may involve refining a searchstatement based on viewing the set of rifles or documentsinitially retrieved, or finding that because the number ofpostings for a search statement is unacceptably large orsmall that the search strategy has been too broad, or toonarrow, or misformulated in some other way.
It may alsoinvolve accessing information about the indexing rules orcontrolled vocabulary used in the system.
The effect of thisfeedback is that it makes the user more aware of both thepotential of the retrieval system as well as its limitations.Most researchers in intelligent interface design assume toone degree or another that the user will be "left in the loop"to negotiate with the system, resolving ambiguities, makingrelevancy judgements, and revising searches based on (user-independen0 information supplied by the system.
(See\[10\]for a strong statement about he desirabilty of giving the usermaximum control over the entire search interaction.
)Many of the attempts that have been made to apply NLPto information retrieval have involved the search interface;others have involved the indexing process.
See\[11\] for areview of some of the more recent research efforts.
The resultsof applying NLP to the information retrieval problem havenot always been encouraging\[12\].
It is important to recognizewhy this might be so.
First, retrieval experiments have beencarried out that use partially developed parsing systems andthen compare these results with other non-NLP methods.
Theresults of these comparisons hould, therefore, be viewedwith caution.
In some cases, so-called stemming procedureshave been used which embody some linguistic sophistication,but, again, are not fully motivated or developed.
The resultsof these experiments again underscore the limitations of theincomplete methods used.
Second, given that the indexingand retrieval processes are so closely related, a successfulapplication of NLP will need to be fully integrated withboth processes.
Some of the inconclusive results in\[13\], forexample, may derive from a decision to ignore this point.3.
THE SPECIALIST SYSTEM3.1 Lexicon and ParserLexical information is central to our parsing system.
Thelexicon currently contains some 51,000 lexical items, withover 88,000 lexical forms.
It includes both general Englishlexical items as well as items specific to the domain of219biomedicine.
Lexical entries are created using our lexiconbuilding tool called Lextool.
Lextool is a menu-based systemwhich accepts as input either a file of lexical items or lexicalitems typed in from the keyboard.
With the interactive aid ofthe user, it generates fully specified lexical frames.
Lextoolincorporates rules that dictate which slots are permissiblefor the syntactic ategory in question.
The coding systemis closely tied to the codes given in the first edition of theLongman Dictionary of Contemporary English\[14\], althoughwe have modified this scheme somewhat, and we have addedadditional codes, for example, those for logical interpretation,such as subject control, object raising, etc.
We do not havethe Longman dictionary in machine readable form, but otheronline information sources are available to lexical codersin the Lextool environment.
These include the Dorland'sIllustrated Medical Dictionary\[5\]; Meshtool, our MeSH vo-cabulary browser; Meta, the Metathesaurus retrieval system;and access to sample sentences from MEDLINE citationswhich contain the lexical items in question.
The two samplerecords hown below illustrate the type of information that isencoded for lexical items 2.base--sadentry=lcat=adjvariants=regdposition=attrib(1)position=predcompl=fincomp(t):subjcompl=fincomp(t)nominaiization=sadnessbase=aimentry=lcat=nounvariants=uncountvariants=regentry=2cat=verbvariants=regintrantran=infcomp:subjctran=nptran=pphr(at,np)tran=pphr(at,ingcomp:subjc)tran=pphr(for, np)tran=pphr(for,ingcomp:subjc)ditran=np,pphr(at,np)2Semantic and pragmatic information is not stored irectly with lexicalentries.
We are, however, currently considering a variety of approaches tosemantics and our future work in this area may wen have an impact on thestructure ofthe lexical entries.The record for "sad" illustrates the sort of information weencode for adjectives.
Included is variant information (i.e.,whether the adjective forms regular comparative and superla-fives); positional information, e.g., whether the adjective ispredicative, attributive, or both; adjective type (e.g., the "1"in "attrib(1)" indicates that this is an adjective of quality); in-formation about possible complements (e.g, finite, infinitivalcomplements); and information about any nominalizations.The record for "aim" illustrates ome of the information weencode for nouns and verbs.
Noun frames include variantinformation and information about possible complements andnominalizations, if relevant.
Verbs are most extensivelycoded.
While any particular complement slot of a verb isoptional, at least one from the set "intran, "man", "ditran", or"cplxtran", must be chosen.
In addition, the particular typeof object is encoded.
For example, aim as a verb may betransitive, and if so, it can take a single np as an object or oneof a variety of prepositional phrase complements (e.g., "aimat the target", "aim at winning", "aim for the best", etc.
).The grammar includes context-free BNF rules together withcontext-sensitive restrictions.
It is based heavily on the Punditgrammar, but we continue to refine and modify it so that it canhandle new constructions and additional lexical attributes.
Aslightly simplified sample parse is shown below.S = Rifampin is administered in the treatment of tuberculosis.OPS: present, passiveVERB: administerSUB J: nullOBJ: rifampin (sing,(Pharmacologic Substance))PP: intreatment (sing,(Therapeutic Procedure))RMOD: oftuberculosis ( ing,(Disease or Syndrome))We have investigated the possiblity of using the UMLSsemantic types for expressing selectional restrictions.
Ourinitial assessment is that hey may be profitably used, but sincewe are currently developing a general approach to semantics,we have not yet implemented any restrictions of this sort.
Inthe meantime, we report semantic types in the output parse.The semantic types are not directly encoded in lexical entries,but are looked up at parse time in our Metathesaurus retrievalapplication.3.2  Access  to  Knowledge SourcesThe Metathesaurus application allows users (or programs)to search for Metathesaurus terminology, reporting the termand its source vocabulary; its definition, synonyms, relatedor associated terms; its semantic types; its lexical tags andvariants; or its contexts, e.g., its ancestors or descendants.220Simplified sample output for some queries for "Gierke'sdisease" are shown below.
Note that "Gierke's disease" isa synonym of "Glycogen Storage Disease Type r',  and is,therefore, mapped to this term throughout.\[CN = concept name, DEF = definition, VOC = source vo-cabulary (MSH = MeSH, SNOMED = Systematized Nomen-clature of Medicine), STY = semantic type, SY = synonym\].Concept Definition \[return to quit\]: Gierke's diseaseCN: Glycogen Storage Disease Type IDEF: An autosomal recessive disease in which geneexpression of glucose-6-phosphatase is absent,resulting in hypoglycemia due to lack of glucoseproduction.
Accumulation of glycogen in liver andkidney leads to organomegaly, particularly massivehepatomegaly.
Increased concentrations of lactic acidand hyperlipidemia appear in the plasma.
Clinical goutoften appears in early childhood.VOC: MSHSemantic Type: \[return to quit\]: Gierke's diseaseCN: Glycogen Storage Disease Type ISTY: Disease or SyndromeSynonyms \[return to quit\]: Gierke's diseaseCN: Glycogen Storage Disease Type ISY: Gierke's DiseaseSY: Glucose-6-Phosphatase DeficiencySY: Glucosephosphatase DeficiencySY: Glycogenosis 1SY: Hepatorenal Glycogen Storage DiseaseSY: Hepatorenal g ycogenosisSY: Von Gierke DiseaseAncestors \[return to quit\]: Gierke's diseaseCN: Glycogen Storage Disease Type IVOC: MeSHDiseasesNutritional and Metabolic DiseasesMetabolic DiseasesMetabolism, Inborn ErrorsCarbohydrate Metabolism, Inborn ErrorsGlycogen Storage DiseaseGlycogen Storage Disease Type ICN: Glycogen Storage Disease Type IVOC: SNOMEDDisease AxisMetabolic and Nutritional Diseases and SyndromesDiseases of Carbohydrate MetabolismGlycogen storage disease, type I3.3  Ret r ieva l  Modu leAs noted above, we have developed a retrieval module inorder to test he extent to which NLP techniques may improveinformation retrieval.
The current implementation f themodule processes files such as MEDLINE citation records,creates an index for the items in all relevant fields, includingMeSH terminology and text words, and provides for booleanretrieval of these items.
In addition to retrieval based on theMeSH vocabulary and text words, the retrieval module alsoprovides for noun phrase xtraction, indexing, and retrieval.A noun phrase index is created by parsing the textual fields ofinput records, generating several variants of each noun phraseand computing synonyms of each variant.
During retrieval,noun phrases are similarly extracted from a parse of the user'squery and processed against he noun phrase index.The retrieval module gives us direct access to the test collec-tion of queries and citation records and was heavily used inthe experiment reported below.4.
MAPP ING QUERIES  TO DOCUMENTSLocating relevant documents in a bibliographic database is acomplex process that involves users - their knowledge of thesubject matter, their understanding of the conventions of thedatabase, their familiarity with the interface to that database- and it involves the relationship between the meaning of aquery and the meaning of a relevant document.A query generally is directed to just one, or perhaps a fewaspects, of a full document.
The relationship between thequery and document may be direct, or it may be quite indirect.The following examples from the test collection illustrate 3.A query in the clinical medicine research portion of thecollection is, "Causes, treatment, signs and symptoms ofdepression specifically in the post partum period (i.e., firstyear after childbirth or traceable to the event of childbirth).To include mild depression (also known as 'baby blues') topost partum psychosis."
The title of a relevant citation is,"A prospective study of postpartum psychoses in a high-riskgroup.
Clinical characteristics of the current postpartumepisodes."
Here the title clearly answers at least part of the3As noted above, the queries were collected from two medical fibraries.They consist primarily of search request forms filled in by users of thesefibraries.
The language is, therefore, the natural language ofthe user, and itis directed to a human search specialist rather than to a computer interface.221query directly and is, thus, deemed relevant.A somewhat less direct correspondence between the query anddocument is shown by an example from the health servicesresearch portion of the collection.
The query is, "Attitudesof health personnel as it relates to neoplasms, AIDS, andALS."
The title of one of the documents retrieved for thisquery is, "The impact of a program to enhance the compe-tencies of primary care physicians in caring for patients withAIDS."
The abstract, while not directly discussing attitudesof physicians treating AIDS patients does indicate that of 635physicians interviewed, only 30 percent "demonstrated a e-quate knowledge of practices necessary to deal with patients'AIDS-related symptoms and concerns.
"Our recent investigations have looked at the degree of sim-ilarity between the language of a query and the language ofa relevant document.
Our experiments involved parsing thequery and document texts, extracting the constituent nounphrases, augmenting these with synonyms and other variants,and then attempting to map queries to relevant documents.We found that the mappings are almost never straightforwardand almost always involve multiple inferences.Our current parsing system was able to handle about 45percent of the 155 queries and about 55 percent of the 3,078titles in the collection.
As we analyzed particular phenomena,we parsed selected portions of some of the abstracts.
Boththe queries and the titles are generally complex noun phrases,but queries tend to be more elliptical and much less well-formed than titles.
Abstracts consist of well-formed Englishsentences, but some of the structures found there are highlyspecialized.
The following sentence from one of the abstractsillustrates: "At 55-57 days of age, the animals were dividedinto the following dietary treatment groups: A) 4.5 96 fat\[control fat (CF)\]; B) CF + 1.0 MMOL ROA/kg diet (CF +ROA); C) 20.0 ~ fat \[high fat (HF)\]; D) I-IF + ROA.
"Our investigations have indicated that the mapping betweenqueries and documents involves arange of phenomena.
Whenconcepts do not map directly to each other, it is often the casethat various types of relations between them are the key to asuccessful mapping.
The synonymy relation is clearly of greatimportance to robust retrieval systems.
The more synonymsor closely related terms there are available at search time, themore likely it is that a user will find the desired ocuments.
(For example, see\[15\] for the view that traditional retrievalsystems would be greatly improved by the addition of hugenumbers of synonyms, or "aliases").
The synonymy must,however, go beyond the word-level to the phrase-level.
Anexample from our experiment illustrates.
The fairly simplequery is, "Vitamin C and immunity".
The title of a relevantcitation is "Effect of ascorbic acid on humoral and otherfactors of immunity in coal-tar exposed workers."
Both the4For our purposes a document  consists of  a title and an abstract.Metatbesaurus and the Dorland dictionary list "vitamin C"and "ascorbic acid" as synonyms, o, in this case, parsing thequery and title, together with a look-up in our online resourceshas the desired effect.Another example illustrates ome of the more complex rela-tions that may exist between concepts in queries and docu-ments.
The query is, "Hematoporphyrin derivative treatmentof tumors using a laser."
The first sentence of a relevantcitation is, "Photoradiation with photosensitizing porphyrinsoffers a potentially useful approach to the diagnosis and treat-ment of certain human cancers."
The system must recognizethat hematoporphyrin is a kind of porphyrin, that tumorsare related to cancer, and that the use of a laser is impliedby photoradiation.
Access to the knowledge contained inthe Metathesaurus does, in fact, allow these inferences tobe made.
A sub-tree in the MeSH hierarchy, one of theconstituent vocabularies in the Metathesaurus, i  shown be-low.
Hematoporphyrin is shown to be a narrower term thanporphyrin and the isa link is implied:Chemicals and DrugsGrowth Substances, Pigments, VitaminsPigmentsPorphyrinsHematoporphyrinsTumor is listed as a synonym of neoplasm which is itself abroader term than cancer in the Metathesaurus, and photora-diation is listed as a synonym of light which is broader thanlasers:Physical SciencesPhysicsOpticsLightLasersBy navigating through the interrelationships expressed inthe Metathesaurus structure, the system is able to draw theappropriate inferences.Another example illustrates a somewhat more complex case.The query is, "Ocular complications of Myasthenia Gravis".A relevant title is, "Myasthenia gravis and recurrent retrob-ulbar optic neuritis: an unusual combination of diseases".Myasthenia gravis is a neuromuscular disorder and is gen-erally associated with ocular complications of a muscularnature, such as ptosis, diplopia, and ophthalmoplegia.
Theoptic neuritis mentioned in the title is, however, an inflamma-tory disorder.
The correct inference can be made by referringto the Semantic Network which has established the poten-tial relation "complicates" between any two co-occurringdiseases.
In this case, then, the literature has actually instanti-222ated the "complicates" relationship between the two normallyunrelated isorders mentioned in the rifle.It is clear that while identifying noun phrases in queriesand documents will improve the mapping capabilities of aretrieval system, it will not be capable of drawing manyof the deeper inferences that are required.
A fairly simpleexample makes the point.
The query is, "Thermographyfor indications other than breast."
An obviously relevant titleis, "Use of thermogram in detection of meningitis."
Here asystem needs to know that "breast" actually refers to "breastdisorders" and that "other than" is a negative operator.
Aswe incorporate more semantics into our parser, some of theseinferences should fall out.Most often the process of locating a relevant document in-volves mapping sets of concepts and their interrelationships nqueries onto similar sets of concepts and interrelationships ndocuments.
These interrelationships between major conceptsmay be explicit or they may be implicit.
An example of anexplicit relation is shown in the following query, "Transillu-mination light scanning for use in the detection of diseasesof the breast.".
A relevant title for this query is "The value ofdlaphanograpy asan adjunct o mammography in breast di-agnostics."
Here the notion of using a particular technique todetect, or diagnose, the disorder is of paramount importance.An example of an implicit relationship is shown in the query,"Neoplasia in kidney, heart, and liver transplant recipients.
"The user is probably interested inarticles that discuss neopla-sia arising as a result of of the transplant (or more likely theimmunosuppressive th rapy associated with the transplant),but this is not directly stated.
A relevant title for this queryis, in fact, "Development of incidence of cancer followingcyclosporine therapy.
"In many cases, it will not be possible for a system to drawthe appropriate inferences without the interactive aid of theuser.
This is most likely if only noun phrases are presented asa search statement.
For example, if a query consists implyof the two terms "rifampin" and "tuberculosis", multipleinterpretations of the relationship between these terms arepossible.
The Semantic Network, for example, provides thefollowing potential relationships between drugs and diseases:affects, prevents, complicates, treats, diagnoses, and causes.If the user is presented with the set of possible relationsbetween drugs and diseases, a choice can be made and thequery can be further efined.Our work to date has revealed a variety of inferences that mustbe made if the attempt to map a query to a relevant documentis to be successful.
We intend to continue our explorations ofthese phenomena, nd we have begun to develop an approachto handling some of them.
Our online sources of biomedicalinformation have already proven to be of direct use in makingsome of the appropriate inferences.REFERENCES1.
Lindberg, D.A.B.
and Humphreys, B.L.
"The UMLS Knowl-edge Sources: Tools for Building Better User Interfaces,"Proceedings of the Fourteenth Annual Symposium on Com-puter Applications in Medical Care, R.A. Miller (ed.
), IEEEComputer Society Press, 1990, pp.
121-125.2.
McCray, A.T. and Hole, W.T.
''The Scope and Structure of theFirst Version of the UMLS Semantic Network," Proceedings ofthe Fourteenth Annual Symposium on Computer Applicationsin Medical Care, R.A. Miller (ed.
), IEEE Computer SocietyPress, 1990, pp.
126-130.3.
McCray, A.T. "Natural Language Processing for IntelligentInformation Retrieval," Proceedings ofthe Annual Conferenceof the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society,Volume 13, 1991, pp.
1160-1161.4.
McCray, A.T. "Extending a Natural Language Parser withUMLS Knowledge," Proceedings of the Fifteenth AnnualSymposium on Computer Applications in Medical Care, P.D.Clayton (ed.
), McGraw-Hill, Inc. 1991, pp.
194-198.5.
McCray, A.T. and Srinivasan, S. "Automated Access to aLarge Medical Dictionary: Online Assistance for Researchand Application in Natural Language Processing", Computersand Biomedical Research, Vol.
23, 1990, pp.
179-198.6.
Hirschman, L., Palmer, M. Dowding, J., Dahl, D. Linebarger,M.
Passonneau, R., Lang, E-M., Ball, C. and Weir, C., ''ThePUNDIT Natural-Language Processing System", A/Systemsin Government Conference, Computer Society of the IEEE,March 1989.7.
Hirschman, L. and Dowding, J., "Restriction Grammar: ALogic Grammar", Logic and Logic Grammars for LanguageProcessing, Salnt-Dizier, P., and S. Szpakowicz (eds.
), EllisHorwood, 1990, 141-167.8.
Schuyler, P.L., McCray, A.T., and Schoolman, H.M., "A TestCollection for Experimentation i Bibliographic Retrieval,MEDINF089 North-Holland, 1989, pp.
910-912.9.
Charen, T. , "Medlars Indexing Manual", Technical ReportNLM-MED-83-06, National Technical Information Service,1983.10.
Bates, MJ., "Where should the person stop and the informationinterface start7", Information Processing &Management, Vol.26, No.
5, 1990, pp.
575-591.11.
Smeaton, A.E, "Information Relzieval and Natural LanguageProcessing", Prospects for Intelligent Retrieval, Informatics10, Jones, K.
(ed.
), 1990, pp.
1-14.
1990, pp.
575-591.12.
Salton, G., Bucldey, C., and Smith, M., "On the Applicationof Syntactic Methodologies in Automatic Text Analysis.
",Information Processing &Management, Vol.
26, No.
1, 1990,pp.
73-92.13.
Sparck Jones, K. andTalt, J.I., "Automatic SearchTerm VariantGeneration", Journal ofDocwnentation, Vol.
40, No.
1, March1984, pp.
50-66.14.
Procter, E (ed) Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English.Longman Group Limited 1978.15.
Furnas, G.W., Landauer, T.K., Gomez, L.M., and Dumais,S.T., 'Whe Vocabulary Problem in Human-System Communi-cation"., Communications of the ACM, vol.
30, No.
11, 1987,pp.
964-971.223
