AUGMENTING WITH SLOT FILLER RELEVANCY SIGNATURESDATAEllen Riloff and Wendy LehnertDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of MassachusettsAmherst, MA 01003INTRODUCTIONHuman readers can reliably identify many relevant extsmerely by skimming the texts for domain-specific cues.These quick relevancy judgements require two steps: (1)recognizing an expression that is highly relevant o thegiven domain, e.g.
"were killed" in the domain ofterrorism, and (2) verifying that he context surrounding theexpression is consistent with the relevancy guidelines forthe domain, e.g.
"5 soldiers were killed by guerrillas" isnot consistent with the terrorism domain since victims ofterrorist acts must be civilians 1.
The Relevancy SignaturesAlgorithm attempts to simulate the first step in thisprocess by deriving reliable relevancy cues from a corpus oftraining texts and using these cues to quickly identify newtexts that are highly likely to be relevant.
But since thisalgorithm makes no attempt to look beyond the relevancycues, it will occasionally misclassify texts when thesurrounding context contains additional information thatmakes the text irrelevant.As a first attempt to address this problem, we developed avariation of the Relevancy Signatures Algorithm thataugments the relevancy signatures with slot fillerinformation.
While relevancy signatures classify textsbased upon the presence of case frames, augmentedrelevancy signatures classify texts on the basis of caseframe instantiations, Experimental results show that theaugmented relevancy signatures can achieve higherprecision than relevancy signatures alone while stillmaintaining significant levels of recall.AUGMENTED RELEVANCYS IGNATURESOne shortcoming of relevancy signatures i that they donot take advantage of the slot fillers in the concept nodes.For example, consider two similar sentences: (a) "a civilianwas killed by guerrillas" and (b) "a soldier was killed byguerrillas".
Both sentences are represented by the samerelevancy signature: (killed, $murder-pass-1) even thoughsentence (a) describes a terrorist event and sentence (b) does1 According to the MUC-3 domain guidelines, events thattargetted military personnel or installations were notconsidered to be terrorist in nature.not.
To address this problem, we experimented withaugmented relevancy signatures that combine the originalrelevancy signatures with slot filler information.Given a set of training texts, we parse each text and savethe concept nodes that are generated.
For each slot in eachconcept node 2, we collect reliability statistics for triplesconsisting of the concept node type, the slot name, and thesemantic feature of the filler.
3 For example, consider thesentence: "The mayor was murdered."
The word "murdered"triggers a murder concept node that contains "the mayor" inits victim slot.
This concept node instantiation yields theslot triple: (murder, victim, ws-govemment-official).
Foreach slot triple, we then update two statistics: \[1\] thenumber of times that it occurred in the training set (N), and\[2\] the number of times that it occurred in a relevant text(NR).
The ratio of NR over N gives us a "reliability"measure.
For example, .75 means that 75% of theinstances of the triple appeared in relevant texts.Using these statistics, we then extract a set of "reliable"slot triples by choosing two values: a reliability thresholdRslot and a minimum number of occurrences thresholdMslot.
These parameters are analogous to the relevancysignature thresholds.
The triples that satisfy the reliabilitycriteria become our set of "reliable" slot filler triples.The algorithm for classifying texts is fairly simple.
Givena new text, we parse the text and save the concept nodesthat are produced uring the parse, along with the wordsthat triggered them.
For each concept node, we generate a(triggering word, concept node) pair and a set of slottriples.
If the (triggering word, concept node) pair is in ourlist of relevancy signatures, and the concept node containsa reliable slot triple then we classify the text as relevant.
Ifnot, then the text is deemed irrelevant.
Intuitively, a text isclassified as relevant only if it contains a strong relevancycue and the concept node enabled by this cue contains at2We only collect statistics for top-down slots, i.e.
slotsthat were predicted by the concept node.3Since slot fillers can have multiple semantic features, wecreate one triple for each feature.
For example, if a murderconcept node contains avictim with semantic features ws-human & ws-military then we create two triples: (murder,victim, ws-human) and (murder, victim, ws-military).4578C70 .
\[60 -!!
5C,o \[3O20'?i 0.~ .... .0 10I" i- I .
.
- .
.
.=  I" ; l ' : !
.-'I20 3O 40 ,5O 60 7O 60 9O 100RecaX\[~ OEV4ObSOO(86reO ,, OEVSOl-SOO(39reO \]Figure 1: Relevancy Discriminations on Two SeparateTest Sets Using Relevancy Signaturesleast one slot filler that is also highly correlated withrelevance.COMPARATIVE  EXPERIMENTSWe compared the performance of the augmented relevancysignatures with the original Relevancy SignaturesAlgorithm in order to measure the impact of the slot fillerdata.
We tested the augmented relevancy signatures on thesame two test sets that we had isolated for our originalexperiments, after training on the remaining 1300 texts.Figure 1 shows the original results produced by theRelevancy Signatures Algorithm and Figure 2 shows theresults produced by the augmented relevancy signatures.Each data point represents a different combination ofparamemr values.These graphs clearly show that the augmented relevancysignatures perform at least as well as the original relevancysignatures on these two test sets.
The.
most strikingdifference is the improved precision obtained for DEV 801-900.
There are two important hings to notice aboutFigure 2.
First, we are able to obtain extremely highprecision at low recall values, e.g., 8% recall with 100%precision and 23% recall with 90% precision.
Relevancysignatures alone do not achieve precision greater than 67%for this test set at any recall level.
Second, although thereis a very scauered istribution of data points at the lowerrecall end, we see consistently better precision coupled withthe higher recall values.
This trend suggests that theaugmented relevancy signatures perform at least as well asthe original relevancy signatures when they are workingwith statistically significant numbers of texts._ / I=  I = , 1=.
I I I.1 .'1".
"; -':-.J7Cr ":!,: i '!
f ' l  "'f" lI I. I I Lo J !
I !0 10 20 30 ego 5,0 60 70 80 90 1 O0Re,(~liI ,k OEV~.O1-SOO(66reO - OEVSO1-900(39rel) IFigure 2: Relevancy Discriminations on Two SeparateTest Sets Using Augmented Relevancy SignaturesFurthermore, the Relevancy Signatures Algorithmdemonstrated xtremely strong performance on DEV ~01-500 and it is reassuring to see that the augmented relevancysignatures achieve similar results, perhaps even showing aslight improvement a the higher ecall values.
The highestrecall level obtained with extremely high precision by theoriginal relevancy signatures was 67% with 98% precision.The augmented relevancy signatures achieved significantl.vhigher recall with nearly the same precision, 77% recallwith 96% precision.CONCLUSIONSWe have demonstrated that augmented relevancy signaturescan achieve higher levels of precision than relevencysignatures alone while maintaining significant levels ofmal l .
Augmenting relevancy signatures with slot fillerinformation allows us to make more fine-grained omainrelevancy classifications.
Furthermore, the additional s!otfiller data can be acquired automatically from a trainingcorpus using the same selective concept extractiontechniques needed to collect the relevancy signatures.Combining slot filler information with relevancysignatures i a promising approach for improving precisionwithout sacrificing significant recall in text classificationtasks.458
