Gisting Continuous SpeechJ.
R. Rohlicek, Principal InvestigatorBBN Systems and Technologies70 Fawcett St.Cambridge, MA 02138PROJECT GOALSThe objective of this work is automatic, real-time "gisting"of voice: traffic for updating of information in databases,for producing timely reports, and for prompt notification ofevents of interest.
Specifically, the goal is to build a proto-type, real-time system capable of processing radio commu-nication between air traffic controllers and pilots; identifyingdialogs and extracting their "gist" (e.g., identifying flights,determining whether they are landing or taking off), andproducing acontinuous output stream with that information.The approach is intended to be general and applicable toother domains.The system is built upon state-of-the-art techniques inspeechrecognition, speaker identification, natural anguage anal-ysis, and topic statistical classification.
These techniqueshave been extended where necessary to address pecific as-pects of the gisting problem.
Because various sources ofinformation must be combined, the system design features aitigh degree of interaction between the natural language anddomain-knowledge components and the speech processingcomponents.RECENT RESULTSWe have made additions and modifications to our prototypesystem \[1\].
The primary goal of the effort was to achievereal-time performance.
This involved both system architec-tural and algorithmic modifications described fully in \[2\].A prototype system has been evaluated using approximately14 hours of data recorded at Logan airport.
Performancewas measured on appro~nately four hours of data held outfor final evaluation.
On that data, the system achieved ap-proximately 88% recall and 82% precision for detection ofcontroller-pilot dialogs.
Also, of the flights correctly de-tected, the fight identification was correctly extracted 59%of the time.A real-time prototype system has been constructed.
Thesystem builds on a flexible software system developed aspart of this effort.
The system allows multiple processes tobe coordinated across multiple hosts and provides facilitiesfor efficient stream connections between modules as well asflexible message-based communication between modules.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARThe remainder of the effort will focus on completion ofthe prototype system and on system testing.
System testingincludes investigation of the sensitivity of overall systemperformance tothe performance of various component.REFERENCES\[1\] J. R. Rohlicek, et al "Gisling conversational speech,"Proceedings of the International Conference on Acoustics,Speech and Signal Processing, Mar 1992, pp.
II-113.\[2\] L. Denenberg, et.
al., "Gisting conversational speech inreal time," to appear in Proceedings of the International Con-ference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, April1993.384
