SESS ION 11: PROSODYM.
OstendorfElectrical, Computer and Systems EngineeringBoston University, Boston, MA 02215ABSTRACTThis paper provides a brief introduction to prosody researchin the context of human-computer communication a d anoverview of the contributions of the papers in the session.1.
WHAT IS PROSODY?In large part, prosody is "the relative temporal groupingsof words and the relative prominence ofcertain syllableswithin these groupings" (Price and Hirsehherg \[1\]).
Thisorganization of the words, as Silverman points out \[2\],"annotates the information structure and discourse roleof the text, and indicates to the listener how the speakerbelieves the content relates to the ...prior knowledgewithin the discourse context."
For example, the relativegroupings of words can provide cues to syntactic struc-ture as well as discourse segmentation, and the relativeprominence of words can provide cues to semanticallyimportant or focused items.
Segmentation and focusrepresent two of the major uses of prosody, but other in-formation may also be cued by intonation patterns, e.g.indication of continuation, finality or a yes-no questionwith phrase final "boundary tones".Prosody is typically also defined with a reference toits suprasegmental n ture: "Prosody comprises all thesound attributes of a spoken utterance that are nota property of the individual phones" (Collier) \[2\].
Inaddition, prosody can operate at multiple levels (e.g.,word, phrase, sentence, paragraph), making computa-tional modeling of prosody particularly challenging.
Theacoustic orrelates of prosody, which include duration ofsegments and pauses, fundamental frequency (F0), am-plitude and vowel quality, may be influenced by prosodicpatterns at more than one level, as well as inherent seg-mental properties.
Modeling the interactions among thedifferent factors is an important and difficult problem.Most current linguistic theories of prosody include an ab-stract or phonological representation f prosody to char-acterize aspects of phrasing, prominence, and intonationor melody.
However, here we also see that abstract rep-resentations are of interest for computational modeling.Since it is generally agreed that prosody is not directlyrelated to standard representations of syntactic struc-ture, it is useful to have an intermediate r presentationto facilitate automatic learning and to simplify modelstructure.
Thus, the form of an abstract representationis an important issue.
Ideally, it should include all threemain aspects of prosody, and address the needs of theoryand computational models.
Many different schemes havebeen proposed, and variations of two different prosodictranscription systems are used in the papers presented inthis session.
The TOBI (Tones and Break Indices) sys-tem for American English \[3\] is a prosodic transcriptionsystem that has evolved from a series of workshops whereresearchers met with the goal of defining a common coreof transcription labels.
The TOBI system is used tovarying degrees in the papers by Silverman, Veilleux andOstendorf, and Nakatani and Hirsehberg.
The IPO tax-onomy of intonation for Dutch \[4\], which is used in thework of Collier, de Pijper and Sanderman, was devel-oped from a long tradition of research in intonation thathas recently been applied to several languages.2.
PROSODY & HUMAN-COMPUTERCOMMUNICATIONThe theme of this workshop is on technology for auto-mated language processing, and thus the emphasis inthis overview is on representations and computationalmodels of prosody for spoken language processing appli-cations.
There are two classes of problems in speech pro-cessing for human-computer interactions: peech synthe-sis and speech understanding.
Prosody plays a role inboth problems, as is clearly seen in the different paperscovered in this session.
Prosodic patterns are determinedby the information structure of language and realized inthe speech waveform in terms of F0, duration and energypatterns.
As illustrated in Figure 1, the overall problemin computational modeling of prosody is to move fromone domain to the other, optionally via an intermediateabstract representation.Until recently, almost all research in computational mod-eling of prosody has been in speech synthesis applica-tions, where it has been claimed that good prosody mod-els are among the most important advances needed for315SYNTHESISwords ~ F0syntax durationsemantics energydiscourse?
UNDERSTANDINGFigure 1: Problems in computational modefing ofprosody for human-machine communication.high quality synthesis.
The papers by Silverman, vanSanten, and Collier et al each address different prob-lems related to prosody synthesis.
Silverman attacks theproblem of predicting abstract prosodic labels, while vanSanten presents a model for predicting duration fromtext (and optionally abstract labels).
Collier el al., onthe other hand, analyzes the relation between automat-ically predicted boundary levels and perceived level innatural speech.
Both Silverman and van Santen makethe point that good prosody models can improve natu-ralness, but Silverman also shows that intelligibility canbe improved.Speech understanding is a relatively recent area of re-search for prosody, although researchers have long citedanecdotal evidence for its usefulness.
Within the speechunderstanding domain, the papers in this session are di-rected mainly at contributions of prosody to natural an-guage processing.
An example is the use of prosody incombination with other "knowledge sources" to chooseamong the different possible interpretations of an utter-ance, investigated by Veilleux and Ostendorf.
Some ut-terances from the ATIS domain that illustrate the po-tential role of prosody in interpretation i clude:Does flight US six oh four leave San Francisco on Fridayor Thursday?where both intonation and phrase structure can beused to distinguish between the yes-no question and the"Thursday vs. Friday" alternative, andShow me the itineraries for Delta flights eighty two onethree one two seven t~ve and one seven nine.where knowledge of phrasing can help determine the spe-cific flights referred to.
Prosody can also serve speech un-derstanding systems in an entirely different way, as dis-cussed in the paper by Nakatani and Hirschberg, whichis to cue the presence of a disfluency and the interval ofreplacement.
As an example, consider another sentencefrom the ATIS domain, where prosody would be useful inautomatically distinguishing a disfluency from a speechrecognition error:What is the <light> latest flight on Wednesday goingfrom Atlanta to Washington DC?Of course, the presence of disfluencies complicates thedesign of prosodic models, e.g.
since fluent and disfluentpauses may cue different ypes of syntactic onstituents.An important question in current approaches to com-putational modeling of prosody is the specification of(or even use of) an intermediate phonological repre-sentation.
Although all papers use some sort of dis-crete prosody labels, the paper by Collier et al specif-ically investigates the perceptual relevance of one typeof prosodic label - an integer epresentation of relativephrase breaks - and its acoustic orrelates.3.
IMPORTANT THEMESSeveral important and common themes, indicative of re-cent research trends, cut across subsets of these papers.First, it is significant hat both synthesis and under-standing applications of prosody are represented in thissession, and useful since the developments in one fieldcan benefit he other.
Second, we see corpus-based anal-ysis and automatic training methods being introducedinto many aspects of prosody modeling.
Third, Silver-man's results argue the case for developing models inconstrained domains, but this approach is also supportedby the development of automatic training methods andprobably used to advantage in the papers focussed on theATIS domain.
Fourth, all of the papers use an interme-diate prosodic representation at some level, which raisesthe issue of representation asan important research ques-tion in its own right.
Perhaps the most important con-tribution of this session is the collection of experimentalresults demonstrating the benefits of prosody in actualsynthesis and understanding applications, providing con-crete and not just anecdotal evidence that prosody is auseful component of a spoken language system.
Sincethese themes represent relatively new directions in com-putational modeling of prosody, the applications andmodeling possibilities are only beginning to open up andwe can expect many more gains in the future.Re ferences1.
P. Price and J. Hirschberg, "Session 13: Prosody," Proc.of the DARPA Workshop on Speech and Natural Lan-guage, pp.
415--418, 1992.2.
Prosody definitions, personal communication.3.
K. Silverman et aL, "TOBI: A Standard Scheme for La-beling Prosody," Proc.
of the Inter.
Conf.
on SpokenLanguage Processing, pp.
867-870, 1992.4.
J.
't Hart, R. Colfier and A. Cohen, A Perceptual Studyof Intonation, Cambridge University Press, 1990.316
