INFORMATION EXTRACTION SYSTEM EVALUATIONBeth M. SundheimNaval Command, Control and Ocean Surveillance CenterRDT&E Division (NRaD), Code 444San Diego, CAPROJECT GOALSThis year, project efforts are focused on reapplying andrevising existing evaluation techniques for the purpose ofevaluating English and Japanese information extractionsystems in the joint ventures and microelectronicsdomains.
This year's effort will culminate in the FifthMessage Understanding Conference (MUC-5) in August,1993.development in March, 1993, in preparation for theevaluation i July and the conference in August.
Over20 organizations (including Tipster-sponsoredorganizations) are planning to participate.
Most of thenon-Tipster organizations will be working only on theEnglish joint ventures task or the Englishmicroelectronics task; however, two will be working onjoint ventures in both languages, and one will beworking on microelectronics in Japanese only.RECENT RESULTSMUC-4: The MUC-4 evaluation was conducted inFY92, the conference was held in June, 1992, and aproceedings was published in September.
A single-valuemetric based on recall and precision was developed, andstatistical significance tests were conducted.
A blind testof 17 seventeen systems was conducted using animproved version of the Latin American terrorisminformation extraction task originally defined for MUC-3.
Higher levels of performance by nearly all veteransystems were achieved for MUC-4, but the top scores arestill only moderate.
Progress in controlling the tendencyto generate spurious data was obvious, but the problemstill exists, along with the problem of insufficientdomain coverage and general world knowledge.
The pushto extend the systems has brought into the focus theadverse effect that errors made in early stages ofprocessing at the sentence and phrasal evel have onsuprasentential processing done in subsequent stages.TIPSTER INTERIM EVALUATIONS: Thescoring software used for MUC-4 was rewritten for theobject-oriented Tipster template design.
Accomodationswere made for scoring Japanese.
Alternative scoringprocedures and new metrics were introduced.
The TipsterEnglish and Japanese systems were evaluated inSeptember, 1992 on joint ventures, and they wereevaluated in February, 1993 on both joint ventures andmicroelectronics.
The results of these evaluations arebeing used to make decisions concerning the evaluationmethodology tobe used for the final Tipster evaluation(which will be the MUC-5 evaluation).MUC-5: The call for participation i  MUC-5 wasissued in October, 1992, and participants beganPLANS FOR THE YEAR?
Improve the evaluation methodology to beused for MUC-5 based on the experiences of the Tipsterinterim evaluations.?
Coordinate the MUC-5 evaluation andconduct the conference.?
Foster interest in resource-sharing amongevaluation participants to support future R&D oninformation extraction and NLP in general.403
