The COMLEX Syntax Projecti .Ralph Grishman and Catherine Macleod and Susanne WolffDepartment  o f  Computer  ScienceNew York Univers i tyNew York, NY  10003Developing more shareable resources to support natural lan-guage analysis will make it easier and cheaper to create newlanguage processing applications and to support research incomputational linguistics.
One natural candidate for such aresource is a broad-coverage dictionary, since the work re-quired to create such a dictionary is large but there is generalagreement on at least some of the information to be recordedfor each word.
The Linguistic Data Consortium has begun aneffort o create several such lexical resources, under the rubric"COMLEX" (COMmon LEXicon); one of these projects isthe COMLEX Syntax Project.The goal of the COMLEX Syntax Project is to create amoderately-broad-coverage shareable dictionary containingthe syntactic features of English words,intended for automaticlanguage analysis.
We are initially aiming for a dictionary of35,000 to 40,000 base forms, although this of course may beenlarged if the initial effort is positively received.
The dictio-nary should include detailed syntactic specifications, particu-larly for subcategofization; ur intent is to provide sufficientdetail so that the information required by a number of majorEnglish analyzers can be automatically derived from the infor-mation we provide.
As with other Linguistic Data Consortiumresources, our intent is to provide a lexicon available with-out license constraint to all Consortium members.
Finally,our goal is to provide an initial lexicon relatively quicklywithin about a year, funding permitting.
This implies a cer-tain flexibility, where some of the features will probably bechanged and refined as the coding is taking place.1.
Some COMLEX HistoryThere is a long history of trying to design shareable or"polytheoretic" lexicons and interchange formats for lexicons.There has also been substantial work on adapting machine-readable versions of conventional dictionaries for automatedlanguage analysis using a number of systems.
It is not ourintent o review this work here, but only to indicate how ourparticular project - -  COMLEX Syntax - -  got started.The initial impetus was provided by Charles Wayne, theDARPA/SISTO program manager, in discussions at a meet-ing held at New Mexico State University in January 1992 toinaugurate he Consortium for Lexical Research.
These dis-cussions were further developed at a session at the February,1992 DARPA Speech and Natural Language Workshop at Ar-den House; a number of proposals were offered there for bothinterchange standards and shareable dictionaries and gram-mars.
At a subsequent DARPA meeting in July 1992 theseideas crystallized into a proposal by James Pustejovsky andRalph Gnshman to the Linguistic Data Consortium to fund aCOMLEX effort.Starting from this general proposal, a detailed and formalspecification of the syntactic features to be encoded in thelexicon was developed at New York University in the fall of1992.
These specifications were presented at several meet-ings, at NYU, at the Univ.
of Pennsylvania, nd at NewMexico State University, and form the basis for the projectdescribed here.2.
Structure of the EntriesEach entry is organized as a nested set of feature-value lists,using a Lisp-style notation.
Each list consists of a type symbolfollowed by zero or more keyword-value pairs.
Each valuemay in turn be an atom, a string, a list of strings, feature-value list, or a list of feature-value lists.
This is similar inappearance to the typed feature structures which have beenused in some other computer lexicons, although we have notyet made any significant use of the inheritance potential ofthese structures.Sample dictionary entries are shown in Figure 1.
The firstsymbol gives the part of speech; a word with several parts ofspeech will have several dictionary entries, one for each partof speech.
Each entry has an :orth feature, giving the baseform of the word.
Nouns, verbs, and adjectives with irregularmorphology will have features for the irregular forms :plu-ral, :past, :pastoart, etc.
Words which take complementswill have a subcategorization (:subc) feature.
For example,the verb "abandon" can occur with a noun phrase followedby a prepositional phrase with the preposition "to" (e.g., "Iabandoned him to the linguists.")
or with just a noun phrasecomplement ("I abandoned the ship.").
Other syntactic fea-tures are recorded under :features.
For example, the noun"abandon" is marked as (countable :pval ("with")), indicat-ing that it must appear in the singular with a determiner unless300(verb(noun(prep(adverb(adjective(verb(verb(noun:orth "abandon" :subc ((np-pp :pval ("to")) (np))):orth "abandon" :features ((countable :pval ("with")))):orth "above"):orth "above"):orth "above" :features ((ainrn) (apreq))):orth "abstain" :subc ((intrans)(pp :pval ("from"))(p-ing-sc :pval ("from")))):orth "accept" :subc ((np) (that-s) (np-as-np))):orth "acceptance")Figure 1: Sample COMLEX Syntax dictionary entries.it is preceded by the preposition "with".Other formats have been suggested for dictionary sharing,notably those developed under the Text Encoding Initiativeusing SGML (Standard Generalized Markup Language).
Wedo not expect hat it would be difficult to map the completedlexicon into one of these formats if desired.
In addition,some dictionary standards require an entry for each inflectedform, whereas COMLEX will have an entry for each baseform (lemma).
COMLEX has taken this approach in order toavoid having duplicate and possibly inconsistent informationfor different inflected forms (e.g., for subcategorization).
It isstraightforward, however, to "expand" the dictionary to haveone entry for each inflected form.In addition to the information shown, each entry will haverevision control information: information on by whom andwhen it was created, and by whom and when it was revised.We are also intending to include frequency information, ini-tially just at the part-of-speech level, but eventually at thesubcategorization frame level as well.3.
SubcategorizationWe have paid particular attention to providing detailed sub-categorization i formation (information about complementstructure), both for verbs and for those nouns and adjectiveswhich do take complements.
The names for the differentcomplement types are based on the conventions used in theBrandeis verb lexicon, where each complement is designatedby the names of its constituents, together with a few tags toindicate things such as control phenomena.
Each comple-ment ype is formally defined by a frame (see Figure 2).
Theframe includes the constituent s ructure, :cs, the grammaticalstructure, :9 s, one or more :features, and one or more ex-amples, :ex.
~ The constituent s ructure lists the constituents1 The general format used for constituent s ructures was suggested by BobIngria for the DARPA Common Lexicon.in sequence; the grammatical structure indicates the func-tional role played by each constituent.
The elements of theconstituent s ructure are indexed, and these indices are ref-erenced in the grammatical structure field (in vp-frames, theindex "1" in the grammatical structures refers to the subjectof the verb).Three verb frames are shown in Figure 2.
The first, S, is for fullsentential complements with an optional "that" complemen-tizer.
The second and third frames both represent infinitivalcomplements, and differ only in their functional structure.The to-inf-sc frame is for subject-control verbs - -  verbs forwhich the surface subject is the functional subject of both thematrix and embedded clauses.
The notation :subject 1 inthe :cs field indicates that surface subject is the subject ofthe embedded clause, while the :subject 1 in the :OS fieldindicates that it is the subject of the matrix clause.
The indi-cation :features (:control subject) provides this informationredundantly; we include both indications in case one is moreconvenient for particular dictionary users.
Theto-inf-rs frameis for raising-to-subject verbs - -  verbs for which the surfacesubject is the functional subject only of the embedded clause.The functional subject position in the matrix clause is unfilled,as indicated by the notation :gs (:subject 0 :comp 2).We have compared our subcategofization codes to those usedby a number of other major lexicon projects in order to insurethat our codes are reasonably complete and that it would notbe too difficult to map our codes into those of other systems.Among the projects we have studied are the Brandeis VerbLexicon 2, the ACQUILEX Project \[3\], the NYU LinguisticString Project \[2\], and the Oxford Advanced Learner's Dic-tionary \[1\].2Developed by J. Gfimshaw and R. Jackendoff.301(vp-frame s(vp-frame to-inf-sc(vp-frame to-inf-rs:cs ((s 2 :that-comp optional)):gs (:subject 1 :comp 2):ex "they thought (that) he was always late"):cs ((vp 2 :mood to-infinitive :subject 1)):features (:control subject):gs (:subject 1 :comp 2):ex "1 wanted to come.
"):cs ((vp 2 :mood to-infinitive :subject 1)):features (:raising subject):gs (:subject 0 :comp 2):ex "1 seemed to wilt.
")Figure 2: Sample COMLEX Syntax subcategofization frames.4.
Creation and VerificationWe are deriving the word and part-of-speech lists for COM-LEX from two sources: (1) the dictionary file prepared byProf.
Roger Mitton, which was derived from the Oxford Ad-vanced Learner's Dictionary; (2) word lists (with frequencyinformation) obtained from corpora nd tagged corpora.
Weare already using the "joint ventures" corpus prepared forthe Tipster information extraction task (and for MUC-5); weexpect to employ other and larger corpora in the future.Using these word lists, a number of part-time staff memberswill manually assign syntactic features to each word.
Thesestaff members will have access to several conventional dic-tionaries as well as a large on-line text concordance.We intend to use a variety of techniques toverify the dictionaryinformation.
A portion of the dictionary will be coded twice; acomparison of the resulting entries will give us some estimateof the error rate.
We will compare the subcategofizationinformation produced by our codes with the codes derivedfrom the Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary, and reviewdiscrepancies) For the less frequent features, we will list allthe words assigned a particular feature; this often will pointup inconsistencies in coders' judgements.
Finally, we hope inthe near future to couple the assignment of subcategorizationfeatures with the tagging of a corpus.5.
StatusAs of April 1993,?
the formal specifications have been further evised andare now largely complete3We would hope to obtain permission to compare our dictionary withother broad-coverage dictionaries, and use the result o further improve ourdictionary.a manual has been prepared with more extensive narra-tive descriptions of the classes to assist coders in prepar-ing dictionary entriesa menu-based program has been developed for rapidpreparation of dictionary entries; this program is codedin Lisp using the Garnet graphical user interface packagean initial dictionary of all closed-class words (those withparts of speech other than noun, verb, adjective, andadverb) has been preparedCreation of dictionary entries for the open-class words is justbeginning.
We hope that corpus tagging of word instanceswith respect o their subcategorization pattern can begin inthe summer and proceed in parallel with the dictionary prepa-ration effort.6.
AcknowledgementThis material is based upon work supported by the Ad-vanced Research Projects Agency through the Office of NavalResearch under Award No.
MDA972-92-J-1016 and TheTrustees of the University of Pennsylvania.Re ferences1.
A. S. Hornby, ed.
Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary ofCurrent English, 1980.2.
Naomi Sager.
Natural Language Information Processing,Addison-Wesley, 1981.3.
Antonio Sanfilippo.
LK_B Encoding of Lexical Knowledge.In Default Inheritance in Unification-Based Approaches to theLexicon, T. Briscoe, A. Copestake, and V. de Pavia, eds., Cam-bridge University Press, 1992.302
