SESSION 1: SPOKEN LANGUAGE SYSTEMSAlexander I. RudnickySchool of  Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh PA 15213 USABy themselves, speech recognition and natural languageprocessing have limited applications, the reason is that eachonly accomplishes a part of what humans are capable ofwhen they use language.
Spoken language systems repre-sent he merger of these two technologies and provide anintegrated functionality hat more closely approximateshumans capabilities in speech communication.The addition of natural language processing enhancesspeech recognition by allowing people to speak naturallywithout he need to remember specific ommand words orto keep within a specific grammar.
In principle, as long aswe are able to describe something verbally, aspoken lan-guage system should be able to understand us.Without he ability to interpret natural language, speechrecognition is suited only for a subset of tasks (though cer-tainly not trivial ones), such as data entry, simple com-mands or dictation.
Similarly, without speech recognitionnatural language isrestricted to the interpretation f writtenlanguage, a stylized form of human communication.
Spo-ken language systems thus represent an attempt to automatespeech communication.
While limited in terms of the targetbehavior, they still represents an advance over the capabili-ties of the individual technologies.The development of spoken language systems has manyfacets.
Certainly it pushes the development of the basictechnologies, speech recognition and natural language pro-cessing, since successful nderstanding ultimately dependson high quality processing at these levels.
At the same time,spoken language generates the need for advances in otherdomains.The requirements of fluent communication require ngi-neering of algoritluns to produce real-time understanding ofspeech; since human speech is a highly interactive mediumreal-time response isnecessary for fluency.
It also raises theneed for incorporating additional aspects of analysis intothe process.
Prosody is a case in point.
The development ofspoken language systems also requires the implementationof running systems that can be used to perform non-trivialtasks.
This in turn creates the need for studying the usabil-ity of spoken language systems, ince some issues criticalto performance r veal themselves only in the course ofactual use.
In turn these issues impact he development ofprocessing strategies atthe level of the individual technolo-gies.
The use of spoken language systems under more real-istic conditions also serves as a stimulus for the study ofrobustness, a system's ability to handle variations in envi-ronment, microphone characteristics as well as the vagariesof human speech.The development of spoken language systems requires up-port activities, uch as the development of training and testcorpora nd the development of evaluation techniques.
Thespoken language community has developed a large corpusof speech data that attempts o approximate he speech thatwould occur under eal conditions, t the same time, elabo-rate evaluation techniques have been developed that allowus to compare and diagnose the characteristics of spokenlanguage systems.The papers in this session at first glance appear to fall intotwo groups.
One group concerns itself with evaluation anddata collection while the other concerns itself with lan-guage processing techniques.
In fact the two sets of papersshare an important theme in common, that of real data.
Inreading these papers one is struck by the extent o whichthe use of real data has shaped what we do and how we doit.The paper by Pallett et aldescribes the evaluation proce-dures cuffently in use in the spoken language technologyprogram.
In comparing the current evaluation procedureswith those in use a few years ago, one is struck by theextent to which the program has progressed from the use ofcarefully controlled ata to the use of more natural (andmore difficul0 speech.
While the continuous speech recog-nition evaluation uses read speech for its main evaluations,a new "stress test" has been introduced which exposes ys-tems to a variety of unpredictable material, a condition thatbegins to approximate what recognition system might actu-ally be exposed to under ealistic onditions.
The spokenlanguage valuations have seen a similar progression fromsingle sentences toedited scenarios to an attempt to usecomplete scenarios for evaluation.Data collection, as described in the paper by Hirshman andthe MADCOW committee has seen a similar progression,from read sentences generated from an artificial grammar,to collection through the use of wizard systems, to the useof real systems to collect data fro both training and testing.The paper by Thompson and Bard represents perhaps thelogical conclusion of this process, the collection of speechfrom natural human-human interactions.
While the Edin-burgh corpus is meant for analysis rather than for speechsystem development, it nevertheless represents he kind ofdata that spoken language systems will ultimately be askedto process.
In the discussion of this paper it was pointed outthat human-computer communication might urn out to bequite different from human-human communication a d thatthings learned from this corpus might not be transferrableto that situation.
Some interest was also expressed in thephenomenon foverlap and its role in communication.The three following papers, from Paramax, BBN and SRIdescribe current improvements to the natural languagecomponents of spoken language systems.
All three papersattempt to deal with the problem of how to adapt a syntac-tic-based parser to the realities of language as spoken byhumans and further transcribed (perhaps erroneously) byspeech recognition systems.
The paper by Linebarger et aldescribes a robustness heuristic (based on the ability to skipnon-keywords) that allows the Paramax parser to interpretotherwise unprocessed inputs.
The paper by Stallard andBobrow also addresses the problem of salvaging otherwiseunparsable inputs by the use of semantic structure when theuse of syntactic structure fails to produce an interpretation.It was pointed out in the discussion that he semantic post-processing might not be portable.
The paper by Dowding etal presents a parsing strategy that uses the mutual con-straints of syntax an semantics to generate parses, togetherwith heuristics that allow the system to produce an inter-pretation even if no satisfactory initial parse is found.
Inter-estingly, for the ATIS task, none of the syntax based parserscan currently outperform a frame-based parser.One of the key arguments hat have been made in favor ofsyntax-based parsing is that he knowledge gained in onedomain will transfer to other domains and will save thework of having to build a parser for the new domain.
Thepaper by Linebarger et aldescribes how the Paramaxrobustness heuristics can be easily ported betweendomains.
Portability can refer not only to transfer betweendomains but also to transfer between languages, a poten-tially more difficult ask.
The paper by Glass et aldescribesexperiences in porting the MIT Voyager system fromEnglish to Japanese.
While this paper is a good example ofhow a syntactic parser can be successfully ported to a newdomain, it is nevertheless ignificant that the parsing strat-egy had to be altered in order to accommodate the structureof the Japanese language.
In the discussion, itwas pointedout that discourse-level processing might not, in principle,be portable, though the elementary processing need for theVoyager domain turned out to be portable.6
