Extracting Constraints on Word Usagefrom Large Text CorporaKathleen McKeown and Rebecca PassonneauDepartment of Computer Science450 Computer Science BuildingColumbia UniversityPROJECT GOALSOur research focuses on the identification of word usageconstraints from large text corpora.
Such constraints areuseful both for the problem of selecting vocabulary forlanguage generation and for disambiguating lexical mean-ing in interpretation.
We are developing systems that canautomatically extract such constraints from corpora andempirical methods for analyzing text.
Identified constraints?
will be represented in a lexicon that will be tested com-putationally as part of a natural anguage system.
We arealso identifying lexical constraints for machine translationusing the aligned Hansard corpus as training data and areidentifying many-to-many word alignments.One primary class of constraints we are examining is lex-ical; that is, constraints on word usage arriving from col-locations (word pairs or phrases that commonly appeartogether).
We are also looking at constraints deriving fromdomain scales which influence use of scalar adjectives anddeterminers, constraints on temporal markers and tense,constraints on reference over text, and constraints on cuewords and phrases that may be used to convey explicitinformation about discourse structure.RECENT RESULTS?
Packaged Xtract, a collocation extraction system, withwindows interface for use by other sites and havelicensed to several sites.?
Implemented a prototype system to compile candidatetranslations for English collocations by identifying col-locations in the source language using Xtract, and in-crementally building the target collocation from highlycorrelated words in the target corpus.
The system hasbeen evaluated on a small number of collocations, yield-ing 80% accuracy.?
Implemented a system for retrieving semantically re-lated adjectives from a parsed text corpus, using asimilarity metric and clustering techniques.
Evaluationand comparison with human judges shows that systemperformance is comparable tohuman performance.?
Experimented with a genetic programming algorithm toidentify statistically significant links between cue wordsand other words or part of speech in a large text corpus.Early results are promising, predicting, for example, thatsentence initial cue words are used in their discoursesense.?
Implemented semantic and syntactic onstraints on his-torical information in statistical reports as revision rulesin a report generation system.?
Developed 3 simple algorithms for identifying segmentboundaries using features of the text, and evaluated theirsuccess at identifying the segment boundaries thathumans identify.
The algorithms each use different lin-guistic information: speech pauses, cue words, andreferring expressions.?
Developed method for extracting tense sequencesacross adjacent sentences from corpora and evaluatedbehavior of semantically under-constrained past and pastperfect enses in the Brown corpus.
Developed a seman-tic representation for past and for perfect, and an algo-rithm for understanding tense in discourse.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARIn the area of machine translation, we are improving theimplementation to prepare for large scale experimentation,including indexing the corpus to speed up testing andautomating subcomponents.
We will begin large scale test-ing within the month, beginning with 1 month's worth ofdata (about 100 collocations) and moving to 1 year's worthof data or 1000 collocations.
We will continue to improvethe accuracy of our method for retrieving scalar adjectives;we are investigating the use of other sources of linguisticdata such as conjunction and negation.
We will add teststhat exploit gradability in order to identify scalar and non-scalar groups.
We will refine methods for extracting tensesequences from corpora that fit certain criteria by addingnew tenses, or adverbs, or aspectual type to the criteria andwill identify additional constraints on tense understanding.We will further efine our algorithms for identifying dis-course structure.
We are developing a generation systemto test constraints on historical information and a bidirec-tional semantic engine to test constraints on tense, aspect,and discourse cues.391
