INTERPRETATION OF PROPER NOUNSFOR INFORMATION RETRIEVALWoojin Paik 1, Elizabeth D. Liddy 1, Edmund Yu 2, Mary McKenna I1 School of Information StudiesSyracuse UniversitySyracuse, NY 132442 College of Engineering and Computer ScienceSyracuse UniversitySyracuse, NY 132441.
INTRODUCTIONMost of the unknown words in texts which degrade theperformance of natural language processing systems areproper nouns.
On the other hand, proper nouns arerecognized as a crucial source of information foridentifying a topic in a text, extracting contents from atext, or detecting relevant documents in informationretrieval (Rau, 1991).In information retrieval, proper nouns in queriesfrequently serve as the most important key terms foridentifying relevant documents in a database.Furthermore, common nouns (e.g.
'developingcountries') or group proper nouns (e.g.
'U.S.government') in queries ometimes need to be expandedto their constituent set of proper nouns in order to serveas useful retrieval terms.
We have implemented twosolutions to this problem: one approach is to expand aterm in a query such as 'U.S.
government' o allpossible names and variants of United Statesgovernment ent it ies.
Another approach assignscategories from a proper noun classification scheme toevery proper noun in both documents and queries topermit proper noun matching at the category level.Category matching is more efficient than keywordmatching if the request is for an entity of a particulartype.
For example, queries about governmentregulations of use of agrochemicals on produce fromabroad, require presence of the following proper nouncategories: government agency, chemical and foreigncountry.Our proper noun classification scheme, which wasdeveloped through corpus analysis of newspaper texts,is organized as a hierarchy which consists of 9branching nodes and 30 terminal nodes.
Currently, weuse only the terminal nodes to assign categories toproper nouns in texts.
Based on an analysis of 588proper nouns from a set of randomly selected ocumentsfrom Wall Street Journal, we found that our 29meaningful categories correctly accounted for 89% of allproper nouns in texts.
We reserve the last category as amiscellaneous category.
Figure 1 shows a hierarchicalview of our proper noun categorization scheme.2.
BOUNDARY IDENTIF ICAT IONThe proper noun processor herein described is a modulein the DR-LINK System (Liddy et al in press) fordocument detection being developed under the auspicesof DARPA's  T IPSTER Program.
In ourimplementation, documents are first processed using aprobabilistic part of speech tagger (Meeter et al 1991)and general-purpose noun phrase bracketter whichidentifies proper nouns and proper noun phrases intexts.
We have developed a special purpose proper nounphrase boundary identification module which extends theproper noun bmcketting to include proper noun phraseswith embedded conjunctions and prepositions.
Themodule utilizes heuristics developed through corpusanalysis.
The success ratio is approximately 95%.Incorrectly identified proper noun phrases are due mainlyto two reasons: 1) the part of speech tagger identifiescommon words as proper nouns; and, 2) conflictsbetween the general-purpose noun phrase bracketter andthe special-purpose proper noun boundary identifier.While the first source of error is difficult to fix, we arecurrently experimenting with applying the specialpurpose proper noun boundary identifier before thegeneral-purpose noun phrase bmcketter.
Our preliminaryresults show that this would result in a 97% correctratio for identifying boundaries of proper nouns.309GeographicEntityCityPortAirportIslandCountyProvinceCountryContinentRegionWaterGeo.
Misc.Affiliation Organization Human Document Equipment Scientific Temporal Misc.L t t L L tReligion Company Person Document Software Disease Date Misc.Nationality Company Type Title Hardware Drugs TimeGovernment Machines ChemicalsU.S.
Gov.OrganizationFigure 1: Proper Noun Categorization Scheme3.
CATEGORIZAT IONNext, the system categorizes all the identified propernouns using several methods:1) comparison to lists of known prefixes, infixes andsuffixes for each category of proper noun;2) consulting an alias database consisting of alternatenames for some proper nouns;3) look-up in a proper noun knowledge-base of propernouns and their categories extracted from onlinelexical resources (e.g., World Factbase, Gazetteer),and finally;4) applying context heuristics developed from corpusanalysis of the contexts which suggest certaincategories of proper nouns.While being categorized, the proper nouns arestandardized in three ways:1) prefixes, infixes, and suffixes of proper nouns arestandardized;2) proper nouns in alias forms are translated into theirofficial form, and;3) the partial string of a proper noun which wasmentioned in full earlier in the document isco-indexed for reference r solution.A new field containing the list of each standardizedproper noun and its category code is added to thedocument for later use in several stages of matching andrepresentation.
The first two techniques improveretrieval performance, while the co-indexing ofreferences produces a full representation f a propernoun entity and all its accompanying information.Figure 2 shows a schematic view of DR-LINK's propernoun categofizer.4.
USE  OF  PROPER NOUN INMATCHINGWhen matching documents o queries, either the lexicalentry for the proper noun can be matched or the matchcan be at the category level, as each proper nounoccurring in a document is recorded in the proper nounfield of the document along with its appropriatecategory code.
For example, if a query is about abusiness merger, we can limit the potentially relevantdocuments to those documents which contain at leasttwo different company names, flagged by two companycategory codes in the proper noun field.
For manyqueries, using the standardized form of a proper nounreduces the number of possible variants which thesystem would otherwise need to search for.
Forexample, 'MCI Communications Corp.', 'MCICommunications', and 'MCI', are all standardized as'MCI Communications CORP' by our proper nouncategorizer.
This process is similar in purpose to thecommon practice in standard retrieval matching ofreducing variants by stemming.
However, stemming isnot a viable means for standardizing proper names.310~ - ~  TaggerPOST& ~ .
~fProper Noun~ - ~Categorizer/~ R / ?
~  - /?PN~e~ -Braeketter ~ Boundary ~ Standardizer ~ Resolver ~ CreatorI I\] Alias \] Rule Bases\ [Database \[ : ScUofnfieX~ tp ;~,s ~?c ~i xSFCoder IFigure 2: DR-LINK Proper Noun CategonzerText +ProperNoun FieldWhile the category matching strategy is useful in manycases, an expansion of a group proper noun such as'European Community', which occurs in a query, tomember country names is also beneficial.
Relevantdocuments o a query about sanctions against Japan byEuropean Community countries are likely to mentionactions against Japan by member countries by namerather than the term in the query, EuropeanCommunity.
We are currently using a proper nounexpansion database with 168 expandable ntries forquery processing.
In addition, certain common ouns ornoun phrases in queries uch as 'socialist countries' needto be expanded to the names of the countries whichsatisfy the definition of the term to improveperformance in detecting relevant documents.
Thesystem consults a list of common nouns and nounphrases which can be expanded into proper nouns andactively searches for these terms during the queryprocessing stage.
Currently, the common nounexpansion database has 37 entries.The creation and use of proper noun information is firstutilized in DR-LINK system as an addition to thesubject-content based filtering module which uses ascheme of 122 subject field codes (SFCs) from amachine readable dictionary rather than keywords torepresent documents.
Although SFC representation a dmatching provides a very good first level of documentfiltering, not all proper nouns reveal subjectinformation, so the proper noun concepts in texts arenot actually represented in the SFC vectors.For processing the queries for their proper nounrequirements, we have developed a Boolean criteriascript which determines which proper nouns orcombinations ofproper nouns are needed by each query.This requirement is then run against he proper nounfield of each document to rank documents according tothe extent o which they match this requirement.
In therecent esting of our system, these values were used torerank the ranked list of documents received from theSFC module.
The results of this reranking placed all therelevant documents within the top 28% of the database.It should also be noted that the precision figures on theoutput of the SFC module plus the proper nounmatching module produced very reasonable precisionresults (.22 for the ll-point precision average), eventhough the combination of these two modules was notintended to function as a stand-alone r trieval system.Also, the categorization information of proper nouns iscurrently used in the system's later module whichextract concepts and relations from text to produce amore refined representation.
For example, proper nounsreveal the location of a company or the nationality of anindividual.
The proper noun extraction andcategorization module, although developed as part of theDR-LINK System, could be used to provide improveddocument representation for any information retrievalsystem, because it permits queries and documents obematched with greater precision and the expansionfunctions improve recall.5.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONWhile we have processed more than one gigabyte of textusing the current version of the proper noun categorizerfor the TIPSTER 18 month testing, the evaluation of311the proper noun categorizer herein reported is based on25 randomly selected Wal l  Street Journal documentswhich were compared to the proper noun categorizationdone by a human.
Table 1 shows the categorizer'spe~rformance over 588 proper nouns occurring in the testset.
In addition to 588 proper nouns, 14 common wordswere incorrectly identified as proper nouns due to errorsby the part of  speech tagger and typos in the originaltext; and the boundaries of  17 proper nouns wereincorrectly recognized by the general-purpose phrasebracketter ror.Total Total PrecisionCorrect Incorrect *City 11 33 0.25Port 10 2 0.83Province 23 1 0.96Country 66 1 0.99Continent 1 0 1.00Region 1 7 0.13Religion 2 0 1.00Nationality 32 2 0.94Company g 7 13 0.87Government 5 1 0.83U.S.
Gov.
20 g 0.71Organization 9 1 0.90Person 48 57 0.46Title 42 4 0.91Document 1 2 0.33Machine 0 1 0.00Date 27 0 1.00Misc.
65 0 1.00TOTAL 450 133 0.77TOTAL-Misc.
385 133 0.74* Precision =Total # CorrectTotal # Correct + Total # IncorrectTable 1: DR-LINK Proper Noun Categonzer Performance65 proper  nouns were correct ly  categor ized asmiscel laneous as they did not belong to any of our 29meaningful  categories.
This may be considered acoverage problem in our proper noun categorizationscheme, not an error in our categorizer.
Some examplesof the proper nouns belonging to the miscel laneouscategory are: 'Promised Land', 'Mickey Mouse',  and'IUD'.
The last row of Table 1 shows the overallprecision of our categorizer based on the proper nounswhich belong to the 29 meaningful categories.Total Total i Total RecallCorrect incorrect Missing *WithMiscellaneous 450 133 17 0.75Category iWithoutMiscellaneous 385 133 17 0.72Category* Recall =Total # CorrectTotal # ActualTotal # Actual =Total # Correct + Total # Incorrect + Total # MissingTable 2: DR-LINK Categonzer Overall RecallMost  of  the wrongly categorized proper nouns areassigned to the miscel laneous category,  not mis-categorized to another meaningful category.
The onlynotable case where a proper noun was mis-categorized asanother meaningful category, occurred between the cityand the province categories.
Our categorizer assigned theprovince category ( IDA's  Gazetteer  cal ls  statesprovinces) to 'New York' when the proper noun wasactually referring to the name of  the city.Errors in the categorization of  person and city namesaccount for 68% of  the total errors.
To correct thecategorization errors in person names, we are currentlyexperinaenting with a list of common first names as aspecial lexicon to consult when there is no match inprefix and suffix lists nor any context clues to othermeaningful  categories.
The main reason for mis-categorizing city names as miscellaneous proper nounswas due to a special convention of newspaper text.
Thelocational source of the news, when mentioned at thebeginning of  the document, is usually capitalized.
Forexample, if  the story is about a company in Dallas thenthe text will start as below:DALLAS: American Medical Insurance Inc. said that ...312This problem will be solved in the new version of ourproper noun categorizer by incorporating a capitalizationnormalizer, which converts words in all upper case tolower case except the first character of a word, before thepart of speech tagging.
We are also in the process ofincorporating context information for identifying citynames in our categorizer based on the observation thatcity names are usually followed by a country name or aprovince name from the United States and Canada.Low precision in categorizing region names such as'Pacific Northwest' is due to incomplete coverage ofpossible region names in the proper noun database.
Weare currently developing a strategy based on contextclues using locational prepositions.Table 2 shows the overall recall figure of our categorizerwhich is affected by the proper noun phrase boundaryidentification errors caused by the general-purposephrase bracketter.6.
CONCLUSIONIn comparing our proper noun categorization result toothers in the literature, Coates-Stephens' (1992) resulton acquiring genus information of proper nouns wascontrasted to our overall precision.
While his approachis to acquire information about unknown proper nouns'detailed genus and differentia description, we considerour approach of assigning a category from aclassification scheme of 30 classes to an unknownproper noun generally similar in purpose to hisacquisition of genus information.Based on 100 unseen documents which had 535unknown proper nouns, FUNES (Coates-Stephens,1992) successfully acquired genus information of 340proper nouns.
Of the 195 proper nouns not acquired, 92were due to the system's parse failure.
Thus, the successratio based on only the proper nouns which wereanalyzed by the system, was 77%.
DR-LINK propernoun eategorizer's overall precision, which is computedwith the same formula, was 75%, including propernouns which were correctly categorized asmiscellaneous.Katoh's (1991) evaluation of his machine translationsystem, which was based on translating the 1,000 mostfrequent names in the AP news corpus, 94% of the1,000 names were analyzed successfully.
Our precisionfigure of categorizing person ames was 46%.
However,Katoh's system kept a list of 3,000 entries as a systemlexicon before the testing.
Thus, a considerable numberof the 1,000 most frequent names would have beenalready known, while DR-LINK system's proper nouncategorizer had only 47 entries of person names in theproper noun knowledge base before the testing.Therefore, we believe that the performance ofour personname categorization will improve significantly by theaddition of a list of common first names in ourknowledge base.Finally, the evaluation result from Rau's (1991)company name extractor is compared to the precisionfigure of our company name categorization.
Bothsystem relied heavily on company name suffixes.
Ran'sresult showed 97.5% success ratio of the program'sextraction of company names that had company namesuffixes.
Our system's precision figure was 87%.However, it should be noted that our results are basedon all company names, even those which did not haveany clear suffixes or prefixes.REFERENCESCoates-Stephens, S. (1992).
The Analvsis andAcQuisition of Proper Names for Robust TextUnderstandinm Unpublished octoral dissertation, CityUniversity, London.Katoh, N., Uratani, N., & Aizawa, T. (1991).Processing Proper Nouns in Machine Translation forEnglish News.
Procggdings of the Conference on'Current Issues in Computational Linguistics'.
Penang,Malaysia.Liddy, E.D., Paik, W., Yu, E.S., & McVearry, K.: (Inpress).
An overview of DR-LINK and its approach todocument filtering.
Proceedings of th~ Human LanguageTechnology Workshon.
Princeton, NJ: March 1993.Meteer, M., Schwartz, R. & Weischedel, R. (1991).POST: Using probabilities in language processing.Proceedings of the Twelfth International Conference onArtificial Intelligence.
Sydney, Australia.Rau L. (1991).
Extracting Company Names from Text.Proceedings of the Seventh Conference on ArtificialIntelligence APPlications.
Miami Beach, Florida.313
