NATURAL LANGUAGE PLANNING DIALOGUE FOR INTELLIGENTAPPLICATIONSJames F. Allen and Len SchubertDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of RochesterRochester, NY 14627PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project is to develop the underlyingtechnologies for spoken dialogue systems that serve asinterfaces to complex, state-of-the-art reasoning systems.Most current speech and natural anguage projects arefocusing on applications that involve very littleintelligent reasoning, such as data-base query and form-filling.
However, the great promise for speech and naturallanguage interfaces is in providing useful interfaces tocomplex AI reasoning systems uch as planning systemsand expert systems.We are developing adomain-independent general model ofsemantic representation together with an integrated plan-based representation both for problem solving in thedomain and for managing the dialogue itself.
Thesemantic representation is episodic logic, a richrepresentation language, based on the notion of episodes,that can representation f the meaning of a wide range oflinguistic onstructs.
The plan-based model provides thenecessary infrastructure needed to integrate syntactic andsemantic processing, discourse structure, and domainreasoning to create an effective dialogue system.RECENT RESULTS1) We developed a plan reasoning system that can handlea wide range of interpretation problems that arise in theTRAINS dialogs, including suggestions of courses ofaction, of objects to use in the plan, of goals, and ofother constraints on the plan.
In addition, it supportspurpose clause qualifications on any of these suggestions.2) We completed a new version of the discourse reasonerand tested it on some sample dialogs.
The new systemmaintains what each agent believes, what each agent hassuggested about he plan, and what parts of the plan havebeen agreed on so far.
It can filter possible speech actinterpretations using knowledge of the agents' beliefs andknowledge of the current plan.3) We developed and implemented a scope disambiguationalgorithm.
Operators are assigned their scope dependingon their syntactic, semantic and pragmatic properties inconjunction with reference and tense interpretation.
Thiswork includes a model of contextual reasoningappropriate for interpreting definite descriptions.4) Chung Hee Hwang completed her doctoral dissertation:"A Logical Approach to Narrative Understanding", whichfully specifies a general semantic representation forlanguage, episodic logic.
This work is especially notablefor the breadth of its semantic overage, including detailedanalyses of tense constructs and of adverbial modification.5) We completed the design of a system that, whenpresented with a word it has never seen before, creates anew lexical entry with meaning postulates that representa partial semantic definition of the word by consideringspecific word formation processes (e.g., affixation,argument s ructure altemations, compounding etc.
).6) We set up a dialogue lab this year so that dialoguescan be collected in a more controlled setting.
With thedialogs collected so far, we are marking intonationalfeatures, annotating repairs, and producing an alignedtranscription using specially developed tools built on topof the WAVES system.
We are developing standards forannotating higher level discourse phenomena, such assegmentation, co-reference and speech act analysis.PLANS FOR THE COMINGYEAR1) Complete a new domain plan reasoning system basedon plan graphs and test it extensively on data from a widerange of TRAINS dialogues.2) Develop new versions of each module in the TRAINSsystem to support incremental interpretation, so thesystem be based on intonational phrases rather thancomplete sentences.3) Implement he lexical reasoning system describedabove to derive partial meanings of new words.4) Complete annotation schemes for segmentation, co-reference, speech acts and discourse acts, and test byannotating several hours of dialogue.5) Complete new versions of our work on scopedisambiguation and reference, and on the dialoguereasoner.
These will be described in two Ph.D.dissertations by David Traum and Massimo Poesio.420
