SESS ION 3: CONTINUOUS SPEECH RECOGNIT ION*Douglas B. Paul, ChairMIT Lincoln LaboratoryLexington, MA, 02173The papers in this session focus on techniques for and ap-plications of large-vocabulary continuous speech recogni-tion.
The technique oriented papers discuss techniquesfor channel compensation, fast search, acoustic model-ing, and adaptive language modeling.
The applicationsoriented papers discuss methods for using recognizers forlanguage identification, speaker identification, speaker-sex identification, and keyword spotting.In "Efficient Cepstral Normalization for Robust SpeechRecognition," Liu et al discuss everal preprocessors forchannel (including microphone) compensation.
Severalof these techniques cover only channel equalization andseveral also account for additive noise.
The authors ob-tained the their best unknown-microphone performanceusing a technique that accounts for both the equalizationand the additive noise.In "Comparative ExPeriments on Large VocabularySpeech Recognition," Schwartz et al describe severalaspects of the BBN recognition system.
They brieflydescribe their use of forward-backward N-best search.They also found a number of small modeling improve-ments which add up to a significant total improvementin performance.
Finally, they describe their resultson channel compensation--which arenot completely inagreement with the results of the previous paper.
"An Overview of the SPHINX-II Speech RecognitionSystem" by Huang et al describes the CMU SPHINX-II recognition system.
It describes their feature set,their use of tied-mixture (semicontinuous) pdfs, theirstatewise-clustered phone models (senones) and theirsearch strategy.
It also describes a technique for combi-nation of the acoustic and language model probabilitieswhich does not assume statistical independence b tweenthe two information sources.Murveit et al describe the search strategy used in theSRI recognizer in "Progressive-Search Algorithms forLarge Vocabulary Speech Recognition."
This progres-*This work was sponsored by the Advanced Research ProjectsAgency.
The views expressed are those of the author  and do notreflect the official policy or posit ion of the U.S. Government.sive search strategy performs the search several times,initially using inexpensive coarse models and then pro-gressively more detailed and expensive models on eachiteration.
Information from each iteration is used toproduce a smaller word network to constrain the searchspace of the next iteration.In "Search Algorithms for Software-Only Real-TimeRecognition with Very Large Vocabularies," Nguyen etal.
describe the techniques used at BBN to achieve real-time recognition of a 20K word task.
The techniquescenter on using a very fast approximate forward search.Information saved from this forward search is then usedto constrain a backwards A* search.
This backwardssearch is inherently fast and can provide an N-best sen-tence list for more detailed reevaluation.Gauvain and Lamel, in "Identification  Non-LinguisticSpeech Features," apply a phonetic recognizer to severalother purposes.
By using multiple phone sets running in-dependently in parallel, they use the output likelihoodsto identify speaker sex, speaker identity, and the lan-guage.
In each case the phone sets are matched to theaspect o be identified.
"On the Use of Tied-Mixture Distributions" by Kimballand Ostendorf discusses the use of tied Gaussian-mixturepdfs, which have been shown to yield good recognitionperformance in standard HMM recognizers at a numberof sites.
They discuss the application of tied mixturesto their stochastic segment recognition models and showimproved performance over a non-mixture based system.In "Adaptive Language Modeling Using the MaximumEntropy Principle," Lau et al describe a new methodfor recognition-time adaptation of the of the languagemodel based upon the recent past.
The technique uses"trigger" words that signal an increased probability forother words in the near future.
They report a greaterreduction in perplexity than that obtained by the use ofa "caching" adaptive language model.In "Improved Keyword-Spotting Using SRI's DECI-PHER (TM) Large-Vocabulary Speech-Recognition Sys-67tem," Weintraub describes use of a large-vocabulary rec-ognizer to a keyword-spotting task.
He shows signifi-cantly improved performance over the traditional tech-nique of searching for only the keywords against a back-ground of unknown words.Peskin et al, in "Topic and Speaker Identification viaLarge Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition," de-scribe the use of the Dragon large-vocabulary ecog-nizer to perform both topic and speaker identification.The technique described here uses a topic and speaker-independent recognizer to produce a word sequence.This word sequence can then be economically rescoredusing topic-dependent language models for topic identifi-cation or speaker-dependent acoustic models for speakeridentification.
The authors report good performance onboth tasks.68
