UMass/Hughes TIPSTER Project on Extraction from TextWendy Lehnert*Department of Computer Scienceuniversity of MassachusettsAmherst, MA 01003Charles Dolan**Hughes Research Center3011 Malibu Canyon RoadMalibu, CA 90265PROJECT GOALSThe primary goal of our effort is the development ofrobustand portable language processing capabilities andinformation extraction applications.
Our system is basedon a sentence analysis technique called selective conceptextraction.
Having demonstrated the general viability ofthis technique in previous evaluations \[Lehnert, et al1992\], we are now concentrating on the practicality of ourtechnology by creating trainable system components oreplace hand-coded data nd manually-engineered software.Our general strategy is to automate the construction ofdomain-specific dictionaries that can be completed withminimal amounts of human assistance.
Our system relieson two major tools that support automated dictionaryconstruction: (1) OTB, a trainable part-of-speech tagger,and (2) AutoSlog, a concept node generator that operates inconjunction with the CIRCUS sentence analyzer.
Conceptnodes are dictionary definitions for CIRCUS that encodelexically-indexed interactions between syntacticconstituents and semantic ase frames.
OTB and AutoSlogboth require minor technical adjustments and minimalassistance from a "human in the loop" in order to create anew domain-specific dictionary, but this can generally beaccomplished by a single individual in the space of oneweek \[Riloff, 1993\].A third tool, 'ITS-MUC3, is responsible for the creation ofa template generator that maps CIRCUS output into finaltemplate instantiations.
"ITS-MUC3 can be adjusted for anew domain in one day by a knowledgeable t chnicianworking with adequate domain documentation.
Thisminimal manual engineering is required to specify objectsand relationships.
Once these adjustments are in place,TTS-MUC-3 uses CIRCUS and a development corpus ofsource texts and key templates to train classifiers fortemplate generation.
No further human intervention isrequired to create template generators.RECENT RESULTSOur emphasis has been on fast system prototyping andrapid system development cycles.
In preparing for theTIPSTER 18-month evaluation, we customized a completeinformation extraction system for the domain of Englishmicroelectronics (EME) in the space of four weeks workingfrom scratch without he benefit of any domain experts.This time period included the development ofa new facilityfor keyword recognition that had not been deemed necessaryfor any of our previous information extraction systems.
Ifthis facility had not been added, we could have cut ourEME system development time down to two weeks.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARWithin the next six months we will incorporate semanticfeatures into our system.
We do not have semantic featuresin the current system because we would have had to acquirethem through manual means, and we wanted to wait untilwe could acquire them through training.
We now believethat we have identified a method for automated featureacquisition that should suffice for our purposes \[Cardie,1993\].We are generally satisfied with the performance of OTB,AutoSlog, and CIRCUS and v,e believe the addition ofsemantic features will significantly boost our overallperformance.REFERENCES1.
Cardie, C.T.
"A Case-Based Approach to KnowledgeAcquisition for Domain-Specific Sentence Analysis".To appear in Proceedings of the Eleventh AnnualConference on Artificial Intelligence.
1993.2.
Lehnert, W., D, Fisher, J. McCarthy, E. Riloff, and S.Soderland, "University of Massachusetts: MUC-4 TestResults and Analysis", in Proceedings of the FourthMessage Understanding Conference, 1992. pp.
151-158.3.
Riloff, E. "Automatically Constructing a Dictionaryfor Information Extraction Tasks".
To appear inProceedings of the Eleventh Annual Conference onArtificial Intelligence.
1993.
*Umass: Claire Cardie, Ellen Riloff, Joseph McCarthy,Stephen Soderland, and Jon Petetson**Hughes: Seth Goldman.417
