SESS ION 5: D ISCOURSEJerry R. Hobbs, ChairArt i f ic ia l  In te l l igence CenterSRI  In ternat iona lMen lo  Park ,  Ca l i forn ia  94025The fundamental problem in discourse is "What struc-ture is there in discourse above the level of the sentence?
"This question can be asked in terms of text versus dia-logue.
Is there a kind of structure that is exhibited intext but not in dialogue, or in dialogue but not in text?What are the appropriate structural descriptions of textand of dialogue?The question can also be asked from the perspectiveof recognition and from the perspective of generation.There is the structure that the speaker puts there andthe structure the hearer discovers there.
Are these thesame?
Does one have primacy over the other?
For ex-ample, does the speaker impose the structure so that itis the job of the hearer to discover it, no matter whatit is, or is it necessary for the speaker to design his dis-course in a way that makes it as easy as possible for thehearer to interpret?The four papers in this session discuss various aspects ofthis family of questions.The first paper, by Liddy and her colleagues at Syra-cuse University, is concerned with text rather than dia-logue, and recognition rather than generation.
Structurein text can be studied from a general point of view orfrom a genre-specific point of view.
This paper examinesthe structure specific to the genre of newspaper articles.The structure found can be in the form of a hierarchy, atree-like structure, much like the syntactic structure ofsentences, or it can consist of a division of the text intosegments of various kinds, performing various functions,such as the Lead, the Main Body, and so on.
Liddy andher colleagues argue that the latter kind of structure ismore appropriate for newspaper articles.Among the questions addressed in this paper are?
What are the structural elements or possibilities??
How can they be recognized, computationally??
Once recognized, how can they be used?The remaining papers are concerned with dialogue.
Thekey idea in investigations of discourse from an artificialintelligence perspective is that the structure of a dialogueis, or is at least derived from, the structure of the par-ticipants' plans.
"Plan" here is meant in the AI sense ofa hierarchical structure of causal relations, decomposinggoals into subgoals, and these subgoals into further sub-goals, and so on.
An utterance in a dialogue is an actionin a larger plan to achieve some goal.
Generation is amatter of finding the right such actions.
Recognition isa matter of discovering the role that action plays in theoverall plan.Moore's paper examines a problem that arises in gener-ation.
We don't like to be told too much.
If we alreadyknow something, we don't like to hear it again.
If thespeaker does not take this into account, the result iswhat my children used to refer to as "talking to me likeI'm a retard."
It is also an inefficient way of conveying aplan or some other structured body of information.
Theproblem that Moore addressees i  "How should we useknowledge gained from the previous discourse to conveya plan as efficiently as possible?
"The paper by Ferguson and Allen take the perspectiveof recognition.
Part of understanding an utterance isdiscovering the role it plays in the speaker's larger plan.But the speaker's plan, or intentions, are inaccessibleto us.
All we have to go on is what he or she said.From that we have to hypothesize a plan in which theobservable utterances would make the most sense.
Thisis the problem that Ferguson and Allen address: "Howcan we recognize the speaker's plan, given only sparseinformation about it?
"In stretches of dialogue larger than a single utterance,neither participant is exclusively a speaker or exclusivelya hearer.
They are each executing their own plan, andtheir plans change a8 they are impacted by the action~of the other participant.
In very focused, collaborative,problem-solving dialogues, they are working together tocome up with a single plan for solving the problem.
Howcan a single shared plan arise out of the interaction?
Thisis the problem addressed in the paper by Biermann and157his colleagues at Duke University.
Each participant haspieces of a plan; how can they be combined into a single,agreed--upon plan?
The particular situation described isa very common one.
One participant, in this case, the tu-toring system, has control over general knowledge aboutthe domain.
The other participant, here, the user, hasthe knowledge of the specific problematic situation.
Howcan these be combined into a solution of the problem?158
