SHOGUN-  MULT IL INGUAL DATA EXTRACTIONFOR T IPSTERP.
Jacobs, Principal InvestigatorGE Research and Development Center1 River Rd., Schenectady, NY 12301PROJECT GOALSThe TIPSTER/SHOGUN project aims at substantiveimprovements in coverage and accuracy for automaticdata extraction through innovative strategies in knowl-edge acquisition, run-time integration, and control.
Oneof four teams in the data extraction component of theTIPSTER program, TIPSTER/SHOGUN includes GECorporate Research and Development, Carnegie MellonUniversity - Center for Machine Translation, and GEManagement and Data Systems.Data extraction systems interpret the key content of nat-ural language text, producing a structured representa-tion of items that range from high-level business rela-tionships to detailed knowledge coding of technologiesand industry classifications.
This task applies to bothJapanese and English in each of two domains--jointventures and micro-electronics.
As such, TIPSTER isconsiderably more detailed and comprehensive than pre-vious text interpretation experiments, including priorMUC (Message Understanding Conference) valuations.The goals for SHOGUN are the following:?
Accuracy significantly ahead of MUC-4, with lev-els near those of trained human analysts at about100 times human speed using conventional hardwareand software.?
Automated knowledge acquisition and extensibil-ity tools that support customization times of a fewweeks for new applications.?
Multi-lingual performance, with comparable l velsin both languages and the highest possible overlapbetween languages.The project is now within a few months of completion,and is on target oward all of these goals.RECENT RESULTSDuring the early stages of the project, the team reachedvery good initial levels of performance on MUC-4 bysuccessfidly integrating methods used at GE and CMU,marking the first time that parsing systems of this levelof coverage have been effectively combined.
This pro-vided an important testbed and also allowed for multi-lingual development--In recent months, Japanese per-formance has remained close to English performance.As the system coverage and accuracy have continuedto improve, the most important recent hrust has beenthe incorporation of most of the knowledge and controlstrategies of the system into a finite-state driven ana-lyzer, effectively replacing the traditional parsing layerwith a detailed knowledge base of finite-state rules com-piled from syntactic and lexical resources.
While thisseems close to work done in the speech community, it isan unusual approach for text, where the high perplexityand long sentence l ngth have seemed to favor semantics-driven and high-level syntactic models.The finite-state model allows different knowledgesources, particularly corpus-based knowledge, to havemore of an impact on interpretation.
Data extractionis a knowledge-intensive task, and it has been much sim-pler to augment the finite-state rules with corpus datathan it was for the more abstract rules.While the performance on all tasks still lags behind hu-man analysts, closing this gap may not be as hard aswe first expected.
Much of the difference comes fromportions of the work that are still incomplete.
In ad-dition, the ability to use automatically-acquired corpusdata gives the programs a distinct advantage on certainportions of the task.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARAs the project nears completion, the team is approach-ing the goal of near-human accuracy mostly by finishingcertain key details, such as better reference resolutionand word sense discrimination.
At the same time, weare close to some significant advances in corpus-basedtraining methods that will not only isolate the contextrequired to discriminate nuances of meaning but also sig-nificantly reduce development, time by acquiring domainknowledge from the x:orpus.
This may the key to futureapplications of TIPSTER technology.395
