DR-LINK: Document Retrieval Using Linguistic KnowledgeElizabeth D. Liddy, Sung H. MyaengSchool of Information StudiesSyracuse UniversitySyracuse, NY 13244PROJECT GOALSDR-LINK is a modular information retrieval systemwhich takes a conceptual-linguistic approach todocument detection by satisfying two apparentlyopposing task requirements: the need to handle largenumbers of documents efficiently and the need torepresent and retrieve on well-specified informationneeds.
DR-LINK's approach is to enrich the semanticrepresentation of the texts, while focusing itsprocessing on those documents which have realpotential of being relevant to a user's query.
DR-LINKconsists of six modules which, in combination, producetextual representations that capture great breadth andvariety of semantic knowledge which will be used toimprove retrieval effectiveness, in terms of both recalland precision.
To produce this enriched representation,the system uses lexical, syntactic, semantic, anddiscourse linguistic processing techniques for distillingfrom documents and topic statements all the rich layersof knowledge incorporated in their deceptively simpletextual surface and producing arepresentation which hasbeen shaped by all these levels of linguistic processing.Specifically, these modules: 1) create summary-levelcontent-vector representations of each text; 2) assignconceptual categories to all proper-noun entities; 3)delineate ach text's discourse-level structure; 4) detectrelations among concepts; 5) expand lexicalrepresentations with semantically-related rms, and; 6)represent and match concepts and relations viaConceptual Graphs.CURRENT STATUSThe system's six modules are:* Subject Field Coder* Proper Noun Interpreter* Discourse-level Text Structurer* Relation-Concept Detector* Conceptual Graaph Generator* Conceptual Graph MateherAlthough our system is now functional, it was run withincomplete knowledge bases, partial implementation fsome modules, absence of some importantfunctionalities, and only minimal integration of theoutput from early system modules by later modules.RECENT RESULTSAt the 18th month TIPSTER evaluation meeting, thefull DR-LINK System was run on 25 Topic Statementsagainst the Wall Sweet Journal corpora for the ad hoctesting.
In addition, the first three system modules weretested in the routing situation on a equal footing withthe other systems.
For the ad hoc testing, our 1 I-pointprecision was .2638.
However, the cut-off criterionalgorithm which will determine for each individualquery how many of the top-ranked ocuments by theSubject Field Coder (SFC) and Proper Noun Interpreter(PN1) ranking should be processed by the remainingmodules was not implemented.
Therefore, the fullsystem simply ran against the top 2,000 rankeddocuments for each query.
Once the algorithm is inplace, there will be a reasonable mathematical means fordetermining how many documents should be passed onto later modules o that the set will contain all therelevant documents.
In addition, some of the moduleswere tested alone or in combination as system runs.
Forexample, the 11-point average precision of the SFC +PNI run was a respectable .2245.
And although the cut-off criterion was not implemented, by simply rankingthe documents in terms of their SFC + PNI similarityto the Topic Statements, all of the relevant documentswere ranked in the top 28% of the database.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAROur major thrust in the months ahead is to complete thesystem's unfinished knowledge bases and algorithms,and to fully integrate the rich representations which thevarious ystem modules produce.
We are still analyzingresults whicl~ will suggest necessary adjusunents.
Ourgoal is to accomplish the very rcfined level ofmatching which the system is capable of producing.416
