NIST-DARPA Interagency Agreement: Spoken Language ProgramDavid S. Pallett, Principal InvestigatorNational Institute of Standards and TechnologyRoom A216, Building 225 (Technology)Gaithersburg, MD 20899PROJECT GOALS1.
To coordinate the design, development and distributionof speech and natural language corpora for the DARPASpoken Language research community.2.
To design, coordinate implementation, a d analyze theresults of performance assessment benchmark tests forDARPA's speech recognition and spoken language under-standing systems.RECENT RESULTS1.
Acquired hardware and installed the MIT/LCS-devel-oped "TINA" and SRI-developed "DECIPHER"(tm) ATISsystems.2.
Revised the NIST speech recognition software to incor-porate phonologically-motivated s ring alignment proce-dures, and prepared an ICASSP'93 paper to document theadvantages ofthis approach.3.
Developed a speech data quality assurance softwarepackage to measure S/N and other properties.
Shared thissoftware package with other sites, including SRI, for use inmonitoring quality for the WSJ-CSR corpora.4.
Acquired and made use of recordable CD-ROM technol-ogy for preliminary, limited, distribution of speech corpora.5.
Participated, with SRI, in annotation and "bug fixes" forthe ATIS MADCOW-coUected corpora.6.
Prepared for, and implemented benchmark tests for: (1)the Resource Management corpus (final test set, Septem-ber), (2) the WSJ-CSR corpus (November), (3) the "dry nanstress test" (December), (4) the ATIS MADCOW corpus(November), and (5) the "dry run end-to-end" evaluation(JanualT).PLANS1.
Produce and distribute the next phase of the WSJ-CSRcorpora, "WSJ-CSR Phase II, Part 1", and some portion ofPart 2, on pressed CD-ROM in collaboration with the Lin-guistic Data Consortium.2.
Coordinate collection, screening and processing of thenext portion of ATIS MADCOW data, to be collected withthe 46-city OAG- derived relational database.3.
Implement benchmark tests in the WSJ-CSR and ATISdomains, as required by the DARPA Program Manager andCoordinating Committee.402
