TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER:PROBLEMS AND PROSPECTSJesse w. FussellDepar tment  of  Defense9800 Savage RoadFort  Meade,  MD 207551.
INTRODUCTIONFor at least the last twenty years, DARPAand other government organizations have beensponsoring language processing research.
The goalof this research is to develop processes to automateor semi-automate manu~ speech or text operationsand to create new, capabilities to make it easier forhumans to work with speech and textual data.During that time, a substantial amount of moneyhas been provided to the nation's best organizationswhich have employed the most innovative andintelligent individuals.
However, while there is alarge body of objective evidence whichdemonstrates continuous progress toward thevarious technical goals of the programs, the factremains there has been virtually no success to datein transferring any of the research effort into day-to-day operational use by any of the governmentsponsors.
The purpose of this paper is to explorethe reasons for the dearth of technology transfer inthis technical area in the past, to forecast prospectsfor technology transfer in the future, and to suggestsome ideas for stimulating the process.2.
TECHNOLOGY TRANSFERPROBLEMSMany reasons can be cited for lack of tech-nology transfer successes in the past.
The onewhich typically is of greatest interest to the researchcommunity is that the algorithms developed in thepast were not considered adequate for operationaluse.
In the speech recognition area, wordrecognition error rates were intolerably high unlessthe speech source was limited vocabulary, isolatedword, wide bandwidth and free of backgroundnoise.
In addition, applications were limited to thesimplest uses because there was littleunderstanding of how to apply languageprocessing results to speech.
In the textprocessing area, problems being addressed wereoften severely constrained in terms of vocabulary,grammar and application.
But it was vitrblallyimpossible to find real-world problems that wereconstrained enough to allow application of thenewly developed techniques.
The substantialprogress that has been made by the researchcommunity has changed this situation.
Thecurrent state-of-the-art, while clearly inadequatefor very general problems, has great prospects forcertain moderately specialized applications.An additional problem that has impededtechnology transfer has been the high cost andlimited capability of the data and signal processingequipment needed to implement he algorithmsresearchers developed.
In the speech processingarea, researchers used to be restricted to general-purpose hardware which was tens or hundreds oftime slower than real time, or of using special,fixed-point signal processors with very limitedmemory and dynamic range which wereprogrammed in assembly language.
Use of moremodern computer languages such as LISP allowedfaster design and implementation f experiments,but even with machines specially designed forthat environment, processing was very slow.
Inaddition, the graphics needed for a good userinterface was limited in display speed andresolution.
The net result of these limitations wasthat, except for the simplest algorithms, it wasimpractical to transfer research successes intooperational use.
However, while the thirst ofresearchers for ever greater computing, storage,networking and display capability still exists, it isgreatly slackened.
The explosive progress ofcomputing over the past decade, led by thedevelopment of modern, high-performance, low-295cost, graphics workstations, now allows real-timeor faster operation of fairly computational ndmemory intensive algorithms on floating pointprocessors programmed in high-level languages.Another fundamental problem has been thatthe customer processing environment did notcontain the infrastucture needed for the introductionof the techniques being developed.
New digitalspeech processing systems could not be easilyintroduced into systems in which speech signalswere being processed as analog signals and storedon analog tape.
Text processing systems could notbe made to operate in an environment in whichtextual information was still being handled on paperand data bases were on file cards.
Again, thanks tomajor advances in data networks, low-costterminals, optical character ecognition, data basesoftware, A/D and D/A conversion, and othertechnologies, many offices now contain thebackbone of the system needed to make use of newtext or speech processing techniques.
In addition,the adoption of standards for programminglanguages, operating systems, windowing systemsand network protocols often is resulting in theusers obtaining computing systems which arecompatible or which can easily be made compatiblewith the systems on which the processes are beingdeveloped.
Thus, standardization will result intechnology transfer being an easier job.The problems described so far may be classedas technical problems.
And, as stated above, thesetechnical problems are rapidly decreasing inimportance.
However there is one technicalproblem that still must be overcome beforetechnology transfer can occur on a widespreadbasis.
And unfortunately this remaining majortechnical problem has received little attention todate, probably because of the way in which theresearch problem has been structured.
That is, theproblems reported on by most researchers at thisconference are primarily defined by two things: theselected (or created) and marked training and testdata, or corpus, and a criterion or criteria for testingthe researchers ystem against that corpus.
Thisstandardization of problem domain, goals and testcriteria has been a powerful tool of the researchmanagers.
It has focussed researchers" attentiononto relatively specific goals and objectives and,since the performance of the algorithms producedby different researchers can be directly compared, ithas simultaneously created an environment ofconstructive competition.
However this narrowfocus has resulted in the neglect of one critical areaof work: the study of the process of converting analgorithm or process from one domain, that issupported by a well defined and documented corpus,to a different, operational domain, which mayhave little marked training or testing data.
Theresult is there has been little work to evenformally define the process necessary to convertfrom one domain to another and from oneobjective function to another one, much less toautomate or semi-automate hat process.
In otherwords, there has been insufficient emphasis on orefforts to achieve technology transfer.There are also a number of political,managerial or psychological problems which needto be addressed ff the transfer of languageprocessing techniques into operational use is to besuccessful.
All of these nontechnical problems areassociated with the potential customers of theresearch.
And, it is important to recognize that ingeneral, the customers are not the sponsors of theresearch.
The sponsors are usually otherresearchers or research managers who aresupposed to represent he customers.
The truecustomers are the people or organizations that willbe the end user of any new product or capabilitythat results from the research effort.The first problem involving the potentialcustomer is that the customer usually not directlyinvolved in the research efforts of the humanlanguage technology program.
Or to put the shoeon the other foot, most researchers are notsufficiently familiar with the customers" needs andoperating procedures to know whether a testcorpus is truly representative of "real" data andwhether the research goals will solve any "real"problem.Government customers also tend to berelatively conservative and sometimes evensuspicious of new ideas and new technology.They frequently have developed a well understoodroutine and procedure for doing their jobs and arereluctant to change.
In other words, there isoften a lot of inertia which may only be overcomethrough the use of force.
In this context, onesuch force which comes from demonstratedsuccess.
But since the voice and text processingtechnology is (and probably always will be)imperfect, "success", like "beauty" will be definedin the eye of the beholder.
Since customers willbe the ultimate judge of our products, we need toensure that those products are demonstrated in296the best possible manner.
Another force for changeresults from budget reductions.
The conflictingpressures of less resources and desire to maintaincapability tends to make some customers muchmore open to accepting new, imperfect technology.3.
RECOMMENDATIONSFirst and foremost, the current program ofresearch must be continued.
Over the last fewyears, there has been substantial progress inunderstanding the fundamental problems oflanguage processing and in developing ever bettertechniques for addressing those problems.
Thisprogress must continue if we are to have any hopeof success against the less constrained problems.However, the goal of this research programshould be broadened to explicitly includetechnology transfer.
The task of adapting speechand text understanding processes from one domainto another needs to be specified as one of theprogram goals.
Algorithms need to be developedwhich can be easily converted from one task toanother without requiring years of additional workby highly trained scientists.
Techniques need to bedeveloped which will allow supervised adaptationto new situations.One implication of broadening the program toextend across domains is the need to increase thedimensionality of the research corpora so they alsoextend across domains.
Instead of having data fora single situation which is segmented into portionsfor training, test and validation, this single setshould be considered as the training portion for onedomain, with another similar set for a different, butrelated domain which could be used to test howwell the algorithm performs on the new domain,and possibly a third set of data from yet a thirddomain to validate the results of the domaintransfer test.There also needs to be additional efforts byresearchers and research managers to find potentialcustomers in the government, toeducate them on thegoals and results of the program and to solicit theirinputs into those goals.
In addition, researchersneed to spend more time working with customers tobetter understand the manual processes currentlybeing used so they can better understand what isneeded in order to produce a "successful" anguageprocessing capability.Finally, the overall goal of the programshould be broadened, and funding provided toproduce pilot or prototype systems which havebeen designed to be moved into operationalsituations and used for extended periods of time.Experimental operational prototypes are anabsolutely necessary step in any long-termresearch effort.
The trick is to determine the timefor that step.
The time is now.297
