USABLE, REAL-TIME, INTERACTIVE SPOKEN LANGUAGESYSTEMSJohn Makhoul and Madeleine Bates, Principal InvestigatorsBBN Systems and Technologies70 Fawcett St.Cambridge, MA 02138PROJECT GOALS ?The primary objective of this project is develop a ro-bust, high-performance, domain-independent spoken lan-guage system.
The system, termed HARC (Hear And Re-spond to Continuous peech), is composed of the BYBLOSspeech recognition and the DELPHI natural language under-standing system.
The goal is to develop systems that exhibitthe following advances: high-accuracy speech understanding ?with vocabulary of up to 10,000 words; a highly interactiveuser interface capable of mixed-initiative dialogue and othertypes of system feedback; transparent adaptability to newusers; easy portability to new applications; a system imple-mentable in real-time on cost-effective COTS (commercial,off-the-shelf) hardware.RECENT RESULTS?
Developed the first complete real-time spoken language ?system on a workstation, without he use of additionalhardware.
The system integrated our real-time speechrecognition and NL systems through the N-best inter-face.
The real-time system was demonstrated in theATIS domain at the DARPA 1992 and 1993 workshopson speech and natural language processing.
The systemwas developed on a Silicon Graphics Indigo worksta-tion and has been ported to other Unix-based worksta-tions.
??
Built a new semantic intmgretation component thatenables a cleaner separation between the domain-independent knowledge stored in a general grammar ofEnglish and the domain-dependent k owledge associ-ated with particular lexical items, thus enhancing porta-bility and domain-independence.
The new componentis based on the notion of translating from grammaticalrelations to semantic relations.?
Developed a hybrid approach to semantic representa-tion that combines the expressive power of logic withthe reasoning power of frames.
This allows the sys-tem to detect contradictions (e.g., "flights to denver ...uhh to Boston") without being forced into the simpleframe-slot approach that is inadequate for many typesof natural language phenomena.Developed the Semantic Linker, a new fallback un-derstanding component using probabilities that reducesthe understanding error rate by 30%.
The SemanticLinker makes extensive use of the hybrid representa-tion and interpretation component above to take overwhen DELPHI's regular parser cannot understand aninput utterance.Laid out an initial design and developed an initial repre-sentation for a new statistical model of understanding,the Hidden Undersatanding Model.
The new modelwill enable us to carry out studies in the alignment ofcorpora to semantic interpretations, with the goal ofautomatically deriving semantic rules.Participated inthe November 1992 speech, NL and SLSevaluations, and in the end-to-end log-file evaluationdry-run experiment.Chaired the organi7atiorl of the March 1993 DARPAHuman Language Technology workshop.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAROur plans for the coming year center on extending the workabove in several areas.
In particular, we plan to:Integrate the Semantic Linker and the parser, to increasethe capabilities of both.Improve our discourse understanding component, mak-ing it more domain-independent.Develop ways of extending our grammar for differ-eat domains.
This will allow us to keep our domain-independent knowledge base, but to tailor it for domain-specific syntactic onstructions.Continue the development ofthe Hidden UnderstandingModel and test it by deriving the semantic rules for areal domain.Collect additional ATIS data for the general commu-nity, using our real-time system and the new, expandeddrllaha$~,387
