PROJECTED GOVERNMENT NEEDS IN HUMAN LANGUAGETECHNOLOGY AND THE ROLE OF RESEARCHERS IN MEETINGTHEMHelen M. Gigley, Ph.D.Head, Human Computer  Interaction LaboratoryNaval  Research LaboratoryCODE 5530Washington, D.C.  20375-5337ABSTRACT 1After a brief discussion of current government uses and needsfor human language technology, this paper will discuss theuses which will probably survive in the future as well asattempt o define some anticipated ones.
Business uses,military uses, and education/training receive the most focustoday.
Current state of the art technologies are providinginitial resources to enable better management of the above.Suggested critical efforts to make the technologies moreappropriate for the tasks at hand in the government will bediscussed.
A tentative view of the role of researchers, inproviding the basis to obtain adequate critical naturallanguage technologies, will be presented.functional needs.
Inter- and intra-agency coordination andinformation dissemination are critical to efficient andproper functioning of our government.
When is naturallanguage technology a suitable solution to maximize theeffectiveness in these efforts?
Some examples will shedlight on the nature of our current human languagetechnology capabilities and provide guidance on what stillis needed even within our current government operations.Information Management Functions of theGovernment:?
Access to personnel.?
Dissemination of information.1.
CURRENT GOVERNMENT NEEDSIN HUMAN LANGUAGETECHNOLOGY?
Acquisition of information.?
Protection of access to information.The functions of government fall into three generalclasses:1. business, both external and internal;2. military, beyond the business uses; and3.
educational/training responsibilities.One very important question related to determining currenthuman language technology needs is to look at these threebroad areas and to assess what technology exists today andhow effectively it can be applied.
Another equallyimportant question which must be considered is, "Doestechnology help or hinder the functionality of thegovernment?
"1.1 Human Language Technology andCurrent Government Business NeedsGovernment business needs are coextensive withoperational business needs of the United States.
Access toinformation, interpersonal communication, and joint workenvironments within government operations are all critical1 The opinions and assertions in this paper are those ofthe author and are not to be construed as official orreflecting the views of the Department of the Navy.Communication Functions of the Government:?
External Communication Functions --need to communicate with the generalpublic and provide suitable responses notonly in content but in presentation style.Internal Communication Functions --communication of protocols, proceduralmodif ications, relevant day to dayoperational changes.
* Multi-language interaction facility wherethe interaction may be in any of severallanguages as well  as translationcapabilities.
* Joint work environments where multipledecision making is enhanced via multi-tasking environments at distributedlocations.287Educat ion /Tra in ingGovernment:Funct ions  of the greatly depend on how education eeds for the entire U.S.are met.?
Required to maintain up-to-date knowledge ofsystem operations and procedures.?
New personnel must be brought up to speedon how to function.The bottom line for government-needed human languagetechnology is that it should provide alternative resourcesfor communication which increase the functional precisionand response to enhance productivity.1.2 Human Language Technology andCurrent Military NeedsMilitary human language technology needs include manyof the logistical and business-type needs just mentioned.In addition, military needs include factors of real-timeperformance and secure access which are not absolutewithin business ones.
The functions of military systemsassume a different purpose.
Presently, they also insist ona role for humans which many business functions attemptto minimize; these systems are Human-in-the-LoopSystems.
Military systems enhance decision making,include dissemination of information having variousforms, and often must work in real-time response arenas,under secure conditions.
How to maximize theinformation capacity within Human-in-the-Loop decisionsupport systems is a critical need.
Human languagetechnology has a vital part to play in providing thiscapability.
Language capabilities need to functionprecisely, correctly, and efficiently in multiple modalities.Military Decisions require real-time languagefacilities.
Military decisions require integration ofmany types of information which exist in disparate forms.Language technologies provide a possible addition tocurrent methods to increase the information available instressful, short-response-time decision situations.
Aprimary concern is to determine what languagetechnologies toemploy and under what conditions.Security implications for human languagetechnology appear chiefly as constraints on itsuse.
Speech is available to all within range of itsaudible production.
Its internal form may also beaccessible.
What language t chnologies maintain securityand how might language technologies provide added secureaccess constraints?
Voice recognition can be a key, but isit sufficient?1.3 Human Language Technology andEducation / Training NeedsEducation and training needs in government function donot appear to be diminishing.
Even though the work forcemight shrink, its demography is constantly changing.Meeting the challenge of developing suitably capableindividuals from the current and future work force willCurrently, demands on the government work force beyondphysical plant maintenance and related in-houseinfrastructure function, minimally require languagefluency in English.
All positions require literacy inEnglish.
Second language fluency and literacy also havebecome astaffing criteria for some positions.
All of thesefacts present problems for many individual's qualificationsto work for the government.Lack of language fluency and literacy will create apossible problem in the near future as older workers retire.Many of the tasks government workers perform arelanguage based, whether accessing information, providingit, or collecting it.
An issue is can we use technology toreplace them?
Do we want to?
And if not, how will weguarantee that they can do the job?
Training systems forlanguage skills can be one viable solution.
Thesesystems will be multimodal and require all aspects oflanguage function.As an additional need for training and education, we willneed to continually update the skills and facility ofpersonnel on the job.
This is a critical need in themilitary.
Having language technology available todevelop the training methodologies is critical.
What willdocuments be like?
How will one use the availablelanguage tools?
Answers to these questions are unknownbut are hinted at in the current multimode capabilitieswhich can now be integrated on our workstations.When considering education and training for thegovernment, it should be the case that developedtechnology is also relevant and available to educationsystems throughout the country.2.
CURRENT TECHNOLOGIES--ARETHEY HELPING OR HINDERING?As previously mentioned, successful application oftechnology can only be measured by its efficiency andprecision in use.
Otherwise we are in a state oftechnology only for technology's sake.
Let's look atsome currently available technologies which have beenintroduced into government.
What can we learn from theirintroduction?Immediately, one is struck by the fact that more oftenthan not a technology is introduced and deployed publiclywithout any study as to its impact.
We need to considerthe impact of such adoptions before rather than after theyget put into place.
One only has to keep in mind thework of Gray, John, and Atwood (1) which demonstratedthrough analysis and data evaluation that introducingtechnology does not necessarily increase ffectiveness.We are in that situation now with our languagetechnologies.
Caution is advised and careful scrutiny ofthe effects hould be considered when adopting any new288technological invention.
A case in point is voice mail.My personal opinion is that it is one of the greatest cogsin U.S. competitiveness today.Imagine yourself as a foreign business person calling aU.S.
top company to place an order and having to sit fortwo minutes or more to reach the appropriate orderingdepartment while menu options are read sequentiallyOften, in voice mail, one is not even sure the menu itemselected is the appropriate one.
The language technologyrelies on hardware selection which is sequential andnumeric, but is this necessary?We need to develop methods for studying the impact ofpotential technologies and their effect on function.
Weneed to consider the problem from two viewpoints, thefunction being served within the government and equallyimportant, the functional demands it places on non-government or citizen users of the technology evenwithout their consent.
Language technology more thanother types of technology subtly conveys an institution'sattitude toward its clientele.
This interaction for manygovernment functions is vital.Functional transaction speed is an important factor of anytechnology that should always be considered.
We need tominimize the impact of the technology on the efficiencyof human functioning, and still be able to get necessarythings done.3.
ROLE OF  RESEARCHERS INMEET ING LANGUAGE TECHNOLOGYNEEDSResearchers' primary focus continues to be studying basicscientific principles and using them to expand thecapabilities of language technology regardless of modality.Evaluation and determination of constraints onapplicability of the technology also need to be developed.Furthermore, researchers need not only to consider theircontribution as a basic scientific result but must be awareof the potential use of the result within our society, bothfavorably and adversely.Suppose many access functions are completely assigned tomachines and that as a user, you need to obtain some vitalinformation.
When the machine responds that you are notpermitted access even though you know you are, how willyou be able to get to a responsible agent to correct heproblem if you are talking to a machine?
Will theresponsible agent also be a machine?
How will you findout it is a machine if all interactions are via languagetechnology?
Ultimately, with automatic languageprocesses in place, how would you determine how tocorrect he situation?
This is bordering on the question ofreality and virtual environments and their detectability ifand when we really produce language technologies that areindeterminable from real speakers.
Is this possible?Even now we can produce speech that sounds like a givenindividual based on sampling of the person~s actualspeech.
Where will we draw the limits of such use?Where will be draw the limits of appropriateness forlanguage technology usage in general?
There are vitalresearch issues to be addressed regarding these concerns.4.
CONCLUSIONGovernment needs for language technology encompassthose of general business as well as more demandingmilitary constraints.
The technologies we currently havein place have not always been introduced expeditiously andbeneficially.
This does not mean that we should abandonall efforts to develop language, but instead points to amore cautionary view of accepting language technology asa solution.
The basic efforts now underway will advancethe role of language technology and will enhancefunctionality of government.
We as researchers need toaccept some of the responsibility for making sure thecontributions togovernment function in the future remainas positive nhancements rather than harmful ones.5.
REFERENCES1.
Gray, Wayne D.; John, Bonnie E.; and Atwood,Michael E.; "The Precis of Project Ernestine or AnOverview of a Validation of GOMS," CHI 92 ConferenceProceedings, Monterey, CA, pp.
307-312, 1992.289
