THE CONSORTIUM FOR LEX ICAL  RESEARCHY.
Wilks, Principal InvestigatorComputing Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, New Mexico 88003PROJECT GOALSThe Consortium for Lexical Research (CLR), estab-lished by the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, with funding from DARPA, is now beginning itsthird year.
The Consortium is sited at the ComputingResearch Laboratory, New Mexico, USA, under its Di-rector, Yorick Wilks, Associate Director Louise Guthrie,and an ACL advisory committee consisting of Roy Byrd,Ralph Grishman, Mark Liberman and Don Walker.The objective of the Consortium for Lexical Researchis to act as a clearinghouse, in the US and internation-ally, for lexical data and software.
It shares lexical dataand tools used to perform research on natural anguagedictionaries and lexicons, as well as communicating theresults of that research, thus accelerating the scale andspeed of the development of natural language under-standing programs via standard lexicons and software.The task of the CLR is primarily to facilitate research,making available to the whole natural anguage process-ing community certain resources now held only by a fewgroups that have special relationships with companies ordictionary publishers.
The CLR, as far as is practical,accepts contributions from any source, regardless of the-oretical orientation, and makes them available as widelyas possible for research.RECENT RESULTSOur focus this year has been on the acquisition of newmaterials and the recruiting of new members.
Responseto the Consortium has been enthusiastic and continuous.The repository has grown significantly and the consor-tium membership has quadrupled in the last year.
Infor-mation about the CLR including the catalog of offerings,the membership or provider agreements or any previousnewsletter can be obtained from lexical@nmsu.edu.Our current status can be summarized as follows:Col lect ion A group of public domain resources has beenobtained and cataloged and acquisitions of software anddata from publishers and researchers is ongoing.
We nowoffer nearly 100 items.Cont racts  Together with our university lawyers, wehave developed contracts for members and providers.Negotiations with dictionary publishers have been diffi-cult, but we now have arrangements with Longman andHarper-Collins publishers which facilitate the purchaseof their machine readable dictionaries by members.
Atpresent he distribution of the dictionaries i still in thehands of the publishers and is slow.
We are working onways to expedite the process.Membersh ip  We now have 54 members of the CLR: 28universities, 20 companies (including Apple, Microsoftand Xerox) and 4 government organizations.
We havehad over 2,000 ftp accesses in the last six months frommore than 20 countries around the world.Publ ic i ty The Consortium has begun a newsletterwhich is distributed to members and to anyone whohas requested information about the CLR.
The newslet-ter highlights a different piece of software or data eachmonth, and informs its readers of any new items whichare available.Conferences In December 1992 the Computing Re-search Laboratory hosted the second workshop of theConsortium for Lexical Research: U.S./European Coop-eration.
The workshop was sponsored jointly by NSFand the European Commission to discuss internationalcooperation of lexical computation.
Twenty-five re-searchers participated in the workshop.
A report is avail-able through the Computing Research Laboratory.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARWe plan to expand membership and holdings steadilyover the year, and progress toward our long term goalof establishing the Consortium as a self-supporting en-tity.
We hope to do this by signing agreements withother dictionary publishers to make their products avail-able through the CLR and by more actively seeking con-tributions of software or data from researchers.
Ourmembership drive will focus on obtaining more inter-national members, and members from the community ofresearchers and language specialists who may not haveeveryday access to the internet.404
