RESEARCH IN NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSINGRalph Grishman, Principal InvestigatorDepar tment  of  Computer  ScienceNew York Univers i tyNew York, NY 10003PROJECT GOALSOur central research focus is on the automatic acquisitionof knowledge about language (both syntactic and semantic)from corpora.
We wish to understand how the knowledge soacquired can enhance natural anguage applications, includ-ing document retrieval, information extraction, and machinetranslation.
In addition to experimenting with acquisitionprocedures, we are continuing to develop the infrastructureneeded for these applications (gr~unmars and dictionaries,parsers, gr~unmar evalmdion procedures, etc.
).The work on information retrieval and supporting technolo-gies (in particular, robust, fast parsing), directed by TomekStrzalkowski, is described in a separate page in this section.RECENT ACCOMPL ISHMENTS?
Developed techniques for computing word similaritiesb~v;ed on the co-occurrence of words in the s~une (syn-tactic) contexts in a large corpus.
Used these similari-ties to "smooth" ~mtomatically-acquired f quency &daon verb-argument and head-modifier co-occurrence, anddemonstr~ded that the smoothing increases coverage ofthe patterns found in new texts.
(This work fs describedin a paper in this volume.)?
Participated in Message Understanding Conference -4.
Incorporated an enhanced time analysis module, anenhanced reference resolution module, and a stochas-tic part-of-speech tagger into our information extractioncomponent, as well as making general improvements tothe semantic models of descriptions ofterrorist incidents.Demonstrated a significant improvement in performanceover MUC-3.?
In order to gain a better understanding of the problemsinvolved in porting natural language systems to new do-mains, "translated" our MUC-3/MUC-4 system for ex-tracting information about errorist incidents to processSpanish news reports.
This required evelopment of arelatively broad-coverage Spanish gr~unmar and adap-tation of the Collins Spanish-English machine-readabledictionary.Developed a prototype procedure for acquiring transferrules from bilingual corpora through automatic align-merit of parse trees in the source and target languages.Developed specifications for a counmon, broad-coveragesyntactic dictionary of English (COMLEX).Continued participation i  a group to define commonmetrics for grammar evaluation.
Applied these metricsto the output of two different NYU parsers (the Proteusparser and the Tagged Text Parser) analyzing a WallStreet Journal corpus.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARP~icipate in Message Understanding Conference - 5.Apply procedures for semantic pattern acquisition fromcorpora to speed the acquisition and broaden the cover-age of the patterns for the "joint-venture" domain.Continue work on semantic pattern acquisition proce-dures.
Experiment with larger corpora, with alternativemeasures of word similarity, and with clustering proce-dures to identify semantic lasses.407
