EXPLOIT ING CONCEPT SPACES FOR TEXTRETRIEVALEllen M. Voorhees, Project LeaderS iemens  Corporate  Research,  Inc.P r inceton ,  N J  08540PROJECT GOALSThe Learning Systems Department at Siemens Corpo-rate Research is investigating the use of concept spacesto increase retrieval effectiveness.
Similar to a seman-tic net, a concept space is a construct hat defines thesemantic relationships among ideas.
The current focusof our research is to exploit the information in such astructure to ameliorate known shortcomings of statisti-cal retrieval methods while maintaining the statisticalmethods' robustness.
Our initial concept space is ex-tracted from WordNet, a manually-constructed l xicaldatabase developed at Princeton University.Our focus on statistical methods is a consequence of ourgoal to develop techniques that are applicable to match-ing texts in very large corpora.
In particular, we im-pose two constraints on our research to meet this goal.First, we want to keep human intervention i the index-ing and retrieval processes at a minimum, and so we usestrictly automatic procedures.
Second, since even auto-matic procedures need to be relatively efficient, and webelieve this efficiency requirement precludes the use ofdeep analyses of document content for the foreseeablefuture, we restrict ourselves to shallow (statistical) pro-cessing of the text and concept space.The specific problems we are addressing are the effectspolysemy and synonymy have on retrieval performance.Polysemy depresses precision by causing false matchesbetween texts, while synonymy depresses recall by caus-ing true conceptual matches to be missed.
We are inves-tigating ways to index the content of text by the con-cepts of the Concept space rather than the words thatappear in the text, and thus avoid both polysemy andsynonymy problems.
With this approach, additionalexpense is incurred only during indexing - -  efficientconcept-matching routines can be used for retrieval.RECENT RESULTSOur first experiments investigated the effectiveness of ex-panding a text's representation with words that are re-lated to original text words in WordNet.
The experimen-tal evidence indicates that in the absence of a methodto resolve word senses, expansion is almost always detri-mental.
For TREC-1, we were able to improve the per-formance of some queries using an expansion procedurethat added only synonyms (as opposed to words relatedby other lexical relations) and required at least two orig-inal text words agree on the synonym (as a rudimen-tary check on the sense).
However, this same proceduredegrades the performance of other queries; overall per-formance is roughly comparable to the better statisticalmethods that do no special processing for synonYms.Given the importance of sense resolution to workableexpansion schemes, and the belief that polysemy is animportant retrieval problem in its own right, we are cur-rently studying automatic sense resolution procedures.In one approach, we use the nouns that co-occur withina text and the IS-A links within WordNet to select Word-Net synonym sets as the senses for ambiguous nouns inthe text.
Retrieval performance degrades using this tech-nique for two main reasons: the information inherentin the generalization/specialization hierarchy induced bythe IS-A links is not sufficient o reliably select the cor-rect sense of a noun from the set of fine distinctions inWordNet; and short query statements provide little con-text for disambiguation.
In a separate approach, we areinvestigating the utility of classifiers that learn the con-texts of the different senses of a given ambiguous wordfrom training examples.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAROur research in the coming year will continue to focuson classifier-based sense resolution methods.
We hopeto improve the effectiveness of the classifiers by allowingthem to learn syntactic templates that are indicative ofa sense in addition to the more general context modelsthey already learn.
We must also integrate classifiersinto the indexing phase of a retrieval system.
Our in-tention is to annotate the synonym sets in the WordNethierarchy with sense vectors, vectors that summarize thecontexts in which members of the synonym set are likelyto appear, and to select a sense based on the text's sim-ilarities to the sense vectors.411
