Overview of theARPA Human Language Technology WorkshopMadeleine Bates, Chair, EditorBBN Systems & Technolog ies70 Fawcett  StreetCambr idge,  MA 021381.
PREVIOUS DARPA WORKSHOPSFor five years, 1988-1992, the Defense Advanced ProjectsAgency sponsored a series of meetings called the DARPASpeech and Natural Language Workshops.
These workshopsprovided a forum where researchers in speech and naturallanguage, particularly as relating to the DARPA programs inspoken and written language understanding, could exchangeinformation about recent research and technical progress.Participants included researchers funded under the DARPAprograms, other esearchers who voluntarily participated inthese programs or in related evaluations, government re-searchers and consumers of these research results, and in-vited attendees from inside and outside the US.Proceedings of these worksshops were published by MorganKaufmann.2.
THE 1993 WORKSHOP:EXPANDED SCOPEIn 1993, the "D" was dropped from DARPA, reflecting achange in the organizational purposes and goals.
Well be-fore this change, however, the committee responsible forthe annual workshop was directed to significantly broadenits focus, and the name of the meeting became The ARPAHuman Language Technology (HLT) Workshop.The I-ILT workshop rovides a forum where researchers canexchange information about very recent echnical progressin an informal, highly interactive setting.
The scope includesnot just speech recognition, speech understanding, text un-derstanding, and machine translation, but also all spokenand written language work (broadly interpreted to includeARPA's TIPSTER, MT, MUC, and TREC programs) withan emphasis on topics of mutual interest, such as statisticallanguage modeling.
This workshop no longer focuses onspoken language systems evaluation, as another workshopfills that need.The prime purpose of the newly constituted workshop wasto facilitate productive technical discussions among key re-searchers on topics relating to human language technologyand of interest o ARPA.
This expanded workshop, in par-ticular, was designed to facilitate cross-fertilization amongdiverse disciplines, and to introduce researchers tothe state-of-the-art in areas outside their own.
For this reason, thepapers presented in this proceedings are both more wide-reaching and more accessible to non-experts in the field thanhas previously been the case.The majority of the workshop articipants received fundingunder ARPA's Human Language program.
Other partici-pants included researchers not funded by ARPA who volun-tarily participate in these programs; government researchersand consumers of these research results; and, on a rotat-ing basis, selected visitors from both inside and outside theUnited States.
It is still the intention that the participantsform a tightly-coupled research community in which resultsand research breakthroughs are evaluated, isseminated, andexploited with very short latency.Aspects of this meeting included:technical presentations of both new research results andthe ongoing development of large software systems, of-ten months before this research is reported elsewhere;the presentation of summaries of standardized systemevaluations;discussion of the future direction of the various DARPAprograms in light of recent progress; andmuch discussion of ongoing work among individual re-searchers.The format of the meeting was to mix 12-15 minute tech-nical presentations (both reviewed and invited) in sessionsorganized around focused topics, with time for informal dis-cussion and interaction.
In most sessions, the chair presenteda 15 minute introduction i tended to provide a summary ofthe key points in each set of papers, and also a perspec-tive of the research context in which the work was done,for those not in the primary area addressed by the papers inthe session.
The written version of those introductions willserve the same functions in this proceedings.Participants selected by the program committee were invitedto subnfit abstracts in a variety of areas.
The committeereceived 131 abstracts (114 for regular presentations; 17for der~tonstrafions), 58 presentation and 13 demonstrationswere accepted.The final program sessions were: Spoken Language Sys-tems, Invited Overviews of ARPA Program Areas, Continu-ous Speech Recognition, Natural Language, Discourse, Ma-chine Translation, Demonstrations, Statistical Natural Lan-guage, Government Panel, Lexicon, Prosody, InformationRetrieval, and New Directions.Technical highlights included:?
Machine Translation session, chaired by Alex Waibel ofCMU.
This session featured invited tutorials by PeterBrown and Ed Hovy.?
A demonstration session (chaired by Hy Murveit of SRIand organized by Victor Abrrash of SRI) showcased re-cent work in a variety of areas, and demonstrations wereavailable almost continuously throughout the workshopfor "hands-on" experience.?
A lexicon session, chaired by Ralph Grishman (NYU).?
Invited overviews of each of the areas of interest oARPA in spoken and written language technology:MUC (Beth Sundheim), TREC (Donna Harmon), SLS(George Doddington), and Tipster (Tom Crystal).?
A government panel on Government Human LanguageTechnology Needs, Funding, In-House Research, andTechnology Transfer organized by Carol Van Ess-Dykema.
The panelists were Helen Gigley (NRL),Joseph Kielman (FBI), Susan Chipman (ONR), JesseFussell (DoD), and Y.T.
Chien (NSF).The workshop attracted 207 attendees, approximately 2/3from ARPA sites.
The remainder were government repre-sentatives (30 individuals from 10 different organizations),foreign guests (11 individuals, from 11 organizations), non-ARPA attendees from the USA (31 individuals from 27 or-ganizations) and young researchers (7 individuals, from 5schools).3.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis meeting involved the work of a great many people.
TheStanding Workshop Committee (whose membership rotatesslowly except for one government member) is responsiblefor the overall seres of workshops.
It was chaired this yearby Patti Price (SRI); other members included Mitch Marcus(U. Penn), Madeleine Bates (BBN), Carol Van Ess-Dykema(DoD), Cliff Weinstein (Lincoln Lab), and Ralph Grishrnan(NYU).
The standing committee, and Patti Price in particu-lar, provided invaluable direction for the workshop.The Program Committee, which is constituted each year byadding to the standing committee additional researchers se-lected for their expertise in specific areas, was chaired by me,and included (in addition to the standing committee mem-bers) Stephen Della Pietra, David Lewis, Kathy McKeown,Mary Ellen Okurowski, Stephanie Seneff, Beth Sundlieim,and Alex Waibel.
The program committee was responsiblefor reviewing abstracts to select papers and demonstrationsfor presentation, discussing various policy issues, and orga-nizing the overall program.Particular thanks are due to Hy Murveit and Victor Abrash,who took complete charge of the demonstration sessions andhandled the myriad of technical problems inherent in ar-ranging for a large number of live demos; to Alex Waibel,who organized the Machine Translation session (the key-stone session of the entire workshop) while commuting fromhis office in Germany to his office in the US, and to RalphGfishman, who organized the Lexicon session apparentlyeffortlessly (which is to say, with extreme competence).Carol Van Ess-Dykema, assisted by Mary Ellen Okurowski,planned and chaired the government panel.Denise Payne served as the workshop administrator, whichmeans everything from email archivist to registrar.
She han-dled all the interactions with the conference center, kepttrack of invitations, abstracts, and attendees.
She kept oneeye on the budget and one hand on the telephone.
She pre-pared the notebooks of preliminary papers that were givento attendees atthe workshop, and collected final versions ofthe papers for this proceedings.From his new position as Program Manager at ARPA,George Doddington provided overall direction and encour-agement to the workshop lanners.
His enthusiasm for hisnew role and his desire to continue the high technical stan-dards of previous workshops helped to make this workshop,which was the first in a new series, a resounding success.4
