SPOKEN-LANGUAGE RESEARCH AT CARNEGIE MELLONRaj Reddy, Principal InvestigatorSchool of Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213PROJECT GOALSThe goal of speech research at Carnegie Mellon continues tobe the development of spoken language systems that effec-tively intelFate speech processing into the human-computerinterface in a way that facilitates the use of computers in theperformance of practical tasks.
Research in spoken lan-guage is currently focussed in the following areas:?
Improved speech recognition technologies: Extendingthe useful vocabulary of SPHINX-II by use of better phoneticand linguistic models and better search techniques, provid-ing for rapid configuration for new tasks.?
Fluent human/machine interfaces: Developing tools thatallow users to easily communicate with computers by voiceand understanding the role of voice in the computer inter-face.?
Unders tand ing  spontaneous  spoken language:Developing flexible recognition and parsing strategies tocope with phenomena peculiar to the lexical and grammati-coal structure of spontaneous spoken language.
Investi-gate methods of integrating speech recognition andnatural anguage understanding.
Development ofautomatictraining procedures for these grammars.?
Acoustical and environmental  robustness: Developingprocedures to enable good recognition in office environ-ments with desktop microphones and a useful evel of rec-ognition in more severe nvironments.?
Rapid integration of speech technology: Developing anapproach that will enable application developers and endusers to incorporate speech recognition into their applica-tions quickly and easily, as well as the dynamic modifica-tion of grammars and vocabularies.RECENT RESULTS?
SPmNX-II has been extended with a multi-pass search algo-rithm that incorporates two passes of beam search and afinal A-star pass that can apply long-distance languagemodels as well as produce alternative hypotheses.?
Joint training of acoustic models and language models iscurrently being explored in the context of the Unified Sto-chastic Engine (USE).?
A framework for long-distance language modeling wasdeveloped, in collaboration with IBM researchers.
A pilotsystem using this model yielded significant reduction inperplexity over the trigram model.?
Developed improved recognition, grammar coverage andcontext handling that reduced SLS errors for the ATISBenchmark by 67%.
We also improved the robusmess anduser feedback in our live ATIS demo.?
Developed and evaluated two methods for more tightlyintegrating speech recognition and natural anguage under-standing, producing error reductions of 20% compared tothe loosely-coupled system.?
Added automatic detection capability for out-of-vocabularywords and phrases.
New words are now entered instantlyinto the phone dialer application given only their spelling.?
Acoustical pre-processing algorithms for environmentalrobustness were extended to the CSR domain and mademote efficient.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Use our existing language modeling framework to modellong-distance dependence on words and word combina-tions.
These new models will be allow the recognizer totake advantage ofimproved linguistic knowledge at the ear-liest possible stage.?
Implement confidence measures for large-vocabulary SLSsystems, for new-word etection and greater accuracy.?
Continue to explore issues associated with very largevocabulary (lO0,O00-worcO recognition systems.?
Continue to develop methods for automatically acquisitionof Natural Language information used by an SLS system.?
Improve user interaction in the ATIS system, includingclarification and mixed initiative dialogs, speech output andform-based displays.?
Begin to develop a new SLS application, such as a tele-phone-based form filling application.?
Provide grammar switching and instantaneous new wordaddition for the general SPmNX-II decoder.?
Develop and test a 100,000-word pronunciation lexiconthat will be available in the public domain.?
Continue to improve our cepstrum-based nvironmentalcompensation procedu~s.?
Demonstrate more robust microphone-array techniques.?
Extend our work on environmental robustness tolong-dis-tance telephone lines.?
Continue to enhance our spoken language interfaces, byintroducing speech response capabilities and facilities foruser customizing.
Continue to investigate the appropriateuse of speech in multi-modal interfaces.390
