Evaluating the Use of Prosodic Informationin Speech Recognition and UnderstandingMarl Ostendorf Patti PriceBoston University SRI InternationalBoston, MA 02215 Menlo Park, CA 94025PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project is to investigate he use of differ-ent levels of prosodic information in speech recognitionand understanding.
There are two thrusts in the currentwork: use of prosodic information in parsing and detec-tion/correction fdisfluencies.
The research involves de-tern'fining a representation f prosodic information suit-able for use in a speech understanding system, devel-oping reliable algorithms for detection of the prosodiccues in speech, investigating architectures for integrat-ing prosodic ues in a speech understanding system, andevaluating the potential performance improvements pos-sible through the use of prosodic information in a spo-ken language system (SLS).
This research is sponsoredjointly by DARPA and NSF, NSF grant no.
IRI-8905249,and in part by a DARPA SLS grant to SKI.RECENT RESULTS?
Evaluated the break index and prominence r cogni-tion algorithms on a larger corpus, with paragraphs(as opposed to sentences) ofradio announcer speech.?
Extended the prosody-parse scoring algorithm touse a more integrated probabilistic scoring criterionand to include prominence information, making useof tree-based recognition and prediction models.?
Collaborated with a multi-site group for develop-ment of a core, standard prosody transcriptionmethod: TOBI, (TOnes and Break Indices), andlabeled over 800 utterances from the ATIS cor-pus with prosodic break and prominence informa-tion.
Analyses of consistency between labelersshows good agreement for the break and prominencelabels on ATIS.?
Ported prosody-parse scoring algorithms to ATIS,which required: developing new features for theacoustic and prosody/syntax models and represent-ing new classes of breaks to represent hesitation;currently evaluating the algorithm for reranking theN-best sentence hypotheses in the MIT and SKISLS systems.
(This work was made possible by re-searchers at MIT and SRI who provided the parsesand recognition outputs needed for training andevaluating the prosody models.)?
Developed a new approach to duration modelingin speech recognition, involving context-conditionedparametric duration distributions and increasedweighting on duration.?
Developed tools for analysis of large number of re-pairs and other disfluencies; analyzed the prosodyof filled pauses in ATIS data and extended the workon disfluencies to data in the Switchboard corpus ofconversational speech.?
Developed methods for automatic detection andcorrection of repairs in ATIS corpus, based on in-tegrating information from text pattern-matching,syntactic and semantic parsing.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Evaluate the break index and prominence recogni-tion algorithms on spontaneous speech, specificallythe ATIS corpus, and further refine algorithms toimprove performance in this domain.?
Improve the parse scoring algorithm performancein the ATIS domain by exploring new syntactic fea-tures, and asses performance on SKI vs. MIT SLSsystems.?
Investigate alternative approaches to integratingprosody in speech understanding.?
Continue study of acoustic and grammatical cues torepairs and other spontaneous speech effects.?
Based on the results of the acoustic analyses, de-velop automatic detection algorithms for flaggingrepairs that are missed by the syntactic patternmatching algorithms and develop algorithms forclassifying detected repairs to aid in determining theamount of traceback in the repair.388
