L INGSTAT:  AN INTERACTIVE ,  MACHINE-A IDEDTRANSLAT ION SYSTEM*Jonathan Yamron and James BakerDragon Systems, Inc., 320 Nevada Street, Newton, MA 02160PROJECT GOALSThe goal of LINGSTAT is to produce an interactive ma-chine translation system designed to increase the produc-tivity of a user, with little knowledge of the source lan-guage, in translating or extracting information from for-eign language documents.
This system will make use ofstatistical information gathered from parallel and single-language corpora, and linguistic information at all levels(lexical, syntactic, and semantic).
Initial efforts havebeen focused on the translation of Japanese to English,but work has also begun on a Spanish version of the sys-tem.
As resources become available, particularly parallelcorpora, the Spanish system will be further developedand work will be extended to include other Europeanlanguages.RECENT RESULTSProductivity tests have been conducted on the rudimen-tary Spanish version of the workstation.
This system in-corporates a Spanish de-inflector, provides word for wordtranslation to English, and has fast access to an onlinedictionary.
On a scaled down version of the DARPA testof 7/92 (6 documents instead of 18, including 3 by handand 3 with the aid of the system), a fluent speaker ofItalian (a language very similar to Spanish) showed noproductivity gain.
At the other extreme, a user with noSpanish knowledge and no recent raining in any Euro-pean language was about 50% faster using the system'sonline tools than with a paper dictionary.There are currently two programs underway to improvethe translation system.
The first is an effort to ex-pand the Japanese and Spanish dictionaries, which re-quires not only adding words, but also glosses, pronun-ciations (for Japanese), and multi-word objects.
Partof this task involves updating the Japanese and Spanishword frequency statistics, which will improve the perfor-mance of the tokenizer in Japanese and the de-inflectorin both languages.
Part of speech information is alsobeing added, in anticipation of the use of grammaticaltools.
*This work was sponsored by the Defense Advanced Reseaa'cchProjects Agency under contract number J-FBI-91-239The second program is the development of a probabilisticgrammar to parse the source and provide grammaticalinformation to the user.
This will supplement or replacethe current rule-based finite-state parser currently im-plemented in the system.
In the current phase, Dragonhas chosen a lexicalized context-free grammar, which hasthe property that the probability of choosing aparticularproduction rule in the grammar is dependent on head-words associated with each non-terminal symbol.
Lexi-calization is a useful tool for resolving attachment ques-tions and in sense disambiguation.
This grammar will betrained using the inside-outside algorithm on Japaneseand Spanish newspaper articles.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARThe grammar will be used to provide more accurateglossing of the source by making use of co-occurrencestatistics among the phrase headwords.
This requiresdeveloping an English word list with frequency and partof speech information, as well as constructing an Englishinflector-deinflector.
These tools, along with an Englishgrammar, will enable us to construct candidate transla-tions of Japanese phrases and simple Spanish sentences.For Japanese sentences and more sophisticated Span-ish, Dragon plans to implement lexicalized tree-adjoininggrammars in both source and target.
Tree-adjoininggrammars provide a rich framework for handling the dif-ficult rearrangement of Japanese syntax into English.As in the case of context-free grammar, lexicalizationhelps keep the grammar small by resolving attachmentand disambiguation questions.
A translation can be con-structed by transferring a parse in the source grammarinto a parse in the (synchronized) target grammar.Each of the analysis methods may produce several can-didate translations ofphrases or sentences in the targetlanguage.
All of these candidates will then be rescoredusing a statistical language model in the target language,as well as translation and alignment probabilities withthe source text.
The maximum likelihood candidate willthen be chosen for display to the user, who may then askfor more information or alternate translations.393
