CSR CORPUS COLLECTIONDenise Danielson, Project LeaderJared Bernstein, Principal InvestigatorSRI InternationalMenlo Park, California 94025PROJECT GOALSThe objective of the CSR Corpus Development is to collectand deliver a large corpus of continuous speech data to sup-port DARPA research efforts in continuous speech recogni-tion (CSR).
SRI's current goal is the completion of Phase 2,Part 1 of the planned CSR Corpus.
This consists of 86,000sentences from 275 speakers, including 8000 spontaneoussentences from 40 joumatists.The Phase 2 Corpus collection task is a high volume dataproduction task.
SRI's major goal has been efficiency.Other goals include gathering data that is more representa-tive of the real world by minimizing controls on vocabu-lary, microphones,  background noise and speakerdisfluencies, while improving data quality controls.RECENT RESULTSSRI began work on the current phase of CSR in September,1992 and expects to complete delivery of this portion inJune, 1993.Data Production - -  As of 12 March 1993, SRI has col-lected the following portion of this CSR database:Subject ype Required CollectedNon-journalist long 25 22Non-journalist hort 210 125Journalist 40 17Subject Efficiency - -  SRI's first goal was to speed up sub-ject interaction with the data collection software.
Addi-tional memory was added to the data collection systems,and data collection software made much faster, so that nowthe pace of the data collection process is directly controlledby the subject and no longer limited by the software.
As aresult, the average data collection pace has increased from125 utts/hr to 200 utts/hr.
For a typical short-term non-jour-nalist subject collecting 190 read sentences, these changesand a faster paced orientation have reduced subject imefrom 120 minutes to 90 minutes.
The shorter time require-ment also makes it easier to attract and schedule subjects.Process Efficiency - -  SRI has also been concerned withreducing the labor required to process peech data.
A laborsavings was realized by removing monitors from the datacollection room.
The data collection monitor now spendsabout 25 minutes instructing and observing while subjectscollect heir first few utterances, and then leaves the room.Two other changes have significanly improved labor effi-ciency.
SRI has developed a new transcription tool that hasled to a 15% to 20% reduction in transcription time andimproved accuracy.
We have also automated most pre-archival and archival steps.Data  Qua l i ty  - -  SRI has incorporated NIST data qualitysoftware into its procedures.
Sample files are collected atthe start of each day on each data collection system.
Thesefiles are run through the wavmd program, which runs a sig-nal-to-noise (SNR) evaluation and other tests.
Additionalchecks are performed on all files as they are collected toensure that problems (e.g.
dead microphone) are caught.Labor Analysis - -  SRI is analyzing labor costs as we pro-ceed with the current project o enable us to predict costs inthe future, as well as to target specific tasks for efficiencyimprovements.
A first round of labor analysis in January ofthis year identified transcriptioa as one of the biggest laborcosts.
This has led to efforts to make the transcription taskeasier and more efficient.
SRI continues to work with NISTand the CCCC to clarify transcription guidelines andimplement changes recommended by CCCC.
An analysisof recent project labor indicates that 10-15% of SRI's CSRproject ime has been spent on tasks in support of commu-nication with NIST and various DARPA program commit-tees.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Collect he remainder of the CSR Corpus.?
Work with NIST and CCCC to define goals and con-straints for alternate microphone, s and environments.?
Work with NIST and the Data Quality Committee to fur-thex improve and automate quality tests of speech files.?
Work with NIST and the Data Quality Committee todefine documentation requirements.?
Refine the spontaneous speech collection paradigm.413
