A SPEECH-FIRST MODEL FOR REPAIR DETECTION ANDCORRECTIONChristine NakataniDivision of Applied SciencesHarvard UniversityCambridge MA 02138ABSTRACTInterpreting fttUy natural speech is an important goal for spokenlanguage understanding systems.
However, while corpus studieshave shown that about 10% of spontaneous tterances contain self-corrections, or REPAIRS, little is known about he extent to which cuesin the speech signal may facilitate repair processing.
We identifyseveral cues based on acoustic and prosodic analysis of repairs inthe DARPA Air Travel In.formation System database, and proposemethods for exploiting these cues to detect and correct repairs.1.
INTRODUCTIONDisfluencies inspontaneous speech pose serious problems forspoken language Systems.
First, a speaker may produce apartial word or FRAGMEtCr, a string of phonemes that doesnot form the complete word intended by the speaker.
Somefragments may coincidentally match words actually in thelexicon, as in (1); others will be identified with the acousticallyclosest lexicon item(s), as in (2).
1(1) What is the earliest fli- flight from Washington toAtlantaleaving on Wednesday September fourth?
(2) Actual string: What is the fare fro-- on American Airlinesfourteen forty threeRecognized string: With fare four American Airlinesfourteen forty threeEven if all words in a disfluent segment are correctly recog-nized, failure to detect the location of a disfluency may lead tointerpretation errors during subsequent processing, as in (3):(3) .
.
.
Delta leaving Boston seventeen twenty one arrivingFort Worth twenty two twenty one forty and flight num-ber.. .Here, 'twenty two twenty one forty' must somehow be inter-preted as a flight arrival time; the system ust choose on some21.40, 22.21, and basis among .
.
.
.
22:40'.IWe indicate the presence of a word fragment in examples by the dia-critic '-'.
Self-corrected portions of the utterance, or REI'ARANDA, appear inboldface.
Unless otherwise noted, all repair examples iathis paper are drawnfrom the corpus described inSection 4.
Recognizer output shown is from therecognition system described in \[1\] on the ATIS lune 1990 test.Julia Hirschberg2D-450, AT&T Bell  Laboratories600 Mounta in  AvenueMurray Hil l  NJ  07974-0636Although studies of large speech corpora have found thatapproximately 10% of spontaneous tterances contain disflu-encies involving self-correction, or REPArRS \[2, 3\], little isknown about how to integrate repair processing with real-time speech recognition and with incremental syntactic andsemantic analysis of partial utterances in spoken languagesystems.
In particular, the speech signal itself has been rel-atively unexplored as a source of processing cues that mayfacilitate the detection and correction of repairs.
In this paper,we present results from a pilot study examining the acous-tic and prosodic haracteristics of all repairs (146) occurringin 1,453 utterances from the DARPA Air Travel InformationSystem (ATIS) database.
Our results are interpreted withina new "speech-first" framework for investigating repairs, theREPAIR INTERVAL MODEL, which builds upon Labov 1966 \[4\]and Hindle 1983 \[2\].2.
PREVIOUS COMPUTATIONALAPPROACKESWhile self-correction has long been a topic ofpsychoiinguisticstudy, computational work in this area has been sparse.
Earlywork in computational linguistics included repairs as one typeof ill-formed input and proposed solutions based upon exten-sions to existing text parsing techniques such as augmentedtransition etworks (ATNs), network-based semantic gram-mars, case flame grammars, pattern matching and determin-istic parsing \[5, 6, 2, 7, 8\].
Recently, Shriberg et al 1992 andBear et al1992 \[3, 9\] have proposed atwo-stage method forprocessing repairs that integrates lexical, syntactic, seman-tic, and acoustic information, ha the first stage, lexical patternmatching rules are used to retrieve candidate r pair utterances.In the second stage, syntactic, semantic, and acoustic infor-mation is used to filter the true repairs from the false positives.By these methods, \[9\] report identifying 309 repairs in the 406utterances in their 10,718 utterance corpus which contained'nontrivial' repairs and incorrectly hypothesizing repairs in191 fluent utterances, which represents recall of 76% withprecision of 62%.
Of the 62% containing self-repairs, \[9\]report finding the appropriate correction for 57%.While Shriberg et al promote the important idea that au-tomatic repair handling requires integration of knowledgefrom multiple sources, we argue that such "text-first" pattern-329matching approaches suffer from several limitations.
First,the assumption that correct ext transcriptions will be avail-able from existing speech recognizers i problematic, sincecurrent systems rely primarily upon language models and lex-icons derived from fluent speech to decide among competingacoustic hypotheses.
These systems usually treat disfluenciesin trainimg and recognition as noise; moreover, they have noway of modeling word fragments, even though these occurin the majority of repairs.
Second, detection and correctionstrategies are defined in terms of ad hoc patterns; it is notclear how one repair type is related to another or how the setof existing patterns hould be augmented to improve perfor-mance.
Third, from a computational point of view, it seemspreferable that spoken language systems detect a repair asearly as possible, to permit early pruning of the hypothesisspace, rather than carrying along competing hypotheses, asin"text-first" approaches.
Fourth, utterances containing over-lapping repairs such as (4) (noted in \[2, p. 123\]) cannot behandled by simple surface structure manipulations.
(4) I think that it you get- it's more strict in Catholic schools.Finally, on a cognitive level, there is recent psycholinguisticevidence that humans detect repairs in the vicinity of theinterruption point, well before the end of the repair utterance\[10, 11, 12\].An exception to "text-first" approaches i Hindle 1983 \[2\].Hindle decouples repair detection from repair correction.
Hiscorrection strategies rely upon an inventory of three repairtypes that are defined in relation to independently formulatedlinguistic principles.
Importantly, Hindle allows non-surface-based transformations as correction strategies.
A related prop-erty is that the correction of a single repair may be achievedby sequential pplication of several correction rules.Hindle classifies repairs as 1) full sentence r starts, in which anentire utterance is re-initiated; 2) constituent repairs, in whichone syntactic onstituent is replaced by another; 2 and 3) sur-face level repairs, in which identical strings appear adjacentto each other.
Correction strategies for each repair type aredefined in terms of extensions to a deterministic parser.
Theapplication of a correction routine is triggered by an hypoth-esized acoustic/phonetic EDIT SIGNAL, "a markedly abruptcut-off of the speech signal" (Hindle 1983 \[2, p. 123\], cf.Labov 1966 \[4\]), which is assumed to mark the interruptionof fluent speech.Hindie's methods achieved a success rate of 97% on a tran-scribed corpus of 1,500 sentences inwhich the edit signal was2This is consistent with Levelt 1983's \[13\] observation that the materialto be replaced and the correcting material in a repair often share structuralproperties akin to those shared by coordinated constituents.orthographically represented.
This rate of success uggeststhat identification of the edit signal site is crucial for repaircorrection.3.
THE REPAIR INTERVAL MODELIn contrast to "text-first" approaches, we introduce an alterna-tive, "speech-first" model for repair detection/correction, theREPAIR INTERVAL MODEL (RIM).
RIM provides a frameworkfor testing the extent o which cues from the speech signalitself can contribute to the identification and correction ofrepair utterances.
RIM incorporates two main assumptionsof Hindle 1983 \[2\]: 1) correction strategies are linguisticallyrule-governed, and 2) linguistic cues must be available tosignal when a disfluency has occurred and to 'trigger' cor-rection strategies.
As Hindle \[2\] noted, if the processing ofdisfluencies were not rule-governed, it would be difficult toreconcile the infrequent intrusion of disfluencies on humanspeech comprehension, especially for language l arners, withtheir frequent rate of occurrence in spontaneous speech.
Weview Hindle's results as evidence supporting the first assump-tion.
Our study tests the second assumption by exploring theacoustic and prosodic features of repairs that might serve assome kind of edit signal for rule-governed correction strate-gies.
While text-first strategies rely upon 'triggers' of a lexicalnature, we will argue that our speech-first model is consistentwith psycholinguistic evidence concerning the human detec-tion of repairs, and is therefore cognitively plausible as wellas linguistically principled.RIM divides the repair event into three consecutive t mpo-ral intervals and identifies time points within those intervalswhich are computationally critical.
A full repair comprisesthree intervals, the REPARANDUM INTERVAL, the DISFLUENCYINTERVAL, and the REPAm INTERVAL.
Following Levelt \[13\],we identify the REPARANDUM as the lexical material which isto be repaired.
The end of the reparandum coincides with thetermination of the fluent portion of the utterance and corre-sponds to the locus of the edit signal.
We term this point theINTERRUPTION SITE (IS).
The DISFLUENCY INTERVAL extendsfrom the IS to the resumption of fluent speech, and may con-tain any combination of silence, pause fillers ('uh'), or CUEPHRASES ('Oops' or 'I mean'), which indicate the speaker'srecognition of his/her performance error.
RIM extends theedit signal hypothesis that repairs are phonetically signaledat the point of interruption to include acoustic-prosodic phe-nomena cross the disfluency interval.
The REPAIR INTERVALcorresponds tothe uttering of the correcting material, which isintended to 'replace' the reparandum.
It extends from the off-set of the disfluency interval to the resumption of non-repairspeech.
In (5), for example, the reparandum occurs from 1 to2, the dis fluency interval from 2 to 3, and the repair intervalfrom 3 to 4.
(5) Give me airlines 1 \[ flying to Sa- \] 2 \[ SILENCE uh330SILENCE \] 3 \[ flying to Boston \] 4 from San Francisconext summer that have business class.4.
ACOUSTIC-PROSODICCHARACTERIST ICS OF REPAIRSWe report results from a pilot study on the acoustic andprosodic orrelates of repair events as defined in the RIMframework.
Our corpus consisted of 1,453 utterances by 64speakers from the DARPA Airline Travel and InformationSystem (ATIS) database \[14, 15\].
The utterances were col-lected at Texas Instruments and at SRI and will be referred toas the"TI set" and "SRI set," respectively.
132 (9.1%) of theseutterances contained at least one repair, and 48 (75%) of the64 speakers produced at least one repair.
We defined repairsfor our study as the self-correction f one or more phonemes(up to and including sequences of words) in an utterance.Orthographic transcriptions of the utterances were preparedby DARPA contractors according to standardized conven-tions.
The utterances were labeled at Bell Laboratories forword boundaries and intonational prominences and phras-ing following Pierrehumbert's description of English into-nation \[16, 17\].
Disfluencies were categorized as REPAIR(self-correction f lexicai material), HESITATION ("unnatural"interruption of speech flow without any following correctionof lexical material), or OTHER DISFLUENCY.
For RIM analy-sis, each of the three repair intervals was labeled.
All speechanalysis was carried out using Entropics WAVES software \[18\].4.1.
Identifying the Reparandum IntervalFrom the point of view of repair detection and correction,acoustic-prosodic cues to the onset of the reparandum wouldclearly be useful in the choice of appropriate correction strat-egy.
However, perceptual experiments by Lickley and severalco-authors \[10, 11, 12\] show that humans do not  detect anoncoming disfluency as early as the onset of the reparandum.Subjects were  able to detect disfluencies in the vicinity of thedisfluency interval - -  and sometimes before the last word ofthe reparandum.
Reparanda ending in word fragments wereamong those few repairs ubjects detected at the interruptionsite (i.e.
the RIM IS), but only a small number of the teststimuli contained such fragments \[11\].
In our corpus, abouttwo-thirds of reparanda end in word fragments)Based on these xperimental results, the reparandum offset isthe earliest time point where we would expect to find evidenceof Labov's and Hindle's hypothesized it signal.
In RIM, thenotion of the edit signal is extended conceptually to includeany phenomenon which may contribute to the perception ofan "abrupt cut-off" of the speech signal - -  including phoneticcues such as coarticulation phenomena, word fragments, inter-3Shriberg et al found that 60.2% of repairs in their corpus containedfragments.Syllables Tokens (N=117)01234%44 37.6%60 51.3%11 9.4%1 0.9%1 0.8%Table 1: Length of Reparandum Offset Word Fragmentsruption glottalization, pause, and prosodic ues which occurfrom the reparandum offset through the disfluency interval.Our acoustic and prosodic analysis of the reparandum in=terval focuses on identifying acoustic-phonetic properties ofword fragments, as well as additional phonetic ues markingthe reparandum offset.To build a model of word fragmentation for eventual use infragment identification, we first analyzed the length and initialphoneme classes of fragment repairs.
Almost 90% of frag-ments in our corpus are one syllable or less in length (Table 1).Table 2 shows the distribution of initial phonemes for all frag-ments, for single syllable fragments, and for single consonantfragments.
From Table 2 we see that single consonant frag-ments occur six times more often as fricatives than as thenext most common phoneme class, stop consonants.
How-ever, fricatives and stops occur almost equally as the initialconsonant in single syllable fragments.
So (regardless of theunderlying distribution of lexical items in the corpus), we finda difference in the distribution of phonemic haracteristics offragments based on fragment length, which can be modeledin fragment identification.We also analyzed the broad word class of the speaker's in-tended word for each fragment, where the intended word wasrecoverable.
Table 3 shows that there is a clear tendency forfragmentation at the reparandum offset to occur on contentwords rather than function words.
Therefore, systems thatrely primarily on lexical, semantic or pragmatic processingto detect and correct repairs will be faced with the problemof reconstructing content words from very short fragments, aPhonemeClassstopvowelfricativenasal/glide/liquidh% of AllFragments(N=117)21%15%44%15%3%% of SingleSyllableFragments(N=60)28%18%25%22%7%% of SingleConsonantFragments(N=44)11%7%73%9%0%Table 2: Feature Class of Initial Phoneme in Fragments byFragment Length331Lexical Class Tokens %Content 61 52.1%Function 13 i 11.1%Unknown 43 \]36.8%Table 3: Lexical Class of Word Fragments at ReparandumOffset (N=117)task that even human transcribers find difficult.
4One acoustic ue marking the IS which Bear et al \[9\] notedis the presence of INTERRUPTION GLOTFALIZATION, irregularglottal pulses, at the reparandum offset.
This form of glottal-ization is acoustically distinct from laryngealization (creakyvoice), which often occurs at the end of prosodic phrases;glottal stops, which often precede vowel-initial words; andepenthetic glottalization.
In our corpus, 29.5% of reparandaoffsets are marked by interruption glottalization.
5 Althoughinterruption glottalization is usually associated with frag-ments, it is not the case that fragments are usually glottalized.In our database, 61.7% of fragments are not glottalized and16.3% of glottalized reparanda offsets are not fragments.Finally, sonorant endings of fragments in our corpus some-times exhibited coarticulatory effects of an unrealized subse-quent phoneme.
When these effects occur with a followingpause (see Section 4.2), they could be used to distinguish frag-ments from full phrase-final words - -  such as 'fli-' from "fly"in Example (1).To summarize, our corpus shows that most reparanda off-sets end in word fragments.
These fragments are usuallyintended (where that intention is recoverable) tobe contentwords, are almost always short (one syllable or less) andshow different distributions of initial phoneme class depend-ing on their length.
Also, fragments are sometimes glottal-ized and sometimes exhibit coarticulatory effects of missingsubsequent phonemes.
These properties of the reparandumoffset might be used in direct modeling of word fragmenta-tion in speech recognition systems, enabling repair detectionfor a majority of repairs using primarily acoustic-phoneticcues.
Besides noting the potential of utilizing distributionalregularities and other acoustic-phonetic cues in a speech-firstapproach to repair processing, we conclude that the difficultyof recovering intended words from generally short fragmentsmakes a text-first approach inapplicable for the majority classof fragment repairs.4.2.
Identifying the Disflueney IntervalIn the RIM model, the disfluency interval (DI) includes allcue phrases, filled pauses, and silence from the offset of the4Transcribers were unable to identify intended words for over one-thirdof the fragments in our corpus.5Shriberg et al report glottalization  24 out of 25 vowel-final fragments.reparandum to the onset of the repair.
While the literaturecontains anumber of hypotheses about his interval (cf.
\[19,3\]), our pilot study supports a new hypothesis associatingfragment repairs and the duration of pauses following the IS.Table 4 shows the average duration of Dis in repair utter-ances compared to the average length of utterance-internalsilent pauses for all fluent utterances in the ATIS TI set.
Al-though, over all, Dis in repair utterances are shorter thanutterance-internal p uses in fluent utterances, the differenceis only weakly significant (p<.05, tstat=l.98, df=1325).
If webreak down the repair utterances based on fragmentation, wefind that the DI duration for fragments i significantly shorterthan for nonfragments (p<.01, tstat=2.81, df=139).
The frag-ment DI duration is also significantly shorter than fluent pauseintervals (p<.001, tstat=3.39, df=1268), while there is no sig-nificant difference for nonfragment DIs and fluent utterances.So, while DIs in general appear to be distinct from fluentpauses, our data indicate that the duration of Dis in fragmentrepairs could be exploited to identify these cases as repairs aswell as to distinguish them from nonfragment repairs.
WhileShriberg et al claim that pauses can be used to distinguishfalse positives from true repairs for two of their patterns, theydo not investigate he use of pansal duration as a primary cuefor repair detection.4.3.
Identifying the RepairSeveral influential studies of acoustic-prosodic repair cueshave relied upon lexical, semantic, and pragmatic definitionsof repair types \[20, 13\].
Levelt & Cutler 1983 \[20\] claim thatrepairs of erroneous information (ERROR REPAIRS) are markedby increased intonational prominence on the correcting in-formation, while other kinds of repairs such as additions todescriptions (APPROPgtnTE~ESS gEPAmS) generally are not.We investigated whether the repair interval is marked by spe-cial intonational prominence relative to the reparandum forrepairs in our corpus.To obtain objective measures of relative prominence, we com-pared absolute f0 and energy in the sonorant center of the lastaccented lexical item in the reparandum with that of the firstaccented item in the repair interval.
6 We found a small butreliable increase in f0 from the end of the reparandum tothebeginning of the repair (mean=5.2 Hz, p<.001, tstat=3.16,df= 131).
There was also a small but reliable increase in ampli-tude across the DI (mean=+2 db, p <.001, tstat=4.83, df= 131).We analyzed the same phenomena across utterance-internalfluent pauses for the ATIS TI set and found no similarly re-liable changes in either f0 or intensity - -  perhaps becausethe variation in the fluent population was much greater thanthe observed changes for the repair population.
And when6We performed the same analysis for the last and first syllables in thereparandum and repair espectively; results did not substantially differ fromthose reported here for accented values.332Utterance Type Mean Std DevFluent pauses 513 msec 15 msecAll repairs 389 msec 57 mseca) Fragment repairs 252 msec 32 msecb) Nonfragment repairs 637 msec 143 msecN11861469452Table 4: Duration of Disfluency Intervals vs. Utterance-Internal Fluent Pauseswe compared the f0 and amplitude changes from reparandumto repair with those observed for fluent pauses, we found nosignificant differences between the two populations.So, while small but reliable differences in f0 and amplitudeexist between the reparandum offset and the repair onset, weconclude that these differences do not help to distinguish re-pairs from fluent speech.
Although it is not entirely straight-forward to compare our objective measures of intonationalprominence with Levelt and Cutler's perceptual findings, ourresults provide only weak support for theirs.
While we findsmall but significant changes in two correlates of intonationalprominence from the reparandum to the repair, the distribu-tions of change in f0 and energy for our data are unimodal;when we separate r pairs in our corpus into Levelt and Cutler'serror repairs and appropriateness repairs, statistical analysisdoes not support Levelt and Cutler's claim that only the formergroup is intonationally 'marked'.Previous tudies of disfluency have paid considerable atten-tion to the vicinity of the IS but little to the repair offset.
Yet,locating the repair offset (the end of the correcting material) iscrucial for the delimitation of segments over which correctionstrategies operate.
One simple hypothesis we tested is thatrepair interval offsets are intonationally marked by minor ormajor prosodic phrase boundaries.
We found that the repairoffset co-occurs with minor phrase boundaries for 49% of TIset repairs.
To see whether these boundaries were distinctfrom those in fluent speech, we compared the phrasing of re-pair utterances with phrasing predicted for the corresponding'correct' version of the utterance.
To predict phrasing, weused a procedure reported by Wang & Hirschberg 1992 \[21\]that uses statistical modeling techniques to predict phrasingfrom a large corpus of labeled ATIS speech; we used a predic-tion tree that achieves 88.4% accuracy on the ATIS TI corpus.For the TI set, we found that, for 40% of all repairs, an actualboundary occurs at the repair offset where one is predicted;and for 33% of all repairs, no actual boundary occurs wherenone is predicted.
For the remaining 27% of repairs for whichpredicted phrasing diverged from actual phrasing, for 10% aboundary occurred where none was predicted; for 17%, noboundary occurred when one was predicted.In addition to these difference observed at the repair off-set, we also found more general differences from predictedphrasing over the entire repair interval, which we hypothesizemay be partly understood as follows: Two strong predic-tors of prosodic phrasing in fluent speech are syntactic on-stituency \[22, 23, 24\], especially the relative inviolability ofnoun phrases \[21\], and the length of prosodic phrases \[23, 25\].On the one hand, we found occurrences ofphrase boundariesat repair offsets which occurred within larger NPs, as in (6),where it is precisely the noun modifier - -  not the entire nounphrase - -  which is corrected.
7(6) Show me all n-  round-trip I flights I from Pittsburgh I toAtlanta.We speculate that, by marking off the modifier intonationally,a speaker may signal that operations relating just this phraseto earlier portions of the utterance can achieve the propercorrection of the disfluency.
We also found cases of 'length-ened' intonational phrases in repair intervals, as illustrated inthe single-phrase r parandum in (7), where the correspondingfluent version of the reparandum is predicted to contain fourphrases.
(7) What airport is it I is located I what is the name of theairport located in San FranciscoAgain, we hypothesize that the role played by this unusuallylong phrase is the same as that of early phrase boundariesin NPs discussed above.
In both cases, the phrase boundarydelimits a meaningful unit for subsequent correction strate-gies.
For example, we might understand the multiple repairsin (7) as follows: First the speaker attempts a VP repair, withthe repair phrase delimited by a single prosodic phrase 'is lo-cated'.
Then the initially repaired utterance 'What airport islocated" is itself repaired, with the reparadum again delimitedby a single prosodic phrase, 'What is the name of the airportlocated in San Francisco'.While a larger corpus must be examined inorder to fully char-acterize the relationship between prosodic boundaries atrepairoffsets and those in fluent speech, we believe that the differ-ences we have observed are promising.
A general speech-firstcue such as intonational phrasing could prove useful bothfor lexical pattern matching strategies as well as syntactic7prosodic boundaries are indicated by '1'.333constituent-based strategies, by delimiting the region in whichthese correction strategies must seek the repairing material.5.
DISCUSSIONIn this paper, we propose a "speech-first" model, the RepairInterval Model, for studying repairs in spontaneous speech.This model divides the repair event into a reparandum inter-val, a di.sfluency interval, and a repair interval.
We presentempirical results from acoustic-phonetic and prosodic analy-sis of a corpus of spontaneous speech.
In this study, we foundthat most reparanda offsets ended in word fragments, usuallyof (intended) content words, and that these fragments tendedto be quite short and to exhibit particular acoustic-phoneticcharacteristics.
We found that the disfluency interval couldbe distinguished from intonational phrase boundaries in flu-ent speech in terms of duration of pause, and that fragmentand nonfragment repairs could also be distinguished from oneanother in terms of the duration of the disfluency interval.For our corpus, repair onsets could be distinguished fromreparandum offsets by small but reliable differences in f0 andamplitude, and repair intervals differed from fluent speechin their characteristic prosodic phrasing.
We are currentlyanalyzing a larger sample of the ATIS corpus to test our ini-tial results and to evaluate other possible predictors of repairphenomena.REFERENCES1.
Lee, C.-H., Rabiner, L. R., Pieraccini, R., and Wilpon, J.Acoustic modeling for large vocabulary speech recognition.Computer Speech and Language, 4:127-165, April 1990.2.
Hindle, D. Deterministic parsing of syntactic non-fluencies.
InProceedings ofthe 21 st Annual Meeting, pages 123-128, Cam-bridge MA, 1983.
Association for Computational Linguistics.3.
Shriberg, E., Bear, J., and Dowding, J.
Automatic detectionand correction of repairs in human-computer dialog.
In Pro-ceedings of the Speech andNatural Language Workshop, ages419-424, Harriman NY, 1992.
DARPA, Morgan Kaufmann.4.
Labov, W. On the grammaticality of everyday speech.
PaperPresented at the Linguistic Society of America Annual Meet-ing, 1966.5.
Weischedel, R. M. and Black, J.
Responding to potentiallyunparseable s ntences.
American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics, 6:97-109, 1980.6.
CarboneU, J. and Hayes, P. Recovery strategies of parsing ex-tragrammatical language.
American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics, 9(3-4):123-146, 1983.7.
Weischedel, R. M. and Sondheimer, N. K. Meta-rules as abasis for processing ill-formed input.
American Journal ofComputational Linguistics, 9(3-4): 161-177, 1983.8.
Fink, P. E. and Biermann, A. W. The correction of ill-formed in-put using history-based xpectation with applications tospeechunderstanding.
ComputationalLinguistics, 12(1): 13-36, 1986.9.
Bear, J., Dowding, J., and Shriberg, E. Integrating multi-ple knowledge sources for detection and correction of repairsin human-computer dialog.
In Proceedings of the 30th An-nualMeeting, pages 56-63, Newark DE, 1992.
Association forComputational Linguistics.10.
Lickley, R. J., Bard, E. G., and ShiUcock, R. C. Understandingdisfluent speech: Is there an editing signal?
In Proceedingsof the International Congress of Phonetic Sciences, pages 98-101, Aix-en-Provence, 1991.
ICPhS.11.
Lickley, R. J., Shillcock, R. C., and Bard, E. G. Processingdisfluent speech: How and when are disfluencies found?
InProceedings of the Second European Conference on SpeechCommunication a d Technology, Vol.
Ill, pages 1499-1502,Genova, September 1991.
Eurospeech-91.12.
Lickley, R. J. and Bard, E. G. Processing disfluent speech:Recognising disfluency before lexical access.
In Proceedingsof the International Conference on Spoken Language Process-ing, pages 935-938, Banff, October 1992.
ICSLP.13.
LeveR, W. Monitoring and serf-repair n speech.
Cognition,14:41-104, 1983.14.
HemphiU, C. T., Godfrey, J. J., and Doddington, G. R. Theatis spoken language systems pilot corpus.
In Proceedings ofthe Speech and Natural Language Workshop, ages 96-101,Hidden Valley PA, June 1990.
DARPA.15.
MADCOW.
Multi-site data collection for a spoken languagecorpus.
In Proceedings of the Speech and Natural LanguageWorkshop, ages 7-14, Harriman NY, February 1992.
DARPA,Morgan Kaufmann.16.
Pierrehumbert, J.
B.
The Phonology and Phonetics of EnglishIntonation.
PhD thesis, Massachusetts Institute of Technol-ogy, September 1980.
Distributed by the Indiana UniversityLinguistics Club.17.
Pierrehumbert, J.
B. and Beckman, M. E. Japanese Tone Struc-ture.
MIT Press, Cambridge MA, 1988.18.
Talkin, D. Looking at speech.
Speech Technology, 4:74--77,April-May 1989.19.
Blackmer, E. R. and Mitton, J .L.
Theories of monitoringand the timing of repairs in spontaneous speech.
Cognition,39:173-194, 1991.20.
LeveR, W. and Cutler, A. Prosodic marking in speech repair.Journal of Semantics, 2:205-217, 1983.21.
Wang, M. Q. and Hirschberg, J.
Automatic lassification ofintonational phrase boundaries.
Computer Speech and Lan-guage; 6:175-196, 1992.22. Cooper, W. E. and Sorenson, J. M. Fundamental frequencycontours at syntactic boundaries.
Journal of the AcousticalSociety of America, 62(3):683-692, September 1977.23.
Gee, J. P. and Grosjean, F. Performance structure: A psy-cholinguistic and linguistic apprasial.
Cognitive Psychology,15:411--458, 1983.24.
Selkirk, E.O.
Phonology and syntax: The relation betweensound and structure.
In Freyjeim, T., editor, Nordic ProsodyII: Proceedings of the Second Symposium on Prosody in theNordic language, pages 111-140, Trondheim, 1984.
TAPIR.25.
Bachenko, J. and Fitzpatrick, E. A computational grammar ofdiscourse-neutralprosodicphrasing in E lish.
ComputationalLinguistics, 16(3):155-170, 1990.334
