The SMART Information Retrieval ProjectC.
Buckley, G. Salton, J. AllanDepar tment  of Computer  ScienceCornel l  Univers i tyI thaca,  NY  14853PROJECT GOALSThe primary goal of the SMART information retrievalproject at CorneU University remains, as it has for thepast 30 years, investigating the effectiveness and effi-ciency of automatic methods of retrieval of text.
In re-cent years this has expanded to include retrieval of partsof documents in response to both user queries (passageretrieval) and parts of other documents (automatic hy-pertext links).
The emphasis of SMART has always beenon purely automatic text retrieval - -  starting from an ar-bitrary piece of natural anguage text from the user andmatching against automatically indexed documents - -and this continues.RECENT RESULTSUnder this rather broad goal, we've performed a numberof investigations this past year.
These include:* Local/global matching: Looking at the effect ofdetermining an overall global similarity betweenquery and document, and then requiring that somesmall local portion of the document (paragraphor sentence) focuses in on the query.
The overallperformance l vel of local/global matching for theTREC 1 workshop was quite good, though it ap-pears the local requirement only gains about 10%improvement over a pure global match.?
Phrases: Examining methods for both statisticalphrase selection and phrase weighting.
For TREC 1,SMART's statistical phrases gained 5 to 9% over oursingle term methods.?
Learned Features of Terms: In cooperation withNorbert Fuhr, we've been looking at learning oodterm weights based upon characteristics of a termrather ttlan history of how that term itself behaves.This enables us to come up with good term weightsbased upon much less information than conventionalweight learning techniques.
This did very well forTREC 1: tied at the top of the automatic ad-hoccategory with the local/global approach above.
* Efficiency and Effectiveness Trade-offs: A numberof tradeoffs were also examined at TREC 1.
Majorconclusions were- Retrieval effectiveness can be very reasonablytraded for retrieval efficiency by truncating theretrieval appropriately.- Massive stemming of words to their root formshas efficiency benefits and costs, but offers nosignificant effectiveness gains.- Document indexing can be sped up signifi-cantly, at a large cost in disk space.Evaluation: Examining evaluation measures uit-able for TREC.
We supplied the TREC 1 evaluationroutines, and have designed several other measuresthat may be used for TREC 2.Automatic Hypertext: Local/global matching wasused to automatically construct hypertext links be-tween articles of a 29 volume encyclopedia.Passage Retrieval: Local/global matching was usedagain to retrieve appropriate scopes of encyclopediaarticles in response to a query.SMART System: A new publicly-available r leaseof SMART (for research purposes only) was finishedin June.
This release provides upport for multi-gigabyte databases.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARWe'll be continuing with most of the investigations abovein the coming year.
We'll use automatic learning tech-niques to help combine local and global similarities, andto help weight phrases.
Local/global matching will beused heavily in the TREC routing environment toregainprecision after query expansion techniques.
Passage re-trieval and automatic document linkage will be extendedto automatically form a coherent summary reading pat-tern for a topic.
The SMART system itself will be re-vamped to enable very large distributed atabases to besearched effectively and efficiently.392
