ROBUST TEXT PROCESSING AND INFORMATIONRETRIEVALTomek Strzalkowski, Principal InvestigatorDepar tment  of  Computer  ScienceNew York Univers i tyNew York, New York, 10003PROJECT GOALSThe general objective of this research as been the enhance-ment of traditional key-word based statistical methods of doc-ument retrieval with advanced natural anguage processingtechniques.
In the work to date the focus has been on obtifin-ing a better representation f document contents by extractingrepresentative phrases from syntactically preprocessed text.In addition, statistical clustering methods have been devel-oped that generate doxn;dn-specific term correlations whichcan be used to obtain better search queries via expansion.RECENT RESULTSA prototype t xt retrieval system hits been developed inwhicha robust natural language processing unodule is integrated witha traditional statistical engine (NIST's PRISE).
Natural an-guage processing is used to (1) preprocess the documents inorder to extract contents-carrying tenns, (2) discover inter-term dependencies and build a conceptual hierarchy specificto the &ltabase domain, and (3) process user's natural an-guage requests into effective search queries.
The statisticalengine builds inverted index files from pre-processed docu-ments, and then searches and ranks the documents inresponseto user queries.
The fe;Lsibility of this approach its beendemonstrated in various experiments with 'standard' IR col-lections uch as CACM-3204 and Cranfield, as well as in thelarge-scale evaluation with TIPSTER database.The centerpiece of the natural anguage processing moduleis the TTP parser, a fast and robust syntactic analyzer whichproduces 'regularized' parse structures out of running text.The parser, presently the fastest of this type, is designed toproduce full analyses, but is capable of generating ,approx-imate 'best-fit' structures if under a time pressure or whenfaced with unexpected input.We participated in the first Text Retrieval Conference (TREC-1), during which the total of 500 MBytes of Wall Street Jour-nal articles have been parsed.
An enhanced version of 'ITPparser has been developed for this purpose with the averagespeed ranging from 0.3 to 0.5 seconds per sentence.
We alsodeveloped and improved the morphological word stemmer,syntactic dependencies xtractor, and tested sever;d clusteringformulax.
A close co-operation with BBN h~L~ produced a bet-ter part-of-speech tagger which is an essential pre-processorbefore parsing.We also took part in the continuing parser/gr;unmar evaluationworkshop.
In an informal test runs with 100 sentence s:unpleof WSJ unaterial, "FrP has conne suprisingly strong ~unong'regular' parsers which are hundreds times slower and farless robust.
During the latest meeting the focus of evaluationeffort has shifted toward "deeper' epresentations, includingoperator-argument structures which is the sUmdard form ofoutput from "FI'P.
During last year T IP  licenses have beenissued to several sites for research purposes.In another effort, in co-operation with the Canadian Instituteof Robotics and Intelligent Systems (IRIS), a number of qual-itative methods for predicting semantic orrectness of wordassociations are being tested.
When finished, these resultswill be used to further improve the accuracy of documentrepresentation with compound terms.Research on reversible grammars continued last year withsome more important results including a formal evaluationsystem for generation algorithms, and a generalized notion ofguides for controling the order of evaluation.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARThe major effort in the conning months is the participationin TREC-2 evaluation.
For this purpose we.aquired a newversion of PRISE system, which is currently being adaptedto work with language processing module.
New nnethods ofdocument ranking are also considered, including local scoresfor most relevant fragments within a document.
New clus-tering methods are tested for generating term similarities, itswell as more effective filters to subcategorize similarities intosennantic lasses.408
