A REAL-T IME SPOKEN-LANGUAGE SYSTEMFOR INTERACTIVE  PROBLEM SOLVINGPatti Price and Robert C. MooreSRI InternationalMenlo Park, CA 940251.
PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project, to develop a spoken languageinterface to the Official Airline Guide (OAG) database,has been developed along two overlapping research anddevelopment lines: one focussed on an SLS kernel fordatabase query, and the other on the interactive system.2.
RECENT RESULTSSRI has developed a spoken language system to re-trieve air travel planning information.
Progress can bemeasured by comparing DARPA benchmark results inFebruary 1992 and November 1992.
Between February1992 and November 1992, for all utterances tested, SRJ'sword error rate in the ATIS speech recognition test im-proved from 11.0% to 9.1%.
Weighted utterance rrorimproved from 31.1% to 23.6% in the natural-languageunderstanding test, and from 45.4% to 33.2% in thespoken-language understanding test.
Other recent re-sults include:?
Ported ATIS system to new, 46-city database; coor-dinated with internally funded effort to port to theonline OAG.?
Improved speech understanding by modeling spon-taneous peech phenomena, including filled pausesand verbal repairs.
The study included developmentof method for labeling and classifying repairs andtools for their analysis.?
Developed algorithms for tracking discourse struc-ture that correctly determine discourse context withgreater than 90% accuracy on the ATIS training cor-pus.?
Improved GEMINI system' s finguistic coverage ofthe ATIS task to 93% syntactic overage and 86%semantic coverage in a fair test on the evaluableutterances in the November 1992 ATIS benchmarktest set.?
Integrated GEMINI system into overall ATIS sys-tem, and used it for the benchmark tests in con-junction with the Template Matcher.
* Performed pilot experiments on the use of naturallanguage constraints to improve speech recognition;initial evidence showed an encouraging 22% reduc-tion in word error rate.?
Analyzed human-machine problem solving usingSRI's ATIS system.
Analyzed user satisfaction andsystem performance as a function of system errorsand user experience.?
Collected ATIS training and test data (speech, tran-scriptions, and logfiles) using SRI ATIS system, in-cluding about a thousand utterances using the newdatabase.?
Improved user interface ofSRI ATIS system, includ-ing better paraphrasing of system's understanding,easier to read displays, and improved system errormessages.?
Produced one journal publication, sixteen confer-ence talks and proceedings papers, and many in-vited talks; provided support and training for fourgraduate students.3.
PLANSComplete integration of GEMINI system into SRIATIS, including tighter integration with TemplateMatcher.Explore tighter integration of speech and NL pro-eessing for better overall SLS performance, perhapsvia lattices.Improve system robustness, portability and scala-bility.Develop complete telephone-based ATIS system.414
