SESSION 2: INVITED OVERVIEWSMadeleine BatesBBN Systems & Technolog ies70 Fawcett  StreetCambr idge,  MA 02138By adopting the name Human Language Technology for oneof its flagship programs, ARPA intended to included every-thing that is involved in understanding and/or generatingnatural human language.
In the Information Age, more andmore resources are being devoted to collecting, retrieving,and using information (text and speech) in digital form.
Thetime is ripe to multiply the power of human-machine prob-lem solving systems by automating ways to cope with theinformation explosion we are all experiencing.The scope of this workshop, expanded from a previous con-centration on spoken language systems to include all spokenand written language work at ARPA, meant hat many ofthe attendees were coming into contact for the first timewith researchers from related but different disciplines.
Sev-eral invited overview presentations helped to set the contextfor what was to come later in the workshop.Beth Sundheim of the Naval Command, Control & OceanSurveillance Center described the series of four MUCs (Mes-sage Understanding Conferences) that have taken place since1987.
These conferences, each involving a highly structuredevaluation of message processing systems, have served toquantify the state of the art in this field, and to provide aforum for studying and modifying the evaluation methodol-ogy.
Participation i the MUCs has risen from 6 sites to 17,demonstrating increased interest in message processing as atask, and increased willingness to evaluate systems using acommon task for which training data is available.Donna Harman of the National Institute of Science and Tech-nology (N/ST) presented the background leading up to thefirst Text REtrieval Conference (TREC-1), and the resultsof that conference.
The TREC participants were eager totest a variety of retrieval techniques in a common, challeng-ing evaluation.
Approaches ranging from pattern matchingto term weighting to natural anguage processing competedin what was probably the best modern information retrievaltest, and certainly the largest.
Papers by several of the TRECparticipants appear in tiffs proceedings (particularly in Ses-sion 12, Information Retrieval).Thomas Crystal from ARPA presented an overview of theTIPSTER program, including both the message detectionand data extraction tasks.
By "detection" is meant wo vari-ants of information retrieval: retrospective retrieval and rout-.ing.
The detection problem is to process queries in the formof user-need statements and finding messages that meet heneeds (e.g, are on a particular topic) from among a hugeset of messages, ome of which are similar but not on thedesired topic, and some of which are completely irrelevant.By "extraction" is meant extracting specific types of infor-mation from messages that are likely to be relevant o theparticular topic.
Extraction systems typically apply text un-derstanding techniques to process the text, and then producedatabase fill from the results of that understanding.Part of the challenge of the TIPSTER program has been toprovide a harder problem than has been worked on before,one that can be solved only by applying very advanced tech-nology; to this end, TIPSTER detection and extraction workhas been pursued in both English and Japanese.
The currentTIPSTER contractors' work is represented throughout thisproceedings.
Because Tom Crystal will be leaving ARPAshortly, questions about this program should be directed toGeorge Doddington.George Doddington of ARPA provided an overview of theSpoken Language Systems (SLS) program, which is alsowell-represented in this proceedings, particularly in Sessions1 and 3.
The SLS progrmn is concerned with all aspects ofhuman-machine communication by voice, and has been us-ing ATIS (Air Travel Information System) as a common do-main for development and evalulation.
The paper by DavidPallett gives a summary of the most recent benchmark eval-uations in this program.Inquires about he SLS program or any other aspect of theARPA HLT program should be addressed to:Dr. George DoddingtonARPA / SISTO Room 7443701 N. Fairfax DriveArlington, VA 22303-1714gdoddington@ darpa.mil703-696-225955
