Natural  Language ResearchPIs: Aravind Joshi, Mitch Marcus, Mark Steedman, and Bonnie WebberDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104email: joshi@cis.upenn.eduOBJECTIVEThe main objective is basic research and system devel-opment leading to (1) characterization of informationcarried by (a) syntax, semantics, and discourse struc-ture, (h) their relation to information carried by into-nation, and (c) development of methods for using thisinformation for generation and understanding; (2) devel-opment of architectures for integration of utterance plan-ning with lexical, syntactic and intonational choice; (3)development of incremental strategies for using syntac-tic, semantic, and pragmatic knowledge in understand-ing and generating language.RECENT ACCOMPL ISHMENTS?
Developed a new weakly supervised learning algo-rithm that can bracket text using a simple distri-butional error-correcting technique, which performsas well as recent applications of the I-O algorithmwhile using an order of magnitude l ss training data.A similar technique has been applied successfully tothe problem of prepositional phrase attachment.?
Developed techniques that combine WordNet andcorpus-based lexical statistics acquired from thePenn Treebank.
These techniques are being appliedto the resolution of syntactic ambiguity.?
The Penn Treebank project has released the resultsof its first three year phase as a CDROM throughthe Linguistic Data Consortium, consisting of 4.5million words of part-of-speech tagged text and 3million words of skeletally parsed text, including aparsed version of the Brown corpus.?
A categorial grammar based theory of intonationstructure and its discourse meaning has been devel-oped and implemented in a database query systemwhich takes as input an orthographic representationof spoken questions including intonational annota-tions, and yields as output a synthesized spoken re-sponse as a speech wave bearing an intonation con-tour that is appropriate to the context establishedby the question.Developed an environment, Design World, for sim-ulating interactive task-oriented ialogue betweentwo agents, that allows us to explore a number ofkey issues in inter-agent coordination.Investigated the way in which dialogue processingis cued by patterns of spoken language in task-oriented interactions between multiple agents.
Re-sults show that the redundancy that makes commu-nication more robust is typically marked by prosodicdestressing or broad focus.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Explore statistical morphology induction, lexi-cal disambiguation, and language modeling withstochastic dependency grammars.?
Extend the use of WordNet and lexical statistics tothe resolution of a broader set of syntactic ambigui-ties, and to apply these techniques to the construc-tion of stochastic language models.?
Contribute to a model of limited processing for dis-course, using corpora collected by the LinguisticData Consortium as the basis for a corpus-basedanalysis of bottom-up cues to discourse structure,such as variation in the forms of referring expres-sions, and prosodic marking by topline and baselinevariation.?
Extend the part-of-speech disambiguation strategiesto the disambiguation f lexical tree assignments owords in a lexicalized tree-adjoining grammar.?
Develop a minimal-response part-of-speech taggerfor conversational German without the use of on-line dictionaries and with minimal human resources.?
Investigate the acquisition of lexical informationabout novel verbs by combining information aboutsyntactic ontexts with information about semanticrelationships acquired using WordNet.?
Develop the 'strategic' or discourse-planning com-ponent of the spoken reply system.419
