SESSION 9: GOVERNMENT PANELCarol J.
Van Ess-Dykema, ChairU.S.
Department of DefenseFort Meade, Maryland1.
ABSTRACTThe purpose of the Government Panel session is to inform theresearch community about Human Language Technology researchsponsored by the individual Government agencies that he panel-ists represent.
The researchers gain a better understanding of thepotential market beyond ARPA, for their research skills and prod-uct.
Government agencies who may need what he researchers canoffer benefit when the informed researchers contact the agencies.In the climate of declining Government funding for the DefenseDepartment, the Session Chair noted that the contracts will befewer and go to the contractors who are most knowledgable aboutthe research that is going on Government-wide and to those whoare knowledgeable about how their skills and products can meetGovernment user needs.
The Government Panel session wasmoved closer to the middle of the agenda this year to facilitatecontinued iscussion among the panelists and other Governmentrepresentatives present, with the research community, before theWorkshop ended.2.
PANEL  STATEMENTSDr.
Helen Gigley, Head of the Human-Computer Interac-tion Laboratory at the Naval Research Laboratory, Wash-ington, D.C., descr ibed Government-wide HumanLanguage Technology needs and the role of researchers inmeeting them.
She specifically addressed GovernmentHuman Language Technology in terms of business uses andneeds, military uses, and education/training eeds.
Shepointed out that introducing technology does not necessar-ily increase ffectiveness, arguing that we need to considerthe impact of adopting technology before rather than after itis put in place.
She cited the military need of real time andaccurate speech processing performance and the lack ofmilitary commanders' trust of technology that might con-tain or produce rrors.
Lastly, she argued that researchersneed to consider their contribution ot only as a basic sci-entific result but as a result within society having social andmoral implications.Dr.
Joseph Kielman, Chief Scientist at the Federal Bureauof Investigation (FBI), Washington, D.C., indicated that inthe past the FBI had focussed significant resources on theintercept of spoken language and written text, with the firstpriority being to increase the efficiency or effectiveness ofcollection and distribution of data.
He reported, however,that the situation was changing, identifying the followingHuman Language Technology capabilities to be of currentinterest to the FBI: 1) speech detection, 2) speaker and lan-guage recognition, 3) speech understanding, 4) text under-standing and 5) machine translation.
He reported that thesetechnologies would be used to process language data in thedomains of counter intelligence, terrorism and white collarcrime, by FBI's personnel at headquarters, four regionaldata centers, 56 field offices, 400 resident agencies, perma-nent monitoring plants and temporary lookouts.Dr.
Susan Chipman, a Program Manager at the Office ofNaval Research (ONR) in Arlington, Virginia, describedthe Cognitive Science Program research sponsored byONR.
She defined the ONR mission as one of improvingnaval training for its personnel.
Two clusters of language-related research currently underway include tutorial dis-course and improving the readability of instructional textsand documentation.
She attributed the interest in emulatingthe effectiveness of human tutors with artificially intelli-gent computerized instructional systems, to the reportedeffectiveness of one-on-one tutorial instruction by humantutors.
The need to improve text readability stems from thefact that the military services and their contractors produceenormous amounts of text, system documentation a dtraining materials for the personnel who will operate andmaintain those systems, and which must be readable andcomprehensible by ONR personnel.Dr.
Jesse Fussell, Chief of the Communications SciencesDivision, at the Department ofDefense, Fort Meade, Mary-land, identified both technical and nontechnical problemsin technology transfer as well as making recommendationsto the research community about how to stimulate the tech-nology transfer process.
He believes that insufficient studyof the process of converting an algorithm from one domain,that is supported by a well defined and documented corpus,to a different operational domain, which may have little orno pre-marked training or testing data, is a technical prob-lem that researchers still need to overcome.
Nontechnicalproblems he believes till need to be overcome to achievetechnology transfer include the researcher's lack of under-285standing of the customer's needs and operating procedures.He challenged the researchers to broaden their researchefforts by producing prototype systems for extended evalu-ation in an operational setting.Dr.
Y. T. Chien, Director of the Information, Robotics andIntelligent Systems Division, at the National Science Foun-dation (NSF), Washington, D.C., defined NSF's mission asthat of maintaining the health of the U.S. science and tech-nology base.
He contrasted NSF with ARPA, saying thatNSF supports more and smaller projects, resulting in NSFbeing more broad-based than ARPA.
He discussed the Clin-ton administration's technology policies, particularly thecreation of a national information infrastructure which henoted will create societal needs in knowledge intensiveactivities.
He encouraged researchers to add value to thisnational information infrastructure.
He also encouragedthem to act like researchers in the larger sciences and todefine an aggressive r search agenda for Human LanguageTechnology.ence at NSF, there were many occasions when researchersdeclined to participate in an intemational exchange becausethey did not want to take a year off from their presentendeavors.The discussion period ended with a researcher's observationthat the research community did not have access to realproblems, and thus he called for better communicationbetween researchers and users.
Another researcherresponded by citing the "dual use" principle advocated bythe Clinton administration, asa way for researchers tolowerthe cost of technology transfer and to open the door for bet-ter researcher - user communication.3.
AUDIENCE REACTIONSThe first question was if any of the panelists knew whetherthe Clinton administration planned to invest as muchmoney in advanced technologies as has been invested bylarge companies in the past.
Jess Fussell responded thatonly 7% of DoD's research and development budget wasfor research, in contrast to 93% for development.
He said itwas necessary for researchers toconvince the developersthat research is worthwhile.
Joe Kielman stated that theFBI's budget had little research and development moneybut that he felt that by cooperation and collaboration amongGovernment agencies, a worthwhile Government researcheffort could be continued.
A Government representative inthe audience from the National Institute of Standards andTechnology (NIST) stated that the Department of Com-merce may receive funding for high risk-high payoff"opportunistic" research.One of the foreign visitors responded by stating shebelieved it was a government's responsibility to markettechnological research results.
A discussion then ensuedregarding the cost of deploying technology in the form of aproduct in the workplace.
One researcher stated that tech-nology could be sold more successfully to the Governmentif it were presented in the form of a visionary idea.
Anotherresearcher defined the customer as the person that can con-vince someone to take a risk and can provide the research-ers access to real problems.
In response to this lattercomment, Joe Kielman responded that management is oftenloathe to take a risk without seeing a demonstration capa-bility first.The discussion then turned to an inquiry about collabora-tion between U.S. and foreign researchers in performingHuman Language Technology research with a pedagogicalemphasis.
Y.T.
Chien responded that based on his experi-286
