HIGH PERFORMANCE SPEECH RECOGNITIONUSING CONSISTENCY MODELINGVassUios DigalakisHy MurveitMitch WeintraubSRI InternationalSpeech Research and Technology ProgramMenlo Park, CA, 94025PROJECT GOALSThe primary goal of this project is to develop acoustic rood-cling techniques that advance the state-of-the-art in speechrecognition, focusing on those techniques that relax the hid-den Markov model's improper independence assumptions.Such techniques should both improve robustness tosystem-atic variations uch as microphone, channel, and speaker,by conditioning state's acoustic output distributions onlong-term easurements, a  well as improve general acous-tic calibration by removing improper short-term (e.g.
frameto frame) independence assumptions.In order to perform this work certain infraslructure needs tobe developed.
This includes the development of a state-of-the-art baseline recognition system for the developmenttask (ARPA's Wall-Street Journal Task); the developmentof search techniques that allow experiments with computa-tionally expensive techniques to have reasonable turn-around times; and the development of modular softwarethat enables rapid prototyping of new algorithms.RECENT RESULTS?
We have built a software library that implements thecomponents ofan HMM recognition system dealingwith the observation distributions.
The functionalinterface is designed to enable fast integration of newacoustic modeling techniques?
We introduced a new search strategy, calledProgressive Search, that constrains the search space ofcomputationally expensive systems using simpler andfaster systems in an iterative fashion.
Using the wordgraphs created uring the initial recognition pass asgrammars in subsequent recognition passes, we havebeen able to reduce recognition time of systems thatuse more complex acoustic models and higher orderlanguage models by more than an order of magnitude.?
We developed a less-traditional, continuous outputdistribution system where different allophones of thesame phone share the same sets of Gaussians, butdifferent Gaussians are used for different phones.
Ourphonetically-fled mixture system achieved a 16%reduction in error rate over a typical tied mixturesystem.?
We found that the different pronunciation dictionariesand the corresponding phone sets that the various itesused in the last CSR evaluations can account fordifferences inperformance in the order of 10 - 15%.?
We developed new algorithms for local consistency bymodeling the correlation between spectral features atneighboring time frames.
This acoustic orrelation isused to improve the accuracy of the acoustic model byconditioning the state output probabilities on theprevious frame's observations.?
We have achieved a 31% reduction in error rate overour November evaluation system on the 5K, nonverbalized punctuation development set.
Theimprovement is the combined effect of thephonetically-fled mixtures, the improvedpronunciation dictionaries and replacement of RASTAfiltering with cepstral-mean removal on a sentencebasis.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Continue xploring trade-offs in parameter tying forcontinuous distribution acoustic models.
We willsample other points beyond fled-mixture, phonetically-tied mixture, and untied Ganssian-mixture systems.?
Explore techniques for modeling the globalconsistencies of speaker and channel effects across thespeech acoustic models.?
Continue to develop search techniques that both allowus to perform experiments u ing computationallyburdensome t chniques, as well as those that allow usto implement these systems as real-timedemonstrations.415
