Applying Statistical Methods to Machine TranslationPeter E Brown, Principal h~vestigatorIBM / T.J. Watson Research CenterP.O.
Box 704Yorktown Heights, NY 10598PROJECT GOALSThe goal of our project is to demonstrate he effectiveness ofstatistical techniques in machine translation by improving thestale of the art in large-vocabulary French-to-English transla-tion.A common paradigm in machine translation isanalysis, trans-fer, and synthesis.
In French-to-English translation, for ex-ample, a French sentence is analyzed into an intermediatestructure in which various ambiguities present in the surfaceform have been resolved.
This structure is then transferredto a similar English structure.
Finally, an English sentence issynthesized from the intermediate English structure.
Analy-sis, transfer, and synthesis each require considerable linguisticinsight for their successful dispatch.The approach taken in this project is to incorporate modelsof statistical transfer into the analysis-transfer-synthesis para-digm.
This will be done by constructing deterministic, invert-ible transformations of the surface forms in the bilingual datawhich improve the locality of the transfer process and whichreduce its variety.
An example of the former is part-of-speechlabeling, which is best performed by an examination of theglobal properties of the sentence and simplifies transfer bydistinguishing, for example, between 'le' the article, and 'le'the direct object.
An example of the latter is morphologicalanalysis which exposes the fraternity of different forms ofthe same root and obviates the discovery of separate statisticsrelating these different forms in the two languages.RECENT RESULTSDeveloped Translator's Workstation.In the spring of 1992, we wrote TransMan, a post-editor'sworkstation, which permits ahuman translator to rapidly edittranslations produced automatically b  a machine.
TransManallows cutting and pasting of sections of machine translations,and rapid access to an on-line dictionary.
In a July of 1992DARPA evaluation, TransMan was used by human subjectsto translate 35 percent more rapidly than they could translatewithout machine assistance.Speech Recognition in Machine Translation.It has been observed that humans can translate nearly fourtimes as quickly with little loss in accuracy simply by dictat-ing, as opposed to typing, their translations.
We consideredthe integration of speech recognition into a translator's work-station.
In particular, we showed how to combine statisticalmodels of speech, language, and translation i to a single sys-tem that decodes a sequence of words in a target languagefrom a sequence of words in a source language together withan utterance of the target language sequence.
We obtainedresults which demonstrate hat the difficulty of the speechrecognition task can be reduced by making use of informationcontained in the source text being translated.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARIn the July evaluation of our system we found a number ofsources of errors.
Some of the major problems include limitedvocabularies, translation of numbers, translation of names,morphological errors, errors in syntactic transformations, andlimitations in our trigram language model.We plan to construct name and number detectors and transla-tors.
These module will detect names and numbers in Frenchtext, and replace them by name and number markers.
Themarkers will then be translated statistically into English nameand number markers.
The English markers will then be trans-lated by rule into English names and numbers.
Incorporatingthese modules into our system will permit our language modelto 'see back through' multi-word names and numbers.We plan to increase the number of surface forms in our Frenchvocabulary from 60,000 to 280,000 and the number of surfaceforms in our English vocabulary from 40,000 to 70,000.
Wewill also completely reconstruct our morphological tables forboth French and English.A number of new rule-based syntactic transformations willbe added to account for problems encountered in the Julyevaluation.Finally, we plan to incorporate a decision-tree language modelinto our system which can make predictions based on signifi-cantly more context han our existing trigram model.397
