Pang loss :T rans la t ion  Research  Pro jec t  - S i te 2Y.
Wilks, Principal InvestigatorComput ing  Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State University, Las Cruces, New Mexico 88003A Knowledge-based  Mach ine  Ass i s tedPROJECT GOALSThe Computing Research Laboratory (CRL) at NewMexico State University, jointly with the Center forMachine Translation (CMT) at Carnegie Mellon Uni-versity and the Information Sciences Institute (ISI)at the University of Southern California, are devel-oping a Translator's Workstation to assist a user inthe translation of newspaper articles in the area of fi-nance (mergers and acquisitions, followed by joint ven-tures) in one language (Spanish initially, followed byJapanese) into a second language (English).
At its coreis a multilingual, knowledge-based, interlingual, interac-tive, machine-assisted translation system consisting of asource language analysis component, an interactive aug-mentor, and a target language generation component.During the initial phase, the CRL's objectives were todevelop tools for constructing lexical items and onto-logical entries automatically from on-line resources, todevelop the initial Spanish analysis component, and,jointly with CMT and ISI, to establish the infrastruc-ture for the three site project, develop the formats andinitial content of the interlingua, the ontology, and theknowledge base, and to prepare design documents forthe second phase versions of the analysis and generationcomponents, the augmentor, and the translator's work-station.The second phase is a two-year program, and we are cur-rently in the first six months of this phase.
Building onthe results of the initial phase, the second phase callsfor the construction of a new analysis component, witha considerably broader base than the first year analysissytem, and incorporating a wider variety of fail-soft ech-niques; development and incorporation of the ontologyinto the year-two system; use of the jointly-developed in-terlingua; continued emphasis on automatic acquisitionof lexical and semantic information.RECENT RESULTSAt this p6int, a first version of the year-two analysissystem has been completed and is undergoing expan-sion and refinement.
The initial ontology has been con-structed, and a large number of sense-tokens have beenincorporated.
A phrasal lexicon has been extracted fromon-line dictionary resources and is being prepared for in-corporation i to the Translator's WOrkstation.The second year analysis ytem begins with a dictionary-based part-of-speech tagger, followed by a componentwhich chunks the tagged text into small syntactic sec-tions.
These are analyzed and semantic/lexical informa-tion accessed and incorporated into the representation bya constituent parser.
These smaller constituents will begrouped into predicates and arguments, which are thenfurther grouped into clausal structures.
At each level,possible readings are rated for syntactic and semanticlikelihood.With respect o automatic acquisition, several advanceshave occurred in the past year.
We have provided theontology with a sense-disambiguated hierarchy of nom-inal word senses drawn from ?ongman's Dictionary o fContemporary English.
The hierarchy is derived fromdisambiguated genus terms and rooted in the semanticcategories provided by Longman's.
We have gatheredfrom our bilingual dictionaries a large number of phrasescorrelated with translations for that phrase.
Verb classesfor Spanish verbs, used as the basis for the morpholog-ical analysis program that feeds the part-of-speech tag-ger, were provided by Collin's Spanish-English/English-Spanish Dictionary.
In a final note, the CRL has con-tracted with EFE (Spanish newswire service) for a con-tinuous line feed.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARBy next fall we hope to extend the project to a secondsource language (Japanese).
During the remainder ofphase 2, we will deepen and broaden the coverage of theanalysis ystem.
Broadening will include further addi-tion of domain-specific lexical items (and a new domain)and the inclusion of proper name recognizers of varioustypes (gazetteers, company names, personal names andtitles).
Deepening will involve working withthe ontologyto sharpen the semantic oherence judgments-providingfewer but more likely analyses for each input sentence.406
