THE PENMAN PROJECT ONKNOWLEDGE-BASED MACHINE TRANSLAT IONEduard Hovy, Principal InvestigatorInformation Sciences Inst i tute of USC4676 Admira l ty  WayMar ina del Rey, CA 90292-6695PROJECT GOALSThe joint development, ogether with the ULTRAproject at New Mexico State University and the Centerfor Machine Translation at Carnegie Mellon University,of an integrated knowledge-based machine-aided trans-lation system called PANQLOSS.
The ISI-specific workincludes the development of English sentence generationand sentence planning capabilities and the constructionof an Ontology of concepts to act as the semantic lexiconfor all modules of the system as a whole.
In addition,we continue to enhance Penman's existing generationtechnology, to collect and develop ancillary knowledgesources and software (such as grammars or bilingual dic-tionaries and lexicons for German, Japanese, Spanish,and Chinese), and to maintain and distribute Penman.RECENT RESULTSDuring the past year, the generation component ofPAN-CLOSS was installed; PANGLOSS was tested during thefirst DARPA MT evaluation.
This work necessitated thedevelopment of code to transfer the output of New Mex-ico's ULTRA parser to a form suitable for Penman.More recently, Penman Project members have beenworking on the semi-automated construction and acqui-sition of an Ontology for PANGLOSS.
A high-level tax-onomy of the basic concepts required for the processingof ULTRA, the CMU software, and Penman was synthe-sized out of several sources; this 400-odd node taxonomywe call the Ontology Base (OB).
Current work involvesmigrating wordsense names from LDOCE into WordNetusing several automatic techniques and then taxonomiz-ing fragments of WordNet under the OB; at the presenttime, approx.
11,000 concepts have been so taxonomizedand another 10,000 are awaiting final placement.
Ourgoal is an Ontology organized under the OB of approx.50,000 items.
Toward this goal we acquired WordNetfrom Princeton and an online copy of Roget's thesaurus.Ramping up toward making the Ontology support pro-cessing of other languages, we have been collecting mul-tilingual resources of various types.
We have acquiredan online Japanese-English dictionary (approx.
50,000entries with phrases), several Chinese-English online dic-tionaries (approximately equal total size), and are inthe process of acquiring the Collins bilingual Spanish-English dictionary.
We have also established X-windowsbased display capabilities for Japanese and Chinese, in-eluding a Japanese macs editor and dictionary accessintertgce.In other work, the core mapping engine of the SentencePlanning module of PANGLOSS has been constructed andis currently being debugged.
The Sentence Planner con-verts representations of texts written in the Pangloss In-terlingua into SPL expressions suitable for Penman.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARThree principal efforts are planned for the coming year:the construction of the 50,000-node Ontology, the de-velopment of English, Japanese, and Spanish lexiconsassociated with the Ontology, and the development andimplementation f several microtheories for use in sen-tence planning.The main problem in Ontology construction is the au-tomated acquisition under Ontology nodes of semanticinformation, as used during semantic analysis and lexi-cal selection.
A number of methods of extracting suchinformation from dictionaries, text corpora, and otherresources are being developed, as well as a system to as-sist the acquisition of remaining information by humans.A problem in automatically constructing lexicons of var-ious languages i  the association of a wordsense in a dic-tionary with its correct Ontology item (if such exists)or the creation of a new Ontology item and its correctplacement in the Ontology.
Variations of the algorithmsused for associating LDOCE wordsenses with WordNetitems will be used for this task, operating on the bilin-gual dictionaries we have collected.The main problems facing the Sentence Planner are thedevelopment ofmicrotheories for lexical selection, refer-ence (including pronominalization), and theme develop-ment, to ensure high quality and coherent output.421
