THE HCRC MAP TASK CORPUS:NATURAL DIALOGUE FOR SPEECH RECOGNITIONHenry S. Thompson 1,2,3Anne Anderson1, 5Ellen Gurman Bard 1,3,4Gwyneth Doherty-Sneddon l, 5Alison Newlands l,5Cathy Sotillo 1,41: Human Communication Research Centre2: Department of Artificial Intelligence3: Centre for Cognitive Science4: Department of LinguisticsUniversity of Edinburgh2 Buccleuch Place,Edinburgh, EH12 5BBSCOTLAND5: Department ofPsychologyUniversity of Glasgow56 t-lillhead StreetGlasgow, G12SCOTLANDhthompson@edinburgh.ac.ukABSTRACTThe HCRC Map Task corpus has been collectedand transcribed in Glasgow and Edinburgh, andrecently published on CD-ROM.
This effort wasmade possible by funding from the BritishEconomic and Social Research Council.The corpus is composed of 128 two-person conver-sations in both high-quality digital audio andorthographic transcriptions, amounting to 18hours and 150,000 words respectively.The experimental design is quite detailed andcomplex, allowing a number of different phone-mic, syntactico-semantic and pragmatic con-trasts to be explored in a controlled way.The corpus is a uniquely valuable resource forspeech recognition research in particular, as wemove from developing systems intended for con-trolled use by familiar users to systems intendedfor less constrained circumstances and naive oroccasional users.
Examples supporting thisclaim are given, including preliminary evi-dence of the phonetic consequences of secondmention and the impact of different styles of ref-erent negotiation on communicative efficacy.1.
INTRODUCTIONThe HCRC Map Task corpus has been col-lected and transcr ibed in Glasgow andEdinburgh, and recently published on CD-ROM (HCRC 1993).
This effort was madepossible by funding from the Brit ishEconomic and Social Research Council.The group which designed and collected thecorpus covers a wide range of interests andthe corpus reflects this, providing a resourcefor studies of natural  dialogue from manydifferent perspectives.In this paper we will give a brief summary ofthe experimental design, and then concen-trate on those aspects of the corpus whichmake it a uniquely valuable resource forspeech recognition research in particular, aswe move from developing systems intended25for controlled use by familiar users to sys-tems intended for less constrained circum-stances and naive or occasional users.
Someprel iminary results of work on the phoneticconsequences of second mention and on theimpact of different styles of referent negotia-tion on communicative fficacy will also bepresented.2.
CORPUS DESIGN ANDCHARACTERISTICS2.1.
The TaskThe conversations were elicited by an exer-cise in task-oriented cooperative problemsolving.
The two participants at facing oneanother in a small recording studio, sepa-rated by a table on which sat back-to-backreading stands.
On each stand was aschematic map, each visible only to one par-ticipant.
Each map consisted of an outlineand roughly a dozen labelled features (e.g.
"white cottage", "Green Bay", "oak forest").Most features are common to the two maps,but not all, and the participants were in-formed of this.
One map had a route drawnin, the other did not.
The task was for theparticipant without the route to draw one onthe basis of discussion with the participantwith the route.2.2.
Experimental  DesignUsing an elaboration of a design developedover a number of years (see e.g.
Brown,Anderson et al 1983), we recorded 128 two-person conversations (each talker in fourconversations), employing 64 talkers (32male, 32 female), almost all born and raisedin the Glasgow area, speaking with an edu-cated West of Scotland accent.
High qualityrecordings were made using Shure SM10Aclose-talking microphones, one talker perchannel on stereo DAT (Sony DTC1000ES).The experimental design is quite detailed andcomplex, allowing a number of differentphonemic, syntactico-semantic and prag-matic contrasts to be explored in a controlledway.
In particular, maps and feature nameswere designed to allow for controlled explo-ration of phonological reductions of variouskinds in a number of different referentialcontexts, and to provide a range of differentstimuli  to referent negotiation, based onmatches and mis-matches between the twomaps.Among the independent variables in the de-sign were:?
Eye-contact---in half  the conversa-tions, the participants could seeone another's faces, in half, theycould not.Famil iar ity-- in half  the conversa-tions, the talkers were acquain-tances, in half, strangers.Task role--Each ta lker  partici-pated in four conversations, twoas Instruction Giver (the one withthe route) and two as InstructionFollower (the one trying to draw it)For a complete description of the experimen-tal design, see Anderson, Bader et al (1991).2.3.
Corpus Ch~racterlsticsSubjects accommodated asily to the task andexperimental setting, and produced evidentlyunselfconscious and f luent speech.
Thesyntax is largely clausal rather than senten-tial; showing good turn-taking, with rela-tively little overlap/interruption.
The totalcorpus runs about 18 hours of speech, yield-ing 150,000 word tokens drawn from 2,000word form types.
Word lists containing allthe feature names were also elicited from allspeakers, along with a number of 'accent di-agnosis' utterances.The acoustic quality of the recordings is goodbut not outstanding-- in  particular, stereoseparation is not perfect, in that it is oftenpossible to detect he voice of one talker veryfaintly on the other talker's channel.
A verymodest amount of rumble and other non-specific background noise is occasionally de-tectable.3.
THE TRANSCRIPTIONSThe transcriptions are at the orthographiclevel, quito detailed, including filled pauses,false starts and repetitions, broken words,26etc.
Considerable care has been taken to en-sure consistency of notation, which is thor-oughly documented.
Although the full com-plexity of overlapped regions has not been re-flected in the transcriptions, such regionsare  clearly set off from the rest of the tran-scripts.
Transcripts are connected to theacoustic snmpled data by sample numbersmarked every few turns.Text Encoding Init iative-compliant SGMLmarkup is used, both within transcripts toindicate turn boundaries and for other meta-textual purposes, and also in separate corpusheader and transcript header files, but thiswas done in a manner designed to make ac-cessing the transcripts as plain text veryeasy.We also used a very light-weight non-TEImarkup for textual annotations, to marksuch things as abandoned words, letternames, filled pauses and editorial uncertain-ties.A brief extract from a transcript is given be-low as Figure 1, i l lustrating various aspectsof the transcription, including the tags u forutterance, s fo for speech file offset, bo forbegin overlap and eo for end overlap, as wellas the le  microtag for a letter name.<u who=G n=3><sfo samp=107715><bo id=o75a>About half  an inch above it, we'vegot an {lelx} mark ing  start.
Have<u who=F n=4><sfo samp=208987>Yes.<u who=G n=5>you got that?<eo id=o75a>Figure 1.
Extract from a Map Task Corpustranscript4.
THE CD-ROMSThe published version of the corpus occupies8 CD-ROMs, and contains:?
a complete set of transcripts;?
20KHz sampled versions of bothchannels of the associated speechfor all the conversations;?
for each talker sampled audio foran accent diagnostic passage anda scripted reading of a list of allthe feature names from the map;?
images of the maps employed;?
documentation;?
UN IX  TM too ls  for l inking the spo-ken and written mater ial  andother manipulations of the corpusmaterials.Preparation of the corpus for publication wasa much larger task than we had expected,and is described in some detail in (Thompson& Bader, 1993).5.
IMPLICATIONS FOR SPEECHRECOGNITION5.1.
High-q-~llty un~cripted dialogueRecorded collections of natural conversationare not newmnot only do many l inguistshave a drawer full of tapes of dinner table orstaff room talk, but also more systematic andextensive collection efforts have been carriedout on several occasions as part of major ref-erence corpora building projects.
But with noexceptions we are aware of, all such materialis of highly varying acoustic quality, and israrely if ever suitable for extensive computa-tional processing.On the other hand, to date the large develop-ment corpora collected and used to such goodeffect by the speech recognition community,although of a very high standard acousti-cally, have been exclusively monologue, anduntil very recently exclusively scripted.Thus the Map Task corpus occupies a hith-erto vacant position in corpus design spaceit is natural, unscripted ialogue recorded toa standard suitable for digital processing.We hope the widespread availability of such aresource will help to stimulate a change inthe way phonology, morphology, syntax andsemantics are pursued parallel to the changewhich has already occurred in phonetics,that is, a change from theory development27dependent on small amounts of data, oftenconstructed by the theorist, to theory develop-ment dependent  on, indeed immersedwith in,  a large amount  of natura l lyoccurring data.Note that this methodological change is, or atleast ought to be, independent of meta-theo-retical disposition, and in part icular theabove remarks are not meant to imply a biasin favour of stochastic or self-organising the-oretical frameworks.5.2.
SyntaxThere is modest controversy brewing aboutthe relation between spoken and written lan-guage, particularly in a highly literate lan-guage/culture context such as obtains forEnglish.
It has been argued (see e.g.
Miller1993) that the grammar of spoken English isqualitatively different from that of writtenEnglish, and demands eparate treatment.In so far as the progress of speech recogni-tion from relatively constrained interactionsituations and relatively constrained lan-guage will depend on grammars  and/ormodels of natural  English conversation, theresource provided by the Map Task has anobvious rule to play.5.3.
ProsodyIt has long been assumed that there is amutual ly  informing relat ionship betweenprosody and discourse structure.
The simpleWord form typesIWord tokens'-iLurnsgoal-oriented nature of the Map Task conver-sations, and the ease with which quite local,short-term goals can be identified in terms ofthe part of the route in question at any giventime, means that the corpus provides an ex-cellent base at attempting to explicate thisrelationship in some detail.
Work has begunon relating the inventories of intonation onthe one hand and moves within conversa-tional gRmes on the other, with initially en-couraging resul ts  (Kowtko, I sard  andDoherty 1992).As in the case of syntax, we would hope thatwidespread provision of the corpus will en-able comparative xploration of the numer-ous theories of discourse structure, prosodyand their relations now being suggested.5.4.
Fast speech rulesThe names associated with the landmarksdrawn on the maps were designed inter aliato provide opportunities for various forms ofphonological modification, in part icular t-delet ion ("vast  meadow"),  d-delet ion("reclaimed fields"), glottal isat ion ("whitemountain") and nasal assimi lat ion ("cranebay").
Furthermore, on each map one suchname would be paired with another, s imilarname, with the intention of assessing theimpact of the (putative) necessity of con-trastive stress ("crane bay" vs. "green bay").The availability in the corpus of citation formpronunciations be each speaker will providea very useful baseline for studies in this area.Whole Eye No EyeCorpus Contact Contact2070 1553 1558All turns 152298 69762 82536Instruction Giver 104828 48361 56467Instruction Follower 47470 21401 26069per conversation 1190 1090 1290All turns 21251 9513 11738Instruction Giver 10678 4777 5901Instruction Follower 10573 4736 5837per conversation 166 149 183Table 1.
Summary corpus statistics285.5.
The role of eye contactNot surprisingly, there are obvious gross ef-fects on the conversations of the difference be-tween the eye-contact and no-eye-contactconditions.
The no-eye-contact conversationscontained 22% more turns on average, butonly 18% more words, i.e.
more turns, buteach fewer words per turn.
This is presum-ably because of the increased need for fre-quent back-channel confirmations in the no-eye-contact ondition.The overall statistics for word tokens andturns are as given in Table 1.
The im-plications of the language differences in-duced by the presence or absence of eye-con-tact are clearly significant for a range of dif-ferent potential speech technology applica-tions.
See (Boyle, Anderson & Newlands, inpress) for more details.6.
PRELIMINARY RESULTS6.1.
Second MentionThe duration and/or (excerpted) intelligi-bility of different tokens of a word uttered bythe same speaker have been shown to dependon the availability of information outwiththe word's acoustic shape which might helplisteners to recognize it.
In  the context of ex-tended discourse, this means word tokensare less intelligible when they refer to Givenentities.On the face of it, the tendency to produce de-graded tokens where they are redundantseems wonderful ly cooperative, in theGricean sense of the term: when there isprevious relevant material, intelligibility isreduced.
The less intelligible repeated to-kens are in fact helpful to listeners, for theymake better prompts to earlier discoursematerial, either because they signal listen-ers to associate the word's meaning withsome entity already established in a dis-course model (Fowler and Housum, 1987)or because such stored information must becalled into play for successful on-line wordrecognition (Bard et al, 1991).The difficulty is that degraded tokens arenot restricted to contexts in which the lis-tener can recover the conditioning infor-marion.
Using the Map Task corpus, wehave begun to investigate how far speakers'adjustment of intelligibility is egocentricallyrather than cooperatively based, that is, howfar the speaker's own relevant knowledgeprovides his/her model for what the lis-tener knows.We have found the expected loss of intelligi-bility for excerpted second mentions asagainst both first mentions and citationforms.
Interestingly, we found that the co-referential repetition effect found for mono-logue holds in dialogue: it doesn't matter whoutters the word first.
When it comes to thesecond mention of an entity either speakermay reduce intelligibility.
This suggests thatdialogue participants maintain a commonrecord of textually evoked given entities.It would also appear that once an entity istextually evoked there is no further effect ofvisual information.
That is, it doesn't matterwhether the listener or speaker can see theobject hey're referring to.Also relevant is a significant intelligibilityloss we found in mentions which are only'second' for the speaker, because the relevantfeature was first mentioned not in the cur-rent conversation, but in a previousconversation with a different listener.Thus on the basis of our investigations todateit would appear, somewhat surprisingly, thatspeakers reduce articulatory effort on apurely egocentric basis, without regard to lis-teners' ability to share the contextual condi-tioning this implies.Emea~ of New Item IntroductionThe Map Task corpus presents an excellentopportunity for examining how speakers in-troduce new i tems into a discourse.Moreover, because we can measure to overallcommunicative effectiveness of a conversa-tion by reference to the accuracy of the result-ing map, we can go further and attempt toassess the value of particular item introduc-tion strategies.Definite versus indefinite article is almostcertainly too simplistic a starting point forinvestigating this issue.
This is born out by atabulation of new item introduction over half29the corpus, as shown in Table 2.introductions are those in which the speaker "RightNon-Question IntroductionsArticles: None Definite IndefiniteIG.
Introductions 0.54 2.75 0.35IF.
Introductions 0.67 0.87 1.2'Question' queries the existence of the referent, e.g.you got an ext inct  volcano?
".Question IntroductionsNone Definite Indefinite1.5 1.48 3.290.32 0.34 0.46Table 2.
Mean numbertion givers (IG) and instruction followers (IF).of introductions per dialogue by form of introductions used by instruc-Overall definites and indefinites appearedwith equal frequency.If we look at listener's responses to the intro-duction of items they don't have on theirmap, we see a significant correlation of in-formative responses ("I haven't got an extinctvolcano") with question introductions, but notwith indefinite article usage as such.
Also,using the accuracy of the route drawn as ameasure  of communicat ive fficacy, wefound a significant correlation between use ofquestion introductions by the IG and routeaccuracy.
There is an independent correla-tion between informative IF responses andaccuracy.
See (Anderson & Boyle, in press)for more details.7.
CONCLUSIONThe HCRC Map Task corpus has been de-signed to allow investigation of a range of is-sues relevant o both psychological models ofhuman language production and compre-hension and to speech technology, especiallyas the focus on effort switches to more natu-ral, unconstrained speech.
Prel iminary re-sults of studies in several areas provide en-couraging evidence that the corpus will in-deed yield valuable insights...REFERENCESAnderson, A. H., M. Bader, E. G. Bard, E.H. Boyle, G. M. Doherty, S. C. Garrod, S. D.Isard, J. C. Kowtko, J. M. McAllister, J.Miller, C. F. Sotillo, H. S. Thompson andR.
Weinert.
"The HCRC Map TaskCorpus", Language and Speech 34(4), 1991,351-366.Anderson, A. H. and E. Boyle.
"Forms ofintroduction in dialogue, their discoursecontexts and communicative conse-.......10.quences ~, Language and CognitiveProcesses, in press.Bard, E.G., L. Cooper, J. Kowtko and C.Brew.
"Psycholinguistic studies on the in-cremental recognition of speech: A revisedand extended introduction to the messy andthe sticky ~, University of Edinburgh:Centre for Cognitive Science DYANAReport R1.3.B, 1991.Boyle, E. H., A. Anderson and A.Newlands.
"The effects of visibility on dia-logue & performance", Language andSpeech, in press.Brown, G., A. Anderson, G. Yule and R.Shillcock.
Teaching Talk, Cambridge,U.K.
: Cambridge University Press, 1983.Fowler, C. and J. Housum.
"Talkers' sig-nalling of 'new' and 'old' words in speechand listeners' perception and use of the dis-tinction ~, Journal of Memory andLanguage, 26, 1987, 489--505.Human Communication Research Centre.HCRC Map Task Corpus, Edinburgh, U.K.:HCRC, 1993.Kowtko, J., S. Isard and G. Doherty.Conversational games within dialogue,University of Edinburgh: HCRC TechnicalReport RP-31, 1992.Miller, J.
"Spoken and written language:language acquisition and literacy ".
in R.Scholes, ed., Linguistics and Literacy,Lawrence Erlbaum, 1993.Thompson, H.S.
and M. Bader.
Publishinga Spoken and Written Corpus on CD-ROM:The H C R C Map Task Experience.,University of Edinburgh: HCRC TechnicalReport, 1993.30
