PERCEIVED PROSODIC BOUNDARIES AND THEIRPHONETIC CORRELATESRenk Collier; Jan Roelof de Pijper and A ngelien SandermanInstitute for Perception Research / IPOP.O.
Box 513, 5600 MB Eindhoven, The NetherlandsABSTRACTThis paper addresses two main questions: (a) Can listeners as-sign values of perceived boundary strength to the juncturebetween any two words?
(b) If so, what is the relationshipbetween these values and various (combinations of)suprasegmental features.
Three speakers read a set of twentyutterances of varying length and complexity.
A panel ofnineteen listeners assigned boundary strength values to each ofthe 175 word boundaries in the material.
Then the correlationwas established between the variable strength of the perceivedboundaries and three prosodic variables: melodic discontinuity,declination reset and pause.
The results show that speakers maydiffer in their strategies of prosodic boundary marking andlisteners agree in the perceptual weight they attribute to theprosodic ues.1.
INTRODUCTIONAny two successive words may vary as to their syntacticor semantic ohesiveness.
The latter is likely to be strong-er if the two words are part of the same linguistic con-stituent; conversely, the occurrence of a constituent boun-dary between words decreases their degree of cohesive-ness.
For example, in the sentence "(the man) (is sitting)(in the chair)", any two words separated by round brack-ets are structurally farther apart than those within a pairof brackets.
Speakers are capable of making the juncturebetween constituents audible by prosodic means: theymay produce appropriate cues in terms of pause, pitchand duration parameters.
Listeners, on the other hand, canmake use of these cues to segment he incoming flow ofspeech into word sequences that may be treated as awhole, which facilitates the comprehension process.
Incertain cases, prosodic demarcation may help in resolvingstructural ambiguity, for instance in utterances of the type"The girl saw the man with the telescope", in which theprepositional phrase specifies either the verb or its directobject \[1, 2\].
But in utterances containing no surface syn-tactic homonymy, too, prosodic boundaries may delineatecoherent word groups and lend support to the listener'shypotheses about syntactic-semantic structure as, for in-stance, in "the beautiful girl / with brown eyes / told herstory / to the psychiatrist" \[3\].This paper presents results of research that, starting fromthe observation that listeners do provide prosodic boun-dary cues, addresses two main questions:(a) Can listeners assign a value of Perceived BoundaryStrength (PBS) to word boundaries?
(b) If so, what is the relationship between PBS and dif-ferent (combinations of) suprasegmental features?The answer to these questions may lead to a better modelof what prosodic resources a speaker can draw on tohighlight the syntactic-semantic structure of an utterance.Such insight may, in turn, contribute to improved prosodyin speech synthesis, by making it sound more natural and-more importantly- by making it linguistically moretransparent and therefore easier to comprehend.
This re-search may also shed light on how a listener makes useof the demarcative information encoded in prosodic fea-tures.
In that respect, it has relevance for (knowledge-based) automatic speech recognition, where the inclusionof prosodic information may support he syntactic-seman-tic parse of the input, especially if the latter containsstructural ambiguities.This line of research is in agreement with the growinginterest in the communicative function of prosody, whichmay contain information ot only about utterance-internalphrasing, as already suggested above \[4\], but also aboutthe topical organization of discourse in monologues anddialogues \[5\] or about speaker-dependent features uch asemotional state \[6\].2.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACHIn this section we present part of the results obtained inan experiment that aimed at answering the two questionsmentioned in the introduction.
'Ib this effect we havecollected appropriate speech material, in which we askedlisteners to score the PBS of each word boundary.
Sub-sequently, the material was subjected to various phoneticanalyses, the results of which were then correlated withthe PBS's.
Finally, the predictions of an algorithm thatassigns prosodic structure to unmarked text were verifiedagainst he PBS's.341PBS:, , x , ,1.7 3.5 8.0 3.8 .
3.3 t delexical.
.
.
.  "
I f  "w- "wl~'~IW ~~l l~v  ~~ a, r~intelligente, onderzoeker reserveercle via dq te le fax  ~ text.c Iizat i.~:~:G=:, ..--"-.
~..10C ~ ............................... 1o111 IIA ........ p i tch  1 &A 2 = contour/ ~ transcriptiondeclination line declination resetl~gu~ 1: (A) PBS values and 03) results of the phonetic, analyses for one of the test utterances of the professionalspeaker.2.1.
Speech MaterialA set of twenty Dutch sentences was constructed, whichdiffered sufficiently in length and complexity to warrantthe occurrence of prosodic boundaries of varyingstrengths.
These sentences contained a total of  175 wordboundaries.
This set was read out by three native spea-kers: two males, of whom one was a professional speaker,and one female.
To evaluate the possible influence ofsyntactic and semantic information, all 20 utterances spo-ken by the professional speaker and 3 of the utterancesspoken by the other two were processed in such a waythat the contents of the utterances was rendered unintelli-gible, while the prosodic features were kept intact.
In thisway, a so-called 'delexical ized' version of the test materi-al was created m addition to the 'normal'  version.2.2.
PBS AssignmentIn a number of successive sessions, nineteen listenerswere confronted with the 3 x 20 = 60 utterances in thenormal version and the (1 x 20) + (2x  3) = 26 in thedelexicalized version.
They were asked to indicate, on a10-point scale, how strong they felt the juncture at eachword boundary to be.
The mean of the nineteen scoresper word boundary was taken as a measure of the percep-tual boundary strength (PBS) of that word boundary.Thus, the PBS was obtained for each word boundary asproduced by each of the speakers in each test version.An example of the PBS values obtained for one of thetest utterances is shown in Figure la.
As can be seen,listeners appear to be quite capable of distinguishing adiversity of PBS values, both in the lexical and delexicalconditions.2.3 Phonetic AnalysisThe acoustic / phonetic analysis of the material concen-trated on the speakers' use of pauses and intonation tohighlight word boundaries.
It was determined for eachword boundary in the 60 utterances 1) whether there wasa pause and, if so, of what length; 2) whether there wasmelodic discontinuity across the boundary and, if so, of342what type; and 3) whether the boundary was associatedwith a declination reset.The location and length of pauses were determined bystraightforward inspection of the wavetbrms.
Melodictranscriptions of the 60 utterances were obtained by acombination of pitch measurement, pitch stylization andindependent perceptual evaluation by experts, l,'ollowingthe typology outlined in 't l lart et al (171, p.81), lburtypes of melodic discontinuity were distinguished in theway the speakers marked the word boundaries: ?10, 1E,12, IA2'.Figure lb presenls a survey of the results of the phoneticanalyses for one of the test utterances.3.
RESULTSFor all three speakers, a high correlation was found be-tween the PBS's obtained in the normal and delexicalizedtest versions (r, = .78, p < .01).
This warrants the con-clusion that, in this experiment, syntactic and semanticfactors did not affect the listeners' judgments.
The delexi-calized test version is ignored in the rest of this paper.3.1.
Perceptual Boundary Strength AndPhonefc CuesProf Nonprof- 1 Nonprof-2melodic discontinuities 43 37 31pauses 28 14 11declination resets 14 2 0Table 1: Frequency of occurrence of the three phoneticcues across the three speakers.The three speakers appear to make different use of phone-tic cues to mark prosodic boundaries, as shown inTable 1.
The table shows that the professional speakermade more extensive use of all three phonetic cues thanthe other two speakers and was the only one to employdeclination resets in a systematic fashion.
Not shown inthe table is the t~ct that there were also clear differencesbetween the speakers in preferred type of melodic discon-tinuity.Combinations of the three cues can be considered as pos-sible phonetic strategies of the speakers to mark prosodicboundaries.
Figure 2 shows the relation of these strategiesto PBS.
Generally speaking, PBS values are higher asmore phonetic cues are associated with a given wordboundary.
While the speakers differ in their preferencesfor certain strategies, the impact of strategy on Pi\]S isroughly the same across speakers.Additional trends not shown in l"igure 2 are the follow-ing.
First, there was a trend for longer pauses to be as-sociated with greater t'BS's for all speakers.
As for thetour types of melodic discontinuity, the main tendency isthat melodic discontinuity inw)lving a continuation rise'2 '  (a steep pitch rise ve.ry late in the pre-boundary syll-N-1410,0\] ?
~ N-O 2nonpmf-1 N - 5 9 0 I ?
nonprof-2 3 9 2.dr~-~qnt na-0~qnt na-0~nt na-0~nt ~-p~qnt0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 I I 1 1 IF lgu~ 2: PBS per phonetic cue combination: rst  = decli-nation reset, pse  = pause, i n t  = melodic cue, 0 and I =absence or presence of a cue.able) is associated with greater PBS's than other types.The data show strong interactions between the three pho-netic cues.
"/'he main observations are that l) the presenceof a declination reset implies the presence of a pause inall cases, 2) the presence of a pause implies the presenceof a melodic discontinuity in about 80% of the cases, forall speakers, 3) pauses not accompanied by a melodic cueare usually shorter than 100 ms, and 4) it is quite com-mon for word boundaries to be marked only by a melodiccue.3.2.
Perceptual Boundary Strength AndP~sodic BoundariesThe prosodic analysis of the test material consisted of theapplication of the latest version of the so-called Pros-3algorithm \[8\].
This is a program currently under develop-ment at IPO to automatically determine accent and proso-dic phrase structure of sentences on the basis of syntacticand metrical analysis.
In this way, each word boundarywas assigned to one of three predicted prosodic boundarycategories: no boundary, Phi-boundary or I-boundary.343As can be seen in figure 3, word boundaries that weredesignated as I-boundaries by the Pros-3 algorithm havegreater PBS's than Phi-boundaries, while these in turn areperceived as stronger than unlabelled boundaries.
Thiseffect is apparent for all speakers, but is clearest in theprofessional speaker.NO baundary Phi -baundanj  l-bounda~jFigure 3: PBS per prosodic boundary.be exploited tentatively in text-to-speech conversion andin automatic speech recognition.Finally, the gradience that can be observed in the PBSvalues of Figure 2, shows that listeners can do better thanmerely distinguishing between presence or absence of aboundary.
On the basis of our limited set of data, it is notpossible to determine xactly how many categories liste-ners can discriminate reliably.
This will be partly deter-mined by the number and the nature of  the phonetic cues,and need not be limited to a maximum of three (no boun-dary, minor boundary, major boundary).
Indeed, Figure 2suggests that it is not unreasonable to assume that liste-ners can handle five PBS categories.
Interestingly, such afive-level distinction is used in the TOBI labellingscheme \[9\].
However, an important difference betweenthe two approaches i that the TOBI scheme obliges labe-lers to explicitly assess the nature of the phonetic cues,while PBS values are the result of a purely intuitive judg-ment.Refenmces4.
CONCLUSIONSOur experimental investigation has brought to light thatspeakers and listeners alike are aware of the role pitchand pause can play in utterance-internal phrasing.
Theseprosodic parameters can effectively highlight how theutterance is to be chunked into coherent word groups.
Asis often the case with prosody, there is no obligation onthe speaker's side to actually use pitch or pause for acommunicative purpose, such as boundary marking.
Infact, we have seen (in Table 1) that our professionalspeaker produces more numerous prosodic cues and thatall three speakers differ in the relative frequency of use ofpitch or pause devices.
But, whenever listeners are of-fered particular (combinations of) prosodic cues, theyagree well on how to interpret hem in terms of P/3S (seeFigure 2).
Thus, there seems to be prosodic freedom onthe speaker's ide, while the listener cannot help but payattention to melodic or temporal cues whenever they arepresent.Apparently, a certain amount of gradience is involved inthe marking of constituent boundaries: the strength of aprosodic boundary reflects to some extent the depth ofthe syntactic-semantic juncture at a given point in the ut-terance.
It is not unlikely that the inclusion of  additionalprosodic parameters, such as local variations in speechrhythm (in particular preboundary lengthening), will adddetail to the emerging picture of syntax-to-prosody cor-respondence.
But pitch and pause alone already showsufficiently clear relations to the linguistic structure of theutterance, that their capacity to reveal this structure can1.2.3.4.5.6.7.8.Price, E, Ostendorf, M., and Wightman, C. "Prosody andparsing", In: Proc.
of the Second DARPA Workshop onSpeech and Natural Language, 1989, Morgan-Kaufman, SanMateo, CA, pp.
5-11.Price, E, Ostendorf, M., Shattuck-Hufnagel, S. and Fong, C."The use of prosody in syntactic disambiguation", J.
A coust.Soc.
Amer., Vol.
90, 1991, pp.
2956-2970.Terken, J. and Collier, R. "Syntactic influences on prosody",In: Speech perception, production and linguistic structure, Y.Tohkura, E. Vatikiotis-Bateson and Y. Sagisaka (eds.
),Ohmsa Press, Tokyo, 1991, pp.
427---438.Ladd, D.R~ "Declination 'resef and the hierarchical organiza-tion of utterances", J. Acoust.
Soc.
Amer., Vol.
84, 1988, pp.530-544.Pierrehumbert, J., and Hirschberg, J.
"The meaning of in-tonational contours in the interpretation of discourse", In:Intentions in communication, P. Cohen, S. Morgan and M.Pollock (Eds), MIT Press, Cambridge MA, 1990, pp.271-31 I.Carlson, R., Granstrom, B., and Nord, L. "Experiments withemotive speech-acted utterances and synthesized replicas", In:Proceedings Int.Conf.
on Spoken Languague Processing,Banff, 1992, pp.
671-674.
't Hart, J., Collier, R. and Cohen, A.
A perceptual study ofintonation, Cambridge University Press, 1990.Dirksen, A.
"Accenting and deaccenting: a declarative ap-proach", In: Proc.
15th Int.
Conf.
on Computational Linguis-344tics, COLING, Association for Computational Linguistics,1992, pp.
865 -869.9.
Silverman, K., Beckman, M,, Pitrelli, J., Ostendorf, M.,Wightman, C., Price, P., Pierrehumbert, J. and Hirschberg, J.(1992).
"TOBI: A standard for labeling English prosody",In: Proc.
lnt.
Conf.
on Spoken Language Processing, 1992,pp.
867 870.345
