Diderot: T IPSTER Program, Automatic Data Extractionfrom Text Util izing Semantic AnalysisY.
Wilks, J. Pustejovsky S, J. CowieComputing Research Laboratory, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM 88003&Computer Science S,Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02254PROJECT GOALSThe Computing Research Laboratory at New MexicoState University and the Computer Science Departmentat Brandeis University have been working for the past18 months on the development of a system to performautomatic data extraction from texts on restricted sub-ject areas (for business - joint ventures and for micro-electronics - improvements in semiconductor technology)in two languages (English and Japanese).The eventual aim is to be able to automatically populatedata-bases containing information relevant o the workof government analysts.The system, Diderot, is to be extendible and the tech-niques used not explicitly tied to the two particular lan-guages, nor to the finance and electronics domains whichare the initial targets of the Tipster project.
To achievethis objective the project has as a primary goal the explo-ration of the usefulness of machine readable dictionariesand corpora as source for the semi-automatic creation ofdata extraction systems.RECENT RESULTSIn the past year we have implemented 5 different ext ex-traction systems three for English and two for Japanese.Experiments have been carried out on the derivation ofsyntactic and semantic information automatically frommachine readable dictionaries and text corpora.
Statis-tical methods have been developed for recognizing rele-vant texts or sections of texts.
Methods have been de-veloped which tag text using finite state automata whichmark organizations, human names, places, products anddates.
A parser generator has been produced which con-verts Generative Lexical Semantic structures into Defi-nite Clause Grammar ules.Japanese and English systems for a subset of the jointventure domain were evaluated on their performanceagainst unseen texts for the Tipster 12 month evaluation.Full coverage Japanese and English systems for microelectronics were tested for the 18 month evaluation.
Fullcoverage systems for the business domain were not corn-pleted in time for this evaluation and enhanced versionsof the 12 month systems were used.
The detailed resultsof the evaluations are reported in the Tipster 12 and 18month session notebooks.
The performance of the En-glish systems is still very poor.
The performance of theJapanese systems is significantly better, with the mostrecently developed micro-electronics system performingwith a precision of 48% and a recall of 26%.
It wouldappear that a combination of factors has influenced thisresult including more specific hand tuning and a singlesystem developer.Tools have been created to support human text extrac-tion for Japanese and English for both domains.
Thesehave been used by IDA to produce all the training data(key structures extracted from over 4,000 texts) for theTipster extraction project.
Work has commenced on atool (Tabula Rasa) which allows the creation of templateextraction tools for human analysts and which also sup-ports the definition of an extraction task.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARThe principal objective for the next six months is to pro-duce systems for English and Japanese which performunifornaly well (around 50% precision and 40% recall).Initially we plan to hand tune our English systems toprovide a 'core' system of good quality.
We then in-tend to extend the coverage of this system by automat-ically extending the lexicon using machine readable dic-tionaries and information extracted automatically fromcorpora.
At present most parts of the Diderot systemare easily configurable for new languages and/or do-mains.
The modules which perform reference resolutionwere specifically written for each domain (topic) and lan-guage.
We intend to modify these and separate as far aspossible domain information from the general purposereference resolution mechanism.Subsequently, we hope to be involved in the next phaseof Tipster, both ill the provision of modules for informa-tion extraction and in the provision of tools to assist thedesign process and to support the integration of auto-matic and human information extraction.405
