THE CONSORTIUM FOR LEX ICAL  RESEARCHLouise Guthrie, Principal InvestigatorComput ing  Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State  Univers i tyLas Cruces, New Mexico 88003PROJECT GOALSThe Consortium for Lexical Research (CLR), establishedby the Association for Computational Linguistics, withfunding from DARPA, is now ending its third year.
TheConsortium is sited at the Computing Research Lab-oratory, New Mexico, USA, under its Director, LouiseGuthrie, and an ACL advisory committee consisting ofRoy Byrd, Ralph Grishman, and Mark Liberman.The objective of the Consortium for Lexical Research isto act as a clearinghouse, in the US and internationally,for lexical data and software.
It shares lexical data andtools used to perform research on natural anguage dic-tionaries and lexicons, thus accelerating the scale andspeed of the development of natural language under-standing programs via standard lexicons and software.The task of the CLR is primarily to facilitate research,making available to the whole natural anguage process-ing community certain resources now held only by a fewgroups that have special relationships with companies ordictionary publishers.RECENT RESULTSWith a repository of over 275 items, ftp accesses aver-aging almost 8,000 per month, and a membership rosterwhich includes most of the major natural anguage pro-cessing centers in the U.S., CLR has fulfilled many of thegoals envisioned at its inception.
Our focus this year hasbeen on the acquisition of new materials and the recruit-ing of new members.
Response to the Consortium hasbeen enthusiastic and continuous.
Information about heCLI~, including the catalog of offerings, the membershipor provider agreements, or any previous newsletter, canbe obtained from lexical@nmsu.edu.Our current status can be summarized as follows:Col lect ion The CLR repository has grown significantlyin the last year, becoming especially strong in tools forlinguistic analysis.
Our holdings encompass lexicons,parsers, morphological nalyzers, dictionary tools, anda wide variety of other materials.
We provide a descrip-tive catalog of all major holdings.
A group of publicdomain resources has also been obtained and cataloged.The acquisition of software and data from publishers andresearchers i  ongoing.Contracts Together with our university lawyers, wehave developed contracts for members and providers.Negotiations with dictionary publishers have been slow,but we now have arrangements with Longman andHarper-Collins publishers to facilitate the purchase oftheir machine readable dictionaries by members.
We arecurrently working on contracts with two more dictionarypublishers, one American and one foriegn.Membersh ip  We now have 57 members of the CLR:30 universities, 19 companies (including Apple, BBN,and Xerox) and 8 government organizations.
Member-ship growth is lead by acquisitions development; as ourrepository becomes more substantial we have witnesseda concurrent rise in membership inquiries.Publ ic i ty  The Consortium publishes a newsletter 8times a year, which is distributed to it's members andto core researchers in lexicography.
The current mail-ing list has more than 700 individuals and organizations,many of whom wrote and requested that their names beincluded.
The newsletter highlights topical areas, andinforms members of new materials.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARWe plan to expand membership and holdings steadilyover the year, and progress toward our long term goal ofestablishing the Consortium as a self-supporting entity.We hope to do this by signing agreements with otherdictionary publishers to make their products availablethrough the CLR and by continuing to solicit contri-butions of software or data from researchers.
CLR hasenjoyed a supportive working relationship with the Lin-guistic Data Consortium (LDC) since our inception; wehope to foster still closer ties which will include jointplanning and operational activities.
We are also seek-ing to expand CLR through alliances in Europe.
Thiswould allow quicker access to our archives for interna-tional members and open up important avenues for CLRinto the acquisition of European resources.463
