Evaluating the Use of Prosodic Informationin Speech Recognition and UnderstandingM.
Ostendotf P. Price S. Shattuck HufnagelPrincipal InvestigatorsBoston University SRI International M IT  RLEBoston, MA 02215 Menlo Park, CA 94025 Cambridge, MA 02138PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project is to investigate the use of differ-ent levels of prosodic information in speech recognition andunderstanding.
The two main thrusts in the current workinvolve the use of prosodic information i  parsing and detec-tion/correction fdisflueneies, but we have also investigatedduration :modeling for continuous peech recognition.
Theresearch :involves determining a representation f prosodicinformation suitable for use in speech understanding systems,developing reliable algorithms for detection of prosodic uesin speech, investigating architectures for integrating prosodiccues in speech understanding systems, and assessing poten-tial performance improvements by evaluating prosody algo-rithms in actual spoken language systems (SLS).
This researchis sponsored jointly by ARIA and NSF, NSF grant no.
IPA-8905249.RECENT RESULTSRecent results on this project are summarized below, withnames of the students primarily responsible for the work in-dicated in parentheses.?
Extended the prosodic prominence and break acousticmodels by implementing an iterative pruning algorithm(hi.
VeiUeux), integrating text and acoustic models (D.Macannuco), and developing a new energy feature basedon results of recent linguistic studies.?
Continued work in prosody-parse coring, running testson a larger set of sentences and optimizing on word er-ror rate and achieving 10% reduction in word error bycombining the prosody-parse score with acoustic and lan-guage scores from the MIT ATIS system.
Experimentson the SPA ATIS system are in progress.
(N. Veilleux)?
Further explored parametric duration modeling in CSRusing maximum likelihood clustering and speaking rateadaptation.
Observed a 10% reduction in word error onthe RM task, but no improvement in initial experimentson the WSJ task.
(C. Fong)?
In analyses of the ATIS corpus, found that: hesitationsare associated with intonation patterns similar to those infrilled pauses (in addition to long pauses and lengthenedsegments) and occur at locations with relatively higherperplexity in the language model (N. Veilleux and A.Schlosser), that filled pauses occur almost exclusively inlow-probability word sequences and have longer schwaduration than in the determiner "a", and that there aredifferences inthe fO patterns of fluent vs. disfluent singleword repetitions (E.
Shriberg).?
Developed methods for automatic detection of fragmentsfrom acoustic ues and patterns in the N-Best recognizeroutput using decision trees.
(M. Hendrix)?
Developed a taxonomy for disfluencies and analyzeddistributional properties of 5000 hand-labeled disfluen-cies from the ATIS corpus, the Switchboard corpus, anda third comparison corpus of human-human air travelplanning speech.
Findings include general models forpredicting overall disfluency rates, relative rates of dis-fluency types, and relationships between disfluency typeand type-independent features (e.g.
presence of a wordfragment or editing phrase).
(E. Shriberg)?
Analyzed patterns of occurrences ofword-initial glottal-iTs!ion, finding a high coincidence rate with phrase onsetand prominence marking, which suggests new cues forprosodic pattern detection.
(L. Dilley) \[This work is alsofunded by an NIH grant.\]PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Further efine the break index and prominence r cogni-tion algorithms to improve accuracy on the ATIS corpus,and investigate the use of detected prominence in theSPA ATIS system as a knowledge source for rejecting orcorrecting template marcher output.?
Improve the parse scoring algorithm performance by ex-ploring new syntactic features, and assess performanceon SPA vs. MIT ATIS systems.?
Refine the fragment detection algorithm and extend todetection of other disfluencies by integrating acousticand pattern matching text cues, and evaluate usefulnessin the SPA ATIS system.448
