NIST-ARPA Interagency Agreement:Human Language Technology ProgramDavid S. Paltett, Principal InvestigatorNational Institute of Standards and TechnologyRoom A216, Building 225 (Technology)Gaithersburg, MD 20899PROJECT GOALS1.
To coordinate the design, development and distributionof speech and natural language corpora for the ARPASpoken Language research community, and the use of thesecorpora for technology development and evaluation.2.
To design, coordinate the implementation f,and analyzethe results of performance assessment benchmark tests forARPA's speech recognition and spoken languageunderstanding systems.RECENT RESULTS1.
Participated, with SRI International, in annotation and"bug fixes" for the ATIS MADCOW-colIected corpora.2.
Installed BBN-developed and SRI-developed ATIStechnology at NIST, and used this data to collect test andtraining data using subjects recruited from the Gaithersburg,MD area.3.
Produced speech corpora on recordable and pressed CD-ROM media in collaboration with the Linguistic DataConsortium.4.
Participated in discussions regarding implementation fthe Semantic Evaluation (SemEval) glass box test protocols.5.
Prepared for, and implemented benchmark tests for theWall Street Journal-based Continuous Speech Recognition(WSJ-CSR) corpus using the Hub-and-Spoke t st paradigmand for the 46-city ATIS corpus.2.
Participate in the ATIS SemEval effort, probablyincluding the development of detailed test and reportingprotocols for a "dry run" of an ATIS SemEval test.3.
Collect additional ATIS data at NIST as appropriate.4.
Continue to participate in the development of improvedspeech transcription and scoring procedures, in ATISprinciples of Interpretation documents, and in cooperationwith the annotators at SRI, in "bug-report adjudication".5. Review the use of phonologically-motivated stringalignment software for use in scoring speech recognitionsystem output.6.
Prepare for and implement benchmark tests in the WSJ-CSR and ATIS domains in the November 1994 time frame.7.
Participate in the endeavors of the CCCC and MADCOWcommunities...PLANS1.
Continue to collaborate with the LDC, its data collectionand annotation contractors, and the MADCOW communitywith regard to data collection, annotation, screening andquality control procedures, and (as appropriate), toproduceCD-ROMs for early release within the community of testparticipants.461
