Diderot: T IPSTER Program, Automatic  Data Extractionfrom Text Util izing Semantic AnalysisY.
Wilks, J. Pustejovsky t, J. CowieComput ing  Research Laboratory,  New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM 88003&Computer Science t, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02254PROJECT GOALSThe Computing Research Laboratory at New MexicoState University, in collaboration with Brandeis Univer-sity, was one of four sites selected to develop systemsto extract relevant information automatically from En-glish and Japanese texts.
When we started, neither sitehad been involved in message understanding or informa-tion extraction.
CRL had extensive xperience in multi-lingual natural language processing and in the use of ma-chine readable dictionaries for system building, Brandeishad developed a theory of lexical semantics and prelim-inary methods for deriving this lexical information fromcorpora.
Thus, our approach focused on applying newtechniques to the information extraction task.
In thelast two years we have developed information extractionsoftware for 5 five different subject area/language pairs.The system, Diderot, was to he extendible and the tech-niques used not explicitly tied to the two particular lan-guages, nor to the finance and electronics domains whichare the initial targets of the Tipster project.
To achievethis objective the project had as a primary goal the ex-ploration of the usefulness of machine readable dictionar-ies and corpora s source for the semi-automatic creationof data extraction systems.RECENT RESULTSThe first version of the system was developed in fivemonths and was evaluated in the 4th Message Under-standing Conference (MUC-4) wher e it extracted infor-mation from 200 texts on South American terrorism.
Atthis point the system depended very heavily on statis-tical recognition of relevant sections of text and on theability to recognize semantically significant phrases (e.g.a car bomb) and proper names.
Much of this informationwas derived from the keys.The next version of the system used a semantically basedparser to structure the information found in relevant sen-tences in the text.
The parsing program was derived au-tomatically from semantic patterns.
For English thesewere derived from the Longman Dictionary of Contem-porary English, augmented by corpus information andthese were then hand translated to equivalent Japanesepatterns.
The Japanese patterns were confirmed using aphrasal concordance tool.
A simple reference resolvingmodule was also written.
The system contained largelists of company names and human names derived froma variety of online sources.
This system handled asubsetof the joint venture template definition and was evalu-ated at twelve months into the project.Attention was then focused on the micro-electronics do-main.
Much of the semantic information here was dorived from the extraction rules for the domain.
A singlephrase in micro-electronics can contribute to several dif-ferent parts of the template, to allow for this a new se-mantic unit the factoid was produced by the parser.
Thisproduced multiple copies of a piece of text, each markedwith a key showing how the copy should be routed andprocessed in subsequent s ages of processing.
This rout-ing was performed by a new processing module, whichtransformed the output from the parser.
The statisticalbased recognition of text relevance was used for micro-electronics only, as a much higher percentage of articlesin the corpus were irrelevant.
This system was evaluatedat 18 months.Finally the improvements from micro-electronics werefed back to the joint venture system.
An improved se-mantic unit recognizer was added to the parser.
Thishandles conjunctions of names, possessives and bracket-ing.
An information retrieval style interface to the Stan-dard Industrial Classification Manual was linked into theEnglish system.
The reference resolving mechanism wasextended to handle a richer set of phenomenon (e.g.
plu-ral references).
This version was evaluated at 24 months.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARCRL is participating in Tipster Phase 2.
This will in-volve participation i the development of the architec-ture for the Phase 2 system, user interfaces to the sys-tem, software to handle document markup and multi-lingual information retrieval.
Brandeis are continuingwork on tuning lexical entries using information fromcorpora.464
