THE TIPSTER/SHOGUN PROJECTPaul S. Jacobs, Principal InvestigatorGE Research and Deve lopment  Center1 R iver  Rd.Schenectady,  NY  12301PROJECT GOALSTIPSTER/SHOGUN, part of the ARPA TIPSTER Text (PhaseI) program, was led by GE Corporate Research and Develop-ment, with Carnegie Mellon University and Martin MariettaManagement and Data Systems (formerly GE Aerospace).The project ended at the beginning of 1994, with TIP-STER Phase II expected to begin in March.
The TIP-STER/SHOGUN system is thus the end result of a two-yearresearch effort.
The project's main goals were: (1) to developalgorithms that would advance the state of the art in coverageand accuracy in data extraction, and (2) to demonstrate highperformance and adaptability across languages and domains.The team concentrated itsresearch on the development of amodel of finite-state approximation, within which the perfor-mance of more detailed models of language could be realizedin a simple, efficient framework, and on automated knowl-edge acquisition.
The ability of programs to extract data fromfree text is, in general, imited by the coverage of domain andworld knowledge.
We chose to focus on knowledge acquisi-tion from corpus data, thereby expanding the coverage of thesystem while also helping to tune each configuration.Like other TIPSTER contractors, the TIPSTER/SHOGUNteam ran its system on a series of benchmarks, ending withthe MUC-5 evaluation in August, 1993.
MUC-5 includedtests in four configurations, comprised of two domains (jointventures and micro-electronics) in each of two languages (En-glish and Japanese).
Although many of the research results ofSHOGUN had little or no impact on the benchmarks, MUC-5provided acomprehensive test of system performance.RECENT RESULTSThe finite-state approximation method eveloped under TIP-STER was inspired by earlier work at GE and SRI, along withexperiments near the mid-point of our project, which showedthat tighter control, particularly in parsing, contributed verylittle to text interpretation while greatly inhibiting knowledgeacquisition.
This shift was also influenced by the demands ofJapanese language processing, where our existing knowledgeresources were less refined than in English.The relationship between representation, i.e., the finite-statepatterns in our system, and acquisition, i.e., the method bywhich new knowledge is added, is critical.
In our system,we chose to emphasize the finite-state patterns in part becausethey help to take advantage of the most critical source ofknowledge we have available--the corpus.The corpus-based acquisition strategy used statistical methodsto help identify key phrases and other lexical relations in thecorpus, and to assign these lexical relations to word groupswith similar interpretations.
This approach worked best fortask components hat required large amounts of knowledge,particularly determining the product or service of each jointventure.
We believe this accounts for some of the large dif-ferences in coverage between SHOGUN and other systems.In addition to helping coverage, the corpus-based acquisitionstrategy greatly eased portability across languages.
In mostcases, we did each English component first, then used theEnglish as a way of bootstrapping the Japanese.
For example,we would take each important "pivot" word in English, try toidentify the corresponding "pivot" in Japanese, then use thecorpus to identify the relevant contexts in which that wordoccurred in Japanese.
SHOGUN's accuracy in Japanese wassomewhat higher, on average, than in English.SHOGUN, on average, extracted 37% more information cor-rectly (37% higher ecall) than any other system in each ofthe four MUC-5 configurations.
On average, SHOGUN'sprecision was 13% lower than the next best system.
Recalladvanced 37% on average between the TIPSTER 18-monthevaluation and the MUC-5 test 6 months later, and was 10%higher in the TIPSTER final test han in MUC-4 (which was amuch simpler task).
We are particularly satisfied by the con-sistently improving coverage of our system across languagesand domains.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARAs TIPSTER Phase II begins this year, the emphasis will beon developing an architecture that incorporates some of ourPhase I results into an open framework that promotes deliveryas well as further technical advances, In addition, our researchwill continue to integrate methods from information retrieval(detection) with more detailed language processing strategies.455
