MACROPHONE: AN AMERICAN ENGLISH TELEPHONE SPEECHCORPUSKelsey Taussig and Jared BernsteinSRI InternationalSpe~h Research and Technology ProgramMenlo Park, CA, 94025ABSTRACTMacrophone is a corpus of approximately 200,000 utterances,recorded over the telephone from a broad sample of about 5,000American speakers.
Sponsored by the Linguistic DataConsortium (LDC), it is the first of a series of similar data setsthat will be colected for major languages of the world in acooperative project called Polyphone.
It is designed to providetelephone speech suitable for the development of automaticvoice-interactive telephone services.
In particular, Maerophonecontains training material for applications in transportation,scheduling, ticketing, database access, shopping, and otherautomated telephone interactions.
In addition to beingphonetically balanced, the spoken material refers to times,locations, monetary amounts, and interactive operations.
Theutterances are spoken by respondents into telephone handsetsand recorded irectly in 8-bit mu-law digital form through aT1connection to the usual switched telephone network.
The entirecorpus will be made available by LDC in 1994.
The paperdescribes the design of the linguistic materials in the corpus, andthe process of solicitation, collection, transcription, and filepreparation for the Macrophone corpus.1.
MATERIAL DESIGNThe prospective applications for the Macrophone data partlydetermined the linguistic design of the material and thepopulation of speakers to be recorded.
Examples of theapplications include:?
voice interactive systems to support elephone services likecollect calls, third-party billing, or rate inquiries?
database information retrieval services that might provideschedule or availability information about ransportation rother public services in a limited semantic domain?
systems for ordering theater or stadium tickets, or for makingmedical or other appointments?
systems for manipulating bank accounts or other financialresources.I.I.
GoalThe goal of the Macrophone project was to provide abasic setof common spoken material suitable for training and evaluationof speech recognition systems for telephone-based applications,particularly those that use names, places, times, and numbers in aNorth American context.1.2.
SourcesThe material collected came from pools of prompt texts.Materials were selected from these pools automatically andcombined into a prompting sheet hat is mailed to a person.
In theMacrophone corpus, 45 responses were solicited on each sheet.Of the 45 responses, 34 were read and 11 were spontaneous.
Theprompt material for the spontaneous tterances was designed toelicit particular responses or types or ranges of responses.
Thefollowing describes the read and spontaneous material presented,with examples.Read3 digits trings: (nnn) nnn-nnnn; onnn-nnnn-nnnn; andoneidentification umber3 natural numbers (2with units): 236 years; 4.32 grams; 7000 tons4 dollar amounts: $834; $73.27; $1,975.551 fraction: 1/4, 7/10, 1/162 places: Newark, New Jersey; Paris, France6 application words: account; check; collect; icket; visa2spelledwords:AMBIGUOUS; CLERK; RANCHER1 date: Friday, January l, 19931 time: 11:50; aquarter to twelve; 4:51I name at agency: Susan Crane of the U. S. Postal Service3 name at street address: Larry Garcia, at 133 Elm St.7 sentences (3 TIMIT, 2 WSJ, 2 ATIS)Examples of the sentence types (TIMIT, WSL ATIS) are:Will you please confirm government policy regarding waste removal?The budget isa long way from completion, however.I'd like to buy a coach class ticket for a flight from Columbus toSanJose.For more information on the TIMIT sentences, ee Lamel etal.
(1986); for the WSJ sentence set, see Paul & Baker (1992);and for the ATIS materials, ee Hirschrnan-MADCOW (1992).SpontaneousThere were 11 prompts in the interaction that solicitedspontaneous speech.
Of these, ten were fixed and one wasrotating.
Some of the fixed questions provided additionaldemographic information about the speaker.
Five of the fixedquestions were designed to elicit an answer of yes or no.
Six ofthe fixed questions were printed on each sheet:Are you ready to start7 (y/n)Are you calling from your home phone?
(y/n)Do you speak any language b sides English at home?
(y/n)Please name amajor city in your state.Would you be willing to participate in another study like this one?
(y/n)We would appreciate any comments you may have about thisrecording session.
Please record your comments.The four unpfinted questions were:Are you using a cordless phone?
(y/n)What is today's date?What ime is it now?What is your date of birth?The rotating question was taken from the set:Please say any number f om 1 to 100.Please say any number f om one thousand toone million.What is your house number?Prompt PoolsThe utterances were selected from pools of prompts that weredesigned for this project.
In particular, each pool was designedwith knowledge of the material in the other pools; thus, for27example, "Jones" was in the family-name pool, but was excludedfrom the street-name pool.
The prompt pools were:Place Names - -  All United States and Canadian cities withpopulation over 150,000, and at least two cities in each state inthe United States; all cities worldwide with over 2 millionpeople, and at least one city from most major commercialnations.Personal Names--A gender-balanced list constructed fromthe 600 most common first names and the 600 most common lastnames in the United States.
Some common first and last namesthat are also common words were omitted.Street Names - -  The most frequent 971 names compiledfrom the ZIP+4 directory BODY field by counting block faces.We deleted state names, city names, first and surnames that occurin our other lists, and we deleted the letter names A - Z.Application Words - -  A list of 674 control words selectedfrom existing and imagined telephone applications.2.
DATA FLOW2.1.
OverviewThe data collection process has four distinct steps:?
material distribution,?
telephone signal collection,?
verification and transcription,?
package and delivery of the transcribed utterances.ThE process is shown in Figure 1 and is described in thefoUowing sections.J---IfD .
.
.
.
.
~ Collect Tele- rN Verify & Packagemnoute h~phone Signals ~ Transcribe ~ & DeliverFigtwe 1.
Data Collection Process2.2.
Hardware and Software for PhoneConnectionSRI designed and implemented a set of systems for this datacollection.
Dialogie hardware resident in an IBM-compatible PCprovided a digital connection to 10 telephone lines that areavailable toll-free to callers.
The Dialogie/PC systemconcentrated the data and sent it to the disk of a small SunMicrosystems SPARCstation.
As convenient, the data wasmoved to an archive disk from which the data was archived ontoExabyte tapes and pressed onto CD-ROMs for furthermanipulation.
The labor-intensive part of the Macrophonecorpus development was the transcription and verification of thespoken material.
This was performed with special-purposesoftware running on Sun ELCs.2.3.
Time and Resources UsedThe design and selection of material, set up and monitoring ofthe telephone collection system, the verification/transcription ofthe utterances, and finally the delivery of the resultant files tookabout seven months of professional labor and about eight monthsof semi-skilled labor.
After the linguistic material had beendecided upon, the project yielded 200,000 utterance files withverified transcriptions and demographic headers in five calendarmonths.2.4.
Material DistributionThe data collection process began with the distribution of thematerial to prospective callers.
The material was presented in theform of unique prompting sheets to guide the caller through thetelephone interaction.
The sheets were designed following afixed format, but provide different read material.
Each promptingsheet contained a different set of read material, and each callerreceived adifferent sheet.
A sample prompting sheet is shown inFigure 2.BEFORE YOU C/U.LPlease write y~xr six-dlglt panel idmatiJicatinn nmbc~r in the spree providedin the mld~.o f this page.
(It i~ I~'inted at the top of your cover letter.
)PLEASE C~.L  1-81Xl-XXX-XXXXA eomlmter ~ amwer end ask you the follovdng questinm.~ l"nankyou for ml l~  .f~tr~ o~ reeor~t~ syswm.
Your ~ ic t  will b~ record~ and u~ed\[~ ~sm~and dewlopmmt of speech le~nolo~y, l f  yoa do not w~h to Imv* your yore recorded and real for th~a *purpa~, you may ~ang up now.~h# ~oMon will begin with a few queJgonl, Your anawera provide m with hr~rtant in~ormmion about vocalqmllly cnd ~peec~ pert~rn~.
Aft2 of your r~ Ip~ will b~ kept canfldenKatAre you ram'y to ston?
(yot~ re~me)Are you ea l l~  from your hom~ ph~t?
(your re~te)Do yalt ~ any li~,nSua~* b~Mea E, rq~qLQ al ~or~?
~our reapome)Plmae read your paa el ldent~ion  number which you ~l~d in below:(write your pad fdenll|mllan umber here)Thank you.
You will now be a~.ed m read ea~ of Oie O.ems in tlle rlg,ht-hand cohunn.1.
(a wordJ mblma2.
(axnt~nee) Ceuld you give me a lid ct -n tflemeon fliShm fram Loa Angelea3.
(a le l~onc  number) ~79) 528-58834.
(a place) Ctnwn.
CYaina5.
(a~l~ll~word) M.A.N.
If.
O. S. K. I6.
(a number) 51.611 melaa7.
(anara?)
Dmmy Peyne.
of 251 Ironwood W,y& (a number) 49.
(a smlence) I~ l i t~  policy wm to keep the reut~ opea end prote~ the aettled aree&10.
(a time) 9:2211.
(a word) south12.
(a sm/cnee) Ul h~ that only people with money wm be approved."
she mid.13.
(a dollar ~alolmO $21914.
(anam?)
Pamy Ward of the I R S15.
(= dollar ~tounO $6388.1216, (adam) Tuesdty.
Maraa 20.
\]99017.
(a #ira/c/we) The Sla~e of Lib~ty end Ellis htlend ere within the waters of New york Bay.18.
(a word) flow19.
(a dollar ~nounO $2~.
(a word) leave21.
(a ?~ card number) 1495-1772-151522.
(a am/cnce) The ?~tteway reded abropay at the d-~re.23.
(a name) Leuise Blmlford, of 143 Wexlneld Roed24.
(a place) ~ Jemeiea25.
(a1~aatm) 11826.
(a doUar a~na~O $60027.
(a word) slower28.
(a apelled wotrl) B.R.U.S,H29.
(a name) Dim RidL at 388 Bea~349.
(a ~en/cncc?)
How am I get from the Ta~ma ilport to downtow~31.
(a number) 17~905 kilosrerm32.
(aJen/cne?)
irs all psydlolcgicaL33.
(a word) ~ee27;cart youWouM you be willing to parffc~ate in anainer awdy likJ?
~1~ one?
(your e~aae)W?
would appreciate any ccornmen~ you may haw aboat inb F~contln8 action.Pleaa?
recotd your corm.
(yatr re~e)you wry much for parllcipatin8 in ~ data collection ?~bn.
You may now hang up the/clephone.Figure 2.
Sample Prompting Sheet28Prospective callers were solicited through a market researchfirm that was able to select a sample from their panel of 400,000U.S.
households.
Since no incentive was offered for placing thecall, a conservative estimate of a 25% response rate was used.Twenty thousand (20,000) prompting sheets were mailed,which resulted in 6700 calls, at a 33% response rate.
The sheetswere sent out as six separate mailings of 1000, 2000, 5000, 5000,5000, and 2000 at approximately one-week intervals.Calls typically started coming in the day following a mailingand peaked three days after a mailing.
Although ten lines wereavailable, all ten were never activated at once.
The mailings andthe response rate are shown in Figure 3.
Each vertical bar showsthe date and the number of prompting sheets in a mailing, and thelower line shows the number of calls received per day.TW T F SSM TWT F 8 t lMTW T F S~BMTWT F 8SMTWT F8  8MTWT F SI.---Weekl,..J I ,~Week2-.
J  I.--=.Week3,~l L,._Week4.--J I - -=.W~k5==--I L==Week6Figure 3.
Mailings and ResponsesThe targetpopulation was specified to consist of equalnumbers of males and females between the ages of 10 and 80,balanced between ages 20 and 60 and fewer in the 10-19 and 61-80 age groups.
The target population was also specified to begengraphieally balanced according to the latest census figures.The sample population was selected by the market research firmto compensate for different expected response rates.
Pastexperience indicated higher expected response from femalesthan from males, lower response rates among young people,higher esponse rates among elderly people, and lower responserates from people with household incomes above about $40,000.Figure 4 shows the mailings sent out (upper curve) and theresponses received (lower curve) as a function of age.
The lowresponse rate among people aged 20-30 is due to income skew inthe mailing sample, and partly due to low response rates amongthe people in that 20-30 age group who received sheets.s .
500 - " ? "
\[ \[4oo - -  .
.
,  = I300 ~ ~ ,  "~200 --100O,,'o 9o 3'0 ,'0 5'0 8'0AgeFigure 4.
Response as a Function of Age2.5.
Telephone Signal CollectionThe recipients of the prompting sheets were instructed to calla toll-free 1-800 number which connected them to one of 10digital telephone lines set up to receive calls.
All data wasrecorded irectly from T1 digital telephone lines in 8-bit mu-lawformat using Dialogic hardware installed in an IBM-compatiblePC.
The PC, which operated under Interactive UNIX, was a 33MHz 386 with 16 MBytes of RAM.
Each response was writtenas a separate file to one of two 2-GByte disks of a SunSparestation ELC.
A completed call resulted in about 2 MBytesof data.
The data collection system is shown in Figure 5.10 digRal T1 linesI .
.
.
.
I (8-bit pAaw)-.
I ~ k,~\[o,=oo,c .
.
.
.
.
.
*1  ELC I \386PC I Ethem~Figure 5.
Data Collection SystemSoftware was written to play out prerecorded prompts andrecord the interaction.
As a half duplex system, the datacollection system was only capable of either playing out aprompt or recording a response.
Care was taken to truncate theend of the prompting text in an attempt to keep callers fromresponding before the system began recording.
It was necessaryto remove the written text from the printed sheets for a few of theprompts to force the participant to listen to the entire promptbefore responding.An average telephone call took about six minutes and resultedin about four minutes of collected speech (including two secondsof silence at the end of each utterance).
Approximately one thirdof the coLlected data was silence.2.6.
Verification and TranscriptionVerification of the read responses and transcription of thespontaneous responses was performed by temporary workersusing SRI software written for Sun ELC computers.The data verification occurred in two steps.
Since each of the20,000 sheets was unique, it was necessary to supply a uniquesheet identifier to bring up the default transcription for the read29material.
The sheet identifier was in the form of a 10-digittelephone number and was transcribed in a first pass along withthree other responses.
These items were then propagated to theheaders of all 45 speech files produced from that call.
In additionto the demographic responses, a gender indication was included(decision made by the transcriber).
The demographicinformation items are responses to the following prompts:Do you speak any language besides English at home?Are you using a cordless phone?What is your date of birth?The second step of data verification involved providing anorthographic transcription of each utterance.
Each utterancewaveform was displayed on the transcriber's console and playedthrough the computer's audio port.
Default transcriptions wereprovided for read data, previously transcribed demographic ,d, ata,and predictable responses to spontaneous questions uch as'  Areyou :ready to start?
", "What is today's date?
", "Would you bewilling to participate in another study like this one?
".Utterance files which did not contain any speech or containedtruncated speech (approximately 7.5% of the total) werediscarded.
Utterances which were difficult to transcribe - -  thosecontaining word fragments, mispronunciations, and otherdisflueneies - -  were set aside for a linguist to review.
All otherutterances were transcribed according to what was said; thetranscriptions also included markings for non-speech events uchas background noise, background speech, line noise, mouthnoise, and verbal hesitations.2.7.
Package and Del iveryEach file was written as 8-bit mu-law with a SPHERE header.The headers contain information about the data as well asdemographic nformation about the caller.
All data files werewritten to Exabyte tape and shipped to LDC, where the files willbe pressed onto CD-ROMs and made available to members ofthe Linguistic Data Consortium.3.
CONCLUSIONThe Maerophone database collection project demonstratesthat a large corpus of telephone speech cart be solicited,collected, and prepared for use within a specified time and effort.The Macrophone data should be available from the LinguisticData Consortium by summer of 1994.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work was supported by the Linguistic Data Consortium.Opinions, findings, conclusions and recommendations expressedin this material are those of the authors and do not necessarilyreflect he views of the Linguistic Data Consortium.REFERENCES1.
L .H i rschman-MADCOW (1992): "Mu, lt i-Site DataCollection for a Spoken Language Corpus, ' Prec.
DARPASpeech and Natural Language Workshbp, M.Mareus (ed.
),Morgan Kaufman.
pp.
7-I4.2.
L.Lamel, R. Kassel & S.Seneff (1986): "Speech DatabaseDevelopment: Design and Analysis or me Acousfic-rnonetieCorpus," Prec.
DARPA Speech Recognition Worxsnop,February 1986, pp.
100-109.3.
D.Paul & J.Baker (1992): "T,h,e Design for the Wall StreetJournal-based CSR Corpus, '  Prec.
DARPA Speech andNatural Language Workshop, M.Mareus (ed.
), MorganKaufman.
pp.
35T-362.4.
B.Wheafley & J.Pieone (1991) "Voice Across America,"Digital Signal Processing, 1 pp.
45-63.30
