Segment-Based Acoustic Modelsfor Continuous Speech RecognitionMari Ostendorf J. Robin RohlicekPrincipal InvestigatorsBoston University BBN Inc.Boston, MA 02215 Cambridge, MA 02138PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project is to develop improved statistical mod-els for speaker-independent r cognition of continuous speech,together with efficient search algorithms appropriate for usewith these models.
The current work on acoustic modeling isfocussed on: stochastic, segment-based models that capturethe time correlation of a sequence of observations (featurevectors) that correspond to a phoneme; hierarchical stochas-tic models that capture higher level intra-utterance orrelation;and multi-pass search algorithms for implementing these morecomplex models.
In addition, we have extended the effort onmodels of high order statistical dependence to language mod-eling.
This research as been jointly sponsored by ARPA andNSF under NSF grant IRI-8902124 and by ARPA and ONRunder ONR grant N00014-92-J-1778.RECENT RESULTSRecent results on this project are summarized below withnames of the students primarily responsible for the work in-dicated in parentheses.?
Ported the BU recognition system to the Wall Street Jour-nal (WSJ) task and Switchboard task, obtaining resultssimilar to H/VIM systems on those tasks.
Also imple-mented several software changes to handle large vocab-ularies and allow for larger N-best lists by using moreefficient score caching, as well as to accommodate thefull amount of training data available.
(F. Richardson, S.Tibrewal, A. Kannan)?
Continued investigation of mixture distribution model-ing at both the segment and frame levels, shifting ourfocus primarily to "untied" segmental mixture systems.We have established baseline results and investigatedvarious parameter allocation choices for these mod-els in experiments on the Resource Management task.For context-independent models, performance is foundto improve over uni-modal and fled-mixture systems,through combining segmental nd frame-level mixtures.Further work on initialization is needed for estimatingcontext-dependent models.
(O. Kimball)449Implemented a new duration model that uses speaking-rate adapted parameters.Developed a sentence-level mixture n-gram languagemodel to handle topic-related language dynamics, andevaluated recognition performance with this model onthe 5k WSJ task in the N-best re, scoring framework, ob-taining a slight improvement over standard trigrams.
(R.Iyer)Developed the theoretical framework for an automaticmapping of distributions to arbitrary subsets of avariable-length segment feature matrix, as an alterna-tive to the linear-time frame mapping currently used inthe SSM.Developed the theoretical framework for a hierarchicalmodel of intra-utterance observation correlation.Developed a new algorithm for fast search of a word lat-tice for multi-pass recognition scoring.
(F. Richardson)PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARImplement and evaluate the hierarchical stochasticmodel of intra-utterance d pendencies, first in TIM1Tclassification and latex in the WSJ system ff initial ex-periments are successful.Investigate unsupervised a aptation i the WSJ task do-main.Investigate algorithms to improve recognition accuracyfor telephone speech.Assess accuracy/speed trade-offs for different latticesearch algorithms for the WSJ task.Extend work in mixture language modeling to capturemore language dynamics and/or task domain changethrough adaptation.
