SPEECH AND HUMANLANGUAGE TECHNOLOGYTHE NAVAL RESEARCHLABORATORYATHelen M. Gigley, Ph.D.Head, Human Computer Interaction LaboratoryNaval Research LaboratoryCODE 5530Washington, D.C. 20375-5337ABSTRACTFollowing a brief introduction to the Naval ResearchLaboratory (NRL), specific on-going research in speechand human language technology will be presented.
Areasof research fall across two laboratories in the InformationTechnology Division, the Human Computer InteractionLaboratory (HCI) and the Navy Center for AppliedResearch in Artificial Intelligence (NCARAI).
Speechresearch focuses on narrowband algorithm developmentand uses human based intelligibility to evaluate success.Demonstrations of results will be played.
Navy has been aprominent participant in evaluation of narrowband speech.Current efforts on human-human communicationevaluation will provide a basis for new approaches tomulti-mode interactions which include speech interfaces.Finally, a video of on-going efforts at NCARAI on theEUCALYPTUS system which include graphics and spokenlanguage interaction will be shown.1.
WHAT IS NRL?NRL is the Departmefit o f  the Navy's corporate researchlaboratory.
It's mission is to " conduct a broadly basedmultidisciplinary program of scientific research andadv~inced technological development directed towardmaritime applications of new and improved materials,techniques, equipment, systems, and ocean, atmospheric,and space sciences and related technologies."
NRL reportsto the Chief of Naval Research at the Office of NavalResearch.The Laboratory began in 1923 based on a vision ofThomas Edison.
It presently has both a military andcivilian director.
There are 4 Laboratories and 17Divisions and 14 research sites outside the WashingtonD.C.
area.
The staff is comprised of approximately 900Ph.D.s, 500 Master's degree holders and 700 bachelor'sdegree holders.
Each year the Lab produces a significantnumber of refereed journal conference publications.The Information Technology Division houses the twolaboratories whose work will be reported in the remainderof this paper, the HCI Laboratory and the NCARAILaboratory.
The work in the HCI Lab includes: speechprocessing within narrowband capabilities and evaluationmethods for speech and other interactive systems.
Theeffort at NCARAI in human language technology focuseson integrating speech with graphical or other modalityinterfaces.
A current effort is underway to transition oneof the ARPA speech technology systems to the on-goingwork in EUCALYPTUS.1.1 Speech Technology in HCIThe speech technology group in the HCI Lab focuses onalgorithmic development which is reaching towardcommunication of humanly intelligible speech at 600 bpsCurrent algorithms at 1200 bps are quite successful.
Themethod relies on linear predictive coding (LPC) of thespeech signal to LPC coefficients which can beindependently manipulated to enhance aspects of the"signal under differing conditions.
Changes in piwh withall else constant and in rate of speech by slowing orspeeding the presentation of the entire set of coefficientsare found to be equally intelligible and without distortionsthat interfere with intelligibility.
A sample of aconversation at different communication bandwidthsfurther demonstrates the role of the technology.
Thisgroup has recently developed, using an off-the-shelfMacintosh, a non-real-time terminal which can transmitboth speech and images (including annotation) within2400 bps.
A second terminal is being developed totransmit voice and still images simultaneously but real-time.1.2 Evaluation Methods andTechnology for Speech and InteractionThe Navy has taken an active part in evaluation of speechsystems by participation i  the Digital Voice Consortiumsince its inception in 1972.
The Consortium coordinatesspeech efforts across DoD and insures interoperability ofsystems as well as attempts to eliminate duplication ofefforts.
The evaluation group in the HCI Lab hascontributed significantly to the test set used in evaluatingthe intelligibility of narrowband speech.A new project which spans both the HCI Lab and theNACRE Lab in human machine dialogue has recentlyshifted the focus to development of new evaluationmethods to study human-human i teractions as a basis fordeveloping new metaphors for human machine interaction.Using AEGIS team training data, issues of speech turntaking during decision making and length of speech andcounts of phrases have been studied.
This group providesexpert consulting on evaluation for all levels ofinteractive techniques which include speech and humanlanguage uses.1.3 Human Language Technology atNCARAIThe Interactive Systems Group at NCARAI has recentlyapplied a SSI speech recognizer as input to the naturallanguage interface which was added to a functioninginteractive decision support tool called KOALAS.
Thenatural input, EUCALYPTUS, assumes poken languageinputs (not just key phrases) are available.
The300interactions with the system use existing graphicalsemantics of the domain and integrate the languagecapability to refer to objects which are graphicallypresented.
There is no extension to the graphical interface.Only domain relevant semantics are available to thelanguage processor.
The system achieves an integratedgraphics I natural anguage interaction which can be usedseparately or in combination.
Human Languagecapabilities such as ellipsis, deixis, and anaphoraresolution have been implemented which allow cross-modal and contextually determined reference.
A video ofthe working system documents the functionality.2.
POINTS OF CONTACTThe Section Heads for each of the research areas presentedare as follows:Speech TechnologyGeorge Kang, HCI Lab, CODE 5531emall: kang @itd.nrl.navy.mil1.4 On-going Experiment in ARPASpeech Technology TransitionWithin the HCI Lab work is currently underway to port theSphinx H system to a SPARC 10.
It will then replace thecurrent EUCALYPTUS front end processor.
This is asimple goal as we already have a working speechcapability for the domain and only intend to substitute one"black-box" for another.
We are discovering hiddenconstraints in the porting across hardware platforms whichneed to be handled explicitly if these systems are tobecome readily available to the computing public.
This is?
an experiment in progress with only one of the systems.Several others will be used in similar fashion as a means ofdeveloping transition methods to integrate the results intoreal military applications.
Whatever is discovered willcontribute to the successful transition to dual-use areas aswell.Evaluation Methods and TechnologyDr.
As~id Schmidt-Nielsen, HCI Lab, CODE 5532email: schmidtu @itd.nrl.navy.milInteractive SystemsElaine Marsh, NCARAI, CODE 5512email: marsh@ aic.nrl.navy.milACKNOWLEDGMENTThe research described is supported by the Office of NavalResearch within 6.l and 6.2 Block grants to the NavalResearch Laboratory HCI and NCARAI Laboratories andby SPAWAR.301
