Spoken Language Recognition and UnderstandingVictor ZueSpoken Language Systems GroupLaboratory for Computer  ScienceMassachusetts Institute of TechnologyCambridge,  Massachusetts 021391.
PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this research is to develop and demonstratespoken language technology in support of interactiveproblem solving.
The MIT spoken language system com-bines; SUMMIT, a segment-based speech recognition sys-tem, and TINA, a probabilistic natural anguage system,to achieve speech understanding.
The system acceptscontinuous peech input and handles multiple speakerswithout explicit speaker enrollment.
It engages in in-teractive dialogue with the user, providing output inthe form of tabular and graphical displays, as well asspoken and written responses.
We have demonstratedthe system on several applications, including air travelplanning and urban navigation/exploration; it has alsobeen ported to several languages, including Japanese andFrench.2.
RECENT RESULTS?
Improved Recognit ion and Understanding:Reduced word error rate by over 50% from lastyear (while using a larger vocabulary with higherperplexity) through the use of improved acoustic-phonetic alignment and pronunciation modelling;reduced spoken language understanding error rateby over 25% from last year (while using a larger ap-plication back-end) by making use of stable corpusof annotated data.?
On-Line Travel Planning: Developed PEGASUS,an interactive spoken language interface for on-line travel planning connected to American Airlines'EAASY SABRE system.?
Multi - l ingual SLS: Extended the bilingual VOY-AGER system to other languages including Italian,French, and German.
The system uses a single se-mantic frame to capture the meaning irrespectiveof the language, and the langauge generation com-ponent has also been unified and enhanced.
In ad-dition, a segment-based language identification ap-proach has been formulated and implemented.
Theresulting system, when evaluated on the OGI Multi-460Language Telephone Speech Corpus, achieved anidentification rate of 55.8%.Phonological  Parsing for Let ter /Sound Gen-eration: Developed and implemented a frameworkfor bi-directional letter/sound generation, using aversion of our probabilistic natural anguage system,TINA.
The system can parse nearly 95% of unseenwords, and achieved word accuracies of 71.8% and55.8% for letter-to-sound and sound-to-letter gener-ation on the parsable words.Tranformat ion -Based ,  Error-Dr iven Learn-ing: Refined and extended this technique for partof speech tagging, and achieved accuracies of 97.2%with 267 simple non-stochastic rules.HLT Communi ty  Service: Collected and dis-tributed more than 1400 ATIS-3 sentences from 58subjects.
Distributed our POS tagger to over 150sites.
Vice-Chair of 1994 HLT workshop.3.
FUTURE PLANSTechnology Development:  Continue to improvespeech recognition and language understandingtechnologies for large vocabulary spoken langaugesystems.
Areas of research include acoustic mod-elling, lexical access, adaptation techniques, SR/NLintegration strategies, dialogue modelling, gram-mar induction, multilingual porting (e.g., Spanishand Mandarin), and discovery/learning of unknownwords.System Development:  Explore research issueswithin the context of developing a system that en-ables users to access and manipulate various (real)sources of information using spoken input in orderto solve specific tasks.
Initial focus will be in thetravel domain, which include urban navigation, airtravel planning, and weather information.
