RESEARCH IN  NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSINGA.
Joshi, M. Marcus, M. Steedman, B. WebberDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104PROJECT GOALSThe main objective is to develop robust methods for theunderstanding and generation of both written and spo-ken human language, including but not limited to En-glish.
Penn is pursuing development of: (1) New mathe-matical and computational frameworks which are highlyconstrained, yet adequate to allow a simple, concise de-scription of complex linguistic phenomena.
These newframeworks are tested by the explicit encoding withineach framework of a wide range of phenomena across adiverse set of human languages.
(2) Both statistical andsymbolic learning methods which automatically extractand effectively utilize the implicit linguistic knowledgein the Penn Treebank and the corpora of the LinguisticData Consortium.
These techniques have been testedagainst he performance of the best current methods.RECENT RESULTS?
In a lexicalized grammar such as the lexicalized tree-adjoining rammar (LTAG), each lexical item is as-sociated with one or more elementary trees (struc-tures), called supevtags.
We have developed tech-niques to eliminate or substantially reduce the su-pertag assignment ambiguity by using local lexicaldependencies and their distribution, prior to pars-ing.
After this step only explicit indication of sub-stitutions and adjoinings must be indicated to com-plete parsing.
Preliminary experiments on shortfragments show a success rate of 88%, with experi-ments continuing on full sentences from WS3 mate-rial.?
The Information-Based Intonation Synthesis (IBIS)spoken reply system has been extended by a richersemantics for the assignment of stress on the basisof contrast in the domain of discourse.
Synthesis ofspoken responses as speech waves bearing an intona-tion contour appropriate to the context of utterancehas thereby been considerably improved.?
A weakly supervised symbolic learning algorithmcalled Error Based Transformation Learning hasbeen developed that matches or beats the perfor-mance of the best standard methods for a range ofkey language analysis tasks.
This method has alsobeen used for part of speech tagging for several lan-guages other than English with very good results.A new algorithm for word-sense determination per-forms as least as well as existing algorithms, whileonly using only a window of five words around thetarget word, as opposed to 100 words for these ex-isting methods.PLANSApply part-of-speech disambiguation strategies tothe disambiguation of lexical category assignm-ments words in a combinatory categorial parser.Port the IBIS spoken response generator to thelarger domain involved in the task of critiquing ofMedical Diagnosis by an expert system.Explore statistical morphology induction, lexi-cal disambiguation, and language modeling withstochastic dependency grammars.Test the XTAG system on a corpus and build a TAGparsed corpus to serve as the basis for statisticalexperiments with the TAG grammar and parser.Contribute to a model of limited processing for dis-course, using LDC corpora s the basis for an empir-ical analysis of bottom-up cues to discourse struc-ture, such as variation in the forms of referringexpressions, and prosodic marking by topline andbaseline variation.Develop part-of-speech taggers and morphologicallearners for a range of languages other than English.Develop the 'strategic' or discourse-planning com-ponent of the spoken reply system.476
