NATURAL LANGUAGE PLANNING DIALOGUE FOR INTERACTIVEJames F. Allen and Len SchubertDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of RochesterRochester, NY 14627PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project is to develop the underlyingtechnologies for spoken dialogue systems to serve ashighly interactive interfaces to AI-based reasoningsystems.
Most current speech and natural languageprojects are focusing on applications that involve onlylimited dialog, and little intelligent reasoning, such asdata-base query and form-filling applications.
But thegreat promise for speech and natural language interfaces iin providing useful interfaces to complex reasoningsystems uch as planning systems and expert systems.The techniques developed are being incorporated into anintegrated dialog system set in a simulated transportationdomain (the TRASINS domain).
The user interactivelydevelops aplan in a mixed-initiative interaction with thesystem.
The development of the system is supported by acorpus of person-person spoken dialogs collected in theTRAINS domain.
This corpus has been used for a widerange of analyses, including the detection of speechrepairs, the analysis of discourse structure, and thedevelopment of a grammar and parser for interactivespoken dialog.
The system currently works fromkeyboard input based on transcripts, but we are in theprocess of adding a speech recognizer.RECENT RESULTS1) We developed a stochastic technique for detecting andrealizing speech repairs in spoken dialog.
The techniqueis designed to work from the words output by a speechrecognizer, and the only assumption made beyond currentstate of the art is the recognition of word fragments.Using stochastic methods with no prosodic informationor parser, we are able to detect and correctly realize over90% of the repairs in our corpus.
See paper in the HLTproceeding for details.2) We have designed a new discourse reasoner thatmaintains what each agent believes, what each agent hassuggested about he plan, and what parts of the plan havebeen agreed on so far.
The module can filter possiblespeech act interpretations u ing knowledge of the agents'beliefs and knowledge of the current plan, and works inconjunction with a domain reasoner that performs theplan reasoning tasks in the TRAINS world.3) We have constructed a grammar (syntax and semantics)that covers over 500 utterances in the TRAINS domain,including several full dialogues.
The system can adaptlexical entries from the Alvey lexicon, providing accessto the syntactic features of over 6000 words.
We havedeveloped a stochastically-driven chart parser thatidentifies the correct parse 70% of the time in ourpreliminary tests.4) We have implemented a system that, when presentedwith a word it has never seen before, creates anew lexicalentry with meaning postulates that represent a partialsemantic definition.
The algorithm uses a model of theword formation process (e.g., affixation, argumentstructure alternations, compounding etc.)
to identify thesyntactic lass an approximate s mantic definition.5) We have collected an additional 8 hours of TRAINSdialogs, and have produced an word-aligned transcriptionand annotated all the repairs (approx.
1000 instances).This corpus has been used as the basis for our system todetect and realize repairs, and to develop our grammar andtrain the parser.PLANS FOR THE COMINGYEARThe most significant goal for the coming year is to add aspeech recognition front-end to the TRAINS system.This will allow us to more realistically explore issues inparsing actual dialog.
One of the first tasks to face willbe to develop some techniques for utterancesegmentation.
I  a dialog, a speaker often makes ~everalseparate utterances within a single turn, and it is crucialfor the system to recognize the utterance boundaries.
Weexpect o start exploring some simple prosodic cues toutterance boundary locations, as well as using stochasticand syntactic onstraints.We plan to collect additional dialogues in the TRAINSdomain, and to continuing the annotation of the existingcorpus.
This year we intended to do an extensiveannotation of the referring phrases in the corpus, and toannotate prosodic features using the ToBi annotationscheme.A longer term concern is robustness.
The TRAINSsystem can handle some reasonably size dialoguescontaining twenty or so turns.
It is very fragile, however,because there are many different levels of analysis, eachcovering a slightly different range of phenomena.
One ofthe central tasks for the coming year is to try to identifythe design decisions that make the system brittle and toredesign the system in order to improve robustness.477
