THE PENN TREEBANK:  ANNOTATING PREDICATEARGUMENT STRUCTUREMitchell Marcus, Grace Kim, Mary Ann Marcinkiewicz,Robert MacIntyre, Ann Bies, Mark Ferguson, Karen Katz, Britta SchasbergerDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA, USAABSTRACTThe Penn Treebank has recently implemented a new syn-tactic annotation scheme, designed to highlight aspects ofpredicate-argument structure.
This paper discusses theimplementation of crucial aspects of this new annotationscheme.
It incorporates a more consistent treatment of awide range of grammatical phenomena, provides aset of coin-dexed null elements in what can be thought of as "underly-ing" position for phenomena such as wh-movement, passive,and the subjects of infinitival constructions, provides omenon-context free annotational mechanism to allow the struc-ture of discontinuous constituents o be easily recovered, andallows for a clear, concise tagging system for some semanticroles.1.
INTRODUCTIONDuring the first phase of the The Penn Treebank project\[10\], ending in December 1992, 4.5 million words of text weretagged for part-of-speech, with about two-thirds of this ma-terial also annotated with a skeletal syntactic bracketing.
Allof this material has been hand corrected after processing byautomatic tools.
The largest component of the corpus con-sists of materials from the Dow-Jones News Service; over 1.6million words of this material has been hand parsed, with anadditional 1 million words tagged for part of speech.
Alsoincluded is a skeletally parsed version of the Brown corpus,the classic million word balanced corpus of American English\[5, 6\].
hand-retagged using the Penn Treebank tagset.The level of syntactic analysis annotated uring this phaseof this project was an extended and somewhat modified formof the skeletal analysis which has been produced by the tree-banking effort in Lancaster, England \[7\].
The released mate-rials in the current Penn Treebank, although still in very pre-liminary form, have been widely distributed, both directly byus, on the ACL/DCI CD-ROM, and now on CD-ROM by theLinguistic Data Consortium; it has been used for purposesranging from serving as a gold-standard for parser testing toserving as a basis for the induction of stochastic grammarsto serving as a basis for quick lexicon induction.Many users of the Penn Treebank now want forms of an-notation richer than provided by the project's first phase,as well as an increase in the consistency of the preliminarycorpus.
Some would also like a less skeletal form of anno-tation, expanding the essentially context-free analysis of thecurrent treebank to indicate non-contiguous structures anddependencies.
Most crucially, there is a strong sense that theTreebank could be of much more use if it explicitly providedsome form of predicate-argument structure.
The desired levelof representation would make explicit at least the logical sub-ject and logical object of the verb, and indicate, at least inclear cases, how subconstituents are semantically related totheir predicates.
Such a representation could serve as botha starting point for the kinds of SEMEVAL representationsnow being discussed as a basis for evaluation of human lan-guage technology within the ARPA HLT program, and as abasis for "glass box" evaluation of parsing technology.The ongoing effort \[1\] to develop a standard objectivemethodology to compare parser outputs across widely diver-gent grammatical frameworks has now resulted in a widelysupported standard for parser comparison.
On the otherhand, many existing parsers cannot be evaluated by thismetric because they directly produce a level of representa-tion closer to predicate-argument structure than to classicalsurface grammatical nalysis.
Hand-in-hand with this limi-tation of the existing Penn Treebank for parser testing is aparallel imitation for automatic methods for parser trainingfor parsers based on deeper epresentations.
There is also aproblem of maintaining consistency with the fairly small (lessthan 100 page) style book used in the the first phase of theproject.2.
A NEW ANNOTATION SCHEMEWe have recently completed a detailed style-book for this newlevel of analysis, with consensus across annotators about theparticulars of the analysis.
This project has taken abouteight months of ten-hour a week effort across a significantsubset of all the personnel of the Penn Treebank.
Such astylebook, much larger, and much more fully specified thanour initial stylebook, is a prerequisite for high levels of inter-annotator agreement.
It is our hope that such a stylebookwill also alleviate much of the need for extensive cross-talkbetween annotators during the annotation task, thereby in-creasing throughput as well.
To ensure that the rules of thisnew stylebook remain in force, we are now giving annotatorsabout 10% overlapped material to evaluate inter-annotatorconsistency throughout this new project.We have now begun to annotate this level of structure ditingthe present Penn Treebank; we intend to automatically ex-tract a bank of predicate-argument structures intended at thevery least for parser evaluation from the resulting annotatedcorpus.The remainder of this paper will discuss the implementationof each of four crucial aspects of the new annotation scheme,114as well as notational devices to allow predicate-argumentstructure to be recovered in the face of conjoined struc-ture involving gapping, where redundant syntactic structurewithin a conjoined structure is deleted.
In particular, thenew scheme:1.
Incorporates a consistent treatment of related grammat-ical phenomena.
The issue here is not that the repre-sentation be "correct" given some theoretical analysisor other, but merely that instances of what are descrip-tively the same phenomenon be represented similarly.In particular, the notation should make it easy to auto-matically recover predicate-argument structure.2.
Provides a set of null elements in what can be thoughtof as "underlying" position for phenomena such as wh-movement, passive, and the subjects of infinitival con-structions.
These null elements must be co-indexed withthe appropriate l xical material.3.
Provides ome non-context free annotational mechanismto allow the structure of discontinuous constituents obe easily recovered.4.
Allows for a clear, concise distinction between verbarguments and adjuncts where such distinctions areclear, with some easy-to-use notational device to indi-cate where such a distinction is somewhat murky.Our first step, just now complete, has been to produce a de-tailed style-book for this new level of analysis, with consensusacross annotators about the particulars of the analysis.
Thisproject has taken about eight months of ten-hour a weekeffort across a significant subset of all the personnel of thePenn Treebank.
It has become clear during the first stageof the project that a much larger, much more fully speci-fied stylebook than our initial stylebook is a prerequisite forhigh levels of inter-annotator agreement.
It is our hope thatsuch a stylebook will also alleviate much of the need for ex-tensive cross-talk between annotators during the annotationtask, thereby increasing throughput as well.
To ensure thatthe rules of this new stylebook remain in force, we intend togive annotators about 10% overlapped material to evaluateinter-annotator consistency throughout this new project.The remainder of this paper discusses the implementationof each of the four points above, as well as notational de-vices to allow predicate-argument structure to be recoveredin the face of conjoined structure involving gapping, whereredundant syntactic structure within a conjoined structure isdeleted.3.
CONSISTENT GRAMMATICALANALYSESThe current reebank materials uffer from the fact that dif-fering annotation regimes are used across differing syntacticcategories.
To allow easy automatic extraction of predicate-argument structure in particular, these differing analysesmust be unified.
In the original annotation scheme, adjectivephrases that serve as sentential predicates have a differentstructure than VPs, causing sentential adverbs which occurafter auxiliaries introducing the ADJP to attach under VP,while sentential dverbs occurring after auxiliaries introduc-ing VPs occur under S. In the current reebank, copular beis treated as a main verb, with predicate adjective or prepo-sitional phrases treated as complements to that verb.In the new stylebook, the predicate is either the lowest (right-most branching) VP or the phrasal structure immediatelyunder copular BE.
In cases when the predicate cannot beidentified by those criteria (e.g.
in "small clauses" and someinversion structures), the predicate phrase is tagged -PRD(PReDicate).
(s (NP-SBJ I)(VP consider(S (I~P-SBJ Kris)(NP-PRD a fool))))(SQ Was(NP-SBJ he)(ADVP-TMP ever)(ADJP-PRD successfu l )?
)Note that the surface subject is always tagged -SBJ (SuB-Ject), even though this is usually redundant because thesubject can be recognized purely structurally.
The -TMPtag here marks time (TeMPoral) phrases.
Our use of "smallclauses" follows one simple rule:, every S maps into a singlepredication, so here the predicate-argument structure wouldbe something likeconsider(I, fool(Kris)).4.
ARGUMENT-ADJUNCTSTRUCTUREIn a well developed predicate-argument scheme, it wouldseem desirable to label each argument of a predicate with anappropriate semantic label to identify its role with respect othat predicate.
It would also seem desirable to distinguishbetween the arguments of a predicate, and adjuncts of thepredication.
Unfortunately, while it is easy to distinguisharguments and adjuncts in simple cases, it turns out to bevery difficult to consistently distinguish these two categoriesfor many verbs in actual contexts.
It also turns out to bevery difficult to determine a set of underlying semantic rolesthat holds up in the face of a few paragraphs of text.
Inour new annotation scheme, we have tried to come up witha middle ground which allows annotation of those distinc-tions that seem to hold up across a wide body of material.After many attempts to find a reliable test to distinguishbetween arguments and adjuncts, we have abandoned struc-turally marking this difference.
Instead, we now label a smallset of clearly distinguishable roles, building upon syntacticdistinctions only when the semantic intuitions are clear cut.Getting annotators to consistently apply even the small setof distinctions we will discuss here is fairly difficult.In the earlier corpus annotation scheme, We originally usedonly standard syntactic labels (e.g.
NP, ADVP, PP, etc.
)115Tag-HLN-LST-TTL-CLF-NOM-ADV-LGS-PRD-SBJ-TPC-CLR-VOC-DIR-LOC-MNR-PRP-TMPMarks:Text Categoriesheadlines and datelineslist markerstitlesGrammatical Functionstrue cleftsnon NPs that function as NPsclausal and NP adverbialslogical subjects in passivesnon VP predicatessurface subjecttopicalized and fronted constituentsclosely related - see textSemantic Rolesvocativesdirection & trajectorylocationmannerpurpose and reasontemporal phrasesFigure I: Functional Tagsfor our constituents - in other words, every bracket had justone label.
The limitations of this became apparent when aword belonging to one syntactic ategory is used for anotherhnct ion or when it plays a role which we want to be able toidentify easily.
In the present scheme, each constituent has atleast one label but as many as four tags, including numericalindices.
We have adopted the set of functional tags shown inFigure 2 for use within the current annotation scheme.
NPsand Ss which are clearly arguments of the verb are unmarkedby any tag.
We allow an open class of other cases that in-dividual annotators feel strongly should be part of the VP.These cases are tagged as -CLR (for CLosely Relatcd); theyaxe to be semantically analyzed as adjuncts.
This class isan experiment in the current tagging; constituents marked-CLR typically correspond to Quirk et als \[11\] class of pred-ication adjuncts.
At the moment, we distinguish a handfulof semantic roles: direction, location, manner, purpose, andtime, as well as the syntactic roles of surface subject, logi-cal subject, and (implicit in the syntactic structure) first andsecond verbal objects.5.
NULL  ELEMENTSOne important way in which the level of annotation of thecurrent Penn Treebank exceeds that of the Lancaster projectis that we have annotated nun elements in a wide range ofcases.
In the new annotation scheme, we co-index these nullelements with the lexical material for which the null elementstands.
The current scheme happens to use two symbols fornull elements: *T*, which marks WH-movement  and topical-ization, and * which is used for all other null elements, butthis distinction is not very important.
Co-indexing of nullelements is done by suffixing an integer to non-terminal cate-gories (e.g~ NP-10, VP-25).
This integer serves as an id num-ber for the constituent.
A null element itself is followed by theid number of the constituent with which it is co-indexed.
Weuse SBARQ to mark WH-questions, and SQ to mark aux-iliaxy inverted structures.
We use the WH-prefixed labels,WHNP, WHADVP, WHPP, etc., only when there is WH-movement; they always leave a co-indexed trace.
Crucially,the predicate argument structure can be recovered by simplyreplacing the null element with the lexical material that it isco-indexed with:(SBARQ (NHNP-1What)(sQ is(NP-SB3 Tim)(VP eating(~P .Z,-i)))Z)Predicate Argument Structure:eat(Tim, what)In passives, the surface subject is tagged -SBJ, a passive traceis inserted after the verb, indicated by (NP *), and co-indexedto the surface subject (i.e.
logical object).
The logical sub-ject by-phrase, if present, is a child of VP, and is tagged-LGS (LoGical Subject).
For passives, the predicate argu-ment structure can be recovered by replacing the passive nullelement with the material it is co-indexed with, and treatingthe NP  marked -LGS as the subject.
(s (NP-SBJ-I The ball)(VP was(VP thrown(NP *-i)(PP by(NP-LGS Chris)))))Predicate Argument Structure:throw(Chris, ball)The interpretation rules for passives and WH-phrases inter-act correctly to yield the predicate argument structures forcomplex nestings of WH-questions and passives.
(SBARQ (WHNP-1 Who)(Sq was(NP-SBJ-2 *T* - I )(VPbel ieved116(S (NP-SBJ-3 *-2)(VP to(VP have(VP been(VP shot(NP *-3))))))))?
)Predicate Argument Structure:believe (*someone*, shoot (*someone*, Who))A null element is also used to indicate which lexical NP  is tobe interpreted as the null null subject of an infinitive comple-ment clause; it is co-indexed with the controlling NP, basedupon the lexical properties of the verb.
(S (NP-SBJ-I Chris)(VP wants(S (I~P-SBJ *-I)(VP to(VP throw(NP the ball) ) ) ) ) )Predicate Argument St ructure :=ants (Chris, throw (Chris, ball))We also use null elements to allow the interpretation of othergrammatical structures where constituents do not appear intheir default positions.
Null elements are used in most casesto mark the fronting (or "topicalization" of any element ofan S before the subject (except in inversion).
If an adjunct istopicalized, the fronted element does not leave a trace sincethe level of attachment is the same, only the word order isdifferent.
Topicalized arguments, on the other hand, alwaysare marked by a null element:(S (NP-TPC-5 This)(NP-SBJ every man)(VP contains(NP *T*-5)(PP-LOC within(liP him) ) ) )Again, this makes predicate argument interpretat ionstraightforward, if the null element is simply replaced by theconstituent to which it is co-indexed.Similarly, if the predicate has moved out of VP, it leaves anull element *T* in the VP node.
(SINV (VP-TPC-I Marching(PP-CLR past(NP the reviewing stand)))(VP were(VP *T*-I)  )(NP-SBJ 500 musicians))TAG Mnemnon ic*ICH* Interpret Constituent Here*PPA* Permanent Predictable Ambiguity*RNR* Right Node Raising*EXP* EXPletiveFigure 2: The four forms of pseudo-attachmentHere, the SINVnode marks an inverted S structure, and the-TPC tag (ToPiC) marks a fronted (topicalized) constituent;the -GLR tag is discussed below.6.
D ISCONTINUOUSCONSTITUENTSMany otherwise clear argument/adjunct relations in thecurrent corpus cannot be recovered ue to the essentiallycontext-free representation of the current Treebank.
For ex-ample, currently there is no good representation for sentencesin which constituents which serve as complements o the verboccur after a sententiM level adverb.
Either the adverb istrapped within the VP, so that the complement can occurwithin the VP, where it belongs, or else the adverb is at-tached to the S, closing off the VP and forcing the comple-ment to attach to the S. This "trapping" problem serves as alimitation for groups that currently use Treebank material tosemiautomatically derive lexicons for particular applications.To solve "trapping" problems and annotation of non-contiguous tructure, a wide range of phenomena of the kinddiscussed above can be handled by simple notational devicesthat use co-indexing to indicate discontinuous tructures.Again, an index number added to the label of the originalconstituent is incorporated into the null element which showswhere that constituent should be interpreted within the pred-icate argument structure.We use a variety of null elements to show show how non-adjacent constituents are related; we refer to such con-stituents as "pseudoattached'.
There axe four different ypesof pseudo-attach, as shown in Figure 1; the use of each willbe explained below:The *IGH* pseudo-attach is used for simple extraposition,solving the most common case of "trapping":(S (NP-SBJ Chris)(VP knew(SBAR *ICH*-I)(NP-TSP yesterday)(SBAR- 1 that(S (NP-SBJ Terry)(VP would(VP catch(NP the ball)))))))Here, the clause that Terry would catch the ball is to be in-terpreted as an argument of knew.117The *PPA* tag is reserved for so-called "permanent pre-dictable ambiguity", those cases in which one cannot tellwhere a constituent should be attached, even given context.Here, annotators attach the constituent at the more likelysite (or if that is impossible to determine, at the higher site)and pseudo-attach it at all other plausible sites using usingthe *PPA * null element.
Within the annotator workstation,this is done with a single mouse click, using pseudo-move andpseudo-promote operations.
(S (NP.-SBJ I)(VP saw(NP (NP the man)(PP *PPA*-I))(PP-CLR-1 v i th(NPthe te lescope) ) ) )The *RNR*tag is used for so-called "right-node raising" con-junctions, where the same constituent appears to have beenshifted out of both conjuncts.
(S But(IfP-SBJ-2 our outlook)(VP (VP has(VP been(ADJP *RNR*-I)))and(VP continues(S (NP-SBJ *-2)(VP to(vP be(ADJP *PJ~R*-I) ))))p(ADSP-I defensive)))So that certain kinds of constructions can be found reliablywithin the corpus, we have adopted special marking of somespecial constructions.
For example, extraposed sentenceswhich leave behind a semantically null "it" are parsed asfollows, using the *EXP* tag:(S (NP-SBJ (NP It)(S *EXP*-i))(VP is(liP a pleasure))(S-I (NP-SBJ *)(VP to(VP teach(NP her)))))Pred icate  Argument S t ructure :pleasure(teach(*someone*,  h r ) )Note that "It" is recognized as the surface subject, and thatthe extraposed clause is attached at S level and adjoined to"it" with what we call *EXPa-attach.
The *EXP* is auto-matically co-indexed by our annotator workstation softwareto the postposed clause.
The extraposed clause is interpretedas the subject of a pleasure here; the word it is to be ignoredduring predicate argument interpretation; this is flagged bythe use of a special tag.7.
CONJUNCTION AND GAPP INGIn general, we use a Chomsky adjunetion structure to showcoordination, and we coordinate structures as low as possible.We leave word level conjunction implicit; two single wordNP's or VP's will have only the higher level of structure.
Ifat least one of the conjoined elements consists of more thanone word, the coordination is made explicit.
The examplethat follows shows two conjoined relative clauses; note thatrelative clauses are normally adjoined to the antecedent NP.
(S (NP-SBJ Terry)(VP knew(NP (NP the person)(SBAR (SBAR (hg4NP-I who)(S (SP-SBJ T-l)(VP threw(NP the ball))))and(SBAR (NHSP-2 who)(S (NP-SBJ T-2)(VP caught(NP i t ) ) ) ) ) ) )Pred icate  Argument S t ructure :(hew Terry (person (and (threw *who* ba l l )(caught *who* i t ) ) ) )Conditional, temporal, and other such subordinate clauses,like other adjuncts, are normally attached at S-level.The phenomenon of gapping provides a major challenge toour attempt to provide annotation which is sufficient to allowthe recovery of predicate argument for whatever structure iscomplete within a sentence.
We have developed a simplenotational mechanism, based on structural templates, whichallows the predicate argument structure of gapped clausesto be recovered in most cases when the full parallel struc-ture is within the same clause.
In essence, we use the com-plete clause as a template and provide a notation to allowarguments to be mapped from the gapped clause onto thattemplate.
In the template notation, we use an equal sign toindicate that constituent NP=I  should be mapped over NP-1in the largest conjoined structure that NP-1 and NP=I  bothoccur in.
A variety of simple notational devices, which we willnot discuss here, extend this notation to handle constituentsthat occur in one branch of the conjunct, but not the other.
(S (S (NP-SBJ-1 Mary)(VP likes(NP-2 Bach) ) )and(S (NP-SBJffil Susan)(NPffi2 Beethoven)))118Predicate Argument Structure:like (Mary, Bach) and like (Susan,Beethoven)(S (S (NP-SBJ John)(VP gave(NP-I Mary)(~P-2 a book)))and(S (NP=I Bill)(NP=2 a pencil)))(s (s (NP-SBJ Z)(VP eat(NP-I breakfast)(PP-TMP-2 in(NP the morning))))and(S (NP=i lunch)(PP-TMPffi2 in(NP the afternoon))))We do not attempt to recover structure which is outside asingle sentence.
We use the tag FRAG for those pieces oftext which appear to be clauses, but lack too many essen-tial elements for the exact structure to be easily determined.Obviously, predicate argument structure cannot be extractedfrom FRAG's.Who threw the ball?
Chris, yesterday.
(FRAG (NP Chris)s(NP-TMP yesterday) )What is Tim eating?
Mary Ann thinks chocolate.
(S (MP-SB3 Mary Ann)(VP thinks(SBAR 0(FRAG (NP chocolate)))))2.
Black, E., Jelinek, F., Lafferty, J., Magerman, D.M.,Mercer, R., and Roukos, S. 1992.
Towards history-basedgrammars: Using Richer Models for Probabilistic pars-ing.
In Proceedings of the $1th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.3.
Brill, E., Marcus, M., 1992.
Automatically acquiringphrase structure using distributional analysis.
In Pro-ceedings of the DARPA Speech and Natural LanguageWorkshop, February 199~.4.
Brill, E., 1993.
Automatic grammar induction and pars-ing free text: a transformation-based approach.
In Pro-ceedings of the 31th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics.5.
Francis, W., 1964.
A standard sample of present-dayEnglish for use with digital computers.
Report o the U.SOffice of Education on Cooperative Research Project No.E-OOZ Brown University, Providence.6.
Francis, W. and Ku~era, H., 1982.
Frequency analysis ofEnglish usage.
Lexicon and grammar.
Houghton Mifflin,Boston.7.
Garside, R., Leech, G., and Sampson, G., 1987.
Thecomputational nalysis of English.
A corpus-based ap-proach.
Longman, London.8.
Hindle, D., and Rooth, M., 1993.
Structural Ambiguityand Lexical Relations.
Computational Linguistics, Vol19.9.
D. Magerman and M. Marcus, 1991.
PEARL - -  A Prob-abilistic Chart Parser, In Proceedings, Fifth Conferenceof the European Chapter off the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics (EACL), Berlin, April 1991.10.
Marcus, M., Santorini, B., Marcinkiewicz, M.A., 1993.Building a large annotated corpus of English: the PennTreebank.
Computational Linguistics, Vol 19.11.
Quirk, R., Greenbanm, S., Leech, G., and Svaxtvik, J.,1985.
A comprehensive grammar of the English language,Longman, London.8.
CONCLUSIONWe are now beginning annotation using this new scheme.
Webelieve that this revised form of annotation will provide a cor-pus of annotated material that is useful for training stochasticparsers on surface syntax, for training stochastic parsers thatwork at one level of analysis beyond surface syntax, and atthe same time provide a consistent database for use in lin-guistic research.References1.
Black, E., Abney, S., Flickenger, F., Grishman, R., Har-rison, P., Hindle, D., Ingria, R., Jelinek, F., Klavans,J., Liberman, M., Marcus, M., Roukos, S., Santorini,B., and Strzalkowski, T., 1991.
A procedure for quan-titatively comparing the syntactic coverage of Englishgrammars.
In Proceedings ofthe Fourth DARPA Speechand Natural Language Workshop, February 1991.119
