PANGLOSS:  KNOWLEDGE-BASED MACHINETRANSLAT IONEduard Hovy, Principal InvestigatorInformation Sciences InstituteUniversity of Southern California4676 Admiralty WayMarina del Rey, CA 90292-6695PROJECT GOALSThe goals of the PANGLOSS project are to investigateand develop a new-generation k owledge-based interlin-gual machine translation system, combining symbolicand statistical techniques.
The system is to translatenewspaper texts in arbitrary domains (though a specificfinancial domain is given preference) to as high qualityas possible using as little human intervention as possible.The project involves three sites (USC/ISI, New Mex-ico State University, and Carnegie Mellon University).NMSU is responsible for Spanish parsing and lexiconacquisition; CMU for glossary and example-based MTtranslation, interlingua specification, workstation devel-opment, and system integration, and ISI for Japaneseparsing and analysis, Spanish analysis, English genera-tion, Japanese and English lexicon acquisition, and se-mantic term lexicon (Ontology) acquisition.Within PANGLOSS, it is the particular focus of ISI tostrive toward large-scale system coverage by investigat-ing the feasibility and utility of combined statistical andhuman acquisition techniques of grammars, lexicons, andsemantic knowledge.
To this end, we have acquired sev-eral large resources, especially of Japanese lexical infor-mation, and are developing methods to integrate thisknowledge with the ongoing development of Japaneseparsing and semantic analysis and Ontology term acqui-sition and taxonomization.RECENT RESULTSThe most recent ARPA evaluations of several MT sys-tems, including PANGLOSS, are not yet available.
How-ever, preliminary measurements indicate that translatorsperformed around 40% more quickly using the systemthan translating manually (for Spanish to English; theJapanese ffort is only 6 months old at this time).In recent work, we have:?
continued the construction of the PANGLOSS Ontol-ogy, the taxonomy of terms used in the semanticinterlingua representation (the Ontology now con-tains approx.
50,000 items);?
acquired and deployed the lexical analyzer JU-MAN and the parser SAX, with their accompanying130,000-item wordlist;?
acquired a bilingual Japanese-English dictionary ofapprox.
70,000 entries and fully decoded its con-tents;?
acquired several other Japanese lexicons of varioussizes and amounts of information;?
developed algorithms for linking Japanese lexicalitems to the Ontology;?
developed an English lexicon for our Penman sen-tence generator that contains approx.
70,000 items;?
developed several mappers that convert he outputof one module of PANGLOSS into the input of an-other (all these mappers employ the same bottom-up unification-based chart parser);?
developed a collection of 200,000 statistically-basedrules that govern the inclusion of the articles "the"and "a" into English text without articles (which ishow it would come from Japanese).PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAROur major efforts for the next year fall in four areas:1.
Japanese parsing, analysis, and lexis: the continuedextension and testing of the current systems andlexicons;2.
Spanish semantic analysis: the development of thecurrent mapper from the NMSU parser output tointerlingua form into a more powerful and robustsemantic mapper;3.
Ontology enrichment: he extraction of concept fea-tures and interrelationships from online resourcesand text, and their inclusion into the Ontology;4.
Sentence planning and English generation: the en-hancement of the current interlingua-to-Penmanmapper into a true Sentence Planner and the con-tinued extension of the Penman generator..J478
