Building Japanese-English Dictionary based on Ontologyfor Machine TranslationAkitoshi Okumura, Eduard HovyUSC/ In format ion  Sciences Inst i tute4676 Admira l ty  WayMar ina  del Rey, CA 90292ABSTRACTThis paper describes asemi-automatic method for associatinga Japanese lexicon with a semantic oncept taxonomy calledan ontology, using a Japanese-English bilingual dictionary asa "bridge".
The ontology supports emantic processing ina knowledge-based machine translation system by providinga set of language-neutral symbols and semantic information.To put the ontology to practical use, lexical items of eachlanguage of interest must be linked to appropriate ontologyitems.
The association of ontology items with lexical itemsof various languages i a process fraught with difficulty: sincemuch of this work depends on the subjective decisions of hu-man workers, large MT dictionaries tend to be subject osome dispersion and inconsistency.
The problem we focuson here is how to associate concepts in the ontology withJapanese lexical entities by automatic methods, since it istoo difficult to define adequately many concepts manually.We have designed three algorithms to associate a Japaneselexicon with the concepts of the ontology automatically: theequivalent-word match, the argument match, and the exam-ple match.
We simulated these algorithms for 980 nouns, 860verbs and 520 adjectives as preliminary experiments.
The al-gorithms axe found to be effective for more than 80% of thewords.1.
In t roduct ionThis paper describes a semi-automatic method for asso-ciating a Japanese lexicon with a semantic oncept ax-onomy using a Japanese-English bilingual dictionary asa "bridge", in order to support semantic processing in aknowledge-based machine translation (MT) system.To enhance the semantic processing in MT systems,many system include conceptual networks called ontolo-gies or semantic taxonomies \[Bateman, 1990; Carlsonand Nirenburg, 1990; Hovy and Knight, 1993; Klavanset al, 1990; Klavans et al, 1991; Knight, 1993\].
Theseontologies house the representation symbols used by theanalyzer and generator.
To put the ontologies to practi-cal use, lexical items of each language of interest shouldbe linked to appropriate ontology items.
To support ex-tensibility to new languages, the MT ontology shouldbe language-neutral, if not language-independent\[Hovyand Nirenburg, 1992\].
However, the construction oflanguage-neutral ontologies, and the association of on-tology items with lexical items of various languages, areprocesses fraught with difficulty.
Much of this work de-pends on the subjective decisions of more than one hu-man workers.
Therefore, large MT dictionaries tend tobe subject to some dispersion and inconsistency.
Manytranslation errors are due to these dictionary problems,because the quality of the MT dictionaries are essentialfor the translation process.
If possible, the dictionaryquality should be controlled by automatic algorithmsduring the process of development to suppress disper-sions and inconsistencies, even if the final check shouldbe entrusted to the human workers.Another motivation for the development of automateddictionary/ontology alignment algorithms is the in-creased availability of online lexical and semantic re-sources, such as lexicons, taxonomies, dictionaries andthesaiuri\[Matsumoto e  al., 1993b; Miller, 1990; Lenatand Guha, 1990; Carlson and Nirenburg, 1990; Collins,1971; IPAL, 1987\].
Making the best use of such resourcesleads to higher quality translation with lower develop-ment cost\[Hovy and Knight, 1993; Knight, 1994; Hovyand Nirenburg, 1992\].
For example, the JUMAN sys-tem provides a Japanese unilingual lexicon for analyzingJapanese texts\[Matsumoto et al, 1993b\].
The linkageof the unilingual lexicon to the ontology directly en-ables Japanese-English translation with lower develop-ment cost.
From this viewpoint, automatic alignmentalgorithms represent a new paradigm for MT systembuilding.The problem we focus on here is how to associate con-cepts in the ontology with Japanese lexicM entities byautomatic methods, since it is too difficult to define ad-equately many concepts manually.
We have designedthree algorithms to associate a Japanese lexicon with theconcepts of the ontology automatically: the equivMent-word match, the argument match, and the examplematch, by employing a Japanese-English bilingual dic-tionary as a "bridge".
The algorithms make it possibleto link the unilingual exicons uch as JUMAN with theontology for the development of a Japanese-English MTsystem.141First, we describe three linguistic resources for develop-ing the Japanese-English MT system: the ontology, theJapanese lexicon, and the bilingual dictionary.
Next, wedescribe the automatic oncept association algorithmsfor creating the MT dictionary.
Finally, we report theresults of the algorithms as well as future work.2.
Linguistic Resources2.1.
OntologyAt USC/ISI, we have been constructing an ontology, alarge-scale conceptual network, for three main purposeswith the PAngloss MT system, which we are buildingtogether with CMT and NMSU.
The first is to definethe interlingua constituents, which comprise the seman-tic meanings of the input sentences independent of thesource and target languages.
They are defined in theontology as concepts that represent commonly encoun-tered objects, entities, qualities, and relations.
As the re-sult of analyzing the input text, our MT system parsersproduce interlingua representation using the concepts.The second purpose is to describe semantic onstraintsamong concepts in the ontology, which works to supportthe analysis and generation processes of the MT sys-tem.
The third purpose is to act as a common unifyingframework among the lexical items of the various lan-guages.
The ontology is being semi-automatically con-structed from the lexical database WordNet\[Miller, 1990\]and the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English(LDOCE)\[Knight, 1993\].
At the current ime, the ontol-ogy contains over 70,000 items.
English lexical items areassociated with over 98% of the ontology.
The ontologyis also being linked to a lexicon of Spanish words, usingthe Collins Spanish-English bilingual dictionary.
In ourwork, it is being linked to the Japanese lexicon devel-oped for the JUMAN word identification and morphol-ogy system\[Matsumoto et al, 1993b\] by the algorithmsdescribed in this paper.The ontology consists of three regions: the upper re-gion (more abstract), the middle region, and the lower(domain specific) region.
The upper region of the on-tology is called the Ontology Base (OB) and containsapproximately 400 items that represent generalizationsessential for the various modules' linguistic processingduring translation.
The middle region of the ontology,approximately 50,000 items, provides a framework for ageneric world model, containing items representing manyEnglish and other word senses.
The lower regions of theontology provide anchor points for different applicationdomains.
Both the middle and domain model regions ofthe ontology house the open-class terms of the MT in-terlingua.
They also contain specific information used toscreen unlikely semantic and anaphoric interpretations.. i . '
' l  * | : .
? "
i  : o ijw iJW~_O01JWi-O02 ewt l ,  .
.
,  ?Wlpew21,  .
.
,  eW2q.
.
.J Wi ._k ""eWkl ,  .., eWkr.
.
.J Wi-n ""eWnl ,  .., eWn8Figure 1: Bilingual Word Correspondence2.2.
Japanese LexiconAt USC/ISI, we employ the JUMAN morphologi-cal analyzer and the SAX parser for Japanese pars-ing\[Matsumoto et al, 1993b; Matsumoto et al,1993a\].
These two modules use a lexicon of appro-priate 100,000 Japanese words.
The lexicon containsspelling/orthography forms, morphological information,and part-of-speech annotations.
To be useful for MT, theJapanese words should contain English wordsense equiv-alents or semantic definitions.
We provide this informa-tion required for linking JUMAN lexicon to the ontologyconcepts by employing a Japanese-English bilingual dic-tionary as a "bridge" .2.3.
Bilingual DictionaryTo link the unilingual Japanese JUMAN lexicon to theontology, we employ a Japanese-English bilingual dictio-nary.
This dictionary contains 75,000 words, providingJapanese-English word correspondences as hown in Fig-ure 1.
It is not difficult to link JUMAN lexical entrieswith the Japanese lexical items of the bilingual dictio-nary by a simple string matching.
Our problem is: howcan we automatically find the appropriate ontology itemcorresponding to each Japanese lexical item, if any ?Since we assume that there is at least one sense shared bya Japanese word jw i  and the equivalent English words,ewlt ,  ew12, .... ew U, we define it as the bilingual con-cept JWi_O01.
A bilingual concept JW i -k  is assigned tothe kth correspondence pair.
For each bilingual concept,we have extracted from the dictionary lists of the lexicalinformation ecessary for MT processing the Japaneseword entry, including its definition, parts of speech, syn-tactic and semantic onstraints for the arguments, En-glish equivalent words including synonyms, and bilingualexample sentences.
The lexical ists indexed by the bilin-gual concept are shown in Figure 2.For each bilingual concept, we replace information writ-ten in Japanese (such as the Japanese definition) by listsof English words for each Japanese word, by applyingJapanese morphological nalysis and the bilingual dic-tionary.
Hereby we gain, for each Japanese word in theJUMAN lexicon that also appears in the bilingual dictio-142(Bilingual-concept TAMA_O01(Japanese-word "tama" )(Japanese-definition "a spherical object")(Japanese-part-of-speech Noun )(English-equivalent-words "a ball .... a globe")(Examples "throw a ball .... catch a ball""hit a ball" "roll a ball"))Figure 2: A bilingual concept for "Tama"nary, the raw material to which we can apply algorithmsto link it to the ontology.3.
Concept Association AlgorithmsThere are four cases on associating ontology conceptsand equivalent bilingual concepts:case-I Single to single associationA bilingual concept leads to one equivalent En-glish word.
The English word is linked to oneontology concept.
Therefore, the bilingual con-cept is linked to one ontology concept as shownin Figure 3.case-II Single to multiple associationA bilingual concept leads to one equivalent En-glish word.
The English word is linked to sev-eral ontology concepts.
Therefore, the bilingualconcept is linked to several ontology conceptsas shown in Figure 4.case-III Multiple to single associationA bilingual concept leads to several equivalentEnglish words.
The English words are linked toone ontology concept.
Therefore, the bilingualconcept is linked to one ontology concept asshown in Figure 5.case-IV Multiple to multiple associationA bilingual concept leads to several equivalentEnglish words.
Each English word is linked toseveral ontology concepts.
Therefore, the bilin-gual concept is linked to several ontology con-cepts as shown in Figure 6.Bilingual English OntologyConcept Word ConceptJWi-k ewH EW~t-O-1, .., EWkr..O-tFigure 4: Case-II: single to multiple associationcase-IV.
The equivalent-word match is designed for case-IV.
The argument match and the example match are de-signed for case-II and for complementing the equivalent-word match.3.1.
Equ iva lent -word  MatchThe equivalent-word match algorithm is based on the al-gorithm developed by K.Knight for merging LDOCE andWordNet\[Knight, 1993\] and Knight's bilingual matchalgorithm\[Knight, 1994\].
The equivalent-word matchsearches for concept equivalencies by performing an in-tersection operation on all ontology concepts linked tothe English equivalent words of the bilingual concept.Higher confidence is assigned to the concepts whose partof speech corresponds to the ontology type.
For exam-ple, the Japanese noun "Tama" has nine senses in thedictionary.
One of these senses is shown in Figure 7.The bilingual-concept TAMA-001 is represented by twoEnglish words: "ball" and "globe" .
There are respec-tively six and three concepts for "ball" and "globe" inthe ontology as shown in Figure 8.
By intersecting theontology concepts for a ball with the ontology conceptsfor a globe, TAMA_001 can be associated with the ontol-ogy concept balL0_1 with a fairly high level of confidence..3.2.
Argument  MatchThe argument match collates Japanese argument con-straints with ontology argument constraints.
The ar-gument match complements the equivalent-word match,because not all the lists contain two or more Englishequivalent words.
For example, the Japanese verb "ut-susu" has five senses in the dictionary.
One of thesesenses is shown in Figure 9.
There are three conceptslinked to "infect" in the ontology as shown in Figure10.
Ontology concept infect_0_2 contains an argumentconstraint such as "Somebody infects somebody withCase-I and case-III provide single associations betweenthe bilingual concepts and the ontology concepts, whichare simple.
The problem is to associate the ontology con-cepts with equivalent bilingual concepts for case-II andBilingual Concept English Word Ontology conceptJWi..k ewkl EWkl _0_1Bilingual Concept English Word Ontology concepteWklJ Wi -k ~"  " E Wk t -O-1eWkr \]Figure 3: Case-I: single to single association Figure 5: Case-III: multiple to single association143English word Ontology Concept Definitionball_O_1cotillion_O_1clod_O_2 ball ball_0_2ball_O_3ball_O_4ball_O_1globe \[ earth_O_4globe_O_lround shape (a shape that is curved and without sharp angles)cotillion (a lavish formal dance)clod, glob, lump, chunk (a compact mass)(a more or less rounded anatomical body or mass)musket ball (a ball shot by a musket)plaything, toy (an artifact designed to be played with)round shape (a shape that is curved and without sharp angles)earth, world (the planet on which we live)(a sphere on which a map, esp.
of the earth, is represented)Figure 8: Ontology concepts and definitions for "ball" and "globe"Bilingual English OntologyConcept Word Conceptewkl EWkl.0-1, .., EWkr..O-t. .JWi.k ewkj gwkj_ j - l -1,  .., EWlp_j-lou.
?.
,ewhr EWkr-x-l-1 .
.
.
.
EWk~-r-l-vFigure 6: Case-IV: multiple to multiple association(Bilingual-concept UTSUSU_004(Japanese-word "utsusu" )(Japanese-part-of-speech Verb )(Japanese-constraints(Direct-Object Somebody)(Indirect-Object Disease))(English-equivalent-words "infect"))Figure 9: One bilingual concept for "Utsusu"some disease."
When the algorithm matches the ar-gument constraints, the ontology concept infect_0_2 isfound to contain similar argument constraints to thebilingual concept UTSUSU..004.
The algorithm assignshigher confidence to the association of OTSUSU_004 andinfect_O_2.3.3.
Example MatchIn order to complement the above two matches, the ex-ample match Mgorithm compares the bilingual exampleswith the ontology examples and definition sentences.
Bymeasuring the similarity of both examples, the algorithmdetermines the similarity of concepts.
For example, theJapanese noun "ginkou" has one sense in the dictionary.The sense is shown in Figure 11.
There are four con-cepts linked to "bank" in the ontology as shown in Fig-ure 12.
The algorithm calculates the similarity of twoword-sets (the words contained in the bilingual exam-ples and the words contained in the ontology examplesand definition sentence) by simply intersecting the twosets of words after transforming them to canonical dic-tionary entry forms and removing function words.
Inthe case of GINKOU-001 example set and bank exam-ple sets, GINKOU-001 and bank_0.3 share the maximumnumber of words: "deposit" and "money".
As a result,GINKOU_001 is highly associated with the ontology con-cept bank_0_3.4.
ResultsWe simulated these algorithms for 980 nouns, 860 verbsand 520 adjectives in a preliminary experiment.
Half ofthe words belong to case-II and the other half to case-IV.
The algorithms are applied according to the followingprocedure:(Bilingual-concept TAMA_001(Japanese-word "tams" )(Japanese-definition "a spherical object")(Japanese-part-of-speech Noun )(English-equivalent-words % ball" % globe")(Examples "throw a ball" "catch a ball""hit a ball" "roll a ball"))Figure 7: A bilingual concept for "Tams"(Bilingual-concept GINKOU..001(Japanese-word "ginkou" )(Japanese-part-of-speech Noun )(English-equivalent-words % bank")(Examples "deposit money in a bank""have a bank account of 1,000,000 yen""open an account with a bank"))144Figure 11: Bilingual concept for "Ginkou"English Ontology Definition Verb Frameword Conceptinfect -1infect_O_linfect_0..2infect_0.13revolutionize, inspire, fillwith revolutionary ideascommunicate a disease totaint, pollute(SUB Somebody/Something) (DOBJ Somebody)(SUB Somebody) (DOBJ Somebody) (with Disease)(SUB Somebody)(DOBJ Somebody)Figure 10: Ontology concepts, definitions and verb frames for "infect"...The equivalent-word match is applied to case-llwords.
The results of the equivalent-word matchare in Table 1.The argument match is applied to all words exceptfor the ones correctly determined by the equivalent-word match.
The accuracy of the equivalent-wordmatch and the argument match is in Table 2.The example match is applied to all words exceptfor the ones correctly determined by the above twomatches.
The total accuracy of the three matchesis in Table 3.Part of speech Correct Close OpenNoun 51% 29% 20%Verb 35% 38% 27%Adjective 42% 33% 25%Table 1: Accuracy by the equivalent-word match?
Correct: The highest confidence is assigned to allthe correct concepts.?
Close: The highest confidence is assigned to someof the correct concepts.?
Open: No confidence value is assigned to the correctconcepts.Part of speech CorrectNoun 51%Verb 40%Adjective 45%Close Open29% 20%38% 22%33% 22%Table 2: Accuracy after the argument matchPart of speech CorrectNoun 55%Verb 42%Adjective 48%Table 3: TotM accuracy byClose Open35% 10%38% 20%37% 15%the three matchesThe algorithms are found to be effective for more than80% of the words, thereby helping to reduce the dictio-nary development costs of human workers.5.
D iscuss ionIn order to get better esults, we are now improving theratio of the open words and the close words from thefollowing three viewpoints.1.
Semantic distance measurementTo reduce the number of open words, the examplematch is being improved by using a more sophisti-cated algorithm for the semantic distance measuredin the ontology\[Resnik, 1993; Knight, 1993\].
Thismeasurement is also useful for improving the argu-ment match, because the argument constraints areoften described by the specific examples.
In thiscase, the semantic distance measurement algorithmhelps to determine whether the bilingual argumentconstraints are identical with the ontology argumentconstraints or not.2.
Other lexicons and databasesFor further improvement, other lexicons should beexploited.
The open words usually are high ambi-guity words with little information in the bilingualdictionary that have one equivalent English wordwith many meanings, with little constraint infor-mation and few examples.
To compensate for thelack of information, we are now referring to otherbilingual dictionaries and Japanese lexicons.3.
Integration of the three algorithmsTo reduce the number of close words, one integratedalgorithm is being designed.
By using the semanticdistance measurement algorithm, one matching de-gree can be defined for both argument match andexample match.
Though the current equivalent-word match provides a high confidence only when allEnglish-equivalent words share ontology concepts,we define the matching degree according to the num-ber of English-equivalent words which can share on-tology concepts.
For example, when two of threeEnglish-equivalent words share an ontology conceptEW~j_I_I and the other English-equivalent word islinked to an ontology concept EWkj-2-1, a match-ing degree 0.66 is assigned to the association withEWkj _1_1, and a matching degree 0.33 to EWkj ..2_1.145English word Ontology Concept Definitionbankbank_O_1bank_O_2bank_O_3bank_O_4(the sloping side of a declivity containing a large body of water)(a long ridge or pile; "a bank of earth")depository financial institution (a financial institution thataccepts deposits and channels the money into lending activities)array (an arrangement of aerials spaced to give desired directionalcharacteristics)Figure 12: Ontology concepts and definitions for "bank"We determine the optimal weights for the .threematching degrees based on the data used for simu-lation so that the integration algorithm can providethe most plausible association for the open words.As well as improving these points, we are applying thealgorithms to more words and other parts of speech.
Weplan to apply the algorithms to other bilingual dictio-naries such as Chinese-English in order to increase thesophistication of the ontology for our multilingual MTsystem.6.
AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Kevin Knight for his significantassistance for this work.
We also appreciate KazunoriMuraki of NEC Labs.
for his support.
This workwas carried out under ARPA Order No.8073, contractMDAg04-91-C-5224.ReferencesBateman, J.
1990.
Upper modeling: Organizing knowl-edge for natural anguage processing.
In Proc.
FifthInternational Workshop on Natural Language Gener-ation, Pittsburgh, PA.Carlson, L. and S. Nirenburg.
1990.
World Modelingfor NLP.
Tech.
Rep. CMU-CMT-90-121, Center forMachine Translation, Carnegie Mellon University.Collins.
1971.
Collins Spanish-English/English-SpanishDictionary.
William Collins Sons & Co. Ltd.Hovy, E. and K. Knight.
1993.
Motivating shared knowl-edge resources: An example from the pangloss col-laboration.
In IJCAI-93 Workshop Large KnowledgeBases.Hovy, E. and S. Nirenburg.
1992.
Aproximating aninterlingua in a principled way.
In Proceedings ofthe DARPA Speech and Natural Language Workshop.DARPA.IPAL.
1987.
Lexicon of the Japanese Language for com-puters.
Information-technology Promotion Agency,Japan.Klavans, Judith, Roy Byrd, Nina Waeholder, and Mar-tin Chodorow.
1991.
Taxonomy and Polysemy.
Re-search Reportn RC 16443, IBM Research Division, T.J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, NY10598.Klavans, Judith L., Martin S. Chodorow, and Nina Wa-cholder.
1990.
From dictionary to knowledge base viataxonomy.
In Electronic Text Research.
Waterloo,Canada: University of Waterloo, Centre for the NewOED and Text Research.Knight, Kevin.
1993.
Building a large ontology for ma-chine translation.
In Proceedings ofthe ARPA HumanLanguage Technology Workshop.
ARPA, Princeton,New Jersey.Knight, Kevin.
1994.
Merging linguistic resources.In Submitted to: Proceedings of ACL'94 and COL-ING'g4.Lenat, D. and R.V.
Guha.
1990.
Building LargeKnowledge-Based Systems.
Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.Matsumoto, Y., Y. Den, and T. Utsuro.
1993.
NaturalLanguage Parsing System SAX Manual, Ver.2.0.
Na-gao Labs.
Kyoto Univ.
and Matsumoto Labs.
AIST-Nara, Japan.Matsumoto, Y., S. Kurohashi, T. Utsuro, H. Taeki,and M. Nagao.
1993.
Japanese Morphological Anal-ysis System JUMAN Manual, Ver.l.0.
Nagao Labs.Kyoto Univ., Japan.Miller, George.
1990.
Wordnet: An on-line lexicaldatabase.
International Journal of Lexicography 3(4).
(Special Issue).Resnik, Philip.
1993.
Semantic lasses and syntacticambiguity.
In Proceedings of the ARPA Human Lan-guage Technology Workshop.
ARPA, Princeton, NewJersey.146
