A KNOWLEDGE-BASED APPROACH TO INDEXINGSC IENT IF IC  TEXTLois Boggess and Julia Hodges, Principal InvestigatorsDepar tment  of Computer  ScienceMississippi State Univers i tyMississippi State, MS 39762PROJECT GOALSWe are developing a system which scans articles fromscientific literature for the purpose of indexing the text.That is, the system should assist in the rapid determi-nation of the key topics and content of articles in a par-ticular domain and in the production of brief phrasesdescribing the content.
The number of correct conceptsgenerated should be 80% of the concepts present (a re-call rate of 80%), as compared to the output of humandocument analysts processing the same material.RECENT RESULTSOur KUDZU system is an existing system designed forknowledge xtraction from technical text, developed andtested primarily in the domain of veterinary medicine.The testbed for the current project consists of a largebody of journal articles in the domain of physical chem-istry, previously indexed by humans to relate to about200 concepts taken from a hierarchy of more than 2000concepts.
Efforts for these first months have been in twodirections: (1) understanding the relationships amongthe entities in the hierarchy provided by the domain ex-perts; it is a tangled hierarchy - -  a graph rather than atree; and (2) exploring the adaptation ofclustering algo-rithms to generate data-driven hierarchies - - hierarchiessuggested by characteristics of the texts themselves.The KUDZU system is designed to extract informationfrom technical text in a single domain, yet many ele-ments of the system are domaln-independent.
For exam-ple, although the tags with which it labels text includedomain-dependent semantic omponents, most parts ofthe system are not affected by the actual values of thosesemantic omponents and do not have to be changedto accommodate a change of domain.
Two exceptionsaxe a) the portion of the system that attaches preposi-tional phrases to appropriate lements of sentences andb) the domain schema used by the knowledge analyzerof the system.
The latter consists of a hierarchy of con-cepts (e.g., in the domain of veterinary medicine, heartis a body-part which is also a location), and a descrip-tion of the relations deemed to be of interest, along withmandatory and optional concepts which fill roles in thoserelations.
We have access to a hierarchy of concepts usedby domain experts to perform the indexing task.
Partof the current effort is in coding the known required andoptional elements of text used by the experts in deter-mining whether a given index concept is present.Until now we have used our own tag set, developed someyears ago.
We have just adopted a close correlate of thePenn Treebank tag set and have revised our tagger towork with bigrams and trigrams of any tag set.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARWe will complete the computerization f (1) the hierar-chy used by the domain experts to index text, (2) themandatory and optional elements of text used by theexperts to determine whether a given index concept isindeed present, and (3) a set of words known by the ex-perts to map onto the index concepts.
We will also belooking at automating the extraction of both kinds ofinformation directly from a body of text of many hun-dreds of articles indexed by concept.
Once the domainschema is modified, the KUDZU system will produce allrelations from the text that the schema defines as beingof interest.
We expect at that time to analyze whetherthe set of concepts and the set of words mapping ontothem are sufficient in the sense that they are the onlyones whose presence in the text must be noted and givensemantic labels.
Additional analysis of the actual textsmay be required to extend the set of concepts and wordsfor the domain schema.Once the revised system receives a body of text and pro-duces a list of extracted relations from that text on thebasis of prior descriptions of which relations are of inter-est, we will turn to the task of producing index phrasesfor that text.
Most such phrases will probably not beidentical to the index phrases that were actually gener-ated by a document analyst.
However, we hope withinthe year to have a set of generated index phrases thatlook to a non-expert as if most of them may be equiv-alent to the actual phrases that were produced by thehuman expert.
At that point the output of the systemwill be given to the experts themselves for evaluation.458
