Advanced Human-Computer Interface andVoice Processing Applications in SpaceJulie PayetteCanadian Space AgencyCanadian Astronaut ProgramSt-Hubert, QuebecJ3Y 8Y9ABSTRACTMuch interest already exists in the electronics research communityfor developing and integrating speech technology toa variety of ap-plications, ranging from voice-activated systems to automatic tele-phone transactions.
This interest is particularly true in the field ofaerospace where the training and operational demands on the crewhave significantly increased with the proliferation of technology.
In-deed, with advances invehicule and robot automation, the role of thehuman operator has evolved from that of pilot/driver and manual con-troller to supervisor and decision maker.
Lately, some ffort has beenexpended toimplement alternative modes of system control, but au-tomatic speech recognition (ASR) and human-computer interaction(HCI) research ave only recently extended to civilian aviation andspace applications.
The purpose of this paper is to present the par-ticularities of operator-computer interaction i the unique conditionsfound in space.
The potential for voice control applications insidespacecraft is outlined and methods of integrating spoken-languageinterfaces onto operational space systems are suggested.1.
INTRODUCTIONFor more than three decades, space programs internationally havebeen synonymous with the frontier of technological developments.Since 1957, NASA alone has launched an impressive series of earth-orbiting satellites, exploration missions and manned vehicules.Mission complexity has increased tremendously asinstrumentationand scientific objectives have become more sophisticated.
Recentdevelopments in robotics and machine intelligence have led to strik-ing changes in the way systems are monitored, controlled, andoperated\[i\].
In the past, individual subsystems were managed byoperators in complete supervisory and directing mode.
Now the de-cision speed and complexity of many aerospace systems call for anew approach based on advanced computer and software technology.In this context, the importance of the human computer interfacecannot be underestimated.
Astronauts will come to depend on thesystem interface for all aspects of space life including the controlof the onboard environment and life support system, the conductof experiments, the communication among the crew and with theground, and the execution of emergency procedures.One of the technology sought o help solve the human interfacechallenge in space is voice processing.
Though Automatic SpeechRecognition (ASR) and other forms of advanced voice I/0 techniqueshave only recently been experimented with simple avionic systems,much remains to be done to meet the ergonomic haracteristics ofthe unique operational envkonment found in space.This paper presents the particularities of operator-computer interac-tion in space.
As examples, the current envkonment of the SpaceShuttle System is described and projected requirements for the in-ternational Space Station are examined.
The paper also outlines thepotential for voice control applications inside spacecraft and suggestmethods of integrating spoken-language interfaces onto operationalspace systems.2.
THE WORKPLACE: SPACEAny space flight represents some degree of risk and working inspace, as in aviation, comports some hazards.
Suddenly, at any timeduring a mission, a situation may occur that will threaten the lifeof the astronauts or radically alter the flight plan.
Thus, critical tothe success of the mission and security of the crew is the complexprocess of interaction between astronauts and their spacecraft, notonly in routine operation, but also in unforseen, unplanned, andlife-threatening situations.2.1.
Environmental FactorsThe environment outside spacecraft is unforgiving.
With surfacetemperatures anging from -180 C in darkness and 440 C in sunlight,high radiation and no atmosphere, lower earth orbit is hostile to life.Yet, astronauts work in this environment, under high workload andhigh stress, sheltered inside protective vehicules or dressed in bulkyspacesuits.To limit the risks of space walks, the ability to perform physicalactions remotely is crucial.
Aboard the shuttle, remote action is per-formed using of the Remote Manipulator System (RMS) 1 .
And morethan any other task performed inspace, telerobotics introduces higherdemands on the relationship between operators and machines\[2\].Microgravity isanother important environmental f ctors which con-siderably influence the interface configuration ofaerospace systems.Space travel not only generates significant levels of stress in thehuman organism, but transforms the entire operational conditions.For instanc e , to perform their work in space, "weightless" astronautsmust hold themselves "down" one way or another.
They use strapsand foot restraints, or simply grasp hand holders to maintain theirposition.All the above considerations impose restrictions and introduce severedesign requirements a follows:?
Safety: security is a paramount consideration aboard any1 The Remote Manipulator System of the Shuttle is a Canadian-built tele-operated robot arm that is used in a semi- autonomous mode during thosespace flights that require objects to be handled, captured, and released intospace.416spacecraft.
Every procedure and piece of equipment under-goes thorough review before being rated flight eligible.
Forexample, all critical shuttle controls, such as an emergencystop switch, are required to meet very stringent layout require-ments.
No floating object or particle may inadvertently activate.
or damage asensitive system.?
Reliability/Accuracy/Redundancy: high tolerance to failureis a condition to safety.
Operative systems in space must beat least two fault-tolerant, if not more in the ease of criticalsystems such as flight controls or envkonmental control and lifesupport systems (ECLSS).
Where applicable, rror correctionmechanisms must be implemented.?
Accessibility: the crew's ability to execute tasks safely andefficiently is notably improved if controls are ergonomicallyplaced, clearly marked, and readily available\[3\].
Indirect ac-cessibility is also crucial, particularly where overriding of au-tomated functions is required.?
Feedback: in diffeult operational envkonments such as micro-gravity, precise system feedback becomes essential.
Throughvisual, auditive and tactile means, feedback reinforces securityprocedures and lessen the monitoring workload, particularlyfor telerobotic tasks which must be performed with extremecaution.On the shuttle, for example, robot arm operations are executedby two astronauts, one manipulating the robot and the otherassisting with secondary functions, camera controls and sta-res displays.
Visual feedback, if not precisely obtained fromcamera views, is directly available from the four windows ofthe Shuttle's flight deck.
On Space Station, dkect visual feed-back will only be available on rare occasions and thus othermeans of feedback will have to be developed and integratedwith the HCI of the robotics control workstation to providecamera redundancy.?
Commonality: system configuration consistent in type andquality for crew operations enhance fficacy and lowers train-ing demands.
Operating Space Station with an internationalcrew, in particular, will necessitate v ry high commonality offunctions to ensure safety.2.2.
Technology ProliferationEnvironmental constraints are only one of the many factors influ-encing the HCI problem in space.
Technological diversification isanother.
Recent advances have considerably increased the process-ing and information handling capability of computer systems, thusbringing additional operative complexity that must be absorbed byoperators.
In aircraft and spacecraft, despite notable fforts to in-tegrate systems more efficiently, there is so much information, somany sources, datatypes, categories, variations, possibilities, lay-outs, scales, etc.
that crew members no longer operate their systemglobally.
Instead, they receive specific training or pair up to accom-plish their tasks.The impact of technology proliferation is clearly seen on the SpaceShuttle.
As described in a NASA technical report, it is clear "thatthe Shuttle cockpit contains the most complicated assortment ofD&C (Displays and Controls) ever developed for an aerodynamicvehicule.
For control, there are toggle, push button, thumbwheel,press-down and rotary switches; potienfiometers; keyboards; circuitbreakers; and hand controllers.
Display devices include circular andvertical meters, tape meters, mechanical talkbacks, annunciators,flight control meters, digital readouts and CRTs.
There are morethan 2100 D&C devices in the orbiter cockpit.
"\[3\]With the number and types of redundant subsystems continuallyincreasing, the use of dedicated control devices is rapidly growinginto a large, complex system difficult to update and interact with.These conditions have prompted reconsideration f the directiontaken in aerospace system design.An obvious solution to the problem of the exploding cockpit andcrew workload in a demanding environment is a greater level ofautomation ffunctions and the introduction ofalternative interfaces.3.
ADVANCED INTERFACESThe computer and operational systems used in space function undereither autonomous or human control.
Much of the configurationcomplexity is kept as transparent aspossible to the users, to allowthem to concentrate on the purpose of the interaction, rather thansystem design details.
The current design approach focuses on meansof simplifying operations wherever possible and facilitating operator-machine communication.The concept of a more integrated human-computer system is clearlypertinent in space application.
Astronauts are functional compo-nents of space systems, not only as operators and controllers, butas contributors tothe overall performance of the system.
On SpaceStation, where the network of computers will control and monitorthousands of automated systems as well as provide an interface tothe crew, the need for performance will be heightened, necessitatingincreased automation and expansion of the supervisory ole of thecrew members.However, the decision to automate certain aspects of aerospace mis-sion operations demands a careful consideration of the potentialhuman-computer r lationship.
The decision to use a machine for aparticular set of functions will depend on many factors uch as avail-ability, appropriateness, cost, compatibility with existing systems,and more importantly, safety and efficiency.Since few, ff any, external resources and development systems willbe available on a permanent space platform such as Space Station,great selectivity and perspicacity must be exercised when designingand building the human computer interface.
Hence, the interest ininvestigating ew forms of interfaces and input/output devices, suchas voice command and automatic speech recognition.4.
AUTOMATIC  SPEECH IN  SPACEAutomatic recognition and understanding of speech is one of thevery promising application of advanced information technology.
Asthe most natural communication means for humans, speech is oftenargued as being the ultimate medium for human-machine i teraction.On the other hand, with its hesitations and complexity of intention,spoken language is often thought as being inadequate and unsafefor accurate control and time critical tasks\[4\].
Unconvinced of thereliability of speech processing as a control technology, pilots andastronauts have traditionally been reluctant to accept voice interfaces.Yet within a domain-limited command vocabulary, voice control hasalready been identified as a likely choice for controlling multifunc-tion systems, displays and control panels in a variety of environ-ments.
Requiring minimal training, information transfer via voicecontrol offers the basis for more effective information processing,417particularly insituations where speakers are already busy performingsome other tasks.4.1.
Benefits of Speech TechnologyMotivations for using ASR in space are numerous.
Traditionally,space operations have been accomplished via hardware devices,dedicated system switches, keyboards and display interfaces.
Insuch context, ASR is seen as a complement toexisting controls thatshould be used in conjunction with other interaction devices akeadybounded in terms of previously defined needs and capabilities.It is foreseeable that voice control and synthesis could be used as anadded I/O channel to use the crew more efficiently during peak work-load periods.
In particular, ASR may serve to facilitate operationsin such areas as simultaneous control and monitoring (when handsand eyes are busy), extravehicular activities (EVA) and informationstorage and retrieval.For some applications, voice commands combined with manual con-trois may allow more rapid task completion than would be possiblewith manual methods alone.
As an example, a study conducted inthe Manipulator Development Facility (MDF) of the NASA John-son Space Center showed that voice control could be effectivelyused to perform the many switching camera functions associatedwith the closed-circuit television system supporting the RMS robotarm\[3\].
The study also revealed that identical tasks (berthing and de-ployment) were completed invirtually identical times using manualswitching and voice controlled switching having recognition accu-racy between 85 and 95 percent.
Using more accurate, state-of-the-art ASR equipment should allow for marked improvement in theoverall RMS operations.Interest in voice command and automatic speech recognition i ter-faces for space stems from the benefits itmay bring to the demandingoperational environment:?
hands free control?
altemate control (redundancy)?
extension capabilities?
task adaptability?
consistency of interface?
commonafity ofusage?
generic input/output function without requiring diversion ofvisual attention from monitoring tasks.4.2.
Disadvantages and ConcernsAs described in section 2, technical constraints and environmentalfactors impose significant implementation requirements on the useof ASR and voice technology in space.
Other issues to be consid-ered range from the technical choices (isolated word vs continuousspeech, single vs multiple speakers, word based vs phoneme based),the recognizer training update and maintenance r quirements, themagnitude of changes in voice characteristics while in microgravity,and the effect of the space suit (0.3 atmosphere, pure oxygen) uponmaintenance of highly accurate recognition.Without a doubt, ASR system will require a very high recognitionaccuracy rate, possibly 99evaluations performed at NASA that as-tronauts will switch to habitual controls if latency, reliability andefficiency criteria re not met\[5\].
Also, safety and requirements willnecessitate a high level of recognition feedback to the users, withinteractive error correction and user query functions.Finally, on the international Space Station, the diversity of languagesand accents may make ASR an even more difficult challenge to meet.5.
APPLYING VOICE IN SPACEInterest in voice technology for space appfications is not new.
NASAis actively pursuing applications of voice recognition and synthesisfor its spacecraft and ground operations\[5, 6, 7, 8\].
Several testbedshave incorporated voice into their commanding scheme, but only afew experiments have been performed in operational environments.These experiments are summarized below, followed by an outline offuture applications.5.1.
A Bit of HistoryGround TestOn the Shuttle, most Extra-Vehicular Activities (EVA) are performedfor a specific tasks and rehearsed many times before the mission.To aid in these operations, cuff-mounted checklists have served asa useful reminder of procedures to follow.
The problem with cuffchecklists i that he wrist is not always in the best position for readingand at least one hand is required to turn the pages.
Furthermore,information islimited to 3.25x4.5 inch pages which require arestraintto keep in position.
For the longer missions on Space Station whereEVA tasks will be less predictable, cuff checklist will be inadequate.In 1986 and 1988, a voice-activated/voice-synthesis system was de-veloped in conjunction with a prototype space suit to provide analternate information system.
Equipped with a voice- controlledhead-mounted display, the suit was evaluated on the ground in aseries of neutral buoyancy tests\[9\].The voice system was termed an improvement over the cuffchecklist,allowing both hands on the job while moving through procedures,but astronauts commented that the system created a lot of disruptive"chatter" on the channel and interfered with communications.Voice Recording TestIn 1990, direct digital recordings of an astronaut's voice were per-formed on the ground before a mission, in flight during the missionand on the ground upon return.
A selected vocabulary was usedand templates were made.
After analysis, significant acoustic dif-ferences were noted.
No conclusions were drawn, however, as towhether microgravity was the cause of these changes in voice pro-duction, since the discrepancy was mostly blamed on a substantialdifference between recording environments.Shuttle Flight TestTo date, only one experiment using voice recognition technologyhas ever been used aboard aspacecraft.
The voice command system(VCS) experiment flew on board Space Shuttle Discovery STS-41in October 1990 and allowed astronauts Bill Shepherd and BruceMelnick to control the closed-circuit television (CCTV) camerasand monitors by voice inputs\[10\].
The voice command system hadthe capability to control the CCTV camera selection, and camerafunctions uch as pan, tilt, focus, iris and zoom.
The VCS paralleledthe manual controls and provided both audible and visual feedback.The system was speaker dependent with templates of the voice ofthe two astronauts previously made on the ground.
The recognizer418had limited continuous recognition and syntactic capabilities.The VCS intended to collect baseline data on the effect of micrograv-ity on speech production and recognition.
Inaddition, the experimentwas meant o show the operational effectiveness of controlling aspacecraft subsystem using voice input.
Analysis of the data showedlittle variation between the microgravity and ground-based templatesof the astronauts voices.
According to the investigators, astronautswere pleased with the tests and stated that voice control was a usefultool for performing secondary tasks on the Shuttle.Recent evaluations of different modes of camera control performedat NASA and to which the author participated have shown howeverthat non-hardware controls will only be considered as sufficientlysafe to be used in space if reliability can be proven, redundancypossible and efficiency significantly optimized.
Moreover, as men-tioned, experience has shown that crew members readily revert othe primary control system to which they are used to if an alternativesystem is not sufficiently accurate.5.2.
Application PotentialSpoken language communication with the control and monitoringsubsystems onboard the Shuttle or Space Station is a conveniencethat could be provided through automatic speech recognition applica-tions.
Although ASR could not be the primary means of controllingcritical actinns\[7\], it could be used to backup the primary controllerand as an alternative I/O medium for the crew.Speech could also be used to query the status of a particular subsys-tem or database.
Reference manuals could be called up and pagedthrough.
ASR could also be used for "hands-free" maintenance r -porting, allowing the crew to attend to more important work andspend less time generating written reports.Other possible applications would be the use of speech to overcomereduced manual dexterity caused by astronauts having to wear bulkyspace suit and gloves during ascent and reentry.
Voice interfacescould be used to allow a diversity in the number of tasks to beperformed as flexible as the size of the recognizer's vocabulary.Of particular interest are the high workload and adverse conditionsituations (G-load, noise, stress) where dkect voice input could makea significant contribution to overall efficiency.Another promising application for voice technology in space is dur-ing EVA activities, where voice control would allow astronauts onspace walks to perform interactive queries and/or emote manipula-tor control, while busy performing some other maintenance or repairtask or even simply, busy holding themselves down.5.3.
Space StationThe proposed Space Station may also benefit from some form ofautomatic voice interaction to reduce transaction time between crewmembers and their multitasking, multi-panel workstations.
Space-based crew are expected to interact with highly automated systemsand to perform these interactions with often little prior training, oron an infrequent or sporadic basis.
These activities will characterizea new role for astronauts, that of supervisory control.For instance, current plans for the Space Station involve the use ofa significant robotic workforce for assembly, servicing and mainte-nance tasks.
Generically referred to as the Mobile Servicing System,this workforce will be operated from a multi- purpose control work-station.
Equipped with three display devices, the workstation willinclude one keyboard, one cursor control device and a dedicatedhardware switching panel.
The HCI aspects of the workstation arecurrently under designed in Canada and the proposed configura-tion has already raised several major issues centering around howcrewmembers will interact with multiscreen systems.
As there willbe times in which users will be performing up to four simultaneoustasks using the robotics workstation, designers are now looking at al-ternative methods of interaction, including voice-activated features.Finally, as technology progresses, ASR might be used in conjunc-tion with voice synthesis and natural language techniques toprovidetechnical advice or even language translation to assist with commu-nication between the international crew members.6.
CONCLUSIONDeveloping advanced human-computer interaction for space oper-ations is a challenging task that requires the coordinated effort ofvarious fields of study.
A potential avenue for solution is to considervoice technology and automatic speech recognition techniques asmeans of optimizing astronaut performance and helping reduce theirworkload in space.The voice experiment performed on the Space Shuttle mission STS-41 in 1990 has demonstrated that an advanced voice system forinteracting with on-board subsystems may prove both useful andcost effective.Yet, as Dr. Vladimir Solov'yev, a veteran of two russian space mis-sions totalling more than 12 months points out, the human componentof the human-machine system remains akey:Today, we have been accustomed to spacecraft launchesand space flights are now perceived as something to betaken for granted.
The experience of our cosmonauts ithat there is no such thing as an easy space flight.
Acosmonaut or ground control specialist is still a humanbeing with its own set of capacities and problems.
Itmeans that it is a human being who takes a machine \[upin space.., and\] a human, surrounded by a the hostileenvironment ofspace, who makes decisions and interactswith a machine to attain a desired result\[11\].Any future HCI proposal will only achieve its purpose flit is designedwith these limits in mind.References1.
Heer and Lum editors.
Machine lntelligence and Autonomy forAerospace Systems.
Progress in Astronautics and Aeronautics,volume 115, AIAA, 1988.2.
Smith T.J. and Stuart M.A.
"Human Factors of Teleoperationin Space".
In Proceedings of the Human Factors Society 34thAnnual Meeting, 1990.3.
Burghduff, R.D.
and Lewis, J.R. "Man-machine Interface andControl of the Shuttle Digital Flight System".
In Proceedingsof the Space Shuttle Technical Conference, Houston TX, 1983.4.
Howie, M.B., Woods, D.D.
and Cook, R.I. "The Natural His-tory of Introducing New Information Technology into a High-risk Environment".
In Proceedings of the Human Factors So-ciety 34th AnnuaI Meeting, 1990, pp.
429-433.4195.
Coler, C.R.
"Use of Automatic Speech Recognition Technol-ogy for Space Applications".
In Proceedings ofthe Voice I/OSystems Applications Conference, Pale Alto CA, 1984.6.
Parks, D.L.
and White, R.W.
Study to Determine PotentialFlight Application and Human Factors Design Guidelines forVoice Recognition a d Synthesis Systems.
Boeing CommercialAir,plane Company, NAS 1-17367, 1985.7.
Sommers, M3.
"Capabilities and Cons~aints of AutomaticSpeech Recognition and its Use for the Space Station".
InProceedings ofSpeech Teeh, New York, 1987, pp.
318-319.8.
Jordan, W.T.
"Space Shuttle Voice Recognition System".
InProceedings ofSpeech Tech, New York, 1987, pp.
320-321.9.
Griffin, B.N.
"Zero-G Simulation Verifies EVA Servicing ofSpace Station Modules".
A/AA Space Station in the 21st Cen-tury, AIAA paper 86-2312, Reno NV, September 1986.10.
Sa]azar, G. "Voice Recognition Makes its Debut on the NASASTS-41 Mission".
Speech Technology, Feb/March 1991, pp.86-92.11.
So]ov'yev, V. "Problems of Human-machine Interaction onSpace Flight".
In Humans and Machines in Space, Proceedingsof the 29th Goddard Memorial Symposium, Johnson, May &Kern editors, Univelt publishers, 1991, pp.
73-77.420
