CSR DATA COLLECT IONDenise Danielson, Project LeaderJared Bernstein, Principal InvestigatorSRI InternationalMenlo Park, California 94025PROJECT GOALSThe objective of the CSR Data Collection effort is to collectand deliver a large corpus of continuous speech data to sup-port ARPA research efforts in continuous speech recogni-tion (CSR).The CSR Corpus collection task is a high volume data pro-duction task.
SRI's major goals have been improving ef f i -c iency  while defining and implementing data qualitycontrols.
Other goals include gathering data that is morerepresentative of the real world by minimizing controls onvocabulary, microphones, background noise and speakerdisflnencies, and defining documentation standards.RECENT RESULTSSRI completed two separate CSR Data Collection projectsin 1993:Under the CSR Phase 2, Part 1 task, SRI delivered 86,000utterances from 275 speakers, including 8000 spontaneoussentences from 40 journalists.The CSR Development and Evaluation Spokes data collec-tion task yielded 4435 development test utterances fr~n 30speakers and 4878 evaluation test utterances from a differ-ent set of 30 speakers.
The development test data coveredeight different spoke conditions, each of which had its owndistinct combination of subject, prompt ext, microphoneand recording environment requirements.
Similarly, theevaluation test data covered nine different spoke conditicmand two hub conditions, each of which had its own uniquerequirements.Efficiency - -  As a result of data collection softwareimprovements the average data collection pace went from125 utts/hr during the CSR Pilot Corpus Collection to 200utts/hr for CSR Phase 2, Part 1.
For a short-term non-jour-nalist subject collecting 190 read sentences, these changesand a faster paced orientation reduced subject ime from120 minutes to 90 minutes.
A number of changes alsoyielded savings in terms of SILI labor.
The data collectionsupervisor now spends only about 25 minutes instructingand observing while subjects collect heir first few utter-ances, and then leaves the room.
Development of a newtranscription tool led to a 15% to 20% reduction i  tran-scription time and improved accuracy.Data Quality - -  SRI has incorporated NIST data qualitysoftware into its procedures.
Sample files are collected atthe start of each day on each data collection system.
Thesefiles are run through the wavmd program, which runs a sig-nal-to-noise (SNR) evaluation and other tests.
Additionalchecks are performed on all files as they are collected toensure that problems (e.g.
dead microphone) are caught.More comprehensive data quality checks and calibrationprocedures were established as part of the CSR Dev andEval Spokes collection.Documentation-- SRI delivered complete documentationof data collection procedures, subject instructions, ubjectprofiles, microphones and data collection environments forboth the CSR Phase 2, Part 1 Corpus and the CSR Dev andEval Spokes data.
SRI views this as a first step in establish-ing documentation standards for speech corpora.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARSRI is currently between projects for CSR.
We hope to par-ticipate in the CSR Phase 2, Part 2 data collection effortbeginning in spring 1994.
As part of this anticipatedproject, SRI plans to:?
Provide the CCCC with input from the data collectionperspective.?
Test and implement the new data collection system cur-renfly being developed atM1T.?
Work with the CCCC, LDC and NIST to furtherimprove and automate quality tests of speech files.?
Implement improved transcription conventions.?
Work with the LDC and CCCC to further define andimprove documentation standards.474
