PIRCS: a Network-Based Document Routing and Retrieval SystemK.L.
KwokComputer  Science DepartmentQueens College, City University o f  New YorkFlushing, NY  11367PROJECT GOALSOur objective is to enhance the effectiveness andefficiency of ad hoe and routing retrieval for largescale textbases.
Effective retrieval means rankingrelevant answer documents of a user's informationneed high on the output list.
Our text processing andretrieval system PIRCS ( Probabilisitc Indexing andRetrieval -Components- System) handles English textin a domain independent fashion, and is based on aprobabilistic model but extended with the concept ofdocument components as discussed in our last year'ssite report.
Our focus for enhancing effectivenessremains on three areas: 1) improvements ondocumentrepresentation; 2) combination of retrieval algorithms;and 3) network implementation with learningcapabilities.
Using representation with more restrictedcontexts uch as phrases or subdocument units help todecrease ambiguity in both retrieval and learning.Combining evidences from different retrievalalgorithms is known to improve results.
Viewingretrieval in a network helps to implement query-focused and document-focused r trieval and feedback,as well as query expansion.Efficiency of retrieval concerns time, space and costissues of a system.
These become important as thedata one deals with grows larger and larger.
Ourfocus for efficiency is to reduce time and spacerequirements in our system without sacrificingflexibility, robustness and our achieved retrievaleffectiveness.RECENT RESULTSDuring 1993, we participated in TREC2 handling thefull 2GB textbase provided.
We redesign our systemin two aspects: 1) on-demand network creation forretrieval and learning - this eliminates full 'invertedfile' creation saving space and reducing 'dead time'between a collection is acquired and made searchable,and provides for fast learning capability; 2)'subeollecfions within a master' file design - thisenables us to handle very large collections in anincremental nd robust fashion, yet retaining retrievalranking flexibility as if all items are in one singlelarge file.Experiments in retrieval effectiveness shows thatquery training from past known relevant documents ina routing environment can improve average precisionover all recall points by about 40% compared with nolearning.
Short relevant documents are the qualityitems for training; they are efficient and effective.
Aranking of the relevants and choosing the best 'n'appears not necessary.
Breaking documents intosubdocuments improves retrieval for lengthy itemssuch as those from the Federal Registry, andfacilitates choices of quality items for learning.
Termswith high document frequencies are necessary forgood representation a d performance.
A choice ofZipf high frequency cut-off of 50,000 appears a goodcompromise between efficiency and effectiveness.
Ouritem self-learning procedure to initialize edge weightsworks well as attested by our ad hoc retrieval results.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARWe plan to employ 'local matching' such as sentence-sentence comparisons toimprove the precision of ourretrieval.
Better learning samples from the relevantswill be explored for routing experiments.
Additions toour two-word adjacency phrase dictionary will begenerated from the new collections in TREC2.Methods to enhance ad hoe retrieval will also beinvestigated.469
