Pang loss :  A Knowledge-based  Mach ine  Ass i s tedTrans la t ion  Research  Pro jec t  - S i te  2D.
Farwell, Principal InvestigatorComput ing  Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State  University,  Las Cruces,  New Mexico 88003PROJECT GOALSThe Computing Research Laboratory (CRL) at NewMexico State University, jointly with the Center for Ma-chine Translation (CMT) at Carnegie Mellon Universityand the Information Sciences Institute (ISI) at the Uni-versity of Southern California, are developing a Trans-lator's Workstation to assist users in the translation ofnewspaper articles in the area of finance from Spanishor Japanese into English.
At its core is a multi-engineMT system, consisting of a knowledge-based, interlin-gum system, an example-based system, and an extensiveglossary and bilingual dictionary system.
Results fromall systems are combined in a chart structure which se-lects the most reliable and complete translation.
TheKBMT system consists of a source language analysiscomponent, a mapper, and a target language generationcomponent.During the first two years of the project, the CRL's ob-jectives were to develop tools for constructing lexicalitems and ontological entries automatically from on-lineresources, to develop the Spanish analysis component,and, jointly with CMT and ISI, to establish the infras-tructure for the three site project and develop the for-mats and initial content of the interlingua, the ontology,and the knowledge base.The second phase of the project is also for two years,and we are currently in the first six months of this phase.CRL's responsibilities continue as before, with primaryresponsibility for Spanish analysis and joint planningof inter-site cooperation, but with the addition of thetask of fulfilling knowledge-acquisition needs for all threesites, both automatic and manual.RECENT RESULTSIn analysis, three new modules (a proper name recog-nizer, a clause boundary identifier and a syntactic de-pendency analysis module) have been added during thepast year.
As a result, full sentence throughput is nowpossible within the KBMT system.
Acquisition work iscontinuing both with respect o integrating sense tokensinto the growing ontology and in reviewing and increas-ing the Spanish vocabulary in the system.The analysis ystem begins with a dictionary-based part-of-speech tagger, followed by a component which groupsthe tagged text into small syntactic chunks.
Chunkswhich are tagged as proper nouns are sent to the propername recognizer for categorization.
All chunks are thenanalyzed: semantic/lexical information is accessed andincorporated into the representation.
These smallerconstituents are then grouped into clause-level groups,which are then further analyzed to produce ranked pos-sible syntactic dependency structures.With respect to knowledge acquisition, CRL  is currentlyintegrating sense tokens (concepts) into the OntologyBase.
These sense tokens are drawn both from Long-man's Dictionary of Contemporary English (LDOCE)and from Collins Spanish-English/English-Spanish Dic-tionary.
Work is underway to provide a large set oftagged Spanish texts both for work within the projectand ultimately for the NLP community at large.
Theportion of the Ontology used in Spanish anMysis hasbeen incorporated into a data-base and merged with in-formation in an LDOCE-based database.
This allowsfor experimentation with lexicon content and format andrapid increase in vocabulary coverage.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARMajor work is underway and expected to be completedthis year for a final module in the analysis ystem whichwill rank semantic readings of an input text.
This mod-ule will use semantic onsistency (preference) informa-tion, as well as other information (possibly statistically-based), to help disambiguate word senses in the inputtext by ranking the likelihood of readings.
In acquisitionwork, large-scale semi-automatic a quisition of Spanishverbs is expected, and the ability to use the informationabout object entries in the Ontology will be developed.465
