COMBINING LINGUISTIC AND STATISTICAL TECHNOLOGY FORIMPROVED SPOKEN LANGUAGE UNDERSTANDINGMichael Cohen and Robert Moore, Principal InvestigatorsSRI InternationalMenlo Park, CA 94025PROJECT GOALSThe goal of this project is to develop technology for spokenlanguage understanding which is highly accurate, robust,and fast:, is easily ported to new domains, environments,and chaJmels, and quickly adapts to new speakers.
The sys-tem combines the DECIPHER speech recognition systemwith the Gemini natural language understanding system.RECENT RESULTSSRI has developed a spoken language interface to the Offi-cial Airline Guide (OAG).
Despite a funding ap for morethan four months of the year, substantial improvementshave been made in the component technologies.
On recentARPA benchmarks.
SRI achieved 5.5% word error on theATIS speech recognition task, 18.2% utterance error on thenatural-language understanding task, and 20.7% utteranceerror on the spoken-language understanding task.
Otherrecent results include:Investigated several speaker-adaptation algorithmsfor both native and non-native speakers of English.The resulting techniques can match speaker-depen-dent performance (trained on 650 sentences) using100 adaptation sentences, and outperforms thespeaker-dependent sys em when more than 100adaptation sentences are used.Developed an approach for constructing acousticmodels for telephone applications using high-qualityrecordings, resulting in a substantial savings in effortwhen porting the ATIS application to a telephoneenvkonment.Developed methods to discriminate "hesitation"from "end-of-utterance" silent pauses based on dura-tional and f0 correlates of preceding syllables.
Thiscan have important implications for the design ofend-pointing algorithms.?
Performed a study of filled pauses which showedthat hey occur almost exclusively inbetween wordsin low-probability word sequences.?
Improved the modeling of out-of-vocabulary wordsand word-fragments.?
Developed a class-trigram grammar for ATIS,resulting in a 30% decrease inword error comparedto a word-bigram grammar.
Approximately half theimprovement was due to the trigrams, and half to theclasses.?
Developed methods to incorporate natural-languageconstraints supplied by the Gemini parser into theDECIPHER recognition search.?
Increased the speed of the Gemini parser by a factorof four by improved handling of semantic selec-tional restrictions.?
Expanded the scope of the SRI ATIS system forATIS3.?
Assumed leadership of the effort o define a seman-tic evaluation methodology for spoken languagesystems, working out a detailed framework forannotation of the predicate-argument structure ofutterances.?
Collected atotal of 2863 ATIS3 training and testutterances (speech, transcriptions, and log files).PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARIn the following year we plan to continue to explore meth-ods for integrating natural-language constraints into speechrecognition systems, develop rapid speaker adaptationmethods, improve the portability and scalability of thetechnology, and complete the development of a telephone-based ATIS system.472
