The Automat ic  Component  of the L INGSTATMachine-Aided Translation System*Jonathan Yamron, James Cant, Anne Demedts, Taiko Dietzel, and Yoshiko ItoDragon Systems, Inc., 320 Nevada Street,  Newton,  MA 02160PROJECT GOALSLINGSTAT is an interactive machine-aided translationsystem designed to increase the productivity of a trans-lator.
It is aimed both at experienced users whose goalis high quality translation, and inexperienced users withlittle knowledge of the source whose goal is simply to ex-tract information from foreign language text.
The sys-tem makes use of statistical information gathered fromparallel and single-language corpora, but also draws fromlinguistic sources of knowledge.
The first problem to bestudied is Japanese to English translation, and work isprogressing on a Spanish to English system.RECENT RESULTSIn the newest version of LINGSTAT, the user is providedwith a draft translation of the source document, whichmay be used for reference or modified.
The translationprocess in LINGSTAT consists of the following steps:1) tokenization and morphological nalysis; 2) parsing;3) rearrangement of he source into English order; 4) an-notation and selection of glosses.After tokenization and de-inflection (described in an ear-lier report), a source document passes through a two-stage parsing process.
The first stage implements acoarse probabilisti?
context-free grammar of a few hun-dred human-supplied rules acting on parts of speech.Because of this coarseness, ome parsing ambiguities re-main to be resolved by the second-stage parser, whichimplements a simple, lexicalized, probabilistic ontext-free grammar trained on word co-occurrences in unla-beled Japanese sentences without human input.The next step in the translation process is a transfer ofthe parse of each Japanese sentence into a correspondingEnglish parse, giving an English word ordering.
This isaccomplished through the use of English rewrite rulesencoded in the Japanese grammar, which implies an En-glish grammar.
The rewrite process just consists of tak-ing the Japanese parse and expanding in this Englishgrammar.
*This work was sponsored by the Advanced Research ProjectsAgency under contract number J-FBI-91-239.The final step is to apply a trigram model to select hebest gloss from among the many candidates for eachword, by making the choices that maximize the aver-age probability per word.
The trigram model used wastrained on Wall Street Journal text.The January 1994 ARPA machine translation evalua-tion has recently been completed.
In this test, Dragonused the same translators as in the May 1993 evaluationand provided them with essentially the same interfaceand online tools.
The difference in this evaluation wasthat the translators were also provided an automaticallygenerated English translation of the Japanese documentas a first draft.
Manual and machine-assisted ranslationtimes were measured, and the automatic output was alsosubmitted for separate valuation.Preliminary timing results show a speedup by a factorof 2.4 in machine-assisted vs. manual translation, whichis essentially unchanged from the May 1993 result.
Thissuggests that the draft translation was of no significanthelp to the translators in this evaluation, probably be-cause the quality of automatic output is not high enoughto be relied upon.
A quality measurement of the auto-matic output is not yet available.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARThe two independent grammars (probabilistic ontext-free and lexicalized) that comprise the current syntacticanalysis must be merged and trained together.
Attemptsto do this have so far resulted in an unacceptable increasein training and parsing time due to the complexity of thealgorithm.This newest version of the system must be ported toSpanish for the next evaluation, scheduled for June.
Thiswill require improvements to the Spanish dictionary andde-inflector, an update of the Spanish grammar f om theolder Spanish system, a lexicalized grammar trained onSpanish text, and Spanish rewrite rules.
We intend touse the parallel Spanish-English component of the UNdata to provide gloss information.453
