Corpus Development Activities at the Center for SpokenLanguage UnderstandingRon Cole, Mike Noel, Daniel C. Burnett, Mark Fanty,Terri Lander, Beatrice Oshika, Stephen SuttonCenter for Spoken Language UnderstandingOregon Graduate Institute of Science and TechnologyPortland, Oregon 97291ABSTRACTThis paper describes eight telephone-speech corpora at vari-ous stages of development at the Center for Spoken LanguageUnderstanding.
For each corpus, we describe data collectionprocedures, methods of soliciting callers, protocol used to col-lect the data, transcriptions that accompany the speech data,and the expected release date.
The corpora are available atno charge to academic institutions.1.
INTRODUCTIONThe Center for Spoken Language Understanding (CSLU)collects and transcribes telephone-speech data to enable re-search activities at CSLU and elsewhere.
Corpus develop-ment a~ctivities are performed by four full-time staff, aided bygraduate students and paxt-time mployees.
In 1994, we an-ticipate collecting and transcribing speech from 10,000 callersin twenty languages.
Corpus development activities are sup-ported by industrial memberships and research grants.Corpus development activities at CSLU include: (a) collect-ing telephone speech data in different languages; (b) tran-scribing speech at word and phonetic levels; (c) developingand documenting transcription conventions for each level; (d)measuring the level of agreement among transcribers; (e) de-veloping interactive speech tools for labeling; (f) distributingthe speech corpora to academic institutions free of charge;and (g) placing speech tools and labeling conventions in thepublic domain for use by others.In this section, we present some general information aboutour corpus development activities.
In the following sections,we will describe individual corpora.Data  Col lect ion.
telephone-speech data are collected overanalog and digital telephone lines.
Prior to November, 1993,speech data were collected over analog lines using severalGradient Technology Desldabs.
Since November, 1993, themajority of our data has been collected using a 24 channelT1 line connected to three LINKON FC3000 Communica-tion Boards.
We are also using an Apple GeoPort TelecomAdapter connected to a Macintosh Quadra A\]V to collectanalog speech data for one of the corpora to be described.aligned phonetic level.
Non-time-aligned word level tran-scription involves producing an orthographic representationof the utterance, including indications of extra-speech eventssuch as breathes or lip smacks, without time markings.
Time-aligned word level transcription provides the same ortho-graphic transcription augmented with time alignment mark-ings.
Time-aligned phonetic transcription involves aligningphonetic symbols to the acoustic signal.A precise description of the conventions used for all levelsof labeling, including a complete list of all phonetic labelsfor each language, is presented in the CSLU conventionsdocument\[l\]T ranscr ipt ion  Rel iabi l i ty.
We are conducting experimentsto determine the level of agreement among labelers.
In theseexperiments, CSLU staff and professional phoneticians axeusing Worldbet \[5\] to transcribe the same intervals of speech.Initial results for English indicate overall agreement of ap-proximately 80% across all labels, ranging from approxi-mately 70% for vowels to greater than 90% for stops andnasals.Speech Tools.
The OGI Speech Tools support data ma-nipulation, analysis and display\[2\].
All corpus developmentactivities are performed using these tools.
They were devel-oped at CSLU, then made portable and documented for dis-tribution with support from NSF.
The tools have been madeavailable to the reseaxch community through anonymous ftp.2.
CORPORAThe first three corpora described in this section are consid-ered to be complete and are now available from CSLU.
Theywere collected over an analog telephone line using a GradientTechnology Desldab connected via the SCSI port to a work-station.
The data were digitized at 8000 samples per secondwith a 14 bit resolution.
All data are stored in the NISTway file format, some with MIT shortpack compression.
Theremaining corpora are under development and estimated re-lease dates are provided for each.2.1.
Spelled and Spoken Names CorpusTranscr ipt ion.
Each call is processed by one or more listen-ers.
Calls are verified to determine that the caller followedinstructions and in some cases, transcribed at some level.Transcription of corpora occurs at three different levels: non-time-aligned word level, time-aligned word level, and timeThe Spelled and Spoken Names Corpus \[3\] contains utter-ances from 3667 calls.
Callers were solicited through com-puter newsgroups and a public relations campaign initiatedby OGI.
The majority of callers were from the Pacific North-west.
The proportion of male to female callers is 1.15 : 1.31The goal was to collect samples of spoken English letters andspoken words to support a research project funded by U SWEST.
Callers received the following prompts:?
What city are you calling from??
What is your last name??
Please spell your last name.?
Please spell your last name with short pauses betweenletters.?
Does your last name contain the letter A as in apple??
What is your first name??
Please spell your first name, with short pauses betweenletters.?
What city and state did you grow up in??
We will now ask you to say the alphabet.
We need youto pause briefly between letters, like this: A B C D EF G. You may hang up when you are finished.
Pleasebegin speaking now.?
Would you like to receive more information about theresults of this project??
If you would like more information about this project,#ease leave your name and address at the tone.Documentation of the Spelled and Spoken Name Corpus in-cludes a speaker-by-speaker log file containing orthographictranscriptions of each utterance.
Each utterance was tran-scribed by two separate listeners.
The log also contains theglobal judgments of gender, age, connection quality, accent,and intelligibility.
In addition, occurrences of extraneousspeech, environmental noise, excessive breath, or line noiseare indicated in the log file for each utterance.A subset of the data was transcribed at the time-Migned pho-netic level.
The utterances were labeled by hand then labelsand time-aLignments with the speech spectrogram were ver-ified by an expert spectrogram reader.
The subsets of pho-netically labeled utterances available to date are as follows:?
What is your native language??
What language do you speak most of the time??
Please recite the seven days of the week.?
Please say the numbers zero through ten.?
Tell us something that you like about your hometown.?
Tell us about the climate in your hometown.?
Describe the room that you are calling from.?
Describe your most recent meal.In addition, unconstrained speech was obtained by askingcallers to speak for 1 minute on any topic of their choice.Each utterance was listened to by a native speaker of the lan-guage to verify that the caller responded appropriately.
Thenative speaker also made judgments concerning the caller'sgender, the caller's age, and the line quality.The enhanced corpus is augmented with: (a) 200 Hindi calls;(b) speech files that were collected during the original col-lection but were not included in the original distribution;and (c) time-aligned phonetic transcriptions of over five hoursof speech (up to 50 sec per call) in six languages--English,Japanese, German, Spanish, Hindi, and Mandarin.
For thebroad phonetic transcription, we have adopted the World-bet labeling scheme, a set of orthographic symbols for multi-language transcription that correspond to IPA symbols \[5\].The rationale for using Worldbet and the inventory of sym-bols for each language is provided in \[1\].2.3.
Stories CorpusCollection for the OGI Multi-Language Corpus produced ad-ditional calls from English speakers not included in the Multi-Language Corpus.
The Stories Corpus consists of up to 50 secof spontaneous speech (hereafter "stories") from 692 Englishcalls.
All 692 calls have been transcribed at the non-time-aligned word level, 300 at the time-aligned word level, and200 at the time-aligned phonetic level.Type Numberalphabethometowncallfromsay first namesay last namespell last namewith pause10013596931001013002.4.
Twenty-one Language CorpusCSLU plans to collect and verify calls from at least 200 fluentnative speakers in 21 languages--Eastern Arabic, Cantonese,Czech, Farsi, French, German, Hindi, Hungarian, Japanese,Korean, Malay, Mandarin, ItaLian, Polish, Portuguese, Rus-sian, Spanish, Swedish, Swahili, Tamil, and Vietnamese.
Ver-ification and global judgments will be performed by nativespeakers.2.2.
Enhanced OGI Mult i -Language Cor-pusThe OGI Multi-Language Telephone-Speech Corpus \[4\] con-sists of telephone~speech from 10 languages: English, Farsi,French, German, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, Spanish,Tamil and Vietnamese.
The initial corpus included 900calls--90 calls for each language.Callers were solicited through computer newsgroups.
Eachcaller was asked to respond to the following prompts:The following is the English version of the protocol for thetwenty-one language corpus.
The protocol will be presentedto the caller in their language.Thank  you for cal l ing the Oregon Graduate  In-s t i tute  language database.
We are cur rent lyrecord ing  speech in ( language).
We are s tudy ingthe dif ferent languages of  the world.
To do this,we need to record samples  o f  speech f rom f luentspeakers o f  ( language).
P lease respond to the fol-lowing quest ions and ins t ruct ions  in ( language)32only.
Th is  wi l l  take about  7 minutes .
P leasewait  for the  beep  before speak ing.?
What is your native language??
What language do you speak most of the time??
What language do you speak at home??
What other languages do you speak and understand??
How old are you??
What is your date of birth??
Are you male or female??
How long have you been in the United States??
What city and state did you spend most of your child-hood??
What is your zipcode??
What area code are you calling from??
What day is today??
What time is it??
Say a familiar telephone number.?
How would you ask someone if they speak (language)??
Give us the greeting you usually use when answering thephone.?
For each of the fol lowing descr ipt ions ,  we wil lrecord the f irst ten  seconds of your  answer.
Be-g in  speak ing  at the beep.
A second beep wil li nd icate  when we have f in ished record ing  youranswer  to each quest ion .?
Describe the route you take to work or to the store.?
Tell us something that you like about your hometown.?
Tell us about the climate in your hometown.?
Describe the room you are calling from.?
Describe your most recent meal.?
We now want  you to ta lk  for a longer  per iod  oft ime.
We do not  care what  you say as long asyou keep ta lk ing.
You can tel l  us anyth ing  aboutyourself ,  your  hobb ies  and  interests ,  the city thatyou l ive in,  and  the sports  that  you like.
Or youcan make up  a story, tel l  a fa i ry- ta le  or recitea poem.
You wil l  have 1 minute  to speak.
Wewil l  now give you 10 seconds to th ink  about  whatto say.
P lease do not  read anyth ing ,  we wouldprefer  you make someth ing  up.?
Please begin talking at the beep.
You will hear a secondbeep when you have 10 seconds left.?
For the last question, we would like you to tell us some-thing about yourself in English.
If you do not speakEnglish, you may push any button on your phone, orsimply wait for 20 seconds.
At the beep, please tell ussomething about yourself in English.?
If you are calling from a touch tone phone, please pushthe number 2 button.?
Would you like to receive agift certificate for McDonaldsor for TCBY frozen yogurt??
Thank you for your participation.
If you would like agift certificate please leave your name, address, and giftcertificate selection.
Your name and address will be keptconfidential.To date, the prompts for several of the languages have beenrecorded by native speakers.
We expect to begin collectionfor five languages in March 1994 and then will add five morelanguages every two weeks until the collection is finished.
Theexpected completion data is yet to be determined.2.5.
English Census CorpusIn conjunction with the U.S. Bureau of the Census, CSLUis collecting data to develop a prototype automated censussystem.
Callers were solicited by the Census Bureau; a mem-orandum was sent to regional offices asking Census Bureauemployees, their family members and family friends to call an800 number on a voluntary basis to provide speech data forthe study.
A different 800 number was provided for each city.The cities are Dallas, Chicago, Boston, Charlotte, Atlanta,Philadelphia, Denver, Kansas City, Detroit, and Seattle.Two protocols were used that differed in the wording of someof the prompts.
Each protocol was recorded by both male andfemale speakers.
In addition, male and female synthesizedvoices were used.
Incoming calls were assigned to the eightconditions (prompt X gender X source) in rotation.An interesting feature of the data collection was the use ofautomatic recognition to control the protocol.
Recognition of"yes," "no," "other," and "American Indian" was performedat certain decision points to determine subsequent prompts.This is illustrated in the following protocol:?
Thank  you for ca l l ing the OGI  census pro ject .We apprec ia te  your  help.
The  goal of this  s tudyis to determine  the feasib i l i ty  of us ing  a comput -er ized quest ionna i re  for the Year 2000 Census.Th is  research is sponsored  by the Un i ted  StatesCensus  Bureau.
The  answers  you give to the fol-lowing quest ions  wil l  be  kept  conf ident ia l .
After-wards we wil l  ask you some quest ions  to help useva luate th is  quest ionna i re .
I t wil l  take approx-imate ly  four  minutes  to complete .
Please waitfor the tone  before answer ing  each quest ion.?
Please say your first name.?
Please spell your first name.?
Please say your last name.?
Please spell your last name.?
Please say your middle initial.
If you have no middleinitial, say "none".?
What is your sex, female or male??
We will now ask about your marital status.
Have youever been married?
Please say yes or no.?
( if yes, then) Which one of the following options bestdescribes your current marital status: now married, wid-owed, divorced, or separated?33?
We will now ask about your date of birth.
What monthwere you born??
What day of the month??
What year??
We will now ask about your origin.
Are you of Spanishor Hispanic origin?
Please say yes or no.
Code?
(i\] yes then) Are you of Mexican, Mexican-American or AA1Chicano origin?
Please say yes or no.?
( if no then) Are you of Puerto Pdcan origin?
AA2?
( if no then) Are you of Cuban origin?AA3 ?
( if no then) Please say what other Spanish or Hispanicgroup is your origin.?
Please spell that.
QA?
We will now ask about your race.
Are you: White, Blackor Negro, American Indian, Eskimo, Aleut, or other?
IA1?
( if American Indian, then) What is the name of yourtribe?
IA2?
Please spell that.?
( i f  other, then) Okay.
Are you: Chinese, Japanese,Asian Indian, Korean, Vietnamese, or other?
RC?
( if other, then)Okay.
Are you: Filipino, Hawaiian,Samoan, Guamanian, or other??
(i\] other, then) Please say the name of your race.?
Please spell that.?
Is that the name of an Asian or Pacific Islander ace??
Do you have a telephone at home?
Please say yes or no.
IN?
(if\] yes, then) Please say your home telephone number,area code first.?
Finally, we'd llke some additional information to help uswith our study.
What is your native language??
In what city and state did you spend most of your child-hood?
DK?
Are you a Census Bureau employee??
Th is  conc ludes  the  quest ionna i re  por t ion .
We RFwill  now ask  you  some quest ions  to he lp  us eval-uate  th i s  quest ionna i re .
0?
Would you be willing to provide census information us-ing a questionnaire of this type over the telephone??
In this questionnaire, we asked about your name, sex,marital status, date of birth, origin, race and telephonenumber.
Please tell us about any questions you foundunclear or poorly worded.?
What, if anything, did you like about this questionnaire??
What, if anything, do you suggest we do to improve thisquestionnaire??
We would like to hear any further comments you mayhave.
You may begin speaking at the tone.
When you'rethrough, if you would like a gift certificate to eitherBaskin Robbins, TCBY Yogurt, B. Dalton Books, Mc-Donald's, or Blockbuster Video, please say which oneand leave your marling address.
Thank you for yourhelp.34Each call will be transcribed at the time-aligned word level,including indications of filled pauses and other non-speechevents.
Each utterance will also be assigned a behavior codewhich characterizes the usability of the response.
The behav-ior codes are described in the following table.Full Name MeaningAdequate Answer h Answer is concise andconcise responsive.Adequate Answer 2: Answer is usable butusable not conciseAdequate Answer 3: Answer is responsiveresponsive but not usableQualified Answer An adequate answer inwhich respondent ex-presses uncertainty.Inadequate Answer 1: Answer does not seemunresponsive to be responsiveInadequate Answer 2: Respondent says noth-says nothing ing at all (may havehung up, or may belurking).Request for Clarifica-tionInterruptionA request for clarifica-tion as to the meaningof a concept of surveyquestion.
Not used forrespondent asking fora repeat due to back-ground noise, etc.Respondent interruptsthe speaking of thequestion.
This codeimplies a second codeto account for the con-tent of the interrup-tion.Don't Know "I don't know" or anyother equivalent for-mulation.Refusal Respondent refuses toanswer.Other respondent be-haviorRespondent behaviornot captured in codeslisted above.
Also in-dude request for rep-etition based on nothearing the question.We are in the process of transcribing the calls that have beencollected.
We expect that the transcriptions will be com-pleted and the corpus ready for distribution by September1st, 1994.2.6.
Cellular Words, Numbers and Alpha-bet CorpusThis corpus will consist of up to 600 calls made from cellularphones.
Each caller answers nine questions, says words thatmight be used in voice messaging applications, ays a familiarphone number, and recite?
the letter?
of the English alphabet.Callers are being provided by a private company who helpedfund the data collection.The corpus is being collected using the Gradient TechnologyDesklab over an analog line.
Non-time-aligned word leveltranscriptions are being produced.The protocol for the corpus is:?
Are you calling from a cellular phone??
If you happen to know if you are calling from an analogor digital phone, please say which one.?
Are you using a speaker phone?
* What is your native language?.
Where were you born??
Where did you spend your childhood??
What is the month day and year of your birth?
* Please say your name.?
Please say the name of the company or organization youare with.?
We will now say a set of words, and would likeyou to repeat each word  after you hear it.
Thewords that you speak are intended to be com-mands  to a voice processing system.
When yousay each command,  try to imagine that you aretelling the system what  to do.?
The caller was prompted for  the fo l lowing words one ata t ime.
Each word was presented in the carrier phrase~'Say .
.
.
.
now".Cancel, Change Greeting, Continue, Copy, Erase, Help,Listen, No, Operator, Pause, Replay, Rerecord, Reply,Resume, Review, Save, Send copy, Yes, Add, Dial, Call,Edit, Callback, Change, Delete, Phonebook, Beginning,Choices, End, Directory assistance, Customer support,Next, Repeat, Replay message, Return call, Skip, Tu-torial, Customer care, Verify, Scan, Messages, Message,List, Rewind, Fax, Voice, Print.?
Please say a familiar phone number, one digit at a time.?
We would now like you to recite the English alphabetwith a brief pause between letters, like this: A B C D E.Please hang up when you are finished.
Thanks again.Currently, approximately 300 calls have been collected andtranscribed.
We estimate that the corpus will be ready fordistribution May 1994.2.7.
Words, Numbers and Phrases CorpusWith support from Apple Computer, CSLU is collectingboth analog and digital speech data for utterances relatedto voice messaging and voice control of computer apphca-tions.
Callers are being provided both by Apple Computerand by CSLU through newspaper advertisements.The protocol consists of two questions to help determine thecaller's language background, followed by instructions to re-peat 35 words or phrases given in the prompt.
To increase35the usefulness of the corpus, several sub-vocabularies, includ-ing first names, last names, digits, numbers and days of theweek were inserted into the prompts.
For example, the phrase"phone (first name)" is expanded to 50 different phrases using50 common first names.There are about 350 different phrases that will be recordedfrom different speakers.The goal is to collect 1000 speakers using an Apple MacintoshQuadra A/V and 2000 speakers on the digital T1 systemusing the LINKON setup.The protocol is as follows:?
Thank  you for calling the Center for SpokenLanguage Understanding speech data base.
Weappreciate your willingness to participate inour study.
This research is directly related todeveloping better human computer  interactionthrough the use of voice control.
During thiscall we  will be asking you to answer questionsand repeat phrases.
After each prompt  pleasewait for the beep before responding., First we would like to ask a couple of questions to helpus characterize your speaking patterns.
What is yournative language??
In what city or state did you spend most of your child-hood??
For the rest of this call we  will say a phrase andask you to repeat it.
For example, we  wouldsay "read this text" and you would respond bysaying "read this text".
Please say the phrase asif you were giving a command to a computer.?
play previous message again?
cancel my ten AM appointment?
make a meeting for today?
what is my street address?
quit?
forward this message to my wife?
set-up a call with (firstname) and (firstname)?
conference call (lastname) and (lastname)?
who is at work?
stop?
what is the area code for this state?
add my son to the phone book?
remove number (digit} from the directory?
hello, what are my messages?
skip the next name?
help?
good-bye?
please send a car from the city?
dial (number)?
delete my email tomorrow?
cancel?
read this text?
correct my balance?
call my daughter at eleven pm on (day)?
erase all information?
no?
record extended phonebook?
get my office?
transfer all calls to home at twelve oclock?
use voice?
record urgent message?
yes?
find the operator?
call (firstname)* dial (lastname).
phone (firstname)?
call (number)?
phone (number)?
Thank you for your participation.
If you would like toreceive a gift certificate for either McDonalds, TCBY yo-gurt, B Dalton Books, Blockbuster, or Baskin Robbinsplease leave your name, address, and selection.
You mayhang up when you are done.
Thank you.The data collection is just beginning.
We expect his corpuswill be available September 1994.2 .8 .
OPERA CorpusCSLU is collaborating with the International Computer Sci-ence Institute (ICSI) at Berkeley to develop speech corporafor Open Performance Evaluation of Recognition Algorithms(OPERA).
These corpora win be distributed with designatedtraining and test sets to all researchers who wish to comparerecognition performance on a common task.
Performanceevaluation and summary of results win also be provided.3.
AVAILABIL ITYCSLU is dedicated to promoting progress in the field of com-puter speech recognition.
To this end, corpora are madeavalhble at no charge to academic institutions.
These dataare available once they are completed.
Portions of the En-hanced Multi-Language Corpus have been placed in the pub-lic domain.For information on obtaining any of these corpora, the con-ventions document, or the speech tools, contact Mike Noel atnoel@cse.ogi.edu.4.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe are indebted to the organizations that helped fund theprojects: U.S. Bureau of the Census, ONR, NSF, LinguisticData Consortium, U S West, Digital Equipment Corporation,LINKON Corporation, and Apple ComputerMuch of the corpus development would have been impossiblewithout he dedicated efforts of the labeling and transcribingstaff.
Many thanks are due to Terri Durham, Vince Weath-erhill, Amie Wilson, Victoria Noel, Alexandra Guerra, TroyBailey, Johan Schalkwyk, and many others.Re ferences1.
Terri Lander, S. T. Metzler, The CSL U Labeling Guide,CSLU, Oregon, February, 1994.2.
CSLU.
OGI speech tools user's manual, Technical re-port, Center for Spoken Language Understanding, Ore-gon Graduate Institute, 1993.3.
R. A. Cole, K. Roginski, and M. Fanty, A TelephoneSpeech Database o\] Spelled and Spoken Names, Pro-ceedings of the International Conference on SpokenLanguage Processing, Banff, Alberta, Canada, October1992, pp 891-893.4.
Y. K. Muthusamy, R. A. Cole, and B. T. Oshika, TheOGI multi-language t lephone speech corpus, Proceed-ings of the International Conference on Spoken Lan-guage Proceedings, Banff, Alberta, Canada, October,1992, pp 895-898.5.
James L. Hieronymus, Ascii phonetic symbols for theworld's languages: Worldbet, Journal of the Interna-tional Phonetic Association, 1993.The first OPERA corpus, now under development, consistsof numbers taken from three of the corpora described earlier:the Spelled and Spoken Words Corpus, the Cellular Words,Numbers and Alphabet Corpus, and the English Census Cor-pus.
We estimate the final corpus will consist of about 10,000different numbers.Thus far, we have created numbers files from utterances inthe Spelled and Spoken Names Corpus in which the callerprovided their street address and zipcode.
Speech intervalscontaining numbers found in street addresses, street names(e.g., "fifth") and zip codes were located manually, and newfiles were created containing just the numbers.
From approx-imately 1300 different speakers, 2167 files have been created.Each file has been transcribed at the non-time-aligned wordlevel and at the time-aligned phonetic level.36
