MULTILINGUAL TEXTRESOURCES ATTHE LINGUISTIC DATACONSORTIUMDavid Graft, Programmer AnalystandRebecca Finch, Research CoordinatorLinguistic Data ConsortiumUniversity of Pennsylvania441 Williams HallPhiladelphia, PA 19104-6305ABSTRACTThe Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC) is currently involvedin a major effort to expand its multilingual text resources, inparticular for machine translation, message understandingand information retrieval research.
The main sources for dataacquis i t ion are governmental  and internat ionalorganizations, newswire services, and diverse publishers.This paper describes ome of the research that is being doneto identify potential resources, discusses ome of the processinvolved in negotiating the broadest possible access to thematerial for the human language technology researchcommunity, and identifies key issues and considerations intransducing the text into Common and well documentedformats.1.0 GOVERNMENTAL ANDINTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONSThe LDC has acquired archives from the United Nations, theHansard corpus of transcriptions from Canadianparliamentary debates, hearing and proceedings, and isworking to acquire multilingual archives from threesubsidiaries of the United States Information Agency, Voiceof America, Radio Marti, and Radio Free Europe/RadioLiberty.
A Defense Department publication, MilitaryReview, has also committed a four year archive of English,Spanish and Portuguese text.1.1 The United Nations MultilingualCorpusThe LDC has acquired a five-year electronic text archive ofEnglish, French and Spanish documents of public recordfrom the United Nations.
The documents include theproceedings, resolutions and reports of the GeneralAssembly, the Security Council, UNICEF, the Economic andSocial Council, and numerous othe committees, commisionsand councils within the UN.
The UN has also agreed toprovide its Russian, Arabic and Chinese archives for thesame period.
Russian and Arabic text have been receivedfrom the United Nations in Geneva; the LDC has yet toreceive Russian and Arabic from the UN in New York, and noChinese has been delivered to date.About 60% of the 2.5 gigabytes of English, French andSpanish data that was delivered to the LDC was identified asbeing parallel in all three languages; the remaining 40% ismade up of material that exists in only one or two of thethree languages.
The LDC has not yet begun to determine theextent o which the Russian and Arabic archives are parallelwith the material already received and processed.The UN texts were created and archived on Wang VS computersystems, using an obsolete Wang word processing program.The tapes delivered to the LDC were copied from 80megabyte removable disk packs by means of WangBACKUP.
Each of the Wang programs used its own fileformatting scheme, which had to be reverse-engineered at theLDC so that programs could be written to extract he actualtext data from the tapes.
The LDC's efforts to decipher theWP character encoding, format control codes and filestructure were helped substantially by Dominique Petitpierreof ISSCO, as well as by the technical support at Wang OfficeSystems.The process of sorting the text files into parallel sets andassigning index numbers that identified each document ineach of its translations consisted of the following steps.1) Complete document lists were compiled for each year,containing all entries from all languages for that year.2) Each list was sorted with respect o the UN "job-number"associated with every document in the list.
The UN assignsjob-numbers to documents in roughly chronological order.Each translation of a document is supposed to have a uniquejob-number, although this convention breaks down in asignificant number of cases.
It is generally the case that thevarious language versions receive their numbers in a fixedsequence, with English being first, French second andSpanish fourth.
As a result, within a given year a 3-way18parallel set for a given document should have job numbers ofthe form yy-<x> (English), yy-(<x+l) French, and yy-(x+3)Spanish.There were numerous files in the archives that had receivedno numbers; there were some cases where the numericsequence had nothing to do with parallel relations acrosslanguages, and there were even some cases where verydifferent files were assigned the same number.
For thisreason, we have derived only a 60% yield of parallel datafrom the archives at this point.3) Each list was passed through a procedure that assigned asequence number to every English entry in the list; thesequence number started at 00001 for each year, and wassimply incremented for each English file.
A correspondingnumeric field of 00001 was applied to every French andSpanish entry in the list.4) A specialized string-matching process was applied toeach list to pull out the clear cases of parallel entries: foreach English entry in the list, its sequence number wascopied into the corresponding field of a subsequent French orSpanish entry if such an entry was found to be parallel to theEnglish.
Parallel entries were moved to a list of "matches,"English entries for which no parallels were found, and otherentries that did not match an adjacent English entry, weremoved to a residual list.5) Each residual ist was passed through an interactiveprocess in which a user inspected likely candidates forparallel sets that had failed the previous string-matchingmethod.
The user had the option of inspecting the actualcontents of the text files listed in the candidate sets.
If, afterinspecting the list entries (and possibly the filesthemselves), the user determined that two or three of thecandidate ntries constituted a parallel set, these entries wereselected for addition to the lists of matches.
The remainderwas again left in a residual file.6) The lists of matches were used to drive a process thatcopied each parallel file into its appropriate place in thedirectory tree shown above, according to its language, year,and sequence number.Note that because some English documents did not have anyparallels in French or Spanish, there are gaps in the sequencenumbers within each year.
In other words, only thoseEnglish files having parallels have been included in thisrelease.
Additional parallels are likely to be found as thesource data are examined more closely, and these will bedistributed later to fill in some portions of gaps in thenumeric sequence.To aid users of this corpus in finding the parallels for eachEnglish file in this release, a table has been provided foreach year for each of the three language directories.
Thetables list every English file present in the release by itssequence number, and indicate whether the French or Spanish(or both) versions are also present for that file.
For the years1988-1993, 22,110 English documents, 20,350 Frenchdocuments, and 14,773 Spanish documents are included.The English, French and Spanish texts were transliterated tothe ISO 8859-1 (Latinl) character set, an 8-bit encodingsystem in which accented characters of European languages(and some specialized symbols) are provided in the upperhalf of the 256-character table.
Common 7-bit ASCII, or ISO646, occupies the lower half of the table.In addition, the various WP text formatting control codes(such as line-centering, underlining, indentation, tab-stopsettings, etc.)
were preserved in the form of Standard GeneralMarkup Language (SGML) tags.
Considerable care was takento ensure that the resulting text files are fully SGMLcompatible and parsable.
Important assistance in this effortwas received from David Mckelvie of the HCRC inEdinburgh, Scotlant, for providing a critique and verificationof some extracted samples, and for creating a completeSGML Document Type Definition (DTD) and character setspecification, which will be distributed with the data when itis published.It is not clear at present what solution will be adopted forcharacter encloding in the other three languages.
The LDC iscurrently looking for widely used methods for encodingArabic, Russian and Chinese that also contain romancharacters as a proper subset.
If these are available, SGMLmarkup on these three sets of files can probably beaccomplished in a fairly normal way.
If not, then we willhave to look at ways for revising SGML for use in eachcontext, or we will have to use a different method of markup.We welcome suggestions from users of this type of materialas to ways of moving ahead with this.As a final task, the LDC returned two text archives to theUnited Nations, one to Geneva and one to New York,composed of the entire set of documents in three languagesorganized in a manner directly parallel to the organization ofthe original WANG archives, but converted to WordPerfectformat.This was a service the LDC performed for the UN inexchange for their contribution of the archives for researchpurposes.
The Geneva archive was converted from WANGWP to WordPerfect by Dominique Petitpierre at ISSCO inGeneva, using a utility program called Aladdin Transfer.
TheNew York archive was converted to WordPerfect by runningWordPerfect's Intellitag software against he files once theyhad been tagged with SGML.Once the processing of the last three languages i complete,the LDC intends to return to the United Nations to negotiatefor access to other data resources.
These include the archivesfrom the UN Publications Department and UNESCO archivesin Paris.1.2 The Hansard CorpusTwo large bodies of data composed of French and Englishtranscripts from proceedings of the Canadian Parliamenthave been donated to the LDC by IBM and Bellcore.
The IBMpart of the corpus totals 46.3 million words of French and38.6 words of English, all of which are sentence aligned; thesentences have been systematically scrambled to prevent thecorpus from being used as an information resource.
TheBellcore Hansard consists of roughly 60 million words;19since the file naming conventions used do not permitdistinguishing of the French from the English in a largeportion of the corpus, exact counts of French and Englishwords have not yet been done.The LDC will publish the Bellcore part of the corpussometime in the spring of 1994.1.3 United States Information AgencyThe LDC is working to gain access to multilingual materialfrom three subsidiaries of the United States InformationAgency (USIA), Voice of America (VOA), Radio Marti (RM)and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL).VOA is an information organization with internationalheadquarters in Washington, D.C.
The broadcasting is doneby 46 language services, which are semi-autonomous radiostation staffs organized by linguistic coherence or regionalorientation.
Decisions about where VOA should broadcast toare made by the National Security Council.
Totalbroadcasting time is 1000 hours per week in 47 languages.Each staff adapts a centrally produced English languageproduct through translation, paraphrase or original writingfor dissemination to its particular area.
VOA broadcasts toother countries about the United States.
The languages itbroadcasts in are Albanian, Amharic, Arabic, Armenian,Azerbaijani, Bangla, Bulgarian, Burmese, Cantonese,Creole, Croatian, Czech, Dari, English, Estonian, Farsi,French, Georgian, Hausa, Hindi, Hungarian, Indonesian,Khmer, Korean, Kurdish, Lao, Latvian, Lithuanian,Mandarin, Pashto, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian,Serbian, Slovak, Slovene, Somali, Spanish, Swahili, Thai,Tibetan, Turkish, Ukrainian,' Urdu, Uzbek and Vietnamese.All VOA broadcasts are analog recorded; the LDC has not yetbeen able to ascertain how far back the recordings go.
TheVOA has a computer eadable English language archive ofscripts that is about two gigabytes; it dates back to October1990.
The size of the archives being compiled by theindividual anguage services is unascertainable at this time,because no uniform archiving policy is currently in effect.Radio/TV Marti is a separate organization that broadcasts toCuba 24 hours per day in Spanish only.
Much of its productis extemporaneously produced, that is, no scripts are writtenprior to broadcasts.
Spokespeople for the service state thatthey have a large electronic text archive of Spanish only thatconsists of material transcribed for use as an informationresources; it includes, for example, all of the speeches thatFidel Castro has ever given.
Radio Marti's broadcasts aredigitally recorded.Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty is a USIA subsidiary withinternational headquarters in Munich, Germany.
It broadcastsin 29 languages; its major regional focus is Eastern Europe.It broadcasts to other countries about subject matter otherthan the United States (i.e., it broadcasts to Russia aboutRussia).There are two obstacles that must be overcome in order forthe USIA's resources to be made available to the researchcommunity.
One is a political obstacle, the other a technicalone; both are described here.
To gain the right to access thematerials created by VOA and the Cuban BroadcastingCorporation, the LDC and its host institution, theUniversity of Pennsylvania, must succeed in getting acongressional amendment hrough Congress that willexempt it from a congressionally mandated ban ondissemination of these USIA materials in the United States.The ban was formulated in the Smith-Mundt Act that createdthe USIA in 1948, in a period of time when manycongressional representatives and the public stillremembered the power and influence of state run propogandaorganizations built in countries like Nazi Germany and theSoviet Union.
Fearful of what might happen should anagency like the USIA be allowed to operate within the UnitedStates without restriction, Congress forbade distribution ofany of its materials within the United States.
A procedure wasput into place, however, that allowed for the release ofindividual movies, videos, photographs or scripts; itrequires that Congress pass an amendment authorizing therelease of such materials.
In the forty-four years sinceSmkith-Mundt was passed, thirty-two exceptions to thedissemination ban have been allowed.None of the previously passed exceptions is as allencompassing as the exception that the LDC is requesting,however.
All of the previous exceptions were granted for onemovie, or for all of the photographs taken by one USIAemployee, or for all USIA films, scripts and photographsthat have President Kennedy in them.
The LDC is requestingthat it be given access to all of the electronically readabletext in all of the 47 languages VOA publishes in, as well asits entire archive of recorded speech (assuming that therecordings are of high enough quality to be usable).
It is alsorequesting the same access to Radio/TV Marti's archives.Congressional staff people from Harris Wofford's office havealready made one attempt o get an amendment attached tothe USIA authorization legislation.
This failed, primarily,we believe, because we did not have sufficient ime to gathersupport from LDC's members and the governmentorganizations that LDC distributes data for (ARPA, NIST andthe NSF).
At this point, Wofford's staff is preparing tointroduce the legislation as an amendment to the Foreign Aidauthorizations bill, which will be introduced into committeein April or May of this year.
The LDC will be asking itsmembers to contact their appropriate Senate andcongressional staff people to explain how important heseresources are from the standpoint of the research community.Once the political obstacle is overcome, the technical onewill have to be addressed.
Scripts for all VOA broadcastsexcept those in Tibetan and Cantonese are produced withXerox's Globalview Workstation text processing product, inwhich character encoding is based on a proprietary 24-bitscheme that is not Unicode compatible.
The mapping tablesare not readily accessible from Xerox (it is not even clear ifthey exist at all), and documentation for GlobalView's fileformats is basically a dump of the runtime heap, so that inessence an external program to unscramble it will beequivalent o GlobalView itself.
In order to make themultilingual text resources available, some means has to befound to convert the text created with GlobalView intoUnicode with some well-defined and easily parsed markup.20Such conversion software will have to be developed to run in only recently started trying to determine to what extent hesebatch mode if the entire archive is to be made accessible, services will actually provide parallel resources.1.4 Military ReviewMilitary Review is a publication of the U.S. Department ofof the Army produced in Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.
Thejournal is published in English eleven times per year, and sixtimes per year in Spanish and Portuguese.
The Spanish andPortuguese ditions are primarily translations of articlesfrom the English version.
The editor of the Latin Americanedition has authorized transfer of 2250 megabytes of data tothe LDC; however, since the files are in Interleaf format, alarge percentage of this will be graphical data, so ultimatetext yields cannot be estimated at this time.2.0 FOREIGN LANGUAGENEWSWIREOne of the most important sources for large quantities offoreign language text being developed by the LDC is newsservices, both domestic and foreign.
Currently, the LDC isreceiving multilingual text from both Associated Press andReuters.2.1 Associated PressAssociated Press (AP) Worldstream is an output hat is anamalgamation f all the AP-produced international services.The English language copy usually originates in or is ofinterest o areas outside the United States; the services alsoproduces copy in French, German, Swedish, Dutch andSpanish.
Worldstream is sent in a wire service transmissionenvelope developed by the American newspaper PublishersAssociation (ANPA) for 1200 baud transmisions.
Thecharacter set is not the ANPA standard character set,however, but rather a modified version of the IBM code page850 character set that allows representation of all theaccented characters of the languages contained in the service.Because the output is produced by an editorial staff that iscentrally located in New York City, the expectation is that alarge percentage of the material will be translated andtherefore parallel.
The LDC has not yet determined to whatextent his is the case, however.2.2 ReutersReuters Spanish Language Service originates in Argentina;Reuters Latin American Business Report, which is advertisedas being composed of Spanish, Portuguese and English,originates in Brazil.
These two services are complementedwith Reuters World Service, which provides Englishlanguage text, much of which is paraphrased or translatedfrom or to the other languages.
The LDC receives the data viaa satellite dish installed at the University of Pennsylvania.As with the AP data, Reuters' services are sent in an ANPAtransmission envelope, but three modified ASCII charactertables are used to transmit basic newspaper text, graphicscharacters, and complex numerical data.
Again, the LDC has2.3 Agence France PresseBeginning sometime in the first quarter of 1994, AgenceFrance Presse (AFP) and Xinhua News Agency will begintransmission of their news service products to the LDC.
TheAFP output will be received via satellite, and will becomposed of text in six languages: English, French,German, Spanish, Portuguese and Arabic.
The English,French, German and Spanish services use a unique 7-bitASCII character set developed by AFP.
The Portugueseservice uses a variation of the IBM code page 850 characterset.
The Arabic service uses a proprietary character setdeveloped by AFP for DOS.The English and French services are sent in the ANPAtransmission envelope; the German and Portuguese servicesare sent in the transmission enveloped esigned by theInternational Press Telecommunications Council (IPTC).This is a variation of the ANPA guidelines that takes intoaccount he technical and linguistic differences betweencountries and is designed for use in numerous languages andservices.The degree to which materials in the separate languagenewswires can be expected to be parallel is not known at thispoint.2.4 Xinhua News AgencyThe Xinhua News Agency is unlike most of the other newsagencies in several important respects.
First, it is agovernment news service whose product is centrallyproduced in Mandarin; it produces text in five otherlanguages that is entirely translated (not paraphrased oradapted, as is the case with the other news service agencieswe have been discussing).
The LDC will receive Mandarin inboth GB and BIG 5 format, Spanish and English at the startof its contract with Xinhua.
The service also translates all ofits articles into French, German and Arabic, but theseservices are not transmitted to the U.S. on a regular basis.The LDC is negotiating with Xinhua to receive these latterthree languages on tape or diskette.2.5 Other News ServicesA number of other newswire sources are under negotiation orconsideration.
YONHAP (Korean Press Agency)is aKorean language service that provides about 130 articles perday in Korean and 10-30 articles in English.
This is oneinstance where the vendor has clearly informed us that theEnglish bears little, if any, relation to the Korean material,so the LDC is negotiating for only the Korean text, whichuses only Hangul characters (no Mandarin).
The data istransmitted in 5-bit ASCII in a nonstandard (non-ANPA)transmission envelope.21dpa (German News Agency) produces internationalnews and feature services in German, English, Spanish andArabic.
The LDC is negotiating to receive German andEnglish, although where the service will be received is inquestion at this point.
The English language service isavailable via Associated Press' Datafeature network, andrequires only the installation of a small satellite dish and asmall monthly communication charge.
The German serviceis awfilable in the United States but only in New York orWashington.
Delivery of that service to the LDC at theUniversity of Pennsylvania will require the installation of adedicated telephone circuit from either city.
The cost forinstalling such a line is $3,500+, and the monthlycommunication charge is almost $800.
Clearly, this makesthe expense of this service unreasonable.
The LDC istherefore, looking for a logical collection point in Europe.dpa's service is transmitted in IPTC format.Kyodo News Service provides a financial news servicein Japanese that is primarily oriented toward Japanese banksand corporations in the United States.ITAR-TASS and Interfax are Russian news servicesheadquartered in Moscow.
ITAR-TASS was the official Sovietgovernment news agency until recently.
Interfax was formedin 1989, during the period when Glasnost and Perestroikawere developing, and advertises itself as a news service thatrepresents the ideas of that period.
Both of these servicesprovide substantial material that is written in Russian andtranslated to English.
ITAR-TASS materials are transmittedto the United States via the AP Datafeatures networksatellite; the data is received on a PDP-8 computer and thentransmitted to ITAR-TASS's client base.
The service alsoproduces transcripts of debates and proceedings in theRussian parliament hat are available in the transcribedRussian and translated English.Interfax publishes fifteen daily and weekly reports inRussian and English using Microsoft Word on IBM PCs.
Inaddition to ten daily and weekly business orientedpublications, Interfax also has a 400 megabyte archive ofRussian and English text available.In addition to the above news services, the LDC isinvestigating fifty international news services that offer textin languages that are difficult to acquire; all of these willrequire finding sites in Europe, Hong Kong, and perhapsother places in order for the data to be received.3.0 EUROPEAN CORPUS INITIATIVEThe ECI disk will be published and distributed by the LDCsometime in the first half of 1994.
The disk will containsomewhere between 41-48 subcorpora (the final numberdepending on permissions) in 26 languages with about 92million (lexical) words.
Nine of the subcorpora aremultilingual with parallel data, including the Corpus ofInternational Labour Organization reports.4.0 SPANISH LANGUAGEJOURNALISTIC TEXTA broad range of foreign language publications originatingin North, Central and South America is being contacted fortext acquisitions.
E1 Norte, the Pulitzer Prize winning dailynewspaper from Monterrey, Nueva Leon in Mexico, ismaking 200MB of text available.
Excelsior, a dailynewspaper f om Mexico City, and Nueva Provincia, a dailyfrom Bahia Blanca, Argentina have agreed to makeunspecified amounts of text available.
Contacts withMexican, Central and South American daily newspapers willcontinue to be made for some time.The College Division of McGraw-Hill, Inc. is contributingtext from a number of Spanish language readers andtextbooks.5.0 ENGLISH LANGUAGERESOURCESIn addition to the focus on multilingual resources, the LDC isinvesting considerable time and money in English languagetext resources as well.The LDC has filed a Freedom of Information Act petitionwith the United States Justice Department for acquisition ofthe public domain portions of the JURIS database, whichtotal about 7.5 gigabytes of data.
The Justice Department hasstated that we will receive the data once it has permissionsfrom the 29 agencies and 9 Justice departments o distributethe data.The LDC is also expanding its newspaper holdings.
The DowJones Information News Service (a financial news service),the Wall Street Journal, and the New York Times NewsService (which is composed of 300,000 words per day of theNY Times newspaper and text from several North Americannews services) are all in the process of contract negotiationswith the LDC.
The Los Angeles Times and Washington PostNews Service is considering the LDC's request for access toits data for research purposes.The LDC has also acquired permissions for the PhiladelphiaInquirer newspaper f om Knight Ridder, which also owns theSan Jose Mercury News, which was used in the Tipsterprogram last year.
We are also requesting permissions fromtwo other Knight Ridder papers, the Detroit Free Press andthe Miami Herald.22
