Candide: A Statistical Machine Translation SystemStephen DellaPietra and Vincent DellaPietra, Principal Investigatorssdella@watson.ibm.com, vdella@wat son.ibm.comIBM T.J. Watson Research CenterP.O.
Box 704Yorktown Heights, NY 10598PROJECT GOALSThe Candide project has two objectives.
First, we want to de-velop a fully-automatic, large vocabulary, French-to-Englishtranslation system.
Second, we want to develop an interac-tive translator's workstation that will increase the speed andproductivity of a human translator.
The philosophy of theproject is to combine, within a probabilistic framework, bothstatistical information acquired automatically from bilingualcorpora and linguistic knowledge provided by human experts.RECENT RESULTSSystem OverviewThe automatic system is organized around an analysis-transfer-synthesis architecture.
A French sentence is first an-alyzed into an intermediate structure in which various linguis-tic components are identified.
This structure is then trans-fared to a corresponding structure in English.
Finally, anEnglish sentence is synthesized from the intermediate Eng-lish.The heart of the system is the transfer component.
We viewtransfer from an information-theoretic perspective and attackit with statistical modeling techniques.
Candide's transfercomponent incorporates a stochastic language model that es-timates the probability of an intermediate English structure;a stochastic translation model that estimates the conditionalprobability of a French structure given an English one; and adecoder that, given a French structure, searches for that Eng-lish structure which maximizes the product of the languagemodel and translation model probabilities.Recent ImprovementsOver the past year we improved Candide on several fronts.We increased the sizes of our English and French vocabulariesto 70,000 and 280,000 respectively.
We improved the analy-sis phase by overhauling the morphological tables, refiningthe treatment of numerical expressions and proper names,improving various syntactic transformations, and improvingthe statistical bilingual sense disambiguation module.We enhanced the translation model by using maximum en-tropy techniques to make it more sensitive to context.
Wedeveloped a new language model based upon the recently for-mulated notion of link grammar.
The link grammar modeltakes into account long range correlations between words ina sentence, thus attacking a well-known limitation of our pre-vious trigram model.457Finally, we re-trained all our stochastic models using moretext, including 100 million words from the Wall Street Jour-nal and UPI.Current PerformanceThe table summarizes the gain in performance of our sys-tem between the July 1992 and July 1993 ARPA sponsoredmachine translation evaluations.Fluency Adequacy Time Ratio1992 1993 1992 1993 1992 1998Fully Automatic .511 .580 .575 .670Machine Aided .819 .838 .837 .850 .688 .625Manual .833 .840Fluency and adequacy are scored on scales from 0 to 1, with 1being the highest score.
The time ratio is the factor by whichthe use of the machine-aided system decreases the time spentby a human translator.We also evaluate our automatic translation system on sen-tences of 15 words or less randomly chosen from a test corpusof Canadian parliamentary proceedings.
The 1992 version ofthe system translates 45% of the sentences accurately, whilethe 1993 system translates 62% of the sentences accurately.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAROur strategy is two-pronged.
First, we want to bring thecurrent incarnation of Candide to its full potential, thus es-tablishing a benchmark for our future research.
Second, wewant to begin developing a new version of Oandide that usesmore sophisticated intermediate structures.For the current version, we will enlarge the vocabularies andmake incremental corrections to several analysis and synthe-sis components.
We will also speed-up the decoder so thatwe can perform tests more quickly.
For the next version, wewill continue work on the link grammar language model.
Wewill also begin developing a new translation model that takesadvantage of the enhanced intermediate structures.
