SPOKEN-LANGUAGE RESEARCH AT CARNEGIE MELLONRaj Reddy, Principal InvestigatorSchool of Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213PROJECT GOALSThe goal of speech research at Carnegie Mellon continues tobe the development of spoken language systems that effec-tively integrate speech processing into the human-computerinterface in a way that facilitates the use of computers in theperformance of practical tasks.
Research in spoken lan-guage is currently focussed in the following areas:?
Improved speech recognition accuracy: ImprovingSPHINX-II by better acoustic and language models andmore efficient search algorithms.
Obtaining task-indepen-dent acoustic models and senone mapping tables usinglarge speech corpora.
Developing task-adaptation tech-niques forboth acoustic and language models.?
Fluent human/machine i terfaces: Developing tools thatprovide fluent communication between users and comput-ers by voice and understanding the role of voice in the com-puter interface.?
Robust language modeling: Developing techniques forcombining multiple language training sources to createimproved language models.
Applying new knowledgesources to strengthen xisting language models.?
Understanding spoken language: Developing flexiblerecognition and parsing strategies to cope with spoken lan-guage.
Developing and evaluating methods of integratingspeech recognition and natural language understanding.Developing automatic training procedures for grammars.?
Acoustical and environmental robustness: Extendingenvironment-adaptation pr cedures totelephone channelsand other more difficult environments.RECENT RESULTS?
A task-independent very-large vocabulary version ofSPHINX-II has been developed from 37,000 WSJ utter-antes.
WSJ acoustic models have been adapted to ATIS byuse of pruning and interpolation.
Recognition accuracy hasbeen further improved by the use of phone-dependent code-books and multiple speaker dusters.?
A one-pass trigram langnge model has been implementedthat reduces search time by using a lexical tree.?
An adaptive long.distance language model was created thatreduces pe~lexity by 32%-39% and word error ate by14%-16% over the conventional Izigram.451?
User interaction for the ATIS system has been improved byincorporating clarification and mixed-initiative dialogs,speech output, and form-based displays.?
The Recursive Transition Network grammars used in thoPHOENIX system have been combined with bigram lan-guage models in the A* portion of the recognition searfh ofSPHINX-II.
This reduces sentence understanding errors.?
Error rates for telephone speech and other secondary envi-ronments have been reduced by 40 percent by implement-ing reduced-bandwidth analysis, phone-dopendent cepstralnormalization, and codebook-adaptation procedures.?
A phonetically-lranseribed 100,000-word dictionary hasbeen completed and released to the public.?
SPHINX-II has been adapted for use in CMU's ProjectLISTEN, a prototype r ading coach funded by NSF.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Develop a 100,000-word implementation of SPHINX-IIthat runs in real time and uses less than 50 megabytes.?
Add multiple dynamic language models and other forms ofincremental learning to SPHINX-II.?
Investigate the use of fully-continuous HMMs to take fulladvantage of the large amount of available training data.?
Investigate t chnologies to reduce recognition errorscaused by OOV words.?
Develop speech coding algorithms f~ real time implemen-tation and use compressed speech signal in the speech rec-ognition system.?
Develop techniques for combining multiple language mod-els from different sources, and develop new knowledgesources to s~engthen xisting language models.?
Implement a speech.only interface for a workstation envi-ronment, supporting both command and dictation capabili-ties.?
Continue development and evaluation of systems in whichboth stochastic and grammar-based language model infor-marion are used to improve the speech recognition search.?
Improve the representation of context information and i t srelation to the parser in our Spoken Language System?
Continue to develop methods for automatic acqni~ition ofNatural Language information used by an SLS system.?
Further extend and improve nvironmental robustness.?
Port spoken-language technologies to a new secretarial-assistant task.
