Data Access for Situat ion Handl ing (DASH)J .R .Hobbs ,  P r inc ipa l  Invest igatorArtificial Intell igence CenterSRI Internat ional333 Ravenswood AvenueMenlo Park CA 94025PROJECT GOALSThe objective of this research is to design a tem-plate specification language for representing situationsand creating data structures for storing information ex-tracted from texts.
The language will be used to cre-ate structured escriptions of those aspects of situationsabout which information is required.
These structureddescriptions will function to* characterize the desired information?
guide the process of extracting information fromtexts* provide a representation that can be stored in adatabase for later accessExperience in developing computer systems to extractdata from text has shown that determining how to struc-ture the information for storage in a database and lateruse can be as significant a problem as configuring a nat-urM language system to process texts and extract theinformation.
This should not be surprising, since defin-ing the representation structures i  a special instance ofthe problem of knowledge representation, which is anopen problem of substantial depth.RECENT RESULTSThe main part of our effort in the first phase of DASHhas been close analysis of the templates from MUC-4,MUC-5, and the Warbreaker Message Handling Tasks.We have also attempted to provide templates for thea small set of TREC topic descriptions and narratives.This analysis has been aimed at explicating eneral prin-ciples of template design that might be presented in amanual for template designers.
Specifically we have pro-posed principles involving the following aspects of tem-plate design:1.
The choice of basic ontology2.
Issues of temporal granularity3.
Criteria for choosing among alternative representa-tions of relations4.
How to represent events5.
Entities vs.
Entity Snapshots--time-slices of partsof entities6.
The nature of slot fills7.
The status of backpointersWe shall present a report on this research at the HumanLanguage Technology Workshop.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARWe plan to continue with our specifications of templatesfor TREC topics, with special emphasis on issues involv-ing the representation of spatial and temporal relationsand economic facts.
We shall be looking for generaliza-tions that might generate further principles of templatedesign.
We shall be compiling these principles, with ex-amples of their application, in a preliminary version of amanual for template designers.475
