CONSISTENCY MODELINGHy Murveit, Principal InvestigatorVassilios Digalakis, Peter Monaco, Mitch WeintraubSRI InternationalSpeech Technology and Research LaboratoryMenlo Park, CA 94025PROJECT GOALSSKI's consistency modeling project beg~ inAugust 1992, The goal of the project is to developconsistency modeling technology.
That is, we aim to reducethe number of improper independence assumptions used intraditional speech recognition algorithms so that theresulting speech recognition hypotheses are more self-consistent and, therefore, more accurate.
Consistency isachieved by conditioning HMM output distributions onstate and observations histories, P(x\[s,H).
The goal of theproject is finding the proper form of the probabilitydistribution P, the proper history vector, H, and the properfeature vector, x, and developing the infrastructure ( .g.efficient estimation and search techniques) o thatconsistency modeling can be effectively used.RECENT RESULTSHighlights of our accomplishments to date include a largereduction in our speech recognition error rate due to thedevelopment on Genonic HMM technology, and thedevelopment of a real-time version of our system.
Asummary of our accomplishments include:?
SKI developed and refined Genonlc HMMtechnology.
This is a form of continuous densityI-IMM that, combined with other advances, allowedus to reduce our error rate by over a factor of twoover the past year.
Currently our best performance is9.3% word error as measured on ARPA's 20K Nov.1992 evaluation set and 13.6% on ARPA's 20K Nov.1993 test set, both using ARPA's standard grammars.?
SRI developed an information-theoretic frameworkfor estimating the effect of the history H in theconditional HMM output distribution P(x/s,H) whenH is constrained tobe a previous frames xt_ i.?
SRI implemented a version of continuous local-consistency modeling.
SRI verified that theinformation-theoretic framework above indeedpredicts recognition accuracy improvements.
We473measured performance ofcontinuous localconsistency for several different frame lags.?
SKI developed progressive s arch: a framework forusing hierarchies of recognition algorithm~ ill orderto achieve fast yet accurate speech recognition.?
SKI developed tree-based search schemes forimplementing large-vocabulary speech recognitionsystems.
This resulted in a real-time 20,000recognition system with about 30% word error.?
SKI developed Gaussian shortlist echnology andother techniques for avoiding Gaussian distributionevaluation.
This resulted in a net deecrease ofGanssian evaluations by a factor of 30 with norecognition accuracy degradation.
By combiningthis with the above search technologies, we expectimplement a real-time near full-accuracy speechrecognition i  the near future.?
SKI tran~erred, improved, and evaluated featuremapping technology developed on NSF funding.This allows our system to be virtually microphoneindependent for large classes of microphones.
Forinstnnce, using models developed for a Sennheiserclose-talking microphone, accuracy degraded only10% (5.9% to 6.4% error) when tested on datarecorded with an Audio Technica desk-mountedmicrophone.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAROur plans for the coming year include:?
Advancing the state of our Genonlc ttMMtechnology, including inCOlporating segmentalfeatures to improve the consistency ofhypotheses.?
Implementing real-time near full accuracy I-IMMsystems by combining tree-search, multi-pass andshortlist echnology.?
Further improving and evaluating feature-mappingmicrophone-independent HMM technology.
