ROBUST TEXT PROCESSING AND INFORMATIONRETRIEVALTomek Strzalkowski, Principal InvestigatorDepartment of Computer ScienceNew York UniversityNew York, New York, 10003PROJECT GOALSThe general objective of this research as been the enhance-ment of traditional key-word based statistical methods of doc-ument retrieval with advanced natural anguage processingtechniques.
In the work to date the focus has been on obtain-ing a better epresentation f document contents by extractingrepresentative phrases from syntactically preprocessed textand devising suitable weighting schemes for different typesof terms.
In addition, statistical clustering methods havebeen developed that generate domain-specific term correla-tions which can be used to obtain better search queries viaexpansion.RECENT RESULTSA prototype t xt retrieval system has been developed in whicha robust natural language processing module is integrated witha traditional statistical engine (NIST's PRISE).
Natural an-guage processing is used to (1) preprocess the documents inorder to extract contents-carrying terms, (2) discover inter-term dependencies and build a conceptual hierarchy specificto the database domain, and (3) process user's natural an-guage requests into effective search queries, The statisticalengine builds inverted index files from pre-processed docu-ments, and then searches and ranks the documents inresponseto user queries.
The feasibility of this approach as beendemonstrated in various experiments with 'standard' IR col-lections uch as CACM-3204 and Cranfield, as well as in thelarge-scale evaluation with TIPSTER database.The centerpiece of the natural language processing moduleis the 'ITP parser, a fast and robust syntactic analyzer whichproduces 'regularized' parse structures out of running text.The parser, presently the fastest of this type, is designed toproduce full analyses, but is capable of generating approx-imate 'best-fit' structures if under a time pressure or whenfaced with unexpected input.We also developed and improved the morphological wordstemmer, syntactic dependencies xtractor, and tested severalclustering formulas.
In a close co-operation with BBN, weused their POST part-of-speech tagger which is an essentialpre-processor before parsing.During last year TTP licenses have been issued to several sitesfor research purposes and one commercial license is pending.The main effort during TREC-2 was on generating appropriateterm-based representation f documents for improved searchperformance.
Documents were indexed with a mixture ofstatistical terms (words and stems) and linguistically derivedphrases.
Subsequently a new method for weighting mixedsets of terms has been developed which produced asignificantincrease in retrieval precision.In another effort, in co-operation with the Canadian Instituteof Robotics and Intelligent Systems (IRIS), a number of qual-itative methods for predicting semantic orrectness of wordassociations are being tested.
When finished, these resultswill be used to further improve the accuracy of documentrepresentation with compound terms.PLANS FOR THE COMING YEARA major effort in the coming months is the participation iTREC-3 evaluation.
Work will continue on improved termweighting methods, term derivation and disambiguation tech-niques, and automatic feedback for routing.
More clusteringmethods will be tested ,for generating term similarities, aswell as more effective filters to subcategorize similarities intosemantic lasses.
We plan to move from category B partici-pation (exploratory systems) to category A (full data set).This site has also be~n selected as a TIPSTER Phase 2 con-tractor.
As a part of this contract an integrated system fordocument retrieval and information extraction will be built.We participated in the second Text Retrieval Conference(TREC-2), during which the total of 850 MBytes of WallStreet Journal and San Jose Mercury News articles have beenparsed.
An enhanced version of TrP parser has been devel-oped for this purpose with the average speed generally below0.2 seconds per sentence (approx.
85 words per second).467
