MULTIL INGUAL SPEECH DATABASES AT LDCJohn J. GodfreyLinguistic Data ConsortiumUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104ABSTRACTAs multilingual products and technology grow in importance,the Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC) intends to providethe resources needed for research and development activities,especially in telephone-based, small-vocabulary ecognitionapplications; language identification research; and large vo-cabulary continuous peech recognition research.The POLYPHONE corpora, a multilingual "database ofdatabases," are specifically designed to meet the needs oftelephone application development and testing.
Data setsfrom many of the world's commercially important languageswill be available within the next few years.Language identification corpora will be large sets of spon-taneous telephone speech in several anguages with a widevariety of speakers, channels, and handsets.
One corpus isnow available, and current plans call for corpora of increas-ing size and complexity over the next few years.Large vocabulary speech recognition requires transcribedspeech, pronouncing dictionaries, and language models.
Tofill this need, LDC will use the unattended computer-controlled collection methods developed for SWITCH-BOARD to create several similar corpora, each about one-tenth the size of SWITCHBOARD, in other languages.
Textcorpora sufficient to create useful language models will becollected and distributed as well.
Finally, pronouncing dictio-naries covering the vocabulary of both transcripts and textswill be produced and made available.1.
MULTILINGUAL DATABASESIn its nearly two year history, LDC has assembled sub-stantial resources for linguistic research on English: morethan a half billion words of text, many hundreds of hoursof speech, syntactically tagged corpora, and the begin-nings of a multipurpose l xicon of English syntactic fea-tures, word senses and pronunciations.
With one thirdof its members from outside the US, and with increasinginterest everywhere in expanding the scope of linguis-tic technologies to other languages, LDC is increasinglycalled upon for resources in languages other than En-glish.Other papers in this session describe the efforts underway to secure large and useful bodies of text in otherlanguages, and to develop lexicons or pronouncing dic-tionaries.
This paper will focus on speech corpora, andfor the most part on those which are expected to beavailable in the next year or two.1.1.
Telephone applicationsThis is currently the leading edge of commercial interest,because of the simplicity of most telephone applications,their large scale, and the international and multilingualnature of telecommunication systems.
With the numberof telephone companies and their vendors who belong toLDC, this is and promises to remain a high priority.
Thefirst offerings will be a series of data sets from an inter-national project known as POLYPHONE, in which LDChas played a leadership role.
This multilingual "databaseof databases" is designed to meet the need for:?
adequate training data for the most common tele-phone applications of Sit;?
public evaluation data for each language;?
cross-language comparabil ity of performance;?
a legitimate testbed for language portability.Spec i f i cat ions  of  POLYPHONE databases .
Theidea of a multinational, multilingual, distributed datacollection project was first discussed at a meeting ofthe Coordinating Committee on Speech Databases andAssessment (Cocosda) in October 1992.
In addition toits obvious commercial value for developers of telephonespeech recognition, such a database was thought to be"precompetitive," in the sense that it involves no newknowledge or advanced capabilities, and is designed moreto support general technology research rather than prod-uct development.
To make wide participation possible,the plan was to keep the cost of collection in the rangeof one or two dollars per utterance.In the ensuing months, prospective participants oughtfunding and exchanged e-mail, culminating in a meetingin April 1993 at ICASSP where a set of broad specifica-tions was proposed.
Each POLYPHONE data set would23consist of 125,000 to 200,000 utterances, both read andspontaneous, recorded igitally and without human in-tervention from at least 5000 callers.
The callers were tobe drawn in roughly equal proportions from both sexes,from t\]hree categories of education, and from three ormore age brackets.
The utterances would include digits,strings of digits, spelled words, names of persons andplaces, plus a variety of application-oriented words.The exact content of the vocabulary in each languagewas lefl~ to the local projects and their sponsors, sincethey might wish to choose words or phrases for particu-lar word-based recognition applications such as banking,catalog shopping, speed dialing, etc.
But every data setmust also include several sentences or phrases by eachcaller which, in the ensemble and taken with the otherread items, guarantee balanced phonetic overage of thelanguage in terms of triphones.
Sites may accomplishthis by choosing material from well-known sets of pho-netically balanced sentences, by generating phoneticallybalanced phrases, or by selecting sentences from verylarge text collections by a procedure which optimizesphoneme, diphone, and/or triphone coverage.
The se-lection criteria and phonetic statistics hould be docu-mented with each database.All utterances are to be audited and transcribed or-thographically; criteria and conventions have been sug-gested for accepting or rejecting utterances, and formarking unusual speech and nonspeech events, so thata degree of uniformity across datasets can be expected.Participants are encouraged to collect directly from dig-ital lines wherever possible, leaving the data in the origi-nal a-law or mu-law format.
The goal is to have a collec-tion which is in some sense representative of the acousticsof the national telephone network, to minimize artifactsof collection, and to sample the population of potentialusers of telephone-based speech recognition applications.Thus a certain bias toward more affluent or educatedusers is specifically permitted.The American English contribution, collected for LDC atSRI International \[1\] and described in another paper inthis session, will be the first POLYPHONE corpus to bepublished.
Others are in various tages of development:of Prof. Dirk van Compernolle at Louvain Univer-sity in Belgium.
If funded, this project will takeadvantage of the reusability of much of the Dutchmaterial and software for that language.A Spanish version is now in progress at Texas In-struments (TI) in Dallas.
The participants willbe predominantly native speakers of SouthwesternAmerican Spanish.
The collection platform is an In-terVoice Robotoperator, a commercial product withuser modifiable software that interfaces to a T1 tele-phone line.
Pilot data collection is complete, andfull scale collection will begin soon.
The project ti-tle, "Voice Across Hispanic America," harks back tothe "Voice Across America" effort carried out at TIin 1989 \[2\], \[3\], which was, in many ways, the ances-tor of all these automated telephone data collectionefforts.
"Voice Across Japan," a project at the TI laborato-ries in Tsukuba, Japan, is also in progress \[4\].
Thedesign and planning of this corpus predate POLY-PHONE, and thus there are differences in some pa-rameter choices - more speakers, fewer utterancesper speaker, for example.
Nevertheless, the result-ing database will be generally quite similar to theother POLYPHONE data sets, and TI has expressedwillingness to release it through LDC.A Swiss French corpus is being collected under thedirection of Prof. Gerard Chollet at the InstituteDalle Molle d'Intelligence Artificielle (IDIAP), withsponsorship from the Swiss national telephone com-pany.
The platform will be similar to the one usedin the Netherlands.The Italian telephone laboratory CSELT is alsocollecting a telephone speech corpus of which thePOLYPHONE data will be a subset.
Pilot datacollection took place in December and January.The Taiwanese consortium SIGSLP, which includesthe national telephone laboratories as a member, iscommitted to carrying out a POLYPI-IONE collec-tion in Mandarin, though funding was not receivedon the first try.?
A Dutch version, co-sponsored by the Speech Ex-pertise Centre (SPEX) and the national telephonecompany and supervised by Prof. Louis Boves, ispartly collected and being transcribed.
The PCplatform, telephone interface, and commercial ap-plication programming software used in this projectcost less than $20,000.?
A Flemish version is planned, under the supervision?
Proposals are also under active consideration iother countries, including Denmark and Australia.?
Sponsorship is being sought for German and forstandard French.LDC may also sponsor collection of a separatePOLYPI-IONE corpus from speakers of English asa second language.24To our current knowledge, the costs of collection were aspredicted, but intellectual property rights were a seriousconcern.
In some cases, LDC must still negotiate for theright to distribute the individual POLYPHONE corpora,but most of the sponsors eem willing to allow this, atleast within a few months of completion of the project.Others may wish to distribute on their own terms.Each of these corpora, with transcriptions and sup-porting database tables and documentation, will occupyabout 6 to 10 CD-ROMs; the 200,000 American Englishutterances, for example, average about 4 seconds per file(with some silence around each), so they will amount oabout 6.4 Gbytes of (8-bit mu-law) sampled ata at 8kHz.
Subsets of talkers will be marked for developmentand evaluation testing.1.2.
Language Ident i f i ca t ion  ResearchIn addition to government funded research, there isclearly a basis for commercial interest in this area, sincea language ID algorithm can serve as a gateway to anyother telephone-based application i  much the same wayas speaker ID can.
In order to be useful for language IDresearch, data must be gathered in such a way that selec-tions are otherwise indistinguishable by virtue of chan-nels, talkers, environmental variables, or other artifactsof collection.
This means that most data sets collectedfor any other purpose will almost inevitably be inappro-priate, especially if each language comes from a differentlocation, since even slight channel differences will betraythe language.OGI corpus.
The first publicly available data intendedfor language ID research is a collection of prompted tele-phone responses collected at the Oregon Graduate Insti-tute \[5\], now available from LDC.
It contains peech ineleven languages from about 90 native speakers each.They were recorded at a single site in the US over con-ventional long distance telephone lines, using a PC, anA/D converter, and a telephone interface.The languages are English, Farsi, French, German,Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, Spanish, Tamil, and Viet-namese.
The speech is a mixture of brief responses toquestions (e.g., days of the week) and short monologs (upto a minute) on unrestricted topics.
Up to two minutesof speech was collected from each caller, and there areabout 90 callers for each language.
About ten percentof the calls are transcribed phonetically and aligned intime with the signal; the remainder have been auditedto check for the contents, but not transcribed.The LDC version of the OGI Multilingual corpus on twoCD-ROMs will have a suggested ivision by callers intotraining (50 callers), development test (20), and evalu-ation test (20) subsets for each language.
This divisionis, in fact, being used by NIST in a government technol-ogy evaluation program.
Future data of this type will bepublished as it becomes available.New Corpus in 1995 Another esource which will beuseful for language ID is the CALL HOME corpus, de-scribed in more detail in the next section.
CALL HOMEdata will resemble SWITCHBOARD in being sponta-neous two-way conversational speech with each side be-ing recorded separately.
The calls will be between a-tive speakers of many languages besides English, andalthough all will be initiated from within the US, manywill be international calls.
Since country-specific chan-nel information might betray the language, the completeCALL HOME conversations will probably not be usablefor language identification research.
However, the do-mestic sides, i.e., at least half of each call, should beunbiased and thus appropriate for this purpose.1.3.
Large  Vocabu lary  Speech  Recogn i -t ion  (LVSR)The issue of porting LVSR technology from one languageto another is attracting increasing interest.
For exam-ple, the SQALE project, recently begun in Europe, willapply the ARPA evaluation paradigm next year to threesites, each of which must develop speech recognition ca-pability in at least two languages.
Not only is theremuch interest in the "portability" of speech recognitiontechnology across languages, but there are also researchsystems which use the speech recognition "engine" forother more limited tasks whose dependence on languagemodels is minimal, such as speaker ecognition, wordspotting, and other applications.
How language inde-pendent are these technologies?
Only with comparabledata across everal different languages can such issues beaddressed.CALL HOME The CALL HOME corpus will con-sist of telephone conversations gathered somewhat inSWITCHBOARD style \[6\], that is:?
automatically, with computer prompting but no hu-man intervention;?
digitally, with no A/D conversion except at thespeakers' locations;?
fully duplex, with each side recorded separately;?
from anywhere in the US, using an 800 number;?
transcribed verbatim, at least up to 10 minutes;?
time aligned between signal and transcript, at leastat speakers' turns.25In contrast o SWITCHBOARD, the recordings will be:?
unprompted as to topic;?
international s well as domestic;?
limited to one call per participant;?
uncontrolled as to who is called;?
up to 30 minutes in length.Within the next year, several hundreds of these callswill be recorded and transcribed in Mandarin, Japanese,Spanish, and English; hundreds more will be collectedin other languages and used for language identificationresearch as described in the last section.
If the collectionparadigm proves uccessful, transcription will go forwardon these and other languages in following years.Text Col lections.
To be widely useful, LVSR datasets must include not only speech and transcripts but alanguage model (or texts from which to construct one),and, in most cases, a pronouncing dictionary.
The sim-plest, and in fact perhaps the only practicable meansof providing the amount of text required to build usefullanguage models in several different languages i to ac-quire newspaper or newswire texts in bulk.
LDC plans tomake available on CD-ROM, therefore, tens of millions ofwords in Japanese and Mandarin, and perhaps 100 mil-lion in Spanish.
The majority of this will be acquired bydaily spooling of newswire services.
Apart from the useof the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML)for demarcation of the higher level units, details of theformats in which these texts will be distributed is stillopen for discussion.Lexicons.
Pronouncing dictionaries will be producedfor the main CALL HOME languages, i.e., those forwhich transcripts are produced.
The current design callsfor each lexicon to cover the pronunciation and part ofspeech of at least all the words used in the CALL HOMEtranscripts, the words in the text corpora used for lan-guage models, and any accidental gaps in the "core vo-cabulary" of the language after that.
The definition ofthe "core," and any other information that might beprovided, will depend on the language and on what re-source materials are available at the time the lexicon isdeveloped.
A more detailed description of this projectis given in the companion paper in this session by MarkLiberman.References1.
J. Bernstein, K. Taussig, and J. Godfrey, "MACRO-PHONE: An American English Telephone SpeechCorpus For the POLYPHONE Project," ProceedingsICASSP-94.2.
B. Wheatley and J. Picone, "Voice Across America: To-ward Robust Speaker Independent Speech RecognitionFor Telecommunications Applications", Digital SignalProcessing: A Review Journal, vol.
1, no.
2, pp.145-64,April 1991.3.
J. Picone and B. Wheatley, "Voice Across America:A Step Towards Automatic Telephone Transactions,"Voice Processing Magazine, pp.
146-47, February 1991.4.
T. Staples, J. Picone, K. Kondo, and N. Arai, "TheVoice Across Japan Database: The Japanese LanguageContribution To POLYPHONE," Proceedings ICASSP-94.5.
Y. Muthusamy, R. Cole, and B. Oshika, "The OGIMulti-Language Telephone Speech Corpus", ProceedingsICSLP-92, pp.
895-898.6.
J. Godfrey, E. Holliman, and J. McDaniel, "SWITCH-BOARD: Telephone Speech Corpus for Research andDevelopment," Proceedings ICASSP-92, pp.
I517-I520.895-898.26
