RESEARCH IN NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSINGRalph Grishman, Principal InvestigatorDepartment  of  Computer  ScienceNew York Univers i tyNew York, NY  10003PROJECT GOALSOur central research focus is on the automatic acquisitionof knowledge about language (both syntactic and semantic)from corpora.
We wish to understand how the knowledge soacquired can enhance natural language applications, includ-ing document retrieval, information extraction, and machinetranslation.
In addition to experimenting with acquisitionprocedures, we are continuing to develop the infrastructureneeded for these applications (grammars and dictionaries,parsers, evaluation procedures, etc.
).The work on information retrieval and supporting technolo-gies (in particular, robust, fast parsing), directed by TomekStrzalkowski, is described in a separate page in this section,as well as a paper in this volume.RECENT ACCOMPLISHMENTS?
Extended earlier work on the acquisition of semanticpatterns from syntactically-analyzed corpora, and on thegeneralization of these patterns using word similaritymeasures obtained from the corpora.
Measured the cov-erage of the collected patterns as a function of corpussize, and compared this with an analytic model for suchcoverage.?
Participated in Message Understanding Conference - 5.Substantially extended our lexical preprocessor toiden-tify company names, people's names, locations, etc.Added an acquisition tool for lexico-semantic models,which allows users to specify correspondences betweenlexical and semantic structures through example sen-tences.?
Organized meeting for planning of Message Understand-ing Conference - 6.
Coordinated efforts for developingthe different corpus annotations which will be required.
(These plans and annotations are described in a separatepaper in this volume.)?
Developed improved procedures for the alignment ofsyntactic structures in sentences drawn from parallelbilingual corpora.
The goal of this effort is to auto-matically learn transfer rules for a machine translation466system from a bilingual corpus; the starting point is an(incomplete) set of word correspondences from a bilin-gual dictionary.
Demonstrated (using a small Spanish-English corpus) that an iterative algorithm, which usesinitial alignments to obtain additional correspondencesbetween words and between grammatical roles, can yieldbetter final alignments.
(This work is also supported bythe National Science Foundation.
)Continued studies of appropriate f ature structures for acommon, broad-coverage syntactic dictionary of English(COMLEX).
This work complemented the ongoing ef-fort for creation of COMLEX, which is being supportedby ARPA through the Linguistic Data Consortium.
(Thework on COMLEX is described in a separate paper inthis volume.
)PLANS FOR THE COMING YEAR?
Extend earlier work on stocastic grammars for pars-ing: experiment with alternative word contexts for usein computing conditional probabilities; experiment withalternative search algorithms to obtain speed/preecisiontrade-offs.?
Continue work on semantic pattern acquisition proce-dures.
Experiment with alternative measures of wordsimilarity for use in generalizing patterns extracted fromcorpora.?
Continue planning for MUC-6.
Coordinate fforts todevelop specifications and annotated corpora for namedentities, predicate-argument structure, coreference, andword sense information; to develop scoring rules for thedifferent evaluations; and to define tasks for MUC-6 dryrun in Fall 1994.Apply bilingual alignment algorithm to larger corpora.Develop generalization algorithms for transfer rules ex-tracteed from bilingual corpus.
