SESSION 10: GOVERNMENT PANELOscar N. Garcia, ChairInteractive Systems ProgramDivision of Information, Robotics, and Intelligent SystemsComputer, Information Science, and EngineeringNational Science Foundationogarcia@nsf.govABSTRACTThe Workshop included an extended group ofpresentations by selected US government agencies andan invited guest from the European Community.
Thesepresentations, amplified in the following pages,indicated the importance given to speech and naturallanguage research and development, and the approach ofeach agency to adapt heir philosophy and activities tothose aspects which they considered most important totheir charter.
Reactions from the audience were takenwithin the time allocated to the presentations.SUMMARY STATEMENTSThe first presentation was by Calvin Olano of theDepartment of Defense, where he has been involvedover the years in the development and acquisition ofspoken language systems.
His remarks, while mostlyoriented to the ARPA spoken language research efforts,were broadly applicable to other human languagetechnology programs.
His presentation emphasized theadvantages of tuning the system design to takeadvantage of the characteristics of the task at hand.
Heenvisioned not only imposing the statistical andarchitectural constraints of the specific task but alsoincluding higher level semantic onstraints in specificsystems.
He proposed an "infinite data" paradigm inwhich vocabulary limitations on recognition were lifted.Comments from the audience included the need to havegeneral systems and algorithms that did not suffer fromtask- imposed constraints in their effectiveness.The second presentation was about the researchunderway at the Naval Research Laboratory.
Thespeaker was Dr. Helen Gigley, Head of the HumanComputer Interaction (HCI) Laboratory at NRL, whocovered not only the human language technology (HLT)research and development in their HCI laboratory butalso work at the Navy Center for Applied Research inArtificial Intelligence (NCARAI), both groups housedwithin the Information Technology Division of NRL.In particular, video-taped demonstrations were shownand the evaluation processes in their investigations ofnarrow-band speech and multimodal communicationwere explained, as well as the work on spoken languageand graphics interaction at NCARAI.
Questions andanswers addressed the porting of ARPA supported HLTWork (Sphinx II) to new platforms and new applicationsat NRL.This presentation was followed by Dr. Melissa Hollandof the U.S. Army Research Institute who described theirwork in the development ofeducational tools for the useof NLP techniques in the teaching and maintenance oflanguage skills other than English, as driven by Armyneeds.
The products of the exploratory developmentwork are sufficiently well-developed prototypes thatthey are used in language labs and evaluation researchenvironments.
Languages covered included German,Arabic and Spanish, often using tools developed in theARPA Planning program such as the KB and discoursetracker, with a deliberate orientation towards dual use ofthe developed technology.
The Q&A period includedan exchange relating to the near future orientation andwork done by the language program within the ARI.The presentation by Dr. Y. T. Chien, Director of theInformation, Robotics, and Intelligent SystemsDivision at NSF, focused on the National InformationInfrastructure (NII) related committees in which heparticipates.
Three areas were singled out: the TaskGroup which he, representing NSF, co-chairs with anARPA representative on the new HPCC componentcalled Information Infrastructure Technology andApplications (IITA); the work, co-chaired with NASAon Virtual Reality; and finally, the NII TechnologyPolicy Group chaired by ARPA.
All these groups295cover multimodal activities involving speech.
Inparticular, Q&As addressed the NSF/ARPA initiativeon HLT, which had just been awarded, and the broadrange of aspects covered.The final presentation was made by Dr. Nino Varile,Scientific Technical Manager of the Linguistic Researchand Engineering (LRE) Programme of the EuropeanUnion.
The programme described involves applicationprojects, tools and resources, standardization andapplied research.
Particular projects ingled out were thedevelopment of a common software platform andconsensus  building approaches for encoding.Additionally, an international collaborative project withNSF to carry out a survey of the state-of-the-art in NLPand speech, was mentioned.
Questions were related tothe industrial collaborative orientation of theprogramme which was acknowledged bythe speaker.FINAL DISCUSSIONA lively discussion followed in which approaches tostandardization, testing, and user input versus leadershipby imaginative technology managers were contrasted, inparticular with regards to the ARPA program and that ofthe European Union.
After some interesting argumentsit was agreed that, while looking at the needs of theusers is a necessary part of the development process, theuser is often not the best judge of the Ix)tenfial ways inwhich the technology to solve the user's problems canbe applied to expanded benefits.
Both sides of theAtlantic agreed that a combination of user input withenlightened technology leadership is the best approachand that rather similar approaches were used in bothcontinents.296
