French-English Terminology Extraction fromComparable CorporaBe?atrice Daille and Emmanuel MorinUniversity of Nantes, LINA - FRE CNRS 2729,2, rue de la Houssinie`re - BP 92208, 44322 Nantes Cedex 3, France{beatrice.daille, emmanuel.morin}@univ-nantes.frAbstract.
This article presents a method of extracting bilingual lexicacomposed of single-word terms (SWTs) and multi-word terms (MWTs)from comparable corpora of a technical domain.
First, this method ex-tracts MWTs in each language, and then uses statistical methods toalign single words and MWTs by exploiting the term contexts.
After ex-plaining the difficulties involved in aligning MWTs and specifying ourapproach, we show the adopted process for bilingual terminology ex-traction and the resources used in our experiments.
Finally, we evaluateour approach and demonstrate its significance, particularly in relation tonon-compositional MWT alignment.1 IntroductionTraditional research into the automatic compilation of bilingual dictionaries fromcorpora exploits parallel texts, i.e.
a text and its translation [17].
From sentence-to-sentence aligned corpora, symbolic [2], statistical [11], or combined [7] tech-niques are used for word and expression alignments.The use of parallel corpora raises two problems:?
as a parallel corpus is a pair of translated texts, the vocabulary appearingin the translated text is highly influenced by the source text, especially fortechnical domains;?
such corpora are difficult to obtain for paired languages not involvingEnglish.New methods try to exploit comparable corpora: texts that are of the same texttype and on the same subject without a source text-target text relationship.
Themain studies concentrate on finding in such corpora translation candidates forone-item words.
For example, the French SWT manteau is translated in Englishby mantle in the domain of forestry, shield in the domain of marine activities,and by coat in the domain of clothing.
The method is based on lexical contextanalysis and relies on the simple observation that a word and its translation tendto appear in the same lexical contexts.
Thus, for our three possible translationsof manteau, three different lexical contexts are encountered which are expressedbelow by English lexical units:R. Dale et al (Eds.
): IJCNLP 2005, LNAI 3651, pp.
707?718, 2005.c?
Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2005708 B. Daille and E. Morin?
manteau/mantle : vegetation, forest, wood.
.
.?
manteau/shield : boat, sea, shipbuilding.
.
.?
manteau/coat : cloth, cold, wear.
.
.These contexts can be represented by vectors, and each vector element representsa word which occurs within the window of the word to be translated.
Translationis obtained by comparing the source context vector to each translation candidatevector after having translated each element of the source vector with a generaldictionary.
This method is known as the ?direct context-vector approach?.
Usingthis method, [10] extracts English-Chinese one-item candidate translations fromtwo years of English and Chinese newspaper articles by matching the contextvector with 76% precision on the first 20 candidates.
From English-Germannewspaper corpora of 85 million words, [14] improves the precision to 89% on thefirst one-item 10 candidates using the same techniques.
[4] obtain 50% precisionon the first one-item 10 candidates from a French/English corpus of 1.2 millionwords.
[1] adapted this approach to deal with many-to-many word translations.In extracting English-Chinese nominal phrases belonging to general domainsfrom the web, they obtain a precision of 91% on the first 3 candidates.Some improvements have been proposed by [9] to avoid the insufficient cov-erage of bilingual dictionary and thus not to get context vectors with too manyelements that are not translated.
This method is called ?similarity-vector ap-proach?
: it associates to the word to be translated the context vectors of thenearest lexical units that are in the bilingual dictionary.
With this method, theyobtain for one-item French-English words 43% and 51% precision on the ten andtwenty first candidates applied on a medical corpus of 100 000 words (respec-tively 44% and 57% with the direct method) and 79% and 84% precision on theten and twenty first candidates applied on a social science corpus of 8 millionswords (respectively 35% and 42% with the direct method).If the results obtained in the field of bilingual lexicon extraction from compa-rable corpora are promising, they only cover either bilingual single words fromgeneral or specialised corpora, or bilingual nominal phrases from general corpora.Our goal is to find translation for multi-word terms (MWTs) from specialisedcomparable corpora.If MWTs are more representative of domain specialities than single-wordterms (SWTs), pinpointing their translations poses specific problems:?
SWTs and MWTs are not always translated by a term of the same length.
Forexample, the French MWT peuplement forestier (2 content words) is trans-lated into English as the SWT crop and the French term essence d?ombre (2content words) as shade tolerant species (3 content words).
This well-knownproblem, referred to as ?fertility?, is seldom taken into account in bilinguallexicon extraction, a word-to-word assumption being generally adopted.?
When a MWT is translated into a MWT of the same length, the targetsequence is not typically composed of the translation of its parts [13].
Forexample, the French term plantation e?nerge?tique is translated into English asfuel plantation where fuel is not the translation of e?nerge?tique.
This propertyis referred to as ?non-compositionality?.French-English Terminology Extraction from Comparable Corpora 709?
A MWT could appear in texts under different forms reflecting either syn-tactic, morphological or semantic variations [12],[5].
Term variations shouldbe taken into account in the translation process.
For example, the Frenchsequences ame?nagement de la fore?t and ame?nagement forestier refer to thesame MWT and are both translated into the same English term: forest man-agement.We propose tackling these three problems, fertility, non-compositionality, andvariations, by using both linguistic and statistical methods.
First, MWTs areidentified in both the source and target language using a monolingual termextraction program.
Second, a statistical alignment algorithm is used to linkMWTs in the source language to single words and MWTs in the target language.Our alignment algorithm extracts the words and MWT contexts and proposestranslations by comparing source and target words and MWT contexts.2 Extraction ProcessWe present in this section the bilingual extraction process which is composed oftwo steps:1.
Identification in source and target languages of MWTs and their variations;2.
Alignment of theses MWTs using a method close to the ?similarity-vectorapproach?.2.1 MWT IdentificationMWTs are extracted using a terminology extraction program available for Frenchand English: ACABIT 1.
This program is open source and one of its character-istics is to take into account variants of MWTs (graphical, inflectional, syntac-tic, and morphosyntactic)[6].
It does not need any external linguistic resourcesand is domain-independent.
ACABIT applies on a corpus with the followingpre-processing:?
tokenisation and sentence segmentation;?
part-of-speech and lemma tagging.First, ACABIT carries out shallow parsing: it scans the corpus, counts andextracts strings whose tag sequences characterise patterns of MWTs or one oftheir variants.
The different occurrences referring to a MWT or one of its variantsare grouped and constitute an unique candidate MWT.
Thus the candidateMWT produit forestier ?forest product?
appears under the following forms:1 http://www.sciences.univ-nantes.fr/info/perso/permanents/daille/ and LINUXMandrake release710 B. Daille and E. Morin?
base form: produit forestier ;?
graphical variant: produit fo-restier, pro-duit forestier ;?
inflexional variant: produits forestiers ;?
syntatic variant: modification: produit non forestier, produit alimentaireforestier, produit fini d?origine forestie?re, produit ligneux non forestier ;?
syntactic variant: coordination: produit halieutique et forestier, produitagricole ou forestier, le produit et le service forestier.The MWT candidates produit de la fore?t, produit agroforestier, non-produit agro-forestier, and sous-produit forestier, sous-produit de la fore?t have also been iden-tified.Second, ACABIT performs semantic grouping thanks to the followingoperations:Merging of two MWTs.
Two MWT candidates are merged if they are syn-onymic variants obtained by derivation or conversion.
Such variants in-clude a relational adjective: either a denominal adjective, i.e.
morphologi-cally derived from a noun thanks to a suffix, such as fore?t/forestier ?forest?,or an adjective having a noun usage such as mathe?matique ?mathemati-cal/mathematics?.Dissociation of some MWT variants.
Syntactical variants that induce se-mantic discrepancies are retrieved from the set of the candidate variantsand new MWT candidates are created.
Modification variants with the in-sertion of an adverb of negation denoting an antonymy link such as produitnon forestier ?non forest product?
and produit forestier ?forest product?, orinsertion of a relational adjectives denoting an hyperonymy link such as pro-duit alimentaire forestier ?food forest product?
with produit forestier ?forestproduct?
[6].Grouping of MWTs.
All MWT candidates linked by derivational morphol-ogy or by variations inducing semantic variations are clustered.
For exam-ple, the following MWT candidates constitutes a cluster of MWTs: produitforestier/produit de la fore?t, produit non forestier, non-produit agroforestier,produit agroforestier, sous-produit forestier/sous-produit de la fore?t, produitalimentaire forestier andproduit forestier.In the following steps, we do not consider a unique sequence reflecting acandidate MWT but a set of sequences.
We consider only term variants thatare grouped under a unique MWT.
This grouping of term variations could beinterpreted as a terminology normalisation in the same way as lemmatisation atthe morphological level.2.2 MWT AlignmentThe goal of this step, which adapts the similarity vector-based approach definedfor single words by [9] to MWTs, is to align source MWTs with target singlewords, SWTs or MWTs.
From now on, we will refer to lexical units as words,SWTs or MWTs.French-English Terminology Extraction from Comparable Corpora 711Context Vectors.
First, we collect all the lexical units in the context of eachlexical unit i and count their occurrence frequency in a window of n sentencesaround i.
For each lexical unit i of the source and the target language, we obtain acontext vector vi which gathers the set of co-occurrence units j associated withthe number of times that j and i occur together occij .
We normalise contextvectors using an association score such as Mutual Information or Log-likelihood.(cf.
equations 1 and 2 and table 1).
In order to reduce the arity of context vectors,we keep only the co-occurrences with the highest association scores.Table 1.
Contingency tablej ?ji a = occ(i, j) b = occ(i, ?j)?i c = occ(?i, j) d = occ(?i, ?j)MI(i, j) = loga(a + b)(a + c)(1)?
(i, j) = a log(a) + b log(b) + c log(c) + d log(d)+(a + b + c + d) log(a + b + c + d) ?
(a + b) log(a + b)?
(a + c) log(a + c) ?
(b + d) log(b + d) ?
(c + d) log(c + d)(2)Similarity Vectors.
For each lexical unit k to be translated, we identify thelexical units which the context vectors are similar to vk thanks to a vectordistance measure such as Cosine [15] or Jaccard [16] (cf.
equations 3 and 4).From now, we call ?similarity vector?
of the unit k a vector that contains all thelexical units which the context vectors are similar to vk.
To each unit l of thesimilarity vector vk, we associate a similarity score similvkvl between vl and vk.In order to reduce the arity of similarity vectors, we keep only the lexical unitswith the highest similarity scores.
Up to now, similarity vectors have only beenbuilt for the source language.similvkvl =?t assoclt assockt?
?t assoclt2assockt2(3)similvkvl =?t min(assoclt, assockt )?t assoclt2+?t assockt2 ?
?t assoclt assockt(4)Translation of the Similarity Vectors.
Using a bilingual dictionary, wetranslate the lexical units of the similarity vector and identify their contextvectors in the target language.
Figure 1 illustrates this translation process.Depending the nature of the lexical unit, two different treatments arecarried out:712 B. Daille and E. MorinTRANSLATIONSOURCE LANGUAGE TARGET LANGUAGEclose vectorclose vectorclose vectorclose vectorclose vectorCandidate translationsaverage vectoraverage context vectorsimilarity vectorscontext vectorscontext vector of the lexical unit to be translatedMWT to be translatedcontext vector of the candidate translationsFig.
1.
Transfer procedure of similarity vectors from source to target languageTranslation of a SWT.
If the bilingual dictionary provides several transla-tions for a word belonging to the similarity vector, we generate as manytarget context vectors as possible translations.
Then, we calculate the unionof these vectors to obtain only one target context vector.Translation of a MWT.
If the translation of the parts of the MWT are foundin the bilingual dictionary, we generate as many target context vectors astranslated combinations identified by ACABIT and calculate their union.When it is not possible to translate all the parts of a MWT, or when thetranslated combinations are not identified by ACABIT, the MWT is nottaken into account in the translation process.Finding the MWT Translations.
We calculate the barycentre of all thetarget context vectors obtained in the preceding step in order to propose atarget average vector.
The candidate translations of a lexical unit are the tar-get lexical units closest to the target average vector according to vectordistance.3 Resources PresentationWe present in this section the different resources used for our experiments:3.1 Comparable CorpusOur comparable corpus has been built from the Unasylva electronic internationaljournal published by FAO2 and representing 4 million words.
This journal deals2 http://www.fao.org/forestry/foris/webview/forestry2/French-English Terminology Extraction from Comparable Corpora 713with forests and forest industries and is available in English, French and Spanish.In order to constitute a comparable corpus, we only select texts which are notthe translation of each other.3.2 Bilingual DictionaryOur bilingual dictionary has been built from lexical resources on the Web.
Itcontains 22,300 French single words belonging to the general language with anaverage of 1.6 translation per entry.3.3 Reference Bilingual TerminologyThe evaluation of our bilingual terminology extraction method has been donefrom a reference bilingual terminology.
This reference list has been built fromthree different terminological resources:1. a bilingual glossary of the terminology of silviculture3.
It contains 700 termsof which 70% are MWTs.2.
the Eurosilvasur multilingual lexicon4.
It contains 2,800 terms of which 66%are MWTs.3.
the multilingual AGROVOC thesaurus5.
It contains 15,000 index terms ofwhich 47% are MWTs.These three terminological resources are complementary, the glossary being themost specialised, the thesaurus the least.
From these resources, we automaticallyselect 300 terms with the constraint that each French term should appear at least5 times in our corpus.
These terms are divided into three sub-lists:?
[list 1] 100 French SWTs of which the translation is an English SWT.
Ofcourse, this translation is not given by our bilingual dictionary.?
[list 2] 100 French MWTs of which the translation could be an English SWTor a MWT.
In the case of MWTs, the translation could not be obtained bythe translation of the MWT?s parts.?
[list 3] 100 MWT of which the translation is an English MWT.
The transla-tion of these MWTs is obtained by the translation of their parts.This reference list contains a majority of terms with low frequency (cf.Table 2).
Two main reasons explain this fact: on the one hand, the differentresources which have been used to build this reference list are either specific orgeneric; on the other hand, our corpus covers several domains linked to forestryand does not constitute a highly specialised resource.3 http://nfdp.ccfm.org/silviterm/silvi f/silvitermintrof.htm4 http://www.eurosilvasur.net/francais/lexique.php5 http://www.fao.org/agrovoc/714 B. Daille and E. MorinTable 2.
Frequency in the corpus of the French terms belonging to the reference list# occ.
< 50 ?
100 ?
1 000 > 1 000[list 1] 50 21 18 11[list 2] 54 21 25 0[list 3] 51 18 29 24 EvaluationWe present now the evaluation of the bilingual terminology extraction.
We haveto deal with 55 013 SWTs and MWTs, but only 7 352 SWTs and 6 769 MWTsappear both in the reference bilingual terminology and in the corpus.4.1 Parameter EstimationSeveral parameters appear in the extraction process presented in Section 2.
Themost interesting results have been obtained with the following values:?
Size of the context window is 3 sentences around the lexical unit to betranslated;?
Context vectors are built only with one-item words to increase representa-tivity.
For example, the context vector of the French term de?bardage ?hauling?includes the MWT tracteur a` chenille ?crawler tractor?
which is more dis-criminating than its parts, tracteur or chenille.
But including MWTs intocontext vectors increases the vectorial space dimension and reduces the rep-resentativity of the terms appearing both in the corpus and the referencebilingual terminology.
The term de?bardage ?hauling?
has a frequency of 544as a SWT and only a frequency of 144 as part of a MWT as it appears inseveral MWTs.
The context vector size are limited to the first 100 values ofthe Log-likelihood association score.?
Similarity vectors are the first 30 values of Cosine distance measure.?
Finding translations is done with Cosine distance measure.4.2 Result AnalysisTable 3 gives the results obtained with our experiments.
For each sublist, wegive the number of translations found (NBtrans), and the average and standarddeviation position for the translations in the ranked list of candidate translations(AV Gpos, STDDEVpos).We note that translations of MWTs belonging to [list 3] which are composi-tionally translated are well-identified and often appear in the first 20 candidatetranslations.
The translations belonging to [lists 1 and 2 ] are not always foundand, when they are, they seldom appear in the first 20 candidate translations.The examination of the candidate translations of a MWT regardless of thelist to which it belongs shows that they share the same semantic field (cf.
table 5).French-English Terminology Extraction from Comparable Corpora 715Table 3.
Bilingual terminology extraction resultsNBtrans AV Gpos STDDEVpos|list 1] 56 32.9 23,7[list 2] 63 30.7 26,7[list 3] 89 3.8 7,9Table 4.
Bilingual MWT extraction with parameter combinationNBtrans AV Gpos STDDEVpos Top 10 Top 20|list 1] 59 16.2 15.9 41 51[list 2] 63 14.8 22.3 45 55[list 3] 89 2.4 3.7 87 88Table 5.
Exemples of candidate translations obtained for 3 terms belonging to [list 2]degre?
de humidite?
gaz a` effet de serre papeterie(# occ.
41) (# occ.
33) (# occ.
178)humidity carbon newsprintsaturation carbon cycle paper productionaridity atmosphere raw materialevaporation greenhouse gas millsaturation deficit greenhouse pulp millrate of evaporation global carbon rawatmospheric humidity atmospheric carbon manufacturewater vapor emission paper milljoint sink manufacturingdry carbon dioxide capacityhot fossil fuel printingrainy fossil paper manufacturetemperature carbon pool factorymoisture control mitigate paperboardmeyer global warming fiberboardparty climate change bagasseatmospheric atmospheric paper-makingdryness dioxide boardmonsoon sequestration material supplyjoint meeting quantity of carbon paper pulpAs noted above, our results differ widely according the chosen parameter values.Because of time constraints, we cannot evaluate all the possible values of all thedifferent parameters, but manual examination of the candidate translations fora few different configurations shows:716 B. Daille and E. Morin?
Some good translations obtained for one parameter configuration are notfound for another, and, inversely, some terms which are not translated inthe first configuration could be correctly translated by another.
So, it isdifficult to choose the best configuration, especially for [lists 1 and 2].?
More precisely, for a given term, the first candidate translations are differentfor different configurations.
For example, for the French MWT pa?te a` papier(paper pulp), the first 50 candidate translations of 20 different configurationshave only 30 items in common.?
The right translation appears in different positions for different configura-tions.In order to identify more correct translations, we decided to take into accountthe different results proposed by different configurations by fusing the first 20candidate translations proposed by each configuration.
The different configura-tions concern the size of the context and similarity vectors, and the associationand similarity measures.
The results obtained and presented in Table 4 show aslight improvement in the position of the correct translations among the set ofcandidate translations.The results for [list 3] are still very satisfactory.
The results for [list 1] improve,but remain a little below the results obtained by [8] who obtained 43% and 51%for the first 10 and 20 candidates respectively for a 100,000-word medical corpus,and 79% and 84% for a multi-domain 8 million word corpus.4.3 CommentIn a general way, it is difficult to compare our experiments to previous ones[3],[8] as the corpora are different.
Indeed, our comparable corpus covers severaldomains belonging to forestry, and does not constitute a very specialised re-source on the contrary of the medical corpus of [3] built thanks to the key words?symptoms, pathological status?.
Moreover, half of the terms of the referencebilingual terminological database have a frequency of less than 50 occurrences inthe corpus that lead to non-discriminating context vectors.
[8] use for their ex-periments a social sciences corpora of 8 millions words and a reference bilingualterminological database of 180 words with high frequencies in the corpus: from100 to 1000.
Our automatic evaluation is also more constrained than manualevaluation.
For example, our reference list gives haulage road as the transla-tion of piste de de?bardage.
In our candidate translation list, haulage road is notpresent.
We find an acceptable translation, skid trail, in the first 20 candidates,but this is never considered valid by our automatic evaluation.Our results for MWTs are better than those for single words.
The method seemspromising, especially for MWTs for which translation is not compositional.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we proposed and evaluated a combined method for bilingual MWTextraction from comparable corpora which takes into account three main char-acteristics of MWT translation: fertility, non-compositionality, and variationFrench-English Terminology Extraction from Comparable Corpora 717clustering.
We first extracted monolingually MWTs and clustered synonymicvariants.
Secondly, we aligned them using a statistical method adapted fromsimilarity-vector approach for single words which exploits the context of theseMWTs.
This combined approach for MWTs gives satisfactory results comparedto those for single word.
It also allows us to obtain non compositional translationsof MWTs.
Our further works will concentrate on the interaction parameters, thecombining of the source-to-target and target-to-source alignment results, andthe handling of non-synonymic term variations.AcknowledgementsWe are particularly grateful to Samuel Dufour-Kowalski, who undertook thecomputer programs.
This work has also benefited from his comments.References1.
Cao, Y., Li, H.: Base Noun Phrase Translation Using Web Data and the EMAlgorithm.
In: Proceeding of the 19th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING?02), Tapei, Taiwan (2002) 127?1332.
Carl, M., Langlais, P.: An intelligent Terminology Database as a pre-processorfor Statistical Machine Translation.
In Chien, L.F., Daille, B., Kageura, L., Nak-agawa, H., eds.
: Proceeding of the COLING 2002 2nd International Workshop onComputational Terminology (COMPUTERM?02), Tapei, Taiwan (2002) 15?213.
Chiao, Y.C.
: Extraction lexicale bilingue a` partir de textes me?dicaux comparables :application a` la recherche d?information translangue.
PhD thesis, Universite?
Pierreet Marie Curie, Paris VI (2004)4.
Chiao, Y.C., Zweigenbaum, P.: Looking for candidate translational equivalents inspecialized, comparable corpora.
In: Proceedings of the 19th International Confer-ence on Computational Linguistics (COLING?02), Tapei, Taiwan (2002) 1208?12125.
Daille, B.:.
Conceptual Structuring through Term Variations.
In Bond, F.,Korhonen, A., MacCarthy, D., Villacicencio A., eds.
: Proceedings of the ACL2003 Workshop on Multiword Expressions: Analysis, Acquisition and Treatment(2003) 9?166.
Daille, B.: Terminology Mining.
In Pazienza, M., ed.
: Information Extraction inthe Web Era.
Springer (2003) 29?447.
Daille, B., Gaussier, E., Lange?, J.-M..: Towards Automatic Extraction of Monolin-gual and Bilingual Terminology.
Proceedings of the 15th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics (COLING?94) 1 (1994) 515?5218.
De?jean, H., Sadat, F., Gaussier, E.: An approach based on multilingual thesauriand model combination for bilingual lexicon extraction.
In: Proceedings of the19th International Conference on Computational Linguistics (COLING?02).
(2002)218?2249.
De?jean, H., Gaussier, E.: Une nouvelle approche a` l?extraction de lexiques bilinguesa` partir de corpus comparables.
Lexicometrica, Alignement lexical dans les corpusmultilingues (2002) 1?2210.
Fung, P.: A Statistical View on Bilingual Lexicon Extraction: From Parallel Cor-pora to Non-parallel Corpora.
In Farwell, D., Gerber, L., Hovy, E., eds.
: Pro-ceedings of the 3rd Conference of the Association for Machine Translation in theAmericas (AMTA?98), Springer (1998) 1?16718 B. Daille and E. Morin11.
Gaussier, E., Lange?, J.M.
: Mode`les statistiques pour l?extraction de lexiquesbilingues.
Traitement Automatique des Langues (TAL) 36 (1995) 133?15512.
Jacquemin, C.: Spotting and Discovering Terms through Natural Language Pro-cessing.
Cambridge: MIT Press (2001)13.
Melamed, I.D.
: Empirical Methods for Exploiting Parallel Texts.
MIT Press (2001)14.
Rapp, R.: Automatic Identification of Word Translations from Unrelated Englishand German Corpora.
In: Proceedings of the 37th Annual Meeting of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics (ACL?99).
(1999) 519?52615.
Salton, G., Lesk, M.E.
: Computer Evaluation of Indexing and Text Processing.Journal of the Association for Computational Machinery 15 (1968) 8?3616.
Tanimoto, T.T.
: An elementary mathematical theory of classification.
Technicalreport, IBM Research (1958)17.
Veronis, J., ed.
: Parallel Text Processing.
Kluwer Academic Publishers (2000)
