Automated Generalization of Phrasal Paraphrases from the Web*Weigang LiSchool of ComputerScience and Tech-nology, Box 321,Harbin Institute ofTechnology, Harbin,P.R.
China, 150001lee@ir.hit.edu.cnTing LiuSchool of ComputerScience and Tech-nology, Box 321,Harbin Institute ofTechnology, Harbin,P.R.
China, 150001tliu@ir.hit.edu.cnYu ZhangSchool of ComputerScience and Tech-nology, Box 321,Harbin Institute ofTechnology, Harbin,P.R.
China, 150001zhangyu@ir.hit.edu.cnSheng LiSchool of ComputerScience and Tech-nology, Box 321,Harbin Institute ofTechnology, Harbin,P.R.
China, 150001lis@ir.hit.edu.cnWei HeSchool of ComputerScience and Tech-nology, Box 321,Harbin Institute ofTechnology, Harbin,P.R.
China, 150001truman@ir.hit.edu.cnAbstractRather than creating and storing thou-sands of paraphrase examples, para-phrase templates have strongrepresentation capacity and can be usedto generate many paraphrase examples.This paper describes a new templaterepresentation and generalizationmethod.
Combing a semantic diction-ary, it uses multiple semantic codes torepresent a paraphrase template.
Usingan existing search engine to extend theword clusters and generalize the exam-ples.
We also design three metrics tomeasure our generalized templates.
Theexperimental results show that the rep-resentation method is reasonable andthe generalized templates have a higherprecision and coverage.1 IntroductionParaphrases are alternative ways to convey thesame information (Barzilay and McKeown,2001) and they have been applied in many fieldsof natural language processing.
There are manyprevious work on paraphrase examples extrac-tion or combining them with some applicationssuch as information retrieval and question an-swering (Agichtein et al, 2001; Florence et al,2003; Rinaldi et al, 2003; Tomuro, 2003; Linand Pantel, 2001;), information extraction(Shinyama et al, 2002; Shinyama and Sekine,2003), machine translation (Hiroshi et al, 2003;Zhang and Yamamoto, 2003), multi-document(Barzilay et al, 2003).There is also some other research aboutparaphrase.
(Wu and Zhou, 2003) just extractthe synonymy collocation, such as <turn on,OBJ, light> and <switch on, OBJ, light> usingboth monolingual corpora and bilingual corporato get an optimal result, but do not generalizethem.
(Glickman and Dagan, 2003) detects verbparaphrases instances within a single corpuswithout relying on any priori structure and in-formation.
Generation of paraphrase exampleswas also investigated (Barzilay and Lee, 2003;Quirk et al, 2004).Rather than creating and storing thousands ofparaphrases, paraphrase templates have strongrepresentation capacity and can be used to gen-erate many paraphrase examples.
As (Hirst,2003) said, for each aspect of paraphrase thereare two main challenges: representation ofknowledge and acquisition of knowledge.
Cor-responding to the problem of generalization ofparaphrase templates, there are also two prob-lems: the first is the representation of paraphrasetemplates and the second is acquisition of para-phrase templates.There are several methods about paraphrasetemplates representation.
The first method isusing the Part-of-Speech (Barzilay and McKe-own, 2001; Daum?
and Marcu, 2003; Zhang andYamamoto, 2003), the second uses name entityas the variable (Shinyama et al, 2002; Shinyamaand Sekine, 2003), the third method is similar tothe second method which is called the inferencerules extraction (Lin and Pantel, 2001).A paraphrases template is a pair of naturallanguage phrases with variables standing in forcertain grammatical constructs in (Daum?
and*: Supported by the Key Project of National Natural Sci-ence Foundation of China under Grant No.
6043502049Marcu, 2003).
He used Part-of-Speech to repre-sent templates.
But for some cases, the POS willbe very limited and for some other cases will beover generalized.
For example:????????
?(In my view/mind ----I feel)The above pair of phrases is a paraphrase, itcan be generalized using POS information:?
[pronoun]?
?(In [pronoun] view/mind)[pronoun]?
?( [pronoun] feel)But for this template many noun words willbe excluded.
From this point of view, the tem-plate representation capacity is limited.
But forother examples, the POS information will beover generally.
For example:????????
?(What's the price for the apples?)???????
?(How much is the apples per Jin?
)Here, we just generalize one variable ???
?.Then, the template becomes:[noun]??????
?(What's the price for the [noun]?)[noun]?????
?(How much is the [noun] per Jin?
)If there is a sentence ??????????
(What's the price for the notebook?
)?, its?
para-phrase will be ?????????
(How muchis the notebook per Jin?)?
according to this tem-plate.
Obviously, the result is unreasonable.
(Shinyama et al, 2002) tried to find para-phrases assuming that two sentences sharingmany Named Entities and a similar structure arelikely to be paraphrases of each other.
But justname entities are limited, too.
And (Lin andPantel, 2001) present an unsupervised algorithmfor discovering inference rules from text such as?X writes Y?
and ?X is the author of Y?.
Thisgeneralized method has good ability.
But it alsohas some limited aspect.
For example:[Jack] writes [his homework].According to the paraphrase template, thetarget sentence will be transformed into ?
[Jack]is the author of [his homework]?.
It?s obviouslythat the generated sentence is not standard.So how to represent paraphrase templatesand generalize the paraphrase examples is a veryinteresting task.
In this paper, we present a novelapproach to represent paraphrase template withsemantic code of words and using an existingsearch engine to get the paraphrase template.The remainder of this paper is organized asfollows.
In the next section, we give the over-view of our method.
In section 3, we define therepresentation method in details.
Section 4 pre-sents the generalization method.
Some experi-ments and discussions are shown in Section 5.Finally, we draw a conclusion of this methodand give some suggestions about future work.2 Overview of Generalization MethodThe origin input of our system is a seed phrasalparaphrase example.
And the output is the gen-eralized paraphrase templates from the givenexamples.
The overall architecture of our para-phrase generalization is represented on figure 1.A seed phrasalparaphrase examplesGetting the slot wordExtend the slot wordusing Search Engineon every exampleMapping two wordsets to their semanticcode setsIntersection operationon the two semanticcode setsGeneralizing atemplateFigure 1: Sketch Map of Paraphrase exampleGeneralizationWe also use the example (1) to illustrate therepresentation.
Here a semantic dictionary called?TongYiCiCiLin?
(Extension Version)1 is used.The pair of phrases is a phrasal paraphrase.
Atfirst, after preprocessing which includes wordsegment, POS tagging and word sense disam-biguation, we get the slot word in the paraphrase.In this example, the slot word is ??(I)?.
Thenwe search the web using the context of the slotword.
Every phrase in the phrasal pair derives aset of sentences which include the originalphrase context.
A dependency parser on thesesentences is used to extract the correspondingword with the slot word.
Two word sets can beobtained through the two sentence sets.
Then,we map word sets to their semantic code sets1 TongYiCiCiLin (Extended Version) can be downloadedfrom the website of HIT-IRLab (Http://ir.hit.edu.cn).
In thepast section, we abbreviate the TongYiCiCiLin (ExtendedVersion) to Cilin (EV)50according to Cilin(EV).
Then an intersectionoperation is conducted on the two sets.
We usethe intersection set to replace the slot word andgenerate the final paraphrase template.In order to verify the validation of the gener-alized paraphrase template, we also design anautomatic algorithm to confirm whether thetemplate is reasonable using the existing searchengine.3 Representation of TemplateIn the section of introduction, some representa-tion methods of paraphrase template have beenintroduced.
And we proposed a new method us-ing word semantic codes to represent the vari-able in a template.
Before we introduce therepresentation method, Firstly, we give somegeneral introduction about the semantic diction-ary of Cilin(EV).3.1 TongYiCiCiLin (Extended Version)Cilin (EV) is derived from original TongY-iCiCilin in which word senses are decomposedto 12 large categories, 94 middle categories,1,428 small categories.
Cilin (EV) removessome outdated words and updates many newwords.
More fine-grained categories are addedon the base of original classification system tosatisfy the more complex natural language ap-plications.
The encoding criterion is shown inthe table 1:Table 1 Encoding table of dictionaryEncodingbit 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Example D a 1 5 B 0 2 =Attribute Big Middle Small groups Atom groupsLayer 1 2 3 4 5The encoding bits are arranged from left toright.
The first three layers are same with Cilin.The fourth layer is represented by capital lettersand the fifth layer is two-bit decimal digit.
Thelast bit is some more detailed information aboutthe atom groups.3.2 An Example of a Paraphrase TemplateFor simplicity, we just select one slot word inevery paraphrase.
And we stipulated that onlycontent word can be slot word.
We also use theabove paraphrase example (1).????????
?(In my view/mind ----I feel)Here, we get the slot word ??(I)?.
Throughthe Word Sense Disambiguation processing, weget its semantic code ?Aa02A01=?
according tothe fifth layer in Cilin(EV).
If we just use thesemantic code of the slot word, we can get asimple paraphrase template as follows:?
[Aa02A01=] ?
?(In [Aa02A01=]  view/mind)[Aa02A01=] ?
?([Aa02A01=]  feel)But it is obviously that the template is verylimited.
Its?
representation ability is also limited.So how to extend the ability of a paraphrasetemplate is a challenging work.3.3 Extending the Template Abstract AbilityAccording to the feature of Cilin(EV) architec-ture, we can use the higher layer?s semanticcode instead of the slot word to generalize theparaphrase template naturally.
Of course it?s avery simple method to extend the template abil-ity, but it also brings more redundancy of aparaphrase template and it will be proven in thelater section.So we use multiple semantic codes of the dif-ferent layer instead of only one semantic code ofslot word in Cilin (EV).
The later experimentalresults prove this representation has a good per-formance with a good precision and coverage.4 Generalizing to TemplatesAs mentioned above, we can use multiple se-mantic codes to generalize paraphrase examples.So the problem of how to generalize paraphraseexamples is transformed into the problem ofhow to get the multiple semantic codes set.
Weproposed a new method which uses the existingsearch engine to reach the target.4.1 Getting the Candidate SentencesAfter we removed the slot word in the para-phrase examples, two phrasal contexts of theoriginal paraphrase phrases were obtained.
Eachphrase without slot word is used as a searchquery for an existing search engine and achiev-ing many sentences which include the queryword.
For this example, the two queries are ????(in?view)?
and ???(feel)?.
Each querygets one sentence set respectively.
Part of thetwo result sentence sets are shown in figure 2and figure 3:51Figure 2.
Sentence Set 1Figure 3.
Sentence Set 2From the above two sentence sets, we canfind that there is some noisy information in thesentences.
In order to extend the correspondentwords of the slot word, it is not enough that wejust use the position information or POS tagginginformation of the slot word.
Even if we extractthese words, many of them can?t be found in thedictionary because they are not simple words.Benefiting from the idea of (Lin and Pantel,2001), we use a dependency parser to determinethe correspondent extended words.4.2 Dependency ParserIn this paper, we use a dependency parser (Ma etal., 2004) to extract the candidate slot word.
Forexample, the dependency parsing result of thephrase of ??????
is shown in figure 4.Figure 4.
Dependency parsing resultThe arcs in the figure represent dependencyrelationships.
The direction of an arc is from thehead to the modifier in the relationship.
Labelsassociated with the arcs represent types of de-pendency relations.
Table 2 lists a subset of thedependency relations in the HIT-IRLab depend-ency parser2.Table 2.
A subset of the dependency relationsRelation DescriptionATT ????
(attribute)HED ??
(head)SBJ ??
(subject)ADV ????
(adverbial)VOB ????(verb-object)??????????????????????????????????????????????????
?,7 ????????????"?????????????????
?2 More information about the dependency parser can be gotfrom http://ir.hit.edu.cn/cuphelp.htm4.3 Extracting the extended wordsWe just use a very simple method to get the ex-tended words from the parsed sentences.
At first,we record the relations of the original parsedphrasal examples.
And then we use these rela-tions to matched similar part in the candidateparsed sentence except slot word.
And we omitthese unseen relations and content words whichdon?t appear in the original parsed phrasal ex-amples.
Then we can get the extended words.????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?B720 ???
?Figure 5.
Dependency parsing resultFigure 5 shows the dependency parsing resultof the phrase of ???????????
(In for-eign capital fund manager view).
We can easilyfind that the extended word of the slot word??
?
(I) is ???
?(manager).
Two extendedword sets can be extracted from two sentencesets.
Then we map each word to their semanticcode to get two semantic code sets.
Intersectionoperation is conducted on these two semanticcode sets to obtain their intersection set.
Finally,we use the semantic code set instead of the slotword to generate the paraphrase template.4.4 Some tricksBecause the precision of the current dependencyparser on Chinese is not very high, we just ex-tract a part of the candidate sentences to parse.There are three patterns to segment the longcandidate sentences according to position of slotword in paraphrase examples.
They are calledFRONT, MIDDLE and BACK.
Here we use anexample to illustrate it as shown in table 3:Table 3 Examples of sentence segmentationPattern Origin Phrase Segment examplesFRONT (SW)??
????????????
?MIDDLE ?(SW)??
???????????????????
?The bold section in the sentence will be ex-tracted to parse.
Pattern type can be decided by52the position relation between slot word and con-text words.
And these patterns can reduce therelative error rate of the dependency parser.
Thatis to say, if the original phrase is parsed wrongly,the extracted segments may be parsed wronglywith the similar error.
But according to ourmethod, this kind of parser error has little influ-ence on the final extracting result.5 Experiments and Discussions5.1 SettingWe extract about 510 valid paraphrase examplesfrom a Chinese paraphrase corpus (Li et al,2004).
For simplicity, we just select thosephrasal paraphrase examples which own sameword.
And we stipulate only content word canbe as slot word.
We just use four seed phrasalparaphrases as the original paraphrases in thispaper.
And the generalized paraphrase templatesrepresented by semantic codes of the fifth layerin Cinlin (EV) are also shown in the Table 4:Table 4: Examples of the generalized templateOriginPhrasesGeneralized Paraphrasetemplates???
[Aa01A01=,Aa01A05=,Aa01C03=,Aa02A01=,  ?]?
?1 ?
?
???[Aa01A01=,Aa01A05=,Aa01C03=,Aa02A01=,...
]?????
?
[Ac03A01=,Ah04A01=,Ah05A01=,Am03D01@,?
]?2 ???
[Ac03A01=,Ah04A01=,Ah05A01=,Am03D01@,?]???
?
???[Fb01A01=,Gb07B01=,Hb06A01=,He15B01=,?
]?
?3 ?
?
???[Fb01A01=,Gb07B01=,Hb06A01=,He15B01=,?
]???
?
??
?
???[Aa03A01=,Ac03A01=,Ba05A10#,Bb02A01=,?]??????4?
?
????[Aa03A01=,Ac03A01=,Ba05A10#,Bb02A01=,?]????
?5.2 Evaluation on TemplatesThe goal of the evaluations is to confirm howreasonable this kind of representation method ofparaphrase templates is and how well the tem-plate is.
We evaluated the generalized para-phrase template in three ways.
They are listed inthe following three categories: 1) Reasonability;2) Precision; 3) Coverage.1) ReasonabilityThe reasonability of a paraphrase template aimsto measure the reasonable extent of the presenta-tion method with multiple semantic codes.
Forexample, if we use POS to generalize a para-phrase template, its reasonability is very lower;that is to say, POS is not suitable to representparaphrase template in some extent.We use an existing search engine to calcu-late the reasonability of every paraphrase tem-plate.
Firstly, we instantiate all paraphraseexamples from a template.
Then all these exam-ples are as the queries of the search engine.
Iftwo phrases in one paraphrase can be matchedcompletely from the search engine, it also meansthat one or more examples are found on the Webvia search engine, we then consider this para-phrase is reasonable.
Using this method we canget the approximate evaluation of all the exam-ples.
We define two metrics:Strict_Reasonability = S / NLoose_Reasonability = (L + S) / NWhere N is the total number of the instanti-ated examples; S is the number of the para-phrase examples which two phrases in it can bematched all; L is the number of paraphrase ex-amples only one phrase in a paraphrase can bematched.2) PrecisionEvery template is correspondent to the examplesnumber with the semantic code of different layerin Cilin (EV) as shown in table 5.Table 5 Templates and their correspond exam-ples numberInstantiated examplesnumberNumber ofParaphrasetemplates Cilin3 Cilin4 Cilin51 2696 1815 4782 13032 6354 30113 1057 587 1774 3004 2229 429From the above table, we can find that everytemplate can instantiate many examples.
Ifmanually judging all of these examples willspend plenty of time.
So we just sample part ofall instantiate examples, 200 paraphrase exam-ples for each template in this paper.
For each53phrase in a sample paraphrase example, it is assearch query to get the first two matched sen-tences.
Evaluators would be asked whether it issemantically okay to replace the query in thesentence by the correspondent phrase in a para-phrase.
They were given only two options: Yesor No.
If search query have no matched results,we consider that this phrase cannot be replacewith its correspondent paraphrase.
According tothe above regulations, we know that every para-phrase examples correspondent to 4 sentences.
Ifwe sample n examples from a template, the pre-cision of a paraphrase template can be calculatedby:Precision = R / (4 * n)Where, R is the number of sentences whichis considered to be correct by the evaluator.3) CoverageEvaluating directly the coverage of a paraphrasetemplate is difficult because humans can?t enu-merate all the words to be suitable to the tem-plate.
We use an approximate method to get thecoverage of a template.
At first we use anothersearch engine to get candidate sentences withsimilar method for generalization of a para-phrase template.
From these retrieved sentenceswe can get many different words with theknown generalized words because more than85% of search results from different search en-gine are different.
Evaluators extract every sen-tence which can be replaced with thecorrespondent phrase in a paraphrase and thenew sentences retain the origin meaning.
Weknow each sentence is correspondent to a word.Then we define two metrics:Surface_Coverage = M / NSSemantic_Coverage =Map(K) / (Map(NS-M) + Map(K))Where, NS is the number of all manuallytagged right words, M is the number of wordswhich can be instantiated from a paraphrasetemplate, K is the number of all the words thatgeneralized the template at the front.
Map(X) isthe total word number of the word clusterswhich derived from X word in the semantic dic-tionary of Cilin(EV).5.3 ResultIn order to exhibit the merit of our method, weconduct four groups of experiment.
They arePOS-Tag, Cilin3, Cilin4 and Ciln5, respectively.Especially, we just randomly select 400 wordsto satisfy the POS information.Table 6: Experiment ResultsReasonability(%)Coverage(%)St_R Lo_R Su_C Se_CPreci-sion(%)POS 10.50 17.00 90.00 ---- 11.75Cilin3 45.57 84.50 27.55 38.71 45.75Cilin4 46.89 84.54 23.87 44.48 64.13Cilin5 46.24 83.12 20.39 39.47 69.88Every value in table 6 is a average value offour values correspondent to four templates.From the table we can find that the reasonabilityof the Cilin-based representation templatechanges little, and that of POS-based representa-tion is very lower.
We find that the longer origi-nal phrases are, the lower the coverage of thegeneralized template is.
Although the averagecoverage of generalized template is relativelylow, we can draw a conclusion that using multi-ple semantic codes to generalize phrasal para-phrase examples is reasonable.The column of the coverage shows that thecoverage rates of Cilin-based templates are allnot more than 50%.
And the POS-based tem-plate has a very high coverage rate.
And weknow that the extended information is notenough only depending on one search engine.We will combine several different search en-gines with together to solve this problem in thefuture work.1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.00102030405060708090100strict_Reasonability  loose_Reasonabilitysurface_Coverage  semantic_CoveragePrecisionValuesof PercentDifferent Template Representation MethodFigure 6.
Experimental ResultsThe numbers from one to four on the X-axisare correspondent to POS, Cilin3, Cilin4 andCilin5 in figure 6.
We can see the featuresclearly of different representation methods oftemplate from the figure 6.
We can find that54Cilin5-based template has the highest precision,but its coverage is lower.
And Cilin3-basedtemplate has opposite feature.
This is becausethat one semantic code of Cilin3 includes morewords than that of Cilin5.
At the same time,more words bring more redundant information.And Cilin4-based template has a good tradeoffbetween coverage and precision.
So we con-clude that the semantic code of fourth layer inCilin (EV) is more suitable to represent para-phrase template.Some additional information can be extractedfrom the generalized template.
Such as, the col-location information between the slot word andthe context words can be extract.
For example,in the fourth template, we can get the informa-tion about which words can be collocated with??
(Jin)?.Although this kind of representation of para-phrase template has a good performance, it isweak for those words or structures that don?texist in dictionary.
Also, this method is not suit-able to the named entities representation.6 ConclusionIn this paper, a novel method for automatedgeneralization of paraphrase examples is pro-posed.
This method is not dependent on the tra-ditional limited texts instead it is based on therichness of the Web.
It uses the multiple seman-tic codes to generalize a paraphrase examplecombing a semantic dictionary (Cilin (EV)).
Theexperimental results proved that this representa-tion method is reasonable and the generalizedtemplates have a good precision and coverage.But this is just the beginning of the para-phrase examples generalization.
And we sim-plify the problem in some aspects, such as welimited the number of the slot word in a para-phrase example, and we stipulate only the sameword can be slot word.
Also, we find that ourtemplates are weak for those words or structuresthat don?t exist in dictionary.
Some methods ininformation extraction about named entitiesgeneralization can be used for reference in thefuture.
Moreover, how to combine the semanticcode with other representation forms together isalso an interesting work.References[1] Chris Quirk, Chris Brockett, and William Dolan.Monolingual Machine Translation for Para-phrase Generation.
editors, Dekang Lin andDekai Wu, In Proceedings of EMNLP 2004,Barcelona, pages 142-149[2] Dekang Lin and Patrick Pantel.
2001.
Discoveryof Inference Rules for Question Answering.Natural Language Engineering 7(4):343-360[3] Dekang Lin and Patrick Pantel.
Discovery ofinference rules for question answering.
NaturalLanguage Engineering, 1, 2001.
[4] E. Agichtein, S. Lawrence, and L. Gravano.Learning search engine specific query transfor-mations for question answering.
In Proceedingsof the 10th International World-Wide Web Con-ference (WWW10), 2001[5] Fabio Rinaldi, James Dowdall, Kaarel Kalju-rand, Michael Hess, Diego Molla.
2003.
Ex-ploiting Paraphrases in a Question AnsweringSystem.
The Second International Workshop onParaphrasing: Paraphrase Acquisition and Ap-plications[6] Florence Duclaye France.
Learning paraphrasesto improve a question-answering system.
InEACL Natural Language Processing for Ques-tion Answering, 2003[7] Graeme Hirst.
Paraphrasing Paraphrased.
InProceedings of the Second International Work-shop on Paraphrasing, 2003[8] Hal Daum?
III and Daniel Marcu.
Acquiringparaphrase templates from document/abstractpairs.
In NL Seminar in ISI, 2003[9] Hua Wu, Ming Zhou.
Optimizing SynonymExtraction Using Monolingual and BilingualResources.
In Proceedings of the Second Inter-national Workshop on Paraphrasing, 2003[10] Hua Wu, Ming Zhou.
Synonymous CollocationExtraction Using Translation Information.
InProceedings of the 41st Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,2003[11] Jinshan Ma, Yu Zhang, Ting Liu, and Sheng Li.A Statistical Dependency Parser of Chinese un-der Small Training Data.
Workshop: Beyondshallow analyses - Formalisms and statisticalmodeling for deep analyses, IJCNLP-04, 4 2004.
[12] Noriko Tomuro.
2003.
Interrogative Reformula-tion Patterns and Acquisition of Question Para-phrases.
The Second International Workshop onParaphrasing: Paraphrase Acquisition and Ap-plications[13] Oren Glickman and Ido Dagan.
Identifyinglexical paraphrases from a single corpus: A casestudy for verbs.
In Proceedings of Recent Ad-vantages in Natural Language Processing, Sep-tember 200355[14] Regina Barzilay and Kathleen McKeown.
Ex-tracting paraphrases from a parallel corpus.
InProceedings of the ACL/EACL, Toulouse, 2001[15] Regina Barzilay and Lillian Lee.
Learning toParaphrase: An Unsupervised Approach UsingMultiple-Sequence Alignment.
In Proceedingsof HLT-NAACL 2003, pages 16-23[16] Regina Barzilay, Noemie Elhadad, Kathleen R.McKeown.
2003.
Inferring Strategies for Sen-tence Ordering in Multidocument News Sum-marization.
The Second International Workshopon Paraphrasing: Paraphrase Acquisition andApplications[17] Weigang Li, Ting Liu, Sheng Li.
CombiningSentence Length with Location Information toAlign Monolingual Parallel Texts.
AIRS, 2004,pages 71-77[18] Yusuke Shinyama and Satoshi Sekine.
Para-phrase acquisition for information extraction.editors, Kentaro Inui and Ulf Hermjakob, InProceedings of the Second International Work-shop on Paraphrasing, 2003, pages 65-71[19] Yusuke Shinyama, Satoshi Sekine, KiyoshiSudo, and Ralph Grishman.
Automatic para-phrase acquisition from news articles, In Pro-ceedings of Human Language TechnologyConference (HLT2002), San Diego, USA, Mar.15, 2002[20] Zhang Yujie, Kazuhide Yamamoto.
AutomaticParaphrasing of Chinese Utterances.
Journal ofChinese Information Processing.
Vol.
117 No.16: 31-38(Chinese)56
