Building a Japanese-Chinese Dictionary UsingKanji/Hanzi ConversionChooi-Ling Goh, Masayuki Asahara, and Yuji MatsumotoGraduate School of Information Science, Nara Institute of Science and Technology,8916-5 Takayama, Ikoma, Nara 630-0192, Japan{ling-g, masayu-a, matsu}@is.naist.jpAbstract.
A new bilingual dictionary can be built using two existingbilingual dictionaries, such as Japanese-English and English-Chinese tobuild Japanese-Chinese dictionary.
However, Japanese and Chinese arenearer languages than English, there should be a more direct way ofdoing this.
Since a lot of Japanese words are composed of kanji, whichare similar to hanzi in Chinese, we attempt to build a dictionary for kanjiwords by simple conversion from kanji to hanzi.
Our survey shows thataround 2/3 of the nouns and verbal nouns in Japanese are kanji words,and more than 1/3 of them can be translated into Chinese directly.
Theaccuracy of conversion is 97%.
Besides, we obtain translation candidatesfor 24% of the Japanese words using English as a pivot language with77% accuracy.
By adding the kanji/hanzi conversion method, we increasethe candidates by 9%, to 33%, with better quality candidates.1 IntroductionR.
Dale et al (Eds.
): IJCNLP 2005, LNAI 3651, pp.
670?681, 2005.c?
Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2005Bilingual dictionaries have unlimited usage.
In order for one to learn a new lan-guage, a bilingual dictionary can never be absent.
In natural language process-ing community, bilingual dictionaries are useful in many areas, such as machinetranslation and cross language information retrieval.In this research, we attempt to build a Japanese-Chinese dictionary usingpublic available resources.
There are already some existing Japanese-Chinesedictionaries, such as Shogakukan?s Ri-Zhong Cidian [1], but they are not publiclyavailable in electronic form.
Our purpose is to build an electronic dictionary frompublic resources and make it public available.The first dictionary that we use is IPADIC [2], a Japanese dictionary used byChaSen [3], a Japanese morphological analyzer.
We extract only nouns, verbalnouns and verbs from this dictionary, and try to search for their translationequivalents in Chinese.One can build a new bilingual dictionary for a new pair of languages using twobilingual lexicons [4?8].
Since it is always easier to get bilingual dictionaries thatinvolve English as one of the languages, using English as a pivot language is pos-sible.
In this case, we first look for the English translations of one language, andthen try to find the possible candidates in the other language through English.Then we rank the candidates according to the similarities between the two wordsBuilding a Japanese-Chinese Dictionary Using Kanji/Hanzi Conversion 671using some linguistic knowledge and statistical information.
In our research, wemake use of two public resources, EDICT [9] - a Japanaese-English dictionaryand CEDICT [10] - a Chinese-English dictionary, to create the new languagepair Japanese-Chinese dictionary using English as a pivot language.
We obtain77% accuracy.
However, this method extracts only translations for about 24% ofthe Japanese words in IPADIC because the EDICT and CEDICT dictionariesare smaller compared with IPADIC.
Therefore, we also look into the possibilityto get the translation words using kanji/hanzi conversion.
In Japanese, there arethree types of characters, namely hiragana, katakana and kanji.
Kanji charactersare similar to Chinese ideographs.
In Chinese, all characters are written in hanzi.Since most of the kanji characters are originally from China, the usage shouldremain unchangeable in certain contexts.
The kanji/hanzi conversion methodworks only on Japanese words that consist only kanji characters.
We obtain ahigh accuracy of 97% using this conversion.
By combining the two methods, weincrease the number of translation candidates by 9%, from 24% to 33%.2 Previous WorkTanaka and Umemura [4] used English as an intermediate language to linkJapanese and French.
They are the first who proposed the inverse consultation.The concept behind is that a translation sometimes may have wider or narrowermeaning than the source word.
They first look up the English translations of agiven Japanese word, then the French translations of these English translations.This step gives a set of French candidates equivalent to the Japanese word.
Foreach French candidate, its translations in English is collected.
The similaritybetween the Japanese word and the French word is measured by the number ofmatches in their English translation.
The more matches show the better candi-date.
This is referred to as ?one time inverse consultation?.
The extension canbe furthered by looking up all the Japanese translations of all the English trans-lation of a given French word and seeing how many times the Japanese wordappears; this is referred to as ?two times inverse consultation?.Bond at al.
[6] applied the ?one time inverse consultation?
in constructinga Japanese-Malay dictionary using a Japanese-English dictionary and a Malay-English dictionary.
They also applied the semantic matching using part of speechand second-language matching.
Matching only compatible parts of speech couldcut down a lot of false matches.
The second-language matching score usedChinese as a second intermediate language.
If a word pair could be matchedthrough two different languages, it is considered a very good match.
Their re-search showed that about 80% of the translations are good if only highest rankpairs are considered, and 77% for all pairs.Shirai and Yamamoto [7] used English as an intermediate language to linkKorean and Japanese.
They tried on 1,000 Korean words and were able to obtainthe translations for 365 of them.
They achieved an accuracy of 72% when thedegree of similarity calculated by one time inverse consultation is higher than apredefined threshold.672 C.-L. Goh, M. Asahara, and Y. MatsumotoZhang et al [8] used the same approach, that is using English as a pivotlanguage, for constructing Japanese-Chinese pairs.
They used the one time in-verse consultation method and also the part of speech information for ranking.Since there is similarity between Japanese kanji and Chinese hanzi, they havefurther improved on the method by using the kanji information [11].
First theysearched for the Chinese translations of single character words in Japanese intousing one time inverse consultation.
If the Unicode of the two characters arethe same, then the ranking is higher.
After getting this list of character pairs,the similarity between the Japanese word and the Chinese word is calculatedusing the edit distance algorithm [12].
Finally, the score obtained from the kanjiinformation is added to the final score function.
Their ranking method was im-proved and the precision increased from 66.67% to 81.43%.
Since only about 50%of their Japanese words can be translated into Chinese, they also searched forother approaches to translate the remaining words [13] using web informationand machines translation method.Our work is quite similar to Zhang et al [11] in the way they constructedthe kanji/hanzi conversion table.
The difference is that instead of calculating thesimilarity between kanji and hanzi using Unicode and one time inverse consulta-tion, we make a direct conversion from kanji to hanzi based on the ideographs.Our method sounds more intuitive and direct because kanji and hanzi are ofthe same origin.
Later on, they made use of this conversion table to calcutatethe similarity between a Japanese word and a Chinese word from the output ofusing English as the pivot language.
Their method can make the similar Chinesewords to have higher ranking but cannot generate new translation candidates.On the other hand, our methods works for both.3 The Proposed MethodsWe propose to combine two methods to find the translations of Japanese entriesin IPADIC version 2.7.0 [2].
IPADIC is a monolingual dictionary and consists of239,631 entries.
We only extract nouns, verbal nouns and verbs (a total of 85,553entries) in our survey.
First, we use English as the pivot languege.
Second, wemake direct conversion from kanji to hanzi for kanji word translation.
We nowdescribe in detail the both methods.3.1 Using Third Language: EnglishFirst, we use English as the pivot language to find the translations from Japaneseto English, and then from English to Chinese.
Since IPADIC is a monolingual dic-tionary, we use EDICT as the Japanese-English dictionary.
The EDICT version(V05-001) consists of 110,424 entries.
There exist some words that are polyse-mous with multiple entries.
After combining the multiple entry words, we have106,925 unique entries in the dictionary.
For English to Chinese, we use the CE-DICT dictionary.
It consists of 24,665 entries.
A word can be polysemous in bothBuilding a Japanese-Chinese Dictionary Using Kanji/Hanzi Conversion 673dictionary, meaning that for each word there is only one entry but with multi-ple translations.
All the English translations of different senses are in the samerecord.
We assume that a bilingual dictionary should be bi-directional, thereforewe reverse the CEDICT dictionary to obtain an English-Chinese dictionary.The ranking method is the one time inverse consultation [4, 6?8].
Since a wordcan be polysemous in both dictionaries, if a source word shares more Englishtranslations with the target translation word, then they can be considered nearerin meaning.
The score is calculated as in equation (1): Let SE(J,Ci) denotesthe similarity between the Japanese word J and the Chinese translation wordcandidate Ci, where E(J) and E(Ci) are the sets of English translations for Jand Ci, respectively:SE(J,Ci) =2?
(|E(J) ?
E(Ci)|)|E(J)|+ |E(Ci)|(1)Currently we do not apply the part of speech information in the scoring be-cause this method requires linguistic experts to decide on the similarity betweentwo part of speech tags for different languages1.
However, this will become partof our future work.Table 1 shows the results of using English as the pivot language and onetime inverse consultation as the scoring function.
Using the EDICT and CE-DICT only, 32,380 Japanese words obtain their Chinese translation candidates.In total, we obtain 149,841 pairs of translation.
We get maximum 90 candidatesfor a Japanese word, and 4.6 candidates per word by average.
Then we checkthe Japanese words in IPADIC to get their part of speech tags.
We only inves-tigate on three categories of part of speech tags from the IPADIC, which arenouns, verbal nouns and verbs.
We randomly selected 200 Japanese words fromeach category for evaluation.
The results are judged using 4 categories: Correctmeans that the first rank word is correct (if there are multiple words in thefirst rank, it is considered correct if any one of the words is correct), Not-firstmeans that the correct word exists but not at the first rank, Acceptable meansthat the first rank word is acceptable, and Wrong means that all candidatesare wrong.
All the categories are exclusive of each other.POS Total Translated Correct Not-first Acceptable WrongNouns 58,793 14,275 (24.3%) 152 4 20 24Verbal nouns 12,041 3,770 (31.3%) 90 12 37 61Verbs 14,719 2,509 (17.0%) 101 18 27 54Table 1.
Ranking resultsThere are about 24.3% of nouns, 31.3% of verbal nouns and 17.0% of verbs inIPADIC that give us some translation candidates in Chinese.
For the evaluation1 There are 120 part of speech tags (13 categories) in IPADIC, and 45 in PekingUniversity dictionary.
Both define some quite specialized part of speech tags whichonly exist within the dictionary itself.674 C.-L. Goh, M. Asahara, and Y. Matsumotousing 200 randomly selected words, we obtain 88%, 69.5% and 73% accuracy,respectively.
The accuracy is 76%, 45% and 50.5%, respectively, if we consideredonly the first rank.
The accuracy is a bit lower compared with previous work aswe did not apply other linguistic resources such as parts of speech for scoring.Although improving scoring function can make the rank of the correct wordshigher, it cannot further increase the number of candidates.
Since both EDICTand CEDICT are prepared by different people, the way they translate the wordsalso varies.
Furthermore, there is no standization on the format.
For example, torepresent a verb in English, sometimes it is written in base form (e.g.
?discuss?
),and sometimes in infinitive form (e.g.
?to discuss?).
In Chinese, and sometimes inJapanese too, a word shown in the dictionary can be a noun and a verb withoutinflection.
The part of speech category can only be decided based on the usage incontexts.
Therefore the same word may be translated into a noun in English too(e.g.
?discussion?).
It happened too that we cannot find the matches just becauseof singular form or plural form (e.g.
?discussions?)
of the English translation.With these non-standardization of the English translation, we cannot match theexact words unless we do a morphological analysis in English.
Therefore, wealso look for other ways to increase to number of candidates.
Since Japaneseand Chinese share some common characters (kanji in Japanese and hanzi inChinese), we are looking into the possibility of direct conversion to create thetranslations.
We discuss this method in the following section.3.2 Direct Conversion of Kanji/HanziUsing English as the pivot language is a good starting point to construct a newlanguage pair.
However, there remain a lot of words for which the translationscannot be obtained.
In Chinese, all the characters are hanzi, but in Japanese,there are hiragana, katakana and kanji.
The kanji characters are originated fromancient China.
This group of characters, used in China, Japan and Korea, arereferred to as Han characters.
The Han characters capture some semantic infor-mation which should be common in those languages.
One can create a new wordby combining the existing characters but it is hardly that one can create a newcharacter.
Therefore, these characters are stable in their meaning.
Due to thecommon sharing on these Han characters, there might be a more straightforwardway to translate a word in Japanese into Chinese if all the characters in the wordare made up from kanji only.
We refer to this kind of words as kanji words.A Chinese word can be a noun or a verb without changes of morphologicalforms.
There is no inflection to differenciate them.
EDICT and CEDICT makeno difference on the parts of speech and therefore the translations in English canbe in any form.
For example, the following Japanese words and Chinese wordsexist for the translations of ?discussion/discussions/to discuss/discuss?.Japanese: ?
?, {, ?
{, ?, ?
?, 	?, ?
{, ?, ?
{, {, ?
?, O?,?
{, ?, ?
{, H, 0, , , , 1d, 3dChinese: &, ?
?, X, ?, ?X, ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ?, ?X, ?X, F, FXBuilding a Japanese-Chinese Dictionary Using Kanji/Hanzi Conversion 675If we were to match each Japanese word to each of the Chinese words (in fact,we can say that some of them are acceptable translations), then we will get aredundency of 286 (22?13) pairs.
Although these words have similar translation,but in fact they have slight differences in meaning.
For example, ????
meansthe conference amongst the ministers, ????
means negotiations.
However, ?dis-cussion?
is one of the translations in English as provided by EDICT.
Since theJapanese kanji characters are originated from China, translating Japanese kanjiwords directly to Chinese can be more accurate than going through a third lan-guage like English.
If we look from the Japanese side, 12 out of 22 words (?
?,{, ?
{, ?, ?
?, ?, ?
?, O?, ?, ?
{, H, ) could get their exacttranslations by just simple conversion of kanji/hanzi (??,FX,NF,?X,?
?, ?X, b?, ,?, ?X, ?F, &X, X), in which some of them cannot getthe translations using English.
On the other hand, there also exist some wordsthat are not translated into the semantic meaning ?discuss?
in Japanese but inChinese, such as ??X?
which should be the same as ???
in Japanese2.
Forthe single character words in Chinese (&, ?, ?, F), they are seldom used inJapanese but they do exist with the same meaning (H, ?, ?, {).There exist equivalent characters between Japanese kanji and Chinese hanzi.Both type of characters (Han characters in general) capture significant seman-tic information.
Although the pronunciation varies across languages, the visualform of the characters retains certain level of similarity.
Furthermore, Chinesecharacters can be divided into the characters used by mainland China (referredto as Simplified Chinese) and Taiwan (including Hong Kong and Macao, referredto as Traditional Chinese).
Although the ideographs may be different, they areoriginally the same characters.
Most of the Japanese characters are similar toTraditional characters.English love garden rice fly kill talk fill up post excellent sunJapanese ?
?
?
?
 Q@,bTraditional Chinese ?
h 9 ?
l ?
?8&Simplified Chinese ?
?
, < ?
?
V??
?Table 2.
Successful Traditional-Simplified examplesOur original Japanese characters are coded in EUC and Chinese charactersare coded in GB-2312 codes.
To convert a kanji to a hanzi is not a trivial task.Of course most of the characters share the same ideographs.
In this case, we canuse the Unicode for the conversion as these characters share the same Unicode.However, there exist also quite a number of characters in Japanese that arewritten in Traditional Chinese ideographs.
We have to convert these charactersfrom Traditional Chinese to Simplified Chinese (see Table 2).
Finally, there are2 The meaning of ????
(a business talk) in Japanese is different from the meaningof ?????
(to discuss verbally) in Chinese.676 C.-L. Goh, M. Asahara, and Y. MatsumotoEnglish gas hair deliver check home pass by burn bad money wholeJapanese [ b ` r ?
C ?
?
?Traditional Chinese ?
?
s l  B t ?
?
?Simplified Chinese ?
  5 * ?
?
  Table 3.
Unsuccessful Traditional-Simplified examplesEnglish sardine hackberry maple kite inclusiveJapanese ?
?
y -English crossroad field/patch rice bowl carpentry chimeraJapanese[ H  'Table 4.
Japanese-GBK examplesalso some characters in Japanese having similar ideographs, but they are neitherTraditional Chinese nor Simplified Chinese (see Table 3).
We manually convertthese characters by hand.
The following shows the steps to convert the charactersfrom Japanese to Chinese.1.
Convert from EUC to Unicode using iconv.2.
Convert from Unicode to Unicode-simplified using a Chinese encoding con-verter3.
This step converts possible Traditional characters to Simplified char-acters.3.
Convert from Unicode-simplified to GB-2312.4.
Those failed to be converted are edited manually by hand.5.
Those characters that do not exist in GB-2312 are converted into GBK usingthe Chinese encoding converter.From IPADIC, we extract 36,069 and 8,016 kanji words from noun and verbalnoun categories4, respectively.
From these words, we get 4,454 distinct kanji char-acters.
Out of these characters, only 2,547 characters can be directly convertedusing Unicode without changes of ideographs.
1,281 characters are convertedfrom Traditional Chinese to Simplified Chinese using the Chinese encoding con-verter.
Finally 626 characters are manually checked and 339 characters can beconverted to Simplified Chinese.
287 remain in Japanese ideographs but are con-verted into GBK codes 5.
Most of these words are the names of plants, fish, andthings invented by Japanese (see Table 4).
While these GBK coded words maynot be used in Chinese, we just leave them in the conversion table for the sakeof completeness.3 http://www.madarintools.com/zhcode.html4 These two categories consist of most of the kanji words in Japanese.
However, verbsare normally hiragana only or a mixture of kanji plus hiragana.
Therefore, we omitverbs in this survey.5 GBK codes consist of all simplified and traditional characters, including their vari-ants.
Therefore, Japanese characters can also be coded in GBK.
However, they arerarely used in Chinese.Building a Japanese-Chinese Dictionary Using Kanji/Hanzi Conversion 677About 61% of nouns and 67% of verbal nouns in Japanese are kanji wordsas shown in Table 5.
Using the conversion table described above, we convert thekanji words into Chinese words.
Then, we consult these words using a Chinesedictionary provided by Peking University [14].
There are about 80,000 entries inthis dictionary.
About 33% of the nouns and 44% of the verbal nouns are validwords in Chinese.
We randomly select 200 words for evaluation.
We evaluate theresults by 3 categories: Correct means that the translation is good, Part-ofmeans that either the Japanese word or the Chinese word has a wider meaning,and Wrong means that the meanings are not the same though they have thesame characters.
The accuracies obtained are 97% for nouns and 97.5% for verbalnouns.
The pairs that have part-of meaning and different meaning are listed inTable 6 and Table 7 for references.POS Total Kanji words Translated Correct Part-of WrongNouns 58,793 36,069 (61%) 11,743 (33%) 189 5 6Verbal nouns 12,041 8,016 (67%) 3,519 (44%) 190 5 5Table 5.
Kanji/Hanzi conversion resultsJapanese Chinese??
(damage; casualty; victim) ?3 (be murdered; victimization)?
(samurai; warrior; servant) 9 (servant)??
(a corner; competent) n (a corner; a unit used for money;)d (charcoal iron; noshi - greeting paper) ??
(charcoal iron)??
(character formation type) ??
(character formation type; knowing;understanding)?
(work one?s way) C?
(hardship study)??
(set in place - Buddha statue orcorpse)??
(set in place - for anything){?
(artificiality; deliberateness; aggres-sive action)*?
(action; acomplishment; regard as)Yu (fall; drop) a (fall; drop; whereabouts; find a placefor; reprove)?a (attend on the Emperor in his travels;accompany in the imperial trains)?a (offer sacrifice to; people gave com-mend performances in an imperial palace)Table 6.
Part-of translation examplesThe advantage of this method is that we can get exact translation for thoseborrowed words from Chinese, especially idioms.
We all know that it is alwaysdifficult to translate idiomatic phrases from one language to another due to thedifferent cultural background.
If we were to use English as the pivot languageto translate from Japanese to Chinese, it is difficult to have two different bilin-678 C.-L. Goh, M. Asahara, and Y. MatsumotoJapanese Chinese??
(true; really) ?h (ought; should)??
(nonmember) ?i (ministry councillor; landlord)?}
(deportation; banishment; exile) 5 (flee hither and thither)s(light indigo) ??
(variety; designs and colors)g (vegetables)h (potherb)?
(picture scroll) ?l (size of a picture)?o (divide into halves) R?
(reduce by half)??
(self-surrender) ?
(private prosecution)D?
(selfish; calculating) K?
(plan; intend; calculate)??
(search for cube root)?
(draw; issue; open)??
(take a person into custody) ?Z (seduce; tempt)Table 7.
Wrong translation examplesgual dictionaries from two different publishers that translate them in the samewordings.
Since a lot of the idioms in Japanese are originally from China, theconversion of kanji/hanzi will make the translation process faster and more ac-curate.
Some examples are given below.????
(same bed different dream - cohabiting but living in different worlds)O???
(better to be the beak of a rooster than the rump of a bull - better tobe the leader of a small group than a subordinate in a large organization)#wk?
(appearing in unexpected places and at unexpected moments)The difficulty of this method is the translation of single character words.Single character words normally have wider meaning (multiple senses) and theusage is usually based on the context.
It is fair enough if we translate the singlecharacter words using the conversion table.
However, these characters shouldhave more translations of other multi-character words.
There are 2,049 singlecharacter nouns in Japanese and 1,873 of them exist in Chinese after the con-version.
For verbal nouns, there are 128 Japanese words and 127 words exist inChinese (only ?
(gossip, rumor) does not exist in Chinese).3.3 IntergrationWe combine both using English as the pivot language and kanji/hanzi conversionmethod to get the final list of translation candidates.
Table 8 shows the resultsin details.
We obtain 20,630 for nouns and 5,356 for verbal nouns.
In total, weobtain 28,495 words, in which 7,941 words are new translations.
Furthermore,we add in high quality translation candidates into the new bilingual dictionary.2,428 of the candidates obtained using kanji/hanzi conversion method alreadyexist in the translation candidates using English as the pivot language.
This canhelp to double check on the list of translation candidates and make them rankhigher.
4,893 candidates are served as extra and better quality candidates ontop of the translation candidates obtained using English as the pivot language.Building a Japanese-Chinese Dictionary Using Kanji/Hanzi Conversion 679POS Kanji/ Acc.
Est.
Using Acc.
Est.
Total In Extra Newhanzi EnglishNouns 11,743 97% 11,391 14,275 88% 12, 562 20,630 2,008 3,380 6,355Verbal nouns 3,519 97.5% 3,431 3,770 69.5% 2,620 5,356 420 1,513 1,586Verbs - - - 2,509 73% 1,832 2,509 - - -Total 15,262 14,822 20,554 17,014 28,495 2,428 4,893 7,941Table 8.
Integration resultsAs an estimation, we will get about 17,014 Japanese words with correcttranslations in Chinese using English as the pivot language.
By using kanji/hanziconversion method, we could get about 14,822 words with correct translation.4 Discussion and Future WorkIn our survey, only 33% of nouns and 44% of verbal nouns created by kanji/hanziconversion method exist in the Peking University dictionary.
However, this maybe due to the incompleteness of the Chinese dictionary that we used.
We alsofound some words after the conversion which are acceptable in Chinese thoughthey do not exist in the dictionary.
Some of the examples are as follows: ?w(autism), ?(the defense of Constituition or religion), ??
(sixth sense),?
(the preceding emperor),??
(deep sense),?f(misbelief)?.
Therefore, wecan further verify the validity of the Chinese words using other resources suchas the information from the web.The current work consider only kanji/hanzi conversion for Japanese wordsthat consists on kanji only.
There are a lot of words in Japanese that are mixtureof kanji and hiragana.
This happens normally with verbs and adjectives.
Forexample, ?
Rd(eat), ?+d(escape), yXw2(produce), ?0(difficult), K0(happy), ?$(quite)?.
We should be able to get some acceptable translationsof these words after removing the hiragana parts, but most of the cases wecannot obtain the best or good translations.
From the 200 verbs that we usedfor the evaluation, 139 words exist in Chinese but only 35 are good and 43 areacceptable.
The single characters used in these words are normally used only inancient Chinese but not in contemporary Chinese.
For example,Rd =?
(eat)and ?d = ??
(throw away), but  (eat) and ?
(throw away) in Chineseare also possible translation in certain contexts.
Furthermore, the contemporaryChinese uses two character words more often than single character words eventhey have the same meaning.
This is to reduce the semantic ambiguity as singlecharacter words tend to be polysemous.
Therefore, direct kanji/hanzi conversionis not so appropriate and we need another approach to handle this type of words.We can apply the kanji/hanzi conversion method directly to most of theJapanese proper nouns, such as person names, organization names and placenames because these names are normally written in kanji characters.
Therefore,we do not need any effort to translate these words from Japanese to Chinese if680 C.-L. Goh, M. Asahara, and Y. Matsumotowe have the character conversion table.
This will ease a lot in the processing ofmachine translation and cross language information retrieval.The Unicode Consortium encoded the Han characters in Unicode6.
Till date,all the languages that use Han characters have their own encoding systems.For example, Japanese is encoded in EUC-JP or JIS, Simplified Chinese is inGB-2312, Traditional Chinese is in Big 5 etc.
The same character that is usedin different languages is assigned with different codes.
Therefore it is difficultto convert from one code to another without a conversion table.
The UnicodeConsortium solved the problem by unifying the encoding.
The same characterwith the same ideograph has only one code no matter in which language it isused.
With this unification, it eased a lot on the CJK research, especially in thearea of cross language information retrieval.
Currently, they have increased thenumber of Han characters from 27,496 characters (version 3.0) to 70,207 char-acters (version 4.0).
Such a huge increment is done by the addition of a largeamount of unusual characters that only have been used in either person namesor place names.
With this new version, it covers almost all possible charactersused in hanzi (Chinese), kanji (Japanese) and hanja (Korean).
The Unihan (uni-code for Han characters) provides a lot of information such as the origin, thespecific language using that character, conversion to other encodings etc.
Themost useful information in Unihan to our research is the relationship betweenthe characters.
It embeds the links for the variants of characters which are usefulfor the conversion from one encoding to the others (Japanese, Traditional Chi-nese, Simplified Chinese or Korean).
If we can make use of this table, then wecan build a complete conversion table that includes all Han characters.Zhang et al [11] proposed to use kanji information to find the similarity be-tween a Japanese word and a Chinese word.
They matched on the Unicode andcalculated the similarity using the one time inverse consultation.
Since they didnot make any conversion such as traditional characters to simplified characters,some of the characters have the same meaning but different Unicodes.
There-fore, they could not be matched.
If they could use the conversion table that weproposed, then it would help to increase the score of the kanji words.To convert from Japanese kanji to Simplified characters is easier than thereverse.
It is because some characters in Traditional characters are simplified intothe same characters in Simplified Chinese.
For example,b (hair) and` (deliver)are simplified to.
Therefore, it has to depend on the contexts to decide whichJapanese character to use if we were to convert the Chinese Simplified charactersback to Japanese kanji.5 ConclusionAs a conclusion, we proposed a method to compile a Japanese-Chinese dictionaryusing English as the pivot language as a starting point.
We made use of the publicavailable resources such as EDICT, CEDICT and IPADIC for the construction6 http://www.unicode.org/chart/unihan.htmlBuilding a Japanese-Chinese Dictionary Using Kanji/Hanzi Conversion 681of the new language pair.
The accuracy obtained is 77%.
Since Japanese andChinese share common Han characters which are semantically heavy loaded,the same characters used should carry the same meaning.
Therefore, we alsoproposed a kanji/hanzi conversion method to increase the translation candidates.The accuracy obtained is 97%.
The increment of translation candidates is 9%,from 24% to 33%.
The conversion table created can also be used in other fieldslike machine translation and cross language information retrieval.AcknowledgementsThis research uses EDICT file which is the property of the Electronic Dictio-nary Research and Development Group at Monash University.
Thanks go tohttp://www.mandarintools.com/zhcode.html for their Chinese Encoding Con-verter.References1.
Shogakukan and Peking Shomoinshokan, editors: Ri-Zhong Cidian [Japanese-Chinese Dictionary] (1987)2.
Asahara, M., Matsumoto, Y.: IPADIC version 2.7.0.
Users Manual.
Nara Instituteof Science and Technology, Nara, Japan.
(2003) http://chasen.naist.jp/.3.
Matsumoto, Y., Kitauchi, A., Yamashita, T., Hirano, Y., Matsuda, H., Takaoka, K.,Asahara, M.: Morphological Analysis System ChaSen version 2.2.9 Manual.
NaraInstitute of Science and Technology, Nara, Japan.
(2002) http://chasen.naist.jp/.4.
Tanaka, K., Umemura, K.: Construction of a bilingual dictionary intermediatedby a third language.
In: Proc.
of COLING.
(1994) 297?3035.
Lafourcade, M.: Multilingual dictionary construction and services - case study withthe fe* projects.
In: Proc.
of PACLING.
(1997) 289?3066.
Bond, F., Sulong, R.B., Yamazaki, T., Ogura, K.: Design and construction of amachine-tractable japanese-malay dictionary.
In: Proc.
of MT Summit VIII.
(2001)53?587.
Shirai, S., Yamamoto, K.: Linking english words in two bilingual dictionaries togenerate another language pair dictionary.
In: Proc.
of ICCPOL.
(2001) 174?1798.
Zhang, Y., Ma, Q., Isahara, H.: Automatic acquisition of a japanese-chinese bilin-gual lexicon using english as an intermediary.
In: Proc.
of NLPKE.
(2003) 471?4769.
Jim Breem: EDICT, Japanese-English Dictionary (2005)http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/?jwb/edict.html.10.
Paul Denisowski: CEDICT, Chinese-English Dictionary (2005)http://www.mandarintools.com/cedict.html.11.
Zhang, Y., Ma, Q., Isahara, H.: Use of kanji information in constructing a japanese-chinese bilingual lexicon.
In: Proc.
of ALR Workshop.
(2004) 42?4912.
Levenshtein, V.: Binary codes capable of correcting deletions, insertions and re-versals.
Doklady Akademii Nauk SSSR 163 (1965) 845?84813.
Zhang, Y., Isahara, H.: Acquiring compound word translation both automaticallyand dynamically.
In: Proc.
of PACLIC 18.
(2004) 181?18514.
Peking University: (Peking University Dictionary) http://www.icl.pku.edu.cn/.
