Effect of Domain-Specific Corpusin Compositional Translation Estimation for Technical TermsMasatsugu Tonoike?, Mitsuhiro Kida?,Takehito Utsuro?
?Graduate School of Informatics,Kyoto UniversityYoshida-Honmachi, Sakyo-ku,Kyoto 606-8501 Japan(tonoike,kida,takagi,sasaki,utsuro)@pine.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jpToshihiro Takagi?, Yasuhiro Sasaki?,and Satoshi Sato?
?Graduate School of Engineering,Nagoya UniversityFuro-cho, Chikusa-ku,Nagoya 464-8603 JAPANssato@nuee.nagoya-u.ac.jpAbstractThis paper studies issues on compilinga bilingual lexicon for technical terms.In the task of estimating bilingual termcorrespondences of technical terms, itis usually quite difficult to find an exist-ing corpus for the domain of such tech-nical terms.
In this paper, we take anapproach of collecting a corpus for thedomain of such technical terms fromthe Web.
As a method of translationestimation for technical terms, we pro-pose a compositional translation esti-mation technique.
Through experimen-tal evaluation, we show that the do-main/topic specific corpus contributesto improving the performance of thecompositional translation estimation.1 IntroductionThis paper studies issues on compiling a bilinguallexicon for technical terms.
So far, several tech-niques of estimating bilingual term correspon-dences from a parallel/comparable corpus havebeen studied (Matsumoto and Utsuro, 2000).
Forexample, in the case of estimation from compa-rable corpora, (Fung and Yee, 1998; Rapp, 1999)proposed standard techniques of estimating bilin-gual term correspondences from comparable cor-pora.
In their techniques, contextual similaritybetween a source language term and its transla-tion candidate is measured across the languages,and all the translation candidates are re-ranked ac-cording to the contextual similarities.
However,collecting termsof specificdomain/topic(language S )XSU (# of translationsis one)compiled bilingual lexiconprocess datacollectingcorpus(language T )domain/topicspecificcorpus(language T )sample termsof specificdomain/topic(language S )XSTU , XSTM ,YSTestimating bilingual termcorrespondenceslanguage pair (S,T )term set(language S )XTU(lang.
T )translation set(language T )web(language S )web(language S )existingbilingual lexiconXSM (# of translationsis more than one)YS (# of translationsis zero)web(language T )web(language T )looking upbilingual lexiconvalidatingtranslationcandidatesFigure 1: Compilation of a Domain/Topic Spe-cific Bilingual Lexiconthere are limited number of parallel/comparablecorpora that are available for the purpose of es-timating bilingual term correspondences.
There-fore, even if one wants to apply those existingtechniques to the task of estimating bilingual termcorrespondences of technical terms, it is usuallyquite difficult to find an existing corpus for thedomain of such technical terms.Considering such a situation, we take an ap-proach of collecting a corpus for the domain ofsuch technical terms from the Web.
In this ap-proach, in order to compile a bilingual lexiconfor technical terms, the following two issues haveto be addressed: collecting technical terms to belisted as the headwords of a bilingual lexicon, andestimating translation of those technical terms.Among those two issues, this paper focuses on thesecond issue of translation estimation of technicalterms, and proposes a method for translation es-timation for technical terms using a domain/topicspecific corpus collected from the Web.More specifically, the overall framework of114compiling a bilingual lexicon from the Web canbe illustrated as in Figure 1.
Suppose that we havesample terms of a specific domain/topic, techni-cal terms to be listed as the headwords of a bilin-gual lexicon are collected from the Web by the re-lated term collection method of (Sato and Sasaki,2003).
Those collected technical terms can be di-vided into three subsets according to the numberof translation candidates they have in an existingbilingual lexicon, i.e., the subset XUS of terms forwhich the number of translations in the existingbilingual lexicon is one, the subset XMS of termsfor which the number of translations is more thanone, and the subset YS of terms which are notfound in the existing bilingual lexicon.
(Hence-forth, the union XUS ?
XMS is denoted as XS .
)The translation estimation task here is to estimatetranslations for the terms of XMS and YS .
For theterms of XMS , it is required to select an appro-priate translation from the translation candidatesfound in the existing bilingual lexicon.
For ex-ample, as a translation of the Japanese technicalterm ?????
?, which belongs to the logic cir-cuit field, the term ?register?
should be selectedbut not the term ?regista?
of the football field.
Onthe other hand, for the terms of YS , it is requiredto generate and validate translation candidates.
Inthis paper, for the above two tasks, we use a do-main/topic specific corpus.
Each term of XUS hasthe only one translation in the existing bilinguallexicon.
The set of the translations of terms ofXUS is denoted as XUT .
Then, the domain/topicspecific corpus is collected from the Web usingthe terms in the set XUT .
A new bilingual lexiconis compiled from the result of translation estima-tion for the terms of XMS and YS , as well as thetranslation pairs which consist of the terms of XUSand their translations found in the existing bilin-gual lexicon.For each term of XMS , from the translation can-didates found in the existing bilingual lexicon, weselect the one which appears most frequently inthe domain/topic specific corpus.
The experimen-tal result of this translation selection process is de-scribed in Section 5.2.As a method of translation genera-tion/validation for technical terms, we propose acompositional translation estimation technique.Compositional translation estimation of a termcan be done through the process of composi-tionally generating translation candidates of theterm by concatenating the translation of theconstituents of the term.
Here, those translationcandidates are validated using the domain/topicspecific corpus.In order to assess the applicability of the com-positional translation estimation technique, werandomly pick up 667 Japanese and English tech-nical term translation pairs of 10 domains fromexisting technical term bilingual lexicons.
Wethen manually examine their compositionality,and find out that 88% of them are actually com-positional, which is a very encouraging result.Based on this assessment, this paper proposes amethod of compositional translation estimationfor technical terms, and through experimentalevaluation, shows that the domain/topic specificcorpus contributes to improving the performanceof compositional translation estimation.2 Collecting a Domain/Topic SpecificCorpusWhen collecting a domain/topic specific corpus ofthe language T , for each technical term xUT in theset XUT , we collect the top 100 pages with searchengine queries including xUT .
Our search enginequeries are designed so that documents which de-scribe the technical term xUT is to be ranked high.For example, an online glossary is one of suchdocuments.
Note that queries in English and thosein Japanese do not correspond.
When collect-ing a Japanese corpus, the search engine ?goo?1is used.
Specific queries used here are phraseswith topic-marking postpositional particles suchas ?xUT ??
?, ?xUT ???
?, ?xUT ?
?, and an ad-nominal phrase ?xUT ?
?, and ?xUT ?.
When col-lecting a English corpus, the search engine ?Ya-hoo!
?2 is used.
Specific queries used here are ?xUTAND what?s?, ?xUT AND glossary?, and ?xUT ?.3 Compositional Translation Estimationfor Technical Terms3.1 OverviewAn example of compositional translation estima-tion for the Japanese technical term ??????1http://www.goo.ne.jp/2http://www.yahoo.com/115?
application(1)?
practical(0.3)?
applied(1.6)?
action(1)?
activity(1)?
behavior(1)?
analysis(1)?
diagnosis(1)?
assay(0.3)?
behavior analysis(10)?
?Compositional generationof translation candidate?
applied behavior analysis(17.6)?
application behavior analysis(11)?
applied behavior diagnosis(1)?
?Decompose source term into constituents?
?Translate constituents into target language      process??
??
??a??
???
?bGenerated translation candidates?(1.6?1?1)+(1.6?10)?
application(1)?
practical(0.3)?
applied(1.6)Figure 2: Compositional Translation Estimationfor the Japanese Technical Term ??????????
is shown in Figure 2.
First, the Japanese tech-nical term ????????
is decomposed intoits constituents by consulting an existing bilin-gual lexicon and retrieving Japanese headwords.3In this case, the result of this decomposition canbe given as in the cases ?a?
and ?b?
(in Fig-ure 2).
Then, each constituent is translated intothe target language.
A confidence score is as-signed to the translation of each constituent.
Fi-nally, translation candidates are generated by con-catenating the translation of those constituentswithout changing word order.
The confidencescore of translation candidates are defined as theproduct of the confidence scores of each con-stituent.
Here, when validating those translationcandidates using the domain/topic specific cor-pus, those which are not observed in the corpusare not regarded as candidates.3.2 Compiling Bilingual ConstituentsLexiconsThis section describes how to compile bilingualconstituents lexicons from the translation pairs ofthe existing bilingual lexicon Eijiro.
The under-lying idea of augmenting the existing bilinguallexicon with bilingual constituents lexicons is il-lustrated with the example of Figure 3.
Supposethat the existing bilingual lexicon does not in-clude the translation pair ?applied :??
?, whileit includes many compound translation pairs withthe first English word as ?applied?
and the first3Here, as an existing bilingual lexicon, we use Ei-jiro(http://www.alc.co.jp/) and bilingual constituents lexi-cons compiled from the translation pairs of Eijiro (detailsto be described in the next section). applied mathematics : ??
?
?applied science : ??
?
?applied robot : ??
????...
frequency?
?
?applied : ??
: 40 Figure 3: Example of Estimating Bilingual Con-stituents Translation Pair (Prefix)Table 1: Numbers of Entries and Translation Pairsin the Lexiconslexicon # of entries # of translationEnglish Japanese pairsEijiro 1,292,117 1,228,750 1,671,230P2232,716 200,633 258,211BP38,353 38,546 112,586BS22,281 20,627 71,429Eijiro : existing bilingual lexiconP2: entries of Eijiro with two constituentsin both languagesBP: bilingual constituents lexicon (prefix)BS: bilingual constituents lexicon (suffix)Japanese word ???
?.4 In such a case, we alignthose translation pairs and estimate a bilingualconstituent translation pair, which is to be col-lected into a bilingual constituents lexicon.More specifically, from the existing bilinguallexicon, we first collect translation pairs whoseEnglish terms and Japanese terms consist of twoconstituents into another lexicon P2.
We compile?bilingual constituents lexicon (prefix)?
from thefirst constituents of the translation pairs in P2andcompile ?bilingual constituents lexicon (suffix)?from their second constituents.
The numbers ofentries in each language and those of translationpairs in those lexicons are shown in Table 1.In the result of our assessment, only 27% of the667 translation pairs mentioned in Section 1 canbe compositionally generated using Eijiro, whilethe rate increases up to 49% using both Eijiro and?bilingual constituents lexicons?.54Japanese entries are supposed to be segmented into asequence of words by the morphological analyzer JUMAN(http://www.kc.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp/nl-resource/juman.html)5In our rough estimation, the upper bound of this rateis about 80%.
Improvement from 49% to 80% could beachieved by extending the bilingual constituents lexiconsand by introducing constituent reordering rules with preposi-tions into the process of compositional translation candidategeneration.1163.3 Score of Translation Pairs in theLexiconsThis section introduces a confidence score oftranslation pairs in the various lexicons presentedin the previous section.
Here, we suppose thatthe translation pair ?s, t?
of terms s and t is usedwhen estimating translation from the language ofthe term s to that of the term t. First, in this pa-per, we assume that translation pairs follow cer-tain preference rules and can be ordered as below:1.
Translation pairs ?s, t?
in the existing bilin-gual lexicon Eijiro, where the term s consistsof two or more constituents.2.
Translation pairs in the bilingual constituentslexicons whose frequencies in P2are high.3.
Translation pairs ?s, t?
in the existing bilin-gual lexicon Eijiro, where the term s consistsof exactly one constituent.4.
Translation pairs in the bilingual constituentslexicons whose frequencies in P2are nothigh.As the definition of the confidence scoreq(?s, t?)
of a translation pair ?s, t?, in this paper,we use the following:q(?s, t?)
=????
?10(compo(s)?1) (?s, t?
in Eijiro)log10fp(?s, t?)
(?s, t?
in BP )log10fs(?s, t?)
(?s, t?
in BS)(1)where compo(s) denotes the word (in English) ormorpheme (in Japanese) count of s, fp(?s, t?)
thefrequency of ?s, t?
as the first constituent in P2,and fs(?s, t?)
the frequency of ?s, t?
as the secondconstituent in P2.63.4 Score of Translation CandidatesSuppose that a translation candidate yt is gener-ated from translation pairs ?s1, t1?, ?
?
?
, ?sn, tn?by concatenating t1, ?
?
?
, tn as yt = t1 ?
?
?
tn.Here, in this paper, we define the confidence scoreof yt as the product of the confidence scores of the6It is necessary to empirically examine whether this def-inition of the confidence score is optimal or not.
However,according to our rough qualitative examination, the resultsof the confidence scoring seem stable when without a do-main/topic specific corpus, even with minor tuning by incor-porating certain parameters into the score.collecting termsof specificdomain/topic(language S )XSU (# of translationsis one)compiled bilingual lexiconprocess datacollectingcorpus(language T )domain/topicspecificcorpus(language T )sample termsof specificdomain/topic(language S )XSTU , XSTM ,YSTestimating bilingual termcorrespondenceslanguage pair (S,T )term set(language S )XTU(lang.
T )translation set(language T )web(language S )web(language S )existingbilingual lexiconXSM (# of translationsis more than one)YS (# of translationsis zero)web(language T )web(language T )looking upbilingual lexiconvalidatingtranslationcandidatesFigure 4: Experimental Evaluation of TranslationEstimation for Technical Terms with/without theDomain/Topic Specific Corpus (taken from Fig-ure 1)constituent translation pairs ?s1, t1?, ?
?
?
, ?sn, tn?.Q(yt) =n?i=1q(?si, ti?)
(2)If a translation candidate is generated frommore than one sequence of translation pairs, thescore of the translation candidate is defined as thesum of the score of each sequence.4 Translation Candidate Validationusing a Domain/Topic Specific CorpusIt is not clear whether translation candidateswhich are generated by the method described inSection 3 are valid as English or Japanese terms,and it is not also clear whether they belong to thedomain/topic.
So using a domain/topic specificcorpus collected by the method described in Sec-tion 2, we examine whether the translation candi-dates are valid as English or Japanese terms andwhether they belong to the domain/topic.
In ourvalidation method, given a ranked list of trans-lation candidates, each translation candidate ischecked whether it is observed in the corpus, andone which is not observed in the corpus is re-moved from the list.5 Experiments and Evaluation5.1 Translation Pairs for EvaluationIn our experimental evaluation, within the frame-work of compiling a bilingual lexicon for tech-nical terms, we evaluate the translation estima-tion part which is indicated with bold line in Fig-117Table 2: Number of Translation Pairs for Evaluationdictionaries categories |XS| |YS|S = English S = Japanese|XUS| |XMS| C(S) |XUS| |XMS| C(S)Electromagnetics 58 33 36 22 82% 32 26 76%McGraw-Hill Electrical engineering 52 45 34 18 67% 25 27 64%Optics 54 31 42 12 65% 22 32 65%Iwanami Programming language 55 29 37 18 86% 38 17 100%Programming 53 29 29 24 86% 29 24 79%Dictionary of (Computer) 100 100 91 9 46% 69 31 56%ComputerAnatomical Terms 100 100 91 9 86% 33 67 39%Dictionary of Disease 100 100 91 9 74% 53 47 51%250,000 Chemicals and Drugs 100 100 94 6 58% 74 26 51%medical terms Physical Science and Statistics 100 100 88 12 64% 58 42 55%Total 772 667 633 139 68% 433 339 57%McGraw-Hill : Dictionary of Scientific and Technical TermsIwanami : Encyclopedic Dictionary of Computer ScienceC(S) : for YS, the rate of including correct translations within the collected domain/topic specific corpusure 4.
In the evaluation of this paper, we sim-ply skip the evaluation of the process of collectingtechnical terms to be listed as the headwords of abilingual lexicon.
In order to evaluate the transla-tion estimation part, from ten categories of exist-ing Japanese-English technical term dictionarieslisted in Table 2, terms are randomly picked upfor each of the set XUS , XMS , and YS .
(Here, asthe terms of YS , these which consist of the onlyone word or morpheme are excluded.)
As de-scribed in Section 1, the terms of XUT (the setof the translations for the terms of XUS ) is usedfor collecting a domain/topic specific corpus fromthe Web.
Translation estimation evaluation is tobe done against the set XMS and YS .
For each ofthe ten categories, Table 2 shows the sizes of XUS ,XMS and YS , and for YS , the rate of including cor-rect translation within the collected domain/topicspecific corpus, respectively.5.2 Translation Selection from ExistingBilingual LexiconFor the terms of XMS , the selected translations arejudged by a human.
The correct rates are 69%from English to Japanese on the average and 75%from Japanese to English on the average.5.3 Compositional Translation Estimationfor Technical Terms without theDomain/Topic Specific CorpusWithout the domain specific corpus, the cor-rect rate of the first ranked translation candidateis 19% on the average (both from English toJapanese and from Japanese to English).
Therate of including correct candidate within top 10is 40% from English to Japanese and 43% fromJapanese to English on the average.
The rate ofcompositionally generating correct translation us-ing both Eijiro and the bilingual constituents lex-icons (n = ?)
is about 50% on the average (bothfrom English to Japanese and from Japanese toEnglish).5.4 Compositional Translation Estimationfor Technical Terms with theDomain/Topic Specific CorpusWith domain specific corpus, on the average, thecorrect rate of the first ranked translation candi-date improved by 8% from English to Japaneseand by 2% from Japanese to English.
However,the rate of including correct candidate within top10 decreased by 7% from English to Japanese,and by 14% from Japanese to English.
This is be-cause correct translation does not exist in the cor-pus for 32% (from English to Japanese) or 43%(from Japanese to English) of the 667 translationpairs for evaluation.For about 35% (from English to Japanese) or30% (from Japanese to English) of the 667 trans-lation pairs for evaluation, correct translation doesexist in the corpus and can be generated throughthe compositional translation estimation process.For those 35% or 30% translation pairs, Fig-ure 5 compares the correct rate of the first rankedtranslation pairs between with/without the do-main/topic specific corpus.
The correct rates in-crease by 34?37% with the domain/topic specificcorpus.
This result supports the claim that the do-118???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
(a) English to Japanese???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
(b) Japanese to EnglishFigure 5: Evaluation against the Translation Pairswhose Correct Translation Exist in the Corpusand can be Generated Compositionallymain/topic specific corpus is effective in transla-tion estimation of technical terms.6 Related WorksAs a related work, (Fujii and Ishikawa, 2001)proposed a technique of compositional estima-tion of bilingual term correspondences for thepurpose of cross-language information retrieval.In (Fujii and Ishikawa, 2001), a bilingual con-stituents lexicon is compiled from the translationpairs included in an existing bilingual lexicon inthe same way as our proposed method.
One of themajor differences of the technique of (Fujii andIshikawa, 2001) and the one proposed in this pa-per is that in (Fujii and Ishikawa, 2001), instead ofthe domain/topic specific corpus, they use a cor-pus of the collection of the technical papers, eachof which is published by one of the 65 Japaneseassociations for various technical domains.
An-other important difference is that in (Fujii andIshikawa, 2001), they evaluate only the perfor-mance of cross-language information retrieval butnot that of translation estimation.
(Cao and Li, 2002) proposed a method of com-positional translation estimation for compounds.In the proposed method of (Cao and Li, 2002),translation candidates of a term are composition-ally generated by concatenating the translationof the constituents of the term and are re-rankedby measuring contextual similarity against thesource language term.
One of the major differ-ences of the technique of (Cao and Li, 2002) andthe one proposed in this paper is that in (Cao andLi, 2002), they do not use the domain/topic spe-cific corpus.7 ConclusionThis paper proposed a method of compositionaltranslation estimation for technical terms usingthe domain/topic specific corpus, and throughthe experimental evaluation, showed that the do-main/topic specific corpus contributes to improv-ing the performance of compositional translationestimation.Future works include the followings: first, inorder to improve the proposed method with re-spect to its coverage, for example, it is desir-able to extend the bilingual constituents lexiconsand to introduce constituent reordering rules withprepositions into the process of compositionaltranslation candidate generation.
Second, we areplanning to introduce a mechanism of re-rankingtranslation candidates based on the frequencies oftechnical terms in the domain/topic specific cor-pus.ReferencesY.
Cao and H. Li.
2002.
Base noun phrase translation usingWeb data and the EM algorithm.
In Proc.
19th COLING,pages 127?133.Atsushi Fujii and Tetsuya Ishikawa.
2001.
Japanese/englishcross-language information retrieval: Exploration ofquery translation and transliteration.
Computers and theHumanities, 35(4):389?420.P.
Fung and L. Y. Yee.
1998.
An IR approach for translatingnew words from nonparallel, comparable texts.
In Proc.17th COLING and 36th ACL, pages 414?420.Y.
Matsumoto and T. Utsuro.
2000.
Lexical knowledge ac-quisition.
In R. Dale, H. Moisl, and H. Somers, editors,Handbook of Natural Language Processing, chapter 24,pages 563?610.
Marcel Dekker Inc.R.
Rapp.
1999.
Automatic identification of word transla-tions from unrelated English and German corpora.
InProc.
37th ACL, pages 519?526.S.
Sato and Y. Sasaki.
2003.
Automatic collection of relatedterms from the web.
In Proc.
41st ACL, pages 121?124.119
