Automatic Extraction of English-Korean Translations for Constitu-ents of Technical TermsJong-Hoon Oh and Key-Sun ChoiDepartment of Computer Science, Division of EECS, KAIST/KORTERM/BOLA373-1 Guseong-dong, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, 305-701, Republic of Korea{rovellia,kschoi}@world.kaist.ac.krAbstract*Technical terms are linguistic realiza-tion of a domain concept and their con-stituents are a component used forrepresenting the concept.
Many techni-cal terms are usually multi-word termsand their meaning can be inferred fromtheir constituents.
Because a term con-stituent is usually a morphological unitrather than a conceptual unit in Koreantechnical terms, we need to first iden-tify conceptual units and then to re-solve the proper meaning of theconceptual units in order to properlytranslate technical terms.
For naturallanguage applications to properly han-dle technical terms, it is necessary togive information about conceptual unitsand their meaning including homonym,synonym and domain dependency.
Inthis paper, we propose a term constitu-ent alignment algorithm, which extractssuch information from bilingual techni-cal term pairs.
Our algorithm regardsEnglish term constituents as a concep-tual unit and then finds its Koreancounterpart.
Our method shows about6.1% AER.1 IntroductionTechnical terms are linguistic realization of adomain specific concept and their constituentsare a component used for representing the con-cept (Sager, 1997).
Technical terms can be clas-sified into single-word terms, and complex term* The first author's current affiliation is with ComputationalLinguistics Group, National Institute of Information andCommunications Technology, 3-5 Hikaridai, Seika-cho,Soraku-gun, Kyoto, 619-0289 Japan(or multi-word term) according to the number oftheir constituents.
Single-word terms have oneterm constituent while complex terms have morethan one term constituent.
Many Korean techni-cal terms are usually complex terms and theirmeaning can be inferred from their constituents(Sager, 1997).
Therefore it is helpful to identifyconstituents of technical terms and their mean-ing in order to understand the meaning of thetechnical terms and to translate the technicalterm from one?s language to the other.
However,a term constituent is usually a morphologicalunit rather than a conceptual unit1  in Koreantechnical terms.
Due to the mismatch between aterm constituent and a conceptual unit, we needto first identify conceptual units which is achunk of term constituents representing a do-main specific concept (?chunking conceptualunits?)
and then to resolve the proper meaningof the conceptual unit (?resolving meanings?)
inorder to properly understand the meaning oftechnical terms and to translate them.In the ?chunking conceptual units?
stage, it isnecessary to determine whether one term con-stituent represents a concept or not.
The decisiondepends on contexts of term constituents.
Forexample, a Korean technical term, ?seong?
canbe a conceptual unit by itself when it representssex.
But ?seong?
in the context of ?hyang-chuk+seong / bun-yeol+jo-jik?
2  (representingadaxial meristem) should be recognized as aconceptual unit along with its neighborhood?hyang-chuk?
such as ?hyang-chuk+seong?
(ad-axial).
If ?seong?
is recognized as a conceptualunit by itself in the context, like ?hyang-chuk(adaxial) / seong (sex) / bun-yeol+jo-jik (meris-1 In this paper, a conceptual unit is defined as the linguisticunit representing a domain specific concept.2 In this paper, Romanized Korean transcriptions are repre-sented in the quotation mark.
In the transcriptions, ?+?represents the boundary of term constituents, ?-?
representsthe syllable boundary and ?/?
represents the boundary ofconceptual units.67tem)?, we can neither understand the designatedmeaning of ?hyang-chuk+seong / bun-yeol+jo-jik?
(?meristem of a leaf cell in the adaxialarea?)
nor properly translate it.In the ?resolving meanings?
stage, homonym,synonym, and domain dependency of conceptualunits should be considered.
Sino-Korean affixesare frequently used for coining Korean technicalterms and are used as a conceptual unit like sin-gle words.
Moreover, they are usually homonym.For example, a suffix ?-gi?
is used as a term con-stituent in a biology domain with four senseslike group (?
), period (?
), stage (?
), and or-gan (?).
Therefore, disambiguating the sense ofsuch affixes is very important for understandinga Korean technical term.Many Korean technical terms are from for-eign origin.
These technical terms become Ko-rean technical terms with various translationways ?
1) translation with pure Korean words,2) translation with Sino-Korean words, 3) trans-literation, 4) combinations of the three ways.Moreover, each translation way produces somevariations.
For example, abdominal is translatedinto three different Korean terms like ?bok-bu?,?bok?, and ?bae?, but they indicate the samemeaning; in other words, they are synonym.
ab-dominal is translated into two Sino-Koreanterms like ?bok-bu (??)?
and ?bok (?
)?, andone pure Korean term, ?bae?.
Capturing syno-nym, therefore, is important for understandingmeaning of technical terms.Depending on domain of technical terms,translations of conceptual units can be different.For example, the meaning of cell in chemistry,physics, and electricity is usually ?A single unitthat converts radiant energy into electric energy?,while that in biology is usually ?The smalleststructural unit of an organism?.
In each case,cell is differently translated into Korean terms?jeon-ji?
(in chemistry, physics, and electricitydomain), and ?se-po?
(biology domain).For natural language applications to properlyhandle technical terms, it is necessary to giveinformation about conceptual units and theirmeaning including homonym, synonym anddomain dependency.
In this paper, we propose aterm constituent alignment algorithm, whichextracts such information from bilingual techni-cal term pairs.
In our algorithm, one or morethan one English term constituents are regardedas a conceptual unit.
Therefore, the main objec-tive of our algorithm is to recognize conceptualunits of Korean technical terms corresponding toan English term constituent in English-Koreantranslation pairs of technical terms.The recognized bilingual conceptual unitsgive contextual information, which supports de-cision whether certain term constituent tends tobe used as a conceptual unit by itself or not.Homonym and synonym can be handled by find-ing the correspondence between English andKorean conceptual units.
Because English andKorean conceptual units indicating the sameconcept will be linked to each other, we can eas-ily find homonym and synonym from the rela-tions.
For example, the homonym ?gi?
will belinked to four different English conceptual units.In the same manner, we can capture three rela-tions between the English conceptual unit ab-dominal and its counterparts ?bok-bu?, ?bok?,and ?bae?.
The three Korean counterparts can beclustered as synonyms by means of their corre-sponding English conceptual unit, like {?bok-bu?, ?bok?, ?bae?}.
Moreover, domain depend-ency of conceptual units can be handled by therelations because extracted relations for certainEnglish conceptual unit, which has domain de-pendency, will be different depending on do-mains.This paper organized as follows.
In section 2,we will describe the related works.
Section 3shows details of our method.
Section 4 dealswith experiments.
Conclusion and future worksare drawn in sections 5.2 Related WorksOne of the well-known alignment techniques isthe one based on statistical machine translationmodels.
It was initially proposed by (Brown etal., 1993) and, more recently, have been inten-sively studied by several research groups (Ger-mann et al, 2001; Och et al, 2003).
It is usedfor finding sentence, phrase, and word-level cor-respondences from parallel texts.
It can beformulated as equation (1).
For the give sourcetext, S, it finds the most probable alignment set,A, and target text, T.?
?=AaSaTpSTp )|,()|(    (1)Brown (Brown et al, 1993) proposed fivealignment models, called IBM Model, for anEnglish-French alignment task based on equa-68tion (1).
Equation (2) describes the IBM Model1.
It is modeled by two assumptions - P(F|E)depends on word translation probability t(fj|ei)and one English word was aligned to one Frenchword (1:1 alignment).
t(fj|ei) is estimated by EMalgorithm.?
?= ==mjliijml eftCEFp1 1, )|()|(  (2)where, m represents the length of F, l representsthe length of E, and Cl,m is a constant value de-termined by l (the length of E) and m (the lengthof F).IBM Model 2 considers distortion (Howlikely is a source language word in position i toalign to a target language word in position j).IBM Model 3 adopts fertility (How likely is asource language word to align to k target lan-guage words) as its parameter for 1:n alignment.IBM Model 4 and 5 make use of relative distor-tion, word classes and variables to avoid defi-ciency.There is another stream of studies on align-ment.
(Chen et al, 1993; Gale et al, 1993) pro-posed sentence alignment techniques based ondynamic programming, using sentence lengthand lexical mapping information.
(Haruno et al,1996; Kay et al, 1993) applied iterative refine-ment algorithms to sentence level alignmenttasks.In this paper, we propose an alignment algo-rithm between English and Korean conceptualunits (or between English and Korean term con-stituents) in English-Korean technical term pairsbased on IBM Model (Brown et al, 1993).Unlike IBM Model, our alignment model candeal with n:1 alignment.
While the IBM Modelaimed to word-level alignment of parallel texts,our method focuses on word- and morphology-level alignment of English-Korean term pairs.Moreover, our algorithm reflects the translationproperties of English-to-Korean technical termpairs in a bilingual dictionary.3 Term Constituent AlignmentFor term constituent alignment, we use biology,chemistry and physics dictionaries where termconstituents are manually segmented and theirpart-of-speech is manually assigned.
For exam-ple, the Korean counterpart of crop growth rateis ?jak-mul + seng-jang + yul?
and its three termconstituents are ?jak-mul?, ?seng-jang?, and ?yul?where the first two are a noun and the last one isa suffix.The problem can be defined as finding corre-spondence between English and Korean termconstituents as described in equation (3).
For agiven English term E=e1,?,en, composed of nEnglish term constituents and its correspondingKorean term K=k1,?,km, composed of m Koreanterm constituents, the task is to find alignmentset, A={a1,....,at;ap=(ei,i+w(p),, kj(p))}, maximizingprobability P(A|K,E), where ei is the ith termconstituent of E, kj is the jth term constituent ofK, and ap represents the pth alignment relationbetween English and Korean term constituents.Note that ap=(ei,i+w(p), kj(p)) (w ?
0) represents analignment relation between English term con-stituents ei ,?,ei+w  and Korean term constituentkj.
For example, there are two alignment rela-tions for English term female sex hormone andKorean term ?ja-seong + ho-leu-mon?, like a1=(e1,2(1)=female sex, k1(1)=?ja-seong?)
and a2=(e1(2)=hormone, k2(2)=?ho-leu-mon?
)),|(maxarg* EKAPAA=   (3)3.1  Statistical ModelingIn this section, first, we describe two translationproperties (or constraints), derived from analysisof the alignment tendency between English-Korean term constituents and then describe howto apply these properties to statistical modelingof term constituent alignment.We randomly sample 20% data of English-Korean term pairs in each technical dictionaryand finds two properties ?Cross alignment ap-pears in some conditions?3 and ?Null Alignmenthardly appears?4 by analyzing the sampled data.Constraint 1: Cross alignment is partly al-lowed.Let algnment units in a source language be si,sj(i<j), where i and j are the index of the sourcelanguage, and those in a target language be tq, tr(q<r), where q and r are the index in the targetlanguage.
Then alignment ai=(si,tr), andaj=(sj,tq) are called cross alignment.
Because asentence structure of Korean is different from3 Among analyzed data, 1.3% for biology, 0.1% for physicsand 5.65% for chemistry show cross alignment.4 Among analyzed data, 0.8% for biology, 0.2% for physicsand 0.1% for chemistry show null alignment.69that of English, cross-alignment between Eng-lish and Korean words frequently occurs in par-allel sentences (Shin et al, 1995).
For alignmentbetween term constituents, however, mostalignment relations are derived from sequentialalignment because technical terms, which areusually noun phrases, share the similar structure,say modifier and modifee, in both languages.Sometimes there is cross-alignment because ofthe preposition in an English term such as of.
Inthat case, we allow cross-alignment.
For exam-ple, there is a cross-alignment relation such as a1= (e2 = blood, k1 = ?hyeol-aek?)
and a2 = (e1 =clotting, k2 = ?eung-go?)
between the Englishterm clotting of blood and its Korean translation?hyeol-aek + eung-go?.
Note that we do not con-sider the preposition of as an alignment unit inthat case.
English-Korean term pairs represent-ing a name of chemical compounds usuallyshow cross-alignment and 1:1 alignment.
Todeal with this case, we allow cross-alignmentwhen the number of English term constituentsand that of Korean term constituents are same.With the constraint 1, sequential alignment isperformed except the above two cases.Constraint 2:  Null Alignment is not allowed.Constraint 2 means that all English and Koreanterm constituents should be aligned.
Because,term pairs consist of an English term and itstranslated Korean term, we assume that all con-stituents should be aligned.
Null alignmentmeans that an alignment unit in one side isaligned to nothing in the other side.
For example,for Dutch elm disease and ?ne-deol-lan-deu(Dutch) / neu-leup-na-mu (elm) / che-gwan(sieve tube) / byeong (disease)?, there is no Eng-lish term constituent to be aligned to the Koreanterm constituent ?che-gwan (sieve tube)?.
Be-cause, null alignment, however, does not fre-quently appear in term constituent alignment(only the 0.1%~0.8% data among analyzed data),we do not consider null alignment in our algo-rithm.
),,,|(),|(),|(1)(,)( tmnjiaekapEKAPtllwiiljl?=+ ?=  (4)),|()|(),,|(),|(,,)(,)()()(,)(wiijtjwwiijtlwiiljwljtllwiiljlekkpekpekkapekap++++?
?=  (5)By the constraints, equation (3) can be repre-sented as equation (4).
In equation (4), n, m, andt represent the number of English term constitu-ents, the number of Korean term constituentsand the number of alignment relations betweenterm constituents.
In equation (4), a(i|j,n,t)represents position information, which is a bi-nary-valued function and supports the constraint1.
a(i|j,n,m,t) = 0 when ap= a(ei,i+w(p),kj(p)) iscross-alignment, which is not allowed by con-straint 1, otherwise a(i|j,n,m,t) = 1.In equation (4), p(al|kj(l),ei,i+w(l)) are estimatedby equation (5).
In equation (5), kj(l) is repre-sented by kwj and ktj where kwj and ktj are lexicalinformation and part of speech information ofthe jth Korean term constituent, respectively.3.2 Parameter Estimation with EM Algo-rithmParameters, p(ktj|ei,i+w) and p(kwj| ktj, ei,i+w), inequation (5) are estimated with EM (Expecta-tion-Maximization) algorithm.
EM algorithm isthe technique for parameter estimation of ge-neric statistical distributions in presence of in-complete data (Dempster et al, 1997).
The maingoal of EM is to obtain the estimated parametersthat give maximum likelihood to the input (in-complete) data.
The basic idea underlying theEM algorithm is to iterate through a series ofexpectation (E-step) and maximization (M-step)steps where the estimation of the parameters ofthe model is progressively refined until conver-gence (Lopez et al, 1999).In this paper, parameters are estimatedthrough two steps, called ?initial parameter es-timation?
and ?iterative parameter estimation?.In the initial parameter estimation step, the ini-tial parameters are determined by seed data.Seed data, which contains alignment relationsderived from E=e1,?,en  and E?s Korean transla-tion K=k1,?,km, where n =1 or m = 1, was se-lected among data for term constituentalignment.
In the condition of n = 1 or m = 1,English technical terms or Korean technicalterms are a conceptual unit by itself.
In otherwords, alignment relations can be directly ex-tracted from the English-Korean term pairs if70there is only one English term constituent oronly one Korean term constituent.
With the seeddata we can get the initial alignment relation setA(0) and then the initial parameter ?
(0) is esti-mated with A(0), where A(k) represents thealignment relation set and ?
(k) represents theestimated parameter set derived from the kth it-eration.
Note that A={a1,....,at;ap=(ei,i+w(p),kj(p))}and ?={p(ktj|ei,i+w), p(kwj| ktj, ei,i+w)}.In the iterative parameter estimation step,A(k) is determined by ?
(k-1) in E-step and ?
(k) is estimated by A(k) in M-step using thewhole data until ?
(k) converges.
E-step and M-step can be represented as equation (6)))1(;,|(maxarg)(: ?=?
kKEApkAstepE A ?
))(|(maxarg)(: kApkstepM ??
?=?
(6)p(ktj|ei) and p(kwj| ktj, ei) are estimated in thekth iteration as equation (7) and (8), respectively.In order to prevent zero probability, the Laplacesmoothing method (Manning et al, 1999) is ap-plied to equation (7) and (8).
))(;(||))(;,(1))(;|(,,, kAeCEkAekCkAekpwiiwiijtwiijt+++ ++=       (7)))(;,(||||))(;,,(1))(;,|(,,, kAekCETkAekkCkAekkpwiijtwiijtjwwiijtjw+++ +++= (8)where C(x) represents frequency of x, |E| repre-sents the number of unique English term con-stituents in A(k), |T| represents the number ofunique POS tags of Korean term constituents inA(k).4 ExperimentsFor experiments we use three kinds of technicaldictionary.
They are biology, chemistry, andphysics technical dictionaries where Koreanterm constituents are manually analyzed.
Thecharacteristics of experimental data are summa-rized as Table 1 (Ministry, 2002).Domain Seed data Test data TotalBiology  8,163 5,668 13,831Physics 2,757 8,047 10,804Chemistry  5,353 10,024 15,377Table 1.
Characteristics experimental data (thenumber of bilingual term pairs)We compare our model with IBM Model 2(IBM-2), and IBM Model 4 (IBM-4) imple-mented by GIZA++ (Och et al, 2003).
Weevaluate results with the alignment error rate(AER) of Och and Ney (Och et al, 2003), whichmeasures agreement at the level of pairs of termconstituents.5||||||21GAGAAER +??
?=    (9)where A is the set of term constituent pairsaligned by the automatic system, and G is the setaligned in the gold standard.4.1 Experimental resultsTable 2 shows evaluation results for IBM-2,IBM-4 and our proposed method.
In the resultsprecision and AER of our proposed method ishigher than those of IBM-4.
But recall of ourproposed method is lower than that of IBM-4.IBM-4 has strong points in handling cross-alignment and null alignment while our modelhas strong points in handling n:1 alignment.
Thedifference between our model and IBM-4 causesthe performance gap.
Because most alignmenttype found in the gold standard is 1:1 alignmentand 1:n alignment rather than cross-alignment,null alignment, and n:1 alignment as describedin Table 3, the performance gap between ourmethod and IBM-4 is not so big.
IBM-2 showsthe worst performance because it can not dealwith 1:n alignment.
In other words, IBM-2 doesnot consider fertility as its parameter for estimat-ing the translation probability.
Note that 1:nalignment in the gold standard is about18%~22% (see Table 3).Domain IBM-2 IBM-4 ProposedBiology 25.0% 7.4% 6.5%Physics 30.0% 9.6% 5.2%Chemistry 28.7% 7.6% 6.5%Table 2.
Experimental ResultsType Biology  Physics Chem.Null alignment 0.6% 0.2% 0.2%Cross alignment 2.1% 0.2% 4.4%n:1 alignment 2.1% 1.6% 1.2%1:n alignment 16.5% 21.4% 19.0%1:1 alignment 78.7% 76.7% 75.3%Table 3.
Alignment types found in the goldstandardWhen we analyze errors caused by ourmethod, errors are mainly caused by n:1 align-ment and cross-alignment.
In order to producerelevant alignment results for n:1 alignment, weneed information indicating that more than one5 While (Och et al, 2003) differentiates sure and possiblehand-annotated alignment, our gold-standard comes in onlyone variety.71English term constituents are used as a concep-tual unit.
Due to lack of the information, ourmodel has limitation on recovering errors causedby n:1 alignment.
It is necessary to use domainspecific corpus as a way of relaxing the problem.Cross alignment, which our model does not al-low due to constrain 1, makes errors.
Due to thecross alignment, the performance of our methodin chemistry and biology is lower than that inphysics, where there are few cross alignments inthe gold standard.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we have described an alignmentalgorithm between English and Korean termconstituents.
Our alignment algorithm can han-dle cross alignment, n:1 alignment and 1:nalignment between term constituents.
Ourmethod shows about 94.7% precision, 93.2%recall and 6.1% alignment error rate.
However,there are scopes to improve performance stillfurther.
Constraints should be relaxed in order togeneralize our model and overcome errorscaused by them.Our method can be applied to handle techni-cal terms in three aspects.
First, alignment re-sults produced by our alignment algorithm helpa machine translation system to consistentlytranslate new English technical terms to Koreanterms by considering domain of the technicalterms.
Second, alignment results between termconstituents can be used for constructing termformation patterns or word formation patterns.Because relations between conceptual units canbe extracted from the alignment results, we canconstruct concept-level term formation patternsusing them.
Third, the alignment results can beused as a resource for recognizing term varia-tions.
Because alignment relations acquired byour alignment model offer information abouthomonym, synonym and domain dependency,term variations related to certain term constitu-ent can be recognized using them.AcknowledgementThis work was supported by the Korea Ministryof Science and Technology, the Korea Ministryof Commerce, Industry and Energy, and the Ko-rea Science and Engineering Foundation(KOSEF).ReferencesBrown P.F., V.S.A.
Della Petra, V.J.
Della Pietra andR.L.
Mercer, ?The mathematics of statistical ma-chine translation: parameter estimation?, Compu-tational Linguistics, Vol.
19 No 2, (1993) 263?311Chen, S, F., Aligning Sentences in Bilingual CorporaUsing Lexical information, in proceedings of 31stACL, (1993) 9?16Dempster A.P., N.M. Laird, and D.B.
Rubin.
Maxi-mum likelihood from incomplete data via the EMalgorithm.
Journal of Royal Statistical Society,39(1):138, (1977)Gale, W. A.
And Church K.W.
A program for al-ingning sentences in Bilingual Corpora, Computa-tional linguistics, vol 19, no 1, (1993), 75?102Germann, U. M.Jahr, Knight, K., Marcu, D. AndYamada, K. Fast Decoding and Optimal Decodingfor Machine translation, in proceedings of 39thACL, (2001) 228?235Haruno M., and Yamazaki, T. High-performanceBilingual Text alignment using Statistical and Dic-tionary information, in proceedings of 34th ACL,(1996) 131?138Kay, M. and Roscheisen, M. Text-Translation Align-ment, Computational Linguistics, Vol 19, No 1,(1993) 121?142L?pez de Teruel P. E., Jos?
M. Garc?a and Manuel E.Acacio.
The Parallel EM Algorithm and its Appli-cations in Computer Vision.
Parallel and Distrib-uted Processing Techniques and Applications,(1999).Manning, C.D.
and H. Schutze, Foundations of statis-tical natural language processing, MIT Press(1999)Ministry of Culture and Tourism, "Forming the foun-dation of Terminology Standardization?,http://www.korterm.or.kr/, (2002)Och, Franz Josef and Hermann Ney.
A SystematicComparison of Various Statistical AlignmentModels, Computational Linguistics, Vol 29 (1),(2003), 19?51Sager, J.C. ?Section 1.2.1 Term formation?, in Hand-book of terminology management Vol.1, JohnBenjamins publishing company, (1997)Shin Jung Ho and Key-Sun Choi (1995), Aligning aparallel Korean-English corpus at word and phraselevel, Proceedings of the 3rd Natural LanguageProcessing Pacific Rim Symposium (NLPRS'95),(1995)  223?22772
