An Integrated Framework for Archiving, Processing and DevelopingLearning Materials for an Endangered Aboriginal Language in Tai-wanMeng-Chien YangDepartment of Computer andCommunication EngineeringProvidence University, Taiwanmcyang2@pu.edu.twD.
Victoria RauDepartment of English Language, Lit-erature and LinguisticsProvidence University, Taiwandhrau@pu.edu.twAbstractPreservation of an endangered language is animportant and difficult task.
The preservationproject should include documentation, archiv-ing and development of shared resources for theendangered language.
In addition, the projectwill consider how to revitalize this endangeredlanguage among the younger generation.
In thispaper, we propose an integrated framework thatwill connect the three different tasks: languagearchiving, language processing and creatinglearning materials.
We are using this frameworkto document one Taiwanese aboriginal lan-guage: Yami.
The proposed framework shouldbe an effective tool for documenting other en-dangered languages in Asia.1 IntroductionThe impact of globalization and urbanizationhas caused many aboriginal languages on ourplanet to go extinct.
This language death processnot only reduces the number of native languagesbut also wipes out the cultural heritage con-nected with those languages (Xu 2001).
There-fore, preservation and archiving of theseendangered native languages is vital and critical.Many projects around the world are seeking topreserve these endangered native languages (e.g.,Lublinskaya 2002; Psutka 2002).The attempt to preserve an endangered lan-guage includes several steps: documenting andrecording the oral and written literature, compil-ing the grammar and a dictionary of the lan-guage, and annotating the documentation relatedto this language.
It is also important to find aneffective approach to teach the endangered lan-guage to the ethnic group using the language,particularly to members of the younger genera-tion, who often live in urban areas without anyconnection to their place of origin.According to a study by Whaley (2003), thefactors required to help an endangered languagesurvive include:1. a well developed preservation andmaintenance program for the language;2. use of information technology in thepreserving project;3. a new world order, especially economicand political shifts;4. an environment for learning and explor-ing the language.Based on the above discussion, it is impor-tant that an endangered language preservationand documentation project should be compre-hensive and carefully planned.
This projectneeds to take advantage of state-of-the-art tech-nologies and establish an environment for learn-ing.In order to successfully document and pre-serve a Batanic language, Yami, we propose anapproach of archiving and development of anenvironment that fosters learning of the lan-guage.
The Yami language, used by the Yamitribe on Orchid Island, is an oral language inwhich most of the content is closely connectedto the traditional life style and cultural heritage.However, many Yami people have moved tocities in Taiwan and have lost their connectionto the Yami society on Orchid Island.
The death32of the older generation has hastened the declineof the Yami language.
According to Rau?s(1995) sociolinguistic survey on Orchid Island,Iraralay is the only community of the six vil-lages on the island where children still use someYami for daily interaction.
Although Yami hasbeen offered as an elective in elementary schoolsince 1998, Yami is gradually being replaced byMandarin Chinese.
Among the junior highschool students on the island, 60% either be-lieved Yami would die eventually or were un-certain about the fate of the language.The approach proposes a comprehensive se-ries of steps to collect and record the Yami lan-guage.
In addition, the work includesdevelopment of a learning method that will beeffective with Yami youngsters who live in ur-ban areas.
Although the complete work ofdocumentation will take many years, the Yamilanguage is in danger of being lost due to rapidurbanization.
Therefore, we have developed astrategy to make language items available inlearning materials as soon as they have beencollected, taking advantage of information tech-nology and computer networking.
Using thesetechnologies we have developed an integratedplatform for documenting, processing and learn-ing that will help both Yami youngsters andother students taking Yami as a second language.The integrated platform is built on a mainweb server with several supporting servers.
Themain server is designed as the server for re-source management and the supporting serversare designed for different purposes.
The purposeof this design is to effectively edit the oral re-cording of the Yami language and to make thelanguage learning materials.
The proposed plat-form includes three subsystems:1. a subsystem to manage and edit thedigital archiving of the Yami language,2.
a subsystem to handle the workflow ofcollecting oral recordings of the Yamilanguage,3.
a subsystem to create and manage theYami language learning materials.Each subsystem is installed on one or two serv-ers.
All these subsystems will be described indetail in Section 3.Although most ideas in the proposed inte-grated framework has been used for other lan-guage documentation and learning, the proposedframework is an initiative for archiving andteaching an endangered language.
The attemptof our study is not only to use technologies topreserve an endangered language but also todevelop a well-accepted platform for this lan-guage.
Hence, people can learn and appreciatethis language and its cultural heritage.The proposed framework is used in an ongo-ing grant-supported project for archiving anddocumenting the Yami language (ELDP,MDP0114).
The collection of Yami languagematerials began in 1994.
Currently, we are im-plementing the computer systems and databasein this integrated framework.
In the later section,we will report on our current progress.The remainder of this paper is organized asfollows.
Section 2 is a description of the processof collecting the material for archiving.
Section3 shows the proposed integrated framework anda brief description of related methodologies.Section 4 illustrates the current development ofthe system, followed by conclusion and futuredirections in Section 5.2 Materials to be DocumentedIn addition to digitally archiving the 20 nar-ratives, reference grammar, trilingual dictionarywith 2000 entries (Rau & Dong, 2005), and mul-timedia pedagogical materials (Rau et al 2005),we also collaborated with local consultants todocument daily conversations, business transac-tions, festivals, and ceremonies.The topics were selected based on consulta-tion of previous research on Yami ethnography,and are designed to meet the standards stipulatedby the R.O.C.
Ministry of Education for devel-oping Austronesian teaching materials in Tai-wan.
The topics are closely related to thoseselected for inclusion in four volumes of Yamimultimedia teaching materials the second authoris currently developing.3 Integrated FrameworkIn this section, we will describe our designand the theoretical framework behind the design.The project is divided into four major steps:33(1) field recording: recording the oralsound data of the Yami language,(2) archiving: editing the sound data andannotating the data using the metadata,(3) multimedia transformation: analyzingthe original data and creating a multi-media Yami dictionary and text descrip-tion,(4) e-Learning: creating online Yami lan-guage learning materials.The framework is designed to meet two re-quirements of our Yami language archiving pro-ject:(1) to build a complete and original archiv-ing database for Yami language includ-ing speech of various genres, grammar,vocabulary and cultural artifacts.
(2) to create learning materials in an easy-to-learn environment via internet andcomputer.3.1 Field RecordingFirst of all, the existing records collected bythe research team since 1994 will be organizedand digitalized, along with new field recordings.In our project, we will develop an oral speecharchiving database to store these oral recordings.Each recording will be scanned to find the basicsound characteristics and transferred to digitaldata.
The sound characteristics are used forcomparing and tracking these recordings.
Fol-lowing a study by Chen (1996) about tone andstress patterns in Asian languages, we will ex-tract information on intonation and stress fromthe field recording.
This information will laterbe used to create the learning material.
The fieldrecordings are arranged by segments, rangingfrom words in isolation to ?idea units?
or ?toneunits?
(Chafe 1979) in continuous speech.Once a segment of the field recording hasbeen completed, the original data is stored in thecomputer and two different types of digital dataare created.
These include MP3 data that will beused for creating the learning materials and theannotated digital data in which the recordingsare separated into phrases with Chinese andEnglish translations.
All these data are stored ina relational database with the recording dateused as the searching key.The processing of field recordings is consid-ered to be the preparation and preprocessingstage of the Yami language documentation pro-ject.
The voice database is used to create thearchived data and learning materials.3.2 ArchivingThe archiving step begins with editing thevoice database and construction of the OLACmetadata for each entity in the voice database.The original sound tracks in the field recordingdatabase are edited to improve clarity of thesound by using sampling techniques (Kientzle1998).
The edited sounds are stored as the newsound records in the voice database.The metadata used for describing Yami lan-guage is the OLAC metadata, an extended Dub-lin Core set with basic elements of languageresources.
To meet the requirement of the lin-guistic community, certain new extension ele-ments are put in the OLAC set following DCMIguidelines (DCMI 2000).
To build a properOLAC metadata for the Yami language, wehave chosen to adopt the OLAC set proposed byBird and Simons (Bird et al 2001, Bird &Simons 2003) for this project.
Because Yami isprimarily an oral language, we use a subset ofthis OLAC set.
The OLAC elements used in thisproject are: {Title, Creator, Subject, Subjectlanguage, Description, Publisher, Contributor,Date, Type, Format, Identifier, Source, Lan-guage, Relation, Rights}.
The reason for select-ing these elements is to create a commondescription of the Yami language.
Furthermore,after reviewing the field study materials, we canshow that the above OLAC subset can meet thebasic requirement for describing the Yami lan-guage.
The rules to apply these OLAC elementsto each recording of  the Yami language are:(1) Each OLAC element can be optional andrepeatable;(2) Each OLAC element can describe onlyone single identification or one singlerange;(3) Data format of each OLAC element fol-lows the rules in DCMI (DCMI 2002).Each OLAC element used in describing theYami language is given following the OLACand ELDP guidelines.
Suppose there is a Yamilanguage sound track to be described, the OLAC34element set of this sound track is shown as fol-lows:Title: the Chinese name of the Yami languagesound track.
A second Title element isused to store English translation.Creator: the Yami speaker who uttered thisspeech.
A second Creator element is usedto store his/her Chinese name.Subject: the keyword used to classify the contentof the Yami language sound track.
Thekeywords and controlled vocabularies arebeing collected.Subject language: the Chinese linguistic descrip-tion of the Yami language.
A second ele-ment is the corresponding Englishdescription.Description: the usage and the multimedia datarelated to this Yami language sound track.Some multimedia data are collected usingthe Multimedia Transformation step de-scribed in Section 3.3.Publisher: the research teams and the sponsoringinstitutions.Contributor: the research teams and the personwho recorded this sound track.Date: the date this sound track was recorded andthe date the archiving process was com-pleted.Type: the genre of the content of the Yami lan-guage sound track.
We are transferringmany Yami language linguistic and an-thropological terms into DC-type.
TheseDC-type terms will be used as the Typeelement.Format: the digital data type of the Yami lan-guage sound track.Identifier: the ELDP identifier for this Yamilanguage sound track.
We will followELDP guidelines to create identifiers forthe archived sound track.Source: the location of the archiving databaseand the location for storing the field studydraft.Language: English and Chinese (traditional andsimplified characters)Relation: the related Yami language soundtracks.Rights: copyright information of this soundtrack.In the archiving step we will also considerhow to build a database of the controlled vo-cabularies for the Yami language.
We will usethree sources for the controlled vocabulary inthis project: lexicon, primary text and languagedescription.The table of OLAC metadata is created intwo forms, one XML text table format and onerelational table format.
The voice database fromthe first step is edited and connected to themetadata table.Another goal of this step is to build a Yamilanguage online phrase dictionary.
The OLACmetadata are used for parsing and editing withthe voice database to create a Yami languageonline phrase dictionary.
We will develop anauto dictionary-generating program that canprocess the OLAC metadata and find suitableterms.
In addition, we use the grammar andcourse materials of Yami language multimediacourseware created by Rau et al (2005) to buildour on-line multimedia Yami language phrasedictionary.When the metadata of a set of the Yami lan-guage sound tracks are completed, the resultswill be published online on our web site.
Thisyear, our focus is aligning the OLAC metadataof the Yami language sound tracks with the mul-timedia courseware by Rau et al (2005).
Later,we will try to use ontology to determine rulesfor creating metadata automatically and to de-velop an automatic metadata generator for theYami language.3.3 Multimedia TransformationThe Yami language is basically a spokenlanguage, although an orthography is being de-veloped and standardized as texts are collected.To preserve the Yami language, we will use animage database to annotate the language.
In ad-dition, each word in Yami is annotated with itsorthography stored in a sound database.
Thepurpose of this transformation is to build an im-age for each Yami word.
Therefore, the meaningof the word can be related directly to a picture.The reasons why we have chosen to use this ap-proach to annotate the Yami language are asfollows:35(1) The Yami language, like all other lan-guages, has culture-specific words andexpressions, of which pictures are directrepresentations.
(2) The annotated pictures help learners un-derstand the traditional lifestyle on Or-chid Island and give them more incentiveto learn the language.
(3) The pictures include many Yami culturalartifacts.
The annotated pictures can thuspreserve descriptions of their culturalheritage.The steps for multimedia transformation ofthe Yami language are as follows:(1) Collect suitable images for building theannotated image database.
We will con-sult many other research teams to borrowYami images and video recordings.
(2) Design criteria to choose the images.
Wewill select appropriate images and de-velop possible connections betweenYami expressions and a set of pictures.
(3) Build a special annotated database anduse the Yami language to annotate theimage data.
The annotated algorithms arebased on the fuzzy logic style (Kecman2001) or the Coherent Language model(Jin 2004).
(4) Build a corresponding mapping relationbetween a Yami expression and a set ofannotated images.
The mapping relationsare a set of contexts and symbolic tablessimilar to a set of induction rules.
(5) Build a sound connection between eachYami word and its phonetic symbols byusing the fuzzy logic learning algorithm.The results of multimedia transformationcan be used as a foundation for creating onlinelearning material.
The results are stored in a re-lational multimedia database as well as the XMLpages.3.4 e-LearningThe final task of our project is to find an effec-tive way to teach the Yami language to urbanYami youngsters and other learners of Yami as asecond language.
To build an open and self-learning environment, the computer-based learn-ing or the webs for learning is our choice.
Therehave been various discussions about how to useinformation technologies and the web to learn adifferent language.
Gerbault (2002) showed thatit is viable to set up a proper multimedia envi-ronment for leaning a language without ateacher?s participation.
Fujii et al (2000) dem-onstrated a project using the Internet as a toolfor the teacher to post course materials and cre-ate an online learning environment.
In addition,Lamb (2005) suggested rethinking pedagogicalmodels for e-learning from the what, the whyand the how.
e-Learning consists of self-access,reference sources, discussion forum, and virtuallearning classrooms.
The main motives for in-troducing e-learning include improving studentmultimedia learning experience, enhancinglearner autonomy and widening participation.Finally, e-learning can be controlled primarilyby tutors or students, depending on objectives,contents, learning tasks, length/time/place ofstudy, or choice of assessment activities.As mentioned in a study by Leung (2003),the computer-based learning environment isvery important as a way to help students learneffectively.
In order to provide an effectivelearning environment, Leung (2003) suggestedthat four contextual issues should be consideredin design and implementation of computer-basedlearning.
These issues are topic selection, au-thenticity, complexity, and multiple perspectives.The design of the web-based computer-assistedlearning program for the Yami language takesthese four issues into consideration.
We outlineour design as follows.The learning environment in this project is avirtual classroom without teacher participation.Students can select the Yami language learningmaterials prepared by the second author.
If astudent asks for clues or explanation of a spe-cific Yami word or expression, a suitable imageor video clip is retrieved from the multimediadatabase.
If a student is not familiar with a spe-cific Yami sound, a similar phonetic symbol isprovided to him/her.
The learning materials arearranged in three different settings, scenario set-ting, easy-to-difficult condition setting andlearner?s choice setting.
The scenario settinguses related scenes in Yami society such as theflying fish festival as a main theme of the learn-ing materials.
The easy-to-difficult condition36setting allows the learner to select different lev-els of the Yami language materials.
The levelsare based on word frequencies and complexityof grammar.
The learner can arrange his/herlearning materials in the learner?s chosen setting.The learning system will give detailed guide-lines to explain how to choose the learning ma-terials.
If a student wants to learn the Yamilanguage, he/she can choose different learningmaterials based on his/her interest.
The learningmaterials are designed as theme units with exer-cises and rubrics for self-assessment.
The designof these Yami language exercises is based on astudy about the reactions of students to using aweb-based system for learning Chinese in Tai-wan (Yang, 2001).We use the annotated image database as atool to help the learners understand the meaningof Yami words or expressions.
To make the pic-torial explanation more understandable, an ani-mation clip combined with several images iscreated to explain them.A study by Aist (2002) showed that differentdesigns of the oral-reading interactions can helpstudents understand the language more.
Thelearning system will provide several readingmodes for students to listen and practice.
Thesemodes include: to read the entire sentence with-out interruption, to read the entire sentence byisolating each word, to read a word slowly syl-lable-by-syllable, recue the whole sentence andrecue the selected words.The interface of the proposed learning envi-ronment is built on a web server with a dynamicweb page.
To establish a more efficient learningenvironment, all the learning materials are ed-ited into reusable learning objects.
The user in-terface is developed as an adaptive stylefollowing Mich et al?s (2004) PARLING sys-tem.The proposed framework is illustrated inFigure 1.Figure 1: The integrated framework for theYami Language preservation project4 Implementation of the proposedFrameworkWe implement the proposed framework as ahybrid system with many different proc-esses including:(1) Data collection and formulation: to col-lect the original Yami language data andto build the metadata and the table fordigital archiving.
(2) System design and analysis: to designand develop suitable computer systemsand servers to accommodate the pro-posed framework.
(3) Research and construction of proposedframework: to develop each subsystemor database shown in Figure 1, such asthe OLAC metadata database, the anno-tated image database and the Yami lan-guage learning materials.
(4) Assessment and evaluation: to test the ef-fectiveness of the proposed learning ma-37terials and to evaluate whether the pro-ject goals were accomplished.Currently, we are collecting the Yami lan-guage materials and building the systemserver for the proposed framework.
We willuse a SQL server as the main sever to man-age the workflow and the documentationlogs.
A PHP web server with mySQL serveris used as a server for multimedia transfor-mation.
Another SQL server is used as thearchiving server.
The system diagram of theproposed framework is shown in Figure 2.Figure 2 Diagram for the proposed frame-work5 Conclusion and future studiesThis paper describes an integrated frameworkfor archiving and processing the Yami language.In addition, the framework includes the processfor developing online learning materials for theendangered language.
We use this frameworkfor the Yami language preservation project.
Theproject is continuously developing.
We hopethat this project can serve as a model for otherendangered language preservation projects inAsia.ReferencesAist, G. (2002) Helping Children Learn Vocabularyduring Computer-Assisted Oral Reading, Educa-tional Technology & Society 5(2).Bird, S. Simons, G. Huang, C.-R. (2001) The OpenLanguage Archives Community and Asian Lan-guage Resources, NLPRS 2001, pp.
31-38.Bird, S. & Simons, G. (2003) Extending Dublin CoreMetadata to support Description and Discovery ofLanguage Resources, Computers and Humanities,No.
37, pp.
378-388.Chafe, W. L. (1979) The flow of thought and theflow of language.
In T. Giv?n (ed.
), Syntax andSemantics 12: Discourse and Syntax.
New York:Academic Press, pp.
159-181.Chen, S. & Fu, M. (1996) Computer Assisted Lan-guage Learning in Teacher Education: Training ofTones and Stress Patterns in Asian Languages,IEEE International Conference on MultimediaEngineering Education, pp.
435-443.DCMI (2000), Dublin Core Qualifiers,.
[http://dublinecore.org/documents/2000/07/11/dememsqualifiers/]DCMI (2002), DCMI Elements and Element Re-finements ?
a current list..[http://dublinecore.org/usage/terms/dc/current-elements/]Fujii, S. Iwata, J. hattori, M., Iijima, M. & Mizuno, T.(2000) ?Web-Call?
: a language learning supportsystem using internet, Seventh International Con-ference on Parallel and Distributed systems, pp.326-331.Gerbault, J.
(2002) Information technology and for-eign language learning: what happens when noteacher is around?, International Conference onComputers in Education, pp.
394-398.Jin, R. Chai, J. and Si, L. (2004) Effective AutomaticImage Annotation via a coherent language modeland active learning, MM 2004, pp.
892-899.Kecman, V. (2001) Learning and soft computing:support vector machines, neural networks, andfuzzy logic model, MIT press.Kientzle, T. (1998) A programmer?s Guide to Sound,Addison-Wesley.Lamb, T. (2005) Rethinking predagogical models fore-learning.
Paper presented at AILA 2005, the14th World Congress of Applied Linguistics.
July24-29, Madison, Wisconson.Leung, A.C.K.
(2003), Contextual Issues in the Con-struction of Computer-Based Learning Programs,J.
Computer Assisted Learning, Vol.
19, 2003, pp.501-516.Lublinskaya, M. & Sherstinova, T. (2002) AudioCollections of Endangered Arctic Languages inthe Russian Federation, TSD 2002, LNAI 2448,pp.
347-353.Mich, O. Betta, E. & Giuliani, D. PARLING: e-Literature for Supporting Children Learning Eng-lish as a Second Language, IUI 2004, pp.
283-285.38Psutka, J., et al (2002) Automatic Transcription ofCzech Language Oral History in the MALACHproject: Resources and Initial Experiments, TSD2002, LNAI 2448, pp.
253-260.Rau, D. V., Dong, M.-N., Lin, M-Y, Chang, H.-H., &Hsu, Y-C, (2005) Multimedia Materials of YamiLanguage, Technical Report, Department of  Eng-lish Language, Literature and Linguistics, Provi-dence University.Rau, D. V. & Dong, M.-N. (2005).
Yami Texts withReference Grammar and Vocabulary, Languageand Linguistics.
A-10.Rau, D. V. (1995) Yami Vitality.
NSC report(NSC84-2411-H-126-001), presented at the Sym-posium on Language Use and Ethnic Identity, In-stitute of Ethnology, Academia Sinica (1995/5/16).Whaley, L. (2003) The future of native languages,FUTURES 35, pp.
961-973.Xu, S. X.
(2001) Study on Language Endangerment.Beijing: Central Ethnic University.Yang, S. C. (2001) Integrating computer-mediatedtools into the language curriculum, J. ComputerAssisted Learning, Vol.
17, 2001, pp.
85-93.39
