Harvesting the Bitexts of the Laws of Hong Kong From the WebChunyu Kit Xiaoyue Liu KingKui Sin Jonathan J. WebsterDepartment of Chinese, Translation and LinguisticsCity University of Hong Kong, Tat Chee Ave., Kowloon, Hong Kong{ctckit, xyliu0, ctsinkk, ctjjw}@cityu.edu.hkAbstractIn this paper we present our recent workon harvesting English-Chinese bitextsof the laws of Hong Kong from theWeb and aligning them to the subpara-graph level via utilizing the number-ing system in the legal text hierarchy.Basic methodology and practical tech-niques are reported in detail.
The re-sultant bilingual corpus, 10.4M Englishwords and 18.3M Chinese characters,is an authoritative and comprehensivetext collection covering the specific andspecial domain of HK laws.
It is par-ticularly valuable to empirical MT re-search.
This piece of work has also laida foundation for exploring and harvest-ing English-Chinese bitexts in a largervolume from the Web.1 IntroductionBitexts, also referred to as parallel texts or bilin-gual corpora, collections of bilingual text pairsaligned at various levels of granularity, have beenplaying a critical role in the current developmentof machine translation technology.
It is suchlarge data sets that give rise to the plausibilityof empirical approaches to machine translation,most of which involve the application of a varietyof machine learning techniques to infer varioustypes of translation knowledge from bitext datato facilitate automatic translation and enhancetranslation quality.
Large volumes of trainingdata of this kind are indispensable for construct-ing statistical translation models (Brown et al,1993; Melamed, 2000), acquiring bilingual lex-icon (Gale and Church, 1991; Melamed, 1997),and building example-based machine translation(EBMT) systems (Nagao, 1984; Carl and Way,2003; Way and Gough, 2003).
They also providea basis for inferring lexical connection betweenvocabularies in cross-languages information re-trieval (Davis and Dunning, 1995).Existing parallel corpora have illustrated theirparticular value in empirical NLP research, e.g.,Canadian Hansard Corpus (Gale and Church,1991b), HK Hansard (Wu, 1994), INTERSECT(Salkie, 1995), ENPC (Ebeling, 1998), the Bibleparallel corpus (Resnik et al, 1999) and manyothers.
The Web is being explored not only as asuper corpus for NLP and linguistic research (Kil-garriff and Grefenstette, 2003) but also, more im-portantly to MT research, as a treasure for miningbitexts of various language pairs (Resnik, 1999;Chen and Nie, 2000; Nie and Cai, 2001; Nieand Chen, 2002; Resnik and Smith, 2003; Wayand Gough, 2003).
The Web has been the play-ground for many NLPers.
More and more Websites are found to have cloned their Web pages inseveral languages, aiming at conveying informa-tion to audience in different languages.
This givesrise to a huge volume of wonderful bilingual ormulti-lingual resources freely available from theWeb for research.
What we need to do is to har-vest the right resources for the right applications.In this paper we present our recent work onharvesting English-Chinese parallel texts of thelaws of Hong Kong from the Web and construct-71ing a subparagraph-aligned bilingual corpus ofabout 20 million words.
The bilingual texts of thelaws is introduced in Section 2, with an emphasison HK?s legislation text hierarchy and its num-bering system that can be utilized for text align-ment to subparagraph level.
Section 3 presentsbasic methodology and technical details for har-vesting and aligning bilingual Web page pairs, ex-tracting content texts from the pages, and align-ing text structures in terms of the text hierarchyvia utilizing consistent intrinsic features in theWeb pages and content texts.
Section 4 presentsXML schema for encoding the alignment resultsand illustrates the display mode for browsing thealigned bilingual corpus.
Section 5 concludesthe paper, highlighting the value of the corpus interm of its volume, translation quality, specificityand comprehensiveness, and alignment granular-ity.
Our future work to explore the Web for har-vesting more quantities of parallel bitexts is alsobriefly outlined.2 Bilingual Texts of the Laws of HKThe laws of Hong Kong (HK) before 1987 wereexclusively enacted in English.
They were trans-lated into Chinese in the run-up to the handoverin 1997.
Since then all HK laws have been en-acted in both English and Chinese, both versionsbeing equally authentic.
This gives rise to a valu-able set of bitexts in large quantity and high qual-ity that can be utilized to facilitate empirical MTresearch.2.1 BLIS CorpusThe bilingual texts of the laws of Hong Konghave been made available to the public in re-cent years by the Justice Department of the HK-SAR through the bilingual laws information sys-tem (BLIS).
All these texts are freely accessiblefrom http://www.justice.gov.hk/.BLIS provides the most comprehensive docu-mentation of HK legislation.
It contains all statutelaws of Hong Kong currently in operation, includ-ing all ordinances and subsidiary legislation ofHK (and some of their past versions dating backto 60 June 1997), the Basic Law and the Sino-British Joint Declaration, the constitution of PRCand national laws that apply in HK, and other rel-evant instruments.
The entire bilingual corpus ofFigure 1: Illustration of BLIS hierarchyBLIS legal texts contains approximately 10 mil-lion English words and 18 million Chinese char-acters.
Lexical resources of this kind are particu-larly useful in bilingual legal terminology studiesand text alignment work.2.2 Text HierarchyBLIS organizes the legal texts in terms of thehierarchy of the Loose-Leaf Edition of the Lawsof Hong Kong.
At the top level, the ordinancesare arranged by chapters, each of which is identi-fied by an assigned number and a short title, e.g.,Chapter 5 OFFICIAL LANGUAGES ORDINANCE /?5?
??????.
The assigned number for asubsidiary legislation chapter consists of a chap-ter number and a following uppercase letter, e.g.,CAP 5C HIGH COURT CIVIL PROCEDURE (USEOF LANGUAGE) RULES / ?5C?
????????(????)?
?.The content of an ordinance, exclusive of itslong title, is divided and identified according to avery rigid numbering system which encodes thehierarchy of the texts of the laws.
Both the Chi-nese and English versions of an ordinance fol-low exactly the same hierarchical structures suchas chapters (?
), parts (?
), sections (?
), sub-sections (?
), paragraphs (?)
and subparagraphs(?).
This allows us to align the bitexts along72Figure 2: BLIS texts in pairthis hierarchical structure, once they are down-loaded from the BLIS official site.
To our knowl-edge, a well-aligned bilingual corpus of this sizecovering a special domain so comprehensively isseldom readily available for the Chinese-Englishlanguage pair.Excerpts from the BLIS corpus are illustratedin Figure 1 and 2, one illustrating its hierarchy andthe other a pair of BLIS bitexts.
From the excerptswe can see that not everything has an exact matchbetween a pair of BLIS Web pages.
For example,the Chinese side has a gazette number ?25 of 1998s.
2?
and a piece of ?remarks?
at the beginning ofcontent text, whereas its English counterpart hasnone of them.3 Harvesting Bitexts from the WebBasically two phases are involved in construct-ing the bilingual corpus of the laws of HK.
Thefirst phase is to harvest the monolingual texts ofHK laws from the BLIS site and align them intopairs.
It involves the following steps: (1) down-loading Web pages one by one with the aid of aWeb crawler, (2) extracting the texts from themby filtering out the HTML markup, and (3) align-ing the extracted monolingual texts into bilingualFigure 3: BLIS web pages connected as two dou-ble linked listspairs.
The second phase is to align finer-grainedtext structures within each text pair.3.1 Downloading BLIS Web PagesA BLIS Web page does not necessarily corre-spond to any particular text structure such as achapter, a part, a section, a subsection, or a para-graph in the BLIS hierarchy.
A chapter, espe-cially a short one, may be organized into a fewsections in a Web page or in several contiguouspages.
Some sections, e.g., the long ones, are di-vided into several pages.
In general, BLIS doesnot maintain any reliable match between its Webpages and any particular text hierarchical struc-tures.Fortunately, in most cases a BLIS page alwayshas a counterpart in the other language.
There isa ?switch language?
button on each page to linkto the counterpart page.
Such linkage allows usto download the Web pages in pairs and, conse-quently, harvest a list of page-to-page aligned bi-texts.In addition to the pair link, each BLIS page alsocarries links for the ?next?
and the ?previous sec-tion of enactment?.
These two kinds of linkageturn the pages into two double linked lists, eachin a language, as illustrated in Figure 3, with eachpage as a node.
Nodes in pairs are also doublelinked between the two lists.However, the pairwise linkage is not reliablein the BLIS site, because there are missing Webpages in one of the two languages in question(see Table 3 below for more details).
In order todownload all bitexts of legislation from the site,we need to go through one linked list and down-load each page and its counterpart, if there is one,in the other language.
Such scanning gives a listof text pairs, where some pages may have a null73Total time Downloaded filesEnglish 17 hours 50,638 (429MB)Chinese 18 hours 50,510 (460MB)Table 1: File downloadingFile nameBLIS HTML page title Chinese EnglishCap 5A ... 5A c.txt 5A e.txtCap 5A s 1 ... 5A-1 c.txt 5A-1 e.txtCap 5A s 2 ... 5A-2 c.txt 5A-2 e.txtCap 5A s 3 ... 5A-3 c.txt 5A-3 e.txtTable 2: Naming downloaded files in terms ofBLIS numberingcounterpart.
An alternative strategy is to down-load each list separately, and then match the pagesinto pairs sequentially with the aid of numberinginformation in the header of each page ?
see 3.2below.
These two strategies verify one another,making sure that all pages are downloaded andput in the right pairs.The downloading is carried out by a Webcrawler implemented in Java.
In order to accom-plish the above strategies, it also has to handle anumber of technical issues.?
It sleeps for a while (e.g., 10 seconds) whenit finishes downloading a certain number ofpages (e.g., 50 pages), because the BLIS siterefuses continuous access from one site for atoo long time.?
When an error occurs, it remembers the cur-rent URL.
Then it re-starts from where itstops.The data about the file downloading from BLISsite is given in Table 1.
One can conceive thatif the time intervals for sleep and downloadingcould be automatically tuned by the crawler tomaximize the downloading efficiency, it wouldget the job done significantly more quickly.
Ouroption for 10 seconds sleep between every 50 filesis based on error records of a number of test runs.3.2 Aligning Web PagesEvery BLIS Web page is identified by a subti-tle that carries numbering information about thepage, as illustrated in Figure 1.
Such a subtitleis exactly retained in the page as its HTML title.Files English ChineseAligned 50,506 (62.3MB)a 50,506 (38.5MB)Missing 132 4Total 50,638 50,510Sizeb 10.4M words 18.3M char.saThe size of extracted texts.bExclusive of punctuation marks.Table 3: The number of aligned and missing filesThis feature is utilized to align BLIS pages: alldownloaded files are named in terms of the num-bering information extracted from their HTML ti-tles, as illustrated in Table 2.
Consequently, allfiles are naturally aligned in pairs by their names.Any file names not in a pair indicate the missingcounterparts in the other language.
The statisticsof file alignment are given in Table 3.3.3 Text ExtractionBasically, this task involves two aspects, namely,filtering HTML markup and extracting contenttext.
A straightforward strategy is that we firstclean up HTML tags in each page and then thenon-legal content.
The tags are in brackets, andnon-legal content in a consistent pattern through-out all BLIS pages.
However, a more convenientway to do it is to make use of a reliable featurein the BLIS pages: legal content is placed in be-tween two ?
the only two ?
horizontal bars in eachpage.
Accordingly, we implement a strategy tofirst extract every thing in between the two barsand then clean up remaining HTML tags.
Theoutput from this procedure includes?
a header as a fixed set of items, includingchapter number, title, heading, etc., and?
a piece of content text as a list of numbereditems each in a line.
(See the header and con-tent text in Figure 2.
)The text in a BLIS page is displayed as a sequenceof hierarchically numbered items, such as subsec-tions, paragraphs and subparagraphs.3.4 Text Alignment within Text PairsAfter page (or file) alignment, each page finds itscounterpart in the other language.
After text ex-traction, a page gives a content text consisting ofa list of numbered items, each in a line.
A such74Remarks:Adaptation amendments retroactively made - see26 of 1999 s.3//a(1) All Ordinances shall be enacted and publishedin both official languages.//(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall require anOrdinance to be enacted and published inboth official languages where that Ordinanceamends another Ordinance and-//(a) that other Ordinance was enacted in theEnglish language only; and//(b) no authentic text of that Ordinance has beenpublished in the Chinese language undersection 4B(1).//(3) Nothing in subsection (1) shall require anOrdinance to be enacted and published in bothofficial languages where the Chief Executivein Council- (Amended 26 of 1999 s.3)//aIndicating a text line break.Table 4: Anchors in a sample textitem can be divided into a numbering item and theremaining content text in the line, as illustrated inTable 4.
The Chinese counterpart of this text car-ries similar lines, if no missing line in any page ofthe pair.Unfortunately, missing lines are found in someBLIS pages, as exemplified in Figure 2.
There isno guarantee that matching text lines one by onein sequence would carry out the expected align-ment within a page pair.
However, the numberingitems at the beginning of each line can be utilizedas anchors to facilitate the alignment.
The strat-egy along this line is given as follows.1.
Anchor identification: numbering items atthe beginning of each line are recognizedas anchors, with the beginning and the endof the whole content text as two special an-chors, resulting in a list of anchors for eachpage;2.
Anchor alignment: match the two lists of an-chors sequentially.
If a pair of anchors doesnot match, give up the smaller one (in termsof the BLIS numbering hierarchy) and moveon to the next possible pair, working in ex-actly the same procedure as matching iden-tical anchor pairs between two sorted lists ofanchors.3.
Text line alignment: a pair of matched an-chors give a pair of matched lines; an un-matched anchor indicates a missing line inthe other language.4 XML Markup for the Aligned CorpusXML is applied to encode the text alignmentoutcomes output from the above alignment pro-cedure.
It has been a standard for data repre-sentation and exchange on the Web, and alsoaccepted by the NLP community as a standardfor linguistic data annotation and representation(Ide et al, 2000; Mengel and Lezius, 2000;Kim et al, 2001).
There are a series of yearlyNLPXML workshops for it since 2001.
It pro-vides a platform-independent flexible and sophis-ticated plain text format for data encoding andmanipulation.
It is particularly suitable for hier-archical linguistic data such as the hierarchically-aligned bilingual corpus that we have produced.What?s more, converting data to XML format notonly significantly reduces the complexity of dataexchange among different computer systems butalso enhances data transmission reliability andeases Web browsing.There have been many corpora that are anno-tated with XML, e.g., HCRC Map Task Corpus(Anderson et al, 1991), American National Cor-pus (Ide and Macleod, 2001), the La Republicacorpus (Baroni et al, 2004).
Below we presentthe XML schema for our subparagraph-alignedBLIS bitexts, with sample annotation, and nec-essary Web browsing.4.1 XML SchemaThe current version of the XML schema for thebilingual BLIS corpus, as given in Figure 4, fo-cuses on encoding all text structures in the BLIShierarchy, including all elements in each BLISWeb page.
It is to be extended to cover finer-grained structures such as clauses, phrases andwords, as we proceed to align the BLIS bitextsat these linguistic levels.
For simplicity, we al-low para to subsume all types of text line, bethey a section, subsection, paragraph or subpara-graph.
The annotation of a sample bitext with thisschema is illustrated in Figure 5.
Annotation ofthis kind is carried out by a Java program auto-matically for the entire bitext corpus.4.2 Corpus BrowsingA number of display modes are designed forbrowsing the subparagraph-aligned bitexts, in-cluding bilingual modes and monolingual modes.75Figure 4: XML schema for aligned BLIS bitextsIn a bilingual mode, text line pairs are displayedin sequence.
Switch of language order or fromone mode to another is allowed any time duringbrowsing.
The bilingual display mode is illus-trated in Figure 6.5 ConclusionWe have presented in the above sections our re-cent work on harvesting and aligning the bitextsof the laws of Hong Kong, including basic tech-niques for downloading English-Chinese bilin-gual legal texts from BLIS official site, soundstrategies for aligning the bitexts by utilizing thenumbering system in the legal texts, and neces-sary XML annotation for the alignment results.The value of the outcomes, i.e., the subparagraph-aligned bilingual corpus, can be evaluated interms of the following aspects.Corpus size The entire corpus is of 10.4M En-glish words and 18.3M Chinese characters,several times larger than the well-knownPenn Treebank Corpus in size.Figure 5: Sample bitext in XML encodingTranslation quality All texts of the corpus areprepared by the Law Drafting Division ofthe Department of Justice, Hong Kong Gov-ernment.
Legal texts are known to be moreprecise and less ambiguous than most othertypes of text.Specificity and comprehensiveness The corpuscovers specifically the domain of Hong Konglegislation.
It is the most authoritative andcomplete text collection of the laws of HongKong.Alignment granularity The entire corpus isaligned precisely to the subparagraph level.Most subparagraphs in the legal texts arephrases, fragments of a clause, or clauses; asshown in Table 4.76Figure 6: Illustration of browsing modesA bilingual corpus of this size and quality cov-ering a specific domain so comprehensively isparticularly useful not only in empirical MT re-search but also in computational studies of bilin-gual terminology and legislation.
Our future workwill focus on word alignment for inferring bilin-gual lexical resources and on automatic recogni-tion of legal terminology.Also, our experience in constructing this bilin-gual corpus has laid a foundation for us to con-tinue to harvest more bilingual text materials fromthe Web, e.g., from Hong Kong government?sWeb sites.
We find that almost all Hong Konggovernment web sites, which are in large num-bers, maintain their Web pages consistently par-allel in English and Chinese.
We are not sure ifsuch bitexts in such pages are larger than that inthe BLIS site in volume.
We do know they covera large number of distinct domains.
This is partic-ularly useful for MT.
If we can harvest and alignthe bitexts from such Web pages efficiently viautilizing their intrinsic characteristics of URL cor-respondence and text structure, it would not be adream any more to put an end to the time of hav-ing too few existing translation materials for em-pirical MT studies, at least, for the language pairof Chinese and English.AcknowledgementsThe work described in this paper was supportedby the Research Grants Council of HKSAR,China, through the CERG grants 9040861 and9040482.
We wish to thank our team membersfor their help.ReferencesAnne H. Anderson, Miles Bader, Ellen G. Bard, Eliz-abeth Boyle, Gwyneth Doherty, Simon Garrod,Stephen Isard, Jacqueline Kowtko, Jan McAllis-ter, Jim Miller, Catherine Sotillo, Henry Thompson,and Regina Weinert.
1991.
The HCRC map taskcorpus.
Language and Speech, 34(4):351?366.Marco Baroni, Silvia Bernardini, Federica Comastri,Lorenzo Piccioni, Alessandra Volpi, Guy Aston,and Marco Mazzoleni.
2004.
Introducing the LaRepubblica corpus: A large, annotated, TEI(XML)-compliant corpus of newspaper Italian.
In LREC2004, pp.
1771-1774.Simon P. Botley, Anthony M. McEnery, and AndrewWilson (eds.).
2000.
Multilingual Corpora inTeaching and Research.
Amsterdam: Rodopi.Peter F. Brown, Stephen A. Della Pietra, Vincent J.Della Pietra, and Robert L. Mercer.
1993.
Themathematics of statistical machine translation: Pa-rameter estimation.
Computational Linguistics,19(2):263?311.Michael Carl and Andy Way (eds.).
2003.
RecentAdvances in Example-based Machine Translation.Dordrecht: Kluwer.Jiang Chen and Jian Y. Nie.
2000.
Parallel Web textmining for cross-language information retrieval.
InRIAO?2000, pp.
62?77.
Paris.Mark Davis and Ted Dunning.
1995.
A TREC evalu-ation of query translation methods for multi-lingualtext retrieval.
In TREC-4, pp.
483?498.
NIST.Jarle Ebeling.
1998.
Contrastive linguistics, transla-tion, and parallel corpora.
In Meta, 43(4):602?615.William A. Gale and Kenneth W. Church.
1991.
Iden-tifying word correspondences in parallel texts.
InFourth DARPA Workshop on Speech and NaturalLanguage, pp.
152?157.
Asilomar, California.William A. Gale and Kenneth W. Church.
1991b.
AProgram for Aligning Sentences in Bilingual Cor-pora.
In ACL?91, pp.
177?184.
Berkeley.Nancy Ide, Patrice Bonhomme, and Laurent Romary.2000.
XCES: an XML-based encoding standardfor linguistic corpora.
In LREC2000, pp.
825?830.Athens, Greece.77Nancy Ide and Catherine Macleod.
2001.
The Amer-ican National Corpus: A Standardized Resource ofAmerican English.
Proceedings of Corpus Linguis-tics 2001, Lancaster UK.Adam Kilgarriff and Gregory Grefenstette.
2003.
In-troduction to the Special Issue on the Web as Cor-pus.
Computational Linguistics, 29(3):333?347.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Yuka Tateisi, HidekiMima and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2001.
XML-based lin-guistic annotation of corpus.
In NLPXML-1, pp.
47?54.
Tokyo.I.
Dan Melamed.
1997.
Automatic discovery ofnon-compositional compounds in parallel data.
InEMNLP?97, pp.
97?108.
Brown University, Au-gust.I.
Dan Melamed.
2000.
Models of translational equiv-alence among words.
Computational Linguistics,26(2):221?249.Andreas Mengel and Wolfgang Lezius.
2000.
AnXML-based representation format for syntacticallyannotated corpora.
In LREC2000, Volume 1,pp.
121?126.
Athens, Greece.Makoto Nagao.
1984.
A framework of a mechanicaltranslation between Japanese and English by anal-ogy principle.
Artificial and Human Intelligence,pp.
173?180.
Amsterdam: North-Holland.Jian Y. Nie and Jian Cai.
2001.
Filtering noisy paral-lel corpora of Web pages.
In IEEE Symposium onNatural Language Processing and Knowledge En-gineering, pp.
453?458.
Tucson, AZ.Jian Y. Nie and Jiang Chen.
2002.
Exploiting theWeb as Parallel Corpora for Cross-Language Infor-mation Retrieval.
Web Intelligence, pp.
218?239.Philip Resnik, Mari B. Olse, and Mona Diab.
1999.The Bible as a parallel corpus: Annotating the?Book of 2000 Tongues?.
Computers and the Hu-manities, 33(1-2):129?153.Philip Resnik.
1999b.
Mining the Web for BilingualText.
In ACL?99, pp.
527?534.
Maryland.Philip Resnik and Noah A. Smith.
2003.
The Webas a Parallel Corpus.
Computational Linguistics,29(3):349?380.Raphael Salkie.
1995.
INTERSECT: a parallel cor-pus project at Brighton University.
Computers andTexts 9 (May 1995), pp.
4?5.Jean Veronis.
2000.
Parallel Text Processing.
Dor-drecht: Kluwer.Andy Way and Nano Gough.
2003. wEBMT:Developing and validating an example-based ma-chine translation system using the World Wide Web.Computational Linguistics, 29(3):421?457.Dekai Wu.
1994.
Aligning a parallel English-Chinesecorpus statistically with lexical criteria.
In ACL?94,pp.
80?87.
Las Cruces, New Mexico, U.S.A.78
