Linguistically enriched corpora for establishing variation in support verbconstructionsBegon?a Villada Moiro?nAlfa-InformaticaUniversity of GroningenP.O.Box 7169700 AS GroningenM.B.Villada.Moiron@rug.nlAbstractMany NLP tasks that require syntacticanalysis necessitate an accurate de-scription of the lexical components,morpho-syntactic constraints and thesemantic idiosyncracies of fixed ex-pressions.
(Moon, 1998) and (Riehem-ann, 2001) show that many fixed ex-pressions and idioms allow limited vari-ation and modification inside their com-plementation.This paper discusses to what extent acorpus-based method can help us estab-lish the variation and adjectival modi-fication potential of Dutch support verbconstructions.
We also discuss whatproblems the data poses when apply-ing an automated data-driven method tosolve the problem.1 IntroductionWe aim at finding methods that facilitate the de-scription of the linguistic behavior of multiwordexpressions.
Empirical evidence and generaliza-tions about the linguistic properties of multiwordexpressions are required to further a theory offixed expressions (or multiword expressions) aswell as to expand the coverage of NLP lexical re-sources and grammars.This paper describes an attempt to developautomated methods for induction of lexical in-formation from a linguistically enriched corpus.In particular, the paper discusses to what extentcan an automated corpus-based approach be use-ful to establish the variation potential of supportverb constructions.
The experimental work ap-plies to Dutch expressions, however the issue iswidely relevant in the development of lexical re-sources for other languages.1.1 Partially lexicalized expressionsCorpus-based studies showed that certain fixedexpressions and idioms allow limited vari-ation and adjectival modification (Moon, 1998;Riehemann, 2001).1 Riehemann (2001) invest-igated various types of multiword expressions inEnglish and observed that around 25% of idiomoccurrences in a corpus allow some variation.
Byway of example, among the occurrences of theidiom keep tabs on ?(fig.)
watch?, variation affectsverb tense inflection, adjective modifiers (close,better, regular, daily), noun number morpheme(tab(s)) and the location of the on complementphrase that may be separate from the object NP.The above example is by no means an isolatedcase.Variation has an effect not only on the rep-resentation of the syntactic structure but also onthe semantic interpretation of the multiword ex-pression (Sag et al, 2001; Baldwin et al, to ap-pear).
The presence of variation in multiword ex-pressions brings up two scenarios: (a) the loss ofthe peculiar meaning or (b) the modification ofthe original meaning.
Returning to the exampleabove, modifiers of tabs affect the interpretationof the event predicate as a whole.
Thus, keep1From now onwards, we use ?variation?
to refer to mor-phological productivity or alternation of specifi ers or pre-nominal modifi ers.63close tabs on s.o.
means ?watch s.o.
closely?.
Adifferent effect has been reported of some VERBNP idioms in which the adjectival modification af-fects only the complement NP (Nicolas, 1995).For a correct interpretation, such idiomatic ex-pressions require internal semantic structure.These observations suggest that: (i) not allfixed expressions and idioms are frozen wordcombinations given that, parts of the expressionparticipate in syntactic operations; (ii) some lex-emes (in ?fixed?
expressions) are subject to mor-phological processes; and (iii), some fixed ex-pressions still preserve underlying semantic struc-ture.
A description that captures the previousfacts needs to allow variable slots so that the men-tioned variants of the expression are licensed bythe grammar.
In sum, variation is a property thatshould not be neglected while deciding the lexicalrepresentation of multiword expressions in com-putational resources.1.2 Support verb constructionsSupport verb constructions are made up out of alight verb (aka.
support verb) and a complement(e.g.
take into account).
The predicational com-plement may be realized as a noun, an adjective ora prepositional phrase.
The light verb and its com-plement form a complex predicate, in which thecomplement itself supplies most of the semanticload (Butt, 1995).
The verb performs a ?sup-port?
function, i.e.
it serves to ?further structureor modulate the event described by the main pre-dicator?
(Butt, 1995).
Most researchers agree thatthe light verb adds aspect, tense and ?aktionsart?information to the predicate.
Since the supportverb?s meaning differs from the meaning of the(main) verb lexeme, the meaning of the supportverb construction is not fully compositional.
Dueto the similarities with other idiosyncratic expres-sions, support verb constructions (LVCs) belongto the group of lexicalized multiword expressions(Sag et al, 2001).We limit this study to support verb construc-tions for two practical reasons.
First, there seemsto be a group of core light verbs that exist cross-linguistically.
Thus, we can concentrate on asmall set of verbal lexemes.
Second, these lightverbs are based on main verbs still in active usein the language (Butt, 1995).
Concerning Dutch,nine verbs that can function as main but also aslight verbs are brengen ?bring?, doen ?do?, gaan?go?, geven ?give?, hebben ?have?, komen ?come?,krijgen ?get?, maken ?make?, nemen ?take?
andstellen ?state?
(Hollebrandse, 1993).
Establishingthe lexical properties of light verb predicates isnecessary so that parsers do not misanalyze mainverb and light verb uses.Before we describe a corpus-based method toextract evidence of variation from a syntacticallyannotated corpus, we enumerate some researchassumptions and highlight the types of variationand modification object of this study.
Section 3presents the automated method and the evaluationof its merits.
Section 4 describes a proposal of therequired lexical annotation drawn from a workingimplementation.
Our conclusions and further im-provements are summarised in section 6.2 Base form, variation and modificationIn addition to a subject, some prepositional sup-port verb constructions select an additional com-plement.
This may be realized by an accusat-ive, dative or reflexive NP.
Prior to applying thecorpus-based method described in section 3, wepartly ignore the lexical content within the PPcomplement; this is also why we want to estab-lish the variation potential within LVCs.
For theabove two reasons, we assume that the minimumrequired lexemes (i.e.
common to all preposi-tional LVCs) include the argument PP and the sup-port verb and represent each expression as a tripleof the form [PREPOSITION NOUN VERB] (P N V).
(Thus, determiners and modifiers are left out).Some further assumptions must be introduced,namely, what we understand as a base form and asa variant of a support verb construction.
The baseform includes the mentioned triple and may in-clude other lexicalized arguments.
In expressionsthat allow no morphosyntactic variation or modi-fication within the required arguments, tense in-flection is usually possible.
The base form showsthe infinitive verb form.
The base form of the ex-pression voet bij stuk houden ?stick to one?s guns(fig)?
includes the noun voet, the PP bij stuk andthe verb houden; tense inflection is possible (1-b).
(1) a. VOET BIJ STUK HOUDEN64b.
Detheverzekeraarsinsurershieldenkeptechterreallyvoetfootbijbystuk.piece?The insurance companies really sticked totheir guns (fig.
)?Any instance of an LVC whose NP within the PPargument differs from the NOUN lexeme is con-sidered a variant.
The expression uit zijn dakgaan ?go crazy?
has as base form (2-a) with thenoun dak allowing various possessive determiners(2-b).
(2) a. UIT DAK GAANb.
Hetthepubliekaudiencegingwentuitoutzijnhisdak.roof?The audience went crazy.
?We study variation observed within the expres-sion.
We focus on two levels:lexeme level productive inflectional and deriva-tional morphology.phrase level variability in specifiers and modifi-ers.The evidence we seek to extract is the follow-ing: (a) use of diminutive in nominal lexemes; (b)singular and plural alternation in nouns.
Evid-ence of derivational morphology, for example,instances of compounding (another noun or anacronym prefixed to the head noun) or a genit-ive noun modifier; (c) alternation in specifiers.Among the specifiers: zero determiner, definite,indefinite, reciprocals, possessives, demonstrat-ives and quantifiers; (d) NPs that are realized byreflexives.
Reflexives may instantiate either openargument slots or an NP within complement PPs;and (e), among modification, we explore pre-nominal adjectives, past participles, gerunds andother intervening material.In addition, some expressions allow relativeclauses and PP post-nominal modifiers.
Relat-ive clauses are observed less often than PP post-nominal modifiers.
So far, we ignore these twotypes of modification because we extract the evid-ence from an automatically annotated corpus andwith automated means.
It is well-known that dis-ambiguating a syntactic attachment site, e.g.
aPP?attachment site, is one of the hardest problemsfor present-day parsing technology.
Needless tosay, the parser (Alpino) also encounters diffi-culties with this problem.
In this work, we didnot investigate syntactic flexibility at the sentencelevel, that is, processes such as passive, topicaliz-ation, control, clefting, coordination, etc.3 A corpus-based method to infervariationWith access to automatically parsed data, subcat-egorization frames and a standard search querylanguage such as dt search, we can extract allinstances of an LVC that satisfy rather specificmorphosyntactic features and head-complementdependencies; these requirements ?
expressedas dt search queries ?
are applied to XML-encoded syntactic dependency trees.
For a moredetailed description of the corpus-based methodrefer to (Villada Moiro?n, 2005).3.1 Corpus annotationA list of P N V triples was automatically acquiredfrom a syntactically annotated corpus using col-location statistics and linguistic diagnostics (Vil-lada Moiro?n, 2004).
A P N V triple represents anabstraction of a support verb construction (LVC).For each automatically extracted triple, all sen-tences containing the three component lexemesfound in the Twente Nieuws Corpus (TwNC) (Or-delman, 2002) were collected in a subcorpus.
Forexample, for the expression uit zijn dak gaan ?gocrazy?, all sentences that include the prepositionuit ?out?, the noun dak ?roof?
and the verb gaan?go?
or one of its inflectional variants are collec-ted in a subcorpus.The Alpino parser (van der Beek et al, 2002)was used to annotate the subcorpora.
This is awide-coverage parser for Dutch.
Based on a lexic-alist constraint-based grammar framework (Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar) (Pollard andSag, 1994), the Alpino grammar licenses a widevariety of syntactic constructions.All parsed data is stored as XML-dependencytrees.
To illustrate the annotation, the result ofparsing example (2-b) is the dependency structuretree shown in figure 1.Among the information contained in the parsedtrees, we use: (i) categorical information (phrasal65topsmainsunpdetdethet/[0,1]hdnounpubliek/[1,2]hdverbga/[2,3]ldpphdprepuit/[3,4]obj1npdetdetzijn/[4,5]hdnoundak/[5,6]Het publiek ging uit zijn dak .Figure 1: This syntactic dependency tree corres-ponds to the parsed sentence in (2-b).
(np, pp) and lexical (det, noun)), (ii) syntacticinformation (grammatical function or dependencyrelation (subject su, direct object obj1, locativeor directive complement ld, head hd, determinerdet)) and (iii) lexical information (lexemes andword forms).
Dependency nodes are crucial instating daughter?ancestor relations between con-stituents and sub-constituents in an LVC.3.2 Extractiondt search (Bouma and Kloosterman, 2002), atreebank query tool based on XPATH,2 is usedto extract evidence from the annotated subcor-pora.
A dt search query applied on the corres-ponding parsed subcorpus searches for all LVC in-stances.
Two types of queries are needed: narrowsearch and wide search queries.
Narrow searchqueries seek instances of a head-dependent rela-tion between a VERB and a PP sibbling, givennecessary lexical restrictions as input.
Widesearches state that the PP is embedded (some-where) under a clausal node whose head is VERB.Wide searches are needed because the parser maywrongly attach the sought PP to a previous noun.
(Thus, in the annotated data the PP and VERB do2Nevertheless, other XML-based query tools are alsofreely available, e.g.
XSLT or the TIGERSearch kit.not satisfy a head-dependent relation).
Finally,the vaguest search states that a given PP needs tooccur within the same sentence as the verb.
Thistype of search is used in case the other two typesfail to retrieve any evidence.
The query in figure 2seeks NP-internal adjectival modification.dt_search?//node[@cat="np" and./node[@cat="ap"] and./node[@rel="hd" and@root="gedachte"] and../node[@rel="obj1"] and../node[@rel="hd" and @word="op"and(../../../node[@rel="hd" and@root="breng"] or../../node[@rel="hd" and@root="breng"] or../node[@rel="hd" and@root="breng"]) ] ]?breng.opgedachten/*.xmlFigure 2: Query to extract adjectives in the ex-pression iemand op gedachten brengen.Among the constraints expressed in the searchqueries there are: parent-child relations betweennodes, phrase category (@cat), dependency rela-tion (@rel), word base form (@root) or surfaceform (@word).
Queries need to capture deeplyembedded LVCs.
A verbal complement embeddedunder several modal or auxiliary verbs is rathercommon.
To allow uncertainty about the locationof the PP argument node with respect to its headverb, disjunctive constraints are introduced in thequeries (figure 2).3.3 Retrieved corpus evidenceA search query retrieves each LVC realization thatsatisfies the query requirements, as well as theLVC frequency in the subcorpora.Figure 3 gives an excerpt from the observedadjectival modification in iemand op gedachtenbrengen ?give s.o.
the idea?.
Op andere gedachtenbrengen ?change s.o.
?s idea?
is the most frequentrealization with 634 out of a total of 682 occur-rences.
This suggests that the adjective andere isalmost frozen in the expression.The method extracts evidence of morpholo-gical productivity, variation of specifiers and ad-jectival modification, i.e.
positive and negativeevidence.
A description of the positive evidence661 aangename gedachten1 amoureuze gedachten634 andere gedachten1 andere politieke gedachten1 andere, redelijke gedachten1 beeldende gedachten1 bepaalde gedachten2 betere gedachten1 duivelse gedachten1 heel andere gedachten over...1 hitsige gedachten1 hogere gedachten1 kritische gedachten1 meer poe?tische gedachtenFigure 3: Observed adjectival modification in theLVC iemand op gedachten brengen.follows.
We investigated 107 Dutch LVCs: 94 ex-pressions that require a PP argument among whichsome show an NPacc open slot; lexical restrictionsaffect the verb and the PP argument; in addition,13 other expressions are made up of a (partially)lexicalized NP and a PP argument.LVCs fall in one of three groups: (a) totallyfixed, (b) semi-fixed and (c) flexible.
FixedLVCs show no variation and no modification inthe lexicalized NP (if present) and PP constitu-ent(s).
42% of the LVCs studied are fixed.
Semi-fixed LVCs show partially lexicalized constitu-ent(s) (20.5% of the studied LVCs).
Rarely, a sin-gular noun appears in plural.
Variation affects thelexeme?s morphology and/or the specifiers slot.Expressions whose lexicalized argument requiresa reflexive are included into this group.
FlexibleLVCs allow adjectival modification (37.5% of thestudied LVCs).
The data is rather varied.
There areLVCs that show: (i) non-productive morphologyand no specifier variation but they show a limitednumber of adjectives and, (ii) specifier variation(some show compounding) and limited adjectivalvariation.
Border-line cases exhibit no morpho-logical productivity and either definite/possessivedeterminer alternation or no specifier variation;modification involves a unique adjective (e.g.
in(verzekerde) bewaring stellen ?put into custody?
).Negative evidence (noise) typically includessentences where the VERB and the PP occurwithin the same clause but not in the LVC con-text (in its literal use).
Often, the PP is an adjunctor a complement of another verb.
The reason forthis noise can be attributed to the uncertainty inthe search queries or errors in the annotated data.3.4 DiscussionWe argue that the corpus-based method is effi-cient in extracting the linguistic contexts wherevariation and internal modification are found in-side LVCs.
Examining the evidence retrieved bythe corpus-based method, a researcher quicklyforms an impression about which expressions aretotally fixed and which expressions allow somevariation and/or modification.
One also has directaccess to the realizations of the variable slots, theLVC frequency and relevant examples in the cor-pus.
Next, we discuss some limitations posed bythe corpus annotation, extraction procedure andthe nature of the idiosyncratic data.Finding specific constructions in corpora offree word order languages such as Dutch is nottrivial.
Corpus annotation enriched with gram-matical functions and/or dependency relations fa-cilitates the search task.3 Thus, we are able toexplore LVC occurrences in any syntactic struc-ture (main or subordinate sentence, questions,etc.)
without stating linear precedence con-straints.
Furthermore, in most sentences, the an-notation correctly identifies the clause containingthe LVC thus, granting access to all sibblings ofthe head verb.In general, knowledge of the grammar and thelexicon used by the parser is helpful.
In particu-lar, knowing whether some LVCs or idiosyncraticphrases are already annotated in the lexicon aslexicalized phrases helps.
In the event that an LVCwere described in the lexicon, the parser eitheranalyzes the expression as an LVC or as a regularverb phrase.
This uncertainty needs to be takeninto account in the extraction queries.The corpus-based method requires informationabout the subcategorization requirements of theLVCs.
This information was manually enteredfor each expression.
Once we have a list ofPREPOSITION NOUN VERB triples, methods de-scribed in the literature on automatic acquisitionof subcategorization information might be suc-cessful in finding out the remaining LVC syntacticrequirements.
This is an open issue for future re-3Preliminary experiments were done on chunked data.
Acorpus-based method applied on phrasal chunks was imprac-tical.
A lot of noise needed to be manually discarded.67search, but a starting point would be the approachby (Briscoe and Carroll, 1997).The success of the search queries is dependenton parsing accuracy.
Sometimes extracted evid-ence shows the specific PP we seek but misan-alyzed as a dependent of another verb.
Parsingaccuracy introduces another shortcoming: evid-ence of relative clauses and PP post-nominal mod-ifiers cannot be automatically retrieved.
Becauseof structural ambiguity, attachment decisions arestill a hard parsing problem.
This led us to ignorethese two types of modification in our research.Some limitations due to the nature of thesupport verb constructions emerged.
Specifierchanges or insertion of modification may destroythe LVC reading.
The queries could extract evid-ence that looks like a variant of the LVC baseform; in practice, the LVC interpretation does notapply.
For example, in most of the instances of theexpression de hand boven het hoofd houden ?toprotect s.o.?
(lit.
the hand above the head hold),hoofd is preceded by the definite determiner;there are also a few instances with a reciprocalelkaars ?each other?s?
and some instances withpossessive determiners.
The query results sug-gest that all three specifiers are possible; however,the instances with possessive determiners are lit-eral uses.
Occasionally, a PREPOSITION NOUNVERB triple clusters homonymous expressions.
Asearch that specifies the triple base form IN HANDHOUDEN could match any of the following: ietsin e?e?n hand houden ?to be the boss?, het heft inhanden houden ?remain in control?, de touwtjes inhanden houden, iets in handen houden ?have con-trol over sth?
or iets in de handen houden ?to holdsth in one?s hands (lit.)?.
Access to the subcat-egorization requirements of the LVC use (that dif-fers from those of the regular phrase) (e.g.
iemandvan de straat houden ?keep s.o.
off the street?
vs.van de straat houden ?to love the street?)
wouldsolve some cases.The corpus-based method cannot be fully auto-mated; that is, extraction of variation and modi-fication evidence cannot be done fully automat-ically.
Instead, the evidence retrieved needs tobe manually inspected.
This brings up a lastlimitation of the method.
At least one instanceof each variation and modification type requiresmanual inspection.
The researcher needs to es-tablish whether the LVC interpretation is presentor only a literal reading applies.
Yet, all the toolswe used facilitated this process and they provideplenty of relevant linguistic empirical evidence.A last limitation affecting most corpus-basedresearch is that having found no evidence of vari-ation and modification does not mean that it is notpossible in LVCs.
Some LVCs are rare in the cor-pus; LVCs that exhibit variation and/or modifica-tion are even more infrequent.
A larger corpus isdesirable.4 Lexicon representation in AlpinoThe Alpino lexicon entries specify (if applicable)subcategorization frames enriched with depend-ency relations and some lexical restrictions.
Sup-port verb constructions and idiomatic expressionsare treated similarly; neither of these expressionsconstitute a lexical entry on their own (cf.
(Breidtet al, 1996)).
We concentrate on the LVC annota-tion in the remainder.Support verb constructions are lexicalizedcombinations of a support verb.
Main verbs ex-hibit the same form (lemma) as their related sup-port verb.
We distinguish between a main verband a support verb by specifying the distributionalcontext of the support verb.
This context is cap-tured as an extended subcategorization frame.
4An extended subcategorization frame consists oftwo parts: (a) list of syntactic dependents and(b) syntactic operations that the LVC (dis)allows.Among syntactic dependents, we include thoselexemes and/or phrases necessary to derive thepredicational content of the LVC.
The syntacticdependents may be realized by three types ofphrases: (i) fully lexicalized, (ii) partially lexic-alized and (iii) variable argument slots.
Next, thedescription of the phrase types is supported withexpressions encountered earlier in the paper.
5Fully lexicalized phrases exist as individuallexical entries.
No variation, modification nor ex-traction out of these phrases is possible.
A fully4This working implementation assumes that the verb se-lects the dependents of the LVC, thus, departing from otherproposals (Abeill?e, 1995) where the complement noun se-lects the support verb.
Although the semantics layer is leftout, this approach echoes lexicalist HPSG proposals suchas (Krenn and Erbach, 1994; Sailer, 2000).5Each example displays the light verb followed by itssyntactic dependents given within ??.
Subject is omitted.68lexicalized phrase is a string of lexemes ?
each intheir surface form ?
and is represented within ?[]?
:houden ?
dat,[de,hand],[boven,het,hoofd] ?houden ?
refl, [van,de,domme] ?Partially lexicalized phrases declare the type ofargument they introduce e.g.
accusative, semi-fixed prepositional phrase, predicative argument.These phrases also specify lexical restrictions onthe head lexeme and, allow alternation of spe-cifiers and morphological productivity in nouns.Partially lexicalized PPs list the head prepositionand its object NP head.houden ?
acc(rekening), pc(met) ?brengen ?
acc, pp(op,gedachten) ?Finally, open argument slots state what sortof argument is required (e.g.
acc(usative),refl(exive), dat(ive)).
No lexical restrictions aredeclared.stellen ?
acc, pp(in,bewaring) ?Concerning the syntactic behavior of LVCs,Alpino currently only declares whether the ex-pressions allow passive or not and the type ofpassive.
The current representation allows in-tervening adjuncts and other material betweenthe syntactic dependents.
No explicit constraintsare stated with regards to topicalization, wh-extraction, coordination, clefting, etc.5 Related workAutomatically annotated corpora have been usedbefore to identify (prepositional) support verbconstructions and to asses their variation andmodification potential.
Led by (Krenn, 2000) andcontinued by (Spranger, 2004) (among others),most work focused on German support verb con-structions and figurative expressions.
Our use offully parsed corpora and the treebank query toolto extract relevant evidence introduces a funda-mental difference with the cited work.Analytic techniques to annotate syntacticallyflexible (but idiosyncratic) expressions in lexicalresources are discussed in (Breidt et al, 1996;Sag et al, 2001) and (Odijk, 2004).
Within asimilar line of work, (Sag et al, 2001) proposelexical selection, inheritance hierarchies of con-structions and the notion of idiomatic construc-tion to formalize the syntax and semantics of trulyfixed, semi-fixed and syntactically flexible ex-pressions.
Assuming a regular syntactic behaviorand having checked that component lexemes sat-isfy certain predicate-argument relationships, thesemantics layer assigns the idiomatic interpreta-tion to syntactically flexible expressions.
(Sag etal., 2001) only mention light verb plus noun con-structions.
Supposedly, the Dutch prepositionalLVCs fall into the syntactically flexible group.6 Conclusion and further improvementsThe corpus-based method extracts evidence ofvariation and modification within support verbconstructions.
The method is sufficiently efficientin extracting proof of morphological productivity,specifier variation and adjectival modification in-side LVCs, but at least one instance of each typeof variation needs to be manually assessed to de-termine whether the LVC interpretation is present.The evidence retrieved allows us to establish therequired syntactic structure, lexical restrictionsand furthermore, a preliminary classification ofLVCs.
Our findings form the basis of the lexicalannotation of these expressions in Alpino.A few ideas to enhance the method described inorder to improve the quality of the retrieved evid-ence follow.
During compilation of the raw sub-corpus, we will adapt the method so that, for eachP N V triple, all verb and noun variant forms areretrieved from an existing lexicon.
This ensuresthat the ?subcorpus compiler?
collects all possiblevariants from the TwNC.
Given that the parseddata includes dependency relations we are tryingdifferent methods to infer the complete subcat-egorization frame of each LVC.
So far, an LVCis represented as a P N V triple, but we need toknow other syntactic requirements of the predic-ate.
Access to subcategorization frames ought toimprove the extraction of variation evidence.
Fi-nally, the experiments described concentrate onsupport verb constructions.
It is sometimes dif-ficult to distinguish a support verb constructionfrom an idiomatic expression.
Thus, some of theexpressions might perfectly belong to the idiomsclass, rather than the support verb constructiongroup.
A related question is how to distinguish69the literal use of triples from the support verbconstruction use automatically.
This still needsa solution.AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Gertjan van Noord and thethree anonymous reviewers for their invaluableinput on this research.
This research was suppor-ted in part by the NWO PIONIER grant 220-70-001and also the IRME STEVIN project.ReferencesAnne Abeill?e.
1995.
The Flexibility of FrenchIdioms: a representation with lexicalized tree ad-joining grammar.
In Martin Everaert, Erik-Janvan der Linden, Andre Schenk, and Rob Schreuder,editors, Idioms: Structural & Psychological Per-spectives.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.T.
Baldwin, J. Beavers, L. van der Beek, F. Bond,D.
Flickinger, and I.A.
Sag, to appear.
In searchof a systematic treatment of Determinerless PPs.Computational Linguistics Dimensions of Syntaxand Semantics of Prepositions.
Kluwer Academic.Gosse Bouma and Geert Kloosterman.
2002.
Query-ing dependency treebanks in XML.
In Proceedingsof the 3rd International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2002), volume V,pages 1686?1691, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria,Spain.Elisabeth Breidt, Frederique Segond, and GiuseppenValetto.
1996.
Local grammars for the descriptionof multi-word lexemes and their automatic recogni-tion in texts.
In COMPLEX96, Budapest.Ted Briscoe and John Carroll.
1997.
Automatic ex-traction of subcategorization from corpora.
In Pro-ceedings of the 5th ACL conference on applied Nat-ural Language Processing, pages 356?363, Wash-ington,D.C.Miriam Butt.
1995.
The structure of complex predic-ates in Urdu.
Ph.D. thesis, Stanford University.Bart Hollebrandse.
1993.
Dutch light verb construc-tions.
Master?s thesis, Tilburg University, the Neth-erlands.Brigitte Krenn and Gregor Erbach.
1994.
Idiomsand support verb constructions.
In John Nerbonne,Klaus Netter, and Carl Pollard, editors, Germanin Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar, pages365?395.
CSLI.Brigitte Krenn.
2000.
The Usual Suspects: Data Ori-ented Models for the Identification and Representa-tion of Lexical Collocations.
Ph.D. thesis, DFKI &Universitat des Saarlandes.Rosamund Moon.
1998.
Fixed expressions andIdioms in English.
A corpus-based approach.
Clar-endom Press, Oxford.Tim Nicolas.
1995.
Semantics of idiom modifi cation.In Martin Everaert, Erik-Jan van der Linden, AndreSchenk, and Rob Schreuder, editors, Idioms: Struc-tural & Psychological Perspectives.
Lawrence Erl-baum Associates, New Jersey.Jan Odijk.
2004.
Reusable lexical representation foridioms.
In Proceedings of 4th International Confer-ence on Language Resources and Evaluation 2004,volume III, pages 903?906, Portugal.R.J.F.
Ordelman.
2002.
Twente Nieuws Corpus(TwNC), August.
Parlevink Language Techono-logy Group.
University of Twente.Carl Pollard and Ivan A.
Sag.
1994.
Head?DrivenPhrase Structure Grammar.
The University ofChicago Press, CSLI: Stanford.Susanne Riehemann.
2001.
A constructional ap-proach to idioms and word formation.
Ph.D. thesis,Stanford University.Ivan Sag, T. Baldwin, F. Bond, A. Copestake, andD.
Flickinger.
2001.
Multiword expressions: a painin the neck for NLP.
LinGO Working Paper No.2001-03.Manfred Sailer.
2000.
Combinatorial Semantics& Idiomatic Expressions in Head-Driven PhraseStructure Grammar.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofTuebingen.Kristina Spranger.
2004.
Beyond subcategoriza-tion acquisition.
Multi-parameter extraction fromGerman text corpora.
In Proceedings of the 11thEURALEX International Congress, volume I, pages171?177, France.Leonoor van der Beek, Gosse Bouma, Jan Da-ciuk, Tanja Gaustad, Robert Malouf, Gertjanvan Noord, Robbert Prins, and Begon?a Vil-lada.
2002.
Algorithms for Linguistic Pro-cessing NWO PIONIER Progress Report.
Avail-able electronically at http://odur.let.rug.nl/?vannoord/alp., Groningen.Begon?a Villada Moir?on.
2004.
Distinguishing prepos-itional complements from fi xed arguments.
In Pro-ceedings of the 11th EURALEX International Con-gress, volume III, pages 935?942, Lorient, France.Begon?a Villada Moir?on.
2005.
Data-driven Identi-fication of fixed expressions and their modifiability.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Groningen.70
