Annotating Honorifics Denoting Social Ranking of ReferentsShigeko Nariyama*!, Hiromi Nakaiwa*, Melanie Siegel"Communication Science Lab, NTT Kyoto, Japan*{shigekon, hiromi}@cslab.kecl.ntt.co.jp!
The University of Melbourne, Australia shigeko@unimelb.edu.au"DFKI GmbH Saarbr?cken, Germany siegel@dfki.deAbstractThis paper proposes an annotatingscheme that encodes honorifics(respectful words).
Honorifics are usedextensively in Japanese, reflecting thesocial relationship (e.g.
social ranks andage) of the referents.
This referentialinformation is vital for resolving zeropronouns and improving machinetranslation outputs.
Annotating honorificsis a complex task that involvesidentifying a predicate with honorifics,assigning ranks to referents of thepredicate, calibrating the ranks, andconnecting referents with their predicates.1 IntroductionTo varying extents, languages have ways toreflect the speaker?s deference towards theaddressee and people being referred to inutterances (c.f.
Brown and Levinson 1987): byadopting a more polite air or tone of voice,avoiding coarse language, and modifying one?schoice of specific vocabulary.
This is prominentin Asian languages, Japanese and Korean inparticular, which exhibit an extensive use ofhonorifics (respectful words).Morphologically for example, French has achoice of the familiar tu and the formal vous (athird person plural) for the second personreferent.
Similarly Greek has the same choice:esei and eseis respectively.
European languagescommonly project one?s deference by the use ofdifferent personal pronouns and titles (e.g.
Mr.,Dr., and Hon.
).Japanese and Korean, on the other hand, havenumerous ways to say ?I?
or ?you?
calibrated bysocial position, age, gender and other factors.The projection of honorifics extends over thevocabulary of verbs, adjectives, and nouns aswell as sentence structures, to elevate a personor humble oneself.
(1) and (2) below fromJapanese are such examples, which use honorificverbs instead of neutral forms kuru ?come?, iku?go/accompany?, and motomeru ?seek?:(1)?????????????
?Irasshat-tara, otomosuru.come-when accompany?When (an honouree) comes, (an honourer)accompanies (the honoree).?(2)??????
?Enjo-o aoida.help-OB sought?
(A lower ranked person) turns to (a higherranked person) for help.
?Examples (1) and (2) also reveal thenotorious problem of zero pronoun resolution inJapanese, where the subject and the object of asentence are frequently left unexpressed(Nakaiwa 2002, Nariyama 2003, inter alia).
Itis clear from the examples that coding thehonorific relations of referents provides vitalinformation for identifying what zero pronounsrefer to; namely, to know whether or not apredicate denotes disparity of social rankbetween referents and to identify the rank of thereferents.
This is what this paper proposes todo.
Siegel (2000) reported that 23.9% ofJapanese zero pronouns in task-orienteddialogues can be resolved using informationgleaned from honorification.Coding of honorifics also improves machinetranslation outputs into Japanese in choosingthe correct predicate depending on therelationship of the referents.
Inappropriate useof honorifics, in particular the use of the plainform where an honorific form should be used, isrude and can be offensive.91Section 2 reviews some earlier work on thistopic in NLP; Section 3 elaborates on honorifics;Section 4 formulates the ranking factors; Section5 proposes a way to assign ranks to referents;Section 6 discusses a way to calibrate rankingsof referents, as ranks are relative to the ranks ofother referents in the sentence; Section 7describes our annotation scheme, and finallyconclusion in Section 8.2 Earlier studiesThe Japanese honorification system has beenstudied extensively in linguistics, particularly insociolinguistics.
Because of its importance andfrequent use in the Japanese language, there hasbeen some related work in NLP; within theframework of grammar formalism, GPSG byIkeya (1983), JPSG by Gunji (1987), and morerecently HPSG by Siegel (2000); work from aview point of resolving zero pronouns indialogues by Dohsaka (1990).Of these, the most thorough work onJapanese honorification is seen in JACY, aJapanese HPSG grammar (Siegel 2000, Siegeland Bender 2002).
It extends the BACKGR(owe ?
honour) relation (Pollard and Sag 1994),which accounts only for subject honorifics, toaccommodate the other types of honorificationused in Japanese (see Section 3.1 for the types).The full account of the Japanesehonorification system requires syntactic andpragmatic information in many dimensions, withmore input from the latter, the gathering ofwhich is an extremely convoluted task.
Thispaper builds on the basics from JACY andcomplements it in two ways to extend the JACYannotation presented in Section 7.1.
Ranking referents in social hierarchy2.
Calibrating the ranksRegarding 1, honorifics tell which referent ishigher in rank, so each referent must be assigneda rank to make use of honorific information.This is crucial when generating sentences toassign appropriate forms of honorific nouns andpredicates in machine translation output intoJapanese.
In processing, ranking referents is notusually of importance when referents are overt,but it is when referents are zero pronouns.
Theidentification of zero pronouns relies heavily onthe honorific information conveyed in thepredicates.Regarding 2, social rank is not absolute, butrelative, so that the same referent may be higheror lower depending on which referent it appearswith in a sentence.
For example, the president ofa company is socially regarded as ranked higherthan the managers, who are in turn higher thanclerks, but this rank is outweighed when theirclients come in the sentence, in which case thepresident is ranked lower than their clients.3 HonorificsHonorifics is a term used to represent words thatconvey esteem or respect.
Extensive studies onJapanese honorification revealed many forms ofhonorifics in use.
The use of honorification ismandatory in many social situation.
1 Hence,every sentence can be viewed as coded forhonorification if we consider the lack of anhonorific marking as a sign that there is nohierarchical difference between referents.Types of honorifics that indicate who isshown respect are described in Subsection 3.1,and forms of honorifics in Subsection 3.2.3.1 Types of honorificsHonorifics in modern (post-war) Japanese aregenerally classified into the following threecategories, depending on who is shown respect(Martin 1964, Matsumoto 1997, Nariyama 2003,inter alia).
The first two types are often referredto as ?propositional (referential) honorifics?.i.
Subject honorifics (called Sonkeigo inJapanese): to elevate or show respecttowards the subject of a sentenceii.
Non-subject honorifics (called Humility,or Kenjogo): to humble oneself by showingrespect to the non-subject referent,generally the objectiii.
Addressee honorifics (?polite?,Teineigo): to show respect towards thelistenerNote that the expressions of deference are bynature made essentially with human referents,i.e.
between an honouree and an honourer.1 However, sometimes honorification is uncoded even forrespected referents, especially when the respected person isnot present at the site of an utterance.92However, paying respect often extends to thingsand events related to the honouree in Japanese.This is often expressed with an honorific prefixo- or go- to the nouns.
For example, the passage(3) is used by train conductors for ticketinspection.
The use of non-subject honorificform means that the unexpressed subject (i.e.
thetrain conductor) is showing respect towards thetickets, which belong to or have some relation tohis honourees (i.e.
the passengers).(3)????????
?Kippu-o haikenshi-masu.ticket-OB look[NsubH]-Polite'(An honourer) is going to inspect (his honourees?)tickets.'
!
'Let me inspect your tickets, please.
'3.2 Forms of honorificsHonorifics in Japanese take various forms thatare reflected in the word forms, either in lexicalchoice or in inflections ?
verbs in Subsection3.2.1, adjectives and nouns in Subsection 3.2.2,and also sentence structures in Subsection 3.2.3.3.2.1 VerbsThere are five ways of expressing referenthonorification in verbs, depending on the type ofverb and the level of respect that is intended.2Types 3 displays the highest deference, and3>2>1>4 in descending order.
Type 5 displays aformality rather than deference towards thereferent.
The larger the gap in the hierarchy, themore disparity of referents in rank we expect.3.2.1.1 Type 1: Alternation of verb formsVerbs can be transformed into subject honorific(SubH) and non-subject honorific (NsubH)structures as follows:SubH: o + verb stem + ni naru (?become?
).NsubH: o + verb stem + suru (?do?
).2 According to Wenger (1983:283-292), 70% of verbs haveSubject honorific forms, while only 36% of verbs havenon-subject honorific forms.
He explains why not all verbshave forms of honorification, although he does not explainwhy there are fewer non-subject honorific forms.Honorification cannot occur, 1) unless the subject ishuman; this explains why there are no honorific forms forverbs such as kooru ?freeze?
and hoeru ?bark?
; and 2) onverbs that have negative connotations, such as kuiarasu ?eatgreedily?.Accordingly, machi ?wait?, for example, can beturned into two different forms of honorifics:(4a) O-machi-ni naru.
[SubH]'(An honouree) waits (for someone/something).
'(4b) O-machi-suru.
[NsubH]'(An honourer) waits (for an honouree).
?The honorific prefix o- can be go-, as shownbelow.
Basically, o- is used for Japanese nativeverbs and nouns and go- for Sino-Japanese(Chinese originated) words.
(5a) Go-shichaku-ni naru.
[SubH]'(An honouree) tries on (clothes).
'(5b) Go-hookoku-suru [NsubH]'(An honourer) reports (to an honouree).
'3.2.1.2 Type 2: Suppletive formsDifferent lexical items are used for some (morefrequently used) verbs.
For example, thefollowing examples all mean '?
eat':(6a) Taberu.
[non-honorific: neutral]'(Someone) eats.
'(6b) Meshiagaru.
[SubH]'(An honouree) eats.
'(6c) Itadaku.
[NsubH]'(An honourer) eats.
'Table 1 shows some examples of othersuppletive forms of honorification.Neutral SubH NsubHdo suru nasaru itasuexist/stay iru irassharu/o-ide-ni-naru orugo iku irassharu/ mairu/o-ide-ni-naru ukagaucome kuru irassharu/o-ide-ni-naru mairusay iu ossharu moosueat/drink taberu/nomu meshiagaru itadakuTable 1: Suppletive forms of honorificationNotice that some honorific forms are sharedby very different meanings of verbs.
Forinstance, irassharu can mean either ?come?,?go?, or ?stay?.
The nature of honorification issaid to be indirect in expression.
This semanticneutralization poses problems in machinetranslation outputs from Japanese.933.2.1.3 Type 3: Combination of Types 1 & 2This usage is restricted to some verbs, forexample:(7) O-meshiagari-ni naru.
'(Someone highly respected) eats.
'3.2.1.4 Type 4: Use of passive form -rareThe passive -rare is suffixed to the verb stem todisplay subject honorifics instead of the passiveinterpretation; for example:(8) Tabe-rare-ru.
'(An honouree) eats.'c.f.
(6a) Taberu.
[non-honorific: neutral]'(Someone) eats.
'Note that there are no correspondingconstructions of Types 3 and 4 for non-subjecthonorific forms.3.2.1.5 Type 5: Lexical semanticsThe semantics of some verbs give rise toreferential restrictions, in that the subject mustbe higher or lower than the non-subject referent.This has been neglected in previous studies ofhonorification.
Analogous to the example in (1),insotsu ??
?take?
has a restricted usage as ?
(ahigher ranked person) leads (a group of lowerranked people).
?We used Lexeed (Bond et al 2004) - amanually built self-contained lexicon, to extractverbs and verbal nouns with such referentialrestrictions.
It consists of words and theirdefinitions for the most familiar 28,000 words inJapanese, as measured by native speakers.
Thisset is formulated to cover the most basic words,which cover 72.2% of the words in a typicalJapanese newspaper.
Since honorification tendsto be found more in sophisticated words than inbasic words, we used those extracted verbs asseeds to expand the list using the Goi-Taikeithesaurus (Ikehara et al 1997).For example, the semantic class meirei ???command?
(Class Number 1824) listssynonyms, such as iitsukeru ?????
?tell?,and shiji ??
?instruct?, all of which exhibit thesame referential restriction: a high ranked personas the subject and a low ranked person as theobject.
However, this is not always the case.
Forinstance, kyoka ??
?permit?
(Class Number1735) includes as its synonyms dooi ??
?agree?and sansei ??
?agree/approve?
that do notexhibit the same referential restriction as kyoka.We manually extracted from Lexeed 698such verbs (397 of these are ?a higher rankedperson does to a lower person?
and the rest 301are the reverse), and from Goi-Taikei further 429(228, 201 respectively), 1127 in total.3.2.2 Nouns and adjectivesHonorification is also expressed on nouns(including verbal nouns) and adjectives by thehonorific prefix o- with variants on-, go-, and mi.Honorific prefixes have four functions:[1] An entity/action belongs to the honouree.
[2] An entity/action has an implication to thehonouree, even when it belongs to thespeaker.3[3] Addressee honorifics to show formality ofspeech/politeness to the addressee.4[4] Conventional usage5The use of the honorific particles in [1]provides important information on the type ofreferents.
Possessors are seldom expressed andthere are no definite/indefinite articles inJapanese (Bond 2005), but honorific particlescan take on these functions.
For example, o-nimotsu (honorable luggage) means 'your/his/...luggage', and go-ryokoo means 'your/his/... trip'.Although the exact identity of the honoree-possessors is context dependent, as the followingminimal pair of sentences show, in (9a) thepossessors can never be the speaker or thespeaker's in-group member (see Subsection 4.2for ?in-group?
), as indicted by *.
In contrast, theidentity of the subject, as in (9b) without anhonorific particle, is generally the speaker or hisin-group member.3 For example, o-tegami (literally, ?honourable letter?)
isused when the letter is something to do with the honouree;it could be the letter that the honouree wrote, a letter sentby someone else to the honouree, or a letter written by thespeaker to the honouree.4 For example, o-hana (flowers) and o-shokuji (meal) aresuch cases where possession is not a concern.5 The standard example of this type is go-han ?honourable-rice?
meaning 'rice/meal'.
Such honorific particles do notconvey honorifics, but are seen as part of set phrases.94(9a)??????
?O-genki de iru.Hon.-good health be stay'(The honouree/*I/*In-group) is in good health.
'(9b) ??????
?-Genki de irugood health be stay'(*The honouree /I/ In-group) is well.
'3.2.3 Sentence structuresHonorification is manifested also in the choiceof sentence structure.
The causative constructioncan be used only when the causer is superior insocial hierarchy to the causee, as shown in (10).If the causee is equal to or superior over thecauser, the benefactive construction is used,conveying the same proposition with theconnotation that the causee has accepted thecauser's request instead of command, as in (11).Thus, the sentence structure reveals thereferential disparity in rank.
(10) ??????????
?Watashi-wa otooto-ni hon-o yom-ase-ta.I younger brother-IO book-OB read-Caus-Past'I made my younger brother read the book.
'(11) ??????????????
?Watashi-wa sensei-ni hon-o yon-de morat-ta.I teacher-IO book-OB read-and receive-Past'(I requested my teacher to read the book for me, and)my teacher read the book for me.
'4 Ranking factorsSection 3 explained the various forms thatindicate disparity of referents in rank.
Thissection describes three factors that induce suchdisparity in rank: Social hierarchy, in-group andout-group distinction, and unfamiliarity of theaddressee.4.1 Social hierarchySocial hierarchy is the core rank-inducingfactor, which can be overridden by the othertwo factors.
It refers to social ranks in suchsocial settings as company, school, family, aswell as general age/generational rank.
Forexample, an employer is perceived as rankedhigher than his employees, and a teacher ishigher than his students, and the older a personis, the higher he is ranked.Social hierarchy functions similar to theSubject-Verb agreement in terms of person,number and gender seen in many Europeanlanguages.
Although Japanese has no syntacticcoding of such a S-V agreement, verbs agreewith the referential relation of the subject andother referents in terms of social hierarchy (thesame view is held by Pollard and Sag 1994).4.2 In-group and out-group distinctionReferents are also classified according to the in-group and out-group distinction, depending onthe social relation among three parties: thespeaker, the addressee, and the people beingreferred to.6 For example, in (12) an officer ofa company (the speaker) talks about thepresident of his company (referent) to his boss(addressee).
The officer is ranked lower thanthe president and his boss, and accordingly thesubject honorific and addressee honorific(?Polite?)
are used.
However in (13), when hereports the same proposition to people outsidethe company, the president is regarded as a ?in-group?
member to the speaker, and therefore thedescription of him uses the non-subjecthonorific form of verb, the same as the speakerwould use to describe himself.
In other words,the rank assigned from social hierarchy isoverridden by the in-group and out-groupdistinction.
(12) ?????????????
?Shachoo-ga irrashai-mashi-ta.president-SB come[SubH]-Polite-Past?The president has arrived.
'(13) ????????
?Shachoo-ga mairi-mashi-ta.president-SB come[NsubH]-Polite-Past?The president has arrived.
'Thus, the dichotomy of in-group/out-groupdistinction is relative.
This is prominently seenin the use of family terms, as shown in Table 2.When someone talks to her/his mother or abouther with her/his family, 'mother' is referred to as6 Generally, the type of honorific use is also determined bythe three parties.
To be more precise, setting and bystanderalso play a part in determining the type of honorifics to beused (Brown and Levinson 1987).95okaasan, using the out-group (OG) form, whilewhen talking about her to outsiders, she isreferred to as haha, using the in-group (IG)form.There are three lexical types that reflect thein-group and out-group distinction.1) the deictic prefixes:too- hon-, hei-, setu, etc.
for the in-groupuse, translated into English as 'my/our', andki-, o-, on-, etc.
for the out-group use,translated as 'your/his/her/their'.
Forexample, too-koo (my/our school) versus ki-koo (your/their school).2) the suffixes -san/-sama/-dono:for instance, gakusei 'a student' is referred toas gakusei-san out of deference to arespected out-group person (e.g.
?yourstudents?, ?student of your school?
).3) suppletive forms:some examples are shown in Table 2.IG referent OG referentmother haha o-kaasanfather chichi o-toosanwife tsuma, kanai o-kusanson segare, musuko go-shisoku,musuko-sandaughter musume o-joo-sanTable 2: Referential forms by in-group andout-group4.3 Unfamiliarity of the addresseeIn apparent absence of disparity in socialranking and age, honorifics can still be usedsubjectively in formal settings, whencommunicating with unfamiliar people,particularly by female speakers.5 Assigning referents with ranks usingGoi-Taikei thesaurusIn order to make use of honorific information,each referent must be assigned with a rank todetermine which referent in a sentence isranked the highest.
We use Goi-Taikei for thisassignment (Ikehara et al 1997).
It has asemantic feature tree with over 3,000 nodes ofsemantic classes organised with a maximum of12 levels (see Figure 1).
It includes in itssemantic classes information on occupationalstatus, generation, family composition; the sortof information needed for this assignment.Noun Level 1Concrete AbstractAgent Place ConcretePerson OrganizationHuman Person (Occupation/Status/Role)Human Occupation Status Role Level 6Gender Seniority Specialised king minister director ?Male Fem Infant ?Adult ElderlyTeacher Student?
?
?
?
?
?
Level 12Figure 1: Excerpt from Goi-Taikei thesaurusIn addition, the following two tasks arerequired:1) Group some semantic classes together fromdifferent nodes.For the honorific use, some semantic classesthat are scattered over different nodes in the treeshould be grouped together.
For instance, theinformation relevant to Social hierarchy is foundnot only under Occupation (status) but alsounder Organization, Family, and so forth.2) Rank the semantic classes where relevant.Figure 2 is a preliminary result showingranks of referents in selected semantic classes,noted as class names followed by their semanticclass numbers in Goi-Taikei listed in ascendingorder.96Social hierarchy- senior 142 > junior 143- experienced 145 > less experienced 146- master 139 > apprentice 140- teacher 237 > student 238- king/emperor 320 > aristocrats 321- minister 322> clerk 326- directors 323 > deputy director 324 >executive 325 >Age/Generation- elderly 63 > adult 60 > youth 57 >boy/girl 54 > infant 51- ancestors 84 > grandparents 81 > parents78 > children 86 > grandchildren 89 >descendants 92- older sibling 94 > younger sibling 97- uncle/aunt 101 > nephew/niece 104Figure 2: Strings of ranksThis list needs to be expanded.
As the list istaken exhaustively from Goi-Taikei, theseentries must be augmented with other thesauri,organisation charts, genealogical trees, and otherways as well as by hand.6 Calibration of ranksRanks of referents are not absolute, but relativeto the other referents in the sentence.
Forexample, an adult referent is ranked higher thana youth, but the same referent is ranked lowerwhen appearing with an elderly in the samesentence.
Similarly, manager in a company ishigher than workers with no title, but the samemanager is lower than the company president.Thus, the calibration of rankings is necessary.However, calibrating ranks while capturingrelative ranks is an extremely complicated task,as any combination of referents and rankingcategories can appear in a sentence as well asthe fact that one referent may belong to multiplecategories.
For example, a measure has to betaken in case one referent is ranked in onestring (e.g.
?minister?)
than the other referent(e.g.
?clerk?)
in the same sentence, but he islower in another string (e.g.
?less experienced?in the profession or younger in age) (see Figure2); or when the in-group and out-groupdistinction takes the precedence in the form ofhonorifics, for instance a referent is senior thanthe other referent, but he is an in-group memberto the speaker.More complicated still, within the sameclass, there may exist a disparity in rank.
Forexample, the age difference, even by one year,can determine the use of honorifics, so thathonorifics is used between two referents underthe same class adult.Considering the above, we propose thefollowing calibration scheme as an initial stepof dealing with the complex phenomena ofhonorifics.
[1] create referential links, example modulesof which are suggested in Figure 3.
Eachstring of ranks in Figure 2 constitutes amodule, which is connected to anothermodule.
Figure 3 shows that a referent?JOHN?
is a student as well as a child of hisparents that is depicted.
JOHN belongs toother modules of strings; he may be an elderbother at home, and may be a senior studentat school, each of which is a member of amodule and is connected to other modules.Connections between two modules may bemore than one, for example, ?grandparent?may be a teacher of ?teacher?
of JOHN.It is necessary to identify as manymodules as identifiable and to link them inorder to accurately determine the ranks of eachreferent for a sentence.Out-group membersPrime MinisterMinistry of Education In-group membersPrincipal ancestorHead teacher grandparentteacher PTA/parentstudent ?JOHN?
childgrandchilddescendantFigure 3: Two modules of referential links97[2] a diagram for calibrating ranksFigure 4 is proposed to capture themechanisms of honorifics that determine theranks of referents for a sentence.The referential links are the first (core)rank determining factor.
When one referentbelongs to multiple strings, for instance, astring from Social hierarchy and anotherfrom Age, then the former takes the higherrank, which is noted as ?Social > Age?.
Thecase where two referents belong to the sameclass but still appear with honorifics is due tothe subtle difference in rank, noted as ?Thesame class?.These ranks assigned by the referentiallinks can be overridden by ?in/out groupprecedence?, which is determined by the typeof modules, as shown in Figure 3.The use of honorifics in absence ofdisparity in social rank is interpreted as lackof familiarity of the addressee.Referential linksNB: Multiple links (Social > Age)NB: The same classUnfamiliarity (no disparity in rank)Figure 4: Diagram of calibrating ranks7 AnnotationOur annotation method is an extension of theframework of JACY, a Japanese HPSG grammar(Siegel 2000), as discussed in Section 2.Subsection 7.1 describes the JACY annotationand Subsection 7.2 is the extension we madefrom this research.7.1 JACY annotationThe JACY annotation scheme for honorificationcan be seen in Figure 5 with examples on thebottom of the tree.
It annotates honorificationconcerning referential nouns (honorific entity),predicative honorifics (subject honorifics) thatare triggered by honorific entities, and predicatesof the addressee honorifics.
The notion ofpolarity is used to denote the three types ofvalue; a polarity value ?+?
means a subjecthonorific form, ?-?
denotes a non-subjecthonorific form, and ?bool?
is indeterminate.
It iscapable of accounting for the basic types ofhonorification, as being expressed by verbforms, suppletive forms, passive, nouns andadjectives.Figure 5: JACY annotation for honorifics(with examples)7.2 Extended JACY annotationBased on our findings, we extend the JACYannotation Figure 5 to Figure 6 by adding tworelations in the honorification, Social rankingand In-group relation.As for Social ranking, Subsection 3.2.1.5introduced those verbs with referentialrestrictions, such as insotsu ??
?take?
has arestricted usage as ?
(a higher ranked person)leads (a group of lower ranked people).?
Theselexical items are added to honorific informationin JACY, as being part of the lexical typehierarchy.
In addition, the use of causative thatimposes the interpretation ?a high ranked personacts on the lower?
is accounted for under Socialranking (see Subsection 3.2.3).We notate the relation deriving from socialranking as social_ranking_rel.
It has twoarguments, which show the semantic indices ofthe verbal arguments, the first (or left) argumentbeing ranked higher.
The relation is triggered bythe lexical types and the causative usage.Example 10, 'I made my younger brother readthe book', is annotated with social_ranking-rel(watashi, otooto), while example 11 'my teacherread the book for me' is annotated withsocial_ranking-rel (sensei, watashi).In/out group precedenceHonorificsPropositionalhonorificsSubjecthonorificAddresseehonorifics(Polarity -)(Polarity +)o-hanasi ni nar-u, o-hanasi su-ru,hanasi-mas-u, hanas-u,(poliitiy -)Honorificsentitysensei watashi(Polarity +) (Polarity -)(Polarity +)98Figure 6: Extended JACY annotation forhonorifics (with examples)The distinction between in-group and out-group makes it necessary to add a furtherrelation, called in_group_rel.
It has twoarguments, relating the speaker with thepredicate's subject.
As in the other honorificrelations, it gets a POLARITY feature, showingan in-group relation with [POLARITY +] and anout-group relation with [POLARITY -], and?bool?
for indeterminate.
The nominalexpressions that trigger in-group relations (suchas okaasan and haha in Table 2) add thisrelation to the CONTEXT.For a predicate, such as Example 13, withsubject honorific information [POLARITY -]and a subject with honorific entity information[POLARITY +], an in_group_rel is added torelate the speaker and the subject, annotated asin_group_rel (speaker, shachoo).To better understand the interaction of Socialranking and In-group relation, we refer toexamples 12 and 13.
In processing, predicativehonorifics is identified not by the referentialnouns, but by the predicates.
So, if the predicateis minus_shon (- SubH) and the subject isplus_ohon (+ entity honorifics), i.e.
(13), thenthere is an in-group relation.
On the other hand,with an out-group relation as in (12), thepredicate is plus_shon (+ SubH) and the subjectis plus_ohon (+ entity honorifics).
(12) ?????????????
?Shachoo-ga irrashai-mashi-ta.president-SB come[SubH]-Polite-Past?The president has arrived.
'(13) ????????
?Shachoo-ga mairi-mashi-ta.president-SB come[NsubH]-Polite-Past?The president has arrived.
'(14) is an example that combines differenttypes of honorific information.
Its CONTEXTannotation is described in Figure 7.7 The usageof the noun haha triggers an in_group_rel(speaker, haha) with [POLARITY +], while theusage of the noun okaasan will trigger anin_group_rel (speaker, okaasan) with[POLARITY -].
The extraction of social rankinginformation from Goi-Taikei shown in Figure 2makes use of this relation social_ranking_rel(arg1, arg2) between the entities in the sentence,for example 14 social_ranking_rel (sensei,haha).
(14) ????????????????
?Haha-wa senseo-ni denwa-oMonther-Top teacher-Dat call-Accsite-morai-mashi-ta.do-receive-Polite-past?My mother got the teacher to call.
?CONTEXT C-INDS SPEAKER #1ADDRESSEE #2entity-honor-relHONORER #1HONORED senseiPOLARITY +addr-honor-relHONORER #1HONORED #2POLARITY +empathy-relBACKGR  EMPER #1EMPEE hahain-group-relARG1 #1AEG2 hahaPOLARITY +Social-ranking-relARG1 senseiARG2 hahaFigure 7: Context annotation of complexhonorification7 The values of HONORED or ARGx are actually pointersto the indices of the entities, which are written here as theorthographic realization for readability.HonorificsPropositionalhonorificsSubjecthonorificsAddresseehonorifics(Polarity -)(Polarity +)o-hanasi ni nar-u,etc.o-hanasi su-ru, etc.hanasi-mas-u, etc.hanas-u, etc.
(Polarity -)Entityhonorificssensei watashi(Polarity +) (Polarity -)(Polarity +)SocialrankingIn-grouprelation(Polarity +)(Polarity -)Yomaseru(Causative),Insotsu, etchaha okaasan998 ConclusionThis paper has proposed a scheme to realise thecomplex linguistic phenomena of the Japanesehonorifics in tangible forms for auto-processing.Ranking referents is an extremely complex taskthat requires a combined understanding ofsyntax, semantics and pragmatics in manydimensions.In future work, the referential links and theircalibration need to be expanded to make anannotation more meaningful.
This will be anincremental process and takes a substantialamount of work, perhaps comparable to thatrequired in creating a thesaurus or knowledgebase.The annotated data will be a valuableresource for research on zero pronoun resolutionand Machine Translation of generating Japanesesentences.
As the Korean honorification systemis quite similar to the Japanese, it will befeasible to make use of the approach also forKorean.
Furthermore, a part of the approach canbe extended as well for Chinese, since Japanesemakes use of the Chinese characters.AcknowledgementWe are grateful to Kyonghee Paik for herinvaluable advice.ReferencesF.
Bond.
2005.
Translating the untranslatable:A solution to the problem of generatingEnglish determiners.
CSLI Publications.CaliforniaF.
Bond et al 2004.
The Hinoki Treebank: ATreebank for Text Understanding, In Proc.
ofthe First IJCNLP, Lecture Notes in ComputerScience.
Springer VerlagP.
Brown and S.C. Levinson.
1987.
Politeness:Some universals in language usage.Cambridge University PressK.
Dohsaka.
1990.
Identifying the referents ofzero-pronouns in Japanese dialogues.
In Proc.Of the 9th European Conference on ArtificialIntelligence.
240-245T.
Gunji.
1987.
Japanese phrase structuregrammar.
Dordrecht: ReidelS.I.
Harada.
1976.
Honorifics.
In Shibatani (ed).Japanese Generative Grammar.
Syntax andSemantics Series Vol.5.
New York: AcademicPress.
499-561M.
Hoelter.
1999.
Lexical-semantic informationin Head-Driven Phrase Structure grammarand natural language processing.
LincomTheoretical LinguisticsS.
Ikehara et al (eds).
1997.
Japanese Lexicon.Iwanami PublishingA.
Ikeya.
1983.
Japanese honorific systems.
InProc.
of the 3rd Korean-Japanese JointWorkshop.
SeoulS.
Martin.
1964.
Speech levels in Japanese andKorean.
In Hymes.
Language in culture andsociety.
Harper and Row.
407-415Y.
Matsumoto.
1997.
The rise and fall ofJapanese nonsubject honorifics.
Journal ofPragmatics.
28:719-740H.
Nakaiwa.
2002.
Studies on zero pronounresolution for the Japanese-to-EnglishMachine translation (in Japanese).S.
Nariyama.
2003.
Ellipsis and Reference-tracking in Japanese.
SLCS 66, Amsterdam:John BenjaminsS.
Nariyama et al 2005.
ExtractingRepresentative Arguments from Dictionariesfor Resolving Zero Pronouns.
In Proc.
of theMT Summit X, PhuketC.
Pollard and I.A.
Sag.
1994.
Head-DrivenPhrase Structure Grammar.
Chicago:University of Chicago PressM.
Siegel.
2000.
Japanese Honorification in anHPSG Framework.
In Proc.
of the 14thPacific Asia Conference on Language,Information and Computation.
289-300.Waseda University, TokyoM.
Siegel and E M. Bender.
2002.
Efficientdeep processing of Japanese.
In Proc.
of the3rd Workshop on Asian Language Resourcesand International Standardization atCOLING.TaipeiJ.
Wenger.
1983.
Variation and change inJapanese honorific forms.
In Miyagawa andKitagawa (eds).
Studies in Japanese languageuse.
vol.16.
Edmonton: Linguistic ResearchInc.
283-292100
