Problems Of Reusing An Existing MT System?Ondr?ej Bojar, Petr Homola, Vladislav Kubon?Institute of Formal and Applied Linguistics?UFAL MFF UK, Malostranske?
na?me?st??
25, Praha 1, CZ-11800Czech Republic{bojar,homola,vk}@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractThis paper describes an attempt to recy-cle parts of the Czech-to-Russian ma-chine translation system (MT) in thenew Czech-to-English MT system.
Thepaper describes the overall architectureof the new system and the details ofthe modules which have been added.A special attention is paid to the prob-lem of named entity recognition andto the method of automatic acquisitionof lexico-syntactic information for thebilingual dictionary of the system.
Thepaper concentrates on the problems en-countered in the process of reusing ex-isting modules and their solution.1 IntroductionThe last decade has witnessed several attempts toincrease the quality of MT systems by introduc-ing new methods.
The strong stress on stochasticmethods in the NLP in general and in the MT inparticular, the attempts to develop hybrid systems,a wide acceptance of translation-memory basedsystems among the translation professionals, theaim at limited domain speech-to-speech transla-tion systems, all these (and many other) trendshave demonstrated encouraging results in recentyears.Developing and using new methods definitelymoves the whole MT field forward, but one?The work described in this paper has been supported bythe grant of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic GACRNo.405/03/0914 and partially also by the grant of the GrantAgency of the Charles University GAUK No.
351/2005should not forget about all the effort invested intothe old systems.
Reusing at least some parts ofthose systems may help to decrease the costs ofnew systems, especially when one of the lan-guages is not a ?big?
language and therefore thereis not such a wide range of tools, grammars, dic-tionaries available as for example for English,German, Japanese or Spanish.
In this paper wewould like to describe one such attempt to reusethe existing system for a new language pair.2 The original systemOne of the systems which was silently abandonedin early nineties was the system for the translationfrom Czech to Russian called RUSLAN (Oliva,1989).
It was being developed in the second halfof eighties with the aim to translate texts from arelatively closed thematic domain, the domain ofoperating systems of mainframes.The system used transfer-based architecture.The implementation of the system was almostcompletely done in Q-systems, a formalism cre-ated by Alain Colmerauer (Colmerauer, 1969)for the TAUM-METEO project.
The Czech-toRussian system also relied upon a set of dictio-naries containing all data exploited by individ-ual modules of the system.
Each lexical itemin the main (bilingual) dictionary contained notonly lexico-syntactic data (valency frames etc.
),but also a set of semantic features.The work on the system RUSLAN has been ter-minated in 1990, in the final phase of system test-ing and debugging.
The reason was quite sim-ple - after the political changes in 1989 there wasno more any commercial demand for Czech to179Russian MT system.The demand for Czech-English translation hasgrown dramatically during the years following theabandonment of the system RUSLAN.
On theother hand, also the range of methods, tools andresources for MT has grown substantially.
Sev-eral corpora were created for Czech, the mostprominent ones being the morphologically anno-tated Czech National Corpus and syntactically an-notated Prague Dependency Treebank.
In 2002we have started the work on the parallel bilin-gual Prague Czech English Dependency Treebank(PCEDT) (Cur??
?n et al, 2004), which containsabout a half of the texts from PennTreebank 3translated into Czech by native speakers.
A largemorphological dictionary of Czech has been de-veloped (Hajic?, 2001), allowing for a good qualitymorphological analysis of Czech, which has beentested in numerous commercial applications andscientific projects since then.3 The background of the projectThe main motivation for our Czech-English MTexperiment was to test several hypotheses.
Themost prominent of these hypotheses concerns thelevel, at which it is reasonable to perform thetransfer.
Due to the differences between both lan-guages it is not sufficient to perform the transferimmediately after the morphological analysis orshallow parsing, as it has been done in the MTsystem eslko aiming at the translation betweenclosely related (and similar) languages [cf (Hajic?et al, 2003)].
On the other hand, it is a ques-tion whether the typological differences betweenCzech and English justify the transfer being per-formed at the tectogrammatical (deep syntactic)level.Last but not least, one of our aims was to de-velop a rule-based MT system with minimal pos-sible costs, either reusing the existing modules ortrying to use (semi)automatic methods wheneverpossible, concentrating on areas where using thehuman labor would be extremely expensive (forexample building a large coverage bilingual dic-tionary, cf.
the following paragraphs.
)4 Czech-English MT systemThe main goal of our project is to develop an ex-perimental MT system for the translation of textsfrom the PCEDT from Czech to English.
The sys-tem investigates the possibility of reusing the ex-isting resources (grammar, dictionary) in order todecrease the development time.
It also exploitsthe parallel bilingual corpus of syntactically anno-tated texts, although not as a direct learning ma-terial, more like an additional source of linguis-tic data especially for the dictionary developmentand for the testing of the system.The task is complicated by the fact that thistranslation direction is according to our opinionmore complicated than the reverse one.
There areseveral reasons for this claim; the most prominentone is the free word-order nature of the sourcelanguage.
It generally means that it is very of-ten necessary to make substantial changes of theword order if we want to get a grammatical Eng-lish sentence, while when translating from Eng-lish to Czech the results are more or less gram-matically correct and comprehensible even if wedon?t change the word order at all.Another problem of the Czech-English transla-tion is the insertion of articles.
Czech doesn?t useany articles and it is of course much easier to re-move them from the text (when translating fromEnglish) than to insert a proper article on a properplace (when translating from Czech).Let us now look at the individual modules ofthe new system.4.1 Morphological analysisDue to the limited size of the original morpho-syntactic dictionary of the system it was neces-sary to replace the original module by a new one.The new module of morphological analysis ofCzech (Hajic?, 2001) has been already exploited innumerous applications.
It covers almost the entireCzech language, with very few exceptions (it isestimated that it contains about 800 000 lemmas).It is very reliable, due to a really large coveragethere are almost no unknown words in the wholePCEDT.
The only problem was the incorporationof the new module into the system - the originalmodule of syntactic analysis of Czech from thesystem RUSLAN was very closely bound to a dic-tionary lookup and to the morphological module.The new module also uses a different tagset.1804.2 Bilingual dictionaryThe bilingual dictionary of the system RUSLANcontained approximately 8000 lexical items witha rich lexico-syntactic information.
We have orig-inally assumed that the information contained inthe dictionary might be transformed and reused inthe new system, but this assumption turned to befalse.
Although the information contained in theoriginal bilingual dictionary is extremely valuablefor the module of syntactic analysis of Czech, wehave decided to sacrifice it.
The mere 8000 lex-ical items constitute too small part of the newbilingual dictionary and we have decided to preferhandling the dictionary in a uniform way.At the moment there are no Czech-English dic-tionaries exploitable in an MT system.
The avail-able machine-readable dictionaries built mainlyfor a human user (such as WinGED1 orSvoboda (2001)) suffer from important limita-tions:?
Sometimes, several variants of translationare combined in one entry2.?
No clear annotation of meta-language ispresent, although the entries contain valu-able morphological or syntactic informationto some extent.
(E.g.
valency frames areencoded by means of rather inconsistent ab-breviations in plain text: accession to = vs-toupen??
do or adjudge sb.
to be guilty = uz-nat vinny?m koho.)?
Usually, no morphological information isgiven along the entries, although the mor-phological information can be vital for cor-rectly recognizing an occurrence of the entryin a text.
For example, an expression knihau?c?etn??
can be translated as either an account-ing book or a book of an accountant depend-ing whether the Czech word u?c?etn??
is an ad-jective or a noun.?
No syntactic information is available and noconsistent rules have been adopted by the1http://www.rewin.cz/2Throughout the text, we use the term ENTRY as a syn-onym to translation pair, i.e.
a pair of Czech and Englishexpressions.lexicographers to annotate syntactic proper-ties in plain text (such as putting the head ofthe clause as the first word).From the point of view of structural machinetranslation, the lack of syntactic information inthe translation dictionary is crucial.
In the courseof translation, the input sentence is syntacticallyanalyzed before searching for foreign languageequivalents.
In order to check for presence ofmulti-word expressions in the input, the dictio-nary must encode the structural shape of such en-tries, otherwise the system does not know how totraverse the relevant part of the tree.
Similarly,some expressions require some constraints to bemet (such as an agreement in case or number) inthe input text.
If these constraints are not fulfilled,the proposed foreign language equivalent is notapplicable.The importance of valency (subcategorization)frames and their equivalents should be stressed,too.
In the described system, already the syntac-tic analyzer requires verb and adjective valencyframes in order to allow for specific syntactic con-structions.
In general, knowledge of translationequivalents of valencies is important to preservethe meaning (pr?ij?
?t na ne?jaky?
na?pad = come at anidea, literal translation: come on an idea; choditna housle = attend violin lessons, lit.
walk on vi-olin) or to handle auxiliary words properly (c?ekatna ne?hoko = wait for somebody, lit.
wait on sb.;r??
?ci ne?co = tell something but pr?ejet ne?co = runover something).4.2.1 Dictionary cleanupIn order to handle the problems mentionedabove, we performed an extensive cleanup of thedata from available machine-readable dictionar-ies.
The core steps of the cleanup are as follows:Identifying meta-information.We manually processed all the entries andsearched for frequent words that typically encodesome meta-information, such as sth., st., oneself.We also checked all entries ending with a wordthat is potentially a preposition.
Based on the ex-pression in the other language, we were able torecognize the meaning and identify, whether thesuspicious word expresses a ?slot?
in the expres-sion or whether it is a fixed part of the expression.(E.g.
m?
?t o sobe?
vysoke?
m??ne?n??
= think something181of oneself, only the word oneself encodes a slot,the word something is a fixed part of the expres-sion.
)During this phase, entries encoding severaltranslation variants at once were disassembledinto separate translation pairs, too.Part-of-speech disambiguation.We processed the Czech part of each entry witha morphological analyzer (Hajic?, 2001) and weperformed manual part-of-speech disambiguationof expressions with ambiguity.
It should be notedthat automatic tagging would not provide us withsatisfactory results due to the lack of sententialcontext around the expressions.Adding morphological constraints.Morphological constraints on word entries de-scribe which values of morphological features arevalid for each word of the entry or have to beshared among some words of the entry.
Onceidentified, morphological constraints can be usedto check whether a word group in the input textrepresents an entry or not.
With respect to our fi-nal task (translation from Czech to English), weaim at Czech constraints only.We decided to induce morphological con-straints automatically, based on corpus examplesof the entries.
For each entry, we look up sen-tences that contain all the lemmas of the entryin a close neighborhood (but irrespective to theword order and possible presence of inserted extrawords).
We weight the instances to promote thosewith no intervening words and those with con-nected dependency graph.
The list of weightedinstances is scanned for both unary (such as ?caseis accusative?, ?number is singular?)
and binary(?the case of the first and second words match?
)pre-defined constraints selecting those that aresatisfied by at least 75% of total weight.Most of the expressions with at least 10 corpusinstances obtain a valid set of constraints.
Onlyexpressions containing very common words (sothat the words do appear quite often close togetherwithout actually forming the expression) obtaintoo weak constraints.
For instance, no case andgender agreement constraints are selected for theexpression bohaty?
c?love?k (wealthy man).Adding syntactic information.Syntactic information (dependency relationsamong words in the expression) is needed mainlyduring the analysis of input sentences, thereforewe focused on adding the information to theCzech part of entries first.
For most of the en-tries, it was possible to add the dependency struc-ture manually, based on the part-of-speech patternof the entry.
For instance all the entries contain-ing an adjective followed by a noun get the samestructure: the noun governs the preceeding adjec-tive.
For the remaining entries (with very variedPOS patterns), we employ a corpus-based searchsimilar to the automatic procedure of identifyingmorphological constraints.4.3 Named entity recognition moduleNamed entities (NE) are atomic units such asproper names, temporal expressions (e.g., dates)and quantities (e.g., monetary expressions).
Theyoccur quite often in various texts and carry impor-tant information.
Hence, proper analysis of NEsand their translation has an enormous impact onMT quality (Babych and Hartley, 2004).
In oursystem they are extremely important due to thenature of input texts.
The Wall Street Journal sec-tion of PennTreebank shows much higher densityof named entities than ordinary texts.
Their cor-rect recognition therefore has a tremendous im-pact on the performance of the whole system, es-pecially if the evaluation of the translation qualityis based on golden standard translations.NE translation involves both semantic transla-tion and phonetic transliteration.
Each type of NEis handled in a different way.
For instance, personnames do not undergo semantic translation (onlytransliteration is required), while certain titles andpart of names do (e.g., prvn??
da?ma Laura Bushova??
first lady Laura Bush).
In case of organiza-tions, application of regular transfer rules for NPsseems to be sufficient (e.g., ?Ustav forma?ln??
a ap-likovane?
lingvistiky ?
Institute of formal and ap-plied linguistics), although an idiomatic transla-tion may be probably preferable sometimes.
Withrespect to geographical places we apply bilingualglossaries and a set of regular transfer rules aswell.For NE-recognition, we have developed agrammar based on regular expressions thatprocesses typed feature structures.
The gram-mar framework, similarly as the formally a bitweaker platform SProUT (Bering et al, 2003),182uses finite-state techniques and unification, i.e., agrammar consists of pattern/action rules, wherethe left-hand side is a regular expression overtyped feature structures (TFS) with variables, rep-resenting the recognition pattern, and the right-hand side is a TFS specification of the outputstructure.The NE grammar is based on the experimentdescribed in (Piskorski et al, 2004).
An exampleof a simple rule is:#subst[LEMMA: ministerstvo]$s1+ #top[CASE: gen, PHRASE: $phr]$s2== $s1#ministry[ATTR: $s2,PHRASE: &(?ministerstvo ?
+ phr)](1)The first TFS matches any morphological vari-ant of the word ministerstvo (ministry), followedby a genitive NP.
The variables $s1, $s2 and $phrcreate dynamic value assignments and allow totransport these values to the slots in the outputstructure of type ministry.
The output structurecontains a new attribute called PHRASE with thelemmatized value of the whole phrase.If the input phrase isinformace ministerstva zahranic??
?o cestova?n??
do ohroz?eny?ch oblast??
(2)then the phrase ?ministerstva zahranic????
will berecognized as a NE and handled as an atomic unitin the whole MT process:?????????????
?ministryLEMMA ministerstvoFORM ministerstvaPHRASE ministerstvo zahranic???ATTR????
?substLEMMA zahranic??
?PHRASE zahranic??
?FORM zahranic??
?CASE genNUMBER sgGENDER n????
?CASE genNUMBER sgGENDER n??????????????
(3)Lemmatization of NEs is crucial in the contextof MT.
However, it might pose a serious problemin case of languages with rich inflection due tostructural ambiguities, e.g., internal bracketing ofcomplex noun phrases might be difficult to ana-lyze.
The core of the framework is based on gram-mars that have been developed for the MT system?Ces?
?lko (Hajic?
et al, 2003).4.4 Syntactic analysis of CzechAlthough we have originally assumed that themodule of syntactic analysis of Czech will re-quire only small modifications and its reuse in thenew system was one of the goals of our system,it turned out that this module is one of the mainsources of problems.In the course of testing and debugging of thesystem we had to create a number of new gram-mar rules covering the phenomena which werenot properly accounted for in the original systemdue to the different nature of the original domain.The texts from PCEDT show for example muchhigher number of numerals and numeric expres-sions, some of which require either special gram-matical or transfer rules than operating systemsmanuals from the system RUSLAN.
The com-plexity of input sentences with regard to the num-ber of clauses and their mutual relationship is alsomuch higher.
This, of course, decreases the num-ber of sentences which are completely syntacti-cally analyzed and thus degrades the translationquality.One of the biggest problems of the grammarare the properties of Q-systems.
It was quiteclear since the start of the project that it is im-possible to extract only the knowledge encodedinto the grammar, the grammar rules written inQ-systems are so complicated that rewriting theminto a different (even chart-parser based) formal-ism would actually mean to write a completelynew grammar.
Although we have at our disposala new, modernized and reimplemented version ofa Q-systems compiler and interpreter which over-comes the technical problems of the original ver-sion, the nature of the formalism is of course pre-served.4.5 TransferThe main task of this module is to transform thesyntactic structure (syntactic tree) of the inputCzech sentence into the syntactic structure (tree)of the corresponding English sentence.
The trans-fer module does not handle the translation of reg-ularly translated lexical units, it is handled by thebilingual dictionary in the earlier phases of thesystem.
The transfer concentrates on three maintasks:183?
The transformation of the Czech syntactictree into the English one reflecting the dif-ferences in the word order between both lan-guages.?
The identification and translation of thoseconstructions in Czech, which require spe-cific (irregular) translation into English.?
The insertion of articles (which do not existin Czech) into the target language sentences.The development of this module still continues,the initial tests confirmed that a substantial im-provement can be achieved in the future.4.6 Syntactic synthesis of EnglishThe syntactic synthesis of Russian in RUSLAN isvery closely bound to transfer, therefore we havetried to use as big portion of the grammar as possi-ble, but of course, substantial modifications of thegrammar were necessary.
As well as the work onthe transfer module, also the work on this modulestill continues.4.7 Morphological synthesis of EnglishDue to the simplicity of English morphology thismodule has a very limited role in our system.
Ithandles plurals, 3rd persons and irregular words.5 ConclusionThe problems mentioned in this paper do not al-low to formulate an answer to the crucial ques-tion - does it really pay off to recycle the old sys-tem or not?
The integration of existing parts intoa new system is so complicated that we are stillnot able to perform evaluation of results on textsof a reasonable size.
One way out of this situa-tion would be the combination of the new mod-ules mentioned in this paper with one of the ex-isting stochastic parsers of Czech instead of therule-based grammar.Another possible direction for the future re-search might be the exploitation of two new mod-ules.
The first one will contain partial, but error-free disambiguation of the results of morpholog-ical analysis of Czech, which will substantiallydecrease the morphological ambiguity of individ-ual Czech word forms.
This ambiguity (the aver-age number of morphological tags per word formexceeds four in Czech) also negatively influencesthe performance of the syntactic analysis.The second way how to decrease the ambigu-ity is the exploitation of a special module resolv-ing the lexical ambiguity in those cases when thebilingual dictionary provides more than one lexi-cal equivalent.
This stochastic module would ex-ploit the context and would suggest the best trans-lation.ReferencesB.
Babych and A. Hartley.
2004.
Selecting transla-tion strategies in MT using automatic named en-tity recognition.
In Proceedings of the Ninth EAMTWorkshop, Valetta, Malta.C.
Bering, W. Droz?dz?yn?ski, G. Erbach, C. Guasch,P.
Homola, S. Lehmann, H. Li, H.-U.
Krieger,J.
Piskorski, U. Schaefer, A. Shimada, M. Siegel,F.
Xu, and D. Ziegler-Eisele.
2003.
Corporaand evaluation tools for multilingual named entitygrammar development.Alain Colmerauer.
1969.
Les Systemes Q ou un for-malisme pour analyser et synthetiser des phrases surordinateur.Jan Cur??
?n, Martin ?Cmejrek, Jir???
Havelka, andVladislav Kubon?.
2004.
Building a Parallel Bilin-gual Syntactically Annotated Corpus.
In Proceed-ings of the 1st International Joint Conference onNLP.Jan Hajic?.
2001.
Disambiguation of Rich Inflection- Computational Morphology of Czech, volume I.Prague Karolinum, Charles University Press.
334pp.J.
Hajic?, P. Homola, and V. Kubon?.
2003.
A sim-ple multilingual machine translation system.
In In:Proceedings of the MT Summit IX, New Orleans.Karel Oliva.
1989.
A Parser for Czech Implementedin Systems Q. Explizite Beschreibung der Spracheund automatische Textbearbeitung.J.
Piskorski, P. Homola, M. Marciniak,A.
Mykowiecka, A. Przepio?rkowski, andM.
Wolin?ski.
2004.
Information extractionfor Polish using the SProUT platform.
In Pro-ceedings of the International IIS:IIP WM?04Conference, Zakopane, Poland.Milan Svoboda.
2001.
GNU/FDL English-CzechDictionary.
http://slovnik.zcu.cz/.184
