Trend Survey on Japanese Natural Language Processing Studiesover the Last DecadeMasaki Murata?, Koji Ichii?, Qing Ma?,?, Tamotsu Shirado?,Toshiyuki Kanamaru?,?, and Hitoshi Isahara?
?National Institute of Information and Communications Technology3-5 Hikaridai, Seika-cho, Soraku-gun, Kyoto 619-0289, Japan{murata,qma,shirado,kanamaru,isahara}@nict.go.jp?Port and Airport Research InstituteNagase 3-1-1, Yokosuka, Kanagawa 239-0826, Japan, ichii@pari.go.jp?Ryukoku University, Otsu 520-2194, Japan, qma@math.ryukoku.ac.jp?Kyoto University, Yoshida-Nihonmatsu, Sakyo, Kyoto 606-8501, Japankanamaru@hi.h.kyoto-u.ac.jpAbstractUsing natural language processing, wecarried out a trend survey on Japanesenatural language processing studies thathave been done over the last ten years.We determined the changes in the num-ber of papers published for each re-search organization and on each re-search area as well as the relationshipbetween research organizations and re-search areas.
This paper is usefulfor both recognizing trends in JapaneseNLP and constructing a method of sup-porting trend surveys using NLP.1 IntroductionWe conducted a trend survey on Japanese nat-ural language processing studies that have beendone over the last ten years.
We used biblio-graphic information from journal papers and an-nual conference papers of the Association forNatural Language Processing, Japan (The Asso-ciation for Natural Language Processing, 1995-2004; The Association for Natural Language Pro-cessing, 1994-2003).
Just ten years have passedsince the association was established.
Therefore,we can use the bibliographic information from thepast ten years.
In this study, we investigated whatkinds of studies have been presented in journalpapers and annual conference papers on the Asso-ciation for Natural Language Processing, Japan.We first digitized documents listed in the bibli-ographic information and then extracted variouspieces of useful information for the trend survey.Figure 1: Change in the number of papersWe also examined the changes in the number ofpapers put up by each Japanese research orga-nization and the changes in the number of pa-pers written on specific research areas.
More-over, we examined the relationship between eachJapanese research organization and each researcharea.
This study is useful for trend surveys ofstudies performed by members of in the Associa-tion for Natural Language Processing, Japan.2 Trend survey on NLP research studiesWe show the changes in the number of journalpapers and conference papers in Figure 1.
Jour-nal papers are reviewed, but conference papers arenot reviewed in the association.
In comparing thejournal papers and conference papers, we foundthat the number of conference papers was muchlarger than that of journal papers.
We also foundthat although both types of papers decreased innumber at some point, they both demonstrate anupward trend.Conference papers have a temporal peak in thefourth year and a temporal drop in the sixth year,250Figure 2: Change in the number of journal papersby each research organization (The two numbers inthe parentheses indicate the total number of papersand the average value of published years.
)while journal papers have a peak in the sixth yearand a drop in the eighth year.
The temporal peakand drop of the journal papers occurred just twoyears after the peak and drop of the conferencepapers.
We presume this is because journal papersneed more time for reviewing and publishing, andbecause journal papers are presented later thanconference papers for studies performed at thesame time.3 Trend survey on researchorganizationsNext, we investigated the change in the numberof papers put out by each research organization.The results are represented in contour in Figures2 and 3.
The height in contour (the depth of ablack color) indicates the number of papers.
Wecalculated the average (we call it average value)of the average, the mode, and the median of thepublished years by using the data of the numberof papers performed by each research organiza-tion.
In the figures, each research organization islisted in ascending order of the average value.
Weadded the total number of papers and the averagevalue to each research organization in the figures.Therefore, research organizations that had manypapers in the earlier years are displayed higheron the list, while research organizations that hadFigure 3: Change in the number of conference pa-pers by each research organizationmany papers in the later years are displayed lower.Here, we displayed only research organizationsthat had many total papers.
If a research orga-nization?s name was changed during the ten-yearperiod, we used the name that had the most usageon published papers for displaying it.1From these figures, we can see that ATR andCRL (NICT) put out many journal papers, andNTT, ATR, Tokyo Institute of Technology, CRL,and the University of Tokyo put out many confer-ence papers.
We also found that while NTT andATR had many papers in the earlier years, CRLand the Univ.
of Tokyo had many papers in thelater years.
We can expect that because CRL andthe Univ.
of Tokyo demonstrate an upward ten-dency, their quantity of papers will continue to in-crease in the future.
Using these figures, we cansee very easily in which reference year each re-search organization put out many papers.4 Trend survey on research areasNext, we investigated the change in the numberof papers in each research area.
The results are inFigures 4, 5, and 6.
(Because the volume of datafor conference papers was large, it was dividedinto two figures.).
For journal papers, the height1When we counted the frequency of a research organiza-tion whose name was changed, we used all the names of itincluding old and new names.251Figure 4: Change in the number of journal papersin each research areain contour indicates the number of papers.
Forconference papers, the height in contour indicatesthe base two logarithm of the number of papersadded by one.
Using the same method as that de-scribed above, we calculated the average of theaverage, mode, and median of the years paperswere published using the data of the number ofpapers in each research area.
In the figures, eachresearch area is displayed in ascending order ofthe average value.
We added the total number ofpapers and the average value to each research areain the figures.
Here, we divided the title of eachpaper into words using ChaSen software (Mat-sumoto et al, 1999), and we treaded each word asa research area.
A paper with a particular word inFigure 5: Change in the number of conference pa-pers in each research area (part I)its title was categorized in the research area indi-cated by the word.
Wemanually eliminated wordsthat were not indicative of a research area, for ex-ample, ?teki?
(of) and ?kenkyu?
(study).From these figures, it is clear that the researchareas of ?Japanese?
and ?analysis?
were studiedin an especially large number of papers.
Wealso found that for journal papers, because theresearch areas of ?verb?, ?noun?, ?disambigua-tion?, ?probability?, ?corpus?, and ?polysemic?were displayed higher on the list, these areas werestudied thoroughly in the earlier years.
Likewise,we found that the research areas of ?morphol-ogy?, ?dependency?, ?dialogue?, and ?speech?were studied thoroughly in the sixth year and the252Figure 6: Change in the number of conference pa-pers in each research area (part II)research areas of ?summarization?, ?retrieval?,?translation?
and so on were studied well in thelater years.
Special journal issues on ?summariza-tion?
were published in the sixth and ninth years,so the research area of ?summarization?
was rep-resented in many papers in those years.
We canexpect that because the research area of ?transla-tion?
demonstrates an upward tendency, the num-ber of papers on this topic will continue to in-crease in the future.In terms of conference papers, we found thatthe research areas of ?bilingual?, ?morphology?,?probability?, ?dictionary?, ?statistics?, and so onwere studied well in the earlier years.
In the lowerpart of the figures, such research areas as ?re-Figure 7: Change in the number of conference pa-pers at each research organization in the researcharea of ?translation?Figure 8: Change in the number of conference pa-pers in each research area in the research area of?translation?trieval?, ?summarization?, ?question?
and ?para-phrase?
are found.
Thus, we can see that theseresearch areas were studied thoroughly in recentyears.
We can see very easily in which referenceyears each research area was studied using thesefigures.5 Trend survey using part of dataAlthough we have focused on using all the datain the trend survey so far, we can narrow downthe survey by looking only at a certain part ofthe data.
For example, when we want to exam-253Figure 9: Relationship between research organizations and research areas in journal papers (The nameof each research organization is given a ???
symbol.
)ine a trend survey on translation in more detail,all we have to do is to extract papers on transla-tion and use them for a trend survey.
We carriedout a trend survey on machine translation in thismanner.
We first extracted papers whose titles in-cluded the word ?translation?
and then performedthe same investigations as in Sections 3 and 4.The results are in Figures 7 and 8.
The height incontour (the depth of a color) indicates the num-ber of papers.
From Figure 7, we can see thatNTT had many papers in the earlier years, andATR had many papers in later years.
From Figure7, we can also see that studies on translation of-ten dealt with specific topics such as ?semantics?,?knowledge?
and ?dictionary?
in earlier years and?support?, ?example?, and ?retrieval?
in more re-cent years.6 Relationship between researchorganizations and research topicsFinally, we investigated the various research ar-eas that research organizations studied more fre-quently during the ten-year period.
Here, weshow only the results for journal papers.
We usedthe same method as in the previous sections forextracting research organizations and research ar-eas from the data.
We counted the cooccurrentfrequency of each research organization and eachresearch area.
We then constructed a cross tablein this manner and then performed the dual scal-ing method (Weller and Romney, 1990; Ueda etal., 2003).
The result is depicted in Figure 9.
Thedual scaling method displays the relationship be-tween research organizations and research areas.In Figure 9, ?translation?
appears in the lowerleft quadrant, ?learning?
appears in the lowerright quadrant, ?statistics?
and ?retrieval?
appearin the upper right quadrant, and ?noun?
and ?sen-tence?
appear in the upper left quadrant.
In thevicinity around these words, the research areasand organizations relating to them appear.
For ex-ample, in the upper right quadrant, Hitachi andUniversity of Tokushima appear near ?statistics?and ?retrieval?, which were frequent study topicsfor them.
Similarly, ?summarization?
appears inthe near upper right area of the source origin andis surrounded by JAIST, Toyohashi University ofTechnology, and Tokyo Institute of Technology.,indicating it was a frequent topic of study at thoseinstitutions.
We can easily see which researchtopics were primarily studied by each organiza-tion using this figure.Also in Figure 9, research areas on numeri-cals such as ?probability?
and ?learning?
appear254on the right side.
Therefore, we can interpret thefigure as depicting quantitative research topics onthe right side and qualitative research topics onthe left side.
Research areas using complicatedprocessing such as ?learning?
and ?translation?appear in the lower area and research areas deal-ing with theory such as ?probability?, ?grammar?,?sentence?, and ?noun?
appear in the upper area.Therefore, we can interpret the figure as depict-ing theoretical research topics in the upper areaand research topics using complicated processingin the lower area.7 ConclusionIn this paper, we described a trend survey carriedout on Japanese natural language processing stud-ies done over the last ten years.
We were able toinvestigate trend surveys on research areas veryeasily by treating divided words in titles by a mor-phological analyzer as the indications of researchareas.
We displayed the changes in the number ofpapers put out by each research organization andwritten on specific research topics.
We also dis-played the relationship between research organi-zations and research areas using the dual scalingmethod.
The simple methods we used that are de-scribed here made it possible to show many usefulresults.This paper has the following two significant ef-fects: This paper explained a trend survey onJapanese natural language processing.
Byreading it, we can understand the trends inresearch on Japanese natural language pro-cessing.
For example, we can find outwhich research areas were studied more of-ten and we can see which research organiza-tions were involved in studying natural lan-guage processing.
We can also see which re-search organization studied a particular re-search area most often over the ten-year pe-riod. We used natural language processing tocarry out the trend survey described here.For example, we automatically detected theindication of a research area from wordsused in titles by using a morphological ana-lyzer.
In addition, we displayed words thatwere extracted by the morphological ana-lyzer in several ways to display the resultsof the trend survey effectively.
The methodsused in this paper would be useful in othertrend surveys.In short, this paper is useful for recognizing trendsin Japanese NLP and for constructing methods ofsupporting trend surveys using NLP.In the future, we would like to perform an in-ternational trend survey on natural language pro-cessing using international conference and jour-nal papers such as IJCNLP, ACL, and the Journalof Computational Linguistics.
We would also liketo do trend surveys on other topics such as AI, bi-ology, politics, and sociology.The kinds of investigations we did can easily bealtered to do many other kinds of investigationsas well.
For example, we can use the dual scal-ing method by investigating the relationship be-tween the reference years and the research organi-zations/areas.
We can also use the representationin contour for the relationship between researchorganizations and research areas.
Although weshowed the data in ascending order of the aver-age value of the published years, we could showthe data in different order, for example, the or-der of the total number of papers or the order ofthe location, i.e., showing similar research orga-nizations/areas that are located near each other byclustering research organizations/areas using theircooccurrent words.
We would like to continueto study these kinds of support methods for trendsurveys in the future.ReferencesThe Association for Natural Language Processing.
1994-2003.
Journal of Natural Language Processing.The Association for Natural Language Processing.
1995-2004.
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of The Associ-ation for Natural Language Processing.Yuji Matsumoto, Akira Kitauchi, Tatsuo Yamashita, Yoshi-taka Hirano, Hiroshi Matsuda, and Masayuki Asahara.1999.
Japanese morphological analysis system ChaSenversion 2.0 manual 2nd edition.Taichiro Ueda, Masao Karita, and Kazue Honda.
2003.
Jis-sen Workshop Excel Tettei Katsuyou Tahenryou Kaiseki.Shuuwa System.
(in Japanese).Susan C. Weller and A. Kimball Romney.
1990.
MetricScaling : Correspondence Analysis (Quantitative Appli-cations in the Social Sciences).
SAGE Publications.255
