Automatic recognition of French expletive pronoun occurrencesLaurence DANLOSUniversit?
Paris 72 Place JussieuF-75005 Parisdanlos@linguist.jussieu.frAbstractWe present a tool, called ILIMP, whichtakes as input a raw text in French andproduces as output the same text inwhich every occurrence of the pronounil is tagged either with tag [ANA] foranaphoric or [IMP] for impersonal orexpletive.
This tool is thereforedesigned to distinguish between theanaphoric occurrences of il, for whichan anaphora resolution system has tolook for an antecedent, and the expletiveoccurrences of this pronoun, for which itdoes not make sense to look for anantecedent.
The precision rate for ILIMPis 97,5%.
The few errors are analyzed indetail.
Other tasks using the methoddeveloped for ILIMP are describedbriefly, as well as the use of ILIMP in amodular syntactic analysis system.1 IntroductionA lot of research is dedicated to anaphoraresolution since it is a crucial issue, for example,for Information Retrieval or Text Summarization.Among anaphora, third person pronouns are quitefrequent and therefore widely studied.
Pronoun ilin French, it in English, can be used either"impersonally" ("expletively") (il pleut, it rains)or anaphorically (il est violet, it is purple).Therefore, authors who have developed apronoun resolution system acknowledge that theimpersonal pronoun occurrences must berecognized first, before dealing with anaphoricpronouns.There exists a number of works on theEnglish pronoun it, among them (Lapin, Leass,1994), (Kennedy, Bogurev, 1996) and (Evans2001).
However, no work has been done on theFrench pronoun il1.
This paper presents a tool,ILIMP, which is designed to mark any occurrenceof il with either tag [IMP] or tag [ANA] (forimpersonal or anaphoric use, respectively).
Thistool is rule based (as it is the case for Lapin andLeass' system); it works on raw texts (contrarilyto Lapin and Leass' system which relies on asyntactic analysis).If ILIMP is imperative for an anaphoraresolution system, it is also a tool which can beintegrated into a processing chain within amodular approach to syntactic analysis.
First, itshould be noted that [IMP] and [ANA] can beviewed as an enhancement of the part-of-speechtag set generally used in taggers: the tag?pronoun?
would be replaced by two tags,?anaphoric pronoun?
versus ?impersonal(expletive) pronoun?.
It is known that the richerthe tag set is, the better would the syntacticanalysis based on tagging be (Nasr, 2004).Moreover, it will be shown that tools derivedfrom ILIMP can be used for other linguisticannotations.Section 2 presents the method, which isbased, on linguistic grounds, on a Frenchlinguistic resource, the Lexicon-Grammar, andon computational grounds, on a tool, Unitex.Section 3 presents the realization of ILIMP, the1 Some data on the discrepancies between il and it.
Whilethe English pronoun it can be found in subject and objectpositions, the French pronoun il can be found only in asubject position.
When it is an anaphoric subject pronoun, itcan have a clausal or nominal antecedent, while ananaphoric il can have only a nominal antecedent.
Theanaphoric subject pronoun il translates in English as he or itdepending on the human nature of the nominal antecedent.73difficulties which have been encountered and thechoices made to solve them.
Finally, Section 4presents an evaluation of ILIMP and discusses itspositioning within a modular syntactic analysis.2 Method2.1 Lexicon-GrammarAs for most linguistic phenomena, theimpersonal use of il depends on both lexical andsyntactic conditions.
For example, the adjectiveviolet (purple) can never be the lexical head of animpersonal clause ?
see (1a); the adjectiveprobable (likely) followed by a clausalcomplement anchors an impersonal clause ?
see(1b); and the adjective difficile (difficult) whenfollowed by an infinitival complement introducedby the preposition de (resp.
?)
anchors animpersonal (resp.
personal) clause ?
see (1c) and(1d).
(1)a Il est violet (It is purple)b Il est probable que Fred viendra (It islikely that Fred will come)c Il est difficile de r?soudre ce probl?me (Itis difficult to solve this problem)d Il est difficile ?
r?soudre, ce probl?me (Itis difficult to solve, this problem)Therefore, the French lexicon-grammardeveloped by Maurice Gross and his group(Gross 1994, Lecl?re 2003) is an appropriatelinguistic resource for ILIMP since it describes,for each lexical head of a clause, its syntacticarguments and the possible alternations.
From thelexicon-grammar, I have (manually) extracted allthe items that can be the lexical head of animpersonal clause while recording their syntacticarguments.
See below for a brief overview of thelexical heads that I have recorded.First, one has to distinguish verbal phrases forwhich the subject can only be the impersonalpronoun il, from those whose surface subject isimpersonal il because their deep subject isextraposed in a post-verbal position.Among the former ones, I have compiled 45meteorological verbal phrases (Il neige (Itsnows), Il fait beau (It is a nice day)), 21 verbsfrom Table 17 of (Gross 1975) (Il faut que Fredvienne /du pain) and 38 frozen expressions (Il?tait une fois (once upon a time), quoi qu'il ensoit (whatsoever)).Among the latter ones, one has to distinguishthose with a clausal extraposed subject fromthose with a nominal extraposed subject.Among the former ones, I have compiled 682adjectives (Il est probable que Fred viendra (it islikely that Fred will come)), 88 expressions of theform Pr?p X (Danlos 1980) (Il est de r?gle defaire un cadeau (It is standard practice to make apresent)), and around 250 verbs from (Gross1975) (Il est dit que Fred viendra (It is said thatFred will come)).Among the latter ones with a nominalextraposed subject, some are quite frequent verbssuch as rester or manquer, while others are verbsin the passive form only used in a refined register(Il est venu trois personnes (Three personscame)).2.2 UnitexUnitex 2  is a tool which allows us to writelinguistic patterns (regular expressions orautomata) which are located in the input text,with a possible addition of information when anautomaton is in fact a transducer.
A raw text,when given as input to Unitex, is first pre-processed: it is segmented into sentences, somecompound expressions are recognized as such,and each token is tagged with all the parts ofspeech and inflexion features recorded in itsentry (if any) in the French full-formmorphologic dictionary DELAF (Courtois 2004).There is no disambiguation at all; in other words,the pre-processing in Unitex does not amount toa tagging.For ILIMP, the basic idea is to manually writepatterns (transducers) such as the one presentedin (2) in a simplified linear form.
<?tre.V:3s>targets the third person singular inflected formsof the verb ?tre; <Adj1:ms> targets the masculinesingular adjectives that belong to the class Adj1,which groups together  adjectives behaving asdifficult; <V:K> targets any verb in the infinitiveform.
[IMP] is a tag which is added in the inputtext to the occurrences of il that appear in clauseswhich follow the pattern in (2).
The occurrenceof il in (1c) is thereby marked with tag [IMP].
(2) Il[IMP] <?tre.V:3s> <Adj1:ms> de<V:K>2 Unitex is a GPL open source system, which is similar toIntex (Silberstein 1994).
Documentation and download ofUnitex can be found at the following url: http://ladl.univ-mlv.fr.74Tag [ANA] is the default value: it marks theoccurrences of il that have not been tagged with[IMP].
The occurrence of il in (1d) is therebymarked with tag [ANA].
Nevertheless, the matteris slightly more complex, since there is a thirdtag, [AMB], which is explained in Section 3.2.The output of ILIMP is therefore the input text inwhich each occurrence of il is marked with oneof [IMP], [ANA] and [AMB].After this presentation of the theoreticalprinciples underlying ILIMP, let us examine itsrealization.3 Realization3.1 Left context of the lexical headIn (1c), the left context of the lexical head - thesequence of tokens on the left of difficile(difficult) - is reduced to Il est (it is).
However,sentences such as (3a) or (3b), in which the leftcontext of the lexical head is more complex, arefrequently found in real texts.
In (3a), the leftcontext includes (from right to left) the adverbtr?s (very) which modifies the adjective, the verbpara?tre (seem) in the infinitive form which is a?light verb?
for adjectives, the pronoun lui (tohim) and finally the modal verb peut (may)preceded by il (it).
In (3b), it includes the lightverb s'av?rer conjugated in a compound tense(s'est av?r?)
and negated (ne s'est pas av?r?).
(3)a Il peut lui para?tre tr?s difficile der?soudre ce probl?me (It may seem verydifficult to him to solve this problem)b Il ne s'est pas av?r?
difficile de r?soudrece probl?me (It didn't turn out to be difficultto solve this problem)As a consequence, for each type of the lexicalheads (adjectival, verbal) that anchors animpersonal clause, all the elements that mayoccur in the left-context have to be determinedand integrated in patterns.
This raises no realdifficulty, though it is time consuming 3 .
Incontrast, we are faced with tough ambiguitieswhen coming to the right context, as we aregoing to show it.In the rest of the paper, patterns are presentedwith simplified left-contexts - as in (2) - for thesake of readability.3 ILIMP can be re-used in a tool which aims at identifying thelexical head of a clause.3.2 Right context of the lexical headSyntactic ambiguitiesThere is a number of syntactic ambiguities in theright context since, as is well known, a sequenceof parts of speech may receive several syntacticanalyses.
As an illustration, consider the patternin (4a), in which the symbol ?
matches any non-empty sequence of tokens.
This patterncorresponds to two syntactic analyses: (4b) inwhich il is impersonal and the infinitival phrasede <V:K> is subcategorized by difficile, and (4c)in which il is anaphoric and the infinitival phraseis part of an NP.
These two analyses areillustrated in  (4d) and (4e) respectively - thesesentences differ only in the adverb ici/juste.
(4)a Il est difficile pour ?
de <V:K>b Il[IMP] est difficile pour [?
]NP de<V:K>c Il[ANA] est difficile pour [?
de<V:K>]NPd Il est difficile pour [les ?tudiants quiviennent ici]NP de r?soudre ce probl?me (It isdifficult for the students who came here tosolve this problem)e Il est difficile pour [les ?tudiants quiviennent juste de r?soudre ce probl?me]NP (Itis difficult for the students who have justsolved this problem)To deal with syntactic ambiguities, one solutionis to state explicitly that a pattern such as (4a) isambiguous by means of the tag [AMB] which isto be interpreted as ?ILIMP cannot determinewhether il is anaphoric or impersonal?.
Howeverthis tag may be of no help for later processing,especially if it is used too often.
Another solutionis to rely upon heuristics based on frequencies.For example, sentences which follow the patternin (4a) are more frequently analyzed as (4b) thanas (4c).
Therefore il in (4a) can be tagged as[IMP] despite some rare errors.
I have adoptedthis latter solution.
The heuristics I use are eitherbased on my linguistic knowledge and intuitionand/or on quantitative studies on corpora.Lexical ambiguitiesIn about ten cases, a lexical item may anchorboth impersonal and personal clauses with thesame subcategorization frame, e.g.
the adjective75certain (certain) with a clausal complement asillustrated in sentence (5a).
Since both readingsof (5a) seem equally frequent, il in the pattern(5b) is tagged as [AMB].
(5)a Il est certain que Fred viendra (He/it iscertain that Fred will come)b Il[AMB] est certain que S4Other difficultiesA last type of difficulties is found withimpersonal clauses with an extraposed nominalsubject.
See the pair in (6a-b) in which the onlydifference is du/de, whereas (6a) is impersonaland (6b) personal.
Along the same lines, see thepair in (6c-d) in which the only difference isvalise/priorit?, whereas (6c) is impersonal and(6d) personal.
(6)a Il manque du poivre (dans cette maison)(There is pepper missing (in this house))b Il manque de poivre (ce r?ti de porc) (Itis lacking pepper (this roasting pork))c Il reste la valise du chef (dans la voiture)(There remains the boss' suitcase (in the car))d Il reste la priorit?
du chef (le ch?mage)(It remains the boss' priority (unemployment))I have tried to set up heuristics to deal with thesesubtle differences.
However, I did not attempt(perilous) enterprises such as using the feature [?abstract] for nouns.In conclusion, ILIMP relies on a number ofheuristics so as to avoid a too frequent use of[AMB].
These heuristics may lead to errors,which are going to be examined.4 EvaluationI have worked on the French newspaper LeMonde.
More precisely, I have worked on acorpus of 3.782.613 tokens extracted from thecorpus Le Monde'94.
Unitex segments thiscorpus into 71.293 sentences.
It contains 13.611occurrences of token il, and 20.549 occurrencesof third person subject pronouns, i.e.
il, elle, ils,elles (he, she, it, they).
So il is the most frequentthird person subject pronoun, with a rate of 66%.4 S is the symbol for the pattern aiming at representing asentence.
This pattern is made up of a non-empty sequenceof tokens which includes a finite verb.From this corpus, 8544 sentences whichinclude at least one occurrence of il have beenextracted, and they add up to around 10.000occurrences of il (a complex sentence withembedded clauses may include severaloccurrences of il).
These sentences have beengiven as input to ILIMP and the results - the tags[IMP], [ANA] and [AMB]- have been manuallyevaluated.
The evaluators were asked to followonly their intuition.The result of this evaluation is the following:the precision rate is 97,5\%.
We are going toexamine the 2,5\% errors, putting aside [AMB].4.1 Errors from morphological ambiguitiesErrors coming from morphological ambiguitiesare (of course) counted as the other errors comingfrom the realization of ILIMP (which areexamined in the next sections).
Recall (Section2.2) that the pre-processing in Unitex does notinclude any disambiguation: it is not a tagger.
Toillustrate the consequences of this point, considerthe pattern in (7a) in which <V6:W> targetsverbs of Table 6 in the past participle, e.g.
choisi(chosen), and S a sequence of tokens whichincludes a finite verb (see note 3).
This patternaims at targeting impersonal clauses such as (7b).Nevertheless, it also targets (7c), in which thepronoun il is thus wrongly tagged as [IMP].
Thiserror comes from the fact that the dictionaryDELAF rightly includes two entries for the wordm?tres - finite form of the verb m?trer and pluralform of the noun m?tre - and Unitex does notmake any distinction between these two entries.Therefore, the sequence le b?ton pour soutenirune toiture de 170 m?tres is interpreted asincluding a finite verb, and hence follows patternS.
(7)a Il[IMP]  <avoir.V:3s> ?t?
<V6:W>(ADV) que Sb Il a ?t?
choisi que les s?ances se feraientle matin vers 9h (It has been chosen thatsessions would take place around 9 am)c Il a ?t?
choisi plut?t que le b?ton poursoutenir une toiture de 170 m?tres (It has beenchosen rather than concrete to support a 170meter roof)Any tagger should tag the word m?tres in (7c) asa noun.
Taking as input not a raw text pre-processed by Unitex but the output of a tagger76would avoid the error on il in (7c).
HoweverILIMP would be dependent of the errors of atagger.
What is best?
More generally, assumingthat a syntactic parser relies upon a modularapproach in which a set of modules - tagger,named entity recognition module, ILIMP,chunker, etc.
?
collaborates, the question of theorder in which the modules should be chainedarises.Let us have this question open, and comeback to the errors of ILIMP taking as input a rawtext.4.2 il wrongly tagged as [IMP] instead of[ANA]: 0,3\%Very few errors: 33.
This is surprising whenconsidering the frequent appeal to ?brutal?heuristics.
As an illustration, il in the pattern Il ya is systematically tagged as [IMP].
Thisheuristic gives two errors, as in (8a), but around1500 right tags, as in (8b).
(8)a Il revient de Rimini.
Il y a donn?
lar?plique ?
Madeleine.
(He is back fromRimini.
He gave there the cue to Madeleine.
)b Il y a beaucoup de trafic ?
8h (There is alot of traffic at 8 am)4.3 il wrongly tagged as [ANA] instead of[IMP]: 2\%More errors.
This type of errors comes from thefact that [ANA] is the default value.
These errorsare thus directly imputable to gaps in the patternsmaking up ILIMP.Among these gaps, there are first thosecoming from my laziness/tiredness/lack of time.For example, I have introduced quotation marksat some places in patterns but not everywhere.Hence, il is wrongly tagged as [ANA] in (9a) justbecause of the quotation marks.
Similarly, Iwrote some patterns for cases with subjectinversion, but I did not take time to write all ofthem, hence the error in (9b).
(9)a Il[ANA]  ?tait ?m?me souhaitable?
quecelui-ci soit issu ?
(It was ?even desirable?that this one be from ?
)b Est-il [ANA] inconcevable ?
(Is itinconceivable that ?
)Secondly, there are lexical gaps.
In particular,some adjectives which can be the head ofimpersonal clauses are missing: the list of 682adjectives I have compiled needs to becompleted.Thirdly, there are syntactic gaps.
In particular,I have considered any extraposed clausal subjectas obligatory, whereas there exist cases wheresuch a subject is not realized, for example, inphrases introduced by comme (as), (10).
I havecreated a pattern to take into account suchphrases but it does not handle all of them.
(10)  comme il a ?t?
annonc?
(as it has beensaidFinally, gaps are found for impersonal clauseswith a nominal extraposed subject.
In particular, Ihave written no pattern for verbs in the passiveform used in a refined register, see section 2.1.To conclude this section on the occurrences ofil wrongly tagged as [ANA], I would like to addthat though the first three types of errors can beavoided with a little effort, this is not the case forthe last type.4.4 Other errors: 0,2\%Some errors come from the fact that the word ilis not used as a subject pronoun but as part of anamed entity in a foreign language, see (11)5.
(10) Elle a publi?
cette revue appel?e Il[ANA]Caff?
(She published this magazine called IlCaff?
)4.5 Evaluation on other corporaAn evaluation of ILIMP has also been realized onFrench literary texts written in the XIXthcentury.
It concerns 1858 occurrences of il.
Theprecision rate falls compared to the journalisticgenre: it goes from 97,5\% to 96,8\%.
This fallcomes, on the one hand, from impersonalexpressions which are not used anymore, (11), onthe other hand, from a high number of sentenceswith subject inversion, as in (9b) in Section 4.3.Recall that I have not handled subject inversionsystematically.
(11) Mais peut-?tre ?tait-il un peu matin pourorganiser un  concert (But maybe was it alittle bit morning to organize a concert)The percentage of impersonal il in literary textsincreases compared to Le Monde corpus: it goesfrom 42\% to 49,8\%.
In a more general way, I5 This kind of error would be avoided if ILIMP took as input atext in which the named entities are recognized.77expect important differences on the percentage ofil with an impersonal use according to the genreof corpora 6 , though I don't expect significantdifferences on the precision rate of ILIMP(especially if the three first types of errorsdescribed in Section 4.2 are corrected).
This isbecause the list of lexical heads for impersonalclauses is closed and stable.5 Conclusion and future workThe method used in ILIMP to locate theoccurrences of il in an impersonal use, whichgives good results, can be used for otherlanguages and for other tasks.
For English, ILIMPcan be straightforwardly adapted to disambiguatethe impersonal versus anaphoric use of it as asubject pronoun.
It has already been said (Section3.1) that a tool derived from ILIMP can bedesigned to identify the lexical head of a clause.Another tool can be designed to enhance amodule in charge of the computation of syntacticfunctions, thanks to the notion of ?deepextraposed subject?, which is relevant forimpersonal clauses.
Finally, the method I haveproposed to disambiguate an ambiguous and veryfrequent word as il can be used for otherambiguous frequent functional words such as the(French) word que (which can be acomplementizer, a relative pronoun, or an adverbin discontinuous restrictive or comparativeexpressions) (Jacques 2005).The goal or ILIMP or related ?little?
tools isobviously modest and restricted when comparedto the goal of a robust parser which would givefor any sentence THE correct and completeanalysis, with a precision rate closed to 98\%.However, it has to be acknowledged that such anideal parser does not exist, neither for French norfor English, despite many years of effort.
So itcould be a wise strategy to follow the sayingwhich goes Many a little makes a mickle.
If thisstrategy is followed, research effort is neededfirst to develop such ?little?
tools, second todetermine how to order them in an efficientsequential processing chain.6  Le Monde contains a number of long papers whichdescribe in detail the life and work of famous individuals.These papers, when they describe the life of a man, link upnumerous occurrences of anaphoric il (he) referring to theman concerned.
One may expect that the percentage ofimpersonal il increases in newspaper handling only news oreconomy.ReferencesCOURTOIS B.
(2004), Dictionnaires ?lectroniquesDELAF, Syntax, Lexis and Lexicon-Grammar.Papers in honour of Maurice Gross , Lingvistic?Investigationes Supplementa 24,Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins, pp.
113?133.DANLOS L. (1980), Repr?sentation d'informationslinguistiques: les constructions N ?tre Pr?p X.Th?se de troisi?me cycle, Paris: Universit?
Paris 7.EVANS R. (2001), Applying MachineLearning toward an AutomaticClassification of it, Literary and LinguisticComputing, Vol.
16-1 pp.
45-57.GROSS M. (1975), M?thode en syntaxe, Paris,Hermann.GROSS M. (1993), Les phrases fig?es en fran?ais,L'information grammaticale 59, Paris, pp.
36-41.GROSS M. (1994), Constructing Lexicon-Grammars,Computational Approaches to the Lexicon, Oxford,Oxford  University Press, pp.
213-263.JACQUES M.P.
(2005), Que : la valse des ?tiquettes,Actes de TALN 05, Dourdan.KENNEDY C., BOGURAEV B.
(1996), Anaphora forEveyone; Pronominal Anaphora Resolution withouta Parser, in COLING'96, Copenhagen.LAPIN S., LEASS H.J.
(1994), An algorithm forpronominal anaphora resolution, ComputationalLinguistics, 20(4), pp.
535-561.LECL?RE .
C. (2003), The lexicon-grammar ofFrench verbs: a syntactic database, In Proceedingsof the First International Conference on LinguisticInformatics, Kawaguchi Y. et ali (eds.
), UBLI,Tokyo University of Foreign Studies.NASR A.
(2004), Analyse syntaxique probabiliste pourgrammaires de d?pendances extraitesautomatiquement, Habilitation ?
diriger desrecherches, Universit?
Paris 7SILBERSTEIN M. (1994), INTEX: a corpusprocessing system, in COLING'94, Kyoto, Japon,vol.
1, pp.
579-583.78
