Automated Text SummarizationChin-Yew LINInformation Sciences InstituteUniversity of Southern California4676 Admiralty Way, Marina del Rey, CA 90292-6695cyl@isi.eduAbstractAfter lying dormant for over two decades,automated text summarization has experienced atremendous resurgence of interest in the pastfew years.
Research is being conducted in China,Europe, Japan, and North America, and industryhas brought to market more than 30summarization systems; most recently, a seriesof large-scale text summarization evaluations,Document Understanding Conference (DUC)and Text Summarization Challenge (TSC) havebeen held yearly in the United States and Japan.In this tutorial, we will review the state of the artin automatic summarization, and will discussand critically evaluate current approaches to theproblem.
We will first outline the major types ofsummary: indicative vs. informative; abstract vs.extract; generic vs. query-oriented; backgroundvs.
just-the-news; single-document vs. multi-document; and so on.
We will describe thetypical decomposition of summarization intothree stages, and explain in detail the majorapproaches to each stage.
For topicidentification, we will outline techniques basedon stereotypical text structure, cue words, high-frequency indicator phrases, intratextconnectivity, and discourse structure centrality.For topic fusion, we will outline some ideas thathave been proposed, including conceptgeneralization and semantic association.
Forsummary generation, we will describe theproblems of sentence planning to achieveinformation compaction.How good is a summary?
Evaluation is adifficult issue.
We will describe varioussuggested measures and discuss the adequacy ofcurrent evaluation methods including manualevaluation procedures used in DUC, the factoidand pyramid method reference summarycreation procedures and fully automaticevaluation method such as ROUGE.
Therecently developed automatic evaluation methodbased on basic element (BE) will also becovered.Throughout, we will highlight the strengths andweaknesses of statistical and symbolic/linguistictechniques in implementing efficientsummarization systems.
We will discuss ways inwhich summarization systems can interact withand/or complement natural language generation,discourse parsing, information extraction, andinformation retrieval systems.Finally, we will present a set of open problemsthat we perceive as being crucial for immediateprogress in automatic summarization.BiographyChin-Yew Lin is a senior research scientist atthe Information Sciences Institute of theUniversity of Southern California.
He was thechief architect of SUMMARIST and NeATS.He also developed the automatic summarizationevaluation package ROUGE that have been usedin the DUC evaluations.
He has co-chairedseveral text summarization and questionanswering workshops in ACL, NAACL,COLING.274
