Obtaining Japanese Lexical Units for Semantic Framesfrom Berkeley FrameNet Using a Bilingual CorpusToshiyuki KanamaruKyoto UniversityYoshida Nihonmatsu-cho, Sakyo-kuKyoto, 606-8501, Japankanamaru@hi.h.kyoto-u.ac.jpMasaki Murata Kow Kuroda Hitoshi IsaharaNational Institute of Information andCommunications Technology (NICT)3-5 Hikaridai, Seikacho, SorakugunKyoto, 619-0289, Japan{murata,kuroda,isahara}@nict.go.jpAbstractAn attempt was made to semi-automatically ob-tain ?lexical units?
(LUs) for Japanese fromthe English LUs defined in the semantic framedatabase provided by Berkeley FrameNet (BFN)using an English-Japanese bilingual corpus.This task was a prerequisite to building a com-plete database of semantic frames for Japanese.In the task, a Japanese word is first translatedinto an English word or phrase, E. E is oneof the lexical units that evoked a particular se-mantic frame, F , in the BFN database.
Whenother lexical units of F are translated back intoJapanese, this defines a candidate set of F forthe lexical units of F in Japanese.
The via-bility of the proposed method was tested on aJapanese verb (X-ga Y -wo) osou (roughly mean-ing ?X attack(s) Y ,?
?X hit(s) Y ,?
?X surprise(s)Y ?
in English, showing that it is a relatively pol-ysemous word).
The resulting translation wascompared to semantic descriptions provided byIPAL and Nihongo Goi-Taikei (A Japanese Lex-icon), two well-known language resources forJapanese, and also by the Frame Oriented Con-cept Analysis of Language (FOCAL).
The com-parison revealed that FOCAL, BFN, Goi Taikei,and IPAL provided finer-grained descriptions inthis specific order.1 IntroductionMaking use of deep semantics in information pro-cessing is one of the major problems confrontingtoday?s NLP community.
More and more NLPresearchers are realizing that they need seman-tic/lexical resources that go beyond such ones asWordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) that only specify hier-archical semantic relationships.
One of the cru-cial reasons for this is that raw linguistic dataembodies semantic associations that are difficultto capture in terms of such hierarchical relation-ships, one of which is the so-called ?semanticfield?
effect, a class of associative relationshipsamong words (or concepts).
To deal with theseissues, deeper semantics are needed with descrip-tions that incorporate ontological inferences.
Letus assume that X attacked Y is to be interpreted.1This is a complex situation.
In interpreting Theman attacked a bank, it may be necessary to spec-ify (by inference) that the subject used a weapon(e.g., a gun) and his purpose was to obtain money(illegally), whereas in interpreting The wolf at-tacked a flock of sheep, it may be necessary tospecify that the subject never used a weapon andits purpose was to eat one or two individual sheep(rather than the entire flock) after killing them.Relevant inferences are clearly situation-based, or?case-based?
in the sense of Case-based Reason-ing (Kolodner, 1993), and difficult to specify interms of the lexical semantic descriptions avail-able in resources such as WordNet (Fellbaum,1998) which don?t specify associative relation-ships among concepts, including the relationshipsbetween ROBBER (e.g., a man) and WAREHOUSEOF VALUABLES (e.g., a bank, museum, jewelryshop), and the one between a PREDATOR (e.g., awolf) and its PREY (e.g., sheep, rabbit).
Thus, theNLP community has a critical need for resourcesthat encode this kind of information.Along with PropBank (Kingsbury and Palmer,2002; Ellsworth et al, 2004), Berkeley FrameNet1One of the anonymous reviewers told us that it was un-clear how ontological inferences of this sort are related toBFN?s frame definitions.
The question boils down to thequestion of definition, i.e., what kind of information we needto define semantic frames to encode, and as we will see later,this is exactly the question addressed by FOCAL claimingthat BFN frames are too coarse-grained to be used as an ef-fective knowledge-base for ontological inferences.11(BFN) (Baker et al, 1998) is an ongoing researchproject that is attempting to meet the demand forresources that encode deeper lexical semantics byproviding a semantic frame lexicon (sometimescalled the ?FrameNet?)
and a corpus annotatedfor semantic information encoded in terms of se-mantic frames.Thus far, BFN has produced ?a lexical databasethat currently contains more than 8,900 lexicalunits, more than 6,100 of which are fully anno-tated, in more than 625 semantic frames, exem-plified in more than 135,000 annotated sentences?
(cited from the FrameNet web page).
Otherongoing projects, i.e., the German FrameNetor ?SALSA?
(Erk et al, 2003), the SpanishFrameNet (Subirats and Petruck, 2003), and theJapanese FrameNet (Ohara et al, 2003), are try-ing to build lexical resources that are compatiblewith the BFN, but for Japanese at least, no datahas been released in a usable form, except for afew annotation examples for verbs of motion.In sum, no useful resource exists for frame-based description/analysis of Japanese.
This isone of the reasons that we attempted the task inthis paper, along with our efforts to assess the use-fulness of the database provided by BFN.The anonymous reviewers of our paper pointedout that there have been some similar projectsand other methodologies that have tried to trans-late BFN into other languages automatically, suchas BiFrameNet (Chen and Fung, 2004) and Ro-mance FrameNet2, and that it would have beenbetter to include the comparison against them.BiFrameNet presented an automatic approachto constructing a bilingual semantic network us-ing the Chinese HowNet, which is a Chineseontology.
While it is an interesting approach,we have not compared their results with ours,mainly because they seem to have used differ-ent resources and had somewhat different goals,along with the space consideration.No papers are released, let alne being avail-able to us, related to the Romance FrameNetproject for the time being.
We couldn?t helpputting a comparison with it on hold.32http://ic2.epfl.ch/?pallotta/rfn/3One of the anonymous reviewers criticized us for failingto mention Romance FrameNet project in our paper; it is justunreasonable.
The project was announced on June 1 on the2 Proposed ProcedureWe used a bilingual corpus (Utiyama and Isahara,2003) to examine which semantic frames of BFNcontained LUs relevant to the Japanese verb osou.JFN, for example, used a mono-lingual corpus toconstruct the semantic frames.
In cases like this,the construction might be inefficient because theyhave to construct all semantic frames by them-selves.
But this affects on the reliability of theframes identified and described.
This risk of arbi-trary description can be reduced by using a bilin-gual corpus, if it is of high-quality.2.1 Identifying English equivalents of ?osou?We chose Japanese-English alignments from thebilingual corpus in which the Japanese text con-tained osou, i.e., the target verb.
We obtained 135alignments from the corpus.The bilingual corpus is consists of two subcor-pra.
One subcorpus is made of one-to-one align-ments.
Another is of one-to-many alignments.
Inthe latter, one Japanese sentence is aligned withseveral English sentences.In the first case, it was straightforward to spec-ify an English word or phrase that translated thetarget verb, osou.
In the second case, however, itis not.
So, we singled out an English sentence thatcorresponds to a Japanese sentence that containedosou.
In this process, the identification of osou?sEnglish translations was done manually.After this procedure, the following five verbswere identified as English translations of osou:assault, attack, hit, pound, and strike4.2.2 Identifying relevant semantic framesBased on these five verbs, we extracted seman-tic frames using FrameSQL (Sato, 2003).
Seman-tic frames with LUs that included any of the fiveverbs were chosen from the BFN semantic framedatabase (referred to here as BFN).Corpora Mailing List, just one week before the submissiondeadline.
This means that we had little chance to know aboutthe project unless we were ?insiders.
?4There were a few other verbs or constructions thatserved as English translations of osou in the alignments: forexample, besiege, engulf, feel pain, occur, hurt, kill, rob,shoot, stab, suffer, wreak on were used as its translations.But we filtered out those less frequent items (whose fre-quency is less than 3) for purposes of simplicity.12Based on Frame Semantics (Fillmore, 1982),BFN posits that a semantic frame is an organi-zation of ?semantic roles,?
which BFN terms as?Frame Elements?
(FEs).
Usually, LUs are in-stantiations or lexical realizations of FEs.
Thus,an LU in a frame, F , is a word, or phrase, that, ac-cording to the assumptions of Frame Semantics,?evokes?
frame F .
The definition of the ?Attack?frame in the BFN database is used in Figure 1toillustrate the procedure.
As indicated, assault, at-tack and strike are listed as LUs of the ?Attack?frame.After manually examining all the semanticframes thus obtained, the five BFN frames wererecognized as relevant to the various senses of thetarget word osou: 1.
?Attack?
; 2.
?Cause harm?3.
?Experience bodily harm?
4.
?Cause impact?5.
?Impact?Semantic frames in the BFN database are sup-posedly related to one another.
There are vari-ous relationships, some of which are sometimesencoded by establishing explicit ?frame-to-framerelations?
(such as ?is used?
relation) betweentwo frames.
Using this information, we obtainedthe following relationships between the fiveframes: 1.
?Attack?
; 2.
?Cause harm?, is used:?Experience bodily harm?
; 3.
?Cause impact?,uses: ?Impact?2.3 Identifying relevant frame-evoking LUsin EnglishEach semantic frame has a number of FEs, each ofwhich has lexical realizations, which called LUs.In the work reported here, only verbal LUs wereselected as relevant from the English LUs madeavailable in the BFN database.5 Admittedly, there5 On this point, we recognize a certain kind of discrep-ancy between the theory and the practice in the BFN frame-work.
If a LU is, according to its defintion, a lexical realiza-tion of a certain FE of a certain frame, more nominals shouldbe identified and listed as LUs.
For example, in Jack or-dered a hamburger at McDonald?s, hamburger is a noun thatevokes the ?Cooking creation?
frame.
While the ?Selling?frame is evoked by order.v, this means that, according thedefinition of LU, hamburger.n needs to be identified as anLU of the ?Cooking creation?
frame; more specifically, it isan LU that instantiates the ?Food?
FE of the frame.
It is ob-vious that the QUALIA STRUCTURE (Pustejovsky, 1995) ofhamburger.n contains information of this sort.
We suspectthat this aspect of ?frame-evocation by nominals?
does notseem to be properly recognized and coded, and that BFN?scurrent practice of mostly identifying predicates as LUs issomewhat misleading, if we could say so, because it con-are a few nominal LUs in certain frames in theBFN, but we ignored them because they foundthem to be less relevant to our specific task.After identifying all the relevant LUs for thethree frames above, we obtained all the Englishverbs that translated the senses of the target wordosou identified in terms of Frame Semantics.For example, the relevant LUs for the ?Attack?frame are the following verbs: ambush, assault,attack, charge, invade, jump, lay, set, storm, andstrikeAs was the case with the ?Attack?
frame, weextracted the relevant LUs for the ?Cause harm?and ?Cause impact?
frames.
We manuallymerged the extracted LUs, and obtained 93 ver-bal LUs relevant to the Japanese verb osou.2.4 Obtaining LU candidates for JapaneseFEsTable 1: 15 most frequently occurring nounsNoun Freq.jiken (incident) 39boukou (criminal assault) 32josei (woman) 28taiho (arrest) 23hikoku (accused, defendant) 21yougi (charge, suspicion) 20kougeki (attack) 20shounen (boy) 14tero (terrorism) 14shougai (injury) 13higai (damage, harm) 12kenkei (prefectural police department) 12manshon (apartment) 12butai (military unit) 10fujo (girl and woman) 10Using the bilingual corpus again, we gatheredalignments that had English texts containing theEnglish LUs specified in the way previously de-scribed.
We obtained 262 alignments.
This proce-dure defined a set of Japanese sentences contain-ing Japanese words or phrases that were naturaltranslations of the LUs in the BFN.ceals the fact that there can be, and actually are, many kindsof frame-evoking effects.
BFN has been concentrating onidentifying LUs for ?governors,?
not LUs for the entire set ofFEs, for whatever reason.
In this respect, it is crucial to notethat not all frame-evokers are frame-governors: hamburger.nclearly evokes the ?Cooking creation?
frame, but there thenoun does not govern the ?Cooking creation?
frame.
Ar-guably, it is unreasonable and even gratuitous to posit the?Hamburger?
frame to make hamburger.n a governor.13AttackDefinition:An Assailant physically attacks a Victim (which is usually but not always sentient), causing or intending to cause the Victimphysical injury.
The Weapon used by the Assailant may also be mentioned, in addition to the usual Place, Time, Purpose, andReason.
Sometimes a location is used metonymically to stand for the Assailant or the Victim, and in such cases the Place FEwill be annotated on a second FE layer.As soon as he stepped out of the bar he was SET upon by four men in ski-masks.Is he INVADING Iraq just to cover other shortcomings?Then Jon-O?s forces AMBUSHED them on the left flank from a line of low hills.FEs:Core:Assailant [Asl] The person (or other self-directed entity) that is attempting physical harm to the Victim.The mysterious fighter ATTACKED the guardsmen with a sabre.Victim [Vic] This FE is the being or entity that is injured by the Assailant?s attack.The mysterious fighter ATTACKED the guardsmen with a sabre.Lexical Unitsambush.n, ambush.v, assail.v, assault.n, assault.v, attack.n, attack.v, charge.n, charge.v, fall.v, incursion.n, invade.v, inva-sion.n, jump.v, lay ((into)).v, offensive.n, onset.n, onslaught.n, raid.v, set.v, storm.
v, strike.n, strike.vCreated by infinity on Fri Nov 22 14:05:22 PST 2002Figure 1: BFN definition of ?Attack?
frame (partial)It should be noted, however, that there is no es-tablished method of recognizing these units au-tomatically; they are part of a text without beingmarked as such.
To solve this problem, we hy-pothesized that their statistical properties in thetexts could be used to pick them up; i.e., we as-sumed that these LUs were relatively specific tothese types of texts and would appear at higherfrequencies than usual in the collected text.We collected nouns with higher frequencies un-der this assumption using a KH Coder 6.The results were sorted according to the partsof speech.
The high-frequency nouns thus ob-tained are listed in Table 1.This provided little information about the se-mantic classification of the nouns because therewas no indication of the LUs that they instan-tiated.
Semantic groupings are latent, how-ever.
This meant that we were able to ?clus-ter?
the nouns based on certain generic proper-ties to obtain an initial approximation of thesegroupings.
We used a tool called msort (stand-ing for ?meaning sort?)
(Murata et al, 2001) toestablish generic, domain-independent semantic6The KH Coder is a free analyzer that uses a combinationof ChaSen (Matsumoto et al, 1999) and MySQL.
This isfreely available at http://khc.sourceforge.net/.groupings.78Nouns occurring more than three times wereobtained, as shown below:9human dansei (man), danshi (boy), josei (woman), fujo(woman), joshi (girl), danji (young boy), joji (younggirl), youjo (infant girl), shounen (boy), .
.
.organization kokka (country), gaikoku (foreign country),kokusai (international), sekai (world), .
.
.product yakubutsu (drug), manshon (apartment), heya(room), keesu (case), naifu (knife), shoujuu (rifle), .
.
.7msort sorts a given set of nouns based on their encod-ings in a Japanese thesaurus Bunrui Goi-hyou (National Lan-guage Research Institute, 1964).8One of the anonymous reviewers commented on this?domain-independence?
with a critical tone, questioning thevalidity of the proposed method.
This evaluation is clearlybased on a misunderstanding: the semantic association, orconceptual dependence, between the ?Assailant?
and the?Victim?
FEs is already encoded when we collected onlysentences whose main verbs are osou (in Japanese texts) orits translations (in English texts).
What we have done withmsort is to get subgroupings given a larger semantic group-ing of ?harm-causing?
at a more generic level.
Based onour coding experience, we are sure that subclassfication of agiven semantic class is based on ?semantic types?
rather thansemantic roles.
To give proper subgroupings of the eventsthat the ?Attack?
frame is relevant, it is necessary to knowwhether an ?Assailant?
is a human ([+human, +animate,.
.
. ])
or an animal ([?human, +animate, .
.
.
]), or whethera ?Victim?
is a human ([+human, +animate, .
.
. ])
or ananimal ([?human, +animate, .
.
.
]).
If we insist that suchsubclassifications in terms of semantic types into messy de-tails are irrelevant, we are committing what we meant by?mere generalizations for generalizations,?
failing to recog-nized what is really needed in NLP tasks.9The listings ending with ?.
.
.
?
are partial.14body part itai (body), soshiki (organization)plant dansei (man), josei (woman), soshiki (tissue)space genba (field), chiiki (region), mokuteki (purpose),hokubu (northern area), shinai (city center)amount gruupu (group)relation jijou (circumstances), keesu (case), jitai (matter),jiken (incident), ryakushiki (informality), kankei (rela-tionship), mokuteki (purpose), genkou (current), .
.
.activity jisatsu (suicide), satsugai (slaying), shougai (in-jury), juushou (serious injuries), ishiki (conscious-ness), utagai (doubt), yougi (suspicion), sousa (inves-tigation), sousaku (search), shirabe (investigation), .
.
.2.5 Identifying LUs for Japanese FEsBased on the generic semantic groupings pro-duced by msort, we classified nouns into sub-classes by intution, so that they corresponded tothe FEs of the BFN frames in the following way:Recall that a semantic frame is a collection ofsemantic roles, or FEs.
In the case of ?Attack?,the frame has two ?core?
FEs, i.e., ?Assailant?and ?Victim?, and some other ?peripheral?
or?noncore?
FEs such as ?Place?, ?Time?, and?Weapon?.
Thus, ?Attack?
denotes a situationin which an agent recognizable as an ?Assailant?causes (or tries to cause) some ?Harm?
or ?Injury?to someone or a group of people recognizable as a?Victim?
at some ?Place?
and ?Time?, sometimesusing an item recognizable as a ?Weapon?.This means that all we need to do is to clas-sify the nouns in Table 1 into semantic classessuch as ?Assailant?, ?Victim?, ?Place?, ?Time?, or?Weapon?, with appropriate subclasses where hu-man assailants are distinguished from nonhumanassailants.10 The groupings provided by msortturned out to be useful for this purpose.11Using this procedure, the nouns obtained on afrequency-basis for ?Attack?
were classified intothe two core FEs, as follows:10It is important to note that the target data selection pro-cedure of BFN is biased.
For example, they put aside a num-ber of problematic cases like metaphorical expressions, andthis is clearly reflected in the current frame definitions.
Werepeated noticed that metaphorically extended senses of aword were systematically dropped in the current release ofBFN.
For illustration, the sense of attack.n in heart attackis not described in BFN.
Descriptive ?gaps?
of this sort areclearly undesirable; some specific kinds of mapping prob-lems between English LUs provided in BFN and JapaneseLUs arise from this.11We were sometimes unable to identify an FE for a nounclass based solely on the output of msort.
In these cases, welooked at its usage in the corpus to determine its FE.?
?Assailant?
: dansei (man), goutou (burglary/burglar,robbery/robber), heishi (soldier), hikoku (accused per-son), butai (military unit), kyoudan (religious group)?
?Victim?
: danshi (boy), josei (woman), fujo (girl andwoman), joshi (girl), danji (young boy), joji (younggirl), youjo (infant girl), shounen (boy), shoujo (girl),aite (opponent), nihonjin (Japanese), .
.
.2.6 Advantages of proposed methodUsing msort turned out to be more beneficialthan anticipated when it came to selecting non-core FEs.
msort helped to determine noncoreFEs correctly to a certain extent.
The ?Attack?frame, for example, includes noncore FEs such as?Place?, ?Time?, ?Purpose?, and ?Reason?
in ad-dition to its core FEs, ?Assailant?
and ?Victim?.msort automatically groups naifu (knife), raifuru(rifle), and pisutoru (pistol) into the ?product?category, which corresponds to the ?Weapon?
FE.Similarly, it automatically groups chiiki (Regionalsite), hokubu (northern area), and shinai (Innercity) into the ?location?
category, which corre-sponds to ?Place?.
Thus, part of the FE assign-ment task can be done automatically using msort.The procedure also produced some interestingresults.
For example, the proposed method auto-matically specifies a set of lexical items (or lex-ical units) that clearly have the frame-evocationeffect but that are not properly identified as frameelements of a semantic frame in BFN, either interms of core FEs or peripheral FEs (= noncoreFEs).
The semantic groupings that were thus au-tomatically identified are enumerated below:1.
Names denoting an act(ion) of N (N suru (or sareru))(?
(make) do N?
): ranbou (violence), boukou (crimi-nal assault), bouryoku (violence), jikkou (execution),shuugeki (assault), kougeki (attack)2.
Names denoting a state of affairs N (V shita + N) (Nthat S V ): satsugai (slaying), shougai (injury), goutou(burglary/burglar, robbery/robber), satsujin (murder),sasshou (killing and wounding)3.
Result ((Y ni) V shite, N wo owaseta) (?did V , and in-flicted N to Y ): juushou (serious injuries)4.
Parts of the compound words: kyoushuu (assaultforce) (a part of ?assault?
force)5.
LUs of crime-related frames resulting from ?Attack?
:utagai (doubt), yougi (charge, suspicion), sousa (in-vestigation), sousaku (search), shirabe (investigation),kentou (investigation), hanketsu (judgement), .
.
.A second look at the lexical items in 1 aboveconfirmed that most of these words or phrases can15be seen as LUs that realize, in Japanese, some ofthe FEs of BFN?s ?Attack?
frame.12 As sets oflexical items were not classified automatically, wehad to determine all classifications manually.2.7 Overall resultsWhen the procedure was applied to ?Attack?,?Cause harm?
and ?Cause impact?, the followingJapanese LUs for their major FEs were specified:1.
Core FEs of ?Attack?:?Assailant?
: dansei (man), goutou (burglary/burglar, rob-bery/robber), heishi (soldier), hikoku (accusedperson), .
.
.?Victim?
: danshi (boy), josei (woman), fujo (girls andwomen), joshi (girl), danji (young boy), .
.
.2.
Noncore FEs of ?Attack?:?Place?
: genba (field), chiiki (region), hokubu (northernpart), shinai (city center)?Weapon?
: naifu (knife), shoujuu (rifle), tanjuu (pistol)3.
Core FEs of ?Cause harm?
:?Body part?
: senaka (back)4.
Core FEs of ?Cause impact?:?Impactee?
: doru (dollar), shijou (market), ginkou (bank),shokoku (some countries)?Impactor?
: saigai (disaster), jishin (earthquake), fukyou(depression), dageki (damage)3 Comparison with other resourcesTo evaluate our results, we compared them withother Japanese resources and methods for anal-ysis, i.e., IPAL (IPA, 1987) and Nihongo GoiTaikei (a Japanese lexicon) (hereafter called GoiTaikei) (Ikehara et al, 1997), which are widelyused lexical resources, and semantic frame anal-ysis by FOCAL (Nakamoto et al, to appear;Kuroda et al, 2004), which is a recent frame-work being developed with the aim of provid-ing BFN-style semantic annotation and analy-sis for Japanese independent of the JapaneseFrameNet (Ohara et al, 2003).3.1 Comparison with Goi Taikei descriptionsGoi Taikei contains detailed information on thepredicate-argument structure classified accordingto usage.
Its semantic description of osou is givenbelow:12For the reason of this argument, see note 5 above.
(1) 20 zokusei henka (property change) (motion)N1 ga N2 wo osouN1 strike N2N1 (1270 shimpai (concern) 1262 kanashimi (sorrow)2056 sainann (disaster) 2359 kishou (atmosphericphenomena) 1000 tyuushou (abstract)) N2 (2 gutai(object))(2) 23 shintai dousa (physical motion) (motion)N1 ga N2 wo osouN1 attack N2N1 (3 shutai (subject) 535 doubutsu (animal) 2416 by-ouki (disease)) N2 (2 gutai (object))(3) 23 shintai dousa (physical motion)31 kanjou dousa (affective motion) (motion)N1 ga N2 no fui wo osouN1 surprise N2N1 (4 hito (man) 1001 tyuushoubutsu (abstruc-tion/abstraction?)
1235 koto (event)) N2 (4 hito(man))The word meanings were classified from theproperties of osou for nouns related to surfacecases of the verb.
When we compared the framesin BFN and the description provided by GoiTaikei, and examined how the BFN frames corre-sponded to the Goi Taikei definitions, we obtainedthe following relationships:Table 2: BFN/Goi-Taikei correspondencesAttack (2) 23 shintai dousa (physical motion)Cause harm (1) 20 zokusei henka (property change)Cause impact (1) 20 zokusei henka (property change)First, we did not obtain the meaning ?An unex-pected event occurred?
like (3) in the Goi Taikei.It was difficult to extract words whose meaningsdescribed a manner of action, such as fui wo (bysurprise) using this method.
It was also insuffi-cient to extract only co-occurring nouns from sen-tences related to verbs.
As might be expected,there was a close relationship between (2) and the?Attack?
frame.
However, we were unable to find?Assailant?s such as sickness in the BFN FEs.
Fi-nally, the ?Cause impact?
frame and (1) were verysimilar, except that assailant in (1) includes feel-ings such as worry or sadness.There was a good correlation between the se-mantic frame constructed from BFN and the onefrom Goi Taikei.
With this method, however, wemet difficulties in extracting frames that did notappear on the surface, such as ?manner of action?.163.2 Comparison with IPAL descriptionsWe compared the frames we obtained with thedefinitions from the IPA Lexicon (IPA, 1987).
Be-low is an excerpt from the description of osoufrom IPAL:?
Caption: osou001001 Semantic definition: An unde-sirable thing unexpectedly occurs to someone.Sentence valence pattern: N1 -ga N2 -woNoun phrase 1: bouto (rioter), goutou (burglary),kuma (bear), sentouki (fighter plane), boufuu (windstorm), jishinn (earthquake), ekibyou (plague), keizaikiki (economic crisis)Noun phrase 2: tabibito (traveler), fune (ship), nin-gen (human)/kokudo (national land), kuni (country),kouban (police box)Example 1: Boufuu ga fune wo osotta.
(A stormy windstruck a ship.)?
Caption: osou001002Semantic definition: Undesirable feelings and physio-logical phenomena happening suddenly.Sentence pattern: N1 -ga N2 -woNoun phrase 1: takamaru fuann (increased anxiety),shi no kyoufu (fear of death), iyana kimochi (unpleas-ant feelings)/ hageshii hiroukan (acute tiredness), ne-muke (drowsiness)Noun phrase 2: kare (he)Example 1: Nemuke ga totsuzen kare wo osotta.
(Drowsiness fell upon him suddenly.
)Example 2: Kanojo ha fuann ni osowareta.
(She be-came uneasy suddenly.
)The IPAL description of osou identifies its twosenses13 We compared the BFN frames and theIPAL descriptions (in terms of predicate frames)and obtained the following correspondences:Table 3: BFN/IPAL correspondencesAttack osou001001Cause harm osou001001Cause impact osou001001All of the frames obtained from BFN seemed tobe classified into the first meaning in IPAL, e.g.,there were no BFN frames in which ?Assailant?recognized ?sickness.?
With IPAL definitions,it was difficult to distinguish the difference be-tween The bear attacked the traveler and *An eco-nomic crisis attacked the traveler, the latter ofwhich sounds unnatural and quite odd, whereaswe can do it with BFN definitions: the former13A term, ?predicate frame,?
is used in the IPAL to char-acterize semantic properties of a predicate.
While the ideaof predicate frames is somewhat related to semantic frames,predicate frames are not defined as semantic frames in thesense of Frame Semantics/BFN.can be classified as an expression in the ?Attack?frame, whereas the latter can not.
The reasonfor this is probably that BFN frames successfullyspecify the semantic interdependence between the?Assailant?
and ?Victim?
roles, whereas such in-terdependece is not encoded in the IPAL descrip-tions.
We believe this is one of the strengths offrame-based semantic description.BFN definitions are not detailed enough, how-ever.
They face problems when we try to ac-count for the constrast between The shark at-tacked the swimmer and ?
*The shark attacked thebank, for example.
The latter sentences doesn?tmakes sense unless it is reinterpreted some way,while it is straightforward to interpret the first sen-tence against a predatory situation.In interpreting the second, there is a clear con-flict or ?competition?
between two strong read-ings: one interpretation (reading 1) is against thesituation of ?Predation?, where the shark is inter-preted as a ?Predator?
and the bank as a ?Prey?.Another (reading 2) is against the situation of?Bank Robbery?, where the shark is interpretedas a ?Bank Robber?
and the bank as a ?Warehouseof Valuables?
(or simply as a ?Bank?).
If reading2 wins out, an implicit ?type coercion?
(Puste-jovsky, 1995) takes place to the shark so that thereferent of the shark is switched to a human whoacts as a ?Robber?
with a nickname ?shark.?
Ifreading 1 wins out, by contrast, another kind ofimplicit type coercion takes place to the bank sothat the referent of the bank is switched to an ani-mal (an instance of fish, dolphin, or whale) whichacts as a ?Prey?, being called ?the bank?
for someunclear reasons.
The preference of the reinter-pretation for reading 2 over the other can be ac-counted for if we are allowed to say that to findsomeone being called ?shark?
is more likely thanto find some animal being called ?bank.
?What this suggests is this: pieces of semanticinformation that would account for ?selectionalrestrictions?
of this sort are not specified in theBFN definitions (yet).
Therefore, it can be saidthat the frames constructed from BFN do notclassify all meanings of osou in the same wayIPAL does not, but these frames specify somefiner-grained, selectional aspects of osou?s lexicalmeaning than the IPAL description.
As we willsee in the next section, this is one of the strong17motivations that a framework called FOCAL hastried to extend the BFN.3.3 Comparison with FOCAL descriptionsFOCAL is a theoretical framework for semanticanalysis and annotation.
Its development has beenstrongly influenced by BFN, but it also tries toextend BFN?s scope of semantic analysis to thenext stage.In the case of X-ga Y-wo osou, FOCAL recog-nizes 15 frames in total, listed in Table 4, specify-ing their hierarchical organization.14These frames are identified and classified basedon the semantic co-variations between ?HarmCause(r))?
X , a special case of ?Cause(r)?,and ?Harm Experiencer?
Y , a special case of?Experiencer?.
This is important to note that FO-CAL puts more emphasis on the specification ofthe semantic co-variation between X and Y interms of semantic features because they are cru-cial characteristics of a semantic frame, which arenot captured in the Goi Taikei and IPAL descrip-tions, and are not clearly encoded even in the BFNdescription.In FOCAL, frames are defined as idealizedmodels of situations such as Robbery, Predation,assuming that human understanding is situation-based.
The descriptive task of FOCAL, then, isto recognize situations and give adequately de-tailed descriptions to them.
Given R is a set ofsituation-specific roles {r1, .
.
.
, rn}, which arecalled semantic roles in BFN.
Semantic framesare useful only if they serves as specifications ofthe co-variations among such Rs.For example, F06, as a subclass of the ?Attack?class event is defined as follows:Definition of F06: Attack(R) = Attack(Predator(X),Prey(Y ))= Hunt(Hunter(X), Target(Y ), Purpose(Z))where Z = Eat(Eater(X), Food(Y ), Purpose(Z?
));where Z?
= Satisfy (r1(Z), Hunger)There seems to be no English noun that names r1.These are the frames that account for more orless all possible readings of X-ga Y -wo osou.
The14 Space limitation disallowed us to show that the 15frames thus recognized are nearly optimal to exhaustivelyspecify all the situations against which the senses of osou aredetermined.
This was confirmed by multivariate analyses onpsychological experiments (Nakamoto et al, to appear).
Weregret this because the result would surely have answered thequestion from one of the anonymous reviewers.Table 4: 15 FOCAL frames with groups G1?G5G1 F01 harm to Y caused by conflict betweengroups X and YG1 F02 harm to Y caused by X?s invasionG1 F03 harm to Y caused by X?s robberyG1 F04 harm to Y caused by X?s violenceG1 F05 harm to Y caused by X?s rapingG2 F06 harm to Y caused by X?s preying attackG2 F07 harm to Y caused by X?s nonpreying attack(e.g., X?s defense)G3 F08 harm to Y due to an unexpected accident XG3 F09 harm to Y caused by a natural phenomenonX (on a smaller scale, e.g., gust)G3 F10 harm to Y caused by a natural phenomenonX (on a larger scale, e.g., earthquake, flood)G3 F11 harm to Y caused by a natural phenomenonX (on a larger scale, e.g., spread of anepidemic)G4 F12 harm to Y caused by a social phenomenon XG5 F13 harm to Y caused by a disease X(nontemporary, e.g., cancer)G5 F14 harm to Y caused by a disease symptom X(temporary, e.g., heart attack)G5 F15 harm to Y caused by a bad feeling X(temporary, e.g., drowsiness)validity of this claim was confirmed through psy-chological experiments, and reported in (Kurodaet al, 2004; Nakamoto et al, to appear).
TheBFN identifies 3 frames relevant to the semanticsof osou, while FOCAL uses a total of 15 framesto determine the range of situations against whichpeople understand the sentences whose main verbis osou.The 3 BFN frames have been compared withthe 15 frames below to assess how well they cor-respond to one another:Table 5: BFN/FOCAL correspondencesAttack Part of G1 F01?F05Cause harm [UNCLEAR] [UNCLEAR]Cause impact [UNCLEAR] [UNCLEAR][UNCLEAR] G5 F13?F15This comparison revealed several differences.First, FOCAL specifies situations that the?Attack?
frame applies to in much greater de-tail, although its descriptions are based on se-mantic frames like BFN?s descriptions are.
Thisis mainly because FOCAL identifies frames interms of conceivable differences in the ?pur-poses,?
or ?intended effects?
of the ?Harm18Cause(r)?15, of which BFN?s ?Assailant?
is a spe-cial case.
This suggests that BFN frames can befurther elaborated according to the subclassifica-tion of ?Assailant?
in terms of its purpose.16The same is conversely true of ?Cause harm?and ?Cause impact?
frames.
These BFN framesneed to be generalized so that they include nonhu-man, nonintentional agents, which is not done inthe current BFN.
Better matches would be foundif the ?Cause harm?
and ?Cause impact?
frameswere further classified according to the propertiesof the ?Harm causer?
and ?Impactor?
just as in the?Attack?
frame.While FOCAL explicitly groups the F01?F05frames into G1 and combines it with anothergroup, G2, to yield a more general semantic class{G1, G2}, it is not clear whether BFN capturesthis hybrid class, since the hierarchical relation-ships among frames are not sufficiently specified.In fact, the comparison with FOCAL revealedthat BFN does not classify the ?Assailant?
types inas much detail as FOCAL does.
According to FO-CAL?s assumptions, it is ?Assailant?
?s ?Purpose?
(including the ?null?
value) that defines the differ-ences in otherwise similar situations.
To identifysuch subtle differences is exactly what humansare very good at and computers are not.
Speci-fication of information of this kind is one of theserious demands arising from many of the NLPtasks.To conclude, we noted that the granularityof the semantic descriptions provided by BFN,IPAL, Goi Taikei, and FOCAL had the followinghierarchy: FOCAL > BFN ?
Goi Taikei > IPALThis suggests that, while BFN is clearly usefulfor a variety of purposes, its semantic descrip-tions are not detailed enough, particularly whendealing with the polysemy of relatively frequentwords like osou in Japanese or hit in English.While our result is only suggestive at best, let15This is not the same as BFN?s ?Harm causer?
role,which is much more specific than ?Harm Cause(r)?
in FO-CAL?s sense.16The question of ?where to stop,?
addressed by one ofthe anonymous reviewers, would have been answered if wehad enough space to show that those 15 frames/situations arenearly optimal to account for all the semantic classificationsreflected in selectional restrictions, as explained in note 14.Clearly, we do not need to identify all semantically possiblesubclassifications; we just need to identify psychologicallyreal subclassifications.us make a brief comment on some methodologi-cal aspects of the BFN framework.Overall, BFN definitions for semantic framesare much more oriented or even ?biased?
for de-scriptions of activities intended and caused byhuman, volitional agents.
In fact, BFN took amethodological decision not to include metaphor-ical uses and other ?problematic?
uses of wordsfor ease of lexicon-building, thereby sacrificingits descriptive range, causing a problem with bi-ased data coverage, as far as we could see.
Inthe case of osou, for example, there were clearlymany examples in which harm is not caused bya human, i.e., cases described by FOCAL frameclusters G2: F06?F07, G3: F08?F11, G4: F12,and G5: F13?F15.
Therefore, as far as we areconcerned with the viability of the frame-baseddescription of situations that can be expressed us-ing osou in Japanese, the current status of theBFN database is only partially successful in that itsuccessfully captures the class of situations spec-ified by G1.4 ConclusionWe proposed a new translation-like method usingBFN to find Japanese LUs that corresponded toEnglish LUs in BFN semantic frames.
We eval-uated a technique of identifying Japanese LUsbased on English LUs using a bilingual corpus.We evaluated the results by comparing them withother Japanese language resources and analyses,IPAL, Goi Taikei, and FOCAL.
The comparisonrevealed that FOCAL, BFN, Goi Taikei, and IPALprovided finer-grained descriptions in this specificorder.Our method allowed us to easily find JapaneseLUs that corresponded to LUs in BFN seman-tics and at the same level of granularity as BFN.Even if all the relevant sentenceswere not manu-ally examined when the semantic frame was con-structed, we were able to collect several membersof FEs.
Our method also automatically specifieda set of lexical titems that clearly had the frame-evocation effect but that were not properly iden-tified as Frame Elements of a semantic frame inBFN.There are several problems still remaining thatneed to be addressed.
Because the bilingual cor-pus used was a newspaper corpus, the target se-19mantic domains were limited.
There is thereforea possibility that we failed to identify certain se-mantic frames.
We plan to do further experimentsusing a greater number of bilingual corpora witha wider domain coverage.In the comparison of the analyses by BFN andby FOCAL, only one target verb osou is used inthis work.
Clearly, this is insufficient and our re-sult is only suggestive at best.
To draw a realis-tic conclusion, we will definitely need to examinemore target words and make the comparison morereliable.ReferencesCollin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and John B.Lowe.
1998.
The Berkeley FrameNet project.
InProceedings of the COLING-ACL ?98, Montreal;Canada.Benfung Chen and Pascale Fung.
2004.
Biframenet:Bilingual frame semantics resource construction bycross-lingual induction.
In Proceedings of the 20thInternational Conference on Computational Lin-guistics (COLING 2004).Michael Ellsworth, Katrin Erk, Paul Kingsbury, andSebastian Pado?.
2004.
PropBank, SALSA, andFrameNet: How design determines product.
InProceedings of the LREC 2004 Workshop on Build-ing Lexical Resources from Semantically AnnotatedCorpora, Lisbon.Katrin Erk, Andrea Kowalski, Sebastian Pado?, andManfred Pinkal.
2003.
Towards a resource forlexical semantics: A large German corpus with ex-tensive semantic annotation.
In Proceedings of theACL-03.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: An Elec-tronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press.Charles J. Fillmore.
1982.
Frame semantics.
In Lin-guistic Society of Korea, editor, Linguistics in theMorning Calm, pages 111?137, Seoul.
Hanshin.Satoru Ikehara, Mahahiro Miyazaki, Satoshi Shirai,Akio Yokoo, Hiromi Nakaiwa, Kentaro Ogura,Yoshifumi Ooyama, and Yoshihiko Hayashi.
1997.Goi-Taikei: A Japanese Lexicon.
Iwanami Shoten,Tokyo.
(in Japanese, 5 volumes/CDROM).IPA, 1987.
IPA Lexicon of the Japanese Language forComputers: Basic Verbs.
Information-TechnologyPromotion Agency.
(in Japanese).Paul Kingsbury and Martha Palmer.
2002.
From Tree-Bank to PropBank.
In Proceedings of the 3rd In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC-2002).Kolodner, Janet.
L. 2004.
Case-Based Reasoning.Morgan Kauffman.Kow Kuroda, Keiko Nakamoto, Toshiyuki Kanamaru,Masahiro Tatsuoka, and Hajime Nozawa.
2004.A scope of concept analysis based on ?seman-tic frames?
: Berkeley FrameNet and Beyond.
InConference Handbook of the 5th Meeting of TheJapanese Cognitive Linguistics Association, pages133?153.
(in Japanese).Yuji Matsumoto, Akira Kitauchi, Tatsuo Yamashita,Yoshitaka Hirano, Hiroshi Matsuda, KazumaTakaoka, and Masayuki Asahara, 1999.
JapaneseMorphological Analysis System ChaSen version2.2.1.
NAIST Technical Report NAIST-IS-TR.
(inJapanese).Masaki Murata, Kyoko Kanzaki, Kiyotaka Uchimoto,Qing Ma, and Hitoshi Isahara.
2001.
Meaning sort?
three examples: dictionary construction, taggedcorpus construction, and information presentationsystem ?.
In Alexander Gelbukh, editor, Compu-tational Linguistics and Intelligent Text Processing,Second International Conference, CICLing 2001,Mexico City, February 2001 Proceedings, pages305?318.
Springer Publisher.Keiko Nakamoto, Kow Kuroda, and Hajime Nozawa.to appear.
Defining the feature rating task asa(nother) powerful method to explore sentencemeanings: With a special interest with how they arementally represented.
In Japanese Journal of Cog-nitive Psychology.
(in Japanese).National Language Research Institute.
1964.
BunruiGoihyo (Word List by Semantic Principles).
SyueiShuppan.
(in Japanese).Pustejovsky, James.
1995.
The Generative Lexicon.MIT Press.Kyoko Hirose Ohara, Seiko Fujii, Hiroaki Saito, ShunIshizaki, Toshio Ohori, and Ryoko Suzuki.
2003.The Japanese FrameNet project: A preliminary re-port.
In Proceedings of Pacific Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 249?254.Hiroaki Sato.
2003.
FrameSQL: A software tool forFrameNet.
In ASIALEX ?03 Tokyo Proceedings,pages 251?258.
Asian Association of Lexicogra-phy.Carlos Subirats and Miriam R. L. Petruck.
2003.
Sur-prise: Spanish FrameNet.
Presentation at Work-shop on Frame Semantics, International Congressof Linguists.
July 29, 2003, Prague, Czech Repub-lic.Masao Utiyama and Hitoshi Isahara.
2003.
Reliablemeasures for aligning Japanese-English news arti-cles and sentences.
In Proceedings of the AnnualMeeting of the ACL-03, pages 72?79.
ACL-2003.20
