Automatic Slide Generation Based on DiscourseStructure AnalysisTomohide Shibata and Sadao KurohashiGraduate School of Information Science and Technology, University of Tokyo,7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, JapanAbstract.
In this paper, we describe a method of automatically gener-ating summary slides from a text.
The slides are generated by itemizingtopic/non-topic parts that are extracted from the text based on syntac-tic/case analysis.
The indentations of the items are controlled accordingto the discourse structure, which is detected by cue phrases, identifica-tion of word chain and similarity between two sentences.
Our experimentsdemonstrates generated slides are far easier to read in comparison withoriginal texts.1 IntroductionA presentation with slides is so effective to pass information to people in manysituations, such as an academic conference or business.
Although some softwares,such as PowerPoint and Keynote, help us with making presentation slides, it isstill cumbersome to make them from scratch.Some researchers have developed a method of (semi-)automatically makingpresentation slides from a technical paper or a news article [1, 2].
However, inputtexts of their systems were supposed to be documents whose structure is anno-tated: in [1], TEX source and in [2], semantically annotated documents by GDAtag.In this paper, we propose a method of automatically generating summaryslides from a raw text.
An example of a text is shown in Figure 1 and an exampleslide that is generated from the text is shown in Figure 2 (the translated slideis shown in Figure 3).
In a slide, topic/non-topic parts that are extracted fromthe original text are itemized and each item is indented based on the discoursestructure of the text.
In particular, a big contrast/list structure in the text is animportant clue for producing an easy-to-read slide.The outline of our procedure is as follows:1.
Inputsentences are processedbyJapanese morphologicalanalyzer,JUMAN[3],and are parsed by Japanese syntactic analyzer, KNP [4].2.
Each sentence is segmented into clauses and the discourse structure of thetext is analyzed.3.
Topic/non-topic parts are extracted from the text.4.
Summary slides are generated by displaying the topic/non-topic parts basedon the discourse structure.R.
Dale et al (Eds.
): IJCNLP 2005, LNAI 3651, pp.
754?766, 2005.c?
Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2005{shibata, kuro}@kc.t.u-tokyo.ac.jpFig.
1.
An example of a textFig.
2.
An example of a slideOur method not only helps us with making presentation slides but also createsa full-automatic presentation.
That is to say, input texts are spoken via text-to-speech engine while presenting automatically generated summary slides.
Wecall this system ?text-to-presentation?, as illustrated in Figure 4.
For the inputof text-to-speech engine, written texts are not appropriate, because unnaturalspeech might be produced due to difficult words or long compound nouns, whichare unsuitable for speech synthesis.
Therefore, written texts are automaticallyconverted into spoken texts based on paraphrasing technique [5, 6] and then areinputted into speech synthesis.The rest of this paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 introduces how toanalyze discourse structure.
Section 3 explains how to extract topic/non-topicparts and Section 4 introduces how to generate a slide.
Next, in Section 5, wedescribe our implemented system and report the evaluation.
Finally, in Section6, we discuss the related work, and in Section 7, we conclude this paper.Automatic Slide Generation Based on Discourse Structure Analysis 755Railway Recovery (1)?
Interruption of the three train services, JR Kobe-line, Hankyu Express Kobe-line and Hanshin Electric Railway?
450,000 people per day, 120,000 people per hour at the peak of rush,had no transportation?
Interruption sections in West Japan Railway Toukaidou Line, Sannyou Line,Hankyu Takarazuka, Imazu and Itami Line and Kobe-Electric Arima-line?
after the earthquake occurred?
transportation by alternate-bus was provided?
from January 23th, when National Route 2 was opened?
transportation by alternate-bus between Osaka and Kobe was pro-vided?
from January 28th?
the alternate-bus priority lane was set up and smooth transporta-tion was maintained.Fig.
3.
An example of a slide (in English)      	   	 		   	 	Fig.
4.
Overview of text-to-presentation system2 Discourse Structure Analysis2.1 Model of Discourse StructureWe consider a clause and a sentence as a discourse unit and take into accountthe following two types of coherence relations:1. coherence relations between two clauses in a sentence (four types)list, contrast, additive, adversative2.
coherence relations between two sentences (eight types)list, contrast, topic-chaining, topic-dominant chaining, elaboration,reason, cause, exampleAn example of discourse structure is shown in Figure 5.
The arrows meanconnection of clauses/sentences and the labels on the arrows mean coherencerelation.In our model, as an initial state, the discourse structure has a starting node.A sentence connecting to the starting node has the coherence relation ?start?,which means this sentence is the beginning of a new topic.756 T. Shibata and S. Kurohashi      	    	         	    	            	     	                       	     	                       Fig.
5.
The model of discourse structure  	        Fig.
6.
Segmenting a sentence into discourse unitsIn the subsequent subsections, we describe how to analyze the discourse struc-ture.
This method is based on [7].
We start with the starting node and build adiscourse tree in an incremental fashion.
An input sentence is first parsed andsegmented into clauses, and relations between clauses in a sentence are analyzed.Then, the sentence is connected to the most related preceding sentence and thecoherence relation between the sentences is determined.2.2 Segmenting a Sentence into Discourse UnitsFirst, an input sentence is parsed by KNP and segmented into discourse units,which are the basic units of not only discourse structure but also extraction oftopic/non-topic parts described in Section 3.Japanese is a head-final language and a predicate is placed at the end of theclause.
Therefore, each predicate in a sentence can be a discourse-unit boundary.We determine whether the predicate is regarded as a discourse-unit boundaryaccording to the strength of the clause, which is classified into three levels de-pending on the subsuming relation of the scope1.
The strength of a clause canbe detected by clause-end patterns.1 The level A has the narrowest scope and the level C has the broadest scope.Automatic Slide Generation Based on Discourse Structure Analysis 757Level C (e.g., ...ga(although)) always dividedLevel B (e.g., ...te(and)) divided in case that the clause and its parent clauseare similar2 or the length of both the clause and its parent clause exceeds athreshold3.Level A (e.g., ...nagara(while)) not divided2.3 Detection of Relation etween Clauses in a SentenceAfter a sentence is segmented into discourse units, we analyze relations betweenclauses.
First, the parent of each clause is simply determined based on syntacticstructure of a sentence.
Next, the coherence relation of two clauses is determinedas follows:?
Two clauses are similar?
contrast/list?
Two clauses are not similar?
additive (...te(and),renyou-form)?
adversative (...ga,keredomo(although))Additive or adversative is recognized by the clause-end patterns.
The method ofcalculating the similarity between two clauses and how to recognize contrast/listrelation are described in detail below.Calculation of similarity between two clauses The parser calculates sim-ilarity between two arbitrary word-strings to detect coordinate structures in asentence.
Similarity between clauses is calculated as follows.
First, the similarityvalue between two words is calculated according to exact matching, matchingof their parts of speech, and their closeness in a thesaurus dictionary [8].
Then,the similarity value between two word-strings is calculated by the dynamic pro-gramming method: combining the similarity values between words in the twoword-strings [4].If two clauses have a certain similarity, the coherence relation between clausescan be two cases: list or contrast.
In case of list relation, a thing/person has twodifferent properties, as shown in (1-a), and, in case of contrast relation, twosimilar but different things have similar properties, as shown in (1-b).
(1) a. John had a beer and eat martini.
(list)b. John went to Paris and Mary went to London.
(contrast)The judgment whether the coherence relation is contrast or list is performedaccording to similarity between topics of two clauses: if the similarity exceedsa threshold, the coherence relation is determined to contrast relation, otherwiselist relation.
In Japanese, topics are often marked with wa.
In the example (2),2 The parser calculates similarity between two clauses.
The method of calculatingsimilarity is described in the next subsection.3 This threshold depends on a width of a slide and a font size..758 T. Shibata and S. KurohashiBTable 1.
Examples of rules for discourse structure analysisCoherencerelation ScoreApplicablerangePatterns fora connected sentencePatterns fora new sentencestart 10 * * sate(then)?
?
?list 5 1 * soshite(and)?
?
?list 30 1 daiichini(first)?
?
?
dainini(second)?
?
?contrast 30 1 * mushiro(rather than)?
?
?elaboration 15 1 * tokuni(especially)?
?
?reason 30 1 * ?
?
?karada(because)(2) Daitaibus riyousya-waAlternate-bus user number-TOPtousho-wafirst-TOP1-nichi atariper day3 kara 5 mannin-deattagafrom 30 to 50 thousands people3-gatsusue made-wathe end of March-until1-nichiper dayyaku 20-mannin-gaabout 20 thousands peopleriyoushitaused(The number of alternate-bus users per day was from 30 to 50 thousandsat first and was about 20 thousands until the end of March.
)2.4As a new sentence comes in, by checking surface information, we find a connectedsentence and the coherence relation between them by calculating reliable scoresfor all relations by the following three points: (1) cue phrases, (2) word/phrasechain, and (3) similarity between two sentences.
As a final result, we choose theconnected sentence and the relation that have the maximum score.
Note thatwe make the assumption that a new sentence can be connected to the sentenceson the right most edge in the discourse tree (in Figure 5, S5 is not allowed toconnect to S1 and S2).
(1) Cue phrases Examples of rules for matching cue phrases are shown inTable 1.
Each rule specifies a condition for a pair of a new sentence and apossible connected sentence: the range of possible connected sentences (how farfrom the new sentence) and patterns for the two sentences.
If a pair meets thesecondition, the relation and score in the rule are given to it.
(2) Word/phrase chain A sentence consists of a topic part and a non-topicpart.
Words in a phrase whose head word is marked with ?wa?
are regarded asa topic part, and words except a topic part as a non-topic part.In two sentences, if word-chaining is identified between a topic of a connectedsentence and a topic of a new sentence, some score is given to topic chaining rela-tion.
Similarly, if word-chaining is identified between a non-topic of a connected..because tousho (at first) and 3-gatsusue-made (until the end of March) have acertain similarity, the coherence relation is determined to contrast.Automatic Slide Generation Based on Discourse Structure Analysis 759Detection of Relation Between Two Sentencesbetween two clauses in a sentence described in subsection 2.3.
If the topics oftwo sentences have a certain similarity, the normalized similarity score betweentwo sentences is given to contrast relation: otherwise, list relation.In the following example, because 1-gatsu-23-nichi-kara(from January 23th)in the sentence (3-a) and 1-gatsu-28-nichi-kara(from January 28th) in the sen-tence (3-b) have a certain similarity, some score is given to contrast relation.
(3) a.
1-gatsu-23-nichi karaJanuary 23th-karaOosaka Kobe kan-noOsaka Kobe betweendaitai bus yusou-gaalternate bus transportation-NOMjisshisaretaprovided(From January 23th, transportation by alternate-bus between Osakaand Kobe was provided.)b.
1-gatsu-28-nichi-kara-TOCJanuary 28th-karaenkatunasmoothunten-gatransportationkakuho-saretamaintained(From January 28th, the alternate-bus priority lane was set up andsmooth transportation was maintained.
)3 Extraction of Topic Part /Reduction of Non- opic PartIn this section, we describe how to extract what are displayed in a slide froman original text.
As mentioned in Subsection 2.4, a sentence consists of a topicpart and a non-topic part.
Considering a clause as a basic unit, we extract atopic part and a non-topic part.
Since, in general, non-topic part is relativelylong, we reduce a non-topic part to make the produced slide easy-to-read.
Theseprocedures are illustrated in Figure 7 (T denotes the topic part and N denotesthe non-topic part).3.1 Extraction of Topic PartA phrase whose head word is marked with a topic marker wa is extracted as atopic.
A topic is extracted also by several cue phrases.
When there are multiplesentence and a topic of a new sentence, some score is given to topic-dominantrelation.
(3) Similarity between two sentences Similarity between two sentencesis calculated by the similar method to one utilized for calculating similarity.760 T. Shibata and S. KurohashiTFig.
7.
Extraction of a topic part and reduction of a non-topic partTable 2.
Predicates and their case for key pointsCase Predicatega zyuuyouda(important), kagi-da(key factor),taisetsuda(important), yuuekida(beneficial)wo jyuushi-suru(attach importance to), akirakani-suru(clarify)ni tyakumoku-suru(focus attention on), jyuutenwo-oku(stress)Note that the following cases are not regarded as a topic:?
phrases such as ?wareware-wa?
(we are) and ?honronbun-dewa?
(in thispaper)?
a phrase does not depend on the end of the clause3.2In order to make a slide easy-to-read, it is important to reduce a text as longas the original meaning is preserved.
We reduce a non-topic part by (1) pruningextraneous words/phrases based on syntactic/case structure and (2) deletingextraneous parts of the main predicate by some rules.1.
Pruning extraneous words/phrasesExtraneous words/phrases are pruned based on syntactic/case structure.The following materials are pruned:?
conjunction?
adverb?
A-level clause?
adverb phrasee.g., computer-teishi-no-tame data-hikitsugi-mo-konnandatta.
(Becauseof the computer down, it is difficult to turn over the data.)?
appositive phrasese.g., nourinsuisansyou, kokudotyou-nado kuni-no-kakukikan.
(Agencies,such as Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Ministry and National LandAgency)2.
Removing extraneous parts of a main predicateExtraneous parts of a main predicate are removed by the following rules:?
deverbative noun-suru/sareta -> suru/sareta is deletedex.)
jisshi -sareta -> jisshi (carried out)?
deverbative noun-ga-okonawareta -> ga-okonawareta is deletedex.)
yusou-ga-okonawareta -> yusou (transport)?
noun-copula -> copula is deletedex.)
genin-da -> genin (cause)cue phrases in a clause, a topic is extracted only by the first cue phrase.
Someof them are shown below:?
syukkagenin-ga-hanmei-shita-kasai ni-oite ... (In the fire whose cause wasrevealed, ...)?
3-sen-no-futsuu ni-yori ... (Due to the interruption of the three train services,...)Automatic Slide Generation Based on Discourse Structure Analysis 761Reduction of Non-Topic Part4 Slide GenerationAs illustrated in Figure 8, topic/non-topic parts that are extracted in Section 3are placed in a slide based on the discourse structure that is detected in Section 2.Heuristic rules for generating slides are the following:?
If the text has a title, it is adopted as the title of the slide; otherwise, let thefirst topic in the text be the title of the slide.?
If there is a topic in a clause, the topic is displayed and in the next line thenon-topic parts are displayed in the subsequent indented level.
If there is nota topic in a clause, only non-topic parts are displayed.
If non-topic parts areregarded as key points, they are emphasized.?
The level of the clause in the same sentence is set to be equal and the indentof each sentence is determined according to the coherence relation to itsparent sentence:?
start: the level is set to 0 because a new topic starts.?
contrast/list: the same level.?
topic chaining: if a topic is equal to that of the parent sentence, thelevel is set to the same level and the topic is not displayed; otherwise, thelevel is decreased by one and the topic and non-topic parts are displayed.?
otherwise: the level is increased by one.Note that extraneous parts of the main predicate are not removed if thepredicate has a negation expression.3.3When the main predicate of the clause is the one listed in Table 2 and hasthe specified case component, we regard the non-topic part as key points.
Keypoints are emphasized when they are placed in the slides as described in thenext section.762 T. Shibata and S. KurohashiExtraction of Key PointsFig.
8.
Slide generation based on discourse structureTable 3.
Evaluation of discourse structure analysisaccuracyrelation between clauses 30 / 39 (76.9%)relation between sentences 60 / 89 (67.4%)5 Implementation and Evaluation5.1We implemented a text-to-presentation system, in which a user can ask a ques-tion and enjoy the presentation about the query.
We adopted Hanshin-AwajiDaishinsai Kyoukunn Siryousyuu (The Collection of Data Regarding the Lessonsfrom the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake Disaster)4 as a collection of text.
Thenumber of the unit of text is 400, which contains an average of 3.7 sentences withan average length of 50 characters.First, the system retrieves a text that is the most similar to the user?squery [11].
Then, the system converts the (written) text into spoken languagesand feeds them to a speech synthesis engine, while presenting summary slidesgenerated by the method described in this paper.
The system runs on a Webbrowser as shown in Figure 9.
When multiple slides are generated from a text,the system switches the slide to the next slide in synchronization with speechsynthesis.5.2 EvaluationWe generated slides from 30 queries and performed two evaluations: one isevaluation of discourse structure detection, the other is evaluation of automat-ically generated slides.
As for evaluation of paraphrasing and retrieving texts,see [6], [11].
The average reduction rate when comparing the original texts tothe generated slides was 0.797.The accuracy of detecting discourse structure is shown in Table 3.
Perfor-mance was evaluated by labeled attachment of clauses/sentences.
Major errors ofdiscourse structure detection are caused by word-chain mis-identification due to4 http://www.hanshin-awaji.or.jp/kyoukun/If the quantity of displayed texts exceeds a threshold, multiple slides aregenerated by splitting so that the number of lines in each slide is less than 12.As a number of researchers have pointed out [9, 10], the discourse structurecan be a clue to summarization: units found closer to the root of a discoursestructure tree are considered to be more important than those found at lowerlevels in the tree.
Along with such an idea, it can be considered that topic/non-topic parts in a lower unit (deep in a discourse structure) are not placed in aslide.
However, in case that automatically generated slides are presented alongwith speech synthesis, the above treatment is not applied because speech withoutany corresponding description in the slide is not natural.Automatic Slide Generation Based on Discourse Structure Analysis 763Implementation of Text-to-Presentation SystemFig.
9.
A screenshot of our systemis whether a slide prevents a user to understand a presentation or not.
Errors ofgenerating slides are caused by the failure of detecting discourse structure anddeleting non-topic part because of syntactic/case analysis errors.
The heuristicrules of generating slides described in Section 4 do not cause an error.Converting original texts into multimodal presentation (summary slides andspeech synthesis) is significantly better in comparison with presenting originaltexts, even if there are some errors in generated slides.
In particular, a slide inwhich a contrast/list structure is detected is far easier to read than an originaltext, as shown in Figure 9.6 Related WorkUtiyama and Hasida presented a method of generating slide shows from doc-uments which are semantically annotated by GDA [2].
The GDA is an XMLtagset which allows machines to automatically infer the semantic structure un-derlying the raw documents.
The system picks up important topics in the inputThe work of Marcu et al is well known in the field of discourse parsing [12, 13].They developed a discourse-annotated corpus and learned a discourse-parsing al-gorithm from it.
In contrast, our discourse analyzer was based on generic heuris-tic rules.
Actually, its application to the earthquake domain texts worked well forproducing a summary slide.
We do not have any plan for constructing discourse-annotated corpus in this domain because annotating discourse structure of textstakes much costs.As for automatically generated slides, out of 30 texts, 15 was good, 12 waspartially good and 3 was bad (judged by authors).
The criterion for evaluationof recognizing semantic equivalence of these gaps.
Recognition errors of con-trast relations between two clauses/sentences are attributed to a large variety ofsentence structure and calculation failure of similarities between topics of twoclauses/sentences by thesaurus.expression gaps.
To deal with this problem, we are planning to apply a method764 T. Shibata and S. KurohashiWhile we are improving the accuracy of detecting discourse structure andreducing the non-topic parts, we are planing to integrate text-to-presentationsystem with embodied conversational agents to enhance the presentation con-tents.References1.
Yoshiaki, Y., Masashi, T., Katsumi, N.: A support system for making presentationslides (in japanese).
Transactions of the Japanese Society for Artificial Intelligence18 (2003) 212?2202.
Utiyama, M., Hasida, K.: Automatic slide presentation from semantically anno-tated documents.
In: 1999 ACL Workshop on Coreference and Its Applications.(1999)3.
Kurohashi, S., Nakamura, T., Matsumoto, Y., Nagao, M.: Improvements ofJapanese morphological analyzer JUMAN.
In: Proceedings of the InternationalWorkshop on Sharable Natural Language.
(1994) 22?284.
Kurohashi, S., Nagao, M.: A syntactic analysis method of long japanese sentencesbased on the detection of conjunctive structures.
Computational Linguistics 20(1994)5.
Kaji, N., Kawahara, D., Kurohashi, S., Sato, S.: Verb paraphrase based on caseframe alignment.
In: Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics.
(2002) 215?2226.
Kaji, N., Okamoto, M., Kurohashi, S.: Paraphrasing predicates from written lan-guage to spoken language using the web.
In: Proceedings of the Human LanguageTechnology Conference.
(2004) 241?248structure analysis, extraction of topics/non-topic parts and displaying thembased on discourse structure.from the tags and generates a slide by extracting relevant sentences and para-phrasing them to an itemized summary.
Although it is possible to generate slideshows from semantically annotated documents even if they are relatively long,the manual annotation costs too much.In the field of automatic summarization, for improving the quality of summa-rization, the sentence reduction system has been proposed [14].
Their system wasconstructed from pairs of articles and human-written summaries.
This idea canbe applied into our system, utilizing an alignment technique between technicalpapers and presentation sheets [15].7 ConclusionIn this paper, we have proposed the method of automatically generating a sum-mary slide from a text.
Our method of generating slides consists of discourse7.
Kurohashi, S., Nagao, M.: Automatic detection of discourse structure by checkingsurface information in sentences.
In: Proceedings of 15th COLING.
Volume 2.
(1994) 1123?11278.
Ikehara, S., Miyazaki, M., Shirai, S., Yokoo, A., Nakaiwa, H., Ogura, K., Oyama,Y., Hayashi, Y., eds.
: Japanese Lexicon.
Iwanami Publishing (1997)document on the basis of the semantic dependencies and coreferences identifiedAutomatic Slide Generation Based on Discourse Structure Analysis 76511.
Kiyota, Y., Kurohashi, S., Kido, F.: Dialog navigator: A question answering systembased on large text knowledge base.
In: Proceedings of 19th COLING.
(2002) 460?46612.
Marcu, D.: The rhetorical parsing of unrestricted texts: A surface-based approach.Computational Linguistics 26 (2000) 395?44813.
Carlson, L., Marcu, D., Okurowski, M.E.
: Building a discourse-tagged corpus inthe framework of rhetorical structure theory.
In: Proceedings of the 2nd SIGDIALWorkshop on Discourse and Dialogue.
(2001)14.
Jing, H.: Sentence reduction for automatic text summarization.
In: Proceedingsof the sixth conference on Applied natural language processing.
(2000) 310?31515.
Hayama, T., Nanba, H., Kunifuji, S.: Alignment between a technical paper andpresentation sheets using hidden markov model.
In: Proceedings of the 2005 In-ternational Conference on Active Media Technology.
(2005)10.
Marcu, D.: Discourse trees are good indicators of importance in text.
In I.Mani,M.Maybury, eds.
: Advances in Automatic Text Summarization.
The MIT Press(1999) 123?1369.
Ono, K., Sumita, K., Miike, S.: Abstract generation based on rhetorical structureextraction.
In: Proceedings of the 15th COLING.
(1994) 344?348766 T. Shibata and S. Kurohashi
