R. Dale et al (Eds.
): IJCNLP 2005, LNAI 3651, pp.
588 ?
599, 2005.?
Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2005Why Is Zero Marking Important in Korean?Sun-Hee Lee1,*, Donna K. Byron2, and Seok Bae Jang31,2 395, Dreese Lab., 2015, Neil Avenue,Columbus, OH 43210shlee@ling.ohio-state edudbyron@cse.ohio-state.edu3 37th and O Sts., NW, Washington, D.C, 20057sbj3@georgetown.eduAbstract.
This paper argues for the necessity of zero pronoun annotations inKorean treebanks and provides an annotation scheme that can be used to de-velop a gold standard for testing different anaphor resolution algorithms.
Rele-vant issues of pronoun annotation will be discussed by comparing the Penn Ko-rean Treebank with zero pronoun mark-up and the newly developing SejongTeebank without zero pronoun mark-up.
In addition to supportive evidence forzero marking, necessary morphosyntactic and semantic features will be sug-gested for zero annotation in Korean treebanks.1   IntroductionThis paper discusses the importance of zero pronoun marking in treebanks and investi-gates what kind of linguistic features are needed for treebank annotation in order toincrease the usability of annotated corpora.
Zero pronouns refer to empty pronounswithout phonological realization, which work in a similar manner as English pronouns.In the recent decade, there has been remarkable progress in the realm of buildinglarge corpora in Korean and applying them for linguistic research and natural lan-guage processing.
Based on the broad acknowledgement of the importance of corpusand applicative tools, the 21st century Sejong project was launched in 1998 and hasbeen developing various database and relevant computational tools including elec-tronic dictionaries, annotation tools, morphological analyzers, parsers, etc.
As a partof the Sejong project, the syntactically annotated treebank of Korean has been underconstruction.
In addition to the Sejong Treebank (henceforth, ST), the Penn KoreanTreebank (Han et al[4] henceforth, PKT) has already been released and continues tobe expanded.
These treebanks with abundant linguistic information are expected tofulfill a function as informative databases in broad domains of theoretical linguisticsand computational linguistics such as statistical approaches, machine learning, etc.A notable point is that there is a critical difference between annotations of ST andPKT with respect to marking zero elements including traces, zero pronouns, etc.
Themost current guidelines of ST specify that zeros are dropped in order to maintain the*This work was supported by the Korea Research Foundation Grant (KRF-2004-037-A00098)for the author.Why Is Zero Marking Important in Korean?
589consistency and efficiency of the treebank.
In contrast, PKT advocates forrepresenting zero elements.
According to different approaches to zero marking, thestructure of the following sentence (1a) is differently analyzed as in (1b) and (1c); in(1b) ST does not contain any missing subject while PKT marks the missing subjectand object as pros in (1c)1(1) a.
???
12?-?
?-?-??
?.eceypam        12 si-ey       pat-ass-supnita.last night        12 o?clock-at   receive-Past-E?Last night at 12 o?clock, (I/(s)he/they) received (it)?.b.
ST:  (VP   (AP    ??
?/MAG)(VP  (NP_AJT 12/SN + ?/NNB + ?/JKB)(VP ?/VV+?/EP+??
?/EF.+ ./SF )))c. PKT :(S   (NP-SUBJ  *pro*)(VP  (NP-ADV ??
?/NNC)(NP-ADV 12/NNU ?/NNX+?/PAD)(VP  (NP-OBJ  *pro*)?/VV+?/EPF+??
?/EFN))) ./SFN).The sentence representation of (1b) does not fully present the subject-predicate re-lation in contrast with (1c).
In this paper, we argue that failure to mark zeros maycause a loss of valuable linguistic information such as filler-gap dependencies, argu-ment-predication relations, semantic and discourse interpretations of sentences, etc.The ST style zero-less annotation will impose the burden of zero marking on the post-annotation tasks, which utilize treebank resources for developing computational tools.This, however, is inconsistent with the purpose of developing treebanks.
As pointedout in Dickinson & Meurers [3], treebanks have major usage for two types of lin-guists; one is for theoretical linguists who search through the corpora in order to iden-tify certain linguistic patterns.
The other is for computational linguists who use com-putational technology and develop statistical models from the annotated corpora inorder to develop parsers and question-answer systems and to extract information suchas subcategorization frames of predicates, event nouns, complex predicates, etc.
Ingeneral, treebanks are manually or semi-manually annotated by humans.
This guaran-tees more sophisticated representations of sentence structure and reliable mark-ups forambiguous morphosyntactic units.
While focusing on the usability of treebanks, wepropose an argument against dropping zero mark-ups in treebanks and investigate theempirical necessity of zero annotation in Korean treebanks.In this paper, we will discuss some significant problems of zero-less treebankannotation and explain why zero annotation is important in languages like Korean.Then we will present a general annotation scheme and features of zero pronounsthat can be used to develop a gold standard for testing an anaphor resolution algo-rithm.
Adding zero mark-up will solidify accurate syntactic representation and in-crease the usability of treebanks even though it takes strenuous efforts and timefor development.1The tagsets of ST and PKT are somewhat different (i.e., MAG represents an adverb, AP, anadverbial phrase, and NP-ADV , a nominal functioning as an adverbial modifier in ST).590 S.-H. Lee, D.K.
Byron, and S.B.
Jang2   Necessity of Zero Annotation in Korean TreebankIn contrast with English where a repeated element tends to appear as a pronoun, intopic prominent languages like Korean, a repeated element has no surface realization.Thus, Korean zero elements are often called zero pronouns.
(2) a. John met Mary yesterday.b.
Kim met her, too.
(3) a. John-i           eycey          Mary-lul    mannassta.John-Nom   yesterday  Mary-Acc  met?John met with Mary yesterday.
.b.
Kim-to       ?
,mannaassta.Kim also    OBJ    met?Kim also met (zero=her).
?The discrepancy between ST and PKT with respect to zero annotation brings ustwo different values with respect to corpus annotation; economy vs. usability.
At thestage of annotating corpora, excluding all the missing subjects from the Korean tree-banks may reduce the burden of annotation tasks such as classifying zeros, sortingmarkable zeros, training annotators and maintaining the legitimate level of inter-annotator agreement.
However, at the later stage zero marked treebanks have higherusability by higher level processing including anaphor resolution, extracting subcate-gorization frames of predicates, discourse analysis, etc.More specifically, our arguments against zero-less treebanks can be presented asfollows.
First, zero-less treebanks may provide misleading representations with re-spect to the general patterns of sentence realization.
In so-called pro-drop languagessuch as Korean, Japanese, Spanish and Portuguese, basic units of sentence structure,such as subjects of matrix clauses, are frequently unrealized.
Although missing sub-ject information in languages like Spanish and Portuguese is recoverable from verbmorphology, interpretations of missing arguments do not correspond to specific verbmorphology in Korean.
Thus, marking the place of a zero element is an inevitableprocess not only for structural representation but for processing the meaning of asentence.
Zero-less treebanks license various VP or S nodes without capturing correctargument-predicate relations.
For example, the following sentence is simply repre-sented as VP, which is inconsistent with the subcategorization frame of the main verb.
(4) ??
???
???-?
???-?
?-?-??
?.kunyang camcakho wuntongcang-man naytapo-ko  iss-ess-supnita.just         silently      playground-only    look down-PreP-Past-E?
(I/you/he/she/they) was only looking down the playground just silently.?
(VP  (AP ?
?/MAG)(VP   (AP ??
?/MAG)(VP   (NP_OBJ ??
?/NNG + ?/JX)(VP   (VP ??
?/VV + ?/EC)(VP ?/VX + ?/EP + ??
?/EF + ./SF)))))According to Hong [6], the rate of subject drop is 57% in spoken Korean, which ishigher than other elements.
In particular, when the subject refers to a nominal entitymentioned in the previous utterance, it naturally disappears in speech rather than ap-Why Is Zero Marking Important in Korean?
591pearing as a pronoun.
This suggests that the number of VPs lacking subjects will besignificantly high in the spoken corpora.
We extracted only 100 sentences from theST corpus containing natural spoken conversations and found that 81 sentences arerepresented as VPs or VNPs (predicate nominal phrases).
However, it may derive amisleading generalization such that canonical sentence patterns in the given corpusare VPs or VNPs.
In line with this, semantic interpretations of those incomplete VPsor VNPs subsume the meaning of the zero pronouns whose antecedents appear in theprevious utterances.
However, zero-less mark-up poses a difficulty in retrieving thecomplete sentential meaning from the given phrasal categories of VPs or VNPs.Second, zero-less treebanks make it difficult to extract certain constructions thatlinguists want to identify.
For example, one of the most frequently discussed topics inKorean grammar is formation of Double Subject Constructions (DSCs), which licensetwo subjects.
However, zero-less treebanks do not correctly represent Double SubjectConstructions and represent (5) and (6) differently in spite of their similarity inargument realization.
(5) ??-?
?-?
?
?-?-??
?.hayspam-i                mas-i          ssek    choh-ass-supnita.new chestnut-Nom  taste-Nom   quite   good-Past-End?New chestnuts had pretty good taste.?
(S  (NP_SUB ?
?/NNG + ?/JKS)(S  (NP_SBJ ?/NNG + ?/JKS)(VP  (AP ?/MAG)(VP ?/VA + ?/EP + ??
?/EF + ./SF))))(6)  ???
?-?
?
?-?-??
?.yunanhi            mas-i         ssek    choh-ass-supnita.particularly      taste-Nom  quite   good-Past-End?Particularly, the taste of (it) was pretty good.?
(S  (AP  ??
?/MAG)(S (NP_SBJ ?/NNG + ?/JKS)(VP  (AP ?/MAG)(VP ?/VA + ?/EP + ??
?/EF + ./SF))))According to the analysis of ST, (5) is represented as a DSC that licenses two sub-jects, hayspam and mas.
In contrast, (6) is represented as a complex clause that onlylicenses a single matrix subject, mas and the first zero subject referring to the samenominal entity in the preceding phrase has been ignored in the sentential representa-tion.
It is difficult to extract certain syntactic patterns from the zero-less treebanksbecause their structural representations do not reflex the accurate argument-predicaterealization.
It is because they focus on surface realization of arguments instead ofconsidering lexical constraints of argument-predicate relations.The third critical problem of zero-less treebanks is related to discourse analysis.Unrealized arguments are important for tracking the attentional state of a discourse intopic-oriented languages like Korean and Japanese.
Within the framework of center-ing theory, e.g.
Walker et al [9], Iida [7]), Hong [6], etc.
it has been shown that asalient entity recoverable by inference from the context is frequently omitted, andtherefore interpreting these zero pronouns allows one to follow the center of the atten-tional state.
Walker et al [9] applied the centering model, developed for pronoun592 S.-H. Lee, D.K.
Byron, and S.B.
Jangresolution in English, to zero pronoun resolution in Japanese.
They argue that inter-pretation of a zero pronoun is determined by discourse factors.
This suggests thatidentifying occurrences of zero pronouns and retrieving their antecedents are impor-tant in developing a computational model of discourse interpretations as well as syn-tactic and semantic analyses.
When it comes to topic information retrieval, the salientelement under the discussion of the given discourse is realized as a zero.
Grammaticalroles and semantic restrictions provide crucial cues for the interpretations of them.However, without specifying the argument positions of these zeros, discourse proc-essing of the given utterances is impossible.3   Relevant Issues of Zero AnnotationZero marked treebanks function as useful resource for researchers, especially theanaphora resolution community.
For developing computational tools of anaphor reso-lution, it is necessary to determine the distribution of zero pronouns and their link toother discourse properties.
There has historically been a lack of annotated materialavailable to the wider research community that would allow us to investigate thesequestions.
Researchers in the past worked mainly with small amounts of hand-constructed data rather than being able to do large-scale corpus analysis.
This lack hasbeen recently pointed out by Lee et al [8] evaluating the Penn Korean Treebank (Hanet.
al.
[4]), which includes annotations indicating the position of zero pronouns.
InPKT, annotations of zeros are problematic due to inconsistent mark-up for zero pro-nouns and structural representation of trees.
Inconsistent annotation of zero pronounsin PTK brings an imminent issue for developers of Treebanks and other annotatedlanguage resources; when and how should these unrealized elements be explicitlyintroduced into the linguistic material being developed?
Unless these questions areresolved, treebanks cannot fulfill their potential as a source of linguistic knowledgeabout zero pronouns.
Also, the same question should be taken into consideration byother teams developing similar resources in other languages.3.1   Argument vs. AdjunctPrevious authors have pointed out that the antecedents of zero pronouns can often bedetermined by using various grammatical properties such as topicality, agreement,tense, and aspect as well as subcategorization information (Walker et al [9]; Iida [7];Hong [6],  etc.).
However, in order for these factors to be useful in developing anaph-ora resolution algorithms, they must be reliably and consistently annotated into thesource data.
Thus, the first crucial step for zero pronoun resolution is identifying theexact positions of zero pronouns.
Determining the positions of invisible zeros is adifficult task.
This process needs to refer to the argument realization in a given utter-ance and the previous utterances of the same discourse unit.
The argument realizationof a sentence is based upon argument structure of a predicate.
(7) a.  John-i  .
kesil-eyse           swi-ko  iss-ess-ta?John-Nom    living room-in    rest-Pres Prog-Past-E?John was resting in the living room.?b.
sakwa-lul  mek-ess-ta.apple-Acc  eat-past-E?
(He) ate an apple.
?Why Is Zero Marking Important in Korean?
593In (7b), the argument structure of mekta ?eat?
suggests that the subject is missing ina sentence sakwalul mekesse ?ate an apple?.
However, do we need to mark the adjunctkesileyse  ?in the living room?
in (7b)?
In the given utterances, it seems to be possiblefor John to have eaten the apple in the living room but it is not necessarily true.
Thecombinations of adjunct and predicate are not predictable by using argument structureof a predicate.
With no specific guideline, identifying missing adjuncts complicatesthe annotation process.
Thus, we argue that only missing arguments must be marked.As for zero argument annotation, the current annotation in PKT is somewhat prob-lematic due to unclear distinction of obligatory argument vs. optional argument.
Ac-cording to the guidelines of PKT, only a missing obligatory argument should be anno-tated as an empty element.
Missing optional arguments and adjuncts are not.
Thus, inPKT, missing subject or object elements were marked as zeros while missing locativearguments were not marked when they were omitted.
However, the annotationmethod based on an obligatory vs. optional argument may result in the loss of crucialinformation needed at later stage of retrieving an antecedent of a zero element.
Forexample, the locative argument, ?the 45th division-in?
has not been marked up as azero pronoun in the tagged sentence of (8b)(8) a: ?
45   ???
?
??-??
????
???
?the   45   division  again what-with   composed  be?What is the 45th Division composed of ??
(S  (NP-SBJ ?/XPF+45/NNU?
?/NNC+?/PAU)(VP (VP (ADVP ?/ADV)(VP (NP-COMP ??/NPN+?
?/PAD)(VV ??/NNC+?/XSV+?/EAU)))?/VX+?
?/EFN)  ?/SFN)b: ??
???-?
????
.division    head-Nom      exist?The head division is (there).
(S (NP-SBJ ??/NNC??
?/NNC+?/PCA)(ADJP ?/VJ+???/EFN).
/SFN)In the given discourse segments, the adjective ??
issta requires a locative argu-ment which has been treated as an optional argument in PKT.
Thus, the informationof the missing locative has not been represented even though it is crucial for retriev-ing the meaning of the sentence.
Another concern with respect to distinction of argu-ment and adjunct is that ST classifies only subject and object as arguments and ex-cludes other case-marked nominals as adjunct2.
This classification may cause prob-lems when zero pronouns are added in their treebanks.In identifying missing zero arguments, maintaining consistency is crucial.
For thistask, we can rely on a dictionary containing constant argument structure of predicates.Dictionaries with specific argument structure information can be used here, such as2In addition to subject and object, nominals in front of predicates, toyta, anita and quotationclause have been included as arguments.594 S.-H. Lee, D.K.
Byron, and S.B.
Jangthe Yonsei Korean dictionary, where different subcategorization frames are listedaccording to semantically disambiguated senses for each predicate.
For correct identi-fication of a zero pronoun in the given utterance, annotators need to examine the rele-vant previous utterances in the same discourse unit and determine the exact verb senseof the relevant predicate by using the dictionary.
In addition, checking inter-annotatoragreement is also an essential task (Carletta [2]).3.2   Language Specific Properties of KoreanAnother notable point is that the developers need to pay attention to language specificproperties of Korean.
There are some notable morphosyntactic properties of Koreanwith respect to zero pronoun annotation.
In order to maintain constant annotation ofzero pronouns, it is important to carefully represent specific features related to zeropronouns.
In this section, we will discuss specific properties that can be added forzero pronoun annotation.
It will increase the applicability of the treebank to boththeoretical research on anaphors and computational modeling of anaphor resolution.
[1]   CASE MARKINGIn determining an antecedent of a zero pronoun, the existence of topics plays an im-portant role in Korean.
In the previous theoretical literature, it has been commonlyassumed that the topic marked elements appear at the higher phrasal level than thephrasal combination of subject-predicate.
At the discourse level, Walker et al [9] andIida [7] provide evidence that topic marked elements function as antecedents of zeropronouns in Japanese.
The similar property has been also observed with Korean byHong [6].
As seen in the following examples, the sentence-initial topic functions asthe antecedent of zero pronouns that appear in the latter utterances.
This phenomenonsuggests that the topic marker needs to be differentiated from other postpositions andthat grammatical topics are to be differentiated from other grammatical argumentslike subjects and objects.
(9) a  Seyho-nun apeci-eykey   chingchan-ul pat-ca    ekkay-ka ussukhayci-pnita.Seyho-Top  father-to        praise-Acc     receive-E be proud of?As for Seyho, he felt pride when he received praise from father.?b.
?
20 ilman-ey  tut-nun   chingchan-ila kippum-un   hankyel tehaysssupnita20days-in    hear-Rel  praise-since    pleasure-Top  far         more?Since it was the praise (he) heard for the first time in 20 days, his pleasurewas much more.?c.
?
emeni-eykey-nun  nul         kkwucilam-kwa   cansoli-man   tulesssupnita.mother-to-Top      always    scolding-and        lecture-only    heard?From his mother, (he) always heard only scolding and lecture.
?In general, while the marker nun functions as a topic marker in a sentence initialposition, it also works as an auxiliary postposition in a non-initial position of a sen-tence in Korean.
The first is classified as a grammatical topic marker while the latteris a contrastive topic marker in traditional Korean grammar.
However, the currentannotations of PKT and ST treat topic marker nun as the same auxiliary postposition,which is similar to other postpositions man ?only?, to ?also?, and mace ?even?.
In par-ticular, PKT and ST represent a subject NP with a topic marker as the subject, whileWhy Is Zero Marking Important in Korean?
595an object with a topic marker is treated as a scrambled argument out of its canonicalposition.
With respect to zero pronouns, the sentence initial topic marker needs to bedistinctly marked from other postpositions.
In addition, we claim that the structuralposition of a topicalized subject needs to be differentiated from a normal subject posi-tion in parallel with a topicalized object and other element, which leave zero traces intheir original positions.Another problem with case markers is subject marker -eyse, which only combineswith nominals referring to a group or organization.
In Korean, these group nominalsdo not take the nominative case i/ka but the case marker -eyse as in (12)(10) wuli hakkyo-eyse  wusung-ul         hayssta.our school-Nom    winning-Acc     did?Our school won.
?Although -eyse has been treated as a nominative case marker in traditional Koreangrammar, both PKT and ST do not treat -eyse as a nominative marker.
Instead, groupor organization nominals with the case marker-eyse  are analyzed as NP adverbialphrases.
This, however, mistakenly licenses a zero subject in the following exampleof PKT even though the subject with case marker -eyse exists.
In order to eliminateredundant marking for the zero subjects, it is better to analyze the case marker, -eyseas a nominative case marker in Korean.
(11) 2 ??-??
??
???-?
???-?
?-?
?2 taytay-eyse         etten        mwucenmang-ul     wunyonha-ko iss-ci?2 squadron-Nom   which      radio network-Acc  use-PresP-Q?What kind of radio network is the 2nd squadron using??
(S  (NP-ADV  2/NNU??/NNC+?
?/PAD)(S     (NP-SBJ *pro*)(VP (VP (ADVP ?/ADV)(VP (NP-OBJ ??/DAN??
?/NNC+?/PCA)(VV ?
?/NNC+?/XSV+?/EAU)))?/VX+?/EFN) ?/SFN)[2]   SUBJECTLESS CONSTRUCTIONSUnlike English having expletive pronouns it or there, certain predicate constructionsdo not license subject positions at all in Korean.
Some examples are presented in(12),which include incomplete predicates with few inflectional forms.
(12) -ey tayhaye, ?regarding on?-ey kwanhaye, ?about?
-ey uyhaye, ?in terms of?-lo inhayse  ?due to~?, -wa tepwule  ?with ~?
etc.In addition, some modal auxiliary verbs like sangkita, poita, toyta, etc.
do not licensesubject positions and have already been classified as subjectless constructions in Ko-rean grammar.
While ST treats these modal verbs to be included in the precedingverbal clusters, PKT separates them from the preceding verbs and assigns zero sub-jects for these verbs.
Thus, the PKT approach redundantly assigns zero subjects forsubjectless predicates.596 S.-H. Lee, D.K.
Byron, and S.B.
Jang[3]   VERBAL MORPHOLOGY OF SPEECH ACTAs for zero pronoun resolution, verbal suffixes representing speech act can be a usefulsource.
Thus, we argue for adding these morphosyntactic features in treebanks.
It hasbeen well known that in Korean certain speech acts such as declaration, request, ques-tion, promise, etc.
are associated with verb morphology; five different types of verbalinflections are used to indicate declaratives, interrogatives, imperatives, propositives,and exclamatives.
Information of a missing subject can be retrieved from verbal mor-phology.
For example, the imperative verbal endings suggest that a missing subjectrefers to the hearer while promising verbal endings imply that a missing subject is thespeaker.
Thus, the missing subjects of the following examples are respectively inter-preted as I, you and we based on the verbal suffixes representing a particular speech act.
(13) a. ?
ka-llay.
(Question)go-Q?Do (you) want to go??b.
?
ka-llay.
(Declaration)go-will?
(I) will go.?c.
?
ka-ca.
(Request)go-let?s?Let?s go.
?Verbal endings of speech acts can be used to enhance the process of determiningan antecedent of a zero pronoun subject.
In the current annotations of PKT and ST,verbal suffixes do not subclassify the final endings.
We argue that annotating the fiveclasses of verbal suffixes differently will facilitate application of anaphor resolutionalgorithms on treebanks.
[4]   WH-PRONOUN TAGGINGWh-pronouns in Korean include nwuka ?who?, mwues ?what?, encey ?when?, etise?where?, way ?why?, ettehkey ?how?, etc.
Unfortunately, wh-pronouns are not dis-tinctly tagged from other pronouns in the PKT and the ST.
The information of wh-pronouns can be useful for resolving the meaning of zero pronouns in the next an-swering utterance As seen in (14b), a fragment directly related to a wh-pronoun nec-essarily appears in the answering utterance while non-wh-elements previously men-tioned are easily dropped.
This is because pairs of wh-question-answer tend to havethe same predicates with the same argument structure.
Therefore, answering utter-ances of the wh-questions generally contain zero pronouns, whose antecedents appearin the preceding questioning utterances.
(14) A:  John-i            Min-ul         mwe-la-ko               mitko  iss-ni?John-Nom     Min-Acc      what-Co-Comp       believe being-Q?What does John believe Min to be?
?B:  ?
?
kyoswu-la-ko          mitko   iss-nuntey.SUBJ    OBJ         professor-Co-Comp   believe  being-END?
(He) believes (her) to be a professor.
?Why Is Zero Marking Important in Korean?
5974   New Annotation Scheme of Korean Zero PronounsOnce zeros are identified by argument structure information of predicates and theprevious utterances in the given discourse, the additional reference information can beadded in treebanks to support anaphor resolution.
Zeros in Korean can be classifiedinto different classes according to properties of their reference.
Anaphor resolutionalgorithms can be applied for certain types of pronouns.
For example, in order toretrieve the meaning of a zero pronoun referring to a nominal entity in the previousutterance, the resolution algorithm will search nominal entities that appear in the pre-vious utterance by making a list of antecedent candidates and selecting the most ap-propriate candidate.
In contrast, the searching algorithm does not need to apply for azero element referring to an indefinite entity as in (15).
(15) ?
holangi    kwul-ey      ka-ya    holangi-lul      capnunta.tiger         den-to         go-E     tiger-Acc        catch(Lit.)
?One should go to the tiger?s den in order to catch a tiger.(Trans.
)?Don?t hesitate but pursue what you need to do.
?According to reference relation between a zero pronoun and its antecedent, zeropronouns in Korean can be divided into three classes as in Table 1; discourse ana-phoric zeros, deictic and indexical zeros, and indefinite zeros.In the given classification, discourse anaphoric zeros take their reference from an-tecedents in the previous utterances in the given discourse.
This class is the main onethat anaphor resolution systems aim to handle.
The discourse anaphoric zeros can bedivided into three subclasses according to the semantic properties of their antecedents.Table 1.
Classification of Korean Zero PronounsIndividual EntitiesPropositionsDiscourse Anaphoric ZerosEventualitiesDeictic and Indexical ZerosIndefinite ZerosThe first subclass of discourse anaphoric zeros refers to individual domain entities,the second, eventualities, and the third, propositions.
The zeros of individual entitiesrefer to entities that were introduced into the discourse via noun phrases.
Most exam-ples presented in the previous sections correspond to this class.
The zeros of proposi-tions refer to propositions introduced in the previous utterance as in (16).
(16) A: 108 yentay   cihwipwu-nun    hyencay eti-ey wichihako issnun-ka?108 regiment   headquarter-TOP  now  where-at locate   being-Q?Where is the headquarter of the 108th regiment located?
?B:  ?1      ?2      molukeyss-supnita.SUBJ   OBJ     not know-END?I don?t know.?
(?1 = ?B?, ?2= ?Where the headquarter of the 108th regiment is located ?
)598 S.-H. Lee, D.K.
Byron, and S.B.
JangThe third class of zero anaphors referring to eventualities, i.e.
action and event asin (17) (Asher [1]).
(17) A: Mary-ka              cip-ey -   ka-ko          sipheha-ci  anha.Mary-Nom          home-to go-E           want-END  don?t?Children don?t want to go home.
?B: na-to      ?
silhe.I-also                  hate?I also hate to go home.?
( ?
= the action of going home)The second class of zero pronouns includes deictic and indexical zeros that directlyrefer to entities that can be determined in the given spatiotemporal context, whichgenerally include a speaker and an addressee.
The third class includes indefinite zerosreferring to general people, which corresponds to they, one, and you in English.Given the classification of zero pronouns, different coding systems can be providedfor each class for annotating these elements.
According to different classes of zeros, theresolution process varies.
Zero anaphors of discourse anaphoric entities will be markedthe same as their antecedents in the previous utterances.
Anaphor resolution algorithmsdetermine the antecedent of a zero anaphor by searching through the antecedent candi-dates in different orders.
Deictic and indexical zeros are dependent on discourse partici-pants.
In general, a zero anaphor can also refer to the speaker or the hearer.
Overlappingmark-up for these zeros need to be allowed although resolution mechanisms for deicticand indexical zeros are different from those for anaphors.
Indefinite zeros need to bemarked but anaphor resolution algorithms do not need to be applied to them.5   ConclusionIn this paper, we discussed why zero marking is necessary for Korean treebanks andhow invisible zeros can be consistently marked in annotated corpora like treebanks.
Theimportance of zero mark-up in Korean treebanks has been discussed with respect tocorrect linguistic analysis and efficient application of computational process.
We alsoclaimed that only missing arguments are marked as zeros and a dictionary like YonseiDictionary with full specification of argument-predicate relations can be a useful sourcefor the annotation task.
By examining PKT and the newly developing ST, we deter-mined four linguistic features that are useful for anaphor resolution in Korean; casemarking, subjectless construction, verb morphology of speech acts and wh-pronountagging.
In addition, we provided a new annotation scheme that can be utilized for anno-tating treebanks and testing anaphor resolution algorithms with annotated corpora.References1.
Asher, N.:.
Reference to Abstract Objects in Discourse.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.(1993).2.
Carletta, J. Assessing Agreement on Classification Tasks: the Kappa Statistic, Computa-tional Linguistics 22(2) (1996) 249-254.3.
Dickinson, M. and Meurers, D.: Detecting Inconsistencies in Treebanks in Proceedings ofthe Second Workshop on Treebanks and Linguistics Theories.
(TLT 2003)..V?xj?.Sweden.
(2003)Why Is Zero Marking Important in Korean?
5994.
Han, C-H., Han, N-R., Ko, E-S.and Palmer, M.: Development and Evaluation of a KoreanTreebank and Its Application to NLP.in Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC).(2002)5.
Han, N-R.: Korean Null Pronouns: Classification and Annotation in Proceedings of theACL 2004 Workshop on Discourse Annotation.
(2004) 33-40.6.
Hong M.: Centering Theory and Argument Deletion in Spoken Korean.
The Korean Jour-nal  Cognitive Science.
Vol.
11-1 (2000) 9-24.7.
Iida, M.: Discourse Coherence and Shifting Centers in Japanese texts in Walker, M., JoshiA.K., Prince E.F.
(Eds.)
Centering Theory in Discourse.
Oxford University Press, Oxford:UK..(1998) 161-182.8.
Lee, S., Byron, D., and Gegg-Harrison, W.: Annotations of Zero Pronoun Resolution inKorean Using the Penn Korean Treebank in the 3rd Worksop on Treebanks and LinguisticsTheories (TLT 2004).
T?bingen.
Germany.
(2004)  75-88.9.
Walker, M., Iida, M., .Cotes, S.: Japanese Discourse and the Process of Centering in Com-putational Linguistics, Vol.
20-2.: (1994.)
193-23210.
10.
Dictionary   Yonsei Korean Dictionary.
(1999) Dong-A Publishing Co.11.
Guidelines of the Sejong Treebank.
Korea University
