Building Dialogue Corpora for Nursing Activity AnalysisHiromi itoh Ozaku, Akinori Abe,Noriaki Kuwahara, Futoshi Naya,Kiyoshi KogureATR Intelligent Robotics and Communication LabsH ikaridai 2-2-2 , Keihannna Science C ity,Kyoto , 619-0288{romi,ave,kuwahara,naya,kogure}@atr.jpKaoru SagaraSeinan Jo G akuin UniversityIhori 1-3-5 , Kokura K ita-ku , K itakyusyu C ity,Fukuoka, 803-0835sagara@seinan-jo.ac.jpAbstractIn th is paper, w e in troduce our corporaunder developm ent, w hich are recordedin a real environm ent.
These corporacom prise dialogues collected in hospi-tals w ith the aim of developing a nurs-ing serv ice support system through acom prehensive understanding of nurs-ing activ ities.
We use the corpora toanalyze how nurses perform their nurs-ing duties and how they express the per-form ance of their tasks.
To understandnursing activ ities, w e investigated nurs-ing serv ices and the relevant m edicalcharts by using the corpora.
In the pa-per, w e show features and prom isingapplications of the corpora.1 IntroductionRecently, m edical m alpractice has becom e a seri-ous social problem (Kohn, Corrlgan and Donald-son , 1999).
The Japanese M inistry of H ealth , La-bor and Welfare has reported that nursing team sare m ost frequently involved in m edical accidentsin hospitals(H ealthcare Safety Prom otion N et-work Project, 2001).
The Japanese Nursing A sso-ciation also states in its guidelines that nurses areencouraged to m ake nursing reports and to ana-lyze the cause of accidents, w hich is helpfu l toprevent their recurrence.
H owever, it is very dif-ficult for nurses to m ake a detailed record duringtheir working hours.We have been developing a nursing serv icesupport system based on nurses using w earablecom puters.
The system is designed to recordnursing activ ities and to give warnings when nec-essary.
We w ill analyze the collected data to an-alyze the sequence of their tasks and to quantifytheir workload for the purpose of preventing m ed-ical accidents.
To create such a support system ,w e need to acquire in-depth know ledge of nursingactiv ities closely.
A s a first step , w e are collectingnurses?
d ialogues in hospitals, bu ild ing dialoguecorpora, and analyzing the term s in the corporaused to carry out nursing work .We have already collected data on nursing tasksin a specific hospital by using special devices torecord voice data.
A s a next step , w e transcribedconversation recorded by the devices.
S ince then ,w e have been build ing dialogue corpora in actualwork sites.
The corpora include various conversa-tions w ith doctors, nurses, patien ts, and so on.
Wegenerally exchange inform ation , update inform a-tion , and share know ledge by conversation .
Webelieve that som e m edical accidents m ight occurdue to m iscommunication .
That is, nurses typi-cally exchange patien ts?
inform ation during con-versation in clin ical m eetings, w hile at the sam etim e taking care of patien ts and other nursing ac-tiv ities.O n the other hand, huge corpora have been41built from various voice data and text data(KyotoText Corpus, ; K .
M aekawa, 2003).
Furtherm ore,m any types of tags have been developed for effec-tive using of huge corpora(H .
Koiso et al, 2000;M A raki, et al, 1999).
H owever, since the trad i-tional d ialogue corpora w ere m ostly recorded ona trial basis, their top ics w ere usually fixed in thecorpora, and word usage and m eaning of term sw ere only defined clearly in one of them .
In thereal field , word usage, topics, and the m eaning ofterm s could not easily be fixed.
Furtherm ore, thecorpora have differen t features from those of thereal field data.
For exam ple, actual conversationsinclude m any types of m iscommunications, m is-understanding , a reso lu tion of the m isunderstand-ing , and so on.
Consequently, corpora built fromsuch actual conversations can be reflected by m is-communication or m isunderstanding .
Therefore,it is d ifficult to analyze the real field data by ru lesbuilt from the trad itional corpora.In th is paper, w e focus on the corpora of thevoice data recorded by the special devices, and toanalyze the voice data to understand nursing ac-tiv ities.
For developing a nursing serv ice supportsystem , w e checked the corpora and other infor-m ation such as m edical charts, describe featuresof the corpora and their availab ility.2 Corpora Collection2.1 E-nightingale ProjectIn m edical sites, h igher levels of know ledge andw ider experience are needed for using sophisti-cated m edical devices and , in turn , for accom -m odating a diverse aging society.
It is said thatinsufficien t know ledge and experience both in-fluence the perform ance of m edical professionalsand causes m alpractice.
O n the other hand, byprom oting the use of w earable sensors and envi-ronm ent sensors, it is possib le to collect a hugeam ount of data on actions in the real world .
A c-cord ingly, som e attem pts have been m ade to uti-lize know ledge obtained by analyzing daily ac-tions in the course of developing sensors for edu-cation and accident prevention .If im portan t inform ation could be obtainedby analyzing nursing activ ities autom aticallyrecorded by w earable com puters, it would be pos-sib le to autom atically and m ore correctly m akenursing reports.
Furtherm ore, if the nursing re-ports could be objectively analyzed , the cost of in-vestigating nursing practices could be kept downand more effective survey research on nursingactiv ities could be conducted .
Furtherm ore, itwould be possib le to pro tect nurses from m alprac-tice claim s by distinguish ing betw een nursing ac-tiv ities during norm al situations and during em er-gencies.To explo it th is potential, w e launched the ?E -nightingale pro ject?
to share and construct know l-edge obtained by analyzing the daily actions andexperiences of nurses.
This pro ject aim s to de-velop the fo llow ing technologies:1.
To observe and understand daily nursingactivities.2.
To build a knowledge base through under-standing these activities.3.
To utilized the necessary knowledge whenit?s actually needed.2.2 Obtained Voice Data of Nurses?ActivitiesWe have recorded various action data by w earablecom puters designed to analyze nursing activ itiesin hospitals(N .
Kuwahara, et al, 2003; N .
Kuwa-hara, et al, 2004).
Wearable com puters can col-lect various types of data such as location , pas-som eter resu lts, and posture inclination .
In ourprevious research , w e used passom eter, location ,and cue words to grasp nursing activ ities.
Wecould understand the nursing activ ities of a partic-u lar nurse but could not understand the relationsand inform ation flow among staff in a hospital.D ialogues betw een nurses are very im portan tin the perform ance of nursing activ ities and m ain-tain ing staff relations.
D ialogues betw een nurses42and other people, such as patien ts, doctors, andpatien ts?
fam ily, are also im portan t for obtain ing avariety of conversation behaviors m ore efficien tly.We believe that w e can understand not only nurs-ing activ ities but also conversation m echanism sby developing and analysing corpora of nurses?d ialogues.Therefore, w e have conducted experim ents tocollect voice data of nurses talk ing during theiractiv ities.
O ur reasons and aim s for focusing onvoice data are as fo llow s:?
To more effectively m ake lengthy record-ings than sensors w ith consum er m odel ICrecorders?
To obtain m any data, such as m edical charts,in addition to voice data?
To collect and unify term s of nursing activ i-ties for developing a support system?
To collect natural d ialogue data for clarifica-tion of conversation m echanism s and infor-m ation flow s?
To exam ine the appropriate sensors for un-derstanding voice data?
To comprehend problem s in actual fieldrecord ingIn the fo llow ing section , features of voice datacollected in experim ents are explained in detail.2.2.1 Voice Data during Clinical MeetingsDuring nurses?
sh ift changes, they hold clin-ical m eetings to discuss patien t inform ation , inthe process m odify ing and confirm ing th is infor-m ation .
Furtherm ore, if problem s occur in theirwork area, they hold brief conferences to so lvethe problem s by discussing their experiences.We have recorded nurses d ialogues in clin icalm eetings and brief conferences by using specialdevices.
A t the sam e tim e, w e have obtainedsuch inform ation as who participated in the clin i-cal m eetings and brief conferences.In the hospital w here w e carried out our exper-im ents, clin ical m eetings are held in the m orningand the evening tim e for about 20 m inutes to onehour.
The brief conferences are held at lunch tim efor about 30 m inutes.
Collected data w ere 80 tri-als for a one-w eek experim ent.
The entire record-ing tim e was about 20 hours.
We m ade transcrip-tions of the collected data.
Som e sam ple data areshown in tab le 1 1The transcrip tion was m ade by four staff m em -bers, including an experienced specialist in m ak-ing transcrip tions, a nurse who had worked inhospitals for three years or longer, a pharm acist,and a part-tim e em ployee, and it w as assum ed thatthe latter three had no experience working in thefield of transcrip tion .2.2.2 Event-driven Voice DataTo understand nursing activ ities, a one-dayschedule of nursing activ ities should be recordedand analyzed .
H owever, it is d ifficult to transcribeall such recorded data.
Therefore, w e recordedthe voice data of nursing activ ities along w ithclues annotated by nurses using the special de-v ices.To obtain voice data in hospitals, w e devel-oped an IC -recorder, a m icrophone w ith an eventbutton , and an in term ediate contro l box w ith abuzzer.
The event button is used for explicit vo iceannotation when nurses start or com plete a task .W hen the button is pushed , the buzzer soundsonce and its sound is recorded , and then nursesrecord their tasks at the m om ent by speaking shortsen tences.
The buzzer is also set to sound periodi-cally (every 10 m inutes) to prom pt nurses to m akevoice input about their ongoing tasks.
S im plesignal processing can extract and classify event-driven and periodic voice records, as w ell as nursecall rings.Event-driven voice data record ing is very use-1Tim e indicated elapsed tim e from the tim e when the ex-perim ent starts.
N urseID indicates the nurses participatingin the conversation .
In th is tab le, there are two nurses in theconversation .
U tterance is the transcrip tion of voice data .43Table.
1 : D ialogue Transcrip tion Exam pleTim e Nurse ID U tterance00:57:19 A The drip infusion is still being given , isn?t it?
N ot yet?00:57:20 B Yes.
It?s still d ripping now.00:57:22 A Ah, until w hen?00:57:24 B Until tom orrow.
Until 6 o?clock .fu l for accurately record ing nursing activ ities.
Inaddition , th is approach can record nursing activ i-ties at the desired tim e. A s a resu lt, tim e inform a-tion can be easily observed , and w e can collectobjective data on nursing activ ities.
Therefore,our approach im proves the efficiency of researchon tim e utilization .In one departm ent of a hospital, w e have con-ducted experim ents on collecting data of nurs-ing work through voice annotations.
The nurseswork in three shifts, assigned to prim ary patien tsof each ward .
A ll nurses w ere given instructionson the usage of our devices.
The entire record ingtim e was about 500 hours.
Collected data w eregathered from 39 trials for a one-w eek experim entinvolv ing 15 nurses using our devices.
We alsom ade transcrip tions of the collected data.
Som esam ple transcrip tions are shown in Table.2 .
Thetranscrip tion was also m ade by four staff m em -bers as m entioned above in 2 .2 .1 .3 Features of the CorporaAs discussed in the previous sections, w e focus ondialogue data such as natural conversations col-lected in daily life or work .
We can observe thefo llow ing features in the corpora.?
People in the conversations com e from vari-ous levels of social status.?
Conversations are conducted in variousplaces or situations.?
There are certain relationships or dependen-cies betw een the curren t conversation andthe previous conversations.?
Conversations on sim ilar topics are repeated .For exam ple, nurses engage in conversation notonly w ith other nurses but also w ith patien ts, fam -ilies of patien ts, and doctors.
N aturally, they be-have accord ing to their social ro le .
A s a resu lt,features of conversation w ill be differen t. Exam -ples of such differences are shown as fo llow s:?
Conversations betw een doctors and nursesinclude form al and m any m edical term s.?
Among nurses at m eetings, form al and m anyabbreviated expressions of m edical term s.?
Among nurses, inform al and m any abbrevi-ated expressions of m edical term s.?
With patien ts, fam ilies of patien ts andnurses, form al and m any words expressingm edical term s in sim ple words.N urses exchange and share inform ation ontheir patien ts depending on their work situations.The conversations are m ade in nurse stations,beside a patien t?s bed , in a clin ic , and so on.Som etim es conversation begins from necessityand other tim es it begin when nurses happen toencounter.Inform ation on patien ts should sm ooth ly betransferred from one shift nurse to the next sh iftnurse.
A s a resu lt, conversations dealing w ith thesam e or sim ilar m atter should have certain rela-tionships and dependencies.
For exam ple, top icsrelated to the sam e patien t and the sam e opera-tion patterns of a certain disease repeated ly ap-peared in our corpora.
For exam ple, ?to test b loodsugar levels?, in Table 2 , appeared whenever thepatien ts finished a m eal.44Table.
2 : Transcrip tion Exam ple for N ursing A ctiv itiesTim e U tterance11:28:11 I?m going to prepare a set of drip infusion for A be-san .11:32:01 I?ve finished preparing the drip for A be-san .11:32:04 I?m going to test b lood sugar levels of N aya-san and Kuwahara-san .11:33:48 I?ve finished testing blood sugar levels of N aya-san and Kuwahara-san .4 Applicability of the Corpora asSpoken Language CorporaIn th is section , w e discuss the applicability of theobtained corpora as spoken language corpora anda strategy to build a set of onto logies from them .We have already m anually generated around 30hours of corpora for event-driven data and 4 hoursof d ialogue corpora at clin ical m eetings.To understand nursing activ ities from event-driven data, w e used tags to understand situations.We assum ed that key inform ation to evaluate a sit-uation included tim e, p lace, m edication , d iseaseand the person?s nam e. Therefore, w e extractedthe person?s nam e, m edication and disease fromour corpora by using a nam ed entity recognitiontool.N am ed entity recognition is usefu l for extract-ing such inform ation as the person?s nam e, com -pany nam e, date, and place nam e. N am ed en-tity recognition tools have been developed in re-search on inform ation extraction , m achine trans-lation , and so on.
There are two types of nam edentity recognition : ru le-based recognition andstatistics-based recognition .
We believe that som econnections w ith personal nam e, for exam ple ??
?, ?
?, ??
(M r/M s)?, are determ ined atsom e level, and our target is data that can be ex-p lo ited to m ake hand-crafted ru les such as m ed-ical charts, attendance sheets and so on.
There-fore, w e studied how to extract personal nam e,m edication and disease using a ru le-based nam edentity recognition tool.
NExT is a w ell-knowntool in Japan for ru le-based nam ed entity recog-n ition .
We used the NExT version 0 .82 (NExT aNam ed Entity Extraction Tool, 2002), w hich canbe download from the M ie University w eb site .The NExT tool u tilizes Chasen version 2 .3 .3 form orphological analysis and ipadic version 2 .7 .0as a dictionary(M orphological A nalysis SystemChaSen, 2003).
The dictionary includes m anym edicine nam es, d iseases, personal nam es, andplace nam es.4.1 Tags in the CorporaNext, w e extracted personal nam es, m edication ,and diseases from the corpora and tagged the cor-pora to better understand situations.
For exam ple,the W HO tag m eans a speaker, in th is case a nurseas a subject using our special device, the W HOMtag m eans a hearer, the PT tag m eans the personor patien t nam e m entioned , and the PLACE tagm eans the place where the communication is con-ducted .
The T IM E tag indicates the absolu te tim ecalcu lated from the IC recorder?s elaped tim e andthe experim ent?s start tim e. The M ED tag m eansm edication , and the D IS tag indicates the diseasenam e. Table 3 show s a sam ple of the corpora.We m anually extracted the person nam e forW HO , W HOM , and PT from the transcrip tionw ith m edical charts.
Person nam es w ere alsoextracted by a nam ed entity recognition tool tocheck the NExT accuracy.
A lso , w e evaluatedPLACE by am bience sounds of voice data andschedule of nursing activ ities.
In addition , w em anually extracted m edication and disease forM ED and D IS .It should be noted that w e are analyzing wordsspecialized to nursing activ ities in the prim itivecorpora.
N ursing term s include daily used term sfor expressing work that supports patien ts?
daily45Table.
3 : Corpora Exam pleE lapsed Tim e TIM E PLACE U tterance11:28:11 18:28:11 Nurse S tation ?
W HO=nurseID ?
I ?/W HO ?
?m going to preparea set of drip ?
MED ?
in fusion ?/M ED ?
for ?
PT ?
Abe-san ?/PT ?.11 :32:01 18:32:01 Nurse S tation ?
W HO=nurseID ?
I ?/W HO ?
?ve finished preparingthe drip for ?
PT ?
Abe-san ?/PT ?.11 :32:04 18:32:04 Room 401 ?
W HO=nurseID ?
I ?/W HO ?
?m going to test b lood sugarlevels of ?
PT ?
Naya-san ?/PT ?
and ?
PT ?
Kuwahara-san ?/PT ?.11 :33:48 18:33:48 Room 401 ?
W HO=nurseID ?
I ?/W HO ?
?ve finished testing blood sugarlevels of ?
PT ?
Naya-san ?/PT ?
and ?
PT ?
Kuwahara-san ?/PT ?.lives as w ell as m edical term s specialized for theparticu lar m edical situation .
Furtherm ore, som em edicine and disease nam es are differen t from theexpressions used in from dictionaries, since ourcorpora include colloquial expressions.
M ore-over, it is d ifficult to tag som e expressions thathave the sam e m eaning .4.2 Nursing Terms Featured in the CorporaIn th is section , w e describe som e expressions thatexpress controversial features for tagging .For instance, in general ?????
(sengan)?m eans ???
(w ashing face),?
but if it is narratedbefore surgery in ophthalm ology, it m eans ???
(w ashing eye).?
?????
(jiritsu-suru)?
m eans?standing walk?
if it is narrated in a conversationam ong nurses, but it m eans ?to earn one?s liv ingby oneself ?
in general, as w hen it is narrated ina conversation betw een a nurse and a patien t?sfam ily.
Thus som e words have m ultip le m ean-ings accord ing to the situation .
A s a resu lt, som e-tim es nurses, especially novice nurses, experi-ence m isunderstanding in their communications.A nother exam ple is ?????
(horyu)?, w hichm eans ?suspend giv ing m edicine?
or ?keep a stingstung?.
Therefore, w e th ink w e w ill be able togather m any words that have m ultip le m eaningswhen w e check the collected corpora.
This w illallow us to build or extend the contents of a dic-tionary of m ultip le-m eaning expressions.In our studies.
w e also observed the fo llow ingcases:?
multip le expressions?
??
(sek i)?
and ????gaisou??
m eantussis and coughing?
??
(nyou)?
and ????
(harun)?, and ??????oshikko)?
?mean urine andpee?
???
(tounyou)?
and ?????
(d i-abe)?
and ?DM ?
?mean sugar d iabetes(d iabetic m ellitus)These types of expressions are used to hidethe real m eaning from patien ts, and they?resom etim es used because the expression iscurren tly fash ionable.?
abbreviated expressions?
????an??
?
means am pule?
???
?m iri)?
m eans m illiliter or m il-lig ram?
????
(bun-n i)?
m eans half or twotim es?
??????
(nobo-aaru)?
m eans No-volin R , which is a m edication for d ia-betesThese types of expressions seem to be usedfor quick communication .
In particu lar,m edications are som etim e shortened in toshorter words, such as Novolin R into Ronly.These expressions are relatively frequentlyused and som etim es seem to cause nursing acci-dents or incidents due to m iscommunication .We think w e w ill be able to obtain m any con-cepts that have m ultip le expressions and abbre-46viated expressions by checking the collected cor-pora.
Then w e could build or extend contents ofa m ultip le-expression concept d ictionary and anabbreviated-expression dictionary.To develop a support system for nursing ac-tiv ities, w e should standard ize technical nursingterm s. H owever, there are m any types of term sused in typical nurses?
d ialogues.
For exam ple,nurses uses?
adm ission to a hospital expressed as ?AD??
?AD?
orig inates from ?adm ission?
in En-glish?
discharge from hospital expressed as ????
(en to)??
????
(en to)?
orig inates from entlassen inG erm anFurtherm ore, there are m any new m edicinesused in hospitals.
It is d ifficult to uniform ly m an-age these new words.
The standard ization ofnursing term s thus has m any problem s.We think that even am biguous words can beunderstood if w e recognize nurses?
working sit-uations by using the inform ation of m any typesof sensors.
This would require using a positionsensor to identify nurses?
working locations asw ell as w ho is participating in conversations.
Wecould supplem ent m issing inform ation and com -plete or correct am biguous inform ation by refer-ring to such inform ation from sensors.4.3 Feature as Spoken Language CorporaA chronological relationship or dependency m apam ong nurses can be accurately obtained by refer-ring to nursing records and m edical charts.
Con-ventional d ialogue corpora can only offer one-to-one conversations, perm itting only a sim ple anal-ysis.
In addition , it is easy to m ake a w rong anal-ysis.O n the other hand, if w e analyze our corporaw ith a chronological relationship or dependencyam ong nurses, w e can discover true features ofconversation phenom ena.
For instance, person Aexchanges inform ation w ith person B , but personB m isunderstands person A?s inform ation .
PersonB conveys the inform ation to person C .
Then C re-alizes B ?s m isunderstanding and inform s B so thatB can correct the inform ation .
Thus w e can obtaincommunication patterns betw een m ore than twopersons who do not know each other?s situation .To utilize the dictionaries obtained from ourcorpora and sensor inform ation , w e can build aset of onto logies for conversations betw een m ul-tip le persons.
In build ing a set of onto logies, them echanism of conversations can be clarified , anda m ethod for finding poin ts of m istakes given am -biguous expressions can be exam ined .In th is paper, w e focus on nursing vocabulariesand nursing activ ities.
O f course they are sligh tlydifferen t from general term s and general situa-tions, but these corpora and dictionary-build ingtechniques can be applied to general term s andsituations betw een ?
spoken language and w rit-ten language.In finish ing the transcrip tion of the clin icalm eetings and event-driven data, w e are build ingthe corpora.
H ere w e note that it is d ifficult to tagM ED and D IS because there are m ultip le expres-sions and abbreviated expressions.
We need todevelop a way to designate standard expressionsfrom the m ultip le and abbreviated expressions.5 ConclusionIn th is paper, w e in troduced our E -nightingalepro ject.
We also show ed voice data collection ina real workplace such as a hospital and discussedthe im portance and potential of generating cor-pora from this data.In the next step , all of the collected voicedata w ill be m ade in to corpora, and tags w ill bem ade to construct know ledge based on experi-ences from conversation corpora.
Furtherm ore,w e w ill develop m ethods to build corpora fromcollected data autom atically.
F rom this corpora,w e w ill develop a system to analyze actual d ia-47logues and activ ities in a real nursing situationsby utiliz ing m ulti-sensor inform ation .AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank the nurses involved inth is study for their cooperation in our experim ent.This research is funded by the N ational Institu teof Inform ation and Communications Technology.ReferencesL .
T. Kohn, J. M .
Corrlgan and M .
S .
D onaldson .1999.
To Err Is Human:Building a Safer HealthSystem.
The N ational A cadem ic Press, N ov.
1999.H ealthcare Safety Prom otion N etwork Project.h ttp ://www.m hlw.go .jp /top ics/2001/0110/tp1030-1 .h tm l#2-1 .
(in Japanese).Kyoto Text Corpus.
h ttp ://www.kc.t.u -tokyo.ac.jp /n l-resource/corpus-e.h tm l.K .
M aekawa.
2003.
Corpus of SpontaneousJapanese: Its design and evaluation.
P roceedingsof the ISCA & IEEE workshop on SpontaneousSpeech Processing and Recognition .
SSPR2003.H .
Koiso , N .
T suchiya, Y. M abuchi, M .
Saito , T.K agom iya, H .
K ikuchi, and K .
M aekawa.
2000.Transcription Criteria for the Corpus of Sponta-neous Japanese.
Special In terest G roup of SponkenLanguage Processing .
Vol.
34-30 , pp .
173-178. inJapanese.M .
A raki, T Itoh , T. Kum agai, and M .
Ish izaki.
1999.Proposal of a Standard Utterance-Unit TaggingScheme.
Transcrip tion of the Japanese Society forA rtificial In telligence Vol.
14 , N o.
2 , pp .
251-260.in Japanese.N .
Kuwahara, H .
N om a, N .
Tetsu tan i, N .
H agita , K .Kogure, and H .
Iseki.
2003 Auto-event-recordingfor Nursing Operations by Using Wearable Sensors.In form ation Processing Society of Japan Vol.
44 ,N o.
11 , pp .
2638-2548. in Japanese.N .
Kuwahara, K .
Kogure, N .
H agita , and H .
Iseki2004.
Ubiquitous and Wearable Sensing for Mon-itoring Nurses?
Activities.
Transcrip tion of theJapanese Society for A ritificial In telligence Proc.of SC I2004, pp .
281-285.NExT ?
Nam ed Entity Extraction Tool.h ttp ://www.ai.in fo .m ie-u .ac.jp /n?ex t/next en .h tm l.ChaSen ?
Morphological A nalysis System .http ://chasen .naist.jp /h ik i/ChaSen/48
