Detecting the Countability of English Compound Nouns UsingWeb-based ModelsJing PengLanguage Media LaboratoryHokkaido UniversityKita-14, Nishi-9, Kita-ku,Sapporo, JAPANpj@media.eng.hokudai.ac.jpKenji ArakiLanguage Media LaboratoryHokkaido UniversityKita-14, Nishi-9, Kita-ku,Sapporo, JAPANaraki@media.eng.hokudai.ac.jpAbstractIn this paper, we proposed an approachfor detecting the countability of Englishcompound nouns treating the web asa large corpus of words.
We classifiedcompound nouns into three classes:countable, uncountable, plural only.Our detecting algorithm is based onsimple, viable n-gram models, whoseparameters can be obtained using theWWW search engine Google.
The de-tecting thresholds are optimized on thesmall training set.
Finally weexperimentally showed that ouralgorithm based on these simplemodels could perform the promisingresults with a precision of 89.2% on thetotal test set.1 IntroductionIn English, a noun can be countable or uncount-able.
Countable nouns can be "counted", theyhave a singular and plural form.
For example: anapple, two apples, three apples.
Uncountablenouns cannot be counted.
This means they haveonly a singular form, such as water, rice, wine.Countability is the semantic property that de-termines whether a noun can occur in singularand plural forms.
We can obtain the informationabout countability of individual nouns easilyfrom grammar books or dictionaries.
Severalresearchers have explored automatically learn-ing the countability of English nouns (Bond andVatikiotis-Bateson, 2002; Schwartz, 2002;Baldwin and Bond, 2003).
However, all the pro-posed approaches focused on learning thecountability of individual nouns.A compound noun is a noun that is made upof two or more words.
Most compound nouns inEnglish are formed by nouns modified by othernouns or adjectives.
In this paper, we concen-trate solely on compound nouns made up of onlytwo words, as they account for the vast majorityof compound nouns.
There are three forms ofcompound words: the closed form, in which thewords are melded together, such as ?songwriter?,?softball?, ?scoreboard?
; the hyphenated form,such as ?daughter-in-law?, ?master-at-arms?
;and the open form, such as ?post office?, ?realestate?, ?middle class?.Compound words create special problemswhen we need to know their countability.
Ac-cording to ?Guide to English Grammar andWriting?, the base element within the compoundnoun will generally function as a regular nounfor the countability, such as  ?Bedrooms?.
How-ever this rule is highly irregular.
Some uncount-able nouns occur in their plural forms withincompound nouns, such as ?mineral waters?
(wa-ter is usually considered as uncountable noun).The countability of some words changes whenoccur in different compound nouns.
?Rag?
iscountable noun, while ?kentish rag?
is uncount-able; ?glad rags?
is plural only.
?Wages?
is plu-ral only, but ?absolute wage?
and ?standardwage?
are countable.
So it is obvious that de-termining countability of a compound nounshould take all its elements into account, notconsider solely on the base word.The number of compound nouns is so largethat it is impossible to collect all of them in one103dictionary, which also need to be updated fre-quently, for newcoined words are being createdcontinuously, and most of them are compoundnouns, such as ?leisure sickness?, ?Green fam-ine?.Knowledge of countability of compoundnouns is very important in English text genera-tion.
The research is motivated by our project:post-edit translation candidates in machinetranslation.
In Baldwin and Bond (2003), theyalso mentioned that many languages, such asChinese and Japanese, do not mark countability,so how to determine the appropriate form oftranslation candidates is depend on the knowl-edge of countability.
For example, the correcttranslation for ?????1?
is ?growing pains?,not ?growing pain?.In this paper, we learn the countability ofEnglish compound nouns using WWW as alarge corpus.
For many compound nouns, espe-cially the relatively new words, such as geneticpollution, have not yet reached any dictionaries.we believe that using the web-scale data can bea viable alternative to avoid the sparseness prob-lem from smaller corpora.
We classified com-pound nouns into three classes: countable (eg.,bedroom), uncountable (eg,.
cash money), pluralonly (eg,.
crocodile tears).
To detect which classa compound noun is, we proposed some simple,viable n-gram models, such as freq(N) (the fre-quency of the singular form of the noun) whoseparameters?
values (web hits of literal queries)can be obtained with the help of WWW searchengine Google.
The detecting thresholds (a nounwhose value of parameter is above the thresholdis considered as plural only) are estimated on thesmall countability-tagged training set.
Finallywe evaluated our detecting approach on a testset and showed that our algorithm based on thesimple models performed the promising results.Querying in WWW adds noise to the data,we certainly lose some precision compared tosupervised statistical models, but we assume thatthe size of the WWW will compensate the roughqueries.
Keller and Lapata (2003) also showedthe evidence of the reliability of the web countsfor natural language processing.
In (Lapata andKeller, 2005), they also investigated the count-ability leaning task for nouns.
However they1 ??????
(fa yu xing tong) which is Chinese compoundnoun means ?growing pains?.only distinguish between countable and un-countable for individual nouns.
The best modelis the determiner-noun model, which achieves88.62% on countable and 91.53% on uncount-able nouns.In section 2 of the paper, we describe Themain approach used in the paper.
The prepara-tion of the training and test data is introduced insection 3.
The details of the experiments andresults are presented in section 4.
Finally, in sec-tion 5 we list our conclusions.2  Our approachWe classified compound nouns into threeclasses, countable, uncountable and plural only.In Baldwin and Bond (2003), they classifiedindividual nouns into four possible classes.
Be-sides the classes mentioned above, they alsoconsidered bipartite nouns.
These words canonly be plural when they head a noun phrase(trousers), but singular when used as a modifier(trouser leg).
We did not take this class into ac-count in the paper, for the bipartite words isvery few in compound nouns.C-nounFigure 1.
Detecting processing flowFor plural only compound noun, we assumethat the frequency of the word occurrence in theplural form is much larger than that in the singu-lar form, while for the uncountable noun, thefrequency in the singular form is much largerthan that in the plural form.
The main processingflow is shown in Figure 1.
In the figure, ?C-noun?
and ?Ns?
mean compound noun and theplural form of the word respectively.?F(Ns)>>F(N)?
means that the frequency of theplural form of the noun is much larger than thatof the singular form.F(N)>>F(Ns)plural onlyuncountablitycountablityF(Ns)>>F(N) YNYN104Our approach for detecting countability isbased on some simple unsupervised models.??
)()(NfNsf(1)In (1), we use the frequency of a word in theplural form against that in the singular form.
?is the detecting threshold above which the wordcan be considered as a plural only.??
),(),(NsmanyfNmuchf(2)In (2), we use the frequency of a word in thesingular form co-occurring with the determiner?much?
against the frequency of the word in theplural form with many, if above ?
, the word canbe considered as uncountable word.
(2) is usedto distinguish between countable and uncount-able compound nouns.??
),(),(isNfareNsf(3)The model 3 that compares the frequenciesof noun-be pairs (eg,.
f(?account books are?
),f(?account book is?)
is used to distinguish pluralonly and countable compound nouns.With the help of WWW search engineGoogle, the frequencies (web hits) in the modelscan be obtained using quoted n-gram queries(?soft surroundings?).
Although in Keller andLapata (2002), they experimentally showed thatweb-based approach can overcome data sparse-ness for bigrams, but the problem still exists inour experiments.
When the number of pagesfound is zero, we smooth zero hits by addingthem to 0.01.Countable compound nouns create someproblems when we need to pluralize them.
Forno real rules exist for how to pluralize all thewords, we summarized from ?Guide to EnglishGrammar and Writing?
for some trends.
Weprocessed our experimental data following therules below.1.
Pluralize the last word of the compoundnoun.
Eg,.
bedrooms, film stars.2.
When ?woman?
or ?man?
are the modi-fiers in the compound noun, pluralizeboth of the words.
Eg,.
Women-drivers.3.
When the compound noun is made up as?noun + preposition (or prep.
phrase)?,pluralize the noun.
Eg,.
fathers-in-law.4.
When the compound noun is made up as?verb (or past participle) + adverb?, plu-ralize the last word.
Eg,.
grown-ups,stand-bys.Although the rules cannot adapt for eachcompound noun, in our experimental data, allthe countable compound nouns follow the rules.We are sure that the rules are viable for mostcountable compound nouns.Although we used Google as our search en-gine, we did not use Google Web API servicefor programme realization, for Google limits to1000 automated queries per day.
As we justneed web hits returned for each search query, weextracted the numbers of hits from the webpages found directly.3 Experimental DataThe main experimental data is from Webster?sNew International Dictionary (Second Edition).The list of compound words of the dictionary isavailable in the Internet2.
We selected the com-pound words randomly from the list and keepthe nouns, for the word list also mixes com-pound verbs and adjectives with nouns together.We repeated the process several times until gotour experimental data.
We collected 3000 wordsfor the training which is prepared for optimizingthe detecting thresholds, and 500 words for thetest set which is used to evaluate our approach.In the sets we added 180 newcoined compoundnouns (150 for training; 30 for test).
These rela-tively new words that were created over the pastseven years have not yet reached any dictionari-es3.Countability Training set Test setPlural only 80 21Countable 2154 352Uncountable 766 127Total 3000 500Table 1.
The make-up of the experimental dataWe manually annotated the countability ofthese compound nouns, plural only, countable,uncountable.
An English teacher who is a nativespeaker has checked and corrected the annota-tions.
The make-up of the experimental data islisted in Table 1.2 The compound word list is available from http://www.puzzlers.org/wordlists/dictinfo.php.3 The new words used in the paper can be found in http://www.worldwidewords.org/genindex-pz.htm1054 Experiments and Results4.1 Detecting plural only compound nounsPlural only compound nouns that have not sin-gular forms always occur in plural forms.
Thefrequency of their singular forms should be zero.Considering the noise data introduced by searchengine, we used model (1) and (3) in turn to de-tect plural noun.
We detected plural only com-pound nouns with the following algorithm(Figure 2), which is used to distinguish betweenplural only and non-plural only compound.Figure 2.
Detecting algorithm for plural onlyThe problem is how to decide the twothresholds.
We preformed exhaustive search toadjust ?
1, ?
2 optimized on the training set.With 0  ?
?
1,?
2 20, all possible pair valuesare tried with the stepsize of 1.?ABAcall =Re                  (4)ACAecision =Pr             (5)callecisioncallecisionscoreFRePrRePr2+??=?
(6)We use Recall and Precision to evaluate theperformance with the different threshold pairs.The fundamental Recall/Precision definition isadapted to IE system evaluation.
We borrowedthe measures using the following definition forour evaluation.
For one experiment with a cer-tain threshold pair, A stands for the number ofplural found correctly; AB stands for the totalnumber of plural only compound nouns in train-ing set (80 words); AC stands for the total num-ber of compound nouns found.
The Recall andPrecision are defined in (4) and (5).
We alsointroduced F-score when we need consider theRecall and Precision at the same time, and in thepaper, F-score is calculated according to (6).Figure 3 shows the performance  evaluatedby the three measures when ?
1=8 and 0 ??
2?
10 with a stepsize of 1.
We set ?
2 to 5 forthe test later, and accordingly the values of Re-call, Precision and F-score are 91.25%, 82.95%and 87.40% respectively.Recall/Precision/F-score0%20%40%60%80%100%0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10thresholdAccuracy RecallPrecisionF-scoreFigure 3.
The Recall/Precision/F-score graph(?
1=8 and 0?
?
2?
10)if  ( 1)()( ?
?NfNsf)then plural only;else if ( 2),(),( ?
?isNfareNsf)then plural only;elsecountable or uncountable;4.2 Detecting uncountable compoundnounsUncountable compound nouns that have not plu-ral form always occur in singular form.if ( N is not plural only)then if  ( 3)()( ?
?NsfNf)then uncountable;else if ( 4),(),( ?
?NsmanyfNmuchf)then uncountable;elsecountable;Figure 4.
Detecting algorithm for uncountablecompound nounsThe algorithm detecting uncountable compoundnouns is shown in Figure 4.
Using model (1) and(2), we attempted to fully make use of the char-acteristic of uncountable compound nouns, thatis the frequencies of their occurrence in the sin-gular forms are much larger than that in the plu-ral forms.106The method to obtain the optimal threshold?
3 and ?
4 is the same to 4.1.
We set ?
3 to 24,?
4 to 2, and the values of Recall, Precision andF-score are 88.38%, 80.27% and 84.13% respec-tively.4.3 Performance on the test suiteWe evaluated our complete algorithm with thefour thresholds (?
1=8,?
2=5, ?
3=24, ?
4=2)on the test set, and the detecting results aresummarized in Table 2.
There are 352 countablecompound nouns in our test set, then when clas-sify all the test words as countable, we can atleast get the accuracy of 70.4%.
We used it asour baseline.
The accuracy on the total test dateis 89.2% that significantly outperforms the base-line.
For the 30 newcoined compound nouns, thedetecting accuracy is 100%.
This can be ex-plained by their infrequence.
Newcoined wordsare not prone to produce noise data than othersjust because they are not occurring regularly.Correct Incorrect Recall Precision F-scorePlural only 18 4 85.71% 81.81% 83.71%Countable 320 22 90.90% 93.57% 92.22%Uncountable 108 28 85.04% 79.41% 82.15%Total 446 54 89.2% 89.2% 89.2%Table 2.
The accuracy on the test suit5 ConclusionFrom the results, we show that simpleunsupervised web-based models can achieve thepromising results on the test data.
For weroughly adjusted the threshold with stepsize of 1,better performance is expected with stepsize ofsuch as 0.1.It is unreasonable to compare the detectingresults of individual and compound nouns witheach other since using web-based models, com-pound nouns made up of two or more words aremore likely to be affected by data sparseness,while individual nouns are prone to producemore noise data because of their high occur-rence frequencies.Anyway using WWW is an exciting direc-tion for NLP, how to eliminate noise data is thekey to improve web-based methods.
Our nextstep is aiming at evaluating the internet resource,distinguishing the useful and noise data.ReferencesBaldwin, Timothy and Francis Bond.2003.
Learningthe countability of English nouns from corpus data.In Proceedings of the 41st Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.
Sap-poro, Japan, 463-470.Francis Bond and Caitlin Vatikiotis-Basteson.
202.Using an ontology to determine English countabil-ity.
In Proceeding of the 19th International confer-ence on computational Linguistics (COLING2002), Taipei, Taiwan.Keller, F, Lapata, M. and Ourioupina, O.
2002.
Us-ing the web to overcome data sparseness.
In Pro-ceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing.
Philadelphia.230-237.Keller, F and Lapata, M. 2003.
Using the web to ob-tain frequencies for unseen bigrams.
Computa-tional Linguistics 29, 3, 459-484.Lapata, M and Keller, F. 2004.
The web as a baseline:Evaluating the performance of unsupervised web-based models for a range of NLP tasks.
In Pro-ceedings of the Human Language TechnologyConference of the North American Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.
Boston,Lapata, M and Keller, F. Web-based Models forNatural Language Processing.
To appear in 2005ACM Transactions on Speech and LanguageProcessing.Lane O.B.
Schwartz.
2002.
Corpus-based acquisitionof head noun countability features.
Master?s thesis,Cambridge University, Cambridge, UK.Guide to English Grammar and Writing.
http:// cctc.commnet.edu/grammar/107
