Aligning Needles in a Haystack: ParaphraseAcquisition Across the WebMarius Pas?ca and Pe?ter DienesGoogle Inc.,1600 Amphitheatre Parkway,Mountain View, California, 94043, USA{mars, dienes}@google.comAbstract.
This paper presents a lightweight method for unsupervisedextraction of paraphrases from arbitrary textual Web documents.
Themethod differs from previous approaches to paraphrase acquisition inthat 1) it removes the assumptions on the quality of the input data,by using inherently noisy, unreliable Web documents rather than clean,trustworthy, properly formatted documents; and 2) it does not requireany explicit clue indicating which documents are likely to encode parallelparaphrases, as they report on the same events or describe the same sto-ries.
Large sets of paraphrases are collected through exhaustive pairwisealignment of small needles, i.e., sentence fragments, across a haystackof Web document sentences.
The paper describes experiments on a setof about one billion Web documents, and evaluates the extracted para-phrases in a natural-language Web search application.1 IntroductionThe information captured in textual documents frequently encodes semanticallyequivalent ideas through different lexicalizations.
Indeed, given the generativepower of natural language, different people employ different words or phrases toconvey the same meaning, depending on factors such as background knowledge,level of expertise, style, verbosity and personal preferences.
Two equivalent frag-ments of text may differ only slightly, as a word or a phrase in one of themis paraphrased in the other, e.g., through a synonym.
Yet even small lexicalvariations represent challenges to any automatic decision on whether two textfragments have the same meaning, or are relevant to each other, since they areno longer lexically identical.
Many natural-language intensive applications makesuch decisions internally.
In document summarization, the generated summarieshave a higher quality if redundant information has been discarded by detectingtext fragments with the same meaning [1].
In information extraction, extrac-tion templates will not be filled consistently whenever there is a mismatch inthe trigger word or the applicable extraction pattern [2].
Similarly, a questionanswering system could incorrectly discard a relevant document passage basedon the absence of a question phrase deemed as very important [3], even if thepassage actually contains a legitimate paraphrase.R.
Dale et al (Eds.
): IJCNLP 2005, LNAI 3651, pp.
119?130, 2005.c?
Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2005120 M. Pas?ca and P. DienesIn information retrieval, deciding whether a text fragment (e.g., a document)is relevant to another text fragment (i.e., the query) is crucial to the overall out-put, rather than merely useful within some internal system module.
Indeed,relevant documents or passages may be missed, due to the apparent mismatchbetween their terms and the paraphrases occurring in the users?
queries.
Thepreviously proposed solutions to the mismatch problem vary with respect to thesource of the data used for enriching the query with alternative terms.
In auto-matic query expansion, the top documents provide additional query terms [4].
Analternative is to attempt to identify the concepts captured in the queries and findsemantically similar concepts in external resources, e.g., lexical databases [5, 6].This paper explores a different direction, namely the unsupervised acquisitionof large sets of paraphrases from unstructured text within Web documents, andtheir exploitation in natural-language Web search.We present a lightweight method for unsupervised extraction of paraphrasesfrom arbitrary, textual Web documents.
The method taps the textual contentsprovided by millions of anonymous Web document contributors.
The remainderof the paper is structured as follows.
After a condensed overview of the para-phrase acquisition method and a contrast to previous literature in Section 2,Section 3 presents the method in more detail.
Section 4 describes evaluationresults when applying the method to textual documents from a Web repositorysnapshot of the Google search engine.2 Method at a GlanceThe proposed acquisition method collects large sets of word and phrase-levelparaphrases via exhaustive pairwise alignment of small needles, i.e., sentencefragments, across a haystack of Web document sentences.
The acquisition ofparaphrases is a side-effect of the alignment.In the example in Figure 1, if two sentence fragments have common wordsequences at both extremities, then the variable word sequences in the middleare potential paraphrases of each other.
A significant advantage of this extractionmechanism is that it can acquire paraphrases from sentences whose informationcontent overlaps only partially, as long as the fragments align.
Indeed, the sourcesentences of the paraphrase (withdrew from, pulled out of), as well as of (tookeffect, came into force), are arguably quite different overall in Figure 1.
Moreover,the sentences are part of documents whose content intersection is very small.In addition to its relative simplicity when compared to more complex,sentence-level paraphrase acquisition [7], the method introduced in this paperis a departure from previous approaches in several respects.
First, the para-phrases are not limited to variations of specialized, domain-specific terms asin [8], nor are they restricted to a narrow class such as verb paraphrases [9].Second, as opposed to virtually all previous approaches, the method does notrequire high-quality, clean, trustworthy, properly-formatted input data.
Instead,it uses inherently noisy, unreliable Web documents.
The source data in [10] isalso a set of Web documents.
However, it is based on top search results collectedAligning Needles in a Haystack 121Web repositoryhttp://www.rantburg.com/default.asp?D=1/13/2004&C=India?PakistanAfter 1989, when Soviet troops withdrew from Afghanistan, the mujahedeen fought a civil war againstthe Afghan government, which devastated the country, Kabul in particular.Do cu me ntsF ra gme nts 1989, when Soviet troops withdrew from Afghanistan1989, when Soviet troops pulled out of Afghanistan pulled out ofwithdrew fromBut Washington has steadily downgraded its involvement in and financial commitment to the regionsince 1989, when Soviet troops pulled out of Afghanistan.http://www.tamil.net/list/2001?09/msg00404.htmlwww.wvu.edu/~law/wvjolt/Arch/Nevin/Nevin.htmThe Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, which took effect in October 2000,established standards for the use of digital authentication.S en te nc esDo cu me ntsS en te nc esF ra gme nts Act, which took effect in October 2000Act, which came into force in October 2000took effectcame into forceThe United States passed federal e?commerce legislation, the Electronic Signatures in Global andNational Commerce Act, which came into force in October 2000.www.ahbl.ca/library/High?Tech%20&%20Innovation/lookback?lookforward?mar2001.pdfFig.
1.
Paraphrase acquisition from unstructured text across the Webfrom external search engines, and its quality benefits implicitly from the rank-ing functions of the search engines.
Third, the input documents here are notrestricted to a particular genre, whereas virtually all other recent approachesare designed for collections of parallel news articles, whether the articles arepart of a carefully-compiled collection [11] or aggressively collected from Webnews sources [12].
Fourth, the acquisition of paraphrases in this paper does notrely on external clues and attributes that two documents are parallel and mustreport on the same or very similar events.
Comparatively, previous work hasexplicit access to, and relies strongly on clues such as the same or very similartimestamps being associated to two news article documents [11], or knowledgethat two documents are translations by different people of the same book intothe same language [13].3 Mining the Web for ParaphrasesThe use of the Web as input data source strongly impacts the design of themethod, since the average Web document is much noisier and less reliable thandocuments in standard textual collections.
Furthermore, the separation of usefultextual information from other items within the document is trivial in standard122 M. Pas?ca and P. Dienescollections.
In contrast, Web documents contain extraneous html information,formatting errors, intra- and inter-document inconsistencies, spam and otheradversarial information, and in general they lack any assumptions regarding acommon document structure.
Consequently, the acquisition of paraphrases mustbe robust, handle Web documents with only minimal linguistic processing, avoidexpensive operations, and scale to billions of sentences.3.1 Document Pre-processingAs a pre-requisite to the actual acquisition of paraphrases, the Web documentsare converted from raw string representations into more meaningful linguisticunits.
After filtering out html tags, the documents are tokenized, split intosentences and part-of-speech tagged with the TnT tagger [14].
Many of thecandidate sentences are in fact random noise caused by the inconsistent structure(or complete lack thereof) of Web documents, among other factors.
To improvethe quality of the data, sentences are retained for further processing only ifthey satisfy the following lightweight sanity checks: 1) they are reasonably sized:sentences containing less than 5 words or more than 30 words are discarded; 2)they contain at least one verb that is neither a gerund nor a modal verb; 3) theycontain at least one non-verbal word starting in lower-case; 4) none of the wordsis longer than 30 characters; and 5) less than half of the words are numbers.Since the experiments use a collection of English documents, these checks aregeared towards English.3.2 Acquisition via Text Fragment AlignmentAt Web scale, the number of sentences that pass the fairly aggressive sanitychecks during document pre-processing is still extremely large, easily exceed-ing one billion.
Any brute-force alignment of all pairs of document sentences istherefore unfeasible.
Instead, the acquisition of paraphrases operates at the levelof text fragments (ngrams) as shown in Figure 2.The extraction algorithm roughly consists of the following three phases:?
Generate candidate ngrams from all sentences (steps 1 through 5 in Figure 2);?
Convert each ngram into a ready-to-align pair of a variable fragment (acandidate paraphrase) and a constant textual anchor (steps 6 through 13);?
Group the pairs with the same anchors; collect the variable fragments withineach group of pairs as potential paraphrases of one another (steps 14 to 20).The algorithm starts with the generation of candidate ngrams, by collectingall possible ngrams such that their length varies within pre-defined boundaries.More precisely, an ngram starts and ends in a fixed number of words (LC);the count of the additional (ngram) words in-between varies within pre-definedlimits (MinP and MaxP , respectively).The concatenation of the fixed-length left (CstL) and right (CstR) extremi-ties of the ngram forms a textual anchor for the variable fragment (V ar) in themiddle.
The variable fragment becomes a potential candidate for a paraphrase:Aligning Needles in a Haystack 123Input: 6 For each ngram Ni in {N}{S} set of sentences 7 LNi = length of NiLC length of constant extremities 8 CstL| = subseq [0, LC -1] of NiMinP , MaxP paraphrase length bounds 9 CstR = subseq [LNiLC , LNi -1] of NiVars: 10 V ari = subseq [LC , LNi -LC-1] of Ni{N} set of ngrams with attached info 11 Anchori = concat of CstL| and CstR{P} set of pairs (anchor, candidate) 12 Anchori = concat of Atti and Anchori{R} set of paraphrase pairs with freq info 13 Insert pair (Anchori,V ari) into {P}Output: {R} 14 Sort pairs in {P} based on their anchorSteps: 15 For each {Pi} ?
{P} with same anchor1 {R} = {N} = {P} = empty set; 16 For all item pairs Pi1 and Pi2 in {Pi}2 For each sentence Si in {S} 17 V ari1 = variable part of pair Pi13 Generate ngrams Nij between length 18 V ari2 = variable part of pair Pi22 ?
LC + MinP and 2 ?
LC + MaxP 19 Incr.
count of (V ari1 ,V ari2) in {R}4 For each Nij , attach addtl.
info Attij 20 Incr.
count of (V ari2 ,V ari1) in {R}5 Insert Nij with Attij into {N} 21 Return {R}Fig.
2.
Algorithm for paraphrase acquisition from Web document sentences(S1) Together they form the Platte River ,which eventually?
??
?CstLflows?
??
?V arinto the Gulf?
??
?CstRof Mexico.Whenever the anchors of two or more ngrams are the same, their variable frag-ments are considered to be potential paraphrases of each other, thus implement-ing a const-var-const type of alignment.3.3 Alignment AnchorsAccording to the simplified discussion from above, the algorithm in Figure 2 mayalign two sentence fragments ?decided to read the government report publishedlast month?
and ?decided to read the edition published last month?
to incorrectlyproduce government report and edition as potential paraphrases of each other.To avoid such alignments, Steps 4 and 12 of the algorithm enrich the anchoringtext around each paraphrase candidate, namely by extending the anchors to in-clude additional information from the source sentence.
By doing so, the anchorsbecome longer and more specific, and thus closer to expressing the same informa-tion content.
In turn, this reduces the chances of any two ngrams to align, sincengram alignment requires the complete matching of the corresponding anchors.In other words, the amount of information captured in the anchors is a trade-offbetween coverage (when anchors are less specific) and accuracy of the acquiredparaphrases (when the anchors are more specific).
At the low end, less specificanchors include only immediate contextual information.
This corresponds to thealgorithm in Figure 2, when nothing is attached to any of the ngrams in Step4.
At the high end, one could collect all the remaining words of the sentenceoutside the ngram, and attach them to more specific anchors in Step 4.
This isequivalent to pairwise alignment of full-length sentences.We explore three different ways of collecting additional anchoring informationfrom the sentences:124 M. Pas?ca and P. DienesTable 1.
Examples of paraphrase pairs collected from the Web with one of Ngram-Entity or Ngram-Relative, but not with the otherOnly with Ngram-Entity Only with Ngram-Relativeabduction, kidnapping abolished, outlawedbachelor degree, bachelors degree abolished slavery, freed the slavescause, result in causes, results inindicate, specify carries, transmitsinner product space, vector space died from, succumbed tokill, murder empties into, flows toobligations, responsibilities funds, pays forregistered service marks, registered trademarks means, stands forvideo poker betting, video poker gambling penned, wrotex-mas gift, x-mas present seized, took over?
Ngram-Only: The anchor includes only the contextual information assembledfrom the fixed-length extremities of the ngram.
Nothing else is attached tothe anchor.?
Ngram-Entity: In addition to Ngram-Only, the anchor contains the preced-ing and following named entities that are nearest to the ngram.
Sentenceswithout such named entities are discarded.
The intuition is that the ngramcontains information which relates the two entities to each other.?
Ngram-Relative: On top of Ngram-Only, the anchor includes the remain-ing words of the adverbial relative clause in which the variable part of thengram appears, e.g., ?when Soviet Union troops pulled out of Afghanistan?,or ?which came into force in 2000?
in Figure 1.
The clause must modify anamed entity or a date, which is also included in the anchor.
Sentences notcontaining such clauses are rejected.
1 The intuitive motivation in that theentity is related to part of the ngram via the adverbial particle.For illustration, consider the earlier example of the sentence S1 from Sec-tion 3.2.
With Ngram-Entity, Platte River (preceding entity) and Mexico (fol-lowing entity) are included in the anchor.
In comparison, with Ngram-Relativethe additional information combines Platte River (entity) and of Mexico (remain-der of relative clause).
In this example, the difference between Ngram-Entity andNgram-Relative happens to be quite small.
In general, however, the differencesare more significant.
Table 1 illustrates paraphrases collected from the Web byonly one of the two anchoring mechanisms.To ensure robustness on Web document sentences, simple heuristics ratherthan complex tools are used to approximate the additional information attachedto ngrams in Ngram-Entity and Ngram-Relative.
Named entities are approxi-mated by proper nouns, as indicated by part-of-speech tags.
Adverbial relativeclauses, together with the entities or dates they modify, are detected accordingto a small set of lexico-syntactic patterns which can be summarized as:?
[Date|Entity] [,|-|(|nil] [Wh] RelClause [,|-|)|.
]?1 By discarding many sentences, Ngram-Relative sacrifices recall in favor of precision.Aligning Needles in a Haystack 125where Wh is one of who, when, which or where.
The patterns are based mainly onwh-words and punctuation.
The matching adverbial clause RelClause must sat-isfy a few other constraints, which aim at avoiding, rather than solving, complexlinguistic phenomena.
First, personal and possessive pronouns are often refer-ences to other entities.
Therefore clauses containing such pronouns are discardedas ambiguous.
Second, appositives and other similar pieces of information areconfusing when detecting the end of the current clause.
Consequently, duringpattern matching, if the current clause does not contain a verb, the clause iseither extended to the right, or discarded upon reaching the end of the sentence.4 EvaluationThe input data for paraphrase acquisition is a collection of 972 million Webdocuments, from a Web repository snapshot of the Google search engine taken in2003.
All documents are in English.
The parameters controlling the length of thengrams and candidate paraphrases, introduced in Figure 2, are LC=3, MinP =1and MaxP =4.
2 The anchors use additional information from the sentences,resulting in separate runs and sets of paraphrases extracted with Ngram-Only,Ngram-Entity and Ngram-Relative respectively.
The experiments use a parallelprogramming model [15].
The extracted paraphrase pairs that co-occur veryinfrequently (i.e., in less than 5 unique ngram pairs) are discarded.4.1 Quantitative ResultsThe sanity checks applied in document pre-processing (see Section 3.1) discarda total of 187 billion candidate sentences from the input documents, with anaverage of 3 words per sentence.
In the case of Ngram-Only, paraphrases are ex-tracted from the remaining 9.5 billion sentences, which have 17 words on average.As explained in Section 3.3, Ngram-Entity and Ngram-Relative apply a set of ad-ditional constraints as they search the sentences for more anchoring information.Ngram-Entity discards 72 million additional sentences.
In contrast, as many as9.3 billion sentences are rejected by the constraints encoded in Ngram-Relative.The number of paraphrase pairs extracted from the Web varies with theparticular kind of anchoring mechanism.
The simplest one, i.e., Ngram-Only,produces 41,763,994 unique pairs that co-occur in at least 5 different ngrams.With Ngram-Relative, the output consists of 13,930 unique pairs.
In comparison,Ngram-Entity generates 101,040 unique pairs.
Figure 3 shows that the numberof acquired paraphrases varies more or less linearly in the size of the input data.The large majority of the paraphrase pairs contain either two single-wordphrases (40% for Ngram-Entity, and 49% for Ngram-Relative), or one single-word and one multi-word phrase (22% for Ngram-Entity, and 43% for Ngram-Relative).
Table 2 illustrates the top paraphrase pairs with two multi-wordphrases, after removal of paraphrases containing only stop words, or upper/lower2 No experiments were performed with higher values for MaxP (to collect longerparaphrases), or higher/lower values for LC (to use more/less context for alignment).126 M. Pas?ca and P. Dienes0400008000012000010  20  30  40  50  60  70  80  90  100CountPercentage of input dataParaphrase pairs (Ngram-Entity)Paraphrase pairs (Ngram-Relative)Fig.
3.
Variation of the number of acquired paraphrase pairs with the input data sizeTable 2.
Top ranked multi-word paraphrase pairs in decreasing order of frequency ofco-occurrence# Ngram-Entity Ngram-Relative1 DVD Movie, VHS Movie became effective, took effect2 betting is excited, wagering is excited came into force, took effect3 betting is, wagering is became effective, went into effect4 betting is excited, gambling is excited became effective, came into force5 Annual Meeting of, meeting of became effective, came into effect6 center of, centre of entered into force, took effect7 betting is, gambling is one hour, two hourscase variation.
Top multi-word phrases extracted by Ngram-Relative tend to beself-contained syntactic units.
For instance, entered into force is a verb phrasein Table 2.
In contrast, many of the top paraphrases with Ngram-Entity end ina linking word, such as the pair (center of, centre of).
Note that every time thispair is extracted, the smaller single-word paraphrase pair that folds the commonlinking word into the anchor, e.g., (center, centre), is also extracted.4.2 Quality of ParaphrasesTable 2 shows that the extracted paraphrases are not equally useful.
The pair(became effective, took effect) is arguably more useful than (one hour, two hours).Table 3 is a side-by-side comparison of the accuracy of the paraphrases withNgram-Only, Ngram-Entity and Ngram-Relative respectively.
The values arethe result of manual classification of the top, middle and bottom 100 paraphrasepairs from each run into 11 categories.
The first six categories correspond topairs classified as correct.
For instance (Univeristy, University) is classified inclass (1); (Treasury, treasury) in (2); (is, are) in (3); (e-mail, email) in (4);and (can, could) in (5).
The pairs in class (6) are considered to be the mostuseful; they include (trip, visit), (condition, status), etc.
The next three classesdo not contain synonyms but are still useful.
The pairs in (7) are siblings ratherthan direct synonyms; examples are (twice a year, weekly) and (French, welsh).Furthermore, modal verbs such as (may, should), numbers, and prepositions like(up, back) also fall under class (7).
Many of the 63 pairs classified as siblingsAligning Needles in a Haystack 127Table 3.
Quality of the acquired paraphrasesNgram-Only Ngram-Entity Ngram-RelativeClassification of Pairs Top Mid Low Top Mid Low Top Mid Low100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100(1) Correct; punct., symbols, spelling 1 5 11 12 6 20 18 11 15(2) Correct; equal if case-insensitive 0 5 0 27 2 11 9 2 14(3) Correct; both are stop words 4 0 0 3 0 1 1 0 0(4) Correct; hyphenation 0 1 4 10 35 8 2 19 43(5) Correct; morphological variation 8 1 10 9 10 20 20 15 6(6) Correct; synonyms 16 8 21 5 32 14 33 23 6Total correct 29 20 46 66 85 74 83 70 84(7) Siblings rather than synonyms 63 29 19 32 8 15 5 7 7(8) One side adds an elaboration 0 0 3 0 0 0 1 2 1(9) Entailment 0 3 2 0 0 1 3 1 0Total siblings 63 32 24 32 8 16 9 10 8(10) Incorrect; antonyms 6 0 2 0 1 4 4 3 4(11) Incorrect; other 2 48 28 2 6 6 4 17 4Total incorrect 8 48 30 2 7 10 8 20 8with Ngram-Only in Table 3 are precisely such words.
Class (8) contains pairsin which a portion of one of the elements is a synonym or phrasal equivalentof the other element, such as (poliomyelitis globally, polio) and (UNC, UNC-CH), whereas (9) captures what can be thought of as entailment, e.g., (governs,owns) and (holds, won).
Finally, the last two classes from Table 3 correspond toincorrect extractions, due to either antonyms like (lost, won) and (your greateststrength, your greatest weakness) in class (10), or other factors in (11).The aggregated evaluation results, shown in bold in Table 3, suggest thatNgram-Only leads to paraphrases of lower quality than those extracted withNgram-Entity and Ngram-Relative.
In particular, the samples from the middleand bottom of the Ngram-Only paraphrases contain a much higher percentageof incorrect pairs.
The results also show that, for Ngram-Entity and Ngram-Relative, the quality of paraphrases is similar at different ranks in the paraphraselists sorted by the number of different ngrams they co-occur in.
For instance, thetotal number of correct pairs has comparable values for the top, middle and bot-tom pairs.
This confirms the usefulness of the heuristics introduced in Section 3.3to discard irrelevant sentences with Ngram-Entity and Ngram-Relative.4.3 Paraphrases in Natural-Language Web SearchThe usefulness of paraphrases in Web search is assessed via an existing experi-mental repository of more than 8 million factual nuggets associated with a date.Repositories of factual nuggets are built offline, by matching lightweight, open-domain lexico-semantic patterns on unstructured text.
In the repository used inthis paper, a factual nugget is a sentence fragment from a Web document, pairedwith a date extracted from the same document, when the event encoded in the128 M. Pas?ca and P. DienesTable 4.
Impact of expansion of the test queries (QH/QL=count of queries withhigher/lower scores than without expansion, NE=Ngram-Entity, NR=Ngram-Relative)Max.
nr.
disjunctions QH QL Scoreper expanded phrase NE NR NE NR NE NR1 (no paraphrases) 0 0 0 0 52.70 52.702 (1 paraphrase) 17 8 7 6 64.50 57.623 (2 paraphrases) 22 13 6 9 70.38 60.464 (3 paraphrases) 23 15 6 7 71.42 60.395 (4 paraphrases) 26 18 12 5 71.73 63.35sentence fragment occurred according to the text, e.g., ?1937, Golden Gate wasbuilt?, and ?1947, Bell Labs invented the transistor?.A test set of temporal queries is used to extract direct results (dates) fromthe repository of factual nuggets, by matching the queries against the sentencefragments, and retrieving the associated dates.
The test queries are all queriesthat start with either When or What year, namely 207 out of the total count of1893 main-task queries, from the Question Answering track [16] of past editions(1999 through 2002).
The metric for measuring the accuracy of the retrievedresults is the de-facto scoring metric for fact-seeking queries, that is, the recip-rocal rank of the first returned result that is correct (in the gold standard) [16].If there is no correct result among the top 10 returned, the query receives nocredit.
Individual scores are aggregated (i.e., summed) over the entire query set.In a series of parallel experiments, all phrases from the test queries areexpanded into Boolean disjunctions with their top-ranked paraphrases.
Querywords with no paraphrase are placed into the expanded queries in their origi-nal form.
The other query words are expanded only if they are single words, forsimplicity.
Examples of implicitly-Boolean queries expanded disjunctively, beforeremoval of stop words and wh-words, are:?
When did Amtrak (begin | start | began | continue | commence) (operations| operation | activities | Business | operational)??
When was the De Beers (company | Co. | firm | Corporation | group) (founded| established | started | created | co-founded)?Table 4 illustrates the impact of paraphrases on the accuracy of the datesretrieved from the repository of factual nuggets associated with dates.
Whencompared to non-expanded queries, paraphrases consistently improve the accu-racy of the returned dates.
Incremental addition of more paraphrases results inmore individual queries with a better score than for their non-expanded ver-sion, and higher overall scores for the returned dates.
The paraphrases extractedwith Ngram-Entity produce scores that are higher than those of Ngram-Relative,due mainly to higher coverage.
Since the temporal queries represent an exter-nal, objective test set, they provide additional evidence regarding the quality ofparaphrases in a practical application.Aligning Needles in a Haystack 1295 ConclusionThe Web has gradually grown into a noisy, unreliable, yet powerful resource ofhuman knowledge.
This knowledge ranges from basic word usage statistics to in-tricate facts, background knowledge and associated inferences made by humansreading Web documents.
This paper describes a method for unsupervised acqui-sition of lexical knowledge across the Web, by exploiting the numerous textualforms that people use to share similar ideas, or refer to common events.
Largesets of paraphrases are collected through pairwise alignment of ngrams occur-ring within the unstructured text of Web documents.
Several mechanisms areexplored to cope with the inherent lack of quality of Web content.
The quality ofthe extracted paraphrases improves significantly when the textual anchors usedfor aligning potential paraphrases attempt to approximate, even at a very coarselevel, the presence of additional information within the sentences.
In additionto the known role of the extracted paraphrases in natural-language intensiveapplications, the experiments in this paper illustrate their impact in returningdirect results to natural-language queries.The final output of the extraction algorithm lacks any distinction amongparaphrases that apply to only one of the several senses or part of speech tagsthat a word or phrase may have.
For instance, hearts, center and middle mixthe medical and positioning senses of the word heart.
Conversely, the extractedparaphrases may capture only one sense of the word, which may not matchthe sense of the same word in the queries.
As an example, in the expansion ofone of the test queries, ?Where is the massive North Korean (nuclear|atomic)(complex|real) (located|situated|found)?
?, a less-than-optimal paraphrase of com-plex not only provides a sibling rather than a near synonym, but may incorrectlyshift the focus of the search towards the mathematical sense of the word (com-plex versus real numbers).
Aggregated contextual information from the sourcengrams could provide a means for selecting only some of the paraphrases, basedon the query.
As another direction for future work, we plan to revise the needfor language-dependent resources (namely, the part of speech tagger) in the cur-rent approach, and explore possibilities of minimizing or removing their use forseamless transfer of the approach to other languages.References1.
Hirao, T., Fukusima, T., Okumura, M., Nobata, C., Nanba, H.: Corpus and eval-uation measures for multiple document summarization with multiple sources.
In:Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Computational Linguistics(COLING-04), Geneva, Switzerland (2004) 535?5412.
Shinyama, Y., Sekine, S.: Paraphrase acquisition for information extraction.
In:Proceedings of the 41st Annual Meeting of the Association of Computational Lin-guistics (ACL-03), 2nd Workshop on Paraphrasing: Paraphrase Acquisition andApplications, Sapporo, Japan (2003) 65?713.
Pas?ca, M.: Open-Domain Question Answering from Large Text Collections.
CSLIStudies in Computational Linguistics.
CSLI Publications, Distributed by the Uni-versity of Chicago Press, Stanford, California (2003)130 M. Pas?ca and P. Dienes4.
Mitra, M., Singhal, A., Buckley, C.: Improving automatic query expansion.
In:Proceedings of the 21st ACM Conference on Research and Development in Infor-mation Retrieval (SIGIR-98), Melbourne, Australia (1998) 206?2145.
Schutze, H., Pedersen, J.: Information retrieval based on word senses.
In: Pro-ceedings of the 4th Annual Symposium on Document Analysis and InformationRetrieval.
(1995) 161?1756.
Zukerman, I., Raskutti, B.: Lexical query paraphrasing for document retrieval.
In:Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Computational Linguistics(COLING-02), Taipei, Taiwan (2002) 1177?11837.
Barzilay, R., Lee, L.: Learning to paraphrase: An unsupervised approach usingmultiple-sequence alignment.
In: Proceedings of the 2003 Human Language Tech-nology Conference (HLT-NAACL-03), Edmonton, Canada (2003) 16?238.
Jacquemin, C., Klavans, J., Tzoukermann, E.: Expansion of multi-word termsfor indexing and retrieval using morphology and syntax.
In: Proceedings of the35th Annual Meeting of the Association of Computational Linguistics (ACL-97),Madrid, Spain (1997) 24?319.
Glickman, O., Dagan, I.: Acquiring Lexical Paraphrases from a Single Corpus.
In:Recent Advances in Natural Language Processing III.
John Benjamins Publishing,Amsterdam, Netherlands (2004) 81?9010.
Duclaye, F., Yvon, F., Collin, O.: Using the Web as a linguistic resource for learningreformulations automatically.
In: Proceedings of the 3rd Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC-02), Las Palmas, Spain (2002) 390?39611.
Shinyama, Y., Sekine, S., Sudo, K., Grishman, R.: Automatic paraphrase acqui-sition from news articles.
In: Proceedings of the Human Language TechnologyConference (HLT-02), San Diego, California (2002) 40?4612.
Dolan, W., Quirk, C., Brockett, C.: Unsupervised construction of large para-phrase corpora: Exploiting massively parallel news sources.
In: Proceedings ofthe 20th International Conference on Computational Linguistics (COLING-04),Geneva, Switzerland (2004) 350?35613.
Barzilay, R., McKeown, K.: Extracting paraphrases from a parallel corpus.
In:Proceedings of the 39th Annual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL-01), Toulouse, France (2001) 50?5714.
Brants, T.: TnT - a statistical part of speech tagger.
In: Proceedings of the 6thConference on Applied Natural Language Processing (ANLP-00), Seattle, Wash-ington (2000) 224?23115.
Dean, J., Ghemawat, S.: MapReduce: Simplified data processing on large clus-ters.
In: Proceedings of the 6th Symposium on Operating Systems Design andImplementation (OSID-04), San Francisco, California (2004) 137?15016.
Voorhees, E., Tice, D.: Building a question-answering test collection.
In: Pro-ceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Research and Development inInformation Retrieval (SIGIR-00), Athens, Greece (2000) 200?207
