Syntactic and Semantic Frames in PrepNetPatrick Saint-DizierIRIT-CNRS118, route de Narbonne31062 Toulouse cedex Francestdizier@irit.frAbstractIn this paper, we present an in depth revi-sion of the preliminary version of PrepNet,an lexical semantics database of prepositionbehaviors.
This revision includes a muchmore detailed structure for the language re-alization level.1 AimsDescribing the syntax and the semantics of prepo-sitions, in a way similar to verbs (e.g.
inFrameNet (www.icsi.berkeley.edu/ framenet/), orVerbNet (www.cis.upenn.edu/verbnet/)) or to nouns(as in WordNet and EuroWordNet) is obviouslya very challenging, but necessary task.
Preposi-tions turn out to be a very useful category in anumber of applications such as indexing, knowl-edge extraction, textual entailment and questionanswering since they convey basic meanings ofmuch interest like instruments, means, comparisons,amounts, approximations, localizations, etc.
Theymust necessarily be taken into account?and ren-dered accurately?for effective machine translationand lexical choice in language generation.
However,so far, prepositions have not been studied in NLPcircles as extensively as nouns and verbs.PrepNet (http://www.irit.fr/recherches/ILPL/Site-Equipe/ILPL.htm under revision) is a frameworkthat aims at constructing a repository of prepositionsyntactic and semantic behaviors.
PrepNet is struc-tured in two levels: the abstract notion level: global, language inde-pendent, characterization of preposition sensesin an abstract way, where frames representsome generic semantic aspects of these notions, the language realization levels that deal with re-alizations for various languages, using a varietyof marks (postpositions, affixes, compounds,etc.).
However, we will keep the term ?preposi-tion?
hereafter for all these marks.We present here a revised version of a preliminaryPrepNet.
Besides some simplifications of the struc-ture, innovations mainly concern the structures pro-vided at the language realization level, motivated bythe study of a few notions for a variety of languages.We provide the means to describe syntactic subcate-gorization forms, as well as semantic and pragmaticrestrictions on uses.
It seems that our view is nowusable in a number of languages, but some are stillresistant, like, e.g.
Malay.2 Related workThere is quite a lot of literature on prepositions inpsycholinguistics circles, and some in AI and incognitive sciences (Horno Cheliz, 82), (Cervioni,91), (Lindstomberg 97), (Mari, 00), (Pesetzky, 82),(Talmy 76, 85), but less in NLP (Saint-Dizier, 06).A quite old, but still of interest work (Spark-Joneset al 85) proposes, via cases or roles, a structure forprepositions, and their relations to verbs.The basis and the starting point of our researchwas developed about 10 years ago by Bonnie Dorr,it is accessible at:www.umiacs.umd.edu/?bonnie/AZ-preps-English.lcs.This is a very large database of preposition semantic763representations, characterized by their LCS repre-sentation and, sometimes, by a thematic grid.
Itwas concieved for machine translation tasks, whichexplains some of its features.
There are about 500entries (compared to our 165 abstract notions),for probably all English prepositions.
Finally, thePreposition Project offers a lexicographic view ofprepositions in English.3 Main features of PrepNetWithin the PrepNet framework, we have identifiedso far 195 preposition senses (which may have sub-senses in particular languages), which can be repre-sented in the Lexical Conceptual Structure frame-work on the basis of 65 primitives, based on En-glish preposition names (on, near, with, etc.).
Thesesenses reflect the variety of primitive notions con-veyed by prepositions.
Abstract notion representa-tions may be a composition of several primitives.Primitives are viewed here as linguistic macros,which can then be interpreted depending on the envi-ronment (e.g.
Euclidean geometry for spatial prepo-sitions, fuzzy logic axioms for the notion of approx-imation).To elaborate an adequate formalism for the syn-tactic and semantic aspects of prepositions we wantto encode in PrepNet, we have studied in depthpreposition realizations in language around the ab-stract notions of theme and approximation (French,Spanish, Catalan, English, Thai) and instruments(for German, Italian, Spanish, French, Arabic andBerber, Thai, Bahasa Malaysia, Hindi, Urdu, Kash-miri, Bengali, and Filipino).
This latter notion ismuch wider than the first two, and has a large varietyof realization parameters, which greatly contributedto this second version of PrepNet.
A multilingualanalysis needs to be somewhat transcategorial andboth syntactic and semantic.4 Preposition usage characterizationsusing Frames4.1 General overview of abstract notionsIn PrepNet, preposition senses are characterized bymeans of abstract notions which capture senses ina conceptual and language independent way.
Theseabstract notions have been defined from corpus anal-ysis and bilingual dictionaries (in particular theGerman-French Harrap?s, which has an excellentconceptual approach to translation).
From corpora,focussing on French, Spanish and English, we havestudied every preposition lexeme, its distributionsand constraints, and we have identified manuallythe different meanings they convey.
We have thenformed groups of senses out of which the abstractnotions emerged.
This took about 1.5 man/yearof work, preposition being not as numerous as e.g.verbs or adjectives (about 50 to 100).The first level, the abstract notions, is organizedas follows:- a first level characterizes a semantic family, of alevel roughly comparable to thematic roles: local-ization, manner, quantity, accompaniment, etc.,- a second level accounts for the different facets ofa semantic family, e.g.
source, destination, via, andfixed position for the localization family,- a third level characterizes, roughly speaking, themodalities of a facet when appropriate.
For exam-ple, the facet manner and attitudes is decomposedinto 3 modalities: basic manner, manner by com-parison and manner with a reference point.
Due tospace limitations, this latter level will not be muchdeveloped here.Abstract notions are the following (revised from(Saint-Dizier, 05)): Localization with facets:- source, - destination, - via/passage, - fixedposition.From an ontological point of view, all of thesesfacets can, a priori, apply to spatial, temporalor to more abstract arguments. Quantity with facets:- numerical or referential quantity, - fre-quency and iterativity, - proportion or ratio. Manner with facets:- manners and attitudes, - means (instru-ment or abstract), - imitation, agreement oranalogy.Imitation: he walks like a robot; agreement: hebehaves according to the law, Accompaniment with facets:- adjunction, - simultaneity of events (co-events), - inclusion, - exclusion.764Adjunction : flat with terrace / steak withFrench fries / tea with milk, Exclusion: they allcame except Paul. Choice and exchange with facets:- exchange, - choice or alternative, - substi-tution.Substitution : sign for your child, Choice:among all my friends, he is the funniest one. Causality with facets :- cause, - goal or consequence, - intention -purpose.Cause: the rock fell under the action of frost. Opposition with two ontological distinctions:physical opposition and psychological or epis-temic opposition, e.g.
: to act contrary to one?sinterests. Ordering with facets:- priority, - subordination, - hierarchy, -ranking, - degree of importance.Ranking : at school, she is ahead of me. Instrument (see below), Other groups: - Theme, - in spite of, - com-parison.Theme: a book concerning dinosaurs.4.2 Representation of abstract notionsAn abstract notion is characterized by:1. a name and a gloss, that informally describethe abstract notion at stake,2.
a conceptual representation, in simplifiedLCS form,3.
inferential patterns and presuppositions,which will not be developed here.4.3 Representation of the language levelWhile we have a unique, language independent,structure for abstract notions, we have a set of de-scriptions for each language.
At this level, we mayalso have semantic subdivisions whenever relevant,called strata.
Let us study here the direct usages,i.e.
those which are not a priori metaphorical orin any other form of meaning shift.
Our approach,however, integrates the possibility to describe theseshifts either directly or via rules.The language level descriptions include at the mo-ment the following features: syntactic frames: the syntactic subcategoriza-tion frames the preposition heads (possiblyin conjunction with other predicates like averb), with some statistics on usage frequency.Frames are a little bit complex since they needto take into account (1) elements not com-pletely headed by the preposition but whichnevertheless play a major role (the verb and the?external argument?
of the preposition) and (2)the structure the preposition heads (in generalan NP, possibly an S).
This is realized by cor-pus inspection.
In addition, alternations prepo-sitions may undergo are given and some gram-matical movements (such as fronting). semantic and domain restrictions: each argu-ment in the frame may have selectional restric-tions.
These allow us to identify different lan-guage realizations.
Restrictions may also be re-lated to domains and not to arguments. pragmatic aspects: prepositions convey a num-ber of pragmatic factors such as: stress (iden-tifying a new focus), polarity, illocutionaryforce, formal character, etc.
These are mainlygiven to restrict usages.4.4 Basic case: the VIA notionThe facet VIA of the ?localisation?
family describesa movement via a passage.
The abstract notionframe is defined as follows:VIA?An entity X moving via a location Y?representation: X : via(loc, Y)This frame reads as follows: after the name andthe gloss of the notion, we find a simple, LCS-based,semantic representation where X is the external ar-gument, and loc specifies the domain: localization(other cases are assumed to be derived by metaphor).Let us now consider the language level.
InFrench, the by-default associated synset is {par,via} .
X and Y are restricted respectively to concreteentities and location, the verb is restricted to inher-ently directed motion (in B. Levin?s terminology),as in:765passer par la porte, transiter par la Belgique,Paris-Strasbourg via Nancy.Syntactic frames examples are (given informally, inreadable format):[X(np,subj), Verb, Y(np,obj,optional),preposition, Z(np,obj2)],[Y(compound NP, +loc), preposition, Z(np, +loc)], etc.Next, we also have a specific case (a strata) wherethe passage is narrow.
In that case, the synset is{a` travers, au travers de, dans}, and Verbs are ei-ther inherently directed motion or perception verbs(regarder dans le te?le?scope, regarder a` travers lagrille).4.5 Compound forms: via underThe abstract notion VIA has a few strata thatcorrespond to compound notions that express amore precise trajectory like via under, via above.For example, in French, to express this notion, thepreposition par is combined with a fixed locationpreposition such as dessous, dessus etc.
to formcompounds such as: par dessus, par dessous (viaunder, via above).
The frame structure remains thesame, except that the semantic representation hasthen an embedded functional structure:VIA UNDER?An entity moving via under a location?representation: X : via(loc, under(loc,Y))At the language realization level, the Frenchsynset is: {par dessous }.5 A more complex case: dealing withinstrumentsThe study of the abstract notion of instrumentality,as reported in (Kawtrakul et ali, 06), has led us torevise and largely improve the language level for-malism.
Let us report here some of its main facets.In this work, 12 languages from 5 linguistic familiesare studied: Thai, Malay, Hindi, Urdu, Kashmiri,Bengali, German, Spanish, French, Italian, Arabicand Berber.
Filipino has been recently considered.Besides basic syntactic frames, of much interestis that most of these languages use other forms than?prepositions?
to realize these abstract notions: post-positions, various kinds of affixes, verb compounds,etc.
A number of the languages studied have an in-strumental case.Our investigations tend to show that we can haveon the one hand a stable abstract frame that repre-sents the semantic and some pragmatic aspects ofthe abstract notion and, on the other hand, at thelanguage realization level, a description of the be-haviors of ?prepositions?
in the various languages.We do not establish any direct connection betweentwo preposition realizations in two languages.
Therelation, in terms of translation, is established viathe set of restrictions imposed on each lexicalizationthat corresponds the best to the restrictions imposedon the argument Y.
The impact of the other elements(arguments and verb) remains to be explored.
Eachlanguage has an independent description.5.1 Representing the abstract notionThe generic frame for instruments is as follows:INSTRUMENT?An actor X uses an object Z (the instrument)to reach a goal E?X, Y : by_means_of(E, Z)In this frame, an event E is introduced to refer tothe goal, e. g. ?cut bread?
as in John cuts breadwith a knife.
Note also that in the semantic represen-tation, the instrumental expression has wider scopeover the event: this reflects the fact that most ad-juncts have scope over propositions (predicate andits arguments).In terms of restrictions, a major difficulty is theprototypicality of instruments.
At a conceptuallevel, it is quite difficult to characterize what is a pro-totypical instrument for a given action.
Each eventhas its own prototypical instrument, making corpusstudies extremely large, probably unfeasable.
Forthe time being, we leave the type of the instrumentlargely open.
However, at the language realizationlevel, we may have some useful restrictions, as willbe seen below.5.2 Dealing with language realizationsLet us now present a variety of language realizationsthat motivated the different facets of the formalismwe have developed.
In each case, we have a by-default synset of marks, and more restricted sets ofmarks for specific cases, related in particular to thesemantic type of the instrument, but also to prag-matic effects or domains of discourse.The different language variations presented be-low have been elaborated in several steps via cor-766pus and dictionaries.
A first set of utterances wascollected by using the various prepositions in eachlanguage and by analyzing the usage restrictions ob-served.
Then we constructed a second set of utter-ances to confirm the analysis, by attempting to findcounter examples.
Counter examples always exist,but they must remain marginal for the analysis tobe confirmed.
Analysis was done independently foreach language in order to avoid any influence.
Muchmore data can be found in (Kawtrakul et ali, 06).Let us now present language realization levels fora few quite diverse languages.French by-default synset: [avec, par, aumoyen de, gra?ce a`, a` l?aide de, a`travers].some syntactic structures:[X(subj) Verb(action) Y(obj) prepositionZ(np or S)], [?utiliser?
Z ?pour?Verb(action, infinitive) Y], etc.
.More informally, other syntactic properties are:the instrument is in general an adjunct to the VP,it therefore has the properties of such types of ad-juncts.
It undergoes the alternation: ?Characteristicproperty of instrument?
(Levin 86) and a few othermovements, e.g.
: fronting.
Finally, it cannot beinserted between the verb and the object.Usage restrictions: introduces a focus on the in-strument (in particular to focus on non prototypicalinstruments): au moyen de.polarity: positive: gra?ce a`German by-default synset: [mit, mitHilfe von, mittels, durch, anhand,kraft, dank, per.
]Of interest here are the domain and pragmaticrestrictions on preposition usages, e.g.
:domain: juridical, psychological: kraft,anhandformal usage: mittelsfocus: mittels, mit Hilfe voninstrumental manner: durch.Hindi by-default synset: [se, me, kekaraan, ke dwaraa, kar, karaan,dwara]the syntactic frame encodes here postpositions,case marks and the SOV form: [X(subject,ergative), Y(object, accusative),Z(adjunct), postposition, Verb(action)].This form is a priori very regular, Z is an NP or anS.
Y and Z can occasionally be permuted.
Let usnote some interesting usage restrictions:instrument type: concrete: seinstrument type: abstract: dwArainstrument type: means of transportation: meinvolvement of instrument: agentive: ke dwara,causal ke karaaninstrumental path: me, se.Concerning other Northern India languages, Urduhas about the same distribution and distinctions,while Kashmiri and most notably Bengali have somemore distinctions, with the use of a large numberof prefixes and suffixes, which are expressed in thesubcat frame by means of features.
Thai is relativelystraightforward, prepositions may be even omitted.Filipino is close to Malay and Indonesian in termsof structure, except that it is basically a VSO lan-guage.
It has also a large number of marks to capturethe notion of preposition: [ng, kay, kina,sa], as in:Pinalo niya ang aso ng patpat (litt.
hits he the dogwith a stick).The syntaxtic structure is therefore: [Verb,X(subj), Y(obj), preposition, Z].So far, the formalism we have elaborated allowsus to encode syntactic frames, restrictions, casemarks, prefixes and suffixes as well as postpositions.However, languages of the malayo-polynesian fam-ily raise additional problems which are not so easyto capture.
Let us just, for the sake of illustration,survey a few aspects here for Malay and Filipino.Malay has three ways to introduce instruments:preposition + NP, affixes and compounding.
Affixedwords are built from stems which are instrumentalnouns, this allows for the construction of the equiv-alent of PPs, based on the prototypical use of theinstrumental noun.
The most common being: pre-fixes: beR- (e.g.
from kuda, horse, berkuda, onhorseback), meN- (e.g.
from kunci, key, mengunci,lock with key), prefix + suffix: meN- + -kan (e.g.from paku, nail, memakukan, to fasten with nails),and with suffix -i (e.g.
from ubat, medicine, mengu-bati, by means of medicine).
At the moment, we feelit may be confusing to add derivational morphologyconsiderations (with many restrictions) into syntac-tic frames, probably an additional means would benecessary.767Similarly, Filipino has also a large number ofmarks that play the role of prepositions, one ofwhich is viewed as an anteposed particle, workingas a determiner.6 PerspectivesAlthough we have stabilized semantic notions andsome formalisms for the representation of preposi-tion behaviors over a number of languages, PrepNetis still in a development stage.
The descriptions overvarious languages are huge tasks.
Our method forthe future will be to proceed by notion and studya variety of languages to have a better grasp at thesemantic distinctions and language realizations, aswe did for instruments.
For each case, a dedicatedmethod is often required.
Descriptions are encodedin XML, so that data can be easily shared.Although the study of prepositions is an interest-ing topic in itself, it is of much interest to investigatehow this work can be integrated into larger frame-works such as FrameNet or VerbNet, and this is oneof our major prospective.FrameNet says little about prepositions, but it hasa few frames such as Accompaniment which are ofinterest.
The roles defined in FrameNet are more ac-curate than the abstract notions of PrepNet, whichaims at a relatively generic description.
Those rolesare related to a variety of situations which are notnecessarily introduced by prepositions.
However, apreliminary, exploratory, task could be to attempt toclassify FrameNet roles under the main abstract no-tions of PrepNet.VerbNet uses a quite detailed list of thematic roleswhich have some similarities with the top nodes ofPrepNet abstract notions hiererachy.
In a VerbNetframe, the syntax slot could be enriched by prepo-sition type (abstract notions) restrictions.
Similarly,predefined primitives such as location or directionare really close to our semantic representations inLCS, but they are used in a different manner.
Prep-Net has additional primitives to handle argument andnon argument structures (e.g.
approximation).ReferencesCannesson, E., Saint-Dizier, P. (2001), A general frame-work for the representation of prepositions in French,ACL01 WSD workshop, Philadelphia.Carmen Horno Che?liz, M. del, (2002), Lo que lapreposicio?n esconde, University of Zaragoza press.Cervioni, J., (1991), La pre?position: Etude se?mantique etpragmatique, Duculot, Paris.Dorr, B., Olsen, M.B., (1997), Deriving Verbal and Com-positional Verbal Aspect for NLP Applications, proc.ACL?97, Madrid.Dorr, B. J., Garman, J., and Weinberg, A., (1995), FromSyntactic Encodings to Thematic Roles: Building Lex-ical Entries for Interlingual MT, Machine Translation,9:3-4, pp.71-100.Fellbaum, C., (1993), English Verbs as Semantic Net,Journal of Lexicography, vol.
6, Oxford UniversityPress.Jackendoff, R., (1990), Semantic Structures, MIT Press.Kawtrakul, A. et ali (2006), A Multilingual Analysis ofthe Notion of Instrumentality, proc.
EACL workshopon prepositions, Trento.Levin, B., (1993), Verb Semantic Classes: a PreliminaryInvestigation, Chicago University Press.Lindstromberg, S. (1997), English Prepositions Ex-plained, John Benjamins.Saint-Dizier, P., (2005), PrepNet: a Framework for De-scribing Prepositions: Preliminary Investigation Re-sults, IWCS05, Tilburg.Spark-Jones, K., Boguraev, B., A note on a study ofcases, research note, dec. 85.Talmy, L. (1976), Semantic Causative Types, In M. Shi-batani (ed.
), Syntax and Semantics 6: The Grammar ofCausative Constructions.
New York: Academic Press,pp.
43-116.Talmy, L., (1985), Lexicalization Patterns: SemanticStructure in Lexical Forms, in Language Typology andSyntactic Description 3: Grammatical Categories andthe Lexicon, T. Shopen (ed.
), 57-149, Cambridge Uni-versity Press.Villavicencio, A., (2006) Verb-particle Constructions inthe WWW, in P. Saint-Dizier (ed), Syntax and Seman-tics of Prepositions, Kluwer Academic.Wierzbicka, A.
(1992), Semantic Primitives and Seman-tic Fields, in A. Lehrer and E.F. Kittay (eds.
), Frames,Fields and Contrasts.
Hillsdale: Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates, pp.
208-227.768
