A Basic framework to Build a Test Collection for the Vietnamese TextCatergorizationViet Hoang-Anh, Thu Dinh-Thi-Phuong, Thang Huynh-QuyetHanoi University of Technology, Vietnamvietha-fit@mail.hut.edu.vn, thanghq-fit@mail.hut.edu.vnAbstractThe aim of this paper is to present a basicframework to build a test collection for aVietnamese text categorization.
The pre-sented content includes our evaluations ofsome popular text categorization test col-lections, our researches on the require-ments, the proposed model and the tech-niques to build the BKTexts - test collec-tion for a Vietnamese text categorization.The XML specification of both text andmetadata of Vietnamese documents in theBKTexts also is presented.
Our BKTextstest collection is built with the XML speci-fication and currently has more than 17100Vietnamese text documents collected frome-newspapers.1 IntroductionNatural Language Processing (NLP) for suchpopular languages as English, French, etc.
has beenwell studied with many achievements.
In contrast,NLP for unpopular languages, such as Vietnamese,has only been researched recently.
It means thatexpecting international scientists to care about ourproblems is not feasible in the near future.
In thispaper, we present our research results on that field,especially on Vietnamese test collections forVietnamese text categorization.
This paper will beorganized as follows.
Section 2 proposes ourresearch on the requirements, models andtechniques to build a Vietnamese test collection forresearches and experiments on Vietnamese textcategorization.
Section 3 presents our results withBKTexts test collection.
Lastly, the focus of ourongoing research will be presented in section.2 Model of building a test collection forthe Vietnamese text categorizationUntil now, there has not been a Vietnamese stan-dard test collection for Vietnamese text categoriza-tion.
Vietnamese documents used in previous stud-ies of Vietnamese researchers are gathered bythemselves and were not thoroughly checked.Moreover,  all over the world, there have been a lotof test collections in many different languages, es-pecially in English such as the Reuters-21578, theRCV1 and the 20NewsGroup1.
Therefore, we in-tend to build a Vietnamese standard test collectionfor the Vietnamese text categorization.
We defineda framework for building Vietnamese test collec-tions as follows.
Basic requirements for a Viet-namese test collection text categorizationFigure1.
The system architecture to build a Vietnamese test collection for text categorizationOur model to build a Vietnamese test collectionfor text categorization is accomplished in fourstages: collecting, auto coding, manual editing, andtesting (Figure 1).1 Available from http://kdd.ics.uci.edu/The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 2008103From available resources, we gather Vietnam-ese documents for the test collection in accordancewith the scope and the structure of categories.
Re-searchers usually use documents collected from e-newspapers because these documents are pre-processed and less ambiguous.
Then an auto sys-tem tags documents in the XML (or SGML) for-matting specification.After being coded, documents are manual editedby editors.
The editors would assign the categoriesthey felt applicable.
They also edit specificationtags of formatted documents in order to completelyand more precisely describe attributes of docu-ments.
Lastly, to assess the accuracy of the testcollection, we use some famous categorization al-gorithms such as SVM, k-NN, etc.
Performing thetest and correction several times, we will graduallyobtain a finer and more precise test collection.
Theprocess ends when errors are below a permittedthreshold.3 The BKTexts test collection for Viet-namese text categorizationWith the model mentioned above, we are con-structing the BKTexts test collection for the firstversion.
We collected about 17100 documents forthe BKTexts from two e-newspapershttp://www.vnexpress.net and http://www.vnn.vn.Categories are organized in a hierarchical structureof 10 main classifications and 37 sub-classes.Documents are marked up with XML tags andgiven unique ID numbers.
The XML specificationof a document in the BKTexts test collection isdescribed in Figure 2.
Building a successful Viet-namese test collection for text categorization has asignificant meaning.
It will be a useful material forany study on text categorization and Vietnameseprocessing in the future because it reduces a lot ofmanual work and time, as well as increases the ac-curacy of experimental results.4 Conclusion and future workWe have presented our research results on definingrequirements, the model and techniques to build aVietnamese test collection for researches and ex-periments on Vietnamese text categorization.
Cur-rently, we continue building the BKTexts on a lar-ger scale for publishing widely in the near future.This test collection enables researchers to test ideasand to objectively compare results with publishedstudies.Fig.2.
The XML specification of the BKTextsReferencesDavid D. Lewis, Reuters-21578 Text CategorizationTest Collection, www.daviddlewis.com, 1997.David D. Lewis, Yiming Yang, Tony G.Rose, Fan Li,?RCV1: A new Benchmark Collection for Text Cate-gorization Research?, in: Journal of Machine Learn-ing Research 5, pp.361-397, 2004.Huynh Quyet Thang, Dinh Thi Phuong Thu.
Vietnam-ese text categorization based on unsupervised learn-ing method and applying extended evaluating formu-las for calculating the document similarity.
Proceed-ings of The Second Vietnam National Symposium onICT.RDA, Hanoi 24-25/9/2004, pp.
251-261 (in Viet-namese)Dinh Thi Ph?ong Thu, Hoang Vinh Son, Huynh QuyetThang.
Proposed modifications of the CYK algo-rithm for the Vietnamese parsing.
Journal of Com-puter Science and Cybernetics, Volume 21, No.
4,2005, pp.
323-336 (in Vietnamese)The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 2008104
