A Punjabi Grammar CheckerAbstractThis article provides description about thegrammar checking software developed fordetecting the grammatical errors in Punjabitexts and providing suggestions whereverappropriate to rectify those errors.
Thissystem utilizes a full-form lexicon formorphology analysis and rule-basedsystems for part of speech tagging andphrase chunking.
The system supported bya set of carefully devised error detectionrules can detect and suggest rectificationsfor a number of grammatical errors,resulting from lack of agreement, order ofwords in various phrases etc., in literarystyle Punjabi texts.1 IntroductionGrammar checking is one of the most widely usedtools within natural language engineeringapplications.
Most of the word processing systemsavailable in the market incorporate spelling,grammar, and style-checking systems for Englishand other foreign languages, one such rule-basedgrammar checking system for English is discussedin (Naber, 2003).
However, when it comes to thesmaller languages, specifically the Indianlanguages, most of such advanced tools have beenlacking.
Spell checking has been addressed formost of the Indian languages but still grammar andstyle checking systems are lacking.
In this article agrammar checking system for Punjabi, a memberof the Modern Indo-Aryan family of languages, isprovided.
The grammar checker uses a rule-basedsystem to detect grammatical errors in the text andif possible generates suggestions to correct thoseerrors.To the best of our knowledge the grammarchecking provided here will be the first suchsystem for Indian languages.
There is n-grambased grammar checking system for Bangla (Alamet al 2006).
The authors admit its accuracy is verylow and there is no description about whether thesystem provides any suggestions to correct errorsor not.
It is mentioned that it was tested to identifycorrect sentences from the set of sentencesprovided as input but nothing is mentioned as faras correcting those errors is concerned.
However,the system that we discuss here for Punjabi detectserrors and suggests corrections as well.
In doingso, provides enough information for the user tounderstand the error reason and supports thesuggestions provided, if any.2 System OverviewThe input Punjabi text is given to the preprocessingsystem that performs tokenization and detects anyphrases etc.
After that morphological analysis isperformed, this returns possible tags for all thewords in the given text, based on the full-formlexicon that it is using.
Then a rule-based part ofspeech tagger is engaged to disambiguate the tagsbased on the context information.
After that, thetext is grouped into various phrases accordingly tothe pre-defined phrase chunking rules.
In the finalphase, rules to check for various grammaticalerrors internal to phrases and agreement on thesentence level, are applied.
If any error is found ina sentence then based on the context informationcorrections are suggested (generated) for that.Mandeep Singh GillDepartment of ComputerSciencePunjabi UniversityPatiala -147002, Indiamsgill_in@yahoo.comTel.
: +91-9888165971Gurpreet Singh LehalDepartment of ComputerSciencePunjabi UniversityPatiala -147002, Indiagslehal@yahoo.comTel.
: +91-175-3046171Shiv Sharma JoshiDepartment ofAnthropological Linguistics& Punjabi LexicographyPunjabi UniversityPatiala -147002, IndiaTel.
: +91-175-3046292940For the purpose of morphological analysis wehave divided the Punjabi words into 22 wordclasses like noun, adjective (inflected anduninflected), pronoun (personal, demonstrative,reflexive, interrogative, relative, and indefinite),verb (main verb, operator verb, and auxiliary verb),cardinals, ordinals, adverb, postposition,conjunction, interjection etc., depending on thegrammatical information required for the words ofthese word classes.
The information that is in thedatabase depends upon the word class, like fornoun and inflected adjective, it is gender, number,and case.
For personal pronouns, person is alsorequired.
For main verbs gender, number, person,tense, phase, transitivity etc.
is required.
Asmentioned earlier the lexicon of this morphologicalanalyzer is full form based i.e.
all the word formsof all the commonly used Punjabi words are keptin the lexicon along with their root and othergrammatical information.For part of speech tagging, we have devised atag set keeping into mind all the grammaticalcategories that can be helpful for agreementchecking.
At present, there are more than 600 tagsin the tag set.
In addition to this, some word-specific tags are also there.
The tag set is very userfriendly and while choosing tag names existing tagsets for English and other such languages weretaken into consideration, like NNMSD ?masculine, singular, and direct case noun,PNPMPOF ?
masculine, plural, oblique case, andfirst person personal pronoun.
The approachfollowed for part of speech tagging is rule-based,as there is no tagged corpus for Punjabi availableat present.
As the text we are processing may havegrammatical agreement errors, so the part ofspeech tagging rules are devised considering this.The rules are applied in sequential order with eachrule having an attached priority to control its orderin this sequence.For phrase chunking, again a rule-basedapproach was selected mainly due to the similarreasons as for part of speech tagging.
The tag setthat is being used for phrase chunking includestags like NPD ?
noun phrase in direct case, NPNE?
noun phrase followed by ?
ne etc.
The rules forphrase chunking also take into account thepotential errors in the text, like lack of agreementin words of a potential phrase.
However, as wouldbe expected there is no way to take the misplacedwords of a phrase into account, like if words of aphrase are separated (having some other phrase inbetween) then that cannot be taken as a singlephrase, even though this may be a potential error.In the last phase i.e.
grammar checking, thereare again manually designed error detection rulesto detect potential errors in the text and providecorrections to resolve those errors.
For example,rule to check modifier and noun agreement, will gothrough all the noun phrases in a sentence to checkif the modifiers of those sentences agree with theirrespective head words (noun/pronoun) in terms ofgender, number, and case or not.
For this matching,the grammatical information from the tags of thosewords is used.
In simple terms, it will compare thegrammatical information (gender, number, andcase) of modifier with the headword(noun/pronoun) and displays an error message ifsome grammatical information fails to match.
Toresolve this error, the grammar checking modulewill use morphological generator, to generate thecorrect form (based on headword?s gender,number, and case) for that modifier from its rootword.For example, consider the grammaticallyincorrect sentence   sohne larkajanda hai ?handsome boy goes?.
In this sentence inthe noun phrase, sohne larka ?handsomeboy?, the modifier  sohne ?handsome?
(rootword ?
 sohna ?handsome?
), with masculinegender, plural number, and direct case, is not inaccordance with the gender, number, case of itshead word.
It should be in singular number insteadof plural.
The grammar checking module willdetect this as an error as ?number?
for modifier andheadword is not same, then it will usemorphological generator to generate the ?singularnumber form?
from its root word, which is same asroot form i.e.
 sohna ?handsome?
(masculinegender, singular number, and direct case).
So, theinput sentence will be corrected as  sohna larka janda hai ?handsome boy goes?.The error detection rules in grammar checkingmodule are again applied in sequential order withpriority field to control the sequence.
This is doneto resolve phrase level errors before going on tothe clause level errors, and then to sentence levelagreement errors.9413 Grammar ErrorsAt present, this grammar checking system forPunjabi detects and provides corrections forfollowing grammatical errors, based on the studyof Punjabi grammar related texts (Chander, 1964;Gill and Gleason, 1986; Puar, 1990):Modifier and noun agreementThe modifier of a noun must agree with the nounin terms of gender, number, and case.
Modifiers ofa noun include adjectives, pronouns, cardinals,ordinals, some forms of verbs etc.Subject and verb agreementIn Punjabi text, the verb must agree with thesubject of the sentence in terms of gender, number,and person.
There are some special forms of verbslike transitive past tense verbs, which need somespecific postpositions with their subject, like theuse of ?
ne with transitive verbs in perfect formetc.Noun and adjective (in attributive form)agreementThis is different from ?modifier and nounagreement?
as described above in the sense thatadjective is not preceding noun but can be virtuallyanywhere in the sentence, usually preceding verbphrase acting as a complement for it.
It must stillagree with the noun for which it is used in thatsentence.Order of the modifiers of a noun in noun phraseIf a noun has more than one modifier, then thosemodifiers should be in a certain order such thatphrase modifiers precede single word modifiers butpronouns and numerals precede all other.Order of the words in a verb phraseThere are certain future tense forms of Punjabiverbs that should occur towards the end of verbphrase without any auxiliary.
In addition, ifnegative and emphatic particles are used in a verbphrase then the latter must precede the former. da postposition and following noun phraseagreementAll the forms of  da postposition must agree interms of gender, number, and case with thefollowing noun phrase that it is connecting with thepreceding noun phrase.Some other options covered include noun phrasemust be in oblique form before a postposition, allthe noun phrases joined by connectives must havesame case, main verb should be in root form ifpreceding  ke etc.4 Sample Input and OutputThis section provides some sample Punjabisentences that were given as input to the Punjabigrammar checking system along with the outputgenerated by this system.Sentence 1Shows the grammatical errors related to ?Modifierand noun agreement?
and ?Order of the modifiersof a noun in noun phrase?.
In this sentence noun islarka ?boy?
and its modifiers are   sohni ek bhajji janda ?handsome onerunning?.Input:   Input1: sohni ek bhajji janda larka aaeyaInput2: Handsome one running boy cameOutput:   Output1: ek bhajjia janda sohna larka aaeyaOutput2: One running handsome boy cameSentence 2Covers the grammatical error related to ?Subjectand verb agreement?.
Subject is  barish ?rain?and verb phrase is    ho riha han ?israining?.Input:     Input1: bahr barish ho riha hanInput2: It is raining outsideOutput:     Output1: bahr barish ho rahi haiOutput2: It is raining outsideSentence 3For grammatical errors related to ? dapostposition and following noun phrase agreement?and ?Noun phrase in oblique form before a postposition?.
Noun phrase preceding  dee942(possessive marker) is   chota baccha?small boy?
and following one is  naam ?name?.Input:      Input1: chota baccha dee naam raam haiInput2: Small boy?s name is RamOutput:      Ouput1: chote bacche da naam raam haiOuput2: Small boy?s name is RamSentence 4Highlights the grammatical errors related to?Subject and verb agreement?
and ?Order of thewords in a verb phrase?.
Subject in this sentence is larki ?girl?
and verb phrase is   nahi ja hee riha see ?was not going?.Input: 	   Input1: larkee school nahi ja hee riha seeInput2: The girl was not going to schoolOutput:    Ouput1: larkee school ja he nahi rahi seeOutput2: The girl was not going to schoolSentence 5For grammatical error related to ?Subject and verbagreement?.
Subject here is  raam ?Ram?
andverb phrase is  !
khadha ?ate?, which is transitiveand in perfect phase.Input:  "	  !Input1: raam phal khadhaInput2: Ram ate fruitOutput:  ? "
!Output1: raam ne phal khadhaOutput2: Ram ate fruitLegend:?
Input and Output specifies the inputPunjabi sentence in Gurmukhi script andthe output produced by this grammarchecking system in Gurmukhi script,respectively.?
Input1/Output1 specifies the Romanizedversion of the input/output.?
Input2/Output2 specifies the Englishgloss for the input/output.5 System FeaturesThe system is designed in Microsoft Visual C#2005 using Microsoft .NET Framework 2.0.
Theentire database of this tool is in XML files with thePunjabi text in Unicode format.
Some of thesignificant features of this grammar checkingsystem are:Rules can be turned on and off individuallyBeing a rule-based system all the rules provided insection 3 can be turned on and off individuallywithout requiring any changes in the system.
Therules are kept in a separate XML file, not hardcoded into the system.
To turn on/off a rule,changes can be made to that XML file directly or itcan be done through the options provided withinthe system.Error and Suggestions informationThe system is able to provide enough reasons insupport of every error that it detects.
With ameaningful description of the rule, it provides thegrammatical categories that failed to match if thereis an error and provides the desired correct valuefor those grammatical categories, with suggestions.However, the information about grammaticalcategories may not be much meaningful to anordinary user but if someone is learning Punjabi asa foreign/second language then information aboutcorrect grammatical categories according to thecontext can be helpful.
Wherever possible systemalso specifies both the words, for which matchingwas performed, making it more clear that what iswrong and with respect to what, as shown inFigure 1, it shows that which was the head wordand which word failed to match with it.The suggestions produced by the PunjabiGrammar Checker for the following grammaticallyincorrect sentence to correct the first incorrectword # rahian ?-ing plural?
are  riha ?-ingsingular?
and  rahi ?-ing singular?
:$  % # main khed rahian han  ?I are playing?943Figure 1.
Punjabi Grammar Checker ?
Error ReasonFigure 1 shows the grammatical categories thatfailed to match for the subject $ main ?I?
and partof the verb phrase # rahian ?-ing plural?.
Itprovides the values for the grammatical categoriesthat failed to match for the incorrect word alongwith the desired values for correction.6 System ScopeThe system is designed to work on the literarystyle Punjabi text with SOV (Subject Object Verb)sentence structure.
At present, it works properly onsimple or kernel sentences.
It can detect anyagreement errors in compound or complexsentences also.
However, there may be some falsealarms in such sentences.
The sentences in whichword order is shuffled for emphasis has not beenconsidered, along with the sentences in whichintonation alone is used for emphasis.
Due toemphatic intonation, the meaning or word class ofa word may be changed in a sentence e.g., & te?and?
is usually a connective but if emphasized itcan be used as an emphatic particle.
However, thisis hard to detect from the written form of the textand thus has not been considered.
However, ifsome emphatic particles like  he ' ee ( ve etc.,are used directly in a sentence to show emphasisthen that is given due consideration.7 Hardware and Software RequirementsThe system needs hardware and software as wouldbe expected from a typical word processingapplication.
A Unicode compatible Windows XPbased PC with 512 MB of RAM, 1 GB of hard diskspace and Microsoft .NET Framework 2.0installed, would be sufficient.ReferencesDuni Chander.
1964.
Punjabi Bhasha da Viakaran(Punjabi).
Punjab University Publication Bureau,Chandigarh, India.Daniel Naber.
2003.
A Rule-Based Style and GrammarChecker.
Diplomarbeit Technische Fakult?t,Universit?t Bielefeld, Germany.
(Available at:http://www.danielnaber.de/languagetool/download/style_and_grammar_checker.pdf (1/10/2007))Harjeet S. Gill and Henry A. Gleason, Jr. 1986.
AReference Grammar of Punjabi.
Publication Bureau,Punjabi University, Patiala, India.Joginder S. Puar.
1990.
The Punjabi verb form andfunction.
Publication Bureau, Punjabi University,Patiala, India.Md.
Jahangir Alam, Naushad UzZaman, and MumitKhan.
2006.
N-gram based Statistical GrammarChecker for Bangla and English.
In Proc.
of ninthInternational Conference on Computer andInformation Technology (ICCIT 2006), Dhaka,Bangladesh.944
