A Discourse Resource for Turkish:Annotating Discourse Connectives in the METU CorpusDeniz ZeyrekDepartment of Foreign LanguageEducationMiddle East Technical UniversityAnkara, Turkeydezeyrek@metu.edu.trBonnie WebberSchool of InformaticsUniversity of EdinburghEdinburgh, Scotlandbonnie@inf.ed.ac.ukAbstractThis paper describes first steps towardsextending the METU Turkish Corpusfrom a sentence-level language resource toa discourse-level resource by annotatingits discourse connectives and theirarguments.
The project is based on thesame principles as the Penn DiscourseTreeBank (http://www.seas.upenn.edu/~pdtb)and is supported by TUBITAK, TheScientific and Technological ResearchCouncil of Turkey.
We first present thegoals of the project and the METUTurkish corpus.
We then describe how wedecided what to take as explicit discourseconnectives and the range of syntacticclasses they come from.
Withrepresentative examples of each class, weexamine explicit connectives, their linearordering, and types of syntactic units thatcan serve as their arguments.
We thentouch upon connectives with respect tofree word order in Turkish andpunctuation, as well as the important issueof how much material is needed to specifyan argument.
We close with a briefdiscussion of current plans.1 IntroductionThe goal of the project is to extend the METUTurkish Corpus (Say et al 2002) from a sentence-level language resource to a discourse-levelresource by annotating its discourse connectives,and their arguments.
The 2-million word METUTurkish Corpus (MTC) is an electronic resource of520 samples of continuous text from 291 differentsources written between 1990-2000.
It includesmultiple genres, such as novels, short stories,newspaper columns, biographies, memoirs, etc.annotated topographically, i.e., for paragraphboundaries, author, publication date, and thesource of the text.
A small part of the MTC, calledthe METU-Sabanc?
TreeBank (5600 sentences) hasbeen annotated with morphological features anddependency relationships (e.g., modifier-of,subject-of, object-of, etc.).
The result is a set ofdependency trees.
The MTC as a whole provides alarge-scale resource on Turkish discourse and isbeing used in research on Turkish.
To date, therehave been 81 requests for permission to use theMTC and 31 requests to use the TreeBank sub-corpus.
Most of the users are linguists, computer orcognitive scientists working on Turkish, orgraduate students of similar disciplines.
Someusers have expressed a desire for the MTC to beextended by annotations at the discourse level,which provides further impetus for the presentproject.The result of annotating discourse connectiveswill be a clearly defined level of discoursestructure on the MTC.
Annotation of text from themultiple genres present in the MTC will allow usto compare the distribution of connectives andtheir arguments across genres.
The annotation willhelp researchers understand Turkish discourse byenabling them to give concise, clear descriptions ofthe issues concerning discourse structure andsemantics, and support a rigorous empiricalThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200865characterization of where and how the free word-order in a language like Turkish is sensitive tofeatures of the surrounding discourse.
It can thusserve as a major resource for natural languageprocessing, language technology and pedagogy.2 Overview of Turkish DiscourseConnectivesFrom a semantic perspective, a discourseconnective is a predicate that takes as itsarguments, abstract objects (propositions, facts,events, descriptions, situations, and eventualities).The primary linguistic unit in which abstractobjects (AOs) are realized in Turkish is the clause,either tensed or untensed.
Discourse connectivesthemselves may be realized explicitly or implicitly.An explicit connective is realized in the form of alexical item or a group of lexical items, while animplicit connective can be inferred from adjacenttext spans that realise AOs and whose AOs aretaken to be related.
To constrain the amount of textselected for arguments, a minimality principle canbe imposed, limiting arguments to the minimumamount of information needed to complete theinterpretation of the discourse relation.
The projectwill initially focus on annotating explicitconnectives, integrating implicit ones at a laterstage.One of the most challenging issues so far hasbeen determining the set of explicit discourseconnectives in Turkish (i.e., the various linguisticelements that can be interpreted as predicates onAO arguments) and the syntactic classes they areidentified with.
In the Penn Discourse TreeBank(PDTB), the explicit discourse connectives weretaken to comprise (1) coordinating conjunctions,(2) subordinating conjunctions, and (3) discourseadverbials (Forbes-Riley et al 2006).
Butcoordinating and subordinating conjunctions arenot classes in Turkish per se.
Moreover, most ofthe existing grammars of Turkish describe clausaladjuncts and adverbs in semantic (e.g., temporal,additive, resultative, etc.)
rather than syntacticterms.
We therefore made a rough classificationfirst and determined the broad syntactic classes byconsidering the morpho-syntactic properties sharedby elements of the initial classification.As a result of this process, we have come toidentify explicit discourse connectives in Turkishwith three grammatical types, forming five classes:(a) Coordinating conjunctions such as singlelexical items ??nk?
?because?, ama ?but,?ve ?and?, and the particle dA.
(N.B., dAcan also function as a subordinator.
)(b) Paired coordinating conjunctions such ashem .. hem ?both and,?
ne .. ne ?neithernor?
which link two clauses, with oneelement of the pair associated with eachclause in the discourse relation.
(c) Simplex subordinators (also termed asconverbs), i.e., suffixes forming non-finiteadverbial clauses, e.g.
?
(y)kAn, ?while?, -(y)ArAk ?by means of?.
(d) Complex subordinators, i.e., connectiveswhich have two parts, usually apostposition (ra?men ?despite?, i?in ?for?,gibi ?as well as?)
and an accompanyingsuffix on the (non-finite) verb of thesubordinate clause.1(e)  Anaphoric connectives such as ne var ki?however?, ?stelik ?what is more?, ayr?ca?apart from this?, ilk olarak ?firstly?, etc.In the PDTB, non-finite clauses have not beenannotated as arguments.
However, since all non-finite clauses are marked with a suffix in Turkish(see sections 4.1 and 4.2 below) and encode arelation between AOs, we would have missed animportant property of the language if we had notidentified them as discourse connectives (cf.Prasad et al, 2008).All the discourse connectives above haveexactly two arguments.
So as in English, whileverbs in Turkish can vary in the number ofarguments they take, Turkish discourseconnectives take two and only two arguments.These can conveniently be called ARG1 andARG2.
It remains an open question whether thereis any language in which discourse connectivestake more than two arguments.In the following, we give representativeexamples of each of the above five classes ofdiscourse connectives and discuss the assignmentof the argument labels, linear order of argumentsand types of arguments.
By convention, we label1Postpositions correspond to prepositions in English, thoughthere are many fewer of them.
They form a subordinate clauseby nominalizing their complements and marking them withthe dative, ablative, or the possessive case.
In the examplesgiven in this paper, suffixes are shown in upper-case letters.Case suffixes are underlined in addition to being presented inupper-case letters.The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200866the argument containing (or with an affinity for)the connective as ARG2 (presented in boldface)and the other argument as ARG1 (presented initalics).
Discourse connectives are underlined.
Thisannotation convention is used in the Englishtranslations as well.
Except for examples (12),(13), (19), (20), all examples have been taken fromthe MTC.3 Coordinating conjunctions3.1 Simple coordinating conjunctionsCoordinating conjunctions are like English andcombine two clauses of the same syntactic type,e.g., two main clauses.
They are typicallysentence-medial and show an affinity with thesecond clause (evidenced in part throughpunctuation and their ability to move to the end ofthe second clause).
Whether a coordinatingconjunction links clauses within a single sentenceor clauses across adjacent sentences (cf.
Section 6),it shows an affinity with the second clause.
ThusARG2 of these conjunctions is the second clauseand ARG1 is the first clause.
(1) Yap?lar?n?
kerpi?ten yap?yorlar, ama sonra ta??kullanmay?
??reniyorlar.
Mimarl?k a?
?s?ndan ?ok?nemli, ??nk?
bu yap?
malzemesini ba?ka birmalzemeyle beraber kullanmay?, ilk defaburada g?r?yoruz.
?They constructed their buildings first from mud-bricks but then they learnt to use the stone.Architecturally, this is very important because wesee the use of this construction material withanother one at this site for the first time.
?The particle dA can serve a discourseconnective function with an additive (Example 2)or adversative sense (Example 3).
In contrast withcoordinating conjunctions, the order of argumentsto dA is normally ARG2-ARG1, thus exhibiting asimilarity with subordinators (see below).However, since dA combines two clauses of thesame syntactic type, we take it to be a simplecoordinating conjunction.
(2) Konu?may?
unuttum diyorum da g?l?yorlarbana.
?I said I?ve forgotton to talk and they laughed atme.?
(3) Belki bir ?ocu?umuz olsa onunla oyalan?rd?mda  Allah k?smet etmedi.
?If we had a child I would keep myself busywith her/him but God did not predestine it.
?3.2 Paired coordinating conjunctionsPaired coordinating conjunctions are composed oftwo lexical items, with the second often a duplicateof the first element.
These lexical items express asingle discourse relation, such as disjunction as inexample (4).
The order of arguments is ARG1-ARG2 and the position of the conjunctions isclause-initial.
(4) Birilerinin ya i?i vard?r, aceleyle y?r?rler, yako?arlar.
?Some people are either busy and walk hurriedly,or they run.
?4 Subordinators4.1 Simplex subordinatorsWhen a subordinate clause is reduced in Turkish, itloses its tense, aspect and mood properties.
In thisway, it becomes a nominal or adverbial clauseassociated with the matrix verb.
The relationship ofan adverbial clause with the AO expressed by thematrix verb and its arguments is conveyed by asmall set of suffixes corresponding to English?while?, ?when?, ?by means of?, ?as if?, or  temporal?since?, added to the non-finite verb of the reducedclause.
This pair of non-finite verb and suffix, wecall a ?converb?.
The normal order of thearguments of a converb is ARG2-ARG1, where theconverb appears as the last element of ARG2.
Thefollowing example illustrates ?
(y)ArAk ?by meansof?
and its arguments:(5) Kafiye Han?m beni kucaklad?, yana??n?
yana?
?mas?rterek iyi yolculuklar diledi.
?Kafiye hugged me and by rubbing her cheekagainst mine, she wished me a good trip.
?4.2 Complex subordinatorsComplex subordinators constitute a larger set thanthe set of simplex subordinators.
Here, a lexicalitem, usually a postposition, must appear with anominalizing suffix and, if required, a case suffixas well.
If the verb of the clause does not have asubject, it is nominalized with ?mAk (the infinitivesuffix).
If  it has a subject, it is nominalized with -DIK (past) or ?mA (non-past) and carries thepossessive marker agreeing with the subject of theThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200867verb.
The normal order of the arguments of acomplex subordinator is the same as withconverbs, i.e., ARG2-ARG1.
The nominalizer, thepossessive and the case suffix (if any) appearattached to the non-finite verb of ARG2 in thatorder.
The connective appears as the last elementof ARG2.Some postpositions have multiple senses,depending on the type of nominalizer attached tothe non-finite verb.
For example, the postpositioni?in means causal ?since?
with ?DIK (Example 6),and ?so as to?
with ?mA or ?mAk (Example 7).
Inthese examples, the lexical part of the complexsubordinator is underlined, and the suffixes on thenon-finite verb of ARG2 rendered in small caps.
(6) Herkes ?oktan pazara ?
?kTI?I i?in kentin o dar,e?ri b??r?
arka sokaklar?n?
bo?alm??
ve sessizbulurduk.
?Since everyone has gone to the bazaar longtime ago, we would find the narrow and curvedback streets of the town empty and quiet.?
(7) [Turhan Baytop] Paris Eczac?l?k Fak?ltesiFarmakognozi k?rs?s?nde g?rg?
ve bilgisiniartt?rMAK i?in ?al??m??t?r.
?Turhan Baytop worked at Paris PharmacologyFaculty so as to increase his experience andknowledge,?Since postpositions also have a non-discourserole in which they signal a verb?s arguments and/oradjuncts, we will only annotate postpositions asdiscourse connectives when they have clausalelements as arguments.
Given that a clausalelement always has a nominalizing suffix, thedistinction will be straightforward.
For example, in(8) i?in takes an NP complement (marked with thepossessive case) and will not be annotated, whilein (9) ra?men  ?despite?
comes with a nominalizerand the dative suffix, and it will be annotated:(8) Bunun i?in paraya ihtiyac?m?z var.
?We need money for this.?
(9) ?ok iyi bir bi?imde yay?lm??
olMASINAra?men Celtis (?itlenbik) poleninin yoklu?udikkate de?erdir.
?Despite not dispersing well, the absence of theCeltis [tree] polen is worthy of attention.
?In general, both parts of a complex subordinatormust be realized in the discourse.
An exception is?if?
e?er and its accompanying suffix ?sE (and themarker agreeing with the subject of the subordinateclause where necessary).
The suffix suffices tointroduce a discourse relation on its own, evenwithout the postposition e?er:(10) Salman Rushdi ?ld?r?l?rSE ?slam dini bundanbir onur mu kazanacak?
?If Salman Rushdi was to be killed, would theIslam religion be honoured??
(11) E?er sigaray?
b?rakmak i?in m?kemmelzaman?
bekliyorSAn?z asla sigaray?b?rakamazs?n?z.
?If you are waiting for the best time to stopsmoking, you can never stop smoking?5 Anaphoric connectivesThe fifth type of explicit discourse connectives areanaphoric connectives.
Anaphoric connectives aredistinguished from clausal adverbs like ?o?unlukla?usually?, mutlaka ?definitely, maalesef?regrettably?, which are interpreted only withrespect to their matrix sentence.
In contrast,anaphoric connectives also require an AO from asentence or group of sentences adjacent (Example12) or non-adjacent (Example 13) to the sentencecontaining the connective.
Another importantproperty of anaphoric connectives is that they canaccess the inferences in the prior discourse(Webber et al2003).
This material is neitheraccessible by other types of discourse connectivesnor clausal connectives.
For example, in example(14), the anaphoric connective yoksa ?or else,otherwise?
accesses the inference that theorganizations have not united and hence did notintroduce political strategies unique to Turkey.
(12) Ali hi?
spor yapmaz.
Sonu?
olarak ?ok istedi?ihalde kilo veremiyor.
?Ali never exercises.
Consequently, he can?t loseweight although he wants to very much.?
(13) Zeynep ?nceleri Bodrum?da oturdu.
Krediyledeniz kenar?nda bir ev ald?.
Evi dayad?, d?
?edi,bah?eye yasemin ekti.
Ne var ki banka kredisini?deyemedi?inden evi satmak zorunda kald?.
?Zeynep first lived in Mersin.
She bought a houseby the sea on credit.
She furnished it fully andplanted jasmine in the garden.
However, she hadto sell the house because she couldn?t pay backthe credit.
?The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200868(14) Bu ?rg?tlerin birle?erek T?rkiye?yi etkilemesi veT?rkiye?ye ?zg?
politikalar?
g?ndeme getirmesilaz?m.
Yoksa Tony Blair ?
?yle yapt?
?imdi bizde ?imdi b?yle yapaca?
?zla olmaz.
?These organizations must unite, have an impacton Turkey and introduce political strategiesunique to Turkey.
Or else talking about whatTony Blair did and hoping to do what he did isoutright wrong.
?6 Ordering flexibility of explicit discourseconnectives and their argumentsIn Turkish, the linear ordering of coordinatingconjunctions and subordinators and the clauses inwhich they occur shows some flexibility as towhere in the clause they appear or as to theordering of the clauses.
For example, coordinatingconjunctions may appear at the beginning of theirARG2, i.e.
S-initially.
This was shown earlier inExample (1).
The sentences below illustrate ama?but?
and ??nk?
?because?
used at this position.
(15) Hatem A?a?n?n mal?na kimse yana?amaz,dokunamazd?.
Ama Osman gitmi?, HatemA?a?n?n ?iftli?ini yakm??t?.
?No one could approach and touch AghaHatem?s property.
But Osman had burnt AghaHatem?s ranch.?
(16) S?z ?zg?rl??
?n?n belli yasalar, belli ilkeler?er?evesinde kalmak zorunda oldu?unubiliyoruz.
?
?nk?, b?t?n ?zg?rl?kler gibi, bellis?n?rlar a?
?l?nca, ba?kalar?na zarar vermek,ba?kalar?n?n ?zg?rl?klerini zedelemek s?zkonusu oluyor.
?We know that freedom of speech should remainwithin the limits of certain laws and principles.Because, like all the other freedoms, whencertain constraints are violated, one mayharm others?
freedom.
?But coordinating conjunctions may also appear atthe end of their ARG2 and so will appear S-finallyin sentences with ARG1-ARG2 order.
Below, weillustrate two cases of ama ?but?
and ??nk??because?.
(17) Kaz?yabildi?ini sildi, biriktirdi mendilinin i?ine.
?aba isteyen zor bir i?ti bu yapt???
ama.
?He wiped the area he had scraped and saved allhe could scrape in his rag.
But what he wasdoing was a difficult job, requiring effort.?
(18) Kimi m?
?teriler dore rengi kuma?larla, sar?taftalarla gelirdi de, elim dolu yapamam, diyegeri ?evirirdi, pek anlam veremezdim.
Paray?severdi ??nk?.
?Some customers would come with gold colouredfabrics and yellow taffeta weaves but he wouldreject them saying his hands were full, which Icould not give any meaning to.
Because he lovedmoney.
?In contrast, the position of a subordinator (bothsimplex and complex) in its ARG2 clause is fixed:it must appear at the end of the clause, as shown inexample (19).
However, the clause is free in thesentence and may be moved to the right of thesentence, as in example (20).
It is a matter ofempirical research to find out whether differentgenres vary more in how clauses are ordered andwhat motivates preposing of ARG1.
(19) Ay?e konu?urken ben dinlemiyordum.
?I was not listening while Ay?e was talking.?
(20) Ben dinlemiyordum Ay?e konu?urken.
?I was not listening while Ay?e was talking.
?7 Issues and plansAs mentioned above, we also plan to annotateimplicit connectives between adjacent sentences orclauses whose relation is not explicitly markedwith a discourse connective.
This we will do at alater stage, after explicit connectives have beenannotated, following the procedure used inannotating implicit connectives in the PDTB(PDTB-Group, 2006).
Preliminary analysis hasshown that punctuation serves as a useful hint ininserting a coordinating conjunctions such as ?and?or an anaphoric connective such as ?then?
or?consequently?
between the multiple adjacent mainclauses that can occur in a Turkish sentenceseparated by a comma.
Example (21) illustratesthese cases.
(21) Y?r?yor, Imp = THEN oturuyor, resim yapmaya?al??
?yor ama yapam?yor, tabela yazmaya?al??
?yor ama yazam?yor, Imp= CONSEQUENTLYs?k?l?p soka?a ?
?k?yor, Imp=AND bisikletineatlad???
gibi pedallara bas?yor.
?He walks around, then sits down and tries todraw, but he can?t.
He tries to inscribe words onthe wooden plaque, but again he can?t.Consequently he gets bored, goes out, and hopson his bike and pedals.
?The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200869A second important issue that will have to betackled in the project is determining how muchmaterial is needed to specify the argument of adiscourse connective.
Annotation will be on textspans, rather than on syntactic structure.
Thisreflects two facts: First, there is only a smallamount of syntactically treebanked data in theMTC, and secondly, as has been discovered forEnglish, one can not assume that discourse unitsmap directly to syntactic units (Dinesh et al 2005).Preliminary analysis also shows that discourseunits may not coincide with a clause in its entirety.For example, in examples (9) and (16), one cantake ARG1 to cover only the nominal complementof the matrix verb: The rest of the clause is notnecessary to the discourse relation.
The ways inwhich the arguments of a discourse connectivemay diverge from syntactic units must becharacterized for Turkish as is being done forEnglish (Dinesh et al 2005).A third issue we will investigate is whetherdifferent senses of a subordinator may be identifiedsimply from the type of nominalizing suffixrequired on the subordinate verb.
For example, wehave noted in examples (6) and (7) that the twosenses of the postposition i?in (namely, ?since(causal)?
and ?in order to?)
are disambiguated bythe nominalizing suffixes.
The extent to whichmorphology aids sense disambiguation is anempirical issue that will be further addressed in theproject.AcknowledgementWe would like to thank Sumru ?zsoy, Asl?
G?kseland Cem Boz?ahin for their comments on anearlier version of this paper.
The first author alsothanks the Caledonian Research Foundation andthe Royal Society of Edinburgh for awarding herwith the European Visiting Research Fellowship,which made this research possible.
All remainingerrors are ours.ReferencesNikhil Dinesh, Alan Lee, Eleni Miltsakaki, RashmiPrasad, Aravind Joshi and Bonnie Webber (2005).Attribution and the (Non-)Alignment of Syntacticand Discourse  Arguments of Connectives.Proceedings of the ACL Workshop on Frontiers inCorpus Annotation II: Pie in the Sky.
Ann Arbor,Michigan.
June 2005.Katherine Forbes-Riley, Bonnie Webber and AravindJoshi (2006).
Computing Discourse Semantics: ThePredicate-Argument  Semantics of DiscourseConnectives in D-LTAG.
Journal of Semantics 23,pp.
55?106.Asl?
G?ksel and Celia Kerslake (2005).
Turkish: AComprehensive Grammar.
London and New York:Routledge.Kornfilt, Jacklin (1997).
Turkish.
London and NewYork: Routledge.PDTB-Group (2006).
The Penn Discourse TreeBank1.0 Annotation Manual.
Technical Report IRCS 06-01, University of Pennsylvania.Rashmi Prasad, Samar Husain, Dipti Sharma andAravind Joshi (2008).
Towards an Annotated Corpusof Discourse Relations in Hindi.
The ThirdInternational Joint Conference on Natural LanguageProcessing, January 7-12, 2008.Bilge Say, Deniz Zeyrek, Kemal Oflazer and Umut?zge (2002).
Development of a Corpus and aTreeBank for Present-day Written Turkish.Proceedings of the Eleventh InternationalConference of Turkish Linguistics, EasternMediterranean University, Cyprus, August 2002.Bonnie Webber, Aravind Joshi, Matthew Stone andAlistair Knott (2003).
Anaphora and DiscourseStructure.
Computational Linguistics 29 (4) 547-588.Appendix: A preliminary list of explicitdiscourse connectives found in the MTC belongingto five syntactic classes and their EnglishequivalentsSimple coordinatingconjunctionsEnglish equivalentama butfakat but??nk?
becausedA and, buthalbuki despiteoysa despite?nce beforesonra afterve andveya orya da orveyahut orThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200870Paired coordinatingconjunctionsEnglish equivalenthem .. hem both andya .. ya either orgerek .. gerek(se) either orSimplex subordinators(Converbs)English equivalent-ArAk by means of-Ip and-(y)kEn while, whereas-(y)AlI since-(I)ncA whenComplex subordinators English equivalent-Ir gibi as if, as though-e?er (y)sE if-dI?I zaman when-dI?I kadar as much as-dI?I gibi as well as-dAn sonra after-dAn ?nce before-dAn dolay?
due to-(y)sE dA even though-(y)Incaya kadar/dek  until-(y)AlI beri since (temporal)-(n)A ra?men/kar?
?l?k despite, although-(n)A g?re since (causal)Anaphoric connectives English equivalentaksi halde if not, otherwiseaksine on the contrarybu nedenle for this reasonbuna ra?men/kar?
?l?k despite thisbundan ba?ka besides thisbunun yerine instead of thisdahas?
moreover, in additionilk olarak firstly, first of all?rne?in for examplemesela for examplesonu?
olarak consequently?stelik what is moreyoksa otherwiseard?ndan afterwardsThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200871The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200872
