Social Network Inspired Models of NLP and Language EvolutionMonojit ChoudhuryMicrosoft Research Lab India196/36 2nd Main, Sadashivnagar, Bangalore, India 560080monojitc@microsoft.comAnimesh Mukherjee and Niloy GangulyDepartment of Computer Science and EngineeringIndian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, India 721302{animesh,niloy}@cse.iitkgp.ernet.inAbstractHuman language with all its intricacies is per-haps one of the finest examples of a complex sys-tem.
Therefore, it becomes absolutely necessaryto study the faculty of language from the perspec-tive of a complex system.
Of late, there has beenan upsurge in the use of networks in modeling thecomplex dynamics of various natural and artificialsystems.
While some of these works aim at us-ing social network techniques to build certain end-user applications, others are more fundamental inthe sense that they employ these techniques to ex-plain the emergent properties of a complex systemas a whole.
A substantial amount of research havealso been done in the field of linguistics to employsocial networks in the design of efficient solutionsfor numerous problems in NLP and language evolu-tion.
The objective of this tutorial is to show howlanguage and its dynamics can be successfully stud-ied in the framework of social networks.
The tuto-rial will particularly demonstrate the relevance of so-cial network-based methods in the development of alarge variety of NLP applications and in understand-ing the dynamics of language evolution and change.The tutorial is divided into two parts.
Part I beginswith a brief introduction to this field showing howlinguistic entities and the interactions between themcan be respectively represented through the nodesand edges of a network.
This will be followed by acomprehensive survey of the general theory of socialnetworks with a special emphasis on the methods ofanalysis and models of synthesis for such networks.Part II presents three case studies.
The first casestudy is on unsupervised POS tagging, the secondone involves modeling of the mental lexicon and ap-plications of such models in spell checking and wordsense disambiguation.
The third case study demon-strates the usefulness of social networks in explain-ing some of the evolutionary dynamics of languagepertaining to the sound inventories.The tutorial is concluded by (a) comparing theabove methods with more traditional methods of do-ing NLP, (b) providing pointers as to where to lookfor/publish materials in this area, and, (c) indicatingsome of the future research directions.BiographyMonojit Choudhury is a post doctoral researcherat Microsoft Research, India.
He has submitted hisPhD from the Department of Computer Science andEngineering, IIT Kharagpur and earlier, received hisB.Tech from the same department.
Mr. Choudhuryreceived the Young Scientist Award from the IndianScience Congress Association in 2003.Animesh Mukherjee is a PhD student in the De-partment of Computer Science and Engineering, IITKharagpur and also a Microsoft Research fellow.He received his MTech from the same department,and BTech from Haldia Institute of Technology.
Mr.Mukherjee received the Young Scientist Award fromthe Indian Science Congress Association in 2006.Niloy Ganguly is an assistant professor in the De-partment of Computer Science and Engineering, IITKharagpur.
He has received his PhD in ComputerScience from Bengal Engineering and Science Uni-versity, Calcutta and his Bachelors from IIT Kharag-pur.
He was a post doctoral fellow in TechnicalUniversity of Dresden, Germany.
He has numer-ous publications in international journals and con-ferences including ACL, PODC, SIGCOMM, ACMand IEEE Trans.937
