Corpus Building for Mongolian LanguagePurev JaimaiCenter for Research on Language Processing,National University of Mongolia, Mongoliapurev@num.edu.mnOdbayar ChimeddorjCenter for Research on Language Processing,National University of Mongolia, Mongoliaodbayar@num.edu.mnAbstractThis paper presents an ongoing researchaimed to build the first corpus, 5 millionwords, for Mongolian language by focus-ing on annotating and tagging corpus textsaccording to TEI XML (McQueen, 2004)format.
Also, a tool, MCBuilder, whichprovides support for flexibly and manuallyannotating and manipulating the corpustexts with XML structure, is presented.1 IntroductionMongolian researchers quite recently have begunto be involved in the research area of Natural Lan-guage Processing.
All necessary linguistic re-sources, which are required for Mongolian lan-guage processing, have to be built from scratch,and then they should be shared in public researchfor the rapid development of Mongolian languageprocessing.This ongoing research aims to build a taggedand parsed 5 million words corpus for Mongolianby developing a spell-checker, tagger, sentence-parser and others (see Figure 1 and 2).
Also, weneeded to develop a tagset for the corpus becausethere was not any tagset for Mongolian and thetraditional words categories are not appropriate toit.
Thus, we designed a high level tagset, whichconsists of 20 tags, and are further classifying them.Currently, we have collected and populated 500thousand words, 50 thousand of which have beenmanually tagged, into the corpus (see Figure 1).Figure 1.
Current and future states of building aMongolian corpus.And, we manually build the corpus until collect-ing and annotating 1 million words and tagging100 thousand words of them for semi-automatically building the corpus in the future.2 Corpus Building DesignWe are building the corpus as sub-corpora, whichare a raw corpus, a cleaned corpus, a tagged corpusand a parsed corpus, separately for various kinds ofstudying and use on Mongolian language (Figure2).Figure 2.
Schema of building a Mongoliancorpus.At first, we are collecting the editorial articles ofUnen newspaper (Unen publish), which is one ofThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200897the best written newspapers in Mongolia, by usingOCR application.
We will also collect laws, schoolbook, and literary text (see Figure 3).Figure 3.
Text sizes included in the corpus.The corpus annotation follows TEI XML stan-dard.
According to the work scope, the annotatingpart is divided into two parts that are structural an-notation such as paragraphs, sentences, and so on,and POS tagging.The structure of the text annotation is presentedin Figure 4.<tei><teiHeader><fileDesc/ ></teiHeader><text><body><s><word id="" pos="tag">WORD</word></s></body></text></tei>Figure 4.
XML Structure of corpus text.For annotating two parts, once a manual corpusbuilder, called MCBuilder, were planned to de-velop, we have developed the first version andused to annotating 500 thousand word texts andtagging 50 of them (see Figure 5).Figure 5.
Screenshot of the corpus organizer andits main view.MCBuilder has three main windows that are (1)manipulating and organizing the corpus, (2) anno-tating sample texts and (3) manipulating tagset asshown in Figure 5.3 ConclusionMongolian language has hardly studied by com-puter, and its traditional rules such as inflectional,derivational, part of speech, sentence constituents,etc are extremely difficult to computerize.
Our re-search works in the last few years showed it(Purev, 2006).
Therefore, we are revising them bycreating a corpus for computer processing.The proposals of this ongoing research are thefirst Mongolian 5 million words corpus, and toolsthat are spell-checker, tagger and parser.Currently, we have done followings:?
Defined the corpus design, XML structureof the corpus text, and  the high level tagset?
Collected and annotated 500 thousandwords text?
Tagged 50 thousand words?
Released the first version of a Mongoliancorpus building tool called MCBuilder?
First versions of Syllable-parser andMorph-analyzer for MongolianWe are planning to complete the corpus in thenext two years.4 AcknowledgementHere described work was carried out by support ofPAN Localization Project (PANL10n).ReferencesPANL10n: PANLocalization Project.
National Univer-sity of Computer and Emerging Sciences, Pakistan.Purev J.
2006.
Corpus for Mongolian Language, Re-search Project, Mongolia.Purev J. and Odbayar Ch.. 2006.
Towards Constructingthe Corpus of Mongolian Language, Proceeding ofICEIC.Sperberg-McQueen, C. M. and Burnard, L.. 2004.
TextEncoding Initiative.
The XML version of the TEIGuidelines, Website.Unen press.
1984-1989.
Editorial Articles.
MongoliaThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200898
