Balanced Corpus of Contemporary Written JapaneseKikuo MaekawaDept.
Language Research, National Institute for Japanese Language10-2, Midori-cho, Tachikawa-shi, Tokyo 190-8561 JAPANkikuo@kokken.go.jpAbstractConstruction of 100 million words bal-anced corpus of contemporary writtenJapanese is underway at the National Insti-tute for Japanese Language.
The uniqueproperty of the corpus consists in that themajority of its sample texts are selectedrandomly from well-defined statisticalpopulations covering wide range of writtentexts.1 IntroductionA serious problem in corpus-based analysis of theJapanese language is the lack of reliable balancedcorpus.
Most of the corpus-based studies ofcontemporary Japanese are based upon theanalyses of text archive of newspaper articles,archive of copyright-expired literary work (AozoraBunko), or crawling of the Internet text.Putting aside the problems of the copyright-expired literary works, which are definitely too oldto be the material for the study of the contempo-rary Japanese, lack of balanced corpus imposestwo mutually related problems on linguistic studies.Most of newspaper articles are written by newspa-per writers who are very much aware of the estab-lished writing style (and orthography) of newspa-per articles.
Accordingly, it is the genre of textwhere variations of all sorts are suppressed to theminimum level.On the other hand, the results of internet crawl-ing using search engines like Google are verymuch likely to include texts covering wide range oftexts.
It is also expected that considerable amountof linguistic variations are to be observed.It is, however, very difficult, if not impossible,to conduct analyses of style difference and/or lin-guistic variations using the results of internetcrawling, because the information about the genreof texts and/or the writers are usually missing.Moreover, the amount of retrieved texts can oftenbe too large to be classified by hand.There is also a problem of skewed distributionof texts caused by copyright protection.
Copyright-protected materials, especially literary works, willnot usually show up in the Internet.To solve these problems in Japanese corpus lin-guistics, National Institute for Japanese Language(NIJL, hereafter) has launched a corpus compila-tion project in the spring of 2006, aiming at publicrelease of Japan?s first 100 million words balancedcorpus in the year of 2011.
The corpus is namedthe Balanced Corpus of Contemporary WrittenJapanese, or BCCWJ.Figure 1.
The three components of the BCCWJ.2 Design of the BCCWJAs shown in the figure 1, the BCCWJ consists of 3component sub-corpora, viz., ?publication?, ?li-brary?, and ?special purpose?
sub-corpora.2.1 Publication sub-corpusThe upper left-hand sub-corpus of the figure 1 iscalled ?publication?
sub-corpus.
This is also calledPUBLICATION(PRODUCTION)SUB-CORPUSBooks, Magazines, andNewspapers, 35 millionwords.
2001-2005LIBRARY(CIRCULATION)SUB-CORPUSBooks30 million words.1986-2005SPECIAL PURPOSE SUB-CORPUSWhitepaper, Diet minute, Web text, Textbooks, etc.
35million words.
1975-2005The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 2008101?production?
sub-corpus.
As the name suggests,this sub-corpus represents the production, as op-posed to the reception aspect of contemporarywritten Japanese.
The sub-corpus consists of sam-ples extracted randomly from the statistical popula-tion covering the whole body of books, magazines,and newspapers published during 2001-2005.The population was constructed using thesources that are publicly available; J-BISC (JapanBiblio Disc) and Periodicals in Print in Japanwere used as the sources for books and magazinesrespectively.
The data for newspapers was avail-able from the association of newspaper companies(Nihon Shinbun Kyoukai).
The total number ofcharacters involved in the population was esti-mated and samples for the BCCWJ were drawn inthe way that each character in the population hadthe same chance of being sampled.It is to be noted at this point that the compositionratios among text genres (i.e.
the ratio among sam-ples of books, magazines, and newspapers) weredetermined on the basis of publicly available datamentioned above.
This makes crucial differencefrom the designs of corpora like the Brown Corpusand the BNC, where the composition ratios of vari-ous genres were determined subjectively by spe-cialists of the English language without makingreference to any objective data.The total size of the sub-corpus is supposed to beabout 34.7 million words; and, 74.1, 16.1, and9.8% of the sub-corpus are to be devoted to thesamples of books, magazines, and newspapers re-spectively.2.2 Library sub-corpusThe second sub-corpus is called ?library?
or ?circu-lation?
sub-corpus.
The sampling population forthis sub-corpus was the whole books registered inat least 13 public libraries in the Tokyo Metropolis.The population thus defined contains about335,000 books.
According to our estimation, morethan 48 billion characters are included in this popu-lation, which is nearly the same amount as thepopulation of the book part of the publication sub-corpus.There are two important differences between thepublication and library sub-corpora.
Firstly, thetexts of the library sub-corpora represent thosebooks that were accepted by a certain number ofreaders, while the texts in the publication sub-corpora have no guarantee of the sort.Secondly, the library sub-corpus covers the pe-riod of time 1986-2005 (1986 was the year whenthe ISBN book classification system was adoptedby most of major publishing companies), while theperiod of time covered by the publication sub-corpus is 2001-2005.2.3 Special-purpose sub-corpusThe last sub-corpus is called ?special purpose?
or?out-of-population?
sub-corpus.
This is the aggre-gate of various special purpose mini corpora, and,unlike the former two sub-corpora, some of themini corpora are not sampled using the techniqueof random sampling (because the populations cannot be defined).The mini corpora currently include texts of gov-ernmental white papers, Internet text (Yahoo!
Ja-pan?s bulletin board Chiebukuro), minutes of thenational diet, school textbooks, and best-sellingbooks of the past 30 years.
Laws and academicpapers will also be included.Most of these mini corpora contain about 5 mil-lion words, and will be utilized in the languagepolicy oriented activities of the NIJL, including therevision of the National list of Chinese Charactersfor Daily Usage (Jouyou kanji hyou).3 Funds and the current statusThe compilation of the BCCWJ is supported by thebudget of the NIJL and the MEXT (ministry ofeducation) Grant-in-Aid for Scientific ResearchPriority Area Program ?Japanese Corpus?
(2006-2010) [1].As of September 2007, texts containing about 30million words have been sampled and stored in theNIJL server, and, the full-text query of the 10 mil-lion words texts that are copyright cleared are pub-licly available on the web [2].Upon its completion, the BCCWJ will be theworld?s first balanced corpus that is designed andcompiled based upon rigid statistical sampling.This will open up a new possibility in Japaneselinguistics, and the design of language corpora ingeneral.References[1] http://www.tokuteicorpus.jp/[2] http://www.kotonoha.gr.jp/demo/The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 2008102
