ASSESSMENT  AND DEVELOPMENT OF POS TAG SETFOR TELUGUDr.Rama Sree R.JRashtriya SanskritVidyapeetha,Tirupatirjramasree@yahoo.comDr.Uma Maheswara Rao GCentral UniversityHyderabadguraohyd@yahoo.comDr.
Madhu Murthy K.VS.V.U.College ofEngineeringTirupatikvmmurthy@yahoo.comABSTRACTIn this paper, we first had a overall study ofexisting POS tag sets for European and Indianlanguages.
Till now, most of the researchdone on POS tagging is for English.
Weobserved that even though the research onPOS tagging for English is done  exhaustively,part-of-speech annotation  in various researchapplications is incomparable which isvariously due to the variations in tag setdefinitions.
We understand that the morpho-syntactic features of the language and thedegree of desire to represent the granularity ofthese morpho-syntactic  features, domain etc.,decide the tags in the tag set.
We thenexamined how POS tagset design has to behandled for Indian languages, taking Telugulanguage into consideration.1.
IntroductionAnnotation is the process of adding someadditional information (grammatical featureslike word category, case indicator, othermorph features) about the word  to each wordof the text.
This additional information iscalled a tag.
The set of all these tags is calleda tag set.
When words are considered inisolation, they can have one or  more numberof  tags for each word.
But when these wordsare used in a certain context, the tagsrepresenting morphological and syntacticfeature reduce to one tag.
The information tobe captured as a tag is an application specificissue (Anne,1997, David, 1994 and David,1995).
A number of tag sets have been evolvedfor a number of languages.
These tag sets notonly differ with each other from language tolanguage, but vary within the language itself.The reasons for the variation  of tags in the tagsets are as follows.
As taggers give additionalinformation like grammatical features such asnumber, gender, person, case markers for nouninflections; tense markers for verbalinflections, the  number of tags used bydifferent systems varies  depending on theinformation encoded in the tag.
However thetag set design plays  a vital role  when data istagged according to it and hence it affects thedevelopment of NLP application tools  withinand across that language.
Languageindependent representation of a tag set help tofind out  the  hidden information like context,structure, syntactic and  semantic aspect of theword.
It also gives an overview of languagemodeling features.2.
Desirable Features of a Tag SetUnfortunately, there does not seem to be muchliterature on standard tag set design.
There is aneed to have standard tag set labels for thewords to encode the same linguisticinformation across the languages.
The tag setlabels of a given language should satisfy thefollowing characteristics.
(1) The words carrying same syntactic,categorical information should be groupedunder the same tag.
For example, alladjectives should be tagged as JJ.The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200885(2) The words which  have same syntax andcome under different categories  shouldclearly be distinguished depending on thecategorical sense  in which it is used in thegiven context.
For example,  the wordbook can be tagged both as noun (NN)and Verb (VB).
(3) The tag set  should also help us to classifyand predict the sense, category of theunknown and foreign words.
For example,consider the sentence,   ?Give it to xyxxy?,POS tagger should be in a position topredict xyxxy  (or any non-sensical string)could be a noun.3.
Sources of Variations among  POS TagSets  for EnglishIn order to identify the reasons for tag setvariations for English,  the  tag sets viz.,  thePenn Treebank (Mitchel, 1993) tag set(PT),UCREL CLAWS7 tag set (UCREL_C7), theInternational Corpus  of English (ICE)  tag set(Greenbaum, 1992)  and the Brown Corpus(BC) tag set (Green, 1997) for English areexamined; the POS tag labels are extracted forsome important  morpho-syntactic featuresand studied to demonstrate the present study.After a careful study, the following pointswere observed with  regard to the differencesin POS tag sets.
(i) Desire to capture more semantic content:BC, ICE, URCEL  tag set are  makingmore subtle distinctions within onecategory than PT.
For example,  POS tagsfor adjectives- PT is not making any cleardistinction for adjectives other than JJ, JJS,JJR, whereas other tag sets aremaintaining fine   granularity.
Suchdifferences can be observed for severalmorpho-syntactic features.
(ii) Corpus Coverage: Depending on thesyntactic distribution of the test corpusunder consideration, there may bevariations.
For example, BC tag set madea wide provision for foreign words (notshown in the above table).
In Britishcorpus, there may be a possibility of thepresence of the test corpus where morenumber of words are borrowed from otherlanguages   into English.
(iii) Desire for precision:  The reason formore number of tags in a tag set is toprecisely capture all linguistic criteriawhich describe morpho-syntactic featuresin detail.
However, there should be abalance between theoretical and actualdistribution of these syntactic features.4.
Tag Sets for Indian LanguagesThe two POS tag sets developed  for Hindi(revised on Nov 15, 2003) and Telugu by IIIT,Hyderabad and    CALTS, Hyderabadrespectively are examined and the followingpoints are observed.Telugu POS  tag set  contains more number ofPOS tag labels.
This difference is due to thereason that Telugu is more inflective thanHindi.
In Hindi nouns are non-inflectional.Karaka  roles are not encoded in Hindi  nounword forms as in Telugu.
Similarly mainverbal roots appear as non-inflective in Hindi.The verbs co-occur with tense, aspect andmodality as separate words  whereas   aspectand modality  are packed into  a single  verbalinflection word in Telugu.
For example,consider the following sentences.English: Ram          killed           Ravana.Hindi :   RAm ne    mArA         Ravana ko.Telugu:  RAmudu   caMpAdu    RAvanunni.For convenience, the word order is maintainedas it is in all the three languages.
In case ofEnglish language,  position gives    the rolesplayed by Rama (subject) and Ravana (object).In case of Hindi, case markers ne and  ko exist,but they  do not inflect  Ram and Ravana.
ButTelugu noun inflections give the informationof case markers also.
Hence there aredifferences in the tag labels of  Hindi andThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200886Telugu language tag sets.
In order to capturethese syntactic (more over they are alsosemantic) information, Telugu  has morenumber of POS tags (nn1,nn2,nn3,nn4,nn5,nn6,nn7) in the place of a single tag(nn) of  Hindi.The POS tags of Telugu are described belowin detail.
(i) Nouns (nAma vAcakAlu- nn) :These tagscapture the nouns and their roles played in thesentence.
The different tags in the subclass arenn1,nn2,nn3,nn4,nn5, nn6 and nn7.Depending on the vibhakti, the nouns get thenumber label to main class, i.e., nn based  onthe karaka relations.
The tag nni stands fornoun oblique form indicating that the noun isin a position to get attached with thesucceeding noun inflection.
(ii) Locative affixes (swAna vAcakAlu ?
nl):Here some locative prepositions   combinedwith the six vibhaktis are listed  as nl1 (pEna-????
), nl4 (pEki-???
?
), nl5 (pEnuMdi-????????
),nl6 (pEni-??? )
etc.
(iii) Prepositions (Vibhakti ?
pp):Sometimesprepositions can occur independently.
Forexample, varaku (????).
Hence all vibhaktisare labelled as pp1,pp2 etc.
(iv) Pronouns (sarva nAmAlu - pr) :Likenouns, all  pronouns  form inflections withvibhaktis.
Accordingly they are named as pr1,pr2 etc.
(v)  Adjectives (Visheshana) : Special type ofadjectives  like Verbal adjectives ( kriyavisheshana)  as vjj, Nominal adejctives(saMjna viseshana) as jj and noninfinitiveverbal adjectives (sahAyaka asamapaka kriya)as ajj etc.
(vi) Other  syntactic categories :  The tagsfor other syntactic categories  like quantifiersas qf, negative meanings as ng etc., are  given.5.
Improvement of Telugu Tag SetIn addition to the above  mentioned tags, somenew tags are introduced  to capture andprovide  finer discrimination of  the semanticcontent of some of the linguistic expressions  acorpus of 12,000 words.
They are explainedbriefly in the succeeding  paragraphs.
(a) Verbal finite negative :  Some words likekAxu (????
), lexu (????)
are verbal finites butthey give the negative meaning of the verbalaction.
If they are tagged  simply as  vf, it isundestood that  some action has taken place.But these words are used in negative sense.In order to capture this feature, we havelabelled  them  as vng.
(b) Verbal nouns wih vibhakti:   Verbalnouns behave in the same way as nouns do,  informing their inflections with  vibhaktis likeAdataM-(????
),    Adatanni-(??????
),Adatamcewa (????
??? )
etc.
At present theyare labelled as nn1, nn2, nn3 etc.
depening onthe affix.
In doing so, the semantic content ofverb is lost.
This would lead to difficulties indisambiguating words at the semantic level.Hence the introduction of POS tags like vnn1,vnn2 etc  is proposed.
(c) Words expressing doubts: There arelinguistic  expressions that express thedoubtfulness as explained below.Doubtfulness of :(i) Verbal finites:Words like uMxo (????
)vunnavo (?????)
etc., express thedoubtfullness of the occurrence of action.To capture this semantic discrimination,POS tag vfw  is introduced.
Previously theyare labelled as vf.
(ii) Nouns: Words which express  thedoubtfulness a noun participation in theaction like rAmudo (??????
), axo (???
)The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200887etc.
Instead of labelling them nn1, they arelabelled them with the tag nnw.The above mentioned  improvements made tothe existing POS tag sets and the  advantagesthereof are as follows.
(i) A finer discrimination is made.
Forexample consider vfw.
In the absence ofthis tag, the verbal inflections   which endwith lexu (????)
could be tagged as vf.Due to this, the verbal inflections whichare completed can be clearly distinguishedfrom theose  verbal inflections whereaction has not  been completed.
(ii)  vnn  tag captures more information thatthe noun present in the verbal inflection isjust a  simple common noun.
In theabsence of this tag, words erroneouslylabelled as nn to which it does not reallybelong.
So these tags accurately capturethe information  present in the words.6.
ConclusionIt is strongly felt that all Indian languagesshould have the same tag set so that theannotated corpus  in corresponding languagesmay be useful in  cross lingual NLPapplications, reducing much load on languageto language transfer engines.
This point can bewell explained by taking analogy of  existingscript representation for Indian Languages.The   ISCII and Unicode representations for allIndian languages  can be viewed appropriatelyin the languages we like,  just by setting theirlanguage code.
There is no one-to-onealphabet mapping in the scripts of IndianLanguages.
For example, the short e,o ( ?,?
)are present in Telugu, while they are notavailable in Hindi, Sanskrit etc.
Similarlyalphabet variations between Telugu and Tamilexist.
Even then, all these issues are takencare of,  in the process of language to languagescript conversion.
Similarly POS variationsacross Indian Languages also should be takencare of.References:Anne Schiller, Simone Teufel, ChristineThielen.
1995.
Guidelines f?r dasTagging deutscher Textcorpus mitSTTS.
Universit?ten Stuttgart undT?bingen.David Elworthy.
1994.
Automatic errordetection in part of speech tagging.
InProceedings of the InternationalConference on New Methods in LanguageProcessing, Manchester.David Elworthy.
1995.
Tagset Design andInflected Languages.
In Proceedings ofthe ACL SIGDAT Workshop, Dublin.Mitchell P Marcus, Beatrice Santorini,Mary Ann Marcinkiewicz.
1993.Building a Large Annotated Corpus ofEnglish: The Penn Treebank.Computational Linguistics.
Volume 19,Number 2,  pp.
313--330 (Special Issue onUsing Large Corpus).Greenbaum S. 1992.
The ICE tag setmanual.
University College London.Green B, Rubun G. 1971.
AutomatedGrammatical Tagging of English.
InDepartment of Linguistics, BrownUniversity.The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200888
