Mining Chinese-English Parallel Corpora from the WebBo LiSchool of Computer ScienceWuhan UniversityWuhan, 430072, Chinawhulibo@gmail.comJuan LiuSchool of Computer ScienceWuhan UniversityWuhan, 430072, Chinaliujuan@whu.edu.cnAbstractParallel corpora are a crucial resource inresearch fields such as cross-lingual infor-mation retrieval and statistical machinetranslation, but only a few parallel corporawith high quality are publicly availablenowadays.
In this paper, we try to solve theproblem by developing a system that canautomatically mine high quality parallelcorpora from the World Wide Web.
Thesystem contains a three-step process.
Thesystem uses a web spider to crawl certainhosts at first.
Then candidate parallel webpage pairs are prepared from thedownloaded page set.
At last, each candi-date pair is examined based on multiplestandards.
We develop novel strategies forthe implementation of the system, whichare then proved to be rather effective by theexperiments towards a multilingual website.1 IntroductionParallel corpora consisting of text in parallel trans-lation plays an important role in data-driven natu-ral language processing technologies such as statis-tical machine translation (Brown et al, 1990) andcross-lingual information retrieval (Landauer andLittman, 1990; Oard, 1997).
But the fact is thatonly a few parallel corpora with high quality arepublicly available such as the United Nations pro-ceedings and the Canadian Parliament proceedings(LDC, 1999).
These corpora are usually small insize, specializing in narrow areas, usually with feesand licensing restrictions, or sometimes out-of-date.For language pairs such as Chinese and English,the lack of parallel corpora is more severe.
Thelack of such kind of resource has been an obstaclein the development of the data-driven natural lan-guage processing technologies.
But the intensehuman labor involved in the development of paral-lel corpora will still make it very hard to changethe current situation by hand.The number of websites containing web pages inparallel translation increases considerably theseyears, which gives hope that we can construct par-allel corpora with high quality in a big scale moreeasily.
In this paper, we present a system namedParallel Corpus Mining System (PCMS) which canautomatically collect Chinese-English parallel webcorpora from the Web.
Similar with previous work,PCMS uses a three-step process.
First, the webspider WebZip1 is used to crawl the hosts specifiedby users.
In the second step, candidate parallel webpage pairs are prepared from the raw web page setfetched based on some outer features of the webpages.
A novel strategy is designed to utilize allthese features to construct high quality candidateparallel page pairs, which can raise the perform-ance and reduce the time complexity of the system.In the third step, candidate page pairs are evaluatedbased on multiple standards in which page struc-ture and content are both considered.
The actuallyparallel page pairs are saved.The content-based strategy in the PCMS systemis implemented mainly based on the vector spacemodel (VSM).
We design a novel implementationof VSM to bilingual text, which is called bilingualvector space model (BVSM).
In previous content-based work, they usually use coarse criterions tomeasure the similarity of bilingual text.
For exam-1 http://www.spidersoft.com/webzip/default.asp847ple, Ma and Liberman (1999) measured the contentsimilarity by the count of parallel token pairs in thetext which are weak at representing the actual con-tent of the text.
VSM was considered for evaluat-ing the similarity of bilingual text in (Chen et al,2004), but unfortunately the particular descriptionof the implementation which was a bit complexwas not mentioned in their work, and the timecomplexity of their system was rather high.
Be-sides, there are also some other types of methodsfor mining parallel corpora from the web such asthe work in (Resnik, 1998), (Resnik and Smith,2003) and (Zhang et al, 2006).
Most of thesemethods are unbalanced between precision andrecall or computationally too complex.
We detailthe implementation of BVSM in the PCMS systemin this paper.
The experiments conducted to a spe-cific website show that PCMS can achieve a betteroverall result than relative work reported.The structure of the paper is as follows.
The sys-tem architecture of PCMS is introduced in Section2.
We introduce the details of the step for prepar-ing candidate web page pairs in Section 3.
Thenext step, candidate page pair evaluation, is de-scribed in Section 4.
We discuss the results of theexperiments and conclude the paper in the last twosections.2 The PCMS SystemThe PCMS system is designed to mine parallelcorpora automatically from the web.
As has beenclarified above, the system employs a three-stepprocess.
The first is a web page fetching step.There are some tools to do the job and the PCMSsystem uses WebZip to fetch all the web pagesfrom specific hosts.
We usually choose some siteswhich probably contain high quality parallel webpages such as the site of the ministry of foreignaffairs of China.
After the web pages are obtainedfrom the servers, the web pages which are toosmall, for example smaller than 5k bytes, are ex-cluded from the page set.
Then for each page in thepage set, the HTML source of the web page isparsed and the noise such as the advertisement isexcluded from the raw web page.
The second is thecandidate parallel page pair preparation step.
Theweb pages are paired according to the URL simi-larity and some other features of the web pages.The third is the candidate parallel page pair evalua-tion step which is the key section of the PCMSsystem.
Both web page structure and content areconsidered in this step.
The candidate parallel pagepairs prepared by the second step are first filteredby the structure-based criterion and then evaluatedby the content-based criterion.
We develop novelstrategies for the third step and describe it in detailin the following sections.3 Candidate Parallel Pair PreparationThe web spider can fetch a great many web pagesin different languages from certain hosts.
Usuallythe language of a web page can be identified bysome feature strings of the URL.
For example, theURLs of many English web pages contain stringssuch as e, en, eng and english which are calledlanguage identification strings.
The language iden-tification strings are usually attached to the otherpart of the URL with symbols such as ??
?, ?/?
and?_?.
The number of web pages downloaded by theweb spider is very large, so the pairs produced willbe a huge amount if we treat each web page in lan-guage A and each in language B as a candidate pair,which will then make the third step of the systemcomputationally infeasible.
Parallel web pagesusually have similar URLs.
For example, the webpage P1 in Chinese and P2 in English are parallel:Web page P1  URL2:www.fmprc.gov.cn/chn/wjdt/wshd/t358904.htmWeb page P2  URL:www.fmprc.gov.cn/eng/wjdt/wshd/t358905.htmWe can see that the URL of page P1 and the URLof page P2 share most of the strings such aswww.fmprc.gov.cn, wjdt, and wshd.
In some othercases, the similarity between the URLs of parallelweb pages may be not that direct but should still beobvious.In PCMS, a novel strategy is designed to meas-ure the URL similarity of the candidate web pagepair.
Before the URL similarity evaluation process,the language identification strings of the URLsshould be substituted by a uniform string whichseldom occurs in normal URLs.
For example, thelanguage identification strings such as en, eng, cnand chn are substituted by the string *** whichseldom occurs in normal URLs.
For example, theabove page P1 after the URL substitution processis www.fmprc.gov.cn/***/wjdt/wshd/t358904.htm.After the substitution process, the similarity of the2 The protocol string HTTP is omitted here.848new URLs is evaluated.
For evaluating the URLsimilarity of web page PA in language A and webpage PB in language B, the following criterions areconsidered.Criterion 1: URL length difference.It can be found that the length of the URLs ofparallel web pages is usually similar.
The length ofthe URL here refers to the number of directories inthe URL string.
For example, the URL of theabove web page P1 contains the directories ***3,wjdt and wshd, and then the URL length of P1 is 3.If two web pages PA and PB are parallel, the URLlength of PA and PB should be similar.
The URLlength difference criterion is define as( ) ( )( , )=( ) ( )len PA len PBURL diff PA PBlen PA len PB?+        (1)where URL diff(PA,PB) is the URL length differ-ence between PA and PB, len(PA) is the URLlength of page PA and len(PB) is the URL lengthof PB.
The value of URL length difference is be-tween 0 and 1, and the more similar two URLs are,the smaller the value is.
If the URL lengths of PAand PB are the same, the URL length differencebetween PA and PB should be 0.Criterion 2: URL directory similarity.Besides URL length, URL directory informationis also considered in the candidate page pair prepa-ration step.
It can be observed that the URLs ofparallel web pages usually share similar directorystructure which can be represented by the commondirectories in the URLs.
For example, the aboveweb page P1 and web page P2 share the directories***, wjdt and wshd.
To measure the URL directorysimilarity of the web page PA and the web page PB,a criterion is defined as2* ( , )( , )( ) ( )comdir PA PBURL dirsim PA PBlen PA len PB= +   (2)where URL dirsim(PA,PB) is the URL directorysimilarity of page PA and page PB, comdir(PA,PB)is the number of common directories PA and PBshare, len(PA) and len(PB) are the same as above.The value of URL directory similarity is between 0and 1.
The bigger the value is, the more similar thetwo pages are.
When two web pages have the sameURLs, the URL directory similarity should be 1.3 The language identification strings of the URL have beensubstituted by the uniform string ***.Criterion 3: Similarity of some other features.Some other features such as the file size of theweb page and the time the page created can help tofilter the nonparallel web page pairs with low cost.Based on the combination of the above criteri-ons, the web page pairs of which the similarity ex-cesses certain threshold are treated as the candidateparallel pairs, which are then to be processed bythe following evaluation step.4 Candidate Parallel Pair  EvaluationIt is the key section of the system to evaluate thecandidate parallel web page pairs.
Though content-based methods are what the candidate parallel pagepair evaluation step mainly relies on, the structureof the web pages is also considered in the evalua-tion step of the PCMS system for it can help tofilter out some page pairs that are obviously non-parallel at low cost.
The candidate parallel pagepair set is first filtered by the structure-based strat-egy which is similar with the one in (Resnik, 1998),and we consider some more structure relative fea-tures such as color and font.
A loose constrain isset on the structure similarity criterion, because itis merely a preliminary filter step to reduce thescale of the problem.After the structure-based filter stage, the pagepairs left are then to be evaluated by the content-based stage which is the key of the candidate paral-lel page pair evaluation step.
The performance ofthe PCMS system relies mainly on this module.
Inthe content-based stage, the candidate page pairsare first filtered based on some content related fea-tures and then the page pairs left are evaluated bythe BVSM model.4.1 The Content Related Feature-based FilterIn the first part of the content-based strategy, somecontent related features such as time stamp andnavigation text are combined to construct a pre-liminary step to filter the candidate page pair setand reduce the number of pairs to be processed byBVSM.
Many web pages contain time stampswhich identify the time when the web pages wereconstructed.
If two pages are parallel, the timewhen they are constructed should be similar.
Navi-gation text usually demonstrates the type informa-tion of the content of the web page.
For example, aweb page with anchor text Home-News-China isprobable about the news which happened in China.849So if two web pages are parallel, their navigationtext if there is any should be similar.
To evaluatethe similarity of two pieces of navigation text intwo languages, we need a bilingual navigation textwordlist.
For each layer, for example news, in onenavigation text, if its translation ??
xin-wen ap-pears in the other navigation text, the similaritycount will be added by 1.
The similarity betweentwo pieces of navigation text is defined as2 *NC NEcountsimilaritylayer layer= +                  (3)where layerNC demonstrates the layer count of thenavigation text of the Chinese web page andlayerNE is that of the English web page.
For exam-ple, the layerNE of the navigation text Home-News-China is 3.
If the similarity gotten from formula (3)is below certain threshold, the corresponding webpage pair will not be considered as parallel.4.2 The BVSM ModelIn the second part of the content-based strategy,BVSM is implemented to evaluate the similarity ofcandidate parallel page pairs.
VSM is an importanttechnology for representing text and has been ap-plied to some other research areas.
But this modelis usually applicable to monolingual text process-ing problem.
For bilingual text processing, weshould design a new strategy to use VSM for thenew problem.
A bilingual dictionary is a must forimporting VSM to bilingual problem.
We give abrief introduction to the bilingual dictionary weuse first.
Each entry line of the dictionary consistsof three parts.
The first part is the English word,the middle is a list separator and the last is the cor-responding Chinese word.
A sample of the diction-ary can be found in Appendix A.
For each Englishword, there may be some Chinese words serving asits translations.
The same conclusion can be gottenfor each Chinese word.Based on the bilingual dictionary, we can repre-sent the Chinese and English web pages as vectorsrespectively.
First, we give every English word inthe bilingual dictionary a unique ID according toits position in the dictionary beginning from 1.
Forexample, the ID of the English word in the firstrow is 1, and the ID of the next new English wordin the dictionary is 2 and so forth.
For convenience,we denote the Chinese web page as C and the Eng-lish web page as E in each web page pair.
We thencan represent each web page as follows.For E, we extract all the words from the webpage and stem them first.
The length of the vectorof E equals the length of the bilingual dictionarywhich is the number of the different English wordsin the dictionary.
For each dimension of the vector,for example k, we assign the number of the wordswith ID k occurring in all the words extracted to it.If certain words in the bilingual dictionary neveroccur in E, we assign the value 0 to the corre-sponding dimensions which are identified by theIDs of those words.
If some words in E haven?toccurred in the dictionary, we just ignore them.For C, the procedure to construct a vector ismore complex.
In the PCMS system, the proce-dures of word segmentation and POS for Chineseare finished in a single run.
The length of the vec-tor of C equals to that of the vector of E. As hasbeen pointed out, one Chinese word may corre-spond to more than one English word in the bilin-gual dictionary.
For example in Appendix A, theChinese word ??
fang-qi corresponds to aban-don, depart and leave.
In the vector of E, each di-mension strands for the count of a single Englishword with a unique ID occurring in the Englishtext.
In order to construct a vector for C which iscomparable to the vector of E, a single Chineseword in C should contribute to more than one di-mension of the vector of C. In order to distributethe count/weight of each Chinese word to the cor-responding dimensions of the vector of C, we firstcount the number of each entry which is a Chineseword with a specific POS, for example (??
,Verb), in C. Then for each entry, we distribute itscount to all the dimensions identified by the IDs ofthe English words which the Chinese word in theentry corresponds to.
The count distribution proc-ess is detailed below.If the Chinese word in the entry Cent is a con-tent word which we call here to mean that it carriesthe main content of a language including noun,verb and adjective, we will divide the correspond-ing English words in the bilingual dictionary intofour separate classes: the words that haven?t ap-peared in the English text (C4), the words that havethe same POS with the entry (C1), the words thathave similar POS with the entry (C2) and the otherwords (C3).
For convenience, the count of the entryCent in C is denoted as N1234.
If the capacity of C4is 0 which means there are no words belonging tothe class C4, then N1234 is all devoted to the words850in C1, C2 and C3, else a certain proportion, for ex-ample 10%, of N1234 is assigned to all the words inC4 averagely and the left of N1234 is assigned to thewords in C1, C2 and C3.
Similarly, we denote thecount left to words in C1, C2 and C3 as N123, andthen if the capacity of C3 is 0, N123 is all denoted tothe words in C1 and C2, else a certain proportion ofN123 is denoted to all the words in C3 averagely andthe left of N123 is devoted to the words in C1 and C2.For words in C1 and C2, the count distributionstrategy is similar.If the Chinese word in the entry Cent is not acontent word, we classify the corresponding Eng-lish words into two classes: the words that haven?tappeared in the English text (C2) and the otherwords (C1).
The same method as above is used todistribute the count.4.3 Similarity Evaluation CriterionsBased on the above strategies, the two web pagescan be represented by their vectors respectively.Then the next step is to calculate the similarity ofthe two vectors, which is also the similarity of thetwo web pages.
Some comments were given ondifferent similarity measures such as Euclidencedistance, Inner product, Cosine coefficient, Dicecoefficient and Jaccard coefficient in (Chen et al,2004).
It was suggested that for a pair of docu-ments to be considered parallel, we could expectthat these two documents contained the two corre-sponding sets of translated terms and each corre-sponding term was carrying an identical contextualsignificance in each of the document respectively.For that, the Jaccard coefficient is more appropri-ate for the calculation of the similarity score.While in our experiments, we find that Cosine co-efficient is more suitable.
Because the size of thebilingual dictionary is small and we exclude all thewords which are not in the dictionary from the textof the web pages when we construct the vectors, itis possible that the counterparts of some words inone web page can not be found in its correspond-ing web page.
Though we have done some smoothwork in the BVSM model, there is still a gap be-tween the assumptions by Chen et al (2004) andthe situation of our problem.
The second reason wethink is that the translation process by human isalmost sentence to sentence, but not word to word.As a result, it is normal that there are no words inone language serving as the translation for certainwords in the other language.
Based on the Cosinecoefficient criterion, the similarity between twovectors which are represented by (x1, x2, x3, ?, xp)and (y1, y2, y3, ?, yp) respectively is12 21 1*cospi iip pi ii ix yinecoefficientx y== ==??
?
(4)The similarity measure is between 0 and 1, andthe bigger the value is, the more similar the twovectors are.
We set a certain threshold for the simi-larity measure based on our experience in PCMS.5 Experiments and DiscussionIn this section, we practice the experiments de-signed to evaluate the performance of the PCMSsystem and compare it with similar work earlier.5.1 Evaluation StandardsPrecision and recall are two widely used evalua-tion standards in the area of natural language proc-essing.
In our experiments, we define precision asthe proportion of page pairs in parallel translationto the total page pairs produced by the PCMS sys-tem.
Recall is defined as the proportion of pagepairs in parallel translation produced by the PCMSsystem to the total parallel page pairs in the wholeweb page set.The number of pairs in parallel translationshould be calculated from the human annotatedpage pairs.
We ask a native Chinese speaker whohas a fluent English tongue to annotate these pagepairs.
To calculate the recall, we need to know thenumber of parallel pairs in the web page set.
It ishard to count out the actual number of the parallelpairs in the page set because the web page set isreally too big.
We build a relatively smaller test setto test the recall of the PCMS system.5.2 Parallel Corpus ConstructionIn order to construct a high quality parallel corpusin the experiments, the website of the ministry offoreign affairs of China (http://www.fmprc.gov.cn)is chosen to be crawled.
After the rough observa-tion, it is found that a huge number of web pagesfetched are in parallel translation.
We get a webpage set consisting of 40262 Chinese web pagesand 17324 English web pages by the tool WebZip.After the preprocess step, the web pages left are to851be examined by the core modules of PCMS.
Ittakes nearly 3 hours to finish the task on a PC witha P4 2.0G CPU and 512MB RAM, which is fasterthan the early systems.
To evaluate the precision ofthe system, we randomly choose a subset of theweb page pairs which PCMS gives as output, andget a web page set of 500 web page pairs.
Wemanually annotate it and find that there are 479truly parallel page pairs among them.
Then theprecision is about 96%.
We analysis the 21 non-parallel pairs the PCMS system gives and find thatmost of these web pages are short web pages con-taining limited text.
To obtain the recall of thePCMS system, we construct a test page set consist-ing of 350 parallel page pairs and 150 nonparallelpage pairs.
The ratio 350/150 is decided based onrough estimation of the whole page set.
The PCMSsystem is examined on the test set, which produces337 page pairs which are truly parallel, thus a re-call of 96%.
We analysis the 13 parallel pageswhich are recognized as nonparallel by the PCMSsystem and find that most of them are short webpages.
We then come to the conclusion that thedrawback that BVSM is weak at representing shorttext leads to the system?s failure to identify theparallel web page pairs.
Though the model hassome drawbacks, the overall result consisting ofperformance and time complexity is much betterthan the former similar work.6 ConclusionThe paper presents a web-based parallel corpusconstruction system PCMS.
The system firstfetches all the web pages from specific hosts, andthen prepares candidate parallel web page pairsbased on features such as URL and web page filesize.
At last the candidate pairs are examined by atwo-stage similarity evaluation process in whichthe structure and content of the web pages are bothconsidered.
To enhance the performance of thePCMS system, we design some novel strategies forthe implementation of these steps.
The results ofthe experiments show the high performance andlow time complexity of the PCMS system.
All inall, the PCMS system is a reliable and effectivetool for mining parallel corpora from the web.ReferencesBrown, P. F., Cocke, J., Pietra, S. D., Pietra, V. J. D.,Jelinek, F., Lafferty, J. D., et al (1990).
A statisticalapproach to machine translation.
Computational Lin-guistics, 16(2), 79-85.Chen, J., Chau, R., and Yeh, C. H. (2004).
Discoveringparallel text from the World Wide Web.
In Proc.
ofDMWI-04, Dunedin, New Zealand.Landauer, T. K. and Littman, M. L. (1990).
Fully auto-matic cross-language document retrieval using latentsemantic indexing.
In Proc.
of the 6th Annual Con-ference of the UW Centre for the New Oxford EnglishDictionary and Text Research, Waterloo, Ontario.LDC.
(1999).
Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC) homepage.
http://www.ldc.upenn.eduMa, X. and Liberman, M. Y.
(1999).
BITS: A methodfor bilingual text search over the web.
In Proc.
of theMachine Translation Summit VII.Oard, D. W. (1997).
Cross-language text retrieval re-search in the USA.
In Proc.
of the 3rd ERCIMDELOS Workshop, Zurich, Switzerland.Resnik, P. (1998).
Parallel strands: A preliminary inves-tigation into mining the web for bilingual text.
InProc.
of AMTA-98, Langhorne, PA.Resnik, P. and Smith, N. A.
(2003).
The web as a paral-lel corpus.
Computational Linguistics, 29(3), 349-380.Zhang, Y., Wu, K., Gao, J., and Vines, P. (2006).Automatic acquisition of Chinese-English parallelcorpus from the web.
In Proceedings of ECIR-06,London.Appendix A: A Sample Bilingual Dictionaryabandon --- ?
?abandon --- ?
?abandon --- ?
?abandon --- ?
?abc --- ?
?abc --- ?
?abc --- ?
?abc --- ???
?depart --- ?
?depart --- ?
?depart --- ?
?depart --- ???
?leave --- ?
?leave --- ?
?leave --- ?
?leave --- ???
?852
