How to Add a New Language on the NLP Map:Building Resources and Tools for Languages with Scarce ResourcesRada MihalceaUniversity of North Texasrada@cs.unt.eduVivi NastaseEML Research gGmbHVivi.Nastase@eml-r.villa-bosch.deAbstractThose of us whose mother tongue is not English orare curious about applications involving other lan-guages, often find ourselves in the situation wherethe tools we require are not available.
Accordingto recent studies there are about 7200 different lan-guages spoken worldwide ?
without including vari-ations or dialects ?
out of which very few have auto-matic language processing tools and machine read-able resources.In this tutorial we will show how we can takeadvantage of lessons learned from frequently stud-ied and used languages in NLP, and of the wealthof information and collaborative efforts mediated bythe World Wide Web.
We structure the presentationaround two major themes: mono-lingual and cross-lingual approaches.
Within the mono-lingual area,we show how to quickly assemble a corpus for sta-tistical processing, how to obtain a semantic networkusing on-line resources ?
in particular Wikipedia ?and how to obtain automatically annotated corporafor a variety of applications.
The cross-lingual halfof the tutorial shows how to build upon NLP meth-ods and resources for other languages, and adaptthem for a new language.
We will review automaticconstruction of parallel corpora, projecting annota-tions from one side of the parallel corpus to theother, building language models, and finally we willlook at how all these can come together in higher-end applications such as machine translation andcross-language information retrieval.BiographiesRada Mihalcea is an Assistant Professor of Com-puter Science at the University of North Texas.
Herresearch interests are in lexical semantics, multi-lingual natural language processing, minimally su-pervised natural language learning, and graph-basedalgorithms for natural language processing.
Sheserves on the editorial board of the Journal of Com-putational Linguistics, the Journal of Language Re-sources and Evaluations, the Journal of Natural Lan-guage Engineering, the Journal of Research in Lan-guage in Computation, and the recently establishedJournal of Interesting Negative Results in NaturalLanguage Processing and Machine Learning.Vivi Nastase is a post-doctoral fellow at EML Re-search gGmbH, Heidelberg, Germany.
Her researchinterests are in lexical semantics, semantic relations,knowledge extraction, multi-document summariza-tion, graph-based algorithms for natural languageprocessing, multilingual natural language process-ing.
She is a co-founder of the Journal of Interest-ing Negative Results in Natural Language Process-ing and Machine Learning.938
