Paraphrasing depending on Bilingual Context Toward Generalization ofTranslation KnowledgeYoung-Sook HwangETRI161, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon305-700, KOREAyshwang7@etri.re.krYoungKil KimETRI161, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon305-700, KOREAkimyk@etri.re.krSangKyu ParkETRI161, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon305-700, KOREAparksk@etri.re.krAbstractThis study presents a method to automat-ically acquire paraphrases using bilingualcorpora, which utilizes the bilingual de-pendency relations obtained by projectinga monolingual dependency parse onto theother language sentence based on statisti-cal alignment techniques.
Since the para-phrasing method is capable of clearly disam-biguating the sense of an original phrase us-ing the bilingual context of dependency re-lation, it would be possible to obtain inter-changeable paraphrases under a given con-text.
Also, we provide an advanced methodto acquire generalized translation knowl-edge using the extracted paraphrases.
Weapplied the method to acquire the gener-alized translation knowledge for Korean-English translation.
Through experimentswith parallel corpora of a Korean and En-glish language pairs, we show that our para-phrasing method effectively extracts para-phrases with high precision, 94.3% and84.6% respectively for Korean and English,and the translation knowledge extractedfrom the bilingual corpora could be general-ized successfully using the paraphrases withthe 12.5% compression ratio.1 IntroductionApproaches based on bilingual corpora are promis-ing for the automatic acquisition of translationknowledge.
Phrase-based SMT(Statistical MachineTranslation) models have advanced the state of theart in machine translation by expanding the basicunit of translation from words to phrases, which al-lows the local reordering of words and translationof multi-word expressions(Chiang, 2007) (Koehnet al, 2003) (Och and Ney, 2004).However phrase-based SMT techniques sufferfrom data sparseness problems, that is; unreliabletranslation probabilities of low frequency phrasesand low coverage in that many phrases encounteredat run-time are not observed in the training data.An alternative for these problems is to utilize para-phrases.
An unknown phrase can be replaced withits paraphrase that is already known.
Moreover, wecan smooth the phrase translation probability usingthe class of paraphrases.On the other hand, EBMT or PBMT systemsmight translate a given sentence fast and robustlygeared by sentence translation patterns or general-ized transfer rules.
Since it costs too much to con-struct the translation knowledge, they suffer fromthe problem of knowledge acquisition bottleneck.In this study, we present a method of automat-ically extracting paraphrases from bilingual cor-pora.
Furthermore, we introduce a new methodfor acquiring the generalized translation knowledge.The translation knowledge is a kind of verb sub-categorization pattern composed of bilingual depen-dency relations.
We obtain the generalized trans-lation knowledge by grouping the equivalent con-stituent phrases.
The task of identifying the phrasesequivalent to each other is defined as paraphrasing.Our paraphrasing method utilizes bilingual cor-pora and alignment techniques in SMT.
Unlike pre-327vious approaches which identify paraphrases usinga phrase in another language as a pivot without con-text information (Bannard et al, 2005), or applythe distributional hypothesis to paths in dependencytrees for inferring paraphrasing rules from monolin-gual corpora(Lin et al, 2001), we take the bilingualcontext of a bilingual dependency relation into ac-count for disambiguating the sense of paraphrases.First, we create a large inventory of bilingual de-pendency relations and equate the pairs of depen-dency relations that are aligned with a single depen-dency relation in the other language as paraphraseddependency relations.
Then, we extract the phrasessharing the same head (or modifier) phrase amongthe paraphrased dependency relations aligned with aunique dependency relation in the other language.We regard them as conceptually equivalent para-phrases.
This work is based on the assumption ofsimilar meaning when multiple phrases map onto asingle foreign language phrase that is the converse ofthe assumption made in the word sense disambigua-tion work(Diab and Resnik, 2002).
The two-stepparaphrasing method allows us to increase the pre-cision of the paraphrases by constraining the para-phrase candidates under the bilingual contexts of de-pendency relations.In order to systematically acquire the generalizedtranslation knowledge, our method includes follow-ing steps:?
Derive a bilingually parsed sentence throughprojecting the source language parse onto theword/phrase aligned target sentence.?
Extract bilingual dependency relations from thebilingual dependency parses.?
Acquire paraphrases by exploiting the ex-tracted bilingual dependency relations.?
Generalize the bilingual dependency relationsby substituting the phrases with their para-phrase class.2 Extracting Translation PatternsIn this section, we introduce a method to acquiretranslation knowledge like a bilingual dependencypattern using bilingual corpus.
The bilingual depen-dency pattern is defined as an asymmetric binary re-lationship between a phrase called head and anotherphrase called modifier which are paired with theircorresponding translations in the other language.
Inorder to acquire the bilingual dependency relations,we do bilingual dependency parsing based on theword/phrase alignments and extract bilingual depen-dency relations by navigating the dependency parsetree.2.1 Bilingual Dependency Parsing based onWord/Phrase AlignmentGiven an input sentence pair, a source language sen-tence is dependency parsed in a base phrase leveland a target language sentence is chunked by a shal-low parser.
During the dependency parsing and thechunking, each sentence is also segmented into mor-phemes and we regard a morpheme as a word.We make word alignments through the learningof IBM models by using the GIZA++ toolkit(Ochand Ney, 2000): we learn the translation modeltoward IBM model 4, initiating translation itera-tions from IBM model 1 with intermediate HMMmodel iterations.
For improving the word align-ment, we use the word-classes that are trained from amonolingual corpus using the srilm toolkit(Stolcke,2002).
Then, we do phrase alignments based on theword alignments, which are consistent with the basephrase boundaries as well as the word alignments as(Hwang et al, 2007) did.
A phrase is defined as aword sequence that is covered by a base phrase se-quence, not by a single sub-tree in a syntactic parsetree.After the word and the phrase alignments, weobtain bilingual dependency parses by sharing thedependency relations of a monolingual dependencyparser among the aligned phrases.
The bilingual de-pendency parsing is similar to the technique of bilin-gual parsing in a word level described in (Hwa et al,2005)(Quirk et al, 2005).
Our bilingual parsing in aphrase level has an advantage of being capable of re-ducing not only the parsing complexity but also theerrors caused by structural differences between twolanguages, such like a Korean and English pairs1.For bilingual parsing between Korean and En-glish, we use a Korean dependency parse on the1Since we regard that a phrase in a source language sentenceis aligned with a target phrase if at least one word in a sourcephrase is aligned with the words in a target phrase, we robustlyproject the source phrases onto the target phrases.328Figure 1: Illustration of Acquiring Bilingual Dependency Relationssource language side as a pivot.
Figure 1 shows anillustration of bilingual dependency parsing betweenKorean and English based on the word/phrase align-ments.
The dependency structure induced on the tar-get language side is in some sense isomorphic to thestructure of the source language.2.2 Extracting Bilingual Dependency PatternsStarting from the head phrase of a given source lan-guage sentence, we extract bilingual dependency re-lations by traversing a bilingual dependency parsetree.
A dependency relation is a binary relation be-tween a head and modifier phrases.
Each phrase ispaired with its corresponding translation.
For effec-tively using them during the decoding or the sen-tence generation, we attach an additional tag for in-dicating the order(e.g.
Reverse or Forward) of targetlanguage phrases to the bilingual dependency rela-tion.
A dependency pattern refers to the bilingualdependency relation with the phrase order tag.Figure 1(c) shows some examples of bilingual de-pendency patterns extracted from the bilingual de-pendency parse tree in Figure 1(b).
In the exam-ple, Korean phrase ?sinae ga neun?
aligned withthe English phrase ?for downtown?
modifies thephrase ?bus siganpyo?
aligned with the English ?thebus timetable?.
Through traversing the dependencyparse trees, we acquire the bilingual dependencypattern <sinae ga neun:for downtown, bus sigan-pyo:the bus timetable;Reverse>.If we apply the bilingual dependency pattern<sinae ga neun:for downtown, bus siganpyo:thebus timetable;Reverse> for machine translation ofa given Korean expression ?sinae ga neun bus sigan-pyo?, we might generate an English phrase ?the bustimetable for downtown?
by reversing the order ofEnglish head and modifier phrase corresponding tothe Korean phrase ?sinae ga neun bus siganpyo?.3 Acquisition of ParaphrasesParaphrasing is based on the assumption that ifmultiple Korean phrases are equivalent to eachother, they can be translated into a single Englishphrase.
But, the reverse is not always true.
Thatis, even though a single phrase in a source lan-guage sentence maps onto multiple phrases in aforeign language sentence, the phrases might notbe paraphrases.
For example, two different Ko-rean phrases, ?gyedan/{stairs,steps}?
and ?baldong-jak/steps?, might be translated into a single Englishphrase ?the steps?.
But since the meaning of twoKorean phrases is not equivalent to each other, theKorean phrases cannot be paraphrases.
This impliesthat the sense of candidate paraphrases should bedisambiguated depending on a given context.For extracting the paraphrases of which sense isdisambiguated under a given context, we give astrong constraint on paraphrases with bilingual con-text evidence of dependency relation denoted as R(x,y) :329Figure 2: Illustration of Paraphrasing based on Bilingual Dependency RelationsR(ei, ej) ?
R(kai , kaj ) and R(ei?, ej?)
?
R(kai?
, kaj? )
(1)?
R(kai , kaj ) ?
R(kai?
, kaj?
)where the relation of R(ei, ej) = R(ei?, ej?)
with thecondition of ei = ei?
and ej = ej?
.R(ei, ej) ?
R(kai , kaj ) and R(kai , kaj ) ?
R(kai?
, kaj? )
(2)?
kai ?
kai?
iff kaj ?
kaj?For the identification of paraphrases, we equate thedifferent dependency relations aligned with a uniquedependency relation in the other language and regardthem as a set of paraphrased dependency relations(see eq.(1)).
Under the constraint of the paraphraseddependency relations, we again try to acquire para-phrases at a phrase level.
That is, we extract thephrases sharing the same head/modifier phrase inparaphrased dependency relations as a phrase para-phrase under a given bilingual dependency context(see eq.
(2)).Figure 2 shows some examples of paraphrased de-pendency relations and paraphrases.
In Figure 2 (a),the Korean dependency relations <bus siganpyo,sinae ga neun>,<bus seukejul, sinae ga neun> and<bus seukejul, sinae banghyang> mapped onto theEnglish relation<the bus timetable, for downtown>are the paraphrases.
Under the condition of para-phrased dependency relations, the phrases, ?busseukejul?
and ?bus siganpyo?
modified by the samephrase ?sinae ga neun?
are extracted as paraphrases.In the same way, the set of modifier phrases,p1={?sinae banghyang?, ?sinae ga neun?}
is ac-quired as a paraphrase set.
For English, we obtainthe set of paraphrases, p3={?the bus timetable?, ?thebus schedule?}
as we did for Korean.The induced set of paraphrases can be appliedto dependency relations to extend the set throughhigher inference as in Figure 2(b).
We replace aphrase, which is a part of a bilingual dependencyrelation and a member of a paraphrase set with therepresentative phrase of the paraphrase set.
And werepeatedly apply the paraphrase extraction algorithmto the bilingual dependency relations of which a partis replaced with the previously acquired paraphraseset.
Finally, we can acquire new paraphrase setssuch as p4 and p5.4 Generalizing Translation PatternsThe acquired paraphrases can be utilized for variousNLP applications.
In this work, we focus on mak-ing use of the paraphrases to generalize the trans-lation knowledge of bilingual dependency patterns.By generalizing the bilingual dependency patterns,we aim at increasing the coverage of them withoutany over-generation.The algorithm for generalizing bilingual depen-dency patterns is very simple.
The main ideais to replace the constituent phrases of a givenbilingual dependency pattern with their paraphraseclasses.
The paraphrase classes are extracted un-der the condition of a given bilingual context asfollows: < PP (km, dpi) : PP (em, dpi), PP (kh, dpi) :PP (eh, dpi);Order := Reverse|Forward > where the330Figure 3: Illustration of Generalizing Bilingual Dependency Patternsfunction, PP (x, y) returns the identifier of the para-phrase set of a given phrase x, which is constrainedon a given context y = dpi; km and kh denote amodifier and a head in Korean, respectively and emand eh denote the English phrases.Figure 3 shows an illustration of generalizing thetranslation patterns using the previously acquiredparaphrase classes.
In the pattern dpi, the Englishmodifier ?for downtown?
uses the phrase itself be-cause there is no paraphrase class.
But, the othersare generalized by using their paraphrase classes.5 ExperimentsWe used the Basic Travel Expression Corpus(BTEC)(Takezawa et al, 2002), a collection of con-versational travel phrases for Korean and English.We used 152,175 sentences in parallel corpus fortraining and 10,146 sentences for test.
The Koreansentences were automatically dependency parsed byin-house dependency parser and the English sen-tences were chunked by in-house shallow parser.Through experiments, we investigated the accu-racy of the acquired paraphrases, and the compres-sion ratio of the generalized translation patternscompared to the raw translation patterns.
Moreover,we show the strength of utilizing bilingual contextinformation in the acquisition of paraphrases withthe comparison to the previous approach.5.1 Accuracy of the Acquired ParaphrasesThrough the alignments and bilingual dependencyparsing, we extracted 66,664 bilingual dependencyrelations.
24.15% of Korean phrases and 21.8% ofEnglish phrases are paraphrased with more than twophrases under a given bilingual dependency context.The statistics of Korean and English paraphrasesbased on bilingual dependency relations is shown inTable 1.Especially, the paraphrasing ratio of the Koreanhead phrases, 28.63% is higher than that of theEnglish heads,22.6%.
Many of the Korean headphrases are verb phrases that reflects the honorificand inflectional characteristics of Korean language.We might expect that the problems caused by vari-ous honorific expressions can be resolved with theparaphrases such like {?ga r geoyeyo?, ?ga gess-seupnida?
}.For evaluating the accuracy of the acquired para-phrases, we randomly selected 100 sets of para-phrases for Korean and English phrase respectively.Because the accuracy of paraphrases can vary de-pending on context, we selected the dependency re-lations that contain a phrase in a paraphrase set fromthe test set.
And we generated the dependency re-lations by substituting the phrase by the other para-phrases.
Accuracy was judged by two native speak-ers for each language.
We measured the percentageof completely interchangeable paraphrases under agiven bilingual dependency context.Table 1 shows the performance of the paraphrasesdepending on their bilingual context.
The accuracyof Korean and English paraphrases are 94.6% and84.6% respectively.
Korean paraphrases are moreaccurate than English paraphrases.
Especially thequality of Korean head paraphrases(97.5%) is veryhigh.Since we used a simple base-phrase chunker forEnglish, where most base phrases except for nounphrases are composed of single words, most of En-glish phrases aligned to Korean phrases were depen-dent on the word alignments.
Big structural differ-ence between Korean and English made the wordalignments more difficult.
These alignment resultsmight influence not only the paraphrasing ratio but331Korean Relation English RelationKor-head Kor-mod Eng-head Eng-mod# of relations 66,664 66,664# of uniq relations 59,633 58,18736,157 33,088# of uniq phrases 17,867 22,699 13,623 24,0006,156 5,390# of paraphrase set 4,474 2,890 3,425 3,16924.15 21.8Paraphrasing Ratio(%) 28.63 17.7 22.6 19.494.6 84.6Accuracy(%) 97.5 91.2 86 82.3Paraphrasing ratio(%) (Bannard et al, 2005) 44.4 37.4accuracy (%) (Bannard et al, 2005) 71.4 76.2Table 1: Statistics of the extracted bilingual dependency relations and paraphrasesalso the performance of the paraphrases.Nevertheless, our paraphrasing method outper-formed previous approaches which do not use bilin-gual dependency context.
Because the paraphrasingmethods are different, we could not compare themdirectly.
But, we tried to make similar experimentalcondition on the same BTEC corpus by implement-ing the previous approach(Bannard et al, 2005).When evaluating the previous approach, the accu-racy of (Bannard et al, 2005) was 71.4% and 76.2%for Korean and English paraphrases, respectively.The results show that our paraphrasing method canacquire the paraphrases of higher quality than (Ban-nard et al, 2005) while the paraphrasing ratio islower than (Bannard et al, 2005).5.2 Power of Generalization by ParaphrasesFinally, we investigated how many the ex-tracted bilingual dependency patterns are general-ized.
Among 66,664 bilingual dependency patterns,20,968 patterns were generalized into 12,631 uniquegeneralized patterns by applying the extracted para-phrases2.
As a result, the 66,664 bilingual depen-dency patterns were compressed into 58,324 gener-alized patterns with 12.5% compression ratio.Furthermore, we examined how many bilingualdependency patterns can be generated by the gener-alized patterns in reverse.
When replacing the gen-eralized phrases with all of their paraphrases in bothEnglish and Korean sides, 235,640 bilingual transla-tion patterns are generated.
These are 3.53 times ofthe amount of the original translation patterns.Even we have some errors in the paraphrase2A paraphrase set is composed of more than two paraphrasessets, these results might contribute to increasing thecoverage of the translation knowledge for machinetranslation.6 Related Work and DiscussionThe proposed paraphrasing method can be an exten-sion of the work done by (Bannard et al, 2005).They introduced the method for extracting para-phrases: Using the automatic alignment methodfrom phrase-based SMT, they showed that para-phrases in one language can be identified using aphrase in another language as a pivot.
Furthermore,they defined a paraphrase probability to rank the ex-tracted paraphrases and suggested a method to refineit by taking contextual information into account i.e.including simple language model.Our study for paraphrasing is similar to their workbut we take the bilingual dependency context intoaccount for disambiguating the sense of a phrase.Limiting the candidate paraphrases to be the samesense as the original phrase is critical to the per-formance of paraphrases.
Our approach providesthe solution to clearly disambiguate the sense of aphrase using bilingual context information.
This isthe strong point of our approach different from theprevious approaches.Furthermore, in this work, we presented a methodto acquire somewhat generalized machine transla-tion knowledge of bilingual dependency patterns.There are few research of the acquisition of trans-lation knowledge such like verb sub-categorizationpatterns (Fung et al, 2004).
(Fung et al, 2004)tried to construct a bilingual semantic network,BiFrameNet to enhance statistical and transfer-332based machine translation systems.
They inducedthe mapping between the English lexical entries inFrameNet to Chinese word senses in HowNet.
Ittakes such an advantage of generalized bilingualframe semantics.
But, they have problems of appro-priate mapping from lexical entries to word sensesand obtaining correct example sentences.In our approach to acquire the generalized bilin-gual translation patterns, a bilingual dependencypattern is one of the decomposed bilingual verb sub-categorization patterns.
It is possible to constructmore complicated bilingual verb sub-categorizationpattern by applying a kind of unification operation.In that case, we have the advantage of automati-cally disambiguating the word/phrase senses via thealignment techniques contrary to (Fung et al, 2004).7 ConclusionIn this paper,we proposed a method to extract para-phrases using bilingual corpora, which utilizes thebilingual dependency relations obtained by project-ing a monolingual dependency parse onto the otherlanguage sentence based on statistical alignmenttechniques.
The advantage of our paraphrasingmethod is that it can produce paraphrases of highquality by clearly disambiguating the sense of anoriginal phrase.Furthermore, we suggested an advanced methodto acquire generalized translation knowledge usingthe extracted paraphrases.
With the bilingual depen-dency patterns generalized by the paraphrases, weaim at reducing the translation ambiguity, but alsoincreasing the coverage of the translation knowl-edge.
The experimental results showed that our gen-eralization method is effective to achieve the goals.In future, we will utilize the paraphrases basedon bilingual dependency relations for increasing theamount of bilingual corpus and for smoothing thephrase probability table in statistical machine trans-lation.
Moreover, we plan to apply the acquiredtranslation patterns, which are generalized by para-phrases, to various machine translation systems.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported by the IT R&D program ofMIC/IITA, Domain Customization Machine Trans-lation Technology Development for Korean, Chi-nese, and English.ReferencesColin Bannard and Chris Callison Burch.
2005.
Para-phrasing with Bilingual Parallel Corpora, Proc.
of the43rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Peter F. Brown, Stephen A. Della Pietra, Vincent J. DellaPietra, and R. L. Mercer.
1993.
The mathematics ofstatistical machine translation: Parameter estimation,Computational Linguistics, 19(2):263-311.David Chiang.
2007.
Hierarchical phrase-based trans-lation, Computational Linguistics, 33(2).M.
Diab and P. Resnik.
An Unsupervised Method forWord Sense Tagging Using Parallel Corpora, Proc.
ofthe 40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Atsushi Fujita, Kentaro Inui, and Yuji Matsumoto.
2005.Exploiting Lexical Conceptual Structure for Para-phrase Generation, Proc.
of the 2nd InternationalJoint Conference on Natural Language Processing(IJCNLP).Pascale Fung and Benfeng Chen 2004 BiFrameNet:Bilingual Frame Semantics Resource Construction byCross-lingual Inductio, Proc.
of the 20th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,(COLING2004),Geneva, SwitzerlandRebeca Hwa, Philip Resnik, Amy Weinberg, ClaraCabezas and Okan Kolak.
2005.
Bootstrappingparsers via syntactic projection across parallel texts, Natural Language Engineering , Vol 11(3), Pages:311 - 325Young-Sook Hwang, Andrew Finch and Yutaka Sasaki.2007.
Improving statistical machine translation usingshallow linguistic knowledge, Computer Speech andLanguage , Vol.
21(2).Philipp Koehn, Franz Josef Och, and Daniel Marcu.2003 Statistical Phrase-Based Translation, Proc.of the Human Language Technology Confer-ence(HLT/NAACL)D. Lin and P. Pantel 2001.
DIRT-Discovery of Infer-ence Rules from Text, ACM SIGKDD Conference onKnowledge Discovery and Data Mining, pages 323-328.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2000.
Improved Sta-tistical Alignment Models , Proc.
of the 38th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pp.
440-447, Hongkong, China.333Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2004.
The alignmenttemplate approach to statistical machine translation ,Computational Linguistics, Vol.
30(4), Pages 417-449.C.
Quirk, A. Menezes, and C. Cherry.
2005.
De-pendency treelet translation: Syntactically informedphrasal SMT, Proc.
of the 43rd Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, pp.
271-279.S.
Stolcke 2002 SRILM - an extensible language model-ing toolkit, Proc.
of International Conference of Spo-ken Language Processing.Toshiyuki Takezawa, Eiichiro Sumita, Fumiaki Sugaya,Hirofumi Yamamoto, and Seiichi Yamamoto.
2002.Toward a broad-coverage bilingual corpus for speechtranslation of travel conversations in the real world,Proc.
of LREC 2002, pp.
147-152, Spain.334
