Constructing Taxonomy of Numerative Classifiers for Asian LanguagesKiyoaki ShiraiJAISTkshirai@jaist.ac.jpTakenobu TokunagaTokyo Inst.
of Tech.take@cl.cs.titech.ac.jpChu-Ren HuangAcademia Sinicachurenhuang@gmail.comShu-Kai HsiehNational Taiwan Normal Univ.shukai@gmail.comTzu-Yi KuoAcademia Sinicaivykuo@gate.sinica.edu.twVirach SornlertlamvanichTCL, NICTvirach@tcllab.orgThatsanee CharoenpornTCL, NICTthatsanee@tcllab.orgAbstractNumerative classifiers are ubiquitous inmany Asian languages.
This paper pro-poses a method to construct a taxonomyof numerative classifiers based on a noun-classifier agreement database.
The taxon-omy defines superordinate-subordinate rela-tion among numerative classifiers and rep-resents the relations in tree structures.
Theexperiments to construct taxonomies wereconducted for evaluation by using data fromthree different languages: Chinese, Japaneseand Thai.
We found that our method waspromising for Chinese and Japanese, but in-appropriate for Thai.
It confirms that therereally is no hierarchy among Thai classifiers.1 IntroductionMany Asian languages do not mark grammaticalnumbers (singular/plural) in noun form, but use nu-merative classifiers together with numerals insteadwhen describing the number of nouns.
Numerativeclassifiers (hereafter ?classifiers?)
are used with alimited group of nouns, in particular material nouns.In English, for example: ?three pieces of paper?.
InAsian languages these classifiers are ubiquitous andused with common nouns.
Therefore the number ofclassifiers is much larger than in Western languages.An agreement between nouns and classifiers is alsonecessary, i.e., a certain noun specifies possible clas-sifiers.
The agreement is determined based on var-ious aspects of a noun, such as its meaning, shape,pragmatic aspect and so on.This paper proposes a method to automati-cally construct a taxonomy of numerative classi-fiers for Asian languages.
The taxonomy definessuperordinate-subordinate relations between classi-fiers.
For instance, the Japanese classifier ??
(to?
)?is used for counting big animals such as elephantsand tigers, while ??
(hiki)?
is used for all animals.Since ???
can be considered more general than ??
?, ???
is the superordinate classifier of ??
?, rep-resented as ???
 ???
in this paper.
The taxon-omy represents such superordinate-subordinate rela-tions between classifiers in the form of a tree struc-ture.
A taxonomy of classifiers would be fundamen-tal knowledge for natural language processing.
Inaddition, it will be useful for language learners, be-cause learning usage of classifiers is rather difficult,especially for Western language speakers.We evaluate the proposed method by using thedata of three Asian languages: Chinese, Japaneseand Thai.2 Noun-classifier agreement databaseFirst, let us introduce usages of classifiers in Asianlanguages.
In the following examples, ?CL?
standsfor classifier.?
Chinese: yi-ju(CL)dian-hua(telephone)?
?
?
a telephone?
Japanese: inu(dog)2 hiki(CL)?
?
?
2 dogs?
Thai: nakrian(student)3 khon(CL)?
?
?
3 students397As mentioned earlier, the agreement between nounsand classifiers is observed.
For instance, theJapanese classifier ?hiki?
in the above exampleagrees with only animals.
The agreement is alsofound in Chinese and Thai.The proposed method to construct a classifier tax-onomy is based on agreement between nouns andclassifiers.
First we prepare a collection of pairs(n, c) of a noun n and a classifier c which agreeswith n for a language.
The statistics of our Chinese,Japanese, and Thai database are summarized in Ta-ble 1.Table 1: Noun-classifier agreement databaseChinese Japanese ThaiNo.
of (n,c) pairs 28,202 9,582 9,618No.
of nouns (type) 10,250 4,624 8,224No.
of CLs (type) 205 331 608The Japanese database was built by extractingnoun-classifier pairs from a dictionary (Iida, 2004)which enumerates nouns and their correspondingclassifiers.
The Chinese database was derived froma dictionary (Huang et al, 1997).
The Thai databaseconsists of a mixture of two kinds of noun-classifierpairs: 8,024 nouns and their corresponding classi-fiers from a dictionary of a machine translation sys-tem (CICC, 1995) and 200 from a corpus.
The pairsfrom the corpus were manually checked for their va-lidity.3 Proposed Method3.1 Extracting superordinate-subordinaterelations of classifiersWe extracted superordinate-subordinate classifierpairs based on inclusive relations of sets of nounsagreeing with those classifiers.
Suppose that Nk isa set of nouns that agrees with a classifier ck.
If Nisubsumes Nj (Ni ?
Nj), we can estimate that cisubsumes cj (ci  cj).
For instance, in our Japanesedatabase, the classifier ??
(ten)?
agrees with shopssuch as ?drug store?, ?kiosk?
and ?restaurant?, andthese nouns also agree with ??
(ken)?, since ???
isa classifier which agrees with any kind of building.Thus, we can estimate the relation ???
 ??
?.Given a certain classifier cj , ci satisfying the fol-lowing two conditions (1) and (2) is considered as aNjNiFigure 1: Relation of sets of nouns agreeing withclassifierssuperordinate classifier of cj .|Ni| > |Nj | (1)IR(ci, cj) ?
Tirwhere IR(ci, cj)def=|Ni?Nj||Nj|(2)Condition (1) requires that a superordinate classifieragrees with more nouns than a subordinate classifier.IR(ci, cj) is an inclusion ratio representing to whatextent nouns in Nj are also included in Ni (the ratioof the light gray area to the area of the small circlein Figure 1).Condition (2) means that if IR(ci, cj) is greaterthan a certain threshold Tir, we estimate asuperordinate-subordinate relation between ci andcj .
The basic idea is that superordinate-subordinaterelations are extracted when Nj is a proper subsetof Ni, i.e.
IR(ci, cj) = 1, but this is too strict.
Inorder to extract more relations, we loosen this condi-tion such that relations are extracted when IR(ci, cj)is large enough.
If we set Tir lower, more relationscan be acquired, but they may be less reliable.Table 2: Extraction of superordinate-subordinate re-lationsChinese Japanese ThaiTir0.7 0.6 0.6No.
of extracted relations 251 322 239No.
of CLs not in 36 76 395the extracted relations (18%) (23%) (61%)Table 2 shows the results of our experiments toextract superordinate-subordinate relations of classi-fiers.
The threshold Tirwas determined in an ad hocmanner for each language.
The numbers of extractedsuperordinate-subordinate relations are shown in thesecond row in the table.
Manual inspection of thesampled relations revealed that many reasonable re-lations were extracted.
The objective evaluation ofthese extracted relations will be discussed in 4.2.398The third row in Table 2 indicates the numbers ofclassifiers which were not included in the extractedsuperordinate-subordinate relations with its ratio tothe total number of classifiers in the database inparentheses.
We found that no relation is extractedfor a large number of Thai classifiers.3.2 Constructing structureThe structure of a taxonomy is constructed basedon a set of superordinate-subordinate relations be-tween classifiers.
Currently we adopt a very naiveapproach to construct structures, i.e., starting fromthe most superordinate classifiers as roots, we ex-tend trees downward to less general classifiers byusing the extracted superordinate-subordinate rela-tions.
Note that since there is more than one classi-fier that does not have any superordinate classifiers,we will have a set of trees rather than a single tree.When constructing structures, redundant relationsare ignored in order to make the structures as conciseas possible.
A relation is considered redundant if therelation can be inferred by using other relations andtransitivity of the relations.
The formal definition ofredundant relations is given below:ca  cb is redundant iff ?cm : ca  cm, cm  cbStatistics of constructed structures for each lan-guage are shown in Table 3.
More than 50 iso-lated structures (trees) were obtained for Chineseand Japanese, while more than 100 for Thai.
We ob-tained several large structures, the largest containing45, 85 and 23 classifiers for Chinese, Japanese andThai, respectively.
As indicated in the fifth row inTable 3, however, many structures consisting of only2 classifiers were also constructed.Table 3: Construction of structuresChinese Japanese ThaiNo.
of structures 52 54 102No.
of CLs in a structureAverage 4.9 6.3 3.3Maximum 45 85 23Max.
depth of structures 4 3 3No.
of structures with 2 CLs 18 24 544 DiscussionIn this section, we will discuss the results of ourexperiments.
First 4.1 discusses appropriateness ofour method for the three languages.
Then we eval-uate our method in more detail.
The evaluation ofextracted superordinate-subordinate relations is de-scribed in 4.2, and the evaluation of structures in 4.3.4.1 Comparison of different languagesAccording to the results of our experiments, theproposed method seems promising for Chinese andJapanese, but not for Thai.
From the Thai data,no relation was obtained for about 60% of classi-fiers (Table 2), and many small fragmented struc-tures were created (Table 3).This is because of the characteristic that nounsand classifiers are strongly coupled in Thai, i.e.,many classifiers agree with only one noun.
In ourThai database, 252 (41.5%) classifiers agree withonly one noun.
This means that the overlap betweentwo noun sets Ni and Nj can be quite small, makingthe inclusion ratio IR(ci, cj) very small.
Out basicidea is that we can extract superordinate-subordinaterelations between two classifiers when the overlap oftheir corresponding noun sets is large.
However, thisassumption does not hold in Thai classifiers.
Theabove facts suggest that there seems to be no hierar-chical taxonomy of classifiers in Thai.4.2 Evaluation of extracted relations4.2.1 Analysis of Nouns in Nj \ NiAs explained in 3.1, our method extracts a relationci  cj even when Ni does not completely subsumeNj .
We analysed nouns in the relative complementof Ni in Nj (Nj \Ni), i.e., the dark gray area in Fig-ure 1.
The relation ci  cj implies that all nounswhich are countable with a subordinate classifier cjare also countable with its superordinate classifier ci,but there is no guarantee of this for nouns in Nj \Ni,since we loosened the condition as in (2) by intro-ducing a threshold.To see to what extent nouns in Nj \ Ni agreewith ci as well, we manually verified the agreementof nouns in Nj \ Ni and ci for all extracted rela-tions ci  cj .
The verification was done by nativespeakers of each language.
Results of the valida-tion are summarized in Table 4.
For Japanese andChinese, multiple judges verified the results.
Whenjudgments conflicted, we decided the final decisionby a discussion of two judges for Japanese, and bymajority voting for Chinese.
The 4th and 5th rows399in Table 4 show the agreement of judgments.
The?Agreement ratio?
is the ratio of cases that judg-ments agree.
Since three judges verified nouns forChinese, we show the average of the agreement ra-tios for two judges out of the three.
The agreementratio and Cohen?s ?
is relatively high for Japanese,but not for Chinese.
We found many uncertain casesfor Chinese nouns.
For example, ??
(wei)?
is a clas-sifier used when counting people with honorific per-spective.
However, judgement if ???
can modifynouns such as ?political prisoner?
or ?local villain?is rather uncertain.Table 4: Analysis of nouns in Nj \ NiChinese Japanese ThaiNo.
of nouns in Nj\Ni1,650 579 43No.
of nouns countable 1,195 241 24with cias well 72% 42% 56%No.
of judges 3 2 1Agreement ratio 0.677 0.936 ?Cohen?s ?
0.484 0.868 ?Table 4 reveals that a considerable number ofnouns in Nj \ Ni are actually countable with ci,meaning that our databases do not include noun-classifier agreement exhaustively.4.2.2 Reliability of relations ??Based on the analysis in 4.2.1, we evaluate ex-tracted superordinate-subordinate relations.
We de-fine the reliability R of the relation ci  cj asR(ci  cj) =|Ni ?
Nj |+ |NCj,i||Nj |, (3)where, NCj,i is a subset of Nj \ Ni consisting ofnouns which are manually judged to agree with ci.We can consider that the more strictly this statementholds, the more reliable the extracted relations willbe.Figure 2 shows the relations between the thresh-old Tirand both the number of extracted relationsand their reliability.
The horizontal axis indicatesthe threshold Tirin (2).
The bar charts indicate thenumber of extracted relations, while the line graphsindicate the averages of reliability of all extracted re-lations.
Of course, if we set Tirlower, we can extractmore relations at the cost of their reliability.
How-ever, even when Tiris set to the lowest value, theaverages of reliability are relatively high, i.e.
0.98(Chinese), 0.91 (Japanese) and 0.99 (Thai).
Thuswe can conclude that the extracted superordinate-subordinate relations are reliable enough.4.3 Evaluation of structuresAs in ordinary ontologies, we will assume that prop-erties of superordinate classifiers can be inherited totheir subordinate classifiers.
In other words, a clas-sifier taxonomy suggests transitivity of agreementwith nouns over superordinate-subordinate relationsasc1 c2?
c2 c3?
c1 c3.In order to evaluate the structures of our taxonomy,we verify the validity of transitivity.First, we extracted all pairs of classifiers havingan ancestor-descendant relation from our classifiertaxonomy.
Hereafter we denote ancestor-descendantpairs of classifiers as (ca, cd), where ca is an ances-tor and cd an descendant.
The path from ca to cd onthe taxonomy can be represented asc0(= ca)  c1  ...  cn(= cd).
(4)We denote a superordinate-subordinate relation de-rived by transitivity as?, such as c0? cn.
Amongall ancestor-descendant relations, we extracted oneswith a path length of more than one, or n > 1in (4).
Then we compare R(ca? cd), the re-liability of a relation derived by transitivity, withR(ci  ci+1) (0 ?
i < n), the reliability of di-rect relations in the path from ca to cd.
If these arecomparable, we can conclude that transitivity in thetaxonomy is valid.Table 5 shows the results of the analysis of transi-tivity.
As indicated in the column ?all?
in Table 5, 78and 86 ancestor-descendant pairs (ca, cd) were ex-tracted from the Chinese and Japanese classifier tax-onomy, respectively.
In contrast, only 6 pairs wereextracted from the Thai taxonomy, since each struc-ture of the Thai taxonomy is rather small as we al-ready discussed with Table 3.
Thus we have omit-ted further analysis of Thai.
The extracted ancestor-descendant pairs of classifiers are then classified intothree cases, (A), (B) and (C).
Their numbers areshown in the last three rows in Table 5, where miniand maxi denote the minimum and maximum of re-liability among all direct relations R(ci  ci+1) inthe path from ca to cd.400Chinese Japanese Thai0501001502002503003500.90.920.940.960.9811.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 irT# of Rel.
Ave. of R0501001502002503003500.90.920.940.960.9811.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 irT# of Rel.
Ave. of R0501001502002503003500.90.920.940.960.9811.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 irT# of Rel.
Ave. of RFigure 2: Reliability of extracted superordinate-subordinate relationsTable 5: Verification of transitivityChinese Japaneseall direct indirect all direct indirectNo.
of (ca, cd) 78 58 20 86 55 31Average of R(ca?cd) 0.88 0.98 0.61 0.77 0.93 0.48(A) mini> R(ca?cd) 16 (21%) 4 (7%) 12 (60%) 24 (28%) 3 (5%) 21 (68%)(B) mini?
R(ca?cd) < maxi39 (50%) 34 (59%) 5 (25%) 27 (31%) 24 (44%) 3 (9%)(C) maxi?
R(ca?cd) 23 (29%) 20 (34%) 3 (15%) 35 (41%) 28 (51%) 7 (23%)In case (A), reliability of a relation derived bytransitivity, R(ca? cd), is less than that of any di-rect relations, R(ci  ci+1).
In case (B), reliabilityof a transitive relation is comparable with that of di-rect relations, i.e.
R(ca? cd) is greater or equal tomini and less than maxi.
In case (C), the transitiverelation is more reliable than direct relations.The average of the reliability of ca? cd is rela-tively high, 0.88 for Chinese and 0.77 for Japanese.We also found that more than 70% of derived rela-tions (case (B) and case (C)) are comparable to orgreater than direct relations.
The above facts indi-cate transitivity on our structural taxonomy is validto some degree.From a different point of view, we divided pairsof (ca, cd) into two other cases, ?direct?
and ?indi-rect?
as shown in the columns of Table 5.
The ?di-rect?
case includes the relations which are also ex-tracted by our method.
Note that such relations arediscarded as redundant ones.
On the other hand, the?indirect?
case includes the relations which can notbe extracted from the database but only inferred byusing transitivity on the taxonomy.
That is, they aretruly new relations.
In order to calculate reliabilityof ?indirect?
cases, we performed additional manualvalidation of nouns in Nd\Na.However, the average of R(ca? cd) in ?in-direct?
cases is not so high for both Chinese andJapanese, as a large amount of pairs are classi-fied into case (A).
Thus it is not effective to infernew superordinate-subordinate relations by transi-tivity.
Since we currently only adopted a very naivemethod to construct a classifier taxonomy, more so-phisticated methods should be explored in order toprevent inferring irrelevant relations.5 Related WorkBond (2000) proposed a method to choose an appro-priate classifier for a noun by referring its seman-tic class.
This method is implemented in a sentencegeneration module of a machine translation system.Similar attempts to generate both Japanese and Ko-rean classifiers were also reported (Paik and Bond,2001).
Bender and Siegel (2004) implemented aHPSG that handles several intricate structures in-cluding Japanese classifiers.
Matsumoto (1993)reported his close analysis of Japanese classi-fiers based on prototype semantics.
Sornlertlam-vanich (1994) presented an algorithm for selectingan adequate classifier for a noun by using a cor-pus.
Their research can be regarded as a method toconstruct a noun-classifier agreement database au-401tomatically from corpora.
We used databases de-rived from dictionaries except for a small numberof noun-classifier pairs in Thai, because we believedictionaries provide more reliable and stable infor-mation than corpora, and in addition they were avail-able and on hand.
Note that we are not concernedwith frequencies of noun-classifier coocurrence inthis study.
Huang (1998) proposed a method toconstruct a noun taxonomy based on noun-classifieragreement that is very similar to ours, but aims atdeveloping a taxonomy for nouns rather than one forclassifiers.
There has not been very much work onbuilding resources concerning noun-classifier agree-ment.
To our knowledge, this is the first attempt toconstruct a classifier taxonomy.6 ConclusionThis paper proposed a method to construct a tax-onomy of numerative classifiers based on a noun-classifier agreement database.
First, superordinate-subordinate relations of two classifiers are extractedby measuring the overlap of two sets of nouns agree-ing with each classifier.
Then these relations areused as building blocks to build a taxonomy oftree structures.
We conducted experiments to buildclassifier taxonomies for three languages: Chinese,Japanese and Thai.
The effectiveness of our methodwas evaluated by measuring reliability of extractedrelations, and verifying validity of transitivity in thetaxonomy.
We found that extracted relations are re-liable, and the transitivity in the taxonomy relativelyvalid.
Relations inferred by transitivity, however, areless reliable than those directly derived from noun-classifier agreement.Future work includes investigating a way to en-large classifier taxonomies.
Currently, not all clas-sifiers are included in our taxonomy, and it con-sists of a set of fragmented structures.
A more so-phisticated method to build a large taxonomy in-cluding more classifiers should be examined.
Ourmethod should also be refined in order to makesuperordinate-subordinate relations inferred by thetransitivity more reliable.
We are now investigat-ing a stepwise method to construct taxonomies thatprefers more reliable relations, i.e.
an initial tax-onomy is built with a small number of highly reli-able relations, and is then expanded with less reli-able ones.AcknowledgmentThis research was carried out through financial sup-port provided under the NEDO International JointResearch Grant Program (NEDO Grant).ReferencesEmily M. Bender and Melanie Siegel.
2004.
Imple-menting the syntax of Japanese numeral classifiers.
InProceedings of the the First International Joint Con-ference on Natural Language Processing, pages 398?405.Francis Bond and Kyonghee Paik.
2000.
Reusing an on-tology to generate numeral classifiers.
In Proceedingsof the COLING, pages 90?96.CICC.
1995.
CICC Thai basic dictionary.
(developed byCenter of the International Cooperation for Computer-ization).Chu-Ren Huang, Keh-Jian Chen, and Chin-Hsiung Lai,editors.
1997.
Mandarin Daily News Dictionary ofMeasure Words.
Mandarin Daily News Publisher.Chu-Ren Huang, Keh-jiann Chen, and Zhao-ming Gao.1998.
Noun class extraction from a corpus-based col-location dictionary: An integration of computationaland qualitative approaches.
In Quantitative and Com-putational Studies of Chinese Linguistics, pages 339?352.Asako Iida.
2004.
Kazoekata no Ziten (Dictionary forcounting things).
Sho?gakukan.
(in Japanese).Yo Matsumoto.
1993.
The Japanese numeral classifiers:A study of semantic categories and lexical organiza-tion.
Linguistics, 31:667?713.Kyonghee Paik and Francis Bond.
2001.
Multilin-gual generation of numeral classifiers using a commonontology.
In Proceedings of the 19th InternationalConference on Computer Processing of Oriental Lan-guages (ICCPOL), pages 141?147.Virach Sornlertlamvanich, Wantanee Pantachat, andSurapant Meknavin.
1994.
Classifier assignment bycorpus-based approach.
In Proceedings of the COL-ING, pages 556?561.402
