Development of Bengali Named Entity Tagged Corpus and its Use inNER SystemsAsif EkbalDepartment of Computer Science andEngineering, Jadavpur UniversityKolkata-700032, Indiaasif.ekbal@gmail.comSivaji BandyopadhyayDepartment of Computer Science andEngineering, Jadavpur UniversityKolkata-700032, Indiasivaji_cse_ju@yahoo.comAbstractThe rapid development of language toolsusing machine learning techniques for lesscomputerized languages requires appropri-ately tagged corpus.
A Bengali news cor-pus has been developed from the web ar-chive of a widely read Bengali newspaper.A web crawler retrieves the web pages inHyper Text Markup Language (HTML)format from the news archive.
At present,the corpus contains approximately 34 mil-lion wordforms.
The date, location, re-porter and agency tags present in the webpages have been automatically named en-tity (NE) tagged.
A portion of this partiallyNE tagged corpus has been manually anno-tated with the sixteen NE tags with the helpof Sanchay Editor1, a text editor for Indianlanguages.
This NE tagged corpus contains150K wordforms.
Additionally, 30K word-forms have been manually annotated withthe twelve NE tags as part of the IJCNLP-08 NER Shared Task for South and SouthEast Asian Languages 2 .
A table drivensemi-automatic NE tag conversion routinehas been developed in order to convert thesixteen-NE tagged corpus to the twelve-NEtagged corpus.
The 150K NE tagged cor-pus has been used to develop Named EntityRecognition (NER) system in Bengali us-ing pattern directed shallow parsing ap-proach, Hidden Markov Model (HMM),Maximum Entropy (ME) Model, Condi-1 sourceforge.net/project/nlp-sanchay2 http://ltrc.iiit.ac.in/ner-ssea-08tional Random Field (CRF) and SupportVector Machine (SVM).
Experimental re-sults of the 10-fold cross validation testhave demonstrated that the SVM basedNER system performs the best with anoverall F-Score of 91.8%.1 IntroductionThe mode of language technology work has beenchanged dramatically since the last few years withthe web being used as a data source in a widerange of research activities.
The web is anarchic,and its use is not in the familiar territory of compu-tational linguistics.
The web walked into the ACLmeetings started in 1999.
The use of the web as acorpus for teaching and research on language tech-nology has been proposed a number of times(Rundel, 2000; Fletcher, 2001; Robb, 2003;Fletcher, 2003).
There is a long history of creatinga standard for western language resources.
Thehuman language technology (HLT) society inEurope has been particularly zealous for the stan-dardization, making a series of attempts such asEAGLES3, PROLE/SIMPLE (Lenci et al, 2000),ISLE/MILE (Calzolari et al, 2003; Bertagna et al,2004) and more recently multilingual lexical data-base generation from parallel texts in 20 Europeanlanguages (Giguet and Luquet, 2006).
On the otherhand, in spite of having great linguistic and cul-tural diversities, Asian language resources havereceived much less attention than their westerncounterparts.
A new project (Takenobou et al,2006) has been started to create a common stan-dard for Asian language resources.
They have ex-tended an existing description framework, the3 http://www.ilc.cnr.it/Eagles96/home.htmlThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 20081MILE (Bertagna et al, 2004), to describe severallexical entries of Japanese, Chinese and Thai.
Indiais a multilingual country with the enormous cul-tural diversities.
(Bharati et al, 2001) reports onefforts to create lexical resources such as transferlexicon and grammar from English to several In-dian languages and dependency tree bank of anno-tated corpora for several Indian languages.
Corpusdevelopment work from web can be found in (Ek-bal and Bandyopadhyay, 2007d) for Bengali.Named Entity Recognition (NER) is one of thecore components in most Information Extraction(IE) and Text Mining systems.
During the last fewyears, the probabilistic machine learning methodshave become state of the art for NER (Bikel et al,1999; Chieu and Ng, 2002) and for field extraction(McCallum et al, 2000).
Most prominently, Hid-den Markov Models (HMMs) have been used forthe information extraction task (Bikel et al, 1999).Beside HMM, there are other systems based onSupport Vector Machine (Sun et al, 2003) andNa?ve Bayes (De Sitter and Daelemans, 2003).Maximum Entropy (ME) conditional models likeME Markov models (McCallum et al, 2000) andConditional Random Fields (CRFs) (Lafferty et al,2001) were reported to outperform the generativeHMM models on several IE tasks.The existing works in the area of NER aremostly in non-Indian languages.
There has been avery little work in the area of NER in Indian lan-guages (ILs).
In ILs, particularly in Bengali, thework in NER can be found in (Ekbal andBandyopadhyay, 2007a; Ekbal and Bandyop-adhyay, 2007b; Ekbal et al, 2007c).
Other thanBengali, the work on NER can be found in (Li andMcCallum, 2003) for Hindi.Newspaper is a huge source of readily availabledocuments.
In the present work, the corpus hasbeen developed from the web archive of a verywell known and widely read Bengali newspaper.Bengali is the seventh popular language in theworld, second in India and the national language ofBangladesh.
A code conversion routine has beenwritten that converts the proprietary codes used inthe newspaper into the standard Indian Script Codefor Information Interchange (ISCII) form, whichcan be processed for various tasks.
A separate codeconversion routine has been developed for convert-ing ISCII codes to UTF-8 codes.
A portion of thiscorpus has been manually annotated with the six-teen NE tags as described in Table 3.
Another por-tion of the corpus has been manually annotatedwith the twelve NE tags as part of the IJCNLP-08NER Shared Task for South and South East AsianLanguages.
A table driven semi-automatic NE tagconversion routine has been developed in order toconvert this corpus to a form tagged with thetwelve NE tags.
The NE tagged corpus has beenused to develop Named Entity Recognition (NER)system in Bengali using pattern directed shallowparsing approach, HMM, ME, CRF and SVMframeworks.A number of detailed experiments have beenconducted to identify the best set of features forNER in Bengali.
The ME, CRF and SVM basedNER models make use of the language independ-ent as well as language dependent features.
Thelanguage independent features could be applicablefor NER in other Indian languages also.
The sys-tem has demonstrated the highest F-Score value of91.8% with the SVM framework.
One possiblereason behind its best performance may be theflexibility of the SVM framework to handle themorphologically rich Indian languages.2 Development of the Named EntityTagged Bengali News Corpus2.1 Language Resource AcquisitionA web crawler has been developed that retrievesthe web pages in Hyper Text Markup Language(HTML) format from the news archive of a leadingBengali newspaper within a range of datesprovided as input.
The crawler generates theUniversal Resource Locator (URL) address for theindex (first) page of any particular date.
The indexpage contains actual news page links and links tosome other pages (e.g., Advertisement, TVschedule, Tender, Comics and Weather etc.)
thatdo not contribute to the corpus generation.
TheHTML files that contain news documents areidentified and the rest of the HTML files are notconsidered further.2.2 Language Resource CreationThe HTML files that contain news documents areidentified by the web crawler and require cleaningto extract the Bengali text to be stored in thecorpus along with relevant details.
The HTML fileis scanned from the beginning to look for tags like<fontFACE=BENGALI_FONT_NAME>...<font>,where the BENGALI_FONT_NAME is the nameThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 20082of one of the Bengali font faces as defined in thenews archive.
The Bengali text enclosed withinfont tags are retrieved and stored in the databaseafter appropriate tagging.
Pictures, captions andtables may exist anywhere within the actual news.Tables are integral part of the news item.
Thepictures, its captions and other HTML tags that arenot relevant to our text processing tasks arediscarded during the file cleaning.
The Bengalinews corpus has been developed in both ISCII andUTF-8 codes.
The tagged news corpus contains108,305 number of news documents with aboutfive (5) years (2001-2005) of news data collection.Some statistics about the tagged news corpus arepresented in Table 1.Total number of news documentsin the corpus108, 305Total number of sentences in thecorpus2, 822, 737Avgerage number of sentences ina document27Total number of wordforms inthe corpus33, 836, 736Avgerage number of wordformsin a document313Total number of distinctwordforms in the corpus467, 858Table 1.
Corpus Statistics2.3 Language Resource AnnotationThe Bengali news corpus collected from the web isannotated using a tagset that includes the type andsubtype of the news, title, date, reporter or agencyname, news location and the body of the news.
Apart of this corpus is then tagged with a tagset,consisting of sixteen NE tags and one non-NE tag.Also, a part of the corpus has been tagged with atagest of twelve NE tags4, defined for the IJCNLP-08 NER Shared Task for South and South EastAsian Languages.A news corpus, whether in Bengali or in anyother language, has different parts like title, date,reporter, location, body etc.
To identify these partsin a news corpus the tagset, described in Table 2,has been defined.
The reporter, agency, location,date, bd, day and ed tags help to recognize theperson name, organization name, location name4http://ltrc.iiit.ac.in/ner-ssea-08/index.cgi?topic=3and the various date expressions that appear in thefixed places of the newspaper.
These tags are notable to recognize the various NEs that appearwithin the actual news body.In order to identify NEs within the actual newsbody, we have defined a tagset consisting ofseventeen tags.
We have considered the major fourNE classes, namely ?Person name?, ?Locationname?, ?Organization name?
and ?Miscellaneousname?.
Miscellaneous names include the date,time, number, percentage and monetaryexpressions.
The four major NE classes are furtherdivided in order to properly denote eachcomponent of the multiword NEs.
The NE tagset isshown in Table 3 with the appropriate examples.We have also tagged a portion of the corpus aspart of the IJCNLP-08 NER Shared Task for Southand South East Asian Languages.
This tagset hastwelve different tags.
The underlying reason foradopting these tags was the necessity of a slightlyfiner tagset for various natural language processing(NLP) applications and particularly for machinetranslation.
The IJCNLP-08 NER shared tasktagset is shown in Table 4.One important aspect of IJCNLP-08 NERshared task was to annotate only the maximal NEsand not the structures of the entities.
For example,mahatma gandhi road is annotated as location andassigned the tag ?NEL?
even if  mahatma and gan-dhi are NE title person and person name, respec-tively, according to the IJCNLP-08 shared tasktagset.
These internal structures of the entities needto be identified during testing.
So, mahatma gan-dhi road will be tagged as mahatma/NETP gan-dhi/NEP road/NEL.
The structure of the taggedelement using the Shakti Standard Format (SSF)5will be as follows:1 (( NP <ne=NEL>1.1 (( NP <ne=NEP>1.1.1 (( NP  <ne=NETP>1.1.1.1 mahatma))1.1.2 gandhi))1.2 road))5http://shiva.iiit.ac.in/SPSAL 2007/ssf.htmlThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200832.4 Partially Tagged News Corpus Develop-mentA news document is stored in the corpus in XMLformat using the tagset, mentioned in Table 2.
Inthe HTML news file, the date is stored at first andis divided into three parts.
The first one is the dateaccording to Bengali calendar, second one is theday in Bengali and the last one is the date accord-ing to English calendar.
Both Bengali and Englishdates are stored in the form ?day month year?.A sequence of four Bengali digits separates theBengali date from the Bengali day.
The Englishdate starts with one/two digits in Bengali font.Bengali date, day and English date can be distin-guished by checking the appearance of the numer-als and these are tagged as <bd>, <day> and <ed>,respectively.
For e.g., 25 sraban 1412  budhbar  10august 2005 is tagged as shown in Table 5.Table 2.
News Corpus TagsetTag Meaning ExamplePER Single word person name sachin / PER, manmohan/PERLOC Single word location name jadavpur / LOC, delhi/LOCORG Single word organization name infosys / ORG, tifr/ORGMISC Single word miscellaneous name 100% / MISC, 100/MISCB-PERI-PERE-PERBeginning, Internal or the end ofa multiword person namesachin/ B-PER ramesh / I-PERtendulkar / E- PERB-LOCI-LOCE-LOCBeginning, Internal or the end ofa multiword location namemahatma/ B-LOC gandhi / I-LOC  road / E-LOCB-ORGI-ORGE-ORGBeginning, Internal or the end ofa multiword organization namebhaba / B-ORG atomic / I-ORGresearch / I-ORG centre / E-ORGB-MISCI-MISCE-MISCBeginning, Internal or the end ofa multiword miscellaneous name10 e / B-MISC   magh / I-MISC1402 / E-MISCNNE Words that are not named entities neta/NNE, bidhansabha/NNETable 3.
Named Entity TagsetTag Definition Tag Definition Tag Definitionheader Header of the newsdocumentsday Day body Body of the newsdocumenttitle Headline of the newsdocumented English date p Paragrapht1 1st headline of thetitlereporter Reporter name table Information in tabularformt22nd headline of thetitleagency Agencyproviding newstcTable columndateDate of the newsdocumentlocation News location tr Table rowbd Bengali dateThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 20084NE tag Meaning ExampleNEP Person name sachin ramesh  tendul-kar / NEPNEL Locationnamemahatma gandhi road /NELNEO Organizationnamebhaba atomicresearch   centre / NEONED Designation chairman/NED,sangsad/NEDNEA Abbreviation b a/NEA, c m d a/NEA,b j p/NEANEB Brand fanta/NEB,windows/NEBNETP Title-person sriman/NED, sree/NEDNETO Title-object american beauty/NETONEN Number 10/NEN, dash/NENNEM Measure tin din/NEM, panchkeji/NEMNETE Terms hidden markovmodel/NETENETI Time 10 e   magh   1402/NETITable 4.
IJCNLP-08 NER Shared Task TagsetOriginal date pattern Tagged date pattern<date>25 sraban 1412 <bd>25 sraban 1412</bd>budhbar <day>budhbar</day>10 august 2005 <ed>10 august 2005</ed></date>Table 5.
Example of a Tagged Date Pattern2.5 Named Entity Tagged CorpusDevelopmentThe partially NE tagged corpus contains 34million wordforms and are in both ISCII and UTF-8 forms.
A portion of this corpus, containing 150Kwordforms, has been manually annotated with thesixteen NE tags that are listed in Table 3.
Thecorpus has been annotated with the help ofSanchay Editor, a text editor for Indian languages.The detailed statistics of this NE-tagged corpus aregiven in Table 6.
The corpus is in SSF form,which has the following structure:<Story id=""><Sentence id="">1 biganni NNE2 newton PER3 .</Sentence id="">.</Story id="">Another portion of the partially NE taggedBengali news corpus has been manually annotatedas part of the IJCNLP-08 NER shared task withthe twelve NE tags, as listed in Table 4.
Theannotation process has been very difficult due tothe presence of a number of ambiguous NE tags.The potential ambiguous NE tags are: NED vsNETP, NEO vs NEB, NETE vs NETO, NETO vsNETP and NEN vs NEM.
For example, it isdifficult to decide whether ?Agriculture?
is?NETE?, and if no then whether ?Horticulture?
is?NETE?
or not.
In fact, this the most difficult classto identify.
This NE tagged corpus containsapproximately 30K wordforms.
Details statisticsof this tagged corpus are shown in Table 7.
ThisNE tagged corpus is in the following SSF form.<Story id=""><Sentence id="">1 (( NP <ne=NEP>1.1 (( NP <ne=NED>1.1.1 biganni))1.1.2 newton NEP))2 .</Sentence id=""></Story id="">NE Class Number ofwordformsNumber of dis-tinct wordformsPerson name 20, 455 15, 663Locationname11, 668    5, 579Organizationname963 867Miscellane-ous name11,554 3, 227Table 6.
Statistics of the 150K-tagged CorpusThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200852.6 Tag ConversionA tag conversion routine has been developed inorder to convert the sixteen-NE tagged corpus of150K wordforms to the corpus, tagged with theIJCNLP-08 twelve-NE tags.
This conversion is asemi-automatic process.
Some of our sixteen NEtags can be automatically mapped to some of theIJCNLP-08 shared task tags.
The tags that repre-sent person, location and organization names canbe directly mapped to the NEP, NEL and NEOtags, respectively.
Other IJCNLP-08 shared tasktags can be obtained with the help of gazetteer listsand simple heuristics.
In our earlier NER experi-ments, we have already developed a number ofgazetteer lists such as: lists of person, location andorganization names; list of prefix words (e.g., sree,sriman etc.)
that predict the left boundary of a per-son name; list of designation words (e.g., mantri,sangsad etc.)
that helps to identify person names.The lists of prefix and designation words are help-ful to find the NETP and NED tags.
The sixteen-NE tagged corpus is searched for the person nametags and the previous word is matched against thelists of prefix and designation words.
The previousword is tagged as NED or NETP if there is amatch with the lists of designation words and pre-fix words, respectively.
The NEN and NETI tagscan be obtained by looking at our miscellaneoustags and using some simple heuristics.
The NENtags can be simply obtained by checking whetherthe MISC tagged element consists of digits only.The lists of cardinal and ordinal numbers havebeen also kept to recognize NETI tags.
A list ofwords that denote the measurements (e.g., kilo-gram, taka, dollar etc.)
has been kept in order toget the NEM tag.
The lists of words, denoting thebrand names, title-objects and terms, have beenprepared to get the NEB, NETO and NETE tags.The NEA tags can be obtained with the help of agazetteer list and using some simple heuristics(whether the word contains the dot and there is nospace between the characters).
The mapping fromour NE tagset to the IJCNLP-08 NER shared tasktagset is shown in Table 8.3 Use of Language ResourcesThe NE tagged news corpus, developed in thiswork, has been used to develop the Named EntityRecognition (NER) systems in Bengali using pat-tern directed shallow parsing, HMM, ME, CRFand SVM frameworks.NE Class Number ofwordformsNumber of dis-tinct wordformsPerson name 5, 123 3, 201Locationname1, 675 1, 119Organizationname168 131Designation 231 102Abbreviation 32 21Brand 15 12Title-person 79 51Title-object 63 42Number 324 126Measure 54 31Time 337 212Terms 46 29Table 7.
Statistics of the 30K-tagged CorpusSixteen-NE tagset IJCNLP-08tagsetPER, LOC, ORG NEP, NEL,NEOB-PER, I-PER, E-PER NEPB-LOC, I-LOC, E-LOC NELB-ORG, I-ORG, E-ORG NEOMISC  NENB-MISC, I-MISC, E-MISC NETI, NEMBrand name gazetteer  NEBTitle-object gazetteer  NETOTerm gazetteer  NETEPerson prefix word + PER/B-PER, I-PER, E-PERNETPDesignation word +PER/B-PER, I-PER, E-PERNEDAbbreviation gazetteer +HeuristicsNEATable 8.
Tagset Mapping TableWe have considered the sixteen NE tags to de-velop these systems.
Named entity recognition inIndian Languages (ILs) in general and particularlyin Bengali is difficult and challenging as there isno concept of capitalization in ILs.The Bengali NER systems that use pattern di-rected shallow parsing approach can be found inThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 20086(Ekbal and Bandyopadhyay, 2007a) and (Ekbaland Bandyopadhyay, 2007b).
An HMM-basedBengali NER system can be found in (Ekbal andBandyopadhyay, 2007c).
These systems have beentrained and tested with the corpus tagged with thesixteen NE tags.A number of experiments have been conductedin order to find out the best feature set for NER inBengali using the ME, CRF and SVM frameworks.In all these experiments, we have used a number ofgazetteer lists such as: first names (72, 206 en-tries), middle names (1,491 entries) and sur names(5,288 entries) of persons; prefix (245 entries) anddesignation words (947 entries) that help to detectperson names; suffixes (45 and 23 entries) thathelp to identify person and location names; cluewords (94 entries) that help to detect organizationnames; location name (7, 870 entries) and organi-zation name (2,225 entries).
Apart from these gaz-etteer lists, we have used the prefix and suffix(may not be linguistically meaningful suf-fix/prefix) features, digit features, first word fea-ture and part of speech information of the wordsetc.
We have used the C++ based Maximum En-tropy package6, C++ based OpenNLP CRF++ pack-age7 and open source YamCha8 tool for ME basedNER, CRF based NER and SVM based NER, re-spectively.
For SVM based NER system, we haveused TinySVM 9  classifier, pair wise multi-classdecision method and the second-degree polynomialkernel function.
The brief descriptions of all themodels are given below:?A: Pattern directed shallow parsing approachwithout linguistic knowledge.
?B: Pattern directed shallow parsing approach withlinguistic knowledge.
?HMM based NER: Trigram model with additionalcontext dependency, NE suffix lists for handlingunknown words.
?ME based NER: Contextual window of size three(current, previous and the next word), prefix andsuffix of length upto three of the current word,POS information of the current word, NE informa-tion of the previous word (dynamic feature), dif-ferent digit features and the various gazetteer liststs.6http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/s0450736/software/maxent/maxent-20061005.tar.bz27 http://crfpp.sourceforge.net8 http://chasen.org/~taku/software/yamcha/9http://cl.aist-nara.ac.jp/taku-ku/software/TinySVM?CRF based NER: Contextual window of size five(current, previous two words and the next twowords), prefix and suffix of length upto three of thecurrent word, POS information of window three(current word, previous word and the next word),NE information of the previous word (dynamicfeature), different digit features and the variousgazetteer lists.
?SVM based NER: Contextual window of size six(current, previous three words and the next twowords), prefix and suffix of length upto three of thecurrent word, POS information of window three(current word, previous word and the next word),NE information of the previous two words (dy-namic feature), different digit features and the vari-ous gazetteer lists.Evaluation results of the 10-fold cross validationtest for all the models are presented in Table 9.Evaluation results clearly show that the SVMbased NER model outperforms other models due toit?s efficiency to handle the non-independent, di-verse and overlapping features of Bengali lan-guage.Model F-Score (in %)A 74.5B 77.9HMM 84.5ME 87.4CRF 90.7SVM 91.8Table 9.Results of 10-fold Cross Validation Test4 ConclusionIn this work we have developed a Bengali newscorpus of approximately 34 million wordformsfrom the web archive of a leading Bengali newspa-per.
The date, location, reporter and agency tagspresent in the web pages have been automaticallyNE tagged.
Around 150K wordforms of this par-tially NE tagged corpus has been manually anno-tated with the sixteen NE tags.
We have alsotagged around 30K wordforms with the twelve NEtags, defined for the IJCNLP-08 NER shared task.A tag conversion routine has also been developedin order to convert any sixteen-NE tagged corpusto the twelve-NE tagged corpus.
The sixteen-NEtagged corpus of 150K wordforms has been used toThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 20087develop the NER systems using various machine-learning approaches.This NE tagged corpus can be used for otherNLP research activities such as machinetranslation, information retrieval, cross-lingualevent tracking, automatic summarization etc.ReferencesBertagna, M. and A. Lenci, M. Monachini and N. Cal-zolari.
2004.
CotentInteroperability of Lexical Re-sources, Open Issues and ?MILE?
Perspectives, InProceedings of the LREC, 131-134.Bharthi, A., D.M.
Sharma, V. Chaitnya, A. P. Kulkarniand R. Sanghal.
2001.
LERIL: Collaborative Effortfor Creating Lexical Resources.
In Proceedings ofthe 6th NLP Pacific Rim Symposium Post-ConferenceWorkshop, Japan.Bikel, D. M., Schwartz, R., Weischedel, R. M. 1999.
AnAlgorithm that Learns What?s in a Name.
MachineLearning, 34, 211-231.Calzolari, N., F. Bertagna, A. Lenci and M. Monachni.2003.
Standards and best Practice for MiltilingualComputational Lexicons, MILE (the multilingualISLE lexical entry).
ISLE Deliverable D2.2 &3.2.Chieu, H. L., Tou Ng, H. 2002.
Named Entity Recogni-tion: A Maximum Entropy Approach Using GlobalInformation, In Proc.
of the 6th  Workshop on VeryLarge Corpora.De Sitter, A., Daelemans W. 2003.
Information Extrac-tion via Double Classification.
In Proeedings of In-ternational Workshop on Adaptive Text Extractionand Mining, Dubronik.Ekbal, Asif, and S. Bandyopadhyay.
2007a.
PatternBased Bootstrapping Method for Named Entity Rec-ognition.
In Proceedings of the 6th International Con-ference on Advances in Pattern Recognition, 2007,India, 349-355.Ekbal, Asif, and S. Bandyopadhyay.
2007b.
LexicalPattern Learning from Corpus Data for Named EntityRecognition.
In Proceedings of the 5th InternationalConference on Natural Language Processing(ICON), India, 123-128.Ekbal, Asif, Naskar, Sudip and S. Bandyopadhyay.2007c.
Named Entity Recognition and Transliterationin Bengali, Named Entities: Recognition,Classification and Use, Special Issue of LingvisticaeInvestigationes Journal, 30:1 (2007), 95-114.Ekbal, Asif, and S. Bandyopadhyay.
2007d.
A Web-based Bengali News Corpus for Named Entity Rec-ognition.
Language Resources and Evaluation Jour-nal (Accepted and to appear by December 2007).Fletcher, W. H. 2001.
Making the Web More Useful asSource for Linguistics Corpora.
In Ulla Conor andThomas A. Upton (eds.
), Applied corpus Linguistics:A Multidimensional Perspective, 191-205.Fletcher, W. H. 2003.
Concording the Web withKwiCFinder.
In Proceedings of the Third NorthAmerican Symposium on Corpus Linguistics andLanguage Teaching, Boston.Giguet, E., and P. Luquet.
2006.
Multilingual LexicalDatabase Generation from Parallel Texts in 20 Euro-pean Languages with Endogeneous Resources.
InProceedings of the COLING/ACL, Sydney, 271-278.Lafferty, J., McCallum, A., and Pereira, F. 2001.
Condi-tional Random Fields: Probabilistic Models for Seg-menting and Labeling Sequence Data, In Proceedingsof the 18th International Conference on MachineLearning, 282-289.Lenci, A., N. Bel, F. Busu, N. Calzolari, E. Gola, M.Monachini, A. Monachini, A. Ogonowski, I. Peters,W.
Peters, N. Ruimy, M. Villegas and A. Zampolli.2000.
SIMPLE: A general Framework for the Devel-opment of Multilingual Lexicons.
InternationalJournal of Lexicography, Special Issue, Dictionaries,Thesauri and Lexical-Semantic Relations, XIII(4):249-263.Li, Wei and Andrew McCallum.
2004.
Rapid Develop-ment of Hindi Named Entity Recognition UsingConditional Random Fields and Feature Inductions.ACM TALIP, Vol.
2(3), 290-294.McCallum, A., Freitag, D., Pereira, F. 2000.
MaximumEntropy Markov Models for Information Extractionand Segmentation.
In Proceedings of the 17th Inter-national Conference Machine Learning.Robb, T. 2003.
Google as a Corpus Tool?
ETJ Journal,4(1), Spring 2003.Rundell, M. 2000.
The Biggest Corpus of All.
Humanis-ing Language Teaching, 2(3).Sun, A., et al 2003.
Using Support Vector Machine forTerrorism Information Extraction.
In Proceedings of1st NSF/NIJ Symposium on Intelligence and Security.Takenobou, T., V. Sornlertlamvanich, T. Charoenporn,N.
Calzolari, M. Monachini, C. Soria, C. Huang, X.YingJu, Y. Hao, L. Prevot and S. Kiyoaki.
2006.
In-frastructure for Standardization of Asian LanguagesResources.
In Proceedings of the COLING/ACL2006, Sydney, 827-834.The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 20088
