Technical Terminology in Asian Languages:Different Approaches to Adopting Engineering TermsMakiko MatsudaNagaoka University of Technology1603-1 Kamitomioka, Nagaoka, Japanmatsuda@vos.nagaokaut.ac.jpTomoe TakahashiNagaoka University of Technology1603-1 Kamitomioka, Nagaoka, Japantomoe@kjs.nagaokaut.ac.jpHiroki GotoUniversity of ToyamaGofuku, Toyama, Japanhgoto@ctg.u-toyama.ac.jpYoshikazu HayaseToyama National College of Maritime Technology1-2 Ebie-Neriya, Imizu , Japanhayase@toyama-cmt.ac.jpRobin Lee NaganoUniversity of MiskolcMiskolc-Egyetemv?ros, Hungarynagano.robin@chello.huYoshiki MikamiNagaoka University of Technology1603-1 Kamitomioka, Nagaoka, Japanmikami@kjs.nagaokaut.ac.jpAbstractTerminology development in education,science and technology is a key to formu-lating a knowledge society.
The authorsare developing a multilingual engineeringterminology dictionary consisting of morethan ten thousand engineering terms eachfor ten Asian languages and English.
Thedictionary is primarily designed to supportforeign students who are studying engi-neering subjects at Japanese higher educa-tional institutions in the Japanese language.Analysis of the lexical terms could provideuseful knowledge for language resourcecreators.
There are two adoption ap-proaches, ?phonetic adoption?
(translitera-tion of borrowed terms) and ?semanticadoption?
(where the meaning is expressedusing native words).
The proportion of thetwo options found in the terminology set ofeach country (or language) shows a sub-stantial difference and seems to reflectilanguage policies of the country and the in-fluence of foreign languages on the hostlanguage.
This paper presents preliminaryresults of our investigation on this questionbased on a comparative study of three lan-guages: Japanese, Vietnamese and Thai.1 Introduction1.1 Terminology in Development ContextFor developing countries there is a strong necessityto establish an appropriate set of terminology toenable local people to learn science and technologyin an efficient manner throughout their educationalprograms using their mother tongues as the instruc-tional medium.
Instruction in the mother tongue isbeneficial for students to acquire a basic concept ina subject (UNESCO, 2003).International communities are fully aware of thisnecessity.
The World Summit on the InformationSociety (WSIS) addressed this issue, saying thatterminology development in education, science andculture is a key to developing knowledge societies.1.2 Two Approaches to Adopting TermsUnlike the situation with basic vocabulary, scien-tific or technical terms are usually not ?home-grown?, but are often imported from the outsideworld.
And when a scientific or technical term isimported from one language (the source language)to another language (the host language), typicallytwo approaches are found.The first approach is to simply borrow a wordby creating a phonetically equivalent word in thehost language.
For example, the equivalent of theThe 6th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, 200825English word "science" in Malay is "sains", pro-nounced as /sains/, and "computer" in Japanese iswritten as "??????"
in the Japanese kata-kana1 syllabary and is pronounced /konpju:ta/ .
Wecall this phonetic adoption in this paper.
It is quitesimilar to transliteration, but not exactly the samedue to the difference in phonetic structure betweenthe source and host languages.The second approach is to create a new word bycombining a semantically relevant word-root orword in the host language.
For example, "science"in Thai is "???????????
", pronounced /w?tthayas?
:t/.This word is derived from the word "vidya"(knowledge) in Sanskrit, a source from which theThai language has imported many words through-out its history.
"Science" in Japanese is "??
",pronounced /kagaku/.
This word was coined morethan one hundred years ago as a combination oftwo Chinese characters, "?"
and "?
", meaning "asection, or a branch of something" and "learning",respectively.
As shown in these two cases, it oftenhappens that classical languages like Sanskrit orChinese, rather than the host language itself, pro-vide root-words in this creation process just asLatin and Greek roots are used in scientific andtechnical terms in English.
We call this approachsemantic adoption in this paper.1.3 Pros and Cons of the Two ApproachesWhen we look back on the historical evolution ofscientific terms dating from ancient civilization tomodern times, both types of adoption are found.Both approaches to adoption have advantages anddisadvantages in terms of ease of creation and easeof understanding, as well as other issues.
The prosand cons of semantic adoption, summarized in Ta-ble 1, are in principle the opposites of those ofphonetic adoption.But the choice of adoption approach is not sosimple.
The phonetic adoption option is easy toimplement, but would have the danger of disturb-ing language purity, which also has a high priorityin many nations.
When the semantic adoption op-tion is chosen, language purity is maintained butthe adoption cost is high and it takes time to pre-1 In Japanese, four scripts are used to write Japanese, e.g.kanji (i.e., Chinese characters), hiragana, katakana andthe Latin alphabet.
Katakana script is conventionallyused to represent foreign phonetically translated words.pare a meaningful number of vocabulary items andto train teachers in their use.Table 1.
Pros and Cons of Phonetic and SemanticApproaches to Term AdoptionAdvantages DisadvantagesPhoneticadoption(1) easy to findconnectivity to theoriginal word(2) easy to create(1) disturbs the purityof host language(2) not easy to guesswhat it meansSemanticadoption(1) does not disturbthe purity of hostlanguage(2) relatively easyto guess what itmeans, or at least towhat it relates(1) not easy to findconnectivity to theoriginal word(2) not easy to create1.4 Third Approach: Use of foreign languageIn addition to this dilemma, a completely differentapproach can be taken when the necessity is veryurgent.
This is to design and to implement thewhole educational program by means of an estab-lished foreign language.
We call this approach thesource language approach.
In the real world to-day, this third approach is widely adopted in manydeveloping countries, to various extents.
Thechoice of foreign language depends on subject do-mains and the economic and political condition ofthe country as well as on historical ties.1.5 Objectives of the studyIn summary, there are three basic options.
How-ever, little research has been carried out on how alanguage community can effectively formulateterminology focused on Asian languages.
?Guide-lines for Terminology Policy?
(Infoterm 2005)talks about various issues relating to this subject,but no mention is found relating to the question ofadoption strategy.
The authors believe that ananalysis of the existing terminology can providepractical and applicable lessons to terminologydevelopment practitioners and policy makers.
Thispaper presents preliminary results of our investiga-tion on this question, based on a comparative studyof three countries: Japanese, Vietnamese and Thai.2 DictionaryIn this paper, the main corpus is extracted from amultilingual engineering dictionary based on Babel(Hayase and Kawata 2002).
Babel is a web tech-The 6th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, 200826nology dictionary for foreign students in Japan2.
Itis composed of the 11 academic domains given inTable 2 and three languages, English, Japanese andThai.Table 2.
The Number of Words in the JapaneseLexicon by Subject DomainSubject Domain Words (TYPE)WordsTOKENarchitecture 1,314 1,798chemistry 717 958civil engineering 766 1,263telecommunications 650 1,410computer science 941 1,538control engineering 1,081 1,545electronics 681 1,200maritime science 961 1,403mathematics 952 1,284mechanical engineering 1,117 1,186physics 587 945others* 1,872 -Total of all words 11,639 14,530*there is some overlap with other domainsTable 3.
A Sample of the LexiconEnglish Japanese Chinese Vietnam-ese Thaidiscrim-inant ???
???
Bi?t th?c????????????????????
?factortheorem ????
?????
?nh l?th?a s??????????????
?circularmeasure ???
???S?
?ocung tr?n??????????????
?radicalroot ???
?
C?n ??
?limitvalue ???
???Gi?
tr?gi?i h?n ????????
?diver-gence ??
??
Ph?t t?n ????????
?naturallogarithm ????
?????
?i s?
t?nhi?n????????????????
?point ofinflection ???
??
?i?m u?n?????????????????
?To this primary source, we added some terms inmathematics and physics and made a multilingualdatabase such as that shown in Table 3 by adding2 http://www.toyama-cmt.ac.jp/%7Ehayase/Project/Babel/adoptions into 8 languages: Vietnamese, Chinese,Korean, Filipino, Malay, Sinhalese, Myanmar andMongolian.
The data are coded in Unicode.
At pre-sent Vietnamese, Chinese, Korean and Sinhaleselanguage have been translated and other languageswill be finished soon.
The dictionary will be madein April, 2008.
For this paper, we have selectedthree languages for analysis ?
Vietnamese, Thaiand Japanese ?
because these languages have rela-tively rich vocabularies.3 Comparison of Adoption ApproachesThe approach to terminology adoption is examinedin this section from various angles.3.1 Comparison by CountryIn order to investigate the portfolio of two adoptionapproaches, we surveyed the entire lexicon for allmechanical engineering subjects.
In addition, wetook a random sampling in our dictionary andchose approximately 25 words from two majorsubject fields: architecture and computer science.The portfolios of three languages are shown in Ta-ble 4.
Compounds such as hybrids of native andloaned word-components were separated from se-mantic adoption.Table 4.
Comparison of Terms in 3 DomainsRate SubjectDomain# oftermsAdoptionApproachOriginofwords JP VN THSemantic  0.68 0.89 0.78English 0.32 0.09 0.21mechanical engineering 1,186 phoneticothers  0.02 0.01semantic  0.43 0.87 0.78English 0.57 0.13 0.21computer science 23 phoneticotherssemantic  0.69 0.93 0.76English 0.31 0.03 0.24architecture 29phoneticothers  0.03Table 4 shows that the Japanese language hasthe highest percentage of phonetically translatedwords from English.
Vietnamese has the lowestpercentage of phonetic adopted words from Eng-lish, but includes terms from French in mechanicalengineering plus a few from Russian.
Thai shows aThe 6th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, 200827roughly similar balance between semantic adoptionand English-origin terms in all three domains.The high number of Thai and Vietnamese originwords in computer science is rather remarkable, asit indicates a consistent effort to adapt the Thailanguage to every emerging technology.
Note thatover half of the computer science terms for Japa-nese are of English origin.
Vietnamese draws ondifferent languages to varying degrees; it is notablethat the languages of origin vary by subject field.3.2 Comparison by Subject Domain: A Case ofJapanese TermsAs we saw in Table 4, Japanese technical terms areoften phonetically translated, but less so in archi-tecture than in the other two fields.
To gain a betteridea of the distribution of phonetic adoption, wesurveyed the entire Japanese lexicon for all subjectdomains.
Table 5 gives the rate of katakana usage,that is, the rate of words written in the katakanascript used for transcribing foreign words.Table 5.
Rate of katakana UsageSubject Domain # of terms Katakana Ratearchitecture 1,798 147 0.081chemistry 958 234 0.244civil engineering 1,263 156 0.123telecommunications 1,410 422 0.299computer science 1,538 650 0.422control engineering 1,545 497 0.321electronics 1,200 250 0.208maritime science 1,403 51 0.036mathematics 1,284 50 0.038mechanical engineering 1,186 385 0.324physics 945 120 0.126The domains of computer science, control engi-neering and mechanical engineering include over30% of katakana words in their terms.
In contrast,the percentage of katakana terms in architecture,mathematics and maritime science domains is lessthan 10%, indicating that these domains are highlysemantically adopted in their terms, or have littleneed for imported vocabulary.
We thus see thatacademic domain affects the adoption of phoneti-cally translated terms.3.3 Mathematical Terms at Different GradeLevelWe have collected about 1,300 terms in mathemat-ics for our multilingual engineering dictionary.Following the Japanese course of study3 for grades1-12, we chose 57 terms from our dictionary andcompared those terms with their counterparts inThai and Vietnamese.
For university-level mathe-matical terms, following the syllabus of the 1st yearof the Faculty of Mathematics in one JapaneseUniversity, we chose 11 terms4.
Then we also sur-veyed those terms in the same way.
Table 6 exam-ines the terms used in various grade levels.Table 6.
Comparison of Mathematical Terms byGrade LevelRate GradeLevel# oftermsOrigin ofwords JP VN THSemantic(Sino)0.91(0.91)0.90(0.64)0.64(0.00)Univer-sity 11Phonetic 0.09 0.09 0.36Semantic(Sino)1.00(1.00)1.00(0.47)0.88(0.00)HighSchool 17 Phonetic 0.00 0.00 0.12Semantic(Sino)1.00(1.00)1.00(0.61)1.00(0.00)Juniorhighschool18Phonetic 0.00 0.00 0.00Semantic(Sino)1.00(1.00)1.00(0.50)1.00(0.00)Elemen-taryschool22Phonetic 0.00 0.00 0.00These data indicate that all languages use eitheroriginal or semantically adopted from elementarylevel to junior-high school level.
For Japanese al-most all words are Sino-Japanese; in oral instruc-tion native words may be used in Japan but thoseare not used as keywords.
As for high school, somewords phonetically translated from English areused in Thai, while at university level all languagesuse English-origin words.
As for the rate of Sino-Vietnamese words in mathematics, it is considera-bly higher than other categories.
This suggests thatthe likelihood that Sino-origin words can be shared3The Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Scienceand Technology, Japan (MEXT) determines the nationalcurriculum.4 We took terms from the 1st year syllabus of the Facultyof Mathematical Science in  Doshisya University.The 6th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, 200828effectively in other countries using Chinese charac-ters is generally high in the field of mathematics.3.4 Web Presence of English Terms and theirAdopted EquivalentsWe also examined the web presence of pairs ofterms, an English word and its equivalent in thehost language.
This is an attempt to find howwidely the source language approach ?
direct useof foreign language ?
is used in technological top-ics.
Four words from different subject domainswere chosen, and a search was carried out for theterm (as an exact phrase) using the Google searchengine (Table 7).Table 7.
Web Presence of Technical TermsSearchthroughSearch term(s) # of hits*EN ionization 121,000JP ??
419,000EN fusion welding 387JP ??
12,900EN automatic lathe 258JP ????
56,600EN operand 32,500JP ?????
(katakana) 138,000JapanesepagesJP ???
(kanji) 10,700EN ionization 89VN ?i?n ly 13,900EN fusion welding 6VN H?n n?ng ch?y 66EN automatic lathe 2VN M?y ti?n t?
?
?ng 48EN operand 111Viet-namesepagesVN S?
t?nh to?n 810EN ionization 10,600TH ???????????
48EN fusion welding 692TH ?????????????????????
6EN automatic lathe 39TH ????????????????????
195EN operand 568ThaipagesTH ????????????????
24*Accessed on Sept. 18, 2007While data are limited to just four terms, generaltrends can be identified.
For Japanese pages, whilethere were many hits for English, the hits for Japa-nese terms were at least three times higher.
Inter-estingly, for operand, the one term with twoequivalents, the katakana (i.e., phoneticallyadopted) term was used far more frequently thanthe semantically adopted kanji term.
In the Viet-namese pages, while far fewer total hits were made,the Vietnamese terms were overwhelmingly morefrequent than English terms.
For Thai pages theopposite was found, with the exception of auto-matic lathe, a tool that may require marketing inthe local language.
These results suggest that themajor language of technology for Thailand is Eng-lish, for Vietnam it is the native language, and forJapan there is English use but Japanese dominates.In order to find if there is a distinction betweenuse in technological fields and in general use, wemade a comparison using three non-technical terms(Table 8).Table 8.
Web Presence of Non-technical TermsSearchthroughSearch term(s) # of hits*EN water 2,200,000JP ?
24,200,000EN novel 2,242,000JP ??
9,870,000EN zoo 2,580,000JapanesepagesJP ???
2,650,000EN water 295,000VN n?
?c 4,310,000EN novel 68,400VN ti?u thuy?t 2,130,000EN zoo 41,500VN v?
?n b?ch th?
** 615,000VietnamesepagesVN s?
th?
*** 1,750,000EN water 1,850,000TH ????
2,610,000EN novel 269,000TH ????????
1,830,000EN zoo 272,000Thai pagesTH ????????
620,000*Accessed on Sept. 10, 2007**Northern dialect,  ***Southern dialectThe 6th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, 200829Again, we find that Japanese pages use theJapanese word far more frequently (although zoo isnearly equal ?
perhaps due to the exotic appeal of aforeign word, and one understood by almost everyJapanese) but that English words have a sizablepresence.
For Vietnamese pages, the number ofhits is substantially higher than that for the techni-cal terms, but the same trend exists: the native lan-guage dominates.
Finally, for Thai pages, the hitsfor Thai words far exceed those for English wordsin all three cases, although English words are oftenused.A comparison of results for Tables 7 and 8 con-firms that the role of languages differs betweendaily use and situations that require technical ter-minology, even in a country that has adopted thethird approach of using a foreign language for sci-ence and technology.4  Social and Academic Factors4.1 High Rate of Semantic Adoption in AsianCountriesAs can be imagined, it is not easy for Asian peopleto understand technical terms in other Asian lan-guages, because semantic adoption is popularamong Asian languages.
The diversity of scripts inAsia is another reason of this difficulty.
In Euro-pean countries, term-sharing by phonetic adoptionis easier because almost all languages were derivedfrom the same origin and are sharing the samescript.
Therefore, in order to achieve mutual com-munication using technical terms in Asian coun-tries, we need to make special efforts to go overthe variation and harmonize terms each other.But we need to discuss why those languages pre-fer semantic adoption.
Various social, political,and historical factors influence language use.
Thisapplies also to the adoption of technical terminol-ogy.
Here, we discuss influences of these factorson the approaches used to adopt technical terms,including the influence of technical domains andacademic discipline.4.2 Language Policies and Historical Back-ground4.2.1 VietnamIn Vietnam, adoption is strongly promoted underthe strict language policy.
The Political Resume ofthe Socialist Republic of Vietnam states that?
[e]very nationality has the right to use its ownlanguage and system of writing, to preserve its na-tional identity, and to promote its fine customs,habits, traditions and culture.?
Therefore they sel-dom use phonetically adopted words as such.
Oneexample of its limited use is ??m?
from the English?ohm.?
Another example is proper nouns, whenforeign words are used in newspapers This politi-cal reason is the primary impetus for the semanticadoption of terms.Secondly, as in other communist nations, Eng-lish is not taught as an obligatory subject in Viet-nam.
This educational policy also brings about alow rate of phonetically adopted words from Eng-lish, because many people cannot grasp the mean-ing.Thirdly, we need to consider that the Vietnam-ese language has been historically influenced byseveral foreign languages, as we can induce fromTable 4?s results.
Vietnam was under the influenceof China for approximately 1,000 years.
A numberof Chinese terms were absorbed into Vietnameseas Sino-Vietnamese words.
During the French co-lonial period, the Vietnamese language addedFrench words for the manufacture of specificproducts such as automobiles and bicycles.
Lastly,at the end of the 20th century Russian technicalterms were introduced by people who had studiedin or technical advisers who had sent by the SovietUnion or in Russia4.2.2 JapanAs is the case with Vietnam, Chinese charactersand words were imported from China so long agothat the characters and words are regarded as partof the native Japanese language.
In the end of the19th century, a number of Japanese-kango (wordsthat used Chinese characters but were created byJapanese people) were invented as adoptions ofwestern technical terms, and many of these termswere re-imported to China.After World War?, Japan was occupied by theAllied Forces led by the United States and Englishbecame a compulsory subject from junior highschool.
English-origin words became easy to un-derstand for many Japanese.
This historical changecaused a sharp rise in percentage of phonetic adop-tions from English among Japanese technical terms(see Table 5) (Hashimoto 2007).
However, Englishis not usually used as an instructional medium inThe 6th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, 200830Japanese institutions of higher education.
Teachersand students know many English loan terms butthey use these loan terms not as English but asJapanese, and since they are pronounced accordingto Japanese phonetic rules, they may not even beintelligible to English speakers.4.2.2 ThaiThai has different features from the other twocountries in that it is less influenced by Chinese.But the Thai language has been influenced by an-other foreign language, Sanskrit, the classical In-dian language.
We did not examine the rate of San-skrit origin words in the Thai language in thisstudy, but it seems likely that a high rate of termsphonetically adopted from Sanskrit will be foundin our engineering dictionary.
Although Thai hasnative-language equivalents at the lexical level,English is daily used as an instructional medium inhigher education.
Students in Thailand start tolearn English at 10 years old or earlier.
Thus, eventhough they have native terms they prefer to useterms phonetically adopted from English or to useEnglish.4.3 Other Factors4.3.1 When the subject was introduced?In the Meiji era (1868-1912) in Japan, expertstranslated technical terms from Western languagessemantically, into Japanese-kango.
Since WorldWar II, however, it has been the mainstream totransliterate into katakana.
Therefore a decisivefactor in adoption approach is when the subjectwas introduced into Japan.
Table 9 shows thefoundation year for major academic societies andinstitutes in engineering fields, which roughly in-dicates the time of introduction of the subject.As shown in Table 5, computer science is thefield that uses technical terms in katakana mostfrequently, while the sampled vocabulary fromtelecommunications also includes nearly 30% ofkatakana words.
These disciplines are relativelynewly developed in Japan; the societies or insti-tutes related to these fields were established in thelatter half of the 20th century.The oldest societies, the Mathematical Societyof Japan and The Physical Society of Japan, wereestablished in 1877; our study showed that only3.8% of mathematical terms and 12.6% of terms inphysics are phonetically adopted terms.
Therefore,disciplines with academic societies establishedrelatively early may have developed a great deal oftheir terminology during the Meiji era, and maystill have a preference for Japanese-kango overkatakana.
Newer disciplines, on the other hand,may have found it easier to use the imported termsin a relatively direct way.Table 9.
Academic Societies in JapanDiscipline Major Academic Society in Japan Est.architecture Architectural Institute of Japan 1886civilengineering Japan Society of Civil Engineers 1914chemistry Chemistry and Chemical Industry of Japan 1878Information Processing Society ofJapan 1960The Institute of Electronics, Infor-mation, and Communication Engi-neers1987tele-communica-tions,computerscience The Japan Society of Informationand Communication Research 1983controlengineeringThe Institute of Systems, Controland Information Engineers 1957electronics The Institute of Electrical Engi-neers of Japan 1888maritimescienceThe Japan Society of Naval Archi-tects and Ocean Engineers 1898mathematics Mathematical Society of Japan 1877mechanicalengineeringThe Japan Society of MechanicalEngineers 1897physics The Physical Society of Japan 18774.3.2.
Is it indigenous?Each country has specific characteristics of theregion, such as regional climate, folk, culture, life-style and other indigenous factors.
Technical termsin these fields are therefore strongly connectedwith regional characteristics.
Before unfamiliarterms or new technologies were brought over to thehost country, experts in those fields had alreadycreated and used their own technical terms in theirnative language, and also they were already awareof the concept of a thing indicated by an unfamiliarterm in alien language.
All they had to do was tomake a one-to-one correspondence and correctlytranslate a foreign term into the term that was al-ready in use in the mother tongue.The 6th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, 2008315 ConclusionThis preliminary study looks at the different ap-proaches to adopting technical terms in three Asianlanguages.
The three languages investigated preferdifferent methods: Vietnamese tends to adoptwords into its language semantically, throughadoption, while Japanese adopts them phonetically,through transliteration.
Thai, to a large extent, haschosen a third approach, that of using a source lan-guage (English).In Japanese and in Vietnamese, many terms sub-ject to semantic adoption were translated into Chi-nese characters.
This suggests that Sino-words maybe an effective way of communicating conceptsamong certain language users in certain disciplines,such as mathematics.The effect of grade level was also investigated,and it was found that native language terms wereused in mathematics almost exclusively until highschool or university level.Subject domain was found to have an effect onthe adoption approach and was often influenced bywhether the domain had a long tradition, and whenestablished a discipline was (as shown by thefoundation of academic societies).
A domain effectwas seen in Vietnamese, where Russian or French-origin terms appeared in different domains.While quite limited in scope, this study has re-vealed clear trends that deserve further investiga-tion.6 Future ResearchWe plan to investigate more fully the rate of pho-netically translated words and approach to termi-nology adoption.
We expect that Chinese and Ko-rean will give us further evidence of widespreaduse of Sino-words and Mongolian will providedata for phonetic adoption from Russian.
Malayand Filipino are likely to be highly influenced byEnglish, while we will find the influence of San-skrit in Myanmar and Sinhalese.AcknowledgementsThe study was made possible by the sponsorship ofthe Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture,Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) throughthe Asian Language Resource Network project.The authors would like to express sincere gratitudeto all lexicon contributors for their help.ReferencesChristian Galinski.
1995.
Terminology and Standardiza-tion under a machine adoption perspective.
MTSummit V Proceedings.Douglas Skuce, Ingrid Meyer.
1990.
Concept Analysisand Terminology: A Knowledge-Based Approach toDocumentation, International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics archive Proceedings of the 13thconference on Computational linguistics, Volume 1.Giovanni Battista Varile, Antonio Zampolli.
1997.
Sur-vey of the State of the Art in Human Language Tech-nology.
Cambridge University Press.Hashimoto Waka.
2007.
A diachronic transition of pho-netically translated words in Japanese: based on thecolumn of newspaper.
Language, 36-6, TaishukanPublishers, Japan.
(????
???????????????????????????36-6??????
)Hayase Yoshikazu, Shigeo Kawata.
2002.
BABEL: Amultilingual dictionary and hypertext formation sys-tem for engineers.
Transactions of JSCES, PaperNo.20020023.(???
?, ????
?BABEL: ????????????????????????????)Infoterm.
2005.
UNESCO Guidelines for TerminologyPolicies.
Fomulating and implementing terminologypolicy in language communities, Paris.Kageura Kyo.
2006.
The status of borrowed items inJapanese terminology.
Studies in Japanese LanguageVol2, No.4 ????
??????????????????????????????????2006?UNESCO.
2003.
Education in a multilingual world.Paris: UNESCO, (ED-2003/WS/2)               .http://unesdoc.unesco.org/images/0012/001297/129728e.pdfThe 6th Workshop on Asian Language Resources, 200832
