Proceedings of the IJCNLP-08 Workshop on NLP for Less Privileged Languages, pages 7?12,Hyderabad, India, January 2008. c?2008 Asian Federation of Natural Language ProcessingNatural Language Processing for Less Privileged Languages: Where do wecome from?
Where are we going?Anil Kumar SinghLanguage Technologies Research CentreIIIT, Hyderabad, Indiaanil@research.iiit.ac.inAbstractIn the context of the IJCNLP workshopon Natural Language Processing (NLP) forLess Privileged Languages, we discuss theobstacles to research on such languages.We also briefly discuss the ways to makeprogress in removing these obstacles.
Wemention some previous work and commenton the papers selected for the workshop.1 IntroductionWhile computing has become ubiquitous in the de-veloped regions, its spread in other areas such asAsia is more recent.
However, despite the fact thatAsia is a dense area in terms of linguistic diversity(or perhaps because of it), many Asian languagesare inadequately supported on computers.
Even ba-sic NLP tools are not available for these languages.This also has a social cost.NLP or Computational Linguistics (CL) basedtechnologies are now becoming important and fu-ture intelligent systems will use more of these tech-niques.
Most of NLP/CL tools and technologies aretailored for English or European languages.
Re-cently, there has been a rapid growth of IT indus-try in many Asian countries.
This is now the per-fect time to reduce the linguistic, computational andcomputational linguistics gap between the ?moreprivileged?
and ?less privileged?
languages.The IJCNLP workshop on NLP for Less Privi-leged Language is aimed at bridging this gap.
Onlywhen a basic infrastructure for supporting regionallanguages becomes available can we hope for a moreequitable availability of opportunities made possi-ble by the language technology.
There have alreadybeen attempts in this direction and this workshopwill hopefully take them further.Figure-1 shows one possible view of the computa-tional infrastructure needed for language processingfor a particular language, or more preferably, for aset of related languages.In this paper, we will first discuss various aspectsof the problem.
We will then look back at the workalready done.
After that, we will present some sug-gestion for future work.
But we will begin by ad-dressing a minor issue: the terminology.2 TerminologyThere can be a debate about the correct term for thelanguages on which this workshop focuses.
Thereare at least four candidates: less studied (LS) lan-guages, resource scarce (RS) languages, less com-puterized (LC) languages, and less privileged (LP)languages.
Out of these, two (LS and RS) are toonarrow for our purposes.
LC is admittedly more ob-jective, but it also is somewhat narrow in the sensethat it does not cover the lack of resources for cre-ating resources (finance) and the lack of linguisticstudy.
We have used LP because it is more generaland covers all the aspects of the problem.
However,it might be preferable to use LC in many contexts.As the common element among all these termsis the adjective ?less?
(?resoure scarce?
can beparaphrased as ?with less resources?
), perhaps wecan avoid the terminological debate by calling thelanguages covered by any such terms as the L-languages.7FirstLevel PreprocessingSecond Level Preprocessing Editors and InterfacesModels and OtherApplicationsHigher Level MultilingualNLP ApplicationsTextLanguage-EncodingIdentificationEncoding ConvertersText NormalizationSentence SplittingTokenizationMorphological AnalyzerEncoding ConverterGeneratorModel of ScriptsSpell CheckerModel of MorphologyPart Of Speech TaggerOther SpecializedInterfacesText EditorAnnotation InterfacesLocal Word Grouperor ChunkerFigure 1: One view of the basic computational in-frastructure required for Natural Language Process-ing or Computational Linguistics.
Components likeencoding converters are needed for languages withless standardization, such as the South Asian lan-guages.
Language resources like lexicon, corporaetc.
have not been shown in this figure.3 ProblemsNot surprisingly, the terms mentioned in the previ-ous section cover different aspects of the problemsthat restrict work on and for these languages.
Thereis a lack of something and each of those terms coverssome part of what is lacking.3.1 Linguistic StudyThe term LS languages indicates that these are notwell studied linguistically.
The sheer amount of lin-guistic analysis available for English is so huge thatthe linguistic work on even a language like Hindi,which is spoken or understood by a billion people,is simply not comparable.
For languages (or di-alects) like Santali or Manipuri, the situation is muchworse.
And there are a large number of languageswhich have been studied even less than Santali orManipuri.
There are dozens (more accurately, hun-dreds) of such languages in South Asia alone1.
Itcan be said that very little is known about the ma-jority of languages of the world, many of which arefacing extinction.3.2 Language ResourcesEven those languages which have been studied to agood extent, e.g.
Telugu, lack language resources,e.g.
a large dictionary in machine readable form,let alne resources like WordNet or FrameNet, al-though efforts are being made to develop resourcesfor some of these languages.
The term RS coversthis aspect of the problem.3.3 ComputerizationComputerization, in general, might include machinereadable language resources and NLP tools etc., buthere we will restrict the meaning of this term to thesupport for languages that is provided on comput-ers, either as part of operating systems, or in thecommonly used applications such as word proces-sors.
In the narrowest sense, computerization meanslanguage-encoding support.
Even this level of sup-port is currently not available (or is inadequate) fora large number of languages.3.4 Language ProcessingProper computerization (in the restricted sense) is aprerequisite to effective language processing.
Buteven without adequate computerization, attempts arebeing made towards making language processingpossible for the L-languages.
However, languageprocessing for the L-languages is still far behind thatfor English.
For a large number of language it is,in fact, non-existent.
This is true even for a lan-guage like Gujarati, which is the official languageof the state of Gujarat in India and is recognized asa scheduled language by the government of India.And it is actually used as the first language by thepeople of Gujarat, which is one of the larger statesin India.
While adequate computerization may beeasy to achieve in the near future, at least theoret-ically, language processing (and building languageresources) is going to be much more difficult task.1Ethnologue: http://www.ethnologue.com/web.asp8NLP/CLLinguistic StudyComputerizationLess Privileged(Finance, Human Resources,Equipment, Socio-Political Support, etc.
)NLP/ CLLinguistic StudyComputerizationOther PrivilegesMore PrivilegedSourceDestinationFigure 2: The four dimensions of the problem: The Source is where we come from and Destination is wherewe are going.
The problem is to go from the Source to the Destination and the solution is non-trivial.3.5 Other PrivilegesOne of the major reasons why building language re-sources and providing language processing capabil-ities for the L-languages is going to be a very dif-ficult task is the fact that these languages lack theprivileges which make it possible to build languageresources and NLP/CL tools.
By ?privileges?
wemean the availability of finance, equipment, humanresources, and even political and social support forreducing the lack of computing and language pro-cessing support for the L-languages.
The lack ofsuch ?privileges?
may be the single biggest reasonwhich is holding back the progress towards provid-ing computing and language processing support forthese languages.4 Some (Partially) Successful EffortsThe problem seems to be insurmountable, but therehas been some progress.
More importantly, the ur-gency of solving this problem (even if partially) isbeing realized by more and more people.
Some re-cent events or efforts which tried to address the prob-lem and which have had some impact in improvingthe situation are:?
The LREC conferences and workshops2.?
Workshop on ?Shallow Parsing in South AsianLanguages?, IJCAI-07, India.2www.lrec-conf.org?
EMELD and the Digital Tools Summit in Lin-guistics, 2006, USA.?
Workshop on Language Resources for Euro-pean Minority Languages, 1998, Spain.?
Projects supported by ELRA on the Basic Lan-guage Resource Kit (BLARK) that targets thespecifications of a minimal kits for each lan-guage to support NLP tools development3.?
There is also a corresponding project at LDC(the Less Commonly Taught Languages4).?
The IJCNLP Workshop on Named EntityRecognition for South and South Asian Lan-guages5.This list is, of course, not exhaustive.
There aremany papers relevant to the theme of this workshopat the IJCNLP 2008 main conference6 , as at someprevious major conferences.
There is also a very rel-evant tutorial (Mihalcea, 2008) at the IJCNLP 2008conference about building resources and tools forlanguages with scarce resources.Even the industry is realizing the importance ofproviding computing support for some of the L-languages.
In the last few years there have beenmany announcements about the addition of some3http://www.elda.org/blark4http://projects.ldc.upenn.edu/LCTL5http://ltrc.iiit.ac.in/ner-ssea-08/6http://ijcnlp2008.org9such language to a product or a service and alsoof the addition of better facilities (input methods,transliteration, search) in an existing product or ser-vice for some L-language.5 Towards a SolutionSince the problem is very much like the conserva-tion of the Earth?s environment, there is no easy so-lution.
It is not even evident that a complete solutionis possible.
However, we can still try for the bestpossible solution.
Such a solution should have someprerequisites.
As Figure-2 shows, the ?other privi-leges?
dimension of the problem has to be a majorelement of the solution, but it is not something overwhich researchers and developers have much con-trol.
This means that we will have to find ways towork even with very little of these ?other privileges?.This is the key point that we want to make in thispaper because it implies that the methods that havebeen used for English (a language with almost un-limited ?privileges?)
may not be applicable for theL-languages.
Many of these methods assume theavailability of certain things which simply cannot beassumed for the L-languages.
For example, there isno reasonable ground to assume that there will be(in the near future) corpus even with shallow levelsof annotation for Avadhi or Dogri or Konkani, letalone a treebank like resource.
Therefore, we haveto look for methods which can work with unanno-tated corpus.
Moreover, these methods should alsonot require a lot of work from trained linguists be-cause such linguists may not be available to work onthese languages.
There is one approach, however,that can still allow us to build resources and toolsfor these languages.
This is the approach of adapt-ing the resources of a linguistically close but moreprivileged language.
It is this area which needs tobe studied and explored more thoroughly because itseems to be the only practical way to make the kindof progress that is required urgently.
The processof resource adaptation will have to studied from lin-guistic, computational, and other practical points ofview.
Since ?other privileges?
are a major factor asdiscussed earlier, some ways of calculating the costof adaptation have also to be found.Another very general but important point is thatwe will have to build multilingual systems as faras possible so that the cost per language is reduced.This will require innovation in terms of modeling aswell as engineering.6 Some Comments about the WorkshopThe scope of the workshop included topics such asthe following:?
Archiving and creation of interoperable dataand metadata for less privileged languages?
Support for less privileged language on com-puters.
This includes input methods, dis-play, fonts, encoding converters, spell check-ers, more linguistically aware text editors etc.?
Basic NLP tools such as sentence marker, tok-enizer, morphological analyzer, transliterationtools, language and encoding identifiers etc.?
Advanced NLP tools such as POS taggers, localword grouper, approximate string search, toolsfor developing language resources.There were a relatively large number of submis-sions to the workshop and the overall quality wasat least above average.
The most noteworthy fact isthat the variety of papers submitted (and selected)was pleasantly surprising.
The workshop includespaper on topics as diverse as Machine Translation(MT) from text to sign language (an L-language onwhich very few people have worked) to MT fromspeech to speech.
And from segmentation and stem-ming to parser adaptation.
Also, from input meth-ods, text editor and interfaces to part of speech(POS) tagger.
The variety is also remarkable interms of the languages covered and research loca-tions.In addition, the workshop includes three invitedtalks: the first on building language resources by re-source adaptation (David and Maxwell, 2008); thesecond on cross-language resource sharing (Sorn-lertlamvanich, 2008b); and the third on breaking theZipfian barrier in NLP (Choudhury, 2008).
It canbe said that the workshop has been a moderate suc-cess.
We hope it will stimulate further work in thisdirection.107 An Overview of the PapersWe noted above that resource adaptation needs alot more study.
In one of the papers at the work-shop, Zeman and Resnik presented their work oncross-language parser adaptation between relatedlanguages, which can be highly relevant for theL-languages in ?linguistic areas?
(Emeneau, 1956;Emeneau, 1980).
Maxwell and David suggest abetter way to weave together a descriptive gram-mar with a formal grammar through collaborationbetween linguists and computer scientists.
Alegriaet al discuss the strategies for sustainable MTfor Basque.
They suggest that the main elementsof such a strategy should be incremental design,reusability, standardization and open source devel-opment.Among the papers which focus more on comput-erization and building of tools, Sornlertlamvanichet al present a ubiquitous system called KUI forcollective intelligence development.
Goonetilleke etal.
describe a predictive text input system calledSriShell Primo for Sinhala language.
Veeraragha-van and Roy describe a text editor and a frameworkfor working with Indic scripts.
Aggarwal and Davepresent an implementation of a speech recognitionsystem interface for Indian languages.Riza presents brief overview of the literature onlanguage endangerment, with focus on the Indone-sian languages.
Some other papers focused moreon linguistic study as applied for computational pur-poses.
Among them, Ali et al investigate the opti-mal order of factors for the computational treatmentof personal anaphoric devices in Urdu discourse.Muhirwe and Trosterud discuss finite state solutionsfor reduplication in Kinyarwanda language.
MaungMaung and Mikami describe a rule-based syllablesegmentation of Myanmar text.
In another paperon a related domain, Sarkar and Bandyopadhyaypresent a design of a rule-based stemmer for natu-ral language text in Bengali.Among the papers focusing more on NLP, Das-gupta et al present a prototype machine translationsystem from text to Indian Sign Language (ISL).
Inanother paper on MT, Ellis et al describe an Finnishto English speech to speech machine translation sys-tem that they have currently tried with some successon the Bible.
Doren and Bandyopadhyay present amorphology driven Manipuri POS tagger.
Anotherpaper on POS tagging is by Patel and Gali.
Theyhave tried to build a tagger for Gujarati.8 ConclusionWe discussed the problem of the lack of linguis-tic study, language resources, NLP tools for somelanguages, which we called the L-languages sincethey less of something.
We argued that the ?otherprivileges?
form another dimension of the problemand are a crucial factor in deciding what methodswe should use to solve this problem.
The techni-cal has to take into account this non-technical factor.We suggested that resource adaptation may be oneto move forward.
Finally we made some commentsabout the NLPLPL-08 workshop.9 AcknowledgmentWe would specially like to thank Samar Husain andHarshit Surana (Language Technologies ResearchCentre, IIIT, Hyderabad, India) for providing vitalhelp in organizing this workshop.ReferencesRajesh Kumar Aggarwal and Mayank Dave.
2008.
Im-plementing a speech recognition system interface forindian languages.
In Proceedings of the IJCNLPWorkshop on NLP for Less Privileged Languages, Hy-derabad, India.I Alegria, Xabier Arregi, Xabier Artola, Arantza Diazde Ilarraza, Gorka Labaka, Mikel Lersundi, AingeruMayor, and Kepa Sarasola.
2008.
Strategies forsustainable mt for basque: incremental design, reus-ability, standardization and open-source.
In Proceed-ings of the IJCNLP Workshop on NLP for Less Privi-leged Languages, Hyderabad, India.Mohammad Naveed Ali, Muhammad Abid Khan, andMuhammad Aamir Khan.
2008.
An optimal orderof factors for the computational treatment of personalanaphoric devices in urdu discourse.
In Proceedingsof the IJCNLP Workshop on NLP for Less PrivilegedLanguages, Hyderabad, India.Monojit Choudhury.
2008.
Breaking the zipfian barrierof nlp.
Invited Talk at the IJCNLP Workshop on NLPfor Less Privileged Languages.
Hyderabad, India.Tirthankar Dasgupta, Sandipan Dandapat, and AnupamBasu.
2008.
Prototype machine translation systemfrom text-to-indian sign language.
In Proceedings11of the IJCNLP Workshop on NLP for Less PrivilegedLanguages, Hyderabad, India.Anne David and Michael Maxwell.
2008.
Building lan-guage resources: Ways to move forward.
Invited Talkat the IJCNLP Workshop on NLP for Less PrivilegedLanguages, 2008.
Hyderabad, India.Timo Honkela David Ellis, Mathias Creutz and MikkoKurimo.
2008.
Speech to speech machine translation:Biblical chatter from finnish to english.
In Proceed-ings of the IJCNLP Workshop on NLP for Less Privi-leged Languages, Hyderabad, India.M.
B. Emeneau.
1956.
India as a linguistic area.
Lin-guistics, 32:3-16.M.
B. Emeneau.
1980.
Language and linguistic area.
Es-says by Murray B. Emeneau.
Selected and introducedby Anwar S. Dil.
Stanford University Press.Sandeva Goonetilleke, Yoshihiko Hayashi, Yuichi Itoh,and Fumio Kishino.
2008.
Srishell primo: A predic-tive sinhala text input system.
In Proceedings of theIJCNLP Workshop on NLP for Less Privileged Lan-guages, Hyderabad, India.Zin Maung Maung and Yoshiki Mikami.
2008.
A rule-based syllable segmentation of myanmar text.
In Pro-ceedings of the IJCNLP Workshop on NLP for LessPrivileged Languages, Hyderabad, India.Michael Maxwell and Anne David.
2008.
Joint grammardevelopment by linguists and computer scientists.
InProceedings of the IJCNLP Workshop on NLP for LessPrivileged Languages, Hyderabad, India.Rada Mihalcea.
2008.
How to add a new language on thenlp map: Building resources and tools for languageswith scarce resources.
Tutorial at the Third Interna-tional Joint Conference on Natural Language Process-ing (IJCNLP).
Hyderabad, India.Jackson Muhirwe and Trond Trosterud.
2008.
Finitestate solutions for reduplication in kinyarwanda lan-guage.
In Proceedings of the IJCNLP Workshop onNLP for Less Privileged Languages, Hyderabad, In-dia.Chirag Patel and Karthik Gali.
2008.
Part of speech tag-ger for gujarati using conditional random fields.
InProceedings of the IJCNLP Workshop on NLP for LessPrivileged Languages, Hyderabad, India.Hammam Riza.
2008.
Indigenous languages of indone-sia: Creating language resources for language preser-vation.
In Proceedings of the IJCNLP Workshop onNLP for Less Privileged Languages, Hyderabad, In-dia.Sandipan Sarkar and Sivaji Bandyopadhyay.
2008.
De-sign of a rule-based stemmer for natural language textin bengali.
In Proceedings of the IJCNLP Workshopon NLP for Less Privileged Languages, Hyderabad,India.Thoudam Doren Singh and Sivaji Bandyopadhyay.
2008.Morphology driven manipuri pos tagger.
In Proceed-ings of the IJCNLP Workshop on NLP for Less Privi-leged Languages, Hyderabad, India.Virach Sornlertlamvanich, Thatsanee Charoenporn,Kergrit Robkop, and Hitoshi Isahara.
2008a.
Kui:an ubiquitous tool for collective intelligence devel-opment.
In Proceedings of the IJCNLP Workshopon NLP for Less Privileged Languages, Hyderabad,India.Virach Sornlertlamvanich.
2008b.
Cross language re-source sharing.
Invited Talk at the IJCNLP Workshopon NLP for Less Privileged Languages, 2008.
Hyder-abad, India.Krishnakumar Veeraraghavan and Indrani Roy.
2008.Acharya - a text editor and framework for workingwith indic scripts.
In Proceedings of the IJCNLPWorkshop on NLP for Less Privileged Languages, Hy-derabad, India.Daniel Zeman and Philip Resnik.
2008.
Cross-languageparser adaptation between related languages.
In Pro-ceedings of the IJCNLP Workshop on NLP for LessPrivileged Languages, Hyderabad, India.12
