Towards an Annotated Corpus of Discourse Relations in HindiRashmi Prasad*, Samar Husain?, Dipti Mishra Sharma?
and Aravind Joshi*AbstractWe describe our initial efforts towardsdeveloping a large-scale corpus of Hinditexts annotated with discourse relations.Adopting the lexically grounded approachof the Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB),we present a preliminary analysis ofdiscourse connectives in a small corpus.We describe how discourse connectives arerepresented in the sentence-leveldependency annotation in Hindi, anddiscuss how the discourse annotation canenrich this level for research andapplications.
The ultimate goal of our workis to build a Hindi Discourse Relation Bankalong the lines of the PDTB.
Our work willalso contribute to the cross-linguisticunderstanding of discourse connectives.1 IntroductionAn increasing interest in human languagetechnologies such as textual summarization,question answering, natural language generationhas recently led to the development of severaldiscourse annotation projects aimed at creatinglarge scale resources for natural languageprocessing.
One of these projects is the PennDiscourse Treebank (PDTB Group, 2006),1whosegoal is to annotate the discourse relations holdingbetween eventualities described in a text, forexample causal and contrastive relations.
ThePDTB is unique in using a lexically groundedapproach for annotation: discourse relations areanchored in lexical items (called ?explicitdiscourse connectives?)
whenever they are* University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA,{rjprasad,joshi}@seas.upenn.edu?
Language Technologies Research Centre, IIIT, Hyderabad,India, samar@research.iiit.ac.in, dipti@iiit.ac.in1 http://www.seas.upenn.edu/?pdtbexplicitly realized in the text.
For example, in (1),the causal relation between ?the federalgovernment suspending US savings bonds sales?and ?Congress not lifting the ceiling ongovernment debt?
is expressed with the explicitconnective ?because?.2 The two arguments of eachconnective are also annotated, and the annotationsof both connectives and their arguments arerecorded in terms of their text span offsets.3(1) The federal government suspended sales of U.S.savings bonds because Congress hasn?t lifted theceiling on government debt.One of the questions that arises is how thePDTB style annotation can be carried over tolanguages other than English.
It may prove to be achallenge cross-linguistically, as the guidelines andmethodology appropriate for English may notapply as well or directly to other languages,especially when they differ greatly in syntax andmorphology.
To date, cross-linguisticinvestigations of connectives in this direction havebeen carried out for Chinese (Xue, 2005) andTurkish (Deniz and Webber, 2008).
This paperexplores discourse relation annotation in Hindi, alanguage with rich morphology and free wordorder.
We describe our study of ?explicitconnectives?
in a small corpus of Hindi texts,discussing them from two perspectives.
First, weconsider the type and distribution of Hindiconnectives, proposing to annotate a wider range2 The PDTB also annotates implicit discourse relations, butonly locally, between adjacent sentences.
Annotation hereconsists of providing connectives (called ?implicit discourseconnectives?)
to express the inferred relation.
Implicitconnectives are beyond the scope of this paper, but will betaken up in future work.3 The PDTB also records the senses of the connectives, andeach connective and its arguments are also marked for theirattribution.
Sense annotation and attribution annotation are notdiscussed in this paper.
We will, of course, pursue theseaspects in our future work concerning the building of a HindiDiscourse Relation Bank.The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200873of connectives than the PDTB.
Second, weconsider how the connectives are represented inthe Hindi sentence-level dependency annotation, inparticular discussing how the discourse annotationcan enrich the sentence-level structures.
We alsobriefly discuss issues involved in aligning thediscourse and sentence-level annotations.Section 2 provides a brief description of Hindiword order and morphology.
In Section 3, wepresent our study of the explicit connectivesidentified in our texts, discussing them in light ofthe PDTB.
Section 4 describes how connectivesare represented in the sentence-level dependencyannotation in Hindi.
Finally, Section 5 concludeswith a summary and future work.2 Brief Overview of Hindi Syntax andMorphologyHindi is a free word order language with SOV asthe default order.
This can be seen in (2), where(2a) shows the constituents in the default order,and the remaining examples show some of theword order variants of (2a).
(2)  a. malaya       nao         samaIr         kao     iktaba    dI .malay   ERG  sameer    DAT  book   gave?Malay gave the book to Sameer?
(S-IO-DO-V)4b.
malaya nao iktaba samaIr kao dI.
(S-DO-IO-V)c. samaIr kao malaya nao iktaba dI.
(IO-S-DO-V)d. samaIr kao iktaba malaya nao dI.
(IO-DO-S-V)e. iktaba malaya nao samaIr kao dI.
(DO-S-IO-V)f. iktaba samaIr kao malaya nao dI.
(DO-IO-S-V)Hindi also has a rich case marking system,although case marking is not obligatory.
Forexample, in (2), while the subject and indirectobject are explicitly for the ergative (ERG) anddative (DAT) cases, the direct object is unmarkedfor the accusative.3 Discourse Connectives in HindiGiven the lexically grounded approach adopted fordiscourse annotation, the first question that arisesis how to identify discourse connectives in Hindi.Unlike the case of the English connectives in thePDTB, there are no resources that alone or togetherprovide an exhaustive list of connectives in the4 S=Subject; IO=Indirect Object; DO=Direct Object;V=Verb; ERG=Ergative; DAT=Dativelanguage.
We did try to create a list from our ownknowledge of the language and grammar, and alsoby translating the list of English connectives in thePDTB.
However, when we started looking at realdata, this list proved to be incomplete.
Forexample, we discovered that the form of thecomplementizer ?ik?
also functions as a temporalsubordinator, as in (3).
(3) [ vah  baalaTI      ko   gaMdo      panaI      sao      ApnaI    caaOklaoT[he   bucket  of  dirty  water  from  his     chocolatesinakalanao          hI     vaalaa    qaa]    ik    {]sakI  mammaI       naotaking-out  just doing was]  that  {his   mother ERG]sao    raok idyaa }him stop did}?He was just going to take out the chocolates fromthe dirty water in the bucket when his mother stoppedhim.
?The method of collecting connectives willtherefore necessarily involve ?discovery duringannotation?.
However, we wanted to get someinitial ideas about what kinds of connectives werelikely to occur in real text, and to this end, welooked at 9 short stories with approximately 8000words.
Our goal here is to develop an initial set ofguidelines for annotation, which will be done onthe same corpus on which the sentence-leveldependency annotation is being carried out (seeSection 4).
Table 1 provides the full set ofconnectives we found in our texts, grouped bysyntactic type.
The first four columns give thesyntactic grouping, the Hindi connectiveexpressions, the English gloss, and the Englishequivalent expressions, respectively.
The lastcolumn gives the number of occurrences we foundof each expression.
In the rest of this section, wedescribe the function and distribution of discourseconnectives in Hindi based on our texts.
In thediscussion, we have noted our points of departurefrom the PDTB where applicable, both withrespect to the types of relations being annotated aswell as with respect to terminology.
For argumentnaming, we use the PDTB convention: the clausewith which the connective is syntacticallyassociated is called Arg2 and the other clause iscalled Arg1.
Two special conventions are followedfor paired connectives, which we describe below.In all Hindi examples in this paper, Arg1 isenclosed in square brackets and Arg2 is in braces.The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200874Connective Type Hindi Gloss English NumSub.
Conj.
@yaaoMik(@yaaoM)ik..[salaIe(Agar|yadI)..tba|tao(jaba).. tba|taojaba tk.. tba tk (ko ilae)jaOsao hI..(tao)[tnaa|eosaa..kItaikikwhy-that(why)-that..this-for(if)..then(when)..thenwhen till..then till (of for)as just..(then)so|such..thatso-thatthatbecausebecauseif..(then)whenuntilas soon asso thatso thatwhen231550251215Sentential Relatives ijasasaojaaoijasako karNawhich-withwhichwhich-of reasonbecause of whichbecause of whichbecause of which511Subordinator pr(-kr|-ko|krko)samayahueko baadsaoko phlaoko ilaemaoMko karNaupon(do)timehappeningof laterwithof beforeof forinof reasonuponafter|whilewhilewhileafterdue tobeforein order towhilebecause of9111128311413Coord.
Conj.
laoikna|pr|prntuAaOr|tqaayaayaaoM tao..prnaa kovala..balaikbutandorsuch TOP..butnot only..butbutandorbutnot only..but51117221Adverbial tbabaad maoMifr[saIilaenahIM taotBaI taosaaovahI|yahI nahIMthenlater inthenthis-fornot thenthen-only TOPsothat|this-only notthenlaterthenthat is whyotherwisethat is whysonot only that254751101TOTAL    472Table 1: A Partial List of Discourse Connectives in Hindi.
Parentheses are used for optionalelements; ?|?
is used for alternating elements; TOP = topic marker.3.1 Types of Discourse Connectives3.1.1 Subordinating ConjunctionsFinite adverbial subordinate clauses areintroduced by independent lexical items called?subordinating conjunctions?, such as @yaaoMik(?because?
), as in (4), and they typically occur asright or left attached to the main clause.
(4) [maOM   [sa  saBaI    Qana        kao       rajya      ko   baadSaah[I  this  all   wealth ACC kingdom of  kingkao      do      dota],    @yaaoMik       {vahI           samastDAT give would], why-that {he-EMPH allQartI     kI  sampda      ka  svaamaI   hO}earth  of   wealth  of   lord  is}?I would give all this wealth to the king, because healone is the lord of this whole world?s wealth.
?As the first group in Table 1 shows,subordinating conjunctions in Hindi often comepaired, with one element in the main clause andthe other in the subordinate clause (Ex.5).
Oneof these elements can also be implicit (Ex.6),The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200875and in our texts, this was most often thesubordinate clause element.
(5)  @yaaoMik       {yah   tumharI  ja,maIna   pr   imalaa     hO},      [sailaebecause {this  your  land  on  found  has}, this-for[[sa       Qana      pr  tumhara  AiQakar  hO][this treasure on  your  right  is]?Because this was found on your land, you have theright to this treasure.?
(6)  []saka  vaSa       calata]     tao    {vah   ]sao   Gar        sao[her   power  walk] then  {she  it   home  frombaahr  inakala  dotI}out  take  would}?Had it been in her power, she would have banishedit from the house.
?When both elements of the paired connective areexplicit, their text spans must be selecteddiscontinuously.
The main clause argument iscalled Arg1 and the subordinate clauseargument, Arg2.Subordinating conjunctions, whether single orpaired, can occur in non-initial positions in theirclause.
However, this word order variability isnot completely unconstrained.
First, not allconjunctions display this freedom.
For example,while ?jaba?
(?when?)
can be clause-medial (Ex.7), ?@yaaoMik?
(?because?)
cannot.
Second, when themain clause precedes the subordinate clause, themain clause element, if explicit, cannot appearclause-initially at all.
Consider the causal ?@yaaoMik..[salaIe?
(Ex.5), which represents the subordinate-main clause order.
In the reverse order, theexplicit main clause ?[salaIe?
(Ex.8) appearsclause medially.
Placing this element in clause-initial position is not possible.
(7) {lakD,haro         kI  p%naI      kao}    jaba    {yah{woodcutter of  wife DAT} when {thismaalaUma            pD,a  ik     [sa  icaiDyaa  ko   karNa,knowledge put  that this bird   of   reasonkama     CaoD,kr    Gar       Aa   gayaa     hO}   tao      [vahwork leaving home come went is} then  [she]sa    pr       barsa        pD,I].him on  anger-rain put]?When the woodcutter?s wife found out that he hadleft his work and come home to care for the bird, sheraged at him.?
(8)  [.
.
.
pr  icaraga   kI  ba%tI    ]sakanaa  yaa   daohrI[.
.
.but lamp of  light  light    or  anotherba%tI    lagaanaa]         Saayad [sailae         []icat nahIMlight  putting] perhaps this-for  [appropriate notsamaJato          qao]  ik     {tola  ka  Apvyaya   haogaa}.Consider did]  that  {oil  of  waste   be-FUT}.?.
.
.
but he did not consider it appropriate to light thelamp repeatedly or light another lamp, perhapsbecause it would be a waste of oil.
?3.1.2 Sentential Relative PronounsSince discourse relations are defined as holdingbetween eventualities, we have also identifiedrelations that are expressed syntactically asrelative pronouns in sentential relative clauses,which modify the main clause verb denoting aneventuality, rather than some entity denotingnoun phrase.
For example, in (9), aresult/purpose relation is conveyed between ?theman?s rushing home?
and ?the bird being takencare of?, and we believe that this relationbetween the eventualities should be captureddespite it?s syntactic realization as the relativepronoun ?ijasasao?
(?because of which/so that?).
(10)gives an example of a modified relativepronoun.
(9) [saara  kama     caaoD,kr     vah  ]sa    baImaar   icaiD,yaa[all  work  leaving  he  that  sick  birdkao       ]zakr       dbaa     Gar     kI    Aaor       Baagaa],ACC picking-up fast home of direction ran],ijasasao             {]saka   sahI       [laaja   ikyaa  jaa    sako}from-which {her    proper  care  do   go  able}?Leaving all his work, he picked up the bird and ranhome very fast, so that the bird could be given propercare.?
(10) [}M^TaoM       ko   hr     baar    kdma  rKnao       pr[camels of  every time step keeping uponicaiD,yaao M ko  isar     Aapsa          maoM   tqaa   }M^T      kIbirds of  head each-other in and camels ofgardna   sao    Tkra            rho     qao]   ijasako karNaneck with hit-against be had] of-which reason{]na     pixayaaoM   kI   drdBarI      caIKoM        inakla{those birds  of   painful  screams come-outrhI   qaIM}.be had}?With each step of the camels, the birds heads werehitting against each other as well as with the camels?necks because of which the birds were screamingpainfully.
?3.1.3 SubordinatorsIn contrast to the subordinating conjunctions,elements introducing non-finite subordinateclauses are called ?subordinators?.
UnlikeThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200876English, where certain non-finite subordinateclauses, called ?free adjuncts?, appear withoutany overt marking so that their relationship withthe main clause is unspecified, Hindi non-finitesubordinate clauses almost always appear withovert marking.
However, also unlike English,where the same elements may introduce bothfinite and non-finite clauses (cf.
After leaving,she caught the bus vs. After she left, she caughtthe bus), different sets of elements are used inHindi.
In fact, as can be seen in the subordinatorgroup in Table 1, the non-finite clause markersare either postpositions (Ex.11), particlesfollowing verbal participles (Ex.12), or suffixesmarking serial verbs (Ex.13).
(11) {mammaI          ko     manaa        krnao}      ko karNa     [ramaU{mummy of  warning  doing} of reason [RamuqaaoD,I  qaaoD,I    caaOklaoT      baD,o     AnaMd        ko   saaqalittle little chocolate big  pleasure  of  withKa  rha      qaa].eat being be]?Because of his mother?s warning, Ramu was eatingbits of chocolate with a lot of pleasure.?
(12) .
.
.
AaOr    {Kolato}      hue               [yah    BaUla     jaata hO.
.
.
and  {playing} happening [this forget go isik    yaid  ]saka  ima~        BaI    Apnao  iKlaaOnao    kaothat if    his   friends also their  toys     to]sao     haqa   nahIM   lagaanao         dota,  tao      ]saohim hand not   touching did,  then  heiktnaa        baura     lagata]how-much bad   feel]?.
.
.
and while playing, he forgets that if his friendstoo didn?t let him touch their toys, then how bad hewould feel.?
(13) {ApnaI  p%naI     sao     yah       sauna}kr      [lakD,hara{self  wife from this   listen}-do  [woodcutterbahut    duKI       huAa]much sad  became]?Upon hearing this from his wife, the woodcutterbecame very sad.
?While subordinators constitute a frequently-used way to mark discourse relations, theirannotation raises at least two difficult problems,both of which have implications for thereliability of annotation.
The first is that thesemarkers are used for marking both argumentclauses and adjunct clauses, so that annotatorswould be required to make difficult decisions fordistinguishing them: in the former case, themarker would not be regarded as a connective,while in the latter case, it would.
Second, theclauses marked by these connectives often seemto be semantically weak.
This is especially trueof verbal participles, which are nonfinite verbappearing in a modifying relation with anotherfinite verb.
Whereas in some cases (Ex.12-13)the two verbs are perceived as each projecting?two distinct events?
between which somediscourse relation can be said to exist, in othercases (Ex.14), the two verbs seem to project twodistinct actions but as part of a ?single complexevent?
(Verma, 1993).
These judgments can bevery subtle, however, and our final decision onwhether to annotate such constructions will bemade after some initial annotation andevaluation.
(14) {doKto        hI         doKto      saba  baOla             Baagato }{looking EMPH looking all buffalos running}hue              [gaaoSaalaa   phu^Mca     gae]happening [shed   reach  did]?Within seconds all the buffalos came running to theshed.
?The naming convention for the arguments ofsubordinators is the same as for thesubordinating conjunctions: the clauseassociated with the subordinator is called Arg2while its matrix clause is called Arg1.Unlike subordinating conjunctions,subordinators do not come paired and they canonly appear clause-finally.
Clause order, whilenot fixed, is restricted in that the nonfinitesubordinate clause can appear either before themain clause or embedded in it, but never afterthe main clause.3.1.4 Coordinating ConjunctionsCoordinating conjunctions in Hindi are found inboth inter-sentential (Ex.15) and intra-sentential(Ex.16) contexts, they always appear asindependent elements, and they almost alwaysappear clause-initially.
5  For these connectives,5 While the contrastive connectives  ?pr?, ?prntU?
appear onlyclause-initially, it seems possible for the contrastive ?laoikna?to appear clause-medially, suggesting that these two typesmay correspond to the English ?but?
and ?however?,respectively.
However, we did not find any examples ofclause-medial ?laoikna?
in our texts, and this behavior willhave to be verified with further annotation.The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200877the first clause is called Arg1 and the second,Arg2.
(15) [jaba      vah  laaOTta    tao       gaa-gaakr          ]saka  mana[when he  return then sing-singing   his  mindKuSa      kr    dotI].
laoikna  {]sakI p%naI   kao      vahhappy do gave].
But   {his wife DAT  theicaiD,yaa   fUTI    AaM^K  nahIM    sauhatI   qaI}.bird    torn  eye  not   bear  did}?Upon his return, she would make him happy bysinging.
But his wife could not tolerate the bird evena little bit.?
(16) [ tBaI          drvaaja,a      Kulaa]  AaOr    {maalaikna  Aa[then-only door opened]  and  {wife  comega[- }.went}?Just then the door opened and the wife came in.
?We also recognize paired coordinatingconjunctions, such as ?naa kovala..balaik?
(See Table1).
The argument naming convention for these isthe same as for the single conjunctions.3.1.5 Discourse AdverbialsDiscourse adverbials in Hindi modify their clau-ses as independent elements, and some of theseare free to appear in non-initial positions in theclause.
Example (17) gives an example of theconsequence adverb, ?saao?.
The Arg2 of discourseadverbials is the clause they modify, whereasArg1 is the other argument.
(17) [icaiD,yaa  jabaana      kT   jaanao     AaOr   maalaikna  ko  eosao[bird    tongue  cut  going  and  wife  of  thisvyavahar       sao      Dr   ga[-     qaI].
saao    {vah     iksaIbehavior with fear go  had].
So  {she  sometrh        ]D,kr    calaI        ga[-}.manner flying  walk    went}.
?The bird was scared due to her tongue being cut andbecause of the wife?s behavior.
So she somehow flewaway.
?As with the PDTB, one of our goals with theHindi discourse annotation is to explore thestructural distance of Arg1 from the discourseadverbial.
If the Arg1 clause is found to be snon-adjacent to the connective and the Arg2 clause,it may suggest that adverbials in Hindi behaveanaphorically.
In the texts we looked at, we didnot find any instances of non-adjacent Arg1s.Addtional annotation will provide furtherevidence in this regard.4 Hindi Sentence-level AnnotationandDiscourse ConnectivesThe sentence-level annotation task in Hindi isan ongoing effort which aims to come up with adependency annotated treebank for the NLP/CLcommunity working on Indian languages.Presently a million word Hindi corpus is beingmanually annotated (Begum et al, 2008).
Thedependency annotation is being done on top ofthe corpus which has already been marked forPOS tag and chunk information.
The scheme has28 tags which capture various dependencyrelations.
These relations are largely inspired bythe Paninian grammatical framework.
Givenbelow are some relations, reflecting theargument structure of the verb.a) kta- (agent) (k1)b) kma- (theme) (k2)c) krNa (instrument) (k3)d) samp`dana sampradaan (recipient) (k4)e) Apadana (source) (k5)f) AiQakrNa (location) (k7)Figure 1 shows how Examples (2a-f) arerepresented in the framework.
Note that agentand theme are rough translations for ?kta-?
and?kma-?
respectively.
Unlike thematic roles, theserelations are not purely semantic, and aremotivated not only through verbal semantics butalso through vibhaktis (postpositions) and TAM(Tense, aspect and modality) markers (Bharati etal., 1995).
The relations are therefore syntactico-semantic, and unlike thematic roles there is agreater binding between these relations and thesyntactic cues.k1 k4 k2Figure 1: Dependency Diagram for Example (2)Some discourse relations that we have identifiedare already clearly represented in the sentence-level annotation.
But for those that aren?t, thedImalaya    samaIr    iktabaThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200878discourse level annotations will enrich thesentence-level.
In the rest of this section, wediscuss the representation of the different typesof connectives at the sentence level, and discusshow the discourse annotation will add to theinformation present in the dependencystructures.Subordinating Conjunctions Subordinatingconjunctions are lexically represented in thedependency tree, taking the subordinating clauseas their dependents while themselves attachingto the main verb (the root of the tree).
Figure 2shows the dependency tree for Example (4)containing the subordinating conjunction ?
@yaaoMik?.Note that the edge between the connective andthe main verb gives us the causal relationbetween the two clauses, the relation label being?rh?
(relation hetu ?cause?).
Thus, the discourselevel can be taken to be completely representedat the sentence-level.hEk1 k2 k4 rhccofr6k1sk1r6r6Figure 2: Dependency Tree for SubordinatingConjunction in Example (4)Paired Subordinating Conjunctions UnlikeExample (4), however, the analysis for thepaired connective in Example (5), given inFigure 3, is insufficient.
Despite the lexicalrepresentation of the connective in the tree, thecorrect interpretation of the paired conjunctionand the clauses which it relates is only possibleat the discourse level.
In particular, thedependencies don?t show that ?@yaaoMik?
and ?
[salaIe?are two parts of the same connective, expressinga single relation and taking the same twoarguments.
Thus, the discourse annotation willbe able to provide the appropriate argumentstructure and semantics for these pairedconnectives.ccofk2 k1 rhccofk7pr6k1Figure 3: Dependency Tree for PairedSubordinating Conjunction in Example (5)Subordinators As mentioned earlier, Hindinonfinite subordinate clauses almost alwaysappear with overt marking.
But unlike thesubordinating conjunctions, subordinators arenot lexically represented in the dependencytrees.
Figure 4 gives the dependencyrepresentation for Example (11) containing apostposition subordinator ?ko karNa?, which relatesthe main and subordinate clauses causally.
Asthe figure shows, while the causal relation label(?rh?)
appears on the edge between the main andsubordinate verbs, the subordinator itself is notlexically represented as the mediator of thisrelation.
The lexically grounded annotation atthe discourse level will thus provide the textualanchors of such relations, enriching thedependency representation.
Furthermore, whilemany of the subordinators in Table 1 are fullyspecified in the dependency trees for thesemantic relation they denote (e.g., ?pr?
and ?maoM?marked as the ?k7t?
(location in time) relation,and ?ko karNa?
and ?sao?
marked as the ?rh?
(cause/reason) relation), others, like the particle?hue?
are underspecified for their semantics, beingmarked only as ?vmod?
(verbal modifier).
Thediscourse-level annotation will thus be thesource for the semantics of these subordinators.Coordinating Conjunctions Coordinatingconjunctions at the sentence level anchor theroot of the dependency tree.
Figure 5 shows thedo dotao oo oo omaOMOM O MO M   Qana   baadSaah    @yaaoMikoM oMoMrajyavahI   svaamaIsampdaQartI[sailaeAiQakar hOO OOQana  tuuuumhara  @yaaoMikoMoMo Mimalaa hOO OOyahja,maIna, ,,tumharIuuuThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200879dependency representation of Example (16)containing a coordinating conjunction.rh k1 k2vmodk1Figure 4: Dependency Tree for Subordinator inExample (11)ccof ccofk7t k1 k1Figure 5: Dependency Tree for CoordinatingConjunction in Example (16)While the sentence-level dependency analysishere is similar to the one we get at the discourselevel, the semantics of these conjunctions areagain underspecified, being all marked as ?ccof?,and can be obtained from the discourse level.Discourse Adverbials Like subordinatingconjunctions, discourse adverbials arerepresented lexically in the dependency tree.They are attached to the verb of their clause asits child node and their denoted semanticrelation is specified clearly.
This can be seenwith the temporal adverb ?tBaI?
(?then-only?)
andits semantic label ?k7t?
in Figure 5.
At the sametime, since the Arg1 discourse argument ofadverbials is most often in the prior context, thediscourse annotation will enrich the semantics ofthese connectives by providing the Arg1argument.5 Summary and Future WorkIn this paper, we have described our study ofdiscourse connectives in a small corpus of Hinditexts in an effort towards developing anannotated corpus of discourse relations in Hindi.Adopting the lexically grounded approach of thePenn Discourse Treebank, we have identified awide range of connectives, analyzing their typesand distributions, and discussing some of theissues involved in the annotation.
We alsodescribed the representation of the connectivesin the sentence-level dependency annotationbeing carried out independently for Hindi, anddiscussed how the discourse annotations canenrich the information provided at the sentencelevel.
While we focused on explicit connectivesin this paper, future work will investigate theannotation of implicit connectives, the semanticclassification of connectives, and the attributionof connectives and their arguments.ReferencesRafiya Begum, Samar Husain, Arun Dhwaj, DiptiMisra Sharma, Lakshmi Bai, and Rajeev Sangal.2008.
Dependency annotation scheme for Indianlanguages.
In Proceedings of IJCNLP-2008.Hyderabad, India.Akshar Bharati, Vineet Chaitanya, and RajeevSangal.
1995.
Natural Language Processing: APaninian Perspective.
Prentice Hall of India.http://ltrc.iiit.ac.in/downloads/nlpbook/nlppanini.pdf.Manindra K. Verma (ed.).
1993.
Complex Predicatesin South Asian Languages.
New Delhi: Manohar.The PDTB-Group.
2006.
The Penn DiscourseTreeBank 1.0 Annotation Manual.
TechnicalReport IRCS-06-01, IRCS, University ofPennsylvania.Bonnie Webber, Aravind Joshi, Matthew Stone, andAlistair Knott.
2003.
Anaphora and discoursestructure.
Computational Linguistics, 29(4):545?587.Nianwen Xue.
2005.
Annotating DiscourseConnectives in the Chinese Treebank.
InProceedings of the ACL Workshop on Frontiers inCorpus Annotation II: Pie in the Sky.
Ann Arbor,Michigan.Deniz Zeyrek and Bonnie Webber.
2008.
ADiscourse Resource for Turkish: AnnotatingDiscourse Connectives in the METU Corpus.
InProceedings of IJCNLP-2008.
Hyderabad, India.Ka rha qaamanaa krnaoo oo rama   caaOO OOklaoTooo    AanaMdMMMmammaIAaOrOOOKulaauuu   Aa ga[-- --maalaikna  drvaaja,a, ,,   tBaIThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200880
