Proceedings of the IJCNLP-08 Workshop on NLP for Less Privileged Languages, pages 113?116,Hyderabad, India, January 2008. c?2008 Asian Federation of Natural Language ProcessingIndigenous Languages of Indonesia: Creating Language Resourcesfor Language PreservationHammam RizaIPTEKNETAgency for the Assessment andApplication of Technology (BPPT)Jakarta, Indonesiahammam@iptek.net.idAbstractIn this paper, we report a survey of lan-guage resources in Indonesia, primarily ofindigenous languages.
We look at the offi-cial Indonesian language (Bahasa Indone-sia) and 726 regional languages of Indone-sia (Bahasa Nusantara) and list all theavailable lexical resources (LRs) that wecan gathered.
This paper suggests that thesmaller regional languages may remainrelatively unstudied, and unknown, butthey are still worthy of our attention.
Vari-ous LRs of these endangered languages arebeing built and collected by regional lan-guage centers for study and its preserva-tion.
We will also briefly report its pres-ence on the Internet.1 IntroductionIt is not hard to get a picture of just how linguisti-cally diverse Indonesia is.
There are 726 languagesin the country; making it the world?s second mostdiverse, after Papua New Guinea which has 823local languages (Mart?
et al, 2005:48).
Indonesiaalso has a high ratio of languages to speakers ineach major region in Indonesia (see Figure 1).
Di-versity is the outcome of processes of languagechange (Schendl, 2001).
The loss of language isitself a process that will logically result in mono-lingualism.It is not uncommon to find the attitude amongthe general public and even among some Indone-sian linguists that the process of language endan-germent or language extinction is not somethingthat needs worried about, that it is part of a naturalprocess that should be left to take its course.
Thispaper suggests otherwise.
The smaller regionallanguages may remain relatively unstudied, andunknown, but they are still worthy of our attention(Lauder, 2007).
This paper puts forward a numberof claims that have been made in favour of linguis-tic diversity and how we can preserve this diver-sity.Figure 1.
Ratio of Population to Languagesacross IndonesiaThe languages of Indonesia are part of a com-plex linguistic situation that is generally seen ascomprised of three categories: Indonesian lan-guage, the regional indigenous languages, and for-eign languages (Alwi and Sugono, 2000).
Most ofthese regional languages have not received atten-tion for computerization; they are less privilegelanguages that need to be brought into digitaliza-tion.113If we were to create NLP system for these lan-guages, we will face one of the major obstacles,i.e.
the amount of linguistic knowledge.
Languageanalysis and generation require a complete set oflexical, grammatical, semantic and world knowl-edge to carry out accurate function.
On the otherhand, these types of knowledge bases are hard toacquire and considerable attention has to be paid tothe role that corpus and lexical resources can play.2 The Indigenous Languages and Its En-dangermentThe indigenous languages of Indonesia - also re-ferred to as vernaculars or provincial languages,collectively called as Bahasa Nusantara - exhibitsgreat variation in numbers of speakers.
Thirteen ofthem have a million or more speakers, accountingfor 69.91% of the total population.
These lan-guages are Javanese (75,200,000 speakers), Sun-danese (27,000,000), Malay (20,000,000),Madurese (13,694,000), Minangkabau (6,500,000),Batak (5,150,000), Bugisnese (4,000,000), Bali-nese (3,800,000), Acehnese (3,000,000), Sasak(2,100,000), Makasarese (1,600,000), Lampungese(1,500,000), and Rejang (1,000,000) (Lauder,2004).Figure 2.
Major Indigenous LanguagesThe remaining 713 languages have a total popu-lation of only 41.4 million speakers, and the major-ity of these have very small numbers of speakers.For example, 386 languages are spoken by 5,000or less; 233 have 1,000 speakers or less; 169 lan-guages have 500 speakers or less; and 52 have 100or less (Gordon, 2005).
These languages are facingvarious degrees of language endangerment (Crys-tal, 2000).There is evidence from census data over threedecades that the growth in the numbers of speakersof Indonesian is reducing the numbers of speakersof the indigenous languages (Lauder, 2005).
Con-cerns that this kind of growth would give Indone-sian the potential to replace the regional languageswere aired as early as the 1980s.
(Poedjosoedarmo,1981; Alisjahbana, 1984).These languages tend to be spoken in the easternor more remote parts of the country.
Their smallpopulations of speakers make them vulnerable toprocesses of unhealthy language change and lan-guage endangerment.
Greatest language diversityis found in eastern part of Indonesia (Papua)A language that does not have official status, butwhich has a large enough number of speakers andwhich are being safely transmitted to new genera-tions can usually be classified as either NOT EN-DANGERED (SAFE or VIABLE), or POTEN-TIALLY ENDANGERED.
This would include the13 largest local languages and perhaps a few doz-ens of others.However, this does not apply to the majority ofthe remaining 700 or so languages.
Among them,there should also be many which could be classi-fied as VIABLE BUT SMALL or ENDANGEREDbecause they have small numbers of speakers, aresocially or economically disadvantaged and theyare not being transmitted to younger generations ofspeakers.
There will also be many of these regionallanguages which can be classified as SERIOUSLYENDANGERED or MORIBUND (NEARLY EX-TINCT) because the speaker populations are verysmall and these few remaining speakers are mostlyold.When trying to estimate the degree of endan-germent of the regional languages in Indonesia, itbecomes apparent that there is a singular lack offocused and comprehensive research.
However, inspite of this, based on a consideration of the vari-ous possible causes, there are good reasons to sus-pect that many of the smaller languages in Indone-sia are indeed endangered.3 Preserving Endangered LanguagesWithin Indonesia, and globally, we are currentlyexperiencing a massive and rapid loss of languageand culture.
In particular, the languages and cul-tures of communities with very few speakers havepractically no chance of survival beyond the end of114this century and many will disappear much sooner,perhaps within the next 10 to 20 years.The loss of these languages is largely because oflinguistic and cultural assimilation with the major-ity group, with migration to the cities and lack ofsupport for these languages in state education be-ing important factors.
This is particularly true inIndonesia, where Bahasa Indonesia is being taughtin school and the indigenous languages are loosingtheir ground in the daily life.Each language is part of patterns of diversitythat have evolved over millennia.
There are anumber of reasons why diversity is beneficial.
Forexample, by learning from the original languageswe increase our stock of human wisdom.
Diversitybreeds diversity; the seeding of insights in thefields of science, art and literature.Meanwhile, the problem is urgent.
A language isbeing lost on average every two weeks worldwide.When an oral language is lost, it takes with it allthe knowledge that the people possessed.
When thelast speaker dies, there is likely to be no trace at allof their existence.
There will be no artifacts orphysical record to reconstruct the language or theknowledge it encoded.
As each language dies, welose data for philosophers, anthropologists, folklor-ists, historians, psychologists, linguists, and writ-ers.
The loss of one is a tragedy; what do we callthe loss of a large proportion of the 6,000 existinglanguages?
(Crystal, 2000: 53).
The loss of diver-sity is something that we need to do somethingabout.Two kinds of action can be taken, depending onthe status of the language.
But to know what thestatus of languages is, a survey needs to be made togather information for all the regional languagesconcerning the factors that are usually the causesof language loss or language maintenance, such asnumbers of speakers, language attitudes, and so on.As a result, estimates can be made about which arelikely to survive and which not.
From this, an ac-tion plan can be set up based on priorities.Of the 13 major indigenous languages, thereonly are 7 languages presence on the Internet underthe ccTLD .id (Riza 2006).
We need to explorefurthermore to map the remaining regional lan-guages that probably exist on the Internet.
The is-sue of ?digital language divide?
has shown thatmany of the indigenous language do not have ac-cess to Information and Communication Technol-ogy (ICT) in general; hence they are lacking theprocess of digitalization.
The relationship betweenlanguages on the Internet and diversity of languagewithin a country indicates that even with a global-ize network, nation states have a role to play inencouraging language diversity in cyberspace.Language diversity can be viewed as much withina country as within the Internet as a whole.For languages which are not seriously endan-gered or moribund, language maintenance and lan-guage revitalization programs should be put inplace.
These programs include creating LRs thatwould involve the people themselves to providethem with NLP toolkit and language computeriza-tion to help keep the language alive.
For seriouslyendangered languages, those that cannot possiblybe saved, LRs creation should be set up.
Theseprograms would involve study, documentation andthe assembly of a rich archive of materials that willhelp to preserve as much as possible of the lan-guage and way of life in digital and other formats.We have identified three important tasks in lan-guage preservation.
The first is the exploitation ofcurrent techniques from computational linguisticsto permit a multidimensional view of the LRs.
Thesecond is the increasing orientation of the regionalresearch centers towards the creation and use ofresources of various sorts, either to extract usefulinformation or directly as components in systems.The third, related, trend is towards statistical orempirical models of language especially if the lan-guage is near extinction and found only as spokenlanguage.In cases where the indigenous languages existonly in the form of spoken language, there shouldbe a collection efforts similar to the work carriedout by ELRA on the Basic Language Resource Kit(ELDA, 2007) and LDC on Less CommonlyTaught Languages (LCTL, 2007).
Both initiativesfocus on the minimal sets of LRs required develop-ing basic research for a given language.
It is crucialto connect the preservation work to this languagekit in order to be shared with the language researchcommunity.In Indonesia, over the last few years, there hasbeen an increasing awareness of the importance ofcorpus resources in language preservation.
As re-gional leaders begin to consider the implications ofloosing their indigenous assets, considerable atten-tion is being aid to the role that corpus and lexicalresources can play.115Masyarakat Linguistik Indonesia (MLI) is agroup of institutions, organizations and corpora-tion, working together on mutually defined goalsand projects that seek to provide a specification ofLRs of all languages of Indonesia.
It is currently inthe process of mapping indigenous written lan-guages of Indonesia (540 of languages).MLI also help members to use the specificationfor NLP tools and applications; find the best meansto disseminate the specifications, tools and applica-tions and encourage an open standard-based ap-proach to the creation and interchange of LRs.
Italso demonstrate how MLI can be applied throughmaking the results of collaborative endeavorsavailable to wider associations; provide training,awareness and educational events and share witheach other their work on related issues.4 ConclusionA perspective on preservation of the languages ofIndonesia is given together with a brief overviewof some of the indigenous languages, which arebeing actively researched today by national lan-guage centers throughout Indonesia.Culture and language are fundamental humanrights; it is our right and duty to preserve and de-velop them.
This is an ethical choice, not simply ascientific one or one based on political or eco-nomic expediency.
Total lack of concern and inac-tion may seem to some to be a rational choice butit represents an ethical failure.
In addition, researchwhich merely documents an endangered languagebut does nothing to help the community of the in-formants is like the photographer who takes a pic-ture of someone in difficulty but do nothing to helpthem.
Any delay now will mean that many of thelanguages which are still around now won?t bethere for them to do something about.
Diversitywill have been lost.We have identified three important tasks in lan-guage preservation, which is the exploitation ofcomputational linguistics, increasing orientation ofthe regional research centers towards the creationand use of resources and using towards statisticalor empirical models of language.The current effort of documenting the indige-nous languages will be shared with the rest of theworld, to close ?digital language divide?.ReferencesAlisjahbana, S. T. 1984.
The problem of minority lan-fguages in the overall linguistic problems of our time.In Linguistic Minorities and Literacy: Language Pol-icy Issues in Developing Countries, ed.
F. Coulmas.Berlin: Mouton.Alwi, Hasan, and Sugono, Dendy.
2000.
From NationalLanguage Politics to National Language Policy.
Pro-cedings of the Seminar on Language Politics, JakartaELDA.
2007.
Basic Language Resource Kit (Blark).ELRA Project, http://www.elda.org/blark/index.phpCrystal, David.
2000.
Language Death.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Gordon, Raymond G., Jr. ed.
2005.
Ethnologue: Lan-guages of the World, Fifteenth edition.
Dallas, Tex.
:SIL International.Lauder, Multamia RMT.
2005.
Language Treasures inIndonesia.
In Words and Worlds : World LanguagesReview, eds.
F?lix Mart?
et al, 95-97.
Clevedon[England] ; Buffalo [N.Y.]: Multilingual Matters.Lauder, Allan F. 2007.
Indigenous Languages in Indo-nesia: Diversity and Endangerment.
In Proceedingsof Kongres Linguistik Nasional XII, Surakarta, 3-6September.LCTL, 2007.
Less Commonly Taught Language Pro-ject.
http://projects.ldc.upenn.edu/LCTL/index.htmlMart?, F?lix, et.al.
eds.
2005.
Words and Worlds : WorldLanguages Review.
vol.
52.
Bilingual Education andBilingualism.
Clevedon.
England.Mikami, Y., Zavarsky, et.al.
2005.
The Language Ob-servatory Project (LOP), www2005, Proceedings,Chiba, Japan, 990-991.Poedjosoedarmo, S. 1981.
Problems of Indonesian.
InLanguage and Nation Building, ed.
Amran Halim.Jakarta: Center for Language Development.Riza, H, et.
al.
2006.
Indonesian Languages Diversityon the Internet, Internet Governance Forum (IGF),Athens.Schendl, Herbert.
2001.
Historical linguistics.
OxfordIntroductions to Language Study.
Oxford: OxfordUniversity Press.Wurm, S. A.
1998.
Methods of language maintenanceand revival, with selected cases of language endan-germent in the world.
The International Symposiumon Endangered Languages, Tokyo, 18-20 November1995), ed.
Kazuto Matsumura, 191-211.
Tokyo: Hi-tuzi Syobo.116
