The Link Structure of Language Communities and its Implication forLanguage-specific CrawlingRizza Camus CamineroLanguage ObservatoryNagaoka University of TechnologyNagaoka, Niigata, Japanrhyze.caminero@gmail.comYoshiki MikamiLanguage ObservatoryNagaoka University of TechnologyNagaoka, Niigata, Japanmikami@kjs.nagaokaut.ac.jpAbstractSince its inception, the World Wide Web(WWW) has exponentially grown to shelterbillions of monolingual and multilingualweb pages that can be navigated throughhyperlinks.
Its structural properties provideuseful information in presenting the socio-linguistic properties of the web.
In thisstudy, about 26 million web pages underthe South East Asian country code top-level-domains (ccTLDs) are analyzed, sev-eral language communities are identified,and the graph structure of these communi-ties are analyzed.
The distance betweenlanguage communities are calculated by adistance metrics based on the number ofoutgoing links between web pages.
Inter-mediary languages are identified by graphanalysis.
By creating a language subgraph,the size and diameter of its strongly-connected components are derived, as thesevalues are useful parameters for language-specific crawling.
Performing a link struc-ture analysis of the web pages can be a use-ful tool for socio-linguistic and technicalresearch purposes.1 IntroductionThe World Wide Web contains interlinked docu-ments, called web pages, navigable by hyperlinks.Since its creation, it has grown to contain billionsof web pages and several billion hyperlinks.
Theseweb pages are created by millions of people fromall parts of the world.
Each web page contains alarge amount of information that can be shared anddisseminated to people with Internet access.
Au-thors and creators of a web page come from differ-ent backgrounds, different cultures, and differentlanguages.
Thus, a web page is a resource of multi-lingual content, and a fertile source for socio-linguistic analysis.1.1 Web CrawlingWhile search-engines are important means of ac-cessing the web for most users, automated systemsof retrieving information from the web have beendeveloped.
These systems are called web crawlers,where a software agent is given a list of pages tovisit.
As the crawler visits these pages, it followstheir outgoing links and adds these to the list ofpages to visit.
Each page is visited recursively ac-cording to some sets of policies (e.g.
the type ofpages to retrieve, direction, the maximum depthfrom the URL (uniform resource locator), etc.
).The result of this crawl is a vast amount of data,most of which may be irrelevant to certain indi-viduals.
Thus, a focused-crawling approach wasimplemented by some systems to limit the searchto only a subset of the web.Focused crawlers rely on classifiers to work ef-fectively.
Language-specific crawlers, for example,need a very good language identification modulethat properly identifies the language of the webpages.
General crawlers can be extended to includefocused-crawling capabilities by incorporating theclassifiers.
Another important requirement to effi-ciently crawl the desired domain is the list of initialweb pages, called seed URLs.
Each of these URLswill be enqueued into a list.
The agent visits eachURL in the list.
Since the crawler recursively visitsThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200849the outgoing links of each URL, it is possible thatthe seed URL is an outgoing link of another seedURL, or an outgoing link of an outgoing link ofanother seed URL.
Listing these URLs as seedURLs will just waste the crawler?s time in visitingthem, when they have already been visited.
If sev-eral URLs can be reached from just one URL, theseed URL list size will decrease and the crawlerwill be more efficient.
However, the maximumdistance between these web pages must also beconsidered, since the crawler can have a policy tostop the crawling after reaching a certain depth.1.2 The Web as GraphA graph consists of a set of nodes, denoted by Vand a set of edges, denoted by E. Each edge is apair of nodes (u, v) representing a connection be-tween u and v. A path between two nodes is a se-quence of edges that is passed through from onenode to reach the other node.In a directed graph, each edge is an ordered pairof nodes.
A path from u to v does not imply a pathfrom v to u.
The distance between any two nodes isthe number of edges in a shortest path connectingthem.
The diameter of the graph is the maximumdistance between any two nodes.In an undirected graph, each edge is an unor-dered pair of nodes.
There is an edge between uand v if there is a link between u and v, regardlessof which node is the source of the link.A strongly-connected component (SCC) of a di-rected graph is a set of nodes such that for any pairof nodes u and v in the set, there is a path from u tov.
The strongly-connected components of a graphconsist of disjoint sets of nodes.
A subgraph is agraph whose nodes and edges are subsets of an-other graph.With the interlinked nature of the web, it can berepresented as a graph, with the web pages as thenodes and the edges as the hyperlinks between thepages.1.3 LanguagesLanguages are expressions of individuals andgroups of individuals, essential to all form ofcommunication.
It is a fundamental medium ofexpressing one?s self whether in spoken or writtenform.
Ehtnologue (2005) lists 6,912 known livinglanguages in the world.
Only a small portion ofthese languages can be found in the web today.A language community in the web is the groupof web pages written in a language.
Major lan-guage communities discovered in each countryindicates the dominant language of the country?sweb space.
How one language community is re-lated to another language community can be shownby analyzing the hyperlinks between them.
Thus, alanguage graph can be created with the languagecommunities as nodes, and the links between thelanguage communities as edges.2 Previous StudiesOne of the earliest web survey in Asia (Ciolek,1998) presented statistical data of the Asian webspace by using the Altavista WWW search enginein gathering its data.
In 2001, he wrote a paper pre-senting the trends in the volume of hyperlinks con-necting websites in 10 Eash Asian countries.Several studies have also been done regardingthe representation of the web as a graph.
Kumar etal.
(2000) showed that a graph can be induced bythe hyperlinks between pages.
Measures on theconnected component sizes and diameter were pre-sented to show the high-level structure of the web.Broder et al (2000) did experiments on the web ona larger scale and showed the web?s macroscopicstructure consisting of the SCC, IN, OUT, andTENDRILS.
Balakrishnan and Deo (2006) ob-served that the number of edges grow superlinearlywith the number of nodes, showing the degree dis-tributions and diameter.
Petricek et al (2006) usedweb graph structural metrics to measure propertiessuch as the distance between two random pagesand interconnectedness of e-government websites.Bharat et al (2001) studied the macro-structure ofthe web, showing the linkage between web sites bycreating the ?hostgraph?, with the nodes represent-ing the hosts and the edges as the count of hyper-links between pages on the corresponding hosts.Chakrabarti et al (1999) proposed a new ap-proach to topic-specific web resource discovery bycreating a focused crawler that selectively retrievesweb pages relevant to a pre-defined set of topics.Stamatakis et al (2003) created CROSSMARC, afocused web crawler that collects domain-specificweb pages.
Deligenti et al (2000) presented a fo-cused crawling algorithm that builds a model forthe context within which relevant pages to a topicoccur on the web.
Pingali et al (2006) created anIndian search engine with a language identificationThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200850module that returns a language only if the numberof words in a web page are above a given thresholdvalue.
The web pages were transliterated first intoUTF-8 encoding.
Tamura et al (2007) presented asimulation study of language specific crawling andproposed a method for selectively collecting webpages written in a specific language by doing alinguistic graph analysis of real web data, and thentransforming them into variation of link selectionstrategies.Despite several studies on web graph and lan-guage-specific crawling, no study has been doneshowing the ?language graph?.
Herring et al(2007) showed a study on language networks of aselected web community, LiveJournal, but not onthe web as a whole.3 Scope and Objectives of the StudyThis research was conducted on the 10 ccTLDs ofthe South East Asian countries.
This paper, how-ever, will only show the results for the Indonesiandomain (.id).This research aims to show the socio-linguisticproperties of the language communities in eachcountry at the macroscopic level.
The web pagedistribution for each language community in agiven ccTLD and its most frequently linked to lan-guages are shown.
The distance is also computedand the language graph is illustrated.This research also aims to show the graph prop-erties of some Filipino language communities andits implication for crawling.
Graph properties likethe SCC size and the diameter will be presented toshow these characteristics in a subset of the web.Finally, this research demonstrates the useful-ness of graph analysis approaches.4 MethodologyThis study was conducted by performing a seriesof steps from the collection of data to the presenta-tion of the results through images.4.1 UbiCrawlerUbiCrawler (Boldi et al, 2004) was used todownload the web pages under the Asian ccTLDs.These pages were downloaded primarily for thepurpose of assessing the usage level of eachlanguage in cyberspace, one of the objectives ofthe Language Observatory Project (LOP) 1 .
Thecrawl was started on July 5, 2006, running for 14days.
107,168,733 web pages were collected from43 ccTLDs in Asia.
Each page contains severalinformation such as the character set and outgoinglinks.
For this study, the URL of a web page andthe URL of its outgoing links were used.
Althoughthere are many web pages of Asia that can befound in generic domains, they were not includedin this survey to limit the volume of the crawl data.4.2 Language IdentificationA language identification module (LIM) developedfor LOP based on the n-gram method (Suzuki et al,2002) was used to identify on what language apage is written in.
This method first creates bytesequences for each training text of a language.
Itthen checks the byte sequences of the web pagesthat match the byte sequences of the training texts.The language having the highest matching rate isconsidered as the language of the web page.
Thelanguage identification module used the parallelcorpus of the Universal Declaration of HumanRights (UDHR), translated into several languages.After crawling, LIM was executed to identify thelanguages of each downloaded web page.
Theidentification result was stored in a LIM result filethat contains the URL, the language, and matchingrate, among others.
In this study, the issuesregarding the accuracy of LIM will not bediscussed.4.3 Web Page AnalysisFor this study, the web pages of the 10 South EastAsian ccTLDs were selected for analysis.
Therewere 26,196,823 web pages downloaded underthese ccTLDs.
The web pages for each countrywere grouped by languages.
The list of languageswas narrowed down to 20 based on the number ofpages, arranged from highest to lowest.The link structure can be analyzed by traversingthe outgoing links of each web page.
For each webpage, its outgoing links are retrieved.
For each out-going link, the LIM result file is checked for itslanguage.
The number of outgoing links in eachlanguage is counted.
If the URL of the outgoinglink is not on the file, it wasn?t downloaded.
There-fore, the language of the ougoing link is unidenti-fied.
This is usually the case of outgoing links un-1 http://www.language-observatory.orgThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200851der the generic TLDs (e.g., .com, .org, .gov, etc.
)and non-Asian ccTLDs.4.4 Language GraphThere is a link between two languages if there is atleast one outgoing link from a web page in onelanguage to the other language.
The languagegraph is created through contraction procedure,where all edges linking the same language page arecontracted.4.5 Language Adjacency MatrixBased on the number of web pages in a languageand the number of outgoing links from one lan-guage to another, the language adjacency table Nfor each country is created.
The row and columnheaders are the same ?
the top 20 languages basedon the number of web pages.
The value Nij is thenumber of outgoing links from language i to lan-guage j.The language adjacency matrix P contains theratio of the number of outgoing links and the totalnumber of outgoing links as can be found in thelanguage adjacency table.
Each cell value, Pij is theprobability that a web page in a language i has anoutgoing link to language j.?=kikijij NNP /A link from language i to language j is not nec-essarily accompanied by a link from language j to i.Even if there is a link, the number of outgoinglinks is not equal.
To show the relationship be-tween two languages based on the link structure,the language distance is computed.4.6 Distance between LanguagesThe distance between two languages measurestheir level of connectedness.
It is the relationshipbetween the number of outgoing links from lan-guage i to language j and vice versa.
The distanceis computed as the ratio of the number of outgoinglinks between two languages and the total numberof outgoing links of the two languages.The distance between language i and language j,Dij is, ( ) ??
?+= ijij R1/D  where Rij is the lan-guage link ratio is defined as,( ) ??????
++= ?
?kjkikkjiijij NNNNR /   for (i ?
j)1=ijR     for (i = j)where ?
is an adjusting parameter introduced toavoid division-by-zero, which may happen whenRij=0, i.e.
no links between two languages.
We set?=0.0001.
Thus, the maximum distance betweenlanguages becomes 99. ?
is another adjusting pa-rameter to make Dij as a distance metrics, and weset ?=1.
Assumption behind this definition is basedon commonly-observed rules in our world.
It iswidely observed that interaction between two ob-jects is proportional to the inverse square of dis-tance between two objects.
The number of weblinks between two language communities is con-sidered as a kind of interaction.
Languages with nolinks between them have a distance of 99, and thedistance of a language to itself is 0.Based on this distance metrics, the macroscopiclanguage graph is created.
A distance limit of 15 isused to clearly show which languages are closely-related by their link structure.4.7 Intermediary LanguagesConsidering the direction of the outgoing links, thepossibility that language i will link to language jmay be lesser than the possibility that language iwill link to language j by passing through an in-termediary language k, such that PikPkj > Pij.
Theintermediary language is identified, as this wouldmean that there are better ways to reach anotherlanguage from one language.4.8 Graph Analysis using JGraphTJGraphT is a free Java graph library that providesgraph objects and algorithms.
The library providesclasses that calculates and returns the strongly-connected components subgraphs.
To compute thedistance between nodes, several graph searchingalgorithms are available, one of which is the Dijik-stra algorithm that computes for the shortest path.A utility to export the graph into a format readableby most graph visualization tools is also available.A graph file, written in the DOT language (a plaintext graph description language) was created, con-taining the nodes and edges of language pages.From this, the strongly-connected components andits properties (i.e.
size, diameter) were determined.4.9 GraphVis: Visualization ToolGraphViz is open-source graph visualizationsoftware that takes descriptions of graphs in asimple text language and makes diagrams inThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200852several formats, including images.
The neatolayout, which makes ?spring model?
layouts, wasused to visualize the distance between languages.However, the calculated distance cannot be drawnexactly, and this visualization is only two-dimensional.
So, the images are distorted and donot illustrate the exact distance, only anapproximation.5 ResultsThis section shows some results on the Indonesiandomain.5.1 Link StructureIndonesia is a country with one of the biggest lan-guage diversity in the world.
According to Eth-nologue2, 742 languages are spoken in the country.But, the LIM results show that only five of theselanguages are listed in the top 10 languages in thecountry, i.e., Javanese, Indonesian, Malay, Sun-danese, and Madurese.No.
Language # of Pages # of Outgo-ing Links1 Javanese (jav)797,300(28.01%)33,411,032(27.20%)2 English (eng)743,457(26.11%)16,645,014(13.55%)3 Indonesian (ind)516,528(18.14%)20,783,793(16.92%)4 Thai (tha)218,453(7.67%)8,952,101(7.29%)5 Malay (mly)197,535(3.47%)4,990,402(4.06%)6 Sundanese (sun)98,835(3.47%)5,349,194(4.35%)7 Luxemburg3(ltz)43,376(1.52%)2,307,602(1.88%)8 Occitan4(lnc)27,663(0.97%)351,318(0.29%)9 Madurese (mad)22,121(0.78%)777,903(0.63%)10 Tatar (tat)20,709(0.73%)3,334,651(2.71%)Others 160,917  (5.65%)25,930,885(21.11%)Total 2,846,894 122,833,898Table 1.
LIM result for Indonesian Domain2 Gordon, Raymond G., Jr.
(ed.
), 2005.
Ethnologue: Lan-guages of the World, Fifteenth edition.
Dallas, Tex.
: SIL In-ternational.3 Luxembourgish4 Occitan LanguidocienJavanese is the most popular language in theweb space of Indonesia, and constitutes 28% of thetotal number of web pages.
It is followed by Eng-lish and Indonesian.
Although Indonesian is anofficial language of the country, it is ranked third.English, a major business language of Indonesia,has the second largest number of web pages in thedomain.
But, Indonesian occupies the second rankin the number of outgoing links.No.
Language Languages Linked to (# of outgoing links)Javanese  Javanese (22,641,844) 1 (jav) Indonesian (3,761,205)English  English (11,036,726) 2 (eng) Javanese (1,443,054)Indonesian  Indonesian (12,530,636) 3 (ind) Javanese (4,168,734)Thai Thai (4,367,895) 4 (tha) English (1,775,132)Malay  Malay (1,944,430) 5 (mly) Indonesian (1,516,778)Sundanese  Javanese (2,004,316) 6 (sun) Sundanese (1,641,623)Luxemburg  Luxemburg (1,128,342) 7 (ltz) Javanese (393,524)Occitan  Occitan (119,734) 8 (lnc) English (83,380)Madurese  Madurese (387,585) 9 (mad) Javanese (93,837)Tatar  Javanese (1,802,601) 10 (tat) Thai (397,988)Table 2.
Language Link for Indonesian DomainThe table above only shows the top 10 lan-guages.
Among these, 8 languages are most fre-quently linked to the same language.
The two otherlanguages are Sundanese and Tatar, both mostlylinked to Javanese.The language graph below shows the languagesas the nodes and the edges representing the dis-tance between languages.
In the figure above, thesix languages of Indonesia are found to be closely-connected to each other.The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200853Figure 1.
Language Graph of Indonesia5.2 Intermediary LanguagesFor languages with only a few outgoing links be-tween them, there exists a language that acts as itsintermediary, that makes access between the twolanguages more convenient if passed through.No.
Intermediary Language Frequency Percentage1 English 89 17.73%2 Javanese 43 8.57%3 Tatar 42 8.37%4 Thai 40 7.97%5 Madurese 38 7.57%6 Indonesian 34 6.77%7 Latin 34 6.77%8 Sundanese 29 5.78%9 Malay 28 5.58%10 Luxemburg 24 4.78%Others  (top11-20) 122 24.30%Total 502 100.00%Table 3.
Intermediary Languages of IndonesiaThe above table shows the number of languagepairs having the given language as its intermediarylanguage.
English has the highest frequency as anintermediary language.
However, it is likely thatseveral pages were misidentified by LIM.
The sec-ond, Javanese is not surprising since it is a majorlanguage of Indonesia.
The table below shows se-lected language pairs, where one of its intermedi-ary languages is Javanese.Language i Language j Pij Pik*Pkj5Tatar Indonesian 0.01753 0.06085Tatar Luxemburg 0.00210 0.01193Samoan Balinese 0.00000 0.00052Table 4.
Selected Languages of Indonesia inwhich it?s Intermediary Language is Javanese5.3 Graph PropertiesThis section discusses the size distribution of theSCCs and the diameter of the Filipino languagecommunity in Indonesia.SCC sizeThe SCCs of a graph are those sets of nodes suchthat for every node, there is a path to all the othernodes.
The size of each SCC refers to the numberof nodes it contains.
Distribution of the sizes ofSCCs gives a good understanding of the graphstructure of the web, and has important implica-tions for crawling.
If most components have largesizes, only a few nodes are needed as seed URLs (alist of starting pages for a crawler) to be able toreach all the other nodes.
If all nodes are membersof a single SCC, one URL is enough to crawl allpages.SCCsize 1 2 4 16 19 20 26 45 T6# ofSCCs 9 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 18# ofnodes 9 2 12 16 19 20 26 45 149Table 5.
SCC size distribution of the Filipinolanguage community in IndonesiaSCC diameterThe maximum distance between any two nodes isthe diameter.
For each node size, the diameter is5 k = Javanese6 TotalThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200854calculated and plotted in the chart.
Their corre-sponding SCC graph is also shown.Figure 2.
Diameter distribution of the Filipinolanguage community in IndonesiaFor the Filipino language subgraph of Indonesia,the component with the largest node size also hasthe largest diameter.
However, the largest diametersize is only 3, which is a very small number.
Mostof the components have a diameter of 4.6 ImplicationsFor the Filipino language community, many SCCscan be found in the Philippines, since Filipino isone of its national languages.
However, for somecountries, there are not many SCCs.
For example,Indonesia only has 18 SCCs, half of which consistonly of one node.
However, the largest componentsize is 45, and there are 4 more large components.By picking out just one node from each SCC witha large size and using it as a seed URL, many webpages can already be downloaded.
Add to it thedepth parameter of 3, which is the largest diameter,these web pages can be downloaded within a shortperiod of time.The choice of seed URL and the crawly depthare useful parameters for crawling.
The analysis isdone for each language community to get theseparameters for language-specific crawling pur-poses.
These parameters are different for each lan-guage community.
This paper shows only showsthe case of the Filipino language community ofIndonesia as a sample illustration of the diametermetric.7 ConclusionThe vastness and multilingual content of the webmakes it a rich source of culturally-diversified in-formation.
Since web pages are connected by hy-perlinks, information can be readily accesses byjumping from one page to another via the hyper-links.For each country domain, the web pages writtenin the same language form a language community.The link structure between language communitiesshows how connected a language community iswith another language community.
It can be as-sumed that the close links between two languagecommunities on the web imply the existence ofmultilingual speakers of the two languages.
Oth-erwise linked pages will not be visited.
In this con-text, the language graph analysis demonstrated inthis study gives an effective tool to understand thelinguistic scenes of the country.
If the same analy-sis is performed for the secondary level domaindata, further insight into the socio-linguistic statusof each language can be drawn.
Secondary domaincorresponds to different social area of languageactivities, such as ?ac?
or ?edu?
for academic andeducation arena, ?go?
or ?gov?
for government orpublic arena, and ?co?
or ?com?
for commercialbusiness and occupational arena.
Although thisstudy does not extend its scope to the secondarylevel domain analysis, the effectiveness of the ap-proach was demonstrated.Another implication drawn from this study isthat the language graph analysis can identify in-termediary languages in the multilingual communi-ties.
In the real world, some languages are actingas a medium of communications among the differ-ent language speakers.
In most cases, such linguafranca are international languages such as English,French, Arabic, etc.
But it?s difficult to identifywhich language is acting as such in detail.
But onthe web link structure among languages, the lan-guage graph can give us a clue to identify this.
Asshown in this paper, there are a number of lan-guages acting as intermediary between two lan-guages having only a few hyperlinks between them.Although the result of this category is doubtfulbecause of misidentification of language, somecases show the expected result.The second objective of the study is to give amicroscopic level structure of the web communi-ties for much more practical and technical reasons,such as how to design more effective crawlingstrategy, and how to prepare starting URLs withminimal efforts.
The key issue in this context is toreveal the connectedness of the web.
To show theconnectedness of language communities, several012340 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50SCC sizediameterThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200855graph theory metrics, the size and numbers ofstrongly-connected components and the diametersare calculated and visual presentations of languagecommunities are also given.
This information canaid in defining parameters used for crawling, par-ticularly language-specific crawling.As a summary, the link structure analysis of lan-guage graphs can be a useful tool for various spec-trums of socio-linguistic and technical researchpurposes.8 Limitations and Future WorkThe results of this research are highly dependenton the language identification module (LIM).
Witha more improved LIM, more accurate results canbe presented.
Currently, there is an ongoing ex-periment that uses a new LIM.This analysis will also be done to the secondary-level-domains to show the language distributionfor different social areas.Future work also includes the creation of a lan-guage-specific crawler that will incorporate theresults derived from the analysis of the SCC sizeand diameter of the language subgraphs.AcknowledgmentThe study was made possible by the financial sup-port of the Japan Science and Technology Agency(JST) under the RISTEX program and the AsianLanguage Resource Network Project.
We alsothank UNESCO for giving official support to theproject since its inception.ReferencesBalakrishnan, Hemant and Narsingh Deo.
2006.
Evolu-tion in Web graphs.
Proceedings of the 37th South-eastern International Conference on Combinatorics,Graph Theory, and Computing.
Boca Raton, FL.Bharat Krishna, Bay-Wei Chang, Monika Henzinger,and Matthias Ruhl.
2001. Who links to whom: min-ing linkage between Web sites.
In Proceedings of the2001 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining,pages 51-58, San Jose, California.Boldi, Paolo, Bruno Codenotti, Massimo Santini, andSebastiano Vigna.
2004.
UbiCrawler: A scalablefully distributed web crawler.
Software: Practice &Experience, 34(8):711-726.Broder, Andrei, Ravi Kumar, Farzin Maghoul, Prab-hakar Raghavan, Sridhar Rajagopalan, Raymie Stata,Andrew Tomkins, and Janet Wiener.
2000.
Graphstructure in the web.
In Proceedings of the 9th WorldWide Web Conference, pages 309-320, Amsterdam,Netherlands.Chakrabarti, Soumen, Martin van den Berg, and By-ronDom.
1999.
Focused Crawling: a new approachto topic-specific Web resource discovery.
In Pro-ceedings of the 8th International World Wide WebConference, pages 1623-1640, Toronto, Canada.Herring, Susan C., John C. Paolillo, Irene Ramos-Vielba,Inna Kouper, Elijah Wright, Sharon Stoerger, LoisAnn Scheidt, and Benjamin Clark.
2007.
LanguageNetworks on LiveJournal.
In Proceedings of the  40thAnnual Hawaii International Conference on SystemSciences, Hawaii.Kumar, Ravi, Prabhakar Raghavan, Sridhar Rajagopalan,D.
Sivakumar, Andrew S. Tompkins, and Eli Upfal.2000.
The Web as a graph.
In Proceedings of theNineteenth ACM SIGMOD-SIGACT-SIGART Sympo-sium on Principles of Database Systems, pages 1-10,Dallas, Texas, United States.Petricek, Vaclav, Tobias Escher, Ingemar J. Cox, andHelen Margetts.
2006.
The web structure of e-government: developing a methodology for quantita-tive evaluation.
In Proceedings of the 15th Interna-tional World Wide Web Conference, pages 669-678,Edinburgh, Scotland.Pingali, Prasad, Jagadeesh Jagarlamudi, and VasudevaVarma.
2006.
WebKhoj: Indian language IR fromMultiple Character Encodings.
In Proceedings of the15th International World Wide Web Conference,pages 801-809, Edinburgh, Scotland.Stamatakis, Konstantinos, Vangelis Karkaletsis, Geor-gios Paliouras, James Horlock, Claire Grover, JamesR.
Curran, and Shipra Dingare.
2003.
Domain-Specific Web Site Identification: The CROSSMARCFocused Web Crawler.
In Proceedings of the 2nd In-ternational Workshop on Web Document Analysis(WDA 2003), pages 75?78.
Edinburgh, UK.Suzuki, Izumi, Yoshiki Mikami, Ario Ohsato, and Yo-shihide Chubachi.
2002.
A language and character setdetermination method based on N-gram statistics.ACM Transactions on Asian Language InformationProcessing, 1(3): 269-278.Tamura, Takayuki, Kulwadee Somboonviwat, and Ma-saru Kitsuregawa.
2007.
A method for language-specific Web crawling and its evaluation.
Systemsand Computers in Japan, 38(2):10-20.The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200856
