Cross Lingual Information Access System for Indian LanguagesCLIA ConsortiumA Consortium of 11 Institutions as the Implementing Agency for theProject ?Development of Cross Lingual Information Access (CLIA) System?
funded by Gov-ernment of India, Ministry of Communications & Information Technology, Department of In-formation Technology (No.
14(5)/2006 ?
HCC (TDIL) Dated 29-08-2006)1 IntroductionThe CLIA (Cross Lingual Information Access)Project is a mission mode project funded by Gov-ernment of India, Ministry of Communications &Information Technology, Department of Informa-tion Technology vide its approval No.
14(5)/2006?
HCC (TDIL), Dated 29-08-2006.
It is being exe-cuted by a consortium of 11 academic and researchinstitutions and industry partners, IIT Bombay, IITKharagpur, IIIT Hyderabad, AU-KBC Chennai,AU-CEG Chennai, ISI Kolkata, Jadavpur Univer-sity Kolkata, C-DAC Pune, C-DAC Noida, UtkalUniversity Bhubaneswar and STDC, DIT NewDelhi.
The final deliverables of the project at theend of two years will be a portal where:?
A user will be able to give a query in one Indianlanguage and?
S/he will be able to access documents availablein(a).
the language of the query,(b).
Hindi (if the query language is not Hindi),and(c).
English?
Results will be presented to the user in the lan-guage of the query.
The results can also be pre-sented in the language in which the informationoriginally resided.
The languages involved areBengali, Hindi, Marathi, Punjabi, Tamil and Te-lugu.2 MotivationWith the tremendous growth of digital and onlineinformation repositories new opportunities andnew problems are created for achieving informa-tion retrieval across different languages.
Onlinedocuments are available internationally in manydifferent languages.
Cross Lingual InformationAccess (CLIA) systems makes it possible for usersto directly access sources of information whichmay be available in languages other than the lan-guage of query.
However in conventional informa-tion retrieval systems the user must enter a searchquery in the language of the documents in order toretrieve it.
This requires that the user can formulatehis/her queries in all possible languages and candecipher documents returned by the retrieval proc-ess.
This restriction clearly limits the amount andtype of information, which an individual userreally has access to.Cross-language information retrieval enablesusers to enter queries in languages they are familiarto, and uses language translation methods to re-trieve documents originally created in other lan-guages.
Cross-Language Information Access is anextension of the Cross-Language Information Re-trieval paradigm.
Users who are unfamiliar withthe language of documents retrieved are often un-able to obtain relevant information from thesedocuments.
The objective of Cross-Language In-formation Access is to introduce additional postretrieval processing to enable users make sense ofthese retrieved documents.
This additional process-ing may take the form of machine translation ofsnippets, summarization and subsequent translationof summaries and/or information extraction.There have been efforts globally towards devel-opment of such systems.
Cross-Language Evalua-tion Forum (CLEF), NTCIR Asian Language Re-trieval, Question-answering Workshop and othershave been working towards achieving the similargoals.
In Indian context the need of such systembecomes more evident that being multi-lingualcountry, the people here are familiar with morethan one language.
The availability of such system973helps in reaching the information if it is availablein language other than the language of query.
Inorder to meet this requirement, the CLIA (CrossLingual Information Access) project has been initi-ated.3 System FeaturesThe system is intended to search different docu-ments in Indian languages.
Once the user starts thesystem, an initial screen with logo is displayed.
Bydefault, the screen is displayed in Hindi or Englishdepending on the default language selected on thebrowser of the user.
If the user wants to displaythis initial screen in any other language, he/she canselect the language from the bottom of the screen.The screen is then displayed in the selected lan-guage.
At present, the screen is available in sevenlanguages: Hindi, English, Marathi, Punjabi, Ben-gali, Tamil and Telugu.
To search a document, thefirst activity the user performs is the selection ofthe source language.
Selection of source languageallows the user to enter the text in the selected lan-guage.
?Selection of the Source Language: The user canselect the source language by clicking a drop-downbox.
The system displays the languages availableto select the source language.
?Entering String for Search: The user enters thequery string on which the search is to be made inthe appropriate place.
The system allows the userto enter the string in the source language selectedby the user using a soft keyboard for the language.
?Search the Web or the Site: Once the string is en-tered, the user should select whether to search thelocal site or the World Wide Web.
The user canthen click the search option to search the site forthe string entered.?
Displaying the Results: Once the query is prop-erly expanded and translated, it is used to searchthe web or the local site and the documents are re-trieved according to the query.
The snippets of theretrieved documents are displayed in the originallanguage of the document as well as in the sourcelanguage selected by the user.
Thus, if the sourcelanguage selected is Bengali, the user can enterquery string in Bengali, the CLIA system searchesfor documents in English, Hindi and Bengali eitherfrom the web or the local site.
The snippets of theretrieved documents are displayed in English/Hindi and Bengali.
?Advanced Search: The user can also select theadvanced search option and the CLIA system dis-plays all the options accordingly.
The user can se-lect here the domain for which he/she wants tosearch the documents.
At present, the tourism andhealth domains are available.
The user can alsoselect the number of items to be displayed on asingle page.
By default, the system displays 10items on a single page.
Once the selection is made,the user can click the ?search?
option to start thesearch.
In the advanced search option, the CLIAsystem provides summary as well as extracted in-formation in the form of predefined informationextraction templates, of the retrieved documentsalong with the generated snippet.
The summaryand the extracted information templates can bedisplayed in the original language of the documentas well as in the source language selected by theuser.4 Technical DetailsThe CLIA system achieves its performance bymeans of the following five subsystems:?
Input processing?
Search?
Processing of Retrieved Documents?
Output Generation?
UNL Based SearchThe main purpose of each of these subsystems isdescribed below:?
Input Processing SubsystemInput processing analyses the query entered by theuser using language processing tools, expands thequery to add more relevant terms and based on itsanalyses, either translates or transliterates all thequery terms to the target language and then pro-vides this as input to the search modules.
TheCLIA Input Processing subsystem consists of Lan-guage Analyzer (Tokenization, Named Entity Rec-ognition, Multiword Expression, Stop word identi-fication, Stemmer), Query Expansion (Pre- andPost-Translation Query Expansion), Query Trans-974lation and Query Transliteration.
The CLIA FocusCrawler subsystem consists of Classifier, Lan-guage identifier and the Parallel crawler.?
Search SubsystemThe search subsystem lies at the heart of the CLIA-search engine.
The main purpose of this module isto:(a).
Crawl the web and download files for a specific language and domain.(b).
Extract the text part in these documents andperform certain processing on those texts and con-vert them into indices.(c).
Extract results for a particular query by look-ing up the indices built so far.(d).
Arrange the document references returned bythe search subsystem according to some order de-pending upon page ranking.?
Document Processing SubsystemThe document-processing module facilitates theaccess of documents written in English, Hindi andin the other languages.
The documents crawledfrom the web are preprocessed using languageprocessing tools for extracting information andtranslating the extracted information into targetlanguages.
This module consists of many lan-guage-processing tools such as Document Con-verter, Language Pre-processors, POS taggers,Text Chunker, Named Entity Recognizer, DomainDictionaries, Information Extraction Engine andTranslation engine.
These modules are used inprocessing the documents.?
Output Generation SubsystemThis subsystem consists of the snippet generation,summary generation and the snippet translationmodules.
Brief details of the modules are describedbelow:(a).
Snippet Generation: The Snippet GenerationModule generates the snippet corresponding to theretrieved document.
This module gets the parsetext of the retrieved documents and the query fromthe search engine and generates the Snippet of eachdocument and returns the generated snippet on theoutput screen.(b).
Summary Generation: The Summary Genera-tion module generates the summary correspondingto the retrieved document.
This module gets theparsed text of the retrieved documents and thequery from the search engine and generates thesummary of the documents.(c).
Snippet and Summary Translation: Generatedsnippets for English and Hindi documents aretranslated to the query language.
If the query lan-guage is Hindi, then English documents are trans-lated to Hindi.
Translated snippet in the query lan-guage is displayed on the output screen along withthe original snippet.?
UNL-Based Search SubsystemThe advanced search system uses UNL as a lan-guage independent intermediate representation toenable translation between the languages.
The ad-vanced search using UNL is based on concepts,and relations between concepts rather than bag ofwords.
Hence it enables semantic search.
Althoughthe current system is designed for Tamil, it can beextended to other languages.5 Future RoadmapThe functionalities of the CLIA system have beencurrently developed for Bengali, Marathi and Te-lugu.
The search option has been limited to thecrawled documents that are stored and indexed inthe CLIA server.
The crawled documents are in thetourism domain.
At present, the user can provide 3-4 word queries to the CLIA system using soft key-boards for the respective language.
The output ofthe system shows only the snippets in the originallanguage of the document.The CLIA system is being enhanced to providefull functionalities in the other Indian languages,i.e., Hindi, Tamil and Punjabi.
The search option isexpanded to provide search facility on the webalso.
Work is also going on for providing CLIAfunctionalities in the health domain.
In future,snippet translation, summary generation and trans-lation as well as information extraction templatesgeneration and translation are going to be includedin the CLIA system.
The evaluation engine willjudge the CLIA system based on the ranks of therelevant documents in the list of documents re-trieved by the system.975
