Japanese Effort Toward Sharing Text and Speech CorporaShucihi Itahashi*+*National Institute of Informatics2-1-1 Hitotsubashi, Chiyoda-ku,Tokyo, Japan 101-8430itabashi@nii.ac.jpKoiti Hasida++National Institute of AdvancedIndustrial Science and Technology1-1-1 Umezono, Tsukuba, Ibaraki,Japan 305-8568Hasida.k@aist.go.jpAbstractThis report introduces the activities of thetwo organizations related to collectionand distribution of text and speech cor-pora in Japan.
One is the Language Re-source Association (GSK) and the otheris NII-Speech Resources Consortium(NII-SRC).1 IntroductionAlthough the need for shared speech and textdata has long been acknowledged, its realizationhas been slow to develop in Japan.
The LanguageResource Association (GSK) was established in1999 in order to share and distribute text andspeech corpora.
It was renovated as an NPO in2003 with an emphasis on text corpora.
The Na-tional Institute of Informatics (NII) has decidedto initiate the Speech Resources Consortium(SRC) in 2006, with the goal of creating futurevalue in information media, particularly speechmedia.2 NII-Speech Resources ConsortiumThe National Institute of Informatics (NII) wasfounded in Tokyo, Japan in April 2000 as an in-ter-university research institute organized to con-duct comprehensive research on informatics andto develop an advanced infrastructure for dis-seminating scientific information.
As a part ofpromoting the missions, NII decided in 2006 toinitiate the Speech Resources Consortium (SRC)for creating future value in information media,particularly speech media.
NII is promoting thisconsortium together with GSK (Itahashi and Oh-suga, 2006).2.1  SRC objective and activitiesThe SRC aims at the collection, distribution, in-vestigation, research, and standardization of elec-tronic data and software tools that are necessaryfor the development of science, education, andindustry concerning speech.
The consortium willcontribute to the development of the informationsociety through these activities.The SRC investigates the existing speech re-sources, catalogues them, and shows them on itshomepage in order to promote the research anddevelopment of speech information processing.
Italso requests research institutions to offer theirspeech resources to the SRC.
Based on these ac-tivities, it urges the distribution, promotion, andpublicity of speech resources.
The consortiumwill conduct the additional production and distri-bution of the speech resources that are frequentlyrequested.
It also conducts investigations and re-search on speech resources.
Users will be able toobtain the speech resources or data they need anduse them through simple processes offered by theSRC.
SRC distributes 23 speech corpora.2.2 OrganizationThe SRC is made up of a chairperson, a re-searcher, an adviser, a secretary, and a SpeechCorpora Promotion Committee.
The committeeworks to promote the development of the SRC.Around 15 members have been invited to join thecommittee from the fields of speech processing,The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 2008107linguistics, acoustics, speech and language corpuscreation, and speech and language resource pro-vision.
The committee meets a few times a year.3 Language Resource Association (GSK)The GSK was renovated as an NPO in 2003 andis qualified as a corporate body and can mediatebetween the producer and users of a languagecorpora (Hasida and Tanaka, 2006).3.1 GSK objective and activitiesThe GSK aims at almost the same objectives asthose of the NII-SRC mentioned in the precedingsection, including both the text and speechcorpora, but the text corpora are the main concernof GSK at present.Prof.
Y. Mikami of Nagaoka University ofTechnology proposed a project on the ?Construc-tion of Networks for Asian Linguistic Informa-tion Technology Resources?
together with GSK.This proposal was adopted as a three-year projectstarting from fiscal 2005.
It is supported by theScience and Technology Promotion & Coordina-tion Fund, and Yen15 million ($125,000) isavailable for GSK.
The mission of the project isto create a network of qualified Asian partners tospecify and support the development of high pri-ority language resources for Asian languages.
Asa part of this project, the GSK organized the?Asian Language Resources Workshop 2007?
inMarch.
Twenty one people from 13 countriesparticipated in the workshop.The GSK activities are almost the same asthose of the NII-SRC.
The GSK is made up of apresident, two vice presidents, 11 board members,25 steering committee members, a secretary, andtwo office clerks.
GSK supplies two text corporaand a speech corpus; it plans to distribute sevenmore text corpora soon.3.2 Corpora distribution systemWe have three systems of corpora distribution tobe conducted by the NII-SRC and GSK.
(1) No-fee distribution: As a rule, the cost of handlingthe corpora is to fall on the user, although the cor-pus itself is free of charge.
(2) Agency: The pro-ducers of the corpora entrust the SRC/GSK withreceiving requests from the users.
The SRC/GSKadvertises the corpora to speech researchersthrough the homepage.
It mediates the user?s re-quests to the producer or provider of the corpora.
(3) Fee-based distribution: Making speech cor-pora usually requires some money, including roy-alties.
Some corpora cost users a certain amountof money to obtain, although they are not so ex-pensive.4 Present IssuesSo far, we have established the GSK and NII-SRC for the text and speech corpora, respectively,while the LDC and ELRA distributes both thespeech and text corpora.The GSK is supported by a project until theend of this fiscal year, but it will loose its finan-cial support at that point.
The GSK has a rela-tively small amount of corpora to be distributed,so it is still too early to stand on its own feet.
TheNII-SRC activities will be supported by a projectfor a few more years, but it can not gain profitfrom distributing the corpora created by the re-searchers outside of NII.
We will search for betterways by which both the NII-SRC and GSK willbe able to act as corpora agents like the LDC orELRA.
There are some more organizations re-lated to language resources such as ATR, NICT,and NIJL.
We need much more collaboration andcoordination among these.5 ConclusionThis report explained the activities of the GSKand the NII?Speech Resources Consortium (NII-SRC).
GSK and NII-SRC will facilitate the dis-tribution, promotion, and publicity of the lan-guage resources, and in so doing, will contributeto the information society in Japan and in Asia.For further information, please refer to the fol-lowing URLs.http://research.nii.ac.jp/src/eng/index.htmlhttp://www.gsk.or.jp/index_e.htmlReferencesS.
Itahashi, T. Ohsuga.
2006.
Introduction of NII-Speech resources Consortium, Proc.
OrientalCOCOSDA-2006, Penang, Malaysia: 38-43.K.
Hasida, H. Tanaka.
2006.
Nonprofit Organiza-tion ?Language Resource Association (GSK)?,(in Japanese) Japanese Linguistics, 20:107-110.The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 2008108
