Development of Indonesian Large Vocabulary Continuous SpeechRecognition System within A-STAR ProjectSakriani Sakti1,2, Eka Kelana3, Hammam Riza4, Shinsuke Sakai1,2Konstantin Markov1,2, Satoshi Nakamura1,21National Institute of Information and Communications Technology, Japan2ATR Spoken Language Communication Research Laboratories, Japan3R&D Division, PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia, Indonesia4Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology, BPPT, Indonesia{sakriani.sakti,shinsuke.sakai,konstantin.markov,satoshi.nakamura}@atr.jp,eka k@telkom.co.id, hammam@iptek.net.idAbstractThe paper outlines the development of alarge vocabulary continuous speech recog-nition (LVCSR) system for the Indonesianlanguage within the Asian speech transla-tion (A-STAR) project.
An overview of theA-STAR project and Indonesian languagecharacteristics will be briefly described.
Wethen focus on a discussion of the develop-ment of Indonesian LVCSR, including dataresources issues, acoustic modeling, lan-guage modeling, the lexicon, and accuracyof recognition.
There are three types of In-donesian data resources: daily news, tele-phone application, and BTEC tasks, whichare used in this project.
They are available inboth text and speech forms.
The Indonesianspeech recognition engine was trained usingthe clean speech of both daily news and tele-phone application tasks.
The optimum per-formance achieved on the BTEC task was92.47% word accuracy.1 A-STAR Project OverviewThe A-STAR project is an Asian consortium thatis expected to advance the state-of-the-art in multi-lingual man-machine interfaces in the Asian region.This basic infrastructure will accelerate the devel-opment of large-scale spoken language corpora inAsia and also facilitate the development of relatedfundamental information communication technolo-gies (ICT), such as multi-lingual speech translation,Figure 1: Outline of future speech-technology ser-vices connecting each area in the Asian regionthrough network.multi-lingual speech transcription, and multi-lingualinformation retrieval.These fundamental technologies can be applied tothe human-machine interfaces of various telecom-munication devices and services connecting Asiancountries through the network using standardizedcommunication protocols as outlined in Fig.
1.
Theyare expected to create digital opportunities, improveour digital capabilities, and eliminate the digital di-vide resulting from the differences in ICT levels ineach area.
The improvements to borderless commu-nication in the Asian region are expected to resultin many benefits in everyday life including tourism,business, education, and social security.The project was coordinated together by the Ad-vanced Telecommunication Research (ATR) and theNational Institute of Information and Communica-tions Technology (NICT) Japan in cooperation withseveral research institutes in Asia, such as the Na-tional Laboratory of Pattern Recognition (NLPR) inChina, the Electronics and Telecommunication Re-search Institute (ETRI) in Korea, the Agency for theAssessment and Application Technology (BPPT)in Indonesia, the National Electronics and Com-puter Technology Center (NECTEC) in Thailand,the Center for Development of Advanced Comput-ing (CDAC) in India, the National Taiwan Univer-sity (NTU) in Taiwan.
Partners are still being soughtfor other languages in Asia.More details about the A-STAR project can befound in (Nakamura et al, 2007).2 Indonesian Language CharacteristicThe Indonesian language, or so-called Bahasa In-donesia, is a unified language formed from hun-dreds of languages spoken throughout the Indone-sian archipelago.
Compared to other languages,which have a high density of native speakers, In-donesian is spoken as a mother tongue by only 7%of the population, and more than 195 million peoplespeak it as a second language with varying degreesof proficiency.
There are approximately 300 eth-nic groups living throughout 17,508 islands, speak-ing 365 native languages or no less than 669 di-alects (Tan, 2004).
At home, people speak their ownlanguage, such as Javanese, Sundanese or Balinese,even though almost everybody has a good under-standing of Indonesian as they learn it in school.Although the Indonesian language is infused withhighly distinctive accents from different ethnic lan-guages, there are many similarities in patterns acrossthe archipelago.
Modern Indonesian is derived fromthe literary of the Malay dialect.
Thus, it is closelyrelated to the Malay spoken in Malaysia, Singapore,Brunei, and some other areas.Unlike the Chinese language, it is not a tonallanguage.
Compared with European languages, In-donesian has a strikingly small use of genderedwords.
Plurals are often expressed by means of wordrepetition.
It is also a member of the agglutina-tive language family, meaning that it has a complexrange of prefixes and suffixes, which are attached tobase words.
Consequently, a word can become verylong.More details on Indonesian characteristics can befound in (Sakti et al, 2004).3 Indonesian Phoneme SetThe Indonesian phoneme set is defined based on In-donesian grammar described in (Alwi et al, 2003).A full phoneme set contains 33 phoneme symbols intotal, which consists of 10 vowels (including diph-thongs), 22 consonants, and one silent symbol.
Thevowel articulation pattern of the Indonesian lan-guage, which indicates the first two resonances ofthe vocal tract, F1 (height) and F2 (backness), isshown in Fig.
2.HighMidLowiFront        Central      Backee2uoaFigure 2: Articulatory pattern of Indonesian vowels.It consists of vowels, i.e., /a/ (like ?a?
in ?father?
),/i/ (like ?ee?
in ?screen?
), /u/ (like ?oo?
in ?soon?
),/e/ (like ?e?
in ?bed?
), /e2/ (a schwa sound, like ?e?in ?learn?
), /o/ (like ?o?
in ?boss?
), and four diph-thongs, /ay/, /aw/, /oy/ and /ey/.
The articulatory pat-tern for Indonesian consonants can be seen in Table1.4 Indonesian Data ResourcesThree types of Indonesian data resources availablein both text and speech forms were used here.
Thefirst two resources were developed or processed bythe R&D Division of PT Telekomunikasi Indone-sia (R&D TELKOM) in collaboration with ATR ascontinuation of the APT project (Sakti et al, 2004),while the third one was developed by ATR under theA-STAR project in collaboration with BPPT.
Theyare described in the following.Table 1: Articulatory pattern of Indonesian consonants.Bilabial Labiodental Dental/Alveolar Palatal Velar GlotalPlosives p, b t, d k, gAffricates c, jFricatives f s, z sy kh hNasal m n ny ngTrill rLateral lSemivowel w y4.1 Text DataThe three text corpora are:1.
Daily News TaskThere is already a raw source of Indonesiantext data, which has been generated by an In-donesian student (Tala, 2003).
The source is acompilation from ?KOMPAS?
and ?TEMPO?,which are currently the largest and most widelyread Indonesian newspaper and magazine.
Itconsists of more than 3160 articles with about600,000 sentences.
R&D TELKOM then fur-ther processed them to generate a clean textcorpus.2.
Telephone Application TaskAbout 2500 sentences from the telephoneapplication domain were also generated byR&D TELKOM, and were derived from somedaily dialogs from telephone services, includ-ing tele-home security, billing information ser-vices, reservation services, status tracking ofe-Government services, and also hearing im-paired telecommunication services (HITSs).3.
BTEC TaskThe ATR basic travel expression corpus(BTEC) has served as the primary sourcefor developing broad-coverage speech transla-tion systems (Kikui et al, 2003).
The sen-tences were collected by bilingual travel ex-perts from Japanese/English sentence pairs intravel domain ?phrasebooks?.
BTEC has alsobeen translated into several languages includ-ing French, German, Italian, Chinese and Ko-rean.
Under the A-STAR project, there are alsoplans to collect synonymous sentences from thedifferent languages of the Asian region.
ATRhas currently successfully collected an Indone-sian version of BTEC tasks, which consists of160,000 sentences (with about 20,000 uniquewords) of a training set and 510 sentences of atest set with 16 references per sentence.
Thereare examples of BTEC English sentences andsynonymous Indonesian sentences in Table 2.Table 2: Examples of English-Indonesian bilingualBTEC sentences.English IndonesianGood Evening Selamat MalamI like strong coffee Saya suka kopi yang kentalWhere is the boarding Di manakah pintugate?
keberangkatan berada?How much is this?
Harganya berapa?Thank you Terima kasih4.2 Speech DataThe three speech corpora are:1.
Daily News TaskFrom the text data of the news task describedabove, we selected phonetically-balanced sen-tences, then recorded the speech utterances.Details on the phonetically-balanced sentences,the recording set-up, speaker criteria, andspeech utterances are described in what fol-lows:?
Phonetically-Balanced SentencesWe selected phonetically-balanced sen-tences using the greedy search algorithm(Zhang and S.Nakamura, 2003), resultingin 3168 sentences in total (see Table 3).Table 3: Number of phonetically-balanced sentencesresulting from greedy search algorithm.Phone # Units # SentencesMonophones 33 6Left Biphones 809 240Right Biphones 809 242Triphones 9667 2978Total 3168?
Recording Set-UpSpeech recording was done by R&DTELKOM in Bandung, Java, Indonesia.
Itwas conducted in parallel for both cleanand telephone speech, recorded at respec-tive sampling frequency of 16 kHz and 8kHz.
The system configuration is outlinedin Fig.
3.SennheizermicrophoneMicrophonepre-amplifier& ADCPCPhonePABXR&D TELKOMbuildingPhone USBMicrophonepre-amplifier& ADCUSBSound-proofed roomFigure 3: Recording set-up.?
Speaker CriteriaThe project will require a lot of time,money, and resources to collect all ofthe possible languages and dialects ofthe tribes recognized in Indonesia.
Inthis case, R&D TELKOM only focusedon the major ethnic accents in Bandungarea where the actual telecommunicationservices will be implemented.
Fourmain accents were selected, including:Batak, Javanese, Sundanese, and standardIndonesian (no accent) with appropriatedistributions as outlined in Fig.
4.
Bothgenders are evenly distributed and thespeakers?
ages are also distributed as out-lined in Fig.
5.
The largest percentage isthose aged 20-35 years who are expectedto use the telecommunication servicesmore often.Figure 4: Accent distribution of 400 speakers indaily news and telephone application tasks.Figure 5: Age distribution of 400 speakers in dailynews and telephone application tasks.?
Speech UtterancesThe total number of speakers was 400(200 males and 200 females).
Eachspeaker uttered 110 sentences resultingin a total of 44,000 speech utterances orabout 43.35 hours of speech.2.
Telephone Application TaskThe utterances in speech of 2500 telephoneapplication sentences were recorded by R&DTELKOM in Bandung, Indonesia using thesame recording set-up as that for the news taskcorpus.
The total number of speakers, as wellas appropriate distributions for age and accent,were also kept the same.
Each speaker uttered100 sentences resulting in a total of 40,000 ut-terances (36.15 hours of speech).3.
BTEC TaskFrom the test set of the BTEC text data pre-viously described, 510 sentences of one refer-ence were selected and the recordings of speechwere then done by ATR in Jakarta, Indone-sia.
BPPT helped to evaluate the preliminaryrecordings.
For this first version, we only se-lected speakers who spoke standard Indonesian(no accent).
There were 42 speakers (20 malesand 22 females) and each speaker uttered thesame 510 BTEC sentences, resulting in a totalof 21,420 utterances (23.4 hours of speech).5 Indonesian Speech RecognizerThe Indonesian LVCSR system was developed us-ing the ATR speech recognition engine.
The cleanspeech of both daily news and telephone applica-tion tasks were used as the training data, while theBTEC task was used as an evaluation test set.
Moredetails on the parameter set-up, acoustic modeling,language modeling, pronunciation dictionary andrecognition accuracy will be described in the follow-ing.5.1 Parameter Set-upThe experiments were conducted using feature ex-traction parameters, which were a sampling fre-quency of 16 kHz, a frame length of a 20-ms Ham-ming window, a frame shift of 10 ms, and 25 dimen-sional MFCC features (12-order MFCC, ?
MFCCand ?
log power).5.2 Segmentation UtterancesSegmented utterances according to labels are usu-ally used as a starting point in speech recognitionsystems for training speech models.
Automatic seg-mentation is mostly used since it is efficient and lesstime consuming.
It is basically produced by forcedalignment given the transcriptions.
In this case, weused an available Indonesian phoneme-based acous-tic model developed using the English-Indonesiancross language approach (Sakti et al, 2005).5.3 Acoustic ModelingThree states were used as the initial HMM for eachphoneme.
A shared state HMnet topology was thenobtained using a successive state splitting (SSS)training algorithm based on the minimum descrip-tion length (MDL) optimization criterion (Jitsuhiroet al, 2004).
Various MDL parameters were eval-uated, resulting in context-dependent triphone sys-tems having different version of total states.
i.e.,1,277 states, 1,944 states and 2,928 states.
All tri-phone HMnets were also generated with three dif-ferent versions of Gaussian mixture components perstate, i.e., 5, 10, and 15 mixtures.5.4 Language ModelingWord bigram and trigram language models weretrained using the 160,000 sentences of the BTECtraining set, yielding a trigram perplexity of 67.0 andan out-of-vocabulary (OOV) rate of 0.78% on the510 sentences of the BTEC test set.
This high per-plexity could be due to agglutinative words in theIndonesian language.5.5 Pronunciation DictionaryAbout 40,000 words from an Indonesian pronun-ciation dictionary were manually developed by In-donesian linguists and this was owned by R&DTELKOM.
This was derived from the daily newsand telephone application text corpora, which con-sisted of 30,000 original Indonesian words plus8,000 person and place names and also 2,000 of for-eign words.
Based on these pronunciations, we thenincluded additional words derived from the BTECsentences.5.6 Recognition AccuracyThe performance of the Indonesian speech recog-nizer with different versions of total states and Gaus-sian mixture components per state is graphicallydepicted in Fig.
6.
On average, they achieved92.22% word accuracy.
The optimum performancewas 92.47% word accuracy at RTF=0.97 (XEON 3.2GHz), which was obtained by the model with 1.277total states and 15 Gaussian mixture components perstate.Figure 6: Recognition accuracy of IndonesianLVCSR on BTEC test set.6 ConclusionWe have presented the results obtained from the pre-liminary stages of an Indonesian LVCSR system.The optimum performance achieved was 92.47%word accuracy at RTF=0.97.
A future developmentwill be to implement it on a real speech-to-speechtranslation system using computer terminals (tabletPCs).
To further refine the system, speaker adap-tation as well as environmental or noise adaptationneeds to be done in the near future.ReferencesH.
Alwi, S. Dardjowidjojo, H. Lapoliwa, and A.M. Moe-liono.
2003.
Tata Bahasa Baku Bahasa Indonesia (In-donesian Grammar).
Balai Pustaka, Jakarta, Indone-sia.T.
Jitsuhiro, T. Matsui, and S. Nakamura.
2004.
Au-tomatic generation of non-uniform HMM topologiesbased on the MDL criterion.
IEICE Trans.
Inf.
& Syst.,E87-D(8):2121?2129.G.
Kikui, E. Sumita, T. Takezawa, and S. Yamamoto.2003.
Creating corpora for speech-to-speech trans-lation.
In Proc.
EUROSPEECH, pages 381?384,Geneva, Switzerland.S.
Nakamura, E. Sumita, T. Shimizu, S. Sakti, S. Sakai,J.
Zhang, A. Finch, N. Kimura, and Y. Ashikari.
2007.A-star: Asia speech translation consortium.
In Proc.ASJ Autumn Meeting, page to appear, Yamanashi,Japan.S.
Sakti, P. Hutagaol, A. Arman, and S. Nakamura.
2004.Indonesian speech recognition for hearing and speak-ing impaired people.
In Proc.
ICSLP, pages 1037?1040, Jeju, Korea.S.
Sakti, K. Markov, and S.Nakamura.
2005.
Rapid de-velopment of initial indonesian phoneme-based speechrecognition using cross-language approach.
In Proc.Oriental COCOSDA, pages 38?43, Jakarta, Indonesia.F.
Tala.
2003.
A Study of Stemming Effects on Infor-mation Retrieval in Bahasa Indonesia.
Ph.D. thesis,The Information and Language System (ILPS) Group,Informatics Institute, University of Amsterdam, Ams-terdam, Netherland.J.
Tan.
2004.
Bahasa indonesia: Between faqs and facts.http://www.indotransnet.com/article1.html.J.
Zhang and S.Nakamura.
2003.
An efficient algorithmto search for a minimum sentence set for collectingspeech database.
In Proc.
ICPhS, pages 3145?3148,Barcelona, Spain.
