Proceedings of the IJCNLP-08 Workshop on NLP for Less Privileged Languages, pages 3?4,Hyderabad, India, January 2008. c?2008 Asian Federation of Natural Language ProcessingCross Language Resource SharingVirach SornlertlamvanichThai Computational Linguistics Lab., NICT Asia Research Center,Pathumthani, Thailandvirach@tcllab.orgAbstractLanguage resource development is crucial for language study in current approaches.
Many efforts havebeen made to model a language on very large scaled corpora.
Statistical and probabilistic approaches areplaying a major role in taking the advantage of incorporating the context to improve their performance toa promising result in many areas of natural language processing such as machine translation, parsing,POS tagging, morphological analysis, etc.
It is believed that if there are sufficient corpora for a language,we can develop many efficient language processing applications within an expectable period.
However,corpus development is a labor intensive task and requires a continuous effort in maintaining the result tosuch a qualified level.
The problem is magnified when we need to deal with the less computerized lan-guages.
The availability of the computerized language data can be varied by the availability of the stan-dard of language encoding, number of speakers, economic scale of the speakers, and the language sup-porting tools.
As a result, the technology gap between languages are widened as we can see in the evi-dence of online language populations and web contents which are mainly occupied by English, and othersmajor languages distributed in Chinese, Spanish, Japanese, German and French.
The major concern in theless computerized languages is how to leverage the technology for those languages which will result inscaling up the number of online language populations.
Cross language resource sharing is one of the ef-forts to increase the opportunity for the access to those languages.
We are expecting that a language mayutilize the resource from other similar languages in terms of computational approaches and corpora.
Torelate the language resources among the less computerized languages has brought us to the followingopen questions:1.
Is there any intermediate representation that can efficiently relate among the languages?
Will it bean approach of meaning representation such as conceptual unit, WordNet, or etymological wordform representation such as Pali, Sanskrit, Chinese character?2.
Can a shallow language processing approach be used to increase the resources, namely ortho-graphic conversion, transliteration?3.
Will English be a good intermediate language?
This is because of the availability of the languagepairing resources with the English language.As a platform for cross language resource development, we have developed KUI (Knowledge UnifyingInitiator: http://www.tcllab.org/kui) equipped with a voting function to measure for the most reliabletranslation.
The English language is not only a possible intermediate representation for languages.
Otherappropriate approaches could be considered to maximize the resource sharing among the less computer-ized languages if we can determine a better common feature among those languages.34
