Linguistic Interpretation of Emotions for Affect Sensing from TextMostafa Al Masum ShaikhDept.
of Information andCommunication EngineeringUniversity of Tokyo7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-Ku113-8656 Tokyo, Japanalmasum@gmail.comHelmut PrendingerDigital Contents and MediaSciences Research DivisionNational Institute of Informatics2-1-2 Hitotsubashi, Chiyoda Ku101-8430 Tokyo, Japanhelmut@nii.ac.jpMitsuru IshizukaDept.
of Information andCommunication EngineeringUniversity of Tokyo7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-Ku113-8656 Tokyo, Japanishizuka@ieee.orgAbstractSeveral approaches have already been em-ployed to ?sense?
affective information fromtext, but none of those ever considered thecognitive and appraisal structure of individ-ual emotions.
Hence this paper aims at inter-preting the cognitive theory of emotionsknown as the OCC emotion model, from alinguistic standpoint.
The paper providesrules for the OCC emotion types for the taskof sensing affective information from text.Since the OCC emotions are associated withseveral cognitive variables, we explain howthe values could be assigned to those by ana-lyzing and processing natural language com-ponents.
Empirical results indicate that oursystem outperforms another state-of-the-artsystem.1 Introduction and MotivationWhile various conceptual models, computationalmethods, techniques, and tools are reported in(Shanahan et.
al., 2006), we argue that the currentwork for sensing the affect communicated by textis incomplete and often gives inaccurate results.
Itis true that the assessment of affective content isinevitably subjective and subject to considerabledisagreement.
Yet the interest in sentiment or af-fect based text categorization is increasing with thelarge amount of text becoming available on theInternet.
A brief discussion on available ap-proaches is given in (Shaikh et.
al., 2007a; Liu et.al., 2003).
For example, keyword spotting, lexicalaffinity, statistical and hand crafted approachestarget affective lexicons which are not sufficient torecognize affective information from text, becauseaccording to a linguistic survey (Pennebaker et.
al.,2003), only 4% of words used in written texts carryaffective content.In this paper we consider the contextual-valenced based approached (i.e., SenseNet) as dis-cussed by Shaikh et.
al., (2007a, 2007b) and con-sider their SenseNet as the basis of our know-ledgebase.
For simplicity, we use the words ?sen-timent?
and ?opinion?
synonymously and considersentiment sensing as the prior task of ?affect?
or?emotion?
sensing.
The SenseNet can sense eitherpositive or negative ?sentiment?, but it cannot clas-sify different emotions.
Therefore, this paper ex-plains how the SenseNet can be employed to senseemotions from text.
So the primary focus of thispaper is to provide a set of rules for emotions char-acterized by the OCC (Ortony et.
al., 1988) emo-tion model and discuss how the rules are imple-mented.2 Affect Sensing from Text2.1 Extending Valence Assignment Approachfor Emotions ClassificationFor the task of affect sensing from text we shouldincorporate both commonsense knowledge andcognitive structure of emotions along with the se-mantic interpretation of the words used in a sen-tence.
We have chosen the OCC model of emo-tions for this task.
The rule-based definition of theOCC emotion types characterized by a rich set oflinguistic tokens makes it appropriate to cope withthe valence assignment approach for affect sensingfrom text.2.2 Characterization of OCC EmotionsThe OCC emotion types can be characterized byappropriate rules interplaying with several vari-ables.
There are two kinds of variables, namely,895emotion inducing variables (event, agent and ob-ject based variables) and emotion intensity vari-ables.
The event-based variables are calculatedwith respect to the event which is usually a verb-object pair found in the sentence.
For example, thesentence, John bought Mary an ice-cream, givesan event as ?buy, ice-cream?.
The variables areenlisted in Table 1.
In general we call them ?emo-tion variables?.Type Variable Nameagent_fondness (af) agent basedcognitive_strength (cs)object_fondness (of) object basedobject_appealing (oa)self_reaction (sr)self_presumption (sp)other_presumption (op)prospect (pros)status (stat)unexpectedness (unexp)self_appraisal (sa)event basedvalenced_reaction (vr)event_deservingness (ed)effort_of_action (eoa)expected_deviation (edev)intensityevent_familiarity (ef)Table 1.
OCC emotion variablesThe OCC emotion model specifies 22 emotiontypes and 2 cognitive states.
For example, OCCmodel literally defines ?Happy-for?
as ?Pleasedabout a Desirable event for a Liked agent?, and?Fear?
as ?Displeased about Negative Prospect ofan Undesirable Unconfirmed event?.
Our goal is torepresent these literal definitions by rules inter-playing with the emotion variables so that the sys-tem can evaluate and get either a ?true?
or ?false?value.
For example, we have an input text txt, thathas an agent a, associated with an event e, and wehave a program entity x that detects emotion fromtxt.
We can now represent the rule for ?Happy-for?emotion as, x senses ?Happy-for?
if the followingcondition holds.
[Linguisitc_Token_found_for_HappyFor(txt) andNo_Negation_Found (txt)] or [vr =True and sr (e,txt) = ?Pleased?
and op(e, txt) = ?Desirable?
andaf (x, txt) = ?Liked?
and cs (a,x) = ?Other?
]3 Implementation of the RulesIn this section, we first briefly discuss about theSenseNet and its different linguistic resources.Then we explain the ?emotion variables?, theirenumerated values and how the values are assignedto the respective variables.3.1 SenseNetSemantic Parser.
The SenseNet has imple-mented a semantic parser using Machinese Syntax(Connexor Oy, 2005) that produces XML-formatted syntactic output for an input text.
Forexample, the sentence, ?My mother presented me anice wrist watch on my birthday and made deli-cious pancakes.
?, the output of the semantic parseris shown in Table 2.Triplet Output of Semantic ParserTriplet 1 [['Subject Name:', 'mother', 'SubjectType:', 'Person', 'Subject Attrib:',['PRON PERS GEN SG1:i']], ['ActionName:', 'present', 'Action Status:','Past ', 'Action Attrib:', ['time: mybirthday', 'Dependency: and']], ['Ob-ject Name:', 'watch', 'Object Type:', 'NNOM SG', 'Object Attrib:', ['Deter-miner: a', 'A ABS: nice', 'N NOM SG:wrist', 'Goal: i']]]Triplet 2 [['Subject Name:', 'mother', 'SubjectType:', 'Person', 'Subject Attrib:', []],['Action Name:', 'make', 'ActionStatus:', 'Past ', 'Action Attrib:', []],['Object Name:', 'pancake', 'ObjectType:', 'N NOM PL', 'Object Attrib:',['A ABS: delicious']]]Table2.
Semantic Verb-Frames outputted by Se-mantic ParserSemantic parser outputs each semantic verb-frameof a sentence as a triplet of ?subject, verb, and ob-ject?.
Hence, one obtains multiple triplets if theparser encounters multiple verbs in a sentence.
Inour case, we consider each triplet to indicate anevent encoding the information about ?who is do-ing what and how?.
Therefore, the output given inTable 2 has two events, which are dependent toeach other as indicated by ?dependency?
keywordin the action attribute of Triplet 1.Valenced Output.
SenseNet is the implementa-tion of contextual valence based approach thatdeals with semantic relationships of the words in asentence and assign contextual-valence using a setof rules and prior-valence of the words.
It outputs anumerical value ranging from -15 to +15 flaggedas the ?sentence-valence?
for each input sentence.896For examples, SenseNet outputs -11.158 and+10.973 for the inputs, ?The attack killed threeinnocent civilians.?
and ?It is difficult to take badphoto with this camera.
?, respectively.
These val-ues indicate a numerical measure of negative orpositive sentiments carried by the sentences.Scored-list of Action, Adjective, and Adverb.SenseNet has initially assigned prior-valence to928 verbs, 948 adjectives and 144 adverbs bymanual investigations of eight judges where theinter-agreement among the judges are reported asreliable (i.e., the Kappa value is 0.914).
The judgeshave manually counted the number of positive andnegative senses of each word of a selected list ac-cording to the contextual explanations of eachsense found in WordNet 2.1.
A database of wordswith prior-valence assigned using Equations (1) to(3) is developed and scores are stored in the scaleof -5 to 5.Prior-Valence = Average (((Positive-SenseCount ?
Negative-Sense Count)/Total SenseCount) * 5.0)(1)Prospect Polarity = if (Positive-Sense Count >Negative-Sense Count) then 1 else -1Prospective Valence = Average(max(Positive-Sense Count, Negative-Sense Count)/TotalSense Count) * 5.0*Prospect Polarity)(2)Praiseworthy Valence = Average (Prior-Valence + Prospective Valence)(3)Scored-list of Nouns.
SenseNet does an auto-matic approach to assign prior-valence to nouns byemploying ConceptNet (Liu and Singh, 2004).
Avalue between -5 to 5 is assigned as the valence foran unrated noun or concept as follows.
To assign aprior-valence to a concept, the system collects allsemantically connected entities that ConceptNetreturns for the input concept.
For example, to getthe prior-valence for the noun ?rocket?, the systemfailed to find it in the existing knowledgebase, butfrom the action list of the concept the system re-turned the value 4.112 by averaging the scores ofthe verbs ?carry (4.438)?, ?contain (4.167)?, ?fly(3.036)?, ?launch (5.00)?
and ?go (3.917)?.3.2 Assigning Values to the Emotion VariablesAccording to the OCC model, the values for thevariables self_presumption (sp) and self_reaction(sr) are ?Desirable?
or ?Undesirable?, and?Pleased?
or ?Displeased?
respectively.
For exam-ple, for the events ?buy ice-cream?, ?present wristwatch?, ?kill innocent civilians?
referred in theexample sentences  SenseNet returns contextualvalence as +7.832, +8.817 and -8.458, respec-tively.
According to SenseNet scoring system thevalence range for an event (i.e., verb, object pair)is ?10.
Thereby we decide that for an event if thevalence is positive (i.e., ?buy ice-cream?
), sp andsr are set as ?Desirable?
and ?Pleased?, and in thecase of negative valence (i.e., ?Kill innocent civil-ian?)
sp and sr are set to ?Undesirable?
and ?Dis-pleased?, respectively.The values for other_presumption (op) could beset ?Desirable?
or ?Undesirable?.
For the sentence?A terrorist escaped from the Jail?, the value forop (for the event ?escape from jail?)
is presumably?Desirable?
for the agent ?terrorist?
but it gets?Undesirable?
and ?Displeased?
for sp and sr be-cause of negative valence (i.e., -6.715) of theevent.
From SenseNet we get the valence for ter-rorist as -3.620.
Thus in this case we set op as ?De-sirable?
because of having a negative valencedevent associated with a negative valenced agent.Similarly we have the following simple rules toassign the values to op.?
If a positive valenced event is associated witha positive valenced agent, op is set ?Desir-able?.
e.g., the Teacher was awarded the best-teacher award.
[(teacher, +4.167) , (awardbest-teacher award, +8.741)]?
If a negative valenced event is associated witha positive valenced agent, op is set ?Undesir-able?.
e.g., the employee was sacked from thejob.
[(employee, +3.445), (sack from job, -6.981)]?
If a positive valenced event is associated witha negative valenced agent, op is set ?Undesir-able?.
e.g., the criminal was punished for thecrime.
[(criminal,-3.095), (punish for crime,+5.591)]In this context and in accordance to the OCCmodel, the value for cognitive_strength (cs) indi-cates how closely the computer program considersselfness.
This value is set as ?Self?
if the agent de-scribed in the text is a first person (i.e., I or We);otherwise it is set as ?Other?.
For the sentence, ?Iwish I could win the lottery.
?, cs is set ?Self?, butfor the sentence, ?Susan won the million dollarlottery.
?, cs is set ?Other?.According to the OCC model, prospect of anevent involves a conscious expectation that it will897occur in the future, and the value for the variableprospect (pros) can be either ?Positive?
or ?Nega-tive?.
In the aforementioned equation (2), Sense-Net considers either the positive or negative sense-count (whichever is the maximum for a verb) tocalculate ?prospective valence?
with the notion ofsemantic orientation towards optimistic-pessimisticscale.
In order to assign pros value to an event wealso consider the ?prospective valence?
of the verbinstead of ?prior-valence?
of that verb.
Thus ?posi-tive?
or ?negative?
is assigned according to a cer-tain threshold (i.e., ?3.5) for ?positive?
or ?nega-tive?
valence obtained for that event.
For example,the events ?admit into university?, ?kill innocentpeople?, ?do it?, SenseNet returns  +9.375, -8.728,+2.921, respectively and according to this valence,pros of the events is set to ?positive?, ?negative?and ?null?, respectively.The variable status (stat) has the values like:?Unconfirmed?, ?Confirmed?
and ?Disconfirmed?.We decide if the tense of the verb is present or fu-ture, the value is set to ?Unconfirmed?
(e.g., I amtrying to solve it.
); and if it is past or modal with-out a negation, stat is set ?Confirmed?
(e.g., I suc-ceeded.
), but with a negation, stat is set ?Discon-firmed?
(e.g., I did not succeed.
).If the valence of the agent/object is positive,?Liked?
is set to the variables agent_fondness (af)and object_fondness (of) variables, otherwise?Not-liked?
is set.
For example, for the sentences,?The hero appeared to save the girl.
?, and ?A ter-rorist escaped from the Jail?, af for ?hero?
and?terrorist?
is set to ?Liked?
and ?Not-Liked?
be-cause of positive and negative valence.
Similarly,of is set ?Liked?
and ?Not-Liked?
for ?girl?
and?Jail?
respectively.The value for self_appraisal (sa) can be either?Praiseworthy?
or ?Blameworthy?.
In the afore-mentioned equation (3) SenseNet takes the averageof ?Prior Valence?
and ?Prospective Valence?
of averb with the notion of average semantic orienta-tion of the verb from both good-bad and optimis-tic-pessimistic perspective.
Like assigning prosvalue to an event we consider the ?praiseworthyvalence?
of the verb to assign value to sa.
Therebyfor the same events discussed above to explainpros assignment, the value for sa is set ?Praisewor-thy?, ?Blameworthy?
and ?null?, respectively.The value of object_appealing (oa) indicateswhether an object is ?Attractive?
or ?Unattractive?.In order to assign a value to oa, we deal with twoscores (i.e., object valence, and familiarity valence)having the following heuristic.
?Attractive?
is set ifthe object has a positive valence with a familiarityvalence less than a certain threshold.
Reversely?Unattractive?
is set if the object has a negativevalence with a familiarity valence above a certainthreshold.
The familiarity valence is obtained fromthe ConceptNet by calculating the percentage ofnodes (out of 300,000 concept-nodes) linking toand from the given object/concept.
For example,the familiarity valence for ?restaurant?, ?thief?
and?diamond ring?
is 0.242%, 0.120% and 0.013%,respectively.
Heuristically we kept the threshold0.10% to signal familiarity and unfamiliarity of anobject.
Thus ?diamond ring?
and ?thief?
gets ?At-tractive?
and ?Unattractive?
set for oa, but ?restau-rant?
gets ?null?
accordingly.The value for valenced_reaction (vr) is set either?True?
or ?False?
in order to initiate further analy-sis to sense emotions or decide the sentence(s) asexpressing a neutral emotion.
We consider vr to be?True?
if the ?sentence-valence?
returned by Sen-seNet is either above than 3.5 or less than -3.5.
Forexample, ?I go.
?, doesn?t lead to further process-ing (i.e., sentence-valence is +3.250) but ?I go togym everyday.
?, leads to classify emotion becauseof the sentence-valence +7.351 obtained from Sen-seNet.
The value to the variable unexpectedness(unexp) is set ?true?
if there is a linguistic token torepresent suddenness (e.g., abruptly, suddenly,swiftly etc.)
in the input sentence, otherwise?false?
is set.
We have a list of such tokens to indi-cate suddenness.OCC model has several variables to signify emo-tional intensity.
For example, the value for the in-tensity variable event_deservingness (ed) is set?High?
for an event having a higher positive va-lence (i.e., above +7.0) or ?Low?
for higher nega-tive one (i.e., less than -7.0).
If an action is quali-fied with an adverb (e.g., He worked very hard) ortarget object qualified with an adjective (e.g., I amlooking for a quiet place) without a negation, thevalue for effort_of_action (eoa) is set ?Obvious?,otherwise ?Not-Obvious?.
Another variable calledexpected_deviation (edev) indicates the differencebetween the event and its actor.
For example, inthe sentence ?The police caught the criminal fi-nally.
?, the actor ?police?
and the event ?catchcriminal?
don?t deviate because the action is pre-sumably expected by the actor.
We set the valuefor edev to ?Low?
if ConceptNet can find any se-898mantic relationship between the actor and event;otherwise ?High?
is set.
For example, for sentence?the student invented the theory.
?, edev is set?High?
because ConceptNet doesn?t return anyrelationship between ?student?
and ?invent?.
Thevalues ?Common?
or ?Uncommon?
are set forevent_familiarity (ef) according to the familiarityvalence obtained from ConceptNet for the inputevent as discussed before.4.3 The rules for the OCC Emotion TypesIn section 2.2 we briefly illustrated how a rulefor the OCC defined emotion (e.g., happy-for) ischaracterized.
Now using the same notion we enlistthe rules for the OCC model defined emotiontypes.
Although in txt there might be multiple edescribed and we also deal with such cases to getthe resultant emotion types from txt, but we don?tdiscuss that in the scope of this paper and describethe simple cases.
Thus, the rules for emotion typesare given considering an event e, for example, theprogram x senses ?Joy?
for e if following conditionis true:[Linguisitc_Token_found_for_Joy(txt) andNo_Negation_Found (txt)] or [vr= true and sr=?Pleased?
and sp= ?Desirable?
and cs= ?Self?
](i.e., literally joy means being ?pleased about a de-sirable event?.)
Since we have the token words foreach emotion types, we omit the first condition inthe subsequent rules for space limitations.
Therules for the emotion are listed as following anddue to space limitations we are not providing therules for all the emotions.?
if (vr= true and sr= ?Pleased?
and pros= ?Posi-tive?
and sp= ?Desirable?
and status= ?Uncon-firmed?
), ?hope?
is true.?
if (vr= true and sr = ?Displeased?
and pros=?Negative?
and sp= ?Undesirable?
andstatus=?Unconfirmed?
), ?fear?
is true.?
if (vr= true and sr = ?Pleased?
and pros=?Negative?
and sp= ?Undesirable?
and status=?Disconfirmed?
), ?relief?
is true.?
if (vr= true and sr = ?Displeased?
and pros=?Positive?
and sp= ?Desirable?
and status=?Disconfirmed?
), ?disappointment?
is true.?
if (vr= true and sr= ?Displeased?
and sa=?Blameworthy?
and sp= ?Undesirable?
andcs=?Self?
), ?shame?
is true.?
if (vr= true and sp= ?Desirable?
and sr=?Pleased?
and of= ?Liked?
and oa= ?Attrac-tive?
), ?love?
is true.?
if (vr= true and sp= ?Undesirable?
and sr=?Displeased?
and of= ?Not-Liked?
and oa=?Unattractive?
), ?hate?
is true.The OCC model has four complex emotionsnamely, ?gratification?, ?remorse?, ?gratitude?
and?anger?.
For example:?
If both ?joy?
and ?pride?
are true, ?gratifica-tion?
is also true.?
If both ?distress?
and ?reproach?
are true, ?an-ger?
is also true.The cognitive states ?Shock?
(i.e.
; unpleasant sur-prise) and ?Surprise?
(i.e., pleasant surprise) areruled as; If both ?distress?
and unexp are true,?shock?
is true.
(e.g., The bad news came unex-pectedly.).
Similarly, if both ?joy?
and unexp aretrue, ?surprise?
is true.
(e.g., I suddenly met myschool friend in Tokyo.
)Like Liu et al (2003), we also believe that astatement may contain more than one type of emo-tions.
In our case, the 22 emotion types and twocognitive states are grouped into seven groups,namely, well-being emotion, fortune of other emo-tion, prospect based emotion, cognitive state, attri-bution emotion, attraction emotion, and compoundemotion.
Hence an input sentence may contain oneof the emotion types from each group.
For exam-ple, the sentence ?I suddenly got to know that mypaper won the best paper award.
?, outputs the fol-lowing emotions: {Joy, Satisfaction, Surprise,Pride, Gratification}.The sentence ?She failed topass the entrance examination.
?, outputs {Dis-tress, Sorry-for, Disappointment, Reproach, An-ger} emotion types.
In order to reduce the numberof emotions, we consider the intensity variables.For the first set of emotions, we can reduce it to{Satisfaction, Surprise, Pride} because ?Joy?doesn?t have any intensity variables and the inten-sity variables ed and edev are set to ?High?
in thiscase.4 Test and EvaluationThe similar system like ours is Liu?s system (Liuet.
al., 2003).
It is a rule based system, and it seemsto be the best performing system for sentence-levelaffect sensing that senses happy, fearful, sad, an-gry, disgust, and surprise emotions.
On the practi-cal side, it is freely available on the Internet.
Ex-899ample input and output are enlisted to given anidea about the outputs of the two systems.Input: I avoided the accident luckily.Liu?s output: fearful(26%),happy (18%), angry(12%),sad(8%),surprised(7%),disgusted (0%)Ours output: valence: +11.453; [joy, pride, relief,surprise, gratification]Input: Susan bought a lottery ticket and she waslucky to win the million dollar lottery.Liu?s output: sad(21%), happy(18%), fearful(13%),angry(11%),disgusted(0%),surprised (0%)Ours: valence: +12.533; [happy-for, satisfaction, ad-miration, love]We evaluated our system to assess the accuracyof sentence-level affect sensing when compared tohuman-ranked scores (as ?gold standard?)
for 200sentences assessed by two systems.
The sentenceswere collected from Internet based sources for re-views of products, movies, and news.
In order toconduct system?s performance and acceptance testwe have two systems X (i.e., Liu?s System) and Y(i.e., our system).
The judges were not told aboutthe characteristics of any of the systems.
Eachjudge receives the output from both X and Y foreach input sentence and can accept either both out-puts or anyone of the two or reject both.
Thus %Xmeans the percentage of the number of acceptancesreceived by X in terms of accuracy of output.
Simi-larly %Y, %XY, and %!XY indicate the percent-age of acceptances received by the system Y, boththe systems and neither of the two systems respec-tively.
For example, for the input sentence ?She isextremely generous, but not very tolerant with peo-ple who don't agree with her.
?, among the 5 judges3 accepted the output of Y, 2 accepted the outputof X.
Since the majority of the judges accepted Y,vote for this sentence was counter for Y.
Thus thevote for each sentence is counted.
Outcome of ourexperiment is reported below while the valencerange to classify a neutral sentence is considered?3.5 for the SenseNet upon which system Y isbuilt.System Y received 16.069% more acceptancesthan that of X, which indicates that the output of Yis more acceptable and accurate than that of X.Though the test was conducted with a small groupof judges with relatively small input size, but theexperiment result (i.e., 82% accuracy with an aver-age precision 76.49%, recall 81.04% and F-score78% for classifying positive, negative and neutralclasses using the same dataset) for sentiment sens-ing reported by SenseNet, provides an optimisticbelieve that the result would not vary even the sur-vey is conducted with larger group of judges.
Ta-ble 3 summarizes the experimental result for 200sentences.Data-Set of 200 Sentences%X %Y %XY %!XY20.344 36.413 24.283 18.96Table 3.
Experimental Result5  ConclusionIn order to perform more testing and usabilitystudy, we plan to implement a web-based user in-terface where any user can input a chunk of textand get outputs from the both systems mentionedabove.
Thereby we can get user?s acceptance testin terms of accuracy of output.
Next we plan toperform the task of affect sensing using online re-sources (e.g., blogs, reviews, etc.
).ReferenceConnexor Oy.
2005.
Machinese Syntax, web-site:http://www.connexor.com/connexor/Hugo Liu and Push Singh.
2004.
ConceptNet: A Practi-cal Commonsense Reasoning Toolkit, BT Technol-ogy Journal, 22(4):211-226, Kluwer Academic Pub-lishers.Hugo Liu, Henry Lieberman, and Ted Selker.
2003.
AModel of Textual Affect Sensing using Real-WorldKnowledge, In Proc.
IUI 03, pp.
125-132, Miami,USA, ACM.Opinmind, Discovering Bloggers, (2006),http://www.opinmind.com/Andrew Ortony, Gerald L. Clore and Allan Collins.1988.
The Cognitive Structure of Emotions, Cam-bridge University Press.James W. Pennebaker, Martha E. Francis, and Roger J.Booth.
2001.
Linguistic inquiry and word count:LIWC (2nd ed.)
[Computer software].
Mahwah, NJ:Erlbaum.Mostafa A. M. Shaikh, Helmut Prendinger and MitsuruIshizuka.
2007a.
SenseNet: A Linguistic Tool toVisualize Numerical-Valance Based Sentiment ofTextual Data, In Proc.
ICON-2007, pages 147-152.Mostafa A. M. Shaikh, Helmut Prendinger and MitsuruIshizuka.
2007b.
Assessing Sentiment of Text bySemantic Dependency and Contextual ValenceAnalysis.
In Proc.
ACII 07, pp.
191-202.James G. Shanahan, Yan Qu and Janyce Wiebe (Eds.).2006.
Computing Attitude and Affect in Text: The-ory and Applications, Springer.900
