Analyzing Chinese Synthetic Words with Tree-based Informationand a Survey on Chinese Morphologically Derived WordsJia LuNara Institute ofScience and Technologyjia-l@is.naist.jpMasayuki AsaharaNara Institute ofScience and Technologymasayu-a@is.naist.jpYuji MatsumotoNara Institute ofScience and Technologymatsu@is.naist.jpAbstractThe lack of internal information of Chinesesynthetic words has become a crucial prob-lem for Chinese morphological analysis sys-tems which will face various needs of seg-mentation standards for upper NLP applica-tions in the future.
In this paper, we firstcategorize Chinese synthetic words into sev-eral types according to their inside semanticand syntactic structure, and then propose amethod to represent these inside informationof word by applying a tree-based structure.Then we try to automatically identify the in-ner morphological structure of 3-charactersynthetic words by using a large corpus andtry to add syntactic tags to their internalstructure.
We believe that this tree-basedword internal information could be usefulin specifying a Chinese synthetic word seg-mentation standard.1 IntroductionChinese word segmentation has always been a diffi-cult and challenging task in Chinese language pro-cessing.
Several Chinese morphological analysissystems have been developed by different researchgroups and they all have quite good performancewhen doing segmentation of written Chinese.
Butthere still remain some problems.
The biggest one isthat each research group has its own segmentationstandard for their system, which means that thereis no single segmentation standard for all taggedcorpora which can be agreeable across different re-search groups.
And we believe that this situationslows down the progress of Chinese NLP research.Among all the differences of segmentation stan-dards, the segmentation method for Chinese syn-thetic words is the most controversial part becauseChinese synthetic words have a quite complex struc-ture and should be represented by several segmen-tion levels according to the needs of upper applica-tions such as MT, IR and IME.For instance, a long(upper level) segmentationunit may simplify syntactic analysis and IME ap-plication but a small(lower level) segmentation unitmight be better for information retrieval or word-based statistical summarization.
But for now, noChinese morphological analysis system can do allkinds of these workwith only one segmentation stan-dard.Furthermore, although every segmentation systemhas good performance, in the analysis of real worldtext, there are still many out-of-vocabulary wordswhich could not be easily recognized because of theflexibility of Chinese synthetic word construction,especially proper names that could always appear assynthetic words.In order to make our Chinese morphological anal-ysis system to recognize more out-of-vocabularywords and to fit different kinds of NLP applications,we try to analyze the structure of the internal infor-mation of Chinese synthetic words, categorize theminto semantic and syntactic types and store these in-formation into a synthetic word dictionary by repre-senting themwith a kind of tree structure built on oursystem dictionary.In this paper, we first make the definition of Chi-53Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingnese synthetic words and classify them into severalcategories in Section 2.
In Section 3, two previousresearches on Chinese synthetic words will be intro-duced.
Then we propose a tree-based method foranalyzing Chinese synthetic words and make a sur-vey focused on 3-character morphological derivedwords to get the features for future machine learningprocess.
In Section 4, we do an experiment by us-ing SVM classifier to annotate 3-character morpho-logically derived words.
Finally, Section 5 showshow this method could benefit Chinese morphologi-cal analysis and our future work.2 Detailed study of Chinese syntheticwords2.1 Definition of Chinese wordsThere has always been a common belief that Chi-nese 'doesn't have words', but instead has 'charac-ters', or that Chinese 'has no morphology' and so is'morphologically impoverished', because in Chinesea 'word' is by no means a clear and intuitive notion.But actually for native Chinese speakers, they knowthat words are those lexical entries which representa complete concept and occur innately in the form ofspecific language rules based on the speaker's mentallexicon.Though there are a lot of ways to classify Chinesewords, we believe that Chinese words should be firstdivided into single-morpheme words and syntheticwords according to the way of construction of theirinternal parts.Single-morpheme words are those that could notbe divided into smaller parts when representing asthe whole concept.
In other words, if we divide sin-gle morpheme words into characters or parts, themeaning of individual parts become independent anddoes not indicate any connectionwith themeaning ofthe original word.
Following are the three differenttypes of single-morpheme words:?one-character words:?[human],?[horse],?
[vehicle]?one-morpheme words:??[quail],??[jadeite]??
[mandarin duck]?transliteration words:??[pizza],???[Kentucky]????
[aspirin]The first kind is obvious single words in that anordinary character in Chinese stands for an indepen-dent morpheme with one or several senses.
The sec-ond kind shows those words which are composed ofseveral characters and always used as a whole.
Forthe last kind, as can be seen from the above exam-ples, if we divide ???
[Kentucky] into '?[can]','?
[moral]' and '?
[base]', it definitely can not indi-cate the meaning of the well-known fried chickenrestaurant chain from those three characters.
Sothese three kinds of single-morpheme words shouldbe segmented as one word in any morphologicalanalysis systems.However, it becomes much more complicatedwhen dealing with synthetic words.
Generally, syn-thetic words are the type of words which are com-posed of single-morpheme words and represent anew entity or meaning which can be indicated fromthe internal constituents.
According to this defini-tion, if we divide synthetic words into smaller parts,we could still somehow guess the original meaningfrom the meaning of internal parts despite the factthat it may not be a very precise one.
For example theword??[driver].
If we don't know the meaning of'??
', but we do know themeaning of '?'
is 'control'and the meaning of '?'
is 'machine'.
Then we canguess the meaning of '??'
may be connected with'control' and 'machine', and actually the real meaningis the person who drives(controls) a car(machine).In Chinese language, according to the encodingstandard of GB2312, there are about 6,763 com-monly used characters.
And in our own system dic-tionary which has about 129,440 word entries, thenumber of one-character words is only 6,188 (about4.78%).
From these figures, we know that most Chi-nese words belong to synthetic words and a deepanalysis for synthetic words is necessary for Chineselanguage processing.2.2 Classification of Chinese synthetic wordsThe Synthetic words may be understood as the re-sult or 'output' of a word-formation rule in Chi-nese language.
Classification of these Chinese syn-thetic words is a difficult task because the 'formationrule' is not so obvious and sometimes even a nativespeaker can not determine which category a word54Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language ProcessingFigure 1: Types of Chinese synthetic wordsshould belong to.
However, since it is quite impor-tant to understand the structure of Chinese words,there have been a lot of research on classificationof Chinese synthetic words from both linguistic andcomputational points of view until now.
Each ofthem has divided synthetic words into different cat-egories according to their own criteria.
In our re-search, based on our experience on Chinese morpho-logical analysis and unknown word detection, we di-vide Chinese synthetic words into the categories asshown in Figure 1 to help us understand the innerconstituents of them.2.3 Compound wordsCompound words, whose internal constituents havesome syntactic relations with each other, can bedivided into the following six kinds according to(Yuanjian He, 2004).?
Subject-predicate[???
]words that only have subject and predicateparts.
This type is subdivided into two types:SV and VS.VS:??/?[porter],??/?[referee]SV:?/??[gastroptosia],?/?[earthquake]?
Verb-object[???
]words that have verb and object parts, whichcontains two types: VO and OV.OV:?/??
[representative of party]VO:?/?[haircut],?/??[anti-government]?
Verb-modification[?????
]words that have a verb part and an adjunct partwhich are neither subject nor object of the verb.The adjunct part always shows the property ofthe verb part or be the media of the verb's ac-tion.This type contains VX and XV.VX:??/?[amplifier],??/?
[print shop]XV:??/??
[automatic control]?/?[wholesale]?
Predicate-complement[???
]words that have a verb part and a complementpart, which shows the result, direction or aspectof the action.
This type also have two kinds:VV and VA.VV:?/??
[running out of]??/?
[get rid of]VA:?/?
[dyeing red]?
Parallel-combination[???
]words that have a coordinate structure wherethe meanings of constituents are same, similar,related or opposite.Example: ?/?[switch],?/?[learning]?/?[nation],?/?[brother]?/?/?
[China, Japan and Korea]?
Noun-modification[?????
]words that have a noun part which is the root ofthe word, and a modification part which showsthe property of the noun part.Example: ?/?[computer],?/?
[book shelf]??/?
[bus stop]Here we have made some compromises with thesecategories mentioned above based on the simplic-ity of machine learning process and our experienceon tagging compund words.
For example, we only55Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingdefine SV and VS as the subject-predicate type be-cause it will make machine learning process mucheasier when it comes to those words with a struc-ture like SVO or SVX.
Futhermore, in the case thata word with an internal constituent which has bothNN and VV parts of speech, even human annota-tors can not easily tell which type this word shouldbe categarized into between noun-modification andverb-modification.
So we tagged all these words toverb-modification when they have an internal partwith both NN and VV parts of speech.2.4 Morphologically derived wordsMorphologically derived words are those whichhave specific word formation.
It can be categoriedinto the following types:?
Mergingwords that are composed of two adjacent andsemantically related words, which have somecharacters in common.
It could be seen as akind of abbreviation.Example: ??+??????
[middle and preliminary school]??+??????[context]???+???????
[mayer of Beijing city]?
Reduplicationwords that contain some reduplicated charac-ters.
There are eight main patterns of redu-plication: AA, ABAB, AABB, AXA, AXAY,XAYA, AAB and ABB.Example: ?/?[listen],?/??[valiantly]??/??[research]?
Affixationwords that are composed of a word and an af-fix(either a prefix, a suffix or an infix).Example: ???
[vice president]????
[Executive Engineer]???
[can't see]???
[can hear]???
[bureau of investigation]???
[security agency]2.5 ExceptionsApart from compound words and morphologicallyderived words, there still exist some types of wordswhich need discussion about whether they belongto synthetic words or not.
However, we can usesome other methods like time expression extractionor named entity recognition to deal with these kindsof words.?
Abbreviationsexpressions that have a short appearance, butstand for a long term.Example: ????????
[Communist Party of China]?
Factoidsexpressions that indicate date, time, number,money, score or range.
This kind of expressionshave a large variation in their appearance.Example: 2007.1.30???
[five thirty]?????
[3.56 yuan]?
Idioms, proverbs, sayings and poemsexpressions that usually consist of more thanthree characters and always have a specialmeaning.Example: ????
[sparsely visited]???????
[be the First to bear hardships]3 Previous research and tree-basedmethod3.1 Previous researchUntil now, there is little specific research on Chi-nese synthetic words.
However, every institution hasits own way of dealing with synthetic words in theirsegmentation standard when doing Chinese morpho-logical analysis.
There are two main previous re-searches on the analysis of Chinese synthetic words.The first one is done by Microsoft (Andi Wu,2003) by creating a customizable segmentation sys-tem of Chinesemorphologically derivedwords.
Thissystem uses a parameter driven method which candivide synthetic words into different levels of word56Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingcomponents based on some pre-defined rules, ac-cording to the needs of different NLP application.For instance, in machine translation, we will trans-late '????'
into 'toaster' if our system dictio-nary has this kind of information.
But if we donot have this entry in our dictionary, we have tosplit '????
[toaster]' into lower level such as'?
[bake] / ??
[bread] / ?
[machine]', the transla-tion of whichwill probably give us some informationabout the original meaning of the whole word.
Al-though this system achieves higher score than othersystems that do not have synthetic analysis, it onlytakes morphologically derived words into account,which means it does not contain information aboutinternal syntactic relations.The second one (C. Huang, 1997) is actually aproposal of segmentation standard rather than a de-tailed synthetic word analysis research.
It is firstused by Sinica when doing the tagging task of Chi-nese word segmentation.
If the tagging object isa synthetic word, one tag among w0, w1 and w2,which stand for 'faithful', 'truthful' and 'graceful', willbe selected for it.
For example, if we have a syn-thetic word '??????
[security agency of Bei-jing city]', this tagging method will divide the wordas follows:<w2><w1><w0>??</w0><w0>?</w0></w1><w1><w0>?
?</w0><w0>?</w0></w1></w2>Again, this kind of method does not take word in-ternal syntactic relations into account either.
Fur-thermore, it even does not have the POS informationof different levels of word, thus can not be used toconstruct a customizable system.3.2 Synthetic word analysis with tree-basedstructure informationFor specifying consistent Chinese segmentationstandard for our morphological analysis system andfertilizing the information of our dictionary, we pro-pose a synthetic word analysis method with tree-based structure information.We assume that words which are already in ourcurrent system dictionary could be word componentsof other out-of-vocabulary synthetic words.
So thefirst thing to do is to classify all synthetic wordsin our current dictionary into the categories definedin section 2.2.
Because intuitively most 2-characterwords, though they could have internal syntactic re-lations, are often used as single words by nativespeakers and have already been registered as lexicalentries in our Chinese dictionary, we can first clas-sify all 3-character words into those categories andlink their internal components to 1-character wordsand 2-character words which are already in our dic-tionary.After finishing the internal structure annotationfor 3-character words, we can easily construct 4-character or 5-character words' structure by using3-character and 2-character words' information andstore these structure information into synthetic worddictionary.Finally, when we get a long synthetic word, wecan build a tree structure recursively like in Figure2 by using the constituent words' internal structures,which have already been stored in our synthetic worddictionary.Figure 2: Synthetic word tree of '???????
[vice spokesman of State Department]'When constructing this kind of tree, we can usesome rules which have the following form:A + B?
Categoryor A + B + C?
Categorywhere A, B and C are parts of speech, affixationor other properties of word components.3.3 Annotation of morphologically derivedwords in system dictionaryUsually, in Chinese, 2-character words are thoughtand used as single words by native speakers.
Andwords which have more than two characters are of-ten synthetic words which can be categorized into57Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingcompound words or morphologically derived words.So during our work of analyzing Chinese syntheticwords, we first choose 3-character words as ourmaintarget in that starting from 3-character words willgive us a good chain effect when analyzing wordswhich have more than three characters.At first, there is no other resource at hand ex-cept for the morphological analysis system dictio-nary with 129440 entries.
Because a standard setwith all category information of Chinese syntheticwords is needed in further research, we first ex-tracted 1000 3-character words from our dictionaryand annotated them by hand according to the cate-gories introduced in section 2.
As the result of hu-subject-predicate 4.8%verb-object 2.0%verb-modification 21.3%predicate-complement 3.2%parallel-combination 0.2%noun-modification 62.9%single-morpheme word 5.4%Table 1: Compound words in 1000 wordsman annotation, Table 1 and 2 show the distributionof compound words and morphologically derivedwords.
In Table 1, although about 6% of the 1000words are single-morpheme words, we still can seethat noun-modification words occupy the largest part(62.9%) in synthetic words from a syntactic point ofview.
Table 2 gives us the information that most syn-prefix infix suffix merging reduplication9.0% 0.5% 83.0% 1.5% 0.2%Table 2: Morphologically derived words in 1000wordsthetic words (83%) have an internal structure with asuffix.Since most 3-character Chinese words have thestructure such as 'two+one' or 'one+two' characterformation, it is obvious that we should first look atnoun-modification words with frequently used suf-fixes as the beginning of our analysis.
We could geta list of characters of possible affixation from thisprocess too.
Furthermore, we also find that parallel-combination words and reduplication words tend tohave some fixed structures which makes them easyto recognize.4 Experiment on Morphologically derivedwordsIn order to apply our proposed tree-based analysismethod, we first have to annotate all 3-characterwords in our dictionary with their internal partslinked to 2-character and 1-character words.
Be-cause most Chinese 3-character words have prefix orsuffix structure, we assume that it will be much effi-cient for us to annotate 3-character words if we canclassify them from the aspect of morphologically de-rived words.Because we don't have any other useful resourcesexcept ChineseGigaword(CGW),We first computedmutual information for all 3-character words in twoways by referencing the CGW.
For example, if wehave a word ABC and we assume that A, C, AB andBC are all independent entries in our dictionary, wecompute the mutual information Mi-pre for A andBC, and the mutual information Mi-suf for AB andC.Since A, C, AB and BC are all independent words,if the result showsMi-pre<Mi-suf, we could say thatthe relation between A and BC is more independentthan the relation between AB and C, which means itis more possible that A and some other 2-characterword XY cound form the word AXY.
So the possi-bility of A being a prefix is greater than the possibil-ity of C being a suffix.
Then we could conclude thatthe word ABC has a prefix internal structure.
Other-wise, we could say it has suffix internal structure.After this process, we got a Mi(Mi-pre or Mi-suf)and a possible internal structure(prefix or suffix) forevery 3-character word in system dictionary.
Bycomparing these results to the 1000 extracted wordswhose internal structure has been already known, wecan easily get the correct ones whose possible inter-nal structure is the same as the ones annotated byhand.Except for the ones which have infix, mergingor redplication structure, there are 920 words in the1000 extracted words which are tagged as prefix orsuffix structure by hand.
After comparing, we got58Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processing676 out of 920 words(73.48%), which was dividedcorrectly by only looking at the internal mutual in-formation in a large corpus(Chinese Gigaword).The above result shows that overall accuracy isquite low by only taking account the internal mutualinformation when classifying prefix and suffix struc-ture.
Some examples of wrongly classifiedwords areshown in Table 3.words Mi-pre Mi-suf result???
7.024e-07 9.981e-07 ?
/?????
1.084e-06 1.171e-05 ?
/?????
1.384e-05 1.978e-05 ?
/?????
1.993e-06 2.440e-06 ?
/?????
8.971e-08 6.762e-08 ??
/?Table 3: Examples of wrongly dividedwords by onlyusing mutual informationAs shown in Table 3, most uncorrect ones arewords having suffix internal structure but wronglyclassified to have prefix internal structure.
This isbecause we only counted the frequencies of internalparts of words without considerring their propertiessuch as parts of speech and the frequencies that theinternal parts show out at a particular position, etc.In order to improve the whole accuracy when rec-ognizing prefix or suffix internal structure automati-cally, we used an SVM classifier with the followingfeatures(in the case of 3-character string ABC):1.internal part: A, C, BC, AB, ABC2.pos of each internal part:pos(A), pos(C), pos(BC), pos(AB), pos(ABC)3.frequency of each part in Chinese Gigaword:fre(A), fre(C), fre(BC), fre(AB), fre(ABC)4.mutual information of internal part:Mi-pre(A-BC), Mi-suf(AB-C)(In the actual classification process, we set the fre-quency range by 2000 and the mutual informationrange by log10)After dividing 80% of 920 words into traning setand 20% into testing set, the accuracy of SVM clas-sifier is 94.02%.
The precision and recall are shownin the first row of Table 4.
Because the above ex-periment(A) did not take the existence of 2-characterwords in system dictionary into account, we then addthese features and run the SVM classifier again.
Fi-Exp Acc.
F Prefix(%) Suffix(%)(%) Rec.
Pre.
Rec.
Pre.A 94.02 0.56 38.89 100.0 100.0 93.79B 94.57 0.67 55.56 83.33 98.80 95.35Table 4: Results of Recall and Precision for wordswhich have prefix or suffix structurenally we get the result of experiment(B) shown in thesecond row of Table 4.This result is quite unbalanced because thereare only a few intances of prefixes both intraining(72/736=9.78%) and testing(18/184=9.78%)sets.
This is the reason of low recall in classifyinginstances of prefixes.
The following words are theones which were wrongly classified.?????????????????????????????????????
?It turns out that these words contains mainly twotypes: the first type contains word like '???
', aprefix structure word whose last character has a quitehigh probability to be a suffix.
This makes it difficultfor SVM to determine to which class the whole wordshould be classified; an example of the second typeis suffix structure word like '???
', whose frontpart '??'
does not appear in the Chinese Gigawordindependently, which in the end make it unsure forSVM to classify it into suffix structure word.Though there are some words that were wronglycategorized, we still got a overall accuracy of94.57% which would be much higher if we recur-sively use SVMs for classification.
We believe thatthis method could classify morphologically derivedwords quite efficiently if we add somemore rules forrecognizing merging and reduplication words.
Andby applying the tree-based method, we could use thismethod on words with more than 3 characters in fu-ture.5 Conclusion and future workThis paper proposed a tree-based method for analyz-ing Chinese synthetic words by constructing a Chi-nese synthetic word dictionary.
This method is basedon the classification of Chinese synthetic words bothfrom syntactic and morphological ways.
After anno-tating and investigating the distribution of one thou-sand 3-character words, we used frequencies and59Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingmutual information as features from Chinese Giga-word for machine learning.
With these features, wetried to classify morphologically derived words intoprefix or suffix internal structure by using SVM clas-sifier.For future work, we have to take other morpholog-ical internal structures into account and try to clas-sify all synthetic words intomorphologically derivedword categories.
Then, we should also find somethesaurus that contain syntactic information ofwordsor characters to help us analyze the compoundwords'internal structure.
Finally, after gathering the infor-mation of Chinese synthetic words from both syn-tactic and morphological aspect, we will build a Chi-nese synthetic word dictionary and try to use it to im-prove the performance of ourmorphological analysissystem and unknown word extraction.References[Andi Wu2003] Andi Wu.
2003.
Customizable Segmen-tation of Morphologically Derived Words in Chinese.Vol.8, No.1, February 2003, pp.
1-28 ComputationalLinguistics and Chinese Language Processing[C. Huang1997] C. Huang, K. Chen and L. Chang 1997.Segmentation standard for Chinese natural languageprocessing.
International Journal of ComputationalLinguistics and Chinese Language Processing[Chooi-Ling Goh2006] Chooi-Ling Goh, Jia Lu, YuchangCheng, Masayuki Asahara and Yuji Matsumoto 2006.The Construction of a Dictionary for a Two-layer Chi-nese Morphological Analyzer.
PACLIC 2006[Hiroshi Nakagawa, Hiroyuki Kojima, Akira Maeda2004]Hiroshi Nakagawa, Hiroyuki Kojima, Akira Maeda2004.
Chinese Term Extraction fromWeb Pages Basedon Compound word Productivity.
Third SIGHANWorkshop on Chinese Language Processing, ACL2004[Huihsin Tseng and Keh-Jiann Chen2002] Huihsin Tsengand Keh-Jiann Chen 2002.
Design of Chinese Mor-phological Analyzer.
First SIGHAN Workshop 2002[Jerome L. Packard2000] Jerome L. Packard 2000.
TheMorphology of Chinese-A Linguistic and CognitiveApproach.
[Keh-Jiann Chen, Chao-jan Chen2000] Keh-Jiann Chen,Chao-jan Chen 2000.
Automatic Semantic Classifi-cation for Chinese Unknown Compound Nouns.
ACL2000[Shengfen Luo and Maosong Sun2003] Shengfen Luoand Maosong Sun 2003.
Two-character ChineseWord Extraction Based on Hybrid of Internal andContextual Measures.
ACL 2003[Yuanjian He2004] Yuanjian He 2004.
???????-?????????????????????
?.The Chinese University of Hong Kong60Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processing
