NLP Applications of Sinhala: TTS & OCRRuvan Weerasinghe, Asanka Wasala, Dulip Herath and Viraj WelgamaLanguage Technology Research Laboratory,University of Colombo School of Computing,35, Reid Avenue, Colombo 00700, Sri Lanka{arw,raw,dlh,wvw}@ucsc.cmb.ac.lkAbstractThis paper brings together the practical ap-plications and the evaluation of the firstText-to-Speech (TTS) system for Sinhalausing the Festival framework and an Opti-cal Character Recognition system for Sin-hala.1 IntroductionLanguage Technology Research Laboratory ?
(LTRL) of the University of Colombo School ofComputing (UCSC), was established in 2004evolving from work engaged in by academics ofthe university since the early 1990?s in local lan-guage computing in Sri Lanka.Under the scope of the laboratory, numerousNatural Language Processing projects are beingcarried out with the relevant national bodies, inter-national technology partners, local industry and thewider regional collaboration particularly within thePAN Localization Initiative*.
The Sri Lankan com-ponent of the PAN Localization Project concen-trated on developing some of the fundamental re-sources needed for language processing and somesoftware tools for immediate deployment at theend of the project.
Among the resources producedis a Sinhala Language Corpus of 10m words, and atri-lingual Sinhala-English-Tamil lexicon.
The twomain software tools developed include a SinhalaText-to-Speech (TTS) system and an Optical Char-acter Recognition (OCR) system for recognizingcommonly used Sinhala publications.?
See website: http://www.ucsc.cmb.ac.lk/ltrl* See project website: http://www.panl10n.netThis paper focuses primarily on the end-user ap-plications developed under the above project; Sin-hala TTS system and OCR system.
The paper de-scribes the practical applications of these tools andevaluates it in the light of experience gained so far.The rest of this paper is organized as follows:Section 2 gives an overview of the Sinhala TTSsystem; Section 3 describes the Sinhala OCR sys-tem.
A summary along with future research direc-tions and improvements are discussed in the lastsection.2 Sinhala Text-to-Speech SystemSighted computer users spend a lot of time readingitems on-screen to do their regular tasks such aschecking email, fill out spreadsheets, gather infor-mation from internet, prepare and edit documents,and much more.
However visually impaired peoplecannot perform these tasks without an assistancefrom other, or without using assistive technologies.A TTS (text-to-speech) system takes computertext and converts the words into audible speech(Dutoit, 1997).
With a TTS engine, application,and basic computer hardware, one can listen tocomputer text instead of reading it.
A ScreenReader (2007) is a piece of software that attemptsto identify and read-aloud what is being displayedon the screen.
The screen reader reads aloud textwithin a document, and it also reads aloud infor-mation within dialog boxes and error messages.
Inother words, the primary function of any-screenreading system is to become the ?eye?
of the visu-ally impaired computer user.
These technologiesenable blind or visually impaired people to dothings that they could not perform before by them-963selves.
As such, text-to-speech synthesizers makeinformation accessible to the print disabled.Within Sri Lanka, there is a great demand for aTTS system in local languages, particularly ascreen reader or web browser for visually impairedpeople.
In the case of the Tamil language, workdone in India could be used directly.
Until theLTRL of UCSC initiatives were launched in 2004,there was no viable TTS system found developedfor Sinhala, the mother tongue of 74 % SriLankans (Karunatillake, 2004).A project was launched to develop a ?commer-cial grade?
Sinhala text-to-speech system in UCSCin year 2004.
Later, it was extended to develop aScreen Reader which can be used by visually im-paired persons for reading Sinhala texts.The Sinhala TTS system was implementedbased on the Festival speech synthesizer (Taylor etal., 1998).
The Festival speech synthesis system isan open-source, stable and portable multilingualspeech synthesis system developed at Center forSpeech Technology Research (CSTR), Universityof Edinburgh (Taylor et al, 1998, Black andLenzo, 2003).
TTS systems have been developedusing the Festival framework for different lan-guages, including English, Japanese, Welsh, Turk-ish, Hindi, and Telugu (Black and Lenzo, 2003).However, efforts are still continuing to develop astandard Sinhala speech synthesizer in Sri Lanka.The Sinhala text-to-speech system is developedbased on the diphone concatenation approach.Construction of a diphone database and implemen-tation of the natural language processing moduleswere key research areas explored in this project.
Inthis exercise, 1413 diphones were determined.
Thediphones were extracted from nonsensical words,and recordings were carried out in a professionalstudio.
Moreover, language specific scripts (phone,lexicon, tokenization) and speaker specific scripts(duration and intonation) were defined for Sinhala.It is worthy to mention the development of con-text-sensitive letter-to-sound conversion rule setfor Sinhala.
Incorporation of a high accuracy na-tive syllabification routine (Weerasinghe et al,2005) and implementation of comprehensive textanalysis facilities (capable of producing the accu-rate pronunciation of the elements such as num-bers, currency symbols, ratios, percentages, abbre-viations, Roman numerals, time expressions, num-ber ranges, telephone numbers, email addresses,English letters and various other symbols) havebeen found unique for the language (Weerasingheet al, 2007).
Despite the Festival's incompletesupport for UTF-8, the above rules were re-writtenin UTF-8 multi-byte format following thework done for Telugu language (Kamisetty, 2006).The current Sinhala TTS engine accepts SinhalaUnicode text and converts it into Speech.
A malevoice has been incorporated.
Moreover, the systemhas been engineered to be used in deferent plat-forms, operating systems (i.e.
Linux and Windows)and by different software applications (Weeras-inghe et al, 2007).2.1 Applications of TTS Synthesis EngineSinhala text is made accessible via two interfaces,by the TTS engine.
A standalone software named?Katha Baha?
primarily reads documents in Sin-hala Unicode text format aloud.
The same applica-tion can also be used to record the synthesizedspeech.In this way, local language news papers and textbooks can be easily transformed into audio materi-als such as CDs.
This software provides a conven-ient way to disseminate up-to-date news and in-formation for the print disabled.
e.g.
Newspapercompany may podcast their news paper, enablingaccess for print disabled and everyone else.
Fur-thermore, the same application can be utilized toproduce Sinhala digital talking books.
To ensurethe easy access by print disabled, keyboard shortcuts are provided.Owing to the prevalent use of Windows amongthe visually impaired community in Sri Lanka, itbecomes essential that a system is developedwithin the Windows environment which offersSinhala speech synthesis to existing applications.The standard speech synthesis and recognition in-terface in Microsoft Windows is the MicrosoftSpeech Application Programming Interface (MS-SAPI) (Microsoft Corporation, n.d.).
MS-SAPIenabled applications can make use of any MS-SAPI enabled voice that has been installed in Win-dows.
Therefore, steps were taken to integrate Sin-hala voice into MS-SAPI.
As a result, the MS-SAPI compliant Sinhala voice is accessible via anyspeech enabled Windows application.
The Sinhalavoice is proved to work well with ?Thunder??
afreely available screen reader for Windows.
Addi-tionally, steps were taken to translate and integrate?
Available from: http://www.screenreader.net/964common words found related to Thunder screenreader (e.g.
link=???????
?, list item= ???????????????)
(Weerasinghe et al, 2007).Since most Linux distributions now come withFestival pre-installed, the integration of Sinhalavoice in such platforms is very convenient.
Fur-thermore, the Sinhala voice developed here wasmade accessible to GNOME-Orca and Gnoperni-cus - powerful assistive screen reader software forpeople with visual impairments.It is noteworthy to mention that for the first timein Sri Lankan history, the print disabled commu-nity will be able to use computers in their locallanguages by using the current Sinhala text-to-speech system.2.2 Evaluation of the Text-to-Speech  Synthe-sis EngineText-to-speech systems have been compared andevaluated with respect to intelligibility (under-standability of speech), naturalness, and suitabilityfor used application (Lemmetty, 1999).
As theSinhala TTS system is a general-purpose synthe-sizer, a decision was made to evaluate it under theintelligibility criterion.
Specially, the TTS systemis intended to be used with screen reader softwareby visually impaired people.
Therefore, intelligibil-ity is a more important feature than the naturalness.A Modified Rhyme Test (MRT) (Lemmetty,1999), was designed to test the Sinhala TTS sys-tem.
The test consists of 50 sets of 6 one or twosyllable words which makes a total set of 300words.
The words are chosen to evaluate phoneticcharacteristics such as voicing, nasality, sibilation,and consonant germination.
Out of 50 sets, 20 setswere selected for each listener.
The set of 6 wordsis played one at the time and the listener marks thesynthesized word.
The overall intelligibility of thesystem measured from 20 listeners was found to be71.5% (Weerasinghe et al, 2007).3 Optical Character Recognition SystemOptical Character Recognition (OCR) technologyis used to convert information available in theprinted form into machine editable electronic textform through a process of image capture, process-ing and recognition (Optical Character Recogni-tion, 2007).There are three essential elements to OCR tech-nology.
Scanning ?
acquisition of printed docu-ments as optical images using a device such asflatbed scanner.
Recognition- involves convertingthese images to character streams representing let-ters of recognized words and the final element in-volves accessing or storing the converted text.Many OCR systems have been developed forrecognizing Latin characters (Weerasinghe et al,2006).
Some OCR systems have been reported tohave a very high accuracy and most of such sys-tems are commercial products.
Leaving a landmark, a Sinhala OCR system has been developedat UCSC (Weerasinghe et al, 2006).Artificial Neural Network (ANN) and TemplateMatching are two popular and widely used algo-rithms for optical character recognition.
However,the  application of above algorithms to a highlyinflected languages such as Sinhala is arduous dueto the high number of input classes.
Empirical es-timation of least number of input classes neededfor  training a neural net for Sinhala character rec-ognition suggested about  400 classes (Weeras-inghe et al, 2006).
Therefore, less-complicated K-nearest neighbor algorithm (KNN) was employedfor the purpose of Sinhala character recognition.The current OCR system is the first ever re-ported OCR system for Sinhala and is capable ofrecognizing printed Sinhala letters typed usingwidely used fonts in the publishing industry.
Therecognized content is presented as editable SinhalaUnicode text file (Weerasinghe et al, 2006).A large volume of information is available in theprinted form.
The current OCR system will expe-dite the process of digitizing this information.Moreover, the information available via printedmedium is inaccessible to the print disabled, andthe OCR system, especially when coupled withSinhala TTS, will provide access to these informa-tion for the print disabled.3.1 Evaluation of the Optical Character Rec-ognition SystemThe performance of the Sinhala OCR system hasbeen evaluated using 18000 sample characters forSinhala.
These characters have been extracted fromvarious books and newspapers (Weerasinghe et al,2006).
Performance of the system has been evalu-ated with respect to different best supportive fonts.The results have been summarized in the Table 1(Weerasinghe et al, 2006).965Font FM DL Lakbima Letter% Recog.
97.17 96.26 89.89 95.81Table 1.
Experimental Results of Classification*From this evaluation it can be concluded that thecurrent Sinhala OCR has average accuracy of 95%(Weerasinghe et al, 2006).4 Conclusion and Future WorkThis paper brings together the development of adiphone voice for Sinhala based on the Festivalspeech synthesis system and an Optical CharacterRecognizer for Sinhala.Future work on the Sinhala TTS engine willmainly focus on improving the prosody modules.A speech corpus containing 2 hours of speech hasbeen already recorded.
The material is currentlybeing segmented, and labeled.
We are alsoplanning to improve the duration model using thedata obtained from the annotated speech corpus.
Itis also expected to develop a female voice in nearfuture.
The current Sinhala OCR system is fontdependent.
Work is in progress to make the OCRsystem font independent and to improve the accu-racy.
Sinhala OCR and the TTS systems, which arecurrently two separate applications, will be inte-grated enabling the user friendliness to the printdisabled.A number of other ongoing projects are aimed atdeveloping resources and tools such as a POS tagset, a POS tagger and a tagged corpus for Sinhala,an on-the-fly web page translator, a translationmemory application and several language teaching-learning resources for Sinhala, Tamil and English.All resources developed under this project aremade available (under GNU General Public Li-cense) through the LTRL website.AcknowledgementThis work was made possible through the PANLocalization Project, (http://www.PANL10n.net) agrant from the International Development Re-search Center (IDRC), Ottawa, Canada, adminis-tered through the Center for Research in UrduLanguage Processing, National University ofComputer and Emerging Sciences, Pakistan.
*  FM ?
?FM Abhaya?, DL ?
?DL Manel Bold?, Letter ?
?Letter Press?ReferencesAlan W. Black and Kevin A. Lenzo.
2003.
BuildingSynthetic Voices, Language Technologies Institute,Carnegie Mellon University and Cepstral LLC.
Re-trieved from http://festvox.org/bsv/.Microsoft Corporation.
(n.d.).
Microsoft Speech SDKVersion 5.1.
Retrieved from:http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-/library/ms990097.aspxT.
Dutoit.
1997.
An Introduction to Text-to-Speech Syn-thesis, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht,Netherlands.C.
Kamisetty, S.M.
Adapa.
2006.
Telugu Festival Text-to-Speech System.
Retrieved from:http://festival-te.sourceforge.net/wiki/Main_PageW.S.
Karunatillake.
2004.
An Introduction to SpokenSinhala, 3rd edn., M.D.
Gunasena & Co. ltd., 217,Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 11.Sami Lemmetty.
1999. Review of Speech SynthesisTechnology, MSc.
thesis, Helsinki University ofTechnology.Screen Reader.
2007.
Screen Reader.
Retrieved from:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Screen_reader.Optical Character Recognition.
2007.
Optical CharacterRecognition.
Retrieved from:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_character_recognitionP.A Taylor, A.W.
Black, R.J. Caley.
1998.
The Archi-tecture of the Festival Speech Synthesis System,Third ESCA Workshop in Speech Synthesis, JenolanCaves, Australia.
147-151.Ruvan Weerasinghe, Asanka Wasala, Kumudu Gamage.2005.
A Rule Based Syllabification Algorithm forSinhala, Proceedings of 2nd International Joint Con-ference on Natural Language Processing (IJCNLP-05).
Jeju Island, Korea.
438-449.Ruvan Weerasinghe, Dulip Lakmal Herath, N.P.K.Medagoda.
2006.
A KNN based Algorithm forPrinted Sinhala Character Recognition, Proceedingsof 8th International Information Technology Confer-ence, Colombo, Sri LankaRuvan Weerasinghe, Asanka Wasala, Viraj Welgamaand Kumudu Gamage.
2007.
Festival-si: A SinhalaText-to-Speech System, Proceedings of 10th Interna-tional Conference on Text, Speech and Dialogue(TSD 2007), Pilse?, Czech Republic, September 3-7,2007.
472-479966
