Proceedings of the IJCNLP-08 Workshop on NLP for Less Privileged Languages, pages 19?26,Hyderabad, India, January 2008. c?2008 Asian Federation of Natural Language ProcessingPrototype Machine Translation System From Text-To-Indian SignLanguageTirthankar DasguptaIIT, Kharagpurtirtha@cse.iitkgp.ernet.inSandipan DandpatIIT, Kharagpursandipan@cse.iitkgp.ernet.inAnupam BasuIIT, Kharagpuranupambas@gmail.comAbstractThis paper presents a prototype Text-To-Indian Sign Language (ISL) translationsystem.
The system will help disseminationof information to the deaf people in India.The current system takes English sentenceas input, performs syntactic analysis, andgenerates the corresponding ISL structure.Since ISL does not have any written form,the output is represented in terms of pre-recorded video streams.
The system usesLexical Functional Grammar (LFG) for-malism for representing ISL syntax.1 IntroductionThe All India Federation of the deaf estimatesaround 4 million deaf people and more than 10million hard of hearing people in India (Zeshan etal, 2004).
Studies revealed that, one out of everyfive deaf people in the world is from India.
Morethan 1 million deaf adults and around 0.5 milliondeaf children in India uses Indian Sign Language(henceforth called ISL) as a mode of communica-tion (Zeshan et al 2004).
ISL is not only used bythe deaf people but also by the hearing parents ofthe deaf children, the hearing children of deafadults and hearing deaf educators (Zeshan et al2004).Due to their inability in accessing informationthrough common broadcast modes like television,radio etc., and communication for the deaf com-munity in common places like railway, bank, andhospitals is difficult.Efforts to extend the existing means of commu-nication for the hearing impaired include close cir-cuit captioning in television and communicationthrough interpreter.
The first approach assumes agood knowledge in written languages like English,Hindi, or Bengali.
The second approach is not al-ways practically feasible.A large section of the hearing impaired in Indiauses ISL as their mode of communication.
How-ever, due to the inherent difficulty in their writtentexts, an automatic Text-to-ISL translation systemcould help to make more information and servicesaccessible to the hearing impaired.
Moreover, thesystem will not only improve information access,but it can also be used as an educational tool tolearn ISL.Though some work has been done on machinetranslation (MT) from English to American or Brit-ish Sign Language (SL) (Huenerfauth, 2003), butfor ISL, MT systems are still in its infancy.
Theunderlying architecture for most of the systems arebased on:I.
Direct translation: This requires knowledgeof both the source and the target language.Moreover, word order of the output may notbe the desired one.II.
Statistical MT: It requires large parallel cor-pora    which is very difficult to collect.III.
Transfer based architecture.
As ISL does notrelate to other SLs of either Asia or Europe(Zeshan, 2003), the existing systems transfergrammar rules cannot be applied to translateEnglish to ISL.Further, some of the systems are domain specificin nature, and cannot be used to generic systems.Hence, most of the above systems remain unusablefor the deaf community of India.
This is the primemotivation behind building a generic English Text-to-ISL translation system.The objective of this paper is to present a proto-type English-to-ISL generic machine translation19system.
Currently the system takes simple Englishsentences as input and generates ISL-gloss whichmay then be converted into the Hamburg NotationSystem (HamNoSys)1 (Prillwitz et.
al, 1989).
TheHamNoSys representation will provide signinginstructions to the sign synthesis module, to gener-ate an animated representation of ISL to the user.Lexical Functional grammar (LFG) f-structure isused to represent ISL syntax.The paper is organized as follows: Section 2presents linguistic issues related to ISL.
Section 3presents a brief summery of the related works.
Sec-tion 4 presents the overall system architecture.
Sec-tion 5 presents system evaluation and results.
Sec-tion 6 presents the sign synthesis via HamNoSys,and Section 7 presents conclusion and future work.2 ISL Linguistic IssuesIndian Sign Language (ISL) is a visual-spatial lan-guage which provides linguistic information usinghands, arms, face, and head/body postures.
A signis a sequential or parallel construction of its man-ual and non-manual components.
A manual com-ponent can be defined by several parameters likehand shape, orientation, position, and movementswhere as non-manual components are defined byfacial expressions, eye gaze, and head/body pos-ture (Zeshan, 2003).
However, there exist somesigns which may contain only manual or non-manual components.
For example the sign ?Yes?
issigned by vertical head nod and it has no manualcomponent.ISL lexicon is categorized according to the spa-tial behavior of the signs (Zeshan, 2003).
There arethree open lexical classes: i) Signs whose place ofarticulation are fixed, like, ?hand?, ?teeth?, ?eye?,?me?, and ?you?
as shown in Fig.
1. ii) Signswhose place of articulation can change, like,?good,?
?friend,?
and ?marry?
as shown in Fig.
2.iii) Directional signs are those where there is amovement between two points in space.
For exam-ple, in the sentence ?I help him?
the head word is?help?
and direction of the sign is from subject ?I?to the object ?him?
(Fig.
3).
Directional signs gen-erally show verbal property (Zeshan, 2003).
Apartfrom the directional signs, ISL morphology ismostly derivational in nature and there are no af-fixes in signs.
The closed lexical class contains1 www.sign-lang.uni-hamburg.de/Projekte/HamNoSysclassifier hand shapes, discourse markers, and non-manual signs (Zeshan, 2003).
A classifier handshape contains specification related to hand con-figuration that represents the characteristics of areferent.
For example, consider the sentence ?Putthe cup on the table?.
Here the hand configurationwill contain shape of a ?cup?
added with a move-ment to express the event ?put?.ISL discourse structure is classified into manualand non-manual markers.
Manual discourse mark-ers can occur either in clause final position (as in,?it?s over, what else we can do??)
or in clause ini-tial position (like, ?well, I have nothing to say?
).The non-manual marker like ?head nodding?
oc-curs only in clause final position after the lastmanual sign of the clause.Me EyeFig.1: Signs whose place of articulation is fixed(Vasistha et.
al 1998)FriendFig.
2: Signs whose place of ar-ticulation can change (Vasisthaet.
al 1998)Fig.
3:  Directional Sign, ?I help you?.
Takenfrom AYJNIHH workbook video CD.3 The State-of-Art for Text-to-Sign Lan-guageIn spite of the advancements in modern computerscience technology, there is a paucity of researchin developing machine translation (MT) system onsign language particularly in India (Zeshan et al2004).
Some of the MT systems for other sign lan-20guage are briefly described below.
The underlyingMT architecture can be classified into i) Directtranslation system, ii) Transfer based architectureand iii) Statistical MT.The direct translation approach generates the SLby direct replacement of the words of input Englishsentence.
Generally the word order of the SL re-mains the same as that of the English text.
How-ever, as in the case of English to ISL, the target SLmay not allow the same word order.
Also, the sys-tem assumes a strong knowledge of both the Eng-lish as well as the target SL.Some of the direct translation systems include:?
TESSA: A Speech-To-British Sign Language(BSL) translation system that aims to provide acommunication aid between a deaf person and aPost Office clerk.
The system uses formulaicgrammar approach where a set of pre-definedphrases are stored and translation is done by us-ing a phrase lookup table.
However, the use ofsmall set of sentences as templates makesTESSA a very domain specific system.
It as-sumes a very restricted discourse between theparticipants (Cox, 2002).?
The SignSynth project (Grieve- smith 1998;Grieve-smith, 1999) uses ASCII-Stokoe modelfor the representation of Signs.
The animatedoutput is generated by converting ASCII-Stokoeinto VRML (Virtual Reality Modeling Lan-guage).
In his another project Grieve-Smith pro-posed a Text to American Sign Language (ASL)machine translation system.
The system has beenevaluated in the weather information domain.In a transfer architecture system, the source lan-guage representation is transformed into a suitablesyntactically/semantically correct target languageform by applying proper transfer grammar rules.These rules are dependent upon both the sourceand the target language.
However, as thesource/target language changes new rules are needto be added.
The transfer grammar approach is notonly used in text to SL MT systems but also intext-to-text MT systems, like the Shakti MT sys-tem which is used to translate English text to Hindi(Bharati et.
al., 2001; Bharati et.
al., 2003).
Thetransfer architecture systems include:?
The ViSiCAST translator, which is a English toBritish Sign Language (BSL) translation tool(Marshall & S?f?r, 2001; Bangham et al, 2000).The system uses HPSG (Pollard and Sag, 1994)formalism to represent source text into BSL andthe grammar is implemented using a Prolog basedsystem ALE.
The system handles discourse phe-nomena by using Discourse Representation Struc-ture (DRS) (Bos et.
al, 1994) and the phonology isrepresented in HamNoSys.
This is one of the mostsuccessful system developed so far (Huenerfauth,2003).?
The ASL workbench (Speers, 2001) is a Text-To-ASL MT system which uses Lexical FunctionalGrammar (LFG) (Kaplan, 1989) formalism to rep-resent English f-structure into ASL.
The systemuses a very sophisticated phonological modelwhich is based on Movement-Hold principle ofASL phonology (Lidell & Johnson 1989).?
The TEAM project is a Text-To-ASL translationsystem where, the STAG (Synchronous Tree Ad-joining Grammar) formalism is used to representsource text into ASL syntactic structure (Zhao etal, 2000).
The system maintains a bilingual lexiconto identify the valid word-sign pair.
The output ofthe linguistic module was a written ASL gloss no-tation.
The manual and non-manual information,including the morphological variation, are embed-ded with in the ASL gloss notation.
The output ofthe synthesis module uses animated human models(Avatar).In addition, An Example based MT system forEnglish-Dutch sign language was proposed by(Morrissey and Way, 2005).
Stein et.al.
(2006) hasproposed a statistical MT system which uses Hid-den Markov Model and IBM models for trainingthe data.
However, due to paucity of well anno-tated corpora, the system has been evaluated usinga very small set of data.3.1 Indian ScenarioINGIT is a Hindi-To-Indian Sign Language (ISL)Machine Translation system has been built for therailway reservation domain (Kar et.
al, 2006).
Thesystem takes input from the reservation clerk andtranslates into ISL.
The output of the system is ananimated representation of the ISL-gloss stringsvia HamNoSys.
INGIT is based on Hybrid-formulaic grammar approach unlike TESSA whichuses purely formulaic approach.
Here, Fluid Con-struction Grammar (FCG) (Steels and Beule, 2006)21is used to implement the Formulaic grammar.
Thisis the only Hindi text-to-ISL machine translationtool encountered by us so far.
However, the systemis domain specific in nature and cannot be used forgeneric purpose.
Further, the system does not haveto handle any structural divergence between thesource and the target language, as in most of thecases both Hindi and ISL show the same word or-der.4 ISL MT ArchitectureIn order to overcome the above mentioned prob-lem, we initially developed a direct translation sys-tem, however due to its inherent drawbacks, asmentioned in section 3, we need some other ap-proach.
One of the most popular techniques is touse statistical or case based MT system.
HoweverISL does not have any written form, so it is verydifficult to find any natural source of parallel cor-pora.
Niedle et al (2000) have proposed an ap-proach to collect corpus for statistical MT research,in his approach first, annotation standard for thevarious hand shape movements was developed,then the Sign Language performances were re-corded, and finally the recorded videos weremanually transcribed.
This is a very slow and ex-pensive process.
Due to the difficulty in obtainingparallel corpora of ISL, the statistical MT ap-proaches may not be a feasible solution to ourproblem.
Hence we decided to build a rule basedtransfer grammar MT system discussed in this sec-tion.The system architecture of the proposed EnglishText-To-ISL MT system is composed of the fol-lowing four essential modules (see Fig.
4):1.
Input text preprocessor and parser2.
LFG f-structure representation3.
Transfer Grammar Rules4.
ISL Sentence Generation5.
ISL  synthesis4.1 Text Analysis & Syntactic ParsingThe current Text-To-ISL translator takes simpleEnglish sentence as an input to the parser.
We de-fine simple sentence as, a sentence containing onlyone main verb.
The input sentence is then parsedusing the Minipar parser (Lin, 1998) and a depend-ency structure is constructed from the parse tree.However, before parsing, the input text is passed tothe preprocessing unit, where we try to identify thefrozen phrases2 and temporal expressions3 whichthe syntactic parser is unable to identify.
We pre-pare a phrase lookup table consisting of 350 frozenphrases and temporal expressions which are identi-fied before the input text is parsed.
The parsingstage also includes classification of plural nouns.The plurality is identified using an English mor-phological analyzer.Fig.
4: Architecture of the Text-to-ISL MT system4.2 LFG RepresentationThe Minipar generated dependency structure ismore akin towards the LFG functional structure (f-structure).
The f-structure encodes grammaticalrelation (like subject, object, and tense) of the inputsentence.
It represents the internal structure of asentence.
This includes the representation of thehigher syntactic and functional information of asentence.
This higher syntactic and functional in-formation of a sentence is represented as a set ofattribute-value pairs.
In an attribute-value pair, theattribute corresponds to the name of a grammaticalsymbol (e.g.
NUM, TENSE) or a syntactic function(e.g.
SUBJ, OBJ) and the value is the correspondingfeature possessed by the concerning constituent.For example, Fig.
5 shows the attribute-value pairfor the sentence ?John Played Cricket?.
The mainadvantage of f-structure is in its abstract represen-tation of syntactic and grammatical information ofa sentence.2 Phrases that are composed of Idioms, and Metaphor3 Temporal Expressions contains Time, Day and Date.22F4.3 ISL GenerationIn the generation stage, English f-structure is con-verted to ISL f-structure by applying proper trans-fer grammar rules.
Two main operations are per-formed during the generation phase: a) Lexicalselection and b) Word order correspondence.Lexical selection is done using an English-ISL bi-lingual lexicon.
For example word like ?Dinner?
inEnglish is replaced by ?NIGHT FOOD?
in ISL and?Mumbai?
is replaced by the sign of ?BOMBAY?.
(1) English: ?I had dinner with Sita?ISL: ?I SITA WITH NIGHT FOOD FINISH?ISL has essentially a Subject-Object-Verb wordorder (unlike English which is Subject-Verb-Object).
For Example, (2) shows the change inword order from English to ISL.
(2)  English: ?I have a computer?ISL: ?I COMPUTER HAVE?.However, in some cases the sign sentence de-pends upon the directionality of the verb as in (3).
(3) English: ?I help you?ISL: ?HELP + < hand movement from I-to-YOU>?.For sentences having only a subject and a verb,the subject always precedes the verb.
Like:(4) English: ?The woman is deaf?ISL:  ?WOMAN DEAF?.However, if the sentence contains a dummy sub-ject (5), then the subject is removed from the out-put.
(5) English: ?It is raining outside?ISL: ?OUTSIDE RAINING?For negative sentences, a negation mark is usedafter the verb (6).
The second bracket indicates aparallel non-manual component is attached withthe sign ?LATE?.
(6) English: ?I am not late?ISL: ?I {LATE + NOT}?.ig.
5: Attribute-Value pair for the sentence ISL has separate rules to handle adjectives oc-curring before a noun.
In most of the cases an ad-jective must occur after the noun.
However, if theadjective specifies a color then it should precedethe noun (see (7) & (8)).
?John Played Cricket?
(7) English: ?The beautiful girl is playing?ISL: ?GIRL BEAUTIFUL PLAY?
(8) English: ?I see a black cat?ISL: ?I BLACK CAT SEE?.WH-Interrogative markers (like who, what,when, and why) always occur at the end of the sen-tence.
(9) English: ?When is your birthday?
?ISL: ?YOUR BIRTHDAY TIME+QUESTION?.In case of yes/no type of questions, the sentenceis followed by a non-manual yes-no marker(Zeshan, 2004).
(10) English: ?Is the man deaf?
?ISL: ?MAN {DEAF} yes-no?Since ISL does not have any articles or conjunc-tions, they are removed from the generated outputas shown in example (2)-(10).5 System EvaluationEvaluating a Text-to-ISL MT system is difficultdue to the absence of ISL written orthography.Hence, standard techniques for evaluating Text-Text MT systems are not applicable for Text-to-ISL systems.
However, we have evaluated the sys-tem based on the feedbacks of the ISL experts.
Thegenerated outputs of the system are shown to theISL experts and are classified as either valid orinvalid according to their understandability andquality.
The system was evaluated on a set of 20823sentences4.
Table 1.1 summarizes the performanceof the system.
The overall system performance isaround 90%.
Most of the errors are due to com-pound sentences and directional verbs5.
To under-stand the relative performance of the system on thesimple sentences, we conducted two experimentsremoving compound construction and directionalverbs.
From the current experimental set up, 7%errors are propagated due to directional verbs andaround 4% errors are due to compound construc-tions.No.
of SentencesAccuracy(%)Overall Corpus size 208 89.4Sentences without di-rectional verbs 193 96.37Sentences withoutcompound construc-tions201 92.536 ISL SynthesisThe ISL sentences thus generated are displayed viaa stream of pre recorded videos or icons.
However,it has been observed that the current approach ofISL synthesis is highly criticized (Grieve-Smith,1999).
As, representing ISL signs by pre-recordedvideo will result in loss of information related todiscourse, classifier predicate, and directionality ofsign.
Also, storing sign video takes a lot of mem-ory overhead.
To overcome this crisis further de-velopments are in progress.
We represent ISL signsby HamNoSys and the generated HamNoSys stringwill be passed to the signing avatar.6.1 HamNoSysSign language does not have any written form.
Inorder to define a sign we need a notation system.The Hamburg sign language Notation system(HamNoSys) is a phonetic transcription systemused to transcribe signing gestures.
It is a syntacticrepresentation of a sign to facilitate computerprocessing.
HamNoSys is composed of severalparameters by which a signing gesture can be de-fined like:4  Corpus collected from ??A?
level Introductory course inIndian Sign Language?
Work Book AYJNIHH.5 Verbs corresponding to directional signs.?
Dominant hand?s shape.?
Hand location with respect to the body.?
Extended finger orientation.?
Palm orientation?
Movements (straight, circular or curved)?
Non-manual signs.Fig.
9 shows an example where HamNoSysrepresentation of the word ?WOMAN?
is ex-plained.In this example, the parameters like movementand non-manual signs are not present, as the sign?WOMAN?
in ISL does not have these expres-sions.
Fig.
10 shows the ISL representation of?WOMAN?.7 Conclusion and Future worksThe paper presents a prototype text to ISL transla-tion system.
Our approach uses LFG f-structure torepresent ISL syntax.
As ISL does not have anywritten form, there is no standard source of ISLcorpus.
Hence, statistical MT methods are not fea-sible under such a condition.
Our system is stillunder development stage.
The sign synthesis mod-ule using an animated avatar has not been devel-oped yet.
We generate ISL output using pre-recorded ISL videos.
Further morphological func-tionalities like, discourse, directionality, and classi-fier predicates are handled minimallyTable1.1: Evaluation ResultsFig.
9: HamNoSys representation of ?WOMAN?Fig.
10: Sign of  ?WOMAN?
(Vashista et.al, 1998)Extended Finger orientationHandshapeLocationPalm??
\  ??
?24In the next stage of our work, we will try tohandle directional sign, discourse, and classifiers.The sign representation should be done using ananimated avatar via HamNoSys notation.
We willalso develop the sign annotation tool and finally, alarger corpus will be built for a better evaluationand results.ReferencesN.
Badler, R. Bindiganavale, J. Allbeck, W. Schuler, L.Zhao, S. Lee, H. Shin, and M. Palmer 2000.
Param-eterized Action Representation and Natural LanguageInstructions for Dynamic Behavior Modification ofEmbodied Agents.
AAAI Spring Symposium.J.
A. Bangham, S. J. Cox, R. Elliot, J. R. W. Glauert, I.Marshall, S. Rankov, and M. Wells.
2000.
Virtualsigning: Capture, animation, storage and transmission?
An overview of the ViSiCAST project.
IEEE Semi-nar on Speech and language processing for disabledand elderly people.A.
Bharati, D. M. Sharma, R. Sangal.
2001.
AnnCorra :An Introduction, Technical Report no: TR-LTRC-014, LTRC, IIIT Hyderabad, Mar 2001,http://www.iiit.net/ltrc/ Publications/Techreports/TR-LTRC-14A.
Bharati, R. Moona, P. Reddy, B. Sankar, D.M.Sharma, R. Sangal, Machine Translation: The ShaktiApproach, Pre-Conference Tutorial at ICON-2003.J.
Bos, E. Mastenbroek, S. McGlashan, S. Millies, M.Pinkal.
1994.
A Compositional DRS-based Formal-ism for NLP Applications.
Report 59.
Universitaetdes Saarlandes.S.
Cox, M. Lincoln, J. Tryggvason, M. Nakisa, M .Wells, M. Tutt, S. Abbott.
2002.
Tessa, a system toaid communication with deaf people.
Fifth interna-tional ACM conference on Assistive technologies.M.
Huenerfauth.
2003.
A Survey and Critique ofAmerican Sign Language Natural Language Genera-tion and Machine Translation Systems.
Technical Re-port MS-CIS-03-32, Computer and Information Sci-ence, University of Pennsylvania.A.
Joshi, L. Levy and M. Takahashi.
1975.
Tree Ad-junct Grammar.
Journal of computer and system sci-ences.P.
Kar, M. Reddy, A. Mukherjee, A. M. Raina.
2007.INGIT: Limited Domain Formulaic Translation fromHindi Strings to Indian Sign Language.
ICON.Ronald M. Kaplan.
1989.
The formal architecture oflexical-functional grammar.
Journal of Information-Science and Engineering 5: 305-322.Scott Liddell and R. E. Johnson.
1989.
American SignLanguage: The phonological base.
Sign LanguageStudies 64: 195-277.D.
Lin.
1998.
Dependency-based evaluation of MINI-PAR.
In Workshop on the Evaluation of Parsing Sys-tems, Granada, Spain,I.
Marshall and ?.
S?f?r.
2001.
Extraction of semanticrepresentations from syntactic SMU link grammarlinkages..
In G. Angelova, editor, Proceedings of Re-cent Advances in Natural Lanugage Processing, pp:154-159, Tzigov Chark, Bulgaria, September.S.
Morrissey and A.
Way.
2005.
An Example-BasedApproach to Translating Sign Language.
In Proceed-ings of Workshop Example-Based Machine Transla-tion (MT X -05), Phuket, Thailand.C.
Neidle, J. Kegl, D. MacLaughlin, B. Bahan, and R.G.
Lee.
2000.
The Syntax of American Sign Lan-guage: Functional Categories and HierarchicalStructure.
Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.C.
J. Pollard, and I.
A.
Sag.
1994.
Head-driven PhraseStructure Grammar.
University of Chicago Press,Chicago, IL.S.
Prillwitz, R. Leven, H. Zienert, T. Hamke, and J.Henning.
1989.
HamNoSys Version 2.0: HamburgNotation System for Sign Languages: An Introduc-tory Guide, volume 5 of International Studies on SignLanguage and Communication of the Deaf.
SignumPress, Hamburg, Germany,?.
S?f?r and I. Marshall.
2001.
.The architecture of anEnglish-text-to-Sign-Languages translation system..In G. Angelova, editor, Recent Advances in NaturalLanguage Processing (RANLP), pp: 223-228.
TzigovChark, Bulgaria.G.
Angus Smith.
1998.
Sign synthesis and sign phonol-ogy.
Proceedings of the First High Desert  StudentConference in Linguistics.G.
Angus Smith.
1999.
English to American Sign Lan-guage machine translation of weather reports.
Pro-ceedings of the Second High Desert Student Confer-ence in Linguistics.A.
Speers.
1995.
SL-Corpus: A computer tool for signlanguage corpora.
Georgetown University.A.
Speers.
2001.
Representation of American Sign Lan-guage for Machine Translation.
PhD Dissertation,Department of Linguistics, Georgetown University.L.
Steels and J. Beule.
2006, Unify and Merge in FluidConstruction Grammar, In: Lyon C., Nehaniv, L. &A. Cangelosi, Emergence and Evolution of LinguisticCommunication, Lecture Notes in Computer Science.Springe-Verlag: Berlin,.25D.
Stein, J. Bungeroth and H. Ney.
2006.
Morpho-Syntax Based Statistical Methods for Sign LanguageTranslation.
In Proceedings of the 11th Annualconference of the European Association for MachineTranslation.
Oslo, Norway.M.
Vasishta, J. Woodward and S. DeSantis.
1998.
AnIntroduction to Indian Sign Language.
All India Fed-eration of the Deaf  (Third Edition).Elizabeth Winston.
1993.
Spatial mapping in compara-tive discourse frames in an American Sign Languagelecture.
Doctor of Philosophy in Linguistics diss.,Georgetown University.L.
Zhao, K. Kipper, W. Schuler, C. Vogler, N. Badler,and M. Palmer.
2000.
A Machine Translation Systemfrom English to American Sign Language.
Associa-tion for Machine Translation in the Americas.U.
Zeshan.
2003.
Indo-Pakistani Sign Language Gram-mar: A Typological Outline.
Sign Language Studies -Volume 3, Number 2 , pp.
157-212.U.
Zeshan.
2004.
Interrogative Constructions in SignedLanguages.
Crosslinguistic Perspectives Language -Volume 80, Number 1, pp.
7-39.U.
Zeshan, M. Vasishta, M. Sethna.
2004.
Implementa-tion of Indian sign language in educational settings-Volume 15, Number 2, Asia Pacific Disability Reha-bilitation Journal, pp.
15-3526
