Proceedings of the IJCNLP-08 Workshop on NLP for Less Privileged Languages, pages 91?98,Hyderabad, India, January 2008. c?2008 Asian Federation of Natural Language ProcessingMorphology Driven Manipuri POS TaggerThoudam Doren Singh             Sivaji BandyopadhyayComputer Science Department       Computer Science & Engineering DepartmentSt.
Anthony?s College                 Jadavpur UniversityShillong-793001, Meghalaya, India                     Kolkata ?
700 032, Indiathoudam_doren@rediffmail.com                     sivaji_cse_ju@yahoo.comAbstractA good POS tagger is a critical componentof a machine translation system and otherrelated NLP applications where anappropriate POS tag will be assigned toindividual words in a collection of texts.There is not enough POS tagged corpusavailable in Manipuri language ruling outmachine learning approaches for a POStagger in the language.
A morphologydriven Manipuri POS tagger that uses threedictionaries containing root words, prefixesand suffixes has been designed andimplemented using the affix informationirrespective of the context of the words.
Wehave tested the current POS tagger on 3784sentences containing 10917 unique words.The POS tagger demonstrated an accuracyof 69%.
Among the incorrectly tagged 31%words, 23% were unknown words (includes9% named entities) and 8% known wordswere wrongly tagged.1 IntroductionManipuri (Meiteilon or Meiteiron) belongs to theTibeto-Burman language family and is highlyagglutinative in behavior, monosyllabic, influencedand enriched by the Indo-Aryan languages ofSanskrit origin and English.
The affixes play themost important role in the structure of the language.A clear -cut demarcation between morphology andsyntax is not possible.
In Manipuri, words are formedin three processes called affixation, derivation andcompounding (Thoudam, 2006).
The majority of theroots found in the language are bound and the affixesare the determining factor of the class of the words inthe language.
Classification of words using the roleof affix helps to implement the tagger for a resourcepoor language like Manipuri with high performance.There are many POS taggers developed usingdifferent techniques for many major languages suchas transformation-based error-driven learning (Brill,1995), decision trees (Black et al, 1992), Markovmodel (Cutting et al, 1992), maximum entropymethods (Ratnaparkhi, 1996) etc for English.Decision trees are used to estimate marginalprobabilities in a maximum entropy model forpredicting the parts-of-speech of a word given thecontext in which it appears (Black et al, 1992).
Therules in a rule-based system are usually difficult toconstruct and typically are not very robust (Brill,1992).
Large tables of statistics are not needed for therule-based tagger.
In a stochastic tagger, tens ofthousands of lines of statistical information areneeded to capture the contextual information (Brill,1992).
For a tagger to function as a practicalcomponent in a language processing system, a taggermust be robust, efficient, accurate, tunable andreusable (Cutting, 1992).2 Previous work on Manipuri POS taggerMorphology based POS tagging of some languageslike Turkish (Oflazer and Kuruoz, 1994), Czech(Hajic, et al, 2001) has been tried out using acombination of hand-crafted rules and statisticallearning.
A Marathi rule based POS tagger used atechnique called SRR (suffix replacement rule)(Burange et al, 2006) with considerable accuracy.
APOS tagger for Hindi overcomes the handicap ofannotated corpora scarcity by exploiting the richmorphology of the language (Singh et al, 2006).
Tothe best of our knowledge, there is no recordavailable of work done on a Manipuri POS tagger.
Arelated work of word class and sentence typeidentification in a Manipuri Morphological Analyzer91is found in (Thoudam and Bandyopadhyay, 2006)where the classification of few word categories andsentence type identification are discussed based onaffix rules.3 Manipuri MorphemesThere are free and bound roots in Manipuri.
All theverb roots are bound roots.
There are also a fewbound noun roots, the interrogative anddemonstrative pronoun roots.
They cannot occurwithout some particle prefixed or suffixed to it.
Thebound root may form a compound by the addition ofanother root.
The free roots are pure nouns,pronouns, time adverbials and some numerals.
Thebound roots are mostly verb roots although there area few noun and other roots.
The suffixes, which areattached to the nouns, derived nouns, to theadjectives in noun phrases including numerals, thecase markers and the bound coordinators are thenominal suffixes.
In Manipuri, the nominal suffixesare always attached to the numeral in a noun phraseand the noun cannot take the suffixes.
Sincenumerals are considered as adjectives, the positionoccupied by the numerals in Manipuri may beregarded adjective position (Thoudam, 2006).
Thereare a few prefixes in Manipuri.
These prefixes aremostly attached to the verb roots.
They can also beattached to the derived nouns and bound noun roots.There are also a few prefixes derived from thepersonal pronouns.In this agglutinative language the numbers ofverbal suffixes are more than that of the nominalsuffixes (Singh, 2000).
New words are easily formedin Manipuri using morphological rules.
Inflectionalmorphology is more productive than derivativemorphology (Chelliah, 1997).
There are 8inflectional (INFL) suffixes and 23 enclitics (ENC).There are 5 derivational prefixes out of which 2 arecategory changing and 3 are non-category changing.There are 31 non-category changing derivationalsuffixes and 2 category changing suffixes.
The non-category changing derivational suffixes may bedivided into first level derivatives (1st LD) of 8suffixes, second level derivatives (2nd LD) of 16suffixes and third level derivatives (3rd LD) of 7suffixes.
Enclitics in Manipuri fall in six categories:determiners, case markers, the copula, moodmarkers, inclusive/exclusive and pragmatic peakmarkers and attitude markers.
The categories aredetermined on the basis of position in the word(category 1 occurs before category 2, category 2occurs before category 3 and so on).4 DictionariesThree different dictionaries namely prefix whichcontains prefix information, suffix which containssuffix information and root containing 2051 entriesare used for the system.
The format of root is<root><category>.A bilingual dictionary consisting of Manipuriword and its corresponding pronunciation, POS, 1stEnglish (Eng1) word meaning, 2nd English (Eng2)word meaning (if any), 3rd English (Eng3) wordmeaning (if any), a Manipuri sentence or phraseusing the word and corresponding English meaninghas been developed based on the work of Manipuri toEnglish Dictionary (Imoba, 2004).
The bilingualparallel dictionary is used for testing POS tagger andlater on will be used for EBMT system.
TheManipuri sentences/phrases using a particular wordare used as the input to the POS tagger thus enablingto sort out words with multiple meaning.5 Morphological analysis of Major LexicalcategoriesThe lexical categories in Manipuri can be of twotypes ?
major and minor (Chelliah, 1997).
Majorlexical categories can be of two types, namely?actual?
and ?potential?.
The lexicon of actual lexicalcategories i.e., actual lexicon consists of anunordered list of roots and affixes and lexicalizedforms.
Each lexical entry in the actual lexiconconsists of what lexical category it belongs to andwhat its meaning is.
On the other hand, the output ofthe potential lexicon consists of words createdthrough productive morphological processes.
In theactual lexicon, roots may be bound or free.
Nounsand verbs from the actual lexicon can bedistinguished on formal grounds in that bound rootsare verbs and free roots are nouns.
In the potentiallexicon, adjectives, adverbs and nominal forms canbe derived from verb roots and stative verbs can bederived from noun roots.
There are several instanceswhere the words belonging to some class or categoryplays the role of some other category sometimesbased on its position in the sentences (P.C.
Thoudam,922006) Some of the generalized handcrafted rules toidentify the lexical are given as below.5.1 NounsNouns can be distinguished from other lexicalcategories on morphological grounds.
Unlike verbs,nouns can be suffixed by gender, number or casemarkers.
Proper nouns and common nouns are freestanding forms.The following is the list of word structure rulesfor nouns (Chelliah, 1997)N ?
Root INFL (ENC)Root ?
Root (2nd LD)Root ?
Root (1st LD)Root ?
(prefix) root (root)Figure 1 shows the general form of nounmorphology in Manipuri.
Examples of somesingular/plural noun forms are listed in Table 1.PronominalprefixRoot gendernumber QuantifierCaseFigure 1.
General form of Noun MorphologySingular Form Plural Form=??J?E?
-Uchek (bird) =??J?E?
?`e -Ucheksing(birds)]   -Ma (He/She) ]?F?
?^  -Makhoy (they)]?
-Mi (man) ]??^?]
-Mi-yaam (men)Table 1: Singular/Plural formsAlthough case markers are functionallyinflectional, they exhibit the clitic like characteristicof docking at the edge of a phrase.
The wordstructure of rules of verbs and nouns are identicalexcept for the category of the word level node, thepossible terminal elements of the derivational andinflectional categories and the lack of the third levelnominal derivation.
Two examples to demonstratethe noun morphology are given below:-]J??X?Y??`eX?
(m?-ca-nu-pi-si?-n?)
?by his/herdaughters?]J??X?Y??`eX?
(m?-ca-nu-pa-si?- n?)
?by his/her sons?The ] -m?
?his/her?
is the pronominal suffix and J??
-ca?child?
is the noun root.
The X?
-nu ?human?
is suffixedby Y?
-pi to indicate a female human and Y?
?pa toindicate a male human.
?`e ?si?
or ?F?+ -khoy or ?^?
]?yaam can be used to indicate plurality.
-si?
cannot beused with pronouns or proper nouns and -khoycannot be used with nonhuman nouns.
X?
-n?
meaning?by the?
is the instrumental case marker.5.2 PronounsThe singular personal pronouns are B -?y ?I?, Xe -n???you?
and ]?
-ma ?he/she?.
Possessive pronouns areformed through the suffixation of ?E?
-ki ?genitive?
onthese personal pronouns.
Indefinite pronouns arealso lexicalized forms that consists of a questionword which may be followed by a?
-su ?also?
or thesequence E?????
-kumb?
composed of E??]
?kum, ?like?,?kind of?
and [?
?b?
?nominalizer?.
The strategy forcreating relative clause in Manipuri is to place therelativized noun directly after a normalized clause;there is no relative pronoun to mark the relativeclause.
The determiner may occur either as anindependent pronoun or encliticized on the nounphrase with no difference in meaning.
Thedeterminers ?a ?si ?proximate?
and T?
?tu ?distal?
arestems that function as enclitics.
?a ?si indicated thatthe object or person being spoken of is near orcurrently seen or known to be near., even if notviewable by the speaker, or is currently the topic ofconversation; T?
?-tu signifies something or someonenot present at the time of speech or newly introducedin the conversation.
Possessive pronominal prefixmay be affixed to the root `?
sa ?body?
to formpronouns emphasizing that the subject of the verb isa particular person or thing and no one or nothingelse: +`?X?
isan?
?by myself?
X`?X?
n?san?
?byyourself?
and ]`?X?
m?san?
?by him/her/itself/.
Theset of Manipuri Pronominal prefixes differ fordifferent persons (+  {I} for 1st person, X {Na} for 2ndperson and ]  {Ma} for 3rd person) while the set ofpronominal suffixes differ only on gender (Y?
?pa formasculine gender,  Y?
-Pi for feminine gender).5.3 VerbsVerbs roots are in the actual lexicon and are boundforms.
A verb may be free standing word if it isminimally suffixed by an inflectional marker.
Theverb root may also be followed by one of theenclitics.
Three derivational categories mayoptionally precede the final inflectional suffix.
The1st LD suffixes signal adverbial meanings, the 2nd LDsuffixes indicate evidentiality, the deitic reference of93a verb, or the number of persons performing theaction and the 3rd LD suffixes signal aspect andmood.
Verb roots may also be used to form verbalnouns, adjectives and adverbs.
Verbal nouns areformed through the suffixation of the nominalizer Y??p?
to the verb root.The following is the list of word structure rulesfor verbs (Chelliah, 1997)a. Verb ?
Root INFLb.
Root ?
Root (3rd LD)c. Root ?
Root (2nd LD)d. Root ?
Root (1st LD)e. Root ?
root (root)f. 3rd LD ?
(mood1)(mood2)(aspect)g. 2nd LD ?
(2nd LD1),(2nd LD2),(2nd LD3)..h. 1st LD ?
1st LDDerivationalPrefixationRoot1stLevelderivation2ndlevelderivation3rdlevelderivationInflectionFigure 2.
General form of Verb MorphologyThere are 3 categories (mood1, mood2, andaspect) belonging to the third level derivational (3rdLD) markers.
The general form of verb morphologyis shown in figure 2.The sub-categorization frames of affixes willrestrict that only nominal affixes occur with a nounand verbal affixes occur with a verb root.
Thederivational suffix order of the word ??J?E?F?+?[?h?
?X isgiven below:-??J?E?
F?+?
?[?E?
E            ?Xcek        ?khay                -r?k          -k?
-nicrack   -totally affect    -distal      -potential   ?copula(1st LD)          (2nd LD)     (3rd LD)The ?[?E?
-r?k  has allomorph _E?-l?k.
?[?E?
-r?k occursafter vowels while _E?-l?k occurs after consonants.Such allomorph is an example of orthographicchange and it is taken care by the system by makingindividual entries into the dictionary.?J???
[?E?A ?ca-r?k-y (ate there and came here)?J????
?E?A ?
cam-l?k-y (washed there and came here)The formation of verb can be of the formVerb stem + aspect/mood ?
verbUE?
-th?k (drink)  + ?_ -le- ?
UE?
?_ th?kle (has drunk)The verbal noun is formed with the rule as given asVerb Stem + Nominalizer ?
Verbal noun?U?e -thong (cook)+ [??
-ba  ?
?U?e[???
thongba  (to cook)5.4 AdjectivesAn adjective is derived through the affixation of theattributive, derivational prefix % ?- to a verbal noun.e.g.% -?
+ Verbal noun ?
Adjective% -?
+ ?a -si (die) + [??
-ba?>%?a[??
?siba (somethingdead)Adjectives may appear before or after the nounsthey modify.
Possessive adjectives are formedthrough the suffixation of the genitive marker ?E?
?kito the possessor of a noun.5.5 AdverbsManner adverbs are formed through suffixation of X??n?
?adverbial?
to a verb root.
e.g.
?_??^X?
loyn?
?completely, all?
from loy ?complete,finish?.
e.g.,Stem  +   X?
- na   ?
AdverbE?Y -K?p (cry)+ X?
- na  ?> E?YX?
-k?p-na (cryingly)Locative adverbs are derived through theprefixation of ] m?
?noun marker?
to a noun or verbroots.
e.g.
]F?
m?kha ?below, underneath?
from  F?kha ?south?6 Morphological analyses of some minorlexical categoriesThe three minor lexical categories of Manipuri arequantifiers, numerals and interjections.
These areconsidered minor categories because these lexicalitems are closed sets which express meanings mostoften encoded by affixal morphology.
The lexicalitems in interjection is defined on the semanticsimilarity of its members, all express strong emotion.946.1 QuantifiersMost quantifiers in Manipuri are lexicalized formsconsisting of the unproductive prefix khV- (where thevowel can be a, i, u).
These are F?[??
-kh?ra ?some?which indicates an indeterminate amount; ?FTe -khit??
?ever so little, a particle?
of some tangiblematerial.
These quantifiers can be combined as in<?`e   F?[??
?FT?e     Y??[?E?=.Ishi?
kh?ra    khit??
pur?k-u?Bring me just a little bit of water?.6.2 NumeralsThe numerals are nouns.
Ordinal numerals areadjectives, derived through the affixation of theattributive prefix % ??
and the nominalizer [??
?b?
toany numeral with ?
?su ?also?
: thus %?X?[??
?nisub?
?second one?.6.3 InterjectionsThe lexical items of this category which is defined onthe semantic similarity of its members, all expressstrong emotion.
Some of these are composite formswhere one syllable is identifiable as the exasperativeenclitic ?c?
?he and the second syllable is notidentifiable as a productive affix or stem.7 Manipuri TagsetThe basic Manipuri POS tag set used in the POStagger is listed below.
E??y??
E??y??
kukru kukru (apigeon?s cry) is ideophone.
T??
tu ?that?
is adeterminer.
c???^[?
?` haybasi is a determinercomplementizer.Sl.
No.
CategorynameTag1 adjective ADJ2 adverb ADV3 conjunction CONJ4 complementizer CMP5 determiner DET6 ideophone IDEO7 interjection INTJ8 noun N9 pronoun PN10 quantifier QU11 verb VB12 Verbal noun VN13 Unknown  UNKTable 2.
Manipuri POS tagset8 Design of Manipuri POS taggerIn Manipuri, the basic POS tags are assigned to thewords on the basis of morphological rules.
Figure 3shows the system diagram of Manipuri POS tagger.Input sentenceLexicalRulesTagged Output SentenceFigure 3.
System DiagramThe different parts involved in the system are:-a. Tokenizer: Words are separated based onthe space given between consecutive words.b.
Stemmer: It separates the prefixes andsuffixes from the words.c.
Engine: Different analysis and treatment ofdifferent words are performed based on thecategory.d.
Tag Generator: Tags are assigned to thewords in the sentence input based on thetagset and morphology rules.e.
Dictionaries:  Prefix, suffix and worddictionary along with sentences using thewords are maintained.Tokenizer StemmerEngineMajorLexicalCategoryModuleMinorLexicalCategorymoduleDictionariesTag Generator958.1 Algorithm of POS taggingAlgorithm used for tagging is as follows:-1.
Input the Manipuri input texts to theTokenizer.2.
Repeat steps 3 to 6 until the end of the textsfor each token.3.
Feed the tokens to the stemmer.4.
Check the patterns and order of the differentmorphemes by looking at the stem category.5.
Apply the handcrafted morphological rulesfor identifying the category using the engine.6.
Generate the POS tags using Tag generator.7.
End.The Visual C++, MsAccess and GIST SDK areused to develop the system.
The Manipuri words areentered into the dictionary using Bengali script (BN1TTBidisha font).9 EvaluationIn Manipuri, word category is not so distinct exceptNoun.
The verbs are also under bound category.Another problem is to classify basic root formsaccording to word class although the distinctionbetween the noun class and verb classes is relativelyclear, the distinction between nouns and adjectives isoften vague.
Distinction between a noun and anadverb becomes unclear because structurally a wordmay be a noun but contextually it is adverb.
Thus,the assumption made for word categories aredepending upon the root category and affixinformation available from the dictionaries.
At themoment, we use a sequential search of a stem fromthe root dictionary in alphabetical order.
It is foundto be suitable for small size dictionary.
Further a partof root may also be a prefix which leads to wrongtagging.
The verb morphology is more complex thanthat of noun.
A comparative study on the number ofwords tagged by the system and manually tagged hadbeen carried out.
The inputs of 3784 Manipurisentences of 10917 unique words as input to thetagger engine.
Sometimes two words get fused toform a complete word.
Handling such collocations isdifficult.
Conjuncts require a separate dealing using atable.
Verbs, nouns and noun phrases, subordinatesentences, and root sentences can be affixed byenclitics.
Table 4 shows the percentage statistics oftagging output based on the actual and correctlytagged words.
The accuracy of tagging can be furtherimproved by populating more root morphemes to theroot dictionary.No.
of single correct tagsAccuracy percentage=            X 100Total no.
of tokensGroup Types PercentageSingle tagged correct words 65%Multiple tagged correct words  4%Unknown words 23% ( 9%Named Entities)Wrong tagged words 8%Table 4.
Tagger output statisticsThe unknown words are the words which could notbe tagged based on the linguistic rules andunavailability of entries mainly in root dictionary.
Inthe process of word formation, only affixation:prefixing, suffixing or compounding takes the role offormation of new words in this language.
Due to thefact that new words are easily formed in Manipuri,thus the number of unknown words (out ofvocabulary) is relatively large (Sirajul et al, 2004).10 Challenges for future workThe noun group words handling are not incorporated.For example %F?E?
%?[?
?C (pronounced as ?khak ?raw)meaning thunderbolt, %I?]
%?[?
?+ FI?V[??
(pronounced as?
?am ?ray kh?
?d?ba) meaning wanton are noungroup words and are not tagged by the POS taggercorrectly.
The Noun-Adjective ambiguitydisambiguation scheme is required as a separatemodule and implementations are to be included in thefuture work.
The Manipuri tagging is very muchdependent on the morphological analysis and lexicalrules of each category.
There is a cleaning process ofall word and morphemes specially the spelling toensure that the lexical rules are implemented.
Thishas not yet been implemented.
Collocations handlingand more disambiguation rules will be developed infurther phases of the work.
The output of the POStagger will be used in a Manipuri-English machinetranslation system.ReferencesE.
Black, F. Jelinek, J. Lafferty, R. Mercer and S. Roukos.1992.
Decision tree models applied to labeling of texts96with parts of speech.
In DARPA Workshop on Speechand Natural Language.
San Mateo, CA, 1992, MorganKaufman.Eric Brill.
1992.
A simple rule-based part of speechtagger.
In Proceedings Third Conference on AppliedNatural Language Processing, ACL, Trento, Italy.Eric Brill.
1995.
Transformation-Based Error DrivenLearning and Natural Language Processing: A casestudy in Parts-Of-Speech tagging.
ComputationalLinguistics 21(94): pp 543-566.Sachin Burange, Sushant Devlakar, PushpakBhattacharyya.
2006.
Rule Governed Marathi POSTagging.
In Proceeding of  MSPIL, IIT Bombay, pp 69-78.Shobhana L. Chelliah.
1997.
A Grammar of Meithei.Mouton de  Gruyter, Berlin, pp 77-92.Sirajul Islam Choudhury, Leihaorambam Sarbajit Singh,Samir Borgohain, P.K.
Das.
2004.
MorphologicalAnalyzer for Manipuri: Design and Implementation.
InProceedings of AACC, Kathmandu, Nepal, pp 123-129.D.
Cutting.
1992.
A practical part-of-speech tagger.
InProceeding of third conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing.
ACL, 1992. pp 133-140.J.
Hajic, P. Krbec, P. Kveton, K. Oliva, V.Petkevic, 2001.A Case Study in Czech Tagging.
In proceedings of the39th Annual Meeting of the ACL.S.
Imoba.
2004.
Manipuri to English Dictionary.
S.Ibetombi Devi, Imphal.K.
Oflazer, I Kuruoz.
1994.
Tagging and morphologicaldisambiguation of Turkish text.
In Proceedings of 4thACL conference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing Conference.A.
Ratnaparakhi.
1996.
A maximum entropy Parts-Of-Speech Tagger.
In Proceedings EMNLP-ACL.
pp 133-142.Smriti Singh, Kuhoo Gupta, Manish Shrivastava, PushpakBhattacharya.
2006.
Morphological Richness offsetsResource Demand ?
Experiences in constructing a POStagger for Hindi.
In Proceedings of COLING-ACL,Sydney, Australia.Ch.
Yashawanta Singh.
2000.
Manipuri Grammar.
RajeshPublications, New Delhi.P.C.
Thoudam.
2006.
Problems in the Analysis ofManipuri Language.
www.ciil-ebooks.net, CIIL,Mysore.D.
S. Thoudam and S. Bandyopadhyay.
2006.
Word Classand Sentence Type Identification in ManipuriMorphological Analyzer.
In Proceedings of MSPIL,IIT Bombay, pp 11-17.9798
