Global Health Monitor - A Web-based System for Detecting andMapping Infectious DiseasesSon Doan*, QuocHung-Ngo?, Ai Kawazoe*, Nigel Collier** National Institute of Informatics,2-1-2 Hitotsubashi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo,Japan{doan,zoeai,collier}@nii.ac.jp?
University of Information Technology,Vietnam National University (HCM),Vietnamhungnq@uit.edu.vnAbstractWe present the Global Health Monitor, anonline Web-based system fordetecting and mapping infectious diseaseoutbreaks that appear in newsstories.
The system analyzes English newsstories from news feed providers,classifies them for topical relevance andplots them onto a Google map usinggeo-coding information, helping publichealth workers to monitor the spreadof diseases in a geo-temporal context.
Thebackground knowledge for thesystem is contained in the BioCaster ontol-ogy (BCO) (Collier et al, 2007a)which includes both information on infec-tious diseases as well asgeographical locations with their lati-tudes/longitudes.
The system consistsof four main stages: topic classification,named entity recognition (NER),disease/location detection and visualiza-tion.
Evaluation of the system showsthat it achieved high accuracy on a goldstandard corpus.
The system is nowin practical use.
Running on a cluster-computer, it monitors more than 1500news feeds 24/7, updating the map everyhour.1 IntroductionInformation concerning disease outbreak events ispublished in various news outlets on the WorldWide Web, in many different languages.
Identify-ing early news stories about disease outbreaksautomatically is important for a bio-surveillancesystem that is designed to inform health profes-sionals.
Currently, there are several systems avail-able for the disease detection and tracking task.
Forexample, ProMED-mail (2001) or MedISys (2007)(Medical Intelligence System).
ProMED-mail is anInternet-based system that provides reports by pub-lic health experts concerning outbreak diseases(that is, the system is not automatic but rather hu-man curated).
In contrast to ProMED-mail, MedI-Sys is an automatic system working on multilin-gual languages, but it mainly focuses on analyzingnews stories based on the country level.
Anothersystem which is close to the one we present isHealthMap (Brownstein and Freifeld,2007).
HealthMap automatically collects newsfrom the Internet about human and animal healthand plots the data on a Google Maps mashup.
Datais aggregated by disease and location.
UnlikeHealthMap, our system takes an ontology-centredapproach to knowledge understanding and linkageto external resources.
For annotation of topics andentities we also exploit a range of linguistic re-sources within a machine learning framework.There are several challenges in geo-coding whendealing with news stories.
The two main chal-lenges are disease/location extraction and geo-disambiguation.
The former is concerned with howto determine disease and location names for dis-ease-related news stories.
The latter is concernedwith how to solve geo-disambiguation.
For exam-ple, if there is a news story about equine influenzain Camden, the system should detect that the dis-ease name is ?equine influenza?
and the locationname is ?Camden?.
However, there are two loca-tions named Camden: One in Australia and one in951London, UK.
The problem is that only one locationshould be chosen for plotting into a map.
In ouropinion, current systems lack the advanced naturallanguage processing and text mining techniquesthat would enable the automatic extraction of suchdisease/location event information.BioCaster is a project working towards the detec-tion and tracking of infectious diseases using textmining techniques.
One of the main components isthe BioCaster Ontology (BCO), which includes 50infectious diseases with links to external vocabu-lary resources, and a geographical ontology of atotal of 243 countries and 4025 sub-countries(province and cities) with their lati-tudes/longitudes.
We also now automatically linknews on outbreaks to academic sources such asStanford university?s Highwire and NCBI?s Pub-Med using search terms Disease name + Locationname (Country) + ?case?.
This is to ensure a focuson recent case report relevant to the news items.The system includes four main stages: topic classi-fication, named entity recognition (NER), dis-ease/location detection, and visualization.
The cur-rent version of the system (English only) can befound at http://biocaster.nii.ac.jp.The remainder of this paper is organized as fol-lows.
Section 2 outlines the BioCaster Ontology(BCO).
Section 3 describes some features of thesystem (modules, functionality and algorithms).Section 4 is concerned with system evaluation.Finally, Section 5 outlines conclusions and pre-sents possible future work.2 Overview of BCOBCO is one of the main components in the Bio-Caster project.
It includes an ontology of 50 infec-tious diseases and a geographical ontology (243countries and 4,025 sub-countries).
The infectiousdisease ontology was built by a team consisting ofa linguist, an epidemiologist, a geneticist, and amedical anthropologist.
A disease in BCO has aroot name which is unique identifier and also otherproperties relating to synonyms, symptoms, asso-ciated syndromes, hosts, etc.
The ontology is mul-tilingual, supporting six languages (English, Japa-nese, Vietnamese, Thai, Korean, and Chinese); andhas links to external ontologies (such as MeSH,SNOMED and ICD9/10) and resources (likeWikipedia).
The geographical part is built fromWikipedia1.
The BCO is available on the Web athttp://biocaster.nii.ac.jp.
For a fuller description ofthe BCO, see Collier et al (2007a) and Kawazoe etal.
(2007).3 The System3.1 Overview of the systemThe Global Health Monitor system runs on a clus-ter machine with 16 nodes under the Linux operat-ing system.
The code was written in PHP, Perl, C,and Java and the number of input news feeds isabout 1,500.
The system has a crawler that collectsnews every hour.
These collected news stories arethen processed and analyzed step-by-step in fourmain phases: topic classification, named entityrecognition (NER), disease/location detection, andvisualization.
Each of the four phases is managedby a distinct module.
These components are de-picted in Figure 1.
The first three modules are runinside the system and the visualization module ?the Google Map ?
can be seen at the BioCasterportal.
Figure 2 shows a screenshot of the system.1 http://www.wikipedia.org.Figure 1.
Stages of the system.952We will now describe each of the four modules inturn:* Topic classification.
This module identifiesnews stories with disease-related topics and retainsrelevant ones for later processing.
The module usesontology-supported text classification with na?veBayes as the classification algorithm and the Bio-Caster gold standard corpus as the training data set(Doan et al, 2007).
In this module, we used theRainbow toolkit.2* NER.
Disease-related news stories are automati-cally analyzed and tagged with NEs like PERSON,ORGANIZATION, DISEASE, LOCATION.
Thismodule is implemented by SVM classification al2 Rainbow toolkit, available athttp://www.cs.umass.edu/~mccallum/bow/rainbowgorithm3.
For a more detailed description of theschema and NER module, see Kawazoe et al(2006).
* Disease/location detection.
This module extractsdisease and location information.
Details are givenin Section 3.2.
* Visualization.
The detected locations are plottedonto a Google map with ontology links to associ-ated diseases and news stories.3.2 Disease/location detection algorithmThe disease/location detection algorithm is basedon a statistical model of the LOCATION and DISEASE Named Entities (NEs).
The algorithm can bedescribed as follows:3 TinySVM, available athttp://chasen.org/~taku/software/TinySVM.Figure 2.
The Global Health Monitor system, showing disease events from the last 30 days.
The mainscreen is a Google Map.
Selected headline reports run along the bottom of the screen and link to biomedi-cal reference on PubMed, HighWire and Google Scholar.
Symbol    links to disease names in the BCOand symbol  stands for disease name not in the BCO.
The right of the screen shows various user optionsto filter the news.953Input: A set of news stories tagged with NEs.Output: A set of disease/location pairs.Step 1: Detect LOCATION-DISEASE pairs ineach news story by corresponding NEs, and calcu-late their frequency in a news story.Step 2: Calculate the frequency of LOCATION-DISEASE pairs in a corpus.Step 3: Rank LOCATION ?
DISEASE pairs bythe frequencies calculated in Step 2.
Use a thresh-old to choose top LOCATION - DISEASE names4.Step 4: Map disease and location names: If DIS-EASE matches to a synonym in BCO then DIS-EASE was assigned to that disease name.
Thisprocess of matching (grounding the terms) allowsus to provide extra information from the ontologyand to remove variant forms of terms from the map4 In the current system, we set the threshold value to 40.?
thereby aiding readability.
Similarly, if LOCA-TION matches to a location in BCO then LOCA-TION was assigned to that location name.Step 5: Re-map into news stories: Match detecteddiseases and locations within the first half of eachnews story.
If both disease and location arematched then they are stored; otherwise, skip.This five step process is repeated every hour, foreach news article that is less than 1 day (24 hours)old.3.3 Capabilities of the systemThe following lists some capabilities of the currentGlobal Health Monitor system.
* Date range: The system shows the dis-ease/location and news stories within a specificdate range.
Current implemented date ranges are:30 days ago, 3 weeks ago, 2 weeks ago, 1 weekago, this week and today.Figure 3.
The Global Health Monitor with the Respiratory Syndrome  selected.
The time span selected isthe current week.954* Genre filter: The system can show news storiesby publication type.
There are four genres of news:Press news (like Google News, Yahoo News), Of-ficial news (like ProMED, WHO reports), Businessnews, and Mixed news (like Topix.com).
* Similar stories: The system currently uses a sim-ple method to remove duplicate news stories.
Userscan use the ?Initial headline only?
option to acti-vate this function.
* Syndrome filter: There are six syndromes inBCO: Dermatological, Gastrointestinal, Hemor-harrgic fever, Musculoskeletal, Neurological, andRespiratory.
A syndrome can be associated withseveral diseases included in BCO.
The system canshow news stories related to these syndromes.
* Agent option: This option allows users to viewlists of infectious diseases which come from BCO.Some diseases though are not in the BCO.
Userscan choose some, all, or no diseases using a check-box style interface.Figure 3 shows the interface when users chooseSyndromes as Respiratory for this week at the cur-rent view.4 EvaluationTo evaluate any bio-surveillance system is verychallenging (Morse, 2007).
Our system is an inte-gration of several modules, e.g., classification,NER and other algorithms.
The evaluation proc-esses for these modules are briefly described be-low:4.1 Topic classificationEvaluation of topic classification is presented inDoan et al (2007).
The system used the BioCastergold standard corpus which includes 1,000 anno-tated news stories as training data.
The classifica-tion model is na?ve Bayes with features as raw text,NEs, and Roles (Doan et al, 2007).
The systemachieved an accuracy score of 88.10%.4.2 NER evaluationThe evaluation of the NER system module is re-ported in Kawazoe et al (2006).
We used an anno-tated corpus of 200 corpus news articles as trainingdata.
The NER system achieved an F-score of76.97% for all NE classes.4.3 Disease/location detectionFor the preliminary evaluation of disease/locationdetection, we used data from a one-month period(from October 12 to November 11, 2007).In our observations, the system detects about 25-30locations a day, an average of 40 infectious dis-eases and 950 detected pairs of diseases/locationsper month (A news story can contain multiple loca-tions and diseases).
The main news resourcesmostly come from Google News (251 pairs, about26.4%), Yahoo News (288 pairs, about 30.3%),ProMED-mail (180 pairs, about 18.9%), and theremaining 24.3% for others.
The running time forupdating disease/location takes about 5 minutes.In order to evaluate the performance of dis-ease/location detection, we define the Precisionand Recall as follows:pairsRetrieved#pairsRetrieved#pairsRelevant #Precision?
?,pairsRelevant #pairsRetrieved#pairsRelevant #Recall?
?Where #Relevant pairs is the number of dis-ease/location pairs that human found, and #Re-trieved pairs is the number of disease/location pairsthat the system detected.The Precision can be calculated based on our re-trieved pairs detected by the system, however theRecall is under estimated as it does not measurepairs missed by  the system in the topic classifica-tion stage.We evaluate the Precision of disease/location de-tection on 950 pairs of location/disease.
The sys-tem correctly detected 887 pairs, taking887/950=93.4% Precision.4.4 Limitations of the systemThere are some limitations of the system.
The firstlimitation is there are several cases of ambiguity.For example, news stories about ?A team at PekingUniversity in Beijing studied tissue taken from 2955people killed by H5N1 in China?
or ?A meeting onfoot and mouth disease (FMD) was held in Brus-sels on 17th October, 2007?.
The system incorrectlydetects the location as Beijing in the first story, andBrussels in the second one.
Another hard case islocation disambiguation, e.g., news about ?Rabiesin Isle of Wight?
in which in the main body doesnot mention anything about country and sub-country.
There are two locations named ?Isle ofWight?
in our geo-ontology: one in Virginia, USAand one in the UK.
In the future, we will look atthe country-level information of new providers (bychecking domain names) to solve this problem.
Forexample, if a news story mentions the Isle ofWight, and the news story originates from the UK,then it will be taken to refer to the Isle of Wight inthe UK.The second limitation is the ability to detect newdiseases or locations that are not in the ontology.
Inthe future work, we will augment newly detecteddiseases as well as improve the geographical on-tology.5 ConclusionWe presented the Global Health Monitor - a Web-based system for detecting and mapping infectiousdiseases from Web.
The system collects news fromnews feed providers, analyzes news and plots dis-ease relevant data onto a Google map.
Preliminaryevaluations show that our system works efficientlywith real data.In the future, we will develop more efficient algo-rithms for detecting diseases/locations based onrelation identification.
Named relation will be de-scribed in the BCO event taxonomy (Kawazoe etal., 2007).
Extra capabilities will be added to thesystem like classifying outbreak of disease bycountries, detecting new diseases that are not in outontology, and showing timeline of news stories.Evaluation of the timelineness system against hu-man curated sources like ProMED-mail will beimplemented.
Working versions for other lan-guages like Vietnamese, Japanese, and Thai arealso being considered, using the existing BioCasterdisease ontology.AcknowledgementsThe authors wish to thank Mike Conway at theNational Institute of Informatics for revising themanuscript, and both Mika Shigematsu and KiyosuTaniguchi at the National Institute of InfectiousDiseases for useful discussions.
This work wassupported by Grants-in-Aid from the Japan Societyfor the Promotion of Science (grant no.
18049071).ReferencesJ.
Brownstein and C. Freifeld.
2007.
HealthMap ?Global Disease Alert Mapping System.http://www.healthmap.org.N.
Collier, A. Kawazoe, L. Jin, M. Shigematsu, D.Dien, R. Barrero, K. Takeuchi, A. Kawtrakul.
2007a.A multilingual ontology for infectious disease out-break surveillance: rationale, design and challenges.Journal of Language Resources and Evaluation.
DOI:10.1007/s10579-007-9019-7.N.
Collier, A.Kawazoe, S. Doan, M. Shigematsu, K.Taniguchi, L. Jin, J. McCrae, H. Chanlekha, D. Dien,Q.
Hung, V.C.
Nam, K. Takeuchi, A. Kawtrakul.2007b.
Detecting Web Rumors with a MultilingualOntology - Supported Text Classification System.Advances in Disease Surveillance, pp.242, vol.4,2007.S.
Doan, A. Kawazoe, and N.Collier.
2007.
The Roles ofRoles in Classifying Annotated Biomedical Text.Proc.
of BioNLP - Biological, translational, and clini-cal language processing 2007, pp.17-24, 2007.A.
Kawazoe, L. Jin, M. Shigematsu, R. Barrero, K. Ta-niguchi and N. Collier.
2006.
The development of aschema for the annotation of terms in the BioCasterdisease detection/tracking system.
Proc.
of the Int?lWorkshop on Biomedical Ontology in Action (KR-MED 2006), Baltimore, Maryland, USA, November8, pp.
77-85, 2006.A.
Kawazoe, H. Chanlekha, M. Shigematsu and N. Col-lier.
2007.
Structuring an event ontology for diseaseoutbreak detection.
The 2nd International Sympo-sium on Languages in Biology and Medicine (LBM)(accepted to appear).MedISys.
2007.
Medical Intelligence System.http://medusa.jrc.it/medisys.S.
Morse S. 2007.
Global Infectious Disease Surveil-lance And HealthIntelligence.
Health Affairs, 26(4):1069-1077, 2007.ProMED-mail.
2001.
The Program for MonitoringEmerging Diseases.
http://www.promedmail.org.956
