Use of Event Types for Temporal Relation Identification in ChineseTextYuchang Cheng, Masayuki Asahara and Yuji MatsumotoGraduate School of Information ScienceNara Institute of Science and Technology8916-5 Takayama, Ikoma, Nara 630-0192, Japan{yuchan-c,masayu-a,matsu}@is.naist.jpAbstractThis paper investigates a machine learningapproach for identification of temporal re-lation between events in Chinese text.
Weproposed a temporal relation annotationguideline (Cheng, 2007) and constructedtemporal information annotated corpora.However, our previous criteria did not dealwith various uses of Chinese verbs.
Forsupplementing the previous version of ourcriteria, we introduce attributes of verbsthat describe event types.
We illustrate theattributes by the different examples of verbusages.
We perform an experiment toevaluate the effect of our event type attrib-utes in the temporal relation identification.As far as we know, this is the first work oftemporal relation identification betweenverbs in Chinese texts.
The result showsthat the use of the attributes of verbs canimprove the annotation accuracy.1 IntroductionExtracting temporal information in documents is auseful technique for many NLP applications suchas question answering, text summarization, ma-chine translation, and so on.
The temporal informa-tion is coded in three types of expressions: 1. tem-poral expressions, which describe time or period inthe actual or hypothetical world; 2. event or situa-tion expressions that occur at a time point or thatlast for a period of time; 3. temporal relations,which describe the ordering relation between anevent expression and a temporal expression, or be-tween two event expressions.There are many researches dealing with thetemporal expressions and event expressions.
Ex-tracting temporal expressions is a subtask ofNamed Entity Recognition (IREX committee, 1999)and is widely studied in many languages.
Normal-izing temporal expressions is investigated inevaluation workshops (Chinchor, 1997).
Event se-mantics is investigated in linguistics and AI fields(Bach, 1986).
However, researches at temporalrelation extraction are still limited.
Temporal rela-tion extraction includes the following issues: iden-tifying events, anchoring events on the timeline,ordering events, and reasoning with contextuallyunderspecified temporal expressions.
To extracttemporal relations, several knowledge resourcesare necessary, such as tense and aspect of verbs,temporal adverbs, and world knowledge (Mani, etal., 2006).In English, TimeBank (Pustejovsky, et al, 2006),a temporal information annotated corpus, is avail-able to machine learning approaches for automati-cally extracting temporal relation.
In Chinese, Li(2004) proposed a machine learning based methodfor temporal relation identification, but they con-sidered the relation between adjacent verbs in asmall scale corpus.
There is no publicly availableChinese resource for temporal information proc-essing.
We proposed (Cheng, 2007) a dependencystructure based method to annotate temporal rela-tions manually on a limited set of event pairs andextend the relations using inference rules.
In ourprevious research, the dependency structure helpsto detect subordinate and coordinate structures insentences.
Our proposed criteria can reduce themanual effort for annotating the temporal relationtagged corpus.Our research focuses on the relations betweenevents where they are assumed to be described byverbs.
Verbs in an article can represent events inactual world (which describe actual situations oractions) and events in hypothetical world (whichdescribe possible situations, imagination or back-ground knowledge).
However, our previous re-search does not define the class of event types.
Our31Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingprevious annotation guideline requires annotatorsto decide the attributes of temporal relations of averb by annotators?
own judgment but does notdescribe the difference between events (verbs) inactual and hypothetical world.In this paper, we attempt to give the definitionof actual / hypothetical world events (verbs).
Wecollect usages of verbs in Penn Chinese treebankand classify them to actual / hypothetical worlds.We add another attribute to our previous criteria.Then we train the temporal relation annotated cor-pus to investigate the effect of using the eventtypes for automatic annotation.In the next section, we describe the criteria oftemporal relations between events that are pro-posed in our previous research (Cheng, 2007).
Insection 3, we discuss the event types of verbs anddefine the actual / hypothetical world events.
Insection 4, we perform an experiment of a machinelearning based temporal relation identifier with andwithout the event type information.
Finally, wediscuss the results of experiments and our futuredirection.2 Temporal relations between eventsWe propose an annotation guideline for developinga Chinese temporal relation annotated corpus.
Theguideline is based on TimeML (Saur?, 2005) andfocuses on the temporal relations between events.To reduce manual effort, we introduce several con-straints on the original TimeML.
First, we restrictthe definition of events to verbs.
Second, we focuson three types of event pairs according to syntacticdependency structure.2.1 The definition of the eventsAccording to the TimeML guideline for English,verbs, nominalized verbs, adjectives, predicativeand prepositional phrases can represent events.However, to recognize an instance of nominalizedverb represents whether an event or not is difficultin Chinese articles.
Chunking phrases and clausesis another difficult process in Chinese.
To simplifythe process of recognizing events, the criteria onlyregard verbs as events.2.2 Three types of event pairsThe criteria of temporal relation between eventsinclude three types of event pairs in the completegraph as follows: RLP (Relation to Linear Preceding event):Relation between the focus event and the ad-jacent event at the immediately proceedingposition.
(Relation of adjacent event pair). RTA (Relation to Tree Ancestor event):Relation between the focus event and theancestor event in a dependency structure(Relation of Head-modifier event pair). RTP (Relation to Tree Preceding event):Relation between the focus event and its sib-ling event in a dependency structure (Rela-tion of Sibling event pair).The first type stands for the adjacent event pairs.The second and third types are the head-modifierevent pairs and the sibling event pairs in depend-ency tree representation of a sentence.
Figure 1describes the relation of three types of event pairsin an article.
There are two sentences with twelveevents (from e1 to e12) in the figure and the poly-gons with dashed-lines show the boundary of sen-tences.
The angle-line links show adjacent eventpairs (from Ll-1 to Ll-11).
The dotted-line linksshow head-modifier event pairs (from Hl-1 to Hl-10) and the curve links show sibling event pairs(from Sl-1 to Sl-6).
The first type (adjacent eventFigure 1: The example of annotating the temporal relations between events.e5e2 e4 e6e1 e3 e7e11e9 e10 e12e8Legend:Sl-1Sl-3Sl-4Sl-6Hl-1 Hl-2Hl-3 Hl-4 Hl-5Hl-6 Hl-7Hl-8 Hl-9 Hl-10Ll-1 Ll-2 Ll-3Ll-4 Ll-5Ll-6 Ll-7 Ll-8Ll-9 Ll-10 Ll-11Adjacent event pair: Ll-XHead-modifier event pair: Hl-XSibling event pair: Sl-XSentence 1 Sentence 2Sl-5Sl-232Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingpairs) and the other two types (head-modifier orsibling event pairs) are not exclusive.
An eventpair can be a head-modifier event pairs and can bea head-modifier event at the same time.The adjacent event pair links and the siblingevent pair links can be used to connect the tempo-ral relations between sentences.
The links Sl-4 andLl-7 span two sentences in the example.Subordinate event pairs are head-modifier rela-tions and coordinate event pairs are sibling rela-tions.
Using dependency structure can help to ex-tract subordinate relations and coordinate relationsin a sentence.2.3 Deficiency of our previous criteriaOur criteria can reduce manual effort of temporalrelation annotation.
However, our previous guide-line does not distinguish actual world and hypo-thetical world events.
Because all verbs in the pre-vious guideline are regarded as events, verbs ofhypothetical world events are also included in theevents.
For example: (the italicized words in ourexamples indicate verbs) (a) ???/??/?/??/??/??
(afterthe industrial estate was established, it at-tracted a great deal of foreign capital) (b) ???/??/?/??/??/??/??
(after the industrial estate is established, itcan attract a great deal of foreign capital)The difference between examples (a) and (b) isonly with or without the word ???
(can)?, whichgoverns a verb phrase and explains a possiblesituation.
It should be noted that verbs in Chinesedo not have morphological change.
The completemeaning of verbs in the examples should considerthe global context in the article.
The example (a)explains an actual world event that the industrialestate attracted a great deal of foreign capital.However, in example (b), the word ???
(can)?changes  the phrase ???/??/??
(to attract agreat deal of foreign capital)?
into a hypotheticalworld event.
This clause presents a possibility anddoes not indicate an event in the actual world.Considering the temporal relation between theverbs ???(establish)?
and ???
(attract)?,  thetemporal relation in the example (a) means thatthe event ??
(establish) occurs before the event??(attract).
On the other hand, in the example(b), the verb ???(attract)?
indicates a possibility.We cannot make sure if it could really happen.
Weregard that the temporal relation in the example (b)is unidentifiable.
In the previous guideline, we re-quest annotators to decide the temporal relationbetween them.
However we do not classify the dif-ference between actual and hypothetical worlds.The annotators annotate even some incomprehen-sible temporal relations (such as the relation in ex-ample (b)) with the tag ?unknown?.
We clarify theissue by introducing event types to verbs.Aside form the problem of actual and hypotheti-cal world events, verbs in our temporal relationannotated corpus still include some incomprehen-sible events (We consider these in the next section).For solving these problems, we investigated differ-ent types of events (verbs) in the Penn ChineseTreebank (Palmer, 2005) then give a clear classifi-cation of event types.
We use this classification ofevents to annotate events in the temporal relationtagged corpus.3 Event types of verbsOur criteria restrict events to verbs according to thePOS-tag of Penn Chinese Treebank.
Therefore, allthe words tagged with the POS-tags (Xia, 2000),?VA?, ?VE?, ?VC?, and ?VV?
are the ?event can-didates?.
However, these POS-tags include notonly actual world events but also hypotheticalworld events, modifiers of nouns, and sub-segments of named entities.
We will exemplifythese situations in this section.3.1 Verbs of actual world eventsThe ?event?
that we want to annotate is an actionor situation that has happened or will definitelyhappen in the actual world.
We define these eventsas actual world events.
For example: (c) ??/??/??
(A fire occurred in themarket.
) (d) ???/??/??/??/??
(Theconstruction work of the city hall will finishat the end of the year.
) (e) ??/??/??/??
(The function offinancial market is smooth.
)The verbs in these examples represent actualworld events.
We want to distinguish betweenthese events and hypothetical world events.The example (c) is a general instance of an ac-tual world event.
The verb ???
(happen)?
in the33Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingsentence indicates an occurrence of an event.
Theverb ???
(finish)?
in example (d) is a confirma-tive result that definitely happens.
The word ???(will)?
indicates that the sentence describes a fu-ture statement.
If there is no other statement thatdescribes an accident event in the context, we cantrust the event in the example (d) is an actual worldevent.In Chinese, an adjective can be a predicate with-out a copula (corresponding to the verb ?be?).
Theexample (e) contains no copula.
Still, the adjective???
(smooth)?
is a predicate and represents anactual world situation.
This kind of adjective is thePOS-tag ?VA?
in Penn Chinese Treebank and alsocan represent an actual world event.3.2 Verbs of hypothetical world eventsSometime verbs indicate hypothetical world events.In such situations, verbs describe a possibility, astatement of ability, anticipation, a request or aninconclusive future.
For example: (b) ???/??/?/??/??/??/??
(after the industrial estate is established, itcan attract a great deal of foreign capital) (g) ???/?/??/????
(A big oiltanker can berth at the new port) (h) ??
/??
/??
/??
/??
/??
(They wish the government to legislateagainst affiliated bill) (i) ??/??/??/??/??
(The gov-ernment requires the factory to amend theirequipments) (j) ?/??/???/??/??/??
(thistechnology can help to develop a new kindof medicine)The verb ???
(attract)?
in example (b) ex-plains a possibility that ?may?
occur after a con-firmative result ???
(establish)?
in future.
Wecannot decide the temporal relation between theactual world event ???
(establish)?
and the pos-sible event ???
(attract)?
in the example (b), be-cause we do not know if the event ???
(attract)?will realize.The verb ???
(berth)?
in example (g) explainsthe capacity of the new port.
The verb ???(berth)?
does not indicate truth or a confirmativeresult.
We cannot confirm when an oil tanker willberth at the new port.
This verb represents a hypo-thetical world event.
The verb ???
(legislate)?
inthe example (h) and the verb ???(amend)?
in theexample (i) explain a wish and a request.
Even thesentences describe that the government (in the ex-ample (h)) or the factory (in the example (i)) wasrequired to do something; the descriptions do notshow any evidence that the request will be exe-cuted.
Although the wish and request will be real-ized in future, we cannot identify the time point ofthe realization of these events.
Therefore weshould consider that these verbs represent hypo-thetical world events.The verb ???
(develop)?
in the example (j)explains an inconclusive plan in future.
The devel-oped technology can be used for a new develop-ment plan.
However, we also cannot make sure ifthe development plan will be realized or not.
Wecannot identify the verb ???
(develop)?
on atimeline.
Since the verb represents a hypotheticalworld event.These examples (from the examples (b), (g) to(j)) indicate hypothetical world events.
However,as we introduced in section 2.3 (the examples (a)and (b)), the instances with different types ofevents have the same context in local structure (thephrase ???/??/??
(to attract a great deal offoreign capital)?).
The difference between the ex-ample (a) and the example (b) is that the word ???
(can)?
exists or not.
To distinguish an actualworld event and a hypothetical world event withsimilar local context, the dependency structureanalysis is quite helpful.3.3 Copula verbsThere are two special POS-tags of verbs in PennChinese Treebank, VC and VE.
These verbs arecopulas in Chinese.
The copula verb (such as theverb ??
(be)?)
indicates existence and corre-sponds to ?be?
in English.
In TimeML, these copu-las are not considered as an independent verb.
It isincluded in another verb phrase or in a nominalphrase that represents an event.
However, the cop-ula verb ??
(be)?
is an independent verb in PennChinese Treebank.
We should investigate how todeal with this copula verb.
For example: (k) ?/??/?/???/??/?
(The olderversion of bill was legislated at three yearsago.
)34Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processing (l) ?/??/?/???/??/?/????
(The company is the largest electric powercompany in the world.
)Considering the use of copula in Penn ChineseTreebank, sentences that include copula verbs canbe distinguished to two types.
The copula verbsdescribe existence.
The existence could be a verbphrase (the example (k)) or a nominal phrase (theexample (l)).
In the example (k), the verb phrase????/??
(was legislated at three years ago)?represents an event that the copula verb accentu-ates the existence of  the verb phrase.
Althoughthere are two verbs in the example (k), the sentenceonly includes an event which is the verb phrase????/??
(was legislated at three years ago)?.According to the dependency structure of sen-tence, copula verbs represent the root of the de-pendency structure and the head of a verb phrasethat modifies a copula verb.
We define a pair of acopula and a verb that modifies the copula as a?copula phrase?.
Therefore we regard the copulaverb in the example (k) as the main verb of theverb phrase ???
(legislate)?
and it represents anactual world event1.The copula verb ??
(be)?
in the example (l) ac-centuates the truth of the nominal phrase ????/??/?/????
(the largest electric power com-pany in the world)?.
According to the discussion inthe previous paragraph, the meaning of this copulacomes from the nominal phrase.
We can recognizethe nominal phrase as a truth at the time point?NOW?
(the company is largest in the world now).However, this phrase does not indicate any specificperiod of time that the fact holds.
We can regard itas the background knowledge and it does not in-clude an event.
To identify the temporal relationbetween this noun phrase and other actual worldevent is impossible2.
We also regard this copulaverb as a hypothetical world event.3.4 Non-event verbs1 Whether the copula verbs are actual world events or hypo-thetical world events depend on the modifier verb phrases.2 We cannot know when the company became the largest oneon the world.
And other events in the context distribute in ashorter period on a timeline.
Therefore to compare the exis-tence period of the truth and other events is impossible.
How-ever, if a temporal expression with a passed time period in thecontext, the truth could have a boundary of occurrence time.Then the copula can be recognized as an actual world event.There are several types of words that have a verbalPOS-tag but do not represent events.
These wordsinclude non-event predicative adjectives andnamed entities.In Chinese, adjectives can be predicates of asentence without verbs.
This kind of adjectives arepredicative adjective and have a POS-tag ?VA?
inPenn Chinese Treebank.
These predicative adjec-tives indicate situations.
However, some instancesin the Treebank are close to normal adjectives.
Weshould distinguish the difference between thepredicative adjectives that describe situations andpredicative adjectives that are normal adjectives.For example: (e) ??/??/??/??
(The function offinancial market is smooth.
) (n)??
/?
/?/??
(To provide a newkind of power)The adjective ???
(smooth)?
in the example(e) indicates a situation.
We regard this adjectiveas an actual world event.
However, the adjective??
(new)?
in the example (n) is a modifier of thenoun ???
(power)?.
This adjective do not indi-cate a situation, therefore it dose not represent anevent.Another situation of non-event verbs is a verb ina named entity.
Because of the strategy of thePOS-tagging of Penn Chinese Treebank, a namedentity is separated to several words and thesewords are tagged independently.
For example: (o) ???/??/??/??
(Alliance ofDemocratic Forces for Liberating Congo-Zaire)?The example (o) shows a named entity that in-cludes a word ???
(liberate)?
has the POS-tag?VV?.
However, this verb does not represent anactual event or a hypothetical event.
It is a sub-string of the named entity.
We define this kind ofverbs as non-event verbs.3.5 Attribute of event typesFigure 2 summarizes the event types of verbs insection 3.1-3.4.
We divide the verbs roughly intotwo types ?actual world?
and ?hypothetical world?.Each type includes several sub-types.
We annotatethese two event types of verbs to our previoustemporal relation annotated corpus.
The definitionof these event types in previous sections is a guide-line for our annotators.
This new attribute has two35Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingvalues ?actual world?
and ?hypothetical world?.Although the types of values are coarse-grained,this attribute can describe whether a verb can berecognized as an event with understandable tempo-ral relation on the timeline or not.However, the value ?hypothetical world?
of theevent types means not only that the verbs with thisvalue are temporal relation un-recognizable events,but also that the verbs with this value are ?locallyrecognizable?
events.
For example: (p) ??/??/??/??/??/?/??/??
(They wish the government to in-crease budget to repair the bank)The verb ???
(wish)?
governs the verb phrase???/??/??/?/??/??
(the governmentincreases budget to repair the bank)?.
Therefore theverb phrase represents a hypothetical world event(because we do not know if the government will doit or not).
However, considering the local contextof the verb phrase, it includes two verbs that have acausal relation between them.
The event ???(increase)?
should occur before the event ???(repair)?3.
The temporal relation between the twoverbs exists in the local context.
We do not ignorethis kind of temporal relations and annotate them.The temporal relation between the verb ???
(in-crease)?
and the verb ???
(repair)?
is not un-known but the temporal relation between the verbs???
(increase)?
and the verb ???
(wish)?
isunknown.Therefore, we regard the attribute of event typeas a ?bridge?
between an actual world and a hypo-thetical world.
The event in the actual world meansthat we can identify the temporal relation between3 The government must increase the budget and pass the delib-eration in the congress, and then the budget can be used torepair the bank.an event and the other occurred events in an actualworld.
The temporal relations between a hypo-thetical world event and an actual world event canonly be identified in a hypothetical world.
Figure 3describes this concept.
The index on each eventindicates the linear ordering of the event mentionin the article.
The two events with rectangles rep-resent the actual world and the four events withdiamond shapes represent the hypothetical world.There is no understandable temporal relation be-tween actual and hypothetical worlds (for examplethe relation between the event 1 and event 2).
Theevents in hypothetical world have their temporalrelation with other events in the same hypotheticalworld.
However, a hypothetical world is independ-ent to other hypothetical worlds.
Therefore, thetemporal relation between event 2 and event 3 un-derstandable but the relation between event 3 andevent 4 are unknown.
We ask our annotators toannotate the understandable temporal relations ineach hypothetical world because the instances ofthe local context are useful in analyzing the tempo-ral relation between events in actual world by ma-chine learning.4 Evaluation ExperimentsFigure 3: The actual world and hypotheticalworldsHYPOTHETICAL WORLD 2ACTUAL WORLDHYPOTHETICAL WORLD 1Event 1 Event 5Event2Event3Event4Event6UNKNOWNUNKNOWNUNKNOWN UNKNOWNUNKNOWNRELATION RELATIONRELATIONFigure 2: The classifications of event typesEVENThypothetical worldactual worldhappenedtruthuncertainfuture (b), (j)certainfuture (d)wish(h)requisition (i),(p)ability (g)non-eventhappened truth as amodifier of copula(k)normal occurrence(a),(c)modifier withoutevent (n)back groundknowledge (l)uncertaindesirename entity(o)Note: the characters in the brackets refer to the examples of each event typestatement(e)36Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language ProcessingAfter we manually annotate the event type of verbson our temporal relation tagged corpus, we usesupport vector machines as machine learner tocompose a temporal relation identifier.
We per-form an experiment to investigate the effect of theevent type information.4.1 The data setWe annotated a part of Penn Chinese Treebankwith our previous criteria.
The temporal relationtagged corpus includes 7520 verbs.
Each verb hasthree types of temporal relation that we introducein section 2.3.
We annotate the event type informa-tion manually and refine some ambiguous in-stances.
For efficiency, we introduce grouping onthe temporal relation classes.
Our criteria definedten classes of temporal relation values.
We com-pose three types of temporal relation identifiers(RLP, RTA and RTP) and an event type classifier.To discriminate the event types of verbs, we addtwo possible values of temporal relations, the value?hypothetical?
and ?copula-existence?.
The value?hypothetical?
is introduced in the temporal rela-tion type ?RTA?.
If the verb represents a hypo-thetical world event or non-event, the verb is en-closed into the hypothetical world.
The verb in hy-pothetical world cannot have a RLP relation (Rela-tion of adjacent event pair) between hypotheticaland actual worlds.
However, for recognizing theverb that is the root event of the hypothetical world,we annotate the RTA relation (Relation of adjacentevent pair) of the root event in hypothetical worldas the value ?hypothetical?.
The value ?copula-existence?
is introduced to annotate the event em-phasized by the copula verb.
If the copula verbgoverns a verb phrase with several verbs, the rootevent of the verb phrase has the value ?copula-existence?.The possible values of three types of temporalrelations and event types in our experiment aresummarized as follows: Event types: actual world and hypotheticalworld RLP: after (includes the values ?after?
and?begun-by?
in our criteria), before (includesthe values ?before?
and ?end-by?
in our cri-teria), simultaneous, overlap (includes thevalues ?overlap?, ?overlapped-by?, ?in-clude?, ?during?
our criteria) RTA: after, before, simultaneous, overlap,unknown, copula-existence, hypothetical RTP: after, before, simultaneous, overlapThe training data for SVMs includes 151 articleswith 49620 words and 7520 verbs and the testingdata is collected from articles in Penn ChineseTreebank other than training data (testing data in-cludes 50 short articles with 5010 words and 732verbs).
The basic information of our corpus and thedistribution of the value of attributes in our trainingand testing data are shown in Table 1.
It should benoted that the number of the attributes of the dataignore some negligible instances.
Such as, if a verbdoes not have sibling verbs in the dependencystructure, to consider the attribute ?RTP (Relationbetween focus event and its sibling event)?
is un-necessary.
Therefore the total numbers of the at-tribute ?RTA?
and the attribute ?RTP?
are lessthan the number of all verbs.4.2 ExperimentWe train each classifier (event types, RLP, RTAand RTP) by an independent model.
The featuresfor machine learning are also tuned independently.We evaluate the accuracy of automatic annotationof event types and temporal relations with andwithout our event types.
We use our event type tagas a feature of the three temporal relations.
Otherfeatures for SVM analyzer to annotate the threetypes of temporal relations include the morpho-logical information of the focus event pair and thedependency structure of the sentence.
These fea-tures can be extracted from the dependency struc-tures automatically.The results are shown in Table 2.
The abbrevia-tions ?R?, ?P?
and ?F?
mean ?Recall?, ?Precision?and ?F-measure?.
The row ?Accuracy w/o eventtype?
means the results of the temporal relationsannotating without using the event type as a feature.Other rows use the event type which is annotatedTable 1: The distribution of our data setactual world: 453hypothetical world: 279actual world: 4584hypothetical world:2936Test Test TestTrainTrainTrainTest (732 verbs)2347522036101552391631563191817322162475139278261155537520TotalTrain (7520 verbs)Event Types7042157Unknown41715879610111864580RTAcopula-existence85212overlap3721273before525925RTP13912487hypotheticalaftersimultaneousRLP37Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingby a machine learning-based analyzer as a feature.Because there is no similar related research thatanalyzes temporal relation between Chinese verbsbased on machine learning, we cannot make anycomparison.
We discuss the accuracy of temporalrelation annotating with and without using ourevent type according to the result of our experi-ment.4.2 DiscussionsTable 2 shows that the model with the result of theevent type classifier is better than that without us-ing the result of the event type classifier.
However,the improvement of using event types is limited.The reason might be the accuracy of event type isas low as 83%.
To improve the performance ofevent type annotation helps to improve the relationannotation.There is no research based on the same data setand corpus guideline, therefore we can not com-pare the result to other research.
However, in theshared task: ?TempEval4 Temporal Relation Identi-fication?
(Verhagen, 2007), the task ?temporal re-lations between matrix verbs?
resembles the goalof our corpus.
The F-measure in TempEval sharedtask distribute between 40%~50%.
The result ofthe shared task also shows the difficulty of auto-matic temporal relation analysis.5 Conclusions  and future directionsWe propose a machine learning-based temporalrelation identification method.
This is the firstwork of the temporal relation identification be-tween verbs in Chinese texts.
To deal with the de-ficiency in our previous temporal relation annotat-4 This shared task deals with English news articles.
(TimeBank1.2)ing criteria, we newly introduce the event types ofChinese verb.
The result of evaluation experimentsshows that the event type information helps to im-prove the accuracy of the identifier.A deficient of our experiment is that we do notuse semantic information as features for machinelearner.
Semantic information of temporal andevent expressions is important for recognizingtemporal relations between events.
As a future re-search, we would like to introduce causal relationknowledge of verbs (this is similar to VerbOcean(Chklovski, 2004)).
We are collecting this kind ofverb pairs and expect that this causal relation helpsto improve the performance of automatic annota-tion.ReferencesEmmon Bach.
1986. the algebra of events.
Linguisticsand Philosophy 9.Yuchang Cheng, et al 2007.
Constructing a TemporalRelation Tagged Corpus of Chinese based on De-pendency Structure Analysis.
TIME 2007.Timothy Chklovski and Patrick Pantel.
2004.
VerbO-cean: Mining the Web for Fine-Grained SemanticVerb Relations.
EMNLP 2004.Nancy Chinchor.
1997.
MUC-7 named entity task defi-nition.http://www.itl.nist.gov/iaui/894.02/related_projects/muc/proceedings/muc_7_proceedings/overview.html.Wenjie Li, et al 2004.
Applying Machine Learning toChinese Temporal Relation Resolution.
ACL 2004.Inderjeet Mani, et al 2006.
Machine Learning of Tem-poral Relations.
COLING/ACL 2006.IREX Committee.
1999.
Named entity extraction taskdefinition.
http://nlp.cs.nyu.edu/irex/NE/df990214.txt,1999.Martha Palmer, et al 2005.
Chinese Treebank 5.1.http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/.
LDC.James Pustejovsky, et al 2006.
TimeBank 1.2.http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/.
LDC.Roser Saur?, et al 2005.
TimeML Annotation Guidelines.http://www.timeml.org/.Marc Verhagen, et al 2007.
SemEval-2007 Task 15:TempEval Temporal Relation Identification.
ACL2007 Workshop: SemEval-2007.Fei Xia.
2000.
The Part-Of-Speech Tagging Guidelinesfor the Penn Chinese Treebank.http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~chinese/ctb.html.Table 2: The results of our experiment0.610.600.61Accuracy w/oEvent type0.700.450.330.460.67F0.720.620.690.320.730.52F0.710.510.330.500.65FP P PRRR0.6810.350.520.630.670.680.810.320.680.640.6910.350.510.620.610.630.62Accuracy0.740.73unknown0.800.570.60.310.810.45RTAcopula-existence0.290.45overlap0.420.45before0.320.71RTP0.320.70hypotheticalaftersimultaneousRLP0.83Accuracy0.770.760.780.920.910.93R /P /Fhypothetical worldactual worldEvent Types38Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processing
