Proceedings of the IJCNLP-08 Workshop on NLP for Less Privileged Languages, pages 59?64,Hyderabad, India, January 2008. c?2008 Asian Federation of Natural Language ProcessingStrategies for sustainable MT for Basque:incremental design, reusability, standardization and open-sourceI.
Alegria, X. Arregi, X. Artola, A. Diaz de Ilarraza, G. Labaka,M.
Lersundi, A.
Mayor, K. SarasolaIxa taldea.University of the Basque Country.i.alegria@ehu.esAbstractWe present some Language Technologyapplications that have proven to be effec-tive tools to promote the use of Basque, aEuropean less privileged language.
We alsopresent the strategy we have followed foralmost twenty years to develop those appli-cations as the top of an integrated environ-ment of language resources, languagefoundations, language tools and other ap-plications.
When we have faced a difficulttask such as Machine Translation toBasque, our strategy has worked well.
Wehave had good results in a short time justreusing previous works for Basque, reusingother open-source tools, and developingjust a few new modules in collaborationwith other groups.
In addition, new reus-able tools and formats have been produced.1 Introduction and Basque LanguageBasque is a highly inflected minority languagewith free order of sentence constituents.
MachineTranslation for Basque is thus both, a real need anda test bed for our strategy to develop NLP tools forBasque.Basque is an isolate language, and little isknown of its origins.
It is likely that an early formof the Basque language was already present inWestern Europe before the arrival of the Indo-European languages.Basque is an agglutinative language, with a richflexional morphology.
In fact for nouns, forexample, at least 360 word forms are possible foreach lemma.
Each of the declension cases such asabsolutive, dative, associative?
has four differentsuffixes to be added to the last word of the nounphrase.
These four suffix variants correspond toundetermined, determined singular, determinedplural and ?close?
determined plural.Basque is also an ergative-absolutive language.The subject of an intransitive verb is in theabsolutive case (which is unmarked), and the samecase is used for the direct object of a transitiveverb.
The subject of the transitive verb (that is, theagent) is marked differently, with the ergative case(shown by the suffix -k).
This also triggers mainand auxiliary verbal agreement.The auxiliary verb, which accompanies mostmain verbs, agrees not only with the subject, butwith the direct object and the indirect object, ifpresent.
Among European languages, thispolypersonal system (multiple verb agreement) isonly found in Basque, some Caucasian languages,and Hungarian.
The ergative-absolutive alignmentis rare among European languages, but notworldwide.Although in last centuries Basque sufferedcontinuous regression it still remains alive.
Theregion in which Basque is spoken is smaller thanwhat is known as the Basque Country, and thedistribution of Basque speakers is nothomogeneous there.
The main reasons of thisregression (Amorrortu, 2002) are that Basque wasnot an official language, and that it was out ofeducational system, out of media and out ofindustrial environments.
Besides, the fact of beingsix different dialects made the wide developmentof written Basque difficult.However, after 1980, some of those featureschanged and many citizens and some local59governments promote recovering of BasqueLanguage.Today, Basque holds co-official language statusin the Basque regions of Spain: the wholeautonomous community of the Basque Countryand some parts of Navarre.
Basque has no officialstanding in the Northern Basque Country.In the past, Basque was associated with lack ofeducation, stigmatized as uneducated, rural, orholding low economic and power resources.
Thereis not such an association today; Basque speakersdo not differ from Spanish or French monolingualsin any of these characteristics.Standard Basque, called Batua (unified) inBasque, was defined by the Academy of BasqueLanguage (Euskaltzaindia) in 1968.
At present, itsmorphology is completely standardized, but thelexical standardization process is still underway.Now this is the language model taught in mostschools and used on some media and officialpapers published in Basque.Basque speakers are about 700,000, about 25%of the total population of the Basque Country, butthey are not evenly distributed.
Still the use ofBasque in industry and specially in Informationand Communication Technology is notwidespread.
A language that seeks to survive in themodern information society has to be present alsoin such field and this requires language technologyproducts.
Basque, as other minority languages, hasto make a great effort to face this challenge (Petek,2000; Williams et al, 2001).2 Strategy to develop Human LanguageTechnology (HLT) in BasqueIXA group is a research Group created in 1986 by5 university lecturers in the computer science fac-ulty of the University of the Basque Country withthe aim of laying foundations for research and de-velopment of NLP software mainly for Basque.We wanted to face the challenge of adaptingBasque to language technology.Twenty one years later, now IXA is a groupcomposed of 28 computer scientists, 13 linguistsand 2 research assistants.
It works in cooperationwith more than 7 companies from Basque Countryand 5 from abroad; it has been involved in the birthof two new spin-off companies; and it has devel-oped more than seven language technology prod-ucts.In recent years, several private companies andtechnology centers in the Basque Country havebegun to get interested and to invest in this area.
Atthe same time, more agents have come to be awareof the fact that collaboration is essential to the de-velopment of language technologies for minoritylanguages.
One of the fruits of this collaborationare HIZKING21 (2002-2005) and ANHITZ (2006-2008) projects.
Both projects were accepted by theGovernment of the Basque Country in a newstrategical research line called ?Language Infoen-gineering?.At the very beginning, twenty years ago, ourfirst goal was just to create a Spanish-Basquetranslation system, but after some preliminarywork we realized that instead of wasting our timein creating an ad hoc MT system with small accu-racy, we had to invest our effort in creating basictools such as a morphological analyzer/generatorfor Basque, that could later be used to build notonly a more robust MT system but also other ap-plications.This thought was the seed to design our strategyto make progress in the adaptation of Basque toLanguage Technology.
Basque language had toface up scarcity of resources and tools that couldmake possible its development in Language Tech-nology at a reasonable and competitive rate.We presented an open proposal for making pro-gress in Human Language Technology (Aduriz etal., 1998).
Anyway, the steps proposed did not cor-respond exactly with those observed in the historyof the processing of English, because the high ca-pacity and computational power of new computersallowed facing problems in a different way.Our strategy may be described in two points:1) The need for standardization of resources tobe useful in different researches, tools and applica-tions2) The need for incremental design and devel-opment of language foundations, tools, and appli-cations in a parallel and coordinated way in orderto get the best benefit from them.
Language foun-dations and research are essential to create any toolor application; but in the same way tools and ap-plications will be very helpful in the research andimprovement of language foundations.Following this strategy, our steps on standardi-zation of resources led us to adopt TEI and XMLstandards and also to define a methodology for60stand-off corpus tagging based on TEI, featurestructures and XML (Artola et al, 2005).In the same way, taking as reference our experi-ence in incremental design and development weproposed four phases as a general strategy for lan-guage processing.
These are the phases definedwith the products to be developed in each of them.1.
Initial phase: Foundations.
Corpus I (collectionof raw text with no tagging mark).
Lexical da-tabase I (the first version could be a list oflemmas and affixes).
Machine-readable dic-tionaries.
Morphological description.2.
Second phase: Basic tools and applications.Statistical tools for the treatment of corpora.Morphological analyzer/generator.
Lemma-tizer/tagger.
Spelling checker and corrector (al-though in morphologically simple languages aword list could be enough).
Speech processingat word level.
Corpus II (word-forms aretagged with their part of speech and lemma).Lexical database II (lexical support for the con-struction of general applications, including partof speech and morphological information).3.
Third phase: Advanced tools and applications.An environment for tool integration.
Websearch engine.
A traditional search machinethat integrates lemmatization and languageidentification.
Surface syntax.
Corpus III (syn-tactically tagged text).
Grammar and stylecheckers.
Structured versions of dictionaries(they allow enhanced functionality not avail-able for printed or raw electronic versions).Lexical database III (the previous version is en-riched with multiword lexical units.
Integrationof dictionaries in text editors).
Lexical-semantic knowledge base.
Creation of a con-cept taxonomy (e.g.
: Wordnet).
Word-sensedisambiguation.
Speech processing at sentencelevel.
Basic Computer Aided Language Learn-ing (CALL) systems4.
Fourth phase: Multilingualism and generalapplications.
Information extraction.
Transla-tion aids (integrated use of multiple on-linedictionaries, translation of noun phrases andsimple sentences).
Corpus IV (semanticallytagged text after word-sense disambiguation).Dialog systems.
Knowledge base on multilin-gual lexico-semantic relations and its applica-tions.We will complete this strategy with some sug-gestions about what shouldn?t be done when work-ing on the treatment of minority languages.
a) Donot start developing applications if linguistic foun-dations are not defined previously; we recommendfollowing the above given sequence: foundations,tools and applications.
b) When a new system hasto be planned, do not create ad hoc lexical or syn-tactic resources; you should design those resourcesin a way that they could be easily extended to fullcoverage and reusable by any other tool or applica-tion.
c) If you complete a new resource or tool, donot keep it to yourself; there are many researchersworking on English, but only a few on each minor-ity language; thus, the few results should be publicand shared for research purposes, for it is desirableto avoid needless and costly repetition of work.3 Machine Translation for BasqueAfter years working on basic resources and toolswe decided it was time to face  the MT task (Hut-chins and Somers, 1992).
Our general strategy wasmore specifically for Machine Translation definedbearing in mind the following concepts:?
reusability of previous resources, speciallylexical resources and morphology of Basque?
standardization and collaboration: using amore general framework in collaborationwith other groups working in NLP?
open-source: this means that anyone havingthe necessary computational and linguisticskills will be able to adapt or enhance it toproduce a new MT system,Due to the real necessity for translation in ourenvironment the involved languages would beBasque, Spanish and English.From the beginning we wanted to combine thetwo basic approaches for MT (rule-based and cor-pus-based) in order to build a hybrid system, be-cause it is generally agreed that there are notenough corpora for a good corpus-based system inminority languages like Basque.Data-driven Machine Translation (example-based or statistical) is nowadays the most prevalenttrend in Machine Translation research.
Translationresults obtained with this approach have alreadyreached a high level of accuracy, especially whenthe target language is English.
But these Data-driven MT systems base their knowledge onaligned bilingual corpora, and the accuracy of their61output depends heavily on the quality and the sizeof these corpora.
Large and reliable bilingual cor-pora are unavailable for many language pairs.3.1 The rule-based approachFirst, we present the main architecture and the pro-posed standards of an open source MT engine, thefirst implementation of which translates fromSpanish into Basque using the traditional transfermodel and based on shallow and dependency pars-ing.The design and the programs are independentfrom the languages, so the software can be used forother projects in MT.
Depending on the languagesincluded in the adaptation, it will be necessary toadd, reorder and change some modules, but thiswill not be difficult because a unique XML formatis used for the communication among all the mod-ules.The project has been integrated in the OpenTradinitiative (www.opentrad.com), a government-funded project shared among different universitiesand small companies, which also include MT en-gines for translation among the main languages inSpain.
The main objective of this initiative is theconstruction of an open, reusable and interoperableframework.In the OpenTrad project, two different but coor-dinated designs have been carried out:?
A shallow-transfer machine translation en-gine for similar languages (Spanish, Catalanand Galician by the the time being).
TheMT architecture uses finite-state transducersfor lexical processing, hidden Markov mod-els for part-of-speech tagging, and chunkingbased on finite-state for structural transfer.It is named Apertium and it can bedownloaded from apertium.sourceforge.net.
(Armentano-Oller et al, 2004)?
A deeper-transfer engine for the Spanish-Basque pair.
It is named Matxin (Alegria etal., 2007) and it is stored inmatxin.sourceforge.net.
It is an extension ofprevious work in our group.
In order to re-use resources in this Spanish-Basque systemthe analysis module for similar languageswas not included in Matxin; another opensource engine, FreeLing (Carreras et al,2004), was used here, of course, and its out-put had to be converted to the proposed in-terchange format.Some of the components (modules, data formatsand compilers) from the first architecture in Open-Trad were used in the second one.
Indeed, an im-portant additional goal of this work was testingwhich modules from the first architecture could beintegrated in deeper-transfer architectures for moredifficult language pairs.The transfer module is also based on three mainobjects in the translation process: words or nodes,chunks or phrases, and sentences.?
First, lexical transfer is carried out using abilingual dictionary compiled into a finite-state transducer.
We use the XML specifica-tion of Apertium engine.?
Then, structural transfer at the sentencelevel is applied, and some information istransferred from some chunks to others, andsome chunks may disappear.
Grammarsbased on regular expressions are used tospecify these changes.
For example, in theSpanish-Basque transfer, the person andnumber information of the object and thetype of subordination are imported fromother chunks to the chunk corresponding tothe verb chain.?
Finally the structural transfer at the chunklevel is carried out.
This process can bequite simple (e.g.
noun chains betweenSpanish and Basque) or more complex (e.g.verb chains between these same languages).The XML file coming from the transfer moduleis passed on the generation module.?
In the first step, syntactic generation is per-formed in order to decide the order ofchunks in the sentence and the order ofwords in the chunks.
Several grammars areused for this purpose.?
Morphological generation is carried out inthe last step.
In the generation of Basque,the main inflection is added to the last wordin the phrase (in Basque: the declensioncase, the article and other features are addedto the whole noun phrase at the end of thelast word), but in verb chains other wordsneed morphological generation.
A previousmorphological analyzer/generator forBasque (Alegria et al, 1996) has beenadapted and transformed to the format usedin Apertium.The results for the Spanish/Basque system usingFreeLing and Matxin are promising.
The quantita-62tive evaluation uses the open source evaluationtool IQMT and figures are given using Bleu andNIST measures (Gim?nez et al, 2005).
An userbased evaluation has been carried out too.3.2 The corpus-based approachThe corpus-based approach has been carried out incollaboration with the National Center for Lan-guage Technology in Dublin.The system exploits both EBMT and SMT tech-niques to extract a dataset of aligned chunks.
Weconducted Basque to English and Spanish toBasque translation experiments, evaluated on alarge corpus (270, 000 sentence pairs).Some tools have been reused for this purpose:?
GIZA++: for word/morpheme alignment weused the GIZA++ statistical word alignmenttoolkit, and following the ?refined?
methodof (Och and Ney, 2003), extracted a set ofhigh-quality word/ morpheme alignmentsfrom the original unidirectional alignmentsets.
These along with the extracted chunkalignments were passed to the translationdecoder.?
Pharaoh/Moses decoder: the decoder is alsoa hybrid system which integrates EBMTand SMT.
It is capable of retrieving alreadytranslated sentences and also provides awrapper around the PHARAOH SMT de-coder (Koehn, 2004).?
MaTrEx: the MATREX (Machine Transla-tion using Examples) system used in ourexperiments is a data-driven MT engine,built following an extremely modular de-sign.
It consists of a number of extensibleand re-implementable modules (Way andGough, 2005).For this engine, we reuse a toolkit to chunk theBasque sentences.
After this processing stage, asentence is treated as a sequence of morphemes, inwhich chunk boundaries are clearly visible.
Mor-phemes denoting morphosyntactic features are re-placed by conventional symbolic strings.
Aftersome adaptation, the chunks obtained in this man-ner are actually very comparable to the Englishchunks obtained with the marker-based chunker.The experimental results have shown that oursystem significantly outperforms state-of-the-artapproaches according to several common auto-matic evaluation metrics: WER, Bleu and PER(Stroppa et al, 2006; Labaka et al, 2007).4 ConclusionsA language that seeks to survive in the moderninformation society requires language technologyproducts.
"Minority" languages have to do a greateffort to face this challenge.
The Ixa group hasbeen working since 1986 on adapting Basque tolanguage technology, having developed severalapplications that are effective tools to promote theuse of Basque.
Now we are planning to define theBLARK for Basque (Krauwer, 2003).From our experience, we defend that researchand development for a minority language should tobe faced following these points: high standardiza-tion,  reusing language foundations, tools, and ap-plications, and their incremental design and devel-opment.
We know that any HLT project related toa less privileged language should follow thoseguidelines, but from our experience we know thatin most cases they do not.
We think that if Basqueis now in an good position in HLT is because thoseguidelines have been applied even  when it waseasier to define "toy" resources and tools useful toget good short term academic results, but not reus-able in future developments.This strategy has been completely useful whenwe have created MT systems for Basque.
Reusingprevious works for Basque (that were defined fol-lowing XML and TEI standards) and reusing otheropen-source tools have been the key to get satisfac-tory results in a short time.Two results produced in the MT track are pub-licly available:?
matxin.sourceforge.net for the free code forthe Spanish-Basque RBMT system?
www.opentrad.org for the on-line demoAcknowledgmentsThis work has been partially funded by the SpanishMinistry of Education and Science (OpenMT:Open Source Machine Translation using hybridmethods,TIN2006-15307-C03-01) and the LocalGovernment of the Basque Country (AnHITZ2006: Language Technologies for Multingual In-teraction in Intelligent Environments., IE06-185).Andy Way, Declan Groves and Nicolas Stroppafrom National Centre for Language Technology inDublin are kindly acknowledged for providingtheir expertise on the Matrex system and theevaluation of the output.63ReferencesI.
Aduriz, E. Agirre, I. Aldezabal, I. Alegria, O. Ansa,X.
Arregi, J. Arriola, X. Artola, A.
D?az de Ilarraza,N.
Ezeiza, K.Gojenola, M. Maritxalar, M. Oronoz, K.Sarasola, A. Soroa, R. Urizar.
1998.
A framework forthe automatic processing of Basque.
Proceedings ofWorkshop on Lexical Resources for Minority Lan-guages.I.
Alegria, X. Artola, K. Sarasola.
1996.Automatic mor-phological analysis of Basque.
Literary & LinguisticComputing Vol.
11, No.
4, 193-203.
Oxford Univer-sity Press.
Oxford.
1996.I.
Alegria, A.
D?az de Ilarraza, G. Labaka, M Lersundi,A.
Mayor, K. Sarasola.
2007.
Transfer-based MTfrom Spanish into Basque: reusability, standardiza-tion and open source.
LNCS 4394.
374-384.
Cicling2007.E.
Amorrortu.
2002.
Bilingual Education in the BasqueCountry: Achievements and Challenges after FourDecades of Acquisition Planning.
Journal of Iberianand Latin American Literary and Cultural Stud-ies.Volume 2 Number 2 (2002)C. Armentano-Oller, A. Corb?-Bellot, M. L. Forcada,M.
Ginest?-Rosell, B. Bonev, S. Ortiz-Rojas, J. A.P?rez-Ortiz, G. Ram?rez-S?nchez, F. S?nchez-Mart?nez, 2005.
An open-source shallow-transfermachine translation toolbox: consequences of its re-lease and availability.
Proceedings of OSMaTran:Open-Source Machine Translation workshop, MTSummit X.X.
Artola, A.
D?az de Ilarraza, N. Ezeiza, K. Gojenola,G.
Labaka, A. Sologaistoa, A. Soroa.
2005.
Aframework for representing and managing linguisticannotations based on typed feature structures.
Proc.of RANLP 2005.X.
Carreras,, I. Chao, L. Padr?
and M. Padr?.
2004.FreeLing: An open source Suite of Language Ana-lyzers, in  Proceedings of the 4th International Con-ference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC'04).J.
Gim?nez, E.
Amig?, C. Hori.
2005.
MachineTranslation Evaluation Inside QARLA.
In Proceed-ings of the International Workshop on Spoken Lan-guage Technology (IWSLT'05)W. Hutchins and H. Somers.
1992.
An Introduction toMachine Translation.
Academic Press.P.
Koehn.
2004.
Pharaoh: A Beam Search Decoder forPhrase-Based Statistical Machine Translation Mod-els.
In Proceedings of AMTA-04, pages 115?124,Washington, District of Columbia.S.
Krauwer.
2003.
The Basic Language Resource Kit(BLARK) as the First Milestone for the LanguageResources Roadmap.
Proc.
of the InternationalWorkshop  Speech and Computer.
Moscow, Russia.G.
Labaka, N. Stroppa, A.
Way, K. Sarasola  2007Comparing Rule-Based and Data-Driven Approachesto Spanish-to-Basque Machine Translation Proc.
ofMT-Summit XI, CopenhagenF.
Och and H. Ney.
2003.
A Systematic Comparison ofVarious Statistical Alignment Models.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 29(1): 19?51.B.
Petek.
2000.
Funding for research into human lan-guage technologies for less prevalent languages, Sec-ond International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC 2000).
Athens,Greece.N.
Stroppa, D. Groves, A.
Way, K. Sarasola K. 2006.Example-Based Machine Translation of the BasqueLanguage.
AMTA.
7th conference of the Associationfor Machine Translation in the Americas..A.
Way and N. Gough.
2005.
Comparing Example-Based and Statistical Machine Translation.
NaturalLanguage Engineering, 11(3):295?309.B.
Williams, K. Sarasola, D.
?
?Cr?inin, B. Petek.
2001.Speech and Language Technology for Minority Lan-guages.
Proceedings of Eurospeech 200164
