Conrmed Language Resource for Answering How Type QuestionsDeveloped by Using Mails Posted to a Mailing ListRyo Nishimura Yasuhiko Watanabe Yoshihiro OkadaRyukoku University, Seta, Otsu, Shiga, 520-2194, Japanr nishimura@afc.ryukoku.ac.jp watanabe@rins.ryukoku.ac.jpAbstractIn this paper, we report a Japanese language re-source for answering how-type questions.
Itwas developed it by using mails posted to amailing list.
We show a QA system based onthis language resource.1 IntroductionIn this paper, we report a Japanese language resourcefor answering how type questions.
It was developed byusing mails posted to a mailing list and it was giventhe four types of descriptions: (1) mail type, (2) keysentence, (3) semantic label, and (4) credibility label.Credibility is a center problem of knowledge acquiti-sion from natural language documents because the doc-uments, including mails posted to mailing lists, oftencontain incorrect information.
We describe how to de-velop this language resource in section 2, and show aQA system based on it in section 3.2 Language resource developmentThere are mailing lists to which question and answermails are posted frequently.
For example, to VineUsers ML, considerable number of question mails andtheir answer mails are posted by participants who areinterested in Vine Linux 1.
We intended to use thesemails for developing a language resource because wehave the following advantages.?
It is easy to collect question and answer mails invarious domains: The sets of question and answermails are necessary to answer how-type questions.Many informative mails posted to mailing lists aredisclosed in the Internet and can be retrieved byusing full text search engines, such as Namazu(Namazu).
However, users want a more conve-nient retrieval system than existing systems.?
There are many mails which report the credibilityof their previous mails: Answer mails often con-tain incorrect solutions.
On the other hand, many1Vine Linux is a linux distribution with a customized Japaneseenvironment.Figure 1: The overview of the language resource de-velopmentmails were submitted by questioners for reportingthe credibility of the solutions which they had re-ceived.
As a result, solutions described in answermails can be confirmed by using questioner?s re-ply mails.?
Mails posted to mailing lists generally have keysentences: These key sentences can be extractedby using surface clues (Watanabe 05).
The sets ofquestions and solutions can be acquired by usingkey sentences in question and answer mails.
Also,the solutions are confirmed by using key sen-tences in questioner?s reply mails.
Furthermore,key sentences in question mails and their neigh-boring sentences often contain information aboutconditions, symptoms, and purpose.
These kindsof information are useful in specifying user?s un-clear questions.Figure 1 shows the overview of the language re-source development.
First, by using reference rela-tions and sender?s email address, mails are classifiedinto four types: (1) question (Q) mail, (2) direct an-swer (DA) mail, (3) questioner?s reply (QR) mail, and(4) others.
DA mails are direct answers to the originalquestions.
Solutions are generally described in the DAmails.
QR mails are questioners?
answers to the DAmails.
In the QR mails, questioners often report theThe 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200895credibility of the solutions described in the DA mails.Sentences in the Q, DA, and QR mails are transformedinto dependency trees by using JUMAN(JMN 05) andKNP(KNP 05).Second, key sentences are extracted from the Q, DA,and QR mails by using (1) nouns used in the mail sub-jects, (2) quotation frequency, (3) clue expressions, and(4) sentence location (Watanabe 05).
To evaluate thismethod, we selected 100 examples of question mailsand their DA and QR mails in Vine Users ML.
The ac-curacy of the key sentence extraction from the Q, DA,and QR mails were 80%, 88%, and 76%, respectively.We associated (1) the key sentences and the neighbor-ing sentences in the Q mails and (2) the key sentencesin the DA mails.
We used them as knowledge for an-swering how-type questions.
73% of them were coher-ent explanations.Third, expressions including information about con-dition, symptom, and purpose are extracted from thekey sentences in the Q mails and their neighboring sen-tences by using clue expressions.
The results are usedfor specifying unclear questions.
For example, unclearquestion ?oto ga denai (I cannot get any sounds)?
isspecified by ?saisho kara (symptom: from the begin-ning) ??
and ?kernel no version ha (condition: whichkernel version) ?
?, both of which were extracted fromthe Q mails through this semantic analysis.
The accu-racy of this analysis was 74%.Finally, positive and negative expressions to the so-lutions described in the DA mails are extracted fromthe key sentences in the QR mails.
The results of thisanalysis on QR mails are used for giving credibility la-bels to the solutions described in the DA mails.
Theaccuracy of this analysis was 76%.3 QA system based on the language resourceFigure 2 shows the overview of our system based onthe language resource.
A user can ask a question to thesystem in natural language.
Then, the system retrievessimilar questions and their solutions, and it shows thecredibility of these solutions by using their credibilitylabels.
Figure 3 shows an example where our systemgave an answer to user?s question, ?IP wo shutoku dek-inai (I cannot get an IP address)?
; ?positive 1?
meansthat this answer thread has one solution that was posi-tively confirmed by its QR mail.The language resource consists of the mails postedto Vine Users ML (50846 mails: 8782 Q mails, 13081Figure 2: System overviewFigure 3: A set of a question and the answers with apositive label retrieved by our systemDA mails, 4272 QR mails, and 24711 others).
8782key sentences and their 7330 previous and 8614 nextsentences were extracted from the Q mails.
These sen-tences were associated with 13081 key sentences ex-tracted from the DA mails and used as knowledge foranswering how-type questions.
3173 key sentenceswere extracted from the QR mails and the credibilitylabels (2148 positive and 1025 negative) were given to3127 key sentences in the DA mails.The QA processor transforms user?s question into adependency structure by using JUMAN(JMN 05) andKNP(KNP 05).
Then, it retrieves similar questions andtheir solutions by calculating the similarity scores be-tween user?s question and key sentencecs in the ques-tion mails.
It also retrieves expressions including in-formation about conditions, symptoms, and purposewhich seem to be useful in specifying user?s questions.The user interface enables a user to access to the sys-tem via a WWW browser by using CGI-based HTMLforms.
It puts the answer threads in order of similarityscore.ReferencesNamazu: a Full-Text Search Engine, http://www.namazu.org/Watanabe, Nishimura, and Okada: Confirmed KnowledgeAcquisition Using Mails Posted to a Mailing List, IJC-NLP 2005, pp.131-142, (2005).Kurohashi and Kawahara: JUMAN Manual version 5.1 (inJapanese), Kyoto University, (2005).Kurohashi and Kawahara: KNP Manual version 2.0 (inJapanese), Kyoto University, (2005).The 6th Workshop on Asian Languae Resources, 200896
