A Morpheme-based Part-of-Speech Tagger for ChineseGuohong FuSchool of Computer Science and TechnologyHeilongjiang UniversityHarbin 150080, P.R.
Chinaghfu@hotmail.comJonathan J. WebsterDepartment of Chinese, Translation and LinguisticsCity University of Hong Kong83 Tat Chee Avenue, Hong Kong, P.R.
Chinactjjw@cityu.edu.hkAbstractThis paper presents a morpheme-basedpart-of-speech tagger for Chinese.
It con-sists of two main components, namely amorpheme segmenter to segment eachword in a sentence into a sequence of mor-phemes, based on forward maximummatching, and a lexical tagger to label eachmorpheme with a proper tag indicating itsposition pattern in forming a word of aspecific class, based on lexicalized hiddenMarkov models.
This system have partici-pated four closed tracks for POS tagging atthe Fourth International Chinese LanguageProcessing Bakeoff sponsored by the ACL-SIGHAN.1 IntroductionPart-of-speech (POS) tagging aims to assign eachword in a sentence with a proper tag indicating itsPOS category.
While a number of successful POStagging systems have been available for Englishand many other languages, it is still a challenge todevelop a practical POS tagger for Chinese due toits language-specific issues.
Firstly, Chinese wordsdo not have a strict one-to-one correspondence be-tween their POS categories and functions in a sen-tence.
Secondly, an ambiguous Chinese word canact as different POS categories in different con-texts without changing its form.
Thirdly, there aremany out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words in real Chi-nese text whose POS categories are not defined inthe dictionary used.
All these factors make it muchmore difficult to achieve a high-performance POStagger for Chinese.Recent studies in Chinese POS tagging focus onstatistical or machine learning approaches witheither characters or words as basic units for tagging(Ng and Low, 2004; Fu and Luke, 2006).
Verylittle research has been devoted to resolving Chi-nese POS tagging problems based on morphemes.In our system, we prefer morphemes to charactersor words as tagging units for three reasons.
First,words are made of morphemes instead of charac-ters (Wu and Tseng, 1995; Packard, 2000).
Sec-ond, most morphemes are productive in word for-mation (Baayen, 1989; Sproat and Shih, 2002; Ni-shimoto, 2003), particularly in the formation ofmorphologically-derived words (MDWs) andproper nouns, which are the major source of OOVwords in Chinese texts.
Third, Packard (2000) in-dicates that Chinese do have morphology.
More-over, morphology proves to be a very informativecue for predicting POS categories of Chinese OOVwords (Tseng et al 2005).
Therefore, we believethat a morpheme-based framework would be moreeffective than the character- or word-based ones incapturing both word-internal morphological fea-tures and word-external contextual information forChinese POS disambiguation and unknown wordguessing (UWG) as well.Thus we present a morpheme-based POS taggerfor Chinese in this paper.
It consists of two maincomponents, namely a morpheme segmentationcomponent for segmenting each word in a sentenceinto a sequence of morphemes, based on the for-ward maximum matching (FMM) technique, and alexical tagging component for labeling each seg-mented morpheme with a proper tag indicating itsposition pattern in forming a word of a specifictype, based on lexicalized hidden Markov models(HMMs).
Lack of a large morphological knowl-124Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingedge base is a major obstacle to Chinese morpho-logical analysis (Tseng and Chen, 2002).
To over-come this problem and to facilitate morpheme-based POS tagging as well, we have also devel-oped a statistically-based technique for automati-cally extracting morphemes from POS-tagged cor-pora.
We participated in four closed tracks for POStagging at the Fourth International Chinese Lan-guage Processing Bakeoff sponsored by the ACL-SIGHAN and tested our system on different testingcorpora.
In this paper, we also made a summary ofthis work and give some brief analysis on the re-sults.The rest of this paper is organized as follows:Section 2 is a brief description of our system.
Sec-tion 3 details the settings of our system for differ-ent testing tracks and presents the scored results ofour system at this bakeoff.
Finally, we give ourconclusions in Section 4.2 System Description2.1 Chinese MorphemesIn brief, Chinese morphemes can be classifiedinto free morphemes and bound morphemes.
Afree morpheme can stand by itself as a word (viz.
abasic word), whereas a bound morpheme can showup if and only if being attached to othermorphemes to form a word.
Free morphemes canbe subdivided into true free morphemes andpseudo free morphemes.
A pseudo free morpheme?
?such as  ran2-er2 ?however?
can only standalone, while a true free morpheme like ?
?SHENG-CHAN ?produce?
can stand alone by itselfas a word or occur as parts of other words.
Chineseaffixes include prefixes (e.g.
?
fei1 ?non-?, ?wei3 ?pseudo?
), infixes (e.g.
??
fei1-zhi1) orsuffixes (e.g.
?
xing4 ?-ity?, ??
zhu3-yi4 ?-ism?
), in terms of their positions within a word.2.2 FormulationTo perform morpheme-based Chinese POS tag-ging, we represent a POS-tagged word in a Chi-nese sentence as a sequence of lexical chunks withthe aid of an extended IOB2 tag set (Fu and Luke2005).
A lexical chunk consists of a sequence ofconstituent morphemes associated with their corre-sponding lexical chunk tags.
A lexical chunk tagfollows the format T1-T2, indicating the POS cate-gory T2 of a word and the position pattern T1 of aconstituent morpheme within the word.
As shownin Table 1, four position patterns are involved inour system, namely O for a single morpheme as aword by itself, I for a morpheme inside a word, Bfor a morpheme at the beginning of a word and Efor a morpheme at the end of a word.Tag DefinitionCorrespondingmorpheme typesO A morpheme as a word by itself Free morphemesIA morpheme inside awordFree morphemes andinfixesBA word-initial mor-phemeFree morphemes andprefixesE A word-final morpheme Free morphemes andsuffixesTable 1.
Extended IOB2 tag set2.3 Affix ExtractionDue to the increasing involvement of affixation inChinese word formation, affixes play a more andmore important role in Chinese POS tagging.
Inmorpheme extraction, affixes are very useful indetermining whether a given word is derived byaffixation.
To extract affixes from corpora, weconsider three statistics, i.e.
morpheme-positionfrequency )1,( TmCount , morpheme-positionprobability )()1,()1,( mCountTmCountTmMPP =and morphological productivity.
Following theproposal in (Baayen, 1989), the morphologicalproductivity of a morpheme m  with a position pat-tern 1T , denoted as )1,( TmMP , can be defined as)1,()1,(1)1,(TmCountTmnTmMP =                 (1)where )1,(1 Tmn  is the number of word types thatoccur only once in the training corpus and at thesame time, are formed by the morpheme m  withthe position pattern 1T .To estimate the above statistics for affix extrac-tion, we only take into account the three positionpatterns B, I and E, for prefixes, infixes and suf-fixes, respectively.
Thus we can extract affixesfrom training data with the following three condi-tions: MPFTHTmCount ?
)1,( , MPPTHTmMPP ?
)1,(and MPTHTmMP ?
)1,( , where THMPF, THMPP andTHMP are three empirically-determined thresholds.125Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processing2.4 Morpheme ExtractionThe goal of morpheme extraction is to identifyMDWs and proper nouns in training corpora andprevent them from getting into the morpheme dic-tionary for POS tagging.
In the present system, thefollowing criteria are applied to determine whethera word in training data should enter the morphemedictionary.Completeness.
With a view to the completenessof the morpheme dictionary, all characters in train-ing data will be collected as morphemes.Word length.
In general, shorter morphemesare more productive than longer ones in word for-mation.
As such, the length of a morpheme shouldnot exceed four characters.Word frequency.
By this criterion, a word isselected as a morpheme if its frequency of occur-rences in training data is higher than a giventhreshold.MDWs.
By this criterion, words formed bymorphological patterns such as affixation, com-pounding, reduplication and abbreviation will beexcluded from the morpheme dictionary.Proper nouns.
In some training corpora like thePKU corpus, some special tags are specified forproper nouns.
In this case, they will be used to fil-ter proper nouns during morpheme extraction.2.5 Lexicalized HMM TaggerAs shown in Figure 1, our system works in threemain steps as follows.Figure 1.
Overall architecture of our systemMorpheme segmentation.
In this step, theFMM technique is employed to segment each wordin a sentence to a sequence of morphemes associ-ated with their position tags within the word.Tag candidate generation.
In this step, all pos-sible POS candidates are generated for each wordin the sentence by consulting the morpheme dic-tionary with its constitute morphemes and theirrelated position patterns.
All these candidates arestored in a lattice.Scoring and Decoding.
In this step, the lexical-ized HMMs are first employed to score each can-didate in the lattice and the Viterbi decoding algo-rithm is further used to search an optimal sequenceof POS tags for the sentence.
The details of lexical-ized HMMs can be seen in (Lee et al 200) and (Fuand Luke, 2005).3 Evaluation Results3.1 System Settings for Different TracksThe POS tagging task at the fourth ACL-SIGHANbakeoff consists of five closed tracks.
We partici-pated four of them, namely CKIP, CTB, NCC andPKU.
Therefore our system is trained only usingthe relevant training corpora provided for thebakeoff.
Furthermore, the morpheme dictionariesfor these tracks are also extracted automaticallyfrom the relevant training data with the methodpresented in Sections 2.3 and 2.4.
Table 2 illus-trated the number of morphemes extracted fromdifferent training data.Source Training data (tokens/word types)Number ofmorphemesCKIP 721551 / 48045 30757CTB 642246 / 42133 26330NCC 535023 / 45108 28432PKU 1116754 / 55178 30085Table 2.
Number of morphemes extracted from thetraining data for SIGHAN POS tagging bakeoff3.2 Evaluation ResultsTrack Total-A IV-R OOV-R MT-RCKIP-O 0.9124 0.9549 0.4756 0.8953CTB-O 0.9234 0.9507 0.52 0.9051NCC-O 0.9395 0.969 0.4086 0.9059PKU-C 0.9266 0.9574 0.4386 0.9079Table 3.
Scores of our system for different tracksTable 3 presents the scores of our system for dif-ferent tracks.
It should be noted that four measuresare employed in the 4th ACL-SIGHAN bakeoff toTag Candidate GenerationScoring & DecodingMorph dictionaryA segmented sentenceMorpheme SegmentationA POS-tagged sentenceLexicalized HMMs126Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processingscore the performance of a POS tagging system,namely the overall accuracy (Total-A) and the re-call with respect to in-vocabulary words (IV-R),OOV words (OOV-R) or multi-POS words (MT-R).Although our system has achieved a promisingperformance, there is still much to be done to im-prove it.
First, the quality of the morpheme dic-tionary is of particular importance to morpheme-based POS tagger.
Although the present study pro-posed a statistical technique to extract morphemesfrom tagged corpora, further exploration is stillneeded on the optimization of this technique toacquire a more desirable morpheme dictionary forChinese POS tagging.
Second, morphological pat-terns prove to be informative cues for Chinese POSdisambiguation and OOV word prediction.
How-ever, such a knowledge base is not publicly avail-able for Chinese.
As such, in the present study weonly made use of certain surface morphologicalfeatures, namely the position patterns of mor-phemes in word formation.
Future research mightusefully extend the present method to explore sys-tematically more precise morphological features,including morpheme POS categories and morpho-syntactic rules for Chinese POS tagging.4 ConclusionIn this paper we have presented a morpheme-basedPOS tagger for Chinese.
We participated in fourclosed tracks at the fourth SIGHAN bakeoff.
Thescored results show that our system can achieve anoverall accuracy of 0.9124-0.9395 for differentcorpora.
However, the present system is still underdevelopment, especially in morphological knowl-edge acquisition.
For future work, we hope to im-prove our system with a higher quality morphemedictionary and more deep morphological knowl-edge such as morpheme POS categories and mor-pho-syntactic rules.AcknowledgmentsThis study was supported in part by CityU Stra-tegic Research Grant for fundable CERG (No.7001879 & 7002037).ReferencesE.
Nishimoto.
2003.
Measuring and comparing the pro-ductivity of Mandarin Chinese suffixes.
Computa-tional Linguistics and Chinese Language Processing,8(1): 49-76.G.
Fu and K.-K. Luke.
2005.
Chinese named entity rec-ognition using lexicalized HMMs.
ACM SIGKDDExplorations Newsletter, 7(1): 19-25.G.
Fu and K.-K. Luke.
2006.
Chinese POS disambigua-tion and unknown word guessing with lexicalizedHMMs.
International Journal of Technology andHuman Interaction, 2(1): 39-50.H.
Tseng and K.-J.
Chen.
2002.
Design of Chinese mor-phological analyzer.
In: Proceedings of the 1stSIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Process-ing, 1-7.H.
Tseng, D. Jurafsky, and C. Manning.
2005.
Morpho-logical features help POS tagging of unknown wordsacross language varieties.
In: Proceedings of theFourth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese LanguageProcessing.H.T.
Ng and J.K. Low.
2004.
Chinese part-of-speechtagging: One-at-a-time or all-at-once?
Word-based orcharacter-based?.
In: Proceedings of the 2004 Con-ference on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing (EMNLP 2004), Barcelona, Spain, 277-284.J.
Packard.
2000.
Morphology of Chinese: A linguisticand cognitive approach.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, UK.R.
Sproat and C. Shih.
2002.
Corpus-based methods inChinese morphology.
In: Proceedings of the 19th In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguistics(COLING 2002), Taipei, Taiwan.R.H.
Baayen.
1989.
A corpus-based study of morpho-logical productivity: Statistical analysis and psycho-logical interpretation.
Ph.D. thesis, Free University,Amsterdam.S.-Z.
Lee, T.-J.
Tsujii, and H.-C. Rim.
2000.
Lexical-ized hidden Markov models for part-of-speech tag-ging.
In: Proceedings of the 18th International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics (COLING2000), Saarbruken, Germany, 481-487.Z.
Wu, G. Tseng.
1995.
ACTS: An automatic Chinesetext segmentation systems for full text retrieval.Journal of the American Society for Information Sci-ence, 46(2): 83-96.127Sixth SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processing
