A Lemmatization Method for Modern Mongolian andits Application to Information RetrievalBadam-Osor Khaltar           Atsushi FujiiGraduate School of Library, Information and Media StudiesUniversity of Tsukuba1-2 Kasuga Tsukuba, 305-8550, Japan{khab23, fujii}@slis.tsukuba.ac.jpAbstractIn Modern Mongolian, a content word canbe inflected when concatenated with suf-fixes.
Identifying the original forms ofcontent words is crucial for natural lan-guage processing and information retrieval.We propose a lemmatization method forModern Mongolian and apply our methodto indexing for information retrieval.
Weuse technical abstracts to show the effec-tiveness of our method experimentally.1 IntroductionThe Mongolian language is divided into Tradition-al Mongolian, which uses the Mongolian alphabet,and Modern Mongolian, which uses the Cyrillicalphabet.
In this paper, we focus solely on the lat-ter and use the word ?Mongolian?
to refer to Mod-ern Mongolian.In Mongolian, which is an agglutinative lan-guage, each sentence is segmented on a phrase-by-phrase basis.
A phrase consists of a content word,such as a noun or a verb, and one or more suffixes,such as postpositional participles.
A content wordcan potentially be inflected when concatenatedwith suffixes.Identifying the original forms of content wordsin Mongolian text is crucial for natural languageprocessing and information retrieval.
In informa-tion retrieval, the process of normalizing indexterms is important, and can be divided into lemma-tization and stemming.
Lemmatization identifiesthe original form of an inflected word, whereasstemming identifies a stem, which is not necessari-ly a word.Existing search engines, such as Google andYahoo!, do not perform lemmatization or stem-ming for indexing Web pages in Mongolian.Therefore, Web pages that include only inflectedforms of a query cannot be retrieved.In this paper, we propose a lemmatization me-thod for Mongolian and apply our method to in-dexing for information retrieval.2 Inflection types in Mongolian phrasesNouns, adjectives, numerals, and verbs can beconcatenated with suffixes.
Nouns and adjectivesare usually concatenated with a sequence of aplural suffix, case suffix, and reflexive possessivesuffix.
Numerals are concatenated with either acase suffix or a reflexive possessive suffix.
Verbsare concatenated with various suffixes, such as anaspect suffix, a participle suffix, and a mood suffix.Figure 1 shows the inflection types of contentwords in Mongolian phrases.
In (a), there is no in-flection in the content word ????
(book)?, conca-tenated with the suffix ???
(the genitive case)?.The content words are inflected in (b)-(e).Type Example(a) No inflection ???
+ ??
?
????
?book + genitive case(b) Vowel insertion ??
+ ?
?
???
?brother + dative case(c) Consonant insertion ??????
+ ????
?????????
?building + genitive case(d) The letters ???
or ??
?are eliminated, and thevowel converts to ???????
+ ???
?
?????
?return + ablative case(e) Vowel elimination ????
+ ???
?
?????
?work + ablative caseFigure 1: Inflection types of content words inMongolian phrases.1Loanwords, which can be nouns, adjectives, orverbs in Mongolian, can also be concatenated withsuffixes.
In this paper, we define a loanword as aword imported from a Western language.Because loanwords are linguistically differentfrom conventional Mongolian words, the suffixconcatenation is also different from that for con-ventional Mongolian words.
Thus, exception rulesare required for loanwords.For example, if the loanword ??????
(station)?is to be concatenated with a genitive case suffix,????
should be selected from the five genitivecase suffixes (i.e., ?
?, ??
?, ?, ?
?, and ?)
basedon the Mongolian grammar.
However, because??????
(station)?
is a loanword, the genitive case?????
is selected instead of ???
?, resulting in thenoun phrase ?????????
(station?s)?.Additionally, the inflection (e) in Figure 1 neveroccurs for noun and adjective loanwords.3 Related workSanduijav et al (2005) proposed a lemmatizationmethod for noun and verb phrases in Mongolian.They manually produced inflection rules and con-catenation rules for nouns and verbs.
Then, theyautomatically produced a dictionary by aligningnouns or verbs with suffixes.
Lemmatization forphrases is performed by consulting this dictionary.Ehara et al (2004) proposed a morphologicalanalysis method for Mongolian, for which theymanually produced rules for inflections and conca-tenations.
However, because the lemmatizationmethods proposed by Sanduijav et al (2005) andEhara et al (2004) rely on dictionaries, these me-thods cannot lemmatize new words that are not indictionaries, such as loanwords and technical terms.Khaltar et al (2006) proposed a lemmatizationmethod for Mongolian noun phrases that does notuse a noun dictionary.
Their method can be usedfor nouns, adjectives, and numerals, because thesuffixes that are concatenated with these are almostthe same and the inflection types are also the same.However, they were not aware of the applicabilityof their method to adjectives and numerals.The method proposed by Khaltar et al (2006)mistakenly extracts loanwords with endings thatare different from conventional Mongolian words.For example, if the phrase ??????????(ecology?s)?
is lemmatized, the resulting contentword will be ???????
?, which is incorrect.
Thecorrect word is ????????
(ecology)?.
This erroroccurs because the ending ?-?????
(-ology)?
doesnot appear in conventional Mongolian words.In addition, Khaltar et al (2006)?s methodapplies (e) in Figure 1 to loanwords, whereas in-flection (e) never occurs in noun and adjectiveloanwords.Lemmatization and stemming are arguably ef-fective for indexing in information retrieval (Hull,1996; Porter, 1980).
Stemmers have been devel-oped for a number of agglutinative languages, in-cluding Malay (Tai et al, 2000), Indonesian (Ber-lian Vega and Bressan, 2001), Finnish (Korenius etal., 2004), Arabic (Larkey et al, 2002), Swedish(Carlberger et al, 2001), Slovene (Popovi?
andWillett, 1992) and Turkish (Ekmek?ioglu et al,1996).Xu and Croft (1998) and Melucci and Orio(2003) independently proposed a language-independent method for stemming, which analyzesa corpus in a target language and identifies anequivalent class consisting of an original form,inflected forms, and derivations.
However, theirmethod, which cannot identify the original form ineach class, cannot be used for natural languageapplications where word occurrences must be stan-dardized by their original forms.Finite State Transducers (FSTs) have been ap-plied to lemmatization.
Although Karttunen andBeesley (2003) suggested the applicability of FSTsto various languages, no rule has actually beenproposed for Mongolian.
The rules proposed in thispaper can potentially be used for FSTs.To the best of our knowledge, no attempt hasbeen made to apply lemmatization or stemming toinformation retrieval for Mongolian.
Our researchis the first serious effort to address this problem.4 Methodology4.1 OverviewIn view of the discussion in Section 3, we en-hanced the lemmatization method proposed byKhaltar et al (2006).
The strength of this method isthat noun dictionaries are not required.Figure 2 shows the overview of our lemmatiza-tion method for Mongolian.
Our method consistsof two segments, which are identified with dashedlines in Figure 2: ?lemmatization for verb phrases?and ?lemmatization for noun phrases?.2In Figure 2, we enhanced the method proposedby Khaltar et al (2006) from three perspectives.First, we introduced ?lemmatization for verbphrases?.
There is a problem to be solved when wetarget both noun and verb phrases.
There are anumber of suffixes that can concatenate with bothverbs and nouns, but the inflection type can be dif-ferent depending on the part of speech.
As a result,verb phrases can incorrectly be lemmatized asnoun phrases and vice versa.Because new verbs are not created as frequentlyas nouns, we predefine a verb dictionary, but donot use a noun dictionary.
We first lemmatize anentered phrase as a verb phrase and then checkwhether the extracted content word is defined inour verb dictionary.
If the content word is not de-fined in our verb dictionary, we lemmatize the in-put phrase as a noun phrase.Second, we introduced a ?loanword identifica-tion rule?
in ?lemmatization for noun phrases?.
Weidentify a loanword phrase before applying a?noun suffix segmentation rule?
and ?vowel inser-tion rule?.
Because segmentation rules are differentfor conventional Mongolian words and loanwords,we enhance the noun suffix segmentation rule thatwas originally proposed by Khaltar et al (2006).Additionally, we do not use the vowel insertionrule, if the entered phrase is detected as a loanwordphrase.
The reason is that vowel elimination neveroccurs in noun loanwords.Third, unlike Khaltar et al (2006), we targetedadjective and numeral phrases.
Because the suffix-es concatenated with nouns, adjectives, and num-erals are almost the same, the lemmatization me-thod for noun phrases can also be used for adjec-tive and numeral phrases without any modifica-tions.
We use ?lemmatization for noun phrases?
torefer to the lemmatization for noun, adjective, andnumeral phrases.We briefly explain our lemmatization processusing Figure 2.We consult a ?verb suffix dictionary?
and per-form backward partial matching to determinewhether a suffix is concatenated at the end of aphrase.
If a suffix is detected, we use a ?verb suffixsegmentation rule?
to remove the suffix and extractthe content word.
This process will be repeateduntil the residue of the phrase does not match anyof the entries in the verb suffix dictionary.We use a ?vowel insertion rule?
to check wheth-er vowel elimination occurred in the content wordand insert the eliminated vowel.If the content word is defined in a ?verb dictio-nary?, we output the content word as a verb andterminate the lemmatization process.
If not, we usethe entered phrase and perform lemmatization fornoun phrases.
We consult a ?noun suffix dictio-nary?
to determine whether one or more suffixesare concatenated at the end of the target phrase.YesNoDetect a suffix in the phraseRemove suffixes and extract a content wordCheck if the content word is a verbDetect a suffix in the phraseRemove suffixes and extract a content wordInput aphraseOutput thecontent wordProcess the inputted phrase as a noun phraseLoanword identification ruleVerb dictionaryVerb suffix segmentation ruleNoun suffix dictionaryNoun suffix segmentation ruleVerb suffix dictionaryFigure 2: Overview of our lemmatization method for Mongolian.Lemmatization for noun phrasesVowel insertion rule Insert an eliminated vowelInsert an eliminated vowelIdentify loanwordVowel insertion ruleLemmatization for verb phrases3We use a ?loanword identification rule?
to iden-tify whether the phrase is a loanword phrase.
Weuse a ?noun suffix segmentation rule?
to removethe suffixes and extract the content word.
If thephrase is identified as a loanword phrase we usedifferent segmentation rules.We use the ?vowel insertion rule?
which is alsoused for verb phrases to check whether vowel eli-mination occurred in the content word and insertthe eliminated vowel.
However, if the phrase isidentified as a loanword phrase, we do not use thevowel insertion rule.If the target phrase does not match any of theentries in the noun suffix dictionary, we determinethat a suffix is not concatenated and we output thephrase as it is.The inflection types (b)?
(d) in Figure 1 areprocessed by the verb suffix segmentation rule andnoun suffix segmentation rule.
The inflection (e) inFigure 1 is processed by the vowel insertion rule.We elaborate on the dictionaries and rules inSections 4.2?4.8.4.2 Verb suffix dictionaryWe produced a verb suffix dictionary, which con-sists of 126 suffixes that can concatenate withverbs.
These suffixes include aspect suffixes, parti-ciple suffixes, and mood suffixes.Figure 3 shows a fragment of our verb suffixdictionary, in which inflected forms of suffixes areshown in parentheses.
All suffixes correspondingto the same suffix type represent the same meaning.4.3 Verb suffix segmentation ruleFor the verb suffix segmentation rule, we produced179 rules.
There are one or more segmentationrules for each of the 126 verb suffixes mentionedin Section 4.2.Figure 4 shows a fragment of the verb suffixsegmentation rule for suffix ??
(past)?.
In thecolumn ?Segmentation rule?, the condition of each?if?
sentence is a phrase ending.
?V?
refers to avowel and ?*?
refers to any strings.
?C9?
refers toany of the nine consonants ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ???,??
?, ??
?, ??
?, or ??
?, and ?C7?
refers to any of theseven consonants ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, or???.
If a condition is satisfied, we remove one ormore corresponding characters.For example, because the verb phrase?????????
(renew + past)?
satisfies condition (ii),Suffix type SuffixAppealCompletePerfectProgressive-perfect???
?, ??????????
(???
), ???
(???
), ??
?, ??????
?, ???
?, ???
?, ???
?Figure 3: Fragment of verb suffix dictionary.Suffix Segmentation rule?Past(i)  If ( *+ V + V +  ?
)Remove ?
(ii) If ( * + C9 + C7 + V + ?
)Remove V + ?Figure 4: Fragment of verb suffix segmentationrule.we remove the suffix ???
and the preceding vowel???
to extract ???????
?.4.4 Verb dictionaryWe use the verb dictionary produced by Sanduijavet al (2005), which includes 1254 verbs.4.5 Noun suffix dictionaryWe use the noun suffix dictionary produced byKhaltar et al (2006), which contains 35 suffixesthat can be concatenated with nouns.
These suffix-es are postpositional particles.
Figure 5 shows afragment of the dictionary, in which inflectedforms of suffixes are shown in parentheses.4.6 Noun suffix segmentation ruleThere are 196 noun suffix segmentation rules, ofwhich 173 were proposed by Khaltar et al (2006).As we explained in Section 3, these 173 rules oftenincorrectly lemmatize loanwords with differentendings from conventional Mongolian words.We analyzed the list of English suffixes andfound that English suffixes ?-ation?
and ?-ology?are incorrectly lemmatized by Khaltar et al (2006).In Mongolian, ?-ation?
is transliterated into ????
?or ?????
and ?-ology?
is transliterated into???????.
Thus, we produced 23 rules forloanwords that end with ????
?, ????
?, or ??????
?.Figure 6 shows a fragment of our suffix segmen-tation rule for loanwords.
For example, for theloanword phrase ??????????
(ecology + geni-tive)?, we use the segmentation rule for suffix????
(genitive)?
in Figure 6.
We remove the suffix????
(genitive)?
and add ???
to the end of thecontent word.
As a result, the noun ????????(ecology)?
is correctly extracted.4Case SuffixGenitiveAccusativeDativeAblative?, ?, ?
?, ?
?, ????
?, ??
?, ?
?, ????
(???
), ???
(???
), ??
?, ??
?Figure 5: Fragment of noun suffix dictionary.Suffix Segmentation rule for loanwords??
?GenitiveIf (* + ??????
)Remove (???)
, Add (?)??
?AccusativeIf (* + ??????
)Remove (???
), Add (?
)Figure 6: Fragment of suffix segmentation rulesfor loanwords.4.7 Vowel insertion ruleTo insert an eliminated vowel and extract the orig-inal form of a content word, we check the last twocharacters of the content word.
If they are bothconsonants, we determine that a vowel was elimi-nated.
However, a number of Mongolian wordsend with two consonants inherently and, therefore,Khaltar et al (2006) referred to a textbook on theMongolian grammar (Ts, 2002) to produce 12 rulesto determine when to insert a vowel between twoconsecutive consonants.
We also use these rules asour vowel insertion rule.4.8 Loanword identification ruleKhaltar et al (2006) proposed rules for extractingloanwords from Mongolian corpora.
Words thatsatisfy one of seven conditions are extracted asloanwords.
Of the seven conditions, we do not usethe condition that extracts a word ending with?consonants + ??
as a loanword because it was noteffective for lemmatization purposes in prelimi-nary study.5 Experiments5.1 Evaluation methodWe collected 1102 technical abstracts from the?Mongolian IT Park?
1 and used them for experi-ments.
There were 178,448 phrase tokens and17,709 phrase types in the 1102 technical abstracts.We evaluated the accuracy of our lemmatizationmethod (Section 5.2) and the effectiveness of ourmethod in information retrieval (Section 5.3) expe-rimentally.1 http://www.itpark.mn/ (October, 2007)5.2 Evaluating lemmatizationTwo Mongolian graduate students served as asses-sors.
Neither of the assessors was an author of thispaper.
The assessors provided the correct answersfor lemmatization.
The assessors also tagged eachword with its part of speech.The two assessors performed the same task in-dependently.
Differences can occur between twoassessors on this task.
We measured the agreementof the two assessors by the Kappa coefficient,which ranges from 0 to 1.
The Kappa coefficientsfor performing lemmatization and tagging of partsof speech were 0.96 and 0.94, respectively, whichrepresents almost perfect agreement (Landis andKoch, 1977).
However, to enhance the objectivityof the evaluation, we used only the phrases forwhich the two assessors agreed with respect to thepart of speech and lemmatization.We were able to use the noun and verb dictiona-ries of Sanduijav et al (2005).
Therefore, we com-pared our lemmatization method with Sanduijav etal.
(2005) and Khaltar et al (2006) in terms of ac-curacy.Accuracy is the ratio of the number of phrasescorrectly lemmatized by the method under evalua-tion to the total number of target phrases.
Here, thetarget phrases are noun, verb, adjective, and num-eral phrases.Table 1 shows the results of lemmatization.
Wetargeted 15,478 phrase types in the technical ab-stracts.
Our experiment is the largest evaluation forMongolian lemmatization in the literature.
In con-trast, Sanduijav et al (2005) and Khaltar et al(2006) used only 680 and 1167 phrase types, re-spectively, for evaluation purposes.In Table 1, the accuracy of our method fornouns, which were targeted in all three methods,was higher than those of Sanduijav et al (2005)and Khaltar et al (2006).
Because our method andthat of Sanduijav et al (2005) used the same verbdictionary, the accuracy for verbs is principally thesame for both methods.
The accuracy for verbswas low, because a number of verbs were not in-cluded in the verb dictionary and were mistakenlylemmatized as noun phrases.
However, this prob-lem will be solved by enhancing the verb dictio-nary in the future.
In total, the accuracy of our me-thod was higher than those of Sanduijav et al(2005) and Khaltar et al (2006).5Table 1: Accuracy of lemmatization (%).#PhrasetypesSanduijavet al(2005)Khaltaret al(2006)OurmethodNoun 13,016 57.6 87.7 92.5Verb 1,797 24.5 23.8 24.5Adjective 609 82.6 83.5 83.9Numeral 56 41.1 80.4 81.2Total 15,478 63.2 72.3 78.2We analyzed the errors caused by our method inFigure 7.
In the column ?Example?, the left sideand the right side of an arrow denote an error andthe correct answer, respectively.The error (a) occurred to nouns, adjectives, andnumerals, in which the ending of a content wordwas mistakenly recognized as a suffix and was re-moved.
The error (b) occurred because we did notconsider irregular nouns.
The error (c) occurred toloanword nouns because the loanword identifica-tion rule was not sufficient.
The error (d) occurredbecause we relied on a verb dictionary.
The error(e) occurred because a number of nouns were in-correctly lemmatized as verbs.For the errors (a)-(c), we have not found solu-tions.
The error (d) can be solved by enhancing theverb dictionary in the future.
If we are able to usepart of speech information, we can solve the error(e).
There are a number of automatic methods fortagging parts of speech (Brill, 1997), which havepromise for alleviating the error (e).5.3 Evaluating the effectiveness of lemmatiza-tion in information retrievalWe evaluated the effectiveness of lemmatizationmethods in indexing for information retrieval.
Notest collection for Mongolian information retrievalis available to the public.
We used the 1102 tech-nical abstracts to produce our test collection.Figure 8 shows an example technical abstract, inwhich the title is ?Advanced Albumin FusionTechnology?
in English.
Each technical abstractcontains one or more keywords.
In Figure 8, key-words, such as ??????
??????
(blood serum)?and ?????
(placenta)?
are annotated.We used two different types of queries for ourevaluation.
First, we used each keyword as a query,which we call ?keyword query (KQ)?.
Second, weused each keyword list as a query, which we call?list query (LQ)?.
The average number for key-words in the keywords list was 6.1.
For each query,Reasons of errors #Errors Example(a) Word ending isthe same as a suffix.
274????
?
??
?sort(b) Noun pluraltense is irregular.
244??????
?
???
?animal(c) Noun loanwordends with two con-sonants.94????????
?
????????
?dinosaur(d) Verb does notexist in our verbdictionary.689?????
?
?????
?to code(e) Word corres-ponds to multiplepart of speech.853????
?
?
?country   interFigure 7: Errors of our lemmatization method.we used as the relevant documents the abstractsthat were annotated with the query keyword in thekeywords field.
Thus, we were able to avoid thecost of relevance judgments.The target documents are the 1102 technical ab-stracts, from which we extracted content words inthe title, abstract, and result fields as index terms.However, we did not use the keywords field forindexing purposes.
We used Okapi BM25 (Robert-son et al, 1995) as the retrieval model.We used the lemmatization methods in Table 2to extract content words and compared the MeanAverage Precision (MAP) of each method usingKQ and LQ.
MAP has commonly been used toevaluate the effectiveness of information retrieval.Because there were many queries for which theaverage precision was zero in all methods, we dis-carded those queries.
There were 686 remainingKQs and 273 remaining LQs.The average number of relevant documents foreach query was 2.1.
Although this number is small,the number of queries is large.
Therefore, our eval-uation result can be stable, as in evaluations forquestion answering (Voorhees and Tice, 2000).We can derive the following points from Table 2.First, to clarify the effectiveness of the lemmatiza-tion in information retrieval, we compare ?nolemmatization?
with the other methods.
Any lem-matization method improved the MAP for both KQand LQ.
Thus, lemmatization was effective forinformation retrieval in Mongolian.
Second, wecompare the MAP of our method with those ofSanduijav et al (2005) and Khaltar et al (2006).Our method was more effective than the method ofSanduijav et al (2005) for both KQ and LQ.
How-ever, the difference between Khaltar et al (2006)and our method was small for KQ and our method6Figure 8: Example of technical abstract.Table 2: MAP of lemmatization methods.Keyword query List queryNo lemmatization 0.2312 0.2766Sanduijav et al (2005) 0.2882 0.2834Khaltar et al (2006) 0.3134 0.3127Our method 0.3149 0.3114Correct lemmatization 0.3268 0.3187was less effective than Khaltar et al(2006) for LQ.This is because although we enhanced the lemma-tization for verbs, adjectives, numerals, and loan-words, the effects were overshadowed by a largenumber of queries comprising conventional Mon-golian nouns.
Finally, our method did not outper-form the method using the correct lemmatization.We used the paired t-test for statistical testing,which investigates whether the difference in per-formance is meaningful or simply because ofchance (Keen, 1992).
Table 3 shows the results, inwhich ?<?
and ?<<?
indicate that the difference oftwo results was significant at the 5% and 1% levels,respectively, and ???
indicates that the differenceof two results was not significant.Looking at Table 3, the differences between nolemmatization and any lemmatization method,such as Sanduijav et al (2005), Khaltar et al(2006), our method, and correct lemmatization,were statistically significant in MAP for KQ.However, because the MAP value of no lemmati-zation was improved for LQ, the differences be-tween no lemmatization and the lemmatization me-thods were less significant than those for KQ.
Thedifference between Sanduijav et al (2005) and ourmethod was statistically significant in MAP forboth KQ and LQ.
However, the difference betweenKhaltar et al (2006) and our method was not sig-nificant in MAP for both KQ and LQ.
Although,the difference between our method and correctlemmatization was statistically significant in MAPfor KQ, the difference was not significant in MAPfor LQ.Table 3: t-test result of the differences betweenlemmatization methods.Keyword query List queryNo lemmatization vs.Correct lemmatization << <No lemmatization vs.Sanduijav et al (2005) << ?No lemmatization vs.Khaltar et al (2006) << <No lemmatization vs.Our method << <Sanduijav et al (2005)vs. Our method << <Khaltar et al (2006) vs.Our method ?
?Our method vs. Correctlemmatization < ?6 ConclusionIn Modern Mongolian, a content word can poten-tially be inflected when concatenated with suffixes.Identifying the original forms of content words iscrucial for natural language processing and infor-mation retrieval.In this paper, we proposed a lemmatization me-thod for Modern Mongolian.
We enhanced thelemmatization method proposed by Khaltar et al(2006).
We targeted nouns, verbs, adjectives, andnumerals.
We also improved the lemmatization forloanwords.We evaluated our lemmatization method expe-rimentally.
The accuracy of our method was higherthan those of existing methods.
We also appliedour lemmatization method to information retrievaland improved the retrieval accuracy.Future work includes using a part of speech tag-ger because the part of speech information is effec-tive for lemmatization.ReferencesVinsensius Berlian Vega S N and St?phane Bressan.2001.
Indexing the Indonesian Web: Language iden-tification and miscellaneous issues.
Tenth Interna-tional World Wide Web Conference, Hong Kong.Eric Brill.
1997.
Natural Language Processing UsingVery Large Corpora.
Kluwer Academic Press.Johan Carlberger, Hercules Dalianis, Martin Hassel, andOla Knutsson.
2001.
Improving Precision in Informa-tion Retrieval for Swedish using Stemming.
Proceed-ings of NODALIDA ?01 - 13th Nordic Conference onComputational Linguistics.Title: ????????
?????????
?????????
????????
?Author?s name: ????
?????
?Keywords: ?????
?????
?, ????
?Abstract: ??????????
?????
??????
5, 10% ???
?Result: ?????????
??????
?????????
?, ??????
?7Terumasa Ehara, Suzushi Hayata, and Nobuyuki Kimu-ra.
2004.
Mongolian morphological analysis usingChaSen.
Proceedings of the 10th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Natural Language Processing,pp.
709-712.
(In Japanese).
?una F. Ekmek?ioglu, Michael F. Lynch, and PeterWillett.
1996.
Stemming and n-gram matching forterm conflation in Turkish texts.
Information Re-search News, Vol.
7, No.
1, pp.
2-6.David A.
Hull.
1996.
Stemming algorithms ?
a casestudy for detailed evaluation.
Journal of the Ameri-can Society for Information Science and Technology,Vol.
47, No.
1, pp.
70-84.Lauri Karttunen and Kenneth R. Beesley.
2003.
FiniteState Morphology.
CSLI Publications.
Stanford.Micheal E. Keen.
1992.
Presenting results of experi-mental retrieval comparisons.
InformationProcessing and Management, Vol.
28, No.
4, pp.491-502.Badam-Osor Khaltar, Atsushi Fujii, and Tetsuya Ishi-kawa.
2006.
Extracting loanwords from Mongoliancorpora and producing a Japanese-Mongolian bilin-gual dictionary.
Proceedings of the 21st InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics and 44thAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pp.
657-664.Tuomo Korenius, Jorma Laurikkala, Kalervo J?rvelin,and Martti Juhola.
2004.
Stemming andLemmatization in the Clustering of Finnish TextDocuments.
Proceedings of the thirteenth Associa-tion for Computing Machinery international confe-rence on Information and knowledge management.pp.
625-633.Richard J. Landis and Gary G. Koch.
1977.
The mea-surement of observer agreement for categorical data.Biometrics, Vol.
33, No.
1, pp.
159-174.Leah S. Larkey, Lisa Ballesteros, and Margaret E. Con-nel.
2002.
Improving Stemming for Arabic Informa-tion Retrieval: Light Stemming and Co-occurrenceAnalysis.
Proceedings of the 25th annual interna-tional ACM SIGIR conference on Research and de-velopment in information retrieval, pp.
275-282.Massimo Melucci and Nicola Orio.
2003.
A Novel Me-thod for Stemmer Generation Based on Hidden Mar-kov Models.
Proceedings of the twelfth internationalconference on Information and knowledge manage-ment, pp.
131-138.Mirko Popovi?
and Peter Willett.
1992.
The effective-ness of stemming for natural-language access to Slo-vene textual data.
Journal of the American Societyfor Information Science and Technology, Vol.
43, No.5, pp.
384-390.Martin F. Porter.
1980.
An algorithm for suffix strip-ping.
Program, Vol.
14, No.
3, pp.
130-137.Stephen E. Robertson, Steve Walker, Susan Jones,Micheline Hancock-Beaulieu, and Mike Gatford.1995.
Okapi at TREC-3.
Proceedings of the ThirdText REtrieval Conference, NIST Special Publication500-226.
pp.
109-126.Enkhbayar Sanduijav, Takehito Utsuro, and SatoshiSato.
2005.
Mongolian phrase generation and mor-phological analysis based on phonological and mor-phological constraints.
Journal of Natural LanguageProcessing, Vol.
12, No.
5, pp.
185-205.
(In Japa-nese) .Sock Y. Tai, Cheng O. Ong, and Noor A. Abdullah.2000.
On designing an automated Malaysian stem-mer for the Malay language.
Proceedings of the fifthinternational workshop on information retrieval withAsian languages, Hong Kong, pp.
207-208.Bayarmaa Ts.
2002.
Mongolian grammar for grades I-IV.
(In Mongolian).Ellen M. Voorhees and Dawn M. Tice.
2000.
Building aQuestion Answering Test Collection.
Proceedings ofthe 23rd Annual International ACM SIGIR Confe-rence on Research and Development in InformationRetrieval, pp.
200-207.Jinxi Xu and Bruce W. Croft.
1998.
Corpus-basedstemming using co-occurrence of word variants.ACM Transactions on Information Systems, Vol.
16,No.
1, pp.
61-81.8
