Domain-Specific Query Translation for Multilingual Information Accessusing Machine Translation Augmented With DictionariesMined from WikipediaGareth J. F. Jones, Fabio Fantino, Eamonn Newman, Ying ZhangCentre for Digital Video ProcessingDublin City UniversityDublin 9, Ireland{gjones,enewman,yzhang}@computing.dcu.ieAbstractAccurate high-coverage translation is a vi-tal component of reliable cross language in-formation access (CLIA) systems.
Whilemachine translation (MT) has been shownto be effective for CLIA tasks in previousevaluation workshops, it is not well suitedto specialized tasks where domain specifictranslations are required.
We demonstratethat effective query translation for CLIA canbe achieved in the domain of cultural her-itage (CH).
This is performed by augment-ing a standard MT system with domain-specific phrase dictionaries automaticallymined from the online Wikipedia.
Exper-iments using our hybrid translation systemwith sample query logs from users of CHwebsites demonstrate a large improvementin the accuracy of domain specific phrase de-tection and translation.1 IntroductionReliable translation is a key component of effectiveCross Language Information Access (CLIA) sys-tems.
Various approaches to translation have beenexplored at evaluation workshops such as TREC1,CLEF2 and NTCIR3.
Experiments at these work-shops have been based on laboratory collectionsconsisting of news articles or technical reports with?TREC?
style queries with a minimum length of a1trec.nist.gov2http://www.clef-campaign.org/3http://research.nii.ac.jp/ntcir/full sentence.
Test collection design at these work-shops often ensures that there are a reasonable num-ber of relevant documents available for each query.In such cases general purpose translation resourcesbased on bilingual dictionaries and standard ma-chine translation (MT) have been shown to be ef-fective for translation in CLIA.
However, this is lesslikely to be the case when translating the very shortqueries typically entered by general users of searchengines, particularly when they are seeking informa-tion in a specific domain.Online cultural heritage (CH) content is currentlyappearing in many countries produced by organisa-tions such as national libraries, museums, galleriesand audiovisual archives.
Additionally, there are in-creasing amounts of CH relevant content availablemore generally on the World Wide Web.
Whilesome of this material concerns national or regionalcontent only of local interest, much material relatesto items involving multiple nations and languages,for example concerning events or groups encom-passing large areas of Europe or Asia.
In order togain a full understanding of such things, includingdetails contained in different collections and explor-ing different cultural perspectives, often requires ef-fective multilingual search technologies.CH content encompasses various different media,including of course text documents, but also im-ages, videos, and audio recordings which may onlybe described by very limited metadata labels.
Suchmetadata may include simple factual details such asdate of creation, but also descriptive details relat-ing to the contents of the item and interpretationand contextualization of the content.
Multilingualsearching using metadata content requires that ei-ther the metadata be translated into a language withwhich the user is able to search or that the searchquery be translated into the language of the meta-data.
This alternative of document or query trans-lation is a well rehearsed argument in CLIA, whichhas generally concerned itself with full text docu-ment searching.
However, the features of metadatarequire a more careful analysis.
Metadata is typi-cally dense in search terms, while lacking the lin-guistic structure and information redundancy of fulltext documents.
The absence of linguistic struc-ture makes precise translation of content problem-atic, while the lack of redundancy means that accu-rate translation of individual words and phrases be-tween the query and document is vital to minimizemismatch between query and document terms.
De-veloping reliable and robust approaches to transla-tion for metadata search is thus an important com-ponent of search for many CH archives.The EU FP6 MultiMatch4 project is concernedwith information access for multimedia and multi-lingual content for a range of European languages.In this paper we report on the MultiMatch querytranslation methods we are developing to deal withdomain-specific language in the CH domain.
Wedemonstrate the effectiveness of these techniquesusing example query logs from CH sites in English,Spanish and Italian.
We translate the queries and ex-amine the quality of these translations using humanannotation.
We show how a domain-specific phrasedictionary can be used to augment traditional gen-eral MT systems to improve the coverage and relia-bility of translation of these queries.
We also showhow retrieval performance on CH image metadata isimproved with the use of these improved, domain-specific translations.The remainder of this paper is organized as fol-lows: Section 2 introduces the translation resourcesused for this study, Section 3 describes our experi-mental setup and results, Section 4 summarizes ourconclusions, and Section 5 gives details of our on-going work.4www.multimatch.org2 Query Translation TechniquesThe MT approach to query translation for CLIAuses an existing MT system to provide automatictranslation.
Using MT systems for query transla-tion is widely used in CLIA when such a systemis available for the particular language pair underconsideration.
Results reported at the standard re-trieval evaluation workshops have often shown itto be competitive with other translation methods.However, while MT systems can provide reasonabletranslations for general language expressions, theyare often not sufficient for domain-specific phrasesthat contain personal names, place names, techni-cal terms, titles of artworks, etc.
In addition, cer-tain words and phrases hold special meanings in aspecific domain.
For example, the Spanish phrase?Canto general?
is translated into English as ?gen-eral song?, which is arguably correct.
However, inthe CH domain, ?Canto general?
refers to a book ti-tle from Pablo Neruda?s book of poems and shouldbe translated directly into English as the phrase?Canto general?.
Multiple-word phrases are moreinformation-bearing and more unambiguously rep-resented than single words.
They are often domain-specific and typically absent from static lexicons.Effective translation of such phrases is therefore par-ticularly critical for short queries that are typicallyentered by non-expert users of search engines.The focus of the research reported in this paperis a method to improve translation effectiveness ofphrases previously untranslated or inappropriatelytranslated by a standard MT system.
In this work wecombine an MT system with domain-specific phrasedictionaries mined from the online Wikipedia.
Thenext sections describe the construction of our dictio-naries and their combination with the MT system.2.1 Phrase Dictionary ConstructionOur phrase translation system uses domain-specificphrase dictionaries built by mining the onlineWikipedia5.
As a multilingual hypertext medium,Wikipedia has been shown to be a valuable newsource of translation information (Adafre and deRijke, 2005; Adafre and de Rijke, 2006; Boumaet al, 2006; Declerck et al, 2006).
Wikipedia isstructured as an interconnected network of articles,5http://wikipedia.orgFigure 1: An example of Italian?English query translation.in particular, wikipedia page titles in one languageare often linked to a multilingual database of cor-responding terms.
Unlike the web, most hyper-links in wikipedia have a more consistent patternand meaningful interpretation.
For example, the En-glish wikipedia page http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cupid_and_Psyche hyperlinks to its counter-part written in Italian http://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amore_e_Psiche, where the basenames ofthese two URLs (?Cupid and Psyche?
and ?Amore ePsiche?)
are an English?Italian translation pair.
TheURL basename can be considered to be a term (sin-gle word or multiple-word phrase) that should betranslated as a unit.Utilizing the multilingual linkage feature ofWikipedia, we implement a three-stage automaticprocess to mine wikipedia pages as a translationsource and construct phrase dictionaries in the cul-ture heritage domain.1.
First, we performed a web crawl from the En-glish wikipedia, Category: Culture.
This cate-gory contains links to articles and subcategoriesconcerning arts, religions, traditions, entertain-ment, philosophy, etc.
The crawl process is re-stricted to the category of culture including allof its recursive subcategories.
In total, we col-lected 458, 929 English pages.2.
For each English page obtained, we extractedthe hyperlinks to each of the query languages(Italian and Spanish).3.
We then selected the basenames of eachpair of hyperlinks (English?Italian, English?Spanish) as translations and added them intoour domain-specific dictionaries.
The multiple-word phrases were added into the phrase dictio-nary for each language.
These phrase dictionar-ies are later used for dictionary-based phraseidentification.The dictionaries we compiled contain about 90, 000,70, 000, and 80, 000 distinct multiple-word phrasesin English, Italian, and Spanish respectively.
Themajority of the phrases extracted are CH domain-specific named entities and the rest of them aregeneral noun-based phrases, such as ?Music of Ire-land?
and ?Philosophy of history?.
We did not ap-ply any classifier to filter out the general noun-basedphrases, since such phrases play an equally impor-tant role in the query translation process as domain-specific named entities.2.2 Improved MT-based TranslationFigure 1 shows our query translation process whichproceeds as follows:Lexical rule-based phrase identification Given aquery, the first task is to locate phrases.
Three meth-ods of multiple-word phrase identification have beencommonly used: lexical rule-based (Ballesteros andCroft, 1997; Hull and Grefenstette, 1996), statisti-cal (Coenen et al, 2007; Gao et al, 2001), and syn-tactical methods (Sharma and Raman, 2003; Gel-bukh et al, 2004; Van de Cruys and Villada Moiro?n,2007).
The lexical rule-based approach with max-imum forward matching was adopted in our querytranslation process due to its robust performance andcomputational simplicity.
The query is sequentiallyscanned to match the phrase dictionary.
The longestmatched subsequence is taken as a phrase and trans-lated via a domain-specific dictionary lookup.
Thisprocess is recursively invoked on the remaining partof the query until no matches are found.
The per-formance of this approach depends strongly on thecompleteness of the coverage of the adopted dictio-nary.
Our experimental results showed that at leastone phrase is detected in 90% of the testing queries,for example, personal names, geographic locations,and titles of various types of artworks.
This indicatesthat the phrase dictionaries we compiled can be usedto accurately identify phrases in web queries.WorldLingo machine translation We translatethe original query into the target language using theWorldLingo6 MT system.
WorldLingo was selectedfor the MultiMatch project because it generally pro-vides good translation between English, Spanish,Italian, and Dutch ?
the languages relevant to theMultimatch project.
In addition, it provides a usefulAPI that can be used to translate queries in real-timevia HTTP transfer protocol.Phrase translation validation For each of thephrases previously recognized, we again pass it tothe MT system and the translation Tmt of this phraseis returned by WorldLingo.
Tmt is then replaced intheWorldLingo translation of the query by the trans-lations(s) Tdict from our domain-specific dictionary,if Tmt 6= Tdict.
This allows us to correct unreliablephrase translations generated by the MT system.3 Experimental InvestigationThe goal of our experiments was to evaluate theusefulness and the accuracy of the domain-specifictranslation dictionaries.
Instead of using queriesfrom a standard information retrieval test collection,we experimented with queries explicitly seeking CHinformation from real query log data provided byCH organisations.3.1 Query LogThe query log data used in this investigation wasprovided by three European CH organisations par-6http://worldlingo.com# Detected # UntranslatedProportionby dictionaries by WorldLingoEN?IT 14 11 79%EN?ES 19 11 58%IT?EN 83 33 40%ES?EN 74 33 45%Table 1: Number of detected phrases using thedomain-specific dictionaries.Total# Exactly # + Extra # + Minorcorrect translations noiseEN?IT 14 13 1 0EN?ES 19 17 1 1IT?EN 83 40 43 0ES?EN 74 37 5 32Table 2: Correctness of the translations of detecteddomain-specific phrases.ticipating in the MultiMatch project, and is takenfrom their archives of real user queries.
The dataconsists of 100 English, 1048 Italian, and 1088Spanish distinct web queries and the number of hitsof each query.
The top 200 most popular multiple-word queries in Italian and Spanish were selected asthe queries for testing.
Due to the smaller size ofthe English query log, we only obtained English 53phrasal queries.We used two methods of evaluation: first, the dic-tionary usefulness and the translation effectivenessare judged extrinsically by human assessment; andsecond, evaluation using a parallel Italian?Englishmetadata document set explored how translation af-fects the retrieval performance of an information re-trieval system.3.2 Human Judgement EvaluationThe WorldLingo MT system was used to translateSpanish and Italian queries into English and viceversa.
Our domain-specific dictionaries were usedto translate phrases within the queries into the sametarget languages.
It should be noted that it is not pos-sible to directly compare the lexical coverage of ourdomain-specific dictionaries and the built-in phrasedictionaries of WorldLingo since we don?t have ac-cess to the internal WorldLingo dictionaries.To evaluate the usefulness of our dictionaries, weobserved the proportion of domain-specific phrasesin the various query sets that can be translated us-ing our domain-specific dictionaries mined from theweb, but are incorrectly translated by WorldLingo.Original Query WorldLingo Translation Improved Machine TranslationEN?ITturner east sussex Turner Sussex orientale Turner East Sussexstill life flowers fiori di vita tranquilla fiori di Natura mortafrancis bacon Francis Bacon Francesco Baconepop art arte di schiocco Pop artm c escher escher di m. c Maurits Cornelis Escheramerican 60?s americano 60?s americano Anni 1960EN?ESvanessa bell campana del vanessa Vanessa Bellturner east sussex Turner sussex del este Turner East Sussexhenry moore moore del Henrio Henry Moorestill life flowers flores de la vida inmo?vil flores de Bodego?nguerrilla girls muchachas del guerrilla Guerrilla GirlsIT?ENleonardo da vinci leonardo from you win Da Vinci, Leonardo da Vinci,Leonardo daVinci, Leonardo de Vinciduomo di milano dome of Milan Cathedral of Milan, Duomo di Milan,Duomo di Milano, Duomo of Milan, Milan Cathedralbeni culturali cultural assets Cultural heritagearte povera poor art Arte poverasan lorenzo saint lorenzo Lawrence of Rome, Saint Lawrence, St Lawrence,gentile da fabriano kind from fabriano Gentile da Fabrianostatua della liberta statue of the freedom Statue of Libertyaldo rossi aldo red Aldo Rossiarnaldo pomodoro arnaldo tomato Arnaldo Pomodorola cattura di cristo di caravaggio the capture of caravaggio Christ The Taking of Christ caravaggioES?ENlope de vega lope of fertile valley Lope de Vegaliteratura infantil infantile Literature Children?s book, Children?s books,Children?s literaturecantar de mio cid to sing of mine cid Cantar de mio Cid, Lay of the Cid, The Lay of the Cidel quijote de la mancha quijote of the spot quijote of La Manchadulce maria loynaz candy Maria loynaz Dulce Mar?
?a Loynazandres bello andres beautiful Andre?s Bellofilosofia del derecho philosophy of the right Philosophy of lawelogio de la locura praise of madness In Praise of Folly, Praise of Folly, The Praise of Follyla regenta it runs it La Regentacristobal colon cristobal colon Christopher Colombus, Christopher Columbus,Cristopher ColumbusTable 3: Some examples of improved translations using the domain-specific dictionaries.
(The correctedphrase translations are in italic.
)Namely, we tested the ability of our system todetect and correct the presence of unreliable MTtranslations for domain-specific phrases.
Translatedphrases for these queries can generally be judgedunambiguously as correct or incorrect by a bilin-gual speaker of the languages involved, and so weare confident that assessment of translation accuracyhere does not involve significant degrees of subjec-tivity.As shown in Table 1, we can see that 79%, 58%,40%, and 45% of incorrect MT-translated phraseswere able to be corrected using the domain-specificdictionaries mined from wikipedia, in EN?IT, EN?ES, IT?EN, and ES?EN translation tasks, respec-tively.
Our system leads to a large improvement inMT translation for domain-specific phrases.
Someexamples of improved query translations are shownin Table 3.We also conducted an investigation on the cor-rectness of the translation mined from wikipedia,as shown in Table 2.
Exact correct translation isstrictly-correct single translation.
Extra translationrefers to strictly-correct multiple translations, forexample, ?Cathedral of Milan, Duomo di Milan,Duomo di Milano, Duomo of Milan, Milan Cathe-dral?
(Italian: Duomo di Milano).
It is interesting toobserve that about 50% of Italian phrases are foundto have multiple correct English translations due tomultiple English wikipedia pages being redirectedto the same Italian pages.
Some minor noise is ob-served when the correct translation contains somerelated additional words, such as ?Alfonso XII ofSpain?
(Spanish: Alfonso XII).
When used for in-formation retrieval, this additional information cansometimes improve effectiveness.We are not able to manually evaluate the accuracyof all translation pairs in our bilingual dictionariesdue to limited resources.
However, our results forsample queries from user logs demonstrate that ourtranslations are generally highly accurate.3.3 Intrinsic Evaluation Using IR SystemOur information retrieval experiments were per-formed on a database of metadata associated with acollection of 5000 CH photographs.
The metadata todescribe each artifact in the collection is available inEnglish and in Italian.
Each photograph is describedidentically in both languages.
We formed a separatesearch index for English and Italian.
Search was car-ried out using the Lucene search engine7.
We carriedout an evaluation based on this collection which pro-ceeded as follows:1.
Submit the original queries to the index andrecord the ranked list of references returned.2.
Submit the translated queries to the appropriateindex and record the ranked list of referencesreturned.3.
Find the correlation between the lists returnedfor the native language queries and the queriestranslated to that language.4.
The better translation will have the strongercorrelation with the native language list.Due to the fact that the corpus was only completein the Italian and English versions, we were unableto include the Spanish queries in this part of the eval-uation.
Also, while this collection is based in the CHdomain, some of the queries yield no relevant docu-ments due to their specialist nature.
The collectionof queries for which meaningful retrieval results are7http://lucene.apache.org/returned is too small to allow for a quantitative anal-ysis of retrieval effectiveness.
Therefore, we presenta qualitative analysis of some of the more interestingcases.3.3.1 Italian?English translationsThe Italian queries cover a wide range of Italianinterests in CH.
We present here a sample of someof the more interesting results.Arnaldo Pomodoro This refers to an Italian artist,but the name ?Pomodoro?
is translated to ?Tomato?in English by WorldLingo.
While there were noreferences to the artist in the collection, all docu-ments returned contained the term ?tomato?
(refer-ring to the vegetable) which are irrelevant to thequery.
The dictionary-based translation recognizedthe name and therefore left it untranslated.
It ispreferable to retrieve no documents rather than toretrieve irrelevant ones.Amore e Psiche This refers to the sculpture en-titled ?Cupid and Psyche?
in English.
This phrasewas matched in our phrase dictionary and translatedcorrectly.
The MT system translated this as ?Love,Psyche?.
The dictionary translation was observedto retrieve relevant documents with greater precisionsince it matched against the more specific term ?Cu-pid?, as opposed to the more general term ?Love?.David Michaelangelo This query provided acounterexample.
The phrase dictionary added theterm ?statue?
to the translated query.
This led to re-trieval of a large number of non-relevant documents.3.3.2 English?Italian translationsAs with the Italian queries, there was not muchoverlap between the query log and the document col-lection.
Some of the interesting translations include:pop art This phrase was recognized by ourdomain-specific dictionary, and so was left in itsoriginal form for searching in Italian.
Interestingly,this led to an improvement in search accuracy for thequery compared to that in the English language col-lection.
For the English index, this phrase matchedmany non-relevant documents which contained theword ?art?.
However, when searching in the Italianindex, where ?art?
is not a word encountered in thegeneral vocabulary, the phrase retrieves only 7 doc-uments, of which 5 were relevant.Turner East Sussex The place name ?East Sus-sex?
was correctly recognized and translated by ourphrase dictionary.
However the MT system againfailed to recognise it and translated the partial term?East?
to ?Orientale?.
The presence of the term?Orientale?
in the translated query resulted in manynon-relevant documents being retrieved, reducingthe precision of the query.The examples given in this section provide anec-dotal evidence to support the view that the auto-matically mined domain-specific phrase dictionaryimproves the performance of the retrieval system.Query sets and relevance judgements are being cre-ated for the MultiMatch document set by domain ex-perts who compiled the original collections.
Thuswe will be able to ensure that the query sets are agood representative sample of the information needsof the typical user.
These test collections will allowus to conduct full quantitative analysis of our sys-tem.4 ConclusionsWe have presented an automatic mining system de-veloped for construction of domain-specific phrasedictionaries.
Phrases not translated by a generalMT system are shown to be translated effectivelyusing these dictionaries.
The extracted translationswere evaluated by human assessment and shown tobe highly accurate.
We have also demonstrated away to combine these dictionaries with MT for top-ical phrases in the culture heritage domain.
Our ex-perimental results show that we were able to detectand correct a large proportion of domain-specificphrases unsuccessfully translated by MT, and thusimprove information retrieval effectiveness and fa-cilitate MLIA.5 Ongoing WorkIn our ongoing work we plan to further extend thecoverage of our dictionaries by exploring the min-ing of other translations pairs from within the linkedWikipedia pages.
While the method described in thispaper has been shown to be effective for query trans-lation, we have so far only demonstrated its behav-ior for a very small number of queries to our CLIAsystem.
We are currently developing test collectionsbased on several CH data sets to evaluate the effec-tiveness of our hybrid query translation method.AcknowledgementWork partially supported by European Communityunder the Information Society Technologies (IST)programme of the 6th FP for RTD ?
project Mul-tiMATCH contract IST?033104.
The authors aresolely responsible for the content of this paper.
Itdoes not represent the opinion of the European Com-munity, and the European Community is not respon-sible for any use that might be made of data appear-ing therein.ReferencesSisay Fissaha Adafre and Maarten de Rijke.
2005.
Dis-covering missing links in Wikipedia.
In Proceedingsof the 3rd International Workshop on Link Discovery,pages 90?97, Chicago, Illinois, United States.
ACMPress.Sisay Fissaha Adafre and Maarten de Rijke.
2006.
Find-ing similar sentences across multiple languages inWikipedia.
In Proceedings of the 11th Conference ofthe European Chapter of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 62?69, Trento, Italy.Lisa Ballesteros and W. Bruce Croft.
1997.
Phrasaltranslation and query expansion techniques for cross-language information retrieval.
In Proceedings of the20th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference onResearch and Development in Information Retrieval,pages 84?91, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
ACM Press.Gosse Bouma, Ismail Fahmi, Jori Mur, Gertjan van No-ord, Lonneke van der Plas, and Jorg Tiedemann.
2006.The University of Groningen at QA@CLEF 2006 us-ing syntactic knowledge for QA.
In Working Notesfor the Cross Language Evaluation Forum 2006 Work-shop, Alicante, Spain.Frans Coenen, Paul H. Leng, Robert Sanderson, andYanbo J. Wang.
2007.
Statistical identification of keyphrases for text classification.
In Machine Learningand Data Mining in Pattern Recognition, volume 4571of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 838?853.Springer.Thierry Declerck, Asuncio`n Go`mez Pe`rez, Ovidiu Vela,Zeno Gantner, and David Manzano-Macho.
2006.Multilingual lexical semantic resources for ontologytranslation.
In Proceedings of the 5th InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation,Genoa, Italy.
ELDA.Jianfeng Gao, Jian-Yun Nie, Endong Xun, Jian Zhang,Ming Zhou, and Changning Huang.
2001.
Improv-ing query translation for cross-language informationretrieval using statistical models.
In Proceedings of the24th Annual International ACM SIGIR conference onResearch and Development in information retrieval,pages 96?104, New Orleans, Louisiana, United States.ACM Press.Alexander F. Gelbukh, Grigori Sidorov, Sang-Yong Han,and Erika Herna?ndez-Rubio.
2004.
Automatic syn-tactic analysis for detection of word combinations.
InProceedings of the 5th International Conference onComputational Linguistics and Intelligent Text Pro-cessing, volume 2945 of Lecture Notes in ComputerScience, pages 243?247.
Springer.David A.
Hull and Gregory Grefenstette.
1996.
Query-ing across languages: a dictionary-based approach tomultilingual information retrieval.
In Proceedings ofthe 19th Annual International ACM SIGIR Confer-ence on Research and Development in Information Re-trieval, pages 49?57, Zurich, Switzerland.
ACM Press.Rupali Sharma and S. Raman.
2003.
Phrase-based textrepresentation for managing the web documents.
InProceedings of the International Conference on Infor-mation Technology: Computers and Communications,page 165, Washington, DC, USA.
IEEE Computer So-ciety.Tim Van de Cruys and Begon?a Villada Moiro?n.
2007.Semantics-based multiword expression extraction.
InProceedings of the Workshop on A Broader Perspec-tive on Multiword Expressions, pages 25?32, Prague,Czech Republic, June.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.
