Introduction to Text Summarization and Other InformationAccess TechnologiesHoracio SaggionNatural Language Processing GroupUniversity of Sheffield211 Portobello Street - Sheffield - S1 4DPEngland - United Kingdomsaggion@dcs.shef.ac.ukAbstractIn recent years we have witnessed an explosionof on-line unstructured information in multi-ple languages, making natural language process-ing technologies such as automatic text summa-rization increasingly important for the informa-tion society.
Text Summarization provides userswith condensed descriptions of documents, al-lowing them to make informed decisions basedon text summaries.
Text summarization can becombined with Information Retrieval (IR) andQuestion Answering (QA) to provide users withfocus-based or query-based summaries whichare targeted towards the users?
specific needs.When the information a user looks for is spreadacross multiple sources, text summarization canbe used to condense facts and present a non-redundant account of the most relevant factsfound across a set of documents.The objective of this IJCNLP 2008 tutorialis to give an overview of a number of tech-nologies in natural language processing for in-formation access including: single and multi-document summarization, cross-lingual summa-rization; and summarization in the context ofquestion answering.The tutorial will discuss summarization con-cepts and techniques as well as its relation andrelevance to other technologies such as informa-tion retrieval and question answering.
It willalso include description of available resources fordevelopment, training and evaluation of summa-rization components.
A summarization (multi-document and multilingual) toolkit will be usedfor demonstration purposes.
A number of ques-tion answering components relevant for the cre-ation of definitional summaries and profiles willalso be demonstrated.BiographyDr.
Saggion is a research fellow in the Natu-ral Language Processing group, Department ofComputer Science, University of Sheffield, Eng-land, UK.
His area of expertise is Text Summa-rization.
He works in national and internationalprojects on information extraction, ontology-based information extraction, question answer-ing, and text summarization.
He obtained hisPhD.
in 2000 from Universite?
de Montre?al, De-partement d?Informatique et de Recherche Op-erationnelle.
He has published over 50 works inconferences, workshops and journal papers.
To-gether with his research career, he has been anactive teacher, he was assistant professor andresearcher at Universidad de Buenos Aires, andUniversidad Nacional de Quilmes, and teach-ing assistant at Universite?
de Montre?al.
Hehas participated in a number of summarizationand question answering evaluations includingDUC 2004, DUC 2005, MSE 2005, TREC/QA2003, TREC/QA 2004, TREC/QA 2005.
Hehas recently organised the workshops ?Multi-source Multi-lingual Information Extraction andSummarization?
and ?Crossing Barriers in TextSummarization Research?
in the RANLP Con-ferences.
He has given courses and tutorialson Text Summarization and other technologiessuch as question answering in a number of inter-national venues such as ESSLLI and LREC.939
