Squibs and DiscussionsOn Coreferring: Coreference in MUC andRelated Annotation SchemesKees  van  Deemter*University of BrightonRodger Kibble*Goldsmiths CollegeIn this paper, it is argued that "coreference" annotations, as performed in the MUC communityfor example, go well beyond annotation of the relation of coreference proper.
As a result, it is notalways clear what semantic relation these annotations are encoding.
The paper discusses a numberof problems with these annotations and concludes that rethinking of the coreference task is neededbefore the task is expanded.
In particular, it suggests a division of labor whereby annotation of thecoreference r lation proper is separated from other tasks such as annotation of bound anaphoraand of the relation between asubject and a predicative NP.1.
Introduction: Coreference AnnotationVarious practical tasks requiring language technology including, for example, infor-mation extraction and text summarization, can be performed more reliably if it ispossible to automatically find parts of the text containing information about a giventopic.
For example, if a text summarizer has to select the most important informa-tion, in a given text, about the 1984 Wall Street crash, then the summarization taskis greatly helped if a program can automatically spot all the clauses in the text thatcontain information about this crash.
To evaluate a program of this kind, extensivelanguage corpora have been prepared in which human readers have annotated whathas been called the coreference relation.
These annotated corpora are then used as agold standard against which the program's achievements can be compared.
The re-lation of coreference has been defined as holding between two noun phrases if they"refer to the same entity" (Hirschman et al 1997).
More precisely, let us assume thatal and a2 are occurrences of noun phrases (NPs) and let us assume that both havea unique referent in the context in which they occur (i.e., their context in the corpusmakes them unambiguous).
Under these assumptions we can use a functional nota-tion, e.g.
Referent(a), as short for "the entity referred to by a"  and define (suppressingthe role of context):Definitional and a2 corefer if and only if Referent(a1) =Referent(a2).Putting it simply: to determine whether al and a2 corefer, first determine Referent(a1)and Referent(a2), then see if they are equal.Ideally, of course, one would like to annotate many other semantic relations thathold between parts of a text, because they are also relevant for text interpretation.
Onecandidate is the relation of anaphora.
Loosely speaking--and glossing over some dif-ficulties regarding the precise delimitation of anaphora (Sidner 1979; Partee 1989; van* Information Technology Research Institute, University of Brighton, Lewes Road, Brighton BN2 4GJ,UK.
E-mail: Kees.van.Deemter@itri.bton.ac.ukt Mathematical and Computing Science, Goldsmiths College, University of London, London SE14 6NW,UK.
E-mail: R.Kibble@gold.ac.uk(~) 2001 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 4Deemter 1992)--an NP O~ 1 is said to take an NP a2 as its anaphoric antecedent if andonly if al depends on Oz2 for its interpretation (e.g., Kamp and Reyle 1993).
It followsthat anaphora nd coreference are different hings.
Coreference, for example, is anequivalence r lation; anaphora, by contrast, is irreflexive, nonsymmetrical, nd non-transitive.
Secondly, anaphora, as it has just been defined, implies context-sensitivityof interpretation, and this is not true for coreference.
For example, a name (PresidentW.
I. Clinton) and a description (Hillary Rodham's husband) can corefer without eitherof the two depending on the other for its interpretation.
Anaphoric and coreferentialrelations can coincide, of course, but not all coreferential relations are anaphoric, norare all anaphoric relations coreferential.
(An example of the latter is bound anaphora,see Section 2.1.
)Coreference annotation has been a focus of the Sixth and Seventh Message Under-standing Conferences (MUC-6, MUC-7) and various other annotation exercises (e.g.,Passoneau 1997; Garside, Leech, and McEnery 1997; Davies et al 1998; Poesio 2000).
Inthis squib, we intend to point at some fundamental problems with many of these an-notation exercises, which are caused by a failure to distinguish properly between coref-erence, anaphora, and other, related phenomena.
Because the MUC project is the best-known example of coreference annotation, on which much subsequent work is based,and because of the public availability of the MUC Task Definition (TD, Hirschmanand Chinchor \[1997\]), we will focus on MUC.Four criteria are listed for the MUC TD, in order of their priority (Hirschman andChinchor 1997):.2.3.4.The MUC information extraction tasks should be supported by theannotationsGood (defined as ca.
95%) interannotator agreement should be achievableIt should be possible to annotate texts quickly and cheaplyA corpus should be created that can be used as a tool for linguistsoutside MUC.The TD makes it clear that the annotation task has been simplified in a number ofways.
For example, only NPs were annotated.
Such eminently sensible simplifica-tions notwithstanding, wewill argue that the above-mentioned criteria have not beenachieved and that a rethinking of the coreference annotation enterprise is in order be-fore it ventures into new domains involving speech, noisy data, etc.
(see for example,Bagga, Baldwin, and Shelton \[1999\]), or before it extends the relation of coreferenceto cover whole/part and class/instance r lations (e.g.
Popescu-Belis 1998; Hirschmanand Chinchor 1997).2.
Problems with Coreference AnnotationIn this section, some unclarities and inconsistencies will be discussed that we foundin the literature on coreference annotation, and which appear to stem from confusionabout what reference and coreference are.
In Section 2.1, we will explore the tendencyto apply coreference annotation to nonreferring NPs and bound anaphora, and wewill argue that this tendency is problematic.
In Section 2.2, we will argue that existingannotation enterprises still fail to respond properly to the well-known problem of howto annotate NPs that are used intensionally.
In Section 2.3, we turn to a suggestionfor the improvement of the actual process of annotation that has been made in the630van Deemter and Kibble On Coreferringliterature, namely to separate the task of determining the "markables" from that ofestablishing coreference r lations between them, showing that this separation is hardto maintain.
At the end of each subsection, some suggestions (Remedies) will be madeon how the problems may be tackled.
These suggestions will be elaborated in Section 3.2.1 Annotating Nonreferring NPs and Bound AnaphoraThe notion of reference is common to a broad variety of semantic theories (see Gamut\[1991\], Chapter 1, for discussion).
When speakers/writers use an NP to refer to anobject or a set of objects, they try to single out the entity uniquely.
Thus, when someoneutters the NP the tenant of the house, the speaker may aim to single out a unique person,say Mr. X.
Even when this is the case (i.e., the NP is used referentially rather thanattributively1), the notion of referring has its problems.
For example, the speaker maybe mistaken in her belief that Mr. X is the tenant of the house (Donnellan 1966).
Insuch cases it is unclear who is being referred to.
Such problems notwithstanding, workon coreference annotation has usually taken the notion of reference for granted, on theassumption that clear cases, where the referent of an NP is clearly defined, outnumberthe problematic ones, at least in some important ypes of discourse.Let us, for now, buy into the assumption that reference is a straightforward notion.Then, following Bach (1987) (especially Sections 3.2 and 12.2), for example, one thingthat is clear about reference is that some NPs do not refer.
When someone says(1) a.
No solution emerged from our discussions, orb.
Whenever a solution emerged, we embraced it,the solution NPs do not refer to any single solution, nor to any definite set of solutions.Most theorists would agree that they do not have a referent.
Nonreferring NPs canenter anaphoric relations.
(For example, the NP a solution is the (bound) anaphoricantecedent to it in (lb).)
But if they do not refer, the c0reference r lation as defined inSection i (which presupposes that Referent(olD and Referent(o~2) are defined) is not ap-plicable to them.
Even so, the MUC TD asks annotators to treat them as if it was appli-cable.
It acknowledges (page 10) that "one may argue that \[a bound anaphor and its an-tecedent\] are not coreferential in the usual sense," but falls short of explaining explicitlywhat types of anaphora re to be annotated and how (Hirschman and Chinchor 1997).
2The annotation of bound anaphora merits some further elaboration.
Consider, forexample, quantifying NPs such as Every TV network (or, even more problematic, Mostcomputational linguists \[Hirschman and Chinchor 1997\], see also Section 3).
If Every TVnetwork refers at all, then presumably it refers to the set of all TV networks (relevant to acertain domain).
The TD, however, asks annotators to let Every TV network corefer withits in (lc).
According to the definition of coreference, this means that Referent(EveryTV network) = Referent(its) so that Referent(its) is the set of all TV networks, predictingincorrectly that (lc) means (ld):(1) c. Every TV network reported its proyqtsc p. Every TV network reported every TV network's proyqts,1 See Donnellan (1966).
For an interesting class of attributively used NPs, see van der Sandt (1992);examples include hypotheticals like If this house has a tenant then the tenant isprobably Dutch, where onemight ask whether atenant and the tenant corefer.2 Sometimes the term "cospecification" has been employed to replace coreference (e.g.
Sidner 1983;Davies et al 1998).
It is unclear, however, whether abound anaphor and its antecedent cospecify, orhow the notion should be applied to intensional constructions (Section 2.2).631Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 4(Incidentally, coreference and anaphora re not only different; they are also extremelydifficult o combine into a proper equivalence r lationship that allows us to recognizedifferent clauses as being "about he same thing."
Consider, for example, the relation,say R, which holds between NP1 and NP2 if and only ifeither NP1 and NP2 corefer (in the sense of the definition in Section 1)or NP1 is an anaphoric antecedent of NP2or NP2 is an anaphoric antecedent of NP1Note that R is not an equivalence r lation.
The subject of (lc), for example, can coreferwith a plural pronoun in the next sentence, .g., (...) They are now required to do this,but They and it (in (lc)) do not stand in the relation R.)Predicative NPs are another category of NPs whose referentiality is problematicand yet the MUC TD instructs annotators to let them corefer with other NPs.
In (2a)and (2b), for example, the predicative NP the/a president off DD cannot be replacedby the proper name Higgins without changing the meaning of the sentence beyondrecognition, indicating that the relation between the two NPs must be something otherthan coreference:(2) a. Higgins was~became th /a president of DDb.
Higgins, once the president of DD, is now a humble university lecturerWe will have more to say about predicative NPs in the next section.To sum up, MUC's annotators have been instructed to let NPs of all major classes(definite, quantificational, nd indefinite) "corefer" liberally with other NPs, even whenit is far from clear that the NPs in question have been used referentially.
As a result,the relation actually annotated in MUC--henceforth called the IDENT relation, fol-lowing Hirschman and Chinchor (1997)--must be distinguished from the coreferencerelation.
The TD admits that certain instructions may be incompatible with the defini-tion of coreference but no reason is given for these incompatibilities and no intuitivemotivation for the relation IDENT is offered.
As a result, the annotator is left with along series of instructions that fail to be held together by a common rationale.Remedy.
Go back to basics: start from a definition of coreference and write a TD thatimplements he definition.
We suggest that it is not until this has been done success-fully that extensions into the area of bound anaphora become a risk worth taking.2.2 Problems of Intensionality and PredicationProblems posed to coreference annotation by intensionality (Hirschman et al 1997)have motivated considerable complications in the TD.
Consider Section 6.4, whichdiscusses the implications of "change over time."
The TD says that "two markablesshould be recorded as coreferential if the text asserts them to be coreferential tANYTIME" (Hirschman and Chinchor 1997, page 11).
Thus, for example, the TD points outthat in a case like(3) Henry Higgins, who was formerly sales director off Sudsy Soaps, became presidentof Dreamy Detergentsannotators are expected to mark (1) Henry Higgins, (2) sales director of Sudsy Soaps,and (3) president of Dreamy Detergents as coreferential.
(Similar strategies seem to be632van Deemter and Kibble On Coreferringadopted by most practitioners of coreference annotation, e.g., Cristea et al \[1999\]).
Butsince coreference is generally agreed to be a equivalence relation (e.g.
Hirschman andChinchor 1997, Section 1.3), this implies that the sales director of Sudsy Soaps and thepresident of Dreamy Detergents are the same person.
Clearly, this cannot be right.Luckily, there are other parts of the same TD that do a better job of applying thenotion of coreference to sentences involving change over time.
Consider, for example,Section 1.3, where the sentence the stock price fell from $4.02 to $3.85 is discussed.
Hereannotators are asked to consider the stock price as standing in the IDENT relation with$3.85 but not with $4.02, because $3.85 is "the more recent value" (p. 3).
(If bothcoreferred with the stock price, it would have followed that $4.02 and $3.85 are equal.
)This solution, however, is still problematic.
What, for instance, if the price continuesto fall?
(4) a.
The stock price fell from $4.02 to $3.85;b.
Later that day, it fell to an even lower value, at $3.82.Does the annotator have to go back to (4a), deciding that $3.82 is an even more recentvalue and the stock price does not stand in the IDENT relation with $3.85 after all?Remedy.
At least three different strategies are conceivable.
Perhaps most obviously,one might decide that coreference between a functional description like those in (3) or(4) and an NP denoting a value requires this value to be the present (rather than themost recent) value of the function.
But, the text does not always say what the presentvalue is.
Moreover, functional descriptions do not always pertain to the present.
InLast year, the president resigned, for example, the subject refers to last year's president, andconsequently, it does not corefer with NPs referring to the present president.
A secondstrategy, consistent with Dowty, Wall, and Peters (1981, Appendix iii) might be to saythat The stock price refers only to a Montague-type individual concept, that is, a functionfrom times to numbers.
It would follow that The stock price does not corefer with either$4.02 or $3.85 and no problem would arise.
Analogously, president of Dreamy Detergents,in (3) above, where it is used predicatively, might denote an individual concept ratherthan an individual.
If the next sentence goes on to say He died within a week, then heis coreferential with Henry Higgins; if, instead, the text proceeds This is an influentialposition, but the pay is lousy, then This is coreferential with president of Dreamy Detergents.If both these analyses prove to be too complex to be used in large-scale annotationexercises, one might have to take the point of view that such descriptions simply donot refer.
This would amount to a third strategy, which excludes these descriptionsfrom entering coreference r lations altogether and leaving their analysis to the othertasks.2.3 What's Markable?It has been proposed that annotation can profitably be broken down into two moremanageable steps: annotation of markables (step 1) is to be carried out before (step 2)partitioning the set of markables into equivalence classes of coreferring elements (e.g.,Hirschman and Chinchor 1997).
It turns out, however, that a strict distinction betweenthe two steps is difficult to maintain, because, in principle, almost anything is mark-able.
In the MUC-7 TD, this is sensibly acknowledged by letting annotators mark upcertain elements only if they corefer with an existing markable: these include conjunctsand prenominal modifiers.
In the following example, the first occurrence of aluminumis only considered to be markable because it corefers with the occurrence of this noun633Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 4as a bare NP in the second clause.
(5) The price of aluminum siding has steadily increased, as the market foraluminum reacts to the strike in Chile.
(Hirschman and Chinchor 1997)In other words: coreference (step 2) helps to determine what the markables are (step 1).Finding all the NPs that might participate in coreference becomes even harder if theannotation scheme is extended to cover event coreference (noted in the "wish list" inSection 1.4 of the TD) since it is often extremely difficult to determine which eventscan serve as antecedents (Hirschman and Chinchor 1997):(6) Be careful not to get the gel in your eyes.
If this happens, rinse your eyes withclean water and tell your doctor.
(ABPI, 1997)Examples of this kind suggest that one markable (e.g., an event) can give rise toanother (e.g., the negation of the event).
A complication of a similarly algebraic flavorarises if "discontinuous elements, including conjoined elements" are covered, as whena plural pronoun corefers with a combination ofpreviously occurring NPs (Hirschmanand Chinchor 1997, section 1.4; see Garside, Leech, and McEnery \[1997\] for a proposal).Note especially that annotators would have to be on guard for the possibility of differentcombinations of markables coreferring to each other.
A corpus, for example, can easilycontain NPs A,B,C, and D for which Referent(A) U Referent(B) = Referent(C) UReferent(D).
Even assuming that each of A, B, C, and D has been properly identifiedas a markable during step 1, this is little guarantee that annotators of step 2 will realizethe complex coreference r lation between the combination of A and B and that of Cand D. (Recall that coreference r lations are to be annotated even in the absence of ananaphoric relationship.)
The number of possible combinations of markables (some 2 nwhen there are n markables) will often be too large to handle.Remedy.
One alternative is to have a first pass where only referring expressions thatlook like anaphors are marked up, such as pronouns and definite NPs.
Subsequentpasses would look for antecedents for these expressions and link coreferring elements.An intermediate approach would be to mark up a core set of referring expressions onthe first pass, allowing for further eferring expressions to be identified on subsequentpasses if this is necessary to resolve coreference.
The extent o which each strategywould contribute to accuracy and speed of annotation remains to be determined.3.
Conclus ionCurrent "coreference" annotation practice, as exemplified by MUC, has overextendeditself, mixing elements of genuine coreference with elements of anaphora nd predica-tion in unclear and sometimes contradictory ways.
As a result, the annotated corpusemerging from MUC is unlikely to be as useful for the computational linguistics re-search community as one might hope (Criterion 4, see Section 1), the more so becausegeneralization to other domains is bound to make problems worse.
In many domains,for example, other sources of intensionality han change over time occur prominently.An example is epistemic modality:(7) Henry Higgins might be the man you have talked to.634van Deemter and Kibble On CoreferringThe relation between Henry Higgins and the man you have talked to is analogous to thatbetween Henry Higgins and sales director of Sudsy Soaps in (3), with possible worldstaking the place of points in time: the two NPs refer to the same individual in somepossible worlds only (see Groenendijk, StokhoL and Veltman \[1996\] for relevant theo-retical work).
Modality, of course, interacts with tense (as in Henry Higgins might becomethe president of Dreamy Detergents), leading to further complications.The MUC TD has addressed many of the difficult problems in the area of referenceand coreference, but if its success is judged by the criteria in Hirschman and Chinchor(1997) (see Introduction), the results are mixed at best.
Criterion 4 has been discussedabove.
Concerning Criterion 3, it appears doubtful that the present task definition canbe applied "quickly and cheaply."
Hirschman et al (1997), when discussing this issue,note that interannotator agreement, at the time of writing, was in the low eighties.This figure, which falls markedly short of the 95% required by Criterion 2, does notseem to have improved substantially since (Breck Baldwin, personal communication).Concerning Criterion 1, finally, it has been observed that the figures for recall in theMUC information extraction algorithm are rather discouraging (Appelt 1998).
Thematerial in Section 2 suggests that this relative lack of success is no accident and thatunclarities in the TD are to blame.
Repairs are not always easy to find.
Given thissituation, we suggest that a rethinking of the coreference task is required.Firstly, one needs a consistent story of what reference and coreference are takento be.
Theoretical work on reference does not show a consensus on some crucial ques-tions in this area (Bach 1987; Kronfeld and Roberts 1998).
Different answers have beensuggested, each with its own advantages and disadvantages.
For example, one mightidentify the notion of a referring NP with that of a semantically definite NP in the senseof Barwise and Cooper (1981).
3This would include proper names, extensional definitedescriptions, universally quantified NPs, and specifically used indefinites (e.g., a com-pany whose name is withheld), but it would exclude nonspecifically used indefinites suchas at least n companies, most computational linguists.
A more liberal approach along thelines of Kamp and Reyle (1993, Chapter 4), would predict hat a quantifying NP suchas the subject of Most computational linguists use a parser refers to the set of those com-putational linguists who use a parser: the VP helps to determine the referent of the NP.The first approach would make annotation easier to perform and the results would belikely to be more reliable as a result, but it would feed less information i to the infor-mation extraction task.
Trade-offs of this kind are unavoidable, and experimentationwill be required to determine which option provides the best results.Secondly, we suggest a further division of labor whereby those phenomena thatare no longer accounted for in the new TD are covered by other tasks (Kibble andvan Deemter 2000).
For example, the two NPs Henry Higgins and president of SudsySoaps (example (3)) do not corefer, and the relation between them should be irrelevantto coreference annotation.
If it is imperative that information about Henry's previousjobs be saved for posterity then some other annotation task has to be defined, withits own very different TD, involving the notion of individuals having properties atcertain times or intervals only.
Something analogous is true for the annotation ofbound anaphora.The issue under discussion illustrates a more general point.
It is now widelyagreed that linguistic theorizing is sometimes insufficiently informed by observationaldata.
Conversely, we would like to submit that corpus-based research is sometimes3 A semantically definite NP c~ is one whose set-theoretic denotation takes the form of a principal filter(Partee, ter Meulen, and Wall 1990), i.e., a set of the form {X: Y C X} for some set of individuals Y.635Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 4insufficiently informed by theory.
It follows, in our opinion, that there is scope formore collaboration between theoretical and corpus-based linguists in this area.
Thissquib attempts to be a small step in this direction.AcknowledgmentsThe authors wish to thank Christy Doran,Renate Henschel, Adam Kilgarriff, PaulPiwek, Massimo Poesio, Richard Power, andfour anonymous referees for theircomments on an earlier draft of this paper.We are grateful to Lynette Hirschman andBreck Baldwin for their very constructiveresponses to a predecessor f this paper(van Deemter and Kibble 1999).
Kibble'swork on this paper was funded by the UK'sEPSRC as part of the GNOME (GR/L51126)and RAGS (GR/L77102) projects.ReferencesABPI.
1997.
1996-1997 ABPI Compendium ofPatient Information Leaflets.
Association ofthe British Pharmaceutical Industry.Appelt, Douglas.
1998.
An overview ofinformation extraction technology and itsapplication to information retrieval.
InProceedings ofTWLT14, Language Technologyin Multimedia Information Retrieval,pages 49-58, Twente.Bach, Kent.
1987.
Thought and Reference.Clarendon Press, Oxford.Bagga, Amit, Breck Baldwin, and SaraShelton.
1998.
Coreference and itsapplications.
Call for papers for workshopassociated with the 37th Annual Meetingof the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, University of Maryland, 1999.See www.cs.duke.edu/,-~amit / acc99-wkshp.html.Barwise, Jon and Robin Cooper.
1981.Generalized quantifiers and naturallanguage.
Linguistics and Philosophy,4:159-219.Cristea, Dan, Nancy Ide, Daniel Marcu, andValentin Tablan.
1999.
Discourse structureand coreference: An empirical study.
InDan Cristea, Nancy Ide, and DanielMarcu, editors, Proceedings ofACL'99 Ws:The Relation of Discourse~Dialogue Structureand Reference, pages 46-53.Davies, Sarah, Massimo Poesio, FlorenceBruneseaux, and Laurent Romary.
1998.Annotating coreference in dialogues:Proposal for a scheme for MATE.
Seewww.cogsci.ed.ac.uk/~poesio/MATE/anno-manual.html.Donnellan, Keith.
1966.
Reference anddefinite descriptions.
Philosophical Review,75:281-304.Dowty, David, Robert Wall, and StanleyPeters.
1981.
Introduction to MontagueSemantics.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Gamut, L. T. F. 1991.
Logic, Language andMeaning, Volume 2.
University of ChicagoPress, Chicago.Garside, Roger, Geoffrey Leech, and TonyMcEnery.
1997.
Corpus Annotation.Longman, London.Groenendijk, Jeroen, Martin Stokhof, andFrank Veltman.
1996.
Coreference andmodality.
In Shalom Lappin, editor, TheHandbook of Contemporary Semantic Theory.Blackwell, Cambridge, MA, pages179-214.Hirschman, Lynette and Nancy Chinchor.1997.
MUC-7 coreference task definition.In MUC-7 Proceedings.
ScienceApplications International Corporation.See www.muc.saic.com.Hirschman, Lynette, Patricia Robinson, JohnBurger, and Marc Vilain.
1997.Automating coreference: The role ofannotated training data.
In Proceedings ofAAAI Spring Symposium on ApplyingMachine Learning to Discourse Processing.Kamp, Hans and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
FromDiscourse to Logic.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Kibble, Rodger and Kees van Deemter.
2000.Coreference annotation: Whither?
InMaria Gavrilidou et al, editors,Proceedings ofthe 2nd InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation, pages 1,281-1,286, Athens.Kronfeld, Ami and Lawrence Roberts.
1998.Special Issue on Reference, Pragmatics andCognition 6.
John Benjamins, Amsterdamand Philadelphia.Partee, Barbara.
1989.
Binding implicitvariables in quantified contexts.Proceedings ofthe Chicago Linguistic Society,25:342-365.Partee, Barbara, Alice ter Meulen, andRobert Wall.
1990.
Mathematical Methods inLinguistics.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.Passoneau, Rebecca.
1997.
Instructions forapplying discourse reference annotationfor multiple applications (DRAMA).Unpublished manuscript.Poesio, Massimo.
2000.
Annotating a corpusto develop and evaluate discourse ntityrealization algorithms: Issues andpreliminary results.
In Maria Gavrilidouet al, editors, Proceedings ofthe 2ndInternational Conference on Language636van Deemter and Kibble On CoreferringResources and Evaluations, pages 211-218,Athens.Popescu-Belis, Andrei.
1998.
How corporawith annotated coreference links improvereference resolution.
In Antonio Rubio etal., editors, First International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation,pages 567-572, Granada.
EuropeanLanguage Resources Association.Sidner, Candace.
1979.
Towardsa Computational Theory ofDeJinite AnaphoraComprehension in English Discourse.
Ph.D.dissertation, AI Lab, MIT, Cambridge, MA.Sidner, Candace.
1983.
Focusing in thecomprehension f definite anaphora.
InMichael Brady and Robert Berwick,editors, Computational Models of Discourse.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA,pages 267-330.van Deemter, Kees.
1992.
Towards ageneralization of anaphora.
Journal ofSemantics, 9:27-51.van Deemter, Kees and Rodger Kibble.
1999.What is coreference and what shouldcoreference annotation be?
In AmitBagga, Breck Baldwin, and Sara Shelton,editors, Proceedings ofACL workshop onCoreference and Its Applications,pages 90-96, Maryland.van der Sandt, Rob.
1992.
Presuppositionprojection as anaphora resolution.
Journalof Semantics, 9:333-37.637
