A Model for Mult imodal ReferenceResolutionLuis Pineda*National Autonomous University ofMexico (UNAM)Gabriela GarzaAn important aspect of the interpretation of multimodal messages i the ability to identify whenthe same object in the world is the referent of symbols in different modalities.
To understand thecaption of a picture, for instance, one needs to identify the graphical symbols that are referred toby names and pronouns in the natural anguage text.
One way to think of this problem is in termsof the notion of anaphora; however, unlike linguistic anaphoric inference, in which antecedentsfor pronouns are selected from a linguistic context, in the interpretation of the textual part ofmultimodal messages the antecedents are selected from a graphical context.
Under this view,resolving multimodal references i  like resolving anaphora across modalities.
Another way tosee the same problem is to look at pronouns in texts about drawings as deictic.
In this secondview, the context of interpretation of a natural anguage term is defined as a set of expressions ofa graphical language with well-defined syntax and semantics.
Natural language and graphicalterms are thought of as standing in a relation of translation similar to the translation relation thatholds between atural anguages.
In this paper a theory based on this second view is presented.
Inthis theory, the relations between multimodal representation a d spatial deixis, on the one hand,and multimodal reasoning and deictic inference, on the other, are discussed.
An integrated modelof anaphoric and deictic resolution in the context of the interpretation of multimodal discourse isalso advanced.1.
Reference, Spatial Deixis, and ModalityIn this paper a model for the resolution of multimodal references i presented.
Thisis the problem of finding the referent of a symbol in one modality using informationpresent either in the same or in other modalities.
A model of this kind can be usefulboth for implementing intelligent multimodal tools (e.g., authoring tools to input nat-ural language and graphics interactively for the automatic onstruction of tutorials ormanuals) and from the point of view of human-computer interaction (HCI) where itcan help in the design of computer interfaces in which the interpretation constraintsof multimodal messages should be taken into account.Consider Figure 1 (adapted from Rist \[1996\]) in which a message is expressedthrough two different modalities, namely text and graphics.
The figure illustrates akind of reasoning required to understand multimodal presentations: in order to makesense of the message, the interpreter must realize what individuals are referred to bythe pronouns he and it in the text.
For the sake of argument, it is assumed that thegraphical symbols in the figure are understood directly in terms of a graphical lexicon,in the same way that the words he, it, and washed are understood in terms of the textual?
Department of Computer Science, Institute for Applied Mathematics and Systems (IIMAS), NationalAutonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), Mexico.
E-mail: luis@leibniz.iimas.unam.mx.
@ 2000 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2I?c"He washed it"Figure 1Instance of linguistic anaphor with pictorial antecedent.
"Saarbrficken lies at the intersection between the border betweenFrance and Germany and a line from Paris to FrankJhrt.
"Figure 2Instance of a pictorial anaphor with linguistic antecedent.lexicon.
It can easily be seen that given the graphical context, he should resolve to theman, and it should resolve to the car.
However, this inference is not valid since theinformation inferred is not contained in the overt graphical context and the meaningof the words involved.One way to look at this problem is as a case of anaphoric inference.
Considerthat the information provided by graphical means can also be expressed through thefollowing piece of discourse: There is a man, a car, and a bucket.
He washed it.
With Kamp'sdiscourse representation theory (DRT) (Kamp 1981; Kamp and Reyle 1993) a discourserepresentation structure (DRS) in which the reference to the pronoun he is constrainedto be the man can be built.
However, the pronoun it has two possible antecedents,and conceptual knowledge is required to select the appropriate one.
In particular,the knowledge that a man can wash objects with water, and that water is carried inbuckets, must be employed.
If these concepts are included in the interpretation contextlike DRT conditions (which should be retrieved from memory rather than from thenormal flow of discourse), the anaphora can be solved.
By analogy, situations like theone illustrated in Figure 1 have been considered problems of anaphors with pictorialantecedents in which the interpretation context is built not from a preceding text butfrom a graphical representation that is introduced with the text (Andr6 and Rist 1994).Consider now the converse situation shown in Figure 2 (adapted from Rist \[1996\]),in which a drawing is interpreted as a map in the context of the preceding text.
Thedots and lines in the drawing, and their properties, do not have an interpretationand the picture in itself is meaningless.
However, given the context introduced by thetext, and also considering the common knowledge that Paris is a city in France, andFrankfurt a city in Germany, and that Germany lies to the east of France (to the right),140Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutionit is possible to infer that the denotations of the dots to the left, middle, and rightin the picture are Paris, Saarbr~.icken, and Frankfurt, respectively, and that the dottedlines denote borders between countries, and in particular, the lower segment denotesthe border between France and Germany.
In this example, graphical symbols can bethought of as "variables" of the graphical representation r "graphical pronouns" thatcan be resolved in terms of the textual antecedent.
Here again, the inference is notvalid, as the graphical symbols could be given other interpretations or none at all.The situation in Figure 2 has been characterized as an instance of a pictorialanaphor with linguistic antecedent, and further related examples can be found inAndr6 and Rist (1994).
This situation, however, cannot be modeled very easily interms of Kamp's DRT because the "pronouns" are not linguistic objects, and lackinga proper formalization of the graphical information, there is no straightforward wayto express in a discourse representation structure that a dot representing "a variable"in the graphical domain has the same denotation as a natural anguage name or de-scription introduced from text in a DRS.
Furthermore, the situation in Figure 1 can bethought of as anaphoric only if we ignore the modality of the graphics, as was doneabove; but if the notion of modality is to be considered at all in the analysis, thenthe situation in Figure 1 poses the same kinds of problems as the one in Figure 2.
Ingeneral, graphical objects, functioning as constant terms or as variables, introduced asantecedents or as pronouns, cannot be expressed in a DRS, since the rules constructingthese structures are triggered by specific syntactic onfigurations of the natural an-guage in which the information is expressed.
However, this limitation can be overcomeif graphical information can be expressed in a language with well-defined syntax andsemantics.An alternative is to look at these kinds of problems in terms of the traditionallinguistic notion of deixis (Lyons 1968).
Deixis has to do with the orientational fea-tures of language, which are relative to the spatio-temporal situation of an utterance.Under this view, and in connection with the notion of graphical anaphora discussedabove, it is possible to mention the deictic category of demonstrative pronouns: wordslike this and that permit us to make reference to extralinguistic objects.
In Figure 1,for instance, the pronouns he and it can be supported by overt pointing acts at thetime the expression he washed it is uttered.
Note that the purpose of the pointing actis to provide the referents for the pronouns directly, greatly simplifying the resolu-tion process.
However, the deictic use of a pronoun does not necessarily have to besupported by a physical gesture, because deictic use is characterized, more generally,by the identification of the referent in a metalinguistic context.
Ambiguity in suchwords is not unusual, as they can also function as anaphors if they are preceded bya linguistic context, and even as determiners with a deictic component (e.g., this car).Additionally, not only demonstratives and pronouns but also proper names, definitedescriptions, and even indefinites can be used deictically.
As a great variety of con-textual factors are conceivably involved in the interpretation of a deictic expression,gestures, although prominent, should be thought of only as one particular kind ofcontextual factor.
In summary, the denotation of a deictic term is the individual thatis picked out by the human interpreter in relation to the interpretation context.
1 Con-sider that in the same way that an anaphoric inference is required for identifying theantecedent of an anaphoric term, an inference process is required for interpreting aterm used deictically.
We refer to this process as a deictic inference.
The inference by1 An operator called DTHAT for mapping deictic terms into their referents inan interpretation context isintroduced inKaplan's logic of demonstratives (Kaplan 1978).141Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2which one determines that he and it are the man and the car is, accordingly, a deicticinference.For our purposes, it is important to investigate the nature of the relation betweenthe notions of deixis and modality, on the one hand, and multimodal reasoning andinference, either deictic or anaphoric, on the other.
According to Kamp (1981, 283), thedifference between deictic and anaphoric pronouns is that,deictic and anaphoric pronouns elect heir referents from certain setsof antecedently available ntities.
The two pronoun's uses differ withregard to the nature of these sets.
In the case of a deictic pronounthe set contains entities that belong to the real world, whereas theselection set for an anaphoric pronoun is made up of constituents ofthe representation that has been constructed in response to antecedentdiscourse.Our concern here is how "the set of entities that belong to the real world" is ac-cessible to the interpreter.
In normal deictic spatial situations the referent of a deicticterm is perceived irectly through the visual modality, and as a result of such a vi-sual interpretation process, the object is represented by the subject.
The question ishow the information can be expressed in this intermediate "visual" representation.
Aplausible answer is that there is a coding system and a medium associated with eachparticular modality.
Our suggestion is that the notion of modality is a representationalnotion, and not a sensory one as normally assumed in psychological discussion.
Inour sense, a modality is a formal language, with a lexicon and well-defined syntac-tic and semantic structures, with an associated medium in which the expressions ofthe modality are written.
Multimodal reasoning is a process involving informationexpressed in the languages associated with different modalities, and is achieved withthe help of a translation relation similar to the relation of translation between aturallanguages.
Performing a multimodal reasoning process is possible if the translationrelation between expressions ofdifferent modalities i available.
However, for particu-lar multimodal reasoning tasks, the translation relation between individual constantsof different modalities cannot be stated beforehand and has to be worked out dy-namically through a deictic inferential process, as will be argued in the rest of thispaper.1.1 A Model for Multimodal RepresentationThis view of multimodal representation a d reasoning can be formalized in terms ofMontague's general semiotic program (Dowty, Wall, and Peters 1985).
Each modalityin the system can be captured through a particular language, and relations betweenexpressions of different modalities can be modeled in terms of translation functionsfrom basic and composite xpressions of the source modality into expressions of thetarget modality.
In a system of this kind, interpreting examples in Figures 1 and 2in relation to the linguistic modality is a matter of interpreting the information ex-pressed through natural language directly when enough information is available, andcompleting the interpretation process by means of translating expressions ofthe graph-ical modality into the linguistic one, and vice versa.
Consider Figure 3--developingfrom previous work (Pineda 1989, 1998; Klein and Pineda 1990; Santana 1999)--inwhich a multimodal representational system for linguistic and graphical modalities iillustrated.The circles labeled L and G in Figure 3 stand for sets of expressions of the naturallanguage (e.g., English) and the graphical language, respectively, and the circle labeled142Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference ResolutionFLL WFigure 3Multimodal representational system for linguistic and graphical modalities.P stands for the set of graphical symbols constituting the graphical modality proper(i.e., the actual symbols on a piece of paper or on the screen).
Note that two sets ofexpressions are considered for the graphical modality: the expressions in G belongto a formal language in which the geometry of pictures is represented and reasonedabout, and P contains the overt graphical symbols that can be seen and drawn butcannot be manipulated irectly.
The functions PL-G and PC-L stand for the translationmappings between the languages L and G, and the functions PP-c and Pc-P standfor the corresponding translations between G and P. The translation function pP-cmaps well-defined objects of the graphical modality into expressions of G where theinterpretation process is performed.
The translation Pc-P, on the other hand, mapsgeometrical expressions of G into pictures; for every well-defined term of G of agraphical type (e.g., dot, line, etc.)
there is a graphical object or a graphical composi-tion that can be drawn or highlighted with the application of geometrical lgorithmsassociated to operators of G in a systematic fashion.
The circle labeled W stands forthe world and together with the functions FL and Fp constitutes a multimodal systemof interpretation.
The ordered pair (W, FL) defines the model ML for the natural an-guage, and the ordered pair (W, Fp) defines the model Mp for the interpretation ofdrawings.
The interpretation of expressions in G in relation to the world is definedeither by the composition FL?pc_L or, alternatively, by Fp?pG_p.
The denotation of theword France in L, for instance, is the same as the denotation of the correspondingregion of the map of Europe that denotes France, the country, since both refer to thesame individual.
The denotation of the symbol rl in G that is related to the wordFrance in L through PG-L, and to a particular egion in P through pG-P, is also France,as translation is a meaning-preserving relation between expressions.
The interpreta-tion functions FL and Fp relate basic expressions, either graphical or linguistic, to theobjects or relations of the world that these expressions happen to represent, and thedefinition of a semantic algebra for computing the denotation of composite graphicaland linguistic expressions i required.An important consideration for the scheme in Figure 3 is that the symbols of Phave two roles: on the one hand, they are representational objects (e.g., a region of143Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2the drawing represents a country), but on the other, they are also geometrical ob-jects that can be talked about as geometrical entities.
The geometrical region of themap representing France, for instance, is itself represented by the constant rl in G. Inthis second view, geometrical entities are individual objects in the world of geometry,and as such they have a number of geometrical properties that are independent ofwhether we think of graphical symbols as objects in themselves or as symbols rep-resenting something else.
The same duality can be stated from the point of view ofthe expressions of G, since the set of individual geometrical objects (i.e., P) constitutesa domain of interpretation for the language G. This is to say that expressions of Ghave two interpretations: they represent geometrical objects, properties, and relationsdirectly, but they also represent the objects of the world (e.g., France, Germany, etc.
)indirectly through the translation relation and interpretation of symbols in P taken asa language (i.e., the composition Fp?pG_p).
The ordered pair (P, Fc/defines the modelMc for the geometrical interpretation of G as geometrical objects; the geometrical in-terpretation function FG assigns a denotation for every constant of G; the denotationof individual constants of G are the graphical symbols themselves, and the denotationof operators and function symbols of G denoting graphical properties and relationswill be given by predefined geometrical lgorithms commonly used in computationalgeometry and computer graphics--see, for instance, Shamos (1978).
The semantic in-terpretation of composite xpressions of G, on the other hand, is defined through asemantic algebra, as will be shown below in Section 2.3.2.
The definition of this ge-ometrical interpreter will allow us to perform inferences about the geometry of thedrawing in a very effective fashion.
Consider that to state explicitly all true and falsegeometrical statements about a drawing would be a very cumbersome task, as thenumber of statements that would have to be made even for small drawings wouldbe very large.
Note also that although a map can be an incomplete representationof the world (e.g., some cities might have been omitted), the geometrical algorithmsassociated with operators of G will always provide complete information on the mapas a geometrical object.1.2 Multimodal interpretationFor the kind of problem exemplified in Figures 1 and 2, the objects in L, P, and Gare given, and the function FL establishes the relation between linguistic constantsand the objects of the world that such constants happen to refer to.
To interpret hesemultimodal messages, Fp must be made explicit.
If one asks who is he?
looking atFigure 1, for instance, the answer is found by computing pG-p(pL-G(he)), whose valueis the picture of the man on the drawing.
Once this computation is performed, thepicture can be highlighted or signaled by other graphical means.
However, in otherkinds of situations the knowledge of Fp might be available and the purpose of theinterpretation process could be to identify Ft.
If one points out the middle dot inFigure 2 at the time the question what is this?
is asked, the answer can be foundby applying the function PG_L?PP_G to the dot indicated (i.e., PG_L(PP_G(O))), whosevalue would be the word Saarbriicken.
A similar situation arises in the interpretation ofmultimodal referring expressions.
Consider the following example--also from Andrdand Rist (1994)--in which a multimodal message is constituted by a picture of anespresso machine that has two switches, and by the textual expression the temperaturecontrol.
In this scenario, the denotation of the natural language expression can befound by the human interpreter if the corresponding switch is identified in the picturethrough visual inspection (e.g., if the switch is highlighted).
In general, multimodalcoreference can be established if pL-G and PG-L are defined, as Fp can be made explicitin terms of FL and vice versa.144Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference ResolutionIn situations in which all theoretical elements illustrated in Figure 3 are given,questions about multimodal scenarios can be answered through the evaluation of ex-pressions of a given modality in terms of the interpreters of the languages involvedand the translation functions.
However, when one is instructed to interpret a multi-modal message, like Figures 1 and 2, not all information in the scheme of Figure 3 isavailable.
In particular, the translation functions PL-G and PG-L of the graphical andlinguistic individual constants mentioned in the texts and the pictures of the multi-modal messages are not known, and the crucial inference of the interpretation processhas as its goal to find out the definition of these functions (i.e., to establish the rela-tions between ames of L and G).
It is important o emphasize that in order to findout PL-G and PC-L, the information overtly provided in the multimodal message isusually not enough, and in order to carry out such an interpretation process it will benecessary to consider the grammatical structure of the languages involved, the defi-nition of translations rules between languages, and also conceptual knowledge storedin memory about the interpretation domain.An additional consideration regarding the scheme in Figure 3 is related to theproblem of ambiguity in the interpretation of multimodal messages.
In the literatureof intelligent multimodal systems, ambiguity is commonly seen from the perspective ofhuman users.
A multimodal referring expression constituted by the text the temperaturecontrol and a drawing with two switches is said to be ambiguous, for instance, if thehuman user is not able to tell which one is the temperature control.
A well-designedpresentation should avoid this kind of ambiguity by providing additional informationeither in a textual form (e.g., the temperature control is the switch on the left) orby a graphical focusing technique (e.g., highlighting the left switch).
An importantmotivation in the design of intelligent presentation systems like WIP (Wahlster et al1993) and COMET (Feiner and McKeown 1993) is to generate graphical and linguisticexplanations in which these kinds of ambiguities are avoided.
2 Note, however, thatsuch situations are better characterized as problems of underspecification, rather thanas problems of ambiguity, since the expression the temperature control has only onesyntactic structure and one meaning, and the referent can be identified in a givencontext if enough information is available.Ambiguity in multimodal systems has also been related to the granularity ofgraphical pointing acts.
A map, for instance, can be represented by an expressionof G that translates into a graphical composition in P denoting a single individual(e.g., Europe) or by a number of expressions of G that refer to the minimal graphicalpartitions in P (e.g., the countries of Europe) depending on whether the focus of theinterpretation process is the whole of the drawing or its constituent parts.
This prob-lem has also been addressed in a number of intelligent multimodal systems like XTRA(Wahlster 1991) and AlFresco (Stock et al 1993), but the lack of a formalized notionof graphical language (and also a better understanding of indexical expressions), hasprevented a deeper analysis of this kind of ambiguity.These notions of "ambiguity" in multimodal systems contrast with the traditionalnotion of ambiguity in natural anguage in which an ambiguous expression has sev-eral interpretations.
The formalization of graphical representations through the def-inition of graphical anguages with well-defined syntax and semantics allows us toface the problem of ambiguity directly in terms of the relation of translation betweennatural and graphical anguages, and the semantics of expressions of both modal-2 It is also worth noticing that systems like WIP and COMET do not interpret multimodal messagesinput by human users through the interaction and, therefore, there is no ambiguity to be resolved.145Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2ities.
An interesting question is whether the graphical context offers clues that theparser can use to resolve lexical and structural ambiguity.
Although we have yet toexplore this issue, there are some antecedents in this regard.
In Steedman's theoryof incremental interpretation i  dialogue, for instance, the rules of syntax, seman-tics, and processing are very closely linked (Steedman 1986) and local ambiguitiesmay be resolved by taking into account heir appropriateness to the context, whichcan be graphical.
Structural ambiguity in G can be appreciated, for instance, in rela-tion to the granularity of graphical objects, as the same drawing will have differentsyntactic analysis depending on whether it is interpreted as a whole or as an aggre-gation of parts.
It is likely that the resolution of this latter kind of ambiguity is alsoinfluenced by pragmatic factors concerning the purpose of the task, the interpreta-tion domain, and the attentional state of the interpreter, but this investigation is alsopending.We do, however, address issues of ambiguity related to the resolution of spa-tial indexical terms and anaphoric references in an integrated fashion.
In Section3, an incremental constraint satisfaction algorithm for resolving referential terms inrelation to the graphical domain is presented.
This algorithm relies on spatial con-straints of drawings and general knowledge about the interpretation domain, andits computation is performed uring the construction of mult imodal discourse rep-resentation structures (MDRSs), which are extensions of DRSs in DRT (Kamp andReyle 1993) as illustrated in Section 4.
In the same way that DRT makes no pro-vision for ambiguity resolution and alternative DRSs are constructed for differentreadings of a sentence, several MDRSs would have to be constructed in our ap-proach for ambiguous multimodal messages.
3 However, as natural language termsin L in our simplified domain refer to graphical objects, indefinites are very un-likely to have specific readings (e.g, "a city" normally refers to any city) and a sim-ple heuristic in which indefinites are within the scope of definite descriptions andproper names can be used to obtain the preferred reading of sentences uch as theone in Figures 2.
Nevertheless, even if only this reading is considered, and the in-terpreter knows that the drawing is a map and is aware of the interpretation con-ventions of this kind of graphical representations (i.e., countries are represented byregions, cities by dots, etc.
), drawings can still be ambiguous.
In Figure 2, for instance,there are four possible interpretations for the graphical symbols that are consistentwith the text if no knowledge of the geography of Europe is assumed.
Our algo-r ithm is designed to resolve reference for spatial referential and anaphoric terms inthe course of the multimodal discourse interpretation, and the graphical ambiguityis resolved in the course of this process, as will be shown in detail in Sections 3and 4.To conclude this section, we believe the formalization of the syntax and seman-tics of graphical representations in a form compatible with the syntax and semanticsof natural language, as in the scheme in Figure 3, may be a point of departure forinvestigating how the graphical or visual context helps to resolve natural languageambiguities at different levels of representation a d processing.3 A question for further esearch iswhether our approach can be generalized toaddress problems ofambiguity by means of underspecified representations (e.g., van Deemter and Peters 1995).
Theserepresentations re ult from the lexical and syntactic disambiguation process, but leave unspecified someinformation, like the interpretation f indexical references, the resolution of anaphoric expressions andthe semantic scope of operators.
A relevant antecedent related to our extension of multimodal DRSs isPoesio's extension ofDRT into the so-called Conversational Representation Theory (Poesio 1994).146Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolution1.3 Multimodal GenerationAn important motivation for the study of the interpretation of multimodal mes-sages is the definition of multimodal presentation or explanation systems in whichusers are able to identify the referent of graphical and linguistic expressions eas-ily.
In WIP, for instance, a central concern is whether the human user is able to"activate" the relevant "representations" (presumably in his or her mind) and re-solve the graphical and linguistic ambiguities and anaphors (using WIP's terminol-ogy) present in multimodal messages.
This is possible, in general, if the messageconveys to the human user explicit interpretation paths from the information thatis available overfly to the information that the user is expected to infer.
The pro-duction of multimodal referring expressions in this kind of system depends on theuse of presentation strategies defined in terms of rhetorical structures and intentionalgoals--e.g., along the lines of Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) (Mann and Thomp-son 1988), and its computational implementation (Moore 1995).
The use of a partic-ular presentation strategy in a multimodal explanation (e.g., in WIP) depends cru-cially on whether the expressions generated on the basis of such a strategy satisfythe conditions defined to activate the expected representations in the user's mind(an intentional goal).
Furthermore, some rhetorical structures are designed explic-itly to provide additional information to activate the expected representations if theconditions for the identification of the referent of an expression are not met.
Con-sider again the resolution of the "ambiguity" in the interpretation of the tempera-ture control example in WIP in which the presentation strategy provides the infor-mation required by the human user to identify the referent, either through the textthe temperature control is the switch on the left or highlighting or pointing to the corre-sponding switch in the drawing.
WIP is able to tell whether the presentation wouldbe ambiguous for the human user if additional information were not provided be-cause it has a representation f the actual situation and a simple model of the user'sbeliefs.Although the main representation structure of multimodal presentation and expla-nation systems is defined at a rhetorical level, the use of presentation strategies relieson algorithms for the generation of graphical and linguistic referring expressions.
Forinstance, the "activate" presentation strategy of WIP (Andr6 and Rist 1994), the pur-pose of which is to establish a mutual belief between the human user and the systemabout the identity of an object, employs an algorithm for the generation of referringexpressions based on an incremental interpretation algorithm proposed by Reiter andDale (1992).
It is interesting to note that presentations generated by WIP and othermultimodal explanation systems like COMET (Feiner and McKeown 1993), or TEX-PLAN (Maybury 1993), are limited to the production of definite descriptions only,even though the use of indefinite descriptions can be natural in multimodal commu-nication.
However, this restriction can be overcome with a more solid representationalframework such as the one illustrated in Figure 3.
Consider that basic or compositeexpressions of the languages G and L can be translated to basic or composite xpres-sions of the other language, depending on the definition of the translation function.So, to refer linguistically to a graphical configuration, for instance, it would only benecessary to find an expression of G that succinctly expresses the relevant graphicalproperties of the desired object, and then translate it to its corresponding expressionin L. The resulting natural anguage xpression could be used directly or embeddedin a larger natural anguage xpression containing words that refer to abstract objectsor properties.
The descriptions obtained through this strategy explicitly employ theconcrete and graphical properties of the representation, since expressions of G are147Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2r4.... c6 ....... .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
, .
.rl!
c3.!
r2C d'........................... (, r3 '..,c2 Ii ~dl ( clFigure 4Labeling the graphical objects in Figure ~.made up of constants and operators that directly describe the geometry of objects andconfigurations.Consider the natural language text: Saarbr~cken lies at the intersection between the bor-der between France and Germany and a line from Paris to Frankfurt.
This sentence containsthe definite description the intersection between tile border between France and Germanyand a line from Paris to Frankfurt, which in turn contains the border between France andGermany and a line from Paris to Frankfurt.
Finding the graphical referents of these ex-pressions requires the identification of a dot, a curve, and a line on the map (i.e., thecorresponding graphical objects).
These graphical objects can be referred to directlythrough language; however, there are additional graphical entities on the map in Fig-ure 2 that have an interpretation but are not mentioned explicitly in the text of themultimodal message.
In Figure 4, for instance, Belgium is represented by the regionr4, and the curve c6 represents he border between France and Belgium.
Once a picturehas been interpreted, one would be entitled to ask not only for graphical objects thathave been mentioned in the textual part of the message, but also for any meaningfulgraphical object.
So, if one points to the curve c6 in Figure 2 at the time the questionWhat is this?
is asked, the answer could be the border between France and Belgium, oralternatively, the indefinite aborder.
As some graphical objects named by constants ofthe graphical language do not have a proper name in natural language, the translationfunction PG-L must associate a basic constant of G with a composite xpression of L.The process of Inducing such a translation function is closely related to the process ofgenerating the corresponding natural language descriptions, and this relation will beexplored further in Section 3.In the rest of this paper, we discuss in more detail how the scheme for multi-modal representation a d interpretation i  Figure 3 can be carried out.
In Section 2,we present a formalization of the languages L, P, and G with their correspondingtranslation functions, along the lines of Montague's general semiotic program.
Theprocess of multimodal interpretation is explained, and the translation of expressionsof one modality into expressions of another modality is illustrated.
However, sucha process can be carried out only if the translation functions are known, which isnot normally the case in the interpretation f multimodal messages (as noted above).In Section 3, we offer an account of how such functions can be induced in termsof the message, constraints on the interpretation conventions of the modalities, andconstraints on general knowledge of the domain.
In this section we also illustratethe process of generating raphical and linguistic descriptions, which is associatedwith the induction of the translation functions.
In Section 4, we discuss how to ex-148Pineda and Garza Multirnodal Reference Resolutiontend Kamp's DRS with multimodal structures.
Finally, in Section 5, some concludingremarks and some directions for further work are presented.2.
A Multimodal System of RepresentationIn this section, we present he definition of the syntax and semantics of languages L,P, and G, illustrating the theory with the multimodal message of Figure 2.
Language Lis a segment of English designed to produce xpressions useful for referring to objects,properties, and relations commonly found in discourse about maps.
In particular, thenatural language xpression of Figure 2 can be constructed in a compositional fashion.The syntactic structure of P, on the other hand, imposes a restriction on the possiblegeometries of the family of drawings in the interpretation domain.
Language G is alogical language in which interpretation a d reasoning about geometrical configura-tions can be carried out.
It is an interlingua representation for information expressedin both of the modalities.The definitions of L, P, and G closely follow the general guidelines of Montague'ssemiotic program.
As a first step in the syntactic definition of a language, the set ofcategories or types is stated.
A number of constants--or basic expressions--for eachtype is defined, and the combination rules for producing composite xpressions arestated.
For each type of a source language, a corresponding type in the target lan-guage is assigned.
Basic expressions of the source language can be mapped either tobasic or to composite xpressions of the corresponding type in the target language andvice versa.
For each syntactic rule of a source language, a translation rule for map-ping the expression formed by the rule into its translation in the target language isdefined.2.1 Definition of Language LLanguage L contains the textual part of multimodal messages in the domain of maps.An expression of L is, for instance, Saarbr~icken lies at the intersection between the borderbetween France and Germany and a line from Paris to Frankfurt, which is the natural languagepart of Figure 2.
Constants like France and Germany, and all subexpressions of theformer sentence, like the border between France and Germany or a line from Paris to Frankfurtare also in L. In addition, L contains expressions like France is a country, Frankfurt isa city of Germany or Germany is to the east of France, which express general knowledgerequired in the interpretation f maps.2.1.1 Syntactic Definition of L. The set of syntactic ategories of L is as follows:.2.The basic syntactic ategories of L are t, IV, ADJ, CN, and CN I where t isthe category of sentences, IV is the category of intransitive verbs, ADJ isthe category of adjectives, and CN and CN' are two categories ofcommon ouns.If A and B are syntactic ategories then A/B is a category.
4Traditional syntactic categories ofnatural language like transitive verbs (TV), terms(T), prepositional phrases (PP), and determiners (T/CN) can be derived from the basiccategories.4 An expression f category A/B combines with an expression f category B to give an expression fcategory A.149Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2ConstantParis, Frankfurt, Saarbriicken, France,Germanyeastbi~bebe, lie at, be toSENTENCESa, theCategory namecity, country, border, line, intersection CNCN'ADJTVIV/ADJT/CNPPpp'Category definitiont/IVCNCN'ADJIV/(t/IV)IV/ADJ(t/IV)/CNCN/CNCN/CN'IV IVFigure 5Constants of language L.The table in Figure 5 illustrates the constants of L with their category names andcategory definitions.
Common nouns are divided into CN and CNC Expressions ofcategory CN translate into graphical predicates (sets of graphical objects) while ex-pressions of category CN' translate into abstract concepts.
For instance, city translatesinto a set of dots representing cities, but east translates into a geometrical functionfrom regions to zones (e.g., if the region representing France is the argument of thisfunction, the zone to the right of that region is the function value).
Prepositionalphrases are divided into PP and PP~ due to the classification of common nouns intoCN and CNq There are no basic constants of categories PP, PP~, and IV, as prepo-sitional words are introduced syncategorematically and intransitive verb phrases arealways composite xpressions in this grammar.
Transitive verbs are defined in a stan-dard fashion, and the constant be of category IV/ADJ is used to form attributivesentences.Next, the syntactic rules of L are presented.
Each rule is shown in a separate itemcontaining the purpose of the rule, the syntactic rule itself, and some examples ofexpressions that can be formed with the rule.
Following Montague, syntactic rulesand syntactic operations for combining symbols (for instance, FL1) associated to eachrule are separated.
In the following, Pc is the set of expressions of category C.SIL.TRANSITIVE VERB PHRASESIf c~ E PT and fl E PIv, then FL1 (Oz, fl) E Pt, where EL1 (0~, fl) : Olfl*, and fl*is the result of replacing the first verb in fl by its third person singularpresent form.Examples: -Paris is a city of France-Germany is to the east of France-a country is big-Saarbriicken lies at the intersection between the border betweenFrance and Germany and a line from Paris to FrankfurtS2L.150If ~ E PTV and fl E PT, then FL2(Ol, fl) C PIv, where FL2(O~,fl) = O~fl.Examples: -be a city-be to the east of FrancePineda and Garza Multimodal Reference ResolutionATTRIBUTIVE VERB PHRASESS3L.
If c~ E PtV/ADJ and fl E PAD\], then FL2(OL , fl) E PIV.Examples:  -be bigTERMSS4L.
If a E PT/CN and fl E PCN or PcN,, then FL3(a, fl) E PT, whereFL3(Ol, fl) = o~*fl, and c~* is c~ except in the case where a is a and the firstword  in fl begins with a vowel;  here, c~* is an.Examples: -a city-a city of France-the border between France and Germany-a line from Paris to Frankfurt-the east of FranceCOMMON NOUNSSSL.
If c~ E PCN and fl E Ppp, or c~ E PCN' and fl E Ppe,, then FL2(a, fl) E PcN.Examples: -city of France-east of France-border between France and Germany-intersection between the border between France and Germany and a linefrom Paris to Frankfurtof PREPOSITIONAL PHRASES 5S6L.
If ~ E PT, then FL4(Oz) C Ppp or Ppp,, where FL4(O~) --~ Of OL.Examples: -of France-of Germany-of a countrybetween PREPOSITIONAL PHRASESS7L.
If ~,f l  E PT, then FLs(c~,fl) E Ppp, where FLs(c~,fl) ---- between c~ and ft.Examples: -between France and Germany-between France and a country-between the border between France and Germany and a line fromParis to Frankfurtfrom-to PREPOSITIONAL PHRASESSBL.
If ~,fl  E PT, then FL6(O\[,fl) C Ppp, where FL6(C~,fl) =from ~ to ft.Example: -from Paris to Frankfurt5 Although of, between, and from have been introduced syncategorematically in L for simplicity, theycould have been defined as constants of some category of L, and their translations into G would havebeen a composite xpression of some graphical type.151Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2Constant c~Paris, Frankfurt, Saarbr~icken,France, Germanycitycountryborderlineintersectioneastbe, lie at, be toa, theFL(~)Paris, Frankfurt, Saarbrficken,France, Germany.
{Paris, Frankfurt, Saarbrticken .
.
.
.
}{France, Germany, ...}{border between France and Germany, ...}{line from Paris to Frankfurt .
.
.
.
}{intersection between the border betweenFrance and Germany and a line fromParis to Frankfurt, ...}Figure 6Interpretation ofconstants of language L.2.1.2 Semant ic  Def in i t ion  of L. The semantics of L is given in a model-theoreticfashion as follows: The interpretation domain is the world W = {Paris, Saarbrficken,Frankfurt, France, Germany, the border between France and Germany, ...}.
Let Dx bethe set of possible denotations for expressions of type x, and for any types A and B,DA/B = D DB (i.e., the set of all functions from DB to DA).
Let FL be an interpretationfunction that assigns to each constant of type A a member of DA.
For the example inFigure 3, FL is defined as shown in Figure 6.Not every constant of L has an interpretation assigned by FL; in particular, wordslike east, be, lie at, and be to have no interpretation defined directly in L. In principlethe definition of these constants could be stated as an object of the appropriate se-mantic type but this is not a straightforward enterprise.
Consider, for instance, thatthe constant east of category CN r is a basic object (a kind of predicate), but the indi-vidual objects in its extension are not overtly defined in the interpretation domain.Furthermore, it is more natural to talk about the interpretation of composite pred-icates, like east of France, of which east is a part.
However, even the interpretationof such composite predicates is problematic, as they have a vague spatial mean-ing.
For these reasons, the interpretation of these constants is not defined explic-itly as a part of the function FL, but in terms of their translation into G, where aspatial meaning can be formally defined, as will be shown below.
A similar strat-egy is used for the interpretation of spatial prepositions; although of, between, andfrom-to were introduced syncategorematically in the syntax of L, they could havebeen defined as objects of an appropriate category and their semantics could havebeen given explicitly through FL or, alternatively, through their translation into in-tensional logic along the lines of PTQ.
However, the semantic type of such objects isextraordinarily complex, and the actual definition of these constants i seldom seenin the literature.
6 In our system the interpretation f spatial prepositions will also begiven in terms of the translation into G and the interpretation of P. Note also thatno interpretation has been defined for the determiners a and the.
One strategy forassigning a denotation would be to translate these constants into intensional logic,but this would be required only for a larger fragment of English in which reference6 In PTQ, prepositions---of category (IV/IV)/T)--are treated semantically as functions that apply to setsof properties to give functions from properties to properties, but no explicit example of the actualsemantic value of any of these constants i provided.
In our system it will be possible to compute thesemantic value of spatial prepositional phrases in an effective manner, yet the approach is fullycompatible with intensional logic.152Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutionto space was not the focus of study.
In our approach the determiners will be in-terpreted in terms of their translations into G in which high-order functions can beexpressed.In summary, the semantics of some constants and all composite xpressions of Lwill be given in terms of their translations into G and P. Note that according to thescheme in Figure 3, if the translations between L and G, and G and P are defined, andthe semantic interpretation of P is overtly defined, the interpretation of the natural an-guage expressions can be found.
Although the semantics of L is not further discussedin this paper, we consider that the interpretation of linguistic expressions referringto spatial situations could be embedded in a larger fragment of English, and a fullsemantic interpretation would have to be given by translating English into intensionallogic.
In such a model the semantic value of spatial prepositions would be left unde-fined, expressions referring to spatial configurations would be translated into G, andthe interpretation of expressions of G would be embedded within the interpretationof intensional logic.2.2 Definition of Language PIn this section, the syntax and semantics of language P are formally defined.
Thepurpose of these definitions is to characterize the family of drawings that can be in-terpreted as maps, and to discriminate these drawings from other kinds of graphicalconfigurations constituted by dots, curves, and regions.
This notion of a multimodalsystem of representation i  which objects in the graphical modality are formalizedthrough a well-defined language is similar to the notion of graphical language intro-duced by Mackinlay for the automatic design of graphical presentations (Mackinlay1987), where a number of graphical anguages (e.g., the languages of bar charts, areaand position graphs, scatter plots, etc.)
are formally specified.
In Mackinlay's work,expressions of graphical anguages are related to the objects of the world that theyrepresent through an encodes relation with three arguments: the graphical constantor expression performing the representation, the object of the world that is repre-sented through the graphical expression, and the graphical anguage to which thegraphical expression belongs.
7 The formalization of P permits us to define a pre-cise statement of expressiveness of a graphical anguage, as follows: "a set of factsis expressible in a language (graphical) if the language contains a sentence that en-codes every fact in the set and does not encode any additional facts" (Mackinlay 1987,54).
The formalization additionally allows empirical studies to determine how effec-tively a human user can interpret expressions of a particular graphical anguage inrelation to another in which the same set of facts is encoded.
Although all graph-ical languages tudied by Mackinlay are conventional and have a precise geomet-7 Incidentally, a similar encoding relation encodes is used in the WIP system to relate the representationalobject to the object that it represents, but the third argument  of this relation in WIP is a context spacethat allows use of the same presentation i different perspectives (e.g., an espresso machine may referto an individual machine in a context space, or alternatively it can be seen as the prototype of espressomachines in a different context space).
The encodes relation in WIP and in Mackinlay is similar to thetranslation relation between objects of P (or G) and L in our system, and we can think of a graphicallanguage as a language ncoding the information that is intended to be communicated.
However, it isinteresting to note that the status of the "linguistic" argument  of the encodes relation is different in WIPand in Mackinlay's ystem.
In the former, it is an "internal representat ion ' - -a  psychologicalnot ion- -whi le  in the latter it stands for an object or a relation in the world itself--a semantic notion.
Inour approach, on the other hand, there are no "internal representations" and the translation relatesgraphical and linguistic expressions that are both "external" and that both refer to the world through awell-defined semantics.153Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2Constant Typed l ,  d2 ,  d3 , .
.
.
dotll, 12,13 .
.
.
.
lineClr C2r C3r .
?
?
curve.
Y l r  r2 r  r3 ,  .
.
.
.
reg ionZl~ z2~ z3~ .
.
.
zoHecrl, cr2, cr3 .
.
.
.
composite_regionO, dS l ,  ds2  .
.
.
.
dot~etOr IS1, I s2 , .
.
?
l i ne .setml ,  m2,  m3,  .
.
.
mapFigure 7Constants of language P.rical characterization, the notions of expressiveness and effectiveness of graphicallanguages can be applied to more unruly graphical domains (e.g., maps are ana-logical representations with a diagrammatic onventional component) as long as aformalization for the family of drawings can be approximated.
Here, the questionof whether arbitrary families of graphical objects can be formalized through a well-defined syntax is left open, and although it is possible to think of many familiesof drawings with very arbitrary geometries, ome important efforts have been madein the characterization f design and other kinds of objects--see, for instance, shapegrammars (Stiny 1975).
Another related issue that is relevant for the construction ofmultimodal interactive systems is whether it is possible and useful to input expres-sions of P directly, and to obtain their syntactic structure through graphical parsingtechniques (Wittenburg 1998).
In summary, the purpose of formalizing P is to be ableto talk about maps as a modality, where a modality, in our sense, is a code sys-tem for the symbols expressed in a medium, and a multimodal system of represen-tation relates information expressed through different code systems in a systematicfashion.2.2.1 Syntactic Definition of P. The types of P are dot, line, curve, region, zone, compos-ite_region, dot_set, line_set, and map.
Let Cs be the set of constants of type s, and Es theset of well-formed expressions of graphical type s. Although the constants of P arethe actual graphical marks on the screen or a piece of paper, a number of labels forfacilitating the presentation are illustrated in Figure 7.For the syntactic definition of P we capitalize on the distinction introduced byMontague between syntactic rules and syntactic operations.
This distinction is basedon the observation that "syntactic rules can be thought of as comprising two parts:one which specifies under what conditions the rule is to be applied, and the otherwhich specifies what operation to perform under those conditions" (Dowty, Wall, andPeters 1985, 254).
While a syntactic rule comprises both parts and defines the syntacticstructure of an expression, the syntactic operation is a rule that depends on--or atleast takes into account--the shape of the symbols and the medium in which thesymbols are substantially realized.
For instance, the syntactic operation FL5 in the ruleS7L (i.e., FL5(O~,fl) = between c~ and fl) combines the symbols between and and withthe arguments to form the linear string indicated by the operation.
For the definitionof syntactic operations of P we generalize the operations that manipulate strings ofsymbols into general geometrical operations on the shapes of the graphical symbolson the paper or the screen, and these manipulations are defined according to certaingeometrical conditions.154Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference ResolutionThe definition of well-formed expressions of P is as follows:CONSTANTSIp.
If c~ E Cs then c~ E Es.Examples: -, / , .
...................LINES2p.
If v~, fl E Edot then FpI(o~, fl) C Eline where FpI(o~, fl) is a line from a to ft.Example: of:' (the resulting raphical expression is only the line)CURVES3F.
If ~, fl E Eregion such that a and fl are adjacent then Fp2(ol, fl) E Ecurvewhere Fp2(C~,fl) is the curve between c~ and ft.Example: i ................ ~ ......... J (the resulting raphical expression is only the curve)INTERSECTIONS4F.RIGHTIf ~ E Ecurve and fl E Eti,,e then Fp3(ol, fl) E Edot where Fp3(oz, fl) is the dotin the intersection between o~ and ft.Example: ~ \ (the resulting raphical expression is only the dot)S5p.
If ~ C Eregion then Fp4(~ ) C Ezone where Fp4(a) is the zone to the right ofthe region ~ (the interpretation of "right" will be given below in thesemantics of language G).Example:DOT INSIDE A REGION(the resulting raphical expression is only the gray zone)S6p.
If ~ c Eregion then Fp5(C~) C Eaot where Fps(a) is the drawing of a dotinside c~.i.,.--'...._.~\Example: i.Z__i (the resulting graphical expression is only the dot)155Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2COMPOSITE REGION (1) 8S7p.
If c~, fl E Cregion such that a and fl are adjacent thenFp6(oz, fl) C Ecomposite_region where Fp6(ct , fl) is the drawing of a and ft.COMPOSITE REGION (2)S8p.
If c~ E Cregion and fl E Ecomposite_region such that a and fl are adjacent thenFp6(oz, fl) E Ecomposite_region.SET OF DOTSS9p.
If o~ E Edot_set and fl E C~ot hen Fp6(cGfl) C Edot~set.SET OF LINESS10p.
If o~ E Eline._set and fl E Cline then Fp6(oz , fl) E Eline~et.MAPS11p.
If ~ E Ecomposite_region, fl E Edot~et and 6 E Eline~et then Fp7(oz, fl, 6) E Ema pwhere Fp7(oz, fl, 6) is the drawing of ~, fl and 6.With the help of this grammar it is possible to draw maps like the one illustratedin Figure 2.
Note that the basic object in this particular graphical construction is theregion.
The idea is to successfully construct a map from its constituting regions (i.e.,as in a jigsaw puzzle) until the full map is produced.
Once the map is constructed,other kinds of objects with conventional meanings, like dots and lines, can be drawnupon the assembly of regions.
Consider Figure 8 in which the syntactic structure ofthe map in Figure 4 is shown.
Note that the decision to use regions as basic objects inthe graphical composition is not mandatory, and alternative constructions are possible;for instance, we could have designated curves as basic objects and obtained regions ascompositions made out of curves.
The set of graphical symbols included in a graphicalsyntactic tree of a map will be called the base.
For instance, the base of the mapin Figure 8 is the set {dl, d2,d3,/1, rl, r2, r3, r4}.
The base is just the set of graphicalobjects that are taken as the atoms of the graphical composition in each particularinterpretation task, and different graphical grammars would select different ypes ofgraphical objects for the base.The purpose of this grammar is illustrative; we make no claims about what con-stitutes a map.
P imposes very few constraints on graphical expressions, and manyconfigurations that can be produced with these rules might not count as maps; in ad-dition, P is not expressive enough to characterize a large number of objects that wouldbe normally interpreted as maps.
Another consideration is that graphical objects canbe used either as basic building blocks of the construction, or as objects produced bygraphical compositions (which we call emergent objects); for instance, in the grammarof P, regions are basic objects but curves are produced by graphical compositions.
Ad-ditionally, in some contexts the interpretation f the graphical expression as a whole8 Examples for the rules S7p to S11p are included in the construction of the map in Figure 8, asexplained below.156Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference ResolutionJI :.
r4 i CJ r c6 ??..
2.............. ,   ~ rj\c2I rt c ~ d 3\[ dt ict , P7J........... ?
i...~...... " ~ r2rl, P6d3 ?
"a~ "a, ,P6Figure 8Construction of a map........ ........ \............... 4..r~.
r2rt, P6............. .
,.rt " "a" i  ~ r2 , P6rl ")dj" , P6/ \?
, P6 "a, a,/ \, P6K\omay be required but in others only the interpretation f some of the parts may be rel-evant; for instance, although curves are not a part of the syntactic tree in Figure 8 theycan be generated and translated into G when required through rules S3p and T3p-Gas long as the composition is made out of regions included in the base of the map.Had the grammar allowed the generation of composite regions out of regions of thebase, these emergent objects could also be used for the generation of curves.
Anotherconsideration is that expressions of type map are in general ambiguous as they haveseveral syntactic analyses, but since this feature is harmless for the current discussionwe do not pursue the issue further.
A final remark is that alternative grammars couldbe defined for characterizing the same class of drawings with different consequencesin the syntax and the semantics.
One possibilitity, for instance, is to define a syntacticoperation that takes two adjacent regions and produces the union of the regions as onesingle emerging region, instead of the set of the two regions as currently defined.
Sucha rule would be similar to the rule that combines two regions to produce a curve, andit would be useful in applications like XTRA (Wahlster 1991), in which the ambiguityof pointing to a part or the whole is intended to be resolved.2.2.2 Semantic Definition of F. The semantics of P is given in a model-theoreticfashion as follows: Let W = Acity CJ Aline U Aborde r U Acountry Uazone be the world.
Let Dx157Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2Constant a FF(a).
d l ,  d2,  d3 , .
?
?
.
Par i s ,  Saarbr f i cken ,  F rankfur t  .
.
.
.
.l l ,  12,13,.  ?
?
line from Paris to Frankfurt, ...cl, c2, c3,.., border between France and Germany, ...rl, r2, r3,.
?
?
France, Germany,...Zl,Z2,Z3,... east of France, east of Germany,...crb cr2, cr3 .
.
.
.
region formed by France and Germany, ...O, dSl, ds2 .
.
.
.
sets  o f  c i t iesO, lsl, Is2 .
.
.
.
se t  o f  l inesml, m2, m3,  ?
?
?
mapsFigure 9Semantics of constants of P.be the set of possible denotations for expressions of type x, such that Ddo t = Ac i ty ,  Dline =Al ine ,  Dcurve ~- Aborder ,  Dregion -= Acount ry ,  Dzone = Azone,  and, for any types a and b, D(a,b ) =D G (i.e., the set of all functions from Da to Db).
Let Fp be an interpretation function bthat assigns to each constant of type a a member of Da.
The interpretations of theconstants are presented in Figure 9.Following Montague, we adopt the notational convention by which the semanticvalue or denotation of an expression c~ with respect o a model M is expressed as\[\[a\]\] M. The semantic rules for interpreting language L are the following:CONSTANTM1p.
If a E Cs then \[\[a\]\] M = Fp(c~).L INEM2p.
If a, fl E Edot then \[\[Fpl(a, fl)\]\] M = is a line from \[\[a\]\] M to \[\[fl\]\]M.CURVEM3p.
I f  OZ, fl C Eregion such that a and fl are adjacent hen \[\[Fp2(a, fl)\]\] M is theborder between \[\[a\]\] M and \[\[fl\]\]M.INTERSECTIONM4p.
If a E Ecurve and fl E Eline then \[\[Fp3(a, fl)\]\] M is the intersection between\[\[a\]\] M and \[\[fl\]\]M.RIGHTM5p.
If a E Ere#on then \[\[Fp4(O~)\]\] M is the east of \[Jail M.DOT INS IDE A REGIONM6p.
If o~ E Eregion then \[\[Fps(a)\]\] M is a city of \[\[O~\]\] M.158Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference ResolutionCOMPOSITE REGION (1)M7p.
If a, fl E Cregion such that c~ and fl are adjacent then \[\[Fps(a, fl)\]\] M is theunion of {\[\[a\]\] M} and {\[\[fl\]\]M}.COMPOSITE REGION (2)M8p.
If c~ C Cregion and fl C Ecomposite_region such that c~ and fl are adjacent then\[\[Fp5(c~, fl)\]\]M is the union of the sets {\[\[c~\]\] M} and \[\[fl\]\]M.SET OF DOTSM9p.
If c~ E Edot~et and fl E Cdot then \[\[FFs(o~,fl)\]\] M is the union of the sets\[\[~\]\]M and {\[\[fl\]\]M}.SET OF LINESM10p.
If a E Eline_set and fl E Cline then \[\[Fp5(Ol, f )\]\] M is the union of the sets\[\[c~\]\] M and {\[\[fl\]\]M}.MAPM11p.
If ~ E Ecomposite_region, fl C Edot_set and 5 E Eline_set hen \[\[Fp6(O G fl, 5)\]\]M is theunion of the sets \[\[~\]\]M, [\[fl\]\]M and \[\[6\]\] M.2.3 Definition of Language GIn this section the syntax and semantics of the graphical anguage G are formallystated.
G is defined along the lines of intensional logic, and it is expressive noughto refer to graphical symbols and configurations, on the one hand, and to express thetranslation of quantified expressions of L, on the other.2.3.1 Syntactic Definition of G. The types of the language G are as follows: 91.2.3.4.e is a type (graphical objects).t is a type (truth values).If a and b are any types, then (a, b / is a type.
1?Nothing else is a type.Let Vs be the set of variables of type s, Cs the set of constants of type s, andEs the set of well-formed expressions of graphical type s. The constants of G arepresented in Figure 10.
Note that constants like right, curve_between, etc.
have an9 A simplifying assumption rests on the consideration that the interpretations of all expressions includedin these languages depend only on the current graphical state and no intensional types are included inthe system.
However, this analysis can be extended along the lines of intensional logic to be able todeal with a more comprehensive fragment of English.10 An expression of type /a, b) combines with an expression of type a to give an expression of type b.159Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2Constant Typee dl, d2, d3, rl, r2, r3, r4, I1dot, region, curve, line, intersectionrightlie3t, be_in-zone, insidezA, V, *--+curve_between, intersection_between, linGfrom_toright*lie_at., be_in_zone., inside.
(e, t}(((e,t},t),(e,t}}(((e,t),t},(e,t))(e,(e,t))(t,(t,t}}(((e,t),t},(((e,t),t},(e,t}})(e, e}le, le, t})curve_between*, intersection_between*, li e_from_to* (e, {e, e} )Figure 10Constants of language G.associated right,, curve_between,, etc.
The unsubscripted version of these constantsdenotes a relation between sets of properties of graphical individuals and the sub-scripted version denotes the corresponding geometrical relation between individuals;the type-raised version is used for preserving quantification properties in the trans-lation process from L into G, while the subscripted version is used for computingthe geometry associated with the corresponding relation, as will be shown below inSection 2.3.2.G is a formal language with constants and variables for all types, functional ab-straction and application, and existential and universal quantification.
The syntacticrules of G are as follows:1.
I fac2.
I f#  E3.
I fa  E4.
I fa  c5.
I f#  C6.
I f#  ECs, then a E Es.Vs, then # c Es.E(a,b) and fl E Ea, then a(fl) C Eb.Ea and u C Vb, then .ku\[a\] C E(b,a).Vs and fl C Et then 3tt(fl) E Et.Vs and fl E Et then V#(fl) E Et.G is a very expressive language and not every well-formed expression has a trans-lation into L as will be further discussed in Section 2.5.
Useful translations are, forinstance, names and descriptions of geometrical objects and configurations.
Next, thedefinition of expressions of G that have a translation into L is presented.
For clarity,the abbreviations in Figure 11 are used.Two geometrical interpretations are given for the spatial prepositions of and be-tween.
Although the characterization f the meaning of these words is a very complexproblem that is beyond the scope of this paper, we allow that spatial prepositions canbe interpreted in more than one way, as long as each interpretation is stated in termsof a geometrical lgorithm explicitly defined in G. For instance, the spatial meaningof of is different in city of France and east of France.
In the former, of denotes a spatialinclusion relation (OFa), but in the latter it denotes a relation of adjacency (OFB).
Sim-ilarly, the spatial meaning of between in border between France and Germany and its firstoccurrence in intersection between the border between France and Germany and a line fromParis to Frankfurt is different, as it denotes a curve in the first case (BETWEENa) and adot in the second (BETWEENb).160Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference ResolutionAbbreviationATHEBEaBEbDiRiOFaOrbBETWEENaFormal expressionAPAQ3x\[P(x) A Q(x)\];~P)~Q3y\[Vx\[P(x) ~ x = y\] A Q(y)\],kP,kxP(,ky\[x = y\]),kP)~xP(x),kP\[P(di)\]AP\[P(ri)\]/~X((e,t},t})~y(e,O/~Ze~(Z ) A inside(x)(z)\]"~X ((e,t},t} )~y (( (e,t 13},el ~Ze ~y (X ) (Z)\]/~X( e,t),t) ~y ( (e,t),t) .~Z (e,t) ~Ue\[z(u) A curvedaetween(x)(y)(u)\]BETWEENb .~X((e,t),t).~y((e,t),t)~Z(e,t).~Ue\[z(u) A intersection_between(x) (y)(u)\]FROM_TO Ax ( (e,t),t) ,ky ( (e,t).t) .~Z (e,t) .~Ue\[z(u) A line_from_to(x)(y)(u)\]Type((e,t),((e,t),t))((e,t),((e,t),t))(((e,t),t),(e,t))((e,t),(e,t))((e,t),t)((e,t),t)(((e,t),t),((e,t),(e,t)))(((e,t),t),((((e,t),t),e),(e,t)))(((e,t),t),(((e,t),t),((e,t),(e,t))))( ( (e,t),t), ( ( (e,t),t), ( (e,t), (e,t) ) ) )(((e, t), t), (((e, t), t), ((e, t), (e, t))))Figure 11Shorthand efinitions.The restrictions for the expressions of G that can be translated into L are g ivenbelow.
In rules S6G to S8G, Q stands for either the quantif ier A or THE.SENTENCESSIG.
If oz C E((e,t),t ) and fl C E(e,t), then FGl(OZ, fl ) E Et, where FGl(OZ, fl ) ~- o~(fl).Examples: - D1 (BEa (A (OFa(R1) (dot))))- R 3 (be_in _zone (THE (OrB(R1) (right))))- A (region) (BEB(bix))- D 3 (lie~qt (THE (BETWEENB(THE (BETWEENa(R1) (R3) (curve)))(A (FROM_TO(D1) (D3) (line)))(intersection))))TRANSITIVE VERB PHRASES$2c.
If a E E(((e,t),t),(e,t) ) and fl E E((e,t),t ) then FGl(a, fl) C EGO.Examples: - BE a (A (dot))- be_in_zone (THE (OFb(R1)(right)))ATTRIBUTIVE VERB PHRASESS3G.
If a E E((e,t),(e,t) ) and fl E E(e,t } then FGl(a, fl) C EGO.Example: - BE b (big)TERMSS4G.
If a C E((e,t),((e,t),t))) and fl C E(e,t), then FGl(a, fl) E E((e,t),t ).Examples: - A (dot)- A (OFa(R1)(dot))- THE (BETWEENa(R1) (R2) (curve))- A (FROM_TO(D1) (D3) (line))- THE (OPb(R1)(right))161Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2COMMON NOUNS$5c.
If a E E(<e,t>,(e,0> and fl E E<e,t ), or a E E<(<(e,0,0,e),<e,0) andfl E E(((e,t),t),e ), then FGI(OGfl ) E EGO.Examples: - OFa(R1)(dot)- OFb(R1)(right)- BETWEENa(R1) (R2) (curve)- BETWEEN b (THE(BETWEENa(R1)(R2)(curve))) (A(FROM_TO(D1)(D3)(line) ) )(intersection )of PREPOSITIONAL PHRASESS6G.
If (~ E E((e,t),t) such that c~ is either Ri or Q(region), then FG2(a) E E((e,t),(e,O)and FG3(O~) E E((((e,t),t},<e,t)),<e,t)l,where FG2(Oz) ---- OFa(O~) and FG3(O~) = OFb(O~)Examples: - OFa(R1)- OFb(R2)- OFa(A(region))between PREPOSITIONAL PHRASES$7c.
(a) If (~, fl E E((e,t),t) such that (~,fl are either Ri or Q(region), thenFG4(O~, fl) E E((e,t),(e,t} I, where  FG4(Ol , fl) = BETWEENa(OI)(fl).
(b) If c~, fl E E(<e,t),t } such that c~ is either ci or Q(curve) and fl is eitherLi or Q(line), then Fcs(~, fl) E E( (e,O,<e,t) ),where FG5(c~, fl) = BETWEENb(OI)(fl).Examples: - BETWEENa(R1) (R2)- BETWEENa(R1) (A(region))- BETWEEN b (THE (BETWEENa(R1) (R2) (curve))) (A (FROM_TO(D1) (D3)(line)))from-to PREPOSITIONAL PHRASESS8G.
If a, fl E E((e,t},t ) such that a, fl are either Di or Q(dot), thenFG5(Ol, fl) E E((e,t),(e,t) ),where FG5(c~,fl) = FROM_TO(o~)(fl)Example: - FROM_TO(D1) (D3)2.3.2 Semantic Definition of G. The interpretation of expressions of G is definedin relation not to the world W but to a domain constituted by the graphical objectsin P. For this reason, we refer to the interpreter of G as a geometrical interpreter,and to the process of interpreting expressions of G as a geometrical interpretationprocess.
The semantics of G is given in a model-theoretic fashion as follows: LetPhase = {dl, d2, d3, rl, r2, r3, r4,11} be the set of basic graphical objects hown in Figure 4.Let P be the union of Phase and all graphical objects that can be produced from Phasewith the help of geometrical functions: the emergent objects.
Emergent objects can alsobe produced on the basis of other emergent objects previously generated.
A particular162Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutionkind of emergent object that is interesting for the current discussion is the zone ofa map that is considered to be the east of a region.
For the production of emergentobjects in P there is a well-defined computational geometry algorithm associated withan operator symbol of G, as will be seen below.Let Dx be the set of possible denotations for expressions of type x, such that De = P,Dt ~- {1, 0}, and, for any types a and b, D(a,b I = D~ a.
Let FG be an interpretation functionthat assigns to each constant of type a a member of Da.
For every graphical object ~ inPbase there is a constant ~ of type e such that Fc (c~) = ~; for our example, FG assigns theobjects dl, d2, d3, rl, r2, r3, r4, and 11 to the constants dl, d2, d3, rl, r2, r3, r4, and ll, respec-tively.
The interpretation (assigned by FG) of the geometrical-type redicates dot, re-gion, curve, line, intersection are the sets containing the corresponding graphical objects.The constants right., lie~at., be_in_zone., inside., curve_between., intersection_between.,and line_from_to are interpreted as geometrical functions.
If the arguments of thesegeometrical functions are of an appropriate type, expressions containing these con-stants can be properly interpreted through geometrical algorithms; otherwise, theseexpressions have no denotation in G and, as a consequence, their translations into Lalso lack denotation.
For further discussion of the interpretation of graphical expres-sions that have no proper graphical referent in the interpretation state, see Pineda(1992).Following Montague, the interpretation of variables is defined in terms of an as-signment function g. We adopt the notational convention by which the semantic valueor denotation of an expression ~ with respect o a model M and a value assignmentg is expressed as \[\[c~\]\] M'~.The semantic rules for interpreting expressions of G are the following:?2.3.4...If c~ E Cs, then \[\[c~\]\] M = FG(c~).If # E Vs, then \[\[#\]\]M,g = g(#).If c~ E Ela,b I, and fl E Ea, then \[\[c~(fl)\]\]M,g = \[\[c~\]\]M'g(\[\[fl\]\])M'gI f  OL C Ea and u E Vb, then \[\[)~u\[c~\]\]\] M'g is that function h from Db into Dasuch that for all objects k in Db, h(k) is equal to \[\[c~\]\] M,~', where g' isexactly like g except hat g'(u) = k.If # E Vs and fl c Et then \[\[3#(fl)\]\]M,~ = 1 iff for some value assignment g'such that g' is exactly like g except possibly for the individual assignedto # by g', \[\[fl\]\]M,g' = 1.If # C Vs and fl E Et then \[\[V#(fl)\]\]M,g = 1 iff for every value assignmentg~ such that g' is exactly like g except possibly for the individualassigned to # by g', \[\[fl\]\]M,g' = 1.In order to capture the translation of expressions of L into G compositionally,while preserving the quantificational properties of the original source natural lan-guage expression, terms in G referring to graphical objects are type-raised; conse-quently, graphical predicates like be_in_zone, curve_between, and inside have type-raisedarguments.
The expression curve_between()~P\[P(rl)\]) (,~P\[P(r2)\]) (x), for instance, refersto the curve x between regions rl and r2; the first two arguments refer not to theregions themselves, but to the set of properties that such regions have.
Similarly, theexpression inside(,~P3y\[region(y)/~ P(y)\])(z) denotes that the dot z is inside a regiony, but the first argument denotes the set of properties P that the region has, rather163Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2than denoting y directly.
However, whenever the full interpretation of these expres-sions in relation to a finite domain of graphical objects is required, they must betransformed into equivalent first-order expressions.
This transformation is achievedthrough meaning postulates.
The result of these transformations for the examplesabove are curve_between.
( q, r2 ) = x and 3y \[region (y ) A inside.
(z, y)\], where curve_between.and inside, denote geometrical functions whose arguments are graphical entities.
Themeaning postulates are defined as follows:MP1.
VxVP\[6(P) (x) ~ P(Ay\[8.
(x, y)\]) where 6 c {lieAt, be_in_zone, inside}MP2.
VxVP\[8(P)(x) ,-.
P(Ay\[6.
(y) = x\]) where 6 E {right}MP3.
VxVPlVP2\[~(P1)(P2)(x) ~ P2(Au\[Pl(Av\[f.(v,u) = x\])\]) where 6 c {curve_between,intersection_between, li e_from_to}where P, P1, and P2 are variables ranging over sets of properties (i.e., of type ((e, t/, t)),and x, y, u, and v are variables ranging over individuals.
Meaning postulate MP1establishes, for instance, that a geometrical relation that holds between a set of prop-erties of an individual a and an individual b stands in one-to-one correspondencewith the relation that holds between the individuals a and b themselves, ince theonly property of a that is relevant for the geometrical interpretation process is theproperty of being in such a geometrical relation with the object b (i.e., that the object alies at, is in a zone of, or is inside the object b).
Similarly for meaning postulates MP2and MP3.The five examples that follow illustrate how the graphical interpreter works.Example 1Consider the interpretation of the expression A(region) (BE (big)), which is the transla-tion of a country is big.
The expression can be reduced as follows:1?2.3.4.5.APAQ3x\[P(x) A Q(x)\] (region)(APAzP(z))(big)APAQ3x\[P(x) A Q(x)\] (region) (Az big(z))AQ3x\[region(x) A Q(x)\](Az big(z))3x\[region(x) A Az big(z)(x)\]3x\[region(x) A big(x)\]Expression (5) is interpreted through the standard quantification rules of the geomet-rical interpreter without the help of meaning postulates.
The interpretation of big isan algorithm that computes the average area of all regions in the map and returns theset of all regions whose area is larger than the average.
This is a simple conventionfor illustrative purposes and alternative conventions could be chosen.
Although thepurpose of this paper is not to explore issues related to the interpretation of vagueterms, it is interesting to note that within the present framework specific algorithmsrelated to specific application domains that take into account he graphical contextcould be defined for the construction of practical applications.Example 2Consider the interpretation of THE (BETWEEN a (R1) (R2) (curve))--which is the trans-lation of the border between France and Germany, as will be shown in Section 2.4.1.
The164Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutionexpression without the abbreviations i :1.
APAQ3y\[Vx\[P(x) ~ x = y\] A Q(y)\](,~X( e,t),t) AY( (e,t),t) "~Z(e,t~ " Ue \[Z(U) A curvedJetween (x)(y) (u)\](AP\[P(rl)\])(AP\[P(r2)\])(curve))which can be reduced as follows:...5.6....10.APAQ3y\[Vx\[P(x) ~ x -- y\] A Q(y)\](Au\[curve(u) A curve_between(&P\[P(rl)\])(AP\[P(r2)\])(u)\])~Q3y~x\[,ku \[curve(u) A curve_between( &P\[P(rl )\])( ),P\[P(r2)\])(u)\] (x)x = y\] A Q(y)\]~Q3y\[Vx\[(curve(x) A curve_between(&P\[P(rl)\])(~P\[P(r2)\])(x)) ~ x = y\] A Q(y)\]&Q3y\[Vx\[(curve(x) A curved~etween (&P\[P(rl)\])(~P\[P(r2)\])(x)) ~-* x -- y\] A Q(y)\]~Q3y\[Vx\[(curve(x) A ~P\[P(r2)\] ( ~u\[~P\[P(rl )\] ( ~v\[curve_between, (v, u) =x\])\])) ~ x = y\] A Q(y)\]~Q3y\[Vx\[(curve(x) A,~P\[P(r2)\] (&u\[&v\[curve_between, (v, u) = x\] (rl)\])) ~ x = y\]AQ(y)\]A Q 3y\[ Vx\[ (eurve( x )AQ(y)\]A Q 3y\[V x\[ (curve( x)A Q3y\[Vx\[ (curve( x)A ~hP\[P(r2)\] (/~u\[curved3etween, (rl, u) -- x\])) ~ x -- y\]A Au\[curve_between, (rl, u) = x\] (r2)) ~ x = y\] A Q(y)\]A curved~etween,(rl, r2) -- x) *-* x = y\] A Q(y)\]Note that Expression (5) cannot be further reduced unless the types of the ar-guments of the predicate curve_between are lowered with the help of meaning pos-tulate MP3.
The geometrical functions in Expression (10) can be evaluated irectly.Expression (10) is a denoting concept hat refers to the curve between the regionsrl and r2 and cannot be further reduced.
Consider that the expression the borderbetween France and Germany is a definite description and, in order to obtain a truthvalue, must be combined with a predicate.
The graphical object referred to by (10),on the other hand, could be identified regardless of the nature of the predicate Q,as this predicate is not used for picking out the object referred to by the definitedescription.
11We call the object referred to by the denoting concept its concrete xten-sion.
The concrete xtension of (10) can be identified, for instance, by interpreting thedenoting concept without using the predicative abstraction Q (i.e., 3y\[Vx\[(curve(x) Acurve&etween*(rl, r2) = x) ~ x = y\]\]) in relation to the graphical domain; if the denot-ing concept is indefinite, we take any object satisfying the expression as its concreteextension.11 As argued by Kaplan, contextual factors have to be considered for the identification of the referent of adefinite description used referentially rather than attributively (Kaplan 1978).
If the referent is identifieddeictically, as in the current example, the referent is found through the translation of the definitedescription i to the graphical language, where the shape of the object is available directly.
Note as wellthat as expressions of G have an interpretation not only in relation to the graphical domain but also inrelation to the world, through the translation i to P and the semantics of P, the referent of a definitedescription i  L can be found by computing the geometrical interpretation f its translation i to G.165Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2Example  3Consider  the interpretat ion of an expression similar to the one in Example  2, butin which an indefinite is included.
The expression is THE (BF.TWEENa (R1) (A(region))(curve)), which is the translat ion of the border between France and a country.
The fullexpression is:.
,~P)~Q3y\[Vx\[P(x) ~ x = y\] A Q(y)\]('~X((e,t),o)~Y(<e,t),t}'~Z(e,t))~Ue\[Z(U) A curve_between(x)(y)(u)\](,~P\[P(rl)\])(,~P3z\[region(z) A P(z)\])(curve)))the reduct ion is as follows:........,~P,~Q3y\[Vx\[P(x) *-* x = y\] A Q(y)\](,~u \[curve(u) A curve_between( )~P\[P(rl)\])( ~P3z\[region(z) A P(z)\])(u)\])~Q3y\[Vx\[~u \[curve(u) A curve_between (,~P\[P(rl)\]) (,~P3z \[region (z) AP(z)\])(u)\](x) *-* x = y\] A Q(y)\])~Q3y\[Vx\[(curve(x) A curve_between(&P\[P(rl)\])(&P3z\[region(z) A P(z)\])(x) )x = y\] A Q(y)\],~Q3y\[Vx\[(curve(x) A &P3z\[region(z) AP(z)\]()~u\[&P\[P(rl)\]()~v\[curve_between.
(v, u) = x\])\])) +-* x = y\] A Q(y)\])~Q3y\[Vx\[(curve(x) A &P3z\[region(z) A P(z)\](&u\[&v\[curve_between.
(v, u) =x\](rl)\])) *-* x = y\] A Q(y)\])~Q3y\[Vx\[(curve(x) A ,~P3z\[region(z) A P(z)\] ()~u\[curve_between.
(rl, u) =x\])) *-~ x = y\] A Q(y)\],~Q3y\[Vx\[(curve(x) A 3z\[region(z) A )tu(\[curvedaetween.
(rl, u) = x\] (z)\]) ~-* x =y\] A Q(y)\],~Q3y\[Vx\[(curve(x) A 3z\[region(z) Acurve_between.
(rl, z) = x\]) ~ x = y\] A Q(y)\]Mean ing  postulate MP3 is used for reduc ing f rom (4) to (5).
Expression (9) is a denot ingconcept  similar to the final express ion in Example  2, but  one which has an embeddedquanti f ied expression.
Mean ing  postules MP1 to MP3 are def ined in such a way  thatterms preserve quanti f icat ional  propert ies  through the reduct ion process.Example  4Consider  the expression R2(be_in_zone(TI-IE(OFb(R1)(right))))--which is t e translat ion ofGermany is to the east of France.
The reduced express ion is the fol lowing:1. be_in_zone(,~Q3y\[Vx\[right(,~P\[P(rl)\])(x) ~ x = y\] A Q(y)\])(r2)by mean ing  postulate MP2:.3.4.be_in_zone( )~Q3y\[Vx\[)~P\[P(rl)\] ( &z [right.
(z) = x\]) ~-~ x = y\] A Q(y)\])(r2)be_in_zone(,~Q3y\[Vx\[~z\[right.
(z) = x\] (rx) *-+ x = y\] A Q(y)\])(r2)be_in_zone()~Q3y\[Vx\[right.
(rl) = x *-~ x = y\] A Q(y)\])(r2)166Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutionby meaning postulate MPI:.6.7.
)~Q3y\[Vx\[right, (rl) = x *-* x = y\] A Q(y)\] (&z\[be_in_zone, (r2, z)\])3y\[Vx\[right, (rl) = x ~-~ x = y\] A &z\[be_in~zone, (r2, z)\] (y)\]3y\[Vx\[right , (rl) = x *--* x = y\] A be_in_zone,(r2, y)\].Expression (7) is a first-order formula that can be directly evaluated by the interpreterof G. The operator ight, is interpreted as a geometrical lgorithm that computes thecentroid (xc, yc) of a region r and returns the semiplane to the right of the centroidof r (i.e., the set of all ordered pairs of reals (xi, yi) such that xi)xc).
This conventioncaptures objects that are to the right of a region, or those in the right part of a region.
12The graphical predicate be_in_zone, checks whether 2 is within y--i.e., the zone to theright of rl.Example 5Consider the interpretation of the translation into G of the textual part of the multi-modal message in Figure 2.
The translation of Saarbr~icken lies at the intersection betweenthe border between France and Germany and a line from Paris to Frankfurt is shown in (1), itsreduction in (2), and its final reduction applying the meaning postulates in (3):...D 3 (lie-at (THE (BETWEEN b (THE (BETWEEN a (R1) (R3) (curve)))(A (FROM_TO(D 0 (D3) (line)))(intersection)) ) )lie_at( )~Q3y\[Vx\[intersection(x) A intersection-between( ;~Q~u \[Vv \[(curve(v)Acurve_between(&P\[P(rl ) ])( &P\[P(r2)\])(v) ) ~ v= u\] A Q(y)\])(&Q3z\[line(z) A line_from_to(,~P\[P(dl)\])(&P\[P(d3)\])(z) A Q )\])= x ~ x = y\] A Q(y)\]) (D3)3y\[Vx\[(intersection(x) A 3z\[line(z) A line=from_to, (dl, d3) = zA3u\[Vv\[(curve(v) A curve_between, (rl, r2) = v)V = U\]Aintersection_between, (u, z) = x\]) ~ x= y\] A lie_at, (d2, y)\].Expression (3) is true if the position of dot d3 is the same as the position of theintersection between the curve between rl and r2 and the line from dl to d3, as is thecase in Figure 2.It is worth emphasizing that as the five examples illustrate, the reason for type-raising graphical terms is to be able to translate natural language quantified expressioninto the graphical domain compositionally in a rather elegant way.
The scheme pro-vides a clear specification strategy; however, in a practical implementation, it would12 This is an arbitrary convention defined for illustrative purposes and altemative conventions could bechosen.
Similar conventions could be used to interpret whether other kinds of graphical objects tandin a right-of relation.
Furthermore, several conventions for the interpretation f such words can beused and a particular geometric algorithm can be defined for each interpretation.
These algorithmsneed not be fully quantitative; more qualitative approaches can be employed as long as thecomputation returns a semantic value of an appropriate kind.167Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2constant of L:o?ParisFrankfurtCategorynameGermanyCategorydefinitiont/IVt/iVSaarbriicken T t/IVFrance T t/IVTCNCNcitycountryt/IVCNCNTranslation into G:PL--G (O z )APIP(dl)\]AP\[P(d3)\]AP\[P(d2)\]AP\[P(rl)\]AP\[P(r2)\]dotregionborder CN CN curveline CN CN lineintersection intersectioneastCNCN'ADJTVbigbebe IV/ADJlie at TVbe toCNCN'ADJW/(t / IV)IV/ADJIV/(t/IV)IV/(t/IV)(t/ IV)/CN(t/IV)/CNTVa T/CNthe T/CNrightbigAPAxP(Ay\[x = y\])APAxP(x)lie_atbe_in_zoneAPAQ3x\[P(x) A Q(x)\]APAQ3y\[Vx\[P(x) ~ x = y\] A Q(y)\]Corresponding typein G((e,t),t)((e,t),t)((e,t),t)((e,t),t)((GO, t )(e, t)(e, t)(e, t)(e, t)(e, t)(((e, t), t), e)(e, t)(((e,t),t), (e,t))((e, t), (e, t))(((e,t),t), (e,t))(((e, t), t), (e, t))((e, t), ((e, t), t))((e, t), ((e, t), t))Figure 12Translation of constants of L into G.be convenient to limit the expressive power of G and to define it as a first-orderlanguage.2.4 Translat ions between L and GIn this section, the translation functions PL-G and PG-L are defined.
As discussedin Section 1, the goal in interpreting a multimodal message like the one in Figure 2is to find the translations of individual constants, which are not known.
In this sec-tion, however, we assume that the translation is fully defined in order to illustrateall theoretical elements of the scheme in Figure 3.
The induction of the translation ofindividual constants, on the other hand, will be shown in Section 3.For each syntactic ategory of L there is a corresponding type in G. The correspon-dence between linguistic categories and geometrical types resembles the translationfrom English to intensional logic (Dowty, Wall, and Peters 1985) and is defined interms of the function f as follows:1. f ( t )  = t.2.
f (CN)  = f ( IV )  = f (ADJ )  = (e, t).3.
For any categories A and B, f (A /B)  = { f (B) , f (A ) ) .2.4.1 Translation from L into G. Figure 12 shows the translation of constants of L.Simple terms, such as the names of cities and countries, translate into expressionsdenoting characteristic functions of sets of graphical entities.
This graphical type isinterpreted as the set of "properties" that an individual named by the term has (forthe purpose of this discussion a property is just the set of individuals, as no inten-sional types are considered).
So, as a city is represented by a dot in the graphicaldomain, the translation of Paris, for instance, is the set of geometrical properties thatthe dot representing Paris has in the interpretation state.
Common nouns of categoryCN and CN'  translate into predicates and functions from sets of properties to individ-uals, respectively.
Adjectives occurring in attributive sentences are translated as setsof individuals.
Note that there are two constants be: one combines with a term and168Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutionthe other with an adjective and both combinations produce intransitive verbs.
Thetranslations corresponding to these constants are functions from sets of properties tosets of individuals, and from sets of individuals to sets of individuals, respectively.Transitive verbs like lie~t and be_to translate into geometrical operators whose type isa function from sets of properties to sets of individuals.
Determiners are translated ina standard fashion.The translation rules for composite xpressions are as follows:SENTENCESTIL-G.
If c~ E PT and fl c Ply, and PL-G(a) = ~',PL-G(fl) = fl' thenPL-G (FL1 (c~, fl)) ---- a'(f l ' ) ,  that is to say, the function c~' applied to theargument fl'.Examples: PL-G(Paris is a city of France) = D1 (BEa (A (OFa(R1) (dot))))PL_G(Germany is to the east of France) ----R 3 (be_in_zone (THE (OFD(R1) (right))))PL-G (a country is big) = A(region) (BEB(bix))PL-G ( Saarbr~icken lies at the intersection between the border betweenFrance and Germany and a line from Paris to Frankfurt) ----D 3 (lie_at (THE (BETWEEN b (THE (BETWEEN a (R1) (R3)(curve)))(A (FROM_TO(D1) (D3) (line)))(intersection))))TRANSITIVE VERB PHRASEST2L--G. If c~ E PTV and fl E PT, and PL-a(a)  = a',PL-a(fl) = fl' thenPL_G(FL2(O~, fl) ) = O/ (fl').Examples: PL-G(bea city) = BEa (A (dot))PL-a(be to the east of France) = be_in,zone (THE (OFb(R1)(right)))ATTRIBUTIVE VERB PHRASEST3L-G.
If a C PW/ADI and fl E PADI, and PL-G(~) = OLt , ;OL- -G( f l )  = fit thenPL--G(FL2(O~, fl) ) = O/ (fl').Example: PL_G(be big) ~- BEb(big )TERMST4L-G.
If a E PT/CN and fl E PCN, and PL-G(a) ---- a',pL--G(fl) = fl' thenPL--G(FL3(O~, fl)) = O/(fl').Examples: PL-G(a city) = A (dot)PL--G(a city of France) = A (OFa(R1)(dot))PL-c(the border between France and Germany) = THE (BETWEEN a(R1) (R2) (curve))PL-G (a line from Paris to Frankfurt) = A (FROM_TO(D1) (D3) (line))PL-G(the east of France) = THE (OFb(R1)(right))169Note that the term theeast can be formed by the rule S4L, but it cannot be translatedinto G because there is a type restriction in the definition of T4L-G (i.e., fl E PCN, buteast C PCN,).
This restriction prevents the translation of terms like the east as theseexpressions have no concrete graphical representation; however, the east of France canbe generated, translated into G and interpreted through the geometry as shown inSection 2.3.2.
In general, natural anguage expressions denoting abstract concepts donot have a graphical representation (i.e., the population of France), and although in thisgrammar we have focused on expressions that can be translated into G, the languagecan be extended with linguistic terms that would be interpreted only in the linguisticmodality.COMMON NOUNST5L-G.T7L-G.If a C PCN and fl E Ppp, or a E PCN, and fl c Ppp,, andflL_G(O~) ~-= O~', f lL-G(f l)  ~-- fl '  then PL-G(FL2(a,  fl)) ----- flt(OJ).Examples: pL-G(city of France) = OFa(R1)(dot)PL_G(east of France) = OFb(R1)(right)PL_G(border between France and Germany) = BETWEENa (R1) (R2)(curve)PL-G (intersection between the border between France and Germany anda line from Paris to Frankfurt) = BETWEEN b (THE (BETWEEN a(R1) (R2) (curve))) (A (FROM_TO(D1) (D3) (line))) (intersection)of PREPOSITIONAL PHRASEST6L-G.
If a E PT, and PL_a(Ol) = OJ, then PL-G(FL4(a)) is either OFa(OJ) orOrB (O~') .Examples: Pi_a(ofFrance) = OFa(R1)Pi_a(ofGermany) = OFD(R,2)between PREPOSITIONAL PHRASESFrom-to PREPOSITIONAL PHRASESIf a, fl E PT, and Pr -a (a )  ---- a ' ,pr -a( f l )  = fl' thenExamples: pr-a(F~(a, fl)) is either BETWEENa(O~')(fl') or BETWEENB(O~')(fl' )pr_a(between France and Germany) -- BETWEENa(R1) (R2)PL-G (between the border between France and Germany and a line fromParis to Frankfurt) = BETWEENB(THE(BETWEENa(R1)(R2)(curve) ) )(A(FROM_TO(D1)(D3) (line)))T8L-G.170If a, fl C PT, and PL-G(a) ---- a',PL-G(fl) = fl' then PL_G(FL6(OGfl)) =FROM_TO(O/) (fl ').Example: PL-a(from Paris to Frankfurt) = FROM_TO (D1) (D3)Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference ResolutionConstant of G:C~dotregionCRFvelineintersectionrightbiglie_atbe_in,zoneFigure 13Translation into L:pc-L(~)citycountryborderlineintersectioneastbiglie atbe toTranslation of constants of language G into L.2.4.2 Translation from G into L. In this section, the translation function PG-L is de-fined.
The translation of expressions of G into L are shown in Figures 13 and 14.
Notethat constants of G in Figure 13 translate into constants of L; however, the translationsshown in Figure 14 are more complex, since composite xpressions of G can translateinto basic or composite xpressions of L.The translation from G into L is shown below.
In rules T6G-L to T8G--L Q standsfor either the quantifier A or THE.SENTENCESTIG-L.
If a E E((e,t),t ) and fl E E(e,t ), and PG-L(O~) = Ol',PG-L(fl) = fl' thenPG-L(FG1 (a, fl)) = a'fl" (the concatenation), where t "  is the result ofreplacing the first verb in fl' with its third person singular presentform.Examples: PC-L( D1 (BEa (A (OFa(R1) (dot))))) = Paris is a city of FrancePG--L( R3 (be_in_zone (THE (OFB(R1) (right))))) = Germany is to theeast of FrancePC-L(A(region) (BEB(bix)) ) = a country is bigPG--L( D3 (lie3t (THE (BETWEEN b (THE (BETWEEN a (R1) (R3) (curve)))(A (FROM_TO(D1)(D3) (line)))(intersection))  ) ) =Saarbrficken lies at the intersection between the border between Franceand Germany and a line from Paris to FrankfurtExpression of G: 6~P \[P (dl ) \], ~P\[P( d2 ) \], ~P\[P ( d3 ) \]AP\[P(rl )\], kP\[P( r2 ) \],XP\[P( o ) \],~P)~xP()w\[x = y\])APAxP(x))~PAQ3x\[P(x) A Q(x)\]APAQ3y\[Vx\[P(x) ~ x = y\] A Q(y)\]Translation into L" pG-L(6)Paris, Frankfurt, Saarbrfdcken, respectivelyFrance, Germany, respectivelythe border between France and GermanybebeatheFigure 14Translation of some composite xpressions of G into constants of L.171Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2TRANSITIVE VERB PHRASEST2G-L.
If a E E(((e,t),t},(e,t} ) and fl E E((e,t),t), and fiG-L(a) = a', fiG-L(fl) = fl'then PG_L ( FGI ( OZ, fl) ) = a ' fl'.Examples: fiG-L( BEa (A (dot))) = be a cityfiG_L(be_in~zone (THE (OWb(R1)(right))) ) = be to the east of FranceATTRIBUTIVE VERB PHRASEST3G-L.
If a E E((e,t},(e,t) } and fl E E<e,t), and fiG_L(OZ) ~-- O/, fiG--L(fl) = fl/ thenf iG-L(Fc1(a, fl)) =Example:  fiG-L(BEb(big) ) = be bigTERMST4G-L.
If a C E((e,t),((e,t),t})), fl E E(e,t ), and fiG-L(Ol) = O~', fiG-L(fl) = fl' thenf iG-L(FGl(a,  fl)) = a"  fl', where a"  is a '  except in the case where a '  isa and the first word in fl begins with a vowel;here, a"  is an.Examples: fiG-L( A (dot)) = a cityfiG-L( A (OFa(R1)(dot)) ) = a city of FrancefG-L( THE (BETWEENa (R1) (R2) (curve))) = the border betweenFrance and Germanyf/G--L( A (FROM_TO (D1) (D3) (line))) = a line from Paris to FrankfurtfiG--L( THE (OFb(R1)(right)) ) = the east of FranceCOMMON NOUNSTSG-L.
If a C E((e,t),(e,t) } and fl C E(e,t), or a C E((((e,t),t),e),(e,t} ) andfl E E(((e,t), t),e), and PG-L(a) = a', fiG-L(fl) = fl' thenfiG-L(FGI( , 9))  =Examples: PG-L( O~a(R1)(dot) ) = city of FrancefiG-L(OFb(R1)(right) ) = east of FrancefiG-L( BETWEENa (R1) (R2) (curve)) = border between France andGermanyf/G-L( BETWEENb (THE(BETWEENa(R1)(R2)(curve)))(A(FROM_TO(D1)(D3)(line))) (intersection)) =intersection between the border between France and Germanyand a line from Paris to Frankfurtof PREPOSITIONAL PHRASEST6G-L.
If c~ E EI(e,t),t ) such that a is either Ri or Q(region) and PC-L(a) = a 'then PG_L(FG2(OI) ) = fiG_L(FG3(Oz) ) ~- of a'Examples: PG-L(OFa(R1) ) = of FrancefiG-L(OFb(R2) ) = of GermanyfiG--L(OG(A(region)) ) = of a country172Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutionbetween PREPOSITIONAL PHRASEST7G-L.
If a, fl C E{(e,t},t } such that(a) a, fl are either Ri or Q(region) or(b) a is either ci or Q(curve) and fl is either Li or Q(line),and pC-L(a) = a' ,pc-r( f l )  = fl' thenflG_L(FG4(O~ , fl) ) = between cr' and fl'.Examples: PG-L( BETWEENa (R1) (R2)) = between France and GermanyPG-L( BETWEENa (R1) (OFa(A(region))) ) = between France and acountryPG-L( BETWEENB (THE (BETWEEN a (R1) (R2) (curve)))(A (FROM_TO(D1) (D3) (l ine))))=between the border between France and Germany and a line fromParis to Frankfurtfrom-to PREPOSITIONAL PHRASEST8G-L.
If c~,fl E E(ie, t),t} such that a, fl are either Di or Q(dot) andpG-L(C~) ---- c~',pG-r(fl) = fl' then pa-L(Fcs(C~,fl)) ----from c~' to fl'.Example: Pc-r(FROM-TO(D1) (D3)) =frOm Paris to FrankfurtAs mentioned above, G is a very expressive language; not all expressions of Gcan be translated into expressions of L. Rules T lc -c  to T8G-L define the expressionsthat do have a translation.
Instances of expressions that cannot be translated are indi-vidual constants (e.g., dl), equality relations between individuals (e.g., dl -- d2), andconjunctions or disjunctions (e.g., dot(d1) A dot(d2)).
Other examples are expressions ofthe form &P\[P(el) V P(e2) V..-V P(en)\], where ei is an individual constant, which denotethe set of properties that one or another individual has.
However, this latter kind ofexpression could be translated if the expressiveness of L were augmented by allowingconjoined term phrases in the grammar.2.5 Translations between G and PThe translation functions PG-P and PP-C are defined in this section, concluding thepresentation of the theoretical elements of the system of multimodal representation.For each type of P there is a corresponding type in G and it is defined in terms of thefunctionfp_c as follows:1.2.fP-c (dot) = fP-C (line) = fP-C (curve) = fP-C (region) = fP-C (zone) =fp-c  (composite_region) = fP-C (doLset) = fp-c (line,set) = fP-C (map) = (e, t}.For any types a and b, fp-c((a, b)) = {fp-c(a),fp-c(b)).2.5.1 Translation from P into G. The translations of the constants of P into G arepresented in Figure 15.
In the following definitions, Q stands for either the quantifier173Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2Constant of P:.
dl,d2,d3 .
.
.
.
.11,12,13...Clr C2, C3r...rl/r2r Y3,...ZI~ Z2, Z3,...Translation into G:pp-G(a).XP\[P( dl ) \], ,XP\[P( d2 ) \], .XP\[P( d3 ) \] .
.
.
.,kP\[P(ll)\], ,~P\[P(12)\], ,XP\[P(13)\] .
.
.
.
)~P\[P(cl)\], )~P\[P(c2)\], .kP\[P(c3)\] .
.
.
.~P\[P(rl)\], ~P\[P(r2)\], ,~P\[P(r3)\] .
.
.
.AP\[P(zl )\], AP\[P(z2)\], ,'kP\[P(z3)\] .
.
.
.Figure 15Translation of constants of language P into G.A or THE.
The translat ion rules are as follows:CONSTANT \]3T1p-G.
If a C Cs where  s E {dot, line, curve, region, zone} then(a) pp-G(a)  is as shown in Figure 15.
(b) PP-C(fl) = Q(s).Examples: PP-G( ' )  = &P\[P(dl)\].e -G( / )  = )~P\[P(I1)\]PI'-G (\[iiiiii17::i)= )~P\[P(rl)\]\[ ............. iPI'-G (ii_....._i) = A(region )LINET2p_G.
If a, fl E Edot, and pp-G(a)  = a '  and PP-G(fl) = fl' thenPP-G (Fp1 (a, fl)) = Q(FROM_TO(a')(fl ')(l ine)).Example:  pp_G(~.~ ~: ' )  = A(FROM_TO (,kP\[P(dl)\])(~n\[P(d3)\])(line))CURVE 14T3p-G.
If a, fl C Eregio n such that a and fl are adjacent, and pp-G(a)  = (~' andPP-G( f l )  = fl '  then pp_G(Fp2(a, fl) ) = Q(BETWEENa(a')(f l ' )(curve) ).i ................. iI .......... , \ iExamplesl4:  pp_G(\[ ................. ~ .......... i) = THE(BETWEENa(AP\[P(rl)\])(AP\[P(r2)\])(curve))\[ .................. ipp_G(i ................... i) = THE(BETWEENa(/~P\[P(rl)\]) (A (region)) (curve))INTERSECTIONT4p_G.
If a C Ecurve and fl C Eline, and pp-G(a)  = a' and PP-G( f l )  = fl' thenpp_G(Fp3(a, fl) ) = Q(BETWEENb(a')(f l ')( intersection) ).13 Rule (b) allows the concrete xtension of a graphical object in P to be represented as its correspondingdenoting concept in G.14 These two example xpressions correspond to the abbreviated expressions in Examples 2 and 3,respectively, presented in Section 2.3.2.174Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference ResolutionRIGHTExample:)pp_GC......~...""'' )  = THE(BETWEEN b (THE(BETWEENa(/~P\[P(rl)\])( ~P\[P(r2)\])(curve) ) )(A (FROM_TO(,~P\[P(dl)l)( ~P\[P(d3)\])(line) ) )(intersection))T5p-G.
If a E Ere#o, and pp-G(a) = a' then pp_G(Fp4(O~)) = Q(OF b (right)(a')).Example: tiP-G(DOT INSIDE A REGION) = THE(OF b (right) (&P\[P(r3)\]))T6p-G.
If a C Eregion and flp-G(OZ) = OZ then pI,-G(Fp5(a)) = Q(oFa(a')(dot)).i - - .
.
.
,  r - .
, .
- .
.
,Example: pp-G(\[...'........)) = A(OFa()~P\[P(F1)\])(dot))COMPOSITE REGION (1) 15TTv-G.
If a, fl E Cresion such that a and/3 are adjacent, and PV-G(a) = AP\[a'\]and PP-G (fl) = /~P\[flq then PP-G (Ep6 (?G /3) ) = AP\[a' V fl'\].COMPOSITE REGION (2)TSp_G.
If a E Cr~gio, and/3 E Ecomposite_re,?on such that a and/3 are adjacent, andpp-G(a) = AP\[a'\] and PP-G(fl) = AP\[/3'\] thenpp-G(Fp6(a, /3) ) =/~P\[o/V/3'\].SET OF DOTST9p-G. (a) If a E Edot_set = 0 and fl C Cdot, and PP-G(fl) = ~P\[fl'\] thenPP-G ( Fp6 ( a, fl ) ) = ,~P\[fl'\].
(b) If a E Edot_set ?
0 and fl C C~ot, and pp-G(a)  = )~P\[a'\] andPP-G(fl) = ,~P\[fl'\] then pp_G(Fp6(a, fl)) = AP\[a' V fl'\].SET OF LINEST10p_G.
(a) If a E Eline~set = ~ and fl E Cline, and PP-G(fl) = &P\[fl'\] thenPP-G (Fp6 (oL, fl) ) = AP\[fl'\].
(b) If a c Eline_set ~ 0 and fl E Cline, and pv-G(a) = &Pa'\] andPP-G(fl) = AP\[fl'\] then pp-G(Fp6(a, fl)) = &P\[a' V fl'\].15 Examples of the application of the rules T7p_G to T11p_G are included in the translation of a mapshown in Figure 16, as explained below.175Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2r, )c3 r,...... ~ ....... c~..~,, c 1 "I dl !c1LP\[P(r/) v P(r2) v P(rj) v P(r4) v P(dt) v P(d2) v P(dz) v P(lt)\]Jr4 )?
,~.
r:(kP\[P(r,) v P(r2) v P(r3)\] v P(r4)\]...... ..r4 ,"":KP\[P(r.)I........................... ~; ~ ~:r, {kP\[P(r/) v P(r2) v P(rglKP\[P(r~)\] ............................. ",,'~'i:, r2r/ !okP\[P(dt) v P(d2) v P(d3)\]Q ?
?dl d,~\[P(d,)l XP\[P(d9 v P(a~)la3~\[P(&)l ~\[P(a,)l?
0, dj~P\[P(rl) V P(r2)\]~'\[P(h)I........... "~........ x .,.\rl \KP\[P(r/)\]F igure  16Translation i to G of a map.'ilXP\[P(r2)\]MAPT11p-G.
If a E EcompositeJegion, fl E Edot_set and 6 C Eline_set, andpp_G(a) = AP\[a'\], pP-G(fl) = /~P\[flt\],PP-G(5) = AP\[6'\], thenpp_G(Fp7(Oz, fl ~)) = AP\[a' V fl'V 6'\].An example of the translation of a map from P into G by rule T11I,-G is shownin Figure 16.
A map is interpreted in G as the set of properties that one or an-other graphical object in the base of the map has.
Computing and translating allpossible syntactic structures that can be generated in P on the basis of the overtgraphical symbols of the drawing is not required for the interpretation of the pic-ture in Figure 4.
The translation rules permit mapping a large number of syntacticstructures into G, and they can be used as necessary.
However, for the interpreta-tion of a map we will only translate a designated expression ~ of type map thatresults from parsing a full drawing in terms of the graphical objects in the base.176Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutionwill be called the map.
This criterion ensures that the drawing belongs to the mapmodality P. In addition, the graphical terms in the disjunction of the body of expres-sions of type map are used in G to define the interpretation domain Pbase.
Whenthis set is defined the semantic rules to interpret expressions of G can be evalu-ated.2.5.2 Translation from G into P. As mentioned in Section 1 in relation to the schemein Figure 3, the purpose of this translation is to draw the graphical symbols that arereferred to in G. To picture the full map, the only symbols that must be drawn are thesymbols of the base (Pbase), as emerging symbols do not have an independent pictorialrealization.
Thus, the only translations that have to be defined are the translations ofthe symbols contained in the expression ~(i.e., the map).
We also have to considerthat graphical terms occurring in expressions of G can have a graphical realization,which may be required for specific purposes.
For instance, if one needs to highlightthe region to the east of France the term of G denoting that region should be translatedand depicted in P. In the definition of the rules below, Q stands for either the quantifierA or  THE.CONSTANT 16T1G-p. (a) If a = AP\[P(a*)\]  and a* E Ce then pG-p(a) is the drawing of a*.
(b) If a = Q(s) where s c {dot, line, curve, region, zone} then PG-e(a) isthe drawing of whatever graphical object in Cs.Examples: "pG_p(  AP\[P( dl )\]) = ?pG_p(AP\[P( I1)\])  = /pG_p(AP\ [P( r l ) \ ] )  = ~pG_p(A(region))  = i ........ ,LINET2G-p.
If a, fl E E((e,t),t ) such that a, fl are either Di or Q(dot) ,  and PG-P(a) = a'and PG-P(fl) = fl' then pG_p(Q(FROM_TO(oz)(fl)(line))) = Fp1 (oz', fl').Example: PG-P( A(FROM_TO (AP\[P(dO\] ) (AP\[P(d3) \ ] ) ( l ine))  ) = ~:~'~CURVET3G_p.
If a, fl C E{(e,t),t ) such that a, fl are either ai or Q(region),  andPG-P(a) = ~' and PG-P(fl) = fl' thenpG_p(Q(BETWEENa(O~)( f l ) (curve)) )  = Fp2(OZ', fl').Examp les: '7 PG-P  ( THE(BETWEENa(/~P\[P(FI)\])( &P\[P(r2)\])(curve) ) ) = !
................. } ........... ii ................... iPG-P(THE(BETWEENa(AP\[P(rl)\]) (A (region)) ( curve) ) )  = i ................... i16 Rule (b) allows a graphical denoting concept in G to be represented in P as its concrete xtension.17 These two example xpressions correspond to the abbreviated expressions in Examples 2 and 3,respectively, presented in Section 2.3.2.177Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2INTERSECTIONT4G-p.RIGHTIf a, fl C E((e,t),t ) such that a is either ci or Q(curve) and fl is either Li orQ(line), and pG-p(a)  = a '  and PG-P(fl) = fl' thenpG_p(Q(BETWEENb(a)(fl)(intersection) ) ) = Fp3(a', fl').Example: PG-P( THE(BETWEEND (THE(BETWEENa(AP\[P(rl)\])(AP\[P(ra)\])(curve)))(A (FROM_TO (AP\[P(dl)\])(AP\[P(d3)\])(line)) )(intersection ) ) ) = ~.~...~ .........T5G_p.
If a E E((e,t),t) such that a is either Ri or Q(region), and f l a_p(a)  = a 'then pG_p(Q(OFb(right)(a))) = Fp4(a').Example: PG-P(THE(OFb(right)(AP\[P(r3)\])) ) =DOT INSIDE A REGIONT6G_p.
If a E E((e,t),t ) such that a is either Ri or Q(region), and pG_p(a)  = a /then pa_p(Q(OFa(a)(dot))) = Fps(a').Example: PG-P(A(OFa(AP\[P(rl)\])(dot)) ) = ...................COMPOSITE  REGION (1) 18T7G_p.
If a = ,\P\[P(a*)\] and fl = AP\[P(fl*)\] such that region(a*) andregion(fl*), and f lG_p(a) ~- a ' ,  f lG-P(fl) = fit, and a '  and fl' are adjacentthen pG_p(AP\[P(a*) A P(fl*)\]) = Fp6(a', fl').COMPOSITE REGION (2)T8G_p.
If a = AP\[P(a*)\] and fl = AP\[fl"\] = )~P\[P(fll) V P(fl2) V .
.
.
V P(fln)\] suchthat region(a*) and region(fli), and pG-p(a)  = a',pG-p(fl) = fl', and a 'and fl' are adjacent hen pG_p(,XP\[P(a*) V fin\] = Fp6(a," fl,).SET OF DOTST9G_p.
(a) If fl = AP\[P(fl*)\] such that dot(fl*) then PG-P(fl) = Fp6(O, fl)"(b) If a = AP\[a"\] -- AP\[P(al) V P(a2) V .
.
.
V P(an)\] and fl = AP\[P(fl*)\]such that dot(ai) and dot(fl*), and pG-p(a)  = a '  and PG-P(fl) = fl' thenpa_p(AP\[a"V P(fl*)\]) = Fp6(a', fl')18 Examples for rules T6G_p to T11G_p are included in Figure 16 above.178Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference ResolutionSET OF LINEST10G-p. (a) If fl = AP\[P(fl*)\] such that line(fl*) then PG-P(fl) = Fp6(O, fl).
(b) If a = AP\[a"\] = AP\[P(al) V P(a2) V. .
.
V P(an)\] and fl = AP\[P(fl*)\]such that line(ai) and line(fl*), and pG-p(O~) = OL' and PG-P( f l )  ~- fl'then pG-p( AP\[a" V P(fl*)\]) = Fp6(a', fl')MAPTllG_p.
If a C E((e,t},t ) = AP\[c~"\] = AP\[P(crl) V P(a2) V--" V P(oem)\],fl EE((e,t),t) = AP\[fl"\] = AP\[P(fll) V P(fl2) V ' "  V P(fln)\] and6 E E((e,t),t) = AP\[6"\] = AP\[P(61) V P(62) V. .
.
VP(6F)\] such thatregion(ai),dot(fli) and line(6i), and pG-p(a) = a',PG-P(fl) = fl' andpG-p(6) = 6' then PG-P(AP\[a" V fl" V 6"\]) = Fp7(a',fl',6').This completes the specification of the system of multimodal representation iFigure 3.
In this system, it is possible to express natural anguage and graphical infor-mation about maps and translate xpressions between these two modalities.
Naturallanguage can be seen as stating or imposing an interpretation upon graphical rep-resentations, making the graphics meaningful.
Alternatively, graphics can be seen asrepresenting knowledge in an effective fashion.
Expressions of the languages L andP can be translated through the interface language G in which both the semantics ofL and the geometrical structure of P can be represented and reasoned about in anintegrated fashion.The system provides solid semantic ground on which to state and resolve prob-lems of reference in multimodal scenarios.
The syntactic and semantic structures ofthe three languages permit expression and interpretation of information in each of themodalities, and the ability to systematically find correlated expressions in differentmodalities with the same semantic values.
As a consequence, it is possible to stateformally what it means to resolve a multimodal reference: according to this theory, toresolve a multimodal reference is to find the semantic value of an expression using ei-ther the information expressed in the modality or information expressed through othermodalities with the help of the translation functions.
In a fully interpreted multimodalsystem such as the one illustrated in this section, interpreting a multimodal messageis a matter of evaluating the multimodal expression.
However, as argued in Section 1,the relationship between individual constants input through different modalities mustbe established before multimodal expressions can be evaluated.
How to establish thisrelationship, the crucial part of the interpretation process, is illustrated in Section 3.3.
Resolution of Deictic Inference by Constraint SatisfactionIn the theory developed in Section 2, it was assumed that the translations of constantsof all categories from L into G and vice versa were available, and then multimodalinterpretation could be carried out; however, in the interpretation of multimodal mes-sages, natural anguage and graphics are input from different sources, and workingout the meaning of a multimodal message is by no means trivial.
As discussed inSection 1, resolving the references and inducing the translation between graphical andlinguistic terms can be thought of as the same problem.
Consider, for instance, readinga book with words and pictures: when the associations between textual and graphical179Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2symbols are realized by the reader, the message as a whole has been properly un-derstood.
However, it cannot be expected that such an association can be known inadvance.The process of inducing the translation functions for constants of G and L issimilar to the computer vision problem of interpreting drawings.
A related antecedentis the work on the logic of depiction (Reiter and Mackworth 1987) in which a logic forthe interpretation of maps, to be applied to computer vision and intelligent graphics,is developed.
It is argued that any adequate representation scheme for visual (andcomputer graphics) knowledge must make a distinction between knowledge of theimage (the geometry) and knowledge of the scene (its linguistic interpretation), andabout the relation between symbols at these two levels of representation; followingReiter and Mackworth (1987) we call this the depiction relation.
In Reiter's system,two sets of first-order logic representing the scene and the image are employed.
Theyexpress, respectively, the conceptual and geometrical knowledge about handdrawnsketch maps of geographical regions.
In the view adopted here, the depiction relationcorresponds to the translation function between constants of L and G as discussedabove.
An interpretation i Reiter's system is defined as a model, in the logical sense,of both sets of sentences and the depiction relation, and interpreting a drawing isa matter of finding all possible models of such sets of sentences.
The domain forthese models is determined by the set of individuals in the image and the sceneof the picture that is being interpreted.
Although computing the set of models of aset of first-order logical formulae is a very hard computational problem, the entitiesconstituting a drawing normally form a finite set, which is often small.
So, whether itis possible to compute the set of models of a given drawing is an empirical question.In particular, Reiter's system employs a constraint satisfaction algorithm to find allpossible interpretations of maps, and the output of his system is a set of labels forsuch as "river", "road", or "shore" for curves or chains, and "land region" or "waterregion" for areas.
As mentioned above, finding the translation functions between Gand L is a similar problem, with the same level of complexity.
In Section 3.1, wepresent a constraint satisfaction algorithm for the induction of the translation into Gof individual constants of L mentioned explicitly in the text of a multimodal message.We also show how composite terms of L can be translated into their correspondinggraphical expressions of G (and subsequently of P).A second consideration i this section is that working out the translation betweengraphical and linguistic individual constants uggests a method for generating natu-ral language xpressions that refer to graphical objects and configurations.
Note thatinducing the linguistic translation of a graphical term that has not been mentionedovertly in the textual part of a multimodal message is the same as generating a lin-guistic description for the object denoted by the corresponding graphical term: onceone knows the translation between individual constants of both of the modalities, thegeneration of multimodal descriptions can be achieved through the translation rules.For instance, in the map of Figure 4, if one points to the curve cl once the translationof individual constants has been found, the expression the border between France andGermany can be generated.
This strategy for producing natural anguage descriptionsis discussed further in Section 3.2.3.1 Resolution of Spatial DeixisFrom the point of view of our system, in interpreting multimodal messages like Fig-ures 1 and 2, what is given are expressions of L and expressions of P and what has tobe worked out is the composition pc_p?pL_c and the reciprocal function PG_L?PP_G .However, note that the expressions of P are the graphical symbols on the drawings180Pineda and Garza Multirnodal Reference Resolutionand parsing a drawing (an expression of type map) produces a syntactic structure ofP whose translation i to G is the expression ~(which we called the map).
Emergentobjects can also be represented in G as long as they can be produced from the basethrough syntactic rules of P and their translations into G. Consequently, expressions ofG that refer to graphical objects tand in a one-to-one relation with the correspondingobjects in P. Although, theoretically, expressions in G and P are different represen-tational objects, in actual interpretation processes they always come packed together.The relation between expressions of G and L, on the other hand, has to be workedout.
For this purpose we present an algorithm for establishing a relationship betweenthe individual constants of L and the graphical constants included in the expressionC (the map), which correspond to the interpretation domain Phase.
The algorithm forcomputing the translation function assigns a graphical constant to all proper namesovertly mentioned in the linguistic part of a multimodal message (e.g., the graphi-cal symbols dl, d2, d3, rl, and r2 to the linguistic onstants Paris, Saarbrficken, Frankfurt,France, and Germany, respectively).
The set of proper names appearing in a particularmultimodal message will be referred to as Names.
As the translations for linguistic on-stants of other types are given beforehand, once the translations for proper names areavailable, it is possible to find the graphical symbols and configurations that coreferwith composite natural anguage descriptions through the translation rules betweenL, G, and P. For instance, once the regions representing France and Germany havebeen identified, the term the border between France and Germany can be translated into anexpression of G, which denotes the corresponding curve, and also into the drawing ofthe curve in P, which denotes the border between France and Germany itself.
Here, itis important to highlight hat the translation for individual constants cannot normallybe found with the overt information expressed through the multimodal message only.For working out the interpretation f Figure 2, for instance, we need, in addition tothe text and graphics, knowledge about he geography of Europe and also knowledgeabout he interpretation conventions of maps.For the definition of the algorithm, a table representing the set of possible functionsfrom linguistics predicates (e.g., city, country, etc.)
to their corresponding graphicaltypes (e.g, dot, region, etc.)
is defined.
This table will be referred to as a function table.For each particular interpretation task, a set of appropriate function tables is definedaccording to the following rule: For each 6 E CcN of L and ~/ E Cle, tI of G such thatpL-c(6) = 6 ~, create a function table (Xe, Y~,) such that:X~ = {x E CTI\[\[x is a 6\]\] M is true and x E Names}Y~, = {y E Cei\[\[6'(y)\]\] M is true}where X~ and Y~ are not empty.
In case either of these two sets is empty no functiontable for the corresponding pair is defined.The function tables for our example are illustrated in Figure 17.Note that if only one cell of each column of a function table is filled in, a functionfrom proper names to graphical constants i defined.
Furthermore, if the result of thisprocess is a table in which only one cell of each row is also marked, the function isone-to-one.
Accordingly, if there are n names and m graphical objects, the first columnof a function table can be filled up in m different ways, the second in m - 1 differentways, and so on, until n graphical objects have been assigned.
As a consequence,each function table with n names and m graphical objects defines m!/(m -n)!
possibletranslation functions.
19In the example, (Xcity, Ydot) and (Xcountry, Yregion) define 6 and 1219 In general, if graphical objects can receive more than one name--e.g., asin the multimodal181Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2,/3alParis Saarbriicken Frankfurt(Xc~, Yao,)Figure 17Function tables for the message in Figure 2.00302Ol0 o X X Xnl n2 n3 NI F-Index 1010101Figure 18Set of functions associated with a function table.r4r3r2rlFrance Germany(Xcountet, Y~g,on)possible functions, respectively.
Let T~ be the set of possible translation functions forthe function table (X~, Y~,), and let r be the cross product of all T~ in an interpretationcontext (i.e., the set of possible translation models).
For our example, P = Zcity ?
Zcountry,where IF\] = 72.
This set contains 72 ordered pairs of functions, and each one representsa possible translation model for the mult imodal message.
Translation models can beenumerated by assigning a natural number to every cell in the array F. We give thefollowing enumeration for bidimensional translation models: let % = ~,  gj) be the nthtranslation model in F = Tx x Ty, where 0(n(\]F\] and~ C Tx, gj E Ty.
For every n, if mod\[Txl # 0 then i = (n - 1 rood \[Tx\]) + 1 and j = (n - 1 div \]Tx\]) + 1.
Similar expressionscan be defined for higher dimensions.To enumerate the set of possible functions from n names to m graphical objects weuse the following procedure: Let N be a list of names and O a list of graphical objects,and let F- INDEX be an n-digit string containing the n digits of a numeral in base m.Every string in F- INDEX codifies a total function in which the jth graphical object mjin O (where 0 < j (m) is assigned to the nith name in N by the rule F-INDEX(i)  = j. Theset of possible entries in F- INDEX codes the m" possible functions from n names tom graphical objects.
One-to-one functions are those in which no mj occurs more thanonce in a given value of F-INDEX.
The functions ought are the m!/ (m - n)!
one-to-onefunctions that result from enumerating in base m all possible values for F- INDEX from0 to rrl n - 1, and filtering out all numbers in which the same digit occurs more than oncein the enumeration order.
Consider the graphical illustration of the F- INDEX schemefor identifying the functions corresponding to a function table with three names andfour graphical objects in Figure 18.
This function table has 43 = 64 possible functionsout of which 4!/(4 - 3)!
= 24 are one-to-one.
The graphical object my in 0 is associatedto the name rli in N by marking the corresponding cell in the table, where j is placedin the corresponding cell of F-INDEX.
The string in F- INDEX is the numeral 000 ininterpretation scenarios related to the Hyperproof system (Barwise and Etchemendy 1994)--thenumber  of possible translation functions will be m n, where m is the number  of graphical objects and nis the number  of names.182Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolution0 0 0 003 03 X O~ X O~ X X Xo~ x o2 X 02 x 0201 X 01 X 01 X 010 0 X O0 O0 O0n~ n2 ns N nl n2 ns N nt n2 ns N nt n2 ns NI F-IndexlOI 1 I z l  \[ F-Index\[ 1 I 2 I 3 \[ I F-Indexl3121 I I I F-Indexl 3 \[ 313 IFigure 19Examples of function index.base 4 and represents the function in which the graphical object o0 is assigned to allthree names.Some examples of the enumeration of functions are shown, in Figure 19.
The firsttable shows function 12 (base 4), which is the smallest index for a one-to-one function;the second table shows function 123, which associates names nl, n2, and n3 to thegraphical objects ol, o2, and 03, respectively; the third table illustrates the function 321,which is the largest index for a total function in the set; and finally, the fourth tableillustrates the function 333, which is a constant function assigning the object 03 to allthree names.Armed with these concepts, we can define an algorithm for working out the in-terpretation of a multimodal message, as follows: Let message L be a sentence of L (thetextual part of the multimodal message), 0c an empty set of expressions of G, andP the set of possible translation models for message L. Then, for each 7/ E F assumethat 7i is a translation model for message L and include its translation message G under3'i in 0G--i.e., PL_G(messageL) = message G. If the semantic value of all expressions 0Gin relation to the geometrical domain Pbase is true, then Vi is a translation model formessageL; otherwise, exclude 7/from P. Once all translation models have been tested,check whether there is only one 7j in P. If so, that 7/ is the translation function; other-wise, select a new appropriate xpression of L (a general knowledge constraint) andinclude its translation into G in PG, and repeat he process until there is only one 7jin P.For our example, 4 translations out of the 72 7's in P will come out true for the firstcycle of the algorithm in which the multimodal message is used as the only constraint(Example 5 in Section 2.3), as shown in Figure 20.To continue with the algorithm, some knowledge of the geography of Europe isrequired.
For our problem the constraints relevant o interpreting the message areillustrated in Figure 21.The idea of the algorithm is simply to take constraints one at a time and producethe interpretation of the message incrementally.
Considering constraint 1 in Figure 21,the translation functions (2) and (4) in Figure 20 can be removed; the translation func-tion (3), in turn, can be ruled out either through constraints 2 or 3 (the interpretationof the translation of constraint 1 into G is shown in Example 4 in Section 2.3).
For theexample, only three cycles of the algorithm are required to rule out all but the correcttranslation model in F, which is the translation function (1) in Figure 20.This concludes the presentation of the procedure for interpreting proper namesdeictically in relation to a graphical context.
Although only the interpretation of thiskind of constant was required for our example, the interpretation of other kinds ofterms, e.g.
pronouns, can be carried out in the present framework.
Consider that tobe able to cope with multimodal messages in which pronouns were included in thetextual part, as in Figure 1, a more general definition of the language L would berequired, but in such an extension both proper names and pronouns would be con-183Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2(1)dededlXXXParis Saarbriicken Frankfurtr4rzr2rlXXFrance GermanyxxFrance Germany?XFrance GermanyXX(2)dededlXXParis Saarbriicken FrankfurtX?XParis Saarbriicken Frankfurtr4rzr2rl(3)43dedlr4r3r2rldel x(4) de\[ xdt  xParis Saarbriicken FrankfurtFigure 20Possible translation models without additional constraints.1.
Germany is to the east of France.2.
Paris is a city of France.3.
Frankfurt is a city of Germany.Figure 21General knowledge of geography.r4r3r2rlFrance Germanystants of category T in the grammar.
In the present framework, pronouns would beinterpreted along the lines of proper names.
For the definition of function tables, eachpronoun present in a multimodal text would be included in the set Names, and asa first approximation, it would be a member of the domain of all function tables;different instances of the same pronoun would be considered two different objectsin the interpretation process (e.g., heo, he1 .
.
.
.
.
etc.
), and the interpretation would beworked out as shown above.
It is also possible to think of a situation in which thereare two or more graphical objects with the same name; in this context, proper nameswould be considered kinds of pronouns, and from the point of view of L, a differentsubscripted constant of category T (nameo, name1 .
.
.
.  )
would be assigned to each suchgraphical object.
To differentiate these objects, alternative definite descriptions couldbe obtained through the translation from constants of P into expressions of G, as willbe argued in Section 3.2, and such descriptions could be used in the context of theparticular hetorical structures and communicative purposes of mult imodal messages.A further consideration is that not only the constants of category T in a grammar canbe used deictically; definite and indefinite descriptions can also be interpreted in thisway.
Consider that the textual part of the multimodal message in Figure 1 could havebeen John washed it, the man washed it, or even a man washed it and all three terms John,184Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutionthe man, and a man would have to be interpreted deictically in relation to the graphicalcontext.
To be able to deal with this latter situation, descriptions can be interpreteddeictically in our approach if terms of this kind are also included in the set Namesfor the construction of function tables.
More generally, our interpretation proceduredefines a function from terms into individuals of the world through the graphicalcontext.
This is because although function tables define translation models betweenlinguistic and graphical terms, graphical objects in P denote the corresponding indi-viduals in the world.
We can think of our deictic interpretation procedure as a specificimplementation for our graphical domain of Kaplan's operator DTHAT--in our sim-plified extensional language--which takes a term and maps it into an individual ofthe world in the interpretation context whenever the term is used deictically (Kaplan1978).The interpretation of proper names and definite descriptions has long been asource of interesting semantic problems.
Consider that linguistic terms serve to iden-tify individuals, and whenever they are used, the individual they denote should exist.However, as pointed out by Donnellan and commented on by Kaplan, "using a definitedescription referentially a speaker may say something true even though the descrip-tion correctly applies to nothing" (Kaplan 1978).
For example, suppose a bachelorenters a room accompanied by a woman who is misintroduced ashis wife.
Someonewho notices the woman's olicitous attention to the man, says His wife is kind to him.The speaker uses the description his wife to refer to the woman, which implies thatthe bachelor has a wife (!
), and nevertheless, what the speaker says is true.
Here, onemight be inclined to say that his wife applies to nothing, but if the woman is in thevisual field of the speaker, it would be more proper to say that his wife applies de-ictically to the woman.
If the expression she is kind to him had been used instead, orsimply, the speaker had pointed to the woman at the time the expression is kind to himwere uttered, the deictic nature of the reference would be easily revealed.
Accordingto Kaplan, whenever a description is used referentially (as opposed to attributively),describing can be taken as a form of pointing, and as he suggested, instead of takingthe sense of a description as the subject of a proposition, the sense is used only to fixthe denotation, which is then taken directly as the subject of the proposition.
Similarly,although a proper name is usually thought of as related to an individual (the bearer)in an intimate fashion through an interpretation function in model theory, and it is of-ten stated that proper names are related to the same individual through all world andtime indices (i.e., as rigid designators \[Kripke 1972\]), we would argue proper namescan be also interpreted eictically to fix a referent, which can then be taken directlyas the subject of a proposition.3.2 Generation of Natural Language DescriptionsThe multimodal representation scheme and the resolution of deictic inferences pre-sented above permit the generation of multimodal descriptions in a simple and sys-tematic fashion.
Once a multimodal representational system is fully defined, the gen-eration of graphical and linguistic expressions can be achieved irectly through thetranslation rules.
As the crucial piece of knowledge required for use of the translationrules is the translation model, the deictic inference required to identify an individualand the inference required to generate a description for such an individual are buttwo sides of the same coin.If a graphical object is pointed out on the screen, a number of natural anguagedescriptions to refer to it can be produced.
Several strategies for finding an appropri-ate description are available, depending on whether the object pointed at is in Phaseor whether it is an emergent object.
Another consideration is whether the object has185Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2a proper name or can be referred to either by a definite or an indefinite description.Suppose that a graphical cursor for pointing to graphical objects is available.
The cur-sor itself is modeled as a graphical object of type dot within the graphical domain.With this interactive device we can identify dots if the position of a dot in a drawingis the same as the position of the cursor, lines and curves if the cursor lies on the lineor the curve, and regions if the cursor is inside or on the border of a region.
Withthis device, we can select all basic or emergent graphical objects that are identified byan individual pointing act.
Basic objects will be identified irectly, and the emergentobjects elected by a pointing act will be those that can be produced by the grammarof P and satisfy the geometrical conditions associated with the cursor.
Objects iden-tified by a cursor will be terms of P that can be translated into G as proper names,definite descriptions, or indefinite descriptions.
To refer to a graphical object we canuse the following simple strategy: if a graphical object can be translated into L as aproper name, use the proper name; if the graphical object can be translated as a de-scription and it is the only one satisfying such a description, use a definite description;otherwise, use an indefinite description.Consider a pointing action in which the dot dl or the region rl is selected.
Thetranslations from P into G of these objects, according to rule TIp_G (a), are )~P\[P(dl)\]and )~P\[P(rl)\], respectively.
As these expressions can be translated into L as shownin Figure 14, these objects can be referred to in L as Paris and France, respectively.However, consider that as these objects are the concrete xtension of a number ofdenoting concepts of G, these objects can also be translated into G through rule TIp_G(b) as A/THE(dot), and A/THE(region), respectively, and they can be translated into Las a/the city and a/the country.
Another possible translation for the dot dl whenever itis produced by rule S4p and translated into G through T4p_G is A/THE(OFa(R1)(dot)),which in turn can be translated into L as a/the city of France.There may be constants of P that cannot be translated into L as proper names.Consider, for instance, the line 11 in Figure 4; the translation of this line into G is&P\[P(I1)\], but as can be seen in Figure 14, there is no proper name that correspondsto this expression i  L. However, this constant could be translated by rule TIp_G (b)as the denoting concepts A/THE(line).
As the line is also an emergent object hat canbe produced via the syntactic rule S2p, its translations according to rule T2p_G areA/THE(FROM_TO(D1)(D3)(line)); subsequently, such an object can be referred to in L asa/the line and a/the line from Paris to Frankfurt.
A similar example is the description ofthe curve cl, which is produced by rule S3p and can be translated into L through Gas a/the border between France and Germany.As mentioned in Section 1, the generation of descriptions i required within thecontext of specific rhetorical and intentional structures, uch as the activate structureof the WIP system, which employs Reiter and Dale's algorithm for the production ofdefinite descriptions on demand.
Our system can be used to support he generationof descriptions either definite or indefinite, and even pronouns used deictically, inmultimodal generation systems with a solid semantic base.
These descriptions couldbe used according to particular rhetorical and intentional structures related to specificapplication domains.
The advantage of such an approach is that the choice of the ex-pressions to be used in multimodal presentations could be made not only on the basisof predefined heuristics, but also on the basis of the semantic value of these expres-sions in the context of use.
In addition, the decision about what kind of knowledge isexpressed through either modality for the production of coordinated natural languageand graphical explanations could take into account not only the kind of heuristics thatare currently employed in systems like WIP and COMET, but also the expressivenessand effectiveness criteria of natural and graphical languages.186Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutiondiscourse referentstranslation conditionsgraphical conditionslinguistic onditionsFigure 22Components of the multimodal discourse representation structure.4.
Multimodal Discourse Representation TheoryThe ability to interpret individual multimodal messages i a prerequisite for interpret-ing sequences of multimodal messages occurring in the normal flow of interactiveconversations.
In the same sense that discourse theories, like DRT, are designed tointerpret sequences of sentences, it is desirable to have a theory in which sequencesof multimodal messages can be interpreted.
Such a theory would have to supportanaphoric and deictic resolution models in an integrated fashion, and would haveto be placed in a larger pragmatic setting in which intentions and presuppositionsare considered, and in which mechanisms to retrieve knowledge from memory arealso taken into account.
To work out such a theory is quite an ambitious goal; how-ever, in the same way that DRT focuses in internal structural processes that governanaphoric resolution, it is plausible to consider a multimodal discourse representationtheory (MDRT) to cope with the resolution of spatial deictic inferences.
In the sameway that DRT postulates discourse representation structures in which referents andconditions are introduced incrementally through the interpretation of the incomingnatural anguage discourse by means of the application of construction rules, it isplausible to conceive similar multimodal discourse representation structures (MDRS)whose referents and conditions would be introduced by modality-dependent con-struction rules acting upon the expressions of the corresponding modality.
In thesestructures, DRS conditions extracted from different modalities would be kept in sep-arate partitions, but discourse referents would be abstract objects common to thewhole MDRS.
In particular, MDRS's could help to specify accessibility relations be-tween anaphoric and deictic terms and their antecedents and interpretation context,imposing severe constraints on the possible interpretations, as is normal in DRT.The resolution process itself would be accomplished by incremental constraint sat-isfaction, as shown for deictic inferences.
In the rest of this section, we present aschematic picture of how an MDRS can be developed, and illustrate using the inter-pretation of the multimodal message in Figure 2.
Consider first the empty MDRS inFigure 22.The MDRS is a structure with four partitions; it extends traditional DRS withone partition for graphical conditions and another to store the translation modelsthat hold in a particular interpretation state.
The partition for linguistic conditionsis used as in normal DRS, and the top partition for referents includes a variablefor every individual that is referred to in the multimodal message in either of themodalities.
Figure 23 illustrates the initial state for the interpretation process of themultimodal message in Figure 2.
Graphical expressions of G (the map) are includedin the graphical section of the MDRS, and textual conditions, with the associatedtype information, are included in the linguistic section as in normal DRS.
A refer-187Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2Saarbriicken lies at the intersection betweenthe border between France and Germanyand a line from Paris to FrankfurtFigure 23Hi, n2, n3, n4, 115,01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 06, 07, 0,~,Saarbmicken(nt) city(nl)France(n2) country(n2)Germany(n~) country(n j)Paris(n4) ci(y(n4)Frankfurt(n~) city(ns)n~ lies at the intersection betweenthe border between : and n3 anda line from n?
to n5Initial MDRS for the interpretation of the multimodal message.ent is included in the corresponding partition for every individual that has been in-troduced through either modality, as referents are considered medium- independentabstractions.
In the same way that the order of processing of linguistic informationis not crucial for the definition of the linguistic conditions, we abstract over scan-ning considerations and assume that graphical expressions are introduced as a single"sentence.
"2?
Finally, the partition for the possible translation models is empty  at thisstage, as the coreference relation between text and graphics has not yet been estab-lished.The interpretation process by constraint satisfaction is il lustrated in Figure 24.Figure 24(a) illustrates the interpretation state after the first cycle of the constraintsatisfaction algorithm presented in Section 3.1 has been carried out.
In this state,the partition for the translation conditions contains the disjunction of the four pos-sible translation models that are consistent with the message, taking the messageitself as the only interpretation constraint.
Figure 24(b) illustrates the interpretationstate once the additional constraint hat Germany is to the east of France has beenconsidered, al The interpretation of the corresponding expression introduces two addi-tional discourse referents (n6 and n7), as the terms Germany and France in the textualpart of the message should be resolved anaphorical ly in relation to the context pre-viously built.
However,  this anaphoric resolution process is kept within the linguisticsection of the MDRS and should take into account he accessibility constraints betweenanaphor and antecedent, as commonly  done in DRT.
The result of this anaphoric in-ference is reflected in the equality conditions n6 =- n3 and n7 = n2.
The inclusionof the constraint Germany is to the east of France permits us to rule out two possibletranslation models, and the result of the second cycle of the constraint satisfaction20 We leave for further esearch whether the analysis of scanning protocols by means of eye-trackingtechniques can provide information for imposing additional constraints on accessibility relations andpossible translation models for the construction ofMDRS's.
An interesting antecedent for the definitionof such constraints can be found in Faraday and Sutcliffe (1998).21 How this constraint is selected isbeyond the scope of this paper and we only make the assumptionthat the symbols in the graphical and linguistic partitions of the MDRS form a part of the indexingscheme required to retrieve the information from memory.
For a prototype implementation, this kindof constraint could be provided by the human user directly.188Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutionhi, n2, n.~, n4, n3,Oh 02, 05, 04, 05, 06, 07, 08{nz=06, nz=ot, n~=02, n4=05, nz=ot}v{nl=06, n2=02, nj=ot, n~=05, nj=oT}vnx=06, n:,=ot, nj=02, n4=oz, nj=o~}vn1=06, nz=02, nj=01, n4r=or, ns=03}Saarbracken(m) city(m)France(n2) country(n2)Germany(n3) country(n j)Parts(n4) ci~(n4)Frankfurt(ns) city(ns)n~ lies at the intersection betweenthe border between 2 and ns anda line from n4 to n5hi, n2, nj, n4, n5,01~ 02~ 03~ 04, 05~ 06, 07~ 08n6, n7~lt=06, n2=ol, n~r=02, n~=os, nj=ol}Vnt=o6, nz~ot, nz=o2, nc=Oz, ns=o3}Saarbrficken(nl) city(nt)France(n2) countrT(ne)Germany(nj) country(n~)Paris(n4) city(m)Frankfio't(n3) city(n3)n~ lies at the intersection betweenthe border between 2 and n5 anda line from n~ to n3n6 is to the east of nzn6=n5, n;~n2(a) (b)Figure 24Interpretation fmultimodal message by constraint satisfaction.hi, n2, n3, n4, n j,01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 06, 07, 08n6, n7ns, n9Int=o6, n:~ol, ny=o~, n4r=06, ns=oz}o, iol .- o oSdarbracken(n3 cUy(nDFrance(nD country(nDGermany(ns) country(ns)Paris(n j) city(n4)Frankfurt(na) city(n3)n~ lies at the intersection betweenthe border between 2 and ns anda line from n~ to njn6 is to the east of n7hahn3, nz=n2n8 is a city of  n9risen4, rig=n2(?
)algorithm is reflected in the new state of the partition for translation conditions ofthe MDRS.
Figure 24(c) illustrates the final interpretation state in which the constraintthat Paris is a city of France has been considered and involves anaphoric and deicticresolution inferences as in the interpretation f the previous constraint.
As a result ofthis last constraint satisfaction cycle, only one translation model is left in the parti-tion for translation conditions and reflects the correct interpretation f the multimodalmessage.As a last example of the integrated anaphoric and deictic interpretation, consider asituation in which the natural language xpression It is big is mentioned after the mul-timodal message in Figure 2 has been interpreted, as illustrated in Figure 25.
In thissituation, the natural language information would enter into the partition for linguisticconditions and the pronoun it should be interpreted anaphorically in relation to thecontext currently provided by the MDRS and could resolve to Saarbriicken (althoughthere are several possibilities).
However, if the expression is supported by an overtgesture indicating the city of Paris, for instance, it would be deictic and its interpre-tation would have to be worked out with the same machinery; although in this lattersituation the translation relation between graphical and linguistic referents could beasserted irectly in the translation model as the gesture would render unnecessary theconstraint satisfaction part of the deictic inference.With this we conclude the presentation of our model for integrated eictic andanaphoric inferences.
The distinction between anaphora nd deixis is clearly demar-cated.
The antecedent for a pronoun, a proper name, or a description used anaphori-cally is provided by the discourse interpretation context, while the referent for a deicticpronoun, proper name, definite or indefinite description, or a demonstrative word likethis or that is taken from an intermediate r presentation f a nonlinguistic modalitysuch as the graphical context, and denotes an individual of the world directly, a viewthat is consistent with Kamp's distinction quoted in Section 1.189Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2It is bighi, n2~ ns, n4, n$,01, 02~ oj, 04, oj~ 06~ 07~ 08n6~ n7ha, n9n~=06, n2=ot, na=o2, n,=oa, nj=oT}Saarbru'cken(nl) city(n1)France(n2) country(n2)Germany(n j) country(nz)Paris(n,) city(n,)Franyurt(ns) city(n j)n j lies at the intersection betweenthe border between 2 and n3 anda line from n~ to nsn~ is to the east of  nrna=ns, nT=n2n8 is a city of n9ns=n4, rig=n2(a)Figure 25Integrated interpretation ofanaphora nd spatial deixis.hi ,  n2~ n3, n4, n j ,Ol, 02, O& 04, OJ, 06, 07~ 08n6, n7n8, n9, nlonl=oa, n2=ol, nJ=o2, n,=o& nj=o7}Saarbrficken(nl) city(n1)France(n2) country(n2)Germany(n3) country(n3)Paris(n,) city(n,)Frankfurt(n j) ciO~(ns)nl lies at the intersection betweenthe border between 2 and n3 anda line from n~ to n5na is to the east of  mn6=n3, nz=n2n8 is a city of  n9ns=n4, n9=n2nlo is bign l~n l(b)5.
ConclusionsIn this paper, we have presented a theory of representation a d interpretation formultimodal messages and a model for multimodal reference resolution.
The modelis based on the view that a modality is a code system on a medium that can becharacterized by well-defined syntax and semantics.
Multimodal interpretation is amatter of working out coreference relations between terms of different modalities.A central concern in articulating this theory is a clear characterization f how spatialdeictic reference isresolved and of how spatial deictic reference relates to the resolutionof anaphors in the normal flow of discourse.
A key theoretical ssumption we make isthat graphics are interpreted deictically, which is in opposition to the view graphicalrepresentations are interpreted anaphorically.The theoretical machinery for the definition of the syntax and semantics i formallydeveloped along the lines of Montague's semiotic program and its associated generaltheory of translation.
We have also illustrated an algorithm for finding the translationbetween texts and graphics, as messages in these modalities are introduced throughindependent input channels, and the translation between linguistic terms and their cor-responding raphical expressions must be induced ynamically.
We also suggested anextension of Kamp's DRT with multimodal discourse structures (MDRS).
This modeldefines an integrated interpretation model for multimodal messages while maintain-ing a clear demarcation between indexical and anaphoric inferential processes.
Naturallanguage terms, like proper names, pronouns, and descriptions can be interpreted inrelation to a model; however, these linguistic terms also admit anaphoric and deicticinterpretations.It is important to note that although we used a simplified extensional definition forthe semantics of natural language and graphical expressions, the system was carefully190Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference Resolutiondesigned to move smoothly into the intensional domain.
Consider that the exten-sional formulation used in the semantic definition of the graphical language can beeasily extended into an intensional one by changing the types of constants, predicates,and sentences from individuals, sets of individuals, and truth values, into individualconcepts, properties of individuals, and propositions, respectively.
This is achievedsimply by indexing the interpretation f expressions in terms of a possible world andtime, and all definitions presented above could be considered relative to the currentworld and time.
The move to the intensional domain would allow the definition ofthe interpretation f more comprehensive natural language segments.Intensionality is also relevant for the interpretation f graphical languages, in gen-eral, and for the definition of graphical and linguistic interactive systems, in particular.In interactive sessions with a computer graphic interface, the interaction states can beconsidered as possible worlds and the interpretation of graphical constants woulddepend on particular graphical states.
If a graphical object like a dot, for instance, ismoved from one position to another in an interactive transaction, we have the intuitionthat the object before and after the change is the same and denotes the same object ofthe world and yet not even its position, which one could think of as an essential prop-erty of a dot, is the same.
Accordingly, in the intensional setting the semantic value ofa graphical constant is not an individual but an individual concept.
Consider as wellthat the same graphical description can have different semantic values in different in-teractive states; for instance, the value of the expression position of dl will be a differentordered pair before and after dot dl is moved.
According to this, the interpretationof graphical operators at every index will be a function from sequences of graphicalobjects of the proper kind into graphical objects; however, unlike normal inguistic sit-uations in which different functions at different indices are assigned to operators andpredicates, the same function at every index has to be assigned to geometrical operatorsand predicates, as the geometry isalways the same.
Moving into the intensional settingis also relevant for our treatment of indexicals.
In our current approach, the interpreta-tion of a term used deictically is an individual of the world; in the intensional context,the interpretation f the same term in one particular interaction state will be the samein every state despite the fact that the description for referring to such an object in thestate in which it was selected might pick up a different individual in a different state.In the future, it would be interesting to deal with a more general fragment of nat-ural language that includes temporal expressions.
In the same way that the languageG provided a finite and small domain for the interpretation f linguistic spatial prepo-sitions, a similar language T for the interpretation f temporal prepositions could bedefined.
Temporal predicates and operators of this language would be interpreted interms of arithmetic functions like those presented, for instance, in Allen's temporallogic (Allen 1983).
In the same way that the constraint satisfaction algorithm for thedefinition of the translation between graphical and linguistic terms helped to solvedeictic inferences, a constraint satisfaction algorithm for resolving temporal deicticreferences in relation to a finite and small domain of actions and events is conceiv-able.
The definition for such a spatial and temporal indexical model could be quitehelpful for the implementation f natural anguage and graphics ystems in whichactions and events are mentioned in the course of interactive conversations.6.
ImplementationAlthough a prototype system for the theory presented in this paper has not been im-plemented, several aspects of the theory have been implemented in relation to simplersystems.
A simpler version of the strategy for multimodal interpretation f the scheme191Computational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 2in Figure 3 was implemented in the first version of the Graflog system (Pineda 1989).Several versions of the graphical anguage and its geometrical interpreter have beenimplemented in relation to different application domains (Morales 1994; Masse 1994;Santana 1999; Garza 1995) with BinProlog and the TCL/TK programming environ-ment.
The geometrical interpreter and the strategy of evaluating a set of geometricalconstraints incrementally in relation to a graphical domain was used in a later versionof Graflog to solve and generate graphical explanations of geometrical constraint sat-isfaction problems (Pineda 1992, 1998), and also for the definition of a model (not yetfully implemented) for the production of solids from orthogonal views of polyhedra(Garza and Pineda 1998).
We also implemented the scheme for enumerating functionsused in the definition of translation models for a semantic theorem-proving systemwritten in Prolog, in order to find the possible models satisfying logical theories aboutgraphical scenarios of the Hyperproof  system (Barwise and Etchemendy,1994).AcknowledgmentsThe authors gratefully acknowledgesupport o Luis Pineda from the Institutefor Applied Mathematics and Systems(IIMAS) at the National University ofMexico (UNAM) and Conacyt grant400316-5-27948-A and to Luis Pineda andGabriela Garza from the Institute forElectrical Research (IIE), Mexico.
We aregrateful also to the anonymous reviewers,and for helpful discussions with numerouspeople including James Allen, ElisabethAndrG Kees Van Deemter, John Lee, SergioSantana, Oliviero Stock, Thomas Rist, HenkZeevat, and very specially to Ewan Klein.ReferencesAllen, James.
1983.
Maintaining knowledgeabout temporal intervals.
Communicationsof the ACM.
26(11): 832-843.AndrG Elisabeth and Thomas Rist.
1994.Referring to world objects with text andpictures.
In Proceedings ofCOLING 94,pages 530-534.Barwise, Jon and John Etchemendy.
1994.Hyperproof.
CSLI.van Deemter, Kees and Stanley Peters,editors.
1995.
Semantic Ambiguity andUnderspecification.
CSLI Publications 1996,Stanford, CA.Dowty, David R., Robert E. Wall, andStanley Peters.
1985.
Introduction toMontague Semantics.
D. Reidel PublishingCompany, Dordrecht, Holland.Faraday, Pete and Alistair Sutcliffe.
1998.Providing advice for multimediadesigners.
In L. Pineda, T. Rist, and J. Lee,editors, Proceedings ofthe Workshop onInterpretation and Generation i  IntelligentMultimodal Systems and GraphicalReasonings in Expert Systems, pages 72-79,Fourth World Congress on ExpertSystems.
ITESM Mexico City Campus,Mexico.Feiner, Steven and Kathleen McKeown.1993.
Automating the generation ofcoordinated multimedia explanations.
InM.
Maybury, editor, Intelligent MultimediaInterfaces.
The MIT Press and AAAI Press,Menlo Park, CA, pages 117-239.Garza, Gabriela.
1995.
Sfntesis de Poliedrosa partir de sus Vistas Ortogonales: UnCaso de Estudio acerca del RazonamientoGr~fico.
M. Sc.
thesis, ITESM, CampusMorelos, Mexico.Garza, Gabriela and Luis Pineda.
1998.Synthesis of solid models of polyhedrafrom their orthogonal views using logicalrepresentations.
In Expert Systems withApplications.
Elsevier Science Ltd.,Volume 14, pages 91-108.Kamp, Hans.
1981.
A theory of truth andsemantic representation.
Formal Methods inthe Study of Language, 136: 277-322.Mathematical Centre Tracts.Kamp, Hans and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
FromDiscourse to Logic.
Kluwer AcademicPublisher, Dordrecht, Holland.Kaplan, David.
1978.
DTHAT.
Syntax andSemantics.
Volume 9, pages 383-399.Klein, Ewan and Luis Pineda.
1990.Semantics and graphical information.
InDiaper, Gilmore, Cockton, and Shackel,editors, Human-Computer Interaction,Interact'90.
IFIP, North-Holland,pages 485--491.Kripke, Saul.
1972.
Naming and Necessity.Basil Blackwell, Oxford.Lyons, John.
1968.
Introduction to TheoreticalLinguistics, Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.Mackinlay, Jock Douglas.
1987.
AutomaticDesign of Graphical Presentations.
Ph.D.thesis, Stanford University.
UniversityMicrofilms International.Mann, William C. and Sandra A.Thompson.
1988.
Rhetorical Structure192Pineda and Garza Multimodal Reference ResolutionTheory: Toward a functional theory oftext organization.
Text, 8(3): 243-281.Masse, J. Antonio.
1994.
Satisfacci6n deRestricciones por Referencia Simb61ica enDibujos Geom4tricos.
B. Sc.
thesis, ENEPArag6n, UNAM, Mexico.Maybury, Mark.
1993.
Planning multimediaexplanations using communicative acts.
InM.
Maybury, editor, Intelligent MultimediaInterfaces.
The MIT Press and AAAI Press,Menlo Park, CA, pages 59-74.Moore, Johanna.
1995.
Participating inExplanatory Dialogues: Interpreting andResponding to Questions.
The MIT Press,Cambridge.
A Bradford Book.Morales, Rafael.
1994.
PizarronesInteractivos Multimodales para laEnsefianza de Conceptos Matem~iticso, M.Sc.
thesis, ITESM, Campus Morelos,Mexico.Pineda, Luis.
1989.
Graflog: A Theory ofSemantics for Graphics with Applications toHuman-Computer Interaction and CADSystems.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofEdinburgh.Pineda, Luis.
1992.
Reference, synthesis andconstraint satisfaction.
Computer GraphicsForum.
11(3): 333-344.Pineda, Luis.
1998.
Graphical and linguisticdialogue for intelligent multimodalsystems.
In Expert Systems withApplications.
Elsevier Science Ltd.,Volume 14, pages 149-157.Poesio, Massimo.
1994.
DiscourseInterpretation and the Scope of Operators.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Rochester.Reiter, Ehud and Robert Dale.
1992.
A fastalgorithm for the generation of referringexpressions.
In Proceedings oftheCOLING'92.
Volume 1, pages 232-238,Nantes, France.Reiter, Raymond and Alan K. Mackworth.1987.
The logic of depiction.
TechnicalReports on Research in Biological andComputational Vision at the University ofToronto.
RCBV-TR-87-18.Rist, Thomas.
1996.
Current state of thereference model for intelligentmultimedia presentation systems.
Paperpresented in the workshop "Towards aStandard Reference Model for IntelligentPresentation Systems" at the 12thEuropean Conference on ArtificialIntelligence.
Budapest.
August.Santana, Sergio.
1999.
The Generation ofCoordinated Natural and GraphicalExplanations in Design Environments.
Ph.D.thesis, Universidad e Salford.Shamos, M. I.
1978.
Computational Geometry.Ph.D.
thesis, Yale University.
UniversityMicrofilms International.Steedman, Mark J.
1986.
Incrementalinterpretation i  dialogue.
ACORDProject Deliverable T2.4.
Department ofArtificial Intelligence and Centre forCognitive Science.
University ofEdinburgh.Stiny, G. 1975.
Pictorical and Formal Aspects ofShape Grammars.
Birkhauser Verlag, Basel.Stock, Oliviero and the AlFresco ProjectTeam.
1993.
AlFresco: Enjoying thecombination of natural anguageprocessing and hypermedia forinformation exploration.
In M. Maybury,edior, Intelligent Multimedia Interfaces.
TheMIT Press and AAAI Press, Menlo Park,CA, pages 197-224.Wahlster, Wolfgang.
1991.
User anddiscourse models for multimodalcommunication.
In J. W. Sullivan andS.
W. Tyler, editors, Intelligent UserInterfaces.
ACM Press, New York,pages 45-67.Wahlster, Wolfgang, Elisabeth AndrGWolfgang Finkler, Hans-Jfirgen Profitlich,and Thomas Rist.
1993.
Plan-basedintegration of natural anguage andgraphics generation.
Artificial Intelligence63: 387-427.Wittenburg, Kent.
1998.
Visual languageparsing: If I had a hammer .
.
.
.
In HarryBunt, Robbert-Jan Beun, and TijnBorghuis, editors, MultimodalHuman-Computer Communication: Systems,Techniques and Experiments.Springer-Verlag, pages 231-249.193
