Introduction to the Special Issue onFinite-State Methods in NLPLauri  Kar t tunewXerox Research Centre EuropeKemal  Of lazer tBilkent UniversityThe idea for this special issue came up during the preparations of the InternationalWorkshop on Finite-State Methods in Natural Language Processing, that was held atBilkent University in Ankara, Turkey in the summer of 1998.
The number of the sub-missions had exceeded our initial expectations and we were able to select quite a goodset of papers from those submitted.
Further, the workshop and the preceding tutorialby Kenneth Beesley, on finite-state methods, was attended by quite a large number ofparticipants.
This led us to believe that interest in the theory and applications of finite-state machinery was alive and well, and that some of the papers from this workshopalong with further additional submissions could make a very good special issue forthis journal.
The five papers in this issue are the result of this process.The last decade has seen a quite a substantial surge in the use of finite-state meth-ods in all aspects of natural anguage applications.
Fueled by the theoretical contribu-tions of Kaplan and Kay (1994), Mohri's recent contributions on the use of finite-statetechniques in various NLP problems (Mohri 1996, 1997), the success of finite-state ap-proaches especially in computational morphology, for example, Koskenniemi (1983),Karttunen (1983), and Karttunen, Kaplan, and Zaenen (1992), and, finally, the avail-ability of state-of-the-art tools for building and manipulating large-scale finite-statesystems (Karttunen 1993; Karttunen and Beesley 1992; Karttunen et al 1996; Mohri,Pereira, and Riley 1998; van Noord 1999), recent years have seen many successfulapplications of finite-state approaches in tagging, spell checking, information extrac-tion, parsing, speech recognition, and text-to-speech applications.
This is a remarkablecomeback considering that in the dawn of modern linguistics (Chomsky 1957), finite-state grammars were dismissed as fundamentally inadequate.
As a result, most of thework in computational linguistics in the past few decades has been focused on farmore powerful formalisms.Recent publications on finite-state technology include two collections of papers(Roche and Schabes 1997; Kornai 1999) with contributions covering a wide range ofthese topics.
This special issue, we hope, will add to these contributions.The five papers in this collection cover many aspects of finite-state theory andapplications.
The papers Treatment of Epsilon Moves in Subset Construction by van Noordand Incremental Construction of Minimal Acyclic Finite-State Automata nd Transducers byDaciuk, Watson, Watson, and Mihov, address two fundamental aspects in the con-struction of finite-state recognizers.
Van Noord presents results for various methodsfor producing a deterministic automaton with no epsilon transitions from a nondeter-ministic automaton with a large number of epsilon transitions, especially those result-ing from finite-state approximations of context-free and more powerful formalisms.Daciuk et al present a new method for constructing minimal, deterministic, acyclic6, chemin de Maupertuis, 38240, Meylan, Francet Bilkent, TR-06533, Ankara, TurkeyQ 2000 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 26, Number 1finite-state machines from a list of input strings, in a single pass.
Practical Experimentswith Regular Approximations of Context-free Languages by Nederhof, presents evaluationsof various regular approximation algorithms on actual grammars, providing insightsinto pros and cons of such algorithms.
Multitiered Nonlinear Morphology Using MultitapeFinite Automata: A Case Study on Semitic by Kiraz presents the formalism and implemen-tation of an approach for dealing with nonlinear phenomena found in the morphologyof semitic languages and compares his approach with other systems that have beenproposed for the same languages.
Finally, Learning Dependency Translation Models as Col-lections of Finite-State Head Transducers by Alshawi, Bangalore, and Douglas, presentsan application of the finite-state transducer f amework in a machine translation taskwhere weighted finite-state head transducers induced from a corpus of aligned par-allel sentences are used to recursively map headwords from the source to the targetlanguage.Our guest editorial board for this issue included Ken Beesley, Eric Brill, EvaEjerhed, George Kiraz, AndrOs Kornai, Mehryar Mohri, Mark-Jan Nederhof, Mar-tin Kay, Ron Kaplan, and Atro Voutilainen; we received additional help from manyother eviewers.
Julia Hirschberg, editor-in-chief o Computational Linguistics, helped usthrough all aspects of the selection process, guiding us around many intricate issues.We thank the guest editorial board, the additional reviewers, and Julia for their superbcontributions.
We hope you find this special issue well worth the effort.ReferencesChomsky, Noam.
1957.
Syntactic Structures.Mouton, The Hague.Kaplan, Ronald M. and Martin Kay.1994.Regular models of phonological rulesystems.
Computational Linguistics,20(3):331-378.Karttunen, Lauri.
1983.
KIMMO: A generalmorphological processor.
Texas LinguisticForum, 22:163-186.Karttunen, Lauri.
1993.
Finite-state l xiconcompiler.
Technical Report, XEROX PaloAlto Research Center, April.
Available athttp://www.xrce.xerox.com/research/mltt/fsSoft.Karttunen, Lauri and Kenneth.
R. Beesley.1992.
Two-level rule compiler.
TechnicalReport, XEROX Palo Alto ResearchCenter.
Available athttp://www.xrce.xerox.com/research/mltt/fsSoft.Karttunen, Lauri, Jean-Pierre Chanod,Gregory Grefenstette, and Anne Schiller.1996.
Regular expressions for languageengineering.
Natural Language Engineering,2(4):305-328.Karttunen, Lauri, Ronald M. Kaplan, andAnnie Zaenen.
1992.
Two-levelmorphology with composition.
InCOLING-92: Papers Presented tothe 15 th \[sic\]International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, volume 1, pages 141-148,Nantes, France.
International Committeeon Computational Linguistics.Kornai, AndrOs, editor.
1999.
Extented FiniteState Models of Language.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, England.Koskenniemi, Kimmo.
1983.
Two-levelmorphology: A general computationalmodel for word form recognition andproduction.
Publication No: 11,Department of General Linguistics,University of Helsinki.Mohri, Mehryar.
1996.
On some applicationsof finite-state automata heory to naturallanguage processing.
Natural LanguageEngineering, 2:1-20.Mohri, Mehryar.
1997.
Finite-statetransducers in language and speechprocessing.
Computational Linguistics,23(2):269-311, June.Mohri, Mehryar, Fernando C.N.
Pereira, andMichael Riley.
1998.
A rational design fora weighted finite-state transducer library.In Derick Wood and Sheng Yu, editors,Automata Implementation.
Lecture Notes inComputer Science, Number 1436.Springer Verlag, pages 144-158.Roche, Emmanuel and Yves Schabes,editors.
1997.
Finite-State LanguageProcessing.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.van Noord, Gertjan.
1999.
FSA6: Finite stateautomata utilities (version 6) manual.Available at http://odur.let.rug.nl/van-noord / Fsa /Manual.
