A Reformulation of Rule 2 of CenteringTheoryRodger Kibble*Goldsmiths CollegeThe standard preference ordering on the well-known centering transitions Continue, Retain, Shiftis argued to be unmotivated: a partial, context-dependent ordering emerges from the interactionbetween principles dubbed cohesion (maintaining the same center of attention) and salience(realizing the center of attention as the most prominent NP).
A new formulation of Rule 2 ofcentering theory is proposed that incorporates these principles as well as a streamlined versionof Strube and Hahn's (1999) notion 0fcheapness.
It is argued that this formulation provides anatural way to handle "topic switches" that appear to violate the canonical preference ordering.1.
What Is Centering?Centering theory (henceforth CT) is a theory of local discourse structure that modelsthe interaction of referential continuity and salience of discourse ntities in the internalorganization of a text.
The main assumptions of the theory as presented by Grosz, Joshi,and Weinstein (1995) (GJW) and Walker, Joshi, and Prince (1998) can be summarizedas follows:...For each utterance in a discourse there is precisely one entity that is thecenter of attention.There is a preference, formalized as Rule 2, (1) for consecutive utteranceswithin a discourse segment o keep the same entity as the center ofattention, and (2) for the entity most prominently realized in anutterance to be identified as the center of attention.The center of attention is the entity that is most likely to bepronominalized: this preference is formalized as Rule 1.These principles are more precisely explicated in Section 2.An entity may become prominent as a referential link between successive utter-ances, or it may deliberately be made prominent, for example, through a less obliquegrammatical role or by being mentioned early in a sentence.
An attraction for nat-ural language processing practitioners has been that CT's predictions are based oneasily computable structural properties of utterances rather than costly content-basedreasoning.Standard expositions of CT hold that there is a total preference ordering over typesof transitions between utterances defined in terms of the tests mentioned in Point 2above and formulated as Rule 2 in Table 1.
I argue in what follows that the standard* Department ofMathematical and Computing Sciences, Goldsmiths College, University of London,London SE14 6NW, UK.
E-maih R.Kibble@gold.ac.uk@ 2001 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4Table 1Centering constraints and rules (adapted from Walker, Joshi, and Prince \[1998,pages 3-4\]).ConstraintsC1.
There is precisely one Cb.C2.
Every element of Cf(Un) must be realized in U,.C3.
Cb(U,) is the highest-ranked lement of Cf(Un-1) that is realized in Un.RulesR1.
If some element of Cf(Un_l) is realized as a pronoun in U,, then so is Cb(Un).R2.
Continue is preferred over Retain, which is preferred over Smooth Shift,which is preferred over Rough Shift.account of CT both over- and undergenerates.
On the one hand, the stipulated prefer-ence for Retain over Smooth Shift has not been confirmed by empirical evidence, andcannot be naturally incorporated in standard generation architectures.
On the otherhand, there is no mechanism within the theory to predict specific ases where a Retainor a Shift may be preferred over a Continue transition, as in the Retain-Shift patternthat has been argued to signal the introduction of a new discourse topic (Brennan,Friedman, and Pollard 1987 \[BFP\]; Strube and Hahn 1999).
I aim to overcome thesedifficulties under an analysis that gives a partial ordering of the classic transitions,incorporating a "streamlined" version of Strube and Hahn's notion of "cheapness" tohandle the Retain-Shift pattern.
I do not claim to offer new empirical results; the aimis rather to consolidate existing results in a more economic and principled formulationof Rule 2 itself.Finally, given that CT addresses local rather than global coherence, we need toconsider the question, How local is "local"?
Two possible notions of local coherenceare (1) overall coherence of a multi-utterance discourse segment (as in the originalGJW model, which stipulates preferences for coherent sequences of transitions)--thishas been called "not psychologically plausible from a speaker's perspective" (Brennan1998, page 231); (2) coherence between immediately adjacent utterances, as in the BFPalgorithm, which replaces the original preference for sequences of transitions with apreference ordering on transitions.
In this paper, I explore an intermediate positionput forward by Strube and Hahn (1999), which is a preference over pairs of transitionsor triples of utterances, which may or may not cross segment boundaries.2.
Transition RulesThe main claims of CT are formalized in terms of Cb, the backward-looking center;Cf, a list of forward-looking centers for each utterance Un; and Cp or preferred center,the most salient candidate for subsequent utterances.
Cf(Un) is a partial ordering onthe entities mentioned (or "realized") in Un, ranked by grammatical role; for example,SUBJ > DIR-OBJ > INDIR-OBJ > COMP(S) > ADJUNCT(S).
Cb(Un) is defined as thehighest-ranked member of Cf(Un-1) that is realized in U,.
Cp(U,) is the highest-rankedmember of Cf(Un), and is predicted to be Cb(Un+l).The ranking of Cf by grammatical role has been widely adopted in the litera-ture following BFE though it is questioned by some researchers including Strube and580Kibble Rule 2 of Centering TheoryTable 2Centering transitions (Walker, Joshi, and Prince 1998, page 6).Cb(Un) = Cb(Un_l) Cb(Un) 76 Cb(Un_l)or Cb(Un-1) undefinedCb(Un) = Cp(Un) Continue Smooth ShiftCb(Un) # Cp(Un) Retain Rough ShiftHahn (1999), who propose a ranking based on "functional information structure," acombination of degrees of "givenness" and left-to-right order.
They note that the BFPranking is not appropriate for German, which they say is a free-word-order language(page 310); more accurately, relative order of NPs within a clause is not determinedby grammatical role to the extent hat it is in English.
For the purposes of this pa-per, there is no need to commit to either BFP's or Strube and Hahn's rankings, orto go into the details of the latter's "functional centering" model, as both make thesame predictions for the examples considered.
Strube and Hahn themselves (page 334)state that the grammatical nd functional analyses achieved consistent results for allexamples in GJW.
I adopt the ranking by grammatical role for purposes of exposi-tion.2.1 "Salience" and "Cohesion"Transitions are defined in terms of two tests: whether the Cb stays the same (Cb(Un) =Cb(U,~-I)), and whether the Cb is realized as the most prominent NP (grammaticallyor otherwise): Cb(Un) = Cp(Un).
For the sake of convenience and concision, I refer tothe first of these tests as cohesion and the second as salience; it is important to keepin mind that I use the terms in these defined and limited ways, and to disregard(for the time being) other uses of the terms in the literature.
There are four possiblecombinations, which are displayed in Table 2, resulting in the named transitions Con-tinue, Retain, Smooth Shift, and Rough Shift.
The optimal case, where both salienceand cohesion obtain, is Continue; the least preferred is Rough Shift.
Walker, Joshi,and Prince (1998), following BFP, stipulate that Retain is preferred over Smooth Shift,which implies that cohesion is a stronger requirement than salience.
However, corpusanalyses reported by di Eugenio (1998, page 127), Hurewitz (1998, pages 280ff.
), andPassoneau (1998, pages 338ff.)
do not support his claim.
In fact, all these researchersfound a higher percentage of Smooth Shifts than Retains.
In a spoken corpus, Pas-soneau found more Shifts than Continues.A preponderance of Shifts over Continues may reflect he domain and content of atext rather than the author's organizational goals.
In fact, it can be seen that sequencesof Smooth Shifts are rather natural in certain kinds of narrative or descriptive texts;see Example 1 (adapted from a pharmaceutical leaflet).Example 1a.
The name of your medicine / is Compound X.b.
Iti contains budesonideJ.
(Continue)581Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4c.
Thisj is one of a group of medicines called corticosteroids k.(Smooth Shift)d. Thesek can help to relieve the symptoms of hay fever or rhinitis.
(Smooth Shift)This does not appear to be an incoherent text, but there is no way that the contentcould be rearranged to turn the Shifts into Continues.
However, we can see that theauthor has maintained centering coherence as far as the content allows.We may conclude that not only does corpus evidence fail to confirm the canonicalordering, but in fact corpus analysis itself is not sufficient o evaluate the claims ofCT without taking into account he underlying semantic ontent of a text.
That is,statistics about the relative frequency of occurrences of different ransition types donot in themselves tell us much about which transitions are preferred in particularsituations ince they do not take account of the choices available to an author.
1 Amore promising approach is that of Brennan (1998), who gave subjects the controllednarrative task of providing a running commentary on a video recording of a basketballgame, and used the videotape itself to construct a "propositional script" listing thesequence of events and their participants, and identifying players who were likely tocontinue as the center of attention over a sequence of incidents.2.2 Rule 2 Applied to GenerationReiter (1994) claimed that existing generation systems converged on a "consensus,"generic natural anguage generation (NLG) architecture consisting of the followingtasks:?
Content determination/text planning: deciding the content of a messageand organizing the component propositions into a text tree;?
Sentence planning: aggregating propositions into clausal units andchoosing lexical items corresponding to concepts in the knowledge base,including referring expressions;?
Linguistic realization: taking care of surface details such as agreementand orthography.I have argued elsewhere (Kibble 1999) that if CT is to be implemented in an NLGsystem, the principles I call "salience" and "cohesion" belong to different tasks withinthis scheme: "salience" is a matter for sentence planning, choosing a verb form orsome other construction that makes the Cb prominent within a clause or sentence,while "cohesion"---ordering propositions in a text to maintain referential continuity--is a matter for text planning.
So there may be no single point in the generation processwhere the system has a choice between Retain and Shift, for instance: rather, the termsretain and shift describe the composite results of choices made at different stages of thegeneration task.
This point is discussed in more detail in the cited paper.
Referentialcontinuity as determined by CT is only one of a number of factors determining thefluency and acceptability of generated text; see Kibble and Power (2000) for furtherdiscussion.1 Corpus tudies have also tended to be flawed by imprecise notions of "coreference'; s evan Deemterand Kibble (2000).582Kibble Rule 2 of Centering Theory3.
The "Cheapness" PrincipleThe Cp or preferred center has a dual role in CT: in optimal transitions, where Cp =Cb, it highlights the center of attention of the current utterance, and it is also intendedto signal the center of attention of the following utterance:The preferred center epresents a prediction about the Cb of the follow-ing utterance.
(Walker, Joshi, and Prince 1998, page 3)It turns out that this informally stated aspect of the Cp is not actually made explicit inthe rules and constraints of CT: transitions /Un, U~+I) are defined in terms of the Cpof U~+I and the Cbs of Un and Un+l, but no definition mentions the Cp of U~.
Strubeand Hahn's "cheapness" principle can be seen as the "missing link" of CT, makingexplicit the prediction represented by the Cp.
They question the canonical ordering oftransitions, partly on the grounds that this ordering fails to predict the Retain-Shiftpattern that has been claimed by some researchers to signal the introduction of a new"discourse topic."
The principle of "cheapness" is intended to capture the intuitionthat a Retain is naturally followed by a Smooth Shift and is defined as follows:A transition pair is cheap if the backward-looking center of the currentutterance is correctly predicted by the preferred center of the immedi-ately preceding utterance, i.e., Cb(Ui) = Cp(Ui_l)... (Strube and Hahn1999, page 332)Cheapness is claimed to minimize the inferential costs of processing sequences ofutterances, and is proposed as a constraint on pairs of successive transitions as areplacement for the canonical orderings in Rule 2, which is restated as follows:Rule 2 ~Cheap transition pairs are preferred over expensive ones.
(Strube andHahn 1999, page 334)This claim is supported by analysis of a variety of German texts.
It turns out thatalthough cheapness appears to be a sensible principle, it does not neatly partition thetypes of transition pairs; in particular, this principle does not necessarily hold of allRetain-Smooth Shift sequences.
Strube and Hahn propose to rectify this by redefiningthe transitions, with an additional test Cp(Ui) = Cp(Ui-1) to subdivide Continue andSmooth Shift, resulting in new "expensive" transitions Exp-Continue and Exp-SmoothShift.
Strube and Hahn (1999, page 333) provide a table (not reproduced here) of 36transition pairs, labeled as "cheap," expensive," or "-" (not occurring).In fact, it seems that the way this principle is presented is unnecessarily compli-cated, and on closer examination it appears to be rather weak.
First, if cheapness i theonly criterion considered, CT would have nothing to say about texts such as Example1 that have no cheap transition pairs.
So it appears unwise to simply abandon thecanonical ordering altogether.
Second, the constraint on transition pairs can be statedmore economically in terms of triples of utterances.
If it is the preferred case that forevery transition pair in a discourse IIUn_l, Unl, IUn, Unq-lll, Cb(Un+l) = Cp(U,z), thenthis equation also holds for each triple IUn_l, Un, U~+I/and vice versa.
Note also thatif Cp(Un) is mentioned at all in Un+l, it is by definition the Cb of Un+l; so the require-ment can be stated more simply as Cp(Un) E Cf(Un+l).
I propose that the cheapnessprinciple should supplement rather than replace the principles of salience and cohesion.583Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4A consequence of this is that the choice of Cp for an utterance Un has to look backwardto/-/,,_1 (to identify the current Cb) and forward to Un+l.
In general, the question ofwhich principles take precedence in cases of conflict cannot be settled in this shortpaper, but I adopt the following working hypothesis: the optimal case will be the onewhere both cheapness and salience obtain; the normal case will be the one where atleast one of them is satisfied, which may be at the expense of cohesion between thecurrent and the subsequent u terance.
If the Cp is part of a "cheap" sequence, correctlypredicting the upcoming Cb, but does not identify the current Cb, this will normallybe signaled by a nonanaphoric nominal form.Example 2 (adapted from GJW, page 217) illustrates the Retain-Shift pattern,though it does not provide unambiguous support for the proposal sketched above.The sequence (c-d-e) seems preferable to (c-d'-e') even though the latter apparentlyscores better according to the canonical ranking.
In both sequences, cheapness i  satis-fied wherever it is applicable, but the apparently ess preferred sequence scores higheron salience and cohesion.Example 2a.
John has had trouble arranging his vacation.b.
He cannot find anyone to take over his responsibilities.c.
He called up Mike yesterday to work out a plan.(Continue)d.
Mike has annoyed him a lot recently.(Retain)e.
He called John at 5 A.M. on Friday last week.
(Smooth Shift)d'.
He has been pretty annoyed with Mike recently.(Continue)ft.
He got a call from him at 5 A.M. on Friday last week.
(Continue)From an interpretation perspective, we can address this apparent discrepancy bylooking again at the interaction between Rule 1 and Rule 2.
Rule 1 states that ifanything is pronominalized, the Cb will be; so in (d), for example, Mike cannot beinterpreted as the Cb because the sentence contains a pronoun in addition.
So in factthe Retain transition (c-d) is maximally coherent given the options available to thereader: salience is not tested for because the Cp is not a pronoun, but both cohesionand cheapness obtain.
This choice means that Mike is predicted to be the new Cb of (e)so cohesion will be unavailable for (d-e).
In general, it appears that cheapness i mostlikely to be an available option--the xpectation that the current Cp will be the nextCb is generally plausible--but salience and cohesion are not always available.
Thus,if we take account of the options available to a reader at each stage, both versions ofthe discourse conform as far as possible to the principles of cohesion, salience, andcheapness.From a production perspective the question remains, Why has the author chosenthe "lumpy" sequence (c-d-e) rather than a "smooth" sequence of Continues?
Somepossible answers are these: the preferred sequence uses simple, canonical active verbforms, which may be easier to process; the sequence of clause-initial pronouns He...He..., and so on, in the variant sequence makes it appear "flat" and uninteresting;584Kibble Rule 2 of Centering TheoryTable 3Reanalysis of Example 2 (Cb in bold).Co Sal Cha.
John has had trouble arranging his vacation.
- -  - -  Yb.
He cannot find anyone to take over his responsibilities.
Y Y Yc.
He called up Mike yesterday to work out a plan.
Y Y Yd.
Mike has annoyed him a lot recently.
Y N Ye.
He called John at 5 A.M. on Friday last week.
N Y - -d'.
He has been pretty annoyed with Mike recently.
Y Y Ye'.
He got a call from him at 5 A.M. on Friday last week.
Y y mthe author is realizing a communicative goal to say something about John in (a-b-c)and something about Mike in (d-e).
The bottom line is that from a generation point ofview, centering is not enough.
Maximizing coherent transitions will not in itself produceoptimally fluent and readable text; instead, a number of other factors have to be takeninto consideration i  order to minimize the inferential load on the reader, hold thereader's interest, and reflect communicative intentions.Both versions of the text are preferable to one where the last two sentences havedifferent subjects: for example, (d) followed by (e")John .
.
.
.
The intuition is that oncethe topic has changed, the discourse must stay with the new topic rather than "flip-flop" between two entities.
This intuition can be sharpened by noting that (d-e) form anidentifiable mbedded iscourse segment, whose subject matter is not directly relatedto the main issue of John's vacation plans.
I conjecture that absence of salience is notpenalized in segment-initial utterances as long as cheapness holds.The following restatement of Rule 2 is intended to bring out the Janus-like natureof CT, simultaneously ooking backward and forward:Rule 2"Cohesion: Prefer transitions (U,-1, U,} where:Cb(U,) is defined andif Cb(LIn_l) is defined, Cb(Un) = Cb(Un-1).Salience: Prefer transitions (Un-1, Un} where Cp(Un) = Cb(Un)\[if Cp(U~) is pronominal\]Cheapness: Prefer sequences (Un-1, U~, L/~+I} where Cp(Un) ?Cf(U~+I)Conditions:1.
In case of conflicts, the following ordering ishypothesized: (cheapness \]salience} >cohesion2.
If U, is segment-initial, salience is not requiredif cheapness holds.Table 3 illustrates an analysis of Example 2 in terms of the interacting constraints.Note that the absence of salience against (d) is not penalized for reasons explainedabove.585Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4This example suggests a need for optimization over sequences of more than twoutterances.
In a sequence Continue-Retain-Smooth Shift, the Shift is predicted in itslocal context but the Retain is not; although Retain is a cheap transition followingContinue, another Continue would be cheap as well.
The Retain is motivated as itallows a new topic to be introduced with a "cheap" Smooth Shift, and so we needto evaluate the whole sequence Continue-Retain-Smooth Shift.
This illustrates thatwhile a sequence that conforms to the cheapness principle may reduce the cognitiveload on the hearer, it can actually increase the load on the speaker owing to the needto plan ahead beyond the current utterance.
In fact, the proposals outlined here donot entail that speakers must plan the entire content and structure of sentences so farin advance.
Rather, they entail that a speaker knows when uttering Un that he or sheintends to express a particular fact about a particular entity E in utterance U,,+2; andit entails that the speaker would do well to prepare the hearer for this by making Eprominent in utterance Un+l.
The hypothesis i that speakers will make a degree ofeffort o help hearers to process their utterances smoothly, rather than opportunisticallyplanning and realizing sentences one by one, but not to the extent of planning all thetransitions in a discourse segment in advance of uttering anything.4.
ConclusionComparison of the standard preference ordering for centering transitions and Strubeand Hahn's (1999) variant has established the following points:1.
The strict ordering of canonical transitions assumed by GJW and others has not(so far) been confirmed by corpus evidence and does not naturally fit into generationarchitectures.
There is no mechanism topredict he Retain-Shift sequence to introducea new discourse topic.2.
By reducing Rule 2 to a requirement for cheap transition pairs, Strube and Hahnweaken the predictive power of the theory while complicating the apparatus with twoadditional transitions and a 36-position table of cheap versus expensive pairs.I have argued that in fact we can dispense with not only Strube and Hahn's twonew transition types but the four old ones as well, retaining them only for descriptiveconvenience.
The various different transitions can be seen to emerge in a partial, context-dependent ordering as a result of the interaction of cohesion, salience, and cheapness.Following established practice in empirical work such as that discussed in Section2.1, centering coherence is applied to inter- as well as intrasegmental ransitions.
Themodified proposal is still weaker than GJW's original formulation as a wider varietyof texts is tolerated.
This underscores the fact that referential continuity as specifiedby CT may play an essential part in computing the overall coherence of utterancetransitions but it is only one of the determinants of discourse structure.AcknowledgmentsThanks to Richard Power for helpfuldiscussions, and to the anonymousreviewers for their perceptive comments.This work was funded in part by the UKEPSRC under grant references GR/L51126and GR/L77102.ReferencesBrennan, Susan E. 1998.
Centering as apsychological resource for achieving jointreference in spontaneous discourse.
InMarilyn Walker, Aravind K. Joshi, andEllen Prince, editors, Centering Theory inDiscourse.
Clarendon Press, Oxford, pages227-249.Brennan, Susan E., Marilyn WalkerFriedman, and Carl Pollard.
1987.
Acentering approach to pronouns.
InProceedings ofthe 25th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,pages 155-162.di Eugenio, Barbara.
1998.
Centering inItalian.
In Marilyn Walker and Aravind K.586Kibble Rule 2 of Centering TheoryJoshi, and Ellen Prince, editors, CenteringTheory in Discourse.
Clarendon Press,Oxford, pages 115-137.Grosz, Barbara J., Aravind K. Joshi, andScott Weinstein.
1995.
Centering: Aframework for modeling the localcoherence of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 21(2):203-225.Hurewitz, Felicia.
1998.
A quantitative lookat discourse coherence.
In Marilyn Walker,Aravind K. Joshi, and Ellen Prince,editors, Centering Theory in Discourse.Clarendon Press, Oxford, pages 273-291.Kibble, Rodger J.
1999.
Cb or not Cb?Centering theory applied to NLG.
InProceedings ofACL Workshop on the Relationof Discourse~Dialogue Structure andReference, pages 72-81.Kibble, Rodger J. and Richard D. J. Power.2000.
An integrated framework for textplanning and pronominalisation.
IProceedings ofthe 1st International Conferenceon Natural Language Generation, pages77-84.Passoneau, Rebecca.
1998.
Interaction ofdiscourse structure with explicitness ofdiscourse anaphoric noun phrases.
InMarilyn Walker, Aravind K. Joshi, andEllen Prince, editors, Centering Theory inDiscourse.
Clarendon Press, Oxford, pages327-358.Reiter, Ehud.
1994.
Has a consensus NLgeneration architecture appeared, and is itpsycholinguistically plausible?
InProceedings ofthe 7th International Workshopon Natural Language Generation, pages163-170.Strube, Michael and Udo Hahn.
1999.Functional centering: Groundingreferential coherence in informationstructure.
Computational Linguistics25(3):309-344.van Deemter, Kees and Rodger Kibble.
2000.On coreferring: Coreference annotation inMUC and related schemes.
ComputationalLinguistics 26(4):615-623.Walker, Marilyn, Aravind K. Joshi, andEllen Prince.
1998.
Centering in naturallyoccurring discourse: An overview.
InMarilyn Walker, Aravind K. Joshi, andEllen Prince, editors, Centering Theory inDiscourse.
Clarendon Press, Oxford, pages1-28.587
