An Algorithm for Anaphora Resolution inSpanish TextsManuel Palomar*University of AlicanteLidia Moreno tValencia University of TechnologyJesfis Peral*University of AlicanteRafael Mufioz*University of AlicanteAntonio Ferr~indez*University of AlicantePatricio Martinez-Barco*University of AlicanteMaximiliano Saiz-Noeda*University of AlicanteThis paper presents an algorithm for identifying noun phrase antecedents ofthird person personalpronouns, demonstrative pronouns, reflexive pronouns, and omitted pronouns (zero pronouns)in unrestricted Spanish texts.
We define a list of constraints and preferences for different ypesof pronominal expressions, and we document in detail the importance of each kind of knowledge(lexical, morphological, syntactic, and statistical) in anaphora resolution for Spanish.
The paperalso provides a definition for syntactic onditions on Spanish NP-pronoun oncoreference usingpartial parsing.
The algorithm has been evaluated on a corpus of 1,677 pronouns and achieveda success rate of 76.8%.
We have also implemented four competitive algorithms and tested theirperformance in a blind evaluation on the same test corpus.
This new approach could easily beextended to other languages uch as English, Portuguese, Italian, or Japanese.1.
IntroductionWe present an algorithm for identifying noun phrase antecedents of personal pro-nouns, demonstrative pronouns, reflexive pronouns, and omitted pronouns (zero pro-nouns) in Spanish.
The algorithm identifies both intrasentential and intersententialantecedents and is applied to the syntactic analysis generated by the slot unifica-t ion parser (SUP) (Ferr~ndez, Palomar, and Moreno 1998b).
It also combines differentforms of knowledge by distinguishing between constraints and preferences.
Whereasconstraints are used as combinations of several kinds of knowledge (lexical, mor-phological, and syntactic), preferences are defined as a combination of heuristic rulesextracted from a study of different corpora.We present he following main contributions in this paper:?
an algorithm for anaphora resolution in Spanish texts that uses differentkinds of knowledge* Department of Software and Computing Systems, Alicante, Spain.
E-mail: (Palomar)mpalomar@dlsi.ua.es, (F rr~ndez) antonio@dlsi.ua.es, (Martfnez-Barco) patricio@dlsi.ua.es, (Peral)jperal@dlsi.ua.es, (Saiz-Noeda) max@dlsi.ua.es, (Mufioz) rafael@dlsi.ua.est Department of Information Systems and Computation, Valencia, Spain.
E-mail: hnoreno@dsic.upv.es@ 2001 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4?
an exhaustive study of the importance of each kind of knowledge inSpanish anaphora resolution?
a proposal concerning syntactic onditions on NP-pronounnoncoreference in Spanish that can be evaluated on a partial parse tree?
a proposal regarding preferences that are appropriate for resolvinganaphora in Spanish and that could easily be extended to otherlanguages?
a blind test of the algorithm?
a comparison with other approaches to anaphora resolution that we haveapplied to Spanish texts using the same blind testIn Section 2, we show the classification scheme we used to identify the different ypesof anaphora that we would be resolving.
In Section 3, we present he algorithm anddiscuss its main properties.
In Section 4, we evaluate the algorithm.
In Section 5, wecompare our algorithm with several other approaches to anaphora resolution.
Finally,we present our conclusions.2.
Our Classification Scheme for Pronominal Expressions in SpanishIn this section, we present our classification scheme for identifying the different ypesof anaphora that we will be resolving.
Personal pronouns (PPR), demonstrative pro-nouns (DPR), reflexive pronouns (RPR), and omitted pronouns (OPa) are some of themost frequent ypes of anaphoric expressions found in Spanish and are the mainsubject of this study.
Personal and demonstrative pronouns are further classified ac-cording to whether they appear within a prepositional phrase (PP) or whether theyare complement personal pronouns (clitic pronouns1).
We present examples for eachof the four types of common anaphora.
Each example is presented in three forms: as aSpanish sentence, as a word-to-word translation into English, and correctly translatedinto English.
22.1 Clitic Personal Pronouns (CPPR)In the case of clitic personal pronouns, I0, la, le 'him, her, it' and los, las, les 'them', weconsider that the third person personal pronoun plays the role of the complement.
(1) Ana abre \[la verja\]i y lai cierra tras de si.Ana opens \[the gate\]/ and it/ closes after herself'Ana opens the gate and closes it after herself.
'2.2 Personal Pronouns Not Included in a PP (PPanotPP)We include in this class the personal pronouns ~l, ella, ello 'he, she, it' and ellas, ellos'they'.
(2) Andr6si es mi vecino, t~li vive en el segundo piso.Andr6si is my neighbor Hei lives on the second floor'Andr6s is my neighbor.
He lives on the second floor.
'1 According to Mathews (1997), aclitic pronoun is a pronoun that is treated as an independent word insyntax but that forms a phonological unit with the verb that precedes or follows it.2 Coindexing indicates coreference b tween anaphor and antecedent.546Palomar et al Anaphora Resolution in Spanish Texts2.3 Personal Pronouns Included in a PP (PPRinPP)We include in this class the personal pronouns dl, ella, ello 'him, her, it' and ellas, ellos'them'.
(3) Juan/ debe asistir pero Pedro lo har~i por 61i.Juani must attend but Pedro it will do for himi'Juan must attend but Pedro will do it for him.
'2.4 Demonstrative Pronouns Not Included in a PP (DPRnotPP)We include in this class the demonstrative pronouns ~ste, dsta, esto 'this'; ~stos, ~stas'these'; dse, ~sa, aqu~l, aqu~lla 'that'; and dsos, dsas, aqu~llos, aqudllas 'those'.
(4) E1 Ferrarii gan6 al Ford.
t~stei es el mejor.the Ferrarii beat the Ford This/ is the best'The Ferrari beat the Ford.
This is the best.
'2.5 Demonstrative Pronouns Included in a PP (DPRinPP)We include in this class the demonstrative pronouns ~ste, ~sta, esto 'this'; ~stos, ~stas'these'; dse, ~sa, aqudl, aqudlla 'that'; and dsos, ~sas, aqu~llos, aqudllas 'those'.
(5) Ana vive con Pacoi y cocina para 6stei diariamente.Ana lives with Pacoi and cooks for this/ every day'Ana lives with Paco and cooks for him every day.
'2.6 Reflexive Pronouns (RPR)We include in this class the reflexive pronouns e, sL si mismo 'himself, herself, itself'and consigo, consigo mismo 'themselves'.
(6) Anai abre la verja y la cierra tras de sfi.Anai opens the gate and it closes after herself/'Ana opens the gate and closes it after herself.
'2.7 Omitted Pronouns (Zero Pronouns OPa)The omitted pronoun is the most frequent ype of anaphoric expression in Spanish, aswe will show in Section 4.2.
Omitted pronouns occur when the pronominal subject isomitted.
This kind of pronoun also occurs in other languages, such as Portuguese orJapanese; in these languages, it can also appear in object position, whereas in Spanishor Italian, it can appear only in subject position.
In the following example, the omissionis represented by the symbol 13 (the symbol does not appear in the correct ranslationinto English).
(7) Anai abre la verja y (~i la cierra tras de sf.Anai opens the gate and Oi it closes after herself'Ana opens the gate and she closes it after herself.'3.
Anaphora Resolution AlgorithmIn the algorithm, all the types of anaphora are identified from left to right as theyappear in the sentence.
The most important proposals for anaphora resolution--suchas those of Baldwin (1997), Lappin and Leass (1994), Hobbs (1978), or Kennedy andBoguraev (1996)--are based on a separation between constraints and preferences.547Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4Constraints discard some of the candidates, whereas preferences simply sort the re-maining candidates.
A constraint defines a property that must be satisfied in orderfor any candidate to be considered as a possible solution of the anaphor.
For example,pronominal anaphors and antecedents must agree in person, gender, and number.
3Otherwise, the candidate is discarded as a possible solution.
A preference is a charac-teristic that is not always satisfied by the solution of an anaphor.
The application ofpreferences usually involves the use of heuristic rules in order to obtain a ranked listof candidates.Each type of anaphora has its own set of constraints and preferences, althoughthey all follow the same general algorithm: constraints are applied first, followed bypreferences.Based on the preceding description, our algorithm contains the following maincomponents:?
identification of the type of pronoun?
constraints- -  morphological greement (person, gender, and number)- -  syntactic onditions on NP-pronoun oncoreference?
preferencesIn order to apply this algorithm to unrestricted texts, it has been necessary to usepartial parsing.
In our partial-parsing scheme, as presented in Ferr~ndez, Palomar, andMoreno (1999), we only parse coordinated NPs and PPs, verbal chunks, pronouns, andwhat we have called free conjunctions (i.e., conjunctions that do not join coordinatedNPs or PPs).
Words that do not appear within these constituents are simply ignored.The NP constituents include coordinated adjectives, relative clauses, coordinated PPs,and appositives as modifiers.With this partial-parsing scheme, we divide a sentence into clauses by parsing firstthe free conjunction and then the verbs, as in the following example:(8) Pedro compr6 un regalo y se lo dio a Ana.Pedro bought a gift and her it gave to Ana'Pedro bought a gift and gave it to Ana.
'In this example, we have parsed the following constituents: np(Pedro), v(comprO), np(unregalo),freeconj(y), pron(se), pron(lo), v(dio), pp(a Ana).
We are able to divide this sentenceinto two clauses because it contains the free conjunction y 'and' and the two verbscompr6 'bought' and clio 'gave'.3.1 Identification of the Kind of PronounThe algorithm uses partial-parse trees to automatically identify omitted pronouns byemploying the following steps:?
The sentence is divided into clauses (by parsing the free conjunctionfollowed by the verbs).3 In our implementation, thismorphological information is extracted from the part-of-speech tagger.548Palomar et al Anaphora Resolution in Spanish TextsAn NP or pronoun is sought for each clause by analyzing the clauseconstituents on the left-hand side of the verb, unless the verb isimperative or impersonal.
The chosen NP or pronoun must agree inperson and number with the clausal verb.
(In evaluating this algorithm,Ferr~ndez and Peral \[2000\] achieved a success rate of 88% for detectingomitted pronouns.
)The remaining pronouns are identified based on part-of-speech (POS) tagger out-puts.3.2 Morphological AgreementPerson, gender, and number agreement are checked in order to discard potential an-tecedents.
For example, in the sentence(9) Juanj vio a Rosa/.
Ella/ estaba muy feliz.Juanj saw to Rosa/ Shei was very happy'Juan saw Rosa.
She was very happy.
'there are two possible antecedents for ella 'she', whose slot structures 4 arenp (conc (sing, masc), X, Juan)np (conc (sing, fem), Y, Rosa)whereas the slot structure of the pronoun ispron (conc (sing, fem), Z, ella).In order to decide between the two antecedents, he unification of both slot struc-tures (pronoun and candidate) is carried out by the slot unification parser (Ferr~ndez,Palomar, and Moreno 1999).
In this example, the candidate Juan is rejected by thismorphological greement constraint.3.3 Syntactic Conditions on NP-Pronoun NoncoreferenceThese conditions are based on c-command and minimal-governing-category constraintsas formulated by Reinhart (1983) and on the noncoreference conditions of Lappin andLeass (1994).
They are of great importance in any anaphora resolution system thatdoes not use semantic information, as is the case with our proposal.
In such systems,recency is important in selecting the antecedent of an anaphor.
That is to say, theclosest NP to the anaphor has a better chance of being selected as the solution.
Oneproblem, however, is that such constraints are formulated using full parsing, whereasif we want to work with unrestricted texts we should be using partial parsing, aspreviously defined.We have therefore proposed a set of noncoreference onditions for Spanish, usingpartial parsing, although they could easily be extended to other languages such as En-glish.
In our system, the following types of pronouns are noncoreferential with a nounphrase (NP) under the conditions noted (noncoindexing indicates that a candidate isrejected by these conditions).4 The term slot structure is defined in Ferr~ndez, Palomar, and Moreno (1998b).
The slot structure storesmorphological and syntactic information related to the different constituents of a sentence.549Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4.(a)(b)(c).
(a)Reflexive pronouns are noncoreferential when:(b)(10)the NP is included in another constituent (e.g., the NP isincluded in a PP)Ante Luisj sei frot6 con la toalla.in front of Luisj himself/ rubbed with the towel'He rubbed himself with the towel in front of Luis.
'In this sentence, we would have obtained the following sequenceof constituents after our partial-parsing scheme: pp(prep(ante),np(Luis )) , pron(se) , v(frot6 ) , pp(prep( con) , np(la toalla) .
Followingthe above-stated condition, the NP Luis cannot corefer with thereflexive pronoun se since Luis is included in a PP (ante Luis).the NP is in a different clause or sentence(11) Anaj trajo un cuchillo y Eva/ sei cort6.Anaj brought a knife and Eva/ herself/ cut'Ana brought a knife and Eva cut herself.
'the NP appears after the verb and there is another NP in thesame clause before the verb(12)(13)Juan/ sei cort6 con el cuchilloj.Juan/ himself/ cut with the knifej'Juan cut himself with the knife.
'Under these conditions, coreference is allowed between the NPand the reflexive pronoun, since both are in the same clause.
Forexample:Juan/ queria verlo por s~ mismoi.Juan/ wanted see it for himself/'Juan wanted to see it for himself.
'In this example, Juan and the reflexive pronoun si mismo'himself' corefer since Juan is in the same clause as the anaphor,it is not included in another constituent, and it appears beforethe verb.Clitic pronouns are noncoreferential when:the NP is included in a PP (except hose headed by thepreposition a 'to')(14) Con Juan/ loj compr6.with Juan/ itj bought'I bought it with Juan.
'the NP is located more than three constituents before the cliticpronoun in the same clause(15) En casai \[el martillo\]j no se loj di.at home/ \[the hammer\]j not him itj gave'I didn't give him the hammer at home.
'550Palomar et al Anaphora Resolution in Spanish Texts.
(a)(17)(b)In this example, the direct object el martillo 'the hammer '  hasbeen moved from its common position after the verb, and it isnecessary to fill the resulting gap with the pronoun lo 'it' eventhough it does not appear in the English translation.
Thisphenomenon 5 can be considered an exception to the c-commandconstraints as formulated by Reinhart when applied to Spanishclitic pronouns.Moreover, if the last two conditions are not fulfilled by the NP and theverb is in the first or second person, then this NP will necessarily be thesolution of the pronoun:(16) \[El boligrafo\]i 1Oi comprar~s en esa tienda.\[The pen\]/ iti will buy in that shop'You will buy the pen in that shop.
'Personal and demonstrative (nonclitic) pronouns are noncoreferentialwhen the NP is in the same clause as the anaphor, and:the pronoun comes before the verb (in full parsing, this wouldmean that it is the subject of its clause)Ante Luisi 61j salud6 a Pedrok.in front of Luisi hey greeted to Pedrok'He greeted Pedro in front of Luis.
'the pronoun comes after the verb (in full parsing, this wouldmean that it is the object of the verb) and the NP is not includedin another NP(18) \[El padre de Juanj\]i le venci6 a 41j.\[Juanj's father\]/ him beat to himj'Juan's father beat him.
'In this example, the pronoun ~I 'him' cannot corefer with the NPel padre de Juan 'Juan's father', but it can corefer with Juan since itis a modifier of the NP el padre de Juan.It should be mentioned that the clitic pronoun le is anotherform of the pronoun dl 'him'.
This is a typical phenomenon iSpanish, where clitic pronouns occupy the object position.Sometimes both the clitic pronoun and the object appear in thesame clause, as occurs in the previous example and in thefollowing one:(19) A Pedro/ yo lei vi ayer.to Pedroj I himi saw yesterday'I saw Pedro yesterday.
'This example also illustrates the previously mentioned exceptionof c-command constraints for Spanish clitic pronouns.
In thiscase, the direct object a Pedro 'to Pedro' has been moved beforethe verb, and the clitic pronoun le 'him' has been added.
Itshould also be remarked that, as noted earlier, the clitic pronoundoes not appear in the English translation.5 Mathews (1997) calls this phenomenon "clitic doubling" and defines it as the use of a clitic pronounwith the same referent and in the same syntactic function as another element in the same clause.551Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4(c) the pronoun is included in a PP that is not included in anotherconstituent and the NP is not included in another constituent(NP or PP)(20) \[El padre de Luisj\]i juega con 61j.\[Luisj's father\]/ plays with himj'Luis's father plays with him.
'In this example, the pronoun ~I 'him' is included in a PP (whichis not included in another constituent) and the NP el padre deLuis is not included in another NP or PP.
Therefore, the NPcannot corefer with the pronoun.
However, the NP Luis cancorefer because it is included in the NP el padre de Luis.
(d) the pronoun is included in an NP, so that the NP in which thepronoun is included cannot corefer with the pronoun(21) Pedro/ vio \[al hermano de ~li\] j.Pedro/ saw \[the brother of himi\]j'Pedro saw his brother.
'(e) the pronoun is coordinated with other NPs, so that the othercoordinated NPs cannot corefer with the pronoun(22) Juan/, \[el tio de Ana\]j, y 61k fueron de pesca.Juan/, \[Ana's uncle\]j, and hek went fishing'He, Juan, and Ana's uncle went fishing.
'(f) the pronoun is included in a relative clause, and the followingcondition is met:.(24)i.
the NP in which the relative clause is included does notcorefer with the pronoun(23) Pedroj vio a \[un amigo que juega con 41j\]i.Pedroj saw to \[a friend that plays with himj\]i'Pedro saw a friend that he plays with.'ii.
the NPs that are included in the relative clause followthe previous conditionsiii.
the remaining NPs outside the relative clause couldcorefer with the pronounPersonal and demonstrative (nonclitic) pronouns are noncoreferentialwhen the NP is not in the same clause as the pronoun.
(In this case, theNP can corefer with the pronoun, except when this NP also appears inthe same sentence and clause as the pronoun, in which case it will havebeen discarded by the previous noncoreference onditions.
)Anaj y Evai son amigas.
Evai lej ayuda mucho.Anay and Evai are friends Evai herj helps a lot'Ana and Eva are friends.
Eva helps her a lot.
'It is important o note that the above-mentioned conditions refer to those coor-dinated NPs and PPs that have been partially parsed.
Moreover, as previously men-tioned, NPs can include relative clauses, appositives, coordinated PPs, and adjectives.552Palomar et al Anaphora Resolution in Spanish TextsWe should also remark that we consider aconstituent A to be included in a constituentB if A modifies the head of B.
Let us consider the following NP:(25) \[el hombre que ama a \[una mujer que lei ama\]j\]i\[the man who loves to \[a woman who him/ loveslj\]i'the man who loves a woman who loves him.
'We consider that the pronoun le 'him' is included in the relative clause that mod-ifies the NP una mujer que le ama 'a woman who loves him', which then cannot coreferwith it due to noncoreference ondition 3(f)i.
Under condition 3(f)iii, however, thepronoun le 'him' could corefer with the entire NP el hombre que area a una mujer que learea 'the man who loves a woman who loves him'.Another example might be the following:(26) Eva/ tiene \[un tio que lei toma el pelo\]j.Evai has \[an uncle that heri teases\]j'Eva has an uncle who teases her.
'In this example, the pronoun is included within the relative clause that modifies untio 'an uncle', and therefore cannot corefer with it.
But, following condition 3(f)iii, itcan corefer with Eva.3.4 PreferencesTo obtain the different sets of preferences, we utilized the training corpus to identifythe importance of each kind of knowledge that is used by humans when trackingdown the NP antecedent of a pronoun.
Our results are shown in Table 1.
For ouranalysis, the antecedents for each pronoun in the text were identified, along with theirconfigurational characteristics with reference to the pronoun.
Thus, the table showshow often each configurational characteristic is valid for the solution of a particularpronoun.
For example, the solution of a reflexive pronoun is a proper noun 53% of thetime.
The total number of pronoun occurrences in the study was 575.
Thus, we wereable to define the different patterns of Spanish pronoun resolution and apply them inorder to obtain the evaluation results that are presented in this paper.
The order ofimportance was determined by first sorting the preferences according to the percentageof each configurational characteristic; that is, preferences with higher percentages wereapplied before those with lower percentages.
After several experiments on the trainingcorpus, an optimal order--the one that produced the best performance--was obtained.Since in this evaluation phase we processed texts from different genres and by differentauthors, we can state that the final set of preferences obtained and their order ofapplication can be used with confidence on any Spanish text.Based on the results presented in Table 1, we have extracted a set of preferences foreach type of anaphora (listed below).
We have distinguished between those pronounsthat are included within PPs and those that are not.
That is because when a pronounis included in a PP, the preposition of this PP sets a preference.Preferences of omitted pronouns (OPR):1.
NPs that are not of time, direction, quantity, or abstract type; that is tosay, inanimate candidates are rejected (e.g., hal~past en, Market Street,three pounds, or a thing)2.
NPs in the same sentence as the omitted pronotm553Computat ional  Linguistics Volume 27, Number  4Table 1Percentage validity of types of pronouns for different configuration characteristics of thetraining corpus (n = 575).CPPR RPR OPR PPRinPP DPRinPP PPRnotPP DPRnotPPIntrasentential 66 97 57 70 100 60 75Intersentential 34 3 43 30 0 40 25NPSentAnt ~ 9 3 4 16 50 9 38AntPPin b 7 9 14 27 50 20 25AntProper c 57 53 63 35 0 43 0AntIndef a 13 0 7 0 0 6 13AntRepeaff 72 66 79 65 50 71 50AntWithVerb f 14 94 20 24 0 26 25EqualPP g 100 100 100 78 100 97 100EqualPosVerb h 79 84 89 46 0 86 38BeforeVerb i 83 91 89 65 50 86 13NoTime d 100 100 100 100 100 100 100NoQuant i ty  k 100 100 100 100 100 97 100NoDirect ion I 100 100 100 97 100 100 100NoAbstract m 100 100 100 100 100 100 100NoCompany n 100 100 100 100 100 100 100a If the NPb If the NPc If the NPd If the NPe If the NPf If the NPg If the NPh If the NPi If the NPj If the NPk If the NP1 If the NPm If the NPn If the NPis included in another NPis included in a PP with the preposition en 'in'is a proper nounis an indefinite NPhas been repeated more than once in the texthas appeared with the verb of the anaphor more than once in the texthas appeared in a PP more than once in the textoccupies the same position with reference to the verb as the anaphor (before or after)appears before its verbis not a time-typeis not a quantity-typeis not a direction-typeis not an abstract-typeis not a company-type3.
NPs  that  are in the same sentence  as the  anaphor  and  are also theso lu t ion  for  another  omi t ted  pronotm4.
NPs  that  are in the prev ious  sentence5.
NPs  that  are not  inc luded  in another  NP  (e.g., when they  appear  ins idea re la t ive  c lause  or  appos i t i ve )6.
NPs  that  are not  inc luded  in a PP or  are  inc luded  in a PP  when itsp repos i t ion  is a ' to '  or  de ' o f '7.
NPs  that  appear  be fore  the  verb8.
NPs  that  have  been  repeated  more  than  once  in the  textPreferences of clitic personal pronouns (CPPR):1.
NPs  that  are not  of  t ime,  d i rect ion ,  quant i ty ,  or  abst ract  type2.
NPs  that  are in  the  same sentence  as the  anaphor554Palomar et al Anaphora Resolution in Spanish Texts3.
NPs that are in the previous sentence4.
NPs that are not included in another NP (e.g., when they appear insidea clause or appositive)5.
NPs that are not included in a PP or are included in a PP when itspreposit ion is a 'to' or de 'of '6.
NPs that have appeared with the verb of the anaphor more than oncePreferences of personal and demonstrative pronouns that are included in a PP(PPRinPP and DPRinPP):1.
NPs that are not of time, direction, quantity, or abstract ype; moreover,in the case of personal pronouns, the NP cannot be a company type2.
NPs that are in the same sentence as the anaphor3.
NPs that are in the previous sentence4.
NPs that are not included in another NP (e.g., when they appear insidea relative clause or appositive)5.
NPs that have been repeated more than once in the text6.
NPs that are included in a PP7.
NPs that occupy the same position (before or after) with respect o theverb as the anaphorPreferences of personal and demonstrative pronouns that are not included in a PPand of reflexive pronouns (PPRnotPP, DPRnotPP, and RPR):1.
NPs that are not of time, direction, quantity, or abstract ype; moreover,in the case of personal pronouns, the NP cannot be a company type2.
NPs that are in the same sentence as the anaphor3.
NPs that are in the previous sentence4.
NPs that are not included in another NP (e.g., when they appear insidea relative clause or appositive)5.
NPs that are not included in a PP or that are included in a PP when itspreposit ion is a 'to' or de 'of '6.
For the case of personal pronouns (PPRnotPP), NPs that are notincluded in a PP with the preposit ion en ' in'7.
NPs that appear before their verbs (i.e., the verb of the sentence inwhich the NP appears)3.5 Resolution ProcedureThe resolution procedure consists of the following steps:1.
Identify the type of anaphora: pronominal  (PPRinPP or PPRnotPP),demonstrat ive (DPRinPP or DPRnotPP), reflexive (RPR), or omitted(oPR).555Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 42.
Identify the NP candidate antecedents of a pronoun in order to create alist L. The list created will depend on the type of anaphor and theanaphoric accessibility space (empirically obtained from a deep studyof the training corpus) and will be developed according to thefollowing criteria:?
For pronominal anaphora, demonstrative anaphora, andomitted pronouns, NP candidates will appear in the samesentence as the anaphor and in the four previous sentences.?
For reflexive anaphora, NP candidates will appear in the samesentence as the anaphor.3.
Apply constraints to L to obtain LI:(a) morphological agreement(b) syntactic onditions on NP-pronoun noncoreference4.
If the number of elements of L1 - 1, then the solution is that element.5.
If the number of elements of L1 = 0, then the solution is an exophor.6.
If the number of elements of L1 > 1, then apply preferences to L1 toobtain L2.
Depending on the type of anaphora, a different set and orderof preferences will be applied (see Section 3.4).7.
If the number of elements of L2 = 1, then the solution is that element.8.
If the number of elements of L2 > 1, then apply the following threebasic preferences in the order shown until only one candidate remains(these three preferences are common to all the pronouns):?
NPs most repeated in the text?
NPs that have appeared most with the verb of the anaphor?
the first candidate of the remaining list (the closest one to theanaphor)After applying these basic preferences, the antecedent is obtained.4.
Empirical Evaluation4.1 Description of CorporaWe have tested the algorithm on both technical manuals and literary texts.
In the firstinstance, we used a portion of the Spanish edition of the Blue Book corpus.
6 Thiscorpus contains the handbook of the International Telecommunications Union CCITT,published in English, French, and Spanish; it is one of the most important collections oftelecommunications texts available and contains 5,000,000 words automatically taggedby the Xerox tagger.
In the second instance, the algorithm was tested on Lexesp, acorpus 7 that contains Spanish literary texts from different genres and by different6 CRATER (Proyecto CRATER 1994-1995) Corpus Resources and Terminology Extraction Project.
Projectsupported by the European Community Commission (DG-XIII).
Computational Linguistics Laboratory,Faculty of Philosophy and Fine Arts, Autonomous University of Madrid, Spain.7 The Lexesp corpus belongs to the project of the same name carried out by the Psychology Departmentof the University of Oviedo and developed by the Computational Linguistics Group of the Universityof Barcelona, with the collaboration fthe Language Processing Group of the Catalonia University ofTechnology, Spain.556Palomar et al Anaphora Resolution in Spanish TextsTable 2Pronoun occurrences in two types of texts.Total BB Corpus Lexesp CorpusNumber of pronoun occurrencesin the training corpus 575 123Number of pronoun occurrencesin the test corpus 1,677 3754521,302authors.
These texts were mainly obtained from newspapers and were automaticallytagged by a different agger than the one used to tag the Blue Book.
The portion ofthe Lexesp corpus that we processed contained various stories, related by a narrator,and written by different authors.
As was the case for the Blue Book corpus, thiscorpus also contained 5,000,000 words.
Since we worked on texts from different genresand by different authors, the applicability of our proposal to other kinds of texts isassured.We selected a subset of the Blue Book corpus and another subset of the Lex-esp corpus, and both were annotated with respect o coreference.
One portion of thecoreferentially tagged corpus (training corpus) was used for improving the rules foranaphora resolution (constraints and preferences), and another portion was reservedfor test data (Table 2).The annotation phase was accomplished in the following manner: (1) two annota-tors were selected, (2) an agreement was reached between the annotators with regardto the annotation scheme, (3) each annotator annotated the corpus, and, finally, (4) areliability test (Carletta et al 1997) was done on the annotation in order to guaran-tee the results.
The reliability test used the kappa statistic that measures agreementbetween the annotations of two annotators in making judgments about categories.
Inthis way, the annotation is considered a classification task consisting of defining an ad-equate solution among the candidate list.
According to Vieira (1998), the classificationtask when tagging anaphora resolution can be reduced to a decision about whethereach candidate is the solution or not.
Thus, two different categories are consideredfor each anaphor: one for the correct antecedent and another for nonantecedents.
Ourexperimentation showed one correct antecedent among an average of 14.5 possiblecandidates per anaphor after applying constraints.
For computing the kappa statistic(k), see Siegel and Castellan (1988).According to Carletta et al (1997), a k measurement such as 0.68 < k < 0.8 allowsus to draw encouraging conclusions, and a measurement k > 0.8 means there is to-tal reliability between the results of the two annotators.
In our tests, we obtained akappa measurement of k = 0.81.
We therefore consider the annotation obtained for theevaluation to be totally reliable.4.2 Experimental WorkWe conducted a blind test over the entire test corpus of unrestricted Spanish texts byapplying the algorithm to the partial syntactic structure generated by the slot unifica-tion parser.Over these corpora, our algorithm attained a success rate for anaphora resolutionof 76.8%.
We define "success rate" as the number of pronouns successfully resolved,divided by the total number of resolved pronouns.
The total number of resolved pro-nouns was 1,677, including personal, demonstrative, reflexive, and omitted pronouns.557Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4Table 3Results of blind test.CPPR RPR OPR PPRinPP DPRinPP PPRnotPP DPRnotPP TotalNum.
ofpronounoccurrences 228 80 1,099 107 20 94 49 1,677Num.
ofcasescorrectly 162 74 868 70 17 64 34 1,289resolvedSuccessrate 71.0% 92.5% 78.9% 65.4% 85.0% 68.0% 69.3% 76.8%All of them were in the third person, with a noun phrase that appeared before theanaphor as their antecedent.
Our algorithm's "recall percentage," defined as the num-ber of pronouns correctly resolved, divided by the total number of pronouns in thetext, was therefore 76.8%.
A breakdown of success rate results for each kind of pro-noun is also shown in Table 3.
The pronouns were classified so as to provide theoption of applying different kinds of knowledge to resolve each category of pronoun.One of the factors that affected the results was the complexity of the Lexesp corpus,due mainly to its complex narratives.
On average, 16 words per sentence and 27candidates per anaphor were found in this corpus.In our experiment, a "successful resolution" occurred if the head of the solutionoffered by our algorithm was the same as that offered by two human experts.
Weadopted this definition of "success" because it allowed the system to be totally auto-matic: solutions given by the annotators were stored in a file and were later automat-ically compared with the solutions given by our system.
Since semantic informationwas not used at all, PP attachments were not always correctly disambiguated.
Hence,at times the differences imply corresponded to different subconstituents.After the evaluation process, we tested the results in order to identify the lim-itations of the algorithm with respect to the resolution process.
We identified thefollowing:?
There were some mistakes in the POS tagging (causing an error rate ofaround 3%).?
There were some mistakes in the partial parsing with respect o theidentification of complex noun phrases (causing an error rate of around7%) (Palomar et al 1999).?
Semantic information was not considered (causing an error rate ofaround 32%).
An example of this type of error can be seen in thefollowing text extracted from the Lexesp corpus:(27) Recuerdo, pot ejemplo, \[un pequefio claro en un bosque enmedio de las montafias canadienses\]i, con tres lagunas diminutasque, a causa de los sedimentos del agua.
tenfan distintos y chocantescolores.
Esta rareza habia hecho del sitioi un espacio sagrado al queperegrinaron los indios durante siglos y seguramente antes lospobladores paleolfticos.
Y eso se notaba.558Palomar et al Anaphora Resolution in Spanish Texts(28)Canad~i es un pals muy hermoso, y aqu41i no era, ni muchornenos, el lugar m~s bello: pero guardaba tranquilamente d ntro de sftoda su arrnonfa, como los melocotones guardan dentro de sf el durohueso.
'1 remember, for example, \[a small clearing in the woods in themiddle of the Canadian mountains\]/, with three tiny lagoons that,due to the water sediments, had different and astonishing colors.This peculiarity had made the place/into a sacred site, to which theIndians made pilgrimages over the centuries, and surely even thePaleolithic Indians before them.
And you could feel it.
'Canada is a very beautiful country and that one/was by nomeans the most beautiful place: but it calmly kept within itself all ofits harmony, like peaches that keep the hard seeds within.
'In this text, the demonstrative pronoun aqudl 'that one' corefers with theantecedent un peque~o claro en un bosque n medio de las monta~as canadienses'a small clearing in the woods in the middle of the Canadian mountains',which is also linked to the definite noun phrase el sitio 'the place'.
Ouralgorithm identified the proper noun Canadd, which is in the samesentence, as the anaphor, since the proper noun could only have beendiscarded by means of semantic information.As an example of an anaphor that was correctly resolved by thealgorithm, we present he following sentence xtracted from the BlueBook corpus.
In this case, the antecedent los sistemas de transmisidnanaldgica 'the systems of analogue transmission' was correctly chosen forthe personal pronoun ellos 'them': 'En las conexiones largas o de Iongitud media, es probable que lafuente principal de ruido de circuito estribe en \[los sistemas detransmisi6n anal6gica\]i, ya queen ellosi la potencia de ruido sueleset proporcional  la Iongitud del circuito.
'In long or medium connections, it is probable that the main source ofcircuit noise comes from \[the systems of analogue transmission\]/,since in them/the noise capacity is usually proportional to the lengthof the circuit.
'The remainder of the errors were due to split antecedents (10%),cataphora (2%), exophora (3%), or exceptions in the application ofpreferences (43%).5.
Comparison with Other Approaches to Anaphora Resolution5.1 Anaphora Resolution ApproachesCommon among all languages i the fact that the anaphora phenomenon requires im-ilar strategies for its resolution (e.g., pronouns or definite descriptions).
All languagesemploy different kinds of knowledge, but their strategies differ only in the manner bywhich this knowledge is coordinated.
For example, in some strategies just one kindof knowledge becomes the main selector for identifying the antecedent, with otherkinds of knowledge being used merely to confirm or reject the proposed antecedent.In such cases, the typical kind of knowledge used as the selector is that of discoursestructure.
Centering theory, as employed by Strube and Hahn (1999) or Okumura andTamura (1996), uses this type of approach.
Other approaches, however, give equal559Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4importance to each kind of knowledge and generally distinguish between constraintsand preferences (Baldwin 1997; Lappin and Leass 1994; Carbonell and Brown 1988).Whereas constraints tend to be absolute and therefore discard possible antecedents,preferences tend to be relative and require the use of additional criteria (e.g., the use ofheuristics that are not always satisfied by all antecedents).
Nakaiwa and Shirai (1996)use this sort of resolution model, which involves the use of semantic and pragmaticconstraints, such as constraints based on modal expressions, or constraints based onverbal semantic attributes or conjunctions.Our approach to anaphora resolution belongs in the latter category, since it com-bines different kinds of knowledge and no knowledge based on discourse structureis included.
We choose to ignore discourse structure because obtaining this kind ofknowledge requires not only an understanding of semantics but also knowledge aboutworld affairs and the ability to almost perfectly parse any text under discussion (Az-zam, Humphreys, and Gaizauskas 1998).Still other approaches to anaphora resolution are based either on machine learn-ing techniques (Connolly, Burger, and Day 1994; Yamamoto and Sumita 1998; Paul,Yamamato, and Sumita 1999) or on the principles of uncertainty reasoning (Mitkov1995).Computational processing of semantic and domain information is relatively expen-sive when compared with other kinds of knowledge.
Consequently, current anaphoraresolution methods rely mainly on constraint and preference heuristics, which employmorpho-syntactic information or shallow semantic analysis (see, for example, Mitkov\[1998\]).
Such approaches have performed notably well.
Lappin and Leass (1994) de-scribe an algorithm for pronominal anaphora resolution that achieves a high rate ofcorrect analyses (85%).
Their approach, however, operates almost exclusively on syn-tactic information.
More recently, Kennedy and Boguraev (1996) proposed an algorithmfor anaphora resolution that is actually a modified and extended version of the onedeveloped by Lappin and Leass (1994).
It works from the output of a POS tagger andachieves an accuracy rate of 75%.There are other approaches based on POS tagger outputs as well.
For example,Mitkov and Stys (1997) propose a knowledge-poor approach to resolving pronounsin technical manuals in both English and Polish.
The knowledge mployed in theseapproaches i limited to a small noun phrase grammar, a list of terms, and a set ofantecedent indicators (definiteness, term preference, lexical reiteration, etc.
).Still other approaches are based on statistical information, including the work ofDagan and Itai (1990, 1991) and Ge, Hale, and Charniak (1998), all of whom present aprobabilistic model for pronoun resolution.We have adopted their ideas and adapted their algorithms to partial parsing andto Spanish texts in order to compare our results with their approaches.With reference to the differences between English and Spanish anaphora resolu-tion, we have made the following observations:Syntactic parallelism has played a more important role in English textsthan in Spanish texts, since Spanish sentence structure is more flexiblethan English sentence structure.
Spanish is a free-word-order languageand has different syntactic onditions, which increases the difficulty ofresolving Spanish pronouns (hence, the greater accuracy rate for Englishtexts).?
A greater number of possible antecedents was observed for Spanishpronouns than for English pronouns, due mainly to the greater average560Palomar et al Anaphora Resolution in Spanish Textslength of Spanish sentences (which also makes the resolution of Spanishpronouns more difficult).Spanish pronouns usually bear more morphological information.
Oneresult is that this constraint tends to discard more candidates in Spanishthan in English.For comparison purposes, we implemented the following approaches on the sameSpanish texts that were tested and described in Section 4.1.5.2 Hobbs's AlgorithmHobbs's algorithm (Hobbs 1978) is applied to the surface parse trees of sentences ina text.
A surface parse tree represents the grammatical structure of a sentence.
Byreading the leaves of the parse tree from left to right, the original English sentence isformed.
The algorithm parses the tree in a predefined order and searches for a nounphrase of the correct gender and number.
Hobbs tested his algorithm for the pronounshe, she, it, and they, using 100 examples taken from three different sources.
Althoughthe algorithm is very simple, it was successful 81.8% of the time.We implemented a version of Hobbs's algorithm for slot unification grammar forSpanish texts.
Since full parsing was not done, our specifications for the algorithmwere adjusted, as follows:?
NPs were tested from left to right, as they were parsed in the sentence.?
Afterward, the NPs that were included in an NP (breadth-first) weretested.?
This test was interrupted when an NP agreed in gender and numberwith the anaphor.The problems we encountered in implementing Hobbs's algorithm are similar tothose found in implementing other approaches: the adaptation to partial parsing, andthe inherent difficulty of the Spanish language (i.e., its free-word-order characteristics).The results of our test of this version of Hobbs's algorithm on the test corpusappear in Table 4.5.3 Approaches Based on Constraints and Proximity PreferenceOur approach as also been compared with the typical baseline approach consisting ofconstraints and proximity preference; that is, the antecedent that appears closest o theanaphor is chosen from among those that satisfy the constraints.
For this comparison,the same constraints that were used previously (i.e., morphological greement andsyntactic onditions) were applied here.
Then the antecedent a the head of the list ofantecedents was proposed as the solution of the anaphor.
These results are also listedin Table 4.
As can be seen from the table, success rates were lower than those obtainedthrough the joint application of all the preferences.5.4 Lappin and Leass's AlgorithmAn algorithm for identifying the noun phrase antecedents of third person pronounsand lexical anaphors (reflexive and reciprocal) is presented in Lappin and Leass (1994);this algorithm has exhibited a high rate (85%) of correct analyses in English texts.
Itrelies on measures of salience that are derived from syntactic structures and on simpledynamic models of attentional state to select he antecedent oun phrase of a pronounfrom a list of candidates.561Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4We have implemented a version of Lappin and Leass's algorithm for Spanish texts.The original formulation of the algorithm proposes a syntactic filter on NP-pronouncoreference.
This filter consists of six conditions for NP-pronoun oncoreference withinany sentence (Lappin and Leass 1994, page 537).
In applying this algorithm to Span-ish texts, we changed these conditions o as to capture the appropriate context.
Asmentioned previously, our algorithm does not have access to full syntactic knowledge.Accordingly, we employed partial parsing over the text in our application of Lappinand Leass's algorithm.
The salience parameters were weighted (weight appears inparentheses) and applied in the following way:?
Sentence recency (100): Applied when the NP appeared in the samesentence as the anaphor.?
Subject emphasis (80): Applied when the NP was located before theverb of the clause in which it appeared.
This heuristic was necessarybecause of our algorithm's lack of syntactic knowledge.
It should benoted, however, that since Spanish is a nearly free-word-order languageand the exchange of subject and object positions within Spanishsentences i common, the heuristic is often invalid.
For example, the twoSpanish sentences Pedro compr6 un regalo 'Pedro bought a present' and Unregalo compr6 Pedro 'A present bought Pedro' are equivalent to oneanother and to the English sentence Pedro bought a present.?
Existential emphasis (70): In this instance, we applied the parameter inthe same way as Lappin and Leass, since the entire NP was fully parsed,which allowed us to tell when it was a definite or an indefinite NP.?
Accusative emphasis (50): Applied when the NP appeared after the verbof the clause in which it appeared and the NP did not appear insideanother NP or PP.
For example, in the sentence Pedro encontr6 el libro deJuana 'Pedro found Juana's book', a value was assigned to el libro de Juana'Juana's book' but not to Juana.
Once again, it should be noted that thisheuristic was necessary because of our algorithm's lack of syntacticknowledge.?
Indirect object and oblique complement emphasis (40): Applied whenthe NP appeared in a PP with the Spanish preposition a 'to', whichusually preceded the indirect object of its sentence.?
Head noun emphasis (80): Applied when the NP was not contained inanother NP.?
Nonadverbial emphasis (50): Applied when the NP was not containedin an adverbial PP.
In this case, its application depended on the kind ofpreposition in which the NP was included.?
Parallelism reward (35): Applied when the NP occupied the sameposition as the anaphor with reference to the verb of the sentence (beforeor after the verb).Finally, we followed Lappin and Leass in assigning the additional salience valueto NPs in the current sentence and in degrading the salience of NPs in precedingsentences.Our results exhibited some similarities with Lappin and Leass's experiments.For example, anaphora was strongly preferred over cataphora, and both approaches562Palomar et al Anaphora Resolution in Spanish Textspreferred intrasentential NPs to intersentential ones.
These results can be seen inTable 4.5.5 Centering ApproachThe centering model proposed by Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1983, 1995) providesa framework for modeling the local coherence of discourse.
The model has two con-structs, a list of forward-looking centers and a backward-looking center, that can beassigned to each utterance Ui.
The list of forward-looking centers Cf(Ui) ranks dis-course entities within the utterance Ui.
The backward-looking center Cb(Ui+l) con-stitutes the most highly ranked element of Cf(Ui) that is finally realized in the nextutterance Ui+l.
In this way, the ranking imposed over Cf(Ui) must reflect he fact thatthe preferred center Cp(U/) (i.e., the most highly ranked element of Cf(Ui)) is mostlikely to be Cb(Ui+l).The ranking criteria used by Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995) order items inthe Cf list using grammatical roles.
Thus, entities with a subject role are preferred toentities with an object role, and objects are preferred to others (adjuncts, etc.
).Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995) state that if any element of Cf(Ui) is realizedby a pronoun in Ui+l, then Cb(Ui+l) must also be realized by a pronoun.Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987) applied the centering model to pronounresolution.
They based their algorithm on the fact that centering transition relationswill hold across adjacent utterances.Moreover, one crucial point in centering is the ranking of the forward-lookingcenters.
Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995) state that Cf may be ordered using differentfactors, but they only use information about grammatical roles.
However, both Strube(1998) and Strube and Hahn (1999) point out that it is difficult to define grammaticalroles in free-word-order languages like German or Spanish.
For languages like these,they propose other anking criteria dependent upon the information status of discourseentities.
They claim that information about familiarity is crucial for the ranking ofdiscourse ntities, at least in free-word-order languages.According to Strube's ranking criteria, two different sets of expressions, hearer-old discourse ntities (OLD) and hearer-new discourse ntities (NEW), can be distin-guished.
OLD discourse ntities consist of evoked entities---coreferring resolved ex-pressions (pronominal and nominal anaphora, previously mentioned proper names,relative pronouns, appositives)--and unused entities (proper names and titles).
The re-maining entities are assigned to the NEW set.
The basic ranking criteria for pronominalanaphora resolution prefer OLD entities over NEW entities.
8Strube (1998) thus proposes the following adaptation to the centering model:The Cf list is replaced by the list of salient discourse ntities (S-list)containing discourse ntities that are realized in the current and previousutterance.?
The elements of the S-list are ranked according to the basic rankingcriteria and position information:If X E OLD and y C NEW, then x precedes y.If x, y ~ OLD or x, y E NEW,8 To resolve functional naphora,  third set, MED, which includes inferable information, must be addedbetween the OLD and the NEW sets.
However, this set is not needed to resolve pronominal naphora(Strube and Hahn 1999).563Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4Table 4Comparative r sults of blind test.Total CPPR RPR OPR PPRinPP DPRinPP PPRnotPP DPRnotPPNum.
ofpronoun 1,677 228 80 1,099 107 20 94 49occurrencesHobbs'salgorithm 62.7% 61% 85% 62% 62% 50% 66% 52%Lappin &Leass's 67.4% 66% 86% 67% 65% 60% 67% 60%algorithmProximity 52.9% 55% 86% 47% 65% 85% 61% 65%Centeringapproach 62.6% 60% 85% 62% 61% 60% 62% 58%Ouralgorithm 76.8% 71% 92% 79% 65% 85% 68% 69%then if utterance(y) precedes utterance(x), then x precedes y,if utterance(y) = utterance(x) and pos(x) < pos(y), then x precedes y.Since there is not a clear definition of what an utterance is, the followingcriteria are assumed: tensed clauses are defined as utterances on theirown and untensed clauses are processed with the main clause in order toconstitute only one utterance.Incorporating these adaptations, Strube (1998) then proposes the following algo-rithm:1.
If a referring expression is encountered,(a) if it is a pronoun, test the elements of the S-list in order until thetest succeeds;(b) update the S-list using information about this referringexpression.2.
If the analysis of utterance U is finished, remove all discourse ntitiesfrom the S-list that are not realized in U.The evaluation of this algorithm was performed in Strube (1998) and obtained aprecision of 85.4% for English, improving upon the results of the centering algorithmby Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987), which achieved only 72.9% precision whenit was applied to the same corpus.Consequently, in adapting the centering model to Spanish anaphora resolution, wefollowed Strube's indications.
The success rate of the algorithm was not satisfactory,as can be seen in Table 4.6.
Conclus ionsIn this paper, we have presented an algorithm for identifying noun phrase antecedentsof third person personal pronouns, demonstrative pronouns, reflexive pronouns, and564Palomar et al Anaphora Resolution in Spanish Textsomitted pronouns in Spanish.
The algorithm is applied to the syntactic structure gen-erated by the slot unification parser--see Ferrdndez, Palomar, and Moreno (1998a,1998b, 1999)--and coordinates different kinds of knowledge (lexical, morphological,and syntactic) by distinguishing between constraints and preferences.The main contribution ofthis paper is the introduction ofan algorithm for anaphoraresolution for Spanish.
In our work, we have undertaken an exhaustive study of theimportance of each kind of knowledge in anaphora resolution for Spanish.
Moreover,we have developed a definition of syntactic onditions of NP-pronoun noncorefer-ence in Spanish with partial parsing.
We have also adapted our anaphora resolutionalgorithm to the problem of partial syntactic knowledge, that is to say, when partialparsing of the text is accomplished.For unrestricted texts, our approach is somewhat less accurate, since semanticinformation is not taken into account.
For such texts, we are dealing with the outputof a POS tagger, which does not provide this sort of knowledge.
In order to test ourapproach with texts of different genres by different authors, we have worked withtwo different Spanish corpora, literary texts (the Lexesp corpus) and technical texts(the Blue Book), containing a total of 1,677 pronoun occurrences.The algorithm successfully identified the antecedent of the pronoun for 76.8%of these pronoun occurrences.
Other algorithms usually work with different kindsof knowledge, different texts, and different languages.
In order to make a more validcomparison of our algorithm with others, we adapted the other algorithms so that theywould operate using only partial-parsing knowledge.
In this evaluation, our algorithmhas always obtained better esults.Moreover, based on the results on our study of the importance of each kindof knowledge, we can emphasize that constraints are very important for resolvinganaphora successfully, since they considerably reduce the number of possible candi-dates.In future studies, we will attempt to evaluate the importance of semantic informa-tion in unrestricted texts for anaphora resolution in Spanish texts (Saiz-Noeda, Su~rez,and Peral 1999).
This information will be obtained from a lexical tool (e.g., SpanishWordNet), which can be automatically consulted (since the tagger does not providethis information).AcknowledgmentsThe authors wish to thank Ferran Pla,Natividad Prieto, and Antonio Molina forcontributing their tagger (Pla 2000); andRichard Evans, Mikel Forcada, and RafaelCarrasco for their helpful revisions of theideas presented in this paper.
We are alsograteful to several anonymous reviewers ofComputational Linguistics for helpfulcomments on earlier drafts of this paper.Our work has been supported by theSpanish government (CICYT) with GrantTIC97-0671-C02-01/02.ReferencesAzzam, Saliha, Kevin Humphreys, andRobert Gaizauskas.
1998.
Evaluating afocus-based approach to anaphoraresolution.
In Proceedings ofthe 36th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics and 17th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics(COLING-ACL'98), pages 74-78, Montreal(Canada).Baldwin, Breck.
1997.
CogNIAC: Highprecision coreference with limitedknowledge and linguistic resources.
InProceedings of the ACL/EACL Workshop onOperational Factors in Practical, RobustAnaphora Resolution for Unrestricted Texts,pages 38--45, Madrid (Spain).Brennan, Susan E., Marilyn W. Friedman,and Carl J. Pollard.
1987.
A centeringapproach to pronouns.
In Proceedings ofthe25th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL'87), pages155-162, Stanford, CA (USA).Carbonell, Jaime G. and Ralf D. Brown.1988.
Anaphora resolution: Amulti-strategy approach.
In Proceedings ofthe 12th International Conference on565Computational Linguistics Volume 27, Number 4Computational Linguistics (COLING'88),pages 96-101, Budapest (Hungary).Carletta, Jean, Amy Isard, Stephen Isard,Jacqueline C. Kowtko, GwynethDoherty-Sneddon, and Anne H.Anderson.
1997.
The reliability of adialogue structure coding scheme.Computational Linguistics, 23(1):13-32.Connolly, Dennis, John D. Burger, andDavid S. Day.
1994.
A machine learningapproach to anaphoric reference.
InProceedings ofthe International Conference onNew Methods in Language Processing(NEMLAP'94), pages 255-261, Manchester(UK).Dagan, Ido and Alon Itai.
1990.
Automaticprocessing of large corpora for theresolution of anaphora references.
InProceedings ofthe 13th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics(COLING'90), pages 330-332, Helsinki(Finland).Dagan, Ido and Alon Itai.
1991.
A statisticalfilter for resolving pronoun references.
InYishai A. Feldman and Alfred Bruckstein,editors, Artificial Intelligence and ComputerVision.
Elsevier Science Publishers B. V.(North-Holland), Amsterdam, pages125-135.Ferrlindez, Antonio, Manuel Palomar, andLidia Moreno.
1998a.
A computationalapproach to pronominal anaphora,one-anaphora and surface countanaphora.
In Proceedings ofthe SecondColloquium on Discourse Anaphora ndAnaphora Resolution (DAARC'98), pages117-128, Lancaster (UK).Ferr~ndez, Antonio, Manuel Palomar, andLidia Moreno.
1998b.
Anaphoraresolution in unrestricted texts withpartial parsing.
In Proceedings ofthe 36thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics and 17thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING-ACL'98), pages385-391, Montreal (Canada).Ferr~fndez, Antonio, Manuel Palomar, andLidia Moreno.
1999.
An empiricalapproach to Spanish anaphora resolution.Machine Translation, 14(3/4):191-216.Ferr~indez, Antonio and Jestis Peral.
2000.
Acomputational pproach to zero-pronounsin Spanish.
In Proceedings ofthe 38thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL'O0), pages166-172, Hong Kong (China).Ge, Niyu, John Hale, and Eugene Charniak.1998.
A statistical approach to anaphoraresolution.
In Proceedings ofthe SixthWorkshop on Ven d Large Corpora, pages161-170, Montreal (Canada).Grosz, Barbara, Aravind Joshi, and ScottWeinstein.
1983.
Providing a unifiedaccount of definite noun phrases indiscourse.
In Proceedings ofthe 21st AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL'83), pages 44-50,Cambridge, MA (USA).Grosz, Barbara, Aravind Joshi, and ScottWeinstein.
1995.
Centering: A frameworkfor modeling the local coherence ofdiscourse.
Computational Linguistics,21(2):203-225.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1978.
Resolving pronounreferences.
Lingua, 44:311-338.Kennedy, Christopher and BranimirBoguraev.
1996.
Anaphora for everyone:Pronominal anaphora resolution withouta parser.
In Proceedings ofthe 16thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING'96), pages 113-118,Copenhagen (Denmark).Lappin, Shalom and Herbert Leass.
1994.An algorithm for pronominal anaphoraresolution.
Computational Linguistics,20(4):535-561.Mathews, Peter H. 1997.
The Concise OxfordDictionary of Linguistics.
Oxford UniversityPress, Oxford (UK).Mitkov, Ruslan.
1995.
An uncertaintyreasoning approach to anaphoraresolution.
In Proceedings ofthe NaturalLanguage Pacific Rim Symposium (NLPRS"95), pages 149-154, Seoul (Korea).Mitkov, Ruslan.
1998.
Robust pronounresolution with limited knowledge.
InProceedings ofthe 36th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics and17 th International Conference onComputational Linguistics(COLING-ACL'98), pages 869-875,Montreal (Canada).Mitkov, Ruslan and Malgorzata Stys.
1997.Robust reference resolution with limitedknowledge: High precision genre-specificapproach for English and Polish.
InProceedings ofthe International Conference onRecent Advances in Natural LanguageProcessing (RANLP'97), pages 74-81,Tzigov Chark (Bulgaria).Nakaiwa, Hiromi and Satoshi Shirai.
1996.Anaphora resolution of Japanese zeropronouns with deictic reference.
InProceedings ofthe 16th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics(COLING'96), pages 812-817, Copenhagen(Denmark).Okumura, Manabu and Kouji Tamura.
1996.Zero pronoun resolution in Japanesediscourse based on centering theory.
InProceedings ofthe 16th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics566Palomar et al Anaphora Resolution in Spanish Texts(COLING'96), pages 871-876, Copenhagen(Denmark).Palomar, Manuel, Antonio Ferra'ndez, LidiaMoreno, Maximiliano Saiz-Noeda, RafaelMu~oz, Patricio Martfnez-Barco, JestisPeral, and Borja Navarro.
1999.
A robustpartial parsing strategy based on the slotunification grammars.
In Proceedings ofthe6th Conference on Natural LanguageProcessing (TALN'99), pages 263-272,Corsica (France).Paul, Michael, Kazuhide Yamamoto, andEiichiro Sumita.
1999.
Corpus-basedanaphora resolution towards antecedentpreference.
In Proceedings ofthe ACLWorkshop on Coreference and Its Applications,pages 47-52, College Park, MD (USA).Pla, Ferran.
2000.
Etiquetado Ldxico y AndlisisSintdctico Super~'cial Basado en ModelosEstadfsticos.
Ph.D. thesis, ValenciaUniversity of Technology, Valencia(Spain).Proyecto CRATER.
1994-1995.
CorpusResources And Terminology ExtRaction.MLAP-93/20.
http: //www.lllf.uam.es /proyectos/crater.html (page visited on04/17/01).Reinhart, Tanya.
1983.
Anaphora nd SemanticInterpretation.
Croom Hehn Linguisticsseries.
Croom Helm Ltd., Beckenham,Kent (UK).Saiz-Noeda, Maximiliano, Armando Sudrez,and Jestis Peral.
1999.
Propuesta deincorporacidn de informaci6n sem~nticadesde Wordnet alandlisis sintdcticoparcial orientado a la resoluci6n de laan~ffora.
Procesamiento del Lenguaje Natural,25:167-173.Siegel, Sidney and John N. Castellan.
1988.Nonparametric Statistics for the BehavioralSciences.
McGraw-Hill, New York, NY(USA), 2nd edition.Strube, Michael.
1998.
Never look back: Analternative to centering.
In Proceedings ofthe 36th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics and 17thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING-ACL'98), pages1251-1257, Montreal (Canada).Strube, Michael and Udo Hahn.
1999.Functional centering: Groundingreferential coherence in informationstructure.
Computational Linguistics,25(3):309-344.Vieira, Renata.
1998.
Processing of DefiniteDescriptions in Unrestricted Texts.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Edinburgh,Edinburgh (UK).Yamamoto, Kazuhide and Eiichiro Sumita.1998.
Feasibility study for ellipsisresolution in dialogues bymachine-learning technique.
InProceedings ofthe 36th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics and17th International Conference onComputational Linguistics(COLING-ACL'98), pages 385-391,Montreal (Canada).567
