Syllable-Pattern-Based Unknown-Morpheme Segmentation and Estimationfor Hybrid Part-of-Speech Tagging ofKoreanGary Geunbae Lee Jeongwon ChayPohang University of Science andTechnologyPohang University of Science andTechnologyJong-Hyeok LeezPohang University of Science andTechnologyMost errors in Korean morphological analysis and part-of-speech (POS) tagging are causedby unknown morphemes.
This paper presents a syllable-pattern-based generalized unknown-morpheme-estimation method with POSTAG (POStech TAGger),1 which is a statistical andrule-based hybrid POS tagging system.
This method of guessing unknown morphemes is basedon a combination of a morpheme pattern dictionary that encodes general lexical patterns of Koreanmorphemes with a posteriori syllable trigram estimation.
The syllable trigrams help to calculatelexical probabilities of the unknown morphemes and are utilized to search for the best taggingresult.
This method can guess the POS tags of unknown morphemes regardless of their numbersand/or positions in an eojeol (a Korean spacing unit similar to an English word), which is notpossible with other systems for tagging Korean.
In a series of experiments using three differentdomain corpora, the system achieved a 97% tagging accuracy even though 10% of the morphemesin the test corpora were unknown.
It also achieved very high coverage and accuracy of estimationfor all classes of unknown morphemes.1.
IntroductionPart-of-speech (POS) tagging involves many difficult problems, such as insufficientamounts of training data, inherent POS ambiguities, and (most seriously) many typesof unknown words.
Unknown words are ubiquitous in any application and causemajor tagging failures in many cases.
Since Korean is an agglutinative language, itpresents more serious problems with unknown morphemes than with unknown wordsbecause more than one morpheme can be unknown in a single word and morphemesegmentation is usually very difficult. NLP Laboratory, Electrical and Computer Engineering Division, Pohang University of Science andTechnology (POSTECH), Pohang, 790-784, Korea.
E-mail: gblee@postech.ac.kr.y NLP Laboratory, Electrical and Computer Engineering Division, Pohang University of Science andTechnology (POSTECH), Pohang, 790-784, Korea.
E-mail: himen@postech.ac.kr.z NLP Laboratory, Electrical and Computer Engineering Division, Pohang University of Science andTechnology (POSTECH), Pohang, 790-784, Korea.
E-mail: jhlee@postech.ac.kr.1 The binary code of POSTAG is open to the public for research and evaluation purposes athttp://nlp.postech.ac.kr/.
Follow the link OpenResources!DownLoad.c?
2002 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 1Previous techniques for guessing unknown words mostly utilize the guessing rulesto analyze the word features by looking at leading and trailing characters.
Most of thememploy the analysis of trailing characters and other features such as capitalization andhyphenation (Kupiec 1992; Weischedel et al 1993).
Some of them use more morpho-logically oriented word features such as suffixes, prefixes, and character lengths (Brill1995; Voutilainen 1995).
The guessing rules are usually handcrafted using knowledgeof morphology but sometimes are acquired automatically using lexicons and corpora(Brill 1995; Mikheev 1996; Oflazer and Tu?r 1996).
Previously developed methods forguessing unknown morphemes in Korean are not much different from the methodsused for English.
Basically, they rely on the rules that reflect knowledge of Koreanmorphology and word formation.
The usual way of handling unknown morphemes isto guess all the possible POS tags for an unknown morpheme by checking connectablefunctional morphemes in the same eojeol (Kang 1993).2 However, in this way, it is onlypossible to guess probable POS tags for a single unknown morpheme when it occursat the beginning of an eojeol.
Unlike in English, in Korean, more than one unknownmorpheme can appear in a single eojeol because an eojeol can include complex compo-nents such as Chinese characters, Japanese words, and other foreign words.
If an eojeolcontains more than one unknown morpheme or if the unknown morphemes appearin other than first position in the eojeol, all previous methods fail to efficiently estimatethem.
This is the reason why we try to avoid conventional guessing rules using wordmorphology features such as those proposed in Mikheev (1996) and Oflazer and Tu?r(1996).3In this paper, we propose a syllable-pattern-based generalized unknown-morph-eme estimation method using a morpheme pattern dictionary that enables us to treatunknown morphemes in the same way as registered known morphemes, and therebyto guess them regardless of their numbers or positions in an eojeol.
The method forestimating unknown morphemes using the morpheme pattern dictionary in Koreanneeds to be tightly integrated into morphological analysis and POS disambiguationsystems.POS disambiguation has usually been performed by statistical approaches, mainlyusing the hidden Markov model (HMM) in English research communities (Cuttinget al 1992; Kupiec 1992; Weischedel et al 1993).
These approaches are also domi-nant for Korean, with slight improvements to accommodate the agglutinative natureof Korean.
For Korean, early HMM tagging was based on eojeols.
The eojeol-basedtagging model calculates lexical and transition probabilities with eojeols as a unit; itsuffers from severe data sparseness problems since a single eojeol consists of manydifferent morphemes (Lee, Choi, and Kim 1993).
Later, morpheme-based HMM tag-ging was tried; such models assign a single tag to a morpheme regardless of thespace in a sentence.
Morpheme-based tagging can reduce data sparseness problemsbut incurs multiple observation sequences in Viterbi decoding since an eojeol can besegmented in many different ways.
Researchers then tried many ways of reducingcomputation due to multiple observation sequences, such as shared word sequencesand virtual words (Kim, Lim, and Seo 1995) and two-ply HMM for morpheme unitcomputation but restricted within an eojeol (Kim, Im, and Im 1996).
However, sincestatistical approaches take neighboring tags into account only within a limited win-2 An eojeol is a Korean spacing unit (similar to an English word), which usually consists of one or morestem morphemes and a series of functional morphemes.3 Even though Turkish and Finnish are in the same class of agglutinative languages and German alsohas very complex morphological structures, in our view word formation is more diverse and complexin Korean than in these Western languages because of its mix of Oriental and Western culture.54Lee, Cha, and Lee Syllable-Pattern-Based Unknown-Morpheme Estimationdow (usually two or three), sometimes the decision fails to cover important linguisticcontexts necessary for POS disambiguation.
Also, approaches using only statisticalmethods are inappropriate for idiomatic expressions, for which lexical terms needto be directly referenced.
And especially, statistical approaches alone do not sufficefor agglutinative languages, which usually have complex morphological structures.In agglutinative languages, a word usually consists of one or more stem morphemesplus a series of functional morphemes; therefore, each morpheme should receive aPOS tag appropriate to its functional role to cope with the complex morphologicalphenomena in such languages.
Recently, rule-based approaches, which learn symbolictagging rules automatically from a corpus, have been reconsidered, to overcome thelimitations of statistical approaches (Brill 1995).
Some systems even perform POS tag-ging as part of a syntactic analysis process (Voutilainen 1995).
Following the successof transformation-based approaches, attempts have been made to use transformationrules in systems for tagging Korean (Im, Kim, and Im 1996).
However, in general,rule-based approaches alone are not very robust and are not portable enough to beadjusted to new tagsets or new languages.
Also, they usually perform no better thantheir statistical counterparts (Brill 1995).
To gain portability and robustness and alsoto overcome the limited coverage of statistical approaches, we need to somehow com-bine the two approaches to gain the advantages of each.
In this paper, we proposea hybrid method that combines statistical and rule-based approaches to POS disam-biguation and can be tightly coupled with generalized unknown-morpheme-guessingtechniques.2.
Linguistic Characteristics of KoreanKorean is classified as an agglutinative language.
In Korean, an eojeol consists of sev-eral morphemes that have clear-cut morpheme boundaries.
For example, na-neun gam-gi-e geol-lyeoss-dda ?I caught a cold?
consists of 3 eojeols and 7 morphemes:4 na(?I?
)/T+ neun(?auxiliary particle?
)/jS, gam-gi(?cold?
)/MC + e(?adverb and conjunctive parti-cle?
)/jO, geol-li(?catch?
)/DR + eoss(?past tense?
)/eGS + dda(?final ending?)/eGE.
Beloware the characteristics of Korean that must be considered for morphological-level nat-ural language processing and POS tagging. POS tagging of Korean is usually performed on a morpheme basis ratherthan on an eojeol basis.
Accordingly, morphological analysis is essentialto POS tagging because morpheme segmentation is much moreimportant and difficult than POS assignment.
Moreover, morphologicalanalysis should segment eojeols that contain unknown morphemes aswell as known morphemes.
Hence, unknown-morpheme handlingshould be integrated into the morphological analysis process.
Because asingle eojeol can have many possible analyses (e.g., na-neun: na(?I?
)/T +neun(?topic marker?
)/jS, na(?sprout?
)/DR + neun(?adnominal?)/eCNMG,nal(?fly?
)/DI + neun(?adnominal?
)/eCNMG, morpheme segmentation isinherently ambiguous. Korean is a postpositional language with many kinds of noun endings(particles), verb endings, and prefinal verb endings.
It is these functionalmorphemes, rather than the order of eojeols, that determine grammatical4 Here, ?+?
represents a morpheme boundary in an eojeol and ?/?
introduces the POS tag symbols (seeTable 2).55Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 1Table 1Sample distribution of unknown morphemes inKorean.Tag # morphemes Tag # morphemesMC 2,888 (29.7%) S 1,358 (14.0%)MPN 650 (6.7%) B 603 (6.2%)MPP 235 (2.4%) T 50 (0.5%)MPC 56 (0.6%) Symbol 10 (0.1%)MPO 728 (7.5%) Foreign word 3,140 (32.3%)relations such as a noun?s syntactic function, a verb?s tense, aspect,modals, and even modifying relations between eojeols.
For example,ga/jC is a case particle, so the eojeol uri(we)-ga has a subject role due tothe particle ga/jC.
Korean has a clear syllable structure within themorpheme; most nominal content morphemes keep their surface formwhen they are combined with functional morphemes. Korean is basically an SOV language but has relatively free word ordercompared with English.
The weight , in Equation (1) (Section 4.1)reflects the fact that transition probability is less important in Koreanthan in English.
However, Korean does have some word orderconstraints: verbs must appear in sentence-final position, and modifiersmust be placed before the element they modify.
So some orderconstraints must be selectively utilized as contextual information in thePOS tagging process, which is taken well into account in the design oferror correction rules (Section 4.3). Complex spelling changes (irregular conjugations) frequently occurbetween morphemes when two morphemes combine to form an eojeol.These spelling changes make it difficult to segment the originalmorphemes before the POS tag symbols are assigned. The unknown-morpheme problem in Korean differs in some ways fromthe unknown-word problem in English.
In English, it is easy to identifyunknown words because they occur between spaces.
However, inKorean, since unknown morphemes are hidden in an eojeol, we onlyknow that morphological analysis failed in that eojeol; pinpointing theexact unknown morphemes is usually difficult.
This is why, unlike inEnglish, it is not possible to fully guess an unknown morpheme usingonly affixes.
The distribution of POS tags for unknown morphemesextracted from a 130,000-morpheme training corpus (9,718 unknownmorphemes) is shown in Table 1.
The distribution from even a smallcorpus shows that we need to estimate various parts of speech forunknown morphemes rather than simply guess them as nouns.Table 2 shows the tagset that was used in the experiments reported in Section 5.The tagset was selected from hierarchically organized POS tags for Korean.
We definedabout 100 different POS tags, which can be used in morphological analysis as well asin POS tagging.
We also designed over 300 morphotactic adjacency symbols to beused in morpheme connectivity checks for correct morpheme segmentation (to beexplained in the next section).
The POS tags are hierarchically organized symbols56Lee, Cha, and Lee Syllable-Pattern-Based Unknown-Morpheme EstimationTable 2A tagset with 41 tags.Major category Tag DescriptionNominal MC common nounMPN person nameMPC country nameMPP place nameMPO other proper nounMD bound nounT pronounS numeralPredicate DR regular verbDI irregular verbHR regular adjectiveHI irregular adjectiveI i-predicative particleE existential predicateb auxiliary verbModifier G adnounB adverbParticle y predicative particlejC case particlejS auxiliary particlejO adverb and conjunctive particleEnding eGE final endingeGS prefinal endingeCNDI aux conj endingeCNDC quote conj endingeCNMM nominal endingeCNMG adnominal endingeCNB adverbial endingeCC conjunctive endingAffix + prefix?
suffixSpecial symbol su unit symbols?
left parenthesiss?
right parenthesiss.
sentence closers- sentence connections, sentence commasf foreign wordsh Chinese characterso other symbolInterjection K interjection57Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 1that were iteratively refined from the eight major grammatical categories of Korean:nominal, predicate, modifier, particle, ending, affix, special symbol, and interjection.For a given morpheme, the acronym of a path name in the symbol hierarchy up to acertain level is assigned as a POS tag.5 The rest of the detailed hierarchies, which arerelated only to morpheme connectivity, are independently assigned as morphotacticadjacency symbols.
Therefore, we can use either full or partial path names as POS tagsin order to adjust the total number of tags.
The size of the tagset can thus be adaptedby refining grammatical categories that are more pertinent to a given application.
Forexample, for text-indexing applications, we refine nominals more than predicates sinceindex terms are usually nominals in these applications.3.
Unknown-Morpheme Segmentation during Morphological AnalysisThe agglutinative nature of Korean inevitably requires doing morphological analysisbefore POS tagging.
Morphological analysis, which segments input texts into morpho-tactically connectable morphemes and assigns all possible POS tags to each morphemeby looking them up in a morpheme dictionary, is a basic step in natural language pro-cessing.Our morphological analysis follows three general steps (Sproat 1992): morphemesegmentation, recovering original morphemes from spelling changes, and morpho-tactic modeling.
Input texts are scanned from left to right, character by character,6to be matched with morphemes in a morpheme dictionary.
The morpheme dictio-nary has a trie structured index for fast matching.
It also has an independent entryfor each variant surface form (called allomorph) of the original morpheme so theoriginal morphemes can easily be reconstructed from spelling changes (see Table 3).For morphotactic modeling, we used the POS tags and the morphotactic adjacencysymbols in the dictionary.
The POS tags provide information about morpheme class,while the morphotactic adjacency symbols provide information about grammaticalconnectivity between morphemes needed to form an eojeol.
The full hierarchy of POStags and morphotactic adjacency symbols is encoded in the morpheme dictionaryfor each morpheme.
Besides the morpheme dictionary, to model morphemes?
con-nectability to one another the system uses an independent morpheme connectivity ta-ble that encodes all the connectable pairs of morpheme groups using the morphemes?tags and morphotactic adjacency symbol patterns.
After an input eojeol is segmentedby trie indexed dictionary searches, the morphological analysis checks whether eachsegmentation is grammatically connectable by looking in the morpheme connectivitytable.For unknown-morpheme segmentation, we developed a generalized method forestimating unknown morphemes regardless of their position and number.
Using amorpheme pattern dictionary, our system can look up unknown morphemes exactlythe same way it looks up known registered morphemes.
The morpheme pattern dic-tionary covers all the necessary syllable patterns for unknown morphemes, includingcommon nouns, proper nouns, adverbs, regular and irregular verbs, regular and ir-regular adjectives, and special symbols for foreign words.
The lexical patterns formorphemes are collected from previous studies (Kang 1993) where the constraints onKorean syllable patterns regarding morpheme connectivity are well described.
Table 4shows some sample entries in the morpheme pattern dictionary, where Z, V, ?*?
are5 For example, nominal(M):proper-noun(P):person-name(N) is a three-level path name.6 The character sequence in na-neun is n, a, n, eu, n.58Lee, Cha, and Lee Syllable-Pattern-Based Unknown-Morpheme EstimationTable 3Examples of morpheme dictionary entries.
MCC is a full POS tag thatidentifies a common noun consisting of Chinese characters.
MCK identifies acommon noun consisting only of Korean characters.
DIgeo-la represents ageo-la irregular verb, and HIl represents an l irregular adjective.
Yu representsthat ga-gong has a final consonant (ng).
D-ha, H-ha, and D-doe are morphotacticadjacency symbols for predicate particles.
Nominals that have a D-ha as amorphotactic adjacency symbol can be connected with predicate particles, andthey play the role of a verb or adjective.
In verb or adjective, gyu represents aregular form of an irregular conjugation, bul represents an irregular form ofan irregular conjugation.
Eo is a morphotactic adjacency symbol for vowelharmony when connecting with endings.
Chug-yag represents that a particularverb (or adjective) contains the special contracted ending.
?>?
is a specialsymbol for adjacent direction (?>?= right connection; ?<?= left connection).POS-tag<original form> (Allomorph) [Morphotactic adjacency symbols]MCC<ga-gong> (ga-gong) [yu>D-ha>H-ha>D-doe>]MCK<geo-leum> (geo-leum) [yu>D-ha>]DIgeo-la<geon-neo-ga> (geon-neo-ga) [gyu>chug-yag>]DId<al-a-deud> (al-a-deud) [gyu>]DId<al-a-deud> (al-a-deul) [bul>eo>]DIs<heu-li-jeos> (heu-li-jeo) [bul>eo>]DIs<heu-li-jeos> (heu-li-jeos) [gyu>]HIl<ga-neul> (ga-neu) [bul>]HIl<ga-neul> (ga-neul) [gyu>eo>]Table 4Sample entries in the morpheme pattern dictionary.
Symbol meanings areexplained in Table 3.POS-tag<original form> (Allomorph) [Morphotactic adjacency symbols]HIl<ZV*gal> (ZV*gal) [gyu>eo>]HIl<ZV*gal> (ZV*ga) [bul>]HIb<ZV*ZVb> (ZV*u) [bul>]HIb<ZV*ZVb> (ZV*weo) [chug-yag>]HIb<ZV*ZVb> (ZV*wa) [chug-yag>]DIs<ZV*jeos> (ZV*jeos) [gyu>]DIs<ZV*jeos> (ZV*jeo) [bul>eo>]DId<ZV*deud> (ZV*deud) [gyu>]DId<ZV*deud> (ZV*deul) [bul>eo>]metacharacters that indicate a consonant, a vowel, and any number of Korean charac-ters, respectively.
For example, go-ma-weo ?thanks?, which is a morpheme and an eojeolat the same time, is matched to (ZV*weo) (shown in Table 4, where it is b, irregular ad-jective (HIb)) in the morpheme pattern dictionary, which allows the system to recoverits original morpheme form go-mab.Once the unknown morphemes are identified and recovered using the patterndictionary, when checking the unknown morphemes to see if they are connectable,the system can use the same information about adjacent morphemes in the unknownmorphemes?
eojeol that it would use if they were known morphemes.
This is the reasonwhy our method can be called ?generalized?
and can identify unknown morphemesregardless of their position and number in an eojeol.
The actual POS estimation is inte-grated into the POS tagging process that will be described in Section 4.2.
The essential59Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 1morphologicalanalyzerstatisticalPOS taggerpost error-correctormorphemedictionarymorphemepatterndictionarymorphemeconnectivitytableInputsentencelexical /transitionprobabilitiessyllabletrigrammorphemegraphmorphemegraphtaggedsentenceerror-correctingrulesFigure 1Statistical and rule-based hybrid architecture for POS tagging of Korean.idea of the morpheme pattern dictionary is to pre-collect all the possible general lexicalpatterns of Korean morphemes and encode each lexical syllable pattern with all thecandidate POS tags.
Therefore, the system can assign initial POS tags to each unknownmorpheme simply by matching the syllable patterns in the pattern dictionary.
In thisway, unlike previous approaches, ours does not need to incorporate a special rule-based unknown-morpheme-handling module into its morphological analyzer, and allthe possible POS tags can be assigned to unknown morphemes just as they are toknown morphemes.4.
A Statistical and Rule-Based Hybrid Tagging ModelFigure 1 shows a proposed hybrid architecture for POS tagging of Korean with syllable-pattern-based generalized unknown-morpheme guessing.
It has three major compo-nents: the morphological analyzer with unknown-morpheme handler, the statisticalPOS tagger, and the rule-based error corrector.
The morphological analyzer segmentsthe morphemes from input eojeols and reconstructs the original morphemes fromspelling changes by recovering the irregular conjugations.
It also assigns all possi-ble POS tags to each morpheme by consulting a morpheme dictionary.
The unknown-morpheme handler, which is tightly integrated into the morphological analyzer, assignsinitial POS tags to morphemes that are not registered in the dictionary, as explainedin the previous section.
The statistical POS tagger runs the Viterbi algorithm (Forney1973) on the morpheme graph to search for the optimal tag sequence for POS dis-ambiguation.
To remedy the defects of a statistical POS tagger, we developed an aposteriori error correction mechanism.
The error corrector is a rule-based transformer60Lee, Cha, and Lee Syllable-Pattern-Based Unknown-Morpheme Estimation(Brill 1995), and it corrects mistagged morphemes by consulting lexical patterns andnecessary contextual information.4.1 The Statistical POS TaggerThe statistical POS tagging model takes the morpheme graph (output of the morpho-logical analyzer) and selects the best morpheme and POS tag sequence7 for sentencesrepresented in the morpheme graph.
The morpheme graph is a compact way of repre-senting multiple morpheme sequences for a sentence.
Each morpheme?s tag is a nodein the graph and its morpheme connectivity is a link.
Our statistical tagging model ismodified from the standard bigrams (Cutting et al 1992) using Viterbi search plus on-the-fly extra computing of lexical probabilities for unknown morphemes.
The equationused for the statistical tagging model is a modified bigram model with left-to-rightsearch,T = argmax TnYi=1Pr(ti j ti?1)Pr(ti j mi)Pr(ti)(1)where T is an optimal tag sequence that maximizes the forward Viterbi scores.Pr(ti j ti?1) is a bigram tag transition probability and Pr(tijmi)Pr(ti) is a modified morphemelexical probability.
and  are weights and are set at 0.4 and 0.6, respectively, whichmeans that lexical probability is more important than transition probability given therelatively free word order of Korean.
This equation was finally selected after extensiveexperiments using the following six equations:T = argmax TnYi=1Pr(ti j ti?1)Pr(mi j ti) (2)T = argmax TnYi=1Pr(ti j ti?1)Pr(mi j ti) (3)T = argmax TnYi=1Pr(ti j ti?1)Pr(ti j mi) (4)T = argmax TnYi=1Pr(ti j ti?1)Pr(ti j mi) (5)T = argmax TnYi=1Pr(ti j ti?1)Pr(ti j mi)Pr(ti)(6)T = argmax TnYi=1Pr(ti j ti?1)Pr(ti j mi)Pr(ti)(7)In the experiments, we used the 10,204-morpheme training corpus from the KemongEncyclopedia.8 Table 5 shows the tagging performance of each equation.Training of the statistical tagging model requires a parameter estimation processfor two different parameters, that is, morpheme lexical probabilities and bigram tagtransition probabilities.
Several studies show that using as much tagged material as7 Because a Korean eojeol can be segmented in many different ways, selecting the best morphemesegmentation sequence is as important as selecting the best POS sequence in POS tagging.8 Provided by the Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI).61Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 1Table 5Tagging performance (all in %) of each equation.
The ?eojeol?
row showseojeol-unit tagging performance, and the ?morpheme?
row showsmorpheme-unit performance.Eq.
(2) Eq.
(3) Eq.
(4) Eq.
(5) Eq.
(6) Eq.
(7) (Eq.
(1))Eojeol 86.80 90.48 89.40 89.62 91.73 92.48Morpheme 91.32 94.93 94.40 94.48 95.77 96.12possible for training gives much better performance than unsupervised training usingthe Baum-Welch reestimation algorithm (Merialdo 1994).
We therefore decided to usesupervised training using tagged corpora with relative frequency counts.
The threenecessary probabilities can be estimated as in Equations (8)?
(10),Pr(ti j mi)  f (ti j mi) =N(mi, ti)N(mi)(8)Pr(ti)  f (ti) =N(ti)PNtsn=1 N(tn)(9)Pr(ti j ti?1)  f (ti j ti?1) =N(ti?1, ti)N(ti?1)(10)where N(mi, ti) indicates the total number of occurrences of the morpheme mi togetherwith the specific tag ti, while N(mi) indicates the total number of occurrences of themorpheme mi in the tagged training corpus.
Nts indicates the total number of POS tagsin the tagset.
N(ti?1, ti) and N(ti?1) can be interpreted similarly for two consecutivetags ti?1 and ti.A beam search strategy is utilized for high-speed tagging.
For each morpheme inthe sentence, the highest probability, Ph, of the tag is recorded.
All other tags associatedwith the same morpheme must have probabilities greater than Ph?
for some constantbeam size ?
; otherwise, they are discarded.
The beam may introduce search errors,but, in practice, search efficiency can be greatly improved with virtually no loss ofaccuracy.4.2 Lexical Probability Estimation for Unknown-Morpheme GuessingThe lexical probabilities for unknown morphemes cannot be precalculated using Equa-tion (8) since we assume the unknown morphemes do not appear in the training cor-pus, so a special on-the-fly estimation method must be applied.
We suggest usingsyllable trigrams since Korean syllables can play an important role in restricting unitsfor guessing the POS of a morpheme.
The lexical probability Pr(tijmi)Pr(ti) for unknown mor-phemes can be estimated using the frequency of syllable trigram products accordingto the formula in (11)?
(13) (Nagata 1994),m = e1e2 : : : en (11)Pr(t j m)Pr(t) Pr t(e1 j #, #)Pr t(e2 j #, e1)nYi=3Pr t(ei j ei?2, ei?1)62Lee, Cha, and Lee Syllable-Pattern-Based Unknown-Morpheme Estimation Pr(# j en?1, en) (12)Pr t(ei j ei?2, ei?1)  ft(ei j ei?2, ei?1)+ ft(ei j ei?1)+ ft(ei) (13)where m is a morpheme, e is a syllable, t is a POS tag, ?#?
is a morpheme boundarysymbol, and ft(ei j ei?2, ei?1) is a frequency datum for tag t with co-occurrence syllablesei?2, ei?1, and ei.
Trigram probabilities are smoothed by Equation (13) to cope with thedata sparseness problem.
For example, Park-jong-man is the name of a person, so it isan unknown morpheme.
The lexical probability that Park-jong-man should be assignedthe tag MPN (person name) is estimated using the following formula:Pr(MPN j Park ?
jong ?man)Pr(MPN ) PrMPN (Park j #, #) PrMPN (jong j #, Park) PrMPN (man j Park , jong) PrMPN (# j jong , man) (14)In Park-jong-man, Park is usually a family name.
If the first position of this mor-pheme is a family name, the probability that MPN is the correct tag becomes higherthan the probability that the other tags are correct.
Table 6 shows the distribution ofPr(Park j #, #) for each possible tag.
In Equation (14), PrMPN (Park j #, #) representsthe popularity of the tag MPN for the morpheme Park-jong-man.All the trigrams for Korean syllables were precalculated and stored in the databaseand are applied with the candidate tags during the unknown-morpheme POS guessingand smoothing portion of the statistical tagging process.4.3 A Posteriori Error Correction RulesStatistical morpheme tagging is widely known to cover only a limited range of con-textual information.
Moreover, it cannot refer to lexical patterns as a context for POSdisambiguation.
As mentioned earlier, because Korean eojeols have very complex mor-phological structures, it is necessary to look at the functional morphemes selectively todetermine the grammatical relations between eojeols.
For these reasons, we designederror correction rules for eojeols to compensate for the estimation and modeling errorsTable 6The distribution of Pr(Park j #, #) for each tag.MC MPN MPC MPP MPO TNo.
of ?##Park?
125 2081 0 0 8 0No.
of ?##?
115,841 25,915 589 1,209 50,671 4,255Pr(Park j #, #) 0.001 0.080 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000B DR DI HR HINo.
of ?##Park?
5 17 2 0 9No.
of ?##?
9,169 21,119 13,555 2,243 5,217Pr(Park j #, #) 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.00163Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 1Table 7Examples of rule schemata used to extract the error correction rules automatically from thetagged corpus.
The POSTAG system has about 24 rule schemata of this form.Rule schema Acronym descriptionN1FT the tag of the first morpheme (FT) of the next eojeol (N1)P1LT the tag of the last morpheme (LT) of the previous eojeol (P1)N2FT the tag of the first morpheme (FT) of the eojeol after the next one (N2)N3FT the tag of the first morpheme (FT) of the second eojeol after the next one (N3)P1LM the lexical form of the last morpheme (LM) of the previous eojeol (P1)P1FM the lexical form of the first morpheme (FM) of the previous eojeol (P1)N1FM the lexical form of the first morpheme (FM) of the next eojeol (N1)[current eojeol or morpheme] [rule schemata, referenced morpheme or tag]!
[corrected eojeol or morpheme]Figure 2Error correction rule format.of the statistical morpheme tagger.
However, designing the error correction rules withknowledge engineering is tedious and error prone.
Instead, we adopted Brill?s ap-proach (Brill 1995) whereby the error correction rules are learned automatically from asmall amount of tagged corpus.
Fortunately, Brill showed that one does not normallyneed a large amount of tagged corpus to extract the symbolic tagging rules comparedwith statistical tagging.
Table 7 shows examples of carefully designed rule schemataused to extract the error correction rules for Korean, where a rule schema designatesthe context of rule applications (i.e., the morpheme position and the lexical/tag deci-sion in a context eojeol).The form of the rules that can be automatically learned using the schemata inTable 7 is shown in Figure 2, where [current eojeol or morpheme] consists of the mor-pheme (with current tag) sequence in an eojeol, and [corrected eojeol or morpheme]consists of the morpheme (with corrected tag) sequence in the same eojeol.
For exam-ple, the rule [meog(?Chinese ink0)=MC + eun=jS ][N1FT , MC ] !
[meog(?to eat0)=DR +eun=eCNMG ] says that the current eojeol was statistically tagged as a common noun(MC) plus auxiliary particle (jS), but if the next eojeol?s (N1) first-position morphemetag (FT) is also MC, the eojeol should be tagged as a regular verb (DR) plus ad-nominal ending (eCNMG).
This statistical error is caused by the ambiguity of themorpheme meog, which has two meanings: ?Chinese ink?
(noun) and ?to eat?
(verb).Since morpheme segmentation is very difficult in Korean, many tagging errors alsoarise from the morpheme segmentation errors.
Our error correction rules can also copewith these morpheme segmentation errors by correcting the errors in the whole eojeolat once.
For example, the following rule can correct morpheme segmentation errors:[jul=MC + i ?
go=jO ][P1LM , ] !
[jul ?
i=DR + go=eCC ].
This rule says that the eojeoljul-i-go is usually segmented as a common noun, jul ?string, rope?, plus the adverband conjunctive particle i-go, but when the morpheme eul appears before the eojeol,it should be segmented as a regular verb, jul-i ?shrink?, plus the conjunctive endinggo.
This kind of segmentation error correction can greatly enhance the tagging perfor-mance.
The rules are automatically learned by comparing the correctly tagged corpuswith the output of the statistical tagger.
The training is leveraged so the error correc-64Lee, Cha, and Lee Syllable-Pattern-Based Unknown-Morpheme EstimationTable 8Performance of the statistical tagger (all in %) onthree document sets, using three progressivelydegraded versions of the tagger.Document set Version 1 Version 2 Version 3Set 1 96.4 89.5 87.1Set 2 96.0 92.8 89.0Set 3 96.7 88.7 84.8Total 96.4 90.3 87.0tion rules are gradually learned as the statistically tagged texts are corrected by therules learned so far.5.
Experimental Results5.1 Embedded Performance with Hybrid POS TaggingFor morphological analysis and POS tagging experiments, we used a 130,000-morph-eme balanced training corpus for statistical parameter estimation and a 50,000-morph-eme corpus for learning the a posteriori error correction rules.
The training corpus wascollected from various sources such as Internet documents, encyclopedias, newspapers,and school textbooks.For test sets, we carefully selected three different document sets, aiming for broadcoverage.
The first document set (Set 1: 25,299 morphemes, 1,338 sentences), whichwas collected from the Kemong Encyclopedia,9 a hotel reservation dialogue corpus,10and assorted Internet documents, contains about 10% unknown morphemes.
The sec-ond document set (Set 2: 15,250 morphemes, 574 sentences), which consists solely ofInternet documents from assorted domains, such as broadcasting scripts and news-papers, contains about 8.5% unknown morphemes.
The third document set (Set 3:20,919 morphemes, 555 sentences), which comes from a standard Korean documentset called KTSET 2.011 including academic articles and electronic newspapers, con-tains about 14% unknown morphemes (mainly technical jargon).
Table 8 shows oursystem?s statistical tagging performance for these three document sets, using threeprogressively degraded versions of the tagging mechanism.
Version 1 is a full versionusing the statistical method.
Version 2 is a somewhat degraded version that does notuse the system?s unknown-morpheme guessing capability but treats all the segmentedunknown morphemes as nouns (the typical method of estimation).
Version 3 is an evenmore degraded version that rejects all unknown morphemes as tagging failures; thisversion does not even perform unknown-morpheme segmentation during morpho-logical analysis.
This experiment verifies the effectiveness of our unknown-morphemesegmentation and guessing techniques, as shown by the sharp performance dropsbetween Versions 1, 2, and 3.
As another experiment showed, the automatically ac-quired a posteriori error correction rules also proved to be useful.
In this experiment,two versions of the hybrid tagger were tested on the three document sets.
Version 1was the full POSTAG system with unknown-morpheme segmentation, guessing, and9 From the Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI).10 From Sogang University, Seoul, Korea.11 From KT (Korea Telecom).65Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 1Table 9Performance of the hybrid tagger (allin %) on three document sets, usingtwo versions of the tagger.Document set Version 1 Version 2Set 1 97.2 96.4Set 2 96.9 96.0Set 3 97.4 96.7Total 97.2 96.4Table 10Unknown-morpheme estimation performance(all in %).
Experiments were performed onthree different document sets as before.
#UKMdesignates the number of unknown morphemesin each document set and their percentage.Recall (Rec.)
measures the coverage of theestimation and precision (Pre.)
demonstrates itsaccuracy.Document set #UKM Rec.
Pre.Set 1 2,531 (10.0%) 93.9 94.8Set 2 1,303 (8.5%) 92.9 88.9Set 3 2,889 (13.8%) 98.0 85.5Total 6,723 (10.8%) 94.9 89.7rule-based error correction.
Version 2 did not employ a posteriori error correction rules(the same system as Version 1 in the first experiment).
Performance dropped betweenVersion 1 and Version 2 (see Table 9); however, the drop rates were mild due to theperformance saturation at Version 1, which means that our statistical tagger alonealready achieves state-of-the-art performance for tagging of Korean morphemes.5.2 Unknown-Morpheme Segmentation and Guessing PerformanceTo see the independent performance of unknown-morpheme handling more precisely(explained in Sections 3 and 4.2), we separated the unknown-morpheme performancefrom hybrid tagging experiments.
Using the same test corpus, we measured the cover-age and correctness of our unknown-morpheme estimation techniques.
Table 10 showsthe results, which were evaluated by the metrics defined as follows:Recall =#unknown morphemes detected#unknown morphemes(segmentation performance)Precision =#unknown morphemes correctly estimated#unknown morphemes detected(guessing performance)When the morphological analyzer meets an unknown morpheme, it is importantto detect first whether it is unknown or not, because sometimes, due to incorrectsegmentation, an unknown morpheme can be incorrectly processed as a known one.Our system reached an average recall level of 94.9%.
Once the unknown morphemesare detected, the correct POS needs to be estimated.
Our system tries to guess the POS66Lee, Cha, and Lee Syllable-Pattern-Based Unknown-Morpheme EstimationTable 11Unknown-morpheme estimation performance (all in %) for each POS tag.
N/Ameans the morpheme with the corresponding tag does not appear in thecorpus.
Recall (Rec.)
measures the coverage of the estimation, and precision(Pre.)
demonstrates its accuracy.Set 1 Set 2 Set 3 TotalPOS tag Rec.
Pre.
Rec.
Pre.
Rec.
Pre.
Rec.
Pre.MC 96.9 95.4 94.5 91.7 93.9 72.5 95.1 86.5MPN 80.0 86.7 87.4 95.0 100.0 100.0 89.1 93.9MPC 54.3 73.7 72.7 37.5 N/A N/A 42.3 37.1MPP 75.2 63.3 86.9 75.0 100.0 100.0 87.4 79.4MPO 79.4 79.4 94.8 68.3 100.0 93.8 91.4 79.7B 87.9 100.0 42.9 66.7 100.0 100.0 76.9 88.9T N/A N/A 100.0 100.0 N/A N/A 100.0 100.0S 99.8 100.0 99.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 99.6 100.0Foreign word 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0Special symbol 100.0 100.0 N/A N/A 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0of every open class item including common nouns, proper nouns, pronouns, numbers,adverbs, and others.12 The average precision of 89.7% reflects very accurate guessingconsidering the range of POSs that need to be estimated.
Table 11 shows the system?sunknown-morpheme guessing performance for each POS tag.To show the pattern dictionary?s utility, we conducted another experiment in whichwe gradually reduced the morpheme dictionary size to see the smooth hybrid taggingperformance (same as in Table 9) drops.
As the morpheme dictionary gets smaller,POSTAG becomes more dependent on the morpheme pattern dictionary and also onthe unknown-morpheme estimation process.
From the full dictionary (with 65,000nouns), we randomly deleted 5,000 nouns step by step for this series of experiments.
(We deleted only nouns because noun estimation is the best arena for showing the sys-tem?s unknown-morpheme estimation power.)
Figure 3 shows the results.
Even if thePOSTAG system relies heavily on unknown-morpheme estimation instead of on moreaccurate dictionary lookups, the performance drop is very slow.
This result explainswhy POSTAG can be used on open domain materials such as Internet documents evenwhen only a small morpheme dictionary is available.6.
ConclusionThis paper presents a pattern-dictionary-based unknown-morpheme estimation methodfor generalized and powerful unknown-morpheme segmentation and guessing for ahybrid POS tagging system.
Generalized unknown-morpheme handling is a new andpowerful idea that adopts a morpheme pattern dictionary and syllable-based lexicalprobability estimation.
The morpheme pattern dictionary enables the system to seg-ment unknown morphemes in the same way as registered morphemes without anyseparate rules for Korean, and thereby to handle them regardless of their numbersor positions in an eojeol.
The paper also presents an error-corrective statistical and12 Pronouns, numbers, and adverbs may be considered as closed classes.
However, in real-world corpora,we frequently find unexpectedly coined terms in these classes since Korean word formation is affectedby very diverse sources such as foreign words, old Chinese words, archaic pure-Korean words, and soon.67Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 190929496981000 2 4 6 8 10 12?set1??set2??set3?
?total?Figure 3Hybrid tagging performance change (all in %), showing the utility of the pattern dictionary.Experiments were performed on three different document sets as before.
The x-axis designatesthe number of deletion steps whereby the morpheme dictionary was decreased (by 5,000s)from its full size of 65,000 nouns (Step 0) to 5,000 nouns (Step 12).rule-based hybrid POS tagging method that exhibits many novel features such as anexperiment-based statistical model for Korean, rule-based error correction, and hier-archically expandable tagsets.
The POSTAG system was developed to test these novelideas, especially for agglutinative languages such as Korean.
(Japanese, being similarto Korean in linguistic characteristics, will be a good target for testing these ideas.
)Unlike previous systems, POSTAG is a hybrid tagging system; such a system has neverbeen tried before, but it turns out to be most suitable for agglutinative languages suchas Korean.
POSTAG mainly applies a state-of-the-art HMM tagger for morphemesbut considers multiple observations in the Viterbi score calculation.
Because of thecomplexity of the morpheme sequence in a Korean eojeol, a morpheme-based HMM?stagging accuracy is relatively low for Korean, compared with its accuracy for English.POSTAG compensates extremely well for the limitations of HMMs by rule-based errorcorrection.
The error correction rules are automatically learned to selectively correctHMM tagging errors.
Similar hybrid methods have been tried for English, but theyintegrate HMM tagging and rule-based tagging at the same level (Tapanainen andVoutilainen 1994).
POSTAG integrates morphological analysis with the generalized68Lee, Cha, and Lee Syllable-Pattern-Based Unknown-Morpheme Estimationunknown-morpheme segmentation so that unknown morphemes can be processed inthe same manner as registered morphemes during tagging.
POSTAG also employshierarchical tagsets that are flexible enough to expand/shrink according to the givenapplication.
The hierarchical tagset is a novel idea.
Most tagging systems for Koreanhave applied flat, fixed tagsets and have suffered from using varying tagsets in variousapplications.
However, POSTAG?s tagsets, based on the over 100 finely differentiatedPOS symbols for Korean are hierarchically organized and are flexibly reorganizable ac-cording to the application at hand.
The hierarchical tagsets can be mapped to any otherexisting tagset as long as they are fairly well classified and therefore can encourage cor-pus sharing in the Korean-tagging community.
POSTAG is constantly being improvedthrough expansion of its morpheme dictionary, pattern dictionary, and tagged cor-pus for statistical and rule-based learning.
Since the generalized unknown-morphemehandling is integrated into the system, POSTAG proves to be a good tagger for opendomain applications such as Internet indexing, filtering, and summarization, and weare now developing a Web indexer using POSTAG technology.AcknowledgmentsThis project was partly supported byKOSEF (teukjeongkicho #970-1020-301-3,1997.9-2000.8) and a Ministry of EducationBK21 program awarded to the Electricaland Computer Engineering Division ofPOSTECH.
We would like to thankJunHyeok Shim for coding theunknown-morpheme estimationexperiments.
An earlier version of thispaper was presented at the 6th Workshopon Very Large Corpora in Montreal, 15?16August 1998.ReferencesBrill, E. 1995.
Transformation-basederror-driven learning and naturallanguage processing: A case study inpart-of-speech tagging.
ComputationalLinguistics, 21:543?565.Cutting, D., J. Kupiec, J. Pedersen, and P.Sibun.
1992.
A practical part-of-speechtagger.
In Proceedings of the 3rd Conferenceon Applied Natural Language Processing,pages 133?140.Forney, G. 1973.
The Viterbi algorithm.Proceedings of the IEEE, 61:268?278.Im, H. S., J. D. Kim, and H. C. Im.
1996.Transformation rule-based taggingconsidering Korean characteristics.
InProceedings of the Spring Conference of the AISIG Meeting of the Korean Information ScienceSociety, pages 3?10.
(Written in Korean.
)Kang, S. S. 1993.
Korean MorphologicalAnalysis Using Syllable Information andMultiple-Word Units.
Ph.D. thesis,Department of Computer Engineering,Seoul National University.
(Written inKorean.
)Kim, J. D., H. S. Im, and H. C. Im.
1996.Morpheme-based Korean part-of-speechtagging model considering eojeol-unitcontexts.
In Proceedings of the SpringConference of the Korean Cognitive ScienceSociety, pages 97?106.
(Written in Korean.
)Kim, J. H., C. S. Lim, and J. Seo.
1995.
Anefficient Korean part-of-speech taggingusing a hidden Markov model.
Journal ofthe Korean Information Science Society,22:136?146.
(Written in Korean.
)Kupiec, J.
1992.
Robust part-of-speechtagging using a hidden Markov model.Computer Speech and Language, 6:225?242.Lee, U. J., K. S. Choi, and G. C. Kim.
1993.Korean text-tagging system.
In Proceedingsof the Spring Conference of the KoreanInformation Science Society, pages 805?808.
(Written in Korean.
)Merialdo, B.
1994.
Tagging English text witha probabilistic model.
ComputationalLinguistics, 20:155?171.Mikheev, A.
1996.
Unsupervised learning ofword-category guessing rules.
InProceedings of the 34th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for the Computational Linguistics,pages 327?334.Nagata, M. 1994.
A stochastic Japanesemorphological analyzer using aforward-DP backward-A N-best searchalgorithm.
In Proceedings of the 15thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pages 201?207.Oflazer, K. and G. Tu?r.
1996.
Combininghand-crafted rules and unsupervisedlearning in constraint-basedmorphological disambiguation.
InProceedings of the Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing,pages 69?81.69Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 1Sproat, R. 1992.
Morphology and Computation.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Tapanainen, P. and A. Voutilainen.
1994.Tagging accurately?don?t guess if youknow.
In Proceedings of the Conference onApplied Natural Language Processing,pages 149?156.Voutilainen, A.
1995.
A syntax-basedpart-of-speech analyzer.
In Proceedings ofthe 7th Conference of the European Chapter ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 157?164.Weischedel, R., M. Meteer, R. Schwartz, L.Rawshaw, and J. Ralmucci.
1993.
Copingwith ambiguity and unknown wordsthrough probabilistic models.Computational Linguistics, 19:359?382.70
