c?
2002 Association for Computational LinguisticsSummarizing Scientific Articles:Experiments with Relevance andRhetorical StatusSimone Teufel?
Marc Moens?Cambridge University Rhetorical Systems and University ofEdinburghIn this article we propose a strategy for the summarization of scientific articles that concentrateson the rhetorical status of statements in an article: Material for summaries is selected in such away that summaries can highlight the new contribution of the source article and situate it withrespect to earlier work.We provide a gold standard for summaries of this kind consisting of a substantial corpus ofconference articles in computational linguistics annotated with human judgments of the rhetoricalstatus and relevance of each sentence in the articles.
We present several experiments measuringour judges?
agreement on these annotations.We also present an algorithm that, on the basis of the annotated training material, selectscontent from unseen articles and classifies it into a fixed set of seven rhetorical categories.
Theoutput of this extraction and classification system can be viewed as a single-document summaryin its own right; alternatively, it provides starting material for the generation of task-orientedand user-tailored summaries designed to give users an overview of a scientific field.1.
IntroductionSummarization systems are often two-phased, consisting of a content selection stepfollowed by a regeneration step.
In the first step, text fragments (sentences or clauses)are assigned a score that reflects how important or contentful they are.
The highest-ranking material can then be extracted and displayed verbatim as ?extracts?
(Luhn1958; Edmundson 1969; Paice 1990; Kupiec, Pedersen, and Chen 1995).
Extracts areoften useful in an information retrieval environment since they give users an idea asto what the source document is about (Tombros and Sanderson 1998; Mani et al 1999),but they are texts of relatively low quality.
Because of this, it is generally accepted thatsome kind of postprocessing should be performed to improve the final result, byshortening, fusing, or otherwise revising the material (Grefenstette 1998; Mani, Gates,and Bloedorn 1999; Jing and McKeown 2000; Barzilay et al 2000; Knight and Marcu2000).The extent to which it is possible to do postprocessing is limited, however, bythe fact that contentful material is extracted without information about the generaldiscourse context in which the material occurred in the source text.
For instance, asentence describing the solution to a scientific problem might give the main contri-?
Simone Teufel, Computer Laboratory, Cambridge University, JJ Thomson Avenue, Cambridge,CB3 OFD, England.
E-mail: Simone.Teufel@cl.cam.ac.uk?
Marc Moens, Rhetorical Systems and University of Edinburgh, 2 Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh, EH8 9LS,Scotland.
E-mail: marc@cogsci.ed.ac.uk410Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4bution of the paper, but it might also refer to a previous approach that the authorscriticize.
Depending on its rhetorical context, the same sentence should be treated verydifferently in a summary.
We propose in this article a method for sentence and con-tent selection from source texts that adds context in the form of information about therhetorical role the extracted material plays in the source text.
This added contextualinformation can then be used to make the end product more informative and morevaluable than sentence extracts.Our application domain is the summarization of scientific articles.
Summariza-tion of such texts requires a different approach from, for example, that used in thesummarization of news articles.
For example, Barzilay, McKeown, and Elhadad (1999)introduce the concept of information fusion, which is based on the identification of re-current descriptions of the same events in news articles.
This approach works wellbecause in the news domain, newsworthy events are frequently repeated over a shortperiod of time.
In scientific writing, however, similar ?events?
are rare: The main focusis on new scientific ideas, whose main characteristic is their uniqueness and differencefrom previous ideas.Other approaches to the summarization of news articles make use of the typicaljournalistic writing style, for example, the fact that the most newsworthy informationcomes first; as a result, the first few sentences of a news article are good candidatesfor a summary (Brandow, Mitze, and Rau 1995; Lin and Hovy 1997).
The structureof scientific articles does not reflect relevance this explicitly.
Instead, the introductionoften starts with general statements about the importance of the topic and its historyin the field; the actual contribution of the paper itself is often given much later.The length of scientific articles presents another problem.
Let us assume that ouroverall summarization strategy is first to select relevant sentences or concepts, andthen to synthesize summaries using this material.
For a typical 10- to 20-sentencenews wire story, a compression to 20% or 30% of the source provides a reasonableinput set for the second step.
The extracted sentences are still thematically connected,and concepts in the sentences are not taken completely out of context.
In scientific ar-ticles, however, the compression rates have to be much higher: Shortening a 20-pagejournal article to a half-page summary requires a compression to 2.5% of the original.Here, the problematic fact that sentence selection is context insensitive does make aqualitative difference.
If only one sentence per two pages is selected, all informationabout how the extracted sentences and their concepts relate to each other is lost; with-out additional information, it is difficult to use the selected sentences as input to thesecond stage.We present an approach to summarizing scientific articles that is based on the ideaof restoring the discourse context of extracted material by adding the rhetorical statusto each sentence in a document.
The innovation of our approach is that it definesprinciples for content selection specifically for scientific articles and that it combinessentence extraction with robust discourse analysis.
The output of our system is a listof extracted sentences along with their rhetorical status (e.g.
sentence 11 describes thescientific goal of the paper, and sentence 9 criticizes previous work), as illustrated inFigure 1.
(The example paper we use throughout the article is F. Pereira, N. Tishby, andL.
Lee?s ?Distributional Clustering of English Words?
[ACL-1993, cmp lg/9408011]; itwas chosen because it is the paper most often cited within our collection.)
Such listsserve two purposes: in themselves, they already provide a better characterization ofscientific articles than sentence extracts do, and in the longer run, they will serve asbetter input material for further processing.An extrinsic evaluation (Teufel 2001) shows that the output of our system is al-ready a useful document surrogate in its own right.
But postprocessing could turn411Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific ArticlesAIM 10 Our research addresses some of the same questions and uses similar raw data,but we investigate how to factor word association tendencies into associationsof words to certain hidden senses classes and associations between the classesthemselves.11 While it may be worthwhile to base such a model on preexisting sense classes(Resnik, 1992), in the work described here we look at how to derive the classesdirectly from distributional data.162 We have demonstrated that a general divisive clustering procedure for probabilitydistributions can be used to group words according to their participation inparticular grammatical relations with other words.BASIS 19 The corpus used in our first experiment was derived from newswire text auto-matically parsed by Hindle?s parser Fidditch (Hindle, 1993).113 The analogy with statistical mechanics suggests a deterministic annealing pro-cedure for clustering (Rose et al, 1990), in which the number of clusters isdetermined through a sequence of phase transitions by continuously increasingthe parameter EQN following an annealing schedule.CONTRAST 9 His notion of similarity seems to agree with our intuitions in many cases, but it isnot clear how it can be used directly to construct word classes and correspondingmodels of association.14 Class construction is then combinatorially very demanding and depends onfrequency counts for joint events involving particular words, a potentially un-reliable source of information as we noted above.Figure 1Extract of system output for example paper.0 This paper?s topic is to automatically classify words according to their contexts of use.4 The problem is that for large enough corpora the number of possible joint events is muchlarger than the number of event occurrences in the corpus, so many events are seen rarelyor never, making their frequency counts unreliable estimates of their probabilities.
162This paper?s specific goal is to group words according to their participation in particulargrammatical relations with other words, 22 more specifically to classify nouns accordingto their distribution as direct objects of verbs.Figure 2Nonexpert summary, general purpose.the rhetorical extracts into something even more valuable: The added rhetorical con-text allows for the creation of a new kind of summary.
Consider, for instance, theuser-oriented and task-tailored summaries shown in Figures 2 and 3.
Their composi-tion was guided by fixed building plans for different tasks and different user models,whereby the building blocks are defined as sentences of a specific rhetorical status.In our example, most textual material is extracted verbatim (additional material isunderlined in Figures 2 and 3; the original sentences are given in Figure 5).
The firstexample is a short abstract generated for a nonexpert user and for general information;its first two sentences give background information about the problem tackled.
Thesecond abstract is aimed at an expert; therefore, no background is given, and insteaddifferences between this approach and similar ones are described.The actual construction of these summaries is a complex process involving taskssuch as sentence planning, lexical choice and syntactic realization, tasks that are outsidethe scope of this article.
The important point is that it is the knowledge about therhetorical status of the sentences that enables the tailoring of the summaries accordingto users?
expertise and task.
The rhetorical status allows for other kinds of applicationstoo: Several articles can be summarized together, contrasts or complementarity among412Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 444 This paper?s goal is to organise a set of linguistic objects such as words according tothe contexts in which they occur, for instance grammatical constructions or n-grams.22 More specifically: the goal is to classify nouns according to their distribution as directobjects of verbs.
5 Unlike Hindle (1990), 9 this approach constructs word classes andcorresponding models of association directly.
14 In comparison to Brown et al (1992),the method is combinatorially less demanding and does not depend on frequency countsfor joint events involving particular words, a potentially unreliable source of information.Figure 3Expert summary, contrastive links.articles can be expressed, and summaries can be displayed together with citation linksto help users navigate several related papers.The rest of this article is structured as follows: section 2 describes the theoreticaland empirical aspects of document structure we model in this article.
These aspectsinclude rhetorical status and relatedness:?
Rhetorical status in terms of problem solving: What is the goal andcontribution of the paper?
This type of information is often marked bymetadiscourse and by conventional patterns of presentation (cf.section 2.1).?
Rhetorical status in terms of intellectual attribution: What information isclaimed to be new, and which statements describe other work?
This typeof information can be recognized by following the ?agent structure?
oftext, that is, by looking at all grammatical subjects occurring in sequence(cf.
section 2.2).?
Relatedness among articles: What articles is this work similar to, and inwhat respect?
This type of information can be found by examining fixedindicator phrases like in contrast to .
.
.
, section headers, and citations (cf.section 2.3).These aspects of rhetorical status are encoded in an annotation scheme that we presentin section 2.4.
Annotation of relevance is covered in section 2.5.In section 3, we report on the construction of a gold standard for rhetorical statusand relevance and on the measurement of agreement among human annotators.
Wethen describe in section 4 our system that simulates the human annotation.
Section 5presents an overview of the intrinsic evaluation we performed, and section 6 closeswith a summary of the contribution of this work, its limitations, and suggestions forfuture work.2.
Rhetorical Status, Citations, and RelevanceIt is important for our task to find the right definition of rhetorical status to describe thecontent in scientific articles.
The definition should both capture generalizations aboutthe nature of scientific texts and also provide the right kind of information to enable theconstruction of better summaries for a practical application.
Another requirement isthat the analysis should be applicable to research articles from different presentationaltraditions and subject matters.413Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific ArticlesFor the development of our scheme, we used the chronologically first 80 articlesin our corpus of conference articles in computational linguistics (articles presentedat COLING, ANLP, and (E)ACL conferences or workshops).
Because of the inter-disciplinarity of the field, the papers in this collection cover a challenging range ofsubject matters, such as logic programming, statistical language modeling, theoreti-cal semantics, computational dialectology, and computational psycholinguistics.
Also,the research methodology and tradition of presentation is very different among thesefields; (computer scientists write very different papers than theoretical linguists).
Wethus expect our analysis to be equally applicable in a wider range of disciplines andsubdisciplines other than those named.2.1 Rhetorical StatusOur model relies on the following dimensions of document structure in scientificarticles.Problem structure.
Research is often described as a problem-solving activity (Jordan1984; Trawinski 1989; Zappen 1983).
Three information types can be expected to occurin any research article: problems (research goals), solutions (methods), and results.
Inmany disciplines, particularly the experimental sciences, this problem-solution struc-ture has been crystallized in a fixed presentation of the scientific material as introduc-tion, method, result and discussion (van Dijk 1980).
But many texts in computationallinguistics do not adhere to this presentation, and our analysis therefore has to bebased on the underlying logical (rhetorical) organization, using textual representationonly as an indication.Intellectual attribution.
Scientific texts should make clear what the new contributionis, as opposed to previous work (specific other researchers?
approaches) and back-ground material (generally accepted statements).
We noticed that intellectual attribu-tion has a segmental character.
Statements in a segment without any explicit attributionare often interpreted as belonging to the most recent explicit attribution statement(e.g., Other researchers claim that).
Our rhetorical scheme assumes that readers haveno difficulty in understanding intellectual attribution, an assumption that we verifiedexperimentally.Scientific argumentation.
In contrast to the view of science as a disinterested ?factfactory,?
researchers like Swales (1990) have long claimed that there is a strong socialaspect to science, because the success of a researcher is correlated with her ability toconvince the field of the quality of her work and the validity of her arguments.
Au-thors construct an argument that Myers (1992) calls the ?rhetorical act of the paper?
:The statement that their work is a valid contribution to science.
Swales breaks downthis ?rhetorical act?
into single, nonhierarchical argumentative moves (i.e., rhetoricallycoherent pieces of text, which perform the same communicative function).
His Con-structing a Research Space (CARS) model shows how patterns of these moves can beused to describe the rhetorical structure of introduction sections of physics articles.Importantly, Swales?s moves describe the rhetorical status of a text segment with re-spect to the overall message of the document, and not with respect to adjacent textsegments.Attitude toward other people?s work.
We are interested in how authors include refer-ence to other work into their argument.
In the flow of the argument, each piece ofother work is mentioned for a specific reason: it is portrayed as a rival approach, asa prior approach with a fault, or as an approach contributing parts of the authors?own solution.
In well-written papers, this relation is often expressed in an explicitway.
The next section looks at the stylistic means available to the author to expressthe connection between previous approaches and their own work.414Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 42.2 Metadiscourse and AgentivityExplicit metadiscourse is an integral aspect of scientific argumentation and a way ofexpressing attitude toward previous work.
Examples for metadiscourse are phraseslike we argue that and in contrast to common belief, we.
Metadiscourse is ubiquitous inscientific writing: Hyland (1998) found a metadiscourse phrase on average after every15 words in running text.A large proportion of scientific metadiscourse is conventionalized, particularly inthe experimental sciences, and particularly in the methodology or result section (e.g.,we present original work .
.
.
, or An ANOVA analysis revealed a marginal interaction/a main ef-fect of .
.
.
).
Swales (1990) lists many such fixed phrases as co-occurring with the movesof his CARS model (pages 144, 154?158, 160?161).
They are useful indicators of overallimportance (Pollock and Zamora 1975); they can also be relatively easily recognizedwith information extraction techniques (e.g., regular expressions).
Paice (1990) intro-duces grammars for pattern matching of indicator phrases, e.g., the aim/purpose of thispaper/article/study and we conclude/propose.Apart from this conventionalized metadiscourse, we noticed that our corpus con-tains a large number of metadiscourse statements that are less formalized: statementsabout aspects of the problem-solving process or the relation to other work.
Figure 4,for instance, shows that there are many ways to say that one?s research is based onsomebody else?s (?research continuation?).
The sentences do not look similar on thesurface: The syntactic subject can be the authors, the originators of the method, oreven the method itself.
Also, the verbs are very different (base, be related, use, follow).Some sentences use metaphors of change and creation.
The wide range of linguisticexpression we observed presents a challenge for recognition and correct classificationusing standard information extraction patterns.With respect to agents occurring in scientific metadiscourse, we make two sug-gestions: (1) that scientific argumentation follows prototypical patterns and employsrecurrent types of agents and actions and (2) that it is possible to recognize many ofthese automatically.
Agents play fixed roles in the argumentation, and there are so?
We employ Suzuki?s algorithm to learn case frame patterns as dendroid distributions.(9605013)?
Our method combines similarity-based estimates with Katz?s back-off scheme, which is widely used for languagemodeling in speech recognition.
(9405001)?
Thus, we base our model on the work of Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs (1986), and Heeman and Hirst (1992) .
.
.(9405013)?
The starting point for this work was Scha and Polanyi?s discourse grammar (Scha and Polanyi, 1988; Pruest etal., 1994).
(9502018)?
We use the framework for the allocation and transfer of control of Whittaker and Stenton (1988).(9504007)?
Following Laur (1993), we consider simple prepositions (like ?in?)
as well as prepositional phrases (like ?in frontof?).
(9503007)?
Our lexicon is based on a finite-state transducer lexicon (Karttunen et al, 1992).(9503004)?
Instead of .
.
.
we will adopt a simpler, monostratal representation that is more closely related to those found independency grammars (e.g., Hudson (1984)).
(9408014)Figure 4Statements expressing research continuation, with source article number.415Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific Articlesfew of these roles that they can be enumerated: agents appear as rivals, as contrib-utors of part of the solution (they), as the entire research community in the field, oras the authors of the paper themselves (we).
Note the similarity of agent roles to thethree kinds of intellectual attribution mentioned above.
We also propose prototypicalactions frequently occurring in scientific discourse: the field might agree, a particularresearcher can suggest something, and a certain solution could either fail or be success-ful.
In section 4 we will describe the three features used in our implementation thatrecognize metadiscourse.Another important construct that expresses relations to other researchers?
work isformal citations, to which we will now turn.2.3 Citations and RelatednessCitation indexes are constructs that contain pointers between cited texts and citingtexts (Garfield 1979), traditionally in printed form.
When done on-line (as in CiteSeer[Lawrence, Giles, and Bollacker 1999], or as in Nanba and Okumura?s [1999] work),citations are presented in context for users to browse.
Browsing each citation is time-consuming, but useful: just knowing that an article cites another is often not enough.One needs to read the context of the citation to understand the relation between thearticles.
Citations may vary in many dimensions; for example, they can be central orperfunctory, positive or negative (i.e., critical); apart from scientific reasons, there isalso a host of social reasons for citing (?politeness, tradition, piety?
[Ziman 1969]).We concentrate on two citation contexts that are particularly important for theinformation needs of researchers:?
Contexts in which an article is cited negatively or contrastively.?
Contexts in which an article is cited positively or in which the authorsstate that their own work originates from the cited work.A distinction among these contexts would enable us to build more informative citationindexes.
We suggest that such a rhetorical distinction can be made manually andautomatically for each citation; we use a large corpus of scientific papers along withhumans?
judgments of this distinction to train a system to make such distinctions.2.4 The Rhetorical Annotation SchemeOur rhetorical annotation scheme (cf.
Table 1) encodes the aspects of scientific argu-mentation, metadiscourse, and relatedness to other work described before.
The cat-egories are assigned to full sentences, but a similar scheme could be developed forclauses or phrases.The annotation scheme is nonoverlapping and nonhierarchical, and each sentencemust be assigned to exactly one category.
As adjacent sentences of the same status canbe considered to form zones of the same rhetorical status, we call the units rhetoricalzones.
The shortest of these zones are one sentence long.The rhetorical status of a sentence is determined on the basis of the global contextof the paper.
For instance, whereas the OTHER category describes all neutral descrip-tions of other researchers?
work, the categories BASIS and CONTRAST are applicable tosentences expressing a research continuation relationship or a contrast to other work.Generally accepted knowledge is classified as BACKGROUND, whereas the author?s ownwork is separated into the specific research goal (AIM) and all other statements aboutthe author?s own work (OWN).416Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4Table 1Annotation scheme for rhetorical status.AIM Specific research goal of the current paperTEXTUAL Statements about section structureOWN (Neutral) description of own work presented in current paper: Method-ology, results, discussionBACKGROUND Generally accepted scientific backgroundCONTRAST Statements of comparison with or contrast to other work; weaknesses ofother workBASIS Statements of agreement with other work or continuation of other workOTHER (Neutral) description of other researchers?
workThe annotation scheme expresses important discourse and argumentation aspectsof scientific articles, but with its seven categories it is not designed to model the fullcomplexity of scientific texts.
The category OWN, for instance, could be further sub-divided into method (solution), results, and further work, which is not done in thework reported here.
There is a conflict between explanatory power and the simplicitynecessary for reliable human and automatic classification, and we decided to restrictourselves to the rhetorical distinctions that are most salient and potentially most usefulfor several information access applications.
The user-tailored summaries and more in-formative citation indexes we mentioned before are just two such applications; anotherone is the indexing and previewing of the internal structure of the article.
To makesuch indexing and previewing possible, our scheme contains the additional categoryTEXTUAL, which captures previews of section structure (section 2 describes our data .
.
.
).Such previews would make it possible to label sections with the author?s indicationof their contents.Our rhetorical analysis, as noted above, is nonhierarchical, in contrast to RhetoricalStructure Theory (RST) (Mann and Thompson 1987; Marcu 1999), and it concernstext pieces at a lower level of granularity.
Although we do agree with RST that thestructure of text is hierarchical in many cases, it is our belief that the relevance andfunction of certain text pieces can be determined without analyzing the full hierarchicalstructure of the text.
Another difference between our analysis and that of RST is thatour analysis aims at capturing the rhetorical status of a piece of text in respect to theoverall message, and not in relation to adjacent pieces of text.2.5 RelevanceAs our immediate goal is to select important content from a text, we also need a secondset of gold standards that are defined by relevance (as opposed to rhetorical status).Relevance is a difficult issue because it is situational to a unique occasion (Saracevic1975; Sparck Jones 1990; Mizzaro 1997): Humans perceive relevance differently fromeach other and differently in different situations.
Paice and Jones (1993) report that theyabandoned an informal sentence selection experiment in which they used agriculturearticles and experts in the field as participants, as the participants were too stronglyinfluenced by their personal research interest.As a result of subjectivity, a number of human sentence extraction experimentsover the years have resulted in low agreement figures.
Rath, Resnick, and Savage(1961) report that six participants agreed on only 8% of 20 sentences they were askedto select out of short Scientific American texts and that five agreed on 32% of thesentences.
They found that after six weeks, subjects selected on average only 55%of the sentences they themselves selected previously.
Edmundson and Wyllys (1961)417Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific Articlesfind similarly low human agreement for research articles.
More recent experimentsreporting more positive results all used news text (Jing et al 1998; Zechner 1995).As discussed above, the compression rates on news texts are far lower: there arefewer sentences from which to choose, making it easier to agree on which ones toselect.
Sentence selection from scientific texts also requires more background knowl-edge, thus importing an even higher level of subjectivity into sentence selectionexperiments.Recently, researchers have been looking for more objective definitions of relevance.Kupiec, Pedersen, and Chen (1995) define relevance by abstract similarity: A sentencein a document is considered relevant if it shows a high level of similarity to a sentencein the abstract.
This definition of relevance has the advantage that it is fixed (i.e., theresearchers have no influence over it).
It relies, however, on two assumptions: that thewriting style is such that there is a high degree of overlap between sentences in theabstract and in the main text and that the abstract is indeed the target output that ismost adequate for the final task.In our case, neither assumption holds.
First, the experiments in Teufel and Moens(1997) showed that in our corpus only 45% of the abstract sentences appear elsewherein the body of the document (either as a close variant or in identical form), whereasKupiec, Pedersen, and Chen report a figure of 79%.
We believe that the reason for thedifference is that in our case the abstracts were produced by the document authors andby professional abstractors in Kupiec, Pedersen, and Chen?s case.
Author summariestend to be less systematic (Rowley 1982) and more ?deep generated,?
whereas sum-maries by professional abstractors follow an internalized building plan (Liddy 1991)and are often created through sentence extraction (Lancaster 1998).Second, and more importantly, the abstracts and improved citation indexes weintend to generate are not modeled on traditional summaries, which do not pro-vide the type of information needed for the applications we have in mind.
Infor-mation about related work plays an important role in our strategy for summarizationand citation indexing, but such information is rarely found in abstracts.
We empir-ically found that the rhetorical status of information occurring in author abstractsis very limited and consists mostly of information about the goal of the paper andspecifics of the solution.
Details of the analysis we conducted on this topic are given insection 3.2.2.We thus decided to augment our corpus with an independent set of human judg-ments of relevance.
We wanted to replace the vague definition of relevance oftenused in sentence extraction experiments with a more operational definition based onrhetorical status.
For instance, a sentence is considered relevant only if it describesthe research goal or states a difference with a rival approach.
More details of theinstructions we used to make the relevance decisions are given in section 3.Thus, we have two parallel human annotations in our corpus: rhetorical annotationand relevance selection.
In both tasks, each sentence in the articles is classified: Eachsentence receives one rhetorical category and also the label irrelevant or relevant.
Thisstrategy can create redundant material (e.g., when the same fact is expressed in asentence in the introduction, a sentence in the conclusion, and one in the middle ofthe document).
But this redundancy also helps mitigate one of the main problemswith sentence-based gold standards, namely, the fact that there is no one single bestextract for a document.
In our annotation, all qualifying sentences in the documentare identified and classified into the same group, which makes later comparisonswith system performance fairer.
Also, later steps cannot only find redundancy in theintermediate result and remove it, but also use the redundancy as an indication ofimportance.418Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4Aim:10 Our research addresses some of the same questions and uses similar raw data, but we investigatehow to factor word association tendencies into associations of words to certain hidden sensesclasses and associations between the classes themselves.22 We will consider here only the problem of classifying nouns according to their distribution asdirect objects of verbs; the converse problem is formally similar.25 The problem we study is how to use the EQN to classify the EQN.44 In general, we are interested on how to organise a set of linguistic objects such as words accordingto the contexts in which they occur, for instance grammatical constructions or n-grams.46 Our problem can be seen as that of learning a joint distribution of pairs from a large sample ofpairs.162 We have demonstrated that a general divisive clustering procedure for probability distributionscan be used to group words according to their participation in particular grammatical relationswith other words.Background:0 Methods for automatically classifying words according to their contexts of use have both scientificand practical interest.4 The problem is that for large enough corpora the number of possible joint events is much largerthan the number of event occurrences in the corpus, so many events are seen rarely or never,making their frequency counts unreliable estimates of their probabilities.Own (Details of Solution):66 The first stage of an iteration is a maximum likelihood, or minimum distortion, estimation ofthe cluster centroids given fixed membership probabilities.140 The evaluation described below was performed on the largest data set we have worked with so far,extracted from 44 million words of 1988 Associated Press newswire with the pattern matchingtechniques mentioned earlier.163 The resulting clusters are intuitively informative, and can be used to construct class-based wordcoocurrence [sic] models with substantial predictive power.Contrast with Other Approaches/Weaknesses of Other Approaches:9 His notion of similarity seems to agree with our intuitions in many cases, but it is not clear howit can be used directly to construct word classes and corresponding models of association.14 Class construction is then combinatorially very demanding and depends on frequency countsfor joint events involving particular words, a potentially unreliable source of information as wenoted above.41 However, this is not very satisfactory because one of the goals of our work is precisely to avoidthe problems of data sparseness by grouping words into classes.Basis (Imported Solutions):65 The combined entropy maximization entropy [sic] and distortion minimization is carried outby a two-stage iterative process similar to the EM method (Dempster et al, 1977).113 The analogy with statistical mechanics suggests a deterministic annealing procedure for clus-tering (Rose et al, 1990), in which the number of clusters is determined through a sequenceof phase transitions by continuously increasing the parameter EQN following an annealingschedule.153 The data for this test was built from the training data for the previous one in the following way,based on a suggestion by Dagan et al (1993).Figure 5Example of manual annotation: Relevant sentences with rhetorical status.Figure 5 gives an example of the manual annotation.
Relevant sentences of allrhetorical categories are shown.
Our system creates a list like the one in Figure 5automatically (Figure 12 shows the actual output of the system when run on theexample paper).
In the next section, we turn to the manual annotation step and thedevelopment of the gold standard used during system training and system evaluation.419Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific Articles3.
Human Judgments: The Gold StandardFor any linguistic analysis that requires subjective interpretation and that is thereforenot objectively true or false, it is important to show that humans share some intuitionsabout the analysis.
This is typically done by showing that they can apply it indepen-dently of each other and that the variation they display is bounded (i.e., not arbitrarilyhigh).
The argument is strengthened if the judges are people other than the developersof the analysis, preferably ?na??ve?
subjects (i.e., not computational linguists).
Apartfrom the cognitive validation of our analysis, high agreement is essential if the anno-tated corpus is to be used as training material for a machine learning process, like theone we describe in section 4.
Noisy and unreliably annotated training material willvery likely deteriorate the classification performance.In inherently subjective tasks, it is also common practice to consider human perfor-mance as an upper bound.
The theoretically best performance of a system is reachedif agreement among a pool of human annotators does not decrease when the systemis added to the pool.
This is so because an automatic process cannot do any better inthis situation than to be indistinguishable from human performance.3.1 CorpusThe annotated development corpus consists of 80 conference articles in computationallinguistics (12,188 sentences; 285,934 words).
It is part of a larger corpus of 260 articles(1.1 million words) that we collected from the CMP LG archive (CMP LG 1994).
Theappendix lists the 80 articles (archive numbers, titles and authors) of our developmentcorpus; it consists of the 80 chronologically oldest articles in the larger corpus, con-taining articles deposited between May 1994 and May 1996 (whereas the entire corpusstretches until 2001).Papers were included if they were presented at one of the following conferences(or associated workshops): the annual meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL), the meeting of the European Chapter of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics (EACL), the conference on Applied Natural Language Processing(ANLP), the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), or the In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguistics (COLING).
As mentioned above,a wide range of different subdomains of the field of computational linguistics arecovered.We added Extensible Markup Language (XML) markup to the corpus: Titles, au-thors, conference, date, abstract, sections, headlines, paragraphs, and sentences weremarked up.
Equations, tables, images were removed and replaced by placeholders.Bibliography lists were marked up and parsed.
Citations and occurrences of au-thor names in running text were recognized, and self-citations were recognized andspecifically marked up.
(Linguistic) example sentences and example pseudocode weremanually marked up, such that clean textual material (i.e., the running text of thearticle without interruptions) was isolated for automatic processing.
The implemen-tation uses the Text Tokenization Toolkit (TTT) software (Grover, Mikheev, andMatheson 1999).3.2 Annotation of Rhetorical StatusThe annotation experiment described here (and in Teufel, Carletta, and Moens [1999]in more detail) tests the rhetorical annotation scheme presented in section 2.4.420Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 43.2.1 Rationale and Experimental Design.Annotators.
Three task-trained annotators were used: Annotators A and B havedegrees in cognitive science and speech therapy.
They were paid for the experiment.Both are well-used to reading scientific articles for their studies and roughly under-stand the contents of the articles they annotated because of the closeness of their fieldsto computational linguistics.
Annotator C is the first author.
We did not want to de-clare annotator C the expert annotator; we believe that in subjective tasks like the onedescribed here, there are no real experts.Guidelines.
Written guidelines (17 pages) describe the semantics of the categories,ambiguous cases, and decision strategies.
The guidelines also include the decision treereproduced in Figure 6.Training.
Annotators received a total of 20 hours of training.
Training consistedof the presentation of annotation of six example papers and the annotation of eighttraining articles under real conditions (i.e., independently).
In subsequent training ses-sions, decision criteria for difficult cases encountered in the training articles were dis-cussed.
Obviously, the training articles were excluded from measurements of humanagreement.Materials and procedure.
Twenty-five articles were used for annotation.
As no annota-tion tool was available at the time, annotation was performed on paper; the categorieswere later transferred to the electronic versions of the articles by hand.
Skim-readingand annotation typically took between 20 and 30 minutes per article, but there wereno time restrictions.
No communication between the annotators was allowed duringannotation.
Six weeks after the initial annotation, annotators were asked to reannotate6 random articles out of the 25.Evaluation measures.
We measured two formal properties of the annotation: stabilityand reproducibility (Krippendorff 1980).
Stability, the extent to which one annotatorwill produce the same classifications at different times, is important because an unsta-ble annotation scheme can never be reproducible.
Reproducibility, the extent to whichdifferent annotators will produce the same classifications, is important because it mea-sures the consistency of shared understandings (or meaning) held between annotators.work of the authors)?Does this sentence refer to new, currentBACKGROUNDCONTRASTYES NOYES NONOYESYES NOYESBASISNONOYESAIMOWNbackground, including phenomenaDoes the sentence describe generalto be explained or linguistic example sentences?that describes the specific aimDoes this sentence contain materialof the paper?explicit reference to thestructure of the paper?Does this sentence makeTEXTUALOTHERor comparison of the own work to it?of other work, or a contrastDoes it describe a negative aspector support for the current paper?Does this sentence mentionother work as basis ofwork by the authors (excluding previousFigure 6Decision tree for rhetorical annotation.421Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific ArticlesWe use the kappa coefficient K (Siegel and Castellan 1988) to measure stability andreproducibility, following Carletta (1996).
The kappa coefficient is defined as follows:K =P(A) ?
P(E)1 ?
P(E)where P(A) is pairwise agreement and P(E) random agreement.
K varies between 1when agreement is perfect and ?1 when there is a perfect negative correlation.
K = 0is defined as the level of agreement that would be reached by random annotationusing the same distribution of categories as the actual annotators did.The main advantage of kappa as an annotation measure is that it factors outrandom agreement by numbers of categories and by their distribution.
As kappa alsoabstracts over the number of annotators considered, it allows us to compare the agree-ment numerically among a group of human annotators with the agreement betweenthe system and one or more annotators (section 5), which we use as one of the per-formance measures of the system.3.2.2 Results.
The annotation experiments show that humans distinguish the sevenrhetorical categories with a stability of K = .82, .81, .76 (N = 1,220; k = 2, where Kstands for the kappa coefficient, N for the number of items (sentences) annotated, andk for the number of annotators).
This is equivalent to 93%, 92%, and 90% agreement.Reproducibility was measured at K = .71 (N = 4,261, k = 3), which is equivalentto 87% agreement.
On Krippendorff?s (1980) scale, agreement of K = .8 or above isconsidered as reliable, agreement of .67?.8 as marginally reliable, and less than .67 asunreliable.
On Landis and Koch?s (1977) more forgiving scale, agreement of .0?.2 isconsidered as showing ?slight?
correlation, .21?.4 as ?fair,?
.41?.6 as ?moderate,?
.61?0.8 as ?substantial,?
and .81 ?1.0 as ?almost perfect.?
According to these guidelines,our results can be considered reliable, substantial annotation.Figure 7 shows that the distribution of the seven categories is very skewed, with67% of all sentences being classified as OWN.
(The distribution was calculated usingall three judgments per sentence [cf.
the calculation of kappa].
The total number ofitems is then k ?
N, i.e., 12,783 in this case.
)Table 2 shows a confusion matrix between two annotators.
The numbers repre-sent absolute sentence numbers, and the diagonal (boldface numbers) are the counts ofsentences that were identically classified by both annotators.
We used Krippendorff?sdiagnostics to determine which particular categories humans had most problems with:For each category, agreement is measured with a new data set in which all categoriesFigure 7Distribution of rhetorical categories (entire document).422Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4Table 2Confusion matrix between annotators B and C.ANNOTATOR BAIM CTR TXT OWN BKG BAS OTH TotalANNOTATOR C AIM 35 2 1 19 3 2 62CTR 86 31 16 23 156TXT 31 7 1 39OWN 10 62 5 2,298 25 3 84 2,487BKG 5 13 115 20 153BAS 2 18 1 18 14 53OTH 1 18 2 55 10 1 412 499Total 48 173 39 2,441 170 22 556 3,449except for the category of interest are collapsed into one metacategory.
Original agree-ment is compared to that measured on the new (artificial) data set; high values showthat annotators can distinguish the given category well from all others.
When their re-sults are compared to the overall reproducibility of K = .71, the annotators were goodat distinguishing AIM (Krippendorff?s diagnostics; K = .79) and TEXTUAL (K = .79).The high agreement in AIM sentences is a positive result that seems to be at odds withprevious sentence extraction experiments.
We take this as an indication that some typesof rhetorical classification are easier for human minds to do than unqualified relevancedecision.
We also think that the positive results are partly due to the existence of theguidelines.The annotators were less consistent at determining BASIS (K = .49) and CONTRAST(K = .59).
The same picture emerges if we look at precision and recall of single cate-gories between two annotators (cf.
Table 3).
Precision and recall for AIM and TEXTUALare high at 72%/56% and 79%/79%, whereas they are lower for CONTRAST (50%/55%)and BASIS (82%/34%).This contrast in agreement might have to do with the location of the rhetori-cal zones in the paper: AIM and TEXTUAL zones are usually found in fixed locations(beginning or end of the introduction section) and are explicitly marked with metadis-course, whereas CONTRAST sentences, and even more so BASIS sentences, are usuallyinterspersed within longer OWN zones.
As a result, these categories are more exposedto lapses of attention during annotation.With respect to the longer, more neutral zones (intellectual attribution), annotatorsoften had problems in distinguishing OTHER work from OWN work, particularly incases where the authors did not express a clear distinction between new work andprevious own work (which, according to our instructions, should be annotated as OTHER).Another persistently problematic distinction for our annotators was that between OWNTable 3Annotator C?s precision and recall per category if annotator B is gold standard.AIM CTR TXT OWN BKG BAS OTHPrecision 72% 50% 79% 94% 68% 82% 74%Recall 56% 55% 79% 92% 75% 34% 83%423Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific Articlesand BACKGROUND.
This could be a sign that some authors aimed their papers at anexpert audience and thus thought it unnecessary to signal clearly which statementsare commonly agreed upon in the field, as opposed to their own new claims.
If apaper is written in such a way, it can indeed be understood only with a considerableamount of domain knowledge, which our annotators did not have.Because intellectual attribution (the distinction between OWN, OTHER, and BACK-GROUND material) is an important part of our annotation scheme, we conducted asecond experiment measuring how well our annotators could distinguish just thesethree roles, using the same annotators and 22 different articles.
We wrote seven pagesof new guidelines describing the semantics of the three categories.
Results show higherstability compared to the full annotation scheme (K = .83, .79, .81; N = 1,248; k = 2)and higher reproducibility (K = .78, N = 4,031, k = 3), corresponding to 94%, 93%,and 93% agreement (stability) and 93% (reproducibility).
It is most remarkable thatagreement of annotation of intellectual attribution in the abstracts is almost perfect:K = .98 (N = 89, k = 3), corresponding to 99% agreement.
This points to the fact thatauthors, when writing abstracts for their papers, take care to make it clear to whoma certain statement is attributed.
This effect also holds for the annotation with thefull scheme with all seven categories: again, reproducibility in the abstract is higher(K = .79) than in the entire document (K = .71), but the effect is much weaker.Abstracts might be easier to annotate than the rest of a paper, but this does notnecessarily make it possible to define a gold standard solely by looking at the ab-stracts.
As foreshadowed in section 2.5, abstracts do not contain all types of rhetoricalinformation.
AIM and OWN sentences make up 74% of the sentences in abstracts, andonly 5% of all CONTRAST sentences and 3% of all BASIS sentences occur in the abstract.Abstracts in our corpus are also not structurally homogeneous.
When we inspectedthe rhetorical structure of abstracts in terms of sequences of rhetorical zones, we founda high level of variation.
Even though the sequence AIM?OWN is very common (con-tained in 73% of all abstracts), the 80 abstracts still contain 40 different rhetoricalsequences, 28 of which are unique.
This heterogeneity is in stark contrast to the sys-tematic structures Liddy (1991) found to be produced by professional abstractors.
Bothobservations, the lack of certain rhetorical types in the abstracts and their rhetoricalheterogeneity, reassure us in our decision not to use human-written abstracts as a goldstandard.3.3 Annotation of RelevanceWe collected two different kinds of relevance gold standards for the documents in ourdevelopment corpus: abstract-similar document sentences and additional manuallyselected sentences.In order to establish alignment between summary and document sentences, weused a semiautomatic method that relies on a simple surface similarity measure (long-est common subsequence of content words, i.e., excluding words on a stop list).
As inKupiec, Pedersen, and Chen?s experiment, final alignment was decided by a humanjudge, and the criterion was semantic similarity of the two sentences.
The followingsentence pair illustrates a direct match:Summary: In understanding a reference, an agent determines hisconfidence in its adequacy as a means of identifying the referent.Document: An agent understands a reference once he is confidentin the adequacy of its (inferred) plan as a means of identifying thereferent.424Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4Of the 346 abstract sentences contained in the 80 documents, 156 (45%) could bealigned this way.
Because of this low agreement and because certain rhetorical typesare not present in the abstracts, we decided not to rely on abstract alignment as ouronly gold standard.
Instead, we used manually selected sentences as an alternativegold standard, which is more informative, but also more subjective.We wrote eight pages of guidelines that describe relevance criteria (e.g., our defi-nition prescribes that neutral descriptions of other work be selected only if the otherwork is an essential part of the solution presented, whereas all statements of criti-cism are to be included).
The first author annotated all documents in the developmentcorpus for relevance using the rhetorical zones and abstract similarity as aides in therelevance decision, and also skim-reading the whole paper before making the decision.This resulted in 5 to 28 sentences per paper and a total of 1,183 sentences.Implicitly, rhetorical classification of the extracted sentences was already given aseach of these sentences already had a rhetorical status assigned to it.
However, therhetorical scheme we used for this task is slightly different.
We excluded TEXTUAL, asthis category was designed for document uses other than summarization.
If a selectedsentence had the rhetorical class TEXTUAL, it was reclassified into one of the othersix categories.
Figure 8 shows the resulting category distribution among these 1,183sentences, which is far more evenly distributed than the one covering all sentences (cf.Figure 7).
CONTRAST and OWN are the two most frequent categories.We did not verify the relevance annotation with human experiments.
We acceptthat the set of sentences chosen by the human annotator is only one possible goldstandard.
What is more important is that humans can agree on the rhetorical status ofthe relevant sentences.
Liddy observed that agreement on rhetorical status was easierfor professional abstractors than sentence selection: Although they did not necessarilyagree on which individual sentences should go into an abstract, they did agree on therhetorical information types that make up a good abstract.We asked our trained annotators to classify a set of 200 sentences, randomlysampled from the 1,183 sentences selected by the first author, into the six rhetori-cal categories.
The sentences were presented in order of occurrence in the document,but without any context in terms of surrounding sentences.
We measured stability atK = .9, .86, .83 (N = 100, k = 2) and reproducibility at K = .84 (N = 200, k = 3).
Theseresults are reassuring: They show that the rhetorical status for important sentences canbe particularly well determined, better than rhetorical status for all sentences in thedocument (for which reproducibility was K = .71; cf.
section 3.2.2).Figure 8Distribution of rhetorical categories (relevant sentences).425Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific Articles4.
The SystemWe now describe an automatic system that can perform extraction and classificationof rhetorical status on unseen text (cf.
also a prior version of the system reportedin Teufel and Moens [2000] and Teufel [1999]).
We decided to use machine learningto perform this extraction and classification, based on a variety of sentential featuressimilar to the ones reported in the sentence extraction literature.
Human annotation isused as training material such that the associations between these sentential featuresand the target sentences can be learned.
It is also used as gold standard for intrinsicsystem evaluation.A simpler machine learning approach using only word frequency informationand no other features, as typically used in tasks like text classification, could havebeen employed (and indeed Nanba and Okumura [1999] do so for classifying citationcontexts).
To test if such a simple approach would be enough, we performed a textcategorization experiment, using the Rainbow implementation of a na?
?ve Bayes termfrequency times inverse document frequency (TF*IDF) method (McCallum 1997) andconsidering each sentence as a ?document.?
The result was a classification performanceof K = .30; the classifier nearly always chooses OWN and OTHER segments.
The rare butimportant categories AIM, BACKGROUND, CONTRAST, and BASIS could be retrieved onlywith low precision and recall.
Therefore, text classification methods do not provide asolution to our problem.
This is not surprising, given that the definition of our task haslittle to do with the distribution of ?content-bearing?
words and phrases, much less sothan the related task of topic segmentation (Morris and Hirst 1991; Hearst 1997; Choi2000), or Saggion and Lapalme?s (2000) approach to the summarization of scientificarticles, which relies on scientific concepts and their relations.
Instead, we predict thatother indicators apart from the simple words contained in the sentence could providestrong evidence for the modeling of rhetorical status.
Also, the relatively small amountof training material we have at our disposal requires a machine learning method thatmakes optimal use of as many different kinds of features as possible.
We predicted thatthis would increase precision and recall on the categories in which we are interested.The text classification experiment is still useful as it provides a nontrivial baseline forcomparison with our intrinsic system evaluation presented in section 5.4.1 ClassifiersWe use a na?
?ve Bayesian model as in Kupiec, Pedersen, and Chen?s (1995) experiment(cf.
Figure 9).
Sentential features are collected for each sentence (Table 4 gives anoverview of the features we used).
Learning is supervised: In the training phase,associations between these features and human-provided target categories are learned.The target categories are the seven categories in the rhetorical annotation experimentand relevant/nonrelevant in the relevance selection experiment.
In the testing phase,the trained model provides the probability of each target category for each sentenceof unseen text, on the basis of the sentential features identified for the sentence.4.2 FeaturesSome of the features in our feature pool are unique to our approach, for instance, themetadiscourse features.
Others are borrowed from the text extraction literature (Paice1990) or related tasks and adapted to the problem of determining rhetorical status.Absolute location of a sentence.
In the news domain, sentence location is the singlemost important feature for sentence selection (Brandow, Mitze, and Rau 1995); in ourdomain, location information, although less dominant, can still give a useful indication.Rhetorical zones appear in typical positions in the article, as scientific argumentation426Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4P(C | F0, .
.
.
, Fn?1) ?
P(C)?n?1j=0 P(Fj | C)?n?1j=0 P(Fj)P(C | F0, .
.
.
, Fn?1): Probability that a sentence has target category C, given its feature val-ues F0, .
.
.
, Fn?1;P(C): (Overall) probability of category C;P(Fj | C): Probability of feature-value pair Fj, given that the sentence is of targetcategory C;P(Fj): Probability of feature value Fj;Figure 9Na?
?ve Bayesian classifier.Table 4Overview of feature pool.Type Name Feature Description Feature ValuesAbsolutelocation1.
Loc Position of sentence in relation to 10segmentsA-JExplicitstructure2.
SectionStructRelative and absolute position ofsentence within section (e.g., firstsentence in section or somewhere insecond third)7 values3.
ParaStructRelative position of sentence within aparagraphInitial, Medial, Final4.
Headline Type of headline of current section 15 prototypical headlinesor Non-prototypicalSentencelength5.
Length Is the sentence longer than a certainthreshold, measured in words?Yes or NoContentfeatures6.
Title Does the sentence contain words alsooccurring in the title or headlines?Yes or No7.
TF*IDF Does the sentence contain ?significantterms?
as determined by the TF*IDFmeasure?Yes or NoVerb syntax 8.
Voice Voice (of first finite verb in sentence) Active or Passive orNoVerb9.
Tense Tense (of first finite verb in sentence) 9 simple and complextenses or NoVerb10.
Modal Is the first finite verb modified bymodal auxiliary?Modal or NoModal orNoVerbCitations 11.
Cit Does the sentence contain a citation orthe name of an author contained in thereference list?
If it contains a citation,is it a self-citation?
Whereabouts in thesentence does the citation occur?
{Citation (self), Citation(other), Author Name,or None} ?
{Beginning,Middle, End}History 12.
History Most probable previous category 7 Target Categories +?BEGIN?Meta-discourse13.
Formulaic Type of formulaic expression occur-ring in sentence18 Types of FormulaicExpressions + 9 AgentTypes or None14.
Agent Type of agent 9 Agent Types or None15.
SegAgent Type of agent 9 Agent Types or None16.
Action Type of action, with or withoutnegation27 Action Types or None427Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific Articlesfollows certain patterns (Swales 1990).
For example, limitations of the author?s ownmethod can be expected to be found toward the end of the article, whereas limitationsof other researchers?
work are often discussed in the introduction.
We observed that thesize of rhetorical zones depends on location, with smaller rhetorical zones occurringtoward the beginning and the end of the article.
We model this by assigning locationvalues in the following fashion: The article is divided into 20 equal parts, countingsentences.
Sentences occurring in parts 1, 2, 3, 4, 19, and 20 receive the values A, B, C,D, I, and J, respectively.
Parts 5 and 6 are pooled, and sentences occurring in them aregiven the value E; the same procedure is applied to parts 15 and 16 (value G) and 17and 18 (value H).
The remaining sentences in the middle (parts 7?14) all receive thevalue F (cf.
Figure 10).Section structure.
Sections can have an internal structuring; for instance, sentencestoward the beginning of a section often have a summarizing function.
The sectionlocation feature divides each section into three parts and assigns seven values: firstsentence, last sentence, second or third sentence, second-last or third-last sentence, orelse either somewhere in the first, second, or last third of the section.Paragraph structure.
In many genres, paragraphs also have internal structure (Wiebe1994), with high-level or summarizing sentences occurring more often at the peripheryof paragraphs.
In this feature, sentences are distinguished into those leading or endinga paragraph and all others.Headlines.
Prototypical headlines can be an important predictor of the rhetoricalstatus of sentences occurring in the given section; however, not all texts in our collec-tion use such headlines.
Whenever a prototypical headline is recognized (using a setof regular expressions), it is classified into one of the following 15 classes: Introduction,Implementation, Example, Conclusion, Result, Evaluation, Solution, Experiment, Discussion,Method, Problems, Related Work, Data, Further Work, Problem Statement.
If none of thepatterns match, the value Non-Prototypical is assigned.Sentence length.
Kupiec, Pedersen, and Chen (1995) report sentence length as auseful feature for text extraction.
In our implementation, sentences are divided intolong or short sentences, by comparison to a fixed threshold (12 words).Title word contents.
Sentences containing many ?content-bearing?
words have beenhypothesized to be good candidates for text extraction.
Baxendale (1958) extracted allwords except those on the stop list from the title and the headlines and determinedfor each sentence whether or not it contained these words.
We received better resultsby excluding headline words and using only title words.TF*IDF word contents.
How content-bearing a word is can also be measured withfrequency counts (Salton and McGill 1983).
The TF*IDF formula assigns high valuesto words that occur frequently in one document, but rarely in the overall collection ofdocuments.
We use the 18 highest-scoring TF*IDF words and classify sentences intothose that contain one or more of these words and those that do not.Verb syntax.
Linguistic features like tense and voice often correlate with rhetoricalzones; Biber (1995) and Riley (1991) show correlation of tense and voice with prototyp-ical section structure (?method,?
?introduction?).
In addition, the presence or absenceBA C D E F G H I J126 7 81 2 3 4 9 10 11 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 205Figure 10Values of location feature.428Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4of a modal auxiliary might be relevant for detecting the phenomenon of ?hedging?
(i.e., statements in which an author distances herself from her claims or signals lowcertainty: these results might indicate that .
.
.
possibly .
.
.
[Hyland 1998]).
For each sen-tence, we use part-of-speech-based heuristics to determine tense, voice, and presenceof modal auxiliaries.
This algorithm is shared with the metadiscourse features, andthe details are described below.Citation.
There are many connections between citation behavior and relevance orrhetorical status.
First, if a sentence contains a formal citation or the name of anotherauthor mentioned in the bibliography, it is far more likely to talk about other work thanabout own work.
Second, if it contains a self-citation, it is far more likely to containa direct statement of continuation (25%) than a criticism (3%).
Third, the importanceof a citation has been related to the distinction between authorial and parentheticalcitations.
Citations are called authorial if they form a syntactically integral part of thesentence or parenthetical if they do not (Swales 1990).
In most cases, authorial citationsare used as the subject of a sentence, and parenthetical ones appear toward the middleor the end of the sentence.We built a recognizer for formal citations.
It parses the reference list at the end ofthe article and determines whether a citation is a self-citation (i.e., if there is an overlapbetween the names of the cited researchers and the authors of the current paper), andit also finds occurrences of authors?
names in running text, but outside of formalcitation contexts (e.g., Chomsky also claims that .
.
.
).
The citation feature reports whethera sentence contains an author name, a citation, or nothing.
If it contains a citation,the value records whether it is a self-citation and also records the location of thecitation in the sentence (in the beginning, the middle, or the end).
This last distinctionis a heuristic for the authorial/parenthetical distinction.
We also experimented withincluding the number of different citations in a sentence, but this did not improveresults.History.
As there are typical patterns in the rhetorical zones (e.g., AIM sentencestend to follow CONTRAST sentences), we wanted to include the category assigned tothe previous sentence as one of the features.
In unseen text, however, the previoustarget is unknown at training time (it is determined during testing).
It can, however,be calculated as a second pass process during training.
In order to avoid a full Viterbisearch of all possibilities, we perform a beam search with width of three among thecandidates of the previous sentence, following Barzilay et al (2000).Formulaic expressions.
We now turn to the last three features in our feature pool, themetadiscourse features, which are more sophisticated than the other features.
The firstmetadiscourse feature models formulaic expressions like the ones described by Swales,as they are semantic indicators that we expect to be helpful for rhetorical classification.We use a list of phrases described by regular expressions, similar to Paice?s (1990)grammar.
Our list is divided into 18 semantic classes (cf.
Table 5), comprising a totalof 644 patterns.
The fact that phrases are clustered is a simple way of dealing withdata sparseness.
In fact, our experiments in section 5.1.2 will show the usefulnessof our (manual) semantic clusters: The clustered list performs much better than theunclustered list (i.e., when the string itself is used as a value instead of its semanticclass).Agent.
Agents and actions are more challenging to recognize.
We use a mechanismthat, dependent on the voice of a sentence, recognizes agents (subjects or prepositionalphrases headed by by) and their predicates (?actions?).
Classification of agents andactions relies on a manually created lexicon of manual classes.
As in the Formulaicfeature, similar agents and actions are generalized and clustered together to avoid datasparseness.429Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific ArticlesTable 5Formulaic expression lexicon.Indicator Type Example NumberGAP INTRODUCTION to our knowledge 3GENERAL FORMULAIC in traditional approaches 10DEIXIS in this paper 11SIMILARITY similar to 56COMPARISON when compared to our 204CONTRAST however 6DETAIL this paper has also 4METHOD a novel method for VERB?ing 33PREVIOUS CONTEXT elsewhere, we have 25FUTURE avenue for improvement 16AFFECT hopefully 4CONTINUATION following the argument in 19IN ORDER TO in order to 1POSITIVE ADJECTIVE appealing 68NEGATIVE ADJECTIVE unsatisfactory 119THEM FORMULAIC along the lines of 6TEXTSTRUCTURE in section 3 16NO TEXTSTRUCTURE described in the last section 43Total of 18 classes 644Table 6Agent lexicon.Agent Type Example Number RemovedUS AGENT we 22THEM AGENT his approach 21GENERAL AGENT traditional methods 20 XUS PREVIOUS AGENT the approach in SELFCITE 7OUR AIM AGENT the point of this study 23REF US AGENT this method (this WORK NOUN) 6REF AGENT the paper 11 XTHEM PRONOUN AGENT they 1 XAIM REF AGENT its goal 8GAP AGENT none of these papers 8PROBLEM AGENT these drawbacks 3 XSOLUTION AGENT a way out of this dilemma 4 XTEXTSTRUCTURE AGENT the concluding chapter 33Total of 13 classes 167The lexicon for agent patterns (cf.
Table 6) contains 13 types of agents and a totalof 167 patterns.
These 167 patterns expand to many more strings as we use a replacemechanism (e.g., the placeholder WORK NOUN in the sixth row of Table 6 can bereplaced by a set of 37 nouns including theory, method, prototype, algorithm).The main three agent types we distinguish are US AGENT, THEM AGENT, and GEN-ERAL AGENT, following the types of intellectual attribution discussed above.
A fourthtype is US PREVIOUS AGENT (the authors, but in a previous paper).Additional agent types include nonpersonal agents like aims, problems, solu-tions, absence of solution, or textual segments.
There are four equivalence classes of430Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4agents with ambiguous reference (?this system?
): REF AGENT, REF US AGENT, THEM PRO-NOUN AGENT, and AIM REF AGENT.Agent classes were created based on intuition, but subsequently each class wastested with corpus statistics to determine whether it should be removed or not.
Wewanted to find and exclude classes that had a distribution very similar to the overalldistribution of the target categories, as such features are not distinctive.
We measuredassociations using the log-likelihood measure (Dunning 1993) for each combination oftarget category and semantic class by converting each cell of the contingency into a 2?2contingency table.
We kept only classes of verbs in which at least one category showeda high association (gscore > 5.0), as that means that in these cases the distribution wassignificantly different from the overall distribution.
The last column in Table 6 showsthat the classes THEM PRONOUN, GENERAL, SOLUTION, PROBLEM, and REF were removed;removal improved the performance of the Agent feature.SegAgent.
SegAgent is a variant of the Agent feature that keeps track of previouslyrecognized agents; unmarked sentences receive these previous agents as a value (inthe Agent feature, they would have received the value None).Action.
We use a manually created action lexicon containing 365 verbs (cf.
Table 7).The verbs are clustered into 20 classes based on semantic concepts such as similarity,contrast, competition, presentation, argumentation, and textual structure.
For exam-ple, PRESENTATION ACTIONs include communication verbs like present, report, and state(Myers 1992; Thompson and Yiyun 1991), RESEARCH ACTIONS include analyze, conduct,define and observe, and ARGUMENTATION ACTIONS include argue, disagree, and object to.Domain-specific actions are contained in the classes indicating a problem (fail, degrade,waste, overestimate) and solution-contributing actions (circumvent, solve, mitigate).
TheTable 7Action lexicon.Action Type Example Number RemovedAFFECT we hope to improve our results 9 XARGUMENTATION we argue against a model of 19 XAWARENESS we are not aware of attempts 5 +BETTER SOLUTION our system outperforms .
.
.
9 ?CHANGE we extend CITE?s algorithm 23COMPARISON we tested our system against .
.
.
4CONTINUATION we follow CITE .
.
.
13CONTRAST our approach differs from .
.
.
12 ?FUTURE INTEREST we intend to improve .
.
.
4 XINTEREST we are concerned with .
.
.
28NEED this approach, however, lacks .
.
.
8 XPRESENTATION we present here a method for .
.
.
19 ?PROBLEM this approach fails .
.
.
61 ?RESEARCH we collected our data from .
.
.
54SIMILAR our approach resembles that of 13SOLUTION we solve this problem by .
.
.
64TEXTSTRUCTURE the paper is organized .
.
.
13USE we employ CITE?s method .
.
.
5COPULA our goal is to .
.
.
1POSSESSION we have three goals .
.
.
1Total of 20 classes 365431Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific Articlesrecognition of negation is essential; the semantics of not solving is closer to being prob-lematic than it is to solving.The following classes were removed by the gscore test described above, becausetheir distribution was too similar to the overall distribution: FUTURE INTEREST, NEED,ARGUMENTATION, AFFECT in both negative and positive contexts (X in last column ofTable 7), and AWARENESS only in positive context (+ in last column).
The followingclasses had too few occurrences in negative context (< 10 occurrences in the whole verbclass) and thus the negative context of the class was also removed: BETTER SOLUTION,CONTRAST, PRESENTATION, PROBLEM (?
in last column).
Again, the removal improvedthe performance of the Action feature.The algorithm for determining agents and actions relies on finite-state patternsover part-of-speech (POS) tags.
Starting from each finite verb, the algorithm collectschains of auxiliaries belonging to the associated finite clause and thus determines theclause?s tense and voice.
Other finite verbs and commas are assumed to be clauseboundaries.
Once the semantic verb is found, its stem is looked up in the actionlexicon.
Negation is determined if one of 32 fixed negation words is present in asix-word window to the right of the finite verb.As our classifier requires one unique value for each classified item for each feature,we had to choose one value for sentences containing more than one finite clause.
Wereturn the following values for the action and agents feature: the first agent/actionpair, if both are nonzero, otherwise the first agent without an action, otherwise thefirst action without an agent, if available.In order to determine the level of correctness of agent and action recognition, wehad first to evaluate manually the error level of the POS tagging of finite verbs, as ouralgorithm crucially relies on finite verbs.
In a random sample of 100 sentences fromour development corpus that contain any finite verbs at all (they happened to containa total of 184 finite verbs), the tagger (which is part of the TTT software) showed arecall of 95% and a precision of 93%.We found that for the 174 correctly determined finite verbs, the heuristics fornegation and presence of modal auxiliaries worked without any errors (100% accu-racy, eight negated sentences).
The correct semantic verb was determined with 96%accuracy; most errors were due to misrecognition of clause boundaries.
Action Typelookup was fully correct (100% accuracy), even in the case of phrasal verbs and longeridiomatic expressions (have to is a NEED ACTION; be inspired by is a CONTINUE ACTION).There were seven voice errors, two of which were due to POS-tagging errors (past par-ticiple misrecognized).
The remaining five voice errors correspond to 98% accuracy.Correctness of Agent Type determination was tested on a random sample of 100sentences containing at least one agent, resulting in 111 agents.
No agent pattern thatshould have been identified was missed (100% recall).
Of the 111 agents, 105 cases werecorrect (precision of 95%).
Therefore, we consider the two features to be adequatelyrobust to serve as sentential features in our system.Having detailed the features and classifiers of the machine learning system weuse, we will now turn to an intrinsic evaluation of its performance.5.
Intrinsic System EvaluationOur task is to perform content selection from scientific articles, which we do by clas-sifying sentences into seven rhetorical categories.
The summaries based on this classi-fication use some of these sentences directly, namely, sentences that express the con-tribution of a particular article (AIM), sentences expressing contrasts with other work(CONTRAST), and sentences stating imported solutions from other work (BASIS).
Other,432Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4more frequent rhetorical categories, namely OTHER, OWN, and BACKGROUND, mightalso be extracted into the summary.Because the task is a mixture of extraction and classification, we report systemperformance as follows:?
We first report precision and recall values for all categories, incomparison to human performance and the text categorization baseline,as we are primarily interested in good performance on the categoriesAIM, CONTRAST, BASIS, and BACKGROUND.?
We are also interested in good overall classification performance, whichwe report using kappa and macro-F as our metric.
We also discuss howwell each single features does in the classification.?
We then compare the extracted sentences to our human gold standardfor relevance and report the agreement in precision and agreement percategory.5.1 Determination of Rhetorical StatusThe results of stochastic classification were compiled with a 10-fold cross-validation onour 80-paper corpus.
As we do not have much annotated material, cross-validation isa practical way to test as it can make use of the full development corpus for training,without ever using the same data for training and testing.5.1.1 Overall Results.
Table 8 and Figure 11 show that the stochastic model obtainssubstantial improvement over the baseline in terms of precision and recall of the im-portant categories AIM, BACKGROUND, CONTRAST, and BASIS.
We use the F-measure,defined by van Rijsbergen (1979) as 2PRP+R , as a convenient way of reporting precision (P)and recall (R) in one value.
F-measures for our categories range from .61 (TEXTUAL)and .52 (AIM) to .45 (BACKGROUND), .38 (BASIS), and .26 (CONTRAST).
The recall forsome categories is relatively low.
As our gold standard is designed to contain a lotof redundant information for the same category, this is not too worrying.
Low pre-cision in some categories (e.g., 34% for CONTRAST, in contrast to human precision of50%), however, could potentially present a problem for later steps in the documentsummarization process.Overall, we find these results encouraging, particularly in view of the subjectivenature of the task and the high compression achieved (2% for AIM, BASIS, and TEXTUALsentences, 5% for CONTRAST sentences, and 6% for BACKGROUND sentences).
No directcomparison with Kupiec, Pedersen, and Chen?s results is possible as different datasets are used and as Kupiec et al?s relevant sentences do not directly map into oneof our categories.
Assuming, however, that their relevant sentences are probably mostTable 8Performance per category: F-measure (F), precision (P) and recall (R).AIM CONTR.
TEXTUAL OWN BACKG.
BASIS OTHERF P R F P R F P R F P R F P R F P R F P RSystem 52 44 65 26 34 20 61 57 66 86 84 88 45 40 50 38 37 40 44 52 39Baseline 11 30 7 17 31 12 23 56 15 83 78 90 22 32 17 7 15 5 44 47 42Humans 63 72 56 52 50 55 79 79 79 93 94 92 71 68 75 48 82 34 78 74 83433Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific ArticlesFigure 11Performance per category: F-measure.Table 9Confusion matrix: Human versus automatic annotation.MACHINEAIM CTR TXT OWN BKG BAS OTH TotalHUMAN AIM 127 6 13 23 19 5 10 203CTR 21 112 4 204 87 18 126 572TXT 14 1 145 46 6 2 6 220OWN 100 108 84 7,231 222 71 424 8,240BKG 14 31 1 222 370 5 101 744BAS 17 7 7 60 8 97 39 235OTH 6 70 10 828 215 72 773 1,974Total 299 335 264 8,614 927 270 1,479 12,188comparable to our AIM sentences, our precision and recall of 44% and 65% comparefavorably to theirs (42% and 42%).Table 9 shows a confusion matrix between one annotator and the system.
Thesystem is likely to confuse AIM and OWN sentences (e.g., 100 out of 172 sentencesincorrectly classified as AIM by the system turned out to be OWN sentences).
It alsoshows a tendency to confuse OTHER and OWN sentences.
The system also fails to dis-tinguish categories involving other people?s work (e.g.
OTHER, BASIS, and CONTRAST).Overall, these tendencies mirror human errors, as can be seen from a comparison withTable 2.Table 10 shows the results in terms of three overall measures: kappa, percentageaccuracy, and macro-F (following Lewis [1991]).
Macro-F is the mean of the F-measuresof all seven categories.
One reason for using macro-F and kappa is that we want tomeasure success particularly on the rare categories that are needed for our final task(i.e., AIM, BASIS, and CONTRAST).
Microaveraging techniques like traditional accuracytend to overestimate the contribution of frequent categories in skewed distributionslike ours; this is undesirable, as OWN is the least interesting category for our purposes.This situation has parallels in information retrieval, where precision and recall are usedbecause accuracy overestimates the performance on irrelevant items.434Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4Table 10Overall classification results.System/Baseline Compared with One Human Annotator 3 HumansSystem Text Class.
Random Random (Distr.)
Most Freq.Kappa .45 .30 ?.10 0 ?.13 .71Accuracy .73 .72 .14 .48 .67 .87Macro-F .50 .30 .09 .14 .11 .69In the case of macro-F, each category is treated as one unit, independent of thenumber of items contained in it.
Therefore, the classification success of the individualitems in rare categories is given more importance than the classification success offrequent-category items.
When looking at the numerical values, however, one shouldkeep in mind that macroaveraging results are in general numerically lower (Yang andLiu 1999).
This is because there are fewer training cases for the rare categories, whichtherefore perform worse with most classifiers.In the case of kappa, classifications that incorrectly favor frequent categories arepunished because of a high random agreement.
This effect can be shown most easilywhen the baselines are considered.
The most ambitious baseline we use is the output ofa text categorization system, as described in section 4.
Other possible baselines, whichare all easier to beat, include classification by the most frequent category.
This baselineturns out to be trivial, as it does not extract any of the rare rhetorical categories in whichwe are particularly interested, and therefore receives a low kappa value at K = ?.12.Possible chance baselines include random annotation with uniform distribution (K =?.10; accuracy of 14%) and random annotation with observed distribution.
The latterbaseline is built into the definition of kappa (K = 0; accuracy of 48%).Although our system outperforms an ambitious baseline (macro-F shows that oursystem performs roughly 20% better than text classification) and also performs muchabove chance, there is still a big gap in performance between humans and machine.Macro-F shows a 20% difference between our system and human performance.
Ifthe system is put into a pool of annotators for the 25 articles for which three-wayhuman judgment exists, agreement drops from K = .71 to K = .59.
This is a clearindication that the system?s annotation is still distinguishably different from humanannotation.5.1.2 Feature Impact.
The previous results were compiled using all features, which isthe optimal feature combination (as determined by an exhaustive search in the spaceof feature combinations).
The most distinctive single feature is Location (achieving anagreement of K = .22 against one annotator, if this feature is used as the sole feature),followed by SegAgent (K = .19), Citations (K = .18), Headlines (K = .17), Agent(K = .08), and Formulaic (K = .07).
In each case, the unclustered versions of Agent,SegAgent, and Formulaic performed much worse than the clustered versions; theydid not improve final results when added into the feature pool.Action performs slightly better at K = ?.11 than the baseline by most frequentcategory, but far worse than random by observed distribution.
The following featureson their own classify each sentence as OWN (and therefore achieve K = ?.12): RelativeLocation, Paragraphs, TF*IDF, Title, Sentence Length, Modality, Tense, andVoice.
History performs very badly on its own at K = ?.51; it classifies almost allsentences as BACKGROUND.
It does this because the probability of the first sentence?s435Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific Articlesbeing a BACKGROUND sentence is almost one, and, if no other information is available,it is very likely that another BACKGROUND sentence will follow after a BACKGROUNDsentence.Each of these features, however, still contributes to the final result: If any of themis taken out of the feature pool, classification performance decreases.
How can this be,given that the individual features perform worse than chance?
As the classifier de-rives the posterior probability by multiplying evidence from each feature, even slightevidence coming from one feature can direct the decision in the right direction.
Afeature that contributes little evidence on its own (too little to break the prior prob-ability, which is strongly biased toward OWN) can thus, in combination with others,still help in disambiguating.
For the na?
?ve Bayesian classification method, indeed, itis most important that the features be as independent of each other as possible.
Thisproperty cannot be assessed by looking at the feature?s isolated performance, but onlyin combination with others.It is also interesting to see that certain categories are disambiguated particularlywell by certain features (cf.
Table 11).
The Formulaic feature, which is by no meansthe strongest feature, is nevertheless the most diverse, as it contributes to the disam-biguation of six categories directly.
This is because many different rhetorical categorieshave typical cue phrases associated with them (whereas not all categories have a pre-ferred location in the document).
Not surprisingly, Location and History are thefeatures particularly useful for detecting BACKGROUND sentences, and SegAgent addi-tionally contributes toward the determination of BACKGROUND zones (along with theFormulaic and the Absolute Location features).
The Agent and Action features alsoprove their worth as they manage to disambiguate categories that many of the otherfeatures alone cannot disambiguate (e.g., CONTRAST).5.1.3 System Output: The Example Paper.
In order to give the reader an impressionof how the figures reported in the previous section translate into real output, wepresent in figure 12 the output of the system when run on the example paper (allAIM, CONTRAST, and BASIS sentences).
The second column shows whether the humanjudge agrees with the system?s decision (a tick for correct decisions, and the human?spreferred category for incorrect decisions).
Ten out of the 15 extracted sentences havebeen classified correctly.The example also shows that the determination of rhetorical status is not alwaysstraightforward.
For example, whereas the first AIM sentence that the system proposes(sentence 8) is clearly wrong, all other ?incorrect?
AIM sentences carry important in-Table 11Precision and recall of rhetorical classification, individual features.Features Precision/Recall per Category (in %)AIM CONTR.
TXT.
OWN BACKG.
BASIS OTHERSegAgent alone ?
17/0 ?
74/94 53/16 ?
46/33Agent alone ?
?
?
71/93 ?
?
36/23Location alone ?
?
?
74/97 40/36 ?
28/9Headlines alone ?
?
?
75/95 ?
?
29/25Citation alone ?
?
?
73/96 ?
?
43/30Formulaic alone 40/2 45/2 75/39 71/98 ?
40/1 47/13Action alone ?
43/1 ?
68/99 ?
?
?History alone ?
?
?- 70/8 16/99 ?
?436Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4System HumanAIM (OTH) 8 In Hindle?s proposal, words are similar if we have strong statisticalevidence that they tend to participate in the same events.?
* 10 Our research addresses some of the same questions and uses similar rawdata, but we investigate how to factor word association tendencies intoassociations of words to certain hidden senses classes and associationsbetween the classes themselves.
?11 While it may be worthwhile to base such a model on preexisting senseclasses (Resnik, 1992), in the work described here we look at how toderive the classes directly from distributional data.
(OWN) 12 More specifically, we model senses as probabilistic concepts or clustersc with corresponding cluster membership probabilities EQN for eachword w.?
* 22 We will consider here only the problem of classifying nouns accordingto their distribution as direct objects of verbs; the converse problem isformally similar.
(CTR) 41 However, this is not very satisfactory because one of the goals of ourwork is precisely to avoid the problems of data sparseness by groupingwords into classes.
(OWN) 150 We also evaluated asymmetric cluster models on a verb decision taskcloser to possible applications to disambiguation in language analysis.?
* 162 We have demonstrated that a general divisive clustering procedure forprobability distributions can be used to group words according to theirparticipation in particular grammatical relations with other words.BAS?19 The corpus used in our first experiment was derived from newswire textautomatically parsed by Hindle?s parser Fidditch (Hindle, 1993).
?20 More recently, we have constructed similar tables with the help of astatistical part-of-speech tagger (Church, 1988) and of tools for regularexpression pattern matching on tagged corpora (Yarowsky, 1992).?
* 113 The analogy with statistical mechanics suggests a deterministic anneal-ing procedure for clustering (Rose et al, 1990), in which the numberof clusters is determined through a sequence of phase transitions bycontinuously increasing the parameter EQN following an annealingschedule.CTR?
* 9 His notion of similarity seems to agree with our intuitions in manycases, but it is not clear how it can be used directly to construct wordclasses and corresponding models of association.?
* 14 Class construction is then combinatorially very demanding and de-pends on frequency counts for joint events involving particular words,a potentially unreliable source of information as we noted above.
(OWN) 21 We have not yet compared the accuracy and coverage of the two methods,or what systematic biases they might introduce, although we took careto filter out certain systematic errors, for instance the misparsing of thesubject of a complement clause as the direct object of a main verb forreport verbs like ?say?.
?43 This is a useful advantage of our method compared with agglomerativeclustering techniques that need to compare individual objects beingconsidered for grouping.Figure 12System output for example paper.formation about research goals of the paper: Sentence 41 states the goal in explicitterms, but it also contains a contrastive statement, which the annotator decided to ratehigher than the goal statement.
Both sentences 12 and 150 give high-level descrip-tions of the work that might pass as a goal statement.
Similarly, in sentence 21 theagent and action features detected that the first part of the sentence has something todo with comparing methods, and the system then (plausibly but incorrectly) decided437Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific Articlesto classify the sentence as CONTRAST.
All in all, we feel that the extracted materialconveys the rhetorical status adequately.
An extrinsic evaluation additionally showedthat the end result provides considerable added value when compared to sentenceextracts (Teufel 2001).5.2 Relevance DeterminationThe classifier for rhetorical status that we evaluated in the previous section is an im-portant first step in our implementation; the next step is the determination of relevantsentences in the text.
One simple solution for relevance decision would be to use allAIM, BASIS, and CONTRAST sentences, as these categories are rare overall.
The classifierwe use has the nice property of roughly keeping the distribution of target categories,so that we end up with a sensible number of these sentences.The strategy of using all AIM, CONTRAST, and BASIS sentences can be evaluatedin a similar vein to the previous experiment.
In terms of relevance, the asterisk infigure 12 marks sentences that the human judge found particularly relevant in theoverall context (cf.
the full set in figure 5).
Six out of all 15 sentences, and 6 out ofthe 10 sentences that received the correct rhetorical status, were judged relevant in theexample.Table 12 reports the figure for the entire corpus by comparing the system?s outputof correctly classified rhetorical categories to human judgment.
In all cases, the resultsare far above the nontrivial baseline.
On AIM, CONTRAST, and BASIS sentences, oursystem achieves very high precision values of 96%, 70%, and 71%.
Recall is lower at70%, 24%, and 39%, but low recall is less of a problem in our final task.
Therefore,the main bottleneck is correct rhetorical classification.
Once that is accomplished, theselected categories show high agreement with human judgment and should thereforerepresent good material for further processing steps.If, however, one is also interested in selecting BACKGROUND sentences, as we are,simply choosing all BACKGROUND sentences would result in low precision of 16%(albeit with a high recall of 83%), which does not seem to be the optimal solution.We therefore use a second classifier for finding the most relevant sentences indepen-dently that was trained on the relevance gold standard.
Our best classifier operatesat a precision of 46.5% and recall of 45.2% (using the features Location, SectionStruct, Paragraph Struct, Title, TF*IDF, Formulaic, and Citation for classifi-cation).
The second classifier (cf.
rightmost columns in figure 12) raises the preci-sion for BACKGROUND sentences from 16% to 38%, while keeping recall high at 88%.This example shows that the right procedure for relevance determination changesfrom category to category and also depends on the final task one is tryingto accomplish.Table 12Relevance by human selection: Precision (P) and recall (R).AIM CONTR.
BASIS BACKGROUNDWithout WithClassifier ClassifierP R P R P R P R P RSystem 96.2 69.8 70.1 23.8 70.5 39.4 16.0 83.3 38.4 88.2Baseline 26.1 6.4 23.5 14.4 6.94 2.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0438Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 46.
Discussion6.1 ContributionWe have presented a new method for content selection from scientific articles.
The anal-ysis is genre-specific; it is based on rhetorical phenomena specific to academic writing,such as problem-solution structure, explicit intellectual attribution, and statements ofrelatedness to other work.
The goal of the analysis is to identify the contribution ofan article in relation to background material and to other specific current work.Our methodology is situated between text extraction methods and fact extraction(template-filling) methods: Although our analysis has the advantage of being morecontext-sensitive than text extraction methods, it retains the robustness of this approachtoward different subdomains, presentational traditions, and writing styles.Like fact extraction methods (e.g., Radev and McKeown 1998), our method alsouses a ?template?
whose slots are being filled during analysis.
The slots of our templateare defined as rhetorical categories (like ?Contrast?)
rather than by domain-specificcategories (like ?Perpetrator?).
This makes it possible for our approach to deal withtexts of different domains and unexpected topics.Sparck Jones (1999) argues that it is crucial for a summarization strategy to relatethe large-scale document structure of texts to readers?
tasks in the real world (i.e., tothe proposed use of the summaries).
We feel that incorporating a robust analysis ofdiscourse structure into a document summarizer is one step along this way.Our practical contributions are twofold.
First, we present a scheme for the anno-tation of sentences with rhetorical status, and we have shown that the annotation isstable (K = .82, .81, .76) and reproducible (K = .71).
Since these results indicate thatthe annotation is reliable, we use it as our gold standard for evaluation and training.Second, we present a machine learning system for the classification of sentences byrelevance and by rhetorical status.
The contribution here is not the statistical classifier,which is well-known and has been used in a similar task by Kupiec, Pedersen, andOren (1995), but instead the features we use.
We have adapted 13 sentential featuresin such a way that they work robustly for our task (i.e., for unrestricted, real-worldtext).
We also present three new features that detect scientific metadiscourse in a novelway.
The results of an intrinsic system evaluation show that the system can identifysentences expressing the specific goal of a paper with 57% precision and 79% recall,sentences expressing criticism or contrast with 57% precision and 42% recall, andsentences expressing a continuation relationship to other work with 62% precisionand 43% recall.
This substantially improves a baseline of text classification which usesonly a TF*IDF model over words.
The agreement of correctly identified rhetorical roleswith human relevance judgments is even higher (96% precision and 70% recall for goalstatements, 70% precision and 24% recall for contrast, 71% precision and 39% recall forcontinuation).
We see these results as an indication that shallow discourse processingwith a well-designed set of surface-based indicators is possible.6.2 Limitations and Future WorkThe metadiscourse features, one focus of our work, currently depend on manual re-sources.
The experiments reported here explore whether metadiscourse information isuseful for the automatic determination of rhetorical status (as opposed to more shallowfeatures), and this is clearly the case.
The next step, however, should be the automaticcreation of such resources.
For the task of dialogue act disambiguation, Samuel, Car-berry, and Vijay-Shanker (1999) suggest a method of automatically finding cue phrasesfor disambiguation.
It may be possible to apply this or a similar method to our dataand to compare the performance of automatically gained resources with manual ones.439Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific ArticlesFurther work can be done on the semantic verb clusters described in section 4.2.Klavans and Kan (1998), who use verb clusters for document classification according togenre, observe that verb information is rarely used in current practical natural languageapplications.
Most tasks such as information extraction and document classificationidentify and use nominal constructs instead (e.g., noun phrases, TF*IDF words andphrases).The verb clusters we employ were created using our intuition of which type ofverb similarity would be useful in the genre and for the task.
There are good reasonsfor using such a hand-crafted, genre-specific verb lexicon instead of a general resourcesuch as WordNet or Levin?s (1993) classes: Many verbs used in the domain of scien-tific argumentation have assumed a specialized meaning, which our lexicon readilyencodes.
Klavans and Kan?s classes, which are based on Levin?s classes, are also man-ually created.
Resnik and Diab (2000) present yet other measures of verb similarity,which could be used to arrive at a more data-driven definition of verb classes.
Weare currently comparing our verb clusterings to Klavans and Kan?s, and to bottom-upclusters of verb similarities generated from our annotated data.The recognition of agents, which is already the second-best feature in the pool,could be further improved by including named entity recognition and anaphora res-olution.
Named entity recognition would help in cases like the following,LHIP provides a processing method which allows selected portions of the inputto be ignored or handled differently.
(S-5, 9408006)where LHIP is the name of the authors?
approach and should thus be tagged asUS AGENT; to do so, however, one would need to recognize it as a named approach,which is associated with the authors.
It is very likely that such a treatment, whichwould have to include information from elsewhere in the text, would improve re-sults, particularly as named approaches are frequent in the computational linguisticsdomain.
Information about named approaches in themselves would also be an impor-tant aspect to include in summaries or citation indexes.Anaphora resolution helps in cases in which the agent is syntactically ambiguousbetween own and other approaches (e.g., this system).
To test whether and how muchperformance would improve, we manually simulated anaphora resolution on the 632occurrences of REF AGENT in the development corpus.
(In the experiments in section 5these occurrences had been excluded from the Agent feature by giving them the valueNone; we include them now in their disambiguated state).
Of the 632 REF AGENTs,436 (69%) were classified as US AGENT, 175 (28%) as THEM AGENT, and 20 (3%) asGENERAL AGENT.
As a result of this manual disambiguation, the performance of theAgent feature increased dramatically from K = .08 to K = .14 and that of SegAgentfrom K = .19 to K = .22.
This is a clear indication of the potential added value ofanaphora resolution for our task.As far as the statistical classification is concerned, our results are still far fromperfect.
Obvious ways of improving performance are the use of a more sophisticatedstatistical classifier and more training material.
We have experimented with a maxi-mum entropy model, Repeated Incremental Pruning to Produce Error Reduction (RIP-PER), and decision trees; preliminary results do not show significant improvementover the na?
?ve Bayesian model.
One problem is that 4% of the sentences in our cur-rent annotated material are ambiguous: They receive the same feature representationbut are classified differently by the annotators.
A possible solution is to find betterand more distinctive features; we believe that robust, higher-level features like actionsand agents are a step in the right direction.
We also suspect that a big improvement440Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4could be achieved with smaller annotation units.
Many errors come from instances inwhich one half of a sentence serves one rhetorical purpose, the other another, as inthe following example:The current paper shows how to implement this general notion, without fol-lowing Krifka?s analysis in detail.
(S-10, 9411019)Here, the first part describes the paper?s research goal, whereas the second expresses acontrast.
Currently, one target category needs to be associated with the whole sentence(according to a rule in the guidelines, AIM is given preference over CONTRAST).
Asan undesired side effect, the CONTRAST-like textual parts (and the features associatedwith this text piece, e.g., the presence of an author?s name) are wrongly associatedwith the AIM target category.
If we allowed for a smaller annotation unit (e.g., at theclause level), this systematic noise in the training data could be removed.Another improvement in classification accuracy might be achieved by performingthe classification in a cascading way.
The system could first perform a classificationinto OWN-like classes (OWN, AIM, and TEXTUAL pooled), OTHER-like categories (OTHER,CONTRAST, and BASIS pooled), and BACKGROUND, similar to the way human annotationproceeds.
Subclassification among these classes would then lead to the final seven-wayclassification.Appendix: List of articles in CL development corpusNo.
Title, Conference, Authors0 9405001 Similarity-Based Estimation of Word Cooccurrence Probabilities (ACL94), I. Dagan et al1 9405002 Temporal Relations: Reference or Discourse Coherence?
(ACL94 Student), A. Kehler2 9405004 Syntactic-Head-Driven Generation (COLING94), E. Koenig3 9405010 Common Topics and Coherent Situations: Interpreting Ellipsis in the Context of Dis-course Inference (ACL94), A. Kehler4 9405013 Collaboration on Reference to Objects That Are Not Mutually Known (COLING94),P. Edmonds5 9405022 Grammar Specialization through Entropy Thresholds (ACL94), C. Samuelsson6 9405023 An Integrated Heuristic Scheme for Partial Parse Evaluation (ACL94 Student), A. Lavie7 9405028 Semantics of Complex Sentences in Japanese (COLING94), H. Nakagawa, S. Nishizawa8 9405033 Relating Complexity to Practical Performance in Parsing with Wide-Coverage Unifica-tion Grammars (ACL94), J. Carroll9 9405035 Dual-Coding Theory and Connectionist Lexical Selection (ACL94 Student), Y. Wang10 9407011 Discourse Obligations in Dialogue Processing (ACL94), D. Traum, J. Allen11 9408003 Typed Feature Structures as Descriptions (COLING94 Reserve), P. King12 9408004 Parsing with Principles and Probabilities (ACL94 Workshop), A. Fordham, M. Crocker13 9408006 LHIP: Extended DCGs for Configurable Robust Parsing (COLING94), A. Bal-lim, G. Russell14 9408011 Distributional Clustering of English Words (ACL93), F. Pereira et al15 9408014 Qualitative and Quantitative Models of Speech Translation (ACL94 Workshop),H. Alshawi16 9409004 An Experiment on Learning Appropriate Selectional Restrictions from a Parsed Corpus(COLING94), F. Ribas17 9410001 Improving Language Models by Clustering Training Sentences (ANLP94), D. Carter18 9410005 A Centering Approach to Pronouns (ACL87), S. Brennan et al19 9410006 Evaluating Discourse Processing Algorithms (ACL89), M. Walker20 9410008 Recognizing Text Genres with Simple Metrics Using Discriminant Analysis (COLING94),J. Karlgren, D. Cutting21 9410009 Reserve Lexical Functions and Machine Translation (COLING94), D. Heylen et al22 9410012 Does Baum-Welch Re-estimation Help Taggers?
(ANLP94), D. Elworthy23 9410022 Automated Tone Transcription (ACL94 SIG), S. Bird24 9410032 Planning Argumentative Texts (COLING94), X. Huang25 9410033 Default Handling in Incremental Generation (COLING94), K. Harbusch et al26 9411019 Focus on ?Only?
and ?Not?
(COLING94), A. Ramsay27 9411021 Free-Ordered CUG on Chemical Abstract Machine (COLING94), S. Tojo441Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific Articles28 9411023 Abstract Generation Based on Rhetorical Structure Extraction (COLING94), K. Ono etal.29 9412005 Segmenting Speech without a Lexicon: The Roles of Phonotactics and Speech Source(ACL94 SIG), T. Cartwright, M. Brent30 9412008 Analysis of Japanese Compound Nouns Using Collocational Information (COLING94),Y. Kobayasi et al31 9502004 Bottom-Up Earley Deduction (COLING94), G. Erbach32 9502005 Off-Line Optimization for Earley-Style HPSG Processing (EACL95), G. Minnen et al33 9502006 Rapid Development of Morphological Descriptions for Full Language Processing Sys-tems (EACL95), D. Carter34 9502009 On Learning More Appropriate Selectional Restrictions (EACL95), F. Ribas35 9502014 Ellipsis and Quantification: A Substitutional Approach (EACL95), R. Crouch36 9502015 The Semantics of Resource Sharing in Lexical-Functional Grammar (EACL95), A. Kehleret al37 9502018 Algorithms for Analysing the Temporal Structure of Discourse (EACL95), J. Hitzemanet al38 9502021 A Tractable Extension of Linear Indexed Grammars (EACL95), B. Keller, D. Weir39 9502022 Stochastic HPSG (EACL95), C. Brew40 9502023 Splitting the Reference Time: Temporal Anaphora and Quantification in DRT (EACL95),R. Nelken, N. Francez41 9502024 A Robust Parser Based on Syntactic Information (EACL95), K. Lee et al42 9502031 Cooperative Error Handling and Shallow Processing (EACL95 Student), T. Bowden43 9502033 An Algorithm to Co-ordinate Anaphora Resolution and PPS Disambiguation Process(EACL95 Student), S. Azzam44 9502035 Incorporating ?Unconscious Reanalysis?
into an Incremental, Monotonic Parser(EACL95 Student), P. Sturt45 9502037 A State-Transition Grammar for Data-Oriented Parsing (EACL95 Student), D. Tugwell46 9502038 Implementation and Evaluation of a German HMM for POS Disambiguation (EACL95Workshop), H. Feldweg47 9502039 Multilingual Sentence Categorization According to Language (EACL95 Workshop),E. Giguet48 9503002 Computational Dialectology in Irish Gaelic (EACL95), B. Kessler49 9503004 Creating a Tagset, Lexicon and Guesser for a French Tagger (EACL95 Workshop),J. Chanod, P. Tapanainen50 9503005 A Specification Language for Lexical Functional Grammars (EACL95), P. Blackburn,C.
Gardent51 9503007 The Semantics of Motion (EACL95), P. Sablayrolles52 9503009 Distributional Part-of-Speech Tagging (EACL95), H. Schuetze53 9503013 Incremental Interpretation: Applications, Theory, and Relationship to Dynamic Seman-tics (COLING95), D. Milward, R. Cooper54 9503014 Non-constituent Coordination: Theory and Practice (COLING94), D. Milward55 9503015 Incremental Interpretation of Categorial Grammar (EACL95), D. Milward56 9503017 Redundancy in Collaborative Dialogue (COLING92), M. Walker57 9503018 Discourse and Deliberation: Testing a Collaborative Strategy (COLING94), M. Walker58 9503023 A Fast Partial Parse of Natural Language Sentences Using a Connectionist Method(EACL95), C. Lyon, B. Dickerson59 9503025 Occurrence Vectors from Corpora vs.
Distance Vectors from Dictionaries (COLING94),Y. Niwa, Y. Nitta60 9504002 Tagset Design and Inflected Languages (EACL95 Workshop), D. Elworthy61 9504006 Cues and Control in Expert-Client Dialogues (ACL88), S. Whittaker, P. Stenton62 9504007 Mixed Initiative in Dialogue: An Investigation into Discourse Segmentation (ACL90),M. Walker, S. Whittaker63 9504017 A Uniform Treatment of Pragmatic Inferences in Simple and Complex Utterances andSequences of Utterances (ACL95), D. Marcu, G. Hirst64 9504024 A Morphographemic Model for Error Correction in Nonconcatenative Strings (ACL95),T. Bowden, G. Kiraz65 9504026 The Intersection of Finite State Automata and Definite Clause Grammars (ACL95),G. van Noord66 9504027 An Efficient Generation Algorithm for Lexicalist MT (ACL95), V. Poznanski et al67 9504030 Statistical Decision-Tree Models for Parsing (ACL95), D. Magerman68 9504033 Corpus Statistics Meet the Noun Compound: Some Empirical Results (ACL95), M. Lauer79 9504034 Bayesian Grammar Induction for Language Modeling (ACL95), S. Chen70 9505001 Response Generation in Collaborative Negotiation (ACL95), J. Chu-Carroll, S. Carberry71 9506004 Using Higher-Order Logic Programming for Semantic Interpretation of Coordinate Con-structs (ACL95), S. Kulick72 9511001 Countability and Number in Japanese-to-English Machine Translation (COLING94),F. Bond et al442Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 473 9511006 Disambiguating Noun Groupings with Respect to WordNet Senses (ACL95 Workshop),P. Resnik74 9601004 Similarity between Words Computed by Spreading Activation on an English Dictionary(EACL93), H. Kozima, T. Furugori75 9604019 Magic for Filter Optimization in Dynamic Bottom-up Processing (ACL96), G. Minnen76 9604022 Unsupervised Learning of Word-Category Guessing Rules (ACL96), A. Mikheev77 9605013 Learning Dependencies between Case Frame Slots (COLING96), H. Li, N. Abe78 9605014 Clustering Words with the MDL Principle (COLING96), H. Li, N. Abe79 9605016 Parsing for Semidirectional Lambek Grammar is NP-Complete (ACL96), J. DoerreAcknowledgmentsThe work reported in this article wasconducted while both authors were in theHCRC Language Technology Group at theUniversity of Edinburgh.The authors would like to thank JeanCarletta for her help with the experimentaldesign, Chris Brew for many helpfuldiscussions, Claire Grover and AndreiMikheev for advice on the XMLimplementation, and the annotators, VasilisKaraiskos and Anne Wilson, for theirmeticulous work and criticism, which led toseveral improvements in the annotationscheme.
Thanks also to ByronGeorgantopolous, who helped to collect thefirst version of the corpus, and to the fouranonymous reviewers.ReferencesBarzilay, Regina, Michael Collins, JuliaHirschberg, and Steve Whittaker.
2000.The rules behind roles.
In Proceedings ofAAAI-00.Barzilay, Regina, Kathleen R. McKeown,and Michael Elhadad.
1999.
Informationfusion in the context of multi-documentsummarization.
In Proceedings of the 37thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL-99),pages 550?557.Baxendale, Phyllis B.
1958.
Man-made indexfor technical literature?An experiment.IBM Journal of Research and Development,2(4):354?361.Biber, Douglas.
1995.
Dimensions of RegisterVariation: A Cross-Linguistic Comparison.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,England.Brandow, Ronald, Karl Mitze, and LisaF.
Rau.
1995.
Automatic condensation ofelectronic publications by sentenceselection.
Information Processing andManagement, 31(5):675?685.Carletta, Jean.
1996.
Assessing agreement onclassification tasks.
The kappa statistic.Computational Linguistics, 22(2):249?254.Choi, Freddy Y. Y.
2000.
Advances indomain independent linear textsegmentation.
In Proceedings of the SixthApplied Natural Language Conference(ANLP-00) and the First Meeting of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (NAACL-00),pages 26?33.CMP LG.
1994.
The computation andlanguage e-print archive.http://xxx.lanl.gov/cmp-lg.Dunning, Ted.
1993.
Accurate methods forthe statistics of surprise and coincidence.Computational Linguistics, 19(1):61?74.Edmundson, H. P. 1969.
New methods inautomatic extracting.
Journal of theAssociation for Computing Machinery,16(2):264?285.Edmundson, H. P., and Wyllys, R. E. 1961.Automatic abstracting andindexing?Survey and recommendations.Communications of the ACM, 4(5):226?234.Garfield, Eugene.
1979.
Citation Indexing: ItsTheory and Application in Science, Technologyand Humanities.
J. Wiley, New York.Grefenstette, Gregory.
1998.
Producingintelligent telegraphic text reduction toprovide an audio scanning service for theblind.
In D. R. Radev and E. H. Hovy,editors, Working Notes of the AAAI SpringSymposium on Intelligent TextSummarization, pages 111?117.Grover, Claire, Andrei Mikheev, and ColinMatheson.
1999.
LT TTT version 1.0: Texttokenisation software.
Technical Report,Human Communication Research Centre,University of Edinburgh.http://www.ltg.ed.ac.uk/software/ttt/.Hearst, Marti A.
1997.
Texttiling:Segmenting text into multi-paragraphsubtopic passages.
ComputationalLinguistics, 23(1):33?64.Hyland, Ken.
1998.
Persuasion and context:The pragmatics of academicmetadiscourse.
Journal of Pragmatics,30(4):437?455.Jing, Hongyan, Regina Barzilay, KathleenR.
McKeown, and Michael Elhadad.
1998.Summarization evaluation methods:Experiments and analysis.
In D. R. Radevand E. H. Hovy, editors, Working Notes ofthe AAAI Spring Symposium on Intelligent443Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific ArticlesText Summarization, pages 60?68.Jing, Hongyan and Kathleen R. McKeown.2000.
Cut and paste based summarization.In Proceedings of the Sixth Applied NaturalLanguage Conference (ANLP-00) and the FirstMeeting of the North American Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics(NAACL-00), pages 178?185.Jordan, Michael P. 1984.
Rhetoric of EverydayEnglish Texts.
Allen and Unwin, London.Klavans, Judith L. and Min-Yen Kan. 1998.Role of verbs in document analysis.
InProceedings of the 36th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics andthe 17th International Conference onComputational Linguistics(ACL/COLING-98), pages 680?686.Knight, Kevin and Daniel Marcu.
2000.Statistics-based summarization?Step one:Sentence compression.
In Proceedings of the17th National Conference of the AmericanAssociation for Artificial Intelligence(AAAI-2000), pages 703?710.Krippendorff, Klaus.
1980.
Content Analysis:An Introduction to Its Methodology.
SagePublications, Beverly Hills, CA.Kupiec, Julian, Jan O. Pedersen, andFrancine Chen.
1995.
A trainabledocument summarizer.
In Proceedings ofthe 18th Annual International Conference onResearch and Development in InformationRetrieval (SIGIR-95), pages 68?73.Lancaster, Frederick Wilfrid.
1998.
Indexingand Abstracting in Theory and Practice.Library Association, London.Landis, J. Richard and Gary G. Koch.
1977.The measurement of observer agreementfor categorical data.
Biometrics, 33:159?174.Lawrence, Steve, C. Lee Giles, and KurtBollacker.
1999.
Digital libraries andautonomous citation indexing.
IEEEComputer, 32(6):67?71.Levin, Beth.
1993.
English Verb Classes andAlternations.
University of Chicago Press,Chicago.Lewis, David D. 1991.
Evaluating textcategorisation.
In Speech and NaturalLanguage: Proceedings of the ARPA Workshopof Human Language Technology.Liddy, Elizabeth DuRoss.
1991.
Thediscourse-level structure of empiricalabstracts: An exploratory study.Information Processing and Management,27(1):55?81.Lin, Chin-Yew and Eduard H. Hovy.
1997.Identifying topics by position.
InProceedings of the Fifth Applied NaturalLanguage Conference (ANLP-97),pages 283?290.Luhn, Hans Peter.
1958.
The automaticcreation of literature abstracts.
IBM Journalof Research and Development, 2(2):159?165.Mani, Inderjeet, Therese Firmin, DavidHouse, Gary Klein, Beth Sundheim, andLynette Hirschman.
1999.
The TIPSTERSUMMAC text summarization evaluation.In Proceedings of the Ninth Meeting of theEuropean Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (EACL-99),pages 77?85.Mani, Inderjeet, Barbara Gates, and EricBloedorn.
1999.
Improving summaries byrevising them.
In Proceedings of the 37thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL-99),pages 558?565.Mann, William C. and Sandra A.Thompson.
1987.
Rhetorical structuretheory: Description and construction oftext structures.
In Gerard Kempen, editor,Natural Language Generation: New Results inArtificial Intelligence, Psychology, andLinguistics.
Martinus Nijhoff Publishers,Dordrecht, the Netherlands, pages 85?95.Marcu, Daniel.
1999.
Discourse trees aregood indicators of importance in text.
InI.
Mani and M. T. Maybury, editors,Advances in Automatic Text Summarization.MIT Press, Cambridge, pages 123?136.McCallum, Andrew.
1997.
Trainingalgorithms for linear text classifiers.
InProceedings of the 19th Annual InternationalConference on Research and Development inInformation Retrieval (SIGIR-97).Mizzaro, Stefano.
1997.
Relevance: Thewhole history.
Journal of the AmericanSociety for Information Science,48(9):810?832.Morris, Jane and Graeme Hirst.
1991.Lexical cohesion computed by thesauralrelations as an indicator of the structure oftext.
Computational Linguistics, 17(1):21?48.Myers, Greg.
1992.
In this paper we report.
.
.
?Speech acts and scientific facts.Journal of Pragmatics, 17(4):295?313.Nanba, Hidetsugu and Manabu Okumura.1999.
Towards multi-paper summarizationusing reference information.
InProceedings of IJCAI-99, pages 926?931.Paice, Chris D. 1990.
Constructing literatureabstracts by computer: Techniques andprospects.
Information Processing andManagement, 26(1):171?186.Paice, Chris D. and A. Paul Jones.
1993.
Theidentification of important concepts inhighly structured technical papers.
InProceedings of the 16th Annual InternationalConference on Research and Development inInformation Retrieval (SIGIR-93),pages 69?78.Pollock, Joseph J. and Antonio Zamora.1975.
Automatic abstracting research at444Computational Linguistics Volume 28, Number 4the chemical abstracts service.
Journal ofChemical Information and Computer Sciences,15(4):226?232.Radev, Dragomir R. and KathleenR.
McKeown.
1998.
Generating naturallanguage summaries from multipleon-line sources.
Computational Linguistics,24(3):469?500.Rath, G. J., A. Resnick, and T. R. Savage.1961.
The formation of abstracts by theselection of sentences.
AmericanDocumentation, 12(2):139?143.Resnik, Philip and Mona Diab.
2000.Measuring verb similarity.
InTwenty-Second Annual Meeting of theCognitive Science Society (COGSCI2000).Riley, Kathryn.
1991.
Passive voice andrhetorical role in scientific writing.
Journalof Technical Writing and Communication,21(3):239?257.Rowley, Jennifer.
1982.
Abstracting andIndexing.
Bingley, London.Saggion, Horacio and Guy Lapalme.
2000.Selective analysis for automaticabstracting: Evaluating indicativeness andacceptability.
In Proceedings ofContent-Based Multimedia Information Access(RIAO), pages 747?764.Salton, Gerard and Michael J. McGill.
1983.Introduction to Modern Information Retrieval.McGraw-Hill, Tokyo.Samuel, Ken, Sandra Carberry, andK.
Vijay-Shanker.
1999.
Automaticallyselecting useful phrases for dialogue acttagging.
In Proceedings of the PacificAssociation for Computational Linguistics(PACLING-99).Saracevic, Tefko.
1975.
Relevance: A reviewof and a framework for the thinking onthe notion in information science.
Journalof the American Society for InformationScience, 26(6):321?343.Siegel, Sidney and N. John Castellan Jr.1988.
Nonparametric Statistics for theBehavioral Sciences.
McGraw-Hill, Berkeley,CA, second edition.Sparck Jones, Karen.
1990.
What sort ofthing is an AI experiment?
InD.
Partridge and Yorick Wilks, editors,The Foundations of Artificial Intelligence: ASourceBook.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, pages 274?281.Sparck Jones, Karen.
1999.
Automaticsummarising: Factors and directions.
InI.
Mani and M. T. Maybury, editors,Advances in Automatic Text Summarization.MIT Press, Cambridge, pages 1?12.Swales, John, 1990.
Research articles inEnglish.
In Genre Analysis: English inAcademic and Research Settings.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, chapter 7,pages 110?176.Teufel, Simone, 1999.
Argumentative Zoning:Information Extraction from Scientific Text.Ph.D.
thesis, School of Cognitive Science,University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh.Teufel, Simone.
2001.
Task-based evaluationof summary quality: Describingrelationships between scientific papers.
InProceedings of NAACL-01 Workshop?Automatic Text Summarization.
?Teufel, Simone, Jean Carletta, and MarcMoens.
1999.
An annotation scheme fordiscourse-level argumentation in researcharticles.
In Proceedings of the Eighth Meetingof the European Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (EACL-99),pages 110?117.Teufel, Simone and Marc Moens.
1997.Sentence extraction as a classificationtask.
In Proceedings of the ACL/EACL-97Workshop on Intelligent Scalable TextSummarization, pages 58?65.Teufel, Simone and Marc Moens.
2000.What?s yours and what?s mine:Determining intellectual attribution inscientific text.
In Proceedings of the JointSIGDAT Conference on Empirical Methods inNatural Language Processing and Very LargeCorpora.Thompson, Geoff and Ye Yiyun.
1991.Evaluation in the reporting verbs used inacademic papers.
Applied Linguistics,12(4):365?382.Tombros, Anastasios, and Mark Sanderson.1998.
Advantages of query biasedsummaries.
In Proceedings of the 21stAnnual International Conference on Researchand Development in Information Retrieval(SIGIR-98).
Association of ComputingMachinery.Trawinski, Bogdan.
1989.
A methodologyfor writing problem-structured abstracts.Information Processing and Management,25(6):693?702.van Dijk, Teun A.
1980.
Macrostructures: AnInterdisciplinary Study of Global Structures inDiscourse, Interaction and Cognition.Lawrence Erlbaum, Hillsdale, NJ.van Rijsbergen, Cornelis Joost.
1979.Information Retrieval.
Butterworth,London, second edition.Wiebe Janyce.
1994.
Tracking point of viewin narrative.
Computational Linguistics,20(2):223?287.445Teufel and Moens Summarizing Scientific ArticlesYang, Yiming and Xin Liu.
1999.
Are-examination of text categorizationmethods.
In Proceedings of the 22nd AnnualInternational Conference on Research andDevelopment in Information Retrieval(SIGIR-99), pages 42?49.Zappen, James P. 1983.
A rhetoric forresearch in sciences and technologies.
InPaul V. Anderson, R. John Brockman, andCarolyn R. Miller, editors, New Essays inTechnical and Scientific CommunicationResearch Theory Practice.
Baywood,Farmingdale, NY, pages 123?138.Zechner, Klaus.
1995.
Automatic textabstracting by selecting relevant passages.Master?s thesis, Centre for CognitiveScience, University of Edinburgh,Edinburgh.Ziman, John M. 1969.
Information,communication, knowledge.
Nature,224:318?324.
