c?
2003 Association for Computational LinguisticsDocument StructureRichard Power?
Donia Scott?University of Brighton University of BrightonNadjet Bouayad-Agha?University Pompeu FabraWe argue the case for abstract document structure as a separate descriptive level in the anal-ysis and generation of written texts.
The purpose of this representation is to mediate between themessage of a text (i.e., its discourse structure) and its physical presentation (i.e., its organizationinto graphical constituents like sections, paragraphs, sentences, bulleted lists, figures, and foot-notes).
Abstract document structure can be seen as an extension of Nunberg?s ?text-grammar?
;it is also closely related to ?logical?
markup in languages like HTML and LaTEX.
We show thatby using this intermediate representation, several subtasks in language generation and languageunderstanding can be defined more cleanly.1.
IntroductionWhen language is written, it appears as a collection of words set out on one or more(actual or virtual) pages.
In fact, much of what we tend to call ?text?
has a stronggraphical component (Schriver 1997; Scott and Power 2001).
Not only are the wordsoften accompanied by conventional graphics such as pictures or diagrams, but theythemselves form graphical elements such as titles, headings, chapters, sections, cap-tions, paragraphs, and bulleted lists.The overlay of graphics on text is in many ways equivalent to the overlay ofprosody on speech.
Just as all speech has prosody (even if it is a monotone), so too doall texts have layout (even if it is simple wrapped format, in a single face and font, andmakes rudimentary use of white space).
And just as prosody undoubtedly contributesto the meaning of utterances, so too does a text?s graphical presentation contribute to itsmeaning.
However, although there is a long tradition and rich linguistic framework fordescribing and representing speech prosody (e.g., Halliday 1967; Chomsky and Halle1968; Crystal 1969; Bolinger 1972; Pierrehumbert 1980; ?t Hart, Collier, and Cohen 1990;Ladd 1996), the same is not true for text layout.
Perhaps not surprisingly, therefore, fewnatural language understanding (NLU) systems use graphical presentational featuresto aid interpretation, and few natural language generation (NLG) systems attempt torender the output texts in a principled way.Of course, since all texts have a graphical dimension, all NLG systems will, bydefinition, produce laid-out texts.
In all but a few recent cases (the ICONOCLAST sys-tem (Power 2000; Bouayad-Agha, Power, and Scott 2000; Bouayad-Agha, Scott, andPower 2001; Bouayad-Agha 2001) and the DArtbio system (Bateman et al 2001)), thisis achieved by mapping directly from the underlying discourse structure (Arens and?
Information Technology Research Institute, University of Brighton, Lewes Road, Brighton BN2 4GJ,UK.
Email: {firstname.lastname}@itri.bton.ac.uk.?
Departament de Tecnologia, University Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain.
Email: Nadjet.Bouayad@tecm.upf.es.212Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2Hovy 1990; DiMarco et al 1995; Paris et al 1995; Power and Cavallotto 1996; Lavoieand Rambow 1997; Mittal et al 1998).
In other cases, the text is mapped onto pre-determined genre-specific layout patterns?for example, for verbalizing mathematicalproofs (Huang and Fiedler 1997) or producing letters for customers (Coch 1996).
If wetake, as most do, the level of discourse structure as representative of the underlyingmessage of a text, such systems are subject to a fundamental limitation.
Simply put, foreach message there will be but one possible form of presentation.As an illustration let us briefly consider the well-known consensus architecturefor NLG systems proposed by Reiter (1994).
This architecture, based on a surveyof NLG systems from the 1980s and early 1990s, takes the form of a ?pipeline?
inwhich five modules are applied in sequence: content determination, sentence planning,surface generation, morphology, and formatting.
Sentence planning maps ?conceptualstructures into linguistic ones .
.
.
grouping information into clauses and sentences?
(Reiter 1994, page 164), but formatting (specified, for example, by LaTEX markup) occursonly in the final formatting stage.
In consequence, the organization of material intoparagraphs, bulleted lists, etc., is considered only after the wording has been fixed.Graphical presentation, however, clearly interacts with wording.
For example, thesection of a message that, at the level of discourse, is composed of a list relation,will be expressed differently depending on whether, at the presentational level, it ismapped onto a vertical or horizontal list.
Consider a simple example like the following,taken from a patient information leaflet (PIL):(1) Are you taking any of the following:?
Anticoagulants??
Lithium??
Methotrexate??
Any other medicines which your doctor does not know about?
(Voltarol leaflet, Geigy; from APBI 1997)If the very same content were presented instead as a horizontal list, we would expectto get something like:(2) Are you taking anticoagulants, lithium, methotrexate, or any other medicines whichyour doctor does not know about?Now all the information is packed into one sentence, with some missing and addi-tional words, wildly different punctuation, and less generous use of upper-case letters.1Mapping directly from discourse structure to graphical presentation during generationtherefore limits not only the choice of possible layout, but also the choice of possiblewording.There have been some recent attempts to develop NLG systems that generate doc-uments rather than just texts.
Instead of producing text plans, they produce documentplans.
Typically these are the text plans of old (i.e., structures of ordered content ele-ments represented in terms of rhetorical structure theory (Mann and Thompson 1986,1987)), but extended to include pictures or diagrams as content elements, and withadditional annotations for metalevel elements such as paragraph or sentence bound-aries.
Figure 1 shows the type of document plan proposed by Reiter and Dale (2000).1 Indeed, it appears to be the case that the more graphical the presentation is, the greater the differencein wording is likely to be over the unmarked case of plain text (Bouayad-Agha, Scott, and Power 2000).213Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structurestill very depleted.
Heavy rain fell on the 27th and 28th.The month was slightly warmer than average with almost exactly the average rainfall, but rainfall for the year isWeather Summary for July 1996DocumentPlanRelation = SequenceDocument PlanRelation = NarrativeSequenceRainEventMsg[28th]DocumentPlanRelation = ContrastDPDocumentTitle = "Weather Summary for July 1996"Relation = SequenceRainEventMsg[27th]MonthlyTemperatureMsgMonthlyRainfallMsg TotalRainSoFarMsgNucleus SatelliteFigure 1A document plan and associated text (Reiter and Dale 2000).Although this approach allows for a more reasoned presentational format, by conflat-ing discourse and presentational features into one structure, the possible generatedexpressions of any given message are once again strongly limited relative to the set ofall possible valid expressions.We wish to argue the case for a separate descriptive level in the analysis and gen-eration of written texts, which we will call document structure.
Informally, documentstructure describes the organization of a document into graphical constituents likesections, paragraphs, sentences, bulleted lists, and figures; it also covers some featureswithin sentences, including quotation and emphasis.
Although document structureapplies equally to NLU and NLG, we will focus our attention here on its role in thegeneration of appropriate presentations (both wording and layout) of texts.
As we willtry to show, texts (unless they are fairly simple) cannot be produced to a satisfactorystandard unless document structure is specified earlier in the process than suggestedin previous works (e.g., Reiter 1994; Reiter and Dale 2000), so that interactions withmeaning and wording are taken into account.The plan of the article is as follows.
In section 2 we explain more fully what wemean by document structure, acknowledging its origins in Nunberg?s (1990) work andtext markup languages such as LaTEX and HTML.
Section 3 discusses the relationshipof document structure to rhetorical organization and syntax.
Section 4 presents theformal theory of document structure, and Section 5 shows how it is applied in theICONOCLAST system.
Finally, Section 6 summarizes the argument and discusses someother approaches to the representation and generation of layout.214Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 22.
Defining Document Structure2.1 Nunberg?s Text GrammarOur point of departure has been the theory of text structure proposed by Nunberg(1990) in The Linguistics of Punctuation.
This book introduces two crucial clarifications.First, it distinguishes text structure,2 which is realized by punctuation and layout, fromsyntactic structure.
Second, it distinguishes abstract features of text structure from theconcrete (or graphical) features through which they are expressed.The distinction between text structure and syntax can best be explained by consid-ering two interpretations of the word sentence.
In linguistics, sentence is used mainly asa syntactic category, defined by phrase structure rules such as S ?
NP+VP.
However,a sentence can also be viewed orthographically as a portion of text starting with acapital letter and ending in a period; to distinguish this from the syntactic category,Nunberg calls it a text-sentence.
Sometimes the two categories of sentence coincide,but often they do not.
Thus in the following passage:(3) He entered the office.
Disaster.
The safe was open and the money had gone.the first text-sentence is also a syntactic sentence, but the second is merely a noun,and the third comprises two syntactic sentences (or three, if we count the whole aswell as its parts).
Nunberg argues that if we have two kinds of category, then we needtwo kinds of grammar: he calls them the lexical grammar (we prefer syntactic gram-mar) and the text-grammar.
In addition to text-sentence, the text-categories includetext-clause, paragraph, and section, and the text-grammar allows us to formulate con-stituent structure rules such asSt ?
Ct+meaning that a text-sentence comprises one or more text-clauses.In introducing the concepts text-sentence, text-clause, etc., it is convenient to explainthem in terms of their realization in punctuation and layout: thus a text-sentencestarts with a capital letter and ends in a period; a text-clause ends in a semicolon;a paragraph begins on a new line with a tab.
However, this is not strictly correct.In Nunberg?s theory, these concepts represent abstract structural properties of the textthat may be realized differently according to context or convention.
In the case ofparagraph this distinction is obvious, since we are all familiar with several devices forexpressing paragraph boundaries: instead of a new line with a tab, for example, aneditor might prefer two new lines (or some other vertical space) with no tab.
However,the abstract/concrete distinction also applies to the other text-categories.
For example,the passage:(4) The safe was open; the money had gone.contains two text-clauses, but the second has no semicolon because its ending coincideswith the closure of a larger unit, a text-sentence, which is marked by a period.
Similarly,the stop at the end of a text-sentence is often dropped when the sentence is an item2 This should not be confused with the use of this term within the NLG literature to refer to thediscourse structure of a text.215Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structurein a vertical list, for instance, in a sequence of instructions:(5) To save the file:1.
Open the Save dialogue-box2.
Enter the filename3.
Click on the Save buttonThus text structure is realized by punctuation (and layout), but the two are not equiv-alent.2.2 Markup LanguagesNunberg?s notion of text structure, or our wider notion of document structure, has anobvious connection to the markup languages (e.g., LaTEX, SGML) now in common useas a method for specifying layout in an ASCII source file.
The common philosophyof these languages is that markup should abstract from the visual appearance of thedocument, using concepts like paragraph that might be realized graphically in differentways, depending on a separate style definition.This approach has several advantages, of which the most obvious is flexibility.An exact specification of the desired spatial layout can yield only one printed formof the document; by employing abstract categories, definitions using LaTEX or SGMLcan produce a range of printed forms, depending on which style file is used.
Lessobviously, the markup language can be tailored to the genre of the document, so that,for example, a poem may have a constituent marked stanza, whereas a letter may haveone marked address.In practice, this separation of abstract structure from visual realization is not car-ried through consistently; for reasons of convenience, authors sometimes prefer tohave direct control over appearance.
Thus LaTEX, for example, allows both the abstracttag em, meaning emphasis, and the visual tag it, meaning italic face.
Vertical separationis usually achieved through abstract tags like section and itemize but may also beimposed directly using vspace.
All these devices have counterparts in HTML: thusa typical reference guide to HTML (Ford and Dixon 1996) explicitly distinguishes?logical?
tags such as <EM> from ?visual?
tags such as <I>.More subtly, the markup languages in common use do not attempt to cover struc-tural units that are realized through punctuation rather than layout.
Paragraphs maybe marked (albeit implicitly in LaTEX), but lower units such as text-sentence and text-clause are not.
No doubt there are good practical reasons for this approach, but someopportunities for stylistic variation are thereby lost.
Consider, for example, the simplecase of reported speech in example (6a).
If this were marked up as a sentence contain-ing a quotation, it could be punctuated differently, with the period outside the closingquotation mark (6b), perhaps, or using double quote (6c), or even using a dash withno quotation marks at all (6d) (as in James Joyce?s Ulysses):(6)(a) She said ?Come up and see me sometime.?
(b) She said ?Come up and see me sometime?.
(c) She said ?Come up and see me sometime.?
(d) She said?Come up and see me sometime.Thus although markup languages provide some guidance toward a formal treat-ment of document structure, they often deviate, for practical reasons, from the philo-sophical ideal of separating abstract structure from visual presentation.
On the one216Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2hand, some tags (e.g., italic face) are clearly visual and should not be included inabstract document structure at all.
On the other hand, some abstract categories (e.g.,text-sentence, quoted speech) are omitted from the tag set and thus cannot be realizedin a range of different graphical styles.Despite these compromises, markup languages are based on a key insight that ishighly relevant to natural language analysis and generation: layout can be matched towording through the mediation of abstract document structure.
Consider the following threeversions of a passage adapted from a patient information leaflet:(7)(a) Elixir is a white cream.It is used in the treatment of cold sores.It contains aliprosan.
This is effective against a range of viral skin disorders.It should be used only on your lips and face.
(b) Elixir is a white cream.It is used in the treatment of cold sores.It contains aliprosan.
This is effective against a range of viral skin disorders.It should be used only on your lips and face.
(c) Elixir is a white cream.
It is used in the treatment of cold sores.
It contains aliprosan.This is effective against a range of viral skin disorders.
N.B.
Elixir should be used onlyon your lips and face.Suppose that example (7a) has been produced by author A, a novice in documentdesign, and passed to a more experienced designer B for revision.
The passage looksodd because it has four very short paragraphs, but short paragraphs are commonin this genre, and B decides that the ugly appearance can be corrected simply byrealizing paragraphs through a vertical space with no tab.
In addition, B notices thatboldface has been used for two different purposes: highlighting the product nameand emphasizing only; this ambiguity is removed by changing emphatic boldface tosmall caps.
Both these revisions, shown in version (7b), concern realization rather thanabstract structure, and consequently they do not affect the validity of the wording.For final checking the passage is then passed to a senior expert C, whose prefer-ences are more traditional: in particular, C dislikes short paragraphs and variationsin typeface.
Glaring at the waste of space in version (7b), C takes out the paragraphboundaries and removes the emphasis on only.
These are not merely changes in graph-ical realization: they also affect the abstract document structure.
In general, such changesendanger the validity of the wording.
Reading through the new version, C notices that thepronoun it in the final sentence now seems to refer to aliprosan, not Elixir, so it hasto be replaced by the product name.
To reinstate the emphasis in this sentence, C alsoinserts the expression N.B.
These changes lead to version (7c).In summary, abstract document structure interacts with wording, whereas visualrealization does not.
This principle explains why abstract markup is useful; it alsoshows where the boundary should be drawn.
By applying this principle, we mightdiscover that a category previously treated as visual should be reclassified as abstract.If, for example, the change in the realization of paragraph boundaries in exampleslike version (7b) required a rewording of the text, we would have to extend our setof abstract document categories so that there were two types of paragraph instead ofone.217Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structure3.
Document Structure and Rhetorical Structure3.1 Form and MeaningLogically there are four possible relationships between document structure (DS) andrhetorical structure (RS): either DS is part of RS, or RS is part of DS, or they partiallyoverlap, or they are distinct from one another.
Our view is that they should be distinct,just as syntax is distinct from semantics.
Document structure, like syntax, describesthe form of a (mainly) linguistic product.
Rhetorical structure, like semantics, describesmeaning, interpreting meaning in a broad sense that includes pragmatic features.As an example, suppose that approve(fda, elixir) is a semantic formula meaning thatthe Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approves the medicine Elixir.
This semanticformula can be realized (in English) through a range of syntactic forms, including[S [NP [DET the][N FDA]][VP [V approves][NP Elixir]]]which would yield ?the FDA approves Elixir?
; alternative syntactic forms could beobtained by replacing descriptions with pronouns, or by putting the whole sentenceinto the passive (e.g., ?it is approved by the FDA?).
Now, suppose that we add asecond semantic formula contain(elixir, gestodene), and suppose that the author knowsthat gestodene is a controversial ingredient.
On this basis, a rhetorical relation ofconcession might be applied to the two formulas:concession(contain(elixir, gestodone), approve(fda, elixir))where the second argument of concession is the central one and is supported by thefirst argument.3 To realize this more complex message, we may need a linguistic formthat cannot be described only by a syntactic phrase marker.
In other words, we needto consider document structure as well as syntax.
Ignoring possibilities for variationsin the wording of the constituent propositions and assuming that concession may bemarked with the discourse connectives although and however, we can choose amongthe following realizations of the whole message:(8)(a) Although Elixir contains gestodene, it is approved by the FDA.
(b) The FDA approves Elixir although it contains gestodene.
(c) Elixir contains gestodene; however, it is approved by the FDA.
(d) Elixir contains gestodene.
However, it is approved by the FDA.
(e) Elixir contains gestodene.However, it is approved by the FDA.In versions (8a) and (8b), the rhetorical relationship is realized within a singlesyntactic sentence, although before adding punctuation we need to know that thissyntactic sentence is also a text-sentence.
In versions (8c)?
(8e), the arguments of theconcession relation are expressed in separate syntactic sentences, so that the rela-tionship is realized through document structure as well as syntax.
In each case, the3 These are termed nucleus and satellite in RST (Mann and Thompson 1987).218Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2units realizing the arguments are coordinated in document structure, satellite precedesnucleus, and the discourse connective however is placed within the nucleus.Our claim, then, is that document structure combines with syntax in the real-ization of the meaning of a document, and that rhetorical structure should be re-garded as part of meaning, not part of document structure.
However, as we will nowshow, this principle of clear separation of meaning and form has not always beenobserved.3.2 Rhetorical Structure TheoryRhetorical structure theory (Mann and Thompson 1986, 1987) was developed as amethod of analyzing the rhetorical organization of texts.
Formally, the theory is re-markably simple.
It proposes that a text can be analyzed, by rhetorical function, intoa set of nested spans, each span being represented by a node on an ordered tree.
Eachnonterminal node on this tree is labeled with a single term describing the relationshipthat holds among its constituents.
These constituents may have equal importance, inwhich case the relation is said to be multinuclear, or one may be rhetorically subor-dinated to the other, in which case they are said to fulfill the roles of satellite andnucleus.
Although this scheme is obviously intended as a first approximation, it hasbeen widely adopted, not only by literary analysts, but also by computational linguists,especially in the NLG community.One aspect of RST, perhaps more presentational than substantial, has led, in ourview, to confusion: both in the text of their article and the accompanying diagrams,Mann and Thompson seem to assert that rhetorical relations hold between spans oftext, rather than between the meanings of these texts.
In other words, they treat rhetor-ical structure as part of document structure.
Mann and Thompson assert this explicitly(1987, page 4):Relations are defined to hold between two non-overlapping text spans,here called the nucleus and the satellite, denoted by N and S.whereA text span is an uninterrupted linear sequence of text.However, it is unclear whether their claim is intentional or simply the result of aninformal style of presentation.Would it make any sense to treat rhetorical relations as holding literally betweentext spans?
For clearly pragmatic relations, such as restatement, this seems a possibleposition.
A text span, after all, is an instrument of the writer, so it makes sense to makea statement about the function that the instrument is supposed to serve.
For clearlysemantic relations, such as nonvolitional-cause, the position is harder to maintain.In a text like ?Mary was sad because she lost her doll?, the causal relation plainly holdsbetween two events, not between two spans of text.Leaving aside intuitive plausibility, the crucial question, we think, is whether theargument in a document can be formalized without reference to the particular textspans through which it is realized.
Could the same argument be realized by twoEnglish texts with a different structure, or by an English text and a French text?
Couldsomeone forget a text but remember its argument?
If so, it must be possible to treatrelations like concession and nonvolitional-cause as holding between ideas ratherthan units of text.
Rather than creating two kinds of rhetorical relation, it seems moreparsimonious to treat the relation between ideas as primary, so that the argument of219Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructureconcessionNUCLEUSSATELLITEhowever, it is approved by the FDA.Elixir contains gestodene;concessionThe FDA approves Elixir although it contains gestodene.NUCLEUS SATELLITE(8c)(8b)Figure 2RST analysis.a document can be planned before the writer (or NLG system) has considered issuesof wording or linear order.4To illustrate this point, let us go back to example (8).
Suppose that we want toshow that versions (8b) and (8c) express the same argument.
(8b) The FDA approves Elixir although it contains gestodene.
(8c) Elixir contains gestodene; however, it is approved by the FDA.Figure 2 shows RST annotations for these texts, on the assumption that rhetoricalrelations hold between text spans; note, incidentally, that since related spans mustbe consecutive, the discourse connectives although and however have to be includedsomewhat arbitrarily in one span or the other.
These annotations fail to bring out thatthe two texts express the same argument, since at a textual level the spans in (8b) and(8c) are simply different, both in wording and position.In Figure 3, instead, different document structures are specified for versions (8b)and (8c) and linked to a common rhetorical structure; the dotted arrows express therelation realizes, so that, for example, each text-sentence realizes the whole rhetori-cal structure governed by the concession relation.
Note that rhetorical structures arealways unordered, whereas document structures are ordered trees.
Thus the two un-ordered propositions in the rhetorical structure of Figure 3 are realized in differentorders in the two document structures.This distinction between rhetorical structure and document structure accounts forsome of the difficulties encountered when RST is applied as an analytic tool.
Thecore of the problem is that when faced with a text to analyze, the analyst applies theprinciples of RST analysis to the text itself rather than to the message underlying thetext.
What the analyst really needs to do is, in some way, to ?get behind the text?to its constituent propositions and the rhetorical relations that hold between them(Scott and Paris 1995).
But instead, by applying relations to text-spans, he or she isheavily constrained by the evident document structure of the text, and the result is arhetorical structure that is isomorphic to the document structure.
However, as we have4 This proposal was first made by Scott and Souza (1990).220Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2TEXT?SENTENCETEXT?PHRASE TEXT?PHRASETEXT?PHRASEalthoughElixir is approved by the FDAit contains gestodeneTEXT?PHRASETEXT?SENTENCETEXT?CLAUSE TEXT?CLAUSEElixir contains gestodeneTEXT?PHRASE TEXT?PHRASEhowever it is approved by the FDAapprove(fda, elixir) contain(elixir, gestodene)SATELLITEconcessionNUCLEUSRHETORICAL STRUCTURE DOCUMENT STRUCTURE (8c)DOCUMENT STRUCTURE (8b)Figure 3Document structure realizes rhetorical structure.seen from the above example, the underlying rhetorical structure is not necessarilyisomorphic to the document structure;5 this means that the analysis obtained in thisway is not necessarily an accurate representation of the actual discourse structureof the text.
Consider, for example, the following excerpt from a patient informationleaflet:(9) IF you find your condition gets worse during treatmentA you may be allergic to thecreamD or have a skin infectionE.STOP USING THE CREAMB AND TELL YOUR DOCTOR AS SOON AS POSSIBLEC(Betnovate leaflet, Glaxo; from APBI 1997)Careful reading of the text, combined with world knowledge, suggests that thefollowing logical condition holds between the propositional content of A and the pairB and C:IF <condition of patient worsens during treatment>THEN <patient must stop taking cream>AND <patient must tell patient?s doctor>ENDIFIn other words, the rhetorical relation of condition holds between A as satellite andthe complex of B and C (joined by a list relation) as nucleus.
We learn additionallythat the reason why the patient must carry out the imperative actions of B and C isthat he or she may be either allergic to the cream (D) or have a skin infection (E).
Inother words, there is a causal relation between the complex of B and C (the effect) andcomplex of D and E (the cause).
Representing all this in RST would yield the structurein Figure 4.Most people would probably agree that what is depicted in the RST structureshown in Figure 4 captures the intended meaning of the text in the example, and thatthe text itself is of reasonable quality.
However, a traditional RST analysis (i.e., of thetext itself, as opposed to its underlying meaning) would not be able to produce thestructure shown here.
To explicate, let us go through what the typical RST analystwould do with this text.The analyst would probably start by segmenting the text into elementary ?textspans?
(i.e., clauses); this would lead to the same assignment of A?E given above.
Thenext step would focus on the first sentence: the discourse marker if clearly suggeststhe condition relation; similarly, the marker or suggests the alternative relation.So far so good.
However, the next step would be to find a relation that holds among5 This is discussed in more detail in Bouayad-Agha, Power, and Scott (2000) and Bouayad-Agha (2001)and in section 5.3.221Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructurePARAGRAPHTEXT?SENTENCETEXT?PHRASETEXT?PHRASE TEXT?PHRASE TEXT?PHRASETEXT?PHRASETEXT?SENTENCED EBCAD EClist alternativecauseconditionABSNN SRHETORICAL STRUCTURE DOCUMENT STRUCTUREFigure 4Document structure is not always isomorphic with rhetorical structure.SNlistNN N NNC D EABalternativeconditionSresultFigure 5Analysis when RST is applied directly to text.the text spans in the sentence; if this cannot be done, then according to the tenets ofRST, the text is not coherent.
Following this rule, the analyst is likely to make D and Ethe components of the identified (multinuclear) alternative relation.
Next he wouldattempt to assign the satellite and nucleus of the identified condition relation; thechoice would be between A and the complex of D and E. Since the marker if mustattach to the satellite of condition, the answer seems clear:condition(alternative(D,E),A)(corresponding to the RST structure shown in Figure 5).
But it is also clearly wrong,since we know from our semantic analysis that what really holds is that shown inFigure 4:condition(list(B,C),A)Indeed, even the layout of the text reinforces, through the use of capital letters, thestrong relationship between A and the pair B and C.In principle, an RST structure that is derived from the analysis of a given textshould, when used as the input to an NLG system, produce the very same text andother semantically equivalent versions of it.
By separating rhetorical structure from doc-ument structure, we can now provide a coherent framework for achieving this result.222Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2For instance, we can now produce not only the original text of example (9) (shownhere with neutral layout):(9b) If you find your condition gets worse during treatment, you may beallergic to the cream or have a skin infection.
Stop using the cream andtell your doctor as soon as possible.but also the following (in some contexts perhaps better) variant(9c) If you find your condition gets worse during treatment, stop using thecream and tell your doctor as soon as possible; you may be allergic tothe cream or have a skin infection.Of course, NLG systems that ignore the level of document structure would still be ableto produce the text in version (9b) from the RST structure in Figure 5, but they wouldnot be able to produce version (9c).
Moreover, they could also end up producing thefollowing incorrect text:6(9c) # Stop using the cream and tell your doctor as soon as possible becauseyou may be allergic to the cream or have a skin infection if yourcondition gets worse during treatment.A number of other researchers have identified cases in which ?orthodox?
RSTanalysis of a text is problematic (e.g., Moore and Pollack 1992; Moser and Moore 1996;Knott et al 2001).
For example, Knott et al (2001) report on texts from a corpus ofmuseum labels that violate the RST principle of continuous constituency (i.e., adjacentunits must be linked by a relation) but are nonetheless coherent.
These are cases inwhich the satellite of a relation is not adjacent to its own nucleus in the text.
Inall the texts that Knott et al discuss, the ?dislocated?
relation is elaboration, andthey attribute the source of the problem to the relation itself: elaboration is not, theyclaim, a proper relation; it is a very weak relation that commands a different treatmentfrom the other stronger ones.Although there may well be a strong case to be made for the ?demotion?
ofelaboration and for a special treatment of it in NLG systems, the phenomenonof dislocated satellites that Knott et al (2001) describe is not, in fact, confined toelaboration.
Indeed, it corresponds precisely to the problem we have just seen withexample (9), which involves not elaboration, but condition.
We have also reportedelsewhere other similar examples of nonisomorphic rhetorical and document structures(Bouayad-Agha, Power, and Scott 2000).
In all cases that we have seen, the principles ofRST (e.g., compositionality, nuclearity, continuous constituency) appear to be violatedonly because they are being applied (in the orthodox manner) to the surface text(i.e., at the level of document structure) rather than more properly to the underlyingpropositional structure of the text (i.e., at the level of rhetorical structure).But why would one want to produce a text whose document structure is not iso-morphic with its rhetorical structure?
One rather practical reason is that as a rhetoricalstructure becomes more complex, it becomes increasingly difficult for the writer to pro-duce a text that satisfies both the demands of coherence (as defined by theories such6 This text would result from systems that treat the leaves of a rhetorical or text plan as ordered.223Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structureas RST) and those of syntax.
This happens quite frequently, for example, with condi-tionals: syntax dictates that expressions using the subordinating discourse marker ifmust have the antecedent and consequent in the same sentence.
For example:(10) If you eat too many sweets, you will become ill.but not(11) # If you eat too many sweets.
You will become ill.As the consequent or its antecedent becomes more complex, the chances of satis-fying the syntactic constraints are reduced.
Here is a typical example from a PIL:(12) If you get any of the following:Stomach pain, indigestion, heartburn or feeling sick for the first time.Any sign of bleeding in the stomach or intestine, for example, passing blackstools.. .
.An unexpected change in the amount of urine produced and/or itsappearance.STOP taking the tablets and tell your doctor.
(Voltarol leaflet, Geigy; from APBI 1997)Here the conditional is expressed within one big sentence that itself contains severalother sentences?indeed, paragraphs?each describing a set of symptoms organizedaround areas of the body.
In writing this text, the author has clearly chosen to remainfaithful to the rhetorical structure at the expense of syntax.At other times, such as the example in Figure 6, taken from Knott et al (2001), itis the rhetorical structure that loses out.
In this case, the author has decided that thecontent of the satellite associated with (9) warrants its own paragraph (perhaps forreasons to do with its size).4.
Formal Theory of Document StructureWe will describe here the formal theory of document structure that we have developedas part of the ICONOCLAST system (Power 2000; Bouayad-Agha, Power, and Scott2000; Bouayad-Agha 2000; Bouayad-Agha, Scott, and Power 2001), which generatesmultiple versions of the same message in different styles (i.e., with different wordingand layout).
In describing the theory, we will concentrate on units above the levelof text-sentence; our treatment of the lower levels varies only slightly from that inNunberg?s theory, which is described in great detail in Nunberg (1990).4.1 Basic Hierarchy of Document UnitsInformally it seems clear that units of document structure are ranked: sentences aregrouped into paragraphs, paragraphs into sections, sections into chapters, and so forth.The hierarchy of categories differs from one document type to another, but there isalways some hierarchy;7 there might for instance be subsubsections and subsections7 Exceptionally, some elements?in particular, footnotes and pictures?will be ?floating.
?224Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 22 3 .
.
.. .
.. .
.< >.
.
.< >(1) In the women?s quarters the business of running the household took place.
(2) Much of the furniture was made up of chests (3) arranged vertically in matchingpairs.
... (4) Female guests were entertained in these rooms, (5) which often hadbeautifully carved wooden toilet boxes (6) with fold?away mirrors and sewingboxes, (7) and folding screens, (8) painted with birds and flowers.
(9) Chests were used for storage of clothes.
...1N SDOCUMENT STRUCTURE4 8TEXTPARAGRAPHTEXT?SENTENCETEXT?SENTENCETEXT?SENTENCEPARAGRAPH1N SN N4 8TEXT?SENTENCE93RHETORICAL STRUCTURE2N SN S9Figure 6Another example of nonisomorphic rhetorical and document structures.between paragraphs and sections.
As a basis for discussion, let us assume a hierarchyof six levels, which we will number from 0 (assumed to be the lowest possible levelof document structure) to 5:80 text-phrase1 text-clause2 text-sentence3 paragraph4 section5 chapterThe fundamental organizing principle of document structure is that a unit of agiven level is composed of one or more units of the next level down.
This observationcould be expressed by a set of constituent structure rules, one for each level:chapter ?
section+section ?
paragraph+ (etc.
)Alternatively, we could generalize over this set of rules by introducing the symbol LNto denote a unit of level N (so that L0 means text-phrase, L1 means text-clause, etc.
).A single rule will now cover units of all levels:LN ?
LN?1+ (N > 0)8 We use text-sentence and text-clause in Nunberg?s sense, as units typically marked by a period and asemicolon.
However, unlike Nunberg, we use text-phrase for any constituent of a text-clause, whether itis marked by a comma or not.225Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structure(a)(b)SECTIONPARAGRAPH PARAGRAPHTEXT?SENTENCEPARAGRAPH PARAGRAPHSECTIONTEXT?SENTENCEPARAGRAPHFigure 7Ill-formed (a) and well-formed (b) document structures.Two consequences of this rule should be noted.
First, it disallows document struc-tures in which a unit contains a subunit of higher level?for instance, a text-sentencemay not contain a paragraph.
Second, it disallows document structures in whichcoordinated units have different levels.
A section, for example, may not be formedby coordinating two paragraphs and a text-sentence, as in Figure 7(a); the sentenceshould be the only constituent of a further paragraph unit, as in Figure 7(b), sothat when the abstract document structure is realized graphically, the sentence willbe formatted with a paragraph break as well as with a capital letter and aperiod.This deals with the basic organization of text into hierarchical document units;however, a full description should take account of many other patterns includingheadings, bulleted lists, footnotes, and figures.
We cannot deal with all these pat-terns here, so we focus on what is probably the most complex problem: the treat-ment of indented structures such as quotations, bulleted lists, and enumeratedlists.4.2 Indented Document UnitsAt first sight it might seem that indentation is a feature of graphical realizationrather than underlying structure: in other words, that it belongs to concrete ratherthan abstract document structure.
We have several reasons for rejecting this view.First, it is at least suggestive that both LaTEX and HTML include tags for indentedstructures:Pattern HTML tag LATEX tagQuotation <QUOTE> \begin{quote}Bulleted list <UL> \begin{itemize}Enumerated list <OL> \begin{enumerate}Description list <DL> \begin{description}Second, one can find examples of vertical lists that seem structurally equivalent to(say) a bulleted list but are presented without item markers and without the use ofhorizontal indentation.
Here is a case in point, taken from a PIL with formatting exactly226Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2preserved:(13) If you experience any of the following or any other unusual effects,tell your doctor:Poor appetite or a slight sick feelingMild abdominal pains or fullnessAlterations in your sense of tasteDiarrhoeaItching or rashPain in your muscles or jointsIf you notice yellowing of the skin or eyes, tell your doctorstraight away.
(Lamisil, Sandoz; from APBI 1997)Third, and most important of all, indented structures may introduce apparent viola-tions of the hierarchical ranking described in the last section: for instance, a sentencemay contain a paragraph, provided that the paragraph is indented.
We have already seenthis in the case of complex conditionals in example (12).
However, the phenomenonis much more widespread:(14) In rare cases the treatment can be prolonged for another week; however, this is riskysince?
The side-effects are likely to get worse.
Some patients have reported severeheadache and nausea.?
Permanent damage to the liver might result.
(15) The opening of Pride and PrejudiceIt is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of agood fortune, must be in want of a wife.
However little known the feelingsor views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood, thistruth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he isconsidered as the rightful property of some one or other of their daughters.is one of the most famous paragraphs in English literature.In these examples, too, note that the important issue is not graphical indentation, butwhat we might call logical indentation.
Thus in the case of the quotation, the logicalindentation of the quoted paragraph might be shown without graphical indentation(e.g., by using a distinctive font or character size):(16) The opening of ?Pride and Prejudice?It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of awife.
However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood,this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is considered as the rightful propertyof some one or other of their daughters.is one of the most famous paragraphs in English literature.How can the formation rules for document structure be extended so as to ac-commodate these patterns?
Our main proposal, implemented in the ICONOCLASTdocument planner, is that a document unit should be defined by (at least) two fea-tures: its level and its indentation.
The level is the usual ranking from L0 (text-phrase)227Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structure"however, this is risky since""In rare cases ... for another week;""Permanent damage ... might result.
""The side effects ... and nausea.
"TEXT?CLAUSE (0)TEXT?SENTENCE (0)TEXT?PHRASE (0) TEXT?PHRASE (0)PARAGRAPH (1) PARAGRAPH (1)TEXT?CLAUSE (0)Figure 8Indented document structure (example (14)).to L5 (chapter) or whatever hierarchy of units the author decides to employ; the inden-tation is a value in the range I0 .
.
.
IMax, where I0 means that the unit is not indented atall, I1 means it is indented one place, and so forth, with IMax representing the deepestembedding that the author is prepared to contemplate.
The passages in examples 14?16can then be described formally as unindented text-sentences (i.e., units with the cat-egory [L2, I0]), which have among their constituents indented paragraphs (units withthe category [L3, I1]).
Such structures can be permitted if we change the basic rule ofthe last section so that a unit of indentation IN always outranks a unit of indentationIN+1, no matter what their respective levels may be.
Instead of one general rule, wenow need two: the first for unindented constituents, the second for indented ones.Unindented constituents [LN, IM] ?
[LN?1, IM]+Indented constituents [LA, IM] ?
[LB, IM+1]+In the second rule, LA and LB are unrelated, so LB could represent a higher level thanLA (e.g., a paragraph inside a text-sentence).
For most document types one wouldpresumably prefer to set an upper limit on the level of an indented constituent (e.g.,an indented chapter seems ridiculous); this could be done for instance by adding theconstraint B < 4.Figures 8 and 9 give document structures for examples (14) and (15), respectively;the latter also describes example (16), which differs from (15) only in the graphicalrealization of the indented paragraph.
One feature of these analyses might at firstsight appear strange: they assign the minimal text level L0 to the node representingthe quotation or the bulleted list.
How, one might ask, can a paragraph, or indeed alist of paragraphs, be regarded as a text-phrase?
Should it not be a unit higher than theparagraph, perhaps some kind of section, or better, a new text category vertical list?On first tackling indented structures, we followed precisely this reasoning, in-troducing vertical list as a text category.
However, despite its initial plausibility, thisdecision has several irritating consequences.
First, the concept vertical list has no re-lationship to the text-level hierarchy.
Does it belong between text-sentence and para-graph, or perhaps between paragraph and section?
Any placement seems arbitrary.Second, since the vertical list in a document structure like that in Figure 8 is clearlycoordinated with a text-phrase, such an analysis would violate the rule that coordi-nated constituents have the same level.
Third, and perhaps most persuasively of all,228Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2"is one of ... English literature.
""The opening of Pride and Prejudice""It is a truth universally ...
daughters.
"TEXT?SENTENCE (0)TEXT?CLAUSE (0)TEXT?PHRASE (0) TEXT?PHRASE (0)PARAGRAPH (1)TEXT?PHRASE (0)Figure 9Indented document structure (examples (15) and (16)).it turns out that in their interactions with discourse connectives, vertical lists behavelike text-phrases, not like sentences, paragraphs, or higher units.
Thus the vertical list inFigure 8 is coordinated with the discourse connective since, which would not normallylink constituents higher than text-phrases (we will discuss this constraint more fullyin the next section).9All these difficulties are removed by denying appearances and assigning thevertical-list node a text-level of L0.
With this treatment, no new arbitrary level in thehierarchy of units is needed, the basic rule of document structure holds (i.e., coordi-nated constituents have the same level), and the interaction of the unit with discourseconnectives can be described using the same rules that hold for nonindented struc-tures.
Note also that the difference in indentation between the node and its daughtersis sufficient to identify it as a vertical list; any extra feature (such as a new value inthe text-level hierarchy) would be redundant.5.
Methods of Document Structuring5.1 Defining the TaskThe aim of document structuring within NLG is to create a document structure thatsatisfactorily realizes a particular rhetorical structure.
This can be achieved through avariety of architectures, as reflected in the RAGS framework.10 For example, systemsaimed at generating technical abstracts or captions for graphics would probably needto specify a ?one paragraph only?
limit quite early on in the process; in such cases,document structuring would start before any rhetorical or syntactic decisions weremade (e.g., the RAGS reimplementation of the Caption Generation System [Mellishet al 2000]).
Alternatively, systems that need to generate texts with rich layout mightprefer to interleave document structuring with rhetorical structuring (e.g., Cahill et al2001).9 Note that a vertical list can also be coordinated with units larger than text-phrases, such astext-sentences or paragraphs.
The formal rules allow this because a text-phrase can be the onlyconstituent of a text-clause, which can in turn be the only constituent of a text-sentence, and so forth.10 See The RAGS Reference Manual, http://www.itri.bton.ac.uk/projects/rags/RefMan/refman.ps.229Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructureFor simplicity of presentation, we will assume here an NLG architecture in which apreliminary module selects simple propositions from a knowledge base and organizesthem into some kind of argument; the document structurer distributes the variousparts of this argument among units like paragraphs and text-sentences; a syntacticrealizer takes over in order to determine the wording of the propositions; finally, aformatter decides how the abstract categories and features of document structure willbe realized graphically (e.g., whether paragraphs will be marked by a tab on a newline, or by a vertical space).
In the context of such an architecture, two issues are crucial:what input does the document structurer receive from the earlier planning module,and how does the output of the document structurer guide syntactic realization?In ICONOCLAST, our initial assumption, following Scott and Souza (1990), wasthat the rhetorical structure would take the form of a graph in which terminal nodesrepresent simple propositions and nonterminal nodes represent rhetorical relation-ships.
By organizing all propositions into a single hierarchy, such an input simplifiesthe task of the document structuring module; indeed, it could be argued that partof the work has been done already.
An alternative assumption is that the rhetoricalstructure takes the form of a set of assertions, each describing a rhetorical relationshipbetween two propositions (Marcu 1997).
With this flat representation, the documentstructurer must take more responsibility for grouping the propositions.
In this article,we will focus on the first of these methods (i.e, starting from a hierarchical rhetori-cal input).
The second method (starting from a flat rhetorical input) is described inBouayad-Agha (2001).Regarding the interface between document structuring and syntax, the difficultissue is where the boundary should be drawn.
Above the level of text-clause, it seemsclear that syntax plays little part; however, at the level in which text-phrases combineto form text-clauses, there is an interplay between the ?syntactic?
grammar and the?text?
grammar, as Nunberg (1990) has shown.
As an example, consider the simplerhetorical structure discussed earlier (example (8) and Figure 2):concession(contain(elixir, gestodene), approve(fda, elixir))As mentioned earlier, this rhetorical-semantic input could be realized through a text-sentence comprising two text-clauses:(8c) Elixir contains gestodene; however, it is approved by the FDA.In this case it seems clear where the boundary should lie: the document structurerdecides that approve(fda, elixir) should be expressed in the first text-clause, and thatcontain(elixir, gestodene) should be expressed in the second, along with the connec-tive however.
It might also impose constraints on the clauses that will realize thesepropositions, for instance, by requiring declarative clauses rather than imperative orinterrogative ones.
The rest is left to the syntactic realizer, which must decide how thetwo propositions should be worded, and how the second clause should be combinedwith the connective.
Several alternative versions might result, each having exactly thesame document structure:(8?)
Elixir contains gestodene; the FDA, however, approves it.(8?)
Elixir contains gestodene; however, the FDA approves it.230Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2(8??)
Gestodene is an ingredient of Elixir; Elixir is approved, however, by theFDA.Suppose, however, that the document structurer decides to realize the two propo-sitions within the same text-clause, as in the following version:(8??)
Elixir is approved by the FDA although it contains gestodene.Where now does the boundary lie?
Should the document structurer create a text-sentence containing a single text-clause, leave instructions that this text-clause shouldexpress the whole concession relationship, and then wash its hands of the affair, leavingeverything else to the syntactic realizer?
Or should it trespass into the domain ofsyntactic realization by constructing a syntactic clause of the form S1 although S2, withinstructions that a subclause realizing approve(fda, elixir) should be inserted in positionS1 and a second subclause realizing contain(elixir, gestodene) in position S2?In ICONOCLAST we have found it more convenient to adopt the latter policy.
Thelinguistic structure of a document is represented using a single tree in which nodesmay be labeled both with document structure features and with syntactic features.The document structurer?s task is to build the upper part of this tree, extending fromthe root all the way down to the nodes that express simple propositions.
In the upperreaches of the tree, nodes will be labeled with units like section and paragraph, andsyntactic features will be irrelevant; lower down, the document structure may have toassign some syntactic features when constructing compound clauses.
To simplify, weassume that conjunctive adverbs like however will always be placed at the beginningof a clause; this means that discourse connectives can be placed into the tree by thedocument structurer, thereby limiting the task of the syntactic realizer to the wordingof the simple clauses that realize propositions.Having clarified the document structurer?s task, we posed the following question:given a well-formed rhetorical structure, together with a set of formation rules fordocument structure and a set of discourse connectives for realizing rhetorical rela-tions, can we enumerate all document structures that correctly realize the rhetoricalstructure?and further, can we evaluate these document structures by some metric sothat we can choose the best?
The generation of many alternative solutions was es-sential to the project, which focused on the problem of controlling style in an NLGsystem: by varying a set of stylistic parameters, the user of the system can influencethe evaluation metric that is applied to the set of potential solutions and so influencethe type of solution that will be preferred.As mentioned above, we have explored two methods of enumerating and evaluat-ing document structures, one (the focus of this article) assuming a hierarchical input,the other (described in Bouayad-Agha [2001]) assuming a nonhierarchical input.
Thetwo methods have much in common: they share the same formation rules for doc-ument structure, the same discourse connectives, and (mainly) the same constraintson the correct realization of rhetorical relationships.
Before describing the hierarchicalmethod in detail, it will be useful to review the constraints that they share; these con-straints will be needed, in some form or other, in any system that performs documentstructuring.5.2 Constraints on Realizing Rhetorical StructureIn order to realize a rhetorical structure R(A1, A2) as a document structure, severaldecisions must be made:231Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structure?
What should be the level (e.g., section, paragraph, text-sentence) of thedocument unit that realizes the whole relationship R(A1, A2)??
What should be the levels of the units realizing the arguments A1 andA2??
Should the units realizing A1 and A2 be indented items, or should theyhave the same indentation as the unit realizing R(A1, A2)??
In what linear order should the units realizing A1 and A2 occur??
Should the rhetorical relation R be expressed using a discourseconnective or left implicit??
If a discourse connective is used, should it be linked to the spanrealizing A1 or the span realizing A2?These decisions are closely related, as the following examples show:?
If R(A1, A2) is realized through a text-sentence, then the arguments A1and A2 cannot be realized through a higher unit, such as a paragraph,unless they are indented one place further than R(A1, A2).
(This followsfrom the formation rules for document structure.)?
If R is a nucleus-satellite relation rather than a multinuclear one, thearguments A1 and A2 should not be realized through indented items.11?
If a subordinating conjunction like although is used to express therelation R, the arguments A1 and A2 should be realized within the samesyntactic clause; hence they should be text-phrases, rather thantext-clauses or some higher unit.
Moreover, although should be attachedto the clause expressing A1 (assuming this is the satellite).Constraints arising from the formation rules for document structure have alreadybeen covered; we will therefore focus here on constraints that concern the realizationof rhetorical relations.Leaving aside quotations for the time being, our first suggestion is that indentationshould be employed only for the arguments of a multinuclear relation.
Vertical lists aretypically used when the items in the list play the same role in the discourse?forinstance, they might be symptoms of a disease or potential side effects of a medicine.By definition, the arguments of a nucleus-satellite relation have different purposes; thenucleus makes the main point, whereas the satellite?s role is supportive.
Consider, forexample, the following rhetorical structure:justify(list(tested(elixir), approve(fda, elixir)), safe(elixir))which gives two reasons why Elixir is safe to use.
The LIST relation is multinuclear,whereas JUSTIFY is nucleus-satellite; according to our rule, then, the document struc-tures in (17) and (18) should be avoided, whereas those in (19) and (20) should be11 This constraint is based on the intuition that the items in a vertical list should have parallel roles in theargument, a condition that clearly fails to hold for a nucleus-satellite relation.232Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2acceptable:(17) ?
Elixir is safe to use?
because it has been carefully tested and is approved by the FDA.
(18) ?
Elixir has been carefully tested and is approved by the FDA,?
therefore, it is safe to use.
(19) Elixir is safe to use because?
it has been carefully tested?
it is approved by the FDA(20) ?
Elixir has been carefully tested?
Elixir is approved by the FDATherefore, it is safe to use.Note that when the arguments of a multinuclear relation are presented within atext-clause, syntax requires a connective like and or or.
When they are presented asindented items, the connective is instead often omitted, leaving the relation implicit;the reader has to use common sense to divine whether the list represents a conjunctionor a disjunction.5.2.1 Discourse Connectives.
A comprehensive treatment of discourse connectiveswill not be attempted here, but we will cover the three main categories identified byKnott (1996): subordinating conjunctions, coordinating conjunctions, and conjunctiveadverbs.The properties of a discourse connective can be fully specified by four features:MEANING, SYNTAX, LOCUS, and SPELLING.
As examples, here are three definitions forthe CONCESSION relation:MEANING concessionSYNTAX subordinating conjunctionLOCUS satellitespelling ?although?meaning concessionsyntax coordinating conjunctionlocus nucleusspelling ?but?meaning concessionsyntax conjunctive adverblocus nucleusspelling ?however?The locus specifies which argument of the relation carries the discourse connec-tive.
For a nucleus-satellite relation, the argument is identified either by nucleus orsatellite; for a multinuclear relation it is identified by an ordinal specification suchas initial or final.For each type of discourse connective, it is possible to state specific constraints onthe order of arguments, and on the document units that express them.1212 Some of these are also mentioned by Scott and Souza (1990) and Rosner and Stede (1992).233Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structure5.2.1.1 Subordinating Conjunction.
The spans linked by a subordinating conjunctioncan be arranged in either order (nucleus first or satellite first) but must be expressedwithin the same text-clause.
For example:(21) Although it has no significant side effects, never give Elixir to other patients.
(22) Never give Elixir to other patients, although it has no significant side effects.
(23) # Although it has no significant side effects; never give Elixir to other patients.
(24) # Although it has no significant side effects.
Never give Elixir to other patients.
(25) # Never give Elixir to other patients; although it has no significant side effects.
(26) # Never give Elixir to other patients.
Although it has no significant side effects.5.2.1.2 Coordinating Conjunction.
Spans linked by a coordinating conjunction can oc-cur in the same text-clause or in different text-clauses (or higher units) but must beordered so that the discourse connective is located in the final span (i.e., the secondspan in the case of a nucleus-satellite relation):(27) Elixir has no significant side effects, but never give it to other patients.
(28) # But never give Elixir to other patients, it has no significant side effects.
(29) Elixir has no significant side effects; but never give it to other patients.
(30) # But never give Elixir to other patients; it has no significant side effects.
(31) Elixir has no significant side effects.
But never give it to other patients.
(32) # But never give Elixir to other patients.
It has no significant side effects.Of course examples (28), (30), and (32) are prohibited only as a means of realizinga concession relation between the two propositions.
They might be acceptable in atext realizing a different rhetorical structure in which the satellite had already beenexpressed.5.2.1.3 Conjunctive Adverb.
Spans linked by a conjunctive adverb can occur in differ-ent text-clauses (or higher units), but not in the same text-clause.
For a nucleus-satelliterelation they must be ordered so that the discourse connective is located in the secondspan:(33) # Elixir has no significant side-effects, however, never give it to other patients.
(34) # However, never give Elixir to other patients, it has no significant side-effects.
(35) Elixir has no significant side-effects; however, never give it to other patients.
(36) # However, never give Elixir to other patients; it has no significant side-effects.
(37) Elixir has no significant side-effects.
However, never give it to other patients.
(38) # However, never give Elixir to other patients.
It has no significant side-effects.Again, examples (33), (34), (36), and (38) would be acceptable in realizations of differentrhetorical structures in which the satellite had already been presented.5.3 Planning Document Structure Using Hierarchical InputUsing the hierarchical method, the input rhetorical structure is a tree in which theterminal nodes are formulas representing elementary propositions (i.e., propositionshaving no internal rhetorical complexity), whereas the nonterminal nodes are labeledwith rhetorical relations (see, for example, Figure 10).
This tree is unordered: the roles234Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2concessionjustifyapprove(fda, elixirplus)ban(fda, elixir) contain(elixir, gestodene)SATELLITENUCLEUS SATELLITENUCLEUSFigure 10Example of rhetorical structure.of daughter nodes are shown by labels on the arcs (nucleus or satellite in thecase of a nucleus-satellite relation, or an integer greater than zero in the case of amultinuclear relation).The output is a linguistic structure, represented formally by an ordered tree inwhich each node corresponds to a span of the document.
Nodes are labeled withdocument structure features (e.g., the level and indentation of the unit) and also withsyntactic features, which usually become relevant only at the level of text-clause orbelow.
Discourse connectives are already selected and positioned correctly in the tree;the only task left to the syntactic realizer is to elaborate the tree further by generatingclauses that express the elementary propositions.Our aim in ICONOCLAST has been to find a document-structuring method thatwill generate all document structures that correctly realize an input rhetorical struc-ture, given certain simplifying assumptions about the composition of the documentstructure and the discourse connectives available in the lexicon.
During this initialenumeration of potential solutions, we are not concerned with good style: the pro-cedure should generate clumsy realizations as well as elegant ones.
But we do re-quire a minimal standard of correctness.
There is no point in considering solutionsthat leave propositions in the rhetorical structure unexpressed in the document struc-ture or group them wrongly.
The strategy is first to define a procedure that gen-erates all solutions that are worth considering at all; using this minimally correctset as a basis, we can then posit further constraints that impose particular stylisticpreferences.We assume that a minimally correct solution must satisfy three conditions:1.
The terminal nodes of the document structure must express all thepropositions in the rhetorical structure.2.
In addition to satisfying the document structure formation rules, thesolution must conform to correct syntax within text-clauses.
For example,two elementary propositions within a text clause must be linked by aconjunction placed in the right position.3.
The document structure must be structurally compatible with therhetorical structure.The first two of these conditions are obvious, but the third needs clarification.
Whatexactly is meant by ?structurally compatible?
?We have explored two definitions of structural compatibility that are closely re-lated to the mathematical notions of isomorphism and homomorphism (Landman235Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structure(a)approve(fda, elixirplus)ban(fda, elixir) approve(fda, elixirplus)contain(elixir, gestodene)ban(fda, elixir)(b)contain(elixir, gestodene)PARAGRAPHTEXT?SENTENCETEXT?SENTENCETEXT?CLAUSETEXT?CLAUSE TEXT?CLAUSETEXT?SENTENCETEXT?SENTENCEPARAGRAPHTEXT?SENTENCEFigure 11Isomorphic (a) and homomorphic (b) document structures.1991; Bouayad-Agha, Power, and Scott 2000).
Each notion can be conveniently ex-pressed in terms of groupings of propositions in the rhetorical structure and the dis-course structure.
For an isomorphism (the strongest definition of compatibility), twoconditions must hold:1.
If a node in the document structure represents a span in which the set ofpropositions expressed is P, there must be a corresponding node in therhetorical structure that dominates exactly the same set P of propositions.2.
If a node in the rhetorical structure dominates a set P of propositions,there must be a node in the document structure representing a span inwhich exactly this set P is expressed.Informally, for an isomorphism, all groupings of propositions in the rhetorical struc-ture must be transmitted faithfully to the document structure, and no new groupingsshould be introduced.
For a homomorphism from rhetorical structure to documentstructure, only the first condition is required to be fulfilled.
Any grouping found inthe document structure must correspond to a grouping in the rhetorical structure, butthe document structure may ?flatten out?
the rhetorical structure by leaving somegroupings unexpressed.These two kinds of compatibility, isomorphism and homomorphism, are illustratedby document structures (a) and (b), respectively, in Figure 11, which are alternativerealizations of the rhetorical structure in Figure 10; to simplify, discourse connectiveshave been left out.
Solution (a) is isomorphic with the rhetorical structure, since thepropositions dominated by the justify relation are grouped together in a separatetext-sentence.
Solution (b) is homomorphic only with the rhetorical structure, sincethe propositions are expressed in three separate text-sentences, the internal grouping236Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2remaining implicit.
Here are two texts that might result:(39)(a) Elixir contains gestodene; therefore, it is banned by the FDA.
However, the FDA ap-proves ElixirPlus.
(b) Elixir contains gestodene.
Therefore, it is banned by the FDA.
However, the FDA ap-proves ElixirPlus.Note that by losing a grouping from the rhetorical structure, (39b) introduces anambiguity: its form would also be consistent with an alternative rhetorical structure inwhich the relation justify dominated concession.
From the point of view of express-ing the rhetorical input precisely, the isomorphic solution is always better.
However,when the resulting document structure is complex, or when the correct interpretationcan be inferred easily from the content, there might be stylistic reasons for preferringa looser homomorphic solution.
As a criterion for generating all minimally correctsolutions, therefore, we believe the homomorphic definition of compatibility is moreappropriate.13Having decided what counts as a correct solution, our next task is to find anefficient algorithm that will generate all and only these solutions.
In ICONOCLAST,this is accomplished through a constraint-solving method that formalizes the optionsfor realizing each part of the rhetorical structure, then eliminates those combinedchoices that violate constraints.
The technique has been explained fully elsewhere(Power 2000), so we will confine ourselves here to a sketch of the main points.For each node NR on the rhetorical structure, we can lay out some options onhow the rhetorical fragment dominated by this node will be realized in the documentstructure.
The crucial choices are as follows:?
What should be the level and indentation of the document structurenode that realizes the proposition or relationship NR??
If NR is a nonterminal node, labeled with a rhetorical relation, whatdiscourse connective (if any) should express this relation in thedocument structure??
If NR is nonterminal, in what linear order should its daughter nodes berealized in the document structure?These decisions can be formalized by associating with each node four variables thatwe will call level, indentation, connective, and position.
The potential valuesof these variables represent options for realizing the relevant part of the rhetoricalstructure, and these options will be reduced by considering constraints on which com-binations of values are allowed.
Initially, the possibilities are as follows:level: The level of the document structure unit realizing NR will be a documentunit along the hierarchy from text-phrase to chapter.
In the program, it13 We actually believe that even the less strict requirement of a homomorphism from RS to DS is toostrong, because one occasionally finds natural texts that violate it.
For example, in Figure 4, RS and DSare not only nonisomorphic, but nonhomomorphic, because there is a grouping in the DS (propositionsA, D, E) that is not found in the RS (no node in the RS dominates just these three propositions).
Thisraises the question of how one can distinguish nonhomomorphic solutions that are acceptable (like thatin Figure 4) from ones that are unacceptable (probably the great majority).
To defer this difficult issue,we have preferred in this article to confine our attention to homomorphic solutions.
For furtherdiscussion see Bouayad-Agha, Power, and Scott (2000).237Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structureis convenient to represent this with an integer, so that constraints on ahigher or lower level can be implemented using the operations > and <;we will here continue the notation introduced in Section 4.1, in which L0means text-phrase, L1 means text-clause, and so forth.indentation: The indentation of the document structure unit will be a value inthe range I0 to IMax, as explained in Section 4.2.
Again, in the implemen-tation, it is convenient to use an integer.connective: The value of this variable is either ?, meaning that no connectiveshould be used, or a word from the lexicon.
Thus if the node NR hasthe label concession, the potential values might be ?, although, but, andhowever.position: This variable represents the order in which NR will be realized in thedocument structure, in comparison with its sisters.
The value must lie inthe range 1 .
.
.S, where S is the total number of sisters (including NR).Thus if NR is an argument in a nucleus-satellite relation, the range will be1 .
.
.
2; if it is an argument in a multinuclear relation, the range may belarger.The solution process consists in determining the set of options for each variable (theseare known in constraint logic programming as the domain of the variable), then im-posing constraints on combinations of values, then enumerating all combinations thatsatisfy the constraints.
Each admissible combination of values can then be used as ablueprint for building one of the document structures that may realize the input rhetor-ical structure.
The constraints imposed during the second phase of this algorithm areessentially those described in the last section.6.
Examples of Document StructuringWe now give two examples of the document-structuring method outlined in the lastsection.
First, we look in detail at a very simple task, to make it clear how the methodworks.
Then we show some output for a more complex task, for which the programwill generate dozens of solutions even if the wording of individual propositions isheld constant.6.1 Simple ExampleTo view the document-structuring method from close up, we will use a simplifiedversion of the task discussed in the last section.
The rhetorical structure will comprisejust two propositions linked by a concession relation:concession(ban(fda, elixir), approve(fda, elixirplus))The method works by computing the options for realizing each constituent of therhetorical structure, where a constituent is any node in the rhetorical structure treealong with its descendents.
Thus in the present example there are three constituents?the two propositions and the whole relationship?and for convenience we will labelthem as follows:A: approve(fda, elixirplus)B: ban(fda, elixir)C: concession(ban(fda, elixir), approve(fda, elixirplus))238Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2We can now begin to characterize the units in the document structure that willrealize the rhetorical constituents A, B, and C. For each unit, four choices must bemade: its level, its indentation, its position in relation to its sisters, and its connective.We therefore have a total of twelve variables.
Any combination of values that satis-fies the constraints (as discussed in the last section) will serve as the blueprint for asolution.Following the usual technique for solving constraint satisfaction problems (Hen-tenryck 1989), we assign to each variable a domain of potential values:Constituent Level Indentation Position ConnectiveA (approve) {L0 .
.
.
L3} {I0, I1} {P1, P2} C0B (ban) {L0 .
.
.
L3} {I0, I1} {P1, P2} C0C (concession) {L0 .
.
.
L3} {I0, I1} P1 {C0, Calt, Cbut, Chow}Some of these assignments require some explanation:?
We make the simplifying assumption that the highest unit required willbe the paragraph (formalized as level L3), and that the maximumindentation will be one place (formalized as I1).?
Since constituents A and B are sisters in the rhetorical structure, theirrelative order is formalized by a choice between two positions, P1 andP2.
Constituent C, in contrast, has no sister in the rhetorical structure, soas an ?only child,?
it can have only one position value.?
Constituents A and B are not associated with a discourse connective,because they are elementary propositions, so their value for theconnective variable is C?
(meaning no connective).
Constituent C is insteadassociated with the concession relation, for which we assume that thelexicon offers three connectives: although (Calt), but (Cbut), and however(Chow).
The initial domain for the variable connective(C) thereforecomprises these three possibilities along with C?, the option of leavingthe relation implicit.Having assigned the initial domains, we next proceed to apply some constraints;these will have the effect of reducing some of the domains.
First of all, there are someconstraints applicable to the unit that will serve as the root of the whole documentstructure:Root Level: In a document generation task, we usually have some preconceptionabout the size of the whole document (e.g., it might be a chapter, or asection).
Since this is a small rhetorical structure, we might decree that thewhole text should consist of a paragraph, so that level(C) = L3.Root Indentation: It makes no sense for a whole document to be an indented item,so to realize the root constituent C we may stipulate that indentation(C) =I0.Having applied these constraints to the variables realizing C, we can impose somefurther constraints that arise from the relationship between C and its direct constituentsA and B:239Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructureArgument Indentation: As pointed out in the last section, it is permissible toindent the arguments of a multinuclear relation, but not a nucleus-satelliterelation.
Therefore, given that the indentation of C has been fixed as I0,the indentations of A and B must also be I0.Parental Domination: Since A and B are constituents of C in the rhetorical struc-ture, the units realizing A and B in the document structure will occurwithin the constituent realizing C. Given that all indentations have beenset to I0, this means that level(C) should outrank both level(A) and level(B),and that consequently the option L3 should be removed from the domainsof the last two variables.Sister Equality: Because A and B are sisters in the rhetorical structure (i.e., argu-ments of the same relation), it is appropriate that they should be realizedin the document structure by units of the same level.
We can therefore im-pose the constraint level(A) = level(B).
This does not immediately affectthe domains of these variables, but it does mean that as soon as one isfixed, so is the other.Sister Position: The units realizing the sisters A and B must occur in one of twolinear orders in the document structure?they cannot both come first, orboth second.
We may therefore set the constraint position(A) = position(B).Again this has no immediate effect on the domains, but as soon as onevalue is fixed, so is the other.Obligatory Connective: As Scott and Souza (1990) point out, an NLG system isill-equipped to judge when a rhetorical relation may be left implicit, so itmakes sense to play safe by always realizing the relation using a discourseconnective.
Following this policy, we can remove C0 from the domain ofconnective(C).Through applying these constraints, the domains of the variables have been reducedas follows:Constituent Level Indentation Position ConnectiveA (approve) {L0 .
.
.
L2} I0 {P1, P2} C0B (ban) {L0 .
.
.
L2} I0 {P1, P2} C0C (concession) L3 I0 P1 {Calt, Cbut, Chow}Before enumerating solutions, we need to impose a final set of constraints that areconditional on the choice of discourse connective for C. These constraints have beenexplained fully above, so here we only point out how they are stated in terms of ourvariables.Subordinating Conjunction: The units connected by although may occur in anyorder, but they must be text-phrases.
Therefore, if connective(C) = Calt,then level(A) = level(B) = L0.Coordinating Conjunction: We will assume that a coordinating conjunction likebut may link spans within a text-clause, or across text-clauses and text-sentences, so that no constraint on the levels of A and B results.
However,the satellite must precede the nucleus, so we have position(B) = P1 (andhence, by Sister Position, position(A) = P2).240Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2Conjunctive Adverb: A conjunctive adverb like however should link spans in unitsof text-clause or higher,14 so we can impose the constraints level(A) > L0and level(B) > L0.
(Note that in the implementation, only one of these needbe applied, since the other results from Sister Equality.)
For however, thesatellite must precede the nucleus, so again we have position(B) = P1 andposition(A) = P2.With all potential interactions among decisions taken care of, enumeration canproceed.
In an implementation in constraint logic programming, this is accomplishedthrough a method called labeling, in which the remaining possible values for eachvariable are tried one by one, with backtracking, until all permitted combinationshave been produced.
For this example, this process can be understood most easily ifwe explore in turn the possible values for connective(C).Suppose first that connective(C) = Calt (i.e., that we try although).
Through theconstraint Subordinating Conjunction, this choice immediately fixes all values of level,yielding the following domains:Constituent Level Indentation Position ConnectiveA (approve) L0 I0 {P1, P2} C0B (ban) L0 I0 {P1, P2} C0C (concession) L3 I0 P1 CaltThe only remaining issue is the relative orders of the spans realizing A and B. Enu-merating arbitrarily on position(A), we first try the value P1; by Sister Position thisimmediately yields position(B) = P2, whereupon all values in the table are fixed.
Wetherefore have our first complete solution:Constituent Level Indentation Position ConnectiveA (approve) L0 I0 P1 C0B (ban) L0 I0 P2 C0C (concession) L3 I0 P1 CaltThis is still only a blueprint for a document structure, but with these specificationsthe rest can be inferred.
First, since the units realizing A and B are text-phrases, whereasthe root unit realizing C is a paragraph, the program can interpolate the units neededto make a well-formed document structure: the paragraph has a single text-sentence,which has a single text-clause, which comprises the two text-phrases.
Next, sincealthough attaches to the satellite, the program coordinates it with the clause that willsyntactically realize B.
The document structure is now complete, and after syntacticrealization of the two propositions we might obtain the following paragraph:Solution 1: The FDA approves ElixirPlus, although it bans Elixir.Backing up, the program can now try the alternative order in which position(A) = P2.After inferring the complete document structure in the same way, we thereby obtaina second solution:Solution 2: Although the FDA bans Elixir, it approves ElixirPlus.14 As Oates (2001) has shown, this is not true if multiple discourse connectives are allowed: For instance,one might say ?The FDA bans Elixir but, however, it approves ElixirPlus.?
But in the present example,we assume, for simplicity, that only single discourse connectives are used.241Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructureHaving fully explored the possibilities with connective(C) = Calt, we back up andtry the next value, namely, Cbut.
This time the constraint Coordinating Conjunctionapplies, fixing the position values but leaving several possiblities for level:Constituent Level Indentation Position ConnectiveA (approve) {L0 .
.
.
L2} I0 P2 C0B (ban) {L0 .
.
.
L2} I0 P1 C0C (concession) L3 I0 P1 CbutEnumerating on one of the level variables, for instance, level(A), we can now try inturn the values L0, L1, and L2 (text-phrase, text-clause, and text-sentence); by SisterEquality, any choice will be copied across to level(B), so that we obtain only threefurther solutions rather than nine:Solution 3: The FDA bans Elixir, but it approves ElixirPlus.Solution 4: The FDA bans Elixir; but it approves ElixirPlus.Solution 5: The FDA bans Elixir.
But it approves ElixirPlus.Finally, we try the remaining option, for which connective(C) = Chow.
The constraintConjunctive Adverb now applies, fixing the order of A and B and ruling out solutionsfor which these propositions are realized by text-phrases:Constituent Level Indentation Position ConnectiveA (approve) {L1, L2} I0 P2 C0B (ban) {L1, L2} I0 P1 C0C (concession) L3 I0 P1 ChowIt remains to enumerate (as before) on level(A), trying in turn the values L1 and L2(text-clause and text-sentence).
Sister Equality again copies any selected value acrossto level(B), so that we obtain just two more solutions:Solution 6: The FDA bans Elixir; however, it approves ElixirPlus.Solution 7: The FDA bans Elixir.
However, it approves ElixirPlus.Obviously further texts could be obtained by different wordings of the propo-sitions or different placements of however (e.g., ?The FDA bans Elixir; the FDA ap-proves ElixirPlus, however?).
But these variations do not concern us here, since weassume they are introduced during syntactic realization, not during documentstructuring.6.2 Complex ExampleTo examine a more complex example, it is convenient to use a version of ICONOCLASTin which the wording of individual propositions is prespecified, so that the program?sonly task is to explore the set of possible document structures.
The input to thisprogram is provided in the form of an XML file using the tags RhetRep (for rhetoricalrelationships) and SemRep (for propositions) (Cahill et al 1999).
The roles of satelliteand nucleus are distinguished implicitly by the order of the elements (satellite precedesnucleus).
Thus the example discussed in the last sectionconcession(ban(fda, elixir), approve(fda, elixirplus))242Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2Figure 12Running the document planner.could be encoded as follows:<RhetRep relation=concession><SemRep prop="the FDA bans Elixir"/><SemRep prop="the FDA approves ElixirPlus"/></RhetRep>Obviously this will sometimes lead to some clumsy wording (e.g., through inappro-priate decisions on whether to use pronouns), but we can try to ignore this whenevaluating the generated document structures.As a more complicated example we will consider a rhetorical structure withtwo nucleus-satellite relations (evidence, concession) and one multinuclear relation(list):<RhetRep relation=concession><SemRep prop="Elixir contains gestodene"/><RhetRep relation=evidence><RhetRep relation=list><SemRep prop="the medicine has been thoroughly tested"/><SemRep prop="it has no significant side effects"/></RhetRep><SemRep prop="Elixir is safe to use"/></RhetRep></RhetRep>The main idea here is that Elixir is safe to use although it contains gestodene; theclaim that Elixir is safe is supported by evidence comprising two conjoined facts: Ithas been thoroughly tested, and it has no significant side effects.Figure 12 shows a snapshot of the program running on this example.
Through thecontrol panel on the left, the user can decide which XML model to use as input; inthe figure, this is set to ?Concession-Evidence-Conjunction,?
the name given to this243Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structureinput model.
Using the button labeled ?Number of versions,?
the user can determinethe maximum number of versions that will be generated; since this has been set to500, the program will return the first 500 solutions that it finds.15 The other buttonscontrol hard constraints and have been set deliberately to rather restrictive values (e.g.,indented items have been allowed only to one level of indentation and may consistonly of text-phrases, not larger units like text-sentences or paragraphs).
Even withthese restrictive settings, 58 solutions have been generated; they are presented in thepane on the right, ordered (partially) from best to worst.
The scores in parenthesesafter the version number report the number of defects that the program detected forthat particular version: thus for each of the solutions that appear in the snapshot,no defects were found.16 As a comparison, here is version 58, which came up at thebottom of the class with six defects:Version 58 (6)Elixir contains gestodene.However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested.It has no significant side effects.Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.The specific defects cited here were ?Single-sentence paragraph?
(occurring four times)and ?Lost rhetorical grouping?
(occurring twice).
(The defects are explained below, andthe full set of solutions is given in the Appendix.
)At present the program looks for six stylistic defects, which are formulated mainlyby looking at generated solutions and making an intuitive judgment as to why theyare bad.
We have not tried to give the stylistic assessment a sound theoretical orempirical basis; the aim at this stage is to confirm that by applying some simpleintuitive principles, we can separate reasonably good solutions from obviously horribleones.
The six defects are as follows (and we stress again that they are only provisional):Nucleus precedes satellite: It is generally the case for English that the more im-portant information is placed at the end of the sentence (i.e., end focus[Quirk et al 1985]).
For example, the rheme of a sentence comes after itstheme, and new information is typically placed after given information(Halliday 1985; Givo?n 1988).
There is also psycholinguistic evidence tosuggest that sentences that conform to this general pattern are processedmore easily (Yekovich, Walker, and Blackman 1979).
Since by definition thenucleus is more important than the satellite (Mann and Thompson 1986,page 6), it thus makes sense to place the nucleus second.
Obviously thisprinciple is debatable, and the best order might differ from one relationto another, but we have noticed that for the very common relations suchas concession and evidence, the order satellite-nucleus seems to workbetter.
The program therefore scores a defect every time that a nucleus isplaced before its satellite.Left-branching structure: Fodor, Bever, and Garrett (1974) report that left-branchingstructures take more time to process and remember than right-branching15 Obviously, if there are fewer than 500 solutions, it will return all the solutions it finds.16 When it finds a defect in a version, the system also reports on the type of defect that it finds.244Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2ones.
We have also noticed that when a document structure coordinatestwo units of different sizes, it reads best when the smaller unit is placedfirst.
We believe that this may be related to the more general organizationalprinciple of end weight (Quirk et al 1985).
Thus in the program, whenan elementary proposition is coordinated with a unit containing severalpropositions, a defect is scored whenever the elementary proposition isplaced second.Lost rhetorical grouping: As discussed, our method of document structuring doesnot demand an isomorphism between rhetorical structure and documentstructure; consequently, a grouping that is present in rhetorical structuremay be left implicit in the document structure.
Although we allow a group-ing to be lost in this way, a defect is scored every time it is found to haveoccurred.Single-sentence paragraph: Paragraphs containing a single text-sentence usuallylook strange, so they are scored as a defect.Oversimple text-clauses: We noticed this subtle defect only as a result of experi-ence with the program.
In most cases it looks odd to compose a sentencefrom two text-clauses, each expressing a single proposition:Elixir contains gestodene; therefore, it is banned by the FDA.The FDA bans Elixir; however, it approves ElixirPlus.Assuming it is agreed that these sentences are a little strange, why shouldthis be so?
We would suggest the following reason.
The semicolon is asomewhat unusual device, more sophisticated than the comma, and onetherefore expects it to be used only when ordinary methods are unsatis-factory.
In these examples, containing only two propositions, a single text-clause using conjunctions (e.g., since, although) instead of adverbs wouldexpress the meaning equally clearly, so the semicolon seems unnecessary,and therefore distracting.
A defect is therefore scored every time this isfound to have happened.Repeated discourse connective: If a rhetorical structure contains two relations ofthe same type, one dominating the other, a defect is scored if they areexpressed using the same discourse connective.
Here is a simple exampleof this defect (repetition of although), followed by an alternative solutionthat avoids the defect:The FDA approves ElixirPlus although it bans Elixir although Elixir hasbeen thoroughly tested.The FDA approves ElixirPlus but it bans Elixir although Elixir has beenthoroughly tested.7.
Discussion and ConclusionOur main aim has been to introduce and motivate abstract document structure as animportant representational level in natural language processing.
This proposal restson two separate claims: first, that it is useful to distinguish abstract document structurefrom concrete graphical realization; second, that abstract document structure shouldalso be distinguished from rhetorical structure.245Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document Structure7.1 Abstract versus ConcreteWe argue that the transition from a rhetorical-semantic message to a fully specifieddocument can usefully be divided into two stages.
During the first stage, the authorputs the message into words and organizes the words into higher linguistic units likesentences, paragraphs, and bulleted lists.
All decisions pertaining to the realization ofliteral content take place during this stage.
During the second stage, detailed format-ting takes place: quotations are realized either by single or double quotes (or someother method); emphasis is realized through italics, boldface, small capitals, or under-lining; paragraphs are realized through an introductory tab or double line spacing;and so forth.
Decisions about format do not affect the factual or logical content of thedocument, although they might convey ?meanings?
of a subtler sort, communicatedthrough the typographical preferences of the authors (e.g., traditional versus trendy,ornamental versus puritanical, compact versus expansive).It is worth noting that similar distinctions are made in other branches of linguistics.Thus in phonology, a distinction is made between a phonemic level and a phoneticlevel.
The word grass has a single phonemic representation but will be pronounceddifferently by people from different regions or different social classes; these distinctionsare phonetic, not phonemic.
To refer to an area in the garden as grass rather than lawnis one kind of decision; to pronounce grass with a short or long vowel is another.
Atheory that mapped directly from the semantic concept to the phonetic form wouldmiss a generalization that is not only obvious theoretically, but useful practically.
Theinvention of writing provides additional support for an intermediate phonemic level,because the different pronunciations of grass are all written down in the same way;similarly, we would argue, the representational level of abstract document structurehas received more recent support from the invention of markup languages like HTMLand LaTEX.The concept of abstract document structure is not linked to any particular architec-ture for natural language generation or understanding.
In the RAGS ?reference archi-tecture?
for NLG (Mellish et al 2000; Cahill et al 2001), document structure is distin-guished from rhetorical structure as a data type, with no commitment as to when thesetwo data structures are created during the generation process.
The ICONOCLAST sys-tem, described in this article, assumes that rhetorical planning fully precedes documentstructuring: in other words, the RST tree has to be complete before the process of cre-ating a document structure can begin.
Such an architecture could be thought of as arefinement of the standard pipeline (Reiter 1994), with the document-planning phasedivided into two parts (rhetorical planning and document structuring).
However, theICONOCLAST method would work equally well if a partial assignment of documentstructure was part of its input: This would be treated merely as a more specific set ofconstraints on possible solutions, which is precisely the arrangement that is used inthe RAGS reimplementation of the Caption Generation System (Mellish et al 2000).7.2 Document Structure versus Rhetorical StructureIn the terminology of HTML and other mark-up languages, tags like section anddescription list are sometimes called logical, suggesting that they are rhetoricalrather than linguistic categories.
We have argued that this is a mistake, comparable toa confusion of syntax with semantics.
In our view, the term rhetorical structure shouldproperly be applied to the higher-level pragmatic and semantic organization of themessage, with no commitment to the means by which this message will be expressed?whether by speech, or gesture, or diagram, or written document.
By contrast, thecategories section and description list are specific to a particular medium, thewritten document; hence the term document structure.
The two levels are easily confused246Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2because we often refer to spans of a document using a noun that describes theirrhetorical role (e.g., summary in an academic paper).Some of the distinctions made in this article have parallels in work on documentanalysis.
Various representations for document structure have been proposed in thedocument analysis community, of which the most developed is the Document AttributeFormat Specification (DAFS) (Dori et al 1997).
In DAFS, the physical structure of adocument is distinguished from its logical structure; typical physical units are block,frame, page, and page set, and typical logical units are sentence, paragraph, section,and header.
More formally, the units of logical structure, called textons, are organizedinto levels from character (level 0), word (level 1), and sentence or phrase (level 2) upto sections and whole documents; the lower levels (up to paragraph) are called sim-ple textons, and the higher levels are called compound textons.
Simple textons arerealized through blocks of text, whereas compound textons additionally have a head-ing and (optionally) a trailer.
There is considerable overlap here with our distinctionbetween concrete and abstract document structure; differences arise because the anal-ysis community is concerned mainly with the relationship between logical structureand physical structure (to use that community?s terminology), whereas the generationcommunity, coming from the opposite direction, is concerned mainly with the rela-tionship between logical structure (i.e., abstract document structure) and rhetoricalstructure.Having drawn these distinctions, we have sketched a formal theory of abstractdocument structure and shown through an implemented NLG system that this theoryallows us to enumerate systematically the high-level linguistic structures that can real-ize a given rhetorical-semantic input.
The formal description of document structure isbased on Nunberg?s (1990) text-grammar, which we have extended in two ways.
First,we introduce larger units such as sections and chapters; Nunberg instead focuses onthe levels relevant for punctuation (i.e., text-sentence and below).
Secondly, we intro-duce a second feature, abstract indentation.
Whereas Nunberg categorizes units onlyaccording to the feature we have called level (the hierarchy from text-phrase, text-clause, etc., up to section and chapter), we categorize units according to two features,level and indentation.
This allows the generation of such patterns as bulleted lists,including more complex cases in which one list is embedded within another.
Usingthis descriptive scheme, it has proved relatively easy to state constraints on the inter-action between content, layout, and wording, especially as regards the use of discourseconnectives.By introducing a formal scheme for representing document structure, we havebeen able to define the task of document structuring in a simple and clear way.
Fol-lowing Scott and Souza (1990) and many other researchers on NLG, it is assumedthat the rhetorical input takes the form of an RST tree; the output is a tree rep-resenting high-level linguistic structure, each node being labeled with a documentstructure category defined by the features level and indentation.
Our scheme is byno means complete (e.g., it has no treatment of tables, or figures, or text presentedin boxes); however, it is sufficient to generate hundreds of alternative solutions evenfor a rhetorical structure containing only four or five elementary propositions.
Byclarifying the task of document structuring in this way, we have been able to de-fine it as a constraint satisfaction problem and thus to implement a system in whichthe relevant constraints are defined declaratively; this means that constraints can beadded or removed without changing the rest of the program.
Such a system is use-ful not only as a module in an NLG architecture, but also as a tool for theoreticalinvestigation: the results of any proposed combination of constraints can be quicklytested.247Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructureIn pursuing this investigation, our methodology has been essentially the same asNunberg?s, relying largely on intuition as a means of separating the wheat from thechaff.
Moreover, by implementing the theory in a system that can enumerate solutionssystematically, we are able to test more thoroughly any proposed rule or constraint, atleast for simple examples.
This methodology assumes, first, that intuition is a reliableguide, and second, that constraints derived from small examples will apply also tofull-scale examples.
In the initial stages of an investigation, these assumptions seemreasonably safe.
Many of the solutions generated by the program are so obviouslygood or bad that there is no point in submitting them to the judgment of literaryexperts or subjecting them to some other kind of empirical test.
No doubt large-scaleexamples will require additional constraints, but much can still be learned from simpleones: an intrinsically bad paragraph will usually remain bad when placed into a largercontext.As a contrast, it is interesting to consider the investigation into layout by Batemanet al (2001).
Their approach could not be more different from ours.
Instead of sim-ple examples, they analyze (and regenerate) an exceedingly complicated page from amagazine.
This page, which describes the game of hockey, includes several drawings,a photograph, diagrams of the pitch, boxes of text, two headers, and a glossary, all laidout in five different grids, each having a different division into columns.
Their RSTanalysis of this page is correspondingly complex, with 45 elementary propositionsand the same number of rhetorical relationships (the whole RST tree therefore hasnearly 100 nodes).
To analyze such an example informally may be a useful source ofinsights, but to attempt a complete formal analysis (and generation) of the page seemsbold in the extreme.
However, despite this difference in approach, the frameworkthat emerges from Bateman et al?s work is broadly similar to ours.
First, a distinc-tion is made between ?layout structure?
and ?physical layout?
(Bateman et al 2001,section 3.1); although the discussion concerns boxes in a grid rather than more con-ventional linguistic units like section and paragraph, this distinction reflects the needfor an abstract level of representation that can be related more easily to the rhetor-ical structure of the message.
Secondly, in sections 4 and 5 of their article, Batemanet al distinguish clearly between layout structure and rhetorical structure, pointingout that the two are not necessarily isomorphic and that constraints on the mappingmust therefore be considered:Mapping is generally achieved by placing parts of the RST-structurein correspondence with particular nodes in layout structure.
[.
.
.]
Aswe have now seen, however, this correspondence is complicated bythe fact that the layout structure and the RST tree need not remaincongruent.
(Bateman et al 2001, page 430)However, Bateman and his colleagues do not provide a detailed account of the forma-tion rules for layout structure, or of the constraints on the mapping between the RSTtree and the layout structure.
We are unsure, for example, whether ?layout structure?would include such patterns as sections, paragraphs, and bulleted lists.
Nevertheless,the role played by these two abstract representations seems similar?they mediate be-tween rhetorical structure and physical layout?so there is some reason to think thatthe two approaches are yielding results that are compatible.Both in the Bateman et al study and in our own work, a problem arises as to howthe proposed representations and constraints should be validated.
Our own approach,at least provisionally, has been that the theory should be embodied in a program248Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2that can generate many alternative solutions and rank them using some kind of costfunction; at this point, we rely on intuition to judge whether the system has generateda plausible set of solutions and ranked them in an appropriate order.
For the verycomplex examples considered by Bateman et al, the set of solutions could only besampled: Even keeping the wording of individual propositions constant, they wouldnumber billions.
Evaluation in this field has to take account of style as well as quality;in other words, it has a subjective side as well as an objective one.
The problemis not just to generate a good solution, but to generate one that satisfies a set ofsubjective preferences, so that, for example, different documents produced for thesame company will exhibit the desired consistency of style.
Eventually, some kindof empirical investigation will be needed (e.g., an expert evaluation, or a study ofthe impression made on the intended readers).
At the present state of knowledge,however, such refinements seem exaggerated: If we can separate the satisfactory fromthe barbaric, we will be more than content.AcknowledgmentsThe research presented in this article wascarried out as part of the ICONOCLASTproject(http://www.itri.bton.ac.uk/projects/iconoclast),with funding from Engineering andPhysical Sciences Research Council grantnumber L77102.
We are extremely gratefulto Kees van Deemter and three anonymousreviewers for their critical feedback on anearlier draft of this article.ReferencesArens, Yigal and Eduard Hovy.
1990.
Textlayout as a problem of modality selection.In Proceedings of the Fifth Conference onKnowledge-Based Specification, RADCWorkshop, pages 87?94, Syracuse, NewYork.Association of British PharmaceuticalIndustry (ABPI).
1997.
Compendium ofPatient Information Leaflets.
Association ofBritish Pharmaceutical Industry, London.Bateman, John, Thomas Kamps, JorgeKleinz, and Klaus Reichenberger.
2001.Towards constructive text, diagram, andlayout generation for informationpresentation.
Computational Linguistics,27(3):409?449.Bolinger, Dwight, editor.
1972.
Intonation.Penguin, Harmonsworth, England.Bouayad-Agha, Nadjet.
2000.
Using anabstract rhetorical representation togenerate a variety of pragmaticallycongruent texts.
In Proceedings of the 38thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL), StudentWorkshop, pages 16?22, Hong Kong,October.Bouayad-Agha, Nadjet.
2001.
The role ofdocument structure in text generation.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Brighton,Brighton, U.K. Also available as TechnicalReport ITRI-01-24, InformationTechnology Research Institute, Universityof Brighton, Brighton, U.K.Bouayad-Agha, Nadjet, Richard Power, andDonia Scott.
2000.
Can text structure beincompatible with rhetorical structure?
InProceedings of the International NaturalLanguage Generation Conference, pages194?200, Mitzpe Ramon, Israel, June12?16.Bouayad-Agha, Nadjet, Donia Scott, andRichard Power.
2000.
Integrating contentand style in documents: A case study ofpatient information leaflets.
InformationDesign, 9(2):161?176.Bouayad-Agha, Nadjet, Donia Scott, andRichard Power.
2001.
The influence oflayout on the interpretation of referringexpressions.
In L. Degand, Y. Bestgen,W.
Spooren, and L. van Waes, editors,Multidisciplinary Approaches to Discourse.Amsterdam, Nodus, pages 133?141.
Alsopresented as a paper at theMultidisciplinary Approaches toDiscourse (MAD) workshop, Ittre,Belgium, August 2001.
A slightlymodified version is also available asTechnical Report ITRI-01-23, InformationTechnology Research Institute, Universityof Brighton, Brighton, U.K.Cahill, Lynne, John Carroll, Roger Evans,Daniel Paiva, Richard Power, Donia Scott,and Kees van Deemter.
2001.
From rags toriches: Exploiting the potential of aflexible generation architecture.
InProceedings of the 39th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics(ACL?01), Toulouse, France, pages 98?105.Also available as Technical ReportITRI-01-07, Information TechnologyResearch Institute, University of Brighton,Brighton, U.K.249Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructureCahill, Lynne, Christine Doran, RogerEvans, Chris Mellish, Daniel Paiva, MikeReape, Donia Scott, and Neil Tipper.
1999.Towards a reference architecture fornatural language generation systems.Technical Report ITRI-99-14, InformationTechnology Research Institute, Universityof Brighton, Brighton, U.K.Chomsky, Noam and Morris Halle.
1968.The Sound Pattern of English.
Harper andRow, New York.Coch, Jose.
1996.
Overview of AlethGen.
InDemonstrations and Posters of the EighthInternational Natural Language GenerationWorkshop (INLG?96), Herstmonceux Castle,Sussex, U.K., pages 25?28.Crystal, David.
1969.
Prosodic Systems andIntonation in English.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.DiMarco, Chrysanne, Graeme Hirst, LeoWanner, and John Wilkinson.
1995.Healthdoc: Customizing patientinformation and health education bymedical condition and personalcharacteristics.
In First InternationalWorkshop on Artificial Intelligence in PatientEducation, Glasgow, August.Dori, Dov, David Doermann, Christian Shin,Robert Haralick, Ihsin Phillips, MitchellBuckman, and David Ross.
1997.
Therepresentation of document structure: Ageneric object-process analysis.
InP.
Wang and H. Bunke, editors, Handbookon Optical Character Recognition andDocument Image Analysis.
World Scientific,Singapore, pages 421?456.Fodor, Janet, Thomas Bever, and MerrilGarrett.
1974.
The Psychology of Language.McGraw-Hill, New York.Ford, Andrew and Tim Dixon.
1996.Spinning the Web.
International ThompsonComputer, London.Givo?n, Talmy.
1988.
The pragmatics of wordorder: Predictability, importance andattention.
In M. Hammond, E. Moravcsik,and J. Werth, editors, Studies in SyntacticTypology.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam,pages 243?284.Halliday, Michael.
1967.
Intonation andGrammar in British English.
Mouton, theHague.Halliday, Michael.
1985.
An Introduction toFunctional Grammar.
Edward Arnold,Baltimore.Hentenryck, Pascal Van.
1989.
ConstraintSatisfaction in Logic Programming.
MITPress, Cambridge.Huang, Xiaorong and Armin Fiedler.
1997.Proof verbalization as an application ofNLG.
In Proceedings of the 16th InternationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence(IJCAI?97), Nagoya, Japan, pages 965?970.Knott, Alistair.
1996.
A Data-DrivenMethodology for Motivating a Set of CoherenceRelations.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofEdinburgh, Edinburgh, U.K.Knott, Alistair, John Oberlander, MickO?Donnell, and Chris Mellish.
2001.Beyond elaboration: The interaction ofrelations and focus in coherent text.
InT.
Sanders, J. Schilperoord, andW.
Spooren, editors, Text Representation:Linguistic and Psycholinguistics Aspects.Benjamins, Amsterdam, pages 181?196.Ladd, Robert.
1996.
Intonational Phonology.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Landman, Fred.
1991.
Structures forSemantics, volume 45 in Studies inLinguistics and Philosophy.
KluwerAcademic.Lavoie, Benoit and Owen Rambow.
1997.
Afast and portable realizer for textgeneration systems.
In Proceedings of theFifth Conference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing (ANLP?97), Washington, D.C.,pages 265?68.Mann, William and Sandra Thompson.1986.
Rhetorical structure theory:Description and construction of textstructures.
In Proceedings of the ThirdInternational Workshop on Text Generation,Nijmegen, the Netherlands, August.Mann, William and Sandra Thompson.1987.
Rhetorical structure theory: Atheory of text organization.
TechnicalReport ISI/RS-87-190, InformationSciences Institute, University of SouthernCalifornia, Marina del Rey.Marcu, Daniel.
1997.
From local to globalcoherence: A bottom-up approach to textplanning.
In Proceedings of the 14th NationalConference on Artificial Intelligence,Providence, Rhode Island, July.
AAAI,Menlo Park, California, pages 629?635.Mellish, Chris, Roger Evans, Lynne Cahill,Christine Doran, Daniel Paiva, MikeReape, Donia Scott, and Neil Tipper.
2000.A representation for complex andevolving data dependencies in generation.In Proceedings of the Sixth Applied NaturalLanguage Processing Conference (ANLP?00),Seattle.Mittal, Vibhu, Johanna Moore, GuiseppeCarenini, and Steven Roth.
1998.Describing complex charts in naturallanguage: A caption generation system.Computational Linguistics, 24(3):431?468.Moore, Johanna and Martha Pollack.
1992.A problem for RST: The need formulti-level discourse analysis.Computational Linguistics, 18(4):537?544.Moser, Megan and Johanna Moore.
1996.250Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2Towards a synthesis of two accounts ofdiscourse structure.
ComputationalLinguistics, 22(3):409?419.Nunberg, Geoff.
1990.
The Linguistics ofPunctuation, volume 18 in CSLI LectureNotes.
CSLI, Stanford, California.Oates, Sarah.
2001.
Generating multiplediscourse markers in text.
Master?s thesis,University of Brighton, Brighton, U.K.Also available as Technical ReportITRI-01-25, Information TechnologyResearch Institute, University of Brighton,Brighton, U.K.Paris, Cecile, Keith Vander Linden, MarcusFischer, Anthony Hartley, LynnePemberton, Richard Power, and DoniaScott.
1995.
A support tool for writingmultilingual instructions.
In Proceedings ofthe Fourteenth International Joint Conferencein Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-95), pages1398?1404.
Also available as TechnicalReport ITRI-95-11, InformationTechnology Research Institute, Universityof Brighton, Brighton, U.K.,http://www.itri.bton.ac.uk/techreports/.Pierrehumbert, Janet.
1980.
The Phonologyand Phonetics of English Intonation.
Ph.D.thesis, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, Cambridge.Power, Richard.
2000.
Planning texts byconstraint satisfaction.
In Proceedings of the18th International Conference inComputational Linguistics (COLING),Saarbru?cken, Germany, pages 642?648.Power, Richard and Nico Cavallotto.
1996.Multilingual generation of administrativeforms.
In Proceedings of the EighthInternational Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, Herstmonceux Castle, Sussex,U.K., pages 17?19.Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum,Geoffrey Leech, and Jan Svartvik.
1985.
AComprehensive Grammar of the EnglishLanguage.
Longman, London.Reiter, Ehud.
1994.
Has a consensus NLgeneration architecture appeared, and is itpsycholinguistically plausible?
InProceedings of the Seventh InternationalWorkshop on Natural Language Generation(INLGW-1994), Kennebunkport, Maine,pages 163?170.Reiter, Ehud and Robert Dale.
2000.
BuildingNatural Language Generation Systems.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Rosner, Dietmar and Manfred Stede.
1992.Customizing RST for the automaticproduction of technical manuals.
InR.
Dale, D. Roesner, E. H. Hovy, andO.
Stock, editors, Aspects of AutomatedNatural Language Generation.Springer-Verlag, Heidelberg, pages199?214.Schriver, Karen.
1997.
Dynamics in DocumentDesign: Creating Text for Readers.
WileyComputer, New York.Scott, Donia and Clarisse de Souza.
1990.Getting the message across in RST-basedtext generation.
In R. Dale, C. Mellish,and M. Zock, editors, Current Research inNatural Language Generation, volume 4 inCognitive Science Series.
Academic Press,New York, pages 47?73.Scott, Donia and Cecile Paris.
1995.Identifying the mapping of semanticsonto language: Going beyond the text.
InWorking Papers of the AAAI Symposium onEmpirical Methods in Discourse Interpretationand Generation, Stanford University,Stanford, California, March.Scott, Donia and Richard Power.
2001.Generating textual diagrams anddiagrammatic texts.
In H. Bunt and R-J.Beun, editors, Cooperative MultimodalCommunication, volume 2155 in LectureNotes in Artificial Intelligence.Springer-Verlag, Berlin, pages 13?29.
Alsoavailable as Technical Report ITRI-01-02,Information Technology ResearchInstitute, University of Brighton,Brighton, U.K.?t Hart, Johan, Rene?
Collier, and AntonieCohen.
1990.
A Perceptual Study ofIntonation, in series Cambridge Studies inSpeech Science and Communication.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Yekovich, Frank, Carol Walker, and HaroldBlackman.
1979.
The role of presupposedand focal information in integratingsentences.
Journal of Verbal Learning andVerbal Behavior, 18:535?548.251Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructureAppendix.
Solutions Found for the Example in Section 6.1Number of versions = 58Version 1 (0)Elixir contains gestodene.
However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested and ithas no significant side effects; consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Version 2 (0)Elixir contains gestodene; however, since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsElixir is safe to use.Version 3 (0)Elixir contains gestodene.
However, since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsElixir is safe to use.Version 4 (0)Elixir contains gestodene; however,?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsso Elixir is safe to use.Version 5 (0)Elixir contains gestodene.
However,?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsso Elixir is safe to use.Version 6 (0)Elixir contains gestodene.
However,?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effects;consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Version 7 (1)Elixir contains gestodene.
However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested and ithas no significant side effects.
Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical grouping252Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2Version 8 (1)Elixir contains gestodene.
However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested and ithas no significant side effects.
Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphVersion 9 (1)Although Elixir contains gestodene since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsElixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingVersion 10 (1)Although Elixir contains gestodene?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsso Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingVersion 11 (1)Elixir contains gestodene but since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsElixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingVersion 12 (1)Elixir contains gestodene but?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsso Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingVersion 13 (1)Elixir contains gestodene; however, Elixir is safe to use since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effects.Nucleus precedes satellite253Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructureVersion 14 (1)Elixir contains gestodene.
However, since the medicine has been thoroughly testedand it has no significant side effects Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingVersion 15 (1)Elixir contains gestodene.
However, Elixir is safe to use since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effects.Nucleus precedes satelliteVersion 16 (1)Elixir contains gestodene; however, the medicine has been thoroughly tested and ithas no significant side effects so Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingVersion 17 (1)Elixir contains gestodene.
However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested and ithas no significant side effects so Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingVersion 18 (1)Elixir contains gestodene; however, the medicine has been thoroughly tested and ithas no significant side effects; consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingVersion 19 (1)Elixir contains gestodene; however,?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effects;consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingVersion 20 (1)Elixir contains gestodene; however, since the medicine has been thoroughly tested andit has no significant side effects Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingVersion 21 (1)Elixir contains gestodene.
However,?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effects.Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical grouping254Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2Version 22 (1)Elixir contains gestodene.However,?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effects.Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphVersion 23 (2)Elixir contains gestodene but since the medicine has been thoroughly tested and it hasno significant side effects Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical groupingVersion 24 (2)?
The medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsso Elixir is safe to use although Elixir contains gestodene.Nucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingVersion 25 (2)Elixir contains gestodene but the medicine has been thoroughly tested and it has nosignificant side effects so Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical groupingVersion 26 (2)Elixir contains gestodene but Elixir is safe to use since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effects.Nucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingVersion 27 (2)Elixir contains gestodene; however, Elixir is safe to use since the medicine has beenthoroughly tested and it has no significant side effects.Nucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingVersion 28 (2)Although Elixir contains gestodene since the medicine has been thoroughly tested andit has no significant side effects Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical grouping255Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructureVersion 29 (2)Elixir contains gestodene.
However, Elixir is safe to use since the medicine has beenthoroughly tested and it has no significant side effects.Nucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingVersion 30 (2)Elixir contains gestodene.However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested and it has no significant sideeffects; consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphSingle-sentence paragraphVersion 31 (2)Although Elixir contains gestodene the medicine has been thoroughly tested and ithas no significant side effects so Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical groupingVersion 32 (2)Elixir contains gestodene.
However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested; it hasno significant side effects; consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingOversimple text-clausesVersion 33 (2)Elixir contains gestodene.However, since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsElixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphSingle-sentence paragraphVersion 34 (2)Elixir contains gestodene.
However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested; it hasno significant side effects.
Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingOversimple text-clausesVersion 35 (2)Elixir contains gestodene.
However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested.
It hasno significant side effects.
Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical grouping256Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2Version 36 (2)Elixir contains gestodene.However,?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsso Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphSingle-sentence paragraphVersion 37 (2)Elixir contains gestodene.However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested; it has no significant side effects.Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphOversimple text-clausesVersion 38 (2)Elixir contains gestodene.However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested.
It has no significant side ef-fects.
Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphLost rhetorical groupingVersion 39 (2)Since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsElixir is safe to use although Elixir contains gestodene.Nucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingVersion 40 (2)Elixir contains gestodene.However,?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effects;consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphSingle-sentence paragraph257Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructureVersion 41 (2)Although Elixir contains gestodene Elixir is safe to use since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effects.Nucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingVersion 42 (3)Elixir contains gestodene.However, Elixir is safe to use since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effects.Single-sentence paragraphNucleus precedes satelliteSingle-sentence paragraphVersion 43 (3)Since the medicine has been thoroughly tested and it has no significant side effectsElixir is safe to use although Elixir contains gestodene.Nucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical groupingVersion 44 (3)The medicine has been thoroughly tested and it has no significant side effects so Elixiris safe to use although Elixir contains gestodene.Nucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical groupingVersion 45 (3)Elixir contains gestodene.However, since the medicine has been thoroughly tested and it has no significantside effects Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphSingle-sentence paragraphLost rhetorical groupingVersion 46 (3)Although Elixir contains gestodene Elixir is safe to use since the medicine has beenthoroughly tested and it has no significant side effects.Nucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical grouping258Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2Version 47 (3)Elixir contains gestodene.However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested.
It has no significant side ef-fects.Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphLost rhetorical groupingSingle-sentence paragraphVersion 48 (3)Elixir is safe to use since?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effectsalthough Elixir contains gestodene.Nucleus precedes satelliteNucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingVersion 49 (3)Elixir contains gestodene but Elixir is safe to use since the medicine has been thor-oughly tested and it has no significant side effects.Nucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical groupingVersion 50 (3)Elixir contains gestodene; however, the medicine has been thoroughly tested; it hasno significant side effects; consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Lost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical groupingOversimple text-clausesVersion 51 (3)Elixir contains gestodene.However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested and it has no significant sideeffects so Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphSingle-sentence paragraphLost rhetorical groupingVersion 52 (3)Elixir contains gestodene.However,?
the medicine has been thoroughly tested?
it has no significant side effects.259Power, Scott, and Bouayad-Agha Document StructureConsequently, Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphLost rhetorical groupingSingle-sentence paragraphVersion 53 (4)Elixir contains gestodene.However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested; it has no significant side effects;consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphSingle-sentence paragraphLost rhetorical groupingOversimple text-clausesVersion 54 (4)Elixir is safe to use since the medicine has been thoroughly tested and it has nosignificant side effects although Elixir contains gestodene.Nucleus precedes satelliteNucleus precedes satelliteLost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical groupingVersion 55 (4)Elixir contains gestodene.However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested and it has no significant sideeffects.Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphLost rhetorical groupingSingle-sentence paragraphSingle-sentence paragraphVersion 56 (4)Elixir contains gestodene.However, Elixir is safe to use since the medicine has been thoroughly tested andit has no significant side effects.Single-sentence paragraphNucleus precedes satelliteSingle-sentence paragraphLost rhetorical groupingVersion 57 (5)Elixir contains gestodene.However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested; it has no significant side effects.Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.260Computational Linguistics Volume 29, Number 2Single-sentence paragraphLost rhetorical groupingSingle-sentence paragraphOversimple text-clausesSingle-sentence paragraphVersion 58 (6)Elixir contains gestodene.However, the medicine has been thoroughly tested.It has no significant side effects.Consequently, Elixir is safe to use.Single-sentence paragraphLost rhetorical groupingLost rhetorical groupingSingle-sentence paragraphSingle-sentence paragraphSingle-sentence paragraph
