c?
2004 Association for Computational LinguisticsCentering: A Parametric Theory and ItsInstantiationsMassimo Poesio?
Rosemary Stevenson?University of Essex University of DurhamBarbara Di Eugenio?
Janet Hitzeman?University of Illinois at Chicago MITRE CorporationCentering theory is the best-known framework for theorizing about local coherence andsalience; however, its claims are articulated in terms of notions which are only partially specified,such as ?utterance,?
?realization,?
or ?ranking.?
A great deal of research has attempted toarrive at more detailed specifications of these parameters of the theory; as a result, the claims ofcentering can be instantiated in many different ways.
We investigated in a systematic fashionthe effect on the theory?s claims of these different ways of setting the parameters.
Doing thisrequired, first of all, clarifying what the theory?s claims are (one of our conclusions being thatwhat has become known as ?Constraint 1?
is actually a central claim of the theory).
Secondly,we had to clearly identify these parametric aspects: For example, we argue that the notion of?pronoun?
used in Rule 1 should be considered a parameter.
Thirdly, we had to find appropriatemethods for evaluating these claims.
We found that while the theory?s main claim about salienceand pronominalization, Rule 1?a preference for pronominalizing the backward-looking center(CB)?is verified with most instantiations, Constraint 1?a claim about (entity) coherence andCB uniqueness?is much more instantiation-dependent: It is not verified if the parameters areinstantiated according to very mainstream views (?vanilla instantiation?
), it holds only if indirectrealization is allowed, and is violated by between 20% and 25% of utterances in our corpus evenwith the most favorable instantiations.
We also found a trade-off between Rule 1, on the one hand,and Constraint 1 and Rule 2, on the other: Setting the parameters to minimize the violations oflocal coherence leads to increased violations of salience, and vice versa.
Our results suggest that?entity?
coherence?continuous reference to the same entities?must be supplemented at leastby an account of relational coherence.1.
MotivationsCentering theory (Joshi and Weinstein 1981; Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein 1983, 1995;Walker, Joshi, and Prince 1998b) is the component of Grosz and Sidner?s overall theory?
Department of Computer Science, Wivenhoe Park, Colchester CO4 35Q, U.K.
E-mail:poesio@essex.ac.uk.?
Department of Psychology, University of Durham, U.K.?
Department of Computer Science, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60607-7053, USA.E-mail: bdieugen@cs.uic.edu?
MITRE Corporation, 202 Burlington Road, Bedford, MA 01730-1428, USA.
E-mail:hitze@mitre.org.Submission received: 16 April 2002; Revised submission received: 3 September 2003; Accepted forpublication: 11 December 2003310Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3of attention and coherence in discourse (Grosz 1977; Sidner 1979; Grosz and Sidner1986) concerned with local coherence and salience, that is, coherence and saliencewithin a discourse segment.
A fundamental characteristic of centering is that it is bet-ter viewed as a linguistic theory than a computational one.
By this we mean that itsprimary aim is to make cross-linguistically valid claims about which discourses areeasier to process, abstracting away from specific algorithms for anaphora resolutionor anaphora generation (although many such algorithms are based on the theory).The result is a very different theory from those one usually finds in computationallinguistics.
In central papers such as Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995), no algo-rithms are provided to compute notions such as ?utterance,?
?previous utterance,??ranking,?
and ?realization?
that play a crucial role in the theory.
The researchersworking on centering argue that while these concepts play a central role in any theoryof discourse coherence and salience, their precise characterization is best left for sub-sequent research, indeed, that some of these concepts (e.g., ranking) might be definedin a different way for each language (Walker, Iida, and Cote 1994).
In other words,these notions should be viewed as parameters of centering.
This feature of the theoryhas inspired a great deal of research attempting to specify centering?s parameters fordifferent languages (Kameyama 1985; Walker, Iida, and Cote 1994; Di Eugenio 1998;Turan 1998; Strube and Hahn 1999).
Competing versions of the central definitionsand claims of the theory have also been proposed: For example, different definitionsof backward-looking center (CB) can be found in Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1983,1995) and Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion (1993).
As a result, a researcher wishing to testthe predictions of centering, or to use it for practical applications, is confronted witha large number of possible instantiations of the theory.The main goal of the work reported in this article was to explore the space ofparameter configurations, measuring the impact of different ways of setting the pa-rameters of centering on the theory?s claims.
This required specifying in an explicitway what centering?s main claims are; clearly identifying the parameters, not all ofwhich have previously been discussed in the literature; and developing appropriatemethods (and statistical tests) to carry out this evaluation.
The comparison betweeninstantiations was carried out by annotating a corpus of English texts from differentgenres with the information needed to test a variety of centering instantiations andusing this corpus to assess the extent to which the theory?s claims are verified once theparameters are set in a certain way.
The proponents of centering have clearly statedthat the aim of the theory is to identify preferences that make discourses easier to pro-cess; clearly, the best way to test such preferences is through behavioral experiments,and many aspects of the theory have in fact been tested this way (Hudson, Tanen-haus, and Dell 1986; Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion 1993; Brennan 1995).
But given theenormous number of possible ways of setting the theory?s parameters, a systematiccomparison can be made only by computational means.
A corpus-based evaluationhas other advantages, as well, among which is that it is perhaps the best way toidentify the aspects of the theory that need to be further specified, and the factorssuch as temporal coherence or stylistic variation that may interact with the prefer-ences expressed by centering.
(Also, knowing the extent to which real texts conformto centering preferences is an important goal in its own right.
)In previous corpus-based studies of centering (Walker 1989; Passonneau 1993;Byron and Stent 1998; Di Eugenio 1998; Kameyama 1998; Strube and Hahn 1999;Tetreault 2001), only a few instantiations of centering were compared.
The presentstudy is more systematic in that it considers a greater number of parameters, aswell as more parameter instantiations, including ?crossing?
instantiations in whichthe parameters are set according to proposals due to different researchers.
Only re-311Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theoryliable annotation techniques were used; we produced an annotation manual thatcan be used to extend our analysis to other data, as well as a companion Web site(http://cswww.essex.ac.uk/staff/poesio/cbc/) to allow readers to try out instantia-tions not discussed in this article.
(The Web site also contains the annotation manualand a technical report with a full discussion of all results.)
Last but not least, ourevaluation is arguably more neutral than in most previous studies in that, first of all,we are not proposing a new instantiation of the theory; and secondly, all parameterinstantiations were tested on the same data.The article is organized as follows.
We first review the basic concepts of the theory,discussing the three claims on which we focus (Constraint 1, Rule 1, and Rule 2) and theparameters used in their formulation.
We then discuss how our corpus was annotatedand how the annotation was used to compute violations of the three main claims.
InSection 4 we present our main results, which are discussed in Section 5.2.
Centering Theory and Its ParametersIt is not possible to discuss in this article the entire centering literature; we merelysummarize in this section some of this work in enough detail to allow the reader tofollow the discussion in the rest of the article.
For more details, we refer the readerto classic references such as Grosz, Johsi, and Weinstein (1995) and Walker, Joshi, andPrince (1998b) or the discussion of centering in Poesio and Stevenson (forthcoming).2.1 Motivations and Main IntuitionsCentering is simultaneously a theory of discourse coherence and of discourse salience.As a theory of coherence, it attempts to characterize entity-coherent discourses: dis-courses that are considered coherent because of the way discourse entities are intro-duced and discussed.1 At the same time, centering is also intended to be a theory ofsalience: that is, it attempts to predict which entities will be most salient at any giventime.The main claim about local coherence made in centering is that discourse segmentsin which successive utterances keep mentioning the same discourse entities are ?morecoherent?
than discourse segments in which different entities are mentioned.
Thishypothesis was formulated by Chafe (1976) and is backed by empirical evidence suchas Kintsch and van Dijk (1978) and Givon (1983).
In centering this hypothesis is furtherstrenghtened by proposing that every utterance has a unique ?main link?
with theprevious utterance: the CB.
Having a unique CB, it is claimed, considerably simplifiesthe complexity of the inferences required to integrate an utterance into the discourse(Joshi and Kuhn 1979; Joshi and Weinstein 1981).Centering?s first contention as far as local salience is concerned is that the dis-course entities realized by an utterance (more on realization below) are ranked: that is,that in each utterance some discourse entities are more salient than others.
This claim,as well, is a basic tenet of much work on discourse (Sidner 1979; Prince 1981; Givon1983; Gundel, Hedberg, and Zacharski 1993) and is supported by much psychologi-cal evidence (Hudson, Tanenhaus, and Dell 1986; Gernsbacher and Hargreaves 1988;Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion 1993; Stevenson, Crawley, and Kleinman 1994).1 Entity-based theories of coherence are so-called by contrast with relation-centered theories ofcoherence, such as those developed in Hobbs (1979) and Mann and Thompson (1988) and used in Fox(1987) and Lascarides and Asher (1993).
The earliest detailed entity-based theory of coherence we areaware of is by Kintsch and van Dijk (1978), who also explicitly mention the need to supplement suchtheories with a theory of relational coherence (more on this in Section 5)312Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3These claims about coherence and salience are linked by two further hypotheses:that the identity of the CB is crucially determined by the entities?
ranking and that theCB is most likely to be realized as a pronoun.
This assumption that a ?main entity?
or?topic?
or ?focus?
is the preferred interpretation of pronouns is commonly found intheories in the psychological (e.g., Sanford and Garrod 1981), computational (Sidner1979) and linguistic (Gundel, Hedberg, and Zacharski 1993) literature and is motivatedby evidence such as the contrast between examples (1) and (2):(1) a.
Something must be wrong with John.b.
He has been acting quite odd.
(He = John)c. He called up Mike yesterday.d.
John wanted to meet him quite urgently.
(2) a.
Something must be wrong with John.b.
He has been acting quite odd.
(He = John)c. He called up Mike yesterday.d.
He wanted to meet him quite urgently.Discourses (1) and (2) differ only only in their (d) sentences, but according toGrosz et al, (1d) is not as felicitous as (2d).
The reason, they argue, is that after the(c) utterances, the discourse entity John is more highly ranked than Mike, so it will bethe CB of the next utterance provided that it is realized in it; and given the preferencefor pronominalizing the CB, John should be pronominalized if anything else is.This link between pronominalization and the identity of the CB has been usedby Grosz et al to support the claim discussed above that utterances have a uniqueCB (contra, e.g., Sidner [1979] whose theory assumed two foci).
Grosz et al notethe contrast between continuations (3c)?
(3f) of the discourse initiated by utterances(3a)?
(3b):(3) a. Susan gave Betsy a pet hamster.b.
She reminded her that such hamsters were quite shy.c.
She asked Betsy whether she liked the gift.d.
Betsy told her that she really liked the gift.e.
Susan asked her whether she liked the gift.f.
She told Susan that she really liked the gift.Grosz et al argue that continuations (3c)?
(3f) are less and less acceptable, whereas ifSusan and Betsy were equally ranked after (3b), all variants should be equally accept-able.2.2 Terminology and Definitions2.2.1 Local Focus, Forward-Looking Centers, and Utterances.
A fundamental assump-tion underlying centering is that processing a discourse involves continuous updatesto the local attentional state, or local focus.
The local focus includes a set of forward-looking centers (CFs), which correspond to Sidner?s (1979) ?potential discourse foci?and can be viewed as mentions of discourse entities (Karttunen 1976; Webber 1978;Heim 1982; Kamp and Reyle 1993).
The local focus also contains information about therelative prominence or rank of these CFs.
The local focus gets updated after every ut-terance: In this update, the current CFs are replaced by new ones, and the CB changes,313Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theoryas well (see below).2 The set of CFs introduced in the local focus by utterance Ui ina discourse segment (DS) is indicated by CF(Ui,DS), generally abbreviated to CF(Ui).Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987) formalized the relationship between utterancesand CFs by means of one of their so-called constraints:3Constraint 2: Every element of CF(U,DS) must be realized in U.2.2.2 Ranking, Preferred Centers, and Backward-Looking Centers.
We already men-tioned two important claims of the theory: that forward-looking centers are ranked,and that because of this ranking, some CFs acquire particular prominence.
The rankingfunction is only required to be partial, but the most highly ranked CF realized by anutterance (when one exists) is called the Preferred Center (CP).
Ranking is also usedto characterize one of the CFs as the CB.
The CB is the closest concept in centeringto the traditional notion of ?topic?
(Sgall 1967; Chafe 1976; Sanford and Garrod 1981;Givon 1983; Vallduvi 1990; Gundel, Hedberg, and Zacharski 1993) and plays a cen-tral role in the theory?s claims about both coherence and salience.
Although in Grosz,Joshi, and Weinstein (1983), the CB was characterized only in intuitive terms, mostsubsequent work has been based on the definition below (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein1995), referred to as ?Constraint 3?
by Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987):Constraint 3 CB(Ui), the backward-looking center of utterance Ui, is the highest-ranked element of CF(Ui?1) that is realized in Ui.Notice that according to this definition, the computation of the CB depends exclusivelyon ranking and ?previous utterance,?
making these parameters crucially important forthe framework.42.2.3 Transitions.
The hypothesis that discourses are easier to process when successiveutterances are perceived as being ?about?
a unique discourse entity is formalized incentering in terms of a classification of utterances according to the type of transition(update) they induce in the local focus.
Many such classifications of transitions havebeen proposed; Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995) distinguish among three types oftransitions, depending on whether the backward-looking center of Ui?1 is maintainedor not in Ui and on whether CB(Ui) is also the most highly ranked entity (CP) of Ui:Center Continuation (CON): CB(Ui) = CB(Ui?1), and CB(Ui) is the most highlyranked CF (CP) of Ui (i.e., CP(Ui) = CB(Ui))Center Retaining (RET): CB(Ui) = CB(Ui?1), but CP(Ui) = CB(Ui)Center Shifting (SHIFT): CB(Ui?1) = CB(Ui)We will consider a few alternative classification schemes below, after discussing howthese classifications are used to formulate one of the core claims of centering, Rule 2.2 The hypothesis that discourse processing involves continuous updates to the discourse model also liesat the heart of so-called ?dynamic?
theories of discourse semantics (Heim 1982; Kamp and Reyle 1993).3 The order of presentation of constraints and rules followed here differs from that more familiar in thecentering literature.
This is because we want to distinguish between definitions and claims, and thethree constraints proposed by Brennan et al do not all have the same status: While Constraint 2 can beseen as a ?filter?
ruling out certain values of CF(Ui), Constraint 3 is a definition, and Constraint 1 anempirical claim.4 Other ways of defining the CB have been proposed.
We refer the interested reader to the longer reportand to the companion Web site.314Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 32.3 Main ClaimsIn the words of Grosz et al, the most fundamental claim of centering is that ?to theextent that discourse adheres to centering constraints, its coherence will increase andthe inference load placed upon the hearer will decrease?
(Grosz, Joshi, and Wein-stein 1995, page 210).
Grosz et al list seven such ?costraints,?
three of which can bedirectly evaluated.
Even though we are not following here the distinction between?constraints?
and ?rules?
introduced in Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987), wewill use for these three claims the names Brennan et al gave them, by which they arenow best known:Constraint 1 (Strong): All utterances of a segment except for the first have exactlyone CB.Rule 1 (GJW95): If any CF is pronominalized, the CB is.Rule 2 (GJW95): (Sequences of) continuations are preferred over (sequences of)retains, which are preferred over (sequences of) shifts.2.3.1 Constraint 1, Topic Uniqueness, and Entity Coherence.
If we view the CB asa formalization of the idea of ?topic?
(Vallduvi 1990; Gundel 1998; Hurewitz 1988;Miltsakaki 1999; Beaver 2004), Constraint 1 expresses, first and foremost, the originalclaim from Joshi and Kuhn (1979) and Joshi and Weinstein (1981) that discourses withexactly one (or no more than one) ?topic?
at each point are easier to process.
This viewcontrasts both with Sidner?s (1979) hypothesis that utterances may have two ?topics?and with theories such as Givon (1983), Alshawi (1987), Lappin and Leass (1994) andArnold (1998), which view ?topichood?
as a matter of degree and therefore allow foran arbitrary number of topics.In the strong form just presented, Constraint 1 is also a claim about local coher-ence.
It expresses a preference for discourses to be entity coherent: to continue talkingabout the same entities.
Each utterance in a segment should realize at least one of thediscourse entities realized in the previous utterance.
A weaker form of Constraint 1has also been suggested (e.g., Walker, Joshi, and Prince 1998a, footnote 2, page 3); thepreference for a unique CB is preserved, but not the preference for entity coherence.Constraint 1 (Weak): All utterances of a segment except for the first have at mostone CB.2.3.2 Rule 1 and Pronominalization.
Rule 1 is the main claim of centering aboutpronominalization.
In the version presented above, it states a preference for pronomi-nalizing the CB, if anything is pronominalized at all.
We also examined two alternativeformulations.
The original form of the claim in Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1983) wasas follows:Rule 1 (GJW83): If the CB of the current utterance is the same as the CB of theprevious utterance, a pronoun should be used.Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion (1993) proposed a much stronger form of the claim.
Theyfound that entities realized in certain positions in the sentence were read more slowlyunless pronominalized (repeated-name penalty [RNP]).5 This evidence led them to5 Gordon et al observed increased reading times when proper names were used instead of pronouns torealize an entity in subject position referring to an entity realized in first-mentioned or subject position.315Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theorypropose a more restrictive definition of CB (briefly, that the CB is the entity subject tothe RNP?for discussion, see the longer version of this article available on the Website) and a stronger form of Rule 1, requiring the CB (defined in this more restrictiveway) to be always pronominalized:Rule 1 (Gordon et al): The CB should be pronominalized.Although we will refer to this version as ?Gordon et al?s?
for brevity, readers shouldkeep in mind that because the definition of CB proposed by Gordon et al is morerestrictive, their version of Rule 1 is properly evaluated only using that definition.
(The results with this instantiation are discussed in the longer version of the articleavailabel on the Web site.
)2.3.3 Rule 2 and the Classification of Transitions.
Rule 2 is a claim about coherence, aswell: It states a preference for preserving the CB over changing it and for realizing it asthe most salient entity over changing its relative ranking.
This aspect of the theory hasreceived a lot of attention; several variants of this constraint have been proposed, aswell as many ways of classifying transitions.
We studied many alternative proposals.The version of Rule 2 presented in Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995) expressespreferences among sequences of transitions (e.g., CON-CON over SHIFT-SHIFT) ratherthan preferences for particular transitions.
This form of the constraint is in part mo-tivated by empirical results.
Di Eugenio (1998), for example, found that the relativedistribution of null and explicit pronouns in Italian depends on the previous transitionas well: in Center Continuations that follow a CON or a SHIFT, it is much more likelythat a null pronoun will be used, whereas in Center Continuations that follow a RETtransition, both null and explicit pronouns are equally likely.
Turan (1998) obtainedsimilar results for null and explicit pronouns in Turkish.Other researchers argue instead that the inferential load is evaluated utterance byutterance (Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987; Walker, Iida, and Cote 1994; Walker,Joshi, and Prince 1998a).
The version of Rule 2 proposed by Brennan et al is as follows:Rule 2 (Single Transitions): Transition states are ordered.
The CON transition ispreferred to the RET transition, which is preferred to the Smooth Shifttransition, which is preferred to the Rough Shift transition.This formulation of Rule 2 depends on a further distinction between two types ofSHIFT: Smooth Shift (SSH), when CB(Un) = CP(Un), and Rough-Shift (RSH), whenCB(Un) = CP(Un).
Transitions can then be classified along two dimensions, as in thefollowing table:CB(Un) = CB(Un?1) or CB(Un?1) = NIL CB(Un) = CB(Un?1)CB(Un) = CP(Un) Continue Smooth ShiftCB(Un) = CP(Un) Retain Rough ShiftFurther refinements of these classification schemes have been proposed.
Kameyama(1986) proposed a fourth transition type, Center Establishment (EST), for utterancesE.g., in Bruno was the bully of the neighborhood.
Bruno / He often taunted Tommy, the second sentence wouldbe read more slowly when Bruno was used than when He was used.316Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3that establish a CB after an utterance without one, such as the first utterance of a seg-ment.
Walker, Iida, and Cote (1994) argued that these utterances should be classifiedas Center Continuations, the idea being that even the first utterance of a segment doeshave a CB, but this CB is initially underspecified and is determined only when the sec-ond utterance is processed.
Notice that according to the strong version of Constraint1, the first utterance of a discourse segment is the only utterance allowed not to have aCB in a coherent discourse; hence, none of these classification schemes for transitionsincludes classes either for the inverse of Center Establishment, that we might call Ze-roing (ZERO) transition (a CB less utterance following one which does have a CB) orfor CB-less utterances following other CB-less ones (the NULL transition).Strube and Hahn (1999), like Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995), claim that infer-ential load is evaluated across sequences (pairs, in fact) of transitions but argue fora different way of evaluating the inferential load of utterances.
In their view, classi-fications of transitions such as those above do not reflect what should be one of thecrucial claims of the theory: that the CP of one utterance predicts the CB of the next.In order to formalize their view, they propose a different classification scheme, basedon the distinction between cheap and expensive transitions (Strube and Hahn 1999,page 332):?
A transition pair is cheap if the CB of the current utterance is correctlypredicted by the CP of the previous utterance, that is, if CB(Un) =CP(Un?1).?
A transition pair is expensive if CB(Un) = CP(Un?1).Strube and Hahn then propose a new version of Rule 2 based on this distinction:Rule 2 (Strube and Hahn): Cheap transition pairs are preferred to expensive ones.62.4 The Parameters of CenteringAlthough Grosz et al discussed possible definitions for the concepts used in the claimsabove??utterance,?
?previous utterance,?
?ranking,?
and ?realization?
?they didn?tsettle on a specific definition, even for English.
Similarly undefined is the notion of?pronominalization?
governed by Rule 1.
But without further specification of theseconcepts it is impossible to evaluate the claims above, just as it is not possible toevaluate the predictions of, say, ?government and binding theory?
without providingan explicit definition of ?command?
or ?argument?.
As a result, a considerable amountof research has been concerned with establishing the best specification for what are,essentially, parameters of the theory.
We briefly review some of these proposals in thissection.76 Kibble (2001) proposed a version of Rule 2 that further develops the ?decompositional?
view of Rule 2introduced by Brennan et al, while simultaneously incorporating Strube and Hahn?s intuition that?cheap?
transitions should be preferred.
Kibble formulates his version of Rule 2 as a series ofpreferences: for transitions that preserve the CB?that is, those such that CB(Un) = CB(Un?1) (he callsthese transitions cohesive), that identify CB(Un) with CP(Un), and/or that are cheap.
Code to test anearlier version of Kibble?s form of Rule 2 (Kibble 2000) has been incorporated in the scripts discussedlater in the article, and the results can be seen in the longer technical report accompanying this article,or from the companion Web site.
We will, however, omit a discussion of this version here, in part forreasons of space, in part because the final version of the rule in Kibble (2001) differs substantially fromthe original version that we evaluated.7 For more details, and for a discussion of the motivations behind these proposals, see the extendedversion of this article and Poesio and Stevenson (forthcoming).317Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theory2.4.1 Utterance and Previous Utterance.
In the early centering papers, utterances wereimplicitly identified with sentences.
Kameyama (1998), however, argued that suchidentification makes the number of potential antecedents of anaphoric expressionsmuch greater than if they were resolved clause by clause.
Furthermore, she notedthat this identification leads to problems with multiclausal sentences: for example,grammatical function ranking becomes difficult to compute, as a sentence may havemore than one subject.
Kameyama proposed that the local focus be updated after everytensed clause, not after every sentence, and classified tensed clauses into (1) utterancesthat constitute a ?permanent?
update of the local focus, such as coordinated clausesand adjuncts, and (2) embedded utterances that result in temporary updates that arethen ?popped?, much as the information introduced into discourse by subordinateddiscourse segments is popped according to Grosz and Sidner (1986).
According toKameyama, only a few types of clauses, such as the complements of certain verbs,are embedded.
For example, Kameyama proposes to break up (4) into utterances asfollows, and to treat each of these utterances, including subordinate clauses such as(U2) or (U5), as an update:(4) (u1) Her entrance in Scene 2 Act 1 brought some disconcerting applause(u2) even before she had sung a note.
(u3) Thereafter the audiencewaxed applause happy (u4) but discriminating operagoers reservedjudgment (u5) as her singing showed signs of strain.Experiments by Pearson, Stevenson, and Poesio (2000) confirmed that CFs introducedin main clauses are significantly more likely to be subsequently mentioned than CFsintroduced in complement clauses.
However, a semicontrolled study by Suri and Mc-Coy (1994) suggested that other types of clauses?specifically, adjunct clauses headedby after and before?are also ?embedded,?
not ?permanent updates?
as suggested byKameyama; these results were subsequently confirmed by Cooreman and Sanford(1996).
The status of other types of clauses is less clear.
Kameyama (1998) also pro-posed a tentative analysis of relative clauses, according to which they are temporarilytreated as utterances and update the local focus but are then merged with the embed-ding clause; she didn?t, however provide empirical support for this hypothesis.
Othertypes of subordinate clauses and parentheticals are not discussed in this literature.Strube (1998) and Miltsakaki (1999) question Kameyama?s identification of utter-ances with (tensed) clauses.
Miltsakaki (1999) argues, on the basis of data from Englishand Greek, that the local focus is updated only after every sentence and that only theCFs in the main clause are considered when establishing the CB.2.4.2 Realization.
Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995) simply say that what it means forutterance U to realize center C depends on the particular semantic theory one adopts.They consider two ways in which a discourse entity may be ?realized?
in an utteranceas required by Constraint 2.
Direct realization is when a noun phrase in the utterancerefers to that discourse entity.
Indirect realization is when one of the noun phrasesin the utterance is an associative reference to that discourse entity in the sense ofHawkins (1978),8 that is, an anaphoric expression that refers to an object which wasn?tmentioned before but is somehow related to an object that already has.
For example,in the following discourse:(5) (u1) John walked toward the house.
(u2) The door was open.8 Associative references are one type of bridging reference (Clark 1997).318Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3John, the house and the door are directly realized in the respective utterances; in addition,the house can be thought as being indirectly realized in (u2) by virtue of being referredto by the associative reference the door (see, e.g., the discussion in Grosz, Joshi, andWeinstein [1995] and Walker, Joshi, and Prince [1998b]).
Clearly, the computation ofthe CB is affected by which entities are considered to be ?realized?
in an utterance: In(5), for example, (u2) has a CB (the house) only if the house is considered to be realizedin (u2) by virtue of its being associated with the door.
To our knowledge, the effect ofthese alternative notions of realization on the predictions of the theory has not beenpreviously studied, even though theories of focusing such as Sidner?s (1979) do allowthe (discourse) focus to be realized in an utterance in these cases, and the issue is oftenmentioned in discussions of centering.A related issue is whether empty realizations, or traces, should count as realiza-tions of an entity.
Many theories of grammar hypothesize that morphologically nullelements occur in the syntactic structure underlying a variety of constructions, includ-ing control constructions as in (6a), reduced relatives as in (6b), and even coordinatedverb phrases (VP) as in (6c):(6) a. John wanted (?
to buy a house).b.
John bought a house (?
abandoned by its previous occupiers).c.
John bought a house and (?
promptly demolished it).If, for example, the coordinated VP in (6c) is considered a separate utterance, whetheror not it contains a realization of John is going to determine whether or not it has aCB.
To our knowledge, morphologically null elements have been considered in thecentering literature only for languages other than English.An issue that has been raised in the centering literature (e.g., Walker 1993; DiEugenio 1998; Byron and Stent 1998) is whether the CF list contains only entitiesrealized as third-person noun phrases (NPs), or also the entities realized as first- andsecond-person NPs.
Walker (1993) suggests that deictic entities are beyond the purviewof centering; however, in example (7), neither utterance (u2) nor utterance (u3) wouldhave a CB if second-person pronoun you is not counted as introducing an entity inthe CF list.9(7) (u1) You should not use PRODUCT-Z(u2) if you are pregnant of breast-feeding.
(u3) Whilst you are receiving PRODUCT-Z .
.
.2.4.3 Ranking.
Perhaps the most discussed parameter of centering, at least in theversions of the theory that accept the definition of CB specified by Constraint 3, isthe ranking function.
Most researchers working on centering, including Grosz et al,assume that several factors play a role in determining the relative ranking of forward-looking centers; in fact, Walker, Iida, and Cote (1994) and Walker, Joshi, and Prince(1998a) claim that the factors affecting ranking may not be the same in all languages.9 According to Walker, Joshi, and Prince (1998a), in the original version of Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein(1995), which appeared in 1986, Grosz et al provided a more explicit definition of realization:An utterance U realizes a center c if c is an element of the situation described by U, or c isthe semantic interpretation of some subpart of U.With this definition, all of the cases considered above?the anchors of associative references, traces, andthe entities realized as first- and second-person pronouns?would be considered as realized by anutterance.319Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryNevertheless, most versions of the theory developed since Kameyama (1985, 1986) andGrosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1986) have assumed that grammatical function plays themain role in determining the order among forward-looking centers, at least for English.Specifically, Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995) claim that subjects are ranked morehighly than objects, which are ranked more highly than other grammatical positions:SUBJ ?
OBJ ?
OTHERS (see also Kameyama 1986; Hudson, Tanenhaus, and Dell 1986).Slightly different ranking functions based on grammatical function were proposed byBrennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987) (who made a further distinction between objectsand indirect objects), by Walker, Iida, Cote (1994) for Japanese, and by Turan (1998)for Turkish.
There is quite a lot of psychological support for at least the part of thisclaim stating that entities realized as subjects are more salient than entities realized inother grammatical functions (Hudson, Tanenhaus, and Dell 1986; Gordon, Grosz, andGillion 1993; Brennan 1995; Hudson-D?Zmura and Tanenhaus 1998).Other factors affecting ranking have been considered as well.
Rambow (1993)proposed that a number of facts about scrambling in German could be explained ifranking in German were to be determined by surface order of realization.
The ideathat order of mention affects salience is well supported by psychological evidence;for example, the results of probe experiments by Gernsbacher and Hargreaves (1998)suggest that the first-mentioned discourse entity in a sentence is the most salient.
Theinteraction of order of mention with grammatical function has also been studied.
Asmentioned above, Gordon, Grosz and Gillion (1993) observed a repeated name penaltyfor CFs in subject position coreferring with an entity previously introduced.
This effectwas observed both when the antecedent was in subject position and when it was thefirst-mentioned entity in a nonsubject position (as in In Lisa?s opinion, he shouldn?t havedone that), suggesting that first-mentioned CFs are as highly ranked as subjects.Strube and Hahn (1999) argue that in German, the rank of discourse entities isdetermined by the position they hold in Prince?s (1981, 1992) givenness hierarchy.Specifically, Strube and Hahn argue that hearer-old entities rank higher than mediatedentities, which and in turn rank higher than hearer-new entities: HEARER-OLD ?MEDIATED ?
HEARER-NEW.10 Order of mention also plays a role in their ranking:Within each category, the entities realized earlier in the sentence are ranked morehighly.Finally, Sidner?s original (1979) claim that ranking depended on thematic roles,abandoned in the early versions of centering, was revisited by Cote (1998).
This view issupported by psychological work on ?implicit causality?
verbs (Caramazza et al 1997)as well as work by Stevenson, Crawley, and Kleinman (1994), and Pearson, Stevenson,and Poesio (2001).
In particular, there is evidence that with certain verbs, the normalpreference for subjects to rank higher than their objects is reversed, although thesepreferences are modified by other factors such as order of mention, type of connective,and animacy (Stevenson, Crawley, and Kleinman 1994; Stevenson et al 2000; Pearson,Stevenson, and Poesio 2001).2.4.4 R1-Pronouns.
Rule 1 states that if any CF is pronominalized, the CB is, butthe theory does not explicitly specify which types of ?pronouns?
are covered by thisrule.
It seems clear that realization as a third-person singular pronoun does count;that is, if the choice is between using a third-person singular pronoun to realize a10 Strube and Hahn?s hearer-old entities include Prince?s evoked (= discourse old) and unused entities,which are entities such as Margaret Thatcher that are supposed to be part of shared knowledge.Mediated entities are the entities falling in Prince?s categories inferrable, containing inferrable, andanchored brand-new.320Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3CB or another CF, the CB should be chosen.
We also saw that in languages such asItalian, Japanese, and Turkish, the preferred realizations of CBs are morphologicallynull elements (Kameyama 1986; Walker, Iida, Cote 1994; Turan 1998; Di Eugenio 1998).But should an utterance in English count as verifying the rule if a CF is realized as athird-person pronoun, and the CB as a trace?
Or if the CB is realized with a full NP,but a second CF is realized with a demonstrative pronoun?
And what about first- andsecond-person pronouns?
The precise characterization of the (sub)class of pronounssubject to Rule 1, which we will call R1-pronouns, is clearly an essential aspect of thetheory, yet to the best of our knowledge, no proposals in this regard can be found inthe centering literature.2.5 Empirical Support for, and Applications of, CenteringCentering has served as the theoretical foundation for a lot of work in linguistics,natural language processing (NLP), and psychology.
This includes annotation stud-ies testing the claims of the theory for languages including English, German, Hindi,Italian, Japanese, and Turkish (e.g., Kameyama 1985; Passonneau 1993; Walker, Iida,and Cote 1994; Di Eugenio 1998; Turan 1998) and several papers in (Walker, Joshi,and Prince (1998b).
The claims about pronominalization made in centering have beenapplied to develop algorithms both for anaphora resolution (Brennan, Friedman, andPollard 1987; Strube and Hahn 1999; Tetreault 2001) and for sentence planning (Dale1992; Henschel, Cheng, and Poesio 2000); this work can be viewed as providing anevaluation of claims such as Rule 1.
Ideas from centering, and in particular Rule 2, areincreasingly found useful in text planning (McKeown 1985; Kibble and Power 2000;Knott et al 2001; Karamanis 2003).We have already seen that some predictions of the theory have also been testedwith psychological techniques.
In many of these experiments, differences in process-ing pronominal references in a sentence in a sentence to entities with different ranks(according to a particular instantiation of the theory) were observed: Hudson, for ex-ample, observed that pronominal references to entities introduced in subject positionin the previous sentence are interpreted more quickly than nonpronominal referencesor references to nonsubjects (Hudson, Tanenhaus, and Dell 1986; Hudson-D?Zmuraand Tanenhaus 1998).
And we already mentioned that Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion(1993) identified a processing time slowdown, the RNP, when NPs in subject positionreferring to entities introduced in subject or first-mentioned position in the previoussentence are not pronominalized.However, the discussion in this section should have made it clear just how manyparameters the theory has and in how many different ways they can be instantiated.To our knowledge, no previous study has attempted to analyze in a systematic wayhow varying the instantiation of more than one of these parameters affects the claimsof the theory, especially for combinations of parameter settings not considered in theoriginal papers.
This analysis is the goal of the work discussed here.3.
A Corpus-Based Comparison of Centering?s InstantiationsGiven the many ways in which the parameters of centering can be set, the only feasibleway to make a systematic comparison between the theory?s ?instantiations?
is bycomputational means.
That is, running computer simulations of the process of localfocus update using an annotated corpus and comparing the results obtained underdifferent instantiations.
The evaluation principle we use for this comparison is thenumber of ?violations?
of the theory?s claims resulting when the parameters are setin a certain way (e.g., whether pronominalization choices are in accordance with Rule321Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theory1).
In this section we discuss how we set about performing such comparison, the datawe used, our annotation methods, and how the annotation was used.3.1 Evaluating the Claims of Centering against a CorpusA preliminary question we had to address is what are in fact the main claims of thetheory.
As discussed in Section 2, of the seven claims mentioned in Grosz, Joshi, andWeinstein (1995), Constraint 1, Rule 1, and Rule 2 are the ones that can actually beverified using a corpus; we concentrated on these.
Because several variants of thesethree claims have been proposed, we evaluated a few of these variants as well.11The second important question is how these three claims are meant to be inter-preted and what we can expect a corpus to tell us about them.
The proponents ofcentering are quite clear that the theory does not state ?hard?
facts about language,that is, the kind of facts whose violation leads to ungrammaticality judgments.
Con-straint 1, Rule 1, and Rule 2 are meant to be preferences which, when followed, leadto texts that are easier to process.12 The mere presence of a few exceptions to a claimdoes not, therefore, count as a falsification.
For one thing, we should expect centeringpreferences to interact with other constraints (a point not emphasized enough in thecentering literature).
And for another, there may be no way of expressing a particularpiece of information without violating some such preferences.13 So at best, we canexpect the three claims to be verified in a statistical sense: that is, that the numberof utterances that verify such claims will be significantly higher than the number ofutterances that violate them?and in fact, we may find that for some claims, evenstatistical significance will not be achieved.
As a result, we evaluated each claim usingstatistical tests; the tests we used are the sign test for Constraint 1 and Rule 1, and thePage test for Rule 2 (Siegel and Castellan 1988).It is also important to keep in mind that a corpus cannot tell us whether ?vi-olations?
actually result in processing difficulties: This can be determined only bybehavioral studies such as reading-time experiments.
So we should make it absolutelyclear that minimizing violations cannot and should not be the only deciding factor intheorizing about centering.
Nevertheless, the combinatorics of the problem make it im-possible to compare the parameter instantiations in any other way.
Furthermore, thisform of evaluation is also the most systematic way to identify other preferences andconstraints that may interact with centering.
We return to these issues in Section 5.3.2 The DataThe data used in this work are texts from the GNOME corpus, which currently in-cludes texts from three domains.
The museum subcorpus consists of descriptions ofmuseum objects and brief texts about the artists who produced them.14 The pharma-ceutical subcorpus is a selection of leaflets providing patients with legally mandatory11 In this version of the article, we assume that the CB is defined by Constraint 3.
For the results withalternative definitions of CB, see the extended technical report or the companion Web site.12 Beaver (2004) argues?correctly, in our opinion?that in one of the best-known pronoun resolutionalgorithms based on centering, that proposed by Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987), Rule 1 iseffectively used as a hard constraint, a problem fixed by Beaver?s own optimality-theoreticreformulation of the algorithm.
It is nevertheless quite clear that in the theory, Rule 1 has the status ofa preference.13 This point is especially important from an NLG perspective: see, e.g., Karamanis (2003).
We will returnto this issue in Section 5.14 The museum subcorpus extends the corpus collected to support the ILEX and SOLE projects at theUniversity of Edinburgh.
ILEX generates Web pages describing museum objects on the basis of theperceived status of its user?s knowledge and of the objects she has previously looked at (Oberlander etal.
1998) The SOLE project ILEX with concept-to-speech abilities, using linguistic information to controlintonation (Hitzeman et al 1998).322Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3information about their medicines.15 The GNOME corpus also includes tutorial dia-logues from the Sherlock corpus collected at the University of Pittsburgh (Di Eugenio,Moore, and Paolucci 1997).
Each subcorpus contains about 6,000 NPs.
Texts from thefirst two domains were used for the main experiments reported here.
The third sub-corpus was used for the segmentation experiments discussed in the extended technicalreport available on the Web site.The data used for this study have two characteristics that make them of particularinterest.
First of all, they cover genres not previously considered in studies on centeringand more similar to those that ?real?
NLP applications have to contend with.
At thesame time, they are strongly entity-centered (see, e.g., Knott et al[2001] for an analysisof the museum data), so the hypotheses about coherence formulated in centering arelikely to play an important part in the way these texts are constructed.3.3 AnnotationThe previous corpus-based investigations of centering theory we are aware of (Walker1989; Passonneau 1993, 1998; Byron and Stent 1998; Di Eugenio 1998; Hurewitz 1998;Kameyama 1998; Strube and Hahn 1999) were all carried out by a single annotatorannotating her or his corpus according to her or his own subjective judgment.
One ofour goals was to use for this study only information that could be annotated reliably(Passonneau and Litman 1993; Carletta 1996), as we believe this will make our resultseasier to replicate.
The price we paid to achieve replicability is that we couldn?t testall proposals about the computation of centering parameters proposed in the litera-ture, especially those about segmentation and about ranking, as discussed below.
Theannotation followed a detailed manual, available on the companion Web site.
Eightpaid annotators were involved in the reliability studies and the annotation.
In thefollowing we briefly discuss the information that we were able to annotate, what wedidn?t annotate, and the problems we encountered; for more details, we refer readersto the extended version of the article and the Web site.A systematic comparison among different ways of setting the parameters wouldbe prohibitively expensive with traditional psychological methods, but it?s not easyto do with corpus analysis, either.
Obviously, it can?t be done by directly annotating?utterances?
or ?CB?
according to one way of fixing the parameters, as has been donein most previous studies of centering theory (Byron and Stent 1998; Di Eugenio 1998;Kameyama 1998; Passonneau 1993; Walker 1989).
Instead, we annotated our corpuswith the primitive concepts used by different instantiations of the theory, that is, in-formation that has been claimed by one or the other instantiation of centering to playa role in the definitions of its basic notions.
This includes, for example, how sentencesbreak up into clauses and subclausal units; grammatical function; and anaphoric re-lations, including bridging references.
An automatic script uses this information tocompute utterances, their CF ranking, and their CB, according to a particular way ofsetting the parameters, and to compute statistics relevant to the three claims accordingto that instantiation.3.3.1 Utterances.
In order to evaluate the definitions of utterance proposed in theliterature (sentences versus finite clauses), as well as the different proposals concerningthe ?previous utterance?
discussed above, we marked all spans of text that might beclaimed to update the local focus.
This includes sentences (defined as all units of text15 The leaflets in the pharmaceutical subcorpus are a subset of the collection of all patient leaflets in theUnited Kingdom, which was digitized to support the ICONOCLAST project at the University ofBrighton, developing tools to support multilingual generation (Scott, Power, and Evans 1998).323Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theoryending with a period, a question mark, or an exclamation point) as well as what wecalled (discourse) units.
Units include clauses (defined as sequences of text containinga verbal complex, all its obligatory arguments, and all postverbal adjuncts) as well asother sentence subconstituents that might independently update the local focus, suchas parentheticals, preposed prepositional phrases (PPs), and (the second element of)coordinated VPs.16Sentences have one attribute, stype, specifying whether the sentence is declarative,interrogative, imperative, or exclamative.
The attributes of units include?
utype: whether the unit is a main clause, a relative clause, an appositive,a parenthetical, etc.?
verbed: whether the unit contains a verb or not.?
finite: for verbed units, whether the verb is finite or not.Marking up sentences proved to be quite easy; marking up units, on the other hand,required extensive annotator training.
The agreement on identifying the boundariesof units, using the kappa statistic discussed in Carletta (1996), was ?
= .9 (for twoannotators and 500 units); the agreement on features (two annotators and at least 200units) was as follows: utype: ?
= .76; verbed: ?
= .9; finite: ?
= .81.
In total, the textsused for the main study contain 505 sentences and more than 1,000 units, including900 finite clauses3.3.2 NPs.
Our instructions for identifying NP markables derive from those proposedin the MATE scheme for annotating anaphoric relations (Poesio, Bruneseaux, and Ro-mary 1999), in turn derived from DRAMA (Passonneau 1997) and MUC-7 (Chinchorand Sundheim 1995).
In the GNOME corpus, NPs are marked by <ne> (?Nominal en-tity?)
elements.
In total, the texts used for this study contain 3,345 NPs.
These include586 pronouns, among which are 217 third-person personal and possessive pronouns,23 demonstratives, and 308 second-person pronouns; 1,290 definite NPs, including 554the-NPs, 250 possessive NPs, and 391 proper nouns; 1,119 indefinite NPs, including745 bare NPs and 269 a-NPs; and 350 other NPs, including 117 quantified NPs and114 coordinated NPs.We annotated 14 attributes of <ne> elements specifying their syntactic, semantic,and discourse properties (Poesio 2000).
Those relevant to the study discussed hereinclude the following:?
The np type, cat, with values such as a-np, that-np, the-np, and pers-pro.?
The agreement features num, per, and gen, used to identify contexts inwhich the antecedent of a pronoun could be identified unambiguously.?
The grammatical function gf.
Our instructions for this feature are derivedfrom those used in the FRAMENET project (Baker, Fillmore, and Lowe1998); see also http://www.icsi.berkeley.edu/?framenet/.
The values aresubj, obj, predicate (used for postverbal objects in copular sentences, suchas This is (a production watch)), there-obj (for postverbal objects inthere-sentences), comp (for indirect objects), adjunct (for the argument ofPPs modifying VPs), gen (for nps in determiner position in possessiveNPs), np-compl, np-part, np-mod, adj-mod, and no-gf (for nps occurring bythemselves?eg., in titles).16 Our instructions for marking up such elements benefited from the discussion of clauses in Quirk andGreenbaum (1973) and from Marcu?s (1999) proposals for discourse units annotation.324Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3The agreement values for these attributes are as follows: cat: .9; gen: .89; gf: .85; num:.84; per: .9.
We encountered problems even with supposedly ?easy?
information suchas number and gender, but especially so with semantic attributes (see the annotationmanual available on the Web site).
We were, however, able to mark up the attributesrelevant for this study in a reliable fashion.
One exception is that we weren?t ableto reach acceptable agreement on a feature of NPs often claimed to affect ranking,thematic roles (Sidner 1979; Cote 1988; Stevenson, Crawley, and Kleinman 1994); theagreement value in this case was ?
= .35.
As a result, we were not able to evaluateranking functions based on thematic roles.3.3.3 Anaphoric Information.
In order to determine whether a CF of an utterance isrealized directly or indirectly in the following utterance, it is necessary to annotatethe anaphoric relations that CFs enter into, including both identity relations and, inorder to compute indirect realization, associative relations (Hawkins 1978).
This typeof annotation raises, however, a number of difficult (and sometimes unresolved) se-mantic issues (Poesio 2004).
As part of the MATE and GNOME projects, an extensiveanalysis of previously existing schemes for so-called ?coreference annotation,?
suchas the MUC-7 scheme, was carried out, highlighting a number of problems with suchschemes, ranging from issues with the annotation methodology to semantic issues.Although some of these schemes, like DRAMA, allow the marking of associative re-lations, none of them analyze which among such relations can be reliably annotated(Poesio, Bruneseaux, and Romary 1999; Poesio 2000).
The semantic problems withthese schemes include the inappropriate use of the term coreference to cover semanticrelations such as that between an intensional entity like the temperature that may takedifferent values at different time points and these values (as in the price of aluminumsiding rose from $3.85 to $4.02) or between a quantifier and a variable the quantifierbinds, in which neither may corefer (as in none of the meetings resulted in an agreementbetween its participants (van Deemter and Kibble 2000; Poesio 2004).
In MATE, a generalscheme was developed which includes a fine-grained repertoire of semantic relations,such as binding and function value (Poesio, Bruneseaux, and Romary 1999).
For theGNOME corpus, we adopted a simplified version of the MATE scheme, as for ourpurposes it?s not essential to mark all semantic relations between entities introducedby a text, but only those that may establish a ?link?
between two utterances.
So forexample, it is in general unnecessary in our case to mark a relation between the subjectof a copular sentence and its predicate (e.g., between the price of aluminum siding andeither $3.85 or $4.02 in the example above).
Also, our texts do not include any caseof bound anaphora, so it was not necessary to offer this option to our annotators.In the GNOME corpus, anaphoric information is marked by means of a special?ante?
element; the ?ante?
element itself specifies the index of the anaphoric expression(a ?ne?
element) and the type of semantic relation (e.g., identity), whereas one or moreembedded ?anchor?
elements indicate possible antecedents.17 (See (8).
)(8) <unit finite=?finite-yes?
id=?u227?><ne id=?ne546?
gf=?subj?> The drawing of<ne id=?ne547?
gf=?np-compl?>the corner cupboard </ne></ne><unit finite=?no-finite?
id=?u228?>, or more probably<ne id=?ne548?
gf=?no-gf?> an engraving of<ne id=?ne549?
gf=?np-compl?> it </ne></ne>17 The presence of more than one ?anchor?
element indicates that the anaphoric expression is ambiguous.325Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theory</unit>,...</unit><ante current="ne549" rel="ident"> <anchor ID="ne547"> </ante>Work such as Sidner (1979) and Strube and Hahn (1999) as well as our own prelimi-nary analysis, suggested that indirect realization can play a crucial role in maintainingthe CB.
However, previous attempts at marking anaphoric information, particularlyin the context of the MUC initiative, suggested that while it?s fairly easy to achieveagreement on identity relations, marking up associative relations is quite hard; thiswas confirmed by studies such as Poesio and Vieira (1998).
For these reasons, and toreduce the annotators?
work, we marked only a few types of relations, and we specifiedpriorities.
Besides identity (IDENT), we marked up only three associative relations: setmembership (ELEMENT), subset (SUBSET), and ?generalized possession?
(POSS), whichincludes part-of relations as well as ownership relations.
We marked only relationsbetween objects realized by noun phrases and not, for example, anaphoric referencesto actions, events, or propositions implicitly introduced by clauses or sentences.
Wealso gave strict instructions to our annotators concerning how much to mark.
(Seethe annotation manual available on the Web site.)
Furthermore, we specified prefer-ences: For example, in Francois, the Dauphin, the embedding NP would be chosen asan antecedent, rather than the NP in appositive position.As expected, we found a reasonable (if not perfect) agreement on identity relations.In our most recent analysis (two annotators marking the anaphoric relations between200 NPs) we observed no real disagreements; 79.4% of the relations were marked upby both annotators; 12.8% by only one of them; and in 7.7% of the cases, one of theannotators marked up a closer antecedent than the other.18 With associative references,limiting the relations did curtail the disagreements among annotators (only 4.8% of therelations are actually marked differently), but only 22% of bridging references weremarked in the same way by both annotators; 73.17% of relations were marked by onlyone or the other annotator.
So reaching agreement on this information involved severaldiscussions between annotators and more than one pass over the corpus (Poesio 2000).3.3.4 Segmentation.
According to Grosz and Sidner (1986), centering is meant to cap-ture preferences only within discourse segments.
A proper evaluation of the claims ofthe theory would therefore require a corpus in which discourse segments have beenidentified.
Unfortunately, discourse segments are difficult to identify reliably (Passon-neau and Litman 1993), and Grosz and Sidner (1986) do not provide a specificationof discourse intentions explicit enough that it can be used to identify the intentionalstructure of texts?which, according to Grosz and Sidner, determines their segmenta-tion.
As a result, only preliminary attempts at annotating texts according to Grosz andSidner?s theory have been made.For this reason, most previous corpus-based studies of centering either ignoredsegmentation or used heuristics such as those proposed by Walker (1989): Considerevery paragraph as a separate discourse segment, except when its first sentence con-tains a pronoun in subject position or a pronoun whose agreement features are not18 In previous work (Poesio and Vieira 1998) we came to the conclusion that kappa, while appropriatewhen the number of categories is fixed and relatively small, is problematic for anaphoric reference,when neither condition applies, and may result in inflated values of agreement.326Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3matched by any other CF in the same sentence.
We tested only heuristic methods aswell, using the layout structure of the texts as a rough indicator of discourse structure.In this article we discuss only the results with the heuristic proposed by Walker.
Inthe extended technical report available on the Web site, we discuss the results withother segmentation heuristics, as well as further results with the tutorial dialoguessubdomain of the GNOME corpus, independently annotated according to relationaldiscourse analysis (Moser and Moore 1996), a technique inspired by Grosz and Sid-ner?s proposals, from which a Grosz and Sidner?like segmentation was extracted asproposed in Poesio and Di Eugenio (2001).3.4 Automatic Computation of Centering InformationThe annotated corpus is used by Perl scripts that automatically compute the center-ing data structures (utterances, CFs, and CBs) according to the particular parameterinstantiation chosen, find violations of Constraint 1, Rule 1, and Rule 2 (according toseveral versions of Rule 1 and Rule 2), and evaluate the claims using the statisticaltests.
The behavior of the scripts is controlled by a number of parameters, includingCBdef: which definition of CB should be used.
(All the results discussed in thisarticle were computed using the definition in Constraint 3.
)uttdef: identify utterances with sentences, finite clauses, or verbed clauses.previous utterance: treat adjunct clauses Kameyama-style or Suri and McCoy-style.realization: allow only direct realization, or allow indirect realization as well.CF-filter: treat all NPs as introducing CFs, or exclude certain classes.
At the mo-ment it is possible to omit first- and second-person NPs and/or NPs inpredicative position (e.g., a policeman in John is a policeman).rank: rank CFs according to grammatical function, linear order, a combination ofthe two as in Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion (1993), or information status asin Strube and Hahn (1999).prodef: consider as R1-pronouns only third-person personal pronouns (it, they),or include also demonstrative pronouns (that, these), and/or the second-person pronoun (you).segmentation: identify segments using Walker?s heuristics, or with paragraphs,sections, or whole texts.Among the many other script parameters whose effect will not be discussed here wewill just mention those that determine whether implicit anaphors in bridging refer-ences should be treated as CFs, the relative ranking of entities in complex NPs, andhow to handle ?preposed?
adjunct clauses.
(See the extended technical report on theWeb site.)
The algorithm used to compute statistics concerning violations of the claimsis fairly straightforward, and we will therefore omit it here; the interested reader canfind a discussion in the extended technical report.
The one additional complication thatwe need to mention here is relative pronouns.
As it could be argued that the decisionto generate a relative pronoun is primarily controlled by grammatical considerations,we attempted to ignore them as much as possible, in the following sense.
Our scriptsdo not count an utterance as a violation/verification of Rule 1 from Grosz, Joshi, andWeinstein (1995) if the only ?pronoun?
realizing a non-CB is a relative pronoun, orthe CB is realized only by a relative pronoun.
What this means in practice is that the327Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryTable 1Number of utterances and CFs with the vanilla instantiation.Museum Pharmaceutical TotalNumber of utterances 430 577 1,007Number of utterances that are segment boundaries 91 134 225Number of CFs 1,731 1,308 3,039number of utterances examined to evaluate Rule 1 is generally less than the numberof utterances with a CB, as we will see shortly.4.
Main ResultsGiven the number of parameters, it is difficult, if not impossible, to discuss the resultswith all instantiations.
Instead, we begin by discussing the results with what we callthe ?vanilla instantiation,?
based on the settings for the parameters most often usedin discussions of the theory.
We then examine the results obtained by varying thedefinitions of utterance and realization.
After establishing the ?best?
values for theseparameters, we consider the effect of alternative ranking functions.
Additional resultsare discussed in the extended technical report available on the companion Web site.Readers who want to try out instantiations not discussed here should visit the Website.4.1 The Vanilla InstantiationWhat we call the ?vanilla instantiation?
is not an instantiation actually proposed inthe literature, but an attempt to come as close as possible to a ?mainstream?
instanti-ation of centering by blending proposals from Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995) andBrennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987) and incorporating additional suggestions fromKameyama (1998) and Walker, Joshi, and Prince (1998a).
The vanilla instantiation isbased on the definition of CB from Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995) and uses gram-matical function for ranking, as proposed there and in Brennan, Friedman, Pollard(1987).
Because Grosz et al do not provide a definition of utterance, the vanilla instan-tiation incorporates the hypothesis from Kameyama (1998) that utterances are finiteclauses and the characterization of ?previous utterance?
proposed there.19 Concerningrealization, in the vanilla instantiation only third-person NPs introduce CFs, and adiscourse entity counts as ?realized?
in an utterance only if it is explicitly mentioned.For the purposes of Rule 1, we mainly studied a ?strict?
definition of R1-pronounincluding only personal (and possessive) pronouns and relative pronouns and traces(see Walker, Joshi, and Prince [1998a], page 4), but we also considered a ?broader?definition including the demonstrative pronouns this, that, these, and those.
Relativeclauses are assumed to include a link to the NP they modify, possibly not explicitlyrealized.
The segmentation heuristic proposed by Walker (1989) is adopted.
With theparameters set in this way, the number of utterances and CFs in our corpus is asshown in Table 1.19 We simplified Kameyama?s hypothesis about relative clauses by considering only instantiations inwhich they were treated as utterances both ?locally?
and ?globally?, and ones in which they weren?t.328Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3Table 2Utterances and CBs with the vanilla instantiation.Museum Pharmaceutical Total PercentageNumber of times at least one CF(Un) is realized in Un+1 195 162 357 (35.4%)Utterances that satisfy Constraint 1 (have exactly one CB) 189 157 346 (34.4%)Utterances with more than one CB 6 5 11 (1.1%)Utterances without a CB but are segment boundary 67 96 163 (16.2%)Utterances without a CB 168 319 487 (48.4%)4.1.1 Constraint 1.
The statistics relevant to Constraint 1 (that utterances have exactlyone/at most one CB) are shown in Table 2.
This table clearly indicates that the weakversion of Constraint 1 (Weak C1) is likely to be verified with the vanilla instantiation.Even without counting segment boundaries, Weak C1 is verified by 833 utterancesout of 1,007 (82.7%) and violated by only 11 (1.1%): The chance that Weak C1 willnot hold with a different sample is p ?
0.001 by the sign test.
(We will henceforthwrite +833, ?11 to indicate numbers of verifiers and violators.)
On the other hand,the strong version of C1?that every utterance has exactly one CB?is not likely tohold with this instantiation: In our corpus, only 346 utterances (34.4%) have exactlyone CB, whereas 498 utterances (49.4%) have zero or more than one CB.
With +346,?498, the chance of error in rejecting the null hypothesis that Strong C1 doesn?t holdis obviously much higher than 10%.
The chance of error doesn?t go below 10% evenif we count the 163 utterances that do not contain references to CFs introduced in theprevious utterance but are segment boundaries and therefore are not governed by theconstraint.
In other words, if the vanilla instantiation were the ?right?
way of settingthe parameters, we would have to conclude that in the genres contained in our corpus,utterances are very likely to have a unique CB, but entity coherence does not play amajor role in ensuring that a text is coherent: only 35.4% of utterances in our corpuswould be ?entity-coherent,?
that is, would contain an explicit mention to an entityrealized in the previous finite clause.The following example illustrates why there are so many violations of StrongC1 with the vanilla instantiation.
If we identify utterances with finite clauses, thetwo sentences in (9) break up into five utterances, and only the last of these can beconsidered in any sense to directly refer to the set of egg vases introduced in (u1).20(9) (u1) These ?egg vases?
are of exceptional quality: (u2) basketwork basessupport egg-shaped bodies (u3) and bundles of straw form the handles,(u4) while small eggs resting in straw nests serve as the finial foreach lid.
(u5) Each vase is decorated with inlaid decoration: .
.
.Clearly, there are two ways of ?fixing?
this problem.
One is to claim that utterancesare best identified with sentences, in which case we would have only two utterancesin this example, one for each sentence.
The other is to allow for indirect realization:20 In fact, the anaphoric relation here is not identity; rather, the set of egg vases serves as domainrestriction for the quantifier in (u5).
We were not able to mark this distinction reliably.329Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theory(u2)?
(u4) all contain implicit references to the egg vases, and therefore all will have aCB if indirect realization is allowed.
Both possibilities are considered below.The fact that 11 utterances (1.1%) in the corpus have more than one CB (i.e., theyviolate Weak C1 as well) is also worth noticing.
The reason for the violation is thatin ?classic?
centering, ranking is only required to be a partial order (see, e.g., Walker,Joshi, and Prince 1998a page 3),21 so when two CFs with the same rank in Ui are bothrealized in Ui+1, both become the CB.
This is illustrated in (10), where we show theXML markup so that the attributes of elements are visible:(10) <unit finite=?finite-yes?
id=?u227?><ne id=?ne546?
gf=?subj?>The drawing of<ne id=?ne547?
gf=?np-compl?>the corner cupboard</ne></ne><unit finite=?no-finite?
id=?u228?>, or more probably<ne id=?ne548?
gf=?no-gf?> an engraving of<ne id=?ne549?
gf=?np-compl?> it </ne></ne></unit>,must have caught<ne id=?ne550?
gf=?obj?><ne id=?ne551?
gf=?gen?>Branicki?s </ne> attention</ne></unit><unit id="u229" finite="finite-yes"><ne gf="subj" id="ne552">Dubois</ne> was commissioned through<ne gf="adjunct" id="ne553"> a Warsaw dealer </ne><unit id="u230" finite="finite-no"> to construct<ne gf="obj" id="ne554"> the cabinet </ne>for<ne gf="adjunct" id="ne555">the Polish aristocrat</ne></unit></unit><ante current=?ne554?
rel=?ident?><anchor antecedent=?ne549?></anchor></ante><ante current=?ne555?
rel=?ident?><anchor antecedent=?ne551?></anchor></ante>In this example, two discourse entities introduced in utterance (u227) are realized inutterance (u229):22 the corner cupboard (realized in (u227) by (ne547) and (ne549) and in(u229) by (ne554)) and Branicki (realized in (u227) by (ne551), and in (u229) by (ne555)).As their grammatical functions are equivalent under the ranking proposed by Groszet al, (np-compl, for np-complement, and gen, for genitive?see the annotation manualavailable on the Web site), these two CFs have the same rank in (u227), so they are bothCBs of (u229).
The same problem occurs with coordinated NPs, both of which havethe same grammatical function.
This problem with the vanilla instantiation can alsobe ?fixed?
by requiring the ranking function to be a total order, which is easily doneby adding a disambiguation factor such as linear order, as done by Strube and Hahn.On the other hand, the requirement that ranking be total has not been previouslydiscussed in the centering literature, and one might argue conversely that examplessuch as the one above are arguments againts centering?s claim that utterances haveonly one CB.
We return to this issue in Section 5.21 It?s not clear to us why ranking is required only to be partial, yet the CB is clearly claimed to be unique.22 Neither (u228) nor (u230) is treated as an utterance as they are not finite.330Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3Table 3Transition statistics for the Brennan et al version of Rule 2.Museum Pharmaceutical Total (Percentages)Establishment 96 93 189 (18.8%)Continuation 37 33 70 (7.0%)Retain 22 16 38 (3.8%)Smooth Shift 22 15 37 (3.7%)Rough Shift 18 5 23 (2.3%)ZERO 87 81 168 (16.7%)NULL 148 334 482 (47.9%)Total 430 577 1,0074.1.2 Rule 2.
The statistics relevant for Brennan et al?s version of Rule 2 are shownin Table 3.
The most obvious consideration suggested by this table is that the threemost frequent transitions in our corpus are ones that either have not been previouslydiscussed in the Centering literature or have been discussed only in a limited way.
Byfar the most frequent transition (47.9% of the total) is NULL: following up an utterancewithout a CB with a second one, also without a CB.
(Examples include (u3), (u4), and(u5) in (9).)
We found this transition discussed only in Passonneau (1998).
The secondmost common transition (18.8%) is Kameyama?s Establishment (the transition betweenan utterance without a CB and one with a CB), followed by its reverse, the ZEROtransition (between an utterance with a CB and one without), never mentioned in theliterature.
(An example of ZERO is (u2) in (9).)
If we ignore NULL, Establishments,and ZEROs, the preferences are roughly as predicted by Brennan et al: The Page testfor ordered alternatives (Siegal and Castellan 1988, pages 184?188) indicates a chanceof less than .001 that the four transitions are equally likely.
But only the differencesbetween CON and RET/SSH, and between SSH and RSH, are significant; and thereare more Shifts (SSH + RSH) than Retains.23Grosz et al?s formulation of Rule 2 in terms of sequences also roughly holds,except that there are too few sequences for the results to be considered significant,as shown in Table 4.
As we?ll see again in Section 5, in our corpus there seems tobe a preference for avoiding repetition; this tendency is confirmed by the numbers inthe table, which indicate a dispreference for maintaining the same CB for too long orfor maintaining it in the most salient position, at least at the level of finite clauses:EST/CON sequences are twice as common as sequences of Continuations.
As forthe claim that Retaining transitions prepare for Shifts, the figures do not lend muchsupport to the idea: Retains are more frequently followed by Continuations than byShifts, and almost as frequently by other Retains.Of the other formulations of Rule 2, the version based on a preference for cheaptransition pairs over expensive ones proposed by Strube and Hahn is not verified withthe ranking function used in the vanilla instantiation?which is not, we should em-23 Similar results were obtained by Passonneau (1998).331Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryTable 4Rule 2 statistics considering sequences of transitions.Museum Pharmaceutical TotalContinuation Sequences 10 6 16Continuation/Retain 9 3 12Establishment/Continuation 17 18 35Retain Sequences 15 3 8Retain/Continuation 7 7 14Retain/Smooth Shift 3 2 5Retain/Rough Shift 4 1 5Smooth Shift Sequences 2 1 3Rough Shift Sequences 2 1 3Null Sequences 95 228 323Other 290 312 602Table 5Cheap and expensive transitions with the vanilla instantiation.Museum Pharmaceutical TotalCheap transitions 76 63 139Expensive transitions 263 380 643Cheap transition pairs 21 14 35Expensive transition pairs 162 234 396phasize, the one assumed by Strube and Hahn themselves.24 Ignoring the 225 segmentboundary utterances, we find 396 pairs of expensive transitions and 35 pairs of cheaptransitions, as shown in Table 5.
These statistics mean that in only 139 cases out of357 (the total number of entity-coherent utterances with this instantiation; see Table 2),CB(Ui) is predicted by CP(Ui?1).
We do find that 219 utterances, the majority (61.3%)of entity-coherent ones, are ?salient?
in the sense of Kibble (2001)?that is, their CB isthe same as their CP.4.1.3 Salience and Pronominalization.
The statistics for pronominalization are shownin Table 6.
As noted above, our corpus contains 217 uses of third-person pronouns, 23demonstratives, and 78 complementizers.25 In this instantiation we take R1-pronounsto include only personal pronouns and complementizers, for a total of 295 R1-pronouns.If we identify utterances with finite clauses, 61 personal pronouns (28.1%) have their24 Similar results were found for dialogues by Byron and Stent (1998).25 We will use the term complementizer to indicate relative pronouns and relative traces.332Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3Table 6R1-pronouns in the corpus with the vanilla instantiation.Museum Pharmaceutical TotalTotal number of R1-pronouns 200 95 295Number of personal pronouns 144 73 217Number of complementizers 56 22 78Table 7cbs and pronominalization with the vanilla instantiation.Museum Pharmaceuticla Total (Percentage)Total number of realizations of CBs 211 163 374Total number of CBs realized as R1-pronouns 138 68 206 (55.1%)CBs realized as personal pronouns 85 48 133 (35.6%)CBs realized as complementizers 53 20 73 (19.5%)CBs not realized as R1-pronouns 73 95 168 (44.9%)Total number of R1-pronouns that do not realize CBs 58 23 81 (27.5%)Personal pronouns that do not realize CBs 55 21 76 (35.0%)Complementizers that do not realize CBs 3 2 5 (6.4%)antecedent in the same utterance, and 28 (13%) are ?long-distance pronouns?
(Hitze-man and Poesio 1998) whose antecedent is in neither the same nor the previous utter-ance.Table 7 shows that the relation between pronominalization and CB with the vanillainstantiation is not straightforward: Only 55.1% of the 374 mentions of CBs26 arepronominalized.
And if relative clause complementizers were not included amongthe R1-pronouns (on the grounds that the decision to use a complementizer is primar-ily dictated by grammatical, rather than discourse, considerations), more CBs wouldbe realized as non-R1 pronouns (171, 44.9%) than as R1-pronouns (137, 35.9%).
On theother hand, 73% of R1-pronouns do refer to the CB.27Table 8 analyzes pronominalization in terms of the three versions of Rule 1 weare considering.28 Given the figures in Table 7, it should already be clear that thestronger version of Rule 1 we considered, always pronominalize the CB?generalizingthe proposal by Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion (1993) to the less restrictive definition ofCB given by Constraint 3?is not verified: In fact, 55% of utterances violate it.
The twoother versions of Rule 1 we are considering, however?Rule 1 (GJW 83), pronominalize26 Even though only 357 utterances have a CB with this instantiation, a CB may be realized more thanonce in an utterance.27 Earlier versions of these findings led to the development of the pronominalization algorithm inHenschel, Cheng, and Poesio (2000).28 As discussed in Section 3, what is counted here are utterances that verify or violate Rule 1.
Not allutterances are considered: of the 346 utterances that have exactly one CB, 72 are ignored by the scriptin that the only realization of an R1-pronoun is done via a relative pronoun or trace, so only 274 (27.2%of the total number of utterances) are considered relevant for Rule 1.333Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryTable 8Evaluation of the different versions of Rule 1 with the vanilla instantiation.Museum Pharmaceutical Total (Percentage)GJW 95?utterances that satisfy 130 135 265 (96.7%)GJW 95?utterances that violate 7 2 9 (3.3%)GJW 83?utterances that satisfy 117 105 222 (81%)GJW 83?utterances that violate 20 32 52 (19.0%)Gordon?utterances that satisfy 77 45 122 (44.5%)Gordon?utterances that violate 60 92 152 (55.5%)the CB if it?s the same as the CB of the previous utterance, and especially Rule 1 (GJW95), pronominalize the CB if anything else is?are verified by most utterances.There are two classes of violations of Rule 1 (GJW 95): possessive pronouns andpronouns referring to ?global topics?.
In (11), CB(u3), PRODUCT-X, is realized as aproper noun, whereas a possessive pronoun is used to refer intrasententially to thebaby.29(11) (u1) Infants and children must not be treated continuously withPRODUCT-X for long periods(u2) because it may reduce the activity of the adrenal glands, and solower resistance to disease.
(u3) Similar effects on a baby may occur after extensive use ofPRODUCT-X by its mother during the last weeks of pregnancy(u4) or when she is breastfeeding the baby.In the pharmaceutical leaflets, several violations of Rule 1 are found toward the endof text, when pronouns are sometimes used to realize the product described by theleaflet.
For example, it in the following example refers to the cream discussed by theleaflet, not mentioned in the previous two utterances.
(12) (u1) A child of 4 years needs about a third of the adult amount.
(u2) Acourse of treatment for a child should not normally last more than fivedays (u3) unless your doctor has told you to use it for longer.What we seem to observe here is a conflict between the ?global?
preference to real-ize the ?main character?
of a discourse as a pronoun, and the ?local?
preference topronominalize the locally most salient entity, as identified by the CB.30 By the end ofa leaflet, the product discussed in the leaflet has been mentioned a number of times,so that it is salient enough to justify pronominalization even when it is not in CF list.We saw in Table 7 that although there are only 9 violations of Rule 1 from Grosz,Joshi, and Weinstein (1995), 81 R1-pronouns do not realize CBs.
The majority of the29 The problem of intrasentential pronouns in Centering is discussed, e.g., in Walker (1989), Tetreault(2001), and Poesio and Stevenson (forthcoming).30 See also Giouli (1996) and Byron and Stent (1998).334Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 372 cases of pronouns that do not refer to the CB but do not violate Rule 1 fall intotwo classes: (1) R1-pronouns used in utterances without a CB (the majority) and (2)R1-pronouns used in utterances in which the CB is pronominalized as well?as in thefollowing example, in which both the microscope and the amateur scientist are realized(by a personal pronoun and a relative trace) in the relative clause (u2):(13) (u1) This microscope belonged to an amateur scientist,(u2) who would have used it to explore the mysteries of the naturalworld.82.6% of demonstrative pronouns in the corpus do not realize the CB, which is whatone would expect on the basis of, for example, Gundel, Hedberg, and Zacharski (1993),and Passonneau (1993).
This suggests that treating demonstrative pronouns as R1-pronouns would not lead to improvements with respect to Rule 1.
On the other hand,because there are only 23 demonstrative pronouns in the corpus, such a change wouldbe unlikely to drastically affect the results.
And indeed, with a broader definition ofR1-pronoun that includes demonstrative pronouns, we find a few more violations ofRule 1 (GJW 95) (11 instead of 9) and a few less violations of Rule 1 (Gordon et al) (148instead of 152) and of Rule 1 (GJW 83) (50 instead of 52), but none of these differencesis significant.
The results reported in the rest of the article are all obtained with the?narrow?
definition of R1-pronoun that does not include demonstratives.314.1.4 Differences Among the Domains.
The texts in the museum domain seem to bemore in agreement with the predictions of the theory than the texts in the pharmaceu-tical domain.
This is especially the case for Rule 1.
There are fewer personal pronounsin the texts in the pharmaceutical domain (73 of 1,308 CFs, [5%], as opposed to 144of 1,731 [8%] for the museum domain), and whereas in the museum domain 40.3%(85/211) of CB realizations are done via personal pronouns (65.4% if we consider allR1-pronouns), in the pharmaceutical domain only 29.4% (48/163) are (41.7% for R1-pronouns).
The percentage of utterances satisfying the strong version of Constraint1 is much higher in the museum domain (44.0%, 189/430) than in the pharmaceuti-cal one (27.2%, 157/577), and the percentage of utterances with no CB that are notsegment boundaries is much higher in this second domain (55.3%, 319/577) than inthe first (39.1%, 168/430).
Finally, almost 72% of utterances in the pharmaceutical do-main are NULL or ZERO transitions (415/577), whereas just 54.6% are in the museumdomain (235/430); the percentage of EST and CON is also higher in the museumdomain (133/430, 31%, versus 126/577 [21.8%]).
These differences are in part due tothe large number of second-person pronouns you in the pharmaceutical domain, sothat the statistics for Constraint 1 improve if we treat the entities referred to by thesepronouns as CFs, as we will see below.
A second reason for these differences is thatlayout plays a much more important role in the pharmaceutical domain, providing adifferent way of achieving coherence.
(See Section 5.
)4.2 Varying the Utterance ParametersWe now begin to explore alternative parameter settings.
As always, space constraintsprevent a full discussion of all the instantiations.
In this article, we discuss the resultswith most of the variants quite briefly and analyze at some length only the instantiation31 The relation between demonstrative NPs in general and the CB in our corpus is analyzed in detail inPoesio and Nygren-Modjeska (2003).335Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theorythat identifies utterances with sentences; the results are summarized with graphs.The extended technical report available on the companion Web site contains a moreextensive discussion of some of the variants; interested readers are also encouragedto try further instantiations on the Web site.
In this subsection we consider how thedefinition of utterance (parameter uttdef) and the value of the parameter previousutterance affect the claims.4.2.1 Treating Coordinated Verb Phrases as Utterances.
Many researchers workingon spoken dialogues or NLG assume that each element of a coordinated VP countsas a separate utterance: that is, that in We should send the engine to Avon and hook it tothe tanker car, the coordinate VP hook it to the tanker car is actually a separate utterance.Treating coordinated VPs as separate utterances in our corpus would of course resultin more utterances (1,041 vs. 1,007), which of course would lead to worse results unlessthese utterances were treated as containing an implicit trace.
If we do so, we obtainslightly (but significantly) better results for Strong C1 (48% violations instead of 49%),and nonsignificant differences for Rule 1 and Rule 2 (with slightly higher numbers ofContinuations and slightly lower number of Retains).4.2.2 Using All Verbed Clauses Instead of Just the Finite Ones.
A second extensionof the definition of utterance is to treat as utterances all clauses with a verb, including,for example, the infinitival to-clause in John wants to visit Bill.
The results with such aninstantiation, as well, crucially depend on our grammatical assumptions.
With sucha definition, we get of course many more utterances (1,267 instead of 1,007), most ofwhich, like the example infinitival clause just given, do not contain explicit mentionsof the argument in subject position; so again, if we didn?t assume that traces arepresent in such clauses, we would find significantly more violations of Strong C1 (685instead of 498).
Using a crude mechanism for tracking traces (adding a trace referringto the subject of the matrix clause to all nonfinite complement clauses), we still find alarger number of violations (598) than with the vanilla instantiation, but because thenumber of utterances is much greater, these violations represent a significantly lowerpercentage of the total (47% instead of 49%).
We find no significant differences in thenumber of violations of Rule 1.
As for Rule 2, this change results in significantly fewerNULL transitions (45.0% instead of 47.9%) and significantly more EST (22.1% insteadof 18.8%) and SSH (5.6% instead of 3.7%).4.2.3 Restricting Finite Clauses.
In general, the best results for C1 are obtained byconsidering larger chunks of text as a single utterance, thus reducing the number ofutterances.
In particular, fewer violations are obtained by not considering as utter-ances finite clauses that occur as parentheticals, as subjects (as in That John could do thisto Mary was a big surprise to me), and as matrix clauses with an empty subject (as inIt is likely that John will arrive tomorrow).
This merging only reduces the overall num-ber of utterances from 1,007 to 972, but the result is a simultaneous reduction in theviolations of Strong C1 from 498 to 469 (48.2%) (which is significant by the binomial-proportions test, though still not enough for Strong C1 to be verified) and an increasein the number of utterances that satisfy Rule 1 (GJW 95) to 281.
The violations of Rule1 are also reduced to 8 (2.8%) (not significant).
(There are virtually no changes for Rule2.)
Because of these small improvements, in the rest of the article we always excludethese occurrences when discussing the results with finite clauses as utterances; werefer to this instantiation as ?vanilla?
?.336Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 34.2.4 Relative Clauses.
Relative clauses turned out to be one of the most complexproblems we had to face.
The reader may recall that Kameyama tentatively proposes(without empirical support) that relative clauses have a ?mixed?
status: They shouldbe locally treated as updating the local focus, but at the global level they shouldbe merged with the embedding utterance.
This proposal, however, seems to assumethat the local focus may be updated with the content of certain utterances some timeafter they have been first processed, which is a rather radical change to the basicassumptions of the framework.
In this study, we simply compared an instantiationin which relative clauses are treated as utterances with one in which they are not.
Inaddition, we considered treating relative clauses as adjuncts (i.e., as not embedded) andtreating them as complements (embedded).32 The figures reported so far were obtainedby treating relative clauses as utterances and as akin to adjuncts.33 Not treating relativeclauses as separate utterances results in a 6.5% reduction in the number of utteranceswith respect to vanilla?
(908 instead of 972) and in fewer violations of Strong C1 (452[439 utterances without a CB, 13 with two CBs] instead of 469 [457 and 12]); however,the percentage of violations is higher (49.7% vs. 48.2%).
The number of violations ofRule 1 also stays the same (8 [2.7%]).
From the point of view of Rule 2, a lot of relativeclauses seem to function as EST, since their number goes down by almost 15%, to17.3% (from 190 to 157); we also see a 30% reduction in SSH and an increase in NULL,to 50.6% of the total.
Everything else stays the same.In purely numerical terms, then, not treating relative clauses as separate utteranceswould not improve the results.
Furthermore, and most important, we feel that nottreating finite relative clauses as separate utterances would make it very difficult tomaintain the principle that utterances are identified with finite clauses.
For thesereasons, in the rest of the article we will continue to count relative clauses as finiteclauses.4.2.5 Suri and McCoy?s Definition of Previous Utterance.
As discussed in Section 2,Suri and McCoy (1994) suggested that after- and before-clauses behave more like em-bedding elements (i.e., like complements) than like coordinating ones, and Cooremanand Sanford (1996) found evidence supporting this treatment for when clauses, as well.The previous utterance parameter of our script can be used to compare this proposalwith Kameyama?s.
When this parameter is set ?Kameyama-style,?
adjunct clauses aretreated as not embedded, so that, in (14), the previous utterance for (u3) is (u2).
(Thiswas the setting used for the results discussed so far.)
When the parameter is set to(generalized) Suri and McCoy, adjunct clauses are treated as embedded, so that theprevious utterance for (u3) is (u1):(14) (u1) John woke up (u2) when Bill rang the door.
(u3) He had forgotten the appointment.Using Suri and McCoy?s definition of previous utterance results in a small but sig-nificant reduction in the number of violations of Strong C1, in small improvementsconcerning R1 (GJW 95), and in small, but not significant, improvements for Rule 2.
Asfar as Strong C1 is concerned, 20 utterances that violate Strong C1 with Kameyama?s32 The difference matters when the relative clause occurs at the end of an embedding clause, as in Johnwanted a photograph of the man that Bill had seen entering the building at night.
He .
.
.33 We also remind the reader that our script treats all relative clauses as containing a link referring to theentity modified by the relative, even when the clause does not contain an explicit relative pronoun orcomplementizer, so that they never violate C1.337Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theorydefinition satisfy it under Suri and McCoy?s, but 9 utterances become violations (bythe sign test, +20, ?9, p ?
.03).
The reduction is not, however, sufficient for StrongC1 to be verified (+355, ?458).
With Rule 1, we find that the number of utterancesthat verify the GJW 95 version increases (+287), but the number and percentage ofviolations stays the same (8 [about 2%]).We should note, however, that the differences between Kameyama?s and Suri?sdefinition of previous utterance have mostly to do with a type of clause that wasdiscussed only briefly by Kameyama and not at all by Suri and McCoy: relative clauses,as in (15):(15) (u1) This brooch is made of titanium,(u2) which is one of the refractory metals.
(u3) It was made by Anne-Marie Shillitoe, an Edinburgh jeweller, in 1991.If the ?generalized Kameyama?
definition of previous utterance is adopted, the pre-vious utterance for (u3) is the relative clause, (u2); this causes a violation of StrongC1.
In the ?generalized Suri and McCoy?
instantiation, by contrast, the relative clauseis treated as embedded; this seems to be the better approach.
If relative clauses werenot treated as separate utterances or were treated as embedded in both instantiations,we would find an equal number of violations, although about 20 violations would bedifferent in each instantiation.
One example in which the difference does have to dowith the way adjuncts are handled is (7).
PRODUCT-Z is not mentioned in the adjunctif-clause, and therefore Strong C1 is violated if (u2) is taken as previous utterance for(u3).
In this case, Suri and McCoy?s proposal works better than Kameyama?s.
(7) (u1) You should not use PRODUCT-Z(u2) if you are pregnant or breast-feeding.
(u3) Whilst you are receiving PRODUCT-Z ....Conversely, in the following example, the adjunct clause, as you may damage the patchinside, introduces the entity the patch, which is then referred to in (u3), so treatingthe adjunct (u2) as embedded leads to a violation of C1.
In this case, Kameyama?sdefinition of previous utterance gives the right result:(16) (u1) Do not use scissors(u2) as you may damage the patch inside.
(u3) Take out the patch.Given that these improvements are significant, if small, in the rest of the article, wewill use Suri and McCoy?s definition when uttdef is set to finite clause.
However, ourdiscussion, and especially the contrast between (7) and (16), gives further support tothe idea that utterances may be best identified with sentences.
We consider this settingnext.4.2.6 Sentences.
The setting of uttdef with the most dramatic impact on Strong C1is that which identifies utterances with sentences.
The reasons for this have alreadybeen illustrated with (9): If utterances are identified with sentences, there are only twoutterances in that example, both containing references to the egg vases.
The reductionin violations is such that with this instantiation more utterances verify Strong C1338Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3Table 9Statistics relevant to Constraint 1 when utterances are identified with sentences.Museum Pharmaceutical Total (Percentage)Number of times at least one CF(Un) is realized in Un+1 131 147 278 (41.6%)Utterances that satisfy Constraint 1 (have exactly one CB) 126 138 264 (39.5%)Utterances with more than one CB 5 9 14 (2.1%)Utterances without a CB but segment boundary 65 80 145 (21.7%)Utterances without a CB 75 171 246 (36.8%)than violate it, although not so many as to ensure verification at the 5% level.34 Thestatistics relevant to Constraint 1 with this definition of utterance are shown in Table 9.Although Strong C1 is still not verified if we consider all 669 segments of text thatcontain NPs, the number of utterances that satisfy Strong C1 (264) is slightly largerthan the number of those that don?t (260).However, identifying utterances with sentences also has several negative (if small)effects.
The main among these is that the number of violations of Rule 1 goes up:In the case of Rule 1 (GJW 95), by 50%, from 8 to 12.
The reason for this increase isin part simply that more utterances have a CB; but in some cases, the problem couldbe viewed as the CB?s not being updated quickly enough.
Consider the followingexample:(17) (s1) The engravings for these rooms, showing the wall lights in place,were reproduced in Diderot?s Encyclopedie, one of the principal worksof the Age of Enlightenment.
(s2) An inscription on the Getty Museum?sdrawing for one of these wall lights explains (cl3) that it should hangabove the fireplace.The pronoun it in sentence (s2) violates Rule 1 if utterances are viewed as sentences,but not if they are viewed as clauses.
This is because in the first case (s2) has a singleCB, the wall lights, whereas with the vanilla?
instantiation clause, (cl3) is a separateutterance, with CB one of these wall lights.
Because the number of violations is still quitesmall, both Rule 1 (GJW 95) and Rule 1 (GJW 83) are still verified (+252, ?12; and+209, ?55, respectively, as opposed to +287, ?8 and +243, ?52, with the vanilla?instantiation, Suri setting),35 although Rule 1 (Gordon et al) still isn?t (+97, ?167).Note also that with this instantiation, the number of CBs realized by R1-pronouns(129) is much smaller than the number realized by other types of NPs (209).34 There is one complication: Many CFs are introduced not in sentences, but in in titles and other layoutelements that do not have a sentential format, such as Chandelier or Side effects.
In order not to leavethese CFs ?stranded,?
the scripts also treat as an utterance every unit that contains an NP which is notcontained in any sentence, just as we did for the vanilla instantiation.
This means, however, that thenumber of utterances is much larger than the number of sentences (669 instead of 505), and that StrongC1 is not verified, even though it would be if only the 505 sentences were considered (the sign testwould then show p ?
0.001 for Strong C1).35 The number of utterances to be tested of course varies depending on whether utterances are identifiedwith finite clauses (295) or sentences (264).339Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryTable 10Rule 2 statistics with sentences as utterances.Museum Pharmaceutical Total (Percentage)Establishments 54 68 122 (18.2%)Continuations 28 33 61 (9.1%)Retain 22 23 45 (6.7%)Smooth Shift 7 12 19 (2.8%)Rough Shift 20 11 31 (4.6%)ZERO 52 66 118 (17.6%)NULL 88 185 273 (40.8%)The results for Rule 2 are not that different from those obtained with finite clauses,but we do observe more Continuations and fewer NULLs.
The statistics are shownin Table 10.
Note the much greater number of Rough Shifts than of Smooth Shifts,although the ranking suggested by Brennan et al is still verified by the Page test.There are still too few sequences to truly test the version of Rule 2 proposedby Grosz et al, but the preferences are roughly verified.
As for the version of Rule2 proposed by Strube and Hahn, there still 10 times as many expensive-expensivesequences (191) as cheap-cheap ones (18).4.2.7 Interim Summary.
The effect of the changes in the definition of utterance andprevious utterance on Strong C1 and Rule 1 are summarized in Figure 1 and Figure 2,respectively.
As the figures show, most such changes have fairly small effects, eventhough the effects are often significant.
The one exception is identifying utteranceswith sentences; treating all clauses as utterances also has a positive impact, providedthat we assume nonfinite clauses contain an implicit realization of the subject of thematrix clause.Even though identifying utterances with sentences leads to much better results forStrong C1, we will not simply abandon the hypothesis that utterances may coincidewith finite clauses.
This is in part for theoretical reasons, such as the fact that inother theories of discourse in which ?units?
are assumed, such as RST, these unitsare generally finite clauses.
Also, identifying utterances with sentences leads to small,but significant, increases in the number of violations of Rule 1 (from 8 in the vanillainstantiation [2.8%] to 12 [4.5%]) and in the number of Rough Shifts (from 2.9% to4.6%).
We will also see in a moment that there are other ways of changing the vanillainstantiation that satisfy Strong C1, so identifying utterances with sentences is notstrictly necessary.In the rest of the article we will, therefore, study the effect of changes to otherparameters both on instantiations in which utterances are identified with finite clauses(henceforth, u = f ) and on instantiations in which they are identified with sentences(u = s).4.3 RealizationIn this section we discuss the effect of changes in the values of the realization param-eters: realization and CF-filter.340Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3Figure 1The effect of utterance parameters on Strong C1: A summary.Figure 2The effect of utterance parameters on Rule 1 (GJW 95): A summary.4.3.1 IF: Indirect Realization + u = f .
Examples such as (9) indicate that anotherway to reduce the number of violations of Strong Constraint 1 is to allow for indirectrealization: Then the bridging references to the egg vases in (u2), (u3), and (u4) wouldmake them the CB of these utterances.
And indeed, if we modify the ?best?
among theu = f instantiations (vanilla?, using our generalization of Suri and McCoy?s proposalto determine the previous utterance) to allow for indirect realization, the reduction inviolations to Strong C1 is such that with 525 utterances (54.0%) having exactly one CBand 325 having zero or more than one (33.4%), Strong C1 is verified by the sign test(+525, ?325).3636 The number of utterances is obviously not affected by changes in the realization parameters.341Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryTable 11Rule 2 statistics with indirect realization, 4u = f .Museum Pharmaceutical Total (Percentage)Establishments 75 95 170 (17.5%)Continuations 49 40 89 (9.2%)Retain 76 51 127 (13.1%)Smooth Shift 39 25 64 (6.6%)Rough Shift 60 37 97 (10%)ZERO 60 78 138 (14.2%)NULL 46 241 287 (29.5%)However, allowing for indirect realization has a negative effect on other claims,just as the change to u=s does.
The first negative effect is that the number of utter-ances with more than one CB almost doubles, from 13 with the ?generalized Suri andMcCoy?
instantiation (1.3%) to 22 (2.3%).
This is because by increasing the numberof ?persistent entities,?
we increase the chance of their having an equivalent rankingin the previous utterance.
The number of violations of Rule 1 exactly doubles: from8 with the Suri and McCoy instantiation to 16.
But because with indirect realizationmore utterances have a CB, the number of utterances that matter for the purposes ofRule 1 also increases, from 295 to 467, so that the percentage of violations to Rule 1does not change that much.
With indirect realization, 3.4% of utterances violate Rule1 (GJW 95), as opposed to 2.7% with generalized Suri and direct realization.
As aresult, Rule 1 (GJW 95) (+451, ?16) and Rule 1 (GJW 83) (+318, ?149) are still verified,whereas Rule 1 (Gordon et al) still isn?t (+136, ?331).
An example of a pronoun thatbecomes a violation of Rule 1 (GJW 95) if we allow CFs to be indirectly realized isshown in (18).
The NP one stand in (u42) realizes a bridging reference to the discourseentity introduced by the NP the two stands in (u39), which is therefore realized in (u42),and thus becomes its CB, but it is not pronominalized.
(18) (u39) The two stands are of the same date as the coffers, but wereoriginally designed to hold rectangular cabinets.
(u42) One stand was adapted in the late 1700s or early 1800s century tomake it the same height as the other.Finally, the change to indirect realization has a big impact on the statistics for Rule 2,shown in Table 11.
On the positive side, the number of NULL transitions goes downsignificantly (to less than 30%), and the percentages of the four ?classic?
transitionsgo up.
However, the greatest increases are in the number of RET (from 3.8% to 13.1%)and RSH (from 2.6% to 10.0%).
The fact that there are many more RET than CON andmany more RSH than SSH means that this is the first instantiation for which Rule 2(BFP) is not verified by a Page test.
The reason for this can be seen in (18): Becauseimplicit realizations are implicit NP modifiers (i.e., one stand is interpreted as one of thetwo stands), they are never CPs of an utterance.
(Rule 2 [Strube and Hahn] still isn?tverified, although the percentage of cheap transitions increases from 154/747, [20.6%]to 207/747 [27.7%]).342Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3Table 12Statistics about Strong C1 with u = s and indirect realizationMUSEUM PHARMA TOTALNumber of times at least one CF(Un) is realized in Un + 1 194 222 416 (62.2%)Utterances that satisfy Constraint 1 (have exactly one CB) 184 206 390 (58.3%)Utterances with more than one CB 10 16 26 (3.9%)Utterances without a CB that are segment boundaries 47 55 102 (15.2%)Utterances without CB 30 121 151 (22.6%)Below, we indicate the instantiations with u=f, Suri and McCoy-style treatment ofadjuncts, and direct realization as DF and those with the same settings, but indirectrealization, as IF.4.3.2 IS: Indirect Realization +u = s. As one might expect, the results for Constraint1 get even better if indirect realization is combined with the u=s setting.
As shownin Table 12, With this instantiation (henceforth, IS) 390 utterances out of 669 (58.3%)satisfy Strong C1, and 177 (26.5%) violate it?significantly better than the instantiationwith u=s and direct realization (henceforth, DS).
On the other hand, the number ofutterances with more than one CB almost doubles again (and with respect to the DSinstantiation), to 26 (3.9%) from 14 (2.1%).The number of violations of Rule 1 (GJW 95), as well, doubles again with respect tothe DS instantiation, from 12 (4.5%) to 26 (6.7% of the 390 utterances with a CB and anR1-pronoun).
While this number of violations isn?t enough to invalidate Rule 1 (GJW95) (+364, ?26), it is three times the number of violations with the vanilla instantiation.As for what we called Rule 1 (Gordon et al), even with this instantiation more than75% of utterances violate it: +97, ?293.37The results with Rule 2 are comparable to those obtained with the IF instantiation.Just as in that case, Rule 2 (BFP) is not verified according to a Page test, even thoughthere is a great reduction in the number of NULL transitions (to 23.2%).
The percentageof RET is even greater than with IF (114 [17.0%], almost twice the percentage of CON[9.4%]) as is that of Rough Shifts (100 [14.9%], almost three times the percentage ofSmooth Shifts [5.2%]).
If we ignore segment boundaries, cheap transitions are 136/444,30.6% of the total (as opposed to 22.0% with DS and 27.7% with IF).4.3.3 Second-Person CFs.
Second-person pronouns (henceforth, PRO2s) are generallyassumed to be used deictically rather than anaphorically (see, e.g., Di Eugenio 1998).37 Some readers might think that the additional violations of Rule 1 obtained with instantiations IF and IS(such as the one in example (18)) shouldn?t really count as violations of Rule 1, because bridgingreferences such as one stand contain an implicit reference to the two stands, that is, are semanticallyequivalent to one of the two stands, and it is these implicit anaphors that satisfy Rule 1.
One of theparameters not discussed here, bridges policy, controls whether these implicit anaphoric references aretreated as R1-pronouns.
It turns out that doing this actually results in more violations of Rule 1, becausemost bridging references do not refer either to the CB of the present utterance or the CB of theprevious one (see Poesio 2003), and every bridging reference not referring to the CB may cause aviolation.
In fact, treating these implicit anaphoric references as R1-pronouns (hence, as CFs) alsodramatically increases the number of utterances with more than one CB, as well as the number ofRough Shifts.
For details, see the extended report and the companion Web site.343Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryHowever, it has been suggested in recent work that especially in dialogue, they mayactually realize CFs (Byron and Stent 1998).38 In our corpus, and especially in the phar-maceutical domain, PRO2s are very numerous and often seem to play an importantrole in maintaining the coherence of the discourse.
And in fact, allowing PRO2s tocount as realizations of CFs does reduce the number of violations of Strong C1 withboth the u = f and the u = s instantiations of the theory, both with direct and withindirect realization.
Even with DF (and the Suri-McCoy setting of the previous utter-ance parameter), allowing PRO2s to count as CFs is sufficient on its own to verifyStrong C1: The museum domain is not affected, but in the pharmaceutical domain,the number of utterances that satisfy Strong C1 increases from 164 to 273, so that intotal 464 utterances satisfy C1 and 367 violate it, which makes the constraint verified(by the sign test, p ?
.03).
With DS, if we treat PRO2s as CFs, 332 utterances verifyStrong C1, and 214 don?t (as opposed to +264, ?260 when PRO2s are not treated asCFs).
Allowing for indirect realization we get even better results: With IF, we get +623,?242, a significant improvement even over the instantiation with direct realization andPRO2s; with IS, we get +439, ?145.The results with Rule 2 are also improved by treating PRO2s as CFs.
The percent-age of NULL transitions is greatly reduced (for DF, down to 35.0% [from 47.6%]; forDS, to 30.8% [from 40.8%]; for IF, to 18.2% [from 29.5%]; for IS, to 15.1% [from 23.2%]).As a result, the percentage of ?continuous?
transitions (Kibble 2001)?EST, CON, RET,SSH, and RSH?increases.
However, RSH and SSH increase, as well as EST and CON:In the IF instantiation with PRO2s, EST are the most common transition (20.2%), butin the IS instantiation, RSH are (18.4%).
Because of these increases, treating PRO2s asrealizations of CFs does not fix the problem with rule 2 (BFP) observed above: theRule still isn?t verified with IF and IS.
There are no significant changes with Rule 2(Strube and Hahn).The results with Rule 1 crucially depend on whether we do or do not considersecond-person pronouns as R1-pronouns.
In either case, letting PRO2s realize CFsresults in more violations of Rule 1 (GJW 95), both in absolute and in relative terms,because more utterances have a CB and therefore count as violations or verifications ofthe rule.
But if we don?t consider PRO2s as R1-pronouns, then the increase in violationsis small: for DF, from 8 (2.7%) to 12 (2.9%); for DS, from 12 (4.5%) to 17 (5.1%); for IF,from 16 (3.4%) to 20 (3.5%); and for IS, from 26 (6.7%) to 31 (7.1%).
If we treat PRO2s asR1-pronouns, however, the percentage of violations of Rule 1 (GJW 95) almost triplesfor the u=f instantiations and doubles for the u=s ones: 31 violations for DF (7.6%), 38for DS (11.4%), 51 for IF (9.1%), and 67 for is (15.3%).
(Of course, in all of these cases,Rule 1 [GJW 95] remains verified in a statistical sense.)
The reason for this increasein violations is that PRO2s do not seem to be very good indicators of the CB: Abouthalf of PRO2s are not realizations of CBs, in all instantiations.
Given these results,it seems clear to us that it?s not a good idea to treat PRO2s as R1-pronouns; it?s lessclear whether to treat them as realizing cfs.
As we find the position that PRO2s play adeictic function convincing, in the rest of the article, we will not include their referentsamong the CFs, but we will indicate where doing so would result in major differences.The interested reader is advised to try the alternatives on the companion Web site.4.3.4 Predicative NPs.
The two alternative views considered so far about which en-tities to realize both result in an increase in the number of CFs.
What if we were to38 Walker (personal communication) also observed that in Japanese, zero pronouns?often taken asreferring to the CB?are allowed to refer to second-person entities.344Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3attempt to reduce the number of CFs instead?
Prima facie, one would imagine this typeof modification to have a negative impact on C1, but perhaps some of the violationsof Rule 1 might disappear.Among the NPs that might be thought not to introduce CFs, an obvious candidateare predicative NPs, that is, NPs like a policeman in John is a policeman that play the roleof predicates in the logical form of an utterance.
But in fact, because our annotatorswere instructed to mark up John rather than a policeman as antecedent of subsequentanaphoric expression in these examples, filtering away such NPs does not have anypositive result at all; on the contrary, it does have a significant (if small) negativeimpact on Strong C1,39 because in some cases the annotators had been forced to markup an NP in predicative position as the antecedent of an anaphoric expression againstthe instructions.
Two such examples are given below.
Especially in the second case, itis not clear how else the annotators could have marked the antecedent of Bjorg:(19) a.
An important artist in making these links has been YasukiHiramatsu.
His knowledge of metalcraft allows him to push and playagainst the boundaries of what the material can physically do.b.
Two such jewellers are Toril Bjorg from Norway and Jacqueline Minafrom England.
It may be unsurprising that Bjorg, as a Scandinavian,should choose silver as her material.In the following we will continue to treat predicative NPs as not introducing CFs.4.3.5 Interim Summary.
The realization parameters have an even greater impact thanthe utterance parameters, especially on Strong C1 and Rule 2.
Either allowing forindirect realization or treating second-person pronouns as introducing CFs, is sufficientfor Strong C1 to be verified.
When the two settings are combined, a large majority ofutterances verifies the constraint.
On the other hand, allowing for indirect realizationalso results in significant increases in the number of violations of Rule 1, althoughoverall the percentage of such violations remains pretty small.
In addition, indirectrealization leads to such an increase in the number of RET and RSH that there arefewer CON than RET and fewer SSH than RSH, and Rule 2 (BFP) is not verified byany of the instantiations with indirect realization we have discussed.
Treating PRO2sas realizations of CFs, while sufficient to cause Strong C1 to be verified, has less ofan effect on Rule 2, but when we combine this setting with the IS instantiations, weobtain an instantiation in which RSH is the most common transition.
The effects ofthe realization choices are summarized in Figures 3 and 4.4.4 Ranking4.4.1 Grammatical Function + Linear Disambiguation.
We observed above that be-cause grammatical function does not always specify a unique, most highly ranked CF,when using that ranking function some utterances end up with more than one CB,which causes the violations of the weak version of Constraint 1 seen above (up to 5.7%of the total in the IF instantiation treating PRO2s as CF realizations).
We also men-tioned, however, that this problem can be fixed by requiring the ranking function to bea total order, which, in turn, is easily done by adding a tie-breaking factor.
Given theresults in Gernsbacher and Hargreaves (1988) and Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion (1993),39 The difference is significantly larger for all the instantiations not treating PRO2s as CFs; larger, but notsignificantly so, if PRO2s are treated as CFs.345Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryFigure 3The effect of the realization parameters on the violations of Strong C1.Figure 4The effect of the realization parameters on the percentage of violations of Rule 1.the most obvious disambiguating factor is linear order: Whenever two CFs are equallyranked, assign to, say, the leftmost CF a higher rank.
And indeed, we saw in Section 2that linear order is used by Strube and Hahn (1999) to resolve ties, albeit in conjunctionwith a ranking function other than grammatical function.
In this section we evaluatethe ranking function obtained by adding linear order to grammatical function, whichwe call GFTHERELIN.40 The results with this ranking function are summarized inTable 13.40 The reason for the ?there?
in the function?s name is that the results can be slightly improved by afurther small change: ranking postcopular nps in there-sentences (e.g., someone in There is someone at thedoor) as subjects rather than objects.
See, e.g., Sidner (1979).346Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3Table 13Summary of results for Strong C1, Rule 1 (GJW 95), and Rule 2 (BFP) with GFTHERELINranking.
?
indicates that a claim is not verified at the .05 level; ?
that it?s not verified at the.01 level.Instantiation Strong C1 Rule 1 (GJW 95) Rule 2 (BFP) (Page test,(Percentage violations) (Percentage violations) probability of notbeing verified)DF-predicate +352,?450 (46.3%) ?
+291,?11 (3.6%) .001DF-predicate+pro2 +465,?355 (36.5%) +403,?15 (3.6%) .001DS-predicate +273,?249 (37.2%) ?
+259,?14 (5.1%) .001DS-predicate+pro2 +347,?197 (29.4%) +325,?22 (6.3%) .001IF-predicate +529,?310 (31.9%) +463,?18 (3.7%) 1 ?IF-predicate+pro2 +635,?219 (22.5%) +325,?22 (3.7%) .05?IS-predicate +408,?157 (23.5%) +378,?30 (7.4%) .05?IS-predicate+pro2 +469,?113 (16.9%) +432,?37 (7.4%) 1 ?The table summarizes eight instantiations: DF, DS, IF, and IS, each in two variants(including PRO2s and without them).
For each instantiation, the table lists verifiersand violations of Strong C1 and Rule 1 (GJW 95) and the percentage of violations, aswell as the results of the Page test for Rule 2.Adopting GFTHERELIN as a ranking function doesn?t lead to major changes as faras Strong C1 is concerned.
This is because the only change from the results obtainedwith simple grammatical function is that the utterances previously classified as havingtwo CBs get reclassified as having one, and with the instantiations that would benefitthe most from a reduction in Strong C1 violations?those based on DF?the number ofmulti-CB sentences is fairly small, typically 1?2%, although this is enough to make theimprovement significant by the sign test with all instantiations.
The improvements aregreater with the u=s instantiations, since with sentences it?s more common for morethan one CF to be realized in the same grammatical position; for example, in the ISinstantiations in which PRO2s are considered as realizations of CFs, we find that 5.7%of utterances (38/669) have more than one CB.
However, Strong C1 is already verifiedwith these instantiations, even with simple grammatical function.As in all previous cases, better results with Strong C1 are counterbalanced byworse results for Rule 1?although, again, not so much worse that Rule 1 ends upnot being verified.
The results with the DF instantiations aren?t significantly worse:For example, we find +291, ?11 (3.6%) with the instantiation not including predicativeNPs and second-person pronouns, as opposed to +280, ?9 for the same instantiationwith simple grammatical function ranking.
The number of violations of Rule 1 issignificantly greater with the DS instantiation if PRO2s are treated as CF realizations:+325, -22 (6.3%) vs. +310, -17 (5.2%).
In two of the additional five violations of Rule1, however, the problem is simply that by adding a disambiguation element, we turnutterances whose CB is undefined (because more than one CF is equally ranked) intoutterances with a CB.
One such example is (20):(20) (s7) Intended to hold jewels or small precious items, the interiors ofthis pair of coffers are lined with tortoiseshell and brass or pewter, withsecret compartments in the base.347Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryTable 14Transition percentages for IS with GFTHERELIN ranking.Museum Pharmaceutical Total (Percentage)Establishments 47 60 107 (16.0%)Continuations 28 44 72 (10.8%)Retain 56 65 121 (18.1%)Smooth Shift 8 24 32 (4.8%)Rough Shift 48 28 76 (11.4%)ZERO 43 58 101 (15.1%)NULL 41 119 160 (23.9%)(s8) The coffers are each decorated using techniques known as premierepartie marquetry, a pattern of brass and pewter on a tortoiseshell ground,and its reverse, contrepartie, a tortoiseshell pattern on a background ofpewter and brass.With simple grammatical function, both the coffers and brass are CBs of (s8), whichis therefore treated by our script as not having a well-defined CB.
As a result, thepronominalization of a non-CB, premiere partie marquetry, is not counted as a violation.
(s8), however, becomes a violation with GFTHERELIN, since the coffers becomes itsonly CB.With the IF instantiation, the percentage of violations of Rule 1 (3.7%) is nonsignif-icantly greater than the percentage with simple grammatical function (3.5%).
Thepercentage of violations with the two IS instantiations (7.4%) is significantly worse (atthe .01 level) than with simple grammatical function (6.7% and 7.1%, respectively).Table 13 shows that using GFTHERELIN has a positive effect on the numberof violations of Rule 2 (BFP).
Whereas with simple grammatical function, none of theinstantiations with indirect realization verifies Rule 2 (BFP) by the Page rank test, withGFTHERELIN the IS instantiation does (although only at the .05 level), as does IF ifPRO2s are treated as CF realizations.
(All direct realization instantiations still verifythe rule.)
The main reason for this change is a significant reduction in the percentageof RSH with GFTHERLIN, especially for the IF and IS instantiations: With IF we seea reduction in RSH from 9.7% to 7.6%; with IS, from 14.6% to 11.4%.
With the DSinstantiation the percentage of RET and RSH is about twice what we find with theDF instantiation, just as we observed with simple grammatical function ranking, butotherwise the results are pretty similar to those with DF.
With the IF and the ISinstantiations, we get small but significant increases in CON and RET and a reductionin RSH.
In Table 14, we report the complete percentages for this instantiation, forcomparison with other ranking functions.The change to GFTHERELIN hardly affects the relative percentages of cheap andexpensive transitions, so the results concerning Rule 2 (Strube and Hahn) do notchange.The IS instantiation with GFTHERELIN ranking is the one in which all three claimsare verified without need to treat PRO2s as CF realizations, even though Rule 2 is348Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3verified with this instantiation only at the .05 level.
We will therefore concentrate onthis instantiation when making comparisons with the other ranking variants.4.4.2 Linear Order.
Among the ranking functions alternative to grammatical function,perhaps the simplest is the one that ranks CFs in the order of their occurrence in theutterance, from left to right.
This ranking function was explicitly proposed by Rambow(1993) to account for facts about scrambling in German, and effects of order of mentionhave been observed by, among others, Gernsbacher and Hargreaves (1988), Gordon,Grosz, and Gillion (1993), and Stevenson, Crawley, and Kleinman (1994).Using linear order instead of GFTHERELIN has no effect at all on Constraint 1,as one would expect, since all that matters for the constraint to be verified is whetherdiscourse entities are mentioned in successive utterances and whether the rankingfunction is total.
However, no significant differences were observed with Rule 1 (GJW95), either: with IS, we find +378, ?30, with linear order, as opposed to +377, ?31,with GFTHERELIN.41 This is because linear order is a very good approximation ofgrammatical function in English: Subjects tend to occur in first position, objects insecond position, etc.
The one claim for which the differences are significant is Rule 2(BFP): with IS, enough CON become RET and enough SSH become RSH that Rule 2is no longer verified even at the .05 level.
(The rule is still verified in the DF and theDS instantiations.
)All in all, these results are not grounds to argue that linear order is a better rank-ing function than GFTHERELIN;42 however, because the differences are so small, theyalso suggest that linear order (which is far easier to compute) might be a good ap-proximation of grammatical-function ranking for practical applications working withEnglish.4.4.3 Information Structure.
Replacing GFTHERELIN with the ranking function pro-posed by Strube and Hahn (1999) (henceforth, STRUBE-HAHN): rank hearer-old en-tities more highly than inferrables, and these higher than hearer-old entities?cannotand did not lead to different results for Strong C1, for the reasons already discussedfor linear-order ranking.
Less expected was the fact that?again, just as in the caseof linear order?we didn?t find any significant differences with Rule 1 (GJW 95), ei-ther, although with the IF and IS instantiations, we find one more violation than withGFTHERELIN.43 This doesn?t mean that the exact same utterances are violations inboth cases, rather, that the differences ?balance out?.
We already saw one example inwhich STRUBE-HAHN ranking results in a violation of Rule 1, whereas GFTHERELINranking doesn?t: This is the first sentence in (10), illustrating the kind of situations inwhich a partial ranking may result in two CBs.
We repeat that sentence in (21) andinclude the preceding sentence:(21) (s67) An inventory of Count Branicki?s possessions made at his deathdescribes both the corner cupboard and the objects displayed on itsshelves: a collection of mounted Chinese porcelain and clocks, someembellished with porcelain flowers.41 With IF the difference goes the other way: +463, ?18, for GFTHERELIN, +463, ?19, for linear order.There are no differences at all with DF and DS.42 This point is reinforced by a number of results from Gordon and collaborators (e.g., Gordon, Grosz,and Gillion 1993; Gordon et al 1999) suggesting that hierarchical position in the parse tree is a betterpredictor of salience than linear order, as well as by results suggesting that for a range of languages,linear order is much less effective?see, for example, Prasad and Strube (2000) for Hindi.43 We discuss the results only with the version of Rule 1 proposed by Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995).349Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryTable 15Transition percentages for IS with STRUBE-HAHN ranking.Museum Pharmaceutical Total (Percentage)Establishments 47 60 107 (16.0%)Continuations 39 55 94 (14.1%)Retain 50 53 103 (15.4%)Smooth Shift 18 26 44 (6.6%)Rough Shift 33 27 60 (9.0%)ZERO 43 58 101 (15.1%)NULL 41 119 160 (23.9%)(s68) The drawing of the corner cupboard, or more probably anengraving of it, must have caught Branicki?s attention.As the corner cupboard is in object position, it gets higher ranking in (s67) than CountBranicki, which is in NP-modifier position, which?while not explicitly discussed inthe centering literature?will presumably fall among the ?other?
cases.
As a result,the cupboard is the CB of (s68), and its pronominalization is predicted by Rule 1.With STRUBE-HAHN ranking, Count Branicki is the highest-ranked entity of (s67), andtherefore the CB of (s68); hence the violation.
Conversely, (22) is an example in whichGFTHERELIN and ranking results in a violation of Rule 1, while STRUBE-HAHNranking doesn?t:(22) (s88) Christened by his contemporaries as ?the most skillful artisan inParis,?
Andre`-Charles Boulle?s name is synonymous with the practice ofveneering furniture with marquetry of tortoiseshell, pewter, and brass.
(s89) Although he did not invent the technique, Boulle was its greatestpractitioner and lent his name to its common name: Boulle work.In this example, Andre`-Charles Boulle?s name, the subject of (s88), is ranked higher thanAndre`-Charles Boulle, and is therefore the CB of (s89), in which, however, it is notpronominalized, even though both Boulle and the technique he invented are.
Noticethat (21) and (22) are almost stereotypical instances of the class of examples that ledSidner (1979) to argue that two foci are needed, one for animated entities, and one forthe entities acted upon; we return to this issue in Section 5.The one claim where STRUBE-HAHN ranking makes a clear difference is Rule 2(BFP).
About 20% of RET become CON and about 20% of RSH become SSH.
Althoughwe still find more RET than CON and more RSH than SSH, these changes are sufficientto cause Rule 2 (BFP) to be verified at the .01 level in all instantiations considered.44 Thetransition percentages with IS and STRUBE-HAHN ranking are presented in Table 15.Even with IS, however?the instantiation closest to the one proposed by Strubeand Hahn?we still find many more expensive transitions (272) than cheap ones (172)44 With DF and DS the number of RET and RSH goes down drastically, so that we do find more CONthan RET and more SSH than RSH, but we still find more SSH than RET.350Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3and almost three times as many expensive-expensive sequences (137) as cheap-cheapones (56), so Rule 2 (Strube and Hahn) is not verified.4.4.4 Summary.
Because Strong C1 is the most problematic claim, it was to be expectedthat the most studied parameter of centering, ranking, would have a smaller impactthan the utterance and realization parameters.
It is nevertheless interesting that theresults for Rule 1 (GJW 95) are virtually identical under the three versions of rankingwe considered.
More differences can be found for Rule 2 (BFP), which is not verifiedby any instantiation with linear-order ranking and is verified only by a few instantia-tions with GFTHERELIN.
Adopting STRUBE-HAHN ranking does result in a greaterpercentage of utterances being classified into one of the ?continuous?
classes and in alower probability of Rule 2?s (BFP) being falsified.
Finally, not even these last changesto parameter settings were sufficient to cause either Rule 1 (Gordon et al) or Rule 2(Strube and Hahn) to be verified.5.
DiscussionIn this section we first discuss the effects of different parameter settings on the re-sults obtained; we then analyze the claims of centering theory, draw a few theoreticalconclusions, and make some suggestions for further work (empirical and theoretical).5.1 Setting the Parameters5.1.1 Comparing Instantiations.
A central goal of this study was to compare differentways of instantiating centering?s parameters, and different versions of its claims, on asingle data set, also examining combinations not previously considered (e.g., whetherBrennan et al?s version of Rule 2 would be verified when the parameters were setas suggested by Strube and Hahn and vice versa.
Our first interesting result in thissense is that if the parameters are set in the most ?mainstream?
way (the ?vanilla?instantiation) only Rule 1 (GJW 95) and Rule 1 (GJW 83) are clearly verified.
The resultsconcerning Constraint 1 are especially negative.
As with this instantiation only 35% ofutterances are continuous?that is, CF(Un) ?
CF(Un?1) = ?
(Kibble 2000; Karamanis2001)?only the weak version of Constraint 1 is verified.
Strong C1, the best-knownformulation, and the one that in our view best captures the idea of ?entity coherence,?clearly doesn?t hold.
Another interesting observation is that if ranking is requiredonly to be partial, some utterances end up with more than one CB: The percentageof such utterances is only 1% with the vanilla instantiation but can be as high as 6%with some instantiations.
This is perhaps obvious, but to our knowledge, it had notbeen previously discussed.As for Rule 2, with the vanilla instantiation the version proposed by Brennan etal.
is verified by a Page rank test, but arguably, the most striking fact about transitionswith this instantiation is the prevalence of NULL transitions (47.9%), Establishments(18.8%), and ZEROs (16.7%).
All together, the four types of transitions falling underthe remit of Rule 2 account for only 16% of utterances, and if Smooth Shifts and RoughShifts are counted together, with this instantiation there are more Shifts than Retains.Other classifications and versions of the rule do not correlate much better with theobserved frequencies: For example, only 39% of entity-coherent transitions (139 outof 357), and 14% of the total, are cheap in the sense of Strube and Hahn (1999) (i.e.,CP(Un?1) predicts CB(Un)).These findings concerning the vanilla instantiation should not, however, lead usto conclude that the theory in general is not verified.
Our second major finding is thatparameters do matter: that is, it is possible to set the parameters in such a way as to351Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theorymake all three claims verified in a statistical sense.
However, because Strong C1 is theclaim with the largest percentage of violations, the parameters whose setting mattersthe most when one is trying to find an instantiation in which all claims are satisfiedare those controlling utterance definition and CF realization.
Considering a center asrealized in an utterance which contains an associative reference to that center is suf-ficient for Strong C1 to be verified; identifying utterances with sentences instead offinite clauses also has a strong positive effect.
With the resulting instantiations (IF andIS), Strong C1 is verified, as well as the two ?basic?
versions of Rule 1.We also found, however, that there is a trade-off between Strong C1, on one side,and Rule 1 and Rule 2, on the other: The changes to the utterance and realizationparameters just mentioned, while reducing the violations of Strong C1, increase thoseof Rule 1 and Rule 2 (see, e.g., Table 13).
Identifying utterances with sentences, or (to alesser extent) allowing indirect realization, results in statistically significant increasesin the number of violations of Rule 1?up to a total of 7.4% in the IS instantiation (seeFigures 2 and 4)?although Rule 1 (GJW 95) and Rule 1 (GJW 83) are so robust thatthey are still verified, even in these instantiations.45 These changes to the utteranceand realization parameters have an even greater impact on Rule 2 (BFP), which isonly weakly verified with the vanilla instantiation.
With the IF and IS instantiationsand grammatical-function ranking, we find many more RSH than SSH and manymore RET than ?pure?
CON (i.e., without counting Establishments); indeed, in the ISinstantiation with GFTHERELIN ranking, RET are the second most common transition.As a result, Rule 2 (BFP) is verified with is instantiations only at the .05 level, and withIF instantiations only if second-person pronouns are counted as realizations of CFs.On the positive side, with these instantiations a much greater percentage of utterances(45%) are classified as either CON, RET, SSH, or RSH, and a further 16% as EST.These results can be further strengthened by making one last change to the param-eters: adopting the ranking function proposed by Strube and Hahn (1999) instead ofGFTHERELIN.
With this instantiation, Rule 2 (BFP) is verified at the .01 level, ratherthan only at the .05 level.
This is because although the STRUBE-HAHN ranking func-tion has no effect on Strong C1 (obviously) or R1 (more surprisingly), it does result insome of the RET becoming CON and some of the SSH becoming RSH.
Even thoughwe still find more RET than CON and more RSH than SSH, these changes are enoughto cause Rule 2 (BFP) to be verified at the .01 level with the IS instantiation.
Strubeand Hahn?s own version of Rule 2 still isn?t verified, but this version of the rule is notverified by any of the instantiations we evaluated.
In other words, with the IS or IFinstantiation and STRUBE-HAHN ranking, all three claims of the theory are verifiedat the .01 level.The final observation concerning parameter settings is that issues not widely dis-cussed in the centering literature had a greater impact on the theory?s claims in ourexperiments than parameters such as the choice of ranking function or the definitionof previous utterance.
Many of these issues, such as the treatment of second-personpronouns and of empty categories, have to do with the general issue of which entitiesshould be included in the CF list.
Considering second-person pronouns to be realiza-tions of discourse entities is enough to make Strong C1 satisfied; we also found that45 Perhaps the most spectacular demonstration of the trade-off between Strong C1 and Rule 1 can be seenwith the versions of the theory that adopt the definitions of CB proposed by Gordon, Grosz, andGillion (1993) and Passonneau (1993).
(These instantiations are not discussed in this article, but can beexamined on the companion Web site.)
By adopting a particularly restrictive definition of CB, theseversions succeed in reducing (indeed, eliminating, in the case of Passonneau) the violations of Rule 1,but the price is that only a very few utterances have a CB.352Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3a number of extensions to the definition of utterance, such as the inclusion of rela-tive clauses and nonfinite clauses, led to much worse results unless reduced relativeclauses and nonfinite clauses were taken to include traces linking these clauses to theclause in which they were embedded.5.1.2 Minimizing Violations Should Not Be the Overriding Goal.
We said in Sec-tion 3 that we don?t think that minimizing violations should be the only factor takeninto account in deciding how to set parameters.
Some violations are best accepted andexplained in terms of the interaction of centering preferences with other preferences.
(See below.
)Special care is needed when alternative definitions are supported by cross-linguisticevidence or by the results of psychological studies.
In the case of ranking, althoughwe didn?t find any significant differences between grammatical-function ranking andlinear-order ranking for English, one should keep in mind that such differences havebeen found for other languages, especially more free-order ones.
Prasad and Strube(2000), for example, found that in Hindi the difference between grammatical-functionand linear-order ranking is significant, and Strube and Hahn (1999) found significantdifferences between grammatical function and information structure in German.
Con-versely, before taking the evidence for a slight advantage of STRUBE-HAHN rankingover grammatical-function ranking as conclusive, one needs to supplement our stud-ies with psychological experiments reconciling these results with numerous resultsindicating the important role played by grammatical function, especially subjecthood(among others, Hudson, Tanenhaus, and Dell [1986]; Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion [1993];Brennan [1995]).
Information structure has also been found not to be appropriate forlanguages including Greek, Hindi, and Turkish (Turan 1998; Prasad and Strube 2000;Miltsakaki 2002).
Similar considerations apply to the definition of previous utterance,since we saw that a considerable amount of psychological evidence supports treatingadjuncts as embedded, at least when the syntactically embedded clause is at the endof the sentence (Cooreman and Sanford 1996; Pearson, Stevenson, and Poesio 2000).In the case of the definition of utterance, our results indicate that identifying utter-ances with sentences, rather than finite clauses, leads to results much more consistentwith the claimed preference for discourses to be entity-coherent.
While this result islikely to be useful for a number of reasons and for different types of applications (e.g.,text planners), we believe that further empirical and theoretical work is needed beforeconclusions can be reached about when the local focus is updated.
For one thing, mostanalyses of discourse structure?for example, rhetorical structures theory (Mann andThompson 1988)?view clauses as the basic unit of discourse in written text.
And inspoken dialogue one can hardly find any complete sentences; in this case, the updateunit is much more likely to be a prosodic phrase of some sort.5.2 The Claims of Centering, Revisited5.2.1 Centering, Pronominalization, and Salience.
One clear result of this work is thatcentering?s claims about pronominalization?at least, those expressed by the versionsof Rule 1 proposed in Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995, 1983)?are very robust.
Rule 1(GJW 95) and Rule 1 (GJW 83) are verified with all parameter instantiations, and in avery convincing way: In the instantiations we considered, the percentage of violationsof Rule 1 (GJW 95) never exceeds 8% of the total number of utterances.On the other hand, one should keep in mind that these two versions of Rule 1make very weak claims about pronominalization.
All that Rule 1 (GJW 95) says is thatif we decide to pronominalize, then we should pronominalize the CB.
This formulationdoesn?t address the real problem for a theory of pronominalization or, more generally,353Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theoryof NP form decision, which is to decide when a discourse entity should be realizedas a pronoun (Henschel, Cheng, and Poesio 2000).
And our results also indicate thatsimply strengthening Rule 1 to the form ?pronominalize the CB,?
which can be seenas a generalization of the proposals in Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion (1993), would bea very bad idea: Between 50% (with u = f ) and 60% (with u = s) of mentions ofthe CB are not realized using a pronoun, and conversely, between 30% and 40% ofpersonal pronouns are not realizations of the CB.
Examples like (12) illustrate onetype of situation in which a mismatch between the CB and pronominalization mayoccur: By having been mentioned often in a discourse, a discourse entity may becomesufficiently salient (at the global level) to justify pronominalization even when it isnot the CB.46 These observations suggest that the decision to pronominalize does notdepend only on whether a discourse entity is the CB but must involve a number offurther constraints and preferences.475.2.2 CT as a Theory of Coherence: Constraint 1.
Another result of this work is thatthe validity of centering?s claims about local coherence?Constraint 1 and Rule 2?depends on the choice of the parameters to a much greater extent than is the case forthe claims about pronominalization.
Strong C1 does not hold for the vanilla instan-tiation, although it does hold for any instantiation in which the implicit anaphoriccomponent of bridging references is treated as an indirect realization and for manyinstantiations in which utterances are identified with sentences.
But even under themost favorable parameter instantiations, there are many more exceptions to StrongC1 (between 20% and 25% of the total number of utterances) than we find even withthe instantiations which are worse for Rule 1 (7?8%).
While the weak version of C1,requiring only that there is at most one most salient entity per utterance, does holdeven with the vanilla instantiation and does capture the claim that utterances with aunique CB are easier to process, a central aspect of centering since Joshi and Kuhn(1979) and Joshi and Weinstein (1981), it says nothing about entity coherence?s beingwhat ensures local coherence.Further light on entity coherence is shed by recent work on text planning, particu-larly by Karamanis (2003), which suggests that when all alternative ways of extractinga text plan from the propositions expressed by texts such as those we are studyingare considered, the actual ordering found in the texts tends to be in greater agreementwith centering?s preferences about entity coherence than with most of its alternatives.After extracting the propositions48 expressed by texts in the museum subdomain ofour corpus, Karamanis determined that although the sequence actually found in suchtexts is not optimal as far as minimizing the violations to entity coherence (with theinstantiation he considers, more than 50% of the utterances violate Strong C1), approx-imately 70% of the alternative orderings introduce even more violations.If we accept that the texts in our corpus are coherent, these results suggest thatthere must be other ways of achieving local coherence, apart from what we havebeen calling here ?entity coherence?.
An obvious candidate for an additional, or46 The role of global focus in the interpretation of pronouns needs further study.
A few preliminaryobservations can be found in Hitzeman and Poesio (1998).47 The discrepancy between pronominalization and CB-hood in our corpus is analyzed in more detail byHenschel, Cheng, and Poesio (2000), who propose an algorithm for pronominalization that takes intoaccount factors such as the presence of distractors matching the CB?s agreement features that may leadto the decision not to pronominalize, as well as factors that may result in the pronominalization of anon-CB.
The algorithm achieves an accuracy of 87.8% in the museum domain.48 More precisely, the lists of CF realized by each utterance with a DF instantiation, representing thatutterance?s arguments.354Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3alternative, coherence-inducing device are rhetorical relations.
Indeed, the claim that?entity?
coherence needs to be supplemented by ?relational?
coherence can be foundas far back as Kintsch and van Dijk (1978) and Hobbs (1979).
This view is supportedby an analysis of our data.
With the u=f instantiations, we find in the pharmaceuticalsubdomain many examples in which successive utterances do not mention the sameentities, but the connection between clauses is explicitly indicated by connectives, asin (23):(23) (u1) This leaflet is a summary of the important information aboutProduct A.
(u2) If you have any questions or are not sure about anything to do withyour treatment,(u3) ask your doctor or your pharmacist.A more complex case are utterances in the museum subdomain that do not refer toany of the previous CFs because they express generic statements about the class ofobjects of which the object under discussion is an instance, or utterances that makea generic point that will then be illustrated by a specific object.
In (24), (u2) givesbackground concerning the decoration of a cabinet:(24) (u1) On the drawer above the door, gilt-bronze military trophies flank amedallion portrait of Louis XIV.
(u2) In the Dutch Wars of 1672?1678,France fought simultaneously against the Dutch, Spanish, and Imperialarmies, defeating them all.
(u3) This cabinet celebrates the Treaty ofNijmegen, which concluded the war.While the analysis of such cases in terms of rhetorical relations is more complex, itseems clear to us that an analysis in terms of underlying semantic connections betweenevents or propositions is more perspicuous than one in terms of entity coherence.While it is true that some of these violations could be fixed by adopting a broadernotion of bridging reference?for example, in (24) we might treat France as a bridge toLouis XIV?this wider notion of bridging reference has proven to be very difficult toidentify in a reliable way.Now, given that in an RST-style analysis, every discourse unit is connected by atleast one rhetorical link to at least another discourse unit, one might wonder whether?entity coherence?
is still needed once ?relational coherence?
is introduced.
However,Knott et al (2001) convincingly argue that in RST, complete connectivity is usuallyachieved by introducing relations such as ?Elaboration?
that, when looked at closely,turn out really to be attempts to capture a notion of entity coherence.
This work onrhetorical relations is coming to a position symmetrical to our own: that a purely rela-tional account is not sufficient, and a separate theory of entity coherence is necessary(Knott et al 2001).495.2.3 Topic Continuity: Rule 2.
Rule 2?stating a preference not just to keep talkingabout the same objects, but to preserve their relative ranking?also seems much lessrobust than Rule 1, irrespective of its formulation and of the instantiation.49 The respective role of entity coherence, relational coherence, and other forms of coherence in theexamples in our corpus is studied in more detail in Oberlander and Poesio (2002).355Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryAs already noted, one of the most interesting observations about this aspect ofthe theory concerns the classification of utterances used to formalize it (at least inthe earlier versions of the theory).
With pretty much all parameter instantiations thatwe tested, two of the most common transitions were the NULL transition (betweentwo utterances neither of which has a CB), previously considered only in Passonneau(1998), and the ZERO transition (from an utterance with a CB to one without), whichas far as we can see has never been discussed before.
Indeed, with the vanilla in-stantiation, 84% of all utterances are either NULL, ZERO, or EST and therefore falloutside the scope of Rule 2 in almost all its formulations.
The question raised by thisfinding is whether the theory has to be extended to cover such cases or whether theyhave to be accounted for by other components of an overall theory of discourse (seebelow).Three versions of Rule 2 were tested in some detail.50 The version of Rule 2 fromGrosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1995), formulated in terms of sequences and stating apreference for sequences of CON over sequences of RET over sequences of SHIFT(which we tested by counting the number of sequence pairs), suffers from the prob-lem that even with the ?best?
instantiations, fewer than one-third of sequence pairsinvolve the same transition, and even fewer are sequences of the transitions consid-ered by Grosz et al Even in the instantiation which yields the best results for Rule 2(BFP), IS with STRUBE-HAHN ranking, only 13% of sequence pairs are of the formCON-CON/RET-RET/SH-SH, and altogether only 28% of sequence pairs involve onlytransitions considered by Grosz et al Keeping in mind that Rule 2 (GJW 95) appliesonly to a minority of sequence pairs, we do find that with IS and STRUBE-HAHNranking, the number of CON-CON sequences (37) slightly exceeds the number of RET-RET (35), which in turn exceeds the number of SH-SH (19, of which 16 are RSH-RSH).This doesn?t hold with GFTHERELIN ranking, where RET-RET exceeds CON-CONeven if we treat EST as a type of CON; we find no significant difference between theIF and the IS setting.Rule 2 (BFP), formulated in terms of single transitions, accounts for larger per-centages of the data (single utterances) and was found to be verified both with thevanilla instantiation and with the ?best?
instantiations.
However, we still observed alarge percentage of NULL transitions with most instantiations; we also found moreRET than CON and more RSH than SSH in most instantiations in which utterancesare identified with sentences or allow for indirect realization.51Finally, Strube and Hahn?s preference for sequences of cheap transitions over se-quences of expensive ones isn?t verified by any of the instantiations we tested; in-deed, in all instantiations we studied we found more expensive transitions than cheapones, meaning that the CP of one utterance generally doesn?t predict the CB of thenext.These mixed results are in line with those of psychological experiments, whichso far haven?t found clear evidence supporting the claim that, say, Continuationsare easier to process than Shifts, let alne Retains (Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion1993)50 As noted earlier, an earlier version of Kibble?s proposal was also tested; the results can be viewed onthe companion Web site.51 CON can be made the most frequent transition by merging EST and CON.
We found, however, thatthis merging leads to worse results as far as the correlation between the classification of transitions andtwo of the linguistic phenomena for which the classification has been used: predicting the form ofsubject NPs, and predicting segment boundaries.
These results are discussed in the technicalreport.356Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 35.3 Theoretical ConsequencesWhile proposing modifications of centering is beyond the scope of this article, webelieve our results do have broad theoretical consequences worthy of further explo-ration.5.3.1 Clarification of the Claims and Identification of Further Parameters.
Apart fromcomparing different ways of setting the parameters already discussed in the literature,our work had the more fundamental goal of clarifying the claims of centering theoryby identifying aspects that need to be made more precise.
Our study raised a numberof questions about the definitions of the concepts used in centering not previouslyexamined in the literature or only discussed in passing.Many of these questions have to do with realization, one of the least studied as-pects of the theory.
One such question is the status of entities realized as second-personpronouns.
Our results indicated that if PRO2s are not considered realizations of CF, orif we treat them as R1-pronouns, we find many more violations of Strong C1 and Rule1, respectively (although both claims are still verified).
We also saw that the resultsconcerning Constraint 1 and Rule 1 depended on whether reduced relative clauses andnon-finite VPs were assumed to contain traces and whether or not these traces wereassumed to be R1-pronouns.
More generally, we identified the need for a clear defi-nition of ?R1-pronoun?
: that is, whether we should include traces in relative clauses,the implicit anaphoric elements of bridging references, and demonstrative pronounsamong the ?pronouns?
to which Rule 1 applies.
This question isn?t mentioned in theliterature we know of, yet our results indicate that, for example, treating the implicitanaphoric elements of bridging references or second-person pronouns as R1-pronounsis a very bad idea.Some of the issues raised by this study are relevant only for certain parameter in-stantiations.
One example is the specification of grammatical function ranking beyondthe simplest cases: for example, whether postcopular NPs in there-clauses should betreated as subjects or objects (our results suggest the former) or how nominal mod-ifiers should be ranked (we treated them as adjuncts).
An issue for instantiations inwhich utterances are identified with finite clauses is what the previous utterance iswhen an embedded finite clause is in the middle of another finite clause, rather thanat the end, as in the following example, from the Guardian:(25) But Hutchinson, who appointed Ranieri last season, today said that hespent 30 minutes with the Italian after the Blackburn match and thatresignation was never an issue.5.3.2 Separating Entity Coherence from CB Uniqueness.
Starting with Brennan, Fried-man, and Pollard (1987) and, more recently, Beaver (2004) and Kibble (2001) there havebeen attempts to ?unpack?
some of the original preferences proposed by centering.We feel this work has greatly helped our understanding of the theory and believe thatit would be similarly useful to unpack Constraint 1 into two separate claims, as well:one about uniqueness of the CB, and one about entity coherence.The first function of (both versions of) Constraint 1 is to claim that the CB isunique.
We will call this claim CB uniqueness:CB Uniqueness: Utterances have at most one CB.We have argued throughout the article that Strong Constraint 1 has a second functionas well: to express a preference for utterances that do not occur at the beginning of a357Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric Theorysegment to mention at least one of the objects included in the previous utterance.
Fol-lowing Kibble (2000) and Karamanis (2001), we will call this second half of Constraint1 (entity) continuity:(Entity) Continuity: CF(Ui?1) ?
CF(Ui) = ?Weak C1 is CB uniqueness, whereas Strong C1 is CB uniqueness plus continuity.5.3.3 A Hybrid View of Coherence.
One clear conclusion suggested by our results isthat entity-based accounts of coherence need to be supplemented by accounts of otherfactors that induce coherence at the local level.
The most direct way to do this wouldbe to include in continuity a longer list of factors that may link an utterance to itsprevious one and claim that in order for an utterance to be ?locally coherent,?
at leastone of these factors must be present.
The resulting claim would take a form along thefollowing lines:Hybrid Continuity For every utterance Ui, at least one of the following musthold:1.
CF(Ui?1) ?
CF(Ui) = ?;2.
There is a rhetorical relation RR such that RR(Ui?1,Ui).523.
Ui?1 and Ui are temporally coherent in the sense, forexample, of Kameyama, Passonneau, and Poesio (1993).4. .
.
.
(other factors)A more sensible approach, especially as we don?t yet know all the factors affectingcoherence, would be to be more explicit about the scope of centering theory, viewingit not as a comprehensive account of ?local coherence,?
but only as an account of thecontribution of entity coherence to local coherence.
In other words, we could view(Entity) Continuity as only one among the preferences holding at the discourse level.A natural way to formalize this would be to include Entity Continuity among a set ofconstraints like those proposed by Beaver, which would also have to include furtherconstraints specifying preferences for rhetorical and temporal coherence.5.3.4 CB Uniqueness.
We saw in Section 4 that it?s fairly easy to fix the problem ofutterances?
violating Weak C1, or CB uniqueness: All that is needed is to strenghtenthe requirements on the ranking function and require it to be total, which in turn canbe easily done by adding a disambiguation factor to ranking functions that aren?t totallike grammatical function.
Before doing this, however, we should ask whether this isthe conclusion we should draw from the finding that CB uniqueness will be violatedwith partial ranking functions?or if instead we should allow for utterances to havemore than one CB.When multi-CB utterances such as (10) are considered, it is not immediately ob-vious that one discourse entity (the corner cupboard) is more salient than the other(Branicki), especially since neither occupies a particularly salient position either in theprevious utterance (u227) or in the current one (u229).
Notice also that both entitieshave been mentioned before; and furthermore, one of them is animate (Branicki), the52 This formulation was intentionally designed in such a way as to finesse the issue of whether RRshould be an informational-level relation between the eventualities expressed by the utterances or agenuine rhetorical relation between the speech acts performed by them.358Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3other inanimate (the cupboard).
In these respects, these examples are reminiscent ofthe examples that led Sidner (1979) to argue for two foci?sentences with one an-imate entity (typically in agent position) and an inanimate one (typically in themeposition), like Mortimer sold the book for 10 cents or Mary took a nickel from her toy bankyesterday.
Although the results from studies such as Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion (1993)suggest that when two animate entities are considered, only one tends to show RNPeffects, we are not aware of any experiment testing materials like those discussed bySidner.The hypothesis that topicality is not restricted to one entity per utterance has beenadvanced by a number of researchers, although it is perhaps most clearly associatedwith the work of Givon (1983).
Within the centering literature, abandoning the claimthat we call ?CB uniqueness?
has been suggested by Gundel (1998) and, more radically,in work such as Strube (1998), Gordon and Hendrick (1999), and Tetreault (2001) inwhich the whole notion of CB is abandoned.As seen in Section 2, the primary motivation for CB uniqueness is complexity-theoretic arguments: Inference in monadic logics is less expensive than in normallogics (Joshi and Kuhn 1979; Joshi and Weinstein 1981).
Grosz and colleagues?s lin-guistic evidence for CB uniqueness is contrasts like those in (3), showing that failing topronominalize certain entities (Susan, in that example) is a more serious problem thanfailing to pronominalize others (Betsy).
This claim is further supported by the evidenceconcerning the Repeated Name Penalty (Gordon, Grosz, and Gillion 1993).
However,the RNP is observed only in a subset of the cases that would be considered as CBmentions according to the definition provided by Constraint 3, and in the example weare discussing (10), neither Branicki nor the cupboard occur in (u229) in a position thatwould be subject to RNP effects according to Gordon et al In other words, (some)evidence used by Grosz et al in support of CB uniqueness cannot be used to arguethat (u229) in (10) has a single CB.
This evidence is also consistent with a differentsolution to the problem raised by examples like (10): Instead of attempting to preserveCB uniqueness by requiring the ranking function to be total, one could abandon CBuniqueness, as suggested in Givon (1983) and Gundel (1998).
In both cases, we wouldneed a separate theoretical account of RNP effects.
More empirical evidence is neededon this issue.535.3.5 Variety.
The third conclusion suggested by our results is that ensuring varietyseems to be as important a principle in discourse production as maintaining coher-ence.
This is suggested, first of all, by the fact that only slightly over half of CBs arerealized as R1-pronouns.
It is also the case that CBs are hardly ever continued formore than two or three utterances; that the same discourse entity is very unlikelyto be realized using the same type of NP twice in a row (even with pronouns, weonly have 58 pronoun-pronoun sequences?26% of the total); and that two-thirds ofall transition sequences involve two different transitions.
In fact, we wonder whetherthat the repeated name penalty observed by Gordon et al might not be an instance ofthis more general phenomenon.53 One way to reconcile the different findings would be to use different conceptual tools to characterizethe connection between subsequent utterances.
Each utterance satisfying Continuity would have one ormore links to the previous utterance, that we might call centers of coherence; Entity Continuity wouldthen become a preference for the set of centers of coherence to be nonempty.
In particular situations,may be experimentally identified using the RNP as a test, one of the centers of coherence may acquirea particular status, leading to a preference for pronominalization.
We may call this center the center ofsalience, say.
It would also be interesting to examine the connection between a solution along theselines and Sidner?s solution involving two foci.359Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryAcknowledgmentsSpecial thanks to Nikiforos Karamanis,Alistair Knott, Mark Liberman, RuslanMitkov, Jon Oberlander, Tim Rakow, andthe other members of the GNOME project:Kees van Deemter, Renate Henschel, RodgerKibble, Jamie Pearson, and Donia Scott.
Wealso wish to thank James Allen, JenniferArnold, Steve Bird, Susan Brennan, DonnaByron, Herb Clark, George Ferguson,Jeanette Gundel, Aravind Joshi, EleniMiltsakaki, Rashmi Prasad, Ellen Prince,Len Schubert, Harold Somers, Joel Tetreault,Lyn Walker, and audiences at the ACL 2000,the University of Pennsylvania, theUniversity of Rochester, CLUK, and theUniversity of Wolverhampton for commentsand suggestions.
The corpus presented herewas annotated by Debbie De Jongh, BenDonaldson, Marisa Flecha-Garcia, CamillaFraser, Michael Green, Shane Montague,Carol Rennie, and Claire Thomson, togetherwith the authors.
A substantial part of thiswork, including the creation of the corpus,was supported by the EPSRC projectGNOME, GR/L51126/01.
Massimo Poesiowas supported during parts of this projectby an EPSRC advanced fellowship.
BarbaraDi Eugenio was supported in part by NSFgrant INT 9996195, in part by NATO grantCRG 9731157.
Janet Hitzeman was in partsupported by the EPSRC project SOLE,GR/L50341.ReferencesAlshawi, Hiyan.
1987.
Memory and Contextfor Language Interpretation.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Arnold, Jennifer E. 1998.
Reference Form andDiscourse Patterns.
Ph.D. thesis, StanfordUniversity, Stanford CA.Baker, Collin F., Charles J. Fillmore, andJohn B. Lowe.
1998.
The BerkeleyFrameNet project, Montreal, Canada.
InProceedings of the 36th ACL, pages 86?90.Beaver, David.
2004.
The optimization ofdiscourse anaphora.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, 27(1):3?56.Brennan, Susan E. 1995.
Centering attentionin discourse.
Language and CognitiveProcesses, 10:137?167.Brennan, Susan E., Marilyn W. Friedman,and Charles J. Pollard.
1987.
A centeringapproach to pronouns.
In Proceedings of the25th ACL, Stanford, CA, pages 155?162, June.Byron, Donna and Amanda Stent.
1998.
Apreliminary model of centering in dialog.In Proceedings of the 36th ACL, Montreal,Canada.Caramazza, Alfonso, Ellen Grober,Catherine Garvey, and Jack Yates.
1977.Comprehension of anaphoric pronouns.Journal of Verbal Learning and VerbalBehavior, 16:601?609.Carletta, Jean.
1996.
Assessing agreement onclassification tasks: The kappa statistic.Computational Linguistics, 22(2):249?254.Chafe, Wallace.
1976.
Givenness,contrastiveness, definiteness, subjects, andtopics.
In C. Li, editor, Subject and Topic.Academic Press, New York, pages 25?76.Chinchor, Nancy A. and Beth Sundheim.1995.
Message understanding conference(MUC) tests of discourse processing.
InProceedings of the AAAI Spring Symposiumon Empirical Methods in DiscourseInterpretation and Generation, pages 21?26,Stanford, CA.Clark, Herbert H. 1977.
Bridging.
In P. N.Johnson-Laird and P. C. Wason, editors,Thinking: Readings in Cognitive Science,pages 411?420, Cambridge UniversityPress, London and New York.Cooreman, Ann and Tony Sanford.
1996.Focus and syntactic subordination indiscourse.
Research Paper no.
RP-79,University of Edinburgh, HCRC.Cote, Sharon.
1998.
Rankingforward-looking centers.
In M. A. Walker,A.
K. Joshi, and E. F. Prince, editors,Centering Theory in Discourse.
Oxford,University Press, Oxford, chapter 4,pages 55?70.Dale, Robert.
1992.
Generating ReferringExpressions.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Di Eugenio, Barbara.
1998.
Centering inItalian.
In M. A. Walker, A. K. Joshi, andE.
F. Prince, editors, Centering Theory inDiscourse.
Oxford University Press,Oxford, chapter 7, pages 115?138.Di Eugenio, Barbara, Johanna D. Moore,and Massimo Paolucci.
1997.
Learningfeatures that predict cue usage.
InProceedings of the 35th ACL, Madrid.Fox, Barbara A.
1987.
Discourse Structure andAnaphora.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.Gernsbacher, Morton A. andDavid Hargreaves.
1988.
Accessingsentence participants: The advantage offirst mention.
Journal of Memory andLanguage, 27:699?717.Giouli, Paraskevi.
1996.
Topic chaining anddiscourse structure in task-orienteddialogues.
Master?s thesis, LinguisticsDepartment, University of Edinburgh.Givon, Talmy, editor.
1983.
Topic Continuityin Discourse: A Quantitative Cross-LanguageStudy.
Benjamins, Amsterdam andPhiladelphia.360Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3Gordon, Peter C., Barbara J. Grosz, andLaura A. Gillion.
1993.
Pronouns, names,and the centering of attention indiscourse.
Cognitive Science, 17:311?348.Gordon, Peter C. and Randall Hendrick.1999.
The representation and processingof coreference in discourse.
CognitiveScience, 22:389?424.Gordon, Peter C., Randall Hendrick,Kerry Ledoux, and Chin L. Yang.
1999.Processing of reference and the structureof language: An analysis of complex nounphrases.
Language and Cognitive Processes,14(4):353?379.Grosz, Barbara J.
1977.
The Representation andUse of Focus in Dialogue Understanding.Ph.D.
thesis, Stanford University,Stanford, CA.Grosz, Barbara J., Aravind K. Joshi, andScott Weinstein.
1983.
Providing a unifiedaccount of definite noun phrases indiscourse.
In Proceedings of ACL-83,Cambridge, MA, pages 44?50.Grosz, Barbara J., Aravind K. Joshi, andScott Weinstein.
1986.
Towards acomputational theory of discourseinterpretation.
Unpublished manuscript.Grosz, Barbara J., Aravind K. Joshi, andScott Weinstein.
1995.
Centering: Aframework for modeling the localcoherence of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 21(2):202?225.Grosz, Barbara J. and Candace L. Sidner.1986.
Attention, intention, and thestructure of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 12(3):175?204.Gundel, Jeanette K. 1998.
Centering theoryand the givenness hierarchy: Towards asynthesis.
In M. A. Walker, A. K. Joshi,and E. F. Prince, editors, Centering Theoryin Discourse.
Oxford University Press,Oxford, chapter 10, pages 183?198.Gundel, Jeanette K., Nancy Hedberg, andRon Zacharski.
1993.
Cognitive status andthe form of referring expressions indiscourse.
Language, 69(2):274?307.Hawkins, John A.
1978.
Definiteness andIndefiniteness.
Croom Helm, London.Heim, Irene.
1982.
The Semantics of Definiteand Indefinite Noun Phrases.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Massachusetts at Amherst.Henschel, Renate, Hua Cheng, andMassimo Poesio.
2000.
Pronominalizationrevisited.
In Proceedings of 18th COLING,Saarbruecken, August.Hitzeman, Janet, Alan Black, Paul Taylor,Chris Mellish, and Jon Oberlander.
1998.On the use of automatically generateddiscourse-level information in aconcept-to-speech synthesis system.
InProceedings of the International Conference onSpoken Language Processing (ICSLP98),Sydney, Australia.Hitzeman, Janet and Massimo Poesio.
1998.Long-distance pronominalisation andglobal focus.
In Proceedings ofACL/COLING, vol.
1, pages 550?556,Montreal.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1979.
Coherence andcoreference.
Cognitive Science, 3:67?90.Hudson, Susan B., Michael K. Tanenhaus,and Gary S. Dell.
1986.
The effect of thediscourse center on the local coherence ofa discourse.
In Proceedings of the EightAnnual Meeting of the Cognitive ScienceSociety, Amherst, MA, pages 96?101.Hudson-D?Zmura, Susan and Michael K.Tanenhaus.
1998.
Assigning antecedentsto ambiguous pronouns: The role of thecenter of attention as the defaultassignment.
In M. A. Walker, A. K. Joshi,and E. F. Prince, editors, Centering Theoryin Discourse.
Oxford University Press,Oxford, pages 199?226.Hurewitz, Felicia.
1998.
A quantitative lookat discourse coherence.
In M. A. Walker,A.
K. Joshi, and E. F. Prince, editors,Centering Theory in Discourse.
OxfordUniversity Press, Oxford, pages 273?291.Joshi, Aravind K. and Steve Kuhn.
1979.Centered logic: The role of entity centeredsentence representation in naturallanguage inferencing.
In Proceedings of theIJCAI, Tokyo, pages 435?439.Joshi, Aravind K. and Scott Weinstein.
1981.Control of inference: Role of some aspectsof discourse structure?centering.
InProceedings of the IJCAI, Vancouver, CA,pages 385?387.Kameyama, Megumi.
1985.
Zero Anaphora:The Case of Japanese.
Ph.D. thesis, StanfordUniversity, Stanford, CA.Kameyama, Megumi.
1986.
Aproperty-sharing constraint in centering.In Proceedings of the ACL-86, New York,pages 200?206.Kameyama, Megumi.
1998.
Intra-sententialcentering: A case study.
In M. A. Walker,A.
K. Joshi, and E. F. Prince, editors,Centering Theory in Discourse.
OxfordUniversity Press, Oxford, chapter 6,pages 89?112.Kameyama, Megumi, Rebecca Passonneau,and Massimo Poesio.
1993.
Temporalcentering.
In Proceedings of the 31st ACL,pages 70?77, Columbus, OH.Kamp, Hans and Uwe Reyle.
1993.
FromDiscourse to Logic.
Reidel, Dordrecht.Karamanis, Nikiforos.
2001.
Exploringentity-based coherence.
In Proceedings ofthe Fourth CLUK.
University of Sheffield,pages 18?26.361Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryKaramanis, Nikiforos.
2003.
Entity Coherencefor Descriptive Text Structuring.
Ph.D.thesis, Informatics, University ofEdinburgh.Karttunen, Lauri.
1976.
Discourse referents.In J. McCawley, editor, Syntax andSemantics 7?Notes from the LinguisticUnderground.
Academic Press,New York, pages 363?385.Kibble, Rodger.
2000.
A reformulation ofrule 2 of centering theory.
Technicalreport, ITRI, University of Brighton.Kibble, Rodger.
2001.
A reformulation ofRule 2 of centering theory.
ComputationalLinguistics, 27(4):579?587.Kibble, Rodger and Richard Power.
2000.
Anintegrated framework for text planningand pronominalization.
In Proceedings ofINLG, Mitzpe Ramon, Israel, June.Kintsch, Walter and Teun van Dijk.
1978.Towards a model of discoursecomprehension and production.Psychological Review, 85:363?394.Knott, Alistair, Jon Oberlander,Mick O?Donnell, and Chris Mellish.
2001.Beyond elaboration: The interaction ofrelations and focus in coherent text.
InT.
Sanders, J. Schilperoord, andW.
Spooren, editors, Text Representation:Linguistic and Psycholinguistic Aspects.
JohnBenjamins, Amsterdam and Philadelphia,pages 181-196.Lappin, Shalom and Herbert J. Leass.
1994.An algorithm for pronominal anaphoraresolution.
Computational Linguistics,20(4):535?562.Lascarides, Alex and Nick Asher.
1993.Temporal interpretation, discourserelations and commonsense entailment.Linguistics and Philosophy, 16(5):437?493.Mann, William C. and Sandra A.Thompson.
1988.
Rhetorical structuretheory: Towards a functional theory oftext organization.
Text, 8(3):243?281.Marcu, Daniel.
1999.
Instructions formanually annotating the discoursestructures of texts.
Unpublishedmanuscript, USC/ISI.McKeown, Kathy R. 1985.
Discoursestrategies for generating natural-languagetext.
Artificial Intelligence, 27(1):1?41.Miltsakaki, Eleni.
1999.
Locating topics intext processing.
In Proceedings of CLIN,Utrecht, pages 127?138.Miltsakaki, Eleni.
2002.
Towards anaposynthesis of topic continuity andintrasentential anaphora.
ComputationalLinguistics, 28(3):319?355.Moser, Megan and Johanna D. Moore.
1996.Toward a synthesis of two accounts ofdiscourse structure.
ComputationalLinguistics, 22(3):409?419.Oberlander, Jon, Mick O?Donnell,Alistair Knott, and Chris Mellish.
1998.Conversation in the museum:Experiments in dynamic hypermedia withthe intelligent labelling explorer.
NewReview of Hypermedia and Multimedia,4:11?32.Oberlander, Jon and Massimo Poesio.
2002.Entity coherence and relational coherence:a corpus-based investigation.
Paperpresented at the Berlin workshop onTopics in Discourse, September.Passonneau, Rebecca J.
1993.
Getting andkeeping the center of attention.
InM.
Bates and R. M. Weischedel, editors,Challenges in Natural Language Processing.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,chapter 7, pages 179?227.Passonneau, Rebecca J.
1997.
Instructionsfor applying discourse referenceannotation for multiple applications(DRAMA).
Unpublished manuscript.Passonneau, Rebecca J.
1998.
Interaction ofdiscourse structure with explicitness ofdiscourse anaphoric noun phrases.
InM.
A. Walker, A. K. Joshi, and E. F.Prince, editors, Centering Theory inDiscourse.
Oxford University Press,Oxford, chapter 17, pages 327?358.Passonneau, Rebecca J. and Diane Litman.1993.
Feasibility of automated discoursesegmentation.
In Proceedings of 31st AnnualMeeting of the ACL, Columbus, OH, pages148?155.Pearson, Jamie, Rosemary Stevenson, andMassimo Poesio.
2000.
Pronoun resolutionin complex sentences.
In Proceedings ofAMLAP, Leiden.Pearson, Jamie, Rosemary Stevenson, andMassimo Poesio.
2001.
The effects ofanimacy, thematic role, and surfaceposition on the focusing of entities indiscourse.
In M. Poesio, editor, Proceedingsof the First SEMPRO, University ofEdinburgh.Poesio, Massimo.
2000.
Annotating a corpusto develop and evaluate discourse entityrealization algorithms: Issues andpreliminary results.
In Proceedings of the2nd LREC, pages 211?218, Athens, May.Poesio, Massimo.
2003.
Associativedescriptions and salience.
In Proceedings ofthe EACL Workshop on ComputationalTreatments of Anaphora, Budapest.Poesio, Massimo.
2004.
TheMATE/GNOME scheme for anaphoricannotation, revisited.
In Proceedings ofSIGDIAL, Boston, May.362Computational Linguistics Volume 30, Number 3Poesio, Massimo, Florence Bruneseaux, andLaurent Romary.
1999.
The MATEmeta-scheme for coreference in dialoguesin multiple languages.
In M. Walker,editor, Proceedings of the ACL Workshop onStandards and Tools for Discourse Tagging,pages 65?74.Poesio, Massimo and Barbara Di Eugenio.2001.
Discourse structure and anaphoricaccessibility.
In Ivana Kruijff-Korbayova?and Mark Steedman, editors, Proceedingsof the ESSLLI 2001 Workshop on InformationStructure, Discourse Structure and DiscourseSemantics, Helsinki.Poesio, Massimo andNatalia Nygren-Modjeska.
2003.
TheTHIS-NP hypothesis: A corpus-basedinvestigation.
In Proceedings of DAARC,Lisbon.Poesio, Massimo and Rosemary Stevenson.Forthcoming.
Salience: Theoretical Models andEmpirical Evidence.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge and New York.Poesio, Massimo and Renata Vieira.
1998.
Acorpus-based investigation of definitedescription use.
Computational Linguistics,24(2):183?216.Prasad, Rashmi and Michael Strube.
2000.Discourse salience and pronounresolution in Hindi.
In Penn WorkingPapers in Linguistics, volume 6, Universityof Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,pages 189?208.Prince, Ellen F. 1981.
Toward a taxonomy ofgiven-new information.
In P. Cole, editor,Radical Pragmatics.
Academic Press, NewYork, pages 223?256.Prince, Ellen F. 1992.
The ZPG letter:Subjects, definiteness, and informationstatus.
In S. Thompson and W. Mann,editors, Discourse Description: DiverseAnalyses of a Fund-Raising Text.
Benjamins,Amsterdam and Philadelphia,pages 295?325.Quirk, Randolph and Sidney Greenbaum.1973.
A University Grammar of English.Longman, Harlow, England.Rambow, Owen.
1993.
Pragmatics aspectsof scrambling and topicalization inGerman.
In Proceedings of the Workshopon Centering Theory in Naturally-Occurring Discourse.
Institute forResearch in Cognitive Science,Philadelphia.Sanford, Anthony J. and Simon C. Garrod.1981.
Understanding Written Language.Wiley, Chichester, England.Scott, Donia, Richard Power, andRoger Evans.
1998.
Generation as asolution to its own problem.
InProceedings of the ninth InternationalWorkshop on Natural Language Generation,Niagara-on-the-Lake, CA.Sgall, Petr.
1967.
Functional sentenceperspective in a generative description.Prague Studies in Mathematical Linguistics,2:203?225.Sidner, Candace L. 1979.
Towards aComputational Theory of Definite AnaphoraComprehension in English Discourse.
Ph.D.thesis, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, Cambridge.Siegel, Sidney and N. John Castellan.
1988.Nonparametric Statistics for the BehavioralSciences, 2nd edition McGraw-Hill, Boston.Stevenson, Rosemary J., Rosalind A.Crawley, and David Kleinman.
1994.Thematic roles, focus, and therepresentation of events.
Language andCognitive Processes, 9:519?548.Stevenson, Rosemary, Alistair Knott,Jon Oberlander, and Scott McDonald.2000.
Interpreting pronouns andconnectives: Interactions betweenfocusing, thematic roles and coherencerelations.
Language and Cognitive Processes,15, pages 225?262.Strube, Michael.
1998.
Never look back: Analternative to centering.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-ACL, pages 1251?1257, Montreal.Strube, Michael and Udo Hahn.
1999.Functional centering?Groundingreferential coherence in informationstructure.
Computational Linguistics,25(3):309?344.Suri, Linda Z. and Kathleen F. McCoy.
1994.RAFT/RAPR and centering: Acomparison and discussion of problemsrelated to processing complex sentences.Computational Linguistics, 20(2):301?317.Tetreault, Joel R. 2001.
A corpus-basedevaluation of centering and pronounresolution.
Computational Linguistics,27(4):507?520.Turan, Umit.
1998.
Ranking forward-lookingcenters in Turkish: Universal andlanguage-specific properties.
In M. A.Walker, A. K. Joshi, and E. F. Prince,editors, Centering Theory in Discourse.Oxford University Press, Oxford,chapter 8, pages 139?160.Vallduvi, Enric.
1990.
The InformationalComponent.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofPennsylvania, Philadelphia.van Deemter, Kees and Rodger Kibble.
2000.On coreferring: Coreference in MUC andrelated annotation schemes.
ComputationalLinguistics, 26(4):629?637.Walker, Marilyn A.
1989.
Evaluatingdiscourse processing algorithms.
InProceedings ACL-89, pages 251?261,Vancouver, British Columbia, Canad, June.363Poesio et al Centering: A Parametric TheoryWalker, Marilyn A.
1993.
Initial contexts andshifting centers.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Centering, University ofPennsylvania, Philadelphia.Walker, Marilyn A., Masayo Iida, andSharon Cote.
1994.
Japanese discourseand the process of centering.Computational Linguistics, 20(2):193?232.Walker, Marilyn A., Aravind K. Joshi, andEllen F. Prince.
1998a.
Centering innaturally occurring discourse: Anoverview.
In M. A. Walker, A. K. Joshi,and E. F. Prince, editors, Centering Theoryin Discourse.
Oxford University Press,Oxford, chapter 1, pages 1?28.Walker, Marilyn A., Aravind K. Joshi, andEllen F. Prince, editors.
1998b.
CenteringTheory in Discourse.
Oxford UniversityPress, Oxford.Webber, Bonnie L. 1978.
A formal approachto discourse anaphora.
Report no.
3761,BBN, Cambridge, MA.
