Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation ofLexical Resources from the Penn-II andPenn-III TreebanksRuth O?Donovan?Dublin City UniversityMichael Burke?
?Dublin City UniversityAoife Cahill?Dublin City UniversityJosef van Genabith?
?Dublin City UniversityAndy Way?
?Dublin City UniversityWe present a methodology for extracting subcategorization frames based on an automaticlexical-functional grammar (LFG) f-structure annotation algorithm for the Penn-II andPenn-III Treebanks.
We extract syntactic-function-based subcategorization frames (LFGsemantic forms) and traditional CFG category-based subcategorization frames as well asmixed function/category-based frames, with or without preposition information for obliquesand particle information for particle verbs.
Our approach associates probabilities with framesconditional on the lemma, distinguishes between active and passive frames, and fullyreflects the effects of long-distance dependencies in the source data structures.
In contrastto many other approaches, ours does not predefine the subcategorization frame types extracted,learning them instead from the source data.
Including particles and prepositions, we extract21,005 lemma frame types for 4,362 verb lemmas, with a total of 577 frame types and anaverage of 4.8 frame types per verb.
We present a large-scale evaluation of the completeset of forms extracted against the full COMLEX resource.
To our knowledge, this isthe largest and most complete evaluation of subcategorization frames acquired automaticallyfor English.1.
IntroductionIn modern syntactic theories (e.g., lexical-functional grammar [LFG] [Kaplan andBresnan 1982; Bresnan 2001; Dalrymple 2001], head-driven phrase structure gram-mar [HPSG] [Pollard and Sag 1994], tree-adjoining grammar [TAG] [Joshi 1988], andcombinatory categorial grammar [CCG] [Ades and Steedman 1982]), the lexicon isthe central repository for much morphological, syntactic, and semantic information.?
National Centre for Language Technology, School of Computing, Dublin City University, Glasnevin,Dublin 9, Ireland.
E-mail: {rodonovan,mburke,acahill,josef,away}@computing.dcu.ie.?
Centre for Advanced Studies, IBM, Dublin, Ireland.Submission received: 19 March 2004; revised submission received: 18 December 2004; accepted forpublication: 2 March 2005.?
2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Extensive lexical resources, therefore, are crucial in the construction of wide-coveragecomputational systems based on such theories.One important type of lexical information is the subcategorization requirementsof an entry (i.e., the arguments a predicate must take in order to form a grammaticalconstruction).
Lexicons, including subcategorization details, were traditionally pro-duced by hand.
However, as the manual construction of lexical resources is time con-suming, error prone, expensive, and rarely ever complete, it is often the case that thelimitations of NLP systems based on lexicalized approaches are due to bottlenecks inthe lexicon component.
In addition, subcategorization requirements may vary acrosslinguistic domain or genre (Carroll and Rooth 1998).
Manning (1993) argues that, asidefrom missing domain-specific complementation trends, dictionaries produced by handwill tend to lag behind real language use because of their static nature.
Given thesefacts, research on automating acquisition of dictionaries for lexically based NLP sys-tems is a particularly important issue.Aside from the extraction of theory-neutral subcategorization lexicons, there hasalso been work in the automatic construction of lexical resources which complywith the principles of particular linguistic theories such as LTAG, CCG, and HPSG(Chen and Vijay-Shanker 2000; Xia 1999; Hockenmaier, Bierner, and Baldridge 2004;Nakanishi, Miyao, and Tsujii 2004).
In this article we present an approach to auto-mating the process of lexical acquisition for LFG (i.e., grammatical-function-based sys-tems).
However, our approach also generalizes to CFG category-based approaches.
InLFG, subcategorization requirements are enforced through semantic forms specifyingwhich grammatical functions are required by a particular predicate.
Our approach isbased on earlier work on LFG semantic form extraction (van Genabith, Sadler, andWay 1999) and recent progress in automatically annotating the Penn-II and Penn-IIITreebanks with LFG f-structures (Cahill et al 2002; Cahill, McCarthy, et al 2004).
Ourtechnique requires a treebank annotated with LFG functional schemata.
In the earlyapproach of van Genabith, Sadler, and Way (1999), this was provided by manuallyannotating the rules extracted from the publicly available subset of the AP Treebank toautomatically produce corresponding f-structures.
If the f-structures are of high qual-ity, reliable LFG semantic forms can be generated quite simply by recursively readingoff the subcategorizable grammatical functions for each local PRED value at each level ofembedding in the f-structures.
The work reported in van Genabith, Sadler, and Way(1999) was small scale (100 trees) and proof of concept and required considerablemanual annotation work.
It did not associate frames with probabilities, discriminatebetween frames for active and passive constructions, properly reflect the effects oflong-distance dependencies (LDDs), or include CFG category information.
In thisarticle we show how the extraction process can be scaled to the complete WallStreet Journal (WSJ) section of the Penn-II Treebank, with about one million wordsin 50,000 sentences, based on the automatic LFG f-structure annotation algorithmdescribed in Cahill et al (2002) and Cahill, McCarthy, et al (2004).
More recentlywe have extended the extraction approach to the larger, domain-diverse Penn-IIITreebank.
Aside from the parsed WSJ section, this version of the treebank containsparses for a subsection of the Brown corpus (almost 385,000 words in 24,000 trees)taken from a variety of text genres.1 In addition to extracting grammatical-function-1 For the remainder of this work, when we refer to the Penn-II Treebank, we mean the parse-annotated WSJ,and when we refer to the Penn-III Treebank, we mean the parse-annotated WSJ and Brown corpuscombined.330O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical Resourcesbased subcategorization frames, we also include the syntactic categories of the predicateand its subcategorized arguments, as well as additional details such as the prepositionsrequired by obliques and particles accompanying particle verbs.
Our method discrim-inates between active and passive frames, properly reflects LDDs in the source datastructures, assigns conditional probabilities to the semantic forms associated with eachpredicate, and does not predefine the subcategorization frames extracted.In Section 2 of this article, we briefly outline LFG, presenting typical lexical entriesand the encoding of subcategorization information.
Section 3 reviews related work inthe area of automatic subcategorization frame extraction.
Our methodology and itsimplementation are presented in Section 4.
In Section 5 we present results from theextraction process.
We evaluate the complete induced lexicon against the COMLEXresource (Grishman, MacLeod, and Meyers 1994) and present the results in Section 6.To our knowledge, this is by far the largest and most complete evaluation of subcat-egorization frames automatically acquired for English.
In Section 7, we examine thecoverage of our lexicon in regard to unseen data and the rate at which new lexicalentries are learned.
Finally, in Section 8 we conclude and give suggestions for futurework.2.
Subcategorization in LFGLexical functional grammar (Kaplan and Bresnan 1982; Bresnan 2001; Dalrymple2001) is a member of the family of constraint-based grammars.
It posits minimallytwo levels of syntactic representation:2 c(onstituent)-structure encodes details of sur-face syntactic constituency, whereas f(unctional)-structure expresses abstract syntacticinformation about predicate?argument?modifier relations and certain morphosyntacticproperties such as tense, aspect, and case.
C-structure takes the form of phrase structuretrees and is defined in terms of CFG rules and lexical entries.
F-structure is pro-duced from functional annotations on the nodes of the c-structure and implementedin terms of recursive feature structures (attribute?value matrices).
This is exemplifiedby the analysis of the string The inquiry soon focused on the judge (wsj 0267 72) usingthe grammar in Figure 1, which results in the annotated c-structure and f-structure inFigure 2.The value of the PRED attribute in an f-structure is a semantic form ?
?gf1, gf2, .
.
.
,gfn?, where ?
is a lemma and gf a grammatical function.
The semantic form providesan argument list ?gf1,gf2, .
.
.
,gfn?
specifying the governable grammatical functions (orarguments) required by the predicate to form a grammatical construction.
In Figure 1the verb FOCUS requires a subject and an oblique object introduced by the prepositionon: FOCUS?(?
SUBJ)(?
OBLon)?.
The argument list can be empty, as in the PRED valuefor judge in Figure 1.
According to Dalrymple (2001), LFG assumes the following uni-versally available inventory of grammatical functions: SUBJ(ect), OBJ(ect), OBJ?, COMP,XCOMP, OBL(ique)?, ADJ(unct), XADJ.
OBJ?
and OBL?
represent families of grammaticalfunctions indexed by their semantic role, represented by the theta subscript.
This listof grammatical functions is divided into governable (subcategorizable) grammaticalfunctions (arguments) and nongovernable (nonsubcategorizable) grammatical func-tions (modifiers/adjuncts), as summarized in Table 1.2 LFGs may also involve morphological and semantic levels of representation.331Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Figure 1Sample LFG rules and lexical entries.A number of languages allow the possibility of object functions in addition to theprimary OBJ, such as the second or indirect object in English.
Oblique arguments arerealized as prepositional phrases in English.
COMP, XCOMP, and XADJ are all clausalfunctions which differ in the way in which they are controlled.
A COMP is a closedfunction which contains its own internal SUBJ:The judge thinks [COMP that it will resume].XCOMP and XADJ are open functions not requiring an internal SUBJ.
The subject isinstead specified externally in the matrix phrase:The judge wants [XCOMP to open an inquiry].While many linguistic theories state subcategorization requirements in termsof phrase structure (CFG categories), Dalrymple (2001) questions the viability anduniversality of such an approach because of the variety of ways in which grammaticalfunctions may be realized at the language-specific constituent structure level.
LFGargues that subcategorization requirements are best stated at the f-structure level,in functional rather than phrasal terms.
This is because of the assumption thatabstract grammatical functions are primitive concepts as opposed to derivatives332O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical ResourcesFigure 2C- and f-structures for Penn Treebank sentence wsj 0267 72, The inquiry soon focused on the judge.of phrase structural position.
In LFG, the subcategorization requirements of aparticular predicate are expressed by its semantic form: FOCUS?(?
SUBJ)(?
OBLon)?
inFigure 1.The subcategorization requirements expressed by semantic forms are enforced atf-structure level through completeness and coherence well-formedness conditions onf-structure (Kaplan and Bresnan 1982):An f-structure is locally complete iff it contains all the governable grammaticalfunctions that its predicate governs.
An f-structure is complete iff it and all itssubsidiary f-structures are locally complete.
An f-structure is locally coherent iffall the governable grammatical functions that it contains are governed by alocal predicate.
An f-structure is coherent iff it and all its subsidiary f-structuresare locally coherent.
(page 211)Consider again the f-structure in Figure 2.
The semantic form associated withthe verb focus is FOCUS?(?
SUBJ)(?
OBLon)?.
The f-structure is locally complete, as itcontains the SUBJ and an OBL with the preposition on specified by the semanticform.
The f-structure also satisfies the coherence condition, as it does not containany governable grammatical functions other than the SUBJ and OBL required by thelocal PRED.333Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Table 1Governable and nongovernable grammatical functions in LFG.Governable GFs Nongovernable GFsSUBJ ADJOBJ XADJXCOMPCOMPOBJ?OBL?Because of the specific form of the LFG lexicon, our extraction approach differs ininteresting ways from that of previous lexical extraction experiments.
This contrast ismade evident in Sections 3 and 4.3.
Related WorkThe encoding of verb subcategorization properties is an essential step in theconstruction of computational lexicons for tasks such as parsing, generation, andmachine translation.
Creating such a resource by hand is time consuming and errorprone, requires considerable linguistic expertise, and is rarely if ever complete.
Inaddition, a hand-crafted lexicon cannot be easily adapted to specific domains oraccount for linguistic change.
Accordingly, many researchers have attempted toconstruct lexicons automatically, especially for English.
In this section, we discussapproaches to CFG-based subcategorization frame extraction as well as attempts toinduce lexical resources which comply with specific linguistic theories or expressinformation in terms of more abstract predicate-argument relations.
The evaluation ofthese approaches is discussed in greater detail in Section 6, in which we compare ourresults with those reported elsewhere in the literature.We will divide more-general approaches to subcategorization frame acquisitioninto two groups: those which extract information from raw text and those whichuse preparsed and hand-corrected treebank data as their input.
Typically in theapproaches based on raw text, a number of subcategorization patterns are predefined,a set of verb subcategorization frame associations are hypothesized from the data,and statistical methods are applied to reliably select hypotheses for the final lexicon.Brent (1993) relies on morphosyntactic cues in the untagged Brown corpus as indicatorsof six predefined subcategorization frames.
The frames do not include details of specificprepositions.
Brent used hypothesis testing on binomial frequency data to statisticallyfilter the induced frames.
Ushioda et al (1993) run a finite-state NP parser on aPOS-tagged corpus to calculate the relative frequency of the same six subcategoriza-tion verb classes.
The experiment is limited by the fact that all prepositional phrasesare treated as adjuncts.
Ushioda et al (1993) employ an additional statistical methodbased on log-linear models and Bayes?
theorem to filter the extra noise introduced bythe parser and were the first to induce relative frequencies for the extracted frames.Manning (1993) attempts to improve on the approach of Brent (1993) by passing rawtext through a stochastic tagger and a finite-state parser (which includes a set ofsimple rules for subcategorization frame recognition) in order to extract verbs andthe constituents with which they co-occur.
He assumes 19 different subcategorization334O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical Resourcesframe definitions, and the extracted frames include details of specific prepositions.The extracted frames are noisy as a result of parser errors and so are filtered usingthe binomial hypothesis theory (BHT), following Brent (1993).
Applying his techniqueto approximately four million words of New York Times newswire, Manning acquired4,900 verb-subcategorization frame pairs for 3,104 verbs, an average of 1.6 framesper verb.
Briscoe and Carroll (1997) predefine 163 verbal subcategorization frames,obtained by manually merging the classes exemplified in the COMLEX (MacLeod,Grishman, and Meyers 1994) and ANLT (Boguraev et al 1987) dictionaries and addingaround 30 frames found by manual inspection.
The frames incorporate control informa-tion and details of specific prepositions.
Briscoe and Carroll (1997) refine the BHT with apriori information about the probabilities of subcategorization frame membership anduse it to filter the induced frames.
Recent work by Korhonen (2002) on the filteringphase of this approach uses linguistic verb classes (based on Levin [1993]) for obtainingmore accurate back-off estimates for hypothesis selection.
Carroll and Rooth (1998)use a handwritten head-lexicalized, context-free grammar and a text corpus tocompute the probability of particular subcategorization patterns.
The approach isiterative with the aim of estimating the distribution of subcategorization framesassociated with a particular predicate.
They perform a mapping between their framesand those of the OALD, resulting in 15 frame types.
These do not contain details ofspecific prepositions.More recently, a number of researchers have applied similar techniques to auto-matically derive lexical resources for languages other than English.
Schulte im Walde(2002a, 2002b) uses a head-lexicalized probabilistic context-free grammar similar tothat of Caroll and Rooth (1998) to extract subcategorization frames from a largeGerman newspaper corpus from the 1990s.
She predefines 38 distinct frame types,which contain maximally three arguments each and are made up of a combinationof the following: nominative, dative, and accusative noun phrases; reflexive pro-nouns; prepositional phrases; expletive es; subordinated nonfinite clauses; subordinatedfinite clauses; and copula constructions.
The frames may optionally contain details ofparticular prepositional use.
Unsupervised training is performed on a large Germannewspaper corpus, and the resulting probabilistic grammar establishes the relevance ofdifferent frame types to a specific lexical head.
Because of computing time constraints,Schulte im Walde limits sentence length for grammar training and parsing.
Sentencesof length between 5 and 10 words were used to bootstrap the lexicalized grammarmodel.
For lexicalized training, sentences of length between 5 and 13 words wereused.
The result is a subcategorization lexicon for over 14,000 German verbs.
Theextensive evaluation carried out by Schulte im Walde will be discussed in greater detailin Section 6.Approaches using treebank-based data as a source for subcategorization infor-mation, such as ours, do not predefine the frames to be extracted but rather learn themfrom the data.
Kinyon and Prolo (2002) describe a simple tool which uses fine-grainedrules to identify the arguments of verb occurrences in the Penn-II Treebank.
This ismade possible by manual examination of more than 150 different sequences of syntacticand functional tags in the treebank.
Each of these sequences was categorized as amodifier or argument.
Arguments were then mapped to traditional syntactic functions.For example, the tag sequence NP-SBJ denotes a mandatory argument, and its syntacticfunction is subject.
In general, argumenthood was preferred over adjuncthoood.
AsKinyon and Prolo (2002) does not include an evaluation, currently it is impossible tosay how effective their technique is.
Sarkar and Zeman (2000) present an approach tolearn previously unknown frames for Czech from the Prague Dependency Bank (Hajic335Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 31998).
Czech is a language with a freer word order than English and so configurationalinformation cannot be relied upon.
In a dependency tree, the set of all dependentsof the verb make up a so-called observed frame, whereas a subcategorization framecontains a subset of the dependents in the observed frame.
Finding subcategorizationframes involves filtering adjuncts from the observed frame.
This is achieved using threedifferent hypothesis tests: BHT, log-likelihood ratio, and t-score.
The system learns 137subcategorization frames from 19,126 sentences for 914 verbs (those which occurredfive times or more).
Marinov and Hemming (2004) present preliminary work on theautomatic extraction of subcategorization frames for Bulgarian from the BulTreeBank(Simov, Popova, and Osenova 2002).
In a similar way to that of Sarkar and Zeman(2000), Marinov and Hemming?s system collects both arguments and adjuncts.
It thenuses the binomial log-likelihood ratio to filter incorrect frames.
The BulTreebank treesare annotated with HPSG-typed feature structure information and thus contain moredetail than the dependency trees.
The work done for Bulgarian is small-scale, however,as Marinov and Hemming are working with a preliminary version of the treebank with580 sentences.Work has been carried out on the extraction of formalism-specific lexical resourcesfrom the Penn-II Treebank, in particular TAG, CCG, and HPSG.
As these formalisms arefully lexicalized with an invariant (LTAG and CCG) or limited (HPSG) rule component,the extraction of a lexicon essentially amounts to the creation of a grammar.
Chen andVijay-Shanker (2000) explore a number of related approaches to the extraction of alexicalized TAG from the Penn-II Treebank with the aim of constructing a statisticalmodel for parsing.
The extraction procedure utilizes a head percolation table as intro-duced by Magerman (1995) in combination with a variation of Collins?s (1997) approachto the differentiation between complement and adjunct.
This results in the constructionof a set of lexically anchored elementary trees which make up the TAG in question.The number of frame types extracted (i.e., an elementary tree without a specific lexicalanchor) ranged from 2,366 to 8,996.
Xia (1999) also presents a similar method forthe extraction of a TAG from the Penn Treebank.
The extraction procedure consistsof three steps: First, the bracketing of the trees in the Penn Treebank is corrected andextended based on the approaches of Magerman (1994) and Collins (1997).
Then theelementary trees are read off in a quite straightforward manner.
Finally any invalidelementary trees produced as a result of annotation errors in the treebank are filtered outusing linguistic heuristics.
The number of frame types extracted by Xia (1999) rangedfrom 3,014 to 6,099.Hockenmaier, Bierner, and Baldridge (2004) outline a method for the automaticextraction of a large syntactic CCG lexicon from the Penn-II Treebank.
For each tree, thealgorithm annotates the nodes with CCG categories in a top-down recursive manner.The first step is to label each node as either a head, complement, or adjunct basedon the approaches of Magerman (1994) and Collins (1997).
Each node is subsequentlyassigned the relevant category based on its constituent type and surface configuration.The algorithm handles ?like?
coordination and exploits the traces used in the treebankin order to interpret LDDs.
Unlike our approach, those of Xia (1999) and Hockenmaier,Bierner, and Baldridge (2004) include a substantial initial correction and clean-up of thePenn-II trees.Miyao, Ninomiya, and Tsujii (2004) and Nakanishi, Miyao, and Tsujii (2004)describe a methodology for acquiring an English HPSG from the Penn-II Treebank.Manually defined heuristics are used to automatically annotate each tree in the treebankwith partially specified HPSG derivation trees: Head/argument/modifier distinctionsare made for each node in the tree based on Magerman (1994) and Collins (1997);336O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical Resourcesthe whole tree is then converted to a binary tree; heuristics are applied to deal withphenomena such as LDDs and coordination and to correct some errors in the tree-bank, and finally an HPSG category is assigned to each node in the tree in accordancewith its CFG category.
In the next phase of the process (externalization), HPSG lexicalentries are automatically extracted from the annotated trees through the application of?inverse schemata.?4.
MethodologyThe first step in the application of our methodology is the production of a tree-bank annotated with LFG f-structure information.
F-structures are attribute?valuestructures which represent abstract syntactic information, approximating to ba-sic predicate?argument?modifier structures.
Most of the early work on automaticf-structure annotation (e.g., van Genabith, Way, and Sadler 1999; Frank 2000; Sadler,van Genabith, and Way 2000) was applied only to small data sets (fewer than 200sentences) and was largely proof of concept.
However, more recent work (Cahill et al2002; Cahill, McCarthy, et al 2004) has presented efforts in evolving and scaling upannotation techniques to the Penn-II Treebank (Marcus et al 1994), containing morethan 1,000,000 words and 49,000 sentences.We utilize the automatic annotation algorithm of Cahill et al (2002) and Cahill,McCarthy, et al (2004) to derive a version of Penn-II in which each node in eachtree is annotated with LFG functional annotations in the form of attribute-value struc-ture equations.
The algorithm uses categorial, configurational, local head, and Penn-IIfunctional and trace information.
The annotation procedure is dependent on locatingthe head daughter, for which an amended version of Magerman (1994) is used.
Thehead is annotated with the LFG equation ?=?.
Linguistic generalizations are providedover the left (the prefix) and the right (suffix) context of the head for each syntacticcategory occurring as the mother nodes of such heads.
To give a simple example, therightmost NP to the left of a VP head under an S is likely to be the subject of the sen-tence (?
SUBJ =?
), while the leftmost NP to the right of the V head of a VP is mostprobably the verb?s object (?
OBJ =?).
Cahill, McCarthy, et al (2004) provide fourclasses of annotation principles: one for noncoordinate configurations, one for coor-dinate configurations, one for traces (long-distance dependencies), and a final ?catchall and clean up?
phase.The satisfactory treatment of long-distance dependencies by the annotation algo-rithm is imperative for the extraction of accurate semantic forms.
The Penn Treebankemploys a rich arsenal of traces and empty productions (nodes which do not realizeany lexical material) to coindex displaced material with the position where it shouldbe interpreted semantically.
The algorithm of Cahill, McCarthy, et al (2004) translatesthe traces into corresponding reentrancies in the f-structure representation by treatingnull constituents as full nodes and recording the traces in terms of index=i f-structureannotations (Figure 3).
Passive movement is captured and expressed at f-structure levelusing a passive:+ annotation.
Once a treebank tree is annotated with feature structureequations by the annotation algorithm, the equations are collected, and a constraintsolver produces an f-structure.In order to ensure the quality of the semantic forms extracted by our method, wemust first ensure the quality of the f-structure annotations.
The results of two differentevaluations of the automatically generated f-structures are presented in Table 2.
Bothuse the evaluation software and triple encoding presented in Crouch et al (2002).
Thefirst of these is against the DCU 105, a gold-standard set of 105 hand-coded f-structures337Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Figure 3Use of reentrancy between TOPIC and COMP to capture long-distance dependency in PennTreebank sentence wsj 0008 2, Until Congress acts, the government hasn?t any authority to issue newdebt obligations of any kind, the Treasury said.from Section 23 of the Penn Treebank as described in Cahill, McCarthy, et al (2004).
Forthe full set of annotations they achieve precision of over 96.5% and recall of over 96.6%.There is, however, a risk of overfitting when evaluation is limited to a gold standardof this size.
More recently, Burke, Cahill, et al (2004a) carried out an evaluation of theautomatic annotation algorithm against the publicly available PARC 700 DependencyBank (King et al 2003), a set of 700 randomly selected sentences from Section 23which have been parsed, converted to dependency format, and manually correctedand extended by human validators.
They report precision of over 88.5% and recall ofover 86% (Table 2).
The PARC 700 Dependency Bank differs substantially from boththe DCU 105 f-structure bank and the automatically generated f-structures in regard toTable 2Results of f-structure evaluation.DCU 105 PARC 700Precision 96.52% 88.57%Recall 96.62% 86.10%F-score 96.57% 87.32%338O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical Resourcesthe style of linguistic analysis, feature nomenclature, and feature geometry.
Some, butnot all, of these differences are captured by automatic conversion software.
A detaileddiscussion of the issues inherent in this process and a full analysis of results is presentedin Burke, Cahill, et al (2004a).
Results broken down by grammatical function for theDCU 105 evaluation are presented in Table 3.
OBL (prepositional phrase) arguments aretraditionally difficult to annotate reliably.
The results show, however, that with respectto obliques, the annotation algorithm, while slightly conservative (recall of 82%), is veryaccurate: 96% of the time it annotates an oblique, the annotation is correct.A high-quality set of f-structures having been produced, the semantic form ex-traction methodology is applied.
This is based on and substantially extends both thegranularity and coverage of an idea in van Genabith, Sadler, and Way (1999):For each f-structure generated, for each level of embedding we determine the localPRED value and collect the subcategorisable grammatical functions present at that levelof embedding.
(page 72)Consider the automatically generated f-structure in Figure 4 for tree wsj 0003 22in the Penn-II and Penn-III Treebanks.
It is crucial to note that in the automaticallygenerated f-structures the value of the PRED feature is a lemma and not a semanticform.
Exploiting the information contained in the f-structure and applying themethod described above, we recursively extract the following nonempty semanticforms: impose([subj, obj, obl:on]), in([obj]), of([obj]), and on([obj]).
In effect,in both the approach of van Genabith, Sadler, and Way (1999) and our approach,semantic forms are reverse-engineered from automatically generated f-structuresfor treebank trees.
The automatically induced semantic forms contain the followingsubcategorizable syntactic functions:SUBJ OBJ OBJ2 OBLprep OBL2 COMP XCOMP PARTPART is not a syntactic function in the strict sense, but we decided to capture therelevant co-occurrence patterns of verbs and particles in the semantic forms.
Just asTable 3Precision and recall on automatically generated f-structures by feature against the DCU 105.Feature Precision Recall F-scoreADJUNCT 892/968 = 92 892/950 = 94 93COMP 88/92 = 96 88/102 = 86 91COORD 153/184 = 83 153/167 = 92 87DET 265/267 = 99 265/269 = 99 99OBJ 442/459 = 96 442/461 = 96 96OBL 50/52 = 96 50/61 = 82 88OBLAG 12/12 = 100 12/12 = 100 100PASSIVE 76/79 = 96 76/80 = 95 96RELMOD 46/48 = 96 46/50 = 92 94SUBJ 396/412 = 96 396/414 = 96 96TOPIC 13/13 = 100 13/13 = 100 100TOPICREL 46/49 = 94 46/52 = 88 91XCOMP 145/153 = 95 145/146 = 99 97339Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Figure 4Automatically generated f-structure and extracted semantic forms for the Penn-II Treebankstring wsj 0003 22, In July, the Environmental Protection Agency imposed a gradual ban on virtuallyall uses of asbestos.OBLprep includes the prepositional head of the PP, PART includes the actual particlewhich occurs, for example, add([subj, obj, part:up]).In the work presented here, we substantially extend and scale the approach ofvan Genabith, Sadler, and Way (1999) in regard to coverage, granularity, and eval-uation.
First, we scale the approach to the full WSJ section of the Penn-II Treebankand the parsed Brown corpus section of Penn-III, with a combined total of approx-imately 75,000 trees.
Van Genabith, Sadler, and Way (1999) was proof of concept on100 trees.
Second, in contrast to the approach of van Genabith, Sadler, and Way (1999)(and many other approaches), our approach fully reflects long-distance dependencies,indicated in terms of traces in the Penn-II and Penn-III Treebanks and correspond-ing reentrancies at f-structure.
Third, in addition to abstract syntactic-function-based subcategorization frames, we also compute frames for syntactic function?CFGcategory pairs, for both the verbal heads and their arguments, and also generate340O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical ResourcesTable 4Conflation of Penn Treebank tags.Conflated Category Penn Treebank CategoryJJ JJJJRJJSN NNNNSNNPNNPSPRPRB RBRBRRBSV VBVBDVBGVBNVBPVBZMDpure CFG-based subcategorization frames.
Fourth, in contrast to the approach ofvan Genabith, Sadler, and Way (1999) (and many other approaches), our method differ-entiates between frames for active and passive constructions.
Fifth, in contrast to that ofvan Genabith, Sadler, and Way (1999), our method associates conditional probabilitieswith frames.
Sixth, we evaluate the complete set of semantic forms extracted (notjust a selection) against the manually constructed COMLEX (MacLeod, Grishman, andMeyers 1994) resource.In order to capture CFG-based categorial information, we add a CAT feature tothe f-structures automatically generated from the Penn-II and Penn-III Treebanks.
Itsvalue is the syntactic category of the lexical item whose lemma gives rise to the PREDvalue at that particular level of embedding.
This makes it possible to classify wordsand their semantic forms based on their syntactic category and reduces the risk ofinaccurate assignment of subcategorization frame frequencies due to POS ambiguity,distinguishing, for example, between the nominal and verbal occurrences of the lemmafight.
With this, the output for the verb impose in Figure 4 is impose(v,[subj, obj,obl:on]).
For some of our experiments, we conflate the different verbal (and other)tags used in the Penn Treebanks to a single verbal marker (Table 4).
As a furtherextension, the extraction procedure reads off the syntactic category of the head ofeach of the subcategorized syntactic functions: impose(v,[subj(n),obj(n),obl:on]).3In this way, our methodology is able to produce surface syntactic as well as abstractfunctional subcategorization details.
Dalrymple (2001) argues that there are cases,albeit exceptional ones, in which constraints on syntactic category are an issue insubcategorization.
In contrast to much of the work reviewed in Section 3, which limitsitself to the extraction of surface syntactic subcategorization details, our system canprovide this information as well as details of grammatical function.3 We do not associate syntactic categories with OBLs as they are always PPs.341Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Another way in which we develop and extend the basic extraction algorithmis to deal with passive voice and its effect on subcategorization behavior.
ConsiderFigure 5: Not taking into account that the example sentence is a passive construction,the extraction algorithm extracts outlaw([subj]).
This is incorrect, as outlaw is a tran-sitive verb and therefore requires both a subject and an object to form a gram-matical sentence in the active voice.
To cope with this problem, the extraction al-gorithm uses the feature-value pair passive:+, which appears in the f-structure atthe level of embedding of the verb in question, to mark that predicate as occurringin the passive: outlaw([subj],p).
The annotation algorithm?s accuracy in recognizingpassive constructions is reflected by the f-score of 96% reported in Table 3 for thePASSIVE feature.The syntactic functions COMP and XCOMP refer to clausal complements withdifferent predicate control patterns as described in Section 2.
However, as it stands,neither of these functions betrays anything about the syntactic nature of the constructsin question.
Many lexicons, both automatically acquired and manually created, aremore fine grained in their approaches to subcategorized clausal arguments, differ-entiating, for example, between a that-clause and a to + infinitive clause (Ushiodaet al 1993).
With only a slight modification, our system, along with the detailsprovided by the automatically generated f-structures, allows us to extract frameswith an equivalent level of detail.
For example, to identify a that-clause, we useFigure 5Automatically generated f-structure for the Penn-II Treebank string wsj 0003 23.
By 1997, almostall remaining uses of cancer-causing asbestos will be outlawed.342O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical ResourcesTable 5Semantic forms for the verb accept.Semantic form Occurrences Conditional probabilityaccept([subj, obj]) 122 0.813accept ([subj]) 11 0.073accept([subj, comp]) 5 0.033accept([subj, obl:as]) 3 0.020accept([subj, obj, obl:as]) 3 0.020accept([subj, obj, obl:from]) 3 0.020accept([subj, obj, obl:at]) 1 0.007accept([subj, obj, obl:for]) 1 0.007accept([subj, obj, xcomp]) 1 0.007the feature-value pair that:+ at f-structure level to read off the following subcate-gorization frame for the verb add: add([subj,comp(that)]).
Using the feature-value pairto inf:+, we can identify to + infinitive clauses, resulting in the following frame forthe verb want: want([subj,xcomp(to inf)]).
We can also derive control information aboutopen complements.
In Figure 5, the reentrant XCOMP subject is identical to the subjectof will in the matrix clause, which allows us to induce information about the natureof the external control of the XCOMP (i.e., whether it is subject or object control).In order to estimate the likelihood of the co-occurrence of a predicate with a partic-ular argument list, we compute conditional probabilities for subcategorization framesbased on the number of token occurrences in the corpus:P (ArgList|?)
= count(??ArgList?
)?ni=1 count(??ArgListi?
)where ArgList1... ArgListn are the possible argument lists which can occur for ?.
Be-cause of variations in verbal subcategorization across domains, probabilities are alsouseful for predicting the way in which verbs behave in certain contexts.
In Section 6,we use the conditional probabilities to filter possible error judgments by our system.Tables 5?7 show, with varying levels of analysis, the attested semantic forms for theverb accept with their associated conditional probabilities.
The effect of differentiatingbetween the active and passive occurrences of verbs can be seen in the different con-ditional probabilities associated with the intransitive frame ([subj]) of the verb accept(shown in boldface type) in Tables 5 and 6.4 Table 7 shows the joint grammatical-function/syntactic-category-based subcategorization frames.5.
ResultsWe extract semantic forms for 4,362 verb lemmas from Penn-III.
Table 8 shows thenumber of distinct semantic form types (i.e., lemma and argument list combination)4 Given these, it is possible to condition frames on both lemma (?)
and voice (v: active/passive):P (ArgList|?, v) = count(?
?ArgList, v?
)?ni=1 count(?
?ArgListi, v?
)343Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Table 6Semantic forms for the verb accept marked with p for passive use.Semantic form Occurrences Conditional probabilityaccept([subj, obj]) 122 0.813accept ([subj],p) 9 0.060accept([subj, comp]) 5 0.033accept([subj, obl:as],p) 3 0.020accept([subj, obj, obl:as]) 3 0.020accept([subj, obj, obl:from]) 3 0.020accept ([subj]) 2 0.013accept([subj, obj, obl:at]) 1 0.007accept([subj, obj, obl:for]) 1 0.007accept([subj, obj, xcomp]) 1 0.007Table 7Semantic forms for the verb accept including syntactic category for each grammatical function.Semantic form Occurrences Conditional probabilityaccept([subj(n), obj(n)]) 116 0.773accept([subj(n)]) 11 0.073accept([subj(n), comp(that)]) 4 0.027accept([subj(n), obj(n), obl:from]) 3 0.020accept([subj(n), obl:as]) 3 0.020Other 13 0.087extracted.
Discriminating obliques by associated preposition and recording particleinformation, the algorithm finds a total of 21,005 semantic form types, 16,000 occurringin active voice and 5,005 in passive voice.
When the obliques are parameterized forprepositions and particles are included for particle verbs, we find an average of 4.82semantic form types per verb.
Without the inclusion of details for individual preposi-tions or particles, there was an average of 3.45 semantic form types per verb.
Unlikemany of the researchers whose work is reviewed in Section 3, we do not predefine theframes extracted by our system.
Table 9 shows the numbers of distinct frame typesextracted from Penn-II, ignoring PRED values.5 We provide two columns of statistics,one in which all oblique (PP) arguments are condensed into one OBL function andall particle arguments are condensed into part, and the other in which we differen-tiate among obl:to (e.g., give), obl:on (e.g., rely), obl:for (e.g., compensate), etc., andlikewise for particles.
Collapsing obliques and particles into simple functions, we extract38 frame types.
Discriminating particles and obliques by preposition, we extract 577frame types.
Table 10 shows the same results for Penn-III, with 50 simple frame typesand 1,084 types when parameterized for prepositions and particles.
We also show theresult of applying absolute thresholding techniques to the semantic forms induced.Applying an absolute threshold of five occurrences, we still generate 162 frame types5 To recap, if two verbs have the same subcategorization requirements (e.g., give([subj, obj, obj2]),send([subj, obj, obj2])), then that frame [subj, obj, obj2] is counted only once.344O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical ResourcesTable 8Number of semantic form types for Penn-III.Without prepositions and particles With prepositions and particlesSemantic form types 15,166 21,005Active 11,038 16,000Passive 4,128 5,005Table 9Number of frame types for verbs for Penn-II.Without prepositions With prepositionsand particles and particlesNumber of frame types 38 577Number of singletons 1 243Number occurring twice 1 84Number occurring five or fewer times 7 415Number occurring more than five times 31 162from Penn-II and 221 from Penn-III.
Briscoe and Carroll (1997), by comparison, employ163 distinct predefined frames.6.
EvaluationMost of the previous approaches discussed in Section 3 have been evaluated todifferent degrees.
In general, a small number of frequently occurring verbs is selected,and the subcategorization frames extracted for these verbs (from some quantity ofunseen test data) are compared to a gold standard.
The gold standard is either manuallycustom-made based on the test data or adapted from an existing external resourcesuch as the OALD (Hornby 1980) or COMLEX (MacLeod, Grishman, and Meyers1994).
There are advantages and disadvantages to both types of gold standard.
Whileit is time-consuming to manually construct a custom-made standard, the resultingstandard has the advantage of containing only the subcategorization frames exhibitedin the test data.
Using an existing externally produced resource is quicker, but the goldTable 10Number of frame types for verbs for Penn-III.Without prepositions With prepositionsand particles and particlesNumber of frame types 50 1,084Number of singletons 6 544Number occurring twice 2 147Number occurring five or fewer times 12 863Number occurring more than five times 38 221345Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3standard may contain many more frames than those which occur in the data from whichthe test lexicon is induced or, indeed, may omit relevant correct frames contained inthe data.
As a result, systems generally score better against custom-made, manuallyestablished gold standards.Carroll and Rooth (1998) achieve an F-score of 77% against the OALD when theyevaluate a selection of 100 verbs with absolute frequency of greater than 500 each.Their system recognizes 15 frames, and these do not contain details of subcategorized-for prepositions.
Still, to date this is the largest number of verbs used in any of theevaluations of the systems for English described in Section 3.
Sarkar and Zeman (2000)evaluate 914 Czech verbs against a custom-made gold standard and record a tokenrecall of 88%.
However, their evaluation does not examine the extracted subcatego-rization frames but rather the argument?adjunct distinctions posited by their sys-tem.
The largest lexical evaluation we know of is that of Schulte im Walde (2002b)for German.
She evaluates 3,000 German verbs with a token frequency between10 and 2,000 against the Duden (Dudenredaktion 2001).
We will refer to this workand the methods and results presented by Schulte im Walde again in Sections 6.2and 6.3.We carried out a large-scale evaluation of our automatically induced lexicon (2,993active verb lemmas for Penn-II and 3,529 for Penn-III, as well as 1,422 passive verblemmas from Penn-II) against the COMLEX resource.
To our knowledge this is the mostextensive evaluation ever carried out for English lexical extraction.
We conducted anumber of experiments on the subcategorization frames extracted from Penn-II andPenn-III which are described and discussed in Sections 6.2, 6.3, and 6.4.
Finding acommon format for the gold standard and induced lexical entries is a nontrivial task.To ensure that we did not bias the evaluation in favor of either resource, we carriedout two different mappings for the frames from Penn-II and Penn-III: COMLEX-LFGMapping I and COMLEX-LFG Mapping II.
For each mapping we carried out six basicexperiments (and two additional ones for COMLEX-LFG Mapping II) for the activesubcategorization frames extracted.
Within each experiment, the following factors werevaried: level of prepositional phrase detail, level of particle detail, relative threshold(1% or 5%), and incorporation of an expanded set of directional prepositions.
Usingthe second mapping we also evaluated the automatically extracted passive frames andexperimented with absolute thresholds.
Direct comparison of subcategorization frameacquisition systems is difficult because of variations in the number of frames extracted,the number of test verbs, the gold standards used, the size of the test data, and thelevel of detail in the subcategorization frames (e.g., whether they are parameterizedfor specific prepositions).
Therefore, in order to establish a baseline against which tocompare our results, following Schulte in Walde (2002b), we assigned the two mostfrequent frame types (transitive and intransitive) by default to each verb and comparedthis ?artificial?
lexicon to the gold standard.
The section concludes with a full discussionof the reported results.6.1 COMLEXWe evaluate our induced semantic forms against COMLEX (MacLeod, Grishman, andMeyers 1994), a computational machine-readable lexicon containing syntactic infor-mation for approximately 38,000 English headwords.
Its creators paid particularattention to the encoding of more detailed subcategorization information than is avail-able in either the OALD or the LDOCE (Proctor 1978), both for verbs and for nouns346O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical ResourcesFigure 6Intersection between active-verb lemma types in COMLEX and the Penn-II-induced lexicon.and adjectives which take complements (Grishman, MacLeod, and Meyers 1994).
Bychoosing to evaluate against COMLEX, we set our sights high: Our extracted semanticforms are fine-grained, and COMLEX is considerably more detailed than the OALDor LDOCE used for earlier evaluations.
While our system can generate semantic formsfor any lemma (regardless of part of speech) which induces a PRED value, we havethus far evaluated the automatic generation of subcategorization frames for verbsonly.
COMLEX defines 138 distinct verb frame types without the inclusion of specificprepositions or particles.As COMLEX contains information other than subcategorization details, it wasnecessary for us to extract the subcategorization frames associated with each verballexicon entry.
The following is a sample entry for the verb reimburse:(VERB :ORTH ?reimburse?
:SUBC ((NP-NP)(NP-PP :PVAL (?for?
))(NP)))Each entry is organized as a nested set of typed feature-value lists.
The first symbol(i.e., VERB) gives the part of speech.
The value of the :ORTH feature is the base formof the verb.
Any entry with irregular morphological behavior will also include thefeatures :PLURAL, :PAST, and so on, with the relevant values.
All verbs have a :SUBCfeature, and for our purposes, this is the most interesting feature.
In the case of theexample above, the subcategorization values specify that reimburse can occur with twoobject noun phrases (NP-NP), an object noun phrase followed by a prepositional phraseheaded by for (NP-PP :PVAL (?for?))
or just an object noun phrase (NP).
(Note that thedetails of the subject are not included in COMLEX frames.)
What makes the COMLEXresource particularly suitable for our evaluation is that each of the complement types(NP-NP, NP-PP, and NP) which make up the value of the :SUBC feature is associated witha formal frame definition which looks like the following:(vp-frame np-np :cs ((np 2)(np 3)):gs (:subject 1 :obj 2 :obj2 3):ex ?she asked him his name?
)The value of the :cs feature is the constituent structure of the subcategorizationframe, which lists the syntactic CF-PSG constituents in sequence (omitting the sub-ject, again).
The value of the :gs feature is the grammatical structure which indicatesthe functional role played by each of the CF-PSG constituents.
The elements of the347Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Figure 7Intersection between active-verb lemma types in COMLEX and the Penn-III-induced lexicon.constituent structure are indexed, and these indices are referenced in the :gs field.The index 1 always refers to the surface subject of the verb.
This mapping betweenconstituent structure and functional structure makes the information contained inCOMLEX particularly suitable as an evaluation standard for the LFG semantic formswhich we induce.We present the evaluation for the verbs which occur in an active context in thetreebank.
COMLEX does not provide passive frames.
For Penn-II, there are 2,993verb lemmas (used actively) that both resources have in common.
2,669 verb lemmasappear in COMLEX but not in the induced lexicon, and 416 verb lemmas (used actively)appear in the induced lexicon but not in COMLEX (Figure 6).
For Penn-III, COMLEXand the induced lexicon share 3,529 verb lemmas (used actively).
This is shown inFigure 7.
66.2 COMLEX-LFG Mapping I and Penn-IIIn order to carry out the evaluation, we have to find a common format for the expressionof subcategorization information between our induced LFG-style subcategorizationframes and those contained in COMLEX.
The following are the common syntacticfunctions: SUBJ, OBJ, OBJi, COMP, and PART.
Unlike our system, COMLEX does notdistinguish an OBL from an OBJi, so we converted all the obliques in the induced framesto OBJi.
As in COMLEX, the value of i depends on the number of objects/obliquesalready present in the semantic form.
COMLEX does not differentiate between COMPsand XCOMPs as our system does (control information is expressed in a different way:see Section 6.3), so we conflate our two LFG categories to that of COMP.
The process issummarized in Table 11.The manually constructed COMLEX entries provide a gold standard against whichwe evaluate the automatically induced frames.
We calculate the number of true pos-itives (tps) (where our semantic forms and those from COMLEX are the same), thenumber of false negatives ( fns) (those frames which appeared in COMLEX but were notproduced by our system), and the number of false positives ( fps) (those frames6 Given these figures, one might begin to wonder about the value of automatic induction.
First, COMLEXdoes not rank frames by probabilities, which are essential in disambiguation.
Second, the coverage ofCOMLEX is not complete: 518 lemmas ?discovered?
by the induction experiment are not listed inCOMLEX; see the error analysis in Section 6.5.348O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical ResourcesTable 11Mapping I: Merging of COMLEX and LFG syntactic functions.Our syntactic functions COMLEX syntactic functions Merged functionSUBJ Subject SUBJOBJ Object OBJOBJ2 Obj2 OBJiOBL Obj3OBL2 Obj4COMP Comp COMPXCOMPPART Part PARTproduced by our system which do not appear in COMLEX).
We calculate precision,recall, and F-score using the following standard equations:recall =tptp + fnprecision =tptp + fpf-score =2 ?
recall ?
precisionrecall + precisionWe use the frequencies associated with each of our semantic forms in order to seta relative threshold to filter the selection of semantic forms.
For a threshold of 1% wedisregard any semantic forms with a conditional probability (i.e., given a lemma) ofless than or equal to 0.01.
As some verbs occur less frequently than others, we think itis important to use a relative rather than absolute threshold (as in Carroll and Rooth[1998], for instance) in this way.
We carried out the evaluation in a similar way toSchulte im Walde?s (2002b) for German, the only experiment comparable in scale toours.
Despite the obvious differences in approach and language, this allows us to makesome tentative comparisons between our respective results.
The statistics shown inTable 12 give the results of three different experiments with the relative threshold setto 1%.
As for all the results tables, the baseline statistics (simply assigning the mostfrequent frames, in this case transitive and intransitive, to each lemma by default) arein each case shown in the left column, and the results achieved by our induced lexiconare presented in the right column.
Distinguishing between complement and adjunctprepositional phrases is a notoriously difficult aspect of automatic subcategorizationframe acquisition.
For this reason, following the evaluation setup in Schulte im Walde(2002b), the three experiments vary with respect to the amount of prepositional infor-mation contained in the subcategorization frames.Experiment 1.
Here we excluded subcategorized prepositional-phrase arguments en-tirely from the comparison.
In a manner similar to that of Schulte im Walde (2002b), any349Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Table 12Results of Penn-II evaluation of active frames against COMLEX (relative threshold of 1%).Precision Recall F-scoreMapping I Baseline Induced Baseline Induced Baseline InducedExperiment 1 66.1% 75.2% 65.8% 69.1% 66.0% 72.0%Experiment 2 71.5% 65.5% 64.3% 63.1% 67.7% 64.3%Experiment 3 64.7% 71.8% 11.9% 16.8% 20.1% 27.3%frames containing an OBL were mapped to the same frame type minus that argument.For example, the frame [subj,obl:for] becomes [subj].
Using a relative threshold of1% (Table 12), our results (precision of 75.2%, recall of 69.1%, and F-score of 72.0%)are remarkably similar to those of Schulte im Walde (2002b), who reports precision of74.53%, recall of 69.74%, and an f-score of 72.05%.Experiment 2.
Here we include subcategorized prepositional phrase arguments butonly in their simplest form; that is, they were not parameterized for particular prepo-sitions.
For example, the frame [subj,obl:for] is rewritten as [subj,obl].
Using arelative threshold of 1% (Table 12), our results (precision of 65.5%, recall of 63.1%, andF-score of 64.3%) compare favorably to those of Schulte im Walde (2002b), who recordedprecision of 60.76%, recall of 63.91%, and an F-score of 62.30%.Experiment 3.
Here we used semantic forms which contain details of specific prepo-sitions for any subcategorized prepositional phrase (e.g., [subj,obl:for]).
Using a rela-tive threshold of 1% (Table 12), our precision figure (71.8%) is quite high (in comparisonto 65.52% as recorded by Schulte im Walde [2002b]).
However our recall (16.8%) is verylow (compared to the 50.83% that Schulte im Walde [2002b] reports).
Consequently ourF-score (27.3%) is also low (Schulte im Walde [2002b] records an F-score of 57.24%).
Thereason for this is discussed in Section 6.2.1.The statistics in Table 13 are the result of the second experiment, in which therelative threshold was increased to 5%.
The effect of such an increase is obvious inthat precision goes up (by as much as 5%) for each of the three evaluations whilerecall goes down (by as much as 5.5%).
This is to be expected, as a greater thresholdmeans that there are fewer semantic forms associated with each verb in the inducedlexicon, but they are more likely to be correct because of their greater frequency ofoccurrence.
The conditional probabilities we associate with each semantic form togetherwith thresholding can be used to customize the induced lexicon to the task for whichit is required, that is, whether a very precise lexicon is preferred to one with broaderTable 13Results of Penn-II evaluation of active frames against COMLEX (relative threshold of 5%).Precision Recall F-scoreMapping I Baseline Induced Baseline Induced Baseline InducedExperiment 1 66.1% 80.2% 65.8% 63.6% 66.0% 70.9%Experiment 2 71.5% 69.6% 64.3% 56.9% 67.7% 62.7%Experiment 3 64.7% 76.7% 11.9% 13.9% 20.1% 23.5%350O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical Resourcescoverage.
In Tables 12 and 13, the baseline is exceeded in all experiments with theexception of Experiment 2.
This can be attributed to Mapping I, in which OBLi becomesOBJi (Table 11).
Experiment 2 includes obliques without the specific preposition, mean-ing that in this mapping, the frame [subj,obj:with] becomes [subj,obj].
Therefore,the transitive baseline frame scores better than it should against the gold standard.
Amore fine-grained LFG-COMLEX mapping in which this effect disappears is presentedin Section 6.3.6.2.1 Directional Prepositions.
Our recall statistic was particularly low in the case ofevaluation using details of prepositions (Experiment 3, Tables 12 and 13).
This can beaccounted for by the fact that the creators of COMLEX have chosen to err on the sideof overgeneration in regard to the list of prepositions which may occur with a verb anda subcategorization frame containing a prepositional phrase.
This is particularly trueof directional prepositions.
For COMLEX, a list of 31 directional prepositions (Table 14)was prepared and assigned in its entirety by default to any verb which can potentiallyappear with any directional preposition in order to save time and avoid the risk ofmissing prepositions.
Grishman, MacLeod, and Meyers (1994) acknowledge that thiscan lead to a preposition list which is ?a little rich?
for a particular verb, but this isthe approach they have chosen to take.
In a subsequent experiment, we incorporatedthis list of directional prepositions by default into our semantic form induction processin the same way as the creators of COMLEX have done.
Table 15 shows that doingso results in a significant improvement in the recall statistic (45.1%), as would beexpected, with the new statistic being almost three times as good as the result re-ported in Table 12 for Experiment 3 (16.8%).
There is also an improvement in theprecision figure (from 71.8% to 86.9%).
This is due to a substantial increase in thenumber of true positives (from 5,612 to 14,675) compared with a stationary false pos-itive figure (2,205 in both cases).
The f-score increases from 27.3% to 59.4%.6.3 COMLEX-LFG Mapping II and Penn-IIThe COMLEX-LFG Mapping I presented above establishes a ?least common denomi-nator?
for the COMLEX and our LFG-inspired resources.
More-fine-grained mappingsare possible: in order to ensure that the mapping from our semantic forms to theCOMLEX frames did not oversimplify the information in the automatically extractedsubcategorization frames, we conducted a further set of experiments in which weconverted the information in the COMLEX entries to the format of our extractedsemantic forms.
We explicitly differentiated between OBLs and OBJs by automaticallyTable 14COMLEX directional prepositions.about across along aroundbehind below beneath betweenbeyond by down fromin inside into offon onto out out ofoutside over past throughthroughout to toward towardup up to via351Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Table 15Penn-II evaluation of active frames against COMLEX using p-dir list (relative threshold of 1%).Mapping I Precision Recall F-scoreExperiment 3 86.9% 45.1% 59.4%deducing whether a COMLEX OBJi was coindexed with an NP or a PP.
Furthermore, ascan be seen in the following example, COMLEX frame definitions contain details of thecontrol patterns of sentential complements, encoded using the :features attribute.
Thisallows for automatic discrimination between COMPs and XCOMPs.
(vp-frame to-inf-sc :cs (vp 2 :mood to-infinitive :subject 1):features (:control subject):gs (:subject 1 :comp 2):ex ?I wanted to come?
)The mapping is summarized in Table 16.
The results of the subsequent evaluation arepresented in Tables 17 and 18.
We have added Experiments 2a and 3a.
These are thesame as Experiments 2 and 3, except that they additionally include the specific particlewith each PART function.
While the recall figures in Tables 17 and 18 are slightly lowerthan those in Tables 12 and 13, changing the mapping in this way results in an increasein precision in each case (by as much as 11.6%).
The results of the lexical evaluationare consistently better than the baseline, in some cases by almost 16% (Experiment 2,threshold 5%).
Notice that in contrast to Tables 12 and 13, in the more-fine-grainedCOMLEX-LFG Mapping II presented here, all experiments exceed the baseline.6.3.1 Directional Prepositions.
The recall figures for Experiments 3 and 3a in Table 17(24.0% and 21.5%) and Table 18 (19.7% and 17.4%) drop in a similar fashion to the resultsseen in Tables 12 and 13.
For this reason, we again incorporated the list of 31 directionalprepositions (Table 14) by default and reran Experiments 3 and 3a for a threshold of1%.
The results are presented in Table 19.
The effect was as expected: The recall scoresfor the two experiments increased to 40.8% and 35.4% (from 24.0% and 22.5%), and theF-scores increased to 54.4% and 49.7% (from 35.9% and 33.0%).6.3.2 Passive Evaluation.
Table 20 presents the results of evaluating the extracted pas-sive semantic forms for 1,422 verb lemmas shared by the induced lexicon and COMLEX.Table 16Mapping II: Merging of COMLEX and LFG syntactic functions.Our syntactic functions COMLEX syntactic functions Merged functionSUBJ Subject SUBJOBJ Object OBJOBJ2 Obj2 OBJ2OBL Obj3 OBLOBL2 Obj4 OBL2COMP Comp COMPXCOMP Comp XCOMPPART Part PART352O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical ResourcesTable 17Results of Penn-II evaluation of active frames against COMLEX (relative threshold of 1%).Precision Recall F-scoreMapping II Baseline Induced Baseline Induced Baseline InducedExperiment 1 72.1% 79.0% 58.5% 59.6% 64.6% 68.0%Experiment 2 65.2% 77.1% 37.4% 50.4% 47.5% 61.0%Experiment 2a 65.2% 76.4% 32.7% 44.5% 43.6% 56.3%Experiment 3 65.2% 75.9% 15.2% 24.0% 24.7% 35.9%Experiment 3a 65.2% 71.0% 13.6% 21.5% 22.5% 33.0%Table 18Results of Penn-II evaluation of active frames against COMLEX (relative threshold of 5%).Precision Recall F-scoreMapping II Baseline Induced Baseline Induced Baseline InducedExperiment 1 72.1% 83.5% 58.5% 54.7% 64.6% 66.1%Experiment 2 65.2% 81.4% 37.4% 44.8% 47.5% 57.8%Experiment 2a 65.2% 80.9% 32.7% 39.0% 43.6% 52.6%Experiment 3 65.2% 75.9% 15.2% 19.7% 24.7% 31.3%Experiment 3a 65.2% 75.5% 13.6% 17.4% 22.5% 28.3%We applied lexical-redundancy rules (Kaplan and Bresnan 1982) to automatically con-vert the active COMLEX frames to their passive counterparts: For example, subjects aredemoted to optional by oblique agents, and direct objects become subjects.
The resultingprecision was very high (from 72.3% to 80.2%), and there was the expected drop in recallwhen prepositional details were included (from 54.7% to 29.3%).Table 19Penn-II evaluation of active frames against COMLEX using p-dir list (relative threshold of 1%).Mapping II Precision Recall F-scoreExperiment 3 81.7% 40.8% 54.4%Experiment 3a 83.1% 35.4% 49.7%Table 20Results of Penn-II evaluation of passive frames (relative threshold of 1%).Passive Precision Recall F-scoreExperiment 2 80.2% 54.7% 65.1%Experiment 2a 79.7% 46.2% 58.5%Experiment 3 72.6% 33.4% 45.8%Experiment 3a 72.3% 29.3% 41.7%353Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 36.3.3 Absolute Thresholds.
Many of the previous approaches discussed in Section 3 usea limited number of verbs for evaluation, based on the verbs?
absolute frequency in thecorpus.
We carried out a similar experiment.
Table 21 shows the results of Experiment2 for all verbs, for the verb lemmas with an absolute frequency greater than 100, andfor verbs with a frequency greater than 200.
The use of an absolute threshold resultsin an increase in precision (from 77.1% to 82.3% and 81.7%), an increase in recall (from50.4% to 60.8% to 58.7%), and an overall increase in F-score (from 61.0% to 69.9%and 68.4%).6.4 Penn-III (Mapping-II)Recently we have applied our methodology to the Penn-III Treebank, a more balancedcorpus resource with a number of text genres.
Penn-III consists of the WSJ section fromPenn-II as well as a parse-annotated subset of the Brown corpus.
The Brown corpuscomprises 24,242 trees compiled from a variety of text genres including popular lore,general fiction, science fiction, mystery and detective fiction, and humor.
It has beenshown (Roland and Jurafsky 1998) that the subcategorization tendencies of verbs varyacross linguistic domains.
Our aim, therefore, is to increase the scope of the inducedlexicon not only in terms of the verb lemmas for which there are entries, but also interms of the frames with which they co-occur.
The f-structure annotation algorithm wasextended with only minor amendments to cover the parsed Brown corpus.
The mostimportant of these was the way in which we distinguish between oblique and adjunct.We noted in Section 4 that our method of assigning an oblique annotation in Penn-IIwas precise, albeit conservative.
Because of a change of annotation policy in Penn-III,the -CLR tag (indicating a close relationship between a PP and the local syntactic head),information which we had previously exploited, is no longer used.
For Penn-III thealgorithm annotates all PPs which do not carry a Penn adverbial functional tag (suchas -TMP or -LOC) and occur as the sisters of the verbal head of a VP as obliques.In addition, the algorithm annotates as obliques PPs associated with -PUT (locativecomplements of the verb put) or -DTV (second object in ditransitives) tags.When evaluating the application of the lexical extraction system on Penn-III, wecarried out two sets of experiments, identical in each case to those described for Penn-IIin Section 6.3, including the use of relative (1% and 5%) rather than absolute thresholds.For the first set of experiments we evaluated the lexicon induced from the parse-annotated Brown corpus only.
This evaluation was performed for 2,713 active-verblemmas using the more fine-grained Mapping-II.
Tables 22 and 23 show that the resultsgenerally exceed the baseline, in some cases by almost 10%, similar to those recordedfor Penn-II (Tables 17 and 18).
While the precision is slightly lower than that re-ported for the experiments in Tables 17 and 18, in particular for Experiments 2, 2a, 3,Table 21Penn-II evaluation of active frames against COMLEX using absolute thresholds (Experiment 2).Threshold Precision Recall F-scoreAll 77.1% 50.4% 61.0%Threshold 100 82.3% 60.8% 69.9%Threshold 200 81.7% 58.7% 68.4%354O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical ResourcesTable 22Results of Penn-III active frames (Brown Corpus only) COMLEX comparison (relative thresholdof 1%).Precision Recall F-ScoreMapping II Baseline Induced Baseline Induced Baseline InducedExperiment 1 73.2% 79.2% 60.1% 60.0% 66.0% 68.2%Experiment 2 66.0% 70.5% 37.5% 50.5% 47.8% 58.9%Experiment 2a 66.0% 71.3% 32.7% 44.5% 43.7% 54.8%Experiment 3 66.0% 64.3% 15.2% 23.1% 24.8% 34.0%Experiment 3a 66.0% 64.1% 13.5% 20.7% 22.4% 31.3%and 3a, in which details of obliques are included, the recall in each of these experi-ments is slightly higher than that recorded for Penn-II.
We conjecture that the mainreason for this is that the amended approach to the annotation of obliques is slightlyless precise and conservative than the largely -CLR-tag-driven approach taken forPenn-II.
Consequently we record an increase in recall and a drop in precision.
Thistrend is repeated in the second set of experiments.
In this instance, we combined thelexicon extracted from the WSJ with that extracted from the parse-annotated Browncorpus, and evaluated the resulting resource for 3,529 active-verb lemmas.
The resultsare shown in Tables 24 and 25.
The results compare very positively against the baseline.The precision scores are lower (by between 1.5% and 9.7%) than those reported forPenn-II (Tables 17 and 18).
There has however been a significant increase in recall (up to8.7%) and an overall increase in F-score (by up to 4.4%).6.5 Error Analysis and DiscussionThe work presented in this section highlights a number of issues associated with theevaluation of automatically induced subcategorization frames against an existing exter-nal gold standard, in this case COMLEX.
While this evaluation approach is arguablyless labor-intensive than the manual construction of a custom-made gold standard,it does introduce a number of difficulties into the evaluation procedure.
It is anontrivial task to convert both the gold standard and the induced resource to a commonTable 23Results of Penn-III active frames (Brown corpus only) COMLEX comparison (relative thresholdof 5%).Precision Recall F-scoreMapping II Baseline Induced Baseline Induced Baseline InducedExperiment 1 73.2% 82.7% 60.1% 56.4% 66.0% 67.0%Experiment 2 66.0% 74.6% 37.5% 46.1% 47.8% 57.0%Experiment 2a 66.0% 76.0% 32.7% 40.0% 43.7% 52.4%Experiment 3 66.0% 69.2% 15.2% 18.7% 24.8% 29.5%Experiment 3a 66.0% 69.0% 13.5% 16.6% 22.4% 26.7%355Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Table 24Results of Penn-III active frames (Brown and WSJ) COMLEX comparison (relative threshold of1%).Precision Recall F-scoreMapping II Baseline Induced Baseline Induced Baseline InducedExperiment 1 71.2% 77.4% 62.9% 66.2% 66.8% 71.4%Experiment 2 64.5% 70.4% 40.0% 58.0% 49.3% 63.6%Experiment 2a 64.5% 71.5% 35.1% 51.9% 45.5% 60.2%Experiment 3 64.5% 66.2% 17.0% 27.4% 26.8% 38.8%Experiment 3a 64.5% 66.0% 15.1% 24.8% 24.5% 36.0%format in order to facilitate evaluation.
In addition, as our results show, the choiceof common format and mapping to it can affect the results.
In COMLEX-LFG Map-ping I (Section 6.2), we found that mapping from the induced lexicon to COMLEXresulted in higher recall scores than those achieved when we (effectively) reversed themapping (COMLEX-LFG Mapping II [Section 6.3]).
The first mapping is essentially aconflation of our more fine-grained LFG grammatical functions with the more genericCOMLEX functions, while the second mapping tries to maintain as many distinctionsas possible.Another drawback to using an existing external gold standard such as COMLEXto evaluate an automatically induced subcategorization lexicon is that the resourcesare not necessarily constructed from the same source data.
As noted above, it is well doc-umented (Roland and Jurafsky 1998) that subcategorization frames (and their frequen-cies) vary across domains.
We have extracted frames from two sources (the WSJ and theBrown corpus), whereas COMLEX was built using examples from the San Jose MercuryNews, the Brown corpus, several literary works from the Library of America, scientificabstracts from the U.S. Department of Energy, and the WSJ.
For this reason, it is likelyto contain a greater variety of subcategorization frames than our induced lexicon.
It isalso possible that because of human error, COMLEX contains subcategorization framesthe validity of which are in doubt, for example, the overgeneration of subcategorized-fordirectional prepositional phrases.
This is because the aim of the COMLEX project was toconstruct as complete a set of subcategorization frames as possible, even for infrequentverbs.
Lexicographers were allowed to extrapolate from the citations found, a procedureTable 25Results of Penn-III active frames (Brown and WSJ) COMLEX comparison (relative threshold of5%).Precision Recall F-scoreMapping II Baseline Induced Baseline Induced Baseline InducedExperiment 1 71.2% 82.0% 62.9% 61.0% 66.8% 69.9%Experiment 2 64.5% 74.3% 40.0% 53.5% 49.3% 62.2%Experiment 2a 64.5% 76.4% 35.1% 45.1% 45.5% 56.7%Experiment 3 64.5% 71.1% 17.0% 21.5% 26.8% 33.0%Experiment 3a 64.5% 70.8% 15.1% 19.2% 24.5% 30.2%356O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical Resourceswhich is bound to be less certain than the assignment of frames based entirely on exist-ing examples.
As a generalization, Briscoe (2001) notes that lexicons such as COMLEXtend to demonstrate high precision but low recall.
Briscoe and Carroll (1997) reporton manually analyzing an open-class vocabulary of 35,000 head words for predicatesubcategorization information and comparing the results against the subcategorizationdetails in COMLEX.
Precision was quite high (95%), but recall was low (84%).
This hasan effect on both the precision and recall scores of our system against COMLEX.
In orderto ascertain the effect of using COMLEX as a gold standard for our induced lexicon,we carried out some more-detailed error analysis, the results of which are summarizedin Table 26.
We randomly selected 80 false negatives (fn) and 80 false positives (fp)across a range of active frame types containing prepositional and particle detail takenfrom Penn-III and manually examined them in order to classify them as ?correct?
or?incorrect.?
Of the 80 fps, 33 were manually judged to be legitimate subcategorizationframes.
For example, as Table 26 shows, there are a number of correct transitive verbs([subj,obj]) in our automatically induced lexicon which are not included in COMLEX.This examination was also useful in highlighting to us the frame types on whichthe lexical extraction procedure was performing poorly, in our case, those containingXCOMPs and those containing OBJ2S.
Out of 80 fns, 14 were judged to be incorrect whenmanually examined.
These can be broken down as follows: one intransitive frame, threeditransitive frames, three frames containing a COMP, and seven frames containing anoblique were found to be invalid.7.
Lexical Accession RatesIn addition to evaluating the quality of our extracted semantic forms, we also examinedthe rate at which they are induced.
This can be expressed as a measure of the coverageof the induced lexicon on new data.
Following Hockenmaier, Bierner, and Baldridge(2002), Xia (1999), and Miyao, Ninomiya, and Tsujii (2004), we extract a referencelexicon from Sections 02?21 of the WSJ.
We then compare this to a test lexicon fromSection 23.
Table 27 shows the results of the evaluation of the coverage of an inducedlexicon for verbs only.
There is a corresponding semantic form in the reference lexiconfor 89.89% of the verbs in Section 23.
10.11% of the entries in the test lexicon did notappear in the reference lexicon.
Within this group, we can distinguish between knownwords, which have an entry in the reference lexicon, and unknown words, which donot exist at all in the reference lexicon.
In the same way we make the distinctionTable 26Error analysis.Frame type COMLEX: False negatives Induced: False positivesCorrect Incorrect Correct Incorrect[subj] 9 1 4 6[subj, obj] 10 0 9 1[subj, obj, obj2] 7 3 1 9[.., xcomp, ..] 10 0 1 10[.., comp, ..] 7 3 4 5[.., obl, ..] 23 7 14 16357Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Table 27Coverage of induced lexicon (WSJ 02?21) on unseen data (WSJ 23) (verbs only).Entries also in reference lexicon 89.89%Entries not in reference lexicon 10.11%Known words 7.85%Known words, known frames 7.85%Known words, unknown frames 0Unknown words 2.32%Unknown words, known frames 2.32%Unknown words, unknown frames 0between known frames and unknown frames.
There are, therefore, four different casesin which an entry may not appear in the reference lexicon.
Table 27 shows that themost common case is that of known verbs occurring with a different, although known,subcategorization frame (7.85%).The rate of accession may also be represented graphically.
In Charniak (1996) andKrotov et al (1998), it was observed that treebank grammars (CFGs extracted fromtreebanks) are very large and grow with the size of the treebank.
We were interested indiscovering whether the acquisition of lexical material from the same data displayed asimilar propensity.
Figure 8 graphs the rate of induction of semantic form and CFG ruletypes from Penn-III (the WSJ and parse-annotated Brown corpus combined).
Becauseof the variation in the size of sections between the Brown and the WSJ, we plottedaccession against word count.
The first part of the graph (up to 1,004,414 words)Figure 8Comparison of accession rates for semantic form and CFG rule types for Penn-III (nonemptyframes) (WSJ followed by Brown).358O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical Resourcesrepresents the rate of accession from the WSJ, and the final 384,646 words are thoseof the Brown corpus.
The seven curves represent the following: The acquisition ofsemantic form types (nonempty) for all syntactic categories with and without specificpreposition and particle information, the acquisition of semantic form types (non-empty) for all verbs with and without specific preposition and particle information,the number of lemmas associated with the extract semantic forms, and the acqui-sition of CFG rule types.
The curve representing the growth in the overall size ofthe lexicon is similar in shape to that of the PCFG, while the rate of increase inthe number of verbal semantic forms (particularly when obliques and particles areexcluded) appears to slow more quickly.
Figure 8 shows the effect of domain di-versity from the Brown section in terms of increased growth rates for 1e+06 wordsupward.
Figure 9 depicts the same information, this time extracted from the Brownsection first followed by the WSJ.
The curves are different, but similar trends arerepresented.
This time the effects of domain diversity for the Brown section arediscernible by comparing the absolute accession rate for the 0.4e+06 mark betweenFigures 8 and 9.Figure 10 shows the result when we abstract away from semantic forms (verbframe combinations) to subcategorization frames and plot their rate of acces-sion.
The graph represents the growth rate of frame types for Penn-III (WSJ fol-lowed by Brown and Brown followed by WSJ).
The curve rises sharply initiallybut gradually levels, practically flattening out, despite the increase in the numberof words.
This reflects the information about Section 23 in Table 27, where we demon-strate that although new verb frame combinations occur, all of the frame types inSection 23 have been seen by the lexical extraction program in previous sections.Figure 9Comparison of accession rates for semantic form and CFG rule types for Penn-III (nonemptyframes) (Brown followed by WSJ).359Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3Figure 10Accession rates for frame types (without prepositions and particles) for Penn-III.Figure 11 shows that including information about prepositions and particles in theframes results in an accession rate which continues to grow, albeit ever more slowly,with the increase in size of the extraction data.
This emphasizes the advantage of ourapproach, which extracts frames containing such information without the limitationof predefinition.Figure 11Accession rates for frame types for Penn-III.360O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical Resources8.
Conclusions and Further WorkWe have presented an algorithm for the extraction of semantic forms (or subcatego-rization frames) from the Penn-II and Penn-III Treebanks, automatically annotated withLFG f-structures.
In contrast to many other approaches, ours does not predefine the sub-categorization frames we extract.
We have applied the algorithm to the WSJ sections ofPenn-II (50,000 trees) (O?Donovan et al 2004) and to the parse-annotated Brown corpusof Penn-III (almost 25,000 additional trees).
We extract syntactic-function-based subcat-egorization frames (LFG semantic forms) and traditional CFG category-based frames, aswell as mixed-function-category-based frames.
Unlike many other approaches to sub-categorization frame extraction, our system properly reflects the effects of long-distancedependencies.
Also unlike many approaches, our method distinguishes between activeand passive frames.
Finally, our system associates conditional probabilities with theframes we extract.
Making the distinction between the behavior of verbs in active andpassive contexts is particularly important for the accurate assignment of probabilitiesto semantic forms.
We carried out an extensive evaluation of the complete inducedlexicon against the full COMLEX resource.
To our knowledge, this is the most extensivequalitative evaluation of subcategorization extraction in English.
The only evaluation ofa similar scale is that carried out by Schulte im Walde (2002b) for German.
The resultsreported here for Penn-II compare favorably against the baseline and, in fact, are animprovement on those reported in O?Donovan et al (2004).
The results for the larger,more domain-diverse Penn-III lexicon are very encouraging, in some cases almost 15%above the baseline.
We believe our semantic forms are fine-grained, and by choosingto evaluate against COMLEX, we set our sights high: COMLEX is considerably moredetailed than the OALD or LDOCE used for other earlier evaluations.
Our error analysisalso revealed some interesting issues associated with using an external standard such asCOMLEX.
In the future, we hope to evaluate the automatic annotations and extractedlexicon against Propbank (Kingsbury and Palmer 2002).Apart from the related approach of Miyao, Ninomiya, and Tsujii (2004), whichdoes not distinguish between argument and adjunct prepositional phrases, ourtreebank and automatic f-structure annotation-based architecture for the automaticacquisition of detailed subcategorization frames is quite unlike any of the architec-tures presented in the literature.
Subcategorization frames are reverse-engineered andalmost a byproduct of the automatic f-structure annotation algorithm.
It is importantto realize that the induction of lexical resources is part of a larger project on theacquisition of wide-coverage, robust, probabilistic, deep unification grammar resourcesfrom treebanks Burke, Cahill, et al (2004b).
We are already using the extracted seman-tic forms in parsing new text with robust, wide-coverage probabilistic LFG grammarapproximations automatically acquired from the f-structure-annotated Penn-II tree-bank, specifically in the resolution of LDDs, as described in Cahill, Burke, et al (2004).We hope to be able to apply our lexical acquisition methodology beyond existingparse-annotated corpora (Penn-II and Penn-III): New text is parsed by our probabilisticLFG approximations into f-structures from which we can then extract further seman-tic forms.
The work reported here is part of the core components for bootstrappingthis approach.In the shorter term, we intend to make the extracted subcategorization lexicons fromPenn-II and Penn-III available as a downloadable public-domain research resource.We have also applied our more general unification grammar acquisition meth-odology to the TIGER Treebank (Brants et al 2002) and Penn Chinese Treebank(Xue, Chiou, and Palmer 2002), extracting wide-coverage, probabilistic LFG grammar361Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3approximations and lexical resources for German (Cahill et al 2003) and Chinese(Burke, Lam, et al 2004).
The lexical resources, however, have not yet been evaluated.This, and much else, has to await further research.AcknowledgmentsThe research reported here is partiallysupported by Enterprise Ireland BasicResearch Grant SC/2001/186, an IRCSETPhD fellowship award, and an IBM PhDfellowship award.
We are particularlygrateful to our anonymous reviewers, whoseinsightful comments have helped to improvethis article considerably.ReferencesAdes, Anthony and Mark Steedman.
1982.On the order of words.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, 4(4):517?
558.Boguraev, Branimir, Edward Briscoe,John Carroll, David Carter, andClaire Grover.
1987.
The derivation ofa grammatically indexed lexicon fromthe Longman Dictionary of ContemporaryEnglish.
In Proceedings of the 25thAnnual Meeting of the Association ofComputational Linguistics, pages 193?200,Stanford, CA.Brants, Sabine, Stefanie Dipper, SilviaHansen, Wolfgang Lezius, and GeorgeSmith.
2002.
The TIGER Treebank.
InProceedings of the Workshop on Treebanksand Linguistic Theories, Sozopol, Bulgaria.Brent, Michael.
1993.
From grammar tolexicon: Unsupervised learning of lexicalsyntax.
Computational Linguistics,19(2):203?222.Bresnan, Joan.
2001.
Lexical-Functional Syntax.Blackwell, Oxford.Briscoe, Edward.
2001.
From dictionary tocorpus to self-organizing dictionary:Learning valency associations in the faceof variation and change.
In Proceedings ofCorpus Linguistics 2001, Lancaster, UK.Briscoe, Edward and John Carroll.
1997.Automatic extraction of subcategorizationfrom corpora.
In Proceedings of the FifthACL Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing, pages 356?363,Washington, DC.Burke, Michael, Aoife Cahill, RuthO?Donovan, Josef van Genabith, andAndy Way.
2004a.
Evaluation of anautomatic annotation algorithm againstthe PARC 700 Dependency Bank.
InProceedings of the Ninth InternationalConference on LFG, pages 101?121,Christchurch, New Zealand.Burke, Michael, Aoife Cahill, RuthO?Donovan, Josef van Genabith, andAndy Way.
2004b.
Treebank-basedacquisition of wide-coverage, probabilisticLFG resources: Project overview, resultsand evaluation.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop ?Beyond Shallow Analyses?Formalisms and Statistical Modellingfor Deep Analyses?
at the First InternationalJoint Conference on Natural LanguageProcessing (IJCNLP-04), HainanIsland, China.Burke, Michael, Olivia Lam, RowenaChan, Aoife Cahill, Ruth O?Donovan,Adams Bodomo, Josef van Genabith,and Andy Way.
2004.
Treebank-basedacquisition of a Chinese lexical-functionalgrammar.
In Proceedings of the 18thPacific Asia Conference on Language,Information and Computation,pages 161?172, Tokyo.Cahill, Aoife, Michael Burke, RuthO?Donovan, Josef van Genabith, and AndyWay.
2004.
Long-distance dependencyresolution in automatically acquiredwide-coverage PCFG-based LFGapproximations.
In Proceedingsof the 42nd Annual Meeting of theAssociation of Computational Linguistics,pages 320?327, Barcelona.Cahill, Aoife, Martin Forst, MaireadMcCarthy, Ruth O?Donovan, ChristianRohrer, Josef van Genabith, and AndyWay.
2003.
Treebank-based multilingualunification-grammar development.
InProceedings of the Workshop on Ideas andStrategies for Multilingual GrammarDevelopment at the 15th ESS-LLI,pages 17?24, Vienna.Cahill, Aoife, Mairead McCarthy,Michael Burke, Ruth O?Donovan,Josef van Genabith, and Andy Way.2004.
Evaluating automatic F-structureannotation for the Penn-II Treebank.Journal of Research on Language andComputation, 2(4):523?547.Cahill, Aoife, Mairead McCarthy, Josef vanGenabith, and Andy Way.
2002.
Parsingtext with a PCFG derived from Penn-IIwith an automatic F-structure annotationprocedure.
In Proceedings of the SeventhInternational Conference on LFG, edited byMiriam Butt and Tracy Holloway King.CSLI Publications, Stanford, CA,pages 76?95.362O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical ResourcesCarroll, Glenn and Mats Rooth.
1998.
Valenceinduction with a head-lexicalised PCFG.
InProceedings of the Third Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing, pages 36?45,Granada, Spain.Charniak, Eugene.
1996.
Tree-bankgrammars.
In AAAI-96: Proceedings of theThirteenth National Conference on ArtificialIntelligence.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA,pages 1031?1036.Chen, John and K. Vijay-Shanker.
2000.Automated extraction of TAGs from thePenn Treebank.
In Proceedings of the 38thAnnual Meeting of the Association ofComputational Linguistics, pages 65?76,Hong Kong.Collins, Michael.
1997.
Three generativelexicalised models for statistical parsing.
InProceedings of the 35th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,pages 16?23, Madrid.Crouch, Richard, Ron Kaplan, Tracy King,and Stefan Riezler.
2002.
A comparisonof evaluation metrics for a broad coverageparser.
In Proceedings of Workshop?Beyond PARSEVAL?
at Third InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation, Las Palmas, Spain.Dalrymple, Mary.
2001.
Lexical FunctionalGrammar.
Volume 34 of Syntax andSemantics.
Academic Press, New York.Dowty, David.
1982.
Grammatical relationsand Montague grammar.
In PaulineJacobson and Geoffrey Pullum, editors,The Nature of Syntactic Representation.Reidel, Dordrecht, The Netherlands,pages 79?130.Dudenredaktion, editor.
2001.
DUDEN?DasStilworterbuch.
[DUDEN?The StyleDictionary].
Number 2 in Duden in zwo?lfBanden [Duden in Twelve Volumes].Dudenverlag, Mannheim, Germany.Eckle, Judith.
1999.
Linguistic Knowledge forAutomatic Lexicon Acquisition from GermanText Corpora.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofStuttgart, Germany.Frank, Anette.
2000.
Automatic F-structureannotation of treebank trees.
In Proceedingsof the Fifth International Conference on LFG,Berkeley, CA, edited by Miriam Buttand Tracy Holloway King.
CSLI,pages 139?160.Grishman, Ralph, Catherine MacLeod, andAdam Meyers.
1994.
COMLEX syntax:Building a computational lexicon.
InProceedings of the 15th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,pages 268?272, Kyoto.Hajic, Jan. 1998.
Building a syntacticallyannotated corpus: The PragueDependency Treebank.
In Issues in Valencyand Meaning, edited by Eva Hajicova.Karolinum, Prague, Czech Republic,pages 106?132.Hindle, Donald and Mats Rooth.
1993.Ambiguity and lexical relations.Computational Linguistics, 19(1):103?120.Hockenmaier, Julia, Gann Bierner, and JasonBaldridge.
2004.
Extending the coverage ofa CCG system.
Journal of Language andComputation, 2(2):165?208.Hornby, Albert, editor.
1980.
Oxford AdvancedLearner?s Dictionary of Current English.Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK.Joshi, Aravind.
1988.
Tree adjoininggrammars.
In David Dowty, LauriKarttunen, and Arnold Zwicky, editors,Natural Language Parsing.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge,pages 206?250.Kaplan, Ronald and Joan Bresnan.
1982.Lexical functional grammar: A formalsystem for grammatical representation.
InJoan Bresnan, editor, The MentalRepresentation of Grammatical Relations.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA, pages 173?281.King, Tracy Holloway, Richard Crouch,Stefan Riezler, Mary Dalrymple, andRonald Kaplan.
2003.
The PARC 700Dependency Bank.
In Proceedings of theFourth International Workshop onLinguistically Interpreted Corpora, Budapest.Kingsbury, Paul and Martha Palmer.
2002.From Treebank to PropBank.
In Proceedingsof the Third International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation(LREC-2002), Las Palmas, Spain.Kinyon, Alexandra and Carlos Prolo.
2002.Identifying verb arguments and theirsyntactic function in the Penn Treebank.
InProceedings of the Third LREC Conference,pages 1982?1987, Las Palmas, Spain.Korhonen, Anna.
2002.
Subcategorizationacquisition.
As Technical ReportUCAM-CL-TR-530, Computer Laboratory,University of Cambridge, UK.Krotov, Alexander, Mark Hepple, RobertGaizauskas, and Yorick Wilks.
1998.Compacting the Penn Treebank grammar.In Proceedings of the 36th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguisticsand 17th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, pages 669?703,Montreal.Levin, Beth.
1993.
English Verb Classes andAlternations.
University of Chicago Press,Chicago.363Computational Linguistics Volume 31, Number 3MacLeod, Catherine, Ralph Grishman, andAdam Meyers.
1994.
The Comlex SyntaxProject: The first year.
In Proceedings of theARPA Workshop on Human LanguageTechnology, pages 669?703, Princeton.Magerman, David.
1994.
Natural LanguageParsing as Statistical Pattern Recognition.Ph.D.
thesis, Stanford University,Stanford, CA.Magerman, David.
1995.
Statistical decisiontree models for parsing.
In Proceedings ofthe 33rd Annual Meeting for the Associationof Computational Linguistics, pages 276?283,Cambridge, MA.Manning, Christopher.
1993.
Automaticacquisition of a large subcategorisationdictionary from corpora.
In Proceedings ofthe 31st Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 235?242,Columbus, OH.Marcus, Mitchell, Grace Kim, Mary AnnMarcinkiewicz, Robert MacIntyre, MarkFerguson, Karen Katz, and BrittaSchasberger.
1994.
The Penn Treebank:Annotating predicate argument structure.In Proceedings of the ARPA Human LanguageTechnology Workshop, Princeton.Marinov, Svetoslav and Cecilia Hemming.2004.
Automatic Extraction ofSubcategorization Frames from theBulgarian Tree Bank.
Unpublishedmanuscript, Graduate School of LanguageTechnology, Go?teborg, Sweden.Meyers, Adam, Catherine MacLeod, andRalph Grishman.
1996.
Standardization ofthe complement/adjunct distinction.In Proceedings of the SeventhEURALEX International Conference,Go?teborg, Sweden.Miyao, Yusuke, Takashi Ninomiya, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2004.
Corpus-orientedgrammar development for acquiring ahead-driven phrase structure grammarfrom the Penn Treebank.
In Proceedings ofthe First International Joint Conference onNatural Language Processing (IJCNLP-04),pages 390?398, Hainan Island, China.Nakanishi, Hiroko, Yusuke Miyao, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2004.
Using inverselexical rules to acquire a wide-coveragelexicalized grammar.
In Proceedingsof the Workshop ?Beyond ShallowAnalyses?Formalisms and StatisticalModelling for Deep Analyses?
at the FirstInternational Joint Conference on NaturalLanguage Processing (IJCNLP-04), HainanIsland, China.O?Donovan, Ruth, Michael Burke,Aoife Cahill, Josef van Genabith, andAndy Way.
2004.
Large-scale inductionand evaluation of lexical resources fromthe Penn-II Treebank.
In Proceedingsof the 42nd Annual Meeting of theAssociation of Computational Linguistics,pages 368?375, Barcelona.Pollard, Carl and Ivan Sag.
1994.Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar.University of Chicago Press, Chicago.Proctor, Paul, editor.
1978.
LongmanDictionary of Contemporary English.Longman, London.Roland, Douglas and Daniel Jurafsky.1998.
How verb subcategorizationfrequencies are affected by corpuschoice.
In Proceedings of the 36thAnnual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics and17th International Conference onComputational Linguistics,pages 1117?1121, Montreal.Sadler, Louisa, Josef van Genabith,and Andy Way.
2000.
AutomaticF-structure annotation from theAP Treebank.
In Proceedings of theFifth International Conference on LFG,Berkeley, CA, edited by MiriamButt and Tracy Holloway King.
CSLI,pages 226?243.Sarkar, Anoop and Daniel Zeman.
2000.Automatic extraction of subcategorizationframes for Czech.
In Proceedings of the 19thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pages 691?697, Saarbru?cken,Germany.Schulte im Walde, Sabine.
2002a.
Asubcategorisation lexicon for Germanverbs induced from a lexicalised PCFG.
InProceedings of the Third LREC Conference,pages 1351?1357, Las Palmas, Spain.Schulte im Walde, Sabine.
2002b.
Evaluatingverb subcategorisation frames learned by aGerman statistical grammar againstmanual definitions in the DudenDictionary.
In Proceedings of the 10thEURALEX International Congress,pages 187?197, Copenhagen.Simov, Kiril, Gergana Popova, and PetyaOsenova.
2002.
HPSG-based syntactictreebank of Bulgarian (BulTreeBank).
InAndrew Wilson, Paul Rayson, and TonyMcEnery, editors, A Rainbow of Corpora:Corpus Linguistics and the Languages of theWorld.
Lincon-Europa, Munich,pages 135?142.Ushioda, Akira, David Evans, Ted Gibson,and Alex Waibel.
1993.
The Automaticacquisition of frequencies of verbsubcategorization frames from tagged364O?Donovan et al Large-Scale Induction and Evaluation of Lexical Resourcescorpora.
In SIGLEX ACL Workshop on theAcquisition of Lexical Knowledge from Text,pages 95?106, Columbus, OH.van Genabith, Josef, Louisa Sadler, andAndy Way.
1999.
Data-driven compilationof LFG semantic forms.
In EACL-99Workshop on Linguistically InterpretedCorpora (LINC-99), pages 69?76, Bergen,Norway.van Genabith, Josef, Andy Way, and LouisaSadler.
1999.
Semi-automatic generation ofF-structures from Treebanks.
InProceedings of the Fourth InternationalConference on Lexical-Functional Grammar,Manchester, UK.
Available athttp://cslipublications.stanford.edu/.Wauschkuhn, Oliver.
1999.
AutomatischeExtraktion von Verbvalenzen aus deutschenTextkorpora [Automatic Extraction of VerbValence from German Text Corpora].
PhDthesis, University of Stuttgart, Germany.Xia, Fei.
1999.
Extracting tree adjoininggrammars from bracketed corpora.In Fifth Natural Language ProcessingPacific Rim Symposium (NLPRS-99),Beijing, China.Xue, Nianwen, Fu-Dong Chiou, and MarthaPalmer.
2002.
Building a large-scaleannotated Chinese corpus.
In Proceedingsof the 19th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING 2002),Taipei, Taiwan.365
