WordNet Nouns: Classes and InstancesGeorge A. MillerPrinceton UniversityFlorentina HristeaUniversity of BucharestWordNet, a lexical database for English that is extensively used by computational linguists, hasnot previously distinguished hyponyms that are classes from hyponyms that are instances.
Thisnote describes an attempt to draw that distinction and proposes a simple way to incorporate theresults into future versions of WordNet.If you were to say ?Women are numerous,?
you would not wish to imply that anyparticular woman is numerous.
Instead, you would probably mean something like ?Theclass of women contains numerous instances.?
To say, on the other hand, ?Rosa Parksis numerous,?
would be nonsense.
Whereas the noun woman denotes a class, the propernoun Rosa Parks is an instance of that class.
As Quirk et al (1985, page 288) point out,proper nouns normally lack number contrast.This important distinction between classes and instances underlies the present dis-cussion of WordNet nouns.
Some nouns are understood to refer to classes; membershipin those classes determines the semantic relation of hyponymy that is basic for theorganization of nouns in WordNet (WN).
Other nouns, however, are understood to referto particular individuals.
In many cases the distinction is clear, but not always.The distinction to be discussed here is between words ordinarily understood asreferring to classes and words ordinarily understood as referring to particular individ-uals and places.
In the literature on knowledge representation, the classic discussion ofthis distinction is provided by Woods (1975).
The distinction was not drawn in initialversions of WN (Miller 1990; Fellbaum 1998), which used the ?is a?
relation in bothcases.
That is to say, both ?A heroine is a woman?
and ?Rosa Parks is a woman?
wereconsidered to be occurrences of the ?is a?
relation and were encoded in the WN databasein the same manner.Requests to incorporate a distinction between classes and instances have come fromontologists, among others.
In their discussion of WN, for example, Gangemi et al (2001)and Oltramari et al (2002) complain about the confusion between individuals andconcepts.
They suggest that if there was an ?instance of?
relation, they could distinguishbetween a concept-to-concept relation of subsumption and an individual-to-conceptrelation of instantiation.
That is, essentially, the suggestion we follow in the presentwork, but in some cases the distinction was not easy to draw.Incorporating this distinction was resisted at first because WN was not initiallyconceived as an ontology, but rather as a description of lexical knowledge.
WN in-cludes verbs, adjectives, and adverbs in addition to nouns.
Although no ontology wasintended, the organization of nouns in WN bore many similarities to an ontology.As the importance of ontology became more apparent, requests to convert the WNnoun hierarchy could no longer be ignored.
Version 2.1 of WN takes a step in thatdirection: the Tops file is reorganized to have a single unique beginner: entity.
In areasonable ontology, however, all terms might be expected to conform to the mem-bership relation of set theory and would not contain individuals or placenames.
Theconfounding of classes and instances in WN posed a problem.
The obvious way to solve?
2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 32, Number 1that problem was to distinguish them.
That is to say, the instances in WN had to beidentified.There are three characteristics that all words denoting instances share.
They are,first of all, nouns.
Second, they are proper nouns, which means that they should becapitalized.
And finally, the referent should be a unique entity, which implies that theyshould not have hyponyms; it is meaningless to have an instance of an instance.Unfortunately, these characteristics are shared by many words that are not in-stances.
In clear-cut cases, such as persons or cities, there is little problem identify-ing instances.
But there are many other proper nouns that are not instances.
It wasdecided that there was no alternative to inspecting the 24,073 sets of synonyms thatcontained candidate nouns, one at a time.
This was done manually by the authors, FHand GM.The strategy agreed on for assigning ?instance?
tags was to concentrate on a word?sreferent.
When they knew of a unique referent, it was considered a clear case of aninstance.
Otherwise it was considered a class.
For example, when Beethoven is used torefer to the German composer, it is an instance, but when Beethoven is used to refer to thecomposer?s music (as in ?She loved to listen to Beethoven?)
the same word refers to aclass of musical compositions.
Moreover, just to be clear, when there were two differentreferents, both were tagged as instances.
For example, Bethlehem in the Holy Land andBethlehem in Pennsylvania were both tagged as instances.
And when an instance hadtwo or more hypernyms, it was tagged as an instance of all of them.
For example, Marsis an instance of a terrestrial planet (having a compact rocky surface) and also as aninstance of a superior planet (its orbit lies outside the Earth?s orbit).The basic entries in WN are sets of synonyms, or synsets.
A problem reported byboth taggers was the occurrence of capitalized and lower-case words in the same synset.It makes no sense for a word to refer to an instance and for its synonym to refer to aclass, so in these cases the entire synset was considered to denote a class.
For example,acetaminophen and Tylenol are synonyms in WN and both were considered to denoteclasses.
The possibility that Tylenol might be an instance of acetaminophen seemed to berefuted by such usages as ?She took two Tylenol and went to bed.?
In short, givingsomething a trade name does not change it from a class to an instance.
The street namesof drugs were also considered to denote classes.The two taggers disagreed in their treatment of sacred texts.
Whereas they agreedthat Adi Granth, Zend Vesta, Bhagavadgita, Mahabharata, and others were instances ofsacred texts, when they came to the Christian Bible they disagreed.
FH considered itan instance, no different from other sacred texts; GM called it a class term becausethere are many hyponyms of Bible: Vulgate, Douay, King James, Revised Version, AmericanRevised Version, etc.
But GM?s decision made the Bible a special case, which may haveresulted from WN?s compilers knowing more about the Bible than they knew aboutother sacred texts.
It was decided that this was a case in which a sacred text could bea class: Bible was tagged as a class of a sacred text and its hyponyms were tagged asinstances.Languages posed another problem.
For example, are Old Italian, Sardinian, andTuscan instances of Italian?
It was decided that, from an ontological point of view,languages are not instances.
Only speech acts are instances.Placenames included many geographical regions that do not have well-defined po-litical boundaries: Andalusia, Appalachia, Antarctic Zone, Badlands, Barbary Coast, Bithynia,Caucasia, etc., but the terms still have geographical significance and are in general use.Although vague in denotation, the taggers considered them instances.
The names ofcities and states, islands and continents, rivers and lakes, mountain peaks and mountain2Miller and Hristea WordNet Nouns: Classes and Instancesranges, seas and oceans, planets and satellites, stars and constellations, were tagged asinstances, as were the signs of the zodiac.The names of numbers and the names of monetary units were all considered asclasses; the Hong Kong dollar, for example, is not an instance of dollar.Overall, there were 7,671 synsets in WN that the taggers finally agreed should betagged as instances.
Version 2.1 of WordNet contains these distinctions and it will besubjected to helpful criticism by WN users, as are all the other lexical relations in WN.Finally, a word about the notation that will represent this distinction in WN.
Thesymbol used to code hypernyms has been @.
That is to say, {peach, drupe,@} has repre-sented ?a peach is a drupe?
or ?all peaches are drupes.?
This notation is appropriatefor representing relations between classes but it is not appropriate for representingrelations of instantiation.
When {Berlin, city,@} is used to represent ?Berlin is a city,?the instance Berlin is treated inappropriately as a class.
A different symbol is needed tocode instances.
It has been decided, therefore, simply to add an i to the @; to represent?Berlin is an instance of a city?
by {Berlin, city,@i} in the new notation.Since WN 2.1 contains the distinctions between classes and instances describedhere, it will be possible to treat WN nouns as a semi-ontology by simply ignoring allnouns tagged with @i.
It is hoped that this modification will make WN more useful tofuture users.AcknowledgmentsFlorentina Hristea is grateful to theRomanian-U.S. Fulbright Commission forthe Fulbright Grant that made it possible forher to collaborate in this research.
Work bythe Cognitive Science Laboratory wassupported by a contract between PrincetonUniversity and the Advanced ResearchDevelopment Activity (AQUAINT ProgramPhase 2, Contract No.
NBCHC40012).
Theauthors are indebted to Benjamin Haskell fordeveloping the interface that was used to taginstances and to Christiane Fellbaum, HelenLangone, and Randee Tengi for comments onthe manuscript.ReferencesFellbaum, Christiane, editor.
1998.
WordNet:An Electronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.Gangemi, Aldo, Nicola Guarino, andAlessandro Oltramari.
2001.
Conceptualanalysis of lexical taxonomies: The caseof WordNet top-level.
In C. Welty andB.
Smith, editors, Formal Ontology inInformation Systems.
Proceedings ofFOIS2001.
ACM Press, 285?296.Oltramari, Alessandro, Aldo Gangemi,Nicola Guarino, and Claudio Masolo.2002.
Restructuring WordNet?s top-level:The OntoClean approach.
In Proceedings ofLREC2002 (OntoLex workshop), LasPalmas, Spain.Miller, George A., editor.
1990.
WordNet: Anon-line lexical database [Special Issue].International Journal of Lexicography,3:235?312.Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum,Geoffrey Leech, and Jan Svartvik.
1985.A Comprehensive Grammar of the EnglishLanguage.
Longman, London andNew York.Woods, William A.
1975.
What?s in a link:Foundations for semantic networks.In Daniel G. Bobrow and Alan Collins,editors, Representation and Understanding:Studies in Cognitive Science.
AcademicPress, New York.3
