Advances in Open Domain Question AnsweringTomek Strzalkowski and Sanda Harabagiu (editors)(SUNY Albany and University of Texas at Dallas)Springer (Text, speech and language technology series, edited by Nancy Ide andJean Ve?ronis, volume 32), 2006, xxvi+566 pp; hardbound, ISBN 978-1-4020-4744-2,$259.00Reviewed byPaul ThompsonDartmouth CollegeThis edited volume provides an excellent, comprehensive introduction to recent re-search on open-domain question answering, meaning that the question-answering sys-tems are not used merely in specific, narrow domains, but rather in domains such asnews or the Internet.
Most of the chapters describe systems that have been developedfor the Advanced Question Answering for Intelligence, or AQUAINT, program spon-sored by the U.S. Government Advanced Research and Development Activity (ARDA),or the related Text Retrieval Conference (TREC) Question Answering (QA) Track.
Bothof these activities began in 1999 and, as of this writing, still continue.
Although muchof the research described here has this common origin, a wide variety of approachesto question answering are represented in these chapters.
The book is divided into sixsections:1.
Approaches to question answering2.
Question processing3.
Question answering as information retrieval4.
Answer extraction5.
Evaluating question-answering systems6.
Perspectives on question answeringEach section consists of two or three chapters.Automatic question answering has long been studied in artificial intelligence re-search.
Early systems were constrained to answering questions about limited domains,for example, baseball statistics or lunar rocks.
By the 1990s, question answering hadbecome a less active field of research.
During the 1990s the U.S. Government fundedthe Tipster program for research on information retrieval and information extraction.As discussed by Maiorano in his chapter ?Question answering: Technology for in-telligence analysis,?
it was hoped that the template-filling of Tipster?s information-extraction tasks would require researchers to develop systems capable of deep naturallanguage understanding.
Instead, shallow techniques were able to perform well onthose tasks.
Similarly, the AQUAINT program is seen as building on information-retrieval and information-extraction technology to provide systems that can extractanswers from open-domain free text for information seekers, rather than just rankedlists of documents that might answer the question when read.
Again, there is theview that achieving a question-answering capability will require deep natural languageComputational Linguistics Volume 33, Number 4understanding.
Although some of the chapters in this volume describe long-range goalsof achieving levels of question answering requiring deep understanding, much of theresearch described here so far has focused on simpler question-answering tasks, suchas the factoid question answering of the TREC QA track.
As the book shows, however,factoid, or slightly more complex, question answering can benefit from a variety of moreor less deep approaches.Section 1 of the book contains three chapters presenting very different approachesto question answering.
The first chapter in the book, by Moldovan et al, describes howdefinition-style questions can be answered using deep language processing and logictheorem proving.
The next chapter, by Ittycheriah, describes the application of maxi-mum entropy and other machine-learning approaches to answering factoid questions.The chapter by Vicedo and Ferra?ndez shows how anaphora resolution can improvequestion-answering performance.
Most contemporary question-answering systems usean information-retrieval component to find candidate documents, followed by an ex-traction component that produces an answer.
Section 3 describes three approaches toquestion answering that rely primarily on information-retrieval techniques.Contemporary question-answering systems generally include question-processingand answer-processing components, where a question type is first determined froman analysis of the question, and then answers are sought using algorithms specific tothat question type.
Sections 2 and 4 describe question processing and answer extrac-tion.
Harabagiu?s chapter, ?Questions and intentions,?
provides a particularly usefuldiscussion of the importance of pragmatic knowledge in question answering.
In Sec-tion 4, Prager et al?s chapter, ?Question answering by predictive annotation,?
discussespreprocessing of text, for example, marking up named entities, and Srihari et al in?Question answering supported by multiple levels of information extraction?
focuson applying information-extraction techniques at retrieval time.
On the other hand,Echihabi et al, in their chapter ?How to select an answer string,?
use statistical andinformation-theoretic techniques, which interpret an answer as a ?translation?
of thequestion.The Tipster program, with its Message Understanding Conferences, and TREC bothplaced a strong emphasis on evaluation.
The TREC QA Track and the Interactive Ques-tion Answering Track likewise have developed formal evaluation metrics, in particularfor factoid question answering.
Though evaluation for the more advanced forms ofquestion answering in the AQUAINT program has not been as formal, some interestingnew approaches to evaluation involving analysts performing realistic tasks have beendeveloped, as discussed, for example, by Strzalkowski et al in their chapter, ?Questionanswering as dialogue with data.?
Voorhees?s ?Evaluating question answering systemperformance?
and Hersh?s ?Evaluating interactive question answering?
describe theTREC QA Track evaluations; Ogden et al?s ?Habitability in question-answering sys-tems?
takes a step back from current question-answering technology and considers userrequirements with future question-answering systems.The final section of the book considers question answering from the perspectives ofintelligence analysis, statistical machine learning, and the long-range future.
Maiorano?schapter has been mentioned earlier.
Riloff et al in ?Reverse-engineering question /answer collections?
describe a technique with which to bootstrap training data tosupport machine-learning approaches to question answering.
Maybury?s concludingchapter, ?New directions in question answering,?
provides a long-range perspectiveon question-answering research, describing three future question-answering visions.The first is a user-centered one, where personal assistants model the user?s interestsand cognitive style.
Another vision is of embedded intelligence, where intelligence and598Book Reviewsquestion-answering capabilities reside in the environment.
The third vision is of em-bodied agents, for example, virtual avatars or physical humanoid robots.
Mayburynotes that one of the crucial issues will be discovering the right mixed-initiative sym-biosis among human and artificial agents.This book is based largely on an ongoing, but soon to be completed, researchprogram.
The chapters necessarily reflect research from early in the program.
It will beuseful to compare the present volume to a volume that might appear once the programhas been completed.
So far, question answering has not had the commercial success of,say, information-retrieval technology.
It will be interesting to see how research in thisarea proceeds once the stimulus from the AQUAINT program ends and whether theexpected utility of question answering for analysts can be extended to the more generaluser.Paul Thompson is a Research Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Scienceat Dartmouth College.
His research interests include probabilistic information retrieval, nat-ural language processing, and information assurance.
Thompson?s address is Department ofComputer Science, Dartmouth College, Hinman Box 6211, Hanover, NH 03755-3510; e-mail:Paul.Thompson@dartmouth.edu.599
