Book ReviewMathematical LinguisticsAndra?s Kornai(MetaCarta Inc.)Springer (Advanced information and knowledge processing series, edited byLakhmi Jain), 2008, xiii+289 pp; ISBN 978-1-84628-985-9, $99.00Reviewed byRichard Sproat and Roxana G?
?rjuUniversity of Illinois at Urbana-ChampaignFor readers of traditional textbooks such as that of Partee, ter Meulen, and Wall (1990),the term ?mathematical linguistics?
denotes a rather narrowly circumscribed set of issuesincluding automata theory, set theory, and lambda calculus, with maybe a little formallanguage theory thrown in.
Kornai?s contribution is refreshingly different in that hetreats, in this relatively compact volume, practically all areas of linguistics, phonetics,and speech and language processing.Kornai?s motivation for writing this book is to present ?a single entry point tothe central methods and concepts of linguistics that are made largely inaccessibleto the mathematician, computer scientist, or engineer by the surprisingly adversarialstyle of argumentation .
.
.
and the proliferation of unmotivated notation and formal-ism .
.
.
all too often encountered in research papers and monographs in the humanities?
(page viii).
There is no question that much of what passes for rigor (mathematical andscientific) in linguistics is a joke and that there is clearly a need for any work that canplace the field on a more solid footing.
It also seems likely that Kornai is the only personwho could have written this book.The book is divided into ten chapters, including a short introductory chapter, whichlays the groundwork and identifies the potential audience, and a concluding chapterwhere Kornai reveals his own views on what is important in the field, which in theinterests of balance he has largely suppressed throughout the book.
Chapter 2 is alsointroductory in that it presents basic concepts of generation (via a ruleset), axioms, andstring rewriting.The main chapters (3?9) deal with a variety of topic areas relating to languageand speech, starting with phonology in Chapter 3.
This chapter introduces the notionof phonemes, distinctive features, autosegmental phonology, and computation usingfinite automata.
Kornai offers many details that are of course lacking in most linguistictreatments, such as a proof that the number of well-formed association lines betweentwo tiers of length n is asymptotically (6+ 4?2)n.Chapter 4 deals with morphology, which for Kornai includes not only word forma-tion, but also prosody (including stress assignment and moraic structure), as well asOptimality Theory and Zipf?s law.The fifth chapter treats syntax, including categorial grammar, phrase structure,dependency frameworks, valency, and weighted models of grammar, ending with adiscussion of weighted finite automata and hidden Markov models.
In the context ofweighted models, Kornai implies that Chomsky?s original notion of degree of gram-maticality fits naturally as an instance of a weighted model with a particular semiring;of course, exactly what the ?
and ?
operators of that semiring map to remain toComputational Linguistics Volume 34, Number 4be seen insofar as the notion ?degree of grammaticality?
has never been rigorouslydefined.Chapter 6, on Semantics, starts with a discussion of various standard paradoxessuch as the Liar, and then moves on to an overview of Montague?s theory, type theory,and grammatical semantics.
Throughout the discussion, Kornai underscores the fun-damental limitations of theories of semantics that are based purely upon evaluation oftruth conditions for artificial fragments, an important point for anyone who wants togo beyond theoretical philosophically inspired models and consider semantic interpre-tation in the real world.Complexity is the topic of Chapter 7.
This is not the Chomsky-hierarchy notion ofcomplexity, but rather deals with information theory, in particular entropy, Kolmogorovcomplexity, and a short section on learning, including identification in the limit and PAClearning.Pattern recognition is divided across two chapters, with Chapter 8 laying the es-sential groundwork of linguistic pattern recognition, and Chapter 9 presenting detailson speech processing and handwriting recognition.
This includes feature extraction: Inthe case of speech recognition, Kornai reviews the frequency representation of speechsignals, and defines the cepstrum.
Discussion of acoustic models leads us to phonemesas hidden units, with a slight detour into the fine-grained distinctions between differentlevels of phonemic analysis in the once popular but now largely discredited theory ofLexical Phonology.Each chapter ends with a section entitled ?Further Reading,?
and the texts referredto are generally quite useful as material for readers who wish to explore the issuesfurther.According to Wikipedia, Kornai is a ?well-known mathematical linguist?
whoseErdo?s number is 2.
Unfortunately, neither of us can claim Kornai?s mathematical so-phistication or stature, but on the other hand this makes us good judges of the book?spotential audience; and herein lies a problem.
Kornai?s target is ?anyone with suffi-cient general mathematical maturity?
with ?
[n]o prior knowledge of linguistics or lan-guages .
.
.
assumed on the part of the reader?
(page viii).
This suggests that the bookis not primarily aimed at linguists, and certainly the mathematical maturity assumedputs this book well beyond the reach of most linguists, so that it could not easily beused in an introductory course on mathematical linguistics in a linguistics program.
Itis probably beyond the reach of many computer science students as well.What about those who do have the mathematical maturity, but know nothingabout linguistics?
The problem here is that in many cases Kornai does not give enoughbackground (or any background) to appreciate the significance of the particular issuesbeing discussed.
For example, on page 77 Kornai gives weak crossover and heavy NP shiftas examples of phenomena that have ?weak?
effects on grammaticality, and resumptivepronouns as examples of phenomena that are marginal in some languages (such as Eng-lish).
But nowhere does he explain what these terms denote, which means that these arethrow-away comments for anyone who does not already know.
Section 3.2 introducesphonological features and feature geometry and sketches some of the mathematicalproperties of systems with features; but very little background is given on what featuresare supposed to represent.
The short discussion of Optimality Theory (pages 67?69)hardly gives enough background to give a feel for the main points of that approach.In other cases, topics are introduced but their importance to surrounding topics is hardto fathom.
For example, in Section 6.1.3 a discussion of the Berry paradox leads into adigression on how to implement digit-sequence-to-number-name mappings as finite-state transducers.
Apart from giving Kornai an opportunity to emphasize that this is616Book Reviewtrivial to do (something that is true in principle, but less true in practice, dependingupon the language), it is not clear what purpose this digression serves.There are also a number of places where issues are presented in a non-standardway, which might make sense from some points of view, but not if you are trying tointroduce someone to the way the field is practiced.
It is odd, for instance, that prosodyis introduced not in the chapter on phonology but in the one on morphology.
It isalso somewhat odd that Zipf?s law gets introduced in the morphology chapter.
(Andwhy is it that nowhere does Kornai cite Baayen?s excellent book on word-frequencydistributions (Baayen 2001), which would be a very useful source of further informationon this topic to any reader of Kornai?s book?
)Some material presented is puzzling or simply wrong.
It is not explained in whatsense German has a ?pure SVO construction?
(page 103) in contradistinction to thenormal assumption that German is verb-second.
The Cypriot syllabary does not datefrom the 15th century BCE (page 54); Latin does not have two locative cases (page 90)?indeed, it does not even have one locative case, so-called; the basic Hangul letter shapes(introduced on page 31 to make a point about phonetic features) are, with two excep-tions, completely incorrect?probably it would have been better to use a real Koreanfont rather than trying to imitate the jamowith LATEX math symbols.
There are of course agreat many places where the discussion is useful and informative, but there are enoughexamples of the kinds we have outlined that the uninitiated reader should be careful.As far as we can see, the most likely readership of this book consists of (computa-tional) linguists and others who already know the linguistic issues, have a fairly strongformal and mathematical background, and could benefit from the more-precise andmore-rigorous mathematical expositions that Kornai provides.Throughout the book, Kornai pauses occasionally to present exercises to the reader.These range from relatively simple to major research projects.
As with other aspects ofthis book, the distribution of topics for the exercises is somewhat erratic.
Thus, on page184, in the chapter on complexity, we are offered exercises 7.6 and 7.7 in close proximity:Exercise 7.6 Prove that a regular language is prefix-free iff it is accepted by a DFSAwith no transitions out of accepting states.
Is a prefix-free language context-free iff itis accepted by a DPDA with the same restriction on its control?...Exercise 7.7 Research the role of the ascii codes 0x02 (STX), 0x03 (ETX), and 0x16(SYN).But variety is, after all, what keeps things interesting.ReferencesBaayen, R. Harald 2001.
Word FrequencyDistributions.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers, Dordrecht.Partee, Barbara, Alice ter Meulen, and RobertWall.
1990.
Mathematical Methods inLinguistics.
Kluwer Academic Publishers,Dordrecht.Richard Sproat is Professor of Linguistics and Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Uni-versity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
He works on computational morphology, text normal-ization, and speech processing.
His Erdo?s number is 4.
Roxana G?
?rju is Assistant Professor ofLinguistics at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
She has a Ph.D. in ComputerScience and works on computational semantics, pragmatics, and inference.
Her Erdo?s numberis also 4.
Their address is Department of Linguistics, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,Foreign Languages Building 4016D, 707 South Matthews Avenue, MC-168, Urbana, IL, 61801;e-mail: rws@uiuc.edu and girju@uiuc.edu.617
