Book ReviewsThe Text Mining Handbook:Advanced Approaches to Analyzing Unstructured DataRonen Feldman and James Sanger(Bar-Ilan University and ABS Ventures)Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press, 2007, xii+410 pp; hardbound,ISBN 0-521-83657-3, $70.00Reviewed byRada MihalceaUniversity of North TexasText mining is the process of discovering information in large text collections, andautomatically identifying interesting patterns and relationships in textual data.
It isa relatively new research area, which has recently raised much interest among theresearch and industry communities, mainly due to the continuously increasing amountof information available on the Web and elsewhere.
Text mining is a highly interdisci-plinary research area, bringing together research insights from the fields of data mining,natural language processing, machine learning, and information retrieval.
In particular,text mining is closely related to the older area of data mining, which targets the extrac-tion of interesting information from data records, although text mining is allegedlymoredifficult, as the source data consists of unstructured collections of documents rather thanstructured databases.The book by Feldman and Sanger is a thorough introduction to text mining, cov-ering the general architecture of text mining systems, along with the main techniquesused by such systems.
It addresses both the theory and practice of text mining, and itillustrates the different techniques with real-world scenarios and practical applications.It is particularly relevant for students and professional practitioners, being structuredas a self-contained handbook that does not require previous experience in any of theresearch fields involved.The book is structured into twelve chapters, which gradually introduce the area oftext mining and related topics, starting with an introduction to the task of text mining,and ending with examples of practical applications from three different domains.The first chapter can be regarded as an overview of the book.
It starts by defining theproblem of text mining and the key elements in text mining: the document collections,the document features (words, terms, and concepts), and the role of background knowl-edge in text mining.
It then briefly touches upon the possible applications of text mining,such as pattern discovery and trend analysis, and shortly discusses the interface layer oftext mining systems.
The second part of the chapter lays down the general architectureof a text mining system, which also serves as a rough guide for the rest of the book, asit describes the main components of a text mining system that are described in detail insubsequent chapters.Chapter 2 is one of the longest chapters in the book, and also one of the mostdense in terms of newly introduced concepts.
Despite being a more difficult readcompared to the other chapters in the book, I found it to be the most informative withrespect to operations specific to text mining.
The chapter starts by defining the coretext mining operations, including distributions, sets, and associations, and introducesComputational Linguistics Volume 34, Number 1the main techniques for isolating interesting patterns and analyzing trends over time.The second part of the chapter overviews the role of background knowledge intext mining.
The authors describe several ontologies and lexicons, and show withevidence from a real-world example (the FACT system they developed in the late1990s) how background knowledge can be effectively integrated into text miningsystems.
A shortcoming of this section is the interchangeable use of ?domain ontol-ogy?
and ?background knowledge,?
which can be confusing for computational lin-guists, who typically make a distinction between these terms.
Finally, the third partof the chapter briefly describes query languages, which are later addressed in detail inChapter 9.Chapter 3 is meant as a short introduction to text preprocessing techniques, includ-ing tokenization, tagging, and parsing.
This chapter, as well as several of the followingchapters addressing text classification and information extraction, were most likelyincluded in the book because of the authors?
intention to make the book self-containedand appealing even for those with no background in computational linguistics.Chapters 4 and 5 describe techniques for text classification and clustering, whichare relevant to the selection of documents addressed by a text mining system.
Chapter4 describes the representation of documents for the purpose of text categorization,and introduces several machine-learning algorithms, including decision trees, naiveBayes, and SVMs, as well as committees of classifiers through bagging and boosting.Chapter 5 introduces several clustering algorithms, including agglomerative clustering,expectation maximization, and K-means, as well as techniques specific to clusteringtextual data such as latent semantic analysis.The next three chapters, 6, 7, and 8, address the task of information extraction, whichis a key element in any text mining system.
Chapter 6 begins by defining the problem ofinformation extraction, the architecture of a typical information extraction system, andthe main knowledge-based and structural approaches to information extraction.
Chap-ter 7 is dedicated to probabilistic models, including maximum entropy, hidden Markovmodels, and conditional random fields.
Chapter 8 then describes text preprocessingusing these probabilistic models, including part-of-speech tagging, shallow parsing,and named-entity tagging.
The chapter also addresses bootstrapping techniques forinformation extraction.
One drawback of this section of the book is the fact that thedivision of the material among these three chapters is not always very clear, and someparts could have been organized differently.
For instance, the probabilistic models andtheir applications are split among Chapters 7 and 8, although they could have beencombined under one chapter.
Chapter 8 includes material on bootstrapping approachesfor information extraction, which seems unrelated to the rest of this chapter and insteadcould have been included in Chapter 6.Chapter 9 addresses techniques for interfacing with text mining systems, includ-ing browsing and displaying of distributions, associations, and hierarchies, as well asquery languages and query refinement.
Visualization techniques are then addressed inChapter 10, which describes visual interfaces to text mining systems, such as associationgraphs, histograms, and self-organizing maps.
The chapter is rich in illustrations, whichcontribute to a better understanding of the differences between the various visualizationmethods.The relationships discovered by a text mining system can be further explored byusing techniques for link analysis, which are described in Chapter 11.
The chapterbegins with a brief introduction to graph theory, followed by a description of severalgraph centrality methods and algorithms for network partitioning.
The chapter alsoprovides pointers to software packages for link analysis.126Book ReviewsFinally, Chapter 12 illustrates the application of the text mining concepts introducedin the book to three practical text mining problems: industry literature mining, patentanalysis, and protein interactions.
By showing examples of concrete applications, theauthors demonstrate the applicability of the text mining theory introduced in the bookto practical real-world scenarios.Overall, The Text Mining Handbook is a good introduction to text mining, written byleading experts in the field.
The book is well written and addresses both the theory andpractice of text mining, whichmakes it appealing for researchers and practitioners alike.By being self-contained, with several chapters addressing in detail the main topicsrelevant to text mining, the book is highly recommended to those who would like tostart delving into the area of text mining without having any previous backgroundin computational linguistics.
Although experts in computational linguistics will mostlikely find that they can safely skip over several of the text processing chapters (e.g., theintroductory chapters on text preprocessing, or the chapters on text classification andinformation extraction), they will certainly find a lot of value in the chapters addressingthe specific task of text mining (mainly Chapters 2, 10, 11, and 12).Rada Mihalcea is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of North Texas.
Herresearch interests are in lexical semantics, multilingual natural language processing, minimallysupervised natural language learning, and graph-based algorithms for natural language process-ing.
She served as the president of the ACL Special Interest Group on the Lexicon (SIGLEX)from 2004 to 2007, and she is currently a board member of the ACL Special Interest Group onNatural Language Learning (SIGNLL).
Mihalcea?s address is: Department of Computer Science,University of North Texas, P.O.
Box 311366, Denton, TX, 76203; e-mail: rada@cs.unt.edu.127
