Errors and Intelligence in Computer-Assisted Language Learning:Parsers and PedagoguesTrude Heift and Mathias Schulze(Simon Fraser University and University of Waterloo)New York: Routledge (Routledge series in computer-assisted language learning, editedby Carol Chappelle), 2007, xviii+283 pp; hardbound, ISBN 978-0-415-36191-0, $115.00Reviewed byPius ten HackenSwansea UniversityAs is immediately clear from its name, Computer-Assisted Language Learning (CALL)is a field in which computers and language play key roles.
To conclude from this thatCALL would be a prominent area of computational linguistics, however, would behugely mistaken.
Handbooks and journals of computational linguistics, including thisone, do not usually have articles on CALL.
Nerbonne (2003) is a rare exception.
Con-versely, journals devoted to CALL (e.g., CALL, ReCALL, CALICO) contain many articlesthat readers of this journal would consider far outside the domain of computationallinguistics.
They are devoted, for instance, to the use of email or chatting in languageteaching.Nevertheless, I think there is every reason for computational linguists to be inter-ested in CALL.
And the book under review is a very good starting point, for the partof CALL that is likely to be of most interest to computational linguists that is the topicof this book.
Often this is called intelligent CALL (ICALL), but the authors prefer tocall it parser-based CALL.
Parser-based CALL is informed on the one hand by second-language acquisition theories and teaching practice, on the other by natural languageprocessing and artificial intelligence.
The purpose of this book is to give an overview ofthe relevant issues and the state of the art in each of these issues in a way that is accessi-ble to practitioners of all of these fields.
Computational linguists without a backgroundin language acquisition will therefore get a good foundation in all the relevant domainsto become fully updated on (the most interesting part of) CALL, but they will have toput up with (or skip) basic introductions to, for instance, the theory of formal grammar.The book consists of a brief introduction, four chapters (which the authors consis-tently call ?parts?)
giving an overview of the current state of parser-based CALL, anda conclusion with an outlook.
The introduction identifies the subject field and gives anoverview of the structure of the book.Chapter 2, ?NLP in CALL,?
is by far the longest (74 pages).
It starts with anargument about the highly interdisciplinary nature of the field and the influence ofdifferent currents of psychology.
Three sections (37 pages together) are devoted to anoutline of the history of computational linguistics and an overview of parsing.
The finalsection (30 pages) is an overview of parser-based CALL projects.
This section has a widecoverage with many references, while at the same time providing a useful classificationof systems and the issues they focus on.Chapter 3, ?Error Analysis and Description?
(31 pages), is devoted to the analysisof student input.
Regular parsers are not optimal for use in a CALL context, becausethey start from the assumption that the input is correct.
In the case of CALL, identifyingerrors is a central issue.
Even spelling checkers and grammar checkers, though designedto recognize errors, are not readily usable in CALL because learner errors are not theComputational Linguistics Volume 34, Number 1same as errors made by native speakers.
The section on error analysis (19 pages) isthe heart of this chapter.
It covers both the relevant developments in second languageacquisition theory and a detailed description of the identification of errors in a systemby one of the authors.
A final section is devoted to corpus linguistics and the use oflearner corpora.Chapter 4, ?Feedback?
(56 pages), takes the reader on a rather long general tourbefore arriving at CALL.
After sections on feedback in general, in human?computerinteraction, in general learning, and in language learning, as well as the general problemof language generation (together 20 pages), it is only Section 4.6 that treats ?Feedbackin CALL.?
This section and the next (together 36 pages) give an overview of the issuesincluding the problem of giving feedback that is used and understood by the learnerand the requirements on system design.
The discussion is again based on a detaileddescription of a system by one of the authors.Chapter 5, ?Student Modelling?
(41 pages), devotes again a long section to generalissues (21 pages) before the topic in the title is explored from the perspective of parser-based CALL.
In this case, this is understandable because most of the problems encoun-tered in the latter are specific versions of problems of Intelligent Tutoring Systems forareas other than a second language.Chapter 6, ?The Past and the Future?
(15 pages), starts in the by-now-familiar waywith some general thoughts about the problems of predicting future developmentsbefore sketching some of the current lines of development.On the whole, the book is a very useful overview of a field of application that, asI have argued elsewhere (ten Hacken 2003), is very much in line with modern trendsin computational linguistics because it aims for the solution of real-life, practical prob-lems rather than abstract, general problems such as understanding natural language.Research students and academics will find a wealth of well-organized information andreferences for further study.
The fact that the authors often take their own work as abasis for illustrating certain general ideas should not be held against them because oftheir prominent position in the field.
In some cases computational linguists can skip thefirst section(s) of a chapter because they will already know the topic to a higher standardthan achieved here, but this is the price for having an accessible introduction for all ofthe surrounding fields of research.One problem with this book is that it shows signs of a rushed production process.We can live with inconsistencies in section numbering, but inaccuracies in the referencesare more disturbing.
For a book that is unique in its kind and could have been a highlyuseful reference work it is particularly disappointing that the index is poor and nodetailed table of contents is provided.
This makes it difficult to access the wealth ofinformation contained in the book efficiently.
Despite these problems, the book is amust-read for any computational linguist intending to start work in the field of CALL.Referencesten Hacken, Pius.
2003.
Computer-assistedlanguage learning and the revolution incomputational linguistics.
LinguistikOn-Line, 17:23?39.Nerbonne, John.
2003.
Natural languageprocessing in computer-assisted languagelearning.InMitkov,Ruslan,editor,The OxfordHandbookof ComputationalLinguistics.OxfordUniversity Press, New York, pages 670?698.Pius ten Hacken is a senior lecturer in translation and linguistics at Swansea University (UK).His research interests include morphology, the lexicon, and the epistemological basis of gener-ative grammar and computational linguistics.
Ten Hacken?s address is Department of ModernLanguages, Swansea University, Singleton Park, Swansea, SA2 8PP, United Kingdom; e-mail:p.ten-hacken@swansea.ac.uk.134
