Book ReviewsA Computational Model of Natural Language CommunicationRoland Hausser(Friedrich-Alexander-Universita?t Erlangen-Nu?rnberg)Springer, 2006, xii+365 pp; hardbound, ISBN 3-540-35476-X/978-3-540-35476-5, e69.50Reviewed byMarkus EggUniversity of GroningenThe work presented in this book is motivated by the goal of applying linguistic theory-building to the concrete needs of potential linguistic applications such as questionanswering, dialogue systems, andmachine translation.
To pursue this goal, a translationof linguistic theory into a framework of ?practical linguistics?
is suggested.
DatabaseSemantics (DBS) is presented as a first step towards such a framework.
It models thecommunication between cognitive agents, which can be used, for example, to imple-ment the communicative abilities of a cognitive robot.DBS serves as a single underlying format for modeling communication in that itlends itself to an account of both language processing and language production (think-ing is added as a separate component, which refers to inferencing on stored information,and activating content to be verbalized).
As such an underlying format, it can be used todescribe linguistic as well as extralinguistic content (to represent utterances and the con-text, respectively).
Being explicitly designed for practical applications, DBS deliberatelyignores linguistic phenomena considered irrelevant for these (e.g., quantifier scope).The structure of the book is as follows.
It has threemain parts, which introduce DBS,outline the range of constructions covered by DBS so far, and specify fragments that canbe processed or produced in the framework of DBS.
There is also an appendix with twosections on the treatment of word-order variation in DBS and on the global architectureof DBS systems, and a glossary.The first part of the book starts with general principles of linguistic analysis that ap-ply to DBS.
These principles include incrementality (input is to be processed successivelyas it comes in, which yields an analysis for incomplete as well as complete chunks ofinput; the syntactic basis for this strategy is Left-Associative Grammar [Hausser 1992]),surface orientation (no empty categories), and a focus on communication (description for-malisms must be able to handle turn-taking, i.e., language processing and production).After a sketch of the general theory of communication of which DBS is a part, DBSis presented in detail.
It is implemented as a non-recursive data structure, that is, a list offeature structures called proplets (usually, one per word1) that are linked by coindexingthe values of specific features.2 For example, subcategorizing elements (?functors?
)have features whose values indicate their arguments and the other way around.In spite of its name, DBS does not offer a purely semantic representation of linguisticexpressions.
Although it does abstract away from purely syntactic phenomena such1 Function words such as determiners, auxiliaries, and conjunctions have no proplets of their own butcontribute to other proplets.2 This technique makes it resemble minimal recursion semantics (Copestake et al 2005).Computational Linguistics Volume 34, Number 2as word order and diatheses, it still preserves much syntactic structure, for example,in its representation of modification and of elliptical expressions.
Semantics proper isencoded within proplets (except those for deictic expressions and proper names) bydefining a concept as the value of their ?core attribute.
?DBS also serves for the representation of the extralinguistic context.
The context isdescribed in terms of proplet sets that are linked by feature value coindexation; the onlydifference to proplet sets for the modeling of linguistic content is that proplet sets forcontext do not comprise explicit pointers to specific words.The similarity between the representations of utterances and of context makes themove between them straightforward, which is crucial for the proposed analysis oflanguage processing and production: Language processing consists of deriving listsof proplets (including the coindexations between proplet values) from utterances andstoring them in the context representation, which is modeled as a database.
Languageproduction consists of the activation of such lists of proplets from this database andtheir translation into utterances.The second part of the book is devoted to three classes of linguistic phenomena andtheir description in DBS.
The first class is called ?functor-argument structure?
and cov-ers the relations between subcategorizing elements and their arguments and modifica-tion.
This includes sentential arguments, subordinate clauses, and relative clauses.
Thesecond class consists of coordination phenomena, ranging from simple coordination onthe word or phrase level to gapping and right-node raising.
The last class is cases ofcoreference.
A wide range of these cases is represented in DBS, including even Bach?Peters sentences (where there are two NPs that constitute anaphors whose antecedentis the respective other NP).
The DBS framework is used to formulate a version of theLangacker?Ross condition dating back to Langacker (1969) and Ross (1969): Pronounscan precede a coreferential NP only if they are part of a clause that is embedded withinthe clause of the NP.In the third part, three fragments are presented in detail, the first two from theprocessing and production perspective, the last one only from the processing perspec-tive.
The first fragment prepares the ground by illustrating how the approach handlesextremely simple texts consisting of intransitive present-tense sentences whose NPis a proper name.
The second fragment extends the coverage to pronouns, complexNPs (Det-Adj*-N), and transitive and ditransitive verbs in simple and complex tenses.Finally, the third fragment offers a treatment of intensifiers (very, rather) and adverbials,and an outlook on a syntactically underspecified approach to modifier attachmentambiguities.
The fragments are described in terms of ?grammars,?
which specify startand end states (in terms of the first and the last proplet of a list to be processed orverbalized) and a set of rules.
The rules are ordered in that every rule is accompaniedby a set of potential successors, and in that rules to start and to end a derivation withare specified.The book is written in a highly accessible way.
The formalism itself as well as itsapplication to the fragments is described thoroughly, whichmakes it easy to understandand evaluate DBS.
The underlying perspective on linguistic theory-building and thetheory of communication of which DBS is a part are also explicated clearly.
The formaldetails of the analysis are presented carefully.
A remaining point of dispute is in myview the set of readings of sentences where several PPs have more than one attachmentpossibility (Chapter 15.1).However, the book does not offer much discussion of the relation between theproposed analysis and competing approaches.
This shows up in specific parts of theanalysis?for example, in the discussion of coreference in Chapter 10, which does not312Book Reviewsintegrate previous work that formulates constraints on potential coreferences in termsof syntactic constellations such as c- or o-command (e.g., Pollard and Sag 1994; Reuland2006), and in the treatment of quantifier scope and scope ambiguity in Chapter 6 (asopposed to, e.g., the papers in vanDeemter and Peters [1996]).
But evenmore important,it would have been interesting to hear more about the way in which DBS compares toother approaches whose goal is the application of linguistic theory-building to concreteneeds of potential linguistic applications.
Although the completion of the manuscriptadmittedly antedates much of the ongoing work in the field (e.g., the application ofdeep linguistic processing in the analysis of biomedical and other scientific texts), acomparison of DBS to wide-coverage systems such as the LinGO English ResourceGrammar (Copestake and Flickinger 2000) (including also related activities such asthe development of Robust Minimal Recursion Semantics [Copestake 2007]) or Alpino(analysis of unrestricted Dutch texts [Bouma, van Noord, and Malouf 2001]) wouldhave been a welcome complementation to the presentation of DBS in the book.ReferencesBouma, Gosse, Gertjan van Noord, andRobert Malouf.
2001.
Alpino: Widecoverage computational analysis of Dutch.In Walter Daelemans, Khalil Sima?an,Jorn Veenstra, and Jakub Zavrel, editors,Computational Linguistics in the Netherlands(CLIN) 2000, Rodopi, Amsterdam,pages 45?59.Copestake, Ann.
2007.
Semantic compositionwith (robust) minimal recursion semantics.In Proceedings of the Workshop on DeepProcessing, pages 73?80, Prague.Copestake, Ann and Dan Flickinger.
2000.An open-source grammar developmentenvironment and broad-coverage Englishgrammar using HPSG.
In Proceedings of the2nd International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation, Athens.Copestake, Ann, Daniel Flickinger, CarlPollard, and Ivan Sag.
2005.
Minimalrecursion semantics.
An introduction.Research on Language and Computation,3:281?332.van Deemter, Kees and Stanley Peters,editors.
1996.
Semantic Ambiguity andUnderspecification.
CSLI, Stanford, CA.Hausser, Roland.
1992.
Complexity inleft-associative grammar.
TheoreticalComputer Science, 106:283?308.Langacker, R. 1969.
On pronominalizationand the chain of command.
In D. Reibeland S. Schane, editors,Modern Studies inEnglish.
Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs,NJ, pages 160?186.Pollard, Carl and Ivan Sag.
1994.
Head-drivenPhrase Structure Grammar.
CSLI andUniversity of Chicago Press, Chicago, IL.Reuland, Eric.
2006.
Binding theory: Termsand concepts.
In Martin Everaert andHenk van Riemsdijk, editors, The BlackwellCompanion to Syntax, volume 1.
Blackwell,Malden, UK, chapter 9, pages 260?283.Ross, J.
1969.
On the cyclic nature of Englishpronominalization.
In D. Reibel andS.
Schane, editors,Modern Studies inEnglish.
Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs,NJ, pages 187?200.Markus Egg is an associate professor in Discourse Studies at the University of Groningen.
Hismain areas of interest are semantics and discourse and their interfaces with syntax.
His addressis Centre for Language and Cognition Groningen, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen, Oude Kijk in?t Jatstraat 26, 9712 EK Groningen, The Netherlands; e-mail: k.m.m.egg@rug.nl.313
