Information Extraction: Algorithms and Prospects in aRetrieval ContextMarie-Francine Moens(Katholieke Universiteit Leuven)Springer (Information retrieval series, edited by W. Bruce Croft), 2006, xiii+246 pp;ISBN 978-1-4020-4987-3, $119.00Reviewed byDiana MaynardUniversity of SheffieldPublished as part of the Information Retrieval Series, this book aims to present botha historical overview of information extraction (IE) and a description of current ap-proaches and applications.
Essentially, it introduces the topic of information extractionto an information retrieval (IR) audience, aiming as much at students as establishedresearchers, and focusing primarily on the algorithms used.
Although it claims togive equal importance to early technologies developed in the field and to the ?mostadvanced and recent technologies,?
for the latter it concentrates mainly on machine-learning approaches rather than knowledge-engineering (rule-based) techniques.The book is well-structured and progresses from an introductory chapter that givesa brief explanation of information extraction and how it fits into the IR paradigm,through a historical overview of the field in Chapter 2, and on to the meat of the book,which describes different approaches to IE in a set of four chapters leading from sym-bolic techniques and pattern recognition through to supervised and then unsupervisedclassification techniques.
Chapter 7 discusses information retrieval models and makessome suggestions as to why and how information extraction should be incorporatedinto these models.
Chapter 8 then discusses evaluation of IE technologies, focusingon the most commonly used measures from the Message Understanding Conference(MUC) and Automatic Content Extraction (ACE) competitions, and suggesting otherways in which evaluation might be measured.
Chapter 9 describes some case studiesin which information extraction is commonly used.
Finally, the author takes a look atthe future of information extraction within an information retrieval context, discussingsome of the findings and challenges for current research.The aim of the book is quite ambitious in attempting to cater to the rather differentneeds of both students and established researchers.
On the one hand, the chapters onthe history of information extraction would be interesting for students; on the otherhand, this could be of lesser interest to researchers concerned about the techniques andapplications.
The first half of the book is quite readable; the second half, however, targetsthose with quite some knowledge already of statistical processing, language modeling,and so on.
Although the book is designed more for reading right through than dippinginto individual chapters, the middle sections are certainly not easy reading, exceptperhaps for those already familiar with the topic.It is slightly disappointing that the book is angled almost exclusively towardsmachine-learning approaches to IE, and consequently omits any mention of some of theleading tools in the field such as GATE (Cunningham et al 2002) and KIM (Popov et al2004), which are based on knowledge-engineering approaches.
Although the book doesnot concern itself with examining individual IE tools, one might expect some referenceto such tools, at least in the historical chapters if nowhere else.
It is also unfortunateComputational Linguistics Volume 34, Number 2that the quality of the English is quite poor: The dozens of spelling and grammaticalmistakes impair the quality and, at times, readability of the work.The first two chapters of the book, introducing the topic and detailing the historyof IE, are most interesting and present an overview of the development of the field thatis hard to find in other work.
One might have expected to find more about the MUCcompetitions in this section, which shaped the way for much current research in IE bypushing the technology towards real applications and providing amechanism bywhichfuture tools could be evaluated and compared.
There is some discussion of the MUCevaluationmethodology later in the book, however.
The chapter on symbolic techniquesis also written very much from a historical perspective, but does not seem to contributemuch to the book as a whole, and is probably of most interest to linguistics students.The chapter on pattern recognition, which one might expect to deal with approaches forrule-based IE, focuses more on investigating the different information units and featuresthat are used for machine-learning techniques, described in the following chapters.Whereas the classification of which features are useful for which tasks is most useful,the omission of more discussion about hand-crafted approaches is a little disappointing.The section on active learning also has some omissions.
There is no reference to some ofthe earliest work such as that of Thompson, Califf, and Mooney (1999), and the author?sclaim that experiments with such techniques are ?recent and limited?
is perhaps a littletoo dismissive.The chapters on supervised and unsupervised classification are geared towardsdescribing different machine-learning methods with particular respect to IE tasks suchas named entity recognition, and give a very detailed overview of the approachespossible.
A useful addition would have been a summary of the pros and cons of eachmethod: The reader has to delve deep into each section in order to find this information.The material is well described but still quite difficult to follow for someone withouta statistics background?it?s definitely not a ?Machine Learning for Dummies?
?andagain, more examples would have been useful.Chapter 7 discusses how the results of IE could be applied to retrieval models.
Itfirst describes the IR models used, which is interesting for someone unfamiliar with thefield.
However, the discussion of the integration of IE does not seem convincing andthere is once again a lack of real examples which would strengthen the arguments.Chapter 8 is devoted to evaluation techniques for IE.
Although the explanation isthorough, it is quite complicated and would have benefited from a discussion of thedifference between the approaches and the appropriateness of each for different tasks.The complicated ACE value, as used in the Automatic Content Extraction series (asuccessor of MUC) is explained in great detail, but even so it is hard for the reader tograsp the intricacies of the model and a real understanding of the benefits of each partof it.
Most of the discussion is limited to MUC and ACE measures; however it wouldhave been even more interesting if the author had investigated other possible criteria,which are only briefly mentioned at the end, and with no indication of how to evaluatethem.
For example, the difficulty of evaluating information extraction with respect to anontology is not discussed, yet this is a very timely and important issue with the adventof systems that categorize entities into many related classes, rather than the handful ofclasses traditionally used.Chapter 9 aims to illustrate the different IE approaches and tasks with a set ofapplications, looking at six domains in which IE is commonly used: news, biomedicine,criminal intelligence, and business, legal, and informal texts.
The focus is more on theneeds and problems in these areas than on specific applications that have been devel-oped.
Although the chapter gives quite a good overview of these domains, it would316Book Reviewshave been useful to see some more concrete examples explaining exactly how the use ofIE technology would be of use, as is done for the intelligence domain.
For example, thesection on news texts just describes the MUC and ACE competitions but might leavethe uninitiated reader still guessing as to what the technology might practically be usedfor in this field.
Some interesting problems are highlighted but unfortunately there areno real solutions to these as yet: for example, problems in the scalability of IE systemsare still a major impediment to the more-widespread uptake of such tools in industry.The final chapter sums up the most important findings from the previous chaptersand makes some suggestions for the future of Information Extraction in a retrievalcontext.
Although it does not offer any earth shattering new ideas here, it does makesome very valid points about the importance of relation finding and advanced retrievaltechniques.In summary, the book offers a useful overview of the field of IE for those unfamiliarwith the topic, but it is probably not for those seeking novel ideas or an application-oriented approach.
It could be an appropriate textbook for those in the IR field lookingfor an introduction to IE, but probably not as useful for those in the IE field looking toexpand their horizons into IR.
Overall, I would suggest the book as one for the libraryrather than the personal bookshelf.ReferencesCunningham, Hamish, Diana Maynard,Kalina Bontcheva, and Valentin Tablan.2002.
GATE: A framework and graphicaldevelopment environment for robust NLPtools and applications.
In Proceedings of the40th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL ?02),pages 168?175, Philadelphia, PA.Popov, Borislav, Atanas Kiryakov, DamyanOgnyanoff, Dimitar Manov, and AngelKirilov.
2004.
KIM?A semantic platformfor information extraction and retrieval.Natural Language Engineering,10(3/4):375?392.Thompson, Cynthia A., Mary ElaineCaliff, and Raymond J. Mooney.
1999.Active learning for natural languageparsing and information extraction.
InProceedings of the 16th International MachineLearning Conference, pages 406?414,Bled, Slovenia.Diana Maynard is a Research Associate at the University of Sheffield.
She has interests in in-formation extraction, tools for language engineering, terminology, evaluation, and accessibilityof technology.
Her address is Department of Computer Science, University of Sheffield, RegentCourt, 211 Portobello St., Sheffield, S1 4DP, UK; e-mail: diana@dcs.shef.ac.uk.317
