Last WordsWhat?s the Future for Computational Linguistics?Robert Dale?Macquarie University, SydneyYou are reading the last issue of Computational Linguistics that will appear in printedhardcopy form.
The beginning of 2009 heralds a new era for the journal in at leasttwo major respects: As of the first issue of volume 35, Computational Linguistics will bepublished only electronically, and it will be open access.
As editor, I?d like to take thisopportunity to use these last words that will tumble from the presses to provide someexplanation of the changes afoot at the journal, and to offer some thoughts on wherethis might take us in the future.1.
Why Open Access?There are a number of definitions of the term ?open access?
in circulation, but almost allshare the key principle that scientific literature should be freely available for all to read,download, copy, distribute, and use (with appropriate attribution) without restriction.At the time of writing, the vast bulk of scholarly literature is not open access: Eitheryou pay for access directly as an individual subscriber (for example, in the case ofComputational Linguistics, via your annual membership subscription to the Associationfor Computational Linguistics), or you gain access via an institutional subscription(typically, your library?s annual subscription to MIT Press).There is an increasingly widely held view that this is just not right.
Given thatalmost all the research published in scholarly journals is paid for by the taxpayer, it?sreasonable to ask what justification there can be for restricting public access to thisresearch by requiring that a further payment be made to read about it.
And ?toll access?,as it is sometimes called, is not only bad for the reading public; it has been frequentlyargued that it is bad for authors too, because any barriers to access may decrease thelikelihood of citation and the general impact of the reported work.So, as announced earlier this year at the annual meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics in Columbus, Ohio, Computational Linguistics will becomean open access journal as of the first issue of 2009.
In fact, for some time the journalhas had a rather unusual access status, whereby its content becomes freely available aspart of the online ACL Anthology one year after publication.1 As of the first issue ofVolume 35, even this delay will be removed, with the journal?s contents being freelyavailable as soon as they are published.?
Centre for Language Technology, Macquarie University, Sydney, New South Wales 2109, Australia.E-mail: rdale@ics.mq.edu.au.1 See http://aclweb.org/anthology-new/.
In practice, for some material this one-year embargo on freeaccess is closer to two years, as a consequence of the batching-up of uploads to the Anthology on anannual cycle, and the inevitable administrative delays.?
2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 34, Number 42.
Why Electronic-only?That the journal is going electronic-only and open access at the same time are notunrelated events.
Print publication is a major part of the cost of producing the journal,and this is a cost that is very considerably subsidized by the revenues generated byinstitutional subscriptions.
Going open access means that institutions no longer paythese subscriptions, and so we need a sustainable financial model that does not dependon this income.
Ceasing the production of the printed version of the journal is animportant step in that direction.
In an environmentally conscious age, it also has theadditional benefit of removing the need to fly, four times a year, small plastic-wrappedwads of paper to two thousand ACL members around the world.At the same time, there is no necessary connection between going open accessand going electronic-only.
In principle a journal could be open access and yet still bedistributed in printed form, although then an alternative funding source has to be foundfor print production.
One approach is that adopted by those publishers (such as Elsevierand Cambridge University Press) who offer authors the option of their work beingpublished open access in exchange for a fee, which can be anywhere between $500 and$2,000 per article.
This ?dissemination fee?
model has become accepted practice in somedisciplines, but not?so far, at least?in ours.
There are other business models one couldadopt to sustain print production.
For example, free local newspapers and many trademagazines are also effectively open access, with their production costs being paid forby advertisers; but it seems unlikely that advertising revenue could sustain a scholarlyjournal like CL.
Another alternative would be to seek sponsorship from corporationslike Google and Microsoft.
But in the Internet age, it just seems perverse to bend overbackwards to find ways to kill more trees.This is not to say that going electronic-only makes the journal free of productioncosts.
Although the journal?s editor, editorial board, and external reviewers providetheir labor free of charge, it still costs real money to produce the journal: In partic-ular, CL will continue to use the professional services of the MIT Press in managingthe high standards of copyediting and typesetting to which our readers have becomeaccustomed.
For the foreseeable future at least, these costs will continue to be met bythe ACL, as owner of the journal.3.
What Else is Changing?The shift to electronic publication means that publishing an article in ComputationalLinguistics should be considerably faster than before, for a number of reasons.
Under theold model, it can take up to six months from the time that the editorial office dispatchesthe author?s final copy of an article to the publisher, to the time the article appears inprint.
Around half of this time is taken up by the print production process.
The delayis further exacerbated by the fact that the first article that is ready for an issue has towait until the remainder of the issue is ready before it can be published.
By moving toelectronic-only publication, articles will now appear online as soon as they have gonethrough the copy-editing process, on an article-by-article basis.
You?ll be able to accessarticles even before they have completed the copy-editing cycle.
This, in fact, is not anew thing: for the last year or so, we have been publishing what are referred to as the?first revises?
of articles?these being the proofs that are sent to the authors for checkingbefore final edits are made?via the MIT Press Web site under the label ?Early Access?.But the unavailability of an easy way to let individual subscribers see this toll-access622Dale What?s the Future for Computational Linguistics?content meant that very few people were aware of its existence.
With the move to openaccess, the Early Access articles will also be freely available to all.Another consequence of being electronic-only is that there will be no artificial back-log resulting from the page limits imposed by physical print production.
Previously,the journal?s cost model meant that we could publish 160 or so pages each quarter; theremoval of print production provides us with more flexibility, and the likelihood thatthe journal will publish a greater number of articles (although, as indicated previously,there will still be costs associated with this: Copyeditors and typesetters charge perpage).
Being freed from paper bindings does not mean that processing backlogs willcompletely disappear, because there are other places in the publication process wheredelays can occur.
For example, an unpredictable copyediting workload may lead todelays when our demand for copyediting services outstrips the available resources.We hope that readers who keenly look forward to receiving an issue of the journalin their pigeonhole every three months will not suffer too much from a sense of loss.Members of the ACL will instead be able to subscribe to a number of electronic alertingoptions which either direct them to a download location for the latest journal content,or provide the content in the form of email attachments.
The full details of our elec-tronic delivery mechanisms are still being worked out at the time of writing, but ACLmembers will already have been notified of them by the time this issue is published.We are taking advantage of the shift to electronic-only publication to institute anumber of other changes.
Most visible for authors will be our move to an online journalmanuscript management system, which should introduce efficiencies that will shavea few more days off the time our reviewing process takes.
For readers, each articlepublished in the journal will be available in both PDF format and in XML format, thelatter allowing easy reading on screen.4.
What Does the Longer-term Future Look Like?Over the next year or two we intend to introduce a number of further changes that be-come more straightforward as a consequence of our primary existence being electronic.Possibilities we are exploring include making available for download supplementarymaterials such as the code and data associated with articles, and providing each articlewith an online discussion forum where its content can be discussed.
The editor wel-comes suggestions and ideas for how we can improve the value of the journal to itsreadership along these lines.There is a longer-term question, though, about the nature of journals and whetherthey are a sustainable means of scholarly dissemination in the Internet age.
The pub-lication landscape has changed significantly in the last 10 years.
One challenge to theposition of journals and existing forms of scholarly publication more generally comes inthe shape of blogs and other online discussion fora.
Obviously these are not rigorouslyreviewed in the way that journals are, but they are open to other means of qualityassessment, via machinery like page rank and reader voting.
For some purposes, thelow cost and democratic openness these offer may outweigh the deficiencies that arisefrom the lack of a conventional peer-review process.
Ultimately, how these alternativefora will fare as a means of scholarly publication may be determined by whether we candevelop a credit assignment mechanism that gives due recognition for great ideas thatfirst surface in these more informal spaces.
This would have to be more fine-grainedthan our current model of journal impact factors and bald citation counts; but moretraditional forms of publication would surely benefit from improvements here too.623Computational Linguistics Volume 34, Number 4Another challenge comes from online shared knowledge repositories such asWikipedia and, more recently, Google?s Knols project.
Who needs a static survey articlein a journal in an era of Web resources that are constantly kept up-to-date?
The art ofwriting survey articles for journals will no doubt continue to be practiced for some time,but not because it?s the best way to provide this kind of material; conventional surveyarticles will persist for only as long as there is no alternative means of gaining academiccredit for work of this kind.
It?s entirely possible that, within a few years, Knols willfrequently be cited in the pages of journals like this one.These are future challenges for journals in any discipline.
In our field, journals facea challenge from another direction, closer to home.
It has often been noted that, incomputer science generally, conference publication counts as much as journal publi-cation.
In fact, a paper in a good conference can be worth much more than an article ina mid-ranking journal.
Given the substantial additional effort that is usually requiredto produce a journal article, and the longer reviewing process that is subsequentlyinvolved, it?s perhaps a surprise that journals receive any submissions at all.
So whydon?t we just let journals die, and allow conferences to become the primary means ofscientific communication in the field?Conferences play an important role in many disciplines, but they do not fulfil allthe requirements for the ongoing development of a healthy scientific base.
Over the lastfew years, there has been increasing disquiet about the way our premier conferences areevolving.
A common complaint is that only ?safe?
work delivering incremental resultsis accepted, which leads to a vicious cycle where this is the only type of work thatgets submitted, and maybe even the only type of work that gets done.
One also hearscomplaints that acceptance rates are too low, and that the events have become, well, justplain dull.
Other disciplines adopt a different model, where journals remain the primaryrepositories for well-considered and rigorously reviewed research that is consideredfit to enter the archives of knowledge in the field; conferences are first and foremostmeeting places, where acceptance rates are high, and much of the work presented iswork-in-progress, the initial outings of ideas that are yet to be further developed.
Somewould argue that such events are more exciting and engaging than conferences in ourfield, where the assumed high calibre of the work presented can be thrown into questionby occasionally random and hasty reviewing processes.The defining property of a scholarly journal, and one that persists independent ofthe medium used for content delivery, is the adherence to a robust and thorough qualitycontrol process, all the way from the use of carefully chosen expert reviewers andfeedback?response cycles to detailed copyediting that improves the wording andmakessure bibliographic references are complete.
Stripped of its covers in an electronic age, ajournal is a brand; a journal name serves as an indicator of quality.
The stamp of qualitya journal provides is even more important in an age of abundant publication; with somuch to read, it becomes imperative that journals short-circuit the quality assessmentprocesses that readers would otherwise have to undertake themselves.It is inevitable that journals will change in unforeseen ways in the coming decades,but they will continue to serve their function as trusted gateways to trustable resources.Here at Computational Linguistics, we aim to take on board ideas that arise from newerforms of media and find ways of adopting and adapting them; but we also aim tocontinue to be seen as a source of the highest quality research in the field.
I hope you?llcontinue reading, and that you?ll consider Computational Linguistics the publicationforum of choice in our discipline.624
