Unsupervised Type and Token Identificationof Idiomatic ExpressionsAfsaneh Fazly?University of TorontoPaul Cook?
?University of TorontoSuzanne Stevenson?University of TorontoIdiomatic expressions are plentiful in everyday language, yet they remain mysterious, as itis not clear exactly how people learn and understand them.
They are of special interest tolinguists, psycholinguists, and lexicographers, mainly because of their syntactic and semanticidiosyncrasies as well as their unclear lexical status.
Despite a great deal of research on theproperties of idioms in the linguistics literature, there is not much agreement on which propertiesare characteristic of these expressions.
Because of their peculiarities, idiomatic expressions havemostly been overlooked by researchers in computational linguistics.
In this article, we lookinto the usefulness of some of the identified linguistic properties of idioms for their automaticrecognition.
Specifically, we develop statistical measures that each model a specific propertyof idiomatic expressions by looking at their actual usage patterns in text.
We use these sta-tistical measures in a type-based classification task where we automatically separate idiomaticexpressions (expressions with a possible idiomatic interpretation) from similar-on-the-surfaceliteral phrases (for which no idiomatic interpretation is possible).
In addition, we use some ofthe measures in a token identification task where we distinguish idiomatic and literal usages ofpotentially idiomatic expressions in context.1.
IntroductionIdioms form a heterogeneous class, with prototypical examples such as by and large, kickthe bucket, and let the cat out of the bag.
It is hard to find a single agreed-upon definitionthat covers all members of this class (Glucksberg 1993; Cacciari 1993; Nunberg, Sag,and Wasow 1994), but they are often defined as sequences of words involving some de-gree of semantic idiosyncrasy or non-compositionality.
That is, an idiom has a different?
Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto, 6 King?s College Rd., Toronto, ON M5S 3G4,Canada.
E-mail: afsaneh@cs.toronto.edu.??
Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto, 6 King?s College Rd., Toronto, ON M5S 3G4,Canada.
E-mail: pcook@cs.toronto.edu.?
Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto, 6 King?s College Rd., Toronto, ON M5S 3G4,Canada.
E-mail: suzanne@cs.toronto.edu.Submission received: 12 September 2007; revised submission received: 29 February 2008; accepted forpublication: 6 May 2008.?
2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1meaning from the simple composition of the meaning of its component words.
Idiomsare widely and creatively used by speakers of a language to express ideas cleverly, eco-nomically, or implicitly, and thus appear in all languages and in all text genres (Sag et al2002).
Many expressions acquire an idiomatic meaning over time (Cacciari 1993); conse-quently, new idioms come into existence on a daily basis (Cowie, Mackin, and McCaig1983; Seaton and Macaulay 2002).
Automatic tools are therefore necessary for assistinglexicographers in keeping lexical resources up to date, as well as for creating and ex-tending computational lexicons for use in natural language processing (NLP) systems.Though completely frozen idioms, such as by and large, can be represented aswords with spaces (Sag et al 2002), most idioms are syntactically well-formed phrasesthat allow some variability in expression, such as shoot the breeze and hold fire (Gibbsand Nayak 1989; d?Arcais 1993; Fellbaum 2007).
Such idioms allow a varying degreeof morphosyntactic flexibility?for example, held fire and hold one?s fire allow for anidiomatic reading, whereas typically only a literal interpretation is available for fire washeld and held fires.
Clearly, a words-with-spaces approach does not work for phrasalidioms.
Hence, in addition to requiring NLP tools for recognizing idiomatic expressions(types) to include in a lexicon, methods for determining the allowable and preferredusages (a.k.a.
canonical forms) of such expressions are also needed.
Moreover, in manysituations, an NLP system will need to distinguish a usage (token) of a potentiallyidiomatic expression as either idiomatic or literal in order to handle a given sequence ofwords appropriately.
For example, a machine translation system must translate held firedifferently in The army held their fire and The worshippers held the fire up to the idol.Previous studies focusing on the automatic identification of idiom types have oftenrecognized the importance of drawing on their linguistic properties, such as their se-mantic idiosyncrasy or their restricted flexibility, pointed out earlier.
Some researchershave relied on a manual encoding of idiom-specific knowledge in a lexicon (Copestakeet al 2002; Odijk 2004; Villavicencio et al 2004), whereas others have presented ap-proaches for the automatic acquisition of more general (hence less distinctive) knowl-edge from corpora (Smadja 1993; McCarthy, Keller, and Carroll 2003).
Recent workthat looks into the acquisition of the distinctive properties of idioms has been limited,both in scope and in the evaluation of the methods proposed (Lin 1999; Evert, Heid,and Spranger 2004).
Our goal is to develop unsupervised means for the automaticacquisition of lexical, syntactic, and semantic knowledge about a broadly documentedclass of idiomatic expressions.Specifically, we focus on a cross-linguistically prominent class of phrasal idiomswhich are commonly and productively formed from the combination of a frequent verband a noun in its direct object position (Cowie, Mackin, and McCaig 1983; Nunberg,Sag, and Wasow 1994; Fellbaum 2002), for example, shoot the breeze, make a face, andpush one?s luck.
We refer to these as verb+noun idiomatic combinations or VNICs.1We present a comprehensive analysis of the distinctive linguistic properties of phrasalidioms, including VNICs (Section 2), and propose statistical measures that capture eachproperty (Section 3).
We provide a multi-faceted evaluation of the measures (Section 4),showing their effectiveness in the recognition of idiomatic expressions (types)?that is,separating them from similar-on-the-surface literal phrases?as well as their superiorityto existing state-of-the-art techniques.
Drawing on these statistical measures, we alsopropose an unsupervised method for the automatic acquisition of an idiom?s canonical1 We use the abbreviation VNIC and the term expression to refer to a verb+noun type with a potentialidiomatic meaning.
We use the terms instance and usage to refer to a token occurrence of an expression.62Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom Identificationforms (e.g., shoot the breeze as opposed to shoot a breeze), and show that it can successfullyaccomplish the task (Section 5).It is possible for a single VNIC to have both idiomatic and non-idiomatic (literal)meanings.
For example, make a face is ambiguous between an idiom, as in The little girlmade a funny face at her mother, and a literal combination, as in She made a face on thesnowman using a carrot and two buttons.
Despite the common perception that phrasesthat can be idioms are mainly used in their idiomatic sense, our analysis of 60 idiomshas shown otherwise.
We found that close to half of these also have a clear literalmeaning; and of those with a literal meaning, on average around 40% of their usagesare literal.
Distinguishing token phrases as idiomatic or literal combinations of words isthus essential for NLP tasks, such as semantic parsing and machine translation, whichrequire the identification of multiword semantic units.Most recent studies focusing on the identification of idiomatic and non-idiomatictokens either assume the existence of manually annotated data for a supervised clas-sification (Patrick and Fletcher 2005; Katz and Giesbrecht 2006), or rely on manuallyencoded linguistic knowledge about idioms (Uchiyama, Baldwin, and Ishizaki 2005;Hashimoto, Sato, and Utsuro 2006), or even ignore the specific properties of non-literal language and rely mainly on general purpose methods for the task (Birke andSarkar 2006).
We propose unsupervised methods that rely on automatically acquiredknowledge about idiom types to identify their token occurrences as idiomatic or literal(Section 6).
More specifically, we explore the hypothesis that the type-based knowledgewe automatically acquire about an idiomatic expression can be used to determinewhether an instance of the expression is used literally or idiomatically (token-basedknowledge).
Our experimental results show that the performance of the token-basedidiom identificationmethods proposed here is comparable to that of existing supervisedtechniques (Section 7).2.
Idiomaticity, Semantic Analyzability, and FlexibilityAlthough syntactically well-formed, phrasal idioms (including VNICs) involve a certaindegree of semantic idiosyncrasy.
This means that phrasal idioms are to some extentnontransparent; that is, even knowing the meaning of the individual component words,the meaning of the idiom is hard to determine without special context or previous ex-posure.
There is much evidence in the linguistics literature that idiomatic combinationsalso have idiosyncratic lexical and syntactic behavior.
Here, we first define semanticanalyzability and elaborate on its relation to semantic idiosyncrasy or idiomaticity.
Wethen expound on the lexical and syntactic behavior of VNICs, pointing out a suggestiverelation between the degree of idiomaticity of a VNIC and the degree of its lexicosyn-tactic flexibility.2.1 Semantic AnalyzabilityIdioms have been traditionally believed to be completely non-compositional (Fraser1970; Katz 1973).
This means that unlike compositional combinations, the meaningof an idiom cannot be solely predicted from the meaning of its parts.
Nonetheless,many linguists and psycholinguists argue against such a view, providing evidencefrom idioms that show some degree of semantic compositionality (Nunberg, Sag, andWasow 1994; Gibbs 1995).
The alternative view suggests that many idioms in fact do63Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1have internal semantic structure, while recognizing that they are not compositional in asimplistic or traditional sense.
To explain the semantic behavior of idioms, researcherswho take this alternative view thus use new terms such as semantic decomposabilityand/or semantic analyzability in place of compositionality.To say that an idiom is semantically analyzable to some extent means that theconstituents contribute some sort of independent meaning?not necessarily their literalsemantics?to the overall idiomatic interpretation.
Generally, the more semanticallyanalyzable an idiom is, the easier it is to map the idiom constituents onto their cor-responding idiomatic referents.
In other words, the more semantically analyzable anidiom is, the easier it is to make predictions about the idiomatic meaning from themeaning of the idiom parts.
Semantic analyzability is thus inversely related to semanticidiosyncrasy.Many linguists and psycholinguists conclude that idioms clearly form a heteroge-neous class, not all of them being truly non-compositional or unanalyzable (Abeille?1995; Moon 1998; Grant 2005).
Rather, semantic analyzability in idioms is a matter ofdegree.
For example, the meaning of shoot the breeze (?to chat idly?
), a highly idiomaticexpression, has nothing to do with either shoot or breeze.
A less idiomatic expression,such as spill the beans (?to reveal a secret?
), may be analyzed as spill metaphoricallycorresponding to ?reveal?
and beans referring to ?secret(s).?
An idiom such as pop thequestion is even less idiomatic because the relations between the idiom parts and theiridiomatic referents are more directly established, namely, pop corresponds to ?suddenlyask?
and question refers to ?marriage proposal.?
As we will explain in the followingsection, there is evidence that the difference in the degree of semantic analyzability ofidiomatic expressions is also reflected in their lexical and syntactic behavior.2.2 Lexical and Syntactic FlexibilityMost idioms are known to be lexically fixed, meaning that the substitution of a near syn-onym (or a closely related word) for a constituent part does not preserve the idiomaticmeaning of the expression.
For example, neither shoot the wind nor hit the breeze are validvariations of the idiom shoot the breeze.
Similarly, spill the beans has an idiomatic meaning,while spill the peas and spread the beans have only literal interpretations.
There are, how-ever, idiomatic expressions that have one (or more) lexical variants.
For example, blowone?s own trumpet and toot one?s own horn have the same idiomatic interpretation (Cowie,Mackin, and McCaig 1983); also keep one?s cool and lose one?s cool have closely relatedmeanings (Nunberg, Sag, and Wasow 1994).
Nonetheless, it is not the norm for idiomsto have lexical variants; when they do, there are usually unpredictable restrictions onthe substitutions they allow.Idiomatic combinations are also syntactically distinct from compositional combi-nations.
Many VNICs cannot undergo syntactic variations and at the same time retaintheir idiomatic interpretations.
It is important, however, to note that VNICs differ withrespect to the extent to which they can tolerate syntactic operations, that is, the degreeof syntactic flexibility they exhibit.
Some are syntactically inflexible for the most part,whereas others are more versatile, as illustrated in the sentences in Examples (1) and (2):1.
(a) Sam and Azin shot the breeze.
(b) ??
Sam and Azin shot a breeze.
(c) ??
Sam and Azin shot the breezes.
(d) ??
Sam and Azin shot the casual breeze.64Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom Identification(e) ??
The breeze was shot by Sam and Azin.
(f) ??
The breeze that Sam and Azin shot was quite refreshing.
(g) ??
Which breeze did Sam and Azin shoot?2.
(a) Azin spilled the beans.
(b) ?
Azin spilled some beans.
(c) ??
Azin spilled the bean.
(d) Azin spilled the Enron beans.
(e) The beans were spilled by Azin.
(f) The beans that Azin spilled caused Sam a lot of trouble.
(g) Which beans did Azin spill?Linguists have often explained the lexical and syntactic flexibility of idiomaticcombinations in terms of their semantic analyzability (Fellbaum 1993; Gibbs 1993;Glucksberg 1993; Nunberg, Sag, and Wasow 1994; Schenk 1995).
The common beliefis that because the constituents of a semantically analyzable idiom can be mapped ontotheir corresponding referents in the idiomatic interpretation, analyzable (less idiomatic)expressions are often more open to lexical substitution and syntactic variation.
Psy-cholinguistic studies also support this hypothesis: Gibbs and Nayak (1989) and Gibbset al (1989), through a series of psychological experiments, demonstrate that there isvariation in the degree of lexicosyntactic flexibility of idiomatic combinations.
(Bothstudies narrow their focus to verb phrase idiomatic combinations, mainly of the formverb+noun.)
Moreover, their findings provide evidence that the lexical and syntacticflexibility of VNICs is not arbitrary, but rather correlates with the semantic analyzabilityof these idioms as perceived by the speakers participating in the experiments.Corpus-based studies such as those by Moon (1998), Riehemann (2001), and Grant(2005) conclude that idioms are not as fixed as most have assumed.
These claims areoften based on observing certain idiomatic combinations in a form other than their so-called canonical forms.
For example, Moon mentions that she has observed both kickthe pail and kick the can as variations of kick the bucket.
Also, Grant finds evidence ofvariations such as eat one?s heart (out) and eat one?s hearts (out) in the BNC.
Riehemannconcludes that in contrast to non-idiomatic combinations of words, ?idioms have astrongly preferred canonical form, but at the same time the occurrence of lexical andsyntactic variations of idioms is too common to be ignored?
(page 67).
Our understand-ing of such findings is that idiomatic combinations are not inherently frozen and that itis possible for them to appear in forms other than their agreed-upon canonical forms.However, it is important to note that most such observed variations are constrained,often with unpredictable restrictions.We are well aware that semantic analyzability is neither a necessary nor a sufficientcondition for an idiomatic combination to be lexically or syntactically flexible.
Otherfactors, such as communicative intentions and pragmatic constraints, can motivate aspeaker to use a variant in place of a canonical form (Glucksberg 1993).
For exam-ple, journalism is well known for manipulating idiomatic expressions for humor orcleverness (Grant 2005).
The age and the degree of familiarity of an idiom have alsobeen shown to be important factors that affect its flexibility (Gibbs and Nayak 1989).Nonetheless, linguists often use observations about lexical and syntactic flexibility ofVNICs in order to make judgments about their degree of idiomaticity (Kyto?
1999;Tanabe 1999).
We thus conclude that lexicosyntactic behavior of a VNIC, althoughaffected by historical and pragmatic factors, can be at least partially explained in termsof semantic analyzability or idiomaticity.65Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 13.
Automatic Acquisition of Type-Based Knowledge about VNICsWe use the observed connection between idiomaticity and (in)flexibility to devise sta-tistical measures for automatically distinguishing idiomatic verb+noun combinations(types) from literal phrases.
More specifically, we aim to identify verb?noun pairs suchas ?keep, word?
as having an associated idiomatic expression (keep one?s word), andalso distinguish these from verb?noun pairs such as ?keep, fish?
which do not havean idiomatic interpretation.
Although VNICs vary in their degree of flexibility (cf.Examples (1) and (2)), on the whole they contrast with fully compositional phrases,which are more lexically productive and appear in a wider range of syntactic forms.
Wethus propose to use the degree of lexical and syntactic flexibility of a given verb+nouncombination to determine the level of idiomaticity of the expression.Note that our assumption here is in line with corpus-linguistic studies on idioms:we do not claim that it is inherently impossible for VNICs to undergo lexical sub-stitution or syntactic variation.
In fact, for each given idiomatic combination, it maywell be possible to find a specific situation in which a lexical or a syntactic variant ofthe canonical form is perfectly plausible.
However, the main point of the assumptionhere is that VNICs are more likely to appear in fixed forms (known as their canonicalforms), more so than non-idiomatic phrases.
Therefore, the overall distribution of aVNIC in different lexical and syntactic forms is expected to be notably different fromthe corresponding distribution of a typical verb+noun combination.The following subsections describe our proposed statistical measures for idiomatic-ity, which quantify the degree of lexical, syntactic, and overall fixedness of a givenverb+noun combination (represented as a verb?noun pair).3.1 Measuring Lexical FixednessA VNIC is lexically fixed if the replacement of any of its constituents by a semantically(and syntactically) similar word does not generally result in another VNIC, but inan invalid or a literal expression.
One way of measuring lexical fixedness of a givenverb+noun combination is thus to examine the idiomaticity of its variants, that is,expressions generated by replacing one of the constituents by a similar word.
Thisapproach has twomain challenges: (i) it requires prior knowledge about the idiomaticityof expressions (which is what we are developing our measure to determine); (ii) it canonly measure the lexical fixedness of idiomatic combinations, and so could not apply toliteral combinations.
We thus interpret this property statistically in the following way:We expect a lexically fixed verb+noun combination to appear much more frequentlythan its variants in general.Specifically, we examine the strength of association between the verb and thenoun constituent of a combination (the target expression or its lexical variants) asan indirect cue to its idiomaticity, an approach inspired by Lin (1999).
We use theautomatically built thesaurus of Lin (1998) to find words similar to each constituent,in order to automatically generate variants.2 Variants are generated by replacing either2 We also replicated our experiments with an automatically built thesaurus created from the BritishNational Corpus (BNC) in a similar fashion, and kindly provided to us by Diana McCarthy.
Resultswere similar, hence we do not report them here.66Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom Identificationthe noun or the verb constituent of a pair with a semantically (and syntactically) similarword.3Examples of automatically generated variants for the pair ?spill, bean?
are ?pour,bean?, ?stream, bean?, ?spill, corn?, and ?spill, rice?.Let Ssim(v) = {vi | 1 ?
i ?
Kv} be the set of the Kv most similar verbs to the verb vof the target pair ?v,n?, and Ssim(n) ={nj | 1 ?
j ?
Kn}be the set of the Kn most similarnouns to the noun n (according to Lin?s thesaurus).
The set of variants for the target pairis thus:Ssim(v,n) = {?vi,n?| 1 ?
i ?
Kv} ?
{?v,nj?| 1 ?
j ?
Kn}.We calculate the association strength for the target pair and for each of its variantsusing an information-theoretic measure called pointwise mutual information or PMI(Church et al 1991):PMI(vr, nt) = logP(vr, nt)P(vr)P(nt)= logNv+n f (vr, nt)f (vr, ?)
f (?, nt)(1)where ?vr, nt?
?
{?v, n?}
?
Ssim(v,n); Nv+n is the total number of verb?object pairs in thecorpus; f (vr, nt) is the frequency of vr and nt co-occurring as a verb?object pair; f (vr, ?
)is the total frequency of the target (transitive) verb with any noun as its direct object;and f (?, nt) is the total frequency of the noun nt in the direct object position of any verbin the corpus.In his work, Lin (1999) assumes that a target expression is non-compositional if andonly if its PMI value is significantly different from that of all the variants.
Instead, wepropose a novel technique that brings together the association strengths (PMI values)of the target and the variant expressions into a single measure reflecting the degree oflexical fixedness for the target pair.
We assume that the target pair is lexically fixed tothe extent that its PMI deviates from the average PMI of its variants.
By ourmeasure, thetarget pair is considered lexically fixed (i.e., is given a high fixedness score) only if thedifference between its PMI value and that of most of its variants?not necessarily all, asin themethod of Lin (1999)?is high.4 Ourmeasure calculates this deviation, normalizedusing the sample?s standard deviation:Fixednesslex(v, n).=PMI(v, n)?
PMIs (2)3 In an early version of this work (Fazly and Stevenson 2006), only the noun constituent was variedbecause we expected replacing the verb constituent with a related verb to be more likely to yield anotherVNIC, as in keep/lose one?s cool, give/get the bird, crack/break the ice (Nunberg, Sag, and Wasow 1994; Grant2005).
Later experiments on the development data showed that variants generated by replacing bothconstituents, one at a time, produce better results.4 This way, even if an idiom has a few frequently used variants (e.g., break the ice and crack the ice), it maystill be assigned a high fixedness score if most other variants are uncommon.
Note also that it is possiblethat some variants of a given idiom are frequently used literal expressions (e.g., make biscuit for takebiscuit).
It is thus important to use a flexible formulation that relies on the collective evidence (e.g.,average PMI) and hence is less sensitive to individual cases.67Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1where PMI is the mean and s the standard deviation of the following sample:{PMI(vr, nt) | ?vr, nt?
?
{?v, n?}
?
Ssim(v,n)}PMI can be negative, zero, or positive; thus Fixednesslex(v, n) ?
[??,+?
], where highpositive values indicate higher degrees of lexical fixedness.3.2 Measuring Syntactic FixednessCompared to literal (non-idiomatic) verb+noun combinations, VNICs are expected toappear in more restricted syntactic forms.
To quantify the syntactic fixedness of a targetverb?noun pair, we thus need to: (i) identify relevant syntactic patterns, namely, thosethat help distinguish VNICs from literal verb+noun combinations; and (ii) translate thefrequency distribution of the target pair in the identified patterns into a measure ofsyntactic fixedness.3.2.1 Identifying Relevant Patterns.
Determining a unique set of syntactic patterns appro-priate for the recognition of all idiomatic combinations is difficult indeed: Exactly whichforms an idiomatic combination can occur in is not entirely predictable (Sag et al 2002).Nonetheless, there are hypotheses about the difference in behavior of VNICs and literalverb+noun combinations with respect to particular syntactic variations (Nunberg, Sag,and Wasow 1994).
Linguists note that semantic analyzability of VNICs is related tothe referential status of the noun constituent (i.e., the process of idiomatization of averb+noun combination is believed to be accompanied by a change from concretenessto abstractness for the noun).
The referential status of the noun is in turn assumed tobe related to the participation of the combination in certain morpho-syntactic forms.In what follows, we describe three types of syntactic variation that are assumed to bemostly tolerated by literal combinations, but less tolerated by many VNICs.Passivization.
There is much evidence in the linguistics literature that VNICs often donot undergo passivization.
Linguists mainly attribute this to the fact that in most cases,only referential nouns appear as the surface subject of a passive construction (Gibbsand Nayak 1989).
Due to the non-referential status of the noun constituent in mostVNICs, we expect that they do not undergo passivization as often as literal verb+nouncombinations do.
Another explanation for this assumption is that passives are mainlyused to put focus on the object of a clause or sentence.
For most VNICs, no suchcommunicative purpose can be served by topicalizing the noun constituent throughpassivization (Jackendoff 1997).
The passive construction is thus considered as one ofthe syntactic patterns relevant to measuring syntactic flexibility.5Determiner type.
A strong correlation has been observed between the flexibility of thedeterminer preceding the noun in a verb+noun combination and the overall flexibilityof the phrase (Fellbaum 1993; Kearns 2002; Desbiens and Simon 2003).
It is however5 Note that there are idioms that appear primarily in a passivized form, for example, the die is cast (?thedecision is made and will not change?).
Our measure can in principle recognize such idioms because wedo not require that an idiom appears mainly in active form; rather, we include voice (passive or active) asan important part of the syntactic pattern of an idiomatic combination.68Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom Identificationimportant to note that the nature of the determiner is also affected by other factors,such as the semantic properties of the noun.
For this reason, determiner flexibility issometimes argued not to be a good predictor of the overall syntactic flexibility of an ex-pression.
Nonetheless, many researchers consider it as an important part in the processof idiomatization of a verb+noun combination (Akimoto 1999; Kyto?
1999; Tanabe 1999).We thus expect a VNIC to mainly appear with one type of determiner.Pluralization.
Although the verb constituent of a VNIC is morphologically flexible, themorphological flexibility of the noun relates to its referential status (Grant 2005).
Again,one should note that the use of a singular or plural noun in a VNICmay also be affectedby the semantic properties of the noun.
Recall that during the idiomatization process,the noun constituent may become more abstract in meaning.
In this process, the nounmay lose some of its nominal features, including number (Akimoto 1999).
The non-referential noun constituent of a VNIC is thus expected to mainly appear in just one ofthe singular or plural forms.Merging the three types of variation results in a pattern set, P , of 11 distinct syntac-tic patterns that are displayed in Table 1 along with examples for each pattern.
Whendeveloping this set of patterns, we have taken into account the linguistic theories aboutthe syntactic constraints on idiomatic expressions; for example, our choice of patternsis consistent with the idiom typology developed by Nicolas (1995).
Note that we mergesome of the individual patterns into one; for example, we include only one passivepattern independently of the choice of the determiner or the number of the noun.
Themotivation here is to merge low frequency patterns (i.e., those that are expected tobe less common) in order to acquire more reliable evidence on the distribution of aparticular verb?noun pair over the resulting pattern set.
In principle, however, the setcan be expanded to include more patterns; it can also be modified to contain differentpatterns for different classes of idiomatic combinations.3.2.2 Devising a Statistical Measure.
The second step is to devise a statistical measurethat quantifies the degree of syntactic fixedness of a verb?noun pair, with respect toTable 1Patterns used in the syntactic fixedness measure, along with examples for each.
A patternsignature is composed of a verb v in active (vact) or passive (vpass) voice; a determiner (det) thatcan be NULL, indefinite (a/an), definite (the), demonstrative (DEM), or possessive (POSS); and anoun n that can be singular (nsg) or plural (npl).Pattern No.
Pattern Signature Example1 vact det:NULL nsg give money2 vact det:a/an nsg give a book3 vact det:the nsg give the book4 vact det:DEM nsg give this book5 vact det:POSS nsg give my book6 vact det:NULL npl give books7 vact det:the npl give the books8 vact det:DEM npl give those books9 vact det:POSS npl give my books10 vact det:OTHER nsg,pl give many books11 vpass det:ANY nsg,pl a/the/this/my book/books was/were given69Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1the selected set of patterns, P .
We propose a measure that compares the syntacticbehavior of the target pair with that of a ?typical?
verb?noun pair.
Syntactic behav-ior of a typical pair is defined as the prior probability distribution over the patterns inP .
The maximum likelihood estimate for the prior probability of an individual patternpt ?
P is calculated asP(pt) =?vi?V?nj?Nf (vi, nj, pt)?vi?V?nj?N?ptk?Pf (vi, nj, ptk)=f (?, ?, pt)f (?, ?, ?
)(3)where V is the set of all instances of transitive verbs in the corpus, andN is the set of allinstances of nouns appearing as the direct object of some verb.The syntactic behavior of the target verb?noun pair ?v,n?
is defined as the posteriorprobability distribution over the patterns, given the particular pair.
The maximum like-lihood estimate for the posterior probability of an individual pattern pt is calculated asP(pt | v, n) =f (v, n, pt)?ptk?Pf (v, n, ptk)=f (v, n, pt)f (v, n, ?).
(4)The degree of syntactic fixedness of the target verb?noun pair is estimated asthe divergence of its syntactic behavior (the posterior distribution over the patterns)from the typical syntactic behavior (the prior distribution).
The divergence of the twoprobability distributions is calculated using a standard information-theoretic measure,the Kullback Leibler (KL-) divergence (Cover and Thomas 1991):Fixednesssyn (v, n).= D(P(pt | v,n) ||P(pt))=?ptk?PP(ptk | v, n) logP(ptk | v, n)P(ptk)(5)KL-divergence has proven useful in many NLP applications (Resnik 1999; Dagan,Pereira, and Lee 1994).
KL-divergence is always non-negative and is zero if and onlyif the two distributions are exactly the same.
Thus, Fixednesssyn(v, n) ?
[0,+?
], wherelarge values indicate higher degrees of syntactic fixedness.3.3 A Unified Measure of FixednessVNICs are hypothesized to be, in most cases, both lexically and syntactically more fixedthan literal verb+noun combinations (see Section 2).
We thus propose a new measure70Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom Identificationof idiomaticity to be a measure of the overall fixedness of a given pair.
We defineFixednessoverall (v, n) as a weighted combination of Fixednesslex and Fixednesssyn:Fixednessoverall (v, n).= ?
Fixednesssyn (v, n) + (1?
?)
Fixednesslex (v, n) (6)where ?weights the relative contribution of the measures in predicting idiomaticity.Recall that Fixednesslex(v, n) ?
[??,+?
], and Fixednesssyn(v, n) ?
[0,+?].
Tocombine them in the overall fixedness measure, we rescale them, so that they fall inthe range [0, 1].
Thus, Fixednessoverall(v, n) ?
[0, 1], where values closer to 1 indicate ahigher degree of overall fixedness.4.
VNIC Type Recognition: EvaluationTo evaluate our proposed fixedness measures, we analyze their appropriateness fordetermining the degree of idiomaticity of a set of experimental expressions (in the formof verb?noun pairs, extracted as described in Section 4.1).
More specifically, we first useeach measure to assign scores to the experimental pairs.
We then use the scores assignedby each measure to perform two different tasks, and assess the overall goodness of themeasure by looking at its performance in both.First, we look into the classification performance of each measure by using thescores to separate idiomatic verb?noun pairs from literal ones in a mixed list.
This isdone by setting a threshold, here the median score, where all pairs with scores higherthan the threshold are labeled as idiomatic and the rest as literal.6 For classification, wereport accuracy (Acc), as well as the relative error rate reduction (ERR) over a random(chance) baseline, referred to as Rand.
Second, we examine the retrieval performanceof our fixedness measures by using the scores to rank verb?noun pairs according totheir degree of idiomaticity.
For retrieval, we present the precision?recall curves, aswell as the interpolated three-point average precision or IAP?that is, the average ofthe interpolated precisions at the recall levels of 20%, 50%, and 80%.
The interpolatedaverage precision and precision?recall curves are commonly used for the evaluation ofinformation retrieval systems (Manning and Schu?tze 1999), and reflect the goodness ofa measure in placing the relevant items (here, idioms) before the irrelevant ones (here,literals).Idioms are often assumed to exhibit collocational behavior to some extent, that is,the components of an idiom are expected to appear together more often than expectedby chance.
Hence, someNLP systems have used collocational measures to identify them(Smadja 1993; Evert and Krenn 2001).
However, as discussed in Section 2, idioms havedistinctive syntactic and semantic properties that separate them from simple colloca-tions.
For example, although collocations involve some degree of semantic idiosyncrasy(strong tea vs. ?powerful tea), compared to idioms, they typically have a more transparentmeaning, and their syntactic behavior is more similar to that of literal expressions.
Wethus expect our fixedness measures that draw on the distinctive linguistic propertiesof idioms to be more appropriate than measures of collocation for the identification ofidioms.
To verify this hypothesis, in both the classification and retrieval tasks, we com-pare the performance of the fixedness measures with that of two collocation extractionmeasures: an informed baseline, PMI, and a position-based fixedness measure proposed6 We adopt the median for this particular (balanced) data set, understanding that in practice a suitablethreshold would need to be determined, e.g., based on development data.71Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1by Smadja (1993), which we refer to as Smadja.
Next, we provide more details on PMIand Smadja.PMI is a widely used measure for extracting statistically significant combinationsof words or collocations.
It has also been used for the recognition of idioms (Evert andKrenn 2001), warranting its use as an informed baseline here for comparison.7 As inEquation (1), our calculation of PMI here restricts the counts of the verb?noun pair tothe direct object relation.
Smadja (1993) proposes a collocation extraction method whichmeasures the fixedness of a word sequence (e.g., a verb?noun pair) by examining therelative position of the component words across their occurrences together.
We replicateSmadja?s method, where we measure fixedness of a target verb?noun pair as the spread(variance) of the co-occurrence frequency of the verb and the noun over 10 relativepositions within a five-word window.8Recall from Section 3.1 that our Fixednesslex measure is intended as an improve-ment over the non-compositionalitymeasure of Lin (1999).
For the sake of completeness,we also compare the classification performance of our Fixednesslex with that of Lin?s(1999) measure, which we refer to as Lin.9We first elaborate on the methodological aspects of our experiments in Section 4.1,and then present a discussion of the experimental results in Section 4.2.4.1 Experimental Setup4.1.1 Corpus and Data Extraction.
We use the British National Corpus (BNC; Burnard2000); to extract verb?noun pairs, along with information on the syntactic patterns theyappear in.
We automatically parse the BNC using the Collins parser (Collins 1999), andaugment it with information about verb and noun lemmas, automatically generatedusing WordNet (Fellbaum 1998).
We further process the corpus using TGrep2 (Rohde2004) in order to extract syntactic dependencies.
For each instance of a transitive verb,we use heuristics to extract the noun phrase (NP) in either the direct object position(if the sentence is active), or the subject position (if the sentence is passive).
We thenautomatically find the head noun of the extracted NP, its number (singular or plural),and the determiner introducing it.4.1.2 Experimental Expressions.
We select our development and test expressions fromverb?noun pairs that involve a member of a predefined list of transitive verbs, referredto as basic verbs.
Basic verbs, in their literal use, refer to states or acts that are centralto human experience.
They are thus frequent, highly polysemous, and tend to combinewith other words to form idiomatic combinations (Cacciari 1993; Claridge 2000; Gentnerand France 2004).
An initial list of such verbs was selected from several linguistic andpsycholinguistic studies on basic vocabulary (Ogden 1968; Clark 1978; Nunberg, Sag,andWasow 1994; Goldberg 1995; Pauwels 2000; Claridge 2000; Newman and Rice 2004).We further augmented this initial list with verbs that are semantically related to another7 PMI has been shown to perform better than or comparable to many other association measures (Inkpen2003; Mohammad and Hirst, submitted).
In our experiments, we also found that PMI consistentlyperforms better than two other association measures, the Dice coefficient and the log-likelihood measure.Experiments by Krenn and Evert (2001) showed contradicting results for PMI; however, theseexperiments were performed on small-sized corpora, and on data which contained items with very lowfrequency.8 We implement the method as explained in Smadja (1993), taking into account the part-of-speech tags ofthe target component words.9 We implement the method as explained in Lin (1999), using 95% confidence intervals.
We thus need toignore variants with frequency lower than 4 for which no confidence interval can be formed.72Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom Identificationverb already in the list; for example, lose is added in analogy with find.
Here is the finallist of the 28 verbs in alphabetical order:blow, bring, catch, cut, find, get, give, have, hear, hit, hold, keep, kick, lay, lose, make, move,place, pull, push, put, see, set, shoot, smell, take, throw, touchFrom the corpus, we extract all the verb?noun pairs (lemmas) that contain anyof these listed basic verbs, and that appear at least 10 times in the corpus in a directobject relation (irrespective of any intervening determiners or adjectives).
From these,we select a subset that are idiomatic, and another subset that are literal, as follows: Averb?noun pair is considered idiomatic if it appears in an idiom listed in a credibledictionary such as the Oxford Dictionary of Current Idiomatic English (ODCIE; Cowie,Mackin, and McCaig 1983), or the Collins COBUILD Idioms Dictionary (CCID; Seatonand Macaulay 2002).10 To decide whether a verb?noun pair has appeared in an idiom,we look for all idioms containing the verb and the noun in a direct-object relation,irrespective of any intervening determiners or adjectives, and/or any other arguments.The pair is considered literal if it involves a physical act or state (i.e., the basic semanticsof the verb) and does not appear in any of the mentioned dictionaries as an idiom (orpart of an idiom).
From the set of idiomatic pairs, we then randomly pull out 80 de-velopment pairs and 100 test pairs, ensuring that we have items of both low and highfrequency.
We then double the size of each data set (development and test) by addingequal numbers of literal pairs, with similar frequency distributions.
Some of the idiomscorresponding to the experimental idiomatic pairs are: kick the habit,move mountains, loseface, and keep one?s word.
Examples of literal pairs include: move carriage, lose ticket, andkeep fish.Development expressions are used in devising the fixedness measures, as well asin determining the values of their parameters as explained in the next subsection.
Testexpressions are saved as unseen data for the final evaluation.4.1.3 Parameter Settings.
Our lexical fixedness measure in Equation (2) involves twoparameters, Kv and Kn, which determine the number of lexical variants considered inmeasuring the lexical fixedness of a given verb?noun pair.
We make the least-biasedassumption on the proportion of variants generated by replacing the verb (Kv) andthose generated by replacing the noun (Kn)?that is, we assume Kv = Kn.11 We performexperiments on the development data, where we set the total number of variants (i.e.,Kv + Kn) from 10 to 100 by steps of 10.
(For simplicity, we refer to the total numberof variants as K).
Figure 1(a) shows the change in performance of Fixednesslex as afunction of K. Recall that Acc is the classification accuracy, and IAP reflects the averageprecision of a measure in ranking idiomatic pairs before non-idiomatic ones.
Accordingto these results, there is not much variation in the performance of the measure for10 Our development data also contains items from several other dictionaries, such as Chambers Idioms(Kirkpatrick and Schwarz 1982).
However, our test data, which is also used in the token-basedexperiments, however, only contains idioms from the two dictionaries ODCIE and CCID.
Resultsreported in this article are all on test pairs; development pairs are mainly used for the development of themethods.11 We also performed experiments on the development data in which we did not restrict the number ofvariants, and hence did not enforce the condition Kv = Kn.
Instead, we tried using a variety of thresholdson the similarity scores (from the thesaurus) in order to find the set of most similar words to a given verbor noun.
We found that fixing the number of most similar words is more effective than using a similaritythreshold, perhaps because the actual scores can be very different for different words.73Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1Figure 1%IAP and %Acc of Fixednesslex and Fixednessoverall over development data.K ?
20.
We thus choose an intermediate value for K that yields the highest accuracyand a reasonably high precision; specifically, we set K to 50.The overall fixedness measure defined in Equation (6) also uses a parameter, ?,which determines the relative weights given to the individual fixedness measures inthe linear combination.
We experiment on the development data with different valuesof ?
ranging from 0 to 1 by steps of .02; results are shown in Figure 1(b).
As can be seenin the figure, the accuracy of Fixednessoverall is not affected much by the change in thevalue of ?.
The average precision (IAP), however, shows that the combined measureperforms best when somewhat equal weights are given to the two individual measures,and performs worst when the lexical fixedness component is completely ignored (i.e.,?
is close to 1).
These results also reinforce that a complete evaluation of our fixednessmeasures should include both metrics, accuracy, and average precision, as they revealdifferent aspects of performance.
Here, for example, Fixednesssyn (?
= 1) has compa-rable accuracy to Fixednesslex (?
= 0), reflecting that the two measures generally givehigher scores to idioms.
However, the ranking precision of the latter is much higherthan that of the former, showing that Fixednesslex ranks many of the idioms at the verytop of the list.
In all our experiments reported here, we set ?
to .6, a value for whichFixednessoverall shows reasonably good performance according to both Acc and IAP.4.2 Experimental Results and AnalysisIn this section, we report the results of evaluating our measures on unseen test expres-sions, with parameters set to the values determined in Section 4.1.3.
(Results on devel-opment data have similar trends to those on test data.)
We analyze the classificationperformance of the individual lexical and syntactic fixedness measures in Section 4.2.1,and discuss their effectiveness for retrieval in Section 4.2.2.
Section 4.2.3 then looks intothe performance of the overall fixedness measure, and Section 4.2.4 presents a summaryand discussion of the results.4.2.1 Classification Performance.
Here, we look into the performance of the individualfixedness measures, Fixednesslex and Fixednesssyn, in classifying a mixed set of verb?noun pairs into idiomatic and literal classes.
We compare their performance against the74Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom IdentificationTable 2Accuracy and relative error reduction for the two fixedness measures, the two baselinemeasures, and Smadja, over all test pairs (TESTall), and test pairs divided by frequency(TESTflow and TESTfhigh ).TESTall TESTflowTESTfhighMeasure %Acc (%ERR) %Acc (%ERR) %Acc (%ERR)Rand 50 50 50PMI 63 (26) 56 (12) 70 (40)Smadja 54 (8) 64 (28) 62 (24)Fixednesslex 68 (36) 70 (40) 70 (40)Fixednesssyn 71 (42) 72 (44) 82 (64)two baselines, Rand and PMI, as well as the two state-of-the-art methods, Smadja andLin.
For analytical purposes, we further divide the set of all test expressions, TESTall,into two sets corresponding to two frequency bands: TESTflow contains 50 idiomaticand 50 literal pairs, each with total frequency (across all syntactic patterns underconsideration) between 10 and 40; TESTfhigh consists of 50 idiomatic and 50 literal pairs,each with total frequency of 40 or greater.
Classification performances of all measuresexcept Lin are given in Table 2.
Lin does not assign scores to the test verb?noun pairs,hence we cannot calculate its classification accuracy the same way we do for the othermethods (i.e., using median as the threshold).
A separate comparison between Lin andFixednesslex is provided at the end of this section.As can be seen in the first two columns of Table 2, the informed baseline, PMI, showsa large improvement over the random baseline (26% error reduction) on TESTall.
Thisshows that many VNICs have turned into institutionalized (i.e., statistically significant)co-occurrences.
Hence, one can get relatively good performance by treating verb+nounidiomatic combinations as collocations.
Fixednesslex performs considerably better thanthe informed baseline (36% vs. 26% error reduction on TESTall).
Fixednesssyn has the bestperformance (shown in boldface), with 42% error reduction over the random baseline,and 21.6% error reduction over PMI.
These results demonstrate that lexical and syntacticfixedness are good indicators of idiomaticity, better than a simple measure of colloca-tion such as PMI.
On TESTall, Smadja performs only slightly better than the randombaseline (8% error reduction), reflecting that a position-based fixedness measure is notsufficient for identifying idiomatic combinations.
These results suggest that looking intodeep linguistic properties of VNICs is necessary for the appropriate treatment of theseexpressions.12PMI is known to perform poorly on low frequency items.
To examine the effect offrequency on the measures, we analyze their performance on the two divisions of the12 Performing the ?2 test of statistical significance, we find that the differences between Smadja and ourlexical and syntactic fixedness measures are statistically significant at p < 0.05.
However, the differencesin performance between fixedness measures and PMI are not statistically significant.
Note that this doesnot imply that the differences are not substantial, rather that there is not enough evidence in the observeddata to reject the null hypothesis (that two methods perform the same in general) with high confidence.Moreover, ?2 is a non-parametric (distribution free) test and hence it has less power to reject a nullhypothesis.
Later, when we take into account the actual scores assigned by the measures, we find that alldifferences are statistically significant (see Sections 4.2.2?4.2.3 for more details).
All significance tests areperformed using the R (2004) package.75Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1test data, corresponding to the two frequency bands, TESTflow and TESTfhigh .
Results aregiven in the four rightmost columns of Table 2, with the best performance shown inboldface.
As expected, the performance of PMI drops substantially for low frequencyitems.
Interestingly, although it is a PMI-based measure, Fixednesslex has comparableperformance on all data sets.
The performance of Fixednesssyn improves quite a bitwhen it is applied to high frequency items, while maintaining similar performance onthe low frequency items.
These results show that the lexical and syntactic fixednessmeasures perform reasonably well on both low and high frequency items.13 Hence theycan be used with a higher degree of confidence, especially when applied to data that isheterogeneous with regard to frequency.
This is important because, while some VNICsare very common, others have very low frequency, as noted by Grant (2005).
Smadjashows a notable improvement in performance when data is divided by frequency.
Thiseffect is likely due to the fact that fixedness is measured as the spread of the position-based (raw) co-occurrence frequencies.
Nonetheless, on both data sets the performanceof Smadja remains substantially worse than that of our two fixedness measures (thedifferences are statistically significant in three out of the four comparisons at p < .05).Collectively, these results show that our linguisticallymotivated fixednessmeasuresare particularly suited for identifying idiomatic combinations, especially in comparisonwith more general collocation extraction techniques, such as PMI or the position-basedfixedness measure of Smadja (1993).
Especially, our measures tend to perform well onlow frequency items, perhaps due to their reliance on distinctive linguistic properties ofidioms.We now compare the classification performance of Fixednesslex to that of Lin.
UnlikeFixednesslex, Lin does not assign continuous scores to the verb?noun pairs, but ratherclassifies them as idiomatic or non-idiomatic.
Thus, we cannot use the same threshold(e.g., median) for the two methods to calculate their classification accuracies in a com-parable way.
Recall also from Section 3.1 that the performance of both these methodsdepends on the value of K (the number of variants).
We thus measure the classificationprecision of the methods at equivalent levels of recall, using the same number ofvariants K at each recall level for the two measures.
Varying K from 2 to 100 by steps of4, Lin and Fixednesslex achieve an average classification precision of 81.5% and 85.8%,respectively.
Performing a t-test on the precisions of the two methods confirms thatthe difference between the two is statistically significant at p < .001.
In addition, ourmethod has the advantage of assigning a score to a target verb?noun reflecting its degreeof lexical fixedness.
Such information can help a lexicographer decide whether a givenverb?noun should be placed in a lexicon.4.2.2 Retrieval Performance.
The classification results suggest that the individual fixed-ness measures are overall better than a simple measure of collocation at separatingidiomatic pairs from literal ones.
Here, we have a closer look at their performanceby examining their goodness in ranking verb?noun pairs according to their degreeof idiomaticity.
Recall that the fixedness measures are devised to reflect the degree offixedness and hence the degree of idiomaticity of a target verb?noun pair.
Thus, theresult of applying eachmeasure to a list of mixed pairs is a list that is ranked in the order13 In fact, the results show that the performance of both fixedness measures is better when data is dividedby frequency.
Although we expect better performance over high frequency items, more investigation isneeded to verify whether the improvement in performance over low frequency items is a meaningfuleffect or merely an accident of the data at hand.76Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom Identificationof idiomaticity.
For a measure to be considered good at retrieval, we expect idiomaticpairs to be very frequent near the top of the ranked list, and to become less frequenttowards the bottom.
Precision?recall curves are very indicative of this trend: The idealmeasure will have a precision of 100% for all values of recall, namely, themeasure placesall idiomatic pairs at the very top of the ranked list.
In reality, although the precisiondrops as recall increases, we expect a good measure to keep high precision at mostlevels of recall.Figure 2 depicts the interpolated precision?recall curves for PMI and Smadja, andfor the lexical, syntactic, and overall fixedness measures, over TESTall.
Note that theminimum interpolated precision is 50% due to the equal number of idiomatic and literalpairs in the test data.
In this section, we discuss the retrieval performance of the twoindividual fixedness measures; the next section analyzes the performance of the overallfixedness measure.The precision?recall curves of Smadja and PMI are nearly flat (with PMI consis-tently higher than Smadja), showing that the distribution of idiomatic pairs in the listsranked by these two measures is only slightly better than random.
A close look at theprecision?recall curve of Fixednesslex reveals that, up to the recall level of 50%, theprecision of this measure is substantially higher than that of PMI.
This means that,compared to PMI, Fixednesslex places more idiomatic pairs at the very top of the list.At higher recall levels (50% and higher), Fixednesslex still consistently outperforms PMI.Nonetheless, at these recall values, the twomeasures have relatively low precision (com-pared to the other measures), suggesting that both measures also put many idiomaticpairs near the bottom of the list.
In contrast, the precision?recall curve of Fixednesssynshows that its performance is consistently much better than that of PMI: Even at therecall level of 90%, its precision is close to 70% (cf.
55% precision of PMI).A comparison of the precision?recall curves of the two individual fixedness mea-sures reveals their complementary nature.
Compared to Fixednesslex, Fixednesssynmaintains higher precision at very high levels of recall, suggesting that the syntacticfixedness measure places fewer idiomatic pairs at the bottom of the ranked list.
In con-trast, Fixednesslex has notably higher precision than Fixednesssyn at recall levels of up to40%, suggesting that the former puts more idiomatic pairs at the top of the ranked list.Statistical significance tests confirm these observations: Using the Wilcoxon SignedRank test (1945), we find that both Fixednesslex and Fixednesssyn produce significantlydifferent rankings from PMI and Smadja (p  .001).
Also, the rankings of the itemsFigure 2Precision?recall curves for PMI, Smadja, and for the fixedness measures, over TESTall.77Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1Table 3Classification and retrieval performance of the overall fixedness measure over TESTall.Measure %Acc (%ERR) %IAPPMI 63 (26) 63.5Smadja 54 (8) 57.2Fixednesslex 68 (36) 75.3Fixednesssyn 71 (42) 75.9Fixednessoverall 74 (48) 84.7produced by the two individual fixedness measures are found to be significantly differ-ent at p < .01.4.2.3 Performance of the Overall Fixedness Measure.
We now look at the classificationand retrieval performance of the overall fixedness measure.
Table 3 presents %Acc,%ERR, and %IAP of Fixednessoverall, repeating that of PMI, Smadja, Fixednesslex, andFixednesssyn, for comparison.
Here again the error reductions are relative to the randombaseline of 50%.
Looking at classification performance (expressed in terms of %Accand %ERR), we can see that Fixednessoverall notably outperforms all other measures,including lexical and syntactic fixedness (18.8% error reduction relative to Fixednesslex,and 10% error reduction relative to Fixednesssyn).
According to the classificationresults, each of the lexical and syntactic fixedness measures are good at separatingidiomatic from literal combinations, with syntactic fixedness performing better.
Herewe demonstrate that combining them into a single measure of fixedness, while givingmore weight to the better measure, results in a more effective classifier.14 The overallbehavior of this measure as a function of ?
is displayed in Figure 3.As can be seen in Table 3, Fixednesslex and Fixednesssyn have comparable IAP:75.3% and 75.9%, respectively.
In comparison, Fixednessoverall has a much higher IAPof 84.7%, reinforcing the claim that combining evidence from both lexical and syntac-tic fixedness is beneficial.
Recall from Section 4.2.2 that the two individual fixednessmeasures exhibit complementary behavior, as observed in their precision?recall curvesshown in Figure 2.
The precision?recall curve of the overall fixedness measure showsthat this measure in fact combines advantages of the two individual measures: At mostrecall levels, Fixednessoverall has a higher precision than both individual measures.
Sta-tistical significance tests that look at the actual scores assigned by the measures confirmthat the observed differences in performance are significant.
The Wilcoxon Signed Ranktest shows that the Fixednessoverall measure produces a ranking that is significantlydifferent from those of the individual fixedness measures, the baseline PMI, and Smadja(at p .001).4.2.4 Summary and Discussion.
Overall, the worst performance belongs to the two collo-cation extraction methods, PMI and Smadja, both in classifying test pairs as idiomatic or14 Using a ?2 test, we find a statistically significant difference between the classification performance ofFixednessoverall and that of Smadja (p < 0.01), and also a marginally significant difference between theperformance of Fixednessoverall and that of PMI (p < .1).
Recall from footnote 12 (page 15) that noneof the individual measures?
performances significantly differed from that of PMI.
Nonetheless, nosignificant differences are found between the classification performance of Fixednessoverall and thatof the individual fixedness measures.78Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom IdentificationFigure 3Classification performance of Fixednessoverall on test data as a function of ?.literal, and in ranking the pairs according to their degree of idiomaticity.
This suggeststhat although some VNICs are institutionalized, many do not appear with markedlyhigh frequency, and hence only looking at their frequency is not sufficient for theirrecognition.
Moreover, a position-based fixedness measure does not seem to sufficientlycapture the syntactic fixedness of VNICs in contrast to the flexibility of literal phrases.Fixednessoverall is the best performer of all, supporting the hypothesis that many VNICsare both lexically and syntactically fixed, more so than literal verb+noun combinations.In addition, these results demonstrate that incorporating such linguistic properties intostatistical measures is beneficial for the recognition of VNICs.Althoughwe focus on experimental expressionswith frequency higher than 10, PMIstill shows great sensitivity to frequency differences, performing especially poorly onitems with frequency between 10 and 40.
In contrast, none of the fixedness measuresare as sensitive to such frequency differences.
Especially interesting is the consistentperformance of Fixednesslex, which is a PMI-based measure, on low and high frequencyitems.
These observations put further emphasis on the importance of devising newmethods for extracting multiword expressions with particular syntactic and semanticproperties, such as VNICs.To further analyze the performance of the fixedness measures, we look at the topand bottom 20 pairs (10%) in the lists ranked by each fixedness measure.
Interestingly,the list ranked by Fixednessoverall contains no false positives ( fp) in the top 20 items,and no false negatives ( fn) in the bottom 20 items, once again reinforcing the usefulnessof combining evidence from the individual lexical and syntactic fixedness measures.False positive and false negative errors found in the top and bottom 20 ranked pairs,respectively, for the syntactic and lexical fixedness measures are given in Table 4.
(Notethat fp errors are the non-idiomatic pairs ranked at the top, whereas fn errors are theidiomatic pairs ranked at the bottom.
)We first look at the errors made by Fixednesssyn.
The first fp error, throw hat, isan interesting one: even though the pair is not an idiomatic expression on its own,it is part of the larger idiomatic phrase throw one?s hat in the ring, and hence exhibitssyntactic fixedness.
This shows that our methods can be easily extended to identifyother types of verb phrase idiomatic combinations which exhibit syntactic behaviorsimilar to VNICs.
Looking at the frequency distribution of the occurrence of the othertwo fp errors, touch finger and lose home, in the 11 patterns from Table 1, we observe thatboth pairs tend to appear mainly in the patterns ?vact det:POSS nsg?
(touch one?s finger,lose one?s home) and/or ?vact det:POSS npl?
(touch one?s fingers).
These examples show79Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1Table 4Errors found in the top and bottom 20 pairs in the lists ranked by the two individual fixednessmeasures; fp stands for false positive, fn stands for false negative.Measure: Fixednesssyn FixednesslexError Type: fp fn fp fnthrow hat make pile push barrow have momenttouch finger keep secret blow bridge give waylose home keep handthat syntactic fixedness is not a sufficient condition for idiomaticity.
In other words,it is possible for non-idiomatic expressions to be syntactically fixed for reasons otherthan semantic idiosyncrasy.
In these examples, the nouns finger and home tend to beintroduced by a possessive determiner, because they often belong to someone.
It is alsoimportant to note that these two patterns have a low prior (i.e., verb?noun pairs donot typically appear in these patterns).
Hence, an expression with a strong tendency toappear in such patterns will be given a high syntactic fixedness score.The frequency distribution of the two fn errors for Fixednesssyn reveals that they aregiven low scores mainly because their distributions are similar to the prior.
Even thoughmake pile preferably appears in the two patterns ?vact det:a/an nsg?
and ?vact det:NULLnpl,?
both patterns have reasonably high prior probabilities.
Moreover, because of thelow frequency of make pile (< 40), the evidence is not sufficient to distinguish it from atypical verb?noun pair.
The pair keep secret has a high frequency, but its occurrences arescattered across all 11 patterns, closely matching the prior distribution.
The latter exam-ple shows that syntactic fixedness is not a necessary condition for idiomaticity either.15Analyzing the errors made by Fixednesslex is more difficult as many factors mayaffect scores given by this measure.
Most important is the quality of the automaticallygenerated variants.
We find that in one case, push barrow, the first 25 distributionallysimilar nouns (taken from the automatically built thesaurus) are proper nouns, perhapsbecause Barrow is a common last name.
In general, it seems that the similar verbs andnouns for a target verb?noun pair are not necessarily related to the same sense of thetarget word.
Another possible source of error is that in this measure we use PMI as anindirect clue to idiomaticity.
In the case of give way and keep hand, many of the variantsare plausible combinations with very high frequency of occurrence, for example, giveopportunity, give order, find way for the former, and hold hand, put hand, keep eye for thelatter.
Whereas some of these high-frequency variants are literal (e.g., hold hand) oridiomatic (e.g., keep eye), many have metaphorical interpretations (e.g., give opportunity,find way).
In our ongoing work, we use lexical and syntactic fixedness measures, in com-bination with other linguistically motivated features, to distinguish such metaphori-cal combinations from both literal and idiomatic expressions (Fazly and Stevenson,to appear).One way to decrease the likelihood of making any of these errors is to combineevidence from the lexical and syntactic fixedness of idioms.
As can be seen in Table 4, thetwo fixedness measures make different errors, and combining them results in a measure15 One might argue that keep secret is more semantically analyzable and hence less idiomatic than anexpression such as shoot the breeze.
Nonetheless, it is still semantically more idiosyncratic than a fullyliteral combination such as keep a pen, and hence should not be ranked at the very bottom of the list.80Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom Identification(the overall fixedness) that makes fewer errors.
In the future, we intend to also look intoother properties of idioms, such as their semantic non-compositionality, as extra sourcesof information.5.
Determining the Canonical Forms of VNICsOur evaluation of the fixedness measures demonstrates their usefulness for the au-tomatic recognition of VNICs.
Recall from Section 2 that idioms appear in restrictedsyntactic forms, often referred to as their canonical forms (Glucksberg 1993; Riehemann2001; Grant 2005).
For example, the idiom pull one?s weight mainly appears in this form(when used idiomatically).
The lexical representation of an idiomatic combination thusmust contain information about its canonical forms.
Such information is necessary bothfor automatically generating appropriate forms (e.g., in a natural language generationsystem or a machine translation system), and for inclusion in dictionaries for learners(e.g., in the context of computational lexicography).Because VNICs are syntactically fixed, they are mostly expected to have a smallnumber of canonical forms.
For example, shoot the breeze is listed in many idiom dictio-naries as the canonical form for ?shoot, breeze?.
Also, hold fire and hold one?s fire are listedin CCID as canonical forms for ?hold, fire?.
We expect a VNIC to occur in its canonicalform(s) with substantially higher frequency than in any other syntactic patterns.
Wethus devise an unsupervised method that discovers the canonical form(s) of a givenidiomatic verb?noun pair by examining its frequency of occurrence in each syntacticpattern under consideration.
Specifically, the set of the canonical form(s) of the targetpair ?v, n?
is defined asC(v, n) = {ptk ?
P | z(v, n, ptk) > Tz} (7)Here, P is the set of patterns (see Table 1), and the condition z(v, n, ptk) > Tz determineswhether the frequency of the target pair ?v,n?
in ptk is substantially higher than itsfrequency in other patterns; z(v, n, ptk) is calculated using the statistic z-score as inEquation (8), and Tz is a predefined threshold.z(v, n, ptk) =f (v, n, ptk)?
fs (8)where f is the sample mean and s the sample standard deviation.The statistic z(v, n, ptk) indicates how far and in which direction the frequency ofoccurrence of the target pair ?v, n?
in a particular pattern ptk deviates from the samplemean, expressed in units of the sample standard deviation.
To decide whether ptk is acanonical pattern for the target pair, we check whether its z-score, z(v, n, ptk), is greaterthan a threshold Tz.
Here, we set Tz to 1, based on the distribution of z and throughexamining the development data.We evaluate our unsupervised canonical form identification method by verifyingits predicted forms against ODCIE and CCID.
Specifically, for each of the 100 idiomaticpairs in TESTall, we calculate the precision and recall of its predicted canonical forms(those whose z-scores are above Tz), compared to the canonical forms listed in the twodictionaries.
The average precision across the 100 test pairs is 81.2%, and the averagerecall is 88% (with 68 of the pairs having 100% precision and 100% recall).
Moreover, we81Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1find that for the overwhelming majority of the pairs, 86%, the predicted canonical formwith the highest z-score appears in the dictionary entry of the pair.According to the entries in ODCIE and CCID, 93 out of the 100 idiomatic pairs inTESTall have one canonical form.
Our canonical form extractionmethod on average finds1.2 canonical forms for these 100 pairs (one canonical form for 79 of them, two for 18,and three for 3 of these).
Generally, our method tends to extract more canonical formsthan listed in the dictionaries.
This is a desired property, because idiom dictionariesoften do not exhaustively list all canonical forms, but themost dominant ones.
Examplesof such cases include: see the sights for which our method also finds see sights as a canon-ical form, and catch one?s attention for which our method also finds catch the attention.There are also cases where our method finds canonical forms for a given expression dueto noise resulting from the use of the expression in a non-idiomatic sense.
For example,for hold one?s horses, our method also finds hold the horse and hold the horses as canonicalforms.
Similarly, for get the bird, our method also finds get a bird.In a few cases (4 out of 100), our method finds fewer canonical forms than listedin the dictionaries.
These are catch the/one?s imagination, have a/one?s fling, make a/one?smark, and have a/the nerve.
For the first two of these, the z-score of the missed patternis only slightly lower than our predefined threshold.
In other cases (8 out of 100), noneof the canonical forms extracted by our method match those in a dictionary.
Some ofthese expressions also have a non-idiomatic sense which might be more dominant thanthe idiomatic usage.
For example, for give the push and give the flick, our method findsgive a push and give a flick, respectively, perhaps due to the common use of the latterforms as light verb constructions.
Formake one?s peace, our method finds a different form,make peace, which seems a plausible canonical form; and moreover, the canonical formlisted in the dictionaries (make one?s peace) has a z-score which is only slightly lowerthan our threshold.
There is also one case where our method finds a canonical formthat corresponds to a different idiom using the same verb+noun: we find lose touch asa canonical form, whereas the dictionaries list an idiom with a different canonical form(lose one?s touch) as the idiom with lose and touch.In general, canonical forms extracted by our method are reasonably accurate, butmay need to be further analyzed by a lexicographer to filter out incorrectly foundpatterns.
Moreover, our method extracts new canonical forms for some expressions,which could be used to augment dictionaries.6.
Automatic Identification of VNIC TokensIn previous sections, we have provided an analysis of the lexical and syntactic behaviorof idiomatic expressions.
We have shown that our proposed techniques that draw onsuch properties can successfully distinguish an idiomatic verb+noun combination (aVNIC type) such as get the sack from a non-idiomatic (literal) one such as get the bag.
It isimportant, however, to note that a potentially idiomatic expression such as get the sackcan also have a literal interpretation in a given context, as in Joe got the sack from the topshelf .
This is true of many potential idioms, although the relative proportion of literalusages may differ from one expression to another.
For example, an expression such assee stars is much more likely to have a literal interpretation than get the sack (according toour findings in the BNC).
Identification of idiomatic tokens in context is thus necessaryfor a full understanding of text, and this will be the focus of Sections 6 and 7.Recent studies addressing token identification for idiomatic expressions mainlyperform the task as one of word sense disambiguation, and draw on the local context of82Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom Identificationa token to disambiguate it.
Such techniques either do not use any information regardingthe linguistic properties of idioms (Birke and Sarkar 2006), or mainly focus on theproperty of non-compositionality (Katz and Giesbrecht 2006).
Studies that do makeuse of deep linguistic information often handcode the knowledge into the systems(Uchiyama, Baldwin, and Ishizaki 2005; Hashimoto, Sato, and Utsuro 2006).
Our goal isto develop techniques that draw on the specific linguistic properties of idioms for theiridentification, without the need for handcoded knowledge or manually labelled train-ing data.
Such unsupervised techniques can also help provide automatically labelled(noisy) training data to bootstrap (semi-)supervised methods.In Sections 3 and 4, we showed that the lexical and syntactic fixedness of idiomsis especially relevant to their type-based recognition.
We expect such properties to alsobe relevant for their token identification.
Moreover, we have shown that it is possible tolearn about the fixedness of idioms in an unsupervised manner.
Here, we propose unsu-pervised techniques that draw on the syntactic fixedness of idioms to classify individualtokens of a potentially idiomatic phrase as literal or idiomatic.
We also put forward aclassification technique that combines such information (in the form of noisy trainingdata) with evidence from the local context of usages of an expression.
In Section 6.1,we elaborate on the underlying assumptions of our token identification techniques.Section 6.2 then describes our proposed methods that draw on these assumptions toperform the task.6.1 Underlying AssumptionsAlthough there may be fine-grained differences in meaning across the idiomatic us-ages of an expression, as well as across its literal usages, we assume that the idiomaticand literal usages correspond to two coarse-grained senses of the expression.
We willrefer then to each of the literal and idiomatic designations as a (coarse-grained) mean-ing of the expression, while acknowledging that each may have multiple fine-grainedsenses.Recall from Section 2 that idioms tend to be somewhat fixed with respect to thesyntactic configurations in which they occur.
For example, pull one?s weight tends tomainly appear in this form when used idiomatically.
Other forms of the expression,such as pull the weights, typically are only used with a literal meaning.
In other words,an idiom tends to have one (or a small number of) canonical form(s), which are its mostpreferred syntactic patterns.16 Here we assume that, in most cases, idiomatic usages ofan expression tend to occur in its canonical form(s).
We also assume that, in contrast,the literal usages of an expression are less syntactically restricted, and are expressedin a greater variety of patterns.
Because of their relative unrestrictedness, literal usagesmay occur in a canonical form for that expression, but usages in a canonical form aremore likely to be idiomatic.
Usages in alternative syntactic patterns for the expression,which we refer to as the non-canonical forms of the expression, are more likely to beliteral.Drawing on these assumptions, we develop unsupervised methods that deter-mine, for each verb+noun token in context, whether it has an idiomatic or a literal16 As noted previously, 93 out of the 100 idiomatic pairs in TESTall have one canonical form, according to theentries in ODCIE and CCID.
Also, our canonical form extraction method on average finds 1.2 canonicalforms for the 100 test idioms.83Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1interpretation.
Clearly, the success of our methods depends on the extent to which theseassumptions hold (we will return to these assumptions in Section 7.2.3).6.2 Proposed MethodsThis section elaborates on our proposed methods for identifying the idiomatic andliteral usages of a verb+noun combination: the CFORM method that uses knowledgeof canonical forms only, and the CONTEXT method that also incorporates distributionalevidence about the local context of a token.
Both methods draw on our assumptionsdescribed herein, that usages in the canonical form(s) for a potential idiom are morelikely to be idiomatic, and those in other forms are more likely to be literal.
Becauseour methods need information about canonical forms of an expression, we use theunsupervisedmethod described in Section 5 to find these automatically.
In the followingdiscussion, we describe each method in more detail.CFORM.
This method classifies an instance (token) of an expression as idiomatic if itoccurs in one of the automatically determined canonical form(s) for that expression(e.g., pull one?s weight), and as literal otherwise (e.g., pull a weight, pull the weights).
Theunderlying assumption of this method is that information about the canonical form(s) ofan idiom type can provide a reasonably accurate classification of its individual instancesas literal or idiomatic.CONTEXT.
Recall our assumption that the idiomatic and literal usages of an idiom corre-spond to two coarse-grained meanings of the expression.
It is natural to further assumethat the literal and idiomatic usages have more in common semantically within eachgroup than between the two groups.
Adopting a distributional approach to meaning?where the meaning of an expression is approximated by the words with which it co-occurs (Firth 1957)?we would expect the literal and idiomatic usages of an expressionto typically occur with different sets of words.Indeed, in a supervised setting, Katz and Giesbrecht (2006) show that the localcontext of an idiom usage is useful in identifying its sense.
Inspired by this work, wepropose an unsupervisedmethod that incorporates distributional information about thelocal context of the usages of an idiom, in addition to the (syntactic) knowledge aboutits canonical forms, in order to determine if its token usages are literal or idiomatic.To achieve this, the method compares the context surrounding a test instance of anexpression to ?gold-standard?
contexts for the idiomatic and literal usages of the expres-sion, which are taken from noisy training data automatically labelled using canonicalforms.17For each test instance of an expression, the CONTEXT method thus compares itsco-occurring words to two sets of gold-standard co-occurring words: one typical ofidiomatic usages and one typical of literal usages of the expression (we will shortlyexplain precisely how we find these).
If the test token is determined to be (on aver-age) more similar to the idiomatic usages, then it is labelled as idiomatic.
Other-wise, it is labelled as literal.
To measure similarity between two sets of words, we use17 The two CONTEXT methods in our earlier work (Cook, Fazly, and Stevenson 2007) were biased becausethey used information about the canonical form of a test token (in addition to context information).We found that when the bias was removed, the similarity measure used in those techniques was notas effective, and hence we have developed a different method here.84Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom Identificationa standard distributional similarity measure, Jaccard, defined subsequently.18 In thefollowing equation A and B represent the two sets of words to be compared:Jaccard(A,B) = A ?
BA ?
B (9)Nowwe explain how the CONTEXT method finds typically co-occurring words for eachof the idiomatic and literal meanings of an expression.
Note that unlike in a supervisedsetting, here we do not assume access to manually annotated training data.
We thus useknowledge of automatically acquired canonical forms to find these.The CONTEXT method labels usages of an expression in a leave-one-out strategy,where each test token is labelled by using the other tokens as noisy training (gold-standard) data.
Specifically, to provide gold-standard data for each instance of anexpression, we first divide the other instances (of the same expression) into likely-idiomatic and likely-literal groups, where the former group contains usages in canonicalform(s) and the latter contains usages in non-canonical form(s).
We then pick represen-tative usages from each group by selecting the K instances that are most similar to theinstance being labelled (the test token) according to the Jaccard similarity score.Recall that we assume canonical form(s) are predictive of the idiomatic usages andnon-canonical form(s) are indicative of the literal usages of an expression.
We thusexpect the co-occurrence sets of the selected canonical and non-canonical instances toreflect the idiomatic and literal meanings of the expression, respectively.
We take theaverage similarity of the test token to the K nearest canonical instances (likely idiomatic)and the K nearest non-canonical instances (likely literal), and label the test token accord-ingly.19 In the event that there are less than K canonical or non-canonical form usagesof an expression, we take the average similarity over however many instances there areof this form.
If we have no instances of one of these forms, we classify each token asidiomatic, the label we expect to be more frequent.7.
VNIC Token Identification: EvaluationTo evaluate the performance of our proposed token identification methods, we useeach in a classification task, in which the method indicates for each instance of a givenexpression whether it has an idiomatic or a literal interpretation.
Section 7.1 explainsthe details of our experimental setup.
Section 7.2 then presents the experimental resultsas well as some discussion and analysis.7.1 Experimental Setup7.1.1 Experimental Expressions and Annotation.
In our token classification experiments,we use a subset of the 180 idiomatic expressions in the development and test data setsused in the type-based experiments of Section 4.
From the original 180 expressions, wediscard those whose frequency in the BNC is lower than 20, to increase the likelihoodthat there are both literal and idiomatic usages of each expression.
We also discard any18 It is possible to incorporate extra knowledge sources, such as WordNet, for measuring similaritybetween two sets of words.
However, our intention is to focus on purely unsupervised, knowledge-leanapproaches.19 We also tried using the average similarity of the test token to all instances in each group.
However,we found that focusing on the most similar instances from each group performs better.85Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1expression that is not from the two dictionaries ODCIE and CCID (see Section 4.1.2for more details on the original data sets).
This process results in the selection of60 candidate verb?noun pairs.For each of the selected pairs, 100 sentences containing its usage were randomly ex-tracted from the automatically parsed BNC, using themethod described in Section 4.1.1.For a pair which occurs less than 100 times in the BNC, all of its usages were extracted.Two judges were asked to independently label each use of each candidate expression asliteral, idiomatic, or unknown.
When annotating a token, the judges had access to onlythe sentence in which it occurred, and not the surrounding sentences.
If this context wasinsufficient to determine the class of the expression, the judge assigned the unknownlabel.
In an effort to assure high agreement between the judges?
annotations, the judgeswere also provided with the dictionary definitions of the idiomatic meanings of theexpressions.Idiomaticity is not a binary property; rather it is known to fall on a continuumfrom completely semantically transparent, or literal, to entirely opaque, or idiomatic.The human annotators were required to pick the label, literal or idiomatic, that best fitthe usage in their judgment; they were not to use the unknown label for intermediatecases.
Figurative extensions of literal meanings were classified as literal if their overallmeaning was judged to be fairly transparent, as in You turn right when we hit the roadat the end of this track (taken from the BNC).
Sometimes an idiomatic usage, such as haveword in At the moment they only had the word of Nicola?s husband for what had happened(also taken from the BNC), is somewhat directly related to its literal meaning, whichis not the case for more semantically opaque idioms such as hit the roof.
This sentencewas classified as idiomatic because the idiomatic meaning is muchmore salient than theliteral meaning.First, our primary judge, a native English speaker and an author of this paper,annotated each use of each candidate expression.
Based on this judge?s annotations, weremoved the 25 expressions with fewer than 5 instances of either of their literal or idi-omatic meanings, leaving 28 expressions.20 (We will revisit the 25 removed expressionsin Section 7.2.4.)
The remaining expressions were then split into development (DEV) andtest (TEST) sets of 14 expressions each.
The data was divided such that DEV and TESTwould be approximately equal with respect to the frequency of their expressions, aswell as their proportion of idiomatic-to-literal usages (according to the primary judge?sannotations).
At this stage, DEV and TEST contained a total of 813 and 743 tokens,respectively.Our second judge, also a native English-speaking author of this paper, then anno-tated DEV and TEST sentences.
The observed agreement and unweighted kappa score(Cohen 1960) on TEST were 76% and 0.62, respectively.
The judges discussed tokens onwhich they disagreed to achieve a consensus annotation.
Final annotations were gener-ated by removing tokens that received the unknown label as the consensus annotation,leaving DEV and TEST with a total of 573 and 607 tokens, and an average of 41 and 43 to-kens per expression, respectively.
Table 5 shows the DEV and the TEST verb?noun pairsused in our experiments.
The table also contains information on the number of tokensconsidered for each pair, as well as the percentage of its usages which are idiomatic.20 From the original set of 60 expressions, seven were excluded because our primary annotator did notprovide any annotations for them.
These include catch one?s breath, cut one?s losses, and push one?s luck (forwhich our annotator did not have access to a literal interpretation); and blow one?s (own) horn, pull one?shair, give a lift, and get the bird (for which our annotator did not have access to an idiomatic meaning).86Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom IdentificationTable 5Experimental DEV and TEST verb?noun pairs, their token frequency (FRQ), and the percentage oftheir usages that are idiomatic (%IDM), ordered in decreasing %IDM.DEV TESTverb?noun FRQ %IDM verb?noun FRQ %IDMfind foot 52 90 have word 89 90make face 30 90 lose thread 20 90get nod 26 89 get sack 50 86pull weight 33 82 make mark 85 85kick heel 38 79 cut figure 43 84hit road 31 77 pull punch 22 82take heart 79 73 blow top 28 82pull plug 65 69 make scene 48 58blow trumpet 29 66 make hay 17 53hit roof 17 65 get wind 29 45lose head 38 55 make hit 14 36make pile 25 32 blow whistle 78 35pull leg 51 22 hold fire 23 30see star 61 8 hit wall 61 117.1.2 Baselines, Parameters, and Performance Measures.
We compare the performance ofour proposed methods, CFORM and CONTEXT, with the baseline of always predictingan idiomatic interpretation, the most frequent meaning in our development data.
Wealso compare the unsupervised methods against a supervised method, SUP, which issimilar to CONTEXT, except that it forms the idiomatic and literal co-occurrence setsfrom manually annotated data (instead of automatically labelled data using canonicalforms).
Like CONTEXT, SUP also classifies tokens in a leave-one-out methodology usingthe K idiomatic and literal instances which are most similar to a test token.
For bothCONTEXT and SUP, we set the value of K (the number of similar instances used asgold-standard) to 5, since experiments on DEV indicated that performance did not varysubstantially using a range of values of K.For all methods, we report the accuracy macro-averaged over all expressions inTEST.
We use the individual accuracies (accuracies for the individual expressions) toperform t-tests for verifying whether different methods have significantly differentperformance.
To further analyze the performance of the methods, we also report theirrecall and precision on identifying usages from each of the idiomatic and literal classes.7.2 Experimental Results and AnalysisWe first discuss the overall performance of our proposed unsupervised methods inSection 7.2.1.
Results reported in Section 7.2.1 are on TEST (results on DEV have similartrends, unless noted otherwise).
Next, we look into the performance of our methodson expressions with different proportions of idiomatic-to-literal usages in Section 7.2.2,which presents results on TEST and DEV combined, as explained subsequently.
Sec-tion 7.2.3 provides an analysis of the errors made because of using canonical forms, andidentifies some possible directions for future work.
In Section 7.2.4, we present resultson a new data set containing expressions with highly skewed proportion of idiomatic-to-literal usages.87Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1Table 6Macro-averaged accuracy (%Acc) and relative error rate reduction (%ERR) on TEST expressions.Method %Acc (%ERR)Baseline 61.9Unsupervised CONTEXT 65.8 (10.2)CFORM 72.4 (27.6)Supervised SUP 82.7 (54.6)7.2.1 Overall Performance.
Table 6 shows the macro-averaged accuracy on TEST of ourtwo unsupervised methods, as well as that of the baseline and the supervised methodfor comparison.
The best unsupervised performance is indicated in boldface.As the table shows, both of our unsupervised methods as well as the supervisedmethod outperform the baseline, confirming that the canonical forms of an expression,and local context, are both informative in distinguishing literal and idiomatic instancesof the expression.21 Moreover, CFORM outperforms CONTEXT (difference is marginallysignificant at p < .06), which is somewhat unexpected, as CONTEXT was proposedas an improvement over CFORM in that it combines contextual information alongwith the syntactic information provided by CFORM.
We return to these results later(Section 7.2.3) to offer some reasons as to why this might be the case.
However, theresults using CFORM confirm our hypothesis that canonical forms?which reflect theoverall behavior of a verb+noun type?are strongly informative about the class of atoken.
Importantly, this is the case even though the canonical forms that we use areimperfect knowledge obtained automatically through an unsupervised method.Comparing CFORM with SUP, we observe that even though on average the latteroutperforms the former, the difference is not statistically significant (p > .1).
A closelook at the performance of these methods on the individual expressions reveals thatneither consistently outperforms the other on all (or even most) expressions.
Moreover,as we will see in Section 7.2.2, SUP seems to gain most of its advantage over CFORM onexpressions with a low proportion of idiomatic usages, for which canonical forms tendto have less predictive value (see Section 7.2.3 for details).Recall that both CONTEXT and SUP label each token by comparing its local contextto those of its K nearest ?idiomatic?
and its K nearest ?literal?
usages.
The difference isthat CONTEXT uses noisy (automatically) labelled data to identify these nearest usagesfor each token, whereas SUP uses manually labelled data.
One possible direction for fu-ture work is thus to investigate whether providing substantially larger amounts of dataalleviates the effect of noise, as is often found to be the case by researchers in the field.7.2.2 Performance Based on Class Distribution.
Recall from Section 6 that both of our un-supervised techniques for token identification depend on how accurately the canonicalforms of an expression can be acquired.
The canonical form acquisition technique whichwe use here works well if the idiomatic meaning of an expression is sufficiently frequentcompared to its literal usage.
In this section, we thus examine the performance of the21 Performing a paired t-test, we find that the difference between the baseline and CFORM is marginallysignificant, p < .06, whereas the difference between baseline and CONTEXT is not statistically significant.The difference between the baseline and SUP is significant at p < .01.
The trend on DEV is somewhatsimilar: baseline and CFORM are significantly different at p < .05; SUP is marginally different frombaseline at p < .06.88Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom IdentificationTable 7Macro-averaged accuracy (%Acc) and relative error rate reduction (%ERR) on the 28 expressionsin DT (DEV and TEST combined), divided according to the proportion of idiomatic-to-literalusages (high and low).DTIhigh DTIlowMethod %Acc (%ERR) %Acc (%ERR)Baseline 81.4 35.0Unsupervised CONTEXT 80.6 (?4.3) 44.6 (14.8)CFORM 84.7 (17.7) 53.4 (28.3)Supervised SUP 84.4 (16.1) 76.8 (64.3)token identification methods for expressions with different proportions of idiomatic-to-literal usages.We merge DEV and TEST (referring to the new set as DT), and then divide the re-sulting set of 28 expressions according to their proportion of idiomatic-to-literal usages(as determined by the human annotations) as follows.22 Looking at the proportion ofidiomatic usages of our expressions in Table 5, we can see that there are gaps between55% and 65% in DEV, and between 58% and 82% in TEST, in terms of proportionof idiomatic usages.
The value of 65% thus serves as a natural lower bound for dominantidiomatic usage, and the value of 58% as a natural upper bound for non-dominantidiomatic usage.
We therefore split DT into two sets: DTIhigh contains 17 expressions with65?90% of their usages being idiomatic (i.e., their idiomatic usage is dominant), whereasDTIlow contains 11 expressions with 8?58% of their occurrences being idiomatic (i.e., theiridiomatic usage is not dominant).Table 7 shows the average accuracy of all the methods on these two groups ofexpressions, with the best performance on each group shown in boldface.
We first lookat the performance of our methods on DTIhigh .
On these expressions, CFORM outperformsboth the baseline (difference is not statistically significant) and CONTEXT (difference isstatistically significant at p < .05).
CFORM also has a comparable performance to the su-pervised method, reinforcing that for these expressions accurate canonical forms can beacquired and that such knowledge can be used with high confidence for distinguishingidiomatic and literal usages in context.We now look into the performance on expressions in DTIlow .
On these, both CFORMand CONTEXT outperform the baseline, showing that even for expressions whose idi-omatic meaning is not dominant, automatically acquired canonical forms can help withtheir token classification.
Nonetheless, both these methods perform substantially worsethan the supervised method, reinforcing that the automatically acquired canonicalforms are noisier, and hence less predictive, than they are for expressions in DTIhigh .The poor performance of the unsupervised methods on expressions in DTIlow (com-pared to the supervised performance) is likely to be mostly due to the less predictivecanonical forms extracted for these expressions.
In general, we can conclude that whencanonical forms can be extracted with a high accuracy, the performance of the CFORMmethod is comparable to that of a supervised method.
One possible way of improvingthe performance of unsupervised methods is thus to develop more accurate techniquesfor the automatic acquisition of canonical forms.22 We combine the two sets in order to have a sufficient number of expressions in each group after division.89Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1Table 8Confusion matrix for CFORM on expression blow trumpet.
idm = idiomatic class; lit = literal class;tp = true positive; fp = false positive; fn = false negative; tn = true negative.True Classidm litPredicted idm 17 = tp 6 = fpClass lit 2 = fn 4 = tnTable 9Formulas for calculating Sens and PPV (recall and precision for the idiomatic class), and Specand NPV (recall and precision for the literal class) from a confusion matrix.recall (R) precision (P)idm Sens =tptp+ fnPPV =tptp+ fplit Spec = tntn+ fpNPV = tntn+ fnAccuracy is often not a sufficient measure for the evaluation of a binary (two-class)classifier, especially when the number of items in the two classes (here, idiomatic andliteral) differ.
Instead, one can have a closer look at the performance of a classifier byexamining its confusion matrix, which compares the labels predicted by the classifierfor each item with its true label.
As an example, the confusion matrix of the CFORMmethod for the expression blow trumpet is given in Table 8.Note that the choice of idiomatic as the positive class (and literal as the negativeclass) is arbitrary; however, because our ultimate goal is to identify idiomatic usages,there is a natural reason for this choice.
To summarize a confusion matrix, four standardmeasures are often used, which are calculated from the cells in the matrix.
The measuresare sensitivity (Sens), positive predictive value (PPV), specificity (Spec), and negativepredictive value (NPV), and are calculated as in Table 9.
As stated in the table, Sensand PPV are equivalents of recall and precision for the positive (idiomatic) class, alsoreferred to as Ridm and Pidm later in the article.
Similarly, Spec and NPV are equivalentsof recall and precision for the negative (literal) class, also referred to as Rlit and Plit.23Table 10 gives the trimmed mean values of these four performance measures overexpressions in DTIhigh and DTIlow for the baseline, the two unsupervised methods, and thesupervised method.24 (The performance measures on individual expressions are givenin Tables 12, 13, and 14 in the Appendix.)
Table 10 shows that, as expected, the baselinehas very high Sens (100% recall on identifying idiomatic usages), but very low Spec (0%23 We mainly refer to these measures using their standard names in the literature: Sens, PPV, Spec, andNPV.
Alongside the standard names, we use the more expressive names Ridm, Pidm, Rlit, and Plit, toremind the reader about the semantics of the measures.24 When averaging interdependent measures, such as precision and recall, one needs to make sure thatthe observed trend in the averages is consistent with that in the individual values.
Trimmed mean is astandard statistic used in such cases, which is equivalent to the mean after discarding a percentage (oftenbetween 5 and 25) of the sample data at the high and low ends.
Here, we report a 14%-trimmed mean,which involves removing two data points from each end.
The analysis presented here is based on thetrimmed means, as well as the individual values of the performance measures.90Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom IdentificationTable 10Detailed classification performance of all methods over DTIhigh and DTIlow .
Performance is givenusing four measures: Sens or Ridm, PPV or Pidm, Spec or Rlit, and NPV or Plit, macro-averagedusing 14%-trimmed mean.Data Set Method Sens (Ridm) PPV (Pidm) Spec (Rlit) NPV (Plit)Baseline 1.00 .82 0.00 0.00DTIhigh CONTEXT .97 .84 .11 .18CFORM .95 .92 .61 .71SUP .99 .86 .22 .53Data Set Method Sens (Ridm) PPV (Pidm) Spec (Rlit) NPV (Plit)Baseline 1.00 .36 0.00 0.00DTIlow CONTEXT .89 .37 .22 .63CFORM .86 .43 .36 .86SUP .44 .62 .88 .80recall on identifying literal usages).
We thus expect a well-performing method to havelower Sens than the baseline, but higher Spec and also higher PPV and NPV (i.e., higherprecision on both idiomatic and literal usages).Looking at performance on DTIhigh , we find that all three methods have reasonablyhigh Sens and PPV, revealing that the methods are good at labeling idiomatic usages.Performance on literal usages, however, differs across the three methods.
CONTEXT hasvery low Spec andNPV, showing that it tends to label most tokens?including the literalones?as idiomatic.
A close look at the performance of this method on the individualexpressions also confirms this tendency: on many expressions (10 out of 17) the Specand NPV of CONTEXT are both zero (see Table 13 in the Appendix).
As we will see inSection 7.2.3, this tendency is partly due to the distribution of the idiomatic and literalusages in canonical and non-canonical forms; because literal usages can also appear ina canonical form, for many expressions there are often not many non-canonical forminstances.
(Recall that, for training, CONTEXT uses instances in canonical form as beingidiomatic and those in non-canonical form as being literal.)
Thus, in many cases, itis a priori more likely that a token is more similar to the K most similar canonicalform instances.
Interestingly, CFORM is the method with the highest Spec and NPV,even higher than those of the supervised method.
Nonetheless, even CFORM is overallmuch better at identifying idiomatic tokens than literal ones (see Section 7.2.3 for morediscussion on this).We now turn to performance on DTIlow .
CFORM has a high Sens, but a low PPV,indicating that most idiomatic usages are identified correctly, but many literal usagesare also misclassified as idiomatic (hence a low Spec).
CONTEXT shows the same trendas CFORM, though overall it has poorer performance.
Performance of SUP varies acrossthe expressions in this group: SUP is very good at identifying literal usages of theseexpressions (high Spec and NPV for all expressions).
Nonetheless, SUP has a low recallin identifying idiomatic usages (low Sens) for many of these expressions.7.2.3 Discussion and Error Analysis.
In this section, we examine twomain issues.
First, welook into the plausibility of our original assumptions regarding the predictive value ofcanonical forms (and non-canonical forms).
Second, we investigate the appropriatenessof our automatically extracted canonical forms.91Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1To learn more about the predictive value of canonical forms, we examine the per-formance of CFORM on the 28 expressions under study.
More specifically, we look atthe values of Sens, PPV, Spec, and NPV on these expressions, as shown in Table 12in the Appendix.
On expressions in DTIhigh , CFORM has both high Sens and high PPV.The formulas in Table 9 indicate that if both Sens and PPV are high, then tp fn andtp fp.
Thus, most idiomatic usages of expressions in DTIhigh appear in a canonical form,and most usages in a canonical form are idiomatic.
The values of Spec and NPV on thesame expressions are in general lower (compared to Sens and PPV), showing that tn isnot much higher than fp or fn.On expressions in DTIlow , CFORM generally has high Sens but low-to-medium PPV.This indicates that for these expressions, most idiomatic usages appear in a canonicalform, but not all usages in a canonical form are idiomatic.
On these expressions, CFORMhas generally high NPV, but mostly low Spec.
These indicate that tn fn, that is, mostusages in a non-canonical form are literal, and that tn is often lower than fp, that is, manyliteral usages also appear in a canonical form.
For example, almost all usages of hit wallin a non-canonical form are literal, but most of its literal usages appear in a canonicalform.Generally, it seems that, as we expected, literal usages are less restricted in termsof the syntactic form they appear in; they can appear in both canonical form(s) andin non-canonical form(s).
For an expression with a low proportion of literal usages,we can thus acquire canonical forms that are both accurate and have high predictivevalue for identifying idiomatic usages in context.
On the contrary, for expressionswith a relatively high proportion of literal usages, automatically acquired canonicalforms are less accurate and also have low predictive value (i.e., they are not specificto idiomatic usages).
We expected that using contextual information would help insuch cases.
However, our CONTEXT method relies on noisy training data automaticallylabelled using information about canonical forms.
Given these findings, it is not sur-prising that this method performs substantially worse than a corresponding supervisedmethod that uses similar contextual information, but manually labelled training data.
Itremains to be tested in the future whether providing more noisy data will help.
Anotherpossible future direction is to develop context methods that can better exploit noisylabelled data.Now we look at a few cases where our automatically extracted canonical forms arenot sufficiently accurate.
For a verb+noun such as make pile (i.e., make a pile of money),we correctly identify only some of the canonical forms.
The automatically determinedcanonical forms for make pile are make a pile and make piles.
However, we find that idi-omatic usages of this expression are sometimes of the formmake one?s pile.
Furthermore,we find that the frequency of this form is much higher than that of the non-canonicalforms, and not substantially lower than the frequency cut-off for selection as a canonicalform.
This indicates that our heuristic for selecting patterns as canonical forms could befine-tuned to yield an improvement in performance.For the expression pull plug, we identify its canonical form as pull the plug, but find amixture of literal and idiomatic usages in this form.
However, many of the literal usagesare verb-particle constructions using out (pull the plug out), while many of the idiomaticusages occur with a prepositional phrase headed by on (pull the plug on).
This indi-cates that incorporating information about particles and prepositions could improvethe quality of the canonical forms.
Other syntactic categories, such as adjectives, mayalso be informative in determining canonical forms for expressions which are typicallyused idiomatically with words of a particular syntactic category, as in blow one?s owntrumpet.92Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom IdentificationTable 11Macro-averaged accuracy (%Acc) and relative error rate reduction (%ERR) on the 23 expressionsin SKEWED-IDM and on the 37 expressions in the combination of TEST and SKEWED-IDM (ALL).SKEWED-IDM ALLMethod %Acc (%ERR) %Acc (%ERR)Baseline 97.9 84.3Unsupervised CONTEXT 94.2 (?176.2) 83.3 (?6.4)CFORM 86.7 (?533.3) 81.3 (?19.1)Supervised SUP 97.9 (0.0) 92.1 (49.7)7.2.4 Performance on Expressions with Skewed Distribution.
Recall from Section 7.1.1 that,from the original set of 60 candidate expressions, we excluded those that had fewer than5 instances of either of their literal or idiomatic meanings.
It is nonetheless important tosee how well our methods perform on such expressions.
In this section, we thus reportthe performance of our measures on the set of 23 expressions with mostly idiomaticusages, referred to as SKEWED-IDM.
Table 11 presents the macro-averaged accuracy ofour methods on these expressions.
This table also shows the accuracy on all unseen testexpressions, that is, the combination of SKEWED-IDM and TEST, referred to as ALL, forcomparison.25On SKEWED-IDM, the supervised method performs as well as the baseline, whereasboth unsupervised methods perform worse.26 Note that for 19 out of the 23 expressionsin SKEWED-IDM, all instances are idiomatic, and the baseline accuracy is thus 100%.
Onthese, SUP also has 100% accuracy because no literal instances are available, and thusSUP labels every token as idiomatic (same as the baseline).
As for the unsupervisedmethods, we can see that, unlike on TEST, the CONTEXT method outperforms CFORM(the difference is statistically significant at p < .001).
We saw previously that CONTEXTtends to label usages as idiomatic.
This bias might be partially responsible for thebetter performance of CONTEXT on this data set.
Moreover, we find that many of theseexpressions tend to appear in a highly frequent canonical form, but also in less frequentsyntactic forms which we (perhaps incorrectly) consider as non-canonical forms.
Whenconsidering the performance on all unseen test expressions (ALL), neither unsupervisedmethod performs as well as the baseline, but the supervised method offers a substantialimprovement over the baseline.27Our annotators pointed out that for many of the expressions in SKEWED-IDM,either a literal interpretation was almost impossible (as for catch one?s imagination),or extremely implausible (as for kick the habit).
Hence, the annotators could predictbeforehand that the expression would be mainly used with an idiomatic meaning.
Asemi-supervised approach that combines expert human knowledge with automaticallyextracted corpus-drawn information can thus be beneficial for the task of identifying25 The results obtained on the two excluded expressions which are predominantly used literally in termsof percent accuracy using the various methods are as follows.
Baseline: 4.2, Unsupervised CONTEXT: 6.5,Unsupervised CFORM: 16.2, Supervised: 43.5.
However, because there are only two such expressions,it is difficult to draw conclusions from these results, and we do not further consider these expressions.26 According to a paired t-test, on SKEWED-IDM, all the observed differences are statistically significant atp < .05.27 According to a paired t-test, on ALL, the differences between the supervised method and the three othermethods are statistically significant at p < .01; none of the other differences are statistically significant.93Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1idiomatic expressions in context.
A human expert (e.g., a lexicographer) could firstfilter out expressions for which a literal interpretation is highly unlikely.
For the restof the expressions, a simple unsupervised method such as CFORM?that relies only onautomatically extracted information?can be used with reasonable accuracy.8.
Related Work8.1 Type-Based Recognition of Idioms and Other Multiword ExpressionsOur work relates to previous studies on determining the compositionality (the inverseof idiomaticity) of idioms and other multiword expressions (MWEs).
Most previouswork on the compositionality of MWEs either treats them as collocations (Smadja 1993),or examines the distributional similarity between the expression and its constituents(Baldwin et al 2003; Bannard, Baldwin, and Lascarides 2003; McCarthy, Keller, andCarroll 2003).
Others have identified MWEs by looking into specific linguistic cues,such as the lexical fixedness of non-compositional MWEs (Lin 1999; Wermter and Hahn2005), or the lexical flexibility of productive noun compounds (Lapata and Lascarides2003).
Venkatapathy and Joshi (2005) combine aspects of this work, by incorporatinglexical fixedness, distributional similarity, and collocation-based measures into aset of features which are used to rank verb+noun combinations according to theircompositionality.
Our work differs from such studies in that it considers various kindsof fixedness as surface behaviors that are tightly related to the underlying semanticidiosyncrasy (idiomaticity) of expressions.
Accordingly, we propose novel methodsfor measuring the degree of lexical, syntactic, and overall fixedness of verb+nouncombinations, and use these as indirect ways of measuring degree of idiomaticity.Earlier research on the lexical encoding of idiom types mainly relied on the exis-tence of human annotations, especially for detecting which syntactic variations (e.g.,passivization) an idiom can undergo (Odijk 2004; Villavicencio et al 2004).
Evert, Heid,and Spranger (2004) and Ritz and Heid (2006) propose methods for automaticallydetermining morphosyntactic preferences of idiomatic expressions.
However, they treatindividual morphosyntactic markers (e.g., the number of the noun in a verb+nouncombination) as independent features, and rely mainly on the relative frequency ofeach possible value for a feature (e.g., plural for number) as an indicator of a preferencefor that value.
If the relative frequency of a particular value of a feature for a givencombination (or the lower bound of the confidence interval, in the case of Evert, Heid,and Spranger?s approach) is higher than a certain threshold, then the expression issaid to have a preference for that value.
These studies recognize that morphosyntacticpreferences can be employed as clues to the identification of idiomatic combinations;however, none proposes a systematic approach for such a task.
Moreover, only subjec-tive evaluations of the proposed methods are presented.Others have also drawn on the notion of syntactic fixedness for the detectionof idioms and other MWEs.
Widdows and Dorow (2005), for example, look into thefixedness of a highly constrained type of idiom, namely, those of the form ?X conj X?where X is a noun or an adjective, and conj is a conjunction such as and, or, but.
Smadja(1993) also notes the importance of syntactic fixedness in identifying strongly associatedmultiword sequences, including collocations and idioms.
Nonetheless, in both thesestudies, the notion of syntactic fixedness is limited to the relative position of wordswithin the sequence.
Such a general notion of fixedness does not take into account someof the important syntactic properties of idioms (e.g., the choice of the determiner), andhence cannot distinguish among different subtypes of MWEs which may differ on such94Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom Identificationgrounds.
Our syntactic fixedness measure looks into a set of linguistically informedpatterns associated with a coherent, though large, class of idiomatic expressions.
Resultspresented in this article show that the fixedness measures can successfully separateidioms from literal phrases.
Corpus analysis of the measures proves that they can alsobe used to distinguish idioms from other MWEs, such as light verb constructions andcollocations (Fazly and Stevenson 2007; Fazly and Stevenson, to appear).
Bannard (2007)proposes an extension of our syntactic fixedness measure?which first appeared inFazly and Stevenson (2006)?where he uses different prior distributions for differentsyntactic variations.Work on the identification of MWE types has also looked at evidence from anotherlanguage.
For example, Melamed (1997a) assumes that non-compositional compounds(NCCs) are usually not translated word-for-word to another language.
He thus pro-poses to discover NCCs by maximizing the information-theoretic predictive value ofa translation model between two languages.
The sample extracted NCCs reveal animportant drawback of the proposed method: It relies on a translation model only,without taking into account any prior linguistic knowledge about possible NCCswithina language.
Nonetheless, such a technique is capable of identifying many NCCs that arerelevant for a translation task.
Villada Moiro?n and Tiedemann (2006) propose measuresfor distinguishing idiomatic expressions from literal ones (in Dutch), by examiningtheir automatically generated translations into a second language, such as English orSpanish.
Their approach is based on the assumptions that idiomatic expressions tendto have fewer predictable translations and fewer compositional meanings, comparedto the literal ones.
The first property is measured as the diversity in the translationsfor the expression, estimated using an entropy-based measure proposed by Melamed(1997b).
The non-compositionality of an expression is measured as the overlap betweenthe meaning of an expression (i.e., its translations) and those of its component words.General approaches (such as those explained in the previous paragraph) may bemore easily extended to different domains and languages.
Our measures incorporatelanguage-specific information about idiomatic expressions, thus extra work may berequired to extend and apply them to other languages and other expressions.
(Thoughsee Van de Cruys and Villada Moiro?n [2007] for an extension of our measures to Dutchidioms of the form verb plus prepositional phrase.)
Nonetheless, because our measurescapture deep linguistic information, they are also expected to acquire more detailedknowledge?for example, they can be used for identifying other classes of MWEs (Fazlyand Stevenson 2007).8.2 Token-Based Identification of Idioms and Other Multiword ExpressionsA handful of studies have focused on identifying idiomatic and non-idiomatic usages(tokens) of words or MWEs.
Birke and Sarkar (2006) propose a minimally supervisedalgorithm for distinguishing between literal and non-literal usages of verbs in context.Their algorithm uses seed sets of literal and non-literal usages that are automaticallyextracted from online resources such as WordNet.
The similarity between the context ofa target token and that of each seed set determines the class of the token.
The approach isgeneral in that it uses a slightly modified version of an existing word sense disambigua-tion algorithm.
This is both an advantage and a drawback: The algorithm can be easilyextended to other parts of speech and other languages; however, such a general methodignores the specific properties of non-literal (metaphorical and/or idiomatic) language.Similarly, the supervised token classification method of Katz and Giesbrecht (2006)relies primarily on the local context of a token, and fails to exploit specific linguistic95Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1properties of non-literal language.
Our results suggest that such properties are oftenmore informative than the local context, in determining the class of an MWE token.The supervised classifier of Patrick and Fletcher (2005) distinguishes between com-positional and non-compositional usages of English verb-particle constructions.
Theirclassifier incorporates linguistically motivated features, such as the degree of separationbetween the verb and particle.
Here, we focus on a different class of English MWEs,namely, the class of idiomatic verb+noun combinations.
Moreover, by making a moredirect use of their syntactic behavior, we develop unsupervised token classificationmethods that perform well.
The unsupervised token classifier of Hashimoto, Sato, andUtsuro (2006) uses manually encoded information about allowable and non-allowablesyntactic transformations of Japanese idioms, which are roughly equivalent to ournotions of canonical and non-canonical forms.
The rule-based classifier of Uchiyama,Baldwin, and Ishizaki (2005) incorporates syntactic information about Japanese com-pound verbs (JCVs), a type of MWE composed of two verbs.
In both cases, although theclassifiers incorporate syntactic information about MWEs, their manual developmentlimits the scalability of the approaches.Uchiyama, Baldwin, and Ishizaki (2005) also propose a statistical token classifica-tion method for JCVs.
This method is similar to ours, in that it also uses type-basedknowledge to determine the class of each token in context.
However, their method issupervised, whereas our methods are unsupervised.
Moreover, Uchiyama, Baldwin,and Ishizaki only evaluate their methods on a set of JCVs that are mostly monosemous.Our main focus here is on MWEs that are harder to disambiguate, that is, those thathave two clear idiomatic and literal meanings, and that are frequently used with eithermeaning.9.
ConclusionsThe significance of the role idioms play in language has long been recognized; however,due to their peculiar behavior, they have been mostly overlooked by researchers incomputational linguistics.
In this work, we focus on a broadly documented and cross-linguistically frequent class of idiomatic MWEs: those that involve the combinationof a verb and a noun in its direct object position, which we refer to as verb+nounidiomatic combinations or VNICs.
Although a great deal of research has focused onnon-compositionality of MWEs, less attention has been paid to other properties relevantto their semantic idiosyncrasy, such as lexical and syntactic fixedness.
Drawing on suchproperties, we have developed techniques for the automatic recognition of VNIC types,as well as methods for their token identification in context.We propose techniques for the automatic acquisition and encoding of knowledgeabout the lexicosyntactic behavior of idiomatic combinations.
More specifically, wepropose novel statistical measures that quantify the degree of lexical, syntactic, andoverall fixedness of a verb+noun combination.
We demonstrate that these measurescan be successfully applied to the task of automatically distinguishing idiomatic ex-pressions (types) from non-idiomatic ones.
Our results show that the syntactic andoverall fixedness measures substantially outperform existing measures of collocationextraction, even when they incorporate some syntactic information.
We put forwardan unsupervised means for automatically discovering the set of syntactic variationsthat are preferred by a VNIC type (its canonical forms) and that should be includedin its lexical representation.
In addition, we show that the canonical form extractionmethod can effectively be used in identifying idiomatic and literal usages (tokens) of anexpression in context.96Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom IdentificationWe have annotated a total of 2, 465 tokens for 51 VNIC types according to whetherthey are a literal or idiomatic usage.
We found that for 28 expressions (1, 180 tokens),approximately 40% of the usages were literal.
For the remaining 23 expressions (1, 285tokens), almost all usages were idiomatic.
These figures indicate that automaticallydetermining whether a particular instance of an expression is used idiomatically or lit-erally is of great importance for NLP applications.
We have proposed two unsupervisedmethods that perform such a task.Our proposed methods incorporate automatically acquired knowledge about theoverall syntactic behavior of a VNIC type, in order to do token classification.
Morespecifically, our methods draw on the syntactic fixedness of VNICs?a property whichhas been largely ignored in previous studies of MWE tokens.
Our results confirm theusefulness of this property as incorporated into our methods.
On the 23 expressionswhose usages are predominantly idiomatic, because the baseline is very high noneof the methods outperform it.
Nonetheless, as pointed out by our human annotators,for many of these expressions it can be predicted beforehand that they are mainlyidiomatic and that a literal interpretation is impossible or highly implausible.
On the28 expressions with frequent literal usages, all our methods outperform the baseline ofalways predicting themost dominant class (idiomatic).
Moreover, on these, the accuracyof our best unsupervised method is not substantially lower than the accuracy of astandard supervised approach.Appendix: Performance on the Individual ExpressionsThis Appendix contains the values of the four performance measures, Sens, PPV, Spec,and NPV, for our two unsupervised methods (i.e., CFORM and CONTEXT) as well as forthe supervised method, SUP, on individual expressions in DTIhigh and DTIlow .
Expressions(verb?noun pairs) in each data set are ordered alphabetically.Table 12Performance of CFORM on individual expressions in DTIhigh and DTIlow .Data Set verb?noun Sens (Ridm) PPV (Pidm) Spec (Rlit) NPV (Plit)blow top 1.00 0.92 0.60 1.00blow trumpet 0.89 0.89 0.80 0.80cut figure 0.97 0.97 0.86 0.86find foot 0.98 0.92 0.20 0.50get nod 0.96 1.00 1.00 0.75get sack 1.00 0.96 0.71 1.00have word 0.56 0.96 0.78 0.17hit road 1.00 0.80 0.14 1.00DTIhigh hit roof 1.00 0.65 0.00 0.00kick heel 1.00 0.81 0.12 1.00lose thread 0.94 0.94 0.50 0.50make face 0.74 0.95 0.67 0.22make mark 0.85 1.00 1.00 0.54pull plug 0.89 0.77 0.40 0.62pull punch 0.83 0.94 0.75 0.50pull weight 1.00 0.93 0.67 1.00take heart 1.00 0.97 0.88 1.0097Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1Table 12(continued)Data Set verb?noun Sens (Ridm) PPV (Pidm) Spec (Rlit) NPV (Plit)blow whistle 0.93 0.44 0.37 0.90get wind 0.85 0.73 0.75 0.86hit wall 0.86 0.11 0.09 0.83hold fire 1.00 0.37 0.25 1.00lose head 0.76 0.62 0.41 0.58DTIlow make hay 1.00 0.56 0.12 1.00make hit 1.00 0.71 0.78 1.00make pile 0.25 0.14 0.29 0.45make scene 0.82 0.68 0.45 0.64pull leg 0.64 0.23 0.40 0.80see star 0.80 0.10 0.38 0.95Table 13Performance of CONTEXT on individual expressions in DTIhigh and DTIlow .Data Set verb?noun Sens (Ridm) PPV (Pidm) Spec (Rlit) NPV (Plit)blow top 1.00 0.85 0.20 1.00blow trumpet 0.89 0.74 0.40 0.67cut figure 1.00 0.84 0.00 0.00find foot 1.00 0.90 0.00 0.00get nod 1.00 0.88 0.00 0.00get sack 1.00 0.86 0.00 0.00have word 0.70 0.95 0.67 0.20hit road 1.00 0.77 0.00 0.00DTIhigh hit roof 1.00 0.65 0.00 0.00kick heel 0.97 0.78 0.00 0.00lose thread 1.00 0.90 0.00 0.00make face 0.85 0.88 0.00 0.00make mark 1.00 0.91 0.46 1.00pull plug 0.96 0.69 0.05 0.33pull punch 0.94 0.89 0.50 0.67pull weight 1.00 0.82 0.00 0.00take heart 0.90 0.85 0.38 0.50blow whistle 0.89 0.36 0.18 0.75get wind 0.85 0.65 0.62 0.83hit wall 1.00 0.11 0.00 0.00hold fire 1.00 0.30 0.00 0.00lose head 0.90 0.56 0.12 0.50DTIlow make hay 0.78 0.50 0.12 0.33make hit 0.60 0.38 0.44 0.67make pile 0.50 0.25 0.29 0.56make scene 0.96 0.66 0.30 0.86pull leg 0.82 0.22 0.20 0.80see star 1.00 0.12 0.32 1.0098Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom IdentificationTable 14Performance of SUP on individual expressions in DTIhigh and DTIlow .Data Set verb?noun Sens (Ridm) PPV (Pidm) Spec (Rlit) NPV (Plit)blow top 1.00 0.85 0.20 1.00blow trumpet 0.95 0.72 0.30 0.75cut figure 1.00 0.84 0.00 0.00find foot 1.00 0.90 0.00 0.00get nod 0.91 0.91 0.33 0.33get sack 1.00 0.86 0.00 0.00have word 1.00 0.90 0.00 0.00hit road 1.00 0.80 0.14 1.00DTIhigh hit roof 0.82 0.64 0.17 0.33kick heel 0.97 0.78 0.00 0.00lose thread 1.00 0.95 0.50 1.00make face 1.00 0.96 0.67 1.00make mark 1.00 0.91 0.46 1.00pull plug 0.98 0.90 0.75 0.94pull punch 1.00 0.90 0.50 1.00pull weight 1.00 0.82 0.00 0.00take heart 0.93 0.83 0.25 0.50blow whistle 0.52 0.78 0.92 0.78get wind 0.77 0.71 0.75 0.80hit wall 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.89hold fire 0.00 0.00 0.88 0.67lose head 0.48 0.62 0.65 0.50DTIlow make hay 0.89 0.80 0.75 0.86make hit 0.40 1.00 1.00 0.75make pile 0.38 0.75 0.94 0.76make scene 0.89 0.69 0.45 0.75pull leg 0.55 0.75 0.95 0.88see star 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.9299Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1AcknowledgmentsThis article is an extended and updatedcombination of two papers that appeared,respectively, in the proceedings of EACL2006 and the proceedings of the ACL 2007Workshop on A Broader Perspective onMultiword Expressions.
We wish to thankthe anonymous reviewers of those papersfor their helpful recommendations.
We alsothank the anonymous reviewers of thisarticle for their insightful comments whichwe believe have helped us improve thequality of the work.
We are grateful to EricJoanis for providing us with the NP-headextraction software, and to Afra Alishahiand Vivian Tsang for proofreading themanuscript.
Our work is financiallysupported by the Natural Sciences andEngineering Research Council of Canada,the Ontario Graduate Scholarship program,and the University of Toronto.ReferencesAbeille?, Anne.
1995.
The flexibility of Frenchidioms: A representation with lexicalizedTree Adjoining Grammar.
In Everaertet al, editors, Idioms: Structural andPsychological Perspectives.
LEA, Mahwah,NJ, pages 15?42.Akimoto, Minoji.
1999.
Collocations andidioms in Late Modern English.
In L. J.Brinton and M. Akimoto.
Collocational andIdiomatic Aspects of Composite Predicates inthe History of English.
John BenjaminsPublishing Company, Amsterdam,pages 207?238.Baldwin, Timothy, Colin Bannard, TakaakiTanaka, and Dominic Widdows.
2003.
Anempirical model of multiword expressiondecomposability.
In Proceedings of theACL-SIGLEX Workshop on MultiwordExpressions: Analysis, Acquisition andTreatment, pages 89?96, Sapporo.Bannard, Colin.
2007.
A measure of syntacticflexibility for automatically identifyingmultiword expressions in corpora.
InProceedings of the ACL?07 Workshop on aBroader Perspective on MultiwordExpressions, pages 1?8, Prague.Bannard, Colin, Timothy Baldwin, andAlex Lascarides.
2003.
A statisticalapproach to the semantics ofverb-particles.
In Proceedings of theACL-SIGLEX Workshop on MultiwordExpressions: Analysis, Acquisition andTreatment, pages 65?72, Sapporo.Birke, Julia and Anoop Sarkar.
2006.
Aclustering approach for the nearlyunsupervised recognition of nonliterallanguage.
In Proceedings of the 11thConference of the European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics(EACL?06), pages 329?336, Trento.Burnard, Lou.
2000.
Reference Guide for theBritish National Corpus (World Edition),second edition.
Available at www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk.Cacciari, Cristina.
1993.
The place of idiomsin a literal and metaphorical world.
In C.Cacciari and P. Tabossi, Idioms: Processing,Structure, and Interpretation.
LEA, Mahwah,NJ, pages 27?53.Church, Kenneth, William Gale, PatrickHanks, and Donald Hindle.
1991.
Usingstatistics in lexical analysis.
In Uri Zernik,editor, Lexical Acquisition: ExploitingOn-Line Resources to Build a Lexicon.
LEA,Mahwah, NJ, pages 115?164.Claridge, Claudia.
2000.Multi-word Verbs inEarly Modern English: A Corpus-based Study.Editions Rodopi B. V., Amsterdam.Clark, Eve V. 1978.
Discovering what wordscan do.
Papers from the Parasession on theLexicon, 14:34?57.Cohen, Jacob.
1960.
A coefficient ofagreement for nominal scales.
Educationaland Psychological Measurement, 20:37?46.Collins, Michael.
1999.
Head-Driven StatisticalModels for Natural Language Parsing.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Pennsylvania.Cook, Paul, Afsaneh Fazly, and SuzanneStevenson.
2007.
Pulling their weight:Exploiting syntactic forms for theautomatic identification of idiomaticexpressions in context.
In Proceedings of theACL?07 Workshop on a Broader Perspective onMultiword Expressions, pages 41?48,Prague.Copestake, Ann, Fabre Lambeau, AlineVillavicencio, Francis Bond, TimothyBaldwin, Ivan A.
Sag, and Dan Flickinger.2002.
Multiword expressions: Linguisticprecision and reusability.
In Proceedings ofthe 4th International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC?02),pages 1941?47, Las Palmas.Cover, Thomas M. and Joy A. Thomas.
1991.Elements of Information Theory.
John Wileyand Sons, Inc., New York.Cowie, Anthony P., Ronald Mackin, andIsabel R. McCaig.
1983.
Oxford Dictionary ofCurrent Idiomatic English, volume 2.
OxfordUniversity Press.Dagan, Ido, Fernando Pereira, and LillianLee.
1994.
Similarity-based estimation ofword co-occurrence probabilities.
InProceedings of the 32nd Anuual Meeting of the100Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom IdentificationAssociation for Computational Linguistics(ACL?94), pages 272?278, Las Cruces, NM.d?Arcais, Giovanni B. Flores.
1993.
Thecomprehension and semanticinterpretation of idioms.
In C. Cacciari andP.
Tabossi, Idioms: Processing, Structure, andInterpretation.
LEA, Mahwah, NJ,pages 79?98.Desbiens, Marguerite Champagne and MaraSimon.
2003.
De?terminants et locutionsverbales.
Manuscript.
Available atwww.er.uqam.ca/nobel/scilang/cesla02/mara margue.pdf.Evert, Stefan, Ulrich Heid, and KristinaSpranger.
2004.
Identifyingmorphosyntactic preferences incollocations.
In Proceedings of the 4thInternational Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC?04),pages 907?910, Lisbon.Evert, Stefan and Brigitte Krenn.
2001.Methods for the qualitative evaluation oflexical association measures.
In Proceedingsof the 39th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics (ACL?01),pages 188?195, Toulouse.Fazly, Afsaneh and Suzanne Stevenson.
2006.Automatically constructing a lexicon ofverb phrase idiomatic combinations.
InProceedings of the 11th Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (EACL?06),pages 337?344, Trento.Fazly, Afsaneh and Suzanne Stevenson.
2007.Distinguishing subtypes of multiwordexpressions using linguistically-motivatedstatistical measures.
In Proceedings of theACL?07 Workshop on a Broader Perspectiveon Multiword Expressions, pages 9?16,Prague.Fazly, Afsaneh and Suzanne Stevenson.
Adistributional account of the semantics ofmultiword expressions.
To appear in theItalian Journal of Linguistics.Fellbaum, Christiane.
1993.
The determinerin English idioms.
In C. Cacciari andP.
Tabossi, Idioms: Processing, Structure,and Interpretation.
LEA, Mahwah, NJ,pages 271?295.Fellbaum, Christiane, editor.
1998.WordNet,An Electronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.Fellbaum, Christiane.
2002.
VP idioms in thelexicon: Topics for research using a verylarge corpus.
In Proceedings of theKONVENS 2002 Conference, pages 7?11,Saarbruecken, Germany.Fellbaum, Christiane.
2007.
The ontologicalloneliness of idioms.
In Andrea Schalleyand Dietmar Zaefferer, editors,Ontolinguistics.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin,pages 419?434.Firth, John R. 1957.
A synopsis of linguistictheory 1930?1955.
In Studies in LinguisticAnalysis (special volume of the PhilologicalSociety).
The Philological Society, Oxford,pages 1?32.Fraser, Bruce.
1970.
Idioms within atransformational grammar.
Foundations ofLanguage, 6:22?42.Gentner, Dedre and Ilene M. France.
2004.The verb mutability effect: Studies of thecombinatorial semantics of nouns andverbs.
In Steven L. Small, Garrison W.Cottrell, and Michael K. Tanenhaus,editors, Lexical Ambiguity Resolution:Perspectives from Psycholinguistics,Neuropsychology, and Artificial Intelligence.Kaufmann, San Mateo, CA, pages 343?382.Gibbs, Raymond W. Jr. 1993.
Why idioms arenot dead metaphors.
In C. Cacciari andP.
Tabossi, Idioms: Processing, Structure, andInterpretation.
LEA, Mahwah, NJ,pages 57?77.Gibbs, Raymond W. Jr. 1995.
Idiomaticityand human cognition.
In Everaert et al,editors, Idioms: Structural and PsychologicalPerspectives.
LEA, Mahwah, NJ,pages 97?116.Gibbs, Raymond W. Jr. and Nandini P.Nayak.
1989.
Psychololinguistic studies onthe syntactic behavior of idioms.
CognitivePsychology, 21:100?138.Gibbs, Raymond W. Jr., Nandini P. Nayak,J.
Bolton, and M. Keppel.
1989.
Speaker?sassumptions about the lexical flexibilityof idioms.Memory and Cognition,17:58?68.Glucksberg, Sam.
1993.
Idiom meanings andallusional content.
In C. Cacciari and P.Tabossi, Idioms: Processing, Structure, andInterpretation.
LEA, Mahwah, NJ,pages 3?26.Goldberg, Adele E. 1995.
Constructions: AConstruction Grammar Approach toArgument Structure.
The University ofChicago Press.Grant, Lynn E. 2005.
Frequency of ?coreidioms?
in the British National Corpus(BNC).
International Journal of CorpusLinguistics, 10(4):429?451.Hashimoto, Chikara, Satoshi Sato, andTakehito Utsuro.
2006.
Japanese idiomrecognition: Drawing a line betweenliteral and idiomatic meanings.
InProceedings of the 17th InternationalConference on Computational Linguisticsand the 36th Annual Meeting of the101Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1Association for Computational Linguistics(COLING-ACL?06), pages 353?360, Sydney.Inkpen, Diana.
2003.
Building a LexicalKnowledge-Base of Near-Synonym Differences.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Toronto.Jackendoff, Ray.
1997.
The Architecture of theLanguage Faculty.
MIT Press, Cambridge,MA.Katz, Graham and Eugenie Giesbrecht.
2006.Automatic identification ofnon-compositional multi-wordexpressions using Latent SemanticAnalysis.
In Proceedings of the ACL?06Workshop on Multiword Expressions:Identifying and Exploiting UnderlyingProperties, pages 12?19, Sydney.Katz, Jerrold J.
1973.
Compositionality,idiomaticity, and lexical substitution.
InS.
Anderson and P. Kiparsky, editors, AFestschrift for Morris Halle.
Holt, Rinehartand Winston, New York, pages 357?376.Kearns, Kate.
2002.
Light verbs in English.Manuscript.
Available at www.ling.canterbury.ac.nz/people/kearns.html.Kirkpatrick, E. M. and C. M. Schwarz,editors.
1982.
Chambers Idioms.
W & RChambers Ltd, Edinburgh.Krenn, Brigitte and Stefan Evert.
2001.
Canwe do better than frequency?
A case studyon extracting PP-verb collocations.
InProceedings of the ACL?01 Workshop onCollocations, pages 39?46, Toulouse.Kyto?, Merja.
1999.
Collocational andidiomatic aspects of verbs in Early ModernEnglish.
In L. J. Brinton and M. Akimoto.Collocational and Idiomatic Aspects ofComposite Predicates in the History ofEnglish.
John Benjamins PublishingCompany, Amsterdam, pages 167?206.Lapata, Mirella and Alex Lascarides.
2003.Detecting novel compounds: The role ofdistributional evidence.
In Proceedings ofthe 11th Conference of the European Chapter ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics(EACL?03), pages 235?242, Budapest.Lin, Dekang.
1998.
Automatic retrieval andclustering of similar words.
In Proceedingsof the 17th International Conference onComputational Linguistics and the 36thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics(COLING-ACL?98), pages 768?774,Montreal.Lin, Dekang.
1999.
Automatic identificationof non-compositional phrases.
InProceedings of the 37th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics(ACL?99), pages 317?324, College Park,Maryland.Manning, Christopher D. and HinrichSchu?tze.
1999.
Foundations of StatisticalNatural Language Processing.
The MITPress, Cambridge, MA.McCarthy, Diana, Bill Keller, and JohnCarroll.
2003.
Detecting a continuumof compositionality in phrasal verbs.In Proceedings of the ACL-SIGLEXWorkshop on Multiword Expressions:Analysis, Acquisition and Treatment,pages 73?80, Sapporo.Melamed, I. Dan.
1997a.
Automaticdiscovery of non-compositionalcompounds in parallel data.
In Proceedingsof the 2nd Conference on Empirical Methods inNatural Language Processing (EMNLP?97),pages 97?108, Providence, RI.Melamed, I. Dan.
1997b.
Measuring semanticentropy.
In Proceedings of the ACL-SIGLEXWorkshop on Tagging Text with LexicalSemantics: Why, What and How,pages 41?46, Washington, DC.Mohammad, Saif and Graeme Hirst.Distributional measures as proxies forsemantic relatedness.
Submitted.Moon, Rosamund.
1998.
Fixed Expressions andIdioms in English: A Corpus-Based Approach.Oxford University Press.Newman, John and Sally Rice.
2004.
Patternsof usage for English SIT, STAND, and LIE:A cognitively inspired exploration incorpus linguistics.
Cognitive Linguistics,15(3):351?396.Nicolas, Tim.
1995.
Semantics of idiommodification.
In Everaert et al, editors,Idioms: Structural and PsychologicalPerspectives.
LEA, Mahwah, NJ,pages 233?252.Nunberg, Geoffrey, Ivan A.
Sag, and ThomasWasow.
1994.
Idioms.
Language,70(3):491?538.Odijk, Jan. 2004.
A proposed standard for thelexical representations of idioms.
InProceedings of Euralex?04, pages 153?164,Lorient.Ogden, Charles Kay.
1968.
Basic English,International Second Language.
Harcourt,Brace, and World, New York.Patrick, Jon and Jeremy Fletcher.
2005.Classifying verb-particle constructionsby verb arguments.
In Proceedings ofthe Second ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 200?209,Colcheter.Pauwels, Paul.
2000.
Put, Set, Lay and Place: ACognitive Linguistic Approach to VerbalMeaning.
LINCOM EUROPA, Munich.102Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson Unsupervised Idiom IdentificationR 2004.
Notes on R: A ProgrammingEnvironment for Data Analysis and Graphics.Available at www.r-project.org.Resnik, Philip.
1999.
Semantic similarity in ataxonomy: An information-based measureand its application to problems ofambiguity in natural language.
Journal ofArtificial Intelligence Research (JAIR),(11):95?130.Riehemann, Susanne.
2001.
A ConstructionalApproach to Idioms and Word Formation.Ph.D.
thesis, Stanford University.Ritz, Julia and Ulrich Heid.
2006.
Extractiontools for collocations and theirmorphosyntactic specificities.
InProceedings of the 5th InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC?06), pages 1925?30,Genoa.Rohde, Douglas L. T. 2004.
TGrep2 UserManual.
Available at http://tedlab.mit.edu/?dr/Tgrep2.Sag, Ivan A., Timothy Baldwin, FrancisBond, Ann Copestake, and Dan Flickinger.2002.
Multiword expressions: A pain in theneck for NLP.
In Proceedings of the 3rdInternational Conference on Intelligent TextProcessing and Computational Linguistics(CICLing?02), pages 1?15, Mexico City.Schenk, Andre?.
1995.
The syntactic behaviorof idioms.
In Everaert et al, editors, Idioms:Structural and Psychological Perspectives.LEA, Mahwah, NJ, chapter 10,pages 253?271.Seaton, Maggie and Alison Macaulay,editors.
2002.
Collins COBUILD IdiomsDictionary.
HarperCollins Publishers,second edition, New York.Smadja, Frank.
1993.
Retrieving collocationsfrom text: Xtract.
Computational Linguistics,19(1):143?177.Tanabe, Harumi.
1999.
Composite predicatesand phrasal verbs in The Paston Letters.
InL.
J. Brinton and M. Akimoto.
Collocationaland Idiomatic Aspects of Composite Predicatesin the History of English.
John BenjaminsPublishing Company, Amsterdam,pages 97?132.Uchiyama, Kiyoko, Timothy Baldwin, andShun Ishizaki.
2005.
DisambiguatingJapanese compound verbs.
ComputerSpeech and Language, 19:497?512.Van de Cruys, Tim and Begon?aVillada Moiro?n.
2007.
Semantics-basedmultiword expression extraction.
InProceedings of the ACL?07 Workshop on aBroader Perspective on MultiwordExpressions, pages 25?32, Prague.Venkatapathy, Sriram and Aravid Joshi.
2005.Measuring the relative compositionality ofverb-noun (V-N) collocations byintegrating features.
In Proceedings of JointConference on Human Language Technologyand Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing (HLT-EMNLP?05),pages 899?906, Vancouver.Villada Moiro?n, Begon?a and Jo?rg Tiedemann.2006.
Identifying idiomatic expressionsusing automatic word-alignment.
InProceedings of the EACL?06 Workshop onMultiword Expressions in a MultilingualContext, pages 33?40, Trento.Villavicencio, Aline, Ann Copestake,Benjamin Waldron, and Fabre Lambeau.2004.
Lexical encoding of multiwordexpressions.
In Proceedings of the 2nd ACLWorkshop on Multiword Expressions:Integrating Processing, pages 80?87,Barcelona.Wermter, Joachim and Udo Hahn.
2005.Paradigmatic modifiability statistics forthe extraction of complex multi-wordterms.
In Proceedings of Joint Conference onHuman Language Technology and EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing(HLT-EMNLP?05), pages 843?850,Vancouver.Widdows, Dominic and Beate Dorow.
2005.Automatic extraction of idioms usinggraph analysis and asymmetriclexicosyntactic patterns.
In Proceedings ofACL?05 Workshop on Deep LexicalAcquisition, pages 48?56, Ann Arbor, MI.Wilcoxon, Frank.
1945.
Individualcomparisons by ranking methods.Biometrics Bulletin, 1(6):80?83.103
