AMinimal Recursion Semantic Analysisof LocativesFredrik J?rgensen?University of OsloJan Tore L?nning?
?University of OsloThe article describes a pilot implementation of a grammar containing different types of locativePPs.
In particular, we investigate the distinction between static and directional locatives, andbetween different types of directional locatives.
Locatives may act as modifiers as well as referringexpressions depending on the syntactic context.
We handle this with a single lexical entry.The implementation is of Norwegian locatives, but English locatives are both discussed andcompared to Norwegian locatives.
The semantic analysis is based on a proposal byMarkus Kracht(2002), and we show how this analysis can be incorporated into Minimal Recursion Semantics(MRS) (Copestake et al 2005).
We discuss how the resulting systemmay be applied in a transfer-based machine translation system, and how we can map from a shallow MRS representation toa deeper semantic representation.1.
IntroductionLocative prepositional phrases (PPs) pose several puzzles, both to syntax and semantics.First, locatives may be either static (Example (1)), directional (Example (2)), or ambigu-ous (Example (3)):(1) Kim slept in Paris.
(2) Kim is driving into Paris.
(3) The mouse ran under the table.As we see, the PP under the table may locate the whole event (Example (4)), it mayexpress the goal of motion (Example (5)), or it may express (parts of) the path of motion(Example (6)):(4) The mouse ran around under the table.
(5) The mouse ran under the table and stayed there.?
ILN, PO Box 1102 Blindern, 0317 Oslo, Norway.
E-mail: fredrik.jorgensen@iln.uio.no.??
IFI, PO Box 1080 Blindern, 0316 Oslo, Norway.
E-mail: jtl@ifi.uio.no.Submission received: 29 June 2006; revised submission received: 16 November 2007; accepted for publication:26 January 2008.?
2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2(6) The mouse ran under the table into a hole in the wall.hole in the wall.Second, we may use a combination of prepositions in order to express, for example,the source of motion, as seen in Example (7):(7) A mouse appeared from under the table.Here, under the table seems to refer to a location, and it is from that expresses thedirectional component of the locative.Third, we may see differences in the local interpretation of a PP and the same PPin a wider context.
One popular example is the verb put, where both a static and adirectional (goal) PP complement is accepted, and where both types of PP complementsare interpreted as the goal of the motion.
(8) Kim put the book on/onto the table.Fourth, a preposition may not always be followed by an argument; consider downin Example (9).
When it occurs without an NP complement it may be followed byanother PP as in Example (10).
How can the semantics of this construction be describedcompositionally?
(9) A child ran down.
(10) A child ran down under the bridge.Another example of this phenomenon is how intransitive locatives disambiguatebetween different readings in Norwegian.
The locatives inne and inn are static and direc-tional (goal), in relation to a location which is inside in some (contextually determined)sense.
When one of these locatives is succeeded by a locative PP, the second PP is giventhe same interpretation with respect to motion, as shown in Examples (11) and (12).
(11) Musa l?p innestatic istatic hullet.Mouse.DEF ran insidestatic instatic hole.DEF?The mouse ran insidestatic the hole.?
(12) Musa l?p inngoal igoal hullet.Mouse.DEF ran insidegoal ingoal hole.DEF?The mouse ran into the hole.
?Furthermore, new readings are available when a PP is preceded by inn, as seen inExamples (13) and (14).
(13) Helikopteret fl?y overstatic or path byen.Helicopter.DEF flew overstatic or path city.DEF.
?The helicopter flew overstatic or path the city.?
(14) Helikopteret fl?y inn overgoal byen.Helicopter.DEF flew in overgoal city.DEF.
?The helicopter flew [to above]/[in over] the city.
?230J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of LocativesFinally, we see a variation in how different languages express locatives.
Somelanguages have rich case systems, whereas others use adpositions to express locatives.The focus of this article is locative prepositions in Norwegian and English.
We will notconsider locative case systems here, but we will see differences in which locatives arelexicalized as prepositions, as shown in Example (15), where the Norwegian locativederfra is a lexicalization of the corresponding English complex PP from there.
(15) Musa kom derfra.Mouse.DEF came there-from.
?The mouse came from (over) there.
?Our goal in this article consists of three parts.
First, we take recent developmentswithin formal semantic approaches to locatives (in particular Kracht 2002) and showhow these can be implemented in Minimal Recursion Semantics (MRS; Copestake et al2005), a flat and computationally tractable semantic meta-language for first-order logic.Second, we determine the degree to which the insights from this particular approachto locatives can be implemented in a non-transformational, unification-based computa-tional grammar based on HPSG (Pollard and Sag 1994).
And third, we investigate whatconsequences the current analysis has for syntax and the syntax?semantics interface.Our implementation is of a fragment of Norwegian.
Norwegian is in many respectssimilar to English, and where they are similar we will use examples from English.
Thereare also some interesting differences, and we will use them to illustrate how the newrepresentations can be exploited in an experimental semantic transfer-based machinetranslation system, like the LOGON system (Oepen et al 2004), which uses transferrepresentations based on MRS.The rest of the article is organized as follows.
In Section 2, we consider variousapproaches to locatives, before we describe the formal semantic approach proposedby Kracht (2002) and introduce MRS in Section 3.
In Section 4, we start to present ourown solution to how these two approaches can be combined.
We proceed to classifyNorwegian locative adverbs and prepositions and show how various constructions canbe handled in Section 5.
In Section 6, we describe the main results from our imple-mentation of a grammar producing the intended Kracht-style MRS representations.
InSection 7, we argue that the current analysis is useful for a range of NLP applications,and sketch how it can be applied in a machine translation system.
Finally we compareour approach to other computational approaches in Section 8, discuss evaluation of theanalysis in Section 9, and conclude in Section 10.2.
Syntax and Semantics of LocativesIn this section, we consider relevant linguistic literature on locatives which will serve asa background for our proposal.
We will return to a comparison between our approachand other computational linguistic approaches in Section 8.2.1 Relevant IssuesThere is a growing literature on language and space, but not all of it is relevant forour purposes.
We are interested in how locatives should be handled in a computationalgrammar with a compositional semantic component, and in particular how static and231Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2directional locatives are treated.
There are basically three types of questions relevant toour article, for which we will review relevant linguistic literature:Q1.
Formal Semantics: What do locatives denote?Are locatives referential (denoting a location) or modificational (denoting aproperty of events and entities)?Q2.
Syntax: Are locative PPs complements or adjuncts?If we want our grammar to have compositional semantics, this question isclosely related to the previous one.
Analyzing locative PPs as adjuncts ishard to combine with the referential interpretation of locatives, as thiseither requires that the modified phrase also denotes a location, or thatsome additional machinery is introduced to map the location to a property.Q3.
How is the distinction between static and directional locatives handled?Static and directional locatives differ both in syntactic distribution andtruth conditions, and as we have observed, occurrences of locatives maybe ambiguous between the two.A prominent question in the literature on locative prepositions is the geometricstructure of particular prepositions: for example, what geometric relationship betweenthe ball and the cup has to be realized for an expression like the ball is in the cup to betrue (e.g., Herskovits 1986)?
As interesting as these questions are, we think they belongto the lexicon and the lexical semantic domain and fall outside the scope of this article.There is also interesting work which relates the meaning of individual prepositions to var-ious types of psychological studies; in particular, studies of under which conditions thevarious prepositions are used (see, e.g., many of the references in Bloom et al [1996] andin van der Zee and Slack [2003]).
But again this plays a complementary role to our work.One particular question in the lexical semantics of prepositions is the distinctionbetween what Zwarts and Winter (2000), following Herskovits (1986), call projectiveand non-projective prepositions.
A non-projective preposition, like outside, requiresonly spatial knowledge of the location of the two objects, while a projective preposition,like behind, requires some further information about directions from the reference object.Levinson (1996) makes a further distinction between three types of reference framescalled (i) intrinsic, where behind the house means on the other side of the house thanwhat would be classified as the front side of the house, (ii) extrinsic, where behind the houseis on the opposite side of the house than the speaker, and (iii) absolute, which appliesto expressions like north of the house.
We also think that these distinctions belong to thelexical semantic domain.2.2 Hjelmslev?s Theory of CasesOne of the earliest contributions to the study of locatives is Hjelmslev?s (1935) theory ofcases.
Hjelmslev views case as a relation between two objects (Q1 above), which maybe nominal or verbal (Q1/Q2).
Cases may be either complements or modifiers (Q2),and are expressed through adpositions or inflections.
These observations are based ondata from a wide range of languages, including languages with locative case systems,such as Hungarian and the Caucasian language Tabasaran.
Hjelmslev proposes a three-dimensional case system (Q3), where the dimensions express directionality, coherence,and subjectivity.
The directional dimension consists of approach, neutrality, and sep-232J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locativesaration.
The coherence dimension has two interpretations, inherence (enclosure) andadherence (contact).
And finally, the subjectivity dimension describes the dependencerelation between the point of view and the location, being either subjective, objective,or neutral.
For example, whereas behind or left of is dependent on the point of view,under is not, according to Hjelmslev.Hjelmslev?s theory of cases relates to all three questions, and it has formed the basisof much of the later work done on locatives.
Even though we will focus on languageswhere locatives are expressed by prepositions in adpositions, and ignore languageswhere locatives are expressed through inflectional case, it is a point for us to base ourapproach on formalisms that also extend to languages where locatives are expressed bycase.
When it comes to the dimensions, directionality is particularly important for thequestions we raised in the introduction, while the latter two dimensions relate to lexicalsemantics, which we will not pursue here.2.3 Bierwisch?s Grammar of LocativesBierwisch (1988) gives a detailed account of both syntactic and semantic aspects of loca-tive prepositions in German, and is particularly interested in the relationship betweenthe denotation of locatives (Q1) and the consequences for the syntactic treatment oflocatives (Q2).
Bierwisch notes that locative PPs serve as predicates (Example (16)),arguments (Example (17)), andmodificational adjuncts (Examples (18)?
(19)) (examplestaken from [1988, page 5]; our translations).
(16) Er ist in der Schule.He is in school.
(17) Der Brief liegt auf dem Tisch.The letter is lying on the table.
(18) Ich kaufe das Buch in Berlin.I will buy the book in Berlin.
(19) eine Bru?cke u?ber die Moldaua bridge over MoldauBierwisch notes that even though predication, complementation, and modificationare clearly distinct syntactic relations, distinguishing between locatives as adverbial oroptional complements is in many cases arbitrary (Q2).
Bierwisch argues that direction-ality is a syntactic feature, ?DIR, on locatives.
But as we shall see, a more complex in-ventory of syntactic features corresponding to different types of directionality is needed.Bierwisch (1988) discusses two different positions with respect to the denotationsof locative PPs (Q1): The referential interpretation, where locative PPs denote regions,just like NPs denote things, and the modificational interpretation, where the locativePPs denote properties of being located at a certain place:The referential interpretation seems to be appropriate for PPs in argument position,as e.g., Hans liegt im Bett can plausibly be said to express a relation between Hans anda place denoted by im Bett.
It is difficult to see, however, how on this account PPscan serve as modifiers or predicatives ?
unless a place is construed as a property,but that would violate the gist of the referential interpretation.
The modificationalinterpretation, on the other hand, concerns itself with PPs as adjuncts, but seems to be233Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2in trouble with PPs in argument position.
From this, one might be tempted to draw theconclusion that both interpretations are partially right and that they both are needed.
(Bierwisch 1988, page 8)We will not discuss predicatives in this article, but refer to Kracht (2002) for treatmentof adnominal locatives as a property of individuals.
The duality with respect to theinterpretation of locatives as referential or modificational is central to our article, andwewill show, building on Kracht, how this can be handled in a computational grammar.2.4 Jackendoff?s Conceptual SemanticsRay Jackendoff?s (1983, 1990) conceptual semantics is a decompositional theory ofmeaning, heavily influenced by X-bar theory.
Conceptual semantics organizes a reper-toire of major conceptual categories, the semantic parts of speech, into function?argument structures.
Lexical entries are encoded as Lexical Conceptual Structures(LCSs), as exemplified by the entry for the preposition in in (Example (20)), wherewe find the lexeme, the part-of-speech category, the selectional restriction, and thesemantics on four separate lines.Particularly interesting in our context is the semantic analysis of static and direc-tional locatives (Q1/Q3), and how they combine with verbs (Q2).
The LCSs of staticlocatives are claimed to have one layer, a Place function (Example (20)), as opposedto the LCS of directional locatives, which have two layers, a Path function as theouter function, and a Place function as the inner function (Example (21)).
According toJackendoff, there are five different Path functions: TO, FROM, TOWARD, AWAY-FROM,and VIA.
These map from a Place to a Path.(20)????
?inPNPj[Place IN ( [Thing ]j) ]?????(21)????
?intoPNPj[Path TO ( [Place IN ( [Thing ]j) ] ) ]????
?Furthermore, Jackendoff (1990, page 45) treats directional locatives as arguments tomotion verbs, such that, for example, run subcategorizes for an optional directionallocative argument (Q2), where the optionality is represented with angle brackets, notethe LCS for run given in Example (22).
In the analysis of Example (23) the optional PPargument of run is coindexed with the PP into the room.
Through co-indexing (j) thisresults in the conceptual structure in Example (24), where the path denoted by the PPenters into the function GO(subject entity, path) and thereby expresses the traversing ofthe path.
By convention, the entity indexed i is taken to be the subject position.(22)?????runV?PPj?
[Event GO ( [Thing ]i ,[Path ]j) ]????
?234J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locatives(23) [S [NP John [VP ran [PP into [NP the room ]]]](24) [Event GO ( [Thing JOHN ], [Path TO ( [Place IN ( [Thing ROOM ]) ]) ]) ]Jackendoff?s description clearly shows thatmatters aremore complex than the usualstatic/directional distinction.
First, he introduces a finer classification between the dif-ferent directionals.
Second, he proposes there be a common core, the place, to differentprepositions (e.g., in and into) and to the different uses of a preposition (e.g., the place-use and the TO- and VIA-uses of under).
Both observations will be part of our analysis.But there are several problems with Jackendoff?s approach.
First, one will have tospecify for any verb which can be modified by a directional PP, that the modifier is anoptional part of the verb?s semantics (or LCS).
Because one and the same verb (e.g.,run) can be combined with several directional PPs at the same time, as in Example (6),one would need a way to combine the semantics of the different locative PPs.
Whetherthis should be done by merging the directionals into a single path, or by acceptingmultiple PP complements, is unclear in Jackendoff?s theory.
We believe incorporatingthe optional modifier?s semantics into the verb?s lexical entry leads to a very elaborateand inflexible semantics, and would prefer to avoid this, if possible.The second, and more serious, weakness is that static and directional locativesare treated differently in the syntax.
Static locatives are regarded as adjuncts, whereasdirectional locatives are regarded as complements of motion verbs.
Unless there isprovided syntactic evidence for this distinction, this violates the autonomy of syntax,as the semantics of the construction (whether it is the event or its participants beinglocated) governs the syntactic analysis (whether the construction is analyzed as anadjunct or a complement).
There are of course different syntactic restrictions on whatkind of verbs static and directional PPs can modify, but this applies to many modifyingPPs, and is not in itself sufficient to warrant different syntactic analyses.
We believethat a uniform treatment of locatives, giving the same syntactic analysis independent ofdirectionality, would provide a more sound and consistent analysis.2.5 Fong?s Directionals as Diphasic EventsFong (1997) analyzes directional locatives.
She focuses on the locative cases of Finnish,but includes comparisons to other languages, including English.
Her main focus ofinterest is on how directional locative case in Finnish and directional prepositions inEnglish can be used when there is no movement involved.
In Finnish one uses expres-sions which literally when translated into English would become forgot my wallet into mycar, and in English we have formulations like a bridge from Buda to Pest.
Whereas otherapproaches take the spatial use as basic, and consider the more abstract uses as derived,Fong takes the opposite stand.
The locative case is not in itself about paths.
It has amore abstract meaning, and can be used when there is an underlying ordered domain,together with a proposition changing truth value, either from false to true or from trueto false along the ordering.
This abstract structure can be mapped to a more concretestructure, including space in English, and space or time in Finnish.
Thus in Example (25)there is an ordering in space such that Example (26) is false at the beginning of thisordering, and true towards the end of the ordering.
(25) He went into the room.
(26) He is in the room.235Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2Kracht (2002) compares his approach to Fong?s.
One problem is that Fong?s ap-proach does not extend to the VIA-reading (in Jackendoff?s terminology) of sentenceslike Example (3).
From our point of view, it is also a point that she does not describe acompositional analysis.
Also our focus in this article is strictly on the spatial readings ofthe locatives.2.6 Zwarts?s Vector Space SemanticsIn a series of papers, Zwarts (1997, 2003a, 2003b, 2005; Zwarts and Winter 2000) hasdeveloped a semantics for locatives based on vectors.
A main motivation for this pro-posal is the observation that locatives may be modified by phrases expressing distanceor direction; for example, a measure phrase (ten meters), an adverb (diagonally), or adimensional adjective ( far), as seen in Example (27).
(27) Superman is far/diagonally/ten meters above the building.Many approaches to locatives will consider above the building to denote a region and letthis be a set of points.
It is then not obvious how the modifier ten meters can apply tothis region.
Zwarts and Winter (2000) propose instead to let the locative PP denote aset of vectors (Q1).
Vectors are directed line segments between points in space.
Looselyspeaking, we may say that above the building denotes the set of vertical vectors startingin the building and ending above it.
By then letting ten meters denote the vectorshaving a length of ten meters, the modification can be considered set intersection,and the result are all vectors of length ten meters starting in the building and endingvertically above it.
Syntactically, Zwarts and Winter consider locatives to be modifyingadjuncts.
They mainly consider how nouns are modified.
Because nouns denote setsof individuals, and locatives denote sets of vectors, they assume a primitive semanticfunction loc which maps individuals to their regions as sets of points (or vectors).
Thisis used for the landmark (e.g., the building in the locative PP above the building).
Whena locative modifies a noun, the inverse function is used, such that the set of vectorsis turned into the set of objects which are located within the set of (endpoints of) thevectors.Even though this approach seems to solve the semantic problem of this particulartype of construction, we are not sure how general it can be made.
The compositionalanalysis of Zwarts and Winter (2000) is applied to modification of nouns and to pred-icative uses of locatives; they do not consider verbal modification.
We can see how theapproach can be adopted to verbal modification of static locatives in an event basedframework by introducing a function loc e, mapping events to regions, but we do notsee how it extends to directional locatives.
In later articles, Zwarts (2003b, 2005) extendthe approach to the directional PPs.
A directional PP does not denote a set of vectors,but a set of paths.
A path can be considered a sequence of vectors.
For example, in Johnwent to the store, the path John followed can be formalized as a sequence of vectors,{vi|i ?
I} for an ordered set I, where each vi has the store as its starting point, whereJohn successfully traverses their endpoints, and where the last vector also has the storeas its endpoint.
Intuitively this is a correct description, but Zwarts (2003b, 2005) does notshow how this can be handled in a compositional grammar.
It is a particular problem fora compositional treatment that static PPs and directional PPs are ascribed denotationsof different types, unless they are also given different syntactic analyses (cf.
discussionon Jackendoff in Section 2.4).236J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locatives2.7 Kracht?s Two-Layered LocativesIn Kracht (2002), a novel approach to the semantics of locatives is described.
Krachtpresents a solution to Bierwisch?s (1988) problem of the duality of locatives, by claimingthat locatives consist of two layers (Q1/Q2).
The lower layer, called a localizer phrase(LP), defines a region or location, while the higher layer, called a modalizer phrase(MP), defines events of motion with respect to this region (Q1).Both from a semantic and syntactic point of view, Kracht claims a locative expres-sion is structured as [MP M [LP L NP]].
Here, L is a localizer which together with the NPforms an LP whose semantic contribution is a location.
M is a modalizer which togetherwith the LP forms anMP,whose semantic contribution is an eventmodifier.
The analysisis motivated on the one hand by the dualistic nature of locative semantics, and on theother hand by syntactic and morphological data.
Locatives are realized differently indifferent languages.
Some languages use pre- or postpositions, whereas other languagesuse locative case.
In particular, case languages like Finnish, Hungarian, and Tsez realizethe two different layers as different suffixes.
Still, whether the locative is expressed by anadposition or case, the M+Lmost often form a unit.
This is by far the most frequent casefor English, meaning that the preposition under in Example (3) is analyzed as shown inExample (28).
(28)MPM+L NPunder .
.
.In English, the two-layering is usually not explicit, but it is found in constructionslike Example (7), corresponding to:(29)MPM LPL NPfrom under .
.
.MPs denote sets of events, and their syntactic function is that of adverbial modifi-cation.
The data Kracht discusses give support for five different types of modalizers ormodes, which are the heads of the MPs, denoting five different types of events.1 Thus,if Kracht is right, the modes are true semantical interlingua predicates.
The modes are:1. static (st), corresponding to Jackendoff?s Place Function2.
coinitial (ci), corresponding to Jackendoff?s Path Function FROM3.
cofinal (cf), corresponding to Jackendoff?s Path Function TO1 Kracht (2002) also mentions a sixth mode, the recessive mode, corresponding to Jackendoff?sAWAY-FROM.
But the data he discusses do not sufficiently support the existence of this mode.237Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 24. transitory (tr), corresponding to Jackendoff?s Path Function VIA5.
approximative (ap), corresponding to Jackendoff?s Path FunctionTOWARDSKracht also claims that LPs only occur in restricted contexts, for example, as a comple-ment selected by a verb or a preposition.
The LP denotes a location, and the head of anLP is a localizer function, which defines a location in relation to its complement.Furthermore, Kracht claims that verbs may select a PP complement of a certainmode syntactically, but only interact with the LP semantically.
In other words, theverb takes a location as the semantic argument.
This is explained in more detail byKracht (2006).
The principle governing this particular verb?PP interaction is called theEmptiness Principle (where X corresponds to a preposition, and C to a PP for ourpurposes):Emptiness Principle.
Suppose that X is a syntactic marker in the constituent C.Suppose further that the presence of X in C is determined purely by non-semanticrules (for example selection, agreement, Sandhi).
Then the meaning of X is empty,namely the identity function.
(Kracht 2002, page 204)Thus, we end up with a theory that explains both the dualistic nature of prepositionssemantically, and how the two-layering interacts with the syntax.2.8 SummaryIn this section, we have looked at several theories on locatives.
These theories eachhave a different focus and different goals.
Returning to our initial questions, we see thatboth Kracht (2002) and Jackendoff (1990) preserve the two-layered nature of locatives.But where Kracht?s solution allow directional locatives to be modificational adjuncts,Jackendoff is committed to treating directionals as referential complements of motionverbs.
Furthermore, Fong?s (1997) diphasic events are insufficient to capture the natureof Kracht?s transitory and approximative modes.
In addition, neither Jackendoff norFong provides a formalized compositional semantics to the same extent as Kracht.Furthermore, we find Kracht?s approach to be of greater cross-linguistic validity, andporting the analysis to languages with locative case or a mix of case and prepositions istherefore possible.
For these reasons, we have chosen Kracht?s proposal as the basis forour implementation of locatives.3.
Formal BackgroundIn this section, we describe the formal semantic aspects of Kracht?s (2002) proposal, aswell as the framework of MRS (Copestake et al 2005), a meta-level language for logicalrepresentations.3.1 Formal Ontology and Formal SemanticsKracht (2002) argues for his analysis in terms of modalizers and localizers from data?in particular data regarding case?in several typologically different languages.
He pro-poses a formal ontology in which he specifies a formal semantics for the localizers andmodalizers, and furthermore shows how the fact that a verb can select an LP or NP canbe implemented in a grammar.
Along the way he discusses several other phenomena,238J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locativeslike the lexical meaning of the different localizers, with varying degrees of rigor.
We willnot have much to say about case or languages other than English and Norwegian.
Whatwe will do here is to present Kracht?s formal ontology and semantics for the locativeswhich will serve as a starting point for our analysis.
When it comes to the integrationin a grammar, we will depart from his proposal.
One should also keep in mind that hisambition is not to give full-fledged analyses of sentences containing locatives; he onlydiscusses the relative contribution from the locatives.To describe the semantics formally, Kracht uses a typed lambda calculus with thefollowing basic types:t, the type of truth valuese, the type of objectsv, the type of eventsi, the type of time pointsp, the type of spatial pointsr, the type of regionsj, the type of intervalsThere are two ways to construct complex types.
If ?
and ?
are types then so are ?
?
?,and ??
?.
We write ?
: ?
to express that the term ?
is of type ?.
A term of type t is aformula.
Its denotation in a model will be a member of the domain Dt, the set of truthvalues.
Eachmodel will contain a non-empty set of individualsDe and each term of typee denotes a member of this domain.
A simple formula, for example, man(cain) of type tcan be constructed if man : (e ?
t) and cain : e. The ?-constructor allows a predicate totakemore than one argument, for example, brother : (e ?
e) ?
t, and brother(cain, abel) : t.The domain of ?
?
?, D(???
), is the set of all functions from D?
to D?.
The domainof ??
?, D(???
), is D?
?D?.
Functions are constructed by the use of lambda in thenormal way: if ?
: ?, x is a variable, and x : ?
then ?x?
: ?
?
?.The events allow for a Davidsonian treatment of verbs and adverbs, where a sen-tence like Example (30) denotes a set of events as in Example (31).
(30) Kim is driving.
(31) ?e[drive(e, kim)]The domain of events is a non-empty set Dv.
Kracht assumes the set of time points tobe (isomorphic to) the set of reals, Di = R, and the set of space points to be (isomorphicto) the Cartesian space Dp = R3.
The type j is assumed to be a sub-type of i ?
t, andits domain, Dj ?
D(i?t), is the set of intervals.
The type of regions, r, is assumed to be asub-type of p ?
t. Its domain Dr ?
D(p?t) is the set of all path-connected sets of points.For our purposes, we do not have to go further into the details here.22 We have made one simplification compared to the original proposal.
We have not included groups formodeling plurals because it is not relevant for the points we want to make in this article.
Also, ournotation departs in some respects from the original one.
Kracht uses partly curly bracket notation for(characteristic functions of) sets, whereas we stick to a lambda notation.239Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2For adverbial modification, Kracht claims the MP in Example (32) denotes a set ofevents, as shown in Example (33).
The nuclear sentence in Example (30) also denotesthe set of events in Example (31) and the modification works as an intersection betweenthe two sets.
Hence Example (34) is represented as Example (35), where we use doublequotes to mark material which we have not yet fully analyzed.
(32) into Paris.
(33) ?e[?into Paris?
(e)](34) Kim is driving into Paris.
(35) ?e[drive(e, kim) ?
?into Paris?
(e)]We now turn to the inner structure of theMP and the semantics of the LP.
A sentencelike Example (34) says something about the relationship between the region where Kimis driving and the region within the city of Paris.
To achieve this, Kracht assumes aprimitive function taking objects to their regions, LOC.
As objects can be moving, thisfunction has to be time-dependent, hence of type e ?
(i ?
r).
Thus if t is a particulartime point, t : i, and the term paris of type e is the name of Paris, LOC paris(t), which isof type r, expresses the region of Paris at time t.The LP cannot denote such a simple region, however, but has to be a set of regions,what Kracht calls a neighborhood.
In the example, this will be the set of all regionsthat can be claimed to be in Paris.3 Moreover, such neighborhoods may also varywith time, cf.
behind the car.
Hence the denotation of the LP has to be a parameterizedneighborhood, of type i ?
(r ?
t).An MP has the structure [M [L NP]].
If we assume the contribution from the NP tobe of type e, then the localizer, L, will be of type e ?
(i ?
(r ?
t)), and the modalizer,M, of type (i ?
(r ?
t)) ?
(v ?
t).To take an example, the English prepositions into and in have different modes?intois cofinal whereas in is ambiguous between static and cofinal mode?but they share thesame localizer function IN.
The common LP corresponding to the expressions in Parisand into Pariswill be IN paris.
We could consider such localizers as primitive, but Krachttakes one step further and assumes that there are basic relations between regions, calledlocal relations.
For example, i, of type (r ?
r) ?
t, is a particular relation between tworegions locating the second region within the first region.
The localizer IN can then beanalyzed as ?x?t?r[i(LOC(x)(t), r)] and the LP corresponding to IN paris as ?t?r[i(LOCparis)(t), r)], where r is a variable ranging over regions.
Other prepositions contribute adifferent local content.
Kracht thinks there is no upper bound on the possible differentlocalizers in a language.If we write L for the logical representation of the LP, the static MP can be writtenST(L).
Here ST is a modalizer, a function of type (i ?
(r ?
t)) ?
(v ?
t).
Krachtargues from cross-linguistic data for a finite set of modalizers, in addition to thestatic mode, these being the four modes for directional PPs: coinitial, cofinal, transitory,3 In this particular example, it could have worked to let in Paris denote the maximal region which is inParis, and to say that other regions were in Paris if they were subregions of this region.
But that approachdoes not work for The book is on the table.
For the book to be on the table, it does not suffice that thelocation of the book is contained in the maximal region which is on the table.
The region where the bookis located has to make contact with, and be supported by, the table.
Moreover, the sentence might be trueeven though the whole book is not within the maximal region on the table.240J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locativesapproximative.
They each contribute a different function CI, CF, TR, AP (correspondingto M) of the same type as ST.
These modalizers are shorthand for more structuredfunctions which can?at least partly?be expressed in the lambda calculus.
To achievethis, Kracht assumes some basic functions.
In addition to LOC : (e ?
(i ?
r)) introducedpreviously, there is a function TIME : (v ?
(i ?
t)), taking an event to the set of timepoints in that event, a function ?
: (v ?
e), yielding the principal mover of an event,and a function LOCv : (v ?
r), yielding the (time independent) region of an event.4 Inaddition, there are several defined functions used, for example, CF?, II, PEND, to makethe representations simpler, and hiding some of the complexity.
The cofinal readingCF(L1) can then be spelled out as a series of equivalent representations (Examples(36)?
(42)) making use of such defined functions and relations.5(36) CF(L1)(37) ?L?e[CF?(?
(e),L, TIME(e))](L1)(38) ?e[CF?(?
(e),L1, TIME(e))](39) ?e[PEND(II(?
(e),L1) ?
TIME(e), TIME(e))](40) ?e[PEND(?t[L1(t)(LOC(?
(e)(t))], TIME(e))](41) ?e[?
?t(TIME(e)(t) ?
L1(t)(LOC(?(e))(t)))?
?t(TIME(e)(t) ?
?t?(TIME(e)(t?)
?
t ?
t?
?
L1(t?)(LOC(?(e))(t?)
) ))](42) ?e[?t ?
TIME(e)(?L1(t)(LOC(?(e))(t)))?
?t(TIME(e)(t) ?
?t?(TIME(e)(t?)
?
t ?
t?
?
L1(t?)(LOC(?(e))(t?)
) ))]In plain English, this says that the mover of the event starts in a region which is not oneof the regions in the neighborhood denoted by L, and ends in a region which is in theneighborhood denoted by L. Similar definitions can be given for the coinitial readingand for the transitory reading.
To define the approximative reading, the representationlanguage has to be extended with a function representing distance in the underlyingmetrical space.
The static reading, ST(L), can through a series of equivalences be spelledout as the following:(43) ST(L) = ?e[?t(TIME(e)(t) ?
(L(t)(LOCv(e)))]For any time point t during the event e, the location of e belongs to L.3.1.1 Comparing Kracht?s and Zwarts?
Proposals.
In Section 2, we compared Kracht?s pro-posal briefly with some of the earlier proposals from the literature.
Having the formalapparatus on board, we will now compare it in more detail to Zwarts and Winter?s(2000) proposal, to investigate if and how the two approaches can be combined.
Onepossibility is to try to merge the two proposals.
We may extend Kracht?s semantics with4 Kracht uses the same function for LOC and LOCv, but we have simplified a little as it does not matter forour purposes.5 We refer to Kracht (2002) for the details of the calculations and functions in Examples (36)?
(42).241Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2vectors and let p be the type of vectors instead of points.
The domain of regions, Drwould still be a subset ofD(p?t).
A set of vectors would be a region if the set of endpointsof the vectors is a path-connected set of points, and so forth.Zwarts and Winter?s treatment of modification as intersection, as in ten metersabove the house, can be reconstructed within this framework if we consider it as LP-modification.
This means that ten meters, which intuitively is a set of vectors, V, henceof type p ?
t, has to be lifted to type i ?
(r ?
t).
One can take the temporal part to beconstant.
For the regional part, a possibility is to admit all regions consisting of vectorswhich are ten meters long, hence lift V to the following:(44) ?t?r[?v(r(v) ?
V(v)]This is a little simplified, though, because for a hot air balloon to be ten meters abovethe house one cannot request all parts of the balloon to be ten meters above the house.But that is as much a challenge for Zwarts?
original proposal and it does not belong tothe compositional semantics to solve.This analysis has a problem with compositionality, though.
In an expression likeunder the top, the preposition under is interpreted as M+L, and under the top as an MP.We do not have a constituent corresponding to the LP part of under the top, which can bemodified by ten meters.
Zwarts andWinter?s solution works, on the other hand, becausethey only consider static PPs, or rather NP-modifying PPs.
It remains to show how thiscan be extended to directional PPs.
We will hence ignore such modifiers for the rest ofthis article.3.2 Introducing Minimal Recursion SemanticsMRS (Copestake et al 2005) is a framework for semantic representations in large-scalegrammars.
The main goals for MRS is to be expressively adequate allowing linguisticmeaning to be represented properly, to be compatible with other modules in a grammar,to be computational tractable, and to support underspecification.
The semantic repre-sentations in MRS can be considered a meta-level language for representing an under-lying object language which is typically first-order logic with generalized quantifiers.Example (46) is an MRS structure for the sentence in Example (45).
The basic buildingblocks are the elementary predications (EPs), like dog(x) and chase(x,y), corresponding toatomic formulas.
(45) Every dog chases some cat.
(46) ?h0, h7, {h1: every(x, h2, hA), h3: dog(x), h4: some(y, h5, hB), h6: cat(y),h7: chase(x, y)}, {h0 = q h7, h2 = q h3, h5 = q h6}?MRS is often described as a flat semantics, because the MRS structures are syntacti-cally non-recursive.
This is achieved by labeling all EPs with handles.
In Example (46),h3 is the label on the predication dog(x).
In addition, an EP may have handles as argu-ments (cf.
the argument h2 of every(x, h2, hA)).
Quantifiers introduce special relationsin an MRS, corresponding to generalized quantifiers.
The first argument of a quantifierrelation is the bound variable, the second is the restriction, and the third is the body.These handles are employed in the mapping from the flat meta-level representation tothe object-language expressions with explicit representations of scope.242J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of LocativesScope underspecification is represented in MRS by having handles in argument po-sitions of EPs that are not the labels of other EPs.
The handles are linked (or equated) inthe construction of object-language expressions.
The unconstrained handle argumentshA and hB in Example (46) may be linked in two ways to construct the expressions inExamples (47) and (49), corresponding to the FOL expressions in Examples (48) and(50), respectively.
(47) some(y, cat(y), every(x, dog(x), chase(x, y)))(48) ?y(cat(y) ?
?x(dog(x) ?
chase(x, y)))(49) every(x, dog(x), some(y, cat(y), chase(x, y)))(50) ?x(dog(x) ?
?y(cat(y) ?
chase(x, y)))To constrain the possible linkings of handles and thereby the possible scope relations,MRSs may contain so-called equality modulo quantifiers.
The constraint for the handleh and the label l (of some EP), h = q l, called a qeq constraint, expresses that either h = l,or some non-repeating chain of one or more labels of quantifier EPs intervene.
An object-language formula is described by the MRS structure only if it respects all the constraintsand all variables are bound.The general form of an MRS can be considered a four-tuple ?GT,LT,R,C?
whereR (relations) is the bag of EPs, and C (constraints) is a bag of all the qeq constraints.In addition, GT (global top) is the label of the topmost EP of the structure, while LT(local top) is the label of the topmost EP of a sub-structure.
The LT is needed for rules ofsemantic composition.
Furthermore, the GT is always qeq to the LT of the root phrase.Semantic composition in MRS is performed as follows: The bag of EPs (R) and thebag of qeq constraints (C) of the daughter nodes are appended on the mother node.
Fur-thermore, the global tops (GT) of the daughters are equated on the mother mode.
Scopaland intersective combination are treated differently.
For intersective combination, thelocal tops (LT) are equated.
For example, if black corresponds to the expression inExample (51) and cat corresponds to Example (52), then black cat corresponds to Example(53).
(The coindexation of x and y is done through the interaction with the grammar.
)(51) ?h0, h1, {h1: black(y)}, {}?
(52) ?h0, h5, {h5: cat(x)}, {}?
(53) ?h0, h1, {h1: black(y), h1: cat(y)}, {}?For scopal combination, the LT of the mother is equal to the LT of the scoping daughter,and a qeq constraint is added between the scopal argument of the scoping daughter andthe label of the scoped-over daughter.
One result is seen in Example (54), correspondingto probably sleeps.
(54) ?h0, h1, {h1: probably(h2), h3: sleep(x)}, {h2 = q h3}?For quantifiers, the scopal argument is the restriction of the quantifier, whereasthe body of the quantifier is left unconstrained.
This means that the handle variablein restriction position is qeq to the label of the restriction?s LT. For example, if every243Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2corresponds to the expression in Example (55) and cat corresponds to Example (56),then every cat corresponds to Example (57).
(55) ?h0, h1, {h2: every(x, h3, h4)}, {}?
(56) ?h0, h5, {h5: cat(x)}, {}?
(57) ?h0, h1, {h2: every(x, h3, h4), h5: cat(x)}, {h3 = q h5}?4.
MRS Analysis of LocativesKracht?s analysis is based on higher order functions and functional application.
Howcan that be ported to a system based on (first-order) predication where composition isbuilt by unification?
And how shall the phenomena be described in a grammar?
Wewill work our way top down starting with how MPs are combined with other phrasesand then proceed to the inner structure of MPs.
We will take as our starting pointthe large-scale computational English Resource Grammar, ERG (Flickinger 2002),6 anHPSG grammar using MRS as the format for semantic representation (see Flickinger2002 and Section 6 of Copestake et al 2005).
ERG uses a Davidsonian approach whereverbs introduce events, and adverbial intersective modification involves coindexationof the event variables of the verbal relation and the modifier relation.
Because Kracht?sapproach is also event-based and he considers all adverbial locative PPs (i.e., MPs) asintersective modifiers, the analysis of MPs can be expressed straightforwardly in MRSsand is, in fact, similar to the analysis in ERG.4.1 MRS Analysis of Modalizer Phrases (MPs)The MP can be represented with an EP containing an event variable.
Schematically, theMRS structures in Examples (58) and (59) are composed into Example (60).
As we de-scribed in the previous section, intersective adverbial modification in MRS is expressedby coindexation of the labels of the intersected EPs.
Shared labels are treated in MRSas implicit conjunctions, and coindexation of labels will thus have the same effect asconjoining the two EPs.
(The event variables are coindexed through the interaction withthe grammar.
)(58) [A mouse appeared]?
=?h0, h5, {h1: some(x, h2, h3), h4: mouse(x), h5: appear(e, x)},{h0 = q h5, h2 = q h4}?
(59) [from under the table.
.
.
]?
=?h6, h7, {h7: ?from under the table?(e?
)}, {.
.
.}?
(60) [A mouse appeared from under the table]?
=?h0, h5, {h1: some(x, h2, h3), h4: mouse(x), h5: appear(e, x),h5: ?from under the table?
(e)}, {h2 = q h4, .
.
.
}?6 For more information on ERG, see http://www.delph-in.net/erg/.244J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locatives4.2 MRS Analysis of Localizer Phrases (LPs)We now turn to the question of the inner structure of the MP, the representation of theLP, and how the MP is constructed from the LP.
This is more delicate, as in Kracht?sformalism an L representing an LP is a higher order function?of type (i ?
(r ?
t)).This function occurs on the one hand as an argument to other functions, for example, tothe modalizer functions, ST, CF, CI, TR, AP as in Example (36), and on the other hand asa functor (or relation) when the deeper semantics of the modalizers are spelled out, forinstance, as in Example (42).Our solution is based on a division of semantic representations into several layers.We will distinguish between a surface level and deeper levels.
The surface level willrepresent all semantic information that is grammaticalized, and it will be appropri-ate for parsing and generation, and possibly other types of applications.
The surfacerepresentation does not have to represent all the deeper semantic meaning explicitly,but the deeper meaning should be derivable from the surface representation.
Thus,for this particular example, it suffices with a surface representation corresponding toExample (36) since we have demonstrated how Example (42) can be derived determin-istically.
Because an LP will always be argument to an M or to a verb, it is possibleto give representations where we only see such Ls in argument positions.
We maytherefore consider the type (i ?
(r ?
t)) of parameterized neighborhoods a primitivetype l in our surface representation language.
A modalizer function, like CI, takes firsta parameterized neighborhood, L, and then an event, and yields a truth value.
It is oftype (i ?
(r ?
t)) ?
(v ?
t).
This corresponds to being of type ((i ?
(r ?
t))?
v) ?
t,or (l ?
v) ?
t. Hence it can be represented in MRS as a relation, ci mod, taking twoarguments.
Ignoring the analysis of the table, this yields the MRS representation inExample (62) for the MP in Example (61).
The full semantic representation of Exam-ple (7) is shown in Example (63).
(61) [MP from [LP under [NP the table ] ] ](62) ?h0, h1, {h1: ci mod(e, l), h1: under loc(l, x), {}?
(63) [A mouse appeared from under the table]?
=?h0, h5, {h1: some(x, h2, h3), h4: mouse(x),h5: appear(e, x), h5: ci mod(e, l), h5: under loc(l, y),h9: def(y, h6, h7), h8: table(y)}, {h0 = q h5, h2 = q h4, h6 = q h8}?For applications, we can convert this simple surface interpretation to Kracht?s deeprepresentations by a simple translation procedure.
In this respect we assume a similarapproach to that which Copestake et al (2005, page 312) and ERG take for tense.
In ERG,tense is treated as a simple feature on events; there are no variables corresponding to,for example, time points.
Copestake et al argue that such a representation is preferablesince it simplifies parsing and generation, and it suffices if it is possible to derive thedeeper representation from this representation.
Consider our analysis of the MP intoParis in Example (64).
The meaning of in loc(l, paris) is that the localizer functioncorresponding to inmaps paris to l. This localizer function is what we saw as IN of typee ?
(i ?
(r ?
t)) in Kracht?s formalism in Section 3.1.
Hence Example (64) correspondsdirectly to Example (65) in Kracht?s formalism.
This is equivalent to Example (66), whichis the analysis according to Kracht.
If we then use Kracht?s definition of IN in terms of245Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2the local relation i this can be spelled out as Example (67), and if we use the definitionfor CF this can be translated further into Example (68).
(64) h: cf mod(e, l), h: in loc(l, paris)(65) CF(L)(e) ?
IN(paris) = L(66) CF(IN(paris))(e)(67) CF(?t?r[i(LOC(paris)(t), r)])(e)(68) ?t(TIME(e)(t) ?
?i(LOC(paris)(t), LOC(?(e))(t)))?
?t(TIME(e)(t) ?
?t?
(TIME(e)(t?)
?
t ?
t??
i(LOC(paris)(t?
), LOC(?(e))(t?)
) ) )A similar translation can be applied in the case of the other mode relations, includingstatic.
This means that from our simpler surface representations, we can constructKracht?s representations for application purposes when it is desirable.The location variable l is unbound in the MRS representations.
As with event vari-ables inMRS, we assume an implicit quantifier for each location variable.
But in contrastto the event quantifier, we assume that this quantifier has a fixed narrow scope, that is,it scopes over the modalizer and localizer relations, and is outscoped by all quantifiersbinding referential indices, including the quantifier introduced by the complement ofthe PP.
Moreover, this quantifier will be a quantifier claiming that there exists exactlyone such region.
Though the quantifiers are not explicitly represented, the translationinto Kracht?s functional language proceeds as if they were there.One could ask why we bother to decompose the preposition at all.
Why do wechoose to analyze Example (61) as Example (62) when we could use the simplerExample (69).
(69) ?h0, h1, {h1: under(e, x)}, {}?There are several reasons why we want to decompose.
First, a preposition likeunder can be interpreted in any of three ways {h1: st mod(e, l), h1: under loc(l, x)},{h1: cf mod(e, l), h1: under loc(l, x)}, or {h1: tr mod(e, l), h1: under loc(l, x)}.
A simpletranslation procedure would have to propose all these three when the preposition istranslated into a deeper representation.
But by having the mode explicitly represented,we can to a certain degree disambiguate between the different modes during parsing.As this disambiguation is performed during the syntactic analysis, we believe thatthe disambiguated structure should also be reflected in the semantic representation.Second, we will see in Section 5.2 that the decomposition simplifies the interpretationof sentences where several prepositions co-occur.
Third, we find anaphoric uses oflocative expressions, and an explicit representation is needed to describe the sentencein Example (70).
(70) Kim traveled to Paris, and Sandy lives there.Here, it is clear that the anaphoric there cannot point to the set of events denoted by theMP to Paris.
And as we want there to denote a location rather than an entity, we cannotsimply let it point to Paris either, unless we coerce Paris to a location.
Rather, we let therepoint to the location corresponding to the LP level of the PP to Paris.246J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locatives5.
Norwegian LocativesIn this section, we will use Kracht?s (2002) theory for two purposes.
We will firstshow how locative prepositions can be classified along the modalizer and localizerdimensions, and secondly use the theory to explain differences between Norwegianand English locative prepositions.
In Norwegian, we find no direct counterparts tothe English cofinal prepositions into and onto.
Instead, one uses a combination of anintransitive locative preposition, for example, inne (insidest ) or inn (insidecf ), followedby the relevant preposition, for example, i (in) or pa?
(on).
This was exemplified in thesentences in Examples (11) and (12).
We return to our analysis of these constructions inSection 5.2.
Thus, this section will focus mostly on the analysis of Norwegian locatives.5.1 Classes of LocativesLooking at the selectional patterns of Norwegian prepositions, we identify three distinctpatterns:1.
PP transitive.
These take PP complements.
The most frequent are fra (from)and til (to), with via/om (via) and mot (toward) as possible candidates.
Notethat all these prepositions also occur with NP complements.2.
NP transitive.
These take NP complements.
All ordinary prepositions fallinto this class.3.
Intransitive.
These take no complements, and are semantically equivalentto a full PP with a contextually determined location.
Examples are her(herest ), hit (herecf ), inne (insidest ), inn (insidecf ), and innenfra (from inside).Furthermore, the analysis we propose is decompositional, and we classify locativessemantically along the modalizer and localizer dimensions.
The modalizer dimensionseems to have an upper boundary, as Kracht (2002) claims to have found evidence forfive modalizers.
The localizer dimension has in principle no upper boundary.
In Table 1,we show how the different types of locatives are distributed over the localizer andmodalizer dimensions.
Prepositions in the same column share modalizer, and prepo-sitions in the same row share localizer.
For each Norwegian locative, the correspondingEnglish locative is listed in parentheses.Recall that prepositions can function as heads of MPs and LPs.
For Norwegianand English, there is a general correspondence between the prepositions being headsof static MPs and being LPs.
It is also worth noting the transparent morphology theintransitive prepositions show with respect to mode.
The system is made up of a stemand a suffix, as follows: -e (static), -efra (coinitial), - (cofinal), -om (transitory) and -over(approximative).5.2 More on the Internal Structure of LocativesWe follow Kracht (2002) in assuming that locatives have an MP structure of the form[M [L NP]].
Syntactically, this can be realized in several different ways.
Relating theclasses of prepositions to the MP structure above is done as shown subsequently.
Theunderlined constituents of the MP structure correspond to the preposition of the class.247Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2Table 1Locatives classified with respect to mode.st ci cf tr apPP transitive ?
fra (from) til (to) via (via) mot (toward)NP transitive ved (at) fra (from) til (to) via (via) mot (toward)pa?
(on) av (off) pa?
(onto) over (across) ?i (in) ut av (out of) i (into) gjennom(through)?under (under) ?
under (under) under (under) ?Intransitive/Alternatingaher (here) herfra (fromhere)hit (here) ?
hitover(toward here)inne (inside) innenfra(from inside)inn (inside) innom (?)
innover(inward)hjemme (athome)hjemmefra(from home)hjem (home) hjemom (?)
hjemover(homeward)a See Section 5.2 for alternating prepositions.The relevant part of the semantics for the locative expression is also shown, using theexample sentences from Section 1.1.
PP transitive.
These are analyzed as modalizers.
They select for LPcomplements, which in turn contribute with the localizer relation in orderto get at the full semantics of the locative.M + L + NP(7) [A mouse appeared from under the table ]?
=.
.
.
ci mod(e, l) .
.
.2.
NP transitive.
These are analyzed as combined modalizers and localizers.The lexical preposition is decomposed to get a uniform analysis of thelocative PPs, and to facilitate a disambiguation of the modalizer part asexplained at the end of Section 4.2.M + L + NP(3) [The mouse ran under the table ]?
=.
.
.
st or cf or tr mod(e, l) ?
under loc(l, x) .
.
.3.
Intransitive.
These are analyzed as a modalizer and a localizer.
Thelocalizer function is special in the sense that the landmark is contextuallydetermined.
We have encoded this as a localizer relation taking onlyone semantic argument, of type location.M + LP(15) [Musa kom derfra ]?
=.
.
.
ci mod(e, l) ?
der loc(l) .
.
.As mentioned, some intransitive prepositions may occur with a complement, as wesaw in Examples (11)?(14).
We name these alternating locatives, and analyze them asprepositions with an optional complement.
When the alternating prepositions occurwith a complement, the mode relation scopes over both the contextually determined248J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locativeslocation and the LP complement location.
This analysis is based on the fact that the al-ternating preposition introduces the mode, and does not merely disambiguate betweenmodes, as the cofinal reading of over is only available when preceded by an alternatingpreposition, as shown in Examples (13) and (14).
Thus, we end up with the followinganalysis of alternating prepositions:4.
Alternating.
These are analyzed as a modalizer and a localizer, but take asecond optional LP complement, otherwise identical to intransitiveprepositions.
Examples are inn (insidecf), inne (insidest), and ute (outside).M + LP + LPoptional(12) [Musa l?p inn i hullet ]?
=.
.
.
cf mod(e, l) ?
inne loc(l) .
.
.The MRS for the LP complement analysis of Example (12) is given in Example (71)(where we only show the elementary predications and omit the quantifiers).
Notethat the sentence in Example (12) is syntactically and semantically ambiguous in ourgrammar.
It also has a reading where the PP i hullet is not a complement to inn, butwhere both PPs modify the main event.
The two different types of readings are shownin Section 6.6.
(71) .
.
.
h4: mus(x), h5: l?pe(e, x), h5: cf mod(e, l),h5: inne loc(l), h5: i loc(l, y), h8: hull(y) .
.
.6.
ImplementationIn this section, we first describe the framework the grammar was implemented in.We then proceed to describing the classes of locative prepositions described in Sec-tion 5.
The implementation of Kracht?s (2002) emptiness principle will be central to ourgrammar.6.1 Framework for the ImplementationMRS is a general format for representing different formal object languages andmay be combined with different syntactic models.
It has in particular been com-bined with HPSG grammars where it has been used in the large English ResourceGrammar (Flickinger 2002).
HPSG (Pollard and Sag 1994) is a unification-basednon-transformational theory, using multiple inheritance type hierarchies and unifica-tion of typed feature structures as central formal mechanisms.
The analysis we havepresented so far is compatible with different syntactic models.
We have made a smallfragment of an HPSG grammar to illustrate the analysis.
This fragment was imple-mented in the Linguistic Knowledge Builder (LKB) system (Copestake 2002).
The LKBsystem is an implementation environment for writing HPSG grammars.
The grammarwas based on the Matrix ?starter kit?
for building HPSG grammars (Bender, Flickinger,and Oepen 2002).
The Matrix contains types for building MRSs as the semantic contentof a sentence compositionally.
Principles restricting the syntax-semantics interface, asdescribed by Copestake, Lascarides, and Flickinger (2001), are also encoded in theMatrix.
For instance, a sign (phrase or word) only exposes its handle, main internalargument, and external argument to the rest of the grammar, such that, for example, averb cannot control the arguments of its complement.
The description of the grammar249Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2presented here deviates somewhat from the Matrix, in order to improve readability.
Wealso only present the relevant features of the grammar, as the actual descriptions of thesigns in the grammar are quite complex, having to deal with many other aspects of thegrammar.
We refer to J?rgensen (2004) for details of the implementation.6.2 GoalsWewant our implementation to give the correct syntactic and semantic (MRS) analyses,while having minimal redundancy in the lexicon.
We furthermore want to under-specify ambiguities wherever possible.
Corresponding loosely to questions Q1?Q3 inSection 2, we need to consider the following dimensions that serve as the guidelines forthe grammar presented here:1.
Modalizer+Localizer/Localizer: Locative prepositions must have theability to denote sets of events (i.e., serving as M+L) and denote locations(L), depending on the syntactic context.2.
Adjunct/Complement: Locative prepositions must have the abilityto serve as modificational adjuncts and as referential complements,depending on the syntactic context.3.
Mode ambiguity: Mode ambiguous locative prepositions should displaythis ambiguity in the semantics, and only be disambiguated semanticallywhen the syntactic context allows it.6.3 NP Transitive PrepositionsFor sentence (3), we want to obtain the MRS in Example (72).
The HPSG representationfor the sign under is given in Figure 1.
The bag of EPs provided by under is repre-sented as a list which is the value of the MRS.RELS, and where, for example, the EP?h5: under loc(l, y)?
is represented by an AVM where under loc is the value of PRED, h5the value of LABEL, l is the value of ARG0, and y the value of ARG1.
Moreover, h5 is thelocal top of this MRS and that is encoded as the value of MRS.HOOK.LTOP.
(72) [The mouse ran under the table]?
=?h0, h5, {h1: def(x, h2, h3),h4: mouse(x), h5: run(e, x),h5: st or cf or tr mod(e, l), h5: under loc(l, y),h9: def(y, h6, h7), h8: table(y)},{h2 = q h4, h6 = q h8}?We arrive at the MRS in Example (72) as follows: Mode underspecification: The lexical entry for under introduces adisjunctive modalizer relation (st or cf or tr mod rel). Combined M+L: Under introduces two semantic relations (in MRS.RELS),one mod rel (st or cf or tr mod rel) and one loc rel (under loc rel). Event modification: The MOD contains a list of elements undermaymodify.
We see from Figure 1 that undermodifies a verb, and that themain variable of the verb (MOD<MRS.HOOK.INDEX>) is coindexed with250J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locatives??????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?st or cf or tr mod and loc lex itemSTEM??under?
?PART-OF-SPEECH prepMOD?????
?PART-OF-SPEECH verbMRS?
?HOOK[LTOP hINDEX U]????????COMPS?????
?PART-OF-SPEECH nounMRS?
?HOOK[LTOP hINDEX y]????????MRS????????????????????????
?KEY-REL 1HOOK[LTOP hINDEX U event or loc]RELS?1????
?PRED st or cf or tr mod relLABEL hARG0 U event or locARG1 l?????,????
?PRED under loc relLABEL hARG0 lARG1 y?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?Figure 1Simplified AVM for the NP transitive preposition under.the main variable of the preposition (MRS.HOOK.INDEX), treating thepreposition as an intersective modifier.
(Disregard the underspecifiedvariable type event or loc for now, except for the fact that because theverb?s MRS.HOOK.INDEX is an event, the underspecified type will alsobe constrained to be an event in cases of adverbial modification.
)6.4 PP Transitive PrepositionsWe now turn to the sentence in Example (7), for which we want to achieve the MRS inExample (73).
(73) [A mouse appeared from under the table]?
=?h0, h5, {h1: some(x, h2, h3),h4: mouse(x), h5: appear(e, x),h5 : ci mod(e, l), h5 : under loc(l, y),h9: def(y, h6, h7), h8 :table(y)},{h2 = q h4, h6 = q h8}?251Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2This is more complex, as we want to arrive at this MRS while still using the sign forunder from Figure 1.
The representation for from acting as a PP transitive preposition isgiven in Figure 2.
We have two different entries for the preposition from in the lexicon,one where it is PP transitive and one where it is NP transitive.
The entry for the NPtransitive from is more or less identical to under, except that it introduces differentsemantic relations (ci mod rel and at loc rel).The two signs in Figure 1 and Figure 2 together correspond to our imple-mentation of the emptiness principle, by unification of the constraint id rel onCOMPS<MRS.KEY-REL> in Figure 2 and MRS.KEY-REL in Figure 1.
As we recall fromSection 2.7, the emptiness principle claims that when an element is fixed regardlessof the interpretation of the sentence, it is interpreted as the identity relation.
Kracht?sclaim is more radical than our implementation, as he claims that any element may beempty.
We have only implemented the emptiness principle for prepositions.The MRS in Example (73) is obtained as follows: Identity relations: The claim that any preposition can be semanticallyempty corresponds in our type hierarchy to claiming that every relationintroduced by a preposition has an identity relation as a subtype of it,as shown in Figure 3.
Recall that empty elements must be syntacticallyselected.
Thus we constrain the selecting head, whether a verb or amodalizer, to select a preposition with an empty element. Localizer?Static modalizer correspondence: As already noted, thereis a general correspondence between the static prepositions and theprepositions that figure as complements of PP transitive prepositions. Selectional constraints: From selects a static preposition whosekey semantic relation is the identity relation.
This is representedin MRS.KEY-REL, a feature that every sign exposes according to the????????????????????????????????
?ci-mod-lex-itemSTEM ?from?PART-OF-SPEECH prepCOMPS???????
?PART-OF-SPEECH prepMRS???
?KEY-REL id rel & static mod relHOOK[LTOP hINDEX l loc]????????????MRS???????????
?HOOK[LTOP hINDEX e]RELS?????
?PRED coinitial mod relLABEL hARG0 eARG1 l??????????????????????????????????????????????????
?Figure 2The PP transitive preposition from and LP selection.252J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locativesprep relationmode rel loc rel id rel.
.
.
static mode rel .
.
.static mode id relFigure 3A type hierarchy of prepositional relations.principles for the Matrix (Bender, Flickinger, and Oepen 2002).MRS.KEY-REL is constrained to be of a common subtype ofstatic mod rel and id rel, represented in the AVM by ?&?. Type constraint: The MRS.HOOK.INDEX, i.e., the external argument of thecomplement, is constrained to be of type loc.
Recall from Figure 1 thatthis was underspecified as event or loc.6.5 Intransitive PrepositionsIntransitive prepositions are implemented similarly to NP transitive prepositions, ex-cept that they take no complements (empty COMPS list), and that they introduce a loc relwith only one variable.
The MRS we obtain is shown in Example (74).
(74) [A mouse ran here]?
=?h0, h5, {h1: some(x, h2, h3),h4: mouse(x), h5: run(e, x),h5 :st or cf mod(e, l), h5 :here loc(l)},{h2 = q h4}?6.6 Alternating PrepositionsAlternating prepositions are implemented as something between a PP transitive prepo-sition and an intransitive preposition.
They take optional static PP complements, whichin turn are interpreted as LPs (identical to LP selection for PP transitive prepositions).The location variable of the internal loc rel and the complement loc rel are coindexed,such that themod rel predicates over both localizer relations.
TheMRSs for the syntacticanalysis of Example (10), where the second PP is a complement of down, is shown inExample (75).
As mentioned in Example (12) in Section 5.2, Example (10) is syntacticallyand semantically ambiguous in our grammar.
It has a reading where the PP under thebridge is not a complement to down, but where both PPs modify the main event.
This isshown in Example (76).
(75) [A child ran (MP down (LP under the bridge))]?
=?h0, h5, {h1: some(x, h2, h3), h4: child(x), h5: run(e, x),h5 :cf mod(e, l), h5 :down loc(l), h5 :under loc(l, y),253Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2h6: def(y, h7, h8), h9: bridge(y)},{h2 = q h4, h7 = q h9}?
(76) [A child ran (MP down) (MP under the bridge)]?
=?h0, h5, {h1: some(x, h2, h3), h4: child(x), h5: run(e, x),h5 :cf mod(e, l1), h5 :down loc(l1), h5 :st or cf mod(e, l2), h5 :under loc(l2, y),h6: def(y, h7, h8), h9: bridge(y)},{h2 = q h4, h7 = q h9}?6.7 PP Transitive VerbsThe mechanisms we introduce for LP selection and mode underspecification have untilnow been used to describe complex locative PPs.
But the same mechanisms can beused for other heads selecting PP complements, for example, verbs.
Recall Bierwisch?s(1988) claim that liegen (lie) is a relation between the subject and a location.
Thiscan now be implemented directly, by stating in the description of the verb that itselects an LP complement, identical to the complement of the PP transitive (modalizer)prepositions.More interesting is the class of verbs known as put-verbs.
Such verbs take bothstatic and cofinal complements, and express directionality in both cases as we saw inExample (8).
Kracht?s two-layering enables us to let the verb select the full PP (MP) asthe syntactic argument, but only the denotation of the LP as its semantic argument.
Theverb can thus express the movement, while the PP contributes the goal of the movementto the semantics.
We encode this by describing the PP complement of the verb to be anLP (denoting a location) of static or cofinal mode (in COMPS<.
.
., [MRS.KEY-REL]>).Thus, we arrive at the same semantics for both sentences in Example (8).
At the sametime we constrain the verb to only select PPs of static or cofinal mode.
A simplifiedAVM for the verb put is shown in Figure 4.
A similar treatment can be given to anyverb that semantically selects a location rather than an event as the denotation of thePP complement.6.8 SummaryWe have achieved our goals for the implementation from Section 6.2 as follows:1.
Adjunct/Complement: All locatives have the ability to serve asmodificational adjuncts through the MOD list.
All locatives havethe ability to serve as complements, by being selected by a head,for example, a modalizer ( from) or a verb.2.
Modalizer+Localizer/Localizer: When serving as a modificationaladjunct, the item on the MOD list constrains the MRS.HOOK.INDEXof the PP to be an event, namely, the PP denotes a set of events.When serving as a complement, the selecting head may constrainthe MRS.HOOK.INDEX of the PP to be a location, and at the same timespecify the main semantic relation, the MRS.KEY-REL, to be an id rel,which is a subtype of all mod rels.3.
Mode ambiguity: We introduce disjunctive semantic relations formod rels.
These may be further constrained by the syntax, for254J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locatives????????????????????????????????????????????????
?lp trans verb lex itemSTEM??put?
?PART-OF-SPEECH verbCOMPS?????
?PART-OF-SPEECH nounMRS?
?HOOK[LTOP h2INDEX y]???????,??????
?PART-OF-SPEECH prepMRS???
?HOOK[LTOP h3INDEX l loc]KEY-REL static or cofinal mod rel & id rel????????????MRS????????????????
?HOOK[LTOP h1INDEX e]RELS??????????
?PRED put relLABEL h1ARG0 eARG1 xARG2 yARG3 l????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?Figure 4Simplified AVM for the verb put.example, by specifying that only motion verbs may be modified bydirectional modes.
This particular feature has not been implementedyet, however.7.
Machine TranslationOur analysis can be applied in several types of applications.
First of all, it serves as thebasis for a coherent analysis of locatives, for example, in that PP complements of bothprepositions and verbs are analyzed in a uniform manner.
It also makes the syntax?semantics interface clean, in implementing the dualistic nature of locatives as referentialand modificational.
We believe one of the strengths of this analysis concerns the choiceof the level of representation.
In an NLP system where spatial reasoning is required,one may choose to spell out the details in the analysis, as shown in Section 4.2.
Inother NLP applications, the superficial representation is sufficient, and one does notwant to introduce a complex model involving movers, time points, and parameterizedneighborhoods.
In this section, we show how our analysis may serve as the best level forrepresentations in a transfer-based machine translation system, due to the interlingualnature of the modes.Kracht (2002) argues that the modes can be found across a wide range of lan-guages, making them good candidates for true interlingua predicates.
The localizer255Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2functions, however, are language-dependent, and there exist different systems for loca-tives in different languages.
Also, whether the particular combination of modalizerand localizer is lexicalized is language-specific, as we see in Section 7.2.
We willillustrate the flow in a semantic-based transfer MT system from Norwegian toEnglish, with two examples.
The modes are treated as interlingua predicates, whereasthe localizer functions are language-dependent, and thus transferred by the transfermodule.
In Section 7.1, we consider an NP transitive preposition, and show how amode-disambiguated preposition may translate differently from the mode-ambiguouspreposition.
And in Section 7.2, we describe how an intransitive preposition is trans-lated into a complex PP consisting of a PP transitive preposition and an intransitivepreposition.7.1 Translation of an NP Transitive PrepositionConsider the Norwegian preposition i (in).
It is ambiguous between a static and a cofinalreading, but may be disambiguated by the syntactic context.
The translation flow of thecofinal and ambiguous readings of the locative i (in) are shown in Example (77).
(77)icf ist/cf?
analysis ?
?
analysis ?
{ cf mod(e, l), i loc(l, x) } { st or cf mod(e, l), i loc(l, x) }?
transfer ?
?transfer?
{ cf mod(e, l), in loc(l, x) } { st or cf mod(e, l), in loc(l, x) }?
generation ?
?
generation ?into in7.2 Translation of an Intransitive PrepositionIntransitive locatives, or context-dependent locatives, provide more interesting mis-matches between Norwegian and English locative expressions.
In Table 1 from Sec-tion 5.1, we see that Norwegian has a rich inventory for expressing context-dependentspatial relations.
One example is the Norwegian locative derfra, as seen in Example (15),which translates to the English complex from there.
These kinds of mismatches arenow easily explained.
In Norwegian, we find a lexicalization for the combinationof the coinitial mode and the localizer function der loc (semantically interpreted asdistal, and contrasted by proximal/close).
In English, we do not find this lexicalizedpreposition, and the two semantic relations (modalizer and localizer, respectively) arerealized as separate lexical items.
The translation flow of the locative derfra is shown inExample (78).256J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locatives(78)derfra?
analysis ?
{ ci mod(e, l), der loc(l) }?
transfer ?
{ ci mod(e, l), there loc(l) }?
generation ?from thereTranslating in the other direction, we also receive a second possible translation:fra der.
This can be blocked, however, if the transfer mechanism allows for rule orderingwhere rules can be optional or obligatory, as in the LOGON system (Oepen et al 2004).Then the rule choosing derfra is tried first and if it succeeds the other option is blocked.8.
Other Computational ApproachesIn Section 2 we considered different linguistic approaches to locatives that were notcomputational.
Wewill here compare our approach to earlier computational approacheswith similar goals to ours.8.1 Creary et alCreary, Gawron, andNerbonne (1989) describe a fully implemented system for databasequeries.
They propose to take locative PPs to be arguments rather than modifiers.They observe that such an approach must explain occurrences of several PPs as inExample (79).
(79) Al works on Mass Ave in Boston near MIT.Their solution is to let each PP denote a region.
The denotations of the three PPs areintersected (as point sets) resulting in one region satisfying all three of them.
This regionis then taken as an argument to the semantics of the verb.Such a solution seems to work for this example.
But all the examples in the articleare static PPs.
This approach does not so easily extend to directional prepositionsbecause directional prepositions cannot be taken to denote regions.8.2 The Core Language EngineIn the Core Language Engine, ordinary PPs are consideredmodifiers (Alshawi 1992).
Se-mantically, an ordinary preposition is a relation between two arguments, the landmarkobject, and the event denoted by the verb in the case of verbal modification.
There is nospecial treatment of locative prepositions and no distinction ismade between directionaland static prepositions.
This is in many ways a baseline approach to prepositions inevent-based computational grammars, and we sketched it in Example (69).
In additionto the ordinary PPs, four other classes of PPs are recognized where one is the class ofsubcategorized prepositions which are semantically empty, as in handed a book to Mary.257Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2We argued in Section 4.2 for why we think our refined analysis is an improvement overthe baseline approach.8.3 VerbMobilIn VerbMobil the semantics of prepositions are also considered relations between thelandmark and the event (or object) it modifies (Buscbeck-Wolf 1995).
Syntactically,directional PPs may be complements, but they are still considered semantic modifiers.In addition to relations and arguments, the semantic representations in VerbMobil aredecorated with additional information which is exploited in the transfer step of thetranslation.
In particular, the representations for PPs and the lexical entries for preposi-tions contain a feature ROLE as part of the argument (to be) filled by the landmark.
ThisROLE can contain information like way rel for directionality, and its negation for staticPPs.
In German, this property will correspond to whether the case of the landmark isaccusative or dative.Though this extra ROLE information may be a useful tool in translation, it lacksa denotational meaning.
Moreover, this approach does not explain how we can makereference to locations, nor the structure of the PP transitive prepositions.8.4 Trujillo?s Spatial Prepositions and Machine TranslationTrujillo (1995) analyzes locatives in the context of transfer-based machine translation.He first develops a general format for a flat semantic representation called indexedlexeme lists, and shows how transfer between English and Spanish can be carried outon such representations.
He then investigates differences in properties between Englishand Spanish spatial prepositions, and discusses the proper semantic representation oflocatives and how this can be exploited in translation.The semantic representations used by Trujillo are quite similar to MRSs and in-troduce many properties that can also be found in the MRS formalism.
One differ-ence between the two is that indexed lexeme lists lack an equivalent to the scopingmechanism in MRS, and Copestake et al (2005) show how this can be a problem forsemantic disambiguation and translation.
The MRS formalism can be considered animprovement over the indexed lexeme lists.Trujillo does not decompose the prepositions.
Syntactically, both static and di-rectional prepositions are considered adjuncts and semantically they are consideredmodifiers.
Prepositions denote relations between the event denoted by the verb andthe landmark object.
Trujillo observes that prepositions can be stacked as in Exam-ple (7) from the introduction, repeated as Example (80).
He proposes an analysis wherethe relevant parts are shown in Example (81) in a notation comparable to ours.
(80) The mouse appeared from under the table.
(81) mouse(x), table(y), appear(e, x), from(p, e, q), under(q, p, y)As we see, Trujillo lets the prepositions take three arguments.
To facilitate a comparisonwith our implementation and with the English Resource Grammar in the next section,we will call the three arguments ARG0, ARG1, and ARG2, respectively; for example, p is258J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locativesthe ARG0 of from(p, e, q), e is the ARG1, and q is the ARG2.7 The last two arguments, ARG1and ARG2, are filled with the event being modified and the landmark, respectively, asin the Core Language Engine approach.
When the two prepositions are combined, thelower preposition, under, modifies the object which is the ARG0 of from, and at the sametime the object which is the ARG0 of the lower preposition is taken to be the landmark,the ARG2 of from.Though this solution might work technically for translation purposes, we haveproblems making sense out of the status of these objects.
Trujillo (1995, page 172) saysthat ?these correspond to the place objects that Sondheimer (1978) proposes, althoughfor the purposes of this thesis they become place holders for spatial relations.?
The ERGalso uses a representation with some of the same properties, and we will return to amore detailed comparison to our proposal in the following section.
Trujillo does notdecompose the prepositions, but he classifies the prepositions with respect to differentsemantic properties including whether they are static or directional and different di-rectionality types, and places them in a semantic type hierarchy.
We think that such atype hierarchy might be useful for selecting the translations of the locative part of apreposition, but from our perspective, this belongs to the lexical semantic propertiesand is beyond the scope of this article.8.5 The English Resource GrammarThe English Resource Grammar (Flickinger 2002)8 is similar to our proposal in usingMRS as the semantic formalism in a linguistic-based computational grammar, but thetreatment of locatives is different from ours.
Because the ERG treatment of prepositionsis quite elaborate, treating different prepositions in different ways and interleaving thesemantic analysis with the grammar, we will not be able to give a full and fair presen-tation of the full ERG analysis, but we will try to sketch some of its main propertiesregarding locatives, and compare them to our approach.8.5.1 Prepositions in ERG.
In Example (82) we see a simplified logical representationof the relevant aspects of the MRS representation ERG ascribes to Example (1).
Thepreposition introduces a relationship between its ARG1, the main event of the sentence,e1, and its ARG2, the landmark Paris.
In addition, prepositions, like verbs, introduce theirown events as an ARG0.
This event is used as the main event of sentences where the PPis used predicatively (Kim is in Paris), but e2 is not used in Example (82).
An intransitivepreposition like down also modifies the main event and introduces its own event, asseen in the ERG analysis of Example (9), shown in Example (83).
This analysis is similarto the ERG analysis of intersective adverbs, like fast.
Syntactically, a locative PP can beadjoined to any kind of VP and modify the VP event.
In addition, there is a class ofdirectional verbs, like go, run, and drive, which can take a locative PP as an argument.Semantically, however, this is interpreted as modification.
Thus even though sentence(2) gets two different syntactic analyses, they are both ascribed the same semantics (seeExample (84)).
(82) sleep(e1, kim) ?
in(e2, e1, paris)7 Trujillo used other names on the features in his implementation.8 See http://www.delph-in.net/erg.
ERG has developed during the time we have worked on this article.We will here compare to the version of 17-mar-07.259Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2(83) some(x, child(x), run(e1, x) ?
down(e2, e1))(84) drive(e1, kim) ?
into(e2, e1, paris)(85) mouse(x) ?
run(e1, x) ?
under(e2, e1, y) ?
table(y)(86) mouse(x) ?
run(e1, x) ?
underdir(e2, e1, y) ?
table(y)Only directional PPs can be arguments to directional verbs.
There are three differenttypes of locative prepositions in ERG.
Non-directional prepositions, like at, can head aPP which is adjoined to a VP, but cannot head a PP which is argument to a directionalverb.
Ambiguous prepositions, like in and under, can head PPs that are adjoined toverbs, as well as PPs that are arguments to directional verbs.
The two different syntacticanalyses the grammar ascribes to Example (3) are semantically both considered as eventmodification, but the semantic predicate ascribed to the preposition is different in thetwo cases.
When the PP is argument to the verb the preposition is constrained to bedirectional (Example (86)), but not when it is adjoined to the VP (Example (85)).
Thethird class of prepositions, represented by to, into, and onto, which we would classify asdirectional, can head PPs in both types of constructions, but ascribe identical semanticsto the two (Example (84)).The main differences between ERG and our proposal so far are the following.ERG does not decompose prepositions semantically.
ERG introduces a distinction be-tween directional and static, but does not distinguish between different modes ofdirectionality.
In ERG there is a correspondence between syntax and directionality, asPPs that are syntactic arguments of motion verbs have to be read directionally.
Onthe other hand, unambiguously directional prepositions are also allowed to be non-arguments and modify any VP.
In our analysis, a semantically modifying PP is syn-tactically always adjoined to the verb.
We do not postulate a syntactic ambiguity inExample (2).
And even in semantically ambiguous sentences, like Example (3), weassign only one syntactic structure and keep the mode underspecified in the syntax?semantics interface.8.5.2 Put-Verbs.
Example (8) gets the analysis in ERG shown in Example (87).
The mainpoint of the analysis is that put takes two individual arguments, corresponding to thesubject NP and the direct object NP, and one proposition, which again describes a spatialrelationship between two individuals corresponding to the direct object NP and thecomplement of the locative preposition.
(87) def(y, book(y), def(z, table(z), put(e1, kim, y, on/onto(e2, y, z))))9(88) def(y, book(y), def(z, table(z), put(e1, kim, y, l), on(l, z)))Themost likely way to read this semantic representation when the PP is on the tablemustbe as a resultative.
The result of the action is that the relationship on holds between thebook and the table.
Exactly the same type of analysis is applied in ERG when the PP is9 We have simplified the representation a little, by not including the so-called propositional messages(prpstn m), which is part of the ERG version we compare to, as they are without importance forthe discussion.260J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locativesthe unambiguously directional onto the table, that is, now put is a relationship betweenthe subject, the object, and the proposition expressing that the relationship onto holdsbetween the book and the table.
But what should it mean that the relation onto holdsbetween the two objects?
In our analysis, as discussed in Section 6.7 and illustrated inExample (88), the verb expresses a relationship between an object and a location directly.The sentence with onto ends up with exactly the same semantic representation as thesentence with on.8.5.3 Alternating Prepositions.
When an intransitive preposition is followed by a PP, asin Example (10), repeated here as Example (89), ERG provides two different analyses.The first is that the two locatives both modify the main event, e1, of the sentence inde-pendently of each other as in Example (90).
This analysis corresponds to our analysiswhere two PPs modify the same VP (note Example (76) in Section 6.6), presented inlogical form in Example (92).
We read the second ERG analysis (Example (91)) as downmodifying the running event.
At the same time down introduces its own event e2, andthis event is modified by under the bridge, in the same way as under the bridge wouldmodify a verb.
(89) A child ran down under the bridge.
(90) some(x, child(x), def(y, bridge(y), run(e1, x) ?
down(e2, e1) ?under(e3, e1, y)))(91) some(x, child(x), def(y, bridge(y), run(e1, x) ?
down(e2, e1) ?under(e3, e2, y)))(92) some(x, child(x), def(y, bridge(y), run(e1, x) ?
cf mod(e1, l1) ?down loc(l1) ?
st mod(e1, l2) ?
under loc(l2, y)))(93) some(x, child(x), def(y, bridge(y), run(e1, x) ?
cf mod(e1, l1) ?down loc(l1) ?
under loc(l1, y)))We understand this as ERG recognizing the same ambiguity in Example (89) as we do,and that ERG tries to capture the reading we analyzed as Example (75), presented inlogical form in Example (93), in this way.
But it is neither obvious what kind of eventis introduced by down, nor how this event differs from the event introduced by run.
Wethink there is only one event involved here.
In this event the child moves downwardand ends up under the bridge.
Hence it is a cofinal movement where the location isconstrained both by down and under the bridge.
In the first reading, where the two PPsmodify the VP independently (Example (92)), there is still only one event, but becausethe two PPs might have different modes?e.g., downmay be cofinal and under the bridgemay be static?two different locations are considered.
The cofinal down considers thelocation where the movement ends, while the static under considers the location of thewhole event.Another difference between our approach and ERG is that ERG ascribes the sametwo types of analysis to a sentence like Example (94).
(94) A child went down from the bridge.261Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2We do not find this sentence ambiguous in the same way as Example (89).
We thinkit can only mean that both PPs modify the VP.
This is the only possible analysis inour approach, because from the bridge cannot be argument to down, as down in ourgrammar only allows static PPs as complements (interpreted as LPs), whereas from isunambiguously coinitial.8.5.4 PP Transitive Prepositions.
Example (7) gets an analysis like Example (95) in ERG,and our analysis is presented in Example (96).
The analysis in Example (95) resemblesthe one in Example (91), namely, from is treated as if it were intransitive and its lastargument place is not filled; the variable u does not occur elsewhere.
As with theanalysis in Example (91), we have problems in understanding exactly how the evente2 in Example (95) is different from the main event e1.
(95) some(x,mouse(x), def(y, table(y), appear(e1, x) ?
from(e2, e1,u) ?under(e3, e2, y)))(96) some(x,mouse(x), def(y, table(y), appear(e1, x) ?
ci mod(e1, l) ?under loc(l, y)))8.5.5 Lexicalized Locatives.
ERG also contains a quite different analysis for some locativeand temporal prepositions and adverbs.
We only consider the locative ones here.
Theadverb (intransitive preposition) home in Example (97) is analyzed in ERG as a modifier(adjective) on an individual y which is a definite place (Example (98)).
In addition, it in-troduces the unspec loc-relation which behaves as a preposition, taking the place y as itslandmark (ARG2), modifying the main event of the sentence, e1 (ARG1), and introducingits own unused event, e2 (ARG0).
Also the adjectival modifier home introduces its ownunused ARG0 event.
(97) The child went home.
(98) def(x, child(x), implicit q(y, place(y) ?
home(e3, y), go(e1, x) ?unspec loc(e2, e1, y)))(99) def(x, child(x), go(e1, x) ?
cf mod(e1, l) ?
home loc(l))ERG?s lexicalized locatives (Example (98)) bear some similarities to our analysis(Example (99)) if one considers the individual place y in Example (98) to correspondto the location l. The unspec loc-relation in ERG corresponds to the modalizer cf modin our analysis.
But whereas the unspec loc-relation is unrestricted and will representany directionality type or static, the modes in our analysis can be constrained by thelexicon and syntax to only represent a set of possible modes.
In this example the modewill be unambiguously co-final.
A more principal difference between ERG and ouranalysis is that ERG introduces two quite different analyses of the locative intransi-tive prepositions (adverbs), the one exemplified by Example (98) and the analysis inExample (83) of Example (9).
We ascribe the same type of analysis to Example (9) andExample (97).262J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locatives8.5.6 Consequences for Translation.
Our analysis, following Kracht, is meant to be uni-versal across different languages.
A locative expression always has the same formst/ci/cf/tr/ad(e, l) ?
?localizer relation?
(l, x).
Which parts of the sentence contibutewhich parts of this representation might vary across languages.
In a transfer-based MTsystem this means that the mode part will be interlingual, whereas the transfer ruleswill cater for the localizer.
In spirit, this is quite similar to the treatment of temporalprepositions in the LOGON system (Oepen et al 2004).
On the ERG analysis, there is noreason to expect such a parallelism between two languages.
What we have classifiedas an intransitive use of a locative preposition may be analyzed as either a simpleintersective adverb or as a noun combined with the unspec loc-relation in each of thetwo languages.
This yields four different types of transfer rules, and which rule type toinvoke for each word pair cannot be predicted without inspecting the relevant lexicalentries in the grammars for the two languages.Moreover, there is also a third type of analyses of intransitive uses of locatives inERG, where the locative introduces an adjective, the noun place (sted in Norwegian),and an implicit quantifier just like the lexicalized locative in Example (98).
But insteadof the unspec loc-rel, it introduces a full transitive preposition, like from or to.
This isillustrated by Example (100) which in the Norwegian LOGON grammar is analyzed asExample (101).
(100) Barnet gikk herfra.Child.DEF went here-from.
?The child went from here.?
(101) def(x, barn(x), def(y, sted(y) ?
her(e3, y), ga?
(e1, x) ?
fra(e2, e1, y)))(102) def(x, child(x), implicit q(y, place(y) ?
here(e3, y), go(e1, x) ?from(e2, e1, y)))In this case, such an analysis works well for transfer into English because it can bedirectly transferred into the representation for from here in Example (102).
If we exchangeherfra with hit, a similar analysis of Norwegian would exchange fra with til in Exam-ple (101).
The most natural translation into English would be The child went here, andone would need yet another transfer type.
Thus one might end up with nine differentpossible types of transfer relations between intransitive locative prepositions if bothlanguages allow for the three different types of analyses.8.6 NorGramNorGram is a computational Lexical Functional Grammar for Norwegian.
It has beenextended to produce MRSs, as part of the LOGON system (Oepen et al 2004).10 TheNorwegian MRSs are used as input to transfer into English MRSs.
NorGram follows thesame design principles for MRS constructions for locatives as ERG, but departs fromERG in the analysis of PP transitive prepositions.
If the NorGram analysis had been10 See http://www.emmtee.net for the LOGON project.263Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2applied to the English sentence in Example (7), we would get the analysis given inExample (103).
(103) some(x,mouse(x), def(y, table(y), appear(e1, x) ?
from(e2, e1, e3) ?under(e3,u, y)))On this analysis, the first preposition from is transitive, and it takes the PP under the table,or rather the event introduced by this preposition, as an argument.
In contrast to ERG,this analysis allows the last argument of a preposition like from to be an event, e3, as wellas an individual.
Comparing this to our analysis in Example (96) and observing that e3plays a similar role as intermediary here as the location l does in our analysis, we cansee some parallels, where from(e2, e1, e3) corresponds to ci mod(e1, l), and under(e3,u, y)corresponds to under loc(l, y).
Seen this way, the NorGram analysis of prepositions canbe thought of as relating the landmark, its ARG2, to both an LP as its ARG0, and an MPas its ARG1.
But the ARG0 and the ARG1 are never both used in the same analysis.
Thismeans that, technically, one could use the NorGram formalism as a surface representa-tion for these types of constructions and translate into our representation at a deeperlevel.
But such a translation would not be uniform; other correspondences would haveto be applied for other constructions.
Moreover, we think our representation is cleanerand conceptually clearer.
All the introduced variables get used, and have a naturalinterpretation in our analysis.
In particular, the variable connecting the two parts, l,is a location, whereas in the NorGram analysis, the connecting variable, is typed as anevent, and it is not clear what kind of denotation could be given to this event.9.
EvaluationBecause we have so far only made a pilot implementation of the analysis, it is notpossible to evaluate the grammar directly on a test corpus.
The evaluation will thereforeconsist of two parts.
First, a short corpus study of the LOGON Corpus, in order toexamine the relevance of an analysis of locatives; and second, a description of the mostimportant dimensions found in the data set, both as a summarization of our approachand as a brief comparison to ERG and Kracht, and also to construct a small test suite.9.1 A Short Corpus Study: The LOGON CorpusIn order to evaluate the relevance of our analysis of locatives, we have investigated thedistribution of prepositions in the LOGON Corpus.
This corpus was developed as partof the LOGON project, where semantic MRS-based transfer is combined with stochasticranking, translating texts from the hiking domain from Norwegian into English (Oepenet al 2004).11 The Norwegian part of the LOGON Corpus consists of 2,109 sentencesand 30,348 words.
There are 2?3 reference translations into English of the sentences,and ERG has been adopted to parse the English part.
In the Norwegian part, 15.4% ofthe word occurrences (4,667) are prepositions.
This number is slightly higher than inthe Oslo Corpus12 (13.6%), a balanced corpus of Norwegian texts.11 See http://www.emmtee.net for the LOGON project, and also http://www.hf.uio.no/tekstlab/prosjekter/tourist/index.htm for the corpus.12 http://www.tekstlab.uio.no/norsk/bokmaal/.264J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of LocativesWe have classified the prepositions as being locative or not, and find that about 50%of these (2,333) are locative.
Furthermore, we have classified a subset of about one fifthof the locative prepositions with respect to syntactic role.
We find that approximately50% are adverbial, approximately 30% are adnominal, and the rest occur in other typesof constructions, for example, predicative, or are difficult to classify.
This preliminarycorpus study indicates that our analysis of adverbial locatives are relevant for approxi-mately 25% of the prepositions occurring in the LOGON Corpus.9.2 Data DimensionsAs a basis for an evaluation of our analysis of locatives, we have gone through the datafound in (Kracht 2002) and the LOGON Corpus.
We present the most relevant dimen-sions herein, and compare them briefly to Kracht and ERG.
In addition to motivating ashort test suite for evaluation, this section is also intended to demonstrate the degree towhich we cover the same fragment as Kracht does.9.2.1 Adjunct Type.
Locatives as adjuncts are either adnominal or adverbial.
We analyzeadverbial locatives according to the five modes.
We do not cover adnominal locatives inour pilot implementation, and will therefore not include adnominal locatives in the testsuite.Kracht: Adverbial locatives are analyzed according to the fivemodes.
Adnominal staticlocatives are treated similarly to static adverbials, but denote entities and notevents.13ERG: All locatives in the lexicon are underspecified with respect to denotation type,and are constrained by unification with the modified element to either an entity(adnominal) or an event (adverbial).9.2.2 Directionality.
Directional locatives can (in the general case) modify directionalor motion verbs as in Example (t.2), but not static verbs as in Example (t.4).
Staticlocatives can modify both classes of verbs, as in Examples (t.1) and (t.3).
We specifyon the directional prepositions that they only modify directional verbs, whereas staticprepositions can modify all verbs.
(t.1) Musa l?p ved buret.The mouse ran by the cage.
(t.2) Musa l?p til buret.The mouse ran to the cage.
(t.3) Musa satt ved buret.The mouse sat by the cage.
(t.4) *Musa satt til buret.
*The mouse sat to the cage.Kracht: Four of the five modes are directional.
All modes denote events, but the fourdirectional modes predicate movement of an event participant, whereas the static13 Directional adnominal locatives are also discussed (Kracht 2002, pages 199?202), but not treated formally.265Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2mode locates the event itself.
Directional verbs are defined indirectly, in thatdirectional PPs only modify verbs denoting events that have an eligible mover.14ERG: Directional prepositions are a subtype of ordinary prepositions.
When selectedby a directional verb, the preposition is constrained to be of the directional sub-type.
But all locatives, directional or not, can modify all VPs; hence, for example,Example (t.4) is accepted.Note that the distinction between static and directional verbs is hard to make, andthat some verbs, for example, manner of motion verbs, can be coerced to a directionalreading when modified by an explicit directional locative as in Example (t.5).
Thedirectional reading is not available when modified by an ambiguous locative, however(Examples (t.6 and t.7)).
(t.5) Musa danset inn pa?
bordet.The mouse danced onto the table.
(t.6) Musa danset pa?st bordet.The mouse danced onst the table.
(t.7) *Musa danset pa?cf bordet.
*The mouse danced oncf the table.Also, this distinction is not only dependent on the inherent verb semantics, but alsoaffected by the nature of the construction, as in sentences like Example (104).
(104) John smiled his way into the room.9.2.3 Syntactic Role of the PP.
The PP may serve as either argument or adjunct.
This is atheoretical distinction, but we have argued that put-verbs serve as good candidates forverbs taking PP complements.
We have also argued that PP arguments may be analyzedas LPs, and that the complement of put-verbs are best interpreted as locations.
Put-verbsallow static and cofinal locatives, but not coinitial locatives.
Thus, we follow Kracht(2002) in that locatives are generally adjuncts, but may be selected as LPs under certaincircumstances.
This is shown in Examples (t.8) and (t.9), where the complement PP isanalyzed as an LP, and where both static and directional (cofinal) locatives are accepted.
(t.8) John la musa pa?st/cf bordet.John laid the mouse on/onto the table.
(t.9) *John la musa fra vinduet.
*John laid the mouse from the window.Kracht: Modificational PPs are adjuncts.
Only when the PP is a mandatory argument,or the selecting head enters a relationship with the LP or NP level of the PP, is thePP regarded an argument.ERG: A locative PP can be adjoined to any type of VP.
In addition, directional verbstake directional PPs as arguments.
PP arguments of put-verbs may be eitherdirectional or static, as described in Section 8.5.
No treatment of location denotingarguments.14 For details about this aspect we refer to the original article (Kracht 2002, pages 219?223).266J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locatives9.2.4 PP Transitivity.
Norwegian locative prepositions may select PPs (Example (t.10)),NPs (Example (t.11)), no complement (Example (t.12)) or alternate between no com-plement and PP selection (Example (t.13)).
As the alternating prepositions take optionalcomplements, they are ambiguous with respect to being the head of a complex PP orthe first of two separate PPs (Example (t.13)).
Furthermore, under in Example (t.13)is three-ways ambiguous with respect to mode (cf.
Section 4.2).
We also include analternating locative (Example (t.14)) where the succeeding PP is blocked from being anLP complement, because the latter PP is coinitial mode, whereas alternating locativesonly may select static PP complements as LPs.
(t.10) Musa kom fra under bordet.The mouse appeared from under the table.
(t.11) Musa l?p under bordet.The mouse ran under the table.
(t.12) Musa l?p inn.The mouse ran in.
(t.13) Musa l?p ned under bordet.The mouse ran down under the table.
(t.14) Musa l?p ned fra bordet.The mouse ran down from the table.Kracht: Discusses PP and NP transitive locatives.
PP transitive prepositions are treatedas pure modalizers, where the selected PP is an LP.
No treatment of intransitiveand alternating locatives.ERG: The analysis is discussed more in Section 8.5, where we gave examples of howERG handled the different constructions.
In particular, ERG does not distinguishbetween Examples (t.13) and (t.14) but ascribes the same number of analyses tothem.9.2.5 Lexical Ambiguity.
Locatives exhibit mode ambiguity; recall Example (t.11), whereunder has three possible modes as discussed in Section 1 and at the end of Section 4.2.The mode ambiguity may be resolved by the syntactic context, as we see in Exam-ple (t.15).
We underspecify the modes in the lexicon, and let the syntactic contextdisambiguate where possible.
(t.15) Musa satt under bordet.The mouse sat under the table.Kracht: Does not treat lexical ambiguity directly.ERG: Static/underspecified locatives are supertypes of directional locatives.
Locativesare constrained to be directional when selected by a directional verb.9.2.6 Test Suite.
Based on these dimensions, we have constructed a small test suite inorder to summarize and evaluate our approach.
The test suite is given in Table 2.We present the total number of syntactic and semantic analyses produced by ERG.For our grammar we present the number of syntactic analyses and two numbers for267Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2Table 2Test suite.Our Analyses Correct ERG AnalysesTest Syntactic Semantic Semantic Semantic Syntactic SemanticSentence (underspec.)
(total) Analyses(t.1) 1 1 1 1 2 1(t.2) 1 1 1 1 2 1(t.3) 1 1 1 1 1 1(t.4) 0 0 0 0 1 1(t.5) 0 0 0 1 1 1(t.6)a 1 1 1 1 1 1(t.7)b 0 0 0 0 0 0(t.8) 1 1 1 1 1 1(t.9) 0 0 0 0 0 0(t.10) 1 1 1 1 1 1(t.11) 1 1 3 3c 2 2(t.12) 1 1 1 1 1 1(t.13) 2 2 4 2 4 2(t.14) 1 1 1 1 4 2(t.15) 1 1 1 1 1 1a Only static readings are given in this row.b Only directional readings given in this row.c ERG does not distinguish between different directional modes.
Given ERG?s distinctions thecorrect number of analyses is 2.the semantic analyses.
The first is the number of different semantic representationsproduced by the system.
They may be underspecified with respect to mode.
The secondnumber is the number of specified semantic analyses these underspecified analysesrepresent.
We compare these to what we believe are the correct number of semanticanalyses for each test sentence.
We only include the analyses relevant to locatives fromERG, excluding analyses with non-locative interpretations of the PP, or where one of theprepositions in a complex locative PP is interpreted as a non-locative (e.g.
analyses ofunder as a degree specifier in Examples (t.10) and (t.13)).From the test suite, we see two problems for our analysis.
The first is the un-dergeneration for Example (t.5), as we do not cope with static verbs and directionalmodification.
This was discussed in Section 9.2.2.
The second problem we find in ouranalysis of Example (t.13).
For the readingwhere both locatives, ned and under bordet, areMPs, our analysis takes ned to be cofinal whereas under bordet is ascribed three differentmodalities.
We do not find good arguments for claiming that this sentence has morereadings than the cofinal+static reading besides the PP transitive reading where the twoPPs are jointly cofinal.
We have therefore indicated that the correct number of readingsis 2 in this example.
ERG gets a better result in this example because the directionalreading of under is only obtained when under heads a PP which is argument to adirectional verb.
Because a directional verb only takes one PP argument, that readingis not obtainable in this sentence.
On the other hand, ERG allows the PP from the tablein Example (t.14) to either modify down or the VP.
These two analyses result in twodifferent semantic representations, which we find hard to motivate.
Taking the correctsemantic analyses as our goal we see that our recall is 14/15 and our precision is 14/16,whereas ERG achieves a recall of 14/14 and a precision of 14/16.268J?rgensen and L?nning Minimal Recursion Semantic Analysis of Locatives10.
ConclusionWe have in this article described a treatment of locative prepositional phrases, whichon the one hand is compatible with a compositional formal semantics and on the otherhand is carried out in a framework for efficient computational grammars with an under-specified semantics.
We believe the main strengths of our approach are the following:1.
Uniformity: Our analysis provides a uniform analysis of locatives,resulting in the same form on the semantic analyses independent of theirsyntactic realization.2.
Simplicity:We underspecify both mode ambiguity and the two roles ofprepositions (as modificational or referential), by implementing theemptiness principle and claiming that any static preposition may serve asthe LP complement of modalizers like from.
Only modalizers need twolexical entries, all other locatives are encoded in a single lexical entry.3.
Denotational Soundness: All our representations have model-theoreticdenotations.
The interpretations are intuitively sound.
We do not have anyuninstantiated argument places.Compared to other state-of-the-art approaches, we are able to give a far moredetailed semantic analysis of the locative prepositions, and at the same time preservea simple surface representation of the complex semantics of locative prepositions.
Thiscan be used in a translation system where it will distinguish between the mode aspect,which should be preserved from one language to the other, and the lexicalized locativeexpression, which may vary more unsystematically between the two languages.AcknowledgmentsWe are grateful to our colleagues StephanOepen and Dan Flickinger for manyenlightening discussions, for helpwith the LKB system and ERG, andfor useful comments on the article.Needless to say, they do not agree withall we are saying and should not beheld responsible for any mistakes.
Weare also grateful to the editors of thespecial issue and to the reviewers fortheir helpful advice.ReferencesAlshawi, Hiyan, editor.
1992.
The CoreLanguage Engine.
The MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.Bender, Emily M., Dan Flickinger,and Stephan Oepen.
2002.
Thegrammar Matrix: An open-sourcestarter-kit for the rapid developmentof cross-linguistically consistentbroad-coverage precision grammars.In John Carroll, Nelleke Oostdijk, andRichard Sutcliffe, editors, Proceedingsof the Workshop on Grammar Engineeringand Evaluation at the 19th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,pages 8?14, Taiwan.Bierwisch, Manfred.
1988.
On the grammarof local prepositions.
In M. Bierwisch, W.Motsch, and I. Zimmermann, editors,Syntax, Semantix und Lexicon.
AkademieVerlag, Berlin, pages 1?65.Bloom, Paul, Mary A. Peterson, Lynn Nadel,and Merrill F. Garett, editors.
1996.Language and Space.
The MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.Buschbeck-Wolf, Bianka andRita Nu?bel.
1995.
Die behandlungu?bersetzungsambiger pra?positionen imtransfer des verbmobil-demonstrators.Technical Report 87, Verbmobil, IBM,Heidelberg, Germany.Copestake, Ann.
2002.
ImplementingTyped Feature Structure Grammars.CSLI Publications, Stanford, CA.Copestake, Ann, Daniel Flickinger,Carl Pollard, and Ivan A.
Sag.
2005.Minimal Recursion Semantics: Anintroduction.
Journal of Research onLanguage and Computation, 3(4):281?332.Copestake, Ann, Alex Lascarides, andDan Flickinger.
2001.
An algebra forsemantic construction in constraint-based269Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2grammars.
In Proceedings of the 39th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL 2001), pages 132?139,Toulouse.Creary, Lewis G., J.
Mark Gawron, and JohnNerbonne.
1989.
Reference to locations.
InProceedings of the ACL 1989, pages 42?50,Vancouver.Flickinger, Dan.
2002.
On building a moreefficient grammar by exploiting types.
InStephan Oepen, Dan Flickinger, Jun-ichiTsujii, and Hans Uszkoreit, editors,Collaborative Language Engineering.
A CaseStudy in Efficient Grammar-Based Processing,CSLI Lecture Notes.
CSLI Publications,Stanford, CA, pages 1?17.Fong, Vivienne.
1997.
The Order of Things:What Directional Locatives Denote.
Ph.D.thesis, Stanford University.Herskovits, Annette.
1986.
Language andSpatial Cognition.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, England.Hjelmslev, Louis.
1935.
La cate?gorie des cas.Acta Jutlandica, 7:1?184.Jackendoff, Ray.
1983.
Semantics andCognition.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Jackendoff, Ray.
1990.
Semantic Structures.The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.J?rgensen, Fredrik.
2004.
The SemanticRepresentation of Locatives in MachineTranslation.
Master?s thesis, Universityof Oslo.
Available at http://wo.uio.no/as/WebObjects/theses.woa/wa/these?WORKID=22120.Kracht, Marcus.
2002.
On the semantics oflocatives.
Linguistics and Philosophy,25:157?232.Kracht, Markus.
2006.
Directionalityselection.
In Patrick Saint-Dizier, editor,Syntax and Semantics of Prepositions,volume 29 of Text, Speech and LanguageTechnology.
Springer Netherlands,Dordrecht, pages 101?114.Levinson, S. C. 1996.
Frames of referenceand Molyneux?s question: Cross linguisticevidence.
In Paul Bloom, Mary A.Peterson, Lynn Nadel, and Merrill F.Garett, editors, Language and Space.The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA,pages 109?169.Oepen, Stephan, Helge Dyvik, Jan ToreL?nning, Erik Velldal, Dorothee Beermann,John Carroll, Dan Flickinger, Lars Hellan,Janne Bondi Johannessen, Paul Meurer,Torbj?rn Nordga?rd, and Victoria Rose?n.2004.
Som a?
kapp-ete med trollet?
TowardsMRS-based Norwegian?English MachineTranslation.
In Proceedings of the 10thInternational Conference on Theoretical andMethodological Issues in Machine Translation,pages 11?20, Baltimore, MD.Pollard, Carl and Ivan Sag.
1994.
Head-DrivenPhrase Structure Grammar.
University ofChicago Press, Chicago, IL.Saint-Dizier, Patrick, editor.
2006.
Syntax andSemantics of Prepositions, volume 29 of Text,Speech and Language Technology.
SpringerNetherlands, Dordrecht.Trujillo, Arturo.
1995.
Lexicalist MachineTranslation of Spatial Prepositions.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Cambridge.van der Zee, Emile and Jon Slack, editors.2003.
Representing Direction in Language andSpace.
Oxford University Press, Oxford.Zwarts, Joost.
1997.
Vectors as relativepositions: A compositional semanticsof modified PPs.
Journal of Semantics,14:57?86.Zwarts, Joost.
2003a.
Paths round aprototype.
In ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop: TheLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational Formalisms andApplications, pages 228?238, Toulouse.Zwarts, Joost.
2003b.
Vectors across spatialdomains: From place to size, orientation,shape, and parts.
In E. van der Zee andJ.
Slack, editors, Representing Direction inLanguage and Space.
Oxford UniversityPress, Oxford, pages 39?68.Zwarts, Joost.
2005.
Prepositional aspectand the algebra of paths.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, 28(6):739?779.Zwarts, Joost and Yoad Winter.
2000.Vector space semantics: a model-theoreticanalysis of locative prepositions.
Journal ofLogic, Language and Information, 9:169?211.270This article has been cited by:1.
Timothy Baldwin, Valia Kordoni, Aline Villavicencio.
2009.
Prepositions in Applications:A Survey and Introduction to the Special IssuePrepositions in Applications: A Survey andIntroduction to the Special Issue.
Computational Linguistics 35:2, 119-149.
[Citation] [PDF][PDF Plus]
