Last WordsNatural Language Processing andLinguistic FieldworkSteven Bird?University of MelbourneMarch 2009 marked an important milestone: the First International Conference onLanguage Documentation and Conservation, held at the University of Hawai?i.1 Thescale of the event was striking, with five parallel tracks running over three days.
Theorganizers coped magnificently with three times the expected participation (over 300).The buzz among the participants was that we were at the start of something big, thatwe were already part of a significant and growing community dedicated to supportingsmall languages together, the conference subtitle.The event was full of computation and linguistics, yet devoid of computational lin-guistics.
The language documentation community uses technology to process language,but is largely ignorant of the field of natural language processing.
I pondered what wehave to offer this community: ?Send us your 10 million words of Nahuatl-English bitextand we?ll do you a machine translation system!?
?Show us your Bambara WordNet andwe?ll use it to train a word sense disambiguation tool!?
?Write up the word-formationrules of Inuktitut in this arcane format and we?ll give you a morphological analyzer!?
Isthere not some more immediate contribution we could offer?Over the past 15 years, the field of computational linguistics has been revolution-ized by the ready availability of large corpora.
Landmark dates are the founding ofthe Linguistic Data Consortium (1992) and the first Workshop on Very Large Corpora(1993).
While the CL community has been pre-occupied with the new-found technicalcapabilities for collecting and processing large amounts of data, the field of linguisticshas been undergoing a revolution of its own.
It is also dominated with the use ofnew-found technical capabilities for collecting and processing large amounts of data.However, in this case, the data comes from languages that are facing extinction.Back in 1992, Michael Krauss, of the Alaska Native Language Center, issued theworld?s linguists with a wake-up call, calculating that ?at the rate things are going?the coming century will see either the death or the doom of 90 per cent of mankind?slanguages?
(Krauss 1992, page 7).
He exhorted linguists to document these languages?lest linguistics go down in history as the only science that presided obliviously overthe disappearance of 90 per cent of the very field to which it is dedicated?
(page 10).This message was delivered at the 15th International Congress of Linguists in Quebec,and also in Language, the journal of the Linguistic Society of America.2?
Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering, University of Melbourne, Victoria 3010,Australia.
E-mail: sb@csse.unimelb.edu.au.1 http://nflrc.hawaii.edu/icldc09/.2 The LSA has posted an FAQ containing an accessible description of the problem and its scale athttp://www.lsadc.org/info/ling-faqs-endanger.cfm.?
2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 3Today, endangered language documentation is part of mainstream linguistics, sup-ported with several book-length treatments of the subject,3 the online journal LanguageDocumentation and Conservation,4 numerous graduate courses, and funding programs inmany countries.
Here is the description of the U.S. NSF/NEH program, DocumentingEndangered Languages, emphases added:5This multi-year funding partnership between the National Science Foundation (NSF)and the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) supports projects to developand advance knowledge concerning endangered human languages.
Made urgent bythe imminent death of an estimated half of the 6000?7000 currently used humanlanguages, this effort aims also to exploit advances in information technology.
Funding willsupport fieldwork and other activities relevant to recording, documenting, andarchiving endangered languages, including the preparation of lexicons, grammars, textsamples, and databases.
Funding will be available in the form of one- to three-yearproject grants as well as fellowships for up to twelve months.
At least half the availablefunding will be awarded to projects involving fieldwork.What does computational linguistics offer to a community that is exploiting advancesin information technology for projects involving linguistic fieldwork with endangeredlanguages?The genesis of the field of computational linguistics out of the field ofmachine trans-lation is well-known; this journal had a previous existence under the title MechanicalTranslation and Computational Linguistics.
The relationship between CL and MT over thepast half-century has just come full circle: In March 2009 the ACL Executive Committeeaccepted a proposal for a newACL Special Interest Group inMachine Translation.
Therecan be no doubt that the multilingual information society is driving many importantchallenges in our discipline.
However, relatively few languages have the necessaryresources to participate.Over the same half-century another strand of research has sought to use compu-tational techniques to support linguistic fieldwork.
For example, Joseph Grimes?ACLVice President (1975)?has devoted much of his long career to studies at the interfacebetween computational linguistics and linguistic fieldwork.6 His NSF project with GarySimons, called Language Variation and Limits to Communication (Cornell University, 1976?1978), involved building a suitcase-sized ?portable?
computer and lugging it aroundthe Pacific to capture and analyze wordlists.
Two decades later, my own fieldwork ontone languages of Cameroon involved a laptop computer powered by a car battery, andled to a series of ?Grassfields Bantu Fieldwork?
corpora published by the LDC.
Whilethe technology had improved, the modus operandi was the same: Take technology to aremote field location and bring back data, and do enough linguistic analysis in the fieldto ensure that the right variety and quality of data is being collected.As if this were not challenging enough, the subsequent curation of the data isfraught with technical difficulties.
It?s easy to generate ?endangered data?
when for-mats, encodings, and media are so quickly obsolete (Bird and Simons 2003).
Existingfieldwork tools use incompatible formats, and it is often necessary to convert databetween the native formats of various tools.
The experience of writing 10k lines of3 Crystal 2000; Fishman 2001; Gippert, Himmelmann, and Mosel 2006; Grenoble and Whaley 2006;Harrison 2007.4 http://nflrc.hawaii.edu/ldc/.5 http://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub summ.jsp?ods key=nsf06577.6 For example, Grimes (1968), http://www.ethnologue.com/show author.asp?auth=2961.470Bird Natural Language Processing and Linguistic FieldworkFigure 1Tone data from Bamileke Dschang, a Grassfields Bantu language of Cameroon.Perl scripts for manipulating fieldwork data in Cameroon was the backdrop to thedevelopment of the Natural Language Toolkit.7 Clearly, with enough effort we can usecomputational techniques to represent and manipulate linguistic field data.
Is theremore we can offer?For example, consider the tone language data in Figure 1.
It represents a slicethrough part of an 8-dimensional tone paradigm containing 1,350 cells (Bird 2003).
Theaddress of each cell in this data cube is just a vector specifying properties like tense,mood, noun class, and lexical tones.
The content of each cell is just a vector specifying asurface tone pattern using abstract pitch numbers, like 31144442.
What structure couldNLP techniques discover in this data?
Could such analysis take place early enough toguide the data collection work?For a long time, fieldwork has been regarded as a style of elicitation and analysis thatinvolves an exotic language, an extended period, and an extreme location (cf.
Hyman[2001]).
In contrast, a new, cyber-fieldworkmay be on the rise, in which the data is what-ever one wants to treat as data, and where the ?fieldworker?
elicits data via Skype, byinterrogating a sound archive, or by analyzing linguistic materials found on YouTube.However, it is hard to find cases of fieldwork that fit these stereotypes of purism andpragmatism, or what detractors might label paternalism and postmodernism.
Thank-fully, the real situation is more interesting.
Regardless of location, language, and modeof elicitation, linguistic fieldworkers are usually immersing themselves in data, in closecontact with a speech community.
This may happen in the ancestral location or amonga well-organized diaspora of speakers.
In places where the Internet is reaching intoremote places, scattered speakers of endangered languages are able to form onlinecommunities,8 and in time this may provide another context for elicitation.Linguistic fieldworkers are often pushing the limits of current theoretical machin-ery, while simultaneously experiencing the bleeding edge of digital recording andannotation technology.
In the midst of this, they are eliciting and exploring a substantialquantity of primary data, wheremany of the descriptive categories are simply unknownor subject to revision.
Theymay be transcribing speech when there is no existing writingsystem and when we don?t know which sound contrasts are significant.
They might beguessing word breaks and testing hunches about what particular morphemes mean.They could be puzzling over apparent inconsistencies in data from different speakers.7 http://www.nltk.org/.
See especially Bird, Klein, and Loper (2009, ch.
11).8 For example, http://www.firstvoices.com/.471Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 3When the data is not systematized, when there is no established body of knowledgeabout the language, when many analytical options are available, and when everyconclusion is open to question, the task becomes one of managing uncertainty?andin the meantime, avoiding an existential crisis.
(It?s hard for a field linguist to explain this ?fieldwork state of mind?
to a computerscientist.
What comes closest is the experience of debugging someone else?s program.An undergraduate computing laboratory is ripe with ?freely occurring programs,?
eachone arising from a different?sometimes unrecognizable?view of a specified problem.To help someone fix their program requires that you briefly enter their world, andalign your conceptual model of the problem with theirs, and point the way forward.However, this is made more difficult by the fact that you must puzzle over their codeand their verbal statements, both of which may contain subtle errors.
Now, scale up thisexperience from minutes to months!
)Migrating early pen-and-paper fieldwork onto computer is difficult, and probablyfruitless.
The technology gets in the way of the elicitation, and pre-occupation withsystematizating the data prevents us from noticing the patterns: ?premature mathema-tization keeps Nature?s surprises hidden?
(Lenat and Feigenbaum 1987, page 1177).It?s probably best not to bother with linguistic software in the early stages of linguisticdescription.However, things change once the descriptive notation has stabilized, and a ?lin-guistic exploration?
workflow is established.
The discovery of a newword in a text mayrequire an update to the lexicon and the construction of a new paradigm (e.g., in order tocorrectly classify the word).
Such updates may occasion the creation of some field notes,the extension of a descriptive report, and possibly even the revision of the manuscriptfor an analytical paper.
Progress on description and analysis gives fresh insights abouthow to organize existing data and it informs the quest for new data.
Whether one issorting data, or generating helpful tabulations, or gathering statistics, or searching fora (counter-)example, or verifying the transcriptions used in a manuscript, the principalchallenge is computational.Documenting and describing endangered languages presents computational lin-guistics with some difficult challenges.
The most immediate challenge concerns lin-guistic data management: representing structured annotations such as interlinear text,supporting collaborative annotation, handling uncertain data, validating structure,tracking data provenance, combining human and automatic methods, and so forth.
NLPtechniquesmay enter the picture in unexpectedways.
For instance, most documentationprojects collect wordlists, and these typically evolve into full-fledged lexicons overtime.
The organization of fields within an entry is often inconsistent, yet we can recog-nize the structure using standard robust parsing techniques, then transform the datainto a consistent structure, potentially saving months of manual effort in the process.Once the data has some basic level of organization, the next challenge is one ofsimultaneously downscaling and upscaling.
First, we need new techniques that work onsmall data sets (downscaling), with the consequence that fewer resources are spent ondata collection, while permitting many more languages to be analyzed in the sametimeframe (upscaling).
What methods do we have that can detect structure in small,noisy data sets, while being directly applicable to a wide variety of languages?
Thisrepresents uncharted territory for NLP.99 See (Palmer et al 2009) for a promising pilot study.472Bird Natural Language Processing and Linguistic FieldworkThis dual perspective applies to the data collection work itself.
If we have just oneweek in a location where a language is spoken, to collect all the data we will everhave for this language, what will we do?
I write this on the eve of a one-week visitto the Usarufa language area in the Eastern Highlands of Papua NewGuinea, under theauspices of SIL.
The language has about 1,000 speakers, and is no longer being learnedby children.
We will give out digital voice recorders to have people record linguisticinteractions, narratives, and songs.
Later, we will meet in a classroom where otherswill augment these recordings with voice annotations, phrase by phrase, providinga careful speech version along with translation into Tok Pisin, the language of widercommunication.
A handful of speakers who are literate in the language will transcribea small portion of the collection.
The resulting corpus, it is hoped, will be adequateto support future analysis and revitalization work.
If it is possible to collect a usefulcorpus in the space of a week (downscaling) then it will also be possible to applysuch methods to many other languages (upscaling).
In this way, limited resources aredeployed efficiently in a breadth-first approach to language documentation.Apart from technical challenges, there is also an important sociological challengeto create maximally interoperable language analysis software.
To imagine this can bedone simply by adopting common file formats, or by operating an in-house softwaredevelopment lifecycle using project funds, or by invoking the XML family of buzzwordsis to misunderstand the nature of the problem.
Instead, we need to foster new researchcollaborations involving computational linguists and field linguists, leading to newunderstanding about how to collect and analyze corpora of data from endangeredlanguages.
We need to nurture a community to share in the development of tools,formats, interfaces, data repositories, query systems, machine learning techniques, visu-alization methods, and so forth.
We need to collaborate on a global federated databaseof language data, permitting Web-based collaborative annotation of primary linguisticdata, continuously expandible and fully exportable for local processing.10 Everythingshould be available under open source and open content licenses, fostering a Web-scaleecosystem in which geographically distributed computational linguists, field linguists,and the speakers of endangered languages themselves are united in their efforts todocument and describe the world?s languages.We live during a brief period of overlap between the mass extinction of the world?slanguages and the advent of the digital age.
What can we do?as individuals and asa professional association?as we wake up to this global linguistic crisis?
Recently, wehave seen that national bureaucracies have been able to take unprecedented steps inthe face of the global economic crisis; are we less agile?
If the economic motivation forlanguage technology research has lost some of its luster, what do we have to lose?So, shall we eke out an incremental existence, parasitic on linguistic theories, lan-guage corpora, and machine learning algorithms developed by others?
Are we contentto tweak parameters and deliver results that are surpassed at next year?s meeting, whileimportant sources of new data are falling silent?
It?s time that we focused some of ourefforts on a new kind of computational linguistics, one that accelerates the documenta-tion and description of the world?s endangered linguistic heritage, and delivers tangibleand intangible value to future generations.
Who knows, we may even postpone the daywhen these languages utter their last words.10 The Open Language Archives Community (http://language-archives.org), the World Atlas ofLanguage Structures (http://wals.info), and the Rosetta Project (http://rosettaproject.org)represent significant early steps in this direction.473Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 3ReferencesBird, Steven, editor.
2003.
Grassfields BantuFieldwork: Dschang Tone Paradigms.Linguistic Data Consortium.
LDC2003S02,ISBN 1-58563-254-6.Bird, Steven, Ewan Klein, and Edward Loper.2009.
Natural Language Processing withPython.
O?Reilly Media, Sebastopol, CA.http://www.nltk.org/book.Bird, Steven and Gary Simons.
2003.
Sevendimensions of portability for languagedocumentation and description.
Language,79:557?582.Crystal, David.
2000.
Language Death.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,UK.Fishman, Joshua A., editor.
2001.
CanThreatened Languages be Saved?
: ReversingLanguage Shift, Revisited: A 21st CenturyPerspective.
Multilingual Matters,Clevedon, UK.Gippert, Jost, Nikolaus Himmelmann, andUlrike Mosel, editors.
2006.
Essentials ofLanguage Documentation.
Mouton deGruyter, Berlin and New York.Grenoble, Lenore and Lindsay Whaley.
2006.Saving Languages: An Introduction toLanguage Revitalization.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, UK.Grimes, Joseph E. 1968.
Computer backupfor field work in phonology.MechanicalTranslation and Computational Linguistics,11:73?74.Harrison, K. David.
2007.When LanguagesDie: The Extinction of the World?s Languagesand the Erosion of Human Knowledge.Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, UK, pages 15?33.Hyman, Larry M. 2001.
Fieldwork as astate of mind.
In Paul Newman andMartha Ratliff, editors, LinguisticFieldwork.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, UK.Krauss, Michael E. 1992.
The world?slanguages in crisis.
Language, 68:4?10.Lenat, Douglas B. and Edward A.Feigenbaum.
1987.
On the thresholdsof knowledge.
In Proceedings ofthe 10th International Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence,pages 1173?1182.Palmer, Alexis, Taesun Moon, and JasonBaldridge.
2009.
Evaluating automationstrategies in language documentation.In Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2009Workshops on Active Learning for NaturalLanguage Processing, pages 36?44,Boulder, CO.474
