Prepositions in Applications: A Survey andIntroduction to the Special IssueTimothy BaldwinUniversity of Melbourne, AustraliaValia KordoniDFKI GmbH and Saarland University,GermanyAline VillavicencioFederal University of Rio Grande do Sul,Brazil, and University of Bath, UK1.
IntroductionPrepositions1?as well as prepositional phrases (PPs) and markers of various sorts?have a mixed history in computational linguistics (CL), as well as related fields such asartificial intelligence, information retrieval (IR), and computational psycholinguistics:On the one hand they have been championed as being vital to precise language un-derstanding (e.g., in information extraction), and on the other they have been ignoredon the grounds of being syntactically promiscuous and semantically vacuous, andrelegated to the ignominious rank of ?stop word?
(e.g., in text classification and IR).Although NLP in general has benefitted from advances in those areas where prepo-sitions have received attention, there are still many issues to be addressed.
For example,in machine translation, generating a preposition (or ?case marker?
in languages suchas Japanese) incorrectly in the target language can lead to critical semantic divergencesover the source language string.
Equivalently in information retrieval and informationextraction, it would seem desirable to be able to predict that book on NLP and book aboutNLPmean largely the same thing, but paranoid about drugs and paranoid on drugs suggestvery different things.Prepositions are often among the most frequent words in a language.
For example,based on the British National Corpus (BNC; Burnard 2000), four out of the top-tenmost-frequent words in English are prepositions (of, to, in, and for).
In terms of bothparsing and generation, therefore, accurate models of preposition usage are essential toavoid repeatedly making errors.
Despite their frequency, however, they are notoriouslydifficult to master, even for humans (Chodorow, Tetreault, and Han 2007).
For example,Lindstromberg (2001) estimates that less than 10% of upper-level English as a Second1 Our discussion will focus primarily on prepositions in English, but many of the comments we makeapply equally to adpositions (prepositions and postpositions) and case markers in various languages.
Fordefinitions and general discussion of prepositions in English and other languages, we refer the reader toLindstromberg (1998), Huddleston and Pullum (2002), and Che?liz (2002), inter alia.Submission received: 9 December 2008; revised submission received: 17 January 2009; accepted forpublication: 17 January 2009.?
2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2Language (ESL) students can use and understand prepositions correctly, and Izumi et al(2003) reported error rates of English preposition usage by Japanese speakers of upto 10%.The purpose of this special issue is to showcase recent research on prepositionsacross the spectrum of computational linguistics, focusing on computational syntax andsemantics.
More importantly, however, we hope to reignite interest in the systematictreatment of prepositions in applications.
To this end, this article is intended to presenta cross-section view of research on prepositions and their use in NLP applications.
Webegin by outlining the syntax of prepositions and its relevance to NLP applications,focusing on PP attachment and prepositions in multiword expressions (Section 2).
Next,we discuss formal and lexical semantic aspects of prepositions, and again their rele-vance to NLP applications (Section 3), and describe instances of applied research whereprepositions have featured prominently (Section 4).
Finally, we outline the contributionsof the papers included in this special issue (Section 5) and conclude with a discussion ofresearch areas relevant to prepositions which we believe are ripe for further exploration(Section 6).2.
SyntaxThere has been a tendency for prepositions to be largely ignored in the area of syntacticresearch as ?an annoying little surface peculiarity?
(Jackendoff 1973, page 345).
In com-putational terms, the two most important syntactic considerations with prepositionsare: (1) selection (Fillmore 1968; Bennett 1975; Tseng 2000; Kracht 2003), and (2) valence(Huddleston and Pullum 2002).Selection is the property of a preposition being subcategorized/specified by thegovernor (usually a verb) as part of its argument structure.
An example of a selectedpreposition is with in dispense with introductions, where introductions is the object of theverb dispense, butmust be realized in a prepositional phrase headed bywith (c.f.
*dispenseintroductions).
Conventionally, selected prepositions are specified uniquely (e.g., dispensewith) or as well-defined clusters (e.g., chuckle over/at), and have bleached semantics.Selected prepositions contrast with unselected prepositions, which do not form partof the argument structure of a governor and do have semantic import (e.g., live inJapan).
Unsurprisingly, there is not a strict dichotomy between selected and unselectedprepositions (Tseng 2000).
For example, in the case of rely on Kim, on is specified inthe argument structure of rely but preserves its directional semantics; similarly, in put itdown , put requires a locative adjunct (c.f.
*put it) but is entirely agnostic as to its identity,and the preposition is semantically transparent.Preposition selection is important in any NLP application that operates at thesyntax?semantics interface, that is, that overtly translates surface strings onto semanticrepresentations, or vice versa (e.g., information extraction or machine translation usingsome form of interlingua).
It forms a core component of subcategorization learning(Manning 1993; Briscoe and Carroll 1997; Korhonen 2002), and poses considerable chal-lenges when developing language resources with syntactico-semantic mark-up (Kipper,Snyder, and Palmer 2004).Prepositions can occur with either intransitive or transitive valence.
Intransitiveprepositions (often referred to as ?particles?)
are valence-saturated, and as such do nottake arguments.
They occur most commonly as: (a) components of larger multiwordexpressions (e.g., verb particle constructions, such as pick it up), (b) copular predicates(e.g., the doctor is in), or (c) prenominal modifiers (e.g., an off day).
Transitive prepositions,120Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in Applicationson the other hand, select for (usually noun phrase) complements to form PPs (e.g., athome).
The bare term ?preposition?
traditionally refers to a transitive preposition, but inthis article is used as a catch-all for prepositions of all valences.Preposition valence has received relatively little direct exposure in the NLP liter-ature but has been a latent feature of all work on part of speech (POS) tagging andparsing over the Penn Treebank (Marcus, Santorini, and Marcinkiewicz 1993), as thePenn POS tagset distinguishes between transitive prepositions (IN), selected intransitiveprepositions (RP), and unselected intransitive prepositions (RB, along with a range ofother adverbials).2 There have been only isolated cases of research where a dedicatedapproach has been used to distinguish between these three sub-usages, in the interestsof optimizing overall POS tagging or parsing performance (Shaked 1993; Toutanova andManning 2000; Klein and Manning 2003; MacKinlay and Baldwin 2005).Two large areas of research on the syntactic aspects of prepositions are (a) PP-attachment and (b) prepositions in multiword expressions, which are discussed in thefollowing sections.
Although this article will focus largely on the syntax of preposi-tions in English, prepositions in other languages naturally have their own challenges.Notable examples which have been the target of research in computational linguisticsare adpositions in Estonian (Muischnek, Mu?u?risep, and Puolakainen 2005), adpositionsin Finnish (Lestrade 2006), short and long prepositions in Polish (Tseng 2004), and theFrench a` and de (Abeille?
et al 2003).2.1 PP AttachmentPP attachment is the task of finding the governor for a given PP.
For example, in thefollowing sentence:(1) Kim eats pizza with chopsticksthere is syntactic ambiguity, with the PP with chopsticks being governed by either thenoun pizza (i.e., as part of the NP pizza with chopsticks, as indicated in Example (2)), orthe verb eats (i.e., as a modifier of the verb, as indicated in Example (3)).
(2) SNPNKimVPVeatsNPNpizzaPPPwithNPNchopsticks2 It also includes the enigmatic TO tag, which is exclusively used for occurrences of to, over all infinitive,transitive preposition, and intransitive preposition usages.121Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2(3) SNPNKimVPVeatsNPNpizzaPPPwithNPNchopsticksOf these, the latter case of verb attachment (i.e., Example (3)) is, of course, the correctanalysis.Naturally the number of PP contexts with attachment ambiguity is theoreticallyunbounded.
One special case of note is a sequence of PPs such as Kim eats pizzawith chopsticks on Wednesdays at Papa Gino?s, where the number of discrete analyses for asequence of n PPs is defined by the corresponding Catalan number Cn (Church and Patil1982).
The bulk of PP attachment research, however, has focused exclusively on the caseof a single PP occurring immediately after anNP, which in turn is immediately precededby a verb.
As such, wewill focus our discussion predominantly on this syntactic context.To simplify discussion, we will refer to the verb as v, the head noun of the immediatelyproceeding NP as n1, the preposition as p, and the head noun of the NP object ofthe preposition as n2.
Returning to our earlier example, the corresponding 4-tuple is?eatv, pizzan1 ,withp, chopsticksn2?.The high degree of interest in PP attachment stems from it being a common phe-nomenon when parsing languages such as English, and hence a major cause of parsererrors (Lin 2003).
As such, it has implications for any task requiring full syntacticanalysis or a notion of constituency, such as prosodic phrasing (van Herwijnen et al2003).
Languages other than English with PP attachment ambiguity which have beenthe target of research include Dutch (van Herwijnen et al 2003), French (Gaussier andCancedda 2001; Gala and Lafourcade 2005), German (Hartrumpf 1999; Volk 2001, 2003;Foth and Menzel 2006), Spanish (Calvo, Gelbukh, and Kilgarriff 2005), and Swedish(Kokkinakis 2000; Aasa 2004; Volk 2006).PP attachment research has undergone a number of significant paradigm shifts overthe course of the last three decades, and been the target of interest of theoretical syntax,AI, psycholinguistics, statistical NLP, and statistical parsing.Early research on PP attachment focused on the development of heuristics intendedto model human processing strategies, based on analysis of the competing parse treesindependent of lexical or discourse context (Frazier 1979; Schu?tze 1995).
For example,Minimal Attachment was the strategy of choosing the attachment site which ?mini-mizes?
the parse tree, as calculated by its node membership; assuming the parse treesprovided for Example (1), this would be unable to disambiguate between Examples (2)and (3) as they both contain the same number of nodes.
Late Attachment, on the otherhand, was the strategy of attaching ?low?
in the parse tree, corresponding to Exam-ple (2).
Ford, Bresnan, and Kaplan (1982) proposed an alternative heuristic strategy,based on the existence of p in a subcategorization frame for v. In later research, Pereira(1985) described amethod for incorporating Right Association andMinimal Attachment122Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in Applicationsinto a shift-reduce parser, and Whittemore and Ferrara (1990) developed a rule-basedalgorithm to combine various attachment preferences on the basis of empirical evalua-tion of the predictive power of each.Syntactic preferences were of course a blunt instrument in dealing with PP attach-ment, and largely ineffectual in predicting the difference in PP attachment betweenKim eats pizza with chopsticks (verb attachment) and Kim eats pizza with anchovies (nounattachment), for example.
This led to a shift away from syntactic methods in the 1980stowards AI-inspired techniques which used world knowledge to resolve PP attachmentambiguity.
In the case of Example (1), for example, the knowledge that chopsticks arean eating implement would suggest a preference for verb attachment, and similarly theknowledge that they are not a foodstuff would suggest a dispreference for noun attach-ment.
Wilks, Huang, and Fass (1985) attempted to capture this type of world knowledgeusing hand-coded ?preferential semantics?
of each of v, n1, p, and n2.
Dahlgren andMcDowell (1986) simplified this analysis to use only p and n2, still in the form ofhand-coded rules.
Hirst (1987) used his model of ?commonsense semantics?
to resolvePP attachment ambiguity, based on verb-guided preferences (i.e., valence propertiesof the verb) and plausibility relative to a knowledge base.
In this same vein, Jensenand Binot (1987) used the dictionary definitions of v and n2 as a ?knowledge base?
toresolve PP attachment based on approximate reasoning, for example, by determiningthat chopsticks is an instrument which is compatible with eat.In parallel, in the area of psycholinguistics, Altmann and Steedman (1988) providedexperimental evidence to suggest that PP attachment resolution interacts dynamicallywith discourse context, and that ambiguity is resolved on the basis of the interdepen-dence between structure and the mental representation of that context.
This suggestedthat computational research on PP attachment resolution needed to take into accountthe discourse context, in addition to syntax and world knowledge.
Spivey-Knowltonand Sedivy (1995) later used psycholinguistic experiments to demonstrate that verb-specific attachment properties and NP definiteness both play important roles in thehuman processing of PP attachment.
Importantly, this workmotivated the need for verbclasses to resolve PP attachment ambiguity.The next significant shift in NLP research on PP attachment was brought about byHindle and Rooth (1993), who were the harbingers of statistical NLP and large-scaleempirical evaluation.
Hindle and Rooth challenged the prevailing view at the time thatlexical semantics and/or discourse modeling were needed to resolve PP attachment, inproposing a distributional approach, based simply on estimation of the probability ofp attaching high or low given v and n1 (ignoring n2).
The method uses unambiguouscases of PP attachment (e.g., cases of n1 being a pronoun [high attachment], or the PPpost-modifying n1 in subject position [low attachment]) to derive smoothed estimatesof Prhigh(p|v), Prhigh(NULL|n) (i.e., the probability of n not being post-modified bya PP), and Prlow(p|n), which then form the basis of Prhigh(p|v, n) and Prlow(p|v, n),respectively.
The proposedmethodwas significant in demonstrating the effectiveness ofsimple co-occurrence probabilities, without explicit semantics or discourse processing,and also in its ability to operate without explicitly annotated training data.Resnik and Hearst (1993) observed that PP attachment preferences are also condi-tioned on the semantics of the noun object of the preposition in the PP, as can be seenin our earlier example of Kim eats pizza with chopsticks/anchovies where chopsticks leadsto verb attachment and anchovies to noun attachment.
Although they were unable tocome up with a model which was empirically superior to existing methods which didnot represent the semantics of the noun object, this paved the way for a new wave ofresearch using the full 4-tuple of ?v, n1, p, n2?.123Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2The first to successfully apply the full 4-tuple were Ratnaparkhi, Reynar, andRoukos (1994), who in the process established a benchmark PP attachment data setupon which most of the subsequent research has been based.
The data set, colloquiallyknown as the ?RRR?
data set, was automatically extracted from the Wall Street Journalsection of the Penn Treebank, and is made up of 20,801 training and 3,097 test 4-tuplesof type ?v, n1, p, n2?, each of which is annotated with a binary label for verb or nounattachment.3 Also of significance was the fact that Ratnaparkhi, Reynar, and Roukoswere able to come up with a ?class?
representation for words, based on distributionalsimilarity, that outperformed a simple word-based model.The general framework established by Ratnaparkhi, Reynar, and Roukos (1994),and the RRR data set, defined the task of PP attachment for over a decade.
It has beentackled using a variety of smoothing methods andmachine learning algorithms, includ-ing backed-off estimation (Collins and Brooks 1995), instance-based learning (Zavrel,Daelemans, and Veenstra 1997; Zhao and Lin 2004), log-linear models (Franz 1996),maximum entropy learning (Ratnaparkhi, Reynar, and Roukos 1994), decision trees(Merlo, Crocker, and Berthouzoz 1997), neural networks (Sopena, Lloberas, andMoliner1998; Alegre, Sopena, and Lloberas 1999), and boosting (Abney, Schapire, and Singer1999).
In addition to the four lexical and class-based features provided by the 4-tuple?v, n1, p, n2?, researchers have used noun definiteness, distributional similarity, nounnumber, subcategorization categories, word proximity in corpus data, and PP semanticclass (Stetina and Nagao 1997; Yeh and Vilain 1998; Pantel and Lin 2000; Volk 2002).
Theempirical benchmark for the data set was achieved by Stetina and Nagao (1997), whoused WordNet (Fellbaum 1998) to explicitly model verb and noun semantics.In a novel approach to the task, Schwartz, Aikawa, and Quirk (2003) observed thatJapanese translations of English verb and noun attachment involve distinct construc-tions.
This allowed them to automatically identify instances of PP attachment ambiguityin a parallel English?Japanese corpus, complete with attachment information.
Theyused this data to disambiguate PP attachment in English inputs, and demonstrated that,the quality of English?Japanese machine translation improved significantly as a result.More recently, Atterer and Schu?tze (2007) challenged the real-world utility of meth-ods based on the RRR data set, on the grounds that it is based on the availability of agold-standard parse tree for a given input.
They proposed that, instead, PP attachmentbe evaluated as a means of post-processing over the raw output of an actual parser,and produced results to indicate: (a) that a state-of-the-art parser (Bikel 2004) doesremarkably well at PP attachment without a dedicated PP attachment module; butalso (b) that post-processing based on a range of methods developed over the RRRdata set (Collins and Brooks 1995; Toutanova, Manning, and Ng 2004; Olteanu andMoldovan 2005) generally improves parser accuracy.
In addition, they developed avariant of the RRR data set (RRR-sent) which contains full sentential contexts of possiblePP attachment ambiguity.
Others who have successfully built PP re-attachment modelsfor specific parsers are Olteanu (2004) and Foth and Menzel (2006).
Agirre, Baldwin,and Martinez (2008) used the evaluation methodology of Atterer and Schu?tze (2007) toconfirm the finding from the original RRR data set that lexical semantics (in variousguises) can enhance PP attachment accuracy relative to a baseline parser.
As part of thiseffort, they developed a standardized data set for exploration of the interaction betweenlexical semantics and parsing/PP attachment accuracy.3 Because it was automatically extracted, the RRR data set is notoriously noisy.
For instance, Pantel andLin (2000) observed that 133 tuples contain the as either n1 or n2.124Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in ApplicationsOne significant variation on the classic binary PP attachment task which attemptsto generate a richer semantic characterisation of the PP is the work of Merlo (2003) andMerlo and Esteve Ferrer (2006), who included classification of the PP as an argumentor adjunct, making for a four-way classification task.
In this context, they found thatPP attachment resolution for argument PPs is considerably easier than is the case foradjunct PPs.Returning to our observation that PP attachment can occur in multiple syntacticconfigurations, Merlo, Crocker, and Berthouzoz (1997) applied backed-off estimationto the problem of multiple PP attachment, in the form of 14 discrete syntactic config-urations.
Unsurprisingly, they found the task considerably harder than the basic V NPPP case, due to increased ambiguity and data sparseness.
Mitchell (2004) similarly per-formed an extensive analysis of the Penn Treebank to investigate the different contextsPP attachment ambiguities occur in, and the relative ability of different PP attachmentmethods to disambiguate each.There have also been domain-specific methods proposed for PP attachment, forexample, in the area of biomedicine (Hahn, Romacker, and Schulz 2002; Pustejovskyet al 2002; Leroy, Chen, and Martinez 2003; Schuman and Bergler 2006).2.2 The Syntax of Prepositional Multiword ExpressionsPrepositions are also often found as part of multiword expressions (MWEs), such asverb-particle constructions (break down), prepositional verbs (rely on), determinerlessPPs (in hospital), complex prepositions (by means of ) and compound nominals (affairsof state).
MWEs are lexical items which are composed of more than one word and arelexically, syntactically, semantically, pragmatically, and/or statistically idiosyncratic insome way (Sag et al 2002).
In this section, we present a brief overview of the syntaxof the key prepositional MWEs in English, and discuss a cross-section of some of therecent research done in the area.Prepositional MWEs span the full spectrum of morphosyntactic variation.
Somecomplex prepositions undergo no inflection, internal modification, or word order vari-ation (e.g., in addition to) and are best analyzed as ?words with spaces?
(Sag et al2002).
Others optionally allow internal modification (e.g., with [due/particular/special/...]regard to) or determiner insertion (e.g., on [the] top of ) and are considered to be semi-fixed expressions (Villada Moiro?n 2005).
Compound nominals are similarly semi-fixedexpressions, in that they have rigid constraints on word order and lexical composition,but allow morphological inflection (e.g., part(s) of speech).The three prepositional MWE types that cause the greatest syntactic problems inEnglish, in terms of their relative frequency and tendency for syntactic variation, are:1. verb-particle constructions (VPCs), where the verb selects for anintransitive preposition (e.g., chicken out or hand in: Dehe?
et al [2002]);2. prepositional verbs (PVs), where the verb selects for a transitivepreposition (e.g., rely on or refer to: Huddleston and Pullum [2002]);3. determinerless PPs (PP?Ds), where a PP is made up of a preposition andsingular noun without a determiner (e.g., at school, off screen: Baldwin et al[2006]).All three MWE types undergo limited syntactic variation (Sag et al 2002).
For exam-ple, transitive verb particle constructions generally undergo the particle alternation,125Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2whereby the particle may occur either adjacent to the verb (e.g., tear up the letter), orbe separated from the verb by the NP complement (e.g., tear the letter up).
Some VPCsreadily occur with both orders (like tear up), while others have a strong preference fora particular order (e.g., take off?under the interpretation of having the day off?tendsto occur in the particle-final configuration in usages such as take Friday off vs. ?take offFriday).4 In addition, many VPCs undergo limited internal modification by adverbials,where the adverb pre-modifies the particle (e.g., come straight over).The syntactic variability of prepositional verbs is more subtle.
PVs occur in twobasic forms: (1) fixed preposition PVs (e.g., come across), where the verb and selectedpreposition must be strictly adjacent; and (2) mobile preposition PVs (e.g., refer to),where the selected preposition is adjacent to the verb in the canonical word order, butundergoes limited syntactic alternation.
For example, mobile preposition PVs allowlimited coordination of PP objects (e.g., refer to the book and to the DVD), and the NPobject of the selected preposition can be passivized (e.g., the book they referred to).Even subtler are the syntactic effects observed for determinerless PPs.
The singularnoun in the PP?D is often strictly countable (e.g., off screen, on break), resulting insyntactic markedness as, without a determiner, the noun does not constitute a saturatedNP.
This in turn dictates the need for a dedicated analysis in a linguistically motivatedgrammar in order to be able to avoid parse failures (Baldwin et al 2004; van der Beek2005).
Additionally, there is considerable variation in the internal modifiability of deter-minerless PPs, with some not permitting any internal modification (e.g., of course) andothers allowing optional internal modification (e.g., at considerable length).
There are also,however, cases of obligatory internal modification (e.g., at considerable/great expense vs.*at expense) and highly restricted internal modification (e.g., at long last vs. *at great/shortlast).
Balancing up these different possibilities in terms of over- and undergeneration ina grammar is far from trivial (Baldwin et al 2006).Naturally there are other prepositional MWE types in languages other than Englishwith their own syntactic complexities.
Notable examples to have received attention inthe computational linguistics literature are Dutch ?collocational prepositional phrases?
(VilladaMoiro?n 2005), German complex prepositions (Trawin?ski 2003; Trawinski, Sailer,and Soehn 2006), German particle verbs (Schulte im Walde 2004; Rehbein and vanGenabith 2006), and Polish preposition?pronoun contractions (Trawin?ski 2005, 2006).2.2.1 Prepositional MWEs in NLP.
The syntactic variation of prepositional MWEs leadsto difficulties for NLP applications.
To start with, there is the problem of identifyingtheir token occurrences, for example, for semantic indexing purposes.
As with simplexwords, a given MWE may appear with different subcategorization frames (e.g., give upvs.
give up [something]), but added to that, the order of the elements may be flexibleor internally modified (see previous discussion), and some elements may be optional(e.g., out in make a big thing (out) of [something]).
Additionally, they conspire with PPattachment ambiguity to compound structural ambiguity.
For example, hand the paper intoday is ambiguous between a V NP PP analysis ([V hand] [NP the paper] [PP in today]), aV NP analysis ([V hand] [NP the paper in today]), and a transitive VPC analysis ([V hand][NP the paper] [P in] [NP today]); of these, the final analysis is, of course, correct.4 The question of whether or not a particle can be separated from the verb depends on factors such as thedegree of bonding of the particle with the verb, the size of the NP, and the type of the NP, as discussed byWasow (2002).126Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in ApplicationsRelated to this is the issue of resource development, especially lexicon developmentfor linguistically motivated parsers.
First, a representation must be arrived at which issufficiently expressive to encode the syntactic subtleties of eachMWE instance (Sag et al2002; Calzolari et al 2002; Copestake et al 2002; Odijk 2004).
Second, the lexiconmust bepopulated in order to ensure adequate parser coverage over prepositional MWEs.
Dueto the high productivity and domain specificity of prepositional MWEs, a number oflexical acquisition approaches have been developed, usually customized to a particularprepositional MWE type in a specific language.For VPCs in English, for instance, Baldwin and Villavicencio (2002) focused ontheir automatic extraction from raw text corpora, on the basis of a POS tagger, chunker,and chunk grammar, and finally the combined output of the three along with variouslinguistic and frequency features.
Baldwin (2005a) expanded on this work to extractVPCs complete with valence information, to produce a fully specified lexical item.
Inboth cases, it was found that 100% recall was extremely hard to achieve due to thepower-law distribution of VPC token frequencies in corpus data.
That is, around halfof the VPC lexical items found in pre-existing lexical resources occurred in the BNC atmost 2 times.Villavicencio (2005, 2006) took a different approach, in observing that VPCs occurproductively in semantically coherent clusters, based on (near-)synonymy of the headverb (e.g., clear/clean/drain up and break/rip/cut/tear up).
As a result, she expanded aseed set of VPCs based on class-based verb semantic information, and used Web-basedstatistics to filter false positives out of the resultant VPC candidate set.Li et al (2003) looked at the task of VPC identification rather than extraction,namely, identifying each individual VPC token instance in corpus data, based on aset of hand-crafted regular expressions.
Although they report very high precision andrecall for their method, it has the obvious disadvantage that the regular expressionsmust be manually encoded, and it is not clear that the proposed method is superiorto an off-the-shelf parser.
Kim and Baldwin (2006, in press) attempted to automatethe process of identification by post-processing the output of the RASP parser, anddemonstrated (a) that the RASP parser (Briscoe, Carroll, and Watson 2006) is highlyeffective at VPC identification, and (b) that the incorporation of lexicalized models ofselectional preferences can lead to modest improvements in parser accuracy.In terms of English PV extraction, Baldwin (2005b) proposed a method based on acombination of statistical measures and linguistic diagnostics, and demonstrated thatthe combination of statistics with linguistic diagnostics achieved the best extractionperformance.Research on prepositional MWEs in languages other than English includes Krennand Evert (2001) and Evert and Krenn (2005) on the extraction of German PP?verbcollocations (which are similar to verbal idioms/verb?noun combinations in English[Fazly, Cook, and Stevenson 2009]) based on a range of lexical association measures.Pecina (2008) further extended this work using a much broader set of lexical associationmeasures and classifier combination.
Looking at German, Do?mges et al (2007) analyzedthe productivity of PP?Ds headed by unter, and used their results to motivate a syntacticanalysis of the phenomenon.
For Dutch, van der Beek (2005) worked on the extractionof PP?Ds from the output of a parser, once again using a range of statistical measures.Sharoff (2004) described a semi-automatic approach to classifying prepositional MWEsin Russian, based on statistical measures and manual filtering using knowledge aboutthe structure of Russian prepositional phrases.A recent development which we expect will further catalyze research on preposi-tional (and general) MWE extraction was the release of a number of standardized data127Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2sets for MWE extraction evaluation as part of an LREC 2008 Workshop.
This includesdata sets for English VPCs (Baldwin 2008) and German PP?verbs (Krenn 2008).3.
SemanticsThere are three diametrically opposed views to the semantics of prepositions: (1) prepo-sitions are semantically vacuous and unworthy of semantic representation (a viewcommonly subscribed to in the information retrieval community: Baeza-Yates andRibeiro-Neto [1999], Manning, Raghavan, and Schu?tze [2008]); (2) preposition semanticsis a function of the words that select them and they in turn select, such that it is impos-sible to devise a standalone semantic characterization of preposition semantics (Tseng2000; Old 2003); and (3) prepositional semantics is complex but can be captured in astandalone resource (Kipper, Dang, and Palmer 2000; Saint-Dizier and Vazquez 2001;Litkowski and Hargraves 2005).
Kipper, Snyder, and Palmer (2004, page 23) elegantlysummarized this third position as ?it is precisely because the preposition?semanticsrelationship is so complex that properly accounting for it will lead to a more robustnatural language resource.?
Turning the clock back 16 years, Zelinski-Wibbelt (1993,page 1) observed that ?we are now witnessing a veritable plethora of investigationsinto the semantics of preposition semantics?
and speculated that ?the time has come tosee how natural language processing (NLP) can benefit from the insights of theoreticallinguistics.?
Although these prognostications were perhaps overly optimistic at thetime, they are now being progressively fulfilled.In discussing preposition semantics, there is a basic distinction between composi-tional (or regular/productive) and non-compositional (or irregular/collocational) se-mantics.
Preposition usages with compositional semantics transparently preserve thestandalone semantics of the preposition (e.g., They met on Friday), whereas those withnon-compositional semantics involve some level of semantic specialization or diver-gence from the standalone semantics (e.g., They got on famously).
In terms of formalsemantics, the complement vs. adjunct distinction5 is also relevant for determining thelogical form for a given input.Subsequently, we review research on the formal and lexical semantics of preposi-tions, and the semantics of prepositional MWEs.3.1 Formal Semantic Approaches to PrepositionsResearch on the formal semantics of prepositions has focused predominantly on devis-ing representations for temporal, spatial, and locative usages, the three most productiveand coherent classes of prepositions.Prepositions can be used in order to convey temporal information relevant to theduration of a proposition.
Normally, three types of information are identified: (1) theduration of the preposition, (2) its duration relative to the time of reference of the dis-course, and (3) its absolute location on the time axis.
Some prepositions convey all threetypes of information, and others convey only one.
Within each information type, the5 In talking about the complement/adjunct distinction, we put aside the well-known issue of borderlinecases (Rauh 1993), and ignore language-specific phenomena such as Funktionsverbgefu?ge, whereGerman PPs can also occur as invariant syntagmas in light verb constructions (e.g., in Beschlag nehmen ?tooccupy?)
and the complement?adjunct distinction does not apply.128Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in Applicationssemantic input of temporal prepositions can vary considerably: They can distinguishbetween existential and universal quantification over time, indicate whether or not theextremes of the period are to be included, and mark the motion through time.Themain challenge for formal approaches to the semantics of temporal prepositionsis coming upwith a representation which can adequately encode the different semanticsof temporal prepositions (Bennett 1975; Miller and Johnson-Laird 1976; Ro?hrer 1977;Kamp 1981; Allen 1984; Richards et al 1989; Bre?e and Smit 1986; Durrell and Bre?e 1993).Another concern has been the ability to support compositional semantic interpretationof temporal PPs, with emphasis on their quantificational role.
For English, Pratt andFrancez (1997), for instance, proposed generalized temporal quantifiers to representtemporal NPs, temporal PPs, and sentences.With respect to spatial semantics, the focus of research has been on devising formalsemantic representations that capture both the functional relationships between theobjects, and human interaction with those objects.
Along these lines, Kelleher andCostello (2009) propose computational models of spatial preposition semantics for usein visually situated dialogue systems.Finally, with locative prepositions, formal semantic approaches have proposed thatthey should decompose into three semantic elements: a locative relation, a referenceentity, and a place value.
Each locative expression (e.g., a PP orNP) is generally assumedto have a unique locative relation and place value.
Thus, combinations of pure locativerelationmarkers and prepositions which are specified for place values are ruled out, andno embedded locative relations are allowed in the semantic structure of a single locativeexpression.
Some locative prepositions are underspecified for a place value, however,and thus are able to co-occur with a second preposition that specifies a place value(e.g., out from under the table).
The specific locative relation denoted by a prepositionis generally considered not to be specified in the lexicon, but instead to vary witheventuality types.J?rgensen and L?nning (2009) used the Minimal Recursion Semantics (MRS)framework (Copestake et al 2005) as the basis for a language-independent represen-tation of semantics of locative prepositions.
They applied the proposed representa-tion to English and Norwegian locative prepositions, and demonstrated its utility forNorwegian?English machine translation.
Hellan and Beermann (2005) similarly usedthe MRS framework to capture the locative and spatial semantics of Norwegian prepo-sitions.
Ramsay (2005) proposed a unified theory of preposition semantics, where thesemantics of temporal usages of prepositions are predicted naturally from abstractrelational definitions.
Arsenijevic?
(2005) developed a formal semantic analysis of prepo-sitions in terms of event structure and applied it to a natural language generationtask.Denis, Kuhn, and Wechsler (2003) analyzed the syntactico-semantics of V-PP goalmotion complexes in English (e.g., Kim ran to the library), and developed an analysisbased on the conclusion that the preposition is often semantically rather than syn-tactically determined.
This lends support to arguments for a systematic account ofpreposition semantics.Kordoni (2003b, 2003a, 2006) focused instead on the role of prepositions in diathesisalternations, and proposed an MRS analysis of indirect prepositional arguments basedon English, German, and Modern Greek data.
Specifically, she showed that a robustformal semantic framework like MRS provides an appropriate theoretical basis fora linguistically motivated account of indirect prepositional arguments, and also thenecessary formal generalizations for the analysis of such arguments in a multilingualcontext (as a result of MRS structures being easily comparable across languages).129Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 23.2 Lexical Semantic Resources for PrepositionsA number of lexical semantic resources have been developed specifically for prepo-sitions, four of which are outlined here: (1) the English LCS Lexicon, (2) the PrepositionProject, (3) PrepNet, and (4) VerbNet.The English LCS Lexicon (Dorr 1993, 1997) uses the formalism of Lexical ConceptualStructure (based on work by Jackendoff [1983, 1990]6) to encode lexical knowledgeusing a typed directed graph of semantic primitives and fields.
In addition to a largelexicon of verbs, it includes 165 English prepositions classified into 122 intransitive and375 transitive senses.
For example, the LCS representation for the directional sense ofup (as in up the stairs) is:(4) (toward Loc (nil 2) (UP Loc (nil 2) (?
Thing 6)))where the numbers indicate the logical arguments of the predicates.
This representationindicates that the logical subject of the PP (indexed by ?2?
; e.g., the piano in move thepiano up the stairs) is relocated up in the direction of the logical argument (indexed by?6?
; e.g., the stairs in our example), which is in turn a concrete thing.
The LCS Lexiconwas developed from a theoretical point of view and isn?t directly tied to corpus usage.The Preposition Project (Litkowski 2002; Litkowski and Hargraves 2005, 2006) isan attempt to develop a comprehensive semantic database for English prepositions,intended for NLP applications.
The project took the New Oxford Dictionary of English(Pearsall 1998) as its source of preposition sense definitions, which it then fine-tunedbased on cross-comparison with both functionally tagged prepositions in FrameNet(Baker, Fillmore, and Lowe 1998) and the account of preposition semantics in a de-scriptive grammar of English (Quirk et al 1985); it also draws partially on Dorr?sLCS definitions of prepositions.
Importantly, the Preposition Project is building up asignificant number of tagged preposition instances through analysis of the prepositiondata in FrameNet, which it then uses to characterize the noun selectional preferences ofeach preposition sense and also the attachment properties to verbs of different types.
Atthe time of writing, 673 preposition senses for 334 prepositions (mostly phrasal prepo-sitions) have been annotated.
In tandemwith developing type-level sense definitions ofprepositions, the Preposition Project has sense annotated over 27,000 occurrences of the56 most common prepositions, based on functionally tagged prepositions in FrameNet.To date, the primary application of the Preposition Project has been in a SemEval 2007task on the word sense disambiguation of prepositions (see Section 3.3).PrepNet (Saint-Dizier and Vazquez 2001; Cannesson and Saint-Dizier 2002; Saint-Dizier 2005, 2008) is an attempt to develop a compositional account of prepositionsemantics which interfaces with the semantics of the predicate (e.g., verb or predicativenoun).
Similarly to the English LCS Lexicon, it uses LCS as the descriptive language,in conjunction with typed ?-calculus and underspecified representations.
Noteworthyelements of PrepNet are that it attempts to capture selectional constraints, metaphor-ical sense extension, and complex arguments.
PrepNet was originally developed overFrench prepositions, but has since been applied to the analysis of instrumentals acrossa range of languages (Saint-Dizier 2006b).VerbNet (Kipper, Dang, and Palmer 2000; Kipper Schuler 2005) contains a shallowhierarchy of 50 spatial prepositions, classified into five categories.
The hierarchy is6 See Levin and Rappaport-Hovav (in press) for a recent review of this style of semantics.130Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in Applicationsderived from pioneering work by Spa?rck Jones and Boguraev (1987), which is in turnderived from Wood (1979).
The preposition sense inventory was used as the basis forextending VerbNet and led to significant redevelopment of the verb class set (Kipper,Snyder, and Palmer 2004), in a poignant illustration of how preposition semanticsimpinges on verb semantics.In other work, Sablayrolles (1995) classified 199 simple and complex spatial prepo-sitions into 16 classes.
Lersundi and Agirre (2003) applied a similar methodology toDorr and Habash (2002) in developing a multilingual sense inventory for Basque post-positions and English and Spanish prepositions.
Fort and Guillaume (2007) developeda syntactico-semantic lexicon of French prepositions, partly based on PrepNet; theirparticular interest was in enhancing parsing performance.
Old (2003) analyzed Roget?sThesaurus and arrived at the conclusion that it was not a good source of standalonepreposition semantics.
Beavers (2003) analyzed the aspectual and path properties ofgoal-marking postpositions in Japanese, and proposed an analysis based on predicateand event restrictions.
Boonthum, Toida, and Levinstein (2005, 2006) defined a general-purpose sense inventory of seven prepositions (but purportedly applicable to all prepo-sitions), taking the LCS lexicon as a starting point and expanding the sense inventoryby consulting Quirk et al (1985) and Barker (1996).
Finally, as part of a more generalattempt to capture lexical semantics in the formalism of Multilayered Extended Seman-tic Networks (MultiNet), Helbig (2006) developed a semantic treatment of prepositions,focusing primarily on German.There has historically been a strong interest in preposition semantics in the field ofcognitive linguistics (Talmy 1988), in the form of ?schemas.?
Schemas are an attempt tovisualize the relation between the object of the preposition (the Trajector, or TR) and itscognitive context (the Landmark, or LM).
They provide a language-independent repre-sentation, and have been used to analyze crosslinguistic correspondences in prepositionsemantics.
For example, Tyler and Evans (2003)used schemas to capture the semantics ofEnglish prepositions, arguing that all meanings are grounded in human spatio-physicalexperience.
Schemas have also been used as the basis of crosslinguistic analysis ofpreposition semantics, for example, by Brala (2000) to describe the senses of on and inin English and Croatian, Knas?
(2006) to motivate a sense inventory for at in English andPolish, and Cosme and Gilquin (2008) to contrast with and avec in English and French.Trujillo (1995) also developed a language-independent classification of spatialprepositions for machine translation purposes, in a lexicalist framework.3.3 Automatic Classification of Preposition SenseOnly a modest amount of research has been carried out on the sense disambiguationof prepositions, largely because until recently, there haven?t been lexical semantic re-sources and sense-tagged corpora for prepositions that could be used for this purpose.Classification of preposition sense has been motivated as a standalone task in appli-cations such as machine translation, and also as a means of improving the generalperformance of semantic tasks such as semantic role labeling.O?Hara and Wiebe (2003) were the first to perform a standalone preposition wordsense disambiguation (WSD) task, based on the semantic roles in the Penn Treebank.They collapsed the semantic roles into seven basic semantic classes, and built a decisiontree classifier based on a set of contextual features similar to those used inWSD systems.O?Hara andWiebe (2009) is an updated version of this original research, using a broaderrange of resources.
Ye and Baldwin (2006) also built on the earlier research, in attempt-ing to enhance the accuracy of semantic role labelingwith dedicated PP disambiguation.131Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2They demonstrated the potential for accurate preposition labeling to contribute to large-scale improvements in overall semantic role labeling performance.As mentioned in Section 3.2, Litkowski and Hargraves (2007) ran a task on theWSD of prepositions at SemEval 2007, as a spinoff of the Preposition Project.
The taskfocused on 34 prepositions, with a combined total of 332 senses.
Similarly to a lexicalsample WSD task, participants were required to disambiguate token instances of eachpreposition relative to the provided discrete sense inventory.
Three teams participatedin the task (Popescu, Tonelli, and Pianta 2007; Ye and Baldwin 2007; Yuret 2007), with allsystems outperforming two baselines over both fine- and coarse-grained sense invento-ries, through various combinations of lexical, syntactic, and semantic features.
The best-performing system achieved F-scores of 0.818 and 0.861 over fine- and coarse-grainedsenses, respectively (Ye and Baldwin 2007).In other papers dedicated to prepositional WSD, Boonthum, Toida, and Levinstein(2005, 2006) proposed a semantic collocation-based approach to preposition interpre-tation, and demonstrated the import of the method in a paraphrase recognition task.Alam (2003, 2004) used decision trees to disambiguate 12 senses of over, distinguishingbetween senses which are determined by their governor and those which are deter-mined by their NP complement.Baldwin (2006) explored the interaction between preposition valence and the dis-tributional hypothesis, based on latent semantic analysis (LSA; Deerwester et al 1990).He derived gold-standard preposition-to-preposition similarities using each of Dorr?sLCS lexicon (based on the method of Resnik and Diab [2000]) and Roget?s Thesaurus,and compared them to the similarities predicted by LSA, in each case using eithervalence specification (considering intransitive and transitive prepositions separately) orvalence underspecification (considering both preposition valences together).
His resultsindicated higher correlation when valence specification is used, suggesting not onlythat there is a significant difference in semantics between transitive and intransitiveusages of a given preposition, but that it is sufficiently marked in the context of use thatdistributional methods are able to pick up on it.Cook and Stevenson (2006) developed a four-way classification of the semanticsof up in VPCs based on cognitive grammar, and classified token instances based on acombination of linguistic and word co-occurrence features.In a machine translation context, Trujillo (1995) used selectional preferences andunification to perform target language disambiguation over his classification of spatialprepositions.Srihari, Niu, and Li (2000) used manual rules to disambiguate prepositions innamed entities.3.4 The Semantics of Prepositional MWEsPrepositional MWEs?focusing primarily on the English MWE types of VPCs, PVs, PP?Ds, and compound nominals?populate the spectrum from fully compositional to fullynon-compositional (Dixon 1982; McCarthy, Keller, and Carroll 2003).
For instance, putup (as in put the picture up) is fully compositional, whereas make out (as in Kim and Sandymade out) is fully non-compositional.
Compositionality can be viewed relative to eachcomponent word (Bannard 2005) or holistically for the MWE as a single unit (McCarthy,Keller, and Carroll 2003).
With play out (as in see how the match plays out), for example,we might claim that play is non-compositional but out is (semi-)compositional, and thatas a whole the VPC is non-compositional.
The question of compositionality is confused132Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in Applicationssomewhat by productive constructions such as the resultative up (e.g., eat/beat/finish/...up) and the manner by (e.g., by train/car/broomstick/...), which have specialized semanticsrelative to their simplex usages but occur relatively freely with this semantics within agiven construction (VPC and PP?D, respectively, in our examples).There have been a number of attempts to model the compositionality of VPCs.
Ban-nard (2005, 2006) considered VPC compositionality at the component word level, andproposed a distributional approach that assumes there is a positive correlation betweencompositionality and the distributional similarity of each component to simplex usagesof that same word.
McCarthy, Keller, and Carroll (2003) opted for a holistic notionof compositionality and used a range of approaches based on the distributional ?the-saurus?
of Lin (1998) to model compositionality, for example, in calculating the overlapin the top-N similar words for a given VPC and its head verb.
They also examinedthe use of statistical tests such as mutual information in modeling compositionality,and found the similarity-based methods to correlate more highly with the humanjudgments.
Baldwin et al (2003) used LSA to analyze the compositionality of VPCs(and compound nouns), and once again demonstrated that there is a positive correlationbetween compositionality and the distributional similarity between a given VPC andits head word.
Kim and Baldwin (2007) predicted the compositionality of VPCs basedon a combination of the McCarthy, Keller, and Carroll (2003) and Bannard (2006) datasets, and analysis of verb?particle co-occurrence patterns.
Taking a different approach tothe task, Patrick and Fletcher (2005) classified token instances of verb?preposition pairsaccording to the three classes of decomposable (syntactic dependence between the P andV, with compositional semantics), non-decomposable (syntactic dependence betweenthe P and V, with idiomatic semantics), and independent (no syntactic dependencebetween the P and V).Levi (1978) pioneered the use of prepositions as a means of interpreting compoundnouns, through the notion of compatibility with paraphrases incorporating preposi-tions.
For example, baby chair can be paraphrased as chair for (a) baby, indicating com-patibility with the FOR class.
In her original research, Levi used four prepositions, incombination with a set of verbs (for relative clause paraphrases) and semantic roles(for nominalizations).
Lauer (1995) extended this research in developing an exclusivelypreposition-based set of seven semantic classes.
For example, Levi would interpret truckdriver as PATIENT, in the sense that truck is the patient of the underlying verb of thehead noun to drive, whereas Lauer would interpret it as OF (c.f., driver of (the) truck).Girju (2007, 2009) leveraged translation data to improve the accuracy of compoundnoun interpretation, based on the observation that the choice of preposition in Ro-mance languages is often indicative of the semantics of the compound noun.
Con-versely, Johnston and Busa (1996) used Qualia structure from the Generative Lexicon(Pustejovsky 1995) to interpret the prepositions in Italian complex nominals, such asmacchina da corsa ?race car?.
Jensen and Nilsson (2003) used (Danish) prepositions asthe basis of a finite set of role relations with which to describe the meaning contentof nominals, and demonstrated the utility of the resultant ontology in disambiguatingnominal phrases.4.
ApplicationsPrepositions have tended to be overlooked in NLP applications, but there have beenisolated examples of prepositions being shown to be worthy of dedicated treatment.
Inparticular, applications requiring some level of syntactic abstraction tend to benefit from133Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2the inclusion of prepositions.
Similarly, applications which incorporate an element ofnatural language generation or realization need to preserve prepositions in the interestsof producing well-formed outputs.Riloff (1995) challenged the validity of the stop-word philosophy for text classi-fication, and demonstrated that dependency tuples incorporating prepositions are amore effective document representation than simple words.
In a direct challenge tothe prevalent ?stop word?
perception of prepositions in information retrieval, Hansen(2005) and Lassen (2006) placed emphasis on not only prepositions but preposi-tion semantics in a music retrieval system and ontology-based text search system,respectively.Information extraction is one application where prepositions are uncontrover-sially crucial to system accuracy, in terms of the role they play in named entities(Cucchiarelli and Velardi 2001; Toral 2005; Kozareva 2006) and in IE patterns, in linkingthe elements in a text (Appelt et al 1993; Muslea 1999; Ono et al 2001; Leroy and Chen2002).Benamara (2005) used preposition semantics in a cooperative question answeringsystem.
In the context of cross-language question answering (CLQA), Hartrumpf,Helbig, and Osswald (2006) used MultiNet to interpret the semantics of Germanprepositions, and demonstrated that in instances where the answer passage containeda different preposition to that included in the original question, preposition semanticsboosted the performance of their CLQA system.Boonthum, Toida, and Levinstein (2006) successfully applied their prepositionWSDmethod in a paraphrase recognition task, namely, predicting that Kim covered the baby inblankets and Kim covered the baby with blankets have essentially the same semantics.
Theyproposed seven general senses of prepositions (e.g., PARTICIPANT, INSTRUMENT, andQUALITY), and annotated prepositions occurring in 120 sentences for each of 10 prepo-sitions.
They evaluated aWSDmethod over this data, and sketched how the prepositionsense information could then be used for paraphrase recognition.Prepositions have deservedly received a moderate amount of attention in appli-cations which require explicit representation of 3D space, such as robotics, animatedagents, and virtual reality, in the context of interpreting the spatial information ofprepositions.
For example, Xu and Badler (2000) developed a geometric definition ofthe motion trajectories of prepositions, whereas Tokunaga, Koyama, and Saito (2005)use potential functions to estimate the spatial extent of Japanese spatial nouns (whichcombine with postpositions to have a similar syntactic and semantic profile to Eng-lish spatial prepositions).
Kelleher and van Genabith (2003) proposed a method forinterpreting in front of and behind in a virtual reality environment based on differentframes of reference.
Hying (2007) carried out an analysis of preposition semanticsin the HRCR Map Task corpus, and used it to evaluate two models of projectiveprepositions.
Kelleher and Kruijff (2005) developed a model for grounding spatialexpressions in visual perception and also for modeling proximity, and Reichelt andVerleih (2005) developed the B3D system for generating a computational representationof prepositions in geospatial applications.
Furlan, Baldwin, and Klippel (2007) usedpreposition occurrence in Web data as a means of classifying landmarks for use inroute directions.
Finally, Kelleher and Costello (2009) proposed computational modelsof topological and projective spatial prepositions for use in a visually situated dialoguesystem.In the field of machine translation (MT), spatial and temporal prepositions havereceived a moderate amount of attention, particularly in the context of interlingua-and transfer-based MT.
Dorr and Voss (1993) mapped prepositions onto 5-place spatial134Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in Applicationspredicates in the context of interlingua-based MT, building on the work of Talmy (1985)and Jackendoff (1983, 1990).
Nu?bel (1996) developed a set of interlingual predicates foradjunct PPs in English?German MT, incorporating a dialogue component which canbe used to disambiguate prepositions relative to the discourse context.
Bond, Ogura,and Uchino (1997) developed a dedicated type hierarchy for the generation of preposi-tions associated with temporal expressions in Japanese?English machine translation.Kumar Naskar and Bandyopadhyay (2006) proposed a transfer-based method for trans-lating English prepositions into Bengali postpositions/inflectional markers, focusingon spatial, temporal, and also idiomatic usages.
Bond (1998) proposed an algorithmfor translating Japanese spatial nouns into English prepositions based on semanticfields.
Trujillo (1995) used his classification of spatial prepositions as the basis of anEnglish?Spanish translation system using bilingual lexical rules.
Hajic?
et al (2002)proposed a method for inserting prepositions into tectogrammatical representations inCzech?English MT, although they did not manage to integrate the predictions intotheir final MT system.
Husain, Sharma, and Reddy (2007) achieved promising resultsusing an explicit model of preposition semantics as the basis for preposition selection inHindi/Telugu?English machine translation.In the context of statistical machine translation, Toutanova and Suzuki (2007) iden-tified that case marker (= postposition) generation poses a significant challenge for stan-dard phrase-based methods in English?Japanese translation, identifying case markererrors in 16% of outputs.
They proposed an n-best reranking method to improve casemarker generation performance, whereby they expand the n-best list to include extracase marker variations, and perform case marker prediction for each bunsetsu.7 In eval-uation, they demonstrated that their proposed method significantly outperforms boththe baseline SMT system (Quirk, Menezes, and Cherry 2005) and a comparable n-bestrerankingmethodwithout dedicated casemarker candidate expansion.
The significanceof this research is that it demonstrates that dedicated handling of postpositions canenhance SMT performance, a result which has promise for adpositions and markers inother languages.As stated in Section 1, prepositions are notoriously hard for non-native speakers tomaster, and are a frequent source of errors in English as a Second Language (ESL) prose.Errors can take the form of incorrect preposition selection (e.g., *Kim stayed in home),erroneous preposition insertion (e.g., *Kim played at outside), or erroneous prepositionomission (e.g., *Kim went ?
the conference) (Tetreault and Chodorow 2008b).
Tetreaultand Chodorow (2008b) proposed a combined detection/correction method based on asupervised model.
For each preposition in a text, they predict the most likely candidatefrom 34 candidates, based on local word context.
If the most likely candidate differsfrom the original preposition selection, an error is predicted and correction proposed.In evaluation over ESL texts, they found that their method performs at high precisionbut low recall.
Separately, they found that the same method performs considerablybetter when applied to preposition selection over native English text, and also that itis important to have multiple annotators correct ESL text in order to avoid skewing thedata (Tetreault and Chodorow 2008a).
In other research, Gamon et al (2008) performedpreposition selection in terms of both selection and insertion, but over a smallerset of prepositions.
De Felice and Pulman (2007) similarly proposed a method for7 Roughly speaking, a bunsetsu is a case-marked chunk.135Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2preposition correction, but only evaluated their model over five prepositions and nativeEnglish text.5.
Introduction to the Articles in This Special IssueFor this special issue we invited submissions that brought a theoretical basis to researchon prepositions in lexical resources and NLP tasks.
The number of submissions re-ceived reflects the interest in prepositions at this time, with a total of 16 submissions.On the basis of a rigorous review process, we selected four articles for inclusion inthe special issue, covering: the use of semantic resources to disambiguate prepositionsemantics, for use in lexical acquisition (O?Hara and Wiebe 2009); a crosslingual lexicalsemantic analysis of prepositions to interpret nominal compounds (Girju 2009); a formalsemantic analysis of preposition semantics, and its possible application in Norwegian?English machine translation (J?rgensen and L?nning 2009); and a computational modelfor preposition semantics for use in a dialogue system (Kelleher and Costello 2009).
Wenow outline each of these articles.The first two articles look at the semantic interpretation of prepositions, as they tendto be highly polysemous and have a number of closely related senses.O?Hara and Wiebe look at the disambiguation of preposition semantics for usein lexical acquisition, in semi-automatically extending lexical resources.
They investi-gate the utility of information learned from resources such as the Penn Treebank andFrameNet, to perform semantic role disambiguation of PPs.
The proposedmethodologyis evaluated in a series of experiments, and different sense granularities are contrastedin task-based evaluation.Prepositions are highly frequent in many languages, but also highly idiomatic inusage in a given language (hence the difficulty of non-native speakers in learning to useprepositions correctly).
However, there are instances of cross-linguistic regularities intheir linguistic realizations.
For example, when translating English nominal compoundsof the type Noun Preposition Noun (N P N) and Noun Noun (N N) into Romancelanguages, these are often translated into N PN compounds, where the choice of prepo-sition is (semi-)predictable from the semantics of the compound.
Girju investigatesthe role of the syntactic and semantic properties of prepositions in English and Romancelanguages in the automatic semantic interpretation of English nominal compounds.On the basis of an extensive corpus analysis of the distribution of semantic relationsin nominal compounds in English and five Romance languages, she attempts to dis-ambiguate the semantic relations in English nominal compounds.
She focuses on non-equative compositional nominal compounds, and empirically tests the contribution ofprepositions to the task of semantic interpretation, using a supervised, knowledge-intensive model.Identification of crosslinguistic and possibly universal properties of prepositions (orequivalent constructions) could potentially impact on a number of NLP applications.
Inmachine translation, for example, a formal description of the crosslinguistic semanticproperties of prepositions could provide the basis for an interlingua.
This is the topic ofthe third article in this special issue: J?rgensen and L?nning propose a unification-basedgrammar implementation of a formal semantic analysis of preposition semantics, anddemonstrate its application in Norwegian?English MT.A correct handling of prepositions, particularly spatial prepositions, is also impor-tant in dialogue systems, as prepositions are often used to refer to entities in the physicalenvironment of system interaction.
The last article in this special issue addresses this136Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in Applicationstopic: Kelleher and Costello present computational models of spatial prepositionsemantics for use in visually situated dialogue systems.
The proposed models oftopological and projective spatial prepositions can be used for both interpretation andgeneration of prepositional expressions in complex visual environments containingmultiple objects, and are able to account for the contextual effect which other distractorobjects can have on the region described by a preposition.
The evaluation is done interms of psycholinguistic tests evaluating the approach to distractor interference onprepositional semantics.
The models are employed in a human?robot dialogue systemto interpret locative expressions containing a topological preposition and to generatespatial references in visually situated contexts.6.
Discussion and ConclusionAs we hope to have demonstrated in this introduction, prepositions have led a mixedexistence in computational linguistics and related fields, particularly in the contextof applications.
In applications requiring spatial interpretation (e.g., situated dialoguesystems), they have been the focus of dedicated research, and in applications whichincorporate a language generation component such as MT, there have been isolatedinstances exemplifying the need for dedicated handling of prepositions/case markers.In general, however, they tend to have been relegated to the sidelines in applied NLPresearch.Research on prepositions has tended to concentrate on a specific subset of preposi-tions in a particular language, often as a one-off research task which has failed to makebroader impact in the field of computational linguistics.
PP attachment?especially inEnglish?has been an exception, in the sense that the RRR data set has given rise to anactive strand of research centered around prepositions.We hope that variants of the RRRdata set from Atterer and Schu?tze (2007) and Agirre, Baldwin, and Martinez (2008) willreinvigorate interest in PP attachment, in a situated parsing context.
Similarly, the emer-gence of resources such as the Preposition Project, and the data set made available forthe SemEval 2007 task on the word sense disambiguation of prepositions (Litkowskiand Hargraves 2007), provide the means for more detailed analysis of prepositionsemantics.
In addition to standalone word sense disambiguation tasks, however, thereneeds to be more research on the interaction of preposition semantics with othersemantic tasks, such as semantic role labeling and the word sense disambiguation ofcontent words.
The increasing availability of large-scale parallel corpora paves the wayfor crosslinguistic research on preposition syntax.
Areas of particular promise in thisregard are methods for generating prepositions inMT, and automatic error correction ofpreposition usage in non-native speaker text.
Following the lead of Saint-Dizier (2006b),J?rgensen and L?nning (2009), and others, we also hope to see more crosslinguisticand typological research on the lexical semantics of prepositions.
Although there hasbeen a steady proliferation of WordNets for different languages, linked variously toEnglish WordNet (e.g., EuroWordNet for several European languages [Vossen 1998],BALKANET for Balkan languages [Stamou et al 2002], HowNet for Chinese [Dong andDong 2006], and Japanese WordNet for Japanese [Isahara et al 2008]), they have tendedto follow the lead of English WordNet and focus exclusively on content words.
Giventhe increasing maturity of resources such as the Preposition Project and PrepNet, thetime seems right to develop preposition sense inventories for more languages, linkedback to English.
On the basis of currently available resources and future efforts suchas these, we believe there will be a steady lowering of the barrier to including a moresystematic handling of prepositions in NLP applications.137Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2The purpose of this article has been to highlight the theoretical and applied re-search that has been done on prepositions in computational linguistics, focusing oncomputational syntax and semantics.
In particular, we have aimed to highlight appliedresearch which has focused specifically on prepositions.
It is our hope that through thisspecial issue, we will rekindle interest in prepositions and motivate greater awarenessof prepositions in various applications.AcknowledgmentsThanks to Ken Litkowski, Paola Merlo,Patrick Saint-Dizier, and Martin Volk forfeedback on an earlier draft of this paper,and Robert Dale and Mary Gardiner for theirunfailing support and encouragementthroughout the editorial process.
We alsoacknowledge the efforts of the considerablenumber of reviewers who devoted time toreviewing the original submissions to thespecial issue, and fine-tuning the acceptedarticles.
The first author of this article wassupported in part by the Australian ResearchCouncil through Discovery Project grantDP0663879.ReferencesAasa, Jo?rgen.
2004.
Unsupervised resolutionof PP attachment ambiguities in Swedish.Master?s thesis, Stockholm University.Abeille?, Anne, Olivier Bonami, Danie`leGodard, and Jesse Tseng.
2003.
Thesyntax of a` and de: an HPSG analysis.
InProceedings of the ACL-SIGSEMWorkshopon the Linguistic Dimensions of Prepositionsand their Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 133?144,Toulouse.Abney, Steven, Robert E. Schapire, andYoram Singer.
1999.
Boosting applied totagging and PP attachment.
In Proceedingsof the Joint SIGDAT Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing andVery Large Corpora (EMNLP/VLC-99),pages 38?45, College Park, MD.Agirre, Eneko, Timothy Baldwin, andDavid Martinez.
2008.
Improving parsingand PP attachment performance withsense information.
In Proceedings of the46th Annual Meeting of the ACL: HumanLanguage Technologies, pages 317?325,Columbus, OH.Alam, Yukiko Sasaki.
2003.
Forcomputational treatment of the polysemyof prepositional uses of Over.
InProceedings of the ACL-SIGSEMWorkshopon the Linguistic Dimensions of Prepositionsand their Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 66?76,Toulouse.Alam, Yukiko Sasaki.
2004.
Decision treesfor sense disambiguation of prepositions:Case of over.
In Proceedings of theHLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop onComputational Lexical Semantics,pages 52?59, Boston, MA.Alegre, Martha A., Josep M. Sopena, andAgusti Lloberas.
1999.
PP-attachment: Acommittee machine approach.
InProceedings of the Joint SIGDAT Conferenceon Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing and Very Large Corpora(EMNLP/VLC-99), pages 231?238,College Park, MD.Allen, James F. 1984.
Towards a generaltheory of action and time.
ArtificialIntelligence, 23:123?154.Altmann, Gerry and Mark Steedman.
1988.Interaction with context during humansentence processing.
Cognition,30(3):191?238.Appelt, Douglas E., Jerry R. Hobbs, JohnBear, David Israel, Megumi Kameyama,and Mabry Tyson.
1993.
FASTUS: Afinite-state processor for informationextraction from real-world text.
InProceedings of the 13th International JointConference on Artificial Intelligence(IJCAI-93), pages 1172?1181, Chambery.Arsenijevic?, Boban.
2005.
Subevents andprepositions.
In Proceedings of the SecondACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on the LinguisticDimensions of Prepositions and their Use inComputational Linguistics Formalisms andApplications, pages 39?46, Colchester.Atterer, Michaela and Hinrich Schu?tze.
2007.Prepositional phrase attachment withoutoracles.
Computational Linguistics,33(4):469?476.Baeza-Yates, Ricardo and BerthierRibeiro-Neto.
1999.Modern InformationRetrieval.
Addison Wesley/ACM press,Harlow, UK.Baker, Collin F., Charles J. Fillmore, andJohn B. Lowe.
1998.
The BerkeleyFrameNet project.
In Proceedings of the36th Annual Meeting of the ACL and 17thInternational Conference on Computational138Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in ApplicationsLinguistics: COLING/ACL-98, pages 86?90,Montreal.Baldwin, Timothy.
2005a.
Deep lexicalacquisition of verb-particle constructions.Computer Speech and Language,19(4):398?414.Baldwin, Timothy.
2005b.
Looking forprepositional verbs in corpus data.
InProceedings of the Second ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on the Linguistic Dimensions ofPrepositions and their Use in ComputationalLinguistics Formalisms and Applications,pages 180?189, Colchester.Baldwin, Timothy.
2006.
Distributionalsimilarity and preposition semantics.
InSaint-Dizier (Saint-Dizier 2006a).Baldwin, Timothy.
2008.
A resource forevaluating the deep lexical acquisition ofEnglish verb-particle constructions.
InProceedings of the LREC 2008 Workshop:Towards a Shared Task for MultiwordExpressions (MWE 2008), pages 1?2,Marrakech.Baldwin, Timothy, Colin Bannard, TakaakiTanaka, and Dominic Widdows.
2003.An empirical model of multiwordexpression decomposability.
InProceedings of the ACL-2003 Workshopon Multiword Expressions: Analysis,Acquisition and Treatment, pages 89?96,Sapporo.Baldwin, Timothy, John Beavers, Leonoorvan der Beek, Francis Bond, DanFlickinger, and Ivan A.
Sag.
2006.
In searchof a systematic treatment of determinerlessPPs.
In Saint-Dizier (Saint-Dizier 2006a).Baldwin, Timothy, Emily M. Bender, DanFlickinger, Ara Kim, and Stephan Oepen.2004.
Road-testing the English ResourceGrammar over the British NationalCorpus.
In Proceedings of the 4thInternational Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2004),pages 2047?2050, Lisbon.Baldwin, Timothy and Aline Villavicencio.2002.
Extracting the unextractable: A casestudy on verb-particles.
In Proceedings ofthe 6th Conference on Natural LanguageLearning (CoNLL-2002), pages 98?104,Taipei.Bannard, Colin.
2005.
Learning about themeaning of verb-particle constructionsfrom corpora.
Computer Speech andLanguage, 19(4):467?478.Bannard, Colin.
2006.
Acquiring PhrasalLexicons from Corpora.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Edinburgh.Barker, Ken.
1996.
The assessment ofsemantic cases using English positional,prepositional and adverbial case markers.Technical Report TR-96-08, ComputerScience, University of Ottawa.Beavers, John.
2003.
The semantics andpolysemy of goal marking prepositions inJapanese.
In Proceedings of theACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on the LinguisticDimensions of Prepositions and their Use inComputational Linguistics Formalisms andApplications, pages 205?216, Toulouse.Benamara, Farah.
2005.
Reasoning withprepositions within a cooperativequestion-answering framework.
InProceedings of the Second ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on the Linguistic Dimensions ofPrepositions and their Use in ComputationalLinguistics Formalisms and Applications,pages 145?152, Colchester.Bennett, David C. 1975.
Spatial and Temporaluses of English Prepositions: As Essay inStratified Semantics.
Longman, London.Bikel, Daniel M. 2004.
Intricacies of Collins?parsing model.
Computational Linguistics,30(4):479?511.Bond, Francis.
1998.
Interpretation ofJapanese ?spatial?
nouns inJapanese-to-English machine translation.Presentation at the 1998 Annual GeneralMeeting of the Australian LinguisticsSociety: ALS-98.Bond, Francis, Kentaro Ogura, and HajimeUchino.
1997.
Temporal expressions inJapanese-to-English machine translation.In Proceedings of the 7th InternationalConference on Theoretical and MethodologicalIssues in Machine Translation (TMI-97),pages 55?62, Santa Fe, NM.Boonthum, Chutima, Shunichi Toida, andIrwin Levinstein.
2005.
Sensedisambiguation for preposition ?with?.
InProceedings of the Second ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on the Linguistic Dimensions ofPrepositions and their Use in ComputationalLinguistics Formalisms and Applications,pages 153?162, Colchester.Boonthum, Chutima, Shunichi Toida, andIrwin Levinstein.
2006.
Preposition senses:Generalized disambiguation model.
InProceedings of the 7th InternationalConference on Intelligent Text Processing andComputational Linguistics (CICLing-2006),pages 196?207, Mexico City.Brala, Marija M. 2000.
Understanding andtranslating (spatial) prepositions: Anexercise in cognitive semantics forlexicographic purposes.Working Papers ofthe University of Cambridge Research Centrefor English and Applied Linguistics, 7.University of Cambridge.139Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2Bre?e, D. S. and R. A. Smit.
1986.
Temporalrelations.
Journal of Semantics, 5(4):345?384.Briscoe, Ted and John Carroll.
1997.Automatic extraction of subcategorizationfrom corpora.
In Proceedings of the 5thConference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing (ANLP), pages 356?363,Washington, DC.Briscoe, Ted, John Carroll, and RebeccaWatson.
2006.
The second release of theRASP system.
In Proceedings of the PosterSession of the 21st International Conference onComputational Linguistics and 44th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (COLING/ACL 2006),pages 77?80, Sydney.Burnard, Lou.
2000.
Reference Guide for theBritish National Corpus.
Oxford UniversityComputing Services, Oxford, UK.Calvo, Hiram, Alexander Gelbukh, andAdam Kilgarriff.
2005.
Distributionalthesaurus versus WordNet: A comparisonof backoff techniques for unsupervised PPattachment.
In Proceedings of the 6thInternational Conference on Intelligent TextProcessing and Computational Linguistics(CICLing-2005), pages 177?188,Mexico City.Calzolari, Nicoletta, Charles Fillmore,Ralph Grishman, Nancy Ide, AlessandroLenci, Catherine MacLeod, andAntonio Zampolli.
2002.
Towardsbest practice for multiword expressionsin computational lexicons.
InProceedings of the 3rd InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2002), pages 1934?1940,Las Palmas.Cannesson, Emmanuelle and PatrickSaint-Dizier.
2002.
Defining andrepresenting preposition senses: Apreliminary analysis.
In Proceedingsof the ACL-02 Workshop on Word SenseDisambiguation: Recent Successesand Future Directions, pages 25?31,Philadelphia, PA.Che?liz, Mar?
?a del Carmen Horno.
2002.
Loque la Preposicio?n Esconde: Estudio Sobre laArgumentalidad Preposicional en el PredicadoVerbal.
University of Zaragoza Press,Zaragoza, Spain.
(In Spanish).Chodorow, Martin, Joel Tetreault, andNa-Rae Han.
2007.
Detection ofgrammatical errors involving prepositions.In Proceedings of the 4th ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on Prepositions, pages 25?30,Prague.Church, Kenneth and Ramesh Patil.
1982.Coping with syntactic ambiguity or howto put the block in the box on the table.American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics, 8(3?4):139?149.Collins, Michael and James Brooks.
1995.Prepositional phrase attachment through abacked-off model.
In Proceedings of the 3rdAnnual Workshop on Very Large Corpora,pages 27?38, Cambridge, MA.Cook, Paul and Suzanne Stevenson.
2006.Classifying particle semantics in Englishverb-particle constructions.
In Proceedingsof the COLING/ACL 2006 Workshop onMultiword Expressions: Identifying andExploiting Underlying Properties,pages 45?53, Sydney.Copestake, Ann, Dan Flickinger, Ivan A. Sag,and Carl Pollard.
2005.
Minimal recursionsemantics: An introduction.
Journal ofResearch on Language and Computation,3(2?3):281?332.Copestake, Ann, Fabre Lambeau, AlineVillavicencio, Francis Bond, TimothyBaldwin, Ivan Sag, and Dan Flickinger.2002.
Multiword expressions: Linguisticprecision and reusability.
In Proceedings ofthe 3rd International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2002),pages 1941?1947, Las Palmas.Cosme, Christelle and Gae?tanelle Gilquin.2008.
Free and bound prepositionsin a contrastive perspective: Thecase of with and avec.
In SylvianeGranger and Fanny Meunier, editors,Phraseology: An InterdisciplinaryPerspective.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam,pages 259?274.Cucchiarelli, Alessandro and Paola Velardi.2001.
Unsupervised named entityrecognition using syntactic and semanticcontextual evidence.
ComputationalLinguistics, 27(1):123?131.Dahlgren, Kathleen and Joyce McDowell.1986.
Using commonsense knowledgeto disambiguate prepositionalphrase modifiers.
In Proceedings ofthe 6th Conference on ArtificialIntelligence (AAAI-86), pages 589?593,Philadelphia, PA.De Felice, Rachele and Stephen G. Pulman.2007.
Automatically acquiring models ofpreposition use.
In Proceedings of the 4thACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on Prepositions,pages 45?50, Prague.Deerwester, Scott, Susan T. Dumais,George W. Furnas, Thomas K. Landauer,and Richard Harshman.
1990.
Indexing bylatent semantic analysis.
Journal of theAmerican Society of Information Science,41(6):391?407.140Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in ApplicationsDehe?, Nicole, Ray Jackendoff, AndrewMcIntyre, and Silke Urban, editors.
2002.Verb-particle explorations.
Mouton deGruyter, Berlin/New York.Denis, Pascal, Jonas Kuhn, and StephenWechsler.
2003.
V-PP goal motioncomplexes in English: An HPSG account.In Proceedings of the ACL-SIGSEMWorkshopon the Linguistic Dimensions of Prepositionsand their Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 121?132,Toulouse.Dixon, Robert M. W. 1982.
The grammar ofEnglish phrasal verbs.
Australian Journal ofLinguistics, 2:149?247.Do?mges, Florian, Tibor Kiss, Antje Mu?ller,and Claudia Roch.
2007.
Measuring theproductivity of determinerless PPs.
InProceedings of the 4th ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on Prepositions, pages 31?37,Prague.Dong, Zhendong and Qiang Dong.
2006.HowNet And the Computation of Meaning.World Scientific Publishing, RiverEdge, NJ.Dorr, Bonnie.
1993.Machine Translation: AView from the Lexicon.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.Dorr, Bonnie and Nizar Habash.
2002.Interlingua approximation: Ageneration-heavy approach.
In Proceedingsof the AMTA-2002 Interlingua ReliabilityWorkshop, Tiburon, CA.Dorr, Bonnie J.
1997.
Large-scale dictionaryconstruction for foreign language tutoringand interlingual machine translation.Machine Translation, 12(4):271?322.Dorr, Bonnie J. and Clare R. Voss.
1993.Machine translation of spatial expressions:Defining the relation between aninterlingua and a knowledgerepresentation system.
In Proceedings of the11th Annual Conference on ArtificialIntelligence (AAAI-93), pages 374?379,Washington, DC.Durrell, Martin and David Bre?e.
1993.German temporal prepositions from anEnglish perspective.
In Zelinski-Wibbelt(Zelinski-Wibbelt 1993), pages 295?326.Evert, Stefan and Brigitte Krenn.
2005.
Usingsmall random samples for the manualevaluation of statistical associationmeasures.
Computer Speech and Language,19(4):450?466.Fazly, Afsaneh, Paul Cook, and SuzanneStevenson.
2009.
Unsupervised type andtoken identification of idiomaticexpressions.
Computational Linguistics,35(1):61?103.Fellbaum, Christiane, editor.
1998.WordNet:An Electronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.Fillmore, Charles J.
1968.
The case for case.
InEmmon Bach and Robert T. Harms,editors, Universals in Linguistic Theory.Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, New York,pages 1?88.Ford, Marilyn, Joan Bresnan, and RonaldKaplan.
1982.
A competence-based theoryof syntactic closure.
In Joan Bresnan,editor, The Mental Representation ofGrammatical Relations.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA, pages 727?796.Fort, Kare?n and Bruno Guillaume.
2007.PrepLex: A lexicon of French prepositionsfor parsing.
In Proceedings of the 4thACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on Prepositions,pages 17?24, Prague.Foth, Kilian A. and Wolfgang Menzel.
2006.The benefit of stochastic PP attachment toa rule-based parser.
In Proceedings of thePoster Session of the 21st InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics and44th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (COLING/ACL2006), pages 223?230, Sydney.Franz, Alexander.
1996.
Learning PPattachment from corpus statistics.
In StefanWermter, Ellen Riloff, and GabrieleScheler, editors, Connectionist, Statistical,and Symbolic Approaches to Learning forNatural Language Processing.
Springer,Berlin, Germany, pages 188?202.Frazier, Lyn.
1979.
On ComprehendingSentences: Syntactic Parsing Strategies.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Connecticut.Furlan, Aidan, Timothy Baldwin, and AlexKlippel.
2007.
Landmark classification forroute description generation.
In Proceedingsof the 4th ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop onPrepositions, pages 9?16, Prague.Gala, Nuria and Mathieu Lafourcade.2005.
Combining corpus-based patterndistributions with lexical signaturesfor PP attachment ambiguity resolution.In Proceedings of the 6th Symposium onNatural Language Processing (SNLP-05),Chiang Rai.Gamon, Michael, Jianfeng Gao, ChrisBrockett, Alexandre Klementiev,William B. Dolan, Dmitriy Belenko, andLucy Vanderwende.
2008.
Usingcontextual speller techniques andlanguage modeling for ESL errorcorrection.
In Proceedings of the 3rdInternational Joint Conference on NaturalLanguage Processing (IJCNLP-08),pages 449?456, Hyderabad.141Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2Gaussier, Eric and Nicola Cancedda.
2001.Probabilistic models for PP-attachmentresolution and NP analysis.
In Proceedingsof the ACL/EACL-2001 Workshop onComputational Natural Language Learning(CoNLL-2001), pages 1?8, Toulouse.Girju, Roxana.
2007.
Improving theinterpretation of noun phrases withcross-linguistic information.
In Proceedingsof the 45th Annual Meeting of the ACL,pages 568?575, Prague.Girju, Roxana.
2009.
The syntax andsemantics of prepositions in the task ofautomatic interpretation of nominalphrases and compounds: A cross-linguisticstudy.
Computational Linguistics,35(2):185?228.Hahn, Udo, Martin Romacker, and StefanSchulz.
2002.
Creating knowledgerepositories from biomedical reports: TheMEDSYNDIKATE system.
In Proceedings ofthe Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing 2002,pages 338?349, Lihue, HI.Hajic?, Jan, Martin C?mejrek, Jason Eisner,Gerald Penn, Owen Rambow, DragoRadev, Yuan Ding, Terry Koo, and KristenParton.
2002.
Natural language generationin the context of machine translation.Technical report, CSLP, Johns HopkinsUniversity.
Available at www.clsp.jhu.edu/ws02/groups/mt/?MT final rpt.pdf.Hansen, Steffen Leo.
2005.
Concept-basedrepresentation of prepositions.
InProceedings of the Second ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on the Linguistic Dimensions ofPrepositions and their Use in ComputationalLinguistics Formalisms and Applications,pages 138?144, Colchester.Hartrumpf, Sven.
1999.
Hybriddisambiguation of prepositional phraseattachment and interpretation.
InProceedings of the Joint SIGDAT Conferenceon Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing and Very Large Corpora(EMNLP/VLC-99), pages 111?120,College Park, MD.Hartrumpf, Sven, Hermann Helbig, andRainer Osswald.
2006.
Semanticinterpretation of prepositions for NLPapplications.
In Proceedings of the ThirdACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on Prepositions,pages 29?36, Trento.Helbig, Hermann.
2006.
KnowledgeRepresentation and the Semantics ofNatural Language.
Springer, Dordrecht,Netherlands.Hellan, Lars and Dorothee Beermann.
2005.Classification of prepositional senses fordeep grammar applications.
In Proceedingsof the Second ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 74?83,Colchester.Hindle, Donald and Mats Rooth.
1993.Structural ambiguity and lexical relations.Computational Linguistics, 19(1):103?120.Hirst, Graeme.
1987.
Semantic Interpretationand the Resolution of Ambiguity.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, UK.Huddleston, Rodney and Geoffrey K.Pullum.
2002.
The Cambridge Grammar ofthe English Language.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, UK.Husain, Samar, Dipti Misra Sharma, andManohar Reddy.
2007.
Simple prepositioncorrespondence: A problem in English toIndian language machine translation.
InProceedings of the 4th ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on Prepositions, pages 51?58,Prague.Hying, Christian.
2007.
A corpus-basedanalysis of geometric constraints onprojective prepositions.
In Proceedingsof the 4th ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop onPrepositions, pages 1?8, Prague.Isahara, Hitoshi, Francis Bond, KiyotakaUchimoto, Masao Utiyama, and KyokoKanzaki.
2008.
Development of theJapanese WordNet.
In Proceedings of the6th International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2008),Marrakech.Izumi, Emi, Kiyotaka Uchimoto, ToyomiSaiga, Thepchai Supnithi, and HitoshiIsahara.
2003.
Automatic error detectionin the Japanese learners?
English spokendata.
In Proceedings of the 41st AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pages 145?148,Sapporo.Jackendoff, Ray.
1973.
The base rules forprepositional phrases.
In Stephen R.Anderson and Paul Kiparsky, editors, AFestschrift for Morris Halle.
Holt, Rinehart,and Winston Inc., New York,pages 345?356.Jackendoff, Ray.
1983.
Semantics andCognition.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Jackendoff, Ray.
1990.
Semantic Structures.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Jensen, Karen and Jean-Louis Binot.
1987.Disambiguating prepositional phraseattachments by using on-line dictionarydefinitions.
Computational Linguistics,13(3?4):251?260.Jensen, Per Anker and J. Fischer Nilsson.2003.
Ontology-based semantics forprepositions.
In Proceedings of the142Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in ApplicationsACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on the LinguisticDimensions of Prepositions and their Use inComputational Linguistics Formalisms andApplications, pages 193?204, Toulouse.Johnston, Michael and Frederica Busa.
1996.Qualia structure and the compositionalinterpretation of compounds.
InProceedings of the ACL SIGLEX Workshop onBreadth and Depth of Semantic Lexicons,pages 77?88, Santa Cruz, CA.J?rgensen, Fredrik and Jan Tore L?nning.2009.
A minimal recursion semanticanalysis of locatives.
ComputationalLinguistics, 35(2):229?270.Kamp, Hans.
1981.
Theory of truth andsemantic representation.
In B. J. Janssenand T. M. V. Stokhof, editors, FormalMethods in the Study of Language.Mathematisch Centrum, Amsterdam,pages 277?322.Kelleher, John and Josef van Genabith.
2003.A computational model of the referentialsemantics of projective prepositions.
InProceedings of the ACL-SIGSEMWorkshopon the Linguistic Dimensions of Prepositionsand their Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 181?192,Toulouse.Kelleher, John D. and Fintan J. Costello.2009.
Applying computational models ofspatial prepositions to visually situateddialog.
Computational Linguistics,35(2):271?306.Kelleher, John D. and Geert-Jan M. Kruijff.2005.
A context-dependent model ofproximity in physically situatedenvironments.
In Proceedings of theSecond ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 128?137,Colchester.Kim, Su Nam and Timothy Baldwin.
2006.Automatic identification of English verbparticle constructions using linguisticfeatures.
In Proceedings of the ThirdACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on Prepositions,pages 65?72, Trento.Kim, Su Nam and Timothy Baldwin.
2007.Detecting compositionality of Englishverb-particle constructions using semanticsimilarity.
In Proceedings of the 7th Meetingof the Pacific Association for ComputationalLinguistics (PACLING 2007), pages 40?48,Melbourne.Kim, Su Nam and Timothy Baldwin (inpress).
How to pick out token instances ofEnglish verb-particle constructions.Language Resources and Evaluation.Kipper, Karin, Hoa Trang Dang, and MarthaPalmer.
2000.
Class-based construction of averb lexicon.
In Proceedings of the 18thAnnual Conference on Artificial Intelligence(AAAI-2000), pages 691?696, Austin, TX.Kipper, Karin, Benjamin Snyder, and MarthaPalmer.
2004.
Using prepositions to extenda verb lexicon.
In Proceedings of theHLT-NAACL 2004 Workshop onComputational Lexical Semantics,pages 23?29, Boston, MA.Kipper Schuler, Karin.
2005.
VerbNet: ABroad-coverage, Comprehensive Verb Lexicon.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Pennsylvania.Klein, Dan and Christopher D. Manning.2003.
Accurate unlexicalized parsing.
InProceedings of the 41st Annual Meeting of theACL, pages 423?430, Sapporo.Knas?, Iwona.
2006.
Polish equivalents ofspatial at.
In Proceedings of the ThirdACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on Prepositions,pages 9?16, Trento.Kokkinakis, Dimitris.
2000.
SupervisedPP-attachment for Swedish: Combiningunsupervised and supervised trainingdata.
Nordic Journal of Linguistics,3(2):191?213.Kordoni, Valia.
2003a.
The key role ofsemantics in the development oflarge-scale grammars of natural language.In Proceedings of the 10th Conference of theEACL (EACL 2003), pages 111?14,Budapest.Kordoni, Valia.
2003b.
A robust deep analysisof indirect prepositional arguments.
InProceedings of the ACL-SIGSEMWorkshopon the Linguistic Dimensions of Prepositionsand their Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 112?120,Toulouse.Kordoni, Valia.
2006.
Prepositionalarguments in a multilingual context.
InSaint-Dizier (Saint-Dizier 2006a).Korhonen, Anna.
2002.
SubcategorizationAcquisition.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofCambridge.Kozareva, Zornitsa.
2006.
Bootstrappingnamed entity recognition withautomatically generated gazetteer lists.
InProceedings of the EACL 2006 StudentResearch Workshop, pages 15?21, Trento.Kracht, Marcus.
2003.
Directionalityselection.
In Proceedings of theACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on the LinguisticDimensions of Prepositions and their Use inComputational Linguistics Formalisms andApplications, pages 89?100, Toulouse.Krenn, Brigitte.
2008.
Description ofevaluation resource?German PP-verb143Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2data.
In Proceedings of the LREC 2008Workshop: Towards a Shared Task forMultiword Expressions (MWE 2008),pages 7?10, Marrakech.Krenn, Brigitte and Stefan Evert.
2001.
Canwe do better than frequency?
A case studyon extracting PP-verb collocations.
InProceedings of the ACL/EACL 2001 Workshopon the Computational Extraction, Analysisand Exploitation of Collocations, pages 39?46,Toulouse.Kumar Naskar, Sudip and SivajiBandyopadhyay.
2006.
Handling ofprepositions in English to Bengali machinetranslation.
In Proceedings of the ThirdACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on Prepositions,pages 89?94, Trento.Lassen, Tine.
2006.
An ontology-based viewof prepositional senses.
In Proceedings of theThird ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop onPrepositions, pages 45?50, Trento.Lauer, Mark.
1995.
Designing StatisticalLanguage Learners: Experiments on NounCompounds.
Ph.D. thesis, MacquarieUniversity.Leroy, Gondy and Hsinchun Chen.
2002.Filling preposition-based templates tocapture information from medicalabstracts.
In Proceedings of the PacificSymposium on Biocomputing 2002,pages 350?61, Lihue, HI.Leroy, Gondy, Hsinchun Chen, and Jesse D.Martinez.
2003.
A shallow parser based onclosed-class words to capture relations inbiomedical text.
Journal of BiomedicalInformatics, 36:145?158.Lersundi, Mikel and Eneko Agirre.
2003.Semantic interpretations of postpositionsand prepositions: A multilingual inventoryfor Basque, English and Spanish.
InProceedings of the ACL-SIGSEMWorkshopon the Linguistic Dimensions of Prepositionsand Their Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 56?65,Toulouse.Lestrade, S. A. M. 2006.
Marked adpositions.In Proceedings of the Third ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on Prepositions, pages 23?28,Trento.Levi, Judith N. 1978.
The Syntax and Semanticsof Complex Nominals.
Academic Press,New York.Levin, Beth and Malka Rappaport-Hovav (inpress).
Lexical conceptual structure.
InClaudia Maienborn, Klaus von Heusinger,and Paul Portner, editors, Semantics: AnInternational Handbook of Natural LanguageMeaning.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin,Germany.Li, Wei, Xiuhong Zhang, Cheng Niu, YuankaiJiang, and Rohini K. Srihari.
2003.
Anexpert lexicon approach to identifyingEnglish phrasal verbs.
In Proceedings of the41st Annual Meeting of the ACL,pages 513?520, Sapporo.Lin, Dekang.
1998.
Automatic retrievaland clustering of similar words.
InProceedings of the 36th Annual Meetingof the ACL and 17th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics(COLING/ACL-98), pages 768?774,Montreal.Lin, Dekang.
2003.
Dependency-basedevaluation of MINIPAR.
In Anne Abeille?,editor, Building and Using SyntacticallyAnnotated Corpora.
Kluwer, Dordrecht,Netherlands, pages 317?330.Lindstromberg, Seth.
1998.
EnglishPrepositions Explained.
John Benjamins,Amsterdam, Netherlands.Lindstromberg, Seth.
2001.
Prepositionentries in UK monolingual learner?sdictionaries: Problems and possiblesolutions.
Applied Linguistics, 22(1):79?103.Litkowski, Ken and Orin Hargraves.
2005.The Preposition Project.
In Proceedings ofthe Second ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 171?179,Colchester.Litkowski, Kenneth C. 2002.
Digraphanalysis of dictionary prepositiondefinitions.
In Proceedings of the ACL-02Workshop on Word Sense Disambiguation:Recent Successes and Future Directions,pages 9?16, Philadelphia, PA.Litkowski, Kenneth C. and Orin Hargraves.2006.
Coverage and inheritance in thepreposition project.
In Proceedings of theThird ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop onPrepositions, pages 37?44, Trento.Litkowski, Kenneth C. and Orin Hargraves.2007.
SemEval-2007 task 06: Word-sensedisambiguation of prepositions.
InProceedings of the 4th International Workshopon Semantic Evaluations, pages 24?29,Prague.MacKinlay, Andrew and Timothy Baldwin.2005.
POS tagging with a more informativetagset.
In Proceedings of the AustralasianLanguage Technology Workshop 2005,pages 40?48, Sydney.Manning, Christopher D. 1993.
Automaticacquisition of a large subcategorizationdictionary from corpora.
In Proceedings ofthe 31st Annual Meeting of the ACL,pages 235?242, Columbus, OH.144Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in ApplicationsManning, Christopher D., PrabhakarRaghavan, and Hinrich Schu?tze.
2008.Introduction to Information Retrieval.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,UK.Marcus, Mitchell P., Beatrice Santorini, andMary Ann Marcinkiewicz.
1993.
Building alarge annotated corpus of English: thePenn treebank.
Computational Linguistics,19(2):313?330.McCarthy, Diana, Bill Keller, and JohnCarroll.
2003.
Detecting a continuum ofcompositionality in phrasal verbs.
InProceedings of the ACL-2003 Workshop onMultiword Expressions: Analysis,Acquisition and Treatment, pages 73?80,Sapporo.Merlo, Paola.
2003.
GeneralisedPP-attachment disambiguation usingcorpus-based linguistic diagnostics.
InProceedings of the 10th Conference of theEACL (EACL 2003), pages 251?258,Budapest.Merlo, Paola, Matthew W. Crocker, andCathy Berthouzoz.
1997.
Attachingmultiple prepositional phrases:Generalized backed-off estimation.
InProceedings of the 2nd Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing (EMNLP-97), pages 149?155,Providence, RI.Merlo, Paola and Eva Esteve Ferrer.
2006.The notion of argument in prepositionalphrase attachment.
ComputationalLinguistics, 32(3):341?377.Miller, George A. and Philip N.Johnson-Laird.
1976.
Language andPerception.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, UK.Mitchell, Brian.
2004.
Prepositional PhraseAttachment Using Machine LearningAlgorithms.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofSheffield.Muischnek, Kadri, Kaili Mu?u?risep, and TiinaPuolakainen.
2005.
Adpositions inEstonian computational syntax.
InProceedings of the Second ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on the Linguistic Dimensions ofPrepositions and their Use in ComputationalLinguistics Formalisms and Applications,pages 2?10, Colchester.Muslea, Ion.
1999.
Extraction patterns forinformation extraction tasks: A survey.
InProceedings of the AAAI-99 Workshop onMachine Learning for Information Extraction,pages 1?6, Orlando, FL.Nu?bel, Rita.
1996.
Knowledge sources for thedisambiguation of prepositions in machinetranslation.
In Proceedings of the PRICAI-96Workshop on Future Issues for Multi-lingualText Processing, Cairns.
Available atftp://ftp.mpce.mq.edu.au/pub/comp/mri/nlp/fimtp/nuebel.ps.gz.Odijk, Jan. 2004.
Reusable lexicalrepresentations for idioms.
In Proceedingsof the 4th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC2004), pages 903?906, Lisbon.O?Hara, Tom and Janyce Wiebe.
2003.Preposition semantic classification viaTreebank and FrameNet.
In Proceedings ofthe 7th Conference on Natural LanguageLearning (CoNLL-2003), pages 79?86,Edmonton.O?Hara, Tom and Janyce Wiebe.
2009.Exploiting semantic role resources forpreposition disambiguation.
ComputationalLinguistics, 35(2):151?184.Old, L. John.
2003.
An analysis of semanticoverlap among English prepositionsfrom the Roget?s Thesaurus.
In Proceedingsof the ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 13?19,Toulouse.Olteanu, Marian and Dan Moldovan.
2005.PP-attachment disambiguation using largecontext.
In Proceedings of the 2005Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing (EMNLP 2005),pages 273?280, Vancouver.Olteanu, Marian G. 2004.
Prepositionalphrase attachment ambiguity resolutionthrough a rich syntactic, lexical andsemantic set of features applied in supportvector machines learner.
Master?s thesis,University of Texas, Dallas.Ono, Toshihide, Haretsugu Hishigaki, AkiraTanigami, and Toshihisa Takagi.
2001.Automated extraction of information onprotein-protein interactions from thebiological literature.
Bioinformatics,17(2):155?161.Pantel, Patrick and Dekang Lin.
2000.
Anunsupervised approach to prepositionalphrase attachment using contextuallysimilar words.
In Proceedings of the 38thAnnual Meeting of the ACL, pages 101?108,Hong Kong.Patrick, Jon and Jeremy Fletcher.
2005.Classifying verb particle constructions byverb arguments.
In Proceedings of theSecond ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 200?209,Colchester.145Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2Pearsall, Judy, editor.
1998.
The New OxfordDictionary of English.
Clarendon Press,Oxford, UK.Pecina, Pavel.
2008.
A machine learningapproach to multiword expressionextraction.
In Proceedings of the LREC 2008Workshop: Towards a Shared Task forMultiword Expressions (MWE 2008),pages 54?57, Marrakech.Pereira, Fernando C. N. 1985.
A newcharacterization of attachment preferences.In David R. Dowty, Lauri Karttunen, andArnold M. Zwicky, editors, NaturalLanguage Parsing: Psychological,Computational and Theoretical Perspectives.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,UK, pages 307?319.Popescu, Octavian, Sara Tonelli, andEmanuele Pianta.
2007.
IRST-BP:Preposition disambiguation based onchain clarifying relationships contexts.
InProceedings of the 4th International Workshopon Semantic Evaluations, pages 191?194,Prague.Pratt, Ian and Nissim Francez.
1997.
On thesemantics of temporal prepositions andpreposition phrases.
Technical ReportLCL9701, Computer Science Department,Technion, Haifa, Israel.Pustejovsky, J., J. Castano, R.
Saur??,A.
Rumshinsky, J. Zhang, and W. Luo.2002.
Medstract: Creating large-scaleinformation servers for biomedicallibraries.
In Proceedings of the ACL 2002Workshop on Natural Language Processing inthe Biomedical Domain, pages 85?92,Philadelphia, PA.Pustejovsky, James.
1995.
The GenerativeLexicon.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Quirk, Chris, Arul Menezes, and ColinCherry.
2005.
Dependency treelettranslation: Syntactically informed phrasalSMT.
In Proceedings of the 43rd AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pages 271?279, AnnArbor, MI.Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum,Geoffrey Leech, and Jan Svartvik.
1985.
AComprehensive Grammar of the EnglishLanguage.
Longman, London.Ramsay, Allan.
2005.
Prepositions asabstract relations.
In Proceedings of theSecond ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 30?38,Colchester.Ratnaparkhi, Adwait, Jeff Reynar, and SalimRoukos.
1994.
A maximum entropy modelfor prepositional phrase attachment.
InProceedings of the ARPA Human LanguageTechnology Workshop, pages 250?255,Princeton, NJ.Rauh, Gisa.
1993.
On the grammar of lexicaland non-lexical prepositions in English.
InZelinski-Wibbelt (Zelinski-Wibbelt 1993),pages 99?150.Rehbein, Ines and Josef van Genabith.
2006.German particle verbs and pleonasticprepositions.
In Proceedings of the ThirdACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on Prepositions,pages 57?64, Trento.Reichelt, Thorsten and Etienne Verleih.
2005.B3D?a system for the description andcalculation of spatial prepositions.
InProceedings of the Second ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on the Linguistic Dimensions ofPrepositions and their Use in ComputationalLinguistics Formalisms and Applications,pages 101?109, Colchester.Resnik, Philip and Mona Diab.
2000.Measuring verb similarity.
In Proceedings ofthe 22nd Annual Meeting of the CognitiveScience Society (CogSci 2000),pages 399?404, Philadelphia, PA.Resnik, Philip and Marti A. Hearst.
1993.Structural ambiguity and conceptualrelations.
In Proceedings of the Workshop onVery Large Corpora: Academic and IndustrialPerspectives, pages 58?64, Columbus, OH.Richards, Barry, Inge Bethke, Jaap van derDoes, and Jon Oberlander.
1989.
TemporalRepresentation and Inference.
AcademicPress, London.Riloff, Ellen.
1995.
Little words can make abig difference for text classification.
InProceedings of 18th International ACM-SIGIRConference on Research and Development inInformation Retrieval (SIGIR?95),pages 130?136, Seattle, WA.Ro?hrer, Christian.
1977.
How to definetemporal conjunctions.
LinguistischeBerichte Braunschweig, 51:1?11.Sablayrolles, Pierre.
1995.
The semantics ofmotion.
In Proceedings of the 7th Conferenceof the European Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (EACL?95),pages 281?283, Dublin.Sag, Ivan, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond,Ann Copestake, and Dan Flickinger.2002.
Multiword expressions: A painin the neck for NLP.
In Proceedings of the3rd International Conference on IntelligentText Processing and ComputationalLinguistics (CICLing-2002), pages 1?15,Mexico City.Saint-Dizier, Patrick.
2005.
An overview ofPrepNet: abstract notions, frames andinferential patterns.
In Proceedings of the146Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in ApplicationsSecond ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 155?169,Colchester.Saint-Dizier, Patrick, editor.
2006a.Computational Linguistics Dimensions ofSyntax and Semantics of Prepositions.Kluwer Academic, Dordrecht,Netherlands.Saint-Dizier, Patrick.
2006b.
PrepNet: amultilingual lexical description ofprepositions.
In Proceedings of the 5thInternational Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2006),pages 877?885, Genoa.Saint-Dizier, Patrick.
2008.
Syntactic andsemantic frames in PrepNet.
In Proceedingsof the 3rd International Joint Conference onNatural Language Processing (IJCNLP-08),pages 763?768, Hyderabad.Saint-Dizier, Patrick and Gloria Vazquez.2001.
A compositional framework forprepositions.
In Proceedings of the FourthInternational Workshop on ComputationalSemantics (IWCS-4), pages 165?179,Tilburg.Schulte im Walde, Sabine.
2004.Identification, quantitative description,and preliminary distributional analysis ofGerman particle verbs.
In Proceedings of theCOLING Workshop on Enhancing and UsingElectronic Dictionaries, pages 85?88, Geneva.Schuman, Jonathan and Sabine Bergler.
2006.Postnominal prepositional phraseattachment in proteomics.
In Proceedings ofthe HLT-NAACL 06 BioNLP Workshop onLinking Natural Language Processing andBiology, pages 82?89, New York.Schu?tze, Carson.
1995.
PP attachment andargumenthood.
In Carson T. Schu?tze,Jennifer B. Ganger, and Kevin Broihier,editors, Papers on Language Processing andAcquisition, volume 26.
MIT WorkingPapers in Linguistics, Cambridge, MA,pages 95?152.Schwartz, Lee, Takako Aikawa, and ChrisQuirk.
2003.
Disambiguation of English PPattachment using multilingual aligneddata.
In Proceedings of the Ninth MachineTranslation Summit (MT Summit IX), NewOrleans, LA.
Available at www.amtaweb.org/summit/MTSummit/FinalPapers/39-Aikawa-final.pdf.Shaked, Nava A.
1993.
How do we count?The problem of tagging phrasal verbs inparts.
In Proceedings of the 31st AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pages 289?291,Columbus, OH.Sharoff, Serge.
2004.
What is at stake: A casestudy of Russian expressions starting witha preposition.
In Proceedings of the ACL2004 Workshop on Multiword Expressions:Integrating Processing, pages 17?23,Barcelona.Sopena, Josep M., Agusti Lloberas, andJoan L. Moliner.
1998.
A connectionistapproach to prepositional phraseattachment for real world texts.
InProceedings of the 36th Annual Meeting of theACL and 17th International Conference onComputational Linguistics(COLING/ACL-98), pages 1233?1237,Montreal.Spa?rck Jones, Karen and Branimir Boguraev.1987.
A note on a study of cases.Computational Linguistics, 13(1?2):65?8.Spivey-Knowlton, Michael and Julie C.Sedivy.
1995.
Resolving attachmentambiguities with multiple constraints.Cognition, 55:227?267.Srihari, Rohini, Cheng Niu, and Wei Li.
2000.A hybrid approach for named entity andsub-type tagging.
In Proceedings of the 6thConference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing (ANLP), pages 247?254, Seattle,WA.Stamou, Sofia, Kemal Oflazer, Karel Pala,Dimitris Christoudoulakis, Dan Cristea,Dan Tufi Svetla Koeva, George Totkov,Dominique Dutoit, and MariaGrigoriadou.
2002.
BALKANET: Amultilingual semantic network for theBalkan languages.
In Proceedings of theInternational Wordnet Conference,pages 12?14, Mysore.Stetina, Jiri and Makoto Nagao.
1997.Corpus based PP attachment ambiguityresolution with a semantic dictionary.In Proceedings of the 5th Annual Workshopon Very Large Corpora, pages 66?80,Hong Kong.Talmy, Len.
1985.
Lexicalization patterns:Semantic structure in lexical forms.
InTimothy Shopen, editor, GrammaticalCategories and the Lexicon.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, UK,pages 57?149.Talmy, Leonard.
1988.
Force dynamics inlanguage and cognition.
Cognitive Science,12:49?100.Tetreault, Joel R. and Martin Chodorow.2008a.
Native judgments of non-nativeusage: Experiments in preposition errordetection.
In Coling 2008: Proceedings of theWorkshop on Human Judgements inComputational Linguistics, pages 24?32,Manchester.147Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2Tetreault, Joel R. and Martin Chodorow.2008b.
The ups and downs of prepositionerror detection in ESL writing.
InProceedings of the 22nd InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics(COLING 2008), pages 865?872,Manchester.Tokunaga, Takenobu, Tomofumi Koyama,and Suguru Saito.
2005.
Meaning ofJapanese spatial nouns.
In Proceedings of theSecond ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 93?100,Colchester.Toral, Antonio.
2005.
DRAMNERI: A freeknowledge based tool to named entityrecognition.
In Proceedings of the First FreeSoftware Technologies Conference,pages 27?32, Corunna.Toutanova, Kristina and Christoper D.Manning.
2000.
Enriching the knowledgesources used in a maximum entropypart-of-speech tagger.
In Proceedings of theJoint SIGDAT Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing andVery Large Corpora (EMNLP/VLC-2000),pages 63?70, Hong Kong.Toutanova, Kristina, Christopher D.Manning, and Andrew Y. Ng.
2004.Learning random walk models forinducing word dependency distributions.In Proceedings of the 21st InternationalConference on Machine Learning,pages 815?822, Banff.Toutanova, Kristina and Hisami Suzuki.2007.
Generating case markers inmachine translation.
In Proceedings ofHuman Language Technologies 2007: TheConference of the North American Chapter ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 49?56, Rochester, NY.Trawin?ski, Beata.
2003.
Combinatorialaspects of PPs headed by raisingprepositions.
In Proceedings of theACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on the LinguisticDimensions of Prepositions and their Use inComputational Linguistics Formalisms andApplications, pages 157?168, Toulouse.Trawin?ski, Beata.
2005.
Preposition?pronouncontraction in Polish.
In Proceedings of theSecond ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 20?29,Colchester.Trawin?ski, Beata.
2006.
A quantitativeapproach to preposition-pronouncontraction in Polish.
In Proceedings of theThird ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop onPrepositions, pages 17?22, Trento.Trawinski, Beata, Manfred Sailer, andJan-Philipp Soehn.
2006.
Combinatorialaspects of collocational prepositionalphrases.
In Saint-Dizier (Saint-Dizier2006a).Trujillo, Arturo.
1995.
Lexicalist MachineTranslation of Spatial Prepositions.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Cambridge.Tseng, Jesse.
2004.
Prepositions andcomplement selection.
In Proceedings of theSecond ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 11?19,Colchester.Tseng, Jesse L. 2000.
The Representation andSelection of Prepositions.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Edinburgh.Tyler, Andrea and Vyvyan Evans.
2003.
TheSemantics of English Prepositions: SpatialScenes, Embodied Meaning, and Cognition.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,UK.van der Beek, Leonoor.
2005.
The extractionof determinerless PPs.
In Proceedings of theSecond ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop on theLinguistic Dimensions of Prepositions andtheir Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 190?199,Colchester.van Herwijnen, Olga, Jacques Terken, Antalvan den Bosch, and Erwin Marsi.
2003.Learning PP attachment for filteringprosodic phrasing.
In Proceedings of the 10thConference of the EACL (EACL 2003),pages 139?146, Budapest.Villada Moiro?n, Begon?a.
2005.
Data-drivenidentification of fixed expressions and theirmodifiability.
Ph.D. thesis, Alfa-Informatica,University of Groningen.Villavicencio, Aline.
2005.
The availability ofverb-particle constructions in lexicalresources: How much is enough?
ComputerSpeech and Language, 19(4):415?432.Villavicencio, Aline.
2006.
Verb-particleconstructions in the World Wide Web.
InSaint-Dizier (2006a).Volk, Martin.
2001.
Exploiting the WWW as acorpus to resolve PP attachmentambiguities.
In Proceedings of CorpusLinguistics 2001, pages 601?606, Lancaster.Volk, Martin.
2002.
Combining unsupervisedand supervised methods for PPattachment disambiguation.
In Proceedingsof the 19th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING 2002),pages 1?7, Taipei.148Baldwin, Kordoni, and Villavicencio A Survey of Prepositions in ApplicationsVolk, Martin.
2003.
German prepositions andtheir kin.
A survey with respect to theresolution of PP attachment ambiguities.In Proceedings of the ACL-SIGSEMWorkshopon the Linguistic Dimensions of Prepositionsand their Use in Computational LinguisticsFormalisms and Applications, pages 77?85,Toulouse.Volk, Martin.
2006.
How bad is the problemof PP-attachment?
A comparison of English,German, and Swedish.
In Proceedings of theThird ACL-SIGSEMWorkshop onPrepositions, pages 81?88, Trento.Vossen, Piek, editor.
1998.
EuroWordNet: AMultilingual Database with Lexical SemanticNetworks.
Kluwer Academic, Dordrecht,Netherlands.Wasow, Thomas.
2002.
Postverbal Behavior.CSLI Publications, Stanford, CA.Whittemore, Greg and Kathleen Ferrara.1990.
Empirical study of predictive powersof simple attachment schemes forpost-modifier prepositional phrases.
InProceedings of the 28th Annual Meeting of theACL, pages 23?30, Pittsburgh, PA.Wilks, Yorick, Xiuming Huang, and DanFass.
1985.
Syntax, preference and rightattachment.
In Proceedings of the 9thInternational Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence (IJCAI-85), pages 779?784, LosAngeles, CA.Wood, Frederick T. 1979.
English PrepositionalIdioms.
Macmillan, London.Xu, Yilun Dianna and Norman I. Badler.2000.
Algorithms for generating motiontrajectories described by prepositions.
InProceedings of Computer Animation 2000(CA?00), pages 30?35, Washington, DC.Ye, Patrick and Timothy Baldwin.
2006.Semantic role labeling of prepositionalphrases.
ACM Transactions on AsianLanguage Information Processing,5(3):228?244.Ye, Patrick and Timothy Baldwin.
2007.MELB-YB: Preposition sensedisambiguation using rich semanticfeatures.
In Proceedings of the 4thInternational Workshop on SemanticEvaluations, pages 241?244, Prague.Yeh, Alexander S. and Marc B. Vilain.1998.
Some properties of prepositionand subordinate conjunctionattachments.
In Proceedings of the 36thAnnual Meeting of the ACL and 17thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics: COLING/ACL-98,pages 1436?1442, Montreal.Yuret, Deniz.
2007.
KU: Word sensedisambiguation by substitution.
InProceedings of the 4th International Workshopon Semantic Evaluations, pages 207?214,Prague.Zavrel, Jakub, Walter Daelemans, andJorn Veenstra.
1997.
Resolving PPattachment ambiguities withmemory-based learning.
In Proceedingsof the Conference on ComputationalNatural Language Learning (CoNLL-97),pages 136?144, Madrid.Zelinski-Wibbelt, Cornelia, editor.
1993.The Semantics of Prepositions: FromMental Processing to Natural LanguageProcessing.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin,Germany.Zhao, Shaojun and Dekang Lin.
2004.
Anearest-neighbor method for resolvingPP-attachment ambiguity.
In Proceedings ofthe First International Joint Conference onNatural Language Processing (IJCNLP-04),pages 545?554, Hainan Island.149
