Book ReviewIntroduction to Information RetrievalChristopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, and Hinrich Schu?tze(Stanford University, Yahoo!
Research, and University of Stuttgart)Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2008, xxi+482 pp; hardbound,ISBN 978-0-521-86571-5, $60.00Reviewed byOlga VechtomovaUniversity of WaterlooIntroduction to Information Retrieval by Manning, Raghavan, and Schu?tze is an up-to-date, thorough, and systematic introduction to information retrieval (IR) from a com-puter science perspective.
Written as a textbook, its main audience is graduate andsenior undergraduate students taking IR courses.
The book will also be valuable toresearchers in other computer science fields, such as computational linguistics, as wellas to professional practitioners wishing to delve into the IR field.The book is structured into 21 chapters, which gradually unfold the subject of infor-mation retrieval, starting with the fundamentals (such as Boolean retrieval, documentindexing, vector-space model, and evaluation in IR) and moving on to more advancedtopics (such as probabilistic models, XML retrieval, text classification, machine learningfor IR, document clustering, and Web retrieval).
Pedagogical features of the book in-clude short exercises at the end of each section and brief overviews of related researchliterature at the end of each chapter.
Some of the major strengths of the book are itsaccessibility, clarity, and good balance between theory and practice.
There are manyconcrete examples throughout the book that facilitate understanding of complex topics.Although the book covers a broad selection of the major established and emergingtopics in IR, it largely bypasses two important subjects, in my opinion: natural languageprocessing techniques in IR and interactive information retrieval.
Although the authorsrefer to some research done in these areas in various chapters, they do not give themthe same thorough treatment given to other topics in the book.
To compensate, in thepreface the authors provide references to the detailed coverage of these and some othertopics in other textbooks.
It also might have been useful if the authors introduced somespecialized IR tasks, such as opinion retrieval or enterprise search, which might benefitfrom more advanced NLP techniques.Chapter 1 gives a succinct and focused introduction to the main concepts in IR,such as term, index, document, query, recall, precision, and so on.
It outlines the mainprinciples of Boolean retrieval, briefly criticizes it, and compares it to ranked retrieval.The authors also present a good real-world example of a commercial Boolean retrievalsystem.Chapter 2 provides a detailed discussion of the initial stages of the documentindexing process that include tokenization, stemming and lemmatization, stopwordsremoval, and approaches to dealing with phrases at the indexing stage, namely bi-gram indexing and the use of positional indexes.
In this chapter the authors discusssome linguistic aspects of these processes.
For example, when examining tokenization,they discuss various morphological and other aspects of languages that complicatethis process (e.g., hyphenation in English, compound nouns in German, and wordComputational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 2sequences in East Asian languages).
A brief outline of word segmentation approachesis provided.
The authors also give a very good summary of the key relevant researchworks in these areas at the end of the chapter.In Chapters 3, 4, and 5 the authors discuss data structures for indexes, index con-struction, and compression.
These three chapters will most likely be of least interest tothe computational linguistics community.
However, two topics that might be of interestare the use of wildcard queries by users and spelling correction of queries, discussedin Chapter 3.
In their discussion of wildcard queries, the authors examine only theuse of wildcards in queries to represent different morphological variants of a word(e.g., American vs. British), the user?s uncertainty in the correct spelling of a word, andstemmedwords (e.g., judicia* to represent both judicial and judiciary).
It would have beeninteresting if the authors also discussed the use of wildcards to represent entire words,since some commercial search engines started to provide this functionality, allowingusers to search for a phrase with a user-specified number of words in the middle (e.g.,the use of fine * me to represent fine by me, fine with me, and fine for me).Chapters 6 and 7 introduce the fundamentals of ranked document retrieval, termfrequency and inverse document frequency, and the vector-space model.
The authorsbriefly touch upon phrase queries, and how they can be handled by the vector-spacemodel.
Phrase or proximity-based retrieval is an important problem in IR, but unfor-tunately, the authors do not discuss in detail different approaches to proximity-basedterm weighting.Chapter 8 is devoted to evaluation in IR, and presents major evaluation frame-works, such as the Text Retrieval Conference (TREC) and classical evaluation measures,such as mean average precision, precision at different cutoff points, as well as themore recently developed measure NDCG (normalized discounted cumulative gain)for evaluation with graded (non-binary) relevance judgments.
The penultimate sectionin the chapter discusses various approaches to presenting retrieved documents in theranked list shown to the user, such as snippets, and query-independent and query-biased document summaries.Chapter 9 reviews relevance feedback and query expansion.
Query expansion (QE)following relevance feedback is one of the most effective techniques in IR.
The authorsprovide an overview of the main types of QE: local, whereby the query is modifiedon the basis of retrieved documents, and global, which is query independent.
Amongthe local methods, they introduce here the classic Rocchio algorithm.
Probabilisticapproaches to query expansion following relevance feedback are discussed in detailin Chapter 11 after the authors introduce probabilistic models of IR.
Query expansionfollowing relevance feedback can be either automatic (AQE), whereby the system selectsterms and adds them to the query, or interactive (IQE), whereby the selected terms areshown to the user for further selection.
The authors only discuss AQE in the contextof relevance feedback.
Among the global QE methods, they mention the use of manualand automatically generated thesauri, as well as approaches to QE on the Web, such assuggestion of related queries.Chapter 10 discusses XML retrieval, including such topics as a vector-space modelfor XML retrieval and INEX (Initiative for the Evaluation of XML retrieval), the mainevaluation framework for XML retrieval.Chapters 11 and 12 focus on probabilistic information retrieval and language mod-eling, respectively.
Chapter 11 introduces the theoretical underpinnings of probabilisticIR models, and describes the Robertson and Spa?rck Jones probabilistic model and theBM25 term weighting function.
Chapter 12 starts by describing the basic approach tolanguage modeling in IR and then reviews some of its extensions.308Book ReviewChapters 13, 14, and 15 discuss approaches to text classification, starting with naiveBayes classification, and then moving on to vector-space classification and support vec-tor machines.
All topics are presented in sufficient detail, supplemented with referencesto the key papers in these areas.In Chapters 16 and 17 the authors introduce document clustering.
Flat clusteringmethods (K-means and expectation maximization) and clustering evaluation methodsare discussed in Chapter 16, and Chapter 17 is devoted to hierarchical clustering.
Here,the authors present different agglomerative clustering algorithms, such as single-link,complete-link, group-average, and centroid similarity, as well as top?down (divisive)hierarchical clustering.
An important problem in clustering is the labeling of clusters.The authors discuss and compare two approaches to labeling: differential cluster la-beling, where label terms are selected on the basis of their distribution in one clustercompared to the others, and cluster-internal labeling, where a label is selected only onthe basis of the cluster being labeled.Chapter 18 introduces latent semantic indexing.
This is a rather theoretical chapter,and readers might have benefited from a more extensive discussion of the use andpractical applications of LSI.The remaining three chapters are devoted to Web-based IR.
Among the topicsdiscussed are spam, types of user information needs, Web crawling and indexing, link-based approaches to document ranking such as PageRank, Markov chains, and hubsand authorities.To sum up, Introduction to Information Retrieval is a comprehensive, authoritative,and well-written overview of the main topics in IR.
The book offers a good balanceof theory and practice, and is an excellent self-contained introductory text for thosenew to IR.
Although the book does not cover advanced NLP techniques for IR, it isrecommended for experts in computational linguistics who wish to learn about IR.Although many computational linguists are familiar with the material covered in thechapters on text classification, they will most certainly find chapters on different IRmodels and methods very useful.Olga Vechtomova is an Associate Professor in the Department of Management Sciences, cross-appointed in the David R. Cheriton School of Computer Science, University of Waterloo, Canada.She received her PhD in Information Science from City University, London in 2001.
Her interestsare in query expansion, relevance feedback, lexical cohesion, applications of natural languageprocessing techniques to IR, and user interaction with IR systems.
Vechtomova?s address is: De-partment ofManagement Sciences, Faculty of Engineering, University ofWaterloo, 200 UniversityAvenue West, Waterloo, ON, N2L 3G1, Canada; e-mail: ovechtom@engmail.uwaterloo.ca.309
