Book ReviewDiscourse on the Move: Using Corpus Analysis to DescribeDiscourse StructureDouglas Biber, Ulla Connor, and Thomas A. Upton(Northern Arizona University and Indiana University?Indianapolis)John Benjamins Publishing (Studies in corpus linguistics, edited by ElenaTognini-Bonelli, volume 28), 2007, xii+289 pp; hardbound, ISBN 978-90-272-2302-9,$142.00, ?105.00Reviewed byMarina SantiniUniversity of GlasgowThe study of discourse can be undertaken from different perspectives (e.g., linguistic,cognitive, or computational) with differing purposes in mind (e.g., to study languageuse or to analyze social practices).
The aim of Discourse on the Move is to show thatit is possible and profitable to join quantitative and qualitative analyses to study dis-course structures.
Whereas corpus-based quantitative discourse analysis focuses onthe distributional discourse patterns of a corpus as a whole with no indication ofhow patterns are distributed in individual texts, manual qualitative analysis is alwayscarried out on a small number of texts and does not support large generalizations of thefindings.
The book proposes two methodological approaches?top-down and bottom-up?that combine the quantitative and qualitative views into a corpus-based descriptionof discourse organization.
Such a description provides detailed analyses of individualtexts and the generalization of these analyses across all the texts of a genre-specificcorpus.Top-down is the more traditional (not necessarily corpus-based) approach in whichresearchers establish functional?qualitative methods to develop an analytical frame-work capable of describing the types of discourse units in a target corpus.
In thisapproach, linguistic?quantitative analyses come as a later step to facilitate the interpre-tation of discourse types.
In contrast, the bottom-up approach begins with a linguistic?quantitative analysis based on the automatic segmentation of texts into discourse unitson the basis of vocabulary distributional patterns.
In this approach, the functional?qualitative analysis that provides an interpretation of the discourse types is performedas a later step.Both top-down and bottom-up analyses can be broken down into seven proceduralsteps, but the order of the steps in the two approaches is not the same.
The steps to befollowed in top-down methods are these:1.
Determination of communicative/functional categories.2.
Segmentation.3.
Classification.4.
Linguistic analysis of each unit.5.
Linguistic description of discourse categories.6.
Text structure analysis.7.
Description of discourse organizational tendencies.Computational Linguistics Volume 35, Number 1In the top-down studies presented in this book, the communicative/functional cate-gories used to segment texts into meaningful units of discourse are identified throughmove analysis and appeals analysis.
Moves segment texts according to the commu-nicative functions of texts (Swales 1981, 1990), whereas the primary role of appeals?derived from the Aristotelian theory of persuasion and employed by Perelman (1982)to develop his theory of ?new rhetoric?
?is to make the reader ?act?.
For this reason,appeals analysis is often applied to persuasive texts.The steps to be followed in bottom-up methods are these:1.
Automatic segmentation.2.
Linguistic analysis of each unit.3.
Classification.4.
Linguistic description of discourse categories.5.
Determination of communicative/functional categories.6.
Text structure analysis.7.
Description of discourse organizational tendencies.In the bottom-up studies presented in this book, the computational methods used toautomatically identify vocabulary-based discourse units (VBDUs) are based on Hearst?s(1994, 1997) TextTiling procedure.
TextTiling is a quantitative procedure that comparesthe words used in contiguous segments of text.
If the vocabulary in two segments isvery similar, the two segments are analyzed as belonging to the same discourse unit;otherwise they are analyzed as two distinct units.Therefore, one major difference between the two approaches is the unit of analy-sis.
In the top-down case, the units of analysis (i.e., moves and appeals) are directlyinterpretable by discourse analysts, whereas bottom-up VBDUs are more complex todescribe.
However, the bottom-up method can be easily applied to large corpora andis replicable, whereas the top-down approach is more subjective.
In both approaches,the linguistic analysis of discourse units relies on multidimensional analysis, the well-known statistical method developed by Biber to study linguistic variation.Instructively, the book ends with a comparison of two independent analyses?onetop-down and one bottom-up, described in Chapters 4 and 7, respectively?carriedout on two different corpora, one containing biochemistry research articles, the otherincluding articles about themore general discipline of biology.
Although the expectationthat both methods would reveal and underpin a similar inherent structure in the articlesof both corpora is met to some extent, there are still several aspects that are problematicand have no ready explanation.
The authors acknowledge that additional research isneeded to shed more light on these aspects.The book is easy to read andwell structured.
It consists of a preface, nine chapters?divided into two parts?and two appendices.
Top-down methods (based on moveanalysis and appeals analysis) and their application to direct-mail letters, biochem-istry research articles, and fund-raising letters are described in Chapters 2?5.
Bottom-up methods (based on VBDUs) and their application to biology research articles andspoken university lectures are presented in Chapters 6?8.
The introductory Chapter 1contains a synthetic overview of the several perspectives and purposes guiding dis-course analysis, a useful distinction between register and genre, the motivation for thebook, and its research questions.
The final Chapter 9 presents a critical comparisonbetween the two approaches and outlines the many questions to be addressed in fur-ther studies and the directions to be explored in future research.
The two appendicesdocument the steps included in multidimensional analysis (Appendix I) and list the106Book Reviewslexico-grammatical features identified by the Biber tagger (Appendix II) and used inmultidimensional analyses.Overall, Discourse on the Move is interesting and inspiring.
It is a valuable work ofsynthesis, where several previous approaches are combined to produce more extensiveand comprehensive findings.
The title suggests that discourse analysis is moving for-ward.
This is indeed the impression that we have when reading the last pages of thefinal chapter.
The authors list studies, publication of which is forthcoming, that werecarried out using top-down and bottom-up approaches, and possible future directionsthat range from the investigation of multimodal texts to the integration of ?contextualanalysis?
through, for example, surveys or interviews with informants.In the list of desiderata, I would personally prioritize systematic comparisons be-tween the findings returned by the top-down and bottom-up analyses on the samegenre-specific corpus.
This would allow us to assess whether the two methods arebasically overlapping and can be used interchangeably, or whether they are comple-mentary, so that it is worth applying them both on the same corpus.
Such comparisonswould also reveal important details?for example, whether multidimensional analysesare more effective and more easily interpretable on top-down units of analysis (i.e.,moves and appeals) or on bottom-up VBDUs, or whether there is a way of marshalingthe descriptive labels assigned to factor interpretations.
As it is now, if we have a lookat the functional labels shown in Table 9.1 (pages 246?247), it is unclear to what extentthey are comparable.The book is aimed at corpus linguists, but it can be informative also for thosecomputational linguists, NLP researchers, and language engineers who are keen onincorporating language variation and genre specificities into computational models.
Forinstance, the identification of regular variational discourse patterns could be helpful tofine-tune parsers and automatic summarizers.As stated by the authors themselves, this book has only been able to ?scratch thesurface?
of the corpus-based description of discourse organization.
We look forward toa rapid growth of this research area.ReferencesHearst, Marti.
1994.
Multi-paragraphsegmentation of expository texts.
TechnicalReport 94/790, Computer Science Division(EECS), University of California, Berkeley.Hearst, Marti.
1997.
TextTiling: segmentingtext into multi-paragraph subtopicpassages.
Computational Linguistics,23(1):33?64.Perelman, Chaim.
1982.
The Realm of Rhetoric(William Kluback, translator).
Universityof Notre Dame Press, South Bend, IN.Swales, John.
1981.
Aspects of ArticleIntroductions.
University of Aston,Birmingham, UK.Swales, John.
1990.
Genre Analysis: English inAcademic and Research Settings.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.Marina Santini is an Honorary Research Fellow in the Humanities Advanced Technology andInformation Institute (HATII), University of Glasgow.
She is a computational linguist interested ingenres, sentiment, and other discourse categories (also known as non-topical descriptors), as wellas in Web documents, corpus building, feature extraction, and classification algorithms.
Santini?saddress is: Varvsgatan 25, 117 29 Stockholm, Sweden; e-mail: MarinaSantini.MS@gmail.com.107
