Book ReviewMachine-Aided Linguistic Discovery: An Introductionand Some ExamplesVladimir Pericliev(Bulgarian Academy of Sciences)London: Equinox, 2010, ix+330 pp; hardbound, ISBN 978-1-84553-660-2, $90.00, ?60.00Reviewed byEric J. M. SmithUniversity of TorontoThe subtitle of Vladimir Pericliev?s book,An Introduction and Some Examples, is a succinctand accurate description of its contents.
Pericliev argues briefly for the usefulness ofcomputer-aided techniques in linguistic discovery, contrasting it with the intuitionistapproach which has characterized linguistic discovery throughout much of its history.The bulk of the book is devoted to examples of software-aided linguistic discoverydrawn from his own work.Chapter 1 starts by sketching out the current state of discovery techniques in lin-guistic theory, categorizing scientific discovery into three main approaches: the intui-tionist approach, the chance approach, and the problem-solving approach.
Discoveriesby intuition and by chance remain the purview of humans, but clearly the problem-solving approach can benefit from the application of computational techniques.Chapter 2 presents the KINSHIP program, which performs ?parsimonious discrimi-nation?
in order to determine the minimal set of features which are necessary to dis-criminate all of a language?s kinship terms.
The program is used to discover featuregeometries, superior to existing human-discovered ones, which describe the kinshipterminology of languages like English and Bulgarian.Chapter 3 extends the ideas used in KINSHIP to a program called MPD (maximalparsimonious discrimination), which is then applied to a variety of other tasks, someof which are unconnected to linguistics.
Of these applications, the most interesting isthe use of MPD to determine the segment profiles which uniquely identify languagesin the UPSID-451 database (consisting of segment inventories from 451 languages,selected to provide broad coverage of the world?s language families) (Maddieson andPrecoda 1991).
Although Pericliev discusses his results at considerable length, it is notclear what the theoretical usefulness of these profiles might be.
What does it reallytell us about French to know that it is the only language in the database to containthe phoneme [??]?
Of more practical interest was Pericliev?s discussion of the processof converting the UPSID data into a featural representation to make it amenable toprocessing, describing how to represent underspecified segments and how to deal withtranscription variations.
This sort of necessary preprocessing constitutes an importantand underemphasized part of the process of machine-aided linguistic discovery.
Thestudy of UPSID does produce some interesting, though not unexpected, results.
Forinstance, when a profile contains more than one unique segment, the majority of thesesegments share a common feature, and 85.8% of the unique segments have some sort ofsecondary articulation.Chapters 4 and 5 present twomore pieces of software developed by Pericliev: UNIVand AUTO.
The UNIV software is inspired by Greenberg?s universals (Greenberg 1966),Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4and automates the haphazard process by which universals have been identified in thepast.
Given a vector of features for each language being studied, UNIV identifies alluniversal patterns which hold above a user-specified threshold.
Such universals canbe unrestricted or statistical and they can be stand-alone or implicational.
Once a setof universals has been identified, the results are fed through AUTO (for "AUthoringTOol"), which assembles boilerplate text into a journal article; given the vast numberof (often trivial) universals which UNIV discovers, this can be useful.
UNIV is firstapplied to two data sets: one of kinship terms, and the other the word-order data usedby Greenberg himself.
The most interesting result is that Greenberg?s set of word-orderuniversals was neither complete nor fully supported by the data.UNIV is then applied to the UPSID-451 database.
UNIV identifies a large numberof previously unnoted universals, most of which are rather low-level and of little in-herent theoretical interest.
However, the low-level machine-discovered generalizationscan then be used as the basis for more interesting manually created generalizations.The UNIV analysis also serves to refine earlier claims made by Maddieson (1984) andGamkrelidze (1978).Chapter 6 is devoted to MINTYP, which is a program for determining the minimumtypology to account for an observed set of universals.
The search for such typologiesis discussed by Greenberg (1966) and by Hawkins (1983).
MINTYP takes a system ofuniversals and a set of logically admissible types, and eliminates any superfluous uni-versals which can be implied by stronger universals in order to determine the smallestset of universals which still accounts for the observed data.
This approach is able todistill Greenberg?s set of universals into as few as four composite universals.
Like UNIVand KINSHIP, MINTYP follows Pericliev?s basic approach: Reduce the data to a set offeatures, and then find the patterns whichmost economically cover the observed featuredistribution.Chapter 7 turns this featural approach to the problem of genetic language classifi-cation with the RECLASS software.
Pericliev extends the featural approach to includeSwadesh-type word-lists, for which he describes a method for calculating a similaritymetric based on phonological features of words in the list.
A set of languages fromdifferent families is selected for study, a similarity metric is calculated for pairs of lan-guages, and unrelated languages whose similarity is significantly greater than expectedare given further attention.
In Pericliev?s test case, the initial feature data consists ofkinship terminology, which revealed an unexpected similarity between the Kainganglanguages of Brazil and various Polynesian languages.
He pursues this similarity firstby using features based on word-list similarities and then by looking at other structuralfeatures, arguing at length for the plausibility of a genetic connection.
Of all the resultsdescribed in the book, this is probably the most interesting, because it represents adiscovery made by Pericliev?s machine-aided approach which is unlikely ever to havebeen found by the haphazard manual process of discovery.The main weakness of the book is that all the software described in the bookwas developed or co-developed by Pericliev himself, so the various programs all riskseeming like variations on a single theme.
The book would have benefited by includingexamples of software from others working in the field, which might differ from thefeature-coverage approach favored by Pericliev.
That being said, Pericliev?s essentialpoint is a valid one: Machine-aided discovery has a tremendous untapped potentialfor analyzing data sets which are too large to be amenable to human inspection.The success of this approach is best exemplified by his machine-aided discovery of apossible genetic relationship which would otherwise have eluded human discovery.786Book ReviewReferencesGamkrelidze, T. V. 1978.
On the correlationof stops and fricatives in a phonologicalsystem.
In J. H. Greenberg, editor,Universals of Human Language.
StanfordUniversity Press, Stanford, CA,pages 2:9?46.Greenberg, J. H. 1966.
Some universals ofgrammar with particular reference to theorder of meaningful elements.
In J. H.Greenberg, editor, Universals of Language.Mouton & Co., The Hague, pages 73?113.Hawkins, J.
1983.Word Order Universals.Academic Press, New York.Maddieson, Ian.
1984.
Patterns of Sounds.Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, UK.Maddieson, I. and K. Precoda.
1991.Updating UPSID.
UCLA Working Papersin Phonetics, 74:104?114.Eric Smith?s primary research at the University of Toronto is centered on corpus approaches tothe study of Sumerian syntax.
Earlier machine-aided discoveries included the reconstruction ofElamite phonology using Optimality Theory.
His e-mail address is eric.smith@utoronto.ca.787
