Book ReviewSpoken Dialogue SystemsKristiina Jokinen and Michael McTear(University of Helsinki, University of Ulster)Princeton, NJ: Morgan & Claypool (Synthesis Lectures on LanguageTechnologies, edited by Graeme Hirst, volume 5), 2009, xiv+151pp;paperback, ISBN 978-1-59829-599-3, $40.00; ebook, ISBN 978-1-59829-600-6,doi 10.2200/S00204ED1V01Y200910HLT005, $30.00 or by subscriptionReviewed byMary Ellen FosterHeriot-Watt UniversityThis book gives a short but comprehensive overview of the field of spoken dialoguesystems, outlining the issues involved in building and evaluating this type of systemand making liberal use of techniques and examples from a wide range of implementedsystems.
It provides an excellent review of the research, with particularly relevant dis-cussions of error handling and system evaluation, and is suitable both as an intro-duction to this research area and as a survey of current state-of-the-art techniques.The book is structured into seven chapters.
Chapter 1 provides an introduction tothe research area and briefly introduces the topics covered in the book.
The end of thechapter consists of a list of links to tools and components that can be used for dialoguesystem development, which?although currently useful?seems likely to go out of datequickly.Chapter 2 addresses the task of dialogue management, beginning by describingsimple graph- and frame-based methods for dialogue control, and continuing with adiscussion of VoiceXML.
The chapter ends with an extended discussion of recent workin statistical approaches to dialogue control and modeling.
It is unfortunate that thediscussion of other methods such as the information state approach and plan-basedmodels is postponed to Chapter 4, but otherwise this chapter provides a good summaryof both classic and recent approaches.Chapter 3 discusses error handling, which is divided into three processes: error de-tection, error prediction (i.e., the online prediction of errors based on dialogue features),and error recovery.
After surveying a range of previous approaches to these three sub-tasks, the authors go on to discuss several more recent, data-driven approaches.
Errorhandling is both a vital component of any spoken dialogue system designed for real-world use and an active area of current research, so this compact summary of techniquesand issues is welcome.Chapter 4 contains case studies illustrating a range of dialogue control strategiesand models.
It begins with a description of the information state approach, and thenmoves on to discuss plan-based approaches as exemplified in the TRAINS and TRIPSprojects.
This is followed by a discussion of two systems that employ software agents fordialogue management: the Queen?s Communicator and the AthosMail system.
Finally,two systems which make use of statistical models are presented: the Microsoft Bayesianreceptionist, which models conversation as decision making under uncertainty, andthe DIHANA system, which employs corpus-based dialogue management.
The casestudies in this chapter provide detailed examples of a range of techniques, along withComputational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4some discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of each approach, adding to therelevance of the book for developers of future dialogue systems.Chapter 5 discusses four aspects of spoken dialogue systems that go beyond thestraightforward information exchange scenarios considered in the preceding chapters.The first section covers aspects of collaborative planning along with Jokinen?s (2009)Constructive Dialogue Modeling approach.
The section on adaptation and user model-ing provides a brief but useful survey of approaches to this task.
The discussion of mul-timodality is longer and more concrete, but concentrates almost entirely on multimodalinput processing; it would have been helpful to include a similar summary of the issuesinvolved in multimodal output generation.
The final section on ?natural interaction?briefly discusses two topics: non-verbal communication for embodied conversationalagents and multimodal corpus annotation.Chapter 6?the longest in the book?gives a thorough treatment of the issues in-volved in evaluating spoken dialogue systems, beginning with an historical overview.It continues with a discussion of terminology and techniques and describes a widerange of subjective and objective evaluation measures that have been applied to theevaluation task.
Next, two frameworks are presented that are designed to provide ageneral methodology for evaluation: PARADISE (Walker et al 1997) and Quality ofExperience (Mo?ller 2005).
This is followed by a discussion of concepts from HCI-styleusability evaluations and how they can be applied to spoken dialogue systems, andthen a section dealing with semiautomatic evaluation and the role of standardization.The final section discusses challenges that arise when evaluating advanced dialoguesystems incorporating multimodality and adaptivity, and when evaluating systemsdesigned for real-world applications.Finally, Chapter 7 briefly discusses conversational dialogue systems (i.e., com-panion/chatbot systems), whose emphasis is on social communication rather than theinformation exchange tasks considered for most of the book.
It also addresses therelationship between commercial and academic approaches to spoken dialogue.It is interesting to note that both of the authors have also written books of their ownthat address aspects of spoken dialogue systems: McTear (2004) gives a comprehensiveoverview of the research area, including a series of hands-on tutorials on buildingsystems using tools such as the CSLU toolkit and VoiceXML, and Jokinen (2009) pro-vides a detailed description of a particular style of dialogue management, ConstructiveDialogue Modeling.This book fills a different niche: It has neither the exercises and tutorials of theMcTear book, nor the in-depth description of a single formalism provided by Jokinen.Instead, it concentrates on outlining the issues involved in building a spoken dialoguesystem and on describing a wide range of existing techniques and systems.
Althoughthe book is short, it provides an excellent starting point for researchers new to thefield, and every section has a good selection of references which would easily allowthe interested reader to follow up any particular topic in more depth.
The chapters onerror handling and evaluation provide particularly useful summaries of the issues andtechniques in these active research areas.Although the preface says that the book is aimed at both engineering and humani-ties students, I suspect that readers without any mathematical background would havedifficulty with some of the more formal sections.
However, the necessary backgroundknowledge is not great, and in general the book is clearly written and understandable;it is suitable as both an introduction to this research area and a survey of current state-of-the-art techniques.782Book ReviewReferencesJokinen, K. 2009.
Constructive DialogueModelling: Speech Interaction and RationalAgents.
Wiley Series in Agent Technology.John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., Hoboken, NJ.McTear, M. F. 2004.
Spoken DialogueTechnology: Toward the Conversational UserInterface.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin.Mo?ller, S. 2005.
Quality of Telephone-BasedSpoken Dialogue Systems.
Springer,New York.Walker, M. A., D. J. Litman, C. A. Kamm, andA.
Abella.
1997.
PARADISE: a frameworkfor evaluating spoken dialogue agents.
InProceedings of EACL 1997, pages 271?280,Madrid.This book review was edited by Pierre Isabelle.Mary Ellen Foster is a research fellow in the Interaction Lab of the School of Mathematical andComputer Sciences at Heriot-Watt University.
Her research interests include embodied commu-nication, natural language generation, and multimodal dialogue systems.
Her address is Schoolof Mathematical and Computer Sciences, Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh EH14 4AS, UnitedKingdom; e-mail: M.E.Foster@hw.ac.uk.783
