Commentary and DiscussionA Response to Richard Sproat on RandomSystems, Writing, and EntropyRob Lee?School of BiosciencesPhilip Jonathan?
?University of LancasterPauline Ziman?PHS Consulting, Ltd.In his article ?Ancient symbols and computational linguistics?
(Sproat 2010), ProfessorSproat raised two concerns over a method that we have proposed for analyzing smalldata sets of symbols using entropy (Lee, Jonathan, and Ziman 2010): first, that themethod is unable to detect random but non-equiprobable systems; and second, thatit misclassifies kudurru texts.
We address these concerns in the following response.1.
Random SystemsRandom systems can contain unigrams drawn from an equiprobable or from a non-equiprobable distribution.
For small data sets, random but equiprobable systems arelikely to have a non-equiprobable actual frequency of unigram occurrence due to thesample size.
A method for determining whether a data set is unlikely to be random butequiprobable was given in Lee, Jonathan, and Ziman (2010).For a given script set, first order entropy (E1) summarizes the frequencies at whichunigrams occur.
E1 is maximized when all unigrams occur with equal probability.
Inwritten language, unigrams occur with unequal probabilities?for example, the letterse and t occur more frequently in English than the letters x and z, thereby lending somedegree of predictability to the occurrence of a particular unigram, and reducing thevalue of E1.
Random script sets drawn from a non-equiprobable distribution couldhave the same actual frequencies of unigram occurrence as a written language scriptset.
However, whereas there is unigram-to-unigram dependence in a language, there isno such dependency in a random system.
For example, q tends to be followed by u inEnglish.
The digram qu would therefore occur more often than other digrams startingwith q.
This second-order dependency is captured in the second-order entropy, E2.
Thusit is one of the fundamental outcomes of Shannon?s theory that the dependency in?
School of Biosciences, Geoffrey Pope Building, University of Exeter, Stocker Road, Exeter EX4 4QD, UK.E-mail: R.Lee@exeter.ac.uk.??
Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Lancaster, Lancaster LA1 4YF, UK.E-mail: p.jonathan@lancaster.ac.uk.?
PHS Consulting Limited, Pryors Hayes Farm, Willington Road, Oscroft, Tarvin, Chester CH3 8NL, UK.?
2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4language script sets reduces E2 compared to random script sets with the same actualfrequencies of unigram occurrences but no unigram-to-unigram dependency (Shannon1948; Yaglom and Yaglom 1983).
This provides a basis for investigating whether a scriptset is unlikely to be an example of a random system drawn from a non-equiprobabledistribution of unigram occurrence.2.
Digram DependenceThe significance of dependence with digrams for a script set can be quantified by com-paring its value of E2 with the distribution of values E2(R) obtained from randomizedpermutations of the unigrams in the script set.
A script set with significant dependencewould yield a value of E2 which was extreme in the distribution of E2(R).
This isindeed the case for a large proportion of the scripts sets analyzed here (see Figure 1).
Toconstruct Figure 1, E2 was calculated for both the original script set and 1,000 differentrandomizations, the latter giving rise to an empirical distribution of E2(R) for randomlygenerated script sets of the same size and structure as the original.
For each scriptFigure 1Characterizing dependence within digrams.
For a given script set, the value of second-orderentropy, E2, is calculated and compared with the corresponding value, E2(R), for a randomizedscript R consisting of a randomized permutation of the unigrams comprising the original scriptset.
The probability P = Prob(E2(R) > E2) is estimated empirically using 1,000 randomizedpermutations.
The sorted values of probability P are shown in black for the 286 script sets (ofsmall unigram sample size) examined.
For approximately 80% of the script sets, the value ofprobability P is unity, that is, E2 is the smallest of the corresponding values E2(R) observed (forscript sets of larger unigram sample size, this percentage would be expected to increase towardsunity).
For both Pictish script sets, the estimated value of probability P is unity (note that theirpositioning within the subset of script sets where P = unity is arbitary since all these sets havethe same value of P).
For comparison, we also calculate the probability P* corresponding toscripts sets which are themselves randomized permutations of the original script set.
The sortedvalues of P* (in gray) are seen to be approximately uniformly distributed as expected, whereasthe values of P are not.792Lee, Jonathan, and Ziman A Response to Sproatset we estimate the probability that E2 for the original script set is less than that forthe corresponding randomized script sets.
In most cases these estimated probabilitiesare unity.
Figure 1 shows the probabilities as an ordered sequence of script sets.
Thelower line on Figure 1 depicts the corresponding ordered probabilities for script setswhich are themselves randomized permutations of language script sets.
As expected,the probability associated with randomized script sets approximately follows a uniformdistribution.
For a genuinely random but non-equiprobable script processed in the samemanner, it is highly unlikely that this script set would yield a value of E2 which wasextreme in the distribution of E2(R).
Figure 1 also shows the probabilities of the Pictishsymbol script sets.
The values of E2 for the two Pictish script sets are seen to be extremewith respect to the corresponding E2(R) distributions.
We conclude that the Pictishscript sets show dependence within digrams in the same way as the other script setsanalyzed which are known examples of dependent digram communication (given hereas ?language character set?).3.
KudurruWith regard to the question raised by the kudurrus, the issue appears to be a differ-ence in viewpoint over terminology as to the definition of what constitutes ?writing.
?Professor Sproat uses a stricter definition of writing than some other researchers, suchas Powell (2009, page 13), who defines writing more broadly: ?writing is a system ofmarkings with a conventional reference that communicates information.?
For example,Figure 2The effect on the empirical cumulative distributions of Ur of increasing the character constraintfor words.
As the vocabulary becomes constrained, the distribution of Ur becomes narrower andthe mean value decreases.793Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4genealogical name lists, which for individual inscriptions or persons may be very short(two or three names), would not be considered a full linguistic system and hence notmeet Professor Sproat?s criteria for writing.
However, we have included these typesof communication in the model along with less constrained linguistic systems, manyof which would be classed as writing by Professor Sproat.
Although the model doesnot differentiate between these different levels of linguistic systems, their effects uponE2 can be observed using the structural variable Ur (Lee, Jonathan, and Ziman 2010).Figure 2 illustrates the effect on Ur of increasing constraint on the vocabulary andsyntax in moving from prose and poetry to genealogical name lists (including kinglists) to very constrained name lists utilizing only ?diminutive?
name stems (for the?diminutive?
name stems data set, the names contained in the genealogical lists havebeen reduced to their ?familiar?
form, such as Al for Albert, Alan, and Alfred).
Thisconstraint further constrains the vocabulary by removing a multitude of names andreplacing them with a much smaller and less diverse set.
As stated in the paper (Lee,Jonathan, and Ziman 2010), one of the corpora of Pictish symbol types gives valuesof the structure variables (Ur and Cr) defined in the original paper that are consistentwith digram communication encoding at the constrained vocabulary level such as namelists.
The values that Professor Sproat calculates for the kudurrus data set places them ina similar level of communication.ReferencesLee, Rob, Philip Jonathan, and PaulineZiman.
2010.
Pictish symbols revealedas a written language throughapplication of Shannon entropy.Proceedings of the Royal Society A,466:2545?2560.Powell, Barry B.
2009.
Writing: Theory andHistory of the Technology of Civilization.Wiley-Blackwell, London.Shannon, Claude E. 1948.
A mathematicaltheory of communication.
Bell SystemTechnical Journal, 27:379?423 and 623?656,July and October.
Reprinted in N. J. A.Sloane and A. D. Wyner (eds).
[1993].Claude E. Shannon: Collected Papers.
IEEEPress, Piscataway, NJ.Sproat, Richard.
2010.
Ancient symbols,computational linguistics, and thereviewing practices of the general sciencejournals.
Computational Linguistics,36(3):585?594.Yaglom, Akiva M. and Isaak M. Yaglom.1983.
Probability and Information [Translatedby V. K. Jain].
D. Reidal Publishing Co.,Dordrecht.794
