Briefly NotedEssential Programming for LinguisticsMartin Weisser(University of Bayreuth)Edinburgh University Press (EdinburghAdvanced Textbooks in Linguistics,edited by Peter Ackema andMitsuhiko Ota); x+174 pp; hardboundISBN 978-0-7486-3855-0, $115.00, ?70.00;paperbound, ISBN 978-0-7486-3856-7,$29.50, ?19.99This book is of only marginal use as a Perlprimer for linguists or as a university text-book.
Thick with explicatory text in 10-pointMinion font, some chapters, such as thaton references and modules, are consequentlyvery difficult to work through, and are writ-ten in sometimes abstruse language (?Theother thing is something to do with how weuse functions,?
p. 55), which further impedesfull comprehension.The book?s exercises become increasinglyarduous (number 24, for example, asks thereader to build a basic concordancer using thelocalizer ?my,?
which is not explained until20 pages later), and readers must therefore re-sort to downloading Weisser?s solutions andtrying to decipher the code themselves.
Fur-thermore, these solutions provide programsthat are usually too basic for genuine linguis-tic research, such as a dictionary-compilerinto which the user must type every entry byhand.
Because Weisser makes little referenceto other work, readers leave this book withthe discouraging feeling that no usable Perlcode exists for linguists, and that they are stillunable to write their own.The book?s greatest shortcomings are in theareas of subroutines, modules, and objects.Making only a single passing reference toCPAN in his chapter on modularity, Weisserrefers to only three modules (pp.
110?112)but never provides a functioning programthat uses them.
Because one of Perl?s greateststrengths is in the reusability of its modules,it is disappointing to find so little on them inthis book.Objects are also a great strength of Perl,but Weisser dismisses them in a dense four-page chapter which ends, as usual, with theacknowledgment that the examples he hasprovided can only be made useful by writinga program ?which, however, I shall leave toyou as a further exercise?
(p. 120).Linguists seeking a primer or classroomtextbook on Perl are probably still best servedby Michael Hammond?s Programming for Lin-guists (Blackwell, 2003), which, although ithas slightly fewer examples of linguisticallyrelevant code, brings readers to about thesame skill level that Weisser?s book does, andwith greater clarity.
?Brian O?
Broin, WilliamPaterson University789
