Last WordsFailure Is an Orphan (Let?s Adopt)Stan Szpakowicz?SITE, University of Ottawa &ICS, Polish Academy of SciencesSweet Smell of SuccessWe like to think that the progress of science follows an exponential curve, boldly shoot-ing upwards, ever more speedily.
In reality, there is a firmament of darkness (that?s ourdaily slog) sparsely spottedwith dim lights (those are discoveries).
Fittingly, discoverersare also few, just as in every field of human endeavor.
For every great leader, artist, orscientist there is a multitude of followers, and this is as it should be.
There can only beso many winners?and only so much winning research.
Anecdotal evidence has it thatone project in a hundred gives back: Its results justify the investment.1And yet, our cocky attitude: We tend to count ourselves among that one hundredth.We need success.
We simply must excel.
That is, after all, how scientists are judged.Those of us who have sat on hiring or promotion committees know how evaluationworks; surely, we all get to be at the receiving end.
One needs many publications fora thriving career, and we publish if we show how we go one better on someone else?sresult.
So, we cannot afford a setback, a path wrongly taken, a poor result.
There is noroom for that in our line of work.This already sounds dismal, but it gets worse.
People have come to equate everynegative result with failure.
Suppose you have set up an experiment carefully andin good faith, but still it comes up short.
That?s not a positive outcome.
Maybe yourintuition has let you down.
Maybe this cannot work.
Wait, maybe you can prove that itcannot work?
No, forget it.
You have already failed.
Don?t waste any more time.
Cutyour losses and move on.Well, reconsider!
You can miss a truly fundamental lesson.
In 1887, Michelson andMorley set out to prove the existence of ether, thought to be a conduit for light.
Theycould not prove it: they failed.
But?their null result prompted a line of research whichculminated in the theory of special relativity.House of PeersPeer review breedsmediocrity.
Galileos, Brunos, Modiglianis, and van Goghs go againstthe grain; the scorn of their peers and the indifference of the public crush them.An obliging self-promoter will fare much better.
Peer review also censures failure.
A?
School of Information Technology and Engineering, University of Ottawa, 800 King Edward Avenue,Ottawa, Ontario, K1N 6N5, Canada.
Institute of Computer Science, Polish Academy of Sciences, Ordona 21,01-237 Warszawa, Poland.
E-mail: szpak@site.uottawa.ca.1 As Einstein famously said: ?I think and think for months and years.
Ninety-nine times, the conclusion isfalse.
The hundredth time I am right.??
2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 1forthright admission of the inferiority of one?s results?despite the integrity or noveltyof the work?is a kiss of death: no publication.
There must be improvement, howeverminuscule.2 By the ?law of averages,?
caution tends to trump adventurousness, andcertainly conformance to reviewers?
expectations is an asset.
Indeed, we write so theyare likely to accept.Now, reviewers are us.
If we the authors believe that negative results are always andinescapably a bad thing, so do we the reviewers.
If we the authors relentlessly strive forsuccess, we the reviewers check papers for signs of success.
Serves us all right: If wehave lost, we can?t win.Can?t we?Philosopher?s StoneGood science engenders good results.
An experiment carefully thought out, a systematicprocedure, an honest evaluation?these are the ingredients.
It is not mandatory for theresults to be positive, though it certainly lifts one up if they are.In areas where empirical methods dominate?computational linguistics is such adiscipline?it is a given that people try things which fail at the experimental stage.This may be due to lack of rigor, but often there are deeper, unexpected, and intriguingreasons.
We can learn a lot if we analyze scientifically why an intuitive and plausibleexperiment did not work.
We know how important counter-examples are in rejectingconjectures.
And if a negative result points to an interesting and important open prob-lem, it ought to be explored.
Then again, to know what leads to dead ends in researchsurely can warn others off paths which take us nowhere.An interesting negative result may arise from a compelling idea proven wrong in athorough and well-conducted experiment.
This is valuable to the community if you canexplain confidently why you have tried out this idea, and if people can replicate yourexperiment; the setback is an educational experience insofar as you convince others thatthe expected outcome just could not materialize.
Simply put, a negative result can be auseful lesson.3AcknowledgmentsThis note owes a great deal to Vivi Nastase.Not only did she put me on the path towardit, but she kept me on my toes.
Her manyincisive comments helped this little papertake its present shape.2 A score will double if just a hundred researchers increase it, one by one, by a mere 0.7%.3 Not everyone is loath to accept negative results.
Journal of Negative Results in BioMedicine (www.jnrbm.com)welcomes articles which contradict current tenets, to better support scientists and physicians in makingclinical decisions.
Journal of Negative Results ?
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (www.jnr-eeb.org) offersan outlet to studies which seem uneventful (as a reaction to publications in the field which only acceptstudies with noteworthy results) to avoid missing important phenomena in nature.
Journal of Articles inSupport of the Null Hypothesis (www.jasnh.com) publishes papers on experiments which do not pass thetraditional significance level threshold, to avoid replicating empirical work already examined.
Closer tohome, there is WWWW: the AAAI Spring Symposia hosted in 2006 and 2008 workshops dedicated to?What Went Wrong and Why: Lessons from AI Research and Applications?
(www.aaai.org/Press/Reports/Symposia/Spring/ss-06-08.php), www.aaai.org/Press/Reports/Workshops/ws-08-14.php.And if you want to publish a serious, worthwhile negative result in computational linguistics, there isJournal of Interesting Negative Results in NLP and ML (www.jinr.org).158
