SquibsOn Paraphrase and CoreferenceMarta Recasens?University of BarcelonaMarta Vila?
?University of BarcelonaBy providing a better understanding of paraphrase and coreference in terms of similarities anddifferences in their linguistic nature, this article delimits what the focus of paraphrase extractionand coreference resolution tasks should be, and to what extent they can help each other.
We arguefor the relevance of this discussion to Natural Language Processing.1.
IntroductionParaphrase extraction1 and coreference resolution have applications in Question An-swering, Information Extraction, Machine Translation, and so forth.
Paraphrase pairsmight be coreferential, and coreference relations are sometimes paraphrases.
The twooverlap considerably (Hirst 1981), but their definitions make them significantly differentin essence: Paraphrasing concerns meaning, whereas coreference is about discoursereferents.
Thus, they do not always coincide.
In the following example, b and d are bothcoreferent and paraphrastic, whereas a, c, e, f, and h are coreferent but not paraphrastic,and g and i are paraphrastic but not coreferent.
(1) [Tony]a went to see [the ophthalmologist]b and got [his]c eyes checked.
[The eyedoctor]d told [him]e that [his]f [cataracts]g were getting worse.
[His]h mother alsosuffered from [cloudy vision]i.The discourse model built for Example (1) contains six entities (i.e., Tony, the eye doctor,Tony?s eyes, Tony?s cataracts, Tony?s mother, cataracts).
Because a, c, e, f, and h all pointto Tony, we say that they are coreferent.
In contrast, in paraphrasing, we do not need tobuild a discourse entity to state that g and i are paraphrase pairs; we restrict ourselves tosemantic content and this is why we check for sameness of meaning between cataractsand cloudy vision alone, regardless of whether they are a referential unit in a discourse.Despite the differences, it is possible for paraphrasing and coreference to co-occur, as inthe case of b and d.NLP components dealing with paraphrasing and coreference seem to have greatpotential to improve understanding and generation systems.
As a result, they have beenthe focus of a large amount of work in the past couple of decades (see the surveys by?
CLiC, Department of Linguistics, Gran Via 585, 08007 Barcelona, Spain.
E-mail: mrecasens@ub.edu.??
CLiC, Department of Linguistics, Gran Via 585, 08007 Barcelona, Spain.
E-mail: marta.vila@ub.edu.1 Recognition, extraction, and generation are all paraphrase-related tasks.
We will center ourselves onparaphrase extraction, as this is the task in which paraphrase and coreference resolution mainly overlap.Submission received: 3 March 2010; accepted for publication: 1 June 2010.?
2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4Androutsopoulos and Malakasiotis [2010], Madnani and Dorr [2010], Ng [2010], andPoesio and Versley [2009]).
Before computational linguistics, coreference had not beenstudied on its own from a purely linguistic perspective but was indirectly mentioned inthe study of pronouns.
Although there have been some linguistic works that considerparaphrasing, they do not fully respond to the needs of paraphrasing from a computa-tional perspective.This article discusses the similarities between paraphrase and coreference in orderto point out the distinguishing factors that make paraphrase extraction and coref-erence resolution two separate yet related tasks.
This is illustrated with examplesextracted/adapted from different sources (Dras 1999; Doddington et al 2004; Dolan,Brockett, and Quirk 2005; Recasens and Mart??
2010; Vila et al 2010) and our own.
Apartfrom providing a better understanding of these tasks, we point out ways in which theycan mutually benefit, which can shed light on future research.2.
Converging and Diverging PointsThis section explores the overlapping relationship between paraphrase and coreference,highlighting the most relevant aspects that they have in common as well as those thatdistinguish them.
They are both sameness relations (Section 2.2), but one is betweenmeanings and the other between referents (Section 2.1).
In terms of linguistic units,coreference is mainly restricted to noun phrases (NPs), whereas paraphrasing goesbeyond and includes word-, phrase- and sentence-level expressions (Section 2.3).
Onefinal diverging point is the role they (might) play in discourse (Section 2.4).2.1 Meaning and ReferenceThe two dimensions that are the focus of paraphrasing and coreference are meaningand reference, respectively.
Traditionally, paraphrase is defined as the relation betweentwo expressions that have the same meaning (i.e., they evoke the same mental concept),whereas coreference is defined as the relation between two expressions that have thesame referent in the discourse (i.e., they point to the same entity).
We follow Karttunen(1976) and talk of ?discourse referents?
instead of ?real-world referents.
?In Table 1, the italicized pairs in cells (1,1) and (2,1) are both paraphrastic butthey only corefer in (1,1).
We cannot decide on (non-)coreference in (2,1) as we need adiscourse to first assign a referent.
In contrast, we can make paraphrasing judgmentsTable 1Paraphrase?coreference matrix.Paraphrase" %Coreference"(1,1)Tony went to see theophthalmologist and got hiseyes checked.
The eye doctortold him .
.
.
(1,2)Tony went to see theophthalmologist and gothis eyes checked.%(2,1)ophthalmologisteye doctor(2,2)His cataracts were gettingworse.
His mother alsosuffered from cloudy vision.640Recasens and Vila On Paraphrase and Coreferencewithout taking discourse into consideration.
Pairs like the one in cell (1,2) are onlycoreferent but not paraphrases because the proper noun Tony and the pronoun his havereference but no meaning.
Lastly, neither phenomenon is observed in cell (2,2).2.2 SamenessParaphrasing and coreference are usually defined as sameness relations: Two expres-sions that have the same meaning are paraphrastic, and two expressions that refer tothe same entity in a discourse are coreferent.
The concept of sameness is usually takenfor granted and left unexplained, but establishing sameness is not straightforward.A strict interpretation of the concept makes sameness relations only possible in logicand mathematics, whereas a sloppy interpretation makes the definition too vague.
Inparaphrasing, if the loss of at the city in Example (2b) is not considered to be relevant, Ex-amples (2a) and (2b) are paraphrases; but if it is considered to be relevant, then they arenot.
It depends on where we draw the boundaries of what is accepted as the ?same?meaning.
(2) a.
The waterlogged conditions that ruled out play yesterday still prevailed atthe city this morning.b.
The waterlogged conditions that ruled out play yesterday still prevailed thismorning.
(3) On homecoming night Postville feels like Hometown, USA .
.
.
For those whoprefer the old Postville, Mayor John Hyman has a simple answer.Similarly, with respect to coreference (3), whether Postville and the old Postville in Ex-ample 3 are or are not the same entity depends on the granularity of the discourse.On a sloppy reading, one can assume that because Postville refers to the same spatialcoordinates, it is the same town.
On a strict reading, in contrast, drawing a distinctionbetween the town as it was at two different moments in time results in two differententities: the old Postville versus the present-day Postville.
They are not the same in thatfeatures have changed from the former to the latter.The concept of sameness in paraphrasing has been questioned on many occasions.If we understood ?same meaning?
in the strictest sense, a large number of paraphraseswould be ruled out.
Thus, some authors argue for a looser definition of paraphrasing.Bhagat (2009), for instance, talks about ?quasi-paraphrases?
as ?sentences or phrasesthat convey approximately the same meaning.?
Milic?evic?
(2007) draws a distinctionbetween ?exact?
and ?approximate?
paraphrases.
Finally, Fuchs (1994) prefers to usethe notion of ?equivalence?
to ?identity?
on the grounds that the former allows for theexistence of some semantic differences between the paraphrase pairs.
The concept ofidentity in coreference, however, has hardly been questioned, as prototypical examplesappear to be straightforward (e.g., Barack Obama andObama and he).
Only recently haveRecasens, Hovy, and Mart??
(2010) pointed out the need for talking about ?near-identity?relations in order to account for cases such as Example (3), proposing a typology of suchrelations.2.3 Linguistic UnitsAnother axis of comparison between paraphrase and coreference concerns the typesof linguistic units involved in each relation.
Paraphrase can hold between different641Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4linguistic units, from morphemes to full texts, although the most attention has been paidto word-level paraphrase (kid and child in Example (4)), phrase-level paraphrase (criedand burst into tears in Example (4)), and sentence-level paraphrase (the two sentencesin Example (4)).
(4) a.
The kid cried.b.
The child burst into tears.In contrast, coreference is more restricted in that the majority of relations occur at thephrasal level, especially between NPs.
This explains why this has been the largest focusso far, although prepositional and adverbial phrases are also possible yet less frequent,as well as clauses or sentences.
Coreference relations occur indistinctively betweenpronouns, proper nouns, and full NPs that are referential, namely, that have discoursereferents.
For this reason, pleonastic pronouns, nominal predicates, and appositivescannot enter into coreference relations.
The first do not refer to any entity but aresyntactically required; the last two express properties of an entity rather than introducea new one.
But this is an issue ignored by the corpora annotated for the MUC and ACEprograms (Hirschman and Chinchor 1997; Doddington et al 2004), hence the criticismby van Deemter and Kibble (2000).In the case of paraphrasing, it is linguistic expressions that lack meaning (i.e.,pronouns and proper nouns) that should not be treated as members of a paraphrase pairon their own (Example (5a)) because paraphrase is only possible between meaningfulunits.
This issue, however, takes on another dimension when seen at the sentence level.The sentences in Example (5b) can be said to be paraphrases because they themselvescontain the antecedent of the pronouns I and he.
(5) a.
(i) A. Jime?nez(ii) Ib.
(i) The Atle?tico de Madrid goalkeeper, A. Jime?nez, yesterday realized oneof his dreams by defeating Barcelona: ?I had never beaten Barcelona.?
(ii) The Atle?tico de Madrid goalkeeper, A. Jime?nez, yesterday realized oneof his dreams by defeating Barcelona, and said that he had never beatenBarcelona.In Example (5b), A. Jime?nez and I/he continue not being paraphrastic.
Polysemic, un-derspecified, and metaphoric words show a slightly different behavior.
It is not possibleto establish paraphrase between them when they are deprived of context (Callison-Burch 2007, Chapter 4).
In Example (6a), police officers could be patrol police officers,and investigators could be university researchers.
However, once they are embedded in adisambiguating context that fills them semantically, as in Example (6b), then paraphrasecan be established between police officers and investigators.
(6) a.
(i) Police officers(ii) Investigatorsb.
(i) Police officers searched 11 stores in Barcelona.
(ii) The investigators conducted numerous interviews with the victim.As a final remark, and in accordance with the approach by Fuchs (1994), we considerExample (7)?like paraphrases that Fujita (2005) and Milic?evic?
(2007) call, respectively,642Recasens and Vila On Paraphrase and Coreference?referential?
and ?cognitive?
to be best treated as coreference rather than paraphrase,because they only rely on referential identity in a discourse.
(7) a.
They got married last year.b.
They got married in 2004.2.4 Discourse FunctionA further difference between paraphrasing and coreference concerns their degree of de-pendency on discourse.
Given that coreference establishes sameness relations betweenthe entities that populate a discourse (i.e., discourse referents), it is a linguistic phe-nomenon whose dependency on discourse is much stronger than paraphrasing.
Thus,the latter can be approached from a discursive or a non-discursive perspective, whichin turn allows for a distinction between reformulative paraphrasing (Example (8)) andnon-reformulative paraphrasing (Example (9)).
(8) Speaker 1: Then they also diagnosed a hemolytic?uremic syndrome.Speaker 2: What?s that?Speaker 1: Renal insufficiency, in the kidneys.
(9) a. X wrote Y.b.
X is the author of Y.Reformulative paraphrasing occurs in a reformulation context when a rewording ofa previously expressed content is added for discursive reasons, such as emphasis,correction, or clarification.
Non-reformulative paraphrasing does not consider therole that paraphrasing plays in discourse.
Reformulative paraphrase pairs have to beextracted from a single piece of discourse; non-reformulative paraphrase pairs canbe extracted?each member of the pair on its own?from different discourse pieces.
Thereformulation in the third utterance in Example (8) gives an explanation in a languageless technical than that in the first utterance; whereas Examples (9a) and (9b) are simplytwo alternative ways of expressing an authorship relation.The strong discourse dependency of coreference explains the major role it playsin terms of cohesion.
Being such a cohesive device, it follows that intra-documentcoreference, which takes place within a single discourse unit (or across a collection ofdocuments linked by topic), is the most primary.
Cross-document coreference, on theother hand, constitutes a task on its own in NLP but falls beyond the scope of linguisticcoreference due to the lack of a common universe of discourse.
The assumption behindcross-document coreference is that there is an underlying global discourse that enablesvarious documents to be treated as a single macro-document.Despite the differences, the discourse function of reformulative paraphrasing bringsit close to coreference in the sense that they both contribute to the cohesion and devel-opment of discourse.3.
Mutual BenefitsBoth paraphrase extraction and coreference resolution are complex tasks far from beingsolved at present, and we believe that there could be improvements in performance643Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4if researchers on each side paid attention to the others.
The similarities (i.e., relationsof sameness, relations between NPs) allow for mutual collaboration, whereas the differ-ences (i.e., focus on either meaning or reference) allow for resorting to either paraphraseor coreference to solve the other.
In general, the greatest benefits come for cases in whicheither paraphrase or coreference are especially difficult to detect automatically.
Morespecifically, we see direct mutual benefits when both phenomena occur either in thesame expression or in neighboring expressions.For pairs of linguistic expressions that show both relations, we can hypothesizeparaphrasing relationships between NPs for which coreference is easier to detect.
Forinstance, coreference between the two NPs in Example (10) is very likely given that theyhave the same head, head match being one of the most successful features in coreferenceresolution (Haghighi and Klein 2009).
In contrast, deciding on paraphrase would behard due to the difficulty of matching the modifiers of the two NPs.
(10) a.
The director of a multinational with huge profits.b.
The director of a solvent company with headquarters in many countries.In the opposite direction, we can hypothesize coreference links between NPs for whichparaphrasing can be recognized with considerable ease (Example (11)).
Light elements(e.g., fact), for instance, are normally taken into account in paraphrasing?but not incoreference resolution?as their addition or deletion does not involve a significantchange in meaning.
(11) a.
The creation of a company.b.
The fact of creating a company.By neighboring expressions, we mean two parallel structures each containing a coref-erent mention of the same entity next to a member of the same paraphrase pair.
Notethat the coreferent expressions in the following examples are printed in italics and theparaphrase units are printed in bold.
If a resolution module identifies the coreferentpairs in Example (12), then these can function as two anchor points,X andY, to infer thatthe text between them is paraphrastic: X complained today before Y, and X is formulatingthe corresponding complaint to Y.
(12) a. ArgentinaX complained today before the British GovernmentY about theviolation of the air space of this South American country.b.
This ChancellorshipX is formulating the corresponding complaint to theBritish GovernmentY for this violation of the Argentinian air space.Some authors have already used coreference resolution in their paraphrasing systemsin a similar way to the examples herein.
Shinyama and Sekine (2003) benefit from thefact that a single event can be reported in more than one newspaper article in differentways, keeping certain kinds of NPs such as names, dates, and numbers unchanged.Thus, these can behave as anchor points for paraphrase extraction.
Their system usescoreference resolution to find anchors which refer to the same entity.Conversely, knowing that a stretch of text next to an NP paraphrases another stretchof text next to another NP helps to identify a coreference link between the two NPs,as shown by Example (13), where two diction verbs are easily detected as a para-phrase and thus their subjects can be hypothesized to corefer.
If the paraphrase system644Recasens and Vila On Paraphrase and Coreferenceidentifies the mapping between the indirect speech in Example (13a) and the directspeech in Example (13b), the coreference relation between the subjects is corroborated.Another difficult coreference link that can be detected with the help of paraphrasingis Example (14): If the predicates are recognized as paraphrases, then the subjects arelikely to corefer.
(13) a.
The trainer of the Cuban athlete Sotomayor said that the world record holderis in a fit state to win the Games in Sydney.b.
?The record holder is in a fit state to win the Olympic Games,?
explainedDe la Torre.
(14) a.
Police officers searched 11 stores in Barcelona.b.
The investigators carried out 11 searches in stores in the center ofBarcelona.Taking this idea one step further, new coreference resolution strategies can be developedwith the aid of shallow paraphrasing techniques.
A two-step process for coreferenceresolution might consist of hypothesizing first sentence-level paraphrases via n-gramor named-entity overlapping, aligning phrases that are (possible) paraphrases, andhypothesizing that they corefer.
Second, a coreference module can act as a filter andprovide a second classification.
Such a procedure could be successful for the casesexemplified in Examples (12) to (14).This strategy reverses the tacit assumption that coreference is solved beforesentence-level paraphrasing.
Meaning alone does not make it possible to state that thetwo pairs in Example (5b), repeated in Example (15), or the two pairs in Example (16)are paraphrases without first solving the coreference relations.
(15) a.
The Atle?tico de Madrid goalkeeper, A. Jime?nez, yesterday realized one of hisdreams by defeating Barcelona: ?I had never beaten Barcelona.?b.
The Atle?tico de Madrid goalkeeper, A. Jime?nez, yesterday realized one ofhis dreams by defeating Barcelona, and said that he had never beatenBarcelona.
(16) a.
Secretary of State Colin Powell last week ruled out a non-aggression treaty.b.
But Secretary of State Colin Powell brushed off this possibility.However, cooperative work between paraphrasing and coreference is not always pos-sible, and it is harder if neither of the two can be detected by means of widely usedstrategies.
In other cases, cooperation can even be misleading.
In Example (17), the twobold phrases are paraphrases, but their subjects do not corefer.
The detection of wordslike another (Example (17b)) gives a key to help to prevent this kind of error.
(17) a.
A total of 26 Cuban citizens remain in the police station of the airport ofBarajas after requesting political asylum.b.
Another three Cubans requested political asylum.On the basis of these various examples, we claim that a full understanding of boththe similarities and disparities will enable fruitful collaboration between researchersworking on paraphrasing and those working on coreference.
Even more importantly,645Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4our main claim is that such an understanding about the fundamental linguistic issues isa prerequisite for building paraphrase and coreference systems not lacking in linguisticrigor.
In brief, we call for the return of linguistics to paraphrasing and coreferenceautomatic applications, as well as to NLP in general, adhering to the call by Wintner(2009: 643), who cites examples that demonstrate ?what computational linguistics canachieve when it is backed up and informed by linguistic theory?
(page 643).AcknowledgmentsWe are grateful to Eduard Hovy, M.
Anto`niaMart?
?, Horacio Rodr?
?guez, and MarionaTaule?
for their helpful advice as experiencedresearchers.
We would also like to expressour gratitude to the three anonymousreviewers for their suggestions to improvethis article.This work was partly supported by FPUGrants AP2006-00994 and AP2008-02185from the Spanish Ministry of Education,and Project TEXT-MESS 2.0 (TIN2009-13391-C04-04).ReferencesAndroutsopoulos, Ion and ProdromosMalakasiotis.
2010.
A survey ofparaphrasing and textual entailmentmethods.
Journal of Artificial IntelligenceResearch, 38:135?187.Bhagat, Rahul.
2009.
LearningParaphrases from Text.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Southern California,Los Angeles, CA.Callison-Burch, Chris.
2007.
Paraphrasing andTranslation.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofEdinburgh, Edinburgh.Doddington, George, Alexis Mitchell, MarkPrzybocki, Lance Ramshaw, StephanieStrassel, and Ralph Weischedel.
2004.The Automatic Content Extraction (ACE)program?Tasks, data, and evaluation.In Proceedings of the 4th InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2004), pages 837?840,Lisbon.Dolan, Bill, Chris Brockett, and Chris Quirk.2005.
README file included in theMicrosoft Research Paraphrase Corpus,March, Redmond, WA.Dras, Mark.
1999.
Tree Adjoining Grammarand the Reluctant Paraphrasing of Text.
Ph.D.thesis, Macquarie University, Sydney.Fuchs, Catherine.
1994.
Paraphrase ete?nonciation.
Mode?lisation de la paraphraselangagie`re.
Ophrys, Paris.Fujita, Atsushi.
2005.
Automatic Generation ofSyntactically Well-formed and SemanticallyAppropriate Paraphrases.
Ph.D. thesis, NaraInstitute of Science and Technology,Ikoma, Nara.Haghighi, Aria and Dan Klein.
2009.Simple coreference resolution with richsyntactic and semantic features.
InProceedings of the Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP 2009), pages 1152?1161,Singapore.Hirschman, Lynette and Nancy Chinchor.1997.
MUC-7 Coreference task definition?Version 3.0.
In Proceedings of the MessageUnderstanding Conference-7 (MUC-7),Washington, DC.Hirst, Graeme J.
1981.
Anaphora in NaturalLanguage Understanding: A Survey.Springer-Verlag, Berlin.Karttunen, Lauri.
1976.
Discourse referents.In J. McCawley, editor, Syntax andSemantics, volume 7.
Academic Press,New York, pages 363?385.Madnani, Nitin and Bonnie J. Dorr.
2010.Generating phrasal and sententialparaphrases: A survey of data-drivenmethods.
Computational Linguistics, 36,pages 341?387.Milic?evic?, Jasmina.
2007.
La paraphrase.Peter Lang, Berne.Ng, Vincent.
2010.
Supervised noun phrasecoreference research: The first fifteenyears.
In Proceedings of the 48th Meetingof the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL 2010), Uppsala,pages 1396?1411.Poesio, Massimo and Yannick Versley.
2009.Computational models for theinterpretation of anaphora: A survey.Notes from the ACL-2009 Tutorial onState-of-the-art NLP Approaches toCoreference Resolution, Singapore.Recasens, Marta, Eduard Hovy, andM.
Anto`nia Mart??.
2010.
A typology ofnear-identity relations for coreference(NIDENT).
In Proceedings of the 7thInternational Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2010),pages 149?156, Valletta.Recasens, Marta and M. Anto`nia Mart??.
2010.AnCora-CO: Coreferentially annotated646Recasens and Vila On Paraphrase and Coreferencecorpora for Spanish and Catalan.
LanguageResources and Evaluation, 44(4):315?345.doi: 10.1007/s10579-009-9108-x.Shinyama, Yusuke and Satoshi Sekine.2003.
Paraphrase acquisition forinformation extraction.
In Proceedings ofthe ACL 2nd International Workshop onParaphrasing (IWP 2003), pages 65?71,Sapporo.van Deemter, Kees and Rodger Kibble.
2000.On coreferring: Coreference in MUC andrelated annotation schemes.
ComputationalLinguistics, 26(4):629?637.Vila, Marta, Santiago Gonza?lez, M.
Anto`niaMart?
?, Joaquim Llisterri, and M. Jesu?sMachuca.
2010.
ClInt: A bilingualSpanish-Catalan spoken corpus ofclinical interviews.
Procesamiento delLenguaje Natural, 45, 105?111.Wintner, Shuly.
2009.
What scienceunderlies Natural Language Engineering?Computational Linguistics, 35(4):641?644.647
