Book ReviewIntroduction to Chinese Natural Language ProcessingKam-Fai Wong, Wenjie Li, Ruifeng Xu, and Zheng-sheng Zhang(Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Polytechnic University,City University of Hong Kong, and San Diego State University)Princeton, NJ: Morgan & Claypool (Synthesis Lectures on Human LanguageTechnologies, edited by Graeme Hirst, volume 4), 2010, x+148 pp; paperbound,ISBN 978-1-59829-932-8, $40.00; e-book, ISBN 978-1-59829-933-5, $30.00or by subscriptionReviewed byMin ZhangInstitute for Infocomm ResearchThis introductory book is a systematic and up-to-date overview of fundamental andfocused knowledge of Chinese NLP for both practitioners and a general audience.
TheChinese language has the largest number of native speakers in the world, with over onebillion people speaking some style of Chinese.
The globalization and the developmentof the Internet have significantly increased the participation of Chinese-speaking usersin global business and social life, accounting for the highest growth rate in on-linepopulation over the past decade.Despite its increasing importance, the uniqueness of Chinese renders the computerprocessing of the language distinctive and challenging.
With a clear awareness of manydifferences between Chinese and other languages in morphology, syntax, and seman-tics, the authors focus the subject matter on morphological analysis, which means theychoose to pay close attention to the essential processing techniques that lay down thefoundation of any advanced Chinese NLP system.
For many readers who are puzzledby ?why on earth we have to bother with Chinese NLP given the availability of English-language processing technologies,?
this book is suitable puzzle-solving material; forundergraduate and postgraduate students interested in the field, knowledge regardingthe fundamentals of computer processing of Chinese language can be acquired; for aveteran already who knows everything in Chinese NLP, this is a useful and lightweightreference book.
Overall, this book has a large potential audience of readers who areinterested in Chinese NLP at all levels.The book consists of eight chapters of main material, an appendix of linguisticresources, and a bibliography.
Chapter 1 gives an introduction by raising the uniquecharacteristics of Chinese.
A couple of interesting examples are used to explain theproblem of ambiguity caused by the lack of clear delimiters between words in Chi-nese text.
Then it proceeds to illustrate how other types of difficulties are producedat morphological, syntactic, and semantic levels.
From these discussions, Chapter 1highlights and concludes that ?The main difference in NLP between Chinese and otherlanguages takes place in the first stage.
This lays down the objective of the book, namely,to introduce the basic techniques in Chinese morphological analysis.
?Chapter 2 describes the basic forms of morphological construction in Chinesewritten script, providing the necessary preparation for morphological analysis in thelater chapters.
It introduces the concepts of characters, morphemes, and words, as wellas the typical morphological processes of word formation.
In particular, the authorsComputational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4provide sufficient details on the nature of the compounding that plays a predominantrole in Chinese word formation and appears much more prevalent than that in English.A number of examples make the content easy to follow, especially for internationallearners who are not familiar with Chinese.Given these primary linguistic characteristics, Chapter 3 particularizes the chal-lenges that arise from a wide spectrum of morphological problems of Chinese.
Com-pared to an alphabetic system like English, the difficulties of Chinese morphologicalprocessing not only result from its representation and writing conventions, such as alarge character set, multiple co-existing variants of character sets and encoding stan-dards, dialectal variations, special genres of punctuation, and so on, but also fromits underlying linguistic heritage and distinctions.
For example, the lack of formalmorphological markers may render part-of-speech tagging troublesome due to fewpart-of-speech clues and multiple parts of speech for the same word; the indetermi-nacy may be worsened by homophony and homography.
The authors emphasize theinfluences of different kinds of ambiguities and out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words andsuggest that external knowledge and contextual information are important to ambiguityresolution.Chapter 4 reviews Chinese word segmentation, a major challenge unique to Chi-nese and a few other Asian languages.
A tree-based taxonomy is used to classifysegmentation algorithms into character- and word-based approaches.
Besides the rudi-mentary methods, emphasis is given to those methods using statistics and machinelearning that take the advantage of large-scale annotated corpora to solve the segmen-tation ambiguity issue.
Three main Chinese word segmentation standards are intro-duced, together with the performance measures and benchmark data widely used forevaluation.As one of the major challenges in Chinese word segmentation, unknown wordidentification (UWI) is discussed separately in Chapter 5, probably because of its largerimpact on accuracy and greater difficulty.
Unknown words account for 60% of wordsegmentation errors.
Proper nouns representing person, place, and organization namesthat are missing from the dictionary are common sources of unknown words.
Newnames may appear on a daily basis, tending to intensify the OOV problem.
This chapterdescribes various means for UWI from both generic and specific point of views.
Thegeneral statistical methods based on co-occurrence statistics are depicted, followed bythe techniques for identifying specific types of proper nouns based on their particularformation patterns.
Two general methods worthy of review but missing are class-based language models (Fu and Luke 2004) and discriminative Markov models (Zhou2005), both of which make significant improvements by leveraging various types offeatures.Chapter 6 turns the reader?s attention from word structure to meaning; it familiar-izes themwith the gist of the basic semantic concepts, relations, and resources, and helpsbuild up knowledge for resolving deeper NLP problems such as word sense disam-biguation, parsing, and language understanding.
Three major contemporary Chinesethesauri, namely CILIN, HowNet, and CCD, are surveyed in comparison with the well-known English WordNet.
For example, HowNet has three unique features comparedto WordNet: (1) its concept definitions are based on sememes, which are specified in astructured mark-up language; (2) the semantic role relations can be connected acrosspart-of-speech categories such as between nouns and verbs; and (3) the concepts arerepresented in both Chinese and English.
Though structurally compatible, CCD differsfrom WordNet with some important extensions, such as more types of nouns, finerrelations, and examples of collocations selected from real corpora with quantitative778Book Reviewdescriptions.
The three major Chinese linguistic resources at the lexical semantic levelare valuable to Chinese NLP applications.Chapters 7 and 8 concentrate on Chinese word collocation, which is a common lexi-cal convention using the customary combination of words in expressions.
Starting withthe interesting example of historical burden as contrasted with historical luggage (burdenand luggage can be expressed with the same Chinese word), Chapter 7 places emphasison the concepts, distinguishing features, categorization, and data resources.
Althoughwidely used and easily comprehensible, collocation is defined in various ways and istherefore subject to controversy in the literature.
After a review of English collocation,the authors accentuate the major differences between Chinese and English collocations,and then define Chinese collocation as a lexically restricted word combination withemphasis on semantic and syntactic considerations.Chapter 8 elaborates on techniques for extracting Chinese collocations.
The surveycategorizes the existing methods into statistical, syntactic, semantic, and categoricalapproaches.
Given a headword and a context window, a statistical approach identifiesthe word combinations from the context inclusive of the head word with significantlexical statistics as the collocations; a syntactic approach resorts to syntactic knowledgeacquired from a parser to refine the candidates, assuming that collocation words aresyntactically dependent; a semantic approach exploits semantic relations such as syn-onyms obtained from WordNet to overcome the inaccuracies caused by insufficientstatistics; a categorical approach adopts a set of carefully tailored rules to identifycollocations of different types, which may potentially achieve better results, but themethod turns out to be less generalizable.
This language-specific approach correspondsto the characteristics of Chinese collocations.
The chapter would have beenmore helpfulif it had included the work on collocativity measures based on limited modifiabilitywith only shallow parsing (Wermter and Hahn 2004), statistical methods using accuratecollocational information based on full parsing (Seretan andWehrli 2006), and the morerecent monolingual word alignment method (Liu et al 2009).The appendix provides a comprehensive and categorized list of linguistic resources.The references are generally complete and helpful to readers interested in furtherstudies.In summary, the book is clear and self-contained, discussing fundamental andcritical issues in Chinese NLP.
As the foundation of any NLP technology, morphologicalanalysis (where Chinese morphology differs most apparently from other languages) isthe first crucial procedure prior to syntactic and semantic processing.
Although it wouldbe more integrated to include syntactic and semantic analysis, I do believe the authorshave made this choice wisely.
Given the limited number of pages, it makes sense tofocus on the essence with sufficient details to draw quick attention from many NLPreaders who are sensitive to the most salient and distinctive subject matters.
Instead ofelaborating the Chinese part alone, the authors adopt a helpful writing style so that,whenever applicable, comparative discussions are made on the corresponding issuesin other languages, especially English.
This bilingual perspective sheds more light onwhat constitutes the noteworthy features in Chinese and the reason why customarytechniques have to be or not be employed in Chinese NLP.
The reader might have hopedfor more polish and a better editorial quality in the book.
For instance, a repeatedlyreferred-to concept OAS is not pre-defined (Section 4.4); not all the extracted co-wordsshown in Tables 8.1?8.6 are true collocations, which should have been boldface as statedin the text.
In addition, one more chapter is needed to close the book by summarizingthe book with some conclusions and discussions on further readings beyond the intro-duction at Chinese morphological level.779Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4This book review was edited by Pierre Isabelle.ReferencesFu, Guohong and Kang-Kwong Luke.
2004.Chinese unknown word identificationusing class-based LM.
In Proceedings ofthe First International Joint Conferenceon Natural Language Processing,pages 704?713, Hainan Island.Liu, Zhanyi, Haifeng Wang, Hua Wu, andSheng Li.
2009.
Collocation extractionusing monolingual word alignmentmethod.
In Proceedings of the 2009Conference on Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing,pages 487?495, Singapore.Seretan, Violeta and Eric Wehrli.
2006.Accurate collocation extractionusing a multilingual parser.
InProceedings of the 21st InternationalConference on Computational Linguisticsand 44th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics,pages 953?960, Sydney.Wermter, Joachim and Udo Hahn.
2004.Collocation extraction based onmodifiability statistics.
In Proceedingsof the 20th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, pages 980?986,Geneva.Zhou, GuoDong.
2005.
A chunking strategytowards unknown word detectionin Chinese word segmentation.
InProceedings of the Second International JointConference on Natural Language Processing,pages 530?541, Jeju Island.Min Zhang is a research scientist at Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore.
His researchfocuses onmachine translation, information extraction, kernel-based statistical structure learning,and natural language processing.
Min Zhang?s address is 1 Fusionopolis Way, #21-01 Connexis(South Tower), Singapore 138632; e-mail: mzhang@i2r.a-star.edu.sg.780
