Commentary and DiscussionEntropy, the Indus Script, and Language:A Reply to R. SproatRajesh P. N. Rao?University of WashingtonNisha Yadav?
?Tara Institute of Fundamental ResearchMayank N.
Vahia?
?Tara Institute of Fundamental ResearchHrishikesh Joglekar?Ronojoy Adhikari?The Institute of Mathematical SciencesIravatham Mahadevan?Indus Research Centre1.
IntroductionIn a recent LastWords column (Sproat 2010), Richard Sproat laments the reviewing prac-tices of ?general science journals?
after dismissing our work and that of Lee, Jonathan,and Ziman (2010) as ?useless?
and ?trivially and demonstrably wrong.?
Although weexpect such categorical statements to have already raised some red flags in the mindsof readers, we take this opportunity to present a more accurate description of our work,point out the straw man argument used in Sproat (2010), and provide a more completecharacterization of the Indus script debate.
A separate response by Lee and colleaguesin this issue provides clarification of issues not covered here.2.
The Indus Script DebateThe Indus script refers to the approximately 4,000 inscriptions on seals, miniaturetablets, pottery, stoneware, copper plates, tools, weapons, and wood left behind by?
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.E-mail: rao@cs.washington.edu.??
Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, Tara Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai 400005,India.?
14 Dhus Wadi, Thakurdwar, Mumbai 400002, India.?
The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai 600113, India.?
Indus Research Centre, Roja Muthiah Research Library, Chennai 600113, India.?
2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4the Indus civilization, which flourished ca.
2600?1900 BCE in South Asia.
The existinginscriptions (see Figure 1(a) for examples) are relatively short, the average length being5 signs and the longest inscription on a single surface being 17 signs.
The numberof different symbols in the script is estimated to be about 400.
This large number ofsymbols, coupled with archaeological evidence indicating extensive use of the scriptfor a variety of purposes, led scholars to suggest that the script was probably a logosyl-labic form of writing, each sign representing a word or syllable (Parpola 1994; Possehl1996).In 2004, Sproat and colleagues published in the Electronic Journal of Vedic Studies anarticle whose title makes the unconditional pronouncement ?The Collapse of the Indusscript thesis: The myth of a literate Harappan civilization?
(Farmer, Sproat, and Witzel2004).
The article goes on to list arguments for why the authors believe the Indus scriptis nonlinguistic (the arguments are said to amount to a ?proof?
[Farmer 2005]).
Theypropose that the script is a collection of religious or political symbols.Sproat (2010) states that their arguments ?have been accepted by many archae-ologists and linguists,?
without actually citing who these ?many archaeologists andlinguists?
are.
In fact, a number of respected scholars, not just those who have ?spentmost of their careers trying to decipher the symbols?
(Sproat 2010), have voiced strongdisagreement (Kenoyer 2004; Possehl 2004; Mahadevan 2009).
Several have publishedpoint-by-point rebuttals (Parpola 2005; Vidale 2007; McIntosh 2008).
Parpola, who iswidely regarded as the leading authority on the Indus script, writes that the argumentsof Sproat and co-workers ?can be easily controverted?
and goes on to expose theinadequacies of each of these arguments (Parpola 2005, 2008).
McIntosh, in a recent bookon the ancient Indus valley, also discusses the evidence against the arguments of Sproatand colleagues (McIntosh 2008, pages 372?374).
Vidale, a well-known archaeologist,notes that the paper (Farmer, Sproat, and Witzel 2004) ?is constructed by repeatedlyadvancing hypotheses and sometimes wild speculation presented as serious scientificevidence?
and concludes by saying: ?I see no acceptable scientific demonstration ofthe non-scriptural nature of the Indus sign system; therefore, I see no collapse of such?thesis??
(Vidale 2007, page 362).3.
Fallacies ResolvedUnder a section entitled ?The Fallacies,?
Sproat (2010) describes a result from our articlein Science (Rao et al 2009a) which presents evidence against the thesis of Farmer, Sproat,andWitzel (2004).
In our article, we show that the conditional entropy of the Indus scriptis similar to various linguistic sequences.
The impression conveyed by Sproat (2010) isthat we are claiming such similarity by itself is sufficient to prove that the Indus script,or indeed any symbol system, is linguistic.
We do not make such a claim; instead, weonly note in Rao et al (2009a) that our result increases the evidence for the linguistichypothesis, when one takes into account other language-like properties of the script(see detailed explanation in Section 4 herein).To set up his criticism of our work, Sproat (2010) presents Figure 1A from ourScience paper but never mentions the results presented in Figure 1B in the same paper.Nor does he describe our more recent block entropy result (Rao 2010b), even thoughhe cites this paper (this new result extends the conditional entropy work).
Both ofthese results include data from demonstrably nonlinguistic sequences, namely, DNA,protein sequences, and Fortran code.
To present our work as ?simple experimentsinvolving randomly generated texts?
is, to say the least, a gross misrepresentation of ourwork.796Rao et al Entropy, the Indus Script, and LanguageFigure 1(a) Examples of the Indus script.
Three square stamp seals, each with an Indus text at the top.Last image: three rectangular seals and three miniature tablets with inscriptions (image credit:J. M. Kenoyer/Harappa.com).
(b) Block entropy scaling of the Indus script compared to naturallanguages and other sequences.
Symbols were signs for the Indus script; bases for DNA; aminoacids for proteins; change in pitch for music; characters for English; words for English, Tagalog,and Fortran; symbols in abugida (alphasyllabic) scripts for Tamil and Sanskrit; and symbols inthe cuneiform script for Sumerian (see Rao et al 2009a; Rao 2010a for details).
The values formusic are from Schmitt and Herzel (1997).
To compare sequences over different alphabet sizes L,the logarithm in the entropy calculation was taken to base L (417 for Indus, 4 for DNA, etc.).
Theresulting normalized block entropy is plotted as a function of block size.
Error bars denote onestandard deviation above/below mean entropy and are negligibly small except for block size 6.
(c) Log likelihood under a first-order Markov model for the Indus corpus for four texts (Athrough D) found in foreign lands compared to average log likelihood for a random set of50 Indus region texts not included in the training data (error bar denotes ?1 standard error ofmean).
The unusual sequencing of signs in the foreign texts, noted earlier by Parpola (1994), isreflected here in their significantly lower likelihood values.797Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4To correct this misrepresentation, we present in Figure 1(b) the block entropy result(adapted from Rao 2010b).
Block entropy generalizes Shannon entropy (Shannon 1948,1951) and the measure of bigram conditional entropy used in Rao et al (2009a) to blocksof N symbols.
Block entropy for block size N is defined as:HN = ?
?ip(N)i log p(N)i (1)where p(N)i are the probabilities of sequences (blocks) of N symbols.
Thus, for N = 1,block entropy is simply the standard unigram entropy and for N = 2, it is the entropyof bigrams.
Block entropy is useful because it provides a measure of the amount offlexibility allowed by the syntactic rules generating the analyzed sequences (Schmittand Herzel 1997): The more restrictive the rules, the smaller the number of syntacticallycorrect combinations of symbols and lower the entropy.
Correlations between symbolsare reflected in a sub-linear growth of HN with N (e.g., H2 < 2H1).Figure 1(b) plots the block entropies of various types of symbol sequences as theblock size is increased from N = 1 to N = 6 symbols.
To counter the problems posedby the small sample size of the Indus corpus (about 1,550 lines of text and 7,000 signoccurrences), we employed a Bayesian entropy estimation technique known as the NSBestimator (Nemenman, Shafee, and Bialek 2002), which has been shown to providegood estimates of entropy for undersampled discrete data.
Details regarding the NSBparameter settings and the data sets used for Figure 1(b) can be found in Rao (2010a).As seen in Figure 1(b), the block entropies of the Indus texts remain close to thoseof a variety of natural languages and far from the entropies for unordered and rigidlyordered sequences (Max Ent and Min Ent, respectively).
Also shown in the plot forcomparison are the entropies for a computer program written in the formal languageFortran, a music sequence (Beethoven?s Sonata no.
32; data from Schmitt and Herzel[1997]), and two sample biological sequences (DNA and proteins).
The biological se-quences and music have noticeably higher block entropies than the Indus script andnatural languages; the Fortran code has lower block entropies.Does the similarity in block entropies with linguistic systems in Figure 1(b) provethat the Indus script is linguistic?
We do not believe so.
In fact, we contend that barringa full decipherment, one cannot prove either the linguistic or nonlinguistic thesis,unlike Sproat and colleagues who have previously claimed to have ?proof?
for thenonlinguistic hypothesis (Farmer, Sproat, and Witzel 2004, pages 34 and 37; Farmer2005).
What we do claim, as we state in our Science paper and as explained inmore detailsubsequently, is that results such as the similarity in entropy in Figure 1(b) increase theevidence for the linguistic hypothesis, given other language-like properties of the Indusscript.However, Sproat, Liberman, and Shalizi (in a blog by Liberman [2009]) and Sproatat EMNLP?09 undertake the exercise of knocking down the straw man (?similarity inconditional entropy by itself implies language?)
and present artificial counterexamples(e.g., having Zipfian distribution) with conditional independence for bigrams (Sproat2010).
First, such an exercise misses the point: as stated earlier, we do not claim thatentropic similarity by itself is a sufficient condition for language.
Second, these ?coun-terexamples?
ignore the fact that the unigram and bigram entropies are markedly dif-ferent for both the Indus script and the linguistic systems, as is obvious from comparingFigures 1 and S1 in our Science paper (Rao et al 2009a).
More importantly, these artificialexamples fail to exhibit the scaling of block entropies beyond unigrams and bigramsexhibited by the Indus script and linguistic systems in Figure 1(b).798Rao et al Entropy, the Indus Script, and LanguageSproat (2010) criticizes our classification of ?Type 1?
and ?Type 2?
nonlinguistic sys-tems (corresponding to systems near Max Ent andMin Ent, respectively, in Figure 1(b)),saying these do not characterize any natural nonlinguistic systems.
It is clear fromFigure 1(b) that there do exist natural ?Type 1?
nonlinguistic sequences (DNA, proteinsequences).
The analogous result for conditional entropy was given in Figure 1B in Rao(2010b), which was omitted in Sproat (2010).
As for ?Type 2?
systems, Vidale (2007)provides a number of examples of ancient nonlinguistic systems fromCentral and SouthAsia whose properties are in line with such systems.
Section 6 herein discusses thesesystems as well as the specific cases of Vinc?a and kudurru sequencesmentioned in Sproat(2010).
Sproat, Farmer, and colleagues have objected to the use of artificial data sets inRao et al (2009a) to demarcate the Max Ent and Min Ent limits: This objection is a redherring and does not change the result that the Indus script is entropically similar tolinguistic scripts.
Finally, the allusion in Sproat (2010) that we may be ?confused?
aboutthe difference between ?random?
and ?equiprobable?
is unwarranted and not worthyof comment here.
The related issue of artificially generated examples with quasi-Zipfiandistributions has already been discussed in this response.We conclude by noting here that the extension of our original conditional entropyresult to block entropies directly addresses the objections of Pereira (2009), who stressedthe need to go beyond bigram statistics, which Figure 1(b) does for N up to 6.
BeyondN = 6, the entropy estimates become less reliable due to the small sample size of theIndus corpus.4.
Inductive InferenceThe correct way of interpreting the block entropy result in Figure 1(b) (and likewise theconditional entropy result) is to view it within an inductive framework (rather than ina deductive sense as Sproat and others do in Liberman [2009]).
Given that we cannotanswer the ontological question ?Does the Indus script represent language??
without atrue decipherment, we formulate the question as an epistemological problem, namely,one of estimating the posterior probability of the hypothesis HL that an unknownsymbol sequence represents language, given various properties P1,P2,P3, .
.
.
of theunknown sequence.
Using a Bayesian formalism, the posterior P(HL|P1,P2,P3, .
.
.)
isproportional to P(P1,P2,P3, .
.
.
|HL)P(HL).Building on prior work (Hunter 1934; Knorozov, Volchok, and Gurov 1968;Mahadevan 1977; Parpola 1994), we have sought to quantitatively characterize variousproperties P1,P2,P3, .
.
.
of the Indus script (Yadav et al 2008a, 2008b, 2010; Rao et al2009a, 2009b; Rao 2010b).
In each case, we compare these properties with those oflinguistic systems to ascertain whether the property tilts the evidence towards or awayfrom the linguistic hypothesis HL.We find these properties to be as follows: (1) Linearity: The Indus texts are linearlywritten, like the vast majority of linguistic scripts (and unlike nonlinguistic systemssuch as medieval heraldry, Boy Scout merit badges, or highway/airport signs, systemsfrequently mentioned by Sproat and colleagues).
(2) Directionality: There is clear evi-dence for directionality in the script: Texts were usually written from right to left, a factthat can be inferred, for example, from a sign being overwritten by another on its lefton pottery (Lal 1966).
Directionality is a universal characteristic of linguistic systemsbut not necessarily of nonlinguistic systems (e.g., heraldry, Boy Scout badges).
(3) Useof Diacritical Marks: Indus symbols are often modified by the addition of specific setsof marks over, around, or inside a symbol.
Multiple symbols are sometimes combined799Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4(?ligatured?)
to form a single glyph.
This is similar to linguistic scripts, including laterIndian scripts which use such ligatures and diacritical marks above, below, or around asymbol to modify the sound of a root consonant or vowel symbol.
(4) Zipf?MandelbrotLaw: The script obeys the Zipf?Mandelbrot law, a power-law distribution on rankeddata, which is often considered a necessary (though not sufficient) condition for language(Yadav et al 2010).
(5) Syntactic Structure: The script exhibits distinct language-likesyntactic structure including equivalence classes of symbols with respect to positionalpreference, classes of symbols that function as beginners and enders, symbol clustersthat prefer particular positions within texts, etc.
(Hunter 1934; Parpola 1994; Yadav et al2008a, 2008b).
This structure is evident in both short texts as well as longer texts thatare up to 17 symbols long.
(6) Diverse usage: The script was used on a wide range ofmedia (from seals, tablets, and pottery to copper plates, tools, clay tags, and at least onelarge wooden board), suggesting a diverse usage similar to linguistic scripts, and unlikenonlinguistic systems such as pottery markings, deity symbols on boundary stones, andso on, whose use is typically limited to one type of medium.
(7) Use in Foreign Lands:Indus texts have been discovered as far west as Mesopotamia and the Persian Gulf.These texts typically use the same signs as texts found in the Indus region but altertheir ordering.
As shown in Figure 1(c), these ?foreign?
texts have low likelihood valuescompared to Indus region texts, even after taking into account regional variation across theIndus region (see error bar in Figure 1(c)) (Rao et al 2009b; Rao 2010b).
This suggeststhat, like other linguistic scripts, the Indus script may have been versatile enough torepresent different subject matter or a different language in foreign regions.Note that although one may find a nonlinguistic system that exhibits one of theseproperties (e.g., Zipfian distribution) and another that exhibits a different property (e.g.,ligaturing), it would be highly unusual for a nonlinguistic system to exhibit a confluenceof all of these properties.To these properties, we add the property in Figure 1(b) that the Indus script showsthe same type of entropic scaling as linguistic systems.
To estimate the prior probabilityP(HL), one could take into account, as a number of scholars have (Vidale 2007; Parpola2008; Mahadevan 2009), the archaeological evidence regarding the cultural sophistica-tion of the Indus civilization, contact with other literate societies, and the extensive useof the script for trade and other purposes.
These factors suggest that P(HL) is higher thanchance.
Considering the properties discussed previously and our estimate of P(HL), theproduct P(P1,P2,P3, .
.
.
|HL)P(HL) suggests a higher posterior probability for the linguistichypothesis than the nonlinguistic alternative.
Given our current data and knowledgeabout the script, we believe this is the kind of statement one can make about the Indusscript, rather than statements about the ?collapse?
of one thesis or another (Farmer,Sproat, and Witzel 2004).To claim to have ?proof?
of the nonlinguistic thesis (Farmer, Sproat, and Witzel2004, pages 34 and 37; Farmer 2005) would amount to showing a posterior probabilityof zero for the linguistic hypothesis.
This is clearly not possible given our current stateof knowledge about the script and the lack of an accepted decipherment.Could the result in Figure 1(b) be an artifact of our particular entropy estimationmethod?We do not think so.
A similar block entropy result was obtained independentlyby Schmitt and Herzel (1997) using an entirely different entropy estimation method (seeFigure 8 in their paper).
The overall result is also confirmed by other methods, as dis-cussed by Schmitt and Herzel: ?This order?DNA, music, human language, computerlanguage?when ordered by decreasing entropy, is confirmed by the calculation of theLempel-Ziv complexity (Lempel and Ziv 1976) which also serves as an estimation of theentropy of the source?
(Schmitt and Herzel 1997, page 376).800Rao et al Entropy, the Indus Script, and Language5.
Comparison with Ancient Nonlinguistic SystemsSproat contends that results such as the similarity in entropy scaling in Figure 1(b)are ?useless?
without analyzing a sizeable number of ?ancient nonlinguistic systems?
(Sproat 2010).
As mentioned earlier, Sproat ignores the fact that the results alreadyinclude nonlinguistic systems: DNA and protein sequences (perhaps the two ?mostancient?
nonlinguistic systems!)
as well as man-made sequences (Fortran code andmusic in Figure 1(b)).We believe entropic results such as Figure 1(b) to be both interesting and useful.
Ananalogy may be apt here: If, in the dim surroundings of a jungle, you notice somethingmoving and then spot some stripes, your belief that what is lurking is a tiger will likelygo up, even though it could also be a zebra, a man wearing a tiger costume, or any of anumber of possibilities.
The observation you made that the object under considerationhas stripes is certainly not ?useless?
in this case, just because you haven?t ascertainedwhether antelopes or elephants in the jungle also have stripes.
In other words, we nowknow that various types of symbol sequences, from natural sequences such as DNAand proteins to man-made systems such as music and Fortran, occupy quite differententropic ranges compared to linguistic systems (Figure 1(b); Figure 8 in Schmitt andHerzel [1997]).
Given this knowledge, the finding that Indus sequences occupy the sameentropic range as linguistic sequences, although not proving that the Indus script islinguistic, certainly increases the posterior probability of the linguistic hypothesis, justas the observation of stripes increases the posterior probability of the ?tiger?
hypothesisin our earlier example.1 As to where ancient nonlinguistic systems may lie among theentropic ranges in Figure 1(b), we discuss this in the next section.6.
Countless Nonlinguistic Sign Systems?Sproat and colleagues have stated that the properties observed in the Indus script arealso seen in ?countless nonlinguistic sign systems?
(Farmer, Sproat, and Witzel 2004,page 21).
Let us consider some of these nonlinguistic systems (Sproat 2010; Farmer,Sproat, and Witzel 2004).
Medieval European heraldry, Boy Scout merit badges, andairport/highway signs are not linear juxtapositions of symbols that can be up to 17symbols long, as we find in the case of the Indus script, nor do they exhibit a conflu-ence of script-like properties as enumerated herein.
We invite the reader to compareexamples of heraldry (Parker 1894), Boy Scout badges (Boy Scouts of America 2010),and airport/highway signs with the Indus script sequences in Figure 1(a) and judge forthemselves whether such a comparison bears merit.Another nonlinguistic system mentioned in Sproat (2010) is the Vinc?a sign system,which refers to the markings on pottery and other artifacts from the Vinc?a culture ofsoutheastern Europe of ca.
6000?4000 BCE.
Sproat believes there is order in the Vinc?asystem and states that we ?mis-cite?
Winn.
To set the record straight, here is what Winnhas to say in his article in a section on Sign Groups (Winn 1990, page 269):Neither the order nor the direction of the signs in these (sign) groups is generallydeterminable: judging by the frequent lack of arrangement, precision in the orderprobably was unimportant .
.
.Miniature vessels also possess sign-like clusters(Figure 12.2j), which are characteristically disarranged.1 Under certain assumptions, one can derive a quantitative estimate of the increase in posterior probabilityfrom a result such as Figure 1(b).
We refer the reader to Siddharthan (2009) for details.801Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4This contradicts Sproat (2010) and suggests that the Vinc?a system, if it indeed lacksprecision in the order of signs, would be closer to the maximum entropy (Max Ent)range than to the linguistic scripts in Figure 1(b).
The actual amount of lack of precisionunfortunately cannot be quantified in entropic terms because a large enough data set ofVinc?a sequences does not exist.Sproat also draws attention to the carvings of deities on Mesopotamian boundarystones known as kudurrus.
He declares that our statement regarding kudurru deitysequences obeying rigid rules of ordering compared to linguistic scripts is ?clearlyfalse.?
To shed more light on this issue, we cite here the work of several scholars inthis field.
Slanski, in a recent in-depth study of the form and function of kudurrus, states(Slanski 2003, page 163):Hierarchical deployment of the divine symbols.
Seidl (1989) observed that, to a certainextent, the divine symbols were deployed upon the Entitlement naru?s (kudurrus)according to the deities?
relative positions in the pantheon.
The symbols for the highergods of the pantheon .
.
.
are generally found upon or toward the top and mostprominent part of the monument.
Deities lower in the pantheon are deployed towardthe bottom of the relief field.A similar statement on the hierarchical ordering of symbols on kudurrus can be foundin Black and Green (1992, page 114).
The reader will probably agree that a system witheven a rough hierarchical ordering among its symbols is more rigid than most linguisticsystems.
Linguistic systems have no such hierarchy imposed on characters or words,and there is considerable flexibility in where such symbols may be placed within asequence.
Therefore, as originally suggested in Rao et al (2009a), we expect the entropyof the kudurru sequences to be lower than linguistic systems and perhaps slightly abovethe minimum entropy (Min Ent) range in Figure 1(b).
Again, the actual entropy valuescannot be estimated because, as admitted in Sproat (2010), a large enough data set ofkudurru sequences does not exist.Sproat (2010) says that no one has done the ?legwork?
of putting together a largedata set of ancient nonlinguistic systems.
This ignores the work of Vidale (2007), whodid put together a set of ten such systems.
Vidale questions the relevance of the non-linguistic systems suggested by Sproat and colleagues because they are neither of thesame time period nor from the same geographical region as the Indus script.
To rectifythis oversight, Vidale lists ten nonlinguistic systems from Central and South Asia thatwere roughly contemporaneous with the Indus script (Table 1 in Vidale 2007).
For thisset of much more relevant nonlinguistic systems, Vidale demonstrates that the averagenumber of different signs is only about 44, a far cry from the 400 or so signs in the Indusscript.Are the kind of positional regularities found in the Indus script also found incountless nonlinguistic sign systems (Farmer, Sproat, and Witzel 2004, page 21)?
Vidalestates that the archaeological data lead us to question this ?superficial claim?
(Vidale2007, page 344).
In the ten nonlinguistic systems roughly contemporary with the Indusscript, positional regularities can either be ?largely ruled out?
(e.g., in potters?
markingswhere signs occur mostly in isolation and rarely in couples) or the regularities takethe form of ?systematic, large-scale redundancy?
(e.g., constant repetition of the samesymbols).
Such systems would fall roughly in the ?Type 2?
category of nonlinguisticsystems suggested in our Science paper (Rao et al 2009a), lying closer to the mini-mum entropy (Min Ent) range in Figure 1(b) than to the Indus script and linguisticsystems.802Rao et al Entropy, the Indus Script, and Language7.
Implications of the Linguistic versus Nonlinguistic HypothesesIf the Indus script does encode language, what might the content of the inscriptionsbe?
A majority of the Indus texts are found on stamp seals (Figure 1(a)), which weretypically used in Bronze Age cultures for regulating trade.
Seals were pressed ontoclay used to seal packages of goods.
Indeed, a number of such clay tags have beenfound at various sites in the Indus civilization, bearing seal impressions on one side andimpressions of woven cloth, reed matting or other packing material on the other.
Thesearchaeological observations suggest that the short Indus texts on seals (Figure 1(a)),like their other Bronze age counterparts, probably represent the contents, the origin ordestination, the type or amount of goods being traded, name and title of the owner,or some combination of these.
Similar linguistic explanations can be found for theinscriptions on other media.If, on the other hand, as Sproat and colleagues propose, the script merely representsreligious or political symbols, one is hard pressed to explain: (1) how and why weresequences of such symbols, with syntactic rules entropically similar to linguistic scripts(Figure 1(b)), used in trade in a manner strikingly similar to other literate Bronze agecultures?
and (2) why did the Indus people use these symbols in consistent sequencesin their native region and alter their ordering when in a foreign land (Figure 1(c))?As pointed out by other authors (Vidale 2007; Parpola 2008; Mahadevan 2009), suchincongruities are more the norm than the exception if one accepts the nonlinguisticthesis espoused by Sproat and colleagues.
The principle of Occam?s razor then suggeststhat we reject the nonlinguistic hypothesis in favor of the simpler linguistic one.8.
ConclusionA large number of identification problems are amenable to statistical tests, and representperhaps the only way to solve these problems.
Practical examples include separatinge-mail from spam and recognizing faces in digital camera images.
Even though wemay not have a perfect test for any of these problems, the statistical methods that areused can be quite useful, even if they are fallible (we all rely on spam detectors fore-mail even if they occasionally let a spam e-mail through; we do not discard thesedetectors as ?useless?).
An important goal of our work (Rao et al 2009a, 2009b; Rao2010b; Yadav et al 2010) has been to develop better statistical tests for linguistic systems.As with other statistical tests, it would be foolhardy to expect that a single such test isinfallible, as assumed by Sproat and others in their quest to find ?counterexamples?
(Sproat 2010).
The observation that a single statistical test by itself is insufficient wasthe primary motivation for the inductive framework adopted in our research, where weapply a range of tests and estimate the posterior probability that an unknown sequencerepresents language (Section 4).In the concluding remarks of his Last Words column, Sproat says it is not clear ifeditors of prominent science journals ?even know that there are people who spend theirlives doing statistical and computational analyses of text?
(Sproat 2010).
We find such astatement surprising because it fails to acknowledge both the impressive achievementsof the field of computational linguistics in recent years and the wide coverage of theseaccomplishments in the popular press (Fletcher [2010] and Lohr and Markoff [2010], togive two recent examples).Computational linguistics is playing an important role in our understanding ofancient scripts (Koskenniemi 1981; Knight and Yamada 1999; Rao et al 2009a, 2009b;Snyder, Barzilay, and Knight 2010; Yadav et al 2010).
Rather than representing a ?misuse803Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4of the methods of the field of computational linguistics?
(Sproat 2010), techniques fromthe field are providing new insights into the structure and function of undecipheredscripts such as the Indus script.
For example, we now know that the kind of regularitiesfound in the Indus script can be exploited by statistical models to fill in missing orillegible inscriptions with most likely predictions (Rao et al 2009b; Yadav et al 2010).Recent n-gram analysis of the Indus script has revealed that there are interesting de-pendencies between signs that go beyond just pairs of signs (Yadav et al 2010).
Addi-tionally, these statistical models have allowed us to quantify the differences betweenIndus inscriptions found in West Asia and those found in the Indus region (Figure 1(c)),suggesting the script may have been flexible enough to represent different content oreven a different language in foreign regions.Indus script research has benefited immensely from the application of ideasand methods from computational linguistics for almost four decades (Koskenniemi,Parpola, and Parpola 1970; Koskenniemi 1981; Parpola 1994).
We believe computationallinguistics will continue to make important contributions to Indus script research in theyears to come.ReferencesBlack, Jeremy and Anthony Green.
1992.Gods, Demons and Symbols of AncientMesopotamia.
British Museum Press,London.Boy Scouts of America.
2010.
Introduction tomerit badges.
http://www.scouting.org/scoutsource/BoyScouts/AdvancementandAwards/MeritBadges.aspx.Farmer, Steve.
2005.
Simple proof against the?Indus script?.
http://www.safarmer.com/indus/simpleproof.html.Farmer, Steve, Richard Sproat, and MichaelWitzel.
2004.
The collapse of the Indusscript thesis: The myth of a literateHarappan civilization.
Electronic Journal ofVedic Studies, 11(2):19?57.Fletcher, Owen.
2010.
Microsoft mines Webto hone language tool.Wall Street Journal,August 3. http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703545604575406771145298614.html.Hunter, Gerald.
1934.
The Script of Harappaand Mohenjodaro and Its Connection withOther Scripts.
Kegan Paul, London.Kenoyer, Mark.
2004.
Quoted in Lawler,Andrew.
2004.
The Indus script: Writeor wrong?
Science, 306:2026?2029;page 2026.Knight, Kevin and Kenji Yamada.
1999.
Acomputational approach to decipheringunknown scripts.
Proc.
of ACL Workshopon Unsup.
Learning in Natural Lang.Processing.Knorozov, Yuri, Volchok, B. Y., and Gurov,N.
V. 1968.
Proto-Indica: Brief Report on theInvestigation of the Proto-Indian Texts.Academy of Sciences of the USSR,Moscow.Koskenniemi, Kimmo.
1981.
Syntacticmethods in the study of the Indus script.Studia Orientalia, 50:125?136.Koskenniemi, Seppo, Asko Parpola, andSimo Parpola.
1970.
A method to classifycharacters of unknown ancient scripts.Linguistics, 61:65?91.Lal, B.
B.
1966.
The direction of writing in theHarappan script.
Antiquity, XL:52?55.Lee, Rob, Philip Jonathan, and PaulineZiman.
2010.
Pictish symbols revealed as awritten language through application ofShannon entropy.
Proceedings of the RoyalSociety A, 466:2545?2560.Lempel, Abraham and Jacob Ziv.
1976.
Onthe complexity of finite sequences.
IEEETransactions on Information Theory,22:75?81.Liberman, Mark.
2009.
Conditional entropyand the Indus script.
http://languagelog.ldc.upenn.edu/nll/?p=1374.Lohr, Steve and John Markoff.
2010.Computers learn to listen, and some talkback.
New York Times, June 24. http://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/25/science/25voice.html.Mahadevan, Iravatham.
1977.
The IndusScript: Texts, Concordance and Tables.Archaeological Survey of India, Calcutta.Mahadevan, Iravatham.
2009.
The Indusnon-script is a non-issue.
The Hindu,May 3. http://www.hindu.com/mag/2009/05/03/stories/2009050350010100.htm.McIntosh, Jane.
2008.
The Ancient IndusValley: New Perspectives.
ABC CLIO, SantaBarbara, CA.Nemenman, Ilya, Fariel Shafee, and WilliamBialek.
2002.
Entropy and inference,804Rao et al Entropy, the Indus Script, and Languagerevisited.
In T. G. Dietterich, S. Becker,and Z. Ghahramani, editors, Advancesin Neural Information ProcessingSystems 14.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA,pages 471?478.Parker, James.
1894.
A glossary of termsused in heraldry.
http://www.heraldsnet.org/saitou/parker/gallery/Page.html.Parpola, Asko.
1994.
Deciphering the Indusscript.
Cambridge University Press,New York.Parpola, Asko.
2005.
Study of the Indusscript.
Proceedings of the InternationalConference of Eastern Studies, 50:28?66.Parpola, Asko.
2008.
Is the Indus scriptindeed not a writing system?
InAiravati: Felicitation Volume in honor ofIravatham Mahadevan.
Varalaaru.compublishers, India, pages 111?131.http://www.harappa.com/script/indus-writing.pdf.Pereira, Fernando.
2009.
Falling for the magicformula.
http://earningmyturns.blogspot.com/2009/04/falling-for-magic-formula.html.Possehl, Gregory.
1996.
The Indus Age: TheWriting System.
University of PennsylvaniaPress, Philadelphia.Possehl, Gregory.
2004.
Quoted in Lawler,Andrew.
2004.
The Indus script: Write orwrong?
Science, 306:2026?2029.Rao, Rajesh.
2010a.
Block entropy analysis ofthe Indus script and natural languages.http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/rao/BlockEntropy.html.Rao, Rajesh.
2010b.
Probabilistic analysis ofan ancient undeciphered script.
IEEEComputer, 43(4):76?80.Rao, Rajesh, Nisha Yadav, Mayank Vahia,Hrishikesh Joglekar, R. Adhikari, andIravatham Mahadevan.
2009a.
Entropicevidence for linguistic structure in theIndus script.
Science, 324:1165.Rao, Rajesh, Nisha Yadav, Mayank Vahia,Hrishikesh Joglekar, R. Adhikari, andIravatham Mahadevan.
2009b.
A Markovmodel of the Indus script.
Proceedings of theNational Academy of Sciences (PNAS),106:13685?13690.Schmitt, Armin and Hanspeter Herzel.
1997.Estimating the entropy of DNA sequences.Journal of Theoretical Biology, 1888:369?377.Seidl, Ursula.
1989.
Die babylonischenKudurru-Reliefs.
Symbole mesopotamischerGottheiten.
Universita?tsverlag Freiburg,Freiburg.Shannon, Claude.
1948.
A mathematicaltheory of communication.
Bell SystemTechnical Journal, 27:379?423, 623?656.Shannon, Claude.
1951.
Prediction andentropy of printed English.
Bell SystemTechnical Journal, 30:50?64.Siddharthan, Rahul.
2009.
More Industhoughts and links.
http://horadecubitus.blogspot.com/2009/05/more-indus-thoughts-and-links.html.Slanski, Kathryn.
2003.
The BabylonianEntitlement Naru?s (kudurrus): A Studyin Their Form and Function.
AmericanSchools of Oriental Research,Boston, MA.Snyder, Benjamin, Regina Barzilay, andKevin Knight.
2010.
A statistical modelfor lost language decipherment.Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 1048?1057, Uppsala.Sproat, Richard.
2010.
Ancient symbols,computational linguistics, and thereviewing practices of the general sciencejournals.
Computational Linguistics,36(3):585?594.Vidale, Massimo.
2007.
The collapse meltsdown: A reply to Farmer, Sproat andWitzel.
East and West, 57:333?366.Winn, Shan.
1990.
A Neolithic sign system insoutheastern Europe.
In M. L. Foster andL.
J. Botscharow, editors, The Life ofSymbols.
Westview Press, Boulder, CO,pages 269?271.Yadav, Nisha, Hrishikesh Joglekar, RajeshRao, Mayank Vahia, Ronojoy Adhikari,and Iravatham Mahadevan.
2010.Statistical analysis of the Indus scriptusing n-grams.
PLoS One, 5(3):e9506.doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0009506.Yadav, Nisha, Mayank Vahia, IravathamMahadevan, and Hrishikesh Joglekar.2008a.
Segmentation of Indus texts.International Journal of Dravidian Linguistics,37(1):53?72.Yadav, Nisha, Mayank Vahia, IravathamMahadevan, and Hrishikesh Joglekar.2008b.
A statistical approach for patternsearch in Indus writing.
InternationalJournal of Dravidian Linguistics,37(1):39?52.805
