Book ReviewIntroduction to Linguistic Annotation and Text AnalyticsGraham Wilcock(University of Helsinki)Princeton, NJ: Morgan & Claypool (Synthesis Lectures on Human LanguageTechnologies, edited by Graeme Hirst, volume 2, No.
1), 2009, x+149 pp;paperbound, ISBN 978-1-59829-738-6, $40.00; ebook, ISBN 978-1-59829-739-3,$30.00 or by subscriptionReviewed byUdo HahnFriedrich-Schiller-Universita?t JenaLooking for a book that lucidly sorts out XML, XSLT and XMI, GATE and UIMA,WordFreak, OpenNLP, and the Stanford NLP Toolkit?
Looking for meticulous guid-ance via batteries of stylesheets and shell scripts, but also keen on exploiting special-purpose rule languages such as JAPE, or pre-configured text analytics engines such asANNIE?
Looking for a coherent set of exercises (covering different technical angles andvarying in task complexity) and a series of illustrative screenshots that break down theunderstanding of annotation workflows into easy-to-digest atomic thematic chunks?Preferring the hands-on ?how-to?
over dry and winding theory debates and formallybasedmethodological discussions?
Interested to get in touch (again) with Shakespeare?sSonnet 130 (the text example running throughout the entire book)?
Well, GrahamWilcock?s Introduction to Linguistic Annotation and Text Analyticsmight be a perfect matchto enjoy all this.This volume, the third published lecture in Morgan & Claypool?s Synthesis Lectureson Human Language Technologies series, consists of six chapters.
The first one lays theXML-focused meta language foundations and provides additional insights into XMLparsing and validation tools, as well as format-switching XML transformation routinesusing XSL Transformations (XSLT).
Chapter 4 continues this technical thread as it elab-orates on frameworks for interchanging annotations between different formats usingXSLT, as well as the UML-based XMLMetadata Interchange (XMI) format, an emergingstandard to support the interchange of annotations produced by different tools.
In-troducing the WordFreak annotation tool, the second chapter sheds light on relevantlinguistic annotation layers ranging from formal sentence splitting and tokenizationvia part-of-speech tagging, syntactic constituency parsing, and semantic predicate?argument analysis up to discourse phenomena such as co-reference resolution.
Al-though this chapter focuses primarily on manual annotation (there is also a subsectionat the end where WordFreak is linked with OpenNLP), the following one featuresautomatic statistical annotation procedures.
Easy-to-plug-in OpenNLP is contrasted herewith stand-alone Stanford NLP tools at all major levels of the linguistic food chain,namely, sentence and token splitting, chunking and parsing, named entity recognition,and co-reference resolution.
Increasing the level of abstraction at the systems level, theauthor then advances to comparing GATE and UIMA, two alternative architectures fortext analytics.
His emphasis is on the proper configuration and task-specific customiza-tion (e.g., by introducing the JAPE rule language in GATE and the regex annotator inUIMA, both serving to improve named entity recognition).
Again, practical exercisesComputational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4are discussed in detail running through all levels of linguistic processing (integratinggazetteers/dictionaries, POS tagging, NP chunking and full parsing, named entityrecognition, co-reference resolution, etc.).
The final chapter concludes with a surveyof commercially available tools doing text analytics (e.g., alias-i?s LingPipe or IBM?sLanguageWare).
Furthermore, an advanced treatment of named entity recognition (forjob titles) and co-reference resolution is provided using the open-source frameworksof rule-based GATE and UIMA solutions (both incorporating customized dictionaries)and statistically based OpenNLP.The book assumes little prior knowledge, although regular expression, JAVA, andXML basics will certainly be helpful.
It is targeted at undergraduate level (not necessar-ily computer science) students who wish to gather experience in reusing, modifying,and customizing existing linguistic annotation tools and text analytics architectures.Throughout the book, the author directs the reader to open-source, freely available,platform-independent, and easily downloadable software resources and repositories.So students find themselves embedded in a stimulating playground where tooling isthe message.The book is comprehensively written, well-structured, and very easy to follow,in particular when students have the exercises run simultaneously on their personalmachines.
The author has a clearly designed didactical master plan in mind which isrealized by a large number of exercises with increasing, but never particularly high,complexity (see, e.g., the fourth chapter that deals with a nice set of transformationproblems involvingWordFreak?OpenNLP [XML?plain text], GATE?WordFreak [XML?XML], and WordFreak?UIMA [XML?XMI] tool [language] pairs).
These exercises arereasonably chosen and solutions are technically well prepared and exhaustively ex-plained with an admirable degree of clarity.However, the more advanced and experienced reader might find the continuouspampering by way of overly fine-grained thematic exposition and visualization a bitexcessive, perhaps even wearisome.
There is, for example, also no division into easy,medium, and hard problems to offer challenging tasks at different levels of students?understanding.
If the book is used in the context of more advanced teaching, it shouldbe complemented by much more technical standard reference textbooks providingcomplementary theoretical background information on empirical NLP, (supervised)machine learning methods for NLP, computational corpus linguistics, and so forth.
Yet,for getting used to mapping routines, workflows, and software underlying linguisticmeta data annotation, this tutorial fills certainly a gap for students who come acrossthese topics for the first time and enjoy the all-embracing tutorial approach of the author.Any real complaints?
Just a minor remark: all (URL) references are almost unread-able (Web links were not removed from the printed version of the book).There is also a dedicated Web site which contains copies of the material from thisbook.1This book review was edited by Pierre Isabelle.Udo Hahn is Professor of Computational Linguistics and Language Technology at Friedrich-Schiller-Universita?t Jena (Germany) and Head of the Jena University Language & InformationEngineering (JULIE) Lab.
He works on text analytics (semantic search technologies, informationextraction, text mining, and text summarization), with focus on biomedical language process-ing.
Hahn?s address is Computerlinguistik, Friedrich-Schiller-Universita?t Jena, D-07743 Jena,Germany; e-mail: udo.hahn@uni-jena.de; URL: http://www.julielab.de/.1 http://sites.morganclaypool.com/wilcock.766
