Commentary and DiscussionReply to Rao et al and Lee et alRichard Sproat?Center for Spoken Language Understanding1.
IntroductionIn the last issue of this journal, I presented a piece that called into question some of thetechniques reported in two papers in high-profile journals that purported to providestatistical evidence for the linguistic status of some ancient symbol systems (Sproat2010a).Not surprisingly, the authors of those two papers took issue with a number ofmy claims, and have requested the opportunity to respond.
The two responses, takentogether, are rather lengthy and as a result it is not possible, given limitations of space,for me to address each and every one of their criticisms.
I will therefore focus on what Iconsider to be the most important objections.2.
Rao et al?s ResponseThe essential claim of Rao and his colleagues (henceforth ?Rao?)
is that I have misrep-resented the claims of Rao et al (2009), and painted an incomplete picture of their work.They also take the opportunity to discuss at some length a wide range of evidence thatthey feel supports the Indus script hypothesis.I want to make two things clear at the outset.
First, my critique was about the paperthat appeared in Science in 2009.
Although I mentioned some of Rao?s later work, it wasnot a critique of that later work.
It seemed reasonable to assume that the paper in Sciencewas intended to be taken seriously and to stand on its own merits.
If so, then I felt?and still feel?that the paper had serious problems.
A problematic paper that cannotstand on its own does not become unproblematic even if subsequent research were toshow the conclusions to be correct.
To give a stark example, if someone should even-tually demonstrate rigorously that cottontop tamarins are capable of learning ?regular?grammars, that would have no bearing on the questions currently surrounding MarcHauser?s 2002 publication in Cognition (Johnson 2010).Second, it was not my purpose in my piece to use the pages of ComputationalLinguistics as a forum for promoting the non-script theory for the Indus.
Indeed I spentexactly one short paragraph on this, where I discussed our work in Farmer, Sproat, andWitzel (2004) as a way of setting the stage for the current discussion.
In contrast, Raospends a significant portion of his response discussing the Indus symbols, the case forthe script theory, and the case against the non-script theory, and repeatedly refers to our2004 paper and claimed problemswith our arguments.
The desire to keepmy discussion?
Center for Spoken Language Understanding, Oregon Health & Science University, 20000 NWWalker Rd,Beaverton, OR, 97006, USA.
E-mail: rws@xoba.com.?
2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4of the background short was what prompted me not to expand on my claim that ourarguments had ?been accepted by many archaeologists and linguists.?
Rao notes that Ido not actually cite ?who these ?many archaeologists and linguists?
are.?
Perhaps theydo not exist?
But they do: Andrew Lawler, a science reporter who in 2004 intervieweda large number of people on both sides of the debate notes that ?many others areconvinced that Farmer, Witzel, and Sproat have found a way to move away from sterilediscussions of decipherment, and they find few flaws in their arguments?
(Lawler2004, page 2029), and quotes the Sanskrit scholar George Thompson and Universityof Pennsylvania Professor Emeritus of Indian studies Frank Southworth.2.1 Misunderstandings about Nonlinguistic SymbolsA large part of the discussion in Rao?s response centers, as it should, on the questionof the ?Type 1?
(random) and ?Type 2?
(rigidly ordered) models, which I argued didnot accurately characterize any nonlinguistic symbol systems.
At the core of this debateis the Old European sign system of the Vinc?a, which is claimed to be a good instanceof Type 1, and the Mesopotamian deity symbols found on kudurru stones, which areclaimed to be good instances of Type 2.To support the claims for Vinc?a, Rao provides a quote from Winn (1990), whichnotes that the signs do not seem to have any ordering, and are ?characteristicallydisarranged.?
But if one sees the broader context of this quote, it becomes clear thatWinn is talking here about a subset of the corpus, which is found on small vesselsand spindle whorls.
He contrasts the inscriptions discussed in the quote given byRao with ?the more arranged format of tablets and seals?
(page 270), and then again(page 276) where he notes that ?
[d]ifferences in complexity of sign usage is denotedby sign ordering, which occurs on tablets and other objects, such as the plaque fromGrades?nica.?
On page 263 he refers to the ?discovery of tablets with script-like contentat Tartaria in 1961,?
a clear indicator that the Vinc?a tablets would seem to involve someform of sign ordering.
It is clear then, that Winn is not saying that the system is ingeneral unordered, only that a subset of the corpus is.
Winn also suggests that the smallvessels in particular probably had a ritualistic function (page 276).
Furthermore, thetext that was ellipted in Rao?s quote suggests that order was probably unimportant onthe spindle whorls ?since concepts or mnemonic aids could be inferred or interpretedby an individual cognizant of the culture-specific content of the signs?
(page 269),suggesting a situation where the Vinc?a ?reader?
could interpret the jumbled signs sincethey knew the structure of the system.
It is unfortunate that most of Winn?s interestingwork has been published in obscure locations, and is therefore not something theaverage reader would run across.
Fortunately though, Winn maintains a Web page athttp://www.prehistory.it/ftp/winn.htm, where one can see what the sign texts looklike and where Winn also notes (page 8) that ?the distinction between signs on potteryand the more organized signs on tablets and other artifacts may signify functionaldifferences or different levels of usage and formality.
?Winn?s description does not support the claim that Vinc?a sign texts were generallywithout structure.
But suppose, counterfactually, it did.
Would Rao et al?s ?Type 1?
bea good model of the system?
Their Type 1 data is modeled by a random process thatgenerates texts ?based on the assumption that each sign has an equal probability of fol-lowing any other?
(Rao et al 2009, Supplement, page 2), or in other words a system thatis random and equiprobable.
But where does Winn say that the system is equiprobable?The most Rao?s excerpted quote could be taken to mean is that the system is random,but Winn certainly does not say that the signs occur with equal frequency.
Amuchmore808Sproat Reply to Rao et al and Lee et alplausible model of a random ancient sign systemwould be one where the symbols havea non-equiprobable distribution: as I argued in my article ?symbols represent things,and the things they represent typically do not occur with equal probability.?
Further, weknow that many things, from nonlinguistic systems such as kudurrus (see the following)to populations of sets of species, have a Zipfian distribution, so a reasonable modelof such a system might well be one in which the unigram probability follows a Zipf-Mandelbrot distribution.
But to have presented Type 1 in this way would have beenproblematic: As I discussed in my piece, such random texts easily ?fool?
the bigramconditional entropy measure that Rao et al proposed in their Science paper.
Rao objectsto the statement in my piece that at least some of the discussion surrounding theirpaper depends on the confusion between ?random?
and ?random and equiprobable,?deeming that statement ?unwarranted and not worthy of comment.?
Yet their model ofVinc?a as a random equiprobable system depends precisely on this confusion.At the other extreme are the kudurru texts, which are claimed to be good examplesof Type 2, a rigidly ordered system.
In support, Rao quotes Slanski (2003), who says?to a certain extent, the divine symbols were deployed upon the Entitlement naru?s(kudurrus) according to the deities?
relative positions in the pantheon.
The symbolsfor the higher gods of the pantheon .
.
.
are generally found upon or toward the topand most prominent part of the monument.?
Crucial phrases here are ?to a certainextent?
and ?the symbols for the higher gods .
.
.
are generally found.?
No doubt theseare partly true; indeed it is very often true that the ?sun disk,?
?crescent moon,?
and?star?
symbols occur at the beginnings of texts?though ordering within those threevaries.
But the kudurru texts are still far from rigid, as we showed in Farmer, Sproat, andWitzel (2004) and as my own sample from Seidl shows.
Over and above this, the quotedexcerpts would only seem to support a hierarchy, not a model ?based on the assumptionthat each sign has a unique successor sign?
or even one where based on ?variations ofthis theme where each sign could be followed by, for example, 2 or 3 other signs?
(Raoet al 2009, Supplement, page 3).
All the hierarchy implies is that a symbol Y that islower on the hierarchy should come after a symbol X that is higher on the hierarchy.But for any given X there may be several symbols lower on the hierarchy, which meansthat X could be followed directly by any of these, assuming that no concepts from theintervening elements are ?mentioned?
in the ?text.
?It is puzzling to me that, given these considerations and my own description ofmy close examination of the kudurru corpus, Rao still suggests that ?we expect theentropy of the kudurru sequences to be lower than linguistic systems and perhapsslightly above the minimum entropy (Min Ent) range in Figure 1(b).?
Surely one wouldlike to examine the data and see whether such a statement is likely to be supported.In any case there seems to be little point in arguing about this.
I have the data for thekudurrus that I transcribed from Seidl and I will be happy to make them available toanyone who wants them.
As the reader will have seen in Lee et al?s reply, and as Idiscuss in Section 3, Lee et al took a different attitude to the deity symbols than Raohas.
Rather than argue from ?first principles?
about what the corpus might look like,they actually went to the trouble of replicating my experiment and developed their owncorpus from Seidl?s work (Rob Lee, personal communication): They concluded that bytheir measures kudurrus would also count as (logographic) writing (an issue I get backto subsequently)?suggesting a much less rigid ordering than Rao et al seem to believe.Rao contrasts the hierarchy that is certainly partly true of kudurru texts with thesituation in linguistic systems, which ?have no such hierarchy imposed on charactersor words.?
Interestingly, although this is generally true, there are pockets of suchhierarchies that do occur in language.
A good example is from Egyptian (Allen 2000),809Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4where there is a hierarchy that determines the order in which terms denoting humanor divine entities are written.
Thus terms for gods will occur in writing before terms forhumans or other things, even if the divine terms would be spoken after the other terms.This occurs a lot in royal names, so that for example Tutankhamen, whose name means?living image of Amen?, is written in cartouches with the god Amen?s name first.In my piece, I made the point that relevant nonlinguistic symbol systems abound,a point that Rao seems to be calling into question.
As a minor point, they object tomy use of Boy Scout merit badges and highway signs as relevant to the discussion,inviting the reader to examine these and see ?whether such a comparison bears merit.
?Unfortunately this is due to a misinterpretation of what I meant by these comparisons,and it is perfectly possible that I did not explain my point well enough.
I was notdiscussing the forms of the individual signs, but rather the fact that for merit badgesand highway signs the symbols can be combined into ?texts?
that are invariably linearlyarranged.
Boy Scout badges are worn on sashes, where they are neatly arranged in rows.Informational highway signs, such as indicators for gas stations, accommodations, andfood, frequently occur together and when they do they are arranged linearly.
Of coursethe individual signs are not linearly composed any more than the Indus symbols arelinearly composed or, in general, the basic symbols in any script.A more serious objection surrounds my claim that to have done the job properly,Rao et al (2009) would have to have compared awider set of linguistic and nonlinguisticsystems, but I also suggested this would depend upon having a good set of corpora forreal nonlinguistic systems, something which I claimed nobody has done the legworkof compiling.
Rao claims that this ignores the work of Vidale (2007), who included adescription of ten ancient South Asian nonlinguistic systems in his rebuttal to Farmer,Sproat, andWitzel (2004).
This is misleading at best.
If the reader will care to rereadwhatI said in my article, it is clear that what I meant was that electronic corpora do not existonwhich one could carry out the kinds of statistical tests that Rao and colleagueswish toperform.
I believe that remains true.
Vidale does indeed discuss ten systems, discussestheir distribution and use, and lists numbers of signs in each.
But by ?legwork,?
I wasnot referring to discussion of such systems, but rather the development of corpora of suchsystems whereby one could actually perform serious statistical analyses and compareamong a range of linguistic and nonlinguistic systems.
As far as I am aware, thereis no such set of corpora.
As Rao highlights, Vidale notes the ?systematic, large-scaleredundancy?
of symbol distributions of some of the systems he examines.
Perhaps, butas we have seen in the discussion of Vinc?a symbols and kudurrus earlier, translatingsuch broad statements into precise statistical characterizations of the kind necessary forRao?s methods is tricky at best.Rao also makes a point of noting Vidale?s observation that the number of distinctsigns in the systems he examines is 44, ?a far cry from the 400 or so signs in the Indusscript.?
To that statistic one could add kudurru symbols, which number about 60 inSeidl?s (1989) catalog.
In fact, Vidale challenges Farmer, Witzel and me to ?identifyanother South Asian system datable to the 3rd millennium B.C.
of nonlinguistic signsamounting to 400 basic signs or more?
(page 344).
Nonlinguistic systems with hundredsof symbols certainly exist: heraldry (where the sign set is open-ended; see any text onheraldry such as Slater [2002]) would be one such example, though of course that doesnot meet the time and space restrictions required by Vidale.
But then, what is the basis ofthose restrictions?
A symbol system has as many symbols as it needs.
Chinese writinghas thousands of characters because it has chosen to represent linguistic units at thelevel of the morpheme; the Greek alphabet is much smaller due to its decision to repre-sent phonemic segments.
If the Indus symbols are nonlinguistic, then the vocabulary810Sproat Reply to Rao et al and Lee et alsize of over 400 symbols would merely reflect that it represented a rich underlyingset of concepts.
Proponents of the script thesis always like to discuss the advancedstate of Indus civilization, arguing that such an advanced civilization could easily haveinvented writing, and would be hard pressed to do without it.
The Indus certainly wasone of the most advanced civilizations of the third millenium BCE: Would it thereforenot be reasonable to suppose that they could have invented a rich nonlinguistic symbolsystem, even if their less advanced neighbors could not?I end the discussion of Type 1 and Type 2 systems by noting that Rao characterizesthe objection to the use of artificial data sets as ?a red herring?
that ?does not change theresult that the Indus script is entropically similar to linguistic scripts.?
But within thefirst two paragraphs of the Science paper, Rao et al state: ?We compared the statisticalstructure of sequences of signs in the Indus script with those from a representativegroup of linguistic and nonlinguistic systems.
Twomajor types of nonlinguistic systemsare those that do not exhibit much sequential structure (type 1 systems) and those thatfollow rigid sequential order (type 2 systems).?
These (artificial) systems are clearlycentral to their argument yet, as I have argued, they are poor models of any relevantnonlinguistic system.
Objections hardly seem to constitute a red herring.Rao takes strong issue with the fact that whereas I discuss Figure 1A from theirScience paper, nowhere do I discuss their Figure 1B, nor do I do more than mention theirlater work.
On the latter point, let me reiterate: My article was about the paper thatappeared in Science, not any later work.
I was not, for example, making any claims aboutthe block entropy calculations in Rao (2010): I simply have not analyzed those.
But as Isaid, I assume that at the point the Science paper appeared, the methods proposed wereintended to be taken seriously on their own, and the evidence presented was intendedto be taken to support those methods.
It is therefore perfectly reasonable for me to havefailed to discuss later work.
What about Figure 1B?
It is true that I did not presentthis figure, which shows high entropy for DNA and proteins, includes Sanskrit amongthe linguistic examples, and shows that Fortran has a somewhat lower entropy than thenatural language samples they include.
My question about DNA and proteins wouldbe: Why are these relevant?
Although they are possibly ?the two ?most ancient?
non-linguistic systems,?
the topic of discussion surely is symbol systems that were productsof the human mind.Fortran is of course a different matter, but here the question that has always puzzledme is why Fortran was not included in Figure 1A: Why did Rao and colleagues notshow the entropy growth curve for Fortran in 1A, as Rao (2010) did and as they alsoshow in their Figure 1(b) in their response?
I suspect I know: Using their original bigramconditional entropymeasure, Figure 1A, Fortranwould have shown a growth curve thatoverlapped significantly with the linguistic systems, compromising the visual impact ofthe plot.
But I had no direct evidence for this, so rather than speculate in my piece (as Ihave here), I preferred to omit discussion.
Unlike Rao, I did not view their Figure 1B asincluding crucial data that I was somehow hiding.While we are on this topic though, the block entropy in their new Figure 1(b) stillleaves one wondering: Fortran is lower than their linguistic examples, but not muchlower.
The same is true of the Figure 1B in their Science paper.
How would one expectthe plot to look if they had included a larger range of languages and text types?
I returnto this point subsequently.In Figure 1(b) in their response, Rao includes music (a Beethoven piece), which,like DNA and protein, is very close to the maximum entropy curve.
They later criticizeme for ignoring ?the fact that the results already include nonlinguistic systems: DNAand protein sequences .
.
.
as well as man-made sequences (Fortran code and music in811Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4Figure 1[b]).?
DNA, protein, and Fortran we have just discussed.
It seems odd to accuseme of ignoring the case of music, as that data did not appear at all in the Science paper;indeed it did not appear in Rao (2010), where he first introduced the block entropycalculations.
It would have required unusual prescience on my part to discuss data that,until now, have not appeared in print.Finally, while we are on the topic of types of symbol systems, I note that Rao makesa point of enumerating the list of properties that they deem relevant for consideringthe linguistic status of the Indus symbols.
This is of course related to the issue of howto interpret the claims of their work, which we take up in Section 2.2.
Rather thanenumerate the properties they describe, I will simply present the script-like propertiesof another system, namely, the Mesopotamian deity symbols, a system we know wasnot linguistic.
I also made some of these points, but more briefly, in my piece: (1) Deitysymbols are frequently linearly written and in the cases where linearity is less clear, thesymbols are written around the top of a stone in an apparent concentric circle pattern(see examples in Seidl [1989]).
One sees such non-linear arrangements with scripts too:The Etruscan Magliano disk, and many rune stones, have text wrapped around theborder of the stone.
(2) There is clear evidence for the directionality of deity symbols: Tothe extent that ?more important?
gods were depicted first, these occur at the left/top ofthe text.
(3) Deity symbols are often ligatured together: One symbol may be joined withanother.
(4) The deity symbols obey a Zipfian distribution.
(5) Deity symbols clearlyhave language-like properties in that certain symbols display positional preference(symbols for the more important gods coming earlier in the text), and certain glyphshave an affinity for each other?for example, some glyphs such as the ?horned crown?seem to like to be joined together with the ?symbol base.?
(6) Deity symbols were usedlargely on standing stones, but were also used in other contexts such as the ?necklace?depicted in the As?s?urnas.irpal II bas relief shown in my piece.
(7) Deity symbols arepictographic, like many real scripts?Egyptian, Luwian, Mayan.
This would seem likea fairly compelling list of script-like properties: Contrary to what Rao suggests, it iscertainly possible to find very script-like nonlinguistic symbol systems.2.2 Misunderstandings about ClaimsRao, in the response to my article, as well as elsewhere, makes the point that nowheredo they claim that the conditional entropy measure(s) are sufficient by themselvesto demonstrate that the Indus symbols were linguistic.
Indeed they do not.
The lastsentence of the Science article reads: ?Given the prior evidence for syntactic structure inthe Indus script, our results increase the probability that the script represents language,complementing other arguments that have been made explicitly or implicitly in favorof the linguistic hypothesis.
?It is worth stressing at the outset that in my piece I do not claim that Rao andcolleagues make the claim that conditional entropy settles the matter?though it issurely true that this was the way many people interpreted their results.
The question is,how is one supposed to interpret their claim that their results ?increase the probabilitythat the script represents language??
I can think of three possible interpretations.
Oneis as a loose general statement to the effect that there is already lots of evidence for thescript thesis, and this additional piece of evidence adds to that body.The next two interpretations are more formal.
A second interpretation is that theyare assuming some sort of ?deductive?
model whereby for a set of features Fi, one iscomputing the probability of the linguistic hypothesis (HL), versus the nonlinguistic812Sproat Reply to Rao et al and Lee et alhypothesis (HNL), given these features.
Implicitly then, we are combining the featuresinto a classifier that computes P(HL|Fi) versus P(HNL|Fi) for each feature, and producesan overall prediction.
It is worth noting that Lee et al?s paper does indeed use thestatistical measures Lee and colleagues develop in this deductive sense.The third interpretation is the ?inductive?
one that Rao presents in his response,which he claims is the ?correct?
way to interpret their work.
In that interpretation, aset of feature values are observed, and the task is to induce which of two underlyingmodels?HL orHNL?is the one likely to have generated the observation.
The reader willsurely recognize that the second and third interpretations correspond pretty directly todiscriminative versus generative models.
Both of these approaches are used in a varietyof classification tasks, and both are perfectly legitimate ways to view the problem.The choice of the generative model as the correct interpretation of their work, andits formalization as they have given it in their response to my piece, is the first timethis particular interpretation has been explicitly stated.
At the very least, if they hadwanted people to understand this point, it would have been good to make it clear atthe outset by stating the model in the Science paper.
One can hardly fault critics formisunderstanding which of two equally viable interpretations was the one intended.But nomatter: How aremy criticisms, and those of others Rao cites, relevant to whatthey do claim, under the various interpretations?
Do my criticisms, as Rao would claim,miss the point?
Am I building strawmen and destroying them?
I do not think so.
Underthe ?deductive?
interpretation my critiques would appear to be highly relevant.
I argue,for example, that a memoryless random process with a non-equiprobable unigramdistribution is classified as ?linguistic?
by the bigram conditional entropy feature fromthe Science paper.1 This implies that there are distributions that are misclassified by thefeature.
How many such misclassified systems are there among plausible nonlinguisticsymbol systems?
We do not know, because Rao et al did not do a fair comparison of awide range of linguistic and nonlinguistic systems, and demonstrate statistically howwell the classifier works.
So we do not know whether in fact this feature ?increases theprobability?
of the Indus symbols being a linguistic script.
Needless to say, this problemwith the deductive interpretation also implies the identical problemwith the looser firstinterpretation I outlined above.For the ?inductive?
generative interpretation, the argument is a bit trickier becausewe need to consider the probability of observing a feature, given one of the two hy-potheses.
For some features, such as the feature of linear arrangements of symbols, itseems plausible that one has a higher expectation of seeing linearly arranged symbolson the hypothesis that something is a true script, compared with the hypothesis of anonlinguistic system.
For bigram conditional entropy, again we really do not know.Again, not enough examples of human-created nonlinguistic systems were presentedin the Science paper to be able to estimate the probabilities.
And there is another issue:None of Rao and colleagues?
work provides a statistical measure by which one can as-sert that something is inside the ?linguistic?
range.
Rather, they present plots and invitethe reader to eyeball them, hardly a rigorous demonstration.
As I noted herein, Fortrandoes not appear to have a conditional entropy that is much lower than the linguisticexamples.
What would one expect the ?linguistic range?
to look like if a larger numberof languages were included and, equally importantly, a variety of genres ranging from1 This was the ?simple experiment involving randomly generated texts?
that I was referring to in myarticle, a phrase I was misinterpreted to be using to characterize their work.813Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4prose, to poetry, to genealogies, to grafitti, to shopping lists?
Again, we do not know, soit is rather hard to evaluate the claim that for this feature P(Fi|HL) > P(Fi|HNL).The bottom line is that if a proposal is to be taken seriously as a formal model, itneeds to meet certain criteria.
When one proposes a new feature, one must demonstratethat this feature adds information, and increases the discriminative power of one?smodel.
I do not believe Rao et al?s paper in Science does this.
And as we have alreadynoted, given several plausible interpretations of what one is trying to demonstrate, it isusually best if one makes it clear at the outset what one means.There is more that can be said.
Aswe noted, Rao lists a number of features accordingto which the Indus symbols look linguistic.
But one can surely add to their list: Supposeone considered features like ?is only used to write very short texts?
or ?occurs in aculture where there are no archaeological markers of manuscript production?
(Farmer,Sproat, and Witzel 2004)?
Then the script thesis would not fare so well.
As for Rao?sclaim that the prior probability P(HL)?the a priori probability of the linguistic hypoth-esis being true?is ?higher than chance,?
and the archaeological support for that claim,I will have to pass over that point for lack of space.
The interested reader may look atFarmer, Sproat, and Witzel (2004), and the responses of our critics such as Vidale (2007),and decide for themselves who makes the more convincing case.2.3 Computational Linguistics, Decipherment, and the Wider WorldRao concludes by citing the impressive achievements of computational linguistics as afield, and some of the important contributions to decipherment that work in the field hasafforded.
They question my hypothesis that the editors of prominent science journalsmay not ?even know that there are people who spend their lives doing statistical andcomputational analyses of text,?
and claim that ?
[s]uch a statement fails to acknowledgeboth the impressive achievements of the field of computational linguistics in recentyears and the wide coverage of these accomplishments in the popular press.
?I am of course aware of the impressive achievements of my field, and I even alludedto them in the conclusion of my piece.
I was trying to hypothesize why, apparently,computational linguists were not asked to review the Science piece by Rao (or the Leeet al piece in Proceedings of the Royal Society).
It is entirely possible my hypothesis hereis wrong and that the editors of, say, Science are well aware of computational linguisticsas a field.
That just makes this apparent oversight all the more disturbing.I am also well aware of a whole range of work on applying computational tech-niques to ancient scripts.
My point, clearly, was not to claim that such work in generalis a ?misuse?
of the methods of computational linguistics, as Rao seems to be implyingI do.
I was rather focussing on two specific papers, the one published in Science, and theone in the Proceedings of the Royal Society, to which I now turn.3.
Lee et al?s ResponseLee et al?s response (henceforth ?Lee?)
is much shorter than Rao et al?s, and boilsdown essentially to two points.
The first point is that one can use randomizations ofa given corpus, compare the bigram conditional entropies of those randomized corporato the conditional entropies of the original, and see if the true conditional entropy isuniformly smaller than any of the values computed from randomized corpora.
For 80%of script examples, and for the Pictish symbols, Lee found that this was the case.
For setsthat were generated by random processes, the distribution of ?true?
entropy vis-a`-vis814Sproat Reply to Rao et al and Lee et alrandomized entropy was more uniform.
This method seems to make sense as a wayto spot memoryless non-equiprobable processes masquerading as structured systems,such as the example of successive tosses of seven six-sided dice I discussed in my piece.But this was not part of the methodology presented in the published paper by Lee,which as I showed is fooled by such processes.
Furthermore, it would still fail to spotnonlinguistic systems that have structure, such as Mesopotamian deity symbols.This leads directly into the second point, because Lee acknowledges my resultthat texts from kudurrus look linguistic, noting that the values that I calculate ?for thekudurrus data set places them in a similar level of communication?
to Pictish symbols.For them this is an acceptable result, and comes down to a ?difference in viewpointover terminology as to the definition of what constitutes ?writing?,?
noting that I usea ?stricter definition of writing than some other researchers, such as Powell (2009).
?They quote Powell as stating that ?writing is a system of markings with a conventionalreference that communicates information.?
There is no doubt that some students ofwriting systems have indeed adopted a broader definition of writing than that whichI assume.
But these are by no means majority views.
The problem with the broaderview expressed by the quoted sentence from Powell is that it would seem to classifyas writing any meaningful conventionalized symbol system.
Mathematical equations,dance notation, music, and (pace Lee et al) European heraldry would all count aswriting from that standpoint.
After all, all of these are systems of markings, withconventional reference, that communicate information.
It is hard to believe that Powellhimself really wants this broad a definition: The subtitle of his book is ?Theory and His-tory of the Technology of Civilization.?
Although nonlinguistic notation systems suchas mathematics have been central in the history of the world, I submit that what makeswriting work as the ?technology of civilization?
is precisely that it allows us to recordlanguage (see Sproat 2010b).
In any event if that is the breadth that Lee wants, thencertainly Pictish symbols (and Mesopotamian deity symbols) are writing, because theyare conventional systems of marks that (presumably) communicated information.
Butthe broader definition is also highly misleading.
When lay people think of writing theywill undoubtedly think of the script and standard orthography they learned in school,which allows them to write anything from letters, to shopping lists, to poetry, to journalarticles.
Calling Pictish symbols ?writing?
easily conjures up in the mind of the readerthe notion that such symbols could have been used by the Picts for writing treatises oniron smelting techniques.
No doubt Lee did not intend this interpretation, but once onecalls something ?writing?
or ?language?
this seems to be a natural consequence.
In anycase the broad definition of writing Lee wants to assume reduces the claim that Pictishsymbols encode ?language?
to near vacuity: Nobody ever doubted that the symbolsconveyed information of some kind.4.
ConclusionIt has been a useful exercise to read Rao et al?s and Lee et al?s responses, because thishas forced me to think even deeper about the issues than I had already done.
I believemy basic criticisms are still valid.I end by noting that Rao et al, in particular, might feel grateful that they were givenan opportunity to respond in this forum.
My colleagues and I were not so lucky: Whenwe wrote a letter to Science outlining our objections to the original paper, the journalrefused to publish our letter, citing ?space limitations.?
Fortunately, Computational Lin-guistics is still open for the exchange of critical discussion.815Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4ReferencesAllen, James.
2000.Middle Egyptian: AnIntroduction to the Language and Culture ofHieroglyphs.
Cambridge University Press,New York.Farmer, Steve, Richard Sproat, andMichael Witzel.
2004.
The collapse of theIndus-script thesis: The myth of a literateHarappan civilization.
Electronic Journalof Vedic Studies, 11(2):19?57.Johnson, Carolyn.
2010.
Journal editorquestions Harvard researcher?sdata.
Boston Globe, August 27.http://www.boston.com/news/local/breaking news/2010/08/journal editor.html.Lawler, Andrew.
2004.
The Indus script:Write or wrong?
Science, 306:2026?2029.Powell, Barry.
2009.Writing: Theory andHistory of the Technology of Civilization.Wiley-Blackwell, Chichester.Rao, Rajesh.
2010.
Probabilistic analysisof an ancient undeciphered script.
IEEEComputer, 43(4):76?80.Rao, Rajesh, Nisha Yadav, Mayank Vahia,Hrishikesh Joglekar, R. Adhikari,and Iravatham Mahadevan.
2009.Entropic evidence for linguisticstructure in the Indus script.
Science,324(5931):1165.Seidl, Ursula.
1989.
Die babylonischenKudurru- Reliefs.
Symbole mesopotamischerGottheiten.
Universita?tsverlag Freiburg,Freiburg.Slanski, Kathryn.
2003.
The Babylonianentitlement naru?s (kudurrus): a study intheir form and function.
American Schoolsof Oriental Research, Boston.Slater, Stephen.
2002.
The Complete Book ofHeraldry.
Lorenz Books, London.Sproat, Richard.
2010a.
Ancient symbols,computational linguistics, and thereviewing practices of the generalscience journals.
ComputationalLinguistics, 36(3):585?594.Sproat, Richard.
2010b.
Language, Technology,and Society.
Oxford University Press,Oxford.Vidale, Massimo.
2007.
The collapse meltsdown: A reply to Farmer, Sproat andWitzel.
East and West, 57:333?366.Winn, Shan.
1990.
A Neolithic sign systemin southeastern Europe.
In M. L. Fosterand L. J. Botscharow, editors, The Life ofSymbols.
Westview Press, Boulder, CO,pages 269?271.816
