Last WordsAre We Near the End of the Journal?Nat Lang?State University of Euphoria, GreeceIn a Last Words piece at the end of 2009, the editor of this journal suggested that movingComputational Linguistics to open access and electronic-only availability was just thebeginning of a sequence of changes we might see in how the journal operates.
In fact, Ithink this step was, for the Computational Linguistics journal, the beginning of the end.But this isn?t a bad thing: it?s a positive thing that CL has started down this road beforemany of its competitors.
We should be accelerating the pace towards the demise of thetraditional journal.In an age where most of us have our own Web pages, and many of us have our ownblogs, it?s possible to publish ideas without the inexcusable delays introduced by thereviewing process and the trappings of ?professional publishing.?
The journal is deadas a mode of scholarly communication because it?s a stultified and outmoded way ofdisseminating research findings.
Here are some reasons why I think this is the case.1.
Forty-page Articles Are DeadThe traditional model of journal publication in our field involves writing forty-pagearticles.
There are many fields that don?t see the need for such a long-winded approachto reporting research results.
Even our own field is somewhat ambivalent about thisway of doing things: It?s well recognized that the proceedings of the annual conferencesof the Association for Computational Linguistics are just as much part of the archivalliterature as are journals.
Many of these conference papers are heavily cited, so it?sclearly not necessary to consume 40 pages to present a research contribution thatother people can build on.
A typical 8-page conference paper is probably somethinglike 12 pages in the format adopted by this journal.
It takes less time to write, andit takes less time to read, and in a fast-paced research environment, both of these aregood things.At the ACL?s business meeting in Singapore in 2009, Ido Dagan, then ACL?s VicePresident, proposed a model whereby the papers that are currently published in theproceedings of the conference would instead be published as short journal articles.Some fears have been expressed that this might kill the long journal article: If it?spossible to get a journal publication, and thus appease institutional bean counters whocare only about journal publication, by writing a 12-page paper, why would anyonebother to write longer pieces?
So, the argument goes, a major motivation for writingjournal papers of the kind we see today will disappear, and in the absence of thatincentive, long journal articles will die out.
No great loss, I?d say.
Learning the art of?
Centre for Rational Empiricism, State University of Euphoria, Themiscyra, Greece.E-mail: natlang363@gmail.com.?
2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4saying what you want to say in fewer words is a skill that most of us (readers as well aswriters!)
would benefit from in any case.2.
Survey Articles Are DeadIt might be argued that journals are still a sensible home for longer pieces that serveas surveys or review articles.
This journal has published a few survey articles in recentyears, and there are entire journals dedicated to survey articles.
Editors know that theyare good for citations, and the more citations you get, the better your impact factor, soyou can see why journals would be keen to have them.But why would anyone want to read a survey article that?s almost guaranteed to beout-of-date the day it is published?
In almost all subfields of computational linguistics,progress is still ongoing, so static survey articles are at best snapshots of the state ofthe field at some arbitrary point in time.
Surely something dynamic, updated as a fieldprogresses, is much more appropriate for this kind of resource.
This is one of the thingsthat the Wikipedia model excels at, of course.
Ah, but of course, authors don?t get creditfor Wikipedia articles, so they don?t cater to the bean-counting incentives that driveboth authors and journal editors.
Google has made a stab at providing an alternativehere: Knol lets individual authors write attributed pieces on topics on which theyhave expertise.
So far, this hasn?t been seen as a serious alternative to more traditionalpublication models, but it?s just so much more sensible than a static survey article thatit, or something similarly dynamic, is bound to take off.3.
Journal Issues Are DeadTraditional paper journals are published as separately bound issues, typically four timesa year.
Of course, the research findings reported in the journal?s pages are not producedaccording to such a rigid schedule; authors submit papers when their written-up resultsare ready.
In the case of a quarterly journal, that means that an article which doesn?tquite make the deadline for a given issue could easily wait for a further three monthsbefore it appears in published form.
This might be justifiable in a paper-based age,where all sorts of production-oriented concerns would make it infeasible to publisheach article as soon as it is ready.
But in an electronic age, there can surely be nosuch justification.
The notion of a journal issue just doesn?t make sense when thereis no printing requirement.
Some electronic journals have seen the light here, but asurprisingly large number have not, including the one you are reading now.
Any aspectof the publishing process that delays the publication of a research result one day longerthan is necessary should be questioned.4.
Page Numbers Are DeadMost journals, and many conferences, continue to insist that we provide page numbersfor the papers we list in our reference lists.
The argument is made that this detail is animportant element in making it possible for the reader to locate the cited work.
In anage of search engines, this just isn?t very convincing.
In fact, in many cases informationabout page numbers is unavailable because the version of the paper the author hasat hand has been downloaded in a version where no page numbers are present; andthe reader may well find the same version by typing the title into a search engine in818Lang Are We Near the End of the Journal?any case.
Of course, if we really care about uniquely identifying cited works, what weshould really be doing is providing Digital Object Identifiers (DOIs) for the items in ourreference lists.
It?s particularly annoying that the present journal doesn?t insist uponthis, given that many of the references in CL articles are to papers that reside in theACL?s online Anthology, and every one of those has a DOI.But there?s another reason why page numbers are pointless.
In an age when we maybe reading on a phone, an iPad, a TV screen, or soon even on a tabletop surface or heads-up display, having fixed-format pages just doesn?t make sense.
Papers, like Web pages,should be automatically rendered optimally for the device on which they are viewed.Page numbers are just another hangover from the paper-bound 20th century.Of course, page numbers allow us to be more precise in our citations, indicatingjust where in some paper it is that the author has made the claim we want to take issuewith; but this function is just as easily achieved, and probably better served, by usingnumbered paragraphs instead.
If it?s good enough for lawyers (if anyone has a need foran effective citation mechanism, they do) and for Wittgenstein, then perhaps it shouldbe good enough for us.
Being forced to think about one?s research in paragraph-sizedcitable pieces might also improve the quality of writing.5.
Copy Editing Is DeadOlder journals incorporate a copy-editing step in their publication process, wherebya distinterested third party combs the text for spelling, grammatical, and typographicerrors, and ensures that the article is presented in a manner that is consistent with thehouse style of the journal that will host it.
Some would go so far as to say that this stepdistinguishes a professional publication from an amateur one.But some newer on-line journals, which survive on a minimal budget and volunteerlabor, don?t make use of copy editors.
And why should they?
With most journal articlesnever being cited, why waste time and money polishing text that perhaps no one willever read?
Copy editing adds a significant cost, and it also introduces an unnecessarydelay in making the material available.
A better model would be to optionally applycopy editing after publication, once the level of interest in the article in question can beassessed.*6.
Peer Reviewing Might Be Dying TooA distingushing feature of scholarly activity is the institution known as peer review.Before an author?s research findings can be published, they must be first judged appro-priate and correct by a committee of his or her peers.It?s often acknowledged that the process of peer review is far from perfect, butthe claim is made that it is better than any of the alternatives.
Is that really true?
AnApril Fool?s joke doing the rounds on the Internet in 2010 suggested that Science andNature were going to jointly publish an open-access journal.
Among various radicalcharacteristics that this new journal would possess, it was proposed that articles wouldbe reviewed by means of a voting mechanism on Facebook, thus replacing small com-mittees of potentially self-interested reviewers with a ?wisdom of the crowds?
model.Although some of the other proposed features of the mythical journal were clearly daft,* Editor?s note: This article has been copy edited.819Computational Linguistics Volume 36, Number 4it?s not so clear that this is aspect is all that silly.
After all, if we consider citation countsto be a valid means of assessing the impact or quality of a piece of work, why do weneed reviewing at all?7.
The Article as a Unit of Publication Is DeadJust as there?s no need for a journal to collect articles together to make an issue, there?sno real need for an author to collect together enough ideas to make a paper of apredefined length.
The minimal publishable unit can be as small as a paragraph if thatparagraph contains an important idea that impacts on others, so why shouldn?t it becitable regardless of the larger document context in which it appears, and why shouldn?tthe author get credit for it?The difficulty, of course, is that of assigning credit.
But that?s only because thecurrency we use at the moment doesn?t have the most appropriate denominations:The only unit we have is the article or paper.
What we need is the scholarly analogof micropayments.
This fits comfortably with the earlier suggestion that we get intothe habit of writing our papers as sequences of numbered paragraphs: This will makeit easy to cite individual paragraphs.
And if we can cite individual paragraphs, thenthere?s nothing to stop us citing comments on blog posts, for example.
Or even tweets.An otherwise flawed paper can have one or two good ideas buried among themisconceptions and confusions; surely a citation mechanism that allows us to pinpointand reward those ideas, without giving undue credibility to the shakier material thatsurrounds them, is better than the coarse-grained mechanism we use today.8.
A New Beginning for Scholarly Publishing?If we follow these lines of thought to their logical conclusions, we inevitably convergeon a mode of publication that is quite different from the one we are familiar with today,and one which is much faster and much slimmer.
The slimness comes from the potentialfor the removal of the redundancy that current practices encourage.
I am surely not theonly researcher to become impatient when reading several articles by the same author,all subtly different but clearly involving reuse of large slabs of material.
A better modelis one where any given individual?s research on a particular topic is collected together,without redundancy, in one place.
This might be a single Web page or a collection ofpages, which for the lack of a better term I?ll call a ?unipaper?.
A unipaper is somethingthat is added to and developed over time, with corrections and revisions incorporated; asingle individual might produce only one unipaper in his or her lifetime, and few wouldcreate more than two or three, each dedicated to distinct research topics.
No more tinyincrements on last year?s paper wrapped up as eight pages of text, with 50?75% beingrecycled from earlier publications: If this year?s contribution can be summed up in afew (numbered!)
paragraphs, then these individually citable elements get added to theunipaper.This model does away with much of the publication process that we see today.That?s not to say that there is no place for a future evolution of the notion of the journal.At the end of the day, a journal is just the view of a fairly random group of people(the editorial board) of what is worth reading.
Amazon has those too; they?re calledListmania lists.
That function of journals can be retained without all the other baggagethey carried in the last century and beyond; all you need is a Web page, with the DOIs820Lang Are We Near the End of the Journal?of the papers, or paragraphs within unipapers, that are worth reading.
It doesn?t evenmatter if several ?journals?
point to the same papers.So let?s abandon all the 20th-century baggage of traditional journals, and move toa more rational model for scholarly publication, with no copy editors, no reviewers, noredundancy, and no unnecessary delays.
A concrete step would be to give each ACLmember a DOI for a unipaper, and then ask them to non-redundantly populate thiswith a sequence, or a tree, of numbered paragraphs that consolidate all their work on atopic.
Then, to get things moving, the present journal could insist that some proportionof citations be to paragraphs within these unipapers, with hyperlinks embedded rightthere in the citations.
What are we waiting for?821
