Categorial Grammar: Logical Syntax, Semantics, and ProcessingGlyn V. Morrill(Universitat Polite`cnica de Catalunya)Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2011, xv+236 pp; hardbound,ISBN 978-0-19-958985-2, ?80.00, $150.00; paperbound,ISBN 978-0-19-958986-9, ?29.99, $55.00Reviewed byTimothy A. D. FowlerUniversity of TorontoThe title of this book, Categorial Grammar: Logical Syntax, Semantics, and Processing, indi-cates that this will be a book about categorial grammar.
In the preface, however, severalstrains of categorial grammar are discussed, including combinatory categorial grammar(Steedman 2000), pregroup grammar (Lambek 1999), and abstract categorial grammar(de Groote 2001), and it is clarified that the book investigates only the tradition oftype-logical grammar, or rather, those grammars based on Lambek categorial grammar(Lambek 1958).
That being said, this book contains a good introduction to type-logicalgrammar and its first part would make a good textbook in an advanced course on thetheory of type-logical grammar.
In particular, exercises are sprinkled throughout thebook that will be illuminating to the uninitiated reader.The book is neatly divided into three parts that are likely to be of varying levelsof interest depending on the specific audience.
Part I, titled ?Lambek CategorialGrammar,?
gives a concise introduction to a number of aspects of Lambek categorialgrammar, which is suitable for an audience interested in the basic intuitions andmechanics of that grammar.
Part II, titled ?Logical Categorial Grammar,?
introduces anumber of extensions of Lambek?s grammar, each of which are motivated by linguisticconsiderations.
This part is likely to be of relevance to linguists who are interestedin the descriptive capabilities of type-logical grammar, but little attention is paid tocomputational aspects in this part.
Part III is a collection of remaining topics that areloosely connected by their attention to processing.
This part is directed towards thoseinterested in psycho-linguistics and its connections to type-logical grammars.Section 1 of Part I introduces the origin of type-logical grammar, which is found inthe grammar of Ajdukiewicz (1935) and connected to Montague?s semantics (Montagueand Thomason 1974).
Section 2 introduces the syntax of Lambek categorial grammar,including the introduction of both a proof theory and a model theory.
This section thendiscusses the cut elimination proof for the Lambek calculus, the logical system behindLambek categorial grammar.
Section 3 introduces the semantics for Lambek categorialgrammar, including a discussion of the Curry?Howard isomorphism and its relevanceto Lambek categorial grammar.
Both Sections 2 and 3 include example sentences fromEnglish and analyses for those sentences that give the reader an insight into how type-logical grammar is applied to linguistic data.
Section 4, titled ?Processing,?
introducesproof nets for Lambek categorial grammar as a more natural representation of type-logical syntax and semantics.
Human performance on garden-path sentences is usedto motivate the use of both proof nets, in particular, and type-logical grammar, moregenerally.?
2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 2Part II begins with an identification of some linguistic shortcomings of Lambek?soriginal grammar and introduces a number of extensions.
In contrast to the broadintroduction to Lambek categorial grammar given in Part I, Part II delves into moreadvanced material that is less well established.
Section 5 introduces bracket operatorsfor Lambek categorial grammar, motivated by examples of medial and parasitic extrac-tion from English.
This section, like the others in Part II, is short and has room onlyfor the definitions and some linguistic examples.
Section 6 introduces discontinuityoperators, motivated by English examples of discontinuous idioms, quantification, VPellipsis, medial extraction, and pied-piping, among other constructions.
Section 7 intro-duces additive operators to Lambek categorial grammar to handle lexical ambiguity ofprepositions more elegantly.
Finally, section 8 gives a very brief introduction to modalLambek categorial grammar and its application to English modals.Part III, titled ?Further Processing Issues,?
is much more loosely connected thanthe two preceding sections.
Section 9 introduces the results of Caplan and Hildebrandt(1988) on the ability of aphasic speakers of English to understand certain sentences.The complexity of these sentences based on their analyses within Lambek categorialgrammar is then analyzed and found to correspond to the experimental results.
Theprimary purpose of this section appears to be a motivation for type-logical grammarfrom a psycho-linguistic standpoint.
Section 10 introduces methods for pre-evaluatingthe syntax of a sentence using only the lexicon.
Section 11 discusses a chart parsingalgorithm based on the proof nets of section 4.
This section lacks any analysis of run-ning time, however, which is relevant due to the NP-completeness results for Lambekcategorial grammar (Pentus 2006).
Section 12 partially addresses these concerns throughsome philosophical arguments and offers some directions for future research.The primary weakness of this book is that it remains quite firmly theoretical despitethe fact that categorial grammar, in general, does not.
Throughout the book, type-logicalgrammar is motivated via English examples and those English examples are not Englishutterances drawn from books or newspapers but rather carefully constructed examplessuch as those commonly found in mainstream linguistics research.
As a result, thearguments made often have little relevance to mainstream computational linguistics.Furthermore, the relationship between type-logical grammar and more practicallyoriented categorial grammars such as combinatory categorial grammar (Steedman2000) is completely overlooked.
The end result is that much of the content of this book,especially Parts II and III, will remain inaccessible to a large portion of computationallinguists.ReferencesAjdukiewicz, K. 1935.
Die SyntaktischeKonnexita?t.
Studia Philosophica, 1:1?27.Caplan, D. and N. Hildebrandt.
1988.
Disordersof Syntactic Comprehension.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.de Groote, P. 2001.
Towards abstract categorialgrammars.
In Proceedings of the 39th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 252?259, Toulouse.Lambek, J.
1958.
The mathematics ofsentence structure.
American MathematicalMonthly, 65(3):154?170.Lambek, J.
1999.
Type grammar revisited.In A. Lecomte, F. Lamarche, andG.
Perrier, editors, Logical Aspects ofComputational Linguistics: Selected Papersfrom the Second International Conference,LACL ?97, Lecture Notes in ArtificialIntelligence, vol.
1582.
Springer,New York, pages 1?27.Montague, R. and R. H. Thomason.
1974.Formal Philosophy: Selected Papers ofRichard Montague.
Yale University Press,New Haven, CT.Pentus, M. 2006.
Lambek calculus isNP-complete.
Theoretical ComputerScience, 357(1?3):186?201.Steedman, M. 2000.
The Syntactic Process.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.408Book ReviewsTimothy A. D. Fowler?s research is focused on the viability of Lambek categorial grammar inpractical parsing.
This has included the development of both parsing algorithms and corporafor Lambek categorial grammar.
His address is Department of Computer Science, Univer-sity of Toronto, 10 King?s College Rd., Toronto, ON, M5S 3G4, Canada; e-mail: tfowler@cs.toronto.edu.409
