Opinion Word Expansion and TargetExtraction through Double PropagationGuang Qiu?Zhejiang University, ChinaBing Liu?
?University of Illinois at ChicagoJiajun Bu?Zhejiang University, ChinaChun Chen?Zhejiang University, ChinaAnalysis of opinions, known as opinion mining or sentiment analysis, has attracted a greatdeal of attention recently due to many practical applications and challenging research problems.In this article, we study two important problems, namely, opinion lexicon expansion andopinion target extraction.
Opinion targets (targets, for short) are entities and their attributeson which opinions have been expressed.
To perform the tasks, we found that there are severalsyntactic relations that link opinion words and targets.
These relations can be identified using adependency parser and then utilized to expand the initial opinion lexicon and to extract targets.This proposed method is based on bootstrapping.
We call it double propagation as it propagatesinformation between opinion words and targets.
A key advantage of the proposed method is thatit only needs an initial opinion lexicon to start the bootstrapping process.
Thus, the method issemi-supervised due to the use of opinion word seeds.
In evaluation, we compare the proposedmethod with several state-of-the-art methods using a standard product review test collection.
Theresults show that our approach outperforms these existing methods significantly.1.
IntroductionOpinion mining (or sentiment analysis) has attracted a great deal of attention fromresearchers of natural language processing and data mining in the past few years due?
College of Computer Science, Zhejiang University, 38 Zheda Rd., Hangzhou 310027, Zhejiang, China.E-mail: qiuguang@zju.edu.cn.??
Department of Computer Science, University of Illinois, 851 South Morgan Street Chicago, IL 60607-7053.E-mail: liub@cs.uic.edu.?
College of Computer Science, Zhejiang University, 38 Zheda Rd., Hangzhou 310027, Zhejiang, China.E-mail: bjj@zju.edu.cn.?
College of Computer Science, Zhejiang University, Corresponding author, 38 Zheda Rd., Hangzhou310027, Zhejiang, China.
E-mail: chenc@zju.edu.cn.Submission received: 2 September 2009; revised submission received: 20 January 2010; accepted forpublication: 20 July 2010.?
2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 1to many challenging research problems and practical applications.
Two fundamentalproblems in opinion mining are opinion lexicon expansion and opinion target extraction(Liu 2006; Pang and Lee 2008).
An opinion lexicon is a list of opinion words suchas good, excellent, poor, and bad which are used to indicate positive or negative senti-ments.
It forms the foundation of many opinion mining tasks, for example, sentence(Yu and Hatzivassiloglou 2003; Kim and Hovy 2004) and document (Pang, Lee, andVaithyanathan 2002; Turney 2002) sentiment classification, and feature-based opinionsummarization (Hu and Liu 2004).
Although there are several opinion lexicons pub-licly available, it is hard, if not impossible, to maintain a universal opinion lexiconto cover all domains as opinion expressions vary significantly from domain to do-main.
A word can be positive in one domain but has no opinion or even negativeopinion in another domain.
Therefore, it is necessary to expand a known opinionlexicon for applications in different domains using text corpora from the correspondingdomains.Opinion targets are topics on which opinions are expressed.
They are importantbecause without knowing the targets, the opinions expressed in a sentence or docu-ment are of limited use.
For example, in the opinion sentence I am not happy with thebattery life of this phone, battery life is the target of the opinion.
If we do not know that,this opinion is of little value.
Although several researchers have studied the opinionlexicon expansion and opinion target extraction (also known as topic, feature, or aspectextraction) problems, their algorithms either need additional and external resources orimpose strong constraints and are of limited success.
Detailed discussions of existingworks will be given in Section 2.In this article, we propose a novel propagation based method to solve the opinionlexicon expansion and target extraction problems simultaneously.
Our approach differsfrom existing approaches in that it requires no additional resources except an initial seedopinion lexicon, which is readily available.
Thus, it can be seen as a semi-supervisedmethod due to the use of the seeds.
It is based on the observation that there are naturalrelations between opinion words and targets due to the fact that opinion words are usedto modify targets.
Furthermore, we find that opinion words and targets themselveshave relations in opinionated expressions too.
These relations can be identified viaa dependency parser based on the dependency grammar (Tesniere 1959), and thenexploited to perform the extraction tasks.The basic idea of our approach is to extract opinion words (or targets) itera-tively using known and extracted (in previous iterations) opinion words and targetsthrough the identification of syntactic relations.
The identification of the relations isthe key to the extractions.
As our approach propagates information back and forthbetween opinion words and targets, we call it double propagation.
Opinion wordsentiment or polarity assignment (positive, negative, or neutral) and noisy target prun-ing methods are also designed to refine the initially extracted results.
In evaluation,we compare our approach with several state-of-the-art existing approaches in opin-ion lexicon expansion (or opinion word extraction) and target (or feature/topic) ex-traction.
The results show that our approach outperforms these existing approachessignificantly.2.
Related WorkOur work is related to opinion word extraction and target (or topic) extraction inopinion mining.10Qiu et al Opinion Word Expansion and Target Extraction through Double Propagation2.1 Opinion Word ExtractionExtensive work has been done on sentiment analysis at word, expression (Breck,Choi, and Cardie 2007; Takamura, Inui, and Okumura 2007), sentence (Yu andHatzivassiloglou 2003; Kim and Hovy 2004) and document (Pang, Lee, andVaithyanathan 2002; Turney 2002) levels.
We only describe work at word level as it ismost relevant to our work.
In general, the existing work can be categorized as corpora-based (Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown 1997; Wiebe 2000; Wiebe et al 2004; Turneyand Littman 2003; Kanayama and Nasukawa 2006; Kaji and Kitsuregawa 2007) anddictionary-based (Hu and Liu 2004; Kim and Hovy 2004; Kamps et al 2004; Esuli andSebastiani 2005; Takamura, Inui, and Okumura 2005) approaches.
Our work falls intothe corpora-based category.Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown (1997) proposed the first method for determiningadjective polarities or orientations (positive, negative, and neutral).
The method pre-dicts orientations of adjectives by detecting pairs of such words conjoined by conjunc-tions such as and and or in a large document set.
The underlying intuition is that theorientations of conjoined adjectives are subject to some linguistic constraints.
For exam-ple, in the sentence This car is beautiful and spacious, if we know that beautiful is positive,we can infer that spacious is positive too.
The weakness of this method is that as it relieson the conjunction relations it is unable to extract adjectives that are not conjoined.Wiebe (2000) and Wiebe et al (2004) proposed an approach to finding subjective ad-jectives using the results of word clustering according to their distributional similarity.However, they did not tackle the prediction of sentiment polarities of the found subjec-tive adjectives.
Turney and Littman (2003) compute the point wise mutual information(PMI) of the target term with each seed positive and negative term as a measure of theirsemantic association.
Their work requires additional access to the Web (or any othercorpus similar to the Web to ensure sufficient coverage), which is time consuming.Another recent corpora-based approach is proposed by Kanayama and Nasukawa(2006).
Their work first uses clause level context coherency to find candidates, then usesa statistical estimation method to determine whether the candidates are appropriateopinion words.
Their method for finding candidates would have low recall if the occur-rences of seed words in the data are infrequent or an unknown opinion word has noknown opinion words in its context, however.
Besides, the statistical estimation can beunreliable if the corpus is small, which is a common problem for statistical approaches.We will compare our approach with this approach in our experiments.In dictionary-based approaches, Kamps et al (2004) take advantage of WordNetto construct a synonymy network by connecting pairs of synonymous words.
Thesemantic orientation of a word is decided by its shortest paths to two seed words goodand bad which are chosen as representatives of positive and negative orientations.Esuli and Sebastiani (2005) use text classification techniques to classify orientations.Their method is based on the glosses (textual definitions) in an on-line ?glossary?
ordictionary.
The work of Takamura, Inui, and Okumura (2005) also exploits the glossinformation from dictionaries.
The method constructs a lexical network by linking twowords if one appears in the gloss of the other.
The weights of links reflect if these twoconnected words are of the same orientation.
The works of Hu and Liu (2004) and Kimand Hovy (2004) are simpler as they simply used synonyms and antonyms.
However,all dictionary-based methods are unable to find domain dependent sentiment wordsbecause most entries in dictionaries are domain-independent.
For example, unpredictableis often a positive opinion word in movie reviews, as in unpredictable plot, but in carreviews unpredictable is likely to be negative, as in unpredictable steering.
Our approach11Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 1extracts opinion words using domain dependent corpora; thus we are able to finddomain-dependent opinion words.2.2 Opinion Target ExtractionOpinion target (or topic) extraction is a difficult task in opinion mining.
Several methodshave been proposed, mainly in the context of product review mining (Hu and Liu 2004;Popescu and Etzioni 2005; Kobayashi, Inui, and Matsumoto 2007; Mei et al 2007; Scaffidiet al 2007; Wong, Lam, and Wong 2008; Stoyanov and Cardie 2008).
In this miningtask, opinion targets usually refer to product features, which are defined as productcomponents or attributes, as in Liu (2006).In the work of Hu and Liu (2004), frequent nouns and noun phrases are treated asproduct feature candidates.
In our work, we also extract only noun targets.
Differentpruning methods are proposed to remove the noise.
To cover infrequent features that aremissed, they regard the nearest nouns/noun phrases of the opinion words identified byfrequent features as infrequent features.
In Popescu and Etzioni (2005), the authors in-vestigated the same problem.
Their extraction method, however, requires that the prod-uct class is known in advance.
The algorithm determines whether a noun/noun phraseis a feature by computing the PMI score between the phrase and class-specific discrimi-nators through a Web search.
Querying the Web is a problem, as discussed earlier.
Wewill compare these two representative methods with our approach in the experiments.In Scaffidi et al (2007), the authors proposed a language model approach to productfeature extraction with the assumption that product features are mentioned more oftenin a product review than they are mentioned in general English text.
However, statisticsmay not be reliable when the corpus is small, as pointed out earlier.The recent work by Kobayashi, Inui, and Matsumoto (2007) focused on theaspect-evaluation (aspect and evaluation mean the opinion target and opinion wordrespectively in our context) and aspect-of extraction problems in blogs.
Their aspect-evaluation extraction uses syntactic patterns learned via pattern mining to extract?aspect, evaluation?
pairs.
Our work differs from theirs in that we make use of syntacticrelations from dependency trees.
Additionally, we consider not only the relations ofopinion targets and opinion words, but also many other types of relations, as we willsee in Section 3.In Stoyanov and Cardie (2008), the authors treated target extraction as a topiccoreference resolution problem.
The key to their approach is to cluster opinions sharingthe same target together.
They proposed to train a classifier to judge if two opinions areon the same target, which indicates that their approach is supervised.
Our work differsfrom theirs in that our approach is semi-supervised.Other related work on target extraction mainly uses the idea of topic modeling tocapture targets in reviews (Mei et al 2007).
Topic modeling is to model the generationof a document set and mine the implied topics in the documents.
However, our experi-ments with topic modeling show that it is only able to find some general or coarsetopics in texts and represent them as clusters of words.
Their aim is thus different fromour fine-grained opinion target extraction task.3.
Relation IdentificationAs stated previously, identification of the relations between opinion words/targets andother opinion words/targets is the key to our opinion lexicon expansion and target12Qiu et al Opinion Word Expansion and Target Extraction through Double Propagationextraction methods.
In this section, we will describe the relation identification in detail.Hereafter, for convenience, we refer to the relations between opinion words and tar-gets as OT-Rel, between opinion words themselves as OO-Rel, and between targets asTT-Rel.In this work, we employ a dependency grammar to describe the relations syntacti-cally.
In the dependency grammar, a syntactic relation between two words A and B canbe described as A (or B) depends on B (or A).
We define two categories to summarize allpossible dependencies between two words in sentences.Definition 1 (Direct Dependency (DD))A direct dependency indicates that one word depends on the other word without anyadditional words in their dependency path (i.e., directly) or they both depend on a thirdword directly.Some examples are given in Figures 1 (a) and (b).
In (a), A depends on B directly andthey both depend on H directly in (b).Definition 2 (Indirect Dependency (IDD))An indirect dependency indicates that one word depends on the other word throughsome additional words (i.e., indirectly) or they both depend on a third word throughadditional words.Some examples are shown in Figures 1 (c) and (d).
In (c), A depends on B through H1;in (d), A depends on H through H1 and B depends on H through H2.
Actually, IDDsdenote all possible relations apart from DDs.Note that DDs and IDDs describe only the topology of all possible dependencies.We then impose some constraints of the Part-of-speech (POS) tags on the opinion wordsFigure 1Different dependencies between words A and B.13Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 1and targets, and also the potential syntactic relations on the dependency path.
In thiswork, we employ the Stanford POS tagging tool1 to do the POS tagging and Minipar2as the sentence parser.
We consider opinion words to be adjectives and targets to benouns/noun phrases, which has been widely adopted in previous work (Hu and Liu2004; Popescu and Etzioni 2005; Mei et al 2007).
Thus the potential POS tags for opinionwords are JJ (adjectives), JJR (comparative adjectives), and JJS (superlative adjectives),whereas those for targets are NN (singular nouns) and NNS (plural nouns).
The de-pendency relations describing relations between opinion words and targets includemod, pnmod, subj, s, obj, obj2 and desc; and the relations for opinion words and targetsthemselves contain only the conjunction relation conj.
Therefore, we formulate OT-Rel,OO-Rel, or TT-Rel as a quadruple ?
POS(wi), DT, R, POS(wj) ?, in which POS(wi) is thePOS tag of word wi, DT is the dependency type (i.e., DD or IDD), and R is the syntacticrelation.
The values of POS(wi) and R are listed as described here.4.
Opinion Lexicon Expansion and Target ExtractionWe perform the opinion lexicon expansion and target extraction tasks iteratively basedon propagation using the relations defined herein.
To bootstrap the propagation, weonly require a seed opinion lexicon.
Currently, we focus on one major type of opin-ionated content, namely, product reviews, in which targets refer to product features.Hereafter, we use target and product feature (or feature for short) interchangeably forconvenience.Our extraction approach adopts the rule-based strategy which is quite natural giventhe well-defined relations.
For example, in an opinion sentence Canon G3 takes greatpictures, the adjective great is parsed as directly depending on the noun pictures throughmod, formulated as a OT-Rel quadruple ?JJ,DD,mod,NN?.
If we know great is an opinionword and are given a rule like ?a noun on which an opinion word directly dependsthrough mod is taken as the target,?
we can easily extract pictures as the target.
Similarly,if we know pictures is a target, we could extract the adjective great as an opinion wordusing a similar rule.
Based on such observations, the idea of the whole propagationapproach is first to extract opinion words and targets using the seed opinion lexicon andthen use the newly extracted opinion words and targets for further target and opinionword extraction.
The propagation ends until no more new opinion words or targets canbe identified.
In this way, even if the seed opinion lexicon is small, targets can still beextracted with high recall (as we will see in the experiments) and at the same time theopinion lexicon is also expanded.In the following sections, we first describe the extraction rules in detail andthen demonstrate the whole propagation algorithm with a walk-through example toshow how the propagation works.
For the opinion lexicon expansion, one importantissue is to assign sentiment polarities to the newly found opinion words.
We pro-pose a novel polarity assignment method to perform this task.
In target extraction,we also propose several pruning methods to remove different types of noise intro-duced during the propagation process.
We will describe these methods in Sections 4.3and 4.4.1 http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/tagger.shtml.2 http://webdocs.cs.ualberta.ca/lindek/minipar.htm.14Qiu et al Opinion Word Expansion and Target Extraction through Double Propagation4.1 Propagation Rules Defined Based on RelationsIn our propagation, there are four subtasks: (1) extracting targets using opinion words;(2) extracting targets using the extracted targets; (3) extracting opinion words using theextracted targets; (4) extracting opinion words using both the given and the extractedopinion words.
OT-Rels are used for tasks (1) and (3), TT-Rels are used for task (2), andOO-Rels are used for task (4).
Four types of rules are defined respectively for these foursubtasks and the details are shown in Table 1.
As parsing is considerably more difficultand error prone with informal expressions used in the Web environment, we only utilizeDD dependencies in our current approach.
IDDs are more suitable for formal texts.
Notethat the rules here are all domain-independent.In the table, o (or t) stands for the output (extracted) opinion word (or target).
{O}(or {T}) is the set of known opinion words (or the set of targets) either given or extracted.H means any word.
POS(O(or T)) and O(or T)-Dep stand for the POS information anddependency relation of the word O (or T) respectively.
{JJ} and {NN} are sets of POStags of potential opinion words and targets, respectively.
As discussed previously, {JJ}contains JJ, JJR, and JJS; {NN} contains NN and NNS.
{MR} consists of dependencyTable 1Rules for target and opinion word extraction.
Column 1 is the rule ID, column 2 is the observeddependency and the constraint that it must satisfy (after s.t.
), column 3 is the output, andcolumn 4 is an example.
In each example, the underlined word is the known word and theword with double quotes is the extracted word.
We also show the corresponding instantiateddependency in the parentheses.RuleID Observations output ExamplesR11 O ?
O-Dep ?
T s.t.
O ?
{O}, O-Dep ?
{MR}, POS(T) ?
{NN}t = T The phone has a good ?screen?.
(good ?
mod ?
screen)R12 O ?
O-Dep ?
H ?
T-Dep ?
T s.t.
O ?
{O}, O/T-Dep?
{MR}, POS(T) ?
{NN}t = T ?iPod?
is the best mp3 player.
(best ?
mod ?
player ?
subj ?iPod)R21 O ?
O-Dep ?
T s.t.
T ?
{T}, O-Dep ?
{MR}, POS(O) ?
{JJ}o = O same as R11 with screen as theknown word and good as theextracted wordR22 O ?
O-Dep ?
H ?
T-Dep ?
T s.t.
T ?
{T}, O/T-Dep ?
{MR}, POS(O) ?
{JJ}o = O same as R12 with iPod as theknown word and best as theextract wordR31 Ti( j) ?
Ti( j)-Dep ?
Tj(i) s.t.
Tj(i) ?
{T},Ti( j)-Dep?
{CONJ},POS(Ti( j) ) ?
{NN}t = Ti( j) Does the player play dvd withaudio and ?video??
(video ?conj ?
audio)R32 Ti ?Ti-Dep?
H ?Tj-Dep?
Tj s.t.
Ti ?
{T},Ti-Dep==Tj-Dep,POS(Tj) ?
{NN}t = Tj Canon ?G3?
has a great lens.
(lens ?
obj ?
has ?
subj ?
G3)R41 Oi( j) ?Oi( j)-Dep?
Oj(i) s.t.
Oj(i) ?
{O},Oi( j)-Dep?
{CONJ},POS(Oi( j) ) ?
{JJ}o = Oi( j) The camera is amazing and?easy?
to use.
(easy ?
conj ?amazing)R42 Oi ?Oi-Dep?
H ?Oj-Dep?
Oj s.t.
Oi ?
{O},Oi-Dep==Oj-Dep,POS(Oj) ?
{JJ}o = Oj If you want to buy a sexy, ?cool?,accessory-available mp3 player,you can choose iPod.
(sexy ?mod ?
player ?
mod ?
cool)15Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 1relations describing relations between opinion words and targets (mod, pnmod, subj, s,obj, obj2 and desc).
{CONJ} contains conj only.
The arrows represent dependency.
Forexample, O ?
O-Dep ?
T means O depends on T through a syntactic relation O-Dep.?==?
represents the same or equivalent (Here equivalent specifically means mod is thesame as pnmod, and s or subj is the same as obj).
For example, Ti-Dep==Tj-Dep meansTi-Dep being the same as Tj-Dep or equivalent (e.g., subj and obj in R32).Specifically, we employ R1i to extract targets (t) using opinion words (O), R2i toextract opinion words (o) using targets (T), R3i to extract targets (t) using extractedtargets (Ti) and R4i to extract opinion words (o) using known opinion words (Oi).Take R11 as an example.
Given the opinion word O, the word with NN as its POS tagand satisfying the relation O-Dep is extracted as the target.
For example, we have thesentence The phone has a good screen whose corresponding dependency tree is shown inFigure 2.
If we know that good is an opinion word, and it depends on screen through modwhich is contained in {MR} and screen is tagged as NN, R11 can be applied to extractscreen as a target.4.2 The Propagation AlgorithmFigure 3 shows the detailed algorithm.
In the algorithm, the opinion word lexicon O andreview data R about a product are provided as the input.
The steps are set following thepropagation order.
It stops when no more new opinion words or targets can be added.The algorithm has been explained in the preceding text.
We will not repeat it here.
Wenow use an example to illustrate the working of the algorithm.
Assume we have thefollowing four sentences in a review: Canon G3 takes great pictures, The picture is amazing,You may have to get more storage to store high quality pictures and recorded movies, and Thesoftware is amazing.
We only have one input opinion word great.
Using lines 4 to 6 inthe algorithm, we can extract picture as a product feature (or target) based on R11.
Giventhis extracted feature, we can then determine that amazing is also an opinion word usinglines 16 to 18 based on R22, and movies also as a feature using lines 13 to 15 based onR31.
In the second iteration, as amazing is recognized as an opinion word, software canbe extracted as a feature using lines 4 to 6 based on R12.
The propagation then stopsas no more features or opinion words can be extracted.
As we can see, through thepropagation, the three product features (i.e., the targets) and new opinion words in thereview are discovered using only a single opinion word.4.3 Opinion Word Polarity AssignmentPolarities of opinion words are important for many opinion mining tasks.
Thus, thenewly extracted opinion words should be assigned with polarities.
We now proposea polarity assignment method based on the contextual evidence.
The basic intuition isFigure 2The dependency tree for the sentence The phone has a good screen.16Qiu et al Opinion Word Expansion and Target Extraction through Double PropagationFigure 3The propagation algorithm.that people often express their opinions in a consistent manner unless there are explicitcontrary words such as but and however.
In practice, the assignment is done during theopinion word extraction process.
Before we describe our method, let us make someobservations about opinion words and targets:Observation 1 (same polarity for same target in a review): A review is a documentwritten by a single reviewer.
It is usually the case that the reviewer has the same senti-ment or polarity on the same target, although the target may appear more than once inthe review.Observation 2 (same polarity for same opinion word in a domain corpus): It isusually the case that the same opinion word has the same polarity in one domaincorpus.Based on these observations, we assign polarities to both newly extracted targetsand opinion words.
The polarity of a target in a review is the identified sentimentpolarity on the target given in the review.
The following rules are exploited to inferpolarities for extracted opinion words and targets:1.
Heterogeneous rule: For opinion words extracted by known targets, and targetsextracted by known opinion words, we assign them the same polarities as the knownones.
For example, if word A is an opinion word (or target) and B is a target (or opinionword) and A is extracted through B, A will be assigned with the same polarity as B. Notethat targets themselves convey no polarities and opinion words are the only expressionsthat people use to show their attitudes towards targets.
Therefore, the polarities oftargets inherit those of associated opinion words.
We also consider whether there arenegations/contrary words associated with the opinion words (by examining each wordin the surrounding 5-word window).
(In our current work, the negation/contrary wordset consists of not, n?t, ?t, however, but, despite, though, except, although, oddly, and aside.
Wecompiled these words based on our experiences.)2.
Homogeneous rule: For opinion words extracted by known opinion words andtargets extracted by known targets, we assign them the same polarities as the known17Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 1ones unless there are contrary words between them.
For example, considering wordsA and B both targets (or opinion words) and A being extracted through B, if thereare no contrary words between A and B, A will be assigned with the same polarityas B, otherwise the opposite polarity.
We also observe that these words can cancel thepolarity change when they are used together or associated with negations.
Therefore, weconsider that the polarity changes only when there is an odd number of such contrarywords and negations between the two opinion words or targets.3.
Intra-review rule: There are new opinion words that are extracted by some targetsfrom other reviews.
These targets should convey no polarities in the current reviewbecause they do not conform to Observation 1.
Hence, no polarities will be assigned tothe opinion words.
Observation 2 cannot be applied either if these opinion words arefound only in the current review.
To assign polarities to such opinion words, we makeuse of the overall review polarity to infer.
We assume that the opinion word takes thepolarity of the review, that is, if the review is positive, the opinion word is assigned withpositive polarity, otherwise negative polarity.
The review polarity value is computedas the sum of polarity values of the contained known opinion words (+1 for positivepolarity and ?1 for negative polarity).
If the final sum is greater than 0, the review ispositive, and negative otherwise.Note that, due to the two observations, multiple polarities may be assigned to anopinion word or target.
To resolve conflict, we sum the polarity values.
A positivepolarity is +1 and a negative polarity is ?1.
If the sum is larger than 0, the final polarityis positive, otherwise negative.4.4 Opinion Target PruningDuring the propagation, noise (incorrect targets and opinion words) may be introducedbesides genuine targets and opinion words.
We now describe some methods for remov-ing noisy target words.
We do not perform pruning of extracted opinion words as ourcurrent results give balanced precision and recall, which is desirable.
We still do nothave an effective method for pruning opinion words to achieve better results.
We willstudy it in our future work.One major type of target noise is the ordinary nouns that are not targets but areextracted as targets due to parsing errors or their associations with opinion words ortargets.
Another major kind of error in product reviews is the name of other competingproducts or dealers on which the reviewers also expressed opinions.
We propose twocorresponding pruning methods to identify these two types of noise.
So far, all extractedtargets are individual words (such as weight, size).
However, because many targets arephrases (such as battery life), we need to identify them from the extracted individualwords.
A third pruning technique is to filter the remaining non-targets after the targetphrase identification.
Note that the first and third pruning techniques can be used forother kinds of opinion texts as well as product reviews.4.4.1 Pruning Based on Clauses.
We correct the first type of errors by using the followingobservation: A sentence clause usually contains only one target unless there are conjunctionssuch as ?and?
and ?or.?
For example, in the sentence I bought apex a month ago in areview for Apex DVD Player, both apex and month were extracted as potential targetsin some other sentences based on the rules.
As these two potential targets are in thesame clause (we identify the boundary of a clause using Minipar) and are not connectedby a conjunction, one of them has to be removed.
We call this method clause pruning.18Qiu et al Opinion Word Expansion and Target Extraction through Double PropagationIn this work, we filter non-targets based on frequency.
That is, the one which is lessfrequent in the data set is removed.
The reason for using the frequency-based pruningis that although reviewers usually have different things to say, when they comment onthe same product features, they tend to use similar words (Hu and Liu 2004).4.4.2 Pruning of Other Products and Dealers.
We use a heuristic method to prune suchnon-targets.
The basic idea is that when people compare the product under review withother products, there are indications such as compare to, better than; when they mentiondealers/merchants, the indications are patterns such as shop with.
We denote the in-dications for products as {ProductINDI} (currently including compare to, compare with,better than, worse than) and indications for dealers as {DealerINDI} (currently includingshop with and buy from).
In this heuristic method, we take the nearest nouns followingany indication in {ProductINDI} as product names and those behind any indication in{DealerINDI} as dealer names.
The distance is measured by the number of words inbetween.
This simple heuristic method works quite well in practice for product reviews.However, we should note that this domain-specific pruning method does not alwaysneed to be employed as it trades recall for precision, but does not improve F-score.
Ourtarget extraction method is already quite strong.
This pruning, however, does presentsome useful options in applications.4.4.3 Identifying Target Phrases and Global Pruning.
So far all the extracted targets areindividual words.
After removal of non-target individual words, we identify targetphrases.
As we consider targets to be nouns/noun phrases, we identify target phrasesby combining each target word with Q consecutive nouns right before and after thetarget word, and K adjectives before the target word.
We set Q = 2, K = 1 in ourexperiments.
After obtaining the target phrases, we conduct another frequency-basedpruning to remove targets that appear only once in the whole opinion data.
This globalpruning compensates for the clause pruning in case that a clause contains only one targetwhich is kept no matter what its frequency is.
Note that in clause pruning, it is possibleto prune some words in a target phrase (with two or more words), but they will berecovered in this step by the combination as long as one of the words in the phrase is notpruned.5.
Experiments and DiscussionsWe now present the experimental results on opinion lexicon expansion and targetextraction.
We use the customer review collection3 from Hu and Liu (2004) as the testingdata.
The collection contains five review data sets: two on two digital cameras, one on aDVD player, one on an mp3 player, and one on a cell phone.
The detailed informationof each review data set is shown in Table 2.
The targets (i.e., product features) in thesereviews are already labeled.
Although the opinion expressed on each target in eachsentence is also labeled, the polarities (or orientations) of opinion words are not labeled.In our experiments, we manually labeled the opinion words and their polarities.
Theseed opinion lexicon is also provided by Hu and Liu (2004), which contains 654 positiveand 1,098 negative opinion words.3 http://www.cs.uic.edu/liub/FBS/sentiment-analysis.html.19Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 1Table 2Detailed information of the five review data sets.Data set Number of reviews Number of sentencesD1 45 597D2 34 346D3 41 546D4 95 1,716D5 99 740Avg 62.8 7895.1 Experiments on Opinion Lexicon ExpansionFor the comparison of our approach in opinion lexicon expansion, we implemented theapproach in Kanayama and Nasukawa (2006; referred to as KN06 hereafter).
Detailsabout this approach were given in Section 2.
We only considered adjectives as thecandidates in our experiments because our method is only concerned with adjectiveopinion words.
As propagation is not performed in KN06, we also implemented a non-propagation version of our approach, in which opinion words are only extracted by theseed words and targets which are extracted by both the seeds and extracted opinionwords.
Furthermore, as our tasks can be regarded as a sequential labeling problem (tolabel if a word is an opinion word, a target, or an ordinary word), we experimented withthe conditional random fields (CRF) technique (Lafferty, McCallum, and Pereira 2001)for extraction, which is a popular information extraction method and has been success-fully used in labeling tasks such as POS tagging (Lafferty, McCallum, and Pereira 2001)and Named Entity Recognition (Finkel, Grenager, and Manning 2005).
The well-knowntoolkit CRF++4 is employed.
We consider two kinds of processing windows, one usingthe whole sentence (CRF); the other using words between any pair of adjective and noun(CRF-D).
In the first case, we designed seven labels for training, product features, non-feature nouns, opinion adjectives, non-opinion adjectives, verbs, prepositions/conjunctions, andothers.
In the second case, we took advantage of the relations on the shortest dependencypath between the two words and used them as labels.
In this way, CRF is made tocapture long range dependencies between words.
For both cases, we use the defaultparameter settings in CRF++.To train CRF for the extraction task, we use one data set for training and theremaining four sets for testing.
Consequently, we have five runs.
The average resultsare reported here.
In the set-up of our approaches and KN06, to examine the accuracy inextracting opinion words with different numbers of seeds we divide the initial opinionlexicon into 10 subsets, each with roughly the same number of words.
We call these listsof opinion words the 10p lists.
These ten 10p lists are combined to produce 20p, 50p,and 80p lists which mean 20%, 50%, and 80% of the original set (1,752 opinion words),respectively.
The experiments using four kinds of seed lists are performed separately.Note that all metrics (precision, recall, and F-score) are computed on the newlyextracted opinion words.
This is an important point because only the new extractionsare meaningful.
Using all the extracted words to compute precision and recall is not4 http://crfpp.sourceforge.net/.20Qiu et al Opinion Word Expansion and Target Extraction through Double PropagationFigure 4Precisions of CRF, CRF-D, KN06, noProp-dep, and Prop-dep.appropriate as they can include many words that are already in the seed list or thelabeled training set in the case of CRF.5.1.1 Comparison Results and Discussions.
Figures 4, 5, and 6 show the average resultsof precision, recall, and F-score of different approaches using different numbers ofseed opinion words.
CRF and CRF-D are not evaluated against the number of seedopinion words because that results in too few training data for CRF and CRF-D andconsequently poorer results.
That is also why their results stay the same for all cases.Prop-dep is our propagation approach and noProp-dep is the non-propagation versionof our technique.Observing from Figure 4, we can see that our approaches, both propagation andnon-propagation versions, outperform others in all the four cases in precision.
Thisindicates that our rules based on the dependency relations are effective in extractingcorrect opinion words.
The precision of CRF is low, which means CRF has difficulty indistinguishing ordinary adjectives from opinion ones.
The better performance of CRF-Dover CRF indicates that long-range dependency relations are helpful.
KN06 is reportedto have around 60% precision in the Japanese test data, but it does not perform as well inFigure 5Recalls of Init, CRF, CRF-D, KN06, noProp-dep, and Prop-dep.21Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 1Figure 6F-scores of CRF, CRF-D, KN06, noProp-dep, and Prop-dep.our experiments.
One reason could be that the statistical estimation of KN06 measuresa word?s positive or negative occurrences compared to its total occurrences, which canintroduce unreliability if words are infrequent when the corpus is small.
Consideringthe size of the testing data in our experiments (which is much smaller than theirs), theestimation can be quite unreliable.
Many infrequent non-opinion words are identifiedas opinion words, which lowers the precision.
In our technique, rules are applied interms of single sentences.
Thus it is not sensitive to the size of the testing data.
Anotherobservation is that in our approaches, the best performance is gained at 10p rather than80p.
This is because at 80p most of the opinion words are already known (in the seedlist) and the number of remaining ones to be extracted is small and they are usuallyharder to identify.From Figure 5, we can see that our approach makes significant improvement overothers in recall except CRF-D. Clearly, the propagation is at work.
In the 10p case,the new opinion words extracted by our approach could cover almost 75% of thewhole opinion set whereas the corresponding seed words only cover 8% of the opinionwords in the data (see the Init line).
Thus our propagation method is quite powerfulin identifying a large number of new opinion words.
We also notice that the resultsdo not change dramatically in different cases (all around 75%), which shows that thepropagation performs steadily in extracting new opinion words with a different numberof seeds (although it does introduce more noise as the number of seeds increases, asshown in Figure 4.).
CRF is found to cover only about 30% of the opinion words.Technically, CRF captures only local patterns rather than long-range patterns.
Many de-pendency relationships are long range (i.e., there are many words between the opinionword and the feature that it modifies), which explains the weak performance of CRF.CRF-D performs the best (about 78%), which confirms the usefulness of long rangepatterns.
However, considering the large size of training data for CRF-D (the trainingdata set aleady contains most of the correct opinion words) and poorer precision(Figure 4), its result is weaker than our approach.
KN06 performs poorly in findingnew opinion words, which we believe is due to its strategy in selecting candidates.
Thestrategy only considers adjectives in successive sentences and does not use features orany dependency relationships.
Such relationships clearly exist and are useful.Figure 6 shows the F-score results.
In all four cases, our propagation approach(Prop-dep) achieves the highest F-score.
We can thus draw the conclusion that our22Qiu et al Opinion Word Expansion and Target Extraction through Double PropagationFigure 7Average polarity assignment accuracy on correct new opinion words.approach is superior to the existing methods.
It indicates that rules defined based onthe relations are effective and the propagation idea is powerful.5.1.2 Results of Polarity Assignment.
Figure 7 shows the accuracy of polarity assignment ofdifferent approaches computed on the newly discovered correct opinion words by eachapproach.
From the results, we can see that noProp-dep performs the best before around65p (which means 65% of the complete opinion lexicon).
Prop-dep performs worse thanKN06 but approaches it when the number of seeds increases, and outperforms KN06from around 50p and noProp-dep from around 65p.
Considering our approach has amuch higher recall, about 20% higher at 80p (Figure 5), this result is useful.
At 10p,20p, and 50p, the recall values of our methods are even higher than KN06.
In the casesof 50p and 80p, our method becomes more accurate than KN06 (Figure 7).
We considerthose two cases to be realistic for practical applications because there are already severalexisting opinion lexicons compiled by researchers.
Thus, in practice, one does not needto start with a very small number of seeds.
Note that this does not conflict with ourearlier statement about our propagation approach?s ability in extracting a large numberof new opinion words with only a small set of seeds.5.2 Experiments on Opinion Target ExtractionFor performance evaluation on opinion target extraction, we compare our work (andalso the non-propagation version, i.e., extracting targets using only the opinion words)with those in Hu and Liu (2004, henceforth Hu) and Popescu and Etzioni (2005, hence-forth Popescu), which also considered only explicit noun targets and experimented withthe same data sets.
Details of both approaches have been described in Section 2.
Addi-tionally, we experimented with the popular topic modeling algorithm PLSA (Hofmann1999), using a public domain program,5 and CRF (CRF-D) using the toolkit CRF++.
Theparameters and training set-ups were set the same as in the opinion word extractionexperiment.
Note in this set of experiments, all our initial opinion words were used.5 http://www.kyb.mpg.de/bs/people/pgehler/code/index.html.23Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 1In PLSA, the maximum number of iterations was set to 500.
As PLSA only clusterswords of the same rough topic together but does not perform fine-grained target ex-traction directly, we computed the precision, recall, and F-score results by combiningthe top M nouns of each cluster together as the extracted targets by PLSA.
The value ofM and the number of clusters were chosen empirically.
We set M as 10, 20, and 30 andnumber of clusters as 10, 20, 30, 40, and 50.
We used the best results based on F-scoresas the final results of each data set for PLSA.
For the five data sets, the best results forthe DVD player were gained at M = 10 with the number of clusters being 30, and thosefor the remaining four data sets were all gained at M = 20 with the number of clustersbeing 10.5.2.1 Comparison Results and Discussions.
Tables 3, 4, and 5 show the precision, recall,and F-score results respectively of our propagation approach (Prop-dep), the non-propagation version (noProp-dep), Hu, Popescu, PLSA, and CRF (CRF-D).From Table 3, we can see that on average our approach has a 16% improvementin precision over Hu, 34% over PLSA, 28% over CRF, and 30% over CRF-D, and hassimilar results to Popescu.
noProp-dep performs the best, which indicates that therules are helpful in extracting targets, but the propagation introduces noise.
The resultsof Hu and Popescu are taken from their respective papers as their systems are notavailable for experimentation.
The Popescu approach is much more time consumingas it needs to complete an extensive Web search and also must know the productclass in advance.
Our proposed approach relies only on the review data itself andTable 3Precisions of our propagation approach (Prop-dep), the non-propagation version (noProp-dep),Hu, Popescu, PLSA, CRF, and CRF-D.PrecisionHu Popescu PLSA CRF CRF-D noProp-dep Prop-depD1 0.75 0.89 0.63 0.62 0.59 0.94 0.87D2 0.71 0.87 0.48 0.64 0.58 0.97 0.90D3 0.72 0.89 0.56 0.58 0.57 0.97 0.90D4 0.69 0.86 0.53 0.53 0.54 0.88 0.81D5 0.74 0.90 0.49 0.64 0.62 0.92 0.92Avg 0.72 0.88 0.54 0.60 0.58 0.94 0.88Table 4Recalls of our propagation approach (Prop-dep), the non-propagation version (noProp-dep), Hu,Popescu, PLSA, CRF, and CRF-D.RecallHu Popescu PLSA CRF CRF-D noProp-dep Prop-depD1 0.82 0.80 0.53 0.37 0.52 0.70 0.81D2 0.79 0.74 0.59 0.41 0.59 0.59 0.81D3 0.76 0.74 0.56 0.30 0.45 0.67 0.86D4 0.82 0.80 0.47 0.35 0.50 0.72 0.84D5 0.80 0.78 0.59 0.27 0.45 0.64 0.86Avg 0.80 0.78 0.55 0.34 0.50 0.66 0.8324Qiu et al Opinion Word Expansion and Target Extraction through Double PropagationTable 5F-scores of our propagation approach (Prop-dep), the non-propagation version (noProp-dep),Hu, Popescu, PLSA, CRF, and CRF-D.F-scoreHu Popescu PLSA CRF CRF-D noProp-dep Prop-depD1 0.78 0.84 0.58 0.46 0.55 0.80 0.84D2 0.75 0.80 0.53 0.50 0.58 0.73 0.85D3 0.74 0.81 0.56 0.40 0.50 0.79 0.88D4 0.75 0.83 0.49 0.42 0.52 0.79 0.82D5 0.77 0.84 0.54 0.38 0.52 0.75 0.89Avg 0.76 0.82 0.54 0.43 0.54 0.77 0.86no external information is needed.
The poor results of PLSA show that many of thetop-ranked terms in clusters are not genuine opinion targets but other words, suchas telephone, message, location, buyer for the DVD player data set.
The low precisionsof CRF and CRF-D show that CRF performs poorly in distinguishing targets andnon-targets.Table 4 shows that our approach outperforms all the other approaches in recall.We have 3% improvement over Hu, 5% over Popescu, 28% over PLSA, 49% over CRF,and 33% over CRF-D.
However, if we do not perform propagation, the recall results aremuch worse than Hu and Popescu, as shown in noProp-dep.
Therefore, propagationis necessary in extracting a large number of targets.
The reason for the improvementof our approach over Popescu is quite evident.
Although some of the product featurestend to appear with product discriminators like product has, of product, there are manyother features that do not have high co-occurrences with these discriminators.
The betterperformance of CRF-D over CRF again indicates that dependency relations are helpfulin identifying more targets.F-scores in Table 5 show that our approach outperforms Hu (by 10%), Popescu (4%),PLSA (32%), CRF (43%), and CRF-D (32%).
Paired t-tests show that all the improve-ments are statistically significant at the confidence level of 95%.
noProp-dep also hasgood F-score results (even a little better than Hu) due to its high precision.
The poorresults seen with PLSA and CRF indicate that these approaches may not be suitable forthis task.
As analyzed earlier, PLSA is known for its ability to mine rough topics in alarge text collection by clustering topic words together based on the probability distri-bution in the corpus.
It is not suitable for the fine-grained extraction task.
Therefore, alarge number of non-targets are included.
CRF and CRF-D perform poorly as explainedin the opinion word extraction task.6.
ConclusionsThis article focuses on two important tasks in opinion mining, namely, opinion lexiconexpansion and target extraction.
We propose a propagation approach to extract opinionwords and targets iteratively given only a seed opinion lexicon of small size.
The ex-traction is performed using identified relations between opinion words and targets, andalso opinion words/targets themselves.
The relations are described syntactically basedon the dependency grammar.
We also propose novel methods for new opinion wordpolarity assignment and noisy target pruning.
In the evaluation, we compared our new25Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 1approach with others on standard testing data sets.
The results show that our approachoutperforms other state-of-the-art methods in these two tasks.
In the future, we plan tofirst focus on improving the precision of opinion word extraction by working on opin-ion word pruning methods.
We will then also try to learn syntactic relations automat-ically from large corpuses using pattern mining techniques to improve the relationcoverage.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Xiaowen Ding, and Lei Zhang fromUniversity of Illinois at Chicago for helpfuldiscussions for our work; Xiyun Gan, XiaoCheng, Dazhou Wang, and Xuan Zhao fromZhejiang University for their contributions tothe annotations.
This work was supported byNational Key Technology R&D Programs2008BAH26B00 and 2007BAH11B06.ReferencesBreck, Eric, Yejin Choi, and Claire Cardie.2007.
Identifying expressions of opinionin context.
In Proceedings of IJCAI?07,pages 2683?2688.
Menlo Park, CA.Esuli, Andrea and Fabrizio Sebastiani.2005.
Determining the semanticorientation of terms through glossclassification.
In Proceedings of CIKM?05,pages 617?624.
New York, NY.Finkel, Jenny Rose, Trond Grenager,and Christopher Manning.
2005.Incorporating non-local informationinto information extraction systems bygibbs sampling.
In Proceedings of ACL?05,pages 363?370.
Stroudsburg, PA.Hatzivassiloglou, Vasileios and Kathleen R.McKeown.
1997.
Predicting the semanticorientation of adjectives.
In Proceedings ofACL?97, pages 174?181.
Stroudsburg, PA.Hofmann, Thomas.
1999.
Probabilistic latentsemantic analysis.
In Proceedings of UAI?99,pages 289?296.
San Francisco, CA.Hu, Mingqing and Bing Liu.
2004.Mining and summarizing customerreviews.
In Proceedings of SIGKDD?04,pages 168?177.Kaji, Nobuhiro and Masaru Kitsuregawa.2007.
Building lexicon for sentimentanalysis from massive collection of htmldocuments.
In Proceedings of EMNLP?07,pages 1075?1083.Kamps, Jaap, Maarten Marx, Robert J.Mokken, and Maarten de Rijke.
2004.Using Wordnet to measure semanticorientation of adjectives.
In Proceedingsof LREC?04, pages 1115?1118.Kanayama, Hiroshi and Tetsuya Nasukawa.2006.
Fully automatic lexicon expansionfor domain-oriented sentiment analysis.In Proceedings of EMNLP?06,pages 355?363.Kim, Soo-Min and Eduard Hovy.
2004.Determining the sentiment of opinions.In Proceedings of COLING?04,pages 1367?1373.Kobayashi, Nozomi, Kentaro Inui, andYuji Matsumoto.
2007.
Extractingaspect-evaluation and aspect-of relationsin opinion mining.
In Proceedings ofEMNLP?07, pages 1065?1074.Lafferty, John, Andrew McCallum, andFernando Pereira.
2001.
Conditionalrandom fields: Probabilistic modelsfor segmenting and labeling sequencedata.
In Proceedings of ICML?01,pages 282?289.Liu, Bing.
2006.
Web Data Mining: ExploringHyperlinks, Contents and Usage Data.Springer, Berlin.Mei, Qiaozhu, Xu Ling, Matthew Wondra,Hang Su, and ChengXiang Zhai.
2007.Topic sentiment mixture: Modeling facetsand opinions in weblogs.
In Proceedingsof WWW?07, pages 171?180.Pang, Bo and Lillian Lee.
2008.
OpinionMining and Sentiment Analysis.
NowPublishers Inc., Hanover, MA.Pang, Bo, Lillian Lee, and ShivakumarVaithyanathan.
2002.
Thumbs up?Sentiment classification using machinelearning techniques.
In Proceedings ofEMNLP?02, pages 79?86.Popescu, Ana-Maria and Oren Etzioni.
2005.Extracting product features and opinionsfrom reviews.
In Proceedings of EMNLP?05,pages 339?346.Scaffidi, Christopher, Kevin Bierhoff,Eric Chang, Mikhael Felker, Herman Ng,and Chun Jin.
2007.
Red opal: Product-feature scoring from reviews.
InProceedings of EC?07, pages 182?191.Stoyanov, Veselin and Claire Cardie.
2008.Topic identification for fine-grainedopinion analysis.
In Proceedings ofCOLING?08, pages 817?824.Takamura, Hiroya, Takashi Inui, andManabu Okumura.
2005.
Extractingsemantic orientations of words usingspin model.
In Proceedings of ACL?05,pages 133?140.26Qiu et al Opinion Word Expansion and Target Extraction through Double PropagationTakamura, Hiroya, Takashi Inui, andManabu Okumura.
2007.
Extractingsemantic orientations of phrases fromdictionary.
In Proceedings of NAACLHLT?07, pages 292?299.Tesniere, Lucien.
1959.
Elements deSyntaxe Structurale.
Librairie C.Klincksieck, Paris.Turney, Peter D. 2002.
Thumbs up orthumbs down?
Semantic orientationapplied to unsupervised classificationof reviews.
In Proceedings of ACL?02,pages 417?424.Turney, Peter D. and Michael L. Littman.2003.
Measuring praise and criticism:Inference of semantic orientation fromassociation.
ACM Transactions onInformation System, 21(4):315?346.Wiebe, Janyce.
2000.
Learning subjectiveadjective from corpora.
In Proceedings ofAAAI?00, pages 735?740.Wiebe, Janyce, Theresa Wilson, RebeccaBruce, Matthew Bell, and Melanie Martin.2004.
Learning subjective language.Computational Linguistics, 30(3):277?308.Wong, Tak-Lam, Wai Lam, and Tik-ShunWong.
2008.
An unsupervised frameworkfor extracting and normalizing productattributes from multiple Web sites.
InProceedings of SIGIR?08, pages 35?42.Yu, Hong and Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou.2003.
Towards answering opinionquestions: Separating facts from opinionsand identifying the polarity of opinionsentences.
In Proceedings of EMNLP?03,pages 129?136.27
