AWay with Words: Recent Advances in Lexical Theory and Analysis:A Festschrift for Patrick HanksGilles-Maurice de Schryver (editor)(Ghent University and University of the Western Cape)Kampala: Menha Publishers, 2010, vii+375 pp; ISBN 978-9970-10-101-6, e59.95Reviewed byPaul CookUniversity of TorontoIn his introduction to this collection of articles dedicated to Patrick Hanks, de Schryverpresents a quote from Atkins referring to Hanks as ?the ideal lexicographer?s lexicogra-pher.?
Indeed, Hanks has had a formidable career in lexicography, including playingan editorial role in the production of four major English dictionaries.
But Hanks?sachievements reach far beyond lexicography; in particular, Hanks has made numerouscontributions to computational linguistics.
Hanks is co-author of the tremendouslyinfluential paper ?Word association norms, mutual information, and lexicography?
(Church and Hanks 1989) and maintains close ties to our field.
Furthermore, Hankshas advanced the understanding of the relationship between words and their meaningsin text through his theory of norms and exploitations (Hanks forthcoming).The range of Hanks?s interests is reflected in the authors and topics of the articlesin this Festschrift; this review concentrates more on those articles that are likely to beof most interest to computational linguists, and does not discuss some articles thatappeal primarily to a lexicographical audience.
Following the introduction to Hanksand his career by de Schryver, the collection is split into three parts: Theoretical Aspectsand Background, Computing Lexical Relations, and Lexical Analysis and DictionaryWriting.1.
Part I: Theoretical Aspects and BackgroundPart I begins with an unfinished article by the late John Sinclair, in which he begins toput forward an argument that multi-word units of meaning should be given the samestatus in dictionaries as ordinary headwords.In Chapter 3 Wilks presents a previously published paper (Wilks 1977) in which hediscusses how large lexical entries?much larger than typical dictionary entries?couldbe used to assign interpretations to preference-violating usages.Pustejovsky and Rumshisky consider extended senses of verbs within the frame-work of the generative lexicon (Pustejovsky 2006) in Chapter 4.
They argue that someextended senses can in fact be viewed as non-metaphorical usages, and offer a furtherclassification of metaphorical usages into strong and weak metaphors depending onwhether the core meaning of the predicate is generalized.?
2011 Association for Computational Linguistics2.
Part II: Computing Lexical RelationsChurch kicks off Part II by responding to an earlier position piece by Kilgarriff (2007).Church argues that we should not abandon the use of large, but noisy and unbalanced,corpora, and discusses tasks to which such corpora are better suited than cleaner andmore balanced, but smaller, corpora.Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 2In Chapter 8 Grefenstette builds on two ideas previously seen in this collection?the use of massive amounts of data, and the importance of multiword expressions?to estimate the number of concepts.
Grefenstette uses the number of frequently occur-ring noun?noun and adjective?noun sequences on the Web to arrive at an estimate ofroughly two hundred million concepts.
He acknowledges some of the limitations of hisestimate, but nevertheless, this estimate gives insight into the potential number of en-tries in future lexical resources.Patrick Hanks has developed corpus pattern analysis, a manual technique for iden-tifying the typical patterns in which a verb is used.1 Patterns are often described interms of the classes (i.e., coarse semantic categories) of nouns occurring with a verb.
InChapter 9 Guthrie and Guthrie present an unsupervised statistical method for findingadjectives that are predictive of these noun classes, and present experimental resultsfor the task of automatically determining an ambiguous noun?s class from only itsmodifying adjective.In Chapter 10 Geyken considers the impact of corpus size on the ability ofpointwise mutual information to identify German verb-nominalization constructions.Geyken finds that when using a one-billion-word opportunistic corpus, most verb-nominalizations in a German dictionary are found to have positive pointwise mutualinformation, but that this is not the case when using a one-hundred-million wordbalanced corpus.Word Sketches (Kilgarriff and Tugwell 2002) are automatically derived statisticalsummaries of the grammatical and collocational behavior of words that have provento be a useful lexicographic tool.
In Chapter 11 Pala and Rychly?
examine some of theerrors found in a word sketch for the Czech verb vide?t (?see?
), and conclude that thequality of the word sketch is relatively low, but could be improved through, primarily,better part-of-speech tagging and lemmatization.We return to corpus pattern analysis in Chapter 12.
Cinkova?
et al conduct a study todetermine whether humans can reliably reproduce corpus pattern analysis, and furtherexamine the relationship between nouns and semantic types in the existing PatternDictionary of English Verbs.2In Chapter 13 Jezek and Frontini discuss an extension of corpus pattern analysis toproduce a pattern bank?a resource of corpus instances annotated more richly than incorpus pattern analysis that could potentially benefit many natural language processingtasks?for Italian.3.
Part III: Lexical Analysis and Dictionary WritingIn Chapter 15 Atkins presents DANTE (a new English lexical database manually con-structed by analyzing a large corpus of English) and contrasts it with FrameNet.
Atkinsdiscusses the possibility of (semi-automatically) linking the lexical units in DANTE andFrameNet.
This is an interesting research problem, and moreover, the results would bea very rich lexical resource which would have many potential applications in computa-tional linguistics.In Chapter 16 Kilgarriff and Rychly?
describe a system for semi-automatically deriv-ing a draft of a dictionary entry, in particular, determining a word?s senses.
Beginningwith an automatically produced clustering of a word?s collocates, their method uses1 http://nlp.fi.muni.cz/projects/cpa/.2 http://nlp.fi.muni.cz/projects/cpa/.404Book Reviewsan iterative process in which a lexicographer first provides sense annotations.
Theseannotations are then used as training data for a word sense disambiguation systemwhich is in turn applied to unannotated items.
The lexicographer can then providemore annotations and the process continues.
Although this could potentially be a verypowerful tool for dictionarywriting, the authors do note some problemswith this proto-type system.
For example, they find that the ?one sense per collocation?
hypothesis onwhich much of the annotation process is based does not always hold.
They also discussthe dream of a disambiguating dictionary?a dictionary that determines the sense of ausage in text, and returns the appropriate entry.Rundell concludes this collection with a discussion of elegance and its importancein dictionaries, particularly for writing definitions.
Rundell further comments on thecontinuing need for elegance in lexicography even as the space restrictions of dictio-naries are reduced due to their increasingly electronic format.4.
ConclusionOverall this Festschrift should be commended for presenting a range of research re-lated to Hanks?s career.
Those interested in Hanks?s work, or new ideas related toHanks?s work, would gain from taking a look at this collection.
Also of potentialfurther interest?especially for those interested in issues related to word senses and therelationship between words and their meanings in text?may be Hanks?s forthcomingbook detailing his theory of norms and exploitations (Hanks forthcoming).This Festschrift also succeeds in drawing attention to several interesting and opencomputational problems related to lexicography and lexical acquisition.3 Graduate stu-dents or other researchers wanting to learn more about problems in these areas maytherefore particularly enjoy this collection.
It should be mentioned, however, that thoseaccustomed to the high standards for empirical research in this journal and at ACLconferences may take issue with some technical points in some of the contributions.Nevertheless, such issues do not detract from the presentation of interesting problems,and this collection may very well stimulate more computational research related tolexicography.ReferencesChurch, Kenneth W. and Patrick Hanks.1989.
Word association norms, mutualinformation, and lexicography.In Proceedings of the 27th Annual Meetingof the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, pages 76?83, Vancouver.Hanks, Patrick.
Forthcoming.
Lexical Analysis:Norms and Exploitations.
MIT Press.Johnson, Samuel.
1755.
Preface to aDictionary of the English Language.Kilgarriff, Adam.
2007.
Googleology isbad science.
Computational Linguistics,33(1):147?151.Kilgarriff, Adam and David Tugwell.2002.
Sketching words.
In Marie-He?le`neCorre?ard, editor, Lexicography andNatural Language Processing: A Festschriftin Honour of B. T. S. Atkins.
Euralex,pages 125?137.Pustejovsky, James.
2006.
Type theory andlexical decomposition.
Journal of CognitiveScience, 7(1):39?76.Wilks, Yorick.
1977.
Knowledge structureand language boundaries.
In Proceedingsof the 5th International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, volume 1,pages 151?157, San Francisco, CA.3 Atkins concludes Chapter 15 with a quote that echoes Johnson (1755) and refers to the possibility ofautomatically mapping entries in DANTE and FrameNet: ?These are the dreams of a lexicographer,doomed at last to wake in a universe of geeks.
?405Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 2Paul Cook is a MITACS Elevate Postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Computer Science atthe University of Toronto.
His research focuses on problems related to lexical acquisition andmultiword expressions.
He is a member of the Dictionary Society of North America, and was therecipient of the 2009 Dictionary Society of North America Award for Research in Lexicography.Cook?s address is Department of Computer Science, 10 King?s College Road, Rm.
3302, Toronto,Ontario M5S 3G4, Canada; e-mail: pcook@cs.toronto.edu.406
