Close Engagements with Artificial Companions:Key Social, Psychological, Ethical, and Design IssuesYorick Wilks (editor)(University of Oxford)Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing Company (Natural Language Processingseries, edited by Ruslan Mitkov, volume 8), 2010, xxii+315 pp; hardbound,ISBN 978-90-272-4994-4, $149.00, e99.00; e-book, ISBN 978-90-272-8840-0,$149.00, e99.00Reviewed byJudith MasthoffUniversity of AberdeenThis book is an edited collection of chapters on artificial companions (ACs) resultingfrom a workshop.
It purports to discuss the philosophical and ethical issues associatedwith ACs, what ACs should be like and how to construct them, and to provide examplesof special-purpose ACs.
Table 1 shows the chapters of the book and their respectiveauthors.When I bought a vacuum-cleaning robot called Roomba, it never occurred to methat this was actually a companion, as claimed by Peltu and Wilks in this book?safterword.
Yes, it independently helps me, autonomously recharges its battery, andoccasionally talks: ?Clean brushes.?
I had higher expectations of a companion, however.Perhaps it would feel more like a companion if it expressed disgust with my mess(cf.
Bee et al), inquired knowledgeably about my holidays and family (cf.
Wilks),empathized with my feelings (cf.
Bevacqua et al), and advised scraping off spilledporridge with a spoon (cf.
Sloman).There is no consensus in this book on what an AC should be like; each chaptertends to express an alternative (often quite radically different) opinion.
In the foreword,Wilks defines ACs as ?conversationalists or confidants?
that get to know their owners,assist with Internet interactions, provide company and companionship, and build theirowner?s biography.
However, when analyzing the necessary conditions for being anAC, Pulman concludes that conversation is not needed, and Boden strongly objectsto ACs as confidants because of privacy concerns.
Rather than providing company,according to O?Hara, ACs will represent (technophobe) owners in complex dealingswith technology.
Lowe takes this one step further and questions whether ACs arereally others or whether they are cooler-headed versions of ourselves.
Whereas Romanodefines an AC as a good friend who, among other things, makes you laugh, shares youremotions, and listens, Sloman focuses on the (in his opinion) more difficult problemof creating ACs that provide help and assistance.
Turkle sees ACs as offering care aswell as being good company, teachers, and lovers (!).
Taylor et al deviate from theanthropomorphic view of ACs, and discuss a robot that has no human-like propertiesother than that it is fed on organic material.?
2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsThere is also disagreement on whether ACs have bodies.
In the foreword, Wilksstates that ACs are not robots but software agents (though later he mentions that theycould be furry handbags).
In contrast, Turkle, Bryson, and many others clearly talkabout robots.
Winfield even talks about a family of robots, rather than just one.Finally, there is disagreement on the role of emotions.
Romano believes that theability to interpret and express emotion is crucial, and some chapters are completelyComputational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 2Table 1Contents of Close Engagements with Artificial Companions.Section I.
Setting the Scene?In good company?
On the threshold of robotic Companions?
by Sherry Turkle?Introducing artificial Companions?
by Yorick WilksSection II.
Ethical and Philosophical Issues?Artificial Companions and their philosophical challenges?
by Luciano Floridi?Conditions for Companionhood?
by Stephen G. Pulman?Arius in Cyberspace: Digital Companions and the limits of the person?
by Kieron O?HaraSection III.
Social and Psychological Issues: What Should a Companion Be Like?
?Conversationalists and confidants?
by Margaret A. Boden?Robots should be slaves?
by Joanna J. Bryson?Wanting the impossible: The dilemma at the heart of intimate human?robot relationships?by Dylan Evans?Falling in love with a Companion?
by David Levy?Identifying your accompanist?
by Will Lowe?Look, emotion, language, and behavior in a believable virtual Companion?by Daniela M. Romano?New Companions?
by Alex Taylor, Anab Jain, and Laurel Swan?On being a Victorian Companion?
by Yorick WilksSection IV.
Design Issues: Building a Companion?The use of affective and attentive cues in an empathic computer-based Companion?by Nikolaus Bee, Elisabeth Andre?, Thurid Vogt, and Patrick Gebhard?GRETA: Towards an interactive conversational virtual Companion?
by Elisabetta Bevacqua,Ken Prepin, Radoslaw Niewiadomski, Etienne de Sevin, and Catherine Pelachaud?A world-hybrid approach to a conversational Companion for reminiscing about images?by Roberta Catizone, Simon F. Worgan, Yorick Wilks, Alexiei Dingli, and Weiwei Cheng?Companionship is an emotional business?
by Roddy Cowie?Artificial Companions in society: Consulting the users?
by Alan Newell?Requirements for Artificial Companions: It?s harder than you think?
by Aaron Sloman?You really need to know what your bot(s) are thinking about you?
by Alan F. T. WinfieldSection V. Special Purpose Companions?A Companion for learning in everyday life?
by Rebecca Eynon and Chris Davies?The Maryland virtual patient as a task-oriented conversational Companion?by Sergei Nirenburg?Living with robots: Ethical tradeoffs in eldercare?
by Noel Sharkey and Amanda SharkeySection VI.
Afterword?Summary and discussion of the issues?
by Malcom Peltu and Yorick Wilksdedicated to this topic (Bee et al, Bevacqua et al).
In contrast, Boden believes that ACswill not be able to show real empathy, a view also expressed by somebody interviewedby Turkle: ?How can I talk about sibling rivalry to something that never had a mother?
?Wilks prefers ACs as Victorian companions, restrained in showing emotions.
Romanoalso mentions the importance of politeness, although Wilks claims that politeness maynot be needed, that the user may have personality preferences.
In fact, Evans talks aboutACs matching their owners?
personality.
Lowe goes even further and discusses thatusers may select their own AC, matching, for example, their religion and world views.Of course, there is nothing wrong with scientists having different views on whatan AC should be.
However, for clarity, it would help to have more agreement on whatshould be covered by the term AC.
If every autonomous software programme or robot(such as my Roomba) is called an AC, then AC overlaps with well-established termssuch as intelligent agent and it is not clear what introducing AC as a concept contributes,nor what research is required to construct them.
For this reason, I would have excluded,for example, technology assistants and problem solvers (close to existing intelligent400Book Reviewsagents), patients (I do not think doctors regard their patients as companions), and teach-ers (there is a lot of work on teachers in the intelligent tutoring systems community).At the very least, a taxonomy of AC types should be established.
Sloman provides alimited starting point, distinguishing between ACs meant to entertain and ACs meantto help, with some subcategories in the latter.
Pulman?s necessary conditions (hav-ing intentions towards their owner, recognizing their owner as an individual, havingpredictable behavior, being able to predict their owner?s behavior, being independent)seem a sensible start towards a consensus definition.
These necessary conditions are stillrather vague, however.
For example, what aspects and proportion of behavior should anAC be able to predict, given that even humans have difficulty predicting exactly whattheir human partners will do and say?
Also, should ACs not be able to communicatein some form (even if not necessarily using natural language) to distinguish them fromother types of adaptive systems?
Peltu and Wilks provide another list of features inthe afterword.
While being more comprehensive, this list will also undoubtedly lead tomore disagreement.
Is it really essential that ACs are ?cheerful even when faced withdifficult problems??
I am not sure I could cope with an eternally cheerful companion.The book raises many ethical issues.
Should ACs be legally and morally responsiblefor their actions?
Should people be allowed to befriend, get emotionally attached to, orlove and marry ACs?
Is it morally allowable that people are deceived into believingthat ACs care about them if, in fact, they don?t?
Will ACs make us live beyond death(called e-mortal by Floridi)?
Will ACs be preferred to human companions, regardedas better companions and better lovers?
Turkle even muses ?what are the purposes ofliving things??
This may all sound far-fetched, but the book provides many examplesof how people are already reacting irrationally to existing very simple ACs, such asrefusing to board a plane as their Tamagotchi would die, or giving their bed to a doll soit can have a good night?s sleep.
In the foreword, Wilks writes about human?Companioninteraction, the capitalization almost implying that the AC will be more important thanthe human.
Some ACs described in this book are clearly scary, often intentionally tohighlight ethical issues.
Wilks mentions Frankenstein?s monster as the first AC.
Sharkeyand Sharkey discuss robot carers that may restrain an elderly person when they aredoing something potentially dangerous (such as taking a knife out of a drawer), and thatmay take them back inside if they were to escape.
Lowe discusses some potential ACsas ?the punitive hand of the state,?
making you behave properly.
Several ACs (such asthe Junior Companion mentioned by Wilks) sound like Big Brother watching you (howwould it make children feel if their parents knew what they were doing all the time?
).A debate on what limits there should be to AC behavior is clearly required.
This bookprovides many of the arguments for such a debate.
Again, there is no clear consensus.For example, on the one hand, Levy argues that many people will no doubt fall in lovewith ACs and that this is completely normal; on the other hand, Bryson argues that ACsshould just be ?servants you own,?
machines that you can switch off whenever you like.Overall, this book is an interesting read that raises many questions on what ACsshould be and related ethical issues.
It will generate discussion and provoke reflection.It provides insight into the kinds of ACs people are working on, and gives a hint ofthe technologies required.
It does not, however, provide an overview of the currentstate-of-the-art and what current ACs are capable or incapable of (there is somediscussion in Sloman?s chapter on research that is still needed, but more of this wouldhave been nice).
There is also not much discussion on how to construct ACs.
Thereis some advocacy of situated cognition (Taylor et al), and some of a more traditionalAI approach (Sloman).
The most comprehensive chapters are those on emotions(Bee et al, Bevacqua et al).
The book further lacks discussion on user studies with401Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 2existing ACs: There are anecdotal user quotes and a much needed chapter by Newellhighlighting the need for user involvement, but most chapters only discuss what ACsshould be like or what ACs are being built without any mention of user feedback oruser input into the design.
Also, despite being part of a Natural Language Processingseries, this book barely touches upon natural language processing.
It is more or lessrestricted to Sloman indicating that work is needed on referring expressions such as?the mug I used yesterday?
and Nirenburg showing how natural language processingis done in a Virtual Patient.
Although in most chapters ACs are depicted as havingconversations, there is hardly any mention of the natural language generation andinterpretation required to obtain this ability.
Despite these shortcomings, however,this remains an interesting book to read, discuss at lunch, and, occasionally, have alaugh about.Judith Masthoff is a Senior Lecturer in Computing Science at the University of Aberdeen (UK).Her research interests include intelligent user interfaces, persuasive technology, affective com-puting, and the evaluation of adaptive systems.
Masthoff?s address is University of Aberdeen,Department of Computing Science, Aberdeen AB24 3UE, UK; e-mail: j.masthoff@abdn.ac.uk.402
