Cross-Language Information RetrievalJian-Yun Nie(University of Montreal)San Rafael, CA: Morgan & Claypool (Synthesis Lectures on Human LanguageTechnologies, edited by Graeme Hirst, volume 8), 2010, xv+125 pp; paperbound, ISBN978-1-59829-863-5, $40.00; ebook, ISBN 978-1-59829-864-3, $30.00 or by subscriptionReviewed byMarcello FedericoFBK-irst TrentoCross-Language Information Retrieval is a compact book introducing a branch of infor-mation retrieval that has gained considerable research interest since the dawn of theWorldWideWeb in the mid 1990s.
Information retrieval is generally concerned with theproblem of finding documents within a large collection that are relevant to a given inputquery.
Whereas the original formulation of IR assumes that queries and documents arewritten in the same language, cross-language IR (CLIR) presumes instead that theyare written in two different languages.
If the collection contains documents in morelanguages, then we refer to multi-lingual IR (MLIR), which is typically solved withmultiple instances of CLIR.
Recently, other variations on the theme have been proposedthat address non-textual documents, such as image, music, and speech retrieval.
Aninteresting application of CLIR is the retrieval of images that are provided with textualdescriptions in any language.Computational linguistics could be interested in CLIR for several reasons.
CLIR ismainly about the optimal integration ofmachine translation (MT) and IR, and it presentspeculiar and difficult translation issues when short queries are involved, which is themost common case.
For such problems, interesting approaches have been developedand refined over time, which mainly build on top of core statistical MT techniques(e.g., word alignment models, translation models) and various lexical resources (e.g.,WordNet, dictionaries).In recent years, several books on IR have been published (e.g., Grossman andFrieder 2004; Manning, Raghavan, and Schu?tze 2008; Bu?ttcher, Clarke, and Cormack2010), which devoted at most a section or chapter to CLIR.
As specific books on CLIRhave been limited so far to edited collections of scientific papers (Grefenstette 1998), itwas definitely time for the first monograph on the topic.Jian-Yun Nie?s volume is structured as five chapters, which are organized asfollows: Chapter 1, ?Introduction,?
covers IR problems, approaches, and models,language problems in IR with European and East Asian languages, CLIRproblems and approaches, needs for CLIR and MLIR, and a brief historyof CLIR. Chapter 2, ?Using manually constructed translation systems and resourcesfor CLIR,?
covers an introduction to MT, basic use of MT in CLIR, anddictionary-based translation for CLIR.?
2011 Association for Computational Linguistics Chapter 3, ?Translation based on parallel and comparable corpora,?covers methods for automatic paragraph and sentence alignment, useComputational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 2of translation models for CLIR, alternative approaches using parallelcorpora, discussion of CLIR methods and resources, and mining fortranslation resources and relations. Chapter 4, ?Other methods to improve CLIR,?
covers pre- andpost-translation expansion, fuzzy matching, combination of translations,transitive translation, and integration of monolingual and translingualrelations. Chapter 5, ?A look into the future: Towards a unified view of monolingualIR and CLIR??
summarizes the state-of-the-art in CLIR and proposals forimprovements.CLIR approaches are in general presented together with their statistical models,whose understanding does not require more than elementary calculus and probabilitytheory.
However, the book does not present algorithms or data structures to implementthe models, so it might not be a sufficient resource to build an effective CLIR system.The first two chapters are rather introductory and lead to the conventional CLIRapproach, in which MT or dictionary-based translation is simply cascaded with mono-lingual IR.
A discussion on the limitations of using such general translation toolsconvinces the reader of the need for translation techniques that are more specific to andbetter integrated with IR.
In Chapters 3 and 4, the core of the book, several advancedCLIR models from the recent literature are discussed.
In particular, Chapter 3 focuseson the collection and processing of parallel texts and on statistical translation modelsfor query terms.
Chapter 4 discusses cross-lingual counterparts of well-established IRtechniques (i.e., pre- and post-translation query expansion) as well as CLIR-specificmethods to further improve retrieval performance (e.g., fuzzy matching and translationcombination).
Finally, in Chapter 5 the author, starting from a parallel between queryexpansion in IR and query translation in CLEF, proposes new directions for future work.In conclusion, the book presents a body of work in CLIRwith a uniform level of pre-sentation and a consistent notation.
It is definitely a good reference for an introductionto the field as well as for a survey of the state-of-the-art.ReferencesBu?ttcher, Stefan, Charles L.A. Clarke, andGordon V. Cormack.
2010.
InformationRetrieval: Implementing and Evaluating SearchEngines.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Grefenstette, Gregory, editor.
1998.Cross-Language Information Retrieval.Springer Verlag, Berlin.Grossman, David A. and Ophir Frieder.2004.
Information Retrieval: Algorithmsand Heuristics, second edition.
SpringerVerlag, Berlin.Manning, Christopher D., PrabhakarRaghavan, and Hinrich Schu?tze.
2008.Introduction to Information Retrieval.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.This book review was edited by Pierre Isabelle.Marcello Federico is co-director of the Human Language Technology research unit at FBK-irst,Trento (Italy).
He has contributed about 100 scientific papers in the fields of automatic speechrecognition, statistical language modeling, cross-language information retrieval, and statisticalmachine translation.
e-mail: federico@fbk.eu.412
