What Determines Inter-CoderAgreement in Manual Annotations?A Meta-Analytic InvestigationPetra Saskia Bayerl?Erasmus UniversityKarsten Ingmar Paul?
?University of Erlangen-NurembergRecent discussions of annotator agreement have mostly centered around its calculation and inter-pretation, and the correct choice of indices.
Although these discussions are important, they onlyconsider the ?back-end?
of the story, namely, what to do once the data are collected.
Just as impor-tant in our opinion is to know how agreement is reached in the first place and what factors influ-ence coder agreement as part of the annotation process or setting, as this knowledge can provideconcrete guidelines for the planning and set-up of annotation projects.
To investigate whetherthere are factors that consistently impact annotator agreement we conducted a meta-analyticinvestigation of annotation studies reporting agreement percentages.
Our meta-analysis synthe-sized factors reported in 96 annotation studies from three domains (word-sense disambiguation,prosodic transcriptions, and phonetic transcriptions) and was based on a total of 346 agreementindices.
Our analysis identified seven factors that influence reported agreement values: annota-tion domain, number of categories in a coding scheme, number of annotators in a project, whetherannotators received training, the intensity of annotator training, the annotation purpose, andthe method used for the calculation of percentage agreements.
Based on our results we developpractical recommendations for the assessment, interpretation, calculation, and reporting of coderagreement.
We also briefly discuss theoretical implications for the concept of annotation quality.1.
IntroductionRecent years have seen a growing emphasis in the field of computational linguistics toprovide empirical evidence that manual annotations satisfy at least minimal standardsof data quality.
This trend is indicated by a rising number of publications on method-ological and statistical issues of how to measure and interpret inter-annotator agreement(Carletta 1996; DiEugenio and Glass 2004; Passoneau 2004; Versley 2006; Artstein andPoesio 2008) as well as a rising number of reports on annotation quality and schema?
Rotterdam School of Management, Burgemeester Oudlaan 50, 3062 PA Rotterdam, The Netherlands.E-mail: pbayerl@rsm.nl.??
Chair of Psychology, Lange Gasse 20, 90403 Nuremberg, Germany.E-mail: paul.karsten@wiso.uni-erlangen.de.Submission received: 5 January 2010; revised submission received: 15 February 2011; accepted for publication:17 April 2011.?
2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4validity (Teufel, Carletta, and Moens 1999; Calhoune et al 2005; Gruenstein, Niekransz,and Purver 2005; Purver, Ehlers, and Niekrasz 2006).The main reason for the analysis of annotation quality is to obtain a measure of the?trustworthiness?
of annotations (Artstein and Poesio 2008).
Only if we can trust thatannotations are provided in a consistent and reproducible manner, can we be sure thatconclusions drawn from such data are likewise reliable and that the subsequent usageof annotations is not negatively influenced by inconsistencies and errors in the data.Inter-annotator (or inter-coder) agreement has become the quasi-standard procedurefor testing the accuracy of manual annotations.
This process is based on the assumptionthat if multiple coders agree in their coding decisions of the same material we can becertain that?at least for this set of data and this set of coders?annotations are free ofunsystematic and distorting variations.Our degree of certainty depends on the ability of annotators to reach sufficientagreement in their coding decisions.
Perfect agreement among coders is very rare.Slips of attention can lead to errors in the annotations of individual annotators, as canmisinterpretations of coding instructions, personal biases, or genuinely disparate inter-pretations of material (Krishnamurthy and Nicholls 2000; Beigman Klebanov, Beigman,and Diermeier 2008).
A common rule of thumb requires that annotators should agreein at least 80% of all cases or?if using a chance-corrected measure such as kappa?reach values of at least 0.67 (Carletta 1996; DiEugenio and Glass 2004).
Some recentdiscussions demand even higher agreement values from 0.80 up to 0.90 (Neuendorf2002; Artstein and Poesio 2008).Experience has shown that such values are often hard to achieve, even when thecoding task appears to be easy.
To name only two examples: For the ib2b smokingchallenge, agreement between medical experts on the smoking status of patients onlyreached 60% (Uzuner, Szolovits, and Kohane 2006).
In a recent review of the word-sensedisambiguation domain, Navigli (2009) reported upper boundaries for coder agreementof 90% for coarse-grained/binary sense inventories, but only 67?80% for fine-grainedinventories.
Comparing annotations of the same data by independent coder groups caneven yield agreement rates as low as 22% (Andreevskala and Bergler 2006; Grefenstetteet al 2006).
Disagreements in human annotators are thus a common occurrence, andcomputational linguists expend considerable efforts to improve agreement rates amongcoders.The question is whether processes that lead to disagreement among coders areunsystematic, or whether there are conditions and settings that impact annotator agree-ment in a predictable way.
Computational linguists have started to tackle this question(Oppermann, Burger, and Weilhammer 2000; Syrdal et al 2001; Pitt et al 2005).
Possibleinfluences on annotation decisions identified in past studies are the complexity ofannotation schemes (Popescu-Belis 2008), the degree of annotators?
expertise (Lewis,Watterson, and Houghton 2003), the difficulty of the material (Wiebe, Wilson, andCardie 2005; Beigman Klebanov and Beigman 2009), or the usage properties of indi-vidual words (Passonneau, Salleb-Aouissi, and Ide 2009).
These findings point to acombination of annotator characteristics, such as level of expertise, and external factors,such as characteristics of the material or annotation scheme.Of course, high levels of annotator agreement is not a goal in itself.
Yet, as an indi-cator for the trustworthiness of manual annotations we must aim to create conditionsunder which annotator groups can achieve their optimal results.
Knowing the factorsthat systematically impact annotator agreement gives us a tool to proactively designsituations that eliminate or reduce influences that affect comparability in a negativeway?or if elimination is impossible, it at least makes us more aware of possible700Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?problems and potential reasons for lower agreement rates.
In the same regard, knowingwhich annotator characteristics are conducive to consistent and reliable work enablesus to select annotators that meet these criteria.Unfortunately, despite a wealth of annotation studies and practical experiences,we still lack a clear picture on what influences inter-annotator agreement.
Althoughindividual studies have found potential factors, it is unclear whether these findings areapplicable only to the specific project or task in which they were observed, or whetherthey represent systematic influences on annotator agreement over a wide range of (oreven all) situations.
The main question guiding our study in this article was thereforewhether we are able to identify factors that impact coder agreement in systematic waysacross multiple studies and multiple domains.Trying to propose a general framework of factors influencing annotator agreementis challenging, as manual annotations are required in a vast range of tasks from POS-tagging to prosodic transcriptions, word-sense disambiguation, the classification of textgenres, or the identification of gestures or emotions.
Moreover, each annotation projecthas its specific, idiosyncratic features.
If factors such as annotator expertise or schemegranularity are important influences in one specific project, how can we be sure that thisis also the case in other projects or other areas?The best approach to answer this question is to review and synthesize informa-tion from a wide variety of studies in the same field.
In this article we used a meta-analytic approach to synthesize existing information on inter-annotator agreement.Meta-analysis is a statistical method that combines and compares results of independentstudies to obtain an overview of the respective research field.
It is further used toidentify factors with a (statistically) significant impact on the outcomes of individualstudies (Cooper and Hedges 1994b; Lipsey and Wilson 2001).Our investigation followed two aims: (1) to test whether there are factors thatconsistently influence annotator agreement, while abstracting from the specifics of indi-vidual annotation projects and settings; and (2) to get a first indication of how far theseinfluencing factors are generalizable across different annotation domains.
This secondaspect is of considerable practical importance.
If influencing factors are comparableacross domains, findings from one area can be applied to other areas.
If not, each domainhas to consider factors that impact coder agreement individually.This study contributes to the existing literature in that it approaches the questionof inter-annotator agreement at the stage when decisions about procedures and settingscan still influence the end results.
It thus adds to earlier discussions by emphasizingthe importance of the earliest stages in the annotation process before and when annota-tions are made.
It does so by taking an objective, statistical approach to reanalyze andsynthesize findings of existing empirical studies.In the next section, we give a short introduction to the meta-analytic method anddescribe the specific procedure followed in the present study.
This is followed by thepresentation of our findings and a discussion of the practical implications for annotationprojects.
Based on our results, we formulate recommendations for the planning, execu-tion, and reporting of annotations.
Further, we briefly outline the broader theoreticalimplications and open questions for the concept of manual annotation quality.2.
MethodThe approach chosen in our study was the meta-analysis of existing annotation studies.Meta-analysis is a method that allows us to statistically integrate results of disparateempirical studies.
It was developed in the last quarter of the 20th century as an answer701Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4to the problems that characterize traditional narrative reviews (Cooper and Hedges1994a).
The traditional method has long been criticized for being ?unsystematic, hap-hazard, and impos[ing] an impossible information-processing burden on the reviewer?
(Hunter and Schmidt 1990, p. 488).
As a result, authors of traditional reviews typicallyfall back on personal strategies with the consequence that different reviewers oftencome to very different conclusions, even if they analyze the same set of studies (VanDen Noortgate and Onghena 2005).To prevent such personal biases, meta-analyses use a statistical approach to synthe-size research results.
Meta-analyses are ?quantitative summaries of research domainsthat describe the typical strength of the effect or phenomenon, its variability, its statisti-cal significance, and the nature of the moderator variables from which one can predictthe relative strength of the effect or phenomenon?
(Rosenthal 1995, p. 183).
Since theterm ?meta-analysis?
was coined (Glass 1976) and the first studies were published inthe fields of education and psychology (Smith and Glass 1977; Glass and Smith 1979),such quantitative syntheses have seen a strong rise in popularity in the psychological,educational, and medical sciences.
Other areas are following suit, leading to what hasbeen called a ?meta-analytic revolution?
(Fiske 1983).A meta-analysis consists of six basic stages: (1) formulation of the research ques-tions or hypotheses and definition of criteria for the selection of primary studies, (2)comprehensive search for studies on the topic of interest that fit the selection criteria, (3)extraction and coding of relevant data, (4) conversion of study results to an index thatmakes results comparable across studies (the so-called effect size such as correlations,standardized mean differences, or proportions), (5) combination and/or comparisonof results across studies including the investigation of possible moderator variables(i. e., variables that change the strength of an effect or relationship between two vari-ables by either increasing/decreasing its strength or changing its direction), and (6)interpretation and reporting of results.
The fifth stage constitutes the ?essence of themeta-analysis?
(Van Den Noortgate and Onghena 2005, p. 3), in which the results of theprimary studies are analyzed statistically.
Although all meta-analyses follow the samebasic procedure, decisions on each of these steps need to be tailored to the question anddata at hand.
In the following we detail the procedure followed in our study.12.1 Identification and Selection of Studies and DomainsOur main research question was very broad, and we therefore started our search forprimary studies with few restrictions.
The search for relevant studies used three mainapproaches.
First, electronic searches in computerized databases (MLA, CiteSeer) wereconducted using variations and combinations of the keywords manual (annotation),human (coders), agreement, reliability, ITA, inter-coder, inter-annotator, and inter-tagger.Additional Internet-based searches in Google using the same keywords were conductedto find documents published in proceedings and as internal papers, working notes, ortheses.
Further, on-line reference lists of projects and authors concerned with manualannotations were searched.
Additional publications were identified through the back-tracing of references in key articles.
In a few cases authors were contacted for papersunavailable through the Internet or libraries.
The use of a broad range of search methodsand the inclusion of unpublished studies strengthens the representativeness of the1 For reasons of space, we cannot provide an extensive introduction to the meta-analytic method.
There areseveral highly accessible textbooks, however, that can give the interested reader further information; forinstance, Cooper and Hedges (1994b), Hedges and Olkin (1985), or Lipsey and Wilson (2001).702Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?meta-analytic data set for the respective research field and reduces the probability thatthe meta-analytic results are affected by publication or availability biases (Begg 1994).All studies found in this first step were checked for relevance and included, if theyadhered to the following three selection criteria: The study reported a case of linguistic annotation done by human coders. The study reported an agreement index or the agreement could becalculated with the information provided in the text. The study reported the amount of annotated material (e.g., number ofwords, syllables, or phrases).In some cases authors published the same data and (parts of the) results in twoor three different papers.
In this case only the most informative source was includedin the analysis.
In case of overlaps between papers only the results that had not beenreported in a study already entered in the analysis were included.
In total we reviewed587 publications that reported instances of linguistic annotations.
Of these, 326 studiescomplied with our inclusion criteria representing a total of 972 agreement indices.Percentages were the most frequent inter-annotator agreement index (56.1% of reportedindices), followed by kappa (39.3%) and other measures (4.6%).The 326 studies stemmed from a wide range of domains such as part-of-speechtagging, orthographic transcriptions, marking of gestures, co-references, or rhetoricalstructure.
One of our objectives in this study was to investigate whether annotationdomains differ in the overall level of annotator agreement or the type of factors thatinfluence agreement.
To guarantee that results are stable and generalizable, a domainmust be represented by a sufficient number of primary studies.
If factors or categorieswithin factors are only represented by very few studies, statements about the effect ofthese factors are hard to generalize to the wider domain.Our data contained three domains with enough data to warrant comparative analy-ses: word-sense disambiguation (167 reported indices from 43 studies), prosodic tran-scriptions (184 indices from 39 studies), and phonetic transcriptions (95 indices from24 studies).
The majority of the indices reported in these domains were percentages(85.9%), followed by kappa (12.9%), and F-measures and alpha measures (together1.2%).
A breakdown of indices per domain is shown in Table 1.Due to the low number of reports on kappa, we refrained from conducting a meta-analysis also for kappa indices, and restricted our analysis to agreement percentages,which still seems to be one of the most important indicators for annotator agreement.A further reason for our decision to exclude kappa was based on methodologicalgrounds.
The calculation of standard errors for kappas, as important information forthe meta-analytic procedure, relies on the knowledge of the marginal distribution theindex was derived from.
This information is generally not provided in publications.
Apossible way to circumvent this problem is to use general assumptions and estimatesfor standard errors.
This, however, can threaten the validity of the meta-analytic results.Restricting our study to percentages, our analysis was thus based on a total of 346 datapoints from 96 primary studies.2.2 Information Extracted from the Primary StudiesAs our main aim was to identify potential influencing factors on agreement betweenmultiple annotators, we did not make a pre-selection for the type of information to be703Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4Table 1Number of included studies and indices in the three domains.Word-sense Prosodic Phoneticdisambiguation transcriptions transcriptionDistribution of indices across studiesTotal number of studies meeting criteria 43 39 24Studies reporting only percentages 27 24 21Studies reporting only kappa indices?
3 2 2Studies reporting percentages and kappa 13 10 1Studies reporting other measures?
0 3 0Number and type of agreement indicesTotal number of reported indices 167 184 95Percentages 124 (74.3%) 140 (76.1%) 82 (86.3%)Kappa indices?
43 (25.7%) 39 (21.2%) 13 (13.7%)Others?
0 5 (2.7%) 0?This category does not differentiate between disparate versions of the kappa index.?
Other measurescomprise Krippendorff?s alpha (1 study, 2 indices), Cronbach?s alpha (1 study, 2 indices) and F-measure(1 study, 1 index).included in the analysis.
Instead we extracted all information provided in the primarystudies related to the annotation task and setting; for example, reported length ofannotator training in hours or days, whether annotators had prior experience with an-notations, their educational background, or the overall reason for calculating inter-annotator agreement.
Our investigation thus followed an exploratory approach aimingat the identification of new aspects rather than the confirmation of a priori assumptions(Greene, Caracelli, and Graham 1989).
From this first comprehensive overview, eightaspects emerged, for which information was provided in all or at least the majority ofstudies.
These aspects fell into five general categories providing information on charac-teristics of the annotation process and setting, the annotators, the annotated material,the annotation scheme, and the agreement index:1.
Characteristics of the annotation process/setting: Information on theannotation domain, number of annotators, the training of annotators,and the purpose for measuring agreement2.
Characteristics of the annotators: Level of annotators?
domain experience3.
Characteristics of the annotated material: Language of the material4.
Characteristics of the annotation scheme: Number of categories in the scheme5.
Characteristics of the agreement index: Method used to calculate percentageagreementThe eight aspects included in our analysis are only a subset of factors that mightbe expected to influence annotator agreement.
They were the only factors for whichwe found sufficient information to make a statistical analysis feasible, however.
Oneof the main challenges confronting our analysis was therefore the lack of consistencyof information in the primary studies.
At this stage, our review thus already led totwo preliminary observations: firstly, a general scarcity of information in most reports704Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?about the way annotations were carried out, and secondly, a lack of agreement onwhat should be reported and in what way.
Both points are problematic not only fora statistical review such as that conducted in this article, but also for a fair appreciationof agreement figures in reports, as will be discussed subsequently.
As a consequence ofthese observations and based on the results of our meta-analysis, we developed whatwe consider a minimal set of information that should be reported (see Section 5.2).2.3 Coding of InformationTo be able to compare studies with respect to the characteristics listed in the previoussection, we coded each study according to a standard set of categories.
For each studywe first noted the domain it belonged to (word-sense disambiguation, prosodic tran-scription, or phonetic transcription).
With respect to the purpose for the agreement cal-culation we differentiated between four types: (1) proof of sufficient annotation qualityto warrant the linguistic analysis of the annotated data, (2) proof for the reliability ofa newly developed annotation scheme, (3) part of an annotation study with the aimto identify thresholds or factors that influence inter-annotator agreement (reliabilitystudy), and (4) proof of sufficient annotation quality to warrant the use of the data in(semi-)automatic annotations (e.g., as training sets, gold standards, or test sets).
For thefactor annotator training, we decided to investigate two different levels of granularity:firstly, a binary yes/no differentiation on whether training had taken place; secondly,a three-step differentiation for the intensity of the training as either high, low, or none.Our reason for considering two levels of granularity was that the majority of studies didnot report the exact amount of annotator training, even if they reported that annotatortraining had taken place.
Creating a binary yes/no category allowed us to include thesestudies in the analysis, and thus to provide a broader footing for the question whetherannotator training provides benefits or not.
The finer granularity in turn allowed us todifferentiate between high and low levels of training intensity.
The coding of trainingintensity was based on explicit statements in the reports.
For instance, mention of ?ex-tensive hands-on training?
or ?well-trained annotators?
were coded as high intensity,whereas reports of ?little training?
or providing a ?short introduction?
were coded aslow intensity.
Some studies reported number of training days.
In these cases, we codeddurations from two days to several months as high intensity, and durations of one dayor less as low intensity.
?No training?
was only coded if the authors explicitly reportedthat no training had taken place.The number of annotators was taken as provided in the text (raw counts).
Expertstatus was assigned by the authors of the primary studies and only coded if annotatorswere explicitly referred to as ?experts?
or ?novices?
in the text.
The group of novicesgenerally consisted of (linguistic) students.
Our level of novices thus does not referto complete novices such as the non-expert coders in Amazon?s mechanical Turk task(Snow et al 2008), but to annotators with reduced domain expertise when compared toan expert group.
Language of material was coded as provided in the text.
Languagesrepresented by fewer than 15 indices were grouped together according to languagefamilies (here Iberian Romance and Asian languages).
Languages represented by fewerthan seven indices that could not be grouped into a common language family weregrouped together into a rest category (?others?).
The number of categories in a schemewas recorded as provided in the text (raw counts).Calculation of the agreement index was coded as either pairwise, majority, orconsensus agreement.
Pairwise agreement is calculated as the average percentage of705Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4identical judgments between all pairs of annotators.
In the majority method, agreementis given if a certain proportion of annotators agree on the classification of an item (twoout of three, four out of six, three out of five, etc.).
The consensus method requires thatall annotators in the group make identical decisions on an item.
We further coded thelevel of inter-annotator agreement, which served as the outcome measure (dependentvariable) in all analyses.Table 2 provides a summary of all aspects included in our analysis and the codingof the information extracted from the primary studies.2.4 Data AnalysisThe first step in the data analysis stage is the description of the distribution of effectsizes and the estimation of the population mean with an associated confidence interval.Because some effect sizes, particularly those from large studies, are more reliable esti-mates of the population effect size than others, the effect sizes are usually weighted bytheir precision, that is, the inverse of their squared standard error (Van Den Noortgateand Onghena 2005).
This strategy was also followed in our study.
An agreement rateTable 2Information extracted and coded in the primary studies.Variable Information extracted and codedModerators1.
Process and settingDomain word-sense disambiguation, prosodic transcription,phonetic transcriptionNumber of annotators reported number of annotators (count)Training: 1. conducted yes, no2.
intensity high, low, no trainingAnnotation purpose proof of data quality, scheme development, reliabilitystudy, basis for (semi-)automatic annotation2.
AnnotatorsDomain expertise experts, novices, mixed3.
MaterialLanguage Asian (Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese),Dutch/Flemish, English, French, German, IberianRomance (Spanish, Catalan, Portuguese), Italian,Swedish, others (Basque, Hindi, Romanian, Czech)4.
SchemeNumber of categories reported number of categories in the annotationscheme (count)5.
Agreement indexCalculation of agreement pairwise, majority, consensusOutcome measureLevel of agreement reported agreement in percent706Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?based on a large number of instances thus had a stronger influence on the meta-analyticresults than an agreement rate based on a small number of instances.
Yet, because weused a random effects model of meta-analysis (see the following), each weighting factoralso included an estimate of the variability between all the agreement indices in theanalysis.
This aspect of random effects models has an equalizing effect on the weights.In sum, indices based on many instances got larger weights than indices based on fewinstances, but this effect was mitigated by the variance component (i.e., the estimate ofthe between-studies variability), which is identical for all indices included in a specificanalysis (note that the variance component changes when subgroups of studies areanalyzed).Our effect sizes were agreement rates in percentages.
No other indices were usedin order to guarantee comparability.
We used the individual agreement rates in themeta-analysis, not combined rates on study-level.
Thus, for some studies more thanone agreement rate was included in the analysis when they differed with regard tothe moderator variables scrutinized here.
For example, when a study reported oneagreement rate for experts and a second agreement rate for non-experts, both rates wereused separately, because we wanted to avoid the information loss that is associated withcombining the indices on study level (Hunter and Schmidt 1990).2The second step in the analysis stage is to assess whether the mean effect sizeadequately represents the entire distribution of effects across all studies in the dataset.
If the variability of effect sizes is small, it can be concluded that the mean effectsize characterizes the entire distribution of effect sizes very well.
If the variability islarge, the mean effect size is not very representative of the whole distribution of effectsizes.
The variability thus describes the degree of spread or homogeneity of effect sizesin the sample.
To ascertain whether the spread is too large to speak of a homogeneoussample, a homogeneity test is conducted.
For this, the observed variability of effect sizesis compared with an estimate of the variability that would be expected from samplingerror alone.
In order to accomplish this the Q-statistic is used.
It is based on a chi-squaredistribution with k ?
1 degrees of freedom (k = number of effect sizes) (Hedges andOlkin 1985).Heterogeneity in effect sizes?indicated by a significant Q-statistic?points tothe existence of moderator variables, that is, study characteristics that influence theoutcome of the studies and help to explain the wide spread of effects sizes around themean.
Their influence is ascertained through moderator tests.
For continuous variablesmoderator tests are done via meta-regression, which is a modified form of weightedregression (Hedges and Olkin 1985).3 If the independent variable is a categorical2 In case of one moderator variable (calculation method) this method led to a small number of statisticallydependent agreement indices because some authors computed several agreement indices for identicaldata, for example, by simultaneously reporting pairwise agreement and consensus agreement for thesame set of annotations.
Altogether, this was the case for eight studies reporting 42 indices based on 19independent data sets.
Because this number of nonindependent indices is low compared to the overallnumber of indices included in the meta-analysis, the likelihood that they caused a serious distortion ofthe results is small (Hunter and Schmidt 1990).
We therefore decided to keep these indices in themeta-analysis.
In order to check the stability of our results, we conducted an additional analysis withoutthe nonindependent indices: 23 indices were eliminated so that all remaining indices were statisticallyindependent.
Then all moderator analyses with the overall sample were repeated.
All significantmoderator effects that were found in the analysis reported in the present article could be replicated,demonstrating that the inclusion of this small number of nonindependent indices did not bias the resultsof the meta-analysis.3 Although the moderator variable is used as a predictor variable, it is still called a moderator inmeta-analytic terminology because it influences the effect sizes.707Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4variable, the moderator analysis is done via a meta-analytic analog of analysis ofvariance (Hedges and Pigott 2004).Potential moderators in our study were of two types: frequency counts, such as thenumber of annotators or number of categories in a scheme, and categorical variables(i. e., variables that represent mutually exclusive categories such as type of domainor language of the material).
To test whether the potential moderators extracted fromthe primary studies had a statistically significant impact on agreement, moderatortests were carried out.
For counts the moderator tests were conducted using weightedregression analyses; moderator tests for categorical moderator variables were doneby comparing the mean agreement rates of categories in a variable with a subgroupmoderator test.For the statistical analysis of the effects sizes, both fixed effects models and randomeffects models are available.
Fixed effect models assume that the observed effect sizesstem from the same common population.
Random effects models do not assume acommon population of effect sizes.
Instead, they assume that effect sizes can stem frommultiple populations of which the population effect sizes in the meta-analytic data setis only a random sample.
In consequence, the weights in random effects models differfrom the weights used in fixed effects models.
Weights in random effect models equalthe inverse of the sampling error plus the population variance (Van Den Noortgate andOnghena 2005).
This has an equalizing effect on the weights, because the estimatedpopulation average is the same for all studies, giving small studies a stronger influenceon the end results of the meta-analysis.
In random effects models confidence intervalstend to be wider and moderator tests tend to have less power, rendering it a more con-servative procedure compared to fixed effects models (Cohn and Becker 2003; Hedgesand Pigott 2004).
It is thus harder to detect effects of moderator variables, but also lesslikely to overestimate their influence.The decision of whether to use a fixed or random effects model depends on theresults of the homogeneity test, as well as conceptual deliberations.
If the homogeneitytest is insignificant, fixed and random effects models lead to the same results.
If itis significant, a random effects model should be used.
This general rule, however,can change depending on the aim of the analysis.
If the researcher only intends tosummarize the selected studies in the data set without aiming to generalize to studiesoutside the original data set, a fixed effects model is appropriate even in the case ofheterogeneous effect sizes.
When the goal is to generalize to other studies (for instance,to studies that have not yet been published), the use of a random effects model isrecommended (Hedges and Vevea 1998).The aim of our meta-analysis was clearly to generalize to a broader set of annotationprojects beyond the ones in our sample.
We therefore applied a random effects modelfor the meta-analytic combination of individual agreement indices across primary stud-ies.
Prior to the actual analysis, all values for inter-annotator agreement were logit-transformed.
This transformation is recommended if a high percentage of observedvalues are larger than 0.8, to adjust for the positive skewness in the data (Lipsey andWilson 2001).
In our case 50.2% of reported indices were larger than 0.8, leading to asignificantly positively skewed distribution (z = ?9.5).In addition, a sensitivity analysis (Greenhouse and Iyengar 1994) was carried outto check for atypical studies.
Atypical studies can bias the results for the whole dataset, and should thus be excluded from analysis.
The sensitivity analysis did not identifyatypical studies for the complete data set, so all data points were entered into the analy-sis.
All meta-analytic computations were done with the statistical analysis softwareSPSS 16 using the SPSS syntaxes provided by Lipsey and Wilson (2001).708Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?3.
Results and Discussion3.1 Agreement Rates in the Complete SampleThe average inter-annotator agreement for the complete sample was 81%.
The individ-ual agreement rates, however, deviated considerably from this average value?rangingfrom as low as 13% to a maximum of 100%.
This large range together with a very largeand highly significant heterogeneity statistic (Q = 94182.88, p < 0.001) indicates thatthis variation is too high to be solely attributable to chance.
We can therefore assume thatone or more moderator variables influenced agreement.
To identify these variables, weconducted moderator analyses for all eight characteristics extracted from the primarystudies.
Except for one, all moderator variables extracted in this study were significantinfluencing factors on reported agreements rates.Moderator variables came in two types: count variables and categorical variables.The results of the moderator analyses for the two count variables number of annotatorsand number of categories can be found in Table 3.
Table 4 shows the results for thecategorical variables.
In the following sections, we describe and discuss our findings.3.2 Characteristics of the Annotation Setting3.2.1 Domain Differences.
In the first moderator analysis, we compared the three anno-tation domains in our sample to obtain an indication of similarities in agreement ratesfor disparate annotation tasks.
The average inter-annotator agreement for word-sensedisambiguation was 78%, for prosodic transcriptions 86%, and for phonetic transcrip-tions 75%.
These differences were highly significant (Qb = 46.92, p < 0.001).
Annotationdomain thus emerged as a first significant moderator for inter-annotator agreement.If annotation domains differ significantly in their reported agreement rates, thequestion arises why this is the case.
We see three possible explanations: (1) codingdecisions in some domains are inherently more difficult or ambiguous than in others(impact of domain-specific features), (2) factors other than the domain are responsible(impact of third variables unrelated to domains), or (3) these differences are due tosystematic differences in the types of studies included in our analysis (sampling issue).A look at the complete range of agreement rates in the three domains in Figure 1shows that all three domains contain studies at the upper end of inter-annotator agree-ment.
This observation demonstrates that it is possible in all three domains to obtainhigh or very high agreement rates.
Annotation domain therefore cannot be the solefactor responsible for the differences in average agreements.
Other factors?either aloneor in combination with annotation domain?must play a role.Table 3Results of moderator analyses for count variables (based on the complete data set).Factor Const.
beta p k/n QMod dfM QRes dfRNumber of annotators 1.67 ?0.28 0.000 301/90 40.34 1 474.60???
299Number of categories 1.55 ?0.09 0.026 334/80 4.93 1 557.37???
332Const.
= regression constant; beta = standardized regression weight, negative betas indicate a negativerelationship; p = significance level for beta; k = number of indices; n = number of unique studies; QMod =heterogeneity explained by the regression model; dfM = degrees of freedom for QMod; QRes = unexplainedheterogeneity; dfR = degrees of freedom for QRes.
???
p < 0.001.709Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4Table 4Results of moderator analyses for categorical variables (based on the complete data set).Factor Level Qb p k/n IRRCharacteristics of the process and settingDomain 46.92 0.000Word-sense disambiguation 124/39 0.78Prosodic transcription 140/21 0.86Phonetic transcription 82/34 0.75Training: 1. yes/no 9.90 0.002Training 120/22 0.81No training 32/11 0.702. intensity 20.09 0.000High intensity 28/5 0.86Low intensity 40/7 0.75No training 32/11 0.70Annotation purpose 36.85 0.000Data quality 121/39 0.81Scheme development 57/8 0.84Reliability study 81/21 0.74Basis for (semi-)automatic 55/19 0.86annotationCharacteristics of annotatorsDomain expertise 0.84 0.659Experts 132/36 0.81Novices 50/18 0.81Mixed 27/6 0.78Characteristics of the materialLanguage 72.30 0.000Asian 34/9 0.77Dutch/Flemish 7/5 0.82English 164/51 0.82French 19/4 0.61German 44/14 0.78Iberian Romance 39/10 0.84Italian 10/4 0.89Swedish 16/5 0.89Others 13/5 0.69Characteristics of the agreement indexCalculation method+ 31.93 0.000Pairwise 151/78 0.81Majority 5/2 0.84Consensus 24/13 0.62Qb = between-group homogeneity estimate; p = significance level of effect; k = number of indices; n =number of unique studies; IRR = average agreement.+This analysis included only indices which stemmedfrom annotator groups larger than two.710Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?Figure 1Distribution of agreement rates in the complete data set and individual domains (unweightedmeans).One of these factors could be systematic differences in the types of studies includedin the analysis.
Table 5 shows the domain characteristics for six factors extracted fromthe primary studies.
This comparison shows some differences (e.g., in terms of averagenumber of annotators or average number of categories in a scheme).
To clarify whetherthese variations led to the significant differences among domains we conducted eachmoderator analysis twice: first for the whole data set, second for each of the threedomains separately.
The meta-analysis for the sub-samples will be discussed alongsidethe results for the complete data set.3.2.2 Number of Annotators.
The number of annotators in a study had a significantnegative effect on agreement (?
= ?0.09, p < 0.05, k = 334): The more annotators in-volved the lower was the agreement reported in the study (see Table 3; negativebetas indicating a negative relationship).
This demonstrates a general tendency for anincreasing number of annotators to increase the difficulty in reaching agreement.
The711Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4Table 5Comparison of study characteristics in the three domains (percentage of studies, excludinglanguage).Word-sense k Prosodic k Phonetic kModerator disambiguation transcription transcriptionNumber of annotators m = 3.9 114 m = 6.7 138 m = 2.7 114(s = 3.3) (s = 6.6) (s = 0.9)Number of categories m = 7.3 97 m = 4.5 136 m = 20.8 114(s = 4.5) (s = 4.5) (s = 23.2)Training 1. conducted 23 86 43Yes 17.4% 11.6% 7.0%No 82.6% 88.4% 93.0%Training 2. intensity 23 34 43High 4.3% 32.4% 37.2%Low 13.0% 38.2% 55.8%No training 82.6% 29.4% 7.0%Annotation purpose 112 126 76Data quality 45.5% 38.1% 28.9%Scheme development ?
45.2% ?Reliability study 13.4% 13.5% 64.5%Automatic annotation 41.1% 3.2% 6.6%Domain experience 42 104 63Experts 42.9% 51.0% 96.8%Novices 54.8% 24.0% 3.2%Mixed 2.4% 25.0% ?Calculation technique 105 138 68Pairwise 73.3% 99.3% 94.1%Majority 4.8% ?
?Consensus 21.9% 0.7% 5.9%k = number of indices; m = mean; s = standard deviation.effect became even more pronounced in the domain-specific analyses for word-sensedisambiguation (?
= ?0.24, p < 0.01, k = 114) and prosodic transcriptions (?
= ?0.29,p < 0.001, k = 138).
In the phonetic transcription domain the effect pointed in theopposite direction.
The effect, however, was very weak and close to non-significance(?
= 0.11, p = 0.09, k = 82).
This result is thus most likely a chance effect due to thespecifics of the data set, and therefore hard to interpret in a meaningful way.4Overall, our data suggest a clear tendency for high annotator numbers to decreaseagreement.
The probability for disagreements thus grows with increasing numbers ofcoders.
This result is of immediate practical concern.
If coder agreement is used as a4 A possible explanation for these disparate findings is a systematic variation of annotator numbersemployed in the domains (see Table 5).
Annotations for phonetic transcriptions relied on average on2.7 annotators (range: 2?5, median: 2.0), while word-sense disambiguation studies used on average3.9 annotators (range: 2?17, median: 3.0) and prosodic transcriptions 6.7 annotators (range: 2?26, median:4.0).
The differences between annotator numbers across domains were statistically significant(Kruskall-Wallis test: ?2[2] = 32.35, p < 0.001).
Yet, because the effect in the phonetic transcriptiondomain is so weak and practically non-significant, even if one applies the liberal 10% threshold ofsignificance, we would caution against putting practical significance on this domain?s finding.712Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?proxy for the trustworthiness of annotations, the question arises how many annotatorsneed to agree, to be certain that annotations are trustworthy enough.
Is it acceptable ifonly two coders agree on the same material or is an annotation only reliable if five, six,or more coders are able to reach acceptable agreement levels?That two coders agree more often than groups of four or more points to the fact thatsmall groups may simply not represent the full spectrum of possible disagreements.Two annotators may well agree with each other by chance.
This chance decreases, how-ever, the more annotators get involved, as with rising coder numbers the probabilityof biases or disparate interpretations of language material increases dramatically (Huxet al 1997; Wiebe et al 1998; Wiebe, Bruce, and O?Hara 1999).The full set of possible annotations in a given setting may be described as ?annota-tion space.
?5 A small group of annotators is unlikely to fully represent and explore thisspace of possible annotations?especially when more complex material and annotationschemes are used.
Consequently, the confidence for a judgment on the trustworthinessof annotations increases with the number of coders.
The higher the number of annota-tors who are able to agree, the less bias and distortion can be expected in the data andthe more stable and comparable the results are likely to be.
Reaching high agreementwith a larger number of annotators would thus indicate a higher trustworthiness ofannotations.Assembling large coder groups can be very costly and may not always be feasible.Our suggestion is therefore to treat this issue as a contingency of the task.
For tasks inwhich very high quality is critical, we recommend the use of larger annotator groups(e.g., five or more annotators); for less critical tasks three or four annotators might beadequate.
We also suggest using larger annotator groups in early stages of a project (e.g.,when developing and testing a new coding scheme) to increase the potential to discoverdisagreements early on (allowing a broader investigation of the annotation space).3.2.3 Annotator Training: Realization and Intensity.
With respect to annotator training weanalyzed two aspects: (1) whether training had taken place and (2) the intensity ofthe training.
Providing annotators with training had a clear positive effect on agree-ment among coders (Qb = 9.90, p < 0.01).
Trained annotators reached on average anagreement of 81%, untrained annotators of only 70%.
Taking into account the intensityof the training, our results show that high-intensity training led to significantly betteragreement rates than low intensities or no training: 86% vs. 75% and 70% for the wholesample (Qb = 20.09, p < 0.001).These results were replicated in two of the separate domain analyses.
For phonetictranscriptions agreement rates were 78% for high training intensity, 67% for low in-tensity, and 26% for no training (p < 0.01).
For prosodic transcriptions high trainingintensity resulted in an average agreement of 93% compared with 83% in the othertwo categories (p < 0.01).
Results for the word-sense disambiguation domain were notsignificant.
This result is most likely due to the low number of studies in the trainingcategories (4 of the 23 indices reporting intensity).Overall, results demonstrate a clear positive effect of annotator training on coderagreement.
Our data more specifically indicate that investing in intensive training cansignificantly increase agreement rates.5 We are indebted to one of our reviewers for the notion of annotation space, which we consider a veryuseful theoretical concept to represent the potential breadth of variations in coder answers.713Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 43.2.4 Annotation Purpose.
The purpose for the calculation of annotator agreement wasanother strong influencing factor on reported values (Qb = 36.85, p < 0.001).
Reliabilitystudies generally reported the lowest agreement values (avg.
74%), whereas publica-tions that used manual coding as a basis for (semi-)automatic annotations reportedthe highest values (avg.
86%).
As reliability studies in our sample were defined asinvestigations of upper and lower boundaries of manual annotation quality, and werethus frequently conducted by untrained annotators, the significantly lower agreementin these studies cannot come as a surprise.
In the same regard, the importance of highlyreliable data for the training of algorithms makes the average agreement in this groupunderstandable.
Values lower than 80% are generally considered too low for trainingsets, and will therefore not be reported.
Between these two purposes lay the values forthe test of newly developed annotation schemes (84%) and proof of data quality (81%).Considering domains individually, these findings were replicated for the word-sensedisambiguation and phonetic transcription domains; prosodic transcriptions showedno significant differences between annotation purposes.The fact that annotation purpose significantly influenced reported agreement sug-gests that coder agreement reported in publications cannot be taken as natural upperlimits or ?best possible?
values achievable in an annotation project.
Rather, publishedlevels of inter-annotator agreement are more likely decided by the purpose of the projectand the generally accepted standards in a community.
Such standards can be implicitagreements or explicit rules.
Our findings thus illustrate that (implicit or explicit) stan-dards can actively impact data quality.
They may, for instance, play a significant role indetermining when efforts for the improvement of agreement values are stopped.
Wherehigher boundaries are requested, more effort is expended to meet these standards.This underlines our introductory comments, in which we emphasized the role ofexternal factors in shaping coder agreement even before starting the actual annotations.In this case it means that the simple fact of shared expectations for agreement levels canalready impact the final annotation quality reported in publications.
This does not implythat there may not be inherent or ?natural?
upper bounds to inter-coder agreement;merely that reported rates are impacted by the specific setting in which annotations aremade.Following the arguments made by other authors (Craggs and McGeeWood 2005;Artstein and Poesio 2008), we do not advocate the use of identical thresholds for allsituations or purposes.
Reliability studies, for instance, have by definition no upperbounds, and important information can also be gained from annotations with agree-ment rates lower than 80% (or kappa < 0.80).
A general recommendation would be toadjust the minimum level of agreement depending on the annotation purpose?as isalready the practice in the computational linguistics community as indicated by ourdata.The more important implication from the results is in our view that, if implicit orexplicit rules within a community shape data quality, expectations of what exactly isto be regarded as acceptable or minimal agreement need to be made more explicit.
Thesame is true for the reporting of inter-annotator agreement rates.
For instance, if authorsstop training their annotators because they consider 80% agreement good enough, thenthis fact should be made explicit to their readers.3.3 Characteristics of the Annotators: Domain ExpertiseFor domain expertise we compared agreement levels of three types of annotator groups:those consisting only of experts, those consisting only of novices, and mixed groups of714Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?experts and novices.
For the complete sample, the expert and novice groups reachedboth the same average agreement (81%).
For mixed groups the average agreement wasslightly lower (78%).
This difference was not statistically significant (Qb = 0.84, p =0.66).
More domain expertise thus did not improve agreement rates.
In fact, our datasuggest that the selection of lay annotators can produce agreement rates as high as thosefrom more knowledgeable annotators.This finding was replicated in the separate analysis for prosodic transcriptions.Here, experts and non-experts also did not differ?both reached an average agreementof 87%.
In this domain, however, mixed groups did significantly worse than homo-geneous groups (78%, p < 0.01).
For word-sense disambiguation expert annotatorsachieved significantly higher agreement rates than non-expert annotators (88% vs. 73%).The mixed group was only represented by one value precluding comparisons.
Noseparate meta-analysis was conducted for phonetic transcriptions, as here all but twoof the 63 entries fell in the expert category.Results on domain expertise thus leave us with a somewhat mixed picture.
Thecomplete sample and prosodic transcription suggest that domain expertise has no directinfluence on agreement rates.
The considerable gap between the two average agree-ment rates for word-sense disambiguation, in contrast, illustrates that in this domainexpertise is indeed an important factor for agreement.
In practical terms, our findingsmean two things: (1) the influence of expertise on agreement seems to differ acrossdomains, and (2) to increase the likelihood of high agreement rates annotator groupsshould consist of coders with a comparable level of expertise.Given this mixed picture, the question arises when to choose experts, and whennovices.
For domains such as word-sense disambiguation, in which expertise increasesagreement, the greater costs in employing domain experts compared to non-experts areclearly worthwhile, if high quality annotations are needed (Kilgarriff 1999).
Becauseof the restriction in domains in our sample we cannot predict which domains?otherthan the ones we investigated in this study?would particularly profit from expertannotators.
Yet, given the existence of this effect, we think that further investigationswould be profitable to clarify this point.A more complex finding is that mixed groups generally resulted in lower agreementrates than homogeneous groups.
Implicit in discussions of inter-annotator agreement isthat coders not only agree on which unit belongs to which category, but that if they agreethese decisions are also correct with respect to the phenomenon under scrutiny.
Inter-annotator agreement is thus interpreted as an ?estimate?
of the correctness or validityof annotations (Smyth 1995).
Yet, in the prosodic transcriptions domain experts andnon-experts achieved comparable levels of agreement, while the average agreementfor mixed groups was significantly lower.
In other words, experts and novices wereequally reliable, yet did not agree with each other.
This leaves the question, which ofthe annotations are more ?correct.
?If mixed groups result in more disagreements than homogeneous groups, expertsand non-experts must differ systematically in their perceptions of language materialand/or their annotation behaviors.
Experts, for instance, often rely on tacit assump-tions derived from prior experiences that are not part of the actual coding manual(Krippendorff 2004).
These experiences also result in differences in experts?
cognitiveprocesses compared to those of novices even if they do not differ in their ability toencode or retrieve information (Larkin et al 1980; Yekovich, Thompson, and Walker1991).
From our data, we cannot say in what way exactly the two groups differ.
Whereasin some cases, novice annotations may indeed be wrong, it is also possible that novicejudgments simply represent a different view on language phenomena and are thus just715Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4as valid as expert decisions.
The main implication from this finding is that choicesbetween experts and novices should rather be a question of what interpretation isrequired than a question of right versus wrong.
Our recommendation therefore is toselect coders according to the content or purpose of the annotation.
If the researchquestion is concerned with language usage/interpretation by ?naive speakers,?
thena novice group should be used.
If the purpose is to yield high-quality annotations ina very complex field, domain experts should be chosen.
If a broad view is needed, orif authors want to increase their chance to find weaknesses in the annotation schemeand/or setting in the early stage of an annotation project, then a mix of experts andnon-experts should be used.3.3.1 Expertise versus Training.
One of the main questions when choosing annotatorsis whether to look for experts or to provide training for less-expert coders.
Althoughfindings for training were clearer than results on expertise, solely based on our data it isnot possible to say whether trained annotators generally perform systematically betteror worse than expert coders.
Our data demonstrate that annotator training increasesconsistency among coders, although?as with prosodic transcriptions?in some casesonly intensive training will bring a definite improvement over untrained annotators.Yet, as past research on ratings of language proficiency suggests, training effects maynot endure for long (Lumley 1995).
A study by Lewis, Watterson, and Houghton (2003)on ratings of nasality points in the same direction.
Comparing three groups, highlyexperienced and trained individuals, highly experienced individuals without training,and inexperienced but trained individuals, they found that the first two groups weremore reliable than the third.
Past research thus suggests that in the long-term domainexpertise may be a better predictor for inter-annotator agreement than training.
Formore critical tasks the selection of expert annotators thus seems advisable over codertraining for non-expert annotators.
If expert coders are not available, our data suggestthat coder training is a good way to compensate, as long as it is intensive.
Becausetraining effects fade over time, we further advise repeated checks of inter-annotatoragreement and retraining of coders at regular intervals.3.4 Characteristics of the Material: LanguageLanguage of the material was the only characteristic of the material comparable acrossstudies and domains.
We found highly significant differences in the agreement rates oflanguages (Qb = 72.30, p < 0.001).
Italian and Swedish showed the highest agreement,with 89% in both cases.
The lowest agreement rates were found for Asian languages(77%), French (61%), and the ?others?
category (69%).
Word-sense disambiguationshowed similar effects as the overall sample, with the lowest agreement rate for Frenchand the ?other?
category (p< 0.001).
For the phonetic transcription domain, the ?other?category was again the weakest followed by German, Iberian Romance, and French(p < 0.02).
The prosodic transcription domain had too few studies to allow a validcomparison across languages.Overall, language did not present a very clear picture.
French and the ?other?category generally emerged as the most problematic categories.
For this result a numberof factors may be responsible.
Generally, primary studies using French material tendedto use more fine-grained schemes, as well as a higher number of annotators.
Studiesbased on French material also included a higher number of reliability studies in whichannotators received no training.
Annotations for Asian languages and the ?other?
cate-gory differed similarly in study characteristics; for instance, a higher average number of716Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?categories for coding (Asian languages: m = 11.2; others: m = 12.5 compared to Italian:m = 5.0 and Swedish: m = 3.2).
Based on these findings, we would therefore cautionto infer a direct effect of language on annotator agreement.
Results rather suggest thatother factors such as annotation purpose, number of categories, or number of annotatorsplay a more important role than language.63.5 Characteristics of the Annotation Scheme: Number of CategoriesFor the complete sample we found a highly significant negative relationship betweencategories and inter-annotator agreement (?
= ?0.28, p < 0.001).
Thus, inter-annotatoragreement decreased with a rising number of categories in the coding scheme.
Thisresult was replicated for each of the three domains (word-sense disambiguation: ?
=?0.29, p < 0.001 after elimination of one outlier study; prosodic transcriptions: ?
=?0.21, p < 0.01; phonetic transcriptions: ?
= ?0.22, p < 0.05).
The replication of thenegative relationship found in the overall data set for all three domains points towardsa general link between number of categories and inter-annotator agreement.The main implication of this finding is that annotation schemes should be assparse as possible, if the reliability of annotations has to be high.
More categoriesput higher demands on annotators, both in terms of memory load (i.e., keeping allpossible categories in mind) as well as their ability to differentiate between possiblechoices.
Fine-grained schemes, in which categories differ only slightly in their mean-ing, are especially problematic (Rumshisky and Batiukova 2008).
Part of the negativerelationship can thus be explained by cognitive factors, in the sense that a high numberof categories require more (and often finer-grained) differentiations, which tend to beharder to make.
A part of the negative relationship is thus likely due to disagreements ofcoders on finer-grained categories or the inability to differentiate between very similarcategories.The negative relationship between number of categories and agreement may alsobe partly due to the statistical properties of agreement indices, which link an increasingnumber of categories to lower agreement.
This relationship has been found for percent-ages as well as kappa (Julius and Wright 2005; Artstein and Poesio 2008).
Our studycannot determine whether this statistical influence is equally or even more importantthan the impact of increasing cognitive demands for annotators.
Qualitative studiesdemonstrate, however, that larger and finer-grained schemes do have an influence onannotator behavior (Krishnamurthy and Nicholls 2000; Versley 2006).
We are thereforecertain that at least a part of the negative relationship is attributable to the increaseddifficulty of more complex schemes.
The practical implication of this finding is thatlarge schemes should be avoided, if high inter-coder agreement is necessary.3.6 Characteristics of the Agreement Index: Calculation MethodFor the comparison of calculation methods we only included studies with more thantwo annotators.
Calculation method showed a clear impact on agreement (Qb = 31.93,p < 0.000, k = 180).
The calculation as majority or pairwise agreement yielded sys-tematically higher agreement rates than when the consensus method was used.
For6 Most studies did not provide information on the language proficiency of the annotators.
Where suchinformation was provided, annotators were generally indicated as native speakers.717Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4the pairwise method the average agreement rate was 81% (k = 151), for the majoritymethod 84% (k = 5), and the consensus method resulted in an average agreement of62% (k = 24).
The significantly lower agreement using the consensus method couldbe replicated in the separate analyses for word-sense disambiguation (p < 0.001) andphonetic transcriptions (p < 0.001).
In the subsample for prosodic transcriptions onlyone study used the consensus method.
We therefore did not run a separate analysis forthis domain.When considering the implications of this result, it must be noted that the differ-ences in agreement rates are not due to actual differences in the underlying data.
Ratherthe three indices represent conceptual differences in what is regarded as ?agreement?.The three methods are thus not simply statistical alternatives, but represent disparateapproaches to agreement.
Pairwise agreement is calculated by averaging the indicesobtained by comparing the annotation of one annotator with the annotation of eachremaining annotator.
An index obtained by consensus does not consider pairs but thewhole group of annotators as the basis of calculation.
Here agreement is only given ifall annotators agree in their annotation of an instance.
The criterion for agreement isthus much stronger in consensus than in pairwise agreement.
The majority method liesbetween these two approaches, and can either use a more lenient stance (for instance,agreement is given if three out of five coders agree) or a more strict understandingof agreement (four out of five coders need to agree).
Because the consensus methodis more severe in punishing disagreement than either of the other two methods, thesystematically lower agreement with this calculation method cannot be a surprise?it issimply an expression of the stronger criterion for agreement.The significant differences among computation techniques raise the question, whichof the methods is the most appropriate, and whether the same thresholds and standardsacross computation methods can be applied.
Because results of consensus and majorityvotes will depend on the number of annotators in the study with a likely trend forlower coefficients in the case of more annotators, indices from different studies are oftennot directly comparable, and a comparison of indices derived with different calculationmethods seems questionable at best.
To our knowledge, no clear rule on either differen-tial thresholds or on the feasibility or preferability of one calculation method over theother exists.
Our suggestion would be to treat calculation method as a contingency ofthe criticality of the task.
In practical terms this means: Because consensus methods are much more sensitive to disagreement andrequire more absolute agreements on identical items, this method seemsmost appropriate where reliability of data is highly critical. For less critical tasks, pairwise agreement can be used. Sensitivity can be adjusted by changing the criterion in majority votes, thatis, the number of coders in a group that need to agree on an item. The interpretation of reported agreement values must take the methodused for their calculation into account.4.
Summary of ResultsThe aim of our study was to identify influencing factors that impact inter-coder agree-ment.
For this purpose we reviewed 96 reports of manual annotations (with a totalof 346 agreement indices) in three domains using a statistical meta-analytic approach.718Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?In this context we investigated eight disparate factors providing information on thecharacteristics of the setting, annotators, material, annotation scheme, and calculationmethod.
The following is a summary of our results:1.
Domain: Agreement rates differed significantly across domains.
They werehighest for the phonetic transcription domain followed by word-sensedisambiguation and prosodic transcriptions.2.
Number of annotators: Inter-annotator agreement decreased with increasingnumber of annotators.3.
Training: Training improved inter-annotator agreement, particularly if thetraining intensity was high.4.
Annotation purpose: Inter-annotator agreement differed systematicallyacross annotation purposes.
It was highest for data sets intended as basisfor (semi-)automatic annotations and lowest for reliability studies.5.
Domain expertise: Experts and novices reached the same level of agreementin the overall data set and the prosodic transcription domain.
Inword-sense disambiguation expertise led to significantly higheragreement, indicating that the relevance of expertise differs acrossdomains.
Homogeneous groups of only experts or only non-expertsachieved generally higher agreement rates than mixed groups.6.
Language of the material: We found no clear results for language.
Frenchand ?others?
generally yielded the lowest agreement rates, but this wasprobably due to other factors such as annotation purpose.7.
Number of categories: Agreement rates decreased with rising numbers ofcategories in a scheme.8.
Calculation method: Calculation method systematically impacted thereported agreement values.
Majority and pairwise methods resultedin higher values than the consensus method.5.
Additional Recommendations and Theoretical Implications5.1 Steps to Increase the Likelihood of Inter-Coder Agreement and Confidencein AnnotationsIn the presentation of our findings, we discussed two kinds of recommendations: onefor increasing the likelihood of inter-coder agreement, the other for increasing theconfidence in the trustworthiness of annotations.To increase likelihood of inter-coder agreement, we suggest: use few categories use annotators with the same level of domain expertise provide training, preferably of high intensityTo increase confidence in the trustworthiness of annotations, we suggest: use larger groups of annotators (e.g., five or more for very critical tasks,three or four for less critical tasks)719Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4 calculate agreement as consensus rather than as pairwise or (lenient)majority agreement5.2 Reporting of InformationGiven systematic influences on agreement rates, reported agreement rates become afunction of the specific context in which annotation data were collected: Although 85%agreement between two coders using four categories might not be hard to achieve,the same value for a group of six annotators using ten or more categories could bemuch more challenging.
The same is true for agreement rates achieved by untrained orlittle-trained annotators versus expert or highly trained annotators, or the calculation ofagreement as pairwise or consensus agreement.
As discussed previously, the systematicinfluences of such factors as training, annotation purpose, number of categories andannotators, and so forth, demonstrate that agreement values depend on the context andthe way agreement was achieved and calculated.Unfortunately, reports of annotation studies tend to include very few specifics onthe setting or procedure.
For example, only 34.4% of all studies we analyzed reportedinformation on whether training had taken place, and only about 12.5% of these studiesgave any precise indication of how much training annotators received.
Only slightlymore than half of the studies (54.2%) reported the expert status of annotators, and 16.7%were missing information on how the agreement index was calculated.
Four studies inour sample even failed to provide the number of annotators in the project.
The lack ofcontext information makes it difficult to develop a fair appreciation of the agreement ina specific study.
We therefore would like to encourage a more systematic and detailedway of reporting annotation reliability.
In our opinion, a minimum set of informationshould include:1.
Number of annotators2.
Type and amount of material annotated3.
Number of categories in the scheme4.
Criteria for selecting annotators5.
Annotators?
expert status (novices, domain experts, schema developers,native speakers, etc.)6.
Type and intensity of training7.
Type and computation of the agreement index8.
Purpose for calculating the agreement index (including whether the goalwas to reach a certain threshold or achieve ?highest-possible?
agreement)In a further step, we would also recommend an agreement on the interpretation oflabels such as ?novice,?
?expert,?
or different levels of training intensity.
For instance,can students still be considered novices or do we reserve this label for completelynaive coders with no former experience in the domain and annotations?
Also, somestudies in our sample spoke of ?well-trained annotators,?
some of ?extensively trained?annotators.
Do they imply the same level of training and thus knowledge, and howmuch training has been conducted to result in ?well-trained?
coders?
These few exam-ples from our data already demonstrate how difficult it can be to compare even basic720Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?information across studies.
A clearly defined set of labels would greatly facilitate sucha comparison.
We would therefore like to encourage efforts to develop such a commonvocabulary for manual annotations.5.3 Theoretical Implications: Differentiating between Agreement and CorrectnessImplicit in discussions of inter-annotator agreement is that coders not only agree onwhich unit belongs to which category, but that if they agree these decisions are alsocorrect with respect to the phenomenon under scrutiny.
Inter-annotator agreement isthus interpreted as an estimate of the correctness or validity of annotations (Smyth1995).
In our study, this assumption left us with a dilemma.
Our data showed thatexperts and non-experts could achieve comparable levels of agreement, whereas theaverage agreement for mixed groups was significantly lower.
In other words, expertsand novices were equally reliable, yet did not agree with each other.This dilemma points to the difficulty of distinguishing between annotator agreementand correctness of annotations.
Whereas annotation studies are generally concerned aboutthe reliability of their data, the validity of annotator decisions seems to be implied.
Ourfinding on expert and novice coders at least warrants the question of whether reliabil-ity (measured in terms of inter-annotator agreement) can provide all the informationneeded to make an informed decision about overall annotation quality.
Reliability cangive us a fair indication of the trustworthiness of our data with respect to unsystematicvariation (Hollnagel 1993), but it does not provide us with an indication of its correct-ness.
We thus think that future discussions about annotation quality should be extendedconceptually to include both reliability and validity considerations.6.
LimitationsAlthough the meta-analytic method is widely accepted as a valuable approach to syn-thesize information, our analysis also has several limitations.
One of the main challengesof the meta-analytic method is that it is restricted to the information reported in itsprimary sources.
One of the first observations coming out of our review was the generalscarcity and unsystematic nature of information in annotation reports.
This limited ourability to include a wider range of possible moderators in our analysis.
We hope thatour article encourages authors to provide more background information on the anno-tation setting and process.
This will not only increase the understanding of reportedagreement values, but also increase our chance to investigate additional influences anddomains in the future.Our analyses further focused exclusively on agreement percentages.
This was dueto the fact that reports of other indices such as kappa, F-, or alpha-measures were toorare to warrant a statistical analysis.
Our recommendations thus apply only directlyif authors use percentages to measure coder agreement.
This raises the question as tohow far our findings are applicable to other summary measures such as kappa, as theseindices are based on slightly different concepts of agreement.
Percentage agreementhas been widely criticized as a biased measure, as it lacks the correction for chanceagreement other indices such as kappa provide (Carletta 1996; Artstein and Poesio2008).
It is, for instance, prone to overestimating agreement in the case of few categories.Kappa on the other hand has been criticized as an overly conservative measure (Strijboset al 2006).
It could thus be argued that statistical properties of agreement indices mayinfluence meta-analytic results.
Although we cannot rule out that the specific statisticalproperties of agreement indices may introduce biases into the statistical results, we721Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4are confident that these influences will not change the general picture of our results,especially given the large sample and the robust effects we found for most factors.Thus, although different agreement indices are based on slightly different conceptsof agreement, the general intent and direction of indices are comparable.
We wouldthus expect that meta-analyses for alternatives to percentage agreement will lead tovery similar results.
The only exception might be number of categories.
Controllingfor the influence of number of categories was one of the foremost reasons why kappawas invented.
In consequence, for chance-corrected coefficients such as kappa a muchsmaller or possibly no moderator effect could emerge.
Still, an increasing number ofcategories often also implies that categories become harder to distinguish.
A part of thenegative relationship between number of categories and agreement values could thusalso be due to the increasing challenges in differentiating between increasingly similarcategories.
This effect has been demonstrated in qualitative studies (Krishnamurthy andNicholls 2000; Versley 2006) and would not be affected by the correction for chance.
Ourassumption would be that, if the negative relationship can be attributed entirely to thenumber of categories in a scheme, a meta-analysis of chance corrected measures wouldfind smaller or no moderator effect.
If disagreements are (also) due to the inability todistinguish categories, a comparatively large negative relationship should remain.
Inour analysis we did not differentiate between the two factors schema size and similarityof categories, and at present, not enough data exist to conduct comparative meta-analysesof different agreement indices on this or other factors.
However, as kappa is starting toreplace agreement percentages, a systematic analysis of this index and a comparisonwith the present findings will, we hope, become feasible.For methodological reasons our analysis was restricted to those three annotationdomains that offered sufficient data to conduct robust moderator analyses.
This restric-tion raises the question as to how far our results are generalizable to other domains.The important aspect to determine comparability is whether the coding problems andprocedures that are typical for these three domains are also typical for linguistic an-notations in general.
In other words, generalizability is given if coding problems andprocedures found in the three domains in our analysis are typical for the linguisticdomain our results are to be applied to.
In our estimation the factors examined in thisarticle (e.g., number of annotators, number of categories in an annotation scheme, orintensity of annotator training) are relevant for the majority of annotation tasks.
Wetherefore argue that the results in this article are generalizable to other domains, as longas these domains do not differ more from the studies in our sample than these studiesdiffer among themselves.
Consequently, if the reader considers these three domains astypical for linguistic annotation tasks the results of the overall analysis can be seen asgeneric.
This is particularly true if these results could be replicated within the domain-specific analyses, which had a weaker test power due to the smaller number of studiesincluded in each analysis.7.
ConclusionsThe aim of our study was to identify factors that impact the degree of inter-coder agree-ment.
The practical contributions of our study to the field of computational linguisticsare recommendations on what steps to take to increase the likelihood of inter-annotatoragreement and the trustworthiness of annotations.
We further provided suggestionsfor the choice between expertise and coder training, as well as a minimal standardfor the reporting of annotations.
Our study also raised some conceptual questions,such as the differentiation between similarity (i.e., coder agreement) and correctness722Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?of annotations, and the need to view agreement rates in the context of their setting andpurpose.
The quality of manual linguistic annotations is a complex area, which clearlydeserves further study.
We hope that this study can provide not only practical guidancefor computational linguists, but also pointers for further research on inter-annotatoragreement.ReferencesAndreevskala, Alina and Sabine Bergler.2006.
Semantic tag extraction fromWordNet glosses.
In Proceedings of the5th Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC-2006), pages 413?416,Genoa.Artstein, Ron and Massimo Poesio.
2008.Inter-coder agreement for computationallinguistics.
Computational Linguistics,34(4):555?596.Begg, Colin B.
1994.
Publication bias.
InHarris Cooper and Larry V. Hedges,editors, The Handbook of ResearchSynthesis.
Sage, New York, pages 399?409.Beigman Klebanov, Beata and Eyal Beigman.2009.
From annotator agreement to noisemodels.
Computational Linguistics,35(4):495?503.Beigman Klebanov, Beata, Eyal Beigman,and Daniel Diermeier.
2008.
Analyzingdisagreements.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Human Judgements inComputational Linguistics (Coling 2008),pages 2?7, Manchester.Calhoune, Sasha, Malvina Nissim, MarkSteedeman, and Jason Brenier.
2005.
Aframework for annotating informationstructure in discourse.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Frontiers in Corpus AnnotationII: Pie in the Sky (ACL 2005), pages 45?52,Ann Arbor, MI.Carletta, Jean.
1996.
Assessing agreementon classification tasks: The kappastatistic.
Computational Linguistics,22(2):249?254.Cohn, Lawrence D. and Betsy J. Becker.2003.
How meta-analysis increasesstatistical power.
Psychological Methods,8(3):243?253.Cooper, Harris and Larry V. Hedges.
1994a.The Handbook of Research Synthesis.
Sage,New York.Cooper, Harris and Larry V. Hedges.1994b.
Research synthesis as a scientificenterprise.
In H. Cooper and L. V. Hedges,editors, The Handbook of Research Synthesis.Sage, New York, pages 3?14.Craggs, Richard and Mary McGeeWood.2005.
Evaluating discourse and dialoguecoding schemes.
Computational Linguistics,31(3):289?295.DiEugenio, Barbara and Michael Glass.2004.
The kappa statistic: A second look.Computational Linguistics, 30(1):95?101.Fiske, Donald W. 1983.
The meta-analyticrevolution in outcome research.
Journalof Consulting and Clinical Psychology,51(1):65?70.Glass, Gene V. 1976.
Primary, secondary, andmeta-analysis of research.
EducationalResearcher, 5(10):3?8.Glass, Gene V. and Mary L. Smith.
1979.Meta-analysis of research on therelationship of class size and achievement.Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis,1(1):2?16.Greene, Jennifer C., Valerie J. Caracelli,and Wendy F. Graham.
1989.
Toward aconceptual framework for mixed-methodevaluation designs.
Educational Evaluationand Policy Analysis, 11(3):255?274.Greenhouse, Joel B. and Satish Iyengar.1994.
Sensitivity analysis and diagnostics.In Harris Cooper and Larry V. Hedges,editors, The Handbook of Research Synthesis.Russel Sage, New York, pages 383?398.Grefenstette, Gregory, Yan Qu, David A.Evand, and James G. Shanahan.
2006.Validating the coverage of lexical resourcesfor affect analysis and automaticallyclassifying new words along semanticaxes.
In James G. Shanahan, Yan Qu, andJanice Wiebe, editors, Computing Attitudeand Affect in Text: Theory and Application.Technical Report SS-04-07.
AmericanAssociation for Artificial Intelligence,Menlo Park, CA, pages 63?70.Gruenstein, Alexander, John Niekransz, andMatthew Purver.
2005.
Meeting structureannotation: Data and tools.
In Proceedingsof the 6th SIGdial Workshop on Discourseand Dialogue, pages 117?127, Lisbon.Hedges, Larry V. and Ingram Olkin.
1985.Statistical Methods for Meta-Analysis.Academic Press, Orlando, FL.Hedges, Larry V. and Therese D. Pigott.2004.
The power of statistical tests formoderators in meta-analysis.
PsychologicalMethods, 9(4):426?445.Hedges, Larry V. and Jack L. Vevea.
1998.Fixed- and random-effects models inmeta-analysis.
Psychological Methods,3(4):486?504.723Computational Linguistics Volume 37, Number 4Hollnagel, Erik.
1993.
Human ReliabilityAnalysis Context and Control.
AcademicPress, London.Hunter, John E. and Frank.
L. Schmidt.
1990.Methods of Meta-Analysis.
Correcting Errorand Bias in Research Findings.
Sage,New York.Hux, Karen, Dixie Sanger, Robert Reid,and Amy Maschka.
1997.
Discourseanalysis procedures: Reliability issues.Journal of Communication Disorders,30(2):133?150.Julius, Sim and Chris C. Wright.
2005.The kappa statistic in reliability studies:Use, interpretation, and sample sizerequirements.
Physical Therapy,85(3):257?268.Kilgarriff, Adam.
1999.
95% replicability formanual word sense tagging.
In Proceedingsof the 9th Conference of the European Chapterof the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (EACL 1999), pages 277?278,Bergen.Krippendorff, Klaus.
2004.
Content Analysis:An Introduction to Its Methodology.
Sage,Thousand Oaks, CA, 4th ed.Krishnamurthy, Ramesh and DianeNicholls.
2000.
Peeling an onion: Thelexicographer?s experience of manualsense-tagging.
Computers and theHumanities, 34(1-2):85?97.Larkin, Jill, John McDermott, Dorothea P.Simon, and Herbert A. Simon.
1980.
Expertand novice performance in solving physicsproblems.
Science, 208:1335?1342.Lewis, Kerry E., Thomas L. Watterson, andSarah M. Houghton.
2003.
The influenceof listener experience and academictraining on ratings of nasality.
Journal ofCommunication Disorders, 36(1):49?58.Lipsey, Mark W. and David B. Wilson.2001.
Practical Meta-Analysis.
Sage,Thousand Oaks, CA.Lumley, Tom.
1995.
Rater characteristicsand rater bias: Implications for training.Language Testing, 12(1):54?71.Navigli, Roberto.
2009.
Word sensedisambiguation: A survey.
ACMComputing Surveys, 41(2):1?69.Neuendorf, Kimberly A.
2002.
The ContentAnalysis Guidebook.
Sage, ThousandOaks, CA.Oppermann, Daniela, Susanne Burger,and Kark Weilhammer.
2000.
What aretranscription errors and why are theymade?
In Proceedings of the 2nd InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2000), pages 409?441,Athens.Passoneau, Rebecca J.
2004.
Computingreliability for co-reference annotation.In Proceedings of LREC-2004,pages 1503?1506, Lisbon.Passonneau, Rebecca J., Ansaf Salleb-Aouissi, and Nancy Ide.
2009.
Makingsense of word sense variation.
InProceedings of the Workshop on SemanticEvaluations: Recent Achievements and FutureDirections, pages 2?9, Boulder, CO.Pitt, Mark, Keith Johnson, ElizabethHume, Scott Kiesling, and William D.Raymond.
2005.
The Buckeye corpusof conversational speech: Labelingconventions and a test of transcriberreliability.
Speech Communication,45(1):89?95.Popescu-Belis, Andrei.
2008.
Dimensionalityof dialogue act tagsets.
An empiricalanalysis of large corpora.
LanguageResources and Evaluation, 42(1):99?107.Purver, Matthew, Patrick Ehlers, andJohn Niekrasz.
2006.
Shallow discoursestructure for action item detection.In Proceedings of the ACTS Workshop(HLT-NAACL 2006), pages 31?34,New York, NY.Rosenthal, Robert.
1995.
Writingmeta-analytic reviews.
PsychologicalBulletin, 118(2):183?192.Rumshisky, Anna and Olga Batiukova.2008.
Polysemy in verbs: Systematicrelations between senses and their effecton annotation.
In HumanJudge ?08:Proceedings of the Workshop on HumanJudgements in Computational Linguistics,pages 33?41, Morristown, NJ.Smith, Mary L. and Gene V. Glass.
1977.Meta-analysis of psychotherapyoutcome studies.
American Psychologist,32(9):752?760.Smyth, Padhraic.
1995.
Learning withprobabilistic supervision.
In ThomasPetsche, editor, Computational LearningTheory and Natural Learning Systems.Vol.
III: Selecting Good Models.
MIT Press,Cambridge, MA, pages 163?182.Snow, Rion, Brendan O?Connor, DanielJurafsky, and Andrew Y. Ng.
2008.Cheap and fast?but is it good?Evaluating non-expert annotations fornatural language tasks.
In Proceedingsof the Conference on Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing(EMNLP ?08), pages 254?263,Stroudsburg, PA.Strijbos, Jan-Willem, Rob L. Martens, FransJ.
Prins, and Wim M. G. Jochems.
2006.Content analysis: What are they talking724Bayerl and Paul What Determines Inter-Coder Agreement?about?
Computers and Education,46(1):29?48.Syrdal, Ann, Julia Hirschberg, JuliaMcGory, and Mary E. Beckman.2001.
Automatic ToBI prediction andalignment to speed manual labelingof prosody.
Speech Communication,33(1?2):135?151.Teufel, Simone, Jean Carletta, and MarcMoens.
1999.
An annotation scheme fordiscourse-level argumentation in researcharticles.
In Proceedings of the 8th Meeting ofthe European Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (EACL-99),pages 110?117, Bergen.Uzuner, Ozlem, Peter Szolovits, andIsaac Kohane.
2006. i2b2 workshopon natural language processingchallenges for clinical records.
InProceedings of the Fall Symposium of theAmerican Medical Informatics Association(AMIA 2006), pages 1252?1253,Washington, DC.Van Den Noortgate, Wim and PatrickOnghena.
2005.
Meta-analysis.
InBrian S. Everitt and David C. Howell,editors, Encyclopedia of Statistics inBehavioral Science.
Wiley, Chichester,3rd edition, pages 1206?1217.Versley, Yannik.
2006.
Disagreementdissected: Vagueness as a source ofambiguity in nominal (co-)reference.In Proceedings of the Ambiguity inAnaphora Workshop (ESSLLI 2006),pages 83?89, Malaga.Wiebe, Janyce, Tom O?Hara, ThorstenOhrstrom-Sandgren, and KennethMcKeever.
1998.
An empirical approachto temporal reference resolution.Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research,9(1):247?293.Wiebe, Janyce, Teresa Wilson, and ClaireCardie.
2005.
Annotating expressionsof opinions and emotions in language.Language Resources and Evaluation,39(2):165?210.Wiebe, Janyce M., Rebecca F. Bruce, andThomas P. O?Hara.
1999.
Developmentand use of a gold standard data set forsubjectivity classifications.
In Proceedingsof the 37th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics (ACL-99),pages 246?253, College Park, MD.Yekovich, Frank R., Michele A. Thompson,and Carol H. Walker.
1991.
Generation andverification of inferences by experts andtrained nonexperts.
American EducationalResearch Journal, 28(1):189?209.The list of primary studies used in the meta-analysis can be obtained from the first authorupon request.725
