SquibsFruit Carts: A Domain and Corpus for Research inDialogue Systems and PsycholinguisticsGregory Aist?Iowa State UniversityEllen Campana?
?Arizona State UniversityJames Allen?University of RochesterMary Swift?University of RochesterMichael K. Tanenhaus?University of RochesterWe describe a novel domain, Fruit Carts, aimed at eliciting human language production for thetwin purposes of (a) dialogue system research and development and (b) psycholinguistic research.Fruit Carts contains five tasks: choosing a cart, placing it on a map, painting the cart, rotatingthe cart, and filling the cart with fruit.
Fruit Carts has been used for research in psycholinguisticsand in dialogue systems.
Based on these experiences, we discuss how well the Fruit Cartsdomain meets four desired features: unscripted, context-constrained, controllable difficulty, andseparability into semi-independent subdialogues.
We describe the domain in sufficient detail toallow others to replicate it; researchers interested in using the corpora themselves are encouragedto contact the authors directly.1.
Introduction and Relation to Prior WorkDialogue system research, like much else in computational linguistics, has greatlybenefited from corpora of natural speech.
With notable exceptions (e.g.
the EdinburghMaptask, Anderson et al [1991]), these corpora consist of samples annotated withlinguistic properties (e.g.
POS, syntax, discourse status) setting aside the visual and?
206 Ross Hall, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011.
E-mail: gregory.aist@alumni.cmu.edu.??
240c Matthews Center, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona 85287.
E-mail: ellen.campana@asu.edu.?
721 CSB, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14627.
Email: james@cs.rochester.edu.?
732 CSB, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14627.
E-mail: swift@cs.rochester.edu.?
420 Meliora, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14627.
E-mail: mtan@bcs.rochester.edu.Submission received: 24 August 2009; revised submission received: 6 May 2010; accepted for publication:20 September 2010.?
2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 3pragmatic aspects of the context in which they occurred.
In recent years natural lan-guage processing (NLP) researchers have been working to incorporate visual and othercontext into their models and systems (DeVault and Stone 2004; Gabsdil and Lemon2004; Schuler, Wu, and Schwartz 2009).
This is consistent with the growing evidence inpsycholinguistics that human language production crucially depends on such aspects ofcontext.
To take this NLP research further, there is a need for more corpora that includeboth variation in, and annotation of, visual and pragmatic context.There are still many open questions that span computational linguistics andpsycholinguistics concerning how natural language and context are related.
One corequestion at the intersection of these areas is how the inherent difficulty of describing anend-goal (i.e., its codability) will affect the structure and content of referring expressionsand the referential strategy speakers adopt.
Referential strategies are a topic of grow-ing interest in natural language generation.
In recent work, Viethen and Dale (2006)demonstrated that even when describing simple grid layouts, people adopt differentreferential strategies, due perhaps to proximity to landmarks (and hence codability):the orange drawer below the two yellow drawers, in contrast to the yellow drawer in the thirdcolumn from the left second from the top.
For systems to produce humanlike references inthese situations, existing methods of reference generation will need to be modified orextended to include better models of the choice of referential strategies (Viethen andDale 2006).
Such models can also be expected to improve reference resolution: If betterpredictions can be made about what people will say in a given situation, automaticspeech recognition language models can be tighter, NLP grammars can be smaller, andunlikely parses can be avoided, improving both speed and accuracy.Recent psycholinguistic research suggests that codability does play a role in humanreference production (e.g., Cook, Jaeger, and Tanenhaus 2009).
This work has largelyfocused on timing, signals of production difficulty (e.g., disfluency, gesture), and thecontent of referring expressions (e.g., adjectives, pronouns).
There has been muchless consideration of how entire referential strategies might systematically vary withcodability.
A corpus with the correct design and structure will allow for investigationof the more well-studied aspects as well as higher-level factors such as strategy choice,and possible interactions between them.With these considerations in mind, we designed a domain, Fruit Carts, and a setof corresponding tasks in order to elicit human language production for two pur-poses: 1) the testing of psycholinguistic hypotheses, specifically that object complexitymodulates referential strategy, and more generally the exploration of the relationshipbetween visual context and human?human dialogue, and 2) research and developmentof dialogue systems that understand language as it unfolds, taking pragmatic factorsinto account early in the recognition process.
By designing with both fields in mindwe hope to strengthen the long tradition of cross-fertilization between the disciplines(e.g., Brennan 1991), particularly for task- or game-oriented systems and domains, witha visual component.We identified four important features to build into the domain.
First, the languageproduced should be completely unscripted: Participants should be able to perform thetask with a general description of what to do (e.g., Give instructions on how to make themap on the screen look like the map in your hand) and zero prior examples of what tosay.
For psycholinguistics, this makes the language natural speech rather than speechthat is restricted by the instructions or by prior examples.
For dialogue systems, thismakes the language ?untrained?
rather than the result of careful training, meaning thatsystems will be processing language that is representative of what speakers are likelyto produce when they use the system, especially without extensive training.
Second,470Aist et al Fruit Carts Domain and Corpusthe language should be fairly well constrained by context.
For psycholinguistics, thismakes the language more straightforward to analyze and also more directly tied to thevisual context and thus amenable to ?visual world?
studies that use eye movements toexamine real-time production (Griffin and Bock 2000) and comprehension (Tanenhauset al 1995).
For dialogue systems, this makes the language more amenable to automaticprocessing and also facilitates the integration of different types of knowledge into therecognition process.
Third, it should be possible to vary the difficulty of the tasks.
Forpsycholinguistics, this makes hypotheses about the effect of task difficulty on languageproduction amenable to study.
For dialogue systems, this allows the resulting corporato have a combination of relatively easy tasks (?low-hanging fruit?)
and more difficultNLP challenges.
Fourth, the domain should support the collection of dialogues that areseparable into partially or semi-independent subdialogues, with limited need for ref-erence to previous subdialogues.
For psycholinguistics, this makes each subdialogue aseparate trial, allowing for analyses where trials are treated as random effects in mixed-effect regression models or repeated measures in ANOVAs.
For dialogue systems, thislimits the likelihood that errors in processing one subdialogue will spill over andaffect processing of subsequent subdialogues.
For both research areas, this separabilityconstraint enables within-subject experiments with each subdialogue as a trial.In purpose and approach, Fruit Carts is most similar to the Map Task (Andersonet al 1991); both are simultaneously a set of experiments on language and a corpusused for developing language processing systems.
Map Task dialogues ?are unscripted[but] the corpus as a whole comprises a large, carefully controlled elicitation exercise?
(Anderson et al 1991, page 352) that has been used inmany computational endeavors aswell.
Fruit Carts was guided by our twin goals of furthering the development of spokenlanguage systems, and providing a psycholinguistic test bed in which to test specifichypotheses about human language production.
Fruit Carts differs from Map Task interms of dynamic object properties and in terms of the information available to thespeaker and hearer.
In the Map Task, objects have fixed properties that differ betweengiver and follower, yet remain constant while the path is constructed.
In Fruit Carts,objects have properties that can be changed: position, angle, and color.
This allows fora wide variety of linguistic behavior which in turn supports detailed exploration ofcontinuous understanding by humans and machines.
In the Map Task, the participants?screens differ, whereas in Fruit Carts the speaker and hearer share the same visualcontext, which simplifies the analysis and interpretation of results (Figure 1).2.
Fruit Carts Domain and TasksThe Fruit Carts domain has three screen areas: amap, an object bin, and a controls panel.Each area was designed in part to elicit the types of expressions that require continuousunderstanding to approximate human behavior such as progressive restriction of areference set throughout the utterance.The map contains named regions divided by solid lines, with three flags as land-marks.
The region names did not appear on the screen, to preclude use of spelling inreferring expressions (the C in Central Park).
Names were chosen to be phoneticallydistinct.
To support progressive restriction of potential regions, regions whose initialportions overlap are adjacent (Morn identifies Morningside and Morningside Heights)and some regions have flags and others not (put the square on the flag in... identifiesthe regions with flags.)
No compass is displayed, in an attempt to limit the directionselicited to up, down, left, and right and not north, south, and so on.471Computational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 3Figure 1Example initial and final configurations for Fruit Carts domain and corpus.
The region nameswere available to both director and actor (on paper) but were not shown on screen.
The finalconfiguration shown is the actual screen after the five dialogues from the participant whosethird, fourth, and fifth dialogues are shown in Appendix A.The object bin contains fruits and carts, by analogy with food vendor carts (e.g., hotdog stands).
The fruits are avocados, bananas, cucumbers, grapefruits, and tomatoes,all botanically fruits.
We chose fruits because they were nameable, especially with alabel, and visually different from the carts.
The carts are either squares or triangles,in two sizes, with an optional tag that for squares is either a diamond or a heart andfor triangles is either a star or a circle.
Adjectives (e.g., large, small) are commonlyused in natural language descriptions and there is a growing body of psycholinguisticresearch, mostly with scripted utterances, that has used adjectives to investigate real-time language processing (Sedivy et al 1999; Brown-Schmidt, Campana, and Tanenhaus2005).
Here, to support progressive restriction of potential carts, each component is easyto name but the entire shape requires a complex description rather than a prenominalmodifier?or at least strongly prefers one, as no examples to the contrary were observedin the Fruit Carts corpus described later in this article.
That is, whereas a square withstripes could be either the square with stripes or the striped square, a square with a diamondon the corner is the square with a diamond on the corner but not *the corner-diamonded square.The controls panel contains left and right rotation arrows and six paint colors (black,brown, orange, blue, pink, and purple) chosen to be distinct from the colors of the fruit.Five tasks are included in Fruit Carts, all performed by using a mouse.
To CHOOSEa cart, the user clicks on it.
To PLACE it on the map, the user drags it there.
To PAINTthe cart, the user clicks on the desired color.
Painting is a uniformly easy control task.To ROTATE the cart, the user presses and holds down the left or right rotation button.472Aist et al Fruit Carts Domain and CorpusThe goal of the rotation tool was to allow arbitrary rotations and to elicit utterancesthat were in response to visual feedback, such as rotate it a little to the right, more, stop.Finally, to FILL the cart, the user drags fruit to it.3.
Fruit Carts CorpusFor the dual goals of gathering a corpus of utterances for dialogue system research, andtesting the hypothesis that object complexity modulates referential strategy in humanlanguage production, we designed a set of goal maps that systematically manipulated:POSITION.
Each cart was in a high-codability ?easy?
position, such as centered on a flagor in a region; or a low-codability ?hard?
position, such as off-center.HEADING.
Each cart was at an ?easy?
angle, an integer multiple of 45 degrees from itsoriginal orientation; or a ?hard?
angle, a non-multiple of 45 degrees.CONTENTS.
Each cart contained an ?easy?
set of objects, fruit of the same type, such asthree tomatoes; or a ?hard?
set of objects, such as two bananas and a grapefruit.COLOR.
Each cart was painted a uniformly ?easy?
color to provide a control condition.One person (the director) gave directions to the other (the actor) on how to carryout the task.
The director wore a headset microphone that collected speech data; theactor in this set-up wore a head-mounted eye-tracker that collected eye movements.The director (a subject) sat just behind the actor (a confederate); both viewed the samescreen.
Twelve subjects participated, each of whom specified twenty objects to place onthe map; thus, a total of 240 dialogues were collected.
The recordings were transcribedword-for-word by a professional transcription service that also provided sentenceboundaries.
The corpus has been labeled for referential strategy at the utterance level(Aist et al 2005) and subsequently with referring expressions, spatial relations, andactions in order to support word-by-word incremental interpretation (Gallo et al 2007);see Appendix A.4.
Analysis with Respect to Desired FeaturesHow well does the Fruit Carts domain meet the desired features described earlier?1.
Unscripted.
Subjects were generally able to complete the task with only the instruc-tions to make the screen match their paper map, and no prior examples of what to say,although one subject systematically did not issue instructions to paint the shapes.2.
Constrained.
Generally speaking, subjects used the language we expected, such assquare, triangle, and so forth, or high-frequency synonyms such as box for a square cart(from the first dialogue of the participant in Appendix A, omitted for space) or dot fora circle tag (Appendix A, [D3]).
There were examples of participants using unexpectedexpressions, such as calling an avocado a lime, despite the on-screen label.
Yet overallthe language was well constrained by the context.3.
Support for varying of task difficulty.
As the Fruit Carts corpus showed, location,heading, and contents of carts can be systematically varied; later corpora, outsidethe scope of this article, have varied the number of carts placed together in order toconstruct simple or compound objects, in order to test the hypothesis that higher-level473Computational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 3task and goal knowledge (e.g.
a tower is being built from several blocks) modulateslanguage production, and to support further dialogue system research.4.
Support for collection of semi-independent subdialogues.
Here the Fruit Cartsdomain excels.
Due to the presence of multiple separate objects and regions, differentsubdialogues can make use of different objects, regions, properties, and so forth.
Bycontrast, a domain revolving around construction of a single complex target, such as alandscaping plan, would have licensed substantial amounts of reference to previouslyplaced objects including objects not in place at the time the dialogue began?makingsubdialogues dependent on each other in terms of accuracy, correctness, and so forth.As Appendix A illustrates, these Fruit Carts data contain relatively few such references.This is analogous to the difference between a math exercise set that contains severalindependent exercises, and a set where each exercise builds on previous answers.5.
Use in ResearchFor dialogue systems research, the Fruit Carts domain has already been useful in de-veloping dialogue systems that understand language continuously while taking prag-matics into account.
For example, using Fruit Carts, incorporating pragmatic feedbackabout the visual world early in the parsing process was shown to substantially improveparsing efficiency as well as allowing parsing decisions to accurately reflect the visualworld (Aist et al 2006).
Also using Fruit Carts, a dialogue system using continuousunderstanding was shown to be faster than, and preferred to, a counterpart that used atraditional pipeline architecture but was otherwise identical (Aist et al 2007).For psycholinguistic research, Fruit Carts has also been used for studying therelationship between bi-clausal structure and theme complexity (Gallo et al 2008) andtesting hypotheses regarding the relationship of information in a message, resourcelimitations, and sentence production (Gallo, Jaeger, and Smyth 2008).6.
Discussion and ConclusionsFruit Carts also has a number of other advantages as well as some limitations.First, Fruit Carts provides ample temporary or local ambiguity in its utterances, acentral challenge for continuous understanding systems and a classic target of researchin psycholinguistics (for a review see Altmann [1998]).
In a typical sequence such as okaytake a ... small triangle with a dot on the corner (Appendix A, [D3]), most of the contentwords and some of the function words serve to resolve local ambiguity:okay take... ?
uniquely identifies an action...a ... small... ?
restricts (partially disambiguates) referential domain to half of the shapes...triangle... ?
further restricts the referential domain to the triangles...with... ?
further restricts the referential domain to carts with tags...a dot... ?
further restricts the referential domain to carts with circles...on the corner ?
uniquely identifes one of the twenty cartsLikewise, flag in right ... um ... side of the uh ... flag in pine tree mountain [D5] restrictsregions to flagged regions.474Aist et al Fruit Carts Domain and CorpusSecond, Fruit Carts also elicits substantial variation in referential strategy.
Someutterances could be grounded independent of context, up to pronominal reference.
Forexample, the hypothetical utterance Move a large plain square to the flag in Central Parkhas a fully specified action, object, and goal, as do rotate it about 45 degrees (Appendix A,[D4]), and and um make that orange [D5].
We labeled this category ?all-at-once.?
Forother utterances, grounding relied on the surrounding context?dialogue and/or task.For example, um a little to the left [D4] contains a direction (left) but might rely on thelast action to identify the intended action as rotation or movement, and on the selectedshape on the screen to identify the object.
We labeled this category ?continuous.
?Some utterances exhibited ?both?
all-at-once and continuous properties, or propertiesof ?neither?
category.
The continuous utterances contained 21% fewer words (mean,8.72 vs. 6.85) than the all-at-once and contained shorter words, too (mean, 3.95 lettersvs.
3.74).
About one-third of the utterances were labeled as ?continuous?
; speakersproduced more continuous utterances as task experience increased (Aist et al 2005).Finally, Fruit Carts is relatively abstract: The carts are basic shapes such as squaresand triangles, and the fruit are chosen for language research purposes.
On the one hand,this is desirable because it reduces the possibility of confounding effects from priorknowledge.
On the other hand, it would be interesting for future work to extend FruitCarts-style domains to more realistic object construction and placement tasks.Appendix A: Example DialoguesReferential strategy.
These dialogues [D3]?
[D5] are the third, fourth, and fifth dia-logues from one subject, screen one.
For conciseness, ?...?
concatenates some adjacentutterances.
All-at-once sections are marked in bold and continuous sections in italics.
[D3] okay take a ... small triangle with a dot on the cornerand ... um ... put it ... it should be in um ... kinda the uh ... center right side of morningsideheightsuh morningside heights ... oh ... um a little further in ... uh ... towards the um oh wait a little backsorry ... uh that?s goodand then rotate it to the right until the l- hypotenuse is str- fa- yeah like that <laughter>and then make that blueand put a uh grapefruit in it so thatit ... it?s touching the left side but sticking out of the topoh it should be inside the triangle and touchingum a little ... over ... or down and over a little bit ... uh yeah that?s goodum <breath> ... now ... uh[D4] take a square ... and put it in um ... oceanview terraceand pretty much in the centerum i don?t know which one it i- i guess the s- try the smaller oneum and then uhrotate it about 45 degreesum ... oh ... like one more turn ... yeahum and make that ... pink475Computational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 3and then put a uh tomato ... in the ... um a little to the left ...okaygood ... um ... it ... i?m not sure if it should be a bigger one that triangle or notum you can try the bigger triangle ... i mean not the bigger triangle the bigger square ... i thinkmaybe it should be the ... yeah i think it should be the bigger square<mumble> ... put the yeah right there[D5] and then um ... and put ... um <breath> ... <mumble> ... then put uh get a uh ...<mumble>take the uh large triangle with the starand um ... put that ... um to the ... right ... um ... side of the uh ... flag in pine tree mountainer the right sideand ... <laughter> um down a littleum ... then rotate it so that ... the ... the hypotenuse is ... almost ... horizontal but ... tilted alittle sli- like one more rotat- yeahand um make that orangeum maybe a little closer to the flagand down ... yeah that should be goodkay um and then put a uh tomato in the right ... er in the left corner and then a cucumber inthe right corner of itum ... the tomato should be a l- er um ... not ... quite ... in the corner th- yeah that?s good and thecucumber should be a little downa little more yeah um oh wait that?s a little too much ... uh that sh- um that?s goodokay ... that?s it <laughter> ... <laughter>oh you wanna see this ... <laughter>i think that?s good ... okay <laughter>Incremental disambiguation.
This example, adapted fromGallo et al (2007), showsannotation to support disambiguation, here, in the small box in Morningside.
Theseare word-level annotations in the smallest possible semantic units, marked at thepoint of disambiguation with no lookahead, and following the speaker?s intentions(Gallo et al 2007).theanchor(A1)definite(A1)smallsize(A1, small)boxobjectType(A1, square)inanchor(A2)spatialRelation(A2, inside)location(A1, A2)476Aist et al Fruit Carts Domain and CorpusMorningsideanchor(A3)name(A3)objectReferent(A3, MorningsideRegion3)ground(A2, A3)Message structure.
The following example, adapted from Gallo et al (2008), showsannotation for the purpose of exploring the link between message structure andcomplexity of the theme.original: take a square with a ... square with a heart on the cornerclean: take a square with a heart on the corneraction: SELECTverb: taketheme: a square with a heart on the cornertheme disfluency: Yestheme pause: YesAcknowledgmentsThis material is based upon work supportedby the National Science Foundation undergrant 0328810.
Any opinions, findings, andconclusions or recommendations expressedin this material are those of the author(s)and do not necessarily reflect the viewsof the National Science Foundation.
Thispublication was partially supported bygrant HD 27206 from the NIH.
The contentsof this report are solely the responsibilityof the authors and do not necessarilyrepresent the official views of the NIH.ReferencesAist, G. S., J. Allen, E. Campana,L.
Galescu, C. Go?mez Gallo, S. Stoness,M.
Swift, and M. K. Tanenhaus.
2006.Software architectures for incrementalunderstanding of human speech.In Proceedings of the 9th InternationalConference on Spoken Language Processing,pages 1922?1925, Pittsburgh, PA.Aist, G. S., J. Allen, E. Campana,C.
Go?mez Gallo, S. Stoness, M. Swift,and M. K. Tanenhaus.
2007.
Incrementaldialogue system faster than and preferredto its nonincremental counterpart.In Proceedings of the 29th AnnualMeeting of the Cognitive Science Society,pages 761?766, Nashville, TN.Aist, G. S., E. Campana, J. Allen, M. Rotondo,M.
Swift, and M. K. Tanenhaus.
2005.Variations along the contextual continuumin task-oriented speech.
In Proceedings ofthe 27th Annual Meeting of the CognitiveScience Society, pages 79?84, Stresa.Altmann, G. T. M. 1998.
Ambiguity insentence processing.
Trends in CognitiveSciences, 2(4):146?152.Anderson, A., M. Bader, E. Bard, E. Boyle,G.
M. Doherty, G. M. Garrod, S. Isard,J.
Kowtko, J. McAllister, J. Miller, C. Sotillo,H.
S. Thompson, and R. Weinert.
1991.The HCRC map task corpus.
Languageand Speech, 34:351?366.Brennan, S. E. 1991.
Conversation with andthrough computers.
User Modeling andUser-Adapted Interaction, 1:67?86.Brown-Schmidt, S., E. Campana, andM.
K. Tanenhaus.
2005.
Real-timereference resolution in a referentialcommunication task.
In J. C. Trueswelland M. K. Tanenhaus, editors, ProcessingWorld-situated Language: Bridging theLanguage-as-action and Language-as-productTraditions.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA,pages 153?171.Cook, S. W., T. F. Jaeger, andM.
K. Tanenhaus.2009.
Producing less preferred structures:More gestures, less fluency.
In Proceedingsof the 31st Annual Meeting of the CognitiveScience Society, pages 62?67, Amsterdam.DeVault, D. and M. Stone.
2004.
Interpretingvague utterances in context.
In Proceedingsof COLING, pages 1247?1253, Geneva.Gabsdil, M. and O.
Lemon.
2004.
Combiningacoustic and pragmatic features to predict477Computational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 3recognition performance in spokendialogue systems.
In Proceedings of the42nd Annual Meeting of the Association ofComputational Linguistics, pages 79?84,Barcelona.Gallo, C. Go?mez, G. Aist, J. Allen,W.
de Beaumont, S. Coria,W.
Gegg-Harrison, J. Paulo Pardal, andM.
Swift.
2007.
Annotating continuousunderstanding in a multimodal dialoguecorpus.
In Proceedings of the 2007 Workshopon the Semantics and Pragmatics of Dialogue,pages 75?82, Rovereto.Gallo, C. Go?mez, T. F. Jaeger, J. Allen, andM.
Swift.
2008.
Production in a multimodalcorpus: How speakers communicatecomplex actions.
In Proceedings of theLanguage Resources and EvaluationConference, pages 2917?2920, Marrakech.Gallo, C. Go?mez, T. F. Jaeger, and R. Smyth.2008.
Incremental syntactic planningacross clauses.
In Proceedings of the 30thAnnual Meeting of the Cognitive ScienceSociety, pages 845?850, Washington, DC.Griffin, Z. M. and K. Bock.
2000.
What theeyes say about speaking.
PsychologicalScience, 11:274?279.Schuler, W., S. Wu, and Lane Schwartz.2009.
A framework for fast incrementalinterpretation during speech decoding.Computational Linguistics, 35(3):313?343.Sedivy, J. E., M. K. Tanenhaus, C. G.Chambers, and G. N. Carlson.
1999.Achieving incremental interpretationthrough contextual representation:Evidence from the processing ofadjectives.
Cognition, 71:109?147.Tanenhaus, M. K., M. J. Spivey-Knowlton,K.
M. Eberhard, and J. E. Sedivy.
1995.Integration of visual and linguisticinformation in spoken languagecomprehension.
Science, 268:1632?1634.Viethen, J. and R. Dale.
2006.
Algorithmsfor generating referring expressions:Do they do what people do?
In Proceedingsof the 4th International Conference onNatural Language Generation, pages 63?70,Sydney.478
