Book ReviewsQuantitative Syntax AnalysisReinhard Ko?hler(Trier University)Berlin and Boston: De Gruyter Mouton (Quantitative Linguistics series, edited byReinhard Ko?hler, Gabriel Altmann, and Peter Grzybek, volume 65), 2012, x+224 pp,hardbound, ISBN 978-3-11-027219-2, e99.95, $140.00Reviewed byChunshan Xu?
and Haitao Liu?
?Anhui University of Architecture,?Zhejiang UniversityQuantitative linguistics (QL) is a discipline of linguistics, that, using real texts, studieslanguages with quantitative mathematical approaches, aiming to precisely describeand explain, with a system of mathematical laws, the operation and development oflanguage systems.
Later in this review, we will address the relationship between QLand computational linguistics.
Quantitative Syntax Analysis is a recent work on QL byReinhard Ko?hler that not only provides a comprehensive introduction to the work of QLon the syntactic level, but also sketches the theoretical grounds, the research paradigm,and the ultimate goals of quantitative linguistics in general.?
2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsIn the first chapter, Ko?hler points to the vital role of syntax in language: Syntaxenables language users to code structures instead of ideas as wholes.
A text embodies acomplex cognitive formation and meets several basic requirements in human communi-cation, which implies that language is not autonomous, but a dynamic communicativesystem used by human beings.
Hence, the ultimate understanding and explanationof syntax (and the whole language system) depends on usage-based investigation ofthe cognitive basis and the functional requirements of language, which is somewhatneglected in many mainstream syntactic studies.
Even in those cases where explanatorypower is acknowledged as the ultimate goal of linguistic investigation, the necessaryknowledge is still required as to what a scientific linguistic theory is and how sucha theory may be built.
So far, it is rare for quantitative means to be used in syntacticstudy.
One reason is that many syntacticians are too addicted to the enshrined tradi-tional paradigms that have been proven to be somewhat inadequate when it comes toprocessing real texts.
And that is why in computational linguistics, ?devout executorsof the belief in strictly formal methods as opposed to statistical ones do not have anychance to succeed?
(page 4).The second chapter, entitled ?The Quantitative Analysis of Language and Text,?begins with an explanation of the difference between quantitative linguistics and theformal branches of linguistics that have once been widely used in computationallinguistics: QL is concerned with the quantitative properties important for under-standing the development and the operation of linguistic system, whereas the formalbranches of linguistics use only qualitative mathematical means and formal logics tomodel structural properties of language, overlooking, in most cases, the aspects ofsystems that exceed structure, viz., functions, dynamics, and processes.
Ko?hler pointsout that the successes of modern natural sciences (the exact, testable statements, theprecise predictions, and the copious applications) all derive from their instruments andtheir advanced models.
This implies that these instruments and models, of which theComputational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 3quantitative parts of mathematics (probability theory and statistics, function theory,differential equations) are indispensable ingredients, are worth integrating into lin-guistics, which is the aim of QL.Chapter 3, entitled ?Empirical Analysis and Mathematical Modeling,?
reviewsthe important works of quantitative syntactic analysis.
In the first section, Ko?hlergives a long list of the important syntactic units and properties defined within theframeworks of both phrase structure syntax and dependency syntax; this reflects thefact that researchers in both fields have been engaged in some fruitful quantitativestudies.
In Section 3.2, he defines quantitation of syntactic concepts as counting theobjects under study, because syntactic analysis investigates only discrete objects.
Sec-tion 3.4 is a detailed review of the important works on various syntactic phenom-ena within the frameworks of both phrase structure syntax and dependency syntax,including sentence length, probabilistic grammars and probabilistic parsing, Markovchains, Frumkina?s law on the syntactic level, distribution of dependency distance, anddistribution of dependency types, and so on.
These quantitative models, which havebeen empirically corroborated with real texts, or sometimes treebanks and dictionaries(of various languages), can be linguistically, cognitively, or functionally interpreted?a rare achievement in the past statistical investigations of language.
Apart from themodels concerning probabilistic grammars and Markov chains, which have alreadybeen widely used in computational linguistics, there are some other works that mayalso have practical applications in various fields.
For example, the mathematical modelof sentence length, which describes the probability of neighboring length classes asa function of the probability of the first of the two given classes, may contribute topractical applications such as text classification and the measurement of text compre-hensibility, and so forth.
The frequency studies of word and syntactic constructionshave obtained many results useful for language teaching, the construction of parsingalgorithms, and estimation of effort of (automatic) rule learning, and more.
The syntacticstudies on Frumkina?s law, which is concerned with the number of text blocks with xoccurrences of a given syntactic element or category, may benefit certain types of com-putational text processing if specific constructions or categories can be differentiatedand found automatically by their particular distributions.
One advantage of QL is thatall its findings are mathematically formulated and linguistically interpreted, which atleast makes it possible to be used in constructing models necessary for computationallinguistics.In Chapter 4, Ko?hler introduces his efforts to build a real ?linguistic theory,?
forhe believes that ?there is not yet any elaborated linguistic theory in the sense of thephilosophy of science?
(page 21).
Building such a theory begins with ?plausible hy-potheses,?
which may become laws when sufficiently attested and may then be furtherintegrated into a coherent system.
This is the process of setting up a scientific theory, assuccinctly summarized in the title of this chapter: ?Hypotheses, Laws, and Theories.
?The first section of this chapter shows the first step toward a scientific linguistictheory, the process in which ?plausible hypotheses?
are deduced, interpreted, andempirically attested before finally becoming laws.
In Section 2, Ko?hler introduces thefoundation of his synergetic linguistics, which views language as a dynamic, self-organizing, and self-regulating system where the so-called enslaving principle and orderparameters are the crucial elements.
On this basis, the author builds a synergetic syn-tactic model in Section 4.2.7 with certain modeling principles.
Within the framework ofphrase-structure syntax, eight properties of syntactic constructions and four inventoriesare chosen to build this model, which are linked together by laws resulting from theverified hypotheses and subject to the regulation of some order parameters.696Book ReviewsQuantitative linguistics, which is an unfamiliar field of study for many linguists,depends heavily on real texts and mathematical tools.
Therefore we believe it is worth-while to briefly clarify the differences and the relations between QL and corpus lin-guistics, on one hand, and between QL and computational linguistics, on the otherhand.
In comparison with quantitative linguistics, corpus linguistics is in fact more of aresearch methodology rather than an independent linguistic discipline, reflecting a shiftof focus from competence to performance, from introspection to empirical study.
Thismakes both the common ground and the difference between corpus linguistics and QL,which aims to quantitatively and mathematically explore, on the basis of real texts andtreebanks, the fundamental laws governing the structure and evolution of language,and integrate them into a systematic theory capable of explanation and prediction.Computational linguistics (CL) is an interdisciplinary field investigating the struc-ture of natural languages from a formal, mathematical, and computational point ofview.
Compared with QL, CL seems to be more interested in research that can havedirect applications in such fields as language understanding, language generation,machine translation, and so forth, than in the explanation of language structure, op-eration, and evolution.
Traditionally, the mathematical models used in CL are derivedfrom the linguistic theories via the process of formalization.
Due to the limitations ofthe qualitative mathematical models, however, the statistical models, most of whichso far fail linguistic interpretations, have recently become dominant in the field ofcomputational linguistics.
That is perhaps why Shuly Wintner (2009, page 641), in a?Last Words?
article in this journal, called for ?the return of linguistics to computationallinguistics,?
implying that the advances in the field of CL may ultimately lie in theadvances in the understanding of language itself.Wintner?s appeal does reflect the present situation of computational linguistics: adiscipline in which many works are heavily oriented towards engineering and weaklygrounded in linguistics.
The formal linguistic models seem now outshone by the purelystatistical paradigms, as the result of their inadequacy in processing real-world lan-guages.
Of course, this means no renouncement of the value of the traditional formalmodels.
But it is obvious that considerable updating and enrichment are necessary forthese formal models if they are to play significant roles in the future.
In this regard,QL, which has a solid linguistic foundation, may help by providing quantitative cues(which are linguistically interpretable) to improve the performance in NLP, as has beenillustrated in the case of probabilistic grammar that ingeniously integrates quantitative,statistical devices into qualitative linguistic models.
QL has provided some useful mod-els for CL.
And it is reasonable to believe that it will continue to do so in the future,though some of its achievements seem now not ready to be directly used in CL.But perhaps QL can do more than that.
Though QL has not yet drawn much atten-tion from computational linguistics, it is potentially a proper answer to Wintner?s callfor the return of linguistics to computational linguistics.
CL aims to replicate in comput-ers the patterns of human language behavior, whereas QL endeavors to mathematicallyand quantitatively reveal the laws and the principles that govern human languagebehavior?this is a relation between theory and practice.
The success of a scientificdiscipline is usually based on precise models that are well-grounded in profound under-standing of the object of study.
Computational linguistics is no exception.
Two featuresof QL are hence noteworthy.
One is that it aims to explain, within a certain linguisticframework, the operation and the evolution of language by uncovering the systematiccognitive and functional regulations that underlie human languages.
The other is thatit tries to mathematically model, with systematic and precise quantitative laws, theseregulations and the resulting mechanism of language.
In view of these two features, we697Computational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 3believe that the success of QL will somehow and somewhat boost the studies in the fieldof CL and that the communication between QL and CL is and will be not only possiblebut also mutually beneficial.
This is why we hold that it is worthwhile to recommendthis book to researchers in the field of computational linguistics, a book presenting apanorama of QL in general and discoveries on the syntactic level in particular.ReferencesWintner, Shuly.
2009.
What scienceunderlies natural languageengineering?
Computational Linguistics,35(4):641?644.Chunshan Xu is an assistant professor at Anhui University of Architecture, China.
His researchinterests include syntactic parsing, syntactic complexity, and quantitative syntactic study.
Xu?se-mail address is adinxu@yahoo.com.cn.
Haitao Liu is a Qiushi distinguished professor of linguis-tics and applied linguistics at Zhejiang University, China.
His current research interests includecomputational and quantitative linguistics, dependency syntax, and linguistic complex networks.Liu?s address is School of International Studies, Zhejiang University ?
CHN-310058, Hangzhou,China; e-mail: lhtzju@gmail.com.698
