Book Reviewsdiscourse.cppO.S.
le Si (edited by Aure?lie Herbelot)University of CambridgeBerlin: Peer Press, 2011, 55 pp; paperbound, ISBN 978-3-00-33516-7, e9.00, or freeon-line at peerpress.de/discoursecpp.pdfReviewed byLori EmersonUniversity of Colorado at Boulderdiscourse.cpp is a short collection of computer-generated poetry edited by computationallinguist Aure?lie Herbelot.
The poetry was produced by a program, named O.S.
le Si,that was derived from Herbelot?s research on context-based ontology extraction fromtext (Herbelot and Copestake 2006; Herbelot 2009).
In this case, Herbelot provided200,000 pages fromWikipedia for the program to parse and output lists of items whosecontext is similar to words such as gender, love, family, and illness.
For example, Herbelotexplains that content in the opening piece titled ?The Creation?
was ?selected out of alist of 10,000 entries.
Each entry was produced by automatically looking for taxonomicrelationships in Wikipedia?
; and, for the piece titled ?Gender,?
she chose the ?twenty-five best contexts for man and woman in original order.
No further changes?
(page 47).The collection is, then, as we are told on the back cover, ?about things that people sayabout things.
It was written by a computer.??
2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsPoets?or, for the sake of those still attached to the notion of an author whointentionally delivers well-crafted, expressive writing, ?so-called poets?
?have beenexperimentingwith producingwritingwith the aid of digital computer algorithms sinceMax Bense and Theo Lutz first experimented with computer-generated writing in 1959(Funkhouser 2007).
The best-known English-language example is the 1984 collectionof poems The Policeman?s Beard is Half-Constructed by the artificial intelligence programRacter (a collection which, it was later discovered, was heavily edited by Racter creatorsWilliam Chamberlain and Thomas Etter).
discourse.cpp is yet another experiment intesting the capabilities of the computer and computer programmer to create not somuchcarefully and intentionally crafted, rhythmically or musically pleasing verse as broadlyrevealing poetry?poetry that is not meant to be close-read (most often to discover un-derlying authorial intent) but rather read as a collection of a kind of linguistic evidence.In this case, the collection provides evidence of trends in on-line human language usagewhich in turn, not surprisingly, provides evidence of certain prevailing cultural norms;for example, we can see quite clearly English-speaking, western culture?s continuedattachment to heteronormative gender roles in ?Gender?
(page 18):Woman Manman love ?
?win title?
marry man ?
love woman?
give birth ?
claim beOne of the questions this collection raises is this, however: If the craft of poetrywriting becomes more about programming and editing, and if the reader or critic doesComputational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 4not have access to the code or to all of the editorial decisions that created this collection,how, then, do we judge whether the computer-generated writing is successful or not?There?s no doubt that the piece ?Gender?
is provocative and revealing, but is it a ?good?poem?
Perhaps the collection teaches us that, with the ever-increasing intertwinementof human and digital computer that results in the displacement of the human as solereader?writer now that the computer is also a reader?writer alongside (and often incollaboration with) the human, these sorts of judgments of ?good?
and ?bad?
are nolonger appropriate.
Once the human is no longer the sole creator and no longer incontrol of the final artistic or literary artifact, then we are left to judge only the processin place of judging the product; with regard to discourse.cpp, it is a process we do nothave direct access to.Furthermore, as Herbelot rightly points out in the Editor?s Foreword, to a largeextent this experimentation with the computer as reader?writer also comes out of early20th century, avant-garde writing that similarly sought to undermine, if not displace,the individual intending author.
Dadaist Tristan Tzara, for instance, infamously wrote?TO MAKE A DADAIST POEM?
in 1920 (see Tzara 1924) in which he advocateswriting poetry by cutting out words from a newspaper article, randomly choosingthese words from a bag, and then appropriating these randomly chosen words tocreate a poem by ?an infinitely original author of charming sensibility.?
Tzara was,of course, being typically Dadaist in his tongue-in-cheek attitude; but he was also, Ibelieve, serious in his belief that the combination of appropriation and chance-basedmethods of producing text could produce original writing that simultaneously un-dermined the egotism of the author.
Insofar as discourse.cpp comes out of a lineageof experimental writing invested in chance-generated writing and, later, in exploitingcomputer technology as the latest means by which to produce such writing, it alsocomes out of a certain tradition of disingenuousness that comes along with this lineage.No matter how much Tzara and later authors of computer-generated writing soughtto remove the human-as-author, there was and still is no getting around the fact thathumans are deeply involved in the creation process?whether as cutters-and-pasters,programmers, or editors.
The collection, then, is a much more complex amalgam thaneven Herbelot seems willing to acknowledge, as discourse.cpp is evidence of the evenlydistributed reading and writing that took place between Herbelot and the programitself.ReferencesFunkhouser, Christopher.
2007.
PrehistoricDigital Poetry.
University of AlabamaPress, Tuscaloosa.Herbelot, Aure?lie.
2009.
Finding wordsubstitutions using a distributionalsimilarity baseline and immediate contextoverlap.
Proceedings of the Student Session ofthe 12th Conference of the European Chapter ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics,9 pages, Athens.Herbelot, Aure?lie and Ann Copestake.
2006.Acquiring ontological relationships fromWikipedia using RMRS.
Proceedings of theWorkshop on Web Content Mining withHuman Language Technologies, 10 pages,Athens, Georgia.Racter.
1984.
The Policeman?s Beard isHalf-Constructed: Computer Prose and Poetry.Warner Software / Warner Books,New York.Tzara, Tristan.
1924.
TO MAKE A DADAISTPOEM.
Reprinted in Seven Dada Manifestosand Lampisteries, translated by BarbaraWright.
Oneworld Classics, Richmond,UK, 2011.924Book ReviewsLori Emerson is an Assistant Professor in the Department of English at the University ofColorado at Boulder.
She writes on digital literature, experimental American and Canadianpoetry from the 20th and 21st century, history of computing, and media theory.
In additionto directing the Archeological Media Lab, she is currently working on several book projects,including a monograph, Reading Writing Interfaces: From the Bookbound to the Digital, and TheJohns Hopkins Guide to Digital Media and Textuality, co-edited withMarie-Laure Ryan and BenjaminRobertson (Johns Hopkins University Press, forthcoming Fall 2013).
Emerson?s e-mail address isLori.Emerson@colorado.edu.925
