Book ReviewsUnification Grammars?
2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsNissim Francez?
and Shuly Wintner?
(?Technion?Israel Institute of Technology and ?University of Haifa)Cambridge University Press, 2012, xii+312 pp; hardbound, ISBN 978-1-107-01417-6,$95.00Reviewed byTracy Holloway KingeBay Inc.Francez andWintner?s textbook on unification grammars is aimed at students interestedin computational linguistics who are at the advanced undergraduate or introductorygraduate level.
As stated by the authors, the book assumes a solid introductory coursein syntax and a year of undergraduate mathematics, but no programming experience;I agree with this assessment.
The book will also be of interest to anyone workingwith unification grammars?for example, an HPSG or LFG theoretician or grammarengineer, who wants to understand more about the mathematical underpinnings of thesystems they are working on; even without a strong mathematics background, largeportions of the book will be accessible for motivated readers with previous unificationgrammar experience.Although at first glance some readers may be intimidated by the technical depthof the book, the material is made accessible by its presentation style.
Concepts areintroduced in stages, with frequent references to earlier concepts and sections.
Eachconcept is introduced in prose, in relevant proofs, and by examples tied to linguisticissues, thereby reinforcing the material.
Exercises are provided throughout each chapterso that readers can check their understanding as they work through the material; manyof the exercises have answers provided in the back of the book.
Another strength of thebook is the detailed further-reading section at the end of each chapter: These providehistorical background as well as an introduction to more-advanced topics.The book comprises seven chapters, three appendices, the bibliography, and anindex.Chapter 1: ?Introduction.?
The introduction overviews several major issues in thesyntax of natural languages (e.g., parts of speech, subcategorization, control, long-distance dependencies, and coordination).
There is also an overview of formal lan-guages and context-free grammars.
These are then linked by a discussion of some of thearguments against natural languages being context-free.
Building on this discussion,mildly context-sensitive languages are introduced.
This chapter will serve as a reviewof relevant concepts for most readers.Chapter 2: ?Feature Structures.?
Feature structures are introduced as a way of ex-tending context-free grammars to express linguistic information, using examples fromagreement as motivation.
The connection between feature graphs, feature structures,abstract feature structures, and attribute-value matrices is presented in detail.
Specialattention is paid to reentrancies and cycles, two key issues in the formal and practicalunderstanding of feature structures.
Numerous graphical examples illustrate the formalproofs and help to provide the intuition behind the concepts and how they relate to oneanother.Computational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 2Chapter 3: ?Unification.?
Using the structures presented in Chapter 2, unification isintroduced as the mechanism to combine the information in two compatible featurestructures.
Again, graphical examples provide an intuitive view into the formalismsintroduced.
A simple, destructive algorithm for unification is introduced and linked tothe formal definitions (computational aspects of unification grammars are discussed indetail in Chapter 6).
Generalization is briefly discussed as the dual of unification.Chapter 4: ?Unification Grammars.?
In order to capture natural language phenomena,feature structures are extended to multirooted feature structures and then combinedwith unification to form unification grammars.
Grammar rules and derivations, alongwith the lexicon, are defined.
Comparisons to context-free grammars and their limita-tions are provided to further exemplify the formal power of unification grammars.Chapter 5: ?Linguistic Applications.?
The formalisms introduced in Chapters 2?4are then used to account for a variety of linguistic phenomena, including traditional?movement?
phenomena, by starting with a simple unification grammar for a fragmentof English and gradually extending it.
Examples are provided of where the grammarengineer must choose among different ways to formulate the grammar rules withinthe unification grammar formalism and how these different choices can reflect differentlinguistic generalizations as well as have different computational costs.Chapter 6: ?Computational Aspects of Unification Grammars.?
This chapter provides asolid overview of computational complexity and then discusses how unification gram-mars fit into the picture.
Issues with recognition and parsing are discussed.
Examplesare worked out in detail (e.g., showing relevant dotted rules) for context-free grammarsand are then extended to unification grammars.
This chapter could be skipped bythose focused on theoretical and formal aspects, but it provides a practical view ofthe repercussions of the formal issues introduced earlier and is directly relevant forcomputational linguists.There is a short concluding chapter.
The three appendices comprise a list of symbolsused in the book, a summary of preliminary mathematical notions, and solutions toselected exercises.In sum, this book will be an excellent textbook for computational linguistics classes,especially in programs that have a grammar engineering track or that want to build ona strong formal language program.
I also particularly recommend it for those workingwith unification grammars, especially with implementations of such grammars.Tracy Holloway King is a principal product manager with eBay?s search science team.
Previouslyshe focused on LFG grammar engineering and applications at The Palo Alto Research Center.
Heraddress is eBay Inc., 2065 Hamilton Ave, San Jose, CA 95125, USA; e-mail: tracyking@ebay.com.442
