Book ReviewsThe Structure of Scientific Articles: Applications to Citation Indexing?
2012 Association for Computational Linguisticsand SummarizationSimone Teufel(University of Cambridge)Stanford, CA: CSLI Publications (CSLI Studies in Computational Linguistics), 2010,xii+518 pp; hardbound, ISBN 978-1-57586-555-3, $70.00; paperbound,ISBN 978-1-57586-556-0, $32.50Reviewed byRobert E. MercerUniversity of Western OntarioDiscourse models have received significant attention in the computational linguisticscommunity with some important connections to the non-computational discourse com-munity.
More recently, the importance of discourse annotation has increased as modelsgenerated with supervised machine learning techniques are being used to annotate textautomatically.
A primary area for annotation is science.
The theme of Teufel?s book isan important contribution in these areas: discourse models, annotation schemes, andapplications.The book is a substantial work, approximately 450 pages of text and appendices.It extends Teufel?s Ph.D. thesis (Teufel 2000) with a decade of new work and updatedreferences.
The book is content-rich and meticulously written.
In addition to presentingTeufel?s discourse model, it also works as a good entry point into discourse models andannotation.
Because each chapter is structured with background, new material, and asummary, each chapter can be read somewhat independently.
Cross-references to otherparts of the book are carefully included where warranted.
This structure lends itselfto using the book as a reference for each of the subtopics or as an introduction to thesubject area as a whole, suitable as a textbook.Chapter 1 sets the stage for the rest of the book.
The author sets out her funda-mental assumptions and hypotheses.
The fundamental assumptions arise from threeobservations that she has made regarding the literature.
Scientific discourse containsdescriptions of positive and negative states, contains references to others?
contributions,and is the result of a rhetorical game intended to promote one?s contribution.
Chap-ter 2, on information retrieval and citation indexes, and Chapter 3, on summarization,provide the motivation for the main theme of the book: These two information-basedendeavors can be enhanced with automated tools that incorporate an understanding ofthe rhetorical aspects of science writing.Whereas Chapters 2 and 3 give an overview of current methodologies, Chapter 4,?New Types of Information Access,?
introduces two new techniques, rhetorical extractsand citation maps, that are suggested as information navigation methods enhanced byknowledge of the discourse that contains the information being accessed.
Rhetoricalextracts are snippets that can be tailored to user expertise and navigation task.
Citationmaps are interactive citation indexes that have their citation links augmented withrhetorical or sentiment information.Chapter 5 gives a detailed description of the five scientific text corpora thatare used in the research described throughout the book: computational linguistics,Computational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 2chemistry, genetics, cardiology, and agriculture.
The chapter focuses primarily on thecomputational linguistics corpus, on which most of the results in the book are based.SCIXML, Teufel?s markup language for science articles, is described.Chapter 6 contains an in-depth description of the Knowledge Claim DiscourseModel (KCDM).
Teufel gives reasons why the traditional discourse models are aban-doned in favor of her new model.
In addition to it being a shallow method, she pointsout the important aspects of KCDM (compared to Rhetorical Structure Theory): It istext-type-specific (scientific articles); no world knowledge is required; it has global (top-down) not local (bottom-up) relations; it is non-hierarchical (citation and summarizationapplications do not require a rich hierarchical structure).Chapter 7 presents three annotation schemes based on the KCDM: KnowledgeClaim Attribution (KCA), Citation Function Classification (CFC), and ArgumentativeZoning (AZ).
The background and purpose of the schemes are carefully laid out.
Theannotation guidelines (coding manuals) are given in Appendix C.Chapter 8 reports on the reliability studies that use human annotators and gaugethe quality of the annotation scheme using agreement among the annotators as a proxyfor this measure.
A good discussion of the measures of annotator agreement opens thechapter, followed by a detailed analysis of the four studies.
Three of the four studiesused three annotators, the other used 18 annotators.
All studies used the computationallinguistics corpus.Chapters 9 and 10 discuss the features that will be used by the machine implemen-tations of AZ, KCA, and CFC that are described in Chapter 11.
Chapter 9 provides acomprehensive discussion of the various embodiments of meta-discourse, the text thatconcerns itself with the dialogue between the author and the reader rather than content-bearing text.
Chapter 10 discusses the computable surface features that capture theimportant aspects of meta-discourse that are used by the automatic annotation methods.Chapter 11 then introduces the reader to the standard supervised machine-learningmethodology used to generate the statistical models that implement the automaticAZ, KCA, and CFC annotators.
Chapter 12 presents gold-standard, and extrinsic andsubjective evaluations of these automatic methods.
The gold standard is the human-annotated computational linguistics articles and the extrinsic task is rhetorical extracts.Chapter 13 investigates the universality of the KCDM.
The earlier chapters?
re-sults were based on the computational linguistics corpus.
This chapter considers thedisciplines of chemistry, computer science, biology, astrophysics, and legal texts.
Twoissues surface: the need to modify the original KCDM slightly, and the move from anabsolutely domain-knowledge-free annotation to one which includes some high-levelfacts about research practices in the discipline.Chapter 14 pushes the frontiers of potential uses of the KCDM methodology:support tools for scientific writing, automatic review generation, scientific summarygeneration that moves beyond simple sentence extraction methods and summaries ofmultiple scientific documents, as well as integration of automatic AZ into a large-scaledigital library.
Chapter 15 provides the conclusion.
In the first section it recapitulates themain themes of the book.
This section also nicely serves as an introduction to the book,if so desired.
Section 2 lists a number of areas that could lead to an improved automaticsystem.The four appendices contain a list of the CmpLG-D articles, the DTD for SCIXML,the annotation guidelines, and a catalog of lexical items and patterns useful in thediscourse setting.The book makes an important and powerful statement in the field of discoursemodeling and annotation, and provides an important body of work to which other444Book Reviewsresearchers can add or compare their work.
I think it is important to keep in mindthe following few points while reading the book: First, Teufel comments that she isinterested in a discourse model for the experimental sciences, yet her focus for much ofthe book is a corpus of computational linguistics papers.
Also, the discourse model pro-posed is based on knowledge claims and rhetorical moves.
This catholic view of whatis science and the narrow view of structure may surprise some readers given the titleof the book.
Next, some of the fundamental decisions regarding the discourse modelare heavily influenced by the requirements of the two motivational topics, leading oneto question the full generality of the discourse model.
As well, the range of rhetoric inscience writing may be broader than anticipated by Teufel?s model?for example, thestyle found in the geology discipline is more cumulative than critical (Heather Graves,personal communication).
And finally, some researchers (White 2010) argue that thedomain-knowledge-free annotation dictum, although loosened slightly by Teufel, mayneed to be further relaxed in order to produce a more accurate gold standard, regardlessof the automatic system?s access to the same domain knowledge.ReferencesTeufel, Simone.
2000.
ArgumentativeZoning: Information Extraction fromScientific Text.
Ph.D. thesis, Universityof Edinburgh.White, Barbara.
2010.
Identifying sources ofinter-annotator variation: Evaluating twomodels of argument analysis.
In Proceedingsof the Fourth Linguistic Annotation Workshop(LAW IV), Uppsala, pages 132?136.Robert E. Mercer is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Western Ontario.
Hisresearch interests include argumentation in science writing and annotation.
Mercer?s e-mailaddress is mercer@csd.uwo.ca.445
