Book ReviewsInteractive Multi-Modal Question-Answering?
2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAntal van den Bosch?
and Gosse Bouma?
(editors)(?Tilburg University and ?University of Groningen)Berlin: Springer (Theory and Applications of Natural Language Processing series,edited by Eduard Hovy), 2011, xii+279 pp; hardbound, ISBN 978-3-642-17524-4,$124.00; e-book, ISBN 978-3-642-17525-1; paperbound, $24.95 or ?24.95 to membersof subscribing institutionsReviewed byConstantin Ora?sanUniversity of WolverhamptonProcessing and presentation of multimodal information was one of the important di-rections pursued by researchers in the areas related to information processing andmanagement in the first decade of this century (Stock and Zancanaro 2005; Maragos,Potamianos, and Gros 2008; Lalanne et al 2009).
The Interactive Multimodal Informa-tion eXtraction (IMIX) Programme, a research program that ran between 2004 and 2009and was funded by the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO), ad-hered to this direction of research.
This book contains a collection of articles describingresearch carried out in the IMIX Programme.
Given the large scale of the program, thebook covers only parts of it, arguably the most important ones: question answering,(spoken) dialogue systems, and human?machine interaction.The book is organized into four parts and an epilogue.
The first part introducesthe IMIX Programme and the demonstrator developed by it.
The main purpose ofthe program was to bring together research groups from the Netherlands to build aninteractive multimodal question answering (QA) system that is able to answer gen-eral encyclopedic medical questions.
The IMIX Programme funded seven individualprojects that worked in a common field and contributed to a common demonstrator.The fact that these projects ran largely independently is also apparent from the bookbecause there are few links between its chapters.The architecture of the demonstrator is presented in the second article of the book,?The IMIX Demonstrator?
(Dennis Hofs, Boris van Schooten, and Rieks op den Akker).The demonstrator showed users a fully functional system and allowed them to askquestions using text, speech, and gestures.
The answers produced by the system werepresented in the form of text, speech, or images, and could be used in follow-up ques-tions.
The article features a detailed description of the architecture, as well as severalscreenshots and diagrams; these can be useful to researchers who want to find outmore about the demonstrator.
In addition to the technical details, there is an interestingdiscussion about the role of demonstrators in large projects and problems that need tobe addressed when building them.
I think this brief discussion could be very useful foranyone involved in a medium or large project that includes several research groups andneeds to build demonstrators.The second part of the book focuses on dialog managers and covers most of theinteraction discussed in this book.
First, the Vidiam (DIAlogue Management and theVIsual channel) project is described in the article entitled ?Corpus-Based Develop-ment of a Dialogue Manager for Multimodal Question Answering?
(Van Schooten andComputational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 2Op den Akker).
In addition to the corpora built in the project and the dialog managerdeveloped on the basis of these corpora, the article also contains a very good discussionabout how it is possible to integrate a dialog manager with a QA engine as a way ofdeveloping an interactive QA system.
I am not aware of any other articles that containall the information presented here in one place and in such detail.
The second article inthis part, ?Multidimensional Dialogue Management?
(Simon Keizer, Harry Bunt, andVolha Petukhova), is more theoretical and presents a dialog manager built using theframework of Dynamic Interpretation Theory (Bunt 2000) which is able to both interpretand generate utterances using dialog acts.
The article also presents briefly the way inwhich this dialog manager was integrated in the IMIX demonstrator.In my opinion, the editors of the book could have chosen a better title for the thirdpart of the book: ?Fusing Text, Speech, and Images.?
Both articles in this part presentwork done in the IMOGEN (Interactive Multimodal Output GENeration) project,1 oneof the subprojects embedded in the IMIX Programme that focused on producing mul-timodal presentations that combine text, speech, and graphics.
Only the first articlefocuses on the multimodal aspect of the project, however.
The other one discussesonly text processing.
The article ?Experiments inMultimodal Information Presentation?
(Charlotte van Hooijdonk, Wauter Bosma, Emiel Krahmer, Alfons Maes, and Marie?tTheune) presents three experiments for finding the appropriate way of combiningtext and images when answering questions from the medical domain.
In one of theseexperiments, the multimodal answers are produced automatically.
The other article,?Text-to-Text Generation for Question Answering?
(Bosma, Erwin Marsi, Krahmer, andTheune), discusses sentence fusion and could fit very well in a book dedicated to textsummarization, as the method presented there is tested not only on data specific toIMIX, but also on the DUC 2005 data.2The fourth and the largest part of the book is ?Text Analysis for Question An-swering.?
It contains five articles, none of which describe a full QA system.
Instead,as the title suggests, they focus on various ways of processing texts that can helpwith answering questions.
One common feature of these articles is that they describemethods to extract entities or relations between entities from texts.
Most of the articlesalso briefly discuss how this information is used in QA systems.Most of the methods described in the fourth part of the book are now widely usedin computational linguistics, but when they were proposed a few years ago manyof them were rather innovative.
For brevity, I give only a succinct indication of themethods presented in the articles.
?Automatic Extraction of Medical Term Variantsfrom Multilingual Parallel Translations?
(Lonneke van der Plas, Jo?rg Tiedemann, andIsmail Fahmi) describes how to acquire medical terms and their variants from parallelcorpora.
?Relation Extraction for Open and Closed Domain Question Answering?
(Bouma, Fahmi, and Jori Mur) shows how it is possible to extract relations betweenentities using dependency paths in a large collection of newspaper articles and in amuch smaller and closed domain corpus of medical documents.
A sequence label-ing method for entity recognition is presented in the article ?Constraint-SatisfactionInference for Entity Recognition?
(Sander Canisius, Antal van den Bosch, and WalterDaelemans).
Large newspaper corpora and the Web are used in ?Extraction of Hyper-nymy Information from Texts?
(Erik Tjong Kim Sang, Katja Hofmann, and Maarten deRijke) to determine hypernymy relations between entities.
The last article in the fourth1 http://wwwhome.cs.utwente.nl/?theune/IMOGEN/.2 http://www-nlpir.nist.gov/projects/duc/intro.html.452Book Reviewspart, ?Towards a Discourse-Driven Taxonomic Inference Model?
(Piroska Lendvai)looks at how the structure of discourse can be used for knowledge discovery fromencyclopedic texts.
All the articles are well written and could be very interesting forresearchers working on information extraction.The book finishes with an epilogue written by three members of the internationalreview panel of IMIX (Eduard Hovy, Jon Oberlander, and Norbert Reithinger) who givea very good overview of the project, providing information that is not covered in anyother article of the book.
For example, it expands on themultimodal research carried outin the program and presents some details from the point of view of project management.An objective evaluation of the overall program is also included.The book is interesting and I enjoyed reading it.
I have to point out, however, thatthe research presented here is rather old.
The IMIX Programme effectively ended in2008, so it can be argued that most of the articles refer to work that is more than 5years old.
The authors of the epilogue praise the researchers involved in IMIX for thelarge number of publications they produced.
This means that most of the informationpresented in the book was already published in one form or another somewhere else.Despite this, the book compiles in one place information about the IMIX Programwhichotherwise could take a while to collect.When I started reading the book, I expected to find more about interactive multi-modal question answering.
Each of these topics is presented individually, but with theexception of the article about the IMIX demonstrator, they are not discussed as awhole.
I was particularly disappointed by how little space was dedicated to multimodalprocessing.The articles in the book are written by different groups of authors and they are moreor less stand-alone.
To achieve this, they all present brief background information aboutthe IMIX Programme.
Despite the extra space required for it and the overlap betweenthe information presented in the articles, this is not necessarily bad because it meansthat researchers who do not have the time to read the whole book can focus on only thearticles that are most relevant for them.The potential readers of this book are likely to be researchers interested in theprocessing of Dutch texts.
Researchers in question answering, dialog processing, andinformation extraction would also benefit from the book.ReferencesBunt, Harry.
2000.
Dialogue pragmatics andcontext specification.
In Abduction, Beliefand Context in Dialogue.
John Benjamins,Amsterdam.Lalanne, Denis, Laurence Nigay, PhilippePalanque, Peter Robinson, JeanVanderdonckt, and Jean-Franc?ois Ladry.2009.
Fusion engines for multimodalinput: a survey.
In Proceedings of the2009 International Conference on MultimodalInterfaces, ICMI-MLMI ?09, pages 153?160,New York, NY.Maragos, Petros, Alexandros Potamianos,and Patrick Gros, editors.
2008.MultimodalProcessing and Interaction: Audio, Video,Text.
Springer, Berlin.Stock, Oliviero and Massimo Zancanaro,editors.
2005.Multimodal IntelligentInformation Presentation.
Springer, Berlin.Constantin Ora?san is a Senior Lecturer in Computational Linguistics at the University ofWolverhampton, UK.
His current research interests include anaphora and coreference resolution,automatic summarization, and question answering.
Ora?san?s address is RIILP, Wulfruna St.,University of Wolverhampton, WV1 1LY, UK; e-mail: C.Orasan@wlv.ac.uk.453
