Book ReviewsBitext Alignment?
2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsJo?rg Tiedemann(Uppsala University)Morgan & Claypool (Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Technologies, edited byGraeme Hirst, volume 14), 2011, 153 pp; paperbound, ISBN 978-1-60845-510-2, $45.00;e-book, ISBN 978-1-60815-511-9, $30.00 or by subscriptionReviewed byMichel SimardNational Research Council CanadaBitext alignment techniques are at the heart of the revolution that swept through thefield of machine translation (MT) two decades ago.
From the early attempts of pioneerslike Kay and Ro?scheisen (1993), to the recent success of [enter name of your currentfavorite alignment method or researcher], the growth of translation alignment is so tightlyintertwined with that of statistical machine translation that it is actually difficult (andmost likely futile) to try to establish which was most instrumental to which.
From thebeginning, researchers have been attracted by the alignment problem, not only becauseof its essential link to MT and the numerous other applications that could be derived,but also because bitext alignment seems like a ?neat?
problem: one around which aresearcher can easily wrap his or her head until a clean solution emerges.Of course, this neatness is mostly illusory, as many researchers eventually foundout, and all these ?possible?
links in publicly available reference alignments are wit-nesses to the fact that translation alignment is not a perfectly well defined problem,and that explaining the subtle ways in which identical concepts are rendered acrosslanguages by drawing lines between words is an oversimplification, to say the least.In spite of this, Tiedemann?s book is a timely addition to the natural languageprocessing literature.
After going through the motivations in Chapter 1, he introducesthe basic concepts and terminology in Chapter 2, discusses various alignment types,models and search procedures, and presents the fundamentals of alignment evaluation.Of particular interest is the discussion on the crucial role played by the segmentationof the text into the units on which the alignment will operate.
The process of collectingand structuring parallel corpora is briefly outlined in Chapter 3.In Chapter 4, Tiedemann gets to the heart of the matter with sentence-level align-ment.
Following a more-or-less historical line, he first covers approaches based onsurface features (sentence lengths, alignment type), a` la Gale and Church (1993), thenmethods relying on lexical resources, before looking at combined and resource-specificmethods.Chapter 5 covers word-alignment techniques.
As one would expect, it makes up asizeable portion of the book (about a third).
Half of this chapter is devoted to generativetranslationmodels (essentially, the IBMmodels), the other half to various discriminativemodels.
Finally, Chapter 6 rapidly surveys phrase and tree alignment models.Overall, Tiedemann?s book covers a lot of ground, possibly a bit too much.
This is avast field, which has seen the publication of hundreds (thousands?)
of publications overthe last 20 years or so.
The author clearly knows his stuff, and manages to structureits presentation in a logical and intuitive manner.
The exposition?s clarity sometimesComputational Linguistics Volume 38, Number 2suffers, however, from the author?s obvious desire not to miss anything.
Many researchavenues are just alluded to, and even fundamental notions are sometimes presented in asketchy manner.
For instance, the topic that clearly gets the most elaborate presentationis the IBM models, with 15 pages; yet it is unlikely that a reader new to this field willmanage to extract more than a general intuition about them.It is also worth noting that the book probably requires more from the reader thanjust ?familiarity with basic concepts?
of machine learning.
The means and methods ofmachine learning have become so ubiquitous in computational linguistics that we tendto forget how fundamental they are: the cycle of training and testing, feature engineer-ing, the debates of generative versus discriminative modeling, supervised versus semi-supervised versus unsupervised learning, and so forth.
All of this is part of our dailyroutine and has taken over our way of viewing the field.All this is not to say that this is not a useful book.
It is a well-structured, well-writtenoverview of the state-of-the-art in text-translation alignment.
It reads like a roadmap ofthe work accomplished more than a true travel guide.
As such, it is rich with pointers tothe many variations on methods and approaches to the problem.
It will most likely beof interest to the bi-curious among us: graduate students and researchers who, althoughalready familiar with computational linguistics, may feel attracted to the other text.ReferencesGale, W. A. and K. W. Church.
1993.
Aprogram for aligning sentences inbilingual corpora.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19(1):75?102.Kay, M. and M. Ro?scheisen.
1993.Text-translation alignment.Computational Linguistics, 19(1):121?142.This book review was edited by Pierre Isabelle.Michel Simard obtained a Ph.D. in computer science from the Universite?
de Montre?al in 2003, buthas been actively involved in natural language processing research since 1986: He was part ofthe machine-aided translation team of CITI, a research laboratory of the Canadian Departmentof Industry; was a founding member of the RALI laboratory at the Universite?
de Montre?al;and was a postdoctoral researcher with the Machine Learning group at Xerox Research Cen-tre Europe (Grenoble, France).
Now a senior research officer at the National Research Coun-cil Canada, his work focuses mainly on machine translation and machine-assisted translation.Simard?s e-mail address is michel.simard@nrc-cnrc-gc.ca.440
