SquibsWhat Is a Paraphrase?Rahul Bhagat?USC Information Sciences InstituteEduard Hovy?
?USC Information Sciences InstituteParaphrases are sentences or phrases that convey the same meaning using different wording.Although the logical definition of paraphrases requires strict semantic equivalence, linguisticsaccepts a broader, approximate, equivalence?thereby allowing far more examples of ?quasi-paraphrase.?
But approximate equivalence is hard to define.
Thus, the phenomenon of para-phrases, as understood in linguistics, is difficult to characterize.
In this article, we list a setof 25 operations that generate quasi-paraphrases.
We then empirically validate the scope andaccuracy of this list by manually analyzing random samples of two publicly available paraphrasecorpora.
We provide the distribution of naturally occurring quasi-paraphrases in English text.1.
IntroductionSentences or phrases that convey the same meaning using different wording are calledparaphrases.
For example, consider sentences (1) and (2):(1) The school said that their buses seat 40 students each.
(2) The school said that their buses accommodate 40 students each.Paraphrases are of interest for many current NLP tasks, including textual entailment,machine reading, question answering, information extraction, and machine translation.Whenever the text contains multiple ways of saying ?the same thing,?
but the applica-tion requires the same treatment of those various alternatives, an automated paraphraserecognition mechanism would be useful.One reason why paraphrase recognition systems have been difficult to build isbecause paraphrases are hard to define.
Although the strict interpretation of theterm ?paraphrase?
is quite narrow because it requires exactly identical meaning,in linguistics literature paraphrases are most often characterized by an approxi-mate equivalence of meaning across sentences or phrases.
De Beaugrande and Dressler(1981, page 50) define paraphrases as ?approximate conceptual equivalence among?
24515 SE 46th Terrace Issaquah, WA 98029.
E-mail: me@rahulbhagat.net.??
24515 SE 46th Terrace Issaquah, WA 98029.
E-mail: hovy@isi.edu.Submission received: 5 July 2012; revised submission received: 21 January 2013; accepted for publication:6 March 2013.doi:10.1162/COLI a 00166?
2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 39, Number 3outwardly different material.?
Hirst (2003, slide 9) defines paraphrases as ?talk(ing)about the same situation in a different way.?
He argues that paraphrases aren?t fullysynonymous: There are pragmatic differences in paraphrases, namely, difference of eval-uation, connotation, viewpoint, and so forth.
According to Mel?cuk (2012, page 7) ?Anapproximate synonymy of sentences is considered as sufficient for them to be producedfrom the same SemS.?
He further adds that approximate paraphrases include implica-tions (not in the logical sense, but in the everyday sense).
Taking an extreme view, Clark(1992, page 172) rejects the idea of absolute synonymy by saying ?Every two forms (inlanguage) contrast in meaning.?
Overall, there is a large body of work in the linguisticsliterature that argues that paraphrases are not restricted to strict synonymy.In this article, we take a broad view of paraphrases.
To avoid the conflict betweenthe notion of strict paraphrases as understood in logic and the broad notion in linguis-tics, we use the term quasi-paraphrases to refer to the paraphrases that we deal with here.In the context of this article, the term ?paraphrases?
(even without the prefix ?quasi?
)means ?quasi-paraphrases.?
We define quasi-paraphrases as ?sentences or phrases thatconvey approximately the same meaning using different words.?
We ignore the finegrained distinctions of meaning between sentences and phrases, introduced due to thespeaker?s evaluation of the situation, connotation of the terms used, change of modality,and so on.
For example, consider sentences (3) and (4).
(3) The school said that their buses seat 40 students each.
(4) The school said that their buses cram in 40 students each.Here, seat and cram in are not synonymous: They carry different evaluations by thespeaker about the same situation.
We, however, consider sentences (3) and (4) to be(quasi) paraphrases.
Similarly, consider sentences (5) and (6).
(5) The school said that their buses seat 40 students each.
(6) The school is saying that their buses might accommodate 40 students each.Here, said and is saying have different tenses.
Also, might accommodate and seat are notsynonymous, due to the modal verb might.
We consider sentences (5) and (6) to bequasi-paraphrases, however.Note that this article focuses on defining quasi-paraphrases.
It does not providedirect implementation/application results of using them.
We believe, however, thatthis work will allow computation-oriented researchers to focus their future work moreeffectively on a subset of paraphrase types without concern for missing importantmaterial, and it will provide linguistics-oriented researchers with a blueprint of theoverall distribution of the types of paraphrase.2.
Paraphrasing Phenomena ClassifiedAlthough approximate equivalence is hard to characterize, it is not a completely un-structured phenomenon.
By studying various existing paraphrase theories?Mel?cuk(2012), Harris (1981), Honeck (1971)?and through an analysis of paraphrases obtainedfrom two different corpora, we have discovered that one can identify a set of 25 classesof quasi-paraphrases, with each class having its own specific way of relaxing the re-quirement of strict semantic equivalence.
In this section, we define and describe theseclasses.464Bhagat and Hovy What Is a Paraphrase?The classes described here categorize quasi-paraphrases from the lexical perspec-tive.
The lexical perspective defines paraphrases in terms of the kinds of lexical changesthat can take place in a sentence/phrase resulting in the generation of its paraphrases.1.
Synonym substitution: Replacing a word/phrase by a synonymous word/phrase,in the appropriate context, results in a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
Thiscategory covers the special case of genitives, where the clitic ?s is replaced by othergenitive indicators like of, of the, and so forth.
This category also covers near-synonymy,that is, it allows for changes in evaluation, connotation, and so on, of words or phrasesbetween paraphrases.
Example:(a) Google bought YouTube.
?
Google acquired YouTube.
(b) Chris is slim.
?
Chris is slender.
?
Chris is skinny.2.
Antonym substitution: Replacing a word/phrase by its antonym accompanied bya negation or by negating some other word, in the appropriate context, results in aparaphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This substitution may be accompanied bythe addition/deletion of appropriate function words.
Example:(a) Pat ate.
?
Pat did not starve.3.
Converse substitution: Replacing a word/phrase with its converse and invertingthe relationship between the constituents of a sentence/phrase, in the appropriatecontext, results in a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase, presenting the sit-uation from the converse perspective.
This substitution may be accompanied by theaddition/deletion of appropriate function words and sentence restructuring.
Example:(a) Google bought YouTube.
?
YouTube was sold to Google.4.
Change of voice: Changing a verb from its active to passive form and vice versa re-sults in a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This change may be accompaniedby the addition/deletion of appropriate function words and sentence restructuring.This often generates the most strictly meaning-preserving paraphrase.
Example:(a) Pat loves Chris.
?
Chris is loved by Pat.5.
Change of person: Changing the grammatical person of a referenced object results ina paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This change may be accompanied by theaddition/deletion of appropriate function words.
Example:(a) Pat said, ?I like football.?
?
Pat said that he liked football.6.
Pronoun/Co-referent substitution: Replacing a pronoun by the noun phrase itco-refers with results in a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This also oftengenerates the most strictly meaning-preserving paraphrase.
Example:(a) Pat likes Chris, because she is smart.
?
Pat likes Chris, because Chrisis smart.465Computational Linguistics Volume 39, Number 37.
Repetition/Ellipsis: Ellipsis or elliptical construction results in a paraphrase of theoriginal sentence/phrase.
Similarly, this often generates the most strictly meaning-preserving paraphrase.
Example:(a) Pat can run fast and Chris can run fast, too.
?
Pat can run fast and Chriscan, too.8.
Function word variations: Changing the function words in a sentence/phrase with-out affecting its semantics, in the appropriate context, results in a paraphrase of theoriginal sentence/phrase.
This can involve replacing a light verb by another light verb,replacing a light verb by copula, replacing certain prepositions with other prepositions,replacing a determiner by another determiner, replacing a determiner by a prepositionand vice versa, and addition/removal of a preposition and/or a determiner.
Example:(a) Results of the competition have been declared.
?
Results for thecompetition have been declared.
(b) Pat showed a nice demo.
?
Pat?s demo was nice.9.
Actor/Action substitution: Replacing the name of an action by a word/phrase denot-ing the person doing the action (actor) and vice versa, in the appropriate context, resultsin a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This substitution may be accompaniedby the addition/deletion of appropriate function words.
Example:(a) I dislike rash drivers.
?
I dislike rash driving.10.
Verb/?Semantic-role noun?
substitution: Replacing a verb by a noun correspond-ing to the agent of the action or the patient of the action or the instrument used forthe action or the medium used for the action, in the appropriate context, results ina paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This substitution may be accompaniedby the addition/deletion of appropriate function words and sentence restructuring.Example:(a) Pat teaches Chris.
?
Pat is Chris?s teacher.
(b) Pat teaches Chris.
?
Chris is Pat?s student.
(c) Pat tiled his bathroom floor.
?
Pat installed tiles on his bathroom floor.11.
Manipulator/Device substitution: Replacing the name of a device by a word/phrase denoting the person using the device (manipulator) and vice versa, in theappropriate context, results in a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
Thissubstitution may be accompanied by the addition/deletion of appropriate functionwords.
Example:(a) The pilot took off despite the stormy weather.
?
The plane took off despitethe stormy weather.12.
General/Specific substitution: Replacing a word/phrase by a more general or morespecific word/phrase, in the appropriate context, results in a paraphrase of the original466Bhagat and Hovy What Is a Paraphrase?sentence/phrase.
This substitution may be accompanied by the addition/deletion of ap-propriate function words.
Hypernym/hyponym substitution is a part of this category.This often generates a quasi-paraphrase.
Example:(a) I dislike rash drivers.
?
I dislike rash motorists.
(b) Pat is flying in this weekend.
?
Pat is flying in this Saturday.13.
Metaphor substitution: Replacing a noun by its standard metaphorical use andvice versa, in the appropriate context, results in a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This substitution may be accompanied by the addition/deletion of appropriatefunction words.
Example:(a) I had to drive through fog today.
?
I had to drive through a wall of fogtoday.
(b) Immigrants have used this network to send cash.
?
Immigrants have usedthis network to send stashes of cash.14.
Part/Whole substitution: Replacing a part by its corresponding whole and viceversa, in the appropriate context, results in a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This substitution may be accompanied by the addition/deletion of appropriatefunction words.
Example:(a) American airplanes pounded the Taliban defenses.
?
American airforcepounded the Taliban defenses.15.
Verb/Noun conversion: Replacing a verb by its corresponding nominalized nounform and vice versa, in the appropriate context, results in a paraphrase of the originalsentence/phrase.
This substitution may be accompanied by the addition/deletion ofappropriate function words and sentence restructuring.
Example:(a) The police interrogated the suspects.
?
The police subjected the suspects toan interrogation.
(b) The virus spread over two weeks.
?
Two weeks saw a spreading of thevirus.16.
Verb/Adjective conversion: Replacing a verb by the corresponding adjective formand vice versa, in the appropriate context, results in a paraphrase of the originalsentence/phrase.
This substitution may be accompanied by the addition/deletion ofappropriate function words and sentence restructuring.
Example:(a) Pat loves Chris.
?
Chris is lovable to Pat.17.
Verb/Adverb conversion: Replacing a verb by its corresponding adverb form andvice versa, in the appropriate context, results in a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This substitution may be accompanied by the addition/deletion of appropriatefunction words and sentence restructuring.
Example:(a) Pat boasted about his work.
?
Pat spoke boastfully about his work.467Computational Linguistics Volume 39, Number 318.
Noun/Adjective conversion: Replacing a verb by its corresponding adjective formand vice versa, in the appropriate context, results in a paraphrase of the originalsentence/phrase.
This substitution may be accompanied by the addition/deletion ofappropriate function words and sentence restructuring.
Example:(a) I?ll fly by the end of June.
?
I?ll fly late June.19.
Verb-preposition/Noun substitution: Replacing a verb and a preposition denotinglocation by a noun denoting the location and vice versa, in the appropriate context,results in a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This substitution may beaccompanied by the addition/deletion of appropriate function words and sentencerestructuring.
Example:(a) The finalists will play in Giants stadium.
?
Giants stadium will be theplayground for the finalists.20.
Change of tense: Changing the tense of a verb, in the appropriate context, resultsin a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This change may be accompaniedby the addition/deletion of appropriate function words.
This often generates a quasi-paraphrase, although it might be semantically less accurate than many other quasi-paraphrases.
Example:(a) Pat loved Chris.
?
Pat loves Chris.21.
Change of aspect: Changing the aspect of a verb, in the appropriate context, resultsin a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This change may be accompanied bythe addition/deletion of appropriate function words.
Example:(a) Pat is flying in today.
?
Pat flies in today.22.
Change of modality: Addition/deletion of a modal or substitution of one modalby another, in the appropriate context, results in a paraphrase of the original sen-tence/phrase.
This change may be accompanied by the addition/deletion of appro-priate function words.
This often generates a quasi-paraphrase, although it might besemantically less accurate than many other quasi-paraphrases.
Example:(a) Google must buy YouTube.
?
Google bought YouTube.
(b) The government wants to boost the economy.
?
The government hopes toboost the economy.23.
Semantic implication: Replacing a word/phrase denoting an action, event, and soforth, by a word/phrase denoting its possible future effect, in the appropriate context,results in a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This may be accompanied bythe addition/deletion of appropriate function words and sentence restructuring.
Thisoften generates a quasi-paraphrase.
Example:(a) Google is in talks to buy YouTube.
?
Google bought YouTube.
(b) The Marines are fighting the terrorists.
?
The Marines are eliminatingthe terrorists.468Bhagat and Hovy What Is a Paraphrase?24.
Approximate numerical equivalences: Replacing a numerical expression (a word/phrase denoting a number, often with a unit) by an approximately equivalent nu-merical expression (even perhaps with change of unit), in the appropriate context,results in a paraphrase of the original sentence/phrase.
This often generates a quasi-paraphrase.
Example:(a) At least 23 U.S. soldiers were killed in Iraq last month.
?
About 25 U.S.soldiers were killed in Iraq last month.
(b) Disneyland is 32 miles from here.
?
Disneyland is around 30 minutesfrom here.25.
External knowledge: Replacing a word/phrase by another word/phrase based onextra-linguistic (world) knowledge, in the appropriate context, results in a paraphraseof the original sentence/phrase.
This may be accompanied by the addition/deletion ofappropriate function words and sentence restructuring.
This often generates a quasi-paraphrase, although in some cases preserves meaning exactly.
Example:(a) We must work hard to win this election.
?
The Democrats must work hardto win this election.
(b) The government declared victory in Iraq.
?
Bush declared victory in Iraq.3.
Analysis of ParaphrasesIn Section 2, we presented a list of lexical changes that define quasi-paraphrases.
In thissection, we seek to validate the scope and accuracy of this list.
Our analysis uses twocriteria:1.
Distribution: What is the distribution of each of these lexical changes in a paraphrasecorpus?2.
Human judgment: If one uses each of the lexical changes, on applicable sentences,how often do each of these changes generate acceptable quasi-paraphrases?3.1 DistributionWe used the following procedure to measure the distribution of the lexical changes:1.
We downloaded paraphrases from two publicly available data sets containingsentence-level paraphrases: the Multiple-Translations Corpus (MTC) (Huang, Graff,and Doddington 2002) and the Microsoft Research (MSR) paraphrase corpus (Dolan,Quirk, and Brockett 2004).
The paraphrase pairs come with their equivalent partsmanually aligned (Cohn, Callison-Burch, and Lapata 2008).2.
We selected 30 sentence-level paraphrase pairs from each of these corpora at randomand extracted the corresponding aligned and unaligned phrases.1 This resulted in 210phrase pairs for the MTC corpus and 145 phrase pairs for the MSR corpus.1 We assume that any unaligned phrase is paired with a null phrase and we discard it prior to the analysis.469Computational Linguistics Volume 39, Number 33.
We labeled each of the phrase pairs with the appropriate lexical changes defined inSection 2.
If any phrase pair could not be labeled by a lexical change from Section 2, welabeled it as unknown.4.
We finally calculated the distribution of each label (lexical change), over all the labels,for each corpus.
Table 1 shows the percentage distribution of the lexical changes in theMTC (column 3) and MSR corpora (column 4).3.2 Human JudgmentIn this section, we explain the procedure we used to obtain the human judgments of thechanges that define paraphrases from the lexical perspective:1.
We randomly selected two words or phrases from publicly available resources (de-pending on the lexical change) for each of the lexical operations from Section 2 (exceptexternal knowledge).
For example, to obtain words for synonym substitution, we usedWordNet (Fellbaum 1998) (and selected a word, say buy); to obtain implication rulesfor semantic implication, we used the DIRT resource (Lin and Pantel 2001); and so on.Table 1Distribution and Precision of paraphrases.
Distribution may not sum to 100% due to rounding.# Category % Distribution MTC % Distribution MSR % Precision1.
Synonym substitution 37 19 952.
Antonym substitution 0 0 653.
Converse substitution 1 0 754.
Change of voice 1 1 855.
Change of person 0 1 806.
Pronoun/Co-referentsubstitution1 1 707.
Repetition/Ellipsis 4 4 1008.
Function word variations 37 30 859.
Actor/Action substitution 0 0 7510.
Verb/?Semantic-role noun?substitution1 0 6011.
Manipulator/Device substitution 0 0 3012.
General/Specific substitution 4 3 8013.
Metaphor substitution 0 1 6014.
Part/Whole substitution 0 0 6515.
Verb/Noun conversion 2 3 10016.
Verb/Adjective conversion 1 0 5517.
Verb/Adverb conversion 0 0 6518.
Noun/Adjective conversion 0 0 8019.
Verb-preposition/Noun substitution0 0 6520.
Change of tense 4 1 7021.
Change of aspect 1 0 9522.
Change of modality 1 0 8023.
Semantic implication 1 4 7024.
Approximate numericalequivalences0 2 9525.
External knowledge 6 32 9526.
Unknown 0 0 NA470Bhagat and Hovy What Is a Paraphrase?2.
For each selected word or phrase, we obtained five random sentences from the Giga-word corpus.
These sentences were manually checked to make sure that they containedthe intended sense of the word or phrase.
This gave us a total of 10 sentences for eachphenomenon.
For example, for the word buy, one of the selected sentences might be:(a) They want to buy a house.3.
For each sentence selected in step 2, we applied the corresponding lexical changes tothe word or phrase selected in step 1 to generate a potential paraphrase.2 For example,we might apply synonym substitution to sentence (a) and replace the word buy with itsWordNet synonym purchase.
This will result in the following sentence:(b) They want to purchase a house.4.
For the phenomenon of external knowledge, we randomly sampled a total of 10 sen-tence pairs from the MTC and MSR corpora, such that the pairs were paraphrases basedon external knowledge.5.
We gave the sentence pairs to two annotators and asked them to annotate them aseither paraphrases or non-paraphrases.
For example, the annotator might be given thesentence pair (a) and (b) and she/he might annotate this pair as paraphrases.6.
We used the annotations from each of the annotators to calculate the precision per-centage for each lexical change.
The final precision score was calculated as the averageof the precision scores obtained from the two annotations.
Table 1 shows the percentageprecision (column 5) of lexical changes in this test corpus.7.
We finally calculated the kappa statistic (Siegal and Castellan Jr. 1988) to measure theinter-annotator agreement.
A kappa score of ?
= 0.66 was obtained on the annotationtask.4.
ConclusionA definition of what phenomena constitute paraphrases and what do not has been aproblem in the past.
Whereas some people have used a very narrow interpretationof paraphrases?paraphrases must be exactly logically equivalent?others have takenbroader perspectives that consider even semantic implications to be acceptable para-phrases.
To the best of our knowledge, outside of specific language interpretation frame-works (like Meaning Text Theory [Mel?cuk 1996]), no one has tried to create a general,exhaustive list of the transformations that define paraphrases.
In this article we providesuch a list.
We have also tried to empirically quantify the distribution and accuracy ofthe list.
It is notable that certain types of quasi-paraphrases dominate whereas othersare very rare.
We also observed, however, that the dominating transformations varybased on the type of paraphrase corpus used, thus indicating the variety of behaviorexhibited by the paraphrases.
Based on the large variety of possible transformations thatcan generate paraphrases, its seems likely that the kinds of paraphrases that are deemeduseful would depend on the application at hand.
This might motivate the creation of2 The words in the new sentence were allowed to be reordered (permuted) if needed and only functionwords (and no content words) were allowed to be added to the new sentence.471Computational Linguistics Volume 39, Number 3application-specific lists of the kinds of allowable paraphrases and the development ofautomatic methods to distinguish the different kinds of paraphrases.AcknowledgmentsThe authors wish to thank Jerry Hobbs andanonymous reviewers for valuablecomments and feedback.ReferencesClark, E. V. 1992.
Conventionality andcontrasts: Pragmatic principles withlexical consequences.
In Andrienne Lehrerand Eva Feder Kittay, editors, Frame,Fields, and Contrasts: New Essays inSemantic Lexical Organization.
LawrenceErlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, NJ,pages 171?188.Cohn, T., C. Callison-Burch, and M. Lapata.2008.
Constructing corpora for thedevelopment and evaluation ofparaphrase systems.
ComputationalLinguistics, 34(4):597?614.De Beaugrande, R. and W. V. Dressler.1981.
Introduction to Text Linguistics.Longman, New York, NY.Dolan, B., C. Quirk, and C. Brockett.2004.
Unsupervised construction oflarge paraphrase corpora: Exploitingmassively parallel news sources.In Proceedings of the Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING),pages 350?357, Geneva.Fellbaum, C. 1998.
An Electronic LexicalDatabase.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Harris, Z.
1981.
Co-occurence andtransformation in linguistic structure.In Henry Hiz, editor, Papers on Syntax.D.
Reidel Publishing Co., Dordrecht,pages 143?210.
First published in 1957.Hirst, G. 2003.
Paraphrasing paraphrased.Invited talk at the ACL InternationalWorkshop on Paraphrasing, Sapporo.Honeck, Richard P. 1971.
A study ofparaphrases.
Journal of Verbal Learningand Verbal Behavior, 10(4):367?381.Huang, S., D. Graff, and G. Doddington.2002.
Multiple-translation Chinesecorpus.
Linguistic Data Consortium,Philadelphia, PA.Lin, D. and P. Pantel.
2001.
Dirt: Discovery ofinference rules from text.
In ACM SIGKDDInternational Conference on KnowledgeDiscovery and Data Mining, pages 323?328,San Francisco, CA.Mel?cuk, I.
1996.
Lexical functions: A tool fordescription of lexical relations in a lexicon.In Leo Wanner, editor, Lexical Functionsin Lexicography and Natural LanguageProcessing.
John Benjamins Publishing Co.,Philadelphia, PA, pages 37?102.Mel?cuk, I., 2012.
Semantics: From Meaningto Text.
John Benjamins Publishing Co.,Philadelphia, PA.Siegal, S. and N. J. Castellan, Jr. 1988.Nonparametric Statistics for the BehavioralSciences.
McGraw-Hill, Columbus, OH.472
