Book ReviewInterpreting Motion: Grounded Representations for Spatial LanguageInderjeet Mani* and James Pustejovsky?
(*Children?s Organization of Southeast Asia and ?Brandeis University)Oxford University Press (Explorations in Language and Space series, edited byEmile Van Der Zee), 2012, xiii+166 pp; hardbound, ISBN 978-0-19-960124-0, ?60.00Reviewed byThora TenbrinkBangor University, WalesInderjeet Mani and James Pustejovsky present a documentation of the state of theart with respect to the formal and computational representation of motion conceptsexpressed in language (mostly English).
Starting from the conceptual properties rep-resented in the linguistic repertory of motion, they provide an overview of existing for-malisms and annotation approaches, ultimately moving towards automatic approachesand computational applications.
The book is timely in its representation of the currentunderstanding of motion concepts in language, and will therefore be of great interestin the computational and cognitive linguistics communities.Why, one may ask, do we need a better understanding of motion?
It might seemthat motion is just one of many human concepts expressed by a number of linguisticterms, which are adequately described by their lexical entries in anybody?s dictionary.Mani and Pustejovsky?s analysis of the linguistic representation of motion suggests avery different idea, however.
Far from representing just one marginal aspect of humanlanguage, the conceptualization and verbalization of motion turns out to be central tohuman life?and, as a consequence, central to communication.
Motion combines thetwo fundamental human concepts of space and time.
Space without time is, for humans,asmeaningless as timewithout space.
Both are inextricably linked?and this link ismostnotably and systematically represented in language via expressions of motion.
Motionis represented whenever aspects of life are described, reflecting its deep relevance forhuman thinking.
Any computational approach towards interpreting natural languagerepresentation will, sooner or later, need to deal with motion concepts.
Interpretingmotion, therefore, turns out to be one of the most fundamental research issues for avariety of purposes both in basic (or cognitive) and applied (or computational) research.?
2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsStrangely, so far, research on the human representation of these fundamentalconceptual domains is characteristically divided into two fairly distinct communitiesdealing with either space or time in language and cognition.
The combination of both,adding dynamic aspects, appears to pose too many challenges, adding too manycomplexities to the already puzzling diversity with respect to human representationsof space and time.
With their book Interpreting Motion, Mani and Pustejovsky are at theforefront of research that aims to bridge this gap by systematically bringing togetherfindings and formalisms from both directions.
The effort, as such, is laudable.
Theformal detail provided to explicate the representational patterns considerably addsto the value of this book.
Formalization serves computational purposes just as welldoi:10.1162/COLI r 00155Computational Linguistics Volume 39, Number 2as providing a more precise conceptual grasp of the identified linguistic phenomena.Nevertheless, it is noted that more elaborate explanations and consistent informalglossesmight have supported the general audience of the OxfordUniversity Press ?Lan-guage and Space?
series.
Some readersmay bemore interested in the identified conceptsthan in the abundance of formalizations, which may be felt to hamper readability.Against the background of the current state of research, it becomes clear whyreaders may, at particular points, feel slightly less than satisfied with the mechanismsprovided for dealing with motion in language.
The book is unusually clear and honestin highlighting limitations in the current understanding of crucially relevant concepts,including existing formalization techniques.
Consequently, the book is not only a valu-able summary of the currently available tools for interpreting motion, but also a usefulstarting point for further research that aims to fill various gaps identified by Mani andPustejovsky?s exploration of the field.One major gap that pervades much of the book concerns the mapping of non-linguistic formalisms such as ontologies or calculi to linguistic expressions.
Such amapping is essential, because language reflects how humans naturally represent justthose concepts that formalisms attempt to capture.
The lack of systematic mappingmechanisms between linguistic structures and widely used formalization categoriesis by no means the authors?
fault, but reflects a longstanding research desideratumwell-known in the relevant research communities?with scattered attempts to providesolutions here and there, several of which are represented in this book.
Mani andPustejovsky contribute to this urgently needed research by laying out the available toolsin an accessible way and in many cases going several steps further ahead, suggestingmapping solutions wherever and to the extent possible.The book starts with an insightful and fairly detailed introduction section thatmainly serves to motivate the complexity involved in interpreting motion, highlightingkey insights taken from cognitive linguistic theory as well as earlier psycholinguisticexperimentation.
Subsequent chapters outline linguistic observations supplemented bynon-linguistic calculi, ontologies, and representations, dealing with space and time sep-arately.
The main innovative contribution of the book emerges with a proposal for theformal representation of motion in Chapter 4.
Here, previous approaches and mecha-nisms are combined to model the topological changes over time introduced by motionverbs.
The remaining two chapters provide annotation specifications and applicationprospects.
Extraction of motion information from natural language descriptions is pro-posed in terms of manual annotation; computational implementations are currentlystill very limited.
Nevertheless, these chapters set the stage for subsequent machinelearning and other automatic approaches, adopting methodologies already successfullyestablished for other formalisms, to which the newly proposed motion formalism isa successor.
In general, the described actual applications concern mostly other relatedwork; the book describes the relevance of the current framework to such applicationsand represents their goals.Concerning the formal interpretation of motion, the aim in Mani and Pustejovsky?sapproach is to capture the spatial implications carried by lexical items in terms of theirconsequences in the real world.
For instance, the verb to fly implies a disconnection be-tween the flying figure and the ground below it.
Although this is an essential conditionfor flying, in other cases implications can be context dependent, which is why corpus-based investigation is essential.
For instance, to establish the spatial situation conveyedby the verb to cross it is necessary to consider what exactly is being crossed.
In the caseof a field, there is constant contact with the ground, whereas in the case of a river beingcrossed via a bridge, there is no such contact?in fact, contact with the river will be456Book Reviewavoided.
Spatial implications such as these are implicitly understood by humans andneed to be made available for computational approaches.Along these lines, the presented framework scrutinizes lexical denotation in relationto systematic patterns in the spatial domain, rather than making any claims about con-ceptually prominent aspects of lexical items in a cognitive linguistic (or psychological)sense.
In this, the present approach is unique.
For example, the linguistic ontologyproposed by Bateman et al(2010) captures the differences in meaning distinguished bythe linguistic system, pointing to conceptual patterns reflected in (or made prominentby) language.
In contrast, the framework presented in this book aims at identifying thespatial content carried across by the use of lexical items in context.Altogether, the goal of this book is to provide a clearer and better-defined formalprocedure for interpreting the language of motion than has been available before.
Asa matter of fact, the authors basically reject all previous approaches for being toovague in fundamental respects.
I believe that there may be limits to the specifiabilityof linguistic terms, however, due to their phenomenal flexibility.
Cognitive linguistsgenerally assume that language serves to trigger associations in people?s minds, or buildthem up on the spot, based on sketchy and flexible semantics along with discoursecontext.
As Talmy (1988, page 165) puts it, ?we take a sentence (or other portion ofdiscourse) to evoke in the listener a particular kind of experiential complex, here to betermed a ?cognitive representation.??
In other words, linguistic termsmay not in the firstplace describe or represent meanings as such, but rather serve as triggers for activatingconcepts of human experience, which are far richer and more flexible than any lexicalentry or formalization could possibly represent.
These considerations resonate withcurrent efforts to capture more adequately what has been characterized as ?embodiedcognition?
(Anderson 2003).
To the extent that human cognition operates in a non-symbolic way, formalizations may ultimately remain inadequate in capturing humanunderstanding of motion.That said, I do believe that the authors?
effort in representing systematic impli-cations that can be gained from the language of motion has led to a considerablestep forward in a much-needed direction.
It reaches far beyond traditional formalsemantics approaches that basically leave the import of conceptual elements altogetheruntouched.
The formal representation of motion is in this book carried further than everbefore, combining decades of previous effort ingeniously towards extraction of motioninformation from natural language descriptions, to the extent possible given the currentstate of the art?and maybe ultimately limited by the nature of human language.ReferencesAnderson, Michael L. 2003.
EmbodiedCognition: A field guide.
ArtificialIntelligence, 149:91?130.Bateman, John, Joana Hois, Robert J. Ross,and Thora Tenbrink.
2010.
A linguisticontology of space for natural languageprocessing.
Artificial Intelligence174:1027?1071.Talmy, Leonard.
1988.
The relation ofgrammar to cognition.
In BrygidaRudzka-Ostyn, editor, Topics in CognitiveLinguistics.
Benjamins, Amsterdam,pages 165?206.Thora Tenbrink is a Lecturer in Cognitive Linguistics at Bangor University (Wales, UK), and aprincipal investigator in two projects in the Collaborative Research Center SFB/TR 8 SpatialCognition (Bremen / Freiburg).
Her main interest concerns the relationship between cognitiveprocesses and linguistic representations.
She is the author of Space, Time, and the Use of Language(Mouton de Gruyter, 2007), and has co-edited two books on issues in spatial language and spatialrepresentation.
E-mail: t.tenbrink@bangor.ac.uk.457
