ObituaryGeorge A. MillerChristiane FellbaumPrinceton UniversityGeorge Armitage Miller died on July 22, 2012, at the age of ninety-two.
He led a richlife full of accomplishments in the three areas of activity that he had chosen as a youngman: psychology, writing, and golf.Miller was not only a witness but a key player in the major paradigm shift of the20th century that came to be known as the cognitive revolution.
Incredible as it mayseem today, his teachers at Harvard followed the behaviorist dogma and recognizedneither the autonomy nor the significance of the human mind.
It took two courageousyoung scientists?George Miller and Jerome Bruner?to assert, each in their own do-main of investigation, that the mind is a worthwhile subject of study.
They started outby teaching a course boldly entitled ?Cognition?
and eventually established the Centerfor Cognitive Studies, ultimately making behaviorism obsolete.Miller drew an analogy between the human mind and a computer, noting thatboth store and process huge amounts of information.
At the same time, human short-term memory is limited, as his most celebrated paper on the ?Magical Number Seven?demonstrates (Miller 1956/1994).
Miller showed that chunking information into mean-ingful units helps recall, though the number of units that can be memorized seems tohover around seven.
For example, U.S. telephone numbers are broken down into threegroups of three, three, and four digits (area code, local exchange, and individual num-ber).
Chunk parsers (Abney 1991) build on the idea that sentence processing proceedsin phrases, reflected in prosodic patterns.Among our cognitive faculties, it was language in particular that fascinated George,a gifted writer.
One attraction was that linguistic behavior could be observed, tested,and evaluated quantitatively with the experimental paradigms available to psycholin-guists at a time when brain imaging techniques had not yet been developed.
The rulesof language, with their recursive aspects, could be seen as a kind of program.
Althoughhe collaborated with Noam Chomsky on the formal aspects of language, Miller in laterlife harbored a suspicion of highly abstract theories of syntax.
His interest lay primarilyin the lexicon, not only because of his authorial love of words, but also because of itssize, open-endedness, and dynamic aspects.
Moreover, the growth of children?s lexiconsoffered a window into their cognitive development.Miller is probably best known to readers of Computational Linguistics for his creationof the large lexical database WordNet (Miller 1995).
WordNet?s use as a resource fornatural language processing was in fact unintended, and its rapid adoption by the NLPcommunity came as a surprise.
George was interested in human semantic organizationand wanted to test the then-fashionable concept of semantic networks, which allowedfor plausible and elegant models of semantic representation and seemed supportedby experiments testing lexical access and retrieval (Collins and Quillian 1969).
Millerwondered whether a semantic network could in fact be built for the bulk of the Englishlexicon.
In the mid 1980s, he recruited a group of colleagues, students, and his wifeKitty and, without much further instruction, asked them to cluster nouns, verbs, and?
2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 39, Number 1adjectives into ?synsets?
that could be interrelated with a handful of semantic relations.Relying on conventional lexical resources and intuition, the WordNet team created tensof thousands of entries manually, a fact that provokes head-shaking among the newgeneration of WordNet builders, who proceed fully or semi-automatically.
Each seniormember was assigned a different part of speech; Kitty was the ?Adjective Lady,?
andGeorge took charge of the noun lexicon.
Both would come to the Cognitive ScienceLaboratory every day and patiently perform their lexicographic labor.
Once or twice aweek, George would leave in the afternoon for the golf course.
Well into this eighties, heparticipated in tournaments and, more often than not, his team was among the winners.A government sponsor?s requirement that the database be publicly released wasduly followed, but the response from the budding NLP community was entirelyunanticipated by the WordNet team, which was unaware of the challenge of wordsense disambiguation.
WordNet turned out to be a tool that promised help with thevexing task of word sense discrimination, and its graph structure became the basisfor a number of algorithms that measured semantic similarity among words in termsof their distance in the network.
Being unique in coverage and design, WordNet notonly survived but continued to grow, though its claims to modeling human seman-tic memory were largely abandoned.
George was proud to say that WordNet de-fined a new kind of electronic lexicography, and WordNet became a common noun.WordNets have been built for dozens of genetically and typologically unrelatedlanguages (http://www.globalwordnet.org).While working on WordNet, George became interested in children?s literacy.
Hebelieved that children did not learn words and their meanings from dictionaries, as theywere instructed to do in school.
To test this hypothesis, he asked children to look upunfamiliar words in a dictionary and write sentences using the new words.
As Georgehad guessed, the results were both appalling and amusing.
For example, when askedto write a sentence with the word meticulous, children would produce sentences like shewas meticulous about falling off the cliff after having seen a dictionary entry that definedthis adjective as careful, scrupulous, fastidious.Moreover, George guessed that children enjoy reading but, when encounteringan unfamiliar word, are generally disinclined to put their books down and consult adictionary.
His idea was to present new words in their contexts, based on evidence thatcontext-based learning was both natural and efficient (Miller and Gildea 1987).
He andhis team began to manually annotate a digitized book with entries from WordNet; aninterface would allow the children to read the book on the screen, click on unfamiliarwords and be presented with the context-appropriate WordNet sense.
It should beremembered that George?s idea of reading books on a screen was long before theinvention of e-readers!The text-to-WordNet link gave birth to the idea of the semantic concordance.
A largeteam of Princeton students manually annotated nouns, verbs, and adjectives from textsin the Brown Corpus against the corresponding WordNet senses.
George thought thatthis would be a straightforward task: Just as lexicographers create dictionary entriesbased on tokens in a text, their entries should be mappable back to words in texts in aone-to-one fashion.
We learned that dictionaries with enumerative, discrete word sensesare in fact not a particularly good way of modeling speakers?
lexicons.
Today, researchinto semantic annotation and measurements of inter-annotator agreement is a livelyarea of investigation.Although he had to transfer to emeritus status at the then-mandatory retirementage, George did not give up teaching.
He organized an informal course on the lexiconand for each of twelve weekly meetings prepared beautifully written lectures that2Fellbaum Obituarythe participants would discuss and critique.
The lectures would become The Scienceof Words, a prize-winning book on the lexicon that was translated into numerous lan-guages.
In this and several other books (including Language and Communication [1963]and Spontaneous Apprentices [1977]), George?s lively, lucid prose made a scientific sub-ject accessible to the general public and conveyed his fascination with language andcognition.
His landmark book Language and Perception (1976), co-authored with PhilipJohnson-Laird, remains a classic among psycholinguists to this day.
Co-authoring apaper with George invariably involved a final editing step on his part, which he referredto as ?Millerizing.
?George collected many prizes, medals, and honorary doctorates.
He was modestabout it and only very occasionally did a new frame appear on his office walls alongsidegraduation and wedding pictures of former students and the fake Renoir that he hadkindly bought from a street vendor.ReferencesAbney, Steven.
1991.
Parsing by chunks.
InPrinciple-Based Parsing.
Kluwer AcademicPublishers, pages 257?278.Collins, Allan M. and M. Ross Quillian.
1969.Retrieval time from semantic memory.Journal of Verbal Learning and VerbalBehavior, 8(2):240?247.Miller, George A.
1956/1994.
The magicalnumber seven, plus or minus two: Somelimits on our capacity for processinginformation.
Psychological Review (specialcentennial issue), 101:343?352.Miller, George A.
1963.
Language andCommunication.
McGraw Hill, New York.Miller, George A.
1977.
SpontaneousApprentices.
Seabury Press, New York.Miller, George A.
1995.
WordNet: A lexicaldatabase for English.
Communications of theACM, 38(11):39?41.Miller, George A. and Patricia M. Gildea.1987.
How children learn words.
ScientificAmerican, 257(3):94?99.Miller, George A. and Philip Johnson-Laird.1976.
Language and Perception.
BelknapPress, Cambridge, MA.3
