Book ReviewNatural Language Processing for Historical TextsMichael Piotrowski(Leibniz Institute of European History)Morgan & Claypool (Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Technologies, edited byGraeme Hirst, volume 17), 2012, ix+157 pp; paperbound, ISBN 978-1608459469Reviewed byLaurent RomaryInria & Humboldt University, BerlinThe publication of a scholarly book is always the conjunction of an author?s desire (orneed) to disseminate their experience and knowledge and the interest or expectationsof a potential community of readers to gain benefit from the publication itself.
MichaelPiotrowski has indeed managed to optimize this relation by bringing to the public acompendium of information that I think has been heavily awaited by many scholarshaving to deal with corpora of historical texts.
The book covers most topics related to theacquisition, encoding, and annotation of historical textual data, seen from the point ofview of their linguistic content.
As such, it does not address issues related, for instance,to scholarly editions of these texts, but conveys a wealth of information on the variousaspects where recent developments in language technology may help digital humanitiesprojects to be aware of the current state of the art in the field.?
2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsStill, the book is not an encyclopedic description of such technologies.
It is basedon the experience acquired by the author within the corpus development projects hehas been involved in, and reflects in particular the specific topics on which he has mademore in-depth explorations.
It is thus written more as a series of returns on experiencethan a systematic resource to which one would want to return after its initial reading.The book is organized as a series of nine short chapters.In the first two (very short) chapters, the author presents the general scope ofthe book and provides an overview of the reasons why natural language processing(NLP) has such an entrenched position in digital humanities at large and the study ofhistorical text in particular.
Citing several prominent projects and corpus initiatives thathave taken place in the last few decades, Piotrowski defends the thesis, which I share,that a deep understanding of textual documents requires some basic knowledge oflanguage processing methods and techniques.
Chapter 2 in particular (?NLP and DigitalHumanities?)
could be read as an autonomous position paper, which, independently ofthe following chapters, presents the current landscape of infrastructural initiatives andscholarly projects that shape this convergence between the two fields.Chapter 3 (?Spelling in Historical Texts,?
pp.
11?23) describes the various issues re-lated to spelling variations in historical text.
It shows how difficult it may be to deal withboth diachronic (e.g., in comparison to modern standardized spellings) and synchronic(degree of stabilization of historical spellings) variations, especially in the context of theuncertainty brought about by the transcription process itself.
This is particularly truefor historical manuscripts and Piotrowski goes deeply into this, showing some concretedoi:10.1162/COLI r 00180Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1examples of the kind of hurdles that a scholar may fall into.
This is the kind of shortintroduction I would recommend for anyone, in particular students, wanting to gain afirst understanding in the domain of historical spelling.Chapter 4 is the longest chapter in the book (?Acquiring Historical Texts,?
pp.
25?52) and covers various aspects of the digitization workflow that needs to be set up tocreate a corpus of historical texts.
The chapter is quite difficult to read as a single unitbecause of its intrinsic heterogeneity.
Indeed, it covers quite a wide range of topics:presentation of existing digitization projects worldwide, technical issues related toscanning, comparison of various optical character recognition systems for various typesof scripts, the potential role of lexical resources, crowdsourcing for optical characterrecognition (OCR) post-processing, and manual or semi-automatic keying.
Getting anoverview of the various topics is even more difficult because of the way the author hasfollowed his own personal experience, and alternates between general considerationsand in-depth presentations of concrete results.
Pages 34?40, for instance, is one singlesubsection on the comparison of OCR outputs that goes into so much detail that itbreaks the continuity of the argument, although in itself this subsection could be reallyinteresting for a specialized reader.
This chapter illustrates the point that the content ofthis book would benefit from being published in a more modern and open setting.Data representation aspects are covered in Chapter 5 (?Text Encoding andAnnotation Schemes,?
pp.
53?68), which tackles two specific issues, namely, characterand document encoding.
On these two, the author presents what could be consideredbest practices.
For character encoding, the book rightly focuses on the advantagesthat the move towards ISO 10646/Unicode has brought to the community.
Thecorresponding sub-section actually covers three different aspects: It first makes anextensive presentation of the history of character encoding standards (from ASCII/ISO646 to Unicode/ISO 10646), it provides insights into the current coverage and encodingprinciples (e.g., UTF-8 vs. UTF-16) of ISO 10646, and finally, it focuses on the specificdifficulties occurring in historical texts both from the point of view of legacy ASCII-based transcription languages and the management of characters that are not presentin Unicode.
Although well documented, these three topics should have been moreclearly separated so that readers interested in one or the other could directly refer toit.
This is a typical case where, given the great expertise of the author on the subject,I can imagine the corresponding texts being published on-line as separate entries in ablog.
The second half of the chapter focuses on the role of the Text Encoding Initiative(TEI) guidelines for the transcription and encoding of historical text.
It covers thevarious representation levels that may be concerned (metadata, text structure, surfaceannotation) and insists on the current difficulty of linking current NLP tools to TEIencoded documents.
Although this is indeed still an issue in general, it might havebeen interesting to refer to standards (ISO 24611?
MAF) and initiatives (Textgrid coreencoding at the token level; the TXM platform for text mining) that have started toprovide concrete sustainable answers to the issue.The following chapter (?Handling Spelling Variations,?
pp.
69?84), provides a seriesof short studies describing possible methods for dealing with OCR errors or spellingvariations as described in Chapter 3.
Independent of the fact that I find it strange tosee the two chapters set quite far from one another, Chapter 6 distinguishes itself by itsprofound heterogeneity.
Whereas several sections do have the most appropriate levelof detail and topicality for historical texts (in particular those on canonicalization),some sections seem to be completely off topic (Section 6.2, ?Edit Distance,?
describeswhat I would consider as background knowledge for such a book).
It is all the moredisappointing that the author shows here a very high level of expertise and, as in the232Book Reviewcase of Chapter 3, I would strongly recommend the reading of the relevant sections tonewcomers in the field.In contrast with the previous chapter, Chapter 7 (?NLP Tools for HistoricalLanguages,?
pp.
85?100) is more coherent and focused.
It mainly addresses the morpho-syntactic analysis of historical text and presents, through concrete deployment scenar-ios, possible methods to constrain the appropriate parsers, in a context where hardly anyexisting tools can be simply re-used.
The chapter is very well documented and refersto most of the relevant initiatives in the domain of morphology for historical text, atleast on the European scene.
This focus may also be misleading because recent work onnamed entity recognition on historical texts are not at all mentioned and are probably,to my view, one of the most promising direction for enhanced digital scholarship.The last chapter (?Historical Corpora,?
pp.
101?116) is a compendium, sorted bylanguage, of the major historical corpora available worldwide.
It shows the dynamicthat currently exists in the community and is an essential background resource to bothunderstanding who is active in maintaining historical corpora and discerning the mostrelevant resources.
The chapter as a whole provides an interesting ?historical?
per-spective on the progress made by most text-based projects in using the TEI guidelinesas their reference standard.
It seems quite difficult now to imagine an initiative whichwould not take TEI for granted, and would not build inside the TEI framework.
Onanother issue, namely, copyright, Piotrowski also provides an interesting analysis onthe difficulty of re-using old editions which have been recently re-edited on paper, andthus fall into some publisher?s copyright restrictions.
The conclusion could have been alittle tougher here though, and probably should have recommended putting a hold onany paper publication of historical sources by a private publisher unless it is guaranteedthat the electronic material can be used freely, under an appropriate open license.As a whole, the book leaves the reader with a mixed feeling of enthusiasm anddisappointment.
Enthusiasm, because the content is so rich that it should serve as back-ground reference (and indeed be quoted) for any further work on the creation, manage-ment, and curation of historical corpora.
Still, I cannot help thinking that the editorialsetting as a book is not the most appropriate setting for such content.
The variety oftopics that are addressed as well as the heterogeneous level of detail provided throughthe different chapters would benefit from a more fragmented treatment.
Indeed, thiswould be the perfect content for a series of blog entries (for instance, in a scholarlyblog such as those on the hypotheses.org platform) which in turn would allow aninterested reader to discover exactly the topics they want information about and citethe corresponding entries.
With the bibliography in Zotero and relevant pointers tothe corresponding on-line corpora or tools, I could imagine the resulting content soonbecoming one of the most cited on-line resources.
I am sure the author would gain morevisibility in doing so than having the material hidden on a library shelf or behind apaywall.
Not knowing the exact copyright transfer agreement associated with the book,I cannot judge if it is too late for the author to think in these terms, but this could be alesson for scholars who are now planning to write such an introductory publication.
Isthe book still the best medium?This book review was edited by Pierre Isabelle.Laurent Romary is director of research at Inria, France, and guest scientist at the Humboldt Uni-versity in Berlin.
He has been involved for many years in language resource modeling activitiesand in particular in standardization initiatives in the TEI consortium and ISO committee TC37/SC 4 (language resource management).
He is the director of the European DARIAH digitalinfrastructure in the humanities.
e-mail: laurent.romary@inria.fr.233
