A Survey of Arabic Named EntityRecognition and ClassificationKhaled Shaalan?School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh, UKThe British University in Dubai, UAEAs more and more Arabic textual information becomes available through the Web in homesand businesses, via Internet and Intranet services, there is an urgent need for technologies andtools to process the relevant information.
Named Entity Recognition (NER) is an InformationExtraction task that has become an integral part of many other Natural Language Processing(NLP) tasks, such as Machine Translation and Information Retrieval.
Arabic NER has begunto receive attention in recent years.
The characteristics and peculiarities of Arabic, a memberof the Semitic languages family, make dealing with NER a challenge.
The performance ofan Arabic NER component affects the overall performance of the NLP system in a positivemanner.
This article attempts to describe and detail the recent increase in interest and progressmade in Arabic NER research.
The importance of the NER task is demonstrated, the maincharacteristics of the Arabic language are highlighted, and the aspects of standardization inannotating named entities are illustrated.
Moreover, the different Arabic linguistic resourcesare presented and the approaches used in Arabic NER field are explained.
The features ofcommon tools used in Arabic NER are described, and standard evaluation metrics are illustrated.In addition, a review of the state of the art of Arabic NER research is discussed.
Finally,we present our conclusions.
Throughout the presentation, illustrative examples are used forclarification.1.
IntroductionIn the 1990s, in particular at the Message Understanding Conferences, Named EntityRecognition (NER) was first introduced as an information extraction task and deemedimportant by the research community.
In NER, the expression ?named entity?
(NE)covers not only proper names but also includes temporal expressions and some nu-merical expressions such as monetary amounts and other types of units.
Proper namesinclude three classic specializations (referred to as types or classes in the literature):persons, locations, and organizations.
For example, in the sentence Ahmed Khaled, CEOof Arabisoft Company in Egypt, Ahmed Khaled, Arabisoft Company, and Egypt would beidentified as references to a person, an organization, and a location, respectively.
A typecan in turn be divided into subtypes (Sekine, Sudo, and Nobata 2002), possibly formingan entity type hierarchy (Pappu 2009).
For example, locations might be divided into?
The British University in Dubai (BUiD), P.O.
Box 345015, Dubai, UAE.E-mail: khaled.shaalan@buid.ac.ae.Submission received: 12 September 2012; revised submission received: 12 March 2013; accepted forpublication: 17 July 2013.doi:10.1162/COLI a 00178?
2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2multiple fine-grained locations, such as city, state, and country.
For specific needs othertypes might be introduced, such as e-mail address, phone number, book ISBN, filename,and so on.A good portion of NER research is devoted to the study of English, due to its signif-icance as a dominant language that is used internationally for communications, science,information technology, business, seafaring, aviation, entertainment, and diplomacy.This has limited the diversity of text genre and domain factors from other languagesthat are usually considered when developing NER for these fields.
For instance, asmost scientific studies are conducted in English in almost all Arabic-speaking countries,there is no urgency to investigate Arabic NER for areas such as bioinformatics, drug, orchemical named entities.NER can be defined as the task that attempts to locate, extract, and automaticallyclassify named entities into predefined classes or types in open-domain and unstruc-tured texts, such as newspaper articles (Nadeau and Sekine 2007).
One obvious reasonfor the importance of named entities is their pervasiveness, which is evidenced by thehigh frequency, including occurrence and co-occurrence, of named entities in corpora(cf.
Saravanan et al.
2012).
Arabic is a language of rich morphology and syntax.
Itscharacteristics and peculiarities make dealing with it a challenge (Farghaly and Shaalan2009).
The last decade has shown a growing interest in addressing challenges thatunderlie the development of a productive and robust Arabic NER system (Al-Jumailyet al.
2012; Oudah and Shaalan 2012).This article investigates the progress in Arabic NER research.
The survey byNadeauand Sekine (2007) presents background on much of the work on NER for a variety oflanguages and myriad machine learning (ML) techniques.
To the best of our knowl-edge, Arabic NER and classification have not yet been surveyed extensively, which hasmotivated us to conduct this survey.The survey is structured as follows.
Section 2 provides background informationrelevant for working with Arabic NER.
Section 3 presents some aspects of the Arabiclanguage that will allow the reader to appreciate the difficulties associated with ArabicNER.
Section 4 briefly introduces the standard tag sets commonly used to annotatenamed entities.
Section 5 describes the Arabic NER language-specific resources that areinvolved in the NER task.
Section 6 gives a brief description of approaches used inArabic NER.
Section 7 discusses feature selection, which is a critical factor for achievingbetter performance for NER systems.
Section 8 presents various tools that have beenused in building Arabic NER systems and Section 9 illustrates evaluation techniquesfor NER systems.
Section 10 presents the state-of-the-art in ArabicNER research.
Finally,the concluding remarks are presented in Section 11.2.
Background2.1 Entity TrackingThe task of identifying named entities must be distinguished from entity tracking,which involves identifying mentions, relations, and the co-references that may existbetween them.
In this regard, a NE may contain only one mention such as a personname (e.g., Mohammed Morsi), but when a pronoun is used to refer to the same person,it is considered another mention of that entity.
Moreover, a nominal (e.g., president) canalso be used as a mention to refer to the same NE (cf.
Zitouni et al.
2005).
It should benoted that the richness of Arabic morphology allows two mentions to appear in one470Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationword (e.g., A 	J?KP our president, president-our), where a pronominal ( A 	K, our) can appearas a suffix pronoun to a nominal (e.g., president ?KP).
A co-reference exists when agroup of mentions refers to the same entity.
For example, in the sentence The [EgyptianPresident], [Mohammad Morsi], as the [chair of the 15th Non-Aligned Movement summit]declared opening of the 16th summit, there are three mentions that refer to the same person.Mentions also include aliases such as Abu Ammar, which refers to the same entity asYasser Arafat.An entity relation may be established between two or more NEs, such as aperson, an organization, a location, or a specific time.
Relationships between NEs can bebinary, such as person-affiliation or organization-location, or may involve more entities;for example, [a person] is in [a place] at [a specific time].
The entity relation is usuallyexpressed in a predicate form and is used to establish relations such as whether twopersons were working at the same organization at the same time (Ben Hamadou, Odile,and He?la 2010a).In summary, it is important to direct attention to the choice of the recognitionunit (i.e., real world NE, mention, co-reference, or relation), because mention detec-tion, co-reference resolution, and relation extraction are considered more difficult thanthe traditional NER task due to the complexity incurred by extracting non-namedmentions, grouping mentions into entities, and deriving semantic relations amongentities.2.2 The Broader Role of NERThe implications of research in NER for NLP more generally are too obvious toenumerate.
Examples of applications for which NER is useful are shown in thissection.Information Retrieval.
This is the task of identifying and retrieving relevantdocuments from a set of data according to an input query.
A study by Guo et al.
(2009) has indicated that about 71% of the queries in search engines contain NEs.Information Retrieval can benefit from NER in two phases (Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso2009a): firstly, recognizing the NEs within the query; and secondly, recognizing the NEswithin the searched documents, and then extracting the relevant documents taking intoaccount their classified NEs and how they are related to the query.
For example, theword ?QKQm.?
'@ (Aljazeera) can be recognized as an organization name or a noun corre-sponding to the word island; the correct classification will facilitate extracting relevantdocuments.Question Answering.
This is very similar to Information Retrieval but with moresophisticated results.
A Question Answering system takes questions as input and givesin return concise and precise answers (Ezzeldin and Shaheen 2012).
The NER task canbe utilized in the phase of analyzing the question so as to recognize the NEs within thequestion that will help later in identifying the relevant documents and constructing theanswer from relevant passages (Molla?, van Zaanen, and Smith 2006; Badawy, Shaheen,and Hamadene 2011; Lahsen, Bouzoubaa, and Rosso 2012).
For instance, the NE??
?B@ ?Q???
@ (Middle East) may be classified as an organization name (e.g., a newspaper)or as a location name according to the context.
Hence, the correct classification for theNE will help to target the relevant group of documents that answer the input query.Moreover, Question Answering systems could benefit substantially from NER, becausethe answer to many factoid questions involve NEs (Trigui et al.
2012) (e.g., answersto who (??
??/??A?)
questions usually involve persons or organizations, where (?K@)471Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2questions involve locations, and when (???)
questions involve temporal expressions)(Brini et al.
2009).Machine Translation.
This is the task of automatically translating a text fromone natural language into another.
NEs need special attention in order to decidewhich parts of an NE should be meaning-translated and which parts should bephoneme-transliterated (Al-Onaizan and Knight 2002b; Hassan and Sorensen 2005).Usually this depends on the type of the NE (Chen, Yang, and Lin 2003).
For example,personal names tend to be transliterated.1 For a location name, the name part and thecategory part (e.g., mountains) are usually transliterated and translated, respectively.Organization names are completely different in that most of the constituents aretranslated (e.g., United Nations).
The quality of the NER system plays a significantrole in determining the overall quality of the machine translation system, andhence, NE translation is critical for most multilingual application systems (Babychand Hartley 2003; Ben Hamadou, Odile, and He?la 2010b; Steinberger 2012).
Inaddition, NE translation is very important for other applications such as cross-lingualinformation retrieval for extracting newly introduced NEs from the Web and newsdocuments and regularly updating the list of NE translation pairs (Hassan, Fahmy, andHassan 2007).Text Clustering.
Search results clustering may exploit NER by ranking the re-sulting clusters based on the ratio of entities each cluster contains (Benajiba, Diab,and Rosso 2009a).
This enhances the process of analyzing the nature of each clusterand also improves the clustering approach in terms of selected features.
For example,time expressions along with location NEs can be utilized as factors that will give anindication of when and where the events mentioned in a cluster of documents haveoccurred.Navigation Systems.
These systems, which facilitate navigation using digital maps,now play significant roles in our lives.
They provide directions, information aboutnearby places possibly linked with other on-line resources, and traffic conditions.
Inthese systems, points of interest (also known as waypoints) are NEs that are stored ina database with their geographic coordinates (Kim, Kim, and Cho 2012).
They refer toareas of interest that are typically of significance to, among others, tourists, visitors,and rescuers, allowing the location of places such as parking areas, shops, hospitals,restaurants, universities, schools, landmarks, and so on.3.
Linguistic Issues and ChallengesArabic is a highly inflected language, with a rich morphology and complex syn-tax (Al-Sughaiyer and Al-Kharashi 2004; Ryding 2005).
Current Arabic NLP researchefforts cannot cope with the massive growth of Arabic data on the Internet andthe heightened need for accurate and robust processing tools (Abdul-Mageed, Diab,and Korayem 2011).
NER is considered one of the building blocks of Arabic NLPtools and applications.
Though significant progress has been achieved in ArabicNER research in the last decade, the task remains challenging due to the following1 Transliteration is the task of replacing words in the source language with their approximate phonetic orspelling equivalents in the target language.
It unambiguously represents the graphemes, rather than thephonemes, of the NE.
Transliteration between languages that use similar alphabets and sound systems isvery simple.
However, transliterating NEs between Arabic and English is a non-trivial task, mainly dueto the differences in their sound and writing systems (Al-Onaizan and Knight 2002a).472Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationfeatures of the Arabic language; opportunities for improved performance are stillavailable.3.1 Arabic ScriptThe Arabic language relies on the Arabic script, which is also used in writing otherlanguages such as Persian, Urdu, Kurdish, and Pashto (Habash 2010).
Some researchershave developed Arabic computational tools and resources based on Romanized2or transliterated3 Arabic text rather than genuine Arabic script (e.g., Buckwalter?sArabic Morphological Analyzer [Buckwalter 2002], the CJK lexical resources [Halpern2009], and Arabic NER systems [Bidhend, Minaei-Bidgoli, and Jouzi 2012; Zayedand El-Beltagy 2012]), either because these formats are more familiar to non-nativeArabic speakers or because of limitations in the Arabic script encoding imposed bythe development environment.
This approach should disappear over time with therapidly growing quantity of Arabic script-based Web content and new technologiesthat support multiple encodings.3.2 Language in UseWith regard to language usage, Arabic can be classified into three types (Elgibali2005): Classical Arabic (CA), Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), and Colloquial ArabicDialects (Abdel Monem et al.
2008; Habash 2010; Korayem, Crandall, and Abdul-Mageed 2012).
As far as Arabic NE is concerned, it is important to know the differencebetween these various uses of the language.
CA is the formal version that has beenused continuously for over 1,500 years as the language of Islam, used by Muslimsin their daily prayers.
Most Arabic religious texts are written in CA.
In this context,person name recognition is of particular interest in order to identify and verifythe correctness of citations (Zaraket and Makhlouta 2012) (a sequence of hadithnarrators referencing each other who provide narrations related to the ProphetMohammed based on known truthful and untruthful relaters).
The importance ofverification is that the authenticity of a hadith needs to be established before hisnarration is used in jurisprudence, and this depends on the credibility of the narrators.Furthermore, many historical Arabic manuscripts are handwritten in CA (or Arabiccalligraphy); when they are digitized and converted to text, Arabic NE will becomeimportant.MSA is the language of today?s Arabic newspapers, magazines, periodicals, letters,modern writers, and education.
MSA is one of the six official languages of the UnitedNations used in meetings and official UN documents.
Most Arabic NLP, including NERresearch projects, is focused on MSA.
The main difference between MSA and CA liesin the vocabulary, including NEs, and the orthography of conventional written Arabic(Farber et al.
2008): MSA does not require the inclusion of short vowels.
Moreover, MSAreflects the needs of contemporary expression, whereas CA reflects the needs of olderstyles.
For example, the Arabic NEs in rare documents and old manuscripts that refer2 Transliteration from Arabic to languages using the Latin alphabet is called Romanization.3 In a multilingual context, transliteration of NEs would differ depending on the target language(Pouliquenet et al.
2005).
For example, the Arabic name ?????
could be transliterated into Englishas Mustafa or Moustapha, while a likely French transliteration would be Moustafa or Moustapha.473Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2to places, jobs, or organizations are different from the corresponding NEs in moderndocuments.Colloquial Arabic is the spoken Arabic used by Arabs in their informal daily com-munication; it is not taught in schools due to its irregularity.
Unlike the widespreaduse of MSA across all Arab countries, colloquial Arabic is a regional variant thatdiffers not only among Arab countries, but also across regions in the same country.Written Colloquial Arabic is presently used mainly in social media communication.For comparison, a person name in either CA or MSA could be expressed in Arabicdialect by more than one form; for example, PXA??
@ YJ.?
(Abd Al-Kader) versus PXAm.?
'@ YJ.?
(Abd Al-Gader) or PXB@ YJ.?
(Abd Al-Aader).
Salloum and Habash (2012) presented auniversal machine translation pre-processing approach that has the ability to produceMSA paraphrases of dialectal input.
In this way, available MSA tools can also be usedto process Colloquial Arabic text, as most of the Arabic NER systems are developed tosupport MSA.3.3 Lack of CapitalizationUnlike languages like English that use the Latin script, where most NEs begin witha capital letter, capitalization is not a distinguishing orthographic feature of Arabicscript for recognizing NEs such as proper names, acronyms, and abbreviations (Farberet al.
2008).
The ambiguity caused by the absence of this feature is further increasedby the fact that most Arabic proper nouns (NEs) are indistinguishable from formsthat are common nouns and adjectives (non-NEs).
Thus, an approach relying onlyon looking up entries in proper noun dictionaries would not be an appropriate wayto tackle this problem, as ambiguous tokens/words that fall in this category aremore likely to be used as non-proper nouns in text (Algahtani 2011).
For example,the Arabic proper name 	?Q??
@ (Ashraf ) can be used in a sentence as a given name,an inflected verb (he-supervised), and a superlative (the-most-honorable) (Mesfar 2007).An NE is usually found in a context, namely, with trigger and cue words to the leftand/or right of the NE.
Therefore, it is common to resolve this type of ambiguity byanalyzing the context surrounding the NE.
However, this might require deeper analysisof the NE?s context.
As an example, consider the nominal sentence ?Ym.'.
??
@P ???
?,whose literal meaning might be the falling of his head in grandfather/Jeddah.
Thecorrect analysis of the trigger constituent ??
@P ????
as a multiword expressiondenoting place of birth leads to the recognition of the following noun as alocation name.3.4 AgglutinationThe agglutinative nature of Arabic results in many different patterns that create manylexical variations.
Each word may consist of one or more prefixes, a stem or root,and one or more suffixes in different combinations, resulting in a very systematic butcomplicated morphology.
Clitics, which in other languages such as English would betreated as separate words, agglutinate to words.
Arabic has a set of clitics that areattached to an NE, including conjunctions such as ?
(Waw, and) and 	?
(if ... then)and prepositions such as ?
(Laam, for/to), ?
(k, as), and H. (baa, by/with), or a combi-nation of both, as in ??
(Waw-Laam, and-for).
NER relies on the words forming the NEand the context in which it appears.
Both the words and the contexts may appear indifferent inflected forms.
In order to address data sparseness issues without requiring474Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationmassive training corpora, these bound morphemes should undergo morphological pre-processing.
One solution is to omit all the affixes and keep only the root morpheme(Grefenstette, Semmar, and Elkateb-Gara 2005; Farber et al.
2008; Alkharashi 2009).For example, the analysis of the word Q????.?
(and by Egypt, and-by-Egypt) yields Q???
(Egypt) as a location name.
Another solution is to perform text segmentation andinsert a delimiter between constituent morphemes, thus preventing loss of contextualinformation (Benajiba and Rosso 2007).
This information is more convenient for NLPtasks that need to process these morphemes.
As an example that shows an occur-rence of both prefix and suffix morphemes, consider the trigger word A?
D???A??
(andits capital, and-capital-its), which is segmented into three parts?a conjunction, andboth a nominal and a pronominal mention?separated by a space character: A?
????A?
?
(and capital its).3.5 Optional Short VowelsArabic text contains diacritics representing most vowels that affect the phonetic repre-sentation and give different meaning to the same lexical form.4 Nowadays, the modernversion of Arabic is written without diacritics, creating a one-to-many, unvocalized-to-vocalized, ambiguity (Alkharashi 2009), which gives mutually incompatible morpho-logical analyses for the same surface form.
As such, most Arabic texts that appearin the media (whether in printed documents or digitized format) are undiacritized.This is comprehensible for native Arabic speakers, but not for a computational sys-tem.
The simplification made by ignoring such diacritics had led to structural andlexical types of ambiguity because different diacritics represent different meanings.These ambiguities can only be resolved by contextual information and an adequateknowledge of the language (Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso 2009a).
For instance, Q??
mayrefer to the country name Qatar (a location NE) if transliterated as qatar, the literalmeaning of country (a trigger word for location NEs), or radius (a trigger word formeasure NEs) if transliterated as qutr, or the literal meaning of distill if transliteratedas qat?ar.
Unfortunately, this solution might not work if the contextual information isitself ambiguous due to non-vocalization (Mesfar 2007).
To consider another example,the likely vocalizations of the unvoweled form ?????
might lead to trigger words thatdenote two different NE types (e.g., ?
?
??
?
[a foundation/corporation], internal evidenceof a constituent of an organization name; and ?
???
?
[a founder], a trigger word forpersonal names).3.6 Inherent Ambiguity in Named EntitiesArabic, like other languages, faces the problem of ambiguity between two or moreNEs.
For example consider the following text: 	?KQK A 	??
AK.
I. kP XAK.
@ Y?g@ (Ahmed Abadwelcomed the winners).
In this example, XAK.
@ Y?g@ (Ahmed Abad) is both a person nameand a location name, thereby giving rise to a conflict situation, where the same NEis tagged as two different NE types.
Heuristic techniques for resolving ambiguitiesby cross-recognizing NE types are suggested.
One heuristic technique, proposed byShaalan and Raza (2009), uses heuristic rules for preferring one NE type over the other.4 A diacritic in Arabic is a small mark placed either above or under a letter to indicate what short vowelwill follow that letter.
Long vowels are usually indicated by one of three designated letters.475Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2Another technique, proposed by Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008b), favors the NE typefor which the classifier achieves the highest precision.3.7 Lack of Uniformity in Writing StylesArabic has a high level of transcriptional ambiguity: An NE can be transliterated in amultitude of ways (Shaalan and Raza 2007).
This multiplicity arises from both differ-ences among Arabic writers and ambiguous transcription schemes (Halpern 2009).
Thelack of standardization is significant and leads to many variants of the same word thatare spelled differently but still correspond to the same word with the same meaning,creating a many-to-one, variants-to-well-formed, ambiguity.
For example, transcribing(also known as ?Arabizing?)
an NE such as the city of Washington into Arabic NEproduces variants such as 	??j.
J ?
@?, 	??
J ?
@?, 	??
?
J ?
@?, 	??
J ??.
One reason for this isthat Arabic has more speech sounds than Western European languages, which canambiguously or erroneously lead to an NE having more variants.
One solution is toretain all versions of the name variants with a possibility of linking them together.Another solution is to normalize each occurrence of the variant to a canonical form(Pouliquen et al.
2005); this requires a mechanism (such as string distance calculation)for name variant matching between a name variant and its normalized representation(Refaat and Madkour 2009; Steinberger 2012).3.8 Systematic SpellingMistakesTypographic errors are frequently made by Arabic writers with regard to certain charac-ters (Shaalan et al.
2012).
This is due to either a character similarity or inherent disagree-ment about the characters, which often leads to orthographical confusion (El Kholy andHabash 2010; Habash 2010; Al-Jumaily et al.
2012).
The former category includes thecharacter Ta-Marbuta ( ?
), literally ?tied Ta?, which is a special morphological markertypically marking a feminine ending; this is carelessly written interchangeably withHa ( ?).
Ta-Marbuta is a hybrid character merging the form of the characters Ha ( ?
)and Ta ( H).
The latter category includes the Hamza-Alif letter variants that are oftenreductively normalized by brute force replacement with a bare Alif.
Some computa-tional linguists avoid writing the Hamza (especially with stem-initial Alifs), viewingthis as a Hamza restoration problem that is part of the Arabic diacritization problem.As an example that combines both types of errors, consider ?Ym.'.?J?C?B@ ???Am.?
'@ (TheIslamic University in Jeddah), which might be written with both typographical variantsas ?Ym.'.
?J?C?B@ ???Am.?
'@.
An edit-distance technique can be used to resolve the spellingvariant problem.
It should be noted that not all systematic spelling mistakes can behandled in this way.
For example, consider the difference between ???Am.?
'AK.
(and by/withthe university) and ???Ag.
CK.
(without a university).
It is difficult to determine whether ornot this mistake is due to the transposition of the two characters @ (Alif ) and ?
(Lam),where the prefix ?
@ (means the) whereas the prefix B (means no).
The latter variation alsoshows another orthographic problem: Arabic ?run-on?
words, or free concatenationof words, when the word immediately preceding ends with a non-connector letter,such as @ (Alif), X (Dal), 	X (Dhal), P (Ra), 	P (za), ?
(waw), and so forth.
For example,the following phrase shows a fully concatenated person NE and its surrounding con-text: ?Jk.
PA 	m?'@QKP?Y?m?P?J?Y?
@ (Dr-Mohammed-the-Minister-of-Foreign-Affairs).
This is com-prehensible by most readers but not by a computational system that needs to work onsegmented words.476Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classification3.9 Lack of ResourcesLarge collections of tagged documents (corpora) as well as gazetteers (predefined listsof typed NEs) are excellent sources that we can rely upon when implementing andtesting the performance of an Arabic NER system.
For these linguistic resources to beuseful, they should include unbiased distribution and representative numbers of NEsthat do not suffer from sparseness.
Unfortunately, the available Arabic resources forNER research often have limited capacity and/or coverage (Abouenour, Bouzoubaa,and Rosso 2010).
Moreover, it is expensive to create or license these important ArabicNER resources (Huang et al.
2004; Bies, DiPersio, and Maamouri 2012).
For thesereasons, researchers often rely on their own corpora, which require human annotationand verification.
Few of these corpora have been made freely and publicly availablefor research purposes (Benajiba, Rosso, and Bened??
Ruiz 2007; Benajiba and Rosso 2007;Mohit et al.
2012), whereas others are available but under license agreements (Strassel,Mitchell, and Huang 2003; Mostefa et al.
2009).4.
Named Entity Tag SetTagging, also known as labeling, is the task of assigning a contextually appropriate tag(label) to everyNE in the text.
The sequence of words that is annotatedwith the same tagis considered a single multiword NE.
The tag set used to tagNEsmay differ according touser requirements.
For example, Nezda et al.
(2006) used an extended set of 18 differentNE classes.
Mohit et al.
(2012)?s research adopted a very flexible scheme that allowsannotators more freedom in defining entity types.
In this research, entity types were notpredetermined and category matches between annotators were determined by post hocanalysis.In the literature, there are three standard general-purpose tag sets that have beenused to annotate Arabic linguistic resources in the field of NER research.
These tag setsmay be used as a basis for annotating linguistic resources and system outputs.The 6th Message Understanding Conference (MUC-6):5 This conference can beconsidered as the initiator of the NER task.
NEs are classified into three main tag ele-ments: ENAMEX (i.e., person name, location, and organization), NUMEX (i.e., moneyand percentage [numerical] expressions), and TIMEX (i.e., time and date expressions).Each tag element is categorized via the TYPE attribute.
Most researchers adopt this tagset.
For example, a NER system producing MUC-style output might tag the sentence2012 ??
?K.@ ??Q??
??
??D?
300 Y?A 	g ?Q ?
@(Khaled bought 300 shares of Apple Corp.) asillustrated in Table 1.The Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL): Asan outcome of CoNLL20026 and CoNLL2003, four categories of NEs were defined:person name, location, organization, and miscellaneous.
CoNLL follows the IOBformat to tag chunks of text representing NEs in a data set (Benajiba, Rosso,and Bened??
Ruiz 2007).
The CoNLL annotations are formulated as a word-basedclassification problem, where each word in the text is assigned a tag, indicatingwhether it is the beginning (B) of a specific NE, inside (I) a specific NE, or (O) outsideany NE.
IOB notation is used when NEs are not nested and therefore do not overlap.For example, a NER system producing CoNLL-style output might tag the sentence5 http://www.cs.nyu.edu/cs/faculty/grishman/muc6.html.6 http://ifarm.nl/signll/conll/.477Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2Table 1Example of MUC tagging.?/ENAMEX?
Y?A 	g ?ENAMEX TYPE=PERSON?
?Q ?@??
??D?
?/NUMEX?
300 ?NUMEX TYPE=CARDINAL???
?/ENAMEX?
?K.
@ ??Q??
?ENAMEX TYPE=ORGANIZATION??/TIMEX?
2012 ?TIMEX TYPE=DATE ?Table 2Example of CoNLL tagging.Arabic English Trans.
TagHP?
??
K @Q 	?
Frankfurt B-LOC???
@ said OXAm'@ Association B-ORG?
?A 	J?
Industry I-ORGH@PAJ??
@ Auto I-ORG??
in OAJKA??
@ Germany B-LOCTable 3Example of ACE tagging.???A??
@ ?A??
@ ??
?/GPE?
?A 	JJ.
?
?/GPE?
?/PER?
?
?k ?PER?
????
@ P@ 	PAJK A??
@ ??
H@PAJ??
@ ?
?A 	J?
XAm'@ 	???
@ , HP?
??
K @Q 	?
(Frankfurt, Auto Industry Association inGermany said) as illustrated in Table 2.BILOU (Ratinov and Roth 2009) was also suggested as an efficient alternative to theBIO format.
It is used to identify the beginning, the inside, and the last tokens of multi-token chunks as well as unit-length chunks.
Experimental results indicate that BILOUrepresentation of text chunks significantly outperforms the BIO format.The Automatic Content Extraction (ACE) program: Arabic resources for Infor-mation Extraction have been developed as part of the ACE program.
Accordingto the ACE 2003 tag elements,7 four categories are defined: person name, facility,organization, and geographical and political entities (GPE).
Later in ACE 2004and 2005, two categories were added to this tag set: vehicles and weapons.For example, a NER system producing ACE-style output might tag the sentence???A??
@ ?A??
@ ??
?A 	JJ.
?
?
?k ????
@ P @ 	P (King Hussein visited Lebanon last year) (Habash 2010)as illustrated in Table 3.7 The ACE tag sets for English, Arabic, and Chinese are available at http://projects.ldc.upenn.edu/ace/data/.478Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classification5.
Arabic Linguistic ResourcesThe lack of digital linguistic resources creates a formidable obstacle when it comes toArabic NLP in general and Arabic NER in particular.
Investing in these resources isjustified because it would lead to many benefits such as reusability, broad coverage, andfrequency and distributional information, as well as a way of evaluating and comparingsystems.
Corpora and lexical resources are two main types of linguistic resources thatare commonly used in NER.5.1 CorporaThe corpus needed for NER is a sufficiently large annotated corpus where everyNE has a type assigned to it.
An important characteristic of a reliable corpus isthat it should be well balanced in terms of the NE type distribution.
A corpus canbe genre independent/specific; domain independent/specific: and consist of textsin one natural language (a monolingual corpus), two natural languages (a bilin-gual, parallel, or comparable corpus), or more natural languages (a multilingual orcrosslingual corpus).
In Hassan, Fahmy, and Hassan (2007), a general frameworkis proposed for extracting NE translation pairs from both comparable and paral-lel corpora.
Parallel corpora that are aligned on the sentence level have been usedto tag one corpus based on the tagged information in the other corpus such thatthey can complement and improve each other (Benajiba et al.
2010; Burkett et al.2010; Ma 2010).
For example, Samy, Moreno, and Guirao?s (2005) approach createsan NE aligned bilingual corpus that relies on the basic assumption that, given apair of sentences where each one is the translation of the other, and given that inone sentence one or more NE were detected, then the corresponding aligned sen-tence should contain the same NE either translated or transliterated.
As described,the approach is very effective because it involves Arabic, which is a case-insensitivelanguage, and Spanish, which does have orthographical differences between namesand non-names.Experimental results of NLP research are more easily compared with each otherwhen they rely on publicly available data sets or corpora.
The frequent use of thesecorpora in the research communitymakes them standarddata sets or corpora, serving asstable benchmark data for measuring ongoing progress and ranking systems accordingto their annotation capability.
Some NER corpora are available to members of organiza-tions under paid license agreements, for example, ACE8(Strassel, Mitchell, and Huang2003).
Because they are not free, it is difficult for small research groups to access them.However, contributors from the ArabicNLP research community are striving to developfreely available Arabic NER corpora to alleviate this problem and help other researchersto exploit these resources, for example, ANERcorp9(Benajiba, Rosso, and Bened??
Ruiz2007; Benajiba and Rosso 2007).
Nonetheless, these efforts are still limited and focusedaround a small set of domains (Mohit et al.
2012).
In most cases where researchers wantto conduct further investigation by studying the impact of different parameters and newfeatures of NER, therefore, they have found that it is indispensable to build their owncorpora.
In the literature, common and recent examples of Arabic corpora that have8 ACE corpora are available under license agreement from LDC (http://www.ldc.upenn.edu).A significant number of the data sets developed by LDC are Arabic language resources, makingLDC the leading source for such materials (Bies, DiPersio, and Maamouri 2012).9 Available for free at http://www1.ccls.columbia.edu/?ybenajiba/downloads.html.479Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2been used for Arabic NLP in general, and for Arabic NER and classification topics inparticular, are:r ACE 2003 corpus: This includes Broadcast News (BN) and Newswire (NW)genres.
The total size is 55.29 KB and the number of NEs is 5,505.r ACE 2004 corpus: This includes BN and NW from Arabic Tree Bank (ATB)genres.
The total size is 154.12 KB and the number of NEs is 11,520.r ACE 2005 corpus: This includes BN, NW, and Weblogs (WL) genres.
Thetotal size is 104.65 KB and the number of NEs is 10,218.r ANERcorp: This includes NW genre.
The corpus size is 174.76 KB and thenumber of NEs is 12,989.5.2 Lexical ResourcesAnother primary linguistic resource is the gazetteer, which is a collection of predefinedlists of typed entities; a gazetteer is also known as a dictionary or whitelist (Shaalan andRaza 2008).
Gazetteers include names that have been identified beforehand and havebeen classified into NE types.
When the acquisition of a gazetteer is fully automated,the number of NEs increases with the growth of the input linguistic resource or textused to create it.
The contents of a gazetteer should be consistent and belong to onlyone type of NE.
For example, a location gazetteer consists of names of continents,countries, cities, states, political regions, towns, and villages, and so on (Shaalan andRaza 2009).
A gazetteer might include full or partial NEs; for example, a person NEcould have separate gazetteers for first names (possibly distinguishing male names andfemale names), middle names, surnames, full forms, and even nicknames (Shaalan andRaza 2007; Higgins, McGrath, and Moretto 2010).
A gazetteer entry provides internalevidence to fully or partially match a candidate NE in the input.
Whenever a prede-fined NE that appears in the relevant gazetteer is detected in the input text, the NERsystem should recognize it directly as an NE of this type.
Very large gazetteers arepublicly available from the CJK Dictionary Institute10 under license agreement in theform of Arabic person, organization, company, and location name databases.
However,researchers who find these resources difficult to acquire build their own gazetteers fromdifferent resources such as the Web and from organizations (Benajiba and Rosso 2008;Shaalan and Raza 2009).Some systems used a blacklist (Shaalan and Raza 2009) that allows for discarding ofnegative evidence.
A filtering mechanism is used to reject incorrect matches.
To see howthis works, consider the following example: ?A??
@ 	?
?B@ ??
@Q??
@ ?Jk.
PA 	m?
'@ QKP?
(The IraqiForeign Minister the Secretary-General).
The contextual information ?Jk.
PA 	m?
'@ QKP?
??
@Q??
@(The Iraqi Foreign Minister) indicates that the following words are a person name.However, in this example, the following words, ?A??
@ 	?
?B@ (the Secretary-General) do notconstitute a valid person name; rather, they form an appositive which should be filteredout from the results.Lexical triggers are also considered one of the important linguistic resources(Shaalan and Raza 2007).
There are two kinds of lexical triggers that provide eitherinternal or contextual evidence.
The internal evidence lies within the NE itself, for10 See Arabic lexical resources at http://www.cjk.org/cjk/arabic/arabsam.htm.480Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationexample, ??Q??
(company) is internal evidence of an organization NE.
Contextual evi-dence is provided by the clues around the entities.
They might be deduced from analy-sis of the most frequent left- and right-hand-side contexts.
For example, the phraseAJKYg I.j 	J??
@ ?Q????
@ ?KQ?
@ ???Q?
Y?m?
P?J?X (Dr Mohammed Morsi the newly elected Egyp-tian president) includes the preceding lexical trigger P?J?X (Dr) and the following lexicaltriggers ?KP (president) and ?Q???
(Egyptian) for the person NE ???Q?
Y?m?
(MohammedMorsi).
Generally, lexical triggers provide clues that would indicate the presence orabsence of NEs.As far as the morphological properties are concerned, additional Arabic resourcesare needed to furnish information to NER systems, including lemmas, dictionaries, affixcompatibility tables, and English glosses.
For example, the English gloss, which is de-rived as a companion to some Arabicmorphological analyzers, is used to check whetherit starts with a capital letter, a key clue for an English NER.
Its presence functions asa hint that suggests the presence of an Arabic NE.
Benajiba, Rosso, and Bened??
Ruiz(2007), among others, have used POS tags to improve NE boundary detection.
Morpho-logical information can be obtained from deep Arabic morphological analysis (Farberet al.
2008).
However, leading and trailing character n-grams in surface word forms canalso be used to handle affix attachment without the need for morphological analysis(Abdul-Hamid and Darwish 2010).6.
NER ApproachesA number of Arabic NER systems have been developed using primarily two ap-proaches: the rule-based (linguistic-based) approach, notably the NERA system(Shaalan and Raza 2009); and the ML-based approach, notably ANERsys 2.0 (Benajiba,Rosso, and Bened??
Ruiz 2007).
Rule-based NER systems rely on handcrafted localgrammatical rules written by linguists.
Grammar rules make use of gazetteers andlexical triggers in the context in which the NEs appear.
The main advantage of therule-based NER systems is that they are based on a core of solid linguistic knowledge(Shaalan 2010).
However, any maintenance or updates required for these systems islabor-intensive and time-consuming; the problem is compounded if the linguists withthe required knowledge and background are not available.
On the other hand, ML-based NER systems utilize learning algorithms that require large tagged data sets fortraining and testing (Hewavitharana and Vogel 2011).
ML algorithms involve a selectedset of features extracted from data sets annotated with NEs in order to generate statisti-cal models for NE prediction.
An advantage of the ML-based NER systems is that theyare adaptable and updatable with minimal time and effort as long as sufficiently largedata sets are available.
Moreover, if we deal with an unrestricted domain, it is better tochoose the ML approach, as it would be expensive both in terms of cost and time toacquire and/or derive rules and gazetteers.
Recently, a hybrid Arabic NER approachthat combines ML and rule-based approaches has resulted in significant improvementby exploiting the rule-based decisions of NEs as features used by the ML classifier(Abdallah, Shaalan, and Shoaib 2012; Oudah and Shaalan 2012).
For a comprehensivesurvey of NER approaches more generally, see Nadeau and Sekine (2007).Arabic morphology is relatively complex, so morphological information isneeded in these approaches for identifying NEs.
For example, consider the phrase?KQ????
@ ?J?
g@Y?
@ ?P@ 	P?
I	J??
@ (The Ministry of Egyptian Interior announced, announcedthe-ministry the-interior the-Egyptian).
In this case, the rule or pattern that allowsthe recognizer to identify ?KQ????
@ ?J?
g@Y?
@ ?P@ 	P?
(The Ministry of Egyptian Interior) as an481Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2organization name stipulates that if the NE is preceded directly by a verb trigger and isfollowed by a noun (internal evidence of an NE constituent), which in turn is followedby one or two specific adjectives, then the sequence of these two or three words shouldbe tagged as an organization entity.
For more precise identification of NEs, sometimesthe adjective forms of nationality are also used in the recognition process (e.g., ?KQ????
@,the-Egyptian.fem from Egypt).
Known organization NEs that are kept in the organizationgazetteer can be used to improve the performance of the NER system.
As such, thesystem is able to recognize ?KQ????
@ ?Jk.
PA 	m?
'@ ?P@ 	P?
(The Ministry of Egyptian Foreign Affairs)in the short conjunction of organization NEs ?KQ????
@ ?Jk.
PA 	m?
'@?
?J?
g@Y?
@ ?GP@ 	P?
(EgyptianMinistries of Interior and Foreign Affairs, Ministries.dual the-interior and the-Foreign-Affairs Egyptian) by using the gazetteer entry for ?KQ????
@ ?J?
g@Y?
@ ?P@ 	P?
(The Ministry ofEgyptian Interior).7.
Feature Space of Arabic Named Entity RecognitionFeatures in NER are properties or characteristic attributes of words designed for con-sumption by a computational system.
This process begins by transforming the set ofwords (tokens) to be categorized into a set of feature vectors that belong to a featurespace, which is fed to the text classifier as input.
The feature vector representation isan abstraction over the text, which usually characterizes each word by one or moreBoolean or binary values (such as whether a word is capitalized), numerical values(word length), and nominal values (English gloss).
The source of these values mightbe their appearance as surface features, a pre-processing step, surrounding items, orthe characters that the word is composed of, or a combination of several features, orexternal knowledge (Oudah and Shaalan 2013).In this section, we present the features most often used for the recognition andclassification of Arabic NEs.
We organize11 them along the following different axes:word-level features, list lookup features, contextual features, and language-specificfeatures.
In the ML approach, the selection of the features to be taken into account by aclassifier is a very critical issue and can significantly affect the performance of a system.Section 7.5 is dedicated to discussing the feature selection step.7.1 Word-Level FeaturesWord-level features are related to the individual orthographic nature and structure ofeachword.
Table 4 lists subcategories of these features.
They specifically describe specialmarkers and special characters, word length, corresponding English word case, andaffix segments.
Special markers are used to indicate an abbreviation (e.g., acronym orcontraction) that might include internal periods, a hyphen, an ampersand, and so on.Word length is sometimes used to indicate the minimum length required in order forthe word to be considered as an NE type.
This feature capitalizes on the fact that shortwords are unlikely to be NEs.Capitalization is a key feature of an English NER.
Arabic is at a disadvantage inthis regard because the script does not orthographically mark proper names in thisway.
However, many researchers (e.g., Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso 2008a; Mohit et al.2012; Farber et al.
2008), have been able to derive the assumed capitalization from the11 In the literature, other ways used to classify features are linguistic-dependent versus independentfeatures and contextual versus internal features.482Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and ClassificationTable 4Word-level features.Feature DescriptionSpecial markers A binary feature indicating the presence of punctuation marks and specialcharacters in a word.Word length A binary feature indicating whether the length of the word is greater than apredefined threshold.Capitalization A binary feature indicating the existence of capitalization information onthe gloss corresponding to the Arabic word.Lexical The surface features of a character n-gram up to a range of characters from1 to n that indicate prefix and suffix attachment.lexical correspondences between Arabic and English, based on the underlying bilinguallexicon of BAMA (Buckwalter 2002) that MADA exploits (Habash and Rambow 2005).The capitalization feature has been designed with this in mind.
The insight is that if thetranslation begins with a capital letter then it is most probably an NE.One of the major problems of the Arabic language is the large number of prefixesand suffixes that are attached to an inflected word.
Lexical features are extracted viapattern matching rather than linguistic processing.
Hence, in the literature they areconsidered language-independent features that capture the word prefix and suffix char-acter sequences of length up to n. The sequences are matched from the leftmost (prefix)and rightmost (suffix) positions of the words.
In Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008b) andAbdul-Hamid andDarwish (2010), lexical features are represented by character n-gramsof leading and trailing characters in a word, which can frequently be used to identifyArabic NEs without the need for linguistic analysis.7.2 List Lookup FeaturesThese features are used to classify the identity of the target word with respect to itsmembership in various lists, called word-identity features by Farber et al.
(2008).
InTable 5, we present four important categories of lists used in the literature as binarydiscriminative features indicating whether a word is a member of any of these lists.Gazetteer list inclusion is a direct way to express a typical NE.The Lexical Trigger list provides a way to identify entity cues or predictivewords, such as the relation between a person and a title (e.g., ?G?JKP XA??
?JK.
??Am?
'@HAJK A???
@ 	XAJ?
@, Professor of Computational Linguistics Imed Zitouni), whereas the BlacklistTable 5List lookup features.Feature DescriptionGazetteer A binary feature indicating the existence of the word in an individual gazetteer.Lexical Trigger A binary feature indicating the existence of the word in the individual lexicaltrigger list.Blacklist A binary feature indicating the non-existence of the word in an individualblacklist.Nationality A binary feature indicating the existence of the word in the nationality list.483Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2(e.g., Q?
????
@ ?KP ?JK.
??Am?
'@ HAJK A???
@ 	XAJ?
@, Professor of Computational Linguistics chairmanof the conference) counterindicates the presence of an NE as a means of resolving theambiguity of words in the ambiguous position.Many authors have proposed a way to recognize nationality by identifying rele-vant word forms that are frequently used in NEs and their context, e.g., ?JKXPB@ ???Am.?
'@(The Jordanian University) and ?JKXPB@ ?????
@ AJK @P (the Jordanian queen Rania), respectively.Nationality word forms can be stemmed to a country name using a country gazetteerand well-known affixes in the rule-based approach (Shaalan and Raza 2008), for exam-ple, [ ?K] 	?XPB@ ???Am.?
'@ (Jordan[ian] University); or they may be searched using a separateclosed list in the ML approach (Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso 2008b), for example, Jordanianin this list might be expressed by the forms ?GXP@, ?JKXP@, ?GXPB@, or ?JKXPB@.7.3 Contextual FeaturesContextual features are local features defined over the targeted word and include thetype of words that occur with the NEs, namely, left and right neighbors of the can-didate word which carry effective information for the identification of NEs.
Table 6lists subcategories of these features.
Usually, they are defined in terms of a slidingwindow of tokens/words.
For example, if the size of the sliding window is 5, thedecision on the targeted word is made based on its features as well as the features ofits two immediate left and right neighbors (i.e., +/- 2 words Abdallah, Shaalan, andShoaib 2012).
Different window sizes have been used with contextual features.
Forexample, in Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008b) the window size was +/- 1, whereas inBenajiba et al.
(2010) it was +/- 1 to 3.
The sliding step over the text, which refers to theinterval between two adjacent sliding windows, should also be defined: usually it is 1.In the literature, contextual features specifically describe word n-gram and rule-basedfeatures.Word n-gram contextual features can be derived from the context of a document inorder to extract the relationships between previously identifiedNEs and an encounteredword within the input document (Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso 2008b).
They are used toinvestigate the space of the surrounding context for the NEs by taking into accountthe features of a window of words surrounding a candidate word in the recognitionprocess.Rule-based features are contextual features that are derived from rule-based de-cisions.
Abdallah, Shaalan, and Shoaib (2012) suggested that these features have acritical impact on the performance of pure ML-based NER components in particular,and proposed hybrid systems combining rule-based with ML-based components ingeneral.
In this system, an n-word sliding window is used for each word in corpus.Table 7 provides sample instances of these features for a window of size 5.Table 6Contextual features.Feature DescriptionWord n-gram The features of a sliding window comprising a word n-gram that includes thecandidate word, along with preceding and succeeding words.Rule-based The features of a sliding window derived from rule-based NER decisions.484Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and ClassificationTable 7Sample rule-based features for 5-word window.Targeted Word English Tran.
Wi-2 Wi-1 Wi Wi+1 Wi+2?KQ?
@ President OTHER OTHER OTHER OTHER Person????Q?
@ Russian OTHER OTHER OTHER Person PersonQ?
?XC 	?
Vladimir OTHER OTHER Person Person OTHER?K?K.
Putin OTHER Person Person OTHER OTHER7.4 Language-Specific FeaturesThese features are related to certain aspects of the Arabic language.
Table 8 lists sub-categories of language-specific features.
They specifically describe part-of-speech (POS),morphological features, and base-phrase chunks (BPC).Arabic words generally carry rich morphological information (Marton, Habash,and Rambow 2010), some of which includes noun?adjective agreement and specialmarkings indicating nominals in compounds.
The MADA toolkit has been found tobe very useful in generating a number of informative language-specific features foreach input word (Habash, Rambow, and Roth 2009).
One of these features is the POSmorpho-syntactic tag, which plays a significant role in Arabic NLP.
An Arabic NEusually consists of either noun (NN) or proper noun (NNP) tags.
In Benajiba andRosso (2007), very good results were obtained using the POS tagging feature, whichwas exploited to improve NE boundary detection.
The shared task of CoNLL nowincludes a POS column in its corpora.
Thus, the POS tag is a good distinguishingfeature for Arabic NEs; it has been studied separately in the literature to determineits impact on NER.
As an example, Farber et al.
(2008) demonstrated a significantimprovement in Arabic NER using a POS feature.
In order to make use of the varyingimportance of different morphological features, a careful choice of relevant featuresand their associated value representations have to be taken into consideration whenstudying Arabic NER.
Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008b) report on the impact ofmorphological features that affect NEs, such as aspect, person, definiteness, gender,and number.The structure of an Arabic sentence allows different arrangements of NEs: NEsmay appear anywhere in the sentence and at different distances from lexical trig-gers.
Elsebai, Meziane, and Belkredim (2009) and Elsebai and Meziane (2011) pointout that these arrangements might complicate the structure of the induced heuristicsrules of their rule-based NER system.
This observation has led to using the BPCfeature as an indicator of embedded NEs (Benajiba and Rosso 2008).
BPC featuresare related to the type of words that occur with NEs and their syntactic relations(Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso 2008b).
They are usually identified by shallow syntacticparsing.
The Amira toolkit has been found to be very useful in generating BPC features(Diab 2009).7.5 Feature SelectionIt is useful to think of the ML-based NER as consisting of four major steps: 1) featureselection; 2) algorithm selection or the decision of which ML algorithm(s) to use for485Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2Table 8Language-specific features.Feature DescriptionPOS The label identifying the part-of-speech category of a word.Morphological A set of morphological information (excluding POS).BPC Phrase-level labels identifying syntactic chunks such as noun phrases (NPs)and verb phrases (VPs) within a text.training and classification; 3) training, the actual learning of distinguishing patternsusing the selected feature list; and 4) classification, applying these patterns to the inputtext to detect and classify the NEs.The success of a learning algorithm is crucially dependent on the features it uses.
Asupervised learning algorithm uses an annotated corpus.
The training set derived froman annotated corpus represents the NEs in terms of feature values.Feature selection refers to the task of identifying a useful subset of features chosento represent elements of a larger set (i.e., the feature space).
The selection of the subset tobe utilized by a classifier is a very critical issue and when optimized it can enhance theperformance of a system dramatically (Nadeau and Sekine 2007).
The main purpose ofthis step is to try to find a strong correlation between an NE and one or more combinedfeatures in order to explore generalizations over the set of selected features.
Iterativeexperiments are conducted to gain a better understanding of different combinationsof the selected features and their impact on the NER task.
In a typical learning envi-ronment, reporting experiments with all the different combinations of features wouldadversely affect the readability of the achieved results (Abdul-Hamid and Darwish2010).
So, in the literature, the presentation highlights experiments that their enabledfeature combination show significant (or best) obtained results for the evaluation datasets.Under each type of feature, there is a set of characteristics that need to be consideredand the methods used to extract themmay differ in their degree of accuracy.
If all featurevalues and their combinations are selected the feature space becomes high-dimensional.Not all features are equally important for the recognition task.
Thus, even the set ofselected features needs to be evaluated in order to find the optimal feature set for anNER system.
There are different ways to carry out feature selection.The most widely used method is to select features manually by a process of en-abling features one by one to determine their effects.
Another method is to initiallydecide on the feature set by testing features in isolation at the beginning, and in-crementally combining them in different sets until a set containing all the featuresis reached and is tested.
Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008a) and Benajiba, Diab, andRosso (2008b) used an incremental approach that selects the top n features.
Then, thefeatures are ranked in a decreasing order according to their individual impact (usingthe F-measure obtained for each NE), keeping only the set that yields the best results ateach iteration.8.
Tools for Developing Arabic NER SystemsA good number of tools are available for developing and evaluating Arabic NER sys-tems, allowing for easy replicability of experiments.
The following is a non-exhaustive486Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationlist of NER tools that have been used in the Arabic NER literature.
The tools can beclassified into three categories according to their functions: Integrated DevelopmentEnvironments tools, ML tools, and Arabic NLP tools.8.1 Integrated Development EnvironmentsGATE12 (The General Architecture for Text Engineering): This is one of the mostpopular freely available software tools dealing with NLP.
GATE is a suite of Javatools that provides an infrastructure for developing and deploying software com-ponents that process human language (Maynard et al.
2000; Cunningham 2002;Cunningham et al.
2011).
The motivating factors behind the development of GATEinclude reusability of components, task-based evaluation, comparative evaluation,collaborative research, robustness, efficiency, and portability; the tools support ninelanguages (English, French, German, Italian, Chinese, Arabic, Romanian, Hindi, andCebuano).
GATE provides a set of essential tools for NLP system development,including tokenizers, gazetteers, POS taggers, chunkers, and parsers.
It facilitates thedevelopment of rule-based NER systems by providing the user with the capability ofimplementing grammatical rules as a finite state transducer using JAPE.
It also has anArabic plug-in that contains a tokenizer, gazetteers, an OrthoMatcher component, anda grammar, all of which are used within a simple Arabic rule-based NER applicationbuilt as a part of GATE.
GATE can be used to extract basic entities, such as date,name, location, organization, and so on.
A number of scholars have used the GATEenvironment in their research studies on Arabic NER, including Maynard et al.
(2002),Elsebai, Meziane, and Belkredim (2009), Elsebai and Meziane (2011), and Abdallah,Shaalan, and Shoaib (2012).NooJ:13 This is a freely available linguistic development environment for manylanguages.
NooJ allows the developer to construct, test, and maintain large coveragelexical resources, as well as apply morpho-syntactic tools for Arabic processing.
Itcan recognize all Unicode encodings, which is a very important feature for process-ing Arabic Script languages.
NooJ can recognize rules written in finite-state form orcontext-free grammar form, facilitating the development of rule-based NER systems.Nooj provides a disambiguation technique based on grammars to resolve duplicateannotations.
Arabic is one of the languages that are supported by NooJ; there are freeArabic resources for use within the NooJ environment on the NooJ official Web site.Mesfar (2007) has used NooJ in his Arabic NER research.LingPipe:14 A toolkit for text engineering and processing, the free version haslimited production capabilities and one must upgrade in order to obtain full pro-duction abilities.
The toolkit is language-, domain-, and genre-independent.
It sup-ports the development of different language processing tasks such as POS tagging,spelling correction, NE recognition, and word sense disambiguation.
The NER com-ponent is based on hidden Markov models and the learned model can be evaluatedusing k-fold cross validation over annotated data sets.
LingPipe recognizes corporaannotated using the IOB scheme.
The LingPipe NER system has been applied byANERcorp to demonstrate how to generate a statistical NER model for Arabic; the12 GATE is available at http://gate.ac.uk/.13 NooJ is available at http://www.nooj4nlp.net.14 LingPipe is available at http://alias-i.com/lingpipe/.487Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2details and results are presented on the toolkit?s official Web site.
AbdelRahman et al.
(2010) used ANERcorp to compare their proposed Arabic NER system with LingPipe?sbuilt-in NER.8.2 Machine Learning ToolsIn the Arabic NER literature, the ML tools of choice are data-mining-based tools thatsupport one or more ML algorithms, such as Support Vector Machines (SVM), Con-ditional Random Fields (CRF), Maximum Entropy (ME), hidden Markov models, andDecision Trees.
These tools are YASMET, CRF++, YamCha, and WEKA.
They all sharethe following features: a generic toolkit, language independence, absence of embeddedlinguistic resources, a requirement to be trained on a tagged corpus, the performance ofsequence labeling classification using discriminative features, and a suitability for thepre-processing steps of NLP tasks.YASMET:15 This free toolkit, which is written in C++, is applicable to ME models.The toolkit can estimate the parameters and computes the weights of an ME model.YASMET is designed to handle a large set of features efficiently.
However, there arenot many details available about the features of this toolkit.
In Benajiba, Rosso, andBened??
Ruiz (2007), Benajiba and Rosso (2007), and Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2009a),YASMET was used to implement ME approach in Arabic NER.CRF++:16 This is a free open source toolkit, written in C++, for learning CRFmodelsin order to segment and annotate sequences of data.
The toolkit is efficient in trainingand testing and can produce n-best outputs.
It can be utilized in developing manyNLP components for tasks such as text chunking and NER, and can handle largefeature sets.
Both Benajiba and Rosso (2008), Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008a, 2009a),and Abdul-Hamid and Darwish (2010) have utilized CRF++ to develop CRF-basedArabic NER.YamCha:17 A commonly used free open source toolkit written in C++ for learningSVMmodels.
This toolkit is generic, customizable, efficient, and has an open source textchunker.
It has been utilized to developNLP pre-processing tasks such asNER, POS tag-ging, base-NP chunking, text chunking, and partial chunking.
YamCha performs wellas a chunker and is capable of handling large sets of features.
Moreover, it allows for re-defining feature parameters (window-size) and parsing-direction (forward/backward),and applies algorithms to multi-class problems (pair wise/one vs. rest).
Benajiba,Diab, and Rosso (2008a), Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008b), Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso(2009a), and Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2009b) have used YamCha to train and testSVM models for Arabic NER.Weka:18 A collection of ML algorithms developed for data mining tasks.
Thealgorithms can either be applied directly to a data set or called from your ownJava code.
The toolkit contains tools for data pre-processing, classification, regres-sion, clustering, association rules, and visualization.
It has also been found usefulfor developing new ML schemes (Witten, Frank, and Hall 2011).
The Weka work-bench supports the use of k-fold cross validation with each classifier and the presen-tation of results by means of standard Information Extraction measures.
Most recently,15 http://www-i6.informatik.rwth-aachen.de/web/Software/YASMET.html.16 http://crfpp.sourceforge.net/.17 http://chasen.org/?taku/software/yamcha/.18 http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka/.488Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and ClassificationAbdallah, Shaalan, and Shoaib (2012) and Oudah and Shaalan (2012) have success-fully used Weka to develop an ML-based NER classifier as part of a hybrid ArabicNER system.8.3 Arabic NLP ToolsThe complexity of Arabicmorphology makes it a very challenging research topic.
In thissection we present Arabic morpho-syntactic pre-processing tools that are widespreadand used extensively in the Arabic NER literature, including BAMA, MADA, and theAMIRA toolkit.BAMA (Buckwalter Arabic Morphological Analyzer).19 BAMA is one of themost widely used Arabic NLP tools and is widely cited in the literature (Buckwalter2002; Elsebai and Meziane 2011).
It contains over 80,000 words, 38,600 lemmas, threedictionaries (Prefix, Stem, Suffix), and three compatibility tables (Prefix-Stem, Stem-Suffix, Prefix-Suffix) (Habash 2010).
Entries of the stem dictionary include Englishglosses, which have been used to disambiguate NEs.
BAMA output lends itself toinformation extraction and retrieval processing as it takes an input Arabic word andreturns a stem rather than a root.
The word is selected with or without short vowels.Then it is segmented and compatibility-checked for the correct combination of itssegments, producing all possible analyses of the input word.
BAMA transliterationof the output makes it readable; this is more useful for readers who do not havethe ability to read the Arabic script but are familiar with Latin script.
In addition,the transliteration20 output can be converted directly to Unicode Arabic with aminimal amount of automatic processing.
BAMA has been made available through theLinguistic Data Consortium.
Some of the Arabic NER studies that rely on BAMA forperforming morphological analysis include Farber et al.
(2008), Elsebai, Meziane, andBelkredim (2009), and Al-Jumaily et al.
(2012).
(MADA+TOKAN).21 MADA stands for Morphological Analysis and Disambigua-tion for Arabic.
The combined package is built on top of BAMA as a natural successorthat builds on prior successes and meets the growing requirements of many ArabicNLP applications (Habash, Rambow, and Roth 2009).
The package consists of twocomponents.
Morphological analysis and disambiguation are handled in the MADAcomponent.
Morphological analysis also supports the ability to tokenize and stem de-terministically.
Because there are many different ways to tokenize Arabic (tokenizationis a convention adopted by researchers), the TOKAN component allows the user tospecify any tokenization scheme that can be generated from disambiguated analyses.The MADA+TOKAN package provides one solution to all of the basic problems inArabic NLP, including tokenization (the segmentation of clitics from a word with at-tendant spelling modifications), diacritization (insertion of disambiguating short-voweldiacritics), morphological disambiguation (determining the full morphological infor-mation for each word given its context), POS tagging (determining specific morpho-logical information for each word), stemming (reducing each word to its base form),and lemmatization (determining the citation form lemma of the set of word lexemes19 LDC Catalog No.
: LDC2004L02, on http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/catalogEntry.jsp?catalogId=LDC2004L02.20 See the BAMA mapping table at http://www.qamus.org/transliteration.htm.21 MADA+TOKAN constitute a single package that is continuously updated.
The system is freely availablefor research purposes at http://www1.ccls.columbia.edu/MADA/MADA download.html.489Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2to which each word in the data belongs).
MADA operates by examining a list of allpossible analyses for each word generated by BAMA, and then selecting the analysisthat best matches the immediate context by means of SVM models.
This classifieruses 19 distinct and weighted morphological features to provide complete diacritic,lexemic, glossary, and morphological information (Habash 2010).
However, becauseMADA is built on top of BAMA, it inherits all of BAMA?s limitations.
For example,if no analysis is given by BAMA, no lemmatization or diacritization is undertaken.
Ithas been noted in the literature that because MADAwas trained and tested on the PennArabic Treebank (Maamouri et al.
2004), its coverage and quality relative to other texttypes has not yet been evaluated (Attia et al.
2010; Mohit et al.
2012).
The richness ofMADA?s extracted morphological features has been exploited by Arabic NER studiessuch as those carried out by Farber et al.
(2008), Benajiba and Rosso (2008), Benajiba,Diab, and Rosso (2008a), Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2009a), Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso(2009b), Oudah and Shaalan (2012), and Oudah and Shaalan (2013).AMIRA.22 A statistical Arabic processing toolkit that includes a clitic tokenizer, POStagger, and BPC or shallow syntactic parser (Diab 2009).
It has been widely used fordifferent NLP applications due to its speed and high performance.
BPC is one of thedistinctive characteristics of this toolkit.
AMIRA has been used in the extensive studiesof Arabic NER by Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008a), Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008b),Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2009a), and Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2009b).9.
EvaluationThe main objective of evaluation is to rank NER systems based on the ability toannotate a text in the way that an Arabic linguist would.
For any research undertaking,it is necessary to evaluate the system?s results with respect to existing systems onthe assumption that the same reported results should be replicated under the sameexperimental settings (Kumaran, Khapra, and Li 2010).
Results are easily comparedwhen they utilize the same standard evaluation corpora, where every NE has a typeassigned to it.CoNLL?s evaluation metrics are used in the Arabic NER literature.
These areaggressive metrics that do not assign partial credit: An exact match of the NE asa whole and a correct classification must be identified in order to earn credit.
Thereason that this method of scoring is popular is due to its simplicity in calculating andanalyzing results.
NER systems are compared based on the standard micro-averagedF-measure with the Precision being the ratio of the detected NEs that are correctlyclassified by the system, and the Recall being the ratio of the relevant NEs thatare detected by the system (Yang 1999).
Mesfar (2007) has redefined the evaluationmeasures to account for partially correct NE tagging that arises due to a lack ofinformation about unknown words within NEs.
No other research has accepted thisadditional parameter of the evaluation measures.High Recall means that the system returned most of the relevant results, whereashigh Precision means that the system returned more relevant results than irrelevant.Often, there is an inverse relationship between Precision and Recall, where it is possibleto increase one at the cost of lowering the other.
Recently, Mohit et al.
(2012)?s explo-ration of the Recall?Precision tradeoff proposed a Recall-oriented learning method that22 A demo of the system is available at http://nlp.ldeo.columbia.edu/amira/.490Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationimproved Recall over Precision during semi-supervised discriminative learning of NEsfrom Wikipedia.K-fold cross validation is usually adopted with the scoring method in order toavoid over-fitting.
The data set is randomly divided into k folds of equal size.
Each foldis used as a testing set and the remaining folds are used as a training set, and thenthe test results (i.e., F-measure, Precision, Recall) are averaged over the rounds.
Whencomparing evaluation results it is important to replicate the same split for training andtesting because different splits can have significant effects on the Precision and Recallvalues (Benajiba et al.
2010).
Characteristics of splits include the size of training and testdata sets, ratio of NEs, number of NEs, and average length of NEs (Benajiba, Diab, andRosso 2008a).
The advantage of the cross-validation method over other methods, suchas repeated random sub-sampling or the percentage split method (holdout), is that allobservations are used equally for both training and validation, and each observation isused for validation exactly once.
The disadvantage of this method is that the trainingalgorithm has to be rerun from scratch k times, which means it takes k times as muchcomputation to make an evaluation.
Typically, 10-fold cross-validation is used, but ingeneral k remains a variable parameter.10.
NER SystemsThe importance of Arabic NER systems has been well recognized by the community,as evidenced by the noteworthy publications in this important area.
In this sectionwe present different NER systems.
They are classified according to the approach used.Unfortunately for the research community, most of the efforts to develop reliable ArabicNER systems have been undertaken for commercial purposes (Benajiba, Rosso, andBened??
Ruiz 2007; Zaghouani 2012).
Because information on the specifications andperformance of these systems is generally not available, it is difficult to carry out afair comparison of the performance of these systems relative to the systems proposedby the Arabic NER research community.
Examples of commercial Arabic NER sys-tems are: ANEE23 (Coltec), IdentiFinder24 (BBN), NetOwlExtractor25 (NetOwl), Siraj26(Sakhr), Clear Tags27 (ClearForest), Enterprise Search28 (FAST ESP), and InXight-Smart-Discovery-Entity-Extractor29 (InXight).10.1 Rule-Based SystemsRule-based NER systems depend mainly on hand-made linguistic rules (i.e., grammars)defined by linguists.
In the literature, the development of systems using the rule-based approach was motivated mainly by the fact that the architecture of the availableNER development tools was optimized for building rule-based systems.
The approachcompensates for the lack of Arabic NER linguistics resources, and is favored based onthe encouraging results obtained by various Arabic rule-based systems as shown in thissection.
Experiments for reporting the performance of rule-based systems are described23 http://www.coltec.net/Portals/0/COLTEC PDFs/ANEE NEW.pdf.24 http://www.bbn.com/technology/speech/identifinder.25 http://www.sra.com/netowl/entity-extraction/.26 Online demo version available at http://siraj.sakhr.com/.27 http://www.clearforest.com/solutions.html.28 http://www.microsoft.com/enterprisesearch.29 http://www.inxightfedsys.com/products/sdks/tf/default.asp.491Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2at three levels: the NE type, the level of linguistic knowledge (morphology and syntax),and the inclusion/exclusion of gazetteers.
A corpus is often needed to evaluate an NERsystem, but not necessarily for its development.
This is the reason that many of theseexperiments are based on a non-standard data set that has been acquired by developersfor evaluation purposes.Maloney and Niv (1998) presented the TAGARAB system, an early attempt tohandle Arabic rule-based NER.
The system identifies the following NE types: person,organization, location, number, and time.
A morphological analyzer is used to decidewhere a name ends and the non-name context begins.
For evaluation, 14 texts fromthe AI-Hayat CD-ROM were selected randomly and manually tagged.
The overallperformance obtained for the various categories (time, person, location, and number)was a Precision of 89.5%, a Recall of 80.8%, and an F-measure of 85%.Abuleil (2004) developed a rule-based NER system that makes use of lexical trig-gers.
Some special verbs, such as 	???
@ (announce), is used to predict the positions ofnames in the Arabic sentence.
The research assumes that an NE appears close to lexicaltriggers no more than three words from the cue word and that the NE has a maximumlength of seven words.
Some names may be attached to different types of lexical triggersand to more than one lexical trigger in the same phrase.
For example, the phraseHA??????
@ AJk.
???
J?K ????
?KP 	?C?
?
Y?A 	g P?J?Y?
@ (Dr. Khaled Shaalan the Chairman of ITDepartment) has the lexical triggers P?J?Y?
@ (Dr) and ????
?KP (Chairman Department).In Abuleil?s (2004) work, Arabic NER is part of a question-answering system.
Thesystem starts by marking the phrases that could include names.
Afterwards, it buildsup a graph that represents the words in these phrases and the relationships betweenthem.
Finally, rules are applied to classify and generate the NEs before saving them ina database.
The system has been evaluated on 500 articles from the Al-Raya newspaper,published in Qatar.
It obtained a Precision of 90.4% on persons, 93% on locations, and92.3% on organizations.Samy, Moreno, and Guirao (2005) used comparable corpora in Spanish and Arabicand an NE tagger.
A mapping technique is used to transliterate words in the Arabic textand return those matching with NEs in the Spanish text as NEs in Arabic.
The SpanishNE tags are used as indicators for tagging the corresponding NEs in the Arabic corpus.Exceptions arisewhen it tries to recognizeNEswhose Arabic equivalents are completelydifferent, such as Grecia (Greece) 	?A 	K?J?
@, or do not have a precise transliteration, such asSomalia ?A????@.
An experiment was conducted using 1,200 sentence pairs.
In anotherexperiment, a stop word filter was additionally applied to exclude the stop words fromthe potential transliterated candidates.
The filter improved the overall Precision from84% to 90%; the Recall was very high at 97.5%.Mesfar (2007) used NooJ to develop a rule-based Arabic NER system.
The systemidentifies the followingNE types: person, location, organization, currency, and temporalexpressions.
The Arabic NER is a pipeline process that goes through three sequentialmodules: a tokenizer, a morphological analyzer, and Arabic NER.
Morphological infor-mation is used by the system to extract unclassified proper nouns and thereby enhancethe overall performance of the system.
An evaluation corpus was built from Arabicnews articles extracted from the Le Monde Diplomatique newspaper.
The reported resultsbased on individual NE types were as follows: Precision, Recall, and F-measure rangefrom 82%, 71%, and 76% for Place names to 97%, 95%, and 96% for Time and Numericalexpressions, respectively.Another system adopting the rule-based approach for identifying person names isPERA (Shaalan and Raza 2007).
This research describes the structure of Arabic personalnames: ?ism?, ?kunya?, ?nasab?, ?laqab?, and ?nisba?.
The ?ism?
is a proper name given492Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationshortly after birth (i.e., the given name).
Examples of such names are Y?m?
(Muhammad,Mohammed), ?????
(Musa, Moses), ???@QK.
@(Ibrahim, Abraham).The ?kunya?
is an honorific name or surname that states the name of someone?sfather (?K.
@, Abu) or mother (?
@, Umm).
For example: X?
@X ?K.
@ (Abu Da?ud, the father ofDavid), ????
?
@ (umm Salim, the mother of Salim).
When using a person?s full name, the?kunya?
precedes the given name, for example, 	?
?k 	???K?K.
@ (Abu Yusuf Hassan, thefather of Joseph, Hassan), ?
JJ?
@ Q 	??k.
?
@ (Umm Ja?far Aminah, the mother of Ja?far, Aminah).The ?nasab?
indicates the person?s heritage by the word 	?K.
@Ibn (colloquially andMSA, 	?K.
Bin), which means son ( I	K. Bint for daughter): for example, Q??
?K.
@(Ibn ?Umar,the son of Omar), ?AJ.?
I 	K. (bint ?Abbas, the daughter of Abbas).
The ?nasab?
follows the?ism?
in usage, for example, h. @Q?
?K.
@?
?k (Hasan Ibn Faraj, Hasan the son of Faraj),IJ.
k I	K.
?J???
(Sumayya Bint Khubbat, Sumayya the daughter of Khubbat).
Many histori-cal persons aremore familiar to us by their ?nasab?
than by their ?ism?.
Notable examplesare: the historian 	??Y?
g 	?K.
@ (Ibn Khaldun), the traveler ????
.
?K.
@(Ibn Battuta), and thephilosopher A 	J?
?K.
@(Ibn Sina, Avicenna).A ?laqab?
is a combination of words into a byname or epithet, usually religious orrelating to a trait, a descriptive, or some admirable quality the person had or wouldlike to have.
Examples are: YJ?Q?
@ (Al-Rashid, the Rightly guided), and ?
?A 	??
@ (Al-Fadl,the Prominent).
In practice, ?laqabs?
follow the ?ism?, for example, YJ?Q?
@ 	??PA?
(HarunAl-Rashid, Aaron the Rightly guided).Finally, a ?nisba?
is a name derived from a person?s: trade or profession, place ofresidence or birth, or religious affiliation.
Examples are: h.
Cm?
'@ (Al-Hallaj, the dresser ofcotton), ?Q????
@ (Al Msri, The Egyptian), ??C?
@(Islami, Islamic).
Nisbas follow the ?ism?or, if the name contains a ?nasab?
(of however many generations), generally follow the?nasab.
?In PERA, rules use regular expressions that include these naming constituents torecognize person names, where ?+?
indicates one or more elements; ?\s?
representswhite space; ?|?
represents alternatives; and ???
represents an optional element.
Forexample, consider the following rule:((honorific trigger+\s((?
@)?location GAZ( ?K|?)+\s)?
)+first name GAZ(\s+last name GAZ)?\s+(number)?
)This rule recognizes a person name such as ?GAJ?
@ ?<?
@ YJ.?
?GXPB@ ????
@ (The Jordanianking Abdullah II) that is composed of a first name followed by optional last name, whichin turn is followed by an optional ordinal number based on preceding person triggers.The triggers are the honorific ????
@ (the king) and the ?nisba?
?GXPB@ (Jordanian).
?Nisba?is represented by the expression (?@)?
location GAZ ( ?K|?)
that indicates a nationality(masculine or feminine) adjective as in [ ?K][K][ 	?XPB@] (Jordan[ian]) and [ ?][K][Q???][?
@]([The] Egypt[ian]).The system consists of three components: gazetteers, grammar rules, and a filteringmechanism.
Whitelists of person names are provided in the gazetteers component inorder to extract the exact matching of NEs regardless of the grammar.
Afterwards, theinput text is presented to the grammar in order to identify other person NEs.
Finally, thefiltering mechanism is applied to NEs in order to exclude invalid person names.
PERAwas evaluated using the ACE and Treebank Arabic data sets and obtained 85.5%, 89%,and 87.5% for Precision, Recall, and F-measure, respectively.493Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2As a continuation of the research carried out by Shaalan and Raza (2007), a NERAsystem was introduced by Shaalan and Raza (2008, 2009) that generalizes the findingsfrom PERA.
NERA addresses major challenges posed by NER in the Arabic languagearising from the complexity of the morphological system, peculiarities in the Arabicorthographic system, non-standardization of the written text, ambiguity, and lack ofresources.
The system identifies the following NE types: person, location, organization,date, time, ISBN, price, measurement, phone numbers, and filenames.
NERA usedthe FAST ESP30 framework, whose architecture is optimized for rule-based systems,as an implementation platform.
Like PERA, the NERA system has three components(gazetteers, local grammars in the form of regular expressions, and a filtering mecha-nism).
Gazetteer entries include English transliterations, an important feature for cross-lingual and multilingual applications.
The evaluation is based on manually constructedcorpora from ACE, the Web, and organizations.
NERA obtained an F-measure of 87.7%for person, 85.9% for locations, and 83.15% for organizations.Traboulsi (2009) presented a ruled-based approach for person NER that uses a localgrammar and dictionaries.
The extraction process is based on reporting verbs that canbe used within grammars to indicate one or more NE types.
In the following example,two NEs (person and organization names) can be recognized using verb and job titletriggers....
?
@ [?K.
?
@] ORG Name [?KP] TITLE trigger [hAJ.??
@ Y?
??
@ Y?g@] Person Name ?A?
...... said [Ahmad Al-Fahd Al-Sabah] [OPEC]?s [president] that ...Notice that not all verbs that occur before person names can correctly identify NEs.For example, in the following sentence ??K.
?@Y?
?
?E @(Saddum accused Bush, accusedSaddum Bush), using the verb as a trigger would result in the extraction of ??K.
?@Y?
(Saddum Bush) as a name although these are in fact two different names, correspondingto the subject and object of the verb, respectively.
An analytical study was conductedby Traboulsi (2009) for his own corpus (arabiCorpus) that was collected from severalnewspapers, books, the Quran, and some medieval medical and philosophical texts.The study addressed frequency, collocation, and concordance analyses of the corpus.No substantive evaluation results were reported.Elsebai, Meziane, and Belkredim (2009) and Elsebai and Meziane (2011) have pro-posed a rule-based person name recognition system.
The system is implemented usingGATE.
Heuristic rules make use of two kinds of lexical triggers in the Arabic text.
Anintroductory verb trigger, for example, ?A?
(said), identifies the phrases that probablyinclude person names.
An NE trigger, for example, I.J.?
(doctor), a job title, identifies aperson name within phrases.
The structure of the heuristic rule depends on the relativeposition of each kind of lexical trigger in the input text and its position relative toother words.
BAMA (Buckwalter 2002) has been integrated to extract the morphologicalfeatures of the target word that are used within rules to identifywhether the targetwordis a proper noun.
This has led to the elimination of the need for any predefined personname gazetteers.Name lists, specifically, place and organization names, and stopwords,such as prepositions, which occur after lexical triggers, are used to counter-indicate thepresence of a person name.
For example, although ??.?
?K.
@ (Abu Dhabi) in the phrase?KQKA 	??
@ 	??
??.?
?K.
@ I	J??
@ (Abu Dhabi announced the winners) is recognized as a propernoun, it is discarded because it belongs to the list of places and hence should not be30 FAST ESP is a product of the FAST Search & Transfer Company, which was acquired by Microsoft in 2008.494Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationrecognized as a person name.
Two experiments were conducted (Elsebai, Meziane, andBelkredim 2009; Elsebai and Meziane 2011).
The first experiment used around 700 newsarticles extracted from an Arabic media Web site, and the second used 500 articles.The overall system performance in the first experiment was 93%, 86%, and 89%, forPrecision, Recall, and F-measure, respectively; the overall performance in the secondexperiment was 88%, 90%, and 89%, for Precision, Recall, and F-measure, respectively.Alkharashi (2009) described the formation of an Arabic person name from root andpattern using the traditional Arabic morphology and suggested relevant computationalresources.
The author introduced a set of database tables in order to assist ArabicNER: root-pattern, a frequency list of roots, and lexical trigger tables.
A corpus wascreated from Saudi person names with specific person name tags: root of person NE,features indicating the possibility of affixation, and gender characteristics.
The mainobjective was to recognize the constituents of the person NE, these being the simpleform, the affix, and connectors.
For example, the name of the Umayyad caliphate????
@ YJ.?
?K.
YJ???
@ (Al-Waleed bin Abd Al-Malik) has ???
(Malik) and YJ??
(Waleed) as simplenames, YJ.?
(Abd) and ?
@ (Al) as name prefixes, and 	?K.
(Bin) as a name connector.
Thestudy has reported interesting observations about features of highly frequent patternsand their lengths.
A simple test for assessing howwell the pattern of a person name wasrecognized was conducted on 60,000 generated person names entries.
It demonstratedthat the correct pattern appears 94% of the time as one of the first three suggestedpatterns, 86% as one of the first two suggested patterns, and 69% of the time as the firstsuggested pattern.Al-Shalabi et al.
(2009) presented an Arabic NER algorithm for retrieving Arabicproper nouns using lexical triggers.
The research takes into consideration regionalpatterns such as the name connector Y??
(ould, son of ) used in Mauritanian personnames (e.g., ?
@X@X Y??
PAJ	m?, Moktar Ould Daddah).
The algorithm identifies the followingNE types: people, major cities, locations, countries, organizations, political parties, andterrorist groups.
However, the reported research only focuses on person NEs.
Thealgorithm uses heuristic rules to preprocess the input to clean the data and removeaffixes.
Then, internal evidence triggers, such as person name connectors, are used torecognize the NEs.
The system was evaluated using 20 randomly selected documentsfrom the Al-Raya newspaper published in Qatar, and the Alrai newspaper published inJordan.
An overall precision of 86.1% was observed.Attia et al.
(2010) proposed a method for acquiring a richer NE lexicon usingArabic WordNet (Elkateb et al.
2006) and Arabic Wikipedia.31 The proposed NE lexiconenhances the lexical entries in WordNet and produces a well-structured Arabic NElexical resource.
The main objective is to extract Arabic WordNet?s instantiable nounsand to identify the corresponding categories in the Arabic Wikipedia.
These categoriesact as lexical triggers.
A decision is made in order to identify which of the Wikipediaarticles of these categories correspond to NEs.
They are then extracted, connected toArabic WordNet, and inserted in the NE repository.
In a subsequent post-processingstep, further NEs are acquired by exploiting inter-lingual links.
Finally, the NEs acquiredare diacritized.
This lexical resource is useful for Arabic NER; the results are not onlyrecognized (tagged) NEs but also identified synsets which are semantically relatedto them (synonyms, subtypes, supertypes, etc.).
Likewise, Abouenour, Bouzoubaa,31 WordNet (Fellbaum 2005) is a large lexical database that originally implemented for English.
ArabicWordNet is still a limited lexical resource.
On the other hand, Wikipedia is a popular ubiquitous source ofcorpus data for information extraction because of its size, currency, rich semi-structured content, diversetopics, and closer resemblance to web text than newswire (Balasuriya et al.
2009; Mohit et al.
2012).495Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2and Rosso (2010) suggested enriching the NEs in Arabic WordNet by using anontology-basedmethod.
This is used in the query expansion stage of anArabic QuestionAnswering system (Lahsen, Bouzoubaa, and Rosso 2012), resulting in an improvementof the ranking of the returned passages.Shihadeh and Neumann (2012) proposed an Arabic NER system called ARNE,which recognizes person, location, and organization NEs based only on a gazetteerlookup approach; the system providesmorphological information using a system calledElixirFM, developed by Smrz (2007).
The system does not use any rules or contextinformation for Arabic NER.
Before recognizing the NEs, ARNE carries out threepre-processing steps that are not used by the gazetteer lookup approach: tokenization,Buckwalter transliteration, and POS tagging.
ARNE uses the ANERgazet gazetteerthat was developed by Benajiba, Rosso, and Bened??
Ruiz (2007) and Benajiba andRosso (2007).
ARNE can recognize a NE that has a maximum length of four words.The experimental results obtained low overall performance: 38%, 27%, and 30% forPrecision, Recall, and F-measure, respectively.
The authors suggest several reasons as towhy the F-measure did not achieve higher values.
These include the size and quality ofthe gazetteers, the richness and complexity of Arabic morphology, and the ambiguityproblem inherent in Arabic NEs.Al-Jumaily et al.
(2012) proposed a rule-based NER system that can be used in Webapplications.
The system identifies the following NE types: person, location, and organi-zationNEs.
The systemwas developed using GATE and providesArabicmorphologicalanalysis in a method similar to BAMA.
It also integrates different gazetteers fromGATE, DBPedia,32 and ANERGazet.33 The system was evaluated using ANERcorp.Two experiments were carried out to study the effect of Arabic prefixes and suffixeson the recognition results.
If an Arabic token (prefix-stem-suffix) is recognized, thena verification process is used to ensure the compatibility between the three possiblecombinations (prefix-stem, stem-suffix, and prefix-suffix).
The verification process hasimproved the recognition results of NEs across all types, although these improvementswere not symmetrical.
The improvements in the Precision of person, location, andorganization are 7.32%, 5.55%, and 5.14%, respectively.
Suggestions for improvementsinclude: 1) adding new patterns to the system?s dictionary, 2) accounting for all translit-eration variants of Latin names, 3) adopting semi-automatic methods to tag unrecog-nized words, and 4) performing contextual analysis to resolve ambiguity arising fromwords that may belong to different entity types (e.g., whether ?PAK.
(Paris) is a locationor person).Zaghouani et al.
(2010) presented an adaptation of a multilingual system, theEurope Media Monitor (EMM) Information Retrieval and Extraction applicationNewsExplorer34 (Steinberger, Pouliquen, and Van der Goot 2009), to consider Arabic.This system at present includes 19 languages and is able to analyze large volumes ofnews text.
The EMM-NewsExplorer architecture is optimized for ruled-based systems.The adaptation resulted in a rule-based Arabic NER system (RENAR; Zaghouani2012), which uses a handwritten set of language-independent rules (Steinberger,Pouliquen, and Ignat 2008) in combination with specific resources for Arabic.
Rulesare described using the following notations: ?\w+?
for an unknown word, ?\b?32 See http://dbpedia.org/About.
Entries of the DBPedia are translated from English to Arabic usingGoogle Translate.33 See http://users.dsic.upv.es/grupos/nle/?file=kop4.php for a set of resources includingANERGazet and ANERcorp.34 See http://press.jrc.it/overview.html.496Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationfor an obligatory word boundary (white space, possibly with punctuation), ?+?
forone or more elements, and ?*?
for zero or more elements.
For example, consider the rule:Organization BEG+\b known Name\b name Infix?\b Known Name?\b Organization ENDThis rule recognizes complex company names such as ?
K @?
k@?
Yj.
??
@ ?K.
@ Y?m?
??Q??
(company of Mohamed Abu Al-Majd and Brothers), which include person (known) namesYj.
??
@ ?K.
@ Y?m?
(Mohamed Abu Al-Majd) and the preceding and following organizationinternal evidence trigger ??Q??
(company) and ?
K @?
k@(Brothers), respectively.
The ArabicNER component is able to recognize the following NE types: person, organization,location, date, and number, as well as quotations (direct reported speech) by and aboutpeople.
The system was first evaluated using a corpus built from on-line news sourcesfrom the Tunisian newspaper Assabah and the Lebanese newspaper Alanwar.
The sys-tem?s overall performance was calculated in terms of Precision, Recall, and F-measure,delivering results of 87.17%, 65.74%, and 74.95%, respectively.
Then, the system wasevaluated only for person, organization, and location using ANERcorp.
The system?soverall performance in terms of Precision, Recall, and F-measure was 73.39%, 62.13%,and 67.13%, respectively.10.2 Machine Learning SystemsIn the field of NER, ML algorithms have been widely used in order to determine NEtagging decisions from annotated texts that are used to generate statistical models forNE prediction.
Experiments reporting ML system performance are evaluated in threedimensions: the NE type, the single/combined ML classifier (learning technique), andthe inclusion/exclusion of certain features from the whole feature space.
Most oftenthese experiments use a very well defined framework and their reliance on standardcorpora allows for an objective comparison of the performance of a proposed systemrelative to existing systems.Much research work on ML-based Arabic NER was done by Benajiba (Benajiba,Rosso, and Bened??
Ruiz 2007; Benajiba and Rosso 2007, 2008; Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso2008a, 2008b, 2009a, 2009b; Benajiba et al.
2010), who explored different ML techniqueswith various combinations of features.
Benajiba, Rosso, and Bened??
Ruiz (2007) havedeveloped an Arabic ME-based NER system called ANERsys 1.0.
The authors havebuilt their own linguistic resources, ANERcorp and ANERgazet.35 Lexical, contextual,and gazetteer features are used by this system.
ANERsys identifies the following NEtypes: person, location, organization, andmiscellaneous.
All the experiments are carriedout within the framework of the shared task of the CONLL 2002 conference.
The overallsystem?s performance in terms of Precision, Recall, and F-measure was 63.21%, 49.04%,and 55.23%, respectively.
The ANERsys 1.0 system had difficulties with detectingNEs that were composed of more than one token/word.
An extension of this work isANERsys 2.0 (Benajiba and Rosso 2007), which uses a two-step mechanism for NER: 1)detecting the start and the end points of each NE, then 2) classifying the detected NEs.A POS tagging feature was exploited to improve NE boundary detection.
The overallsystem?s performance in terms of Precision, Recall, and F-measure was 70.24%, 62.08%,35 For ANERcorp and ANERgazet, see http://www1.ccls.columbia.edu/?ybenajiba/.497Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2and 65.91%, respectively.
The performance of the classification module was very goodwith F-measure 83.22%, although the identification phase was poor with F-measure72.03%.Benajiba and Rosso (2008) have applied CRF instead of ME in an attempt toimprove performance.
The same four types of NEs used in ANERsys 2.0 were alsoused in the CRF-based system.
Neither Benajiba, Rosso, and Bened??
Ruiz (2007) norBenajiba and Rosso (2007) included Arabic-specific features; all the features used werelanguage-independent.
Language-independent and Arabic-specific features were usedin the CRF model, including POS tags, BPC, gazetteers, and nationality.
The CRF-based system achieved best results when all the features were combined.
The overallsystem?s performance in terms of Precision, Recall, and F-measure was 86.90%, 72.77%,and 79.21%, respectively.
The improvement was not only dependent on the use ofthe CRF model but also on the additional language-specific features, including POSand BPC.Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008a) examined the lexical, contextual, morphological,gazetteer, and shallow syntactic features of ACE data sets using the SVM classifier.The system?s performance was evaluated using 5-fold cross validation.
The impactof the different features is measured independently and in joint combination acrossdifferent standard data sets and genres.
The best system?s overall performance in termsof F-measure was 82.71% for ACE 2003, 76.43% for ACE 2004, and 81.47% for ACE 2005,respectively.Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008b) investigated the sensitivity of different NE typesto various types of features rather than adopting a single set of features for all NE typessimultaneously.
The set of features examined were the lexical, contextual, morpholog-ical, gazetteer, and shallow syntactic features, forming 16 specific features in total.
Amultiple classifier approach was developed using SVM and CRF models, where eachclassifier tags an NE type separately.
They used a voting scheme to rank the featuresaccording to the best performance of the two models for each NE type.
The result intagging a word with different NE types is resolved by selecting the classifier outputwith the highest Precision (i.e., overriding the tagging of the classifier that returnedmore relevant results than irrelevant).
An incremental feature selection method wasused to select an optimized feature set and to better understand the resulting errors.A global NER system could be developed from the union of all the optimized set offeatures for each NE type.
ACE data sets are used in the evaluation process.
The bestsystem?s overall performance in terms of F-measure was 83.5% for ACE 2003, 76.7% forACE 2004, and 81.31% for ACE 2005, respectively.
On the basis of the analysis of thebest recognition results obtained by individual and combined features experiments, itcannot be concluded whether CRF is better than SVM or vice versa.
Each NE type issensitive to different features and each feature plays a role in recognizing the NE tovarying degrees.Further studies conducted in Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2009a, 2009b) have con-firmed the importance of considering both language-independent and Arabic-specificfeatures in the NER system.
In particular, Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2009a) studied theimpact of SVM, ME, and CRF models using the same approach and features describedin Benajiba, Diab, and Rosso (2008b).
The best system?s overall performance in terms ofF-measure was 83.34% for ACE 2003, 77.61% for ACE 2004, and 82.02% for ACE 2005,respectively.
Interesting conclusions and recommendations have been suggested by thisstudy.
Both SVMs and CRFs achieved very similar performance, outperforming the MEmodel.
An important observation concerns the number of available features as the mainfactor for the choice of using SVMs versus CRFs: SVMs seem to achieve good results498Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationwith fewer features.
Another significant observation concerns the better performanceachieved by carrying out pre-processing of the Arabic text by a clitic segmenter, whichis more suitable given the morphological richness of Arabic.Later, in Benajiba et al.
(2010), the Arabic NER system described in Benajiba, Diab,and Rosso (2008b) is used as a baseline NER system to automatically tag an Arabic?English parallel corpus in order to provide sufficient training data for studying theimpact of deep syntactic features, also referred to as syntagmatic features.
The fea-ture space is enhanced by syntagmatic features that are bootstrapped by predictionfrom this corpus.
These features are derived from Arabic sentence parses that includean NE.
The relatively low performance of the available Arabic parser leads to noisyfeatures as well.
The inclusion of the extra features has achieved high performancefor the ACE (2003?2005) data sets.
The best system?s overall performance in terms ofF-measure was 84.32% for ACE 2003, 78.12% for ACE 2004, and 81.73% for ACE 2005,respectively.
Moreover, the authors reported an F-measure improvement of up to 1.64percentage points compared to the performance when the syntagmatic features wereexcluded.Abdul-Hamid and Darwish (2010) developed a CRF-based Arabic NER systemthat explores using a set of simplified features for recognizing the three classic NEtypes: person, location, and organization.
The proposed set of features include: bound-ary character n-grams (leading and trailing character n-gram features), word n-gramprobability-based features that attempt to capture the distribution of NEs in text, wordsequence features, and word length.
Remarkably, the system did not use any externallexical resources.
Moreover, the character n-gram models attempt to capture surfaceclues that would indicate the presence or absence of an NE.
For example, characterbigram, trigram, and 4-gram models can be used to capture the prefix attachment ofa noun for a candidate NE such as the determiner ?
@ (Al), a coordinating conjunctionand a determiner ?
@?
(w+Al), and a coordinating conjunction, a preposition, and adeterminer ?
AK.
?
(w+b+Al), respectively.
On the other hand, these features can also beused to conclude that a word may not be an NE if the word is a verb that starts withany of the verb present tense character set (i.e.,@ (A),  	K (n), K(y), or K (t).
Despite the factthat lexical features have solved the problem of dealing with a large number of prefixesand suffixes, they do not resolve the compatibility problem between prefixes, suffixes,and stems.
The compatibility checking is needed in order to verify whether a correctcombination is met (cf.
Buckwalter 2002).
The system was evaluated using ANERcorpand the ACE 2005 data set.
The overall system?s performance using ANERcorp forPrecision, Recall, and F-measure was 89%, 74%, and 81%, respectively.
These resultsshow that the system outperforms the CRF-based NER system of Benajiba and Rosso(2008).Farber et al.
(2008) proposed integrating a morphological-based tagger with anArabic NER system.
The integration is aimed at enhancing Arabic NER.
The richmorphological information produced by MADA provides important features for theclassifier.
The system adopts the structured perceptron approach proposed by Collins(2002) as a baseline for Arabic NER, using morphological features produced by MADA.The system was developed to extract person, organization, and GPEs.
The empiricalresults from a 5-fold cross validation experiment show that the disambiguated mor-phological features in conjunction with a capitalization feature improve the perfor-mance of the Arabic NER system.
They reported 71.5% F-measure on the ACE 2005data set.An integrated approach was investigated in AbdelRahman et al.
(2010) by com-bining bootstrapping, semi-supervised pattern recognition, and CRF.
The feature set499Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2is extracted by the Research and Development International36 toolkit, which includesArabTagger and an Arabic lexical semantic analyzer.
The features used include word-level, POS tag, BPC, gazetteers, semantic field tag, and morphological features.
Thesemantic field tag is a generic cluster that refers to a set of related lexical triggers.
Forexample, the ?Corporation?
cluster includes the following internal evidence that can beused to identify an organization name: ????m.?
(group), ?????
(foundation), ?JJ?
(authority),and ??Q??
(company).
The system identifies the following NEs: person, location, organi-zation, job, device, car, cell phone, currency, date, and time.
A 6-fold cross validationexperiment using the ANERcorp data set showed that the system yielded F-measuresof 74.06%, 89.09%, 75.01%, 69.47%, 77.52%, 80.95%, 80.63%, 98.52%, 76.99%, and 96.05%for the person, location, organization, job, device, car, cell phone, currency, date, andtime NEs, respectively.
The results also showed that the system outperforms the NERcomponent of LingPipe when both are applied to the ANERcorp data set.Mohit et al.
(2012) proposed a learning (Recall-oriented) model for Arabic NERfrom diverse text domains like Wikipedia within the AQMAR (American and QatariModeling of Arabic) project.
They used a flexible annotation scheme that allows forthe introduction of new NE tags.
As Arabic Wikipedia is not tagged for NEs, theyadopted semi-supervised learning (self-training) for building their own corpus.
Thelearning method does not utilize any gazetteer.
Once the evaluation corpus is built, asupervised learning method can be used to develop and evaluate an NER classifier.The feature space consists of 15 contextual and lexical features capturing local contextand shallow morphology.
Morphological features are extracted from MADA output.The training model is built using the structured perceptron described in Collins (2002).This framework allows them to manipulate two key elements of the model: the featuresand the loss function used in training.
This function measures the recognition errorfor each token/word, which is the difference between the correct and predicted label.It penalizes Recall errors (i.e., reduction of false negatives that arise by erroneouslypredicting the non-entity token/word as part of the actual NE), which is the chiefdifficulty for the news-text?trained model in the news domain.
The system was testedon 24 Wikipedia articles37 for possible combinations of the supervised learning phasewith self-training on unlabeled Wikipedia data.
The experimental results showed im-provements on F-measure by the proposed Recall-oriented model in both stages oflearning.
When Recall-oriented bias is used in the supervised phase, the recall gains aresubstantial: nearly 8% over the baseline.
Integrating this bias within self-training pro-duces a more modest improvement of about 4% relative to the baseline.
In both cases,the improvements to recall more than compensate for the degradation in Precision.Zayed and El-Beltagy (2012) proposed a person NER system that automaticallygenerates dictionaries of male and female first names as well as family names by a pre-processing step.
It relies onASVMTools (Diab, Hacioglu, and Jurafsky 2004) for POS tag-ging to identify proper nouns.
Thereafter, the dictionaries are expanded using Web siteslisting Arabic given names.
The system takes into consideration the common prefixes ofperson names.
For example, a namemay take a prefix such as ?
@ (AL, the),?K.
@ (Abu, fatherof ), 	?K.
(Bin, son of ), or YJ.?
(Abd, servant of ), or a combination of prefixes such as YJ.?
?K.
@(Abu Abd, father of servant of ).
It also takes into consideration the common embeddedwords in compound names.
For example the person names 	?KY?
@ P?
K (Nour Al-dain) or36 http://www.rdi-eg.com/.37 A small corpus of Arabic Wikipedia articles was developed via a flexible entity annotation schemespanning four topical domains (history, technology, science, and sports); this is publicly available athttp://www.ark.cs.cmu.edu/AQMAR.500Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classification?KY?
@ ????
(Shams Al-dain) have 	?KY?
@ (Al-dain) as an embedded word.
The ambiguity ofhaving a person name as a non-NE in the text is resolved by heuristic disambiguationrules.
The system is evaluated on two data sets: MSA data sets collected from newsWeb sites and colloquial Arabic data sets collected from the Google Moderator page.The overall system?s performance using an MSA test set collected from news Web sitesfor Precision, Recall, and F-measure was 93.52%, 87.89%, and 90.62%, respectively.
Incomparison, the overall system?s performance obtained using a colloquial Arabic testset collected from the Google Moderator page for Precision, Recall, and F-measure was88.7%, 85.56%, and 87.1%, respectively.Koulali, Meziane, and Abdelouafi (2012) developed an Arabic NER using a com-bined pattern extractor (a set of regular expressions) and SVM classifier that learnspatterns from POS tagged text.
The system covers the NE types used in the CoNLLconference, and uses a set of dependent and independent language features.
Arabic fea-tures include: a determiner ?
@ (AL) feature that appears as the first letters of organizationnames (e.g., ???
?J?
@, UNESCO) and last name (e.g., ?X?JK.B@ 	??gQ?
@ YJ.
?, Abd Al-RahmanAl-Abnudi), a character-based feature that denotes common prefixes of nouns, a POSfeature, and a ?verb around?
feature that denotes the presence of an NE if it is precededor followed by a certain verb.
The system was trained on 90% of the ANERCorp dataand tested on the remainder.
The system was tested with different feature combinationsand the best result for an overall average F-measure was 83.20%.Bidhend, Minaei-Bidgoli, and Jouzi (2012) presented a CRF-based NER system,calledNoor, that extracts person names from religious texts.
Corpora of ancient religioustext called NoorCorp were developed, consisting of three genres: historic, ProphetMohammed?s Hadith, and jurisprudence books.
Noor-Gazet, a gazetteer of religiousperson names, was also developed.
Person names were tokenized by a pre-processingstep; for example, the tokenization of the full name ?Q???
@ 	?K.
?<?
@ YJ.?
?K.
????K.
?
?k(Hassan bin Ali bin Abd-Allah bin Al-Moghayrah) produces six tokens as follows:?Q???
@ ?<?
@ YJ.?
????K.
?
?k (Hassan bin Ali Abd-Allah Al-Moghayrah).
Another pre-processing tool, AMIRA, was used for POS tagging.
The tagging is enriched byindicating the presence of the person NE entry, if any, in Noor-Gazet.
Details of theexperimental setting are not provided.
The F-measure for the overall system?s perfor-mance using new historic, Hadith, and jurisprudence corpora was 99.93%, 93.86%, and75.86%, respectively.10.3 Hybrid SystemsThe hybrid approach integrates the rule-based approachwith theML-based approach inorder to optimize overall performance (Petasis et al.
2001).
Recently, Abdallah, Shaalan,and Shoaib (2012) proposed a hybridNER system for Arabic.
The rule-based componentis a re-implementation of the NERA system (Shaalan and Raza 2008) using GATE.The ML-based component uses Decision Trees.
The feature space includes the NE tagspredicted by the rule-based component and other language independent and Arabicspecific features.
The system identifies the following types of NEs: person, location,and organization.
The F-measure performance using ANERcorpwas 92.8%, 87.39%, and86.12% for the person, location, and organization NEs, respectively.Continuing the research of Abdallah, Shaalan, and Shoaib (2012), the hybridArabic NER system is extended in the following key directions (Oudah and Shaalan2012, 2013): 1) increasing the NEs to 11 types by adding time, measurement, phonenumber, filename, date, price, percent, and ISBN; 2) investigating two more ML501Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2models: SVMs and Logistic Regression; and 3) increasing the features to a largerset by adding morphological features and an English-gloss capitalization feature.The experimental results showed that the hybrid Arabic NER approach outperformsthe rule-based and the ML-based components when they are processed individu-ally.
The performance obtained using ANERcorp for F-measure was 94.4% for person,90.1% for location, and 88.2% for organization NEs.11.
ConclusionNER is one of the most fundamental and important tasks for developing NLP systems.Accurate identification of NEs from the text plays an important role for a range ofNLP systems such as machine translation and information retrieval.
The literaturedemonstrates that explicitly devoting one step of processing to NE identification helpssuch systems achieve better performance levels.There are an increasing number of Arabic textual information resources availableon electronic media, such asWeb pages, blogs, e-mails, and text messages, which makesautomated NER for the Arabic text relevant.
In this survey we have presented variouschallenges to processing Arabic NEs, including highly ambiguous Arabic words, theabsence of rigorous standards of written text, and the current state-of-the-art in ArabicNLP resources and tools.Advances in human language technology require an ever increasing amount of dataand annotation.
The number of current state-of-the-art of Arabic linguistic resources isstill insufficient comparedwith Arabic?s actual importance as a language.Many existingArabic NER resources are annotated manually or are only available at significant ex-pense.
We have described some research that adopted semi-automatic (bootstrapping)methods in order to enrich Arabic NER resources from diverse text types such as Websources and (multilingual) corpora developed within evaluation projects.
In the ArabicNER field, NEs falling under proper names representing person, location, and organi-zation names are commonly applied to newswire domains, reflecting the importance ofthese limited NEs in this domain.We have described three main approaches that have been used to develop ArabicNER systems: linguistic rule-based, ML-based, and hybrid approaches.
Rule-based sys-tems follow a classical approach and ML-based systems follow a modern and rapidlygrowing approach.
The main reasons for choosing the rule-based approach are thelack and limitations of Arabic linguistic resources, optimized platform architectures forrule-based systems, and the high performance of such systems.
In addition, ML-basedapproaches have proven their usefulness as they take advantage of ML algorithmsby building models that include learning patterns associated with individual entitytypes trained from annotated data.
The success of both the rule-based and ML-basedapproaches motivates the investigation of a hybrid Arabic NER approach, yieldingsignificant improvements by exploiting the rule-based decisions on NEs as featuresused by the ML classifier.Features are a critical aspect and are the key component for enhancing the perfor-mance of NER systems.
We reviewed many attempts to select features that investigatethe sensitivity of each entity when applied to different sets of features.
We showedhow researchers applied different techniques that benefit differently from the enabledfeatures and obtain different results for varying NE types.
Some suggest that NER forArabic use not only language-independent features but also Arabic-specific features.Researchers sometimes exploit language-independent features based on promisingvariables, such as lexical and orthographic features, to overcome the problems related502Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationto the Arabic language and orthography.
Lexical features avoid complex morphologyby extracting the word prefix and suffix sequence of a word from the character n-gramof leading and trailing letters.
Orthographic features attempt to overcome the lack ofcapitalization for NEs in Arabic by relying on the corresponding English capitaliza-tion of NEs.
Alternatively, other researchers suggest including a rich set of languagespecific features extracted by Arabic morpho-syntactic tools in order to deeply analyzethe inherent complex structure of NEs within their context.
Regardless of the featuresselected, various studies have reported that significant system performance is achievedwhen a combination that includes all features is enabled.We have discussed many existing tools that have been used to build many differentArabic NER systems.
IDEs are convenient for rapid development of NER systems.GATE is more diversified and comprehensive for developing rule-based Arabic NERsystems because it has built-in gazetteers and rules offering the ability to create newones.
On the other hand, the availability of diverse generic ML tools is sufficient fordeveloping a wide range of Arabic NER classifiers.
The main problem with thesegeneric tools is that they are language-independent with limited support for Arabic.Fortunately, the availability of Arabic morpho-syntactic pre-processing tools, such asBAMA and its successor MADA for morphological processing and AMIRA for BPC,has lessened the need for extensive development efforts.Almost all of the tools adopted for developing Arabic NER provide for systemevaluation by calculating the value of Precision, Recall, and F-measure.
Sometimes it istoo expensive to acquire linguistic evaluation resources to compare a proposed system?sperformance to existing systems.
Fortunately, the increasing contributions from theArabic NLP research community have been sufficient to provide a practical solutionand satisfy the critical need for free corpora and gazetteers (e.g., ANERsys, which canbe used to compare Arabic NER under different experimental settings).We have reviewed the state-of-the-art in Arabic NER systems in some detail.
Itshould be noted that the list of references provided here may not be comprehensive.Our aim was to provide a review of the essential aspects of Arabic NER and discussmajor publications that havemade use of those ideas.
We hope that this survey providesa way to access the main branches of the literature dealing with Arabic NER researchand guides researchers in interesting and fruitful research directions.Since the presence of NE in the context of one language points to a correspondencein other natural languages, studies of NEs in one language could provide mutual andvaluable insight for developing resources and technologies that can handle NEs inmany languages.
This survey describes the progress made by Arabic NER research.This study might be easily extrapolated to most NLP tasks in general and to many ofthe morphologically complex/rich languages in particular.ReferencesAbdallah, Sherief, Khaled Shaalan, andMuhammad Shoaib.
2012.
Integratingrule-based system with classificationfor Arabic named entity recognition.In Alexander Gelbukh, editor,Computational Linguistics and IntelligentText Processing, volume 7181 of LectureNotes in Computer Science.
Springer,Berlin Heidelberg, pages 311?322.Abdel Monem, Azza, Khaled Shaalan,Ahmed Rafea, and Hoda Baraka.
2008.Generating Arabic text in multilingualspeech-to-speech machine translationframework.
Machine Translation,22(4):205?258.AbdelRahman, Samir, Mohamed Elarnaoty,Marwa Magdy, and Aly Fahmy.
2010.Integrated machine learning techniquesfor Arabic named entity recognition.International Journal of Computer ScienceIssues (IJCSI), 7(4):27?368.Abdul-Hamid, Ahmed and Kareem Darwish.2010.
Simplified feature set for Arabic503Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2named entity recognition.
In Proceedings of the2010 Named Entities Workshop (NEWS 2010),pages 110?115, Stroudsburg, PA.Abdul-Mageed, Muhammad, Mona Diab,and Mohammed Korayem.
2011.Subjectivity and sentiment analysis ofmodern standard Arabic.
In Proceedings ofthe 49th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics: Human LanguageTechnologies (HLT 2011): short papers -Volume 2, pages 587?591, Stroudsburg, PA.Abouenour, Lahsen, Karim Bouzoubaa,and Paolo Rosso.
2010.
Using the yagoontology as a resource for the enrichmentof named entities in Arabic wordnet.
InProceedings of The Seventh InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2010) Workshop onLanguage Resources and Human LanguageTechnology for Semitic Languages,pages 27?31, Valletta.Abuleil, Saleem.
2004.
Extracting namesfrom Arabic text for question-answeringsystems.
In Proceedings of the 7thInternational Conference on CouplingApproaches, Coupling Media, and CouplingLanguages for Information Retrieval(RIAO 2004), pages 638?647, Vaucluse.Al-Jumaily, Harith, Paloma Mart??nez,Mart?
?nez-Ferna?ndez Jose?, and Erik Goot.2012.
A real time named entity recognitionsystem for Arabic text mining.
LanguageResources and Evaluation Journal,46(4):543?563.Al-Onaizan, Yaser and Kevin Knight.
2002a.Machine transliteration of names in Arabictext.
In Proceedings of the ACL-02 Workshopon Computational Approaches to SemiticLanguages (SEMITIC 2002), pages 1?13,Stroudsburg, PA.Al-Onaizan, Yaser and Kevin Knight.2002b.
Translating named entities usingmonolingual and bilingual resources.In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meetingon Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL 2002), pages 400?408,Stroudsburg, PA.Al-Shalabi, Riyad, Ghassan Kanaan,Bashar Al-Sarayreh, Khalid Khanfar,Ali AIGhonmein, Hamed Talhouni, andSalem Al-Azazmeh.
2009.
Proper nounextracting algorithm for the Arabiclanguage.
In International Conferenceon IT to Celebrate S. Charmonman?s72nd Birthday, pages 28.1?28.9, Bangkok.Al-Sughaiyer, Imad and IbrahimAl-Kharashi.
2004.
Arabic morphologicalanalysis techniques: A comprehensivesurvey.
Journal of the American Society forInformation Science and Technology,55(3):189?213.Algahtani, Shabib.
2011.
Arabic Named EntityRecognition: A Corpus-Based Study.
Ph.D.thesis, The University of Manchester, UK.Alkharashi, Ibrahim.
2009.
Person namedentity generation and recognition forArabic language.
In Proceedings of theSecond International Conference onArabic Language Resources and Tools,pages 205?208, Cairo.Attia, Mohammed, Antonio Toral,Lamia Tounsi, Monica Monachini, andJosef van Genabith.
2010.
An automaticallybuilt named entity lexicon for Arabic.In Proceedings of the Seventh InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2010), pages 3,614?3,621,Valletta.Babych, Bogdan and Anthony Hartley.
2003.Improving machine translation qualitywith automatic named entity recognition.In Proceedings of the 7th InternationalEAMT workshop on MT and other LanguageTechnology Tools, Improving MT throughother Language Technology Tools: Resourcesand Tools for Building MT, EAMT 2003,pages 1?8, Stroudsburg, PA.Badawy, Osama, Mohamed Shaheen, andAbdelbaki Hamadene.
2011.
ARQA:An intelligent Arabic question answeringsystem.
In Proceedings of Arabic LanguageTechnology International Conference(ALTIC 2011), pages 1?8, Alexandria.Balasuriya, Dominic, Nicky Ringland,Joel Nothman, Tara Murphy, and James R.Curran.
2009.
Named entity recognitionin wikipedia.
In Proceedings of the 2009Workshop on The People?s Web Meets NLP:Collaboratively Constructed SemanticResources, People?s Web 2009,pages 10?18, Stroudsburg, PA.Ben Hamadou, Abdelmajid, Piton Odile, andFehri He?la.
2010a.
Multilingual extractionof functional relations between Arabicnamed entities using NooJ platform.In HAL Archives, pages 1?10, Availableat http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00547940.Ben Hamadou, Abdelmajid, Piton Odile,and Fehri He?la.
2010b.
Recognition andArabic-French translation of namedentities: Case of the sport places.In arXiv, pages 1?10, Available athttps://www.researchgate.net/publication/45898820 Recognitionand translation Arabic-French ofNamed Entities case of the Sportplaces.504Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and ClassificationBenajiba, Yassine, Mona Diab, and PaoloRosso.
2008a.
Arabic named entityrecognition: An SVM-based approach.In Proceedings of Arab InternationalConference on Information Technology(ACIT 2008), pages 16?18, Hammamet.Benajiba, Yassine, Mona Diab, and PaoloRosso.
2008b.
Arabic named entityrecognition using optimized feature sets.In Proceedings of the Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP 2008), pages 284?293,Stroudsburg, PA.Benajiba, Yassine, Mona Diab, andPaolo Rosso.
2009a.
Arabic named entityrecognition: A feature-driven study.IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, andLanguage Processing, 17(5):926?934.Benajiba, Yassine, Mona Diab, and PaoloRosso.
2009b.
Using language independentand language specific features to enhanceArabic named entity recognition.
TheInternational Arab Journal of InformationTechnology (IAJIT), 6(5):463?471.Benajiba, Yassine and Paolo Rosso.
2007.ANERsys 2.0: Conquering the NER taskfor the Arabic language by combiningthe maximum entropy with POS-taginformation.
In Proceedings of Workshop onNatural Language-Independent Engineering,3rd Indian International Conference onArtificial Intelligence (IICAI-2007),pages 1,814?1,823, Mumbay.Benajiba, Yassine and Paolo Rosso.
2008.Arabic named entity recognition usingconditional random fields.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on HLT & NLP within the SixthInternational Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2008),pages 143?153, Marrakech.Benajiba, Yassine, Paolo Rosso, andJose?
Miguel Bened??
Ruiz.
2007.
ANERsys:An Arabic named entity recognitionsystem based on maximum entropy.In Proceedings of the 8th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics andIntelligent Text Processing (CICLing 2007),pages 143?153, Berlin.Benajiba, Yassine, Imed Zitouni, Mona Diab,and Paolo Rosso.
2010.
Arabic namedentity recognition: Using features extractedfrom noisy data.
In Proceedings of the ACL2010 Conference Short Papers, ACLShort2010, pages 281?285, Stroudsburg, PA.Bidhend, Majidi, Behrouz Minaei-Bidgoli,and Hosein Jouzi.
2012.
Extracting personnames from ancient Islamic Arabic texts.In Proceedings of Language Resources andEvaluation for Religious Texts (LRE-Rel)Workshop Programme, Eight InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC 2012), pages 1?6,Istanbul.Bies, Ann, Denise DiPersio, and MohamedMaamouri.
2012.
Linguistic resourcesfor Arabic machine translation: TheLinguistic Data Consortium (LDC)catalog.
In Abdelhadi Soudi, Ali Farghaly,Gu?nter Neumann, and Rabih Zbib,editors, Challenges for Arabic MachineTranslation, volume 322 of NaturalLanguage Processing 9.
John BenjaminsPublishing Company, Amesterdam,pages 15?22.Brini, Wissal, Mariem Ellouze, Omar Trigui,Slim Mesfar, Lamia Hadrich, andPaolo Rosso.
2009.
Factoid and definitionalArabic question answering system.In Proceedings of the NOOJ-2009,pages 1?11, Tozeur.Buckwalter, Tim.
2002.
Buckwalter Arabicmorphological analyzer version 1.0.Technical Report LDC2002L49, LinguisticData Consortium (LDC), Philadelphia, PA.Burkett, David, Slav Petrov, John Blitzer,and Dan Klein.
2010.
Learning bettermonolingual models with unannotatedbilingual text.
In Proceedings of theFourteenth Conference on ComputationalNatural Language Learning, CoNLL 2010,pages 46?54, Stroudsburg, PA.Chen, Hsin-Hsi, Changhua Yang, andYing Lin.
2003.
Learning formulation andtransformation rules for multilingualnamed entities.
In Proceedings of theACL 2003 Workshop on Multilingual andMixed-language Named Entity Recognition,pages 1?8, Boston, MA.Collins, Michael.
2002.
Discriminativetraining methods for hidden Markovmodels: Theory and experiments withperceptron algorithms.
In Proceedings of theACL-02 Conference on Empirical Methods inNatural Language Processing - Volume 10,EMNLP 2002, pages 1?8, Stroudsburg, PA.Cunningham, Hamish.
2002.
Gate, ageneral architecture for text engineering.Computers and the Humanities,36(2):223?254.Cunningham, Hamish, Diana Maynard,Kalina Bontcheva, Valentin Tablan, NirajAswani, Ian Roberts, Genevieve Gorrell,Adam Funk, Angus Roberts, DanicaDamljanovic, Thomas Heitz, Mark A.Greenwood, Horacio Saggion, JohannPetrak, Yaoyong Li, and Wim Peters.
2011.Text Processing with GATE (Version 6).GATE publications.505Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2Diab, Mona.
2009.
Second generation tools(AMIRA 2.0): Fast and robust tokenization,POS tagging, and Base Phrase Chunking.In Proceedings of the Second InternationalConference on Arabic Language Resourcesand Tools, pages 285?288, Cairo.Diab, Mona, Kadri Hacioglu, andDaniel Jurafsky.
2004.
Automatic taggingof Arabic text: From raw text to basephrase chunks.
In Proceedings of HumanLanguage Technology-North AmericanAssociation for Computational Linguistics,HLT-NAACL-Short 2004, pages 149?152,Stroudsburg, PA.El Kholy, Ahmed and Nizar Habash.
2010.Techniques for Arabic morphologicaldetokenization and orthographicdenormalization.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Language Resources andHuman Language Technology for SemiticLanguages in the Language Resources andEvaluation Conference (LREC), pages 45?51,Valletta.Elgibali, Alaa.
2005.
Investigating Arabic:Current Parameters in Analysis andLearning.
Studies in Semitic Languagesand Linguistics Series.
Brill AcademicPublishers, Boston, MA.Elkateb, Sabri, William Black, Piek Vossen,David Farwell, Adam Pease, andChristiane Fellbaum.
2006.
ArabicWordNet and the challenges of Arabic.
InProceedings of Arabic NLP/MT Conference,pages 15?24, London.Elsebai, Ali and Farid Meziane.
2011.Extracting persons names from Arabicnewspapers.
In Proceedings of theInternational Conference on Innovationsin Information Technology, pages 87?89,Dubai.Elsebai, Ali, Farid Meziane, and FatmaBelkredim.
2009.
A rule based personsnames Arabic extraction system.In Proceedings of the 11th InternationalBusiness Information ManagementAssociation Conference (IBIMA 2009),Special Track on Arabic InformationProcessing, pages 53?59, Cairo.Ezzeldin, Ahmed and Mohamed Shaheen.2012.
A survey of Arabic questionanswering: Challenges, tasks, approaches,tools, and future trends.
In Proceedings ofThe 13th International Arab Conference onInformation Technology (ACIT 2012),pages 1?8, Zarqa.Farber, Benjamin, Dayne Freitag, NizarHabash, and Owen Rambow.
2008.Improving NER in Arabic using amorphological tagger.
In Proceedingsof the Sixth International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation(LREC 2008), pages 2,509?2,514, Marrakech.Farghaly, Ali and Khaled Shaalan.
2009.Arabic natural language processing:Challenges and solutions.
ACMTransactions on Asian Language InformationProcessing (TALIP), 8(4):1?22.Fellbaum, Christiane.
2005.
Wordnet andwordnets.
In Keith Brown, editor,Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics.Oxford, Elsevier, pages 665?670.Grefenstette, Gregory, Nasredine Semmar,and Fa?
?za Elkateb-Gara.
2005.
Modifyinga natural language processing system forEuropean languages to treat Arabic ininformation processing and informationretrieval applications.
In Proceedings of theACL Workshop on Computational Approachesto Semitic Languages, pages 31?38,Ann Arbor, MI.Guo, Jiafeng, Gu Xu, Xueqi Cheng, andHang Li.
2009.
Named entity recognitionin query.
In Proceedings of the 32ndInternational ACM SIGIR Conference onResearch and Development in InformationRetrieval (SIGIR 2009), pages 267?274,New York City.Habash, Nizar.
2010.
Introduction toArabic Natural Language Processing.Synthesis Lectures on HumanLanguage Technologies.
Morgan andClaypool Publishers.Habash, Nizar and Owen Rambow.
2005.Arabic tokenization, part-of-speechtagging and morphologicaldisambiguation in one fell swoop.In Proceedings of the 43rd Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics(ACL), ACL 2005, pages 573?580,Stroudsburg, PA.Habash, Nizar, Owen Rambow, andRyan Roth.
2009.
MADA+TOKAN:A toolkit for Arabic tokenization,diacritization, morphologicaldisambiguation, POS tagging, stemmingand lemmatization.
In Proceedings ofthe Second International Conference onArabic Language Resources and Tools,pages 102?109, Cairo.Halpern, Jack.
2009.
Lexicon-drivenapproach to the recognition of Arabicnamed entities.
In Proceedings of the SecondInternational Conference on Arabic LanguageResources and Tools, pages 193?198, Cairo.Hassan, Ahmed, Haytham Fahmy, andHany Hassan.
2007.
Improving namedentity translation by exploitingcomparable and parallel corpora.506Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and ClassificationIn Proceedings of the 2007 Conference onRecent Advances in Natural LanguageProcessing (RANLP 2007), pages 1?6,Borovets.Hassan, Hany and Jeffrey Sorensen.
2005.An integrated approach for Arabic-Englishnamed entity translation.
In Proceedingsof the ACL Workshop on ComputationalApproaches to Semitic Languages,pages 87?93, Ann Arbor, MI.Hewavitharana, Sanjika and Stephan Vogel.2011.
Extracting parallel phrases fromcomparable data.
In Proceedings of the4th Workshop on Building and UsingComparable Corpora, 49th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics(ACL), pages 61?68, Portland, OR.Higgins, Chiara, Elizabeth McGrath,and Lailla Moretto.
2010.
Mturkcrowdsourcing: A viable method forrapid discovery of Arabic nicknames?In Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010Workshop on Creating Speech andLanguage Data with Amazon?s MechanicalTurk, CSLDAMT ?10, pages 89?92,Stroudsburg, PA.Huang, Shudong, Stephanie Strassel,Alexis Mitchell, and Zhiyi Song.
2004.Shared resources for multilingualinformation extraction and challenges innamed entity annotation.
In Proceedings ofthe IJCNLP-04 Workshop on Named EntityRecognition for NLP Applications,pages 112?119, Hainan Island.Kim, SeonYeong, Sung-Hwan Kim, andHwan-Gue Cho.
2012.
Developing asystem for searching a shop name on amobile device using voice recognition andGPS information.
In Proceedings of the6th International Conference on UbiquitousInformation Management and Communication(ICUIMC 2012), pages 1?8, New York City.Korayem, Mohammed, David Crandall,and Muhammad Abdul-Mageed.
2012.Subjectivity and sentiment analysis ofArabic: A survey.
In Aboul-Ella Hassanien,Abdel-Badeeh M. Salem, Rabie Ramadan,and Tai-hoon Kim, editors, AdvancedMachine Learning Technologies andApplications, volume 322 of Communicationsin Computer and Information Science.Springer, Berlin Heidelberg,pages 128?139.Koulali, Rim, Meziane, and Abdelouafi.2012.
A contribution to Arabic namedentity recognition.
In Proceedings of the10th International Conference on ICT andKnowledge Engineering, pages 46?52,Morocco.Kumaran, A., Mitesh M. Khapra, andHaizhou Li.
2010.
Report of NEWS 2010transliteration mining shared task.In Proceedings of the 2010 Named EntitiesWorkshop, NEWS 2010, pages 21?28,Stroudsburg, PA.Lahsen, Abouenour, Karim Bouzoubaa,and Paolo Rosso.
2012.
IDRAAQ: NewArabic question answering system basedon query expansion and passage retrieval.In Online Working Notes/Labs/Workshop ofthe CLEF 2012, Question Answering forMachine Reading Evaluation (QA4MRE)main task, Rome, Italy.Ma, Xiaoyi.
2010.
Toward a name entityaligned bilingual corpus.
In Proceedingsof LREC 2010 Workshop on Methods forthe Automatic Acquisition of LanguageResources and their Evaluation Methods,pages 211?216, Valletta.Maamouri, Mohamed, Ann Bies,Tim Buckwalter, and Wigdan Mekki.2004.
The Penn Arabic treebank: Buildinga large-scale annotated Arabic corpus.In Proceedings of the NEMLAR Conferenceon Arabic Language Resources and Tools,pages 102?109, Cairo.Maloney, John and Michael Niv.
1998.TAGARAB: A fast, accurate Arabicname recognizer using high-precisionmorphological analysis.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Computational Approachesto Semitic Languages, Semitic 1998,pages 8?15, Stroudsburg, PA.Marton, Yuval, Nizar Habash, andOwen Rambow.
2010.
Improving Arabicdependency parsing with lexical andinflectional morphological features.In Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010First Workshop on Statistical Parsing ofMorphologically-Rich Languages,SPMRL ?10, pages 13?21, Stroudsburg, PA.Maynard, Diana, Hamish Cunningham,Kalina Bontcheva, Roberta Catizone,George Demetriou, Gaizauskas Robert,Oana Hamza, Mark Hepple, PatrickHerring, Brian Mitchell, Michael Oakes,Wim Peters, Andrea Setzer, MarkStevenson, Valentin Tablan, ChristianUrsu, and Yorick Wilks.
2000.
A survey ofuses of gate.
Technical Report CS-00-06,Department of Computer Science,University of Sheffield.Maynard, Diana, Hamish Cunningham,Kalina Bontcheva, and Marin Dimitrov.2002.
Adapting a robust multi-genre NEsystem for automatic content extraction.In Donia Scott, editor, Artificial Intelligence:Methodology, Systems, and Applications,507Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 210th International Conference, Varna,Bulgaria, volume 2443 of Lecture Notesin Computer Science.
Springer, BerlinHeidelberg, pages 264?273.Mesfar, Slim.
2007.
Named entity recognitionfor Arabic using syntactic grammars.In Proceedings of the 12th InternationalConference on Applications of NaturalLanguage to Information Systems (NLDB?07),pages 305?316, Berlin.Mohit, Behrang, Nathan Schneider,Rishav Bhowmick, Kemal Oflazer, andNoah Smith.
2012.
Recall-oriented learningof named entities in Arabic wikipedia.In Proceedings of the 13th Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (EACL) 2012,pages 162?173, Stroudsburg, PA.Molla?, Diego, Menno van Zaanen, andDaniel Smith.
2006.
Named entityrecognition for question answering.In Zakerman Covendon, Lowrence andIngrid, editors, Proceedings of the 2006Australasian Language Technology Workshop(ALTW 2006), pages 51?58, Sydney.Mostefa, Djamel, Ste?phane Chaudiron,La?
?b Mariama, Khalid Choukri, andGae?l de Chalendar.
2009.
A multilingualnamed entities corpus for Arabic, Englishand French.
In Khalid Choukri and BenteMaegaard, editors, Proceedings of the SecondInternational Conference on Arabic LanguageResources and Tools, pages 213?216, Cairo.Nadeau, David and Satoshi Sekine.
2007.A survey of named entity recognition andclassification.
Lingvisticae Investigationes,30(1):3?26.Nezda, Luke, Andrew Hickl, John Lehmann,and Sarmad Fayyaz.
2006.
What in theworld is a shahab?
Wide coveragenamed entity recognition for Arabic.In Proceedings of the Fifth InternationalConference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC-06), pages 41?46, Genoa.Oudah, Mai and Khaled Shaalan.
2012.A pipeline Arabic named entityrecognition using a hybrid approach.In Proceedings of the InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,pages 2,159?2,176, Mumbai.Oudah, Mai and Khaled Shaalan.
2013.Person name recognition using the hybridapproach.
In Elisabeth Me?tais, FaridMeziane, Mohamad Saraee, VijayanSugumaran, and Sunil Vadera, editors,Natural Language Processing and InformationSystems, volume 7934 of Lecture Notes inComputer Science.
Springer, BerlinHeidelberg, pages 237?248.Pappu, Aasish.
2009.
Using wikipedia forhierarchical finer categorization of namedentities.
In Proceedings of the 23rd PacificAsia Conference on Language, Information andComputation, pages 779?786, Hong Kong.Petasis, Georgios, Frantz Vichot, FrancisWolinski, Georgios Paliouras, VangelisKarkaletsis, and Constantine D.Spyropoulos.
2001.
Using machinelearning to maintain rule-basednamed-entity recognition andclassification systems.
In Proceedingsof the 39th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 426?433,Stroudsburg, PA.Pouliquen, Bruno, Ralf Steinberger, CameliaIgnat, Irina Temnikova, Anna Widiger,Wajdi Zaghouani, and Jan Zizka.
2005.Multilingual person name recognitionand transliteration.
In arXiv, pages 1?10.Available at http://www.researchgate.net/publication/1959893 Multilingualperson name recognition andtransliteration/file/d912f50ecfc2949c6d.pdf.Ratinov, Lev and Dan Roth.
2009.
Designchallenges and misconceptions in namedentity recognition.
In Proceedings of theThirteenth Conference on ComputationalNatural Language Learning (CoNLL-2009),pages 147?155, Boulder, CO.Refaat, Khaled and Amgad Madkour.
2009.An optimized method for Arabic crossdocument named entity normalization.In Proceedings of the Second InternationalConference on Arabic Language Resourcesand Tools, pages 209?212, Cairo.Ryding, Karin.
2005.
A Reference Grammarof Modern Standard Arabic.
CambridgeUniversity Press, New York.Salloum, Wael and Nizar Habash.2012.
Elissa: A dialectal to standardArabic machine translation system.In Proceedings of the InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics:Demonstration Papers, pages 385?392,Mumbai.Samy, Doaa, Antonio Moreno, andJose?
Guirao.
2005.
A proposal for anArabic named entity tagger leveraging aparallel corpus.
In Proceedings of the 2005Conference on Recent Advances in NaturalLanguage Processing (RANLP 2005),pages 459?465, Borovets.Saravanan, K., Monojit Choudhury,Raghavendra Udupa, and A. Kumaran.2012.
An empirical study of the occurrenceand co-occurrence of named entities innatural language corpora.
In Proceedings508Shaalan A Survey of Arabic Named Entity Recognition and Classificationof the Eighth International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation(LREC 2012), pages 3,118?3,125,Istanbul.Sekine, Satoshi, Kiyoshi Sudo, andChikashi Nobata.
2002.
Extended namedentity hierarchy.
In Proceedings of the3rd International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2002),pages 1,818?1,824, Las Palmas.Shaalan, Khaled.
2010.
Rule-based approachin Arabic natural language processing.The International Journal on Informationand Communication Technologies (IJICT),3(3):11?19.Shaalan, Khaled, Mohammed Attia,Pavel Pecina, Younes Samih, andJosef van Genabith.
2012.
Arabic wordgeneration and modelling for spellchecking.
In Proceedings of the EightInternational Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2012),719?725, Istanbul.Shaalan, Khaled and Hafsa Raza.
2007.Person name entity recognition forArabic.
In Proceedings of the 2007Workshop on Computational Approaches toSemitic Languages: Common Issues andResources, Semitic 2007, pages 17?24,Stroudsburg, PA.Shaalan, Khaled and Hafsa Raza.
2008.Arabic named entity recognition fromdiverse text types.
In Bengt Nordstro?mand Aarne Ranta, editors, Advancesin Natural Language Processing,volume 5221 of Lecture Notes in ComputerScience.
Springer, Berlin Heidelberg,pages 440?451.Shaalan, Khaled and Hafsa Raza.
2009.NERA: Named entity recognition forArabic.
Journal of the American Societyfor Information Science and Technology,60(8):1,652?1,663.Shihadeh, Carolin and Gu?nter Neumann.2012.
ARNE: A tool for named entityrecognition from Arabic text.
In FourthWorkshop on Computational Approaches toArabic Script-based Languages (CAASL4),located at the Tenth Biennial Conference ofthe Association for Machine Translation inthe Americas (AMTA), pages 24?31,San Diego, CA.Smrz, Otakar.
2007.
Functional ArabicMorphology Formal System andImplementation.
Ph.D. thesis, CharlesUniversity in Prague, Czech Republic.Steinberger, Ralf.
2012.
A survey of methodsto ease the development of highlymultilingual text mining applications.Language Resources and Evaluation Journal,46(2):155?176.Steinberger, Ralf, Bruno Pouliquen,and Camelia Ignat.
2008.
Usinglanguage-independent rules to achievehigh multilinguality in text mining.In Francois Fogelman-Soulie, DomenicoPerrotta, Jakub Piskorski, and RalfSteinberger, editors, Mining Massive DataSets for Security: Advances in Data Mining,Search, Social Networks and Text Mining, andtheir Applications to Security, volume 19 ofInformation and Communication Security.IOS Press, Amsterdam, Netherlands,pages 217?240.Steinberger, Ralf, Bruno Pouliquen, andErik Van der Goot.
2009.
An introductionto the Europe media monitor family ofapplications.
In Information Access in aMultilingual World-Proceedings of the SIGIR2009 Workshop (SIGIR-CLIR 2009),pages 1?8, Boston, MA.Strassel, Stephanie, Alexis Mitchell, andShudong Huang.
2003.
Multilingualresources for entity extraction.In Proceedings of the ACL 2003 Workshop onMultilingual and Mixed-Language NamedEntity Recognition - Volume 15, MultiNER?03, pages 49?56, Stroudsburg, PA.Traboulsi, Hayssam.
2009.
Arabic namedentity extraction: A local grammar-basedapproach.
In Proceedings of the InternationalMulti-conference on Computer Science andInformation Technology (IMCSIT 2009),pages 139?143, Mragowo.Trigui, Omar, Lamia Belguith, Paolo Rosso,Hichem Ben Amor, and Bilel Gafsaoui.2012.
Arabic QA4MRE at CLEF 2012:Arabic question answering for machinereading evaluation.
In Online WorkingNotes/Labs/Workshop of the CLEF 2012,Question Answering for Machine ReadingEvaluation (QA4MRE main task), Rome,Italy.
CLEF.Witten, Ian, Eibe Frank, and Mark Hall.
2011.Data Mining: Practical Machine LearningTools and Techniques: Practical MachineLearning Tools and Techniques.
The MorganKaufmann Series in Data ManagementSystems.
Elsevier Science.Yang, Yiming.
1999.
An evaluation ofstatistical approaches to textcategorization.
Information Retrieval,1(1-2):69?90.Zaghouani, Wajdi.
2012.
RENAR:A rule-based Arabic named entityrecognition system.
ACM Transactionson Asian Language InformationProcessing (TALIP), 11(1):2:1?2:13.509Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 2Zaghouani, Wajdi, Bruno Pouliquen,Mohamed Ebrahim, and Ralf Steinberger.2010.
Adapting a resource-light highlymultilingual named entity recognitionsystem to Arabic.
In Proceedings of theSeventh International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation(LREC 2010), pages 563?567, Valletta.Zaraket, Fadi and Jad Makhlouta.
2012.Arabic cross-document NLP for thehadith and biography literature.In Proceedings of the Twenty-FifthInternational Florida Artificial IntelligenceResearch Society Conference (FLAIRS 2012),pages 256?261, Marco Island, FL.Zayed, Omnia and Samhaa El-Beltagy.2012.
Person name extraction frommodern standard Arabic or colloquialtext.
In Proceedings of the 8th InternationalConference on Informatics and SystemsConference (INFOS2012), NLP track,pages 44?48, Cairo.Zitouni, Imed, Jeff Sorensen, Xiaoqiang Luo,and Radu Florian.
2005.
The impact ofmorphological stemming on Arabicmention detection and coreferenceresolution.
In Proceedings of the ACLWorkshop on Computational Approachesto Semitic Languages, Semitic 2005,pages 63?70, Stroudsburg, PA.510
