A Survey and Classification of ControlledNatural LanguagesTobias Kuhn?ETH Zurich and University of ZurichWhat is here called controlled natural language (CNL) has traditionally been given manydifferent names.
Especially during the last four decades, a wide variety of such languageshave been designed.
They are applied to improve communication among humans, to improvetranslation, or to provide natural and intuitive representations for formal notations.
Despitethe apparent differences, it seems sensible to put all these languages under the same umbrella.To bring order to the variety of languages, a general classification scheme is presented here.A comprehensive survey of existing English-based CNLs is given, listing and describing 100languages from 1930 until today.
Classification of these languages reveals that they form asingle scattered cloud filling the conceptual space between natural languages such as Englishon the one end and formal languages such as propositional logic on the other.
The goal of thisarticle is to provide a common terminology and a common model for CNL, to contribute to theunderstanding of their general nature, to provide a starting point for researchers interested inthe area, and to help developers to make design decisions.1.
IntroductionControlled, processable, simplified, technical, structured, and basic are just a few examplesof attributes given to constructed languages of the type to be discussed here.
We willcall them controlled natural languages (CNL) or simply controlled languages.
BasicEnglish, Caterpillar Fundamental English, SBVR Structured English, and AttemptoControlled English are some examples; many more will be presented herein.
This articleinvestigates the nature of such languages, provides a general classification scheme, andexplores existing approaches.As the variety of attributes suggests, there is no general agreement on the charac-teristic properties of CNL, making it a very fuzzy term.
There are two main reasonsfor this.
First, CNL approaches emerged in different environments (industry, academia,and government), in different disciplines (computer science, philosophy, linguistics,and engineering), and over many decades (from the 1930s until today).
People fromdifferent backgrounds often used and continue to use different names for the same kindof language.
Second, although controlled natural languages seem to share important?
Chair of Sociology, in particular of Modeling and Simulation, ETH Zurich, and Instituteof Computational Linguistics, University of Zurich.
E-mail: kuhntobias@gmail.com.Personal Web site: http://www.tkuhn.ch.Submission received: 26 October 2012; revised version received: 7 March 2013; accepted for publication:25 April 2013.doi:10.1162/COLI a 00168?
2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1properties, they also exhibit a very wide variety: Some are inherently ambiguous, othersare as precise as formal logic; virtually everything can be expressed in some, onlyvery little in others; some look perfectly natural, others look more like programminglanguages; some are defined by just a handful of grammar rules, others are so complexthat no complete grammar exists.
This variety makes it difficult to get a clear pictureof the fundamental properties.
This article aims at resolving this problem by giving anoverview of existing CNLs and by providing a general classification scheme.
Generally,this work has several, partly overlapping, goals, ranging from purely theoretical to morepractical objectives (listed in this order): To give us a better understanding of the nature of CNL To establish a common terminology and a common model for CNL To provide a starting point for researchers interested in CNL To help CNL developers make design decisionsAlthough a wide variety of CNLs have been applied to a wide variety of prob-lem domains, virtually all of them seem to be relevant to the field of computationallinguistics.
Among other techniques, they involve lexical analyses, grammar and stylechecking, ambiguity detection, machine translation, and computational semantics.Unsurprisingly, most CNLs are based on English.
For the sake of simplicity, thesurvey presented in this article is restricted to these languages and excludes existingapproaches based on other natural languages, such as German and Chinese.
The clas-sification scheme to be presented, however, is general and not restricted to English inany way.In what follows, the relevant background is discussed (Section 2), a classificationscheme is introduced (Section 3), existing English-based CNLs are classified and de-scribed based on a small sample (Section 4), the results are analyzed (Section 5), andfinally the conclusions are discussed (Section 6).
The appendix shows the full list oflanguages with short descriptions for each of them.2.
BackgroundControlled natural language being such a fuzzy term, it is important to clarify itsmeaning, to establish a common definition, and to understand the differences in relatedterms.
In addition, it is helpful to review previous attempts to classify and characterizeCNLs.2.1 DefinitionAs mentioned earlier, there is no generally agreed-upon definition for controlled naturallanguage and for closely related terms including controlled language, constrained natu-ral language, simplified language, and controlled English.
The following two quotationsillustrate this:A controlled language (CL) is a restricted version of a natural language which hasbeen engineered to meet a special purpose, most often that of writing technicaldocumentation for non-native speakers of the document language.
A typical CLuses a well-defined subset of a language?s grammar and lexicon, but adds theterminology needed in a technical domain.
(Kittredge 2003, page 441)122Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesControlled natural language is a subset of natural language that can be accurately andefficiently processed by a computer, but is expressive enough to allow natural usage bynon-specialists.
(Fuchs and Schwitter 1995, page 1)Both descriptions exhibit a strong bias towards one particular type of CNL (these typesare discussed in more detail subsequently): The first quotation focuses on technicallanguages that are designed to improve comprehensibility, whereas the second one onlycovers languages that can be interpreted by computers.
They agree, however, on thefact that a CNL is based on a certain natural language but is more restrictive.
It is alsogenerally agreed that CNLs are constructed languages, which means languages that didnot emerge naturally but have been engineered.
The use of the term subset is misleadingthough, because many CNLs are not proper subsets of the underlying natural language.Many of these languages have small deviations from natural grammar or semantics.Others make use of unnatural elements such as colors and parentheses to increasereadability and precision.
Some even consider the programming language COBOLa controlled natural language (Sowa 2000a).
The subset relation in its mathematicalsense is clearly too strict to cover a large part of the languages commonly called CNL.Although they all clearly share important properties, the specific languages can bequite different in their coverage and nature.
It is not surprising that O?Brian (2003),who compared English-based CNLs of different types, came to the conclusion thatno common core language can be identified.
To meet these problems, the followingdefinition is proposed here:Definition 1 (long)A language is called a controlled natural language if and only if it has all of thefollowing four properties:1.
It is based on exactly one natural language (its ?base language?).2.
The most important difference between it and its base language (but notnecessarily the only one) is that it is more restrictive concerning lexicon,syntax, and/or semantics.3.
It preserves most of the natural properties of its base language, so thatspeakers of the base language can intuitively and correctly understandtexts in the controlled natural language, at least to a substantial degree.4.
It is a constructed language, which means that it is explicitly andconsciously defined, and is not the product of an implicit and naturalprocess (even though it is based on a natural language that is the productof an implicit and natural process).Properties 2 and 3 are deliberately vague, because it is not possible or desirable to drawa strict line there.
Properties 1 and 3 refer to the N in CNL: naturalness; Properties 2and 4 refer to the C: control.
We will later be able to be a little more precise concerningProperty 3.
We leave it for now, and we can summarize this relatively verbose definitionin the form of the following short version:Definition 2 (short)A controlled natural language is a constructed language that is based on a certainnatural language, being more restrictive concerning lexicon, syntax, and/or semantics,while preserving most of its natural properties.123Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1As a further remark, we should note that the term language is used in a sense thatis restricted to sequential languages and excludes visual languages such as diagramsand the like.
We can verify that Definition 2 includes virtually all languages that havebeen called CNL, and it excludes natural languages (because they are not constructed),languages such as Esperanto (because they are not based on one particular natural lan-guage), and common formal languages (because they lack intuitive understandability).2.2 Related TermsBefore we move on to examine the types and properties of languages, we should discussa number of terms that are related to CNL and are easy to confuse: sublanguage,fragments of language, style guide, phraseology, controlled vocabulary, and constructedlanguage.Sublanguages are languages that naturally arise when ?a community of speakers(i.e., ?experts?)
shares some specialized knowledge about a restricted semantic domain[and] the experts communicate about the restricted domain in a recurrent situation,or set of highly similar situations?
(Kittredge 2003, page 432).
As with controlled nat-ural language, a sublanguage is based on exactly one natural language and is morerestricted.
The crucial difference between the two terms is that sublanguages emergenaturally, whereas CNLs are explicitly and consciously defined.Fragments of language is a term denoting ?a collection of sentences forming a nat-urally delineated subset of [a natural] language?
(Pratt-Hartmann and Third 2006).
Theterm is closely related to CNL and the difference seems to be mainly a methodologicalone: Fragments of language are identified rather than defined, they are closely kept in thecontext of the full natural language and related fragments, and their purpose is ratherto theoretically study them than to directly use them to solve a particular problem.
ACNL can be seen as a fragment of a language ?developed for the purpose of supportingsome technical activity?
(Pratt-Hartmann 2009, page 1).Style guides are documents containing instructions on how to write in a certainnatural language.
Some style guides such as ?How to Write Clearly?
(European Com-mission 2011) provide ?hints, not rules?
and therefore do not describe a new language,but only give advice on how to use the given natural language.
However, other styleguides such as the Plain Language Guidelines (PLAIN 2011) are stricter and do describea language that is not identical to the respective full language.
The question of whethersuch a language can be considered a CNL depends on whether the style guide definesa new language or whether it merely describes good practices that have emergednaturally.Phraseology is a term that denotes a ?set of expressions used by a particular personor group?
(Houghton Mifflin Harcourt 2000).
Typically, this term is used when the gram-matical structure is simpler than in full natural language.
In contrast to sublanguagesand fragments of languages, a phraseology is not a selection of sentences but a selectionof phrases.
Phraseologies can be natural or constructed, and in the latter case they areusually considered CNLs.Controlled vocabularies are standardized collections of names and expressions,including ?lists of controlled terms, synonym rings, taxonomies, and thesauri?
(ANSI/NISO 2005).
Mostly, controlled vocabularies target a specific, narrow domain.
Incontrast to CNL, they do not deal with grammatical issues, that is, how to combine theterms to write complete sentences.
Many CNL approaches, especially domain-specificones, include controlled vocabularies.124Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesConstructed languages (or artificial languages or planned languages) are lan-guages that did not emerge naturally but have been consciously defined.
In this broadsense, the term includes (but is not limited to) languages such as Esperanto, program-ming languages, and CNLs.2.3 Types and PropertiesLet us now turn to the nature of CNLs.
To bring order to their seemingly chaotic variety,more than 40 properties of such languages and their environments have been identified(Wyner et al.
2010).
Many of these properties, however, are fuzzy and do not allowfor a strict categorization.
For the survey to be presented in Section 4, we collect ninegeneral and clear-cut properties and give them letter codes.
As it turns out, however,these properties mainly describe the application environment of languages and not somuch the languages themselves.
For that reason, a classification scheme is introducedin the next section to describe the fundamental nature of CNLs and other languages.In general, controlled natural languages can be roughly subdivided according tothe problem they are supposed to solve (Schwitter 2002): to improve communicationamong humans, especially speakers with different native languages (we will use theletter code C for these languages); to improve manual, computer-aided, semi-automatic,or automatic translation (T); and to provide a natural and intuitive representation forformal notations (F).
The last type includes approaches for automatic execution of texts,which requires, at least conceptually, a mapping to an executable formalism.
As we willsee, these three types emerged at different points in time: Type C is the oldest, type Temerged later, and type F is the most recent of the three.
Although this seems to be asensible and useful subdivision, a simpler version based on just two types dominatesthe literature.
Huijsen (1998) introduced the distinction between ?human-oriented?
and?computer-oriented?
languages.
The former roughly corresponds to type C, the latterto the types T and F. However, Huijsen observes that ?it is often difficult to qualify acontrolled language as either human-oriented or machine-oriented, since often simpli-fication works both ways?
(page 2).
Because these types describe problems rather thanlanguages, reusing a language in a different problem domain can change its type evenif the language itself has not changed at all.
Other similar categorizations include thedistinction between ?naturalistic?
(type C and T) and ?formalistic?
(type F) languages(Pool 2006; Clark et al.
2010) and the distinction between readability and translatability(Reuther 2003).Another apparent fact is that some languages originated from academia (lettercode A), some from industry (I), some from a government or a UN agency (G), andothers from a combination of the three.
In addition, the distinction between generalpurpose languages and those for a particular restricted domain is often discussed (Pool2006).
This is related to the distinction of whether the lexicon is open or closed (Adriaensand Schreors 1992).
We will use the letter code D to denote languages targeting a specificand narrow domain.
A further important difference is the one between written andspoken languages.
We will use W to denote languages that are intended to be written,and S for those that are intended to be spoken.
However, none of these distinctionsseems to describe a fundamental language property: Languages that originated in oneenvironment can later be used in another; the lexicon can later be declared open orclosed; written languages can be read aloud; and spoken languages can be writtendown.The rules that define a CNL can be proscriptive or prescriptive (Nyberg, Mitamura,and Huijsen 2003), or a combination of the two.
Proscriptive rules describe what is125Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1not allowed, whereas prescriptive rules describe what is allowed.
Languages definedby proscriptive rules alone must have some starting point in the form of a given(natural) language.
Languages with only prescriptive rules, in contrast, typically startfrom scratch.
As we will see, there is a close connection of this distinction to the conceptof simplicity as introduced in the next section.Because of their lack of generality, we do not include here more specific low-levelproperties such as the support for subclauses and free compounding (Adriaens andSchreors 1992), specific restrictions on grammatical tenses and modal verbs (O?Brien2003), and support for interrogative and imperative sentences (Wyner et al.
2010).Table 1 summarizes the letter codes.
Any two of these properties can overlap, andtherefore any combination is possible in theory (with the exception that no languageshould be neither W nor S).Finally, there is one additional aspect of constructed languages that deserves at-tention: their life cycle.
Some languages are not much more than abstract ideas, othershave left this stage being applied to concrete problems, and yet others have progressedto widespread application in productive environments.
At different stages of maturity,languages can be discontinued or abandoned, which signifies the end of their life cycle.Obviously, these different stages flow into each other and it is often difficult to name aconcrete year of birth or death (especially the latter, as most CNLs die silently).
Wherepossible, we will keep track of these life cycle properties.3.
PENS Classification SchemeAs we have seen, the CNL properties introduced here describe application domainsrather than the languages themselves.
Certainly, several fundamental languageproperties have been identified and discussed in the literature, such as expressiveness(Mitamura and Nyberg 1995; Boyd, Zowghi, and Farroukh 2005; Pool 2006), complexity(Mitamura and Nyberg 1995), grammar modifications (Pool 2006), understandability,natural look-and-feel, ambiguity, predictability, and formality of definition (Wyneret al.
2010).
However, these properties are all very fuzzy and do not allow for strictcategorization.To construct a principled classification scheme for such fundamental languageproperties, it makes sense to condense them to a few dimensions that are to a largedegree (though not entirely) independent of each other.
Ambiguity, predictability, andformality of definition can be subsumed by a dimension that we can call precision.Table 1Letter codes for properties of CNLs.Code PropertyC The goal is comprehensibilityT The goal is translationF The goal is formal representation (including automatic execution)W The language is intended to be writtenS The language is intended to be spokenD The language is designed for a specific narrow domainA The language originated from academiaI The language originated from industryG The language originated from a government126Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesExpressiveness can make up a second dimension.
Grammar modifications, under-standability, and natural look-and-feel can be combined to a dimension of naturalness.A fourth dimension can be called complexity or?to have a dimension of the type?more is better??simplicity.
This is how we arrive at the four dimensions Preci-sion, Expressiveness, Naturalness, and Simplicity that underlie the PENS classificationscheme.1It seems that all fundamental language properties mentioned in the existing liter-ature fall into one of these general dimensions, or can be broken down into differentaspects that can be mapped to these dimensions.
There are no strong dependenciesbetween any two dimensions (for any dimension pair, it is easy to imagine languagesthat are at the top, bottom, and opposite ends in these two dimensions).
Furthermore,there is no obvious dimension pair that could be merged in a meaningful way.
Together,this seems to indicate that this set of dimensions is minimal yet complete.The development of this scheme originated from the insight that CNLs can beconceptually located somewhere in the gray area between natural languages on theone end and formal languages on the other.
Generally, CNLs are more formal thannatural languages but more natural than formal ones.
For instance, a natural languagesuch as English is very expressive, but complex and imprecise.
A formal languagesuch as propositional logic, in contrast, is very simple and precise, but at the sametime unnatural and inexpressive.
CNLs must be somewhere in the middle, but whereexactly?It seems obvious that all four of the dimensions are continuous in nature or atleast very fine-grained.
In fact, one can argue that each of the dimensions is actuallymultidimensional and that representing it in one dimension is a rough simplification.Such simplifications are necessary, however, in order to get a precise measure for suchvague concepts such as expressiveness.Intuitively, PENS uses a natural language such as English and a formal languagesuch as propositional logic as pegs to span a conceptual space in which differentkinds of controlled natural languages can be placed.
In order to get a general butstrict classification scheme, PENS drastically simplifies things by restricting each ofits four dimensions to five classes, to be numbered from 1 to 5.
These five classes arenon-overlapping and consecutively cover the one-dimensional space between the twoextremes: English on the one end and propositional logic on the other.
For precision andsimplicity, English is on the bottom end of the scale in class 1, which we write as P1 andS1.
Propositional logic is on the opposite end of the scale in class 5, represented withP5 and S5.
For expressiveness and naturalness, the roles are switched: English is at thetop end (E5 and N5) and propositional logic at the bottom (E1 and N1).
In this way, thescheme defines a conceptual space for CNLs that includes natural and formal languagesas special cases.
Combining the four dimensions gives 54 = 625 classes, representedwith shorthand such as P1E5N5S1 for English and P5E1N1S5 for propositional logic.
Thedifficult and interesting part of this intellectual exercise is where and how to draw theborders between the five classes of each dimension.The decision to use five classes for each dimension, and not four or six, is somewhatarbitrary.
A larger number of classes allows for more detailed classifications, althoughit also gets more difficult to come up with strict and objective criteria to define theseclasses.
Five seems to be a good middle ground.1 These four dimensions had first been sketched as ?design principles?
in the author?s doctoral thesis(Kuhn 2010), where ?precision?
was called ?clearness.
?127Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 13.1 PrecisionThe precision dimension of the PENS scheme captures the degree to which the meaningof a text in a certain language can be directly retrieved from its textual form, that is,the sequence of language symbols.
Natural language is very imprecise in this sense,because a large amount of context information is needed to grasp the meaning of typicalsentences.
Formal logic languages, on the other hand, have maximal precision, becausetheir meaning is strictly defined solely on the basis of the possible sequences of theirlanguage symbols.
The symbol grounding problem, that is, the problem of mappingsymbols to their counterparts in the real world, is not considered here, because it affectsall languages, including both natural and formal ones.
On this precision dimension,languages are divided into the five classes P1, P2, P3, P4, and P5, as follows:Imprecise languages (P1).
Virtually every sentence of these languages is vague to a certaindegree.
Without taking context into account, most sentences of a certain complexity areambiguous.
The automatic interpretation of such languages is ?AI-complete,?
whichmeans it is a problem for which no complete solutions are in sight.
These languagesrequire a human reader to check whether a given statement is syntactically correct,and include borderline statements on which readers disagree.
The same applies to thesemantic properties of the language.
All natural languages belong to this category.Less imprecise languages (P2).
For these languages, the degree of ambiguity and vague-ness is considerably lower than in natural languages, and their interpretation dependsmuch less on context.
They restrict the use and/or the meaning of a wide range ofthe respective ambiguous, vague, or context-dependent constructs.
However, these con-structs are still too dominant to make automatic interpretation reliable.
Such languagesare typically not related to a formal (i.e., mathematically precise) underpinning.Reliably interpretable languages (P3).
The syntax of these languages is heavily restricted,though not necessarily formally defined.
The restrictions are strong enough to makeautomatic interpretation reliable.
There is a logical underpinning or at least a formalconceptual scheme, in which the semantics of sentences can be represented.
However,the mapping of sentences to their formal representations is itself not defined in a fullyformal way, but requires external background knowledge, heuristics, or user feedback.Deterministically interpretable languages (P4).
Such languages are fully formal on thesyntactic level; that is, they are (or can be) defined by a formal grammar.
Each textin such a language can be deterministically parsed to a formal logic representation, ora small set of all possible representations (including all and only the possible ones).Based on the underlying formalism, these representations describe the meaning ofthe sentences, but they may be underspecified in the sense that they require certainparameters, background axioms, external resources, or heuristics to enable sensibledeductions.Languages with fixed semantics (P5).
These languages are fully formal and fully specifiedon both the syntactic and semantic levels.
Each text has exactly one meaning, which canbe automatically derived.
The circumstances in which inferences hold or do not hold arefully defined.
What conclusions follow from a given text in the language (e.g., whetherit is consistent and which sentences of the language are a consequence of the text) canbe defined with mathematical rigor, without the help of heuristics or external resources.128Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languages3.2 ExpressivenessThe dimension of expressiveness describes the range of propositions that a certainlanguage is able to express.
A language X is more expressive than a language Y iflanguage X can describe everything that language Y can, but not vice versa.
The relationof ?being more expressive?
does not constitute a total order: For two given languagesof nonequal expressiveness, it can be the case (and often is the case) that neither is moreexpressive than the other.
This entails that ranking a general set of languages in a linearorder according to their expressiveness cannot be done in a completely objective way.A classification scheme, such as the one presented here, must therefore rely on onlya subset of all possible expressiveness features.
These expressiveness features shouldbe general and important ones, and at the same time allow for a balanced and cleardiscrimination between the languages to be classified.
The PENS classification schemeemploys the following five expressiveness features:(a) universal quantification over individuals (possibly limited)(b) relations of arity greater than 1 (e.g., binary relations)(c) general rule structures (if?then statements with multiple universalquantification that can target all argument positions of relations)(d) negation (strong negation or negation as failure)(e) general second-order universal quantification over concepts and relationsFor each of these features to be considered fulfilled, they should be an integral partof the language and not just manifested by a few special cases.
There are a numberof other important features that could be considered, for example, support for existen-tial quantification, equality, and types of supported speech acts (such as declarative,interrogative, directive, and indirect speech acts).
However, to achieve a simple clas-sification into a sequence of five classes, these features will turn out to be sufficientand lead to a classification that seems consistent with the intuitive understanding ofexpressiveness.Because this classification system should not only include declarative formal lan-guages but also informal as well as procedural ones, it makes sense to apply a weakernotion of expressiveness than what is usually applied to logic languages.
From the re-search on programming languages, we can adopt the convention that a certain languageconstruct adds expressiveness if its removal would require ?a global reorganization ofthe entire program?
(Felleisen 1991).
If a certain language construct allows us to expresssomething locally which would otherwise require us to reorganize the entire text, thenwe say that this language construct makes the language more expressive.
This means,for example, that a language with second-order features relying on Henkin semanticsqualifies for the last criterion of the above list, even though Henkin semantics can bereduced to first-order.
A given set of statements written in a language with Henkin-style second-order features cannot generally be reduced to first-order logic withoutglobal reorganization, that is, changing statements that do not actually use second-orderfeatures.
With this qualification, we can define the five classes as follows:Inexpressive languages (E1).
These are languages lacking one or both of the features (a)and (b): They have no universal quantification or no relations of arity greater than 1.Propositional logic belongs to this category.129Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1Languages with low expressiveness (E2).
Such languages have both of the features (a) and(b), but are not E3-languages: They have universal quantification over individuals andrelations of arity greater than 1.
Description logics belong to this category.Languages with medium expressiveness (E3).
These languages have all of the features(a), (b), (c), and (d), but are not E4-languages: They have general rule structures andnegation, in addition to the features of E2.
First-order logic belongs to this category.Languages with high expressiveness (E4).
Such languages have all listed features (a), (b), (c),(d), and (e), but are not E5-languages: They have second-order universal quantificationover concepts and relations, in addition to the features of E3.
Second-order predicatecalculus belongs to this category.Languages with maximal expressiveness (E5).
These languages can express anything thatcan be communicated between two human beings.
Such languages cover any statementin any type of logic.
Obviously, this includes all of the features.
All natural languagesbelong to this category.3.3 NaturalnessThe dimension of naturalness describes how close the language is to a natural languagein terms of readability and understandability to speakers of the given natural language.We define the five classes as follows:Unnatural languages (N1).
These are languages that do not look natural, making heavyuse of symbol characters, brackets, or unnatural keywords.
It might be possible to usenatural words or phrases as names for certain entities, but this is neither required norfurther defined by the language.Languages with dominant unnatural elements (N2).
Natural language words or phrasesare an integral part of such languages, but are dominated by unnatural elements orunnatural statement structure, or have unnatural semantics.
The natural elements donot connect in a natural way to each other, and speakers of the given natural languagetypically fail to intuitively understand the respective statements.Languages with dominant natural elements (N3).
In such languages, natural elements aredominant over unnatural ones and the general structure corresponds to natural lan-guage grammar.
Due to the remaining unnatural elements or unnatural combinationof elements, however, the sentences cannot be considered valid natural sentences.Speakers of the given natural language do not recognize the statements as well-formedsentences of their language, but are nevertheless able to intuitively understand them toa substantial degree.Languages with natural sentences (N4).
These are languages with sentences that can beconsidered valid natural sentences.
Speakers of the respective natural language recog-nize the statements as sentences of their language and are able to correctly understandtheir essence without instructions or training.
Minor or infrequent exceptions andunnatural means for clarification (including text color, indentation, hyphenation, andcapitalization) are permitted as long as they do not disturb the natural look-and-feel130Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languagesand the natural flow of the sentence.
Parentheses and brackets in unnatural positions,however, in most cases do disturb the natural text flow considerably, and are thereforetypically not present in this category.
Although single sentences have a natural flow,this does not scale up to complete texts or documents.
Complete texts in such languagesseem very clumsy and repetitive, and lack a natural text flow.Languages with natural texts (N5).
With these languages, complete texts and documentscan be written in a natural style, with a natural text flow, and with natural semantics.In the case of spoken languages, complete dialogs can be produced with a natural flowand a natural combination of speech acts.We can now be a little more precise concerning our definition of CNL.
Propertynumber 3 of the long version of the definition shown in Section 2.1 says that a CNL?preserves most of the natural properties of its base language, so that speakers of thebase language can intuitively and correctly understand texts in the controlled naturallanguage, at least to a substantial degree.?
We will interpret this in such a way that itonly includes languages of naturalness N3 and higher.
Thus, by this definition, there areno CNLs with N1 or N2.3.4 SimplicityThe fourth dimension is a measure of the simplicity or complexity of an exact andcomprehensive language description covering syntax and semantics, if such a com-plete description is possible at all.
This description should not presuppose intuitiveknowledge about any natural language.
It is therefore not primarily a measure for theeffort needed by a human to learn the language, neither does it capture the theoreticalcomplexity of the language (as, for example, the Chomsky hierarchy does).
Rather, it isclosely related to the effort needed to fully implement the syntax and the semantics ofthe language in a mathematical model, such as a computer program.The PENS scheme applies a very pragmatic and simple indicator for simplicity:The number of pages in natural language needed to describe the language in an exactand comprehensive way.
For languages for which no such exact and comprehensivedescriptions exist or can be written (that do not presuppose linguistic knowledge onthe side of the reader, and given the current state of science), we can distinguishlanguages with the complexity of natural language from languages with considerablylower complexity.These ?exact and comprehensive descriptions?
should define all syntactic andsemantic properties of the language using accepted grammar notations to define thesyntax and accepted mathematical or logical notations to define the semantics.
They areassumed to use scientific writing style as found in scientific articles or technical reports,and should allow a skilled grammar engineer to implement a correct and completeparser within a reasonable time.
The page count should be based on a one-columnformat with up to about 700 words per page.
It is important to note that the criterion isnot the presence of such a description but whether it is possible or not to write one.In order to treat languages with fixed vocabularies and those with extensible onesin an equal way, these language descriptions do not need to include the vocabularies.Concretely, the five classes are defined as follows:Very complex languages (S1).
These languages have the complexity of natural languages.They cannot be described in an exact and comprehensive manner.131Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1Languages without exhaustive descriptions (S2).
These are languages that are considerablysimpler than natural languages, in the sense that a significant part of the complexstructures are eliminated or heavily restricted.
Still, they are too complex to be describedin an exact and comprehensive manner.
Usually, the definitions of such languages justdescribe restrictions on top of a given natural language that is taken for granted.Languages with lengthy descriptions (S3).
Such languages can be defined in an exact andcomprehensive manner, but it requires more than ten pages to do so.Languages with short descriptions (S4).
These are languages for which an exact and com-prehensive description requires more than one page but not more than ten pages.Languages with very short descriptions (S5).
Such very simple languages can be describedin an exact and comprehensive manner on a single page.S1 and S2 are considered complex because they rely on a given natural language.Coming back to a distinction briefly introduced in the previous section, such languagesare typically defined by proscriptive rules, describing what is not allowed compared withthe full language.
S3, S4, and S5, in contrast, typically use prescriptive rules that define thelanguage from scratch.
For that reason, they are simpler in our sense of the word thanlanguages of the first type, which ?import?
the complexity of full natural language.Before we move on to apply this scheme, it should be stressed that PENS is designed tomeasure the nature of a language, not its quality or usefulness.
It should be used to describelanguages, not to rank them.
As the ?perfect?
language does not exist, compromiseshave to be made.
Depending on application area, environment, and goal, differentweights are assigned to the PENS dimensions, and therefore different optimal levelsresult.
In theory, more is better for each of the PENS dimensions, but this does not neces-sarily hold in practice.
A certain level in any of the dimensions is often good enough fora given application domain, and going beyond that level brings no additional benefit.Furthermore, as we restrict ourselves to just five classes per dimension, there can berelatively large differences within one class.
It is inevitable that two languages in thesame class can be farther apart in the respective dimension than two languages inadjacent classes.
Even if a language has higher PENS values in every dimension thananother language, this does not mean that the former is ?better?
in any meaningfulsense of the word.
Having a high PENS score for expressiveness, for example, justmeans that the general expressiveness level is high, and not that the language is able toexpress each and every statement of all languages with a lower score.
Similarly, havinga high score for naturalness does not mean that all aspects of the language are morenatural as compared to all languages with a lower score.4.
LanguagesWe can now turn to the actual survey.
For practical reasons, we restrict ourselves hereto English-based languages, leaving out CNLs that are based on other languages, suchas Chinese, French, German, Greek, Spanish, and Japanese (Pool 2006).
To give anoverview of the different existing English-based CNLs, twelve important and influen-tial languages are introduced here.
The complete list can be found in the appendix;surprisingly, we ended up with exactly 100 languages.
In addition, a handful of otherlanguages for comparison are introduced in the following, such as natural English132Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languagesand propositional logic.
Each language is classified according to the nine propertieswith letter codes and the PENS scheme.
A best guess is made in the cases where notenough information is available.
The descriptions in the appendix are shorter in thecase of similar languages or scarce information.
This data set is also available online asa CSV table.2There are many user interface approaches based on some sort of natural languageinput, and it could be argued that they all?at least indirectly?define and use a con-trolled language, because none of them is able to correctly process full natural language.Such approaches, however, are included here only if the restrictions on the language areconsidered an inherent property of the approach and not a shortcoming of its imple-mentation.
In other words, the following listing excludes languages whose restrictionsare not design decisions of the general approach but practical concessions (e.g., Warrenand Pereira 1982).
The same criterion is applied to verbalization approaches, whichinevitably define a restricted version of the respective language that could be consid-ered a CNL (e.g., Halpin 2004; Jarrar, Keet, and Dongilli 2006; Lukichev and Wagner2006).
Other languages follow an approach called conceptual authoring or WYSIWYM(Hallett, Scott, and Power 2007) where texts are created by short cycles of languagegeneration and user-triggered modification actions.
We include such languages here,because in this case the restrictions on the language are an important aspect of theapproach.
Finally, it should be mentioned that we leave out fictional languages, suchas Newspeak of George Orwell?s Nineteen Eighty-Four.Languages that do not have an official name are introduced by a ?generic namein quotation marks.?
Unless stated otherwise, quotes and examples are taken from thepublications cited in the beginning of each paragraph.4.1 English-Based Controlled LanguagesBelow, twelve selected CNLs are introduced, roughly in chronological order of theirfirst appearance or the first appearance of similar predecessor languages.
For this smallsample, languages are chosen that were influential, are well-documented, and/or aresufficiently different from the other languages of the sample.
?Sowa?s syllogisms?
(Sowa 2000b) are simple logic languages based on the syllogismsoriginally introduced by Aristotle (ca.
350 BC).
Sowa was probably the first to bringthem into the context of CNL, claiming that they are the first reported instance of acontrolled natural language.
Because this survey is restricted to English, Sowa?s versionof the syllogisms is listed here instead of Aristotle?s original version in ancient Greek.The complete language can be described by just four simple sentence patterns:Every A is a B.
Some A is a B.
No A is a B.
Some A is not a B.A and B can be any English common nouns such as cat and animal.
This language isvery similar to the language E0 presented and studied by Pratt-Hartmann (2004), whoused some additional patterns:Every A is not a B.
No A is not a B. P is a B. P is not a B.Here, P can be any English proper name such as Socrates.
We will use the term?Sowa?s syllogisms?
in a sense that includes such similar approaches.
The semantics2 http://purl.org/tkuhn/cnlsurvey/data.133Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1of syllogisms is also very easy to define.
The first four patterns can be mapped tofirst-order logic like this (and similarly for the other patterns):?x( A(x) ?
B(x) ) ?x( A(x) ?
B(x) ) ?
?x( A(x) ?
B(x) ) ?
?x( A(x) ?
B(x) )Hereby, we have an exact and comprehensive description of the language, taking just acouple of lines.
Despite the simple structure of the language, the sentences are perfectlynatural.
Its expressiveness, however, is very restricted: Only very simple sentencestructures are covered and only one-place relations are supported.
?
P5E1N4S5, F W ABasic English (Ogden 1930) is a language presented in 1930 that should improvecommunication among people around the globe.
It is the first reported instance of acontrolled version of English, at least the first one that received broader recognition.It influenced Caterpillar Fundamental English, which became itself a very influentiallanguage.
Basic English was designed as a common basis for communication in politics,economy, and science.
It restricts the grammar and makes use of only 850 English rootwords.
The restrictions are arguably most drastic in the case of verbs.
Only 18 verbsare supported: put, take, give, get, come, go, make, keep, let, do, be, seem, have, may, will,say, see, and send.
These verbs can be combined with prepositions to form more specificrelations such as put in to express insert.
Other verbs can be expressed with the help ofnouns, such as give a move instead of using move as a verb.
The usage of the given wordsand their variants is described by informal grammar rules, for example, ?Collectivenouns may be formed from adjectives when used with the.?
These are two examples ofsentences in Basic English:The camera man who made an attempt to take a moving picture of the societywomen, before they got their hats off, did not get off the ship till he was questionedby the police.It was his view that in another hundred years Britain will be a second-rate power.Many variations exist that use larger word sets.
The Simple English version ofWikipedia,3 for example, claims to use Basic English, but in fact uses a much lessrestricted language.
Basic English is still used today and promoted by a dedicated Basic-English Institute.4 Many texts have been written in this language, including textbooks,novels, and large parts of the bible.
The drastic simplifications on the lexical leveltogether with the grammatical restrictions constitute a significant gain in precisioncompared with full English.
Still, any type of topic can be expressed with a naturaltext flow.
The informal restrictions on the grammar, however, are not strong enough tosignificantly reduce the complexity of the language (in the PENS sense of complexity).?
P2E5N5S1, C WE-Prime or E?
(Bourland 1965) is a restricted version of English with the only restric-tion being that the verb to be is forbidden to use.
This includes all inflectional formssuch as are, was and being, regardless of whether used as auxiliary or main verbs.The language was presented in 1965 but the idea goes back to the late 1940s.
Themotivation for the use of E-Prime is the belief that ?dangers and inadequacies .
.
.
canresult from the careless, unthinking, automatic use of the verb to be.?
E-Prime is claimedby its proponents to enhance clarity.
The statement We do this because it is right would3 http://simple.wikipedia.org.4 http://www.basic-english.org.134Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languagesnot be allowed, but one would have to rephrase it in a way that does not include to be,for example:We do this thing because we sincerely desire to minimize the discrepancies betweenour actions and our stated ?ideals.
?In the area of natural language processing, however, the verb to be is not considered oneof the most difficult problems, which is good evidence that E-Prime is not considerablymore precise than full English in the PENS sense.
Also, in terms of complexity it is notconsiderably different from full English, because words such as become and exist areallowed that can replace the forbidden to be in most cases.
On the other hand, it seemstrue that it is always possible to rephrase a text without the use of to be in a way that isfully natural though possibly longer than the original.
?
P1E5N5S1, C W ACaterpillar Fundamental English (CFE) (Verbeke 1973) was an influential controlledlanguage developed at Caterpillar.
It was officially introduced in 1971, was based onBasic English (Smart 2003), and has been reported to be the earliest industry-basedCNL (Wojcik and Hoard 1997).
The need for a controlled language emerged becauseof the increasing sophistication of Caterpillar?s products and the need to communicatewith non-English speaking service personnel in different countries (Verbeke 1973):?To summarize the problem: There are more than 20,000 publications that must beunderstood by thousands of people speaking more than 50 different languages.?
Theidea of CFE was ?to eliminate the need to translate service manuals?
(Kamprath et al.1998).
A trained, non-English speaking mechanic familiar with Caterpillar?s productsshould be able to understand the language after completing a course on CFE consistingof 30 lessons.
The vocabulary of the language is restricted to around 800 to 1,000 words(Crabbe 2009), with only one meaning defined for each of them (e.g., right only as theopposite of left).
Still, many of the words ?had broad semantic scope and it was assumedthat they would be disambiguated in context by the human reader?
(Kamprath et al.1998).
The following ten rules summarize the grammatical restrictions (Crabbe 2009):1.
Make positive statements.2.
Avoid long and complicated sentences.3.
Avoid too many subjects in one sentence.4.
Avoid too many successive adjectives andnouns.5.
Use uniform sentence structures.6.
Avoid complicated past and future tenses.7.
Avoid conditional tenses.8.
Avoid abbreviations, contractions, andcolloquialisms.9.
Use punctuation correctly.10.
Use consistent nomenclature.These are two examples of CFE sentences:The maximum endplay is .005 inch.Lift heavy objects with a lifting beam only.CFE was discontinued by Caterpillar in 1982, because (among other reasons) ?the basicguidelines of CFE were not enforceable in the English documents produced?
(Kamprathet al.
1998).
As a result, Caterpillar Technical English (see appendix) was developed fol-lowing a different approach: The restrictions on the language should be enforceable, andshould reduce translation costs instead of trying to eliminate the need for translationsaltogether.
The strong lexical restrictions together with some grammatical constraintsmake CFE more precise than full English, but it is not considerably different in terms ofexpressiveness, naturalness, and complexity.
?
P2E5N5S1, C W D IFAA Air Traffic Control Phraseology (FAA 2010) is a controlled language defined by theFederal Aviation Administration (FAA) and used for the communication in air traffic135Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1coordination, going back to at least the early 1980s.
There are other very similar lan-guages for air traffic control such as the ICAO and CAA phraseologies.
To a large extent,these languages are indistinguishable from each other, and together they are sometimescalled AirSpeak (Robertson 1987).
The FAA Phraseology is defined by more than 300fixed sentence patterns such as ?
(ACID), IN THE EVENT OF MISSED APPROACH(issue traffic).
TAXIING AIRCRAFT/VEHICLE LEFT/RIGHT OF RUNWAY.?
This isan example of a statement following that pattern:United 623, in the event of missed approach, taxiing aircraft right of runway.In addition to these explicit patterns, there are many more implicit patterns definedin prose form, for example ?Issue advisory information on .
.
.
bird activity.
Includeposition, species or size of birds, if known, course of flight, and altitude.?
The followingstatement is an example that corresponds to this implicit pattern:Flock of geese, one o?clock, seven miles, northbound, last reported at four thousand.Vocabulary and semantics are restricted too, for example ?Use the word gain and/or losswhen describing to pilots the effects of wind shear on airspeed.?
Phraseology statementscan be mixed with statements in full English in cases where no pattern exists to expressthe desired message.
The language is heavily restricted and much less ambiguous thanfull English.
It is inexpressive in the sense that no universal quantification is supported,and is not sufficiently restricted to make an exact and exhaustive description feasible.?
P2E1N3S2, C S D GASD Simplified Technical English (ASD-STE) (ASD 2013), often abbreviated to Sim-plified Technical English (STE) or just Simplified English, is a CNL for the aerospaceindustry.
Originally inspired by a language called ILSAM (Adriaens and Schreors 1992),the language had its origins in 1979, but it was only in 1986 when it was officially pre-sented for the first time, then under the name AECMA Simplified English.
It receivedits current name in 2004 when AECMA merged with two other associations to formASD.
The main purpose of the language is to make texts easier to understand, especiallyfor non-native speakers.
Although AECMA Simplified English was designed to maketranslation into other languages unnecessary, one of the original goals of ASD-STE wasto improve translation.
Today, the language is maintained by the Simplified TechnicalEnglish Maintenance Group.
ASD-STE is based on English with restrictions expressedin about 60 general rules.
These rules restrict the language on the lexical level (e.g., ?Useapproved words from the Dictionary only as the part of speech given?
), on the syntacticlevel (e.g., ?Do not make noun clusters of more than three nouns?
), as well as on thesemantic level (e.g., ?Keep to the approved meaning of a word in the Dictionary.
Do notuse the word with any other meaning.?).
There is a fixed vocabulary consisting of termscommon to the aerospace domain.
Additionally, user-defined ?Technical Names?
and?Technical Verbs?
can be introduced.
This is an exemplary excerpt of a text in ASD-STE:These safety precautions are the minimum necessary for work in a fuel tank.
But thelocal regulations can make other safety precautions necessary.Even though its restrictions make ASD-STE considerably more precise than fullEnglish, it does not allow for reliable automatic interpretation.
Full expressivenessand full naturalness of unconstrained English are retained, but also its complexity.?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D IStandard Language (SLANG) (Rychtyckyj 2002, 2005) is a language developed at FordMotor Company starting from 1990.
It is designed for process sheets containing build136Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languagesinstructions for component and vehicle assembly plants.
It is still used at Ford andhas been continually extended and updated to reflect technical and business-relatedadvances.
With SLANG, engineers can write instructions that are clear and conciseand at the same time machine-readable.
Based on these instructions, the system can,among other things, automatically generate a list of required elements and calculatelabor times.
In addition, the restricted nature of the language is exploited to translatesuch instructions with the help of machine translation for their use in assembly plantsin different countries.
All SLANG sentences are in imperative mood and follow a certaingeneral pattern starting with a main verb and followed by a noun phrase.
There are ad-ditional restrictions on vocabulary and semantics.
These are two exemplary sentences:OBTAIN ENGINE BLOCK HEATER ASSEMBLY FROM STOCKAPPLY GREASE TO RUBBER O-RING AND CORE OPENINGA parser is used to check for compliance with the restrictions.
English grammar isfollowed with some minor deviations: For example, articles can be dropped and somekinds of modifiers can be used in unnatural ways.
?
P3E1N4S2, C F W D ISBVR Structured English (OMG 2008) is a CNL for business rules first presentedaround 2005.
It is part of the Semantics of Business Vocabulary and Business Rules(SBVR) standard.
It was probably influenced by a language called RuleSpeak that isvery similar and was first presented in 1994.
The vocabulary is extensible and consistsof four types of sentence constituents: terms (i.e., concepts), names (i.e., individuals),verbs (i.e., relations), and keywords (e.g., fixed phrases, quantifiers, and determiners).Each of these has its own color and style, as the following examples show:A rental must be guaranteed by a credit card before a car is assigned to the rental.Rentals by Booking Mode contains the categories ?advance rental?
and ?walk-in rental.
?The SBVR standard provides formal semantics based on second-order logic withHenkin semantics.
The second of the examples makes use of the second-order features.Some keywords have a precise meaning, such as or meaning inclusive logical disjunc-tion (unless followed by but not both).
Other keywords, however, are less precise, such asthe determiner a being defined as ?universal or existential quantification, depending oncontext based on English rules.?
The language strictly defines the permissible sentenceconstituents, but is much less strict in defining the order in which these constituents canbe put.
The syntax structure can be ambiguous (e.g., when using and and or in the samesentence), and so can be quantifier scopes and anaphoric references.
There is no formalgrammar of the language, and its definition depends to some degree on the linguisticunderstanding of a human reader.
?
P3E4N4S2, C F W IAttempto Controlled English (ACE) (Fuchs, Kaljurand, and Kuhn 2008) is a CNL withan automatic and unambiguous translation into first-order logic.
ACE was first pre-sented in 1996 as a language for software specifications.
Later, the focus shifted towardsknowledge representation and the Semantic Web.
The language has been extended overthe years in various ways.
The most notable features of ACE include complex nounphrases, plurals, anaphoric references, subordinated clauses, modality, and questions.These are two exemplary ACE sentences:A customer owns a card that is invalid or that is damaged.Every continent that is not Antarctica contains at least 2 countries.137Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1ACE sentences are deterministically mapped to discourse representation structures, anotational variant of first-order logic.
These expressions, however, are underspecifiedin the sense that many deductions (e.g., when involving plurals or modal verbs) requireexternal background axioms that are not fixed by the ACE definition (these axiomsare external in the sense that they are not necessarily expressible in ACE).
This makesit possible to use ACE in different areas such as ontology editors, rule systems, andgeneral reasoners with semantics that are not fully compatible.
ACE is, with a few minorexceptions, fully natural on the sentence level, but longer texts do not have a natural textflow.
Recently, ACE has also been used in the context of rule-based machine translation(Kaljurand and Kuhn 2013), but translation was not a stated goal during the design ofthe language.
?
P4E3N4S3, F W A?Drafter Language?
(Power and Scott 1998) is a CNL used in a system called Drafter-II.The language is used for instructions to word processors and diary managers.
Thesystem utilizes a conceptual authoring approach: Users cannot directly edit the CNLtext, but they can only trigger modification actions starting from a small stub sentence.In this way, incomplete statements are gradually completed by the user.
The followingexample is a sequence of two incomplete statements showing one such completionstep:Schedule this event by applying this method.Schedule the appointment by applying this method.The first sentence has two missing parts: this event and this method.
At this point, the usercan choose, for example, the appointment to fill in the first missing part, which leads tothe second statement, which is still incomplete but has only one missing part left.
Oncea statement is completed, Drafter-II internally maps it to Prolog expressions, whichare then automatically executed.
As structural ambiguity can be resolved based on thegiven sequence of modification actions, languages following the conceptual authoringapproach do typically not attempt to fully eliminate structural ambiguity.
A given textcan have multiple parse trees, only one of which corresponds to the way it was created.?
P4E1N4S3, F W D AE2V (Pratt-Hartmann 2003) is a controlled language that was introduced in 2001 andcorresponds to the language E3 studied in later work (Pratt-Hartmann 2004).
The ulti-mate goal is ?to provide useable tools for natural language system specification.?
E2Vdeterministically maps to the two-variable fragment of first-order logic.
Because of this,satisfiability of E2V sentences and texts is decidable and computation is NEXPTIMEcomplete.
Two examples of E2V sentences are shown here:Some artist does not despise every beekeeper.Every artist who employs a carpenter despises every beekeeper who admires him.The language is defined by 15 simple grammar rules plus nine predefined lexical rulesfor general words such as every and does not.
A separate, user-defined lexicon containsthe domain-specific words such as artist and admires.
Altogether, E2V is a precise,natural, simple, but relatively inexpressive controlled language.
?
P5E2N4S4, F W AFormalized-English (FE) (Martin 2002) is a CNL for knowledge representation.
It isbased on Conceptual Graphs and the Knowledge Interchange Format, and focuseson expressiveness.
It covers a wide range of features including general universalquantification, negation, contexts (statements about statements), lambda abstractions,138Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languagespossibility, collections, intervals, and higher-order statements (reducible to first-order logic).
Two examples of statements in FE are shown here (the second one ishigher-order):At least 93% of [bird with chrc a good health] can be agent of a flight.If ?a binaryRelationType *rt has for chrc the transitivity?
then ?if ?
?x has for *rt ?y that hasfor *rt ?z?
then ?
?x has for *rt ?z?
?.FE looks natural for simple statements, but becomes quite unnatural for more complexones.
This is due to unnatural use of parentheses, quotation marks, variables, andkeywords such as chrc.
The syntax of the language is defined by about 50 rules in aparser generator language.
?
P5E4N3S3, F W A4.2 Languages for ComparisonFor the analysis to be described in the next section, we will use the following languagesfor comparison, which are not CNLs according to our definition:English is our representative of a natural language.
?
P1E5N5S1, C W SPropositional logic is a very basic logic language.
?
P5E1N1S5, F W AFirst-order logic can be considered an extension of propositional logic.
It is more ex-pressive, but also more complex.
?
P5E3N1S4, F W ACOBOL is one of the oldest programming languages, which some call a controllednatural language (Sowa 2000a).
This is an exemplary COBOL statement:PERFORM P WITH TEST BEFORE VARYING C FROM 1 BY 2 UNTIL C GREATERTHAN 10.Although COBOL uses natural phrases where other programming languages use sym-bols or short keywords, the statement structure does not really follow natural grammar.For that reason, we do not consider it a CNL.
?
P5E2N2S3, F W A I GManchester OWL syntax (Horridge et al.
2006) is a user-friendly syntax for the ontologylanguage OWL.
This is an exemplary expression:Pizza and not (hasTopping some FishTopping) and not (hasTopping someMeatTopping)Instead of logical symbols, natural words such as not and some are used.
The generalstructure, however, resembles formal and not natural languages, which is why we donot consider it a CNL.
?
P5E2N2S4, F W ANaturally, there are many more languages that could be used for comparison, but thislist seems to be a good sample.5.
AnalysisThe data presented in the previous section and in the appendix allow for different kindsof aggregations and analyses.
In particular, the classes and properties of the observedlanguages and the timeline of their evolution are interesting.139Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 15.1 PENS ClassesTable 2 summarizes the PENS classes and properties of the discussed CNLs.
Someinteresting patterns can be found in these data.
Theoretically, there are 54 = 625 possiblePENS classes, but not all of them are observed ?in the wild.?
Some are even practicallyimpossible, as far as we can tell, such as the perfect class P5E5N5S5.
The CNLs intro-duced previously cover 25 distinct classes, which might seem a small number withTable 2Observed PENS classes and properties of CNLs (sorted by PENS class).class properties languagesP1E5N5S1 C T W I IBM?s EasyEnglishC W S G Special EnglishC W A E-PrimeC W G Plain LanguageP2E1N3S2 C S D G CAA Phraseology, FAA Phraseology, ICAO Phraseology, PoliceSpeak, SEASPEAKP2E1N3S3 C W D I Airbus Warning LanguageP2E5N4S1 F W A AIDAP2E5N5S1 C T W D A I ALCOGRAM, COGRAMC T W D A CLCMC T W D I ASD-STE, Avaya CE, Bull GE, CTE, CASL, CE at Douglas, DCE, General Motors GE, PACE, Sun ProofC T W D Wycliffe Associates?
EasyEnglishC T W I iCE, SMART Controlled EnglishC W D I AECMA-SE, CFE, CASE, CE at Clark, CE at IBM, CE at Rockwell, EE, HELP, ILSAM, KISL, NCR FEC W D G Massachusetts Legislative Drafting LanguageC W I Boeing Technical English, NSE, SMART Plain EnglishC W Basic EnglishT W D I MCE, Oce?
Controlled EnglishT W A KCET W I CLOUTP3E1N4S2 C F W D I SLANGF S D I Voice ActionsP3E2N4S3 F W D A RNLSP3E3N3S3 F W A ClearTalkF W I ITA CEP3E3N4S2 F W I CPLP3E4N4S2 C F W I RuleSpeak, SBVR-SEP4E1N4S3 F W D A Drafter Language, MILE Query LanguageP4E1N4S4 F W A Quelo Controlled EnglishP4E1N5S3 T F D A PILLS LanguageP4E2N4S3 F W D A Atomate LanguageF W A I Gellish EnglishF W A GINO?s Guided EnglishF W I CELTP4E3N4S3 F W D A PROSPER CEF W A ACEP4E3N5S3 F W D A ICONOCLAST LanguageP5E1N4S3 F W D A CLEF Query LanguageF W A Ginseng?s Guided EnglishP5E1N4S4 F W D A Coral?s Controlled EnglishF W A PathOnt CNLP5E1N4S5 F W A Sowa?s syllogismsP5E2N3S4 F W D A I TBNLSF W A OWLPath?s Guided English, SQUALLP5E2N4S3 F W A CPE, CLIP, OWL ACE, SOSP5E2N4S4 F W D A BioQuery-CNL, PERMIS CNL, ucsCNLF W A CLOnE, DL-English, E2V, Lite Natural Language, OSEF W G RabbitP5E3N3S3 F W D A CLM, ForTheL, Naproche CNLF W A CLCE, PNLP5E3N4S3 F W D A GherkinF W A G RECONF W A First Order English, PENG, PENG-D, PENG LightF W I iLastic Controlled EnglishP5E4N3S3 F W A FE140Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languagesrespect to the entire PENS space, but they are, as we will see, widely scattered.
Eventhough some hotspots of classes and properties can be identified, the languages exhibita broad variety.Visualization of the languages in the conceptual space can give us a better pictureof the data.
Because the PENS scheme is four-dimensional, it is difficult to visualize alldimensions in a single diagram.
Figure 1 shows a diagram for each of the six possibledimension pairs: The dots represent CNLs in comparison with natural languages suchas English (white dot) and common formal languages (black dots).
Note that the dotsrepresent PENS classes and not individual languages.It is evident that the CNLs are widely scattered between the two extreme cases ofnatural English (white dot) and propositional logic (black dot in the corner).
Seen fromany angle, the set of existing CNLs exhibits wide variation.
Except for the subspacewith a naturalness level of less than 3, where there can be no CNLs by our definition,they cover a large part of the conceptual space.
This indicates that PENS is a powerfulscheme for distinguishing different CNLs.The diagrams also show that the CNL classes form one single cloud, from anyperspective, and not two or more disconnected clouds.
This means that it would bedifficult to come up with a clean categorization scheme that would subdivide the largeand diverse set of existing CNLs.
This seems to justify the decision of using the termCNL in a broad sense and not replacing it by more specific terms.For several dimension pairs, strong correlations are observed.
Precision and sim-plicity are positively correlated: More precise languages tend to be simpler (Spearman?srank correlation coefficient ?
= 0.90, using individual languages as data points andexcluding the languages for comparison).
Expressiveness and simplicity exhibit a strongPrecision1 2 3 4 5Expressiveness12345Precision1 2 3 4 5Naturalness12345Precision1 2 3 4 5Simplicity12345Naturalness1 2 3 4 5Simplicity12345Expressiveness1 2 3 4 5Simplicity12345Expressiveness1 2 3 4 5Naturalness12345Figure 1Visualization of the PENS dimensions of existing CNLs, as compared with natural languages(white dot) and common formal languages (black dots).
Each dot represents a PENS classcontaining one or more languages.141Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1negative correlation: More expressive languages tend to be more complex (?
= ?0.82).In addition, naturalness/expressiveness are strongly positively (?
= 0.77) and natural-ness/simplicity strongly negatively correlated (?
= ?0.76).
At a slightly lesser degree,negative correlation values are obtained for the pairs precision/naturalness (?
= ?0.67)and precision/expressiveness (?
= ?0.66).
These observations seem to be in line withwhat one would intuitively expect.5.2 PropertiesLet us turn to the properties.
Table 3 shows the number of CNLs for each of theproperties we considered and their combinations.
As some languages have been usedmore extensively and over longer periods of time than others, these numbers do notnecessarily reflect the actual importance or popularity of the different language types.The table also shows the average PENS values for each type.
Again, we should be care-ful when interpreting these numbers, as all languages were equally weighted, whichdoes not take into consideration that some languages are much more mature and wide-spread than others.
Nevertheless, these numbers reveal some interesting facts.For a bit less than half of the languages, the goal is to increase comprehensibility.Formal representation is the goal of another, only slightly overlapping, half.
About 22%of all languages have translatability as their goal.
There is a large overlap of the types Cand T, whereas these two barely overlap with F. Existing CNL approaches can thereforebe roughly subdivided into two groups of similar size: One consisting of languages forimproved comprehensibility and translatability, and the other made up of languagesthat have formal representation as their goal.
Mostly, languages of the types C and Tare domain-specific, originated from industry, and focus more on expressiveness andnaturalness than on precision or simplicity.
Languages of type F, in contrast, mostlyhave an academic origin and tend to have a much stronger focus on precision andsimplicity at the cost of expressiveness and naturalness.When it comes to the distinction between written and spoken languages, we see avery one-sided picture: More than 90% of all languages are intended to be written; wefound only seven languages that are intended to be spoken (one of which is intended tobe spoken and written).
The reason for this might be that controlling a spoken languageis much more difficult in practice.
Written texts can be revised and given to a languagechecker before publication, whereas spoken language typically lacks this two-stageprocess.
It is an interesting fact that six out of the seven spoken languages originatedTable 3Properties of existing CNLs with average PENS values.property total combined with property PENS averageC T F W S D A I G P E N SC comprehensibility 45 ?
17 3 40 6 33 4 33 8 2.0 4.3 4.7 1.2T translation 22 17 ?
1 21 0 17 5 18 0 2.0 4.8 5.0 1.1F formal representation 54 3 1 ?
52 1 19 45 10 2 4.4 2.3 3.8 3.2W written 93 40 21 52 ?
1 46 49 42 5 3.3 3.5 4.3 2.3S spoken 7 6 0 1 1 ?
6 0 1 6 2.0 1.6 3.4 1.9D domain-specific 53 33 17 19 46 6 ?
20 29 6 2.8 3.5 4.4 1.9A academia 50 4 5 45 49 0 20 ?
4 1 4.3 2.5 3.9 3.1I industry 43 33 18 10 42 1 29 4 ?
0 2.3 4.3 4.7 1.4G government 10 8 0 2 5 6 6 1 0 ?
2.4 2.5 3.8 2.0142Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languagesfrom a governmental environment.
On average, written languages have higher PENSvalues in all four dimensions.Concerning domain-specificity, the data are balanced.
About half of the languagesare designed for a specific and narrow domain.
The other half follow a more general-purpose approach.
Comprehensibility is the prevalent goal for domain-specific lan-guages, and they mostly originated from industry.
No clear tendencies can be identifiedwith respect to the PENS dimensions.Concerning the last three properties, the data show similar language counts foracademic and industrial CNLs: 50 and 43 languages, respectively.
On the other hand,only ten CNLs were found that originated from a governmental environment.
It has tobe noted, however, that information about CNLs from industry is typically much scarcerthan about languages from academia or governments.
It is therefore likely that most ofthe languages that escaped this survey (because of missing or hard-to-find information)are industrial ones.
Such a bias might also be present in the case of some of the otherproperties as well.
In any case, academia apparently focuses much more on languagesfor formal representation than for comprehensibility or translation, whereas industryseems to have an opposite focus.5.3 Design DecisionsApart from being a description of the current state of the art, Table 3 can be a valuabletool for making design decisions when creating a new CNL.
In such a situation, theapplication environment of the language to be defined is typically fixed, but not yetthe inherent properties of the language itself.
Those inherent language properties aresupposed to be fixed only during the design process.
At the early design stage, Table 3can be used to check the level of previous work on CNLs for a given combinationof environment properties.
It also delivers the PENS classes of a typical CNL in thisenvironment, which can be used to guide the design process.For example, if you intend to create a domain-specific, industrial CNL to enhancecomprehensibility, the table tells you that the combination of these properties is not un-usual at all (at least pairwise combinations).
Furthermore, the table indicates that such alanguage typically has a PENS class somewhere between P2E3N4S1 and P3E5N5S2.
As asecond example, somebody might want to design a CNL for speech translation.
A quicklook at the table reveals that no such CNL has been reported so far, which indicatesthat a significant amount of original work is needed for the design of such a language.We also see that a typical spoken CNL is very different from a typical language fortranslation in terms of expressiveness and naturalness.
This suggests two importantdesign decisions: How expressive should the resulting language be, and how natural?The table can reveal such questions about design decisions, but of course it can-not answer them.
Nevertheless, such information about existing approaches in similarproblem domains and environments can be very valuable to focus the design effort tothe crucial aspects.5.4 TimelineBecause CNLs have been defined and used over many decades and have influencedeach other, it is interesting to draw the evolution of these languages on a timeline, asFigure 2 does.
Each bar represents the ?life?
of a language, that is, the period whenthe language was studied or used.
For some languages, the year of ?birth?
or ?death?is unknown, which is indicated by dashed bars fading in and out.
The vertical lines143Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1Life spans:period when language was studied or useduncertain when language was first studied or useduncertain whether or when language was discontinuedInfluences:reported influenceprobable influenceGoals:comprehensibility (C)translation (T)formal representation (F)1930 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010PoliceSpeakSEASPEAKICAO PhraseologyCAA PhraseologyFAA Air Traffic Control PhraseologyWycliffe Associates?
EasyEnglishPlain LanguageE-PrimeSpecial EnglishBasic EnglishKodak International Service Language (KISL)Clear And Simple English (CASE)Caterpillar Fundamental English (CFE)Caterpillar Technical English (CTE)Diebold Controlled English (DCE)Kant Controlled English (KCE)Controlled English at ClarkControlled English at RockwellHyster Easy Language Program (HELP)Bull Global EnglishNortel Standard English (NSE)SMART Plain EnglishControlled English at DouglasSMART Controlled EnglishASD Simplified Technical English (ASD-STE)AECMA Simplified English (AECMA-SE)Boeing Technical EnglishInternational Language of Service and Maintenance (ILSAM)Controlled English at IBMIBM?s EasyEnglishEricsson English (EE)Multinational Customized English (MCE)Perkins Approved Clear English (PACE)NCR Fundamental EnglishCOGRAMALCOGRAMControlled Automotive Service Language (CASL)General Motors Global EnglishOce?
Controlled EnglishSun ProofCLOUTAvaya Controlled EnglishControlled Language for Crisis Management (CLCM)iHelp Controlled English (iCE)Airbus Warning LanguageStandard Language (SLANG)Massachusetts Legislative Drafting LanguageRuleSpeakSBVR Structured EnglishAIDAVoice ActionsClearTalkPROSPER Controlled EnglishCPLCommon Logic Controlled English (CLCE)ITA Controlled EnglishRestricted English for Constructing Ontologies (RECON)Restricted Natural Language Statement (RNLS)MILE Query LanguageCLEF Query LanguageDrafter LanguageICONOCLAST LanguagePILLS LanguageQuelo Controlled EnglishGellish EnglishGinseng?s Guided EnglishGINO?s Guided EnglishPERMIS CNLCLOnEAtomate LanguageAttempto Controlled English (ACE)Coral?s Controlled EnglishBioQuery-CNLOWL ACEControlled English to Logic Translation (CELT)PENG-DPENGPENG LightSydney OWL Syntax (SOS)RabbitPathOnt CNLE2VLite Natural LanguageDL-EnglishSQUALLOWL Simplified English (OSE)ucsCNLTemplate Based Natural Language Specification (TBNLS)Computer Processable English (CPE)Controlled Language for Inference Purposes (CLIP)Sowa?s SyllogismsFirst Order EnglishPseudo Natural Language (PNL)ForTheLNaprocheControlled Language of Mathematics (CLM)iLastic Controlled EnglishOWLPath?s Guided EnglishGherkinFormalized-EnglishFigure 2The timeline of the evolution of controlled English.144Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languagesshow influences from other languages at the time of birth (solid for reported influences;dashed for influences that are not reported but seem probable).
The colors of the barsrepresent the goals of the languages, as indicated in the legend.The oldest CNL, Basic English, is also the most influential one.
It influenced CFE,and indirectly ILSAM, both very influential languages in their own right.
Altogether,more than 20 languages were directly or indirectly inspired by Basic English.
Amongthe more recent languages, ACE is the most influential in terms of offspring languages.Looking for an overall theme in the evolution of CNL, one can identify somethingthat could be called three ?eras?
: the general, technical, and logical eras.
The general eralasted until the late 1960s or early 1970s.
Only a few languages were defined and usedduring this time, all of which were designed to improve human comprehension and toserve as general languages with no specific application domain or narrow communityin mind.
These languages survived in their small niche, when, during the subsequenttechnical era that began in the early 1970s, CNLs were applied to technical documen-tation for improved human comprehension as well as improved machine translation.Again, this branch of languages did not disappear at the end of the era and continues tobe used today, but a new type of CNL emerged.
During the logical era that began in themid 1990s, many CNLs were created with some sort of mapping to formal logic, whichenabled not only automatic processing but actual automatic interpretation.
These threeeras partly correspond to the three goals introduced in Section 2.3: The first CNLs wereof type C, type T emerged in the technical era, and type F in the logical era.5.5 EvaluationsFinally, we can turn to a crucial aspect that we have not yet discussed: Do CNLs actuallyachieve the goals they were designed for?
A number of studies have been reported thatevaluate the supposed advantages of these languages.
The relevant research questionobviously depends on the goal the language is supposed to achieve.
In their mostgeneral forms, the research questions for the types C, T, and F can be stated as follows:C Does a CNL make communication among humans more precise and moreeffective?T Does a CNL reduce overall translation costs at a given level of quality?F Does a CNL make it easier for people to use and understand logicformalisms?Each of these general research questions can be broken down, and most studies targetmore specific questions.For type C, two studies on AECMA-SE showed that the use of controlled Englishsignificantly improves text comprehension, with a particularly large effect for complextexts and non-native speakers (Shubert et al.
1995; Chervak, Drury, and Ouellette 1996).The results of other studies were similar but not significant (Stewart 1998).
The languageCLCM has been found to have a positive effect on reading comprehension for mostgroups of readers under certain circumstances such as stress situations (Temnikova2012).Concerning type T, it has been reported that the use of the controlled languageMCE for machine-assisted translation leads to a ?five-to-one gain in translation time?
(Ruffino 1982).
Similar results have been presented for the language PACE, with whichpost-editing of machine-assisted translation is ?three or four times faster?
than without145Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1(Pym 1990).
It has been shown that the adherence to typical CNL rules improves postediting productivity and machine translation quality (Aikawa et al.
2007; O?Brien andRoturier 2007).
For the language CLCM, it has been reported that CNL texts are easierto translate than uncontrolled ones (Temnikova and Orasan 2009; Temnikova 2012) andthat the time needed for post-editing is reduced on average by 20% (Temnikova 2010,2012).Studies on type F can be subdivided into those that test the general usability of CNLtools and those that specifically evaluate the comprehensibility of the actual languages.Starting with the usability studies, it has been shown for the language CLOnE that itsinterface is more usable than a common ontology editor (Funk et al.
2007).
Similarly,Coral?s controlled English has been shown to be easier to use than a comparablecommon query interface (Kuhn and Ho?fler 2012).
Positive usability results for CNLtools have also been reported for GINO (Bernstein and Kaufmann 2006), CLEF (Hallett,Scott, and Power 2007), CPL (Clark et al.
2007), PERMIS (Inglesant et al.
2008), Rabbit(Dimitrova et al.
2008), and ACE (Kuhn 2009).
Turning to the comprehensibility studies,it has been shown for the CLEF query language that common users are able to correctlyinterpret given statements (Hallett, Scott, and Power 2007).
ACE has been shown to beeasier and faster to understand than a common ontology notation (Kuhn 2013), whereasexperiments on the Rabbit language gave mixed results (Hart, Johnson, and Dolbear2008).In addition to these high-level evaluations, more specific tests have been reportedsuch as evaluations on coverage (Bernstein et al.
2006; Kaljurand 2007), performance,convergence (Adriaens and Macken 1995), parseability (Wojcik, Harrison, and Bremer1993), computational complexity (Pratt-Hartmann 2003; Thorne and Calvanese 2010),text complexity, and text length (Temnikova 2012).In general, there seems to be good evidence for each of the language types that theuse of CNL can be advantageous.
This does not mean, of course, that CNL approachesalways perform better.
This depends heavily on the precise problem domain, the back-ground of the users, and?perhaps most importantly?the quality of the design of thelanguage and its supporting tools.6.
ConclusionsTo conclude, we can come back to the aims set out in the Introduction of this article.The first goal was to get a better theoretical understanding of the nature of controlledlanguages.
First of all, this article shows that despite the wide variety of existing CNLs,they can be covered by a single definition.
The criteria of the proposed definition includevirtually all languages that have been called CNLs in the literature.
We could showthat these languages form a widely scattered but connected cloud in the conceptualspace between natural languages on the one end and formal languages on the other.The informal statement that CNLs are more formal than natural languages but morenatural than formal ones is substantiated and verified.The next goal was to establish a common terminology and a common model.
Weemphasized the difference between characteristics of the environments of languages onthe one hand and the properties of the languages themselves on the other.
Both aspectsare important, but the second is more difficult to capture in a quantitative way.
Ninegeneral properties have been collected to describe the application environments ofCNLs.
As a novel addition to this model, we proposed the four-dimensional PENSscheme to describe inherent language properties.
This scheme allows for classificationof CNLs on a discrete scale on the dimensions of precision, expressiveness, naturalness,146Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languagesand simplicity.
Together, this allows us to formally model the important properties oflanguages and their environments in a simple way, and to put order and structure to apreviously fuzzy and disconnected field.The third goal was to provide a starting point for researchers interested in CNL.The most important conclusion in this respect is the fact that many more CNLs existthan have been found in any previous survey.
Previously, the most comprehensiveoverview counted 41 CNLs (Pool 2006) based on various natural languages, whereasthis survey covers 100 languages for English alone.
The diversity of languages andthe different environments in which they were studied and used apparently had theconsequence that many CNL researchers and developers were not aware of a largenumber of relevant languages.
As a starting point for researchers, this work presentsa diverse sample of twelve important and influential languages, along with a long listof all CNLs collected.
The introduced model of languages and environments can alsofacilitate the identification of a particular research focus and the collection of relevantprior work.The fourth goal was to help CNL developers make design decisions.
To that aim,the data of this survey can be used to direct developers to existing CNL approachesin a given environment and problem domain.
The data can reveal whether a certainkind of CNL usage is common, rare, or inexistent until now, which can be usedas an indication of the amount of original work required.
Furthermore, the typicallanguage properties of CNLs in terms of precision, expressiveness, naturalness, andsimplicity can be retrieved for a given usage scenario.
This information might bevery useful to identify important design decisions and to find existing approaches tobuild upon.I would like to conclude with the observation that the study of controlled languagesis a very dynamic and highly interdisciplinary field, for the most part occupying smallniches in the academic, industrial, and governmental worlds.
However, adding all theseniches together gives us a large body of past and ongoing work.
Assuming that peoplewill have to interact even more closely with computers and across language borders inthe future, I am convinced that we will see even more work in this area.Appendix A: Full List of English-Based Controlled Natural LanguagesThis is the full list of 100 English-based CNLs in alphabetical order.
See Section 4 for thedetails of this collection.AECMA Simplified English (AECMA-SE) (AECMA 1986) was the predecessor of ASDSimplified Technical English.
See Section 4.1. ?
P2E5N5S1, C W D IAIDA (Kuhn et al.
2013) is a CNL to allow for informal and underspecifiedrepresentations of scientific assertions in an approach for semantic publishing called?nanopublications.?
Single English sentences are used as a scaffold for underspecifiedrepresentations and for the inclusion of informal statements in formal RDF-basedstructures.
These sentences are Atomic, Independent, Declarative, and Absolute (hencethe name AIDA).
This is an example:The degree of hepatic reticuloendothelial function impairment does not differ betweencirrhotic patients with and without previous history of SBP.?
P2E5N4S1, F W A147Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1?Airbus Warning Language?
(Spaggiari, Beaujard, and Cannesson 2003) is a languagefor short industrial warnings, focusing on abbreviations and restricting the word order.This is an exemplary statement:ENG1 REV NOT LOCKED?
P2E1N3S3, C W D IALCOGRAM (Adriaens and Schreors 1992) is a CNL developed at Alcatel.
It originatedfrom COGRAM as an ?algorithmic variant,?
focusing on the use within a computer-aided language learning tool.
In contrast to COGRAM, which consists of threecomponents that declaratively define the language, ALCOGRAM is defined based on afour-staged algorithm.
Each of these four stages checks certain aspects: preparatory tex-tual control (e.g., ?Define technical terms and acronyms in advance?
), syntactic control(e.g., ?Write one instruction per sentence for single actions?
), lexical control (e.g., ?Avoidgender-specific language?
), and micro control (e.g., ?Use words for a number when itis the first word in the sentence?).
These are two examples of ALCOGRAM sentences:Set the switch to the middle.
Press the button on your right.When the test circuit is called, a test tone with the proper transmit level is returned.?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D A IASD Simplified Technical English (ASD-STE).
See Section 4.1. ?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D I?Atomate Language?
(Van Kleek et al.
2010) is part of the Atomate interface, which letsusers define simple automatic tasks and reminders taking context and current activityinto account.
The language was inspired by CLOnE, ACE, and the GINO and Ginsengsystems.
This is an example of such a task definition:Alert me when my location is home on/after Tuesdays at 5pm with the message:Trash day!A special editor supports users in writing such sentences, using a mixture of predictiveediting and conceptual authoring.
The sentences are mapped to RDF and automaticallytriggered when the preconditions are met.
?
P4E2N4S3, F W D AAttempto Controlled English (ACE).
See Section 4.1. ?
P4E3N4S3, F W AAvaya Controlled English (Avaya 2004) is a language for technical publications in thetelecommunication and computing industry.
Its use should reduce translation costs andshould make texts easier to understand for human readers.
It puts restrictions on thelexicon (e.g., ?Do not use abort?
), grammar (e.g., ?Use active voice?
), semantics (e.g.,?Use may only to grant permission?
), and style (e.g., ?Put command names in boldmonospaced type?).
An open list of about 250 words defines preferred terminology forthe given computer and telephony domain, and clarifies usage and meaning of thesewords.
These are two examples of sentences:This procedure describes how to connect a dual ACD link to the server.If the primary server fails, you can use the secondary server.?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D IBasic English.
See Section 4.1. ?
P2E5N5S1, C W148Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesBioQuery-CNL (Erdem and Yeniterzi 2009) is a language for biomedical queries.
Itserves as an interface language for a query engine based on answer set programming.BioQuery-CNL was initially designed as a subset of ACE with some small modificationshandled in a preprocessing step.
The ACE parser was used for processing the language.In later versions, however, the language diverged from ACE and evolved into anindependent language with its own parser.
This is an exemplary query:What are the genes that are targeted by all the drugs that belong to the categoryHmg-coa reductase??
P5E2N4S4, F W D ABoeing Technical English (Wojcik, Holmback, and Hoard 1998) was an extension ofAECMA Simplified English to improve readability and consistency of documents, withthe specific goal to broaden the scope beyond the aviation domain.
The languageseems to have been discontinued and apparently was never deployed at Boeing.?
P2E5N5S1, C W IBull Global English (Smart Communications Inc. 1994) or Bull Controlled English isa language developed at Groupe Bull, a French computer company.It was probably influenced by SMART Plain English.
Bull Global English can besummarized by the following ten rules (Karkaletsis and Spyropoulos 1997), which havea considerable overlap with the rules of Caterpillar Fundamental English:1.
Make positive statements.2.
Keep sentence length 21 words.3.
Avoid false nomenclature.4.
One thought per sentence.5.
Use simple sentence structures.6.
Use active voice and parallel construction.7.
Avoid conditional tenses.8.
Avoid abbreviations and colloquialisms.9.
Use correct punctuation.10.
Use standardized nomenclature.?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D ICAA Phraseology (CAA 2011) is a language for air traffic control introduced by theCivil Aviation Authority (CAA) in the 1980s or possibly earlier.
It is very similar to thephraseologies by FAA and ICAO.
?
P2E1N3S2, C S D GCaterpillar Fundamental English (CFE).
See Section 4.1. ?
P2E5N5S1, C W D ICaterpillar Technical English (CTE) (Hayes, Maxwell, and Schmandt 1996; Kamprathet al.
1998) is the second CNL developed at Caterpillar.
Its development started in1991, that is, almost a decade after the discontinuation of CFE.
Apart from improvingconsistency and reducing ambiguity of technical documentation, the goal of CTE wasto improve translation quality and reduce translation costs with the help of machinetranslation.
This is an example of a CTE text:This category indicates that an alternator is malfunctioning.
If the indicator comes on,drive the machine to a convenient stopping place.
Investigate the cause and determinethe solution.In contrast to CFE, texts in CTE are supposed to be translated before given to personnelin non-English speaking countries.
As a further difference, CTE was designed to be an?enforceable controlled English?
that comes with an authoring tool that enforces thecompliance with the restrictions.
The CTE lexicon consists of about 70,000 terms witha ?narrow semantic scope?
(compared with CFE?s less than 1,000 terms with a broadersemantic scope).
The syntax is restricted, too, including restrictions on the use of con-junctions, pronouns, and subordinate clauses.
CTE comes with a language checker that149Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1allows for interactive disambiguation on the lexical level, enriches the technical textswith SGML annotations, and uses the syntax analyzer of the KANT system (see KANTControlled English).
?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D IClear And Simple English (CASE) (Pym 1990) was a controlled English introduced inthe 1980s at the J. I.
Case Company, a manufacturer of construction and agriculturalequipment.
It descended from CFE.
?
P2E5N5S1, C W D IClearTalk (Skuce 2003) is a CNL for the Semantic Web first presented in the 1990s.Its creator claims that documents in ClearTalk can be ?almost automatically?
trans-lated into a formal logic notation and into other natural languages.
It ?offers a flexi-ble degree of formality?
that lets an author choose to ?leave or remove ambiguity.
?It has been used to encode more than 25,000 facts in different technical domains.ClearTalk is heavily restricted on the syntactic level (e.g., basic sentences have thegeneral form subject predicate complement modifier-phrases) as well as on the semanticone (e.g., the determiner a at subject position represents universal quantification).
Theserestrictions are expressed in a large number of rules.
Two examples of sentences areshown here:Any adverb that modifies a verb must be adjacent to (that verb or another adverb).Mary hopes that [- Bill loves her -].ClearTalk can itself be described in ClearTalk; the first example is from this self-description.
Different forms of parentheses are used to disambiguate different kindsof scopes.
?
P3E3N3S3, F W A?CLEF Query Language?
(Hallett, Scott, and Power 2007) is a language used withina system called CLEF (Clinical E-Science Framework), which should help clinicians,medical researchers, and hospital administrators to query electronic health records.The language was influenced by the Drafter language.
Basic queries are composed ofthree elements: the set of relevant patients, the received treatments, and the outcomes.This is an example:For all patients with cancer of the pancreas, what is the percentage alive at five years forthose who had a course of gemcitabine?Complex queries can have multiple elements of the same type.
The system uses aconceptual authoring approach for writing queries, which are then translated in severalsteps to SQL and given to a database engine.
?
P5E1N4S3, F W D ACOGRAM (Adriaens and Schreors 1992) was a controlled language developed in thelate 1980s for the telecommunication domain (at Alcatel).
It was developed as a re-sponse to the finding that the existing controlled languages AECMA Simplified English,Ericsson English, and IBM?s controlled English were ?incomplete and defective in manyways.?
COGRAM consists of a vocabulary of approximately 5,000 words plus another1,000 technical terms, and a grammar with about 150 rules.
These rules fall into three cat-egories: ?Do not use X,?
?Use only X,?
and ?Avoid (try not to use) X.?
Grammar rules ofthe last type can be seen as style-guides that do not restrict the coverage of the language.The language definition is divided into three components: lexical (e.g., ?Use shortinfinitives of regular action verbs?
), syntactic (e.g., ?Do not use a participle to introducean adverbial clause?
), and stylistic (e.g., ?Expound major topics, restrict minor topics?
).The definition of COGRAM was found to be ?not the most motivating of texts for150Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languagestechnical writers to use in the writing process,?
which led to the development ofALCOGRAM.
?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D A ICommon Logic Controlled English (CLCE) (Sowa 2004) is a language that can betranslated into first-order logic with equality in the form of the Conceptual GraphInterchange Format.
It is defined by a grammar in Backus-Naur form ?that allows everyambiguity to be resolved when a sentence is parsed.?
Some of the most importantsyntax restrictions are: no plural nouns, only present tense, and variables instead ofpronouns.
For an unambiguous mapping to logic, a number of interpretation rules areapplied and parentheses are used to determine the structure of deeply nested sentences.Sentences in this language should be similar to those found in software documentationand textbooks of mathematics, for example:If some person x is the mother of a person y, then the person y is a child of the person x.Declare give as verb (agent gives recipient theme) (agent gives theme to recipient)(theme is given recipient by agent) (theme is given to recipient by agent) (recipient isgiven theme by agent).Imperative sentences, as the second example, are used to import or declare words.Names, nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs, and prepositions can be declared in this way.?
P5E3N3S3, F W AComputer Processable English (CPE) (Pulman 1996; Sukkarieh and Pulman 1999) is acontrolled language that can be ?completely syntactically and semantically analyzed.
?An early version of the language used KIF as its logic formalism, whereas McLogicwas used later on.
The language comes with a bidirectional grammar implemented as aProlog unification grammar.
Two examples are shown here:Every animal X eats some animal that is smaller than X.Every registered user who has borrowed less than ten copies can borrow everyavailable copy.The mapping to logic seems to be deterministic, even though the available literature isnot explicit about this.
?
P5E2N4S3, F W AComputer Processable Language (CPL) (Clark et al.
2005) is a controlled variant ofEnglish developed at Boeing.
It is very different from earlier CNL approaches Boeingwas involved in, such as ASD-STE and Boeing Technical English.
CPL is much morerestricted than these earlier approaches and sacrifices to some degree expressivenessand naturalness for the sake of automated reasoning support.
Basic CPL sentencesare restricted to the pattern subject + verb + complements + adjuncts.
There are furtherrestrictions on the syntax, for example, that definite references have to be used insteadof pronouns.
Statements involving universal quantification are constructed from seventemplates such as ?If sentence1 then typically sentence2,?
where sentence1 and sentence2are basic CPL sentences of the structure introduced above and where typically is areliability degree: one of (almost) always, usually, sometimes, and never.
These are twoexamples of CPL sentences:IF a person is carrying an entity that is inside a room THEN (almost) always the personis in the room.AFTER a person closes a barrier, (almost) always the barrier is shut.151Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1A parser translates CPL sentences into a frame-based language with well-definedsemantics.
In contrast to most other logic-based CNL approaches with custom-builtparsers, the parsing process of CPL involves different external tools and resources.
Anexisting parser for unrestricted English is used to generate an intermediary logical form.Then, WordNet and other resources are used to make a ?best guess.?
The resultinglogical representation is then paraphrased and shown to the user for verification orcorrection.
?
P3E3N4S2, F W IControlled Automotive Service Language (CASL) (Means and Godden 1996; Means,Chapman, and Liu 2000) is a controlled language for writing service manuals and bul-letins at General Motors developed in the 1990s.
The goal was to improve translatability,as well as consistency and readability.
The approach moved from an ?author-centricmodel?
towards a ?hybrid model?
that included the role of an editor, before it went tofull production in 2000 (Godden 2000).
The CASL restrictions are defined by 62 rules,including restrictions on sentence structure, word order, vocabulary, and punctuation.This is an exemplary sentence:Several diseases result from asbestos exposure, with latency periods of 10 to 40 yearsor longer.Writers are supported by a software tool called CASLChecker.
?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D I?Controlled English at Clark?
(Adriaens and Schreors 1992) was a language used atthe Clark Material Handling Company.
It was developed around the late 1980s and wasinfluenced by SMART Plain English.
?
P2E5N5S1, C W D I?Controlled English at Douglas?
(Kleinman 1982) was a language developed in 1979by the McDonnell Douglas aerospace company for their technical manuals.
It was basedon a dictionary of about 2,000 words (most of them verbs), favoring short and simplewords and aiming at a single word per meaning and a single meaning per word.
Inaddition to the words of the dictionary, ?nomenclature words?
can be introduced.
Thegoal was to improve readability, translatability, and standardization.
It was probablyinfluenced by CFE and had itself an influence on AECMA SE.
?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D I?Controlled English at IBM?
(Adriaens and Schreors 1992) was a language developedand used at IBM in the late 1980s.
It was influenced by ILSAM and might have in-fluenced EasyEnglish, which was also developed at IBM several years later.
It reliedon a closed list of words, and writers were assisted by different instruction programs.?
P2E5N5S1, C W D I?Controlled English at Rockwell?
(Adriaens and Schreors 1992) was a language usedat the company Rockwell International.
It was developed around the late 1980s and wasinfluenced by SMART Plain English.
?
P2E5N5S1, C W D IControlled English to Logic Translation (CELT) (Pease and Li 2010) is a controllednatural language presented in 2003.
It is a domain-independent language inspired byACE.
In contrast to ACE, it uses existing linguistic and ontological resources, concretelythe SUMO ontology and WordNet.
These are two exemplary sentences:Dickens writes Oliver Twist in 1837.Every boy likes fudge.The syntax structure of CELT sentences is deterministically parsed.
Heuristics areapplied only afterwards to map the words to SUMO and WordNet.
The language isimplemented as a unification grammar in Prolog.
?
P4E2N4S3, F W I152Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesControlled Language for Crisis Management (CLCM) (Temnikova 2010, 2011, 2012)is a language for writing instructions about how to deal with crisis situations.
Thelanguage is defined by about 80 simplification rules.
These simplification rules in-clude restrictions on text structure (e.g., ?Write a title for every specific situation?
),formatting (e.g., ?Separate with a new line each block of instructions?
), lexicon (e.g.,?avoid technical terms?
), syntax (e.g., ?Avoid passive voice?
), semantics (e.g., ?Useonly literal meaning?
), and pragmatics (e.g., ?Remove unimportant information?).?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D AControlled Language for Inference Purposes (CLIP) (Sukkarieh 2003) is a languagebased on the logic notation McLogic and influenced by CPE.
It is ?semantically driven,?meaning that it was designed around the given logic formalism and not vice versa.
Twoexamples are shown here:Every student who laughs succeeds.Smith and Jones sign five contracts.?
P5E2N4S3, F W AControlled Language for Ontology Editing (CLOnE) (Funk et al.
2007), previouslycalled CLIE Controlled Language, is a CNL designed as a front-end language for OWL,covering only a small subset of it.
It is defined by ten basic sentence patterns.
It addsprocedural semantics on top of OWL to introduce and remove entities and axioms.These are two examples of CLOnE sentences:Persons are authors of documents.Forget everything.?
P5E2N4S4, F W AControlled Language Optimized for Uniform Translation (CLOUT) (Muegge 2007)is a CNL to improve machine translation.
It puts restrictions on the vocabulary andprohibits structures such as passive voice and pronouns.
?
P2E5N5S1, T W IControlled Language of Mathematics (CLM) (Humayoun and Raffalli 2010) is a lan-guage for expressing mathematical texts, as found in textbooks.
The language is similarto Naproche CNL and ForTheL.
The grammar of CLM is implemented in GrammaticalFramework and allows for deterministic translation into first-order logic.
The goal is toautomatically verify mathematical proofs.
?
P5E3N3S3, F W D ACoral?s Controlled English (Kuhn and Ho?fler 2012) is a controlled language for express-ing formal queries to annotated text corpora.
It is influenced by ACE, but is much lessexpressive, simpler, and more domain-specific.
It is embedded into a query interfacecalled Coral to enable users with no particular background in computer science toeffectively use large corpora of annotated texts.
This is an exemplary query:Find all passages where a noun phrase contains a verb phrase; the verb phrase precedesa prepositional phrase; the prepositional phrase contains a verb ?see?
;Such queries are deterministically mapped to AQL, an existing formal query language.The language is defined by 51 simple grammar rules.
?
P5E1N4S4, F W D ADiebold Controlled English (DCE) (Hayes, Maxwell, and Schmandt 1996; Moore 2000)is a controlled language developed at Diebold with the goal to make translation faster153Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1and less expensive by assisting human translators with specific translation tools.
It wasinspired by CTE, but is less strict concerning lexicon and grammar, making the approachmore flexible.
It consists of three main components: a lexical database, a set of grammarrules, and a checking tool.
?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D IDL-English (Thorne and Calvanese 2010) is a Description Logic?based controlled lan-guage presented together with other similar languages to study and compare theircomputational complexity.
It is similar to Lite Natural Language by the same researchgroup.
?
P5E2N4S4, F W A?Drafter Language.?
See Section 4.1. ?
P4E1N4S3, F W D AE-Prime or E?.
See Section 4.1. ?
P1E5N5S1, C W AE2V.
See Section 4.1. ?
P5E2N4S4, F W AEasyEnglish (by IBM) (Bernth 1997), not to be confused with Wycliffe Associates?EasyEnglish, is a language developed at IBM, which might have been influenced byan earlier controlled English at the same company (Adriaens and Schreors 1992).
Themain goal of EasyEnglish was to improve machine translation.
The approach is basedon a sophisticated grammar checker that returns suggestions and warnings.
Apartfrom detecting common grammar errors, the system can enforce the use of a certaincontrolled vocabulary and can spot ambiguities.
For such ambiguities, the system canpropose alternatives, but it is ultimately up to the user whether to follow the system?ssuggestions or not.
The problems encountered in a given document are quantified inthe form of a clarity index, which must be above a certain threshold value.
The factthat the restrictions of the language are not enforced but just suggested does not makethe language more precise or simpler than full natural English.
EasyEnglish has beenextended later to check not only on the sentence level but also on the document level,and this has been implemented in a tool called EasyEnglishAnalyzer (Bernth 2006).?
P1E5N5S1, C T W IEasyEnglish (by Wycliffe Associates) (Betts 2003), not to be confused with IBM?sEasyEnglish, is a controlled language used for transcribing biblical texts.
The originalgoal was to improve the translation process into other languages, but EasyEnglish is alsodirectly used by readers with limited knowledge of English.
The language is restrictedwith respect to lexicon, syntax, and semantics.
There are two levels: Level A makesuse of about 1,200 words, and level B has a larger lexicon of about 2,800 words.
Ineither case, the meaning of these words is restricted.
For example, fair can only meanunbiased, and to see cannot be used in the sense to meet.
It is possible to use wordsthat are not on the list, if they are explained in separate EasyEnglish sentences.
Thefollowing is an excerpt of a text in EasyEnglish (moor is not in the lexicon and has to beexplained):The Highlands of Scotland consist of lakes, mountains and moors.
The moors are flatempty lands where no trees grow.
This land is wonderful and magnificent because it isso empty.There is a strict sentence length limit of 20 words, and paragraphs may not containmore than 150 words.
Sentence structure is kept simple by allowing not more than twofinite clauses and not more than two prepositional phrases per sentence.
Furthermore,deep nesting and passives are restricted.
In addition, texts should adhere to logical154Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural Languagessimplicity: ?EasyEnglish writers are encouraged to identify the basic idea units in acomplex sentence or paragraph and arrange them in logical order.?
?
P2E5N5S1, C T W DEricsson English (EE) (Adriaens and Schreors 1992) was a language developed atEricsson in the early 1980s, influenced by ILSAM.
It is built on a closed list of accept-able words, but other words can be introduced if accompanied by a definition in EE.?
P2E5N5S1, C W D IFAA Air Traffic Control Phraseology.
See Section 4.1. ?
P2E1N3S2, C S D GFirst Order English (Pool 2006) is a controlled natural language that maps to first-orderlogic.
No detailed description of this language is available.
?
P5E3N4S3, F W AFormalized-English (FE).
See Section 4.1. ?
P5E4N3S3, F W AForTheL (Vershinin and Paskevich 2000) is a CNL for mathematical texts similar toNaproche CNL and CLM.
The name stands for ?Formal Theory Language.?
Statementsin this language can be automatically translated into first-order logic with equality.
Thefollowing is an exemplary text:Lemma 1.
Each set has a subset.Proof.
0 is a subset of all sets.
QED.?
P5E3N3S3, F W D AGellish English (van Renssen 2005) is a controlled language designed as a commondata language for industry.
The first version was ready in 1998.
Basically, it consistsof simple subject?predicate?object structures with predefined relations in the formof fixed phrases such as ?is a specialization of?
and ?is valid in the context of.?
Theseare two examples:collection C each of which elements is a specialization of animalthe Eiffel tower has aspect h1h1 is classified as a heighth1 is qualified as 300 mMeta-information about the context of such statements can be expressed in the form ofadditional ?accessory facts.?
Gellish builds upon a fixed upper ontology with a largenumber of predefined concepts and relation types.
Texts in Gellish can be transformedinto a formal tabular representation.
The semantics of the language is not fully formal-ized, which means that there is no mapping to an established logic formalism.
Gellishsupport simple kinds of if?then rules (van Renssen 2011), but these rules do not allowfor universal quantification over several variables in a general way.
?
P4E2N4S3, F W A IGeneral Motors Global English (Means, Chapman, and Liu 2000) or just GlobalEnglish is a controlled language developed at General Motors.
The goal was to improvecomprehension for non-native speakers and translatability.
It is defined by 15 rulesbased on four principles: ?be brief,?
?be clear,?
?be direct,?
and ?be culturally alert.
?These rules include a limit on the sentence length and grammatical restrictions suchas the exclusion of passive voice.
The language evolved from a reduced set of twelveof the 62 rules of the CASL language, which was developed at General Motors severalyears earlier.
In contrast to CASL, Global English does not come with a software tool forchecking the compliance with the restrictions.
?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D I155Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1Gherkin (Nec?as 2011) is a language for writing executable scenarios for software speci-fications.
This is an excerpt of a scenario description:Scenario: Unsuccessful registration due to full courseGiven I am a studentAnd a lecture ?PA042?
with limited capacity of 20 studentsBut the capacity of this course is full[...]The structuring words such as Given, And, and But are fixed.
The restrictions on theremaining text such as ?I am a student?
are implemented in ordinary programminglanguages using regular expressions, and are stored in small modules called ?stepdefinitions.?
The concrete step definitions are not part of Gherkin, but have to beimplemented for the particular task at hand.
Gherkin is therefore highly customizableand extensible, and the classification given here is meant to apply to a typical concretelanguage that is based on Gherkin.
?
P5E3N4S3, F W D A?GINO?s Guided English?
(Bernstein and Kaufmann 2006) is a language used in GINO,a system to query and edit ontologies.
The language was influenced by Ginseng andsupports the same kinds of queries.
In addition, GINO has some limited support forprocedural statements to introduce new entities, for instance:There is a subclass of class water area named lake.Query statements are mapped to SPARQL and procedural statements map to OWLaxioms to be added or modified.
Queries can exhibit structural ambiguity, in whichcase the system evaluates all possible interpretations and shows to the user the union oftheir answers.
The grammar that describes the language consists of 120 grammar rules.?
P4E2N4S3, F W A?Ginseng?s Guided English?
(Bernstein et al.
2006) is a CNL used in a system calledGinseng, which is a query interface to access knowledge bases in the form of OWLontologies.
The vocabulary for the language is loaded from the respective ontologies.These are two examples of queries:What are the capitals of states that border Nevada?Is there a city that is the highest point of a state?The grammar consists of 120 static grammar rules plus additional dynamic rules gener-ated from the ontologies.
?
P5E1N4S3, F W AHyster Easy Language Program (HELP) (Smart 2003) is a controlled English developedin the 1980s for maintenance manuals for lift trucks.
It is based on SMART Plain Englishand thus indirectly on CFE (Pym 1990).
?
P2E5N5S1, C W D IICAO Phraseology (Eurocontrol 2009) is controlled language for air traffic controldefined by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) in the 1980s or evenearlier.
It is very similar to the phraseologies by FAA and CAA.
?
P2E1N3S2, C S D G?ICONOCLAST Language?
(Power 1999) is a CNL to write patient information leaflets.It is similar to the Drafter language.
A conceptual authoring approach is utilized and aformal logic representation is used in the background.
This is a simple example:If you develop a rash, you should consult your doctor.?
P4E3N5S3, F W D A156Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesiHelp Controlled English (iCE)5 is a language developed by iHelp Ltd, a documenta-tion consultancy company.
iCE consists of ?a set of flexible rules and vocabularies forcompanies wishing to standardize and improve their information.?
?
P2E5N5S1, C T W IiLastic Controlled English (iLastic 2012) is a language to allow non-developers to writeintuitive and natural scripts that automatically retrieve, transform, and combine datafrom the Web, databases, files, and other resources.
This is an exemplary statement:delete all files under the tmp folder if the space of the disk is lower than 1024.?
P5E3N4S3, F W IInternational Language of Service and Maintenance (ILSAM) (Pym 1990) is an influ-ential language similar to Caterpillar Fundamental English, from which it was derivedin the 1970s.
?
P2E5N5S1, C W D IITA Controlled English (ITA CE) (Mott 2010) is a controlled language defined by theInternational Technology Alliance, a US/UK military research program.
It is inspiredby CLCE, but is less strict in terms of precision: It has an ?informal meaning and a semi-formal mapping to predicate logic.?
The following are two examples of statements ofdifferent types:if ( the person X has the person Y as brother ) and ( the person Z has the person X asfather ) then ( the person Z has the person Y as uncle ) .
?the plan has failed?
because ?there was a misunderstanding?.The first example shows a ?logical rule?
; the second example is a ?rationale?
statement.Parentheses and variables are used to disambiguate.
Around 90 grammar rules definethe language.
?
P3E3N3S3, F W IKANT Controlled English (KCE) (Mitamura and Nyberg 1995) is a controlled natu-ral language for machine translation used within the KANT translation system.
Thelanguage was first presented under this name in 1995, but it had at that point alreadybeen studied and used for several years.
The focus is on technical documents, and KCEwas the basis for the development of Caterpillar Technical English.
Lexicon, grammar,and semantics are restricted.
In addition, ambiguities are resolved interactively by aug-menting the input sentences with SGML tags.
In the following sentence, for example,the attachment of the preposition ?with twelve rivets?
is ambiguous:Secure the gear with twelve rivets.In KCE, this ambiguity can be resolved by augmenting the sentence with an SGMLtag, for instance ?Secure the gear with <attach head=?secure?
modi=?with?> twelverivets.?
For the classification of the language, the question arises whether the SGMLtags are part of the language or just a method to keep track of decisions concerningambiguities.
The SGML tags positively contribute to the precision of the language butheavily impede its naturalness.
Because such markup tags are usually hidden and be-cause KCE texts are initially written without tags, which are added only afterwards, weconsider them a part of the KANT methodology but not of the controlled language itself.?
P2E5N5S1, T W A5 http://www.lindy-hop.co.uk/iHelp/ice/.157Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1Kodak International Service Language (KISL) is a CNL developed at Kodak in theearly 1980s.
Some see it as a descendant of CFE (Spaggiari, Beaujard, and Cannesson2003).
?
P2E5N5S1, C W D ILite Natural Language (Bernardi, Calvanese, and Thorne 2007) is a CNL based on thelanguage E2V and its variants.
It has a deterministic mapping to DL-Lite, which is alogical formalism optimized for good computational properties and is equivalent to asubset of OWL.
?
P5E2N4S4, F W A?Massachusetts Legislative Drafting Language?
(Massachusetts Senate 2003) is a re-stricted language for legal texts defined by the Massachusetts Senate.
Its purpose is ?topromote uniformity in drafting style, and to make the resulting statutes clear, simpleand easy to understand and use.?
The language is defined by about 100 rules thatrestrict syntax (e.g., ?Use the present tense and the indicative mood?
), semantics (e.g.,?Do not use ?deem?
for ?consider??
), and document structure (?Use short sections orsubsections?).
In addition, there are close to 90 words and phrases that must not beused, with suggested replacements for each of them (e.g., hide instead of conceal, andrest instead of remainder).
?
P2E5N5S1, C W D G?MILE Query Language?
(Piwek et al.
2000) is a language to access maritime rules andregulations.
It follows the conceptual authoring approach in a very similar way as theDrafter and CLEF languages.
?
P4E1N4S3, F W D AMultinational Customized English (MCE) (Ruffino 1982) is a controlled languagedeveloped at Xerox to improve the quality of machine-assisted translation.
It was basedon ILSAM (Adriaens and Schreors 1992).
It uses a restricted domain-specific vocabularyand ?a set of writing rules which encourage a clear, concise English and a minimizationof ambiguities.?
?
P2E5N5S1, T W D INortel Standard English (NSE) (Smart 2006) is a language developed at Nortel, atelecommunications equipment manufacturer.
The development started in 1995 withthe help of SMART Communications, and the language was probably influenced bySMART Plain English.
?
P2E5N5S1, C W D INaproche CNL (Cramer et al.
2010) is a controlled language for mathematical textssimilar to CLM and ForTheL.
Texts in Naproche CNL can be deterministically mappedto first-order logic and then automatically checked for logical correctness.
The followingis an excerpt of a proof written in this language:Axiom 3: For every x, x?
= 1.Axiom 4: If x?
= y?, then x = y.Theorem 1: If x 	= y then x?
= y?.Proof: Assume that x 	= y and x?
= y?.
Then by axiom 4, x = y. Qed.According to its authors, most texts of mathematical textbooks ?can be rewritten in theNaproche CNL in such a way that they resemble the original text.?
?
P5E3N3S3, F W D ANCR Fundamental English (NCR 1978) is a CNL developed at NCR Corporation.
Thelanguage was used for the technical manuals of the company in order to make them?easier to read and use by NCR employees and customers around the world.?
Theseare two examples of sentences:While repairing the unit, the field engineer also performs normal maintenance if it isneeded.No maintenance can be performed until the maintenance lock has been activated.158Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesThe language consists of three parts: nomenclature, glossary, and vocabulary.
Everyword of the language belongs to exactly one of these categories.
The nomenclature isan open set of different kinds of named individual entities, such as names of products,tools, routines, as well as named modes and conditions.
The glossary is another openset of words for technical concepts, such as audit trail, that cannot be replaced by aphrase or brief clause using the words of the vocabulary.
The vocabulary, finally, is themost interesting part.
It consists of a fixed set of 1,350 words (verbs, nouns, adverbs,adjectives, pronouns, prepositions, articles, and conjunctions) plus 650 abbreviations.The content of the vocabulary ranges from fundamental words such as a, not, and into domain-specific terms such as testware, calibrate, and taxable.
The meaning of thesewords is restricted, and each comes with a definition in full English.
The noun medium,for instance, is defined as ?a method of payment?
and must not be used in any othersense.
The grammar is not explicitly restricted.
?
P2E5N5S1, C W D IOce?
Controlled English (Cucchiarini 2002) is a controlled language developed at Oce?,a Dutch company in the printing and copying business.
Oce?
Controlled English iscombined with traditional machine translation techniques to improve the translationquality of the company?s documentation in 17 different languages.
One of the importantproperties of the language is that it leads to more concise texts.
For example, instead of?In several windows, an icon shows the current status/activity of a printer.
See the listbelow for a description of each status.
?, one would write:These icons show the status or activity of the copier.The language is implemented with the help of the MAXit Checker by SMART Commu-nications.
?
P2E5N5S1, T W D IOWL ACE (Kaljurand and Fuchs 2006) is a controlled language for the ontology lan-guage OWL.
Syntactically, it is a subset of ACE.
Semantically, it is tailored towardsthe expressiveness of OWL and is more specific than ACE with its underspecifiedsemantics, particularly in the case of plurals.
Thus, OWL ACE is more precise but lessexpressive than ACE.
?
P5E2N4S3, F W A?OWLPath?s Guided English?
(Valencia-Garc?
?a et al.
2011) is a query language for atool called OWLPath, with which ontologies can be queried.
Statements in this languagestart with the phrase View any.
These are two examples:View any COMMODITY has quoted price in BMF.View any COMPANY whose STOCK PRICE.lastTrade is greater than $30 andis included in Dow Jones in 2009-04-24.These statements are translated into the SPARQL query language.
Even though theirstructure roughly follows English grammar, they cannot be considered valid Englishsentences.
?
P5E2N3S4, F W AOWL Simplified English (Power 2012) is a controlled language for the Semantic Web.In contrast to most other approaches, there is no real lexicon, neither built-in nor user-defined.
Only a very small number of function words are predefined, and users haveto list the verbs they intend to use.
All other word categories are inferred based onsyntactic clues such as capitalization and adjacent words.
This is an example (assumingthat governed and lives are listed as verbs):London is capital of a country that is governed by a man that lives in Downing Street.?
P5E2N4S4, F W A159Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1?PathOnt CNL?
(Kim et al.
2005; Namgoong and Kim 2007) is a controlled languagedeveloped for a tool called PathOnt.
The tool is multilingual, supporting English andKorean.
Statements in this language are deterministically mapped to RDF triples.
Theseare two exemplary sentences:Nam is a student supervised by a professor named Kim.A received specimen fixed in formalin is a soft tissue mass.The language seems to cover only simple existential statements.
?
P5E1N4S4, F W APENG (Schwitter 2002) is a controlled language whose name stands for ?ProcessableEnglish.?
It is a rich but unambiguous language that can be automatically translatedvia discourse representation structures into first-order logic with equality.
It is inspiredby ACE, and the approach has a strong focus on predictive editing.
These are twoexamples:Every animal A eats all plants or eats all animals B that are smaller than A and that eatsome plants.While the fox sleeps, the cat chases a bird.?
P5E3N4S3, F W APENG-D (Schwitter and Tilbrook 2004) is a language derived from PENG, the maindifference being that PENG-D builds upon RDF and OWL instead of discourse repre-sentation structures.
?
P5E3N4S3, F W APENG Light (Schwitter 2008) is another language derived from PENG.
It maps to theTPTP notation for first-order logic.
?
P5E3N4S3, F W APerkins Approved Clear English (PACE) (Pym 1990) is a controlled language devel-oped at Perkins, a diesel engine manufacturer and now a subsidiary of Caterpillar.
Thelanguage was introduced in 1980 and was based on ILSAM.
The goal was to improvemachine-assisted translation.
In order to avoid the use of synonyms, PACE comes witha dictionary that has been gradually extended and counted 2,500 entries in 1990, suchas ?passage (n): A drilling along which a fluid moves.?
PACE is summarized in ?TenRules of Simplified Writing?:1.
keep sentences short2.
omit redundant words3.
order the parts of the sentence logically4.
do not change constructions in midsentence5.
take care with the logic of ?and?
and ?or?6.
avoid elliptical constructions7.
do not omit conjunctions or relatives8.
adhere to the PACE dictionary9.
avoid strings of nouns10.
do not use ?ing?
unless the wordappears thus in the PACE dictionaryThe aim of the first five rules is to make the text short and simple, and the last fiverules have the somewhat opposing objective to make the text more explicit.
This is anexample consisting of two PACE sentences:Loosen the pivot fasteners of the dynamo or of the alternator.
Loosen also the fastenersof the adjustment link.?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D I160Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesPERMIS Controlled Natural Language (Inglesant et al.
2008) is a language for express-ing access control policies for grid computing environments.
It is based on CLOnEwith specific extensions for authorization policies:Staff can print on HP Laserjet 1.I trust David to say who managers are.Such statements are mapped to different formal target notations.
Each statement followsone of only nine statement patterns.
?
P5E2N4S4, F W D A?PILLS Language?
(Bouayad-Agha, Power, and Belz 2002) is a language for medicalinformation documents used in a system called PILLS.
It follows a similar editing ap-proach as the ICONOCLAST language, which was developed a couple of years earlierby the same research group.
With the PILLS approach, different types of documentscan be automatically generated from a master document and translated into differentlanguages.
?
P4E1N5S3, T F D APlain Language or Plain English (SEC 1998; PLAIN 2011) is an initiative by the USgovernment and other organizations.
It had its origins in the 1970s with the goal tomake official documents easier to understand and less bureaucratic.
?Use pronouns tospeak directly to readers?
and ?Avoid double negatives and exceptions to exceptions?are two exemplary rules.
Unlike other such style guides, many of the guideline rules arestrict and, with the Plain Writing Act of 2010, US governmental agencies are obliged tocomply with them.
With the focus being on human understandability and acceptance,documents in Plain Language do not seem to be considerably more precise or simplerfrom a computational point of view, when compared to full English.
?
P1E5N5S1, C W GPoliceSpeak (Johnson 2000) is a language developed to improve police communicationsof English and French officers at the Channel Tunnel.
The goal was to ?make policecommunications more concise, more predictable, more stable and less ambiguous.?
Theproject was launched in 1988 and the language was ready in 1992.
It has a similar goaland application area as SEASPEAK and the different air traffic control phraseologies.?
P2E1N3S2, C S D G?PROSPER Controlled English?
(Grover et al.
2000) is a language for the specificationand verification of hardware designs, developed in the late 1990s.
The language is basedon a restricted version of a general English grammar.
Sentences of the language can beautomatically mapped to a certain type of temporal logic.
This is an exemplary sentence:If sigi is high and then is low on the next cycle, then sigo is low and after one cyclebecomes high and then after one more cycle becomes low.Ambiguity is not completely eliminated, but ambiguous sentences can be automaticallyspotted and reported to the user.
?
P4E3N4S3, F W D APseudo Natural Language (PNL) (Marchiori 2004) is a language designed as a user-friendly language for the Semantic Web.
It builds upon RDF and first-order logic, anduses Prolog to calculate inferences.
These are two exemplary sentences:JOHN represents the person ?John Smith?
from the company?http:// www.example.com/staff?.if IMPLY has as ARGUMENTS X and Y in this order, then X LOGICAL-IMPLY Y.Upper-case words such as JOHN act as variables that can be instantiated with concretedefinitions involving URIs.
PNL is unambiguous and has well-defined semantics, but161Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1unnatural capitalization mitigates the naturalness of the language.
Its structure lookssimple at first sight, but rather complex rules have to be applied in order to resolveambiguous syntax trees.
?
P5E3N3S3, F W A?Quelo Controlled English?
(Franconi et al.
2011) is a language introduced in 2010 andused in a query interface called Quelo.
This is an exemplary query:I am looking for something.
It should be equipped with an automatic transmissionsystem and sold by a car dealer.
The car dealer should sell a fleet car.Following a conceptual authoring approach, users cannot directly edit the sentences,but they can trigger modification actions on the underlying formal representation.?
P4E1N4S4, F W ARabbit (Hart, Johnson, and Dolbear 2008) is a controlled language for OWL.
It has beendeveloped and used by Ordnance Survey, Great Britain?s national mapping agency.Rabbit is designed for a specific scenario, in which it is used for the communicationbetween domain experts and ontology engineers to create ontologies.
Three typesof statements are supported: declarations, axioms, and import statements.
These areexamples of the first and second type:Sheep is a concept, plural Sheep.Every River flows into exactly one of River, Lake or Sea.The language is quite simple, being defined by a small number of sentence patterns andsome modifications thereof.
?
P5E2N4S4, F W GRestricted English for Constructing Ontologies (RECON) (Barkmeyer and Mattas2012) is a language to represent facts and rules in an industrial environment, wherethese facts and rules have a deterministic mapping to first-order logic.
This is anexemplary sentence:If any container contains part of a shipment, it contains no other shipment.The language is defined by around 200 rules in Backus-Naur form.
?
P5E3N4S3, F W A GRestricted Natural Language Statements (RNLS) (Breaux and Anto?n 2005; Breaux,Anto?n, and Doyle 2008) is a language for policy statements and software engineeringgoals introduced in 2004.
The following are two exemplary RNLS statements:RNLS #1: The customer will select access codes.RNLS #2: The provider will recommend (RNLS #1) to the customer.The second sentence refers to the first one using its identifier RNLS #1.
There is amapping between RNLS and Description Logic, but it is not clear whether this mappingis automated.
?
P3E2N4S3, F W D ARuleSpeak (Ross 2003; OMG 2008; Ross 2013) is a CNL for business rules.
The de-velopment of the language started in 1985 and it was first presented in 1994.
It isvery similar to SBVR Structured English, which emerged later.
Each RuleSpeak rulebelongs to one of eleven ?functional categories?
such as ?computation rule,?
?inferencerule,?
and ?process trigger.?
For each of these categories specific templates are defined.162Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesComputation rules, for example, contain the phrase ?must be computed as?
(or simply?=?).
The first of the following two examples is such a computation rule:A product?s cost must be computed as the sum of the cost of all its components.An order may be accepted only if all of the following are true:- It includes at least one item.- It indicates the customer who is placing it.Sometimes the color codes of SBVR Structured English are adopted to emphasize thedifferent types of the sentence constituents.
Like SBVR Structured English, RuleSpeakis linked to the SBVR standard, which provides formal semantics based on second-orderlogic with Henkin semantics.
However, the mapping from RuleSpeak texts to the logicalrepresentation is only defined in an informal way.
The strict templates considerablysimplify the language, but there is no formal grammar that would fully define thelanguage.
?
P3E4N4S2, C F W ISBVR Structured English See Section 4.1. ?
P3E4N4S2, C F W ISEASPEAK (Strevens and Johnson 1983) is an ?International Maritime English?
de-signed for clear communication among ships and harbors.
Its development started in1981.
It is a controlled phraseology similar to PoliceSpeak and the different air trafficcontrol phraseologies.
?
P2E1N3S2, C S D GSMART Controlled English (Smart 2006) is a ?more advanced version?
of ASD Sim-plified Technical English, developed by the company SMART Communications.
It wasprobably influenced by SMART Plain English, and has been applied to different areas.This is an excerpt of a document in SMART Controlled English:When the Quaternary Pump starts operation, the plunger moves inside the chamber.This movement lets the computer calculate and store a position called ?Top DeadCenter?
(TDC).The language is implemented in a tool called MAXit Checker, which is able to spotviolations of the restrictions of the language.
?
P2E5N5S1, C T W ISMART Plain English, sometimes called Plain English Program (PEP), is a controlledlanguage developed and used at SMART Communications since the mid 1980s.6 It isbased on CFE and was the basis for HELP and the controlled languages at Clark andRockwell (Adriaens and Schreors 1992).
As for SMART Controlled English, the toolMAXit Checker can be used to create compliant documents.
?
P2E5N5S1, C W I?Sowa?s syllogisms.?
See Section 4.1. ?
P5E1N4S5, F W ASpecial English (Voice of America 2009) is a simplified English developed and used bythe Voice of America, the official external broadcast institution of the US government.The language has been used since 1959 and is still used today for news on radio,television, and the Web.
This makes it the second oldest English-based CNL (after BasicEnglish) and the only one that has been in use for such a long period by the sameorganization.
At the time of its creation, Special English was probably influenced byBasic English.
The vocabulary is restricted to about 1,500 words, which have changedover time.
Sentences should be short and should be spoken at a slower speed.
There areno explicit restrictions on grammar or semantics.
?
P1E5N5S1, C W S G6 http://www.smartny.com/plainEnglish.htm.163Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1SQUALL (Ferre?
2012) is a controlled natural language in the area of the Semantic Web toquery and update RDF graphs.
Sentences in this language are translated into the querylanguage SPARQL, whereby structural ambiguity is resolved based on a few syntacticrules.
This is an example:for every publication ?X, ?X has an author ?A and ?A cite-s ?XThe language is defined by about 50 simple grammar rules.
?
P5E2N3S4, F W AStandard Language (SLANG).
See Section 4.1. ?
P3E1N4S2, C F W D ISun Proof (Wells Akis and Sisson 2002) is a controlled language introduced at Sun fortheir technical documentation.
The initial development of the language lasted from 1999until 2002.
The general objective was to write texts that are ?easier to understand andto translate for humans as well as machines?
but with a clear focus on translatability.Sun Proof is restricted by three sets of guidelines: style guidelines, grammar rules, andterminology.
One of the most important rules is the limitation of the sentence length to25 words.
Other rules include semantic restrictions such as using may only for grantingpermission.
This is an exemplary sentence:This chapter provides an overview of the standardized solutions that are required tomake the transition from IPv4 to IPv6.?
P2E5N5S1, C T W D ISydney OWL Syntax (SOS) (Cregan, Schwitter, and Meyer 2007) is a controlled lan-guage introduced in the context of the Semantic Web.
It is based on PENG and providesa bidirectional and complete mapping to the ontology language OWL.
These are twoexemplary sentences:The class adult is fully defined as any person that has at least 20 as an age.If X has Y as a father then Y is the only father of X.?
P5E2N4S3, F W ATemplate Based Natural Language Specification (TBNLS) (Esser and Struss 2007) isa CNL approach for functional tests of control software for passenger vehicles.
Thelanguage is defined by 15 templates that provide a mapping to propositional logic withtemporal relations.
This is an exemplary sentence:If Button B4 is down P1 occurs, then Lamp L3 is red P2 hold immediately, until10 seconds T1 elapsed.P1 and P2 represent the propositional variables for the respective boxes, and T1 is a timevariable.
?
P5E2N3S4, F W D A IucsCNL (Barros et al.
2011) is a controlled natural language for use case specificationsin the area of automated software testing.
The language is intended to be unambiguousand is defined by a small number of simple grammar rules.
There are imperativesentences to describe user actions, as well as declarative statements to describe thesystem state before and after user actions:After creating a message with 100 characters, go to the drafts folderThe imported media file is a music file?
P5E2N4S4, F W D A164Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesVoice Actions7 are a CNL for spoken action commands on the Android mobile phoneplatform.
Currently, the language covers twelve informally defined command patternssuch as ?map of,?
?note to self,?
and ?create a calendar event.?
The following is anexample:Create a calendar event: Dinner in San Francisco, Saturday at 7:00PMThese spoken commands can be automatically interpreted and executed by the system.?
P3E1N4S2, F S D IAcknowledgmentsI would like to thank Norbert E. Fuchs,Stefan Ho?fler, Kaarel Kaljurand, Rich Morin,Rolf Schwitter, Simon Spero, and DavidWhitten for comments on the article andgeneral discussions on the topic.
I am alsothankful for the responses from OrlandoChiarello, Esra Erdem, Richard Power,Ronald G. Ross, Nestor Rychtyckyj,Donia Scott, Irina Temnikova, and Andriesvan Renssen to questions about specificlanguages.
In addition, the feedbackfrom Robert Dale, editor-in-chief of theComputational Linguistics journal, anonymouscomments from its editorial board, and theanonymous reviews were very helpful tofurther improve the article.
Lastly, I amextremely thankful to James Tierney forworking with me on the manuscript toimprove grammar and style.ReferencesAdriaens, Geert and Lieve Macken.
1995.Technological evaluation of a controlledlanguage application: Precision, recall,and convergence tests for SECC.
InProceedings of TMI95, pages 123?141,Leuven.Adriaens, Geert and Dirk Schreors.
1992.From COGRAM to ALCOGRAM: Towarda controlled English grammar checker.
InProceedings of COLING ?92, pages 595?601,Nantes.AECMA (Association Europe?enne desConstructeurs de Mate?riel Ae?rospatial).1986.
AECMA Simplified English.PSC-8S-16598.Aikawa, Takako, Lee Schwartz, Ronit King,Monica Corston-Oliver, and CarmenLozano.
2007.
Impact of controlledlanguage on translation quality andpost-editing in a statistical machinetranslation environment.
In Proceedings ofthe MT Summit XI, pages 1?7, Copenhagen.ANSI/NISO (American National StandardsInstitute and National InformationStandards Organization).
2005.
Guidelinesfor the Construction, Format, andManagement of Monolingual ControlledVocabularies.
Z39.19-2005.Aristotle.
ca.
350 BC.
Prior analytics.http://classics.mit.edu/Aristotle/prior.html.ASD (AeroSpace and Defence IndustriesAssociation of Europe).
2013.
SimplifiedTechnical English.
SpecificationASD-STE100, Issue 6.Avaya Inc., 2004.
Avaya Style Guide.
Issue 1,Basking Ridge, NJ.Barkmeyer, Edward and Andreas Mattas.2012.
A restricted English for constructingontologies (RECON).
NIST Interagency/Internal Report 7868, National Institute ofStandards and Technology (NIST).Barros, Fla?via A., La?
?s Neves, E?rica Hori,and Dante Torres.
2011.
The ucsCNL: Acontrolled natural language for use casespecifications.
In Proceedings of SEKE?2011,pages 250?253, Miami Beach, FL.Bernardi, Raffaella, Diego Calvanese,and Camilo Thorne.
2007.
Lite naturallanguage.
In Proceedings of IWCS-7,12 pages, Tilburg.Bernstein, Abraham and Esther Kaufmann.2006.
GINO?a guided input naturallanguage ontology editor.
In Proceedings ofISWC 2006, pages 144?157, Athens, GA.Bernstein, Abraham, Esther Kaufmann,Christian Kaiser, and Christoph Kiefer.2006.
Ginseng: A guided input naturallanguage search engine for queryingontologies.
In 2006 Jena User Conference,3 pages.Bernth, Arendse.
1997.
EasyEnglish: A toolfor improving document quality.
InProceedings of ANLC ?97, pages 159?165,Washington, DC.Bernth, Arendse.
2006.
EasyEnglishAnalyzer:Taking controlled language from sentence7 http://support.google.com/android/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=1715292.165Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1to discourse level.
In Proceedings of CLAW2006, Cambridge, MA.Betts, Robert.
2003.
EasyEnglish: Challengesin cross-cultural communication.In Proceedings of EAMT-CLAW03,8 pages, Dublin.Bouayad-Agha, Nadjet, Richard Power,and Anja Belz.
2002.
PILLS: Multilingualgeneration of medical informationdocuments with overlapping content.In Proceedings of LREC 2002,pages 2,111?2,114, Las Palmas.Bourland, D. David.
1965.
A linguistic note:Writing in E-prime.
General SemanticsBulletin, 32(3):111?114.Boyd, Stephen, Didar Zowghi, andAlia Farroukh.
2005.
Measuring theexpressiveness of a constrained naturallanguage: An empirical study.In Proceedings of RE 2005, pages 339?352,Paris.Breaux, Travis D. and Annie I. Anto?n.
2005.Deriving semantic models from privacypolicies.
In Proceedings of POLICY 2005,pages 67?76, Stockholm.Breaux, Travis D., Annie I. Anto?n,and Jon Doyle.
2008.
Semanticparameterization: A process for modelingdomain descriptions.
ACM Transactionson Software Engineering and Methodology,18(2):5:1?5:27.CAA (Civil Aviation Authority).
2011.Radiotelephony Manual, 20th edition,West Sussex, UKChervak, Steve, Colin G. Drury, andJames P. Ouellette.
1996.
Field evaluationof simplified English for aircraftworkcards.
In Proceedings of the TenthMeeting on Human Factors Issues in AircraftMaintenance and Inspection, pages 123?136,Washington, DC.Clark, Peter, Shaw-Yi Chaw, Ken Barker,Vinay Chaudhri, Philip Harrison, JamesFan, Bonnie John, Bruce Porter, AaronSpaulding, John Thompson, and Peter Yeh.2007.
Capturing and answering questionsposed to a knowledge-based system.
InProceedings of K-CAP ?07, pages 63?70,Whistler.Clark, Peter, Phil Harrison, Thomas Jenkins,John Thompson, and Richard H. Wojcik.2005.
Acquiring and using worldknowledge using a restricted subset ofEnglish.
In Proceedings of FLAIRS 2005,pages 506?511, Clearwater Beach, FL.Clark, Peter, Phil Harrison, William R.Murray, and John Thompson.
2010.Naturalness vs. predictability: A keydebate in controlled languages.
InProceedings of CNL 2009, pages 65?81,Marettimo Island.Crabbe, Stephen.
2009.
Controlled languagesfor technical writing and translation.
InProceedings of the 9th Portsmouth TranslationConference, pages 48?62, Portsmouth.Cramer, Marcos, Bernhard Fisseni, PeterKoepke, Daniel Ku?hlwein, BernhardSchro?der, and Jip Veldman.
2010.
TheNaproche Project controlled naturallanguage proof checking of mathematicaltexts.
In Proceedings of CNL 2009,pages 170?186, Marettimo Island.Cregan, Anne, Rolf Schwitter, andThomas Meyer.
2007.
Sydney OWLSyntax?towards a controlled naturallanguage syntax for OWL 1.1.In Proceedings OWLED 2007, 10 pages,Innsbruck.Cucchiarini, Catia.
2002.
Euromap HLT casestudy: How HLT applications can lead tohigher quality translations at lower costs:The experience of Oce?
Technologies.Dimitrova, Vania, Ronald Denaux, GlenHart, Catherine Dolbear, Ian Holt, andAnthony G. Cohn.
2008.
Involving domainexperts in authoring OWL ontologies.In Proceedings of ISWC 2008, pages 1?16,Karlsruhe.Erdem, Esra and Reyyan Yeniterzi.
2009.Transforming controlled natural languagebiomedical queries into answer setprograms.
In Proceedings of BioNLP ?09,pages 117?124, Boulder, CO.Esser, M. W. and P. Struss.
2007.
Obtainingmodels for test generation fromnatural-language-like functionalspecifications.
In Proceedings of DX-07,pages 75?82, Nashville, TN.Eurocontrol.
2009.
ICAO StandardPhraseology?A Quick Reference Guide forCommercial Air Transport Pilots, Brussels.European Commission.
2011.
How to writeclearly, Brussels.FAA (Federal Aviation Administration).2010.
Air Traffic Control.
Order JO 7110.65T.Felleisen, Matthias.
1991.
On the expressivepower of programming languages.
Scienceof Computer Programming, 17(1-3):35?75.Ferre?, Se?bastien.
2012.
SQUALL: A controllednatural language for querying andupdating RDF graphs.
LNCS, 7427:11?25.Franconi, Enrico, Paolo Guagliardo, SergioTessaris, and Marco Trevisan.
2011.
Quelo:An ontology-driven query interface.In Proceedings of DL 2011, pages 488?498,Barcelona.Fuchs, Norbert E., Kaarel Kaljurand, andTobias Kuhn.
2008.
Attempto Controlled166Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesEnglish for knowledge representation.In Reasoning Web?4th InternationalSummer School 2008, pages 104?124.Fuchs, Norbert E. and Rolf Schwitter.
1995.Specifying logic programs in controllednatural language.
In Proceedings ofCLNLP 95, 16 pages, Edinburgh.Funk, Adam, Valentin Tablan, KalinaBontcheva, Hamish Cunningham,Brian Davis, and Siegfried Handschuh.2007.
CLOnE: Controlled languagefor ontology editing.
In Proceedings ofISWC 2007 + ASWC 2007, pages 142?155,Busan.Godden, Kurt.
2000.
The evolution of CASLcontrolled authoring at General Motors.In Proceedings of CLAW 2000, pages 14?19,Seattle, WA.Grover, Claire, Alexander Holt, Ewan Klein,and Marc Moens.
2000.
Designing acontrolled language for interactive modelchecking.
In Proceedings of CLAW 2000,pages 29?30, Seattle, WA.Hallett, Catalina, Donia Scott, and RichardPower.
2007.
Composing questionsthrough conceptual authoring.Computational Linguistics, 33(1):105?133.Halpin, Terry A.
2004. Business ruleverbalization.
In Proceedings of ISTA2004, pages 39?52, Salt Lake City, UT.Hart, Glen, Martina Johnson, andCatherine Dolbear.
2008.
Rabbit:Developing a controlled naturallanguage for authoring ontologies.LNCS, 5021:348?360.Hayes, Phil, Steve Maxwell, and LindaSchmandt.
1996.
Controlled Englishadvantages for translated and originalEnglish documents.
In Proceedings ofCLAW 1996, pages 84?92, Leuven.Horridge, Matthew, Nick Drummond,John Goodwin, Alan L. Rector, RobertStevens, and Hai Wang.
2006.
TheManchester OWL syntax.
In Proceedingsof OWLED ?06, 10 pages, Athens, GA.Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.
2000.
TheAmerican Heritage Dictionary of theEnglish Language, fourth edition.Huijsen, Willem-Olaf.
1998.
Controlledlanguage?an introduction.
In Proceedingsof CLAW ?98, pages 1?15, Pittsburgh, PA.Humayoun, Muhammad and ChristopheRaffalli.
2010.
MathNat?mathematicaltext in a controlled natural language.Journal on Research in ComputingScience?Special issue: Natural LanguageProcessing and its Applications, 46:293?307.iLastic.
2012. iLastic ?
Documentation.http://www.ilastic.com/docs.Inglesant, Philip, M. Angela Sasse,David Chadwick, and Lei Lei Shi.
2008.Expressions of expertness: The virtuouscircle of natural language for accesscontrol policy specification.
In Proceedingsof SOUPS ?08, pages 77?88, Pittsburgh, PA.Jarrar, Mustafa, C. Maria Keet, and PaoloDongilli.
2006.
Multilingual verbalizationof ORM conceptual models andaxiomatized ontologies.
Technical report,Vrije Universiteit, Brussels.Johnson, Edward.
2000.
Talking acrossfrontiers.
In Proceedings of the InternationalConference on European Cross BorderCooperation: Lessons for and from Ireland,23 pages, Belfast.Kaljurand, Kaarel.
2007.
Attempto ControlledEnglish as a Semantic Web Language.Ph.D.
thesis, Faculty of Mathematics andComputer Science, University of Tartu,Estonia.Kaljurand, Kaarel and Norbert E. Fuchs.2006.
Bidirectional mapping betweenOWL DL and Attempto ControlledEnglish.
In Proceedings of PPSWR?06,pages 179?189, Budva.Kaljurand, Kaarel and Tobias Kuhn.2013.
A multilingual semantic wikibased on Attempto Controlled Englishand Grammatical Framework.In Proceedings of ESWC 2013,pages 427?441, Moutpellier.Kamprath, Christine, Eric Adolphson,Teruko Mitamura, and Eric Nyberg.
1998.Controlled language for multilingualdocument production: Experiencewith Caterpillar technical English.In Proceedings of CLAW ?98, pages 51?61,Pittsburgh, PA.Karkaletsis, Vangelis and Constantine D.Spyropoulos.
1997.
A knowledge-basedorganization of lexical resources tosupport multilingual information retrievalin software localization.
In Proceedingsof the 1997 AAAI Symposium onCross-Language and Speech Retrieval,pages 120?126, Stanford, CA.Kim, Hong-Gee, Byung-Hyun Ha, Jae-Il Lee,and Myeng-Ki Kim.
2005.
A multi-layeredapplication for the gross description usingSemantic Web technology.
InternationalJournal of Medical Informatics, 74(5):399?407.Kittredge, Richard I.
2003.
Sublanguages andcontrolled languages.
In Ruslan Mitkov,editor, The Oxford Handbook ofComputational Linguistics, pages 430?447.Kleinman, Joseph M. 1982.
A limited-wordtechnical dictionary for technical manuals.Technical Communication, Q1:16?19.167Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1Kuhn, Tobias.
2009.
How controlled Englishcan improve semantic wikis.
In Proceedingsof SemWiki 2009, pages 1?15, Hersonissos.Kuhn, Tobias.
2010.
Controlled English forKnowledge Representation.
Ph.D. thesis,Faculty of Economics, BusinessAdministration and InformationTechnology of the University of Zurich,Switzerland.Kuhn, Tobias.
2013.
The understandability ofOWL statements in controlled English.Semantic Web, 4(1):101?115.Kuhn, Tobias, Paolo Emilio Barbano,Mate Levente Nagy, and MichaelKrauthammer.
2013.
Broadeningthe scope of nanopublications.In Proceedings of ESWC 2013,pages 487?501, Montpellier.Kuhn, Tobias and Stefan Ho?fler.
2012.Coral: Corpus access in controlledlanguage.
Corpora, 7(2):187?206.Lukichev, Sergey and Gerd Wagner.
2006.Verbalization of the REWERSE I1 rulemarkup language.
Deliverable I1-D6,REWERSE, Munich.Marchiori, Massimo.
2004.
Towards apeople?s Web: Metalog.
In Proceedingsof WI 2004, pages 320?326, Beijing.Martin, Philippe.
2002.
Knowledgerepresentation in CGLF, CGIF, KIF,Frame-CG and Formalized-English.LNAI, 2393:77?91.Massachusetts Senate.
2003.
LegislativeDrafting and Legal Manual, third edition,Boston.Means, Linda and Kurt Godden.
1996.
TheControlled Automotive Service Language(CASL) project.
In Proceedings of CLAW1996, pages 106?114, Leuven.Means, Linda G., Patricia Chapman, andAulsan Liu.
2000.
Training for controlledlanguage processes.
In Proceedings ofCLAW 2000, pages 1?13, Seattle, WA.Mitamura, Teruko and Eric H. Nyberg.
1995.Controlled English for knowledge-basedMT: Experience with the KANT system.In Proceedings of TMI95, pages 158?172,Louvain.Moore, Corinne.
2000.
Controlled languageat Diebold, Inc.
In Proceedings of CLAW2000, pages 51?61, Seattle, WA.Mott, David.
2010.
Summary of ITAcontrolled English.
Technical report,International Technology Alliance (ITA).Muegge, Uwe.
2007.
Controlled language:The next big thing in translation?ClientSide News Magazine, 7:21?24.Namgoong, Hyun and Hong-Gee Kim.2007.
Ontology-based controlled naturallanguage editor using CFG with lexicaldependency.
In Proceedings of ISWC 2007 +ASWC 2007, pages 353?366, Busan.NCR Corporation.
1978.
NCR FundamentalEnglish Dictionary, Dayton, OH.Nec?as, Ivan.
2011.
BDD as a specification andQA instrument.
Master?s thesis, MasarykUniversity, Brno, Czech Republic.Nyberg, Eric, Teruko Mitamura, andWillem-Olaf Huijsen.
2003.
Controlledlanguage for authoring and translation.In Harold Somers, editor, Computers andTranslation: A Translator?s Guide.
JohnBenjamins Publishing Company,pages 245?281.O?Brien, Sharon.
2003.
Controlling controlledEnglish?an analysis of several controlledlanguage rule sets.
In Proceedings ofEAMT-CLAW03, pages 105?114, Dublin.O?Brien, Sharon and Johann Roturier.
2007.How portable are controlled languagerules?
A comparison of two empirical MTstudies.
In Proceedings of MT Summit XI,pages 345?352, Dublin.Ogden, Charles K. 1930.
Basic English:A general introduction with rules andgrammar.
Paul Treber & Co., London.OMG (Object Management Group).2008.
Semantics of Business Vocabularyand Business Rules (SBVR), v1.0.http://www.omg.org/spec/SBVR/1.0/PDF.Pease, Adam and John Li.
2010.
ControlledEnglish to logic translation.
In RobertoPoli, Michael Healy, and Achilles Kameas,editors, Theory and Applications of Ontology:Computer Applications.
SpringerNetherlands, pages 245?258.Piwek, Paul, Roger Evans, Lynne Cahill,and Neil Tipper.
2000.
Natural languagegeneration in the mile system.In Proceedings of the IMPACTS in NLGWorkshop, pages 33?42, Dagstuhl.PLAIN (Plain Language Action andInformation Network).
2011.
Federal PlainLanguage Guidelines.
plainlanguage.gov.Pool, Jonathan.
2006.
Can controlledlanguages scale to the Web?
In Proceedingsof CLAW 2006, Cambridge, MA.Power, Richard.
1999.
Controlling logicalscope in text generation.
In Proceedings ofEWNLG 1999, pages 1?9, Toulouse.Power, Richard.
2012.
OWL SimplifiedEnglish: A finite-state language forontology editing.
In Proceedings of CNL,pages 44?60, Zurich.Power, Richard and Donia Scott.
1998.Multilingual authoring using feedbacktexts.
In Proceedings of COLING-ACL ?98,pages 1,053?1,059, Montreal.168Kuhn A Survey and Classification of Controlled Natural LanguagesPratt-Hartmann, Ian.
2003.
A two-variablefragment of English.
Journal of Logic,Language and Information, 12(1):13?45.Pratt-Hartmann, Ian.
2004.
Fragments oflanguage.
Journal of Logic, Language andInformation, 13(2):207?223.Pratt-Hartmann, Ian.
2009.
Computationalcomplexity of controlled naturallanguages.
In Pre-Proceedings of CNL2009, 5 pages, Marettimo Island.Pratt-Hartmann, Ian and Allan Third.
2006.More fragments of language.
Notre DameJournal of Formal Logic, 47(2):151?177.Pulman, Stephen G. 1996.
Controlledlanguage for knowledge representation.In Proceedings of CLAW 1996,pages 233?242, Leuven.Pym, Peter J.
1990.
Pre-editing and the use ofsimplified writing for MT: An engineer?sexperience of operating an MT system.In Translating and the Computer 10: TheTranslation Environment 10 Years On,number 10, pages 80?96, Aslib.Reuther, Ursula.
2003.
Two in one: Can itwork?
Readability and translatabilityby means of controlled language.In Proceedings of EAMT-CLAW03,pages 124?132, Dublin.Robertson, F. A.
1987.
AIRSPEAK?Radiotelephony Communication for Pilots.Prentice Hall.Ross, Ronald G. 2003.
Principles of theBusiness Rule Approach.
InformationTechnology Series.
Addison-Wesley.Ross, Ronald G. 2013.
Tabulation of lists inRuleSpeak?using ?the following?
clause.Business Rules Journal, 14(4):1?16.Ruffino, J. Richard.
1982.
Coping withmachine translation.
In V. Lawson, editor,Practical Experience of Machine Translation.North-Holland Publishing Company,pages 57?60.Rychtyckyj, Nestor.
2002.
An assessmentof machine translation for vehicleassembly process planning at Ford motorcompany.
In Proceedings of AMTA2002,pages 207?215, Tiburon, CA.Rychtyckyj, Nestor.
2005.
Ergonomicsanalysis for vehicle assembly usingartificial intelligence.
AI Magazine,26(3):41?50.Schwitter, Rolf.
2002.
English as a formalspecification language.
In Proceedingsof DEXA ?02, pages 228?232,Aix-en-Provence.Schwitter, Rolf.
2008.
Working for two:A bidirectional grammar for a controllednatural language.
In Proceedings ofAI 2008, pages 168?179, Auckland.Schwitter, Rolf and Marc Tilbrook.
2004.Controlled natural language meets thesemantic Web.
In Proceedings of ALTW2004,pages 55?62, Dublin.SEC (U.S. Securities and ExchangeCommission).
1998.
A Plain EnglishHandbook?How to Create Clear SECDisclosure Documents, New York.Shubert, Serena K., Jan H. Spyridakis,Heather K. Holmback, and Mary B. Coney.1995.
The comprehensibility of simplifiedEnglish in procedures.
Journal of TechnicalWriting and Communication, 25(4):347?369.Skuce, Doug.
2003.
A controlled language forknowledge formulation on the semanticWeb.
http://www.site.uottawa.ca:4321/factguru2.pdf.Smart, John M. 2003.
Controlled English forglobal business.
Writing for Translation?The Guide from MultiLingual Computing& Technology, 59:19?21.Smart, John M. 2006.
SMART controlledEnglish.
In Proceedings of CLAW 2006,9 pages, Cambridge, MA.Smart Communications Inc. 1994.
Newsfrom Smart Communications, Inc.
In MTNews International?Newsletter of theInternational Association for MachineTranslation, Issue no.
7.Sowa, John F. 2000a.
Controlled English.http://users.bestweb.net/?sowa/misc/ace.htm.Sowa, John F. 2000b.
Ontology, metadata,and semiotics.
In Proceedings of ICCS 2000,pages 55?81, Darmstadt.Sowa, John F. 2004.
Common logic controlledEnglish (draft).
http://www.jfsowa.com/clce/specs.htm.Spaggiari, Laurent, Florence Beaujard,and Emmanuelle Cannesson.
2003.A controlled language at Airbus.In Proceedings of EAMT-CLAW03,pages 151?159, Dublin.Stewart, Kathleen M. 1998.
Effect of AECMAsimplified English on the comprehensionof aircraft maintenance procedures bynon-native English speakers.
Master?sthesis, University of British Columbia.Strevens, Peter and Edward Johnson.1983.
SEASPEAK: A project in appliedlinguistics, language engineering, andeventually ESP for sailors.
ESP Journal,2(2):123?129.Sukkarieh, Jana Z.
2003.
Mind yourlanguage!
Controlled language forinference purposes.
In Proceedings ofEAMT-CLAW03, pages 160?169, Dublin.Sukkarieh, Jana Z. and Stephen G. Pulman.1999.
Computer processable English and169Computational Linguistics Volume 40, Number 1mclogic.
In Proceedings of IWCS-3,pages 367?380, Tilburg.Temnikova, Irina.
2010.
Cognitive evaluationapproach for a controlled languagepost-editing experiment.
In Proceedingsof LREC?10, pages 3,485?3,490, Hissar.Temnikova, Irina.
2011.
Establishingimplementation priorities in aidingwriters of controlled crisis managementtexts.
In Proceedings of RANLP 2011,pages 654?659.Temnikova, Irina.
2012.
Text Complexity andText Simplification in the Crisis ManagementDomain.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofWolverhampton.Temnikova, Irina and Constantin Orasan.2009.
Post-editing experiments withmt for a controlled language.
InProceedings of ISMTCL, pages 244?248,Besanc?on.Thorne, Camilo and Diego Calvanese.
2010.Controlled English ontology-based dataaccess.
In Proceedings of CNL 2009,pages 135?154, Marettimo Island.Valencia-Garc?
?a, Rafael, FranciscoGarc?
?a-Sa?nchez, DagobertoCastellanos-Nieves, and JesualdoToma?s Ferna?ndez-Breis.
2011.OWLPath: An OWL ontology-guidedquery editor.
IEEE Transactions onSystems, Man, and Cybernetics, Part A,41(1):121?136.Van Kleek, Max, Brennan Moore,David Karger, Paul Andre?, and M. C.Schraefel.
2010.
Atomate it!
End-usercontext-sensitive automation usingheterogeneous information sources onthe Web.
In Proceedings of WWW 2010,pages 951?960, Raleigh, NC.van Renssen, Andries.
2005.
Gellish:A Generic Extensible Ontological Language.Ph.D.
thesis, Delft University ofTechnology.van Renssen, Andries.
2011.
Modeling oftextual requirements in a Gellish universaldatabase.
In Proceedings of FOMI 2011,pages 102?115, Vincenza.Verbeke, Charles A.
1973.
Caterpillarfundamental English.
Training &Development Journal, 27(2):36?40.Vershinin, Konstantin and AndreyPaskevich.
2000.
Forthel?the language offormal theories.
International Journal ofInformation Theories and Applications,7(3):120?126.Voice of America.
2009.
VOA Special EnglishWord Book: A List of Words Used in SpecialEnglish Programs on Radio, Television, andthe Internet, Washington, DC.Warren, David H. D. and Fernando C. N.Pereira.
1982.
An efficient easily adaptablesystem for interpreting natural languagequeries.
American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics, 8(3-4):110?122.Wells Akis, Jennifer and William R. Sisson.2002.
Improving translatability: A casestudy at Sun Microsystems, Inc.The Globalization Insider, (4.2).Wojcik, Richard H., Philip Harrison, andJohn Bremer.
1993.
Using bracketedparses to evaluate a grammar checkingapplication.
In Proceedings of ACL ?93,pages 38?45, Columbus, OH.Wojcik, Richard H. and James E. Hoard.1997.
Controlled languages in industry.In R. A. Cole et al., editors.
Survey of theState of the Art in Human LanguageTechnology.
Cambridge University Press,pages 238?239.Wojcik, Richard H., Heather Holmback,and James E. Hoard.
1998.
BoeingTechnical English: An extension ofAECMA SE beyond the aircraftmaintenance domain.
In Proceedings ofCLAW ?98, pages 114?123, Pittsburgh, PA.Wyner, Adam, Krasimir Angelov, GuntisBarzdins, Danica Damljanovic, BrianDavis, Norbert Fuchs, Stefan Hoefler,Ken Jones, Kaarel Kaljurand, Tobias Kuhn,Martin Luts, Jonathan Pool, Mike Rosner,Rolf Schwitter, and John Sowa.
2010.
Oncontrolled natural languages: Propertiesand prospects.
In Proceedings of CNL 2009,pages 281?289, Marettimo Island.170This article has been cited by:1.
Tobias Kuhn, Alexandre Bergel.
2014.
Verifiable source code documentation in controlled naturallanguage.
Science of Computer Programming .
[CrossRef]
