American Journal of Computational LinguisticsCOMPUTATION OF A SUBCLASS O F  INFERENCES:P R E S U P P O S I T I O N  A N D  E N T A I L M E N Tp , R A V I N D  K. JOSHI AND RALPH WEISCHEDELDepartment  of C~~ and I ~ i a r ; l " o n  ScienceMoore School of Electrical EngineerihgUniversity of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104T h i s  work was partially suppor ted  by NSF Grant SOC 72-0546A01and MC 76-19466.Weischedel was associated with the University of California,Irvine, during the preparation of this manuscript.
His presentaddress is Department of Computer Scidnce, University ofDelaware, Newark.Copyr lgh t  el977Association for Computational Lingu i s t i c sThe term "inference1' has been used in many ways.
In recent artificialintelligence literature dealing w i t h  computational linguistics, it hasbeen used to ref= to any conjecture given a set of facts.
The conjecturem y  be -true or false.
In -this sense, "inferencet' includes mre thanformally deduced statements.This paper considers a subclass of inferences, known as presuppositionand entailment.
W e  exhibit many of their pmperties.
In particular, wedemanstrate how to compute them by structural means (e.g.
-tree transforma-tions).
Fwther ,  we d i s c ~ s  their computational properties and their mlein the semantics of natural language.A sentence S entails a sentence S 1  if in every context in which S istrue, S t  must also be t rue.
A sentence S presupposes a sentence S" ifboth S itself entails St' and the (intermal) negation of S also entails S".The system we ha* described computes this subclass of inferenceswhile parsing a sentence.
It uses the augnated transition network (ATN).While parsing a sentence, the A m  graph retrieves the tree tr,ansformationsfrom the lexicon for any words in the sentence, and applies the t r eesfo or mat ion to the appropriate portion of t he  semaritic representationof the  sentence, to obtain entailments and presuppositions.
Ftrther,  whena specific syntactic cons-truct having a presupposition is pamed, the  Pfl3generates the corresponding presupposition using tree -formations.That presuppsition and entailment are inferences is obvious.However, the requirement in their definition that they be independent ofthe situation (all context not represented structurally) is stmng.
Hence,it is clear that presupposition and entailment are s-trictly a subclassof inferences.
As one would hope in studying a res-tricted class of a moregeneml phenomenon, this subclass of inferences e ~ b i t s  everal computa-tional and linguistic aspects not exhibited by the geneml class ofinferences.
Some of these are 1) presupposition and entailment seem to bet ied to the definitional (semantic) s t ~ u c t u r e  a d  syntactic structure oflanguage, 2) presupposition and entailment e&ibi t  complex interactionof semantics and syntax; they exhibit necessary, but not sufficient,semantics of individual words and syntactic constructs, and 3)  f o r t h ecase of presuppositibn and entailment,there is a na-1 solution to theproblem o f  knowing when to stop drawing inference&, which is an importan-trproblem in inferencing, in g e n m .The term "inference" has been used in many ways.
In recent artificialintelligence litemtire dealing with c q u t a t i o n a l  linguistics, it has beenused to refer to any conjecture given a context (for instance, the contextdeveloped from previous text).
The conjecture m y  be true or false.
kthis sense, "inference" includes mom than formally deduced statements.Further, alternatives t o  formal deduction procedures are so@t fo rcomputing inferences because formal deductive procedures tend to  undergoccmbinatori;ll expLosion .A subclass of inferences that we have studied are presupposition andentailment (defined i n  Section 1).
As one would hope in studying az-estricted class of a more general phenomenon, this subclass of inferencesexhibits several computational and linguistic aspects not eXhibited by theg e n d  class of inferences.One aspect is that presupposition and entailment seem to be t i ed  tothe defini t ional  (semant ic)  structure and syntactic structure of language.As a consequence, we demonstrate how they may be computed by structuralmeans (e. g. tree t r a n s f o m t i o n s )  using &I augmented transition network.A second aspect is that presupposition and entailment exhibit complexinteraction of semantics and syntax.
They exhibit necessary, but notsuff ic ient ,  semantics of individual words and of syntactic constructs.Another aspect relates to the problem of lawwing when to stop drawinginferences.
There is a n a t w a l  solution to this problem far the case ofpresupposition and e n t a i l m e n t  .The definitions of presupposition and entailmnt appear in Section 1,with exmqles in Sections 2 and 3.
A brief desoription of the  system that-5-ccmputes the presuppositions land en-taiIme1a-t~ of an input sentence appearsin Section 4.
(The details of the camgutation and me system are i nWeischedel (1976).
Detailed comparison of this subclass of inferenceswith the genawl class of inferences is presented in Section 5.
Conclusionsare stated in Section 6 .
An appendix contains sample input--output sessions.In this section, we define t h e  inferences we are interested in[ pm-supposition and entailment), and carment on our use of the tm " p w t i c s "2nd wcontext".In order to specify the sub-classes of inferences we are studying, weneed same preliminary assumptions and definitions.
Inferences, in general.,must be made given a particular body of p~grratic informtion and withrespect to texts.
Sbce sentences are the simplest cases of tex ts ,  we areconcentrating on them.
Presuppositions and entailments are particularlyuseful inferences for studying texts havkg sentences containing anbeddedsentences, and they may be studied t o  a limited extent independent ofprap&ic jnformatian.1.1 Subformula-derivedWe assume that the primary goal of the syntactic cornpnent of a naturallanguage system is t o  translate Awn natural language sentences to meaningrepresentations selected in an artificial language.
Assume further, tha tthe meaning representations selected for Ihglish sentences have a syntaxwhich may be appmximated by a context-free p m .
By "approximated1',we mean that there  is a context-free &ramm of the semantic representations,though the language given by the g~mrar may include sane s t r i n g s  w h i c hhave no interpretation.
(For instance, the syntax of ALGOL is oftenappmxhted by a Backus-Naur form specification.Since we have assumed a context-free syntax for the semanticrepresentations, we may speak of the semantic representations as well-formedfcmulas and as having well-farmed subfmnulas and tree representations.As long as the assumption of context-free syntax for semanticrepresentations is satisfied, the same algorithms and data structures ofour system can be used regardless of choice of semantic primitives or typeof semantic representation.Let S and S f  be sentences w i t h  meaning representations L and Lrrespectively.
If there is a well-formed subforuila P of L and sane treetrwmformation F such thatLf = F(P),then we say S t  may be subformula-derived h S. The type of -treetransfornations that are acceptable for F have been formalized and studiedextensively in ccmnputat ional linguistics as f inite-state tree transformat ions.The main point of this work is that the presuppositions and entailmentsof a sentence may be subfomula-derived.
We have built a system by whichwe m y  specify subformulas P and tree tmnsformations F. The system thenautomitically generates presuppositions and enta ihmts  from an inputsentence S.1.2 Fmgmt ics and ContextWe use context to refer to the situation in which a sentence m yoccur.
Thus, it would include all discourse prior to the sentence underconsideration, beliefs of the interpreter, i. e. , in shwt the - state of theintqreter.
We use p m t i c s  t o  describe bll phenomena (and computationsmdelling them) that reflect the effect of context.1 .3  Ehtai3men-tA sentence S entails a sentence St  if and onlv if in evervcontext which S is m e ,  S t  is also true.
We may say then that St  isan entaibmt of S. This definition is used within linguistics- 8 ras a t e s t  rather than as a rule in a f o m l  system.
Onediscovers a p i r i c a l l y  whether St  is an entailment of S by trying toconstruct a context in which S is true, but in which St  is false.Entailment is not the same as material implication.
For instance,let S by "John managed to kiss Mary,' which entails sentence S f ,  "Johnkissed Mary.
l1 Givon (1973) argues that even if N S T  is true, we wouldnot want to say that 'Wohn did not mage to kiss Mary.
l1 The reason isthat "managerf seems to presume an attempt.
Hence, if John did not kissMary, we cannot conclude that John did not manage to kiss Mary, for hemay not have attempted to kiss Mary.
Though S entails S ' , it is not thecase that S S t ,  since that would require N S ' S N S .We have shuwn that entailments may be s u b f d a - d e r ~ v e d ,  that is, thatthey may be computed by structural  means.
As an example, consider thesentence S below; one could represent its rrreaning representatbn as L.S entails S f ,  with meaning representation Lf .S.
John forced us to leave.L.
(IN-m-PAST (force John(EVENT ( IN-THE-PAST (leave we ) ) ) 1 1S f ,  We left.L f .
(IN=-PAST (leave we))F r o m  the meaning representation selected it is easy to see the appropriates u b f d  and the identity tree t ransformtio~ which demonstrate thatthis is a subformula-derived entailment.
(This is, of course, a t r i v i a ltree .h.ansformation.
A nontrivial example appears in Section 1.4, forpnsupposition. )
Many ewmples of entailment axe given in Secticn 2.Notice that it is questionakde whether one understands sentence S orthe word Ivforce" if he d e s  not knaw t h a t  S t  is true whenever S is.
Inthis sense, entailment is certainly necessary knowledge ( though notsufficient) for understan- natural* language.
We w i l l  see this againfor presupposition.A second, related concept i s  the not ion of presupposition.
A - sentenceS ~ s ~ t i c n l l y )  presupposes a sentence S t  i f  and only if S entails S'- - - -- -- -and the intmdl negation of S entails S ' .
(Other definitions of presuppo--- e_--sition have been proposed, Kartumen ( 197 3 discusses various definitions .
)F m  the defh i t lon  one can easily see t h a t  all semantic presuppsZtionsS f  of S are dtso entailments of S. Hawever, the converse is not true, asthe sentence S and S f  above show.Again, this definition is primarily meant as a linguistic test forempiricdlly determining the presuppositions of a sentence and not as a r u l ein a formal system.Note that the hyth of a presupposition of a sentence is a necessarycondition for the sentence t o  have a truth value at al l .
If any of thepresuppositions are not true, the sentence is anomlous.
For instance,the sentence'The -test prime number is '23.presuppoges that there is a greatest prime n-.
The fact that there isnone explaine why the sentence is anamlous.Other authors have referred to the concept of presupposition as*!given informationv.
Haviland and Clark (1975) as well as Clark andHaviland (1976) suggest a process by which h m s  use given infc3rmationin understanding u t t m c e s .
They present much psychological and linguis-t f b  evidence that c o n f h  their hypothesis.As an example of a subfonmila derived presupposition considersentences S1 and S1' below.
It i s  easy to see that whether S1 is true orfalse, S1' is assumed to be true.Sl: John stopped beating Mary.LJ: (IN-LTKE-PAST (stop (EVENT (beat John Mary) ) ) )S1' : John had been beating Mary.11': (IN-THCPAST (HAVE-EN (BE-ING (beat John Mary))))Ll and L1' are semantic representations for S1 and S1' respectively.
Thew e l l -  f o m d  subformula in this case is  all af L3..
The tree transformationfrom W. to L1' offers a n o n ~ v i a l  e-le of a subfonmila-derivedpresupposition.Notice that one might wonder whether sentence S1 and the meaning of"stopt1 w e r e  understood if  one did not.
huw tha t  Sly rust be true whetherJohn stopped or  not.
In this sense, presupposition is necessary (but notsufficient) knowledge for understanding natural language.We have s h m  that presuppositions (as we have defined them above)m y  be subfonmila-d-ved.
Henceforth, we w i l l  use "entailment" t o  meanan entai3.nm-t whjch is not also a presupposition.-11-2.
Elementary ExamplesM s  section is divided into two subsections, Section 2.1 deals withpresuppositions, section 2.2 with entailments.
All example sentences arentmimred.
An (a) sentence has as presuppsition or entailment thecomsponding (b) sentence.2.1 PresuppositionPresuppositions arise fm two different structural sources: syntacticconstructs ( the syntactic or relational strzlctur?e) and lexical items(semantic structure 1 .2.1.1 Syntactic constructsPerhaps the mst intriguing cases of presupposition are those that arisef h m  syntactic constructs, for these demnstrate c w l e x  interactionbetween semantics and syntax.A construction bown as the cleft sentence givesrise to presuppositions for the corresponding surface sentences.
Considerthat if someone says (1) to you, you m i & t  respond with (2a).1.
I am sure one of the players won the game for us yesterday, but I donot knm who did.2.
a.
It is B who won the game.b.
Scaneone won the game.The form of the cleft sentence is the word "it" followed by a tensedform of the word "be1', follawed by a noun phrase or p~pos i t iona l  phrase,followed by a relative clause.Note particularly that the presupposition (2b) did not arise frcwany of the individual words.
Rather, the pempposition, which is clearlysenwtic since it i s  part of the tmth qmditions of the sentence, arosefram the syntactic constmct.
Thus, the  syntactic (or relational) s t r u mof the sentence can carry important samntic information.C l e f t  sentences i l l u s t ~ t e  one important use of presuppositions: m-reference.
C l e f t  sentences asert the identity of one individual withanothw fidividual referred to peviously in the dialogue.Emher,  the syntactic constructions associated with definite nounphmmes have presuppositions that their referents exist in the sharedinfoma-Lion between the dialogue participants.
By "definite noun phrases1',we man noun phrases w k i c h  make definite (as opposed to indefinite)reference .
Such constructions include proper names, possessives, adj ect iVes ,~ ~ t p i c t i v e  re la t ive  clauses, and nonres-bictive relative clauses.
Forexample, consider the f o l l ~ g  (a1 sentences and their wsociated pre-suppositions as (b) sentences.3.
a. John's brother plays for the Phillies.b, John has a brother.4.
a.
The team that fhe Phillies play today has won three games in a m w .b.
The Phillies play a team today.5.
a.
The Athletics, who won the World Series last year, play today.b.
The Athletics won the World Series last year.
''Restrictive r e l a t i v e  clauses1' are relative clauses that m used todetermine what the referent is.
"Nonrestrictive relative clauses" are notused t o  determine reference, but rather add additional information as anaside to the main assertion of the sentence.
(In writ ten Wlish, they areusually beaded by camas, in spoken English by pauses and change ofh t o n a t i ~ n .
)Nata particularly that the d c t i v e  clauses as in (4) p u p p o s em l y  that there is soone referent which must have that quality.
On theother hand, nonrestrictive re la t ive  clauses, such as ( 5 ) psuppose  thatthe particular object named also has in addition the quality mehtioned inthe relative clause.
Sentence (5a) might be taken as a parapkase of "TheAthletics play today, and the Athletics won the World Series last year.
"Hmever, using the syntactic construct of the nonrestrictive relativeclause adda the semantic infomatian that not only is  (5b) asserted true,but also that (5b) m u s t  be presupposed true.
Thus, this distinction betweenthe restrictitie and nonrestrictive relative clauses demonstrates again thatthe syntactic construct selected can carry important semantic information.It is w e l l - h o w n  that one role of syntax is to expose (by reducingambiguity) the relational structure of the meaning of the sentence.
Theexamples of presuppositions of cleft sentences and restrictive andn~rwestrictive relative clauses demonstrate that another function of syntaxis to convey part of the meaning itself.For other examples of syntactic constructs that have presuppositions,see Keenan (1971) andLakoff (1971).2.1.2 Lexica l  entryPresuppositions play an important part in the  meaning of many words;these presuppositions m y  therefore be associated with lexical entries.Only a few classes of semantically-related words have been and-yzed so far;analyses of many words with respect to presupposition are reported inP i L l n w x e  (19711, Givon (19731, and Kiparsky and Kiparslcy (1970).
Examplesand a surrmary of such a y s e s  may be found in Keenan (1971) andWeisc3hedel (1975).All of the following eramples of presuppositions arise from thelexical entries for particular words.
Again, the (b) sentence in eachexample is presupposed by the (a) sentence.The (very large) class of factive predicates prnvi.de clear examplesof presuppositions, (see Kipamky and Kiparsky (1970) .
Factive predicatesmay be loosely defined as verbs which take embedded sentences as subject orobject, and the embedded sentences can usually be replaced by pamphr&ngthem with ''the fact that  S. ''6.
a. I regret that The Phillies have made no trades.b.
The Phillies have made no trades.Example (6) above demonstrates that  another function of presuppositimin language is informing tha t  the presupposition should be c o n s i d e d  t rue.We can easily imagine (6a) being spoken at the beginning of a pressconference to inform the news agency of the t r u t h  of (6b).It should be pointed out that  presuppositions arising f r o m  lexicalitems have been studied primwily fo r  verbs and verb-like elements such asadverbs.
For instance, presuppositions have not,  in general, beM associatedw i t h  c m n  nouns.Fillmore (1971) has found presupposition to be a very usefU conceptin the semantics of a class of verbs that he labels the verbs of judging.For instance, (7a) presupposes (7b) and asserts (8b).
On the other hand,( 8a) presupposes ( 8b) and asserts ( 8b) .
Thus , "criticize1' andare in sane sense the dual of each other.7.
a.
The mnager criticized B for playing poorly.b.
B is responsible for h i s  playing poorly.8.
a.
The manager accused B of playing poorly.b.
B' s playing poorly is bad.Keenan (1971) points out  that some words, such as l~retwlnu, '!alsov,t t t m ~  , itagain", "other", and "anotherr1, carry the maning of sanethingbeing repeated.
These words have presuppositions that the i t e m  occurredat Seast o n e  hfo*9. a.
B did not play again today.b.
B did not play at least once before.Note that these words include various syntactic categories.
ttAlso" , "too" 3"again" , are adverbial elements (adjuncts ) .
, and "anothert' haveaspects of adjectives and of quantifiers.
Again we see that the phenomenonof presupposition is a crucial part of the meaning of m y  diverse classesof words.Given these btmductory examples, let us turn our attention toexamples of entailment.2.2 Entailmentfitailments appear to have been studied less than presupposition.
Allof the examples identified as entailnmt thus far seem t o  be related t olexical entries of particular words.
T b  canpehensive papers thatanalyze wrds having entailments are lkrtbmen (1970) and Givon (1973).2.2.1 Classification of words having entai lmntsA t  least five distinct semantic classes of words having entailments havebeen identified by Karttunen (1970).
In the following exmples, the (b)sentence is entailed by the (a) sentence.Redibates such as l % e  be a positicplt, "have the oppmtmityu, and '%e&Left ,  are called "~nly-ifv verbs be~xiuse the embedded satence is entailedonly if the predicate is in the negative.
Far instance, (1Oa) entails(lob), but (11) has no entailment.10.
a.
The P h i l H e s  w e r e  not in a position to w i n  the pennant.b.
The Phillies did not w i n  the pennan-tr.11, a.
The Phillies were in a position to w i n  the pennant.V e r b s  such as ttforce", "causetr, and are "if" verbs, for theembedded sentence is entailed if they are in the  positive.32.
a. Johnny Bench forced the game t o  go into extra innings.b.
The game went in to  e x t m  innings.13.
Johnny Bench did not force the game to go into extra innings.Note that (12a) entails (12b), but (13) has no such entailment.A "negative-if" verb entails the negative of the embedded sentencewhen the verb is positive.
"Prevent1' and llres'train f& are such verbs.14.
a.
His superb catch prevented the runner f m  scoring.b.
The runner did not score.15.
His superb catch did not prevent the r u n n e  f m  scoring.mus, (14a) entails (l4b), but (15) has no such entailment.
* 1The three classes of verbs above my  be cabTed me-way implicativeverbs; there are also two-way implicative verbs.
Qlrch verbs have anentailment whether positive or negative.If the entailment is positive, we m y  call these "positive tm-wayimplicative" verbs.
Exanples (16) and (17) illustrate "manage" as such a17.
a.
B did not m e  to win.b.
B did not win.There are also "negative two-way implicative1t vefbs.
Cansider (18)and (19).18. a.
B failed to mke the catch.b.
B did not make the catch.19.
a.
B did not fail to make the catch.b .
B mde -the catch.For this clasa of verbs, the entailed proposition is positive if aad onlyif the implicative verb is negated.The five classes of words having entailments, then, are: - if, only if,negative if, positive two-way hpl ica t  ive , and negative two-way implicative.A l l  of the wmds cited in the literature as having entailments arepredicates.
In the examples here, m y  were  verbs; SORE were  adjectivessuch as "ableu.
However, s m  are nouns such as "proof If ; example ( 20)dammmtes this.20.
a.
The fact that he came is proof that he c a m s .b.
He cares.We nuw turn our attention to various factors that must be accounted f win ccaxputing pres~positions and entaihmts of canpound sentences.3.
Catrplex IScamples: M d e d  Ehtailments and hsupposit ionsIn this section, the fc3llcrwix-g question is considered: Suppose that asentence S has a set of en t a imt s  and a set of presuppositions.
Supposefurther, that S is &ded in another sentence S t .
Are the e n t a h t sand presuppositions of S also entailments and presuppositions of S t  as awhole?This has been referred to as the pmjection problem for entailmintsand presuppositions.
A solution to the pmblem invol~s miles for canbiningsemantic entities of mibedded (projected) sentences in ordm to  compute thesemantic entities of the whole sentence.A soxution to the pmjectian pmblem evolved in lbrtttmen (1973, 19741,Krttunen and Peters  (19751, Joshi and Weischedel (19741, Smaby (1975) andWeischedel (1975 ) .
The results are briefly mported here.
A sumnary of thesolutions m y  be found in Weischedel (1975).Kiwttunen (1973, 1974) divided all predicates into four classes: thespeech acts, predicates of propositional attifude, connectives, and allo*er predicates.
The classes were  defined according t o  the effect of thepredicate on presuppositions of M d e d  sentences.
We found that thesame classification was appru,priate far entailments, and extended thesolution to inclMe entailments, as well as presuppositions.3.1 PresuppositionAs an example sentence, consider (11, which presupposes (2 ) .1.
Jack regretted that John left.2.
John left.In tha folluwing sections, we w i l l  consider the effect on presupposition (2)of embeddk.lg (1) mdes v a r h  predicates taking enbedded sentences.-19-3.1.1 Moles- -Many predicates taking embedded sentences could be called holesbecause they let presuppositions of embedded sentences throm to betronepresuppositions of the compound sentence.
"harett is such a predicate;( 3) presupposes (2 1 ,3.
Mary is aware that Jack regretted that John left.A l l  prwdmtes taking embedded sentences, except for the v@bs of saying,the predicates of ppos i t iona l  attitude, and the connectives appear to beholes.3.1.2 8peech actsThe vebs of saying, or "speech actrf v&s, permit the presuppositionsto rise to be presuppositions of the conqpoUhd sentence, but those presupposi-tions are embedded in the world of the claims of the actm perfoming thespeech act.
Smdby (19-75) f i r s t  pcinted out this impofiant fact.For instance, (4) presupposes (5) ,  not (2).4.
Mary asked whether Jack regretted that John left.5.
Mary claimed John left.3.1.3 Predicates of propositional attitudeAnalysis of predicates af propositional attitude is very similar tothat of speech acts.
SOE predicates of popositicnal atti tude are "believe",It-" , and ''hope".
In general, presuppositions of sentences embedded undersuch a predicate must be embedded under t he  predicate t'beLievell to reflectthat they are preaippositions in the world of the actcxr's beliefs.
This wasfirst pointed odt by hrttmen (1974).FOP example, (6) (71, not (2) .-20.16 .
Mary thinks Jack regxemed tha t  J o h  left.7.
Mary believes John left.3.1.4 ConnectivesThe effect of connectives is rather complex, as (8) and (9) demrmsmte.Sentence (8)  presupposes (21 ,  but ( 9 )  clearly does not.8.
If Jack was there, then Jack regretted that  John left.9.
If John left, t%en Jack regretted that John left.Let A and B be the antecedent and consequent respectively of the conpow1dsentence "if A -then B".The examples of (8) and (9) are complex, f &r they seem to demonstratethat the context set up by the antecedent A must be part of the canputation.This would in general r e q u h  complex theorem provers in order to determinewhether the presuppositions of B are implied by A, and therefm are notpresuppositions of the canpound sentence.
Huwever , Peters  suggested (afootnote in Karttunen (1974)) that the presuppositions of "if A then B,"(where rraterial implication is the interpretation of "if - then") , arisingfrom the presuppositions of B are of the form "if A then C", where C is apresupposition of B.
Further, a l l  presuppusitions of A are presupposit~onsof "if A -then B. "
This suggestion eliminates the need for theorem provingand offers instead a simple computation similar to that for the verbs ofsaying and the verbs of prop0siticma.l attitude.FW the examples given then, (8 > psupposes (10) , and (9 ) presupposes(11) which is a tautology.10.
If Jack was there, then John left.U.
If Jdhn left, then Jdhn left.Qla may easily w i k y  that (8) preqpxes (10) by a tnrth table mwutatim.m m e n  (1973 ) argues that the solution of  "A and $3" reduces to thesolution of "if A then BIT and that t h e  solution to "A or Bw reduces to thesolution of "if not(A1 then BVi .This completes the description of the four classes of embedding pmdicatesand the& effect on embedded ~ s u p p o s i t i o n s .
However, there is anotherphenanenon , that of enibedded entailments beaming pesuppositions ofcanpound sentences.3.1.5 Ehta.$hents p m t e d  to presuppositionsClearly, any entailment of a presupposition must be a presuppositionalso; M s  is evident frwn the definitions.
For instance, (12) presupposes(13).
Since (13) entails (141, (14) must also be a p m p p o s i t i o n  of (12).12.
Jack regretted that John1 s children forced Mary to leave.13.
John's children forced Mary to leave.14.
Mary l e e .The five cases disussed above outline a solution to the projectionpmblem fop presuppositions.3.2 EntailmentsIn the examples, we w i l l  embed (15) under various predicates, to seehm the c ~ t a i h n t  (16) of (15) is affected.15.
Fred prevented Mary fmPn leaving.16.
Mary did not leave.3.2.1 Chain of entailmentsCorrresponding to the class of holes for presuppositions, two casesarise for entaihmts.
One case was c o v e  in 3.1.5; entaihents of anembedded sentence which is a presupposi th are ~ p p o s i t i m s  of theA second, disjoint case involves setting up a chain of entai-ts.For instance, (17) entails (15) w h i d h  entails (16).17.
John forced Fred t o  prevent Mary frcpn leaving.This is truly a chain of entailments, since breddng a link in the chaincauses embedded entailments to be blocked.
For instance, the presence(absence) of negation is crucial; if (17) were negative, it would not entail(15) nor (161, though (171 did.Thus, for the case ~nvolving a chain of entailments, the entailments of ananbedded sentence are entailed by the compound sentence only if such achain of entailments can be set up.3.2.2 Speech ActsSmaby has pointed out that there are at least two subclasses ofspeech act verbs according to behavior of a b d d e d  entailments.
Further,the syntactic shape of the embedded sentence affects entailments.For instance, if the syntactic shape of an embedded sentence S isWhether S or nottt, "for NP to W1', or "if S" , all enibedded entailments areblocked.
For instance, (18 ) entails nothing about Mary's leaving.18.
John asked whether or not B e d  prevented Mary from leaving.However, a "wh-sca-ne" embedded sentence (beginning with "who", "what",ffwhen", frwhich", etc . )
have a l l  entailments of the embedded sentence promotedto presuppositions, since the erribedded sentence is presupposed.
Forinstance, (19 presupposes (201, and therefore presupposes that Vary didnot leave".19.
John asked who prevented Mmy from leaving.20.
Scmeone p'reventd Nary f b n  leaving.For enbedded sentences of the fom "that St!, we notice -two subclassesof speech acts.
Verbs such as "sayn, 'tdeclare", and l taffh 'v  are likeI t i f  predicateslT, fop embedded entailments are not blocked if the verb is natin the negative.
Hcrwever, in the positive, the enibedded entaLhen't:s becameentailments of the ccnpund sentence, but under the speakerrs claims.
Forinstance, (21) entails (22).21.
John said that bed prevented Mary f m  leaving.22.
Job clximd that Mary aid not leave.A second subclass of verbs includes "deny".
They are analogous to"negative if verbs1'.
When "denyu is in the negative, embedded entailmentsare blocked.
Hawever, when lldenyN is positive the entailnmts of thenegative form of the anbedded sentence are entailed by the c-mdsentence, but under the speakert s claims.
For instance, (24) is entailedby (23).23.
John denied that Mary was able to leave-24.
John claimed that Mary did not leave.3.2.3 Prediqates of propositional attitudeSrraby (1975) analyses these predicates in the same way as the speechacts.
"Believet' , "think" , and "suspect" are examples of a subclassanalogous to  ''if predicatesv1 or t o  "say", "declare1', and %ffhvV.
v ~ u b t t tis an example of a second subclass analogous to "negative two-way Implicativepredicates" such as "failv.Thou@ the subclasses for predicates o f  propositional attitude areanalogous to those of *e speech acts, the M d e d  ent8i-ts ofpmpositiondl attitude mcdtes bedane entaihmts of the caqmund sentenceunderthe U ~ S ,  ratherthan\mdeerthe speaker's d a i m s  as in thespeech act case.
For instance, ( 2 5 ) entails ( 26 ) ,25.
John thought that Fred prevented Mary frwn lea*.26.
John believed that Mary did not leqve.3.2.4 ConnectivesFor "if A then Bn , the entailments are of the form "if A then Cfr ,where C is an entailment of B, For ''A and B" , the entailments are theunion of the entailments of A and of the entailments of B, since both Aand B are entailed by "A and B".
For "A or B", thm do not seem to be anyuseful entailments.This concludes the analysis of .the projecticpl problem farpresuppositions and ent-ts.4.
Outline of the solutions in t he  systemThe purpose of this section is to give an overall view of the systemand an outline of the methods used to compute presupposition and entailment.For a mre complete, detailed description of the computational methods andthe system see Weischedel (1976).
Section 4.1 presents a block diagmmof the system; 4.2 briefly outlines the cconputation for a e  variousexamples of sections 2 and 3; section 4.3 attempts to state some o f  thelimitations of the system, including the m r y  and t h e  requkmn^ts.4.1 B l o c k  diqpmA block diagram of the system appears in F i v  4.1.
All arrowsrepresent data flaw.
A sentence S in English is input to the system.
Theparser is mitten as an augmented tMnsition network graph (Am).
(Woods(1970 specifies the A!I'N as a formal W e 1  and as a programnhg language.
)hbile parsing, the PlTN refers to the lexicon for specific infopmation foreach wrd of the  sentence S. Laical information is of three types:syntactic informtion, informtion for generating the serrtlntic representationor translrtion , and information for making lexical inferences --presuppositionsand entailments.
The organization of the lexicon for computing lexicalinferences (psuppsi t ions  and entailments) is a novel aspect of the system.Fmm the definition of presuppositims and e n t a t s ,  it is clearthat the system heeds a set of functions for mnipdating or trhnsfcamingtrees.
These appear as a sepamte block in Figure 4.1.
The parser ' U sthem while parsing; this is represented in the diagram as input I and value81' of fimctions.
These funeths are written in LISP.Figure 4.1System Structure(All arrows represent data f l o w )AmGraph(Parser)-27-U s i n g  the lexical information, the re la t iad  or syntactic strzctureof the sentence, and the tree -bansfomtion functions, the parser generatesthe semantic representatio~ (translation) t of -the sentence and a set ofpresuppositions P and entailments E of the sentence.Since each presupposition P and entailment E is in the logical  notationof the semantic representations of sentences, a small tmnsformationalcutput component has been included t o  give the presuppositions and entailmentsas output in English.
These appear as P' and E' ; in Figure 4.1.
The trans-formatima output; cqnponent iS also wri Ren in LISP.
This output componentis very small in scope and is not a major component of the work repofledhem.4 .2  Outline o f  solutionAl sketch of the computation of presupposition and e n t a i b m t  ispresented here ; details of computation are presented in Weischedel (1976 ) .There are four fundamental phenomena exhibited in secticms 2 and 3 :presuppositions; f h m  syntactic mnstructs, presuppositions fram particularwords (lexical entries), entailments from lexical entries, and the projectionphencunena.In d e r  to compute presuppositions frwn syntactic constructs, twoprinciples are inportant; detecting the syntactic construction and dealingwith anibiguity.
Syntactic constructs are syntactiddlly m k e d  in thesentence.
Thus, the pars& may be constructed such that thwe is a parsegenerated when those syntactic markings e present.
Tn the ATN, one maymnsmct the graphs representing the gmmmr such that there is a particularpath which is traversed if and only if the syntactic ccnstruct is present.Then, we may lassociate with that parti- path the txee .trensforsmtionyielding the presupposition of that syntactic construct.
For instance,cleft sentences are syntactically marked as the ward I ' i t U ,  followed by atensed form of l1beH 9 follwed by either a noun phnase or a prwpositianalphnase, follcrwed by a relative clause.
The path(s ) in the g ~ p h  might beas below*Associated w i t h  this path would be a t r i v i a l  -tree transformation whichre-tums the semantic representation of the relative clause as a presupposition,The second principle deals with ambiguity.
Even though we havestructured the gmphs in the way above, the same surface form may arisefrom t w o  different syntactic constructs, one having a presupposition andthe other not.
In such a case, our s y s t m  (and in fact any parser shouldbe able to give semantic representations for  both parses; with one paz-se oursystem yields a presupposition, w i t h  t he  ot- parse our system would nothave the presupposition.
It is the role of gens semantic and -ticccmponents to distinguish which semantic representation is intended in thecontext.
In fact, the difference in t he  presuppositions with the differingparses is one criterion which general semantic and --tic canponents coulduse to resolve the anibiguity.Fc& generating presuppositians of words (lexical entries) , the chief -pmblems are how to encode the tree tmnsformatiar in the lexicm ( d i c t i o ~ x y )-29-and when to apply it duping parsing.
In general a tlP6 tmnsfmtioll waiLdhave a l e f t  hand side which is the pattern to be mtched if thetransformation is to apply and a right hand side giving the tMnsformedswcture.The mason we can encode the left hand s ide in ?As gmmmr is simple.A l l  of the examples in the litemture deaiing with presuppositions fmnlexical entries have in c o m n  the fact that  the existence of the p ~ -supposition depends only upon the syntactic e n v i r 0 m - t  of the w o r d  and theword itself.
Hence, we can structure the g ~ p h  of the grammar in a waythat the paths correspond to the necessary syntactic envirorunents.
Uponencountering a word of the appmpriate syntactic category in such asyntactic e n v i r o m t ,  the system l m k s  in the lexicon under that w o r d  forthe (possibly empty) set of right hand sides of tree tmnsfomtions.The way of writing the right hand sides assurnes that the parser kt ~ v e r s i n g  a path undoes the syntactic construct encoded in that path, andassigns the components of the smmtic representation according to theirlogical role in the sentence rather than their syntactic mle.
(This is nota new idea, but rather has been used in several systems pre-dating ours, Asan example, the semantic representation of llMaryl' in the following threesentences muld be assigned to the sam register while parsing, "John gaveMary a ball", "Mary was given a ball by Johnn, and '?A ball  was given to Maryby John".
Thus, we can assume a convention for nanf5-g r e g i s t e r s  andassigning components of the sexlantic representation to them, independent ofthe syntactic e n v i r o m t .
To encode the right hand side of the treetransformation, we we a list whose first elmt i s  the .tree structure ~5thconstants as literal a m  and p i t i c n s  of variables as plus cigns.
The-30-rerraini?lg elements of the list specie the registers to fill in the variablepsi-tions .This, then, is how we i n t ep te  the tree trensformations forpresuppositions into the parse.
The lexical examples fm entaLh=nt alsomust employ tree tmnsfomtions but are complicated by the five differentclasses of predicates yielding entailments and their dependence on whetherme sentence is negated or nat.
A further canplicatim was i l l u s t ~ t e din section 3,  for a chain of entailmnts must be set up.For mtailments, we encode the left hand side and right hand side inthe same way as the lexical examples of presuppositions.
However, forentailments, for each ri&t hand s i d e  we also encode -three other pieces ofinformation.
They are the pre-condition of whether negation must be present(or absent), whether the entailed pmposition is negative or not, and whetherthe entailed propositional.
corresponds to the left sub-tree crr right sub-tree.At  each sentential level, we verify that the left hand side of the m et r w s f o m t i o n  is present.
If it i s ,  we make the transformation indicatedin the lexicon and save the resulting proposition along with the otheE threepieces of informtion mtioned above associated with it.
We save this ina binary tree, one level of tree sentential level.
It is a binary treesince a l l  predicates taking embedded sentences seem to  permit only one ortwo of its arguments to be anbedded sentences.Upon hitting the period (or question mark), all  of the negationinformation is pmsent so that we m y  simply traverse the tree fraan the mot,doing a compx?ison at each level to verifv that the mditions for negationbeing present (absent) are met.
This caapletes an outline or amputationof at-ts.Next we outline a solution to the projection problem, The s t r u c ~mlution to the projection plpblem w e d  in section 3 has simplecomputatiorpl r e q u b a m t s .
We have stxucttired the gmphs such thatmcucsion OCCUPS for each embedded sentence.
A t  each sententh1 lewl, thep p h  returns as a value a list of at least four elements: the semvlticrepresentation of the sentence at this level, a list of presuppositions ofthis  sentence and any embedded in it, a tree as described above for computingentailment at this and lower levels, as well as a list of semanticrepresentations of noun phrases encountered at this UP lawer levels.Just before popping to a higher sententid level a projection functionis applied, which is merely a CASE statement for the four?
cases described insectLon 3.
For holes, nothing is changed.
For speech act predicates andof propositioMll attitude, the pxsuppositims of enbedded sentences andppositions in the tree for entailments are enbedded under a specialsemantic primitive C CLAIM for speech acts, BEIlEVF, for verbs of propositionalattitude).
Ehibedding under these primitives places the presuppositions andentaibents in the world of the actor's claims or beliefs.For connectives, the ccmputation is just as described in section 3.Again, an embedding is involved, this time under a semantic primitive IF-DENto place the propositions in the mrld of the context created by the leftsentence of -l%e connective.We have only outlined hew to q u t e  presupposition and enta ihnt .Many interesting and complex aspects of the cartputation are detai3ed in-32-Weiachedel.
(1976 1.
For instance, external negation affects the c~mputationof presupposition, as does syntactic envbmmmt.
In general, the tense andt ime  o f  presuppositions or entailments oannot be cmputed simply by fillingslots in the semantic representation of the inference w i t h  registws con-taining pieces of semantic representation of the input eentence; T h e m ,a ~ ~ z a t i o n  of the BUILD function of an ATN is needed.
M e r ,  thecmputationd.
means to accum't: for the effect of negation on entailments oferrbedded sentences, for aibedded entaihents m t e d  tm presuppositions,and for the effect of opague and tmnsparent mference on presupposition arepmsented in Weischedel ( 1976 ) .4.3 what the SystemDOes Not DoThe limitations of the system are of two kinds: those that couldbe handled witbin the f h m  w o k  of the system but are not because of limits-tims of man-hours, and those that could not be handled wi* the presentflxamwrk.4.3.1 Limitations that  could be removedThe system is  currently limited in four ways, each of which could beremoved, given time.
One set of restrictions results froen the fact thatour pragrmn represents only a small part of a camplete natural langaugeprocessing system.
Only the syntactic component is included (though theseinferences, which are semantic, are canputed while parsing).
fQ aconsequence, no anbiguiq is resolved except that  which is syntacticallyresolvable.Second, though a trmsforsm.tional output component is included tofacilitate reading the output, it has a very limited range of constructions.The principles used in designing the component are sound though.A third aspect is caputation time.
Since our main interest was a newtype of computation for a syn-tactic ccxnponent, we have not stressedefficiency in time nor storage; rather, we have concentrated on writing thesystem fa i r ly  rapidly.
Considering the nLnnber of conceptually simple,efficiency meesures t h a t  we sacrificed for speed in implementing the system,we are quite pleased that the average CPU time to canpute the presuppositionand e n t a i h n t s  of a sentence is twenty seconds on the DEC -10.
Thenmerory requirements were 90K words including the LISP interpreter andinterpreter for a q p n t s  transition networks.
For further details and thesimple economies that we have not used, see Weischedel (1975).As a fourth class, we mention the syntactic constructions allowable asinput to the system.
We have not allwed several complex syntactic problema& are essentially independent of the pru>bf,ems of ccmputing ~ p p o s i t i o n sand r ntailmwts, such as oonjunath reduction, c2cap1ex anapharic reference,ar prepositional phrases on ram phrases.
(A resursive transiton networkis given ir Weischedel (19761, indicating exactly what syntactic constructionsare implemented.The n* of English quantifiers in the system is smaJ.1.
Also thedietionmy is of very modest size (approximately 120 stem w r d s  ) .
However,our ledcon is.pattmed after the lexicon of the linguistic s t r i n g  parser,.w h i c h  includes 10,000 wcods.
Therefore, we have avoided the p i t f a l l  ofgmmatical ad hocness.
(The Linguistic s ~ i n g  parser is described inEiage~ (1973).We have not included n o d a l  tenses or svbjunctive mod.
This is be-cause the effect of mDdals and the subjwtive 0 on presupposition andentailment has mt been fully mrked out yet.
A limited solution for mcrdalsand subjunctives has been wozked out f a  a micro-world of tictaotoe inJoshi and Weischedel (19 75 ) .4.3.2 Tihitations d i f f icu l t  to removeWe have dealt with specific time elements fw presupposition andentailment in a very limited way.
Time has been explicitly dealt with onlyfor -the aspectual verbs; however, time is implicitly handled in detail forall presuppositions and e n t a i h m t s  thmugh t q e  (see Weischedel 1976)).
Wehave not included time otherwise, because we feel that .the same solutionpresented far assigning tenses to pesuppositim and e n t a t  m y  beadapted for explicit the elemmts.A rime serious difficulty would arise if pre,suppositicns orentailmjmts were discowred whiceh depend on different information than anyconsidered up until this time.
For instance, the occurrence of presuppositionsthus far di$mvered has depended only on syntactic constructions, lexicalentries, and fhe four classes of enbedding predicates (holes, comectives ,speedh acts, and verbs of pr'spositional attitute).
The existence ofen-tailmenfs t?ius r'ar encountered has depended only on negation, syntacticconstructions, lexical entries, and the four classes of -ding predicates.It i s  conceivable that presuppositions and entailments w i l l  bediscovered which depend on other entities; for instance, presuppositions aren l x iben ts  of sorne predicate might be fourid to depend on the tense of thepredicate.
If such hanples are found, different means qf wit* lexicaleneies muld have be devised in order i~ encode these depehdencies.5.
Rale of presupposition and e n t a i h m tIn section 5.1, the role of preeuppcsitbn and entailments asinferences is pinpointed.
In section 5.2, the use of e m t i c  pr-tiwsis considered.5.1 XnferringThe tm ninfemncelf has been used recently to refer to anyconjecture made, given a text in scme natwal language.
Chamiak (1973,19721, Schank (19731, Schank and Rieger (19731, Schank, et.
dl.
(19751, andWilks (1975) mncenmte on such inferences.
A l l  of We projects seek scmecaqutational means as an alternative to farmdl deductive pmceduresbecause those tend to cambinatorial explosion.That presupposition and entailment are inferences is obvious.
H o w v ~ r ;the r e ~ ~ t  in their definition that they be independent of the 6 i t u a t h( a l l  context not =presented s t r u c U l y )  is strong.
For instance, fkmsentence S Wow, one might feel that St  should be entailed; yet, it is not.S :  John saw Jim in the hal l ,  and Mary saw Jim in his office.S : John and Mary s w  J h  in different places.By appropriately chosen previous texts,  S t  need not be true whenever S is.For example, the previous text might indicate that Jimt s office is in thehall.
general, ccwnon nouns do not seem t~ offer many examples ofpresupposition and entailment.
bxn the example, it is clear thatpresupposition and entailment are s t r i c t l y  a subclass of inferences.Presupposition and entailment are a subclass of inferences distinguishedin several ways: F i r s t ,  presuplpsiticm and entailment are reliable infmces,mmep than being d y  amjectures.
~ p o e i t i c o l s  are true whether thesentence is t rue 011 fabe.
Entaihmts AUgt be true f.f the sentence is true.Se@, presupwsition and entailment are W m c e s  that seem tobe tied to the structure of  language, for they m i s e  frcm syntactic structureand f k u n  d e f i n i t i a d  s t r u c m  of individual words.
The fact that theyare tied to the s~~ of language enables them to be caputed bys'h?utxuml means We.
, tree tmmsfcrrmations 1, a canputational means notappropriate far all inferences.Furthmre, since presupposition and entailment are tied to thesyntactic and def in i t ional  structwe of language, these inferences need t o  bemade.
For instance, upon encountering "John was mt able to leaveft, onereally 3ws want to infer the entailnvnt that "John did not leave".
Whetheror not it is wise t.., ccmpute conjectural inferences, on the other hand, doesnot have a bL~ip1e answer, by virtue of their conjectural nature.A fourth distinction of presupposition and entailment is in the problemof knowing when to stop inferring.
Inferences thanselves can be used to makeother inferences, which can be used to make still mre inferences, etc.
Whento stop the inferences is an open question.
Presupposition and entailment,as a subclass of inferences, do not exhibit such a chain xeaction ofinferences.
The reason is that pnesupposition and entailment arise f h m  eitherthe individual words or the particular syntactic constructs of the sentence;psuppositions and entailments do not themselves give rise to m s ~ e  infemces.We m y  smmr5-~e these distinguishing aspects of presuppositionand entailment by the fact that presupposition and entailment are inportantsemantically for understanding words and syntactic constructs.
This does notdeny the importance of other, inferences; conjectuml inferences are necessarytorepresant pragarrtic aspect8 of nanahrral language.-38-The role of presuppositim and entaihent in a m e t e  n a w  hqpqppmwshg system, then, i s  that they are a subcbass of the inferences whichthe system must ccnnpute.
I n f m c e 8  in g d  are made fmn an inputsentence in mjunction with the systemv s model of the context of the situation.Presupposition and entailment are a subclas of inferences associated withthe semantic s t r u c W  of particular wrds and with the syntactic structureof the sentence.
Thus, as we have shown, they my be cmputed while parsingusing lexical information and grwmatical hfoxl~tion.
The systemrs modelof the context of the situation is not needed to compute the psuppos i t i~nsand entailmen-ts for any reading or interpretation of a sentence; of course,to ascertain which reading or interpretation of a sentence is intended in agiven context, the system's rmdel of the context is essential.5.2 Sefiantic primitivesSemantic primitives have been investigated as the el-t w i t h  whichto associate inferences.
(See Schank (19731, Schank, et.al.
(1975),Yammashi (1972 )) .
This has the important advantage of capturing shardinfmces of many similar words by a semantic primitive, rather than repeatingthe s a w t i c  h f m - t i o n  for -those shared inferences for each word.
Inferenceswould be made in the  semantic a q o n e n t .The assumptions of our canputation do not preclude the use of primitivesin smantic representations.
On the oontrary, the particular $emanticmpresentations our system uses do include primitives.
Hmvm, we have notassociated the canputation of m p p o s i t i o n  and entz%Lmmt *th semanticprimitivesThe reason is that presuppositiavls arise fnm syntactic -cohstructs,as well as fran the semantics of particular wads.
Wher, syntactics.tryctwe aan inteMct w i t h  the entailments of words, as in the follaJing~ l e  .
Because S t  is presupposed by S, SVt becrmes a presuppositim of S,nat merely an entailment.S Who prevented John f h n  leaving?S' Someone *vented John f k m  leaving.St' John did not leave.To m u t e  such effects in the semantic ccmponent, sufficient syntactics~~ of the surface sentence would have to be available to the semanticcmponent.
Whether that is possible or whether that would be wise is notclear.
For that reason, we have not used semantic primitives to computeposition and entailment.6.
Conclusion' T k  mein goal of this work is its de~~>nstmticm of a met- fca.
w+tingthe lexicon and parser for the computaticm of presupposition and entai-t,and its exhibition of the procedures and data structures necessary t o  do this.Presupposition and entailment camprise a special class of inferences,distinguished in m e  ways.
Fi r s t ,  they both may be canputed strmc-y(by 'bree ~ s f o m a t i o n s )  , indepaWt of context not inherent in thestmctum.
Second, altho* inferences in general are conjecturgl,presupposition and entailment may be reliably asserted; entailments are trueif the sentence entailing them is true; presuppositions are true whetherthe sentence presupposing them is true or fdLse.
Ihird, since presuppositionand entailment are tied to the definitiondl and syntactic structure o?
thelanguage, they do not spam themselves nor lead to a chain reactLon explosion,as other S m c e s  may.We suggest two areas of future research.
One is t o  derive a means ofaccounting for presuppositions arising from syntactic constructs, in a wayconsistent w i t h  using semantic p~imitives  t o  account for lexical examplesof presupposition and entailment.A second area is suggested by the interaction of syntax and semanticsevident in presuppositions arising from syntactic constrw-ts.
A study ofphenomena that cut  across the boundaries of syntax, semantics, and pragnaticsand a ccmputational mdel incorporating them could prove very fruitful to ourunderstanding of n a W  languages.Indluded here is the output for seveml exemplary sentences.
'Thesemantic representations m a function and argwmt notaticpl developed byHarris (1970) snd M i e d  by Keenan (1972).
As in logic, variables arebound otitsi.de of the foxmula in which they are used, Any semantic primitivesm y  hi% beusad, a h l , g  aS they ?
?JIlP100y the f u n c t b  - ZWgWeIlt S y I l t a ~ .
Btd.3.8about the semantic mpresenticxm m y  be found in Weischedel (1975).We new describe the format of the output.
The first item is thesentence typed in.
N o t e  that /, mans carma and / .
means period, -we ofLISP delilniters.The searantic r e p ~ s e n t a t i o n  o f  the inplt sentence itself is printednext, under the heading f-C RFPRESENPATIOWt.Presuppositions not related to t h e  existence of referents of nounphrases are pr in ted under the 1-1 r'NON-NP REWPFQSITIONSfl.
Presuppositionsabout existence of referents of noun phrases are winted .under the labelltNP-mTED F%ESUPPOSITIONSF1.
The set of entailments follows the 'labeJ,~1ENTA7:mS".
If for any of these sets, the set is empty, then only theLabel is printed.
For the two sets of presuppositions and the set ofentailments, the semantic pepresentation of the set of entailments inKeenan's notation is printed first, then the English -phrase genemtedby the output component.Tn some cases t h e  tense of a presupposition is not loxxun.
In sufhinstances, the output component prints the stem verb followed by the ~p1b1r ' , m m " .Examples of presuppositions frcm syntactic constructs appear inexamples 1 and 2 ; the clef't construction gives a presupposition in 1; thedefinite noun phrase in 2 gives a presupposition.
Presuppusith frrrml& entries appear in 3 and 4. lTOnly" in 3 has a preqpmition; "fril"in 4 also has a presupposition.
Capa~ing 4 and 5 demns-tM.te8 thecanputation of a chain of entailments.Se- examples of  the projecticn problem have been included.
Ekaplesof predicates which are holes appear in 4 and 5.
The effect of speech actsappears in 6.
The effect of "if .
.
.
then1' (interpreted as mterial.
implication)is evident in 7 and 8.The terminal sessions follow.IT IS DR SMITH WHO TEACHES CIS591 /,SEMANTIC REPRESENTATION( (CIS591 /, X 0 0 0 6 )  ((DRSSIYITH /, X 0 B 0 5 )  (ASSERT T (IN-THE-PRESENT (BEIT (IN-THE-PRESENT ('MACkl X00B5 NIL X0006 ) )  ) ) ) ) )NON-NP PRESUPPOSITIONSrss91 /, xaae6) ((E INDIVIDUAL /, ~ 0 0 0 5 )  (IN-THE-PRESENT (TEACH x0NIL X 0 0 0 6 ) ) ) )SOME INDIVf DUAL TEACHES CIS591NP-RELATED PRESUPPOSITIONS((DRSSMITH /, X0085) (*UNTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X00i35) ) )DR SMITH EXIST -UNTENSED- IN THE SHARED INFORMATION( (CIS591 /, X0006)  ("UNTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X00R6) ) )CIS591 EXIST -UNTENSEDa IN THE SHARED INFORMATIOH .
((DRSSMITH /, X 0 0 0 5 )  (*ONTENSED (HUMAN X 0 0 0 5 ) ) )DR SMITH BE -UNTENSED- HUMANENTAILMENTSExample 1-45-THE PROFESSOR THAT I ADMIRE BEGAN TO ASSIGN THE PROJECTS /.SEMANTIC REPRESENTATION( ( ( (COLLECTIVE PROJECT /, X0010) (NUMSER X0810 TWObOR-MORE)) /, X8017) ( (  ( (THE PROFESSOR /, XdBcb8) (IN-THE-PRESENT (ADI4IRE I XU805))  ) /, X00@9) (ASSERT I (IN-THE-PAST (START (EVENT (ASSIGN X0B09 NIL X0817))N I L ) ) ) ) )NON-NP PRESUPPOSITSONS( ( ( (COLLECTIVE PROJECT /, X B 0 1 0 )  (NUMBER X0018 TWO-OR-MORE) ) /, X3817) ( (  ( (THE PROFESSOR /, XOBLIB) (IN-THE-PRESENT (ADMIRE I- X@e)W))) /, X0009 )  ((((E TIME /, X O a 1 8 )  (IMMEDIATELY-B$FOR2 X0018 NIL)) /, X0019)(AT-TIME (NOT (IN-THF-PAST (HAVE-EN (BE-ING (ASSIGN X0009 NIL X0017))) ) xe@3RS 1 1 1IT IS NOT THE CASE THAT THE PROFESSOR THAT I ADMXRE HAD BEENASSIGNING THE PROJECTSNP-RELATED PRESUPPOSITIONS([((E PROFESSOR /, X0008)  (IN-THE-PRESENT (ADMIRE I X 0 0 0 8 ) ) )  /, X0009) = (*ONTENSED ( IN-THE-SHARECf-INF3 XB'dd9) ) )SOME PROFESSOR THAT I ADMI RE E X I S T  -UNTENSED- I N  THE SHAREOI NFORMATION( (  ( ( E  PROJECT /, X0010) (NUMBER X0010 TWO-OR-MORE)) /, X0017) ("UNTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X 0 0 1 7 ) ) )SOME PROJECTS EXIST -UNTENSED- IN THE SHAREO INFORMATIONENTAl LMENTS((((COLLECTIVE PROJECT /, X O 0 1 0 )  (NUMBER X0010 TWO-OR-MORE)) /, X0817) ((((THE PROFESSOR /, X B 0 0 8 )  (IN-THE-PRESENT (ADHIRE T X 9 8 8 8 ) ) )  /, X(6809) ((((E TIME /, X W 2 8 )  (IMXEDIATBLY-AFTER X0928 NIL)) /, X8021) (AT-TIME (IN-TklE-PAST (BE-ING (ASSIGd X0809 NIL X007 7 )  ) ) X0i321) ) ) )THE YHOPESSOR THAT I ADMIRE WAS ASSIGNING THE PROJECTSExample 2ONLY JOHN WILL LEAVE 1.SEMANTIC REPRESENTATION( (  ( ( A  INDIVIDUAL /, X0067) ( ( J O H N  /, XB061) (NEQ X0@63 X M 6 1 ) )  ) /, X0862)  (ASSERT I (NOT (IN-THE-FUTURE (LEAVE X B 0 6 2 ) ) ) ) )NON-NP PRESUPP&~ITIONS((JOHN /, X006l) (IN-THE-FUTURE (LEAVE X0061 ) ) )JOHN WILL LEAVENP-RELATED PRESUPPOSITIONS((JOHN /, X 0 0 6 l )  (*UNTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X 0 0 6 1 ) ) )JOHN IWXST WUNTENSED- IN THE SHARED INFORMATION .ENTAZLMENTSExample 3T4AT DR SMITH FAILED TO CRALLENGE JOHN IS TRUE / mSEMANTIC Rl3PRESENTATION((JOHN /, X 0 0 4 5 )  ( (DRSSM1Ti-I /, X 0 0 4 4 )  (ASSERT I (IN-THE-PRESENT (TRUE(IN-THE-PAST (NOT (COME-ABOUT (EVENT (CHALLENGE X 0 0 4 4  X 0 0 4 5 ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )NON-NP PRESUPPOSITIONS( (JOHN I ,  X 0 0 4 5 )  ( (DRSSMITH /, X 8 0 4 4 )  (IN-THE-PAST (ATTEMPT (EVENT (CHALLBNGB X 0 0 4 4  X 0 0 4 5 ) ) ) ) ) )DR SMITH ATTEMPTED TO CHALLENGE JOHNNP-RELATED PRESUPPOSXTIONS((DRSSMITti /, X 0 8 4 4 1  (*UNTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X 0 8 4 4 ) ) )DR SMITH EXIST -UNTENSED- IN THE SHARED INFORMATTON( ( J O H N  /, XBB45) (*UNTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X0045 ) ) )JOHN EXIST -UNTENSED- IN THE SHARED INFORMATION .ENTAILMENTS( (JOHN /, X 0 0 4 5 )  ((DRSSMITH /, X 0 0 4 4 )  (IN-THE-PAST (NOT (COME-ABOUT (EVENT ( C ~ ~ A L L E N G E  ~ 0 8 4 4  x a a 4 S j ) ) ) )  1 )DR SMITH FAILED TO CHALLENGE JOHN .
( (JOHN /, X 0 8 4 S )  (.
(DR$SMITH /, X 0 0 4 4 )  (NOT (fNwTHEuPAST (CHALLENGE X 0044 X 0 0 4 S ) )  ) ) )IT IS NOT THE CASE TIiAT OR SMITH CHALLENGED JOHNExample 4THAT DR SMITH FAILED TO CHALLENGE JOHN IS FALSE /.SEMANTIC REPRESENTATION((JOHN /, X0048) ((DRSSMITH /, X0047) (ASSERT I (IN-THE-PRESENT (NOT(TRUE (IN-THE-PAST (NOT (COME-ABOUT (EVENT (CHALLENGE X 0 0 4  7 X0048)  ) ) )) ) ) I ) ) )NOff-NP PRESUPPOSITIONS( (JOHN /, X0088) ( (DRSSMITH /, X0047) (IN-THE-PAST (ATTEMPT (EVENT (CBALLENGE X0047  X 0 0 4 8 ) ) ) ) ) )DR SMITH ATTEMPTED TO CHALLENGE JOHN .NP-RELATED PRESUPPOSITIONS((DRSSMITH /, X0047) (*ONTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X 0 0 4 7 ) ) )DR SMITH EXIST -UNTENSED- IN THE SHARED INFORMATION .
( (JOHN /, X0048 )  (*UNTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X0048)  ) )JOHN EXIST -UNTENSED- IN THE SHARED INFORMATION .ENTAI LMENTS( (JOBN /, X0048 )  ( (DRSSNITH /, X 0 0 4 7 )  (NOT (IN-THE-PAST (NOT (COME-A5OUT (EVENT (CHALLENGE X0047 X0048) ) ) ) ) ) ) )IT- IS NOT THE CASE THAT DR SMITH FAILED TO CHALLENGE JOHN .
((JOHS /, X 0 0 4 8 )  ((DRSSMITH /, X 0 0 4 7 )  (IN-THE-PAST (CHALLENGE X0047 X0848) 1 )PR SMITH CHALLENGED JOHN .Example 5DR SMITH SAYS THAT A STUDENT FAILED TO LEAVE /.SEMANTIC REPRESENTATION((E STUDENT /, X0052)  ((DRSSMITH /, XO050)  (ASSERT I (IN-?HZ-PRESENT(CLAIM X0050  (IN-THS-PAST (NOT (COHE-ABOUT (EVENT (LEAVE X0052)  ) ) ) ) ) )1 ) )NON-NP PREGUl?POSITIONS( {DRSSMITH /, X0050)  (*UNTENSED (HUMAN X 0 0 S B )  ) )DR SMITH BE -UNTENSED- HUMAN( ( E  STUDENT 1,  X 0 0 5 2 )  ((DRSSMITH /, X0050 )  (IN-THE-PRESENT (CLAIM X(d050 (IN-THE-PAST (ATTEMPT (EVENT (LEAVE X0052) )  ) ) ) ) ) )DR SMITH CLAIMS THAT SOHE STUDENT ATTEMPTED TO LEAVE .NP-RELATED PRESUPPOSITIWNS((DRSSMITH /, X0058)  (*UNTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X 0 0 5 0 ) ) )DR SMITH EXIST -UNTENSED- IN THE SHARED INFORMATIONENTAILMENTS( (E STUDENT /, XB052)  ( (DRSSMI TH /, X0050) (IN-THE-PRESENT (CLAIM X9050 (NOT (IN-THE-PAST (LEAVE X 0 9 5 2 ) ) ) ) ) ) )DR SMITH CLAIMS THAT IT IS NOT THE CASE THAT SOME STUDENT LEFTExample 6-50-IE' JOHN LEFT /, THEN MARY APPRECIATED THAT HE LEFT /.SEMANTIC REPRESENTATION( (MARY /, X0056)  ( (JOHN /, X0054 )  (ASSERT I (IF-THEN (IN-THE-PAST (LEAVE X 0 @ 5 4 )  ) (IN-THE-PAST (APPRECIATE X0056 (FACT (I N-THE-PAST- (LEAVEX 0 0 5 4 ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )NON-NP PRESUPPOSITIONS( (JOfiN /, X 0 0 5 4 )  (IF-THEN (IN-TBE-PAST (LEAVE X 0 0 5 4 )  ) (IN-THE-PAST (LRAVE X0054) ) ) )IF JOHN LEFT THEN JOHN LEFT((MARY /, X0056)  ( (JOHN /, X0054)  (IF-THEN (IN-THE-PAST (LEAVE X0054)) ("UNTENSED (HUMAN X 0 0 5 6 ) ) ) ) )IF JOHN LEFT THEN MARY BE -UNTBNSED- HUMAN .NP-RELATED PRESUPPOSITIONS( (JOHN /, X0054)  (*UNTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X0054)  ) )JOHN EXIST -UNTENSED- IN THE SHARED INFORMATION .
((J0H.N /, X0054)  (IF-THEN (IN-THE-PAST (EEAVE X0054) )  ((MARY /, X0056) (*UNTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X 0 0 5 6 ) ) ) ) )IF JOHN LEFT THEN MARY EXIST -UNWNSED- IN THE SHAREDI NFORMATIONEWTAI LMENTSExample 7-51-IF JOHN MANAGED TO LEAVE THEN MARY WILL ADMIRE BIM /SEMANTIC REPRESENTATIQN( (MARY /, X0060) ((JOHN /, X0058)  (ASSERT X (IF-THEN (IN-THE-PAST* K OME-ABOUT (EVENT (LEAVE %00 58)  ) ) ) (IN-THE-FUTURE (AQMIRE X0060 X0858) )) I ) )NON-NP PRESUPPOSITIONS(JOHN /, xaarP)  (IN-TBE-PAST (ATTEMPT (EVENT (LEAVE ~ 0 0 5 8 )  ) ) )JOHN ATTEMPTED TO LEAVE .Nc-RELATED PRESUPPOSITIONS( (JOHN /, X0058)  (*UNTENSED ( TN-THE-SHARED-INFO X0058) ) )JOHN EXIST -UNTENSED- IN THE SHARED INFORMATIOW .
( (JOHN /, X0058)  (IF-THEN (IN-THE-PAST (COME-ABOUT (EVENT (LEAVE X00S8 ) ) ) )  ((MARY /, X00612)) (*UNTENSED (IN-THE-SHARED-INFO X 0 0 6 0 ) ) ) ) )IF JOHN M A W E D  TO LEAVE THEN MARY EXIST -UNTENSED- IN THESHARED INFORMATION .ENTAI LMENTSExample 8REFERENCESChard&, Eugene, ~ l T ~ a r d  a Model of Children's Story ~ e n s i o n v .Artificial Intelligence Laboratory Report AI TR-266.
Cambridge, MA:Massachusetts Ins t i t u t e  of 'rechnology , 1972.Charniak, Eugene, "Jack and Janet in Search of a Theory of Knowledgen.
InPmceedings o f  the Th i rd  International Joint Conferynce on ArtificialIntelligence.
Palo Alto, CA: Stanford Research Xnstimte , 1973.Clark, H. M. and Haviland, S .
E. , ~Corrrprehension and the Given-New Con-tpaetIt,in Discome Production and Comprehension (ed .
R. Freedle ) , LawrenceBlbaum Associates, Millside, N.J., 1976.F5.lImre, C .
Y e  , "Verbs of Judging: an Ekercise in S m t i c  Desmi~tion".In F i l h r e  and Langendoen; studies in Linguis t i c .Smt ics .
NLW York:Holt , Rinehart , and Winston ,ml.Givon, Tdlmy , "The Time--Axis Phenomenontt.
Language 49,411973 7 : 890-925.Harris, Z .
S .
, "Tho Systems of Gr- : Report and Paraphraseu.
In Harris,Structural and Transformational Linguistics.
Dordrecht , Holland : D.Reidel Publishing Co. , 19 70.Haviland , S .
E .
and Clark, H.M. , "What ' s New?
Acquiring new informationas a process in Comprehension.
Journal of V e r b a l  Lmrnhg and VmbalBehavior, 13, 1974.--Isard , S .
, "What Would You Have Cone I f .
.
.
?"
Unpublished, 1974.Joshi .
A, K. .
and Weischedel, R.M.
, ''Some Frills for PMal Tic-tac-toe :tics of Predicate ~6mplemkn-t Constru@ionst', IEEE Transactions onElectronic Computers Special Issue on Artificial Intelligence, April 1976.k t t u n e n ,  L a u r i ,  "On the Saxintics of Complement Sentences".
Ih Papers f r o mthe Sixth Region@ Meetkg of the Chicago Linguistic Society.
Chicago:University of Chicago, 1970'.tic Inqw Karttunen, Lami, llPresupposit ions of Compound Sentences".
L i n .N(1973): 169-193.KArttunen, Lauri, "Presupposition and Linguistic Context".
T n e o r e t i dLiin&stics 1, 1/2(1974):182-194:Kwttunen, Lauri and Petem, Stanley, "Conventional 3nplioa-tt.m in MontagueGmm~".
Presented at the F h t  Annual Meeting of Berkeley L,inguisticSociety, FelxYary 15, 1975.
Berkeley, Cfl.Keenan, Edward, L. , A Logical Base for Ehglish.
Unpublished DoctorelDiss&atioh, University of.
Pennsylvania, 19 69.KeeMn, Ehyard L., Kinds of Presupposition in M t m l  Iimguagesff.
InFi l lmre  and Langendoen, Studies in Ihguistic Semntics.
New Yak:Holt , Rineha&, and Winstan, 1971.Keenan, Edward L., "On Semantically Based (2immtT.
Linguistic InquiryIIJ(1972) : 413-461.K,,iparsky, Paul ad Carol, "Factfl.
h Steihbwg and J&bovits,Semantics.
New Y&k: Cambridge Univer~m press j 1971.Wff, George, HPresupposition and Relative Well-fomednesstl.
In Steinbergand Jakobovits, Semantics.
New York: Cambridge University Press, 1971.Lehnert, Wendy, "What Makes Sam Run?
Script Based Techniques for Questionh s w k ~ i n g ~ ~ .
In Proceedings of $he Wprkshcp on Theoretical Issues inNabnil.
Language Processing.
Association $or C q u ~ t i o n a l  Linguistics,1975.bsenschein, Stanley J. , S jLexical Information and Event Int&pretaticm.
F'h .D .
LIissePtat ion, University'of Pennsylvanla, 197 5.Sager, Naomi, 'The S t r i n g  Parser fo r  Scientific Literature".
In Rustin,Natural Language Pmcessing.
New Yo&: AlgoritMcs Press, 1973.Schank, R., '!The Fourteen Primitive Actions and Their Inferences".
Starifon$A.
I. Mm-183.
Palo Alto, CA: Computer Science Deprbnent , S t a n f o r dUniversity, 1973.Schank, Roger C .
, and Reiger , Charles J. , 111.
"Inference and the ComputerUnderstanding of Natural Language".
Stanford A. I. Memo-197.
Palo Alto,CA: muter Science Department, Stanford University, 1973.SchaTlk, Roger C .
, et .
al, "Inference ind Paraphrase by Computern.
JournalACM - 22, 3(July 1975): 309-328.Schank, Roger C., "Using Knowledge to Understand".
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Theoretical Issues in Natural Language Rxcessing.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics, 1975.Smaby , Rid-md, "Consequence, Presuppositions and Cmeferacetl.
To appear inTheoretical Linguistics, 1975.Weiscbedel, Ralph M. , ltCaputatifn of an Unique Class of Inferences :A?esuppusitbn and b-tw .
Ph.D. Dissertaticn, Univemity ofkrru3y1&, 1975.Weischedel., Ralph M. "A New Semantic Computation While Parsing: Presuppositionand Ehtaimt ,Iv Technical Report 676, Dement of M m t i o n  andhputter Science, University of Cal'ifornia, I n h e ,  CA, 1976.Wilks, Yorick, "A Prefera t id ,  Pattern-seeking, Semantics fcr NaturalLanguage Inferenceu.
Artificial Intelligence 6 (1975) : 53-74.Winogmd, T. , Understanding Natural Language.
New York: Academic Press, 197 2 .Woods?
W.A., "TMnsition Network Q?am~xs far Natwal Lan&uage AndZy~is~~ ,Cc~rm.
Am 13 ,lo (October 1970) : 591~606.Woods, U.A., "An Ekperhtal  Pamhg System far  TMnsition Network GMmnarsrt.In Rustin, Natmal Language Processing.
New Yo~k: A l g a r i ~ c  Press, 1973.Y-ki, Ma-aki, l t L R x i c a l  Decc~npositim and DrplLied PIK)position".Unptiblished paper.
University of Michigan, 1972American Journal of Computations!
Linguistics Microfiche 6 3  : 57IN'FORMATION CHANGES,CONCERNS, CHALLENGES:1977 N FAtS Annual ConferenceChang~ng Role of GovernmentChanger and Challenges in lndeAngCohcerns rn ResearchChallenges of Deposited DocumentsSchedule o f  EventsTuesday, March 8, 19778 00 a m -5 00 p m - Reg~strat~on(Roanoke, Rappahannock, and James Rooms)March 8-9, 19779 00 a m 9 15 a.m Welcome and General ProgramIn troduct~onStouffer's Nat~onal Center HotelArl~ngton, VirginlaN~neteenth Annual ConferenceWecome.
John E. Creps, Jr,NFAiS Pres~dentEngtneer~ng lhdex, /nc,Program Ou tl ine Russell /.
Ro wlett, /r.7 9 77 Conference Program ChalrmonChemrcal Abstracts Serv~ce9 15 a m -10 45 a,m Theme Session I The ChangingRole of GovernmentInformation ProgramsCka~rman Hubert E. SauterDefense Supply AgencyGeorge P. Chandler, Jr.National Aeronautics and SpaceA dmmistrutionFred E. CroxtonLI brarydf CongressWilliam M. ThompsonDefense Documentutfon CenterNATJONAL FEUERATION OF ABSTRACTlNG & INDEXlNO S?RWES3401 MARKET STREET + PHILADELPHIA, PA. 19104 (215) 349-849511:OO a.m..12; 15 p.m.
Continuation nf Theme Session IA.
G. HoshovskyDepartment of TransportationPeter E UrbacbNotional Technical InformationService12:15 p.m.-2:00 p.m.
Lunch Break(Attendees must make the~r ownarrangements)2:00 p.m. 4:30 p m Theme Session I I: Indexing, theKey to RetrievalCha~rman.
Lois GranlckAmerrcan Psychoiog~calAssoc~at~onWednesday, March 9,19778:30 a.m.-2:00 p.m. - Registration(Roanoke, Rappahannock, and James Rooms)9:00 a.m.=11.45 a.m. Theme Session Ill: CurrentActivities Related toAbstracting and Indexing ofthe National ScienceFoundation Division ofScience InformationChalrmar, LeeG.
BurchinalNutlonal Science Foundutron* Techniques Used In Pr~ntedIndexesA Keyword or Natural LanguagelndexlngJoyce Duncan FaikAmerrcan BI bliographicalCenter, CLIO PressB, Thesaurus or Con trolledLanguage lndex~ngPeter ClagueINSPECBen-Am/ LipetzDocb men tction A bstrac tr,lnc* Computer Generated lndexlng(re-indexing) for On-t~neRetrievalDonlei U. WildeNew England Research Applrca-tron Center4.30 p.m.-5.30 p.m. NFAlS Assembly BusinessMeeting6:00 p,m.8:00 p.m. Conference-w~de Reception(Decatur Room)(speakers to be announced)- No coffee break th~s  morning -11:45 a.m.-12:30 p.m.
Miles Conrad Mernor~alLectureDr, William 0.
BukerBell Laboratorres* * *Dr. Baker has long been actlve In sc~entlflc andtechnical Information matters at a natlonal level.
Hecha~red the panel of the President's Sc~ence AdvisoryCommittee that authored the landmark study"lmprov~ng the Availabtllty of Sctentlflc and Technicallnformatlon In the Un~ted States" (The Baker Report)In 1958 He also served as chalrman of  the ScienceInformation Couscil of the Natlonal Science Founda-tton from 1959 through 1961 and was a member ofthe Welnberg Panel that produced the report"Sclence, Government, and Information" In 1963.He currently is  a member of  the Board of Regents ofthe Nat~onal Library of Medlclrle, a dlrcctor of AnnualRevlews, Inc., a member of the Natbnal Commissionon Ltbrrnes and Informatron Sclence, and a partici-pant In many h e r  Important natlonal committeesand cornmlsslons.The Mlles Conrad Memorlal Lecture was estabi~shedto honor G. Miles Conrad, first president of NFAlSThis lecture IS "to be presented every year at theAnnual Meeting of the Federation by an outstandingperson on a sultable toplc In the field of abstract~ngand index~ng, but above the level of  any individualserv~ce.
"12 30 p m 2'00 p m Conference Luncheon(Decatur and Farragu t Rooms)2 pin -4 30 p m Theme Session IV DeposrtedDocuments and OtherEvolvlng Publicdticm Med~aCharrman lames L WoodChemical Abstmcts SemceKarl k HeumannFederation of Amer~cnt~~Societres for ExperimentalB~oloqyLatry X BesantThe Ohio State ~nrve'rsit~Albert L BathArner~can Sooety for Testmgand MaterrolsNFAXS3401 Market Str~etPhiladelphia, Pennsylvania , 19104Telephone: (215) 349-8495N1 NFAlS Nmletter Subscr~ptron - -per calenderyew hswed br monthly) Separate issues ava~lablehtSsmerChREPORT SERIESR9 Pooirrm Statsmt on SATCOM Hooort, January,1970, SsmR6 N l t l o d  W a t r o n  of Abstrretinp and lndexlng%nr~t%c Member Ssnr~ce Descriptions, July, 1973s6,wFPl1 On L ~ n e  Commands Chart (A Quick Users Gu~defor B~bllographic Search Systems) Barbara Lawrencemd Barbara G Prew~tt May, ID75$1 00FP12 KEY PAPERS (On the Use of Computer-BasedBrbtiographlc Servtces) Joint publl~atron w~drAmeriqn Soc~ety for Informa'tron ScrenceOctober, 1973 $1000 lASlS 81 NFAlS Memban SO01NOTEm Contans Federstlon Report No 2 DataElement Defind~ons for Secondary Ssnrles Jme,197 1, and Report No 4, The Canallan NationalSclent~irc and Technical Informatian (STI) System,A Progress Reporb Jack E. Brawn (1972 MllesConrad Memorial Lecture, May, 1972)CP2 1070 Comerence Digest, aorton, Me# , September,1970 $7 50RO ~eirl#llj.teratum Idsatan.
Prqst wppor~d CP3 1988 Annual Confe~.ence Proceedrngs, Rqlergh.by M$C &IS Canttact C8?3 May,  11975 $6 00 hl G, September, 1970 $10 00 ICP4 1983 Annwl M s t r i i S A I S ,  Wd~ngton,D C .
Much #)22,1- (Contains tlw NationalAmencan Journal of Computational Linguistics Microfiche 63 : 60for the Advancement of S c i e ~ e  BECKER AND HAYES, INC.-1 1661 SAN VICENTE BLVD.SECTION QN INFORMATION AND COMMU NICATION-T LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 90049JOSEPH BECKER, Secretary (213) 820-2683Eugene Garfieldfnstitute for Scientific InformationMEMBER-AT-LARGE Richard H. Belknap(SECTION COMMITTEE) National Research CouncilNOMINATING COMMITTEE Marilyn C. BrackenChevy Chase, MarylandJohn W. MurdockInformatics, Inc.~ { E W  FELLOWS OF SECTION TLee G, BurchinalRuth M, DavisOdom FanningEMERGING NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL POLICY ON INFORMATION Frame 6 1BEYOND GUTENBERG: COMMUNICATION WITHOUT PAPER?
Frame 63A CYBERNETIC APPROACH T O  ASSESSMENT O F  CHILDREN Frame 64INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATION I N  BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH Frame 66THE MANY FACES O F  INFORMATION SCIENCE Frame 67The following frames contain lists of participants and summaries ofsymposia as furnished by organizers in the fall of 1976.Nembers, Section T23 Bovernber 1976Page 3 .EMERGING NATXOfiAJ; AND ZNTERNATIONAI; POLICYArranged by L. B. Heilprin (University of Maryland): withE.
B. Adams (George Washington Univers i ty) :  A.
A. Aines(National Science Foundation): and, G. Chacko (Universityof S ~ u t h e r n  CaliZoPhia)Tuesday ,' 22 February Holiday Inn, Silver Plume9:00 a.m. Presiding: ~ l i z a b e t h  B. Xdijrns (Assac .
Prof., Management,George Washington university)Impact of Science and Technology on Information SystemsJoseph C. R. Licklider (Prof. of Elqcerical Eng.
,  MIT)Impact of New Technology on National Copyright PolicyArthur J. Levine (Natl.
Camm.
on New Technol.
Useso f  Copyrighted Works)FCC Policy Towards Computers and CommunicationDonald A.  Dunn (Prof.  of Eng .
Econ, Systems,Stanford University)Are there "Responsible Computer Systems" and is aNational Policy in Sight?Ruth M. Davis (Dir., I n s t ,  f o r  CoMputer Sciencesand Technol.,  Natl.
Bur.
Standards)Discussants: Elizabeth B. Adams, Ruth M. ~ a v i s ,qonald A. Dunn, A r t h u r  J. Levine, and JosephC.
R. L i c k l i d e r3:00 p.m. Presiding: Laurence B. Heilprin (Prof. Emer.
ofIn fo .
Science ,  University of Maryland)Conf l i c t  and Agreement Between National and I n t e r n a t i o n a lPolicy on CopyrightBarbara A. Ringer (Register of Copyright, Libraryof Congress)Global Probems in Internationa1,Information SharingAndrew A. Aines (NSF and Natl.
Comm.
on Lib.
andInfo.
Science)Is an I n t e r n t i o n a l  Po l icy  o r  Meta-Policy on Informationin Sight?~ o n a l d  G.  Fink (Exec.
Consultant, IEEE)Discussants: Andrew A.
A i n e s ,  L e w i s  M. Branscamb,Donald G. Fink, Laurence B. Heilprin, andBarbara A.  RingerMembers, Sect ion T23 November 197 6Page 4 .Evidence that the post  i n d u s t r i a l  s o c i e t y  i s  an informationsociety includes p r o l i f e r a t i o n  of data and informatio-ngcommunity of researchers and writers, p r o c e s s o r s  and d i s s e m i n a t o r s  ;increase i n  number and variety of channe l s  t h a t  handle  and de l ive rin format ion ;  i n s t i t u t i o n a l i z a t i o n  and i n t e r n a t i o n a l i z a t i o n  ofinforma,t ion systems, networks,  programs.
A f e w  countries, with t h eUnited States i n  the van,  are emerging as information s o c i e t i e semploying electronics as key means of i n fo rma t ion  banking and d e l i v e r y .As we enter this age economists, p o l i t i c a l  s c i e n t i s t s ,  s 6 c i o l o g i s t s ,l e g i s l a t o r s  and public administrators dea l  i n c r e a s i n g l y  w i th  issueswhich may emerge a s  a composite n a t i d n a l  p o l i c y  on information.
Inparal lel ,  i n t e r n a t i o n a l  issues and policies a r e  t a k i n g  shape.
Themorning sesslon w i l l  consider n a t i o n a l  pol icy, .The afternoon s e s s i o n  w i l l  ex tend t h e  d i s c u s s i o n  t o  i n t e r n a t i o n a lpolicy.
Special emphasis will be placed on needs of developed anddeveloping countries and on information b a r r i e r s  t h a t  separate them,including the  impera t ive  t o  remove barriers a s  wisely as p o s s i b l e .Each s e s s i o n  w i l l  end with a "blue sky" discussion, open to thefloor..
They w i l l  consider such matters as o b s t a c l e s  t o  flow ofknowledge i n  e x i s t i n g  n a t i o n a l  and i n t e r n a t i o n a l  channe ls ;  p o s s i b l eimpacts of y e t  new t e l ecomunica t ion  technoIogy; need fqr p o l i c i e sconcerning c o n d u i t s  of knowledge and the f low of s c i e n t i f i c  andt e c h n i c a l  in format ion ;  and the need t o  f a c i l i t a t e  t he  one-worldglobal  village thrust d e r i v i n g  from t h e  in fo rma t ion  technology andOther  r e v o l u t i b n s .
(Sponsored by AAAS S e c t i o n  T. cosponsored by S e c t i o n  P and bythe American Soc ie ty  f o r  Information Science)Members, S e c t i o n  T23 November 1976Page 5 .BEYOND GWENBERG,: JJDMMUNICATZON WITHOUT- PAPER?Arranged by Harold E. Bamford, 3r.
(Program Di~ector, Access ImprovementProgram, National Science Foundation, Washington, D.C.)Wednesday, 23 February Holiday Inn ,  Cripple Creek9:00 a.m. Presiding: Harold E. Barnford, Jr.An On-Line In te l l ec tua l  CommunityDr.
Murray ~ u r o f fGetting and Using S c i e n t i f i c  Zafokmation a t  a ComputerTerminalDr.
Williafi Pais l eyAccess to Computer-Readable Data and L i t e ra tu reDr.
Roger SummitRecording Newly Discovered InformationMr.
Davld Sta igerToward an integrated Communication SystemD r .
George ChackoEven if the paper-based communication system of science cancontinue t o  expand w i t h  the body of knoQledge and t h e  population ofusexs, it offers little hope that s c i e n t i f i c  information will ever bemuch more r ead i l y  accessible than it is today.
An a t t r a c t i v e  a l t e r n a t i v emay result from the  marriage of computer technology with  telecommunicationsT h e  panel w i l l  discuss  various opt ions  of this electronic alternative,considering t h e i r  l i k e l y  impact an user productivity and demand forinformation services, their technical and economic feasibility, t h e i rlegal and pol icy implications, and obstacles t o  t h e i r  rea l iza t ion .
I npreparing their presen ta t ions  the panelists will have engaged each otherov'er a period of months i n  computer conference, one of the techniqueswhlch they will discuss.ISponsored by AAAS Section T )MeIllbers, Section T23 N o v ~ ~ S  1976Page 6 .TOWARD THE HUMAN USE OF HUMAN B E ~ G s  :A CYBERNETIC APPROACH TO ASSESSMENT OF CHILDRENArranged by Mark N. Ozer  (ASSOC.
Prof. c h i l d  Health & Development,George Washington School of Medicine, Washingtonf D.C.)Wednesday, 23 February Holiday Inn, Silver Heels3400 p.m. presiding: Frank Baker (Dix, ~ i v .
Comrnun, Psych.
,S U ~ Y ,  Buffalo, N O Y O )The J o i n t  Regulation of Infqnt-child In terac t ionT.
Berry Brazel ton (Assoc.
Prof.
Ped., HarvaxdMed.
Sch.
,  Boston, Mass.
)A Cybernetic Approach to Psy~hological TestingIrving E. Sigel (Educational Testing Serv i ce ,Princeton, N. J.
)Cybernetic TestingBernard Brown (Div.
Res.
& Eval., Off.
child ~ e v e l .
,Washington, D,C,)Assessment as an Interactive ProcessMark N. Ozeris cuss ants: William Powers (author, Northbfook, Ill,)H i s t o r i c a l l y ,  cybernetics has tended to  focus on the  i n t e r a c t i o nbetween people and machinks.
Cybernetic issues of contro l  and feedbackof information are to be explored i n  this symposium as they relate tohuman in terac t ion .
The application of these  ,issues to human systemsrequires an awareness of the sharin of control and informational + feedback as the aspect to be h l g h l i g  ted.
More s p e c i f i c a l l y ,  theassessment of children w i l l  be explored as a place to illustrate thevalue or this concept.
The traditional t e s t i n g  process has viewedthe  subject as someone who is to be manipulated by the examiner, Theappl icat ion of a cybernet ic  approach to assessment o f f e r s  a model forthe revision o f  the power re la t i onsh ip  that has d i r e c t  re levance  tothe  process of c h i l d  development.
The examiner is intent upon t h ee f f ec t s  of the  very process ~i examination on the person being assf?ssed.In order to sample the process of child development, the examiner mustnow stimulate it.
The individual being examined must become aware ofsome rec iprocal  effect upon the examiner as a s imulation o f  whathappen9 i n  the natural  process of growth and development.
Assessmentis viewed as tnore nearly an interactive process between the ind iv idualsinvolved.
The person being examined is no longer merely subject to theAAAS Section T 6 5examiner.
With even r a the r  young children, it becomes p s s i b l e  tomake suoh reciprocal e f f e c t s  explicit by providing feedback as to thevalue Of the i n p u t  p r ~ v i d e d  to the in teyac t ion .
It is the feedbackas to the reciprocity of the relationship t h a t  is t h e  c r ~ c i a l  parametert h a t  distinguishes the human use o f  cybernetic concepts.
(Sponsored by the American Society  fo r  cybernetics and AAASSections 3 ,  T, and Q)SCFENCE INFORMATIONXNTERNAT IONAL COWUNICATION FORRESEARCR XN BIQMEDICINEArranged by Ar thur  W .
Elias ( D i f e c t o r  of Professional Services,BioScience Informatioh Service, Phila., Pa.)Wednesday, 23 February Denver M i l t g n ,  Beverly3:00 p.m. Presiding: Arthur W, El ias~ommunications for Research in Biomedicine in theun i t ed  Kingdom and Commonwealth Countries~ r i a n  Perry (British L i b r a r y )Communications fo r  Research in Biomedicine inWestern E U ~ Q P ~Rolf Fritz (dimdi)Communications for Research in Biomedicine in CanadaGeorge Ember; (National Research council)~ommunications for Research in ~iornedicinti?
inScandinaviaGoran Falkenberg (MIC, Karolinska I n s t i t u t e t )Communicatiohs lor Research in Biomedicine in theUnited S t a t e sMary Corning Pa t iona l  L ib ra ry  of Medicine)Communications for Research in Bibmedicine in UNISIST-The World SystemL e e  Burchinal (National Sc ience  Foundation)The symposium will attempt to b r i n g  together authoritativedecision makers i n  the fields of biomedical information retrievalfrom t h e  sc ient i f ic  world.
It will try to redate n a t i o n a l  a c t i v i t i e sof t h e  present  in supporting biomedical research through l n f a r m a t i o nactivities and to forecast future impacts and developments.
Inaddition t o  n a t i o n a l  plans,  t he  symposium w i l l  a t t e m p t  globalperspectives i n  r e l a t i on  to r e g i o h a  cooperation (eg.
EEC) andoverall programs ('JNISIST) .
(Sponsared by AAaS Section T)THE M Y  FACES OF INFORMATION SCLENCEArranged by' Edaard C .
Weiss (Program Director, Information ScienceProgram, Div is ion  of Science Information, National Science~aundation, Washinqton, D.C. )Friday, 25 February Denver Hi1 ton, Denver9:00 a.m. Presiding: Edward C. WeissAn Integrated Theory of Informatidn TranSferWilliam Goffman (Dean, Sch, of L i b .
Science, CaseWestern Reserve Univers i ty)Theoret ics  7f Information f o r  ~ecision-MakingMarshall C, Yovits (Chrn., Dept.
of Computer and Info,Science, Ohio Sta te  University)Information Structures in the Language of ScienceN a o m i  Sager ( ~ i n g u i s t i c  String Project ,  N.Y.  University) -Knowledge Transfer Sys terns,Donald J. Hil lman (~ir., Center for Info .
S c i e n c e ,Lehigti ~niversi ty)The Portent  of Signs and Symbolsvladimir Slamecka ( D i r ,  School of Info .
and ComputerScience, Georgia Institute of Technology)THis symposium w i l l  examine t h e  various faces of informationscience as an emerging discipline.
The growth in the developmentof digital technology in,the l a s t  quarter century has been phenomenal,yet there is 'a surprising mismatch between the high capacity of thetechnology and t;he lagical level at which it is employed fori n f o h a t i o n  and re tr ieva l .
The problem appears to be with the  stateoP we diskipline i tself;  we have been t r y i n g  to develop and apply atechnology w i thou t  having a well-developed s c i e n t i f i c  foundation uponwhich to support it.
A discipline rests on three major parts: ascience, applicatians , and education; -each part 'must support t h eothers ,  In information sclence, the weakest, component today is thescience i t se l f .
Two questions emerge: what does information scienceconsist 04 and how can we skrgnqt.hen it to provide sou'hd theoreticalstructure from ~ h i f h ~ f u t u r e ' a p p l i c a t i o n s  w i l l  derive.
The pu'rposeof this symposium is' to review the  cur ren t  sta tus  and explureposbibilities for break-throughs.
(Spansofed by the American Society for Information Science andthe AAAS Section T)American Journal of Comp~tati~nd Lhgd~tia Microfiche 63 : 68New JournaiEDITORSI An Interdlsciplina~ Tluarterly crf bnguage Studlea1 Aims and Scopee~ghboring disciplinesng interest in human linguisticf langhage systems).n the sb'cial aspects oflanguage acqu&mon,ge In context", theoryheory of soC~al actlon,of the growing ins~ght1 s t ~  activltyl is socialas been men1fe3t forheoret~cal discipline, has formu-e area of the theoretical foundations,r understanding ande of language as ona of mhn's tools for'soc~etal' ~nteraction.first journal to aim 8tpragmat~c stud~es of, and will cover all aspects involved It will attempt toalds of soc~ohnguisr~cs,psychohnguistics, man-machine interaction, applied linguistics, I and several other areas.The advlsory editors will nor only act as speclali&s in theirrespective fMds, but wilt furthermore attempt to integratedevelopments'or~ginatng in diffarent tsclentlfic as wett as geo-~raphlcall areas, thereby providing a forum for mutual infor-mation and Increased debate on ongoing research and practicalprojects.
Linguisr~, anthropologists, philosophers of Istnguage,as well es workers from related fieldswll find much of interestJACOB L, MEYOdense Univera~tyNi& Bohrs All& 25OK-5000 OdenseDenmark1 HARTMUT HABERLANDRoskllde U nlverslty CenterP 0 Box 260DKJlOOP RosklldeDenmarkREVIEW EDITORFERENC KlHERHu nqanan Academy of SclencesSzenthiSromdg utca 3ti-1012 BudapestHungaryBoard of Advisory Editorsin the artcles now belng prepared for the forthcoming issuesby experts in the varioushareas of linguistic pragmatics.J.
Allwood, Unlversrty of Gothenbutg,SwedenP.B.
Anderaen, Unnrerslty of Aarhus,DenmarkT Andenen, Aalborg Univwsrty Center,DenmarkR.
Bartsch, Un~vdrs~ty of Amsterdam,The NetherlandsR.M.
Blakar, Unmrsity of Oslo,N o m yS.
DTk, Unnrerslty of Amsterdam,The NetherlendsN.
Dittmar.
Universtty of Heldelberg,W.
GermanyG.
Drschmah, Unhrersrty of Salzburg,Austriana, 1 ,Editorial: Pragmatics and lingui'stics IH.
Haberland and Meyl,Assertions, conditional speech acts, and practical inferences ID.Wunderlich).
School prowms of regional dialect speakers: ideologyand reality.
Results andmethods of empiricak investigatibns in South-ern Germany (V. AmmonJ.
Methbddogical questions about artificialintelligence : approaches to understanding natural language (Y. Wilksl.The classification of question~answer structures in English (M.Baumert), Reviews.iio.
2What is a theory of use?
(A. Kasher).
Patterns in purported speechacts (0.
Hackman).
"I'm dead".
A lingy istic an;lysis.
of paradoxicaltechniques in psychotherapy (S. Tlo"rnei-~oetr and D. Franck).Some analogies between adaptive search strategies am$ psychologicalbehaviour IG.
Engstrom).
Language acquisition as the acquisition.
ofspeech act competence IH.
Ramge).
Reviews.no.
3Pragmatique et rhhtorique discursive (W. Settekorn).
How, to under-stsnd misunderstanding : 'Towards a linguistic explanation of under.standing ID.
Zeefferer).
Towards a theory of pragmatics IH.
6iml.The concept of function in recent Soviet linguistics (E  Pssierbskyi.Reviews.no.
4On soalled "rhetorical" questions IJ.
Schmidt-RadefeItI.
On theconcept of communicative competence: some consequences forthe teaching of language (K. Sornigl Some refnarks-on "explanation"in recent sociolir)guistic work IN.
Dittmar).
The formation d roleK.
mpt.
Unbrsk i  of Malburg,W.
GermanyV.
Ehrich, Univedty of DiicweMdn,G e m n yP.
Elsenberg, Twhnicsl University,Hannover, W. GmanyC.
Rllmorb, University of California,Berkeley, U S.A.D.
Franck, Unlversjty of Niimegen,The NetheriandsTL GlvCn, University of California,Los qngeles, U S A.K.
Gloy, Un~versh fyf Du~sbu~,W GermanyN.
Goldman, University of SouthernCakfornia, U S.A.F Grsgersen, Untversity of copenhagen,DenmarkD.G.
Hsyr, State Unnrersrty of New Yorkat Buffalo, U S.A.M A K. Halliday, Universw of Sydney,AustrallaR.
Hesen.
Macquarie University,North Ryde, N,S W., AustrallaG.
Hubers.
Un1venit-y of Amsterdam,The NetherlandsD.
H ymes, Unlverslty of Perimylvania,Philadelph~a, U.S AA.
Kasher, Bar llan University, Tel Aviv,IkraelG.
la koff.
Unlverstty bf Califoma,Berkeley, U S A ,A. Malikoutj-Drachman.
Un~vrffs~ty ofSalrburg, AustriaC Montgomery, Operat~ng Systems,Inc ,Woodland Hills, Cahfornia, U.S.AU Quasthoff, Free University,W.
Berl~nR.
Sohank, Yale Unlvetslty, New Haven,Connect~cut, U S AK Sornig, Unnrenlty of Graz,AustrieT.
Suzuki, Keio Univers~ty, Tokyo,JapanM.3.
White.
Univers~ty of Ghent,BelgrumY Wilks, Un~verslty of Read~ng,North-Holland Publishing CompanyP.O.
Box 21 1 - AmStetdam - The Netherlands-concepts in texts: The concept "Mother" in German schoolbooks(1.
Kumrnerj.
an the distinction between presuppositions and conler-sational implications ITh.
Kotschil.
Reviews,EnglandD.
Wu nded ich, n,VBmw of D..s981 dad,W.
GermanyAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics Micmfi~he 6 3  : 70AUTOMATIQUEINFORMATlQlJEMATHEMATIOUES APPLIQUCESRECHERCHE OPERATIONNELLEDIVISION ~ ~ I E O R I E  T TECHNIQUE DE L' INFORNATIQUBPRESENTATION DES ACTXVITES DU GROUPB DE TRAVAIL"Analyse et Expgrimentatian dans les Sciences de 1'Houme8 par l e s  MGthodes informatiques"t .
r,I NFORMAT IQUE I EITERACTIVE ET SC I ENCES DE L' HOMEFSYSTEMES-ET LANGAGES JNTERACTIFSCOMME ELEMENTS CONCEPTUELS DANSL' ELABORATION D ' UNE D ~ A R C H E  EXPER INENTALE,EN SCIENCES HUMAINESLe d6velappement rapide des mgthodes et techhiques interactives e tl'utilisation croissante de systemes et/ou de langages interactifs dans des d6-marches exp6rimentales dans les sciences humnines ont conduit le groupe de travailde 1 ' A .
P .
C .
E .
T .
"Analyse et exp8rime1nfation dans les sciences de l'homme per iesm6thodes informatiques"ii otganiser ses nct iv i tGs ,  pour c e t t e  ann$e, autour duthEme gkngral "Infonnatique interactive et qciences de l'honme".
L'ktude appro-fondie de certains aspects de ce thgme contribuera ii Eclairer un ensemblz dequestions li6es 5 l'introduction de ces h16thodes dans les disciplines des sciencesde l'homme.
Cette riSflexion permettra, sans nu1 doute ,  de  faire @merger des axesde recherche dont les objectifs correspondent 2 ceux que l e  groupe s'est fix6lors d e  sa cr fa t ion ,  il y a maintenant plus dvun an.Des travaux technologiques importants ont abouti 3 la conception d'or-ganes d'entr6e-sortie t rSs  sophistiqugs - t g l g t y p e s ,  affichage visuel alphanume-rique, graphique, claviers spGciaux, photosryles, etc, - appropri6s au dialoguehome-machine.
Parallalement 2 leur rdalisatibn, de nombreux logiciels interactifs-systzmes, langages, procgdures orientGes, etc.
- ont tit6 dGveloppds, implkment6s,et re ldus  op6rationnels.
L'expgrience montre que de tels dispositifs - ordinateurs,interfaces, logiciels - ant E t G  utilis6s pour contribuer 5 rgsoudre une largevariEt& de problBmes dans on nombre trgs  divers de disciplines.
Des 6tudes sur lesdiffgrents modes dlinteraction impliqugs par ces travaux ont port6 essentiellernentsur l e s  aspects techniques des l i a i sons ,  sur ceux des systsmes et de la communi-cation et enfin stlr le comportemc~t psychologiqutr d e s  utilisateurs.
Nearnoinsles modalitgs d'insertion d e  te l les  machines, t a n t  du point d e  vue m~thodologiqueque du point de vue technique, dans des d i s p o s i t i f s  exp6rimentaux nlone que rare-ment fafc l'objet de recherche sp6cifique e t  approfand ie .
L'unc d e s  raisons essen-tielles de cette lacune rt5si.de dans l e  fait que ce type  de  reflexion se situe ala frontiere des mEthodes de l'informatique interacti;e et de celle du darnaine quiles utilise.La complexit6 de la structure d e s  donnges et des traitements B operer -analyse e t  statut des  donnEes par  rapport 3 certains objectifs, formulation d'hy-pothsses, dgterminatton de mod2les, Gvaluations et validations des resultats, etc.- dans le domaine des sciences de llhomme pose de manikre plus aigue le problsmede l'insertion et de  l'utilisation des m6thodes et techniques interactives dansla conduite dtexpiSriences.
L'examen des questions liges a c e t t e  introductiondevraitconduire 2 dggager des th2mes de riiflexion sur la contribution mEthodolo-gique de ces 6lGments dans la conception et ltblaboration de toute experience,ainsi que sur les modifications 6ventuelles que ces methodes peuvent apporterdans le dgroulement du pr'acessus experimental.L'inventaire xaisonng des possibilitBs conceptuelles offerts par les methodesinteractives e t  leur intggration logique dans tout dispositif expihimental fon-dent le programme des activitgs du groupe de travail qui sera en consi?iquencescentre sur le sujet suivant !
Sys~Srnes e?
$angages interactifs come 614pentsconceptuels dans 1 '&laboration d t  une dGma,rche expkrithentalC dans les .sciences-de 1 'home".PROGRAMME DES SESSIONSCe programme ss dQcornpose en 4 sessions.I /  La premisxe sera consacr6e B lt6tude comparative de deux dispositifsinteractifs en relation avec la conception architecturale (Vendredi 1 1  F6vrie1-1977).2/ La probl6matique de l'insertion des mgthodes interactives dans undispositif expsrimental en sciences humaines fera l'objet de la deuxiGme session,qui durera 2 journQes, les, 17 e t  I8 Mars 1977.3/ La troisihe portera sur l'dtude du d6veloppement des mgthodes inter-actives en sciences humaines (juin 19775.4/ Enfin la q u a t r i b e  session fera la synthsse.
cle ces travaux dans lecadre d'un atelier organisg parallslement au dtiroulement du congrgs de ~'A.F.C.E.T.
"~od6lisation et ~a i t r i s e  des ~ystZmes" qui se tiendra ii Versailles les 22-23-24Novembre 1 9 7 7 ,Les Animateurs : E. CHOURAQUIJ.
VIRBELxx Pour tout renseignement ou prise d e  contact concernant le groupe de travailet le programme de l'annge 1977, stadresse,r B : E. CHOURAQUI ou J. VIRBELC,N*R.S,-L*T*S*H*31, Chemin Joseph Aiguier13274 MARSEILLE C6dex 2Tg1, (91) 75.90.42,AUTQMATKlUEINFORMATIQUEMATHEMATIQ~)ES APPLIQUEESRECHERCHE QP~RATIONNELLEQIVISION TTI"Analyse e t  Expsrimentatian dane' les Sciences de l'l'lomepar les Mgthodes iaf ormatiques"Animateurs : ED CHOURAQU'I, J. VIRBELC.NmR.S.-LmImSeB*31, Chemin Josspfr AiguQer13274 MARSEILLE C6dex 2T;EME DES ACTIVITES : "Inf oxmatique interactive et sciences de 1 'home"Sys tSmes e t langages interactif s comma &f&nents con-ceptuels dans 1' Blaboration d'une d6marche expBrimen-tale dana les sciences de llhome.SESSION 1DATE : Vendredi 11 FBvrier 1977 3 10 Hedres (toute l a  jouraecr)-LIEU ; Ecole d1Atchitectwe de Marseille~Luminy-Sal le  de Confgrence du GAMSAUTITRE : Pri5sentation e t  Comparaison des objectifs et des hypothsaes d'ut i l i sat ion-dlARLANG et  de TROPICINTERVENAN_TS : M, LATOMBE, ENSEGP (Grenoble)MK.
AUTRAN, FREGIER, RODRTWEZ,, ZQLLER, G W A U  (Mar se i  1 le-Luminy )msum t-L'idOe essentielle du Systsme TROPIC est de pernettre au concepteurde d6crire un probl&me en termes principalement d6claratifs pour obtenir unesolution produite automatiquement par le systsme.
Celui-ci e s t  suffisammentggn6ral pour pennettre de travailler dans des disciplines diff6rentes.
11 maten oeuvre des techniques d'htelligenca Artificielle dont les Blhents les plurinteressants sonr : la reprgsentation des connaissances entitem, un rn6canfsmede si5lection des connaissances utiles, l'application d'une strategic descendants,la collaboration de deux programmes de r6solution de probli3mes, une techniquede retour (backtrack) iSvolu6e et une proc6dure d'apprentissage.Le but du langage A R L ~ J G  est de fournir aux concepteurs de l'amgnage-ment un odtil de description des donn6es et de recherche de solutions B leursproblsmes par des proc6dures interactives compatibles avec leur prafique ouentra?n&nt d e s  modifications acceptables de leur dharche.Le concepteur d6cri.t les donnses sous fsrize dTarborescence de descriprt ion munie d'opgrateurs "et" et "ou".La recherche de solutions sqeffectue pax 1'6critul"e de blocs de pro-grammes permettant' :- de tgaliser des algorithmes de traitement des donnges decrites- de spgcifier la ssmantique opkratoire de relations descriptives- d'obtenir des donnses dynarniques dgcrites potentiellement et ggngrgespar algorithmes .Ces diffgrentes actions autorisent la crktian et l'enrichissementd'une base donnges, 3 chaque modification correspond alors un 6tat de la basequi peut Stre conserd s'il est jugs pertinent par le concepteur.
ensembledes Etata conserv6s constitue la trace du processus de conception.American Journal of Computationd Linguistics Microfiche 63 .- 75From The Linguistic Reporter, A n e w s l e t t e r  i n  appliedl i n g u i s t i c s ,  Pubdished by the Center for  AppliedLfnguPst ics ,  1611 North Kent S t r e e t ,  Ar l ing ton ,Virginia 22209.
Volume 1 9 ,  Number 4,  January 1977, 3 .Stanford Phondogy ArchiveInvYtes Retrieval RequestsThe Stanford Phonology Archive is an NSF-sponsored In stop systems with a voicing contrast, whichrofect whose goal is to compile a corn uter-accessi- segments are more frequently missing from a cam-[ l a  file of phonelic and phonologicaf lnf orma tion plete p hone p i c  paradigm?based on an areally and gentically balanced sample What is the most common environment for theof 200 languages [including the 11 most widely spoken voicing of voiceless obstruants; for the spirantiza-languages in the world).
Operationally, the Archive tion of stops, for shifts in point of articulation; forstaff encodes, and computerizes informa tion vowel backing or fronting, for nasalization?found in ~ub'is'ed ~honelic ""0' ~ho'ological sewices are currently performed free descriptions* so data "om different languages can of upon request.
The Archive staff, however,be accurately and meaningfull~ com~ared.
The ~ r o j -  places the following limltalions bn its capacitiks:ect, which began in 1971, is currently in its final corn- since they are in the process of refining and aval- pilation and formalization stages, uating material, some of the information in the Ar- One of the Archive's major functions is to pmvide is Still in 121 Archivea information service lo  members Of no syntactic,elexical, or textual data for any language; linguisttc communit~.
Some of the which (3) the ArC:..re is synchronic; (4) althoughcompose the Archive's data base.
include: specific ,,st correspondence2 ls qnswered as i t  is received,phonetic segments and/or ~~~~~~~g~~~~ Processes there may be occasional delays in processing,'lasses of segments Or P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ) ~  Ihe Or The specific fields of data available for searchingareal distribution of segments or processes; systemsof phonemic contrasts for classes of segments [such as me described in greater detail in a publication en-tones, nasal consonants, oral vowels), patterns of seg- titled A Reference Mc~nual and user's Guide for thement alternations (allophonic or morphophonemic), Stanford Phonology Archive** Copies are availablethe effects of specific segments in proximate for $5 00 from Dept of Ling.
~tanford U.
~tanfordtioning environments; phonotactic constraints in vari- CA 94305ous word and syllable positions; descriptions of stress-accent systma or syllable structure.Extensive use has been made of the Archive's database, and some sample requests submitted and an-swered include:*Are assimilat~on rules primarily preservatory(progressive) or anticipatory (regressive)?What are the phonotactic constraints on wordand syllable-ini tial consonants?
*How is the distribution of front rounded vowelslimited areally?Does every Ian uage which has rising tones alsohave at least one fa1 f ing tone?Do nasalized vowels tend to be more mid inheight than corresponding oral vowels (i.e., loweredif high, raised if non-high)?
