Characterizing Indirect Speech Acts 1Gretchen P. BrownComputer Corporation of America575 Technology SquareCambridge, Massachusetts 02139This paper presents the core of a descriptive theory of indirect speech acts, i.e.utterances in which one speech act form is used to realize another, different, speech act.The proposed characterization of indirect speech acts is based on principles of goalformation, viewed in the context of a general structural model of action.
The model ofaction is used to develop rules that characterize a large number of indirect speech actforms.
Computational implications of the theory are discussed.1.
IntroductionIn recent years, a considerable amount of attentionhas been devoted to the topic of indirect speech acts,i.e.
utterances in which one speech act form is used torealize another, different, speech act.
A simple exam-ple of an indirect speech act is the question form 1.1uttered with the intent to convey a request o close thedoor.1.1 Can you close the door?Despite the volume of work that has been done onindirect speech acts, fundamental questions remainunanswered.
We still lack a complete answer to eventhe basic question of what forms can realize a givenspeech act.
Two properties of the problem have madethe search for a complete theory of indirect formsparticularly difficult:1 .
.Sheer  numbers: There are a considerablenumber of different speech acts, and manyhave a wide selection of possible indirect re-alizations.
A theory must be quite general totake these into account.2.
Variety: Indirect speech act forms range fromhighly conventionalized to apparently freeforms.
It appears that no single, simple setof generalizations can adequately capture thecomplexity of indirect speech acts.1 The research for this paper was carried out while the authorwas on the staff of the Laboratory for Computer  Science at theMassachusetts  Institute of Technology.
The research was supportedby the Advanced Research Projects Agency of the Department ofDefense and was monitored by the Office of Naval Research underContract Number  N00014-75-C-0661.It is the claim of this paper that previous inv~estigationsof indirect speech acts (abbreviated ISAs 2) have beenhampered by inadequate semantic theories.
This studytakes as primary the central tenet of speech act theorythat language is action (Austin \[2\]) and brings to bearsome of the perspectives on the representation of ac-tions developed in the course of Artificial Intelligenceresearch.
Accordingly, principles of goal formationare discussed in the context of a general structuralmodel of action.
The model of action is used to devel-op rules that characterize a large number of indirectspeech act forms.The focus of this investigation is on the develop-ment of a descriptive theory of ISAs.
Accounting forthe diversity of ISAs is an important goal, but I seethe formulation of a solid and complete descriptivetheory as a necessary prerequisite to an explanatorytheory.
This is not to say that explanation can betotally decoupled from description, and, in fact, theuse of the general model of actions to derive ISAforms has significant explanatory potential.
To fullyaccount for differences in ISA forms, however, wemust have a good characterization of what these dif-ferences are.While the claims that will be made in this paperstop at a (partial) descriptive theory of ISAs, the un-derlying motivations do not.
Computational consider-ations have played a significant role in the develop-ment of the ISA categorization.
The work presentedhere grew out of the implementation effort reported in2 It is helpful to pronounce ISA as initials to avoid confusionwith IS-A, the name used commonly in the Artificial Intell igenceliterature for a hierarchical semantic relationship.Copyright 1980 by the Association for Computat ional  Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is grantedprovided that the copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the Journal reference and this copyright notice are included onthe first page.
To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or  specific permission.0362-613X/80/030150-17501.00150 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech Acts\[3\].
The actual behavior of the system was limited(internal manipulations for a twenty turn sample dia-logue), but the process model implemented was rela-tively sophisticated.
A further expanded and refinedversion of this model is presented in \[4\].In viewing the characterization f ISAs as a compu-tational problem, the central premise has been that thephenomenon of ISAs is too complex to admit to asingle uniform computational treatment.
The twostumbling blocks to a descriptive theory -- the numberand variety of ISA forms -- are doubly troubling whenthe theory is to have a computational application.Some means must be found to divide the class of ISAsinto subclasses which have their own specialized repre-sentations and processing strategies.
The developmentof the descriptive theory of ISAs presented has beenaffected in various ways, subtle and not so subtle, bythis computational hypothesis.
The proper level ofrepresentation of ISA rules has been of primary con-cern, as has the identification of classes of ISAs ac-cording to the complexity of their derivations.Section 2 introduces ome of the issues that havebeen raised about ISAs and Section 3 lays the ground-work for the approach taken here.
Section 4 thenpresents a set of general rules that handle a large num-ber of ISA forms.
The rules in that section are pro-posed as the core of a descriptive theory of ISAs.
Is-sues surrounding the application of the rules are ad-dressed in Section 5.
Finally, Section 6 discusses omeof the implications of the theory, with comparison torecent computational work.2.
Previous ApproachesTwo approaches to the characterization of indirectspeech acts have been particularly influential for bothcomputational nd traditional inguists: the views pro-posed by Gordon and Lakoff and by Searle.
Since therules presented in this paper combine properties ofeach approach, we start with a brief description ofeach.We consider first the approach taken by Gordonand Lakoff \[12\].
Concentrating primarily on request,Gordon and Lakoff propose a set of what they callsincerity conditions and then give a single powerfulrule to account for the different ways that a requestcan be framed.
They say that to make a sincererequest a speaker must, first, want the action done,second, believe that the hearer can do the action,third, believe that the hearer wants to do the action,and, fourth, believe that the hearer would not do theaction unless asked to.
The first of these sincerityconditions is called speaker-based and the remainingthree are called hearer-based.
The rule given is:One can convey a request by(a) asserting a speaker-based sincerity condition or(b) questioning a hearer-based sincerity condition.This formulation is attractive because it is so elegantand simple, but it is also, as the authors are the first toobserve, only a preliminary answer.
The conditionsassociated with request are incomplete, since they lackany mention of obligation relationships; these are dis-cussed below in Section 3.3.
More problematic is thelack of detailed guidelines for extending the theorybeyond requests.A second major approach to ISA regularities is thatof Searle.
Searle presents a more complete account ofISAs, proposing generalizations associated with thefive major classes of speech act defined in \[26\].
In\[25\] he lists four generalizations for directives and fiveothers for commissives.
The generalizations are differ-entiated according to the parts of the speech act iden-tified in \[24\], i.e.
propositional content conditions,sincerity conditions, and preparatory conditions.
(Gordon and Lakoff 's sincerity conditions, in contrast,seem to be an amalgam of Searle's sincerity and pre-paratory conditions.
)Searle's contribution is a valuable one, in that hehas succeeded in accounting for a broad range ofspeech acts.
At the same time, Searle's generalizationscan be questioned on the count that they are too spe-cific.
Generalizations are stated in terms of types ofpreparatory conditions, rather than in terms of prepar-atory conditions as a whole.
A more serious problemis the relegation of the notion of speaker- and hearer-based conditions to an informal role, as opposed togiving it an explicit place in the theory.The theory proposed in this paper is both a synthe-sis and a generalization of the two approaches.
Ratherthan derive ISA forms from a single set of conditionsassociated with the speech act, as do Gordon aild La-koff, I follow Searle in looking for important classes ofISA forms based on different parts of the speech act.The theory presented goes a step further, however,looking beyond the structure of individual speech actsto derive ISA forms from very general principles ofgoal formation.3.
Prel iminariesWe first introduce the model of actions on whichthe ISA rules will be based, and Section 3.2 looks atspeech acts from the perspective of this model.
Sec-tion 3.3 then discusses the request speech act as a basisfor examples used throughout the paper.3.1.
An Outl ine of the Structure of Act ionsI f  we are to follow Austin and Searle in the beliefthat language is, fundamentally, action, then linguisticmodels must include a model of the structure of ac-tions.
Such a model of actions can be a unifying forceAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980 151Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech Actswithin the larger model, since structural informationcan be used in a number of different ways.
This sub-section gives a very general treatment of actions, justenough to support the ISA rules proposed.
The ac-count of actions is taken from the OWL-I representa-tion scheme (Szolovits et al \[27\] and Brown \[3,6\]), 3and it has counterparts in work by Bruce \[7\], Schankand Abelson \[23\], Grosz \[14\], and Moore, Levin, andMann \[18,19\].
Some of these approaches differ in thetype of action modelled, and all of them differ in thedetails, but each of the approaches is open to thetreatment of action representations a general knowl-edge.
Thus, action representations are not merelyprograms for doing something, they are also knowledgestructures that may be used by other processes.We start with the notion of a method, a representa-tion of an action.
Methods have three main parts: aheader, argument specifications, and a proceduralbody.
The header is the method's unique name.
Argu-ment specifications, organized by semantic cases, areused for type checking of inputs to the method (inputcases) or to specify the form of results (output cases).The procedural body is divided into two parts:(optional) prerequisites and procedure steps.Note that input cases are associated with methods,not surface English verbs.
Input case specificationsgive constraints on the participants in the method, thematerials used, objects manipulated, etc.
(A suggestedset of semantic input cases derived by William A. Mar-tin can be found in \[4\].)
An important ype of inputcase constraint, the precondition, is discussed in thenext subsection.Besides input case specifications, we said that me-thods may have associated output case specifications,i.e.
specifications of results.
One important notionhere is that of principal result, which is the main resultof the method and, typically, the reason that the me-thod is undertaken.
For example, the action conveyedin "Paint the block red" has as principal result that theblock is red.
The paint brush may also end up red,but this is not the principal result.Turning to the method's procedural body, we needto know that procedure steps may correspond to sub-actions, i.e.
they may be used as calls to other me-thods.
Beyond this, procedure steps have a good dealof interesting structure, discussion of which is notnecessary for the purposes of this paper.As for prerequisites, the ones that are of interesthere are states.
A stative prerequisite of an action is acondition that must obtain before that action is carriedout.
If the condition does not hold, then one must30WL- I  was developed by William A. Martin, Lowell Haw-kinson, William Long, Alexander Sunguroff, William Swartout,Peter Szolovits, and the author.
OWL has continued to developsince that time.bring it about before carrying out the action.
An ex-ample of a prerequisite is the requirement that an ele-mentary course of study be completed before a moreadvanced one is undertaken.3.2.
The Model of Actions Applied to Speech ActsSpeech acts, because they are actions, can be repre-sented by methods.
Speech act representations there-fore have semantic input cases, which typically includecases for the participants in the conversation and acase for what Searle calls the propositional contentcondition of the speech act (very roughly, what thespeech act is "about")  \[24\].
Among the constraintson these input cases are preconditions.
Preconditionsare constraints on the beliefs, desires, or other inten-tions of the agent of the method (the participant re-sponsible for the action) that should be satisfied be-fore the speech act gets underway.
Preconditionsdiffer from prerequisites in that a failure to satisfypreconditions typically means that a method is elimi-nated from consideration as a possible plan; a prere-quisite that is not satisfied merely adds extra steps tobe performed.
Preconditions will play an importantrole in the framing of ISAs; a sample set is given inthe next subsection.A concept hat will be useful in talking about ISAsis the intended effect.
The intended effects of speechacts are those effects that P1 (the agent of the speechact) intends to have on P2.
The most important ofthese effects will be called the principal intended effect.For request, the principal intended effect is that P2take responsibility for carrying out some action.
Foroffer, it is that P2 accept the offer.
"Accept" hereincludes not only a verbal acceptance, but also that P2perform some action that complements P l ' s  offer, e.g.,P2 takes food that is offered.
The notion of intendedeffect comes from Verschueren \[28\], but it has beenadapted somewhat.
In particular, for uniformity, in-tended effects will be restricted to be actions only, notstates.
For example, the principal intended effect forstate is that P2 come to know (as opposed to just know)that P1 believes omething to be a fact.Intended effects and principal intended effects canbe related in a straightforward way to methods.
In-tended effects are actions precipitating certain methodresults (i.e.
intended effects are the direct causes);principal intended effects are actions precipitatingcertain principal results.
The results and principalresults are not necessarily associated with the speechact method but are instead associated with higher levelmethods that include both the speech act and its pro-totypical inguistic and nonlinguistic responses.Once speech acts have been set within the actionrepresentation, we can define ISAs more closely todelimit the phenomena of interest.
Speech acts con-veyed by ISA forms are derivable from parts of, or152 American Journal  of  Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, Ju ly -December 1980Gretchen P. Brown Characl:erizing Indirect Speech Actsconditions associated with, the conveyed speech act(s).Other implications of an utterance may arise from aparticular co-occurrence of steps within larger patternsof dialogue, but these implications will not be consid-ered to be conveyed speech acts.
A very simple exam-ple of such an implication comes from a computerconsole session environment, where some users type"Thank you" in a place where others type "Thankyou" followed by "Good-bye".
When "Thank you"occurs alone in such a situation, it will not be consid-ered to be an indirect closing.
Instead, the closing isseen as an optional step, which may be omitted in thepresence of utterances that uniquely identify the placein the dialogue.
Utterances that imply omitted stepsdo so based on relationships at a higher level of dia-logue structure than individual speech acts.3.3.
Precondit ions for RequestsAlthough the rules presented in the next section areintended to apply to speech acts in general, exampleswill be drawn primarily from request forms.
Since theISA rules depend in part on the preconditions of aspeech act, the preconditions of the speech act requestare discussed here; preconditions for ask, state, offer,and suggest appear in the Appendix.
4 In these precon-ditions and throughout the paper, P1 is the originatorof the utterance (or written message) and P2 is thereceiver.
If subsequent related utterances are dis-cussed, then P1 and P2 continue to refer to the sameparticipants.
Consider, then, the following precondi-tions for request:I. P1 wants P2 to take responsibility for car-rying out the action.II.
P1 believes that P2 can take responsibilityfor carrying out the action.III.
P1 believes that P2 is willing to take respon-sibility for carrying out the action.IV.
P1 believes that P2 is obligated to P1 (andpossibly to others) to take responsibility forcarrying out the action.To clarify the terms used in the preconditions, Iwill outline some of the relationships that should becaptured in a semantic network representation ofthem.The internal semantic node believe has a superclassrelationship to semantic nodes for idea-holding con-cepts, e.g., thinking, knowing, assuming, and hypothes-izing.
The different specializations (i.e.
subclasses) ofbelieve differ according to the strength of commitmentto the belief.
In addition, they differ according to4 In the interests of readability, preconditions and ISA rulesare presented in this paper informally.
The model of actions andrules have been represented in OWL-I ,  which implies a number ofcommitments,  many shared by other representation schemes of thelate seventies.
These commitments are discussed further in Sect.
5.whether the belief is open to confirmation againstsome external reality (i.e., facts), will eventually beopen to confirmation (i.e., guesses and predictions), oris generally considered to be a matter of taste (i.e.,opinions).
The link between the various specializa-tions of believe is the fact that beliefs can be partiallysupported by evidence, whether or not complete con-firmation of the beliefs is ultimately possible.
Thisexcludes idea-holding actions such as dreaming.In precondition I, the internal node want has a su-perclass relationship to semantic nodes for all goal-holding concepts, e.g., desiring and hoping.
"Takeresponsibility" is used in the preconditions to permitsubcontracting.
Whether P2 does all the action stepsor not, P2 still remains responsible to P1 for the re-suits.In precondition II, "can" is meant to convey thegeneral notion of enablement for actions.
One spe-cialization of the semantic node can is may, enable-ment through permission.
The internal representationfor "can" is discussed further in Section 5.In the third precondition, the internal node for "bewilling" has a superclass in common with want(perhaps called "be inclined") but it differs in that ifP2 is willing to do action A1, he or she is not disin-clined to do it.
That is to say, P2 does not necessarilyhave A1 as a goal, but P2 has no conflicting goalswhich, when weighed against A1, result in a decisionagainst adopting A1 as a goal.
Precondition III isworded "P2 is willing to" rather than "P2 wants to,"because P2 will not necessarily already have the actionrequested as a goal at the time that P1 makes therequest.Finally, we come to the notion of obligation inprecondition IV.
The concept of obligation assumed isa more specific version of the generalized obligationthat Labov and Fanshel use for requests in \[16\].
Obli-gation to other people is seen here as coming in threetypes: role obligation, authority obligation, and thegeneral obligation to be cooperative.
Role obligationsare associated with roles, which can be seen as pat-terns of behavior that can be assumed by individualsfor varying periods of time.
An example of a roleobligation would be the requirement that a bank tellerfulfill a request o make change.
Authority obligationsare slightly more difficult to identify, since, especiallyin contemporary American society, most authorityarises from roles.
Authority obligations based on agedifferences are probably the most prevalent examples.The third type of obligation, the general obligation tobe cooperative, seems to arise simply from a need,often in the form of a temporary inequality betweenindividuals.
The obligation applies in a range of situa-tions.
A typically mundane version of the obligation isthat questions should be answered, i.e.
that inequali-ties of knowledge should be corrected.
A more seriousAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980 153Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech Actsversion is the injunction to help someone in an emer-gency.
Note that this obligation is not absolute (norare role or authority obligations), and it may be over-ridden by other obligations.
A point worth mentioningis that my notion of obligation includes the notion ofP l ' s  right to invoke the obligation.
(See \[16\], p.
78.
)An obligation is seen as a three-place relationshipbetween P1, P2, and the thing that P2 is obliged to do.Note that the specific persons P1 and P2 need not benamed explicitly in the obligation.
For example, theobligation to drive carefully may be an obligation tosociety in general, and hence to any individual P1 byinclusion in the larger set.
Given this formulation, P1has the right to invoke the obligation to drive carefullybecause P1 is one of the parties to the obligation, evenif P1 is not named explicitly.5Philosophical controversy surrounds several ofthese terms, and a complete and detailed definition forany of them is a research project in itself.
The com-ments on the terms used in the preconditions aresketchy, but the intent of the comments is to give thereader enough information to evaluate the approach toISA characterization proposed in this paper.4.
A Set of General Rules for Indirect Speech ActsIf one looks carefully at a varied group of indirectspeech acts, an outline of a common sense view ofrational behavior begins to emerge.
This commonsense view can be used as a conceptual organization ofISA forms, an approach taken here in the presentationof a set of general rules for ISAs.4.1.
Some Basic Observat ionsWe start with some very basic observations, noneof which should seem particularly remarkable since thephenomena involved lie just below the surface, andsometimes right at the surface, of English (and otherlanguages as well).Strategy 1.
If you believe that a propositionholds, you can tell someone.Strategy 2.
If you want to know whether aproposition holds, you can ask someone if itholds.Strategy 3.
If you want to know whether aproposition holds, you can ask someone if itdoes not hold.These three communication strategies are extensionsof the observations made by Searle and built into Gor-don and Lakoff 's rule for requests.
"Can"  is usedabove to indicate that other options do, of course,exist; these are merely the options of interest for ISAs.5 Reminders are one class of utterance in which P1 does havethe right to invoke an obligation without being a party to it.
This isnot necessari ly a problem for requests, however, because reminderscan be treated as separate speech acts.The three strategies can be augmented by what will becalled here the better-knowledge principle: if both youand a conversational partner have a degree of knowl-edge about a proposition, the decision whether to tellwhat you know (or think) or ask what the other per-son knows (or thinks) can be made based on whichparticipant has the better knowledge of the proposi-tion.Moving from information exchanges to actions ingeneral, we can identify some basic factors in theprocess of undertaking an action (i.e.
adopting theaction as a goal, not necessarily with the intent ofbeing the agent yourself).1.
One should only undertake actions that arenecessary.2.
One should only undertake actions for whichsome desirable result or results can be ex-pected.3.
One should only undertake actions that oneexpects to be possible.These three maxims, which will be referred to as themaxims of Necessity, Desirability, and Possibility,summarize factors that should be weighed in goal for-mation, the process of deciding to adopt some actionas a goal.
Necessity, desirability, and possibility ofactions are not necessarily, of course, evaluated inde-pendently, but the maxims abstract away from theactual weighing procedure.
Interpretation of thesemaxims is intended to be quite broad.
"Necessity" isassumed here to include obligations, and "possibility"is assumed to include having permission.Readers familiar with the classic work of Grice onconversational implicature \[13\] will recognize the ap-proach that is being taken.
Grice suggests four cate-gories of maxims that are applicable to linguistic ac-tions but which have analogues in other types of ac-tions.
The maxims given here are applicable to actionsin general but apply to speech acts as a special case.The Maxim of Necessity above has a partial counter-part in Grice's category of Quantity.
The other twomaxims have no direct counterparts, and they suggestextensions to Grice's framework.Given these basic observations about communica-tion and action in general, the question is how theyshould be incorporated into a theory.
One possibleapproach is to represent the observations at essentiallythe level of generality given, then derive ISA forms bya uniform inference process.
Here, in contrast, theobservations will be used as a conceptual organizationand as a guide to rule specification.
The resultingrules will be more specialized, but they will be at alevel closer to the ISA forms that they describe.The motivation for the choice of this approach canbetter be described after the rules have been present-ed.
Accordingly, the rest of this section discusses154 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech Actsrules associated with the maxims of Necessity, Desira-bility, and Possibility.4.2.
Rules Related to the Max im of NecessityThe Maxim of Necessity says that one should actonly when necessary, avoiding extraneous actions.The following rules account for speech act forms relat-ed to this maxim:P1 can convey a speech act indirectly by --Rule NECESSARY-ASSERT-- asserting that the intended speech act is neces-sarye.g., the request "I have to ask you to shut thedoor.
"Rule NECESSARY-ASK-- ask ing whether the intended speech act is neces-sarye.g., the request "Do I need to ask you to shutthe door?
"Rule EQUI-ASK-- ask ing  whether an equivalent speech act (i.e.,one with the same principal intended effect) hasalready been performede.g., the request "Did anyone ask you to takeout the garbage?
"Rule FUTURE-EFFECT-ASK-- ask ing  whether the principal intended effect canbe expected to occur without the speech acte.g., the requests:"Are you planning to take out the garbage?
""Are you going to take out the garbage?
"Rule PAST-EFFECT-ASK-- ask ing  whether the principal intended effect ofthe speech act has already occurrede.g., the requests:"Did you take out the garbage?
""Have you taken out the garbage?
"and, using additional rules (see Section 5),"Is the garbage out?
""Assert" is used in these and subsequent rules to in-elude the speech acts of stating a fact and giving anopinion, i.e., those speech acts that Searle calls repre-sentatives \[26\].The "necessity" rules exemplify the three commu-nication strategies listed at the beginning of this sec-tion.
NECESSARY-ASSERT exemplifies the firststrategy, in which P1 tells what he or she knows aboutthe necessity of the speech act.
In NECESSARY-ASK, P1 asks whether the speech act is necessary(strategy 2), and in the last three rules, P1 askswhether the speech act is unnecessary (strategy 3).Note that there is no rule for the explicit version ofthe third strategy, e.g.
for the form "Is it unnecessaryfor me to <speech act>?"
This form is practicallyincomprehensible as a way to carry out the speech act,even though the reasoning involved is comparable tothat for the EQUI-ASK form.
Perhaps this gap re-fleets a preference for more specialized forms.
Thethree strategy-3 rules for necessity, which are morespecific, supersede the explicit "Is it unnecessary..."form.Gordon and Lakoff  use a condition analogous tothe FUTURE-EFFECT-ASK rule to account for the"Will you <act ion>?"
request form.
In this interpre-tation, the form asks if the request is unnecessary be-cause P2 was going to perform the desired action any-way.
While this approach is plausible on the face ofit, some uses of the "will" form are not motivated byquestions of the necessity of the action.
Consider, forexample, 4.1:4.1 Will you accept a ride to the airport?One can view example 4.1 as P1 asking P2 whetherthe outcome of an of fer  by P1 will be successful (i.e.,acceptance).
This example can therefore be accountedfor by the Maxim of Possibility; "will" forms are dis-cussed further in Section 4.4.Finally, note that P1 is permitted to use an ISAonly when P1 can reasonably expect P2 to decipherP l ' s  intent, i.e., to recognize the indirection.
Neitherthe "necessity" rules nor any of the other rules to bepresented here, however, include this information.
Itappears that this constraint is part of a more generalconstraint hat P1 avoid ambiguity.
That is, P1 isobligated -- to the best of his or her ability -- to frameany utterance (ISA or not) in such a way that P2 canunderstand the message that P1 intended to convey.See Grice \[13\] for discussion of an "avoid ambiguity"maxim.4.3.
Rules Related to the Max im of Desirabil ityNext we come to the Maxim of Desirability, whichsays that one should initiate actions for which somedesirable result or results can be expected and avoidactions for which an undesirable result or results canbe expected.
Related to this maxim, we have the fol-lowing ISA rules:P1 can convey a speech act indirectly by --Rule DESIRABLE-ASSERT-- asserting that some desirable result or results canbe expected or some undesirable result or resultscan be avoided for some intended effect of thespeech act.e.g., the request "I'11 be happier when you sub-stantiate those figures.
"Here, the desirable result is the happiness of P1,and the intended effect of the request is that P2substantiate the figures.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980 155Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech ActsRule DESIRABLE-ASK-- asking whether some desirable result or resultscan be expected or whether some undesirable resultor results can be avoided for some intended effectof the speech act.e.g., the request "Will more light come in if youmove it a little to the right?
"Rule UNDESIRABLE-ASK-- asking whether some undesirable result or resultscan be expected from the intended speech act.e.g., the request "Will you be offended if I askyou to loan me some money?
"For the first two rules, note that the intended ef-fect need not be an immediate result of the speech act;it may be several times removed in the causal chain.Similarly, the desirable result need not be an immedi-ate result of the intended effect.The "desirabil ity" rules exemplify the three linguis-tic strategies listed at the beginning of this section.Again, as for the strategy-3 "necessity" rules,DESIRABLE-ASSERT and DESIRABLE-ASK do notinclude the most general possible forms.
For example,no rule has been given to permit example 4.2 to beinterpreted as an indirect request hat P2 be quiet.4.2 I will be happier if I ask you to be quiet.Whereas DESIRABLE-ASSERT is framed in terms ofan intended effect of the speech act, example 4.2 ref-ers to the speech act explicitly.
The same hypothesisapplies for this gap: the more specializedDESIRABLE-ASSERT has displaced the explicit, andmore general, form exemplified by 4.2.4.4.
Rules Related to the Max im of Possibi l ityThe third maxim proposed was the Maxim of Possi-bility: one should only initiate actions that one expectsto be possible.
This means that a speech act shouldonly be initiated when:1.
P1 has the appropriate authority or permis-sion for the speech act; and2.
it appears likely that the specific precondi-tions associated with the action's methodcan be satisfied.Only the second case, preconditions, will be consid-ered here.
The ISA forms derived from the first caseall seem to belong to a class that Fraser has calledhedged performatives, and which are well accounted forin \[11\].The approach taken for ISAs based on precondi-tions will be to distinguish three classes of precondi-tion and formulate six rules using the classes distin-guished.
The classes will be based on the better-knowledge principle from the beginning of this section,specialized in terms of preconditions.
The classes ofprecondition are as follows:1.
P l -based preconditionsHere P1 has inherently better knowledge ofwhether or not the topic of the precondit ionholds.
The topic of precondit ions that beginhere with "P1 believes that P2" is considered tobe the direct object of the initial "believe," i.e.,the rest of the precondition.
For other precon-ditions, the topic is the entire pattern.
Precondi-tions that are P l -based  represent intentionalstates of P1, i.e., beliefs, intentions, wants, de-sires, and degrees of willingness.
An example isrequest I, P1 wants P2 to take responsibility forcarrying out the action.2.
P2-based preconditionsHere P2 has inherently better knowledge ofwhether or not the topic of the precondit ionholds.
Preconditions that fit this category in-clude P l ' s  beliefs about P2's intentional states.
6An example of a P2-based precondit ion isrequest III, P1 believes that P2 is willing to takeresponsibility for carrying out the action.3.
Unmarked preconditionsFor these preconditions, determination of whichparticipant has better knowledge of the precon-dition depends on properties of the context orits particular speech act.
Examples are requestII and IV.Using these precondit ion types, we can constructthe following six rules for ISA forms.P1 can convey a speech act indirectly by --Rule P1-ASSERT:-- asserting a P l -based  precondit ion of thespeech act; e.g.,"I want you to water the plants."
(request I)"I hope you will use common sense.
"(request I)Rule P2-ASK:-- an ask of the topic of a P2-based precondi-tion of the speech act.e.g., "Do you want to shut the door?
"(request I I I)Rule UNMARKED-ASK:-- an ask of the topic of an unmarked precondi-tion of the speech act.This rule applies in a context where P1 believesP2 has better knowledge of the condition in theprecondition topic.e.g., "Is it your turn to do the dishes?
"(request IV)6 An exception is the degree of knowledge of facts, which willbe classified as an Unmarked condition.
There are cases in whichP1 is assumed to have better knowledge about what P2 knows ordoes not know than P2.
Such an assumption underlies the use ofthe form "You don't  know <fact>"  as a way to state the fact.156 American Journal  of  Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, Ju ly -December 1980Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech ActsRule UNMARKED-ASSERT:-- asserting the topic of an unmarked precondi-tion of the speech act.This rule applies in a context where P1 believesP1 has better knowledge of the condition in theprecondition topic.e.g., " I t 's  your turn to do the dishes.
"(request IV)Rule COMPOSITE-REQUEST:-- a request form of an action that is a goal ofP1.This rule is applicable only when the speech acthas preconditions that are exact matches or spe-cializations of the four preconditions of request.e.g., "Take a cookie."
(offer IV-VI I ,  in Ap-pendix)Rule COMPOSITE-ASK:-- an ask about whether P2 will take responsi-bility for carrying out an action that is a goal ofP1.This rule is applicable only when the speech acthas preconditions that are exact matches or spe-cializations of the four preconditions of request.e.g., "Will you accept a ride to the airport?
"(offer IV-VI I ,  in Appendix)The rules as written do not account for differencesin tense and mood.
That is, the UNMARKED-ASKrule accounts for example 4.3 but not 4.4 and 4.5.4.3 Are you able to drive Sarah to school?4.4 Will you be able to drive Sarah to school?4.5 Would you be able to drive Sarah to school?Examples 4.4 and 4.5 can be handled as legitimaterequests if we extend the rules to account for a widerrange of tense and mood behavior.
See \[4\] for sugges-tions.The "possibil ity" rules given also do not derive"not" forms, i.e.
strategy-3 rules related to whether anaction is impossible.4.6 Shouldn't you shut the door?4.7 Can't  you shut the door?Note, however, that the rules given can be used aspatterns for producing rules that account for examples4.6 and 4.7.
Any of the rules above that involve anask have rule counterparts with not inserted after theask.
7In terms of specific rules, UNMARKED-ASSERTmay seem odd when applied to preconditions involving7 This is a change from \[4\], where the "not" forms were seenas realizations of a different speech act, with different precondi-tions.
The "not" forms are now seen as requests with a particularset of connotations.
The motive for the change is to make the"possibility" rules consistent with the rules for the maxims of Ne-cessity and Desirability by allowing the strategy of questioningwhether acondition does not hold.capability, producing indirect requests uch as example4.8.4.8 You can open the door.Such forms do occur, however, particularly in requeststo children where there may be some question of thechild's capability to perform the action requested.COMPOSITE-REQUEST and COMPOSITE-ASKdiffer most from rules in previous theories becausethey are based on groups of preconditions.
TheCOMPOSITE-ASK rule is of special interest.
InSearle's scheme, the very common "Will you<act ion>?"
form is derived from the proposit ionalcontent condition of directives (the class that includesrequest).
This approach seems to produce the correctforms, but it is basically a structural account, withoutstrong semantic motivation.
Instead, the approachtaken here is to appeal to the Maxim of Possibility.The appearance of the four request preconditions in aset of preconditions indicates an action that P1 wantsdone.
We can think of a speech act with this precon-dition subset as an act with a component request.
Byusing a "will" form to perform the speech act, e.g.
theoffer example 4.1, P1 is asking a question about howP2 will respond to the offer, i.e., whether the compo-nent request will have a satisfactory response.
Whenthe speech act is itself a request, then the question inthe "will" form is whether the speech act as a wholewill have a satisfactory response.The distinction between P l -based,  P2-based, andUnmarked preconditions is probably uncontroversial;the question is whether the categories hould be givena primary place in the theory.
The reason that thebetter-knowledge split has been given a central placeis that there is then a distinction between knowledgeabout a precondit ion that is independent of context(P1- and P2-based) and that which is not (Unmarked).Instead of deriving the invariant knowledge from firstprinciples each time, it is "precompiled" into the rules.This choice reflects an approach that will be discussedin Section 6.4.5.
The Scope of the RulesStarting with a general evaluation of the scope ofthe rules, note that they do not account for such phe-nomena as sarcasm, jokes, or failure to make standardchoices (e.g., P1 makes an utterance and has not de-cided whether it is a question or a request for a non-verbal action).
Another phenomenon specific tospeech acts that complicates theory building is whatcan be called force shift.
This occurs when one speechact form is used to "masquerade" as another.
Forexample, one may use a suggestion form such as "Howabout picking up the blocks now?"
in an environmentwhere authority and role relationships make it clearthat the utterance is functioning as a command.
InAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980 157Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech Actsgeneral, force shift seems to be used to give P1 theappearance of greater benevolence or to save face forP2.What these phenomena have in common, I think, istheir "second order" nature.
All can be seen as pre-supposing a set of rules and then deviating from them.I expect these phenomena to be modelled by themechanisms for rule application, not accounted for byindividual rules alone.
Since such mechanisms couldbe expected to build on, and interact with, the "firstorder" rule application mechanism, these phenomenahave been considered beyond the scope of the currentinvestigation.The rules in this section are proposed to hold forspeech acts in general.
ISAs are not grounded solelyin individual speech acts, as for Gordon and Lakoff, oreven in types of speech acts as for Searle.
Instead,they are related to a broader view of rational actionanalogous to that expounded by Grice.
Speech acts,because they are actions, do have structural compo-nents that play an important part in the derivation ofISAs.
The driving force behind ISAs, however, is theprocess of goal formation, i.e.
the process of decidingwhether to adopt a speech act as a goal.
This processis reflected in the three maxims that were used as aconceptual organization for the presentation.
Thisemphasis on the goal formation process is closely rela-ted to the work of Allen, Cohen, and Perrault\[1,8,21\].
The similarities and differences between thetwo approaches are discussed in Section 6.5.
Relating Utterances to the General RulesThe general ISA rules in the last section were illus-trated with English sentences, but nothing has as yetbeen said about the correspondence b tween particularutterances and rules.
This section discusses in broadterms the nature of the correspondence, focusing ondifferences in complexity.
Because the topic is diffi-cult to present in a neutral way, it will be approachedfrom the point of view of language recognition, i.e.,matching utterances against rules.
Much of what issaid, however, is relevant for generation as well.
Notethat discussion in this section is restricted to the issueof proposing correct matches; issues related to choos-ing between alternative interpretations of an utterance(i.e., alternative matches) are deliberately avoided.
(See, however, \[4\]).5.1.
Levels of Matching ComplexityAny discussion of matching rests on a set of as-sumptions about the representations involved.
Webriefly outline some of the assumptions made here,starting with a distinction between two levels of repre-sentation: surface and internal.Each utterance is expected to have (at least) asurface representation a d an internal representation.Internal representations are also used for action struc-tures, including preconditions, and for ISA rules andpatterns.
Internal representations are organized in aknowledge base according to a semantic network for-malism.
Surface representations closely reflect thesurface form of an utterance, and only those distinc-tions forced by the parsing process are made.
Thus,noun group references not needed by the parser mayremain unresolved (e.g., "I saw him").
Choicesamong systematically ambiguous relationships of con-stituents and choices among ambiguous word sensesalso need not be made unless they are forced.
ISAforms are preserved; e.g., "Can you close the door?
"would have a surface representation that records itsinterrogative nature and that contains a surface itemcorresponding to "can.
"An important implication of these attributes i thatsurface representation draws from a different vocabu-lary of semantic items than internal representation.For example, the surface item "believe" used in repre-senting "I believe you're fight" is related to, but is notthe same as, the internal item "believe" that corre-sponds to the general idea-holding concept from Sec-tion 3.3.
Surface items do, however, have associatedinternal evel definitions which specify the ways thatthey can be translated into internal evel representa-tions.
These definitions include various potentialtranslations; context is typically called on in each indi-vidual case to choose among alternatives and to speci-fy details.The problem for ISA matching, then, is to relatethe definitions of items in the surface representation fan ISA to ISA patterns.
The ISA patterns are pro-duced by applying the general rules from the last sec-tion to the method representations of particular speechacts.
Matching will be discussed using as an examplethe pattern produced by applying rule UNMARKED-ASK to request precondition II:P1 asks whether P2 can take responsibilityfor carrying out action A.Consider, then, the following examples interpreted asindirect requests.5.1 Can you close the door?5.2 Are you able to close the door?5.3 Are you permitted to close the door?5.4 Can you please close the door?5.5 Will you be home in time to walk the dog?5.6 Have you got a hammer to put up that hook?5.7 Must you smoke?5.8 Can you reach the salt?5.9 It's cold in here.158 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech ActsExamples 5.1 to 5.3 can be handled by a set ofgeneral purpose matching rules that reflect hierarchicalrelationships in the knowledge base.
The "can" inexample 5.1 matches can in the above ISA pattern,since we can expect surface "can" to have internal canas a major part of its associated efinition.
(Othercomponents in the definition might include the conno-tations of the lexical item.)
Similarly, "are you able"in example 5.2 is an exact match, since we can alsoexpect its associated definition to contain can as acomponent.
In example 5.3, "permitted" has may as acomponent in its definition, and in the knowledge basemay is a specialization (i.e., subclass) of can.The important point in these matches is that ele-ments of internal evel definitions of surface items arerelated to elements of ISA patterns via the hierarchicalrelationships of the knowledge base, i.e., via prede-fined classification links.
Thus, proposing the requestinterpretation for examples 5.1 to 5.3 involves rela-tively well understood knowledge base manipulations.Example 5.4 is a typical utterance that is not ac-counted for by the ISA patterns given.
The problem isthat example 5.4, a question according to its interroga-tive form, contains "please", a construct reserved forrequest and related speech acts.
Utterances of thisform have been much-discussed in the literature (e.g.Sadock \[22\], Searle \[25\], and Morgan \[20\]).
Thequestion is whether this form has evolved to the pointthat it is "really" a request only, no longer also a ques-tion.
The interest is fueled by questions of the natureof meaning that are involved.
Because I am interestedin focusing on generalizations possible about ISAs,these issues will be omitted from discussion here.
It isworth noting, however, that, whatever the ultimatetheoretical disposition of these forms may be, they willprobably have to be handled in a computational sys-tem by specialized patterns, to represent heir uniqueproperties.
One such representation scheme, closelyrelated to Morgan's notion of short-circuitedentailment, is given in \[4\].The rest of the examples above, 5.5 through 5.9,can be related to the "can" request pattern in a regularfashion, but they require a richer set of matching rela-tionships.
Example 5.5 is typical of examples forwhich proposing a match may turn out to involve arbi-trarily complex inference.
To begin to account forexample 5.5, we can posit some link between can inthe ISA pattern and a representation for being in theappropriate spatial proximity to do an action.
Thislink may be hierarchical, or part of a definition relatedto the internal node can, or both.This treatment does not, however, fully solve theproblem exemplified by example 5.5.
There is still agood distance between the relationship of being athome with a dog and the idea of being in the fightrange to perform the action of taking it for a walk.The level of detail in the utterance is so much morespecific than the level of detail in the pattern that wecannot expect a match by merely traversing precom-puted links in a knowledge base.
Another differencebetween 5.5 and the previous examples is that theknowledge needed to propose the match may go be-yond information conveyed by the utterance to infor-mation from the surrounding context.
Either of thesetwo factors has the potential to turn the process ofproposing interpretations for utterances uch as exam-ple 5.5 into a full-blown inference process, with all theattendant difficulties in controlling the inference.The rest of the examples can be expected to bemore tractable, because we can take advantage ofspecialized links in the model of actions introduced inSection 3.
Example 5.6 makes a "can you" request byasking whether P2 has an assignment (the hammer)for the instrument semantic ase of the action (puttingup a hook).
Several different ypes of semantic asescan be queried in this way (see \[4\]); the structuralmodel of actions supplies links between actions andtheir cases that can be traversed in this match.For examples 5.7 to 5.9, we can again exploit themodel of actions to propose matches.
The three ex-amples may have request interpretations where theactions intended are, respectively, that P2 stop smok-ing, pass the salt, and close the window.
Note thatnone of the three examples describes these actionsexplicitly, and for that reason I have called utterancesof this class implicit-action ISAs .
These three exam-ples represent hree classes of implicit-action ISAs,which differ in the complexity of the search needed topropose a match.
For example 5.7 there is essentiallyno search; the implicit action is merely that P2 stop oravoid the action named.
Example 5.8 names a prere-quisite of the implicit salt passing action.
Recall fromSection 3.1 that prerequisites are among the basicparts of methods.
Other components of actions, in-cluding semantic input cases, steps, and principal re-suits, may also be used in implicit-action ISAs.
All ofthese are related to the action by the explicit links ofthe method representation.
Finally, example 5.9 al-ludes to the intended action by stating a basis for theaction, i.e., a condition seen as sufficient to warrantthe action.
"Basis for action" can be related to thestructural links of methods (see \[4\]), but the relation-ship between the condition named in the utterance andthe implicit action is relatively complex.
Implicit-action ISAs are discussed in more detail in \[5\].We have, then, classes of utterances that obey rela-tively constrained matching relationships and classesthat could involve an arbitrary inference process topropose interpretations.
In between is a set of utter-ances for which proposal of interpretations can utilizestructural links within action representations.
Difficultproblems of search and knowledge structuring remainAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980 159Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech Actsunsolved, but the links identified at least specify thetypes of paths that we can expect o see in matches ofISA patterns.5.2.
Embedded ISAsIn the discussion of matching, the initial assumptionwas that matching of surface representations occurredagainst patterns produced by single applications ofrules to speech act methods.
This assumption makesno provision for embedded forms.
Some evidencedoes exist for this approach.
For example, Sadock\[22\], in another context, observes that 5.10 is not arequest for the hearer to move over, even though thesimilar form 5.11 is.5.10 Tell me if you can move over.5.11 Can you move over?In terms of the rules presented in Section 4, a requestinterpretation for 5.10 could only come from an em-bedded rule application: the UNMARKED-ASK ruleapplied to request II, resulting in ask, then theCOMPOSITE-REQUEST rule applied to four of thepreconditions of ask (see the Appendix).
Forbiddingsuch a double application effectively blocks a requestinterpretation, leaving only the information-seekingalternative.This straightforward solution, augmented by vari-ous classes of exceptions, was adopted in \[4\].
Theembedded examples that have accumulated since, how-ever, are too numerous to be accounted for simply asexceptions.
Consider the following indirect requests:5.12 I wonder if you can move over.5.13 I believe it's your turn to do the dishes.For 5.12, the internal level definition of wonder wouldinclude the following information:P1 wonder if <action or state>1.
P1 wants to know if <action or state>2.
P1 is speculating if <action or state>Example 5.12 is eharacterizable by applying rule P1-ASSERT to ask I (P1 wants to know the answer to thequestion) after applying rule UNMARKED-ASK torequest II.
Example 5.13 is eharacterizable by apply-ing rule P1-ASSERT to state I (P1 believes X is afact) after applying rule UNMARKED-ASSERT torequest IV.These examples, and others like them, seem to bebest accounted for by politeness conditions.
8 In partic-ular, I suggest he following hypothesis: embedding ofgeneral ISA rules is permitted when it furthers thepoliteness intentions of P1, either to heighten polite-8 "Politeness" is used here quite broadly to include not onlyobservation of the conventions of etiquette, but also the expressionof respect for the other participant and the expression only ofemotions harmonious with the social expectations associated withthe conversational environment.ness or to lessen it.
These processes are referred tohere as mitigation and aggravation, respectively.
(Theterms are borrowed from Labov and Fanshel \[16\] butapply to a somewhat broader range of phenomenahere.)
Embeddings within rules that are unmarked forpoliteness are forbidden, as are embeddings where therules involved have conflicting politeness markings.Evidence for this hypothesis is found in comparingexample 5.12 to 5.14:5.14 I want to know if you can move over.Example 5.14 is derivable from the same set of rulesas 5.12, but 5.12 conveys a request force while 5.14does not.
The reason for this, I suggest, is that theUNMARKED-ASK rule is a mitigator: questions, ingeneral, promote politeness by giving P2 an opportuni-ty to answer, allowing P2 to refuse to accept P l ' sgoals in uttering the speech act.
"I wonder" is similar-ly undemanding: the emphasis is more on the specula-tion process P1 is involved in than the "wanting toknow" aspect.
In contrast, the "I want to know" in5.14 works in the direction of aggravation.
A goalstated explicitly leaves P2 very little room to refuse P1without doing so explicitly.
In narrowing P2's options,P1 has lowered the level of politeness.
Example 5.12,then, with both rule applications working in the direc-tion of mitigation, is a permitted embedding.
Example5.14, with one rule application producing mitigationand one aggravation, is blocked as an indirect request.This approach can also be used to explain the blockon embedding in example 5.10.
The COMPOSITE-REQUEST rule realized with an imperative is not amitigator, while the UNMARKED-ASK rule realizedwith a question is.
Thus, the indirect request interpre-tation is blocked.The examples presented make a case for the use ofpoliteness conditions to govern ISA rule embedding,but it must be emphasized that more work is needed.Despite the work on politeness conditions, much ofthis area is not well understood.
(For three differentperspectives on the implications of ISA choices, seeLakoff \[17\], Davison \[9\], and Ervin-Tripp \[10\].)
Con-elusive proof or disproof of the hypothesis awaits ananalysis of the implications of ISA choices at a level ofdetail and completeness that is not yet available.6.
Computational ImplicationsThis paper has characterized a significant numberof ISA forms, with attention to representational issues.As noted in the introduction, these are the only claimsmade, although the ultimate motivation of the workwas not only computational but was directed by aparticular computational philosophy of language recog-nition.
This philosophy will be described briefly here,with emphasis on the way that the theory presentedfits into it.
Due to the number of issues involved, I160 American Journal  of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, Ju ly-December 1980Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech Actswill again consider only ISA pattern identification, i.e.proposing the candidate matches for a particular utter-ance form.
Issues related to choosing between alter-natives are discussed in \[4\], along with a frameworkfor using dialogue context to aid in this choice.
Theapproach to ISA pattern identification suggested willbe contrasted with two other computational ap-proaches, that of Moore, Levin, and Mann \[18,19\] andAllen, Cohen, and Perrault \[1,8,21\].
We start with asummary of each approach.The central structure in the process model of dia-logue developed by Moore, Levin, and Mann is calledthe dialogue game.
Dialogue games are proceduresthat include steps for speech acts and their standardrange of responses.
Indirect speech act forms arerelated to these larger structures according to the gen-eral principle that any utterance that can establish theparameters of a dialogue game can serve as an ISA.For recognition, the correspondence between particu-lar ISAs and parameters i done by applying rule-liketransformations using partial match and plausible in-ference techniques.
Representations of utterances areplaced in a pool of facts about the dialogue wherecorrespondences are drawn by highly parallel"anarchic" control structures.The second computational approach to ISAs, thatof Allen et al, focuses on the speech act planningprocess.
Allen's work is most relevant here, because itdeals in detail with ISA recognition.
Alien introducesthe notion of an obstacle, a type of condition in thespeech act planning process that provides the subjectmatter for many varieties of ISAs.
This approachappears to generate a more constrained set of possibleISA forms than the approach of Moore et al and givesmore basis for an explanation of the variety of forms.To draw the correspondence b tween ISAs and speechact plans, Allen et al propose a general inferenceprocess guided by heuristics uch as the principle thatinference stops when a non-obvious condition is pro-posed as the topic of the ISA.These approaches and the one advocated here havein common the reliance on representation of actions tocharacteihze indirect speech acts.
Allen, Cohen, andPerrault view the speech act as an independent unit;Moore, Levin and Mann relate ISAs to larger units ofactivity that have speech act components and that aredefined according to the goals achieved by the speechacts.
This difference between the approaches of Allenet al and Moore et al is, I think, primarily one ofpresentation rather than substance.
The approachadvocated here is a combination of the two perspec-tives.
A complete system would need both the abilityto handle the prototype speech act plus response se-quences (called core dialogue methods in \[4\]) and theability to treat speech acts as basic building blockswithin other sequences.
By focusing on independentspeech acts in this paper, I do not intend to rule outtheir incorporation within larger actions.A more substantive difference among the ap-proaches is the mechanism envisioned for drawingcorrespondences between individual ISAs and ISApatterns.
Both of the approaches ummarized aboveare theoretical in a traditional sense, in that they positone mechanism powerful enough to account for anyutterance, i.e., a mechanism powerful enough to han-dle the most difficult case.
Coupled with the interestin maximizing power is the interest in maximizing sim-plicity; redundancy in the representation structure isnot expected or exploited.In contrast, the proposals in this paper are motivat-ed by an "appropriate technology" view of ISA pat-tern identification.
From this perspective, ISA pat-terns are assumed to be particularly adapted to com-munication, so that identifying candidate ISA patternsis not typically a general problem solving process.
(Iemphasize here pattern identification; choosing be-tween the alternative candidates identified appears tobe a more open-ended process.)
Given these assump-tions, the search is for a way to identify the most fre-quently used ISA forms simply, short of full-blownproblem solving.
The solution could include a hier-archy of processing strategies, differentiated to handledifferent levels of complexity.The descriptive model presented in the precedingsections relates to this philosophy on two counts:matching processes and the choice of levels of repre-sentation.
Each is considered in turn.Section 5 described several different ypes of matchbetween particular ISA representations and patterns:first, those matches using only predefined classificationlinks in the knowledge base; second, those requiringevaluation of representations, possibly augmented bycontextual information, to establish classification links;and, third, those using definition and method compo-nent links, again with or without the use of additionalcontextual information.
While these distinctions canbe used to guide a general inference mechanism, theycould also be used in the development of specializedmatching strategies, to take advantage of properties ofthe representations and links involved.Along with the use of specialized processors forISA pattern identification can come the use of special-ized, and to an extent redundant, representations.This is most evident in the preceding pages in the dis-tinction between using the goal formation process as aconceptual organization of ISAs (and, hence, to anextent as an explanation) versus its use as a directbasis for drawing correspondences with individualISAs.
The ISA patterns assumed are at least threelevels removed from any actual goal formation proce-dure: the use of maxims is an abstraction of the proce-American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980 161Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech Actsdure; generalized rules are based on maxims; and thenISA patterns are produced by applying rules to indi-vidual speech acts.
This is in contrast to plan deduc-tion of Allen et al, which uses only very general rulescoupled with the representations of the plan deductionprocess.
Similarly, what was called the better-knowledge principle was "precompi led" into rules,rather than combined with more general rules by infer-ence.
The thrust of the effort is to push ISA patternsto a level as close as possible to the representations ofparticular ISAs; in fact, in many cases this paper hasnot gone as far as possible, and I think, as ultimatelydesirable, in producing highly specific ISA patterns.This representational style is expected to have threeeffects.
First, for many cases, it avoids problems in-herent in general inference processes of controlling thedirection of inference toward the "interesting" cases.Second, the more specialized the patterns, the simplerthe individual match processes, and the more formscan be handled by cheaper processes.
Third, the vari-ous ISA patterns give a natural place to associate in-formation about idiomaticity and specialized informa-tion about implications of ISA choice.Note that these various mechanisms and represent-ations cannot be introduced arbitrarily.
To be effec-tive, they must be chosen based on an understandingof the structure of indirect speech act classes, i.e.
onan appropriate descriptive theory.
This brings us backto the original claims of the paper; it is hoped that theproposals made are a step toward such a theory.Finally, it should be emphasized that the computa-tional apparatus sketched here complements,  ratherthan seeks to replace, a generalized problem solvingmechanism for ISA pattern identification.
The hy-pothesis is that only a relatively small proportion ofISAs require the more general (and more expensive)mechanism.
It is possible that the use of redundantmechanisms and representations can lead to good com-putational solutions to the problem of modell ing alarge body of indirect speech acts.Appendix.
Indirect Forms for Sample Speech Acts?
askpropositional content: some questionperformative: I ask you ...other direct form:<interrogat ive> e.g., Where's the mustard?principal intended effect: that P2 tell P1 the answer tothe question in the propositional contentRule NECESSARY-ASSERT:I have to ask you where the mustard is.Rule NECESSARY-ASK:Do I need to ask you where the mustard is?Rule EQUI-ASK:Did I ask you where the mustard is?Rule FUTURE-EFFECT-ASK:Do you intend to tell me where the mustard is?Rule PAST-EFFECT-ASK:Did you tell me where the mustard is?Rule DESIRABLE-ASSERT:I'l l be able to finish these sandwiches if you tellme where the mustard is.Rule DESIRABLE-ASK:Will you feel better if you tell me where the mus-tard is?Rule UNDESIRABLE-ASK:Will you be angry if I ask you where the mustardis?Precondition-Based ExamplesI.
P1 wants to know the answer to the question.
(Want here and in IV implies that P1 does not al-ready know the answer.
The case where P1 doesknow and merely wants to know if P2 knows -- andwhere P2 knows that P1 knows -- is classed as an-other speech act.
Know is considered to be a re-stricted form of believe; while anything can be be-lieved, only facts can be known.
For ask, the"fact"  is that some proposition is the answer to thequestion.
)Rule P1-ASSERT:I want to know where the mustard is.II.
P1 believes that P2 can tell the answer to the ques-tion.
(Tell is used here and below to mean "utter a repre-sentative"; see Searle \[26\].
)Rule UNMARKED-ASK:Can you tell me where the mustard is?Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:You can tell me where the mustard is.III.
P1 believes that P2 is willing to tell the answer tothe question.Rule P2-ASK:Would you be willing to tell me where the mus-tard is?IV.
P1 wants P2 to tell P1 the answer to the question.Rule P1-ASSERT:I 'd like you to tell me where the mustard is.V.
P1 believes that P2 has some obligation (a roleobligation, authority obligation, or general obligationto be cooperative) to P1 to tell P1 the answer to thequestion.Rule UNMARKED-ASK:?
Should you tell me where the mustard is?
(Although it is possible to construct contexts inwhich this form can be used, it seems to beonly marginal.
Forms such as "Shouldn't  you162 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech Actstell me ...?"
and "Don't  you think you shouldtell me...?"
are far more common.
Perhaps thisis because the "should" form is too neutralwith respect to the obligation.
To the extentthat the obligation is motivated by P l ' s  wantsor needs, then P1 defines the obligation.
Evenfor other obligations, situations are scarce inwhich P1 can reasonably be presented as neu-tral about the existence of the obligation.
Inmost cases, to successfully carry out the speechact, P1 must use a form that conveys P l ' s  be-lief that the obligation exists.
)Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:You ought to tell me where the mustard is.I I -V together:Rule COMPOSITE-REQUEST:Tell me where the mustard is.Rule COMPOSITE-ASK:Will you tell me where the mustard is??
stateproposit ional content: some proposit ion that P1 be-lieves to be open to confirmation against what P1believes is commonly held to be reality(This is contrasted with opinions, e.g., judgmentsabout tastes, which are assumed to be conveyedby a different type of speech act.
)performative: I state that ...other direct form: <declarat ive> e.g., Your candidateis a convicted felon.principal intended effect: that P2 come to know theproposition at the same level of detail and certainty asP1Rule NECESSARY-ASSERT:I have to tell you that your candidate is a convict-ed felon.Rule NECESSARY-ASK:Do I need to tell you that your candidate is aconvicted felon?Rule EQUI-ASK:Has anybody told you that your candidate is aconvicted felon?Rule FUTURE-EFFECT-ASK:  GAP(Once a fact is mentioned, inquiry about futureknowledge of that fact is irrelevant.
This rulesout forms such as "Will you hear that..
.?"
and"Will you know that ...?
")Rule PAST-EFFECT-ASK:Did you hear that your candidate is a convictedfelon?Rule DESIRABLE-ASSERT:It 's important hat you hear that your candidate isa convicted felon.Rule DESIRABLE-ASK:?
Is it helpful for you to hear that your candidateis a convicted felon?
(The stative form "Is it helpful for you to knowthat..
.?"
is much more acceptable.
This formwould be derived using DESIRABLE-ASK and animplicit-action rule.
See Section 5 for generaldiscussion.
)Rule UNDESIRABLE-ASK:Will you be angry if I tell you that your candidateis a convicted felon?Precondition-Based ExamplesI.
P1 believes that some proposition is a fact.Rule P1-ASSERT:I think that your candidate is a convicted felon.II.
P1 believes that P2 does not know the propositionat the same level of detail and certainty that P 1 does.
(The mention of "level of detail" here is motivatedby an interest in including statements which couldotherwise be mistakenly classed as redundant.
Forexample, if P2 knows that it is raining, then thestatement " I t 's  raining" should be a violation ofprecondition II; a statement such as " I t 's  pouring,"however, should not.
)Rule UNMARKED-ASK:Are you unaware that your candidate is a con-victed felon?Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:You don't  know that your candidate is a con-victed felon.III.
P1 wants P2 to know the proposition at the samelevel of detail and certainty that P1 does.Rule P1-ASSERT:I want you to know that your candidate is aconvicted felon.IV.
P1 believes that it is in P l ' s ,  P2's, or someoneelse's interest that P2 know the proposit ion at thesame level of detail and certainty that P1 does.Rule UNMARKED-ASK:Should you know that your candidate is a con-victed felon?Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:You should know that your candidate is a con-victed felon.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980 163Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech Acts?
offerproposit ional content: some action that P1 believeswill be of benefit to P2performative: I offer you ...other direct form: noneprincipal intended effect: that P2 accept P l ' s  commit-ment to take responsibility for the action in the propo-sitional contentRule NECESSARY-ASSERT:?
I must offer you a ride to the airport.
(In general, necessity alone is not considered tobe enough to motivate an offer, although in prac-tice, of course, it may be the sole motivation.The proposit ional content specification of offerincludes the notion of benefit to P2, so P1 is ex-pected to have the well-being of P2 in mind.
Thestatement of necessity alone clashes with this ex-pected benevolence.
The only way that this ex-ample form could be used for a sincere offer is ifmust is used in the same way as in the polite offercited by R.Lakoff,  "You must have some cake.
")Rule NECESSARY-ASK:?Do I need to offer you a ride to the airport?
(Beyond the considerations noted for theNECESSARY-ASSERT example, this form seemsto be marginal due to the conflict between itsangry connotations and the level of politenessinvolved in an offer.
)Rule EQUI-ASK:Has anybody offered you a ride to the airport?Rule FUTURE-EFFECT-ASK:  GAP(This gap is explained by the fact that the princi-pal intended effect for offer can be brought aboutonly by the speech act; there is no independentmeans of achieving it.
)Rule PAST-EFFECT-ASK:Have you already accepted a ride to the airport?Rule DESIRABLE-ASSERT:I 'd feel a lot better if you'd accept a ride to theairport.Rule DESIRABLE-ASK:?
Will you stop worrying if you accept a ride tothe airport?
(An elaboration of this rule may be warranted,since a form that explicitly names the speech actis much more acceptable, e.g., "Will you stopworrying if I offer you a ride to the airport?"
It isnot clear, however, exactly how to proceed, sincecomparable "explicit speech act" forms for requestand suggest do not seem to exist.
)Rule UNDESIRABLE-ASK:Will you be offended if I offer to loan you somemoney?Precondition-Based ExamplesI.
P1 wants to take responsibility for the action.Rule P1-ASSERT:I want to drive you to the airport.II.
P1 believes that P1 can take responsibility for P l ' spart of the action.Rule UNMARKED-ASK:Can I drive you to the airport?Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:I can drive you to the airport.III.
P1 is willing to take responsibility for P l ' s  part ofthe action.Rule P1-ASSERT:I 'm more than willing to drive you to the air-port.IV.
P1 wants P2 to perform some action that comple-ments P l ' s  part of the action.
(Examples of complementary actions would bephysically taking food offered by a hostess or get-ting into a car and sitting in response to an offer ofa ride from a friend.
A general way to refer to P2'sperformance of a complementary action in responseto an offered action is to say that P2 accepted, e.g.," Jane thanked Paula and accepted the gift.
")Rule P1-ASSERT:I want you to accept a ride to the airport.V.
P1 believes P2 can perform some action that com-plements P l ' s  part of the action.Rule UNMARKED-ASK:Can you accept a ride to the airport?Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:You can accept a ride to the airport.VI.
P1 believes that P2 would be willing to performsome action that complements P l ' s  part of the action.Rule P2-ASK:Would you be willing to accept a ride to theairport?VII.
P1 believes that P2 has an obligation (to "becooperat ive")  to P1 to perform some action that com-plements P l ' s  part of the action.
(It is generally in P2's interest to accept an offer,and so one of the obligations involved in acceptingan offer is P2's obligation to further his or her ownself interest.
Beyond, this, however, P2 has an obli-gation to help further P1 's goals by virtue of a gen-eral social obligation to be cooperative.
In accept-ing an offer, P2 is enhancing P l ' s  image as a benev-olent person, P l ' s  satisfaction in giving, etc.
Byaccepting, then, P2 is furthering P l ' s  goals and be-ing "cooperat ive.
")Rule UNMARKED-ASK:?
Should you accept a ride to the airport?
(See discussion for ask V.)Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:You must accept a ride to the airport.164 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech ActsVIII.
P1 believes that P2 has an obligation to P2 (byvirtue of P2's own self-interest) to perform some ac-tion that complements P l ' s  part of the action.Rule UNMARKED-ASK:?
That suitcase is heavy.
Should you let medrive you to the airport?
(See discussion for ask V.)Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:That suitcase is heavy.
You should let me driveyou to the airport.IV-VII together:Rule COMPOSITE-REQUEST:Please accept a ride to the airport.Rule COMPOSITE-ASK:Will you accept a ride to the airport??
suggestpropositional content: an actionexcept for: actions in which P1 and P2 share com-mon agency(In excluding actions where P1 and P2 share com-mon agency, I am merely arguing for a separatetype of speech act, e.g., suggest-common-action, tocover such cases.
)performative: I suggest ...other direct forms:1.
What about <act ion>?
e.g., What about join-ing the Marines?2.
How about <act ion>?
e.g., How about joiningthe Marines?principal intended effect: that P2 consider takingresponsibility for the action in the propositionalcontent.Rule NECESSARY-ASSERT:I must suggest hat you join the Marines.Rule NECESSARY-ASK:Need I suggest hat you join the Marines?Rule EQUI-ASK:Has anyone suggested that you join the Ma-rines?Rule FUTURE-EFFECT-ASK:Are you thinking about joining the Marines?Rule PAST-EFFECT-ASK:Have you considered joining the Marines?Rule DESIRABLE-ASSERT:I'd be pleased if you'd consider joining the Ma-rines.Rule DESIRABLE-ASK:Would your parents be happy if you consideredjoining the Marines?Rule UNDESIRABLE-ASK:Would you be offended if I suggested that youjoin the Marines?Precondition-Based ExamplesI.
P1 wants P2 to consider taking responsibility forthe action.Rule P1-ASSERT:I want you to think about joining the Ma-rines.II.
P1 believes that P2 can consider taking responsi-bility for the action.Rule UNMARKED-ASK:Could you think about joining the Marines?Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:You could think about joining the Marines.III.
P1 believes that P2 is willing to consider takingresponsibility for the action.Rule P2-ASK:Are you willing to consider joining the Ma-rines?IV.
P1 believes that P2 has an obligation (to "becooperative") to P1 to consider the action.
(The "be cooperative" obligation is similar to thatfor offer VII.
The obligation arises from the factthat a goal of P1 is involved in a suggest, via pre-condition I.
)Rule UNMARKED-ASK:?
Should you think about joining the Ma-rines?
(See discussion for ask V.)Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:You must think about joining the Marines.V.
P1 believes that P2 can take responsibility forthe action.Rule UNMARKED-ASK:Can you join the Marines?Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:You can join the Marines.VI.
P1 believes that P2 is willing to take responsibil-ity for the action.Rule P2-ASK:Are you willing to join the Marines?VII.
P1 believes that there are some reasons whythe action is desirable.Rule UNMARKED-ASK:Would it be good for you to join the Ma-rines?Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:You'd be a credit to your sorority if youjoined the Marines.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980 165Gretchen P. Brown Characterizing Indirect Speech ActsVIII.
P1 believes that P2 has an obligation to P2(by virtue of P2's own self-interest) to considertaking responsibility for the action.Rule UNMARKED-ASK:You need a new experience.
Should you jointhe Marines?Rule UNMARKED-ASSERT:You need a new experience.
You should jointhe Marines.I-IV together:Rule COMPOSITE-REQUEST:Think about joining the Marines.Rule COMPOSITE-ASK:Will you consider joining the Marines?AcknowledgementsThis paper builds on work in knowledge repre-sentation done by William A. Martin and membersof the Knowledge Based Systems Group at theM.I.T.
Laboratory for Computer Science.
I am alsograteful to William Mark, Candace Sidner, PeterSzolovits, James Weiner, and the referees for manyhelpful comments.
Special thanks to MichaelMcCord and George Heidorn for substantial con-tributions to the presentation.References1.
Allen, J.
"A Plan-Based Approach to Speech Act Recogni-tion," Technical Report No.
131/79 (February 1979), Depart-ment of Computer Science, University of Toronto, Toronto,Canada.2.
Austin, J.L.
How to Do Things with Words, Oxford UniversityPress, New York, 1962.3.
Brown, G.P.
"A Framework for Processing Dialogue," LCSTR-182 (June 1977), Laboratory for Computer Science,M.I.T., Cambridge, MA.4.
Brown, G.P.
"Toward a Computational Theory of IndirectSpeech Acts," LCS TR-223 (September 1979), Laboratory forComputer Science, M.I.T.
Cambridge, MA.5.
Brown, G.P.
"Action Descriptions in Indirect Speech Acts,"Cognition and Brain Theory, Vol.
3, No.
3, Spring 1980.6.
Brown, G.P.
"Linguistic and Situational Context in a Modelof Task-Oriented Dialogue," to appear in Vaina and Hintikka(eds.
): Cognitive Constraints on Communication Representationsand Processes, D. Reidel, Dortrecht, Holland.7.
Bruce, B.C.
"Belief Systems and Language Understanding,"BBN Report No.
2973 (January 1975), Bolt, Beranek andNewman, Inc., Cambridge, MA.8.
Cohen, P.R.
"On Knowing What to Say: Planning SpeechActs," Technical Report No.
118 (January 1978), Departmentof Computer Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Cana-da.9.
Davison A.
"Indirect Speech Acts and What to Do WithThem," in: Cole and Morgan (eds.)
Syntax and Semantics, vol.3, Academic Press, New York, 1975.10.
Ervin-Tripp, S. "Wait for Me, Roller Skate," in: Ervin-Trippand Mitchell-Kernan (eds.)
Child Discourse, Academic Press,New York, 1977.11.
Fraser, B.
"Hedged Performatives," in: Cole and Morgan(eds.)
Syntax and Semantics, vol.
3, Academic Press, NewYork, 1975.12.
Gordon, D. and Lakoff, G. "Conversational Postulates," in:Cole and Morgan (eds.)
Syntax and Semantics, vol.
3, Academ-ic Press, New York, 1975.13.
Grice, H.P.
"Logic and Conversation," in: Cole and Morgan(eds.)
Syntax and Semantics, vol.
3, Academic Press, NewYork, 1975.14.
Grosz, B.
"The Representation a d Use of Focus in a Systemfor Understanding Dialogs," Proceedings of the Fifth Interna-tional Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Cambridge,Mass.
(August 1977).15.
Hawkinson, L. "The Representation of Concepts in OWL,"Advance Papers of the Fourth International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Tbilisi, Georgia, USSR (September1975).16.
Labov, W. and Fanshel, D. Therapeutic Discourse, AcademicPress, New York, 1977.17.
Lakoff, R. "The Logic of Politeness; of, Minding Your p'sand q's," Papers from the Ninth Regional Meeting of the ChicagoLinguistic Society, Department of Linguistics, University ofChicago, Chicago IL.18.
Levin, J.A.
and Moore, J.A.
"Dialogue Games: Meta-communication Structures for Natural Language Interaction,"Cognitive Science, Vol.
1, No.
4, October 1977.19.
Moore, J.A., Levin, J .A,  and Mann, W.C. "A Goal-OrientedModel of Human Dialogue," American Journal of Computation-al Linguistics, Microfiche 67 (1977).20.
Morgan, J.L.
"Two Types of Convention in Indirect SpeechActs," in: Cole (ed.)
Syntax and Semantics, vol.
9, AcademicPress, New York, 1978.21.
Perrault, C.R., Allen, J.F., and Cohen P.R.
"Speech Acts as aBasis for Understanding Dialogue Coherence," TheoreticalIssues in Natural Language Processing-2, University of Illinois atUrbana-Champaign, (July 1978).22.
Sadock, J.M.
Toward a Linguistic Theory of Speech Acts, Aca-demic Press, New York, 1974.23.
Schank, R. and Abelson, R. Scripts, Plans, Goals, andUnderstanding, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, NJ1977.24.
Searle, J.R.
Speech Acts, University Press, Cambridge, 1969.25.
Searle, J.R. "Indirect Speech Acts," in: Cole and Morgan(eds.)
Syntax and Semantics, vol.
3, Academic Press, NewYork, 1975.26.
Searle, J.R. "A Taxonomy of Illocutionary Acts," in: Gunder-son (ed.
), Language, Mind, and Knowledge, University of Min-?
nesota Press, 1976.27.
Szolovits, P., Hawkinson, L., and Martin, W.A.
"An Overviewof OWL, a Language for Knowledge Representation," Proceed-ings of the Workshop on Natural Language for Interaction withData Bases, International Institute for Applied Systems Analy-sis, Laxenburg, Austria; also available as LCS-TM-86, (June1977), Laboratory for Computer Science, M.I.T., Cambridge,MA.28.
Verschueren, J.
"The Analysis of Speech Act Verbs: Theoret-ical Preliminaries," (August 1977) Indiana University Linguis-tics Club, Bloomington, IN.Gretchen P. Brown is a Computer Scientist in theSponsored Research Division of the Computer Corpora-tion of America.
She received the Electrical Engineerdegree in computer science from the Massachusetts Insti-tute of Technology in 1974.166 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 6, Number 3-4, July-December 1980
