Discourse-Oriented Anaphora Resolution inNatural Language Understanding: A ReviewGraeme HirstDepartment of Computer ScienceBrown UniversityProvidence, Rhode Island 02912Recent research in anaphora resolution has emphasized the effects of discoursestructure and cohesion in determining what concepts are available as possible referents, andhow discourse cohesion can aid reference resolution.
Five approaches, all within thisparadigm and yet al distinctly different, are presented, and their strengths and weaknessesevaluated.1.
IntroductionTo resolve various forms of definite reference uanaphora in particular - -  early natural language un-derstanding systems (reviewed in Hirst 1981) typicallyused a simple kind of history list of concepts previous-ly mentioned in the input, with heuristics for selectingfrom this list.
The history list was usually just a shiftregister containing the noun phrases from the last sen-tence or two, and the heuristics would take into ac-count (among other things) selectional restrictions andsyntactic constraints on pronominalization.
SHRDLU(Winograd 1972) exemplifies this approach.
Althoughable to resolve some types of reference, these systemswere not able to handle reference in general, primarilybecause they did not take into account the effects ofdiscourse structure on reference and pronominaliza-tion.
This failure motivated work in computationaldiscourse understanding that attempted to exploit dis-course structure, especially the relationship betweenreference and discourse theme, to resolve definite ref-erence.The present paper 1 is a review of recent work inthis area.
Five principal approaches are surveyed:1.
Concept activatedness (Kantor) - -  an ex-amination of the factors affecting thepronominalizability of a concept;2.
Task-oriented ialogues (Grosz) - -  usinga priori knowledge of discourse structureto resolve references;3.
Frames as focus (Sidner) - -  using dis-course cues to choose a frame from aknowledge structure to act as focus;4.
Logical formalism (Webber) - -  choosing apredicate calculus-like representation tohandle problems uch as quantification ireference resolution;5.
Discourse cohesion (Hobbs, Lockman, andothers) - -  building a focus and resolvingreference by discovering the cohesive tiesin a text.Some preliminary definitions: By focus we meanthe set containing exactly those concepts available foranaphoric or other definite reference at a point in atext, a set which may conveniently be divided intoparts for nominal concepts, temporal concepts, verbalconcepts and so forth.2 The focus is closely related to,but not necessarily identical to, the theme of a dis-course - -  what the discourse is about - -  and since thelatter is also sometimes termed focus, there is someterminological confusion.
(See Section 2.6 and Chap-ter 4 of Hirst 1981 for further discussion of the dis-tinction between theme and focus.
)Strictly speaking, we mean by the referent of ananaphor or reference the real-world entity that it spec-ifies, while by antecedent we mean the textual itemthrough which the reference is made.
In (1-1):1 This paper is condensed from a chapter of a longer review ofresearch concerning anaphora and its computational resolution(Hirst 1981).2 In this paper we will be concerned mostly with focus fornominal concepts.
Temporal, locative and verbal focus are dis-cussed in Hirst (1981).Copyright 1981 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is grantedprovided that the copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the Journal reference and this copyright notice are included onthe first page.
To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or  specific permission.0362-613X/81/020085-14501.00Amer ican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April- June 1981 85Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora Resolution(1-1) The Queen splutters a little when shespeaks.
3the antecedent of she is the text The Queen and thereferent is the person who is queen.
Generally, how-ever, the two words can be (and are) used inter-changeably without confusion.2.
Concept  ac t ivatednessRobert Kantor (1977) has investigated the problemof why some pronouns in discourse are more compre-hensible than others, even when there is no ambiguityor anomaly.
In Kantor's terms, a hard-to-understandpronoun is an example of inconsiderate discourse, andspeakers (or, more usually, writers) who produce suchpronouns lack secondary llinguistic\] competence.
In ourterms, an inconsiderate pronoun is one that is notproperly in focus.I will first summarize Kantor's work, and then dis-cuss what we can learn about focus from it.2.1 Kantor ' s  thes i sKantor's main exhibit is the following text:(2-1) A good share of the amazing revival ofcommerce must be credited to the easeand security of communications within theempire.
'The Imperial fleet kept the Medi-terranean Sea cleared of pirates.
In eachprovince, the Roman emperor epaired orconstructed a number of skillfully de-signed roads.
They were built for thearmy but served the merchant class aswell.
Over them, messengers of the Impe-rial service, equipped with relays of hors-es, could average fifty miles a day.He claims that the they in the penultimate sentence ishard to comprehend, and that most informants need toreread the previous text to find its referent.
Yet thesentence is neither semantically anomalous nor ambi-guous - -  the roads is the only plural NP available as areferent, and it occurs immediately before the pronounwith only a full-stop intervening.
To explain this para-dox is the task Kantor set himself.Kantor's explanation is based on discourse topicand the listener's expectations.
In (2-1), the discoursetopic of the first three sentences is ease and security ofcommunication i  the Roman empire.
In the fourthsentence, there is an improper shift to the roads as thetopic: improper, because it is unexpected, and there isno discourse cue to signal it.
Had the demonstrativethese roads been used, the shift would have been okay.3 Underlining is used in this and subsequent examples to indi-cate the anaphor(s) of interest.
It does not indicate stress.
(Note that a definite NP such as the roads is notenough.)
Alternatively, the writer could have clarifiedthe text by combining the last three sentences withsemicolons, indicating that the last two main clauseswere to be construed as relating only to the precedingone rather than to the discourse as a whole.Kantor identifies a continuum of factors affectingthe comprehension of pronouns.
At one end is unres-tricted expectation and at the other negativeexpectation.
What this says in effect is that a pronounis easy to understand if its referent is expected, anddifficult if it is unexpected.
This is not as vacuous asit at first sounds; Kantor provides an analysis of somesubtle factors which affect expectation.The most expected pronominalizations are thosewhose referent is the discourse topic, or somethingassociated with it (though note the qualifications tothis below).
Consider:(2-2) The final years of Henry's reign, as re-corded by the admiring Hall, were givenover to sport and gaiety, though there waslittle of the licentiousness that character-ized the French court.
The athletic con-tests were serious but very popular.Masques, jousts and spectacles followedone another in endless pageantry.
Hebrought to Greenwich a tremendously vi-tal court life, a central importance in thecountry's affairs, and above all, a greatnaval connection.
4In the last sentence, he is quite comprehensible, de-spite the distance back to its referent, because thediscourse topic in all the sentences is Henry's reign.An example of the converse - -  an unexpected pro-noun which is difficult despite recency - -  can be seenin (2-1) above.
Between these two extremes are othercases involving references to aspects of the local topic,changes in topic, syntactic parallelism, and, in topiclessinstances, recency (though the effect of recency de-cays very fast).
I will not describe these here; theinterested reader is referred to Section 2.6.5 ofKantor's dissertation (1977).Kantor then defines the notion of the activatednessof a concept.
This provides a continuum of Conceptgivenness, which contrasts with the simple binarygiven-new distinction usually accepted in linguistics(for example, Chafe 1970).
Kantor also distinguishesactivatedness from the similar "communicative dynam-ism" of the Prague school (Firbas 1964).
Activated-4 From: Hamilton, Olive and Hamilton, Nigel.
Royal Greenwich.Greenwich: The Greenwich Bookshop, 1969.
Quoted by Hallidayand Hasan (1976:14), quoted by Kantor (1977).86 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, Apri l- June 1981Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora Resolutionness is defined in terms of the comprehensibility phe-nomena described above: the more activated a conceptis, the easier it is to understand an anaphoric referenceto it.
Thus activatedness depends upon discourse top-ic, context, and so forth.2.2 The implications of Kantor's workWhat are the ramifications of Kantor's thesis forfocus?
Clearly, the notions of activatedness and focusare very similar, though the latter has not generallybeen thought of as a continuum.
It follows that thefactors Kantor finds relevant for activatedness andcomprehensibility of pronouns are also important forthose of us who would maintain focus in computer-based natural language understanding (NLU) systems;we will have to discover discourse topic and topicshifts, generate pronominalization expectations, and soforth.In other words, if we could dynamically compute(and maintain) the activatedness of each conceptfloating around, we would have a measure for theordering of the focus set by preferability as referent;the referent for any given anaphor would be the mosthighly activated element which passes basic tests fornumber, gender and semantic reasonableness.
And tofind the activatedness of the concepts, we followKantor's pointers (which he himself concedes are verytenuous and difficult) to extract and identify the rele-vant factors from the text.It may be objected that by applying Kantor's in-sights all we have done is produce a mere notationalvariant of our original problem.
This is partly true.One should not gainsay the power of a good notation,however, and what we can buy here even with merenotational variance is the power of Kantor's investiga-tions.
And there is more.
Previously, it has beensuggested that items either are in focus or they aren't,and that at each separate anaphor we need to computea preference ranking of the focus elements for thatanaphor.
What Kantor tells us is that such a rankingexists independently of the actual use of anaphors inthe text, and that we can find the ranking by lookingat things like discourse topic.Some miscellaneous comments on Kantor's work:1.
It can be seen as a generalization albeit a weak-ening of Grosz's (1977a, 1977b, 1978) findings onfocus in task-oriented ialogues (where each sub-taskbecomes the new discourse topic, opening up a newset of possible referents), which are discussed below inSection 3.
(Kantor and Grosz were apparently un-aware of each other's work; neither cites the other.)2.
It provides an explanation for focus problemsthat have previously baffled us.
For example, in Hirst(1977a) I contemplated the problem of the ill-formedness of this text:(2-3) *John left the window and drank the wineon the table.
It was brown and round.I had previously thought this to be due to a syntacticfactor - -  that cross-sentence pronominal reference toan NP in a relative clause or adjectival phrase qualify-ing an NP was not possible.
However, it can also beexplained as a grossly inconsiderate pronoun whichdoes not refer to the topic properly - -  the table occursonly as a descriptor for the wine, and not as a concept"in its own right".
This would be a major restrictionon possible reference to sub-aspects of topics.3.
Like too many other researchers, Kantor makesmany claims about comprehensibility and the degree ofwell-formedness of sentences which others (as he con-cedes) may not agree with.
He uses only himself (andhis friends, sometimes) as an informant, and then onlyat an intuitive level.
5 Claims as strong and subtle asKantor's cry out for empirical testing.63.
Focus of attention in task-oriented dialoguesBarbara Grosz (1977a, 1977b, 1978) studied themaintenance of the focus of attention in task-orienteddialogues and its effect on the resolution of definitereference, as part of SRI's speech understanding sys-tem project (Walker 1978).
By a task-oriented ia-logue is meant one which has some single major well-defined task as its goal.
For example, Grosz collectedand studied dialogues in which an expert guides anapprentice in the assembly of an air compressor.
Shefound that the structure of such dialogues parallels thestructure of the task.
That is, just as the major task isdivided into several well-defined sub-tasks, and theseperhaps into sub-sub-tasks and so on, the dialogue islikewise divided into sub-dialogues, ub-sub-dialogues,etc, 7 each corresponding to a task component, much asa well-structured Algol program is composed of blockswithin blocks within blocks.
As the dialogue progress-es, each sub-dialogue in turn is performed in a strictdepth-first order corresponding to the order of sub-task performance in the task goal (though note thatsome sub-tasks may not be ordered with respect to5 For a discussion of the problem of idiosyncrat ic well-formedness judgments, and a suggested solution, see Sections 4.2and 7.3 of Hirst (1981).6 Kantor tells me that he hopes to test some of his assertionsby observing the eye movements of readers of considerate andinconsiderate t xts, to find out if inconsiderate t xts actually makereaders physically search back for a referent.7 Below I will use the prefix sub-  generical ly to includesub-sub-sub-  .
.
.
to an indefinite level.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April- June 1981 87Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora Resolutionothers).
As we will see, this dialogue structure can beexploited in reference resolution.Grosz's aim was to find ways of determining andrepresenting the focus of attention of a discourse - -that is, roughly speaking, its global theme and thethings associated therewith - -  as a means for con-straining the knowledge an NLU system needs to bringto bear in understanding discourse.
In other words,the focus of attention is that knowledge which is rele-vant at a given point in a text for comprehension ofthe text.
8 Grosz claims that antecedents for definitereference can be found in the focus of attention.
Thatis, the focus of attention is a superset of focus in oursense, the set of referable concepts (in this case defi-nite reference, not just anaphoric reference).
More-over, no element in the focus of attention is excludedfrom being a candidate antecedent for a definite NP.Grosz thereby implies that all items in the focus ofattention can be referred to, and that hence the twosenses of the word focus are actually identical.3.1 Representing and searching focusIn Grosz's representation, which uses a partit ionedsemantic net formalism (Hendrix 1975, 1978), anexplicit focus corresponds to a sub-dialogue, and in-cludes, for each concept in it, type information aboutthat concept and any situation in which that conceptparticipates.
For each item in the explicit focus, thereis an associated implicit focus, which includes subpartsof objects in explicit focus, subevents of events inexplicit focus, and participants in those subevents.The implicit focus attempts to account for reference toitems that have a close semantic distance to items infocus, or which have a close enough relationship toitems in focus to be able to be referred to.
The im-plicit focus is also used in detecting focus shifts(discussed below).Then, at any given point in a text, antecedents ofdefinite non-pronominal NPs can be found by search-ing through the explicit and implicit focus for a matchfor the reference.
After checking the other non-pronominal NPs in the same sentence to see if thereference is intrasentential, the currently active explicitfocus (the focus corresponding to the present sub-dialogue) is searched, and then if that search is notsuccessful, the other currently open focus spaces (thatis, those corresponding to sub-dialogues that the pres-ent sub-dialogue is contained in) are searched in order,back up to the top of the tree.
As part of the searchthe implicit focus associated with each explicit focus ischecked, as are subset relations, so that if a novel, say,8 In her later work (Grosz 1978), Grosz emphasizes focusing asan active process carried out by dialogue participants.is in focus, it could be referred to as the book.
If thereis still no success after this, one then checks whetherthe NP refers to a single unique concept (such as thesun), contains new information (such as the red coat,when a coat is in focus, but not yet known to be red),or refers to an item in implicit focus.A similar search method could be used for pro-nouns.
However,  since pronouns carry much less in-formation than other definite NPs, more inference isrequired by the reference matching process to disam-biguate many syntactically ambiguous pronouns, and itwould be necessary to search focus exhaustively, com-paring the reasonableness of candidate referents, rath-er than stopping at the first plausible one.
In addition,other constraints on pronoun reference, such as local(rather than global) theme, and default referent, wouldalso need to be taken into account; Grosz's  mecha-nisms do not do this.
However,  Grosz does show howa partit ioned network structure can be used to resolvecertain types of ellipsis by means of syntactic andsemantic pattern matching against the immediatelypreceding utterance, which may itself have been ex-panded from an elliptical expression.
She leaves openfor future research most of the problems in relatingpronouns to focus.3.2 Maintaining focusGiven this approach, one is then faced with theproblem of deciding what the focus is at a given pointin the discourse.
For highly constrained task-orienteddialogues such as those Grosz considered, the questionof an initial focus does not arise; it is, by definition,the overall task in question.
The other component ofthe problem, handling changes and shifts in the focus,is attacked by Grosz in a top-down manner using thetask structure as a guide.A shift in focus can be indicated explicitly by anutterance, such as:(3-1) Well, the reciprocating afterburner nozzlespeed control is assembled.
Next, it mustbe fitted above the preburner swivel hosecover guard cooling fin mounting rack.In this case, the reciprocating afterburner nozzle speedcontrol assembly sub-task and its corresponding sub-dialogue and focus are closed, and new ones areopened for the reciprocating afterburner nozzle speedcontrol fitting, dominated by the same open sub-tasks/sub-d ia logues/ focuses in their respective treesthat dominated the old ones.
If however the new sub-task were a sub-task of the old one, then the old onewould not be closed, but the new one added to thehierarchy below it as the new active focus space.
Thenewly created focus space initially contains only those88 American Journal  of Computat ional  Linguistics, Vo lume 7, Number 2, Apri l - June 1981Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora Resolutionitems referred to in the utterance, and those objectsassociated with the current sub-task.
(Being able tobring in the associated objects at this time is, ofcourse, the crucial point on which the whole systemrelies.)
As subsequent non-shift-causing utterancescome in, their new information is added to the activefocus space.Usually, of course, speakers are not as helpful as in(3-1), and it is necessary to look for various clues toshifts in focus.
For Grosz, the clues are definite NPs.If a definite NP from an utterance cannot be matchedin focus, then this is a clue that the focus has shifted,and it is necessary to search for the new focus.
If theantecedent of a definite NP is in the current implicitfocus, this is a clue that a sub-task associated with thisitem is being opened.
If the task structure is beingfollowed, then the new focus will reflect the openingor closing of a sub-task.Shifting cannot be done until a whole utterance isconsidered, because clues may conflict, or the meaningof the utterance may contraindicate the posited shift.In p~rticular, recall that the task structure is only aguide, and does not define the dialogue structure abso-lutely.
For example, the focus may shift to a problemassociated with the current sub-task with a questionlike this:(3-2) Should I use the box-end ratchet wrenchto do that?This does not imply a shift to the next sub-task requir-ing a box-end ratchet wrench (assuming that the cur-rent task doesn't require one) (cf Grosz 1977b:105).We can see here that the problem of the circularityof language comprehension looms dangerously: todetermine the focus one must resolve the references,and to resolve the references, one must know the fo-cus.
In Grosz's work, the strong constraints of thestructure of task-oriented ialogues provide a toehold.Whether generalization to the case of discourse withother structures, or with no particular structure, ispossible is unclear, as it may not be possible to deter-mine so nicely what the knowledge associated with anynew focus is.
(See however my remarks in Section 2.2above on the relationship between Grosz's work andthat of Kantor, and Section 6 on approaches whichattempt o exploit local discourse structure.
)In addition, Grosz's mechanisms are limited in theirability to resolve anaphora that require inference orare intersentential (or both).
The assumption thatglobal focus of attention equals all and only possiblereferents (except where the focus shifts), while per-haps not unreasonable in task-oriented omains, isprobably untrue in general.
For example, it is unclearthat such mechanisms could handle the effects of localas opposed to global theme that exclude the table fromthe focus for almost all speakers in (2-3).
Similarly,could the level of world knowledge and inference re-quired to resolve the different referents of she in (3-3)and (3-4) be integrated into the partitioned semanticnet formalism?
(3-3) When Nadia visited Sue for dinner,she ate sukiyaki au gratin.
(3-4) When Nadia visited Sue for dinner,she served sukiyaki au gratin.Could entities evoked by, but not explicit in, a text ofonly moderate structure be identified and instantiatedin focus?
Grosz did not address these issues (nor didshe need to for her immediate goals), but they wouldneed to be resolved in any attempt to generalize herapproach.
(Some other related problems, includingthose of focus shifting, are discussed in Grosz 1978.
)Grosz's contribution was to demonstrate the role ofdiscourse structure in the identification of theme, rele-vant world knowledge and the resolution of reference.We now turn to another system which aspires to simi-lar goals, but in a more general context.4.
Focus in the PAL systemThe PAL personal assistant program (Bullwinkle1977a) is a system designed to accept natural anguagerequests for scheduling activities.
A typical request(from Bullwinkle 1977b:44) is:(4-1) I want to schedule a meeting with Ira.
Itshould be at 3 pm tomorrow.
We canmeet in Bruce's office.The section of PAL that deals with discourse prag-matics and reference was developed by Candace Sid-ner \[Bullwinkle\] (Bullwinkle 1977b; Sidner 1978a).Like Grosz's system, PAL attempts to find a focus ofattention in its knowledge structures to use as a focusfor reference resolution.
Sidner sees the focus asequivalent o the discourse topic; in fact in Bullwinkle(1977b) the word topic is used instead of focus.There are three major differences from Grosz'ssystem:1.
PAL does not rely heavily on discoursestructures.2.
Knowledge is represented in frames.3.
Focus selection and shifting are handled ata more superficial level.I will discuss each difference in turn.4.1 PAL's approach to discourseBecause a request to PAL need not have the rigidstructure of one of Grosz's task-oriented ialogues,PAL does not use discourse structure to the same ex-tent, instead relying on more general ocal cues.
How-ever, as we shall see below, in focus selection andAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981 89Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora Resolutionshift ing, Sidner was forced to use ad hoc rules basedon observat ions  of typical  requests to PAL.4.2 The  f rame as focusThe representat ion  of knowledge in PAL  is basedon frames,  and its imp lementat ion  uses the FRL  f ramerepresentat ion  language (actua l ly  a d ia lect  of L ISP)deve loped by Rober ts  and Go ldste in  (1977a,  1977b).In PAL ,  the f rame cor responds  to Grosz ' s  focusspace.
Fo l lowing Rosenberg 's  (1976, 1977) work ondiscourse structure and frames, the antecedent  for adef in i te  NP is f irst assumed to be e i ther  the f rameitself, or  one of its slots.
So, for example,  in (4-2) :(4-2)  I want  to have a meet ing with Ross (1).
Itshould be at three pm.
The locat ion willbe the depar tment  lounge.
P lease tel lRoss(2).it refers  to the MEETING f rame (not to the text  ameeting) which prov ides  the context  for the wholed iscourse;  the location refers  to the LOCATION slotthat  the MEETING f rame presumably  has (thus theCLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH re lat ion (Hirst  1981) ishand led) ,  and Ross (e) to the contents  9 of theCO-MEETER slot, previous ly  given as Ross.If the antecedent  cannot  be found in the frame, itis assumed to be either outs ide the discourse or infer-red.
In (4-2) ,  PAL  would search its database  to f indreferents  for Ross (1) and the department lounge.
Per-sonal  names are resolved with a special  module thatknows about  the semant ics  of names  (Bul lwink le1977b:48) .
PAL  carr ies out  database  searches  forre ferences  l ike the department lounge apparent ly  bysearching a h ierarchy of f rames,  looking at the f ramesin the slots of the current  focus, and then in the slotsof these frames,  and so on (S idner 1978a:211) ,  thoughit is not apparent  why this should useful ly constra inthe search in the above example.
109 Sidner only speaks of reference to slots (1978a:211), withoutsaying whether she means the slot itself or its contents; it seemsreasonable to assume, as I have done here, that she actually meansboth.10 In fact there is no need in this particular example for areferent at all.
The personal assistant need only treat the departmentlounge as a piece of text, presumably meaningful to both the speak-er and Ross, denoting the meeting location.
A human might do thiswhen passing on a message he or she didn't understand:(i) Ross asked me to tell you to meet him inthe arboretum, whatever the beck that is.On the other hand, an explicit antecedent would be needed if PALhad been asked, say, to deliver coffee to the meeting in the depart-ment lounge.
Knowing when to be satisfied with ignorance is adifficult problem which Sidner does not consider, preferring the safecourse of always requiring an antecedent.4.3 Focus se lec t ionIn PAL ,  the init ial  focus is the first NP fo l lowingthe main verb of the first sentence of the discourse - -usually, the ob ject  of the sentence - -  or, if there is nosuch NP, then the subject  of that  sentence.
This is ashor t -cut  method,  which seems to be suf f ic ient  forrequests to PAL ,  but  which Sidner readi ly  admits isinadequate  for the general  case (S idner 1978a:209) .
Iwill br ief ly  review some of the problems.Charn iak  (1978)  has shown that  the f rame-select ion prob lem (which is here ident ical  to the init ialfocus se lect ion prob lem,  since the focus is just  thef rame represent ing the theme of the d iscourse)  is infact ext remely  diff icult,  and is not  in the most  generalcase amenab le  to so lut ion by ei ther str ict ly top -downor bot tom-up methods.
S idner 's  assumpt ion  that there levant  f rame is given by an expl ic i t ly  ment ioned NPis also a source of t rouble,  even in the examples  shequotes,  such as these two (S idner 1978b:92) :(4-3)  I was dr iv ing along th__ S f reeway the otherday.
Suddenly  the engine began to makea funny noise.
(4-4)  I went  to a new restaurant  with Sam.
Thewaitress was nasty.
The food was great.
(Under l in ing  ind icates  what  S idner  c la ims is the fo-cus.)
In (4-3) ,  S idner posits a chain of  in ferences toget f rom the engine to the focus, the FREEWAY frame.This is more  complex  than is necessary ;  if thef rame/ focus  were DRIVING (with its LOCATION slotconta in ing the FREEWAY f rame) ,  then the path f romthe frame to the engine is shorter  and the whole ar-rangement  seems more natural .
Thus we see that fo-cus need not  be based on an NP at all.In (4-4) ,  our p rob lem is what  to do with Sam, whocould be re ferenced in a subsequent  sentence.
It isnecessary  to in tegrate  Sam into the RESTAURANTf rame/ focus ,  since c lear ly he should not  be cons ideredexterna l  to the d iscourse and sought  in the database.Whi le the RESTAURANT f rame may indeed conta in  aCOMPANION slot for Sam to sit in, it is c lear that  thef irst sentence  could  have been I went <anywhere atall> with Sam, requir ing that  any frame referr ing tosometh ing  occupy ing  a locat ion  must  have aCOMPANION slot.
This is c lear ly undes i rable .
Butthe RESTAURANT f rame is involved in (4-4) ;  o ther -wise the waitress and the food would be externa l  to thediscourse.
A natura l  so lut ion is that  the f rame/ focusof  (4-4)  is actua l ly  the GOING-SOMEWHERE f rame(with Sam in its COMPANION s lot) ,  conta in ing  theRESTAURANT f rame in its PLACE slot, with bothf rames together  taken as the focus.
S idner does notcons ider  mechanisms for a mul t i - f rame focus.90 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora ResolutionIt is, of course,  not  a lways true that thef rame/ focus  is explicit.
Charn iak  (1978)  points  outthat (4-5)  is somehow suff ic ient  to invoke theMAGICIAN frame:(4-5)  The woman waved as the man on stagesawed her in half.
(See also Charn iak  (1981) for more on frame invoca-t ion problems.
)Focus  shift ing in PAL  is restr icted:  the only shiftspermi t ted  are to and f rom sub-aspects  of the presentfocus (Sidner 1978a:209) .
Old topics are s tacked forpossib le later return.
This is very similar to Grosz ' sopen- focus  hierarchy.
It is unclear  whether  there is apredict ive aspect  to PAL 's  focus-sh i f t  mechan ism,  11but the basic idea seems to be that any new phrase ina sentence is p icked as a potent ia l  new focus.
If in asubsequent  sentence an anaphor ic  re ference  is a se-mant ica l ly  acceptab le  core ferent  for that  potent ia lfocus, then a shift to that focus is ipso facto ind icated(Sidner 1978a:209) .
P resumably  this check is doneafter  a check of focus has fai led, but before  any data-base search.
A potent ia l  focus has a l imited life span,and is d ropped if not shi f ted to by the end of the sec-ond sentence fo l lowing the one in which it occurred.An  example (S idner 1978a:209) :(4-6)  I want  to schedule a meet ing with George,J im, Steve and Mike.
We can meet in myoffice.
I t 's  k ind of small,  but the meet ingwon ' t  last long anyway.
(4-7)  I want  to schedule a meet ing with George,J im, Steve and Mike.
We can meet in myoffice.
It won ' t  take more than 20 min-utes.In the second sentence my office is ident i f ied as a po-tent ial  focus, and it, in the first reading of the thirdsentence,  as an acceptab le  core ferent  to my officeconf i rms the shift.
In the second reading,  it cou ldn ' tbe my office, so no shift occurs.
The acceptab i l i tydecis ion is based on select ional  and case- l ike restr ic-tions.Whi le perhaps adequate  for PAL ,  this mechanismis, of course,  not  suff ic ient for the general  case, wherea true shift, as opposed  to an expans ion upon a previ-l l On page 209 of Sidner (1978a) we are told: "Focus shiftscannot be predicted; they are detectable only after they occur".Yet on the following page, Sidner says: "Sentences appearing inmid-discourse are assumed to be about the focus until the corefer-ence module predicts a focus shift .
.
.
.
Once an implicit focusrelation is established, the module can go onto \[sic\] predictions offocus shift".
My interpretation f these remarks is that one cannotbe certain that the next sentence will shift focus, but one can notewhen a shift might happen, requiring later checking to confirm ordisconfirm the shift.ously ment ioned point ,  may occur.
This is exempl i f iedby many of the shifts in Grosz ' s  task -or iented  dia-logues.Another  prob lem arising f rom this shift mechanismis that two di f ferent  focus shifts may be ind icated atthe same t ime, but  the mechan ism has no way  tochoose between them.
For  example:(4-8)  Schedule  a meet ing  of  t..h_e Exper imenta lTheo logy  Research  Group,  and tell RossAndrews  about  it too.
I 'd  l ike him tohear  about  the deocommunicat ion  workthat they ' re  doing.Each of the two under l ined NPs in the first sentencewould be p icked as a potent ia l  focus.
Since each isp ronomina l ly  re ferenced in the second sentence,  themechanism would be confused as to where to shift thefocus.
(P resumably  Ross Andrews would be the correctchoice here.
)4.4 Conc lus ionsThe shortcomings of S idner 's  work  are mainly  at-t r ibutable  to two causes: her avo idance of relying onthe highly const ra ined iscourse structures that Groszused, and the l imited connect iv i ty  of f rame systems,compared  to Grosz ' s  semant ic  nets.
tz With  respect  tothe former point,  perhaps S idner 's  main contr ibut ionhas been to show the dif f icult ies and pitfal ls that  lie inwait  for anyone at tempt ing  to general ize Grosz ' s  work,even to the extent  that PAL  does.5.
Webber ' s  formal ismIn the preced ing  sect ions  of  this paper ,  we sawapproaches  to anaphor  reso lut ion  that  were main lytop-down in that  they  re l ied on a not ion  of  themeand/or  focus of a t tent ion  to guide the se lect ion offocus (a l though theme determinat ion  may have beenbot tom-up) .
An  a l ternat ive approach  has been sug-gested by Bonnie \ [Nash- \ ]Webber  (Nash-Webber  andRe i ter  1977; Webber  1978a, 1978b),  wherein a set ofrules is appl ied to a log ica l - form representat ion  of thetext  to der ive the set of ent i t ies that that  text makesavai lable for subsequent  reference.
Webber ' s  formal -ism at tacks  some prob lems caused by quant i f i ca t ionthat have not  otherwise been cons idered by workers  inNLU,12 In her thesis (1979) \[which was not available to me whenthis paper was first written\], Sidner subsequently proposed the useof an association etwork instead of frames, and presented moresophisticated focus selection and shifting algorithms.
I have empha-sized her earlier work here, as it has received much wider circula-tion.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981 91Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anapbora ResolutionI can only give the flavor of Webber's formalismhere, and I shall have to assume some familiarity withlogical forms.
Readers who want more details shouldsee her thesis (1978a); readers who find my expositionmystifying should not worry unduly - -  the fault isprobably mine - -  but should turn to the thesis forillumination.In Webber's formalism, it is assumed that an inputsentence is first converted to a parse tree, and then,by some semantic interpretation process, to an extend-ed restricted-quantification predicate calculus represen-tation.
It is during this second conversion that ana-phor resolution takes place.
When the final represent-ation, which we shall simply call a logical form, is com-plete, certain rules are applied to it to generate the setof referable entities and descriptions that the sentenceevokes.
Webber considers three types of antecedentsthose for definite pronouns, those forone-anaphora, 13 and those for verb phrase ellipsis.Each type has its own set of rules; we will briefly lookat the first.
(The others are discussed in Sections5.4.2 and 5.4.3 of Hirst 1981.
)5.1 Definite pronouns'The antecedents for def in i tepronouns are invokingdescriptions (IDs); these are in effect focus elementsthat are explicit in the text.
IDs are derived from thelogical form representation of a sentence by a set ofrules that attempt o take into account factors, such asNP definiteness or references to sets, that affect whatantecedents are evoked by a text.
There are six ofthese ID-rules; 14 which one applies depends on thestructural description of the logical form.Here is one of Webber 's  examples (1978a:64):(5-1) Wendy bought a crayon.This has this representation:(5-2) Ox:Crayon) .
Bought Wendy,xNow, one of the ID-rules says that any sentence Swhose representation is of this form:(5-3) (ax:C).
Fxwhere C is an arbitrary predicate on individuals andFx an arbitrary open sentence in which x is free,evokes an entity whose representation is of this form:13 One-anaphors are those such as those, one, and some uses of itthat refer to a description rather than a specific entity.
An exam-ple:(i) Wendy didn't give either boy a green tie-dyedT-shirt, but she gave Sue a red one.14 Webber regards her rules only as a preliminary step towardsa complete set that considers all relevant factors.
She discussessome of the remaining problems, such as negation, in Webber(1978a:81-88).
(5-4) ej ix: Cx & Fx & evoke S ,xwhere ej is an arbitrary label assigned to the entity andis the definite operator.
Hence, starting at the left of(5-2), we obtain this representation for the crayon of(5-1):(5-5) e 1 ,x: Crayon x & Bought Wendy,x &evoke (5-1),xwhich may be interpreted as e I is the crayon mentionedin sentence (5-1) that Wendy bought.
Similarly we willobtain a representation of e 2, Wendy, which is thensubstituted for Wendy in (5-5) after some matchingprocess has determined the identity of the two.In this next, more complex example (Webber1978a:73), we see how quantification is handled:(5-6) Each boy gave each girl a peach.
(?x:Boy) (Vy:Girl) (~:Peach)  .
Gave x ,y ,gThis matches the following structural description(where Oj stands for the quantifier (Vxj e ej), where ejis an earlier evoked discourse entity, and !
is the leftboundary of a clause):(5-7) lO 1 .
.
.
Qn (3y:C) .
Fyand hence evokes an ID of this form:(5 -8 )  e i ty: maxset(X(u:C)\[(3x 1 ?
el)(~ix n ?
en) .
Fu & evoke S,u\]) y(For any one-place predicate P, maxset(P)y is true ifand only if y is the set of all items u such that Puholds.)
Another rule has already given us:(5-9) e 1 tx: maxset(Boy) x"the set of all boys"e 2 tx: maxset(Girl)  x"the set of all girls"and so (5-8) is instantiated as:(5-10) e 3 ~z: maxset(A(u:Peach) \[(ax ?
el) (3y?
e2) .
Gave x,y,u & evoke (5-6),y\]) z"the set of peaches, each one ofwhich is linked to (5-6) by virtue ofsome member of e 1 giving it to somemember of e2"Although such rules could (in principle) be used togenerate all IDs (explicit focus elements) that a sen-tence evokes, Webber does not commit herself to suchan approach, instead allowing for the possibil ity ofgenerating IDs only when they are needed, dependingon subsequent information such as speaker's perspec-tive.
She also suggests the possibility of "vague, tem-porary" IDs for interim use (1978a:67).There is a problem here with intrasentential ana-phora, since it is assumed that a sentence's anaphorsare resolved before ID rules are applied to find whatmay be the antecedents necessary for that resolution.Webber proposes that known syntactic and selectional92 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April- June 1981Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora Resolutionconstraints may help in this conflict, but this is notalways sufficient.
For example:(5-11) Marybought  each girl a cotton T-shirt,but none of them were the style de rigeurin high schools.The IDs for both the set of girls and the set of T-shirtsare needed to resolve them, but them needs to be re-solved before the IDs are generated.
In this particularexample, the clear solution is to work a clause at atime rather than at a sentence level.
However, this isnot always an adequate solution, as (5-12) shows:(5-12) The rebel students annoyed the teachersgreatly, and by the end of the week noneof the faculty were willing to go to theirclasses.In this ambiguous sentence, one possible antecedentfor their, the faculty, occurs in the same clause as theanaphor.
Thus neither strictly intraclausal nor strictlyinterclausal methods are appropriate.
Webber is awareof this problem (1978a:48), and believes that it suffic-es that such information as is available be used to ruleout impossible choices; the use of vague temporaryIDs then allows the anaphor to be resolved.5.2 Conclus ionsIt remains to discuss the strengths and weaknessesof Webber's approach, and she herself (in contradis-tinction to some other workers) is as quick to pointout the latter as the former.
The reader is thereforereferred to her thesis (1978a) for this.
However, Iwill make some global comments on the importantaspects relevant here.Webber's main contributions, as I see them, are asfollows:1.
The anaphor resolution problem is ap-proached from the point of view of deter-mining what an adequate representationwould be, rather than trying to fit (tostraitjacket?)
a resolution mechanism intosome pre-existing and perhaps arbitrarilychosen representation; and the criteria ofadequacy for the representation are rigor-ously enumerated.2.
A formalism in which it is possible tocompute focus elements as they are need-ed, rather than having them sitting roundin advance (as in Grosz 's  system), per-haps never to be used, is provided (butcompare my further remarks below).3.
Webber brings to NLU anaphora researchthe formality and rigor of logic, somethingthat has been previously almost unseen.4.
Previously ignored problems of quantifica-tion are dealt with.5.
The formalism itself is an important con-tribution.The shortcomings, as I see them, are as follows:1.
The formalism relies very much on ante-cedents being in the text.
Entities evokedby, but not explicit in, the text cannot ingeneral be adequately handled (in con-trast to Grosz's system).2.
The formalism is not related to discoursestructure.
So, for example, it containsnothing to discourage the use of the tableas the antecedent in (2-3).
It remains tobe seen if discourse pragmatics can beadequately integrated with the formalismor otherwise accounted for in a systemusing the formalism.3.
Intrasentential  and intraclausal anaphoraare not adequately dealt with.4.
Webber does not relate her discussions ofrepresentational adequacy to currentlypopular knowledge representations.
Ifframes, for example, are truly inadequatewe would like to have some watertightproof of this before abandoning currentNLU projects attempting to use frames.It will be noticed that contribution 2 and shortcoming1 are actually two sides of the same coin m it is staticpre-available knowledge that allows non-textual enti-ties to be easily found - -  and clearly a synthesis willbe necessary here.6.
Discourse-cohes ion approaches to anaphoraresolut ionAnother approach to coreference resolution at-tempts to exploit local discourse cohesion, building arepresentation of the discourse with which referencescan be resolved.
This approach has been taken by(inter alia) Klappholz and Lockman (1977; Lockman1978).
By using only cues to the discourse structureat the sentence level or lower, one avoids the need tosearch for referents in pre-determined dialogue modelssuch as those of Grosz 's  task-oriented ialogues, orrigidly predefined knowledge structures uch as scripts(Schank and Abelson 1977) and frames (Minsky1975), which Klappholz and Lockman,  for example,call overweight structures that inflexibly dominateprocessing of text.
Klappholz and Lockman empha-size that the structure through which reference is re-solved must be dynamically built up as the text isprocessed; frames or scripts could assist in this build-ing, but cannot, however, be reliably used for refer-American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981 93Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora Resolutionence resolution, because deviations by the text fromthe pre-defined structure will cause errors.The basis of this approach is that there is a stronginterrelationship between coreference and the cohesiveties in a discourse that make it coherent.
By determin-ing what the cohesive ties in a discourse are, one canput each new sentence or clause, as it comes in, intothe appropriate place in a growing structure that repre-sents the discourse.
This structure can then be used asa focus to search for coreference antecedents, sincenot only do coherently connected sentences tend torefer to the same things, but knowledge of the cohe-sion relation can provide additional reference resolu-tion restraints.
Hobbs (1979) in particular sees theproblem of coreference resolution as being automati-cally solved in the process of discovering the coher-ence relations in a text.
(An example of this will begiven in Section 6.2.)
Conversely, it is frequently help-ful or necessary to resolve coreference relations inorder to discover the coherence relations.
This is nota vicious circle, claims Hobbs, but a spiral staircase.In our discussion below, we will cover four issues:1. deciding on a set of possible coherencerelations;2. detecting them when they occur in a text;3. using the coherence relations to build afocus structure; and4.
searching for referents in the structure.6.1 Coherence relationsThe first thing required by this approach is a com-plete and computable set of the coherence relationsthat may obtain between sentences and/or  clauses.Various sets have been suggested by many people,including Eisenstadt (1976), Phillips (1977), Pitkin(1977a, 1977b), Hirst (1977b, 1978), Lockman(1978), Hobbs (1978, 1979) and Reichman (1978).
15None of these sets fulfill all desiderata; and while Hal-liday and Hasan (1976) provide an extensive analysisof cohesion, it does not fit within our computationalframework of coherence relations, and those, such asHobbs, Lockman, Eisenstadt and Hirst, who empha-size computabil ity, provide sets insufficient, I believe,to capture all the semantic subtleties of discourse co-hesion.
Nevertheless, the works cited above undoub-tedly serve as a useful starting point for developmentof this area.To illustrate what a very preliminary set of cohe-sion relations could look like, I will briefly present aset abstracted from the various sets of Eisenstadt,Hirst, Hobbs, Lockman and Phillips (but not faithfulto any one of these).The set contains two basic classes of coherencerelations: expansion or elaboration on an entity, con-cept or event in the discourse, and temporal continua-tion or time flow.
Expansion includes relations likeEFFECT, CAUSE, SYLLOGISM, ELABORATION,CONTRAST, PARALLEL and EXEMPLIFICATION.
Inthe following examples, "u"  is used to indicate thepoint where the cohesive tie illustrated is acting:(6-1) \[ELABORATION\] To gain access to thelatch-housing, remove the control panelcover.
?
Undo both screws and rock itgently until it snaps out from the mount-ing bracket.
(6-2) \[CONTRAST\] The hoary marmot likes tobe scratched behind the ears by its mate,?
while in the lesser dormouse, nuzzlingis the primary behavior promoting pair-bonding.
(6-3) \[EFFECT\] Ross pulled out the bottommodule.
?
The entire structure collapsed.
(6-4) \[CAUSE\] Ross scratched his head furi-ously.
?
The new Hoary  Marmot  TMshampoo that he used had made it itchunbearably.
(6-5) \[SYLLOGISM\] Nadia goes to the movieswith Ross on Fridays.
Today's  Friday, ?so I guess she'll be going to the movies.
(6-6) \[PARALLEL\] Nearly all our best men aredead!
Carlyle, Tennyson, Browning,George Eliot?
- -  ?
I 'm not feeling verywell myself!16(6-7) \[EXEMPLIFICATION\] Many of our staffare keen amateur ornithologists.
?
Nadiahas written a book on the Canadian trill-er, and Daryel once missed a board meet-ing because he was high up a tree nearGundaroo, watching the hatching of somerare red-crested snipes.
(One may disagree with my classification of some ofthe relations above; the boundaries between categoriesare yet ill-defined, and it is to be expected that somepeople's intuitions will differ from mine.
)15 Reichman's coherence relations operate at paragraph levelrather than sentence or clause level.16 From: A lament \[cartoon caption\].
Punch, or the Londoncharivari, CIV, 1893, page 210.94 American Journal  of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, Apri l - June 1981Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora ResolutionTemporal flow relations involve some continuationforwards or backwards over time:(6-8) V ICTORIA  - -  A suntanned PrinceCharles arrived here Sunday afternoon, ?and was greeted with a big kiss by a pret-ty English au pair girl.
17(6-9) SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico - -  Travel offi-cials tackled a major job here Sunday tofind new accommodations for 650 passen-gers from the burned Italian cruise linerAngelina Lauro.?
The vessel caught fire Friday whiledocked at Charlotte Amalie in the VirginIslands, but most passengers were ashoreat the time.
18Temporal flow may be treated as a single relation,as Phillips, for example, does, or it may be subdivided,as by Eisenstadt and Hirst, into categories like TIMESTEP, FLASHBACK, FLASHFORWARD, TIME EDIT,and so on.
Certainly, time flow in a text may be quitecontorted, as in (6-10) (from Hirst 1978); "m" indi-cates a point where the direction of the time flowchanges:(6-10) Slowly, hesitantly, Ross approached Na-dia.
?
He had waited for this moment formany days.
?
Now he was going to saythe words ?
which he had agonized over?
and in the very room ?
he had oftendreamed about.
?
He gazed lovingly ather soft green eyes.It is not clear, however, to what extent an analysis oftime flow is necessary for anaphor resolution.
I sus-pect that relatively little is necessary - -  less than isrequired for other aspects of discourse understanding.I see relations like those exempli f ied above asprimitives from which more complex relations could bebuilt.
For example, the relation between the two sen-tences of (6-3) above clearly involves FORWARDTIME STEP as well as EFFECT.
I have hypothesizedelsewhere (Hirst 1978) the possibility of constructinga small set of discourse relations (with cardinalityabout twenty or less) from which more complex rela-tions may be built up by simple combination, and, onehopes, in such a way that the effects of relationR i+R 2 would be the sum of the individual effects ofrelations R 1 and R 2.
Rules for permitted combina-tions would be needed; for example, FORWARD TIMESTEP could combine with EFFECT, but not withBACKWARD TIME STEP.17 From: The Vancouver xpress, 2 April 1979, page A1.18 From: The Vancouver xpress, 2 April 1979, page A5.What would the formal definition of a coherencerelation be like?
Here is Hobbs's (1979:73) definitionof ELABORATION: Sentence S1 is an ELABORATIONof sentence SO if some proposition P follows from theassertions of both S O and $1, but S 1 contains a prop-erty of one of the elements of P that is not in S 0.
Theexample in the next section will clarify this.6.2 An  example  of anaphor  resolut ion using a?
coherence  relat ionIt is appropriate at this stage to give an example ofthe use of coherence relations in the resolution ofanaphors.
I will present an outline of one of Hobbs's;for the fine details I have omitted, see Hobbs(1979:78-80).
The text is this:(6-11) John can open Bill's safe.
He knows thecombination.We want an NLU system to recognize the cohesionrelation operating here, namely ELABORATION, andidentify he as John and the combination as that of Bill'ssafe.
We assume that in the world knowledge that thesystem has are various axioms and rules of inferencedealing with such matters as what combinations ofsafes are and knowledge about doing things.
Then,from the first sentence of (6-11), which we representas (6-12):(6-12) can (John, open (Bill's-safe))(we omit the details of the representation of Bill'ssafe), we can infer:(6-13) know (John, cause (do (John, a),open (Bill's-safe)))"John knows that he can perform an ac-tion a that will cause Bill's-safe to beopen"From the second sentence of (6-11), namely:(6-14) know (he, combination (comb, y))"someone, he, knows the combinationcomb to something, y"we can infer, using knowledge about combinations:(6-15) know (he, cause (dial (comb,y), open (y)))"he knows that by causing the dialing ofcomb on y, the state in which y is openwill be brought about"Recognizing that (6-13) and (6-15) are nearly identi-cal, and assuming that some coherence relation doeshold, we can identify he with John, y with Bill's-safe,and the definition of the ELABORATION relation issatisfied.
In the process, the required referents werefound.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981 95Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora Resolution6.3 Lockman's  contextua l  re ference resolut iona lgor i thmGiven a set of discourse cohesion relations, howmay their use in a text be computationally recognizedand employed to build a structure that represents thediscourse and can be used as a focus for referenceresolution?
Only Hobbs (1978, 1979) and Lockman(1978; Klappholz and Lockman 1977) seem to haveconsidered these aspects of the problem, though Eisen-stadt (1976) discusses some of the requirements inworld knowledge and inference that would be re-quired.
In this section we look at Lockman's work.Lockman does not separate the three processes ofrecognizing cohesion, resolving references and buildingthe representation of the discourse.
Rather, as befitssuch interrelated processes, all three are carried out atthe same time.
His contextual reference resolutionalgorithm (CRRA) works as follows:The structure to be built is a tree, initially null, ofwhich each node is a sentence and each edge a coher-ence relation.
As each new sentence comes in, theCRRA tries to find the right node of the tree to attachit to, starting at the leaf that is the previous sentenceand working back up the tree in a specified searchorder (discussed below) until a connection is indicated.Lockman assumes the existence of a judgment mecha-nism that generates and tests hypotheses as to how thenew sentence may be feasibly connected to the nodebeing tested.
The first hypothesis whose likelihoodexceeds a certain threshold is chosen.The hypotheses consider both the coherence andthe coreference relations that may obtain.
Each mem-ber of the set of coherence relations is hypothesized,and for each one, all possible coreference relationsbetween the conceptual tokens of the new sentenceand tokens in the node under consideration (or nearbyit in the tree) are posited.
(The search for tokens goesback as far as necessary in the tree until suitable to-kens are found for all unfulfilled definite noun phras-es.)
The hypotheses are considered in parallel; if noneare judged sufficiently likely, the next node or set ofnodes will be considered for feasible connection to thecurrent sentence.The search order is as follows: First the immediatecontext, the previous sentence, is tried.
If no feasibleconnection is found, then the immediate ancestor ofthis node, and all its other descendants, are tried inparallel.
If the algorithm is still unsuccessful, the im-mediate ancestor of the immediate ancestor, and thedescendants thereof, are tried, and so on up the tree.If a test of several nodes in parallel yields more thanone acceptable node, the one nearest the immediatecontext is chosen.If the current sentence is not a simple sentence, itis not broken into clauses dealt with individually, butrather converted to a small sub-tree, reflecting thesemantic relationship between the clauses.
The con-version is based simply upon a table look-up indexedon the structure of the parse tree of the sentence.One of the nodes is designated by the table look-up asthe head node, and the sub-tree is attached to thepre-existing context tree, using the procedure de-scribed above, with the connection occurring at thisnode.
Similarly one (or more) of the nodes is desig-nated as the immediate context, the starting point forthe next search.
(The search will be conducted inparallel if there is more than one immediate contextnode.
)There are some possible problems with Lockman'sapproach.
The first lies in the fact that the structurebuilt grows without limit, and therefore a search in itcould, in theory, run right through an enormous tree.Normally, of course, a feasible connection or desiredreferent will be found fairly quickly, close to the im-mediate context.
However, should the judgmentmechanism fail to spot the correct one, the algorithmmay run a little wild, searching large areas of thestructure needlessly and expensively, possibly lightingon a wrong referent or wrong node for attachment,with no indication that an error has occurred.
In otherwords, Lockman's CRRA places much greater trust inthe judgment mechanism than a system like Grosz'sthat constrains the referent search area - -  more trustthan perhaps should be put in what will necessarily bethe most tentative and unreliable part of the system.Secondly, I am worried about the syntax-basedtable look-up for sub-trees for complex sentences.
Onthe one hand, it would be nice if it were correct, sim-plifying processing.
On the other hand, I cannot butfeel that it is an over-simplification, and that effects ofdiscourse theme cannot reliably be handled in thisway.
However, I have no counterexamples to give,and suggest that this question needs more investiga-tion.The third possible problem, and perhaps the mostserious, concerns the order in which the search for afeasible connection takes place.
Because the firsthypothesis whose likelihood exceeds the threshold isselected, it is possible to miss an even better hypothe-sis further up the tree.
In theory, this could be avoid-ed by doing all tests in parallel, the winning hypothesisbeing judged on both likelihood and closeness to theimmediate context.
In practice, given the ever-growing context tree as discussed above, this wouldnot be feasible, and some way to limit the search areawould be needed.96 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora ResolutionThe fourth problem lies in the judgment  mechanismitself.
Lockman frankly admits that the mechanism,incorporated as a black box in his algorithm, musthave abilities far beyond those of present state-of-the-art inference and judgment  systems.
The problem isthat it is unwise to predicate too much on the natureof this unbui l t  black box, as we do not know yet if itsinput -output  behavior could be as Lockman posits.
Itmay well be that to perform as required, the mecha-nism will need access to in format ion such as the sen-tence fol lowing the current one (in effect, the abil ityto delay a decision), or more informat ion about  theprevious context than the CRRA retains or ever deter-mines; in fact, it may need an entirely di f ferent dis-course structure representat ion  from the tree beingbuilt.
In other words, while it is f ine in theory to de-sign a reference resolver around a black box, in p rac -tice it may be computat iona l ly  more economica l  todesign the reference resolver around a knowledge ofhow the black box actual ly works, exploit ing thatmechanism, rather than stra i t jacket ing the judgmentmodule into its pre-def ined cabinet ;  thus Lockman'swork may be premature.None of these problems are insurmountable .
How-ever it is perhaps a little unfor tunate  that Lockman'swork offers little of immediate use for NLU systems ofthe present day.6.4 Conclus ionsClearly, much work remains to be done if thecoherence/cohes ion  paradigm of NLU is to be viable.Almost all aspects need ref inement.
However,  it is anintuit ively appeal ing paradigm, and it will be interest-ing to see if it can be developed into funct ion ing NLUsystems.7.
EpilogueEach approach examined offers a dif ferent insightinto some aspect or aspects of the use of discoursestructure to resolve anaphora.
So far there has beenno at tempt to integrate these insights into a singlecohesive system or model;  indeed this will be an ex-tremely difficult task.
It should, however, be a mostfruitful one, and is the logical next step in computa-t ional anaphora resolution.AcknowledgementsThis paper was wr i t ten while the author was at theDepartment  of Computer  Science, Univers i ty of BritishColumbia,  Vancouver,  Canada,  and was supported inpart by an Austra l ian Postgraduate Research Award.Richard Rosenberg,  Nadia Talent ,  Barbara Grosz,Bonnie Webber,  Mark Scott Johnson and the anony-mous referees were among the many people whosehelpful comments  improved its quality.ReferencesBullwinkle, Candace Lee.
see also Sidner, Candace Lee.Bullwinkle, Candace Lee (1977a).
The semantic omponent ofPAL: The personal assistant language understanding program.Working paper 141, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massa-chusetts Institute of Technology, March 1977.Bullwinkle, Candace Lee (1977b).
Levels of complexity in dis-course for anaphora disambiguation and speech act interpreta-tion.
\[ 11 Proceedings of the fifth international joint conference onartificial intelligence.
Cambridge, Massachusetts, August 1977,43-49.
\[2\] an earlier version was published as: Memo 413,Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, May 1977.Chafe, Wallace L (1970).
Meaning and the structure of language.The University of Chicago Press, 1970.Charniak, Eugene (1978).
With spoon in hand this must be theeating frame, in: Waltz 1978, 187-193.Charniak, Eugene (1981).
Context recognition in language com-prehension, in: Wendy Grace Lehnert and Martin Ringle(editors).
Knowledge representation for language processingsystems, Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1981\[forthcoming\].Eisenstadt, Marc (1976).
Processing newspaper stories: somethoughts on fighting and stylistics.
Proceedings of  the AISBsummer conference, Society for the Study of Artificial Intelli-gence and the Simulation of Behaviour, July 1976, 104-117.Firbas, Jan (1964).
On defining the theme in functional sentenceanalysis.
Travaux linguistiques de Prague, 1, 1964, 267-280.Grosz, Barbara Jean (1977a).
The representation a d use of focusin a system for understanding dialogs.
\[1\] Proceedings of thefifth international joint conference on artificial intelligence.
Cam-bridge, Massachusetts, August 1977, 67-76.
\[2\] Technical note150, Artificial Intelligence Center, SRI International, June1977.Grosz, Barbara Jean (1977b).
The representation a d use of focusin dialogue understanding.
\[1\] Unpublished PhD thesis, Depart-ment of Computer Science, University of California, Berkeley,June 1977.
\[2\] published, slightly revised, as: Technical note151, SRI International, Artificial Intelligence Center, July 1977.\[3\] a newer revised version appears in: Walker 1978, section 4.Grosz, Barbara Jean (1978).
Focusing in dialog.
\[1\] in: Waltz1978, 96-103.
\[2\] Technical note 166, Artificial IntelligenceCenter, SRI International, July 1978.Halliday, Michael Alexander Kirkwood and Hasan, Ruqaiya (1976).Cohesion in English.
(= Longman English Language Series 9).London: Longman, 1976.Hendrix.
Gary Grant (1975).
Expanding the utility of semanticnetworks through partitioning.
Advance papers of the fourthinternational joint conference on artificial intelligence.
Tblisi,Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, September 1975, 115-121.Hend{ix, Gary Grant (1978).
The representation of semanticknowledge, in: Walker 1978, 121-181.Hirst, Graeme John (1977a).
Focus in reference resolution innatural anguage understanding.
Paper presented at the Lan-guage and Speech Conference, Melbourne, November 1977.Hirst, Graeme John (1977b).
Cohesive discourse transitions andreference resolution: The cinema metaphor and beyond into thetransfinite.
Unpublished manuscript, 20 December 1977.Hirst, Graeme John (1978).
A set of primitives for discoursetransitions.
Unpublishable manuscript, 1February 1978.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981 97Graeme Hirst Discourse-Oriented Anaphora ResolutionHirst, Graeme John (1981).
Anaphora in natural anguage under-standing: a survey.
\[1\] (Lecture notes in computer science), NY:Springer-Verlag, 1981.
\[2\] Technical report 79-2, Departmentof Computer Science, University of British Columbia, Vancou-ver, B.C., Canada, May 1979.Hobbs, Jerry Robert (1978).
Why is discourse coherent?
\[1\]Technical note 176, Artificial Intelligence Center, SRI Interna-tional, 30 November 1978.
\[2\] in: F Neubauer (editor).
Coher-ence in natural anguage texts, 1979.Hobbs, Jerry Robert (1979).
Coherence and coreference.
\[1\]Cognitive Science, 3(1), January-March 1979, 67-90.
\[2\] Tech-nical note 168, Artificial Intelligence Center, SRI International,4 August 1978.Kantor, Robert Neal (1977).
The management and comprehensionof discourse connection by pronouns in English.
PhD thesis,Department of Linguistics, Ohio State University, 1977.Klappholz, A David and Lockman, Abe David (1977).
The use ofdynamically extracted context for anaphoric reference resolu-tion.
Unpublished MS, Department of Electrical Engineeringand Computer Science, Columbia University, New York, Febru-ary 1977.Lockman, Abe David (1978).
Contextual reference resolution \[1\]PhD dissertation, Faculty of Pure Science, Columbia University,May 1978.
\[2\] Technical report DCS-TR-70, Department ofComputer Science, Rutgers University, 1978.Minsky, Marvin Lee (1975).
A framework for representing knowl-edge.
\[1\] in: Patrick Henry Winston (editor).
The psychology ofcomputer vision.
McGraw-Hill, 1975, 211-280.
\[2\] Memo 306,Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, June 1974.
\[3\] a condensed version appears in:Schank and Nash-Webber 1975, 118-130.
\[4\] version 3 alsoappears as: Frame-system theory, in: Philip Nicholas Johnson-Laird and Peter Cathcart Wason (editors).
Thinking: Readingsin cognitive science.
Cambridge University Press, 1977, 355-376.Nash-Webber, Bonnie Lynn.
See also Webber, Bonnie Lynn.Nash-Webber, Bonnie Lynn (1976).
Semantic interpretation re-visited.
Report 3335 (AI report 48), Bolt Beranek and New-man Inc, Cambridge, Massachusetts, July 1976.Nash-Webber, Bonnie Lynn and Reiter, Raymond (1977).
Ana-phora and logical form: on formal meaning representations fornatural anguage.
\[1\] Proceedings of the fifth international jointconference on artificial intelligence.
Cambridge, Massachusetts,August 1977, 121-131.
\[2\] Technical report CSR-36, Centerfor the Study of Reading, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1977.Phillips, Brian (1977).
Discourse connectives.
Technical reportKSL-11, Knowledge Systems Laboratory, Department of Infor-mation Engineering, University of Illinois at Chicago Circle,March 1977.Pitkin, Willis L Jr (1977a).
Hierarchies and the discourse hier-archy.
College English, 38(7), March 1977, 648-659.Pitkin, Willis L Jr (1977b).
X/Y: Some basic strategies of dis-course.
College English, 38(7), March 1977, 660-672.Reichman, Rachel (1978).
Conversational coherency.
Cognitivescience, 2(4), October-December 1978, 283-327.Roberts, R Bruce and Goldstein, Ira P (1977a).
The FRL primer.Memo 408, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, MassachusettsInstitute of Technology, July 1977.Roberts, R Bruce and Goldstein, Ira P (1977b).
The FRL manual.Memo 409, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, MassachusettsInstitute of Technology, September 1977.Rosenberg, Steven T (1976).
Discourse structure.
Working paper130, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Instituteof Technology, 17 August 1976.Rosenberg, Steven T (1977).
Frame-based text processing.
Memo431, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Instituteof Technology, November 1977.Schank, Roger Carl and Abelson, Robert P (1977).
Scripts, plans,goals and understanding: An enquiry into human knowledgestructures.
Hillsdale, New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Associ-ates, 1977.
1975, 309-328.Schank, Roger Carl and Nash-Webber, Bonnie Lynn (1975).
Theo-retical issues in natural anguage processing: An inter-disciplinaryworkshop.
Cambridge, Massachusetts: Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, June 1975.Sidner, Candace Lee.
see also Bullwinkle, Candace Lee.Sidner, Candace Lee (1978a).
A progress report on the discourseand reference components of PAL.
\[1\] in: Proceedings of thesecond national conference, Canadian Society for ComputationalStudies of Intelligence/Societe canadienne des etudesd'intelligence par ordinateur.
Toronto.
July 1978, 206-213.
\[2\]Memo 468, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, MassachusettsInstitute of Technology, 1978.Sidner, Candace Lee (1978b).
The use of focus as a tool for thedisambiguation of definite noun phrases, in: Waltz 1978, 86-95.Sidner, Candace Lee (1979).
Towards a computational theory ofdefinite anaphora comprehension i  English discourse.
\[1\] PhDthesis, Department of Electrical Engineering and ComputerScience, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 16May 1979.\[2\] revised as: Technical report 537, Artificial IntelligenceLaboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, June 1979.Walker, Donald E (editor) (1978).
Understanding spoken language.
(The computer science library, Artificial intelligence series 5),New York: North-Holland, 1978.Waltz, David L (editor) (1978).
TINLAP-2: Theoretical issues innatural language processing 2.
\[1\] University of Illinois atUrbana-Champaign, 25-27 July 1978.
\[2\] reprinted in: Ameri-can journal of computational linguistics, fiche 78-80, 1978.Webber, Bonnie Lynn.
see also Nash-Webber, Bonnie Lynn.Webber, Bonnie Lynn (1978a).
A formal approach to discourseanaphora.
\[1\] (Outstanding dissertations in linguistics), NY:Garland Publishing, 1978.
\[2\] PhD thesis, Department of Ap-plied Mathematics, Harvard University, 1978.
\[3\] Report 3761,Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc, May 1978.Webber, Bonnie Lynn (1978b).
Description formation and dis-course model synthesis, in: Waltz 1978, 42-50.Winograd, Terry (1972).
Understanding atural anguage.
\[1\] NewYork: Academic Press, 1972.
\[2\] Edinburgh University Press,1972.
\[3\] also published in: Cognitive psychology, 3(1), 1972,1-191.Woods, William A; Kaplan, Ronald M and Nash-Webber, BonnieLynn (1972).
The Lunar Science Natural Language Informa-tion System: Final report.
Report 2378, Bolt Beranek andNewman Inc, Cambridge, Massachusetts, June 1972.Graeme Hirst is a doctoral candidate in the Depart-ment o f  Computer Science at Brown University.
Hereceived the M.Sc.
degree in Engineering Physics f romthe Australian National University in 1980.98 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981
