Focusing for Interpretation of Pronouns ICandace  L. S idnerBolt Beranek and Newman Inc.50 Moul ton StreetCambridge,  Massachuset ts  02238Recent studies in both artificial intelligence and linguistics have demonstrated the needfor a theory of the comprehension of anaphoric expressions, a theory that accounts for therole of syntactic and semantic effects, as well as inferential knowledge in explaining howanaphors are understood.
In this paper a new approach, based on a theory of the processof focusing on parts of the discourse, is used to explain the interpretation of anaphors.The concept of a speaker's loci is defined, and their use is demonstrated in choosing theinterpretations of personal pronouns.
The rules for choosing interpretations are statedwithin a framework that shows: how to control search in inferring by a new method calledconstraint checking; how to take advantage of syntactic, semantic and discourse constraintson interpretation; and how to generalize the treatment of personal pronouns, to serve as aframework for the theory of interpretation for all anaphors.1.
IntroductionTraditionally researchers have defined the problemof comprehending anaphoric expressions as one ofdetermining the antecedent of an anaphoric expression,that is, determining to which word or phrase an ana-phoric expression refers or "points".
Recent studiesin both artificial intelligence and linguistics have dem-onstrated the need for a theory of the comprehensionof anaphoric expressions, a theory that accounts forthe role of syntactic and semantic effects, as well asinferential knowledge in explaining how anaphors areunderstood.
In this paper a new theory, based on theconcept of focusing in the discourse, is introduced toexplain the interpretation of pronouns.Before a theory can be given, and before even thedifficulties in interpreting anaphors 2 can be discussed,I The research reported in this paper was supported in partby the Advanced Research Projects Agency under contract No.N0014-77-C-0378.
Research reported here was also done at theArtificial Intelligence Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology.
Support for the laboratory's artificial intell igenceresearch is provided in part by the Advanced Research ProjectsAgency of the Department  of Defense under ONR contractN00014-75-0643.
I would also like to thank Bob Bcrwick, BarbaraGrosz, David Israel, and the AJCL referees for their help in prepar-ing this paper.2 I use the term "anaphor"  for an anaphoric expression, and Iuse "anaphora"  in its traditional meaning, that is, as the device ofusing a word or phrase "to point back.
"we must first re-consider what an antecedent is.
Thetraditional definition encounters difficulty right fromthe start; it is founded on the notion that one word ina sentence refers or points back to another word orphrase in the (same or another) sentence.
But wordsdon't  refer back to other words \[Morgan 1978\]; peopleuse words to refer to entities in the world.
In particu-lar they use pronouns to refer to entities which havealready been mentioned in a discourse.
Since an ana-phoric phrase does not refer to an antecedent, onemight want to claim that both the antecedent and theanaphor co-refer to the same entity.
That descriptionis adequate for sentence s l ,sl  I think green apples taste best and theymake the best cooking apples too.though not for discourse D1, where there is no ante-cedent phrase in the discourse that co-refers with thepronoun "they.
"DI -1  My neighbor has a monster Harley 1200.2 They are really huge but gas-efficientbikes.Rather than view antecedence as co-reference, onemight propose that antecedence is a kind of cognitivepointing, the kind of pointing that causes " they"  and"green apples" to point (somehow) to the same classof entities in one's mind.
This proposal is problematicfor the same reason that co-reference is: people usepronouns when there is no other noun phrase in theCopyright 1981 by the Association for Computational  Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is grantedprovided that the copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the Journal reference and this copyright notice are included onthe first page.
To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or  specific permission.0362-613X/81/040217-15501.00American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981 217Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of Pronounsdiscourse that points to the right mental entity.
In D1," they"  refers to bikes which are Harley 1200's as agroup, while "a monster Harley 1200" mentions onlysome particular Harley 1200.
"They"  seems to beable to refer when used with the previously mentionedphrase "a monster Harley 1200" without the twophrases either co-referring or co-pointing.If an anaphor does not refer to an antecedentphrase, and if it need not always co-refer with its ap-parent antecedent (as in D1), then anaphor interpreta-tion is not simply finding the antecedent.
Neverthelessthe concept of antecedence as pointing back doesseem to capture some aspect of the comprehension ofanaphors, for when certain antecedent words are miss-ing from a discourse, people often fail to understandwhat is being said.Let us define the problem of interpreting and un-derstanding an anaphor in the following way.
Thephrase "green apples" in s l ,  when syntactically andsemantically interpreted, is said to specify a cognitiveelement in the hearer's mind.
In the computationalmodel of that process, this element is a database item,which might be represented by Apples2 in by the sche-ma below:Phrase76:string: "green apples"context: speakerl  think * tastes bestspecifies: Apples2Apples2:super-concept: applescolor: greenused-for: cookingThe speaker uses the information in a cognitive repre-sentation like Apples2 above to choose the phrase"green apples" in sl .
The hearer then uses the phrase"green apples" plus the syntactic and semantic inter-pretation of the rest of the sentence to locate a similarcognitive element in his own mind; it may be slightlydifferent because the hearer may not associate use incooking with green apples.
A cognitive element, suchas Apples2, is called the specification of "green ap-ples."
These elements, present in the memories ofspeaker and hearer, are of course related to other cog-nitive elements in their memories.What is the relation of specifications to the realworld?
One might like to claim that a reference rela-tion exists between specified cognitive elements andobjects in the world, but since referring is what peopledo with words, this relation is problematic for cogni-tive elements.
Instead, specifications are said torepresent the objects referred to; that is, they bear awell-structured correspondence to objects in the world.Apples2, the specification of "green apples," repre-sents the objects that are green apples.
For phrasessuch as "Santa Claus," where there is no real worldobject to represent, a specification represents the men-tal schema to which are attached the properties nor-mally associated with this imaginary person.The phrase " they"  in sl also specifies a cognitiveelement, namely the same one that "green apples"does.
Since the two bear the same relation to therepresentation Apples2, I say that they "co-speci fy"that memory element, or alternatively, that the inter-pretation of "green apples" is the co-specifier of theinterpretation of " they."
Co-specif ication, unlikeco-reference, allows one to construct abstract repre-sentations and define relationships between themwhich can be studied in a computational framework.With co-reference no such use is possible, since theobject referred to exists in the world and is not availa-ble for examination by computational processes.Even if a phrase and a pronoun do not co-specify,the specification of the phrase may be used to generatethe specification of a pronoun.
For example, in D1" they"  does not co-specify with the apparent anteced-ent phrase "a monster Harley 1200," but rather itrefers to the class of Harley 1200's of which the ap-parent antecedent is an instance.
Thus anaphor inter-pretation is not simply a matter of finding the corre-sponding cognitive element that serves as the specifi-cation of the anaphor; some additional process mustgenerate a specification for the anaphor from the rela-ted phrase "a monster Harley 1200.
"The concepts of specification and co-specificationcapture the "point ing back"  quality of antecedence,and also permit us to formulate an explanation of ana-phor interpretation that avoids the pitfalls of the con-cept of antecedence.
Anaphor interpretation can bestudied as a computational process that uses the al-ready existing specification of a phrase to find thespecification for an anaphor.
The process uses a rep-resentation of the discourse preceding the anaphor toencode the syntactic and semantic relationships in eachsentence as well as co-specification relationships be-tween phrases.
3 These definitions in themselves donot constitute a theory of anaphor interpretation.They do, however, make possible a succinct statementof the problem: how does one determine the specifi-cation of a anaphor?
Also, since we suspect that thespecification of an apparent antecedent phrase playssome role in choosing an anaphor's specification, wemay ask, just what is this role?
We hope for a directanswer to these questions, but before one can be giv-en, let us consider how a theory of interpretationought to address these questions.
A brief look at the3 In the rest of this paper, I speak of a phrase co-specifying(or specifying) with another phrase, when what I really mean is thatthe relation is between representations of phrases that have beeninterpreted by some parsing process, which indicates the sentencesyntactic relations, and by a semantic interpretation process, whichcomputes emantic relations among words of the sentence.218 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of Pronounsdifficulties of choosing co-specifiers suggests whichissues our theory should cover.Determining the co-specifier of an anaphor is diffi-cult because there are a multitude of possible co-specifiers in a given discourse, and there is no simpleway to choose the correct one.
Yet human hearersand readers generally do recover the correct co-specifying phrase intended by the speaker.
Humanreaders and hearers also fail to recover the co-specifying phrase in certain situations; this behavior isjust as valuable an observation as garden path phe-nomena for theories of parsing.
A theory of interpre-tation must predict the pattern of the hearer 's andreader's correct and incorrect choices, as well as fail-ures to understand, by a rule-governed account.
Inaddition, a taxonomy of the cases in which specifica-tions are used to generate other specifications must begiven, as well as a means of predicting their distribu-tion.Two other aspects of communication make it diffi-cult to find co-specifiers: the context of discussion andthe inferences people make.
People use the contextsurrounding an anaphor in understanding it.
If a theo-ry of anaphor interpretation is to capture understand-ing, it must include a means of encoding discoursecontext and whatever structure it has; the contextmust be distilled into a form that preserves its richnesswithout adding overwhelming complexity to the inter-pretation process.
In addition, researchers have dis-covered that anaphor interpretation involves makinginferences, some of which can be complex, each ofwhich must be chosen from a large base of knowledgeabout objects, people and things.
The practical de-ployment of inferential capabilities for any task re-quires control: knowing what to infer when, andknowing when to stop.
Since the general controlproblem is poorly understood, a theory of anaphorinterpretation must provide solutions to the more spe-cific problem of controlling inference in anaphor inter-pretation.The major portion of this paper addresses the is-sues of determining the specifications of anaphors,with an emphasis on the role of context and inference.The theory of focusing on parts of the discourse isintroduced, and a processor and its rules which rely onthe focusing theory are discussed.
Before turning tothis discussion, the previous and extensive research onanaphora re reviewed.2.
Research on AnaphoraThe role of context and inference, as well as syntaxand semantics, on anaphor interpretation have beenexplored extensively.
A brief look at these explora-tions indicates the necessity of a new approach.
Re-search on anaphora falls into four broad categories:1.
General heuristics for finding antecedents\[Winograd 1972\]2.
Syntactic and semantic onstraints on anaphora\[Katz & Fodor 1963, Woods et al 1976, Chomsky1976, Lasnik 1976, Reinhart 1976, Walker 1976\]3.
Use of inference to find antecedents \[Charniak1972, Rieger 1974, Hobbs 1976\]4.
Analysis of relations among objects in a discoursecontext \[Grosz 1977, Lockman 1978, Reichman1978, Webber 1978, Hobbs 1979\]Rather than review each approach, I point out thecontributions of each type to a theory of pronouninterpretation.General heuristics, as a means of choosing anteced-ents, predict reliably in a large number of typical ex-amples.
However,  no simple characterization fits thewide variety of cases where they fail (see Winograd1972 and Hobbs 1977); furthermore, the heuristicapproach is not theoretically grounded and cannotoffer a unified approach to the phenomena.Semantic selectional restrictions, based on the Katz-Fodor theory of semantic markers, and used by manycomputational linguists, can reduce the space of possi-ble antecedents, but they cannot be used to eliminateall possibilities, as the example below illustrates(where feeling soft can be said of either a mud pack orone's face):s2 Put the mud pack on your face.
Noticehow soft it feels.Syntactic restrictions, on logical form \[Chomsky 1976\]and on constituent structure \[Lasnik 1976, Reinhart1976\], stipulate conditions in which a pronoun and anoun phrase must have disjoint reference, as shownbelow.s3 * Near Dan, he saw a snake.s4 * The man whose house he bought wentgold digging in Alaska.These rules, however, do not stipulate the interpreta-tion of a pronoun; in a general theory they serve onlyas a filtering condition on the class of possible co-specifications.
Furthermore,  syntactic restrictionsmust also stipulate the disjoint reference conditions onreflexive pronouns although no adequate account ofthese conditions has yet appeared.Work by researchers in artificial intelligence oninference led to methods for forward and backwardchaining of inferences to bind the pronoun, represent-ed as a free variable, with some piece of knowledge;with this approach, the pronoun's interpretation wasthe value bound to the free variable.
This approachrevealed that inferences about world knowledge areoften needed to interpret pronouns.
However,  thesemethods failed to control the inference process suffi-ciently.
Charniak, attempting to resolve this problem,American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981 219Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of Pronounsproposed demons that would "wake up" in the appro-priate situation (that is, processes which could them-selves notice when they were to begin processing).But a large cache of demons would be required, andno assurance could be given that demons would existin every situation.
Most significantly, this proposalsaid nothing about the situation where two or moredemons might apply (who gets control?
how are thedecisions made?).
Furthermore all of the inference-based approaches to pronoun interpretation fail tooffer any theoretical approach because they rely on asimple mechanism, (simple variable binding betweenpronoun and some other phrase) which does not applyin many uses of anaphors, such as D1.Discourse approaches to anaphora include a techni-que similar to the inference method; one identifiessentence pairs and determines their semantic relation-ship as one of elaboration, similarity, contrast, parallelstructure; the pronouns are interpreted by variablebinding between items of the sentence pairs \[Hobbs1979\].
Webber 1978, using a notion of "discourseidentif ications" (that contain certain semantic anddiscourse content) similar to the notion of specifica-tion, stipulates constraints on the representation ofrelations among items mentioned in a discourse.Grosz \[1977, 1978, 1981\] illustrates how parts of aspeaker's knowledge, relevant to a discourse segment,are highlighted via focusing, a process that reflectswhat a speaker says and the nature of the knowledgein the space.
She shows that the structure of a taskaffects what items will be focused on in the discourse.Reichman has expanded this paradigm by describingcontext spaces, delineated by their topics.
Her analysisshows that within a context space only certain itemsmay be pronominalized.
She leaves open the ques-tions: What is the recognition procedure for determin-ing a context space?
How does one identify its topic?How does the hearer determine the interpretation of apronoun, i.e., how does a hearer decide which highlyfocused items act as the co-specification of a pronoun?All these approaches upport the view that since hear-ers do not have privileged access to a speaker's mind,other than through what a speaker says, imposingstructure on the speaker's discourse will provide aframework for establishing the interpretation of pro-nouns.The remainder of this paper defines the concept ofspeaker's foci and shows that they can be used tochoose specifications for personal pronouns.
The rulesfor choosing interpretations are stated within a frame-work that shows:?
how to control search in inferring by a new me-thod called constraint checking,?
how to take advantage of syntactic, semanticand discourse constraints on interpretation,how to generalize the treatment of personalpronouns, to serve as a framework for the theo-ry of interpretation for all anaphors.3.
Focus for Pronoun Interpretat ionA simple discourse can be used to illustrate howpronouns indicate what the speaker is talking about inthe discourse.
In the sample below, the speaker men-tions two dogs and tells us something about each.D2-1 I have two dogs.2 (The) one is a poodle;3 the other is a cocker spaniel.4 The poodle has some weird habits.5 He eats plastic flowers and likes to sleepin a paper bag.6 It 's a real problem keeping him away fromplastic flowers.7 The cocker is pretty normal,8 and he's a good watch dog.9 I like having them as pets.The speaker uses the pronouns "he"  and "h im"  toindicate that the poodle is the actor of eating flowersand the object of an action of keeping.
The speakermentions his second dog with "the other"  and thenuses the pronoun "he"  only in predicate adjective andpredicate nominative constructions without referenceto any events.
Initially the speaker focuses attentionon both dogs and then turns his attention to each for apart of the discourse.
The process by which thespeaker uses language to indicate his focus is calledthe focusing process.
The items in focus are those thatare talked about for a part of the discourse.
Items infocus can be used in two ways, as actor focus and asdiscourse focus.
The actor focus is a discourse itemthat is predicated as the agent in some event, so forexample, the poodle is the agent in eating flowers,while the discourse focus is, roughly speaking, an itemthe speaker wishes to make several predicationsabout.
4The focusing process, when explained from theviewpoint of a hearer, can be described as a process oftracking the speaker's loci as they change over thediscourse.
A hearer does not have privileged informa-tion about what is in a particular speaker's head, sothe hearer must decide what the speaker is talkingabout on the basis of what the speaker uses as initialreferring expressions and subsequent co-specifyinganaphoric expressions.
The hearer follows a focus andchecks to see if the anaphoric expressions which thespeaker uses either co-specify with the hearer's repre-sentation of that focus or specify a representat ion4 This description is not a definition of discourse focus.
Thediscourse focus is defined by the effects of several focusing algor-ithms; for details, see Sidner 1979.220 American Journal of Computat ional  Linguistics, Vo lume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of Pronounsrelated to it.
The hearer is said to be tracking thespeaker's focus because she or he can determine whatis being talked about only after the speaker has saidsomething.
Focus, as it is used here, is akin to Grosz'snotion \[1977\] of immediate focus.A process model of focusing and focus trackingconsists of three distinct processors.
The first choosesfoci based on what the speaker initially says.
Thealgorithm for this choice depends on many phenomena- see Sidner 1979 for details.
Then an interpreter (thepronoun interpreter) uses these foci and a set of rulesof pronoun interpretation (hereafter "pi -rules")  tointerpret the anaphoric expressions in the discourse.This interpreter, like a human hearer, must keep inmind whatever other newly mentioned elements thespeaker has introduced, since sometimes an anaphormay co-specify with one of those instead of the ele-ments in focus.
A third process updates the loci bydecisions that depend on anaphoric interpretationschosen by the pronoun interpreter.
During this lastphase, the updating process moves one of the loci to anew element of the discourse, if some anaphor co-specified with that new element while no anaphorco-specif ied with the phrase already in focus.
Thethree processes taken together sketch a simple modelof focus tracking; the model appears to behave like itshuman counterpart in the way it interprets anaphorsand in the instances inSo far, the processchosen, they are usedwhich it fails to "understand.
"model looks circular.
Foci areto determine how anaphors co-specify with the loci and then the co-specifiers areused to determine what's in focus.
In fact, the modelis not circular, but its steps are cyclic.
The processorcycles through the three processes for each sentence inthe discourse.
This cycling differs from logical circu-larity because it depends on new information present-ed over time, the time of each sentence of the dis-course.For example, reconsider the first few sentences ofD2, given previously.
Initially the speaker mentionstwo dogs, which become the discourse focus, and thenhe extends the discussion of them using "one.. .theother" anaphors.
The actor focus is the speaker.
Us-ing a definite noun phrase anaphor "the poodle," thespeaker turns his attention to the that dog, and it be-comes the discourse focus and the actor focus.
Usinganother definite noun phrase anaphor "the cocker,"the speaker changes the discourse focus to the cocker.The speaker's concluding sentence expands the dis-course focus back to both dogs with the use of" them.
"In Sidner 1979 a machine for choosing and updat-ing the discourse focus and actor focus is given.
Themachine chooses items in the discourse to serve as"expected" foci after the first sentence of a discourseand uses the interpretation of pronouns as well asnon-pronoun anaphors to determine whether its ex-pected choices were correct.
The machine updates thediscourse and actor focus after each sentence andchanges foci when the anaphoric expressions no longerco-specify with the item in focus.
This simple machinetracks the foci from the hearer 's point of view andshows how the hearer can recognize foci and changesof loci.
In the remaining discussion, it is assumed thatthe focus machine can determine a discourse and anactor focus.
Our attention is directed at the followingconcerns.
How can these two foci be used to interpretdiscourse pronouns?
What rules are used by the pro-noun interpreter?
How do these rules make use of theconstraints on the theory of pronoun interpretationdiscussed earlier in this paper?The focusing theory of pronoun interpretation canbe outlined as follows.
At any time in the discourseafter the first sentence, there are loci that are theprime candidates for co-specifying with a pronoun.Also available is a list of alternate candidates, calledpotential foci, for each focus.
Unless the focus candi-date is ruled oflt by certain criteria (to be discussedbelow), the pronoun interpreter uses it to determinethe specification of the pronoun.
Most of the discus-sion in this paper concerns the criteria that must beencoded in the rules for choosing among the foci aswell as the criteria for rejecting a focus in favor of oneof the potential foci.The proposal made here contains two implicit proc-essing assumptions, (1) serial processing, and (2) end-of-sentence processing.
By "serial processing", Imean that the interpreter checks a focus as a candidatein interpreting the pronoun, and then if that focus isunacceptable, checks alternate candidates in turn.
By"end-of -sentence processing", I mean that pronounsare not interpreted until the entire sentence has beensyntactically and semantically interpreted.
Both ofthese criteria could be given up without underminingthe focusing theory.
One could envision processing inparallel by checking the foci and alternates and thendetermining the pronoun's pecification from an order-ing of all those candidates that meet the criteria ofchoice.
To interpret pronouns before the end of thesentence, the interpreter could decide using availableinformation and then review its choice as more of thesentence is processed.
These two implicit processingassumptions have been made because they simplify theaccount of focus and because they reflect an imple-mented version of one focus system.
Further researchwill indicate whether these assumptions are too strong- if so, the focusing theory may be re-tested underparallel and mid-sentence interpretation assumptions.4.
Using Focus for Pronoun Interpretat ion RulesThe pronouns in the example discourse in the pre-ceding section can be interpreted with a simple rule:American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981 221Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of PronounsRI:  Choose the discourse focus as the co-specifier of the pronoun.
But if the pro-noun appears in the agent position of theverb case frame structure, then choose theactor focus.R1 is a naive formulation and fails to predict accu-rately over a wide range of phenomena.
It can berevised to include criteria from syntax, semantics andpragmatics, as well as criteria about discourse charac-teristics.
In the next several pages, I present criteriathat make use of all four sources of knowledge andincorporate them into R1 to form a series of pi-rules;these rules make use of the discourse and actor foci,the potential loci, and the processing of the focusmachine.Syntax, semantics and pragmatics can be includedin an initial way by the modification R2:R2: If a pronoun appears in a verb case framerelation other than agent, choose the dis-course focus as co-specifier unless any ofthe syntactic, semantic and pragmaticknowledge constraints rule out the choice.If the pronoun appears in agent position,choose the actor focus as co-specifier inthe same way.Ruling out a co-specifier on the basis of syntacticand semantic onstraints is accomplished by computingthe various syntactic relationships and restrictions(such as Lasnik's disjoint reference rules) and by useof semantic selectional restrictions on case frame cate-gories.
How one uses general knowledge constraints isnot so obvious; one wants to avoid the problems ofcontrol on inference mentioned previously.The focus rule above, although only a skeleton ofthe full rules needed, contains the basis for control ofinferences.
Under the method of rule R2, inference isno longer used to find a binding for the pronoun act-ing as a variable by forward and backward chaining.Instead inference is a constraint-checking process.The context up to the sentence under interpretation isintegrated into memory; when a co-specifier is chosenfor the pronoun, inferring serves only to find a contra-diction in the database.
The database will also includean interpreted form of the sentence with the pronoun,with the pronoun replaced by its specification as pre-dicted from the phrase in focus.
Only when a contra-diction is found, is the suggested specification given upin favor of another choice.
The loci of the discoursecan be additionally helpful in database inference be-cause only that part of the database that concernswhat is in focus needs to be explored for contradic-tions.
Some research on truth maintenance systems\[Doyle 1978, McAllester 1978\] has experimented withconstraint-checking and developed algorithms for effi-ciently finding and undoing contradictions; however,no one has considered how to explore only certain"sub-sect ions" of a database for contradictions.On this account of inferring and pronoun interpre-tation, the inference machine must still infer proposi-tions and reach contradictions.
However, this methodreduces the search needed to make sense of the newsentence because specific choices for the pronouns aregiven; when a contradiction is reached, a new choice ismade rather than either blindly binding the pronoun tosome other object or blindly searching for some otherproposit ion to change, so that the contradict ion iseliminated.When a suggested co-specifier for a pronoun mustbe given up, the pronoun interpreter must use thepotential foci as possible co-specifiers.
However,  theinterpreter's actual choices require consideration ofseveral matters, and before any rules can be stated,several motivating cases must be presented.D3-1 Alfred and Zohar liked to play baseball.2 They played it everyday after schoolbefore dinner.3 After their game, Alfred and Zohar hadice cream cones.4 The boys thought they tasted really good.5 Alfred always had the vanilla super scooper,6 while Zohar tried the flavor of the day cone.7 After the cones had been eaten,8 the boys went home to study.In D3, Alfred and Zohar are the initial actor focuswhile baseball  is the initial discourse focus.
D3-2contains two pronouns, " they"  and " i t "  which, ac-cording to R2, co-specify respectively with Alfred andZohar, and baseball.
D3-3 uses "their ,"  which co-specifies with Alfred and Zohar, but is not accountedfor by rule R2.
Furthermore " they"  in D3-4 does notco-specify with baseball  but with ice cream cones.What has happened?Suppose in addition to the ongoing actor and dis-course focus, the hearer can consider temporari ly anynew entities mentioned in the last sentence that thehearer has heard.
These entities, the potential foci, aredropped out of processing use if the speaker fails tomention them a second time; such alternatives areelements the speaker may want to say more about, buttheir importance to the speaker cannot be determinedfrom one sentence.
Thus in D3-2, foci include theevent of playing, and the times "everyday" ,  "beforedinner," and "after  school".
None of these potentialssurvives long into the discourse as D3-3 fails to pickup on any of them.
D3-3 in turn introduces someother potential oci, and one of them, ice cream cones,is discussed in D3-4; notice also that D3-4 fails tomention baseball in any way.222 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of PronounsR2 must be extended so that it uses the potentialfoci whenever criteria from syntax, semantics or prag-matic knowledge rule out the current actor or dis-course focus.
Thus since "they" in D3-4 cannot co-specify with baseball (on both syntactic 5 and semantic 6grounds), a potential focus is chosen.
Potential fociare ordered according to their thematic relation 7 in asentence, with semantic case objects first, and agentslast.
The first potential focus that meets all the const-raints is chosen as the co-specifier; in D3, ice creamcones is the first acceptable potential focus that meetsall the necessary constraints as a co-specifier for"they.
"Use of this modified pronoun rule follows hand-in-hand with the focus machine discussed previously.The machine updates its discourse model after eachsentence by tracking, among other things, pronounuse.
When a pronoun is used to co-specify with aphrase that is a potential focus, and no phrase co-specifies the current focus, either the discourse focusor actor focus moves to that potential focus.
Which ofthe two foci moves depends on whether the pronounfills the agent case in the verb frame, and in the caseof multiple agent cases, whether the ongoing actorfocus is re-mentioned.
For example, after D3-4, thediscourse focus changes to ice cream cones because"they" co-specifies with the ice cream cones; the boysremain the actor focus, since "they" is not an agentcase for "taste" and since the boys were already theactor focus.So far pi-rules take into account the movement offocus and constraints on syntax, semantics and prag-matics.
However, some of the semantic and pragmaticcriteria must be expanded beyond the simple caseframe semantics and representation of noun phrasesgiven earlier.As the reader may have concluded, the interactionbetween actor and discourse loci is a complex one; tosupplement the case frame semantics, some functionalnotion of theme (in the sense of functionalists uch asHalliday 1967) is needed.
For example, the properco-specifier for the pronoun in D4-3 cannot be chosenwith R2 and only simple case frame relations.D4-1 I haven't seen Jeff for several days.2 Carl thinks he's studying for his exams.3 But I think he went to the Cape with Linda.Although Carl is the actor focus after D4-2, and "he"in D4-3 is the actor case in the embedded sentence,the proper choice for the co-specifier is Jeff.
Howev-5 since "they" is a plural pronoun and baseball is singular,6 since the discourse items filling the object case of tasteshould be tastable items,7 This type of ordering is motivated by the determination ofan initial focus.
See Sidner 1979 for details.er, with simple case frame semantics, the interpretermust consider "Carl"  as the co-specifier and then failto rule it out (because no syntactic, semantic orknowledge constraints can eliminate it).I have designed the pi-rules to use a semantics thatmarks verbs like "thinking" or "talking" with who thethinking or talking was about.
D4-3 would indicatethat the speaker thinks about X, that X went to theCape with Linda.
With this semantics, the interpreterfollows a rule to prefer the discourse focus as the co-specifier of any pronoun filling the theme position insuch a verb.
Since the actor focus is associated withthe agent case, use of such a theme-based rule is con-sistent with the framework.
With such a rule, Jeff ischosen as the co-specifier of "he," not because Carlcouldn't have gone to the Cape with Linda, but be-cause the speaker is talking about Jeff and histhoughts about Jeff.
In essence this approach takesthe discourse focus as primary, the discourse focusbeing what the speaker is talking about so far, whilethe actor focus is the locus of information about ac-tions in the discourse.The theme-focus rule does not indicate what to dowhen the discourse focus and actor focus are bothanimate, have the same gender, number and person,and are both established uring the same sentence ofthe discourse.
People sometimes have difficultychoosing interpretations in such circumstances.
InD5-2a below, "he" co-specifies with " John" (the actorfocus) but if D5-2b followed D5-1, "he"  may co-specify with either John or Mike (the discourse focus).D5-1 John called up Mike yesterday.2 a He wanted to discuss his physics homework.b He was studying for his driver's test.In these cases, native speakers report that the co-specifier for the pronoun is ambiguous.
If the pro-noun fills an agent case, the actor is preferred, but thispreference is not a strong one.
It appears that in suchcases the ambiguity may not be easily resolved unlessadditional information about the two foci is knownthat stipulates that the sentence is true of only one.Potential foci can be sub-categorized as either po-tential discourse loci or as potential actor foci.
Apotential actor is a noun phrase which specifies a data-base element marked as animate and which does notoccur in agent position.
In most sentences, the nounphrase in agent position contains a descriptive word orname in the head, and specifies a database lement; itbecomes the actor focus.
But when the noun phrasein agent position is a pronoun, it may co-specify witheither the actor focus (if one exists), or a potentialactor.
Ambiguities occur when an actor and one po-tential actor are both present in a previous sentenceand when the discourse focus is a non-actor entity.An example is given below.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981 223Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of PronounsConsider the examples where s5 follows each of s6,s7, s8 and s9.s5 He knows a lot about high energy physics.s6 Prof. Darby will tell Monty about theneutron experiment.s7 Prof. Darby will lecture Monty on theneutron experiment.s8 Prof. Darby will help Monty with theneutron experiment.s9 Prof. Darby will teach Monty about theneutron experiment.Some native speakers find all of these sentence pairsambiguous, while some native speakers find only thepair s6 followed by s5 ambiguous.
These examples aresurprisingly similar to D5.
How do some speakersdecide that "he"  co-specifies with Monty or Prof.Darby?
It appears that they make a comparison andchoose between the actor focus and the potential actoron the basis of evidence for their preferred interpreta-tion.
When that evidence is not forthcoming, infor-mants are confused.
Such a behavior suggests that theinference mechanism should be able to judge prefer-ences between a given actor and one potential actor.A computational system that makes such judgmentsmust have a very rich knowledge base (e.g., to knowthat Monty is a male name, and that professors maybe male) and must be able to infer which actor is pref-erable from that base.
A computational frameworkfor carrying out such subtle judgments is still beyondthe state of the art, although Marcus 1980 has pro-posed a semantic choice mechanism that must alsoweigh evidence for preposit ional phrase attachment;his parser, when attaching prepositional phrases, asksthe semantic processor about its preferences for whereto attach the phrases.In summary, the interpreter can use the followingcondition for these ambiguities.POTENTIAL  ACTOR AMBIGUITY  CONDI -TION: Whenever a pronoun may co-specify theactor focus, and a single potential actor exists,expect a possible ambiguity.
To resolve,1.
If there is evidence supporting the actor fo-cus as the co-specifier, but not the potentialactor, then the actor focus is the co-specifier.2.
When evidence supports the potential actorbut not the actor focus, select the potentialactor as the co-specifier.3.
However, if there is evidence for both, selectthe actor focus but indicate ambiguity.A summary of a full set of pronoun rules is given inthe appendix to this paper.
These rules represent whatcan be said about pronoun interpretation in the ab-sence of any additional information in knowledge rep-resentation beyond that suggested in the discussion ofco-specification.
To interpret certain pronouns, suchas those where a co-specifying phrase does not pre-cede the pronoun in the discourse, as in D1, we mustconsider how knowledge is structured and represented.5.
Focus and Knowledge Representat ionFocusing theory with the syntactic and semanticrepresentations discussed initially does not include anaccount of the representation of sentence pairs such asD6 where the sentence is ambiguous due to scope ofquantifiers.D6-1 Wendy showed each girl Bruce knows a cat.2 a She had found it at Farmer John's.b They were all from the same litter.At present he focusing rules predict only that "a  cat"is the expected discourse focus, but they say nothingabout the scope relations for representing the seman-tics of the phrase as part of D6-1.
Without scoperelations, D6-2b is ruled out by the number agreementcriteria when in fact most speakers say that " they"co-specifies with the set of cats that may be evoked inD6-1.
Webber 1978 not only argues in detail for rep-resenting scope relations in the mechanisms for inter-preting anaphors, but also gives rules for determiningscope in a representation of phrases that may be co-specifiers.On Webber 's  analysis, D6-1 will have two repre-sentations for "a  cat"  and for "each girl Bruceknows."
The one for "a cat" can be paraphrased as:1.
R I :  the cat associated with D6-1 such that Wendyshowed it to each girl Bruce knows.2.
R2: the set of cats, the members of which are asso-ciated with D6-1 such that Wendy showed (one of)them to each girl Bruce knows.Webber has suggested what the representation mustbe, and what remains to be determined is when it isused.
Let us suppose that D6-1 is ambiguous,8 and nosyntactic or semantic processing of it adjudicates thetwo readings R1 and R2 for "a cat."
When the pro-noun interpreter seeks to co-specify " i t "  in D6-2awith the discourse focus, both readings will be availa-ble.
The set reading R2 may be eliminated immediate-ly because of constraints that the co-specifier epre-sent a singleton, so R1 is left.
In contrast, for D6-2bthe reading R1 will be ruled out since " they"  requiresa plural co-specifier.
This account both explains howthe pronouns may be understood, and also is consist-ent with Van Lehn's findings \[1978\] that people do8 A question, often raised by Martin (see, for example, Martin1979), is whether a sentence that is ambiguous among severalreadings must be represented by several different structures, one foreach reading.
He offers a semantic representation that preservesambiguity until some processor demands a refinement.
Whetherthis approach or an alternative representation containing bothreadings i  best is still an open question.224 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of Pronounsnot normally disambiguate certain ambiguous quantifi-er scopes during sentence understanding for sentencessuch as D6-1.
It is compatible with Van Lehn's find-ings because alternative interpretations of scope arenot considered until additional discourse material be-yond the single sentence is presented.Webber 's  rules also allow the phrase "each girlBruce knows" to be interpreted as a prototype, withthe result that "a cat" is also.
Most speakers find thisreading very odd, and one can ask how such a readingis eliminated.
Possibly it is never generated, andWebber's rules need modification.
Alternatively it isproduced, and then is ruled out, either in understand-ing D6-1 because showing prototypic cats is bizarre,or because in interpreting " i t"  for D6-2a, the infer-ence mechanism balks at Wendy having found a proto-typic cat at Farmer Brown's.
I think that such read-ings never occur in the first place, simply because mostspeakers, who do not report this reading themselves,have difficulty understanding the reading when theyare told about it.Another case of semantic ambiguity, similar to theone in D6, is illustrated in D7.D7-1 Sally wanted to buy a vegomatic.2 She had seen it advertised on TV.
"A  vegomatic"  may be interpreted specifically, tomean that there is one particular vegomatic or non-specifically, to mean that it is one of the many vego-matics.
9 The focusing rules do not distinguish betweenthe two after D7-1 because, like D6-1, D7-1 is ambi-guous, and neither interpretation can be chosen withcertainty.
When " i t"  is resolved for co-specificationin D7-2, the inference mechanism must decide thatSally does not want the very one used in the advertise-ment on TV.
"A  vegomatic," whether understood asspecific or non-specific, specifies a different represent-ation than " i t"  does.
Therefore the pronoun's pecifi-cation as a specific vegomatic must be generated fromthe ambiguous use.Suppose, for a moment, that D7-1 is interpreted sothat a representation that maintains ambiguity is avail-able.
When the pronoun interpreter processes a sub-sequent sentence with a pronoun, it need only rule outreadings if the inference machine discounts as contra-dictory one of the readings (Sally didn't want to buythe very one she saw on TV).
If no reading is ruledout, the co-specifier would remain ambiguous, so thatboth the indefinite phrase and the pronoun would have9 The terms "non-specif ic" and "specific" are traditionalsemantic expressions that bear no relation to "specify" and"specification."
A non-specific reading of "a dog" would be inter-preted to produce a representation f an instance of the prototypicdog; what is represented is a dog which has the characteristics ofthe prototypic dog - e.g., an animal with four legs, a tail, mediumsize, brown, friendly, barks, and the like.ambiguous co-specifications.
As the next exampleshows, there is some evidence for this behavior.Consider the case shown in D8.D8-1 Sally bought a vegomatic that had abroken cutting blade.2 She had seen it advertised on TV.
"A  vegomatic that had a broken cutting blade" in thecontext of D8-1 usually means some particular vego-matic that Sally bought.
However, " i t"  is ambiguousamong the vegomatic Sally bought (the broken one),some vegomatic (possibly not broken), and a vegomat-ic that is an instance of prototypic vegomatic.
Thus" i t"  is three ways ambiguous.To understand D8-2, the pronoun interpreter doesnot distinguish among the three readings, since it ac-cesses the one provided by the specification in D8-1,which is the specific reading.
To find the specificationof " it ," the inference mechanism must discover that itis slightly odd (1) for Sally to have seen the vegomaticwith a broken blade which she bought being advertisedon TV, and (2) for Sally to see any broken vegomaticson TV, and (3) for Sally to have seen the very one shebought on TV.
Then if no other choices for co-specification are available, the specification of vego-matic from D8-1 must be used to generate an appro-priate specification for "it".
Since only unbroken onesnot bought by Sally are appropriate, the specificationof " i t "  must be generated using only part of thephrase from D8-1.This example seems problematic because it placesmuch weight on the inference machine to decide thatthe reading is odd.
However, this is likely to be justwhere the weight of the decision ought to be; manynative speakers find D8 slightly bizarre because theirfirst reading is that Sally had seen the vegomatic withthe broken blade advertised on TV.
In fact, it appearsthat when a specific indefinite noun phrase such as "avegomatie"  is introduced, and the speaker wants toturn attention to the non-specif ic reading, a pluralpronoun is used as shown below:s l0 She had seen them advertised on TV.The plural non-specific reading as in s l0  is mentionedin the pronoun rules found in the appendix, but thegeneration of a specification as in D8-2 is not.Examples such as D8 are perplexing for anotherreason; they are examples of what I call, followingFahlman 1977, the "copy phenomenon."
The ambigu-ity centers around the fact that there can be manycopies of an abstract prototype.
Automobiles, com-puter programs, airplane flights and money are othercommon cases of entities that exhibit the copy phe-nomenon.
In D9, the interpretation of " i t"  dependson whether the speaker is referring to a particularflight or the normal Sunday flight, a copy of whichAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981 225Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of Pronounsoccurred on "this Sunday" because of the use of"usually".D9-1 TWA 384 was so bumpy this Sunday Ialmost got sick.2 It usually is a very smooth flight.Note that the "it" cannot co-specify with the particularflight on "this Sunday".
However, it is possible thatthe speaker used "TWA 384" to refer to a particularflight; if this is so, the speaker mixed the specific andnon-specific interpretations for the co-specifier of"it".
Just as in D8, a specification for the pronounmust be generated - -  in this case, a non-specific onefrom the specific reading.Another characteristic anaphora is the bound varia-ble case described by Partee \[1978, 1972\].
In D10below, "him" co-specifies with Archibald, while if thereflexive "himself" were used, it would involve a vari-able bound to the quantifier from "every man.
"D10-1 Archibald sat down on the floor.2 Every man put a screen in front of him.In linguistic theory, bound variables are assumed to berepresented in sentence semantics; when used in con-junction with syntactic disjoint reference rules, pro-nouns within the scope of the quantifier can be distin-guished from non-scoped ones.
Since the pronouninterpreter takes account of these conditions, it caneasily choose a proper co-specifier for "him" in D10in terms of the focus, but for "himself" it will recog-nize the bound relation to "every man."
It is crucialto these cases that the representation of the interpreta-tion of a sentence includes scope of quantification,especially when the scope is unambiguous.6.
Focus Restr ic t ions on Co-spec i f i cat ionThere are other restrictions on co-specification thatresult from the processing of the focus machine.
Thefocus machine includes a stack on which old foci arestored when the focus changes.
In addition to co-specifications with current actor and discourse foci, aspeaker may use a pronoun to co-specify a discourseelement hat was once in focus but is no longer; Grosz1977 described and illustrated this behavior for ana-phoric noun phrases in task-oriented dialogues.A pi-rule that selects candidates from the focusstack can capture this behavior.
However, the rulemust be further constrained.
An anaphor that is in-tended to co-specify with a stacked focus must not beacceptable as a co-specifier with either the foci orpotential oci.
An example from a literary text10 illus-trates how.Was that old lady evil, the one Saul and Ihad seen sitting on the porch?
I had dreamedabout her.
When the trolley car took me andSaul past her house again this morning, she wasgone.
Evil, it had a queer sound to it in Eng-lish.\[Here the narrative moves on to an incidentin a school classroom.
A discussion between thespeaker and a male teacher ensues for five para-graphs.
Then the following paragraph begins:\]She had worn an old brown coat and a greenscarf over her head.In this example, "she" co-specifies with the old ladydiscussed previously.
If Potok had told of a discussionbetween the speaker and a female teacher, it would nolonger be possible to tell that "she" was co-specifyingwith the old woman.
While interpreting the reading of"she" as teacher might be a bit surprising because theteacher's clothing was not relevant to the previousconversation, no inference can rule out that readingbecause teachers may wear old brown coats.
Hencethe pronoun interpreter must reflect these facts, and itdoes so with the stacked focus constraint.The stacked focus constraint is not stated directlywithin the pi-rules.
Instead it is implicit in their func-tion.
The condition is as follows: A pronoun cannotbe used to co-specify with a stacked focus when acurrent focus is an acceptable co-specification sincethat current focus will be taken as the interpretationand the stacked focus will never come into considera-tion.
The stacked focus constraint is a consequence ofthe movement of focus in the focus machinery.The stacked focus constraint, however, may beoverridden.
Grosz (see Deutsch 1975, 1974) hasidentified several examples, involving pumps and bolt-ing operations, that show that a pronoun may co-specify with the stacked focus even when interveningmaterial contains possible co-specifiers.
Some compli-cated set of inferences about what can and cannot bebolted to what, or what can and cannot be loosenedmight be able to rule out the intervening possible co-specifications.
However there appears to be too littledelay in understanding for people who read her ex-cerpts (there is no means of determining whether theoriginal speaker and hearer experienced any delay inunderstanding) to suggest hat they are ruling out mul-tiple possibilities in interpreting the pronouns, itHence one may conclude that the speaker and hearerare taking advantage of their knowledge of the task toprovide a discourse context in which the focusing ma-chinery can be applied.How many such discourse interpretation mecha-nisms exist?
While this paper does not address thisquestion directly, some speculation is possible on the10 In the Beginning by Chaim Potok, page 212, chapter 4,Fawcett Publications, Inc., Conn.,  1975.11 This informal evidence needs to be tested out in a psycho-logical laboratory.
I have not done so, but the results of suchexperimentation would be revealing.226 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretat ion of Pronounsbasis of research that has been reported elsewhere (seeSidner 1979, Robinson 1981).
In general, it appearsthat discourses permitting violations of the stackedfocus constraint must contain an implicit structure oftask completion that guides the hearer to a context inwhich the foci for that context may be re-used.
With-out this structure the hearer cannot decide that thespeaker intended for the pronoun to co-specify withsomething other than the representation of the objectcurrently under discussion.7.
Pronouns Which Have No Co-specifiersThe previous discussion has assumed that a pro-noun is always preceded by a co-specifying phrase.However, this is not always the case, and a completetheory of pronoun interpretation must address caseswhere the co-specifying phrase appears after the pro-noun, and where no co-specifier exists, but the discus-sion implies a specification for the pronoun.Pronouns used with their co-specifiers appearingafter the occurrence of the pronoun have been calledbackward anaphora in the linguistic literature; I referto them as forward co-specifiers.
Two such examples,s l l  and s12, are given below.sl 1 If he comes before the show, give Johnthese tickets and send him to the theatre.s12 Near him, Dan saw a snake.In general the pronoun co-specifies with some nounphrase interpretation, but the phrase is placed forwardin the discourse.
The types of sentences in which thisbehavior can occur are limited.
In general it seems tobe permitted for fronted sentential prepositional phras-es (as in s12), subordinate clauses fronted on anothersentence (as in s l l ) ,  and for sentences containingco-ordinating conjunctions, t2 However, it is excluded,as far as I can tell, in the following cases: 13s13 * I heard about her job from Mary.s14 * I spoke about him with John's wife.Extensive research in linguistics on forward co-specifiers (Solan contains a good review) gives reliableevidence that structural constraints govern it; in par-ticular, syntactic rules can be stated that determinewhen forward co-specifiers are not permitted.
Themost recent formulation, by Solan, called the back-ward anaphora restriction, fails on the cases below,12 Solan 1978 cites the example:s15 Penelope grabbed his cane and beat Peter with it.13 There is some disagreement on s13; Solan claims it isacceptable.
All the native speakers I have asked said they inter-preted the pronoun as "referring to Mary" only because there wereno other usual choices and because you could hear about a person'sjob from that person.
Since all the people I asked informally toldme it was a strange sentence for them, I am assuming that it isdeviant.but some working modification of it may yet be forth-coming.s16 In her room Mary saw a ghost.s17 I heard about Mary's job from her.Whatever the best formulation of the syntacticrules for forward co-specifiers, they are preferableonly in initial sentences of a discourse.
For example,when s l l  occurs in mid-discourse, if a speaker hasbeen talking about Henry, and just begun mention ofCharles, native speakers will interpret "he"  as co-specifying with Henry, or Charles (if Henry can beruled out on basis of some special pragmatic knowl-edge).
The pi-rules using focus behave in exactly thisway.
They will permit a forward co-specifier only ifHenry and Charles can be ruled out by syntactic, se-mantic and world knowledge criteria.
Were s l l  tooccur when Lydia was in focus, the forward co-specifier would be possible, and pi-rules mirror thisbehavior.When faced with a pronoun that has no precedingco-specifier and is not a forward co-specifier, the pro-noun interpreter relies on a condition that is called themissing co-specifier condition.
In the remainder of thissection, I describe that condition.
The pi-rules includea rule for recognizing that a pronoun is missing itsco-specifier, but they do not offer an interpretation forsuch pronouns.In each of the cases below, the pronoun specifiessome cognitive element that is related to one of theentities mentioned in either the previous sentence orthe same sentence.
These examples 14 are differentfrom the non-specific prototypic readings of pronounsdiscussed earlier because no phrase which can be usedas a generator exists.D l l -1  I saw Mr. Smith the other day; you know,she died last year.2 John is an orphan.
He misses them verymuch.3 Pro-Castro people don't believe he is amonster.4 I went to a concert last night.
Theyplayed Beethoven's ninth.5 I want to meet with Bruce next week.Please arrange it for us.6 I used to be quite a tennis player.
Nowwhen I get together with the young guysto play, I can hardly get it over the net.With the exception of D11-1, most speaker-hearers areable to say which is the intended specification of thepronoun in the cases above.
D11-1 can be understood14 The examples given here are from several sources; the firstthree are from Postal 1969, the fourth from Chafe 1975, the fifthfrom dialogues collected for the PAL system \[Sidner 1979\], and thelast was spoken by a lecturer at a presentation I attended.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981 227Candace L, Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of Pronounsif the hearer is informed that Mr. Smith had a wife.However, some of these, especially 1 and 2, are so oddfor most hearers that at first they fail to comprehendthe pronoun.
Hearers are divided on the acceptabilityof 3, and most hearers find 4 and 5 acceptable.
Fur-thermore, such examples, as far as I can tell, do notoccur naturally in written samples.This paper does not give an account of just howsuch cases are understood.
However,  the focusingapproach provides some basic structure that may beuseful in generating an explanation for such situations.In all the multi-sentence cases, the pronoun specifiessomething which is closely associated with the focus.What is problematic is the fact that some speakersseem unable to understand a pronoun which specifies adatabase element that, while related to the item infocus, represents omething that no longer exists, suchas John's parents in light of John's orphanhood.Whatever the manner in which hearers recover specifi-cations for such pronouns, some principles are neededwhich govern why some uses of pronouns are accepta-ble and others are not.8.
The Problem of Paral lel ismThe pi-rules give incorrect predictions for certainuses of pronouns, uses that are difficult to define.Intuitively, they may be characterized as occurringwhen there is a parallel structure between sentences ofa discourse/5 In many of these cases the pi-rules pre-dict the wrong co-specifier.
To understand what ismeant by parallel structure, two simple cases, one inwhich the pi-rules do predict correctly, and another inwhich they fail, are discussed.
In D12, the pronounco-specifies with the mud pack, as the pi-rules wouldpredict.
The parallelism of these sentences is reflectedin the semantics of "put on" and "pull of f"  as well asin the similarity of the syntactic structure of the twosentences, each being in imperative mood.D12-1 Put the mud pack on your face.2 After 5 minutes, pull it off.The pi-rules predict the proper co-specif ier in D12because the thematic relations of the verb follow thesimilarity of structure.
However, in D13 below, thepronoun " i t"  co-specifies with rose and not with thegreen Whitierleaf (the pi-rule choice).
The  initialfocus after the first sentence is Whitierleaf, but theparallel syntactic structure of the sentences eems togovern a different choice of co-specifier.
To summa-rize, between similarity of structure and the pi-rules,similarity is preferred as a means of choosing a co-15 Hobbs 1979 defines a parallel relation between sentencessO and S1 of a discourse as occurring when propositions P0 and PI ,which follow from SO and S1 respectively, have identical predicates,and arguments that are similar (p. 76).
This concept of a parallelrelation seems related to my intuitive characterization, but as de-fined does not capture the cases I discuss.specifier, so when each gives a different prediction,similarity of structure must be used.D13-1 The green Whitierleaf is most commonlyfound near the wild rose.2 The wild violet is found near it too.At first glance it appears that the pi-rules could be" f ixed"  by simply observing that the initial focus iswrong and that a potential focus should be chosen.However, no such option is available, for such a " f ix"requires that the inference machine reject the initialfocus.
To do so, the inference mechanism needs someknowledge about the world that indicates the unac-ceptability.
For D13 no such knowledge could possi-bly be forthcoming since all the flora involved arefound near one another.
There is no knowledge to theeffect that violets are found near wild roses and notnear Whitierleafs.
t6Another example of parallel structures is shown inD14.
The parallel structures again are reflected in thesimilarity of the syntactic forms as well as the seman-tics of "most"  and "mine".
After D14-1, the initialfocus is the car radiator that is associated with eachcar of "most  cars."
Using the focusing rules, the pro-noun interpreter will take " i t "  to co-specify with thatradiator.
But this prediction is incorrect; " i t "  co-specifies with the radiator of the speaker's car/7D14-1 On most cars the radiator has a free bolt hook.2 But on mine, it has a floating bolt hook.The use of " i t"  here is similar to the instance of aprototype for " i t"  in D8.
The two discourse examplesdiffer because D14-2 has an underlying semantic formthat parallels D14-1.
D14-1 specifies a universal setof cars and says something about one of the parts forthose cars; D14-2 specifies a set of one thing, thespeaker's car, and says something about a part of it;the speaker's car is related to the universal car byinstantiation.
Thus " i t"  in D14-2 is not pointing tosome instance of the prototypic radiator; it co-specifies with the radiator of the speaker 's  car, but" i t"  is related intensionally to the "radiator"  in D14-1.
The similarity in the underlying semantics of D14-1and D14-2 must be used in interpreting the pronounuses .One might wish to construct some special-purposemechanism that looks for similarities in structure be-tween two sentences.
This method is doomed for tworeasons.
First, parallelism exists in many aspects oflanguage, and it happens at arbitrary levels of struc-16 In certain cases a special audience may have differentresponses to the parallelism above.
For example, botanists whoknow what flowers are near others might behave differently.
Buteven special audiences must sometimes use general techniques.Such is the case in the D13 example, because Whitierleafs exist onlyin my imagination.17 I thank R.C.
Moore for suggesting this example.228 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of Pronounsture rather than just syntactically.
Second, at anygiven level, the problem of recognition of parallelismhas plagued computational models of language sincesuch models were first suggested.
For example, pars-ing of English sentences containing conjunction is asyet an unsolved problem.
Methods tried, such asthose of Woods 1973 in LUNAR, fail because of over-generalization.
Proper computational recognition ofparallelism is still beyond the state of the art.The fact that interpretation of parallelism has failedfor other aspects of computational models of languageonly indicates that the problem is a deep one.
Theexample below is especially surprising because it dem-onstrates the use of parallel constructions that may befound between whole paragraphs in a discourse.
Theinterpretation of "the schedule," used anaphorically inD15-7, is not ambiguous between "SOL,"  which is akind of schedule, and the transmission schedule; read-ers recognize that the anaphor is unambiguous presum-ably because the process described in lines 5-7 paral-lels the one in lines 2-4.
Whatever the proper accountof parallelism for pronominal anaphora, it must also begeneralizable to account for this kind of example, t8D15-1 The SOL is searched for an entry for thesubscriber.2 If one is found, the subscriber's relativetransmission time is computed accordingto formula-1.3 The subscriber's clock transmission timeis computed according to formula-2.4 When the transmission time has beencomputed, it is inserted as the pri-mary entry in a transmission schedule.5 For each RATS entry, the RATS's rela-tive transmission time is computedaccording to formula-l ,6 and the RATS's clock transmission time iscomputed according to formula-2.7 The RATS transmission times are enteredinto the schedule.One possible consequence of these observationscould be that the focus mechanism should be aban-doned in favor of some as yet unspecified mechanismthat is able to determine parallel relations among setsof sentences in a discourse.
However, methods forinterpreting pronouns from parallel sentences and par-agraphs offer no constructive way of interpreting thepronouns in most of the examples presented in thispaper.
Many cases of co-specification occur wherethere is no similarity of structure other than the com-18 For easier understanding, the reader must know that theSOL has both subscriber and RATS entries.
This example comesfrom Balzer et al 1977, "Information in Program Specification,"Proceedings of the Fifth International Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, p. 394.mon subject-verb-object pattern typical of Englishsentences.
Since what is being talked about appears inmany constituent positions in sentences of a discourse,the S-V-O pattern is too gross a level to specify simi-larity.
Hence, while parallelism is needed to deal witha certain set of cases for which the pi-rules predictincorrectly, the pi-rules are effective for many othercases of co-specification where parallelism would notbe helpful.
One may conclude that focus mechanismsaccount for one aspect of pragmatic anaphora, andthat some different mechanism is needed to encodesimilarities in structure that sometimes occur in dis-course.
This paper does not give an account of such amechanism.
Rather, the examples above provide someadditional observations about the nature of parallelismin interpreting pronouns in natural anguages.9.
Conc lus ionsTwo claims have been substantiated in this paper.First, I have shown that focusing is compatible withlinguistic rules for disjoint reference, semantic selec-tional restrictions, and with representations delimitingquantifier scope.
Furthermore, these sources of infor-mation are necessary for the pronoun interpretationrules.Second, I have demonstrated that  focusing helpscontrol the inference process needed to interpret pro-nouns.
The pronoun interpreter predicts a co-specifierand then asks the inference machine for confirmation;when the machine finds a contradiction rather thanconsistency, the focusing process produces a new can-didate co-specifier.
In effect, the focusing process andthe inference machine collaborate on pronoun inter-pretation.
In previous AI natural language systems,interpretation resulted from binding of free variableswhen making inference; the inference process could becharacterized as one of proving a consequent from aset of premises.
However, because the consequent ofan inference rule contained free variables, many infer-ences had to be drawn and then "undone" during thesearch for a complete chain of inferences.
The focus-ing approach eliminates this kind of blind binding andunbinding as well as shortens the inference chainsearch.A part of this paper has described and illustratedhow the pronoun interpretation rules predict the co-specifiers of pronouns with both the actor and thediscourse focus, and indicated that both actor anddiscourse foci are necessary.
The rules show howmany constraints - -  syntactic, semantic, andpragmatic 19 - -  affect the choice of specification forpronouns; they also show how many kinds of informa-19 Phonological constraints have not been discussed in thispaper.
However, ules for contrastive stress and the like could beincorporated in the way that the other three classes are.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981 229Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of Pronounst ion about  the wor ld of the speaker  and hearer  p lay apart  in d ist inguish ing the co-spec i f i cat ions  of  pro-nouns.
By means of the discourse and actor  foci, thepi-rules d i f ferent ia l ly  apply the constraints;  the predic-t ions which result are tested in the database represent -at ion of the speaker  and hearer ' s  world.
Focus ingcaptures the effects of foregrounding (cf.
Chafe  1975)since focusing accounts  for the co-spec i f i cat ions  ofpronouns  by means of the foci, and focus movementindicates how new entit ies may be foregrounded andpronominal ized.In this paper  I have demonst ra ted  the types of ana-phor ic  uses that cannot  be expla ined by the focusingtheory.
These uses, the focus "popp ing"  cases de-scr ibed by Grosz,  and the paral le l ism cases, i l lustratethat in anaphor  interpretat ion,  other  kinds of processesthat  are computat iona l ly  rea l i zab le  and cont ro l lab leare needed.
Fur thermore ,  an adequate  syntact ic  theo-ry of forward co-speci f iers ,  which remains to be dis-covered,  must be incorporated  in the syntact ic  cr i ter iafor the pronoun in terpretat ion  rules.This paper  further specif ies the nature of focusingas it re lates to a theory  of p ronoun interpretat ion.
Afocus -based  theory  with st ipu lat ions for syntax,  se-mant ics  and in ferent ia l  knowledge,  prov ides  a pre-dict ive and exp lanatory  theory  of p ronoun interpreta-t ion.
The theory  is pred ic t ive  because  it s t ipu lateslegal and i l legal p ronoun uses as well as their  interpre-tat ions;  the l imits of its predict ive power  have beendemonst ra ted  as well.
The theory  is exp lanatory  be-cause several  observat ions  about  anaphora  in Engl ish,all crucial  to focusing theory,  can account  for each ofthe rules: that  pronouns  are signals of what  is beingdiscussed, that  whenever  the discussion changes,  pro-nouns must signal the new e lement  of discussion with-out confusion,  and that hearers  make use of syntact ic ,semant ic ,  and pragmat ic  knowledge in a cont ro l ledway in understand ing anaphors.
A theory  of anaphorin terpretat ion  d i f ferent  f rom the focusing theory  needsei ther to use these observat ions  in an account  of thefacts or to demonst ra te  why these observat ions  are notre levant  o the in terpretat ion  process.Append ix .
Pronoun In terpretat ion  RulesThe rules in this appendix  assume the avai labi l i ty ofan actor  focus, d iscourse focus,  potent ia l  actor  andpotent ia l  d iscourse foci.
The pronoun interpreter  ap-pl ies these rules in the order  given.Agent position pronouns1.
When a sentence in which a pronoun occurs is the sec-ond sentence of a new discourse, the recency rule maybe applied.
Recency rule: When a pronoun is in subjectposition and is the initial phrase in a sentence, and if amember of the potential (discourse or actor) foci occursas the last phrase in the previous sentence, test the pro-noun for co-specifying with that potential focus.2.
Theme rule: When the pronoun occurs in an embeddedsentence, if the embedded sentence is marked as havinga theme that is either the discourse or actor focus, testthe focus in that theme position as the co-specifier of thepronoun.3.
Potential actor ambiguity condition: Whenever a pronounmay co-specify the actor focus, and a single potentialactor exists, expect a possible ambiguity.
To resolve, (1)if there is evidence supporting the actor focus as theco-specifier, but not the potential actor, then the actorfocus is the co-specifier.
(2) When evidence supportsthe potential actor but not the actor focus, choose thepotential actor as the co-specifier.
(3) However, if thereis evidence for both, choose the actor focus but indicateambiguity.4.
Pronominalized actor focus rule: When the actor focuswas last mentioned with a pronoun, if the agent positionpronoun is of the same gender and person as the actorfocus, it must co-specify with the actor focus.
If it doesnot, a potential actor focus may be chosen, but the pro-noun use is odd.5.
Plural rule: If the pronoun in question is plural, whilethe actor focus is singular, test items in the following listfor co-specification: a non-specific reading of the focus(only for foci that specify non-human entities), actorfocus and potential actor foci, all the potential actor locitogether, the discourse focus, and the potential discoursefoci.6.
Basic rule: Test the actor foci as a co-specifier with apronoun in agent position followed by potential actorfoci.
If these fail, check the discourse focus, potentialdiscourse foci and actor focus stack.7.
Closure rule: Should all other rules fail, if the pronounoccurs in an introductory clause, expect a forward co-specifier.
If the pronoun is not in an introductoryclause, an instance of the missing co-specifier conditionhas occurred.Non-agent position pronouns1.
When a sentence in which a pronoun occurs is the sec-ond sentence of a new discourse, the recency rule maybe applied.
Recency rule: When a pronoun is in subjectposition and is the initial phrase in a sentence, and if amember of the potential (discourse or actor) foci occursas the last phrase in the previous sentence, test the pro-noun for co-specifying with that potential focus.2.
Basic rule: Check the discourse focus, followed by po-tential discourse foci, followed by the actor focus.3.
Plural pronoun rule: If the discourse focus is singularand the pronoun is plural, test the non-specific reading(only for foci that specify non-human entities) for co-specification, then potential discourse foci, followed bythe actor focus.4.
Focus related item rule: If some discourse entity hasbeen related to the focus during the discourse, test it forco-specifying with the pronoun in question.5.
Focus stack: Check items in the focus stack for co-specifying in last-in first-out order.6.
Closure rule: When all the above rules fail, if the pro-noun occurs in an introductory clause, expect a forwardco-specifier.
Otherwise the pronoun is an instance of amissing co-specifier.230 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981Candace L. Sidner Focusing for Interpretation of PronounsReferencesChafe, W. 1975 "Structures and Human Knowledge."
In J.B.Carroll and R.O.
Freedle (eds.
), Language Comprehension a dthe Acquisition of Knowledge.
V.H.
Winston and Sons, pp.
41-69.Charniak, E. 1972 "Toward a Model of Children's Story Compre-hension."
MIT AI Lab TR-266.Chomsky, N. 1976 "Conditions on Rules of Grammar."
LinguisticAnalysis 2(4), pp.
303-351.Deutsch, B.
1975 "Establishing Context in Task-Oriented Dia-logues."
Proceedings of the 13th Annual Meeting of ACL.
AJCLMicrofiche 35.Deutsch, B.
1974 "Typescripts of Task Oriented Dialogs."
Un-published manuscript, SRI International, Menlo Park, Calif.Doyle, Jon 1978 "Truth Maintenance Systems for Problem Solv-ing."
MIT AI Lab AI-TR-419, January.Fahlman, Scott E. 1977 "A System for Representing and UsingReal-World Knowledge."
MIT AI Lab A1-TR-450, December.Grosz, Barbara 1977 "The Representation a d Use of Focus inDialogue Understanding."
SRI Technical Note 151, MenloPark, California.Grosz, Barbara 1978 "Focusing in Dialog."
Tinlap-2: TheoreticalIssues in Natural Language Processing.
ACM and ACL, NewYork, 96-103.Grosz, Barbara 1981 "Focusing and Description in Natural Lan-guage Dialogues."
in Joshi, Sag and Webber (eds.)
Proceedingsof the Workshop on Computational Aspects of Linguistic Structureand Discourse Setting.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,pp.
84-105.Halliday, M.A.K.
1967 "Notes on Transitivity and Theme inEnglish."
Journal of Linguistics 3. pp.
117-274.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1976 "Pronoun Resolution."
Research Report#76-1, City College, City University of New York.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1977 "38 Examples of Elusive Antecedents fromPublished Texts."
Research Report #76-2, City College, CityUniversity of New York.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1979 "Coherence and Co-reference."
CognitiveScience.
3(1):67-90.Katz, Jerrold J.
& Fodor, Jerry A.
1963 "The Structure of aSemantic Theory."
Language.
39(2): 170-210.Lasnick, Howard 1976 "Remarks on Co-reference."
LinguisticAnalysis.
2(1):1-22.Lockman, Abe D. 1978 "Contextual Reference Resolution inNatural Language Processing."
Dept.
of Computer ScienceTR-70, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J.Marcus Mitchell 1980 "A Theory of Syntactic Recognition forNatural Language", MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.Martin, William 1979 "Roles, Co-Descriptors and the FormalRepresentation f Quantified English Expressions."
Laboratoryfor Computer Science, TM-139, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.Morgan, Jerry L. 1978 "Toward a Rational Model of DiscourseComprehension."
Tinlap-2: Theoretical Issues in Natural Lan-guage Processing.
ACM and ACL, New York, 109-114.McAllester, David A.
1978 "A Three Valued Truth MaintenanceSystem."
MIT AI Lab Memo 473, Cambridge, Mass., May.Partee, Barbara H. 1972 "Opacity, Co-reference and Pronouns.
"in Davidson and Harman (eds.)
Semantics of Natural Language.Reidel, Boston, pp.
415-441.Partee, Barbara H. 1978 "Bound Variables and Other Anaphors.
"Tinlap-2: Theoretical Issues in Natural Language Processing, 79-85, ACM and ACL, New York.Postal, P. 1969 "'Anaphoric Islands."
Proceedings of the FifthMeeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society.
Chicago, 5:205-239.Reichman, R. 1978 "Conversational Coherency."
CognitiveScience, 2(4):283-327.Reinhart, Tanya 1976 "The Syntactic Domain of Anaphora.
"unpublished Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Foreign Litera-ture and Linguistics, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.Reiger, Charles J.
1974 "Conceptual Memory: A Theory andComputer Program for Processing the Meaning Content ofNatural Language Utterances."
Stanford AI Lab Memo AIM-233.Robinson, Ann 1981 "Determining Verb Phrase Referents inDialogs," Am.
J. Comp.
Ling.
7(1):1-16.Sidner, C.L.
1979 "Towards a Computational Theory of DefiniteAnaphora Comprehension i  English Discourse."
MIT AI LabTechnical Report #537.Solan, Lawrence 1978 "Anaphora in Child Language."
Ph.D.dissertation, Dept.
of Linguistics, University of Massachusetts,Amherst (available through the Graduate Linguistic StudentAssociation, University of Massachusetts).Van Lehn, Kurt A.
1978 "Determining the Scope of EnglishQuantifiers."
MIT AI Lab AI-TR-483, Cambridge, Mass.Walker, Donald E.
(ed.)
1976 "Speech Understanding Research.
"Final Technical Repoi't, Project 4762.
AI Center, SRI Interna-tional, Menlo Park, Calif.Webber, Bonnie Lynn 1978 "A Formal Approach to DiscourseAnaphora."
Technical Report 3761, Bolt Beranek and NewmanInc., Cambridge, Mass.Winograd, Terry 1972 Understanding Natural Language.
AcademicPress, New York.Woods, William 1973 "An Experimental Parsing System forTransition Network Grammars."
in Rustin (ed.)
Natural Lan-guage Processing.
Algorithmics Press, New York, pp.
111-154.Woods, William et al 1976 "Speech Understanding Systems: FinalTechnical Progress Report - 30 October 1974 through 29 Octo-ber 1976."
Technical, Report 3438, Bolt Beranek and NewmanInc., Cambridge, Mass.Candy Sidner is a Scientist in the Department o fArtif icial Intelligence at Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.She received the Ph.D. in computer science f rom M.I .T.in 1979.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 4, October-December 1981 231
