Determining Verb Phrase Referents  in Dialogs IAnn E. RobinsonArtificial Intell igence CenterSRI InternationalMenlo Park, California 94025This paper discusses two problems central to the interpretation of utterances: deter-mining the relationship between actions described in an utterance and events in the world,and inferring the "state of the world" from utterances.
Knowledge of the language,knowledge about the general subject being discussed, and knowledge about the currentsituation are all necessary for this.
The problem of determining an action referred to by averb phrase is analogous to the problem of determining the object referred to by a nounphrase.This paper presents an approach to the problem of determining verb phrase referents inwhich knowledge about language, the subject area, and the dialog itself is combined tointerpret such references.
Presented and discussed are the kinds of knowledge necessaryfor interpreting references to actions, as well as algorithms for using that knowledge ininterpreting dialog utterances about ongoing tasks and for drawing inferences about thetask situation that are based on a given interpretation.1.
IntroductionThis paper discusses two problems central to theinterpretation of utterances: determining the relation-ship between actions described in an utterance andevents in the world, and inferring the current world-state from utterances.
Knowledge of the language,knowledge about the general subject area, and knowl-edge about the current situation are all necessary forthis.
The problem of determining an action referred toby a verb phrase is analogous to the problem of deter-mining the object referred to by a noun phrase.
Al-though considerable attention has been given to thelatter (Donellan, 1977; Grosz, 1977a, 1977b; Sidner,1979; Webber, 1978), little has been done with theformer.
2The need to identify an action is obvious in utter-ances containing verbs like "do",  "have",  and "use",as in " I 've done it", "what tool should I use?
", or "I1 This research has been funded under three-year NSF Con-tinuing Research Grant No.
MCS76-22004.
This paper and theresearch reported in it have benefited from interactions with all themembers of the natural language research group at SRI.
BarbaraGrosz, Jerry Hobbs, Gary Hendrix, and Jane Robinson have beenparticularly helpful in the preparation of the paper.2 A problem related to determining verb phrase referents - -interpreting verb phrase ellipsis - -  has been investigated by Webber(1978).have it".
In these utterances the verb does not namethe action, but rather refers to it more generally, muchas pronouns or "nonspecif ic" nouns (e.g., "thing")refer to objects.
Even when more specific verbs areused, complex reasoning may be required to ascertainthe particular action being referred to.
For example,the utterance " I 've glued the pieces together" canrefer to different steps in a task - -  depending on whatobjects "the pieces" refers to, because each gluingaction is a different step.
Similarly, the verb "cut"refers to different types of cutting actions when usedwith different objects, as in "cut grass", "cut wood",or "cut cake" (Searle, 1978).A variant of this problem is deciding whether averb is intended to refer to a general or a specific ac-tion.
For example, "cutting wood" can refer to thegeneral activity of cutting many pieces of wood or itcan refer to the action of cutting a particular piece.
(Werner, 1966)This paper presents an approach to these problemsin which knowledge about language, the subject area,and the dialog itself is combined to interpret refer-ences by verbs.
Presented and discussed are the kindsof knowledge necessary for interpreting references toactions, as well as algorithms for using that knowledgein interpreting dialog utterances about ongoing tasksCopyright 1981 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is grantedprovided that the copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the Journal reference and this copyright notice are included onthe first page.
To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or  specific permission.0362-613 X /81 /010001-16501.00Amer ican  Journal  of  Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981 1Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogsand for drawing inferences about the task situationthat are based on a given interpretation.
The algor-ithms have been implemented and tested in a computersystem (TDUS) that participates in a dialog about theassembly of an air compressor (Robinson et al, 1980).The system acts as an expert, guiding an apprenticethrough the steps of the task.
The knowledge availa-ble will be described first, followed by a detailed de-scription of the algorithms for verb interpretation,then by a discussion of a sample dialog in which thesystem participated.2.
Knowledge NeededInterpreting any utterance and relating it to a taskrequires knowledge about the language and the task,as well as the relationships between them.
This paperwill concentrate on knowledge needed to identify ac-tions.
It builds directly on the concepts of global andimmediate focusing, through which certain entities arehighlighted (Grosz, 1977a, 1977b, 1978; Sidner,1979).
General familiarity with that research will beassumed.
More detailed descriptions of other aspectsof the knowledge needed for interpreting utterancescan be found elsewhere (Grosz, 1977a; Hendrix,1977, 1979; Robinson et al, 1980; J. Robinson,1980).2.1 Act ions  and EventsInterpreting verb phrases requires knowing aboutevents that have occurred, are occurring, or can occur.Such knowledge typically includes the steps necessaryto perform the actions associated with the events, thepossible participants, the conditions that must be truebefore the actions can be performed, and their effects.Knowledge about actions and events includes bothgeneral knowledge about possible actions and eventsand more specific knowledge about those that occurduring a particular task.We have developed a formalism, process models, forencoding information about actions (Grosz et al,1977).
This formalism enables the specification of ahierarchical decomposition of actions into subactions,as well as the description of individual types of ac-tions.
It is an extension of the network formalismused for representing other knowledge about objectsand relationships, as described by Hendrix (1979).The description of each action type includes informa-tion about its participating actors and objects, thepreconditions for its enactment,  its effects, and thealternat ive sequences of substeps that may be follow e dto accomplish it.
A sequence of substeps may be par-tially ordered.
This decomposition of actions buildsupon earlier research on the hierarchical decomposi-tion of the planning process (Sacerdoti, 1977) andupon the work by Hendrix (1973, 1975) on modelingactions and processes.
Many of the actions for apump-assembly task have been encoded in this formal-ism for use in the TDUS system.Figure 1 illustrates a process model for a pump-attaching process.
The network node ATTACHPUMP represents the set of pump-attaching actions.The large box depicts a separate space in the networkin which the schema of the ATTACH PUMP action isrepresented.
The DELIN arc links the schema to theATTACH PUMP node.
The schema specifies theparticipants in the attach operation, marked by theMAJORPART,  M INORPART,  and AGENT arcs.The description of the action, an element of the set ofEVENT DESCRIPT IONS,  includes the PRECONDI -T IONS that must be true for the action to be per-formed, the EFFECTS of performing the action, andthe PLOT or steps by which the action is performed.Each step in the plot (encoded on a separate space) isin turn further described by a process model.
In thisexample, the substeps of attaching are positioning andbolting the pump.
Their ordering is indicated by theSUC (successor) link.
The plot steps have many ofthe same participants as the main action.
In additionthe second plot step, "secure with bolts", introducesanother set of participants, BOLTS, indicated by theFASTENER arc.During a task, a record of progress is kept by fillingin, or instantiating, the schema for an action as thataction is performed and then incorporating the newlycreated piece of network into the model of the currentsituation.
Records of actions are linked both tempo-rally by a time lattice and through their taxonomicrelationships with other events and objects in the task.Each instantiated action has associated with it a timeinterval.
The interval can be past, present, or future,and it can be bounded by two times: a start time andan end time.
For events treated as points, the startand end times are identical.
For events whose startand/or  end time is not precisely known, the valuesmay be left unspecified or represented by parametersthat are bounded above and/or  below by knownpoints in the time lattice.Once an instance of an event is recorded, it can beused in subsequent deductions and is available foranswering questions about past events.
This providesa means of maintaining an up-to-date record of assem-bly progress.
Such a record comprises an essentialpart of the domain context within which utterances areinterpreted and questions answered.
At any givenmoment the domain context indicates what assemblyactions have already occurred (and in what order),what actions are in progress, and what actions can beinitiated next.We have developed procedures for reasoning aboutprocess models.
These procedures build upon thosethat embody general knowledge about logical deduc-tion (Fikes and Hendrix, 1977).
These new proce-2 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogsa goal is current or achieved, and how goals are repre-sented.
4 In the following sections, we will see howthese goals are used for interpreting verbs.2.2.1 Recognizing Goals in TDUSThe TDUS system handles two kinds of goals: do-main goals and certain knowledge-state goals.
Domaingoals concern states to be achieved by task-relatedactions, while knowledge-state goals concern states tobe achieved by acquiring a specific piece of informa-tion.Figure 2 illustrates the relationship between actionsand goals.
The hierarchy shown is a simplification ofa portion of the assembly task hierarchy currentlyencoded in TDUS.
5 Each node represents an actionand its associated goal.
The hierarchy encodes thesubstep relationships: child nodes represent substepsof their parent nodes.
The top-level node in the tree,node 1, represents the action of attaching a pumpwhose associated goal is that the pump be attached.Nodes 2 and 3 represent substeps of this attachingprocess - -  the actions of positioning the pump andtightening the bolts, with the associated goals that thepump be positioned and that the bolts be tight.
Theaction of locating bolts represented by node 4 is notan explicit step in the task, but is necessary for itsperformance.
Node 4 has an associated knowledge-state goal: "know the location of the bolts".
Allthese goals have associated actions that, in the processmodel formalism, are specific instantiations of actions,not action schemata.We distinguish two classes of goals: direct goalsachieved by actions the apprentice has explicitly orimplicitly said are being performed now or have beenperformed and potential goals mentioned by either par-ticipant that have not been acted upon but might possi-bly be.
Both domain and knowledge-state goals can beeither direct or potential although the current imple-mentation of TDUS does not support potentialknowledge-state goals.In the context of the task steps shown in Figure 2,"I am attaching the pump" states that an attachingaction (node 1), is being performed.
This establishesthe direct domain goal that the pump be attached.
"Should I tighten the bolts?"
indicates that the tight-ening action (node 3) might be performed, establishingthe potential domain goal that the bolts be tight.4 The current implementation of goals in TDUS is an exten-sion and partial revision of one by Sidner described in her disserta-tion (1979).5 Although the assembly task currently encoded in TDUSinvolves strong structuring of actions and goals, the representationsand procedures we have developed are applicable to less structuredsubject areas.
(2)I(1)I ATTACH PUMPgoal: ATTACHED(4)POSITION PUMPgoal: IN POSITIONTIGHTEN BOLTSgoal: TIGHTILOCATE BOLTSgoal: KNOW LOCATIONFigure 2.
Goal/action tree.A direct knowledge-state goal can be established,for example, by the utterance "where are the bolts?
",which establishes the knowledge-state goal "know thelocation of the bolts" (node 4).
A potentialknowledge-state goal would be established by an utter-ance such as " I 'd  like to read more Plato" which im-plies the potential knowledge-state goal of knowingmore about the philosophy of Plato.Direct and potential goals are distinguished fromone another because of the different roles they play inthe interpretation of verbs.
Basically, direct goals arethose that are known to be current or former goalsassociated with actions that are being or have beenperformed.
Potential goals are possible near-termgoals associated with possible future actions.
Depend-ing on the type of utterance, one or the other class ofgoal might be considered first.
The different roles ofthe two goal classes will be illustrated when the inter-pretation of verbs is discussed in detail in Section 3.In the TDUS system, a potential goal can be intro-duced either by the apprentice who is performing thetask or by the system which is acting as an expertadvisor.
These goals can be introduced in at leastthree different ways.
(1) The apprentice can introduce a potential goalby mentioning a possible future action, while not ex-plicitly stating that it will be performed.
This distin-guishes between "I am going to take the lid off now"and "should I take the lid off now?"
The former ex-presses a direct goal because the speaker explicitlysays s /he  is planning to perform the action.
The latterexpresses a potential goal because the speaker has notmade a commitment o performing the action, butimplies that s /he might.
When a potential action ismentioned in this way, if it is an appropriate next step4 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogsin the task the system will establish the associated goalas a potential goal.
For example,"Should I tighten the bolts now?
"will cause the system to establish the potential goal"that the bolts be tight" if the appropriate reply is"yes".
(2) The expert can introduce a potential goal bytelling the apprentice what actions to perform.
Thegoal is potential and not direct, because the expertcannot, on the basis of the utterance alone, assumethat the apprentice will perform the action.
For exam-ple, the expert's reply to"What should I do now?
"will cause establishment of the potential goal - -  orgoals if there are multiple possibilities - -  associatedwith the action in the reply.
(3) The apprentice can also introduce a potentialgoal by indirectly mentioning an action in the task.For example, if the apprentice says"I found the pulley.
"in a situation in which one of the next steps is to in-stall the pulley, but neither the installation nor thepulley has been mentioned before, the potential goal"that the pulley be installed" will be inferred from thereference to the pulley and the knowledge that it is apossible next step.
This forward reference to an ob-ject implicitly focuses the object and the step it isassociated with.
Previously, algorithms for shiftingfocus caused a shift to the step associated with theobject (Grosz, 1977b).
However, this is problematicbecause the speaker may not intend to perform thestep or even discuss it, but rather intends to talk aboutthe object.
Establishing the step in which the objectparticipates as a potential goal highlights the step butdoes not force a shift of focus to it.
This change hasproved to be important, as will be seen during discus-sion of the algorithm.Utterances can introduce direct and potential goalssimultaneously.
In the examples in items 1 and 2above, direct knowledge-state goals are also beingintroduced.
In particular, the knowledge-state goalsare "knowing whether tightening the bolts is the nextstep" and "knowing the action to perform".2.2.2 Recogniz ing the State  of a GoalAs important as recognizing a goal, is recognizingwhether the goal is the current one, one that has al-ready been achieved, or one that has been abandoned.Recognizing when goals are no longer potential is alsoimportant.m direct goal is assumed to be current when anutterance states that an action that will achieve thegoal is in progress.achieved eitherA goal is assumed to have been(1) when an explicit statement such as "Ihave attached it" or " I 'm done" or"OK ''6 indicates the completion of theaction achieving the goal;(2) when an explicit statement indicates anaction intended to achieve the goal isfinished; or(3) when the start of a new action impliescompletion of the current one and thusachievement of the associated goal.
7A goal is assumed to have been abandoned followingan utterance such as "never mind".Potential goals cannot be achieved as such.
Rath-er, they can either become direct goals through themechanisms for establishing direct goals or they disap-pear when a new potential goal is recognized.2.2.3 Represent ing  Goals  in TDUSThe structure of goals in a dialog about a task isrelated both to the structure of the task and to thestructure of the dialog.
The structure of tasks and thestructure of dialogs have been discussed elsewhere(Grimes, 1980; Grosz, 1977a, 1977b, 1978; Hobbs,1978; Reichman, 1978; Sacerdoti, 1977; Sidner, 1979;Wilensky, 1978).
Open questions remain about thestructure of the goals that arise and how they shouldbe represented.In TDUS direct goals are represented in a singlelist, acting like a last- in-f irst-out stack.
Bothknowledge-state and domain goals are entered on thesame list.
This simplification has proved adequate forcurrent purposes.In general, there can be only one potential goal at atime.
The exception is when two possible actions areintroduced at once, as in "install the aftercooler orinstall the brace".
Because it is simplest to view apotential goal as a single item, hereafter eferences tothe potential goal can be read as referring to the possi-ble conjunction or disjunction of potential goals whenappropriate.2.3 Knowledge about LanguageTo interpret verbs and infer the current task anddialog situation, the knowledge outlined above must becombined with knowledge about the language includ-ing what is generally characterized as syntactic, se-mantic, and discourse knowledge.6 See the discussion in Grosz (1977a) of the roles of OK.7 As Sidner (1979) points out, in the first two cases theinformation comes from the utterance, while in the third case it isfrom the task model.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981 5Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogs2.3.1 Syntactic KnowledgeOne of the most important elements of syntacticknowledge necessary for interpreting verbs - -  and theone discussed here - -  is knowledge about tense andaspect.
Tense and aspect are used to indicate therelative time of an event and whether it is or was oc-curring or completed.Tense and aspect are indicated syntactically byauxiliaries and/or  certain verb forms.
In TDUS, utter-ances are analyzed and marked for tense (past, pres-ent, or future) and for progressive (event in progress)and perfective (event completed) aspect.The following are some examples of the verb formsTDUS can interpret alng with their tense and aspectmarkings:I am going.I had gone.I had been going.I will be going.present, progressivepast, perfectivepast, perfective, progressivefuture, progressiveIn determining referents, the tense and aspect ofthe utterance restrict the alternatives within the taskmodel and limit the goals that might be considered.Generally, present tense and progressive aspect areused when referring to a new action, indicating that ithas been started.
Only if the utterance is somehowmarked, as in " I 'm sti l l  tightening the bolts", will theverb phrase refer to an action that already has beenmentioned as in progress.
Similarly, past tense and/orperfect aspect indicate that an action has been fin-ished.
However,  the hearer may or may not haveknown that the action was in progress.So far, we have considered primarily verbs thatrefer to events rather than states, and to the usagethat is most common in dialogs about tasks, such asreferences to single occurrences of actions.
However,the analysis and representat ion are compatible withanalyses that consider other kinds of usage (Leech,1976).2.3.2 Semantic KnowledgeThe interpretation of references to actions andevents requires knowledge of the relationship betweenwords for actions or events and the internal represent-ations of the corresponding classes of actions orevents; s it also requires knowledge of the relationshipbetween nouns and entities in the domain.
For exam-ple, the "SELL ING"  action is an action whose partici-pants include a buyer, seller, some object being sold,and some money.
Semantic knowledge about sellingwould include the information that for an utterance8 Note that at the beginning of a dialog only the relationshipsbetween words and classes of concepts is known.
The problemaddressed here is how to identify the particular action or eventreferenced in a particular utterance.whose main verb is "sell" in the active voice, the syn-tactic subject is the "seller" in a selling event, thesyntactic object is the item sold, the indirect object isthe one to whom the item is sold, and the object ofthe "for" preposition is the selling price.
The infor-mation necessary to make this mapping and to buildthe appropriate representat ion is encoded with theverb.
(Hendrix in Walker, 1978; Konolige, 1979).2.3.3 Discourse KnowledgeDiscourse knowledge is knowledge about how thedomain and dialog contexts in which an utterance oc-curs contribute to and are influenced by the interpre-tation of the utterance.
Although we have included ithere under knowledge about language, discourseknowledge may be viewed as spanning knowledgeabout language and about the domain.2.3.3.1 FocusingDuring a dialog, the participants focus their atten-tion on only a small portion of what each of themknows or believes.
Both what is said and how it isinterpreted epend on a shared understanding of thisnarrowing of attention to a small highlighted portionof what is known.Focusing is an active process.
As a dialog prog-resses, the participants continually shift their focus andthus form an evolving context within which utterancesare produced and interpreted.
A speaker provides ahearer with clues of what to look at and how to lookat it - -  what to focus on, how to focus on it, and howwide or narrow the focusing should be.
We have de-veloped a representat ion for discourse focusing (orglobal focusing), procedures for using it in identifyingobjects referred to by noun phrases, and proceduresfor detecting and representing shifts in focusing(Grosz, 1977a, 1977b, 1978, 1980).Focused objects are highlighted in the networkmodel by placing them in separate "focus spaces".Several focused objects may appear in one space.
Fo-cus spaces are arranged in a hierarchy that reflects thedegree of focusing.
The most prominent space is con-sidered primary focus.
As focusing shifts, the hier-archy is changed accordingly and new spaces may becreated for the newly highlighted objects, while oldones may disappear.In addition to global focusing, we have incorporat-ed the concept of immediate focus (Sidner, 1979)through which one entity among those focused is sin-gled out.
This is a more localized focusing phenome-non that is closely related to the use and recognitionof anaphora, as well as to changes in global focusing.The notion of focusing has been used elsewhereand is related to notions such as topic, comment, giv-en, and new.
Each of these reflects an attempt to6 American Journal  of Computat iona l  Linguistics.
Volume 7, Number 1.
January-March 1981Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogsidentify the roles of certain sentential elements withina discourse.
See Sidner (1979) for a discussion of therelationship between focus and these other concepts.2.3.3.2 Common-background and CommunicatedKnowledgeIn our framework, the dialog participants are as-sumed to share knowledge about processes in the taskmodel 9 and the history of the task performed to date,along with knowledge about direct and potential goalsand focused entities.
We view this shared knowledgeas composed of at least two parts: (1) common-background knowledge - -  knowledge about the worldthat is assumed to be shared by the participants inde-pendently of the dialog, based on their common back-ground and experience, such as the processes in thetask model and the history of its performance; (2)communicated knowledge - -  knowledge about the goalsand focusing, which is assumed to be shared as a resultof the dialog.
The steps of the task that are explicitlymentioned are communicated knowledge, as are otherfocused entities that have been mentioned.
We willdistinguish these two types of shared knowledge andtheir roles in the interpretation of utterances.We distinguish as communicated knowledge essen-tially what Clark and Marshall (1980) distinguish asthe mutual knowledge that results from "linguisticco-presence."
Our use of the term common-background knowledge covers the mutual knowledgethey describe as resulting from "cultural co-presence"and a limited form of "physical co-presence".To help clarify our distinction between common-background and communicated knowledge, consider adialog about assembling a pump.
The dialog partici-pants share knowledge about actions used in assembly(inserting objects, tightening bolts), about parts (nuts,bolts, washers), about tools, and about terminology fortalking about them.
All this is common at the begin-ning of the dialog.
During the dialog additionalknowledge is communicated.
Consider the followingexchange between an expert (E) and an apprentice(A):E: First, put the bolts in the holes.A: How many and what size?E: 4 bolts, each 3 /4" .A: OK.A: They're in.Common-background knowledge here includes know-ing about aligning holes and inserting bolts.
Following9 Note that the apprentice knows neither all the steps in thetask nor their ordering - -  otherwise there would be no need for theexpert.
However, the apprentice does know how to perform mostof the basic actions, such as bolting and tightening.the expert's first utterance it has become communicat-ed knowledge that the first step is to put the bolts inthe holes and that doing so is a potential goal of theapprentice.
The expert's second utterance communi-cates the fact that 4 bolts should be used.
Theapprentice's response then adds to communicatedknowledge the fact that the action has taken place.The fact that the holes were aligned and the properbolts found can be assumed by the expert, drawing onknowledge of the task.
Since these actions were notmentioned, they are part of common-backgroundknowledge but not communicated.Assumptions about things that are communicatedknowledge play a critical role in the interpretation andproduction of utterances (Clark and Marshall, 1980),as the use of anaphora illustrates.
Pronouns and pro-verbs (when used felicitously) always refer to conceptsin communicated knowledge, so that any utterancecontaining a pronoun or pro-verb must draw uponcommunicated knowledge.
In the example above, ifthe apprentice's second utterance had been " I 'm put-ting them in now" followed by "I 've done it", the "it"could have referred only to the insertion step, whichhas been communicated, not to any substep which hasnot been.A similar observation about the use of anaphorahas been made by Hankamer and Sag (1976).
Theydifferentiate the linguistic and nonlinguistic compo-nents of communicated knowledge, using the term"pragmatic environment" to refer to the nonlinguisticenvironment - -  which is limited in our situation sincethere is no shared visual information.
Hankamer andSag state that "the conditions on insertion (and inter-pretation) are that the speaker presumes the contentof the anaphor to be recoverable, either from linguisticcontext (in which case the anaphor has an 'antecedent'in linguistic structure, a fully specified linguistic formwith the same semantic ontent) or from the pragmaticenvironment."
(Pg.
422).
The algorithms we havedeveloped for interpreting verbs draw on these obser-vations and distinguish between utterances containingand not containing anaphora, relying more heavily oncommunicated knowledge when anaphora is present.Entities that form part of communicated knowledgecan  be referred to anaphorically, but they are not al-ways, as is demonstrated by the use of definite nounphrases to refer to focused objects.
In the foregoingexample, the bolts are focused and are thus part ofcommunicated knowledge after the expert's first utter-ance - -  but when the expert refers to them the secondtime, a noun phrase is used instead of a pronoun.
Thedegree of focusing, which influences the choice ofanaphora or a definite noun phrase to refer to someentity in communicated knowledge, has been discussedelsewhere (Sidner, 1979; Grosz, 1977b; Reichman,1978).American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981 7Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in DialogsWhen referring to something not assumed to becommunicated knowledge, a speaker not only cannotuse anaphora, but must draw on other shared knowl-edge and supply enough information to enable thehearer to interpret the reference correctly.
In ourexample, if the apprentice had asked where to find thebolts, the expert could have said "in the cabinet",assuming the apprentice was generally familiar withthe surroundings and knew where the cabinet was.The expert could not have said "in it" unless the cabi-net had already been mentioned and comprised a high-ly focused part of communicated knowledge.3.
Determin ing Verb Phrase ReferentsIn this section we address issues that arise in apply-ing domain and linguistic knowledge to interpret verbphrases and to infer the current situation on the basisof the interpretation.
Many of the examples in thissection are taken from the sample dialog in Section 4.The possible referents of a verb phrase are con-strained by both the context and the utterance itself.Coordination of the constraints is necessary for inter-preting verbs.
Contextual constraints are derived fromtwo sources: the dialog and the subject area, particu-larly the task being performed.
Utterance constraintsare derived from the syntax and semantics, particularlytense and aspect information and the type of actiondenoted by the verb.The search for the referent of a verb phrase can beconducted either top-down or bottom-up.
The top-down search uses contextual constraints to find theplace in the task that the utterance fits and it usesutterance constraints to limit alternatives.
Thebottom-up mode uses information from the utterance,such as verb type, to find its relationship to the task.If the top-down search is successful, the action and itsplace in the task are identified simultaneously.For the assembly dialogs in which all the utterancesare directly related to the task and in which the systemhas already encoded all the relevant steps to be per-formed, top-down constraints are strong enough toallow a top-down search to be conducted first - -  andonly if that fails is a bottom-up search conducted.
Indialogs where less structure is provided by the task, abottom-up search will clearly play a more central role.This search can be improved by more extensive rea-soning based on the verb in the utterance.One of the limitations of our previous natural-language systems has  been a lack of coordination ofthe strategies for identifying referents of noun phrasesand pronouns with one another or with the interpreta-tion of the verb.
In fact, except for the pronoun reso-lution procedure that used a very simple goal recogni-tion algorithm (Sidner, 1979), the verb phrase was noteven taken into account.
However, since the interpre-ration of each of these utterance elements cannot becarried out in isolation, the procedures for identifyingnoun phrase and pronoun referents described in Grosz(1977a) and Sidner (1979) have been modified tocoordinate the search for noun phrase and anaphoricreferents with the search for the verb phrase referent.3.1 The Top-down AlgorithmDifferent types of utterances can draw upon differ-ent contextual constraints.
Three major factors areconsidered by the interpretation algorithm in determin-ing which contextual constraints to draw upon.
Thefactors are: (1) whether or not a pronoun is presentin the utterance; (2) whether or not all the nounphrases in the utterance refer to focused entities; and(3) whether or not the main verb is "do".
For thefirst factor, the presence of a pronoun indicates thatcommunicated knowledge, particularly goals and im-mediate focus, is being drawn upon.
If no pronoun ispresent, these factors may still be relevant but otherfactors weigh more heavily in determining constraints.For the second factor, when all the definite nounphrases refer to focused entities, focusing informationis also key in interpreting the verb.
If not all the re-ferents are focused, knowledge about the task and itsstructure must be used.
For the third factor, when"do" appears as the main verb, communicated knowl-edge plays a more central role than when other verbsare used.
The particular usage of "do",  as signalledby the other constituents, indicates which aspects ofcommunicated knowledge are most important.We will discuss the interpretation algorithm byexamining the interpretation of utterances resultingfrom various combinations of these factors.
The utter-ances we will discuss are those containing the verb"do",  those containing verbs other than "do" andpronouns, and those containing verbs other than "do"and definite noun phrases.Within the first type of utterances, those containing"do",  we further distinguish utterances like " I 've doneit" from utterances like " I 've done the screws."
In theformer, "do" refers to the general action of perform-ing an action and "it" refers to the action.
In thelatter, "do" refers to a particular action, such as"remove".
Our discussion will first cover these twotypes of utterances containing "do",  then utteranceswith other verbs and pronouns, then utterances withother verbs and definite noun phrases.3.1.1 Do and PronounsIn interpreting verb phrases such as "do it", knowl-edge about the context is used first to determine possi-ble referents.
If " it" has been used felicitously, itmust refer to an action in communicated knowledge.As we have discussed, communicated knowledge inTDUS is represented by goals and focusing.
Goals are8 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number  1, January-March 1981Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogsa subset of all focused entities and, by definition,those actions that could possibly be performed by theapprentice.
Consequently, possible referents are con-tained in the subset of communicated knowledge rep-resented by the most current direct goals and by thepotential goal.The main utterance constraints are derived fromthe tense and aspect, which limit the goals whose asso-ciated actions could be referents.
The three cases wedistinguish are past tense, present tense and prog-ressive aspect, and future tense.Past-tense utterances can refer to either direct orpotential goals.
For such utterances, the algorithmexamines the most recent direct goal first.
If it is as-sociated with a task-related action (i.e., not aknowledge-state goal), the action is taken to be thereferent of "it" because it is the action known to be inprogress.
Utterance 10 from the sample dialog illus-trates such a reference to a task goal.A: I 'm do ing  the brace  now.
(9)E: OKA: I 've done it.
(10)Here "it" refers to the action of installing the brace,the action associated with the current goal.Because of current implementation restrictions, themost recent direct goal is not considered as a referentif it is a knowledge-state goal.
Instead, the actionassociated with the potential goal is taken to be theone referred to since it is always an action of thetask.10 Clearly, if potential goals were extended toinclude knowledge-state goals, a more sophisticatedtest would be required.Utterances 12 through 15 from the sample dialogillustrate reference to a potential goal.A: What  shou ld  I do now (12)E: Insta l l  the a f te rcoo ler  e lbowon the pump.A: I 've done it (13)E: OKA: Shou ld  I insta l l  the a f te rcoo ler  (14)E: yesA: I 've done it (15)The apprentice's utterance 12 establishes a directknowledge-state goal of knowing what action to per-form, while the expert's reply establishes a potentialgoal that the aftercooler elbow be installed.
Utterance10 This is a limitation that should be removed as linguistic andrepresentational capabilities improve.
An example of "it" referringto a knowledge-state goal would be "I wanted to learn Spanish andI've done it", where the goal was a knowledge-state goal of'KNOWING SPANISH'.13 refers to the potential goal.
Utterance 14 similarlyestablishes a direct knowledge-state goal of knowingabout the action - -  in this case, whether the action isinstalling the aftercooler; here the apprentice's utter-ance establishes the potential goal that the aftercoolerbe installed.
Utterance 15 refers again to the potentialgoal.An utterance that is present-tense and progressive(e.g., " I 'm doing it") refers to an action that has beenpreviously mentioned but only just started.
As wehave seen, a potential goal is associated with such anaction, so that the latter is taken as the referent.
Forexample, utterance 15 could have been " I 'm doing it",referring to the action of installing the aftercooler.For a question referring to a future or a hypotheti-cal action (e.g., "What should I do now?
"),  no attemptis made to identify the action as part of the interpreta-tion.
Instead, the reasoning process makes use of thetask model to identify the appropriate reply.3.1.2 Do and Def in i te Noun PhrasesFor the use of "do" in which "do" refers to anaction (e.g., " I 'm doing the screws"), the hearer mustbe able to infer the action from the context.
One caseof this is when the action type is part of communicat-ed knowledge but no specific action is being referredto.
For example in the sequence:I 've a t tached the pump.I 'm do ing  the pu l ley  now.the first utterance adds the attaching action for thepump to communicated knowledge.
In the secondutterance, "do" refers to another attaching action, butthis one is attaching the pulley, a separate action.
"Do" is not referring to the same specific action, butrather to the same type of action, "attaching".There are other occurrences of "do" in which theaction is implicit from the context and the action typehas not been mentioned.
The algorithm currently onlyhandles the situation in which the action type has beenmentioned.To interpret hese utterances, the contextual knowl-edge used is communicated knowledge and knowledgeabout the task.
The communicated knowledge used isfocusing information, because an action of the sametype as the one referred to should be focused, it Theinterpretation algorithm searches among focused ac-tions to find one that is of a type capable of havingthe newly mentioned participating objects.
For exam-ple, the algorithm might find "attach pump" as a fo-cused action, determine that it is an "attach" and thenIt Goal information could be used by examining the types ofthe actions associated with domain goals.
However, access to theaction type is more direct through focusing information.American Journal of Computat iona l  Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981 9Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogsthat a pulley can also participate in an "attach" action.If an action is found, task knowledge is used to deter-mine if an action of that type with the participantsindicated is an appropriate action in the current situa-tion.
Thus, if attach + pulley is an appropriate action,"attach pulley" is taken as the referent of "do".Tense and aspect information from the utterancehelp determine which actions in the task model areappropriate.
As we noted, a present-progressive utter-ance indicates initiation of a new step, whereas thepast tense could be used either with a new step or withone in progress.Utterances 8 and 9 of the sample dialog illustrate arelated situation.A: Shou ld  I insta l l  the pu l ley  now (8)E: No.
The next  step is:ins ta l l  the a f te rcoo ler  e lbowon the pump, orinsta l l  the brace  on the pump.A: I 'm do ing  the brace  now (9)Here two steps have been mentioned and are essential-ly equally focused and both potential goals, so "do it"could not refer unambiguously to one of the actions.However, both actions are "install" actions, so "do"can refer to an "install" type action.
The interpreta-tion algorithm outlined above works for this case aswell.3.1.3 Pronouns w i th  Verbs Other Than DoFor utterances containing verbs other than "do"and pronouns, contextual constraints also stem fromcommunicated knowledge, since the object or objectsreferred to by the pronoun must be communicatedknowledge - -  in our case, mentioned in the dialog.The way the referent of the pronoun was introducedinto the dialog affects the interpretation of utteranceswith pronouns.
The distinction we make is whetherthe object was  mentioned as a participant in an actionthat is part of the task, (e.g., "I attached the pump.
")or was  not  mentioned as a participant in an action(e.g., "Where is the pump?").
In the first case, if theobject has been mentioned as participating in an ac-tion, the action will be recognized as a direct or poten-tial goal and all its participating objects will be fo-cused.
In the second case, if no action has been men-tioned but the object is a participant in some taskaction, the action will be inferred through thepotential-goal recognition mechanism and will becomea potential goal.
However, in this case only the objectmentioned will be focused and not the other partici-pants in the action.
An example of the second case is:Where are the bolts?\[Immediate focus = bolts\]\[Potential goal = THE BOLTS ARE BOLTED\]I've tightened them with the wrench.\[with the wrench not in focus\]In this situation, the first reference to the bolts hasestablished the potential goal that the bolts be bolted.In both these situations the object mentioned isfocused and, when appropriate, an action it partici-pates in is established as a goal.
The difference be-tween the two is whether the actions and the otherparticipating objects are also focused.
This differenceaffects the interpretation of successive utterances con-taining pronouns.Three cases are distinguished in the algorithm: (1)If there is a pronoun and there are no definite nounphrases, the actions associated with the most recentdirect goal and the potential goals are considered aspossible referents of the verb, since either of the twocases described above could obtain.
(2) If there aredefinite noun phrases, all of which refer to focusedentities, then the actions associated with the mostrecent direct goal and the potential goal are the mostlikely referents.
Since all the objects are focused, theaction was presumably mentioned as in the first casedescribed above.
(3) If there is a pronoun and thereare also definite noun phrases, but not all the definitenoun phrases refer to focused entities, then only anaction associated with a potential goal is a possiblereferent.
Since a direct goal associated with this ob-ject could not have been established, only the secondcase described above could obtain.In all three cases, utterance information abouttense and aspect and about action type (from theverb) is used either to verify that the action associatedwith the goal is a possible referent or to choose amatching action type among possible referents.3.1 .4  No  Pronoun or  DoWhen there is no anaphora in the utterance, thecontextual knowledge used for interpretation comesfrom focusing and the task model.
Focusing is used todetermine the relationship between the utterance andfocused entities, including the current action.
Thetask model, including the record of task progress, isused to determine which actions can reasonably betalked about in the current context.
First, focusinginformation is used to determine if the referents of anydefinite noun phrases associated with the verb arecurrently focused.10 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Vo lume7,  Number 1, January-March 1981Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogs3.1.4.1 All Noun Phrases  in Current FocusThe presence of all noun phrase referents in focusindicates that the action involves objects currentlybeing discussed by discourse participants and that theaction is related to the current step (because it in-volves the same objects).
The task model providesinformation about actions the apprentice can performand has performed.
Tense and aspect informationfrom the utterance and the verb type restrict alterna-tives within the task model.Since present and progressive utterances generallyrefer to newly started actions, the actions consideredin the task model are those that are closely related tothe most recent action performed and that involveobjects referred to in the utterance.
Possible actionsmight be: a substep of the last step started but notcompleted; the potential goal; or a step not involvingany different objects that is closely linked in the planto the last step started or completed (i.e., a step that isa substep of or successor to the last step, or succeedsa parent of the last step).Utterance 1 in the sample dialog ("I am attachingthe pump") illustrates a present-progressive utterancewith a noun phrase referring to a focused object.
Inthis instance, the pump-attaching step is a substep ofthe last step started - -  installing the pump.For utterances that are past tense and/or  perfectiveaspect, actions in the task model known to have beenin progress and those that could be next steps are pos-sible referents.
The alternatives considered duringinterpretation are: a step in progress; the potentialgoal; a substep of the last step started; a substep ofany step in progress; and a step closely linked to thelast step started or completed.
Utterance 7 ("I atta-ched the pump") shows a reference to a completedaction that was a step in progress - -  attaching thepump.
The verb in utterance 11 ("I 've installed thepulley") refers to a completed action which was thenext step to perform, but was not explicitly mentionedas having been started - -  installing the pulley.3.1.4.2 Not all Noun Phrases  in Current FocusIf the referents of the noun phrases are not cur-rently focused, the focusing hierarchy is searched be-cause the hierarchy indicates previously focused ob-jects that might become focused again.
If the nounphrase referents are identified somewhere in the focus-ing hierarchy, the action named in the utterance ismatched against any action occurring at that place inthe hierarchy.If the utterance contains noun phrases referring toobjects participating in the action and those objectscannot be identified among focused entities, the ac-tions associated with direct goals are eliminated aspossible referents of the verb.
This happens becauseall actions associated with direct goals have been men-tioned, which has caused all their participants to befocused.Possible referents of such verb phrases include:the action associated with the potential goal; a substepof the current step in progress; a substep of all thesteps in progress (if the utterance is past and/or  per-fective); or any action which can achieve some currentgoal (e.g., knowing a location -> found the object).Since the objects described in the noun phrases andthe action both have to be tested when examining thesubsteps, the algorithm first checks the objects de-scribed by the noun phrases to see if they are partici-pants in any of the substeps and if so, it then examinesthe actions to ascertain whether one of them matchesthe input action.3.2 Bottom-Up SearchCurrently the bottom-up algorithm consists of asearch for the most specific occurrence of an event inthe model whose participants are compatible withthose in the utterance.
This strategy is being expand-ed to include a search for a more general event thatcan then be found in the task.
This can be either themost specific event type that is compatible with all theelements in the utterance, or a more general or'similar' event type that is compatible and can befound in the task.
An example of the first is an utter-ance containing "tighten the bolt".
The verb"tighten" refers to a general tightening action, thatcan have more specific uses - -  such as tighten screws,tighten bolts, etc.
From the knowledge that one kindof tightening is bolt tightening and from the occur-rence of "bolts" in the utterance, it can be inferredthat the "tighten bolts" action is intended.
In thesecond case, a more specific verb might have beenused (e.g., bolt the pump) to mean securing the bolts.The verb "bolt" might be initially interpreted as refer-ring to a specific action of tightening bolts.
However,the task model may not have "tighten bolts" encodedas an explicit step.
Instead, perhaps it is implicit insome more general securing step.
From the boltingaction and knowledge of the more general actions ofwhich it is a subset (e.g., securing), its relation to thetask model can be found.3.3 Set t ing  Limits to a SearchKnowing when to stop searching for a referent of averb phrase is another important part of interpretingit.
In general, the extent to which a verb phrase refer-ence is interpreted epends on the type of utterance.For example, a verb phrase may refer to an action thatdoes not fit into the current task context, such as onethat could not or should not be performed at thattime.
If the verb phrase is contained in a question(e.g., "Should I cut the end off now?
"), a reasonableAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981 11Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogsassumption may be as follows: if the action cannot beidentified it is not the appropriate one to take, as illus-trated in Utterance 8.
On the other hand, if the verbphrase is contained in a statement (e.g., "I have cutoff the end.")
,  identifying the specific action per-formed is more important, since a model of the currentsituation could not otherwise be maintained.
Thus,any process for identifying a verb phrase referentshould be able to determine the amount of resources itshould expend in each situation.Another factor to be considered is the extent towhich the speaker can be assumed to be cooperative,and, consequently his or her utterances to be relevant.If some fairly direct connection between the utterance,the task, and/or  dialog context can be postulated,devoting more effort to the search for a connection ismore reasonable than in a less task-oriented ialog, inwhich such a connection may not even exist.
In theTDUS system it is assumed that the user is cooperativeand that all of his or her utterances are relevant.Thus, considerable ffort is expended when necessaryto relate a statement about an executed step to thetask of which it is a part.3.4 Effect of Automatic PlanningThe strategy described here has been developed ina system in which the plan for accomplishing the taskhas already been determined.
The incorporation of anautomatic planning facility should not require substan-tial modification.
With automatic planning, the searchforward to next possible steps would generally requireplanning "next steps" to see if the action in the utter-ance would fit, and bottom-up searching could includeplan recognition to see how the action might be partof a plan.4.
Sample DialogThis section presents a sample dialog in which theTDUS system was one of the participants.
This dialogillustrates some utterances that can be interpreted andresponded to, the goals that are inferred, and the in-ferences that are drawn about the task.
Theapprentice's utterances are preceded by the symbol"#" and numbered for purposes of discussion.
Therest of the dialog was generated by the system actingas an expert.In the initial context for this dialog, the next stepto be performed is to install the pump.
The first stepin installing the pump is the pump-attaching step illus-trated in Figure 1.
At the outset, the table (T1), thepump (PU), the apprentice (you) and the compressor(COMP) are in "primary focus".#I AM ATTACHING THE PUMP (I)OKThe  fo l low ing  has  been assumed:Focus  has  sh i f ted  to :P r imary  focus :PL  - a p la t fo rm.PU - a pump.thenTI - a tab le .PU  - a pump.You  - a person .COMP - a compressor .Expected  immediate  focus :PU - a pump.New goa l - s tep  is:A t tach ing  the  pump to  the  p la t fo rm.#WHICH WRENCH SHOULD I USE  TO BOLT IT  (2)Use  the  box  end  wrench .Focus  has  sh i f ted  to :P r imary  focus :You  are  us ing  the  box-end wrench .Wq - a box  end  wrench .The  pump is  be ing  bo l ted .PL  - a p la t fo rm.PU - a pump.thenTI - a tab le .PU  - a pump.You  - a person .COMP - a compressor .Immediate  focus :PU - a pump.New goa l - s tep  is :Knowing  the  wrench  to  use .In utterance 1, the apprentice indicates the start ofthe pump-attaching action.
This is assumed to be thecurrent goal-step, as the commentary indicates.
Theutterance also causes focusing to shift to the pump(PU) and the platform (PL) with the pump (PU) asthe expected immediate focus, t2 The hierarchy offocused entities (Grosz, 1977a, 1977b) is illustrated inthe two levels of focusing shown here.
"Pr imary fo-cus" indicates the most highly focused entities, "then"indicates the next level of the hierarchy containing theother objects T1, PU, You, and COMP.
Because thepump is explicitly mentioned in utterance 1, it appears12 See Sidner (1979) for a discussion of expected and poten-tial immediate focus.12 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogsin both places in the focusing hierarchy.Utterance 2 is a question about a substep of theattaching action.
The goal is interpreted as aknowledge-state goal - -  knowing what wrench to use.This goal is added to the stack of direct goals as themost recent goal.#WHERE ARE THE BOLTS (3)I don ' t  know.Focus  has  sh i f ted  to:P r imary  focus :bo l t sYou  are  us ing  the  box-end  wrench .W4 - a box-end  wrench .The  pump is be ing  bo l ted .PL  - a p la t fo rm.PU - a pump.thenTI - a tab le .PU  - a pump.You  - a person .COMP - a compressor .Immediate  focus :bo l t sNew goa l - s tep  is:Knowing  a locat ion .Potent ia l  goa l - s tep  is:Bo l t ing  the  pump to  the  p la t fo rm wi ththe  bo l t s .#I FOUND THEM (4)OKImmediate  focus :bo l t sCompleted  goa l - s tep  was:Knowing  the  locat ion .Potent ia l  goa l - s tep  is:Bo l t ing  the  pump to  the  p la t fo rm wi ththe  bo l t s .Utterance 3 is another question about a substep, inthis case the location of the bolts used for bolting thepump.
The direct goal is a knowledge-state goal, toknow the location of the bolts; it is placed on thestack atop the goal from utterance 2., The potentialgoal, a domain goal, is that the bolts be bolted; this isthe goal associated with the bolting substep in whichthe bolts are used.
It replaces the previous potentialgoal.Utterance 4 shows satisfaction of the goal of know-ing the location of the bolts, which is removed fromthe stack of direct goals.#WHERE IS THE WRENCHThe  box-end  wrench  is on  the  tab le .Focus  has  sh i f ted  to:#IOK(5)Pr imary  focus :The  box-end  wrench  is on  the  tab le .TI - a tab le .bo l t sYou  are  us ing  the  box  end  wrench .W4 - a box-end  wrench .The  pump is be ing  bo l ted .PL  - a p la t fo rm.PU - a pump.thenTI - a tab le .PU  - a pump.You  - a person .COMP - a compressor .Immediate  focus :bo l t sPotent ia l  immediate  focus :W4 - a box-end  wrench .New goa l - s tep  is:Knowing  a locat ion .Potent ia l  goa l - s tep  is:Bo l t ing  the  pump to  the  p la t fo rm wi ththe  bo l t s .FOUND IT (6)Immediate  focus :w4 - a box-end  wrench .Completed  goa l - s tep  was:Knowing  the  locat ion .Potent ia l  goa l - s tep  is:Bo l t ing  the  pump to  the  p la t fo rm wi ththe  bo l t s .In utterance 5 the apprentice asks about the loca-tion of "the wrench".
This utterance illustrates howfocusing information helps disambiguate noun phrasereferents.
There are several wrenches in the model, sothe phrase "the wrench" might be considered ambigu-ous.
However,  in utterance 2 a particular wrench wasfocused by the expert's reply and has remained fo-cused, so the phrase "the wrench" can be interpretedas referring to a unique wrench - -  the particular box-end wrench previously mentioned and identified.
Thegoal inferred from utterance 5 is "knowing the loca-tion of the wrench.
"In both this utterance and utterance 2, TDUS hasapparently satisfied the apprentice's knowledge-stategoal by supplying the relevant information, but TDUSdoes not assume that the knowledge-state goal will besatisfied unless the apprentice confirms it.
This is adesign decision that could be changed by assuming theAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981 13Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogsreply satisfied the goal or by distinguishing the goal asone that has been potentially-satisfied.
Differentchoices reflect different assumptions about the otherparticipant.
In one case, it is assumed that the copar-ticipant understands, whereas in the other case, suchunderstanding is not assumed, but must be explicitlyconfirmed.In utterance 7 the apprentice explicitly indicatesthe completion of the attaching step, from which thesystem infers that the substeps shown in Figure 1 havebeen performed.#I ATTACHED THE PUMP (7)OKThe  fo l low ing  has  been assumed:You  put  the  pump at  the  p la t fo rm.You  bo l ted  the  pump to  the  p la t fo rmwi th  the  bo l t s .Immediate  focus :PU  - a pump.Potent ia l  immediate  focus :PU - a pump.Completed  goa l - s tep  was:A t tach ing  the  pump to  the  p la t fo rm.#SHOULD I INSTALL  THE PULLEY  NOW (8)NoThe  next  s tep  is:Ins ta l l  the  a f te rcoo ler  e lbow on  the  pump.orIns ta l l  the  brace  on  the  pump.Focus  has  sh i f ted  to:P r imary  focus :ACE - a a f te rcoo ler  e lbow.BR - a b race .You  a t tached the  pump.The  box-end  wrench  was  on  the  tab le .TI - a tab le .bo l t sYou  used  the  box-end  wrench .W4 - a box-end  wrench .The  pump has  been bo l ted .PL  - a p la t fo rm.PU - a pump.thenT\] - a tab le .PU  - a pump.You  - a person .COMP - a compressor .Immediate  focus :PU  - a pump.Potent ia l  immediate  focus :a pu l ley .# I 'M  DOING THE BRACE NOW (9)OKThe  fo l low ing  has  been assumed:DO is assumed to  mean:You  are  ins ta l l ing  the  brace .Focus  has  sh i f ted  to:P r imary  focus :PU  - a pump.BR - a b race .thenTI - a tab le .PU  - a pump.You  - a person .COMP - a compressor .Immediate  focus :PU  - a pump.Potent ia l  immediate  focus :BR - a b race .New goa l - s tep  is :Ins ta l l ing  the  brace  on  the  pump.# I 'VE  DONE IT (\]0)OKThe  fo l low ing  has  been assumed:You  a t tached the  ins ta l led  brace  tothe  pump.You  put  the  ins ta l led  brace  a t  the  pump.You  secured  the  ins ta l led  brace .DO is assumed to  mean:You  ins ta l led  the  brace .Immediate  focus :BR - a b race .Completed  goa l - s tep  was :Ins ta l l ing  the  brace  on  the  pump.The question in utterance 8 is about a possible nextstep - -  in this case the wrong one.
The algorithm foridentifying the action indicated by the verb phraserecognizes that the step mentioned is not a possiblenext step; the apprentice is told this and, in addition,is told the possible next steps.Utterance 9 shows the verb "do" used in this caseto mean "install" - -  referring back to the expert'sreply, in which "install" was used.In utterance 10 "do" is used differently - -  as"perform" with "it" referring to the brace-installingaction, which is inferred to have been completed.TDUS also infers completion of the substeps of install-ing the brace, putting it on the pump, and securing it.Utterances 11 through 15 illustrate other referencesto steps started and/or  completed and the correspond-ing inferences, focusing shifts, and goal changes.14 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogs#I 'VE  INSTALLED THE PULLEY  (11)OKThe  fo l low ing  has  been assumed:You  ins ta l led  the  woodru f f  keyon the  pump.You  a t tached the  woodru f f  keyto  the  pump.You  put  the  woodru f f  key  at  the  pump.You  secured  the  woodru f f  key.You  a t tached the  ins ta l led  pu l leyto  the  pump.You  put  the  ins ta l led  pu l ley  at  the  pump.You  fas tened the  ins ta l led  pu l leyto  the  pump wi th  the  sc rews .Focus  has  sh i f ted  to:P r imary  focus :You  ins ta l led  the  ins ta l led  pu l ley .PU  - a pump.PUL  - a pu l ley .thenTI - a tab le .PU  - a pump.You  - a person .COMP - a compressor .Potent ia l  immediate  focus :PUL  - a pu l ley .#WHAT SHOULD I DO NOW (12)Ins ta l l  the  a f te rcoo ler  e lbow on  the  pump.Focus  has  sh i f ted  to:P r imary  focus :ACE - a a f te rcoo ler  e lbow.You  ins ta l led  the  ins ta l led  pu l ley .PU - a pump.PUL  - a pu l ley .thenTI - a tab le .PU  - a pump.You  - a person .COMP - a compressor .Potent ia l  immediate  focus :PUL  - a pu l ley .New goa l - s tep  is:Knowing  the  ac t ions .Potent ia l  goa l - s tep  is:Ins ta l l  the  a f te rcoo ler  e lbowon  the  pump.# I 'VE  DONE IT (13)OKThe  fo l low ing  has  been assumed:You  a t tached the  ins ta l led  a f te rcoo lere lbow to  the  pump.You  put  the  ins ta l led  a f te rcoo ler  e lbowat the  pump.You  secured  the  ins ta l led  a f te rcoo lere lbow.DO is assumed to  mean:You  ins ta l led  the  ins ta l led  a f te rcoo lere lbow on  the  pump.Focus  has  sh i f ted  to:P r imary  focus :You  ins ta l led  the  ins ta l leda f te rcoo ler  e lbow on  the  pump.PU - a pump.ACE - a a f te rcoo ler  e lbow.thenTI - a tab le .PU - a pump.You  - a person .COMP - a compressor .#SHOULD I INSTALL  THE AFTERCOOLER (14)YesPotent ia l  goa l - s tep  is:Ins ta l l ing  the  a f te rcoo ler .# I 'VE  DONE IT  (15)OKThe  fo l low ing  has  been assumed:You  a t tached the  ins ta l led  a f te rcoo lerto  the  pump.You  put  the  ins ta l led  a f te rcoo lerat  the  pump.You  secured  the  ins ta l led  a f te rcoo ler .DO is assumed to  mean:You  ins ta l led  the  ins ta l led  a f te rcoo ler .Focus  has  sh i f ted  to:P r imary  focus :You  ins ta l led  the  ins ta l leda f te rcoo ler .PU - a pump.AC - a a f te rcoo ler .thenTI - a tab le .PU - a pump.You  - a person .COMP - a compressor .5.
Future Direct ionsIn this paper, we have discussed the problem ofidentifying the actions and events referred to by verbphrases.
In particular, we have considered dialogsabout an ongoing task.
We have examined some ofthe knowledge needed for identifying the actions andhave presented a strategy for finding them.
This prob-lem is of interest both because it is an important partof interpreting utterances and because it illustrates theneed for combining knowledge of many types wheninterpreting utterances.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981 15Ann E. Robinson Determining Verb Phrase Referents in DialogsThe research discussed here shows how the knowl-edge about language and about the domain that iscurrently identified and represented in a computersystem can be used when interpreting verb phrases.Important extensions of this research include deter-mining: (1) how top-down and bottom-up searchingcan be combined more effectively; (2) on what basisdecisions can be made to stop looking for a connectionbetween an action and a plan; (3) what extensions ofthis algorithm are necessary for handling dialogs inwhich the lack of a strong model of the task beingperformed results in weaker top-down constraints.Further research on finding referents of verb phrases,building on the algorithm presented here, should con-tribute to solving the more general natural-languageprocessing problems of determining what other knowl-edge is needed for interpreting utterances and howthat knowledge can be used most effectively.ReferencesAllen, J.
1979.
"A Plan-Based Approach to Speech Act Recogni-tion," Ph.D. Dissertation, Department of Computer Science,University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.Appelt, D.E.
1979.
"Planning Natural Language Utterances toSatisfy Multiple Goals," Unpublished Thesis Proposal, StanfordUniversity, Stanford, California.Clark, H.H.
and Marshall, C. 1980.
"Definite Reference and Mutu-al Knowledge," In Elements of Discourse Understanding: Proceed-ings of a Workshop on Computational Aspects of Linguistic Struc-ture and Discourse Setting, A.K.
Joshi, I.A.
Sag, and B.L.
Web-ber, eds., Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England.Cohen, P.R.
1978.
"On Knowing What to Say: Planning SpeechActs," Technical Report No.
118, Department of ComputerScience, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.Donellan, K.S.
1977.
"Reference and Definite Description," In S.P.Schwartz (Ed.)
Naming, Necessity, and Natural Kind, CornellUniversity Press, Ithaca, New York, pp.
42-65.Fikes, R.E.
and Hendrix, G.G.
1977.
"A Network-Based Knowl-edge Representation and its Natural Deduction System," Pro-ceedings of the Fifth International Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, Cambridge, Massachusetts, August 1977, pp.
235-246.Grimes, J.G.
1980.
"Context Structure Patterns," Presented at theNobel Symposium on Text Processing, Stockholm, Sweden,August, 1980.Grosz, B.J.
1977a.
"The Representation and Use of Focus in Dia-logue Understanding," Technical Note No.
151, SRI Interna-tional, Menlo Park, California.Grosz, B.J.
1977b.
"The Representation and Use of Focus in aSystem for Understanding Dialogues," Proceedings of the FifthInternational Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Cam-bridge, Massachusetts, August 1977, pp.
67-76.Grosz, B.J.
1978.
"Focusing in Dialogue," Proceedings ofTINLAP-2, University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, July, 1978.Grosz, B.J.
1979.
"Utterance and Objective: Issues in NaturalLanguage Communication," Proceedings of  the Sixth Internation-al Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Tokyo, Japan, Au-gust 1979, pp.
1067-1076.Grosz, B.J.
1980.
"Focusing and Description in Natural LanguageDialogues," In Elements of Discourse Understanding: Proceedingsof a Workshop on Computational Aspects of Linguistic Structureand Discourse Setting, A.K.
Joshi, I.A.
Sag, and B.L.
Webber,eds, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England.Grosz, B.J., Hendrix, G.G.
and Robinson, A.E.
1977.
"UsingProcess Knowledge in Understanding Task-Oriented Dialogs,"Proceedings of the Fifth International Joint Conference on Artifi-cial Intelligence, Cambridge, Massachusetts, August 1977, pg.90.Hankamer, J. and Sag, I.
1976.
"Deep and Surface Anaphora,"Linguistic Inquiry 7, 3, (Summer, 1976), pp.
391-426.Hendrix, G.G.
1973.
"Modeling Simultaneous Actions and Continu-ous Processes," Artificial Intelligence 4, pp.
145-180.Hendrix, G.G.
1975.
"Partitioned Networks for the MathematicalModeling of Natural Language Semantics," Technical ReportNL-28, Department of Computer Sciences, University of Texas,Austin, Texas.Hendrix, G.G.
1977.
"Some General Comments on Semantic Net-works," Panel on Knowledge Representation, Proceedings of theFifth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Cambridge, Massachusetts, August 1977, pp.
984-985.Hendrix, G.G.
1979.
"Encoding Knowledge in Partitioned Net-works," In Associative Networks - The Representation a d Use ofKnowledge in Computers, N.V. Findler, ed., Academic Press,New York, 1979.Hobbs, J.R. 1978.
"Why is Discourse Coherent?
", Technical NoteNo.
176, SRI International, Menlo Park, California.Konolige, K. 1979.
"A Framework for a Portable Natural-LanguageInterface to Large Data Bases," Technical Note No.
197, SRIInternational, Menlo Park, California.Leech, G.N.
1976.
Meaning and the English Verb, Longman GroupLtd., London, England.Reichman, R. 1978.
"Conversational Coherency," Cognitive Science2, 4, pp.
283-327.Robinson, A.E., Appelt, D.E., Grosz, B.J., Hendrix, G.G., andRobinson, J.J. 1980.
"Interpreting Natural-Language Utteranc-es in Dialogs about Tasks," Technical Note No.
210, SRI Inter-national, Menlo Park, California.Robinson, J.J. 1980.
"DIAGRAM," Technical Note No.
205, SRIInternational, Menlo Park, California.
(To appear in Comm.ACM.Sacerdoti, E.D.
1977.
A Structure for Plans and Behavior, ElsevierNorth-Holland, New York.Searle, J.R. 1978.
"Literal Meaning," Erkenntnis 13, pp.
207-224.Sidner, C. 1979.
"Towards a Computational Theory of DefiniteAnaphora Comprehension i English Discourse," Ph.D. Disser-tation, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,Massachusetts.Walker, D.E., ed.
1978.
Understanding Spoken Language, ElsevierNorth-Holland, New York.Webber, B.L.
1978.
"A Formal Approach to Discourse Anaphora,"Report No.
3761, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge,Massachusetts.Werner, O.
1966.
"Pragmatics and Ethnoscience," AnthropologicalLinguistics 8, 8, (1966), pp.
42-65.Wilensky, R. 1978.
"Understanding Goal-Based Stories", Ph.D.Dissertation, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.Ann E. Robinson is a Computer Scientist in theArtificial Intelligence Center at SR I  International.
Shereceived the M.S.
degree in computer science from Stan-ford University in 1968.16 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 1, January-March 1981
