The Meaning of OF and HAVE in the USL SystemMagdalena ZoeppritzIBM GermanyHeidelberg Scientific CenterTiergartenstrasse 15D-6900 Heidelberg WEST GERMANYThis paper shows how the transformational relationship between HAVE-sentences andOF=phrases is used to represent data contained in sentences with HAVE as the main verbin the context of an information system using natural language to access a relational database.
An overview of the system first establishes the framework in which natural languageprocessing is done.
Then ways of representing HAVE are discussed with emphasis on therelation between HAVE and OF.
The interpretation proposed and the interpretationprocess are illustrated by a list of representative queries and phrases against a small database.
In conclusion, this interpretation is extended to prepositional attributes with WITHand WITHOUT,  and problems are discussed.1.
IntroductionThe User Specialty Languages (USL) System trans-lates input in natural language German into expres-sions in the formal language of the data base systemassociated with USL, accesses the data base with theseexpressions and  transmits the results to the user eitherdirectly or after performing additional operations onthe output.
The system was developed at the Heidel-berg Scientific Center of IBM Germany by H. Leh-mann, N. Ott, the students K. Horl~inder and W.Sauermann, and the author.USL was designed to provide data base access foruser groups whose requirements are not satisfied bystandard programs and for whom having special pro-grams written or learning to program themselves wouldnot be feasible.The system was to be capable of dealing with natu-ral language in a variety of different application con-texts and not restricted to a particular field or world.This purpose determined the methods used and thecorresponding limitations of the system.
Within theselimits, we have tried in the implementation to incorpo-rate the syntactic constructions to be  expected in thecontext of data base interaction and to provide thecorrect interpretations for them.The data base management system is an implemen-tation of the relational model, the Peterlee RelationalTest Vehicle (PRTV, Todd, 1975) with its data baselanguage ISBL.
This is the target language of thetranslation process.
The method of translation is asubstantial extension of the methods used in the RELSystem (Rapidly Extensible Language, Thompson etal., 1969, Dostert et al, 1971).
This system treatsnatural language much like a formal language in thatsyntactic constructions and function words are inter-preted by the system according to the semantics of thelanguage built into the system, but nouns, verbs, andadjectives are treated as variables of which only thedata type - -  the word class - -  is known.The underlying assumption is the following: Themeanings of prepositions, dates, verbs like HAVE andBE and syntactic constructions, on the one hand, areindependent of the subject matter; on the other hand,nouns, verbs, and adjectives and their meanings varyfrom application to application.
In the context of agiven data base, these words identify the names ofrelations; their meaning is restricted to the associationbetween word and corresponding relation.
Names andnumbers identify values within tuples.In USL, these words can be added to the system bythe user to match the shape of the relations in his database.
A prompting routine guides the vocabulary defi-nition and makes sure that all information needed bythe system is entered.The advantage of not providing the user with thevocabulary of his application already built into thesystem is that he is not restricted in his choice ofwords, and new words can be added easily.
The dis-Copyright 1981 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is g rantedprovided that the copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the Journal reference and this copyright notice are included onthe first page.
To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or  specific permission.0362-613X/81/020109-11501.00American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981 109Magdatena Zoeppritz The Meaning of OF and HAVE in the USL-Systemadvantage is that the system knows only what hasbeen explicitly defined by the user, and common senseknowledge, e.g.
that an employee is a person or that asalary does not own a house, is not reflected in thesystem and is not used in the interpretation process.This also means that the interpretation can make onlyvery restricted use of deep case relationships, becausethe information on deep cases would have to be ob-tained from the user.
We see no way as yet to elicitthis information reliably and consistently, withoutconfusing or boring the user.When used for an application, then, the systemworks with two vocabularies, one user-defined, con-taining the nouns, verbs, and adjectives referring tothe data base of his application, the other system-defined, containing prepositions, quantifiers, interroga-tives, particles, names of days and months, nouns ref-erring to operations like minimum, maximum, plus,minus, etc., the verbs BE and HAVE,  and adjectiveslike GREATER,  MORE,  and LESS.
The system-defined words and their meanings to the system arethe same for all applications.The purpose of this paper  is to discuss and demon-strate the interpretation of one of these system-defined words: the verb HAVE when used as the mainverb of a sentence.
(HAVE as an auxiliary has notbeen implemented.)
An overview of the system firstestablishes the framework in which this interpretationhas its place.
This is fol lowed by a discussion ofHAVE in general and possible representations of it inUSL.
The solution proposed here and implemented inUSL uses the transformational  relationship betweenHAVE-sentences  and OF-phrases to represent andsearch data contained in HAVE-sentences in the rela-tion addressed by the accusative of HAVE.
This in-terpretation is applied to a list of representative quer-ies and phrases against a small data base as a test ofthe interpretation and as an illustration of the interpre-tation process.
In the concluding sections, the inter-pretation is extended to prepositional attributes withWITH and WITHOUT,  and problems are discussed.2.
The SystemThis section contains a brief overview of the sys-tem.
More detail, particularly on the interpretation, isfound in Ott (1977, 1978), and Lehmann (1978).Information on language coverage is found in Leh-mann et al (1977), and documentation on the gram-mar is in preparation.The system consists of three parts:1.
Parser and grammar ules2.
Function processor and interpretationroutines3.
Data base and data base languageThe system contains about 800 syntactic and 200lexical (system-defined words) rules.
The rules aremostly context-free, with some context-sensit ive andsome transformational  rules, written in a modif iedBackus Normal Form (BNF).
Each rule contains thename of an interpretation routine written in PL /1 ,which performs operations in correspondence to themeaning of the syntactic construction.The parser and function processor are USAGE(User Application Generator) ,  developed at the IBMParis Scientific Center, along the principles of Kay(1967), with considerable modif ications and exten-sions.
It works from left to right, bottom-up, throughthe input string.
The input is tested against the rules,and rules are applied wherever there is a match, lexicalrules first.
The result is several disconnected subtrees,which are discarded, and one or more trees spanningthe entire input.
Only the full parses are processedfurther.
Each node in the tree contains the name ofthe interpretation routine from the grammar ule usedin its construction.The function processor walks down the tree andcalls the interpretation routines associated with eachnode.
In the original concept developed for REL, theinterpretation routines were executed on the spot andthe result was passed as an input parameter to the nextroutine.
This procedure proved insufficient for theinterpretation of quantifiers, negation, and coordinatedstructures.
The original concept was changed so thatnow the interpretation routines do not simply pass ona result, but successively build a structure reflectingsemantic dependencies indicated by the syntacticstructures, the names of the relations, columns andvalues taking part in these dependencies, as well asinformation on syntactic function and scope of individ-ual elements in the tree.
This structure is processedrecursively and translated into expressions in the database language ISBL (cf.
Ott, 1979, and Lehmann,1978, for detail on the interpretation process).The resulting ISBL strings are passed to the data-base management system to access the data base andperform the update or retrieval operations requested.In the simple case, if the answer is a list or table ofitems, and the question calls for nothing more, theanswer is formatted and printed.
For yes /no  ques-tions, the return code from the data base is translatedto the proper answer.
Questions involving some typesof quantification and arithmetic need further process-ing on the answer.The data base is relational.
Relations can bethought of as tables with rows and columns.
Noun,verbs, and adjectives refer to relation names; they canbe words in the language or words invented for a spe-cific purpose.
Names of columns within relations,so-called role names are standardized in USL.
Theycorrespond to the complements of the nouns, verbs, oradjectives.
This often coincides with their valence, butis not valence in the strict sense, because it does not110 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, Apri l - June 1981Magdalena Zoeppritz The Meaning of OF and HAVE in the USL-Systemmatter in USL whether complements are obligatory oroptional in the language, but only whether these com-plements are needed in the application.
Thus, a rela-tion SUPPLIER can be defined with two, three, ormore columns, depending on the data and purposes ofthe data base containing it, e.g.
:supplier of productsupplier of product o recipientsupplier of product o recipient at timeThe standard role names are:NOM nominative with verbs, with nouns andadjectives, set of objects referred toACC accusativeDAT dativeGEN genitiveOF genitive attributeLA placeLO originLG goalLD distanceLP pathTA point in time, dateTO startTG endTD duration(preposition) e.g.
FUER, name of prepositiongovernedThus, a sentence like:Joan is the daughter of Harrymakes the system look for a relation DAUGHTERwith two columns, NOM and OF, to add the tupleJoan, Harry.DAUGHTERNOM OFJoan HarryThe words IS, THE, and OF, as well as theconstructions SUBJECT-OF and PREDICATE-NOMINAL-OF ,  are understood by the system.DAUGHTER is known to be a noun and therefore arelation name.
JOAN and HARRY are unknownstrings and therefore assumed to be values in a rela-tion.
Within this framework, the verb HAVE is one ofthe system-defined words.
The following section dis-cusses the interpretation of HAVE in the USL systemand the reasons for this interpretation.3.
The Interpretation of HAVECompared with the extensive discussion of the verbBE, which is accorded special treatment both in lin-guistics and logic, the verb HAVE does not seem tohave appeared in any way problematic.
Syntactic pe-culiarities have been observed - -  a transitive verbwhich does not readily admit the passive - -  and awide range of meanings are given in any dictionary,many of them idiomatic.
For sentence analysis withina data base context, the major question is that ofwhere to store information contained in sentences withHAVE as the main verb and from where to retrieve it.In the interpretation found in Cresswell (1973) orBennet's (1974) extension of Montague, HAVE ap-pears as a two-place predicate.This interpretation is also widely accepted in artifi-cial intelligence.
BUt, as we are going to show, theinterpretation leads to incorrect results and should beabandoned.HAVE as a two-place predicate in a relational database would have to be set up as a relation HAVE withtwo columns, one for the subject, one for the objectsof HAVE-sentences.
The tuples of the relation wouldcontain the individuals (names, part numbers, figures)among which the relation HAVE holds.
However, acloser look at the contents of such a relation showsthat two places, one for the subject and one for theobject, are not enough.
Given the facts that:John has a secretary by the name of PaulineJohn has a daughter named Polly, who is asecretaryThe corresponding data base entries in the relationsHAVE, DAUGHTER,  and SECRETARY would read:HAVE DAUGHTER SECRETARYNOM ACC NOM OF NOM OFJohn Polly Polly John Polly BillJohn Pauline Pauline JohnFrom this would follow correctly that " John has(daughter) Polly" and "John has (secretary) Pauline"but also that "John has two secretaries", because bothPolly and Pauline are secretaries.
The relationshipbetween elements expressed as "x has y" is too vague;it can apply in too many cases, and can often be re-versed "if x has (daughter) y, then y has (parent) x";so that at least the specific relationship that makes itpossible to speak of x having y would have to be re-corded in a third column: "x has y as z".
In that case,the examples above would not lead to John's havingtwo secretaries:HAVENOM ACC ASJohn Pauline secretaryJohn Polly daughterWhat is written in the third column sometimes ap-pears overtly in sentences, but it is not part of thevalence of HAVE, so that it would be difficult to re-quire HAVE to be used only with reference to therelationship in the third column.
Furthermore, the factthat the items in the third column are names of rela-tionships and not names of individuals is significant initself.
This leads to the conclusion that HAVE shouldnot be regarded as a primitive predicate at all, but as aderived predicate, derivable just in case some otherAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981 111Magdalena Zoeppritz The Meaning of OF and HAVE in the USL-Systemrelationship exists between the individuals in question.With different aims and from a different point ofview, this has already been observed by Bach(1967:476-77):It has often been said that be has no meaning byitself but only in connection with Predicate, thepassive construction, and so on.
The same is trueof have.
The two forms are distinguished syntac-tically from most true verbs by the fact that theyhave no selectional restrictions in themselves, butoccur in constructions where the selections reachacross from "subject" to "object" or complement.Likewise, from a semantic point of view, theircontribution tO the meaning of the sentence isdetermined completely by the items that they link.Conversely, HAVE can only be used meaningfullyto link elements where some other relationship deter-mining the nature of that link is expressed or can beinferred.
The vague term "some other relationship"needs more clarification than can be given at this time.It is clear that the relationship must be representableas a two-place predicate, but many such predicates donot serve as the basis for deriving HAVE.
It seems,for instance, that the relations expressed by actionverbs do not permit HAVE to be derived directly,though their agent nominalizations often do:John teaches Jack?
# John has Jack # Jack has JohnJohn is the teacher of Jack= Jack has John as his teacherThe relationships most often associated with HAVEare those of possession and ownership.
That themeaning of HAVE is much wider is commonplace.
(Adetailed analysis of the syntactic properties of HAVEand their association with different meanings is foundin Pitha 1971 and 1972).
Still, the verbs OWN andPOSSESS can be replaced by HAVE without interven-ing nominalization and the extension ofJohn has a bicyclefromJohn owns a bicycletoJohn has a bicycle in his possessionseems artificial.
On the other hand, the conclusion:If John has a bicycle, then he owns a bicycleis plausible and often true, but not necessarily so, andwill be false with different choices of objects.
In thecase of inalienable possession as the objects of HAVEsentences, the conclusion is absurd, so that the objectsof HAVE and OWN are taken to refer to differententities (Bierwisch, 1965).
Nevertheless, while it isclearly impossible to restrict the interpretation ofHAVE to possession, any other interpretation will facethe problem that HAVE is often used as a synonym ofOWN or POSSESS (cf.
section 6).
This may be thereason why HAVE is often regarded as a primitive forpossession (e.g.
Langacker, 1975).
There is a trans-formational relationship between HAVE and OF, al-ready discussed e.g.
in Bach (1967):Peter has a daughter JoanJoan is the daughter of PeterBut there is a peculiarity: Whereas HAVE can be usedwith names, as well as with names and common nouns,whereby a relationship is implied if if is not overtlyexpressed (e.g., We each have our own room, I haveA101), OF is rarely used only with names:Peter has A202?
(The) A202 of PeterbutPeter has a roomThe room of PeterThis seems to show that, unlike HAVE-sentences,OF-phrases are acceptable only where the relationshipbetween individuals is not implied but overtly stated.There is no base relationship underlying the use ofOF, the base relationship is the one preceding OF inthe OF-phrase.
Furthermore, OF-phrases seem to bethe specific means to express such relationships.
The"secretary of Peter" is the individual which is relatedto Peter via the relationship "secretary of".
OF-phrases cannot be expanded in the same way asHAVE-sentences can be expanded by AS-complements to introduce the "real" base relationship.And, because the base relationship is overtly stated,OF-phrases cannot be reversed:?
(The) Peter of the secretaryIn this sense, OF-phrases can be considered as beingmore explicit than the HAVE-sentences into whichthey can be transformed.This led to the decision to interpret HAVE sen-tences in USL as transformations of OF-phrases andconsequently to search or store information in HAVE-sentences not in a relation representing the verb, butin the columns with the role-name OF in relationsaddressed by the nouns in the sentence.The following uses of OF are not transformational-ly related to HAVE and are excluded here:Helen of Troypiece of chalkdistance of 3 mileslove of Godangel of a nursethe destruction of the citybasket (full/out) of woodman of propertyFor the purposes of data base query, some of theseconstructions with OF do not seem to be necessary.Measure expressions are desirable, but have not beenimplemented.
An unsolved problem is how OF-phrases resulting from nominalizations of verbs can berelated within the USL framework in a general way to112 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981Magdalena Zoeppritz The Meaning of OF and HAVE in the USL-Systemthe verb or to the event  referred to.
The remain inguses of OF  have a range of meaning similar to HAVEin express ing not only possess ion and par t -o f  re lat ion-ships, but  also any number  of o ther  re lat ionsh ipswhich, in the case of OF ,  are expl ic i t ly named by thenoun preceding OF  and, in the case of HAVE,  can beinferred from the nouns or occur expl ic i t ly in the AS-complement .Al l  uses where OF  is re lated to HAVE,  as well  assome of the other  uses, can in German also be ex-pressed by genit ive attr ibutes (not  all are poss ib le inEngl ish because of the restr icted use of the genit ive).The uses re lated to HAVE also appear  as possessivepronouns.
Geni t ive  attr ibutes,  as well  as possessivepronouns ,  are in terpreted  in the same way as OF-phrases.
An  addit ional  select ion operat ion  for posses-sive pronouns is necessary to obta in  a match betweenthe indiv idual  members  of the sets referred to by thepossess ive and addressed  by the head noun of thepossessive.If the t rans format iona l  re lat ionsh ip  betweenHAVE-sentences  and OF-phrases  is to be used, andHAVE-sentences  access the OF-co lumn of re lat ions(the column with the role name OF) ,  there are stilltwo possibi l i t ies:  G iven the sentence:Which manager  has a secretary?a f irst in terpretat ion  addresses  the OF-co lumn ofMANAGER and compares  the contents  of that  col-umn with the list of secretar ies:  "Is there a manager  ofsomebody,  is that  somebody a secretary ,  and if so,who is the manager  'The set of x, such that x is a manager of yand y is a secretary:{x\[ Ey(M(x,y) A S(y))}This in terpretat ion  is val id only where secretar ies aremanaged by the people whose secretary  they are, butfails for:Which manager  has room 35?unless the room of the manager  is also conta ined inthe OF-co lumn of MANAGER.
In general ,  this inter-pretat ion  will work  only where everyth ing a managercan have is conta ined in the OF-co lumn of MANAG-ER and is therefore  not  useful  as a general  solut ion.Fur thermore ,  the interpretat ion  is unable to handlecorrect ly  sentences like:Which manager  has a music ian as his secretary?Which manager  has a secretary  as his music ian?
1It assigns the fo l lowing in terpretat ion  to both  sen-tences:{xlEy(M(x,y)  A S(y) A Mu(y))}though their  meaning is c lear ly di f ferent.1 The possessive pronoun here and in the examples belowmakes for better eading of the English glosses, the German exam-ples do not have it and it is not necessary for the discussion.A second in terpretat ion  of the sentence below:Which  manager  has a secretary?searches in the OF-co lumn of the accusat ive,  SECRE-TARY,  for an entry  that is also l isted in MANAGER:"Is there a secretary  of somebody,  is that  somebody amanager ,  and if so, who is i t" :The set of x such that there is a y who isa secretary and y is secretary of x and x isa manager:{xlEy(S(y,x) A M(x))}Accord ing ly :Which manager  has room 35?The set of x such that the room of x is 35and x is a manager:{xl A(x,35) A M(x)}The second so lut ion does not  requi re  that  every-thing a manager  can have is found in the OF-co lumnof manager .
The se lect ion starts  with the re la t ionnamed by the direct  ob ject  of HAVE.
In this way it isalso guaranteed  that  the re la t ion  spec i f ied actual lyobta ins  between the respect ive  indiv iduals .
In theexample:Which manager  has a secretary?the secretary  requested is not  just any secretary,  butthe secretary  of this manager ,  not  perhaps a col leagueof this manager  and the secretary  of another .This in terpretat ion  also d is t inguishes between thetwo sentences  with AS-complements ,  whereby  thecomplement  akes the place of the accusat ive and theaccusat ive is t reated as an appos i t ion  to it.Which manager  has a music ian as his secretary?The set of x such that y is secretary of xand y is a musician and x is a manager:{xlEy(S(y,x) A M(x) A Mu(y))}Which manager  has a secretary  as his music ian?The set of x such that y is musician of xand y is a secretary and x is a manager:{xlEy(Mu(y,x)  A M(x) A S(y))}The first solut ion could be used as an escape if theother  in terpretat ion  does not  yield a result,  but  it leadsto mult ip le  in terpretat ions  with the same result  forre lat ions that are def ined as converses  of one another.In o ther  cases, this in terpretat ion  leads to.
answerswhere the answer should be undef ined:Which  manager  has 5000?
(salary,  personnel ,  or what)Which manager  has A202?
(room, car, personnel  number)As a result,  the second in terpretat ion  has been imple-mented  in its str ict form: There is genera l ly  no answerdef ined for queries in which the ob ject  of HAVE doesnot conta in  a relat ion.
In human dia logue,  such ques-t ions can of ten be answered  because either it is c learthat  HAVE means  POSSESS or BE PART OF ,  orAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981 113Magdalena Zoeppritz The Meaning of OF and HAVE in the USL-Systembecause what corresponds to the relation appears fromthe context.4.
Test  of the Interpretat ionIn order to see whether relating the subject ofHAVE to the OF-column of the accusative of HAVEis a correct and general solution to the problem ofinterpreting HAVE,  this interpretation was tried outwith sentences containing HAVE and six types ofnoun phrases relevant in USL: names, quantified com-mon nouns, common nouns preceded by interrogatives,relative pronouns, interrogative pronouns, and nounphrases with apposition, all both in subject and objectpositions.
Coordinated noun phrases were not testedseparately, because they are expanded into as manyseparate sentences as there are noun phrases in thecoordination.
Similarly, where there is no negation,common nouns preceded by quantifier or preceded byinterrogative do not require different interpretationswith respect to HAVE.
Quantif iers trigger severaltransformation operations on the ISBL-string resultingfrom the translation (Ott, 1977), but the translation isthe same.
Interrogatives indicate which columns ofthe result are to figure in the answer.
Appositions ofthe type "secretary Moser" ,  "Moser as secretary"(including AS-complements of HAVE)  have been in-eluded, because the first type furnishes a selectionfrom the relation addressed, and the second type therelation itself.The relevant features then are: name, noun, inter-rogative, referent of relative pronoun, and negation.The following section lists the test phrases for thesecases, but not all their permutations.
Also, appositionsare not shown for relative clauses, for the sake ofbrevity.
The list illustrates how the interpretation ofHAVE outlined here is implemented in USL.
Foreach case, the general ISBL expression which resultsf rom the interpretation of HAVE is formed.
Thenexamples are formulated against a sample data baseand translated into ISBL expressions according to thegeneral schema, and the results of the data base opera-tions triggered by the ISBL expression are shown,together with the columns taking part in the selectionoperations.
The examples have been left in German,with glosses in English, because some of the construc-tions tested cannot be formulated in English in thesame way.The sample data base contains the following rela-tions:MANAGER SECRETARY MUSICIANNOM OF NOM OF NOMStern Moser Moser Sauer MoserStern Mahle Mahle K iSn ig  PahleSauer K iSn ig  Maier Ki.ifer PeterNotation:NOM relation/value in the nominative of HAVEACC relation/value in the accusative of HAVEAPP relation/value in the appositionNOMnom NOM-column of the relation in the nominativeOFnom OF-column of the relation in the nominativeNOMacc NOM-column of the relation in the accusativeOFacc OF-column of the relation in the accusativeNOMapp NOM-column of the relation in the appositionOFapp OF-column of the relation in the appositionNOMwh NOM-eotumn of the relation with interrogativeNOMrel NOM-column of the relation governing therelative pronounMA relation MANAGERSEK relation SECRETARYNOMma NOM-column of the relation manager,similarly NOMsek, OFma, OFsek, NOMmusx join operator; select operator% project operatorsubtract= equal& andThe string( (NOMxACC)  ;NOMnom=OFacc)  %NOMwhreads as "join the relations addressed by the nomina-tive and accusative of HAVE,  select those tupleswhere the NOM-column of the relation in the nomina-tive equals the OF-column of the relation in the accu-sative, and project for printing the NOM-co lumn ofthose relations where the noun phrases contain inter-rogatives."
In terms of a question against the sampledata base this means:Which manager has which secretary?NOM, the relation in the nominative, is MA for MAN-AGER,  ACC is SECRETARY:  MAxSEK.
NOMnomis the NOM-co lumn of MANAGER,  OFace is theOF-column of SECRETARY,  the relation in the accu-sative: NOMma=OFsek .
Both nominative and accu-sative noun phrases contain interrogatives.
Thereforethe NOM-columns of both  must be projected for out-put: ?/bNOMma,NOMsek.
( (MAxSEK) ;NOMma = OFsek) % NOMma,NOMsekThe following data base operations result f rom thisstring: join of the relations MANAGER and SECRE-TARY:MANAGER SECRETARYNOM OF NOM OFStern Moser Moser SauerStern Moser Mahle K~SnigStern Moser Maier KiJferStern Mahle Moser SauerStern Mahle Mahle KiSnigStern Mahle Maier KiiferSauer KiSnig Moser SauerSauer KiSnig Mahle KiSnigSauer KiSnig Maier KiiferIn the actual implementation, the select operationprecedes the join for reasons of economy.
The resultis an equi-join, where only those tuples are joinedwhere the equality requested by the select operator114 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981Magdalena Zoeppritz The Meaning of OF and HAVE in the USL-Systemexists.
This jo in is shown for the test cases whereverit appl ies.
Similarly, where only one re lat ion is in-volved,  the tuples result ing f rom the select ion opera -t ion are shown, not  the whole relat ion.
The columnsinspected  for se lect ion are shown in full.
For  thepresent  example,  the result  of the equi - jo in  is the tu-pie:( MA x SEK )Sauer Konig Moser SauerThe co lumns inspected  for se lect ion  are the NOM-column of MANAGER and the OF-co lumn of SEC-RETARY:NOMma = OFsekStern SauerStern Koni gSauer KiJferEqual i ty  is true for  "Sauer" .
The cor respond ing  datais now pro jected,  Sauer and the secretary  of  Sauer:NOMma , NOMsekSauer MoserThe pr inted result  o f  the operat ions  and answer to  thequest ionWhich  manager  has which secretary?then is:MANAGER SECRETARYSauer MoserIn the case of negat ion in wh-quest ions  and relatiVeclauses, a set thus found is subt racted  f rom the set tobe pro jected,  so that "which manager  does not  have asecretary"  is in terpreted  as " f ind the managers  whohave secretar ies  and subt ract  them f rom the set ofmanagers ,  to get the managers  who do not  have secre-tar ies" .
In yes /no  quest ions,  also, the posit ive case issearched in the data base,  and the answer  depends  onwhether  the result  is an empty  set.
So, "does: Moserhave no manager"  is in terpreted as " f ind the managerof Moser" .
If the result ing list is empty,  there is nomanager  of Moser  and the answer is YES,  if it is not,the answer  is NO.
2The test cases are ordered as fol lows:A.
No negation1.
Questionsa.
Two relations: subject and object are nounsb.
Relation and interrogative pronoun:subject or object is an interrogative pronounc.
Relation and name: subject or object is a named.
Apposition, two relations, one in the nominativee.
Apposition, two relations in the accusativef.
Apposition, three relationsg.
Apposition, name in the accusativeh.
Apposition, name in the nominativei.
Apposition and two interrogative pronounsthe apposition belongs to one of the pronouns2 DOCH was selected as the answer in GERMAN, becauseNO confuses those speakers who use NO to answer negated ques-tions in the affirmative.2.
Relative clausesa.
Two relationsb.
Relation and nameB.
Negation1.
Questionsa.
Two relationsb.
Relation and interrogative pronounc.
Relation and named.
Appositions2.
Relative clausesa.
Two relationsb.
Relation and nameFor  ease of re ference,  the actual  test cases be loware each preceded by thei r  sect ion headings accord ingto the outl ine above.A.
No negationA.I .
QuestionsA, l .a .
Two relationsGenera l  schema:((NOMxAC C) ;NOMnom = OFacc) %NOMwhWelchen Manager  hat  welche Sekret~irin?Which  manager  does which secretary  have?
( ( SEK x MA ) ;NOMsek=OFma) %NOMma,NOMsekMoser Sauer Stern Moser Moser Moser Stern MoserMahle Konig Stern Mahle Mahle Mahle Stern MahleMaier KonigWelche Sekretar in  hat we lcher  Manager?Which secretary  does which manager  have?
( ( MA x SEK ) ;NOMma=OFsek) %NOMsek,NOMmaSauer Konig Moser Sauer Stern Sauer Moser SauerStern KonigSauer KuferA.l.b.
Relation and interrogative pronounGeneral schema:(ACC;OFacc)% OFacc,NOMaccWer  hat  welche Sekretar in?Who has which secretary?
( SEK ;OFsek) %OFsek,NOMsekMoser Sauer Sauer Sauer MoserMahle Konig Konig  Konig MahleMaier Kufer Kufer Kufer MaierWen hat welche Sekret~irin?Whom does which secretary  have?The accusat ive  is not  a re lat ion;  the answer  is notdef ined.A.
l .c .
Relation and nameGenera l  schema:(ACC;OFacc=NOM) % NOMccWelcher  Manager  hat  Moser?Which manager  has Moser?The accusat ive  is not  a re lat ion;  the answer  is notdef ined.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, April-June 1981 115Magdalena Zoeppr i tz  The Mean ing  of  OF and HAVE in the USL-SystemWelchen Manager hat Moser?Which manager does Moser have?
( MA ;OFacc=Moser) %NOMmaStern Moser Moser SternMahleKon i gA.l.d.
Apposition, two relations, one in the nominativeGeneral schema:((NOMxAPP)) ;NOMnom = OFapp) % NOMwhonly for appositions to the accusativeThe relation in the apposition takes the place of therelation in the accusative in the scheme for A. l .a.
Ifone of the two relations is in the nominative, and theother in the apposition to the accusative, the formula-tion "whom as" is equivalent o "which".Which manager has whom as a secretary?is equivalent oWhich manager has which secretary?If the question begins with the accusative, there aretwo readings: one placing the apposition with the pre-ceding nominative, and a second reading which placesit with the accusative.
This second reading is the pre-ferred reading.
Therefore, the examplesWelcher Manager hat wen als Sekret~irin?Which manager has whom as his secretary?Wen hat welcher Manager als Sekret~irin?Whom does which manager have as his secretary?are all translated like:Welcher Manager hat welche Sekret~trin?Which manager has which secretary?A.l .e.
Apposition, both relations in the accusativeGeneral schema:((ACCxAPP) ;NOMacc= NOMapp) % OFapp,NOMwhWer hat welehen Manager als Sekret~irin?Who has which manager as his secretary?Welchen Manager hat wer als Sekret~trin?Which manager does who have as his secretary?
( (Ma x SEK ) ;NOMma=Nomsek) %OFapp,NOMmaThere is no equa l i ty  Stern Moser NONE FOUNDso the jo in  is empty Stern MahleSauer MaierA.l.f .
Apposition, three relationsGeneral schema:((NOMxACCxAPP);NOMnom= OFapp&NOMacc= NOMapp) % OFappWelcher Manager hat einen Musiker als Sekret~irin?Which manager has a musician as his secretary?
(( MAx MUS x SEK ) ;NOMma=OFsek&NOMmus=NOMsek) %OFsekSa.
Ko.
Mo.
Mo.
Sa.
Stern Sauer Moser Moser SauerStern Konig Pahle MahleSauer Ku'fer Peter MaierA.l.g.
Apposition, name in the accusativeGeneral schema:(ACC;NOMacc=APP) %OFaccWer hat die Sekret~irin Moser?Who has the secretary Moser?
( SEK ;NOMsek=Moser) %OFsekMoser Sauer Moser SauerMahleMeierWer hat Moser als Sekret~irin?Who has Moser as his secretary?The name and the apposit ion are permuted by thegrammar, so that the input to the translation is thesame as in the previous example.A.l.h.
Apposition, name in the nominativeGeneral schema:(APP;OFapp=NOM) %NOMapponly for appositions to the accusativeWen hat Sauer als Sekret~irin?Whom does Sauer have as his secretary?In one reading of this sentence, "as a secretary" isI I  11 read as apposition to Sauer , and the question cannotbe answered.
The second, preferred, reading of thesentence places the apposition with the accusative:( SEK ;OFsek:Sauer) %NOMsekMoser Sauer Sauer MoserK~n i gKuferWhere the name is in the apposition,Wen hat die Sekret~irin Moser?Whom does the secretary Moser have?there is no second reading: the answer is not defined.A.l.i.
Apposition and two interrogative pronounsGeneral schema:(APP;NOMapp) ?/b NOMapp,OFapponly for appositions to the accusativeWer hat wen als Sekret~irin?Who has whom as his secretary?
( SEK ;NOMsek) %OFsek ,NOMsekMoser Sauer Moser Sauer MoserMahle Konig Mahle Konig MahleMaier KiJfer Maier Ku'fer MaierWen hat wer als Manager?Whom does who have as his manager?Again, the first reading associates "manager" with thenoun phrase preceding it, and there is no answer.
Thesecond reading places the apposition with "wen" andis translated like the previous example, though withdifferent relations.
( MA ;NOMma) %NOMma,OFmaStern Moser Stern Stern MoserStern Mahle Stern Stern MahleSauer Konig Sauer Sauer Konig116 Amer ican  Journa l  of  Computational Linguistics, Vo lume 7, Number  2, Apr i l - June 1981Magdalena Zoeppritz The Mean ing  of  OF and HAVE in the USL-SystemA.2.
Relative clausesA.2.a.
Two relationsGeneral schema:((NOMxACC) ;NOMnom= OFacc) %NOMrelManager, der eine Sekret~rin hatManager, who has a secretary( ( MA x SEK ) ;NOMma=OFsek) %NOMmaSauer Konig Moser Sauer Stern Sauer SauerStern KonigSauer KiJferManager, den eine Sekret~irin hatManager, whom a secretary has( ( SEK x MA ) ;NOMsek=OFma) %NOMmaMoser Sauer Stern Moser Moser Moser SternMahle Konig Stern Mahle Mahle MahleMaier KonigA.2.b.
Relation and nameGeneral schema:(AC C; OFacc = NOM) % NOMrelManager, den Moser hatManager whom Moser has( MA ;OFma=Moser) %NOMmaStern Moser Moser SternMahleKiln i gManager, der Moser hatManager who has MoserThe accusative is not a relation; the answer is notdefined.B.
NegationB.1.
QuestionsB.l.a.
Two relationsGeneral schema:(NOMwh- ( ( (NOMxAC C) ;NOMnom= OFacc) % NOMwh) )Welcher Manager hat keine Sekret~irin?Which Manager does not have a secretary?
(NOMma-(( ( MA x Sek) ;NOMma=OFsek) %NOMma) )Stern Sauer K~nig Moser Sauer Stern Sauer SternStern Stern KonigSauer Sauer KiJfer SauerWelchen Manager hat Keine Sekret~irin?Which manager does no secretary have?
(NOMma-(( ( SEK x MA ) ;NOMsek=OFma) %NOMma) )Stern Moser Sauer Stern Moser Moser Moser SternStern Mahle K~nig Stern Mahle Mahle Mahle SternSauer Maier Konig SauerB.l .b.
Relation and interrogative pronounWho does not have a secretary?The general schema would look like:(NOMwh-(ACC;OFacc) %NOMacc)But since the interrogative pronoun does not contain arelation, there is no set to subtract from.
These ques-tions cannot be answered in USL, because the setoften implied by the context or the meaning of wordsis not known.
The set is given by formulations like"which x does not have y".B.I.c.
Relation and nameGeneral schema:NOT(ACC;OFacc=NOM) %NOMaccHat Moser keinen Manager?Does Moser have no Manager?NOT( MA ;OFma=Moser) %NOMmaStern Moser Moser Stern the set isMahle not empty:Maier DOCHHat Moser kein Manager?Does no manager have Moser?The accusative is not a relation; the answer is notdefined.B.l .d.
AppositionsWer hat die Sekretfirin Moser nicht?Who does not have the secretary Moser?Wer hat keine Sekret~rin Moser?Who has no secretary named Moser?These examples can be interpreted as "who of thepeople having secretaries have a secretary other thanMoser".
This interpretation is not implemented, be-cause for the majority of negated questions containinginterrogative pronouns, there is no interpretation inUSL.
So the exceptions are not interpreted either, toavoid confusion.The general schema would look like:(OFacc- ((ACC ;NOMacc = APP) % OFacc)The examples above would be translated as:(OFsek-(( SEK ;NOMsek=Moser) %OFsek) )Sauer Moser Sauer Moser SauerKiJnig Mahle KonigKiJfer Mai er KiJferB.2.
Relative clausesB.2.a.
Two relations"General schema:(NOMrel-(((NOMxACC);NOMnom=OFacc) %NOMrel))Sekret~rin, die keinen Manager hatSecretary who does not have a manager(NOMsek-(( ( SEK x MA ) ;NOMsek=OFma) %NOMsek) )Moser Moser Sauer Stern Moser Moser Moser MoserMahle Mahle K~nig Stern Mahle Mahle Mahle MahleMaier Maier Konig MaierSekret~rin, die kein Manager hatSecretary, whom no manager has(NOMsek-(( ( MA x SEK ) ;NOMma=OFsek) %NOMsek) )Moser Sauer Konig Moser Sauer Stern Sauer MoserMahle Stern Konig MahleMaier Sauer K~fer MaierAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Vo lume 7, Number  2, Apr i l - June 1981 .
117iMagdalena Zoeppritz The Meaning of OF and HAVE in the USL-SystemB.2.b.
Relation and nameGeneral schema:(NOMreI-((ACC;OFacc=NOM) %NOMrel))Sekret~irin, die den Sauer nicht hatSecretary, who does not have SauerThe accusative is not a relation; the answer is notdefined.Sekretiirin, die der Sauer nicht hatSecretary whom Sauer does not have(NOMsek- ( ( SEK ;OFsek=Sauer) %NOMsek) )Moser Moser Sauer Sauer MoserMahl e Koni g Mahl eMai er Kufer Mai er5.
WITH and WITHOUTPrepositional phrases containing WITH and WITH-OUT can also be related to OF-phrases (Lees1960:93) and to HAVE (Poldauf I967:33f.)
,  unlessthe prepositions are governed by the verb or are partof instrumental, comitative, or adverbial phrases.Where WITH-phrases are defined as prepositionalcomplements of nouns, verbs or adjectives, they arerelated to the corresponding WITH-column in thecorresponding relation.
WITHOUT should then betreated as "not with", but this is not implemented.Phrases containing WITH and WITHOUT that are notcomplements are interpreted in tile following manner:The NOM-column of the relation addressed by thenoun governing the prepositional phrase is related tothe OF-column of the relation addressed by the prepo-sitional phrase.
As a result, except for the columns, forprojection and subtraction, the following groups ofphrases each have the same transIation:(SEK;OFsek=x)secretary of xx has secretaryx with secretaryx's secretaryNOT(SEK;.OFsek=x)not secretary of xx has no secretaryx without secretarynot x's secretary( (MAxSEK) ;NOMma=OFsek)secretary of managermanager has secretarymanager with secretarymanager's secretaryNOT((MAxSEK) ;NOMma=OFsek)not secretary of managermanager has no secretarymanager without secretarynot manager's secretary6.
ProblemsIn conclusion, some of the problems of this inter-pretation must be pointed out.
If there are relationsPOSSESS or OWN in the data base, HAVE sentencescould be meant to refer to these relations.
But thereis no mechanism that automatically would look forsuch relations and either access them directly or resortto them if the standard interpretation fails.
A solutionto this problem is for the user to define HAVE as asynonym for POSSESS.
He can then delete thesystem-defined HAVE altogether, if he is sure to useHAVE only in the sense of OWN.
But he will proba-bly want his definition in addition to the system de-fined HAVE.
This leads to two parses and interpreta-tions.
In many cases only one of them will bring re-suits, but sometimes both lead to the same answer.Thus,Does John have a secretary?will be interpreted both as:Is there a secretary of John?andDoes John own a secretary?where the second interpretation will fail.
But thequeryDoes John have a car?can bring answers to both interpretations, dependingon the structure of the data base.A consequence of not having a relation HAVE onthe one hand and on the other of expecting alt adver-bials and prepositional phrases to refer to columns inrelations causes difficulties where prepositions areused in conjunction with HAVE and also with BE, asin questions like:Where does Peter have his office?To whom is Peter married?When is Peter's birthday?Is Peter's birthday on Friday?The German equivalent of the last two questions usesthe verb HAVE:Wann hat Peter Geburtstag?Hat Peter am Freitag Geburtstag?For sentences with HAVE and BE as the mainverb, the adverbials and prepositional phrases whichhave been attached to the verb by the grammar arerelocated to the noun phrase addressing the relationthat contains the corresponding columns.
For theexamples above, this means the columns LA, P=to ,and TA, respectively, in the relations OFF ICE,BIRTHDAY, and MARRIED.A serious problem for which we currently have nosolution results from the fact that there is no interpre-tation where the accusative does not contain a rela-tion.
As can be seen from the examples, it is oftenintuitively clear what the interpretation of such sen-118 American Journal of  Computat iona l  Linguistics, Volume 7, Number 2, Apr i l - June 1981Magdalena Zoeppritz The Meaning of OF and HAVE in the USL-Systemtences could be.
"The secretary who has Sauer" couldeasily be the secretary of Sauer in the context of "whohas whom to work for", but in the context of "whohas which manager",  the "secretary who has Sauer"can be the one whose manager is Sauer.
As wasshown above, the predicate HAVE is a derived predi-cate, it is applicable only where a more basic associa-tion exists between the elements in question.
Thispredicate is found explicitly expressed, where HAVEsentences are expanded by AS-complements.Peter has a musician as secretaryIf there is no AS-complement and the accusative ofHAVE contains a common noun, that noun generallypoints to the predicate; the AS-complement would beredundant.Peter has a musiciancan be read asPeter has a musician as his musicianBut in the proper context, the base predicate can beclearly something else: In a conversation about hob-bies of secretaries, the same sentence "Peter has amusician" can meanPeter has a musician as his secretaryIn human dialogue the general rule that the basepredicate appears in the accusative noun phrase can beoverridden by special contexts, but in the general casethe rule holds and can be used in the framework ofdata base interaction.
In the absence of reference to apredicate in the accusative of HAVE,  the base predi-cate can only be deduced from the context.
It can beone of the properties of the element in the accusative,e.g.
Sauer's being a manager, a father, or an employer,or it can coincide with the predicate referred to by thenominative.
Therefore, the attempt at interpretationof such sentences would lead to choosing among plau-sible alternatives, choices that would remain arbitraryeven if carefully made, and the results would be unre-liable.
We have avoided this at the cost of not provid-ing general interpretations for these cases, even thoughthe individual case is often intuitively interpretable,because we feel that in the framework of data baseinteraction it is more important for the system to reactconsistently and reliably than to simulate human dia-logue.Since this paper was originally written, the USLSystem has moved to using System R as the data basemanagement system, with SQL as the query languageand target language for the interpretation.
ThePRTV-version of USL has been used by small groupsin their applications, and initial results are encouraging(Lehmann et al, 1978, Krause, 1979).
Further studyis necessary, particularly with respect to data-basedesign and vocabulary definition by users.ReferencesBach, E. (1967): "Have and be in English syntax," Language 43,462-485.Bennet, M.R.
(1974): "Some extensions of a montague fragment ofEnglish," UCLA Dissertation, Indiana Linguistics Club (1975).Bierwisch, M. (1965): "Eine Hierarchic syntaktisch-semantischerMerkmale," Studia Grammatika V, 29-86.Codd, E.F. (1972): "Relational completeness of data base sublan-guages," Research Report RJ 987, IBM Research Laboratory,San Jose, California.CressweU, M.J. (1973): Logics and Languages.
London.Dostert, B.H., and Thompson, F.B.
(1971): "The syntax of RELEnglish," REL Report No.
1, California Institute of Technology,Pasadena.Kay, M. (1967): "Experiments with a powerful parser," SecondInternational Conference on Computational Linguistics, Grenoble,August 1967,Krause, J.
(1979): "Preliminary results of a user study with the'User Specialty Languages' System and consequences for thearchitecture of natural language interfaces," Technical ReportTR 79.04.003, IBM Heidelberg Scientific Center.Langacker, R.W.
(1975): "Functional stratigraphy," Papers f romthe Parasession on Functionalism, April 17, 1975, (ed.
R.E.Grossmann, L.J.
San, and T.J. Vance), Chicago LinguisticSociety, Chicago.Lees, R.B.
(1960): The Grammar of English Nominalizations, TheHague.Lehmann, H., Ott, N., and Zoeppritz, M. (1977): "Languagefacilities of USL/German, Version III," Technical Note TN77.04, IBM Heidelberg Scientific Center, 1977.Lehmann, H., Ott N., and Zoeppritz, M. (1978): "User experi-ments with natural anguage for data base access," Proceedings7th International Conference on Computational Linguistics, Ber-gen, Norway, August 1978.Lehmann, H. (1978): "Interpretation of natural language in aninformation system," IBM Journal of  Research and Development22, 5, 560-572.Ott, N. (1977): "Interpretation of questions with quantifiers andnegation in the USL System," Technical Report TN 77.10.005,IBM Heidelberg Scientific Center.Ott, N. (1979): "Das experimentelle, auf natOrlicher Sprachebasierende Informationssystem USL," Nachrichten fuer Doku-mentation 3, 129-139.Pitha, P. (1971): "Remarks on Possessivity," Prague Bulletin ofMathematical Linguistics 16, 33-46.Pitha, P. (1972): "Remarks on Possessivity II," Prague Bulletin ofMathematical Linguistics 17, 25-36.Poldauf, I.
(1967): "The have construction," Prague Studies inEnglish 12, 40.Thompson, F.B., Lockemann, P.C., Dostert, B.H., and Deverill,R.S.
(1969): "REL: A rapidly extensible language system,"Proceedings 24th National ACM Conference, New York, August1969.Todd, S.J.P.
(1975): "PRTV - A technical overview," TechnicalReport UKSC 0075, IBM Scientific Center, Peterlee, England,(also in IBM Systems Journal 15, 285-308).Magdalena Zoeppritz is a staff member at the IBMHeidelberg Scientific Center.
She received the Master ofArts degree in English and general linguistics from theUniversity of Hamburg in 1968.American Journal  of Computat iona l  Linguistics, Vo lume 7, Number 2, Apri l - June 1981 119
