4.
Machine Tr,ansUationMart in  Kay,  Cha i rpersonXerox CorporationPalo Alto, CA 94304PanelistsMargaret King, ISSCOJack Lehrberger, Universit6 de MontrealAlan Melby, Brigham Young UniversityJonathan Slocum, University of TexasA Manhattan project could produce an atomicbomb, and the heroic efforts of the sixties could put aman on the moon, but even an all-out effort on thescale of these would probably not solve the translationproblem.
In one sense, this almost goes without say-ing.
The first ninety percent of the work that wasinvested in reaching the moon did not get the astro-nauts nine-tenths of the way there and the heat gener-ated by the bomb did not increase steadily as the dateof the first explosion approached.
The translationproblem is one whose solution must be reached incre-mentally.
There will be no dramatic event to signalthe end of the search and there is no single break-through that would assure success.The translation problem is real and will in fact rap-idly reach crisis proportions unless some action is tak-en.
The problem cannot be alleviated by better lan-guage teaching, greater incentives for translators, orimproved administrative procedures, worthy thoughthese goals undoubtedly are.
The only hope for athoroughgoing solution seems to lie with technology.But this is not to say that there is only one solution,namely machine translation, in the classical sense of afully automatic procedure that carries a text from onelanguage to another with human intervention only inthe final revision.
There is, in fact, a continuum ofways in which technology could be brought to bear,with fully automatic translation at one extreme, andword-processing equipment and dictating machines atthe other.The productivity of the professional translatorcould almost certainly be greatly increased by techno-logical aids which, though straightforward, are not allobvious.
Powerful machine aids to translators couldquickly be available and may be the best way to allevi-ate the translation problem in the short run.
They willnot arise as a natural by-product of work on fully au-tomatic translation because, for the most part, theyaddress such issues as communication among transla-tors, identification of relevant secondary material, andspecial editing devices, rather than issues of syntactieanalysis, pronominal  reference and quantif ier scope.The most valuable resources that a translator has forsolving difficult problems are the text he is workingon, other texts like it in the target as well as thesource language, and his colleagues.
At present, ac-cess to these resources is haphazard at best.
But,improving it immeasurably is well within the scope ofexisting technology.Another easily identifiable point on the continuumis occupied by human-aided machine translation.
Thiscould be a very different kind of enterprise both fromfully automatic and machine-aided translation, Byhuman-aided machine translation, we mean to refer tosystems in which the machine, while retaining the initi-ative, works with a human consultant, who need notbe a translator.
Once again, the subtleties in the de-sign of the system would not reside so much in basiclinguistic questions as in how to recognize reliablywhen a difficulty of a certain type had arisen and howto communicate the nature of the difficulty to theconsultant in such a way as to elicit a quick and unam-biguous response.
Especially in the early stages, ahuman-aided machine-translat ion system intended toproduce output of high quality might well require atleast as much work on the part of the consultant as atrained translator would take to do the job in the tra-ditional way.
However,  two facts can be set againstthis.
First, the consultant would not have to be atranslator and could quite possibly be drawn from amuch larger segment of the labor pool.
Secondly,while the labor involved in translating a text grows indirect proport ion to the number of languages intowhich it must be rendered, the work required of theconsultant in such a man-machine team would growmuch more slowly.
Indeed, if those languages wereclosely related, it could be expected to fall off sharplyas soon as that number exceeded one.A substantial proport ion of what follows will bedevoted to upholding the panel's view that it is impor-tant for work to proceed in parallel on a number ofdifferent fronts.
While fully automatic translation isthe most adventurous, it is from this that we stand tolearn most about language in general, and translationin particular.
If fully automatic systems can be builtwhose performance xceeds that of present systems byeven a modest amount, we should profit greatly as well74 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number 2, April-June 1982Martin Kay Machine Translationfrom their practical utility as from the theoretical les-sons enshrined in them.
Machine-aided translationcan enhance the translator's productivity, though wehave yet to discover how much enhancement is possi-ble in this way.
It could also be a source of invaluableinformation on how translators work.
Human-aidedmachine translation can be expected to give betterresults than could be achieved with the fully automaticmethod, since the human consultant can be calledupon to resolve otherwise unresolvable problems, butat an unknown cost.
However, there are importantapplications, notably where one text must be translat-ed into several languages, where the gains may besubstantial.We have been at pains to make it clear that thethree methods of involving machines in language trans-lation are not essentially different in kind but lie on acontinuum.
Except in a few special applications, someof which we will mention shortly, we do not foresee atime when translations of any quality will be producedwithout any human intervention whatsoever.
In theso-called fully automatic method, the human plays therole of an editor, or revisor.
His involvement beginsonly after an initial draft in the target language existsand it is for this reason that we remain content withthe term "fully automatic".
The other two methodsinvolve him earlier so that he influences even that firstdraft.The methods therefore differ as to how the personis involved.
They also differ in the extent of his in-volvement.
If the human partner can influence all thedecisions that are made, he may be in a position toforestall sequences of errors, each resulting from theone before, thus reducing the total amount of his con-tribution.
On the other hand, if a conservative systeminsists on having him confirm even those choices forwhich its own decision methods are substantially ade-quate, then the overall extent of his involvement maybe increased.
In any case, the utility of a given systemin a particular situation cannot be assessed by a simpleequation.
The appropriate utility function involves atleast the human cost, the machine cost, the quality ofthe result, and the nature of the consumer9s require-ments.The consumer's requirements are, of course, cru-cial.
The various types and degrees of automation intranslation are, as we have seen, positioned along onedimension in a space of possible approaches to theoverall problem.
The different types of text and theirconsumers are another dimension and, not surprisingly,the two dimensions are far from independent.
Thetype of technology appropriate to a problem, and thebenefits to be expected from it, differ greatly with thetype of the text to be translated and the use to whichthe result will be put.
In the intelligence services, agreat deal of translation is done for purposes of cur-rent awareness.
The first priority is to know the sub-ject matter of the document.
It is also helpful to beable to discern the gist of the argument so as to dis-cover whether it touches on certain key questions.
Arough and ready translation, especially if it can bedone quickly and cheaply, may give an excellent basison which to decide which parts of a document, if any,need to be translated more carefully.
Fully automatictranslation, even of quite inferior quality, has alreadyproven very valuable in this role.Fully automatic translation, or some close relativeof it, has also proved useful in recent years in situa-tions where a sublanguage has come to be used, orwhere one can be readily imposed.
Canadian weatherreports are routinely translated by such a system.
Thesystem itself determines whether each translation unit- approximately a sentence - is within its capabilities.If it is, then it produces a translation, which is the onethat will be used without human revision.
If not, itpresents the translation unit to a human collaborator,who makes the translation.
We prefer to classify thiswith fully automatic translation because, though themachine does not translate everything that is translat-ed, the translation it does is done entirely withouthuman involvement even at a post-editing stage.
Themachine in fact translates eighty per cent of all trans-lation units and readers of the reports prove unable todiscern which parts were translated by machine andwhich by a human.The success of this METEO system comes from thefact that meteorologists naturally write in a highlyconstrained subset of English.
Fully automatic trans-lation has also been successfully applied to the task oftranslating maintenance manuals for machines.
Thesuccess of this does not rest on the existence of a nat-urally occurring sublanguage.
In this case, the techni-cal writers who prepare the manuals learn to follow aset of rules intended to ensure that their products willautomatically translatable by simple means.
The rulesare straightforward and can be learnt in a two-weekcourse.
The machine translates the whole text withoutoutside assistance and preliminary results encouragethe belief that little or no editing will be required.The features of a sublanguage that make it suitablefor fully automatic machine translation are (1) restrict-ed vocabulary, with consequent reduction in the num-ber of words with more than one grammatical catego-ry, (2) small number of senses for each word in a giv-en category due to the restricted semantic domain, and(3) restricted syntax resulting from the purpose of thetext, e.g., instruction manuals may contain only imper-ative sentences and weather reports only declaratives.It should not be thought, however, that a sublanguageis simply a subset of the sentences of the standardlanguage.
The syntax of a sublanguage may differradically from that of the standard language so that aAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number 2, April-June 1982 75Martin Kay Machine Translationgrammar of the latter would not cover the construc-tions of the former.
Thus "Fair tommorrow" and"Winds from the northeast" are "sentences" in aweather bulletin.
There are also closely related do-mains in which texts have a common syntax, and differonly in vocabulary.
An extensive study of sublanguag-es, their restrictions and interrelations, will be impor-tant for determining the range of applications of fullyautomatic translation.
The question of is a complexsubject o which the report of another panel is devot-ed.The following table summarizes our view of thethree most interesting points on the continuum.InformationAcquisitionDenotativeTranslationConnotativeTranslationsFully Automat icMach ine  Trans lat ioncan be quite cheap(revision excluded)requires effort andexperience to readtechnical material;possibly othermaterialapplicationsexist, greatlyimprovablefaster andcheaper thanhuman 1st passhuman revisionrequiredtechnicalmaterialtechnology comingof age; applicationsexist (METEO); verylarge intermediateand long-term payoffN/AHuman Ass istedMach ine  Trans lat ionN/Avery high-qualityespecially multi-lingualpossibly high costtechnicalmaterialfew or no existingprototypes; FAMTspinoffs possiblein near term withsuitable fundingMach ine  Ass is tedHuman Trans lat ionincreased humanefficiencymore expensive andslower then FAMTalmost anymaterialtechnology exists;might use FAMTto select candidatesincreased humanefficiencyhigh minimumcostsalmost anymaterialcommercial systemsexist (e.g., ALPS);FAMT spinoffscould reduce costsin near termadvantagesdisadvantagestext typesstatus andprospectsadvantagesdisadvantagestext typesstatus andprospectsincreased human advantagesefficiencynecessarily costlyN/A legal and religioustexts; literature?technology exists;greatly improvabledisadvantagestext typesstatus andprospects76 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number 2, April-June 1982Martin Kay Machine TranslationLegendFully Automatic Machine Translation (FAMT) refersto translation wherein the programs run in "batch"mode (off-l ine) and produce translations withouthuman intervention; afterwards, human revision(post-editing) may be performed with a text editingprogram or via other means, if desired.Machine-Assisted Human Translation (MAHT) refersto translation wherein the program is a fancy edit-ing and dictionary concordance tool which the hu-man translator uses to increase his eff iciency byautomating his access to word definitions and ter-minology correspondences.
All initiative resideswith the human, unlike FAMT and HAMT.Information Acquistion refers to a situation in whichtranslation is being performed for "currentawareness" or "screening" purposes where a quick-and-dirty approach may be sufficient, at least todetermine if a more careful translation is justified.No human revision (post-editing) is assumed.Denotative Translation refers to an information disse-mination situation in which the everyday and tech-nical definitions of the words are meant, and wheresubtle nuances of a word choice are unjustified oreven undesirable.
This is typical of technical texts.Connotative Translation refers to an information dis-semination situation in which subtle nuances ofword choice are very important, if not critical, inconveying the intended meaning of the text.
Thisis typical of, for example, religious, and literarytexts.At the opposite end of the spectrum from current-awareness ervices are such delicate enterprises as thetranslation of legal statutes and political speeches.
Alawyer in Finland can base his arguments either on theFinnish or the Swedish version of the applicable law,according to which he considers will most favor hisclient's case.
All statutes must be translated and thetranslators must be at great pains to ensure that thereis no construction, however perverse, that can be puton one version but not on the other.
We do not fore-see a time when any part of this job could be usefullyconsigned to a fully automatic or even a human-aided,system.
On the other hand, it would be a prime candi-date for machine-aided methods.
There is constantneed to compare one part of the text with others, andwith other legal texts, to ensure consistency, and thisis where these methods come into their own.If our optimism about the future of mechanicalmethods in translation has increased uring the twentyyears during which it has been seriously pursued, itmust be largely because of important advances that weperceive in theoretical and computational linguistics aswell as computer science.
Advances in computer sci-ence are the least contentious of these.
The construc-tion of most large internal memories was not availableand external memory could be accessed only in a serialmanner.
The consequent inefficiency in the programsthat were written is less important than the undueamount of effort that was required to make them workat all.
A machine-translation program was large, evenby today's standards, and each one produced in thesixties was a programming tour de force.
The achieve-ments are even more impressive for the fact that theywere made without the aid of the compilers, editorsand other paraphernal ia that programmers now takefor granted,  and before the great value of certain pro-gramming practices and disciplines had been recogniz-ed.Many of the important advances made in computa-tional linguistics during the same period also tend to-wards the easier construction of more robust systemsthat can be more readily maintained.
The most obvi-ous examples come from the domain of syntactic anal-ysis which is now universally thought of as a job to bedone by a fairly general parsing program, coupled witha grammar.
The parser embodies the necessary strate-gies and techniques while all knowledge of the particu-lar language resides in a static data structure, namelythe grammar.
Associated with the grammar is a formallanguage in which a linguist writes rules from whichthe data structure is obtained automatically.
Thisformal language is specially designed to facilitate thestatement of linguistic facts and is largely decoupledfrom the grammar itself and from the methods thatwill be used to process it.
This greatly increases thepower that the linguist can bring to the job and hisability to modify the system in the light of experience.In the same period we have come to understand,not just how a general-purpose parser can be con-structed, but how to make these parsers more effectiveby the application of some very general principles.
Inparticular, we have come to appreciate the value of thenotions of complete parsing and of nondeterminism.By complete parsing, we mean simply the requirementthat nothing shall count as part of the final result ex-cept inasmuch as it is part of an analysis of an entiresentence.
The practical value of this apparently obvi-ous restriction would be difficult to overestimate.
Aparser that incorporates it largely releases the grammarwriter from concern for when it would be incorrect toallow an analysis that would be correct in anotherenvironment, a concern which consumed much time onthe part of the designers of early translation systems.General methods for implementing nondeterminismgo together with this and have an equally liberatingeffect.
These methods are useful in situations where,at any given stage of the process, a number of con-flicting possibilities are open, any number of whichcould lead to useful results.
In particular, a completeparser, in the present sense, must pursue lines of at-tack that seem reasonable on the basis of local eviden-American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number 2, April-June 1982 77Martin Kay Machine Translationce, but which may or may not lead to a complete anal-ysis.
A general method for handling nondeterminacyreleases the programmer from all concern for how themachine will contrive to follow up on all possibilities;how and when it will return to the choice point andrestore the exact state as of that moment,  how it willfollow all possibilities once, but none more than once,and so forth.
To the extent that early translation sys-tems faced these problems at all, they did so on a caseby case basis, and at great cost in human labor.The panel was also impressed by the advances thathave been made in general linguistics and our overallunderstanding of the workings of human language inrecent years.
Various classical problems--noun-nouncompounds in English, ambiguities of preposit ionalattachment, conjunction, pronominal reference, andmany others--have been made the object of intensiveresearch with results that are direct relevance in theconstruction of translation systems.The panel thought it had every reason to assumethat progress on the relevant fronts would go forwardat least as quickly as in the past.
Most of the mem-bers confidently expect to see some major new fullyautomatic systems in use during that period.
In partic-ular, it is hoped that EUROTRA, a very large-scalecollaborative European effort, will result in a workingprototype.
In addition, there is work in progress in anumber of places on computer-based work stations foruse by translators.
It is not clear what these will in-corporate, but it is likely that they will explore somenew parts of the large space of possibilities that existin machine-aided translation.The panel made no prediction about just whichareas of research were likely to fall before the inexora-ble advance of theoretical linguistics but felt that thefuture of more technological areas was easier to fore-see.
There will, in all probabil i ty be more flexiblemethods of syntactic analysis, capable of relaxing re-quirements in the face of constructions that would notmeet with a pundit's approval.
Either they will fallback on more permissive rules or they will modify thesentence to "correct"  the apparent "error".
It is alsoexpected that wider use will be made of parsing de-vices which, while allowing for nondeterminism in ageneral way, will be able to make fairly accuratejudgements about the paths that are most likely to leadto a successful solution, and so concentrate on thesefirst.The panel was in agreement on the achievements ofthe past and on the desirability of following a numberof parallel paths in the future.
The disagreementsconcerned the extent of the optimism in future suc-ce,;ses that those past achievements warrant.
Someme, mbers took the view that advances in computerscience and computat ional  linguistics, importantthough they are, do not go to the heart of the prob-lem; they make easier what once was hard but theymake nothing possible that once was impossible.
Lin-guistics has made advances of which it can feel justlyproud but which, while they may indeed go to theheart of the matter, barely scratch the surface of whatneeds to be done.All agree that it would be unjustifiable to devote anexcessive proportion of the available resources to fullyautomatic systems while neglecting cheaper and moremodest approaches with more certain short-term pay-off.
Unless caution is exercised, both in promisesmade and policies followed, there is a high risk thattaxpayers and administrators will call all too soon for asecond ALPAC report whose effect on the entire fieldof computational  linguistics will be altogether moredevastating than the first.Some members believe that sponsors have grownmore realistic in their expectations, that so long asthey are involved in a continual dialog about the prog-ress of the work they can be made to understand theproblems, and that they have the fortitude to with-stand unreasonable pressure from their superiors andtheir electors.
They no longer, for example, expectfull translations of arbitrary texts, but are content withtexts from suitably restricted omains.It is claimed earlier in this report, and agreed uponby all the panel members, that fully automatic transla-tion is the line of attack whose benefits, if realized,would be greatest.
Futhermore,  its success wouldcontribute greatly to the successes of all other ap-proaches.
The subscribers to this view are impressedby the extent to which the designers of early systemswere overcome by the sheer complexity of the designand programming task that they had undertaken sothat the systems they built cannot be taken as a meas-ure of the technology that linguistics, even the linguis-tics of that day, could support.78 Amer ican Journal  of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number  2, Apr i l - June 1982
