Applied Computational Linguistics in Perspective:Proceedings of the WorkshopCarroll Johnson 1Navy Center for Applied Research in Artificial IntelligenceNavy Research LaboratoryWashington, D.C. 20375Joan BachenkoNaval Research LaboratoryWashington, D.C. 203750.
INTRODUCTIONOf the various subdisciplines in Artificial Intelli-gence, only a few have matured to the state that prac-tical application seems imminent.
Of these, computa-tional linguistics appears to be a leading contender forreal world applications in the immediate future.
Onearea of special interest o the Naval Research Labora-tory (NRL) is the application of computational linguis-tics in automated message systems.The scheduled meeting of the ACL at StanfordUniversity June 29-July 1, provided an opportunity fora workshop June 26-27 at Stanford.
The workshop,"Applied Computational Linguistics in Perspective",was organized in May 1981 as a joint effort by NRL,ACL, and the National Science Foundation (NSF),with funding provided by the Office of Naval Research(ONR).
The goal of the workshop was to establish aninformed consensus on realistic expectations for ap-plied computational linguistics within a five year timeframe.
The workshop program committee, consistingof Carroll Johnson, Chairman (NRL Visiting Scien-tist), Joan Bachenko (NRL), Henry Hamburger(NSF), and Norman Sondheimer (Sperry Univac),invited five panel chairmen who in turn invited themembers of their respective panels.Discussions with several individuals from ONR,DARPA, NSF, and the Air Force Office of ScientificResearch (AFOSR) helped focus the choice of paneltopics.
These topics mapped remarkably well onto theproblem of developing automated message systems.Therefore, this problem was used as a general themefor the workshop discussions.In general, the message systems problem concernsthe distribution of information among message sendersand recipients, where the information encoded in amessage is coordinated and augmented by a dynamicknowledge base that represents the current operationalsituation.
Incoming messages update the knowledgebase, which may modify the address, the priority, oreven the content of a message before the message isdisseminated.
Such a system might use computationallinguistics in several ways.
For example, maintainingan updated dynamic situation model requires a humansupervisor who can monitor the system's conclusionsand override its decisions, when necessary.
A NaturalLanguage Interface between the situation model data-base and the person in charge thus provides one appli-cation for computational linguistics.
If updating re-quires that a message be modified, Text Generationprovides a second application area in which computa-tional linguistic techniques might be used to rewriteportions of a message or to append an update note.
Athird application area is Concept Extraction, whichextracts information from an incoming message andbuilds a suitable knowledge base representation.
Afourth area, Machine Translation, may increase theeffectiveness of multinational operations where thenative language of a message originator differs fromthat of a message recipient.
Finally, studies in Sublan-guage provide a linguistic foundation for each of theseapplications.Copyright 1982 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is grantedprovided that the copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the Journal reference and this copyright notice are included onthe first page.
To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or  specific permission.0362-613X/82/020055-31 $03.00t Visiting Scientist from Oak Ridge National Laboratory, 1981.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number 2, April-June 1982 55
