5.
SublanguagesRichard Kittredge, ChairpersonUniversitd de MontrealMontreal, Quebec PQH3C3J7PanelistsJoan Bachenko, Naval Research LaboratoryRalph Grishman, New York UniversityDonald E. Walker, SRI InternationalRalph Weischedel, University of Delaware5.1 Why Are Sublanguages Important for AppliedComputational Lingustics?Four of the five panels at this workshop are assess-ing the perspectives in applied computational linguis-tics for four important problem areas: natural-languageinterfaces, machine translation, text generation, andconcept extraction.
For each of these areas, it is as-sumed that any applied system will be oriented towardthe particular variety of natural language associatedwith a single knowledge domain.
This follows fromthe now widely accepted fact that such systems requirerather tight, primarily semantic, constraints to obtain acorrect analysis, and that such constraints can at pres-ent be stated only for sublanguages, not for the lan-guage as a whole.
Although a practical system maywell have components that are designed to accommo-date the whole language, it must also anticipate theparticular syntactic, lexical, semantic, and discourseproperties of the sublanguage in which it will operate.Research into the linguistic structure of weatherreports, medical records, and aircraft maintenancemanuals has led to specialized grammars for the sub-languages of these domains.
Central to each sublan-guage grammar is a statement of the functionally simi-lar word classes and the co-occurrence restrictionsamong these classes.
When a parser, generator, ortranslation system incorporates uch a precise linguis-tic description, it becomes not only more efficient butalso capable of discriminating between sentences (andtexts) that are appropriate to the domain and thosethat are grammatical but inappropriate.
In addition,the word classes used in the grammar, and the hierar-chies relating these classes, are an important part ofthe knowledge structure for the domain.5.2 How Do Sublanguages Arise?When natural language is used in a sufficientlyrestricted setting, we may be justified in calling theresultant forms a sublanguage.
Although there is nogenerally accepted definition of this term.
Severalfactors are usually present when the subset of a natu-ral language is restricted enough for efficient semanticprocessing.?
Restricted omain of reference.
The set of objectsand relations to which the linguistic expressionsrefer is relatively small.?
Restricted purpose and orientation.
The relation-ships among the participants in the linguistic ex-change are of a particular type and the purpose ofthe exchange is oriented towards certain goals.?
Restricted mode of communication.
Communica-tion may be spoken or written, but there areconstraints on the form of expression, which mayinclude "bandwidth" limitations.
Compressed (ortelegraphic) language forms may reflect the timeand space constraints of certain communicationmodes.?
Community of participants sharing specializedknowledge.
The best canonical examples of sub-languages are those for which there exists an iden-tifiable community of users who share specializedknowledge and who communicate under restrictionsof domain, purpose, and mode by using the sublan-guage.
These participants enforce the special pat-terns of usage and ensure the coherence and com-pleteness of the sublanguage as a linguistic system.5.3 Constraints and Extensions in the Grammar of aSublanguageA typical sublanguage makes use of only a part ofthe language's lexical, morphological, syntactic, seman-tic, and discourse structures.
These restrictions on itsgrammar, once detected and encoded in the form ofrules, can be exploited during automatic processing bygreatly reducing the number of possibilities to be con-sidered.
A sublanguage may also exhibit structures(and, hence, rules) that are not normally regarded aspart of the standard language.
In the most generalcase, then, a sublanguage grammar intersects, but isnot contained in, the grammar of the general or stand-ard language from which it derives.Some of the typical constraints and extensionsfound in each component of a sublanguage grammarare given below, along with reference to recognizedtechniques for describing the constraints and for iden-tifying them in a corpus of texts, when appropriate.
InAmerican Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number 2, April-June 1982 79Richard Kittredge Sublanguagesaddition, we mention a number of mechanisms forcapturing these constraints for the purposes of com-puter processing.5.3.1 Lexical and Morphological CharacteristicsThe most obvious feature of a sublanguage is itsspecialized lexicon.
Not only is the set of word forms(and their possible meanings) highly restricted, but theproductive word-formation rules may be of a particularkind, sometimes unique to the sublanguage or to afamily of related sublanguages.
Texts in medicine andpharmacology, for example, may contain a rich varietyof names for diseases and drugs, which are constructedusing characteristic affixes.
Military sublanguagesmake frequent use of acronyms which obey describa-ble rules of noun phrase formation in the grammar.Many sublanguages employ symbolic expressions (e.g.,mathematics) or abbreviations which can be shown tohave their own morphological characteristics.Techniques for identifying the special morphologyof sublanguage terms are readily available from lin-guistics.
In cases where the lexicon is large, the de-signer of a computational system may find it profitableto include word-formation rules in a special processingphase.5.3.2 Syntactic CharacteristicsEarly work on restricted language has shown thatthe syntactic description of a naturally occurring sub-language may differ significantly from that of aunrestricted language.
In the highly constrained styleof weather bulletins, there is little resemblance be-tween the syntactic structure of telegraphic forecastsand that of general language.
The syntactic rules areessentially those of a semantic grammar (Burton1976).
The TAUM-METEO system (Chevalier et al1978) for translating Canadian weather bulletins isbased on a grammar arrived at through a distributionalanalysis of a large corpus of these texts.
In less ster-eotyped sublanguages uch as medical records, theremay be both elliptical sentence forms and their full-sentence paraphrases in the sublanguage.
Thus theNYU system for extracting formatted data from medi-cal records (Sager 1978, 1981) must include in itsparser special rules for elliptical forms as well as moregeneral syntactic rules for the full forms.Most sublanguages of English observe the syntacticpatterns of standard English but may differ markedlyin the frequency of usage of various constructions.For example, many of the question forms, stylisticinversions, and exclamatives of conversational Englishare totally absent from technical iterature (Lehrberger1981).
Grammars for processing technical languagemay therefore delete the corresponding productionrules for analysis in technical domains.
On the otherhand, some sublanguages may use syntactic construc-tions unknown in the general language, in which casethe appropriate productions must be included in thesublanguage grammar.Even when certain grammatical constructions can-not be ruled out of the grammar, they may be of suchhigh or low frequency in the sublanguage that this factcan be used to reorganize the order in which rules aretried or to change the preference weighting assigned tocompeting syntactic analyses.5.3.3 Semant ic  Const ra in tsThe restricted domain of reference of a sublan-guage is mirrored in the way words are used with re-spect to one another.
A distributional analysis ofword co-occurrences in a large corpus of texts (Harris1963; Hirschman, Grishman, and Sager 1975) allows acomputational linguist to group words into equivalenceclasses and to describe the occurring sentences interms of these classes.
Computational systems whichuse the semantic grammar approach (Burton 1976)state the syntax directly in terms of such distributionalclasses, which are relevant for the semantic or func-tional distinctions to which the system s sensitive.Collapsing syntax and semantics in this way is usefulfor small sublanguages (Hendrix et al 1978; Epsteinand Walker 1978), but there is the disadvantage thatthe grammar has no generality and a new one has tobe written for each new sublanguage.
Though oneargument for semantic grammars has been that theyare computationally more efficient, recent experimentsin which a semantic grammar was compared with alinguistically motivated grammar for the same databasedemonstrated that the latter could be just as efficient(cf.
Sagalowicz 1980).In more complex sublanguages it is usually neces-sary to maintain traditional syntactic categories, andhence to couch parsing rules in terms of these categor-ies.
In this case, semantic constraints in the form ofselectional restrictions can be applied either during ordirectly after parsing to eliminate those syntactic ana-lyses that give meanings impossible in the sublanguage(Sager and Gr ishman 1975, Sager 1981, Robinson1,980).Most sublanguage texts also have larger informa-tion structures beyond the word-class co-occurrencesof single sentences.
An analysis of the informationformats of medical records (Hirschman and Sager1981) has been carried out for the purpose of infor-mation retrieval.
Frame-l ike structures may also beemployed to recognize and extract larger informationcomponents (e.g., Bobrow et al 1977, Schank et al1980).A number of techniques are being developed forthe specification and representation of semantic struc-tures that can extend beyond the sentence unit.
One80 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number 2, April- June 1982Richard Kittredge Sublanguagesentails the assignment of proposit ional structures totext passages (Walker and Hobbs 1981).
Domain andprotocol analysis (Davis 1977, Newell and Simon1972, Malhotra 1975) provide techniques for hypoth-esizing facts and inference rules appropriate for se-mantic analysis and reasoning procedures.
Knowledgeacquisition procedures (Davis 1977, Haas and Hendrix1980, Rychener 1980), now under investigation, couldsignificantly aid in the building of semantic and infer-ence components.5.3.4 D iscourse  Cons iderat ionsRecent research has shown that the way in whichsentences are strung together to form coherent textcan vary considerably from one sublanguage to anoth-er.
In addition to differences in discourse-level se-mantic structures (see 5.3.3), separate sublanguagesmay make different use of a language's linguisticmeans of textual cohesion.
In view of the considera-ble attention given to anaphora in the literature ofcomputational linguistics, it is worthwhile to note thatcertain technical sublanguages contain no occurrencesof anaphoric pronouns, while others make use of spe-cial anaphoric devices (Kittredge 1981).
Even when atechnical sublanguage uses pronominal anaphora, itoften appears that the sublanguage ffectively restrictsit to cases where the antecedent noun phrase occurs inthe preceding sentence or even in an earlier clause inthe same sentence.
Needless to say, the strategy em-ployed for establishing co-reference in a sublanguagemust therefore take into account the behavior of eachanaphoric device in that same sublanguage.
In manycases, a far simpler algorithm can be used than wouldbe necessary for unrestricted language.
In any givenlanguage, the semantic coherence and grammaticalcohesion of a text can be signalled by a variety oflinking devices.
From a language's inventory of de-vices, each sublanguage seems to make a rather dis-tinctive and limited selection.
Stock market reportsavoid repetition of the same verb in successive sen-tences, using synonyms instead, whereas technicalmanuals apparently avoid synonymy at the expense oflexical repetition (Kittredge 1981).
The use of tenseor tense variation may also fit a distinctive pattern.All such tendencies, whether probabilistic or absolute,may be exploited during the design of optimized sub-language processing systems.5.4 Factors Defining Suitable Candidate Appl icationsThe sublanguage approach to language processingmay not be appropriate to all varieties of restrictedlanguage or all types of application.
It may only beprofitable where there exists an established group ofusers who help to identify and define the knowledgedomain.
In addition, the domain should be relativelywell-defined and internally consistent.
The most tract-able sublanguages from the computational  point ofview are those that present a simple discourse struc-ture.
Finally, each application should be one in whichthe computer is an appropriate medium of communica-tion or processing (e.g., spoken sublanguages or onesfor which permanent records would not or should notbe kept may not be appropriate).In practical applications where economic considera-tions are decisive, one must also take into account thetime and cost of studying the linguistic properties in asufficiently large and representative sample of thesublanguage and of creating and programming thesublanguage-specif ic dictionary and grammar rules.There is reason to believe that sublanguages that aresemantically and pragmatical ly near-neighbors aresimilar in their grammatical properties, so that a betterunderstanding of language form and function willmake the description of new sublanguages easier andmore predictable.5.5 Matur ing Areas of Research Relevant to theSublanguage ApproachA successful general approach to sublanguage proc-essing in a wide variety of domains will depend onadvances in a number of research areas, some of whichare maturing rapidly.
Empirical work on knowledgestructures (Bobrow et al 1977, Mark 1980, Robinsonet al 1980) and on mechanisms of focus (Grosz 1977,1981) is relevant o a proper treatment of sublanguagespecific features of discourse and semantic structure.Techniques of using precise selectional restrictionsfor sublanguages have been implemented (Burton1976) as have those for extracting formatted informa-tion from fairly stereotyped sublanguages (Sager1978).
A new technique for developing transportablesystems for natural- language interfaces to databases(Hendrix and Lewis 1981) elicits from the user a lan-guage for querying the contents at the same time thatinformation about the domain is being entered.
Thisapproach is being extended to provide a more sophisti-cated system that is not limited to formatted atabasesbut entails translation into a set of well-formed formu-las in a many-sorted first-order logic (Haas and Hen-drix 1980).
Recent work on treating departures fromgrammatical ity (Sondheimer and Weischedel 1980,Hayes and Mouradian 1980, McKeown 1980, Kwasnyand Sondheimer 1981, Miller et al 1981) can be usein handling specialized language that deviates yntacti-cally from the standard language.
Devices for design-ing more " f r iendly"  systems, such as the work ongraceful interaction (Kaplan 1978, Hayes and Reddy1979, Weischedel and Sondheimer 1981) are relevantto the question of relating sublanguage-specific phe-nomena to those of the whole language.American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number 2, April-June 1982 81Richard Kittredge Sublanguages5.6 Promising New Research AreasA number of new or even underdeveloped researchareas will certainly prove important for work on sub-language.
We expect that further research on syntac-tic variation will yield a more unified framework forthe description of sublanguage word and phrase struc-ture.
Work in pragmatics, such as the recent computa-tional modeling of speech acts, will intersect with in-vestigations into sublanguages where social or legaldimensions are important.
As we accumulate xperi-ence in semantic processing over a number of specialtyareas, we will be able to identify more and moresharply the important parameters for assessing thecomputational  tractabil ity of any given sublanguage.This experience will also nourish a distinct area whichhas both theoretical and practical aspects: the prob-lem of relating sublanguages (and their grammars) tothe standard language (and its grammar).
The pre-liminary efforts at building up a taxonomy and typolo-gy of sublanguages are aimed in this direction.There is already an identifiable movement owardscodifying and teaching language for specific purposes.For some applications it is possible to take naturallyoccurring sublanguages and slightly regularize them sothat strong tendencies are promoted to norms for com-municating in the subfield.
Attempts in this directionhave occurred in the stylistic guidelines now used forwriting weather reports and aircraft maintenance man-uals.
A serious scientific approach to this "engi-neering design" of new sublanguages must await amore exact theoretical and practical understanding ofhow language function relates to language form.5.7 Recommendat ionsAt present, only a small number of sublanguageshaw~ been studied in detail.
Thus one urgent need isto broaden the basis of our understanding of theselinguistic subsystems.
The members of the panel feeltlhat this can best be achieved by selecting a few prom-i,dng application areas in which to concentrate sub-stantive research resources.
Such concentrat ion isnecessary for several reasons.
First, most naturallyoccurring sublanguages present real challenges forlinguistic description.
Many months or years of effortmust usually be invested in describing a corpus oftexts and in finding the natural extensions of that cor-pus in collaboration with speakers of the sublanguage.Second, the linguistic peculiarities of the sublanguageoften present new problems for computational treat-ment, particularly if the solutions are to be generaliza-ble to other, related sublanguages.
Third, many fur-ther months of on-site testing are usually necessary toproperly absorb and evaluate the feedback from usersof prototype systems, and to evolve more adequateversions.
The evolution of any significant new systemtherefore implies a substantial collaborative ffort overa period ranging from several months to several years.l\[n parallel with a program of applied research alongthe lines suggested above, we recommend that certainkinds of basic research be supported which can bothfeed and be nourished by the applied research.
Basicresearch in the areas identified under Sections 5.5 and5.6 above should be encouraged in such a way thatresearchers, however theoretically oriented, arebrought periodically into contact with the practicalaspects of the proposed real-world applications.
Suchan interplay between the practit ioners of basic andapplied research has proved to be an essential ingredi-ent of past advances in sublanguage processing.82 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number 2.
April-June 1982Carroll Johnson and Joan Bachenko Proceedings of the Workshop6.
AcknowledgementsThis workshop is the first in a series organized bythe Navy Center  for Appl ied  Research  in Art i f ic ia lIntel l igence.
The concept  for this workshop emergedfrom numerous discussions with Marv in Denicof f  andJoel  Trirnble of ONR, Paul Chapin and Henry  Ham-burger of NSF, Robert  Enge lmore  and Robert  Kahn ofDARPA, Stanley Wilson and John Davis of NRL, andWil l iam Price of AFOSR.The workshop itself was made possible onlythrough the superb cooperat ion of the ACL.
NormSondheimer,  former ACL president,  and Don Walker,ACL Secretary -Treasurer ,  used their organizat iona ltalents to incorporate the workshop into the 1981 ACLConference.
Jerry Kaplan, local chairman for the ACLmeeting, graciously accepted the added responsibi l i tyof providing local arrangements  for the workshop.We grateful ly  acknowledge  the very competentsecretarial  assistance by Janet  L. Stroup of NRL andthe careful  compi lat ion of the workshop proceedingsby Veronica Bates of NRL.
F inancial  support for theworkshop was prov ided by the Of f ice of Naval  Re-search.ReferencesArtificial Intelligence Corporation 1981 Intellect Query SystemUser's Guide.
Release 101.
Artificial Intelligence Corp., Walt-ham, MA.Bicrmann, A. and Ballard, B.
1980 Toward Natural LanguageComputation, AJCL 6 No.
2, 71-86.Bobrow, R. 1978 The RUS System.
BBN report 3878.
Bolt,Beranek, and Newman, Inc., Cambridge, MA.Bobrow, D., Kaplan, R., Kay, M., Norman, D., Thompson, H., andWinograd, T. 1977 GUS, A Frame-Driven Dialogue System.Artificial Intelligence 8 155-173.Brown, J., Burton, R., and Bell, S. 1974 SOPHIE: A SophisticatedInstructional Environment for Teaching Electronic Troubleshooting.BBN Report 2790 (March).Burton, R. 1976 Semantic Grammar: An Engineering Technique forConstructing Natural Language Understanding Systems.
BBNReport 3453, Bolt, Beranek, and Newman, Inc. Cambridge, MA(December).Carbonell, J. and Hayes, P. 1981 Dynamic Strategy Section inFlexible Parsing.
Nineteenth Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics.
Stanford, CA (June).Chevalier, L., Dansereau, J., and Poulin, G. 1978 TAUM-METEO:Description du Syst~me.
Universite de Montreal, Canada.Codd, E. 1974 Seven Steps to Rendezvous with the Casual User.In Klimbie, J. and Koffeman, K., Eds., Data Base Management.North-Holland, Amsterdam: 179-200.Codd, E. 1978 How About Recently?
(English Dialogue withRelational Databases Using RENDEZVOUS Version 1).
InShneiderman, B., Ed., Databases: Improving Usability andResponsiveness.
Academic Press, New York: 3-28.Davis, R. 1977 Interactive Transfer of Expertise: Acquisition ofNew Inference Rules.
In Proceedings of the Fifth InternationalConference on Artificial Intelligence.
Cambridge, MA: 321-328.Epstein, M. and Walker, D. 1978 Natural Language Access to aMelanoma Data Base.
In Proceedings of the Second AnnualSymposium on Computer Application in Medical Care.
IEEE, NewYork: 320-325.Grishman, R, and Hirschman, L. 1978 Question Answering fromNatural Language Data Bases.
Artificial Intelligence 25-43.Grosz, B.
1981 Focusing and Description in Natural LanguageDialogues.
In Joshi, A., Sag, I., and Webber, B., Eds., Elementsof Discourse Understanding: Proceedings of a Workshop on Compu-tational Aspects of Linguistic Structure and Discourse Setting.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge: 84-105.Grosz, B.
1977 The Representation a d Use of Focus in a Systemfor Understanding Dialogs.
Proceedings of the Fifth InternationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
Cambridge, MA(August 22-25): 67-76.Haas, N. and Hendrix, G. 1980 An Approach to Acquiring andApplying Knowledge.
In Proceedings of the First Annual Nation-al Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
Stanford University:235-239.Hendrix, G. and Lewis, W. 1981 Transportable Natural-LanguageInterfaces to Databases.
In Proceedings of the Nineteenth Annu-al Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Stan-ford, CA (June).Hendrix, G., Sacerdoti, E., Sagalowicz, D. and Slocum, J.
1978Developing a Natural Language Interface to Complex Data.ACM Transactions on Database Systems 3 No.
2 (June) 105-147.Harris, Z.
1963 Discourse Analysis Reprints.
The Hague, Mouton.Hayes, P. and Mouradian, G. 1980 Flexible Parsing.
In Proceed-ings of of the lSth Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.
University of Pennsylvania: 97-103.Hayes, P. and Reddy, R. 1979 Graceful Interaction in Man-Machine Communication.
Sixth International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence.
Stanford University, 372-374.Hirschman, L., Grishman, R., and Sager, N. 1975 Grammatically-Based Automatic Word Class Formation.
Information Process-ing and Management 11.Hirschman, L. and Sager, N. 1981 Automatic Informatting of aMedical Sublanguage.
In Kittredge and Lehrberger.Joshi, A., Mays, E., Lanka, S., and Webber, B, 1981 NaturalLanguage Interaction with Dynamic Knowledge Bases: Monitorsas Responses.
In Proceedings of the IJCAI 1981.
Vancouver,Vancouver (August).Kameny, I. et al 1978 An End User Friendly Interface for Data-bases.
Proceedings VLDB.
Berlin.Kaplan, S.J.
1979 Cooperative Responses from a Portable LanguageData Base Query System.
Ph.D. Dissertation, University of Penn-sylvania.
(Available as Stanford Heuristic Programming ProjectReport HPP-79- 19, Computer Science Department, StanfordUniversity, Stanford, CA, 94305 (July).
)Kaplan, S.J.
1978 Indirect Responses to Loaded Questions.
Theo-retical Issues in Natural Language Processing-2.
University ofIllinois at Urbana-Champaign (July).Kaplan, S.J.
and Davidson, J.
1981 Interpreting Natural LanguageDatabase Updates.
In Proceedings of the Nineteenth AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Stan-ford, CA, June.Kaner, R. and Montgomery, C. 1972 On-Line Bugging: Hope forTerminal Cases of Semantic Deviance.
Invited Paper at theGordon Research Conference on the Frontiers of Science.
NewLondon, NH, July.Kay, M. 1979 Functional Grammar.
In Proceedings of the FifthAnnual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society.Kittredge, R. 1981 Variation and Homogeneity of Sublanguages.In Kittredge and Lehrberger.Kittredge, R. and Lehrberger, J. Eds.
1981 Sublanguage: Studiesof Language in Restricted Semantic Domains.
deGruyter, Berlin.Kwasny, S. and Sondheimer, N. 1981 Ungrammaticality andExtragrammaticality in Natural Language Understanding Sys-tems.
In Proceedings of the Seventeenth Annual Meeting of theACL.
La Julia, CA (August).American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number 2, April-June 1982 83Carroll Johnson and Joan Bachenko Proceedings of the WorkshopLandsbergen, S. and Scha, R. 1978 Formal Languages for Seman-tic Representation.
In Petofi, J., Ed., Aspects of  Automated TextProcessing.
Buske, Hamburg.Lehrberger, J.
1981 Automatic Translation and the Concept ofSublanguage.
In Kittredge and Lehrberger.Mckeown, K. 1980 Generating Relevant Explanations: NaturalLanguage Responses to Questions About Database Structure.In Proceedings of  First Meeting of AAAI.
Stanford, CA(August).Malhotra, A.
1975 Design Criteria for a Knowledge-Based EnglishLanguage System for Management: An Experimental Analysis.MAC TR 146.
Cambridge, MA: Project MAC.
MassachusettsInstitute of Technology, February.Mark, W. 1980 Rule-Based Inference in Large Knowledge Bases.In Proceedings of the First Annual National Conference on Artifi-cial Intelligence.
Stanford, CA.Mays, E. 1980 Failures in Natural Language Systems: Applica-tions to Database Query Systems.
In Proceedings of the FirstMeeting of AAAI.
Stanford, CA, August.Miller, L., Heidorn, G., and Jensen, K. 1981 Text-critiquing withthe EPISTLE System: An Author's Aid to Better Syntax.
InAFIPS Conference Proceedings.
AFIPS Press, Montvale, NJ:649-655.Moore, R.C.
1981 Problems in Logical Form.
In Proceedings ofthe Nineteenth Annual Meeting of the ACL (June).Newell, A. and Simon, H. 1972 Human Problem Solving.
Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.Novak, G.S., Jr. 1981 Physics Problem Solving: ISAAC-II.
InProceedings of the Seventh International Joint Conference on Arti-ficial Intelligence.
IJCAI-81, Vol.
2.
University of British Co-lumbia, Vancouver, B.C.
(August).Petrick, S. 1975 Design of the Underlying Structure for a DataBase Retrieval System.
In Grishman, R., Ed., Directions inArtificial Intelligence: Natural Language Processing.
CourantComputer Science Report 7, Courant Institute of MathematicalSciences, York University, New York, New NY, 60-93.Robinson, A., Appelt, D., Grosz, G., Hendrix, G., and Robinson, J.1980 Interpreting Natural Language Utterances in Dialogabout Tasks.
Communications of the ACM in press.
SRI Tech-nical Note 210.
Artificial Intelligence Center, SRI Internation-al, Menlo Park, CA.Robinson, J.
1982 DIAGRAM: A Grammar for Dialogues.
Com-munications of the A CM.Rychener, M. 1980 Approaches to Knowledge Acquisition: Thelnstructable Production System Project.
In Proceedings of theFirst Annual Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
Stanford, CA:228-230.Sagalowicz, D., Ed.
1980 Mechanical Intelligence: Research andApplications.
Final Technical Report.
Artificial IntelligenceCenter, SRI International.
Menlo Park, CA.
',~agcr, N. 1981 Natural Language Information Processing: A Com-puter Grammar of English and Its Applications.
Addison-Wesley,Reading, MA.
'Sager, N. 1978 Natural Language Information Formatting: TheAutomatic Conversion of Texts to a Structure Data Base.
InYovits, M. and Rubinoff, M., Eds., Advances in Computers.Academic Press, New York: 89-162.Sager, N. and Grishman, R. 1975 The Restriction Language forComputer Grammars.
Communications of the ACM 18 390-400.Schank, R., Lebowitz, M. and Birnbaum, L. 1980 An IntegratedUnderstander.
American Journal of  Computational Linguistics 613-30.Silva, G.M.T., Dwiggins, D.L., Busby, S.G., and Kuhns, J.L.
1979A Knowledge-Based Automated Message Understanding Methodolo-gy for an Advanced Indications System.
OSI Report R79-006,Operating Systems, Inc. (February).Simmons, R. F. and Chester, D. Relating Sentences and SemanticNetworks with Clausal Logic.
Communications of the ACM, toappear.Sondheimer, N. and Weischedel, R. 1980 A Rule-Based Approachto 111- Formed Input.
In Proceedings of  the Eighth InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics: 46-53.Thompson, F. and Thompson, B.
1975 Practical Natural LanguageProcessing: The REL System as Prototype.
In Rubinoff, M.and Yovits, M.C., Eds., Advances in Computers, Volume 13.Academic Press, New York.Walker, D. and Hobbs, J.
1981 Natural Language Access toMedical Text.
In Proceedings of the Fifth Annual Symposium onComputer Applications in Medical Care.
IEEE, New York.Waltz, D.L.
1978 An English Language Question AnsweringSystem for a Large Relational Data Base.
Communications ofthe ACM 21 526-539.Weischedel, R. and Black, J.
1979 Responding to Potentially Un-parsable Sentences.
Tech Rep. 79/3.
Department of Computerand Information Sciences, Universiy of Delaware, Newark, DE.Weischedel, R. and Sondheimer, N. 1981 A Framework for Proc-essing Ill-Formed Input.
Technical Report.
Department of Com-puter and Information Sciences, University of Delaware, New-ark, DE.Wilensky, R. 1978 Understanding Goal-Based Stories.
Yale Uni-versity Research Report No.
140.84 American Journal of Computational Linguistics, Volume 8, Number 2, April-June 1982
