English and the Class of Context-Free Languages IPaul M. PostalIBM Thomas J. Watson Research CenterPost Office Box 218Yorktown Heights, NY 10598D.
Terence LangendoenBrooklyn College and the Graduate CenterCity University of New York33 West 42 StreetNew York, NY 100360.
BackgroundLet L range over all natural anguages (NLs).
For any L,one can consider two collections of strings of symbols,one consisting of all strings over the terminal vocabularyof L, call it W*(L), the other consisting of that alwaysvery proper subcollection of W*(L) consisting of all andonly those members of W*(L) that are well-formed, thatis, that correspond to sentences of L. Call the lattercollection WF(L).During the early development of generative grammar,a number of attempts were made to show, for variouschoices of L, that WF(L) was not a context-free (CF)string collection.
These attempts all had, naturally, acommon logical structure.
First, it was claimed that therewas some mathematical property P which, if possessed bysome collection of strings, C, rendered C non-CF.Second, it was claimed that WF(C) had P, so the conclu-sion followed.
Two sorts of criticisms can be, and have?
been, directed at such attempted emonstrations.
Oneattacks the mathematical foundations and argues, forparticular choices of P, that a collection manifesting P isnot necessarily not CF.
The other type of criticismadmits that if a collection manifests a particular propertyP, it is thereby not CF, but contends that the WF(L)sclaimed to manifest P in fact don't.A survey of the various attempts, from roughly 1960to 1982, to prove for various L that WF(L) is not CF isprovided in Pullum and Gazdar (1982).
These authorsconclude, justifiably we believe, that for one or the otherof the reasons mentioned above, none of these attempts,including those by the present authors, stand up.
Despitewidespread belief to the contrary, as of 1982 there hadbeen no demonstration that there is some NL L for whichWF(L)  is not CF.
2However, Langendoen and Postal (1984) haveobtained a result infinitely stronger than the claim thatfor some L, WF(L) is not CF.
This work shows that forany L, WF(L) is a proper class, hence not a set, much lessa recursively enumerable set.
There is thus no questionof WF(L) being CF.
Moreover, WF(L) can then have noconstructive characterization (generative grammar),although there is no reason to doubt that it can be givena nonconstructive characterization.
But the demon-stration of Langendoen and Postal (1984) is based onprinciples that determine WF(L) includes nonfinite stringscorresponding to nonfinite (transfinite) sentences.
It isthe existence of such sentences that places complete NLsbeyond generative (constructive) characterization.Nevertheless, as noted in Langendoen and Postal (1984:103), this novel result still leaves entirely open the ques-tion of whether that subpart of WF(L) consisting of alland only the well-formed finite strings in W*(L) is CF.Let F(inite)WF(L) be that subcollection of WF(L)consisting of all and only the finite strings correspondingto the finite sentences of L. What follows shows thatthere are dialects of English, E1 and E2, such that:l We thank J. Higginbotham for helpful comments on an earlier versionof this paper.2 Recently, Higginbotham (1984) presents another argument hatEnglish is not CF.
The formal part of the demonstration seems impec-cable, but the factual premises are questionable; see Pullum (p. 182).Copyright1985 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided thatthe copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
To copyotherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/84/030177-05503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1984 177Paul M. Postal and D. Terence Langendoen1.
Neither FWF(E1) nor FWF(E2) is CF.The demonstration of (1) makes use of the followingcorollary of a theorem of Arbib (1969) about languageintersections:2.
The Intersection TheoremLet L be a stringset ar~l let R be a regular stringset.If L n R is not a CF stringset, then neither is L.One can then show that, for example, FWF(E1) andFWF(E2) are not CF by finding some regular set R suchthat R n FWF(EI) and R n FWF(E2) are not CF (Daly1974).1.
The Sluicing ConstructionThe present demonstration that FWF(E), E ranging overvarious forms of English, is not CF is based on the sluic-ing construction, first discussed by Ross (1969) and morerecently by van Riemsdijk (1978) and Levin (1982).Standard examples of this construction i clude:3a.
He stole something but it's not known what.b.
Someone stole the jewels and I can tell you who.c.
The police found him in some bar but the paperdidn't say which one.The sluicing construction has the following properties:4a.
It consists of n (n > 2) clauses, often, but notnecessarily coordinate clauses joined by butb.
Each of the second to nth clauses counting from theleft contains a wh-phrase, WH, which correspondsto a potential indefinite phrase found in the firstclause.c.
WH has an interpretation equivalent o an entirewh-clause, WH+Z, and the 'missing parts' areunderstood as identical to the first clause minus thepotential indefinite phrase.The reason for the strange usage 'potential indefinitephrase' in (4b) is the existence of sluicing cases like (5b)and (6b) alongside (5a) and (6a):5a.
Martha was abducted by someone but we don'tknow by who(m).b.
Martha was abducted but we don't know bywho(m).6a.
The doctors creamed for some reason but we don'tknow why.b.
The doctors creamed but we don't know why.Depending on frameworks, one might analyze cases like(5b) and (6b) as involving invisible versions of indefinitephrases like those in the corresponding (5a) and (6a).But this matter need not concern us.
We can concentrateon cases where alternatives like (5b) and (6b) are notpossible, as in (7):7a.
Max visited someone but we don't know who.b.
*Max discussed Tom but we don't know who.c.
*Max discussed but we don't know who.English and the Class of Context-Free LanguagesThat is, we pick cases where WH can only be anaphori-cally connected to a visible element in the first clause.From this point on, references to the sluicingconstruction only denote cases of this restricted sort.The nature of the formal argument o be presented issuch that this limitation in no way impugns the validity ofthe present result, since one can still construct a model ofthe intersection situation described at the end of theprevious ection.In (3a), WH is what, the indefinite phrase correspond-ing to it is something and WH is understood as equivalentto the wh-clause what he stole, since he stole is the wholefirst clause minus the indefinite phrase.
A similar analysisholds for (3b).In (3), as in most of the examples in the literaturepreviously illustrating the sluicing construction, the indef-inite phrase in the first clause is an indefinite pronoun,and WH is a wh-pronoun.
However, both phrases canconsist of multi-word sequences:8a.
Sarah considered some proposals but it's unknownhow many.b.
If any books are still left on the sale table, find outwhich ones.c.
The warehouse will ship us several typewriters butwe have no idea how many machines.d.
A few physicians till use this drug and Sam can tellyou how many doctors.e.
Joe discussed certain formulas but which formulasis uncertain.Let us from this point on, for simplicity, limit attention tosluicing constructions consisting of only two clauses.Then it is possible to represent all the relevant casesschematically as follows:9.
V QI XI W \[Y Q2 X2 Z\], where V, W, Y and Z arestrings; QI is an indefinite quantifier or pronoun; Xlis the rest of the nominal quantified by Q1; Q2 is awh-quantifier or pronoun anaphorically related toQ1; and X2 is the rest of the nominal quantified byQ2.
Moreover, Q2 X2 (= WH) is understood as awh-clause that contains material from V or W.Table 1 presents the values of Q1, X1, Q2 and x2 in theexamples in (8a-e).
Henceforth, we further restrict theclass of sluicing constructions under consideration, limit-ing attention only to examples like (8c-e), in which X1and X2 are neither empty nor pronouns.In (8c-e), the main stress on the wh-phrase can fall oneither Q2 or on X2.
If it falls on X2, then the wh-phrasecan not be anaphorieally related to the correspondingindefinite phrase in the first clause.
While we cannot,and need not, give a theoretical account of"anaphorically related", informally it means that thepotential reference of the wh-phrase is determined bythat of its antecedent.
Hence the lack of anaphoricconnection in cases of stressed X2 means that in partic-ular, in (8c), machines does not denote the same thingsthat typewriters does in that sentence; in (8d), physicians178 Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1984Paul M. Postal and D. Terence Langendoen English and the Class of Context-Free LanguagesTable 1.EXAMPLE Q1 X1 Q2 X2(8a) some proposals how many 4'(8b) any books which ones(8c) several typewriters how many machines(8d) a few physicians how many doctors(8e) certain formulas which formulasdoes not denote the same people that doctors does (thelatter perhaps referring to nonmedical doctors); and in(8e) the two occurrences of formulas then denote differ-ent things (say, mathematical formulas in the firstinstance and baby milk formulas in the second).
On theother hand, if phrasal stress falls on Q2, then thewh-phrase is anaphorically related to the correspondingindefinite phrase in the first clause.
In (8c), machines ithen taken to denote the same things that typewritersdoes; in (8d), physicians i then taken to denote the samepeople that doctors does and in (8e) the two occurrencesof formulas denote the same objects, whether mathemat-ical or nutritional.Henceforth, we-limit attention only to examples inwhich phrasal stress falls on Q2 (indicated by small caps).These are therefore structures where the wh-phrase in thesecond clause is anaphorically related to the correspond-ing indefinite phrase in the first clause.It turns out that variants of English differ with respectto the class of wh-phrases that can be usedanaphorically.
3 So, for many speakers, but not all, (8c-e)are fully acceptable with phrasal stress on Q2.
Forothers, only (8e) is fully acceptable; in fact, (8c,d) arejudged to be ungrammatical.
For the latter dialect,henceforth referred to as El, the subpart of the sluicingconstruction on which we have focused is subject to theconstraint informally stated as in (10), henceforthreferred to as the strong matching condition (SMC).
410.
If WH is the anaphoric wh-phrase in the secondclause, then, if X2 is neither null nor a pronoun, thesequence of linguistic elements up to and includingthe head noun of X2 must be identical to the materialup to and including the head noun of X1.According to SMC, only the posthead modifiers of X1and X2 can differ in El, as in:1 1.
Joe discussed several attempts to grow corn on Marsbut WHICH attempts i unknown.If prehead modifiers differ, then the resulting structure isungrammatical in El:12.
El*Joe discussed lots of curious proposals buteveryone has forgotten WHICH proposals.Now consider another dialect, call it E2, in which(8c-e) are fully grammatical when phrasal stress falls onQ2.
For E2 speakers, the relation between X1 and X2 isgoverned by condition (13), which we refer to as theweak matching condition (WMC).13.
X2 is a possible anaphor of X1.According to WMC, X2 can either be a complete repe-tition of Xt, as in (8e); a synonym of X1, as in (8d); or aterm whose denotation includes that of X1, as in (8c),(11) and (12), the last two examples being well-formedin E2.
However, if X2 is not a possible anaphor of X1and phrasal stress falls on Q2, then the resulting structureis ungrammatical even in E2.
Since the following exam-ples are ungrammatical in both E1 and E2, they aremarked with double asterisks.14a.
**The warehouse will ship several machines to ouroffice but we have no idea how MANY typewriters.b.
**A few physicians till use this drug and Sam cantell you how MANY nurses.c.
**Joe discussed certain formulas but WHICHequations i uncertain.In (14a), typewriters cannot be used as an anaphor formachines, presumably because the reference of theformer fails to subsume that of the latter.
This judge-ment is rendered by E2 speakers even for contexts inwhich the words typewriters and machines are otherwiseused interchangeably, such as an office with limited wordprocessing equipment.
This shows that one is dealinghere with a grammatical restriction, not a pragmaticproperty that varies with context.
Similarly, in (14b),nurses cannot be used as an anaphor for physicians, sincesome physicians are not nurses and some nurses are notphysicians; again this is true even in a context in whichall the nurses under discussion happen to be physiciansand vice versa.
Finally, equations cannot be used as ananaphor for formulas in (14c), since again an equation isonly a certain kind of formula (statements of inequalityare also formulas).
One who judges that (14c) is in factgrammatical might well do so under the mistaken beliefthat all mathematical formulas are equations.
Alterna-tively, one could assume that such a judge has a differentdialect of English, with different anaphoric onditions.Now consider examples of the sluicing construction iwhich a compoun~i noun occurs as X1.
If X2 exactlymatches X1, then the result is grammatical in both E1 andE2.
If only the head of the compound occurs as X2, thenthe results are always ungrammatical in El, and either3We have not investigated whether this correlates with more generaldifferences in anaphoric usages for these distinct forms of the language.Moreover, this is not relevant o the present demonstration.4El is the dialect of the first author.Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1984 179Paul M. Postal and D. Terence Langendoen English and the Class of Context-Free Languagesgrammatical or ungrammatical in E2, depending on therelation between X1 and X2.
As before, double asterisksmark examples that are ungrammatical in both E1 andE2.15a.
Joe discussed some candy store but it's not knownWHICH candy store.b.
El*Joe discussed some candy store but it's notknown WHICH store.c.
**Joe discussed some fire escape but it's not knownWHICH escape.d.
**Joe discussed some bourbon hater but it's notknown WHICH hater.e.
**Joe discussed some bourbon lover but it's notknown WHICH lover.The whole compound can be used as an anaphor foritself in both E1 and E2, as in (15a).
But store cannot beused as an anaphor for candy store in (15b) in El, sinceSMC is not satisfied.
On the other hand, store can beused as an anaphor for candy store in (15b) in E2,presumably since a candy store is a certain kind of store;that is, candy store is an endocentric compound.
Howev-er, escape cannot be used as an anaphor for fire escape,even in E2, since a fire escape, which is a certain kind ofphysical object, is not an escape, which is a certain kindof event; that is, fire escape is an exocentric ompound.Finally, hater and lover cannot be used as anaphors forbourbon hater or bourbon lover in (15d,e), since the agen-tive noun hater is used only in compounds and lover; byitself has a limited (sexual) meaning which makes itunsuitable as an anaphor for compounds such as bourbonloverAn important consequence for the present discussionis that if one limits the vocabulary over which sluicingconstructions are formed in the right way, the conditionsof linkage in E1 and E2, though intensionally distinct,become extensionally identical.
That is, for fixed cases,SMC and WMC have the same consequences.
For anysuch situation, one can thus equate them and refer simplyto the matching condition (MC).It is possible to embed English compounds withincompounds; in particular, there are well-formedcompounds uch as bourbon hater lover 'one who lovesbourbon haters', bourbon lover hater 'one who hatesbourbon lovers', bourbon hater lover hater 'one who hatesthose who love bourbon haters', etc.
Now, if any suchcompound occurs as X1 in a sluicing construction, thenfor speakers of both E1 and E2 the only possible anaphordrawn exclusively from the vocabulary used to construct hecompound that can occur as X2 is the whole compounditself.16a.
Joe discussed some bourbon hater lover but it's notknown WHICH bourbon hater lover.b.
**Joe discussed some bourbon hater lover but it'snot known WHICH hater lover.c.
**Joe discussed some bourbon hater lover but it'snot known WHICH lover.It follows that if attention is limited to instances of thesluicing construction like (16), in which the only possibleanaphonc wh-expressions are whole compounds, thenSMC and WMC are equivalent, permitting one to speaksimply of MC with no loss of accuracy.
Given this fact,we are now in a position to demonstrate simultaneouslythat neither FWF(E1) nor FWF(E2) is CF.2.
The ProofWe first define the following notion:17.
A copying language is any language of the form:L {cxdxe \] x E (a,b)* and a,b,c,d,e are fixed strings}Given that English contains a sluicing construction char-acterized as in section 1, one can prove that FWF(E), Eranging over E1 and E2, is not CF by means of the Inter-section Theorem of (2) and the fact that copyinglanguages are not CF (Langendoen 1977).
To prove thatFWF(E) is not CF, one must find a regular language Rwhose intersection I with FWF(E) is not CF.
Such an R isgiven in (18):18.
R = {Joe discussed some bourbon x but WHICHbourbon y is unknown t x,y E (hater, lover)*}Since R is a concatenation f regular languages, it is itselfregular.Now consider the intersection of R with FWF(E).
Thematching condition on sluicing constructions guaranteesthat this intersection is the copying language I in (19):19.
I = {Joe discussed some bourbon x but WHICHbourbon x is unknown \] x,y ~ (hater, lover)*}Since I is not CF, by the Intersection Theorem, neither isFWF(E).As has been stressed, limitations on the vocabularyrender the distinct sluicing conditions of E1 and E2equivalent over certain subcollections of sluicing cases.It follows that the demonstration just presented holds notonly for E1 and E2 but more generally for any variant ofEnglish whose matching condition for sluicing, even ifdifferent from that of both E1 and E2 for the fullcollection of English sentences, has the same extensionfor the language R of (18).
We see no current reason todoubt that this will include every variant of English.3.
ConclusionGazdar (1983: 86), summarizing inter alia the conclu-sions of Pullum and Gazdar (1982), makes the followingclaims:20a.
"There is no reason, at the present ime, to thinkthat NLs are not CFLs."b.
"There are good reasons for thinking that thenotations we need to capture significant syntacticgeneralisations will characterise CF-PSGs, or someminor generalisations of them, such as IndexedGrammars.
"180 Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1984Paul M. Postal and D. Terence Langendoen English and the Class of Context-Free LanguagesBut as Langendoen and Postal (1984) shows, NLs areproper classes not sets, so the question of WF(L)s aswholes being CF no longer arises.
Restricting attentionto FWF(L)s, the result of Section 2 shows that for anydialect E of English for which MC holds, FWF(E) is notCF.Since, however, neither FWF(E) nor any other FWF(L)has been shown to lie outside the domain of indexedlanguages (ILs) in the sense of Aho (1968), it wouldappear that one can conclude that while the collection ofall sentences in an NL K is a proper class, FWF(K) is anIL.
Consequently, a correct account of NL grammarsmust be such that a proper grammar for K specifies K asan appropriate proper class 5 and entails that FWF(K) isan IL.
A grammatical theory with just these propertiesremains to be constructed.5By 'appropriate', we mean one which satisfies inter alia the axiomcalled Closure Under Coordinate Compounding of Sentences inLangendoen and Postal (1984: 53).
This is necessary for the proof thatNLs are proper classes.ReferencesAho, A.V.
1968 Indexed Grammars-An Extension of Context-FreeGrammars, Journal of the Association for Computing Machinery 15:647-671.Arbib, M. 1969 Theories of Abstract Automata.
Prentice-Hall, Engle-wood Cliffs, New Jersey.Daly, R.T. 1974 Applications of the Mathematical Theory of Linguistics.Mouton and Company, The Hague.Gazdar, G. 1983 NLs, CFLs and CF-PSGs.
In: Sparck Jones, K. andWilks, Y., Eds., Automatic Natural Language Parsing.
Ellis HorwoodLtd., West Sussex, England.Higginbotham, J.
1984 English is Not a Context-Free Language.Linguistic Inquiry 15:119-126.Langendoen, D.T.
1977 On the Inadequacy of Type-2 and Type-3Grammars for'Human Languages.
In: Hopper, P.J., Ed., Studies inDescriptive and Historical Lingistics.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam,Holland.Langendoen, D.T.
and Postal, P.M. 1984 The Vastness of NaturalLanguages.
Basil Blackwell, Oxford, England.Levin, L. 1982 Sluicing: A Lexical Interpretation Procedure.
In: Bres-nan, J., Ed., The Mental Representation f Grammatical Relations.The M1T Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Pullum, G.K. and Gazdar, G. 1982 Natural Languages and Context-Free Languages: Linguistics and Philosophy 4:471-504.Ross, J. R. 1969 Guess Who.
In: Binnick, R. et al, Eds., Papers fromthe Fifth Regional Meeting Chicago Linguistic Society.
University ofChicago, Chicago, Illinois.van Riemsdyk, H. 1978 ,4 Case Study in Syntactic Markedness: TheBinding Nature of Prepositional Phrases.
Foris Publications,Dordrecht, Holland.Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1984 181
