The Pragmatics of Referring andthe IViodality of Communication 1Phil ip R. CohenLaboratory for Artificial Intelligence ResearchFairchild Camera and Instrument CorporationPalo Alto, CAThis paper presents empirical results comparing spoken and keyboard communication.
It isshown that speakers attempt o achieve more detailed goals in giving instructions than do usersof keyboards.
One specific kind of f ine-grained communicative act, a request hat the heareridentify the referent of a noun phrase, is shown to dominate spoken instruction-givingdiscourse, but is nearly absent from keyboard discourse.
Most important, these requests areonly achieved "indirectly".
- through utterances whose surface forms do not explicitly conveythe speakers' intent.
A plan-based theory of communication is shown to uncover the speakers'intentions underlying many cases of indirect identification requests found in the corpus, once anaction for referent identification has been posited.
In so doing, the theory demonstrates howintent (or plan) recognition can be applied in reasoning about the use of a description.
As aconsequence of this approach, it is shown that the conditions on the planning of successfulidentification requests account for Searle's conditions on the act of referring.
It is concludedthat intent recognition will need to be a central focus for pragmatics/discourse components offuture speech understanding systems, and that computational linguistics needs to developformalisms for reasoning about speakers' use of descriptions.1 IntroductionAs natural language interaction with computers becomesmore widespread, systems' abilities to engage users indiscourse will become increasingly important.
Thesecapabil it ies will be especially in demand when users canspeak naturally to their machines.
Although it is widelysuspected that spoken language is different from writtenlanguage, the question of precisely what the differencesare has only recently become a topic of computat ionallinguistic research.
Previous investigations have concen-trated on syntactic differences between spoken and writ-ten language (Hindle 1983, Kroch and Hindle 1982,Thompson 1980), with the goal of adapting parsing tech-niques to handle the syntax of spoken language.
Howev-er, even if this goal were achieved, a system needs to beprepared to handle any unique propert ies of the discoursestructure of spoken interaction if it is to be successful inconducting a dialogue.Of course, there has been much work on discourseprocessing within computat ional  linguistics (e.g., Grosz1977, Sidner 1979, Webber  1978), and any futuresystems will undoubtedly incorporate previously success-ful techniques.
However,  one suspects that the coverageThis research was supported primarily by the National Institute ofEducation under contract US-NIE-C-400-76-0116 to the Center forthe Study of Reading of the University of lllinois and Bolt Beranek andNewman Inc., and in part by the Oregon State University.
The paperwas written at the Fairchild Camera and Instrument Corporation, andrevised at SRI International.
The revisions of this paper have beenmade possible by a gift from the System Development Foundation toSRI as part of a coordinated research effort with the Center for theStudy of Language and Information, Stanford University.
Author'scurrent address: Artificial Intelligence Center, SRI International, MenloPark, CA 94035.Copyright 1984 by the Association for Computational Linguistics, Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided thatthe copies are not made for direct commercial dvantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
To copyotherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/84/020097-50503.00Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 97Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationof discourse processing algorithms may depend on thecorpora from which they were developed, and many ofthose reflect keyboard-mediated dialogue.
Thus, todetermine whether and how current techniques need tobe adapted to the way people speak, research is neededto compare the discourse structure of spoken andkeyboard interaction.This paper presents an empirical study and theoreticalanalysis of utterance form and function as determined bythe communication modality.
The two initial objectivesare:1.
To develop an empirical methodology for analyzingdiscourse pragmatics.2.
To use that methodology to identify both the goalsthat speakers attempt to achieve in spoken andkeyboard modalities, and the discourse and sentencestructures they use in achieving those goals.These objectives are investigated in a study of instruc-tion-giving discourse, a communication task that inti-mately ties utterance function to a nonlinguistic taskbeing accomplished by the conversants.
In addition todepending on the communication task, the goals peopleachieve with language are a function, in part, of thecommunication situation - i.e., of how the speaker(s.),hearer(s), object(s) under discussion, and discourse itselfare situated in the world.
For example, the utterance"On the table is a little yellow piece of rubber," would beinterpreted quite differently in a narrative than in a set ofinstructions for assembling an object.
The communi-cation situation helps to determine the pragmatics ofreference - what speakers intend hearers to do with refer-ring expressions.
Thus, a third goal of this paper, asubsidiary to objective 2 is to consider3.
How the speakers' goals for the interpretation ofreferring expressions are expressed and achieved indifferent modalities.Results indicate that speakers attempt o achieve moredetailed referential goals in giving instructions than dousers of keyboards.
That is, speakers explicitly requesthearers to identify the referents of noun phrases (NPs),but users of keyboards do not.
Instead, the referentialgoals achieved by these requests are subsumed by otherrequested actions.
Most importantly, these identificationrequests are only achieved "indirectly" - through utter-ances whose surface forms do not explicitly convey thespeakers' intent.Current theories propose that the speaker's intentionsunderlying the use of indirect speech acts can be recog-nized as a by-product of a more general, independentlymotivated process of inferring a speaker's plans (Bruce1983, Cohen and Perrault 1979, Cohen and Levesque1980, Perrault and Allen 1980, Schmidt 1975, Sidner andIsrael 1981).
Essentially, illocutionary acts, whichcommunicate the speaker's intentions, are regarded assteps in a speaker's plan, just as physical acts are.Furthermore, just as observing an agent's behavior maylead one to infer what the agent is trying to do, so toocan the observation/understanding of a speaker's utter-ance lead an observer to infer the speaker's intentions.This approach has led to formal and computationalmodels of discourse processing (Allen 1979; Allen andPerrault 1980; Brachman et al 1979; Cohen andLevesque, in preparation; Sidner et al 1981).
Althoughthese provide a more comprehensive account of indirectspeech act interpretation than previous linguistic or philo-sophical approaches, they have not been tested against acorpus other than the ones that supported their creation(e.g., Horrigan 1977).
Therefore, as an adequacy test,the fourth objective for this paper is:4.
To evaluate how well a plan-based theory ofcommunication can uncover the intentions underly-ing the use of many surface forms in the transcripts.The theory is shown to account for approximately70% of the indirect requests for referent identificationfound in the transcripts, once an action for referent iden-tification has been posited.
An important aspect of theaccount is the demonstration that speakers and hearerscan reason about referent identification much as theyreason about other actions and plans.
Hence, the lastgoal for this paper is to5.
Contrast the plan-based analysis of referring, andthe flexibility it allows, with Searle's account ofreference as a speech act.I show that Searle's analysis cannot account for manyof the examples treated here, and that those examples itdoes cover can also be handled by the present analysis.The conclusions I draw are specific to the conversa-tional task of giving instructions about objects physicallypresent to the hearer.
This task was chosen for fourreasons:?
First, it was expected that speakers would frequentlyissue requests.
Because requests dominate interactionswith many question-answering systems, and with mostconceivable interactive applications of naturallanguage processing, they have been extensivelystudied in computational linguistics.?
Second, because the task is simple and constrained, itprovides an excellent adequacy test for proposed theo-ries and computational techniques; any theory ofcommunication that cannot handle the phenomena ofthis study can hardly be called general.
However,since the domain is functionally similar to those ofvarious keyboard-based systems (Brachman et al1979, Robinson et al 1980, Winograd 1972), the dataand results of the study may suggest directions forextending those systems.?
Third, the domain is similar to those analyzed by otherresearchers (Chapanis et al 1972, Chapanis et al1977, Grosz 1977), and thus the dialogues could serveto confirm or refute their results.98 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communication?
Finally, instructions play a crucially important role inpeople's everyday lives - success in industrial, academ-ic, and bureaucratic tasks, for example, requires thefollowing of instructions.
Children are initiallyinstructed face-to-face, but they eventually learn tofollow written instructions.
The present study, thoughnot this paper, should ultimately provide a window onhow the language of written instructions differs fromthat of instructional dialogue.In summary, this paper applies an empirical methodol-ogy for analyzing discourse pragmatics to comparespoken and keyboard language for an instruction-givingtask.
The primary differentiating phenomenon, the useof explicit identification requests, is used as an adequacytest for a plan-based theory of communication.Conversely, the theory is used to explicate how suchcommunicative actions might be analyzed.
Finally, thetheory gives rise to a pragmatic analysis of referring thatsubsumes Searle's (1969).The remainder of this paper is organized as follows:Section 2 discusses previous-research in a number ofrelated areas.
Section 3 isolates the phenomena of inter-est - referent identification.
Section 4 describes thestudy and the method of discourse analysis, and Section 5presents and discusses the empirical results.
Section 6sketches the plan-based theory of communication andapplies the theory to key examples.
Section 7 counterspossible alternative xplanations that would purport toexplain the data without recourse to an analysis of speak-er intent.
Section 8 compares the analysis with Searle's,and suggests generalizations based on independentlymotivated principles.
Finally, the appendices contain thematerials, transcripts, and codings on which theseanalyses are based.
A full set of coded transcripts maybe obtained on request.2 Prev ious  ResearchFour traditions of research bear on the problems at hand:empirical work on differences between spoken and writ-ten language, discourse analysis, psychological studies ofreferential communication, and computational linguisticsstudies of discourse that have been based on observationof actual communicative interaction.The subject of oral/written language comparisons hasreceived much attention from researchers: Anthropolo-gists have traditionally studied characteristics of "oral"and "literate" cultures; human-factors researchers haveinvestigated the opportunities that particular modalitiesafford for effective communication; and educationalpsychologists, using empirical and anthropological meth-ods, have sought answers to children's reading and writ-ing problems in the study of oral/written languagedifferences.Rubin (1980) discusses methodological weaknesses inmany oral/written studies - weaknesses that stem from asimplistic division of language experiences into "oral"and "written".
Instead, she classifies language experi-ences in terms of their characteristic values on severaldimensions uch as: the use of voice or print, the abilityof "speaker" and "hearer" to interact, their spatialand/or  temporal commonality, their mutual involvementin the discourse, and the concreteness of the referents.Face-to-face conversations about physically presentobjects are seen to lie at one extreme within this"communication space" (with "positive" values on theabove dimensions), whereas written text is at the oppo-site.
Other language xperiences that differ along thesedimensions include communication by telephone,keyboard, audiotape, picturephone, writing, etc.
2 Rubinreports that many studies comparing language experi-ences present conclusions about oral/written languagedifferences even though the language experiences differfrom one another along multiple dimensions.
In suchcases it is not clear if the observed ifferences result, forexample, from the presence of voice, the ability to inter-act, or both.There is evidence that at least some quantitativelinguistic and efficacy results are primarily determined bythe presence of voice in the communication modality.
Aseries of studies by Chapanis and colleagues (Chapanis etal.
1972, Chapanis et al 1977) compared problem-solv-ing effectiveness among teams communicating in face-to-face, voice only, written, keyboard, and othercommunication modalities.
Dependent measuresincluded problem solution time, number of words,sentences, utterances, etc.
Results indicate that problemsare solved twice as fast in vocal modalities as they are inwritten ones, even though communicators use twice asmany words when speaking.
3 Although motivating thedevelopment of speech-understanding systems, theseresults unfortunately tell us little about how the process-ing of spoken utterances differs from the processing ofwritten ones.Other research as compared the syntax of spoken andwritten discourse.
The primary findings are: Writtenlanguage is syntactically more integrated than spoken,employing nominalizations, participles, complements,relative clauses, etc.
(Chafe 1982); and spoken languageexhibits regular patterns of false starts and hesitations(Hindle 1983, Kroch and Hindle 1982).
The formerresults can help a system designer to determine whichsyntactic onstructs to emphasize in a grammar for pars-ing.
The latter results are more useful to computationalz This approach essentially characterizes language situations as multidi-mensional vectors whose components, describing the above dimensions,are binary values (e.g., +/- voice).
Thus, it is assumed that neighboringmodalities afford equal communicative possibilities in all dimensions inwhich they are the same.
This is obviously untrue for the dimension ofinteraction.3 Thompson (1980) has confirmed Chapanis et al's results for face-to-face and keyboard modalities.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 3-4, July-December 1984 99Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationlinguistics.
Not only are regularities in nongrammaticalspeech identified, but a class of "editing" rules isprovided that can make such utterances parsable.Current work on relaxing grammar ules and on parsingill-formed input (Hayes and Mouradian 1981, Kwasnyand Sondheimer 1981, Weischedel and Black 1980) is inmuch the same spirit.The purposes at hand require analyses of the pragmat-ic and discourse structure of actual dialogues.
Grosz(1977) and Bruce (1981) (among others) have shownhow such discourse analyses can have direct implicationsfor algorithm design.
In their work, transcripts ofdialogues were collected and analyzed, leading to thedevelopment of algorithms for speech-understandingsystems (Walker 1978, Woods et al 1976).
4 Grosz'analyses indicate that anaphoric reference in task-orient-ed dialogues is constrained by the hierarchical structureof the physical task.
A parallel structuring of "focusspaces" was proposed as a mechanism to constrain thesearch for co-referents, and became the mainstay of thediscourse component of two systems (Robinson et al1980, Walker 1978).
Although this research did notdirectly address the problem of discovering cross-modalsimilarities and differences, the major finding of explicitly"stacked" topics serving to constrain co-reference wasvalidated independently in a domain of casual, face-to-face conversation (Reichman 1981).Bruce's pragmatics component for the HWIM systemwas based on transcripts of human keyboard-mediateddialogues simulating interactions with a travel budgetmanager.
Users were seen to be interacting in various"modes" (e.g., editing-a-trip mode, creating-a-trip mode,etc.).
The system attempted to track the user's progressthrough these modes, using an ATN-based represen-tation, and thereby to create expectations of his/herfuture utterances.
Discourse analysis revealed that usersdid not follow the strict embedding of subdialoguesrequired by the ATN model.
Consequently, the pragmat-ics component was reorganized as a "demand" model inwhich the system was seen as responding to one of a setof pending goals.
Although this research did not directlyaddress issues of cross-modal similarities and differences,it did point out the promise of a goal-oriented view oflanguage processing.Many researchers in the field of discourse analysishave tried to identify goals or intentions in dialogue.
Forexample, Labov and Fanshel (1977) analyzed transcriptsof therapy sessions by employing the vocabulary oflinguistics and speech act theory.
Their analysespresented rules for interpreting the intentions behindutterances of various syntactic forms - e.g., rules forwhen a hearer will interpret utterances as indirectrequests for physical action or verbal confirmation.However, these rules were stipulated as regularities ofdiscourse rather than as derived from underlying proc-esses.
Their findings should serve as data to be explained,rather than as a satisfying account of discourse.In research more relevant o computational linguistics,Mann et al (Mann, Moore, and Levin 1977; Mann,Carlisle, Moore, and Levin 1977) applied traditionalempirical methods to the identification of speaker inten-tion and utterance function in dialogue.
5 Their goal wasto build systems to replicate observers' scorings of tran-scripts.
The observers, and ultimately the systems, wereto identify repeated reference, requests, expressions ofcomprehension, topic structure, etc., in keyboarddialogues between a user and a computer operator, andin radio dialogues between Apollo astronauts and groundcontrol.
Much care was taken to develop a scoringscheme, train dialogue observers, and attain reliabilityMann, Carlisle, Moore, and Levin 1977).
A separatecomputer program was to have been built for processingeach transcript.
By merging the common features ofthese systems, an empirically-based theory and computa-tional model were to have been developed.
This workresulted in a goal-directed, "dialogue games" model ofconversational interaction (Levin and Moore 1977),though it is not clear whether the model's formulationresulted from the merging of implementations.Finally, there is a huge literature of psychologicalstudies of referential communication.
I will not survey ithere (but see Dickson 1981 for recent papers and Asher1979 for an extensive review), but mention only twothemes of relevance to this study.
First, such work hasshown that, in spoken interaction, noun phrase lengthtends to decrease as subsequent references to an objectare made.
However, in non-interactive spoken modalities(Krauss & Weinheimer 1966), the decrease for subse-quent references i lessened.
These results indicate thatefficiency in referential communication is a function ofuser feedback.The development of the component skills involved inreferring is a second theme in this literature.
In order totest Piaget's "egocentrism" hypotheses, a typical questionasked is whether children take their listener's"perspective" into account when planning their referringexpressions.
6 Another question raised is whether childrenof certain ages can adequately make comparisons of theproperties of referents and non-referents in order toformulate an adequate referring expression.
This line of4However, neither corpus incorporated true spoken interaction.
The SRIdialogues that were analyzed in depth were taken from a mixed commu-nication mode in which one, an "expert", typed instructions to a thirdparty, who spoke them to an "apprentice", and typed the apprentice'sspoken replies to the expert.
The BBN "incremental simulation"dialogues involved only keyboard communication.5Similar approaches include those of Dore et al (1978), and Sinclairand Coulthard (1975).Shatz and Gelman (1973) showed they can do so (though not neces-sarily accurately (Asher 1979)) at a much earlier age than had beensupposed.100 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 3-4, July-December 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationwork is more relevant o the present concerns of charac-terizing the act of identification, but the subskills exam-ined are still too coarse for our needs.Previous research has thus provided many lessons,among them:?
the need to compare (at least initially) modalities thatare minimally different,?
the need for repeatable methods for characterizinglinguistic behavior at the pragmatics and discoursestructure level,?
the need to assess the adequacy of our theories, and?
the need for couching explanations in computationalterms.The present study addresses each of these needs.3 The Phenomena of Interest: Referent Identifi-cationOne referential goal that is essential to the presentcommunication task is to get the hearer to identify theobject the speaker has in mind.
I shall be using the term"identify" in a very narrow, though important and basic,sense - one that intimately involves perception.
Thus,the analysis is not intended to be general; it applies onlywhen the referents are perceptually accessible to thehearer, and when the hearer is intended to use perceptualmeans to pick them out.
For the time being, I shallexplicitly not be concerned with a hearer's mentally"identifying" some entity satisfying a description, ordiscovering a co-referring description, although theseoperations are certainly important aspects of processingmany referring expressions.
In the remainder of thissection, properties of the referent identification act areexamined, in part by contrasting it with other conceptsthat have previously entered into computational linguisticanalyses of reference.Referent identification requires an agent and adescription.
The essence of the act is that the agent pickout the thing or things satisfying the description.
Theagent need not be the speaker of the description, andindeed, the description need not be communicatedlinguistically, or even communicated at all.
A crucialcomponent of referent identification is the act of percep-tually searching for something that satisfies thedescription.
To determine which method(s) should beused in identifying the referent, the agent first requiressome representation of the description per se.
Thedescription is decomposed by the hearer into a plan ofaction for identifying the referent.
The intended andexpected physical, sensory, and cognitive actions to beincluded in that plan may be signalled by the speaker'schoice of predicates.
For example, a speaker who utters,"the magnetic screwdriver, please", may expect andintend for the hearer to place various screwdriversagainst some piece of iron to determine which is magnet-ic.
Similarly, a speaker uttering the description "thethree two-inch long salted green noodles" may expectand intend the hearer to count, look at, measure, andperhaps taste various objects.
For their part, hearersdecompose the noun phrase/description to discover that"green" is determinable by vision, "inch" by measuring,"salted" primarily by taste, "noodle" primarily by vision,and "three" by counting.
Speakers know this is whathearers can do, and l~hus, using a model of the hearer'scapabilities and the causal connections among people,their senses, and physical objects, design the referringexpression D to suggest the actions needed to identify thereferent.Speakers often not only plan for hearers to identify thereferents of descriptions, but also communicate, in theGricean way (1957), their intention that the hearers doso.
This intention may not be explicitly signalled in theutterance, but rather have to be recognized by the hear-er.
To respond appropriately, a hearer decides whenidentification is the intended act to perform in responseto a description, what part this act will play in the speak-er's and hearer's plans, and when to perform the act.
Ifperceptually identifying a referent is represented as anaction in the speaker's plan, hearers could reason about itjust as they do about any other act, thereby becomingable to infer the speaker's intentions behind, for example,indirect identification requests.3.1 A sketch of a definition of perceptual refer-ent identificationFigure 1 presents a sketchy definition of the referentidentification action, in which the description is formedfrom "a/the y such that D(y)".
7YDAgt3 X \[PERCEPTUALLY-ACCESSIBLE(X, AgO &D(X) &IDENTIFIABLE(Agt,D)\]D3 X \[RESULT(Agt,IDENTIFY-REFERENT(D),IDENTIFIED-REFERENT(Agt, D, X)IFigure 1.
The act of referent identification.7 This definition is not particularly illuminating, but it is not any vaguerthan others in the literature, including Searle's (1969).
The point ofgiving it is that if a definition can be given in this form (i.e., as an actioncharacterizable in a dynamic logic), a plan-based analysis (see section7.5) applies.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 3-4, July-December 1984 101Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationThe formula follows the usual axiomatization ofactions in a dynamic logic: P z \[Act\]Q; that is, if P istrue, after doing Act, Q holds.
(1980) possible worlds semanticsoperator RESULT is taken to beaction, and a formula, iff in allfrom the agent's performing thattrue.
8Following Moore'sfor action, the modaltrue of an agent, anworld states resultingaction, the formula isThe antecedent says there exists some (perhaps morethan one) object satisfying three conditions.
The first isa "perceptual accessibility" condition to guarantee thatthe IDENTITY-REFERENT action is applicable.
Thisshould guarantee that, for example, a speaker does notintend someone to pick out the referent of "3","democracy", or "the first man to land on Mars".
Thecondition is satisfied in the experimental task because itrapidly becomes mutual knowledge that the task requirescommunication about the objects in front of the hearer.The second condition states that X fulfills thedescription D. Here, I am ignoring cases in which thedescription is not literally true of the intended referent,including metonymy, irony, and the like (but see Perraultand Cohen 1981).
Finally, D should be a descriptionthat is identifiable to this particular Agt.
It should usedescriptors whose extension the agent already knows orcan discover by action.
I am assuming that we can knowthat a combination of descriptors is identifiable withouthaving formed a plan for identifying the referent.If the antecedent is true, then the agent picks outsomething (not necessarily the object satisfying the ante-cedent) as the referent of D. His picking out the "right"(i.e., the intended) object is handled by a separate char-acterization of the speaker's intention with respect o thisaction (see section 7.5).
Here, I will merely give a nameto the state of knowledge the agent is in after havingidentified the referent of D - (IDENTIFIED-REFERENTAgt D X).
That is, Agt has identified the referent of D tobe X.
Of course, what has been notoriously difficult tospecify is just what Agt has to know about X to say hehas identified it as the referent of D. Clearly, "knowingwho the D is" (Hintikka 1969, Moore 1980) is no substi-tute for having identified a referent.
After having pickedout the referent of a description, we may still not notknow who the D is.
On the other hand, we may knowwho or what the description denotes, for example, byknowing some "standard name" for it, and yet be unableto use that knowledge to pick out the object.
For exam-ple, if we ask "Which is the Seattle train?"
and receivethe reply "It 's train number 11689", we may still not beable to pick out and board the train if its serial number isnot plainly in view.
Clearly, the notion of identificationneeds to be made relative to a purpose, which perhapscould be derived from the bodily actions that Agt isintended to perform upon the intended referent.
9Finally, although not stated in this definition, themeans by which the act is performed is some functionmapping D to some plan or procedure that, whenexecuted by Agt, enables Agt to discover the X that is thereferent of D.Even with this imprecise understanding of referentidentification, it is apparent hat not all noun phrasesused in task-oriented conversations (even with theperceptual access conditions satisfied) are uttered withthe intention that their referents be identified.
For exam-ple, in dialogues with an information booth clerk in atrain station (Allen 1979, Horrigan 1977), patrons utter-ing "the 3:15 to Montreal?"
are not intending the clerkto pick out the train.
Instead, as part of their plan forboarding a train, patrons are intending the clerk to supplythem with a co-referring noun phrase that will allow themto identify the train.
The attributive use of definite nounphrases (Donnellan 1960) is another case in which thespeaker has no intention that the hearer identify a refer-ent.
Other non-anaphoric uses of noun phrases includelabeling an object, correcting a referential miscommuni-cation, getting the speaker to wait while the speakeridentifies the referent, etc.
1?3.2 Comparisons with computational linguisticsapproaches to referenceComputational inguistics research has usually beenconcerned with co-reference - the relationship of wordsand symbols to other words and symbols.
Typically,referents of descriptions are determined by intersectingthe extensions of the predicates in the description,subject o the quantificational constraints imposed by thedeterminer.
Although perhaps adequate for interfacingwith databases, this approach presupposes that the exten-sions can be computed from information currently in thedatabase.
However, in interpreting and generatingdiscourse about some physical task, the system may haveto form a plan that it or its user perform physical actionsto determine the extensions of the predicates.Five approaches are most closely related to ours.
First,Winograd's SHRDLU (1972) attempted to simulate truereference with co-reference, at SHRDLU had a PLANNERfunction, THFIND, that could find objects in the databasesatisfying THGOAL statements as a simulation of finding8 Actually, Moore characterizes RESULT as taking an event and aformula as arguments.
In his framework, an agent's doing an actiondenotes an event.
However, this difference is not critical for whatfollows.The connection with the contextually relevant actions is a matter ofinference (see section 6).~0 For other discussion of speakers' goals in uttering noun phrases (seeSidner (1983) and Wilkes-Gibbs, unpublished ms).Ii On the other hand, one might argue that SHRDLU engaged in truereference because the discourse was about non-existing blocks"contained" within the system.
To pursue the truth of the matter wouldtake us too far afield.102 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationblocks in the real world.
THFIND was included in thesemantic representation f definite NPs, and in the repre-sentation of indefinite NPs when those NPs were embed-ded in an action verb.
However, THFIND is notattributed as a user goal, nor is it reasoned about (otherthan to maintain a distinction between definite and indef-inite NPs).
Furthermore, it is not treated in the same wayas acts such as PICKUP, whose execution is markedspecially so that the system can later answer "why" ques-tions.Second, Allen's (1979) system used an IDENTIFYstate in the control part of the plan-recognition mech-anism.
Again, for this system, identification meant tofind something in the database satisfying the requisitepredicates.
However, the IDENTIFY action itself was notpart of the plan being recognized.
The system did notreason about when IDENTIFY should be done (it alwaystried to IDENTIFY referents), nor did it attributeIDENTIFY to be part of its user's plan.The TDUS system (Robinson et al 1980) engaged in adialogue about the assembly of an air compressor that, itwas understood, was being assembled by an apprentice.Thus, the referents of the system's noun phrases wereperceptually accessible to the hearer.
The system wasprimarily oriented towards utterance interpretation, but itdid generate responses to questions.
In doing so, thesystem was in the same circumstances as the experts inthe present study.
However, because it was assumed thatthe extensions of all of the system's descriptors werealready known to the hearer, the system did not reasonthat it should choose particular eferring expressions othat the hearer could pick out their referents.
Instead,the choice of referring expressions was constrained byuniqueness and focus (Grosz 1977), constraints that arenot considered here but are clearly necessary.
AlthoughTDUS employed the concept of locating an object in itsrepresentation of successful task performance, thisconcept did not play a role in choosing referringexpressions unless the system was asked a question aboutan object's location.Appelt's KAMP system (1981) generalized TDUS toplan referring actions as part of the planning of illocu-tionary acts.
However, KAMP would only includedescriptors in a referring expression for which it wasalready mutually believed that the hearer knew the refer-ent.
Thus, it could not generate referring expressions tonew objects for the hearer to pick out.
Furthermore, asargued earlier, the concept of "knowing what the refer-ent is", which was central to KAMP's planning of refer-ring phrases, is too strong to be an accuraterepresentation f referent identification.Finally, the HAM-ANS question-answering system(Hoeppner, Morik, and Marburger 1984) generatesdescriptions of objects in a hotel room from visuallyderived information, assuming the user's visual searchprocesses are identical with its own.
In another applica-tion, the system answers questions about traffic flowbased on visual data.
In its tying reference to perception,the HAM-AN_S System has some of the flexibility that Iam advocating.
However, as with the others, it does notreason about identification as an action that the speakerintends it to do.
In this paper, 1 argue why such reason-ing is needed.3.3 SummaryIn summary, I am suggesting that referent identificationbe an action that the hearer infers to be part of thespeaker's plan, and that speakers plan for hearers toperform.
To ensure that hearers can do so, speakersemploy their knowledge of the hearer's perceptual abili-ties, and choose descriptions that will make use of thoseabilities.
The ability to reason about the referent identifi-cation act will allow the hearer to infer the intentionsbehind many utterances that secure reference separatelyfrom predication, and do so indirectly.
With this conceptin mind, we can proceed to examine its use in discourse.4 The  StudyTwenty-five subjects ("experts") each instructed arandomly chosen "apprentice" in assembling a toy waterpump, following Grosz's (1977) and Chapanis et al's(1972) task-oriented dialogue paradigm.
12Subjects were paid volunteer students from theUniversity of Illinois, all of whom were familiar with CRTterminals.
Five "dialogues" took place in each of thefollowing modalities: face-to-face, by telephone,keyboard ("linked" CRTs), (noninteractive) audiotape,and (non-interactive) written.
In all modes, the appren-tices were videotaped as they followed the experts'instructions.Face-to-face and written modalities are the ones usual-ly compared in oral/written discussions.
However, theydiffer along many dimensions (Rubin 1980).
Pairwisecomparisons of the modalities in this study can determinethe effects of mutual vision, interaction, and the use ofvoice or print.
Telephone and keyboard dialogues areanalyzed first because our conclusions would indicate theeffects of having a voice channel, and moreover wouldhave implications for the design of speech understandingand production systems.
These modalities take'on inter-mediate values in Rubin's dimensional space: the conver-sants share the same time frame, can interact, cannot seeeach other, and are conversing about objects mutuallyknown to be physically present o one of them.Each expert participated in the experiment on twoconsecutive days, the first for training and the second forinstructing an apprentice.
Subjects playing the expertrole were trained by following a set of assemblydirections consisting entirely of imperatives, assembling,2 An exploded parts diagram of the pump can be found in Appendix A.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 103Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationthe pump as often as desired, and then instructing aresearch assistant.
This practice session took place faceto face.
Experts knew that the research assistant alreadyknew how to assemble the pump.
Experts were given aninitial statement of the purpose of the experiment, whichindicated that communication would take place in one ofa number of different modes.
Experts were not informedof the modality in which they would communicate untilthe next day.
t3Apprentices were told the purpose of the experimentwas to analyze the communicating of a set of instructionsin different modalities.
They were not initially informedthat they were engaged in an assembly task.In both modes, experts and apprentices were located indifferent rooms.
Experts had a set of pump parts that,they were told, were not to be assembled but could bemanipulated.
In Telephone mode, experts communicatedthrough a standard telephone and apprentices communi-cated through a speaker-phone.
This device did not needto be held and allowed simultaneous two-way communi-cation.
Distortion of the expert's voice was apparent, butnot measured.Subjects in "keyboard" mode typed their communi-cation on Elite Datamedia 1500 CRT terminals connectedby the Telenet computer network to a computer at BoltBeranek and Newman Inc.
The terminals were "linked"so that whatever was typed on one would appear on theother.
Simultaneous typing was possible and did occur.Subjects were informed that their typing would notappear simultaneously on either terminal.
Responsetimes averaged 1 to 2 seconds, with occasionally longerdelays due to system load.4.1 Sample transcriptsThe following are representative samples of transcripts inthe two modalities.A TELEPHONE DIALOGUE FRAGMENTS: "OK. Take that.
Now there's a thing called a plun-ger.
It has a red handle on it, a green bottom, andit's got a blue lid.J: OKS: OK now, the small blue cap we talked aboutbefore?J: YeahS: Put that over the hole on the side of that tube -J: Yeaht3 The instructions given to the expert about the experiment and theassembly task are given in Appendix A. Burke (1982) reports that theorder of the instructions, and the descriptions of the pieces, influencedthe order and vocabulary of the expert's ubsequent instructions.S: - that is nearest o the top, or nearest o the redhandle.J: OKS: OK. Now.
now, the smallest of the red pieces?J: OK"A KEYBOARD DIALOGUE FRAGMENTB: "fit the blue cap over the tub endN: doneB: put the little black ring into the large blue cap withthe hole in it...N: okB: right Put the 1/4 inch long 'post' into the looselyfitting hole...N: i don't understand what you meanB: the red piece, with the four tiny projections?N: OKB: place it loosely into the hole on the side of the largetube...N: doneB: very good.
See the clear elbow tube?N: yesB: place the large end over that same place.N: readyB: take the clear dome and attach it to the end of theelbow joint..."4.2 Method of analysisDiscourses are analyzed for many reasons, with a corre-sponding variety of methods.
Some analyses of discoursestrive to explain what the text itself meant.
Recent workon discourse pragmatics emphasizes the need to explainwhat the speaker meant in producing the utterances, i.e.,what were the speaker's intentions?
To build dialoguesystems, we need to devise first theories and then algo-rithms for deriving what the speaker meant as a functionof what was said and of contextual factors.
The logicalfirst step toward such a formalization is to establish reli-able methods for isolating the words, context, and speak-er intent.
Each of these aspects of the discourse isconsidered below.104 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationFirst, the typewritten transcript of a verbal interactionprovides reasonably accurate data on what was said,provided one's goal is not to study prosody.
Second,contextual factors can be modelled in a setting in whichthe objects, communication task, and modality have beenselected by the experimenter.
The conversants' know-ledge of the domain is somewhat constrained by theexperimental setup and the initial instructions.
Thissemi-controlled nvironment can enable the experimenterto model the participants' initial experiment-inducedbeliefs, intentions, and expectations, which constitute ourmodel of the cognitive ffects of context.Finally, as the conversation progresses, one needsinterpretations of what each speaker meant, stated interms of further attributions of beliefs and intentions.Standard empirical methods hould be used to minimizeexperimenter bias in making such attributions.
In partic-ular, the theorist must be careful not to be the source ofbelief/intent attributions, for if given the leeway, he willundoubtedly find what he is looking for.
To avoid thisproblem, I trained two people to employ a vocabulary fordescribing intentions in discourse, the so-called"illocutionary acts" (or, loosely, "speech acts") (Austin1962, Searle 1969).
That is, the discourse analysts"code" the speaker's intentions in making an utteranceby assigning illocutionary act labels to utterances (orgroups of them).
Fortunately, the illocutionary actvocabulary is the natural one in our common-sensepsychology for making such attributions.
However,unlike most theories of illocutionary acts, I do not claimthat the conversants themselves attempt to determinewhat illocutionary acts were performed, although theymight be able to do so if requested.
14The illocutionaryact interpretations are therefore our interpretations, ascoders and as theorists.The data that need to be compared and explained arethese illocutionary act codings.
As mentioned earlier, anumber of researchers have attempted similar analyses,but are content with solely identifying regularities in theirdiscourses.
A preferable analysis would derive regulari-ties from more basic principles.
The method employedhere for formulating such derivations includes the follow-ing components:?
A logic of beliefs, mutual beliefs, and goals.?
A specification of the goals achieved by utterances ofvarious forms (e.g., a yes/no question is an attempt oget the hearer to inform the speaker whether or notthe proposition in question is true).?
A formal theory of rational, intentional action thatspecifies how an agent's actions are determined byboth his goals and his knowledge of the effects of,~4 See Cohen and Levesque (1980, in preparation) for a plan-basedtheory of communication that does not require the recognition of illocu-tionary acts.preconditions for, and means of accomplishing variousaction types.The aim of a competence theory of communicationbased on plans is to specify the set of possible plansunderlying the appropriate use of various illocutionaryacts.
In applying such a theory to the analysis ofdiscourse, plans are used to connect an utterance's formand content with the observers' illocutionary act coding,which is our best approximation to the speaker's intent.It is important to remember that these intentions may notbe identical to those conveyed by the literal utterance.The plans make use of a formalization of the exper-imental task, the modality and the prior discourse,expressed in terms of the participants' mutual beliefs,goals, expectations, and possibilities for action.
Thus, thetheory captures, albeit in an indirect way, the depend-ence of the discourse structure on the experimental taskand communication modality.In addition, a performance model would include algo-rithms for forming and recognizing plans of action toderive the observer's intent codings.
Although suchmodels have been built (Allen 1979, Brachman et al1979), I do not discuss them further here.In summary, the discourse analysis methodology is asfollows:?
Train coders to identify various illocutionary acts(IAS).?
Compare the distribution of IAs across modalities.?
Independently, characterize those IA types in terms ofplans.?
Formally derive the IA codings as a rational strategy ofaction, given attributions of the participants' beliefs,goals, and expectations at the point in the discourse inwhich the IAs occurred.When our work is complete, we will have analyses of thedifferences in achievement of the same overarching set ofgoals (the assembly task) as a function of modality.4.2.1 Coding the transcriptsThe first stage of discourse analysis involves the codingof the communicator's intent in making various utter-ances.
Following the experiences of Sinclair and Coul-thard (1975), Dore et al (1978), and Mann, Carlisle,Moore, and Levin (1977), a coding scheme was devel-oped and two people were trained in its use.
The codersrelied on written transcripts, audiotapes, and on vide-otapes.The scheme, which was tested and revised on pilotdata until reliability was attained, included a set ofapproximately eight illocutionary act categories that wereused to label intent, and a set of "operators" and prop-ositions that were used to describe the assembly task, asin Sacerdoti (1975).
Appendix B lists the propositionsand operators for the physical actions.
For example,putting two hollow, pipe-like pieces together was termedComputational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 105Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the iodal i ty  of CommunicationCONNECTing; putting a part with a protrusion into a partwith a hole was termed MESHing.
The operators forphysical actions often served as the propositional contentof the communicative acts.The following illocutionary act categories were coded:Communicative ActExampleRequest(Assembly Action)"But that on the hole"Request(Orientation Action)"the other way around""the top is the bottom'"Request(Pick-up)"take the blue base"Request(Identify-Referent)"there is a little yellow piece of rubber'"Request(Informif(\[relation\]))"and you've got the base on it?
"Request (Informif(Identified-referent))"got it?
""'the little red plug?
"Request(Achieve(\[relation\]))"and the purpose of  that is to cover up that hole ....\[relation\] = (Cover V2 Hole(TB)))\]Label"'that's a plunger"As discussed earlier, the action of referent identifica-tion is labelled IDENTIFY-REFERENT, and the state ofaffairs resulting from i t  is termed IDENTIFIED-REFERENT.
Communicating that the speaker wants, thehearer to do something is termed REQUESTing.
Yes/noquestions are REQUESTs to get a hearer to perform anINFORMIF action, i.e., to tell the speaker whether or notsome proposition holds.
One subcase of this is to tell thehearer whether or not a referent for a description hasbeen identified.
Finally, speakers often request thathearers make a relation true, without specifying an actionthat would do so.
This is cap\[ured by the REQUEST toACHIEVE \[relation\] coding.Regarding referent identification, the coders wereasked to state which utterances, or groups of utterances,constituted either an explicit request by the speaker thatthe hearer identify the referent of a noun phrase or aquestion about whether or not the hearer had done so.The coders were instructed not to consider whether ornot an utterance was an indirect request o pick some-thing up (but see section 6.4.1).
Furthermore, they weretold not to consider noun phrases in assembly requests asidentification requests unless identification was somehow"explicitly marked".
15 Because agreement about theintent behind utterance parts was not obtainable, Icannot assert, on the basis of empirical evidence alone,that noun phrases embedded in imperatives are requeststo identify the referents.
Instead, the speaker's intentbehind whole utterances (though not necessarilycomplete sentences) was coded, t64.2.2 Mechanics of codingOf course, a coding scheme must not only capture thedomain of discourse, it must be tailored to the nature ofdiscourse per se.
Many theorists have observed that aspeaker can use a number of utterances to achieve a goal,and can use one utterance to achieve a number of goals.Correspondingly, the coders could consider utterances asjointly achieving one intention (by "bracketing" them),could place an utterance in multiple categories, and couldattribute more than one intention to the same utteranceor utterance part.
The coders were instructed to ignorefalse starts, even though a false start may communicateinformation.Although our goals did not include a precise analysisof how prosody reflects speaker-intent and meaning,some decisions about bow to translate prosody intoorthographic form, which undoubtedly influence subse-quent discourse analyses, were made by the transcriberof the audiotapes.
To minimize inconsistencies in tran-scription, all transcriptions were checked by a secondparty.
Moreover, it was discovered that the physicallayout of a transcript, particularly the location of linebreaks, affected which utterances were coded.
To ensureuniformity, each coder first divided each transcript intoutterances that he or she would code.
These joint"bracketings" were compared to yield a base set of coda-ble utterance parts.
The coders could later bracket utter-ances differently if necessary.For one third of the transcripts, interrater eliabilitieswere calculated within each mode, for each category.The measure consisted of twice the number of agree-ments divided by the number of times that category wascoded (cf.
Mann, Carlisle, Moore, and Levin 1977).Reliabilities were high (above 88%).
Because ach disa-greement counted twice (against both categories thatwere coded), agreements also counted twice.4.2.3 Coding the sample dialogue fragmentsThe previous fragments are coded below to indicate someof the complexities of the data as well as the scoringscheme.
A number of shortcuts have been taken forexpository purposes.
First, if an act is stated as~ The above Telephone dialogue fragment contains one such intona-tionally marked noun phrase.t6 For a formal analysis that does make such a claim, see section 8.4 andCohen (1984).~7 The action-effect relation holding between the various propositionsand assembly actions can be readily inferred from Appendix B.106 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationCOMPLETE, then the proposition stated as the effect ofthat act holds.
17 Second, some of the arguments to theembedded propositions have not been presented whenthose arguments are not problematic.
Third, as arguedabove, the second argument of IDENTIFY-REFERENTshould be a description in some appropriate logical formrepresenting the meaning of the speaker's noun phrase.However, because it was too difficult to get coders todetermine logical forms for the noun phrases, theyinstead coded only the canonical names of the referentsas arguments.
Finally, the elapsed time between utter-ances is not shown here, but is available from the vide-otapes.The codings of S's first turn indicate an attempt oachieve more than one intention in one utterance.Specifically, the form "there's a ...", is a typical way toperform a request to identify something satisfying thedescription (the "...").
In this case, the speaker said"thing", and labelled that thing a plunger.
Whereas thelabelling act may be finished, the request for referentidentification apparently is not, and is continued over anumber of utterances.The other "bracketed" turn is an example of a speak-er's prosodically achieving multiple goals at once.
Here,the use of rising intonation in the middle of an imperativeis used to check whether the hearer knows what thespeaker is talking about.
The pragmatics of thisdiscourse situation led to the coding of "knowing whatthe speaker is talking about" as a request o physicallyidentify a referent.
Finally, notice the subsequent use ofa questioned noun phrase fragment o perform the sameact.
The use of fragments will be discussed furtherbelow.The coding of the Keyboard utterances is morestraightforward.
There are three strategies of instructionhere.
First, direct requests for assembly actions, in theform of imperatives, as in line (1).
Second, there areconjoined direct requests, for picking up followed by anassembly action, as in (12).
Finally, B performs eparateidentification requests, as in (7) and (8).What is important o notice here is that B shifts hisstrategy (in a fashion that resembles driving a three-speed car).
Before this fragment, the conversation hadproceeded smoothly, in "high gear", with B initially"upshifting" from first a "take and assemble" request osix consecutive assembly requests (one of them indirect),the last of which is utterance (1) of this fragment.In (5)-(7), we observe clarification dialogue about anoun phrase.
Immediately after an apparent breakdownat (3), B "downshifts" to questioning the achievement ofhis first subgoal, identifying the red piece.
Once that iscorrected, B stays in "low gear", explicitly ensuringsuccess of his reference, in (8), before requesting anassembly action in (9).
After that success, he "upshifts"to "second gear" - with requests to pick-up and assembleComputational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984in (13).
After being successful yet again, B "upshifts" to"high gear", using direct assembly requests, for the restof the dialogue (seven more requests).What could explain this conversation pattern?
Acommon sense analysis of the plan for assembling wouldindicate that to install a piece, one must be holding it; tohold it, one must pick it up; to perform any action on anobject, one must have identified that object.
By request-ing an assembly action ("high gear"), one requires thelistener to infer the rest of the plan.
By requesting thesequence take-and-assemble ("second gear"), the speak-er makes one of the inferences himself, but requires thelistener to realize that identification of the speaker's partdescription is needed.
Finally, "low gear" involves thespeaker's checking the success of the componentsubgoals, which involves identifying the referents of thespeaker's descriptions.
In summary, the strategy shift to"low gear" occurs after a referential miscommunicationbecause it affords a more precise monitoring of thelistener's achievement of the speaker's goals.
The ques-tion to be asked is how, if at all, the use of identificationrequests differs across modes of communication.5 Results5.1 Analysis 1: Distribution of requestsBecause most of each dialogue consists of the making ofrequests, the first analysis examined the frequency of thevarious kinds of requests in the corpus of five transcriptsfor each modality.
Table 1 displays the findings.Identification requests, which include questions aboutwhether a referent has been identified, are much morefrequent in Telephone dialogues than in Keyboardconversations.
In fact, they constitute the largest catego-ry of requests in the former.
Because orientationrequests, pick-up requests, and other requests are oftenissued to clarify or follow up on a previous request, it isnot surprising that they would increase in number(though not as a percentage) with the increase in the useof identification requests.
Furthermore, it is sensible thatthere are about the same number of requests for assem-bly actions (and hence half the percentage) in each modebecause the same "assembly work" is accomplished.Therefore, identification requests eem to be the primaryrequest differentiating the two modalities.
18 Notice alsothat Chapanis et al's finding of twice as many wordsused in spoken over written modes holds true when weconsider the number of requests rather than just words.t8 The only cases of unreliable coding resulted from attempts ocodeidentification requests when they were not obviously separate utter-ances.
Most of these unreliable cases were found in the Keyboarddialogues, but were included in the totals for that modality.
Thus, usinga strict criterion of counting only reliable xamples of identificationrequests, the differences between the two modes are even stronger thanshown i~ the table.i107Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationUTTERANCE CODINGS: "OK. Take that.Now there's a thingcalled a plunger.It has a red handle on it,a greenbottom, and it's got a blue lid.
'J: OKS: OK now, the small blue cap we talkedabout before?J: YeahS: Put that over the hole onthe side of that tube -J: YeahS: - that is nearest o the top, or nearestto the red handle..J: OKS: OK. now.
now, the smallest of the redpieces?J: OKREQUEST(PICK-UP)LABEL(PLUNGER)-REQUEST( IDENTIFY-REFERENT(PLUNGER))INFORM(COMPLETE( IDENTIFY-REFERENT (PLUNGER)))REQUEST(INFORMIF( IDENTIFIED-REFERENT(TUBE-CAP)))INFORM(COMPLETE( IDENTIFY-REFERENT(TUBE-CAP)))REQUEST(COVER)REQUEST(INFORMIF( IDENTIFIED-REFERENT OUTLET 1 ))INFORM(COMPLETE( IDENTIFY-REFERENT (MAIN-TUBE)))INFORM(COMPLETE (COVER))REQUEST(INFORMIF( IDENTIFIED-REFERENT (PLUG)))INFORM(COMPLETE( IDENTIFY-REFERENT(PLUG)))Figure 2.
The telephone fragment coded.5.2 Ana lys i s  2: F i rs t - t ime ident i f i cat ionsAlthough frequency data are important for computationallinguistics, they supply only a coarse description ofdiscourse phenomena and the dialogue itself.
For assess-ing the importance of a phenomenon, it is important odiscover the context in which it occurs.
In our case, thequestion arises whether the frequent use of identificationrequests is a function of the modality itself or a functionof the dynamics of the discourse (or both).
For example,identification requests might arise primarily after referen-tial miscommunication, as in the above Keyboarddialogue.
If they did, one might argue that people wouldspeak more carefully to machines than they do to people,leading to less miscommunication a d therefore a smallerfrequency of identification requests than we found.Consequently, the argument hat identification requestsare important for computational linguistics researchwould be weakened.
However, Fertig (unpublished)found no significant differences in the frequency ofmiscommunication across modes.
The observed modalitydifferences in the use of identification requests are there-fore due to other causes.To determine if the frequent use of identificationrequests holds across subjects within modes, a secondanalysis of the utterance codings was undertaken thatwas limited to "first-time" identifications - that is, howobjects were first introduced to hearers.
Each time anovice first identified a piece in response to a communi-cative act, that act was noted.
Furthermore, that act wascounted only if it was not preceded by another mention-ing the same part prior to the novice's identificationattempt.
This analysis therefore xamines only requestsused to make first effective reference to an object.
Table2 indicates the results for each subject in Telephone andKeyboard modes.Subjects were classified as habitual users of a commu-nicative act if, out of 12 pieces, the subject "introduced"at least 9 of the pieces with that act.
In Telephone mode,108 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationUTTERANCE(1)B: "fit the blue cap over the tub end(2)N: done(3)B: put the little black ring into thelarge blue cap with the hole in it...(4)N: ok(5)B: rightput the 1/4 inch long 'post' intothe loosely fitting hole...(6)N: I don't understand what you mean(7)B: the red piece, with the four tinyprojections?
(8)B: very good.See the clear elbow tube?
(9)N: Yes(10)B: Place the large end overthat same place.
(11)N: ready(12)B: take the clear dome and attach itto the end of the elbow joint...CODINGREQUEST(COVER(TUBE-CAP MAIN-TUBE))INFORM(COMPLETE(COVER))REQUEST(PUT-INTO(O-RING TUBE-BASE))INFORM(COMPLETE(PUT-INTO))REQUEST(MESH (VALVE3 OUTLET2))REQUEST (INFORMIF( IDENTIFIED-REFERENT (VALVE3)))REQUEST(INFORMIF( IDENTIFIED-REFERENT (SPOUT)))INFORM(IDENTIFIED-REFERENT (SPOUT))REQUEST(CONNECT(SPOUT OUTLET2))INFORM(COMPLETE(CONNECT SPOUT OUTLET2))REQUEST(PICK-UP(AIR-CH))REQUEST(CONNECT(AIR-CH SPOUT))Figure 3.
The keyboard ialogue fragment coded.four of five experts were habitual users of identificationrequests to get the apprentice to find a piece.
Theremaining subject used the strategy of first requesting theapprentice to pick up a part, and then requesting that itbe attached to the pump.
In Keyboard mode, no expertswere habitual users of identification requests.
However,three experts were habitual users of assembly requests ingetting apprentices to identify objects.To show a "modality effect" in the making of firsteffective reference, the number of habitual users of eachrequest type in each mode was subjected to Fischer'sexact probability test.
This calculates the probability thatdifferences in the number of habitual and nonusers of aparticular reference strategy in different modes couldhave happened by chance.
Even with five subjects permode, differences in the use of identification requestsacross modes were significant (p = 0.023), indicatingthat Telephone conversation per se differs fromKeyboard conversation i  the ways in which a speakerwill first get a hearer to identify an object.In summary, it has been shown that Telephone andKeyboard modes differ primarily in the use of explicitidentification requests.
These requests do not simplyoccur after referential miscommunication (as they do inKeyboard), but are used to first introduce objects.
Theexperts then often question the apprentices aboutsuccessful completion of the identification act (just asthey do assembly acts).
Experts using keyboards do notattempt o achieve referential goals explicitly.
Instead,referential goals are subsumed in assembly requests.Voice communication is thus "finer-grained" thankeyboard communication.5.3 Compar i son  w i th  o ther  s tud iesThese results are similar to observations by Ochs andcolleagues (Ochs 1979; Ochs, Schieffelin, and Pratt1979).
Using evidence from transcripts, they point outthat caretaker-child and child-child discourse oftenconsists of "sequential" constructions - with separateutterances for securing reference and for predicating.Ochs et al suggest that the presence of sequentialComputational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 109Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationTable 1.
Distribution of requests (percent).Type of Request Telephone (n=288) Keyboard (n=134)Assembly 25 51Orient 9 8Other 15 13Pick-up 16 17Identification 35 10constructions i  tied to the possibility for preplanning anutterance.
Relatively unplanned iscourse, it is claimed,relies on the pragmatic ontext o express propositions,where planned discourse would use syntactic means.Unplanned discourse results when speakers are concen-trating on a task or when the expression of a concept isparticularly difficult.
The present study upholds Och etal.
's claim for Telephone and Keyboard communication,but does not do so for the Written condition, in whichmany identification requests occur as separate steps(Tierney et al 1983).
Furthermore, Ochs et al's claimdoes not account for the use of identification requests inKeyboard modality after prior referential miscommuni-cation (see section 4.1 for a sample conversation), indi-cating that sequential constructions can result from (whatthey term) planned as well as unplanned iscourse.Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs (unpublished) analyze refer-ential communication data similar to ours.
Their concernis to show that referring is a collaborative process, onethat proceeds by a speaker's proposing a referringexpression, and a hearer's accepting or rejecting it asadequate for identifying the referent.
Among the speak-er's strategies for securing reference, they note elabo-rations (which I called "supplements"), trial proposals(Question-requests for identification), partial proposals,and others.
Unlike what has occasionally been assumedin the referential communication literature, speakers arenot regarded as trying to produce, in one turn, an effec-tive referring expression that is minimally long.
Instead,they claim speakers attempt to minimize the collaborativeeffort of both parties.
The discourses they analyzedoverlap significantly in structure with those found here.The present account differs in that I give a formal analy-sis of the act of referring as an illocutionary act - anaccount hat allows for indirect performance.It is difficult to compare the present results with thoseof other studies.
Chapanis et al's (1977) observationthat voice modes are faster and wordier than keywordmodes certainly holds here.
However, their transcriptscannot easily be used to verify the present findingsbecause, for the equipment assembly problem, theirsubjects were given a set of instructions that could be,and often were, read to the listener.
Thus, utterancefunction would often be predetermined.
Our subjects110had to remember the task and compose the instructionsafresh.Stoll et.
al.
's (1976) lexical analysis of the Chapanisdata indicates that in verbal modalities ubjects producemany more pronouns and (what they term) "functionwords", which include articles, prepositions, modals,existential "there", etc.
In the present study, there wereat least two requests used for each assembly step in Tele-phone mode.
Each pair of requests (identificationrequests followed by assembly requests, or requests topick up followed by assembly requests) involved at leastone common object being manipulated.
In the assemblyrequest, the speakers frequently referred to that objectwith a pronoun.
Thus, because of the pragmatically fine-grained nature of Telephone mode, there are many morepronouns to to resolve.
I suspect he same kind of analy-sis can be applied to Stoll et.
al.
's "function word" cate-gory, although that category is so diverse thatgeneralizations may be harder to find.
However, it isclear that in the present data, the use of "existentialthere" sentences, by far the largest class of identificationrequests, is only a Telephone strategy.Modality differences in Grosz' (1977) study cannot bedirectly compared for the identification phenomenabecause the core dialogues that were analyzed in deptheach employed both spoken and keyboard modalities.However, the present results would predict that indirectidentification requests would not appear because theexpert, who did most of the communicating, used akeyboard.Finally, Thompson's (1980) extensive tabulation ofutterance forms in a multiple modality comparison over-laps the analysis in this paper at the level of syntax.
BothThompson's and the present study are primarilyconcerned with extending the usability of current systemsby identifying phenomena that people use, but thatwould be problematic for computers.
However, the twostudies proceeded along different lines.
Thompson's wasmore concerned with utterance forms and less with prag-matic function, whereas for this study, the concerns arereversed in priority.
This study's concern stems from theobservation that differences in utterance function willinfluence the processing of utterances with the sameComputational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationTable 2.
Communicative Acts Making First EffectiveReference to Each of 12 Pump Pieces.TELEPHONE REQUESTS KEYBOARD REQUESTSSUBJECT IDENT PICK-UP ASSEMBLY IDENT PICK-UP ASSEMBLY1 9 2 1 1 2 92 1 10 1 0 2 93 11 1 0 1 2 94 9 1 0 0 6 35 10 0 0 2 6 4form.
The remainder of this paper explores issues ofinferring utterance function partly from utterance form.6 Analysis of Utterance Forms: IdentificationRequestsThus far, explicit identification requests have been shownto be pervasive in Telephone mode.
One might expectthat, in analogous circumstances (i.e., with analogousgoals and perceptual capabilities), a robot might beconfronted with many of these acts.
Computationallinguistics research then must discover algorithms fordetermining an appropriate analysis and response, in partas a function of utterance form.
To see just which formsare used for the task, utterances classified as identifica-tion requests in Telephone mode were tabulated.
Thefull listing of identification requests can be found inAppendix C.Table 3 presents a classification of these utterances,along with an example of each class.
The utteranceforms are divided into four major groups, based on theirsimilarities in either syntactic or logical form.
The firstgroup consists of utterances whose logical form is anexistential proposition (usually determined by the pres-ence of an indefinite noun phrase).
The second categoryincludes those utterances that mention perceptual actions(e.g., "look") and perceptual effects (such as "see"), butare not syntactically imperatives.
The third class containsidentification requests performed with utterance frag-ments, usually noun or prepositional phrases (PPs).
Theconcept of fragment is not solely a syntactic lassification- hearers can be requested prosodically to respond toNPs and PPs that are embedded in full sentences.
Othercategories of utterance forms for identification requestsinclude what are "nearly direct" requests (i.e., imper-atives and utterances that explicitly mention searching foran object) and what are termed "Let's requests", whichexplicitly change the focus of attention to an object satis-fying the description.
Finally, one class of utterances,accounting for 11% of identification requests and called"supplemental NP" (e.g., "Put that on the opening in theother large tube, with the round top"), was unreliablycoded and not considered for the analyses below.
Cate-gory labels followed by "(?)"
indicate that the utterancescomprising those categories might also have been issuedwith rising intonation.
Typically, such utterances werecoded as questions and also as requests for identification.The important hing to notice in Table 3 is that inTelephone mode identification requests were almost neverperformed irectly.
No speaker used direct forms, e.g.,"Find the rubber ring shaped like an O", which occurredfrequently in the Written modality (Tierney et al 1983).However, the use of indirection is selective - Telephoneexperts frequently use direct imperatives to performassembly requests.
Moreover, many speakers adopted aconsistent style.
For example, all the "nearly directrequests" came from one speaker, and another almostuniformly used the "there's a NP" strategy.Because explicit identification requests come in manysyntactic forms, each of which has a literal interpretationthat is not an identification request, the hearer needssome method for deciding what the speaker's intention(s)are.
Ideally, such reasoning should be an application ofmore general reasoning about nonlinguistic actions.
Ofcourse, a suitable "compiling" strategy can specialize thegeneral case for this task (cf.
Brachman et al 1979).Below, I sketch such a theory and apply it to the exam-ples in Table 3.6.1 A sketch of a plan-based theory of communi-cationThe unifying theme of much current pragmatics researchis that the coherence of dialogue is to be found in theinteraction of the conversants' plans.
That is, a speakeris regarded as planning his utterances to achieve hisgoals, which may involve influencing a hearer.
Onreceiving an utterance, the hearer attempts to infer thespeaker's goal(s), and to understand how the.
utterancefurthers them.
The hearer then adopts new goals (e.g., torespond to a request, to clarify the previous speaker'sutterance or goal), and plans his own utterances toachieve those.
A conversation ensues.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 111Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationTable 3.
Identification requests in telephone mode.Group Category \]Example\] Per Cent of Request(Ident.)A.
EXISTENTIAL PROPOSITIONS1.
THERE'S A NP(?
)\["there's a black o-ring (?
)"\]2.OBJ HAS PART(?
)\["It's got a peg in it"3.
LISTENER HAS OBJ?\["Now you have two devices that are clear plastic"\]4.
DESCRIPTION1 --- DESCRIPTION2\["The other one is a bubbled piece with a blue base on it with one spout"\]25%14%10%9%B.
PERCEPTION-BASED1.
INFORM(IF ACT THEN EFFECT)\["If you look at the bottom you will see a project"\]2.
QUESTION(EFFECT)\["If you look at the bottom you will see a projection"\]3.
INFORM(EFFECT)\["you will see two blue tubes"\]2%f5%2%C.
FRAGMENTS1.
NP AND PP FRAGMENTS (?
)\["The smallest of the red pieces?"\]2.
PREPOSED OR INTERIOR PP (?
)\["and in the bottom of the blue cap on the main tube (pause) there is a hole"\]12%6%D.
NEARLY DIRECT REQUESTS\["Look at the bottom of the tube"\]\["The next thing you're gonna look for is...."1%1%E.
LET'S REQUESTS\["Let's go to the little tiny blue cap"\] 5%Recent work of this type (Allen 1979, Appelt 1981,Bruce 1983, Bruce and Newman 1978, Bruce andSchmidt, Cohen 1978, Cohen and Levesque 1980,Cohen and Perrault 1979, Perrault and Allen 1980,Schmidt 1975, Sidner and Israel 1981) has resulted informal and computational models of communication thathave been applied in analyzing dialogues about tasks andstories.
The general features of the models include: asimple theory of action, definitions of various physicaland communicative actions, a set of inference rules forformulating and recognizing plans of action, a formaliza-tion of agents' beliefs, goals, and expectations, and amapping of utterance forms to the "surface speechactions" speakers are performing in making those utter-ances.For the purposes of this paper, planning is simplis-tically viewed as the process of finding an action (or asequence of them) that will achieve the agent's goal(s)given what he believes to be the state of the world.Roughly speaking, to recognize an agent's plan inperforming an action, observers deploy a theory of plan-ning "in reverse" to connect he observed action with achain of inferences of the form "agent did X in order toachieve Y, which would enable him to do Z", terminatingin (what they take to be) a likely or expected goal of theagent (Allen 1979; Genesereth 1978; Schmidt, Sridhar-an, and Goodson 1979; Wilensky 1978).
Such reasoningemploys beliefs about the agent's beliefs, conditions thatare likely to be true at the end of an action, other actionsthat are enabled by those conditions, and expected plansand goals of that agent.112 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the I~lodality of Communication6.2 Ana lyz ing  indi rect  ident i f i cat ion  requestsPerrault and Allen (1980) have proposed the followingplan-recognition i ferences:?
Action-effect: If the observer thinks the agent wants todo an action, the observer can posit that the agentwants that action done in order to achieve its typicaleffect.?
Precondition-action: If the agent is thought to wantsome proposition P to be true, and P is the precondi-tion of an action known to the agent, consider that theagent's goal is to perform that action.?
Body-action: If the agent is thought o have a goal thatis the means by which a "higher level" action isperformed, then consider that the agent is attemptingto perform that action.
19?
Knowif:  If the agent is thought to want to knowwhether or not some proposition P holds, then consid-er that the agent wants P to hold (or wants P to befalse).The plan-recognition process first classifies utterancesby their mood into so-called "surface speech acts":declaratives become instances of the S-INFORM act type,imperatives become S-REQUESTS, and questions becomeS-REQUESTS to INFORMIF or INFORMREF (for Yes /Noand Wh questions, respectively).
These surface acts arethe prototypical ways to perform the corresponding illo-cutionary acts REQUEST, INFORM, and REQUEST toINFORMIF.
1?Grice (1957) has argued that a simple plan-recognitionprocess, which an unseen observer might perform, cannotbe the basis for communication.
Rather, the hearer mustinfer and act on what the speaker wants him to think shewants.
A plan-based theory proposes that such reason-ing is invoked by applying the independently motivatedplan-recognition process to the observed communicativeactions.
Hearers are, in effect, asking themselves "Whydid the speaker say that?"
Subsequent reasoning, termedhere intended plan recognition, derives other goals that thehearer thinks she or he was supposed to infer.
The proc-ess of attributing oals to an agent is terminated when aninference path merges with a mutually expected goal ofthat agent.This plan-based approach as led to a first explanationof a large class of "indirect speech acts" - utteranceswhose surface form indicates one speaker intention, butfor which additional intentions should be recognized.For example, although "Can you reach the hammer?"
isliterally a yes/no question, the speaker may have anothergoal - to get the hearer to pass the hammer to the speak-er.
The essential insight of the theory is that indirectspeech act recognition is a by-product of the generalprocess of recognizing someone's plans.
If illocutionaryact identification occurs immediately after the expansionof a surface act, then a literal interpretation has beenfound.
If there are intervening intended plan-recognitioninferences, then an indirect interpretation has beeninferred.6.3 ExampleThe following example is intended to give a brief intro-duction to the reasoning underlying indirection.
Detailsof this process can be found in (Allen and Perrault 1980,Perrault and Allen 1980).
The utterance to be interpret-ed is, "'Can you reach the hammer?"
The inferred prop-ositions are indicated in boldface; commentary on theinference process is indented.After parsing and semantic interpretation, the utter-ance is represented as a surface speech act:HBSW (S-REQUEST(S,H,INFORMIF(H,S,CANDO(H,REACH(H, HAMMER)))))That is, the Hearer Believes the Speaker Wantedto perform (what appears to be) a yes-no ques-tion about his ability to reach the hammer.The effect of an S-REQUESTS to do action ACTis simply that the hearer believes the speakerwants the hearer to do ACT.
Thus, applying theaction-effect inference to the S-REQUESTS act,yields:HBSW(HBSW(KNOWIF(S,CANDO(H,REACH(H,HAMMER)))))The first level of "HBSW" comes from assumingthe speaker's action was intentional.
The secondlevel is derived from the effect of the surfacespeech act.
Now, intended plan recognitioninvolves deriving new formulas of the formHBSW(HBSW(G)), i.e., the Hearer Believes theSpeaker Wants him to think the speaker's goal isG.
Any goals G'  derived with the prefixHBSW(HBSW) are taken to have been communi-cated (in the Gricean sense).
The truth of thepreconditions to the actions that are inserted intothe (intended) plan being recognized are evalu-ated with respect o the mutual beliefs of speakerand hearer.The two outer levels of "HBSW" are assumed toembed all the following formulas.
In particular,applying the knowif inference at this level ofembedding, the hearer ealizes the speaker wantsto knowif P (i.e., to know whether or not H canreach the hammer) because he wants him to beable to reach the hammer, yielding~9 Note that this inference can adversely affect he combinatorics of theplan-recognition process.z0 Levesque and I (in preparation) demonstrate how the intentionsunderlying these indirect speech act analyses can be derived using thesurface speech acts and plan-recognition inferences, but not Perraultand Allen's illocutionary acts.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 113Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationCANDO(H,REACH(H,HAMMER))CANDO(H,ACT) is true when the preconditionsof ACT are true, and the speaker wants the prec-onditions to be true because he wants the actdone:REACH(H,HAMMER)S wants the act done for its effect:HAVE(H,HAMMER)S wants the effect because it enables anotheract:PASS(H,S,HAMMER)Finally, because the embedded HBSW(PASS...) isa way of performing a request to pass thehammer, the body-action inference yields:HBSW (REQUEST(S,H,(PASS(H,S,HAMMER))))Of course, the procedure could also have deriveda request o reach the hammer.
It does not do sobecause of the "level-of-inference" heuristic thatpursues inference paths at the HBSW(HBSW)level of embedding before those with just theHBSW level of embedding.
Applying the action-effect inference to the REQUEST action, andcollapsing a few uninteresting inferences, Hinfers:HBSW(PASS(H,S, HAMMER))Then, H arrives at:HBSW(HAVE(S,HAMMER))Because the speaker's having the hammer was(assumed to be) an expected goal, the inferenceprocess tops.To summarize, the plan-based theory views speechactions as planned actions that can be reasoned about inthe same ways as physical actions.
Indirect speech actinterpretation involves linking the surface speech actcharacterizing each utterance with some expected goalthrough a chain of means-ends reasoning.
When appliedto a discourse, the plan-based theory attempts to mediatebetween utterance form and a (potentially changing) setof beliefs, goals, and expectations.6.4 App ly ing  the  theoryAssume that syntactic and semantic components havealready analyzed the utterances, resulting in a logicalform for each sentence or complete constituent.
Further-more, assume that the apprentice has inferred the follow-ing expectations about the expert's goals: "For eachpiece making up the pump: The expert gets the appren-tice to: identify the piece, pick it up, and perform someassembly action on it."
Such expected goals can be usedto terminate the process of plan recognition.
Now, manyof the utterance forms can be analyzed as requests foridentification once an act for physically searching for thereferent of a description has been posited.
For conven-ience, the definition of IDENTIFY-REFERENT, fromsection 3.1, is repeated below:V D Agt3 X \[PERCEPTUALLY-ACCESSIBLE(X, Agt) &D(X) &IDENTIFIABLE(Agt,D)\]3 X \[RESULT(Agt,IDENTIFY-REFERENT(D),IDENTIFIED-REFERENT(Agt, D, X)\]Figure 4.
The act of referent identification.6.4.1 Ex is tent ia l  p ropos i t ionsThe utterances in Class A can then be analyzed asrequests for IDENTIFY-REFERENT by applying planrecognition to the definition of the surface speech acts.Class A includes all declarative utterances whose logicalform is an existential proposition (3 X P(X)), whichincludes utterances of the form "there is a .... ", "youhave a .... ", and "\[object\] has a .... \[part\]".
These utter-ances would appear literally to be informative.
However,they can be interpreted as requests that the hearerIDENTIFY-REFERENT of the description "the P" byreasoning that a speaker's wanting a hearer to believethat a precondition to an action (IDENTIFY-REFERENT)is true can communicate (in the Gricean way) that thespeaker wants that action to be performed, provided theact's effect is mutually known to be an expected goal ofthe speaker's.For example, "it's got a peg in it" is represented as 3 x\[INSIDE(x, PLUNGER) & PEG(x)\].
Informing a hearer ofthis proposition yields sufficient conditions for inferringIDENTIFY-REFERENT (APPRENTICE, \[INSIDE(x,PLUNGER) & PEG(x)\]), whose effect unifies with amutually expected goal.
Thus, the existing indirectionmachinery can handle these cases.
21Yes/no questions can be recognized as requests foridentification by the means of the same plan-recognitionprocess.
There are two cases.
In one case, the hearer ismodelled as inferring that the speaker wants the proposi-tion in question to be true because it enables ome action(i.e., IDENTIFY-REFERENT) to be performed that willyield a desired effect (IDENTIFIED-REFERENT).
Theinference takes hold because it is mutually believed thatthe speaker already knows the answer to his question.For example, in saying, "There's a little blue cap?"
it isshared knowledge that the speaker already knows such a114 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationcap is in front of the hearer.
Therefore, finding outwhether there is such a cap could not be the speaker'sgoal.
22 In the second case, the hearer wants to knowwhether some proposition is true because he wants it tobe true (or false), and wants the hearer to make it true(or false).
In this way, questioning IDENTIFIED-REFERENT can be taken as a request forIDENTIFY-REFERENT.Z3, 246.4.2 Percept ion -based  ut terancesPlan recognition can also suggest how Class B utterancesall convey requests for referent identification.
In thisclass, ACT = LOOK-AT, EFFECT = AGENT SEE X.Because LOOK-AT is one of the constituent acts ofIDENTIFY-REFERENT, Perrault and Allen's "body-action" inference, given a formalization of perceptualactions and their relation to searching, should make thenecessary connection - the speaker wanted the hearer toLOOK-AT something as part of his IDENTIFY-REFERENT act.
Specifically, Case 1 \["If you look, youwill see..." (If you don't,  you won't)\]  again appears to bean informative utterance about a conditional.
The speak-er's intent that the hearer actually look for  something isderived by an inference saying that if a speaker commu-nicates that an act will yield some desired effect, then onecan infer that the speaker wants that act performed toachieve that effect.
Case 2 ("Do you see X") is againindirect because the hearer can truthfully answer "No" ifhe is looking out the window.
Again the appropriate2~ The formalism also predicts that, in this task, an indirect request toidentify an object would also be an indirect request o pick up thatobject, because the line of inference isunambiguous and its end goal ismutually believed to be desired.
If it were mutually believed that apossible nd goal of the inference path (e.g., that the apprentice beholding the piece) was not desired (because, for instance, the piece wasknown to be hot), then the hearer would not infer he was supposed topick up the piece.
Although the coders were not asked to make thisdistinction, further analysis ndicates the modality differences are stron-ger when pick-up requests are considered together with identificationrequests inAnalysis 2.
In Telephone mode, all 5 subjects were habitualusers of either identification or pick-up requests, whereas no subjectswere habitual users of either of those request types in Keyboard mode.Differences across modes are significant (p = 0.004).22 "Do you have homework to do?"
is similarly identified as a requestthat you do your homework.23 A similar inference occurs in recognizing "Is the garbage out?"
as arequest to take out the garbage.24 Occasionally, speakers appear to ask "real" questions.
For example,after requesting the hearer to identify a part, a speaker asked, "Do yousee that?"
1 would have coded this as a true question, and not as anidentification request, because the goal of an identification request (thespeaker's communicating hisintent hat the hearer identify the piece)has already been achieved.
The interrogative, then, is truly a questionabout whether the part has been identified.
The coders, however, werenot asked to make this distinction.
The formalism akes predictionsconcerning which utterances were identification requests and whichwere only questions; ince the codings did not reflect his difference, wehave considered all questions to be identification requests.
The numberof cases of suspected true questions i small enough that the quantita-tive results are still valid.intention - that the hearer look for X - can be inferredby noticing that the speaker's questioning whether thedesired effect of an act holds conveys the sense that theact itself is desired (e.g., "Is the garbage out?").
Case 3("You will see X")  is similar to Case 1, except that therelationship between the desired effect and the actionyielding that effect is presumed.6.4.3 F ragmentsGroup C utterances constitute the class of fragmentsclassified as requests for identification.
Case 1 includesNP fragments, often with rising intonation.
The action tobe performed is not explicitly stated, but must besupplied on the basis of shared knowledge about thediscourse situation - who can do what, who can seewhat, what each participant hinks the other believes,what is expected, etc.Allen and Perrault's (1980) method of handling frag-ments involves unifying (in the technical sense of theterm) the effects of the possible surface speech actscorresponding to the fragment with expected goals of thespeaker.
The result is a more fully specified goal that can,perhaps, be acted on.
For questioned singular definitenoun phrases (NP), their model proposes two possibleincomplete surface speech acts:S-REQUEST(S,H,INFORMIF(H,S, ~ (ixNPx))), andS-REQUEST(S,H,INFORMREF(H,S, iy\[ ~b (ixNPx) = y\])).For example, on hearing "The Windsor train?"
thesystem would initially take the speaker either to be 'askinga yes /no  question about some property ~ of the referentof "the Windsor train", or to be asking to know that thereferent of the value of applying some function ~b to thereferent of "the Windsor train".
The respective ffectsof these surface acts would involve the hearer's thinkingthe speaker's goal is to know whether or not that predi-cate ~ holds, or to know the identity of the referent of iy\[~/ (ixNPx) = y\])).
The appropriate predicates (~) andfunctions (~) need to be supplied from domain-depen-dent expectations.
In the former case, the predicate ,~might be (LAMBDA y (LEAVES-AT(y,4:40))), whereas inthe latter case, the function ~k might be (LAMBDA y (GATE(y))).Consider a questioned noun phrase, and just theyes /no  question interpretation.
The next step, accordingto the theory, is to infer that (it is shared knowledge) thatthe speaker wants (the hearer to think) that the speaker'sgoal is that ,~ (iyNPy) be true.
The properties ,~ neededto "fill in" such fragments come from mutually expectedgoals of the expert.
The expected goal in question forthis domain, which is (somehow) derived from the natureof the task as one of manual assembly, is(IDENTIFIED-REFERENT APPRENTICE D X), where Dbecomes bound to iyNPy, X names the referent, and ~ isIDENTIFIED-REFERENT.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 115Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationFrom this, the apprentice infers that he should make(IDENTIFY-REFERENT APPRENTICE iyNPy X) true.
Inthe same way that questioning the completion of anaction can convey a request for action, questioningIDENTIFIED-REFERENT conveys a request forIDENTIFY-REFERENT (see Case 2, Group B, above).Thus, by my positing an IDENTIFY-REFERENT act, andby my assuming that the effect of this act is expected, theinferential machinery can derive the appropriate inten-tion behind the use of a noun phrase fragment.Notice that "fragment" is not a simple syntactic lassi-fication.
In Case 2 ("In the green thing at the bottom\[pause\] .
.
.
.
Mmhm"), the speaker paralinguistically "callsfor" a hearer esponse in the course of some linguisticallycomplete utterance.
Because of the nature of the task,Case 2 is coded as an identification request.
A simplesyntactic lassification of fragments would not considerthis request as fragmentaryYThis treatment of fragments i different from the usualone in computational linguistics, in which the fragment ismatched into prior syntactic forms.
Such an approachcannot work for fragments poken without prior linguis-tic context, nor for fragmented adverbials whose coher-ence depends on a prior system action.
Allen andPerrault's approach is an attempt to access the user's goalwithout reconstructing either a full syntactic or semanticanalysis.6.4.4 Nearly direct requests!Group D utterance forms are the closest forms to directrequests for identification that appeared, though strictlyspeaking, they are not direct requests.
Case 1 ("Look atthe bottom of the tube") mentions "Look at", but doesnot indicate a search explicitly.
The interpretation of thisutterance in Perrault and Allen's scheme would requirean additional "body-action" inference to yield a requestfor identification.
Case 2 ("The next thing you're gonnalook for is...") is literally an informative utterance,though a request could be derived in one step.
It isimportant that the frequency of these "nearestneighbors" is minimal (2%).6.4.5 "Let's" requestsOne speaker used "Let's" requests explicitly to shift thetopic of conversation to one previously "closed" (Grosz1977), and in the process to get the hearer to re-identifyan object.
Whereas other identification requests hift thetopic as a by-product, this request seems literally to be atopic shift, with identification as a by-product.6.5 SummaryThe act of explicitly requesting referent identification isnearly always performed indirectly in Telephone mode.This being the case, inferential mechanisms are neededfor uncovering the speaker's intentions from the varietyof forms with which this act is performed.
A plan-basedtheory of communication accounts for 69% of the iden-tification requests in the corpus \[class A (56%), class C1(12%), and class D2 (1%)\].
Furthermore, plan recogni-tion can infer the LOOK-AT action from the perception-based utterances \[class B (9%)\], but cannot yet connectLOOK-AT to IDENTIFY-REFERENT, because the meansfor performing IDENTIFY-REFERENT remains unspeci-fied.
Class C2 (preposed or interior prepositional phras-es) requires a prosodic analysis to determine that ahearer esponse is called for and precisely what constitu-ent is in question.
With such an analysis, Perrault andAllen's fragment analysis can employ expectations torespond appropriately.
Finally, Class E ("Let's"requests) is problematic for this theory (but see Grosz1977).7.
Alternative Explanations CounteredI have argued that to interpret indirect identificationrequests, the apprentice needs to reason about theexpert's intent.
Alternative xplanations could be envi-sioned that would place the burden of noun phrase inter-pretation entirely on the hearer.
According to suchaccounts, the hearer would act on a noun phrase as hepleased, independent of the speaker's intended use ofthat noun phrase.
A succession of such explanations icountered below.1.
The hearer will identify the referent of every nounphrase.
Clearly, for both definite and indefinite nounphrases, this explanation is inadequate.
Noun phras-es such as "See the tapered red piece with the hole?That's the nozzle", and "We need a valve for thathole.
It's the little yellow piece of rubber", supplyfunctional descriptions or labels that cannot be iden-tified at the time of utterance.
26Rather, the speakerinforms the hearer about some future function of thatpiece.2.
The hearer identifies every description he can.
Forexample, perhaps a hearer will identify all thingsdescribed with color or shape terms, or all nounphrases with existential presuppositions.
However,this is again too simplistic.
A hearer will undoubt-edly not react to "there is a red cobra under thatbasket", by trying to identify the cobra because, inshort, he doesn't want to.3.
The hearer identifies every description he can identifyand wants to identify.
That is, the hearer wouldz5 Such examples of parallel achievement of communicative actionscannot be accounted for by any linguistic theory or computationallinguistic mechanism of which I am aware.
These cases have beenincluded here because I believe that the theory should be extended tohandle them by reasoning about parallel actions.~6 The IDENTIFIABLE precondition was posited to prevent such nounphrases from being identified.116 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationignore what the speaker intends, and act on what hethinks is both feasible and desirable.
To see that thiscannot be the hearer's sole strategy, consider thefollowing Telephone dialogue (and recall that theexpert had a set of pieces in front of him, though theapprentice did not know this):Expert: Now, take the big blue stopper that'slaying around and take the black ring..."Apprentice: \[Searches and repeats more slowly\]"the big blue stopper"Expert:"Yeah, the big blue stopper \[short pause\] andblack ring.
"Although the apprentice could be said to be follow-ing the purported reference strategy in response tothe expert's definite noun phrase, the same could notbe said of the expert in responding to the same NP.
27The expert is obviously not intended by the appren-tice to identify the piece even though he could,because he has just requested the apprentice to doso, and because the expert's having a set of pieceswas not mutually believed.
The expert responds to(what he believes to be) the apprentice's purpose inrepeating the NP, and not solely to his own desiresand capabilities.According to the above argument, the hearer cannotbe completely egocentric in his interpretation of nounphrases, but considers the speaker's intentions withrespect to that noun phrase.
28 One might still argue,however, that such consideration is quite simple; that aconversational "script" (Schank and Abelson 1977),involving the specification of the part the expert desiresthe apprentice to pick up and the assembly action to beperformed on it, could handle the data.
I argue thatbecause the script notion of role already incorporates theexpected goals of the parties who are playing each role, ascript argument supports the position that noun phraseinterpretation requires analysis of speaker intent.4.
The apprentice fits the noun phrase into the script forhis role in the experiment.
Scripts (Schank and Abel-son 1977) contain expected sequences of actions,related in some "causal chain", in some stereotypedsituation.
According to Schank and Abelson, typicalscripted situations might include birthday parties,restaurants, classrooms, etc.
Scripts are parameter-ized by "slots" that define "roles" in the variousactions and events.
Essentially, a script's partic-ipants perform the specified actions, which, havingbeen a successful pattern of interaction in the past,are already structured to achieve the goal(s) of thescript.
"Dialogue Games" Levin and Moore (1977)can be seen as scripts once utterances are viewed ascommunicative acts.I claim that a script analysis of the discourses inthe present experiment, if sufficiently detailed,supports the positions that (1) noun phrase interpre-tation requires an analysis of speaker intent, and (2)the speaker's intent is that the hearer perform anaction of referent identification.
The argument hasthree prongs: the contents of the purported script,the apprentice's inferring of that script, and therelationship of the script to the utterances.First, as Schank and Abelson have pointed out,scripts are frozen plans.
When two parties agree(perhaps tacitly) to play roles in a script, they haveadopted their (respective) expected actions as part oftheir (respective) plans.
This observation supportsboth of the above points.
The contents of the scriptbecome expected goals, and the script containsactions that each participant is supposed to play.Any specification of the actions in the purportedexperimental script will contain the apprentice'sperforming IDENTIFY-REFERENT actions as a goalof the expert.Second, the script needs to be inferred.
The stan-dard, well-worn, mundane activities (such as eatingat a restaurant) that are claimed to be captured inscripts may not apply here.
Apprentices may neverhave been in similar circumstances before (such asbeing in an experiment, or being instructed over atelephone), and thus may not have had a preexistingscript.
Furthermore, the apprentices were not toldthe script in the instructions nor by the expert(generally speaking, although there were a fewexceptions).
Thus, to the extent hat a script is avail-able to the participants, it would have beeninferred, z9 Because scripts are frozen plans, to infer ascript, apprentices would have engaged in a processof plan recognition in advance of engaging in theexperimental task, or while the task was beingachieved.This process of inferring a script yields a set ofexpected actions.
The plan-based theory of commu-nication would require that the elements of a scriptbe mutually expected and intended - i.e., that theywould represent mutual beliefs about intended futureactions.
Such mutual expectations about each others'goals can terminate the process of plan recognition27 It is apparent that the two NP's are spoken with different intonationand timing.
Prosodic aspects of an utterance are often regarded assignalling the speaker's attitude or intent oward what is being said.Thus, perhaps the speaker is prosodically signalling the "wait while Iidentify" intent.
This conclusion supports the argument that speakerintent plays a role in processing descriptions.28 The "referential communication" literature considers the converseposition - whether speakers are egocentric in producing noun phrasesfor a hearer (Asher 1979).29 No mechanisms have been proposed in the literature that can derivesuch expectations of the expert's goals from more basic informationabout he task, modality, genre, etc.
At most, what has been proposed isthe ability to use such expectations, independently of how they arederived.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 117Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationapplied to utterance interpretation.
Thus, the infer-ring of a script that contains the expert's intent thatthe hearer identify the referents of descriptions isconsistent with my proposal.Although much of the determination of speaker intenthas been precomputed, the utterance itself cannot beignored.
The results of this study show that speakers inthe Telephone condition do not achieve their referentialgoals with direct requests, as they do in the Writtencondition (Tierney et al 1983).
The analysis of indi-rection used here (and similarly advocated by mostspeech act theorists) requires that speaker intent berecognized as a function, in part, of utterance form.Possible specifications of illocutionary force are derivedfrom features of the utterance.
Indirect speech acts arerecognized through a chain of intended plan-recognitioninferences (based on mutual beliefs) deriving subsequentintended inferences that, if confirmed by mutuallyexpected goals, communicate speaker intent.One might still argue that the reasoning involved inprocessing these indirect speech acts has become short-circuited into a convention of language usage.
Accordingto such an account, "conscious" inference is unnecessaryfor utterances with conventional forms, such as "Can youdo X?"
For such utterances, the argument goes, peoplesimply "know" such utterances are conventionalrequests.
In contrast, the plan-based theory wouldappear to propose a Baroque way of uncovering thespeaker's intention.Apart from the lack of evidence that, for example, the"there's a" construction has become conventionalized,accounts of indirect speech acts based solely on conven-tion are inadequate.
A conventional account cannothandle the many creative uses of indirection (e.g., "It 'scold in here"), nor the case of intended literal interpreta-tions of conventionally indirect speech acts (such asasking a companion on a lifeboat, "Can you swim toshore?").
The plan-based theory is suited to such cases.On the other hand, the indirect speech acts that areusually regarded as conventional can be handled withinthe plan-based theory in a comparably efficient way,because inference paths can be precomputed fromsurface speech acts characterizing utterance forms (rath-er than always being derived from first principles, as vari-ous critiques assume).
"Bottom-up" derived rules can beused in concert with the more general-purpose rules,much as lemmas are used in a proof (Cohen andLevesque 1980).
30 Such an "ability is needed to accountfor examples uch as "Can you reach the hammer", thatcannot be handled by conventional methods alone (whichwould only be able to derive a request to reach thehammer, rather than as a request o pass it).Scripts are often viewed as short-cuts for more generalprocessing.
The plan-based position advocated hereconforms to the intuition that scripted situations shouldgive rise to simple processing.
By combining strong top-down expectations with bottom-up derived rules basedon utterance form, utterances can be interpreted withminimal inference.
However, because the plan-basedapproach incorporates both short-cuts and general mech-anisms for reasoning about speaker intent, the theoryapplies equally well in nonscripted situations.In summary, a script analysis, if appropriately detailedand formalized, supports the position that speaker intentplays a role in noun phrase interpretation, and that refer-ent identification eeds to be reasoned about in the sameway as other acts.
Essentially, the argument states thatscripts are frozen plans, that apprentices inferred theseplans, and that the plans indicated that the apprenticeshould perform actions of referent identification.The next section shows that the data in this exper-iment cause difficulty for Searle's analysis of referring.Furthermore, it shows that the present analysis can beextended to cover those cases of referring for whichSearle's is applicable.8 Referring as RequestingSearle (1969) has argued forcefully that referring is aspeech act; that people refer, not just expressions.
Thissection considers what kind of speech act referring mightbe.
I propose a generalization of Searle's "propositional"act of referring that treats it as an illocutionary act, arequest, and I argue that a special level of propositionalacts for referring is unnecessary.The essence of the argument is as follows: First, Iconsider Searle's definition of the propositional act ofreferring (which I term the PAA, for Propositional ActAccount).
This definition is found to be inadequate todeal with various utterances in discourse used for the solepurpose of referring.
Although the relevance of suchutterances to the propositional act has been defined awayby Searle, it is clear that any comprehensive account ofreferring should treat them.
I show that the act ofrequesting referent identification, which I term the illocu-tionary act analysis (IAA) satisfies Searle's conditions forreferring, yet alo captures utterances that the PAAcannot.
The converse position is then examined: Canthe IAA capture the same uses of referring expressions asthe PAA?
If one extends the perceptually based notionof referent identification to include Searle's concept ofidentification, then by associating a complex proposi-tional attitude to one use of the definite determiner, arequest can be derived.
The IAA thus handles the refer-ring use of definite noun phrases with independentlymotivated rules.
Referring becomes a kind of requesting.Hence, the propositional act of referring is unnecessary.3o These derived rules are akin to Morgan's (1978) "short-circuitedimplicatures".118 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communication8.1 Referr ing  as a propos i t iona l  speech  actRevising Austin's (1962) locutionary/illocutionarydichotomy, Searle distinguishes between illocutionaryacts (IAs) and propositional acts (PAs) of referring andpredicating.
Both kinds of acts are performed in makingan utterance, but propositional acts can only beperformed in the course of performing some illocutionaryact.Let us consider Searle's rules for referring, the PAA.A speaker, S, "successfully and non-defectively performsthe speech act of singular identifying reference" in utter-ing a referring expression, R, in the presence of hearer,H, in a context, C, if and only if:1.
Normal input and output conditions obtain.2.
The utterance of R occurs as part of the utterance ofsome sentence (or similar stretch of discourse) T.3.
The utterance of T is the (purported) performance ofan iUocutionary act.4.
There exists some object X such that either Rcontains an identifying description of X or S is  ableto supplement R with an identifying description of X.5.
S intends that the utterance of R will pick out oridentify X to H.6.
S intends that the utterance of R will identify X to Hby means of H's recognition of S's intention to iden-tify X, and he intends this recognition to be achievedby means of H's knowledge of the rules governing Rand his awareness of C.7.
The semantical rules governing R are such that it iscorrectly uttered in T in C if and only if conditions1-6 obtain."
(Searle 1969, pp.
94-95.
)Conditions 2 and 3 are justified as follows:Propositional acts cannot occur alone; that is onecannot just \[emphasis in original - PRC\] refer andpredicate without making an assertion orasking a question or performing some otherillocutionary act .... One only refers as part ofthe performance of an illocutionary act, andthe grammatical clothing of an illocutionaryact is the complete sentence.
An utterance ofa referring expression only counts as referringif one says something.
(Ibid, p.
25.
)The essence of Conditions 4 and 5 is that the speakerneeds to utter an "identifying description", For Searle,"identification" means ".... there should no longer be anydoubt what exactly is being talked about".
(Ibid, p.
85.
)Furthermore, not only should the description be an iden-tifying one (one that would pick out an object), but thespeaker should intend it to do so uniquely (Condition 5).Moreover, the speaker's intention is supposed to berecognized by the hearer (Condition 6).
This last Grice-an condition is needed to distinguish having the hearerpick out an object by referring to it from, for example,hitting him in the back with it.8.2 Prob lems for  the  propos i t iona l  act  accountI have shown that in giving instructions over a telephone,speakers, but not users of keyboards, often make sepa-rate utterances for reference and for predication.Frequently, these "referential utterances" take the formof existential sentences, such as "Now, there's a blackO-ring", Occasionally, speakers use questioned nounphrases - "OK, now, the smallest of the red pieces?"
Thedata present wo problems for the PAA.8.2.1 Referr ing  as a sentent ia l  phenomenonConditions 2 and 3 require the referring expression to beembedded in a sentence or "similar stretch of discourse"that predicates omething of the referent as part of theperformance of some illocutionary act.
However, it isobvious that speakers can refer by issuing isolated nounphrases or prepositional phrases.
Because speakersperformed illocutionary acts in making these utterances,then, according to Conditions 2 and 3, there should be anact of predication, either in the sentence or the "similarstretch of discourse".
For example, consider the follow-ing dialogue fragment:1.
"Now, the small blue cap we talked about before?"2.
"Uh-huh"3.
"Put that over the hole on the side of that tube...."The illocutionary act performed by uttering phrase (1)is finished and responded to in phrase (2) before the illo-cutionary act performed in phrase (3) containing thepredication "put" is performed.
The appeal to a sentenceor stretch of discourse in which to find the illocutionaryact containing the propositional act in (1) is thereforeunconvincing.
The cause of this inadequacy is that,according to Searle, to perform an illocutionary act, anact of predicating is required, and the predicate must beuttered (Searle, op.
cir., pp.
126-127).
Hence, there is noappeal to context to supply obvious predications.
Like-wise, there is no room for context to supply an obviousfocus of attention.
Unfortunately, we can easily imaginecases in which an object is mutually, but nonlinguis-tically, focused on (e.g., when Holmes, having comeupon a body on the ground, listens for a heartbeat, andsays to Watson: "Dead").
In such a case, we need onlypredicate.
Thus, the requirement that the act of refer-ence be jointly located with some predication in asentence or illocutionary act is too restrictive - the goalsinvolved with reference and predication can be satisfiedseparately and contextually.
The point of this paper is tobring such goals to the fore.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 119Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communication8.2.2 Referring wi thout  a propositional actThe second problem is that many of the separate utter-ances issued to secure reference were declarativesentences whose logical form was 3 x P(x).
Consider, forexample, "There is a little yellow piece of rubber", and,"it's got a plug in it".
However, Searle claims that theseutterances contain no act of referring (to x).
(Searle, op.cit., p.
29.)
How then can speakers use them to refer?The answer involves our analysis of indirect speechacts.
Although such declarative utterances can be issuedjust to be informative, they are also issued as requeststhat the hearer identify the referent.
The analysis ofthese utterances as requests depends on our positing anaction of referent identification.8.3 Accounting for Searle's conditions on refer-ringAssume Searle's Condition 1, the "normal I /O  condi-tions."
For the reasons outlined above, do not assumeConditions 2 and 3.
Now, clearly, a speaker's planningof a request hat the hearer identify the referent of somedescription should comply with the rules for requesting;the speaker is trying to achieve one of the effects of therequested action (i.e., IDENTIFIED-REFERENT) by wayof communicating (in the Gricean sense) his intent thatthe hearer perform the action, provided that it is sharedknowledge that the hearer can do the action.
The lastcondition is true if it is shared knowledge that theprecondition to the action holds, which includes Searle'sexistential Condition 4.
Searle's Condition 5 states thatthe speaker intends to identify the referent o the hearer.This condition is captured in the IAA by the hearer'srecognizing that the speaker intends to achieve the effectof the referent identification act,IDENTIFIED-REFERENT.
Finally, Searle's Griceanintent recognition, Condition 6, takes hold in the sameway that it does for other illocutionary acts, namely byvirtue of a "feature" of the utterance (e.g., utterancemood) that is correlated with a complex propositionalattitude.
This attitude becomes the basis for subsequentreasoning about the speaker's plans.
In summary,Searle's conditions can be accounted for by simply posit-ing an action that the speaker equests and that the hear-er reasons about and performs.8.4 Extending the analysisSo far, the IAA and PAA are complementary.
They eachaccount for different aspects of referring.
The IAA char-acterizes utterances whose sole purpose is to securereferent identification, and the PAA characterizes the useof referring phrases within an illocutionary act.
I nowproceed to show how the IAA can subsume the PAA.Searle argues that one use of the definite article inuttering an NP is to indicate the speaker's intention torefer uniquely.
Moreover, from Condition 5, this inten-tion is supposed to be recognized by the hearer.
We canget this effect by correlating the expression in Figure 5with the definite determiner, where (DONE Agt Act P) istrue if the Agt has done Act, thereby producing the stateof affairs P. Think of this entire expression as being apragmatic "feature" of a syntactic constituent, as incurrent linguistic formalisms.
When this expression isapplied to a descriptor (supplied from the semantics ofthe NP), we have a complete formula that becomes theseed for deriving a request.
Namely, if the hearerbelieves that the uttering of the determiner was inten-tional (which, of course, he does), then the hearerbelieves that the speaker wants him to think there is aunique object that speaker wants him to pick out.
If it ismutually believed, the hearer can do it (i.e., the precon-ditions to the referent identification act hold, and thehearer knows how to do it by decomposing thedescription into a plan of action), the hearer believes thatthe speaker's goal is that he believe of some object thatthe speaker's goal is that he have picked it out.
Hence, arequest can be derived.
31 Thus, for the perceptual case,the IAA subsumes the PAA.Assume that instead of just considering the act ofidentification in its perceptual sense, we adopt Searle'sconcept - namely that ".... there should no longer be anydoubt what exactly is being talked about."
Identificationin this sense is primarily a process of establishing a co-re-ferential link between the description in question andsome other whose referent is in some way known to thehearer.
However, we again regard identification as anact that the hearer performs, not something the speakerdoes to/for a hearer.
If an analysis of this extendednotion can be made similar in form to the analysis of theperceptual identification act, then the IAA completelysubsumes the PAA.
Because both accounts are equallyvague on what constitutes identification (as are, for thatmatter, all other accounts of which I am aware), thechoice between them must rest on other grounds.
Thegrounds favoring the identification request analysisinclude the use of separate utterances and illocutionaryacts for its analysis of referring, and the independentlymotivated satisfaction of Searle's conditions on referring.8.5 Searle vs. RussellUsing the propositional act of referring, Searle arguesagainst Russell's (1905) theory of descriptions, whichholds that the uttering of an expression "the if" is equiv-3, The analysis of referring in Cohen (1984) makes use of a theory ofcommunication f Cohen and Levesque (1980, in preparation) thatdoes not require the recognition f illocutionary acts.
Instead, IA's arederived as theorems about he speaker's goals.
The analysis of request-ing in this theory would state that the request theorem is applicablewhen Searle claims that an act of referring is performed, and, as wehave seen, at other times as well.
Thus, the hearer does not have torecognize each referring act as a request; each referring act merely hasto be characterizable as one.120 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationX D (BEL Hearer(WANT Speaker(BEL Hearer3 !
X (WANT Speaker(DONE HearerIDENTIFY-REFERENT(Hearer, D),IDENTIFIED-REFERENT(Hearer, D, X))))))\]Figure 5.
Pragmatic feature correlated with a definite determiner.alent to the assertion of a uniquely existential proposi-tion, "There is a unique ,~".
Thus, when reference fails,it is because the uniquely existential proposition is nottrue.
Searle claims instead that the existence of the refer-ent is a precondition to the action of referring.
In refer-ring to X, we do not assert that X exists any more thanwe do in hitting X (Searle, op.
cit., p.
160.)
However,the precondition is necessary for successful performance.Searle's argument against this theory essentially comesdown to:....
It \[Russell's theory\] presents the propositionalact of definite reference, when performed withdefinite descriptions ... as equivalent to the illocu-tionary act of asserting a uniquely existentialproposition, and there is no coherent way to inte-grate such a theory into a theory of illocutionaryacts.
Under no condition is a propositional actidentical with the illocutionary act of assertion, fora propositional ct can only occur as part of someillocutionary act, never simply by itself.
(Searle, op.
cit., p.
15.
)There are two difficulties with this argument.
First,the requirement that acts of referring be part of an illocu-tionary act was shown to be unnecessarily restrictive.Second, there is a way to assimilate the assertion of anexistential proposition - an act that Searle claims doesnot contain a referring act - into an analysis of illocu-tionary acts, namely as an indirect request for referentidentification.
However, because an assertion of auniquely existential proposition may fail to convey anindirect request for referent identification (just as utter-ing, "It 's cold in here", may fail to convey an indirectrequest), Searle's argument, though weakened, stillstands.8.6 SummaryThere are a number of advantages for treating referentidentification as an action that speakers request, and thusfor treating the speech act of referring as a request.
Theanalysis not only accounts for data that Searle's analysiscannot, but also predicts each of Searle's conditions forperforming the act of singular identifying reference, whileallowing for appropriate xtension into a planning proc-ess.
If we extend the perceptual use of referent identifi-cation to Searle's more general concept of identification,and we correlate a certain (Gricean) propositional atti-tude with the use of definite determiners in a nounphrase, then Searle's analysis is subsumed by the act ofrequesting referent identification.
The propositional actof referring is therefore unnecessary.9 Conc lus ionsThis paper has had five objectives: to develop a method-ology for analyzing discourse pragmatics; to apply it incomparing spoken and keyboard discourse; to explorethe differences in utterance function across modes(particularly in the pragmatics of reference); to evaluatethe adequacy of a plan-based theory of communicationfor analyzing discourse; and to compare the resultinganalysis with Searle's.
I shall first summarize the empir-ical findings and the theory's adequacy, and then discussimplications for computational linguistics.9.1 Summary  of  f ind ingsSpoken and keyboard-based instructional discourse, evenused for the same ends, differ in structure and in form.Telephone conversation about object assembly is domi-nated by explicit requests to identify objects satisfyingdescriptions.
This paper makes no attempt o explainwhy it is that speakers break up the referring and predi-cating functions, but users of keyboards do not.
Manyintuitive explanations come to mind - channel band-width, memory limitations on the speaker or on the hear-er, etc.
Rather than attempt more detailed investigationof the causes of the phenomena, I concentrate instead onapplying a plan-based theory to derive the coders'analyses of the speakers' intentions.Only rarely are identification requests performeddirectly.
The plan-based theory was shown to capturemany of the indirect requests (69%).
However, it needsto be extended in many ways.
In particular, the theorydoes not yet account for the inferring of expected goalsfrom analyses of the communication task, the physicalsetting, and the modality constraints.
It cannot relateperceptual actions to the act of searching for something,and it cannot capture the parallelism evident in speakers'Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 121Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationprosodically questioning referent identification in thecourse of issuing an imperative utterance.I have argued that the need to process indirect identifi-cation requests requires hearers to reason about thespeaker's intention that the hearer perceptually identifythe referents of various descriptions.
This reasoningprocess involves determining how (the bearer's perform-ing) an action of referent identification might fit into thespeaker's plans.
The treatment of referent identificationas an action that speakers request not only accounts forthe data, but also predicts each of Searle's conditions forperforming the act of singular identifying reference whileit allowing for appropriate extension into a planningprocess.The promissory note introduced by this approach is toshow how the same kind of plan-based reasoning used inanalyzing indirect speech acts can take hold when a hear-er realizes he cannot, and was not intended to, identifythe referent of a description.
That is, plan-based reason-ing should explain how a hearer might decide that thespeaker's intention cannot be what it appears to be(based on the intent correlated with the use of a definitedeterminer), leading him, for example, to decide to treata description attributively (Donnellan 1960).
Moreover,such reasoning should be useful in determining intendedreferents, as Ortony (1978) has argued.To cash in this promissory note, one needs to bespecific about speaker intentions for other uses of nounphrases.
This will be no easy task.
One difficulty will beto capture the distinction between achieving effects on ahearer, and doing so communicatively (i.e., in the Grice-an way).
Thus, for example, a hearer cannot complywith the illoeutionary act, "Quick, don't think of anelephant", because there seems to be an "automatic"process of "concept activation" (Appelt 1981).
Achiev-ing effects noncommunicatively, without the recognitionof intent, may be central to some kinds of reference.
Insuch cases, speakers would be able to identify referentsfor a hearer.
If this held for singular identifying refer-ence, then there could be grounds for a propositional act.However, we might have to give up the Gricean Condi-tion 5, which I suspect Searle would not want to do.Although it has been demonstrated that the action ofperceptual identification differs from other treatments ofreference in computational linguistics, perceptual identifi-cation has not yet been formalized in a precise way.
Aformalism should indicate when identification is neces-sary, how it relates to the performance of physical action,and how the perceptual actions that comprise it arerelated to the structure of the descriptions.
Nonetheless,I hope to have demonstrated the importance of formaliz-ing this action.The methodology of attempting to explain thediscourse analyses of two observers is clearly goodtheoretical hygiene, but is difficult to implement in prac-tice.
Care must be taken to assure that coders are notasked to make too many judgments at once (they getconfused), or to make subtle judgments.
For example,coders were not able to differentiate questions fromrequests for confirmation reliably, even though they wereprovided with formal definitions for the communicativeactions and the intuitive distinctions were clear.
In fact,my providing the coders with formal definitions may havebeen counterproductive b cause the definitions did notnecessarily mirror people's eommonsense distinctions.One lesson to be learned from the difficult experienceof getting others to "code" the illoeutionary acts in adialogue is that because it is so difficult, perhaps it is notdone by the participants.
It is certainly possible thateonversants engage in dialogue without being able tospecify precisely, using illocutionary verbs, just which illo-cutionary acts were performed.
Because elsewhere(Cohen and Levesque 1980, in preparation) we havedeveloped formalisms for communication that do notrequire the identification of illocutionary acts, it may beunnecessary to require the hearer to do so.
Therefore,empirical support is needed for the often presupposedposition that hearers must identify illocutionary acts.9.2 Imp l i ca t ions  for  computat iona l  l inguist icsThe simple communication task analyzed here involvedprimarily the performing of requests.
As such, it shouldfall within the scope of computational linguistic tech-niques.
However, no natural language system that Iknow can handle the discourse structure of the Tele-phone data.
Of course, one might be able to develop asystem that could handle just the data found here.
But,we would value more a system (or theory, for thatmatter) that handles such data because of general princi-ples it embodies.
It is for this reason that I have applieda general purpose plan-based theory.An extrapolation of the empirical results resultssuggests that if robots are to be instructed with spokennatural language, they are likely to encounter indirectidentification requests.
If their language processing isbased on inferring and responding to the speaker's intent,then intent recognition will have to be applied to the actof identifying a referent.
However, given sufficientrestrictions on the domain of discourse and the robot'scapabilities, an implementation of the plan-recognitionprocess might simplify the general case.
I have suggestedthat derived inference rules coupled with expectationscan serve adequately.
A formal foundation for suchderived rules for intent interpretation can be found inCohen and Levesque (1980, in preparation), and aprototype implementation that uses both general andderived rules for interpreting speaker intent is describedin Brachman et al (1979).Additional problem areas suggested by this researchinclude developing formal and computational models of122 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationthe generation of useful descriptions, and gettingmachines to plan reference and predication separately.
3zHowever, if given more resources, ystems hould be ableto "optimize" referring and predicating plans into singleutterances.
Conversely, systems ought to be able toreason about the speakers' uses of descriptions - foridentification, correcting previous misidentifications,attribution, etc.The empirical findings of this study must be interpret-ed with three cautionary notes.
First, the category ofidentification requests is specific to discourse situations inwhich the topics of conversation include objects phys-ically present o the hearer.
If the conversation is notabout manipulating concrete objects, different pragmaticinferences could be made, even though the same surfaceforms might be used.
Second, not all natural languagecommunication between person and machine are accu-rately captured by the Telephone and Keyboard condi-tions.
For example, conversations about the contents ofthe system's display scope (Brachman et al 1979, Wino-grad 1972) might share some aspects of the Face-to-Facecondition (especially the experts' use of sentence frag-ments to correct the apprentices' mistakes).
Thus, thegenerality of these findings will only be established whenconversations in other discourse situations are analyzed.Third, it should be realized that the indirection resultsmay occur only in conversations between humans.
It ispossible that people do not wish to verbally instructothers with fine-grained imperatives for fear of soundingcondescending.
Print may remove such inhibitions, asmay talking to a machine.
The question of how peoplewill speak to machines probably cannot be settled untilgood speech-understanding systems have been devel-oped.
Nevertheless, in building future speech-under-standing systems, it may be unwise to underestimate hefrequency of indirect speech acts in spoken discourse.Finally, I observe again that when computationallinguistic techniques have been developed based on acorpus of dialogues, most often those dialogues havebeen conducted through keyboard interaction.
However,it is clear from the results of this study that keyboardcommunication is distinctly different from other modali-ties.
In addition to differences from telephone communi-cation, a cursory examination of the handwrittentranscripts reveals that keyboard communication is mark-edly different in structure from written communication.Whereas experts in keyboard mode rarely use identifica-tion requests, writers use them frequently, in both directand indirect forms.
Furthermore, writers oftenperformed all identification requests first, and labeledeach of the objects for future reference (much as authorsof published assembly instructions do).
Keyboard inter-action, in its emphasis on optimal packing of informationinto the smallest linguistic "space", appears to be a moden See Appelt (1981 ) for a system that operates along these lines.of communication that alters the normal organization ofdiscourse.
We should thus be wary of our theories' andtechniques' coverage if they are to extended to othermodalities of communication.10 AcknowledgementsThis work would not have been possible without the helpof Scott Fertig and Kathlcen Starr, who spent countlesshours coding the transcripts.
Many thanks also to RobTierney for collaboration in organizing and conductingthe experiments.
I would like to thank Zoltan Uzhelyi forvideotaping, Debbie Winograd, Larry Shirey, and JulieBurke for helping to conduct the experiments, andMarion Hazen, Elsie Chappell, Joan Hirschkorn, CindyHunt, Mike Nivens, Ken Olum, and Norma Peterson fortext and transcript preparation.
Thanks also go to Mari-lyn Adams, Doug Appelt, Ron Brachman, Chip Bruce,Julie Burke, Martin Kay, Hector Levesque, SharonOviatt, Ray Perrault, Andee Rubin, Candy Sidner, EdSmith, and Rob Tierney for valuable discussions.ReferencesAllen, J.F.
1979 (January) A Plan-based Approach to Speech ActRecognition.
Technical Report 131, Department of ComputerScience, University of Toronto.Allen, J.F.
and Perrault, C.R.
1980 Analyzing Intention in Dialogues.Artificial Intelligence 15(3): 143-178.Appelt, D. 1981 (December) Planning Natural Language Utterancesto Satisfy Multiple Goals.
Ph.D. Thesis, Stanford University, Stan-ford, California.Asher, S.R.
1979 Referential Communication.
In Whitehurst, G.J.and Zimmerman, B.Z., Eds., The Functions of Language and Cogni-tion.
Academic Press, New York, New York.Austin, J.L.
1962 How to Do Things with Words.
Oxford UniversityPress, London.Brachman, R.; Bobrow, R.; Cohen, P.; Klovstad, J.; Webber, B.L.
; andWoods, W.A.
1979 (August) Research in Natural LanguageUnderstanding.
Technical Report 4274, Bolt Beranek and NewmanInc.Bruce, B.C.
1981 Natural Communication Between Person andComputer.
In Lehnert, W. and Ringle, M., Eds., Strategies forNatural Language Processing, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hills-dale, New Jersey.Bruce, B.C.
1983 Belief Systems and Language Understanding.
InTrends in Linguistics, Studies and Monographs 19: Computers inLanguage Research 2.
Walter de Gruyter and Co., New York, NewYork.Bruce, B.C.
and Newman, D. 1978 Interacting Plans.
CognitiveScience 2(3): 195-233.Bruce, B., and Schmidt, C.F.
Episode Understanding and Belief GuidedParsing.
Presented at the Association for Computational LinguisticsMeeting at Amherst, Massachusetts.Burke, J.A.
1982 An Analysis of Intelligibility in a Practical Activity:The Role and Relationship of Discourse and Context.
Ph.D. Thesis,Dept.
of Speech Communication, University of Illinois.Chafe, W.L.
1982 Integration and Involvement in Speaking, Writing,and Oral Literature.
In Tannen, D., Ed., Spoken and WrittenLanguage: Exploring Orality and Literacy.
Ablex Publishing Corpo-ration, Norwood, New Jersey.Chapanis, A.; Ochsman, R.B.
; Parrish, R.N.
; and Weeks, G.D. 1972Studies in Interactive Communication: I.
The Effects of FourCommunication Modes on the Behavior of Teams during Cooper-ative Problem Solving.
Human Factors 14: 487-509.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 123Philip R. Cohen "l'he Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationChapanis, A.; Parrish, R.N.
; Ochsman, R.B.
; and Weeks, G.D. 1977Studies in Interactive Communication: II.
The Effects of FourCommunication Modes on the Linguistic Performance of Teamsduring Cooperative Problem Solving.
Human Factors 19(2):101-125.Clark, H.H.
and Wilkes-Gibbs, D. Referring as a Collaborative Proc-ess.
Unpublished ms.Cohen, P.R.
On Knowing What to Say: Planning Speech Acts.
Ph.D.Thesis and Technical Report No.
118, Department of ComputerScience, University of Toronto, Toronto.Cohen, P.R.
1984 Referring as Requesting.
Proceedings ofCOLING84, Stanford, California, 207-211.Cohen, P.R.
and Levesque, H.J.
1980 (May) Speech Acts and theRecognition of Shared Plans.
Proceedings of the Third BiennialConference, Canadian Society for Computational Studies of Intelli-gence, Victoria, B. C., 263-271.Cohen, P.R.
and Levesque, H.J.
(in preparation) Speech Acts asSummaries of Shared Plans.Cohen, P.R.
and Perrault, C.R.
1979 Elements of a Plan-based Theo-ry of Speech Acts.
Cognitive Science 3(3): 177-212.Dickson, W.P.
1981 Childrens's Oral Communication Skills.
AcademicPress, New York, New York.Donnellan, K. 1960 Reference and definite description.
The Philo-sophical Review 75: 281-304.Dore, J.; Gearhart, M.; and Newman, D. 1978 The Structure of Nurs-ery School Conversation.
In Nelson, K., Ed., Children's Language.Vol L Gardner Press, New York, New York, 337-396.Evans, D. 1981 (December) Situations and Speech Acts: Toward aFormal Semantics of Discourse.
Ph.D. Thesis, Department ofLinguistics, Stanford University.Fertig, S. Miscommunication in Discourse.
Unpublished B.A.
Thesis,Hampshire College, Amherst, Massachuseets.Genesereth, M.R.
1978 (September) Automated Consultation forComplex Computer Systems.
Ph.D. Thesis, Department ofComputer Science, Division of Applied Sciences, Harvard Universi-ty.Grice, H.P.
1957 Meaning.
Philosophical Review 66: 377-388.Grosz, B.J.
1977 (July) The Representation a d Use of Focus inDialogue Understanding.
Technical Report 151, Artificial Intelli-gence Center, SR1 International.Hayes, P.J.
and Mouradian, G.V.
1981 Flexible Parsing.
AmericanJournal of Computational Linguistics 7(4): 232-242.Hindle, D. 1983 Deterministic Parsing of Syntactic Non-fluencies.Proceedings of the 21st Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 123-128.Hintikka, J.
1969 Semantics for Propositional Attitudes.
In Davis,J.W.
et al, Eds., Philosophical Logic.
D. Reidel Publishing Co.,Dordrecht, Holland.Hoeppner, W.; Morik, K.; and Marburger, H. 1984 (May) Talking ItOver: The Natural Language Dialog System HAM-ANS.
Technicalreport ANS-26, Research Unit for Information Science and Artifi-cial Intelligence, University of Hamburg.Horrigan, M.K.
1977 Modelling simple dialogues.
Technical Report108, Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto.Krauss, R.M.
and Weinheimer, S. 1966 Concurrent Feedback, Confir-mation, and the Encoding of Referents in Verbal Communication.Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 4: 343--346.Kroch, A.S. and Hindle, D. 1982 On the Linguistic Character ofNon-standard Input.
Proceedings of the 20th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, Toronto, Canada,161-163.Kwasny, S.C. and Sondheimer, N.K.
1981 Relaxation Techniques forParsing Ill-formed Input.
American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics 7(2): 99-108.Labov, W. and Fanshel, D. 1977 Therapeutic Discourse.
AcademicPress, New York, 1977.Levin, J.A.
and Moore, J.A.
1977 Dialogue Games: Metacommunica-tion Structures for Natural Language Interaction.
Cogn#ive Science1(4): 395-420.Mann, W.C.; Carlisle, J.H.
; Moore, J.A.
; and Levin, J.A.
1977 (Janu-ary) An Assessment of Reliability of Dialogue-annotationInstructions.
Technical Report ISI/RR-77-54, Information SciencesInstitute.Mann, W.; Moore, J.; and Levin, J.
1977 A Comprehension Model forHuman Dialogue.
Proceedings of the Fifth International Joint Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Moore, R.C.
1980 (October) Reasoning about Knowledge andAction.
Technical Note 191, Artificial Intelligence Center, SR1International.Morgan, J.L.
1978 Two Types of Convention i  Indirect Speech Acts.In Cole, P., Ed., Syntax and Semantics, Volume 9: Pragmatics.Academic Press, New York, New York, 261-280.Ochs, E. 1979 Planned and unplanned iscourse.
In Givon, T., Ed.,Syntax and Semantics, Volume 12: Discourse and Syntax, AcademicPress, New York, New York, 51-80.Ochs, E.; Schieffelin, B.B.
; and Pratt, M.L.
1979 Propositions AcrossUtterances and Speakers.
In Ochs, E., and Schieffelin, B.
B., Eds.,Developmental Pragmatics, Academic Press, New York, New York.Ortony, A.
1978 Some Psycholinguistic Constraints on theConstruction and Interpretation of Definite Descriptions.Proceedings of the Second Conference on Theoretical Issues in NaturalLanguage Processing, Urbana, Illinois, 73-78.Perrault, C.R.
and Allen, J.F.
1980 A Plan-based Analysis of IndirectSpeech Acts.
American Journal of Computational Linguistics 6(3):167-182.Perrault, C.R.
and Cohen, P.R.
1981 It's for Your Own Good: A Noteon Inaccurate Reference.
In Joshi, A.; Sag, I.; and Webber, B., Eds.,Elements of Discourse Understanding.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, Massachusetts.Reichman, R. 1981 Plain-speaking: A Theory and Grammar of Spon-taneous Discourse.
Ph.D. Thesis, Department of Computer Science,Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Robinson, A.E.
; Appelt, D.E.
; Grosz, B.J.
; Hendrix, G.G.
; and Robin-son, J.J. 1980 (March) Interpreting Natural-language Utterancesin Dialogs about Tasks.
Technical Note 210, Artificial IntelligenceCenter, SRI International.Rubin, A.D. 1980 A Theoretical Taxonomy of the DifferencesBetween Oral and Written Language.
In Spiro, R.; Bruce, B.; andBrewer, W., Eds., Theoretical Issues in Reading Comprehension,Lawrence Erlbaum Assocs., Hillsdale, New Jersey.Russell, B.
1905 On denoting.
Mind 14: 479-492.Sacerdoti, E.D.
1975 (August) A Structure for Plans and Behavior.Technical Note 109, Artificial Intelligence Center, SRI Interna-tional.Schank, R. and Abelson, R. 1977 Scripts, Plans, Goals, and Understand-ing.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, New Jersey.Schmidt, C.F.
1975 Understanding Human Action.
Proceedings ofConference on Theoretical Issues in Natural Language Processing,Cambridge, Massachusetts.Schmidt, D.F.
; Sridharan, N.S.
; and Goodson, J.L.
1979 The PlanRecognition Problem: An Intersection of Artificial Intelligence andPsychology.
Artificial Intelligence 10: 45-83.Searle, J.R. 1969 Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophy of Language.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Shatz, M. and Gelman, R. 1973 The Development of CommunicationSkills: Modifications in the Speech of Young Children as aFunction of Listener.
Monographs of the Society for Research inChild Development.Sidner, C.L.
1979 (June) Towards a Computational Theory of Defi-nite Anaphora Comprehension i English Discourse.
TechnicalReport 537, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Insti-tute of Technology.Sidner, C.L.
1983 The Pragmatics of Non-anaphoric Noun Phrases.In Research in Knowledge Representation for Natural LanguageUnderstanding: Annual Report, 9/1/82-8/31/83, Bolt Beranekand Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.Sidner, C.L., Bates, M.; Bobrow, R.J.; Brachman, R.J.; Cohen, P.R.
;Israel, D.J.
; Webber, B.L.
; and Woods, W.A.
1981 (November)124 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationResearch in Knowledge Representation for Natural LanguageUnderstanding.
Annual Report 4785, Bolt, Beranek and NewmanInc.Sidner, C. and Israel, D. 1981 Recognizing Intended Meaning andSpeaker's Plans.
Proceedings of the Seventh International JointConference on Artificial Intelligence, Vancouver, B. C.Sinclair, J.McH.
and Coulthard, R.M.
1975 Towards an Analysis ofDiscourse: The English Used by Teachers and Pupils.
Oxford Univer-sity Press, London.Stoll, F.C.
; Hoecker, D.G.
; Krueger, G.P.
; and Chapanis, A.
1976The Effects o1 Four Communication Modes on the Structure ofLanguage Used During Cooperative Problem Solving.
The Journalof Psychology 94(1 ): 13-26.Thompson, B.
1980 Linguistic Analysis of Natural Language Commu-nication with Computers.
Proceedings of COLING-80, Tokyo, 190-201.Tierney, R.J.; LaZansky, J.; Raphael, T.; and Cohen, P.R.
1983Author's Intentions and Readers' Interpretations.
In Tierney, R.J.;Anders, P.; and Mitchell, J.N.
; Eds.
; Understanding Readers" Under-standings.
Lawrence Erlbaum Assoc., Hillsdale, N. J., 1983.Walker, D., Ed.
1978 Understanding Spoken Language.
Elsevier North-Holland, New York New York.Webber, B.L.
1978 (May) A Formal Approach to Discourse Anapho-ra.
BBN Report 3761, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.Weischedel, R.M.
and Black, J.E.
1980 Responding Intelligently toUnparsable Inputs.
American Journal of Computational Linguistics6(3): 97-109.Wilensky, R. 1978 Understanding Goal-based Stories.
ResearchReport 140, Department of Computer Science, Yale University,New Haven, Connecticut.Wilkes-Gibbs, D. How to Do Things with Reference: The Function ofGoals in Determining Referential Choice.
Unpublished ms.Winograd, T. 1972 Understanding Natural Language.
Academic Press,New York, New York.Woods, W.; Bates, M.; Brown, G.; Bruce, B.; Cook, C.; Klovstad, J.;Makhoul, J.; Nash-Webber, B.; Schwartz, R.; Wolf, J.; and Zue, V.1976 Speech Understanding Systems - Final Technical ProgressReport.
Technical Report 3438, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 125Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationAppend ix  AInstructions for the ExpertWe are studying communication between individuals.We want to examine how an individual effectivelycommunicates a set of instructions to another.
Thepurpose of this experiment is to observe and documentthe variety and similarities among different communica-tive styles.If you decide to participate, you will be randomlyassigned to another individual taking part in the exper-iment, and to communication modality.
Each pair is tocooperate in building a water cannon pump.
You willhave been previously trained to build the pump, but willnot be allowed to touch any of the parts during theexperiment.
Your partner will do the actual building.You should be aware that your partner will know verylittle about the task.
You must be sure to explain whatthe task is, make sure they build the pump, and check tosee that the pump functions correctly.The schedule for your role in the experiment is asfollows.
Today you will read the instructions for buildingthe water pump and then practice building it.
Afterabout 20 minutes, we will ask you to instruct one of us.If there are no problems with this practice run, then youare free to leave and tomorrow you will come in andinstruct your partner.
If you do have difficulty or haveany doubts about your ability to remember till tomorrowhow to assemble the pump, then we want you to stay andpractice for at least another ten minutes.The communication will take place in one of thefollowing modes: face-to-face, telephone, teletype,audiotape, or written.
You will learn the specifics ofyour mode in the next session.
Depending on the modeof communication, you may be recorded on video oraudio tape.
These tapes will be used for the collection ofdata and not for any other purpose.All fellow subjects Will be adult university students.If you agree to these conditions, please sign below.Instructions for Building a Water  CannonBuilding a Water.Cannon:1.
Plug the hole in the bottom of the plunger with theplunger plug.2.
Insert the plunger into the main tube.
The redhandle of the plunger should extend from the non-threaded end of the main tube.3.
Press the blue tube cap down onto the main tube soit fits firmly.4.
Drop the O-ring into the tube base.5.
Fit the pink base valve onto the top of the tube base.The valve should cover the hole in the base.6.
Fit the feed tube onto the bottom of the base.7.
Screw the tube base onto the main tube.8.
Put the tube cap over the upper outlet of the maintube.9.
Fit the slide valve loosely into the lower outlet of themain tube.Using the Water Cannon:1.
Place the pump into a tray of water.
The pumpshould be supported by the feed tube.2.
Move the plunger up and down by alternately push-ing and pulling on the red handle.3.
Water will be forced out the lower outlet of the maintube, through the spout, through the air chamber,and out through the nozzle.4.
Water will continue to be forced out the nozzle aslong as you keep moving the plunger up and down.5.
If nothing happens, check to see that all parts fittightly and that the valves are properly sealed.TelephoneTalk to your partner as you would during a normal phoneconversation.
Your partner will have his/her hands freeduring the entire conversation and will be able toconstruct the pump without interruptions.Your partner will have all the necessary pieces and atray of water.
Again, the task is to assemble the pumpand ensure that it works.
Your partner does not knowanything about the task.TeletypeJust type as you would on a typewriter.
The print willnot appear as soon as it is typed in; there will be a smalldelay.
If you experience any long delays in seeing thecharacters you typed it is probably due to heavy use ofthe computer.
Please bear with it.Finally, it is possible the computer will stop workingduring the experiment.
Everything before a stopage willbe saved and we will attempt o continue the experimentas soon as possible.Your partner will have all the necessary pieces and atray of water.
Again, the task is to assemble the pumpand ensure that it works.
Your partner does not knowanything about the task.126 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationInstruct ions for the Nov iceWe are studying communication between individuals.We want to examine how an individual effectivelycommunicates a set of instructions to another.
Thepurpose of this experiment is to observe and documentthe variety and similarities among different communica-tive styles.The communication will take place in one of thefollowing modes: face-to-face, telephone, teletype,audiotape, or written.
You will learn the specifics ofyour mode on the next page.
Depending on the mode ofcommunication, you may be recorded on video or audiotape.
These tapes will be used for the collection of dataand not for any other purpose.If you agree to these conditions, please sign below.Exploded Parts Diagram of the Water  PumpCONT Ehr'r's OFair mambo"Hydraulic Pump Kitand portable Wafer Cannonbotue ~pIlio ttJl hoIcter rut)iN0I~lun~r valve~l.P, rloJt"~ I~o t't te (yellowJNOTE: l~ I z t r l  I f t  of Vllve$ h l !
bl/~'~ 13,1DDIi41~.pJungm" wi~ cap?
?~b* ~ rubb,,,' O.ring0 )outlet t~l;eSwelve p, lu~,ger|pink| plus,lml|r+ zul~fee~ ~beOt ip  no=z.J,(blu*lOut i l l  ?1ivO( rN l  IdiOI vii, re(r~12Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 127Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationAppendix B: Coding CategoriesThe following is the list of parts and their respectivecodes.
Subparts are indented on a new line after themain part.
To avoid confusion, subpart names are usedwhere needed.Par t  CodeMain Tube MTOutletl (Main Tube) O1Outlet2 02Plunger \[green end\] PLPlug PLUGRod RODHandle HANDLETop-cap T-CAPOutlet 1 cap O-CAPTube Base TBValve2 \[pink valve\] V2O-ring O-RINGValve3 \[red slide valve\] V3Spout \[elbow joint\] SPOUTAir-chamber AIR-CHNozzle NOZStand STANDPump \[as built so far\] PUMPTray TRAYTable TABExpert EXPApprentice APPSubassembliesOccasionally, subjects mention a grouping of parts to beregarded as subassemblies, which are then connectedtogether to form the pump.
The following are typicalones - what a particular expert groups into one subas-sembly is up to him/her, so we were not strict on whatare the constituents of a subassembly.?
Base-assemblyBASSM = { TB, V2,STA ND, ORING }?
Spout-assemblySPASSM = {SPOUT, V3, 02}?
Main-tube-assemblyMTASSM = {MT, PASS, PLUG, T-CAP}?
Air-chamber-assemblyARCHMASSM = {SPOUT, NOZ, AIR-CH}FunctionsThe following functions can be applied to (the right)parts and yield the appropriate aspects of those parts.So, "Bump" can be applied to the tube base TB to yieldthe set of 2 bumps protruding from it.?
Bump?
Hole?
Threaded-end?
Nonthreaded-end?
Thin-end?
Fat-endAct ionsThe following are the set of actions that are generallyused in building the pump.?
PICK-UP(part)?
PUT-DOWN(part)?
PUT-INTO(inserted-part receiving-part)?
PUSH-INTO(inserted-part receiving-part)?
COVER(covering-part covered-part)?
SCREW-TOGETHER(female-part male-part)?
MESH(hole-part bump-part)?
CONNECT(enclosing-part enclosed-part)?
ORIENT(part owards/away-from(part))?
STOP \[action\]?
UNDO(most-recent-action+2nd-mr-action+...+ last-action-to-undo)?
PUMP \[handle\]The next action makes the pump or subassembly fromthe set of pieces.
It was only coded when the expert gavean overview of a number of steps before instructing howto do the substeps.?
ASSEMBLE (PUMP or  sub-assembly)?
ACHIEVE (person relation)ACHIEVE stands for "make \[relation\] true."
ACHIEVEwas coded when \[relation\] was on our list below, but theaction that would achieve A was not mentioned.RelationsThe following relations were coded as the content of thecategories INFORM and ACHIEVE.
Appropriately filled-in with the right parts, a collection of these relations formthe goal state of the assembled pump.?
(ACCESSIBLE part)?
(HOLDING part)?
(SUPPORTED partl part2)?
(INSIDE inserted-part eceiving-part)?
(COVERS covering-part covered-part)?
(SCREWED-TOGETHER female-part male-part)?
(MESHES hole-part bump-part)?
(CONNECTS enclosing-part enclosed-part)?
(ORIENTED part)?
(IDENTIFIED part)?
(READY EXP/APP)?
(TIGHT partl part2) partl should be tightlyconnected to part2?
(LOOSE partl part2) part2 should be looselyconnected to part2?
(SEES person object)128 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communication?
(DOUBTFUL person)?
(WORKING pump)?
(COMPLETED action) implies the proposition statedas the final state of the action holds.All relations could be negated.
This was expressed as"(NOT-\[relation\])".
E.g., (NOT-COMPLETED PICKUP(MT))Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 129Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the IVIodality of CommunicationAppend ix  C: Ident i f i cat ion  Requests  in Te lephone Moda l i tyThe utterances coded as identification requests arepresented in italics.Class A: Exisential Propositionsl : And then- there should be a tray o f  water with you?1: Okay.
Now, if you'll look around in front of you,there's a little tiny red piece that is like a uh-looks likea fat  thumb tack.1: and there's this little tiny like pink plastic thing.2: Yeah.1 : Now.
There's another funny little looking red thing, alittle teeny red thing that's some-  should be somewhereon the desk, that has um-there's like teeth on one end?2: Okay.1: What's next?
All right.
See that l i t t le -  there's a littleL-shaped clear plastic.2: Yeah.1: All right.
Now.
There is a skinny urn- there's afunny blue -blue tube- it's a skinny blue tube.2: Mm-hm.1 : There is one red cap.2: Mm-hm.1 : And a funny like cylinder?2: Yeah.1: All right Now there's a blue cap that has two littleteeth sticking out o f  the bottom \[of  it.\]2: \[Mm-hm.\]J: Huh.
Okay, first thing, there's a long cylinder that hasa slightly purplish cast to it.T: With the two side hoods, yep.J: Okay.
Uh now there's a little plastic blue cap.T: Yep.J: Uh, the next thing is there is a blue- looks like ascrew cap.T: Mm-hm.J: There's two little prongs sticking up.T: Yeah.J: Okay, now there's a black O-ring.T: Got it.J: Okay.
In the green thing at the bottom, there's ahole.T: Right.Put the l itt le red \[plug-\]J: \[unintelligible\] There's a little red thing you gotta s tu f fup in there.T: Okay.
Got it.J: Okay.
Next step.T: Mm-hm.J: There's a little red thing with um prong-like thingshangin" out f rom it.T: With what-like things?J: Okay.
Now there's a clear 90?degree angle piece o fplastic.T: Right.
That-\[which fits-\]J: Okay.
Now, the next thing is there's a uh a bluething with a plastic dome, looks something like some-th in 'you'd put on uh a to evacuate.
I 'm talkingabout- it's the only big piece left really.T: Mm-hm.J: Okay.
Onto that there is a l#tle red nozzle, and thatfits on the side hole coming out of that dome.T: Okay.J: Okay.
Take the whole mechanism and stand it upinto the uh-  I think there's a photographic tray therefu l l  o f  water.T: Mm-hm.S: Now there's a thing called a plunger.
It has a redhandle on it, a green bottom, and it's got a blue lid.J: Okay.A: Okay.
Now there's a little blue cap?J: Yes.A: Uh-huh.
Now, there's a-a  red plastic piece that hasfour  gizmos on it.J: Yes.1 : Pick that up, and it has two projecting blue prongs onit.2: Uh-huh.1: And it has two holes in it.2: Uh-huh.1: It 's a funny-loo-hollow, hollow projection on one endand then teeth on the other.2: Uh-huh.1: And if you'll look carefully, one toward the blue endhas two holes in it,1 : and the other -toward the red end has no holes in it.2: Mm-hm.1 : All right.
We have another hole.130 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communication2: Mm-hm.1: All right.
Has a-uh, I mean, \[unintelligible\] has afunny projection at the other end, it's like notched.2: Mm-hm.1: -and this um cylinder-like thing, if you look at thebottom has a hole in i t -2: Mm-hm.1: Then, if you'll pick up the tube-  it's kind o f  a purplecolor?2: Yes.A: Okay.
Now take the littlest red plastic piece- it's alittle urn-J: Looks like a plug?A: stopperJ: and also pick up what looks like a plunger.
It has \[ared end and green-\]T: \[With the red end and a blue-\]J: bottom.T: Right.S: Okay?
Now you have two blue caps.S: One very small that's just a push-on cap,S: and the other one is a larger one with threads on it.J: Okay.S: Okay?
Now you have two devices that are clear plas-tic.J: Okay.S: One o f  them has two openings on the outside withthreads on the end, and it's about five inches long.Do you see that?S: Okay, the other one is a bubbled piece with a blue baseon it with one spout.
Do you see it?S: It's just round with a little point.J: YeahS: Okay, now you've got a bottom hole still to be filled,correct?J: Yeah.S: Okay.
You have one red piece remaining?J: Yeah.S: Okay.
Take that red piece.
It's got four  l#t lefeet onit?J: Yeah.S: -and on the bottom o f  that is a hole, right?J: Yeah.S: Okay?
Now, do you have a-a uh little spout that hasa 90 degree turn in it?J: Yeah.A: Okay.
Uh let's see.
Got the plunger?
That thing withthe metal part and uh-J: Right.A: -and the red, blue, and green.J: Got it.Okay.
Now, insert that entire thing- the red part o fthe plunger is your handle.A: Now take the plunger and the- the main tube-  that'sthe biggest plastic tube, and it's got a threaded endand an unthreaded end?J: Right.A: Okay, now you got a little p ink seal with two holes init?J: Yes.A: Okay.
Now you've got that uh cone-shaped-that sorto f  mouth-shaped red plastic thing?J: Right.A: Okay, now all you've got left is that little blue plasticthing.J: Right.A: Okay, on the bottom o f  the main tube you've got thebig blue cap.J: Yes.A: And it's got a- it 's got a uh peg in the bottom o f  it.J: Right.A: The main tube, yeah.
The main tube has a blue capon the bottom, and alsoJ: YesA: -a  blue cap on the top.J: Yes, right.A: Okay, you've got this blue cap on the bottom.
It'sgot a peg in it.J: Right.
Small red peg with four little red thingscomin' off it.Class B: Perception-BasedS: Okay.
First I want you to uh-  do you see small-threesmall red pieces?J: Y-yes.S: Do you see a little ring, a little black rubber ring?J: Yeah.S: Now.
Do you see a little pink plastic piece?J: Yeah, yeah.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 131Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationS: And stick it on the en-  onto the uh spout coming outthe side.
You see that?J: Yeah,1 : You see a hole?2: Uh-huh.1 : Um, you will see in front of you a bunch of um piecesof plastic.1 : All right.
And then you'll see the blue cap begins tocome down over the tube.1 : If you'll look at the bottom, you will see a projectionin that cap.2: Yeah.1: and you see the two projections?2: Mm-hmm2: You'll see three very small red pieces of  plastic.Class C: Fragments1: And-if you're still holding the top- uh the blue-theblue -that looks like the medicine cap with the peak onit?2: Mm-hm.1 :-and this um cylinder-like thing, if you look at thebottom,has a hole in it-2: Mm-hm.1: All right, this very - this very blue um like narrowlittle funnelA: Oh, let's see.
Four little things coming off it?
Nowthat was supposed to be-that was supposed to be inthe-J: top.A: - in the side.
The little red-the red thing with fourlittle things coming off  it.J: Hey, I think we're there.S: -pick it up, and in the bottom of the blue cap on themain tube-J: Uh-huh.S: -is another hole.2: And take a small blue cap and plug the top hole.1: The top hole?2: On the side.1 : Okay.2: Now.
In the cap that you plug the bottom of it with-1 : Mm-hm.J: Okay.
In the green thing at the bottom, there's a hole.T: Right.
Put the little red \[plug-\] &lineS: Okay.
Now, the small blue cap we talked aboutbefore?J: Yeah.S: Put that over the hole on the side of  that tube-J: Yeah.S: -that is nearest o the top, or nearest o the redhandle.J: Okay.S: Okay.
Now.
Now, the smallest of the red pieces?J: Okay.S: Okay.
Now where the little red valve is I want you toflip that 90 degree spout over that.J: Okay.S: Okay.
Now.
I want you to take the other tube thatnow has a little red spout sticking on it-J: Yeah.S: -pick it up, and in the bottom of the blue cap on themain tube-J: Uh-huh.S: -is another hole.A: Okay, the-the big part goes in the bottom, and thelittle part, that's what you use- uh you should fit intothe- the main tube, the bottom.J: (laughs)A: Yeah, take the red thing off.
That was the wronginstruction.J: And put the .
.
.A: That water chamber with the blue bottom and the globetop?J: Yeah.J: Hm.
(laughs) Where does it go?A: Uh, that-that-that-that uh opening in the side?J: Yeah.J: On the red thing?A: Um no, just-just in the bottom of the-you know thebig blue cap?J: Yeah.A: In the bottom of the main tube.J: Big blue capA: YeahA: Okay, now stick the elbow joint back on.J: I got it.A: Okay, now on the very bottom- the very bottom of themain tube-J: I got it, too.132 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationClass D:1:1:Nearly Direct Requeststhe next thing you're gonna look for is a uh bluepiece- it's-itS uh a fairly large blue piece, and it lookslike the cap to a medicine bottle.and look at the bottom of the tube that you should beholdingClass E: "Let's" Requests1: Okay.
Uh keep the \[?\] Let's start with apiece thathas- it's a metal rod.2: Mm-hm.1: And it has a green thing on one end-2: Yes.1: -and a blue and a red1: Okay, now (laughs) let ~ go back to the original partsthat we put together.1: Lets go to the little tiny blue cap.2: Okay.1: All right.
Now, let~ go back to that funny little redprojection with teeth on the other end.2: Okay1: Okay.
Now, let's go back to that little L-shaped pieceof  plas-clear plastic that's sticking up-2: Mm-hm.Supplemental NPsS: Okay, the other one is a bubbled piece with a bluebase on it with one spout.
Do you see it?
About twoinches long.
Both of these are tubular.J: Okay.
Not the bent one.S: Okay, I want you to take the largest ube, or actuallyit's the largest piece of  anything, that has twoopenings on the side -J: yeahS: Take the spout- the little one that looks like the endof an oil can-J: Okay.S: -and put that on the opening in the other large tube.With the round topA: Now take the plunger and the- the main tube- that'sthe biggest plastic tube and it's got a threaded end andan unthreaded end?J: Right.A: Okay.
Now, take the big blue stopper that's layingaround and take the black ring-J: The big blue stopper.A: Yeah, the big blue stopper (short pause) and the blackring.J: Yes.A: Okay, the-the big part goes in the bottom, and thelittle part, that's what you use- uh you should fit intothe- the main tube, the bottom.J: (laughs)S: Okay.
Now, take the larger blue cap, which is theonly cap remaining-J: Yeah,2: And then the elbow goes over that.
The big end ofthe elbow.Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 133Philip R. CohenAppendix D: Sample DialoguesSample Telephone DialogueJ: Okay,we can start now.S: Okay, John,you have all thepieces in front of you?J: I guess so.All of 'em.S: Okay.First I want you to uh-do you see small-three smallred pieces?J: Y-yes.S: Okay.Why don't you takethose and separate those out.Put those three together.J: Okay.S: Okay?Now you have two blue caps.One very small that'sjust a push-on cap,and theother one is a larger one withthreads on it.J: Okay.S: You see those?J: Yes.S: Put those together andseparate.J: Okay.S: Okay?Now you have two devicesthat are clear plastic.J: Okay.S: One of them has twoopenings on the outside withthreads on the end, and it'sabout five inches long.Do you see that?J: Yeah.134LabelThe Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationRequestActionPICK-UP(PLUG, V3, NOZ)PUT-DOWN(PLUG,  V3, NOZPICK-UP(O-CAP,TB)PUT-DOWN(O-CAP,  TB)RequestIdentO-CAP, TBO-CAPTBMT,AIR-CI-MTRequestlnfifIdentPLUG, V3,NOZO-CAP, TBMTInformCompleteldentPLUG, V3,NOZO-CAP, TBO-CAP, TBMT,AIR-CHMTComputational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationS: Okay,the other one is abubbled piece with a blue baseon it with one spout.Do you see it?About two inches long.Both of these are tubular.J: Okay.Not the bent one.S: No,not the bent one.J: Okay.S: That's a spout,okay?Okay,1 want you to take the largesttube,or actually it's thelargest piece of anything,that has two openings on theside-J: Yeah.S: -and threads on the bottom.J: Yeah.S: Do you see it?J: Yeah.S: Okay.Take that.Now there'sa thing called a plunger.It has a red handle on it, agreen bottom, and it's got ablue lid.J: Okay.S: Take that,and starting-insert the green end into thetop of that large piece thatyou have in your hand-J: Okay.S: -and push the green thingdown until it comes to thethreaded end.J: Mm.It's pretty tight.LabelSPOUTPASSRequestActionP1CK-UP(MT)PICK-UP(MT)PICK-UP(PASS)PUT- INTO(PL MT)PUSH-INTO(PL MT)RequestIdentAIR-CHMT,AIR-CHMTRequestInfifIdentAIR-CHMTPASSInformCompleteIdentMTMTMTPASSComputational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 135Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationS: Tight fit.J: Okay.S: Is that in?J: Yeah.S: Now,put that-snap that bluecap over the top.J: (pause) Okay.S: Have that?J: Yeah.S: Okay.Now,the small blue capwe talked about before?J: Yeah.S: Put that over the hole on theside of that tube-J: Yeah.S: - that  is nearest o the top,or nearest o the red handle.J: Okay.S: You got that on the hole?J: Yeah.S: Okay.Now.Now,the smallest of the red pieces?J: Okay.S: You see that?J: Yeah.S: It's just round with a littlepoint.J: Yeah.S: Take that and stick that inthe end of the green part ofthe plunger.In the bottom ofthe green part of the plunger.J: Okay.S: You see it?J: Yeah.S: You got it in?J: Yeah.LabelRequestActionCOVER(T-CAP MT)COVER(O-CAP 01)MESH(PL PLUG)RequestldentO-CAPPLUGPLUGRequestInfifIdentPLUGPLUGHole(PL)InformCompleteIdentO-CAPO-CAPMTPLUGPLUGHole(PL)136 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationS: Okay.Now,take the larger blue cap,which is the only cap remaining-J: Yeah.S: Do you see a little ring,a little black rubber ing?J: Yeah.S: Slip that down into that cap.J: Okay.S: Got it?J: Yeah.S: Now.Do you see a little pinkplastic piece?J: Yeah, yeah.S: With two holes?J: Yeah.S: Okay.You have your blue capin front of you?J: Yeah.S:Setting down with the twolittle prongs sticking up.J: Yeah.S: Okay,take that little pinkplastic piece,and the twoholes in the plastic piece-J: Mm-hm.S: -go over the two littlenotches.J: Does it matter whether theshiny side or the dull side ofthe pink thing's up?S: Pardon me?J: Well, one side of the pinkthing is shiny, one side is-S: No, it doesn't matter.J: Okay.S: And put it so that it'scovering the hole in thebottom of that little cap.LabelRequestActionPICK-UP(TB)PUT-INTO(O-RING TB)PICK-UP(V2)MESH(V2 TB)ACHIEVE(COVERS(V2 Hole(TB)))RequestldentTBRequestlnfifIdentO-RINGV2V2InformCompleteIdentO-RINGV2V2Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 137Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communication(pause) Kinda fits hard,doesn't it?J: Little bit tight, yeah.Okay.S: Okay,now it's covering thehole in the cap.J: Yeah.S: Okay.Now,I want you toscrew that cap onto that bigair tube that had the threadson it-J: Okay.S: - that  you put the plunger in.J: Okay.S: Now,you have the large tube,you have the plunger in the tube,you have the little redthing in the bottom of theplunger.J: Mm-hm.S: You have the blue cap on theupper hole.J: Mm-hm.S: And you have the big blue capwith the ring and the littleplastic thing screwed onto thebottom.J: Yeah.S: Okay.Now.Um I want you totake the um-okay,take uh the-now you have two red piecesremaining, right?J: Yeah.S: Take the spout-the little onethat looks like the end of anoil can-LabelRequestActionSCREW-TOGETHER(MT TB)P ICK-UP(NOZ)RequestIdentNOZRequestInfifIdentInformCompleteIdent138 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationJ: Okay.S:-and put that on the openingin the other large tube.With the round top-J: Oh,the other large tube.Okay.S: The other large-yeah.Put the tube with the plungeraside.J: Okay.S: And stick it on the en-onto the uh spout coming out theside.You see that?J: Yeah,okay.S: You got that on,okay.J: Yeah.S: Um now.Now we're getting alittle more difficult.J: (laughs)S: Pick out the large air tubethat has the plunger in it.J: Okay.S: And set it on its base,which is blue now,right?J: Yeah.S: Base is blue.Okay,nowyou've got a bottom hole stillto be filled,correct?J: Yeah.S: Okay.You have one red pieceremaining?J: Yeah.S: Okay.LabelRequestActionCONNECT(NOZ AIR-CH)PUT-DOWN(MT)CONNECT(NOZ AIR-CH)PICK-UP(MT)PUT-DOWN(TB)\[Request!
ldentRequestInfifIdent03InformCompleteIdentNOZ03Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 139Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationTake that red piece.It's got four little feet onit?J: Yeah.S: And put the small end intothat hole on the air tube-on the big tube.J: On the very bottom.S: On the bottom,yes.J: Okay.S: Okay?Now,do you have a-auh little spout that has a 90 degreeturn in it?J: Yeah.S: Okay.Stick that directlyover-Now wait.We put thelittle red piece in the bottomhole,correct?J: Yeah,on the-you mean thebottom hole in the side or the-there was a bottom hole inthe blue cap.S: On the side,yes.J: On the side,okay.S: Yes,okay?One's got a bluecap on it,and the other one'sgot the little red thing in itnOW.J: Yeah.S: Okay.LabelRequestActionPICK-UP(V3)CONNECT(SPOUT AIR-CH)CONNECT(SPOUT-- - )RequestIdentRequestInfifIdentV3SPOUTInformCompleteIdentV3SPOUT140 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationNow where the littlered valve isI want you toflip that 90 degree spout over that.J: Okay.Which way should Ipoint the spout?S: The-the spout should pointupward.J: Upward,okay.S: Which is toward the red handleof the plunger.J: Yeah.S: Got that?J: Yeah.S: Okay.Now the little-thelittle red thing fits in thereokay.J: Yeah.S: Okay.Now.I want you totake the other tube that nowhas a little red spoutsticking on it-J: Yeah.S: -and on the bottom of that isa hole,right?J: Yeah.S: I want you to fit that overthe top of that 90 degree turn.J: Okay.S: Okay?J: Yeah.S: Got that?J: Mm-hm.S: Now,what piece do you haveremaining?Only the one longbluish colored piece?J: Yeah.LabelRequestActionCONNECT(SPOUT MT)P ICK-UP(AIR-CH)CONNECT(SPOUT AIR-CH)RequestIdentRequestInfifIdentHole(AIR-CH)STANDInformCompleteIdent01AIR-CHSTANDComputational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 141Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationS: Okay.Take the entire apparatus,which should all betogether now-J: Yeah.S: -pick it up,and in thebottom of the blue cap on themain tube-J: Uh-huh.S: -is another hole.I want youto stick that remainingpiece-J: In there?S: - in that hole-J: Okay.S: -with the long piece goingin.J: Yeah.Okay.S: Okay.Now.You have theplunger in and all the holesshould be filled.J: Uhh.S: Are there any remainingpieces?J: No.S: No.Okay.NOW,insert that entire thing-the red part ofthe plunger is your handle.Insert the base of the-of theapparatus into the water-J: Mm-hm.S: -and start pumping thathandle.Draw up some water,like a hypodermic needle.J: Okay.S: Now,LabelHANDLERequestActionPICK-UP(PUMP)CONNECT(STAND TB)PUT- INTO(PUMP TRAY)PUMP\[HANDLE\]RequestldentHole(TB)RequestInfifIdentInformCompleteIdentHole(TB)142 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationpush it down.Does it indeed squirt out the redspout?J: Yeah.S: Okay.I think we're finished.
(END OF TAPE)LabelRequestActionRequestldentRequestInfifIdentInformCompleteIdentComputational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 143Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunieatioffSample Keyboard Dialogueanyone there?hellohiall right?readyokN: \[what\]B: to \[whom am i\] speakingN: nicoletteB: shall we begin?N: i'm ready when you areB: ok,here goes...1) take the plunger...and \[2)\]N: \[ok\]B: insert it into the non-threadedend of the big tube...N: readyB: fit the blue cap over the tubeendN: doneB: put the little black ringinto the large blue cap withthe hole in it...N: okB: put the pink valve on the twopegs in that blue cap...N: okB: now,put the little blue cap overthe hole in the large tube nearthe plunger handle...N: readyB: forgot one thing...use the red thing that looks likea nail to plug the plungerso it will work...N: \[you mean\] the green partB: \[capeesh\]you got it, kid...N: greatB: anyway,put the red piece with the strangeLabelRequestActionPick-up(PASS)Put-into(PL MT)Cover(T-CAP MT)Put-into(O-RING TB)Mesh(V2 TB)Cover(O-CAP 01)RequestIdentRequestInfifldentInformCompleteIdentPASS144 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of Communicationprojections LOOSELY into thebottom hole on the main tube.Ok?N: which holethe bottom one on the side?B: right.put the 1/4 inch long'post' into the loosely fitting hole...N: i don't understand what youmeanB: the red piece, with the four tinyprojections?N: okB: just place it loosely\[into the\]N: \[done\]B: yes?N: yesB: place it loosely into the hole onthe side of the large tube...N: doneB: very good.See the clear elbow tube?N: yesB: place the large end over thatsame place.N: readyB: take the clear domeand attach it to theend of the elbow joint...N: using the blue attachment part?B: right.it's already attached, so Ididn't mention it.Now,put the red nozzle over the holein the dome.N: okB: Almost done now.Screw the blue cap that has thepink valve on it onto the bottomof the main cylinder.N: ready13: stick the translucent blue standonto that very capso that the pump will stand up.LabelRequestActionMesh(V3 MT) &Achieve (LOOSE V3 MT)Mesh (V3 MT)Mesh (V3 MT) &Achieve (LOOSE V3 MT)Connect (SPOUT MT)Pick-up (AIR-CH)Connect (AIR-CH SPOUT)Connect (NOZZ AIR-CH)Screw-together (TB MTASSM)Connect (STAND PUMP)Achieve (SUPPORTED TABPUMP)I RequestIdentRequestInfifIdentV3SPOUTInformCompleteIdentV3Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984 145Philip R. Cohen The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality of CommunicationN: ok,but it won't standB: then hold onto it...N: okB: i think that that's alll.Test it!N: here goesB: well??
?N: it works beautifullyB: thank you, no applause, justmoney...sure thinganything else?nope, that's allLabelRequestActionAchieve (HOLDING PUMP)Achieve (WORKING PUMP)RequestIdentRequestInfifldentInformCompleteIdent146 Computational Linguistics Volume 10, Number 2, April-June 1984
