A Knowledge Representation Approachto Understanding MetaphorsE.
Jud i th  WeinerComputer  and Informat ion SciencesComputer  Act iv i ty  BuildingTemple  Univers i tyPhi ladelphia, PA 19122This study represents an exploration of the phenomenon of non-literal language("metaphors") and an approach that lends itself to computational modeling.
Ortony'stheories of the way in which salience and asymmetry function in human metaphor process-ing are explored and expanded on the basis of numerous examples.
A number of factorsappear to be interacting in the metaphor comprehension process.
In addition to salienceand asymmetry, of major importance are incongruity, hyperbolicity, inexpressibility,prototypicality, and probable value range.
Central to the model is a knowledge representa-tion system incorporating these factors and allowing for the manner in which they interact.A version of KL-ONE (with small revisions) is used for this purpose.1.
IntroductionOne can hardly fail to notice the flurry of intellectualactivity that currently surrounds the understanding ofthe use of figurative language.
The interest is multi-disciplinary - linguistics, psychology, philosophy, edu-cation, to name a few of the more active disciplines.The reason, which anyone writing on the subject has-tens to point out, is that the observation of naturalspeech demonstrates clearly that it is rarely confinedto the strictly literal.
Figurative language is not mere-ly an ornament of the poet but abounds in the every-day speech of everyday people and as such is a legiti-mate area of inquiry for researchers - in any discipline- who are concerned with understanding natural lan-guage.
The interest in metaphor in computer under-standing of natural languages tems from this samesource.
It is well understood that people, when con-versing with machines, can no more be constrained toliteral language than they can be expected to be longcontented, within the confines of a synthetic language.2.
Scope of the StudyThe heading "figurative language" comprises the tradi-tional figures of speech know as synechdoche, metony-my, hyperbole, personification, irony, etc., as well asthe more common metaphor and simile.
I am going tofocus here on these latter two in order to narrow myview in the hope of achieving some depth and alsobecause of a belief that the other figures may operateunder similar principles.
Except where noted, I willuse the term "metaphor" in referring to both similesand metaphors.
Please note that this does not implythat I am taking the position that metaphors and sim-iles are the same; in fact, there is some evidence thatthey function differently from one another.
At theleast, it seems possible that the distinction betweenthese two is more than the traditional one of implicit-ness versus explicitness ince there are instances ofmetaphors that sound strange when "transformed"into similes and vice versa.
I therefore am using theterm "metaphor" in a very loose way to cover the areametaphors and similes have in common (for example,the similarity in the figurative reads of John is ananimal and John is like an animal), without pausing atthis time to delve into its exact nature and ignoring forthe moment he apparent differences.To start, I will work only with isolated sentences ofthe form(1) A is (like) B.In sentences of this form, A is commonly referred toas the "topic",  the B term as the "vehicle".
Thatwhich they have in common is called the "ground".
Ina sentence likeCopyright 1984 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is grantedprovided that the copies are not made for direct commercial dvantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on thefirst page.
To copy otherwise, or to republish, requires afee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/84/010001 - 14503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984 1E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding Metaphors(2) Billboards are like wartsthen, the topic is billboards, the vehicle warts and theground ugliness and (perhaps) prominence.In restricting this study to sentences of the form(1), my motives here again are to constrain the un-wieldiness of the subject.
Of course this rules out alarge body of possible metaphorical utterances of otherforms.
Many of these, however, if confined to onesentence, could be restated in the form of (1) with nosignificant loss of meaning.
I will not discuss themhere.
I will, however, have something to say laterabout the larger linguistic context (discourse.
)The typed word, the presumed form of input ofnatural anguage to a computer until such time as actu-al speech understanding systems develop sufficiently,imposes limitations of its own on the scope of anylanguage processing system.
The most obvious is, ofcourse, that variation in intonation of the input is lim-ited to its most "neutra l"  pattern; prosodic featuresmust largely be ignored.
(A certain amount of empha-sis or contrastive stress may be obtained by underlin-ing, but the study of this should be considered sepa-rately.)
Another, perhaps more relevant consideration,is the use of a space to separate parts of what must beconsidered a single lexical item, e.g., blind alley.
His-torically, this was undoubtedly a metaphor (and acandidate for this study); today it is most probablyinterpreted as a single unit.
Although most nativespeakers of English would classify it as an idiomthrough an awareness of the written form and the factthat even in the spoken version the component partsare clearly recognized, there should be no attempt ocomponentially process such forms.3.
SalienceOne of the most useful notions for modeling meta-phoric understanding is that of salience (Ortony1979a), which Ortony takes to mean an estimation of"prominence of a particular attribute with respect o aconcept to which it does or could apply."
(p.
162.
)He later speaks of "predicates" rather than attributes"(1979b, p. 191): "A predicate can be attributed to, orpredicated of, something.
It can represent knowledge,a belief, or an attitude about or toward something."
Itoo prefer the flexibility of "predicate" and shall fol-low Ortony in the use of this term.The notion of salience makes use of the apparentfact that metaphorical statements are asymmetric:(2) Billboards are like wartsmeans something different from(3) Warts are like billboardsOrtony's explanation is that in isolated sentences ofthe form(1) A is (like) Bthose predicates that have high salience in B and lowsalience in A are the ones being considered in themetaphor.
1 The effect is one of raising the salience ofthese predicates in A.
Thus, sentence (2) is generallyunderstood as meaning that billboards are ugly, where-as in (3), those predicates that have high salience forbillboards (but low salience in warts) - for example,prominence - are attributed to warts (that is, the sali-ence is raised).
An additional requirement is thatthere be high salient predicates of B that cannot applyto A.
2My working definition of salience includes the as-sumption of a taxonomic structure of concepts withthe most general at the top and the most specific atthe bottom.
Figure 1 provides an illustration of asimple taxonomy.I define a salient predicate of a concept as one thatimplies inherent prominence (for example, saturationof color, largeness of size, etc.)
or else is definitionalin that it entails a concept's eparation from others inthe hierarchy (for example, the dog's domesticity sepa-rates it from the wolf).
My notion of salience paral-lels that of Tversky (1977) in that intensity and diag-nosticity are the critical factors, but it makes the addi-tion of hierarchical organization to facilitatediagnosticity.
3 Context, both linguistic and extralin-guistic, is of course a major contributing factor too,but it is outside the scope of this study.
The way inwhich these factors interrelate is a fertile area for psy-chological research.4.
PrototypicalityAnother valuable contribution coming out of cognitivepsychology is prototype theory (Rosch 1973, Roschand Mervis 1975), which holds that a concept maybelong to a category even if it is somewhat atypical interms of the predicates usually (typically) associatedwith members of that category.
A chicken is a birdeven though it can't really fly.
Here, bird refers tosome prototype from which chicken represents a de-parture.In terms of metaphors, there is much value in in-eluding prototype theory in any model.
For example,(4) Mary's cheeks are like apples10r tony  acknowledges that the att.
!butes may be similar, notidentical, in the vehicle and topic (1979a, p. 167).
While I am inagreement with Ortony, I will, for the purposes of this paper, makethe assumption of predicate identity.2 In testing this hypothesis  experimental ly,  Gentner  (1980)showed that salience did not appear to be a relevant mechanism inmetaphor processing.
This seems to me, however, to be partially aresult of how salience was measured and the need for a cleareranalysis of how metaphor ic  interpretat ion proceeds.
Salience,properly defined, may provide a necessary but not sufficient expla-nation.3 Conklin and McDonald (1982) have used salience as a meansof solving the selection problem in natural language generat ionusing KL -ONE as the representation language.2 Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding MetaphorsFigure I.would probably mean to most people that Mary'scheeks are round and red.
A different interpretationwould be obtained if the concept of round, red applewere replaced by a withered, rotten one or even, forthat matter, by a green one.
For communication totake place among people in a speech community, somesort of prototypicality considerations are essential.There is another way in which prototypicality mightfigure in a discussion of metaphors.
It seems probablethat the B term in(1) A is like Brepresents the epitome of the predicate(s) that are trueof A and of interest in a given utterance, that is, B isthe prototypical representative of these predicates.
(Tversky (1977) observed that the B term is the moreprototypical of the two in literal sentences.)
If thesentence reverses A and B, then A becomes the proto-type of (probably) different predicates.
The vehicle ofchoice should be one in which the cluster of predicatesis (ideally) uniquely appropriate, prototypical,  andtherefore also salient.
For example,(5) A hose is like a snakeSnakes are typically, even classically, the ultimate inlong, narrow, coiledness; these characteristics can bethought of as distinguishing snakes from other mem-bers of the category ANIMALS.
Sentence (5) drawsthe reader's attention to these (perhaps) slightly lesssalient qualities of a hose.I have intentionally limited myself to sentencestaken out of the discourse context.
One of the bene-fits of doing this is that there is considerable contextwithin the sentence itself that can influence its inter-pretation.
Consider the following pair of sentences(6) My cat's tail is like a carrot(7) John's hair is like a carrotWithout adding any context, it is unlikely that a per-son would miss the fact that the relevant salient predi-cate of (6) is shape (and perhaps color) and that of(7) is color.
Our knowledge of prototypical cats withprototypical cat tail shapes and colors and prototypicalhair shapes and colors leads us to the right conclusion.If no additional information is available, then itwouldn't be likely that John was wearing a pony tail.On the other hand(8) John's nose is like a carrotagain, taken out of context, would indicate a commentabout shape.
From these examples it should be clearthat prototypicality considerations are relevant o bothtopic and vehicle.5.
Prototypicality and PossibilityHow then, does this relate to prototype theory?
Therelationship appears to be that, in the prototypical tail,nose, or hair, certain predicates are probable.
Theseare the ones most likely to match those salient in B.Thus in order to process metaphors, it is necessary toknow, in addition to the nature of the prototype,  arange of probable values for a given predicate.
Thiswould facilitate Ortony's  determination (1979a, p.173) of "whether  any gross incompatibi l i ty wouldresult by applying the predicate in question to theComputational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984 3E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding Metaphorsconcept."
This range can help determine whether thestatement is literally true or not.
For example,(9) John's hands are like ice.If a range of possible temperatures were built into therepresentat ion for human hands, it would be knownthat John's hands could not possibly be literally ascold as ice (there could not be an actual equivalenceof temperature in hands and in ice).
4 The figurativeinterpretation would thus prevail.Prototypicality and range of possible values appearto operate throughout language as a whole; they arenot confined to figurative usage.
Labov (1973) re-ported on an experiment on the denotation of theword cup.
He gave subjects pictures of cuplike objectsto identify and observed differing percentages of theuse of cup as form and function were varied.
He con-cluded the existence of an invariant core(corresponding to my use of prototype) as well as arange of deviations through which recognition stilloccurred, albeit at lower percentages.
The inclusion ofthese elements in the knowledge representation of asystem for understanding natural language is thereforebroadly motivated.6.
Metaphors as HyperbolesAll metaphors are hyperbolic in a sense.
They seem tosay: the predicates A shares with B are in A so ex-treme that they can only be expressed by relating themto some object in which they are epitomized, that is,B.
In(9) John's hands are like ice,the exaggeration is apparent.
This is evident becauseof the range of possible temperature values known tobe actually attributable to human hands.
The sentence(7) John's hair is like a carrot.is less metaphoric (consequently more literal) in thissense.
It is possible that hair could be the same coloras the prototypical carrot, but the probabil ity is low.Consequently, the following sequence does not seemabsurd:(10) John's hair is like a carrot.Is it really that color?whereas(11) John's hands are like ice.Are they really that cold?would lead one to think the response peculiar at theleast.
On some scale of metaphoricity then, (10) isless metaphoric than (11).
Since a hose may in factbe as long, narrow, coiled as a snake,4 If John is assumed to be living and context does not indi-cate the possibil ity of frostbite conditions.
(5) A hose is like a snakeis the least metaphoric of the examples given.
Thissupports Ortony's claim that high salient predicates ofA matched with high salient predicates of B make fora literal statement.
A response of Is it really that long,narrow, coiled?
could easily be followed by an unquali-fied response of "'Yes.
'"Ortony (1975) denies the possibility of the groundconsisting merely of a single predicate.
"People sim-ply do not use metaphors to transfer one characteristic,even if it is a distinctive one, when there is a readyliteral way of making the point."
(p.
50.)
Sentence(9), however, provides a fairly good counterexample tothis claim.
Here, the hyperbolic nature of the meta-phor rather than the size of the ground provides theincentive for its use.7.
Taxonomic Structure and IncongruityThe conclusion which should be drawn from this dis-cussion is that all of the above factors must be broughtto bear in an analysis of metaphor understanding.
Theresult of using these measures will be an isolation ofthose predicates of B that are true of A and the estab-lishment of a relative degree of metaphoricity withinthe sentence context.Given a corpus of sentences of the form(1) A is (like) B,some will appear to be literal similarity statements;others will appear to be metaphors.
(12) John is like his father.
(13) John is like a snake.
(14) John is like a black box.In (12), the sentence appears to be a literal compari-son.
John shares certain characteristics with his fa-ther.
John and his father are already known to besimilar on the basis of the fact that they are membersof the same superordinate category (males) or arealready known to participate in a relationship to oneanother (father-son).
There is no element of surpriseor incongruency in statement (12).
As Ortony hasproposed, high salient predicates of B are also highsalient predicates of A.
This is Ortony's criterion fora literal similarity statement as opposed to a metaphor.I think, however, that viewing this phenomenon fromthe perspective of category membership,  relationshipand consequent incongruity will shed more light on itscomputation representation.There do seem to be metaphorical  statements inwhich there is matching of high salient predicates inboth the vehicle and the topic.
If sentence(8) John's nose is like a carrotwere uttered by one of John's friends to another, itwould not represent new information.
It would proba-4 Computat ional  Linguistics, Vo lume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding Metaphorsbly produce laughter because of the hierarchical incon-gruity but beyond this should have no more of an ef-fect than a literal paraphrase of the same sentence.
Interms of those predicates that can be shared, thosepeculiar to the vehicle's hierarchical position - forexample, in (8), a carrot's being a root crop - seemthe least likely candidates.The position in a taxonomic hierarchy is importantin another way.
Consider(15) Penguins are like wolves.
(16) Dogs are like wolves.
(16) is a similarity statement; (15), assuming an inter-pretation can be found, is a metaphor.
Figure 1 pro-vides a possible explanation: In terms of this diagram,dogs and wolves are siblings but penguins and wolvesare not.
The latter relationship is more distant, thesentence more metaphorical.
Although distance met-rics are notoriously difficult to pin down, fairly clearcases like this one indicate that members of categoriesat a level of abstraction close to that of Rosch's basiclevel categories (1973) and with a shared superordi-nate can be considered in some way closer than thosewithout a shared one.
Empirical research on othercategorical relationships may provide additional sup-port for this approach.
Although less is known aboutthe relationships in the examples that follow, sincethey no longer deal with a basic level category and itsimmediate superordinate, future research may shedsome light on this phenomenon as well.For example, that incongruity may be a factor of"goodness" of metaphor seems to be illustrated by(13) and (14).
Metaphors may be judged by the ap-parent unlikeliness of an A B juxtaposition.
This ofcourse is under the provision that the metaphor isunderstandable to the hearer.
Thus (14), if under-stood to mean that John is somehow unknowable, isbetter than (13) in which John is thought to besneaky.
The difference may be that in (13) A and Bare of a shared superordinate category (ANIMALS),whereas in (14) they are categorically more remote.Incongruity appears to be the reason that the bestmetaphors often produce a smile by the hearer as theyare comprehended.
( "How unlikely yet how apt" maybe the attendant hought.)
So there is a connectionbetween metaphor and humor, or the intelligence andwit of the speaker who first utters a good, novel meta-phor.8.
Number of Shared PredicatesIn addition to incongruity, another attribute of meta-phoric quality is the number of shared characteristicsunder incongruous circumstances.
The more the betterso long as incongruity is maintained:(17) Jane's eyes are like starsAlthough (17) is somewhat hackneyed, its survival andwide use may be a result of the fact that it is good inthe sense just described, that is, incongruity plus mul-tiplicity of shared predicates (twinkliness, brightness,beauty, clarity, etc.
).Some writers have talked of the magic of meta-phors, the idea that the whole is equal to more thanthe sum of its parts (Verbrugge 1980).
While theremay be other factors involved than those I have men-tioned above, I believe ultimately that metaphors canat least theoretically be accounted for formally andwithout appeal to the supernatural.Figure 1.Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984 5E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding Metaphors9.
Expressing the Inexpress ib leWhy do people use metaphors?
Inexpressibil ity inliteral terms seems to provide part of the answer.
5Hyperbole as discussed above is one way that this isovercome.
When an extreme in terms of predicates isunavailable to the speaker, he or she may search otherdomains (categories) for something that epitomizes thedesired quality.
Metaphor makes the difficult to ex-press possible to express.This provides an explanation of the fact that humanemotions (love, hate, etc.)
are often described meta-phorically, that is, the less well-understood in terms ofthe more thoroughly understood.
It also helps explainthe observation that more abstract concepts with fewif any high salient predicates are used for A whilemore concrete concepts (with predicates of high sali-ence) are used for B.
There are many examples ofmetaphors for love, friendship, etc.
in which B is aconcrete concept having usable salient predicates.Metaphors appear commonly with regard to peopleto express something about their more abstract person-al characteristics (personality, character, value) ratherthan the more easily stated physical attributes.
6 Thus,when searching for the meaning of such metaphors, allother things being equal, one should generally exhaustthose first.
When one says,(18) You are my sunshine,one is not attributing yellowness to the addressee butrather those characteristics that are both more abstractand possible to attribute to a human - that is, warmth,brightness, cheerfulness, etc.
If such characteristicsare unavailable or not salient in the B term, then oth-er, physical ones are used in the interpretation.
(19) Jane is a string bean,for example, makes a statement about Jane's shape.It should be noted at this point that I am not mak-ing any claims about the historical primacy of physicalover more abstract predicates (as do Lakoff  and John-son 1980).
I am not assuming (nor am I contradict-ing) the possibility that this is true.
The process bywhich it came to pass that we can now say " John is abright person" or "That  is a bright light" is not theissue.
It does seem reasonable that the abstract was atone time a metaphor based on the physical, but I don'tknow what the historical evidence is for this.
Myanalysis of metaphor is strictly a synchronic one.
I am50rtony's inexpressibility thesis (1975) deals with transfer-ring from vehicle to topic "characteristics which are unnameable.
"6 Carbonell (1981) has proposed an invariance hierarchy forexplaining this phenomenon i which physical descriptors occupy arelatively low position.
An interpretation is obtained by searchingdownward through the hierarchy and stopping When knowledgecommon to A and B is encountered.saying that this is how the language at any given his-torical stage can be perceived as operating.10.
A Word  about  ContextIn extending the context of a metaphorical sentence toinclude the surrounding linguistic environment, Ortony(1979a) has suggested that the effect of the linguisticenvironment is to raise the salience of certain predi-cates.
To analyze this notion, consider the followingpair:(20a) Look how the highway curves(20b) It 's just like a snake.
(20a) can be thought of as raising the salience of cur-viness in that sentence.
Compare this pair to(21) This highway is like a snake,that is, the isolated sentence.
The difference between(20) and (21) is that in (20) the discourse phenome-non of focus (Grosz 1977, 1981) is operating.
Atten-tion is focused (and salience consequently raised) tothe snakelike curviness of the highway.
Note howeverthat the other attributes that have high salience in (20)can also be applied metaphorically.
It is just that oneparticularly snakelike attr ibute is h igh l ighted  in thepair.The following linguistic environment is also of im-portance and(22) Look at how he eats.Isn't John a pig!
(23) Isn't John a pig!Look at how he eats.Metaphors in literature, especially poetry, representa possible limit to which a computational model mightaspire since poets are experts in the novel use of lan-guage and in explicating human experiences.
But it istrue that these sources should not be overlooked justbecause they seem to present difficult problems; alanguage understander should at least theoretically beable to understand poetic metaphors.
This poem byEmily Bront~ 7 is metaphorically fairly straightforwardas poems go and a good illustration of how metaphorsin context can function.Love and FriendshipLove is like the wild rose-briar,Friendship like the holly t ree-The holly is dark when the rose-briar bloomsBut which will bloom most constantly?The wild rose-briar is sweet in spring,Its summer blossoms cent the air;Yet wait till winter comes again7 The Mentor Book of  Major British Poets, edited by OscarWilliams, 1963.6 Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding MetaphorsAnd who will call the wild-briar fair?Then scorn the silly rose-wreath nowAnd deck thee with the holly's sheen,That when December blights they browHe still may leave thy garland green.The first two lines represent wo similes of the sortthat I have been discussing; in each case an abstractconcept is juxtaposed with a concrete one.
The re-mainder of the poem proceeds to describe the groundof the similes.
Certainly the ground consists of someof the low salient predicates of wild rose-briars andholly bushes.
This seems to expand Ortony's thesisthat high salient predicates of B are the only ones tobe considered.
Those of low salience are also eligible.Including these predicates in the context of the poemserves to raise the salience of some predicates thereader may not have even had in his/her conceptualrepresentation prior to reading the poem.
Love andwild rose-briars do make an incongruous twosome asdo friendship and holly trees.
The success of the met-aphor rests on this and on the size of the ground.
Thebest metaphors are those presented by the best poets,those in which a vaguely understood experience isclarified through the predicates, salient or otherwise,of the B terms.
Ortony's compactness thesis (1975),which allows metaphors to cause the transfer of fea-tures or characteristics as a "chunk" from vehicle totopic, does not account for this type of metaphoricdiscourse.11.
The Semantic Net ApproachFrom the above discussion it is obvious that some sortof conceptual representat ion underlies human meta-phor understanding; at some level people know thepredicates of concepts and presumably somethingabout their organization in terms of a generality hier-archy.
Our "knowledge" undoubtedly includes, inaddition to what might be labeled general knowledge,the values and beliefs of our speech community.
Al-though the computational  representat ion of such abase is a formidable task, the purpose of this paper isto delineate its nature and boundaries.
It is assumedthat the implementation of a base, in actuality, is aseparable task.KL-ONE is one of a number of extant knowledgerepresentat ion languages that allow Concepts to bearranged in a generality hierarchy with the characteris-tic that properties of the more general Concepts areinheritable by the more specific ones.
It furthermoreprovides for the Concept to be represented as a struc-tured object, allowing one, in effect, to get inside theConcept and to see its relationship to other Concepts.In this discussion, I will assume that the features ofKL-ONE are available for use in metaphor processing.The KL-ONE entities most relevant o this study areConcepts (diagrammatical ly represented by ellipses)and Roles (represented by encircled squares).
8 Thestructured Concept is the primary representationalentity.
A Role is internal to a Concept; it can be apart (for example, a hand is a Role of the ConceptBODY) or what is commonly called an attribute (forexample, a PERSON - the Concept - has habits - aRole).
I will use Roles to represent predicates as theyhave been described above.
The hierarchical classifi-cation aspect of KL-ONE allows lower, less general,Concepts to inherit structured description from thosein an ancestral relationship to them.At the topmost level are the most general Con-cepts, called Generic Concepts (GCs).
As one pro-ceeds downward through the network, one encountersmore and more specific GCs.
At the lowest level isknowledge about an individual, called an IndividualConcept (IC) (see Figure 2).
ANIMAL (a GC of ahigher level) passes down to PERSON (a GC of a low-er level) all of its Roles and the interrelationshipsamong them.
So if ANIMALS have noses then so doPEOPLE.
PERSON in turn passes to JOHN (an IC,shaded in Figure 2) those Roles PERSON got fromANIMAL as well as those unique to PERSON.
9 TheValue and Satisfies links indicate the relationship be-tween a Role of an IC (called an IRole) and its parentrole.Since the kind of knowledge necessary for meta-phor processing must include the beliefs and culturalvalues of the members of the community for which thesystem is being designed, in the representat ion of aprototype, some stereotyping is inevitable.
Thatsnakes are frightening and perhaps evil creatures is acommonly held opinion, although of course this is nottrue of all snakes.
Metaphors seem to tap these kindsof generalizations in their insistence on prototypes,and they do seem necessary for understanding to takeplace.
(24) The whip lay coiled on the ground like asnake.
108 The local internal structure of every Conoept is made up ofRoles and RoleSet Relations (RSRs).
This discussion will notdescribe the functioning of RSRs but will focus on Roles since theyare adequate to support his theory at its present stage of develop-ment.
Furthermore, RSRs are less clearly understood at the currentstate of KL-ONE's design than are Roles.
(I use the term "Roles"instead of "RoleSets" for discursive simplicity.)
Those readers whohave an interest in a more detailed description of the knowledgerepresentation language KL-ONE should consult Brachman (1978,1979) and Schmolze and Brachman (1982).9 A Concept description in KL-ONE represents the intension ofthe Concept and there is a clear distinction drawn between theintension and its extension (the Concept in the real world).
Thereis also a distinction drawn between definitions and assertions.
Myexamples will deal only with definitions.
I will not discuss issuesrelated to the definability of Concepts here.
For a treatment ofthis, see Cohen (1982b).~0 My thanks to David Weiner (personal communication) forthis example.Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984 7E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding MetaphorsANIMAL NOSENAMEDOG PERSONNAMESPEECHO0~---~VALUEENGLISHFigure 2.That the more affective (here, negative) aspects ofpeoples' impressions of snakes are of importance, andnot simply shape or the more physical characteristics,seems evident by making a comparison(25) The whip lay coiled on the ground like a strandof spaghetti.The fact that a snake might strike and inflict harmfrom a coiled position (even though many types ofsnakes would not) shows how generalizations seem tooperate.
The menacing nature of the whip is high-lighted in (24), but in (25) that aspect of whips ismuch less important.
In fact, it can be considered tobe "negated"  by (25).It should be noted at this point that one networkalone may not suffice in processing metaphors or, forthat matter, in processing other language phenomena.The existence of sublanguages i  generally acceptedwithin the field of linguistics: there are technical sub-languages for technical fields, for example.
The repre-sentation must parallel and support this phenomenon.An individual's style of speech also changes accordingto the social setting; a person surely has more thanone style.
At the least, there is careful speech andcasual speech.
In lecturing to a class, one would use amore careful variety than in chatting with one'sfriends.
I propose that there also exist sub-knowledgenetworks to support different styles of speech.
Again,at the least there would be a careful and a casual vari-ety.
Formal situations would favor the careful; infor-mal situations the casual.
The other could then be areasonable second choice.As an example, a veterinarian would have one rep-resentation of the animal kingdom for use on the joband one for home use.
The careful (or more techni-cal) one might look like an expanded and detailedversion of Figure 2.
The sentence John is an animalmight receive one interpretation (the literal one) atwork where, due to the nature of the representation(and of course the context), the metaphorical interpre-tation is less likely.
At home, the metaphorical onemight prevail.
Underlying it could be a representationlike Figure 3.
(Notice that in addition to the NAME ofthe Role (of no computational interest) there is thepointer labeled V/R This stands for Value/Restr ict ionand provides information about the fillers of a Role.V/Rs must be other Concepts.
NAME and V/R aretwo facets that Roles can be thought of as having.
)The common person may well consider him or herselfto be different from the animals (witness thecreationist-evolutionist debates).
Then John is ananimal would no longer fall into a generality, specifici-ty situation and, although PEOPLE and ANIMALS arein a sibling relationship to one another, the relation-ship is between members of categories far more ab-stract than basic level categories.
Thus, the incongrui-ty would make the metaphorical  interpretat ion morelikely.
1111 1 am grate fu l  to Rober t  D ietz  and  Loret ta  H i rsch  (persona lcommunicat ion)  for  the example  that  led me to this re f inement .8 Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding MetaphorsWILDANIMATELIVINGTHINGSRATIONALBEHAVIOR|N~NAMEANIMALS PEOPLE ~ NAMEBEHAVIORJOHNFigure 3.With metaphors as with other forms of user input,contradictions with the knowledge base may occur.The idea of a user contradicting the knowledge of thesystem raises the issue of the relationship betweenthese two.
The core of knowledge originally stored inthe base should be thought of as having been createdby an expert to be used by a layman.
Consequently,information supplied by the user should have a differ-ent status from that of the original designer of thesystem.
However, for communication with the systemto take place, discourse elements must at least tempo-rarily be integrated into the knowledge base.
12The kind of contradictions most common in meta-phors will be those involving a change in salience.
Forexample, the system may know that John is an attrac-tive guy with sloppy eating habits.
Both may be con-sidered of equal salience in this case.
If the user ut-ters(27) John is a pig,then the salience of his eating habits for this user hasbeen elevated beyond that of his otherwise pleasantdemeanor.
(This is referred to as predicate promotionin Ortony 1979b.)
On the other hand,12 Others have provided for discourse phenomena in repre-senting knowledge.
For example, see sections on semantic knowl-edge and discourse knowledge in Walker (1978) for a discussion ofthe discourse component of the SRI speech understanding system.The relationship of context o non-literal language is explored inOrtony, Schallert, Reynolds, and Antos (1978).
(28) John is a dollwould have the opposite effect.
John's being an at-tractive guy is a more important characteristic of Johnfor this user.
In the somewhat unlikely event thatboth (27) and (28) were uttered by the same user, thesalience of both would be elevated.How then can a representation system like KL-ONEbe used?
It should first be noted that in the interestof prototypicality considerations I will follow Cohen(1982b) in allowing V/Rs on Roles of a Concept toinclude an exclusive disjunction of possible values,weighted by typicality.
The lower Concepts can thenrestrict these to the appropriate ones.
These Conceptscan in turn also be ordered by typicality.
In Figure 4then, RED is a more typical color for an APPLE thanGREEN and a DELICIOUS apple is a more typical ap-ple than a GRANNY SMITH.
These rankings are indi-cated by the symbol ">" .
This representation ofAPPLE, having as it does only one Role, is of coursehighly simplified.
Here, color is restricted to RED orGREEN, where RED and GREEN are other Concepts inthe network.If the sentence(29) Jane's cheeks are like applesis to be understood, it is necessary to have a Conceptof the prototypical apple.
Among the members of thecommunity that would understand this, surely the col-or of prototypical apples is red (see Figure 4 - RED >GREEN and DELICIOUS > GRANNY SMITH).Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984 9E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding Metaphors(30) Jane's cheeks are like Granny Smith appleswould certainly have a different interpretation.In Figure 5, notice that for the concept  HAND,temperature is not terribly salient.
13 I have also intro-duced a range of values as a possible value restriction,here 3-6.
So this means that hands prototypical i tyrange from hot to cold.
In considering the ConceptICE (Figure 6), notice that it has a temperature of 7,that is, extremely cold.
Temperature is highly salientfor ICE(= 1).Figure 6 also illustrates the relationship between ahigher Concept,  SOLIDS, and a lower one, ICE.
TheRoles of SOLIDS are inherited by ICE.
In some repre-sentations they are inherited intact, but here the Re-stricts link causes a restriction of the fillers of the Rolein question.
Thus, TEMPERATURE is restricted to 7;TEXTURE is restricted to HARD/SMOOTH.13 I have provided for salience to assume values between zero(least.
salient) and one (most salient).
The algorithm for the com-putation of these values awaits further empirical results.
At pres-ent, they represent an estimate based on my intuitions..SoREPRESENTATION OF HAND(1)\[ T,~,,~,~TIIP~ ~ (2).
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
i (3)\ / (4)/ / ,  ,, .~  -Vtc.
(7)C_DTEMPERATURE:BEYOND LINGUISTIC DESCRIPTION (HOT)EXTREMELY HOTHOTLUKEWARMCOOLCOLDEXTREMELY COLDBEYOND LINGUISTIC DESCRIPTION (COLD)REPRESENTATION OF TEMPERATUREFigure 5.10 Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding MetaphorsREDAPPLEGREENGRANNYSMITH DELICIOUSV/RFigure 4.INORGANICSUBSTANCESTEMPERATURE TEXTURETEMPERATURESOLIDS NAME TEXTURE7 ~ 1  Ig----4 ICE HARD/SMOOTH1.0Figure 6..85Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984 11E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding MetaphorsWhat then would be the result of the user input(9) John's hands are like ice.Looking at a portion of John's network integrated withthe one for HAND (Figure 7), sentence (9) wouldcause one to look at the Roles for John's hands, seethat they do not Restrict the Roles of the GenericConcept HAND.
Therefore, they are thought by thesystem to be prototypical hands.
Temperature is themost salient feature of ICE for which John has a Role.This must be the Role indicated by (9).
The user hasmade a hyperbolic statement.
He or she has said thatJohn's hand temperature is inexpressible by referenceto normal hand temperatures.
Thus, to understand thesentence, it is necessary to observe that ICE has amuch more extreme value for temperature and it is ofthe highest salience (= 1).
As a result, for the purpos-es of this discourse, the salience of John's hand temp-erature is given the value of 1, implying that for thespeaker John's hands are one of his most salient fea-tures.
This information may be useful in interpretingthe discourse that follows the sentence.The incongruity that must be present for metaphorsto work can also be seen by referring to these dia-grams, particularly with regard to their hierarchicalnature.
It is clear that a metaphorical statement ispossible between members of an inheritance relation-ship(31) John i saperson(32) Ice is a solidsince these are actual statements of that relationship.A deeper analysis of human classification devicespromises to yield further constraints on pairs that canrelate metaphorically to one another.
For example,looking back at(12) John is like his father,since both John and his father share the same immedi-ate superordinate category, male, (12) cannot bemetaphoric.
This may also explain why(33) Encyclopedias are like gold minesis metaphorical but(34) Encyclopedias are like dictionariesseems to be a similarity statement.
(Examples fromOrtony, Reynolds, and Arter 1978.
)The algorithm implied here can be expressed asfollows:1.
If the topic is an individual constant (IC), establishrestrictions (using the Restricts link), if any, on theRole in question (for example, JOHN's HANDS).
If%.50Figure 7.NAME12 Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding Metaphorsthere are restrictions, note these; otherwide, noteinherited V/Rs.2.
Establish those salient predicates for the vehicle forwhich the topic also has a Role (for example,TEMPERATURE for ICE and JOHN's HANDS).3.
If the V/Rs for these Roles are extreme in the vehi-cle but not in the topic, the utterance is hyperbolic.If, in addition, the vehicle and topic are in theproper relationship to one another with respect tothe taxonomy, the utterance is metaphorical.
Giv-en that these conditions hold, raise the salience ofthe relevant Roles of the topic.We have begun the computer implementation ofthis algorithm using NIL on a VAX 11/780.
We haveimplemented enough of the features of KL-ONE toallow us to build a prototype knowledge base (in prog-ress) that will be rich enough to permit experimenta-tion using input consisting of novel metaphors.
Weintend to exercise the system with the goal of estab-lishing the correctness or need for refinement of thealgorithm.12.
ConclusionsTo summarize, I have demonstrated how metaphorcomprehension can proceed on the foundation of sali-ence, with the following modifications to the theoriesof Ortony: High salient predicates of the A term canbe those at issue in a metaphorical  (as opposed tostrictly literal) interpretation and low salient featuresof the B term likewise are of concern.
Because ofother factors that serve to motivate the use of meta-phors (incongruity, hyperbole, inexpressibility), meta-phors are not always compact, nor are they prohibitedfrom being used for a single predicate.Prototype theory applies in two ways: the B term isgenerally chosen as prototypical of certain predicates;the real-world representative of the B term is a proto-typical member of its class.In my utilization of KL-ONE, I have allowed for arange of possible values in the value restriction facetand introduced salience as a role facet.
I have alsodemonstrated the need for sub-knowledge networks indealing with metaphors and other natural languageissues.13.
The Large Scope of ThingsAlthough this approach to natural language andknowledge representation has been from the point ofview of metaphors, it seems clear that at least some ofthe factors operating in metaphor understanding oper-ate in literal language as well.
There is undoubtedly arelationship between salience raising in metaphors andthe resultant effect on discourse and focus of atten-tion.
In fact, salience raising undoubtedly contributesto focusing.
I have only dealt lightly with discourseproblems and recognize these as crucial to all languageunderstanding, whether the language be literal or fig-urative.It should be noted that the approach I have takenignores the possibility of considering metaphors asanalogies.
Since many are not analogies, I will savethat for future work.
That they exist is clear:(35) Giraffes are like skyscrapersis somewhat more complicated to understand(computationally speaking) than many of the ones Ihave used in this discussion because it involves rela-tionships among Roles and not Roles simply.
(Giraffes are the tallest animals, skyscrapers are thetallest buildings.)
Also, clearly, some analogies andsome metaphors are instructional (Ortony 1975).
(37) The structure of an atom is like the structure ofthe solar system.These appear to be used in building the representationof a new concept (here, atoms).
I have dealt hereonly with representations of existing concepts.
14In addition, I have chosen to develop a method thatcould be applied to handling novel metaphors as op-posed to those recognized by Lakof f  and Johnson(1980) as general metaphors.
A system could bemade more efficient by utilizing a technique such asCarbonel l  (1981) has described for recognizing thelatter whenever they occur and incorporating my pro-posals elsewhere.Finally, as in the case of literal language, it is es-sential to study recordings of natural speech to seewhat people actual ly  say.
In metaphors as elsewhere,there will be many surprises.AcknowledgmentsI 'd like to thank Ralph Weischedel, Michael Freeman,and Genevieve Berry-Rogghe for reading and com-menting on an earlier draft of this paper.ReferencesAnderson, R.C.
and Ortony, A.
1975 On Putting Applies intoBottles - A Problem of Polysemy.
Cognitive Psychology 7:167-180.Brachman, R.J. 1977 A Structural Paradigm for RepresentingKnowledge.
Ph.D. thesis.
Harvard University, Cambridge,Massachusetts.Brachman, R.J. 1978 Theoretical Studies in Natural LanguageUnderstanding.
Annual Report, 1 May 1977 to 30 April 1978;BBN Report No.
3888 (September).
Bolt Beranek and New-man, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.Brachman, R.J. 1979 On the Epistemological Status of SemanticNetworks.
In: Findler, N.V., Ed., Associative Networks: Repre-sentation and Use of Knowledge by Computers.
Academic Press,New York, New York: 3-50.Carbonell, J.G.
1980 Metaphor - a Key to Extensible SemanticAnalysis.
In Proceedings of the 18th Annual Meeting for theAssociation for Computational Linguistics and Parasession on14 Ortony (1979b, p. 199) recognizes the distinction in termsof "predicate promotion" versus "predicate introduction".Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984 13E.
Judith Weiner A Knowledge Representation Approach to Understanding MetaphorsTopics in Interactive Discourse, June 19-22, 1980.
University ofPennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: 17-21.Carbonell, J.G.
1982 Metaphor: An Inescapable Phenomenon iNatural Language Comprehension.
In: Lehnert, W. and Ringle,U., Eds., Strategies for Natural Language Processing.
LawrenceErlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, New Jersey: 415-434.Cohen, B.
1982a A Knowledge Representation Model of Proto-type Theory.
In: Schmolze, J.G.
and Brachman, R.J., Eds.,Proceedings of the 1981 KL-ONE Workshop.
BBN Report No.4842 (June).
Bolt Beranek and Newman, Inc., Cambridge,Massachusetts: 124-127.Cohen, B.
1982b Understanding Natural Kinds.
Ph.D. Thesis.Stanford University, Stanford, California.Conklin, E.J.
and McDonald, D.D.
1982 Salience: The Key to theSelection Problem in Natural Language Generation.
In Proceed-ings of the 20th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, 16-18 June 1982.
University of Toronto,Toronto, Canada: 129-135.Gentner, D. 1980 Studies of Metaphor and Complex Analogies.Paper presented at the APA Symposium on Metaphor as Proc-ess.Gentner, D. 1981 Are Scientific Analogies Metaphors?
In: Miall,D.S., Ed., Metaphor: Problems and Perspectives.
Harvester Press,Ltd., Brighton, Sussex, England.Grosz, B.J.
1977 The Representation a d Use of Focus in DialogUnderstanding.
Ph.D. dissertation.
University of California atBerkeley, Berkeley, California.Grosz, B.J.
1981 Focusing and Description in Natural LanguageDialogues.
In: Joshi, A.; Webber, B.; and Sag, I., Eds., Ele-ments of Discourse Understanding.
Cambridge University Press,New York, New York.Haynes, F. 1975 Metaphor as Interactive.
Educational Theory25(3): 272-277.Labov, W. 1973 The Boundaries of Words and their Meanings.In: Bailey, C.J.N.
and Shuy, R.W., Eds., New Ways of AnalyzingVariation in English.
Georgetown University Press, Washington,D.C.
: 340-373.Lakoff, G. and Johnson, M. 1980 Metaphors We Live By.
Universi-ty of Chicago Press, Chicago, Illinois.Ortony, A.
1975 Why Metaphors Are Necessary and Not JustNice.
Educational Theory 25(1): 45-53.Ortony, A.
1979a Beyond Literal Similarity.
Psychological Review86(3): 161-179.Ortony, A.
1979b The Role of Similarity in Similes and Meta-phors.
In: Ortony, A., Ed., Metaphor and Thought.
CambridgeUniversity Press, New York, New York.Ortony, A.; Reynolds, R.E.
; and Arter, J.A.
1978 Metaphor:Theoretical and Empirical Research.
Psychological Bulletin(September) :919-943.Ortony, A.; Schallert, D.L.
; Reynolds, R.E.
; and Antos, S.J.
1978Interpreting Metaphors and Idioms: Some Effects of Context onComprehension.
Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior17: 465-477.Rosch, E.H. 1973 On the Internal Structure of Perceptual andSemantic Categories.
In: Moore, T.E., Ed., Cognitive Develop-ment and the Acquisition of Language.
Academic Press, NewYork, New York: 111-144.Rosch, E. and Mervis, C.B.
1975 Family Resemblances: Studies inthe Internal Structure of Categories.
Cognitive Psychology 7:573-605.Rumelhart, D.E.
and Ortony, A.
1977 The Representation ofKnowledge in Memory.
In: Anderson, R.C.
; Spiro, R.J.; andMontague, W.E., Eds., Schooling and the Acquisition ofKnowledge.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, NewJersey: 99-135.Schomlze, J.G.
and Brachman, R.J. 1982 Summary of the KL-ONE Language.
In: Schmolze, J.G.
and Brachman, R.J., Eds.,Proceedings of the 1981 KL-ONE Workshop.
BBN Report No.4842 (June).
Bolt Beranek and Newman, Inc., Cambridge,Massachusetts: 233-260.Tversky, A.
1977 Features of Similarity.
Psychological Review84(4) 327-352.Verbrugge, R.R.
1980 Transformations in Knowing: A RealistView of Metaphor.
In: Honeck, R.P.
and Hoffman, R.R., Eds.,Cognition and Figurative Language.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associ-ates, Hillsdale, New Jersey: 87-125.Walker, D.E., Ed.
1978 Understanding Spoken Language.
ElsevierNorth-Holland, Inc., New York, New York.Weiner, E.J.
1982 Using KL-ONE to Understand Metaphors.
In:Schmolze, J.G.
and Brachman, R.J., Eds., Proceedings of  the1981 KL-ONE Workshop.
BBN Report No.
4842 (June).
BoltBeranek and Newman, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts: 194-197.Weiner, E.J.
1983 The Role of the Knowledge Network in theComputational Processing of Non-literal Language.
In Proceed-ings of the International Conference on Data Bases in the Humani-ties and Social Sciences.
(in press)Williams, O., Ed.
1963 The Mentor Book of Major British Poets.The New American Library, Inc., New York, New York.14 Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Number 1, January-March 1984
