On Two Recent At tempts  to Show thatEnglish Is Not a CFL 1Geoffrey K. PullumUniversity of CaliforniaSanta Cruz, CA 95064Many of the purported emonstrations of the non-CF-nessof various languages that have appeared over the pasttwenty-five years (reviewed in Pullum and Gazdar 1982)have been replete with both mathematical errors andempirical shortcomings?
In the wake of the renewed inter-est in the parsability of natural languages parked by thework of Gerald Gazdar and others (see Gazdar 1981,1982), it has become somewhat more important tolinguists to attempt o determine at least whether English- the most studied language in the era of generative gram-mar and the primary focus for natural anguage processingefforts - is context-free (CF) or not.
The availability of avast fund of information about efficient parsing of CFlanguages (CFLs) that could in principle be put to work onparsing English is enticing, and the idea that English andother natural languages might be a small proper subset ofsuch a constrained and mathematicallY well-understoodproper subset of the recursively enumerable sets is highlyappealing.
Chomsky (1981 : 233-234) has denied this, butthe denial is something of a volte face, for in an earlierpublication (1974: 48) he remarked:?
.
.
the theory of phrase structure grammar (PSG) wasmethodologically preferable to transformation grammar(TG) .
.
.
.
PSG is both simpler, more homogeneous, andmore restrictive, narrower in the range of permitted gram-mars, than TG.Among those who believe that English does not in factlie within the CFLs, greater effort has recently been putinto searching for subsets of English that appear to showcrucially non-CF properties, and the mathematical workneeded to support an argument for non-CF-ness has beenconducted with much greater igor than heretofore.
Twoentirely new arguments on the topic have recentlyappeared: one by Postal and Langendoen (in this issue)and one by Higginbotham (1984).
In both, the mathemat-ical side of the argument seems sound, great care havingbeen taken to present all the necessary steps in the proQfoffered.
In this paper, I shall briefly examine the claimsthey make.
My conclusion with regard to each is that theyfail to make their casd because closer attention reveals thattheir empirical claims about English are incorrect.
More-over, both arguments concern anaphora, and both fail inways related to that concern.1.
Postal and kangendoen on Sluicing ClausesPostal and Langendoen (henceforth P&L) argue asfollows?
Consider the class of English sentences meetingthe schemaJoe discussed some X but WHICH Yis unknown.The capitalization indicates contrastive stress on which,and Y is anaphorically de-stressed by virtue of referenceback to X.
Such examples are called "Sluicing" sentences(the sense suggests that, in "transformational terms, anadditional clause Joe discussed has been "sluiced" awayfrom the position following which Y).
P&L's claim is that,if this schema is filled out with English compound nounsfrom the regular setI I am grateful to Barbara Partee and Ray Perrault for useful discussions,and to Terry Langendoen and Paul Postal for providing me with a copy oftheir paper before its publication.2 They continue to be cited and elaborated upon nonetheless, and state-ments still standardly appear in the literature of linguistics to the effectthat context-free parsing cannot be used for natural languages; ee Rich(183: 314-315) for yet another ecent example.
Gazdar (1983) providesa literature review of the topic.3 A refinement of the context of discussion which l will ignore here is thatthese authors have argued that natural languages contain sentences ofinfinite length (e.g., infinite coordinations, see Langendocn and Postal(1984)), which means they are not recursively enumerable, and not evensets.
From this perspective, the present discussion concerns those propersubparts of natural anguages that contain just finite-length sentences.Copyright 1985 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee'all or part of this material is granted provided that thecopies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the CL refcrcnce and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
To copy otherwise, orto republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/84/030182-05503.00182 Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1984Geoffrey K. Pullum On Two Recent Attempts to Show that English Is Not a CFLbourbon (hater + lover)*in the positions X and Y, a sentence will be obtained if andonly if an exact string match obtains between X and Y.That is, strings like ( la) are grammatical but those like(lb) are not, according to P&L.la.
Joe discussed some bourbon-lover-hater but WHICHbourbon-lover-hater is unknown.b.
*Joe discussed some bourbon-lover hater but WHICHbourbon-lover-lover is unknown.If this is true, and if the set of compound nouns such asbourbon-lover-hater (hater of those who love bourbon),bourbon-lover-hater-hater (hater of those who hate bour-bon lovers), and so forth, is infinite (which seems reason-able to me), then, as they show, there is a simple argumentfrom intersection with a regular set to obtain a stringcopying (xx) language, and the conclusion is that Englishis not CF.The flaw in this argument is subtle, and has to do withthe relation between sentence syntax and discourse struc-ture.
Note first that the "Sluicing" construction illus-trated by sentences like Joe discussed some bourbon-loverbut I don't know which bourbon lover is not exclusivelyintrasentential.
Dialogs like the following are encount-ered:2A: Joe has been blaming the fracas last night on acertain well-known bourbon-lover.B: Oh really?
1 can't imagine WHICH bourbon-lover.Notice that in such discourses, B can interpolate addi-tional sentences before the one containing thewhich-phrase, provided the thread of the anaphoricconnection is not thereby made opaque:3A: Joe has been blaming the fracas last night on acertain well-known bourbon-lover.B: Oh really?
You surprise me.
I can't guess WHICHbourbon-lover.Now notice that the interpolated material may even beconjoined on the beginning of the clause containing theanaphoric which:4A: Joe has been blaming the fracas last night on acertain well-known bourbon-lover.B: Oh really?
I 'm fairly well acquainted with the peopleinvolved, but 1 can't guess WHICH bourbon-lover.This possibility spells the downfall of the empirical side ofP&L's argument.
By careful context construction, we canget extremely close to a legitimate context of use for exact-ly the sort of sentences that they rule out.
Consider thisdiscourse:5A: It looks like they're going to appoint another bour-bon-hater as Chair of the Liquor PurchasingCommittee.B: Yes-even though Joe nominated some bourbon-lov-ers; but WHICH bourbon-hater is still unknown.\The approach is close enough for the failure of the argu-ment to be clearly seen; it is permissible for the antecedentof the anaphorically de-stressed constituent in aconstruction of this type to be in a previous entence in thediscourse, and for the anaphor relation to hold across anintervening conjunct with arbitrary content.
There is noreason in principle why a clause like which bourbon-hateris unknown should not have a conjoined clause like Joediscussed some bourbon-lover intervening between it andthe antecedent for its anaphoric reference, and the sameholds for all other choices of compound noun.
The syntaxof English does not demand that the immediately preced-ing clause contain the antecedent for the anaphoricrelationship that holds here, any more than it demandsthat the most recent noun phrase in the current sentenceshould be the antecedent for a pronoun - notice that shecan mean Julia in a discourse like (6):6.
I've decided to appoint Julia.
Mary wanted me tochoose Kathy, but I 'm sticking by my decision.
She'lldo a great job.Hence sentences on the patternJoe discussed some X but WHICH Yis unknown.are grammatical whether X matches Y or not (though ifnot, then Y will not be taken as anaphorically related to Xin this construction).
This means that P&L have no argu-ment for the non-CF-ness of English.2.
H igg inbotham on such that c lausesHigginbotham (1984) argues that English can be shown tobe non-CF on the basis of the such that relative clauseconstruction.
This type of clause, he claims, is constrainedto contain a pronoun anaphorically bound to the head.Thus he regards phrases as the woman such that she left asgrammatical  but the man such that I saw Mary asungrammatical.
Because of this, he reasons, the inter-section of the regular languageL = the woman such that (the man such that)* she(gave (this + him) to (this + him))* left is herewith English is the following language, to be referred to asA:{the woman such that (the man such that) n she((gave llim to him) + (gave him to this) + (gave thisto him) + (gave this to this)) n left is here \[ n > 0,and, reading from left to right, the number of occur-rences of this never exceeds by more than 1 thenumber of occurrences of him}This is shown to be non-CF by a direct application ofOgden's Lemma, hence showing that English is non-CF.Higginbotham approaches his task with much morerigor and detail than has been customary in the linguisticliterature.
But as with the P&L argument, the flaws lie inComputational Linguistics, Volume 10, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1984 183Geoffrey K. Pullum On Two Recent Attempts to Show that English Is Not a CFLthe attention to detailed description of English, and more-over, relate to the treatment of anaphora.
InHigginbotham's argument, it is crucial that English allowsas a noun phrase any string of the formthe N such that zwhere "z is an ordinary English declarative sentence thatcontains an occurrence of a third-person pronoun that doesnot have to be taken as having its antecedent within z" and"N is any noun that agrees properly with the pronoun innumber and gender".
But it also crucial that only if thereis such an unbound and properly agreeing pronoun in z isthe string a grammatical noun phrase.
The latter assump-tion is plainly false.
Consider this example:7.
Over many years, it has become clear that Lee andSandy were just one of those couples such that peoplealways reported loving her but hating him.This contains a noun phrase of the form "Det .
.
.
N suchthat z" where z contains no pronoun bound to the headnoun (couples); yet it seems fully grammatical.In Pullum (forthcoming) I give many more examples,varying the head nouns through a considerable range.
Iwill not repeat all of them here, but lest anyone shouldthink that I am using solely my own judgments here as thecrucial evidence in a case of disputed data, let me pointout that examples of the relevant sort can be adduced fromthe written English of other speakers through the writtenhistory of English.
For example, a colleague found thefollowing sentence in a manuscript under anonymousreview for publication:8.
Modern linguistic theory makes crucial use of gram-matical categories like 'verb', 'noun', 'subject', and'object', such that theories of universal grammar eferto languages as being SVO, VSO, SOV, etc.And in the prose of G. O. Trevelyan (1876: 137) one mayfind the following very stylish example:9.
On the 20th of February the House of Commons wascalled upon to express its gratitude to the Governor-General; and a debate ensued, in which the speechesfrom the front Opposition bench were as good as couldbe made by statesmen, who had assumed an attitudesuch that they could not very well avoid being eitherinsincere or ungracious.There is no pronoun referring back to the head noun atti-tude here, so it does not conform to the constraint hat iscrucial to Higginbotham's argument.Surprisingly, Higginbotham knows that sentences ofthis general sort exist, for he sites the following two nounphrases in his first footnote:10a.
every triangle such that two sides are equalb.
the number system such that 2 and 3 make 5and addresses the issue of how they are to be distinguishedfrom examples he counts as ill-formed, such as1 la.
every book such that it rainsb.
the man such that I saw MaryHe considers but dismisses the possibility that "all of theseexamples are grammatical NPs, although \[those in (11)\]are not interpretable in any natural way, perhaps owing tothe irrelevance of the sentence following 'such that' to thecontent of the head noun".
His argument is as follows.First, the sentence following 'such that', even in cases like\[those in (10)\], is in fact never interpreted as closed; rath-er, it is interpreted, where possible, as elliptical for asentence that is not merely relevant o the content of thehead noun, but further supplies a place into which bindingis possible?
Thus, \[(10a) and (10b)\] are intuitively takenas elliptical for (iii) and (iv), respectively:(iii) every triangle such that two sides of it are equal(iv) the number system such that 2 and 3 make 5thereinTheir mode of interpretation, then, not only is consistentwith, but further supports, the premise mployed in thisarticle.Higginbotham is apparently committed to the view thatany sentence violating his alleged constraint will be purelyan elliptical version of a longer one that observes it byvirtue of containing a prepositional phrase with a pronomi-nal NP that acts as a bound variable.
But with examples lhave cited, it does not even seem possible to insert extraprepositional phrases to force them to have the bound vari-able pronouns that Higginbotham's generalizationdemands.Moreover, even if it were possible to embellish theseexamples with prepositional phrases to carry bound vari-able pronouns, this would be irrelevant o the matter athand, since the claim at issue is about sets of strings, nottheir interpretations.
The claim that the sentences are"taken as elliptical" is completely irrelevant.
They are nomore elliptical than Kennedy was assassinated, which lacksan agentive phrase by someone which semantically wemight argue to be "taken" to be there.Higginbotham goes on to remark that?
.
.
there is nothing semantically odd about sentences thatuse NPs of the sort shown in \[(11)\]; for instance, (v),whose subject is \[(lla)\], would, if grammatical, belogically equivalent to (vi):(v) every book such that it rains is on the table(vi) either every book is on the table, or it does not rainHence the elliptical character of \[(10)\], and similar exam-ples, is a fact of grammar, for which the alternativesuggestion provides no explanation.Here Higginbotham recognized that there is no principleof logic that dictates uninterpretability, even for thebizarre cases in (11).
We can assume that a noun likebook denotes a set and a such that clause attached to it tomake an N t denotes a condition that has to be satisfied byelements of the denoted set if they are to qualify asmembers of the denotation of the N r. In a bizarre case like184 Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1984Geoffrey K. Pullum On Two Recent Attempts to Show that English Is Not a CFL(1 la), the condition, if true, does not restrict the deno-tation of the head noun at all.
In a less bizarre case likethe woman such that she left, if the pronoun she is bound tothe head noun woman, only a woman who left can belongto the denotation of the phrase woman such that she left.In interesting cases such as  (10a), the condition is vague:two sides are equal could be true in many ways (the trian-gle is isosceles; the triangle is equilateral; the triangle isscalene but two sides of a previously mentioned quadrila-teral are equal; the two sides in a recently discussed hock-ey game are equal in their scores; and so on).
Naturally,some of these are much more likely and plausible thanothers in typical contexts, but clearly the vacuous-condi-tion interpretations are consistent with the more likelyones.In the most interesting cases, those like (7), the suchthat clause suggests a constraint on the denotation set ofthe head noun without explicitly giving it in the syntax.
Incouple such that people always report loving her but hatinghim, the such that clause refers to a lovable female and adetestable male but does not specify grammatical roles forthese individuals exterior to the clause.
The pair arereferred to, however, in a such that clause attached to thenoun couple, which, pragmatically, provides us with aninferred him and her to allow for the interpretation of thesuch that clause people always report loving her but hatinghim as a restriction on the reference of the noun couple.There is no plausibility to an account hat forces this prag-matic fact into the syntax by postulating an abstractprepositional phrase to contain a suitable bound variable(*couple such that people always report loving her buthating him \[of it~them\]).
And even if there were, thiswould not bear on establishing the non-CF-ness of Englishgiven that the phrase in question is not required to appearin the string.
Higginbotham is exactly right about thesemantically unexceptional character of the cases in whichthe such that clause fails to restrict the denotation set ofthe head noun other than trivially, but that is preciselywhat shows he is wrong about the grammatical basis of therestriction condition.Higginbotham's argument fails, then, because, giventhe evidence above that such that clauses do not have tocontain pronouns bound to their heads, we can see that thecondition regarding the relative numbers of occurrences ofthe words him and this in set .4 does not have to be met bymembers of the regular set L in order for them to qualifyfor inclusion within English.
English contains not onlystrings like (12a) but also strings like (12b).12a.
The man such that the man such that she gave thisto him gave him to this left.b.
The man such that the man such that she gave thisto him gave this to this left.Both of these, being double center-embedded, are prohib-itively hard to process or to contextualize, of course, butwe do not operate in such matters by attempting to rendernaive judgments of acceptability on extreme cases.
Rath-er, given a clear picture of what generalizations are opera-tive in more natural cases, we apply the familiarmethodology of generative grammar and extend thosegeneralizations to the cases where unaided intuition wouldfail.I f  the count of him instances relative to this instancesdoes not have to be maintained, then plainly there is noproof of non-CF-ness, since a context-free grammar isreadily able to keep track of the number of the man suchthat sequences relative to the number of gave NP to NPsequences.
It is only the additional burden of keeping thehim~this count that allows for a proof that A is non-CFand thus that English is.3.
ConclusionI think there are lessons to be learned from this admittedlynegative review.
It is clear that linguists have notsucceeded in developing strong and predictive theories ofwhat belongs to the domain of syntax and what belongs tosemantics.
Rather than attempting to discern the status ofeach new fact as it becomes crucial to some dispute, weought to be developing eneral theories of language fromwhich the correct conclusions follow in a principled way.Notice, in the present context, that both the arguments Ihave reviewed relate to the topic of anaphora.
In bothcases, I have presented evidence against the assumptionthat certain anaphoric elements are syntacticallyconstrained to be identical and clausally adjacent o theirantecedents (section 1) or to be present in the string(section 2).
I suspect that it is generally true thatanaphoric devices that can be controlled across sentenceboundaries in discourse are never subject to any intrasen-tential constraint on identity or overt presence.
As thingsstand, however, this is nothing more than a hunch.
Oneconclusion we can draw from the present discussion is thatwe are in need of a general and widely accepted theory ofthe syntax and semantics of anaphoric devices.
4A second conclusion I would draw is that it is time tostart applying to semantically interpreted linguisticsystems the kind of mathematical nalysis that so far ismostly conducted with regard to stringsets.
We knowlittle about what mathematical or computation power isinherent in particular systems that do not merely generatesets of strings but pair strings with representations ofmeanings that are appropriate to particular situations.
5 Itwould be useful to have more clear results about combinedsyntactic and semantic systems, since no one doubts that itis the entire mapping between structure and meaning thatlinguists are ultimately interested in.
Moreover, it hasbeen argued fairly convincingly that some natural4See Sag and Hankamer (in press) and work cited there for some impor-tant progress in this direction.5See Pullum (1984:117-118) for one minor and nor very surprisingresult, observed by Len Schubert: the set of sentences assigned eno-tations by a semantics associated with a CF-PSG can be non-CF.
Parteeand Marsh (1984), stimulated by Higginbotham's paper, discuss a prob-lem that has potential relevance here.
They note that the set of predicatecalculus formulae with no vacuous quantification is not a CFL, andconjecture (but are not able to prove) that it is not even an indexedlanguage.Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1984 185Geoffrey K. Pullum On Two Recent Attempts to Show that English Is Not a CFLlanguages cannot be described by a CF grammar in amanner that allows a suitable syntax-to-semanticsmapping to be defined (see Bresnan, Kaplan, Peters, andZaenen (1982) on Dutch)/'~'Shieber (in press), which I saw in a preliminary version after complet-ing this paper but have not seen in its final form at the time of going topress, extends the result about Dutch to make a much stronger claimabout a related language, Swiss German, namely that it has a syntacticanalog of the Dutch pattern and overall is not even CF.
Moreover,Culy (in press) also has evidence of a natural language (Bambara,spoken in West Africa) that appears to be other than CF.
This changesthe background to the current dispute a lot, of course.
If Shieber andCuly are right, there are some aspects of the syntax of some naturallanguages that call for parsing by a device with greater than CF power.What I have said above about English remains true, of course, butalthough there may be general facts about how anaphora works thatcould have enabled us to predict this, we cannot predict it simply fromthe proposition that universal grammar does not allow supra-CF gram-mars.
This makes me much less confident about being able to answerthe rejoinder to this article that Langendoen and Postal publish in thisissue.
Although their facts, which 1 saw just as this article went topress, are not totally convincing (because the repeated-head-nounappositive relative construction they discuss is so awkward and unna-tural even at the best of times), 1 now do not see why in principle theymight not be right.
Perhaps I have been speaking and writing a non-CFlanguage all these years, and simply hadn't realized it, like Moli6re's M.Jourdain, who didn't realize he had native competence in prose.ReferencesBresnan, Joan W.; Kaplan, Ronald M.; Peters, P. Stanley; and Zaenen,Annie 1982 Cross-serial Dependencies in Dutch.
Linguistic Inquiry13: 613-635.Chomsky, Noam 1974 Interview with Herman Parret.
In: Parret,Herman, Ed., Discussing Language.
Mouton, The Hague, Holland:27-54.Chomsky, Noam 1981 Untitled comments in reply to a question fromHenry Thompson.
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society ofLondon B 295: 277-281.
\[Reprinted in Psychological Mechanisms ofLanguage.Society and the British Academy, London, 1981.
Pagereference to the original publication.\[Culy, Christopher forthcoming The Complexity of the Vocabulary ofBambara.
Linguistics and Philosophy.Gazdar, Gerald 1981 Unbounded Dependencies and Coordinate Struc-ture.
Linguistic Inquiry 12: 155-184.Gazdar, Gerald 1982 Phrase Structure Grammar.
In: Jacobson,Pauline and Pullum, Geoffrey K., Eds., The Nature of SyntacticRepresentation.
D. Reidel, Dordrecht.Gazdar, Gerald 1983 NLs, CFLs and CF-PSGs.
In: Sparck Jones,Karen and Wilks, Yorick, Eds., Automatic Natural Language Parsing.Ellis Horwood, West Sussex, England.Higginbotham, James 1984 English Is Not a Context-Free Language.Linguistic Inquiry 15:119-126.Langendoen, D. Terence and Postal, Paul M. 1984 The Vastness ofNatural Languages'.
Basil Blackwell, Oxford.Partee, Barbara and Marsh, William 1984 How Non-Context-Free IsVariable Binding'?
Presented at the Third West Coast Conference onFormal Linguistics, University of California, Santa Cruz.Postal, Paul M. and Langendoen, D. Terence 1984 English and theClass of Context-Free Languages.
Computational Linguistics 10(3-4):177-181.Pullum, Geoffrey K. 1984 Syntactic and Semantic Parsaility.
In:Proceedings of Coling84.
Stanford, California: 112-122.Pullum, Geoffrey K. forthcoming Such That Clauses and the Context-Freeness of English.
Linguistic Inquiry.Pullum, Geoffrey K. and Gazdar, Gerald 1982 Natural Languages andContext-Free Languages.
Linguistics and Philosophy 4:471-504.Rich, Elaine 1983 Artificial Intelligence.
McGraw-Hill, New York,New York.Trevelyan, George Otto 1876 The Life and Letters of Lord Macaulay,Vol.
11.
Logmans, Green and Co., London.Sag, Ivan A. and Hankamer, Jorge 1984 Toward a Theory of Anaphor-ic Processing.
Linguistics and Philosophy 7: 325-345.Shieber, Stuart forthcoming Evidence Against the Context-Freeness ofNatural language.
Linguistics and Philosophy.186 Computational Linguistics, Volume 10, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1984
