THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT PROJECTFOR MACHINE TRANSLATIONMakoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, and Jun-ichi NakamuraDepartment of Electrical EngineeringKyoto UniversitySakyou-ku, Kyoto, Japan 6061 OUTL INE OF THE PROJECTThe project is funded by a grant from the Agency ofScience and Technology through the Special Coordi-nation Funds for the Promotion of Science and Technol-ogy, and was started in fiscal 1982.
The formal title ofthe project is "Research on Fast Information Servicesbetween Japanese and English for Scientific and Engi-neering Literature".
The purpose is to demonstrate thefeasibility of machine translation of abstracts of scientificand engineering papers between the two languages, andas a result, to establish a fast information exchangesystem for these papers.
The project term was initiallyscheduled as three years from the fiscal year of 1982with a budget of about seven hundred million yen, but,due to the present financial pressures on the government,the term has been extended to four years, up to 1986.The project is conducted by the close cooperationbetween four organizations.
At Kyoto University, wehave the responsibility of developing the software systemfor the core part of the machine translation process(grammar writing system and execution system); gram-mar systems for analysis, transfer and synthesis; detailedspecification of what information is written in the worddictionaries (all the parts of speech in the analysis, trans-fer, and generation dictionaries), and the working manu-als for constructing these dictionaries.
The Electro-technical Laboratories (ETL) are responsible for themachine translation text input and output, morphologicalanalysis and synthesis, and the construction of the verband adjective dictionaries based on the working manualsprepared at Kyoto.
The Japan Information Center forScience and Technology (JICST) is in charge of the noundictionary and the compiling of special technical terms inscientific and technical fields.
The Research InformationProcessing System (RIPS) under the Agency of Engineer- .
# .mg Technology is responsible for completing the machinetranslation system, including the man-machine interfacesto the system developed at Kyoto, which allow pre- andpost-editing, access to grammar rules, and dictionarymaintenance.The project is not primarily concerned with the devel-opment of a final practical system; that will be developedby private industry using the results of this project.Technical know-how is already being transferred gradu-ally to private enterprise through the participation in theproject of people from industry.
Software and linguisticdata are also being transferred in part.
Finally, completetechnical transfer will be done under the proper condi-tions.The Japanese source texts being used are abstracts ofscientific and technical papers published in the monthlyJICST journal d Current Bibliography of Science andTechnology.
At present, the project is only processingtexts in the electronics, electrical engineering, andcomputer science fields.
English source texts will beabstracts from INSPEC in these fields..
The sentencestructures used in abstracts tend .to be complex comparedto ordinary sentences, with long nominal compounds,noun-phrase conjunctions, mathematical and physicalformulas, long embedded sentences, and so on.
Theanalysis and translation of this type of sentence structureis far more difficult than ordinary sentence patterns.However, we have not included a pre-editing stagebecause we wanted to find the ultimate limitations onhandling this type of complex sentence structure.Our system is based on the following concepts:1.
The use of all available linguistic information, bothsurface and syntactic.
The writing of as detailed aspossible syntactic rules.
The development of a gram-mar writing system that can accept any future level ofsophisticated linguistic theory.2.
The introduction of semantic information wherevernecessary to enable the syntactic analysis to be asaccurate as possible.
The importance of semanticinformation not over-estimated; a well-balancedusage of both syntax and semantics.
Heavily seman-Copyright1985 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided thatthe copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
To copyotherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or  specific permission.0362-613X/85/02091-111503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume I I, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 91Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTtics-oriented analysis is very attractive and effectivefor sentences within narrow limits, but a system ofthat type cannot cope with the complicated structuresfound in descriptions of the wider world wheresemantic description becomes almost impossible.3.
There are many exceptional linguistic phenomena thatare more word-specific than explainable in generallinguistic theory.
The system should be able to acceptword-specific rules.
In our system, these rules arewritten into the lexical entries, with the priority givento these grammar ules in the analysis, transfer, andsynthesis phases.
This mechanism allows the systemto be upgraded step by step by the accumulation oflinguistic facts and word-specific rules in the diction-ary and effectively bypasses any deadlock in systemimprovement.4.
The system must be able to produce an output withan imperfect sentence structure and containinguntranslated original words rather than fail in caseswhere the analysis was imperfect.
From the post-editor's point of view, an imperfect output is far pref-erable to no output at all.Many other concepts and methods have been devel-oped in our machine translation system, and these areexplained in the sections following.
This paper concen-trates on the main features of the Japanese to Englishtranslation system.
Details of the English to Japanesesystem, which is also included in our national machinetranslation project, is being developed, and the result willbe published shortly.2 THE GRAMMAR WRITING SYSTEM, GRADE2.1 OBJECTIVES OF THE SOFTWARE SYSTEMIn developing a machine translation system, the grammarrules should accurately reflect the intention of the gram-mar writer.
This is fundamental to the achievement of agood grammar system.
One of the basic necessities ofany machine translation system is a programminglanguage to write the grammar composed of the languagefor specifying the grammar ules and the accompanyingexecution system.A grammar-writing language for machine translationthat is powerful must fulfill the following requirements:1.
The language must allow manipulation of linguisticcharacteristics in both source and target languages.The linguistic structure of Japanese differs greatlyfrom that of English.
For instance, in Japanese, therestrictions on word order are not so strong, andsome syntactic omponents can be omitted.
A gram-mar writer must be able to reflect these sorts of char-acteristics.2.
It is desirable that the grammar-writing language usethe same framework for writing the grammars in theanalysis, transfer, and synthesis phases.
The grammarwriter should not be forced to learn several differentsystems for the different ranslation stages.With these points in mind, we developed a new soft-ware system for machine translation comprising thelanguage used to specify the grammar rules and theexecution system.
We call it GRADE (GRAmmar DEscri-ber).2.2 THE STRUCTURE OF GRADEThe data format used to express the structure of asentence during the analysis, transfer, and generationphases has a large influence on the design of the gram-mar writing language.
GRADE uses an annotated treestructure to represent he sentence structure during thetranslation process.
Grammatical rules in GRADE aredescribed in the form of tree-to-tree transformations witheach node annotated.
The annotated tree in GRADE is atree structure whose nodes are annotated by sets ofproperty-value pairs.
This tree-to-tree transformationgives a great power of expression to rewriting rules thatcan be used in the grammars for the analysis, transfer,and synthesis phases of the machine translation system.Annotation parts can be used to express information suchas syntactic category, number, semantic markers, andother properties.
They can also be used as flags tocontrol rule application.A rewriting rule in GRADE consists of a declarationpart and a main part.
The declaration part has the follow-ing four components:?
Directory entry part, containing the grammar writer'sname, the version number of the rewriting rule, and thelast revision date.
This part is not used at executiontime.
The grammar writer can access the informationusing the HELP facility in GRADE.?
Property definition part, where the grammar writerdeclares the property names and their possible values.?
Variable definition part, where the grammar writerdeclares the names of the variables.?
Matching instruction part, where the grammar writerspecifies the mode of application of the rewriting rule toan annotated tree.The main part specifies the transformation in therewriting rule, and has the following three parts:?
Matching condition part, which describes the conditionsfor the structure of trees and the property values ofnodes.?
Substructure operation part, which specifies the oper-ations for the parts of the annotated tree that match theconditions written in the matching condition part.?
Creation part, which specifies the structure and theproperty values of the transformed annotated trees.The matching condition part allows the grammar writ-er to specify not only a specific structure for an anno-tated tree but also structures that may repeat severaltimes, structures that are optional, and structures wherethe order of the substructures is unrestricted.The substructure operation part specifies operationson the parts of the annotated tree that match in thematching condition part.
It allows the grammar writer toassign a property value to a node, or to assign a variable92 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-iehi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTto a tree or property value.
The variable is declared inthe variable declaration part.
It also allows him to call asubgrammar, a subgrammar network (which is explainedbelow), a dictionary rule, a built-in function, or a LISPfunction.
In addition, the grammar writer can specify aconditional operation using the IF-THEN-ELSE state-ment.The structure and the property values of the trans-formed annotated tree are written in the creation part.The transformed tree is described by node labels that areused in the matching condition part or the substructureoperation part.The matching instruction parr of a rewriting rule speci-fies the application path through the annotated tree.Paths through the trees are specified by combinations ofthe four basic modes: left-to-right, right-to-left,bottom-to-top, and top-to-bottom.GRADE allows the grammar writer to divide the wholegrammar into several subgrammars and to describe thephases of the translation process eparately.
A subgram-mar may correspond to a grammatical unit such as theparsing of a simple noun phrase or the parsing of asimple sentence.
The network of subgrammars formingthe whole grammar allows the grammar writer to controlthe translation process in detail.
If the subgrammarnetwork in the analysis phase consists of the subgrammarfor a noun phrase (SG1) and the subgrammar for a verbphrase (SG2) in this sequence, the GRADE executor firstapplies SG1 to the input sentence, and then applies SG2to the result.2.3 SOME SPECIFIC FEATURES OF GRADEGRADE allows a grammar writer to write word-specificgrammar ules as a subgrammar at the word dictionaryentry level.
A subgrammar written in a dictionary entryis called a dictionary or lexical rule.
A dictionary rule isspecific to a particular word in the dictionary.A dictionary rule is called by the CALL-DIC functionin the substructure operation part.
When CALL-DIC isexecuted by an entry word and rule identifier as keys, thedictionary rule is retrieved and is applied to the part ofthe annotated tree specified by the grammar writer.Any grammar writing language must be able to resolvethe syntactic and semantic ambiguities found in naturallanguages.
GRADE allows the grammar writer to mergethe results of all possible tree-to-tree transformations fora particular subgrammar.
However, it must avoid anycombinatorial explosion when it encounters ambiguities.For instance, let us take the case where a grammarwriter writes a subgrammar to analyze the case frame ofa verb, containing two rewriting rules; one rule is toconstruct a VP (verb phrase) from a V and NP (verb andnoun phrase), and the other is to construct a VP from aV, NP, and PP (verb, noun phrase, and prepositionalphrase).
When he specifies the NONDETERMINISTIC-PARALLELED mode for the subgrammar, the GRADEexecutor applies both rewriting rules to the input tree,constructs two transformed trees, and merges them into anew tree whose root node has the special PARA property.The root node is called a para node and the subtreesunder this node are the trees that have been transformedby the rewriting rules.
Figure 1 shows this mode appliedto create a para node.The grammar writer can select the most suitablesubtree under the para node by applying an subgrammarthat assigns a priority value to each subtree and using abuilt-in function that orders the subtrees according totheir values.A para node is treated the same as other nodes in thecurrent implementation f GRADE.
The grammar writercan use the para node as he wants, and can select asubtree under a para node at a later application of thegrammar rule.A ~oo~V NP PP SGPARAVP PP VPA AV NP V NP PPFigure 1.
Example of para node formation.Computational Linguistics, Volume I 1, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 93Makoto Nagao, .lun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MT2.4 SYSTEM CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENTThe system configuration of GRADE is shown in Figure2.
Grammar ules written in GRADE are first translatedby the GRADE translator into internal forms, expressedas S-expressions in LISP.
The internal forms of the gram-mar rules are applied to the input tree that is output bythe morphological analysis program.
The rules areapplied by the GRADE executor, and the results are sentto the morphological generation program.The GRADE system program is written in UTILISP(University of Tokyo Interactive LISP) and implementedon a FACOM M382 computer, which can handle Chinesecharacters.
The system will also run on the Symbolics3600.
The system program contains about 10,000 lines.3 THE DICTIONARIESBecause our system is based on the "transfer" approach,there are three separate dictionaries (for analysis, trans-fer, and synthesis).
In this project, Japanese words areclassified into 12 major categories (parts of speech) and46 subcategories according to their morpho-syntacticbehaviour.
English words are classified into 14 majorcategories and 28 subcategories.
The outline of thedictionaries of different kinds is explained in this section.The details are available in the Japanese literature.3.1 THE JAPANESE ANALYSIS DICTIONARY3.1.1 ANALYSIS DICTIONARY FOR VERBSSome Japanese verbs are used in a wide range of circum-stances, each usage expressing a subtly different"meaning".
These must all be translated into Englishdifferently.
Distinguishing these different usages requirescareful investigation of the context around the verb.
Asdescribed in section 2, GRADE allows the definition ofgrammar ules that are applied only to specific lexicalitems.
We use this capability to discriminate betweenverb usages.
However, many verbs have only two orthree different usages at most.
We prepared a fixedformat for the lexical coding of these verbs.
Descriptionsin this format are converted to internal representation iGRADE automatically by a program.
For verbs that havea wide range of usages, where the rules need to be writ-ten based on a variety of heuristic information, the gram-mar rules can be written directly in GRADE, bypassingthe fixed format.
In the fixed format, a verb can haveseveral case frames corresponding to different usages.
Acase frame in Japanese is represented as a set of tripletslike:(Surface-Case-Mark Deep-Case Constraints-on NP)<SCM> <DC> <CON>SCM is a set of postpositional case particles, one of whichfollows the noun phrase to fill the case.
DC expresses thedeep case interpretation of the relationship between theverb and the noun phrase.
CON specifies a set of seman-tic markers that the noun phrase to fill the case shouldhave.
Note that the deep case interpretation of the samesurface case particle changes depending on the verb.We listed 103 postpositional case particles and 33deep case relations in Japanese, and 32 deep caserelations in English (Table 1), which we believe to besufficient for Japanese to English translation.
Figure 3gives a list of semantic markers used for semantic specifi-cation of the nouns in CON.Dlctlonary Grammar -,,.
// \Dict ionary Grammarrule ( Interns\]  form)sententtal  tree \[executor I sententtal  tree94Figure 2.
System configuration of GRADE.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MT,g~'~ ,~m o, ,~cloI ~.-~ U ~e-i m 0 0U~ 1 4.1I~.~ fa.1 r.3 C..IO0i...I.,-IIJ ~J~ g4-1Ng0~-40 Z ?4..I00CJ0 ~~ ~J 0l ~ lI 0 E~ tJ0 ~ ~\[OCl "ION~J~ .
"4 OI tJ gh ~4J m 0 ~J O~oooi00 aJaJ ~C~ 0~ O00 ~J 0W 0 U~ NN?tJN N~ OO ~ O ~ mCJ~ m~ 0 m0cJ1 4J ,.~ m ,JObOO 0 ~J I ~ .,,4O~ ~ 4J 4.IN N N N N0?
i-I ,.oIll I..iO ~ .l,JU 0Jm ~I1UO2INW04J,IJ UQJ 4JF igure  3.
Sys tem o f  semant ic  p r imi t ives  fo r  nouns .Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 95Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Juff-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTTable 1.
English case labels, a. Subcategorization of nouns: proper noun, common1.
AGenT 17.
RANge noun, action noun, adverbial noun, postpositional2.
Gausal-POtency 18.
COmpaRison noun, conjunctive noun, complementizer.3.
EXPeriencer 19.
TOOl b. Semantic odes: The semantic odes shown in Figure3 are used.
4.
OBJect 20.
PURpose5.
RECipient 21.
Space-FRom c. Information on collocation: Adjectives, nouns, etc.,which often occur together with a noun are specified.6.
ORigin 22.
Space-AT This information plays a role similar to the case frame7.
SOUrce 23.
Space-TO8.
GOAl 24.
Space-THrough of a verb, and is effective in discriminating the differ-ent usages and meanings of nouns.
9.
COntent 25.
Time-FRomWe also have fixed formats for words in the other 10.
PARtner 26.
Time-AT11.
OPPonent 27.
Time-TO morpho-syntactie classes.
All words in the dictionary12.
BENificiary 28.
DURation have, besides the above information, the properties listedin Table 2.
13.
ACCompaniment 29.
CAUse14.
ROLe 30.
CONdition Table 2.
Properties of Japanese words in the dictionary.
15.
DEGree 31.
RESult16.
MANner 32.
COnCessionSince one case frame corresponds to one usage of averb, and each usage corresponds to a different"meaning" of the verb, the lexical properties of verbs arerepresented by the properties of each case frame.
Thefollowing properties are coded for each case frame.a.
Aspectual features: stative, semi-stative, durative,resultant, transitional.b.
Volition: volitional verb, non-volitional verb,c.
Possible transformations of surface case markers:Some auxiliary verbs that follow the verb and expresspassive, or causative voice, etc., change the surfacecase marking; that is, the postpositional case particlesdescribed in SCM are changed.
Which auxiliary verbscan follow, and what transformation of surface casemarkers is caused by an auxiliary verb, depend on theverb itself, and so are marked as a lexical property ofthe verb.d.
Idiomatic expressions: Information on collocation; forexample, which nouns and adverbs are often collocat-ed with the verb are described in this column.e.
Lexical entry in transfer dictionary: As describedbefore, a verb may have more than one case frame\]each of which corresponds to one "meaning" of theverb.
The transfer dictionary contains an entry foreach meaning.
Thus a single surface verb in Japanesemay correspond to several different entries in thetransfer dictionary.
On the other hand, certain usages,of different surface verbs may be reduced to a singleentry in the transfer dictionary, if they are synony-mous.f.
Semantic class: This property is used for semanticclassification of verbs such as "mental-action","physical-transfer", etc.g.
Miscellaneous properties: Several other minOr proper-ties are coded in the current dictionary.3.1.2 ANALYSIS DICTIONARY FOR NOUNSThe following properties are described using the fixednoun format:lexical itemword lengthword stempronunciationpart of speechsub-categorization fpart of speechconjugationsynonymderivations (noun, verb,adjective, adverb)related wordssubject codelexical entry in thetransfer dictionarysemantic odes(for nouns, verbs)thesaurus codes(for nouns)idiomatic expressionscase frames(for verbs, adjectives)3.2 THE JAPANESE TO ENGLISHTRANSFER DICTIONARY3.2.1 TRANSFER DICTIONARY FOR VERBSDifferent verb usages are discriminated uring the analy-sis phase.
This means that usage ambiguities are partiallyresolved before the transfer phase.
However, theconcept of "meaning" (usage) applied to a single word isvery vague and in fact depends greatly on the languagepairs we have for translation.
For example, the verbNOMU in Japanese can be used in the following ways:Tabako-wo NOMU ~ smoke a cigaretteKusuri-wo NOMU ~ take medicineMizu-wo NOMU ~ drink waterThese three cases should be translated ifferently.
In asimilar way, the English verb to wear  is used as:Wear a suit ~ Suutsu-wo KIRUWear black shoes ~ Kuroi Kutsu-wo HAKUWear spectacles ~ Megane-wo KAKERUWear a wristwatch ~ Udedokei-wo SURU96 Computational Linguistics, Volume I !, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTThese four cases should be translated differently intoJapanese.
Some might claim that these verbs are veryambiguous and have different meanings; but this contra-dicts the intuitive conclusion that suggests it is reasonableto consider that the target language simply has morespecific verbs in these cases.
In other words, discrimi-nation in meaning at the analysis tage is not sufficient oselect he appropriate target verb in these cases.The verb transfer dictionary is divided into two parts:a word selection part and a mapping part.
The wordselection part is used to choose appropriate target verbsby referring to semantic markers of the case elements.The semantic markers currently being used appear to beinsufficient o decide appropriate target verbs in certaincases.
We cannot, for instance, distinguish medicine andcigarette with the current set of semantic markers, whichis relevant to choosing appropriate English verbs forNOMU.
However, we can treat such problems by specify-ing word selection rules in the noun transfer dictionary.The mapping part gives the correspondence of thedeep cases in Japanese and English.
In most cases, theJapanese deep case maps to the same deep case inEnglish.
There are, however, certain deep cases that areinterpreted ifferently in the two languages.Sometimes a single Japanese verb can not be trans-lated into a single English verb and has to be paraphrasedusing a combination of a verb and another element suchas a noun or a prepositional phrase.
For example,SHISAKUSURU ~ develop (something) on a trial basisSuch linguistic expressions are also treated in themapping part.Although many verbs in the transfer dictionary arecoded in this fixed format and converted to lexical rulesin GRADE by a program, we also write lexical rulesdirectly for verbs that have a wide range of usages.3.2.2 TRANSFER DICTIONARY FOR NOUNSSome Japanese words that behave morpho-syntacticallyas nouns have to be translated into English words inother morpho-syntactic classes.
Such class conversionsshould be treated in the transfer dictionary, because theyare highly dependent on the lexical item.
For example:(i) TAIWA-KEISHIKI-de JIKKOUSURU(interaction) (to execute)-- to execute interactively(ii) PUROGURAMU-MOODO-de  J IKKOUSURU(program mode) (to execute)-~ to execute in program modeThe above two examples have exactly the same struc-tures in Japanese (where the noun phrasesTAIWA-KEISHIKI-de and PUROGURAMU-MOODO-de fillthe same deep case, "manner") but translate to differentEnglish structures imply because an appropriate lexicalitem exists for (i) but not for (ii).The fixed format for nouns includes the followingitems:a.
Conditions on the sequence of words in the precedingpart:A set of default rules that translate Japanese postpo-sitional case particles to English prepositions isprovided in the transfer grammar.
However, thesedefault rules are often violated, because certainEnglish nouns require specific prepositions.
This kindof information is coded in this column.b.
Conditions on the sequence of words in the succeed-ing part:Postpositions that follow the noun often give a clue tothe morpho-syntactic class conversion.c.
Collocation with verbs:Certain combinations of nouns and verbs in Japaneseare translated into English as single verbs, and certaincombinations of nouns and verbs such as kusuri(medicine) and NOMU (to smoke, to drink, to take)require specific translation of the verb (to take).
Thisis the kind of information coded here.3.3 ENGLISH GENERATION DICTIONARYThe format for verbs includes the following items:a.
Components: In the transfer phase, certain Japaneseverbs are translated into English expressions contain-ing not only verbs but also prepositional phrasesand/or  adverbial particles (off, up, etc.).
Thesecomplex expressions have separate entries in thegeneration dictionary, and the structural descriptionsfor the complex expressions are given here.b.
Verb patterns: The verb codes from the LongmanDictionary of Contemporary English are used to speci-fy the syntactic patterns a verb can take.c.
Aspectual features: stative, transitive, process,completive, momentary.d.
Voice: usually passive, can be used in passive voice,cannot be used in passive voice.e.
Volition: volitional verb, non-volitional verb.f.
Agent of to-infinitive: SUBject (I promise him to go),OBJject (I want him to go).g.
Case frames: A case frame of a verb is expressed by aset of quadruplets like:Surface-Case Deep-Case Syntactic-Form Semantic-CodeSC DC SF SECSF is a list of numbers, each of which expresses one syntacticform the case element can take:1. noun phrase2.
infinitive without o3.
to-infinitive4.
-ing5.
that-clause6.
wh-clause7.
adjective8.
-edThe formats for other parts of speech are described inthe Japanese literature.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 97Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MT4 JAPANESE SENTENCE ANALYSIS4.1 ANALYSIS STRATEGIESAs pointed out by Wilks, semantic information cannot beused as constraints on single linguistic structures; it canbe used only as preference cues to help choose the mostfeasible interpretation from among all the syntacticallypossible interpretations.
We believe that many types ofpreference cues, besides emantic ones, exist in real texts,and these cannot be captured by CFG rules.
By makinguse of various types of preference cues, our analysisgrammar for Japanese can work almost deterministicallyto give the most preferable interpretation at the firstoutput, without extensive semantic processing.In order to integrate heuristic rules based on variouslevels of cues into a unified analysis grammar, we haveintroduced the following principles in the analysis ofJapanese sentences:1.
Explicit control of rule application: Heuristic rulescan be ordered according to their strength.2.
Multiple relation representation: Various levels ofinformation including morphological, syntactic,semantic, and logical are expressed in a single anno-tated tree and can be manipulated at any time duringthe analysis.
This is required not only because manyheuristic rules are based on heterogeneous levels ofcues but also because the analysis grammar should beable to perform semantic/logical interpretation ofsentences at the same time, and the rules for thesephases should be written using the same frameworkas the syntae, tic analysis rules.3.
Lexicon-driven processing: We can write heuristicrules specific to a single or a limited number of words,such as rules concerned with collocation amongwords.
These rules are strong in the sense that theyalmost always succeed.
They are stored in the lexiconand invoked at the appropriate time during the analy-sis without decreasing efficiency.4.
Explicit definition of analysis strategies: The wholeanalysis phase can be divided into steps.
This makesthe whole grammar efficient, natural, and easy toread.
Furthermore, strategic consideration plays anessential role in preventing undesirable interpretationsfrom being generated.Figure 4 shows the overall organization of our currentanalysis grammar.
The main components are:1.
Morphological Analysis2.
Analysis of Simple Noun Phrases3.
Analysis of Simple Sentences4.
Analysis of Embedded Sentences (relative clauses)5.
Analysis of Sentence Relationships6.
Analysis of Outer Cases7.
Contextual Processing (processing of omitted caseelements, interpretations of ha, etc.
)The analysis produces dependency tree structuresshowing the semantic relationships between the words inthe input sentence.4.2 TYPICAL STEPS IN THE ANALYSIS GRAMMAR4.2.1 SIMPLE SENTENCESAs described in 3, the analysis dictionary for verbscontains verb case frames that are expanded to GRADErules with unrestricted word order to obtain a match withthe input sentence structure.
Certain verbs such as ARU,NARU, SURU, MOTSU, etc., which have a ,-,~le range ofusages, are discriminated by directly coding SG~,, ":" thedictionary.4.2.2 RELATIVE CLAUSESRelative clause constructions in Japanese express severaldifferent relationships between modifying clauses (rela-tive clauses) and their antecedents.
Some relative clauseconstructions cannot be translated into English as rela-tive clauses.
We classified Japanese relative clauses intofour types, according to the relationship between theclause and its antecedent.
Because these four forms ofrelative clauses have the same surface forms, like.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
(verb) (noun)Relative Clause Antecedentcareful processing is required to distinguish betweenthem.
We have developed a sophisticated analysis proce-dure that uses the various levels of heuristic information.4.2.3 NOUN PHRASE CONJUNCTIONSNoun phrase conjunctions often appear in abstracts ofscientific and technical papers.
It is important to analyzethem correctly, especially in correctly determining thescope of the conjunction, because they often lead to aproliferation of the analysis results.
We have manyheuristic rules based on various types of information.Some are based on surface lexical items, some on wordmorphemes, and some on semantic information.
Theyare used differently in different conjunctive structures.We can distinguish strong heuristic rules (that is, rulesthat almost always give correct scopes when applied)from others.
In fact, there is some ordering of heuristicrules according to their strength.
In GRADE we candefine arbitrary ordering of rule applications by usingsubgrammar networks and also by ordering rewritingrules inside a subgrammar.
This capability of being ableto control the rule application sequence is absolutelynecessary in integrating heuristic rules based on heter-ogeneous types of information into a unified set of rules.4.2.4 SENTENCE RELATIONSHIPS ANDOUTER CASE ANALYSISIn Japanese there are several different syntacticconstructions corresponding to English subordinators andcoordinators like although, in order to, and, and so on.The correspondence between forms of Japanese andEnglish sentence constructions is not straightforward.Some postpositional particles in Japanese express everaldifferent semantic relationships between sentences, andtherefore should be translated into different subordina-98 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujil, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTSTART)I morpho log ica~analysis J1 ?e:ision on scopes of~imple sentences1 f Decision on scopes of h A~lysis~~alysis of -~  ~noun phrase conjunction~ \[ relative I~mantic _ ~f  I ~/~clause~~lationship in~~Analysis of ~oun phrased.j/?
T~un phrases~ ~nalysis ?f simple sentencey /@nversion of "ha' to "n~ /~ecision :n aspec~ /~nalysi's o~ semantiC/Velationships between F\ simple sentences~ ec is ion  on ten~1 ~Contextual analys:~deleted cases etc1 Phrase structure t hpendency structur~(END)Figure 4.
Basic flow of processing.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 99Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTtors in English according to the semantic relationships.The postpositional particle TAME can express either a"purpose-action" relationship or a "cause-effect"relationship.
In order to resolve the ambiguity in thesemantic relationships expressed by TAME, a set of lexi-cal rules is defined in the dictionary for the entry TAME.The rules are roughly as follows, where the sequentialform ($1, S2) is assumed:(i) If $1 expresses a completed action or a stativeassertion, the relationship is "cause-effect".
(ii)If $1 expresses neither a completed action nor astative assertion, and $2 expresses a volitional action,the relationship is "purpose-action".Note that whether S1 expresses a completed action or notis determined in a preceding phase by using rules thatutilize the aspectual features of the verbs described in thedictionary, and auxiliary verbs following the verb.
Wehave heuristic rules for 57 postpositional particles forsentences conjunctions like TAME.Postpositional particles that follow noun phrases andexpress case relationships are also very ambiguous in thesense that they express several different deep cases.Although the interpretations of inner case elements aredirectly given in the verb dictionary as the form ofmapping between surface case particles and their deepcase interpretations, the outer case elements hould besemantically interpreted by referring to the semanticcategories of noun phrases and the verb properties.Lexical rules for 62 case particles have also been imple-mented and tested.5 TRANSFER AND GENERATION OF ENGLISHIn principle we use the deep case dependency structure torepresent a sentence semantically.
Theoretically it ispossible to assign a unique case dependency structure toeach input sentence.
In practice, however, the analysisphase may fail, or it may assign the wrong structure.Therefore, as an intermediate representation, we use astructure that makes it possible to annotate multiplepossibilities as well as multiple level representation.Properties at a node are represented as vectors, so thatthis complex dependency structure is flexible in the sensethat different interpretation rules can be applied to thestructure.Transfer and generation rules are organized along theprinciple that "if a better ule exists, then the system usesit; otherwise, the system attempts to use a standard rule:if that fails, the system uses a default rule".
The gram-mar involves a number of stages of application of heuris-tic rules.
Figure 5 shows the process flow for the transferand generation phases.To obtain a more neutral (or target-language oriented)structure, some heuristic rules are activated immediatelyafter the standard analysis of the Japanese sentence isfinished.
We call such activation the pre-transfer loop.Semantic and pragmatic interpretations are done in thepre-transfer loop.
The larger the number of heuristicrules applied in this loop, the better the results.100pre-transferloopinternalrepr esen tat i onfor JapaneseANALYS I S //TRANSFERpost-transfer~ loopinternalrepresentationfor Englisht GENERATIONtree I structuretransformationMORPHOLOGICALSYNTHESISFigure 5.
Process flow for the transfer and generation phases.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTTable 3.
Word selection in target language by using semantic markers._h~Y~X ~Xnon-living substance,,,stru,cturesocial phenomenaaction,deed,movementreactionstandard,propertystate,condit ionrelation?non-livingX ~ Y ~  Y structuresubstancephenomena, action?propertyXf i~Y~&~ Y measure?form-itake placeoccur-iarise-Iproduce-2form-icause-iproduce-2improve-iincrease-2raise-iform X(obj),take"'placeX occurX ariseproduce XX form YX cause YX produce Y'X improve YX increase YX raise YSemant icmarker  for X/YTable 4.
Default rule for assigning a case label of English to the Japanese postposition i.J-SURFACE-CASEt -  (ni)J-DEEP-CASE E-DEEP-CASEREC.
BENeficiary RECipientORigin ORI fromPARticipant PAR wilhTIMe Time-AT inROLe ROt asGOAl GOA Ioe o e  o o oDefault Preposition1to (REC-- to.
BEN - -  for)Q @ ?5.1 WORD SELECTION IN ENGLISHUSING SEMANTIC MARKERSWord selection in the target language is a big problem inmachine translation.
There are varieties of choices fortranslation of a word in the source language.
The mainprinciples adopted by our system are:1.
Area restriction using field codes, such as electricalengineering, nuclear science, medicine, and so on.2.
Semantic odes are attached to a word in the analysisphase and used for the selection of the proper targetlanguage word or phrase.3.
The sentence structure involving the word to betranslated is sometimes effective in determining theproper word or phrase in the target language.Table 3 shows an example of part of the verb transferdictionary.
Selection of the English verb is done fromthe semantic ategories of the nouns related to the verb.A number (i) attached to the verb, like form-1 orproduce-2, labels the i-th usage of the verb.
Whensemantic information on the nouns is not available, theComputational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985column labelled 0 is applied to produce a default trans-lation.The expressive power of format-oriented descriptionsis, however, insufficient for a number of common verbssuch as SURU 'to make, to do, to perform, ...' and NARU'to become, to consist of, to provide, ...'.
In such cases,we can write the transfer ules directly in GRADE.
Theremust be a constant effort to list varieties of usages withtheir corresponding English sentence structures andsemantic onditions.A postposition in Japanese represents a case slot for averb, but it has a variety of usages; thus determination ofthe English preposition corresponding to each Japanesepostposition is quite difficult.
It also depends on the verbthat governs the noun phrase having that postposition.Table 4 illustrates part of a default table for determin-ing deep and surface case labels when no higher levelrule applies.
This sort of table is defined for all casecombinations.
In this way, we confirm at least one trans-lation to be assigned to an input.
The particular usage ofa preposition for a particular English verb is written in101Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTthe lexical entry for the verb, and the information is usedfor English sentence generation.Many odd structures are still left after the pre-transferloop and the lexical selection, and the internal Englishrepresentation must be adjusted further into more naturalforms.
We call this part the post-transfer loop.Global sentence structures are completely different inJapanese and English, and correspondingly the internalstructures are also completely different.
The fundamen-tal differences between the internal representation ofJapanese and of English are absorbed in the pre-transferloop.
But before the English generation phase, somestructural transformations are still required for cases suchas (a) embedded sentence structures, and (b) complexsentence structures.
These structural adjustments areperformed in the post-transfer loop.The steps comprising the transfer phase are shown inFigure 6.\[Apply heuristic rules (I t Simplify structure~ ransfer nouns, adjectives and determinersl raos e  ooopouo  ooos I  eoldeoutputI Trans ferI Trans ferT rans fer,Ladverbs1verbs Ioptional case,prepositionswith adjective orsubordination and coordinatio~Decide tense,Apply heuristicaspect and moda4ru les  (IInot102Figure 6.
Outline of the transfer phase.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MT5.2 ENGLISH SURFACE STRUCTURE GENERATIONAfter transferring from the Japanese deep dependencystructure to the English one, the structure is converted toa phrase structure tree with all the surface wordsattached to the tree.The conversion is performed top-down from the rootnode of the dependency tree to the leaf.
Therefore,when a governing verb demands a noun phraseexpression or a to-infinitive expression for its dependentphrase, a structural change must be made to the phrase.Noun-to-verb transformations and noun-to-adjectivetransformations are often required due to the differencein expressions between Japanese and English.
This proc-ess moves down from the root node to all the leaf nodes.After this phrase structure generation process, somesentential transformations are performed.
For example:?
When the agent is missing, a passive transformation isapplied.?
When the agent and the object are both missing, thepredicative verb is nominalized and made the subject bysupplementing verb phrases such as is made or isperformed.?
When the subject phrase has a big tree, the anticipatorysubject it is introduced.?
In compound and complex sentences, same subjectnouns are pronominalized.?
Duplication of head nouns in conjunctive noun phrasesis eliminated.
For example, "uniform component andnon-uniform component" is reduced to "uniform andnon-uniform components".Any big structural transformations required in thetranslation come from the essential differences betweenEnglish, which is a DO-language, and Japanese, which isa BE-language.
In English, case slots such as tool,cause/reason, and some others often appear in thesubject position, while in Japanese such expressions arenever used.
Transformations of this kind are incorpo-rated in the generation grammar as shown in Figure 7.They produce more natural English expressions.
Thestylistic transformation part of the process is still veryprimitive.
We need to accumulate much more linguisticknowledge and lexical data before we can produce reallynatural English expressions.6 EVALUATION OF TRANSLATION QUALITYThe following two aspects of the machine translationoutput have been adopted to evaluate translation quality.They are to some extent independent indicators.1.
Intellibility: An evaluation of the extent to which thetranslated text can be understood by a native speakerof the target language.
In Japanese to English trans-lation, we evaluate the extent to which an averageBritish or American reader can understand the outputwithout any reference made to the Japanese original.2.
Accuracy: The degree to which the translated textconveys the meaning of the original text is evaluated,and a measure of the amount of difference betweenthe input and output sentences.
The evaluation isdone by Japanese translators specializing in Japa-nese-to-English translation.earthquake building collapsecollapseSUB~ ~AUSEbuilding earthquake= The building collapseddue to the earthquake.CPOdestroyearthquake\[CPO:causalBJbuildingpotency\]The earthquakedestroyed thebuildings.Figure 7.
An example of structural transformations in the generation phase.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 103Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MT6.1 INTELLIGIBILITYEvaluation of intelligibility is based on a scale of 1 to 5;the categories are described below.
\[See Appendix A fortranslation examples.\]1.
The meaning of the sentence is clear, and there are noquestions.
Grammar, word usage, and style are allappropriate, and no rewriting is needed.2.
The meaning of the sentence is clear, but there aresome problems in grammar, word usage, and/or  style,making the overall quality less than 1.3.
The basic thrust of the sentence is clear, but the eval-uator is not sure of some detailed parts because ofgrammar and word usage problems.
The problemscannot be resolved by any set procedure; the evalu-ator needs the assistance of a Japanese evaluator toclarify the meaning of those parts in the Japaneseoriginal.4) The sentence contains many grammatical and wordusage problems, and the evaluator can only guess atthe meaning after careful study, if at all.
The quickestsolution will be a retranslation of the Japanesesentence because too many revisions would be need-ed.5) The sentence cannot be understood at all.
Noamount of effort will produce any meaning.As the evaluation umber increases on the above scalefrom 1 to 5, intelligibility decreases.
The evaluator usesthe above scale to evaluate the output sentence withoutany reference to the Japanese original in the first place.When the output sentence contains untranslated words inJapanese, the English translation of those words isprovided by a Japanese rewriter before the evaluation.This evaluation work has been carried out to date by oneBritish and one American evaluator, neither of whom hasthe ability to read or evaluate Japanese.
Both evaluatorshave one year's experience in proofreading and checkingtranslations of general scientific and technical iterature,but neither has specialized knowledge in the field of elec-trical engineering, which has been used for the inputmaterial up to now.6.2 ACCURACYAccuracy is evaluated on a scale of 0 to 6; that is, sevencategories.
\[See Appendix B for translation examples.\]0) The content of the input sentence is faithfullyconveyed to the output sentence.
The translatedsentence is clear to a native speaker and no rewritingis needed.1) The content of the input sentence is faithfullyconveyed to the output sentence, and can be clearlyunderstood by a native speaker, but some rewriting isneeded.
The sentence can be corrected by a nativespeaking rewriter without referring to the originaltext.
No Japanese language assistance is required.2) The content of the input sentence is faithfullyconveyed to the output sentence, but some changesare needed in word order.3) While the content of the input sentence is generallyconveyed faithfully to the output sentence, there aresome problems with things like relationships betweenphrases and expressions, and with tense, voice,plurals, and the positions of adverbs.
There is someduplication of nouns in the sentence.4) The content of the input sentence is not adequatelyconveyed to the output sentence.
Some expressionsare missing, and there are problems with the relation-ships between clauses, between phrases and clauses,or between sentence lements.5) The content of the input sentence is not conveyed tothe output sentence.
Clauses and phrases are missing.6) The content of the input sentence is not conveyed atall.
The output is not a proper sentence; subjects andpredicates are missing.
In noun phrases, the mainnoun (the noun positioned last in the Japanese) ismissing, or a clause or phrase acting as a verb andmodifying a noun is missing.As the evaluation umber increases on the above scalefrom 0 to 6, the accuracy decreases.
This part of theevaluation was done by four Japanese translators, eachof whom has one or two years experience in Japanese toEnglish translation.
The whole evaluation process ismonitored by a Japanese translation specialist withextensive xperience in translation work.6.3 RESULTS OF EVALUATIONWe describe here the results of the evaluation of thetranslation of 1,682 sentences taken from the monthlyJICST journal A Current Bibliography of Science andTechnology.
Of these, 791 were the ones often referred tofor the development of the analysis grammar, and theremaining 891 were added as the test material this time.All the sentences were given to the machine translationsystem with no pre-editing.
The 791 sentences formingthe first group were originally selected out of 1000 aftereliminating 120 that contained ungrammatical Japaneseexpressions, and a further 90 that contained long math-ematical or chemical formulae.
The deletion of the latterwas because, in the early stages, the analysis grammarthat would deal with formulae had not been completed.The second group of 891 were all those that were in theabstract, without any such selection.Tables 5 and 6 present he evaluation results for intel-ligibility and accuracy for the two groups of abstracts.Table 7 gives a comparison of the two groups.
As thesystem was not tuned to the sentences in the secondgroup, there were many unknown grammatical structuresand missing words in the dictionary, which made theevaluation result worse than the first group.As these tables show, when the accuracy of translationgoes down, so too does the intelligibility.
We did notfind any examples of intelligibility being low when accu-racy was high, but we did find a reasonable number ofcases where the translation accuracy was evaluated aslow, but intelligibility was rated high.
Table 8 lists typicalsample sentences for each evaluation type.104 Computational Linguistics, Volume I 1, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTTable 5.
Evaluation results for the first group of 791 abstracts.l l nce l l lg ib i l i ty345tota lpercentageof ?o ~.
',1---7-T0Table 6.accuracy1 2 I 3 4 523.6 22.4 12.4 12.4 !
5.8241624368210.4mdo rece ive!
to ta l0 1160 2-;;-93 2591 58Evaluation results for the second group of 891 abstracts.32.712.5i n te l l ig ib i l i ty01 612 03 04 05 0to=oz 61perconCegeof =o.= ~ 6.81014200014115.82722138I0017719.935276824112514.0uccurscy4084435693I0.4I lI5 l 6 defectivef3 7 013 9 026 17 416 37 i 4t7 149 165 219 97.3 24.6j 1.0pe:?en~9=?O~Sl  o f  to~l83 9.3221 24.8297 33.3126 14.1164 18.4891Table 7.
Comparison between first andsecond groups for intelligibility.tn to l l ig i  f i r s t  group soco~ group-~izity 7 9 1 8 9 11 14 .7% 9 .3%2 32 .7~ 24 .8~3 32 .7% 33 .3~4 12 .6% 14 .1~5 7 .3% 18 .4%Table 8.
Typical sample sentences inthe different evaluation categories.accuracy flrst7 g lgr?uP I second group89140 12 .4~ 6 .8~Il 23 .6% 15 .8%2 22 .4% 19 .9~3 12 .4% 14 .0%12 .4~ 10 .4%5 8% 7 3%lO  4% 24  6%0 6% I 0%Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 | 05Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTJust as there are no clear and objective criteria forevaluating the quality of Japanese to English translationsdone by humans, standard criteria for judging the resultsof machine translation have yet to be established.
Theevaluation methods proposed in this paper are still in thetrial stage, and much more refining and improving is stillneeded.The translation quality and the amount of post-editingneeded is closely related to the quality and nature of theoriginal text.
It is quite natural to expect that simplesentences can be translated accurately and intelligibly.We need to develop some way to evaluate the degree ofdifficulty of the original text along with the translationevaluation.
Only within this wider context can accuracyand intelligibility be meaningfully discussed.The JICST abstracts used in this project were writtenprimarily with the aim of condensing as much informa-tion as possible into a few sentences.
This means thatthere are many long sentences, many of which are notvery correct from a linguistic point of view.
This is oneobvious factor contributing to the poor evaluation resultsshown in Tables 5 to 7.Evaluation of the quality of machine-translatedsentences is closely linked to the way in which themachine translation output is to be used, hence to theease with which post-editing can be done.
Only a mini-mum of post-editing will be necessary to convey thetechnical meaning of the original to the specialist in aparticular field for the purpose of information service.However, when the translated text is for wide circulationor publication (for example, technical manuals), style andnaturalness of sentential expressions, as well as exactmeaning, become more important.
Depending on thesesituations, the yardstick for intelligibility will change aswell.ACKNOWLEDGMENTWe are deeply indepted to professor Toyoski Nishida(Kyoto University), Mr. Yoshiyuki Sakamoto (ETL),Tsuyoshi Toriumi (JICST), and Masayuki Sato (JICST) fortaking part in this project, and to many other people fromprivate companies for their help in the development ofthe system.
We are grateful to the Science and Technol-ogy Agency and to the Agency of Engineering Technolo-gy for their constant funding of and guidance for theproject.
Professors Yutaka Kusanagi, Shinobu Takamat-su, Makoto Hirai, and others gave us comments duringthe development of the system.REFERENCESNagao, Makoto; Nishida, Toyoaki; and Tsujii, Jun-ichi 1984 Dealingwith the Incompleteness of Linguistic Knowledge in LanguageTranslation.
In Proceedings of COL1NG 84, Stanford University,California: 420-427.Nakamura, Jun-ichi; Tsujii, Jun-ichi; and Nagao, Makoto 1984 Gram-mar Writing System (GRADE) of Mu-Machine Translation Projectand its Characteristics.
In Proceedings of COLING 84, StanfordUniversity, California: 338-343.Sakamo, Yoshiyuki 1984 Lexicon Features for Japanese SyntacticAnalysis in Mu-Project-JE.
In Proceedings ofCOLING 84, StanfordUniversity, California: 338-343.Tsujii, Jun-ichi; Nakamura, Jun-ichi; and Nagao, Makoto 1984 Analy-sis Grammar of Japanese in the Mu-Project.
In Proceedings ofCOLING 84, Stanford University, California: 338-343.The following addendum is in rough form as it arrived just as the issue was going to press.Recent achievement of the translation evaluation (as of September 1985), - .
t , ib .
i t~ 0 1 2 3 41 256 1 34 13 62 1 274 36 31 263 0 0 157 87 794 0 0 19 39 605 0 0 2 3 18?
1 1?
.,-.~ 257 275 248 174 190" ' " ' " .
t  ,.0,~,~ 19.SZ21.2119.11I3.4~t!I4.614.7Z i .
lg6 2 0 0 31811 1 0 1 38126 29 0 6 38416 24 1 3 1622 10 0 0 3518 2O61 66 1 28 1300) .
Ig  .~.~.~4.5~1~.9.31Z9.51L2.5~Z.
?ZL.5Z106 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTAPPENDIX ATRANSLATIONS AND THEIR INTELLIGIBILITY EVALUATION RESULTSIntel l ig ibi l i ty = lNO.
535:E82060091 3 1~ ~ i ~ v ~ h = u  7 h I~?~ ~, ~ I~-~.~,  ~ ?
~ S ~ ~ ( : ~  b~oDis t r ibut ions  o f  s i ze ,  charged  par t i c le  dens i ty  and e lec t r i c  f ie lds  o f  d r i f t  cur rents  dur ing  the  h ighf requency  non-seL f - sus ta in ing  d i scharge  were s tud ied  numer icaLLy .NO.
87 :E82060092 4 1~ b~l~,~ = ~ ~ ~ v ) ~ , = t z ~ i 7  " ~ ~ ~I~ b'd;@~ b, ~f~l~,~-d~ < oCond i t ions  fo r  rea l i z ing  s tab i l i zed  s imuLtaneousLy-operated  arcs  a re  ana lyzed  as non-baLanced br idge  c i rcu i t s ,and the  so lu t ion  i s  made by us ing  computers .NO.
97 :E82060095 5 1~ ~: c~=c ~" ~ ' -~?~i~ ~ ~ - F - ~ ~ I :  ?
-~~ < oMass, charges ,  momentum and energy  preservat ion  fo rmulas  a re  so lved  by the  i te ra t iue  f in i te  d i f fe rent ia lmethod under  appropr ia te  boundary  cond i t ions .Intelligibility = 2NO.
81:E82060020 3 1CompLex ampl i tudes  and equ iva lent  sur face  cur rent  d i s t r ibut ion  o f  the  sur face  waves fo rmed by the  d i f f rac t iono f  the  p lane  waves emi t ted  to  d ie lec t r i c  p la tes  in  vacua are  found by numer ica l  so lu t ions  o f  in tegra lequat ions .NO.
86:E82060020 6As the  p lane  wave ar r iva l  d i rec t ion  i s  c lose  to  tangents ,  the  nonun i fo rm component ampl i tude  o f  so lu t ions  inthe ne ighborhood o f  the  i r regu lar  sect ion  i s  inc reased ,  and the  number o f  cont r ibut ions  o f  the scat ter ing  byedges increases .NO.
87 :E82060021 3 1MuLt ipL ie r  photo  tube  cur rent  spect rum root -mean-square  va lues  have the  per iod ic i ty  when f reez ing  hyootheses~re  es tab l i shed  in  the  in tens i ty  f luc tuat ion .Intel l ig ib i l i ty  = 3NO.
102:E82060026 3 1SpecuLar  po in ts  o f  the  conductor  sur faces  when wave sources  and observat ion  po in ts  a re  g iven  have to  be knownwhen geometr i ca l  opt i cs  theor ies  a re  app l ied  to  the  caLcuLat ion  o f  re f lec ted  waves.N3.
107:E82060025 4 1f~ ~ 7 cg~l~-~-~ ~-  v H 0 0 cg~J~ < ( = ~  -'< 9 h s ~  b~: l~,~-~ h ~ ~ b ~ 6 ~I t  WaS done that  the  mot ion  o f  charged  par t i c les  accompan ies  the  d i f f rac t ive  rad ia t ion  burs ts  which f requencyspect ra  concent ra ted  in  the  ne ighborhood o f  f requenc ies  o f  quas i - s ta t i c  resonance  mode H O0 be obv ious .go.
108:E82060025 5 I , .
B~ ~ s~ ?
-  t ~ t ~ , ~  ~ ~ h L~<~ ~ ~?~-7-1~~o~- -~1~t  ~oAs ~or the  rad ia t ion  energy  i t  i s  maximum when par t i c les  f l y  resonator  coup led  s lo ts ,  and the  nonun i fo rmi tyo f  the  par t i c le  in t r ins ic  e lec t romagnet ic  f ie ld  i s  re f lec ted .Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 107Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nak~mura Japanese Government Project for MTIntelligibility = 4NO.
62 :E82060011 3 I~ as fo r  causes  o f  generat ion  o f  charges  in  every  p lace  o f  the  L iv ing  env i ronment  and the  Indust r ia lenv i ronment ,  and fo rms,  conduct iv i ty ,  d ie lec t r i c  constants ,  humid i ty  o f  sur faces ,  and so on are  impor tantas weLL as mater ia l s  and movement.NO.
47 :E82060012 S 1There  were many cases  in  which the  par ts  ex is t  wh ich  ~ in  rea l  machine be axt -symmetr ic  but  cor rec t ionfac tors  were in t roduced fo r  the  modeLin9 o f  th~s  case ,  and i t  was incorporated  in  non l inear  i te ra t ivecomputat ions .NO.
SO: E82060013 ; IThe equ iampt i tude  d is t r ibut ion  o f  the  spat ia l  compos i te  e lec t r i c  f ie lds  and magnet ic  f ie lds  to  in terva ls  o fthe  conduct in  9 cy l inders  and rad i i  o f  the  conduct ing  cy l inder  in  f ront  rear  scat ter ing  c ross  sect ion  and thene ighborhood o f  the  cy l inder  was shown, and character i s t i cs  o f  scat ter ing  waves were done be obv ious  ~hen theemiss ion  was made f rom s ides  and ar ray  d i rec t ions .Inte l l ig ib i l i ty  = 5NO.
352:E82060195 S 1The var ious  inser t ion  machine t i LL  automat ic  fo rming  mach ines  i s  in t roduced by the  manual operat ion .NO.
366:E82060200 3 17 ?
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~\ [ \ ]~t~L~/~t~,  ~-~' - .~-  v~i~,~l~ l :~ J~ ~oZntegrated  c i rcu i t s  p roceed in  the  pr in ted  w i r ing  i t se l f ,  and the  w i r ing  o f  the  mother  board  reverse  i sma in ly  the  wire  wrapp ing .NO.
367:E82060200 4 IRat ios  o f  the  w i r ing  by automat ic  iach inea  increased ,  and they  became more than  two tw ice  o f  the  manualoperat ion .APPENDIX BTRANSLATIONS AND THEIR ACCURACY EVALUATION RESULTSAccuracy = 0NO.
70 :E82060017 3 1The re f lec t ion  o f  space loduLated  waves f ro .
,  the  p lane  nonhomogeneous medium wi th  smaLL-scaLe heterogene i tyi s  s tud ied .NO.
73 :E82060017 7 1RefLect ion  character i s t i cs  o f  per iod icaLLy  modu la ted  s igna ls  f ro .
,  media o f  random nonhomogeneoua Layers  a res tud ied .NO.
7k:  E82060018 2 1Mean va lues  o f  o rdered  products  o f  two funct iona \ [s .108 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTAccuracy = 1NO.
77:E82060018 6 1~:?
;~, : lZ~j~ - ~ ~, ~ -~ : / h " d ~ ,  ~1~O a u s s ~ ~ l ~ l ~ ' ~  ~oHigh-order  averages  of  responses  a re  expressed  by the ord ina l  cumulant ,  and the Gauss character i s t i c  ofphys ica l  systems can be u t i l i zed  to the  u tmost .80.
78 :E82060019 2 1Uni form asymptot i c  character i s t i cs  of  e lec t romagnet ic  f ie lds  in  ha l f  shadows of  t ransversa l  waves.NO.
79:E82060019 ~ 1Uni form asymptot i c  equat ions  of  the  f ie lds  es tab l i shed  in  a rb i t ra ry  d i s tances  from the ha l f  shadow reg ion  oft ransversa l  waves by the ana lys i s  of  asymptot i c  character i s t i cs  of  cor rec t  answers of  the re f lec t ion  f ie ldpotent ia l  were obta ined .Accuracy = 280 172:E82060044 2 1The ana lys i s  of  acce le ra ted  charged f ie lds  to  b radyoh ic  and tachyon ic  par ts .NO.
176:E820600~5_3_1Tt i s  impor tant  from research  and severa l  app l i ca t ions  of  dynamics of  e lec t ron  beams to  know the ang led i s t r ibut ion  of  e lec t rons  in  c i rcu la r  acce le ra tors .80.
182:E82060046 5 1The cur rent  dens i ty  under the cuto f f  i s  g iven  by funct ions  of  vo l tages  and gap d i s tances ,  and the cur rentdens i ty  under the cuto f f  cont rad ic ts  exper iments .Accuracy = 3NO.
271:E82060070 4_1Rea l i za t ion  cond i t ions  inc lude  ia t r i ces ,  and bas ic  d i f fe rences  between s ing le -var iab le  networks  are  s t ressedmut t ivar iab le .NO.
30 :E82060071 4 1Severa l  examples of  the log ica l  compos i t ion  a re  g iven  a f te r  descr ib ing  out l ines  such as methods fo rconnect ion  of  the  s lave  s ide  and requests  fo r  s laves .NO.
36 :E82060072 5 1Next ,  p roduct ion  and market tn9  s i tuat ions  of  the  fu ture  expans ib i l i ty  and system e lements  are  descr ibed  a f te rd i scuss ing  d iagnost i c  funct ions .Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 109Makoto Nagao, Jun-ichi Tsujii, Jun-ichi Nakamura Japanese Government Project for MTAccuracy = 4NO.
31 :E82060071 5 1The ~J~ address  togtcat  c i rcu i t s  and data  cont ro l  c i rcu i t s  execut ing  the  s tave  log ic  next  a re  shown.NO.
44 :E82060075 k IThe er ror  cor rec t ion  i s  car r ied  out  by process ing  the  measur ing  te rmina l  output  d ig i ta l l y ,  and measurementexamples  such as re f lec t ion  coef f i c ients  o f  cab le  connectors  and losses  a t  the  t ime o f  the  mismatch ing  aredescr ibed ,  and the  accuracy  i s  a l so  re fered  to .NO.
57 :E82060079 6 ~.Re la ted  equat ions  were based on the  in tegra l  type  o f  taws o f  e lec t romagnet ic  f ie ld  as methods by us ing  f in i ted i f fe rent ia l  methods .Accuracy = 5NO.
203:E82060051 8 1The asymptot i c  s tab i l i ty  in  the  reg ions  by which  there  i s  an un ique  se l f -exc i ted  v ib ra t ion  network  o f  the  DCso lu t ion  and fo r  g iv ing  the  un ique  se l f -exc i ted  v ib ra t ion  network  o f  the  DC so lu t ion  can be d i scussed .NO.
213:E82060054 7 1 ~ l ~  ~<~b-~-~,8~ ~ ~ n ~ - - h ~ ~  ~ \ ] ~ 0 ~  ~ ~ t ~Th is  cond i t ion  becomes the  expans ion  o f  pass iv i ty  and toss tessness  cond i t ions  o f  t ime reg ion  and f requencyreg ion  o f  L inear  and t ime- invar iab le  we l t  known concent ra ted  constant  n -por t  networks  to  non l inear  cases .NO.
222:E82060056 6 1E lec t r i c  c i rcu i t s  a re  ~ i~-~ ed by us ing  system equations mainly i n  th i s  method.Accuracy = 6NO.
630:E82060176 S 1I t  becomes the  length  o f  At tubes  o~ more than  100 km in  who les ,  and j unct ions  and ins ta l la t ion  methods areshown, and in t roduced as app l i ca t ion  examples  u t i l i z ing  features  o f  the  At .NO.
309:E82060182 3 1Unl ike  convent iona l  in teract ive  sys tems,  p in  pos i t ions  a re  d ig i t i zed  be manua l ,  and they  do not  have to  beinput ted .NO.
310:E82060182 4 1~,~,  ~y~, ~,P~I :~8~~N~(=~8oP in  d imens ions  by p in  pos i t ions ,  number o f  p ins  and cur rent  capac i ty  a re  opt imized  automat ica l ly .NO.
326:E82060188 3 1The so lder ing  fo rms above-ment ioned  compounds in  in ter faces .110 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985
