SPANAM AND ENGSPAN:  MACHINE TRANSLATIONAT THE PAN AMERICAN HEALTH ORGANIZATIONMuriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie Le6n 1Pan American Health Organization525 Twenty-third Street, N.W.Washington, D.C. 200371 PROJECT H ISTORY AND CURRENT STATUS1.1 OVERVIEWSpanish-English machine translation (SPANAM) has beenoperational at the Pan American Health Organization(PAHO) since 1980.
As of May 1984, the system'sservices had been requested by 87 users under 572 joborders, and the project's total output corresponded to7,040 pages (1.76 million words) that had actually beenused in the service of PAHO's activities.
The translationprogram runs on an IBM mainframe computer (4341DOS/VSE), which is used for many other purposes aswell.
Texts are submitted and retrieved using the ordi-nary word-processing workstation (Wang OIS/140) as aremote job-entry terminal.
Production is in batch modeonly.
The input texts come from the regular flow ofdocumentation i  the Organization, and there are norestrictions as to field of discourse or fype of syntax.
Atrained full-time post-editor, working at the screen,produces polished output of standard professional qualityat a rate between two and three times as fast as tradi-tional translation (4,000-10,000 words a day versus1,500-3,000 for human translation).
The post-editedoutput is ready for delivery to the user with no furtherpreparation required.The SPANAM program is written in PL/I.
It isexecuted on the mainframe at speeds as high as 700words per minute in clock time (172,800 words an hourin CPU time), and it runs with a size parameter of 215 K.Its source and target dictionaries (60,150 and 57,315entries, respectively, as of May 1984) are on permanent-ly mounted isks and occupy about 9 MB each.While SPANAM continues to build its reputation as awork horse, at the same time development is welladvanced on a parallel system that translates fromEnglish into Spanish, ENGSPAN.
Also written in PL/I,ENGSPAN uses essentially the same modular systemarchitecture that has been developed for SPANAM, but itis conceived on the basis of up-to-date linguistic theoryleading to rule-based strategies for the parsing of syntac-tic and semantic information.
The overall policy is toregularly upgrade SPANAM as breakthroughs becomeavailable in the more sophisticated ENGSPAN.
In thisway it has been possible to maintain ongoing productionwith SPANAM while its capabilities are graduallyenhanced and expanded.
Because of this dynamic modeof development, information about the theoretical statusof either SPANAM or ENGSPAN is necessarily short-lived.1.2 EARLY HISTORY: 1976-1979The Pan American Health Organization, with headquar-ters in Washington, D.C., is the specialized internationalagency in the Americas that has responsibility for actionin the field of public health.
It comes under the umbrel-las of both the Inter-American System and the UN fami-ly, serving in the latter instance as Regional Office of theWorld Health Organization.
In addition to its headquar-ters staff of 546 in Washington, PAHO has a field staff of652 that supports both the operational programs in its 10Pan American centers, located in eight different coun-tries, and its 30 representational offices, in 28 countries.Business may be conducted in any of the four officiallanguages: Spanish, English, Portuguese, and French.The translation demand is greatest into Spanish, whichover the years has corresponded .to more than half thetotal workload, and, after that~ into English.
Thedemand for Portuguese is considerably smaller, and thereis only an occasional requirement for French.In 1975 the Organization's administrators undertook afeasibility study and determined that MT might be ameans of reducing the expenditure for translation.
Therewas already a mainframe computer, then an IBM 360, atthe headquarters ite, and the decision was made tol Respectively, Chief, Terminology and Machine Translation Program,PAHO, and Senior Computational Linguist, Machine TranslationProject, PAHO.Copyright1985 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided thatthe copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
To copyotherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or  specific permission.0362-613X/85/020122-136503.00122 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Muriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie Learn SPANAM and ENGSPANdevelop an MT system that would run on this installationon a time-sharing basis.
Work was to focus on the Span-ish-English and English-Spanish combinations.
Theeffort was to be supported under the Organization'sregular budget.The intention from the outset was that MT shouldarticulate with the routine flow of text in PAHO.
Post-editing was considered to be unavoidable, since thesystem would have to deal with free syntax, with anyvocabulary normally used in the Organization, and, intime, with a large range of subjects and different genresof discourse.
No serious thought was given to a mode ofoperation that would require pre-editing.Initial work was begun in 1976.
A team of three part-time consultants worked for the Organization for twoyears, and one of these consultants remained with theproject for a third year.
In the beginning the approachdrew upon a number of the principles that had evolved atGeorgetown University in the late 1950s and early 1960sin the course of work on the Russian-English systemknown as GAT (Georgetown Automatic Translation,described in Zarechnak 1979).The first language combination to be addressed wasSpanish-English.
The consultants had opted for thisdirection recognizing that results could be available arli-er than if they had started with English as the source.Parallel efforts were concentrated on the architectureitself of the system and the extensive supporting soft-ware.
The period 1976-1978 saw the mounting of thisarchitecture and the writing of a basic algorithm for thetranslation of Spanish into English.
At the end of threeyears the Spanish-English algorithm was in place, as wellas eight other PL/I support programs that performed avariety of related tasks.
The Spanish source dictionaryhad been built to a level of 48,000 entries (at that timethe verbs required full-form entries), with correspondingEnglish glosses in the separate target dictionary.
Workon the dictionaries was supported by mnemonic, user-friendly software developed in 1978-1979 to facilitatethe operations of updating, side-by-side printing, andretrieval of individual records.
A corpus of about 50,000words had been translated from Spanish into English.Efforts from English into Spanish had produced one pageof text.Human resources during the period 1976-1978consisted of the three part-time consultants together withPAHO's contribution in the form of dictionary manpower(total of 24 staff-months in the three-year period) and,starting in 1977, half-time participation of the staffterminologist, who assumed the responsibility of coordi-nation.
A full-time computational linguist was recruitedand assigned to the project in 1979.The year 1980 was a turning point for MT at PAHO.Advances came together which made it possible to moveinto a production mode.
To begin with, the computa-tional linguist took full charge of the system software,replacing the consultants.
Up to that time productionhad not been feasible because there was no morphologi-cal analysis of verbs: the failure to find a high percent-age of inflected verbs had meant that many sentences inrandom text were barred from even the most rudimentaryanalysis.
Thus the first order of business was to developthe needed morphological lookup.At the same time, the operational problems of textinput, another major impediment o production, werealso resolved.
An interface stablished between the IBMmainframe and the Organization's word-processing facili-ty (then a Wang System 30) enabled MT to take its placein the text-processing chain and tap into a large body oftext that had been made machine-readable for otherpurposes.
A conversion program was written whichhandled the differences in representation of characters,solved ambiguities of punctuation, and made certain deci-sions about the format.
From the time this program wasinstalled, any Spanish text that had been keyed onto theword processor, regardless of the purpose for which itwas entered, was available for machine translation.1.3 OPERATIONAL PHASE: 1980-PRESENTAs production gained momentum, the MT staff wasincreased by the assignment of a full-time post-editor andby greater participation of the terminologist as head ofthe project.Over the next two years, the sources of machine-read-able text for SPANAM increased at a steady pace.
Theuse of word processing at PAHO expanded, and, in addi-tion, another mode of input became possible throughoptical character recognition (OCR).
Whereas word proc-essing had previously been restricted to special servicesprovided by a typing pool, after the installation of word-processing hardware throughout he headquarters build-ing (Wang OIS/140), all program units eventually cameto participate in the text-processing chain.
Furthermore,the optical character eader (a Compuscan AlphawordII), previously used only for Telex transmission, wasinterfaced with the word-processing system; this meantthat existing typewriters could also be used as inputdevices, and therefore that texts could be prepared in thefield and machine-read in Washington.With accelerated production, improvements toSPANAM have followed in tandem.
From the beginningit has been the policy, and continues to be so today, thatthe output from production serves not only to meet thepurpose for which it was requested but also to providefeedback for further development of the algorithm anddictionaries.
As post-editing proceeds, note is made ofrecurring problems at all levels.
Capture of this informa-tion at the time of post-editing saves much work later on.The messages written by the post-editor on the side-by-side text serve as a basis both for updating the diction-aries and for making enhancements, as feasible, in thealgorithm.In this way the Spanish source dictionary had grown toa total of 60,120 entries as of May 1984.
Of this total,94% were bases or stems and 6% were full forms, allwith corresponding entries in the English target.
SinceComputational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 123Muriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie LeOn SPANAM and ENGSPAN1981 the incidence of not-found words in random texthas been well under 1% - limited usually to propernames, scientific names, new acronyms, and nonceformations.
Through coordination with the terminologyside of the program, the glosses have been increasinglytailored to the specific requirements of PAHO.
In addi-tion, microglossaries have been established for varioususers, so that specialized translations can be elicited.In its four years of operation, SPANAM has becomenot only wiser but more efficient as well.
The program'sspeed of run time has increased from 160 words perminute to over 700 wpm.
Yet the algorithm, even thoughit has sustained a major reorganization into modularstructure and regularly undergoes enhancement, remainsapproximately the same size (2,085 statements as of May1984).Further details about the working environment ofSPANAM are given in sections 2 and 6.1.4 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT SPANAM/ENGSPAN:1981-PRESENTIn early 1981 a long-range strategy was decided on forthe continued improvement of SPANAM and the develop-ment of a parallel system from English into Spanish.Two consultants from Georgetown University, ProfessorsRoss Macdonald and Michael Zarechnak, undertookseparate evaluations of SPANAM at that time.
Theirrecommendations led to the adoption of a combinedworking mode in which improvements were to be intro-duced in SPANAM according to a predetermined schedulewhile at the same time development began on the othersystem, ENGSPAN.
Recognizing that each languagecombination imposed a different set of linguistic priori-ties, the consultants nevertheless emphasized that greatlyexpanded parsing was needed in both cases, especially inthe analysis of English as a source language.
Such pars-ing, in turn, called for revision of the dictionary record inorder to allow for a broader range of syntactic andsemantic oding.
It was felt that the basic modular archi-tecture of SPANAM, as well as the dictionary record in itsessential format, should also be used for ENGSPAN.
Acommon architecture for the two systems meant hat theycould continue to share the same supporting software.Thus, improvements could migrate readily from onesystem to the other; it wouid be easy for them to cross-fertilize.Having adopted this approach to development, witheach side to benefit systematically from the work beingdone on the other, the project addressed its attention in1981 to the enhancements hat had been recommendedfor SPANAM.
Then, as the SPANAM effort tapered off,time was devoted increasingly to ENGSPAN.
By the endof 1982, the ENGSPAN program and dictionaries (about40,000 source entries, most of them with acceptableglosses in the Spanish target) were in place.Translation from English into Spanish has specialimportance for public health in the developing countries,and this fact provided the incentive for seeking extrabud-getary support from the U.S. Agency for InternationalDevelopment (AID).
In August 1983, AID gave theOrganization a two-year grant for the accelerated evel-opment of ENGSPAN.
2 This funding has made it possibleto have a second computational linguist for the grantperiod, as well as consultants and part-time dictionaryassistants who have undertaken specific tasks within theapproved plan of work.With the added manpower, the project has madesignificant progress on the English-Spanish algorithm.Particular focus has been placed on the development of aparser using an augmented transition network (ATN),which as of April 1984 was integrated into the rest of theENGSPAN program.
The dictionary record has beenmodified, without any increase in its overall size, so thatit can now accommodate 211 fields, as compared with 82in the 1980 version of SPANAM.
Deep syntactic andsemantic coding has been introduced for dictionaryentries corresponding to a sizable proportion of theexperimental corpus of 50,000 running words.2 APPLICATION ENVIRONMENT2.1 PRE-EDITING POLICYAs indicated above, it has always been expected that theoutput of SPANAM and ENGSPAN would have to bepost-edited.
There was no application of MT at PAHOfor which a customized language would be feasible.Since post-editing was inevitable, it was felt that a pre-editing step would be anti-economic: the advantages tobe gained would not be sufficient o offset the added costof a second human pass.
Moreover, in order for pre-edit-ing to be worthwhile, the process would have to draw ona high degree of linguistic sophistication, and adequatemanpower for this purpose would be scarce: the pre-edi-tor would need to be well prepared not only in trans-lation skills but also in knowledge of the algorithm, or atleast a number of its capabilities and limitations.Thus, pre-editing in the linguistic sense has been ruledout for SPANAM and ENGSPAN.
In theory, a documentcan be sent for execution by SPANAM without being seenby any human eyes.
If the operator has keyed in theoriginal Spanish document using normal in-house typingconventions, no adjustments whatsoever are required.With inexperienced operators, however, and with textsread automatically by the OCR, the precaution is taken tocheck the format, particularly the line-spacing and pagewidth, since deviations from the standard at that levelcan disrupt the work of the algorithm.Production texts are run only once.
Demonstrationsare always performed on random text.2 Grant BPE-5542-G-SS-3048-00, awarded to the Pan AmericanHealth Organization under letter dated 3 August 1983.124 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Muriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie Le6n SPANAM and ENGSPAN2.2 POST-EDITING POLICY2.2.1 GENERAL POSITIONThe multifaceted approach to post-editing is an impor-tant feature of SPANAM.
On one level, consideration isgiven to the user's needs and capabilities and to thepurpose of the translation.
At the same time, specificlinguistic strategies developed by the project are oftenused in order to minimize the recasting of certainunwieldy constructions which frequently recur - mainlythe result of verbs in sentence-initial position in Spanish.Finally, there is a series of word-processing aids that helpto speed up the physical process of editing and to dealwith pragmatic decisions in the SPANAM output whichare not handled by syntactic rules.The degree of post-editing is determined by:1. the purpose of the translation,2.
the user's own resources for editing,3.
the time frame, and4.
structural linguistic considerations in the text itself.A text may be needed for information only, for publica-tion, or for a variety of uses between these two extremes.If it is to be edited by the requesting office, only the mostglaring problems are dealt with by the post-editor.
Onthe other hand, if it is to be published without muchfurther review, the post-editor devotes careful attentionto the quality of the text.
These factors are determinedin a conference with the user at the time the job issubmitted.
As to time constraints, it may happen that thework has to be delivered under considerable pressure:information-only translations of 20-25 pages may have tobe delivered within a couple of hours, and once a40-page proposal for funding was delivered in polishedform the same day it was requested.
With translation forpublication, however, longer periods are negotiated.Contrary to what might be deduced from the nature ofPAHO's mission, SPANAM is asked to cope with a widerange of subject areas and types of text.
There havebeen: documents for meetings, international agreements,technical and administrative r ports, proposals for fund-ing, summaries and protocols for international databases, journal articles and abstracts, publishedproceedings of scientific meetings, training manuals,letters, lists of equipment, material for newsletters - evenfilm scripts.In an open, "try-anything" (Lawson 1982:5) systemsuch as SPANAM, with its highly varied applications,experience has led to the conclusion that post-editingrequires a trained professional translator.
WhereasMartin Kay (1982:74) suggests that the person whointerprets machine output "would not have to be a trans-lator and could quite possibly be drawn from a muchlarger segment of the labor pool", the SPANAM experi-ence suggests that this conclusion would be valid only fortechnical experts working on a text for informationpurposes only.
Even in such cases, the technicians atPAHO are encouraged to request a more careful trans-lation of passages that are of particular interest.Only an experienced translator will be aware of thewords whose variable meanings are dependent on extra-linguistic context.
For example proyecto in Spanish canmean 'project', 'proposal', or 'draft', and the choicedepends on full knowledge of the situation to which thetext refers.
Esperar can mean 'hope' or 'expect', and thedistinction is essential in English - sometimes evencrucial.
Such ambiguities require the attention of a trans-lator with training, experience, good knowledge of thesubject matter vocabulary in both languages, and a tech-nical understanding of what is meant by the text.
Only aperson with this combined background is in a position tomake the choices that will fully reflect the intention ofthe original author.
Another area in which the transla-tor's role is important is in interpretation of the degree ofintensity associated with relative terms.
For example,trascendente in Spanish can have much less force than itsEnglish cognate, and the entire tone of a message may beover- or underdrawn, depending on the interpretationgiven to a key term of this nature.
Indeed, it has beenthe experience of SPANAM that users, even technicalexperts, can misinterpret he glosses appearing in themachine output and assign an altogether incorrect mean-ing in the process of "correcting" the text.
The role ofthe experienced translator is not to be underestimated.2.2.2 LINGUISTIC STRATEGIESIn addition to experience in the interpretation of nuances,the post-editor needs a strong linguistic background inorder to master the particular strategies that have provedto be effective in the processing of SPANAM output.
Forthe inexperienced post-editor, the most time-consumingtask is the recasting that is deemed to be "required"when machine-translated constructions turn out to beungrammatical or intolerably awkward in the Englishoutput.
SPANAM has addressed this problem by devel-oping a series of "quick-fix" post-editing expedients(QFP) for dealing with the typical problems of Spanish-to-English translation.
For example, certain maneuversare suggested as being useful in the case of fronted verbconstructions in Spanish, which occur frequently andpresent difficulties for the standard SVO pattern inEnglish.
The purpose of the QFP is to minimize thenumber of steps required in order to make the sentencework.
Since it was a V(S)O construction that triggeredthe problem in the first place, any solution that avoidsreordering will necessarily depart from one-on-onesyntactic fit.
In other words, in the example of the front-ed verb, one might try to see if the opening phrase, whichwill be a discourse adjunct, a cognitive adjunct (termsfrom Halliday 1967), or the main verb itself, could benominalized so that it might serve as the subject of thesentence in English.
Such an approach manages topreserve in the theme position (Halliday 1967) the cogni-tive material which had been thematic in the source text,usually with a parallel effect on the focus position as well(Vasconcellos 1985b).
For this reason, the result is oftenquite satisfactory, even compared with a translation thatComputational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 125Muriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie Leon SPANAM and ENGSPANis syntactically more "faithful" (see Section 6 below andalso Vasconcellos, in preparation)?
The examples belowcompare QFPs with solutions that were actually proposedby translator-post-editors (traditional human translation- THT).In example (1), the semantic ontent of the frontedverb is reworked into a noun phrase that can serve as thesubject of the sentence.
Time is saved by leaving therheme of the sentence untouched; only a few characters,highlighted inside the box, were changed.
Moreover,additional speed was gained by making changes from leftto right, in the same direction in which the text is beingreviewed.
(1) Durante 1983 se inici6 ya la transformaci6npaulatina de estos planteamientos enacciones.MT: During 1983 t~e \[ was initiated already \[ thegradual transformation f these proposals intoactions.THT: During 1983 these proposals already began to begradually transformed into actions.
(62keystrokes)QFP: During 1983 \[ progress began toward \[ thegradual transformation f these proposals intoactions.
(27 keystrokes)In example (2), on the other hand, the adjunct itself isnominalized, again with a significant saving of time andkeystrokes.
(2) En este estudio se buscarfi contestar dos preguntasfundamentales:MT: ~ this study \[ it will be sought \[ toanswer two fundamental questions:THT: In this study answers to two fundamental ques-tions will be sought: (53 keystrokes)QFP: This study l, seeks | to answer two fundamentalquestions: (14 keystrokes)Use of the foregoing approach, wherever feasible,adds up to substantial economy, with apparently little orno deterioration in the quality of the translation (seeSection 6 below)?
However, knowing when and how tomake such changes requires considerable skill.
This isone more reason why the post-editor should have astrong background both in translation and, if possible, inhngulsttcs as well?It is always emphasized in SPANAM that editorialchanges hould be kept to the minimum needed in orderto make the output intelligible and acceptable for itsintended purpose?2.2.3 WORD-PROCESSING STRATEGIESThe SPANAM post-editors work directly on-screen.Experience has shown that post-editing on hard copy,with the changes entered by a "word-processingoperator", is not a highly efficient mode.
Accordingly,attention has also been given to speeding up the post-editby automating as many of the recurring operations aspossible.The SEARCH-and-REPLACE function on the wordprocessor is heavily used in post-editing.
In addition,SPANAM has a set of special aids developed for thepurposes of MT.
Besides a full set of possible wordswitches ( lx l ,  l x2 ,  2x l ,  2x2,  l x3 ,  3x l ,  3x3,  etc.
),there are routines that deal with the character strings thatmost often have to be changed in SPANAM output?
Forexample, only a single "glossary" keystroke is needed toperform the following editorial operations:SEAR CH-and-DELETE:the, of, there, to, in order toSEAR CH-and-REPLA CE:from~of, for~of, for~by, in order to - / for  -ing, a/the,which~that, who~that, every~each, among~between, suchas~as, some of the~someThe inventory can be changed or expanded at will.2.2.4 OTHER TIME-SAVERSFrom the discussion above, it can be seen that speed inpost-editing is achieved by a combination of strategies.Some of the points made may appear on the surface to bealmost trivial, but yet they can add up to a significantdifference?
One example of an apparently trivial factor isthe method of positioning the cursor under the string tobe-modified.
Delays at this point can add up to a surpris-ing proportion of total time spent on post-editing, sincethey will occur with every change that is made.
Informalexperiments suggest hat the most efficient approach forpositioning the cursor is to always use the SEARCH key.The "mouse" and the light pencil appear to be less effec-tive.
The slowest method, unfortunately, seems to be theone that is most often used, namely simple manual strik-ing of the directional keys.
Since people tend to rely onthe directional keys unless otherwise trained, this point isemphasized with the post-editors who work on SPANAM.The staff of the project are constantly on the lookoutfor new ways of saving time.
All tasks are streamlined asmuch as possible?
A series of programs have been devel-oped on the word processor for automating the house-keeping support that has to be done apart frompost-editing, and recently some of this work was madeeven more efficient by passing it on to the mainframecomputer.
Printing is kept to a minimum; finishedproduction is delivered to the user either on a diskette orby a telephone call notifying the office that the job isavailable on the system?2.3 POST-EDITING VIS-a-VIS OTHER ASPECTSOF THE SYSTEMIn the SPANAM environment here is a close linkbetween post-editing and the other aspects of the system.The staff post-editor has been trained to update thedictionaries, and currently almost all the dictionary work126 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Muriei Vasconcellos and Marjorie Le~n SPANAM and ENGSPANon SPANAM is done by this person.
Required changes tothe dictionaries are proposed at the time of post-editing.Hence there is no need to go through the text a secondtime.
Also, glosses and other solutions seem to come tomind most readily when the whole text is actually beingworked on.
The post-editor, if adequately trained inupdating, is in the best position to see what dictionarychanges are necessary in order to deal with the specificconstructions that tend to recur in production trans-lations.The post-editor also alerts the computational linguistto areas where the algorithm needs improvement.2.4 INTEGRATION OF THE SYSTEM INTO A COMPLETETRANSLATION ENVIRONMENTSPANAM/ENGSPAN, the terminology activity, and thetraditional human translation unit are in the process ofbeing merged into a single program of language servicesat PAHO.
While human and machine translation evennow coordinate the workload to a certain extent, as ofMay 1984 there was not yet any centralized screening ofincoming jobs.
It is expected that such a triage will makeit possible to maximize the effectiveness and efficiency ofthe respective services.Combination of the two activities will also make for amore rational utilization of the manpower available atany given time, with the staff being assigned to a varietyof different duties, depending on both needs and skills.It is also a goal to reduce a given person's day in front ofthe screen from eight hours to six through the rotation ofassignments.In the area of management, the SPANAM/ENGSPANprograms on the mainframe computer are also helpingwith labor-intensive operations for which the humantranslation service is responsible: it is already performingautomatic word counts, and spelling check systems arebeing developed for both English and Spanish.In terms of the linguistic work of the human translator,SPANAM/ENGSPAN can help to lighten the load in anumber of ways.
To begin with, technical and scientificterms are retrieved in context, which means that MT is asort of very efficient lexical data base.
With an ordinaryLDB, the translator has to go to the terminal (which isnot usually at his desk for his use alone), sign on, andinitiate a search.
After he has performed all the mechan-ical steps, there is still the possibility that the term is notin the data base at all, and his effort will have been wast-ed.
When this happens repeatedly over time, a cumula-tive frustration builds up.
With SPANAM/ENGSPAN, onthe other hand, not only does the translator know imme-diately what translation has been assigned to the term, heis also told its degree of reliability and whether or not it isin the WHOTERM data base.
The status of the terms isindicated by small superscript symbols which can berequested at the time the text is sent for translation.WHOTERM is also on the word-processing system.
Itsgeneral file contains: a definition of each term inEnglish, translation equivalents in up to four languagesbesides English, synonyms if there are any, a reliabilitycode for the primary term in each language, scope notes,and a subject code.
In addition to the general file, it hasfiles with: names of organizational entities, full equiv-alents for abbreviations, cientific names of pathogens,generic names of drugs in three languages, and chemicalnames of pesticides with trade names cross-referenced tothem (Ahlroth & Lowe 1983).SPANAM also aids the translator with its system ofmicroglossaries for specialized subject areas (see Section4.3 below).
When a text is known to deal with a certainsubject, the translator can request a corresponding micro-glossary which will contain alternate glosses.
One ormore of these microglossaries can be specified at the timethe job is submitted.
The translator can also have amieroglossary of his own in which he can store specialterms he prefers to use.It is also possible for SPANAM to provide alternatechoices in the output entry, such as project/proposal~draft, hope~expect, time~weather, tc., althoughthis is not the regular policy.
These alternatives can bestored in a microglossary.
In the output, the undesiredtranslation is eliminated by striking a single glossary key.If the translator provides feedback in the form ofsuggested or requested changes in the dictionaries, theupdating can be done immediately.
Some of SPANAM'susers have developed the habit of providing regular feed-back, and this means that their translations becomeincreasingly tailored to their specific requirements.While there is no doubt that SPANAM/ENGSPANreach their maximum efficiency when post-editedon-screen, at the same time studies are being done onways in which a translator can dictate his changes o thatthey can be entered by a word-processing operator work-ing from a tape.The human translation service stands to benefit, also,from the sophisticated facilities that have been developedon the word processor for editing and housekeepingsupport.3 GENERAL TRANSLATION APPROACHSince the bulk of the Organization's translation workinvolves only Spanish and English, the machine trans-lation system was developed specifically for this pair oflanguages.
No consideration was given to using theinterlingua pproach.
The broad range of subject areasto be dealt with precluded the use of a knowledge-basedapproach or one based on a representation of the mean-ing of the text.
Although the systems are currentlylanguage-specific, significant portions of the algorithmcould be adapted for use in a system involvingPortuguese or French, the other official languages of theOrganization.
Because SPANAM and ENGSPAN weredeveloped separately, they reflect different theoreticalorientations and utilize different computational tech-niques.
At the same time, they have many features incommon.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 127Muriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie Le6n SPANAM and ENGSPANSPANAM was originally designed as a direct trans-lation system.
The translation is produced through aseries of operations which analyze the Spanish sourcestring, transform the surface structure to produce asyntactic frame for the English target string, substitutethe English glosses indicated by the results of the analy-sis, insert and/or delete certain grammatical morphemes,and synthesize the required endings on the Englishwords.
The principal stages involved in the translationalgorithm are: morphological analysis and single-wordlookup, gap analysis, multi-word unit lookup, homographresolution, subject identification, treatment of prep-ositions, object pronoun movement, verb string analysis,subject insertion, do-insertion, noun phrase rearrange-ment, target lookup, target synthesis.ENGSPAN is a lexical and syntactic transfer systembased on the slot-and-filler approach to language struc-ture.
It performs a separate analysis of the Englishsource string, applies transfer routines based on thecontrastive analysis of English and Spanish, and thensynthesizes the Spanish target string.
The principal stag-es of this algorithm are: morphological analysis andsingle-word lookup, gap analysis, substitution and analy-sis unit lookup, sentence-level parse, transfer unit lookup,target lookup, syntactic transfer, and target synthesis.The program includes backup modules for homographresolution, verb string analysis, and noun phrase analysis,which are called in if the sentence-level parse is unsuc-cessful.4 LINGUISTIC TECHNIQUES4.1 MORPHOLOGICAL ANALYSISSPANAM's morphological lookup procedure makes itpossible to find most Spanish words in their stem forms.The algorithm recognizes plural and feminine endings fornouns, pronouns, determiners, quantifiers, and adjec-tives; person, number and tense endings for verbs; andderivational endings such as -mente/-ly.
Bound cliticpronouns are separated from verb forms, and any accentmark related to the presence of the clitic is removed.Another subroutine adds missing accent marks when thesource word is written with an initial capital or in all capi-tal letters.
The components of compounds formed withhyphens or slashes are looked up as separate words.
Afew prefixes are also removed from words without ahyphen.ENGSPAN's morphological nalysis procedure, knownas LEMMA, is called if the full-form is not found in thedictionary and the word consists of at least four alpha-betic characters.
This procedure checks for the presenceof a number of different endings, including -'s, -s; -s, -ly,-ed, -ing, -er, -est, and -n't.
Each time an ending isremoved, the new form of the word is looked up.LEMMA uses morphological nd spelling rules and shortlists of exceptions in order to determine when to removeor add a final -e, when the word ends in a double conso-nant, etc.
If a lemmatized form of the word is found inthe dictionary, its record is checked to make sure that itspart of speech corresponds with the ending which wasremoved.
If LEMMA exhausts all its possibilities, theword is checked against a small list of prefixes (re-, non-,un-, sub-, and pre-).
If one of these prefixes can beremoved, another lookup is performed.
If this final look-up is unsuccessful, a dummy record is created for theword and a gap analysis routine is called.
"Not-found"words are initially considered to be nouns and given thepossibility of also functioning as verbs and adjectives.Information from both LEMMA and derivational suffixesis used in order to confirm or reassign the main part ofspeech, as well as to confirm, remove, or add possibilitiesfor ambiguities.The lookup strategy used in both SPANAM andENGSPAN keeps down the size of the dictionary whileallowing a good deal of flexibility.
The dictionary coderhas the option of entering a word in its full form, in oneor more of its inflected forms, or in its stem form.
Withirregular forms and homographs, the full form must beused.
For example, in the Spanish source dictionary theonly entries for the word esperar are the stem esper andthe verb/noun homograph espera.
The English sourcedictionary contains an entry for expect and unexpected,but not for expects, expected, expecting, or unexpectedly.4.2 HOMOGRAPH RESOLUTIONSPANAM deals with homographs at several differentstages of the program.
Ambiguities that can be resolvedby morphological clues or capitalization are handled bythe lookup procedure.
Proper names are also identifiedat this stage.
One-character words are distinguishedfrom letters of the alphabet after the lookup has beencompleted.
The homograph resolution module handlesother types of homographs by examining the surroundingcontext.The possible parts of speech for a word are indicatedin the dictionary record in a series of bit fields whichinclude: verb, noun, adjective, pronoun, determiner,numerative, preposition, modifier, adverb, conjunction,auxiliary, and prefix.
Any combination of two or morebits may be coded.
Other sequences of bit codes areused to distinguish between different ypes of pronouns,adverbs, and conjunctions: relative, interrogative, nomi-nal, adverbial, connector, compound, and coordinate.The use of multiple-word substitution units reducesthe number of lexical ambiguities which must be resolvedby the algorithm.
Analysis units may also be used toselectively specify the part of speech of any or all of thewords covered by the unit.ENGSPAN's front-line approach to homograph resol-ution is embodied in the ATN parser, described in Section5.3.
The English words can be coded for the same possi-ble parts of speech as in SPANAM.
Determination of thefunction of each word depends on the path taken throughthe network.
The sequence of parts of speech whichleads to the first successful parse is used as the basis forthe transfer stage.128 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Muriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie Leon SPANAM and ENGSPANThere are three ways in which lexical informationfrom the dictionary is used to help the parser arrive at thecorrect analysis.
Substi;ution units compress idioms intoone record with a single part of speech.
Analysis unitscan be used to indicate that a group of words can beexpected to occur in a collocation with a particular func-tion.
This information may be overridden, whenevernecessary, by the parser.
An individual word may also becoded to indicate which of its possible parts of speech isstatistically most frequent.
Again, the final decision ismade by the parser based on the results of the sentence-level analysis.4.3 POLYSEMYSPANAM/ENGSPAN have two principal tools for dealingwith polysemy: microglossaries and transfer units.Substitution units and analysis units are also used whencommon collocations are involved.A microglossary is a sub-dictionary of target glosseswhich can be set up for a particular subject area,discourse register, or specific user.
Glosses pertaining tothe subject area of international public health form partof the main dictionary.
Microglossaries are in use forspecial translations of terms in the fields of law, finance,sanitary engineering, statistics, and scientific research.The system may have up to 99 microglossaries with anynumber of entries in each one.
The microglossaries to beconsulted during the translation of a particular text arespecified at run time.
The existence of a specific micro-glossary entry is indicated in the target record containingthe principal gloss for the word.
Thus, no time is wastedlooking for special translations of every word.
More thanone microglossary may be activated for the same trans-lation, in which case they are listed and consulted inorder of priority.The transfer unit is a rule that is stored in the sourcedictionary and is retrieved after the analysis of thesentence has been completed.
The existence of a trans-fer unit is indicated in the record corresponding to theindividual source word.
A transfer unit contains a condi-tion to be tested and an action to be performed.
Exam-ples of conditions are:?
Subject of this verb has X feature(s) or is word W.?
Object of this verb (or preposition) has X feature(s)or is word W.?
This word modifies a word with X feature(s) or modi-fies word W.?
This word has N object(s).?
Context N word(s) to left/right contains word with Xfeature(s).Transfer units are explicitly ordered in the dictionary.The action may either select an alternative translation,insert a word such as a preposition, or delete one or morewords.
The action also indicates whether or not addi-tional transfer entries should be sought for the sameword.4.4 SYNTACTIC AND SEMANTIC FEATURESThe dictionary record for each lexical item (includingsubstitution units) contains bit fields that are used tostore information about its syntactic and semanticfeatures.
These features are used in both the analysisand transfer stages of the translation.
For example,verbs and deverbal nouns are specified as occurring withone or more of the following codes: no object, oneobject, two objects, complement, no passive, locative,marked infinitive, unmarked infinitive, declarative clause,imperative clause, interrogative clause, gerund, adjunct,bound preposition, and object followed by bound prepo-sition.
Subject and object preferences can be specified as_+Human, +Animate, and +Concrete.
Other fields arereserved for case frames.
Features which can be codedfor nouns include Count, Bulk, Concrete, Human,Animate, Feminine, Proper, Collective, Device, Location,Time, Quantity, Scale, Color, Nationality, Material,Apposition, Body part, Condition, and Treatment.Adjectives are coded for many of the same featuresmentioned above.
In addition, they can be coded asInflectable, Optionally Inflectable, General, Temporarycondition, Positive connotation, and Negative connota-tion.
Adverbs can be coded as Time, Place, Manner,Motive, Interruptive, and Connector.
One of the refer-ences used in developing the coding scheme for theEnglish entries was Naomi Sager's Natural LanguageInformation Processing ( 1981).4.5 ANNOTATED SURFACE STRUCTURE NODESIn ENGSPAN, the structure produced by the parserconsists of a graph containing nodes corresponding toeach clause and phrase.
Each node contains a list of itsconstituents, their roles, and their locations.
If theconstituent is a lexical item, the location is a wordnumber; if it is a phrase or a clause, the location is thepointer to the appropriate node.
Each node is annotatedwith features applicable to the type of phrase or clauseinvolved.
These features include Type, Mood, Person,Number, Tense, Aspect, and Voice.Both the ATN formalism and the structural represen-tation used in ENGSPAN draw heavily on the presenta-tion of ATN parsers and systemic grammar in Winograd(1983).
Winograd's discussion, in turn, is based on thework of Woods (1970, 1973) and Kaplan (1973).
Ofcourse, the ATN parser has necessarily had to be adaptedto the needs and computational environment of thePAHO project.4.6 SPANISH VERB SYNTHESISThe procedure for the synthesis of Spanish verb forms isbased on principles of generative morphology andphonology.
The program synthesizes all regular andmost of the irregular verbs, in all tenses and moodsexcept the future subjunctive, and in all persons exceptthe second person plural.
The verb is entered in thetarget dictionary in its stem form.
Binary codes are usedComputational Linguistics, Volume 1 I, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 129Muriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie LeOn SPANAM and ENGSPANto specify the conjugation class and the 11 exceptionfeatures which govern the synthesis of the irregularforms.
Only one dictionary entry is needed for eachverb.
A small number of highly irregular stems and fullforms (74 in all) are listed in a table.
The majority of"stem-changing" verbs require no special synthesiscoding.
The procedure consists of a series of morpholog-ical spellout rules; raising, lowering, diphthongization,and deletion rules based on phonological processes;stress assignment rules; and orthographic rules to handlepredictable spelling changes.5 COMPUTATIONAL TECHNIQUES5.1 DICTIONARIESThe SPANAM/ENGSPAN dictionaries are VSAM filesstored on a permanently mounted disk.
The source andtarget dictionaries are separate files.
The basic recordhas a fixed length of 160 bytes.
The source entry islinked to its target gloss by means of a 12-digit lexicalnumber (LEX).
The first six digits of the LEX are theunique identification umber assigned to each pair whenit is added to the dictionary.
The second half of the LEXis used to specify alternative target glosses associatedwith the same source entry.
The main or default targetgloss for each pair has zeroes in these positions.5.1.1 SINGLE-WORD ENTRIESThe key for a source entry is the lexical item itself, whichmay be up to 30 characters in length.
The sourcedictionary is arranged alphabetically.
The key for atarget entry is the LEX, and the target dictionary isarranged in numerical order.Words may be entered in the source dictionary eitherwith or without inflectional endings.
Most nouns areentered only in the singular and adjectives only in themasculine singular.
Verbs are entered as stems.
Full-form entries are required for auxiliary verbs, words withhighly irregular morphology, and homographs.Several source items may be linked to the same targetgloss by assigning them to the same LEX.
For example,irregular forms of the same verb or alternative spellingsof a word require only one entry in the target dictionary.Likewise, more than one target gloss can be linked to thesame source word through the lexical number.
In thiscase, each alternative gloss is distinguished by coding inthe second half of the LEX.
Two positions are used todesignate terms belonging to microglossaries, two forglosses corresponding to different parts of speech, andtwo for context-sensitive glosses which are triggered bytransfer units.5.1.2 MULTIPLE-WORD ENTRIESThe dictionaries contain four types of multiple-wordentries: substitution units (SU), analysis units (AU),delayed substitution units (DSU), and transfer units (TU).The key for a multiple-word entry in the source diction-ary is a string consisting of the first six digits of the LEXfor each word in the unit.
In the case of an SU or an AU,the words must occur consecutively in the sentence inorder for the unit to be activated.
A DSU or a TU cancover either a continuous or discontinuous string.The basic SU contains from two to five words.
Adifferent record structure is used for longer entries, suchas names of organizations and titles of publications.When an SU is retrieved, the dictionary records corre-sponding to the individual words are replaced with onerecord corresponding to the entire sequence.
The glossfor the unit is also found in a single entry in the targetdictionary.
This type of unit is essential in order toobtain the correct translation of names of organizations,titles of publications, slogans, etc., and is an efficient wayof handling some fixed idioms, phrasal prepositions, andcertain technical terminology.
An SU record has thesame format as a single-word entry.
In addition, itcontains a character string which indicates the part ofspeech of each of its members.
This information can beused by the parser if it is unable to parse the sentenceusing the single part of speech specified by the unit.Examples of phrases entered as SUs are by leaps andbounds, International Drinking Water Supply and Sanita-tion Decade, and Health for All by the Year 2000.The AU, which also contains from two to five words,has several functions.
At the very least, it alerts the anal-ysis routines to the possible presence of a commonphrase and provides information on its length and func-tion.
It can also be used to resolve the part-of-speechambiguity of any of its members.
Finally, it can specifyan alternative translation for one or more of its parts.The AU is an entry in the source dictionary but has nocounterpart in the target dictionary.
The record for eachsource word is retained in the representation of thesentence, but the last two digits of its lexical number aremodified if a translation other than the main gloss isdesired.
When the target lookup is performed, the glossfor each word is retrieved separately.
This ensures thatthe rules for analysis and synthesis of conjoined modifi-ers will be able to access information about the individualwords of the phrase.
It also makes it possible for theparser to determine whether or not the individual wordsare being used as a unit in the given context.
Examplesof phrases entered as AUs are drinking water and patientcare.
The algorithm is still able to correctly analyzesequences uch as the children have been drinking waterwith a high fluoride content, and it is essential that thepatient care for himself.The DSU is used to handle lexical items such as phrasalverbs which are likely to occur as noncontiguous wordsin the input.
The existence of a DSU is indicated in thesource record of the first word of the unit.
The unit isretrieved from the dictionary during the sentence-levelparse.
The decision of whether or not to accept he unitis based on both syntactic and semantic requirements ofthe parser.
If the unit is accepted, it replaces the individ-ual records and causes a different target gloss to be130 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Muriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie Le~n SPANAM and ENGSPANretrieved.
Examples of DSUs are look up, put on, andcarry out.The TU is used to specify an alternate translation of aword or words which depends on the occurrence of aspecific word or set of features in one of its arguments orin a specified environment.
These entries are stored inthe source dictionary only and are retrieved after theanalysis "has been completed.
If the conditions pecifiedin the transfer entry are met, the corresponding lexicalnumbers are modified so that the desired target gloss isselected during the target lookup.
For example, if theobject of know is coded as+Human,the v rb is translatedas conocer instead of saber.
If female and male modify anoun coded as -Human,  they are translated as hembraand macho instead of mujer and hombre.5.2 GRAMMAR RULESSPANAM, up to now, uses two basic types of grammarrules: pattern matching and transformations.
Patternmatching is used for the recognition and reordering ofnoun phrases.
The grammatical patterns are stored in afile which can be updated without recompiling theprogram.
The patterns are applied by searching for thelongest match first.
Transformations are used to identifyand synthesize the verb phrases and clitic pronouns.
Therules are expressed in PL/I  code and are grouped inmodules according to the part of speech of the headword.
Each group of rules is tested once for eachsentence.
The structural description of each rule iscompared with the input string.
The description mayrequire a match of parts of speech, syntactic features, orspecific lexical items.
If a match is found, the rule isapplied.
The rule may permute, add, delete, or substitutelexical items or features associated with them.As indicated earlier, ENGSPAN's grammar ules areexpressed in the form of an ATN.
The network config-uration indicates possible sequences of constituents.
Therules governing the acceptability of any specific inputstring are contained in the conditions attached to thevarious arcs of the network.
The building of the nodes ofthe structural representation and the assignment offeatures and roles is determined by actions associatedwith each arc.
The conditions and actions are containedin separate modules which are part of the compiledprogram.
The configuration of states and arcs is speci-fied in a file which is updated on-line.
The contents ofthis file also determine which of the conditions andactions are actually attached to specific arcs for a partic-ular run.As of May 1984 the ATN grammar had sevennetworks: sentence, clause, noun phrase, verb phrase,sentence nominalization, hyphenated compound, andprepositional phrase.
Each network consists of a set ofstates connected by arcs.
Four types of arcs are used:category arcs, which can be taken if the part of speechmatches that of the input word; jump arcs, which can betaken without matching a word of the input; seek arcs,which initiate recursive calls to a network; and send arcs,which return control to the calling network after thesuccessful parsing of a constituent.5.3 PARSING ALGORITHMThe ENGSPAN algorithm performs a top-down, left-to-right sequential parse using a combination of chronologi-cal and explicit backtracking.
The parser stops aftercompleting the first successful parse.
The path takenthrough the network depends on the ordering of the arcsat each state, the structural information already deter-mined by the parser, and the codes contained in thedictionary record for each lexical item and multiple-wordentry.
Also available to the parser is information regard-ing sentence punctuation, capitalization, parentheticalmaterial, etc., which has been gathered by an earlierprocedure.
The algorithm processes the words of theinput string one at a time, moving from left to right.
Ateach state, all arcs are tested to determine whether theymay be taken for the current word.
The possible arcs areplaced on a pushdown stack and the top arc on the stackis taken.
The parser continues through the input string aslong as it can find an arc that it is allowed to take.
If noarc is found for the current word, the parser backtracks.Which of the alternative arcs is taken off the stackdepends on the situation which caused the parser tobacktrack.
If the end of the string is reached and thealgorithm is at a final state in the network, the parse issuccessful.
If no path can be found through the network,the parse fails.Long-distance dependencies such as those involved inrelative clauses and WH-questions are parsed by using ahold Hst.
When the parser encounters a noun phrasefollowed by a relative pronoun, a copy of the phrase isplaced on the hold list.
When a question is being parsed,the questioned element is placed on the list.
When a gapis detected in the relative clause or interrogativesentence, the phrase on the hold list is used to fill theappropriate slot.Whenever backtracking is required, a wel l - fo rmedphrase list is used to save a copy of the phrases that havebeen completed but are about to be modified or rejected.For all seek arcs, the parser checks to see if a phrase ofthe appropriate type is already on the well-formed phraselist.
If there are several phrases on the list that beginwith the same word, the longest phrase is tried first.
Anew phrase is parsed only if there is nothing on the well-formed phrase list that satisfies the seek arc.
In this way,large amounts of reparsing are avoided.Conjoining is currently being handled by a configura-tion of arcs at the end of each subnetwork which allowsadditional phrases of the same type to be parsed recur-sively.
When partial phrases are conjoined, the end ofthe subnetwork is reached by traversing one or morejump arcs.In the event of an unsuccessful parse, ENGSPAN isstill expected to produce a translation.
The longestsuccessful path is always saved, and information fromthis "partial parse" can be used by the synthesis routines.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 131Muriel VasconceHos and Marjorie Ledn SPANAM and ENGSPANLocal routines are used to analyze the remainder of theinput string.
These routines function as a "safety net".They resolve homograph ambiguities and analyze verbstrings and noun strings, adding as much information asthey can to the structural description of the sentence as awhole.The ATN parsing algorithm is being developed in anindependent PL/I program, using the ENGSPAN inputand dictionary lookup modules.
3 It is also totally compat-ible with SPANAM.
The network grammar is read in atruntime, making it possible to experiment with differentnetwork configurations without recompiling the program.Each time an enhanced version of the parser has beentested and debugged, it replaces the working version inthe ENGSPAN program.
The diagram in Figure 1 showsthe relationship between the parser and the "safety net"routines in ENGSPAN.
The parser is to be incorporatedin a similar way into SPANAM as well.A complete description of the ATN grammar andparser will be found in the report to be submitted to theU.S.
Agency for International Development at the end ofthe grant period (October 1985).6 PRACTICAL EXPERIENCE6.1 SYSTEM MAINTENANCE6.1.1 DICTIONARIES: SPANAMAs of May 1984, the Spanish source dictionary had60,150 entries and the English target had 57,315.
Theprogram for updating the SPANAM dictionaries is user-friendly.
Many default codes are entered by the updateprogram automatically.
Even though there are now 211possible fields in which codes can be entered, as opposedto the original 82, almost all of them can be specifiedusing mnemonic descriptors and code names.Today, updating is done almost exclusively on thebasis of production text.
Every job reveals ways in whichthe dictionaries can be improved, with either new glossesfor individual words or idiomatic phrases, especially inthe case of technical terminology, or deeper coding ofexisting entries.
The steady, ongoing development of thedictionaries (Table 1) has ensured both a decrease innot-found words, with advantages for program effective-ness, and closer correspondence to the type of languageused in the Organization, leaving less work for the post-editor.As indicated earlier, it is the post-editor who notes thechanges needed at the time of post-editing and who laterupdates the dictionaries.
An hour is reserved for thiswork at the end of the day.
When production permits,the post-editor may spend extra time on dictionary work;3 A major portion of the parsing routines have been developed by LeeAnn Schwartz, who has participated in this activity on a full-time basissince August 1983.if there is pressure, the work may have to be postponedfor a while.
Because of the integration of dictionary-building into the work of the post-editor, the cost is nolonger an element that can be clearly identified.Table 1.
Size of dictionaries, PAHO MachineTranslation System, 1976-1984.SPANAM ENGSPANYear Spanish English English Spanish19761977197819791980198119821983May 19844,0007,83638 50648 2895O 91253 78554 38356 24760 1503,5007,34138 37653 30355 79251 18752 22353 32657 3151 44 ,411 2 44,99840,107 41,3583 40,772 42,11641,210 42,6387,000 unmatched target entries were deleted by a special-purposeprogram.2 Upon reversal of dictionaries, 4,500 duplicate source entries andcorresponding target records were deleted by a special-purposeprogram after selection of the desired gloss.3 1,000 irregular verb forms were deleted by a special-purpose program.6.1.2 DICTIONARIES: ENGSPANENGSPAN has the same user-friendly software asSPANAM for updating its dictionaries.
As of May 1984,the English source dictionary had 41,210 entries and theSpanish target had 42,638.The AID project has provision for two half-timedictionary assistants, one a linguist of English mothertongue and one a translator of Spanish mother tongue.
Anew deeply coded source entry costs from $0.60 to$1.00; Spanish target glosses that require research areabout the same.
Simple changes in existing entries aver-age about $0.25 each.6.1.3 OTHER SYSTEM MAINTENANCEThe SPANAM programs are maintained by the staffcomputational linguist, who carries out these tasks inaddition to development work on ENGSPAN.Hardware and system support are provided by the PanAmerican Health Organization.
There is no separatecharge for utilization of the computer, either for time orstorage space.
The project has a permanently assignedpartition of 512 K in core, as well as 1 MB on disk forwork space, 8.5 MB for program libraries, and 33.2 MBfor dictionaries and other permanently mounted files.132 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Muriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie Ledn SPANAM and ENGSPANGRAMMAR AND LEXICON PROCEDURES DATA STRUCTURESENGLISH SOURCEDICTIONARYATN GRN4HAR)MANGIqTSwrsIoWLOOKUP1--FINDUNITPARSERJ y \[ INPUT TEXT IN INTERNAL FORI'LJI, TINPUT STRING'DICTIONARY RECORDSFOR SINGLE WORDSI ' I  "ODIFIED RECORDS ~ FOR WORDS t PHRASESSENTENCE REGISTERCLAUSE REGISTERSVERBSTRINGPOSN,I~ I 6PHRASE REGISTERSNOUNSTRINGSPANISH TARGETDICTIONARY ,1TRANSFER UNITLOOKUPMODIFIED CODESFOR WORDS t PHRASESTLOO UP J" .,4"1--- SPANISHAND CODEsGLOSSESTSYNTAXSPANISHOUTPUT STRINGI \[ FOR~TTED HTS I Ot~ OUTPUT TEXTFigure 1.
The relationship between the parser and the "safety net" routines in ENGSPAN.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 133Muriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie Le6n SPANAM and ENGSPAN6.2 TESTING6.2.1 SPANAMThe output of SPANAM is subject o daily scrutiny by theproject staff.
In addition, weekly demonstrations aregiven for visitors, using random text as input.An experimental version of the program is used to testand debug system enhancements resulting fromproduction feedback and from the research and develop-ment being done for ENGSPAN.
Before the experimentalversion of the program replaces the production version, acontrol test is performed by translating the same textwith both programs and comparing the output, using theDocument Compare software available on the WangOIS/140.
This utility program compares the output charac-ter by character.
The CPU time, throughput ime, andnumber of disk I /O's for both versions are alsocompared.6.2.2 ENGSPANAn experimental corpus of over 50,000 words wasselected at the beginning of the project.
Sentences arechosen from this corpus for the testing of specificprogram modules.
Following every major enhancementof the algorithm or dictionary, the corpus texts areretranslated and the results are compared with previoustranslations.
The system is also tested using new textswhich are translated without previous review by theproject staff.
After the first translation run, the diction-ary is updated in order to add not-found words and miss-ing codes, and then the translation is rerun.
Problemsentences from these random texts are retained for use insubsequent development tasks.6.3 MEASUREMENT CRITERIA6.3.1 SPEED: CPU/THROUGHPUT TIMESPANAM's speeds, both CPU and throughput time, havesteadily improved over the years (Table 2).
The bestthroughput time speeds are obtained at night, when thereare fewer users working on the computer.
During theday, turnaround at peak periods can be considerablyslower.
The speed is adequate for the current load ofproduction.When major changes are made in the program, care isalways taken to make sure that they do not cause anyextensive degradation of speed.The CPU and throughput imes for ENGSPAN are1,400 and 400 words per minute, respectively.
Thesespeeds are expected to decrease as the coverage of theATN grammar is expanded.Table 2.
Translation speeds, SPANAM, 1979-1984.YearBest clock time Average CPU timewpm wph pages/h wpm wph1979 160 9,600 38 Notavailable1980 176 10,560 42 Notavailable1981 192 11,520 46 3,184 191,0001982 580"  34,800 139 2,600 156,0001983 700 42,000 168 2,880 172,8001984 710 42,600 170 2,982 178,920*Reflects change to VSAM hookup.6.3.2 COMPARISON WITH HUMAN TRANSLATION SPEEDWith a trained post-editor, SPANAM's output is neverslower than that of a human translator.
The range isfrom one and a half to four times as fast, with the aver-age falling between two and three times as fast.
TheSPANAM output ranges from 4,000 to 10,000 words aday per post-editor, depending on all the factorsmentioned above, as well as the sheer difficulty of thetext.
On the other hand, human translators working inthe international organizations commonly producearound 2,000 words a day, although some services reportan average of 1,500 and others an average of 2,500.
It ispossible to reach 3,000 or even higher, but usually not ona regular basis.
Free lances report much higher rates.Given the variability of both sets of figures, it would bedifficult to make any hard-and-fast comparisons.However, for the same person using both modes, it mightbe possible to draw some conclusions: one translatorwho post-edits for SPANAM reports that she consistentlyproduces about three times as much output with MT asshe does in the traditional way.6.3.3 QUALITY: CORRECTNESSNo systematic error analysis has ever been done ofSPANAM or ENGSPAN.
Three consultants were engagedunder different contracts to evaluate the overall status ofthe project: Professors Yorick Wilks (1978), RossMacdonald (1981), and Michael Zarechnak (1981).While they commented on general characteristics of theoutput, they were more concerned with underlying proc-esses that might produce the errors than the errors assuch.
Referring to the quality of the output, ProfessorMacdonald (1981:7) reported:The current output is rather good.
If a human being hadwritten it, perhaps the output would be considered to bedefective in many respects.
When it is known, however,that it was produced by a machine, the basis of judgmentshifts, and the output seems really very presentable.
Anyperson of good will can understand this output, and I134 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Muriel Vasconcelios and Marjorie Le~n SPANAM and ENGSPANassume that no misleading translations have been discov-ered that would vitiate the intent of any article.6.3.4 QUALITY: POST-EDITING EFFORT/HUMAN TRANS-LATION QUALITYThe question of effort required for post-editing is inextri-cably tied up with standards of human translation.
Boththese issues are highly colored by subjective criteria.
InSection 2.2 there was a discussion of linguistic strategiesfor reducing the time spent on post-editing.
The "quick-fix" post-edit takes much less time than a traditionalrevision.In an effort to see how translators would handle someof the same sentences that had been fixed up quickly inpost-editing, a set of 17 Spanish source sentences wasgiven to 12 trained translators who were asked to providespontaneous human versions in English (Vasconcellos, inpreparation).
No one sentence was translated twice inthe same way; apart from lexical differences, there was avariety of combinations and permutations in the orderingof the various phrasal elements.
However, when therespondents were subsequently shown the "quick-fix"alternatives, they agreed that the latter were at least asgood, or in some cases even better, than what they them-selves had proposed - probably because there was great-er cohesion in the presentation of the semanticcomponents (Vasconcellos 1985b, in preparation).
Thisexercise underscored the difficulty of measuring thequality of a translation.6.4 COST EFFECTIVENESSBecause of all the variables involved, including in partic-ular the purpose of the translation, it is usually ratherdifficult to make clear-cut comparisons betweenSPANAM production and traditional translation at PAHO.On one large project, however, such a comparison waspossible because about half the original text was in Span-ish and the other half was in English.
The former wasdone on SPANAM and the latter was farmed out tohuman translators who worked in the traditional mode.For 101,296 words of machine translation, the cost was$3,218, including a hypothetical cost for machine time,and 36 staff-days were devoted to the activity.
Had thesame number of words been farmed out in the traditionalmode, the cost would have been $8,196 and the numberof staff- and contract-days (based on an output of 2,000words a day) would have amounted to 65.75.
Hencethere was a monetary saving of $5,078 (61%) and thestaff-days were reduced by 29.5 (45%).It 'is safe to say that the economy effeeted withSPANAM is sufficient o cover the salary of the post-edi-tor and perhaps another salary at the same level as well.It may yet be some time, however, before the earlyinvestment in the project is fully recovered.Sometimes it is hard to know whether or not SPANAMis translating text that would otherwise have beensubmitted for human translation.
Quite possibly the useris less hesitant to request a machine translation than ahuman one.
B. Dostert (1979) has reported thisphenomenon i a survey of 58 users of MT.In the past PAHO has farmed out a large percentage ofits translation load.
As SPANAM and ENGSPAN increas-ingly reduce that direct cost, there is clear evidence ofsavings.6.5 SUBJECTIVE FACTORSThe SPANAM staff have come to the understanding thatin the end an MT system will stand or fall depending onthe human environment in which it is placed, and thatsome of the most important factors cannot be measured.In the broad sense, these include: long-term commitment,positive attitudes, innovative responses, creative prob-lem-solving.
At the more specific level, they include alsothe real availability of input in machine-readable form, acooperative spirit among the staff who must share theoversaturated word-processing equipment, willingness onthe part of the post-editor to use the word processor forlong periods, resourceful post-editing, and a host of otherfactors of nonresistance that are seldom taken intoaccount.In addition, if human translators are to be enlisted aspost-editors, they must have a positive attitude towardthe capabilities of MT, and, for true gains in productivity,they must be willing to use the keyboard and to becomeadept with the special editing features that have beendeveloped for the word processor.In dealing with the output, there must be flexibilityand compromise in regard to quality.
For example, if therapporteur of a meeting has an hour in which to write upwhat her speakers said, and she can't understand theSpanish without a translation, there must be a "can-do"type of staff that will produce a document hat can beworked from.
The need met is the true criterion.7 DISCUSSION OF APPROACH ADOPTEDMacdonald (1979:130-145) has pointed out that MTsystems tend to polarize toward either an empirical or atheoretical approach.
Development of the empiricalsystem proceeds "on the basis of actual experience withappropriate texts" (1981:1), whereas the theoreticalapproach begins by postulating the adequacy of someparticular model of language description which it ishoped will be able to cover all contingencies (1979:130,1981:1).Each position has its advantages and its disadvantages(1981:1).
In an empirical approach, the main advantageis that the system is more compact in that it concentrateson only that which is of immediate usefulness for the taskat hand.
The main disadvantage is that, as the systemexpands, "it becomes difficult to add in new operationswithout reworking some of what has already been done"(1981:1).
The theoretical system, on the other hand, isable to proceed with less disruption, but the disadvantageis that "it is extremely difficult to predict as to which ofall the complexities will actually arise; complexities mayComputational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 135Muriel Vasconcellos and Marjorie Leon SPANAM and ENGSPANbe foreseen and planned for in the system which do notactually appear in the type of texts to be translated"(1981:1).Rather than advocate one extreme or the other,Macdonald believed that benefit was to be gained fromboth; ideally, he felt, the two positions should becombined in a melded system (1979:143):On the whole, the best approach is a compromisebetween the two extremes, a basically empirical approachin which, however, the researchers strive for an overallperspective (1981:1) .
.
.The preliminary research on the empirical system willserve the purpose of establishing the nature and extent ofthe problem of machine translation clearly and definitive-ly.
When the nature of the problem has been recognizedas fully as possible, a rigorous and elegant solution of theproblem can be devised (1979:145).This view, which came through strongly in the 1981recommendations of Macdonald and Zarechnak, is whathas guided the development of SPANAM/ENGSPAN inthe last three years.
While SPANAM began as a purelyempirical system, ENGSPAN is now well on its way tobeing a melded system.
The flexibility of the basicSPANAM/ENGSPAN architecture has made it possible tointroduce a theoretical focus while still preserving thatpart of the working system which could be used both inthe interim and as a "safety net" in the event of failedparses.Rather than weighing the techniques of one MTsystem against those of another, it is felt that a morefruitful approach is to establish certain "positive criteriaof relevance":?
Who are the system's users??
In what environment is it being implemented??
What purpose does it serve??
On what basis is its use to be justified?The strength of a system will lie in its capacity to be rele-vant for its users, its environment, its purpose, its justi-fication.
Judgment from this standpoint is believed to bemore effective in the long run than evaluation of the rela-tive success or failure of a given theory.By these standards, SPANAM has proved itself throughits four years of ongoing production: through the accessi-bility of its programs, the user-friendliness of its diction-aries, its rapid throughput time, the broad range of textfor which it produces a usable translation, and thesavings it has effected in terms of both time and money.ENGSPAN is soon to follow suit.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThe authors wish to express special acknowledgment totheir co-worker Lee Ann Schwartz.
As the secondcomputational linguist working on ENGSPAN, Lee hasgiven unstinting support o the project and its objectives.Growth of the dictionaries is attributable largely to thecontributions of Rebecca Naidis, post-editor of SPANAM,and Susana Santangelo, who has worked on ENGSPAN.Other assistance on the dictionaries has been given byCatherine Howe, David Landeck, Jos6 Luiz Meurer,Patricia Schmid, and Lucretia Vanderwende.The occasional consultants to the project since 1981have been Ross Macdonald, Michael Zarechnak, LeonardShaefer, and William Cressey.Within PAHO, the project has had continuing supportand encouragement over the years from Luis LarreaAlba, Jr., Chief of the Department of General Services.Finally, both PAHO and the project are most appreci-ative of the support received from the U.S. Agency forInternational Development.REFERENCESAhlroth, E. and Armstrong-Lowe, D. 1983 The WHO TerminologyInformation System: Interim Report.
HBl/ISS/83.I (offset), WorldHealth Organization, Geneva.Dostert, Bozena 1979 Users' Evaluation of Machine Translation:Georgetown MT System.
Undated typewritten report laterexpanded into article of the same title in Henisz-Dostert et al:149-244.Halliday, M.A.K.
1967 Notes on Transitivity and Theme in English.Part 2.
Journal of Linguistics 3:199-244.Halliday, M.A.K.
1979 Explorations in the Function of Language.Elsevier North-Holland, Amsterdam, New York, Oxford.Henisz-Dostert, B.; Macdonald, R. Ross; and Zarechnak, Michael1979 Machine Translation.
Mouton, The Hague.Kaplan, Ronald M. 1973 A General Syntactic Parser.
In: Rustin,Randall: 193-241.Kay, Martin 1982 Machine Translation.
,4JCL 8(2): 74-77.Lawson, Veronica 1982 Machine Translation and People.
PracticalExperience of Machine Translation.
North Holland, Amsterdam,New York, Oxford: 3-9.Macdonald, R. Ross 1979 The Problem of Machine Translation.
In:Henisz-Dostert e al.
: 89-145.Macdonald, R. Ross 1981 A Study of the PAHO Machine TranslationSystem.
Report of short-term consultant under Personal ServicesContract APO-09435(WU1) \[typescript, 13 p.\].
Pan AmericanHealth Organization, Washington, D.C.Rustin, Randall, Ed.
1971 Natural Language Processing.
AlgorithmicsPress, New York.Sager, Naomi 1981 Natural Language Information Processing: ,4Computer Grammar of English and its ,4pplications.
Addison-Wesley,Reading, Massachusetts.Vasconcellos, Muriel 1984 Machine Translation at the Pan AmericanHealth Organization: A Review of Highlights and Insights.
Newslet-ter of the British Computer Society, Natural Language TranslationsSpecialist Group 14.Vasconcellos, Muriel 1985a Management of the Machine TranslationEnviornment: Interaction of Functions at the Pan American HealthOrganization.
In: Lawson, Veronica, Ed., Translating and theComputer 5: Tools for the Trade.
Aslib, London: 115-129.Vasconcellos, Muriel 1985b Theme and Focus: Cross-LanguageComparison via Translations from Extended Discourse.
Ph.D.dissertation, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C.Vasconcellos, Muriel In preparation Functional Considerations in thePostediting of Machine-Translated Output.
(To appear in Comput-ers and Translation.
)Winograd, Terry 1983 Language as a Cognitive Process.
Volume 1.Syntax.
Addison-Wesley, Reading, Massachusetts.Woods, W.A.
1969 Augmented Transition Networks for NaturalLanguage Analysis.
Report No.
CS-I to the National Science Foun-dation, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Woods, W.A.
1971 An Experimental Parsing System for TransitionNetwork Grammars.
In: Rustin, Randall: 111-154.Zarechnak, Miachel 1979 The History of Machine Translation.
In:Henisz-Dostert e  al.
: 1-87 \[in particular, 29-30, 32, 134 ff.l.136 Computational Linguistics, Volume I I, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985
