ASCOF -- A MODULAR MULTILEVEL SYSTEMFOR FRENCH-GERMAN TRANSLATIONAxe l  B iewer,  Christian F6neyrol ,  Johannes  Ritzke,  Erwin Stegentr i t tUniversitltt des SaarlandesD-6600 Saarbr'dckenWest GermanyThis paper is an overview of ASCOF, a modular multilevel system for French-German translation.
InASCOF, the classical divisions of the translation process (analysis, transfer, synthesis) have beenadopted.The analysis is realized by three phases: (1) the morphological analysis, (2) the identification ofnon-complex syntactic phrases and the macrostructure of the sentence, and (3) the determination ofthe structure of complex syntactic phrases and the syntactic functions, in which syntactic and semanticcriteria are used.
Semantic criteria are stored in a semantic network.
The syntax-oriented parts ofthe system interact with this semantic network during the identification of the syntactic functions.
Theiexicai transfer operates on the standardized output tree of the analysis.
The structural transfer andthe syntactic synthesis are achieved by transformational grammars; the morphological synthesis, atleast, generates the word form of the target language (German).1 PROJECT HISTORY AND STATUSASCOF (Analysis and Synthesis of French by means ofCOMSKEE) is a computer system for the processing ofnatural language with the purpose of translating writtenFrench texts into German texts.
This system has beenunder development since 1981 at the University of theSaarland at Saarbrticken, West Germany (Project C ofSFB 100).
At present (1984-1985), the research team,which has drawn upon the experience and findings ofprevious tudies, consists of six members.\[SFB 100 is a research group in which different linguis-tic and computer science-oriented projects cooperate.The SFB 100 was founded in 1973 and is financed by theDFG (German Research Foundation).
Other projects ofthe SFB 100 have been developing the programminglanguage COMSKEE and the systems SUSY and SUSY II.ASCOF is an independent system especially conceived forFrench and German.
General descriptions of ASCOF aregiven in F6neyrol, Ritzke, and Stegentritt (1984) andStegentritt (1983).
Detailed descriptions of the variousproblems and their solutions are discussed in F6neyroland Stegentritt (1982) and in Ritzke (1982).\]2 APPLICATION ENVIRONMENTThe system is programmed in COMSKEE (Computingand String Keeping Language; cf.
Mueller-von Brochow-ski et al (1981), Messerschmidt (1984).)
For thecomputer scientist, COMSKEE is a procedural (imper-ative) format-free, block-oriented programming languagesuch as ALGOL and Pascal, yet comprising some of thequalities of functional languages (such as LISP orPROLOG).For the linguist, COMSKEE is a powerful device espe-cially due to its dynamic data types - dictionary, set,sentence, and string - and its dynamic operations - suchas positional and contextual substring access and assign-ment.The system runs on a SIEMENS 7561 under the systemBS 2000.
ASCOF has been conceived as a completelyautomatic translation system.
As yet, we have been lessconcerned with end-user application than with funda-mental research.
For this reason, we have focusedprimarily upon linguistic and computer science problems,rather than upon processing speed and the like.Copyright1985 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission tocopy without fee all or part of this material isgranted provided thatthe copies are not made for direct commercial dvantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
To copyotherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/85/020137-154503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 137Axel Biewer, Christian F6neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOF3 GENERAL TRANSLATION APPROACH3.1In ASCOF the "classical" divisions (cf.
Vauquois 1975)have been adopted: analysis, transfer, and synthesis.
Theresult of the sentence analysis is represented as a stand-ardized tree structure, which then serves as input for thetransfer and synthesis of the target language.3.2The ASCOF analysis takes place in three steps based ondifferent grammar and algorithm types.
The morphologi-cal analysis PHASE I is carried out by an algorithm thatrealizes actually a mere pattern matching; in PHASE IIcontext-free grammars identify non-complex syntacticphrases and the macrostructure of the sentence.
Areduction in the homographies of word classes is simul-taneously achieved for the complete sentence.
PHASE IIIdetermines the syntactic functions within the sentence,using syntactic and semantic riteria, and carries out thesemantic disambiguation of lexemes.
This phase of anal-ysis is performed by algorithms imilar to ATN, repres-enting an interactive system.
\[The term interactive systemmight be problematic in this context as this term oftendenotes components interacting with the user.
Here weare concerned with the process communication betweendifferent components.\] Consequently, the ASCOF analy-sis does not constitute a one-pass parser but a system ofparsers (cf.
Figure la).
The strategy applied resemblesthat of cascaded ATNs (Woods 1980) and was chosenfor the following reason: the complexity and length ofthe sentences to be analyzed require - for reasons ofefficiency - parsing strategies appropriate to the differentproblems, that is, context-free grammars for PHASE II,which works exclusively with syntactic information, andformalisms imilar to ATN for PHASE III, where syntacticand semantic information is combined.
A similar combi-nation of syntax and semantics often occurs in modernparsers of various orientations, e.g., in the determinismparser put forward by Marcus (1980, chap.
10).This approach not only allows a step-by-step realiza-tion of the test phases required for the development butalso provides the user with alternative options for theoutput owing to the different depths of analysis inPHASE II and III.3.3Beyond the phase of analysis, ASCOF includes a phase oftransfer and synthesis, where the words of the sourcelanguage are exchanged for those of the target languageand where simultaneously structures are altered in thetree structure if necessary.
The changes of structure arecarried out by a transformational grammar.
The gram-mar operates on trees; grammar and algorithm are sepa-rate from each other and the algorithm interprets theexternally stored rules of the grammar.
\[The documenta-tion of the transformational component is put forward byReding (1985); for the discussion of transformationgrammars in machine translation, cf.
Vauquois (1975),Boitet, GuiUaume and Qu6zel-Ambrunaz (1982), andHuckert (1979).\]On the leaves of the output tree, produced by thesyntactic synthesis, a further algorithm operates, whichinterprets a set of morphological rules in order to gener-ate the correct word forms of the target language.
Thetransfer and synthesis components of ASCOF are shownin Figure lb.The separation of grammar and algorithms allows theapplication of the above-mentioned components in otherlanguages as well, provided that the grammar is replaced.4 LINGUISTIC TECHNIQUES ANDCOMPUTATIONAL REALIZATION4.1The most sophisticated phase within ASCOF concernsanalysis (French); the synthesizing phase (German) hasnot yet been developed to such an elaborate xtent.This paper consequently concentrates on thedescription of the anMyzing phase.
Much space isdevoted to segment analysis, the interaction of thecomplement analysis and the analysis of complex nounphrases, which is discussed in detail and illustrated byexamples.4.2PHASE I of the analysis consists of the sentence/textinput and the morphological nalysis.
Each word form isassigned the set of possible categories as well as themorpho-syntactic information.
A full form and a stemdictionary (both approximately 47,000 entries) as well asa suffix dictionary (inflectional suffixes) are available.Unknown word forms undergo a derivational analysis(based on Stegentritt 1978).4.3Within ASCOF's PHASE II, we can distinguish two differ-ent parts, both realized by means of context-free gram-mars; in the first part, categorial (word class) ambiguitiesare resolved through a CFG working on the string ofword classes issued from PHASE I.
By applying thisgrammar, we obtain one - or possibly more - string(s) ofunequivocal word classes.
\[A special word class problemoccurring in French, concerning the ambiguity of (-ant)forms, is discussed in F6neyrol (1982).\] As the consultedgrammar itself represents a rudimentary syntactic analy-sis, here we arrive at an initial decomposition of thesentence into so-called simple syntactic units, such asnominal, prepositional, adjectival, adverbial, and verbunits; (coordinating and subordinating) conjunctions,introducing words (relative pronouns and others), andcommas form proper units, too.For a sentence such as(1) la directive du Conseil du 20 juillet, qui, ~ l'article 4,pr6voit une augmentation du prix du mais de 3%,touche les r6gions du sud et les pays africains quid6pendent de ce produit d'importation.138 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Axel Biewer, Christian F6neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOFPHASE IPHASE IIPHASE I I IInput of the sentence/textdictionary check morphologicalanalysisAnalysis of the macrostructure ofthe sentence by context-freegrammars- reduction of the homographies- identification of non-complexsyntactic phrases- sentence segmentation,LAnalysis of the verb phrases(ATN)Interactive systemComplementanalysisAnalysis ofthe complexnounphrasesdetermination of the reading,semantic disambiguationDATA BASEdictionary foranalysis47,ooo entries= dictionaryinformationcf.
grammarSemantic infor-mation,Semantic networkFigure l a .
Analysis components in ASCOF.Computational Linguistics, Volume 1 l, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 139Axel Biewer, Christian F6neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOFTRANSFERSYNTHESISAnalys isLexicalTransferFrench ---> GermanStructuralTransferSyntacticSynthesisMorpholoqica lSynthesisJ<DATA BASEDict ionaryFrench -GermanTransforma-t ionalGrammarTransforma-t ionalGrammarMorphologica lGrammarFigure lb.
Transfer and synthesis.the result of this first part of PHASE II will be asfollows:(2) nnog pg pg com rel com pg com verb nnog pg pg pgcom verb nnog pg coord nnog adj rel verb pg pg eos\[The abbreviation "eos" means "end of sentence","nnog" means "nominal noun phrase", "rel" means"relative word"; the other abbreviations need nocomment.\] This string of simple syntactic units serves asinput for the second part of PHASE II, concerned withthe segmentation of the sentence, that is, its decompos-ition into main and/or subordinate clause(s); the follow-ing shows in more detail how this part of ASCOF works.\[Some of the problems appearing in the segmentation ofFrench sentences as well as a description of another typeof segmentation module used earlier are described inF6neyrol (1983).\]The operation of segmentation itself takes place in twosteps, each of which is realized by a CFG; in the firststep, we apply the CFG IDENTIFICATION to the stringunder (2) in order to "transform" the sequence of simplesyntactic units into so-called Segmentation Units (SU)\[we use the following conventions: "( )" for facultativi-ty, " I " for alternatives, and "*" for repetition\]:IDENTIFICATION: (TV1, NTV1, S1, R1)TV1 :nnog; com; rel; verb; coord; adj; pg; cosNTV1 :SUNNOG; SUN; SUCOM; SUCOORD; SURELS;SUVERB; SUENDR1 1 : S1 ~ (SUNNOG \[ SUN I SUCOM\[ SUCOORD \[ SURELS \[ SUVERB )* SUEND2 : SUNNOG * nnog(SUN)*3 : SUN -~ (Pg \[ adj)*4 : SUCOM -~ com5 : SUCOORD * coord6 : SURELS -~ rel (SUNNOG I SUN\[ SUCOM\[ SUCOORD )* SUVERB7 : SUVERB ~ verb8 : SUEND ~ cosTaking a look at some rules of IDENTIFICATION, oneshould note that, for example, in rule 2 SUNNOG is builtup without taking account of the internal structure of thecomplex noun phrase; the actual relations inside theSUNNOG, l'augmentation du prix du ma~'s de 3% - infact: (l'augmentation (du prix (du mars)) (de 3%)) - arenot of importance in this part of ASCOF; it is only neces-sary to identify the complex noun phrase as SUNNOG.\[The accurate description of complex nominal phrases is140 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Axel Biewer, Christian F6neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOFthe main task of NOMAL; for this section, see 4.4.3.\]Rule 6 builds up the relative clause, the minimal invento-ry consisting of relative word (rel) and verbal phrase(verb) with the bracketed facultative lements betweenthem.Th.e result of IDENTIFICATION for sentence (1) viastructure (2) is(3) SUNNOG SUCOM SURELS SUNNOG SUCOMSUVERB SUNNOG SUCOORD SUNNOG SURELSSUN SUENDThese Segmentation Units obtained from IDENTIFICA-TION themselves constitute the terminal vocabulary of asecond CFG GROUPING.
\[Both CFGs (IDENTIFICA-TION and GROUPING) here only contain the categoriesoccurring in the example (1).\] Its task consists of movingfrom the terminal Segmentation Units to the axiom TXS(Text Sentence) by way of a left-to-right, bottom-upparsing, providing a decomposition of the sentence intoclauses and indicating their mutual relations.List of  abbreviations:TXS Text SentenceCS Complex SentenceS SentenceNOV NOGC + VERBALNOGC Complex Noun GroupSSBCL Sequence of Subordinate Clause(s)CSBCLC (Comma) SBCL (Comma)SBCL Subordinate ClausePOST Postverbal domainNEUTC Complex Neuter UnitNEUT Neuter Unit ( / - -  NOG)GROUPING: (TV1, NTV1, TXS, R1)TV1 :SUNNOG; SUCOM; SURELS; SUVERB;SUCOORD; SUN; SUENDNTV1 :CS; S; NOV; NOGC; VERBAL; POST; NEUTC;NEUT; SSBCL; CSBCLC; SBCLR1 1 : TXS ~ CSSUEND2 : CS -~ S(SUCOMS ISUCOORDS)*3 : S -~ (SSBCL) (SUCOM)NOV4 : NOV -~ NOGC VERBAL5 : NOGC ~ NOG(SSBCL)6 : NOG ~ SUNNOG ( SUCOM SUNNOGI SUCOORD SUNNOG )*7 : VERBAL--,- SUVERB ( POST )8 : POST --~ NOGC I NEUTC9 : NEUTC --~ NEUT ( SSBCL )10 : NEUT -~ SUN (SUCOM SUN I SUCOORDSUN )*11 : SSBCL ~ CSBCLC I SBCL ( SUCOM SBCLI SUCOORD SBCL I SUCOMVERBAL )*12 " CSBCLC-" ( SUCOM ) SUBCL ( SUCOM )13 : SBCL ~ SURELS (POST)AS a single correct result of GROUPING, we obtain forour example the structure represented in Figure 2.It can be easily demonstrated that some other deriva-tion attempts will not succeed; thus, for instance, if wetry to apply rule 2 of GROUPING in order to arrive at acoordination of main clauses through the conjunction et,the second presumed main clause will not be completablesince a verb phrase is missing (in contrast o a sequencesuch as .
.
.
et les pays africains (relative clause) souffri-ront de la famine.).
For another case of an ineffectualattempt, we can note rule 11, which would initiate acoordinate Sequence of Subordinate Clauses (SSBCL),;here this would lead to a missing verb phrase belongingto the first SUNNOG of the sentence.Each correct augmentation result - such as the one inFigure 2 - forms the basis upon which the subsequentPHASE III of ASCOF will then operate clause by clause.\[We are at present working on the combination of thedifferent distinct parts (word class disambiguation/decomposition into simple syntactic units;IDENTIFICATION and GROUPING); this conception willultimately lead to a single CFG achieving PHASE II ofASCOF.\]4.44.4.1The task of analyzing verb sequences, the first step ofPHASE III (cf.
Figure la), is to group together isolatedverb elements (finite verbs, participle I, participle II,infinitive) within a segment to assign a structuraldescription to these phrases (e.g., to determine VOICEand TENSE) and - ultimately - to interpret hose phrasesas nodes of a tree structure.The grammar of the verbal analysis is conceived as atwo-step ATN (cf.
Biewer 1985).The transitions between the different states of theATN are guided primarily by a subclassification of verbelements (e.g., participle II of avoir).
The conception ofthe ATN enables the processing of an unlimited numberof infinitive phrases; the integration of these infinitivephrases into the tree structure is governed by categorialinformation - recorded in dictionaries - as well as bytests concerning the syntactic ontext.
Nevertheless, theinterpretation of non-complex infinitive phrases as nodesof a dependency tree does not exclude ambiguities thatcannot be resolved at this stage of the verbal analysis.Accordingly, it is a set of hypothetical structures, gainedby purely syntactic and surface-related data, that formsthe output of the verbal analysis.4.4.2When the analysis of verb phrases is completed, thesentence is structured in such a way that parts of mainand subordinate clauses and their interrelations are iden-tified.
Furthermore, non-complex syntactic (one-nu-clear) noun and prepositional phrases as well as verbsequences are determined.
An interactive componentoperates on this input performing (1) the complementanalysis, (2) the analysis of complex (multinuclear) nounand prepositional phrases, and (3) the disambiguation ofComputational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2~3, April-September 1985 141Axel Biewer, Christian F6neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOF:l r..).8/ pO ~ 0 ~  O' / / ~  ~ ~u u ~U'(.
)m~Figure 2.
Tree-structure of the segmented phrase.142 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Axel Biewer, Christian F~neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentr i t t  ASCOFlexical items, all according to syntactic and semanticcriteria.In contrast o many other systems of machine trans-lation or linguistic data processing, semantics and syntaxare here equally treated, neither having priority over theother.
Another characteristic feature is the interactionbetween each step of analysis: the complement analysisdetermines the head of a complement (SUB, K1, K2 inFigure 3), and the internal structure of the complementitself (hypotactic and paratactic relations) is determinedby the complex nominal analysis (NOMAL), the findingsof which are then returned to complement analysis (cf.Figure 3).
This interactive procedure is guided by thesyntactic-semantic features of the dominating verb.
Therequired syntactic features have already been calculatedin the previous analysis; in contrast, the semantic infor-mation is memorized in the data base of the semanticnetwork and must be taken from there (cf.
4.4.4).ASCOF analysis offers, as output, syntactic-functionalstructure trees representing a synthesis of constituentsand dependencies.In the complement analysis, the dictionary entries ofthe verb - the verb being the central node of thesentence - determine those noun or prepositional phrasesthat belong to the verbal frame.
The remaining phrasesare parts of complex noun or prepositional phrases or ofadverbials.
For the preverbal and postverbal fields,complement analysis operates eparately, reflecting thedissimilar structure of both fields.
The component SUB,operating in the preverbal field, defines subjects of non-dominated verbs as well as possibly occurring pronominalcomplements; dominated verbs (e.g., causativeconstructions) are analyzed by another component, notdescribed in this paper (INFSUB, cf.
Stegentritt (1982,1984)).
In the postverbal field, the components K1 andK2 are activated for the complement analysis.
In everycase, only the first constituent of the complement isdetermined.
Then the component NOMAL (cf.
4.4.3) iscalled and investigates the structure of the identifiedcomplement.The component determining the subject (SUB) isbipartite; in addition to the preverbal pronominalcomplements, the first part also defines the subject,provided that it is a pronominal subject.
If there is nopronominal subject, part two defines a nominal subject.in the first part, the analysis progresses from right to left,starting at the finite verb/auxiliary.
All preverbialelements are processed subsequently, until a pronominalsubject is found.Figure 4 represents the first phase of SUB as an ATN.The different paths correspond to the possible distrib-utions of syntactic phrases in the preverbal field of theFrench language.
If the verb is directly preceded by acomma, it is highly probable that this comma indicatesthe end of an insertion, such as in sentence (4).
In thiscase, the analysis is continued up to the next comma,with no consideration of the insertion.
The edges andstates of the ATN that had been activated are listed in(4a).H r,.t~Figure 3.
Interaction of different components in Phase III.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers  2 -3 ,  Apr i l -September  1985f~ t-if~0143Axel Biewer, Christian F6neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOF1448~1 I~ ~1 -/  /~'~1 I~ =1 / /0,eZ00ZmIE~I--4eeI-IZ0 I--t0 UlF igure  4.
ATN grammar  o f  the  preverba l  f ie ld.Computational Linguistics, Volume 1 i ,  Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Axel Biewer, Christian F~neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOF(4) .
.
.
qui, ~ l'article 4, pr6voit .
.
.
(4a) 1 - COMMA - 2 - ( not COMMA)*4 - 2 - COMMA-1In the first phase, combinations of clitics as noted in (5) -(7) may be identified.
(5) il ne le lui propose pas(5a) 1 - JUMP - 9 - LUI - 10 - PRN(acc) - 12 - JUMP- 5 - NEG - 6 - PRN-Subject - 8 - STOP(6) il me le donne(6a) 1 - JUMP - 9 JUMP - 10 PRN(acc) - 11 -PRN(dat) - 12 - JUMP - 5 JUMP - 6 PRN-Subject- 8 - STOP(7) il m'en parle(7a) 1 - EN - 3 - JUMP - PRN(dat) - 5 - JUMP - 6 -PRN-Subject - 8 - STOPIf the network comes to the end of a clause or meets aconfiguration ot covered by the rules, the second phaseof analysis - starting at the beginning of the clause in thereverse direction of analysis - is called to search for thefirst nominal phrase (i.e., the leftmost).
This is, however,a mere candidate for subject function, the form of asyntactic phrase (NNOG) not yet indicating the actualfunction of this phrase.
As an illustration, compare (8).
(8) Apr~s les changements decours pour le froment,l'avoine et la seigle, la directive ( .
.
.
)touche ( .
.
.
)As the set of rules in this second phase supplies the firstnoun phrase (NNOG, = l'avoine in (8)) as a subject, thephrase in question must be checked as to whether or notit is part of a coordination of prepositional phrases inwhich the preposition can be deleted.
This subject-con-trol mechanism presupposes that the coordinatingconjunctions et or ou always indicate the end of a coordi-nation.
It follows that the subject candidate cannot bethe subject if the following structure is given:(9) CANDIDATE-COORD-NNOG-COMMA-NNOG-VERBIn this structure, however, the final preverbal NNOG (in(8), la directive) is the correct subject.
In structure (10):(10) CANDIDATE-COORD-NNOG-VERBthe subject candidate is confirmed.
The head of thesubject having been identified, phase NOMAL is called toexamine a possibly complex internal structure of thesubject and further potentially complex nominal sentenceelements in the preverbal field - as, for example, theadverbial insertion ~ l'article 4 in sentence (4) (cf.
4.4.3).The complement analysis in the postverbal field iscarried out by another pair of components (K1 and K2),also cooperating with NOMAL.
K1 is the less sophisti-cated complex, identifying nothing but direct comple-ments - which it recognizes merely by form - andprepositional complements obligatorily demanded by theverb.
Yet because of the various functions prepositionalphrases may assume, prepositional complements at thisstage are to be identified only if no more than one PGwithin the segment is a potential candidate.
Applied toour example (1)(1) la directive du Conseil du 20 juillet, qui, ~ l'article 4,pr6voit une augmentation du prix du mais de 3%,touche les r6gions du sud et les pays africains quid6pendent de ce produit d'importation.the results are:- for prgvoir: une augmentation as a direct object- for toucher: les rdgions as a direct object.Again, the determination of the coordinative relationshipbetween rdgions and pays is given within NOMAL (cf.4.4.3).Yet, whenever the prepositional complement isoptional or when more than one candidate for an obliga-tory prepositional complement is available, semanticcriteria must be observed in addition to formal andsyntactic criteria in order to correctly determine thecomplements.The semantic restrictions that must be respected whena certain phrase is attributed the function of a comple-ment are denoted in the verb entry in the dictionary.According to these (semantic) restrictions, the algorithmsearches for the required criteria, namely among thenuclear lexemes of the potential complement phraseunder consideration.
The semantic information for theselexemes, however, is not stored with their dictionaryentries (e.g., nouns) themselves, but is represented by asemantic network (cf.
4.4.4).The strategy used by ASCOF in K2 shall be illustratedby the three verbs in sentence (1).Prdvoir does not demand the attribution of a furthercomplement, the verbal frame being saturated as soon asune augmentation is identified as a direct complement.The verb toucher raises other problems; toucher mayoccul"a. without any complement: le tireur d'dlite a touchg.b.
with a direct complement: il touche ma main.c.
with an h-complement: le chercheur touche au but.d.
with a direct complement and an optional de- comple-ment: il m'a touchd du doigt.As to sentence (1), the direct complement les rdgionshaving been located, it must still be examined whetherone of the following de-phrases i a complement; hat is,whether verbal frame (b) or (d) is valid.
A de-phrase,however, can for instance be the complement of toucherif the noun of this phrase is semantically abeled as "partof the body".
Consequently, the semantic value of thenuclear lexemes of the de-phrase following les rdgionsmust be examined in this respect.
The results obtainedthrough consultation of the semantic network show thatthe nuclear lexeme (sud) of this phrase does not satisfythe required condition.
It follows that verbal frame (b) isactualized in this sentence.
Simultaneously, this analysisdefines the reading of the verb.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 145Axel Biewer, Christian F~neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOFAs to the last verb of sentence (1), ddpendre, no directcomplement can be found.
Thus the reading 'to bedependent on' versus the reading 'to take down' is imme-diately determined.
This reading of d6pendre demands anobligatory de-valency.
Yet no restrictions can be formu-lated for the semantic quality of the nuclear lexeme ofthe de-phrase.
This implies that only formal and syntac-tic criteria can be considered.
In the case of the firstphase, de ce produit, the formal and syntactic riteria holdtrue (a preposition introducing a phrase, an article) andthus allow this phrase to be identified as a complementand handed over as a head-phrase to the analysis of thecomplex noun phrases.
A second run of K2 checks thefollowing phrase, d'importation, which is rejected bythose criteria identifying this phrase as a compound inNOMAL.
The criteria are: no proper noun, number =singular, no article, no attribute.
One single attribution isperformed accordingly.An interesting variant of sentence (1) is:(11) .
.
.
drpendent de l'effet de l'importation.where both phrases may function as a complement.
Ifthe second phrase (de l'importation) is identified as acomplement, he first postverbal phrase can only be attri-buted the function of an adverbial.
In a concludingcontrol phase for those phrases scheduled as adverbials,the structure variant of de l'effet as an adverbial and del'importation as a complement can be erased, effet notbeing apt to assume the function of an adverbial in thisphrase, in contrast o prepositional phrases, such as decette mani~re or de cette faqon.4.4.3The task of the analysis of complex noun phrases (multi-nuclear noun- and prepositional phrases) is to identifytheir boundaries and to describe their internal structures,i.e., to determine the syntactic-functional relationsbetween the various parts of the complex.
\[For moredetails, cf.
Ritzke (1985).\]The following syntactic-functional relations aredefined for the analysis:- head-function of the central phrase of a complex (lamaison du pkre)- paratactic relations of phrases depending on the head:coordination (CO): the coordinated phrase has thesame syntactic function as the phrase with which it iscoordinated (l~tude de la dgtermination et de la classi-.fication).apposition (AP): a paratactic relation on the level ofsyntactic analysis (du froment tendre, plante comestiblequi .
.
.
)- hypotactic relations of phrases depending on the head:prepositional complement/object (PO): signalizes avery close relation between two phrases; the preposi-tion of the second phrase is mostly synsemantic; thePO and the inflectional case of the two languages(French, German) frequently correspond to eachother  (la voix de son mat t re -  die Stimme seines Herrn).\[For more details concerning the function of prep-ositions and their analysis, cf.
Ritzke ( 1981).\]prepositional complement/part of a compound (PC):impfies an even closer unity of the two phrases; PCand the governing phrase, in contrast o other struc-tural units, represent primary units often functioningas a one-nucleus phrase; this is of great importance tothe language pair French and German, the complexphrase in French being equivalent o a German one-word compound (e.g., la notation de base - Basisnota-tion)prepositional attribute (PA): signals a relatively freerelation to position and introductory preposition,which is always autosemantic; for this reason, the PAmay assume many different semantic values (e.g.,temporal or local attribute, etc.)
un groupe simple g~l'intdrieur du syntagme).Basic elements for the analysis of complex nounphrases are syntactic phrases having only one nucleus.They may occur in the form of noun phrases, preposi-tional phrases, or pronouns functioning as nouns.Every one-nucleus noun - or prepositional - phrase ofthese basis elements is directly relevant o the analysis ofcomplex noun phrases as a potential element of acomplex phrase.
Every non-nominal phrase (e.g., verbphrase, etc.)
is indirectly relevant as an indicator of theboundary of the complex.As for French, the identification of the left boundaryof a complex noun phrase presents no problem since thephrase furthest left of a complex is its central phrase (itshead) in the majority of cases.
The head represents thesyntactic function of the whole complex on the sentencelevel and at the same time marks the boundary of the leftside.
Further phrases are located on the right side of thehead, the analysis being directed from left to right.The head of a complex noun phrase is identified anddetermined in syntax and function by means of the anal-ysis of verb complements.
The complement analysisforms an interacting system with the analysis of nominalcomplexes - as explained above.
The potential head of apotential complex noun phrase, identified by complementanalysis, is a signal for the call of the complex nominalanalysis.The search for further phrases on the right side of thehead begins at the head.
Here, two phrases are checkedto identify a boundary.
These phrases consist of thehead on the left and a dependent phrase on the rightwhich is connected with this head.
The syntactic func-tion is simultaneously identified.
Thereupon, comple-ment analysis is called again to determine furthercomplements or non-complements, respectively.Non-complements (adverbials) may also have acomplex internal structure.
Accordingly, after the analy-sis of complex-structured complements, non-comple-ments are analyzed as to their possibly complex structure.The preverbal field is investigated first.
If, for example,the complex structure of a subject has been identifiedthere, a further complex nominal analysis is undertaken146 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Axel Biewer, Christian F6neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOFfor the first phrase of the sentence - provided that thisphrase is identified as adverbial and that other phrasesfollow in the field between its position and the head ofthe subject.
This is done in order to clarify whether thisphrase is a central phrase of an adverbial complex.A similar approach is applied for the postverbal field:first the complements, then the non-complements, areanalyzed as to their possibly complex internal structures.In principle every phrase can be related to anotherphrase in its direct neighborhood.
This phrase again maydominate a subsequent phrase, etc., so that highly recur-sive structures may appear within a nominal complex(right-branches cascades).At the same time two related phrases may be discon-nected by other phrases, when several phrases of differ-ent syntactical relations are dependent upon the samephrases.
In addition to the potentially recursive struc-tures, discontinuous relations must be detected as well.The algorithm NOMAL has been conceived especiallyfor the solution of those recursions and discontinuitieswithin the complex nominal syntax (cf.
Figure 5).NOMAL is a procedural (sub)system similar to anATN.
Each syntactic function has its own procedure.The procedures are called successively by the mainprogram whenever a pair of phrases - the head and theactual phrase - is examined.
The identification of therelation that is - or is not - established between bothphrases is governed by rules containing conditions for thehead and the actual phrase.
Each procedure is providedby a proper set of rules; the monitoring of the rule condi-tions is carried out by test operations on edges.If the testing of a rule attains a positive result - that is,if the conditions in this rule for head and actual phrasehold true - the phrases are unified and their relationinterpreted according to the procedure where the rulewas found.
Valid conditions in the procedure PO, forexample, have the effect that the relation between thephrases is identified as a prepositional comple-ment/object.
The approach is analogous for the remain-ing procedures.
(INPUT)PROC: APPOSIT ION (OUTPUT)PROC: COORDINAT IONPREPOSIT IONALCOMPLEb~NT/OBJECTPROC: PREPOSIT IONALATTRIBUTEPROC : PREPOSIT IONALCOMPLEMENT/PARTOF A COMPOUNDFigure 5.
The subsystem NOMAL.Computational Linguistics, Volume I l, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 147Axel Biewer, Christian Frneyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOFThe actual phrase having thus been attributed a func-tion, it b_ecomes the head itself in the next run; the actualphrase will then be the subsequent phrase.
Analogously,further positive results gradually move the actual phraseto the head of the next run; the head is deferred to theright, thus allowing the correct analysis of recursivecascades.If none of the procedures attains a positive result, thenew run is begun with another head, that is, with thephrase to the left of the head last tested.
If there is stillno positive result, the head keeps moving analogously tothe left, until all the possibilities have been tried.
Theactual phrase is identical for all runs, thus allowing theanalysis of relations between two discontinuous phrases.In every case, a boundary is reached when none of theruns offers a positive result.
The former actual phrasethen no longer belongs to the complex but rather indi-cates its boundary.The conditions denoted in the rules consist ofmorpho-syntactic and semantic information.
Morpho-syntactic information (e.g., an article, the form of anintroductory preposition) can be read directly, the previ-ous step of the analysis having made it available.
Incontrast, the semantic information must be deduced fromthe semantic network, which serves as a data base for thesyntactic-functional analysis (cf.
4.4.4).The importance that evaluating rule conditions holdsfor the analysis hall be demonstrated in the following bythe complex noun phrases in example (1).The nominal complex Les rdgions du sud et les paysafricains:Formal indicators can be checked at this point for thedetermination of the paratactic relation: in our exam-ple, the coordinating conjunction et.
Commas and thesequences of comma and conjunction may be evalu-ated as well.
Yet the mere checking of such indicatorsis generally not sufficient for determining the properparts of a coordination.In order to determine the correct parts, the seman-tics of the nouns must also be checked, that is, thecloseness of the semantic relation between the candi-dates in question must be checked in the example.This is accomplished by retrieving operations withinthe semantic network using the nominal exemes of thedifferent phrases.
The common generic term(geographic place), which is reached by rdgion andpays, satisfy the two conditions: coordination i dicatoret and greatest semantic loseness.
They are parts ofthe coordination, the phrase du sud is recognized to bea prepositional complement/object of the first phraseby the procedure PO.
The result is the followingstructure:((les r6gions (du sud)(PO)) (les pay africains)(CO))The nominal complex la directive du Conseil du 20 juillet:For hypotactic relations, too, the examination ofsemantic riteria is necessary over and above that ofthe syntactic conditions.
The search for a certainpreposition at the beginning of a clause - in our exam-pie, de as an indicator of object references - must beperformed by examining the semantic loseness of thenuclei (nouns) of the phrases.
In the given example,the direct time indication, which suggests an attribu-tive relation, is thus identified.
In the network, atemporal attribution is closer to the information of 'actof legislation' (connected with the lexeme directive)than to 'institution' (connected with the actual readingof the lexeme Conseil).
Accordingly, valid conditionsexist for the.
relation of prepositionalcomplement/object between la directive and duConseil and for the relation prepositional attributebetween la directive and du 20 juillet.
The last relationis discontinuous.
The result of the analysis is thefollowing structure:((la directive (du Conseil)(PO))(du 20 juillet)(PA))The nominal complex une augmentation du prix du marsde3%:The last non-complex phrase, de 3 %, of this complexphrase holds a - likewise discontinuous - relation tothe first phrase, une augmentation, whereas theremaining de-phrases form a cascade and eachdepends upon its preceding phrase (the relation ofprepositional complement/object).The phrase de 3%,  an indication of quantity, ismore closely related to the action, augmentation(action/state of affairs: increase), by the correspond-ing edge configuration in the network than to prix(notion of a measure) or to ma~s (plant, agriculturalproduct).
Accordingly, a relation is establishedbetween de 3% and une augmentation, disregardingthe interposed phrases.
The result is the followingstructure:((une augmentation((du prix (du mais)(PO))(PO))(de 3% )(PA)))The nominal complex de ce produit d'importation:In order to determine the relation between the twophrases, formal criteria may be more readily appliedthan in the previous cases.
The second phrase is char-acterized by the fact that neither a determinative noran attributive lement is contained or follows.
More-over, the nominal nucleus neither is in the plural nor isit a proper name.
The phrase is introduced by thepreposition de.
All the characteristics are rule condi-tions for an actual phrase in the procedure preposi-tional complement/part of a compound.
Theseconditions being fulfilled and no other candidate beingpresent, the relation between the phrases may bedetermined in this particular case without semanticexaminations.
The result is the bracketing:(de ce produit (d'importation)(PC))As it is difficult in many cases, mainly in the postver-bal field, to determine a function with certainty after asingle run of the analysis of complex noun phrases, deci-sions are made only if there is no doubt (e.g., if there is148 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Axel Biewer, Christian F6neyrol, Johannes ~Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOFonly one potential candidate or if candidates can beexcluded because of semantic incompatibility, etc.
).Otherwise a solution must be sought through repeatedinteraction with its complement analysis, which mustthen be given priority.
Yet, given the basic alternative ofthe PP-attachment (complement, adverbial, part of acomplex noun phrase), a reliable solution cannot alwaysbe found and several solutions may be admitted in suchdoubtful cases.4.4.4Conceding that structural descriptions within machinetranslation - functioning as the input for a transferringcomponent and thus defining a sort of "interlingua" -cannot be established without semantic information, theappropriate form for representing this information as wellas its integration into the analysis process appears to becontroversial.With regard to the various ways of integrating seman-tic information, and above all to the proper moment of itsintegration, there are two extremely different points ofview.
On the one hand, syntax may be accorded absolutepriority, in such a way that all syntactic and structuraldescriptions of a given input sentence are generated andonly then semantically interpreted and filtered accordingto the semantic information.
On the other hand, theanalyzing algorithm can be guided by semantic informa-tion, the "level" of syntactic relations only beingconsulted as a secondary control mechanism.Most machine translation systems favor the first pointof view, partly owing to the history of this science.
Yetthen, of course, the problem with highly complexsentences i how to deal with syntactic ambiguities.
If,for example, an input sentence is attributed a number oftree structure by the syntax-driven analysis, part of thesyntactic relations will necessarily be represented redun-dantly; if, on the other hand, the input sentence is attri-buted a chart or chart-like structural description by thesyntactic analysis, much more time must be sacrificed tothe semantic omponent - as a consequence of the morecomplex input structure.Semantically driven parsers, whose equivalents canmainly be found in language-oriented AI research, guar-antee a highly efficient parsing, but are extremelydependent upon their discourse area, due to their consid-erably limited "expectancy", and generally operate onnon-complex sentences, linguistically speaking.In order to isolate correct structural descriptions assoon as possible, cross-connections between syntax andsemantics are established by the ASCOF system (cf.4.4.2).
This is to say that semantic information is madeavailable for the identification of syntactic-functionalrelations and that, vice versa, syntactic and functionalrelations can be used for semantic interpretation (disam-biguation).The flow of information between syntax and semanticin ASCOF analysis is therefore not based on a phasemodel (e.g., the sequential operations of separatemodules).
The semantic information in the ASCOFsystem is stored in a semantic network.
(For differentconceptions of semantic networks, cf., above all, Findler(1979).
)The implementation f the network structure is basedon the COMSKEE data structure "dictionary", which is astring-indexed array (of variable length) over strings (ofvariable length) that can be held externally.
"Of variablelength" means that a string can be of any size so that itslength is only limited by the memory space of themachine.ARRAY STRING indentif ier?the entrycan also bea composeddata type(a record)the index (keyword)~can  take an arbitrary Ivalue of the data type Istring /the (optional) / /EXTERN-markinomeans  that thedict ionary isstored in anexternal massstorageFigure 6.
Declaration of the COMSKEE data structure "dictionary".Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985 149Axel Biewer, Christian F6neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOFA module that interprets this structure as a networkoperates on the "dictionary", as shown in Figure 7a.\[Figures 7a-7c.
Structures of the dictionary entry.\]7a.
mdexhouseholdutensilartifactent ryISA : artifactlISA : concrete objectA part of the entry can be the index (keyword) ofanother entry.
Thus it is not necessary to store explicitlythe information that a person has a head; rather thisinformation can be deduced on demand by following anISA path, which means in our implementation, interpret-ing an array element such as:7b.
i ndex  ent ryA ISA: B,as a pointer from A to B labeled by ISA, as inISA7c.
A > BAll directly addressable nodes in the network repre-sent basic forms that point to semantically unambiguousreadings following denoting edges.
Consequently, theyrepresent he FORM-CONTENT relation.
For example,the basic lexical form cuisini~re points in the semanticreadings of 'female cook' and 'oven', following thedenoting edges, as Figure 8 shows:As also shown in Figure 8, several basic lexical formsmay refer to the same semantic reading when followingthe denoting edges.
The relation defined by denotingedges thus takes into account he linguistic phenomena ofsynonymy and polysemy.ISA edges, which define a special implicit relation, areimportant for two reasons.
First, they allow the definingof a sort of semantic distance between linguistic units,and second, they economically administer informationdeducible by inheritance paths.Semantic distance in the linguistic sense may be ofimportance for the correct identification of coordinativestructures.
The complex noun phrase in(12) La vente des r6frig6rateurs et des cuisini6resmay - on a purely syntactic level - be attributed twostructures (des can be interpreted as a preposition as wellas an indefinite article), cf.
Figures 9a and 9b:Based on the information as illustrated in Figure 8, itis now possible to carry out a lexeme disambiguation ofcuisiniere (namely, as (cuisini~re 2)) as well as to givestructure 9a priority over structure 9b, since(cuisini6re 2) is semantically more closely related tordfrig~rateur than (cuisini~re 1) and, furthermore, since(cuisini6re 1) and (cuisini~re 2) are more closelyrelated to the node 'r6frig6rateur' than to 'vente'.Because of the relations expressed in Figure 8, structure9c can be assigned to sentence 12:As made clear by this example, syntactic-functionaland semantic decisions are made almost simultaneouslyin ASCOF.
A system admitting a two-phase model forthe informational flow between syntax and semanticswould not only have to organize the ambiguity of struc-tures in sentence (12) but - in order to undertake alexeme disambiguation of cuisinidre - would also have toconstruct exactly those syntactic relations directly avail-able in an interactive system like ASCOFFor lexeme disambiguation as well as for the identifi-cation of syntactic-functional relations, linguistics unitsthat may function as predicates are of major importance.These are primarily adjectives and verbs.
Each "verbalnode" following denoting edges refers to a set of verbalframes whose complement slots are described by syntac-tic and semantic onditions.In detail, each complement slot is attributed thefollowing information.o A complex of conditions that must be fulfilled by asyntactic phrase in order to function as the correspond-ing complement:- syntactic onditions- semantic ,conditions (to be fulfilled by the head ofthe phrase in question)e.g., for toucher in 4.4.2, the formal-syntactic condi-tions for the prepositional object are: preposition =de; the semantic ondition for the relevant head is :ISA: part of the body.- the necessary occurrence of the argument- the possibility of rejecting competitive verbal framesIn the following, the procedure and the efficiency ofthe semantic network within the syntactic-functionalanalysis shall be explained with the aid of a represen-tative example.The French verb fumer, for instance, is assigned threeverbal frames; they correspond to the readings of 'tosmoke a cigarette, to give off smoke, to smoke a trout',cf.
F igure  10 .As in Figure 10, a network relation between entitynodes and predicate nodes is established according tosemantic conditions defining the restrictions for thedifferent complement slots.
In Figure 10, this allows theinterpretation of ruiner as 'to give off smoke' and therejection of the other interpretations (cf.
the actioncommands within verbal frames).
This is to say thatonce cheminde is identified as a subject, there is no needto look for a direct object.
Furthermore, Figure 10demonstrates that "semantic markers" alone do not guar-antee correct semantic interpretations.
It is by no meanssufficient to know that poisson is a concrete object inorder to interpret fumer in(13) La cuisini~re fume du poissonin the sense of 'to smoke-dry'; because the meaning of(fumer 3) 'to smoke-dry' and (fumer__2) 'to smoke' -150 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Axel Biewer, Christian F~neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOF- -  " .
.
.
-tS,~ tO~.~(CUIS IN IERE i) ISA> .. ISA>(PERSON)~ ~ (CONCRETEOBJ )"CUISINIERE" ~ ~ %~,~/o~)~A'~.
-k  (CUI S INIERE 2) > UT~.NSIL) 2 ........ ISA (HOUSEHOLD ISA  c ~TrFAr.,~ /,, RE FR i GERATEUR ,~OT~ ~.
.~ /'7~O~.
.~ (REFRI GEP~ATEUR ) ~ /"FRIGIDAIRE" ~ 9~N ~Figure 8.
Example of the network structure.NNOG NNOGI / \VENTE VENTE CUI S INIEREREFRIGERATEUR CUISINIERE REFRI GERATEURFigures 9a-9b.
Possible phrase-structures of (12).NNOGIVENTE/ \REFRIGERATEUR CUISINIERE 2Figure 9e.
Correct interpretation f (12).Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2 -3 ,  Apri l -September 1985 151Axel Biewer, Christian F~neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOFas in (14) - is not discernible by the semantic marker/concrete/ .
(14) La cuisini~re fume une cigaretteIn a componential model, every animal would have to bemarked /can be smoked (dried)/, whereas in thenetwork model this information may be deduced byfollowing a "function" arc from 'animal' to 'viande'.Moreover, with the complement identification, semanticconditions attributed to the different complement slotsmay be considered for lexeme disambiguation.
Forexample, the reading 'oven' for the noun cuisini~re in(13) and (14) can be rejected on grounds of the semanticconditions attributed to the subject slots.At the end of this part of the analysis, the syntactic-functional structure of the sentence is produced (i.e.,main and sub-/coordinate clauses, the verb predicate andits complements, adverbials, as well as the internal struc-ture of noun and prepositional phrases are identified).The analysis yields no interlingual structures but ratherstructures more closely related to the source language.These are represented by canonical trees.
At the sametime, due to the interaction between syntax and seman-tics, many of the lexical ambiguities are resolved.
Beforestarting ASCOF's final two phases of transfer and synthe-sis, any remaining ambiguities must be cleared up espe-cially by means of further semantic information.4.54.5.1The phases of the system subsequent o the analysisinclude a transformation component (transfer andsyntactic synthesis) and a morphological synthesis.
Inthe transfer phase, the source language lemmata re firstreplaced by their target language quivalents.
Here it isnot sufficient to merely exchange lexemes since targetlanguage differences of a lexical nature arising fromsyntax and/or  semantics need to be borne in mind.Instead, the replacement process must take into consider-ation the information contained in the analysis tree, forexample, the syntactic and semantic verb frame actuali-zation.
Subsequent to the lexical transfer, the analysisstructures are transferred to the structures appropriate tothe target language (syntactic synthesis).
This transfercomponent is implemented as a tree transformation algo-rithm that interprets externally stored rules (transforma-tion instructions).
Linguistic data and algorithm are thusstrictly separated from one another so that this compo-nent may also be used for other language pairs.
Thetransformation algorithm runs through the analysis treein preorder, tests for each node whether a package ofrules exists for the given node label and - provided thatthe conditions of a rule are fulfilled - carries out theinstructions that refer to some few elementary oper-ations.
The conditions and the transformationinstructions can refer to both subtrees and the attribute-value pairs associated with the node.
(For example, theinheritance of the target language gender of the head of aNOG to attribute and determiner complex.
)4.5.2The input for the morphological synthesis is the labeledtree taken from the syntactic synthesis.
In contrast o thesyntactic synthesis, the morphological synthesis operatesonly locally, in other words, the pre-terminal nodes areexamined and processed isolated from each other.
Treetransformations are thus no longer carried out.
The basicforms of the lexemes and the morpho-syntactic informa-tion from the pre-terminal nodes serve as keys that callthe appropriate rule of the morphological generativegrammar.
Grammar and algorithm are separate.
Thegrammar for the morphological synthesis of German isable to generate German word forms, provided that thenecessary information supplied from all of the precedingphases is complete and accurate.5 FUTURE PROSPECTSThe ASCOF system has been implemented in the sectionsdescribed in the present paper and has in part alreadybeen tested.
Here we have a version that covers syntac-tic structures and vocabulary based on texts (EC bulle-tins) taken from the agricultural sphere.
The vocabularyof this sphere is completely covered on the morpho-syn-tactic level.
As yet, owing to the complexity of thesemantics, the semantic data bases (semantic network)has been developed only as a prototype.
The improve-ment of .the quality of the translations performed byASCOF is basically dependent upon the development andelaboration of the semantic networks.REFERENCESBates, Madeleine 1978 The Theory and Practice of Augmented Tran-sition Network Grammars.
In Bolc, Leonard, Ed., Natural LanguageCommunication with Computers.
Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, NewYor, W. Germany/USA: 191-259.Biewer, Axel 1985 Ein ATN zur Verbalgruppenanalyse desFranz~sischen.
I  Figge, Udo L. 1985: 13-26.Boitet, Christian; Guillaume, Pierre; and Qu6zel-Ambrunaz, Maurice1982 Implementation a d Conversational Environment of ARIANE78.4.
An Integrated System for Automated Translation and HumanRevision.
In Fix et al 1985: 225-236.F6neyrol, Christian 1982 La forme en (-ant): un probl~me del'analyse automatique du fran~ais.
In Fix et al 1985: 237-262.F6neyrol, Christian 1983 La segmentation automatique de la phrasedans le cadre de l'analyse du frant;ais.
In Actes du Colloque Interna-tional Informatique t Sciences Humaines.
1981.
LASLA.
Universitdde Liege.
Liege, Belgium: 353-368.F6neyrol, Christian; Ritzke, Johannes; and Stegentritt, Erwin 1984Esquisse d'une analyse fonctionnelle du fran~ais (ASCOF).
In Acresde la Xle Conference Internationale de I'ALLC.
Louvain-la-Neuve.Forthcoming.F6neyrol, Christian and Stegentritt, Erwin 1982 Komplementanalysein komplexen S~itzen des Franz~sischen.
In Stegentritt, Erwin, Ed.,Maschinelle Sprachverarbeitung 1981.
Vortage auf  der 12.
Jahresta-gung der GAL, Mainz 1981.
Sektion Maschinelle Sprachverarbeitung.Sprachwissenschaft - Computerlinguistik 8.
AQ, Dudweiler, W.Germany: 55-68.Figge, Udo L., Ed.
1985 Romanistik und Datenverarbeitung 1983.Akten des Deutschen Romanistentages, Berlin 1983.
Sektion Romanis-152 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985Axel Biewer, Christian F6neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOFNNOG < FORM/ACTSUBJECTREJECT FUMERI2 JJ ,J REJECT FUMER/i"fumer" | AND FUNNR/3 IACTFORM MEANING~ SUBJECT IMEANING > ISA : (PERSON)I REJECT FUMER/2 1;MND FUM~R/3JDIRECTCOMPLEMENT) FORMFORM> NNOGISA : SMOKED PRODUCTS~) NOT (ISA : (PERSON))J REJECT FUMER/2 INNOGSUBJECTMEANING > ISA : (PERSON)I REJECT FUMER/I 1AND FUMER/24% iISAFORMMEANING(VIANDE)Figure 10.
Verbal frame of the verb fumer.Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985> ~oc153Axel Biewer, Christian F~neyrol, Johannes Ritzke, Erwin Stegentritt ASCOFtik und Datenverarbeitung.
Sprachwissenschaft - Computerlinguistik11.
AQ, Dudweiler, W. Germany.Findler, Nicholas 1979 Associative Networks, Representation and Use ofKnowledge by Computers.
Academic Press, New York, San Francis-co, London, USA/Great Britain.Fix, Hans; Rothkegel, Annely; and Stegentritt, Erwin, Eds.
1985 Spra-chen und Computer, Festschrift zum 75.
Geburtstag yon Hans Eggers.Sprachwissenschaft - Computerlinguistik 9.
AQ, Dudweiler, W.Germany.Huckert, Edgar 1979 Automatische Synthese des FranzOsischen aus einerlogischen Basis.
Sprachwissenschaft - Computerlinguistik 2.
AQ,Dudweiler, W. Germany.Marcus, Mitchell P. 1981 A Theory of Syntactic Recognition for NaturalLanguage.
MIT Press, Cambridge, London, USA/Great Britain.Messerschmidt, Jan 1984 Linguistische Datenverarbeitung mitCOMSKEE.
Teubner, Stuttgart, W. Germany.Mueller-v. Brochowski et al 1981 The Programming LanguageCOMSKEE, 2nd Revised Report.
Linguistische Arbeiten, Neue Folge,4.
SFB 100, Saarbrt~cken, W. Germany.Reding, Helene 1985 TransformationskomponentefiirBaumstrukturen.Linguistische Arbeiten, Neue Folge, 11.
SFB 100, Saarbr0cken, W.Germany.Ritzke, Johannes 1981 Probldme de l'analyse automatique desprdpositions du frangais.
In Schwarze, Christoph, Ed., Analyse desprgpositions, l l le Colloque franco-allemand de linguistique thgoriquedu 2 au 4 fdvrier 1981 gl Constance.
Niemeyer, Ttibingen, W.Germany: 139-157.Ritzke, Johannes 1982 Zur automatischen A alyse adverbialer Rela-tionen.
In Fix et al 1985: 287-307.Ritzke, Johannes 1985 Automatische Analyse des FranzOsischen:Komplexe Nominalstrukturen.
I  Figge, Udo L. 1985: 37-54.Stegentritt, Erwin 1978 MORPHO H B. Automatische derivationelleAnalyse des FranzOsischen.
Sprachwissenschaft - Computerlinguistik1.
AQ, Dudweiler, W~ Germany.Stegentritt, Erwin 1982 LAISSER + Infinitiv - Konstruktionen i  derautomatischen A alyse des Franzdsischen.
In Fix et al 1985: 309-327.Stegentritt, Erwin 1983 Apergu d'une analyse automatique dufrangais.
In Cignoni, Laura and Peters, Carol, Eds., LinguisticaComputazionale, Vol.
I lL Supplement Actes du Vile Congr~s deI'ALLC, Pisa 1982: 243-250.Stegentritt, Erwin 1984 Automatische Subjektidentifizierung ifranzdsisehen Infinitivs~itzen des Typs FAIRE + Infinitiv.
In Figge,Udo L., Ed., Romanistik und Datenverarbeitung 1981.
Akten der 10.Sektion des Deutschen Romanistentages, Regensberg 1981.
Sprachwis-senschaft - Computerlinguistik 7.
AQ, Dudweiler, W. Germany:22-38.Vauquois, Bernard 1975 La traduction automatique gtGrenoble.
Dunod,Paris, France.Woods, William A.
1980 Cascaded ATN Grammars.
AJCL 6(1):1-12.154 Computational Linguistics, Volume 11, Numbers 2-3, April-September 1985
