REFERENCE IDENTIF ICAT ION AND REFERENCE IDENTIF ICAT ION FA ILURESBradley A.  GoodmanBBN Laboratories10 Moulton StreetCambridge, Massachusetts 02238The goal of this work is the enrichment of human-machine interactions in a natural languageenvironment.
1 Because a speaker and listener cannot be assured to have the same beliefs, contexts,perceptions, backgrounds, or goals at each point in a conversation, difficulties and mistakes arise whena listener interprets a speaker's utterance.
These mistakes can lead to various kinds of misunder-standings between speaker and listener, including reference failures or failure to understand the speak-er's intention.
We call these misunderstandings miscommunication.
Such mistakes can slow, andpossibly break down, communication.
Our goal is to recognize and isolate such miscommunications andcircumvent hem.
This paper highlights a particular class of miscommunication - reference problems -by describing a case study and techniques for avoiding failures of reference.
We want to illustrate aframework less restrictive than earlier ones by allowing a speaker leeway in forming an utterance abouta task and in determining the conversational vehicle to deliver it.
The paper also promotes a new viewfor extensional reference.1 INTRODUCTIONCohen, Perrault, and Allen (1981) argued that " .
.
.
usersof question-answering systems expect them to do morethan just answer isolated questions - they expect systemsto engage in conversation.
In doing so, the system isexpected to allow users to be less than meticulouslyliteral in conveying their intentions, and it is expected tomake linguistic and pragmatic use of the previous dis-course."
Following in their footsteps, we want to buildrobust natural language processing systems that candetect and recover from miscommunication.
The devel-opment of such systems requires a study on how peoplecommunicate and how they recover from miscommuni-cation.
The study of miscommunication is a necessarytask for building natural anguage understanding systemssince any computer capable of communicating withhumans in natural language must be tolerant of thecomplex, imprecise, or ill-devised utterances that peopleoften use.
This paper summarizes the results of a disser-tation (Goodman 1984) that investigated the kinds ofmiscommunication that occur in human communication,with a special emphasis on reference problems: problemsa listener has in determining about whom or what aspeaker is talking.
To cope with such problems, weproposed an algorithm for extending the reference para-digm.
We have also implemented computer programs thatdemonstrate how one could solve these problems in anatural anguage understanding system.Our current research (Sidner et al 1981, 1983)assumes most dialogue as being cooperative and goaldirected: we assume that a speaker and listener are work-ing together to achieve a common goal.
In order for thelistener to interpret utterances, he must identify theunderlying plan or goal that the utterances reflect(Cohen 1978, Allen 1979, Sidner and Israel 1981, Sidner1985, Carberry 1985, Litman 1985, Pollack 1986).
Thisplan, however, is rarely obvious at the surface sentencelevel.
A central process, therefore, in the interpretationof utterances is the transformation of sequences ofcomplex, imprecise, or ill-devised utterances into well-specified plans that might be carried out by dialogueparticipants.
Within this process, miscommunication canoccur.
In this paper, we are particularly concerned withcases of miscommunication from the hearer's viewpoint,such as when the hearer is inattentive to, confused about,or misled about the intentions of the speaker.In ordinary exchanges peakers usually make assump-tions regarding what their listeners know about a topic ofdiscussion.
They will leave out details thought to besuperfluous (Appelt 1981?
McKeown 1983).
Since thespeaker eally does not know exactly what the listenerknows about a topic, it is easy to make statements thatcan be misinterpreted or not understood by the listenerCopyright1986 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission tocopy without fee all or part of this material isgranted provided thatthe copies are not made for direct commercial dvantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
To copyotherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/86/040273-305503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 273Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failuresbecause not enough details were presented.
One princi-pal source of trouble is the descriptions constructed bythe speaker to refer to actual objects in the world.
Adescription can be, for a given listener, either imprecise,confused, ambiguous, or overly specific.
In addition, itmight be interpreted under the wrong context (which cancause one of the problems with the description to occuror can cause the description to successfully refer when itshould not have).
As a result, reference identificationerrors 2 occur; the listener cannot determine what objectis being described.
The descriptions that cause referenceidentification failure are a type of "il l-formed" input.The blame for ill-formedness may lie partly with thespeaker and partly with the listener.
The speaker mayhave been sloppy or may not have taken the hearer intoconsideration.
The listener may be remiss, unwilling toadmit he can't understand the speaker, or unwilling toask the speaker for clarification.
It may even be the casethat the listener does not know that he has misunder-stood the speaker.The interactions that can occur among the speaker'sdescription, the context of the communication, and thelistener's view of the world, as well as the listener's ownabilities, especially in a task-oriented environment, allcontribute to make the reference task more complicated.Our work provides a new way to look at reference thatinvolves a more active, introspective approach to repair-ing communication.
It redefines the notion of finding areferent since previous paradigms have proven inappro-priate in the real world (see Section 4 for a detaileddiscussion).We introduce a new process to reference called negoti-ation that is used during the reference task to take intoaccount all the language and perceptual knowledgepeople have about the world, especially when referencefails.
We illustrate this process by introducing a newcomputational model for the reference process calledFWIM, for "Find What I Mean".
In addition, we developa theory of the use of extensional descriptions that willhelp explain how people successfully use imperfectdescriptions.
This theory is called the theory of exten-sional reference miscommunication.The last part of this section provides an introductionto the domain of our work and outlines the methodologyused.
We also present a description of other relevantresearch in this domain.
Section 2 of this paper brieflyhighlights some aspects of normal communication andthen provides a general discussion on the types ofmiscommunication that occur in conversation, concen-trating primarily on reference problems and motivatingmany of them with illustrative protocols.
The protocolsdemonstrate the complexity of the reference process andhelp illuminate the kinds of knowledge sources peopleconsult when performing reference.
Section 3 describesthose knowledge sources in more detail, providing infor-mation about the language and physical knowledge thatpeople use to perform reference identification and torecover from reference failure.
Section 4 presents initialsolutions to some of the problems of miscommunicationin reference.
Motivated there is a partial implementationof a reference mechanism that attempts to overcomemany reference problems.
Finally, we conclude inSection 5 with a summary and suggestions for futureresearch.1.1 THE DOMAIN AND METHODOLOGYWe are following the task-oriented paradigm of Grosz(1977) since?
it is easy to study (through videotapes),?
it places the world in front of you (a primarily exten-sional world), and?
it limits the discussion while still providing a rich envi-ronment for complex descriptions.The task chosen as the target for the system is the assem-bly of a toy water pump.
The water pump is reasonablycomplex, containing four subassemblies built from plastictubes, nozzles, valves, plungers, and caps that can bescrewed or pushed together.
A large corpus of dialoguesconcerning this task was collected by Cohen (see Cohen1981, 1984; Cohen, Fertig, and Starr 1982).
Thesedialogues contained instructions from an "expert" to an"apprentice" that explain the assembly of the toy waterpump.
Both participants were working to achieve acommon goal - the successful assembly of the pump.This domain is rich in perceptual information, allowingfor complex descriptions of its elements.
The dataprovide examples of imprecision, confusion, and ambigui-ty as well as attempts to correct hese problems.NozzleQc .3Plunger (bZae)clean~ l vz0sexlIrea) ~bZae)  elSpout ~' )(c6ear) Slide-Valve(rzd) Plug~ (rzd)-Base Valve (~ {~k)O-Ring 0 ( 6Zt~ck }Tube Base ~ (b~e)(~earbbJ.e)Figure I a.
The toy water pump.274 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification FailuresThe following exchange exemplifies one such situ-ation.
In it, E is instructing A to assemble part of thewater pump.
E and A are communicating verbally butneither can see the other.
(The bracketed text in theexcerpt tells what was actually occurring while eachutterance was spoken.)
Notice the complexity of thespeaker's descriptions and the resultant processingrequired by the listener.
This dialogue illustrates thatlisteners?
repair the speaker's description in order to find a refer-ent,?
repair their initial reference choice once they are givenmore information, and?
can fail to choose a proper referent.In Line 7, E describes the two holes on the BASEVALVEas "the little hole".
A must repair the description, realiz-ing that E doesn't really mean "one" hole but is referringto the "two" holes.
A apparently does this since hedoesn't complain about E's description and correctlyattaches the BASEVALVE to the TUBEBASE.Figure lb.
Configuration of the pump after theTUBEBASE is attached to the MAINTUBE (Line 10).In Line 13, A interprets "a red plastic piece" to referto the NOZZLE.
When E adds the relative clause "thathas four gizmos on it," A is forced to drop the NOZZLEas the referent and to select the SLIDEVALVE.
In Lines17 and 18, E's description "the other - the open part ofthe main tube, the lower valve" is ambiguous, and Aselects the wrong site, namely the TUBEBASE, in whichto insert the SLIDEVALVE.
Since the SLIDEVALVE fits,A doesn't detect any trouble.
Lines 20 and 21 keep Afrom thinking that something is wrong because the partfits loosely.
In Lines 27 and 28, A indicates that E hasnot given him enough information to perform therequested action.
In Line 30, A further compounds theerror in Line 18 by putting the SPOUT on theTUBEBASE.Excerpt 1 (Telephone)E: 1.
Now there's a blue cap\[A grabs the TUBEBASE\]2. that has two little teeth sticking3.
out of the bottom of it.A: 4.
Yeah.E: 5.
Okay.
On that take the6.
bright shocking pink piece of plastic\[A takes BASEVALVE\]7. and stick the little hole over the teeth.\[A starts to install the BASEVALVE,backs off, looks at it again andthen goes ahead and installs it\]A: 8.
Okay.E: 9.
Now screw that blue cap onto10.
the bottom of the main tube.\[A screws TUBEBASE ontoMAINTUBE\]A: 11.
Okay.E: 12.
Now, there's a -13. a red plastic piece\[A starts for NOZZLE\]14. that has four gizmos on it.\[A switches to SLIDEVALVE\]A: 15.
Yes.E: 16.
Okay.
Put the ungizmoed end in the uh17.
the other-the open18.
part of the main tube, the lower valve.\[A puts SLIDEVALVE into hole inTUBEBASE, but E meantOUTLET2 of MAINTUBE\]A: 19.
All right.E: 20.
It just fits loosely.
It doesn't21.
have to fit right.
Okay, then take22.
the clear plastic elbow joint.\[A takes SPOUT\]A: 23.
All right.E: 24.
And put it over the bottom opening, too.\[A tries installing SPOUT onTUBEBASE\]A: 25.
Okay.E: 26.
Okay.
Now, take the-A: 27.
Which end am I supposed to put it over?28.
Do you know?E: 29.
Put the-put the-the big end-30.
the big end over it.\[A pushes big end of SPOUT onTUBEBASE, twisting it to force iton\]The example illustrates the complexity of referenceindentification in a task-oriented omain.
It shows thatpeople do not always give up when a speaker'sdescription isn't perfect (or isn't readily assimilable forthem), but that they try to plow ahead anyway.
The restof this paper formalizes the kinds of problems that occurduring reference and then extends the reference para-digm to get around many of the problems.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 275Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failures1.2 RELATED WORK IN REFERENCE AND MISCOMMUNI-CATIONThere are two major pieces of work in AI literature thatlaid the foundation for our research: those in referenceand those in miscommunication.Cohen (1981, 1984) presents a detailed analysis ofthe pragmatics of reference and the effects of differentmodalities of communication.
His work was a majorstarting point of this research.
It showed that it wasreasonable to consider eference identification as sepa-rate from the whole process of language understandinginstead of being too intimately tangled to consider on itsown.
There is evidence presented by Cohen (1981,1984) that a speaker attempts as a separate step in hisoverall plan of communication to get a hearer to identifya referent.
He provided grounds for an IDENTIFY actionby illustrating particular requests to identify from hiswater pump protocols.
For example, utterances like"'Notice the two side outlets on the tube end" or "'Findthe rubber ing shaped like an O" showed that the speak-er wanted the hearer to perform some kind of action.That action is the IDENTIFY act, which is to search theworld for a referent for the speaker's description (andthus identify it).
Cohen also showed that the hearer'sresponse to a request to identify provided furtherevidence.
He pointed out excerpts in the protocols wherehearers responded to a request o identify with a confir-mation that the identification had actually occurred (e.g.,"Got it.").
Cohen went on to show how reference fitsinto a plan-based theory of communication.The reference paradigm we followed was closest tothat developed by Grosz (1977).
Her basic referenceidentification paradigm was similar to that of manyothers in the past (e.g., Winograd 1971, Woods 1972):put the speaker's description into a searchable form (i.e.,parse and semantically interpret the speaker'sdescription) and then use that form as a pattern that canbe compared against objects (i.e., the possible referents)in the world.
A referent is found when a match occursbetween the pattern and one or more of the objects.
Thepattern and a target referent match each other if all theattributes pecified in the pattern exactly fit the corre-sponding attributes in the target.
There is variability ineach of the past reference schemes in what pattern isgenerated, how the world is represented, and how theactual search progresses, but the general scheme remain.sthe same.
Success in all cases occurs if and only if aperfect match exists between all the pattern's attributesand the corresponding attributes on a target.
Grosz'sreference mechanism departed from past works by intro-ducing the notion of focus.
Focus provides a better wayto resolve referents by constraining the search space.
Fordefinite noun phrases, the choice of possible referentcandidates i guided by the focus mechanism.
The infor-mation provided in the definite noun phrase itself (i.e., bythe head noun and modifiers) is used to distinguish thereferent from other objects in focus.
Grosz showed howboth the surrounding non-linguistic environment and theglobal context of preceding discourse are part of focusand how it is used to resolve definite noun phrases.Grosz (1977:161) also proposed the need for inexactmatching in the reference process should something owrong:The retrieval component can fail to find such a matcheven though for most people the noun phrase sufficesto identify an object .. .
.
Alternatively, more than oneobject may match, but the ambiguity may not matterfor the purposes of the utterance.
The problem ineither case is to determine the nature of the mismatchand whether it matters .
.
.
.
The focus mechanismprovides one crucial element for deciding about inex-act matches.
It separates those items that are in thefocus of attention from all other known items.
If anexact match cannot be found in focus, it is reasonableto ask if any of the items in focus come close tomatching the description of the noun phrase (thequestion of what is close is the other crucial element insuch decisions) and if so which is closest.Ringle and Bruce (1981) present a survey of numer-ous types of miscommunication in conversation.
Theypoint out problems across a wide spectrum of dialoguetypes and situations.
Two primary ways that conversationfail are described by them.
The first one, input failure,occurs when the listener is unable to form a complete orat least coherent interpretation for an utterance.
Inputfailure can occur due to such causes as misinterpretationof a single word, incorrect resolution of a referentialterm, and misplacement of a negation.
Such failurescause the listener to misunderstand without weakeningthe listener's comprehension f the overall context of thecommunication (making the failures local in nature).
Thesecond way that Ringle and Bruce say that people fail,model failure, happens when the listener cannot incorpo-rate the inputs into a coherent belief model as intendedby the speaker.
The problem could be due to an inputfailure when information is lost that is needed to assim-ilate the speaker's utterances into the belief model.
It canalso occur when a listener does not have sufficient back-ground knowledge, has a different thematic emphasisthan the speaker, or fails to make the proper inference(or any at all) from the speaker's input.
Ringle and Brucedescribe repair techniques that often occur between thelistener and speaker when a failure occurs.
Such repairsare usuany initiated by the listener providing a failure cue(e.g., recapitulating the speaker's important points) to thespeaker to indicate possible trouble.
The repairs primarilyrequire action by both the listener and the speaker.Sometimes the dialogue situation affects the ability of thelistener to provide such cues.
For example, in a teacher-student relationship, it is hard for the student o interruptthe teacher's lecture/conversation t  initiate a repair dueto a mistake the student feels has occurred.
In otherconversational settings, such interruptions are easier.McCoy (1985a, 1985b) focuses on a particular classof communication problems.
She considers miscon-ceptions about the objects modelled by a system in its276 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failuresknowledge base.
She is concerned with discrepanciesbetween the beliefs of the system and that of the user asseen in a system/user dialogue.
Her work concentrateson two kinds of misconceptions about the properties ofan object: misclassification and misattribution.Misclassification occurs when one classifies an objectincorrectly.
For example, a person may think that whalesare fish when in fact they are mammals (McCoy1985b:17).
McCoy called the way to correct this prob-lem the like-super strategy since an expert may believethat the user misclassified the misconception object(whale) because it is similar to the posited superordinate(fish).
She defines two other kinds of misclassificationsthat her system can detect: Like-Some-Super andNo-Support.
Like-Some-Super occurs when the expertbelieves a user wrongly classified an object because it islike some subclass of the posited superordinate.
Forexample, a whale may be viewed by someone as a fishbecause they think that a whale is like a shark, and ashark is a fish (McCoy 1985b:24).
No-Support occurswhen the system can find no support in the user modelfor the misclassification.
McCoy' s system simply deniesthe incorrect information in that case and provides thecorrect information.Misattribution is the second class of misconceptionswith which McCoy deals.
They occur when the userwrongly attributes a property to an object that the objectdoesn't have.
One reason that misattribution can occur isthat the user either has confused the object with one theuser thinks is a similar object or has made a bad analogyfrom a similar object (the "Wrong Object" strategy).McCoy presents an example where the user attributes the"high liquidity" property of a money market fund to amoney market certificate.
Another reason that misattri-bution can occur is that the user attributes to an object arelated property instead of the actual one (the "WrongAttribute" strategy).
An example that McCoy presentsfor this strategy occurs when the user talked about the"interest" on the stock but really meant the "dividend.
"The correction in that case is the substitution of theproper property for the incorrect one.
The last case ofmisattribution that McCoy considers is No-Support.
Itoccurs when the expert can find no support for the misat-tribution in his model of the user.
In that case, McCoy'ssystem denies the incorrect information and asserts thecorrect information.McCoy's work demonstrates the power of represent-ing objects using a taxonomic knowledge base that indi-cates an object's superordinates and subtypes, and itsattributes and their values.
That paradigm allows her tonotice several classes of user's misconceptions and tocorrect them.
Her solutions blend in nicely with therelaxation mechanism motivated and described in thispaper.2 MISCOMMUNICATIONPeople must and do manage to resolve lots of (potential)miscommunication in everyday conversation.
Much of itseems to be resolved subconsciously - with the listenerunconcerned that anything is wrong.
Other miscommuni-cation is resolved with the listener actively deleting orreplacing information in the speaker's utterance until itfits the current context.
Sometimes this resolution is post-poned until the questionable part of the utterance is actu-ally needed.
Still, when all these fail, the listener can askthe speaker to clarify what was said.
3In this section we present evidence that people domiscommunicate and yet they often manage to repairreference failures.
We look at specific forms of miscom-munication and describe ways to detect them.
We high-light relationships between different miscommunicationproblems and demonstrate ways for resolving some ofthem.
The different kinds of miscommunication we pres-ent directly motivate the need by listeners for many ofthe types of knowledge we describe in Section 3.2.1 CAUSES OF MISCOMMUNICATIONThis section motivates a paradigm for the kinds ofconversation' that we studied and points out places in theparadigm that leave room for miscommunication.EFFECTS OF THE STRUCTURE OF TASK-ORIENTEDDIALOGUESTask-oriented conversations have a specific goal to beachieved: the performance of a task (e.g., the aircompressor assembly in Grosz (1977)).
The participantsin the dialogue can have the same skill level and they canwork together to accomplish the task; or one of them, theexpert, could know more and could direct the other, theapprentice, to perform the task.
We have concentratedprimarily on the latter case - due to the protocols that weexamined - but many of our observations can be general-ized to the former case.The viewpoints of the expert and apprentice differgreatly in apprentice-expert exchanges.
The expert,having an understanding of the functionality of theelements in the task, has more of a feel for how theelements work together, how they go together, and howthe individual elements can be used.
The apprenticenormally has no such" knowledge and must base his deci-sions on perceptual features uch as shape (Grosz 1981).These differences can lead to problems.The structure of the task affects the structure of thedialogue (Grosz 1977), particularly through the center ofattention of the expert and apprentice during the accom-plishment of each step of the task.
The common center ofattention of the dialogue participants i  called the focus(Grosz 1977, Reichman 1978, Sidner 1979).
Shifts infocus correspond to shifts between the tasks andsubtasks; e.g., the objects in a task and the subpieces ofeach object.
Focus and focus shifts are governed bymany rules (Grosz 1977, Reichman 1978, Sidner 1979).Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 277Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification FailuresConfusion may result when expected shifts do not takeplace.
For example, if the expert changes focus to someobject but never bothers to talk about the object reason-ably soon after its introduction (i.e., between the time ofits introduction and its use, without digressing in a well-structured way in between (see Reichman 1978)), ornever discusses its subpieces (such as an obvious attach-ment surface), then the apprentice may becomeconfused, leaving him likely to misunderstand furtherutterances.
The reverse influence between focus andobjects can lead to trouble, too.
A shift in focus by theexpert that does not have a manifestation i the appren-tice's world will also perplex the apprentice.Focus also influences how descriptions are formed(Grosz 1981, Appelt 1981).
The level of detail requiredin a description depends directly on the elements current-ly in focus.
If the object to be described is similar toother elements in focus, the expert must be more specificin the formulation of the description or may considershifting focus away from the confusing objects.2.2 INSTANCES OF MISCOMMUNICATIONFigure 2 outlines some of the ways people get confusedduring a conversation.
These instances were derived fromanalyzing the water pump protocols.
We only discussreferent confusion in this paper.
The other forms ofconfusion - Action, Goal, and Cognitive Load - aredescribed in Goodman (1982, 1984).
The confusionsthemselves, coupled with the description at the end ofthis section on how to recognize when one of them isoccurring and the knowledge people use to performreference described in Section 3, provide motivation forthe use of the algorithm outlined in Section 4 as a meansfor repairing communication problems.We illustrate here many of the confusions in thetaxonomy through numerous excerpts.
Each excerpt hasmarked in parentheses the modality of communicationthat was used in the excerpt (face-to-face, over the tele-phone, and so forth).
A description about the collectionof these excerpts can be found in Cohen (1984).
Eachbracketed portion of the excerpt explains what wasoccurring at that point in the dialogue.ERRONEOUS SPECIFICITYA speaker can be over- or underspecific in hisdescriptions (which violates Grice's (1975) maxim ofquantity).
Such descriptions are a form of erroneousspecificity that can lead to mistakes on the part of thelistener even though, technically, nothing is wrong withthe description.A request is overspecific if extra details are given thatseem obvious to the listener (Grosz 1978).
Since thelistener would not expect he speaker to provide him withobvious details, the listener might become confused;thinking that he had done something incorrectly as thetask seemed easier than the one apparently described bythe speaker.
4 For example, in Excerpt 2, E's descriptionof the bubbled piece (i.e., the AIRCHAMBER) is overspe-cific because it supplies many more features than neededto identify the piece.
The extra description in Lines 15 to17 confused the listener, who appeared to have correctlyidentified the piece by Line 13 but ended up taking thewrong one when the expert kept adding more details.
SeeExcerpt 10 in the section on bad analogies for otherrelated examples of overspecificity.Excerpt 2 (Telephone)E: 1.
Okay?2.
Now you have two devices that3.
are clear plastic.\[A picks up MAINTUBE and SPOUT\]A: 4.
Okay.E: 5.
One of them has two openings6.
on the outside with threads onReferent Confusion Action Confusion Goal Confusion Cognitive Load ConfusionI ' ' ' "4 Y ' ' " .~ .m~ci .
t i c i ty  Redand~ncy  Spcc i .~ ic i tyFigure 2.
A taxonomy of confusions.278 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failures7.
the end, and its about five8.
inches long.\[A rotates MAINTUBE confirming E'sdescription\]9.
Do you see that?A: 10.
Yeah.E: 11.
Okay,12.
the other one is a bubbled13.
piece with a blue base on it14.
with one spout.\[A looks at AIRCHAMBER\]15.
Do you see it?16.
About two inches long.\[A picks up STAND and dropsMAINTUBE\]17.
Both of these are tubular.\[A puts down SPOUT\]A: 18.
Okay.19.
not the bent one.Ambiguous descriptions are underspecified and cancause confusion about the referent.
Excerpt 3 belowillustrates a case where the speak'er's description isunderspecified - it does not provide enough detail toprune the set of possible referents to one.Excerpt 3 (Face-to-Face)E: 1.
And now take the little red2.
peg,\[A takes PLUG\]3.
Yes,4.
and place it in the hole at the5.
green end,\[A starts to put PLUG into OUTLET2of MAINTUBE\]6. no7.
the-in the green thing\[A puts PLUG into green part ofPLUNGER\]A: 8.
Okay.In Line 4 and 5, E describes the location to place apeg into a hole by giving spatial information.
Since thelocation is given relative to another location by "in thehole at the green end," it defines a region where the pegmight go instead of a specific location.
In this particularcase, there are three possible holes to choose from thatare near the green end.
The listener chooses one - thewrong one - and inserts the peg into it.
Because thisdialogue took place face to face, E is able to correct heambiguity in Lines 6 and 7.An underspecified escription can be imprecise inmany possible ways.?
A description may consist of features that do not readi-ly apply or that are inappropriate in the domain.
InLine 3, Excerpt 4, the feature "funny" has no meaningto the listener here.
It is not until E provides a fullerdescription in Lines 5 to 8 that A is able to select theproper piece.?
It may use imprecise feature values.
For example, onecould use an imprecise head noun coupled with few orno feature values (and context alone does not neces-sarily suffice to distinguish the object).
In Excerpt 5,Lines 8 and 9, "attachment" is imprecise because allobjects in the domain are attachable parts.
The expert'suse of "attachment" was most likely to signal theaction the apprentice can expect o take next.
The useof the feature value "clear" provides little benefiteither because three clear, unused parts exist.
The sizedescriptor "little" prunes this set of possible referentsto two contenders.Another use of imprecise feature values occurs whenenough feature values are provided but at least one valueis too imprecise.
In Excerpt 6, Line 3, the use of the attri-bute value "rounded" to describe the shape does notsufficiently reduce the set of four possible referents(though, in this particular instance, A correctly identifiesit) because the term is applicable to numerous parts inthe domain.
5 A more precise shape descriptor such as"bell-shaped" or "cylindrical" would have been morebeneficial to the listener.Excerpt 4 (Telephone)E: 1.
All right.2.
Now.3.
There's another funny little4.
red thing, a\[A is confused, examines bothNOZZLE and SLIDEVALVE\]5. little teeny red thing that's6.
some-should be somewhere on7.
the desk, that has um-there's8.
like teeth on one end.\[A takes SLIDEVALVE\]A: 9.
Okay.E: 10.
It's a funny-loo-hollow,11.
hollow projection on one end12.
and then teeth on the other.Excerpt 5 (Teletype)E: 1. take the red thing with the2.
prongs on it3.
and fit it onto the other hole4.
of the cylinder5.
so that the prongs are6.
sticking outA: 7. okE: 8. now take the clear little9.
attachment10.
and put on the hole where you11.
just put the red cap on12.
make sure it pointsComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 279Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failures13.
upwardA: 14. okExcerpt 6 (Teletype)E: 1.
Ok,2.
put the red nozzle on the outlet3.
of the rounded clear chamber4.
ok?A: 5. got it.IMPROPER FOCUSEarlier we talked about focus and problems that occurdue to it.
In this section, we discuss how misfocus cancause misreference.
Focus confusion can occur when thespeaker sets up one focus and then proceeds with anoth-er one without letting the listener know of the switch(i.e., a focus shift occurs without any indication).
Theopposite phenomenon can also happen - the listener mayfeel that a focus shift has taken place when the speakeractually never intended one.
These really are very similar- one is viewed more strongly from the perspective of thespeaker and the other from that of the listener.Excerpt 7 illustrates an instance of the first type offocus confusion.
In the excerpt, the speaker (E) shiftsfocus without notifying the listener (A) of the switch.
Asthe excerpt begins, A is holding the TUBEBASE.
Eprovides in Lines 1 to 16 instructions for A to attach theCAP and the SPOUT to OUTLET1 and OUTLET2, respec-tively, on the MAINTUBE.
Upon A's successfulcompletion of these attachments, E switches focus inLines 17 to 20 to the TUBEBASE assembly and requestsA to screw it on to the bottom of the MAINTUBE.
WhileA completes the task, E realizes (Line 22) she left out astep in the assembly - the placement of theSLIDEVALVE into OUTLET2 of the MAINTUBE beforethe SPOUT is placed over the same outlet.
E attempts tocorrect her mistake by requesting (Line 23) A to remove"the plas ''6 piece.
Since E never indicated a shift in focusfrom the TUBEBASE back to the SPOUT, A interprets"the plas" to refer to the TUBEBASE.Excerpt 7 (Face-to-Face)E: 1.
And place2.
the blue cap that's left\[A takes CAP\]3. on the side holes that are4.
on the cylinder,\[A lays down TUBEBASE\]5. the side hole that is farthest6.
from the green end.\[A puts CAP on OUTLET1 ofMAINTUBE\]A: 7.
Okay.E: 8.
And take the nozzle-looking9.
piece,\[A grabs NOZZLE\]10. noA:E:11.
I mean the clear plastic one,\[A takes SPOUT\]12. and place it on the other hole\[A identifies OUTLET2 ofMAINTUBE\]13. that's left,14.
so that nozzle points away15.
from the\[A installs SPOUT on OUTLET2 ofMAINTUBE\]16. right.17.
Okay.18.
Now19.
take the20.
cap base thing\[A takes TUBEBASE\]21. and screw it onto the bottom,\[A screws TUBEBASE onMAINTUBE\]22. ooops,\[E realizes he has forgotten to haveA put SLIDEVALVE intoOUTLET2 of MAINTUBE\]23. un-undo the plas\[A starts to take TUBEBASE offMAINTUBE\]24. no25.
the clear plastic thing that I26.
told you to put on\[A removes SPOUT\]27. sorry.28.
And place the little red thing\[A takes SLIDEVALVE\]29. in there first,\[A inserts SLIDEVALVE intoOUTLET2 of MAINTUBE\]30. it fits loosely in there.Excerpt 8 demonstrates the latter type of focusconfusion that occurs when the speaker (E) sets up onefocus - the MAINTUBE, which is the correct focus in thiscase - but then proceeds in such a manner that the listen-er (A) thinks a focus shift to another piece, theTUBEBASE, has occurred.
Thus, Line 15, "a bottomhole," refers to "the lower side hole in the MAINTUBE"for E and "the hole in the TUBEBASE" for A.
A has noway of realizing that he has focused incorrectly unlessthe description as he interprets it doesn't have a realworld correlate (here something does satisfy thedescription so A doesn't sense any problem) or if, later inthe exchange, a conflict arises due to the mistake (e.g., arequested action can not be performed).
In Line 31, Ainserts a piece into the wrong hole because of the misun-derstanding in Line 15.
Line 31 hints that A may havebecome suspicious that an ambiguity existed somewhere280 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failuresin the previous conversation, but since the task appearedto be successfully completed (i.e., the red piece fit intothe hole in the base), and since E did not provide anyclarification, he assumed he was correct.Excerpt 8 (Telephone)E: 1.
Umnow.2.
Now we're getting a little3.
more difficult.A: 4.
(laughs)E: 5.
Pick out the large air tube\[A picks up STAND\]6. that has the plunger in it.\[A puts down STAND, takesPLUNGER/MAINTUBE assembly\]A: 7.
Okay.E: 8.
And set it on its base,\[A puts down MAINTUBE, standingvertically, on the TABLE\]9. which is blue now,10.
right?\[A has shifted focus to theTUBEBASE\]A: 11.
Yeah.E: 12.
Base is blue.13.
Okay,14.
Now15.
You've got a bottom hole still16.
to be filled,17.
correct?A: 18.
Yeah.E: 19.
Okay.A: 22.E: 23.24.25.26.A: 27.E: 28.29.\[A answers this with MAINTUBE stillsitting on theTABLE; he shows noindication of what hole he thinks ismeant - the one on theMAINTUBE, OUTLET2, or the onein the TUBEBASE\]20.
You have one21.
remaining?\[Ared piecepicks up MAINTUBE assembly andlooks at TUBEBASE, rotating theMAINTUBE so that TUBEBASE ispointed up, and sees the hole in it;he then looks at the SLIDEVALVE\]Yeah.Okay.Take that red piece.\[A takes SLIDEVALVE\]It's got four little feet onit?Yeah.And put the small end intothat hole on the air tube-30.
on the big tube.A: 31.
On the very bottom?\[A starts to put it into the bottomhole of TUBEBASE - though heindicates he is unsure of himself\]E: 32.
On the bottom,33.
Yes.Misfocus can also occur when the speaker inadvert-ently fails to distinguish the proper focus because he didnot notice a possible ambiguity; or when, through nofault of the speaker, the listener just fails to recognize aswitch in focus indicated by the speaker.
Excerpt 8 is anexample of the first type because E failed to notice thatan ambiguity existed since he never explicitly brought heTUBEBASE either into or out of focus.
He just assumedthat A had the same perspective as he had - a perspec-tive in which no ambiguity occurred.WRONG CONTEXTContext differs from focus.
The context of a portion of aconversation is concerned with the intention of thediscussion in that fragment and with the set of objectsrelevant to that discussion, though not attended tocurrently.
Focus pertains to the elements currently beingattended to in the context.
For example, two people canshare the same context but have different focus assign-ments within it - we're both talking about the waterpump, but you're describing the MAINTUBE and I 'mdescribing the AIRCHAMBER.
Alternatively, we couldjust be using different contexts - I think you're talkingabout taking the pump apart, but you're talking aboutreplacing the pump with new parts - in both cases wemay be sharing the same focus - the pump - but ourcontexts are totally off from one another.
7 The kinds ofmisunderstandings that can occur because of contextinconsistencies are similar to those for focus problems:?
the speaker might set up or use one context for adiscussion and then proceed in another one withouteffectively letting the listener know of the change,?
the listener may feel a change in context has takenplace when in fact the speaker never intended one, or?
the listener fails to recognize an indicated contextswitch by the speaker.Context affects reference identification because it helpsdefine the set of available objects that are possiblecontenders for the referent of the speaker's descriptions.If the contexts of the speaker and listener differ, thenmisreference might result.BAD ANALOGYAn analogy (see Gentner 1980) for a discussion on anal-ogies) is a useful way to help describe an object byattempting to be more  precise by using shared past expe-rience and knowledge - especially shape and functionalinformation.
If that past experience or knowledge doesn'tcontain the information the speaker assumes it does, thentrouble occurs.
Thus, one more way referent confusionComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 281?
Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failurescan occur is by describing an object using a poor analo-gY.An analogy can be improper for several reasons.
Itmight not be specific enough - confusing the listenerbecause several potential referents might conform to theanalogy.
Alternatively, the analogy might fail becausediscovering a mapping between the analogous object andsomething in the environment is too difficult.
In Excerpt9, A at first has trouble correctly satisfying E's functionalanalogy "stopper" in "the big blue stopper," but finallyselects what he considers to be the closest match to"stopper."
The problem for A was that E's functionalanalogy was not specific enough.
It would have beenbetter to use cap instead of stopper.Excerpt 9 (Telephone)E: 1.
Okay.
Now,2.
take the big blue3.
stopper that's laying around\[A grabs AIRCHAMBER\]4 .
.
.
.
and take the black5.
ring-A: 6.
The big blue stopper?\[A is confused and tries to communi-cate it to E; he is holding theAIRCHAMBER here\]E: 7.
Yeah,8.
the big blue stopper9.
and the black ring.\[E drops AIRCHAMBER and takesthe O-RING and the TUBEBASE\]In other cases the analogy might be too specific -confusing the 'listener because none of the availablereferents appear to fit it.
In Line 8 of Excerpt 7, "nozzle-looking" forms a poor shape analogy because the objectbeing referred to actually is an elbow-shaped spout andnot a nozzle.
The "nozzle-looking" part of thedescription convinced the listener that what he was look-ing for was something identified by the typical propertiesof a nozzle (which is a small tube used as an outlet).However, sometimes when an object is a clear represen-tative of a specified analogy class, the apprentice will nottend to select it as the intended referent.
He wouldassume tfiat, to refer to that object, the expert would notbother to form an analogy instead of just directlydescribing the object as a member of the class.
Hence,the apprentice may very well ignore the best represen-tative of the class for some less obvious exemplar.
Giventhe case just mentioned, it is therefore better to saynozzle instead of nozzle-looking.
In Excerpt 10, thedescription "hippopotamus face shape" (a shape analo-gy) in Lines 2 and 3, and "champagne top" (a shapeanalogy) in Line 9, are too specific and the listener isunable to easily find something close enough to matcheither of them.
He can't discover a mapping between theobject in the analogy and one in the real world (adiscussion on discovering such mappings can be found inGentner (1980)).
In fact, when this excerpt was playedback to one listener, he was so overwhelmed by E'sdescriptions that he exclaimed "What!"
when he heardthem and was unable to correctly proceed.Excerpt 10 (Audiotape)E: 1. take the bright pink flat2.
piece of hippopotamus face3.
shape piece of plastic4.
and you notice that the two5.
holes on it\[E is trying to refer to BASEVALVE\]6. match7.
along with the two8.
peg holes on the9.
champagne top sort of10.
looking bottom that had11.
threads oni t\[E is trying to refer to TUBEBASE\]2.3 DETECTING REFERENCE MISCOMMUNICATIONThe previous section illustrated some of the ways refer-ence miscommunication occurs.
Part of our research,however, has been to examine how a listener discoversthe need for a repair of a description during communi-cation.
The incompatibility of a description or action withthe scene is the strongest signal of possible trouble.DESCRIPTION INCOMPATIBILITYThe strongest hint that there is a description incompat-ibility occurs when the listener finds no real world objectto correspond to the speaker's description (i.e., referentidentification fails).
This can occur when the descriptiondoes not agree with the current state of the world:?
when one or more of the specified feature values in thedescription are not satisfied by any of the pieces (e.g.,saying "the orange cap" when none of the objects areorange );?
when one or more specified constraints do not hold(e.g., saying "the red plug that fits loosely '' when all thered plugs attach tightly); or?
if no one object satisfies all of the features pecified inthe description (i.e., there is, for each feature, anobject that exhibits the specified feature value, but noone object exhibits all of the values).
In Lines 7 and 8of Excerpt 10 above, E's description of "the two pegholes" leads to bewilderment for the listener becausethe "champagne top sort of looking bottom that hadthreads on it" (i.e., the TUBEBASE) has no holes in it.E actually meant "two pegs".An impossible reference might not only suggest a mistakein the speaker's description but it could instead indicatean earlier action error (e.g., two parts were put togetherimproperly or never had been intended to be assembledtogether).With respect to actual reference mechanisms,description incompatibility means that a referent could282 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failuresnot be found.
The reference mechanism was not able tofind a match between its representation f the speaker'sdescription and the representations of the objects in theworld (i.e., the possible referents).
Section 4.2.1 providesdetails on how our reference mechanism attempts uch amatch.ACTION INCOMPATIBILITYAn action incompatibility problem is likely if?
the listener cannot perform the action specified by thespeaker because of some obstacle;?
the listener performs the action but does not arrive atits intended effect (i.e., a specified or default constraintisn't satisfied); or?
the current action affects a previous action in anadverse way, 3,et the speaker has given no sign of anyimportance to this side-effect.Such action incompatibility might indicate an earliermisreference (e.g., the wrong part was chosen and usedin an earlier action).The detection of most misreferences i n't so hard -the difficult part is determining why there is a problem sothat the problem can be repaired.
The problem could beone of the many illustrated in this section.
The know-ledge sources described in the next section help provide abetter handle for determining the problem with thespeaker's description.3 KNOWLEDGE FOR REFERENCEThis section describes the language and physical know-ledge that people use to perform reference identificationand to recover from reference failure.
The classificationof knowledge sources and the observations on how toperform reference and to recover from reference failureswere motivated from the analysis of the excerpts in theprevious section.
Those observations have been formal-ized as a set of metarules (which we call relaxation rules)that are used both to guide the reference process and todetermine when to delete or modify portions of a speak-er's description.
Section 4 presents those rules in thecontext of the reference and miscommunication recoverymechanism.
We feel that the knowledge sources moti-vated in this section carry across different people anddomains.
However, we recognize that the particularsdescribed within each knowledge source are not universaland can vary across people and domains.
For example,we would expect a difference in the knowledge used bytwo experts communicating asopposed to that employedby a novice and an expert.3.1 KNOWLEDGE FOR REPAIRING DESCRIPTIONSWhen things go wrong during a conversation, peoplehave many sources of knowledge that they bring to bearto get around the problem (e.g., see Ringle and Bruce1981).
Much of the time the repairs are so natural thatwe aren't conscious that they have taken place.
At othertimes, we must make an effort to correct what we haveheard, or determine that we need clarification from thespeaker.
Either repair process involves the use of know-ledge about conversation, social conventions, and theworld around us.In this work, we chose to consider the repair ofdescriptions rather than complete utterances.
The mostrelevant knowledge for repairing descriptions is theconversation itself and the real world described therein(as illustrated by the excerpts in Section 2.2).
This know-ledge can be broken down into numerous forms.?
Linguistic knowledge is the knowledge that expressesthe use of the structure and meaning of a description.?
Perceptual knowledge is composed of information abouta person's abilities to distinguish feature values, hispreferences in features and feature values (i.e., whatfeatures are most important to him in this domain), andhis extraction of information from the internal repre-sentation of his perception of an object.?
Discourse knowledge is concerned with how a personinterprets the flow of conversation and its effects onhighlighting relevant parts of the world.?
Hierarchical knowledge is concerned with the use ofknowledge about generality and specificity ofdescriptions to decide if a description is either toovague or overly specific.?
Trial and error knowledge is information gained when alistener attempts a requested action on requestedobjects and then compares the result of the action withhis expectations.Other knowledge sources will not be covered here.
Forexample, Pragmatic knowledge about mutual belief andactions (Cohen 1978, Allen 1979, Perrault and Cohen1981, Appelt 1981) is missing because we restricted ourwork to noun phrases instead of complete utterances.Domain knowledge (including functional information)isn't covered because it is treated well elsewhere.
(Grosz1977).These knowledge sources can be used to guide therepair of the speaker's description when no referent isfound.
They are part of a "relaxation" process.
Relaxa-tion would typically mean in the reference identificationparadigm that the system drops features in the speaker'sdescription one at a time until a referent is found or noneare left.
We have something different in mind.
First,relaxation means more than simply dropping a featurevalue.
It also means replacing the feature value withanother one the knowledge sources consider easonable.Second, we want an order to be chosen to drop thefeatures.
The interesting part is that this ordering comesfrom a negotiation among the knowledge sources.
Theactual negotiation, which is a control problem, isdiscussed in Section 4.3.1.1 LINGUISTIC KNOWLEDGE IN REFERENCESpeakers can utilize many different kinds of linguisticstructures to describe objects in the extensional world.This section outlines some of these structures and theirComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 283Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failuresmeanings and shows how they can be used to guiderepairs in the description.A description of an object in the extensional worldusually includes enough information about physicalfeatures of the object so that listeners can use theirperceptual bilities to identify the object.
8Those physicalfeatures are normally specified as modifiers of nouns andpronouns.
The typical modifiers are adjectives, relativeclauses, and prepositional phrases.
They are often inter-changeable; that is, one could specify a feature using anyof the modifier forms.
One modifier form, however, maybe better suited for expressing some particular featurethan another.Relative clauses are well suited for expressing compli-cated information since they are separate from the mainpart of the noun phrase and can be arbitrarily complexthemselves.
They can restrict the word or phrase theymodify.
They function in the following ways in exten-sional reference:?
Complex relationships uch as spatial relations (e.g.,the blue cap that is on the main tube), and functioninformation (e.g., the thing with the wire that acts like aplunger).?
Assertions of extra (usually restrictive) information,information possibly outside the domain knowledgeand not useful for finding the referent at this time (e.g.,an L-shaped tube of clear plastic that is defined as aspout).?
Material useful for confirming that the proper referentwas found (e.g., the long blue tube that has two outletson the side).?
A respecification of the initial description in moredetail.
For example, in the case of the descriptions thething that is flared at the top and the main tube which isthe biggest ube, the relative clauses are needed becausethe initial descriptions are too general to distinguishany one object.Prepositional phrases are better fitted for simpler piec-es of information.
They are often part of expressions ofpredicative relationships.?
A comparative or superlative relation (e.g., the smallestof the red pieces).?
A subpart specification - used to access the subpart ofthe object under consideration (e.g., the top end o~ thelittle elbow joint, that water chamber with the bluebottom and the globe top).?
Most perceptual features (e.g., with a clear tint, with ared color).Just like relative clauses, prepositional phrases can alsoprovide confirmation i formation.Adjectives are used to express almost any perceptualfeature - though complex relations can be awkward.Usually they modify the noun phrase directly, but some-times they are expressed as a predicate complement.
Inthose situations, the complement describes the subject ofthe linking verb (e.g., the tube is large).
As with some ofthe relative clauses above, predicate complements havean assertional nature to them because they are normallyused to state something about the subject of a sentence.Sometimes the head noun carries feature information.For example, one can use the bell to refer to a bell-shaped object (though it does not necessarily have thefunction of a bell), or can say the cube instead of sayingthe block to refer to an object.It is implicitly clear that the structure of a noun phrasecan affect its meaning in many ways (such as the onesmentioned above under relative clauses).
Since there isno one-to-one mapping between a noun phrase's truc-ture and its meaning, it is the hearer's job to determinehow the structural information is being used.3.1.2 RELAXING A DESCRIPTION USINGLINGUISTIC KNOWLEDGEWe examined the water pump protocols and noted whereand when the modifiers of a noun phrase come into playduring reference resolution (e.g., we saw that peoplewould often commence their search for a referent imme-diately, using each piece of the description as it is heard).Adjectives and prepositional phrases play a more centralrole during referent identification, because they are heardfirst, while relative clauses usually play a secondary role,because they normally come at the end of a description,often after a pause.
However, relative clauses and predi-cate complements exhibit an assertional nature that,while reducing their usefulness for resolving the currentreference, provides useful information that can beexpressed in subsequent (anaphoric) references.
Forexample, a speaker can describe the MAINTUBE bysaying the long violet tube that has two outlets on the sideversus the shorter the long violet tube with two outlets onthe side.
Our claim is that the speaker would use the rela--tive clause version to emphasize the information in therelative clause.
Thus, relative clauses promote theircontents (especially linguistically since they provide sepa-ration from the main clause) to an almost independentstatus.
We feel this independent status stresses that thespeaker took care in formulating the relative clause andthat the information it conveys is less likely to be in errorthen if it had been expressed in a prepositional phrase oras an adjective; the water pump protocols tend to backup this claim (e.g., listeners would often use the informa-tion in a relative clause to confirm that their referentchoice was correct).
The head noun of the descriptioncan also be relaxed.
It normally is relaxed last but couldbe relaxed prior to a relative clause (especially in theinstances where the relative clause expresses confirma-tional information).
Hence, our relaxation processattempts to weaken or remove features in a description inthis order: adjectives, then prepositional phrases andfinaIly relative clauses and predicate complements.For example, consider the description the blue cap thatis on the main tube.
Here, the features "color" and"function" are described in the adjective and head nounof the description, and the "position" in the relativeclause.
Following the rule suggested above, the relaxation284 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failuresof function and color should be attempted before posi-tion.
The relaxation order proposed here is not meant tobe the only way to relax the description.
The order, infact, may be modified by other knowledge sources.There are many other kinds of linguistic constituentsthat can be examined to see if there are principled waysto relax them, too.
These include premodifier and post-modifier forms, nominals, participles, and genitives.While we didn't consider any of them in detail, there isno reason why they should not fit into the relaxationframework.3.1.3 PERCEPTUAL KNOWLEDGE IN REFERENCEOur system must take into account how people perceiveobjects in the world and how their perceptions can berepresented.
To do so, each object in the world has tworepresentations in our system: a spatial (3-D) represen-tation and a cognitive/linguistic representation thatshows how the system could actually talk about theobject.
The spatial description is a physical description ofthe object in terms of its dimensions, the basic 3-Dshapes composing it, and its physical features (along thelines developed in Agin (1979) and Goodman (1981)).
Itrepresents the result of human perceptual skill.
Thecognitive/linguistic form is a representation of the partsand features of the object in linguistic terms.
In manyways this representation encodes the human capacity toextract information from our perceptual system and turnphysical representations into words.
It overlaps thespatial form - which holds relatively constant acrosspeople - in many respects, but it is more suggestive ofthe listener's own perceptions.
The cognitive/linguisticform often describes aspects of an object, such as itssubparts, by its position on the object ("top", "bottom")and its functionality ("outlets", "places for attachment").More than one cognitive/linguistic form can refer to thesame physical description.
Some properties of an objectdiffer in how they are expressed in the two forms.
In the3-D form, there are primarily properties uch as numer-ical dimensions (e.g., 3 feet by 5 feet) and basic shapes(e.g., generalized cylinders), while, in the cognitive/lin-guistic form, there are relative dimensions (e.g., large)and analogical shapes (e.g., the L-shaped tube or thechampagne top sort of looking bottom).Perceived objects, when spoken about, .must be inter-preted.
This can lead to discrepancies between individ-uals.
People usually agree on the spatial representationbut not necessarily on the cognitive/linguisticdescription.
This disagreement can lead to referenceproblems.
For example, misjudgements by the speaker incalling an object "large" can cause the hearer to fail tofind an object in the visual world that has dimensionsthat are perceptually "large" to the listener.To avoid confusing the listener, a speaker must distin-guish the objects in the environment from each otherusing perceptually useful features because these percep-tual features provide people with a way to discriminateone object from another.
A speaker must take care whenselecting from these features ince the hearer can becomeconfused about the values of a feature irrespective of theactual object being d~scribed.
Perceptual features maybe inherently confusing because a feature's values aredifficult to differentiate (e.g., is the tube a cylinder or aslightly tapering cone?).
They may also be confusingbecause the speaker and listener may have differing setsof values for a feature (e.g., what may be blue for some-one may be turquoise for another).
These characteristicsaffect the salience of a feature (see McDonald andConklin (1982) for a description of feature salience)which in turn determines the feature's usefulness in adescription.
A feature that is common in everyday usage(e.g., color, shape, or size) is salient because the listenerassumes that he can readily distinguish the feature'spossible values from one another.
Of course, very unusu-al values of a feature can stand out, making it even easierto discriminate a unique object from all other objects(McDonald and Conklin 1982).The objects in the world may exhibit a feature whosepossible values are difficult to distinguish.
This occurswhen a perceived feature does not have much variabilityin its range of values: all or subsets of the values are clus-tered closely together making it hard to tell the differencebetween one value and the next.
9 This increases the like-lihood of confusion because the usefulness of specifyingthe feature to a non-expert is diminished (especially if thespeaker is more expert than the listener in distinguishingfeature values).
Hence, if one of these difficult featurevalues appears in the speaker's description, the listener, ifhe isn't an expert, will often relax the feature value toany of the members of the set of feature values.
Forexample, if the speaker knows many shades of the color"red" (such as scarlet, crimson, cherry, maroon, ormagenta), the average listener may not be able to distin-guish them from each other and may be just as happy topick up the maroon plug for the magenta plug.When the number of features available for describingan object is small, one could expect to have troublediscerning one object from the next depending on thequality of the features themselves.
If the environment isfull of objects whose perceived features (e.g., color, sizeor shape) are similar, one would expect more miscommu-nication the larger the similarities.
In those cases whereperceptual information can only group objects instead ofhighlighting a unique one, the members of the groupmight become distinguishable when functional informa-tion is added.
1?
In other words, one may only know aboutthe appearance of an object, but once one knows thefunction, the object and other potential contenders(might) become dissimilar (Grosz 1981).
Of course, poorfunctional descriptions, like the ones illustrated in Section2.2 for Bad Analogies, can lead to even more trouble.3.1.4 RELAXING A DESCRIPTION USINGPERCEPTUAL KNOWLEDGEWhen examining the features presented in  a speaker'sdescription, one can consider perceptual aspects to deter-Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 285Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failuresmine which features are most likely in error.
Such aninspection generates a partial ordering of features for useduring the repair process to determine which feature in adescription to relax.
The relaxation ordering suggested bythe inspection of features interacts with orderingproposals from other knowledge sources.Active features are ones that require a listener to domore than simply recognize that a particular featurevalue belongs to a set of possible values - the listenermust perform some kind of evaluation.
They include theuse of relative dimensions (e.g., large), comparatives(e.g., larger), or superlatives (e.g., largest).
When consid-ering the water pump domain, we found that listenerswere better at judging less active feature values (e.g.,color values).
Speakers, however, seem to be casual withless active features (possibly because they feel listenersare better with them) while the active ones require theirfull attention.
Hence, in a reference failure, the source ofthe problem is often the less active ones.
This suggeststhat one should first relax those features that require lessactive consideration such as color (though it is easier torelax red to orange than red to blue; we will ignore suchfacts until a later stage of the relaxation process), compo-sition, transparency, shape, and function because wewould expect a speaker to be more serious about his useof active features.
Only after them should one relax thosefeatures that require active consideration of the objectunder discussion and its surroundings (such as superla-tives, comparatives, and relative values of size, length,height, thickness, position, distance, and weight).The water pump dialogues provided some evidence forthis.
For example, many speakers described theMAINTUBE using a relative size adjective such as big orlarge.
One of the descriptions of the tube was the largeblue tube.
The MAINTUBE, which was the largest object,actually was violet but there was a smaller blue tube, theSTAND.
Subjects still tended to select the MAINTUBEover the STAND, even with the color discrepancy, hintingthat they preferred relaxing color (a less active feature)before relative size (an active feature).3.1.5 DISCOURSE KNOWLEDGE IN PREFERENCEDiscourse knowledge concerns discourse structure, theflow of discourse, and the use of discourse to highlightparts of the real world (see Grosz (1977), Reichman(1978, 1981), Sidner (1979), Allen, Frisch, and Litman(1982), Litman (1983), and Polanyi and Scha (1984~ fordetailed treatments on discourse).
There are severalmechanisms that can highlight objects in discourse (seework on focus by Grosz (1977), Reichman (1978) andSidner (1979)).
They provide a partition of the realworld that prunes the set of objects to consider duringreferent identification.
Discourse knowledge also helpshighlight what knowledge a speaker and listener have incommon at any point in a dialogue.
Conversants hareknowledge about past actions and objects and generalknowledge about the world (e.g., how to fit objectstogether or the functions of common objects).
Focusingcan demarcate which of several perspectives of worldknowledge conversants should be using to interpret eachother's utterances.
This simplifies the amount of informa-tion that must be packaged in each utterance, reducingplaces for error.
For example, deictics can be used toanchor descriptions to current or past context.
Thedescription the yellow polka-dotted motor equires a listen-er to look to see how the description hooks up to thecurrent discourse situation.
However, the description theyellow polka-dotted motor !
showed you yesterday isanchored by the deictic yesterday and is more easilysearchable.3.1.6 RELAXING A DESCRIPTION USINGDISCOURSE KNOWLEDGEDiscourse knowledge helps the listener determine wheth-er or not the problem is in the speaker's description orresides elsewhere.
When normal reference fails (i.e., noreferent corresponds to a description) and recovery isattempted, iscourse knowledge can be used to determinewhether the problem resides not in the description itselfbut possibly at the discourse level.
For example,midstream corrections in an utterance by a speaker couldcause a listener to either miss a shift in focus or to shiftfocus when no shift was intended.
This was exemplifiedin Excerpt 7 in Section 2.2 when the speaker attemptedto undo an earlier request and did not properly demarkthe shift of focus.
The work of Grosz (1977, 1981),Reichman (1978, 1981), Webber (1978), and Sidner(1979) provided rules on deictics, anaphoric definitenoun phrases, the use of pronominals versus nonprono-minals, and so forth, that can be used to zero in ondiscourse problems.
So, for example, if a self-correctionof the use of a pronominal occurs (e.g., ".
.
.
.
it  - the X"),then a rule might state that focus could have shifted to X.Relaxation is then achieved by trying the hypothesizedfocus to see if a referent can now be found.
In general,discourse knowledge can suggest when the problem maybe due to the listener focussing on the wrong set ofobjects.
Correction can be attempted by shifting toanother set and testing whether or not the descriptionbetter fits one of the objects in the new set.3.1.7 HIERARCHICAL KNOWLEDGE IN REFERENCEImprecision (i.e., being overly general) in a speaker'sdescription can lead to confusion.
Being too specific canlead to similar results.
Hierarchical knowledge - that is,knowledge about a hierarchy of taxonomic informationabout our world - can be used by a listener to determinethe degree of imprecision or specificity of a description.We can model this behavior by consulting a prestoredgeneric/specific hierarchy of world elements, using thecurrent context o guide the comparison of the speaker'scurrent description to elements in the hierarchy, anddeciding on the basis of the comparison if the descriptionwas imprecise.
This comparison can isolate two types ofimprecision: imprecision of the whole description orimprecision of a particular feature value.286 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification FailuresAn imprecise description, missing details needed tofully distinguish a unique real world object, should pointout numerous candidates that exhibit the general featuresin the description rather than none at all.
Imprecisedescriptions can, however, lead to confusion that blocksthe listener from finding any referent.
If a particularfeature specified in a description is difficult to applybecause it isn't specific or well-defined, then it may benecessary to ignore it (e.g., the use of a value like"funny" such as in that funny red thing).
If a feature isambiguous with respect o how it should be applied, thenit may either require relaxation or further restriction(e.g., for the use of a feature value like "rounded," wemust ask whether we mean "2-D" or "3-D"  rounded,"cylindrical" or "bell-shaped", and so on).
The determi-nation that a feature is too imprecise might be possiblebefore a search for a referent is commenced.
An exam-ination of how high in the hierarchy the feature valueappears could signal when a more detailed value is need-ed.
Each of these problems was reflected in the waterpump protocols by listeners (e.g., see Excerpts 4 and 6).They often avoided searching for a referent because thespeaker's description was just too imprecise, causingthem confusion from the onset.The condition of being too specific is more difficult todetect.
In a task-oriented environment, one would noteasily notice that something was too specific sincenormally being very specific is a wise goal for a speaker.The drawback of being too specific occurs not so muchbecause of the specificity itself but because of its adverseside-effects.
These side-effects include the use of featurevalues that are too difficult for a non-expert o deter-mine, leading to confusion.
A description can also beoverspecific if it contains too many feature values orcontains a feature that is overpowering (e.g., see, respec-tively, Excerpts 2 and 10).3.1.8 RELAXING A DESCRIPTION USINGHIERARCHICAL KNOWLEDGEHierarchical knowledge can  resolve certain ambiguitiesby climbing or descending the hierarchy.
Such a hierar-chy search requires looking at a description at two levels:?
the description's placement' in the generic/specifichierarchy and?
the placement of the filler of each feature of thedescription in the generic/specific hierarchy.Hierarchical knowledge also interacts with perceptualknowledge.
The hearer can become confused when afeature value in the speaker's description is too hard tojudge.
For example, it is difficult to determine whether aparticular feature value applies when it is too specific.
Ifa more imprecise value is used (and it applies only to oneobject), it might be easier to find the described object(e.g., hippopotamus face shaped valve would be betterstated as rounded valve, as seen in Excerpt 10).
Hence, incases where a feature value is too specific, more impre-cise values could be tried to see if a referent can then befound.
These more imprecise values are found by lookinghigher in the hierarchy above the current feature valuefor more general terms.The use of 'hierarchical knowledge isn't always themost appropriate way to repair a description.
Considerdescriptions introduced only by head nouns (i.e., catego-ry descriptions) such as the plunger.
In such instances,when no clear representative of the category object ispresent, it is not necessarily best to check thegeneric/specific hierarchy to see what is "above" theconcept representing the category (e.g., finding deviceabove plunger).
It might be better to examine the attri-butes relevant o an average member of the category setsince it may be the standard values of those attributesthat the speaker is trying to get across in his or herdescription.
For example, in the description the mandrinking the martinL the speaker may be trying to get thelistener to look for someone drinking a clear liquid from acertain shaped glass with an olive in it.
The speaker isn'tparticularly concerned with the fact that the drinkcontains gin and vermouth.
If we just consulted thegeneric/specific taxonomy, however, we might simplyrelax martini to alcoholic beverage (such as to the mandrinking the beer) to liquid (such as to the man drinkingwater) and miss the descriptors that the speaker reallyintended us to use .
113.1.9 TRIAL AND ERROR KNOWLEDGE IN REFERENCETrial and error knowledge has to do with performancefeedback.
Its primary use is to determine whether a refer-ent was properly identified (including ones found withthe relaxation process).
Performance of a requestedaction is the strongest determining factor of whether ornot the listener correctly interpreted a speaker'sdescription, t2 Successful completion of an action will belikely to build confidence in the listener that he correctlyinterpreted a description.
Failure to find an object afterrelaxation leads the listener to ask the speaker to clarify;failure to successfully perform the requested action onthe object found during referent identification causes thelistener to ask himself what is wrong.
The trouble mightbe due to:?
the object identified from the speaker's description,?
the action attempted, or?
some prior (probably unnoticed) mistake that occurred.Failure may come not only from the inability to performan action but also from an action's postconditionfailing.
13 Determination of how badly a postconditionmust fail before the listener asks for clarification -instead of reconsidering the description - is unclear fromthe current protocols; further analysis collected fromdifferent protocols might resolve this matter.4 REPAIRING REFERENCE FAILURES4.1 INTRODUCTIONThe previous sections illustrated how task-orientednatural anguage interactions in the real world can inducecontextually poor utterances and the kinds of knowledgeComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 287Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failurespeople use to reason about them.
Given all the possibil-ities for confusion, when confusions do occur, they mustbe resolved if the task is to be performed.
This sectionexplores the problem of fixing reference failures.Reference identification is a search process where alistener looks for something in the world that satisfies aspeaker's uttered description.
A computational schemefor performing such reference identifications has evolvedfrom work by other artificial intelligence researchers(e.g., see Grosz 1977, Hoeppner et al 1983).
That tradi-tional approach succeeds if a referent is found, or fails ifno referent is found (see Figure 3a).
However, a refer-ence identification component must be more versatilethan those previously constructed.
The excerpts providedin Section 2.2 show the traditional approach is inade-quate because people's real behavior is much more elabo-rate.
In particular, listeners often find the correct referenteven when the speaker's description does not describeany object in the world.
For example, a speaker coulddescribe a turquoise block as the blue block.
Most listen-ers would go ahead and assume the turquoise block wasa listener's perception of the world.
The listener must askhimself whether he can perceive one of the objects in theworld the way the speaker described it.
In some cases,the listener's perception may overrule parts of thedescription because the listener can't perceive it the waythe speaker described it.To repair the traditional approach we have developedan algorithm that captures for certain cases the listener'sability to negotiate with himself for a referent.
It cansearch for a referent and, if it doesn't find one, it can tryto find possible referent candidates that might work, andthen loosen the speaker's description using knowledgeabout the speaker, the conversation, and the listenerhimself.
Thus, the reference process becomes multi-stepand resumable.
This computational model, which we callFWlM for "Find What I Mean", is more faithful to thedata than the traditional model (see Figure 3b).IIk~the one the speaker meant since turquoise and blue aresimilar colors.CurrentReferenceMechanismIIFa l l~~ uccess Mechanism \[Re -tryFigure 3a.
The Traditional approach to reference iden-tification.F~l lureFigure 3b.
FWIM approach to reference identification.A key feature to reference identification is negotiation.Negotiation in reference identification comes in twoforms.
First, it can occur between the listener and thespeaker.
The listener can step back, expand greatly onthe speaker's description of a plausible referent, and askfor confirmation that he has indeed found the correctreferent.
For example, a listener could initiate negotiationwith I'm confused.
Are you talking about the thing that iskind of flared at the top?
Couple inches long.
It's kind ofblue.
Second, negotiation can be with oneself.
This self-negotiation is the one we are most concerned with in thisresearch.
The listener considers aspects of the speaker'sdescription, the context of the communication, the listen-er's own abilities, and other relevant sources of know-ledge.
He then applies that deliberation to determinewhether one referent candidate is better than another or,if no candidate is found, what are the most likely placesfor error or confusion.
Such negotiation can result in thelistener testing whether or not a particular referentworks.
For example, linguistic descriptions can influenceOne means of making sense of a failed description isto delete or replace the portions that cause it not tomatch objects in the hearer's world.
In our program weare using "relaxation" techniques to capture this behav-ior.
Our reference identification module treatsdescriptions as approximate.
It relaxes a description inorder to find a referent when the literal content of thedescription fails to provide the needed information.Relaxation, however, is not performed blindly on thedescription.
We try to model a person's behavior bydrawing on sources of knowledge used by people.
Wehave developed a computational model that can relaxaspects of a description using many of these sources ofknowledge.
Relaxation then becomes a form of commu-nication repair (in the style of the work on repair theoryfound in Brown and VanLehn (1980)).
A goal in ourmodel is to use the knowledge sources to reduce thenumber of referent candidates that must be consideredwhile making sure that a particular relaxation makessense.288 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failures4.2 THE REFERENT IDENTIFIER ANDRELAXATION COMPONENTThis section describes the overall relaxation componentin the context of the referent identifier.
We explain howthe relaxation component draws on knowledge sourcesabout descriptions and the real world as it tries to relaxan errorful description to one for which a referent can beidentified.4.2.1 FIND A REFERENT USING A REFERENCE MECHANISMIdentifying the referent of a description requires findingan element in the world that corresponds to the speaker'sdescription (where every feature specified in thedescription is present in the element in the world but notnecessarily vice versa).
This process corresponds to thetechnique employed in the traditional reference mech-anism.
The initial task of our reference mechanism is todetermine whether or not a search of the (taxonomic)knowledge base that we use to model the world is neces-sary.
For example, in the water pump domain, the refer-ence component should not bother searching - unlessspecifically requested to do so - for a referent for indefi-nite noun phrases (which usually describe new orhypothetical objects) or extremely vague descriptions(which are ambiguous because they do not clearlydescribe an object since they are composed of imprecisefeature values).
A number of aspects of discourse prag-matics can-be used in that determination.
For example,the use of a deictic in a definite noun phrase, such as thisX or the last X, hints that the object was either mentionedpreviously or that it probably was evoked by some previ-ous reference, and that it is searchable.
We will notexamine such aspects any further in this paper.The knowledge base contains linguistic descriptionsand a description of the listener's visual scene itself.
Inour implementation and algorithms, we assume it isrepresented in KL-One (Brachman 1977), a system fordescribing taxonomic knowledge.
KL-One is composed ofCONCEPTs, ROLEs on concepts, and links between them.A CONCEPT denotes a set, representing those elementsdescribed by it.
A SUPERC link ( "==>")  is usedbetween concepts to show set inclusion.
It defines arelation called subsumption that specifies that the setdenoted by one concept is included in the other.
Forexample, consider Figure 4.
The SUPERC from ConceptB to Concept A is like stating B CA for two sets A and B.An INDIVIDUAL CONCEPT is used to guarantee that theset specified by a concept denotes a singleton set.
TheIndividual Concept D shown in the figure is defined to bea unique member of the set specified by Concept C.ROLEs on concepts are like attributes or slots in otherknowledge representation languages.
They define a func-tional relationship between the concept and otherconcepts that specifies a restriction on what can fill aparticular slot.nceK)tFigure 4.
A KL-One taxonomy.Once a search of the knowledge base is considerednecessary, a reference search mechanism is invoked.
Thesearch mechanism uses the KL-One Classifier (Lipkis1982) to search the knowledge base taxonomy.
Thissearch is constrained by a focus mechanism based on theone developed by Grosz (1977).
The Classifier's purposeis to discover all appropriate subsumption relationshipsbetween a newly-formed description and all otherconcepts in a given taxonomy.
With respect o reference,this means that descriptions of all possible referents ofthe description will be subsumed by the description afterit has been classified into the knowledge base taxonomy.If more than one candidate referent is below (when aconcept A is subsumed by B, we say A is below B) theclassified description, then, unless a quantifier in thedescription specified more than one element, the speak-er's description is ambiguous.
If exactly one concept isbelow it, then the intended referent is assumed to havebeen found.
Finally, if no referent is found below theclassified description, the relaxation component can beinvoked.
Prior to actually using the relaxation compo-nent, FWlM checks to see if the problem resides not withthe description but with pragmatic issues.
We will onlyconsider the no reference case in the rest of the paper.4.2.2 COLLECT VOTES FOR OR AGAINST RELAXING THEDESCRIPTIONIf the referent search fails, then it is necessary to deter-mine whether the lack of a referent for a description hasto do with the description itself (i.e., reference failure) orwith outside forces that are causing reference confusion.For example, an external problem due to outside forcesmay be with the flow of the conversation and the speak-er's and listener's perspectives on it; it may be due toincorrect attachment of a modifier; it may be due to theaction requested; and so on.
Pragmatic rules are invokedto decide whether or not the description should berelaxed.
For example, aspects on focus, metonomy andsynecdoche are considered to see if they affected thereferent search) 4These rules will not be discussed here;we will assume that the problem lies in the speaker'sdescription.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 289Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failures4.2.3 PERFORM THE RELAXATION OF THE DESCRIPTIONIf relaxation is demanded, then the system must?
find potential referent candidates,?
determine which features in the speaker's descriptionto relax and in what order, and use those orderedfeatures to order the potential candidates with respectto the preferred ordering of features, and?
determine the proper relaxation techniques to use andapply them to the description.FIND POTENTIAL REFERENT CANDIDATESBefore relaxation takes place, the algorithm looks forpotential candidates for referents (which denote elementsin the listener's visual scene).
These candidates arediscovered by performing a "walk" in the knowledgebase taxonomy in the general vicinity of the speaker'sclassified description as partitioned by the focusingmechanism.
The walk is performed by moving up anddown the SuperC links, checking each candidate.
AKL-One partial matcher is used to determine how closethe candidate descriptions found during the walk are tothe speaker's description.
The partial matcher generates anumerical score to represent how well the descriptionsmatch (after first generating scores at the feature level tohelp determine how the features are to be aligned andhow well they match).
This score is based on informationabout KL-One (e.g., the subsumption relationshipbetween or the equality of two feature values) and doesnot take into account any information about the taskdomain.
The set of best descriptions returned by thematcher (as determined by some cutoff score) is selectedas the set of referent candidates.
The ordering of featuresand candidates for relaxation described below takes intoaccount he task domain.ORDER THE FEATURES AND CANDIDATES FOR RELAXATIONAt this point the reference system inspects the speaker'sdescription and the candidates, decides which features torelax and in what order, 15 and generates a master order-ing of features for relaxation.
That ordering is importantsince relaxing in different orders could yield matches todifferent objects.
Once the feature order is created, thereference system uses that ordering to determine theorder in which to try relaxing the candidates.We draw primarily on sources of linguistic knowledge,pragmatic knowledge, discourse knowledge, domainknowledge, perceptual knowledge, hierarchical know-ledge, and trial and error knowledge during this repairprocess.
A detailed treatment of many of them waspresented in Section 3.
These knowledge sources areconsulted to determine the feature ordering for relaxa-tion.
We represent information from each knowledgesource as a set of relaxation rules.
Most of the rules weremotivated by the problems illustrated in the protocols.They are written in a PROLOG-like language.
Figure 5illustrates one such linguistic knowledge relaxation rule.This rule is motivated by the observation that speakerstypically add more important information at the end of adescription (where it is separated from the main part ofthe description and, thus, provides more emphasis).
Therule in Figure 5 simply embodies the fact that relativeclauses are found at the end of noun phrases, whileadjectives are not and, thus, the features of a descriptionthat are provided adjectivally should be reiaxed beforethose provided by a relative clause.
However, a moregeneral and more applicable rule is that informationpresented at the end of a description is usually moreprominent (i.e., that information was placed more strong-ly in focus by the speaker).Relax the features in the speaker's descriptionin the order: adjectives, then prepositionalphrases, and finally relative clauses andpredicate complements.l--g -aRelax-Feature-Before (v l .v 2 )?-Obj ectDescr (d).FeatureDescrlptor (v 1 ),FeatureDescrlptor(v2 ),Feature !
nDescripUon (v l ,d),Feature I nDescripUon (v 2.d ),Equal (syntactic -form (v 1 ,d ),"ADJ")oEqual (syntactic -form (v 2 ,d ).
"RE L-C L $")Figure 5.
A sample linguistic relaxation rule.Figure 6 provides an example of a couple of thediscourse knowledge relaxation rules.
The rules notewhen misfocus is likely.
They simulate how a listener candetect confusion on the part of the speaker during thesearch for a referent if the speaker interrupts his ownutterance.
16An interruption can come about with a falsestart or a self-correction.
A false start occurs when thespeaker goofs on his initial description, stops, and thenrestarts the description (also see Polanyi (1978) on falsestarts).
For example, exclamations like oops, never mind,oh no, and so on, are signals of false starts meant toinform the listener that there is a problem, though notstating precisely where the problem occurred.
The prob-lem could be due to the current utterance or a previousone.
Speakers often (falsely) assume the listener"knows" just where the speaker means.
Typically, alistener presumes the problem is with the current utter-ance.
A listener should, however, note that a false starthas occurred at this point in the dialogue and be preparedto back up to the same place later on.
Self-correctionsare less interruptive than false starts and more explicitabout the source of the problem.
They are redescriptionsof a piece of the speaker's utterance that occur as it isspoken.
Descriptions like it-the tube or the large blue-uhviolet tube are typical ones that occur.
As with false290 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failuresstarts, such places are conducive to confusion and shouldbe noted by the listener.Focus shi ft  re laxat ion  rules:MarkForPoss lb leConfus ion(u)4-- Ut terance(u) ,  Fa lseStar t (u)MarkPorPoss ib leConfus ion(d)?
- -  ObjectDescr(d) ,  Se l l -Cor rect /on(d)whereFalseStart lu i :  This  p red icate  determineswhether  or not  a fa lse  s tar t  has occurredtn some ut terance ,  u.
Such fa l se  s tar tshave  to be  caught  by  the parser .Self-Correction|al l :  This p red icate  looksfor se l f - cor rect /ons  in a descr ip t ion ,  d.As  w i th  PalseStarto i t  wou ld  have  to beimp lemented  ins ide  the  parser .Figure 6.
Two discourse knowledge relaxation rules.Each knowledge source produces its own partialordering of features.
17 Each partial ordering is topologi-cally sorted to provide a consistent format for compar-ison.
The partial orderings are then considered together.For example, perceptual knowledge may say to relaxcolo,'.
However, if the color value was asserted in a rela-tive clause, linguistic knowledge would rank color lower,i.e., placing it later in the list of things to relax.Since different knowledge sources generally producedifferent partial orderings of features, these differencescan lead to a conflict over which features to relax.
It isthe job of the best candidate algorithm to resolve thesedisagreements among knowledge sources.
Its goal is toorder the referent candidates, C1, C 2 .
.
.
.
.
Cn, so thatrelaxation is attempted on the best candidates first.Those candidates are the ones that conform best to theproposed feature orderings.
To start, the algorithm exam-ines candidates and the feature orderings from eachknowledge source.
For each candidate Cj, the algorithmscores the effect of relaxing the speaker's originaldescription D to Cj, using the feature ordering from oneknowledge source.
The score reflects the goal of mini-mizing the number of features relaxed while trying torelax the features that are "earliest" in the featureordering?
8 Thus, these heuristics provide a simple way toreflect in the score how well a particular candidate fits afeature ordering.
Notice that such scoring could very wellfavor a candidate C 1 that requires more features to berelaxed in D than another candidate C 2 if those featuresare earlier in the feature ordering than those required byC a.
The algorithm repeats its scoring of Cj for eachknowledge source, and sums up its scores to form Cj'stotal score.
The Cjs are then ordered by that score (withthe lower scores first).Figure 7 provides a graphic illustration of what thebest candidate algorithm does.
The speaker's descriptionis represented at the top of the figure.
The set of speci-fied features and their assigned feature value (e.g., thepair Color: Maroon) are also ~hown there.
A set ofobjects in the real world are selected by the partialmatcher as potential candidates for the referent.
Thesecandidates are shown near the top of the figure (C 1, C 2,.... Cn).
Inside each box is a set of features and featurevalues that describe that object.
A set of partial orderingsare generated that suggest which features in the speaker'sdescription should be relaxed first - one ordering foreach knowledge source (shown as "Linguistic,""Perceptual," and "Hierarchical" in the figure).
Forexample, linguistic knowledge recommends relaxingColor or Shape before Function, and relaxing Functionbefore Size.
Finally, the referent candidates are reor-dered using the information expressed in the speaker'sdescription and in the partial orderings of features.DETERMINE WHICH RELAXATION METHODS TO APPLYOnce a set of ordered, potential candidates is selected,the relaxation mechanism begins step 3 of relaxation; ittries to find proper relaxation methods to relax thefeatures that have just been ordered (success in findingsuch methods justifies relaxing the speaker's descriptionto a particular candidate).
It stops at the first candidatein the list of candidates to which methods can be success-fully applied.
This step is the second place where theknowledge sources are useful.Relaxation can take place with many aspects of aspeaker's description: with complex relations pecified inthe description, with individual features of a referentspecified by the description, and with the focus of atten-tion in the real world where one attempts to find amatch.
Complex relations specified in a speaker'sdescription include spatial relations (e.g., the outlet nearthe top of the tube), comparatives (e.g., the larger tube),and superlatives (e.g., the longest tube).
These can berelaxed.
The simpler features of an object (such as size orcolor) specified in the speaker's description are also opento relaxation.Relaxation of a description has a few global strategiesthat can be followed for each part of the description:1. drop the errorful feature value from the descriptionaltogether,2.
weaken or tighten the feature value in a principledway keeping its new value close to the specified one(e.g., movement within a subsumption hierarchy offeature values), or3.
try some other feature value based on some outsideinformation (e.g., knowing that people often confuseopposite word pairs such as using hole for peg as illus-trated in Excerpt 10).Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 291Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification FailuresSpeaker'sDescription"the rounded maroon devicethat Is large"RepresentedDescription ~ olor: Maroon I kepo: Roved J unction: Device\]izo: torp JDI Dler: Orelqe I iCclor: Red I Impo: Noun J ISbepo: Cglimler I ?
ic'-por -''': "'"clC l C 2Candidate ObjectsPar t ia l  Orderin 9of  featuresfo r  re laxat ionusing eachknowledge sourcesru lesReorderedCandidate Objectsi Celer: Red \] $hlle: Cgll INIOF J Compo;illan: PlutJcJC 2f Color: Red SUps:  Brick Function: Support~m~ Color ( Shape ( Function ( Sizer?opluQICo lor  or  Shape < Funct ion  < S izenKuistl?Co lor  < Shape or  Funct ion  or  S i zeiliereurcht?81IIf oler: Oreowe \] IColer: Red \] *,pc: a.ed  I .
.
.
ISkopo: Brick I "--r': '"1 1"'"7: '""r'lC I ~usFigure 7.
Reordering referent candidates.When performing relaxation, one would attempt o usethe least drastic measures first.
(1) is the most drastic,while (2) is the least; (3) is in between.Often the objects in focus in the real world implicitlycause other objects to be in focus (Grosz 1977, Webber1978).
The subparts of an object in focus, for example,are reasonable candidates for the referent of a failingdescription and should be checked.
At other times, thespeaker might attribute features of a subpart of an objectto the whole object (e.g., describing a plunger that iscomposed of a red handle, a metal rod, a blue cap, and agreen cup as the green plunger).
In these cases, the relax-ation mechanism utilizes the part-whole relation in objectdescriptions to suggest a way to relax the speaker'sdescription.These strategies are realized through a set of proce-dures (or relaxation methods) that are organized hierar-chically.
Each procedure is an expert at relaxing itsparticular type of feature and draws on the knowledgesources for its expertise.
For example, a Generate-Simi-lar-Feature-Values procedure is composed of procedureslike Generate-Similar-Shape-Values, Generate-Sim-ilar-Color-Values and Generate-Similar-Size-Values.Each of those procedures i  a specialist hat attempts tofirst relax the feature value to one "near" or somehow"related" to the current one (e.g., one would prefer tofirst relax the color red to pink before relaxing it to blue)and then, if that fails, to try relaxing it to any of the otherpossible values.
19 The effect of the latter case is really thesame as if the feature was simply ignored.4.3 AN EXAMPLE OF MISREFERENCE RESOLUTIONThis section describes how a" referent identificationsystem can recover from a misreference using the schemeoutlined in the previous ection.
For the purposes of thisexample, assume that the water pump objects currently infocus include the CAP, the MAINTUBE, theAIRCHAMBER and the STAND.
Assume also that thespeaker tries to describe two of the objects - theMAINTUBE and  the  A IRCHAMBER.292 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification FailuresSTANDOCAPDeserA:DescrB:DeserC:DescrDDeserE:".
.
.
two devices that are clear plastic.One of them has two openings on the outside with threads onthe end, and it's about five inches long.The other one is a rounded piece with a turquoise base on it.Both are tubular.The rounded piece fits loosely over .
.
.
"MAINTUBEAIRCHAMBERThe reference system can find a unique referent forthe first object (described by DeserA, DeserB andDeserD) but not for the second (described by DeserA,DeserC, DeserD, and DeserE), since none of the focusedobjects are TURQUOISE.
The relaxation algorithm isshown below to reduce the number of referent candi-dates for the second object to two.
It, then, requires thesystem/listener to try out those candidates to determineif one, or both, fits loosely.
The protocols exhibit a simi-lar result when the listener uses "fits loosely" to get thecorrect referent (e.g., Excerpt 6 exemplifies where "fit"is used by the speaker to help confirm that the properreferent was found).
Our system simulates this test byasking the user about the fit.Figure 8 provides a simplified and linearized view ofthe actual KL-One representation of the speaker'sdescriptions after they have been parsed and semanticallyinterpreted.A representation of each of the water pump objectscurrently under consideration (i.e., in focus) is presentedin Figure 9.
Each provides a physical description of theobject - in terms of its dimensions, the basic 3-D shapescomposing it, and its physical features - and a basic func-tional description of the object.
The first upper case entryin each representation i  Figure 9 defines the basic kindof entity being described (e.g., TUBE means that theobject being described is some kind of tube).
The wordsin mixed case refer to the names of features, and theother upper case words refer to possible fillers of thosefeatures from things in the water pump world.
The"Subpart" feature provides a place for an embeddeddescription of an object that is a subpart of a parent.object.
Such subparts can be referred to on their own oras part of the parent object.
The "Orientation" feature,used in the representations in Figure 9, provides a rota-tion and translation of the object from some standardorientation to the object's current orientation in 3-Dspace.
The standard orientation provides a way to definerelative positions such as top, bottom, or side.
Figure 10shows the KL-One taxonomy representing the sameobjects.DescrA: (DEVICEDescrB: (DEVICEDescrC: (DEVICEDescrD: (DEVICE(Transparency CLEAR)(Composition PLASTIC))(Transparency CLEAR)(Composition PLASTIC)(Subpart (OPENING))(Subpart (OPENING))(Subpart(THREADS (RaI-Positlon END)))(Dimensions (Length 5.0)))(Transparency CLEAR)(Composition PLASTIC)(Shape ROUND)(Subpart (BASE (Color TURQUOISE))))(Transparency CLEAR)(Composition PLASTIC)(Subpar_t (OPENING))(5ubpart (OPENING))(Subpart(THREADS (RaT-Position END)))(Dimensions (LENGTH 5.0))(Analogical-Shape TUBULAR))(DEVICE (Transparency CLEAR)(Composition PLASTIC)(Shape ROUND)(Analogical-Shape TUBULAR)(Subpart (BASE (Color TURQUOISE))))DescrE: (FIT-INTO(Outer (DEVICE (Transparency CLEAR)(Composition PLASTIC)(Shape ROUND)(Analogical-Shape TUBULAR)(Suhpart(BASE (Color TURQUOISE)))))( Inner.
.
.
)(FitCondition LOOSE))Figure 8.
The speaker's descriptions.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 293Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification FailuresThe first step in the reference process is the actualsearch for a referent in the knowledge base.
In people,the reference identification process is incremental innature, i.e., the listener can begin the search processbefore he hears the complete description.
This wasobserved throughout he videotape excerpts where anapprentice would commence his search after just a fewwords in a description.
We try to simulate this incre-mental nature in our algorithm.
It is readily apparentwhen considering the placement of the first description inDeserD into the KL-One taxonomy shown in Figure 10.DeserD is incrementally defined by first adding DeserA -as shown in Figure 1 1 - and then DescrB - as shown inFigure 13 - to the taxonomy.
The KL-One Classifiercompares the features specified in the speaker'sdescriptions with the features pecified for each elementin the KL-One taxonomy that corresponds to one of thecurrent objects of interest in the real world.
Notice thatsome features are directly comparable.
For example, the"Transparency" feature of DeserA and the"Transparency" feature of MAINTUBE are both equal to"CLEAR."
All the other features pecified in DeserA fitthe MAINTUBE so the MAINTUBE can be described byDeserA.
This is illustrated in Figure 12, whereMAINTUBE is shown as a subconcept of DeserA.
STANDalso is shown as a subconcept of DescrA.
AIRCHAMBERis shown as a possible subconcept (with the dotted arrow)because DeserA mismatches with it on one of itssubparts.
2?
CAP#1 is not shown as a subconcept ofDeserA  since its "Transparency" feature is OPAQUE andnot CLEAR.
Other features require in-depth processing- which is outside the capability of the KL-One classifier- before they can be compared.
The OPENING value of"Subpart" in DeserB provides a good example of this.Consider comparing it to the "Subpart" entries forMAINTUBE shown in Figure 9.
An OPENING, as seen inFigure 14, is thought of primarily as a 2-D cross-section(such as a "hole"), while the three CYLINDER subpartsof MAINTUBE (labelled as Lip, Outlet1, and Outlet2 inFigure 9) are viewed as (3-D) cylinders that have the"Function" of being outlets, i.e., OUTLET-ATTACH-MENT-POINTS.
To compare OPENING and one of thecylinders, say CYLINDER#1 (for Lip), the inference mustbe made that both things can describe the same thing(similar inferences are developed in Mark (1982)).
Oneway this inference can occur is by recursively examiningthe subparts of MAINTUBE (and their subparts, etc.
)with the KL-One partial matcher until the cylinders areexamined at the 2-D level.
At that level, an end of thecylinder will be defined as an OPENING.
With that exam-ination, the MAINTUBE can be seen as described byDescrB.
This inference process is illustrated in Figure 14.There the partial matcher examines the roles Lip,Outletl, and Outlet2 of MAINTUBE , which represents itssubparts, and determines the following:?
A CYLINDER can have an End which is either a2D-End (e.g., a lid or hole) or a 3D-End (e.g., a lip).?
A 2D-End is either an OPEN-2D-END (e.g., a hole) or aCLOSED-2D-END (e.g., a lid on a can).?
An OPEN-2D-END is a kind of OPEN-2D-OBJECT.These facts imply that OPENING can match any of thesubparts Lip, Outlet1, or Outlet2 on MAINTUBE sincethose subparts are defined as cylinders that function asoutlets (i.e., Outlet-Attachment-Points).DeserC poses different problems.
DeserC refers to anobject that is supposed to have a subpart that isTURQUOISE.
The Classifier determines that DescrCcould not describe either the CAP or STAND becauseboth are BLUE.
It also could not describe theMAINTUBE 21 or AIRCHAMBER since each has subpartsthat are either VIOLET or BLUE.
The Classifier placesDescrC as best it can in the taxonomy, showing noconnections between it and any of the objects currentlyin focus.
DescrD provides no further help and is similarlyplaced.
This is shown in Figure 1 5.
At this point, a prob-able misreference is noted.
The reference mechanismnow tries to find potential referent candidates, using thetaxonomy exploration routine described in Section 4.2.3,by examining the elements closest to DeserD in thetaxonomy and using the partial matcher to score howclose each element is to DeserD.
22 This is illustrated inFigure 16.
The matcher determines MAINTUBE, STAND,and AIRCHAMBER as reasonable candidates by aligningand comparing their features to DeserD.Scor ing DeserD to MAINTUBE:?
a TUBE is a kind of DEVICE; (>)?
the Transparency of each is CLEAR; (+)?
the Composition of each is PLASTIC; (+)?
a TUBE implies Analogical-Shape TUBULAR, whichimplies Shape CYLINDRICAL, which is a kind of ShapeROUND; (>)?
the recursive partial matching of subparts: BASE isviewed as a kind of BOTTOM.
Therefore, BASE inDeserD could match to the subpart in MAINTUBE thathas a Translation of (0.0 0.0 0.0) - i.e., Threads ofMAINTUBE.
However, they mismatch since colorTURQUOISE in DeserD differs from color VIOLET ofMAINTUBE.
(--)Scoring DescrD to STAND:?
a TUBE is a kind of DEVICE; (>)?
the Transparency of each is CLEAR; (+)?
the Composition of each is PLASTIC; (+)?
a TUBE implies Analogical-Shape TUBULAR, whichimplies Shape CYLINDRICAL, which is a kind of ShapeROUND; (>)?
the recursive partial matching of subparts: BASE inDeserD could match to the subpart in STAND that hasa Translation of (0.0 0.0 0.0) - i.e., Base of STAND.However, they mismatch since color TURQUOISE inDeserD differs from color BLUE of STAND.
(--)294 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failures(CAP (Color BLUE)(Composition PLASTIC)CAP  (Transparency OPAQUE)(Dimensions (Length .
25) (Diameter .5) )(Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 90.0))(Translation (0.0 0.0 0.0) ) ) )(TUBE (Color VIOLET)(Composition PLASTIC)(Transparency CLEAR)(Dimensions (Length 4.
125) )(Subpart (CYLINDER (Dimensions (Length .25)MAINTUBEL~(Subpart (CYLINDERTubaBody(Subpart (CYLINDERThreads(Subpart (CYLINDEROu~atl(Subpart (CTLINDEROuUe~(Diameter 1.125))(Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 0.0))(Translation (0.0 0.0 3.75)))(Function OUTLET-ATTACHMENT-POINT)))(Dimensions (Length 3.5) (Diameter 1.0))(Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 0.0))(Translation (0.0 0.0 .25)))))(Dimensions (Length .25) (Diameter 1.125))(Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 0.0))(Translation (0.0 0.0 0.0)))(Function THREADED-ATTACHMENT-POINT)))(Dimensions (Length .375) (Diameter .5))(Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 90.0))(Translation (0.0 .5 3.00)))(Function OUTLET-ATTACHMENT-POINT)))(Dimensions (Length .375) (Diameter .5))(Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 90.0))(Translation (0.0 .5 .625))(Function OUTLET-ATTACHMENT-POINT))))AIRCHAMBER(CONTAINER (Dimensions (LENGTH 2.75) )(Composition PLASTIC)(Subpart (HEMISPHERE (Color VIOLET}(Transparency CLEAR)Chamber (Dimensions (Diameter I.
0) )Top (Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 0.0) )(Translation (0.0 0.0 2.25)))))(Subpart (CYLINDER (Color VIOLET)(Transparency CLEAR)Chamber (Dimensions (Length I.
0) (Diameter 2.25) )Body (Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 0.0) )(Translation (0.0 0.0 .375) ) ) ) )(Subpart (CYLINDER (Color BLUE)(Transparency OPAQUE)(Dimensions (Length .375) (Diameter 1.25))(Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 0.0) )Chamber (Translation (0.0 0.0 0.0) ) )Bot tom (Function CAP OUTLET-ATTACHMENT-POINT)(Subpart (CYLINDER (color BLUE)(Dimensions (Length .
375)(Diameter .
5) )(Orientation(Rotation (0.0 0.0 0.0))(Translation (0.0 0.0 0.0)))(FunctionOUTLET-ATTACHMENT-POINT) ) ) ) )(Subpart (CYLINDER (Color VIOLET)ChamberOutlet(Transparency CLEAR)(Dimensions (Length .5) (Diameter .375) )(Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 90.0) )(Translation (.
625 .
625 .
625) ) )(Function OUTLET-ATTACHMENT-POINT) ) ) )STAND(TUBE (Dimensions (Length 2.75))(Composition PLASTIC)(Subpart (CYLINDER (Color BLUE)(Transparency CLEAR)Top (Dimensions (Length 2.25) (Diameter .375) )(Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 0.0) )(Translation (.
5 0.0 .
375) ) )(Function OUTLET-ATTACHMENT-POINT) ) )(Subpart (CYLINDER (Color BLUE)(Transparency CLEAR)Base (Dimensions (Length .375) (Diameter i.
0) )(Orientation (Rotation (0.0 0.0 0.0))(Translation (0.0 0.0 0.0)))(Function OUTLET-ATTACHMENT-POINT) ) ) )@{aFigure 9.
The objects in focus.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 295Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification FailuresPhysica lOb ject"  Object =End Cy l inder  Dev ice  =3D-End TubeCap eChamber ,Figure 10.
Taxonomy representing the objects in focus.CompositionPlasticDescrAT ronsporon?yC lear296Figure 11.
Adding DeserA to the taxonomy.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification a d Reference Identification FailuresPhysicalObject* Object*End ~ Cylinder Device*3D-End _)(~1~)-( Tube 1( DescrACop* Container*ChamberFigure 12.
The classified DescrA.Di mensionsmensionsDescrBSubpert3Subpert2EndLength5 inchesFigure 13.
Adding DescrB to the taxonomy.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986OpeningEndThreads297Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification a d Reference Identification FailuresFigure 14.
Attempt o match OPENING to CYLINDER#1.PhysicalI : .d ~(~)=(  Cylinder k ~ Device"3D-End )tO~D-( Tube l r  OescrACap"Chamber,DescrC ~ Dose&tmlqtee|-SlmpeDascrD ~ TubularFigure 15.
Adding DescrC and DescrD to the taxonomy.298 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failures~Vs~a4-Object- -  c#~ud,Ftwmt imt~-~ j tc t  l )~fumFigure 16.
Exploring the taxonomy for referent candidates.D~cfDMatntu l~Stan4AI r  ChamberSuperC Compos i t ion  T ransparency  Shape  Subpar ts) ?
? )
-) + ?
)> + ?
>Ilemge ef rele uern :Lev - ?
= ( ) * HighCerreletien Cor reletionFigure 17.
Scoring DescrD to the referent candidates.Scoring DescrD to AIRCHAMBER:?
a CONTAINER is a kind of DEVICE; (>)?
the Transparency of DescrD, CLEAR, matches theTransparency of ChamberTop, ChamberOutlet, andChamberBody of AIRCHAMBER but mismatches theTransparency of ChamberBottom of AIRCHAMBER.Therefore, the partial match is uncertain; (?)?
the Composition of each is PLASTIC; (+)?
the suhparts of AIRCHAMBER have Shape HEMIS-PHERICAL and CYLINDRICAL which are each a kindof Shape ROUND; (>)?
the recursive partial matching of subparts: BASE inDescrD could match to the subpart in AIRCHAMBERthat has a translation of (0.0 0.0 0.0) - i.e., Chamber-Bottom of AIRCHAMBER.
However, they mismatchsince color TURQUOISE in DescrD differs from colorBLUE of AIRCHAMBER.
(--)Figure 17 summarizes the scoring.
A weighted, overallnumerical score is generated from the scores shownthere.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 299Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification FailuresThe above analysis using the partial matcher providesno clear winner since the differences are so close, causingthe scores generated for the candidates to be almostexactly the same (i.e., the only difference was in thescore for Transparency).
If there was a candidate thathad a score significantly better than the others, then thatcandidate would be a clear winner.
For example, a clearwinner occurs if all but one of the candidates differ dras-tically in their feature values when compared to thefeature values in the speaker's description.
In thatinstance, i t  would be unnecessary to proceed further; wewould assume the winner was our referent.
For thisexample, however, all candidates will be retained.At this point, the knowledge sources and their associ-ated rules, mentioned earlier, apply.
These rules attemptto order the feature values in the speaker's descriptionfor relaxation.
First, we'll order the features in DescrDusing linguistic knowledge.
Linguistic analysis of DeserD,".
.
.
.
are clear plastic ... a rounded piece with a turquoisebase ...
Both are tubular ... fits loosely over .... " tells usthat the features were specified using the following modi-fiers:?
Adjective: (Shape ROUND)?
Prepositional Phrase: (Subpart (BASE (ColorTURQUOISE)))?
Predicate Complement: (Transparency CLEAR),(Composition PLASTIC), (Analogical-ShapeTUBULAR), (Fit LOOSE)Observations from the protocols (as described by therules developed by Goodman (1984)) has shown thatpeople tend to relax first those features specified asadjectives, then as prepositional phrases, and finally asrelative clauses or predicate complements.
Figure 5shows this rule.
The rule suggests relaxation of DescrDin the order:{Shape} < {Color,Subpart}< {Transparency,Composition,Analogical-Shape,Fit}.The set of features on the left side of a "<"  symbol isrelaxed before the set on the right side.
The order thatthe features inside the braces, "{...}", are relaxed is leftunspecified (i.e., any order of relaxation is all right).Perceptual information about the domain also providessuggestions.
Whenever a feature has feature values thatare close, then one should be prepared to relax any ofthem to  any of the others (we call this the clusteredfeature value rule; it was motivated in Section 3.1.3).Figure 18 illustrates a set of assertions that compose adata base of similar color values in some domain.
TheSimilar-Color predicate is defined to be reflexive andsymmetric but not transitive.
In this example, since anumber of the color pairs are very close, color may be areasonable thing to relax (see Figure 19).
The clusteredcolor rule defined in Figure 20 would suggest such arelaxation.
It requires that at least three objects in theworld have similar colors.
It is meant as an exemplar fora whole series of rules (e.g., ClusteredShapeValues,ClusteredTransparencyValues, and so on).
{Color} < {Shape,Subpart,Transparency,Composition,Analogical-Shape,Fit }.Similar-Color ("BLUE","VIOLET'")4-Similar-Color ("BLUE","TURQUOISE")4-Similar-Color ("OREEN".
"TURQUOISE")e-Similar-Color ("RED","PINK")~-Similar-Color ("RED","MAROON")e-Similar-Color ("RED","MAOENTA")~-Figure 18.
Similar color values.MainTube- violetColors of Stand-  blueCandidates Air Chamber-  violet, blue& DescrDDescrD- turquoiseRetr ieve those S imi la r -Co lor  assert ions?
In the date base for  the colors BLUE,VIOLET and TURQUOISE.St mS I ar -Col  or("BL UE","V l OLET")<--St milar-Color("BLUE"o"TURQUOISE")(--S imI Iar-Color("GREEN","TURQUOISE")~-Figure 19.
Objects with similar colors.One can re lax  a feature  whose feature  va luesare  c lus tered  c lose ly  to9ether  be fore  those  of anon-c lus tered  feature .Cluster edFeatureValues(COLOR.w).
-Feature (COLOR),Worid (w),ColorValue(c I )oCOlorValue(c2),ColorValue(C3)oWorldObj(o I,w),WorldObj (o2,w), WorldObj (aS,w),Color (c 1 ,o I ),Color (c 2 .o 2 ).Color (c 5.0 3 ).Simllar-Color(c l .c2).Similar-Color(c I.c3).Similar-Color(c2,c~)Relax-Feature-Before (v 1,v 2 )~-ClusteredFeatureValues(feature(v l ) ,w),NOT(ClusteredFeatureValues(feature(v2),w))Figure 20.
The clustered color value rule.300 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification FailuresShapeRound3D-Round 2D-RoundConical Spherical Elliptical-Sheped CircularFigure 21.
Hierarchical shape knowledge.Hierarchical information about how closely relatedone feature value is to another can also be used to deter-mine what to relax.
The Shape values are a good exam-ple, as shown in Figure 21.
A CYLINDRICAL shape isalso a CONICAL shape, which is also a 3-D ROUNDshape.
Hence, it is very reasonable to match ROUNDEDto  CYL INDRICAL .
{Shape} < {Color,Subpart,Transparency,Composition,Analogical-Shape,Fit }.The suggested orderings above can be merged.
Sincesuch orderi.ngs can have contradictory suggestions, wemust describe the merging process.
For example, in theabove orderings, one says to relax Color first, while theother says to relax Shape first.
We combine both intoone rule that says to relax either of them firsti"{Shape,Color} < ...".
Another condition that occurs inthe above orderings is when one rule says to relax aparticular feature before others, while another ule doesnot care which of those features are relaxed first.
In thatcase, one should use the more restrictive rule.
Hencesince one rule states that Subpart should be relaxedbefore the features Transparency, Composition, Analogi-cal-Shape, and Fit, and the other rule does not care abouttheir ordering, we split out Subpart and put it before theothers:{Subpart} < {Transparency,Composition,Analogical-Shape ,Fit}.Compu{ational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 301Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification FailuresFinally, all of these suggestions can be put together toform the order:{Shape,Color} < {Subpart}< {Transparency,Composition,Analogical-Shape,Fit}.The referent candidates MAINTUBE, STAND, andAIRCHAMBER can be examined and possibly orderedthemselves using the above feature ordering.
For thisexample, the relaxation of DeserD to any of the candi-dates requires relaxing their SHAPE and COLOR features.Since they each require relaxing the same features, thecandidates Can not be ordered with respect o each other(i.e., none of the possible feature orders is better forrelaxing the candidates).
Hence, no one candidate standsout as the most likely referent.While no ordering of the candidates was possible, theorder generated to relax the features in the speaker'sdescription can still be used to guide the relaxation ofeach candidate.
The relaxation methods mentioned at theend of the last section come into use here.
Consider theshape values.
The goal is to see if the ROUND shapespecified in the speaker's description is similar to theshape values of each candidate.
Generate-Similar-Shape-Values determines that it is reasonable to match ROUNDto either the CYLINDRICAL or HEMISPHERICAL shapesof the AIRCHAMBER by examining the taxonomy shownin Figure 21 and noting that both shapes are belowROUND and 3D-ROUND.
Notice that it is less reasonableto match CYLINDRICAL to HEMISPHERICAL since theyare in different branches of the taxonomy.
This holdsequally true for the CYLINDRICAL shapes of theMAINTUBE and the STAND.
Generate-Similar-Color-Values next tries relaxing the Color TURQUOISE.
Theassertions Similar-Color("BLUE","TURQUOISE") 4- andSimilar-Color("GREEN","TURQUOISE")--- are found asrules containing TURQUOISE.
The colors BLUE andGREEN are, thus, the best alternates.
Here only two clearwinners exist - the AIRCHAMBER and the STAND -while the MAINTUBE is dropped as a candidate since it isreasonable to relax TURQUOISE to BLUE or to GREENbut not to VIOLET.
Subpart, Transparency, Analogical-Shape, and Composition provide no further help (thoughthe fact that the AIRCHAMBER has both CLEAR andOPAQUE subparts could be used to put it slightly lowerthan the STAND whose subparts are all CLEAR.
Thisdifference, however, is not significant.).
This leaves trialand error attempts to try to complete the FIT action spec-ified in DeserE.
The one (if any) that fits - and fitsloosely - is selected as the referent.
The protocolsshowed that people often do just that - reducing their setof choices as best they can and then taking each of theremaining choices and trying out the requested action onthem.4.4 THE ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATIONThe goal of our actual implementation of the referenceand miscommunication mechanism was to provide asimulation of such a module in the context of a naturallanguage system.
We did not use an actual parser orsemantic interpreter but assumed that we started withoutput expected from them.
Such output was a represen-tation in KL-One of the semantic interpretation of adescription of an object in the water pump domain.
Wealso built in KL-One a network of approximately 250concepts to represent many of the water pump parts andtheir physical and functional features.
A focus mech-anism was simulated by a menu-driven routine that parti-tioned the network representation f the world to reflectfocus spaces of referent candidates.
We built a KL-Onepartial matcher and a network explorer to look for feasi-ble referent candidates in the network.
Finally, we wroteup a small batch of relaxation rules to test out our mech-anism.5 CONCLUSIONSThis paper had four objectives:?
to illustrate how complex reference really is;?
to show that previous referent identification paradigmsdon't suffice, given real world data;?
to isolate numerous kinds of knowledge people use forreference resolution; and?
to augment current reference algorithms to handlemore real descriptions.In this section, we provide a summary of our findings andpresent some reasonable future directions of this work.5.1 SUMMARYOur goal in this work is to build robust natural anguageunderstanding systems, allowing them to detect and avoidmiscommunication.
The goal is not to make a perfectlistener but to make a more tolerant one that could avoidmany mistakes, though it may still be wrong on occasion.In this paper, we introduced a taxonomy of miscommuni-cation problems that occur in expert-apprenticedialogues.
We showed that reference mistakes are onekind of obstacle to robust communication.
To tacklereference errors, we described how to extend thesucceed/fail paradigm followed by previous naturallanguage researchers.We represented real world objects hierarchically in aknowledge base using a representation language,KL-One, that follows in the tradition of semanticnetworks and frames.
"In such a representation frame-work, the reference identification task looks for a refer-ent by comparing the representation of the speaker'sinput to elements in the knowledge base by using amatching procedure.
Failure to find a referent in previousreference identification systems resulted in the unsuc-cessful termination of the reference task.
We claim thatpeople behave better than this and explicitly illustrated302 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failuressuch cases in an expert-apprentice domain about toywater pumps.We developed a theory of relaxation for recoveringfrom reference failures that provides a much better modelfor human performance.
When people are asked to iden-tify objects, they behave in a particular way: find candi-dates, adjust as necessary, re-try, and, if necessary, giveup and ask for help.
We claim that relaxation is an inte-gral part of this process and that the particular parame-ters of relaxation differ from task to task and person toperson.
Our work models the relaxation process, andprovides a computational model for experimenting withthe different parameters.
The theory incorporates thesame language and physical knowledge that people use inperforming reference identification to guide the relaxa-tion process.
This knowledge is represented as a set ofruies and as data in a hierarchical knowledge base.
Rule-based relaxation provided a methodical way to use know-ledge about language and the world to find a referent.The hierarchical representation made it possible to tackleissues of imprecision and over-specification in a speaker'sdescription.
It allows one to check the position of adescription in the hierarchy and to use that position tojudge imprecision and over-specification and to suggestpossible repairs to the description.Interestingly, one would expect that "closest" matchwould suffice to solve the problem of finding a referent.We showed, however, that it doesn't usually provide youwith the correct referent.
Closest match isn't sufficientbecause there are many features associated with anobject and, thus, determining which of those features tokeep and which to drop is a difficult problem due to thecombinatorics and the effects of context.
The relaxationmethod described circumvents the problem by using theknowledge that people have about language and thephysical world to prune the search space.We feel this research's implications for computationallinguistics has to do primarily with the pragmatics ofreference.
In the past, when the logical form representingthe speaker's description failed to denote a referent inthe world, reference systems either failed or requestedanother possible logical form (i.e., they performed back-tracking).
We modify the reference architecture toperform non-equivalence transformations on the logicalform to generate new ones using pragmatics.5.2.
FUTURE DIRECTIONSThis paper mentioned only a small aspect of what needsto be done with miscommunication.
There are muchbroader problems that we also want to address.
Wealluded in the paper to problems due to metonomy - theuse of the name of one thing for that of another - butnever r~ally tried in this work to handle more than a fewspecial cases of it.
Consider the three descriptionsbelow.
23 Notice how the noun phrase the window refers tothree different hings in each utterance.The window was broken.
(the glass)The window was boarded up.
(the opening)Open the window.
(the glass/frame inset)Any reasonable reference mechanism must be able todistinguish such differences.We neglected to discuss the effect of quantifiers in adescription and how they affect the relaxation mech-anism.
A numerical quantifier could be specified that isincorrect; for example, two pegs when only one is found.Vague quantifiers uch as a bit, a few, or a piece can bepart of a description.
Measurements like a liter o f  beer ora pound of  chicken could also be used.
A listener can esti-mate measurements when looking for the referent or bevery precise and measure them.
In all these examples, therelaxation of the quantifier could be required before areferent can be found.
Our relaxation mechanism couldbe extended to handle many of these examples.The FWIM reference identification system we devel-oped models the reference process by the classificationoperation of KL-One.
We need a more complicatedmodel for reference.
That model might need a completeidentification plan that requires making inferencesbeyond those provided by classification.
The model couldalso require the execution of a physical action by thelistener before determining the proper referent.
Cohen(1984:101) gives two excellent examples of such refer-ence plans.
The first, "the magnetic screwdriver,please," requires the listener to place various screwdriv-ers against metal to determine which is magnetic.
Thesecond, "the three two-inch long salted green noodles"requires the listener to count, examine, measure and tasteto discover the proper referent.The FWlM reference system uses relaxation rules tocompile knowledge source information.
These rulesprovide a convenient forum for evaluating a descriptionwith respect o language and physical knowledge aboutthe world.
However, reasoning mechanisms that "think"about these knowledge sources sh~ould really replace therules and become part of the negotiation process.There are also miscommunication problems that areoutside of the reference area.
We need to consider fullutterances and the associated iscourse in which theyappear.
Utterances can be imprecise or ill-formed withrespect to the current discourse.
The goals specified by aspeaker through a particular utterance or discourse couldbe confused.
For example, a speaker's requested goalcould be outside the scope of the domain being discussed.We believe that our model will help solve the problem forthis bigger picture.
In particular, we feel the negotiationmethod will be important here, too.
The negotiationprocess will become part of the plan recognition sectionof a natural anguage system.
There a search of the planspace for the set of plans that might fit the utterance orsequence of utterances would be performed.
A relaxationcomponent related in style to the one outlined in thispaper could be invoked to provide an orderly relaxationof the speaker's utterances to fit the plans and theComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 303Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification Failuresdomain world.
This process will require more interactionwith the speaker through the use of clarificationdialogues.AKNOWLEDGMENTSI want especially to thank Candy Sidner for her insightfulcomments and suggestions during the course of thiswork.
I 'd also like to acknowledge the helpful commentsof George Hadden, Diane Litman, Marie Macaisa,Remko Scha, Marc Vilain, Dave Waltz, Bonnie Webber,and Bill Woods on this paper.
Special thanks also to PhilCohen, Scott Fertig, and Kathy Starr for providing mewith their water pump dialogues and for their invaluableobservations on them.
I would also like to thank thereviewers for their valuable comments.REFERENCESAgin, Gerald J.
1979 Hierarchical Representation f Three-Dimension-al Objects Using Verbal Models.
Technical Note 182, SRI Interna-tional, Menlo Park, California.Allen, James F. 1979 A Plan-Based Approach to Speech Act Recogni-tion.
D.Phil.
dissertation, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.Alien, James F.; Frisch, Alan M.; and Litman, Diane J.
1982 ARGOT:The Rochester Dialogue System.
In Proceedings of AAAI-82, Pitts-burgh, Pennsylvania: 66-70.Appelt, Douglas E. 1981 Planning Natural Language Utterances toSatisfy Multiple Goals.
D.Phil.
dissertation, Stanford University,Palo Alto, California.Brachman, Ronald J.
1977 A Structural Paradigm for RepresentingKnowledge.
D.Phil.
dissertation, Harvard University, Cambridge,Massachusetts.
Also, Technical Report No.
3605, Bolt Beranek andNewman Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.Brown, John Seely and VanLehn, Kurt.
1980 Repair Theory: A Gener-ative Theory of Bugs in Procedural Skills.
Cognitive Science 4(4):379-426.Burling, R. 1970 Man's Many Voices: Language in its Cultural Context.Holt, Rinehart and Winston, New York, New York.Carberry, Mary Sandra.
1985 Pragmatic Modeling in InformationSystem Interfaces.
D.Phil.
dissertation, University of Delaware,Newark, Delaware.Clark, Herbert H. and Clark, Eve V. 1977 Psychology and Language.Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Inc., New York, New York.Cohen, Philip R. 1978 On Knowing What to Say: Planning SpeechActs.
D.Phil.
dissertation, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.Cohen, Philip R. 1981 The need for Referent Identification as aPlanned Action.
In: Proceedings of 1JCA1-81, Vancouver, B.C., Cana-da: 31-35.Cohen, Philip R. 1984 The Pragmatics of Referring and the Modality ofCommunication.
Computational Linguistics 10(2): 97-146.Cohen, Philip R.; Fertig, Scott; and Starr, Kathy.
1982 Dependenciesof Discourse Structure on the Modality of Communication: Tele-phone vs. Teletype.
In Proceedings of ACL, Toronto, Ont., Canada:28-35.Cohen, P.; Perrault, C.; and Allen, J.
1981 Beyond Question Answer-ing.
In: Lehnart, W. and Ringle, M., Eds., Strategies for NaturalLanguage Processing.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, NewJersey.Gentner, Dedre.
1980 The Structure of Analogical Models in Science.Report 4451, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massa-chusetts.Goodman, Bradley A.
1981 The Representation f Three-DimensionalObjects.
Unpublished manuscript, KRNL Group Working Paper,Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.Goodman, Bradley A.
1982 Miscommunication i Task-OrientedDialogues.
Unpublished manuscript, KRNL Group Working Paper,Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.Goodman, Bradley A.
1984 Communication and Miscommunication.D.Phil.
dissertation, University of Illinois, Urbana, I1.
To appear asa book in the Association of Computational Linguistics eries ofCambridge University Press, London, England.Grice, H. P. 1975 Logic and Conversation.
In Cole, P. and Morgan, J.,Eds., Syntax and Semantics.
Academic Press, New York, New York:41-58.Grosz, Barbara J.
1977 The Representation a d Use of Focus inDialogue Understanding.
D.Phil.
dissertation, University of Califor-nia, Berkeley, California.
Also, Technical Note 151, StanfordResearch Institute, Menlo Park, California.Grosz, Barbara J.
1978 Focusing in Dialog.
In Theoretical Issues inNatural Language Processing-2.
Urbana, Illinois: 96-103.Grosz, Barbara J.
1981 Focusing and descriptions in natural anguagedialogues.
In Joshi, Webber, and Sags, Eds., Elements of DiscourseUnderstanding.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England:84-105.Hoeppner, W.; Christaller, T.; Marburger, H.; Morik, K.; Nebel, B.;O'Leary, M.; and Wahlster, W. t983 Beyond Domain-lndepen-dence: Experience with the Development of a German LanguageAccess System to Highly Diverse Background Systems.
InProceedings of IJCAI-83, Karlsruhe, West Germany: 588-594.Lipkis, Thomas.
1982 A KL-One Classifier.
In Proceedings of the 1981KL-One Workshop.
Jackson, New Hampshire: 128-145.
Report No.4842, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.Also Consul Note #5, USC/Information Sciences Institute, October1981.Litman, Diane.
1983 Discourse and Problem Solving.
Report No.5338, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.Also, TR130, University of Rochester, Department of ComputerScience, Rochester, New York.Litman, Diane J.
1985 Plan Recognition and Discourse Analysis: AnIntegrated Approach for Understanding Dialogues.
D.Phil.
disserta-tion, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York.
Also, TR 170,University of Rochester, Dept.
of Computer Science, Rochester,New York.Litman, Diane J. and Allen, James F. 1984 A Plan Recognition Modelfor Clarification Subdialogues.
In Proceedings of Coling84.
StanfordUniversity, Stanford, California: 302-311.Mark, William.
1982 Realization.
In Proceedings of the 1981 KL-OneWorkshop.
Jackson, New Hampshire: 78-89.
Report No.
4842, BoltBeranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.McCoy, Kathleen F. 1985a The Role of Perspective in Responding toProperty Misconceptions.
In Proceedings of IJCAI-85.
Los Angeles:791-793.McCoy, Kathleen F. 1985b Correcting Object-Related Misconceptions.D.Phil.
dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Penn-sylvania.
Also, MS-CIS-85-57, University of Pennsylvania, Depart-ment of Computer and Information Science, Philadelphia,Pennsylvania.McDonald, David D. and Conklin, E. Jeffery.
1982 Salience as aSimplifying Metaphor for Natural Language Generation.
InProceedings of AAAI-82.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania: 75-78.McKeown, Kathleen R. 1983 Recursion in Text and Its Use inLanguage Generation.
In Proceedings of AAAI-83.
Washington, D.C.:270-273.Perrault, C. Raymond and Cohen, Philip R. 1981 It's for your OwnGood: a Note on Inaccurate Reference.
In Joshi, Webber, and Sags,Eds., Elements of Discourse Understanding.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, England: 217-230.Polanyi, Livia 1978 False Starts Can Be True.
In Proceedings ofFourth Annual Meeting of Berkeley Linguistics Society.
University ofCalifornia, Berkeley, California: 628-639.Polanyi, Livia and Scha, Remko.
1984 A Syntactic Approach toDiscourse Semantics.
In Proceedings of Coling84.
Stanford Universi-ty, Stanford, California: 413-419.Pollack, Martha E. 1986 Inferring Domain Plans in Question-Answer-ing.
D.Phil.
dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,Pennsylvania.
Also, Report MS-CS-86-40 of the Department ofComputer and Information Science, University of Pennsylvania.Reichman, Rachel.
1978 Conversational Coherency.
Cognitive Science2(4): 283-327.304 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986Bradley A. Goodman Reference Identification and Reference Identification FailuresReichman, Rachel.
1981 Plain Speaking: A Theory and Grammar ofSpontaneous Discourse.
D.Phil.
dissertation, Harvard University,Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Also, Technical Report No.
4861, BoltBeranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.Ringle, Martin and Bruce, Bertram.
1981 Conversation Failure.
InLehnart, W. and Ringle, M., Eds., Strategies for Natural LanguageProcessing.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, 1~ew Jersey.Sidner, Candace Lee.
1979 Towards a Computational Theory of Defi-nite Anaphora Comprehension i  English Discourse.
D.Phil.
disser-tation, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,Massachusetts.
Also, Report No.
TR-537, M1T AI Lab, Cambridge,Massachusetts.Sidner, Candace L. 1985 Plan Parsing for Intended Response Recogni-tion in Discourse.
Computational Intelligence 1(1): 1-10.Sidner, C. L., and Israel, D.J.
1981 Recognizing Intended Meaning andSpeaker's Plans.
In Proceedings of IJCAI-81, Vancouver, B.C.
: 203-208.Sidner, C. L.; Bates, M.; Bobrow, R. J.; Braehman, R. J.; Cohen, P. R.;Israel, D. J.; Schmolze, J.; Webber, B. L.; and Woods, W. A.
1981Research in Knowledge Representation for Natural LanguageUnderstanding.
Report No.
4785, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.,Cambridge, Massachusetts.Sidner, C. L.; Bates, M.; Bobrow, R.; Goodman, B.; Haas, A.; Ingria,R.
; Israel, D.; McAllester, D.; Moser, M.; Schmolze, J.; and Vilain,M.
1983 Research in Knowledge Representation for NaturalLanguage Understanding - Annual Report, 1 September 1982 - 31August 1983.
Technical Report 5421, BBN Laboratories Inc.,Cambridge, Massachusetts.Tversky, A.
1977 Features of Similarity.
Psychological Review 84: 327-352.Webber, Bonnie Lynn.
1978 A Formal Approach to Discourse Anapho-ra.
D.Phil.
dissertation, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachu-setts.
Also, Technical Report No.
3761, Bolt Beranek and NewmanInc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.Whorf, Benjamin Lee.
1956 Language, Thought, and Reality.
The MITPress, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Winograd, Terry.
1971 Procedures as a Representation for Data in aComputer Program for Understanding Natural Language.
D.Phil.dissertation, Massachusetts Institute of Technology: Cambridge,Massachusetts.
Also, Report No.
TR-84, Project MAC, MIT,Cambridge, Massachusetts.Woods, W.A.
; Kaplan, R.M.
; and Nash-Webber, B.L.
1972 The LunarSciences Natural Language Information System: Final Report.
BBNReport 2378, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massa-chusetts.NOTES1.
This research was supported in part by the Advanced ResearchProjects Agency of the Department of Defense and was monitoredby ONR under Contract No.
N00014-77-C-0378 andN00014-85-C-0079.
The views and conclusions contained in thisdocument are those of the author and should not be interpreted asnecessarily representing the official policies, either expressed orimplied, of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency orthe U.S. Government.2.
We will call these errors misreference.3.
An analysis of clarification subdialogues can be found in Litmanand Allen 1984, Litman 1985.4.
Of course, there are some situations - such as teaching - wherethe hearer would be more willing to tolerate overspecificdescriptions.5.
Chamber was interpreted here in a broader sense by the listenerbecause it was used right at the beginning of the dialogue.
Thiswas before the speaker introduced other terms, such as tube, thatwould have helped distinguish the pieces better.
The exampledemonstrates how discourse affects reference.6.
The whole word here is plastic.
In these protocols, people oftenguess before hearing the whole utterance or even whole words.7.
Grosz (1977, 1981) would describe this as a difference in "taskplans" while Reichman (1978, 1981) would say that the"communicative goals" differed.8.
Here we assume that either the speaker and the hearer have ashared perceptual context or the speaker has an extensive model ofthe heater's perceptual context.9.
For example, Burling (1970) and Clark (1977) contrasted vocabu-lary in Garo, a language spoken in Burma, with English.
Burlingfound that some words in English were accounted for in Garo bymany words.
The word rice was represented in Garo by differentnames for "husked", "unhusked", "cooked", "uncooked", andother forms of rice.
Distinguishing the object types referred to bysuch specialized names would be more difficult for non-Burmese.Whorl  (1956) found similar results in his studies.10.
Other descriptions such as the second one from the left are usableonly when the speaker and listener are sharing the same perceptualview.
Even when the same view is shared, the underlying task mayalso affect whether such a description is sufficient.
For example, ifthe speaker is trying to teach an instructable robot how to performa task, then a description such as the second one from the left maynot be properly generalized by the robot for use in future percep-tual views of the world.11.
We want to thank one of the reviewers for this example.12.
In more complex domains - such as ones requiring tools - theactions themselves may be helpful both in finding the referent andin confirming whether the choice was correct.
For example, if alistener is told to use a screwdriver to screw one object ontoanother, the listener would expect o find threads on the object.13.
Note that the postcondition need not always be specified explicitlysince some posteonditions automatically come with an action.
Ifthe speaker said the utterance fit the red gizmo into the bottom sideoutlet of the main tube, the listener would expect hat the red gizmowould fit snugly into the outlet.
If, however, it fit loosely, than thelistener may feel a mistake has occurred.14.
We have only written rules for focus so far.15.
Of course, once one particular candidate is selected, then decidingwhich features to relax is relatively trivial - one simply comparesfeature by feature between the candidate description (the target)and the speaker's description (the pattern) and notes any discrep-ancies.16.
These interruptions are more typical of spoken rather than writtenlanguage.17.
Actually the orderings are not necessarily partial since it is possi-ble within one knowledge source to have conficting relaxationrules - i.e., one says relax feature ft before feature f2 and the othersays the opposite.
We get around this problem by splitting theknowledge source ordering into two or more orderings that arepartial.18.
The topological distance of a feature f in a feature ordering F. isJdetermined by counting how far f is from the nearest start node inF;  A start node is a node that has no links coming into it but canhave links coming out of it.
Distance is then measured by countingthe links between f and the start node.19.
The latter case is there primarily for the times when one can't easi-ly define a similarity metric for a feature.
McCoy (1985a) andTversky (1977) provide additional discussions about similaritymetrics.20.
We are stretching the definition of KL-One here with the dottedsubsumption arrow.
The point we want to make is thatAIRCHAMBER is similar to DeserA because their descriptions arealmost exactly the same.21.
Since DeserB refers to MAINTUBE, MAINTUBE could be droppedas a potential referent candidate for DeserC.
We will, however,leave it as a potential candidate to  make this example morecomplex.
CAP could also be considered, but it is dropped since itwas already eliminated by DeserA and it does not contain anysubparts.22.
The partial matcher scores are numerical scores computed from aset of role scores that indicate how well each feature of the twodescriptions match.
Those feature scores are represented on ascale: {+}, {> or <}, {=}, {?
}, {-}.
+ is the highest and - is thelowest score.
> and < have the same score but the algorithm candistinguish between them.23.
These examules were suggested to me by Bonnie Webber.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 305
