THE FINITE STRING NEWSLETTERSITE REPORTANOTHER FROM THE DARPA SERIES(SEE VOLUME 12, NUMBER 2)OVERVIEW OF THE TACITUS PROJECTJerry R. HobbsArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI InternationalResearchers: John Bear, William Croft, Todd Davies,Douglas Edwards, Jerry Hobbs, Kenneth Laws,Paul Martin, Fernando Pereira, Raymond Perrault,Stuart Shieber, Mark Stickel, Mabry TysonAIMS OF THE PROJECTThe specific aim of the TACITUS project is to developinterpretation processes for handling casualty reports(casreps), which are messages in free-flowing text aboutbreakdowns of machinery.
These interpretation proc-esses will be an essential component, and indeed theprincipal component, of systems for automatic messagerouting and systems for the automatic extraction of infor-mation from messages for entry into a data base or anexpert system.
In the latter application, for example, it isdesirable to be able to recognize conditions in themessage that instantiate conditions in the antecedents ofthe expert system's rules, so that the expert system canreason on the basis of more up-to-date and more specificinformation.More broadly, our aim is to develop general proce-dures, together with the underlying theory, for usingcommonsense and technical knowledge in the interpreta-tion of written discourse.
This effort divides into fivesubareas:1. syntax and semantic translation,2.
commonsense knowledge,3.
domain knowledge,4.
deduction,5.
"local" pragmatics.Our approach in each of these areas is discussed in turn.SYNTAX AND SEMANTIC TRANSLATIONSyntactic analysis and semantic translation in theTACITUS project are being done by the DIALOGICsystem.
DIALOGIC has perhaps as extensive a coverageof English syntax as any system in existence, it producesa logical form in first-order predicate calculus, and it wasused as the syntactic component of the TEAM system.The principal addition we have made to the systemduring the TACITUS project has been a menu-basedcomponent for rapid vocabulary acquisition that allowsus to acquire several hundred lexical items in an after-noon's work.
We are now modifying DIALOGIC toproduce neutral representations instead of multiple read-ings for the most common types of syntactic ambiguities,including prepositional phrase attachment ambiguitiesand compound noun ambiguities.COMMONSENSE KNOWLEDGEOur aim in this phase of the project is to encode largeamounts of commonsense knowledge in first-order predi-cate calculus in a way that can be used for knowledge-based processing of natural language discourse.
Ourapproach is to define rich core theories of variousdomains, explicating their basic ontologies and structure,and then to define, or at least to characterize, variousEnglish words in terms of predicates provided by thesecore theories.
So far, we have alternated between work-ing from the inside out, from explications of the coretheories to characterizations of the words, and from theoutside in, from the words to the core theories.Thus, we first proceeded from the outside in by exam-ining the concept of wear, as in worn bearings, seeking todefine wear, and then to define the concepts we definedwear in terms of, pushing the process back to basicconcepts in the domains of space, materials, and force,among others.
We then proceeded from the inside out,trying to flesh out the core theories, of these domains, aswell as the domains of scalar notions, time, measure,orientation, shape, and functionality.
Then to test theadequacy of these theories, we began working from theoutside in again, spending some time defining, or charac-terizing, the words related to these domains that occurredin our target set of casreps.
We are now working fromthe inside out again, going over the core theories and thedefinitions with a fine-tooth comb, checking manually forconsistency and adequacy, and proving simple conse-quences of the axioms on the KADS theorem-prover.This work is described in Hobbs et alDOMAIN KNOWLEDGEIn all of our work we are seeking general solutions thatcan be used in a wide variety of applications.
This mayseem impossible for domain knowledge.
In our particularcase, we must express facts about the starting aircompressor of a ship.
It would appear difficult to employthis knowledge in any other application.
However, ourapproach makes most of our work, even in this area, rele-vant to many other domains.
We are specifying anumber of "abstract machines" or "abstract systems", inlevels, of which the particular device we must model is aninstantiation.
We define, for example, a closed produc-er-consumer system.
We then define a closed clean fluidproducer-consumer system as a closed producer-consumersystem with certain additional properties, and at onemore level of specificity, we define a pressurized lube-oilsystem.
The specific lube-oil system of the starting aircompressor, with all its idiosyncratic features, is then aninstantiation of the last of these.
In this way, when wehave to model other devices, we can do so by defining220 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986The FINITE STRING Newsletter Site Reportsthem to be the most specific applicable abstract machinethat has been defined previously, thereby obviating muchof the work of specification.
An electrical circuit, forexample, is also a closed producer-consumer system.DEDUCTIONThe deduction component of the TACITUS system is theKLAUS Automated Deduction System (KADS), devel-oped as part of the KLAUS project for research on theinteractive acquisition and use of knowledge throughnatural language.
Its principal inference operation isnonclausal resolution, with possible resolution operationsencoded in a connection graph.
The nonclausal repre-sentation eliminates redundancy introduced by translat-ing formulas to clause form, and improves readability aswell.
Special control connectives can be used to restrictuse of the formulas to either forward chaining or back-ward chaining.
Evaluation functions determine thesequence of inference operations in KADS.
At each step,KADS resolves on the highest-rated link.
The resolvent isthen evaluated for retention and links to the new formulaare evaluated for retention and priority.
KADS supportsthe incorporation of theories for more efficientdeduction, including deduction by demodulation, associa-tive and commutative unification, many-sorted unifica-tion, and theory resolution.
The last of these has beenused for efficient deduction using a sort hierarchy.
Itsefficient methods for performing some reasoning aboutsorts and equality, and the facility for ordering searchesby means of an evaluation function, make it particularlywell suited for the kinds of deductive processing requiredin a knowledge-based natural anguage system.LOCAL PRAGMATICSWe have begun to formulate a general approach toseveral problems that lie at the boundary betweensemantics and pragmatics.
These are problems that arisein single sentences, even though one may have to lookbeyond the single sentence to solve them.
The problemsare metonymy, reference, the interpretation of compoundnominals, and lexical and syntactic ambiguity.
All ofthese may be called problems in "local pragmatics".Solving them constitutes at least part of what the inter-pretation of a text is.
We take it that interpretation is amatter of reasoning about what is possible, and thereforerests fundamentally on deductive operations.
We haveformulated very abstract characterizations of thesolutions to the local pragmatics problems in terms ofwhat can be deduced from a knowledge base ofcommonsense and domain knowledge.
In particular, wehave devised a general algorithm for building anexpression from the logical form of a sentence, such thata constructive proof of the expression from the know-ledge base will constitute an interpretation of thesentence.
This can be illustrated with the sentence fromthe casrepsDisengaged compressor after lube oil alarm.To resolve the reference of alarm, one must proveconstructively the expression(3 x)alarm(x)To resolve the implicit relation between the two nouns inthe compound nominal lube oil alarm (where lube oil istaken as a multiword), one must prove constructivelyfrom the knowledge base the existence of some possiblerelation, which we may call nn, between the entitiesreferred to by the nouns:(3 x,y) alarm(x) A lube-oil(y) A nn(y,x)A metonymy occurs in the sentence in that after requiresits object to be an event, whereas the explicit object is adevice.
To resolve a metonymy that occurs when a pred-icate is applied to an explicit argument that fails to satisfythe constraints imposed by the predicate on its argument,one must prove constructively the possible existence ofan entity that is related to the explicit argument and satis-fies the constraints imposed by the predicate.
Thus, thelogical form of the sentence is modified to... A after(d,e) A q(e,x) A alarm(x) A ...and the expression to be proved constructively is(3 e) event(e) A q(e,x) /X alarm(x) A ...In the most general approach, nn and q are predicatevariables.
In less ambitious approaches, they can bepredicate constants, as illustrated below.These are very abstract and insufficiently constrainedformulations of solutions to the local pragmatics prob-lems.
Our further esearch in this area has probed in fourdirections.
(1) We have been examining various previousapproaches to these problems in linguistics and computa-tional linguistics, in order to reinterpret hem into ourframework.
For example, an approach that says theimplicit relation in a compound nominal must be one of aspecified set of relations, such as "part-of",  can becaptured by treating nn as a predicate constant and byincluding in the knowledge base axioms likeOt x,y) part-of(y,x) = nn(x,y)In this fashion, we have been able to characterizesuccinctly the most common methods used for solvingthese problems in previous natural language systems,such as the methods used in the TEAM system.
(2) We have been investigating constraints on themost general formulations of the problems.
There aregeneral constraints, such as the Minimality Principle,which states that one should favor the minimal solutionin the sense that the fewest new entities and relationsmust be hypothesized.
For example, the argument-rela-tion pattern in compound nominals, as in lube oilpressure, can be seen as satisfying the Minimality Princi-ple, since the implicit relation is simply the one alreadygiven by the head noun.
In addition, we are looking forconstraints that are specific to given problems.
Forexample, whereas whole-part compound nominals, likeregulator valve, .are quite common, part-whole compoundComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 221The FINITE STRING Newsletter Calls for Papers, Proposals, Pictures, Nominationsnominals eem to be quite rare.
This is probably becauseof a principle that says noun modifiers should furtherrestrict the possible reference of the noun phrase, andparts are common to too many wholes to perform thatfunction.
(3) A knowledge base contains two kinds of know-ledge, "type" knowledge about what kinds of situationsare possible, and "token" knowledge about what theactual situation is.
We are trying to determine which ofthese kinds of knowledge are required for each of thepragmatics problems.
For example, reference requiresboth type and token knowledge, whereas most if not allinstances of metonymy seem to require only type know-ledge.
(4) At the most abstract level, interpretation requiresthe constructive proof of a single logical expressionconsisting of many conjuncts.
The deduction componentcan attempt to prove these conjuncts in a variety oforders.
We have been investigating some of these possi-ble orders.
For example, one plausible candidate is thatone should work from the inside out, trying first to solvethe reference problems of arguments of predicationsbefore attempting to solve the compound nominal andmetonymy problems presented by those predications.
Inour framework, this is an issue of where subgoals for thededuction component should be placed on an agenda.IMPLEMENTATIONIn our implementation of the TACITUS system, we arebeginning with the minimal approach and building upslowly.
As we implement he local pragmatics oper-ations, we are using a knowledge base containing onlythe axioms that are needed for the test examples.
Thus,it grows slowly as we try out more and more texts.
Aswe gain greater confidence in the pragmatics operations,we will move more and more of the axioms from ourcommonsense and domain knowledge bases into thesystem's knowledge base.
Our initial versions of thepragmatics operations are, for the most part, fairly stand-ard techniques recast into our abstract framework.
Whenthe knowledge base has reached a significant size, we willbegin experimenting with more general solutions andwith various constraints on those general solutions.FUTURE PLANSIn addition to pursuing our research in each of the areasdescribed above, we will institute two new efforts nextyear.
First of all, we will begin to extend our work inpragmatics to the recognition of discourse structure.
Thisproblem is illustrated by the following text:Air regulating valve failed.Gas turbine engine wouldn't urn over.Valve parts corroded.The temporal structure of this text is 3-1-2; first thevalve parts corroded, and this caused the valve to fail,which caused the engine to not turn over.
To recognizethis structure, one must reason about causal relationshipsin the model of the device, and in addition one mustrecognize patterns of explanation and consequence in thetext.The second new effort will be to build tools fordomain knowledge acquisition.
These will be based onthe abstract machines in terms of which we are presentlyencoding our domain knowledge.
Thus, the systemshould be able to allow the user to choose one of a set ofabstract machines and then to augment it with variousparts, properties and relations.ACKNOWLEDGMENTThe TACITUS project is funded by the DefenseAdvanced Research Projects Agency under Office ofNaval Research contract N00014-85-C-0013, as part ofthe Strategic Computing program.REFERENCEHobbs, Jerry R.; Croft, William; Davies, Todd; Edwards, Douglas; andLaws, Kenneth 1986 Commonsense Metaphysics and LexicalSemantics.
In Proceedings, 24th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics.
New York (June): 231-240.CALLSFOR PAPERS, PROPOSALS, AND PICTURESFOR AWARD NOMINATIONSCALL FOR PAPERSFOURTH SYMPOSIUM ON EMPIRICAL FOUNDATION OFINFORMATION AND SOKI'WARE SCIENCES (EFISS)22-24 October 1986, Georgia Institute of Technology,Atlanta, GeorgiaThe purpose of the meeting is to explore subjects andmethods of scientific inquiry of common interest o infor-mation and software science, and to identify directions ofresearch that will benefit from the mutual interaction ofthe two fields.
The main theme of this symposium isempirical methods of evaluation of man-machine interfaces.Specific examples of relevant focal topics are: friendli-ness, portability, sensitivity, fidelity, integrity, fault-toler-ance, compatibility, modularity, and evolution ofman-machine interfaces; efficiency of interfaces ascommunication channels; evaluation of effects of errorpropagation through interfaces; modeling man-machineinterfaces.Contributed papers will be considered also on otheraspects of empiric foundations of information and soft-ware sciences such as methods of experimental design;measurement theory and techniques; empirical aws andtheories of information and software sciences; their vali-dation and verification; experimental data bases; andsoftware properties and their evaluation and measure-ment.All submitted papers will be refereed.
Those selectedwill be scheduled for presentation and published in theproceedings of the symposium.Abstracts of papers (at least 150 words long) are dueby 15 March 1986.
Authors will be notified of their222 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986
