TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCETHE EXTRACTION OF A MINIMUM SET OF SEMANTICPRIMITIVES FROM A MONOLINGUAL DICTIONARY ISNP-COMPLETEWithin the last 15 years, a variety of unsolved prob-lems of interest primarily to operations researchers,computer scientists, and mathematicians have beendemonstrated to be equivalent in the sense that asolution to any of them would yield a solution to aH ofthem.
This class of problems, known asNP-complete, contains many long-standing problemsof scheduling, routing, and resource allocation.
Thisnote contains a demonstration that a problem ofinterest to applied linguistics also belongs to this class- namely, the process of extracting a minimum set ofsemantic primitives from a monolingual dictionary isNP-complete, implying that the task is currentlycomputationally insoluble.A particular linguistic problem has found applied rele-vance in three areas: natural language comprehension,bilingual dictionary construction, and reading theory.The problem is that of maximally simplifying the cross-referential lexicon known as the dictionary.
For a varietyof purposes of those who wish to make dictionariescomputer eadable, the problem of finding a "base" setof semantic primitives from which other lexical entriesmay be defined has been of interest.
If, for example, aset of 60 lexical entries (each unwavering in semanticdenotation, connotation, intent, and content) could befound, out of which all other entries could be satisfactori-ly defined, then certain problems of circularity of defi-nition and of algorithmic complexity could be solved.Simiarly, the speed of construction of a truly"bidirectional" bilingual dictionary could be enhanced ifthose persons engaged in the construction were aware ofsuch a minum set of monolingual primitives.
This paperdemonstrates that, in general, such problems are compu-tationally intractable by virtue of their isomorphism to agroup of problems known as NP-complete.DEFINITIONS1.
A lexicon is a set.2.
The elements of a lexicon are called words.3.
A string is a sequence of words.4.
The string universe, X*, of a lexicon X is the set of allstrings composed of elements of X.5.
A language (over a lexicon, X) is a subset of X*.6.
Within a language, L, a definition of a word, w, issome string in L of words within the lexicon (exclud-ing w itself).
That is, a definition associates a stringwith the word being defined.7.
A dictonary for a lexicon X is a set of definitions uchthat each word in X is defined.8.
A directed graph G=(N,L)  consists of a set N ofnodes, together with a set L of ordered pairs ofelements of N.9.
In a graph G, a directed cycle is a sequence of nodes,(n 1, n 2 .
.
.
.
.
n K) in which each of the lines (ni, ni+t) aswell as (n K, n 1) is in L.DISCUSSION OF DEFINITIONSIt may appear backwards to define a language based onits words, since in agglutinating languages, for example,the determination of what is or is not a word is based onextensive prior knowledge of the language.
However,this notation is fairly common, which is the reason for itsadoption.
One might take the morpheme as the primaryelement rather than the word without loss of applicabilityof these remarks.Also, we might be tempted to define a sentence as astring contained in a given language, though such is notneeded here.Definition 6 excludes the possibility that a word mightappear within its own definition.
This restriction can berelaxed under certain circumstances.The problem of semantic reduction to a minimum setof lexical primitives may now be stated thusly: Given adictionary, we seek to rewrite that dictionary, substitutingdefinitions for words freely so as to minimize that portionof the lexicon occurring as members of defining strings.That is, what is the smallest number of words in the lexi-con such that all other words may be defined from thisselect set?Karp (1972) demonstrated that the problem"Feedback Vertex Set", FVS, is NP-complete.
\[For read-ers unfamiliar with the concept of NP-completeness,Garey and Johnson (1979) present an overview of thetopic.\] The following shows that our semantic reductionproblem is equivalent to FVS.
FVS is stated as follows byGarey and Johnson: Given a directed graph G=(N,L)and a positive integer k, is there a subset of N consistingof k or fewer nodes that contains at least one vertex fromevery directed cycle in G?To show the problems equivalent, we first note thatfor the sake of simplifying the dictionary we are notconcerned, per se, with the order of words within defin-ing strings.
That is, so long as we keep track of thisordering, it will not affect the ultimate size of the defin-ing lexicon.
Let D be a dictionary for the lexicon X. Wenow construct a directed graph G based upon D: let eachw in X be a node of G. Now for each w construct a lineleading from w to any word occurring in the string defin-ing w. The construction of G is now complete.We now observe that asking the question of the size ofthe smallest set of entries from which D may be recon-structed is computationally equivalent to asking whetheror not there is a set of k such entries (and re-asking this306 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986A SIMPLIFIED DICTIONARY WITH FIVE PRIMITIVESama = di ((di li zomir) tso (di li zomir) li) li tsoba + primitive +di + primitive +enig = di zomir ba (ba tso (d i l i  zomir) tso li)gala = (di li zomir) tso (di li zomir) liki = ba tso (di li zomir) tso lili + primitivetso + primitive +ub = di li zomirzomir + primitive +David P. DaileyDepartment  of PsychologyUniversity of A laskaFairbanks,  A laskaquestion for a new value of k).
Next, in redefining aword w, we may explore any path leading from w. If allsuch paths terminate in primitives, then w has beendefined in terms of primitives.
Yet, if any such pathreturns to w, then w has not been appropriate defined.We are therefore concerned with finding the smallest setof nodes that will "s top"  any directed cycle.
This isprecisely the problem of FVS.Example: Let D be given as follows:X = { ama,ba,di,enig,gala,ki, l i ,tso,ub,zomir}ama = d iga la l i t soba = li zomir ki enigdi = ub enig ki zomir ba tsoenig = d izomi r  bak igala = ubtsoub l iki = ba tso ub tso lili = ub ki di gala ba enigtso = ba zomir ki li galaub = di li zomirzomir = di gala ba tsoClearly, no human language would be representable bysuch a small dictionary; any larger lexicon, though, wouldnot be easily exemplif ied herein.
The transformation ofD to a directed graph is shown below.REFERENCESlGarey, M.R.
and Johnson, D.S.
1979 Computers and Intractability.W.H.
Freeman and Company, San Francisco, California.Karp, R.M.
1972 Reducibility among Combinatorial Problems.
InMiller, R.E.
and Thatcher, J.W., Eds., Complexity of ComputerComputations.
Plenum Press, New York, New York: 85-103.Technical Correspondence The Extraction of a Minimum Set of Semantic Primitives from a Monolingual Dictionary is NP-CompleteComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 4, October-December 1986 307
