ATTENTION,  INTENTIONS,  AND THE STRUCTURE OF  D ISCOURSEBarbara J. GroszArtificial Intelligence Center andCenter for the Study of Language and InformationSRI InternationalMenlo Park, CA 94025Candace  L.  S idnerBBN Laboratories Inc.Cambridge, MA 02238In this paper we explore a new theory of discourse structure that stresses the role of purpose andprocessing in discourse.
In this theory, discourse structure is composed of three separate but interre-lated components: the structure of the sequence of utterances (called the linguistic structure), a struc-ture of purposes (called the intentional structure), and the state of focus of attention (called theattentional state).
The linguistic structure consists of segments of the discourse into which the utter-ances naturally aggregate.
The intentional structure captures the discourse-relevant purposes,expressed in each of the linguistic segments as well as relationships among them.
The attentional stateis an abstraction of the focus of attention of the participants as the discourse unfolds.
The attentionalstate, being dynamic, records the objects, properties, and relations that are salient at each point of thediscourse.
The distinction among these components i  essential to provide an adequate xplanation ofsuch discourse phenomena as cue phrases, referring expressions, and interruptions.The theory of attention, intention, and aggregation of utterances i illustrated in the paper with anumber of example discourses.
Various properties of discourse are described, and explanations for thebehavior of cue phrases, referring expressions, and interruptions are explored.This theory provides a framework for describing the processing of utterances in a discourse.Discourse processing requires recognizing how the utterances of the discourse aggregate into segments,recognizing the intentions expressed in the discourse and the relationships among intentions, and track-ing the discourse through the operation of the mechanisms associated with attentional state.
Thisprocessing description specifies in these recognition tasks the role of information from the discourseand from the participants' knowledge of the domain.1 INTRODUCTIONThis paper presents the basic elements of a computa-tional theory of discourse structure that simpfifies andexpands upon previous work.
By specifying the basicunits a discourse comprises and the ways in which theycan relate, a proper account of discourse structureprovides the basis for an account of discourse meaning.An account of discourse structure also plays a centralrole in language processing because it stipulatesconstraints on those portions of a discourse to which anygiven utterance in the discourse must be related.An account of discourse structure is closely related totwo questions: What individuates a discourse?
Whatmakes it coherent?
That is, faced with a sequence ofutterances, how does one know whether they constitute asingle discourse, several (perhaps interleaved) discourses,or none?
As we develop it, the theory of discourse struc-ture will be seen to be intimately connected with twononlinguistic notions: intention and attention.
Attentionis an essential factor in explicating the processing ofutterances in discourse.
Intentions play a primary role inexplaining discourse structure, defining discourse coher-ence, and providing a coherent conceptualization of theterm "discourse" itself.Copyright 1986 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided thatthe copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
To copyotherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or  specific permission.0362-613X/86/030175-204503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, ~luly-September 1986 175Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseThe theory is a further development and integration oftwo lines of research: work on focusing in discourse(Grosz 1978a, 1978b, 1981) and more recent work onintention recognition in discourse (Sidner and Israel1981; Sidner 1983; 1985; Allen 1983, Litman 1985;Pollack 1986).
Our goal has been to generalize theseconstructs properly to a wide range of discourse types.Grosz (1978a) demonstrated that the notions of focusingand task structure are necessary for understanding andproducing task-oriented ialogue.
One of the maingeneralizations of previous work will be to show thatdiscourses are generally in some sense "task-oriented,"but the kinds of "tasks" that can be engaged in are quitevaried - some are physical, some mental, others linguis-tic.
Consequently, the term "task" is misleading; wetherefore will use the more general terminology ofintentions (e.g., when speaking of discourse purposes) formost of what we say.Our main thesis is that the structure of any discourse isa composite of three distinct but interacting components:?
the structure of the actual sequence of utterances in thediscourse;?
a structure of intentions;?
an attentional state.The distinction among these components i essential toan explanation of interruptions (see Section 5), as well asto explanations of the use of certain types of referringexpressions (see Section 4.2) and various otherexpressions that affect discourse segmentation and struc-ture (see Section 6).
Most related work on discoursestructure (including Reichman-Adar 1984, Linde 1979,Linde and Goguen 1978, Cohen 1983) fails to distin-guish among some (or, in some cases, all) of thesecomponents.
As a result, significant generalizations arelost, and the computational mechanisms proposed aremore complex than necessary.
By carefully distinguish-ing these components, we are able to account for signif-icant observations in this related work while simplifyingboth the explanations given and computational mech-anisms used.In addition to explicating these linguistic phenomena,the theory provides an overall framework within which toanswer questions about the relevance of varioussegments of discourse to one another and to the overallpurposes of the discourse participants.
Various proper-ties of the intentional component have implications forresearch in natural-language processing in general.
Inparticular, the intentions that underlie discourse are sodiverse that approaches to discourse coherence based onselecting discourse relationships from a fixed set of alter-native rhetorical patterns (e.g., Hobbs 1979, Mann andThompson 1983, Reichman 1981) are unlikely to suffice.The intentional structure introduced in this paperdepends instead on a small number of structural relationsthat can hold between intentions.
This study also revealsseveral problems that must be confronted in expandingspeech-act-related theories (e.g., Allen and Perrault1980, Cohen and Levesque 1980, Allen 1983) fromcoverage of individual utterances to coverage of extendedsequences of utterances in discourse.Although a definition of discourse must await furtherdevelopment of the theory presented in this paper, someproperties of the phenomena we want to explain must bespecified now.
In particular, we take a discourse to be apiece of language behavior that typically involves multi-ple utterances and multiple participants.
A discoursemay be produced by one or more of these participants asspeakers or writers; the audience may comprise one ormore of the participants as hearers or readers.
Becausein multi-party conversations more than one participantmay speak (or write) different utterances within asegment, the terms speaker and hearer do not differen-tiate the unique roles that the participants maintain in asegment of a conversation.
We will therefore use theterms initiating conversational participant (ICP) and otherconversational participant(s) (OCP) to distinguish the initi-ator of a discourse segment from its other participants.The ICP speaks (or writes) the first utterance of asegment, but an OCP may be the speaker of some subse-quent utterances.
By speaking of ICPs and OCPs, we canhighlight the purposive aspect of discourse.
We will usethe terms speaker and hearer only when the particularspeaking/hearing activity is important for the point beingmade.In most of this paper, we will be concerned withdeveloping an abstract model of discourse structure; inparticular, the definitions of the components will abstractaway f rom the details of the discourse participants.Whether one constructs a computer system that canparticipate in a discourse (i.e., one that is a languageuser) or defines a psychological theory of language use,the task will require the appropriate projection of thisabstract model onto properties of a language user, andspecification of additional details (e.g., specifying memo-ry for linguistic structure, means for encoding attentionalstate, and appropriate representations of intentionalstructure).
We do, however, address ourselves directly tocertain processing issues that are essential to the compu-tational validity of the \[abstract\] model and to its utiliza-tion for a language-processing system or psychologicaltheory.Finally, it is important o note that although discoursemeaning is a significant, unsolved problem, we will notaddress it in this paper.
An adequate theory of discoursemeaning needs to rest at least partially on an adequatetheory of discourse structure.
Our concern is with provid-ing the latter.The next section examines the basic theory ofdiscourse structure and presents an overview of each ofthe components of discourse structure.
Section 3analyzes two sample discourses - a written text and afragment of task-oriented ialogue - from the perspec-tive of the theory being developed; these two examplesare also used to illustrate various points in the remainderof the paper.
Section 4 investigates various processing176 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discourseissues that the theory raises.
The following two sectionsdescribe the role of the discourse structure componentsin explaining various properties of discourse, therebycorroborating the necessity of distinguishing among itsthree components.
Section 7 describes the generalizationfrom utterance-level to discourse-level intentions, estab-lishes certain properties of the latter, and contrasts themwith the rhetorical relations of alternative theories.Finally, Section 8 poses a number of outstandingresearch questions uggested by the theory.2 THE BASIC THEORYDiscourse structure is a composite of three interactingconstituents: a linguistic structure, an intentional struc-ture, and an attentional state.
These three constituentsof discourse structure deal with different aspects of theutterances in a discourse.
Utterances - the actual sayingor writing of particular sequences of phrases and clauses- are the linguistic structure's basic elements.
Intentionsof a particular sort and a small number of relationshipsbetween them provide the basic elements of the inten-tional structure.
Attentional state contains informationabout the objects, properties, relations, and discourseintentions that are most salient at any given :point.
It isan abstraction of the focus of attention of the discourseparticipants; it serves to summarize information fromprevious utterances crucial for processing subsequentones, thus obviating the need for keeping a completehistory of the discourse.Together the three constituents of discourse structuresupply the information eeded by the CPs to determinehow an individual utterance fits with the rest of thediscourse - in essence, enabling them to figure out why itwas said and what it means.
The context provided bythese constituents also forms the basis for certain expec-tations about what is to come; these expectations play arole in accommodating new utterances.
The attentionalstate serves an additional purpose: namely, it furnishesthe means for actually using the information in the othertwo structures in generating and interpreting individualutterances.2.1 LINGUISTIC STRUCTUREThe first component of discourse structure is the struc-ture of the sequence of utterances that comprise adiscourse.
1 Just as the words in a single sentence formconstituent phrases, the utterances in a discourse arenaturally aggregated into discourse segments.
The utter-ances in a segment, like the words in a phrase, serveparticular oles with respect o that segment.
In addition,the discourse segments, like the phrases, fulfill certainfunctions with respect o the overall discourse.
Althoughtwo consecutive utterances may be in the same discoursesegment, it is also common for two consecutive utter-ances to be in different segments.
It is also possible fortwo utterances that are nonconsecutive to be in the samesegment.The factoring of discourses into segments has beenobserved across a wide range of discourse types.
Grosz(1978a) showed this for task-oriented ialogues.
Linde(1979) found it valid for descriptions of apartments;Linde and Goguen (1978) describe such structuring inthe Watergate transcripts.
Reichman-Adar (1984)observed it in informal debates, explanations, and thera-peutic discourse.
Cohen (1983) found similar structuresin essays in rhetorical texts.
Polanyi and Scha (1986)discuss this feature of narratives.Although different researchers with different theorieshave examined a variety of discourse types and founddiscourse-level segmentation, there has been very littleinvestigation of the extent of agreement about where thesegment boundaries lie.
There have been no psycholog-ical studies of the consistency of recognition of sectionboundaries.
However, Mann (Mann et al 1975) askedseveral people to segment a set of dialogues.
He hasreported \[personal communication\] that his subjectssegmented the discourses approximately the same; theirdisagreements were about utterances at the boundaries ofsegments.
2 Several studies of spontaneously produceddiscourses provide additional evidence of the existence ofsegment boundaries, as well as suggesting some of thelinguistic cues available for detecting boundaries.
Chafe(1979, 1980) found differences in pause lengths atsegment boundaries.
Butterworth (1975) found speechrate differences that correlated with segments; speechrate is slower at start of a segment than toward the end.The linguistic structure consists of the discoursesegments and an embedding relationship that can holdbetween them.
As we discuss in Sections 2.2 and 5, theembedding relationships are a surface reflection ofrelationships among elements of the intentional structure.It is important o recognize that the linguistic structure isnot strictly decompositional.
An individual segment mayinclude a combination of subsegments and utterancesonly in that segment (and not members of any of itsembedded subsegments).
Both of the examples in Section3 exhibit such nonstrict decompositionality.
Because thelinguistic structure is not strictly decompositional, variousproperties of the discourse (most notably the intentionalstructure) are functions of properties of individual utter-ances and properties of segments.There is a two-way interaction between the discoursesegment structure and the utterances constituting thediscourse: linguistic expressions can be used to conveyinformation about the discourse structure; conversely,the discourse structure constrains the interpretation ofexpressions (and hence affects what a speaker says andhow a hearer will interpret what is said).
Not surprising-ly, linguistic expressions are among the primary indica-tors of discourse segment boundaries.
The explicit use ofcertain words and phrases (e.g., in the first place) andmore subtle cues, such as intonation or changes in tenseand aspect, are included in the repertoire of linguisticdevices that function, wholly or in part, to indicate theseComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 177Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discourseboundaries (Grosz 1978a, Reichman-Adar 1984, Cohen1983, Polanyi and Scha 1983, Hirschberg and Pierre-humbert 1986).
Reichman (1981) discusses ome wordsthat function in this way and coined the term clue words.We will use the term cue phrases to generalize on herobservation as well as many others because ach one ofthese devices cue the hearer to some change in thediscourse structure.As discussed in Section 6, these linguistic boundarymarkers can be divided according to whether they explic-itly indicate changes in the intentional structure or in theattentional state of the discourse.
The differential use ofthese linguistic markers provides one piece of evidencefor considering these two components to be distinct.Because these linguistic devices function explicitly asindicators of discourse structure, it becomes clear thatthey are best seen as providing information at thediscourse level, and not at the sentence level; hence,certain kinds of questions (e.g., about their contributionto the truth conditions of an individual sentence) do notmake sense.
For example, in the utterance Incidentally,Jane swims every day, the incidentally indicates an inter-ruption of the main flow of discourse rather than affect-ing in any way the meaning of Jane swims every day.Jane's swimming every day could hardly be fortuitous.Just as linguistic devices affect structure, so thediscourse segmentation affects the interpretation oflinguistic expressions in a discourse.
Referringexpressions provide the primary example of this effect.
3The segmentation of discourse constrains the use ofreferring expressions by delineating certain points atwhich there is a significant change in what entities(objects, properties, or relations) are being discussed.For example, there are different constraints on the use ofpronouns and reduced definite-noun phrases within asegment than across segment boundaries.
Whilediscourse segmentation is obviously not the only factorgoverning the use of referring expressions, it is an impor-tant one.2.2 INTENTIONAL STRUCTUREA rather straightforward property of discourses, namely,that they (or, more accurately, those who participate inthem) have an overall purpose, turns out to play a funda-mental role in the theory of discourse structure.
Inparticular, some of the purposes that underlie discourses,and their component segments, provide the means ofindividuating discourses and of distinguishing discoursesthat are coherent from those that are not.
Thesepurposes also make it possible to determine when asequence of utterances comprises more than onediscourse.Although typically the participants in a discourse mayhave more than one aim in participating in the discourse(e.g., a story may entertain its listeners as well asdescribe an event; an argument may establish a person'sbrilliance as well as convince someone that a claim orallegation is true), we distinguish one of these purposesas foundational to the discourse.
We will refer to it as thediscourse purpose (DP).
From an intuitive perspective, thediscourse purpose is the intention that underlies engagingin the particular discourse.
This intention provides boththe reason a discourse (a linguistic act), rather than someother action, is being performed and the reason theparticular content of this discourse is being conveyedrather than some other information.
For each of thediscourse segments, we can also single out one intention- the discourse segment purpose (DSP).
From an intuitivestandpoint, the DSP specifies how this segment contrib-utes to achieving the overall discourse purpose.
Theassumption that there are single such intentions will inthe end prove too strong.
However, this assumptionallows us to describe the basic theory more clearly.
Wemust leave to future research (and a subsequent paper)the exploration and discussion of the complications thatresult from relaxing this assumption.Typically, an ICP will have a number of different kindsof intentions that lead to initiating a discourse.
One kindmight include intentions to speak in a certain language orto utter certain words.
Another might include intentionsto amuse or to impress.
The kinds of intentions that canserve as discourse purposes or discourse segmentpurposes are distinguished from other intentions by thefact that they are intended to be recognized (cf.
Allenand Perrault 1980, Sidner 1985), whereas otherintentions are private; that is, the recognition of the DPor DSP is essential to its achieving its intended effect.Discourse purposes and discourse segment purposesshare this property with certain utterance-level intentionsthat Grice (1969) uses in defining utterance meaning(see Section 7).It is important to distinguish intentions that areintended to be recognized from other kinds of intentionsthat are associated with discourse.
Intentions that areintended to be recognized achieve their intended effectonly if the intention is recognized.
For example, acompliment achieves its intended effect only if the inten-tion to compliment is recognized; in contrast, a scream ofboo typically achieves its intended effect (scaring thehearer) without the hearer having to recognize the speak-er's intention.Some intention that is private and not intended to berecognized may be the primary motivation for an ICP tobegin a discourse.
For example, the ICP may intend toimpress someone or may plan to teach someone.
Inneither case is the ICP's intention necessarily intended tobe recognized.
Quite the opposite may be true in thecase of impressing, as the ICP may not want the OCP tobe aware of his intention.
When teaching, the ICP maynot care whether the OCP knows the ICP is teaching himor her.
Thus, the intention that motivates the ICP toengage in a discourse may be private.
By contrast, thediscourse segment purpose is always intended to berecognized.178 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseDPs and DSPs are basically the same sorts ofintentions.
If an intention is a DP, then its satisfaction is amain purpose of the discourse, whereas if it is a DSP,"then its satisfaction contributes to the satisfaction of theDP.
The following are some of the types of intentionsthat could serve as DP/DSPs, followed by one example ofeach type.1.
Intend that some agent intend to perform some phys-ical task.
Example: Intend that Ruth intend to f ix  theflat tire.2.
Intend that some agent believe some fact.
Example:Intend that Ruth believe the campfire has started.3.
Intend that some agent believe that one fact supportsanother.
Example: lntend that Ruth believe the smellof  smoke provides evidence that the campfire is started.4.
Intend that some agent intend to identify an object(existing physical object, imaginary object, plan,event, event sequence).
Example: Intend that Ruthintend to identify my bicycle.5.
Intend that some agent know some property of anobject.
Example: Intend that Ruth know that my bicy-cle has a flat tire.We have identified two structural relations that playan important role in discourse structure: dominance andsatisfaction-precedence.
An action that satisfies oneintention, say DSP1, may be intended to provide part ofthe satisfaction of another, say DSP2.
When this is thecase, we will say that DSP1 contributes to DSP2;conversely, we will say that DSP2 dominates DSP1 (orDSP2 DOM DSP1).
The dominance relation invokes apartial ordering on DSPs that we will refer to as the domi-nance hierarchy.
For some discourses, including task-or-iented ones, the order in which the DSPs are satisfiedmay be significant, as well as being intended to be recog-nized.
We will say that DSP1 satisfaction-precedes DSP2(or, DSP1 SP DSP2) whenever DSP1 must be satisfiedbefore DSP2.
4Any of the intentions on the preceding list could beeither a DP or a DSP.
Furthermore, a given instance ofany one of them could contribute to another, or to adifferent, instance of the same type.
For example, theintention that someone intend to identify some objectmight dominate several intentions that she or he knowsome property of that object; likewise, the intention toget someone to believe some fact might dominate anumber of contributing intentions that that personbelieve other facts.As the above list makes clear, the range of intentionsthat can serve as discourse, or discourse segment,purposes is open-ended (cf.
Wittgenstein 1953: para-graph 23), much like the range of intentions that underliemore general purposeful action.
There is no finite list ofdiscourse purposes, as there is, say, of syntactic atego-ries.
It remains an unresolved research question whetherthere is a finite description of the open-ended set of suchintentions.
However, even if there were finitedescriptions, there would still be no finite list ofintentions from which to choose.
Thus, a theory ofdiscourse structure cannot depend on choosing theDP/DSPs from a fixed list (cf.
Reichman-Adar 1984,Schank et al 1982, Mann and Thompson 1983), nor onthe particulars of individual intentions.
Although theparticulars of individual intentions, like a wide range ofcommon sense knowledge, are crucial to understandingany discourse, such particulars cannot serve as the basisfor determining discourse structure.What is essential for discourse structure is that suchintentions bear certain kinds of structural relationships toone another.
Since the CPs can never know the wholeset of intentions that,might serve as DP/DSPs, what theymust recognize is the relevant structural relationshipsamong intentions.
Although there is an infinite numberof intentions, there are only a small number of relationsrelevant to discourse structure that can hold betweenthem.In this paper we distinguish between the determinationof the DSP and the recognition of it.
We use the termdetermination to refer to a semantic-like notion, namely,the complete specification of what is intended by whom;we use the term recognition to refer to a processingnotion, namely, the processing that leads a discourseparticipant o identify what the intention is.
These areobviously related concepts; the same information thatdetermines a DSP may be used by an OCP to recognize it.However, some questions are relevant to only one ofthem.
For example, the question of when the informa-tion becomes available is not relevant o determinationbut is crucial to recognition.
An analogous distinctionhas been drawn with respect o sentence structure; theparse tree (determination) is differentiated from the pars-ing process (recognition) that produces the tree.2.3 ATTENTIONAL STATEThe third component of discourse structure, the atten-tional state, is an abstraction of the participants' focus ofattention as their discourse unfolds.
The attentional stateis a property of the discourse itself, not of the discourseparticipants.
It is inherently dynamic, recording theobjects, properties, and relations that are salient at eachpoint in the discourse.
The attentional state is modeledby a set of focus spaces; changes in attentional state aremodeled by a set of transition rules that specify theconditions for adding and deleting spaces.
We call thecollection of focus spaces available at any one time thefocusing structure and the process of manipulating spacesfocusing.The focusing process associates a focus space witheach discourse segment; this space contains those entitiesthat are salient - either because they have beenmentioned explicitly in the segment or because theybecame salient in the process of producing or compre-hending the utterances in the segmfnt (as in the originalwork on focusing: Grosz 1978a).
The focus space alsoincludes the DSP; the inclusion of the purpose reflects theComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 179Barbara J. Grosz and Candaee L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discoursefact that the CPs are focused not only on what they aretalking about, but also on why they are talking about it.To understand the attentional state component ofdiscourse structure, it is important not to confuse it withtwo other concepts.
First, the attentional state compo-nent is not equivalent o cognitive state, but is only oneof its components.
Cognitive state is a richer structure,one that includes at least the knowledge, beliefs, desires,and intentions of an agent, as well as the cognitive corre-'lates of the attentional state as modeled in this paper.Second, although each focus space contains a DSP, thefocus structure does not include the intentional structureas a whole.Figure 1 illustrates how the focusing structure, in addi-tion to modeling attentional state, serves during process-ing to coordinate the linguistic and intentional structures.The discourse segments (to the left of the figure) are tiedto focus spaces (drawn vertically down the middle of thefigure).
The focusing structure is a stack.
Information inlower spaces is usually accessible from higher ones (butless so than the information in the higher spaces); we usea line with intersecting hash marks to denote when this isnot the case.
Subscripted terms are used to indicate therelevant contents of the focus spaces because the spacescontain representations of entities (i.e., objects, proper-ties, and relations) and not linguistic expressions.Part one of Figure 1 shows the state of focusing whendiscourse segment DS2 is being processed.
Segment DS1gave rise to FS1 and had as its discourse purpose DSP I.The properties, objects, relations, and purpose repres-ented in FS1 are accessible but less salient than those inFS2.
DS2 yields a focus space that is stacked relative toFSl because DSP 1 of DSl dominates DS2's DSP, DSP 2.
Asa result of the relationship between FS1 and FS2, reducednoun phrases will be interpreted ifferently in DS2 thanin DS1.
For example, if some red balls exist in the worldone of which is represented in DS2 and another in FS1,then the red ball used in DS2 will be understood to meanthe particular red ball that is represented in DS2.
If,however, there is also a green truck (in the world) and itis represented only in FS1, the green truck uttered in DS2will be understood as referring to that green truck.Part two of Figure 1 shows the state of focusing whensegment DS3 is being processed.
FS2 has been poppedfrom the stack and FS3 has been pushed onto it becausethe DSP of DS3, DSP3, is dominated solely by DSP 1, notby DSP 2.
In this example, the intentional structureincludes only dominance relationships, although, it may,in general, also include satisfaction-precedence relation-ships.The stacking of focus spaces reflects the relative sali-ence of the entities in each space during the correspond-ing segment's portion of the discourse.
The stackrelationships arise from the ways in which the variousDSPs relate; information about such relationships isrepresented in the dominance hierarchy (depicted on theright in the figure).
The spaces in Figure 1 aresnapshotsillustrating the results of a sequence of operations, suchas pushes onto and pops from a stack.
A push occurswhen the DSP for a new segment contributes to the DSPfor the immediately preceding segment.
When the DSPcontributes to some intention higher in the dominancehierarchy, several focus spaces are popped from the stackbefore the new one is inserted.Two essential properties of the focusing structure arenow clear.
First, the focusing structure is parasitic uponthe intentional structure, in the sense that the relation-ships among DSPs determine pushes and pops.
Notehowever, that the relevant operation may sometimes beindicated in the language itself.
For example, the cueword first often indicates the start of a segment whoseDSP contributes to the DSP of the preceding segment.Second, the focusing structure, like the intentional andlinguistic structures, evolves as the discourse proceeds.None of them exists a priori.
Even in those rare cases inwhich an ICP has a complete plan for the discourse priorto uttering a single word, the intentional structure isconstructed by the CPs as the discourse progresses.
Thisdiscourse-time construction of the intentional structuremay be more obviously true for speakers and hearers ofspoken discourse than for readers and writers of texts,but, even for the writer, the intentional structure is devel-oped as the text is being written.Figure 1 illustrates some fundamental distinctionsbetween the intentional and attentional components ofdiscourse structure.
First, the dominance hierarchyprovides, among other things, a complete record of thediscourse-level intentions and their dominance (as wellas, when relevant, satisfaction-precedence) relationships,whereas the focusing structure at any one time can essen-tially contain only information that is relevant topurposes in a portion of the dominance hierarchy.Second, at the conclusion of a discourse, if it completesnormally, the focus stack will be empty, while the inten-tional structure will have been fully constructed.
Third,when the discourse is being processed, only the atten-tional state can constrain the interpretation of referringexpressions directly.We can now also clarify some misinterpretations offocus-space diagrams and task structure in our earlierwork (Grosz 1978a, 1981, 1974).
The focus-space hier-archies in that work are best seen as representing atten-tional state.
The task structure was used in two ways:1. to represent common knowledge about the task;2. as a special case of the intentional structure we positin this paper.Although the same representational scheme was used forencoding the focus-space hierarchies and the task struc-ture (partitioned networks: Hendrix 1979), the twostructures were distinct.180 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseDISCOURSE SEGMENTS FOCUSSPACESTACK DOMINANCE HIERARCHYf ~DS1DS2 ~,M,,tM m i .
lh  ,i.
/~ I l l .
/~ .
IW lDS3 a.JTEXT GIVESRISE TO FS2TEXT GIVE~ ,~% RISE TO FS1PROPERTIESOBJECTSRELATIONSDSP 2FS2PROPERTIESOBJECTSRELATIONSDSP 1FSlDSP 1 DOMINATES DSP 2(a)DISCOURSE SEGMENTS FOCUS SPACE STACK DOMINANCE HIERARCHY~ ' l  ~ TEXT GIVESDS1 ~.
~ RI E T F "~"-"~'* ~' .I S 0 S~DS2 ~,  ~ /?
- - ' -  \ T:X;T OF '>PROPERTIESOBJECTSRELATIONSDSP 3FS3PROPERTIESOBJECTSRELATIONSDSP 1FSlDSP 1 DOMINATES DSP 3DSP 1 DOMINATES DSP 2(b)Figure 1.
Discourse Segments, Focus Spaces and Dominance Hierarchy.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 181Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseSeveral researchers (e.g., Linde and Goguen 1978,Reichman-Adar 1984) misinterpreted the originalresearch in an unfortunate and unintended way: theytook the focus-space hierarchy to include (or be identicalto) the task structure.
The conflation of these two struc-tures forces a single structure to contain informationabout attentional state, intentional relationships, andgeneral task, knowledge.
It prevents a theory fromaccounting adequately for certain aspects of discourse,including interruptions (see Section 5).A second instance of confusion was to infer (incor-rectly) that the task structure was necessarily a prebuilttree.
If the task structure is taken to be a special case ofintentional structure, it becomes clear that the tree struc-ture is simply a more constrained structure than onemight require for other discourses; the nature of the taskrelated to the task-oriented iscourse is such that thedominance hier~irchy of the intentional structure of thedialogue has both dominance and satisfaction-precedencerelationships, 5 while other discourses may not exhibitsignificant precedence constraints among the DSPs.Furthermore, there has never been any reason to assumethat the task structures in task-oriented ialogues areprebuilt, any more than the intentional structure of anyother kind of discourses.
It is rather that one objective ofdiscourse theory (not a topic considered here, however)is to explain how the OCP builds up a model of the taskstructure by using information supplied in the discourse.However, it is important o note that conflating theaforementioned two roles of information about the taskitself (as a portion of general commonsense knowledgeand as a special case of intentional structure) was regret-table, as it fails to make an important distinction.Furthermore, as is clear when intentional structures areconsidered more generally, such a conflation of rolesdoes not allow for differences between what one knowsabout a task and one's intentions for (or what one makesexplicit in discourse about) performing a task.In summary, the focusing structure is the centralrepository for the contextual information eeded to proc-ess utterances at each point in the discourse.
It distin-guishes those objects, properties, and relations that aremost salient at that point and, moreover, has links torelevant parts of both the linguistic and intentional struc-tures.
During a discourse, an increasing amount of infor-mation, only some of which continues to be needed forthe interpretation of subsequent utterances, is discussed.Hence, it becomes more and more necessary to be ableto identify relevant discourse segments, the entities theymake salient, and their DSPs.
The role of attentionalstate in delineating the information ecessary for under-standing is thus central to discourse processing.3 Two EXAMPLESTo illustrate the basic theory we have just sketched, wewill give a brief analysis of two kinds of discourse: anargument from a rhetoric text and ~i task-orienteddialogue.
For each example we discuss the segmentationof the discourse, the intentions that underlie this segmen-tation, and the relationships among the various DSPs.
Ineach case, we point out some of the linguistic devicesused to indicate segment boundaries as well as some ofthe expressions whose interpretations depend on thoseboundaries.
The analysis is concerned with specifyingcertain aspects of the behavior to be explicated by atheory of discourse; the remainder of the paper providesa partial account of this behavior.3.1 AN ARGUMENTOur first example is an argument aken from a rhetorictdxt (Holmes and Gallagher 19176).
It is an example usedby Cohen (1983) in her work on the structure of argu-ments.
Figure 2 shows the dialogue and the eightdiscourse segments of which it is composed.
The divisionof the argument into separate (numbered) clauses isCohen's, but our analysis of the discourse structure isdifferent, since in Cohen's analysis, every utterance isdirectly subordinated to another utterance, and there isonly one structure to encode linguistic segmentation andthe purposes of utterances.
Although both analysessegment utterance (4) separately from utterances (1-3),some readers place this utterance in DS1 with utterances(1) through (3); this is an example of the kind of disa-greement about boundary utterances found in Mann'sdata (as discussed in Section 2.1).
The two placementslead to slightly different DSPs, but not to radically differ-ent intentional structures.
Because the differences do notaffect the major thrust of the argument, we will discussonly one segmentation.182 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscoursemDS0DS2$35DS6II .
_ _ .DS71.
The "mov ies"  are  so a t t rac t ive  to the great  Amer ican publ ic ,2. espec ia l ly  to young people ,3. that  it is t ime to take  care fu l  thought  about  the i r  e f fect  on mindand morals.4.
Ought any  parent  to permi t  his ch i ld ren  to a t tend  a moving p ic tureshow of ten or w i thout  being quite cer ta in  of the  show he permi tsthem to see?5.
No one can deny,  of course ,  that  g reat  educat iona l  and eth ica lgains may be made through the movies6.
because  of the i r  as ton ish ing  viv idness.7.
But the  impor tant  fac t  to be determined  is the to ta l  resu l t  ofcont inuous  and ind isc r iminate  a t tendance  on shows of th is  kind.8.
Can it be o ther  than  harmfu l?9.
In the f i rs t  p lace  the  character  of the p lays is seldom of thebest.10.
One has  only to read  the ever -present  "mov ie"  b i l lboard  to see howcheap,  me lodramat ic  and vu lgar  most of the photop lays  are.11.
Even the best  p lays,  moreover ,  are bound to be exc i t ing  andover -emot iona l .12.
Without spoken  words,  fac ia l  express ion  and gesture  must  car ry  themeaning:13. but  only s t rong  emot ion,  or bu f foonery  can  be represented  throughfacial  express ion  and gesture .14.
The more reasonab le  and quiet  aspects  of life are  necessar i l yneg lec ted .15.
How can  our  young people  dr ink  in th rough the i r  eyes  a cont inuousspectac le  of in tense  and s t ra ined  act iv i ty  and feel ing w i thoutharmfu l  e f fects?16.
Parents  and teachers  will do well to guard  the young aga ins tover indu lgence  in the tas te  for  the "movie" .Figure 2.
The Movies Essay.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 183Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseFigure 3 lists the primary component of the DSP foreach of these segments and Figure 4 shows the domi-nance relationships that hold among these intentions.
InSection 7 we discuss additional components of thediscourse segment purpose; because these additionalcomponents are more important for completeness of thetheory than for determining the essential dominance andsatisfaction-precedence relationships between DSPs, weomit such details here.
Rather than commit ourselves toa formal language in which to express the intentions ofthe discourse, we will use a shorthand notation andEnglish sentences that are intended to be a gloss for aformal statement of the actual intentions.IO: (IntendI1: (IntendI2: (Intend13: (Intend14: (Intend15: (IntendI6: (Intend17: (IntendICP (Believe OCP PO))where PO = the proposition that parents and teachers hould guard the youngfrom overindulgence in the movies.ICP (Believe OCP P1))where P1 = the proposition that it is time to consider the effect of movies onmind and morals.ICP (Believe OCP P2))where P2 = the proposition that young people cannot drink in through their eyesa continuous pectacle of intense and strained activity without harmful effects.ICP (Believe OCP P3))where P3 -- the proposition that it is undeniable that great educational andethical gains may be made through the movies.ICP (Believe OCP P4))where P4 = the proposition that although there are gains, the total result ofcontinuous and indiscriminate attendance at movies is harmful.ICP (Believe OCP P5))where P5 = the proposition that the content of movies (i.e., the character of theplays) is not the best.ICP (Believe OCP P6))where P6 = the proposition that the stories (i.e., the plays) in movies are excit-ing and over-emotional.ICP (Believe OCP P7))where P7 = the proposition that movies portray strong emotion and buffoonerywhile neglecting the quiet and reasonable aspects of life.Figure 3.
Primary intentions of the DSPs for Moviesessay.I0 DOM I1I0 DOM 1212 DOM 1312 DOM 1414 DOM 1514 DOM 1616 DOM 17Figure 4.
Dominance relationships for the DSPs of the Movies essay.184 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986~fBarbara J. Grosz and Candaee L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseAll the primary intentions for this essay are intentionsthat the reader (OCP) come to believe some proposition.Some of these propositions, such as P5 and P6, can beread off the surface utterances directly.
Other prop-ositions and the intemions of which they are part, such asP2 and 12, are moCe indirect.
Like the Gricean utter-ance'-level intentions (the analogy with these will beexplored in Section 7), DSPs may or may not be directlyexpressed in the discourse.
In particular, they may beexpressed in any of the following ways:1. explicitly as in I intend for  you to believe that it's timeto consider the effects o f  movies on mind and morals.\[which would produce I1 \]2. directly, in one utterance, as in (3) \[which doesproduce I 1 \]3. directly, through multiple utterances, as in using (7)and the utterance It can only be harmful to produce14,4.
by derivation, in one or more utterances with an associ-ated context, as in (15) to produce 12.Not only may information about the DSP be conveyedby a number of features of the utterances in a discourse,but it also may come in any utterance in a segment.
Forexample, although I0 is the DP, it is stated directly only inthe last utterance of the essay.
This leads to a number ofquestions about the ways in which OCPs can recognizediscourse purposes, and about those junctures at whichthey need to do so.
We turn to these matters directly inSubsection 4.1.This discourse also provides several examples of thedifferent kinds of interactions that can hold between thelinguistic expressions in a discourse and the discoursestructure.
It includes examples of the devices that may beused to mark overtly the boundaries between discoursesegments - examples of the use of aspect, mood, andparticular cue phrases - as well as of the use of referringexpressions that are affected by discourse segment boun-daries.The use of cue phrases to indicate discourse bounda-ries is illustrated in utterances (9) and (11); in (9) thephrase in the first place marks the beginning of DS5 whilein (11) moreover ends DS5 and marks the start of DS6.These phrases also carry information about the inten-tional structure, namely, that DSP5 and DSP6 are domi-nated by DSP4.
In some cases, cue phrases have multiplefunctions; they convey propositional content as well asmarking discourse segment boundaries..
The but in utter-ance (7) is an example of such a multiple function use.The boundaries between DS1 and DS2, DS4 and DS5,and DS4 and DS2 reflect changes of aspect and mood.The switch from declarative, present ense to interroga-tive modal aspect does not in itself seem to signal theboundary (for recognition purposes) in this discourseunambiguously, but it does indicate a possible line ofdemarcation which, in fact, is valid.The effect of segmentation on referring expressions ishown by the use of the generic noun phrase a movingpicture show in (4).
Although a reference to the movieswas made with a pronoun (their) in (3), a full nounphrase is used in (4).
This use reflects, and perhaps inpart marks, the boundary between the segments DS1 andDS2.Finally, this discourse has an example of the trade-offbetween explicitly marking a discourse boundary, as wellas the relationship between the associated DSPs, andreasoning about the intentions themselves.
There is noovert linguistic marker of the beginning of DS7; its sepa-ration must be inferred from DSP7 and its relationship toDSP6.3.2 A TASK-ORIENTED DIALOGUEThe second example is a fragment of a task-orienteddialogue taken from Grosz (1981; it is from the samecorpus that was used by Grosz 1974).
Figure 5 containsthe dialogue fragment and indicates the boundaries for itsmain segments.
7 Figure 6 gives the primary component ofthe DSPs for this fragment and shows the dominancerelationships between them.In contrast with the movies essay, the primary compo-nents of the DSPs in this dialogue are mostly intentions ofthe segment's ICP that the OCP intend to perform someaction.
Also, unlike the essay, the dialogue has twoagents initiating the different discourse segments.
In thisparticular segment, the expert is the ICP of DS1 and DS5,while the apprentice is the ICP of DS2-4.
To furnish acomplete account of the intentional structure of thisdiscourse, one must be able to say how the satisfaction ofone agent's intentions can contribute to satisfying theintentions of another agent.
Such an account is beyondthe scope of this paper, but in Section 7 we discffss someof the complexities involved in providing one (as well asits role in discourse theory).For the purposes of discussing this example, though,we need to postulate two properties of the relationshipsamong the participants' intentions.
These propertiesseem to be rooted in features of cooperative behaviorand depend on the two participants' haring some partic-ular knowledge of the task.
First, it is a shared beliefthat, unless he states otherwise, the OCP will adopt theintention to perform an action that the ICP intended himto.
Second, in adopting the intention to carry out thataction, the OCP also intends to perform whateversubactions are necessary.
Thus, once the apprentice,intends to remove the flywheel, he also commits himselfto the collateral intentions of loosening the setscrews andpulling the wheel off.
Note, however, that not all thesubactions need to be introduced explicitly into thediscourse.
The apprentice may do several actions that arenever mentioned, and the expert may assume that theseare being undertaken on the basis of other informationthat the apprentice obtains.
The partiality of the inten-tional structure stems to some extent from these charac-teristics of intentions and actions.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 185Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseDS1 (1)(2)(3)(4)DS2 (5)(S)(7)(B)(9)(10)(11)DS3 (12)(13)(14)(15)(16)(17)DS4 (18)(19)(z0)(zl)(zz)(z3)(24)(z5)E: F i rst  you have  to remove the f lywheel.A: How do I remove the f lywheel?E: F irst ,  loosen the  two al len head  setsc rewsho ld ing it to the shaft ,  then  pull it off.A: OK.I can only f ind one screw.
Where's  the o ther  one?E: On the  hub of the  f lywheel.A: That ' s  the one I found.
Where's  the o ther  one?E: About n inety  degrees  around the hub from the f i rs t  one.A: I don ' t  unders tand .
I can only f ind one.
Ohwait, yes  I th ink  I was on the  wrong wheel.E: Show me what  you are  doing.A: I was on the  wrong wheel and l can  f indthem both  now.The tool  I have  is awkward.
Is there  anothertool  that  I could use ins tead?E: Show me the  tool  you are  using.A: OK.E: Are you  sure  you are  us ing the r ight  s izekey?A: I'll t ry  some others .I found  an angle  I can  get at it.The two screws  are  loose,  but  I'm hav ing t roub leget t ing  the  wheel off.E: Use the whee lpu l le r "  Do you know how to useit?A: No.E: Do you know what  it looks  l ike?A: Yes.E: Show it to  me please.A: OK.E: Good, Loosen the  screw in the center  andp lace the jaws around the hub of thewheel, then  t ighten  the screw onto  thecenter  of the shaft .
The wheel shou ldsl ide off.Figure 5.
A segment of a task-oriented dialogue.As in the movies essay, some of the DSPs for thisdialogue are expressed directly in utterances.
Forinstance, utterances (1), (5), and (12) directly expressthe primary components of DSP1, DSP2 and DSP3,respectively.
The primary component of DSP4 is aderived intention.
The surface intention of but I'mhaving trouble getting the wheel off is that the apprenticeintends the expert o believe that the apprentice is havingtrouble taking off the flywheel.
14 is derived from theutterance and its surface intention, as well as fromfeatures of discourse, conventions about what intentionsare associated with the 1 am having trouble doing X type186of utterance, and what the 1CP and OCP know about thetask they have undertaken.The dominance relationship that holds between I1 and12, as well as the one that holds between I1 and 13, mayseem problematic at first glance.
It is not clear howlocating any single setscrew contributes to removing theflywheel.
It is even less clear how, in and of itself, identi-fying another tool does.
Two facts provide the link: first,that the apprentice (the OCP of DS1) has taken on thetask of removing the flywheel; second, that the appren-tice and expert share certain knowledge about the task.Some of this shared task knowledge comes from thediscourse per se \[e.g., utterance (3)\], but some of itComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discoursecomes from general knowledge, perceptual information,and the like.
Thus, a combination of information is rele-vant to determining 12 and 13 and their relationships toI1, including all of the following: the fact that I1 is partof the intentional structure, the fact that the apprentice iscurrently working on satisfying I1, the utterance-levelintentions of utterances (5) and (12), and general know-ledge about the task.The satisfaction-precedence relations among 12, 13,and 14 are not communicated irectly in the dialogue,but, like dominance relations, depend on domain know-ledge.
One piece of relevant knowledge is that a satisfac-tion precedence relation exists between loosening thesetscrews and pulling off the flywheel.
That relation isshared knowledge that is stated directly (First loosen ....then pull).
The relation, along with the fact that both 12and 13 contribute to loosening the setscrews, and that 14contributes to pulling off the flywheel, makes it possibleto conclude 13 SP 14 and 12 SP 14.
To conclude that 12SP 13, the apprentice must employ knowledge of how togo about loosening screw-like objects.The dominance and satisfaction-precedence relationsfor this task-oriented fragment form a tree of intentionsrather than just a partial ordering.
In general, however,for any fragment, task-oriented or otherwise, this is notnecessary.It is essential to notice that the intentional structure isneither identical to nor isomorphic to a general plan forremoving the flywheel.
It is not identical because a planencompasses more than a collection of intentions andrelationships between them (compare Pollack's (1986)critique of AI planning formalisms as the basis for infer-ring intentions in discourse).
It is not isomorphic becausethe intentional structure has a different substructure fromthe general plan for removing the flywheel.
In additionto the intentions arising from steps in the plan, the inten-tional structure typically contains DSPs corresponding tointentions generated by the particular execution of thetask and the dialogue.
For example, the general plan forthe disassembly of a flywheel includes subplans for loos-ening the setscrews and pulling off the wheel; it mightalso include subplans (of the loosening step) for findingthe setscrews, finding a tool with which to loosen thescrews, and loosening each screw individually.
However,this plan would not contain contingency subplans forwhat to do when one cannot find the screws or realizesthat the available tool is unsatisfactory.
Intentions I2 andI3 stem from difficulties encountered in locating andloosening the setscrews.
Thus, the intentional structurefor this fragment is not isomorphic to the general plan forremoving the flywheel.Utterance (18) offers another example of the differ-ence between the intentional structure and a general planfor the task.
This utterance is part of DS4 - not just partof DS1 - even though it contains references to more thanone single part of the overall task (which is what I1 isabout).
It functions to establish a new DSP, 14, as mostsalient.
Rather than being regarded as a report on theoverall status of the task, the first clause is best seen asmodifying the DSP.
8 With it, the apprentice tells theexpert that the trouble in removing the wheel is not withthe screws.
Thus, although general task knowledge isused in determining the intentional structure, it is notidentical to it.In this dialogue, there are fewer instances in which cuephrases are employed to indicate segment boundariesthan occur in the movies essay.
The primary example isthe use of f i rst  in (1) to mark the start of the segmentand to indicate that its DSP is the first of severalintentions whose satisfaction will contribute to satisfyingthe larger discourse of which they are a part.Primary Intentions:II" (Intend Exper t (Intend Apprentic e (Remove A flywheel)))I2: (Intend A (Intend E (Tell E A (Location other setscrew))))I3: (Intend A (Intend E (Identify E A another tool)))I4: (Intend A (Intend E (Tell E A (How (Getoff A wheel)))))I5: (Intend E (Know-How-to A (Use A wheelpuller)))Dominance Relationships:I1 DOM I2I1 DOM I3I1 DOM I4I4 DOM I5Satisfaction-Precedence Relationships:I2 SP I3I2 SP I4I3 SP I4Figure 6.
Intentional structure for the task-oriented dialogue segment.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 187Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseThe dialogue includes a clear example of the influenceof discourse structure on referring expressions.
Thephrase the screw in the center is used in (25) to refer tothe center screw of the wheelpuller, not one of the twosetscrews mentioned in (18).
This use of the phrase ispossible because of the attentional state of the discoursestructure at the time the phrase is uttered.4 PROCESSING ISSUESIn previous ections of the paper, we abstracted from thecognitive states of the discourse participants.
The variouscomponents of discourse structure discussed so far areproperties of the discourse itself, not of the discourseparticipants.
To use the theory in constructing computa-tional models requires determining how each of the indi-vidual components projects onto the model of anindividual discourse participant.
In this regard, the prin-cipal issues include specifying1.
how the ICP indicates and the OCP recognizes thebeginning and end of a discourse segment,2.
how the OCP recognizes the discourse segmentpurposes, and3.
how the focus space stack operates.In essence, the OCP must judge for each utterancewhether it starts a new segment, ends the current one(and possibly some of its embedding segments), orcontributes to the current one.
The information availableto the OCP for recognizing that an utterance starts a newsegment includes any explicit linguistic cues contained inthe utterance (see Section 6 9 ) as well as the relationshipbetween its utterance-level intentions and the active DSPs(i.e., those in some focus space that is still on the stack).Likewise, the fact that an utterance nds a segment maybe indicated explicitly by linguistic cues or implicitly fromits utterance-level intentions and their relationship toelements of the intentional structure.
If neither of these isthe case, the utterance is part of the current segment.Thus, intention recognition and focus space managementplay key roles in processing.
Moreover, they are alsorelated: the intentional structure is a primary factor indetermining focus space changes, and the focus spacestructure helps constrain the intention recognition proc-ess.4.1 INTENTION RECOGNITIONThe recognition of DP/DSPs is the central issue in thecomputational modeling of intentional structure.
If, aswe have claimed, for the discourse to be coherent andcomprehensible, the OCP must be able to recognize boththe DP/DSPs 10 and relationships (dominance and satis-faction-precedence) between them, then the question ofhow the OCP does so is a crucial issue.For the discourse as a whole, as well as for each of itssegments, the OCP must identify both the intention thatserves as the discourse segment purpose and its relation-ship to other discourse-level intentions.
In particular, theOCP must be able to recognize which other DSPs thatspecific intention dominates and is dominated by, and,where relevant, with which other DSPs it has satisfac-tion-precedence relationships.
Two issues that arecentral to the recognition problem are what informationthe OCP can utilize in effecting the recognition and atwhat point in the discourse that information becomesavailable.An adequate computational model of the recognitionprocess depends critically on an adequate theory ofintention and action; this, of course, is a large researchproblem in itself and one not restricted to matters ofdiscourse.
The need to use such a model for discourse,however, adds certain constraints on the adequacy of anytheory or model.
Pollack (1986) describes everal prop-erties such theories and models must possess if they areto be adequate for supporting recognition of intention insingle-utterance queries; she shows how current AI plan-ning models are inadequate and proposes an alternativeplanning formalism.
The need to enable recognition ofdiscourse-level intentions leads to yet another set ofrequirements.As will become clear in what follows, the informationavailable to the OCP comes from a variety of sources.Each of these can typically provide partial informationabout the DSPs and their relationships.
These sources areeach partially constraining, but only in their ensemble dothey constrain in full.
To the extent that more informa-tion is furnished by any one source, commensurately lessis needed from the others.
The overall processing modelmust be one of constraint satisfaction that can operate onpartial information.
It must allow for incrementallyconstraining the range of possibilities on the basis of newinformation that becomes available as the segmentprogresses.4.1.1 INFORMATION CONSTRAINING THE DSPAt least three different kinds of information play a role inthe determination of the DSP: specific linguistic markers,utterance-level intentions, and general knowledge aboutactions and objects in the domain of discourse.
Eachplays a part in the OCP's recognition of the DSP and canbe utilized by the ICP to facilitate this recognition.Cue phrases are the most distinguished linguisticmeans that speakers have for indicating discoursesegment boundaries and conveying information about theDSP.
Recent evidence by Hirschberg and Pierrehumbert(i~986) suggests that certain intonational properties ofutterances also provide partial information about the DSPrelationships.
Because some cue phrases may be used asclausal connectors, there is a need to distinguish theirdiscourse use from their use in conveying propositionalcontent at the utterance level.
For example, the word butfunctions as a boundary marker in utterance (7) of thediscourse in Section 3.1, but it can also be used solely (asin the current utterance) to convey propositional content(e.g., the conjunction of two propositions) and serve toconnect wo clauses within a segment.188 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseAs discussed in Section 6, cue phrases can provideinformation about dominance and satisfaction-prece-dence relationships between segments' DSPs.
However,they may not completely specify which DSP dominates orsatisfaction-precedes theDSP of the segment hey start.Furthermore, cue phrases that explicitly convey informa-tion only about the attentional structure (see Section 6)may be ambiguous about the state to which attention isto shift.
For example, if there have been several inter-ruptions (see Section 5), the phrase but anyway indicatesa return to some previously interrupted iscourse, butdoes not specify which one.
Although cue phrases do notcompletely specify a DSP, the information they provide isuseful in limiting the options to be considered.The second kind of information the OCP has availableis the utterance-level intention of each utterance in thediscourse.
As the discussion of the movies example(Section 3.1) pointed out, the DSP may be identical tothe utterance-level intention of some utterance in thesegment.
Alternatively, the DSP may combine theintentions of several utterances, as is illustrated in thefollowing discourse segment:I want you to arrange a trip for me to Palo Alto.It will be for two weeks.I only fly on TWA.The DSP for this segment is, roughly, that the ICPintends for the OCP to make (complete) trip arrange-ments for the ICP to go to Palo Alto for two weeks,under the constraint hat any flights be on TWA.
TheGricean intentions for these three utterances are asfollows:Utterance I : ICP intends that OCP believe that ICPintends that OCP intend to make trip plansfor ICP to go to Palo AltoUtterance2: ICP intends that OCP believe that ICPintends OCP to believe that the trip will lasttwo weeksUtterance3: ICP intends that OCP believe that ICPintends OCP to believe that ICP flies only onTWAThese intentions must be combined in some way toproduce the DSP.
The process is quite complex, since theOCP must recognize that the reason for utterances 2 and3 is not simply to have some new beliefs about the ICP,but to use those beliefs in arranging the trip.
While thisexample fits the schema of a request followed by twoinformings, schemata will not suffice to represent hebehavior as a general rule.
A different sequence of utter-ances with different utterance-level intentions can havethe same DSP; this is the case in the following segment:S 1: Have I told you yet to arrange my trip to Palo Alto?Remember that I will fly only on TWA.
OK?$2: OK.$3: I'm planning on staying for two weeks.It is possible for a sequence that consists of a requestfollowed by two informings not to result in a modifica-tion of the trip plans.
For example, in the followingsequence the third utterance results in changing the waythe arrangements are made, rather than constraining thenature of the arrangements themselves.I want you to arrange a two-week trip for me to PaloAlto.
I fly only on TWA.
The rates go up tomorrow,so you'll want to call today.Not only is the contribution of utterance-levelintentions to DSPs complicated, but in some instances theDSP for a segment may both constrain and be partiallydetermined by the Gricean intention for some utterancein the segment.
For example, the Gricean-intention forutterance (15) in the movies example (Section 3.1) isderived from a combination of facts about the utteranceitself, and from its place in the discourse.
On the surface,(15) appears to be a question addressed to the OCP; itsintention would be roughly that the ICP intends the OCPto believe that the ICP wants to know how young people,etc.
But (15) is actually a rhetorical question and has avery different intention associated with it - namely, thatthe ICP intends the OCP to believe proposition P2(namely, that young people cannot drink in through theireyes a continuous pectacle of intense and strained activ-ity without harniful effects).
In this example, this partic-ular intention is also the primary component of the DSP.The third kind of information that plays a role indetermining the DP/DSPs is shared knowledge aboutactions and objects in the domain of discourse.
Thisshared knowledge is especially important when thelinguistic markers and utterance-level intentions areinsufficient for determining the DSP precisely.In Section 7 we introduce two relations, a supportsrelation between propositions and a generates relationbetween actions, and present two rules stating equiv-alences; one links a dominance relation between twoDSPs with a supports relation between propositions andthe other links a dominance relation between DSPs to agenerates relation between actions.
Use of these rules inone direction allows for (partially) determining whatsupports or generates relationship holds from the domi-nance relationship.
But the rules can be used in the oppo-site direction also: if, from the content of utterances andreasoning about the domain of discourse, a supports orgenerates relationship can be determined, then the domi-nates relationship between DSPs can be determined.
Insuch cases it is important to derive the dominancerelationship so that the appropriate intentional and atten-tional structures are available for processing or determin-ing the interpretation of the subsequent discourse.From the perspective of recognition, a trade-offimplicit in the two equivalences i  important.
If the ICPmakes the dominance relationship between two DSPsexplicit (e.g., with cue phrases), then the OCP can usethis information to help recognize the (ICP's beliefsabout the) supports relationship.
Conversely, if the ICP'sutterances make clear the (ICP's beliefs about the)supports or generates relationship, then the OCP can useComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 189"~ , .~ ,, -,Barbara J. Grosz and Candaee L. Sithaer Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discoursethis information to help recognize the dominancerelationship.
Although it is most helpful to use the domi-nance relationships to constrain the search for appropri-ate supports and generates relationships, ometimes theselatter relationships can be inferred reasonably directlyfrom the utterances in a. segment using general know-ledge about the objects and actions in the domain ofdiscourse.
It remains an open question what inferencesare needed and how complex it will be to computesupports and generates relationships if the dominancerelationship is not directly indicated in a discourse.Utterances from the movies essay illustrate this trade-off.
In utterance (9), the phrase in the first placeexpresses the dominance relationship between DSPs ofthe new segment DS5 and the parent segment DS4 direct-ly.
Because of the dominance relationship (as well as theintentions expressed in the utterances), the OCP candetermine that the ICP believes that the proposition thatthe content of the plays is not the best provides supportfor the proposition that the result of indiscriminate moviegoing is harmful.
Hence determining dominance yieldsthe support relation.
The support relation can also yielddominance.
Utterances (12)-(14), which comprise DS7,are not explicitly marked for a dominance relation.
It canbe inferred from the fact that the propositions in(12)-(14) provide support for the proposition embeddedin DSP6 (that is, that the stories in movies are excitingand over-emotional) that DSP6 dominates DSP7.Finally, the more information an ICP supplies explicit-ly in the actual utterances of a discourse, the less reason-ing about domain information an OCP has to do toachieve recognition.
Cohen (1983) has made a similarclaim regarding the problem of recognizing the relation-ship between one proposition and another.4.1.2  WHEN IS  THE INTENTION RECOGNIZED?As discussed in Section 2.2, the intentional structureevolves as the discourse does.
By the same token, thediscourse participants' mental-state correlates of theintentional structure are not prebuilt; neither participantmay have a complete model of the intentional structure"in mind" until the discourse is completed.
The domi-nance relationships that actually shape the intentionalstructure cannot be known a priori, because the specificintentions that will come into play are not known (neverby the OCP, hardly ever by the ICP) until the utterancesin the discourse have been made.
Although it is assumedthat the participants' common knowledge includes 11enough information about the domain to determine vari-ous relationships such as supports and generates, it is notassumed that, prior to a discourse, they actually hadinferred and are aware of all the relationships they willneed for that discourse.Because any of the utterances in a segment maycontribute information relevant to a complete determi-nation of the DSP, the recognition process is notcomplete until the end of the segment.
However, the OCPmust be able to recognize at least a generalization of theDSP so that he can make the proper moves with respectto the attentional structure.
That is, some combination ofexplicit indicators and intentional and propositionalcontent must allow the OCP to ascertain where the DSPwill fit in the intentional structure at the beginning of asegment, even if the specific intention that is the DSPcannot be determined until the end of the segment.Utterance (15) in the movies example illustrates thispoint.
The author writes, "How can our young peopledrink in through their eyes a continuous spectacle ofintense and strained activity and feeling without harmfuleffects?"
The primary intention 12 is derived from thisutterance, but this cannot be done until very late in thediscourse segment \[since (15) occurs at the end of DS2\].Furthermore, the segment for which 12 is primary hascomplex embedding of other segments.
Utterance (16),intention I0, and DS0 constitute another example of theexpression of a primary intention late in a discoursesegment.
In that case, I0 cannot be computed until (16)has been read, and (16) is not only the last utterance inDS0, but is one that covers the entire essay.
If an OCPmust recognize a DSP to understand a segment, then weask: how does the OCP recognize a DSP when the utter-ance from which its primary intention is derived comes solate in the segment?We conjecture with regard to such segments as D2 ofthe movies essay that the primary intention (e.g., 12) maybe determined partially (and hence a generalized versionbecome recognizable) before the point at which it isactually expressed in the discourse.
While the DP/DSPmay not be expressed early, there is still partial informa-tion about it.
This partial information often suffices toestablish dominance (or satisfaction-precedence)relationships for additional segments.
As these latter areplaced in the hierarchy, their DSPs can provide furtherpartial information for the underspecified DSP.
Forexample, even though the intention I0 is expresseddirectly only in the last utterance of the movies essay,utterance (4) expresses an intention to know whether por ~p is true (i.e., whether or not parents hould let chil-dren see movies often and without close monitoring).
I0is an intention to believe, whose proposition is a gener-alization of the ~p expressed in (4).
Consider also theprimary intention 14.
It occurs in a segment embeddedwithin DS2, is more general than 12, but is an approxi-mation to it.
It would not be surprising to discover thatOCPs can in fact predict something close to 12 on thebasis of 14, utterances (9)-(14), and the partial domi-nance hierarchy available at each point in the discourse.4.2 USE OF  THE ATYENTIONAL STATE MODELThe focus space structure enables certain processingdecisions to be made locally.
In particular, it limits theinformation that must be considered in recognizing theDSP as well as that considered in identifying the referentsof certain classes of definite noun phrases.190 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J .
Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseA primary role of the focus space stack is to constrainthe range of DSPs considered as candidates for domi-nation or satisfaction-precedence of the DSP of thecurrent segment.
Only those DSPs in some space on thefocusing stack are viable prospects.
As a result of thisuse of the focusing structure, the theory predicts that thisdecision will be a local one with respect to attentionalstate.
Because two focus spaces may be close to eachother in the attentional structure without the discoursesegments they arise from necessarily being close to oneanother and vice versa, this prediction corresponds to aclaim that locality in the focusing structure is whatmatters to determination of the intentional structure.A second role of the focusing structure is to constrainthe OCP's search for possible referents of definite nounphrases and pronouns.
To illustrate this role, we willconsider the phrase the screw in the center in utterance(25) of the task-oriented ialogue of Section 3.
Thefocus stack configuration when utterance (25) is spokenis shown in Figure 7.
The stack contains (in bottom-to-top order) focus spaces FSI, FS4, and FS5 for segmentsDS1, DS4, and DS5, respectively.
For DS5 the wheelpul-ler is a focused entity, while for DS4 the two setscrewsare (because they are explicitly mentioned).
The entitiesin FS5 are considered before those in FS4 as potentialreferents.
The wheelpuller has three screws: two smallscrews fasten the side arms, and a large screw in thecenter is the main functioning part.
As a result, this largescrew is implicitly in focus in FS5 (Grosz 1977) and thusidentified as the referent without the two setscrews everbeing considered.Attentional state also constrains the search for refer-ents of pronouns.
Because pronouns contain less explicitinformation about their referents than definitedescriptions, additional mechanisms are needed toaccount for what may and may not be pronominalized inthe discourse.
One such mechanism is centering (whichwe previously called immediate focusing; Grosz, Joshi,and Weinstein 1983; Sidner 1979).Centering, like focusing, is a dynamic behavior, but isa more local phenomenon.
In brief, a backward-lookingcenter is associated with each utterance in a discoursesegment; of all the focused elements the backward-look-ing center is the one that is central in that utterance (i.e.,the uttering of the particular sequence of words at thatpoint in the discourse).
A combination of syntactic,semantic, and discourse information is used to identifythe backward-looking center.
The fact that some entity isthe backward-looking center is used to constrain thesearch for the referent of a pronoun in a subsequentutterance.
Note that unlike the DSP, which is constantfor a segment, the backward-looking center may shift:different entities may become more salient at differentpoints in the segment.The presence of both centers and DSPs in this theoryleads us to an intriguing conjecture: that "topic" is aconcept hat is used ambiguously for both the DSP of asegment and the center.
In the literature the concept of"topic" has appeared in many guises.
In syntactic form itis used to describe the preposing of syntactic onstituentsin English and the "wa" marking in Japanese.
Research-ers have used it to describe the sentence topic (i.e., whatthe sentence is about; Firbas 1971, Sgall, Haji~ov~, andSETSCREWS 3FLYWHEELIoDSP 1FS1SCREW 1SCREW 2DSP 2FS2SETSCREWS 3FLYWHEELIoDSP 1FS1ALLEN WRENCH 9KEYS14DSP 3FS3SETSCREWS 3FLYWHEELloDSP 1FS1WHEEL PULLER 8DSP 5FS5SETSCREWS 3FLYWHEELIoDSP 4FS4SETSCREWS 3FLYWHEELloDSP 1FS1t imeFigure 7.
Focus Stack Transitions Leading up to Utterance (25).Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 191Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseBenesova 1973), and as a pragmatic notion (Reinhart1981); others want to use the term for discourse topic,either to mean what the discourse is about, or to bedefined as those proposition(s) the ICP provides orrequests new information about (see Reinhart (1981) fora review of many of the notions of aboutness and topic).It appears that many of the descriptions of sentence topiccorrespond (though not always) to centers, whilediscourse topic corresponds to the DSP of a segment or ofthe discourse.5 APPLICATION OF THE THEORY: INTERRUPTIONSInterruptions in discourses pose an important est of anytheory of discourse structure.
Because processing anutterance requires ascertaining how it fits with previousdiscourse, it is crucial to decide which parts of the previ-ous discourse are relevant to it, and which cannot be.Interruptions, by definition, do not fit; consequently theirtreatment has implications for the treatment of thenormal flow of discourse.
Interruptions may take manyforms - some are not at all relevant o the content andflow of the interrupted iscourse, others are quite rele-vant, and many fall somewhere in between theseextremes.
A theory must differentiate these cases andexplain (among other things) what connections existbetween the main discourse and the interruption, andhow the relationship between them affects the processingof the utterances in both.The importance of distinguishing between intentionalstructure and attentional state is evident in the threeexamples considered in Subsections 5.2, 5.3, and 5.4.The distinction also permits us to explain a type ofbehavior deemed by others to be similar - so-calledsemantic returns - an issue we examine in Subsection5.5.These examples do not exhaust the types of inter-ruptions that can occur in discourse.
There are otherways to vary the explicit linguistic (and nonlinguistic)indicators used to indicate boundaries, the relationshipsbetween DSPs, and the combinations of focus spacerelationships present.
However, the examples provideillustrations of interruptions at different points along thespectrum of relevancy to the main discourse.
Becausethey can be explained more adequately by the theory ofdiscourse structure presented here than by previous theo-ries, they support the importance of the distinctions wehave drawn.5.1 PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONSFrom an intuitive view, we observe that interruptions arepieces of discourse that break the flow of the precedingdiscourse.
An interruption is in some way distinct fromthe rest of the preceding discourse; after the break forthe interruption, the discourse returns to the interruptedpiece of discourse.
In the example below, from Polanyiand Scha (forthcoming), there are two (separate)discourses, D1 indicated in normal type, and D2 in italics.D2 is an interruption that breaks the flow of D1 and isdistinct from D 1.DI:  John came byand left the groceriesD2: Stop thatyou kidsDI:  and I put them awayafter he leftUsing the theory described in previous sections, wecan capture the above intuitions about the nature ofinterruptions with two slightly different definitions.
Thestrong definition holds for those interruptions we classifyas "true interruptions" and digressions, while the weakerform holds for those that are flashbacks.
The two defi-nitions are as follows:Strong definition: An interruption is a discoursesegment whose DSP is not dominated nor satisfac-tion-preceded by the DSP of any preceding segment.Weak definition: An interruption is a discoursesegment whose DSP is not dominated nor satisfac-tion-preceded by the DSP of the immediately preced-ing segment.Neither of the above definitions includes an explicitmention of our intuition that there is a "return" to theinterrupted iscourse after an interruption.
The return isan effect of the normal progress of a conversation.
If weassume a focus space is normally popped from the focusstack if and only if a speaker has satisfied the DSP of itscorresponding segment, then it naturally follows boththat the focus space for the interruption will be poppedafter the interruption, and that the focus space for theinterrupted segment will be at the top of the stackbecause its DSP is yet to be satisfied.There are other kinds of discourse segments that onemay want to consider in light of the interruption contin-uum and these definitions.
Clarification dialogues (Allen1979) and debugging explanations (Sidner 1983) are twosuch possibilities.
Both of them, unlike the interruptionsdiscussed here, share a DSP with their preceding segmentand thus do not conform to our definition of interruption.These kinds of discourses may constitute another generalclass of discourse segments that, like interruptions, canbe abstractly defined.5.2 TYPE 1: TRUE INTERRUPTIONSThe first kind of interruption is the true interruption,which follows the strong definition of interruptions.
It isexemplified by the interruption given in the previoussubsection.
Discourses D1 and D2 have distinct, unre-lated purposes and convey different information aboutproperties, objects, and relations.
Since D2 occurs withinD1, one expects the discourse structures for the twosegments to be somehow embedded as well.
The theorydescribed in this paper differs from Polanyi and Scha's(1984; and other more radically different proposals aswell; e.g., Linde and Goguen 1978, Cohen 1983, Reich-192 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discourseman-Adar 1984) because the "embedding" occurs only inthe attentional structure.
As shown in Figure 8, thefocus space for D2 is pushed onto the stack above thefocus space for D1, so that the focus space for D2 ismore salient than the one for D 1, until D2 is completed.The intentional structures for the two segments aredistinct.
There are two DP/DSP structures for the utter-ances in this sequence - one for those in D1 and theother for those in D2.
It is not necessary to relate thesetwo; indeed, from an intuitive point of view, they are notrelated.The focusing structure for true interruptions i differ-ent from that for the normal embedding of segments,because the focusing boundary between the interrupteddiscourse and the interruption is impenetrable.
12 (This isdepicted in the figure by a line with intersecting hashmarks between focus spaces).
The impenetrable bounda-ry between the focus spaces prevents entities in the spac-es below the boundary from being available to the spacesabove it.
Because the second discourse shifts attentiontotally to a new purpose (and may also shift the identityof the intended hearers), the speaker cannot use anyDISCOURCESEGMENTS FOCUSSPACESTACK DOMINANCE HIERARCHYDI:  JOHNCAME BYANDLEFTTHE GROCERIES \D2: STOP THAT YOU KIDSD1 cont: AND I PUT THEMAWAY AFTER HE LEFT\A /\\KIDS 1KIDS 1 STOP ...DSP 2FS5; - , - , ; - , - , ,  - .-  - .
; -  r.tJOHN 10GROCERIES14JOHN'S COMING 15DSP 1FS4(EMPTY)(a)DISCOURSE SEGMENTS FOCUS SPACE STACK DOMINANCE HIERARCHYf~DI: JOHN CAME BY ANDLEFT THE GROCERIESD2: STOP THAT YOU KIDSD1 cont: AND I PUT THEMAWAY AFTER HE LEFT//%JOHNloGROCERIES14JOHN'SCOMING15DSP 1FS4(EMPTY)(b)F igure  8.
The structures of a true interruption.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 193Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discoursereferential expressions during it that depend on theaccessibility of entities from the first discourse.
Since theboundary between the focus space for D1 and the onefor D2 is impenetrable, if D2 were to include an utter-ance such as put them away, the pronoun would have torefer deictically, and not anaphorically, to the groceries.In this sample discourse, however, D1 is resumedalmost immediately.
The pronoun them in and I put themaway cannot refer to the children (the focus space for D2has been popped from the stack), but only to thegroceries.
For this to be clear to the OCP, the ICP mustindicate a return to D 1 explicitly.
One linguistic indicatorin this example is the change of mood from imperative.Indicators that the stop that utterance is an interruptioninclude the change to imperative mood and the use of thevocative (Polanyi and Scha 1983).
Two other indicatorsmay be assumed to have been present at the time of thediscourse - a change of intonation (imagine a slightlyshrill tone of command with an undercurrent of annoy-ance) and a shift of gaze (toward and then away fromthe kids).
It is also possible that the type of pause pres-ent in such cases is evidence of the interruption, butfurther research is needed to establish whether this isindeed the case.In contrast o previous accounts, we are not forced tointegrate these two discourses into a single grammaticalstructure, or to answer questions about the specificrelationship between segments D2 and D1, as inReichman's model (Reichman-Adar 1984).
Instead, theintuition that readers have of an embedding in thediscourse structure is captured in the attentional state bythe stacking of focus spaces.
In addition, a reader's intui-tive impression of the distinctness of the two segments icaptured in their different intentional (DP/DSP) struc-tures.5.3 TYPE 2: FLASHBACKS AND FILLING IN MISSING PLACESSometimes an ICP interrupts the flow of discussionbecause some purposes, propositions, or objects need tobe brought into the discourse but have not been: the ICPforgot to include those entities first, and so must now goback and fill in the missing information.
A flashbacksegment occurs at that point in the discourse.
The flash-back is defined as a segment whose DSP satisfaction-pre-cedes the interrupted segment and is dominated by someother segment's DSP.
Hence, it is a specialization of theweak definition of interruptions.
This type of inter-ruptio n differs from true interruptions both intentionallyand linguistically: the DSP for the flashback bears somerelationship to the DP for the whole discourse.
Thelinguistic indicator of the flashback typically includes acomment about something oing wrong.
In addition theaudience always remains the same, whereas it maychange for a true interruption (as in the example of the'previous ection).In the example below, taken from Sidner (1982), theICP is instructing a mock-up system (mimicked by aperson) about how to define and display certain informa-tion in a particular knowledge-representation language.Again the interruption is indicated by italics.OK.
Now how do I say that Bill isWhoops I forgot about ABC.I need an individual concept for the company ABC...\[remainder of discourse segment on ABC\]...Now back to Bill.
How do I say that Bill is an employeeof ABC?The DP for the larger discourse from which thissequence was taken is to provide information about vari-ous companies (including ABC) and their employees.The outer segment in this example - DBill - has a DSP -DSPBill - to tell about Bill, while the inner segment -DAB C -- has a DSP - DSPAB C -- to  convey certain infor-mation about ABC.
Because of the nature of the infor-mation being told, there is order in the final structure ofthe DP/DSPs: information about ABC must be conveyedbefore all of the information about Bill can be.
The ICPin this instance does not realize this constraint until afterhe begins.
The "flashback" interruption allows him tosat i s fy  DSPAB C while suspending satisfaction of DSPBill(which he then resumes).
Hence, there is an intentionalstructure rooted at DP and with DSPAB C and DSPBi  u asordered sister nodes.
The following three relationshipshold between the different DSPs:14DP DOM DSPAB CDP DOM DSPBillDSPAB C SP DSPBillThis kind of interruption is distinct from a true inter-ruption because there is a connection, although indirect,between the DSPs for the two segments.
Furthermore,the linguistic features of the start of the interruptionsignify that there is a precedence relation between theseDSPs (and hence that the correction is necessary).
Flash-backs are also distinct from normally embeddeddiscourses because of the precedence relationshipbetween the DSPs for the two segments and the order inwhich the segments occur.The available linguistic data permit three possibleattentional states as appropriate models for flashback-type interruptions: one is identical to the state that wouldensue if the flashback segment were a normally embed-ded segment, the second resembles the model of a trueinterruption, and the third differs from the others byrequiring an auxiliary stack.
An example of the stack fora normally embedded sequence is given in Section 4.2Figure 9 illustrates the last possibility.
The focus spacefor the flashback - FSAB C -- is pushed onto the stackafter an appropriate number of spaces, including thefocus space for the outer segment - FSBil l  , have beenpopped from the main stack and pushed onto an auxiliarystack.
All of the entities in the focus spaces remaining onthe main stack are normally accessible for reference, butnone of those on the auxiliary stack are.
In the examplein the figure, entities in the spaces from FS A to FS B areaccessible as well (though less salient than) those ir/194 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discoursespace FSAB C. Evidence for this kind of stack behaviorcould come from discourses in which phrases in thesegment about ABC could refer to entities represented inFSB, but not to those in FSBi u or FS C. After an explicitindication that there is a return to DSPBill (e.g., the Nowback to Bill used in this example), any focus spaces lefton the stack from the flashback are popped off, and allspaces on the auxiliary stack (including FSBill ) arereturned to the main stack.
Note, however, that thismodel does not preclude the possibility of a return tosome space between FS A and FS B before popping theauxiliary stack.
Whether there are discourses that includesuch a return and are deemed coherent is an open ques-tion.The auxiliary stack model differs from the other twomodels by the references permitted and by the spacesthat can be popped to.
Given the initial configuration inFigure 9, if the segment with DSPAB C were normallyembedded, FSAB C would just be added to the top of thestack.
If it were a true interruption, the space would also'be added to the stack, but with an impenetrable bounda-ry between it and FSBill.
In the normal stack model, enti-ties in the spaces lower in the stack would be accessible;in the true interruption they would not.
In either of thesetwo models, however, FSBill would be the space returnedto first.
The auxiliary stack model is obviously morecomplicated than the other two alternatives.
Whether it(or some equivalent alternative) is necessary depends onfacts of discourse behavior that have not yet been deter-mined.5.4 TYPE 3: DIGRESSIONSThe third type of interruption, which we call a digression,is defined as a strong interruption that contains a refer-ence to some entity that is salient in both the interruptionand the interrupted segment.
For example, if whilediscussing Bill's role in company ABC, one conversationalparticipant interrupts with, Speaking of  Bill, that remindsme, he came to dinner last week, Bill remains salient, butthe DP changes.
Digressions commonly begin withphrases such as speaking of  John or that reminds me,although no cue phrase need be present, and that remindsme may also signal other stack and intention shifts.In the processing of digressions, the discourse-levelintention of the digression forms the base of a separateintentional structure, just as in the case of true inter-ruptions.
A new focus space is formed and pushed ontothe stack, but it contains at least one - and possibly other- entities from the interrupted segment's focus space.Like the flashback-type interruption, the digression mustusually be closed with an explicit utterance such asgetting back to ABC... or anyway.MAINSTACKFSBILLFS CFS BFS AMAIN AUXIL IARYSTACK STACKFSAB cFS BFS AFSBI LLFS ctimeSTACK AT t I STACKS AT t 2F igure  9.
The auxiliary stack model for flashbacks.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 195Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discourse5.5 NONINTERRUPTIONS - "SEMANTIC RETURNS"One case of discourse behavior that we must distinguishcomprises the so-called "semantic returns" observed byReichman (1981) and discussed by Polanyi and Scha(1983).
In all the interruptions we have considered sofar, the stack must be popped when the interruption isover and the interrupted iscourse is resumed.
The focusspace for the interrupted segment is "returned to."
In thecase of semantic returns, entities and DSPs that were sali-ent during a discourse in the past are taken up onceagain, but are explicitly reintroduced.
For example,suppose that yesterday two people discussed how badlyJack was behaving at the party; then today one of themsays Remember our discussion about Jack at the party?Well, a lot of  other people thought he acted just as badly aswe thought he did.
The utterances today recall, or returnto, yesterday's conversation to help satisfy the intentionthat more be said about Jack's poor behavior.Anything that can be talked about once can be talkedabout again.
However, if there is no focus space on thestack corresponding to the segment and DSP beingdiscussed further, then, as Polanyi and Scha (1983) pointout, there is no popping of the stack.
There need not beany discourse underway when a semantic return occurs;in such cases, the focus stack will be empty.
Thus, unlikethe returns that follow normalreturns involve a push onto thecontaining, among other things,reintroduced entities.interruptions, semanticstack of a new spacerepresentations of theThe separation of attentional state from intentionalstructure makes clear not only what is occurring in suchcases, but also the intuitions underlying the term seman-tic return.
In reintroducing some entities from a previousdiscourse, conversational participants are establishingsome connection between the DSP of the new segmentand the intentional structure of the original discourse.
Itis not a return to a previous focus space because thefocus space for the original discourse is gone from thestack, and the items to be referred to must be re-establ-ished explicitly.
For example, the initial reference toJack in the preceding example cannot be accomplishedwith a pronoun; with no prior mention of Jack in thecurrent discussion, one cannot say, Remember ourdiscussion about him at the party.
The intuitiveimpression of a return in the strict sense is only a returnto a previous intentional structure.6 APPLICATION OF THE THEORY: CUE WORDSBoth attentional state and intentional structure changeduring a discourse.
ICPs rarely change attention bydirectly and explicitly referring to attentional state (e.g.,using the phrase Now let's turn our attention to...).
Like-wise, discourses only occasionally include an explicitreference to a change in purpose (e.g., with an utterancesuch as Now I want to explain the theory of  dynamicprogramming).
More typically, ICPs employ indirectmeans of indicating that a change is coming and whatkind of change it is.
Cue phrases provide abbreviated,indirect means of indicating these changes.In all discourse changes, the ICP must provide infor-mation that allows the OCP to determine all of thefollowing:1. that a change of attention is imminent;2. whether the change returns to a previous focus spaceor creates a new one;3. how the intention is related to other intentions;4. what precedence r lationships, if any, are relevant;5. what intention is entering into focus.Cue phrases can pack in all of this information, exceptfor (5).
In this section, we explore the predictions of ourdiscourse structure theory about different uses of thesephrases and the explanations the theory offers for theirvarious roles.We use the configuration of attentional state andintentional structure illustrated in Figure 10 as the start-ing point of our analysis.
In the initial configuration, thefocus space stack has a space with DSP X at the bottomand another space with DSP A at the top.
The intentionalstructure includes the information that X dominates A.From this initial configuration, a wide variety of movesmay be made.
We examine several changes and the cuephrases that can indicate each of them.
Because thesephrases and words in isolation may ambiguously playeither discourse or other functional roles, we also discussthe other uses whenever appropriate.
Furthermore, cuephrases do not function unambiguously with respect o aparticular discourse role.
Thus for example, first can beused for two different moves that we discuss below.First, consider what happens when the ICP shifts to anew DSP, B, that is dominated by A (and corresponding-ly by X).
The dominance relationship between A and Bbecomes part of the intentional structure.
In addition,the change in DSP results in a change in the focus stack.The focus stack models this change, which we call newdominance, by a having new space pushed onto the stackwith B as the DSP of that space (as illustrated in Figure11).
The space containing A is salient, but less so thanthe space with B.
Cue phrase(s) to signal this case, andonly this one, must communicate two pieces of informa-tion: that there is a change to some new purpose (result-ing in a new focus space being created in the attentionalstate model rather than a return to one on the stack) andthat the new purpose (DSP B) is dominated by DSP A.Typical cue phrases for this kind of change are for exam-ple and to wit, and sometimes first and second.Cue phrases can also exhibit the existence of a satis-faction-precedence relationship.
If B is to be the first ina list of DSPs dominated by A, then words such as firstand in the first place can be used to communicate thisfact.
Later in the discourse, cue phrases uch as second,third, and finally can be used to indicate DSPs that aredominated by A and satisfaction-preceded by B.
In thesecases, the focus space containing B would be popped196 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discoursefrom the stack and the new focus space inserted abovethe one containing A.There are three other kinds of discourse segments thatchange the intentional structure with a resulting push ofnew focus spaces onto the stack: the true-interruption,where B is not dominated by A; the flashback, where Bsatisfaction-precedes A; and the digression, where B isnot dominated by A, but some entity from the focusspace containing A is carried over to the new focusspace.One would expect hat there might be cue phrases thatwould distinguish among all four of these kinds of chang-es.
Just that is so.
There are cue phrases that announceone and only one kind of change.
The cue phrasesmentioned above for new dominance are never used forthe three kinds of discourse interruption pushes.
The cuephrases for true-interruptions express the intention tointerrupt (e.g.
Excuse me a minute, or !
must interrupt)while the distinct cue phrase for flashbacks (e.g.
Oops, !forgot about ...) indicates that something is out of order.The typical opening cue phrases of the digressionmention the entity that is being carded forward (e.g.Speaking of  John ... or Did you hear about John?
).DISCOURSE SEGMENTS FOCUS SPACE STACK DOMINANCE H IERARCHYteN,..~ 4,UhudU, QI, p~iL~.
;t//\xlDSP = ADSP = XX DOMINATES AFigure 10.
An initial discourse structure configuration.ATTENTIONAL~TATE CHANGE DOMINANCE HIERARCHYDSP = ADSP = XDSP = BDSP = ADSP = XX DOMINATES AA DOMINATES Bt I t 2Figure 11.
Attentional and intentional structures for a new subsegment.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 197Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseCue phrases can also exhibit the satisfaction of a DSP,and hence the completion of a discourse segment.
Thecompletion of a segment causes the current space to bepopped from the stack.
There are many means oflinguistically marking completions.
In texts, paragraphand chapter boundaries and explicit comments (e.g.
TheEnd) are common.
In conversations, completion can beindicated either with cue phrases uch as f ine or OK 15 orwith more explicit references to the satisfaction of theintention (e.g., That's all fo r  point 2, or The ayes have it.
).Most cue phrases that communicate changes to atten-tional state announce pops of the focus stack.
However,at least one cue phrase can be construed to indicate apush, namely, That reminds me.
By itself, this phrase doesnot specify any particular change in intentional structure,but merely shows that there will be a new DSP.
Sincethis is equivalent to indicating that a new focus space isto be pushed onto the stack, this cue phrase is best seenas conveying attentional information.Cue phrases that indicate pops to some other spaceback in the stack include but anyway, anyway, in any case,and now back to...
When the current focus space ispopped from the stack, a space already on the stackbecomes most salient.
From the configuration i  Figure10, the space with A is popped from the stack, perhapswith others, and another space on the stack becomes thetop of the stack.
Popping back changes the stack withoutcreating a new DSP, or a dominance or satisfaction-precedence relationship.
The pop entails a return to anold DSP; no change is effected in the intentional struc-ture.There are cue phrases, such as now and next, thatsignal a change of attentional state, but do not distinguishbetween the creation of a new focus space and the returnto an old one.
These words can be used for either move.For example, in a task-oriented iscourse during whichsome task has been mentioned but put aside to ask aquestion, the use of now indicates a change of focus.
Theutterance following now, however, will either return thediscussion to the deferred task or will introduce somenew task for consideration.Note, finally, that a pop of the focus stack may beachieved without the use of cue phrases as in the follow-ing fragment of a task-oriented dialogue (Grosz 1974):A: One bolt is stuck, i 'm trying to use both the pliers andthe wrench to get it unstuck, but I haven't had muchluck.E: Don't use pliers.
Show me what you are doing.A: I 'm pointing at the bolts.E: Show me the 1/2" combination wrench, please.A: OK.E: Good, now show me the 1/2" box wrench.A: I already got it loosened.The last utterance in this fragment returns thediscourse to the discussion of the unstuck bolt.
The popcan be inferred only from the content of the main portionof the utterance.
The pronoun (or, more accurately, thefact that it cannot be referring to the wrench) is a cuethat a pop is needed, but only the reference to the loos-ening action allows the OCP to recognize to whichdiscourse segment this utterance belongs, as discussed bySidner (1979) and Robinson (1981).
A summary of theuses of cue phrases is given in Figure 12.Attentional Change(push) now, next, that reminds me, and, but(pop to) anyway, but anyway, in any case, now back to(complete) the end, ok, fine, (paragraph break)True interruptionI must interrupt, excuse meFlashbacksOops, I forgot.DigressionsBy the way, incidentally, speaking of,Did you hear about .... That reminds meSatisfaction-precedesin the first place, first, second, finally, moreover,furthermoreNew dominancefor example, to wit, first, second, and, moreover,furthermore, therefore, finallyFigure 12.
The uses of cue phrases.198 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseThe cases listed here do not exhaust the changes infocus spaces and in the dominance hierarchy that can berepresented - nor have we furnished a set of rules thatspecify when cue phrases are necessary.
Additionalcases, especially special subcases of these, may be possi-ble.
When discourse is viewed in terms of intentionalstructure and attentional state, it is clearer just whatkinds of information linguistic expressions and intonationconvey to the hearer about the discourse structure.Furthermore, it is clear that linguistic expressions canfunction as cue phrases, as well as sentential connections;they can tell the hearer about changes in the discoursestructure and be carriers of discourse, rather thansentence-level semantic, meaning.7 SOME PROPERTIES AND PROBLEMS OFDISCOURSE-LEVEL INTENTIONSThe intentions that serve as DP/DSPs are natural exten-sions of the intentions Grice (1969) considers essentialto developing a theory of utterer's meaning.
There is acrucial difference, however, between our use of disc-ourse-level intentions in this paper (and the theory, asdeveloped so far) and Grice's use of utterance-levelintentions.
We are not yet addressing the issue ofdiscourse meaning, but are concerned with the role ofDp/DSPs in determining discourse structure and in speci-fying how these intentions can be recognized by an OCP.Although the intentional structure of a discourse plays arole in determining discourse meaning, the DP/DSPs donot in and of themselves constitute discourse segmentmeaning.
The connection between intentional structureand discourse meaning is similar to that between atten-tional and cognitive states; the attentional state plays arole in a hearer's understanding of what the speakermeans by a given sequence of utterances in a discoursesegment, but it is not the only aspect of cognitive statethat contributes to this understanding.We will draw upon some particulars of Grice's defi-nition of utterer's meaning to explain DSPs more fully.His initial definition is as follows:U meant something by uttering x is true iff \[forsome audience A\]:1.
U intended, by uttering x, to induce a certainresponse in A2.
U intended A to recognize, at least in part fromthe utterance of x, that U intended to producethat response3.
U intended the fulfillment of the intentionmentioned in (2) to be at least in part A'sreason for fulfilling the intention mentioned in(1).Grice refines this definition to address a number ofcounterexamples.
The following portion of his finaldefinition 16 is relevant o this paper:By uttering x U meant hat *6p is true iff(~tA)(3f \[features of the utterance\]) (3c \[ways ofcorrelating f with utterances17\]):(a) U uttered x intending1.
A to think x possesses f2.
A to think f correlated in way c with ~-ing that p3.
A to think, on the basis of fulfillment of (1) and(2) that U intends A to think that U ffs that p4.
A on the basis of fulfillment of (3) to think thatU ~ks that p5.
and (in some cases), A on the basis of fulfill-ment of (4) himself to ~k that pGrice takes *~p to be the meaning of the utterance,where *ff is a mood indicator associated with the proposi-tional attitude q~ (e.g., *q~=assert and ~k=believe).
Heconsiders attitudes like believing that ICP is a Germansoldier and intending to give the ICP a beer as examplesof the kinds of ~b-ing that p that utterance intentions canembed.
For expository purposes, we use the followingnotation to represent these utterance-level intentions:Intend(ICP, Believe(OCP, ICP is a German soldier))Intend(ICP, Intend(OCP, OCP give ICP a beer))To extend Grice's definition to discourses, we replacethe utterance x with a discourse segment DS, the uttererU with the initiator of a discourse segment ICP, and theaudience A with the OCP.
To complete this extension,the following problems must be resolved:1. specifying the discourse-level intentions and attitudesthat correspond to the utterance-level intentions and~'s that p;2. identifying the kinds of fs that contribute to deter-mining discourse-level intentions;3. identifying the modes of correlation (the c's) betweenfeatures of the discourse segments and types of disc-ourse-level intentions;4. specifying how the discourse-level intentions can berecognized by an OCP.Although each of these issues is an unresolved prob-lem in discourse theory, this paper has provided partialanswers.
The examples presented illustrate the range ofdiscourse-level intentions; these intentions appear to besimilar to utterance-level intentions in kind, but differ inthat they occur in a context in which several utterancesmay be required to ensure their comprehension and satis-faction.
The features so far identified as conveyinginformation about DSPs are: specific linguistic markers(e.g., cue phrases, intonation), utterance-level intentions,and propositional content of the utterances.
We have notexplored the problem of identifying modes of correlationin any detail, but it is clear that those modes that operateat the utterance level also function at the discourse level.As discussed previously, the proper treatment of therecognition of discourse-level intentions is especiallynecessary for a computationally useful account ofdiscourse.
At the discourse level, just as at the utterancelevel, the intended recognition of intentions plays aComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 199Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discoursecentral role.
The DSPs are intended to be recognized:they achieve their effects, in part, because the OCPrecognizes the ICP's intention for the OCP to ~ that p.The OCP's recognition of this intention is crucial to itsachieving the desired effect.
In Section 4 we describedcertain constraints on the recognition process.7.1 THE BASIC GENERALIZATIONIn extending Grice's analysis to the discourse level, wehave to consider not only individual beliefs andintentions, but also the relationships among them thatarise because of the relationships among variousdiscourse segments (and utterances within a segment)and the purposes the segments erve with respect o theentire discourse.
To clarify these relationships, consideran analogous ituation with nonlinguistic actions.
18 Anaction may divide into several subactions; for example,the planting of a rose bush divides into preparing the soil,digging a hole, placing the rose bush in the hole, fillingthe rest of the hole with soil, and watering the groundaround the bush.
The intention to perform the plantingaction includes several subsidiary intentions (one foreach of the subactions - namely, to do it).In discourse, in a manner that is analogous to nonlin-guistic actions, the DP (and some DSPs) includes severalsubsidiary intentions related to the DSPs it dominates.For purposes of exposition, we will use the term primaryi n tent ion  to distinguish the overall intention of the DPfrom the subsidiary intentions of the DP.
For example inthe movies argument of Section 3.1, the primary inten-tion is for the reader to come to believe that parents andteachers should keep children from seeing too manymovies; in the task dialogue of Section 3.2, the intentionis that the apprentice remove the flywheel.
Subsidiaryintentions include, respectively, the intention that thereader believe that it is important o evaluate movies andthe intention that the expert help the apprentice locatethe second setscrew.Because the beliefs and intentions of at least twodifferent participants are involved in discourse, two prop-erties of the general-action situation (assuming a singleagent performs all actions) do not carry over.
First, in adiscourse, the ICP intends the OCP to recognize the ICP'sbeliefs about the connections among various propositionsand actions.
For example, in the movies argument, thereader (OCP) is intended to recognize that the author(ICP) believes some propositions provide support forothers; in the task dialogue the expert (ICP) intends theapprentice (OCP) to recognize that the expert believesthe performance of certain actions contributes to theperformance of other actions.
In contrast, in the gener-al-action situation in which there is no communication,there is no need for recognition of another agent's beliefsabout the interrelationship of various actions andintentions.The second difference concerns the extent to whichthe subsidiary actions or intentions specify the overallaction or intention.
To perform some action, the agentmust perform each of the subactions involved; byperforming all of these subactions the agent performs theaction.
In contrast in a discourse, the participants harethe assumption of discourse sufficiency: it is a conventionof the communicative situation that the ICP believes thediscourse is sufficient o achieve the primary intention ofthe DP.
Discourse sufficiency does not entail logicalsufficiency or action completeness.
It is not necessarilythe case that satisfaction of all of the DSPs is sufficient inand of itself for satisfaction of the DP.
Rather, there is anassumption that the information conveyed in thediscourse will suffice in conjunction with other informationthe ICP believes the OCP has (or can obtain) to allow forsatisfaction of the primary intention of the DP.
Satisfac-tion of all of the DSPs, in conjunction with this additionalinformation, is enough for satisfaction of the DP.
Hence,in discourse the intentional structure (the analogue of theaction hierarchy) need not be complete.For example, the propositions expressed in the moviesessay do not provide a logically sufficient proof of theclaim.
The author furnishes information he believes to beadequate for the reader to reach the desired conclusionand assumes the reader will supplement what is actuallysaid with appropriate additional information and reason-ing.
Likewise, the task dialogue does not mention all thesubtasks explicitly.
Instead, the expert and apprenticediscuss explicitly only those subtasks for which someinstruction is needed or in connection with which someproblem arises.To be more concrete, we shall look at the extension ofthe Gricean analysis for two particular cases, one involv-ing a belief, the other an intention to perform someaction.
We shall consider only the simplest situations, inwhich the primary intentions of the DP/DSPs are abouteither beliefs or actions, but not a mixture.
Although thetask dialogue obviously involves a mixture, this is anextremely complicated issue that demands additionalresearch.7.2 THE BELIEF CASEIn the belief case, the primary intention of the DP is toget the OCP to believe some proposition, say p. Each ofthe discourse segments i also intended to get the OCP tobelieve a proposition, say qi for some i= 1 ..... n (wherethere are n discourse segments).
In addition to the prima-ry intention - i.e., that "the OCP should come to believe p- the DP includes an intention that the OCP come tobelieve each of the qi and, in addition, an intention thatthe OCP come to believe the qi provide support for p. Wecan represent this schematically as: 19Yi= 1 ..... n Intend(ICP, Believe(OCP,p) ABelieve(OCP,qi ) ABelieve(OCP, Supports (p, qlA.. .Aqn)))There are several things to note here.
To begin with,the first intention, (Intend ICP (Believe (OCP p)), is theprimary component of the DSP.
Second, each of the200 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discourseintended beliefs in the second conjunct corresponds tothe primary component of the DSP of some embeddeddiscourse segment.
Third, the supports relation is notimplication.
The OCP is not intended to believe that theqi imply p, but rather to believe that the qi in conjunctionwith other facts and rules that the ICP assumes the OCPhas available or can obtain and thus come to believe aresufficient for the OCP to conclude p. Fourth, theDP/DSP may only be completely determined at the endof the discourse (segment), as we discussed in Section 4.Finally, to determine how the discourse segmentscorresponding to the qi are related to the one corre-sponding to p, the OCP only has to believe that the ICPbelieves a supports relationship holds.
Hence, for thepurpose of recognizing the discourse structure, it wouldbe sufficient for the third clause to be...
Believe(OCP, Believe(ICP,Supports (p, qlA...Aqn)))However, the DP of a belief-case discourse is not merelyto get the OCP to believe p, but to get the OCP to believep by virtue of believing the qi.
That this is so can be seenclearly by considering situations in which the OCPalready believes p and is known by the ICP to do so, butdoes not have a good reason for believing p. This lastproperty of the belief case is not shared by the actioncase.There is an important relationship between thesupports relation and the dominance relation that canhold between DP/DSPs; it is captured in the followingrule (using the same notation as above):?i= 1 ..... n Intend(CP 1, Believe(CP2,p)) AIntend(CPp Believe(CP2,qi)) ABelieve(CPp Supports(p, qlA...Aqn)) ~DOM(Intend(CPp Believe(CP2,p))Intend(CP 1, Believe(CP2,qi)))The implication in the forward direction states that if aconversational participant (CP I )  believes that the propo-sition p is supported by the proposition qi, and he intendsanother participant (CP2) to adopt these beliefs, then hisintention that CP 2 believe p dominates his intention thatCP 2 believe qi- Viewed intuitively, CPl's belief that qiprovides upport for p, underlies his intention to get CP 2to believe p by getting him to believe qi.
The satisfactionof CP~'s intention that CP 2 should believe qi will helpsatisfy CP~'s intention that CP 2 believe p. This relation-ship plays a role in the recognition of DSPs.7.3 THE ACTION CASEAn analogous situation holds for a discourse segmentcomprising utterances intended to get the OCP toperform some set of actions directed at achieving someoverall task (e.g., some segments in the task-orienteddialogue of Section 3.2).
The full specification of theDP/DSP contains a generates relation that is derived froma relation defined by Goldman (1970).
For this case, theDP/DSPs are of the following form:?i= 1 ..... n Intend(ICP, Intend(OCP, Do(A)) AIntend(OCP, Do(ai)) ABelieve(OCP, Believe(ICP,Generates(A, alA.. .Aan))))Each intention to act represented in the second conjunctcorresponds to the primary intention of some discoursesegment.Like supports, the generates relation is partial (itspartiality distinguishes it in part from Goldman'srelation).
Thus, the OCP is not intended to believe thatthe ICP believes that performance of a i alone is sufficientfor performance of A, but rather that doing all of the a iand other actions that the OCP can be expected to knowor figure out constitutes a performance of A.
In the taskdialogue of Section 3.2, many actions that are essential tothe task (e.g., the apprentice picking up the Allen wrenchand applying it correctly to the setscrews) are never evenmentioned in the dialogue.Note that it is unnecessary for the ICP or OCP to havea complete plan r~lating all of the a i to A at the start ofthe discourse (or discourse segment).
All that is requiredis that, for any given segment, the OCP be able to deter-mine what intention to act the segment corresponds toand which other intentions dominate that intention.Finally, unlike the belief case, the third conjunct hererequires only that the OCP recognize that the ICPbelieves a generates relationship holds.
The OCP can doA by virtue of doing the a i without coming himself tobelieve anything about the relationships between A andthe a i.As in the belief case, there is an equivalence that linksthe generates relation among actions to the dominancerelation between intentions.
Schematically, it is asfollows:?i= 1 ..... n Intend(CP 1, Intend(CP 2, Do(A)))  AIntend(CP1, Intend(CP2, Do(ai))) ABelieve(CPt, Generates(A, alA...Aan)) < >DOM(Intend(CP1, Intend(CP2, Do(A)))Intend(CP t, Intend(CP 2, Do(ai))))This equivalence states that, if an agent (CP 1) believesthat the performance of some action (ai) contributes inpart to the performance of another action (A), and if CP 1intends for CP 2 to (intend to) do both of these actions,then his intention that CP 2 (intend to) perform a i isdominated by his intention that CP 2 (intend to) performA.
Viewed intuitively, CP1's belief that doing a i willcontribute to doing A underlies his intention to get CP 2to do A by getting CP 2 to  do a i.
The satisfaction of CPt'sintention for CP 2 to do a i will help satisfy CP~'s intentionfor CP 2 to  do A.So, for example, in the task-oriented ialogue ofSection 3.2, the expert knows that using the wheelpulleris a necessary part of removing the flywheel.
His inten-tion that the apprentice intend to use the wheelpuUer isthus dominated by his intention that the apprenticeintend to take off the flywheel.
Satisfaction of the inten-tion to use the wheelpuller will contribute to satisfyingComputational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 201Barbara J. Grusz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discoursethe intention to remove the flywheel.
In general, theaction a i does not have to be a necessary action though itis in this example (at least if the task is done correctly).A definitive statement characterizing primary andsubsidiary intentions for task-oriented ialogues awaitsfurther research not only in discourse theory, but also inthe theory of intentions and actions.
In particular, aclearer statement of the interactions among theintentions of the various discourse participants (withrespect to both linguistic and nonlinguistic actions)awaits the formulation of a better theory of cooperationand multiagent activity.7.4 RHETORICAL RELATIONSWe are now in a position to contrast the role ofDP/DSPs, supports, generates, DOM, and SP in our theo-ry with the rhetorical relations that, according to anumber of alternative theories (e.g., Grimes 1975, Hobbs1979, Mann and Thompson 1983, Reichman-Adar 1984,McKeown 1985), are claimed to underlie discourse struc-ture.
Among the various rhetorical relations that havebeen investigated are elaboration, summarization,enablement, justification, and challenge.
Although thetheories each identify different specific relations, they alluse such relations as the basis for determining discoursestructure.These rhetorical relations apply specifically to linguis-tic behavior and most of them implicitly incorporateintentions (e.g., the intention to summarize, the intentionto justify).
The intentions that typically serve as DP/DSPsin our theory are more basic than those that underliesuch rhetorical relations in that they are not specializedfor linguistic behavior; in many cases, their satisfactioncan be realized by nonlinguistic actions as well as linguis-tic ones.The supports and generates relations that must some-times be inferred to determine domination are also morebasic than rhetorical relations; they are general relationsthat hold between propositions and actions.
Hence, theinferring of relationships such as supports and generatesis simpler than that of rhetorical relationships.
Thedetermination of whether a supports or generatesrelationship exists depends only on facts of how theworld is, not on facts of the discourse.
In contrast, therecognition of rhetorical relations requires the combineduse of discourse and domain information.For several reasons, rhetorical relationships do nothave a privileged status in the account given here.Although they appear to provide a metalevel descriptionof the discourse, their role in discourse interpretationremains unclear.
As regards discourse processing, itseems obvious that the ICP and OCP have essentiallydifferent access to them.
In particular, the ICP may wellhave such rhetorical relationships "in mind" as heproduces utterances (as in McKeown's (1985) system),whereas it is much less clear when (if at all) the OCPinfers them.
A claim of the theory being developed in thispaper is that a discourse can be understood at a basiclevel even if the OCP never does or can construct, letalone name, such rhetorical relationships.
Furthermore,it appears that these relationships could be recast as acombination of domain-specific information, generalrelations between propositions and actions (e.g., supportsand generates), and general relations between intentions(e.g., domination and satisfaction-precedence).
20 Evenso, rhetorical relationships are, in all likelihood, useful tothe theoretician as an analytical tool for certain aspectsof discourse analysis.8 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE RESEARCHThe theory of discourse structure presented in this paperis a generalization of theories of task-oriented dialogues.It differs from previous generalizations in that it carefullydistinguishes three components of discourse structure:one linguistic, one intentional, and one attentional.
Thisdistinction provides an essential basis for explaininginterruptions, cue phrases, and referring expressions.The particular intentional structure used also differsfrom the analogous aspect of previous generalizations.Although, like those generalizations, it supplies the prin-cipal framework for discourse segmentation and deter-mines structural relationships for the focusing structure(part of the attentional state), unlike its predecessors itdoes not depend on the special details of any singledomain or type of discourse.Although admittedly still incomplete, the theory doesprovide a solid basis for investigating both the structureand meaning of discourse, as well as for constructingdiscourse-processing systems.
Several difficult researchproblems remain to be explored.
Of these, we take thefollowing to be of primary importance:1.
Specification of the relationship between discourse-level (DP/DSP) and utterance-level intentions;2.
Identification of the information that discourse partic-ipants use to recognize these intentions, and the waysin which they utilize it;3 Development of an adequate treatment of the inter-action among intentions of multiple participants;4.
Investigation of the effect of multiple DSPs on thetheory;5.
Investigation of alternative models of attentionalstate.Finally, the theory suggests everal important conjec-tures.
First, that a discourse is coherent only when itsdiscourse purpose is shared by all the participants andwhen each utterance of the discourse contributes toachieving this purpose, either directly or indirectly, bycontributing to the satisfaction of a discourse segmentpurpose.
Second, general intuitions about "topic" corre-spond most closely to DP/DSPs, rather than to syntacticor attentional concepts.
Finally, the theory suggests thatthe same intentional structure can give rise to differentattentional structures through different discourses.
Thedifferent attentional structures will be manifest in part202 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of Discoursebecause different referring expressions will be valid, andin part because different cue phrases and other indicatorswill be necessary, optional, or redundant.AKNOWLEDGMENTSWe have benefited greatly from discussions with MarthaPollack, Ray Perrault, and Scott Weinstein.
The paperhas benefited from the comments of Jon Barwise, MarciaDerr, Brad Goodman, David Israel, Amichai Kronfeld,Mitch Marcus, Martha Pollack, Ray Perrault, John Perry,Jane Robinson, Stuart Shieber, Ralph Weischedel, ScottWeinstein, and the anonymous reviewers forComputational Linguistics.
Whatever errors remain are,of course, all ours.This paper was made possible by a gift from theSystem Development Foundation.
Support was alsoprovided for the second author by the AdvancedResearch Projects Agency of the Department of Defenseand was monitored by ONR under Contract No.N00014-85-C-0079.
The views and conclusions containedin this document are those of the authors and should notbe interpreted as necessarily representing the officialpolicies, either expressed or implied, of the DefenseAdvanced Research Projects Agency or the U.S. Govern-ment.REFERENCESAllen, J.F.
1979 A Plan-based Approach to Speech Act Recognition.Technical Report 131, Department of Computer Science, Universityof Toronto, Toronto, Canada.Allen, J.F.
1983 Recognizing Intentions from Natural Language Utter-ances.
In Brady, M. and Berwick, R.C., Eds., Computational Modelsof Discourse.
MIT Press: 107-166.Allen, J.F.
and Perrault, C.R.
1980 Analyzing intention in dialogues.Artificial Intelligence 15(3): 143-178.Appelt, D. 1985 Planning English Referring Expressions.
ArtificialIntelligence 26: 1-33.Butterworth, B.
1975 Hesitation and semantic planning in speech.Journal of Psycholinguistic Research (4): 75-87.Chafe, Wallace L. 1979 The Flow of Thought and the Flow ofLanguage.
In Givon.
T., Ed., Syntax and Semantics, Vol.
12,Discourse and Syntax.
Academic Press, New York, New York: 159-182.Chafe, W.L.
1980 The Deployment of Consciousness in the Productionof a Narrative.
In Chafe, W.L., Ed., The Pear Stories: Cognitive,Cultural and Linguistic Aspects of Narrative Production.
Vol.
3.Advances in Discourse Processes.
Ablex Publishing Corp, Norwood,New Jersey: 9-50.Cohen, P.R.
and Levesque, H.L.
1980 Speech Acts and the Recogni-tion of Shared Plans.
Proceedings of the Third Biennial Conference ofthe Canadian Society for Computational Studies of Intelligence.
Victo-ria, British Columbia: 263-271.Cohen, R. 1983 A Computational Model for the Analysis of Argu-ments..Technical Report CSRG-151, Computer Systems ResearchGroup, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.Cohen, P.R.
and Levesque, H.J.
1985 Speech Acts and Rationality.Proceedings of 23rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.
Chicago, Illinois: 49-60.Firbas, J.
1971 On the Concept of Communicative Dynamism in theTheory of Functional Sentence Perspective.
Brno Studies in English,Vol.
7.
Brno University, Brno, Czechloslovakia: 12-47.Goldman, A.I.
1970 A Theory of Human Action.
Princeton UniversityPress, Princeton, New Jersey.Grice, H.P.
1969 Utterer's Meaning and Intentions.
PhilosophicalReview 68(2): 147-177.Grimes, J.E.
1975 The Thread of Discourse.
Mouton Press, The Hague,Netherlands.Grosz, Barbara \[Deutsch\] 1974 The Structure of Task OrientedDialogs.
In IEEE Symposium on Speech Recognition: ContributedPapers.
Carnegie Mellon University Computer Science Dept., Pitts-burgh, Pennsylvania: 250-253.Grosz, B.J.
1977 The representation a d use of focus in dialogueunderstanding.
Technical Report 151, Artificial Intelligence Center,sri International, Menlo Park, California.Grosz, B.J.
1978a Discourse Analysis.
In .,Walker, D., Ed.
: 235-268.Grosz, B.J.
1978b Focusing in Dialog.
Theoretical Issues in NaturalLanguage Processing-2.
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,Champaign, Illinois: 96-103.Grosz, B.J.
1981 Focusing and Description in Natural LanguageDialogues.
In Joshi, A.; Webber, B.; and Sag, I., Eds., Elements ofDiscourse Understanding.
Cambridge University Press, New York,New York: 84-105.Grosz, B.J.
; Joshi, A.K.
; and Weinstein, S. 1983 Providing a UnifiedAccount of Definite Noun Phrases in Discourse.
Proceedings of the21st Annual Meeting of the Associa)ion for Computational Linguistics.Cambridge, Massachusetts: 44-50.Haji~ov~i, E. 1983 Topic and Focus.
Theoretical Linguistics 10(2/3):268-276.Hendrix, G.G.
1979 Encoding Knowledge in Partitioned Networks.
InFindler, N. V., Ed., The Representation and Use of Knowledge inComputers.
Academic Press, New York, New York: 51-92.Hirschberg, J. and Pierrehumbert, J.
1986 The Intonational Structuringof Discourse.
Proceedings of the 24th Annual Meeting of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.
New York, New York: 136-144.Hobbs, J.
1979 Coherence and Co-reference.
Cognitive Science 3(1):67-82.Holmes, H.W.
and Gallagher, O.
1917 Composition and Rhetoric.
D.Appleton and Co., New York, New York.Linde, C. and Goguen, J.
1978 Structure of Planning Discourse.
J.Social BioL Struct.
1: 219-251.Linde, C. 1979 Focus of Attention and the Choice of Pronouns inDiscourse.
In Givon, T., Ed., Syntax and Semantics, Vol.
12,Discourse and Syntax.
Academic Press, New York, New York: 337-354.Litman, Diane.
1985 Plan Recognition and Discourse Analysis: AnIntegrated Approach for Understanding Dialogues.
PhD disserta-tion, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York.Mann, W.C.; Moore, M.A.
; Levin, J.A.
; and Carlisle, J.H.
1975Observation Methods for Human Dialogue.
Technical ReportRR/75/33, Information Sciences Institute, Marina del Rey, CA.Mann, W.C. and Thompson, S.A. 1983 Relational Propositions inDiscourse.
Technical Report RR-83-115, Information SciencesInstitute, Marina del Rey, CA.Marcus, M.P.
; Hindel, D.; and Fleck, M.M.
1983 D-Theory: Talkingabout Talking about Trees.
Proceedings of the 21st Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics.
Cambridge, MA: 129-136.McKeown, Kathleen R. 1985 Text Generation.
Cambridge UniversityPress, New York, New York.Polanyi, L. and Scha, R. 1983 On the Recursive Structure ofDiscourse.
In Ehlich, K. and van Riemsdijk, H., Eds., Connectednessin Sentence, Discourse and Text.
Tilburg University, Tilburg:141-178.Polanyi, L. and Scha, R. 1984 A Syntactic Approach to DiscourseSemantics.
Proceedings of International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics.
Stanford University, Stanford, CA: 413-419.Polanyi, L. and Scha, R.J.H.
forthcoming Discourse Syntax andSemantics.
In Polanyi, L., Ed., The Structure of Discourse.
AblexPublishing Co., Norwood, New Jersey.Pollack, Martha E. 1986 Inferring Domain Plans in Question-Answer-ing.
PhD dissertation, University of Pennsylvania.Reichman, R. 1981 Plain-speaking: A theory and grammar of sponta-neous discourse.
PhD dissertation, Department of ComputerScience, Harvard University.
Also, BBN Report No.
4681, BoltBeranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986 203Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner Attention, Intentions, and the Structure of DiscourseReichman-Adar, R. 1984 Extended Person-Machine Interface.
Artifi-cial Intelligence 22(2): 157-218.Reinhart, T. 1981 Pragmatics and Linguistics: An Analysis of SentenceTopics.
Philosophica 27( 1 ):53-94.Robinson, A.
1981 Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogs.American Journal of  Computational Linguistics 7 (1): 1-16.Schank, R.C.
; Collins, G.C.
; Davis, E.; Johnson, P.N.
; Lytinen, S.; andReiser, B.J.
1982 What's the Point?
Cognitive Science 6(3):255-275.Sgall, P.; Haji~ov~i, E.; and Benesova, E. 1973 Topic, Focus and Gener-ative Semantics.
Scripter Verlag, GMbH, and Co, Kronberg, Taunus,East Germany.Sidner, C.L.
1979 Towards a Computational Theory of DefiniteAnaphora Comprehension i  English Discourse.
Technical Report537, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Sidner, C.L.
1982 Protocols of Users Manipulating Visually PresentedInformation with Natural Language.
Technical Report 5128, BoltBeranek and Newman Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts.Sidner, C.L.
1983 What the Speaker Means: The Recognition ofSpeakers' Plans in Discourse.
International Journal of  Computers andMathematics, Special Issue in Computational Linguistics 9(1):71-82.Sidner, C.L.
1985 Plan Parsing for Intended Response Recognition inDiscourse.
Computational Intelligence 1(1): 1-10.Sidner, C.L.
and Israel, D.J.
1981 Recognizing Intended Meaning andSpeaker's Plans.
Proceedings of the Seventh International JointConference in Artificial Intelligence.
University of British Colum-bia, British Columbia, Canada: 203-208.Walker, D. 1978 Understanding Spoken Language.
Elsevier North-Hol-land, New York, New York.Wittgenstein,L.
1953 Philosophical Investigations.
Oxford UniversityPress, London, England.NOTES1.
The use of the phrase "linguistic structure" to refer to the struc-ture of sequences of utterances i a natural extension of its use intraditional linguistic theories to refer to the syntactic structure ofindividual sentences.
To avoid confusion the phrase "linguisticstructure" will be used in this paper only to refer to the structureof a sequence of utterances composing a discourse or discoursesegment.2.
Mann has also reported that the subjects did not label segmentsnearly so consistently.
We believe this fact is related to the kindsof relations the labels were dependent upon.
As discussed inSection 7.4, there is a difference between the intentional structurewe describe and the relations that others use.3.
Referring expressions can also be used to mark a discourse bound-ary.
For example, novelists ometimes use pronouns to indicate anew scene in a story.4.
These two relations are similar to ones that play a role in parsingat the sentence l vel: immediate dominance and linear precedence.However, the dominance relation, like the one in Marcus andHindle's D-theory (Marcus et al 1983), is partial (i.e., nonimme-diate).5.
Even in the task case the orderings may be partial.
In fact, thesystems built for task-oriented dialogues (Robinson 1981, Walker1978) did not use a prebuilt ree, but constructed the tree - basedon a partially-ordered model - only as a given discourse volved.6.
The observant reader will note that this was written in the earlydays of the cinema, before the advent of sound; hence the quota-tion marks around "movies."
Note also that utterance (7) containsa somewhat odd preposition, and utterance (16) somewhat odddefinite noun phrases.
We have quoted the text exactly as it wasprinted.7.
The segmentation mits some levels of detail.
For example, utter-ances 19-24 are a segment within DSS.
Rather than present hisdetail, we concentrate on the larger segments here so as to focuson the major issues with which this paper is concerned.8.
This modification "folds in" an informing action with the request.Such combining of two types of speech acts is similar to the actionsubsumption that Appelt (1985) discusses in regard to referringexpressions.9.
Hirschberg and Pierrehumbert (1986) have shown recently thatintonational features, most notably pitch range, can also be usedto indicate discourse segment boundaries.10.
We assume here that the OCP must recognize intentions ratherthan actions.
The argument that such is the case is beyond thescope of this paper.
At a very general evel, it centers on thepossibility that the very same sequence of utterance actions willcorrespond to two different discourse structures with the differ-ence statable only in terms of the ICP's intentions.
The possibilityof such sequences was suggested to us by Michael Bratman\[personal communication\].
The irony contained in such a clause asyou're a real sweetheart illustrates the need to consider intentions.11.
This knowledge may be available prior to the discourse or frominformation supplied by previous utterances in the discourse.12.
This boundary is clearly atypical of stacks.
It suggests that ulti-mately the stack model is not quite what is needed.
What struc-ture should replace the stack remains unclear to us.13.
Because this is so clearly the case on other grounds, the segmentboundary is obvious even to a reader after the fact.14.
From just the fragment presented, all that can be determined isthat the two dominates relationships are domination but not directdomination.15.
OK is many ways ambiguous.
It may also mean (at least) I heardwhat you said, !
heard and intend to do what you intend me to intend,1 am done what I undertook to do, or I approve what you are about todo.16.
This portion is taken from Redefinition IVB: a further edefinitiondeals with abstracting about audience and would unnecessarilycomplicate our initial view of intentions and discourse.17.
Grice (1969) mentions iconic, conventional, and associativemodes, giving examples of each.18.
This analogy is meant o help clarify and motivate the discussion.Although it also suggests ome important problems in commonbetween research on discourse and research on theories of actionand intention, those issues are the subject of another paper.19.
Here again we use a notational shorthand rather than a formallanguage to make some of the relationships clearer.20.
This claim reflects a move analogous to the one made by Cohenand Levesque (1985) in showing that the definitions of variousspeech acts can be derived as lemmas within a general theory ofrational behavior.204 Computational Linguistics, Volume 12, Number 3, July-September 1986
