TECHNICAL  CORRESPONDENCESUBJECT-VERB AGREEMENT IN RESPECTIVECOORDINATIONS AND CONTEXT-FREENESSLangendoen (1977) advanced an argument againstEnglish being a context-free language involving cross-serial subject-verb agreement in respectively constructionssuch as (1).
(1) The man and the women dances and sing,respectively.As noted by Pullum and Gazdar (1982), however, andacknowledged subsequently by Langendoen (personalcommunication), such examples are unacceptable, andthe argument collapses on empirical grounds.However, at least some speakers reject examples like(2) as well.
(2) The man and the women dance and sing,respectively.This fact leads directly to a demonstration that there is,after all, a cross-serial dependency involving the gram-matical number of subject NPs and verbs in respectivelyconstructions.
However, it is not clear at present howrepresentative such speakers are, and so instead ofmaking claims about English in general, we will confinethem to just those varieties of the language that stigma-tize examples like (2), which will be denoted as English1,leaving to one side any varieties of which this may not betrue (English2).
IIn English1, a verb that formally distinguishes singularfrom plural, i.e., a non-auxiliary present tense verb,cannot occur in a respectively construction if the corre-sponding subject NP is singular.
This cannot beaccounted for merely by barring marked singular verbsfrom occurring in coordinate predicates of respectivelyconstructions.
Such a move would correctly excludeexamples like (1), but it would allow sentences like (2),with plural verbs corresponding to singular subjects.Nor is it possible to simply bar singular subjects fromoccurring in respectively constructions, since they areperfectly possible provided the corresponding verb iseither a past tense, as in (3a), or an auxiliary, as in (3b).
(3) a.The man and the women danced and sing,respectively.b.The women and the man sing and can dance,respectively.This means that a singular subject can only co-occurwith a past tense or an auxiliary verb, whereas a pluralsubject can take a non-auxiliary present tense verb aswell.
The difference in the co-occurrence possibilities ofsingular as opposed to plural subject NPs amounts to apeculiar kind of number agreement.
2 This fact leadsquite directly to a demonstration that English 1 is notcontext free.
3Consider the regular set (4).
(4) {the man x and the women danced y and singrespectively \[ x e {the man, the women}+; y E{danced, sing} + }This is the set of all strings 4 (only some of them gram-matical in English) consisting of .any number of occur-rences in any order of the phrases the man and thewomen, with an and between the last two, followed byany number of occurrences in any order of the wordsdanced and sing, with an and between the last two,followed by the word respectively.According to what has been said, the intersection of(4) with English 1 must be (5).
(5) {the man x and the women danced y and singrespectively I x ?
{the man, the women}+; y =%(x) ?
{danced, sing}+; ol(the man) = {danced};% (the women) = {danced, sing}}This is the set of all those strings of (4) that meet theadditional condition that every occurrence of the manmust be matched by an occurrence of danced and everyoccurrence of the women by an occurrence of eitherdanced or sing.
This matching is achieved by defining thesubstitution s o~ of the man to be the set {danced} and thatof the women to be the set {danced, sing} and requiring yto be equal to o 1 of x.We now define a substitution o 2 such thato2(the man) = {a}oz(the woman) = {b}oz(danced) = {c}o2(sing) = {d}oz(and ) = {~}6o2(respectively) = {~}This substitution maps (5) to (6).
(6) {a x b c y d I x e {a, b}+;y = 03 c {c, d}+; o3(a ) = c; o3(b) = {c, d}&rbrc.We now intersect (6) with the regular set{a + b + a + c + d + c +}to obtain (7).
(7) {a nb ma Ic kd jc  i I n < k ;m < j;l _< i ;n+m+l=k+j+i}The set in (7) can be shown trans-context-free bypumping.
Take the string z = akbkakckdkc  (where k isthe constant of the pumping lemma).
On the one hand,if we pump only in the first or only in the second half ofthe string, the resulting string will violate the conditionthat n + m + l=  k + j+ i.
On the other hand, sincek64 Computational Linguistics, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2, January-June 1987Technical Correspondence A Note on a Study of Casesis the constant of the pumping lemma, the pumpedsubstring cannot be longer than k, and therefore the onlyother place we might be able to pump would be in themiddle as and the middle cs, But this would result inviolating the condition that l may not be greater than i.Thus, z cannot be pumped without violating the pumpinglemma, and hence (7) is not context free.
Sincecontext-free languages are closed under intersection withregular sets, it follows that (6) is not context-free ither.Since context-free languages are also closed under substi-tution, this means that (5) is also not context-free.
Final-ly, since (5) is the intersection of English, with theregular set (4), it follows that Englishj is not context-free.
Q.E.D.Alex is  Manaster -RamerComputer  Science DepartmentWayne State UniversityDetroit, MI 48202REFERENCESKac, M.B.
; Manaster-Ramer, A; and Rounds, W.C. 1987 Simultane-ous-Distributive Coordination and Context-Freeness.
Computa-tional Linguistics 13( I-2): 25-30.Langendoen, D.T.
1977 On the Inadequacy of Type-3 and Type-2Grammars for Human Languages.
In Hopper, P.J., Ed., Studies inDescriptive and Historical Linguistics: Festschrift for Win fred P.Lehman.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam: 159-172.Manaster-Ramcr, A.
1983 The Soft Formal Underbelly of TheoreticalSyntax.
CLS 19: 256-262.Manaster-Ramer, A.
In press.
Dutch as a Formal Language.
Linguis-tics and Philosophy 10.Pullunl, G. and Gazdar, G. 1982 Context-Free Languages and NaturalLanguages.
Linguistics and Philosophy 4:471-504.NOTES1.
Pullum and Gazdar (1982) state that they "'can tolerate" exampleslike (2), and Langcndoen (personal communication) agrees.2.
In other terms, we must be able to tell which verb would agree withwhich subject given the chance, and disallow just those combina-tions where the result would be a marked singular verb.3.
Ignoring, for the sake of simplicity, the arguments advanced inManaster-Ramer (1983; in press) about the need to state formalresults about natural language inother than weak generative capaci-ty terms.4.
Ignoring, for the sake of readability, the punctuation that wouldnormally be required in written English and the suprasegmentalfeatures that would occur in the spoken language.5.
In the discussions of formal properties of natural languages, ubsti-tutions have not figured at all prominently, whereas homomor-phisms, which are just a special case of substitutions, have.
it maybe helpful, therefore, to point out that a substitution is a mappinglike a homomorphism except hat it is usually denoted by o ratherthan h and that it may associate each element in the vocabulary of alanguage with a whole set (possibly infinite) of strings rather thanwith just one string, as in the case of a homomorphism.
In the pres-ent case, we needed to employ a (slightly more general kind of)substitution i order to be able to associate the women with sing aswell as danced.
It should also be noted that, while the man and thewomen are linguistically analyzable, we have for technical conven-ience treated them as single elements of the terminal vocabulary indcl'ining Ihc substitutions.6.
)~ denotes the empty string.A NOTE ON A STUDY OF CASESThis note describes and illustrates a study of deepcases using a large sample of sentences.
The purposeof the note is to draw attention to the value of thesource material used for those interested in case-based representations of sentence meaning, and toindicate the potential utility of the study results.The purpose of this note is to draw attention to the utilityof a specific source of data relevant to the use of case-based meaning representations in language processing, byillustrating the way we have exploited this source.Like many others, we have used a language analyserthat builds meaning representations expressing semanticcase roles; specifically, Boguraev's (1979) analyser buildsdependency trees with word senses defined by semanticcategory primitive formulae, and with case labels, i.e.,semantic relation primitives, on the constituents of verb(and some other) structures.Using the analyser for more varied and demandingpurposes than Boguraev's original tests (see, e.g., Bogu-raev and Sparck Jones 1983) left us dissatisfied with theoriginal set of case relations.
We therefore carried out adetailed analysis of a large sample of English sentencesto evaluate our proposals for a better-founded and morecomprehensive s t of case relations.
This study exploitedF.T.
Wood's  "Engl ish prepositional idioms" (Wood1967), which provides a careful account, supported byextensive examples, of the uses of English prepositionsand preposition-l ike t rms.
For instance,WITHIN(1) InsideWithin the house all was quiet.The Kingdom of God is within you.
(2) Amongst the members of a group.Opinion within the profession is divided.
(3) Inside specified bounds or limits.They were ordered to remain within the precincts ofthe college.The scholarship is open to anyone residing within fiftymiles of the university.He always strove to live within his income.Our study was intended to establish both the justifica-tion for each case relation individually, by reference to arange of sentences, and the plausibility of the set ofrelations as a whole, by reference to the complete set ofsentences.
Looking at Wood's  description of a preposi-tion's sense, and its accompanying illustration(s), wetried to assign a case label to the link between thesentence lements made by the preposition which we feltcaptured the essential nature of that link, at the level ofgenerality represented by a set of 20-30 cases.
Thus" locat ion"  would be the label associated with a numberof specific space-relation prepositions, e.g., above, at, by.The study was primarily concerned with prepositionally-Computational Linguistics, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2, January-June 1987 65
