COMMONSENSE METAPHYSICS  AND LEX ICAL  SEMANTICSJerry R. Hobbs ,  Wi l l iam Croft ,  Todd  Davies,Doug las  Edwards ,  and Kenneth  LawsArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI InternationalIn the TACITUS project for using commonsense knowledge in the understanding of texts aboutmechanical devices and their failures, we have been developing various commonsense theories that areneeded to mediate between the way we talk about the behavior of such devices and causal models of theiroperation.
Of central importance in this effort is the axiomatization of what might be called"commonsense metaphysics".
This includes a number of areas that figure in virtually every domain ofdiscourse, such as granularity, scales, time, space, material, physical objects, shape, causality,functionality, and force.
Our effort has been to construct core theories of each of these areas, and thento define, or at least characterize, a large number of lexical items in terms provided by the core theories.In this paper we discuss our methodological principles and describe the key ideas in the various domainswe are investigating.1.
INTRODUCTIONIn the TACITUS project for using commonsense knowl-edge in the understanding of texts about mechanicaldevices and their failures, we have been developingvarious commonsense theories that are needed to me-diate between the way we talk about the behavior ofsuch devices and causal models of their operation.
Ofcentral importance in this effort is the axiomatization fwhat might be called "commonsense metaphysics".This includes a number of areas that figure in virtuallyevery domain of discourse, such as scalar notions,granularity, time, space, material, physical objects,causality, functionality, force, and shape.
Our approachto lexical semantics i to construct core theories of eachof these areas, and then to define, or at least character-ize, a large number of lexical items in terms provided bythe core theories.
In the TACITUS system, processesfor solving pragmatics problems posed by a text will usethe knowledge base consisting of these theories, inconjunction with the logical forms of the sentences inthe text, to produce an interpretation.
I  this paper wedo not stress these interpretation processes; this isanother, important aspect of the TACITUS project, andit will be described in subsequent papers (Hobbs andMartin, 1987).This work represents a convergence of research inlexical semantics in linguistics and efforts in artificialintelligence to encode commonsense knowledge.
Overthe years, lexical semanticists have developed formal-isms of increasing adequacy for encoding word mean-ing, progressing from simple sets of features (Katz andFodor, 1963) to notations for predicate-argument struc-ture (Lakoff, 1972; Miller and Johnson-Laird, 1976), butthe early attempts till limited access to world knowl-edge and assumed only very restricted sorts of process-ing.
Workers in computational linguistics introducedinference (Rieger, 1974; Schank, 1975) and other com-plex cognitive processes (Herskovits, 1982) into ourunderstanding of the role of word meaning.
Recentlylinguists have given greater attention to the cognitiveprocesses that would operate on their representations(e.g., Talmy, 1983; Croft, 1986).
Independently, in arti-ficial intelligence an effort arose to encode large amountsof commonsense knowledge (Hayes, 1979; Hobbs andMoore, 1985; Hobbs et al 1985).
The research reportedhere represents a convergence of these various devel-opments.
By constructing core theories of certain fun-damental phenomena and defining lexical items withinthese theories, using the full power of predicate calcu-lus, we are able to cope with complexities of wordmeaning that have hitherto escaped lexical semanticists.Moreover, we can do this within a framework that givesfull scope to the planning and reasoning processes thatmanipulate representations of word meaning.Copyright 1987 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission tocopy without fee all or part of this material is granted providedthat he copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
Tocopy otherwise, orto republish, requires afee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/87/030241-250503.00Computational Linguistics Volume 13, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1987 241Jerry R. Hobbs et al Commonsense Metaphysics and Lexical SemanticsIn constructing the core theories we are attempting toadhere to several methodological principles:1.
One should aim for characterization f concepts,rather than definition.
One cannot generally expect tofind necessary and sufficient conditions for a concept.The most we can hope for is to find a number ofnecessary conditions and a number of sufficient condi-tions.
This amounts to saying that a great many predi-cates are primitives, but they are primitives that arehighly interrelated with the rest of the knowledge base.2.
One should determine the minimal structure nec-essary for a concept to make sense.
In efforts toaxiomatize an area, there are two positions one maytake, exemplified by set theory and by group theory.
Inaxiomatizing set theory, one attempts to capture xactlysome concept hat one has strong intuitions about.
If theaxiomatization turns out to have unexpected models,this exposes an inadequacy.
In group theory, by con-trast, one characterizes an abstract class of structures.If it turns out that there are unexpected models, this isa serendipitous discovery of a new phenomenon that wecan reason about using an old theory.
The pervasivecharacter of metaphor in natural language discourseshows that our commonsense theories of the worldought to be much more like group theory than settheory.
By seeking minimal structures in axiomatizingconcepts, we optimize the possibilities of using thetheories in metaphorical and analogical contexts.
Thisprinciple is illustrated below in the section on regions.One consequence of this principle is that our approachwill seem more syntactic than semantic.
We haveconcentrated more on specifying axioms than on con-strncting models.
Our view is that the chief role ofmodels in our effort is for proving the consistency andindependence of sets of axioms, and for showing theiradequacy.
As an example of the lastpoint, many of thespatial and temporal theories we construct are intendedat least to have Euclidean space or the real numbers asone model, and a subclass of graph-theoretical struc-tures as other models.3.
A balance must be struck between attempting tocover all cases and aiming only for the prototypicalcases.
In general, we have tried to cover as many casesas possible with an elegant axiomatization, in line withthe two previous principles, but where the formalizationbegins to look baroque, we assume that higher pro-cesses will block some inferences in the marginal cases.We assume that inferences will be drawn in a controlledfashion.
Thus, every outr6, highly context-dependentcounterexample need not be accounted for, and to acertain extent, definitions can be geared specifically to aprototype.4.
Where competing ontologies uggest themselves ina domain, one should try to construct a theory thataccommodates both.
Rather than commit oneself toadopting one set of primitives rather than another, oneshould show how either set can be characterized interms of the other.
Generally, each of the ontologies isuseful for different purposes, and it is convenient to beable to appeal to both.
Our treatment of time illustratesthis.5.
The theories one constructs hould be richer inaxioms than in theorems.
In mathematics, one expectsto state half a dozen axioms and prove dozens oftheorems from them.
In encoding commonsense knowl-edge, it seems to be just the opposite.
The theorems weseek to prove on the basis of these axioms are theoremsabout specific situations that are to be interpreted, inparticular, theorems about a text that the system isattempting to understand.6.
One should avoid falling into "black holes".
Thereare a few "myster ious"  concepts that crop up repeat-edly in the formalization of commonsense metaphysics.Among these are "re levant"  (that is, relevant o thetask at hand) and "normat ive"  (that is, conforming tosome norm or pattern).
To insist upon giving a satisfac-tory analysis of these before using them in analyzingother concepts is to cross the event horizon that sepa-rates lexical semantics from philosophy.
On the otherhand, our experience suggests that to avoid their useentirely is crippling; the lexical semantics of a widevariety of other terms depends upon them.
Instead, wehave decided to leave them minimally analyzed for themoment and use them without scruple in the analysis ofother commonsense concepts.
This approach will allowus to accumulate many examples of the use of thesemysterious concepts, and in the end, contribute to theirsuccessful analysis.
The use of these concepts appearsbelow in the discussions of the words " immediately" ,"sample" ,  and "operate" .We chose as an initial target he problem of encodingthe commonsense knowledge that underlies the conceptof "wear" ,  as in a part of a device wearing out.
Our aimwas to define "wear"  in terms of predicates character-ized elsewhere in the knowledge base and to be able toinfer some consequences of wear.
For something towear, we decided, is for it to lose imperceptible bits ofmaterial from its surface due to abrasive action overtime.
One goal, which we have not yet achieved, is to beable to prove as a theorem that, since the shape of a partof a mechanical device is often functional and since lossof material can result in a change of shape, wear of apart of a device can cause the failure of the device as awhole.
In addition, as we have proceeded, we havecharacterized a number of words found in a set of targettexts, as it has become possible.We are encoding the knowledge as axioms in what isfor the most part a first-order logic, described by Hobbs(1985a), although quantification over predicates issometimes convenient.
In the formalism there is anominalization operator .
.
.
.
.
for reifying events andconditions, as expressed in the following axiom schema:(Vx)p(x) =- (3e)p'(e,x) A Exist(e)That is, p is true of x if and only if there is a conditione o fp ' s  being true o fx  and e exists in the real world.242 Computational Linguistics Volume 13, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1987Jerry R. Hobbs et al Commonsense Metaphysics and Lexicai SemanticsIn our implementation so far, we have been provingsimple theorems from our axioms using the CG5 theo-rem-prover developed by Mark Stickel (1982), and weare now beginning to use the knowledge base in textprocessing.2 REQUIREMENTS ON ARGUMENTS OF PREDICATESThere is a notational convention used below that de-serves some explanation.
It has frequently been notedthat relational words in natural anguage can take onlycertain types of words as their arguments.
These areusually described as selectional constraints.
The same istrue of predicates in our knowledge base.
The con-straints are expressed below by rules of the formp(x,y) : r(x,y)This means that for p even to make sense applied to xand y, it must be the case that r is true of x and y. Thelogical import of this rule is that wherever there is anaxiom of the form(V x,y)p(x,y) D q(x,y)this is really to be read as(V x,y)p(x,y) /% r(x,y) ~ q(x,y)The checking of selectional constraints, therefore,emerges as a by-product of other logical operations: theconstraint r(x,y) must be verified if anything else is to beproved from p(x,y).The simplest example of such an r(x,y) is a conjunc-tion of sort constraints rl(x)/% r2(y).
Our approach is ageneralization of this, because much more complexrequirements can be placed on the arguments.
Con-sider, for example, the verb "range".
I fx  ranges from yto z, there must be a scale s that includes y and z, and xmust be a set of entities that are located at variousplaces on the scale.
This can be represented as follows:range(x,y,z) : (3 s) \[scale(s)/% y E s/% z E s/% set(x)/% (V u)\[u ~ x D (3 v) v E s/% at(u,v)\]\]3 THE KNOWLEDGE BASE3.1 SETS AND GRANULARITYAt the foundation of the knowledge base is an axioma-tization of set theory.
It follows the standard Zermelo-Fraenkel approach, except that there is no axiom ofinfinity.Since so many concepts used in discourse are grain-dependent, a theory of granularity is also fundamental(see Hobbs 1985b).
A grain is defined in terms of anindistinguishability relation, which is reflexive and sym-metric, but not necessarily transitive.
One grain can bea ref inement of another, with the obvious definition.The most refined grain is the identity grain, i.e., the onein which every two distinct elements are distinguish-able.
One possible relationship between two grains, oneof which is a refinement of the other, is what we call an"Archimedean relation", after the Archimedean prop-erty of real numbers.
Intuitively, if enough events occurthat are imperceptible at the coarser grain g2 but per-ceptible at the finer grain g~, the aggregate will eventu-ally be perceptible at the coarser grain.
This is animportant property in phenomena subject to the heapparadox.
Wear, for instance, eventually has significantconsequences.3.2 SCALESA great many of the most common words in Englishhave scales as their subject matter.
This includes manyprepositions, the most common adverbs, comparatives,and many abstract verbs.
When spatial vocabulary isused metaphorically, it is generally the scalar aspect Ofspace that carries over to the target domain.
A scale isdefined as a set of elements, together with a partialordering and a granularity (or an indistinguishabilityrelation).
The partial ordering and the indistinguishabil-ity relation are consistent with each other:(Vx ,y ,z )  x < y A y ~ z D x < zV  x ~ zThat is, i fx is less than y and y is indistinguishable fromz, then either x is less than z or x is indistinguishablefrom z.It is useful to have an adjacency relation betweenpoints on a scale, and there are a number of ways wecould introduce it.
We could simply take it to beprimitive; in a scale having a distance function, wecould define two points to be adjacent when the distancebetween them is less than some E; finally, we coulddefine adjacency in terms of the grain size for the scale:(V x,y,s) adj(x,y,s) =-(3z) Z - s  X /% Z - s  y /% ~ \[x - s Y\],That is, distinguishable elements x and y are adjacent onscale s if and only if there is an element z which isindistinguishable from both.Two important possible properties of scales are con-nectedness and denseness.
We can say that two ele-ments of a scale are connected by a chain of adjrelations:(Vx,y,s)connected(x,y,s)  -adj(x,y,s) V (3z)adj(x,z,s) /% connected(z,y,s)A scale is connected (sconnected) if all pairs of elementsare connected.
A scale is dense if between any twopoints there is a third point, until the two points are soclose together that the grain size no longer allows us todetermine whether such an intermediate point exists.Cranking up the magnification could well resolve thecontinuous space into a discrete set, as objects intoatoms.
(Vs)dense(s) =-(Vx,y)x E s /% y E s /% x <s yD(3z)(x <s z/% z <s Y) V (3z)(x ~s  z/% z ~s  Y)This expresses the commonsense notion of continuity.Computational Linguistics Volume 13, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1987 243Jerry R. Hobbs et al Commonsense Metaphysics and Lexical SemanticsA subscale of a scale has as its elements a subset ofthe elements of the scale and has as its partial orderingand its grain the partial ordering and the grain of thescale.
(V sx,s2)subscale(s2,s 0 = subset(s2,s 0A (Vx,y)\[\[x <sl Y =- x <s2 Y\] A \[x ~sl Y -~ x ~s2 Y\]\]An interval can be defined as a connected subscale:(Vi)interval(i) =- (3s)scale(s)A subscale(i,s) A sconnected(i)The relations between time intervals that Allen andKautz (1985) have defined can be defined in a straight-forward manner in the approach presented here, but forintervals in general.A concept closely related to scales is that of a"cyc le" .
This is a system that has a natural orderinglocally but contains a loop globally.
Examples are thecolor wheel, clock times, and geographical locationsordered by "east of" .
We have axiomatized cycles interms of a ternary between relation whose axiomsparallel those for a partial ordering.The figure-ground relationship is of fundamental im-portance in language.
We encode it with the primitivepredicate at.
It is possible that the minimal structurenecessary for something to be a ground is that of a scale;hence, this is a selectional constraint on the argumentsof at.
1at(x,y) : (3s)y E s A scale(s)At this point, we are already in a position to define somefairly complex words.
As an illustration, we give theexample of " range"  as in "x  ranges from y to z":(Vx,y,z)range(x,y,z) =-(3s,st,ut,uz)scale(s) A subscale(sl,s )A bottom(y,s 0 A top(z,sOAu I E x A at(ut,y ) A u 2 E x A at(u2,z)A (Vu)\[u ~ x ~ (3v)v ~ s I A at(u,v)\]That is, x ranges from y to z if and only i fy and z are thebottom and top o fa  subscale s~ of some scale s and x isa set which has elements at y and z and all of whoseelements are located at points on s~.A very important scale is the linearly ordered scale ofnumbers.
We do not plan to reason axiomatically aboutnumbers, but it is useful in natural anguage processingto have encoded a few facts about numbers.
For exam-ple, a set has a cardinality which is an element of thenumber scale.Verticality is a concept hat would most properly beanalyzed in the section on space, but it is a property thatmany other scales have acquired metaphorically, forwhatever eason.
The number scale is one of these.Even in the absence of an analysis of verticality, it is aHowever, we are currently examining an approach inwhich a moreabstract oncept, "system", discussed inSection 3.6.3, is taken to bethe minimal structure for expressing location.useful property to have as a primitive in lexical seman-tics.The word "h igh" is a vague term asserting that anentity is in the upper region of some scale.
It requiresthat the scale be a vertical one, such as the numberscale.
The verticality requirement distinguishes "h igh"from the more general term "very" ;  we can say "veryhard" but not "highly hard".
The phrase "highlyplanar" sounds all right because the high register of"planar"  suggests a quantifiable, scientific accuracy,whereas the low register of "f lat" makes "highly flat"sound much worse.The test of any definition is whether it allows one todraw the appropriate inferences.
In our target exts, thephrase "high usage" occurs.
Usage is a set of usingevents, and the verticality requirement on "h igh"forces us to coerce the phrase into "a  high or largenumber of using events".
Combining this with an axiomstating that the use of a mechanical device involves thelikelihood of abrasive events, as defined below, andwith the definition of "wear"  in terms of abrasiveevents, we should be able to conclude the likelihood ofwear.3.3 TIME: TWO ONTOLOGIESThere are two possible ontologies for time.
In the first,the one most acceptable to the mathematically minded,there is a time line, which is a scale having sometopological structure.
We can stipulate the time line tobe linearly ordered (although it is not in approaches thatbuild ignorance of relative times into the representationof time (e.g., Hobbs, 1974) nor in approaches employingbranching futures (e.g., McDermott, 1985)), and we canstipulate it to be dense (although it is not in the situationcalculus).
We take before to be the ordering on the timeline:(V q ,t2)bef ore( q ,t2) =-(3T)Time-line(T) A t I ~ T A t 2 E T A t I < T t2We allow both instants and intervals of time.
Mostevents occur at some instant or during some interval.
Inthis approach, nearly every predicate takes a timeargument.In the second ontology, the one that seems to bemore deeply rooted in language, the world consists of alarge number of more or less independent processes, orhistories, or sequences of events.
There is a primitiverelation change between conditions.
Thus,change(e 1,e2) A p'(e Z,x) A q'(ez,x )says that there is a change from the condition el o fp ' sbeing true of x to the condition e 2 of q's being true of x.The time line in this ontology is then an artificialconstruct, a regular sequence of imagined abstractevents (think of them as ticks of a clock in the NationalBureau of Standards) to which other events can berelated.
The change ontology seems to correspond tothe way we experience the world.
We recognize rela-tions of causality, change of state, and copresence244 Computational Linguistics Volume 13, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1987Jerry R. Hobbs et al Commonsense Metaphysics and Lexical Semanticsamong events and conditions.
When events are notrelated in these ways, judgments of relative time mustbe mediated by copresence r lations between the eventsand events on a clock and change of state relations onthe clock.The predicate change possesses a limited transitiv-ity.
There has been a change from Reagan's being anactor to Reagan's being president, even though he wasgovernor in between.
But we probably do not want tosay there has been a change from Reagan's being anactor to Margaret Thatcher's being prime minister, eventhough the second event comes after the first.In this ontology, we can say that any two times,viewed as events, always have a change relation be-tween them.
(Vq,ta)before(tl,t 2) D change(tl,t2)The predicate change is related to before by the axiom(Vel,e2) change(el,e2) D(:ltl,t2) at(el,t 0 A at(e2,t 2) A before(tl,t2)That is, if there is a change from e 1 to e 2, then there isa time t I at which e I occurred and a time t 2 at which e 2occurred, and t~ is before t 2.
This does not allow us toderive change of state from temporal succession.
Forthis, we would need axioms of the form(Vel,e2,tl,t2,x) p'(el,x ) A at(el,t 0A q'(ez,x ) A at(e2,t2) A before(t 1,t 2)D change(el,e 2)That is, if x is p at time t~ and q at a later time t 2, thenthere has been a change of state from one to the other.This axiom would not necessarily be true for all p's andq's.
Time arguments in predications can be viewed asabbreviations:(V x,t)p(x,t) - (3e)p'(e,x) A at(e,t)The word "move" ,  or the predicate move, (as in "xmoves from y to z") can then be defined equivalently interms of change,(V x,y,z)move(x,y,z) =-(=lel,e2) change(el,e2) A at'(el,x,y) A at'(ez,X,Z)or in terms of the time line,(V x,y,z) move(x,y,z) =-(3q,t2) at(x,y,t 0 A at(x,z,tz) A before(tl,t2)(The latter definition has to be complicated a bit toaccommodate cyclic motion.
The former axiom is allright as it stands, provided there is also an axiom sayingthat for there to be a change from a state to the samestate, there must be an intermediate different state.
)In English and apparently all other natural anguages,both ontologies are represented in the lexicon.
The timeline ontology is found in clock and calendar terms, tensesystems of verbs, and in the deictic temporal locativessuch as "yesterday" ,  " today" ,  " tomorrow" ,  "lastnight", and so on.
The change ontology is exhibited inmost verbs, and in temporal clausal connectives.
Theuniversal presence in natural anguages of both classesof lexical items and grammatical markers requires atheory that can accommodate both ontologies, illustrat-ing the importance of methodological principle 4.Among temporal connectives, the word "whi le"presents interesting problems.
In "e  I while e2", e2 mustbe an event occurring over a time interval; el must be anevent and may occur either at a point or over aninterval.
One's first guess is that the point or interval forel must be included in the interval for % However,there are cases, such asThe electricity should be off while the switch is beingrepaired.which suggest he reading "e  2 is included in e l " .
Wecame to the conclusion that one can infer no more thanthat el and e 2 overlap, and any tighter constraints resultfrom implicatures from background knowledge.The word " immediately",  as in "immediately afterthe alarm", also presents a number of problems.
Itrequires its argument e to be an ordering relationbetween two entities x and y on some scale s.immediate(e) : (3x,y,s)less-than'(e,x,y,s)It is not clear what the constraints on the scale are.Temporal and spatial scales are acceptable, as in "im-mediately after the alarm" and "immediately to theleft", but the size scale is not:* John is immediately larger than Bill.Etymologically, it means that there are no intermediateentities between x and y on s. Thus,(Ve,x,y,s) immediate(e) A less-than'(e,x,y,s)D --1 (3z)less-than(x,z,s) A less-than(z,y,s)However, this will only work if we restrict z to be arelevant entity.
For example, in the sentenceWe disengaged the compressor immediately after thealarm.the implication is that no event that could damage thecompressor occurred between the alarm and the disen-gagement, since the text is about equipment failure.3.4 SPACES AND DIMENSION: THE MINIMAL STRUCTUREThe notion of dimension has been made precise in linearalgebra.
Since the concept of a region is used metaphor-ically as well as in the spatial sense, however, we wereconcerned to determine the minimal structure a systemrequires for it to make sense to call it a space of morethan one dimension.
For a two-dimensional space, theremust be a scale, or partial ordering, for each dimension.Moreover, the two scales must be independent, in thatthe order of elements on one scale can not be deter-mined from their order on the other.
Formally,(V sp)space(sp) =-(:lSl,S2) scalel(sl,sP) A scale2(s2,sp)Computational Linguistics Volume 13, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1987 245Jerry R. Hobbs et al Commonsense Metaphysics and Lexical SemanticsJf fBCFigure 1.1 The Simplest Space.A (3x)\[(3yt) \[x <s, Yi A x <s2 Yl\]A (::ly2)\[x <s, A Yz A Y2 <s2 x\]\]Note that this does not allow <,2 to be simply thereverse of <s.
An unsurprising consequence of thisdefinition is that the minimal example of a two-dimen-sional space consists of three points (three points deter-mine a plane), e.g., the points A, B, and C, whereA<IB ,  A<IC ,  C<2A,  A<2 B.This is illustrated in Figure 1.The dimensional scales are apparently found in allnatural languages in relevant domains.
The familiarthree-dimensional space of common sense can be de-fined by the three scale pairs "up-down", "front-back", and "left-right"; the two-dimensional plane ofthe commonsense conception of the earth's urface isrepresented by the two scale pairs "north-south" and"east -west" .The simplest, although not the only, way to defineadjacency in the space is as adjacency on both scales:(Vx, y,sp )adj(x, y ,sp ) =--(3si,s2) scalel(si,sp) A scale2(s2,sp)A adj(x,y,sl) A adj(x,y, sz)A region is a subset of a space.
The surface and interiorof a region can be defined in terms of adjacency, in amanner paralleling the definition of a boundary in point-set topology.
In the following, s is the boundary orsurface of a two- or three-dimensional region r embed-ded in a space sp.
(V s,r, sp)surface(s,r, sp)(Vx)x ~ r ~ \[x ~ s =-(Ey)(y ~ sp A -1 (y E r) A adj(x,y,sp))\]Finally, we can define the notion of "contact" in termsof points in different regions being adjacent:(V rl,r2,sp)contact(r 1, r2,sP) -disjoint(r 1,r2) A (3 x,y)(x ~ r I A y ~ r 2 A adj(x,y,sp))By picking the scales and defining adjacency right, wecan talk about points of contact between communica-tion networks, systems of knowledge, and other meta-phorical domains.
By picking the scales to be the realline and defining adjacency in terms of eneighborhoods,we get Euclidean space and can talk about contactbetween physical objects.3.5 MATERIALPhysical objects and materials must be distinguished,just as they are in apparently every natural language, bymeans of the count noun-mass noun distinction.
Aphysical object is not a bit of material, but rather iscomposed of a bit of material at any given time.
Thus,rivers and human bodies are physical objects, eventhough their material constitution changes over time.This distinction also allows us to talk about an object'slosing material through wear and still remaining thesame object.We will say that an entity b is a bit of material bymeans of the expression material(b).
Bits of material arecharacterized by both extension and cohesion.
Theprimitive predication occupies(b,r, t)encodes extension,saying that a bit of material b occupies a region r at timet.
The topology of a bit of material is then parasitic onthe topology of the region it occupies.
A part b~ of a bitof material b is a bit of material whose occupied regionis always a subregion of the region occupied by b.Point-like particles (particle) are defined in terms ofpoints in the occupied region, disjoint bits (disjointbit)in terms of the disjointness of regions, and contactbetween bits in terms of contact between their regions.We can then state as follows the principle of non-joint-occupancy that two bits of material cannot occupy thesame place at the same time:(V b 1 , bz)(disjointbit(b I ,b2)D(V x,y,b3,b4) interior(b3,b 0 A interior(b4,b2)A particle(x, b3) A particle(y, b4)D --1 (3z)(at(x, z) A at(y, z))That is, if bits b 1 and b 2 are disjoint, then there is noentity z that is at interior points in both bl and b2.
Atsome future point in our work, this may emerge as aconsequence of a richer theory of cohesion and force.The cohesion of materials is also a primitive prop-erty, for we must distinguish between a bump on thesurface of an object and a chip merely lying on thesurface.
Cohesion depends on a primitive relation bondbetween particles of material, paralleling the role of adjin regions.
The relation attached is defined as thetransitive closure of bond.
A topology of cohesion isbuilt up in a manner analogous to the topology ofregions.
In addition, we have encoded the relation thatbond bears to motion, i.e., that bonded bits remainadjacent and that one moves when the other does, andthe relation of bond to force, i.e, that there is acharacteristic force that breaks a bond in a givenmaterial.246 Computational Linguistics Volume 13, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1987Jerry R. Hobbs et HI.
Commonsense Metaphysics and Lexical SemanticsDifferent materials react in different ways to forces ofvarious strengths.
Materials subjected to force exhibitor fail to exhibit several invariance properties, proposedby Hager (1985).
If the material is shape-invariant withrespect to a particular force, its shape remains the same.If it is topologically invariant, particles that are adjacentremain adjacent.
Shape invariance implies topologicalinvariance.
If subjected to forces of a certain strength ordegree dl, a material ceases being shape-invariant.
At aforce of strength dz >-- d~, it ceases being topologicallyinvariant, and at a force of strength d3 ~ d 2, it simplybreaks.
Metals exhibit he full range of possibilities, thatis, 0 < d~ < d2 < d3 < oo.
For forces of strength d < d~,the material is "hard";  for forces of strength d where d~< d < d2, it is "flexible"; for forces of strength d whered2 < d < d3, it is "malleable".
Words such as "ductile"and "elastic" can be defined in terms of this vocabu-lary, together with predicates about he geometry of thebit of material.
Words such as "brittle" (dl = d2 = d3)and "fluid" (d2 = 0, d3 = oo) can also be defined in theseterms.
While we should not expect o be able to definevarious material terms, like "metal" and "ceramic",we can certainly characterize many of their propertieswith this vocabulary.Because of its invariance properties, material inter-acts with containment and motion.
The word "clog"illustrates this.
The predicate clog is a three-placerelation: x clogs y against the flow of z.
It is theobstruction by x of z's motion through y, but with theselectional restriction that z must be something that canflow, such as a liquid, gas, or powder.
If a rope ispassing through ahole in a board, and a knot in the ropeprevents it from going through, we do not say that thehole is clogged.
On the other hand, there do not seem tobe any selectional constraints on x.
In particular, x canbe identical with z: glue, sand, or molasses can clog apassageway against its own flow.
We can speak ofclogging where the obstruction of flow is not complete,but it must be thought of as "nearly" complete.3.6 OTHER DOMAINS3.6.1 CAUSAL CONNECTIONAttachment within materials is one variety of causalconnection.
In general, if two entities x and y arecausally connected with respect o some behavior p ofx, then whenever p happens to x, there is some corre-sponding behavior q that happens to y.
In the case ofattachment, p and q are both move.
A particularlycommon kind of causal connection between two entitiesis one mediated by the motion of a third entity from oneto the other.
(This might be called a "vector boson"connection.)
Photons mediating the connection betweenthe sun and our eyes, raindrops connecting a state of theclouds with the wetness of our skin and clothes, a virusbeing transmitted from one person to another, andutterances passing between people are all examples ofsuch causal connections.
Barriers, openings, and pene-tration are all defined with respect o paths of causalconnection.3.6.2 FORCEThe concept of "force" is axiomatized, in a wayconsistent with Talmy's treatment (1985), in terms ofthe predications force(a,b,dO and resist(b,a,d2) ~ aforces against b with strength dl and b resists a's actionwith strength d2.
We can infer motion from facts aboutrelative strength.
This treatment can also be specializedto Newtonian force, where we have not merely move-ment, but acceleration.
In addition, in spaces in whichorientation is defined, forces can have an orientation,and a version of the "parallelogram of forces" law canbe encoded.
Finally, force interacts with shape in wayscharacterized by words like "stretch", "compress","bend",  "twist", and "shear".3.6.3 SYSTEMS AND FUNCTIONALITYAn important concept is the notion of a "system",which is a set of entities, a set of their properties, and aset of relations among them.
A common kind of systemis one in which the entities are events and conditionsand the relations are causal and enabling relations.
Amechanical device can be described as such a systemin a sense, in terms of the plan it executes in itsoperation.
The funct ion of various parts and of condi-tions of those parts is then the role they play in thissystem, or plan.The intransitive sense of "operate",  as inThe diesel was operating.involves systems and functionality.
If an entity x oper-ates, there must be a larger system sof  which x is a part.The entity x itself is a system with parts.
These partsundergo normative state changes, thereby causing x toundergo normative state changes, thereby causing x toproduce an effect with a normative function in the largersystem s. The concept of "normative" is discussedbelow.3.6.4 SHAPEWe have been approaching the problem of characteriz-ing shape from a number of different angles.
Theclassical treatment of shape is via the notion of "simi-larity" in Euclidean geometry, and in Hilbert's formalreconstruction of Euclidean geometry (Hilbert, 1902)the key primitive concept seems to be that of "con-gruent angles".
Therefore, we first sought o develop atheory of "orientation".
The shape of an object canthen be characterized in terms of changes in orientationof a tangent as one moves about on the surface of theobject, as is done in some vision research (e.g., Zahnand Roskies, 1972).
In all of this, since "shape" can beused loosely and metaphorically, one question we areasking is whether some minimal, abstract structure canbe found in which the notion of "shape" makes sense.Consider, for instance, a graph in which one scale isdiscrete, or even unordered.
Accordingly, we have beenexamining a number of examples, asking when it seemsright to say two structures have different shapes.We have also examined the interactions of shape andComputational Linguistics Volume 13, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1987 247Jerry R. Hobbs et ai?
Commonsense Metaphysics and Lexical Semanticsfunctionality (see Davis, 1984).
What seems to becrucial is how the shape of an obstacle constrains themotion of a substance or of an object of a particularshape (see Shoham, 1985).
Thus, a funnel concentratesthe flow of a liquid, and similarly, a wedge concentratesforce.
A box pushed against a ridge in the floor willtopple, and a rotating wheel is a limiting case of contin-uous toppling.3.7 HITTING, ABRASION, WEAR, AND RELATED CONCEPTSFor x to hit y is for x to move into contact with y withsome force.The basic scenario for an abrasive vent is that thereis an impinging bit of  material m that hits an object 0 andby doing so removes a pointlike bit of material bo fromthe surface of o:abr-event'(e,m,o,bo) : material(m )A (Vt) at(e,t) D topologically-invariant(o,t)(V e,m,o, bo)abr-event'(e,m,o,bo) =-(3 t,b,s,ez,e2,e3) at(e,t) A consists-of(o,b,t)A surface(s,b) A particle(bo,s ) A change'(e,el,e 2)A attached'(el,bo,b ) A not'(ez,e 0 A cause(es,e )A hit'(e3,m,bo)That is, e is an abrasive vent of a material m impingingon a topologically invariant object 0 and detaching bo ifand only if b 0 is a particle of the surface s of the bit ofmaterial material b of which 0 consists at the time t atwhich e occurs, and e is a change from the condition elof bo's being attached to b to the negation e 2 of thatcondition, where the change is caused by the hitting e 3of m against b o.After the abrasive event, the pointlike bit bo is nolonger a part of the object o:(Ve, m, o, b 0 , e t, e2, tz)abr- e vent'(e, m, o, b o)A change'(e,e Z,ez) A at(e2,t2)A consists-ojffo, b2,t2)D ~ part(bo,b2)That is, if e is an abrasive vent of m impinging against0 and detaching bo, and e is a change from e~ to e2, ande2 holds at time tz, then b 0 is not part of the bit ofmaterial b 2 of which 0 consists at t 2.
It is necessary tostate this explicitly since objects and bits of material canbe discontinuous.An abrasion is a large set of abrasive events widelydistributed through some nonpointlike region on thesurface of an object:(V e,m,o) abrade'(e,m,o) =--(3 bs)large(bs)A \[(Vet)\[e I E e D (:1 bo)b 0 E bs A abr-event'(et,m,o,bo) \]A (Vb,s,t)\[at(e,t) A consists-of(o,b,t) A surface(s,b)D (3r) subregion(r,s) A widely-distributed(bs,r)\]\]That is, e is an abrasion by m of o if and only if there isa large set bs of bits of material and e is a set of abrasiveevents in which m impinges on o and removes a bit bo,an element in bs, from o, and if e occurs at time t and oconsists of material b at time t, then there is a subregionr of the surface s of b over which bs is widely distrib-uted.Wear can result from a large collection of abrasiveevents distributed over time as well as space (so thatthere may be no instant at which enough abrasiveevents occur to count as an abrasion).
Thus, the linkbetween wear and abrasion is via the common notion ofabrasive vents, not via a definition of wear in terms ofabrasion.
(V e,m,o) wear'(e,m,o) --(3bs) large(bs)A \[(Vet)\[e t E eD (3 bo)b o ~ bs A abr-event'(e l,m,o,bo)\]A (3i)\[interval(i) A widely-distributed(e,i)\]\]That is, e is a wearing by x of o if and only if there is alarge set bs of bits of material and e is a set of abrasiveevents in which m impinges on o and removes a bit bo,an element in bs, from o, and e is widely distributedover some time interval i.We have not yet characterized the concept " large" ,but we anticipate that it would be similar to "h igh".
Theconcept "widely distributed" concerns systems.
I f  x isdistributed in y, then y is a system and x is a set ofentities which are located at components of y.
For thedistribution to be wide, most of the elements of apartition of y, determined independently of the distribu-tion, must contain components which have elements ofx at them.The word "wear"  is one of a large class of otherevents involving cumulative, gradual oss of material wevents described by words like "ch ip" ,  "cor rode" ,"f i le",  "e rode" ,  "sand" ,  "gr ind" ,  "weather" ,  " rus t " ," tarnish",  "eat  away" ,  " ro t " ,  and "decay" .
All ofthese lexical items can now be defined as variations onthe definition of "wear" ,  since we have built up theaxiomatizations underlying "wear" .
We are now in aposition to characterize the entire class.
We will illus-trate this by defining two different ypes of variants of"wear" - - "ch ip"  and "cor rode" .
"Ch ip"  differs from "wear"  in three ways: the bit ofmaterial removed in one abrasive vent is larger (it neednot be point-like), it need not happen because of amaterial hitting against he object, and "ch ip"  does notrequire (though it does permit) a large collection of suchevents: one can say that some object is chipped even ifthere is one chip in it.
Thus, we slightly alter thedefinition of abr-event o accommodate these changes:(V e,m,o ,bo)chip ' ( e ,m,o, bo) -~(3t, b,s, el,e2,e3)at(e,t ) A consists-of(o,b,t)248 Computational Linguistics Volume 13, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1987Jerry R. Hobbs et al Commonsense Metaphysics and Lexical Semantics/~ surface(s,b) /~ part(bo,s) /~ change'(e,el,ez)/~ attached'(el,bo,b) /~ not'(e2,e OThat is, e is a chipping event by a material m of a bit ofmaterial bo from an object o if and only if bo is a part ofthe surface s of the bit of material material b of which oconsists at the time t at which e occurs, and e is achange from the condition el of bo's being attached to bto the negation e2 of that condition.
"Corrode"  differs from "wear"  in that the bit ofmaterial is chemically transformed as well as beingdetached by the contact event; in fact, in some way thechemical transformation causes the detachment.
Thiscan be captured by adding a condition to the abrasiveevent that renders it a (single) corrode event:corrode-event(m, o, b o) : fluid(m)/~ contact(m,b o)(V e,m,o,b o) corrode-event'(e,m,o,bo) =--(3 t,b,s,el,e2,e 3) at(e,t) /~ consists-of(o,b,t)/~ surface(s,b) /~ particle(bo,s) /~ change'(e,ei,e 2)/~ attached'(el,bo,b) /~ not'(e2,e 0/~ cause(ea,e)/~ chemical-change'(e3,m,b o)That is, e is a corrosive event by a fluid m of a bit ofmaterial bo with which it is in contact if and only if b 0 isa particle of the surface s of the bit of material b ofwhich 0 consists at the time t at which e occurs, and eis a change from the condition e~ of bo's being attachedto b to the negation e 2 of that condition, where thechange is caused by a chemical reaction e3 of m with bo.
"Corrode"  itself may be defined in a parallel fashionto "wear" ,  by substituting corrode-event for abr-event.All of this suggests the generalization that abrasiveevents, chipping and corrode events all detach the bit inquestion, and that we may describe all of these asdetaching events.
We can then generalize the aboveaxiom about abrasive events that result in loss ofmaterial to the following axiom about detaching:(V e,m,o,bo,el,e2,t2) detach'(e,m,o,bo)/~ change'(e,el,e2) /~at(e2,t 2) /~ consists-of(o,t2,b )D --7 part(bo,b2)That is, if e is a detaching event by m of b 0 from o, ande is a change from e I to e 2, and e 2 holds at time t2, thenbo is not part of the bit of material b2 of which o consistsat t2.4 RELEVANCE AND THE NORMATIVEMany of the concepts we are investigating have drivenus inexorably to the problems of what is meant by"re levant"  and by "normative".
We do not pretend tohave solved these problems.
But for each of theseconcepts we do have the beginnings of an account hatcan play a role in analysis, if not yet in implementation.Our view of relevance, briefly stated, is that some-thing is relevant o some goal if it is a part of a plan toachieve that goal.
(A formal treatment of a similar viewis given in Davies, forthcoming.)
We can illustrate thiswith an example involving the word "sample" .
If a bitof material x is a sample of another bit of material y,then x is a part of y, and moreover, there are relevantproperties p and q such that it is believed that ifp is trueofx  then q is true ofy.
That is, looking at the propertiesof the sample tells us something important about theproperties of the whole.
Frequently, p and q are thesame property.
In our target texts, the following sen-tence occurs:We retained an oil sample for future inspection.The oil in the sample is a part of the total lube oil inthe lube oil system, and it is believed that a property ofthe sample, such as "contaminated with metal parti-cles", will be true of all the lube oil as well, and that thiswill provide information about possible wear on thebearings.
It is therefore relevant o the goal of maintain-ing the machinery in good working order.We have arrived at the following provisional accountof what it means to be "normat ive".
For an entity toexhibit a normative condition or behavior, it must firstof all be a component of a larger system.
This systemhas structure in the form of relations among its compo-nents.
A pattern is a property of the system, namely, theproperty of a subset of these stuctural relations holding.A norm is a pattern established either by conventionalstipulation or by statistical regularity.
An entity behavesin a normative fashion if it is a component of a systemand instantiates a norm within that system.
The word"operate" ,  discussed in Section 3.6.3, illustrates this.When we say that an engine is operating, we have inmind a larger system - -  i.e., the device the enginedrives - -  to which the engine may bear various possiblerelations.
A subset of these relations is stipulated to bethe norm - -  the way it is supposed to work.
We say it isoperating when it is instantiating this norm.5 CONCLUSIONThe research we have been engaged in has forced us toexplicate a complex set of commonsense concepts.Since we have done it in as general a fashion aspossible, we expect o be able, building on this founda-tion, to axiomatize a large number of other areas,including areas unrelated to mechanical devices.
Thevery fact that we have been able to characterize wordsas diverse as " range" ,  " immediately",  br i tt le",  "ope-rate",  and "wear"  shows the promising nature of thisapproach.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe research reported here was funded by the DefenseAdvanced Research Projects Agency under Office ofNaval Research contract N00014-85-C-0013.
It buildsComputational Linguistics Volume 13, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1987 249Jerry R. Hobbs et al Commonsense Metaphysics and Lexical Semanticson work supported by N IH  Grant LM03611 from theNat ional  L ibrary of Medicine, by Grant  IST-8209346from the Nat ional  Science Foundat ion,  and by a giftfrom the Systems Deve lopment  Foundat ion.REFERENCESAllen, James F., and Henry A. Kautz.
1985.
A Model of NaiveTemporal Reasoning.
In: Jerry R. Hobbs and Robert C.
Moore,Eds., Formal Theories of the Commonsense World, Ablex Pub-lishing Corp., Norwood, New Jersey: 251-268.Croft, William.
1986.
Categories and Relations in Syntax: The Clause-Level Organization of Information.
Ph.D. dissertation, Depart-ment of Linguistics, Stanford University, Stanford, California.Davies, Todd R. Forthcoming.
Determination Rules for Generaliza-tion and Analogical Inference.
In: David H. Helman, Ed., Ana-logical Reasoning.
D. Reidel, Dordrecht, Netherlands.Davis, Ernest.
1984.
Shape and Function of Solid Objects: SomeExamples.
Computer Science Technical Report 137, New YorkUniversity, New York, New York.Hager, Greg.
1985.
Naive Physics of Materials: A Recon Mission.
In:Commonsense Summer: Final Report, Report No.
CSLI-85-35,Center for the Study of Language and Information, StanfordUniversity, Stanford, California.Hayes, Patrick J.
1979.
Naive Physics Manifesto.
In: Donald Michie,Ed., Expert Systems in the Micro-electronic Age, EdinburghUniversity Press, Edinburgh, Scotland: 242-270.Herskovits, Annette.
1982.
Space and the Prepositions in English:Regularities and Irregularities in a Complex Domain.
Ph.D.dissertation, Department of Linguistics, Stanford University,Stanford, California.Hilbert, David.
1902.
The Foundations of Geometry.
The Open CourtPublishing Company.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1974.
A Model for Natural Language Semantics, PartI: The Model.
Research Report #36, Department of ComputerScience, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1985a.
Ontological Promiscuity.
Proceedings, 23rdAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,Chicago, Illinois, 61-69.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1985b.
Granularity.
Proceedings of the Ninth Inter-national Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Los Angeles,California, 432-435.Hobbs, Jerry R. and Robert C. Moore, Eds.
1985.
Formal Theories ofthe Commonsense World.
Ablex Publishing Corp., Norwood,New Jersey.Hobbs, Jerry R., Tom Blenko, Bill Croft, Greg Hager, Henry A.Kautz, Paul Kube, and Yoav Shoham.
1985.
Commonsense Sum-mer: Final Report, Report No.
CSLI-85-35, Center for the Studyof Language and Information, Stanford University, Stanford,California.Hobbs, Jerry R., and Paul A. Martin.
1987.
Local Pragmatics.Proceedings of the Tenth International Joint Conference on Arti-ficial Intelligence, Milano, Italy, 520-523.Katz, Jerrold J. and Jerry A. Fodor.
1963.
The Structure of aSemantic Theory.
Language, Vol.
39: 170--210.Lakoff, George.
1972.
Linguistics and Natural Logic.
In: DonaldDavidson and Gilbert Harman, Eds., Semantics of Natural Lan-guage: 545-665.McDermott, Drew.
1985.
Reasoning about Plans\] In: Jerry R. Hobbsand Robert C. Moore, Eds., Formal Theories of the CommonsenseWorld, Ablex Publishing Corp., Norwood, New Jersey: 269-318.Miller, George A. and Philip N. Johnson-Laird.
1976.
Language andPerception, Belknap Press.Rieger, Charles J.
1974.
Conceptual Memory: A Theory and Com-puter Program for Processing and Meaning Content of NaturalLanguage Utterances.
Stanford AIM-233, Department of Com-puter Science, Stanford University, Stanford, California.Schank, Roger.
1975.
Conceptual Information Processing.
ElsevierPublishing Company.Shoham, Yoav.
1985.
Naive Kinematics: Two Aspects of Shape.
In:Commonsense Summer: Final Report, Report No.
CSL1-85-35,Center for the Study of Language and Information, StanfordUniversity, Stanford, California.Stickel, Mark E. 1982.
A Nonclausal Connection-Graph ResolutionTheorem-Proving Program.
Proceedings of the AAA1-82 NationalConference on Artificial Intelligence, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania:229-233.Talmy, Leonard.
1983.
How Language Structures Space.
In: HerbertPick and Linda Acredolo, Eds., Spatial Orientation: Theory,Research, and Application, Plenum Press.Talmy, Leonard.
1985.
Force Dynamics in Language and Thought.
In:William H. Eilfort, Paul D. Kroeber, and Karen L. Peterson, Eds.,Proceedings from the Parasession on Causatives and Agentivity,21st Regional Meeting, Chicago Linguistic Society, Chicago,Illinois.Zahn, C. T., and R. Z. Roskies.
1972.
Fourier Descriptors for PlaneClosed Curves.
IEEE Transactions on Computers, Vol.
C-21, No.3: 269-281.250 / Computational Linguistics Volume 13, Numbers 3-4, July-December 1987
