S IMULTANEOUS-DISTR IBUT IVE  COORDINAT IONAND CONTEXT-FREENESSMichae l  B. KacDepar tment  o f  LinguisticsUniversity of  MinnesotaMinneapol is,  M innesota  55455Alexis Manaster -RamerDepartment of Computer ScienceWayne State UniversityDetroit, MI 48202Wil l iam C. RoundsDepartment of Electrical Engineering and Computer ScienceUniversity of MichiganAnn Arbor, MI 48109English is shown to be trans-context-free on the basis of coordinations of the respectively type that involvestrictly syntactic ross-serial agreement.
The agreement in question involves number in nouns and reflex-ive pronouns and is syntactic rather than semantic in nature because grammatical number in English, likegrammatical gender in languages uch as French, is partly arbitrary.
The formal proof, which makes crucialuse of the Interchange Lemma of Ogden et ai., is so constructed as to be valid even if English is presumedto contain grammatical sentences in which respectively operates across a pair of coordinate phrases one ofwhose members has fewer conjunets than the other; it thus goes through whatever the facts may beregarding constructions with unequal numbers of conjuncts in the scope of respectively, whereas other argu-ments have foundered on this problem.respective(ly).
Delight in these wordsis a widespread but depraved taste.Fowler (1937: 500)INTRODUCTIONPullum and Gazdar (1982) systematically review andcritique a large number of arguments for trans-context-freeness of natural anguages, t finding each one defectiveconceptually, empirically, or mathematically.
Amongthese are various ones (e.g., that of Bar-Hillel and Shamir(1960) 2 ) appealing to the existence in English ofsentences like(1) John and Bill dated Mary and Alice respectively.Pullum (1984) cites a number of more recent arguments,involving languages other than English, which do appearto establish their trans-context-freeness and remarks (p.117), in connection with a suggestion regarding Swedishgender agreement, that if this type of agreement can beshown to be a purely syntactic matter, then sentencesanalogous to English instances of the schema The N, N,.
.
.
and N are respectively A, A .. .
and A r, might providethe basis of an argument for trans-context-freeness ofthe language (or of any other with similar facts).
In thispaper, we shall produce a rigorous argument alongcomparable lines to show that English is trans-context-free (trans-CF), though we shall rely on facts regardinggrammatical number rather than gender.The relevance of a strictly negative result such as theone we have obtained is not restricted to the narrowquestion of where natural languages do (or don't) placein the Chomsky hierarchy.
Given that proving the trans-Copyright 1987 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided thatthe copies arc not made for direct commercial dvantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
To copyotherwise, or to republish, requires afee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/87/010025-30503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2, January-June 1987 25Michael B. Kac, Alexis Manaster-Ramer, William C. Rounds Simultaneous-Distributive Coordination and Context-Freenesscontext-freeness of particular natural languages hasturned out to be considerably more difficult than anyonehad expected it to be, and that solutions to difficult prob-lems are likely to bear fruit outside the parochial confinesof the original problem area and to call attention to hith-erto unnoticed facts, an exercise such as this goes wellbeyond lily gilding or dead horse beating.
To developour argument, for example, we shall turn the spotlight onthe linguistics phenomenon of arbitrary number, some-thing which is rarely mentioned in standard treatment ofgrammatical phenomena (in vivid contrast to arbitrarygender), but which turns out to be more than a merecuriosity.The mathematical approach that we employ is alsonoteworthy in making crucial use of the InterchangeLemma for CFLs (Ogden et al 1985) and of a "sepa-ration" technique that allows trans-context-freeness tobe demonstrated by showing that certain strings areincluded in a language while others are excluded.Neither of these has, to our knowledge, been used in anatural language context before.
The interest of theseparation method in particular lies in the way in which itsimplifies the following problem.
Since natural anguagesare large, complex, and (most important) lacking in ante-cedent definitions, the only practical way to argue abouttheir mathematical properties is to examine sublanguages.If one is not careful, however, one runs the risk ofcommitting the "trickle-up" fallacy, which consists inshowing that a certain set S has a property P and thenattributing P to some proper superset of S. The usualway of circumventing this difficulty is to capitalize onclosure properties of languages under intersection with aregular set; the separation technique provides an alterna-tive in cases where appeal to such closure properties isnot sufficient (or at least not obviously so).Partly in the interest of a terminology free of Englishbias, we call constructions like (1) simultaneous-distribu-tive (SD) coordinations.
This label reflects the fact that asentence such as (1) can be "unpacked" to yield, salvaveritate, a coordination of noncoordinate sentences bymeans of the following procedure:?
first, put a copy of the verb directly before each NP inthe second coordinate phrase that is not already imme-diately preceded by a verb, thus creating a coordinationof VPs;?
then "distribute" the NPs in the first coordinate phraseamong the VPs by simultaneously associating a copy ofeach of the former with exactly one of the latter, name-ly the one in the corresponding positions;?
finally, suppress the first coordinate phrase, the firstand and respectively.1 MATHEMATICAL TECHNIQUES FOR ESTABLISHINGTRANS-CONTEXT-FREENESSWe shall rely here on a number of established mathemat-ical results which, taken together, give us a way of estab-lishing trans-context-freeness for a language with certainsyntactic properties.Theoreml (Bar-Hillel et al 1961)The set of context-free languages is closed underhomomorphism.Theorem 2 (Interchange Lemma, Ogden et al1985)Let L be a CFL, and let L n be the set of length nstrings in L. Then there is a constant C L such thatfor any n, any nonempty subset Qn of L n, and anyinteger m such that n > m >_ 2, the following holds:Let k = r l lQnl l /(CLnZ)l ,  where rxl denotes xrounded up to the nearest integer, and II Qn II is thecardinality of Qn" Then there are k distinct stringsz 1, ..., z k in Qn such that z i can be written w i xy  ifo r l  < i<k ,  and:(i) \[wi\[ = Iwj\[  for alli, j<_k ;(ii) lYil = lYjl fo ra l l i ,  j _<k;(iii) m _> I xi\[ > m/2 ;(iv) \[xi\[ = Ix j l  for alli, j<_k ;and(v) w i x j  Yi e L for alli, j, <_ k.Since this result is likely to be unfamiliar to some readers,we shall provide some commentary that should provehelpful in following the remainder of the presentation.Less forbiddingly stated, the Interchange Lemma says(in part) that in a CFL it is possible, for any n, to find atleast two strings of length n with internal parts of thesame length that can be exchanged for each other toproduce strings that are also in L, providing that thereare at least two distinct strings of length n. This makes itpossible to prove the trans-context-freeness of a certainkind of language (what kind will be stated in a moment)by showing that once n become sufficiently large, thepossibility of interchange no longer exists.
For this strat-egy to work, it is required that the cardinality of L n growvery rapidly as a function of n, which we can illustratewith the case of the copying language over the vocabu-lary {a, b} (call this language CP): For every n < 2,II cPn II -- 2n2, thus growing exponentially, while Ccpn 2grows only polynomially; the necessary conditions foruse of the Interchange Lemma to prove trans-context-freeness are thus satisfied by this case.Making use of the Interchange Lemma, we haveproved the following further result:Theorem 3.LetH = {xy I x E {a, b}*, y E {c, d}*, y = h(x),where h(a) = c, h(b) = d} and G = {xy I x E{a ,b}* ,y  c {c, d}*, Ixl # ly l} Then any set I i strans-CF if I is a superset of H and a subset of G LIH.The proof is presented as an appendix to the paper.
Asan immediate corrollary, we obtain the following result:26 Computational Linguistics, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2, January-June 1987Michael B. Kac, Alexis Manaster-Ramer, William C. Rounds Simultaneous-Distributive Coordination and Conlext-FreenessTheorem 4.Let G, H, and I be as defined in Theorem 3, and letJ = {xy I x ?
{a, b}*,y ?
{c, d}*, Ix l  = ly l}and K = J - H. Then any set L containing H anddisjoint from K is trans-CF.Proof: Intersect L with the regular set H = {xy I x?
{a, b}*,y ?
{c,d}*3 and le tN  = L t3M.
H isasubset of N, K is disjoint from N, and the onlyother strings that might be in N are those in G.Therefore, N contains H and some subset (possiblyempty) of G, and is trans-CF by Theorem 3.
Sincethe intersection of any CFL with any regular set isCF, L is trans-CF.nTheorem 4 says that an arbitrary language L istrans-CF if it meets the following conditions:?
It includes H.?
It excludes every string not in H that is nonethelessdivisible into two equal parts, the first over {a, b}and the second_over {c, d}.
(This is the set K.)In order to apply these results, we sill actuallyneed to consider not quite the sets G through N asdefined above but the corresponding sets G r throughN r, where the latter differ from the former in includ-ing only strings whose x and y parts are of at leastlength 2.
The subtraction of a finite subset obviouslychanges nothing essential, and Theorems 3 and 4 willhold, mutatis mutandis, of sets G t through N r.Hence:Theorem 5.Let H p and K r be as defined above.
Then any setL' containing H ~ and disjoint from K p is trans-CF.Our strategy in applying these results to English will beto show that there is a subset F of English that can behomomorphically mapped to some L p, and that F is theintersection of English with a regular language.
Thissuffices to show that English itself is trans-CF.2 GRAMMATICAL NUMBER AGREEMENT IN ENGLISHOur empirical argument rests on the claim that numberagreement between reflexive pronouns and their antece-dents is a syntactic phenomenon i  English.
For exam-ple, the string(2) *The girl likes themselves.must be considered ungrammatical rather than merelysemantically ill-formed by virtue of the impossibility(because of number incompatibility) of supplying anintraelausal antecedent for the reflexive pronoun.
Thereason that this is so has to do with a fact about gram-matical number in English that has not been generallyrecognized; namely, that it is, like grammatical gender inlanguages uch as French and German, partly arbitrary.This can be shown by a number of different kinds ofexamples, among them the following.
First, there aresynonym pairs in English, each consisting of a grammat-?Computational Linguistics, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2,ically singular member and a grammatically plural one.
Apartial ist is given in the table below)SINGULAR PLURALapparel clothesforest woodsunderwear underpantscar wheelskibble crunchieslocation whereaboutsmerchandise goodsPamir Pamirs*Hellespont Dardanellescorpse remainspant** pantshosiery stockingsmilitary armed forcesissue offspring* a mountain range in Central Asia** as used in the garment radeFurther, these examples can be elaborated in variousways.
For example, names of some mountain ranges arestrictly singular (Caucasus, Hindu Kush), while those ofothers are strictly plural (Alps, Rockies); items from simi-lar semantic fields may vary as to their grammaticalnumber properties (compare odds-probability, wheat-oats,yoghurt-curds, pasta-noodles, mush-grits (in somedialects), Granola-Rice Krispies).
Note further that thereis dialect variation regarding the grammatical number ofcertain collective nouns (such as government andcompany), which are strictly singular in AmericanEnglish, but which can be used as plurals in BritishEnglish.A further phenomenon on which we shall capitalize isthe existence in English of an idiomatic way of express-ing the ease with which an activity can be performedinvolving the use of reflexive constructions, as illustratedby, for example, This land will rent itself, or These woodswill sell themselves.
With this in mind, compare now(3) This land and these woods can be expected to rentitself and sell themselves respectively.
(4) *This land and these woods can be expected to rentthemselves and sell itself respectively.It is clear that strings like (3), in which each reflexivepronoun agrees with the corresponding noun, are gram-matical, while those in (4), in which each pronoun disa-grees with the corresponding noun, are not.
This factwill be the basis of our demonstration that English istrans-CF.3 ARGUMENT REGAINEDLet A = {{this land, those woods} and {this land, thesewoods} + can be expected to {{rent, sell} {itself,themselves}} + and {{rent, sell} {itself, themselves}}respectively}, and note that A is regular.
Now let B be thesubset of A that satisfies the following condition:January-June 1987 27Michael B. Kac, Alexis Manaster-Ramer, William C. Rounds Simultaneous-Distributive Coordination and Context-FreenessIn case the number of occurrences of members of{this land, these woods} is equal to the number ofoccurrences of members of {itself, themselves}, thenfor all i _> l, if the ith noun in the string is land,then the ith pronoun is itself and if the ith noun iswoods, then the ith pronoun is themselves (i.e.,number agreement obtains between the nouns andthe reflexive pronouns).Now let C = A - B.
Every string in C contains exactlyas many pronouns as it does nouns, but for some i > 1,the ith pronoun fails to agree in number with the ithnoun.
Finally, let D be the subset of B consisting of justthose strings that contain exactly as many nouns aspronouns.It is clear that D is part of English, and that C isdisjoint from English, inasmuch as D exhibits therequired number agreement and C does not.
If D werethe intersection of English with the regular set A, thenthe result that English is trans-CF would followimmediately.
4 However, things are not that simple, and itis conceivable that the intersection of English with A issome proper superset F of D that is a subset of B (possi-bly B itself).
The point of uncertainty here is the statusof strings of A with unequal numbers of occurrences of/ nouns and pronouns, such as the following:(5) This land, these woods, and this land can beexpected to rent itself and sell themselves respec-tively.
(6) This land and these woods can be expected to rentitself, sell themselves, and rent itself respectively.While it might seem that such strings are ungrammatical,this assumption is called into question by Pullum andGazdar's (1982) observation that there is no syntacticconstraint in English governing the number of conjunctsin SD-coordinations.
Thus, contrary to conventionalwisdom, there are perfectly well-formed SD-co-ordina-tions with mismatched numbers of conjuncts; for exam-ple, The last two people in this picture live in Columbusand Chicago respectively.
This undermines a number ofolder arguments that English is trans-CF that cruciallyassume that grammatical SD-coordinations must haveequal numbers of conjuncts.
In light of this, it may bethat strings like (5-6) are to be considered syntacticallywell-formed, albeit lacking sensible interpretations, andso an argument presupposing the contrary cannot be usedto show that English is trans-CF.We now show that Theorems 3, 4, and 5 allow us toget around this obstacle by, in effect, ignoring the stringswith mismatched numbers of conjuncts in constructingour argument.
If strings like (5-6) are grammatical, thenthe intersection of English with the regular language A isnot the trans-CF language D but some proper superset Fthereof.
Theorem 5 tells us in effect that, no matter whatits exact identity, if there is a sublanguage of Englishhomomorphic to H r but none homomorphic to K p, thenEnglish is trans-CF.
This "separation" strategy ields theconclusion that so long as English contains D andexcludes C, it is trans-CF.Recall now that, according to our definition, Bincludes strings like (5-6), along with sentences like (3)but, crucially, excludes (4) and all strings like it.
To beprecise, B includes all strings of A which, like (3) haveexactly as many nouns as pronouns and cross-serialnumber agreement, but also all strings in A that, like (5)and (6), have more pronouns than nouns or vice versa.In virtue of Theorem 5, we will be able to show thatEnglish is trans-CF no matter what position we take onthe grammaticality of strings like (5-6), so long as thereare no English sentences in the subset C of A consistingof strings in which there are as many nouns as pronounsbut at least one of the pronouns fails to agree with thecorresponding noun in the first part o f  the string.
Thus,the intersection of English with A is some subset F of Bthat is disjoint from C; it is of no consequence whether Fis equal to all of B, or only to D, or to some propersubset of B that is a proper superset of D.We now define the homomorphism h such thath (this land) = ah (these woods) = bh (itself) = ch (themse-lves) = dFor all z ?
{can be expected to, sell, rent, and,respectively}, h(z) ~This homomorphism aps F to L t. Since the CFLs areclosed under homomorphism, and L r is trans-CF, F istrans-CF.
And since the CFLs are also closed underintersection with regular sets, and the intersection ofEnglish with the regular set A has turned out to betrans-CF, it follows that English is also trans-CF.It should be immediately apparent that a similar strate-gy can be applied in instances uch as the one mentionedin Section 1, where grammatical gender agreement isinvolved, providing that the language in question hasinstances of arbitrary gender.
So, for example, we canconstruct for French a sublanguage parallel to D consist-ing of sentences like(7) Cette nation et ce pays sont respectivement unealli6e et un associ6 des Etats-Unis.
'This nation and this country are respectively anally and a partner of the United States.
'In this example, we capitalize on the fact that the inani-mate nouns nation 'nation' and pays 'country' belong todifferent gender classes, reflected in the predicate nomi-nals une alli~e 'an ally' and un associd 'a partner'.
5 Inver-sion of the predicate nominals yields an ungrammaticalstring, but corresponding inversion of the subjectsrestores grammaticality:(8) *Cette nation et ce pays sont respectivement unassoci6 et un alli6e des Etats-Unis.
(9) Ce pays et cette nation sont respectivement unassoei6 et une alli6e des Etats-Unis.28 Computational Linguistics, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2, January-June 1987Michael B. Kac, Alexis Manasler-Ramer, William C. Rounds Simultaneous-Distributive Coordination and Conlexl-FreenessComparable examples can be constructed in otherlanguages, a case in point being the Polish sentence(10) Francja i Kongo s~ przeciwniczka wzgl~dnie zwol-ennikiem traktatu.which translates l iterally as 'France and (the) Congo areopponent respectively supporter (of the) treaty';  here, asin the French example, the two nouns in the subjectphrase are of different grammatical genders, and arematched with corresponding ender-compatible nouns inthe predicate phrase.
Example (11) is ungrammatical(notice the suffixes of the predicate nouns) while (12) isgrammatical gain.
(1 1) *Francja i Kongo s~ zwolennikiem wzgl~dnieprzeciwniczk~ traktatu.
(12) Kongo i Francja s~ zwolennikiem wzgl~dnie przec-iwniczk~ traktatu.4 CONCLUSIONWe would like to close by pointing out the importanceand interest of , the following question: Given that it islogically possible for a language to have an operator  justlike English respect ive ly  except that the conjuncts to bel inked with each other are paired in center-embeddingrather than cross-serial fashion, and given that the prop-erties of such an operator  can be characterized by formalapparatus apparent ly more elementary than what isrequired to characterize respectively,  why do operators ofthis seemingly more elementary type appear not to existin any natural anguage?
The use of apparent ly  is impor-tant here: from the standpoint of the Chomsky hierarchy,nesting is less complex than mutual intercalation, in thesense that the type of grammar required to handle theformer is more restricted than the type required to handlethe latter, but the possibil ity is always open that this typeof complexity is not germane to human psychologicalcapacity.
We strongly suspect that this is the case (seeManaster -Ramer and Kac 1985), though that is a topicfor another time.APPENDIX: PROOF OF THEOREM 3Assume that I c G U H is context-free and apply theInterchange Lemma toQ2n = {xh(x)  \] x E {a, b} n}Since H _c I, Qzn _c Izn, the set of length 2n substrings inI.
Choose n suitably large (for the exact choice, see theproof of Claim 1 below), and let m = n. Let k =r l lQzn l \ [ / (C l (2n)2) ' l  be the number defined in thelemma.
We get k distinct z i in Q2n satisfying the conclu-sion of the lemma.
Our result will follow from the nexttwo c la ims:Claim 1.
Let x i, .
.
.
,  x k be the middle parts of z i, .
.
.
,z k respectively.
Then there are i and j such that x ix j ,  provided that n is suitably chosen.Claim 2.
If x i ?
Xj, then wixjy i is not in G O H and,afort ior i ,  not in I.Proof of Claim 1.
Suppose that all the x i were equal.
By(iii) of the Interchange Lemma, I x i l  > n /2 .
Therefore,at least n/4  characters from the x i are in the {a, b} halfor in the {c, d} half of z i.
We may assume the formerpossibil ity since the argument works exactly the sameway in the latter case.
Each z i is determined by the ncharacters of its {a, b} half and, by supposit ion, at leastn/4  of these characters are fixed.
So there can be at most2 n-n~4 = 2 3n/4 strings z t .
.
.
.
.
z k. But JJ Q2n IJ = 2 n, and if nis chosen so that 23n/4 < 2n/ (C l  n2) = Jl Qzn J J / (e l  n2), wecontradict the Interchange Lemma, which says that allthe z's are distinct.
Note that n can always be chosen thisway, no matter what C I is, by elementary inequalitiesfrom college algebra and calculus.Proof  of  Claim 2.
Observe first that interchanging x i withx j  does not produce a string in G. The substrings x i andx j  disagree in some position, which is also a posit ion inone half or the other of the strings z i and zj.
Thus thematching posit ion in z i and zj  (in the other half of theword) does not occur in x i or  xj because \] Xi\] -~ \ ]X j l  _<n, by (iii) of the Interchange Lemma, so interchanging x iand x j  produces a string not in H.Since Claim 1 and Claim 2 violate clause (v) of the Inter-change Lemma, I cannot be context-free.
I IREFERENCESBar-Hillel, Y. and Shamir, E. 1960 Finite-State Languages: FormalRepresentations and Adequacy Problems, In Bar-Hillel, Y., Ed.,Language and Information.
Addison Wesley, Reading, Massachu-setts: 87-98.Bar-Hillel, Y4 Perles, M.; and Shamir, E. 1961 On Formal Propertiesof Simple Phrase Structure Grammars.
Z. Phonetik.
Sprachwiss.Kommunikationsforsch.
14:143-172.Chomsky, N. 1963 Formal Properties of Grammars.
In Luce, R.D.
:Bush, R.R.
; and Galanter, E., Eds., Handbook of  MathematicalPsychology.
Volume 11.
John Wiley and Sons, New York, New York:323-418.Fowler, W. 1937 A Dictionary of  Modern English Usage.
ClarendonPress, Oxford.Levelt, WJ.M.
1974 Formal Grammars in Linguistics and Psycholin-guislics.
Volume II.
Mouton, The Hague.Manaster-Ramer, A. and Kac, M.B.
1985 Formal Models and Linguis-tic Universals.
Paper read at the Symposium on Language Typologyand Universals, University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee.Ogden, W.; Ross, R.J.; and Winklmann, K. 1985 An "'InterchangeLemma" for Context-Free Languages.
SIAM Journal o f  Computing14: 410-415.Postal, P. 1964 Limitations of Phrase Structure Grammars.
In Fodor,J.A.
and Katz, J.J,, Eds., The Structure of  Language.
Prentice-Hall,Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: 137-154.Pullum, G.K. 1984 Syntactic and Semantic Parsability.
Proceedings ofthe IOth International Conference on Computational Linguistics: 112-122.Pullum, G.K. and Gazdar, G. 1982 Context-Free Languages andNatural Languages.
Linguistics and Philosophy 4:471-504.NOTES1.
We use the term trans-contexl-free in preference to non-context-free, to distinguish the class of languages outside the weak genera-tive capacity of type 2 grammars.Computational Linguistics, Volume |3 ,  Numbers 1-2, January-June 1987 29Michael B. Kac, Alexis Manaster-Ramer, William C. Rounds Simultaneous-Distributive Coordination and Context-Freeness2.
This argument is reiterated in Postal (1964); however the relevanceof SD-coordination to the question of eontext-freeness was evident-ly first noticed in 1959 by Ray Solomonoff in personal communi-cation to Chomsky (see Chomsky 1963).3.
Some of these examples were suggested to us by Rosemarie Whit-ney.4.
See, for example, the argument, due to H. Brandt Corstius, cited inLevelt (1974: 31-32).5.
These nouns were selected because they have counterparts of theopposite gender: thus, corresponding to allide we have alli~, andcorresponding to associd we have assoCi~e.
The masculine and femi-nine forms of 'partner' and 'ally' are phonologically indistinguish-able in isolation, but can be distinguished in the context ofpreceding indefinite articles, as our examples show.30 Computational Linguistics, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2, January-June 1987
