Technical Correspondence A Note on a Study of Casesis the constant of the pumping lemma, the pumpedsubstring cannot be longer than k, and therefore the onlyother place we might be able to pump would be in themiddle as and the middle cs, But this would result inviolating the condition that l may not be greater than i.Thus, z cannot be pumped without violating the pumpinglemma, and hence (7) is not context free.
Sincecontext-free languages are closed under intersection withregular sets, it follows that (6) is not context-free ither.Since context-free languages are also closed under substi-tution, this means that (5) is also not context-free.
Final-ly, since (5) is the intersection of English, with theregular set (4), it follows that Englishj is not context-free.
Q.E.D.Alex is  Manaster -RamerComputer  Science DepartmentWayne State UniversityDetroit, MI 48202REFERENCESKac, M.B.
; Manaster-Ramer, A; and Rounds, W.C. 1987 Simultane-ous-Distributive Coordination and Context-Freeness.
Computa-tional Linguistics 13( I-2): 25-30.Langendoen, D.T.
1977 On the Inadequacy of Type-3 and Type-2Grammars for Human Languages.
In Hopper, P.J., Ed., Studies inDescriptive and Historical Linguistics: Festschrift for Win fred P.Lehman.
John Benjamins, Amsterdam: 159-172.Manaster-Ramcr, A.
1983 The Soft Formal Underbelly of TheoreticalSyntax.
CLS 19: 256-262.Manaster-Ramer, A.
In press.
Dutch as a Formal Language.
Linguis-tics and Philosophy 10.Pullunl, G. and Gazdar, G. 1982 Context-Free Languages and NaturalLanguages.
Linguistics and Philosophy 4:471-504.NOTES1.
Pullum and Gazdar (1982) state that they "'can tolerate" exampleslike (2), and Langcndoen (personal communication) agrees.2.
In other terms, we must be able to tell which verb would agree withwhich subject given the chance, and disallow just those combina-tions where the result would be a marked singular verb.3.
Ignoring, for the sake of simplicity, the arguments advanced inManaster-Ramer (1983; in press) about the need to state formalresults about natural language inother than weak generative capaci-ty terms.4.
Ignoring, for the sake of readability, the punctuation that wouldnormally be required in written English and the suprasegmentalfeatures that would occur in the spoken language.5.
In the discussions of formal properties of natural languages, ubsti-tutions have not figured at all prominently, whereas homomor-phisms, which are just a special case of substitutions, have.
it maybe helpful, therefore, to point out that a substitution is a mappinglike a homomorphism except hat it is usually denoted by o ratherthan h and that it may associate each element in the vocabulary of alanguage with a whole set (possibly infinite) of strings rather thanwith just one string, as in the case of a homomorphism.
In the pres-ent case, we needed to employ a (slightly more general kind of)substitution i order to be able to associate the women with sing aswell as danced.
It should also be noted that, while the man and thewomen are linguistically analyzable, we have for technical conven-ience treated them as single elements of the terminal vocabulary indcl'ining Ihc substitutions.6.
)~ denotes the empty string.A NOTE ON A STUDY OF CASESThis note describes and illustrates a study of deepcases using a large sample of sentences.
The purposeof the note is to draw attention to the value of thesource material used for those interested in case-based representations of sentence meaning, and toindicate the potential utility of the study results.The purpose of this note is to draw attention to the utilityof a specific source of data relevant to the use of case-based meaning representations in language processing, byillustrating the way we have exploited this source.Like many others, we have used a language analyserthat builds meaning representations expressing semanticcase roles; specifically, Boguraev's (1979) analyser buildsdependency trees with word senses defined by semanticcategory primitive formulae, and with case labels, i.e.,semantic relation primitives, on the constituents of verb(and some other) structures.Using the analyser for more varied and demandingpurposes than Boguraev's original tests (see, e.g., Bogu-raev and Sparck Jones 1983) left us dissatisfied with theoriginal set of case relations.
We therefore carried out adetailed analysis of a large sample of English sentencesto evaluate our proposals for a better-founded and morecomprehensive s t of case relations.
This study exploitedF.T.
Wood's  "Engl ish prepositional idioms" (Wood1967), which provides a careful account, supported byextensive examples, of the uses of English prepositionsand preposition-l ike t rms.
For instance,WITHIN(1) InsideWithin the house all was quiet.The Kingdom of God is within you.
(2) Amongst the members of a group.Opinion within the profession is divided.
(3) Inside specified bounds or limits.They were ordered to remain within the precincts ofthe college.The scholarship is open to anyone residing within fiftymiles of the university.He always strove to live within his income.Our study was intended to establish both the justifica-tion for each case relation individually, by reference to arange of sentences, and the plausibility of the set ofrelations as a whole, by reference to the complete set ofsentences.
Looking at Wood's  description of a preposi-tion's sense, and its accompanying illustration(s), wetried to assign a case label to the link between thesentence lements made by the preposition which we feltcaptured the essential nature of that link, at the level ofgenerality represented by a set of 20-30 cases.
Thus" locat ion"  would be the label associated with a numberof specific space-relation prepositions, e.g., above, at, by.The study was primarily concerned with prepositionally-Computational Linguistics, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2, January-June 1987 65Technical Correspondence A Note on a Study of Casesbased cases, but we considered other case instantiations,though not systematically.
While additional cases mighttherefore be motivated by non-prepositional sources wehave not examined, we believe that a complete set wouldhave to include something like our list, to cover prep-ositions adequately.The study was a purely investigative one; we wereinterested in the legitimacy of the cases as characterisa-tions of sentence relations, and did not address the ques-tion of how the specific assignments, for the individualsentences, could be achieved automatically.
However, aswe had already demonstrated that a quite refined set ofcases could be applied by Boguraev's existing analyser,and hive since, as practical need has arisen, implementedfurther cases, we feel some confidence in the feasibilityof automatic assignment of the cases in the present set.
(This of course accepts that some individual sentencesmay present considerable difficulties.)
We are neverthe-less not offering our results here with any great claimsabout the especial novelty or merits of our case set, butrather as a practical contribution to the utilisation of caselabels, justified by the large and varied sentence samplestudied.
Though domain-specific strategies may reducethe need to handle lexical ambiguity, especially in nounsand verbs but even in prepositions, it may neverthelessbe necessary even in the domain-specific case to providefor distinct semantic functions in prepositions.Wood's complete set of sentences is substantial; wetook one sentence for each straightforward sense definedby Wood's numbering, omitting items labelled "phrases"and with occasional modifications, e.g., to shortensentences.
This gave us 421 sentences altogether, for 86prepositions.
As a result of our analysis we emerged with28 cases.
These are listed below with notes on the typesof source from which they may be derived, and (our)examples howing both prepositional and non-preposi-tional uses.
This list is followed by illustrations from theWood sample.In the list each case, or tag, name is prefaced by its?
abbreviation.
The meaning of the case is not explicitlydefined, but is assumed to be ostended by the subsequentexamples (and more particularly by the fuller samplederived from Wood).
Possible sources for the casesinclude the lexicon and syntactic structures like embed-ded clauses identified by the parsing program (and in ouranalyser elements of structure identified by semanticpattern matching).
The normal inkage marked by a caseis between verb and noun group, but two nominal groupsmay also be case-linked, and also more than two items(though this is not common).
In the illustrations we haveadopted the convention of marking the head words of thetwo linked constituents by -.
Thus the tag "after" labelsthe relation between left and breakfast in John leftfollowing breakfast, written as "John -left following-breakfast".
In the cases where complete constituentslike embedded clauses fill case roles, they are bracketedwith \[ \], and the whole item is marked with -.
The casesare alphabetically ordered here on their abbreviations.
(ace) ACCOMPANIMENTdictionary: e.g., "with"; can link nominalsJohn -went to the zoo (along) with -Mary.John -went everywhere with his -violin.
(act) ACTIVITYdictionary: e.g., "at"John -beat Mary at -chess.Aloysius-beat Sebastian-running.
(adest) ABSTRACT-DESTINATIONdictionary: e.g., "to"I -reached my --conclusion.When heated, water -turns into -steam.
(aft) AFTERdictionary: e.g., "after", program: ing-phrases, adverbi-als; can link nominalsJohn -left after -Bill.John, -\[having bought he book\], - took it home.
(ag) AGENTprogram: contents of "subj" registerJohn was -hit by -Bill.-Malaria -killed the girl.
(aloc) ABSTRACT-LOCATIONdictionary: e.g., "in"Parry was -fixed in his -mind that the Mafia was out toget him sometime.?
The four friends -shared the work between -them.
(asour) ABSTRACT-SOURCEdictionary: e.g., "from"I -got  them from -Bill.She -makes dresses of -silk.
(attr) ATTRIBUTEdictionary: e.g., "with"; can link nominalsThe -girl in -blue was happy.The -girl with the pink -hat was sad.
(bef) BEFOREdictionary: e.g., "before", program: adverbials; can linknominalsJohn -left before -noon.The stock market -was very active ahead of the-Budget.
(comp) COMPARISONdictionary: e.g., "as", program ?
; can link nominalsJohn -passed as -Bill.He was given -cash instead of -kind.Time -flies like an -arrow.
(dest) DESTINATIONdictionary: e.g., "to"John -went to -Paris.Bill -walked up to -John.66 Computational Linguistics, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2,  January-June 1987Technical Correspondence A Note on a Study of Cases(dire) DIRECTIONdictionary: e.g., "down"John -walked after-Bill.John -ran down the -hill.
(force) FORCEdictionary: e.g., "of"The girl --died of -malaria.The girl -.died from an -accident.
(goal) GOALdictionary: e.g., "for", program: to-complementsHe -walked for -pleasure.John -went to town in order - \[to buy a shirt\].
(inst) INSTRUMENTdictionary: e.g., "by", program: complementsThe boy -caught he fish with a -minnow.John -went to Paris by -plane.
(loc) LOCATIONdictionary: e.g., "at"The -girl at -Smith's was not helpful about buying abook.Sebastian -felt pain in his -foot.
(man) MANNERdictionary: e.g., "with", program: embedded clauses,adverbsThey -ran with -speed.He -did it by -\[working very hard\].
(mobj) MENTAL-OBJECTdictionary: e.g., "about", program: embedded clauses,to-complements, hat-complementsJohn -planned -\[to go to London\].John -threw light on the -problem.They -talked about -politics.
(obj) OBJECT(almost a default), program: typically contents of "obj"registerJohn -bought -books.John -threw -light on the problem.
(poss) POSSESSED-BYprogram: noun phrases; only links nominalsThe -daughter of the -Mayor was blonde.The -pocket of my uncle's -coat was empty.
(quant) QUANTITYprogram: noun phrases; can link nominalsThere were four -students including a -dwarf.It was too -long by twelve -inches.
(reas) REASONdictionary: e.g., "of", "because of", program: embed-ded clausesJohn is -afraid of -\[being apprehended by the police\].John is -happy about -school.
(rec) RECIPIENTdictionary: e.g., "to", program: contents of "obj" regis-terSusan -gave the flowers to -Jill.John -shot -Mary.
(sour) SOURCEdictionary: e.g., "from"She -took some money out of her -bag.I -got them from -Paris.
(state) STATEdictionary: e.g., "of", program: predicate adjectivesHis conduct -is -admirable.He wears -green -trousers.
(subj) SUBJECT(almost a default), program: various places-Books -are nice.John is -fascinated by -books, especially onespublished by private presses.
(tloc) TIME-LOCATIONdictionary: e.g., "at"They-ate  breakfast at -noon.I -wrote  my thesis during -1979.
(tspan) TIME-SPANdictionary: e.g., "throughout", program: embeddedclauses, ing-phrasesI -was a bus conductor for two ---days.John -sang -\[running in the park\].Our treatment of the sample of sentences taken fromWood is illustrated by the two selections below.
Theseshow first the complete analyses for two prepositions,and then the complete set of sentences for two cases.The average number of sentences per case in the sampleis 15, with low variation.
However, "location" has 80sentences, reflecting the very large number of differentspace-relation prepositions there are.
It is possible thatmore specific space-location cases would be desirable,though the right level of discrimination and particular setwould not be easy to establish.
We are, in any case, notsuggestiffg that the use of a case tag in the representationof a sentence delivered by the analyser makes it unneces-sary to indicate the specific lexical sense of the preposi-tion.AT/ loc // t loc // l oc //dest //ac t //ac t //man//mah// fo rce //man/Mr Brown -is at the --office.The concert -starts at half past -seven.At the second -roundabout, -turn left.We have -arrived at our ---destination.The two tribes -were constantly at -war.She loved to watch the -children at -play.He -left at a moment's -notice.He -vaulted over the gate at a single -leap.I have ---called to see you at the -request of afriend.Cars are -parked at their owners' -risk.Computational Linguistics, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2, January-June 1987 67Technical Correspondence A Note on a Study of Cases/man// force//dest //ac t /BY/ag // inst //ob j //man//man// loc // loc //be f // tspan//quant // reas// inst//loc// inst//at t r //quant //.9//quant //quant// inst// force// inst // inst// inst // inst// inst // inst // inst// inst// inst // inst// inst// inst // inst /The car -whizzed along at sixty -miles an hour.She felt sure she would -faint at the -sight ofblood.As we passed the gate the dog -flew out at -us.That boy -is clever at -mathematics.The new library was --opened by the -Mayor.I shall -go by the 10:30 -train.He -seized me by the -arm.He -succeeded by hard -work.I -know him by -sight.She -sat by the -pillar.We -went by the -shop without realising it.They should have -been here by -now.They decided to -travel by -night.We -lost the match by one -goal.She -was very generous by -nature.They always -addressed each other by theirChristian -names.I -went from London to Manchester by-Sheffield.He -swore by all the -Gods he would conquer.He brought a -person by the -name of Smoth.The carpet is three -yards by -four.The box is too heavy for me to lift by myself.-Little by -little his savings accumulated.Milk is -sold by the -pint.By my -watch, it' -s time for lunch.The meeting will be -held in the school, by-permission of the headmaster.By my -watch it' -s  time for lunch.He -looked at it through is -binoculars.He -swore by all the -Gods he would conquer.I managed to -beat the dog off with a -stick.I shall -go by the 10:30 -train.Many locomotives nowadays -run on -oil.Marian Evans -wrote under the -name GeorgeEliot.The parcel was -wrapped in -paper.The poem has been -set to -music.The prosecution was -brought under the-Vagrancy Act.The repairs -cost me over five -pounds.The roof of the building is -supported on-pillars.They always -addressed each other by theirChristian -names./ inst /  You can -use that saucer for an -ashtray./man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man//man/Cars are -parked at their owners' -risk.He -is, without --doubt, a very able person.He -left at a moment's -notice.He -said nothing in -reply to my questions.He -succeeded by hard -work.He -vaulted over the gate at a single -leap.I ---.did it without -thinking.I -know him by -sight.I only -said it in -fun.It -is all right in -theory.She -did the work to the -best of her ability.She - lay back with her ---eyes closed.The car -whizzed along at sixty -miles an hour.The child -screamed in -terror.The last few years of his life were -spent in-poverty.The water -shot up in a -fountain.The work has been ---carded out according toyour -instructions.They -played out of -tune.They let him -have it on -loan.To our -surprise, the train -was early.Our complete sample is available in listings, with a fullerdescription.
We acknowledge the immense value ofWood's work as a gource, and are grateful to the publish-er Macmillan for permission to reproduce and useWood's material.Karen Sparck Jones and Branimir BoguraevComputer LaboratoryUniversity of CambridgeCorn Exchange StreetCambridge CB2 3QG, Englandarpa: sparckjones%cl.cam.ac.uk@cs.ucl.ac.ukREFERENCESBoguraev, B.K.
1979 Automatic Resolution ofLinguistic Ambiguities.Technical Report 11, Computer Laboratory, University ofCambridge.Boguraev, B.K.
and Sparck Jones, K. 1983 How to Drive a DatabaseFront End Using General Semantic Information.
Conference onApplied Natural Language Processing, Santa Monica: 81-88.Wilks, Y.
1977 Good and Bad Arguments about Semantic Primitives.Communication a d Cognition 10:181-221,Wood, F.T.
1979 English Prepositional Idioms.
Macmillan, London,England.68 Computational Linguistics, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2, January-June 1987
