DISCOURSE MODELS~ DIALOG MEMORIES~ ANDUSER MODELSKathar ina Mor ikTechnical UniversityBerlin, West Germany1 INTRODUCTIONIn this paper, we discuss some terminological issuesrelated to the notions of discourse models, dialog mem-ories, and user models.
It is not our goal to show howdiscourse modeling and user modeling should actuallyinteract in a cooperative system, but to show how thenotions of discourse model, dialog memory, and usermodel can be defined and related in order to preventmisunderstandings and confusion.
We argue that dialogmemory may be subsumed under user model, as well asunder discourse model, but that the three conceptsshould not be identified.
Several separating criteria arediscussed.
We conclude that discourse modeling anduser modeling are two lines of research that are orthog-onal to each other.2 DIALOG MEMORY AS PART OF USER MODELA dialog memory can be viewed as part of a user model,namely the part that represents the dialog-dependentknowledge of the user (Morik 1984).
Entries out of thedialog memory may cause entries in the user model, andentries of the user model may support he interpretationof an utterance, the interpretation then being stored inthe dialog memory.
However,  in order to keep technicalterms precise, user modeling on the one hand, andbuilding and exploiting a dialog memory on the otherhand should not be identified.
This would lead to areduction of what user modeling is about by disregard-ing all aspects other than dialog-dependent knowledgeof the user as known to the system, while in fact thereis some information that is to be covered by a usermodel and that may not be covered by a dialog memory.Let us think, for example, of a visit to the dentist's.The dentist will have some expectations concerning theclient before the client said a word---even before heopened his mouth.
This is due to the conversationalsetting, the roles of dentist and client.
The same twopersons meeting in another environment (e.g., at apolitical event, a horse race, or the opera) would notrely on the dentist-client expectations but on the infor-mation that then belongs to their roles.A user model contains explicit assumptions on therole of the user and the way a particular user plays it.The system exploits the user model systematically forplaying its role more cooperatively by adopting todiverse users.
To that end it uses rules which areparametrized according to the facets of the user.
A usermodel is built up based on a "naive psychology",  whichforms a consistent image of the user.Schuster also states that the user model coversentities that do not belong into the dialog memory.
Inaddition to the argument mentioned above (the dialogmemory being the part of the user model that representsthe dialog-dependent knowledge of the user), she pointsout that the dialog memory is used for building up partsof the user model and that both, user model and dialogmemory, are used for generating an adequate answer.But if this were a valid argument for establishing asubsumption relation, we should also view the grammaras part of the user model, because the grammar isnecessary for understanding and producing utterances.All the knowledge sources of a natural anguage system(hopefully) work together.
We separate them conceptu-ally not because of their independence, but becausethey contain different kinds of knowledge that contrib-ute to the overall task in different ways.A dialog memory contains all beliefs that can beinferred with certainty from utterances, so that theybelong to the mutual belief space.
For example, theobjects and their properties introduced in a dialog aretypical entries in a dialog memory.
Also, presupposi-tions that can be inferred from articles or questionparticles belong into the dialog memory.
The linguisticrules that determine the inferences are valid and bindingfor all conversational settings.
General rules establishmutual beliefs on the basis of utterances.
The dialogmemory is then used for, e.g., determining the appro-Copyright 1988 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission tocopy without fee all or part of this material isgranted providedthat he copies are not made for direct commercial dvantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
Tocopy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/88/0100o-o$03.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 3, September 1988 95Katharine Morik Discourse Models, Dialog Memories, and User Modelspriate description (definite/indefinite), anaphoric expres-sion, or characterization.3 DIALOG MEMORY AS PART OF DISCOURSE MODELAnother notion that is very close to user model as wellas to dialog memory is discourse model.
Sometimesdialog memory and discourse model are treated assynonyms (e.g., Wahlster 1986).
Given the above defi-nition of dialog memories, however, there is a differ-ence between the two notions.
As opposed to Schuster,who defines adiscourse model as "containing represen-tations of entities, along with their properties and rela-tions they participate in", which corresponds exactly toour dialog memory, I use discourse model according tothe framework of Grosz and Sidner (1986), where adiscourse model is the syntactic structure of a dialog.One part of it, though, could be identified with thedialog memory, namely the focus space stack.
Theoverall discourse model additionally represents thestructure of the dialog with the segments and theirrelations, which is not part of the user model.
Decom-posing a dialog into segments and establishing relationsbetween them does not depend on a particular conver-sational setting.
As is the case with dialog memories theoverall discourse model, too, is built up by generallinguistic rules that need not be parametrized accordingto a certain user.4 SEPARATING CRITERIAPrevious attempts to separate user models from dis-course models have used the short-time/long-time crite-rion, arguing that entries in the dialog memory can beforgotten after the end of the dialog, whereas entries inthe user model are to be remembered.
The same argu-ment applies to dialog memories as part of the discoursemodel.
The rationale of this argument is that anaphorsare not applicable from one dialog to another and thatthe structure of a dialog is unlikely to be recalled as thesyntactic structure of uttered sentences--just to men-tion these two phenomena.But does that mean that the entities with all theirproperties and relations as communicated in the dialogare forgotten?
What would be the reason to talk to eachother then?
How could we learn from each other?Knowledge is to a great extent ransferred via dialogs.Second, how could speech acts have social obligationsas a consequence that may well hold for a long time?
(Think of promises, for example!)
Although the speakermay have forgotten the dialog, the hearer has--by verygeneral conventions of language use--the right to insiston the speaker's commitments (Lewis 1975, Searle1969, Wunderlich 1972).The synthesis of those seemingly conflicting obser-vations is that the content of the dialog memory isintegrated into the world knowledge.
In other words,the conteilt of the focus space stack is partially incor-porated into the world knowledge when it gets poppedoff the stack.
So, the structure is lost, but the content isat least partly saved.Turniing things the other way around, why couldn'tproperties or character traits of a user be forgotten?What makes entries of a user model more stable?
Think,for instance, of a post office clerk.
Although he mayadapt his behavior to the particular customer during thedialog, he normally forgets the information about her orhim immediately after the dialog.
As Rich (1979) pointedout, user models may be short term or long term.
Thusshort-time/long-time or forgettable/unforgettable is nocriterion for dividing user models from dialog memoriesor discourse models.Another criterion could be, whether the knowledge isused for generating the linguistic form (how to saysomething) or for establishing the content of a system'sutterance (what to say).
Clearly, dialog memory andoverall discourse model deal with the linguistic struc-ture of dialogs, e.g., the reference resolution and theappropriate verbalization of concepts.
The user model,on the other hand, also covers information that directsthe selection of what to utter.
The user's level ofexpertise determines the particularity of a system utter-ance, the realization of notes of caution, and the wordchoice, for instance.
The user's wants establish thecontext of the user utterances and guide the system'sproblem solving, thus keeping the system behaviordirected towards the user goals.This distinction, however, is not clear cut either, fortwo reasons.
First, the line between what to say andhow to say it is rather fuzzy.
Referencing a concept, forexample, also involves choosing the appropriate at-tributes for characterization--and this is naturally amatter of what to say.
Second, this criterion wouldexclude work as presented by Lehman and Carbonell(1988) from the area of user modeling.
There, linguisticrules are specialized for a particular user in a particularconversational setting.
This is clearly not a matter of thedialog memory, but of the user model, although it isconcerned with the linguistic form.
Thus the form/content distinction does not separate user models fromdialog memories and discourse models, either.The difficulty to find criteria separating betweendiscourse models and user models indicates a case ofcross-classification.
The criteria, namely what is spe-cific to a user and what concerns dialog structurenaturally cross.
Dialog memory falls into both catego-ries.On the one hand, from what the user utters hisbeliefs, his level of expertise in a certain domain, hiswants, and his language style can be inferred.
Thisknowledge can be used by all the system components:tuning syntactic analysis, resolving reference, determin-ing the input speech act, disambiguating the input,selecting relevant information, organizing the text to be96 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 3, September 1988Katharine Morik Discourse Models, Dialog Memories, and User Modelsoutputted (Paris 1988), choosing the appropriate words,referencing, topicalizing, etc.
In order to do so, all thecomponents must include procedures that are parame-trized according to the (particular) user model.
Cur-rently, the interactive systems do not put all the userfacets to good use in all their components.
This is notdue to principled limits, however, but rather to ashortcoming in the state of the art.On the other hand, the user 's  utterances can also beanalyzed from another viewpoint, namely incorporatingthem into a coherent discourse model as described by,e.g., Grosz and Sidner (1986).
Also, this model can beused during all processing steps from understanding togenerating.Both user models and discourse models are built up(at least partially) from the user utterances.
Both con-tribute to a cooperative system behavior.
But they do sofrom different viewpoints with different aims.
Adoptingto a particular user on the one hand and achieving acoherent, well-formed ialog on the other hand are twoaims for a cooperative system which are orthogonal toeach other.
The terms user model and discourse modeldenote different aspects of a system.
Thus although thenotions are intensionally different, the extension of theirrespective definitions may overlap.REFERENCESGrosz, B. and Sidner, C. 1986 Attention, Intentions, and the Structureof Discourse.
In Computational Linguistics 12: 175-204.Lehman, J. F. and Carbonell, J. G. 1988 Learning the User's Lan-guage: A Step Towards Automated Creation of User Models.
InKobsa, A. and Wahlster, W.
(eds.
), User Models in DialogSystems.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin--New York.Lewis, D. 1975 Languages and Language.
In Gunderson, K.
(ed.
),Language, Mind and Knowledge, Minnesota Studies in the Phi-losophy of Science 7.
University of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis,MN.Morik, K. 1984 Partnermodellierung u d Interessenprofile b i Dia-logsystemen der Kfinstlichen I telligenz.
In Rollinger, C. R.
(ed.
),Probleme des (Text-) Verstehens: Ansdtze der Kiinstlichen lntel-ligenz.
Niemeyer, Tfibingen, W. Germany.Paris, C. L. 1988 Tailoring Object Descriptions to a User's Level ofExpertise.
In Kobsa, A. and Wahlster, W.
(eds.
), User Models inDialog Systems.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin--New York.Rich, E. 1979 Building and Exploiting User Models.
Ph.D. thesis,Department of Computer Science, Carnegie-Mellon University,Pittsburgh, PA.Searle, J. R. 1969 Speech Acts.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, England.Wahlster, W. 1986 Some Terminological Remarks on User Modeling.Paper presented atthe International Workshop on User Modeling,Maria Laach, W. Germany.Wunderlich, D. 1972 Sprechakte.
In Maas, U. and Wunderlich, D.(eds.
), Pragmatik und sprachliches Handeln, Athen/ium Verlag,Frankfurt, W. Germany.Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 3, September 1988 97
