ASPECT, ASPECTUAL CLASS,  AND THE TEMPORAL STRUCTURE OFNARRATIVEAlexander  Nakh imovskyDepartment of Computer ScienceColgate UniversityHamilton, NY 13346 USAThis paper consists of two parts.
The first part discusses commonsense knowledge about events asmanifested in language.
Three kinds of knowledge are identified: compositional, durational, andaspectual.
Compositional knowledge concerns internal structuring of events into preparatory, initial,main (the body), final, and resulting stages.
Durational knowledge concerns durational relationsbetween events and stages of the same event.
Durational knowledge can be expressed as qualitativedependencies among the parameters of the event and as its time scale.
The notion of time scale isintroduced and related to shared cyclical events (time units).In discussing aspectuai knowledge three notions are distinguished: aspect as a grammatical categoryof the verb, implemented by affixes, auxiliaries, and such; aspectual class, which is a characteristic ofa lexical meaning; and the aspectual perspective of the sentence determined by the position of theReference Time (RT) with respect to the event described by a finite clause.
I argue that an aspectualclassification of situations evolving in time should be based on such considerations as the kinds ofresources they consume and the goals they achieve.
A detailed classification of instantaneous andnoninstantaneous events is developed.The second part of the paper discusses how this knowledge is employed in understanding extendednarratives.
Temporal discontinuities, in conjunction with other kinds of discontinuities identified in thepaper, signal boundaries between discourse segments; within each segment, all three varieties oftemporal knowledge help establish the temporal relations among narrated events.1 INTRODUCTIONThis paper consists of two parts.
1 The first part (sec-tions 2-5) discusses aspect and other varieties of com-monsense knowledge about time as manifested in lan-guage.
The second part (sections 6-8) discusses howthis knowledge is employed in understanding extendednarratives.
This preliminary section spells out the pa-per's principles and aspirations.A major influence on this paper has been the study ofcommonsense knowledge and reasoning in the paradigmestablished in Hayes 1985 (1979), Hobbs and Moore1985, and Hobbs et al, 1985, 1986.
The paper proceedsfrom the premise that commonsense tudies and naturallanguage semantics are closely interdependent: atural-language semantics i essentially incomplete without atheory of the commonsense world, for which naturallanguage provides key empirical data.
These data are oftwo kinds, lexical and grammatical.
So far, mostlylexical data have been used in work on knowledgerepresentation: the contexts of a given word, the struc-ture of semantic fields, and metaphorical uses (Hobbs1984:284, 1985a:3).
This paper suggests that in workingon core knowledge (time, space, causality), it is imper-ative to recognize grammatical categories as powerful,and language specific, tools of organizing conceptualspace.Among grammatical categories particularly impor-tant are those that allow, and indeed force, the languageuser to choose between alternative ways of viewing thesame object or situation.
I will call such categoriessubjective.
A paradigmatic example of a subjectivegrammatical category is aspect.
(In fact, the term aspectcame into being as an attempt to translate the Russianterm vid ("view"); see Lyons 1977:705.)
Subjectivegrammatical categories are important for two reasons.First, they suggest restrictions on the formalism: sinceCopyright 1988 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission tocopy without fee all or part of this material is granted providedthat he copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
Tocopy otherwise, orto republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/88/010029-43503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 29Alexander Nakhimovsky Aslaect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativelanguage users can easily switch between alternativeviews of the same entity, the formalism should providefor alternative representations related by a simple andgeneral operation.
(Bunt 1985:39-40 makes a similarpoint with respect o the opposition mass-count.)
Sec-ond, subjective grammatical categories how that thecorresponding conceptual distinctions reflect our alter-native ways of viewing things rather than intrinsicproperties of things.
There are intrinsic properties thatinteract with subjective distinctions, and in a languagethat does not have a well-articulated subjective gram-matical opposition, the intrinsic and the subjectivebecome asily confused.
An example of such a confu-sion is, I believe, the well-known taxonomy of events,processes, and states (Mourelatos 1981), which is dis-cussed in Section 4.3.It follows that in designing the primitives of oursemantic representations it is essential to look at dataacross languages, paying particular attention to subjec-tive grammatical categories.
(They are easy to identifybecause they are notoriously difficult to learn how touse correctly, possibly because of having to internalizea new global operation on the mental model.)
Decadesof linguistic research can thus be brought o bear on theenterprise of formalizing commonsense knowledge.Conversely, this enterprise makes it possible to posewith greater precision the old problem of how language,and in particular its grammatical categories, influencesour thought and vision of the world.Formalizations of the commonsense may or may notturn out to be language and culture specific, but theywill have to have features particular to our planet andthe species.
Such accidental parameters of human ex-istence as the duration of a year, the length of an arm,and the temperature of the human body are universalconstants that play an important role in our reasoning:they determine how we factor a continuous parameterlike temperature or time into a quantity space (in thesense of Forbus 1985:80-1).
Therefore, and contrary toa widespread view, any rigorous semantics of naturallanguage has to concern itself with definitions of exten-sional concepts.
Such definitions obviously belong inthe lexicon.
In this paper, lexicon is understood to be arepository of both grammatical and commonsenseknowledge, indexed by lexical items.
This view of thelexicon, advocated also in Hobbs et al, 1985, hasimportant antecedents in Soviet and European linguis-tics (Apresjan 1974, Wierzbicka 1985).A second major influence on this paper is the notionof computational modeling of natural-language s man-tics (Hendrix and Moore 1979), i.e., the idea thatsemantical objects associated with natural-language ex-pressions are (typed) data structures, together withinference procedures that operate on them.
These datastructures form an internal representation language thatmay or may not in turn be endowed with a semantics ofits own.
In what follows I assume that semanticalobjects are frames and collections of frames, and thebasic :ypes include frame and slot label (cf.
Creary andPollard 1985, and Hirst 1987, ch.3).
There are sortalpredical~.es, or simply sorts, that are defined on framesand organize them into an ISA hierarchy.The', first cut in the hierarchy is between flamesrepresenting objects and flames representing situationspersis :ing or evolving in time.
(Loosely following Hayes1985, I call the latter histories.)
Orthogonal to thisdistinction is the one between generic flames or types,and their instances or tokens: tokens, but not types,have a slot for a spatio-temporal location.
I will thusspeak of history types (h-types) and history tokens (h-tokens); when the type-token distinction is irrelevant Iwill simply say "history."
H-types can be of variousdegrec.s of generality (cf.
the representations of read,read a book, read a book for an hour; all of these,however, are types of which the representation f Jonread a book for an hour is a token).
Associated witheach h-type is a set of slot labels and selectionalrestrictions on them, usually a conjunction of sortalpredicates (Hobbs et al, 1986).Whether types or tokens, the semantical objects ofnatural-language semantics are only partially specified,and ":nore partial" objects are embeddable, with someprovisions for nonmonotonicity, into less partial ones.
Iassume that representations of lexical items in thelexicon form a discrete level of partiality.
The subject ofthe first part of the paper can then be stated as follows:What is the knowledge about events that is part oflexical meanings?
How can it be coded in the h-types ofthe lexicon, and how is it used as lexical meanings arecombined and embedded into more precisely specifiedstrucrares?
In the end, what it all boils down to is anextended argument for some slots in the lexical repre-sentations of histories and a few sortal predicates onh-types representing aspectual classes.Finally, with respect o narrative understanding, amajor itffluence has been the idea that such understand-ing means constructing, or "building a good structure"(Bruce 1981:283), so that the semantic value of alingui~;tic unit (phrase, sentence) is its contribution tothe emerging representation f discourse.
This idea, inone o1' those parallel developments that do not seem tobe purely coincidental, emerged at about he same timein the Reader-Response chool of literary criticism(e.g., Tompkins 1980), in model-theoretic semantics(Kamp 1981, Heim 1982) and in AI approaches todiscourse; in combination with the idea of computa-tional modeling it first clearly appears in Webber 1979(see also Webber, this volume).2 VARIETIES OF TEMPORAL KNOWLEDGE ANDCOMPOSITION OF H-TYPESThis and the next two sections ummarize and elaborateon the proposals of Nakhimovsky 1986, 1987a.
Com-monscnse knowledge about ime falls into three catego-ries: compositional, durational, and aspectual.
Compo-30 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Alexander Nakhimovsky Aspect, Aspeetual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativesitionally, h-type representations i  the lexicon consistof the following components:a. Preparatory stage.b.
Initial stage.c.
Body.d.
Final stage.e.
Resulting stage.In Nakhimovsky 1986 only components b--e were rec-ognized, but Moens and Steedman 1987 (also this vol-ume) convincingly shows that a needs to be added, atleast when the h-token is a planned human action.Components b--e are probably uncontroversial, exceptin certain cases, discussed below, where they are col-lapsed together.
For example, consider the verb cross,as in cross the road.
It describes movement from oneside of a ribbonal surface to another, following a trajec-tory that is usually at approximately the right angle tothe edge of the surface.
The stages are: be located onone side, cross the edge, move across, cross the otheredge, be located on the other side.
So, as Steedman andMoens observe, the clause When the children crossedthe road .
.
,  can be followed by any of the following:Example 1a.
They waited for the teacher to give a signal.b.
They stepped onto its concrete surface as if itwere about to open and swallow them.c.
They were nearly hit by a car.d.
They reached the other side stricken with fear.e.
They found themselves surrounded by strangers.Moens and Steedman argue, correctly I think, that thedifferent emporal relations between the when clauseand the continuations do not result from the ambiguity,or polysemy, of the temporal connective: the whenclause simply makes both the entire h-token and all itscomponent s ages available for focusing.
What Example1 does show is the weak aspectual typing of Englishverb forms: the same simple past form crossed makesall the stages of the h-type accessible.
The most hat canbe said is that before some, but not all, of the continu-ations in Example 1, the simple past can be replaced bythe progressive.
In languages with strong aspectualtyping an imperfective verb (form) would have to beused in the when clause before (lb) or (lc).This example points up what I believe to be the mainfunction of aspect as a grammatical category: makingeither an h-type in its entirety, or (some subsequence of)its internal stages, available for focusing.
In order tomake the notion of focusing more precise I will use thenotion of Reference Time (RT), adopted from Reichen-bach 1947 but reinterpreted pragmatically: RT is to bethought of as a point or a very short interval thatindicates where the current focus of attention is located.It may be obvious that after (la) RT is located in themiddle of the preparatory stage, after (lb) in the begin-ning of the body right after the initial stage, after (lc) inthe middle of the body, after (ld) in the resulting stageright after the final stage, and after (le) in the resultingstage.
If, by the end of the sentence, the RT is posi-tioned inside the body of the h-token described by thesentence I will say that the sentence has the imperfectiveaspectuai perspective; if the RT is positioned after thefinal stage or, more rarely, before the initial stage, I willsay that the sentence has the perfective aspectual per-spective.
In Example 1, the initial when clause with averb in the simple past leaves the aspectual sentenceperspective underdetermined, which is what I meant byweak aspectual typing of English.Note that the RT never ends up in the middle of theinitial or final stages, because they are too short, muchshorter than the body; they belong to a different imescale.
This does not mean that they are necessarilyinstantaneous in an absolute sense: they are simplyshorter than the body by at least a constant factor, andin a different sentence they can still be presentedimperfectively.
Consider Example 2:Example 2a.
We spent he whole of last week working onBob's project.bl.
In the beginning.
.
.b2.
As we began working on i t .
.
.b3.
When we were just beginning our work .
.
.The verb begin followed by an infinitive or gerund is astandard way of referring to the initial stage of a history.
(Sometimes a lexical item is available as well or instead:"to begin to be asleep" is idiomatically expressed as fallasleep.)
The second sentence of Example 2 thus putsthe RT in the middle of the initial stage of the h-tokendescribed by the first sentence.
Note that if in (2a) wereplace the word week with month, year, decade, ornight, the duration of the beginning varies with theduration of the whole while remaining much shorterthan the body.The fact that we can so "zoom in" on different stagesof a history has led many to conclude that there is noabsolute sense in which events can be described asinstantaneous.
As Allen and Kautz 1985:253 puts it,"we can always 'increase the magnification' and findmore structure" (see also Dowty 1986, Kamp 1979).
Ibelieve that instantaneousness is an absolute qualitydetermined by our biology: instantaneous, events arethose that are not perceived by humans as possessinginternal structure.
Languages elect such events forspecial treatment by disallowing the "imperfective de-scription" of them: one cannot use the imperfectiveaspect o place the RT in the middle of an instantaneousevent, so that The light was flashing does not place theRT inside an individual flash.
Nor can the begin plusgerund construction refer to the initial stage of aninstantaneous event: compare He began crossing thestreet with He began blinking.
The initial stage, thebody and the final stage of an individual blink or flash orComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 31Alexander Nakhimovsky Asl,ect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativeany other instantaneous event are thus inaccessible forfuture focusing, and it makes sense to represent them asall collapsed together.
2Note that the class of instantaneous events can bedefined from three different perspectives correspondingto the three varieties of temporal knowledge postulatedin the beginning of this section.
Durationally, instanta-neous events belong to a time scale that is below acertain threshold of human perception of time (cf.Fraisse 1984:29-30).
Compositionally, they have impov-erished internal structure.
Aspectually, this shows up inimperfective forms of verbs describing instantaneousevents, which are interpreted ifferently than suchforms of verbs describing noninstantaneous histories.3 KNOWLEDGE ABOUT DURATIONSDurations can be entered in the lexicon in the followingthree ways that are not mutually exclusive:a.
For some h-types (e.g., lecture, shower, lunch) weknow the duration of their h-tokens to be stable,albeit approximate.
Such durations can be enteredin the lexicon directly as a fuzzy number, e.g.,lecture \[1 2 hour\] (cf.
Allen and Kautz 1985).
Thisis a simple and least interesting case.b.
For most aspectual classes of histories, duration isconstrained by qualitative functional dependen-cies (Forbus 1985) among the participants of thesituation; so, the time it takes to read a textdepends on its length and genre, and the profi-ciency of the reader.
This case is discussed inSection 4, after the notion of aspectual class isintroduced.c.
For a majority of h-types, constraints on theirdurations can be expressed using the notion oftime scale, introduced below.In order to measure durations one needs cyclicalevents.
These may be celestial, biological, or man-made.
(See Campbell 1986 for a lively discussion.
)Time-measurement units provided by cyclical eventsform several interlocking, multitiered hierarchies.
It iscommonly assumed in AI literature that the choice of ameasurement unit is arbitrary and independent of theinterval to be measured, because we can always switchfrom one unit to another by using axioms of the sorthour = 3600 seconds.
Mathematically, of course, this istrue, but I don't think language quite works this way:when we say It took Bob an hour to repair the faucet,we don't mean that it took him 3600 seconds.
Given aninterval, we choose a unit to measure it with so that theduration is expressed by a "reasonable" number, thatis, not too big.
Small fractions are also avoided: we sayhalf a month or a quarter of an hour, but not one-fifth,-sixth, and so on.
(Note that a quarter is the smallestfraction for which there is a special word; the names forthe rest of them are formed by a regular morphologicalprocess.)
Under these (psychologically) very under-standable restrictions it is rarely the case that an inter-val fit ~ \]precisely into the measurement unit we use.
Thisresults in a certain degree of fuzziness: when we saythat something happened a year ago, we typically don'tclaim to be precise to the day.
The same imprecision isobserved when we use man-made time units such ashours  minutes, and seconds.
The sentences Joe sleptfor th,ee hours, or Joe slept from 2 to 5 do not claimprecision to the minute; in fact, the second sentence canbe continued with He woke up at a quarter after 5feeling greatly refreshed, and the narrative does notbecome self-contradictory.These observations suggest that a duration expressedby a number in hours becomes expressed by a fuzzynumber (an interval) in minutes: \[3 3 hour\] becomessomething like \[160 200 minute\].
(In a richer theory, thedegree of fuzziness would depend on what we knowabout the source of information.)
Since the boundariesof a fuzzy interval are themselves fuzzy, it might seemthat we ought to throw in some seconds at the ends ofthe \[2,50 300\] minutes interval.
However,  the durationwould then be expressed in thousands of seconds, andcommonsense r asoning is too qualitative to deal withsuch big numbers.
The length of the interval suggests ameasurement unit, which, in turn, establishes a certainscale, and durations that are much smaller than thisscale are disregarded.It tiros makes sense to talk of units of measurementthat a:'e "natural"  for a given interval: measured in anatural unit, the length of the interval will not be a verysmall :fraction (greater than some constant R) or a verybig nttmber (less than some constant N).
I wouldn'twant to commit myself to specific values for R and N,but psychologists eem to have a fairly clear idea ofwhat they are (see, e.g., Fraisse 1984).
The time scale ofan interval can then be characterized by the sequence ofits nat aral units, a subsequence of all the duration units.An interval's duration can be represented by fuzzynumbers, e.g., \[1 1 year\] "a  year, about a year" ;  \[1.5 1.5week\].
"a week and a half"; \[2 3 day\] " two to threedays" and so forth.
There are rules that transform fuzzydurations in one unit into fuzzy durations in a smallerunit, but only as long as both units are natural to theinterval being measured: \[1.5 1.5 week\] becomes \[9 12day\], but not \[200 260 hour\].To .zapture the intuition that hours are simply irrele-vant when we talk about weeks, or days when we talkabout years, I introduce the relation much-greater-than,which is readily defined in terms of natural units: i ismuch greater thanj  if and only if (iff) the largest naturalunit o f j  is smaller than the smallest natural unit for i.There are thus two ordering relations defined on dura-tions :neasured in the same scale: greater-than andmuch-greater-than; together, they give rise to an equi(indistlnguishability) relation (cf.
Hobbs 1985, 1986b)defined as follows: two intervals' durations are equi iffthe smaller of the two durations is much greater than thedifference between them.
Note that in this scheme of32 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Alexander Nakhimovsky Aspect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativethings the equi relation is derived, rather than primitiveas in Hobbs's work, and it is not incompatible withgreater-than.
I find it both convenient and intuitivelycorrect that we can treat two intervals as equivalentwithout losing the knowledge, if we have it, that one isgreater than the other.Note that the notion of natural units presented here isrelated to McDermott's (1982) lifetimes: saying that thenatural unit for property p is year means that theproperty lasts (or persists) for years.
It is also related toHobbs's (1985a) grain.
What I propose is that lifetimesand grains are monotonically related: the greater thelifetime, the greater the grain.
Thus the same parameter,natural unit, can capture both.Duration units cut up a continuous parameter (time)into a finite set of quantities.
The set of duration units,with the greater-than and much-greater-than relationson it, thus forms a quantity space for time, in the senseof Forbus 1985:96-7.
We can communicate b cause ourreasoning systems employ the same temporal quantityspace, whose elements are arbitrary in precisely thesame sense in which linguistic signs are arbitrary: eachone of them could have been different, yet none of themcan be changed by the individual speaker/reasoner, whoacquires them in the process of cognitive and linguisticdevelopment.
The same progression of ideas applies,with some modifications, toother one-dimensional sca-lars: distance, temperature, price, height/tallness, andspeed.Given the role of time-measurement u its in theproposed framework, the task of axiomatizing the clockand the calendar, mentioned in Hobbs 1985, becomeshighly important.
It involves identifying the time-mea-surement units, defining them in terms of cyclicalevents, and establishing the much-greater-than relationon them.
There is some discussion of the task inNakhimovsky 1986; here I can give just one illustrationof the relevant empirical arguments.
Apart from mea-surement units with single word names, there are mul-tiples of other units, described by phrases, that havethemselves become measurement units.
Five minutesprovides an example: we talk about 10 or 15 or 20minutes much more commonly than 11 or 14 or 17minutes, and when asked to estimate a duration that isless than an hour we typically use a multiple of fiveminutes.
(Note that this is not true about hours or days.
)If we don't, an unusual precision is implied; compare:Example 3a.
I'll be back in 15 minutes.b.
I'll be back in 14 minutes.There's much more of a broken promise if I'm oneminute late after (3b) than (3a), which indicates a finergrain (smaller scale) in (3b).Clearly, five minutes have become a unit because aminute is a unit, and we have five fingers on each hand.This is yet another example of the anthropocentrismpervading language and commonsense r asoning, thesame antropo-centrism that was mentioned earlier inconnection with instantaneous events.4 ASPECT4.1 GRAMMATICAL ASPECTIn what follows it is essential to keep the following threeconcepts apart: aspect as a grammatical category of theverb, implemented by affixes, auxiliaries, and such;aspectual class, which is a characteristic of an h-type orlexical meaning; and the aspectual perspective of thesentence determined by the position of the RT withrespect to the h-token described by a finite clause.
Thusgrammatical spect is associated with linguistic expres-sions, aspectual class with h-types, and aspectual per-spective with h-tokens.
It is the aspectual perspective ofthe sentence that is ultimately important for understand-ing; both grammatical spect and aspectual class some-times uniquely determine, sometimes just strongly con-strain, the aspectual perspective.
In English, forinstance, the progressive aspect guarantees that thesentence perspective is imperfective, except for sen-tences describing instantaneous events, which, in anylanguage, cannot be presented imperfectively.
(As thediscussion i  the end of Section 2 put it, He was blinkingor He started blinking does not put the RT in the middleof an individual blink.)
This does not mean that verbslike blink are grammatically perfective.There are languages, most notably Slavic, where thedifference in sentence perspective is hard-wired intoverb morphology: simplifying very slightly, every Rus-sian verb is either perfective or imperfective (with thediagnostics being that only imperfective infinitives canfollow verbs like begin or continue), and the morpho-logical feature of the verb determines the aspectualperspective of the sentence.
In English, by contrast,simple past is fairly noncommittal s to the aspectualperspective ofthe sentence, as we saw in the discussionof Example 1.
Another way to describe this contrast isto say that Russian has a perfective-imperfectiveaspectual system, while English has an imperfective-unmarked aspectual system; most aspectual systemsseem to belong to one of these two kinds, with aboutthree-to-one advantage for the perfective-imperfectivesystems in Dahl's (1985) analysis of 64 languages.A fairly common misconception is to assume thatsince English has an imperfective, it ought to have aperfective also.
Obviously, simple past, without anyfurther qualifications, cannot be considered perfective,in view of such obvious examples as Bob owned a houseon Cape Cod.
However, sentences like Vanessa read amagazine article about Mongolia do suggest the perfec-tive perspective: by the end of the sentence the articleseems to have been read (cf.
Hinrichs 1986:68; Dowty1986:46-8 for similar examples and discussion).
I arguethat it would be incorrect o call the verb or the verbphrase in such sentences perfective, because the per-fective sentence perspective emerges not so much fromComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 33Alexander Nakhimovsky Asp ~ct, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativethe linguistic properties of the verb phrase as fromcommonsense knowledge about the situation it de-scribes: a short process that progresses towards awell-defined terminal point beyond which it cannotcontinue.
To see that we are not dealing with a gram-matical category but rather commonsense inference,observe that an appropriate context can change thesentence perspective, as in Example 4, where Va-nessa's reading is interrupted by a doorbell:Example 4After supper, Vanessa and Didi sat down in theliving room.
Vanessa read a magazine articleabout Mongolia, Didi watched her favorite car-toon on television.
Suddenly the doorbell rang.I conclude, in accord, I believe, with Passonneau (1987also this volume), that English has no morphologicalperfective; the perfective ffect arises out of the aspect-ual properties of the history being described, i.e., itsaspectual class.4.2 ASPECTUAL CLASSES OF HISTORIESAn aspectual classification divides lexical meaningsaccording to the internal temporal structuring of thecorresponding h-tokens.
I believe they should bethought of as intrinsic properties of lexical meanings,independent of context and, in particular, aspectualperspective.
Even out of context we know a good dealabout how instances of, e.g., reading or sleeping orwalking to the store are individuated and how theyunfold in time.
This knowledge interacts with, but is notdetermined by, whether the h-token is presented imper-fectively, as in John was walking to the store.The major division among noninstantaneous hi to-ries, recognized at least since Aristotle, is betweenprocess (energeia) and state (stasis).
In recent times,Vendler (1967) proposed a highly influential classifica-tion that is still commonly accepted, although the prin-ciples of classification have changed.
Vendler believed,erroneously, that he was classifying English verbs,rather than their denotations, and he used such lan-guage-specific criteria as whether or not a verb has aprogressive form (Vendler's statives, such as know,don't).
In the Taylor-Dowty model-theoretical version(see, e.g., Dowty 1986), the classification is based onthe relationship between the truth value of a sentence atan interval and at its subintervals.
So, for instance, asentence S is stative (denotes a state) iff it follows fromthe truth of S at an interval I that S is true at allsubintervals of I (the so-called subinterval property, cf.Dowty 1986:42).I submit that these criteria cannot possibly capturethe real distinctions operative in the workings of humanlanguage: these have to relate to something perceivedand experienced, rather than truth values (which is notto deny that real distinctions may result in fairly con-sistent ruth-functional properties).
It is not accidentalthat Dowty's own example of a state (sleep) contradictshis definition: we can truthfully say that Bob slept from10 to ~ even if he got up once to go to the bathroom.
Mypropo:;al is that we take the physical vocabulary ofproce.,ses and states seriously, and classify historiesaccorcLing to their internal dynamics, the stability oftheir parameters, and the resources they consume.
(Partof the internal dynamics, in the presence of a consciousagent, is the degree of required attention and volitionalcontrol.)
We can then note the distinction betweenstates that do not require any resources to sustainthemselves (knowing English, owning a house) andthose :hat do (sleep requires a certain amount of sleep-iness, which gradually wears out).
The subintervalpropel~ty holds only for zero-resource states and is, infact, a simple consequence of their other properties: astate taat requires no resources, including attention andconscious control, obtains continuously.An important group of resources are those that areconsumed by the unconscious and periodic metabolicproce~,ses sustaining a living organism.
I call them"genetic resources" because they are not specific toany particular history, but rather to all individuals of agiven sort.
Resource-consuming states all seem to re-quire only generic internal resources, while withinprocesses, there are those that require only genericresources (walking) and those that require process-specific resources as well: reading, for example, re-quires not only being awake and not too hungry, butalso a text to read.
This is the first of the two importantdivisicns among processes.
The other one separatestelic processes from atelic ones.Telic processes can be defined as processes that havea buill-in terminal point that is reached in the normalcourse of events and beyond which the process cannotcontinue.
Two most common, and overlapping, varie-ties of relic processes are: human activities directed to aspecific goal, and processes that consume a specificamount of a process-specific resource.
So, reading amagazine article is a telic process not only becausereading is a goal-directed activity, but also because anarticle contains a limited amount of the process-specificresource (reading matter) that gets steadily consumed asthe process unfolds.
Temporal information about a telicprocess thus includes a typical rate of progress towardsits goal or a typical rate of consumption of its resource.A comparison of the preparatory and the resultingstages of a telic process hows the possible changes thatsuch processes bring about: a telic process can create anobject, destroy an object, modify an object, or move aspecified amount of material (possibly the mover him-self) to a specified estination.
A subclass of destructionprocesses are ingestions, which convert an externalresource into an internal one.
Moving is understood toinclude all three of Schank's PTRANS, ATRANS, andMTRANS classes (Schank 1975).
Moving also includesgradual (but not instantaneous) changes of state.It has been observed (in Verkyul 1972 and othersafter him) that the aspectual class of a telic predicate is34 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Alexander Nakhimovsky Aspect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativeaffected, in regular ways, by the properties of itsnoun-phrase (NP) complements, especially theme.
Suchdistinctions as plural-singular, group-individual, andmass-count are particularly important, as well as thedegree of granularity-homogeneity and internal struc-ture.
To take a well-known example, Bill crossed theborder describes an instantaneous event; The regimentcrossed the border describes a noninstantaneous h-token with a beginning, body, and end; and Drugsmugglers crossed the border easily describes an activ-ity that continues as long as there are drug smugglers.The aspectual properties of telic h-tokens thus arisecompositionally in context; 3 however, it still makessense to talk of the aspectual clas s of a telic h-type as itmanifests itself in h-tokens with atomic individuals asthemes.4.3 EVENTS, PROCESSES, AND STATESNow I briefly comment on how the conceptual frame-work developed here relates to a classification of histo-ries into events, processes, and states (Mourelatos1981).
For a linguist, the distinction event-process is oneof aspectual perspective: "The term 'process' means adynamic situation viewed imperfectively, and the term'event' means a dynamic situation viewed perfectively"(Comrie 1976:51).
The distinction process-state is one ofaspectual class.
Thus the sentence John was walking tothe store describes a process, not a state, becausewalking in general, and walking to a specified destina-tion in particular, is intrinsically a process; it describesa process and not an event because the h-token isviewed imperfectively.
I think the lexicon can be mademore consistent and informative if the notion of aspect-ual class (lexical aspect, Aktionsart) is kept separatefrom the aspectual sentence perspective.An important piece of evidence for keeping thedistinctions event-process and process-state s parate isprovided by events "made out of"  states such as theevent described by Bobby took a nap.
(Cf.
also did somereading, went for a walk.)
Collocations of this naturehave never, to my knowledge, been discussed in con-nection with the English aspectual system, preciselybecause, in English, it is easy to associate telicity (anintrinsic lexical property) and perfectivity (the value ofa subjective grammatical category).
In languages with awell-articulated perfective aspect a stretch of mostatelic activity can be viewed perfectively, i.e., as anevent.
For instance, He walked (perfective), clearlyatelic, would mean something like "He  walked for awhile/he took a walk"- -c lear ly an event.
Atelic histo-ries, of course, lend themselves more readily to theimperfective view; Nakhimovsky 1983:80-2 documentssome subtle ways in which "aspectual"  languages dis-tinguish between atelic events, which are events simplyby virtue of allocating them a limited amount of time,and telic events, which are intrinsically bounded in timeby the very manner in which they unfold.
Telic eventstend to be identified as a natural class because theysupport perhaps the most common temporal inferencewe make: given a telic history viewed perfectively, weinfer that the end point is reached.
(This is made moreprecise in Section 4.5.)
For all that, telicity and perfec-tivity remain distinct, if not entirely orthogonal,categories .44.4 A CLASSIFICATION OF INSTANTANEOUS EVENTSUnlike noninstantaneous histories, instantaneousevents lack internal structure and have to be classifiedby comparing the world before and after them.
Aninstantaneous event can terminate ither a process or astate, and it can initiate either a process or a state; if itis sandwiched between two processes or two states, thetwo can be the same or different.
The resulting classi-fication is shown in Table 2, next page.
It can be seenthat in English, most verbs describing instantaneousevents fall into the first three groups, where the instan-taneous event meets a state.
Sometimes the name of theprocess can be used to describe its beginning, as in Sheran, i.e., "set out running.
"Among the three groups of instantaneous events,happenings always have a progressive form, and theyalways describe a sequence of instantaneous h-tokens.Transitions may or may not have a progressive form; ifthey do, progressive is again associated with plurality,e.g., He's been noticing that .
.
.
(the implication beingthat the noticing has taken place on many occasions.Observe the inference that between the occasions thereis a return to the initial state of the transition: in order toagain notice, i.e., become aware of something, one hasto first cease to be aware of it.).
Finally, culminationsusually have progressive forms that allow two interpre-tations.
One is the familiar idea of plurality: The trav-elers, one by one, were reaching the summit.
The otherarises from the nature of culminations, which crownprocesses with sharply defined end points: the top of aclimb, the finish of a race.
The progressive of a culmi-nation verb describes an h-token whose lifetime is anopen interval properly contained in the time of theprocess that leads to the instantaneous event.
I con-clude that the proposed classification, although basedon extra-linguistic considerations, captures alient dis-tinctions in the meaning of linguistic forms.All the classifications developed in this section arebrought ogether in tables 1-3, next page.4.5 ASPECTUAL CLASS, SENTENCE PERSPECTIVE, ANDINFERENCERecall that the aspectual sentence perspective is deter-mined by the position of the RT, either inside the timeof an h-token or after that.
In interaction with theknowledge about the internal composition of h-tokens,the position of the RT creates expectations, which canbe stated using the notions of time scale and expendedresources.
Consider first an example: the h-token ofSharon reading a novel can terminate in one of thefollowing four ways:Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 35Alexander Nakhimovsky Aspect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of NarrativeASPECTUAL CLASSESPOSSESSING INTERNAL STRUCTURENOT POSSESSING INTERNAL State ProcessSTRUCTURE (instantaneous) \[Atelic Telic\[ SAME, VIEWED FROM INSIDETable 1.
Top-level classification.Configuration Label Examplesstate-E-same state happening flash, cough, jumpstate-E-different state transition forget, recognize, notice,process-E-state culmination win the race, reach the topprocess-E-same process disturbance examplesstate-E-process activation more difficultprocess-E-different process switch to findTable 2.
Instantaneous events.STATES PROCESSES IIatelie: atelic: I telicgeneric resource specific resource Izero-resource \] generic resourceIrelations:own sleeppossess standresemble sitperceptions: liesee holdhear lean againstfeelmental states:knowremembertrustwalkrunthink(of)workread read a bookwrite write a letterbuild build a chairdig dig a holeshaveTable 3.
Noninstantaneous h-types.natural end: Within a certain time scale, Sharonfinished the novel;exhaustion: Within a certain time scale, determinedby a different set of resources, Sharon got tired ofreading;volition: Sharon decided to put the novel down;interruption: Something happened that made readingimpossible: Sharon's friend took the novel awayfrom her, the lights went out, her attention wasdistracted by loud music.Generalizing from this example, we can say that whenthe RT finds itself inside an h-token, some or all of thefollowing expectations are set up, depending on theinternal dynamics of the h-token and the presence orabsence of volitional control:?
If the h-token has an Agent participant, it can beinterrupted by the Agent's decision to do so.
(Thedecision may turn out to be impossible to implementbut the h-token is then transformed into a differentone, in which the former Agent perhaps becomes anObject or Patient: think of a driver trying to stop thecar and going into a skid.)?
If the h-token consumes generic resources (i.e., if it isa process or a resource consuming state) then, withina certain time scale, it comes to an end when thegeneric" resource is exhausted.?
If the h-token is a telic process, then, within a certaintime scale, the process will come to its natural end.?
Finally, and most difficult to detect, the h-token maycome to an end if some of its preconditions no longerhold, causing an interruption of the h-token.The causality involved in interruption may be indirect,and a complete specification of everything that can gowrong is clearly impossible, but no such completenessis observed in human reasoning, either.
What we canand ought to do is list in the lexicon the main precon-ditions for processes and states expressed by lexicalitems.
Assuming that the lexicon is organized as aninheritance hierarchy, a great deal of preconditions willbe shared by entire classes of histories.
Some examplesare given in Nakhimovsky 1987a.The most noticeable xpectations are those arisingwhen a telic process is viewed imperfectively, and thelogical problems of reasoning with expectations werefirst observed on such processes.
This is Dowty's (1977)"imperfective paradox",  i.e., the problem of giving "anaccount of how \[John was drawing a circle\] entails thatJohn was engaged in bringing-a-circle-into-existenceactivity but does not entail that he brought a circle intoexistence" (p.46).
From the perspective of the interven-ing years it can be seen that Dowty here grapples withthe default, nonmonotonic nature of the inferencesinvolved.
The progressive sentence puts the RT in themiddle of the time of John's activity; if another sentenceputs the RT after that interval, we infer, unless or untiltold otherwise, that the activity came to its natural end.More precisely, the inference works as follows:Telic-lmperfective inference rule: If one sentence in anarrative tells us that a telic history hi has begun oris in progress, and a later sentence moves the RT intoor beyond a later history h2, and the time distancebetween hl and h2 is of the same or a greater scalethan the time scale o fh l ,  then assume, unless or untiltold otherwise, that the end-point of hl is reached.The rule can be illustrated by the following narrative: Inthe afternoon, when Johnny was writing a postcard tohis friend, Mommy went to the market.
In the eveningthey played together.
Knowing how long it takes, weinfer that Johnny finished his postcard and Mommy hershopping.
However,  the inferences are withdrawn ifcontradicted: the narrative could continue with untilMommy discovered that the postcard never got written.To see the importance of time scale, replace "writing apostcard" with "reading War and Peace.
"4.6 DURATIONAL CONSTRAINTSThe examples of the preceding section illustrate twofacts about temporal reasoning that I believe are crucialfor any implementation of narrative understanding: (a)knowledge about internal constituency of events andtemporal relations between them is tightly integrated36 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Alexander Nakhimovsky Aspect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativewith durational knowledge; (b) durational knowledgeincludes a great many constraints originating in celes-tial, biological, and civilization-specific cycles.
The firstof these facts is recognized and implemented in Allenand Kautz 1985.
The implementation suggestions madehere all derive from that paper and Forbus 1985.
Allenand Kautz also note that "in more complicated situa-tions, certain units (such as the standard time units--minutes, hours, weeks, etc.)
can be used as referencedurations to keep the network of manageable size" (p.260).
How this ties in with (b) above can be seen byrecasting Allen and Kautz's example of a unified (tem-poral relations + durations) implementation i thepresent framework.
The example in its entirety is asfollows (pp.
260-1):Example 5a.
Moe and Larry began reading Principia Mathe-matica.b.
Moe read for over an hour.c.
Larry stopped reading and fell asleep after 10minutes.Allen and Kautz interpret (5a) to mean that Moe andLarry started reading simultaneously (and may or maynot have finished together).
But surely, language is notthat precise: (5a) can be said about two students whoboth started reading the book in September for a coursethey were taking in the fall semester.
The most one cansay about (5a) is that the time distance between \[began-read Moe\] and \[began-read Larry\] is much-shorter-thanthe expected uration of reading.
This is an instance ofa general rule, noted in the end of Section 2, that theduration of an h-token is much-greater-than thedura-tions of its beginning and end.Sentence (5b) supplies both a duration and a timescale.
Allen and Kautz's representation again under-constrains: they interpret the sentence to mean that theduration of Moe's reading is (1 ~).
An obvious con-straint is that Moe read for less than a day, but moreprecisely "over an hour" implicates "less than twohours"; in general, "over/after n units of time" impli-cates "less than n + 1 units."
(This is an instance ofHorn's (1984) scalar implicature.)
Allen and Kautz, infact, make an implicit use of this implicature when theyinterpret (5c) to mean that Larry read 10 to 15 minutes(p. 261).
The interpretation is correct because 5minutesis a duration-measurement uni in our language, asmentioned in Section 3 above.It appears that the varieties of temporal knowledgeproposed in this paper result in a richer set of con-straints that give a more adequate picture of (5) and canhandle more complex narratives.
They also indicate afairly clear connection between the task of naturallanguage understanding and the enterprise of naive orqualitative physics (Hayes 1985, 1985a; Forbus 1985).The entire aspectual classification of histories is basedon taking seriously the physical vocabulary of processesand states, and the reasoning of the preceding section isan example of Forbus's (1985) limit analysis.
In general,nonmonotonic constraint propagation over interactingprocesses evolving in time is the essence of naivephysics.
These similarities suggest that qualitative proc-ess descriptions of Forbus 1985 can serve as a model forlexical entries describing h-types.
(Some examples canbe found in Nakhimovsky 1987a.
)5 NARRATIVES AND THEIR REPRESENTATIONSDiscussions of tense and aspect in discourse invariablyseem to converge on narrative discourse, rather thanconversation rexposition.
The reasons, I believe, haveto do with several profound, if somewhat speculative,distinctions: between semantic and episodic memory;between on-line perception of time effected by biologi-cal clocks and detached time cognition rooted in long-term memory; and between subjective and objectivediscourse.
Briefly and, I repeat, speculatively, exposi-tion contributes to semantic memory while narrativebuilds an episodic representation; conversation is abreed apart because the time of a conversation coin-cides with the time of its content, with simultaneity intime typically accompanied by a tight integration be-tween the linguistic and nonlinguistic behavior: theverbalization ofhow-to-get-there directions i the actionof giving directions; task-oriented conversations be-tween an expert and apprentice are an integral part ofperforming the task at hand, and the unfolding text of anargumentative dialogue is precisely the activity of argu-ing.
Conversation can thus properly be called performa-tire discourse.
By contrast, the content of a narrative isdecoupled from the linear progression of its text andunfolds in its own, separate timeline.
5Whatever the reasons, it is certainly the case that (a)tense, aspect, and mood systems of the verb are fre-quently more finely nuanced in the past than in thepresent or future, and never the other way around; (b)the tense of narrative discourse is past, in its manyvarieties; (c) the past tense in narratives is not inter-preted with respect o the situation of discourse.
Inplace of the situation of discourse, a narrative is proc-essed with respect o a constantly maintained eicticcenter, which is "the locus in conceptual space-time ofthe objects and events depicted or described by thesentences currently being perceived.
At any point in thenarrative, the cognitive agent's attention is focused onparticular characters (and other objects) standing inparticular temporal and spatial relations to each other.Moreover, the agent 'looks' at the narrative from theperspective of a particular character, spatial locationand temporal location.
Thus the deictic center consistsof a WHERE-point, a WHEN-point and a WHO point.
"(Bruder et al, 1986:1).
In this paper, the WHEN-pointof the deictic center is referred to as the temporal focus,or TF (cf.
Webber 1987a,b; Nakhimovsky 1987b).
Thisterm is adopted because it brings out the similarityComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 37Alexander Nakhimovsky Aspect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativebetween definite and temporal anaphora (cf.
Webber,this volume, for the genesis of this idea.
).Not one but two structures are thus needed torepresent a narrative: the event-situation structure (ESS,cf.
Webber 1987b), representing the narrative's unfold-ing contents, and the l inear text structure (LTS), whosecomponents are linked by rhetorical relations such aselaboration, resumption, or flashback (see, e.g., Hobbs1982).
Next to ESS and LTS, there must also be ashort-term emory structure called current focus space(CFS) and a buffer in which the representation f thecurrent sentence is assembled.
Among the componentsof the CFS are the data structures needed for compre-hension of definite anaphora (such as the Focus Stackand Alternate Focus List in Sidner 1983), as well as thecomponents of the current deictic center, which arereally pointers to the appropriate nodes of the ESS.After the first sentence of a narrative stablishes theinitial set-up, each subsequent sentence is processed inthe context consisting of the ESS and the CFS.
Depend-ing on the sentence's meaning, one of two thingshappen: either the representation of the sentence isincorporated in the CFS, with the focusing mechanismsappropriately modified; or, in the case of a focus shift,the contents of the CFS are incorporated into the ESSand LTS, and the CFS is completely reset.
In terms oftext structure, the current sentence ither continues thesame, or starts a new, discourse segment (DS; cf.
Groszand Sidner 1986).The nature of the processing at the DS juncture isthus quite different from the "routine" tasks to beperformed as long as the text remains in the same DS:the start of new DS prompts, and is prompted by, a shiftof attention.
The circularity here is deliberate.
The startof a new DS brings about several changes, some of themmore immediately noticeable than others; the moreobvious ones serve to signal that a new DS is, indeed,started.
Some of the most important such signals comefrom changes in time scale, aspectual class, and othertemporal characteristics of narrated h-tokens.
Thesetemporal discontinuities are usually accompanied bydiscontinuities of other kinds that form recurrent pat-terns; I suspect, and this is an empirical hypothesis, thatrhetorical relations within a narrative text are macrola-bels that stand for certain oft-repeated clusters of dis-continuities.
In any event, the task of segmenting nar-ratives into units that form the basic elements ofdiscourse representations and constrain the applicationof focusing algorithms i obviously very important.
Thetask is frequently mentioned in work on discourse (seeGrosz and Sidner 1986:177-8 and references there), butthe available heuristics mostly rely on clue words andphrases.
I propose heuristics based on four kinds ofdiscontinuities: discontinuities of topic, discontinuitiesof space and time, discontinuities of figure and ground,and discontinuities of the narrative perspective (not tobe confused with aspectual sentence perspective).
Iexplain these after a preliminary and partial illustration.Consider' Example 6.Example 6a.
Hartley and Phoebe had been sent by theirmother to fix the tail vane of the windmill.b.
In the great expanse of the prairie where theylived, the high tower of the windmill was theonly real landmark.
(Worline 1956:1)Rhetorically speaking, the (b) sentence above interruptsa sequence of events (DS1) to start DS2, a description.In order to recognize this rhetorical relation betweenthe two DSs it is necessary to recognize that:a. there is a shift of topic;b. there is a shift in perceptual modality to visualperception;c. there is a shift in time scale from the events ofthe current day to years or decades, associatedwith the lifetime of a windmill and the 'wherethey lived' clause;d. there is a shift in spatial scale from a householdto the entire prairie;e. there is a shift from a foregrounded sequence ofevents to the 'mopping-up' operation of fillingthe background.
The shift is signaled by changesin aspectual class.The following empirical investigation thus suggestsitself: classify the discontinuities and clusters of discon-tinuities that typically accompany DS breaks in narra-tives; identify the linguistic and extralinguistic knowl-edge involved; develop heuristics for using thisknowledge; and test the heuristics in a computer pro-gram.
6 This paper presents a classification that arisesfrom an analysis of what constitutes a narrative.The first observation to make is that a narrative musthave a \]plot, i.e., present a sequence of events that formsan instance of a recognizable pattern.
(The patterns arepart universal, part culture specific; the work in Lehnert1982 can be seen as a search for the principles on whichsuch patterns are built.)
Using the Gestalt erminology(brought into linguistics by Talmy 1983) I can say that anarrative's plot must present a recognizable temporal/causal figure shown against some ground that minimallyconsists of spatial/visual settings (descriptions of char-acters are also frequent).
The distinction is not alwaysclear-cut because lements of the figure can be hiddenamong the details of the ground, but the temporal natureof the plot does stand in clear contrast o the spatialnature of the ground.Secondly, a narrative must have characters withwhich we empathize.
These characters don't have to behuman: one can easily imagine a story about an adven-turesome plant seed that falls off its parent, gets swal-lowed and excreted by a horse, and nearly drowns in atropical rain before being miraculously saved by the sunand producing a flower.
Even so, the narrative is likelyto alternate between the objective narrator's point of38 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Alexander Nakhimovsky Aspect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativeview and that of one of the characters.
("The belly ofthe horse was dark and noisy inside.")
Some disconti-nuities of narratives very simply reflect the intrinsic,spatial, or temporal discontinuities of the plot, when,e.g., the story is composed of a sequence of eventstaking place during an afternoon, followed by twoyears' hiatus, followed by another action-packed after-noon.
(A similar example of a spatial discontinuity canbe easily imagined.)
One measure of the "simplicity" ofa narrative is how faithfully the order and structuring ofits text reflects the order and structuring of its compo-nent events.
Even in the simplest narrative, however,there are bound to be discontinuities resulting from thetension between the linear nature of the text and themultidimensional structure that it is meant to evoke.These are discontinuities offigure and ground, when thenarrative shifts between the main story line and thesurrounding circumstance, and discontinuities of per-spective, when the narrative crosses into a different"empathy space" or creates a new one.Given this classification of discontinuities one canproceed to catalogue the clues that signal them.
This isa subject for a large empirical study, of which the nextsection is but a preliminary sketch.
It is important tokeep in mind that it is clusters of discontinuities thatsignal the beginning of a new DS.6 DISCONTINUITIES IN NARRATIVES6.1 DISCONTINUITIES OF TOPICDiscontinuities of topic fall in two groups.
In the first,there is no anaphoric relation or immediate inferencepath from the new topic to a node in the CFS.
What "animmediate inference path" is depends, of course, on thesystem's knowledge base and inferential capabilities,but this is a separate big issue that is not dealt with inthis paper.
The second kind of discontinuity, noted inReichman 1985, arises when an anaphoric relation ex-ists and allows a pronominal anaphor, but the topic isinstead reintroduced by a full noun phrase.
I call thisphenomenon topic reintroduction and illustrate it in 6.5.6.2 TEMPORAL DISCONTINUITIESThe most important temporal discontinuities are:(a) A shift from perfective to imperfective sentenceperspective accompanied by a shift to a muchgreater time scale.
The corresponding rhetoricalmove is frequently characterized as "introducingbackground or descriptive material".
The moveis frequently accompanied by a topic reintroduc-tion.
(b) The reverse shift from descriptive material to themain line of the narrative.
This move is signaledby the temporal focus (TF), and the entire deicticcenter, returning to an established node in theESS, with an appropriate contraction of the timescale.
(c) A backwards move of the TF to an earlier point intime, with or without a change in time scale.Rhetorically, this is known as flashback.
Thismove is frequently signaled by a verb in pastperfect or by the used to + infinitive construc-tion, although a shift may occur without such averb form, and the presence of such a verb formdoes not necessarily signal a shift: the referencetime of the sentence may remain the same as,rather than precede, the current TF.
(Section 7illustrates; see also Almeida 1987 and Webber1987b, this volume.
)6.3 SPATIAL DISCONTINUITIESThe only purely spatial discontinuities I have looked atare discontinuities of scale.
Just as h-types have timescales associated with them, characterized in terms of"received" cyclical events uch as day or year, it seemsequally necessary to establish a gradation of spatialscales, based on similar considerations from humanbiology and habitat.
(A hint at the same idea can befound in Nirenburg et al, 1985:230.)
Some importantspatial scales are: tiny, hand, one's body (may need tobe further specialized); within arm's reach; room area,such as desk or bed; room; floor; house; household;village or neighborhood; larger area within a between-meals round trip; within a day's round trip; stayingovernight.
(The larger the scale, the more domain- andculture-specific variation there is.
)6.4 DISCONTINUITIES OF PERSPECTIVETwo kinds of phenomena are clearly relevant: attitudereports, and indications of the spatial position fromwhich things are perceived (the WHO-point in Bruder etal., 1986).
The subject needs further study.6.5 AN EXAMPLEThe remainder of this section shows how the aboveheuristics work themselves out on the initial fragment ofJoyce's "Clay" (Joyce 1969:99-106).
The fragment fallsinto three DSs: Sentence 1, sentences 2-6, and sen-tences 6-12; Sentence 13 starts a fourth DS by returningto the first one.
Embedded in DS3 is DS3.1 consisting ofsentences 9-10.1.
The matron had given her leave to go out as soonas the women's tea was over and Maria lookedforward to her evening out.
2.
The kitchen was spickand span: the cook said you could see yourself in thebig copper boilers.
3.
The fire was nice and bright andon one of the side-tables were four very big barm-bracks.
4.
These barmbracks eemed uncut; but ifyou went closer you would see that they had been cutinto long thick even slices and were ready to behanded round at tea.
5.
Maria had cut them herself.6.
Maria was a very, very small person indeed butshe had a very long nose and a very long chin.
7.
Shetalked a little through her nose, always soothingly:Yes, my dear, and No, my dear.
8.
She was alwayssent for when the women quarrelled over their tubsComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 39Alexander Nakhimovsky Aspect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativeand always succeeded in making peace.
9.
One daythe matron had said to her:--Maria, you are a veri-table peace-maker!
10.
And the sub-matron and twoof the Board ladies had heard the compliment.
1 I.And Ginger Mooney was always saying what shewouldn't do to the dummy who had charge of theirons if it wasn't for Maria.
12.
Everyone was so fondof Maria.13.
The women would have their tea at six o'clockand she would be able to get away before seven.The transition from Sentence 1to 2 is very similar to thetransition from (a) to (b) in Example 6: it is a shift fromfigure to ground marked primarily by aspectual changesand a shift from temporal to spatial/visual material.
Thechange in time and space scales is not as dramatic here,but, on the other hand, there is a discontinuity ofperspective as the story shifts from Maria's attitudereport ("Maria looked forward") to the objective per-spective of the implied narrator ("The kitchen wasspick and span .
.
.
").The transition from 5 to 6 (paragraph break) ischaracterized by a shift in time scale and a topicreintroduction.
The material is a (back)ground characterdescription: "Maria is such that .
.
.
.  "
The beginningof DS3.1 is signaled by a well-known "clue phrase"One day and by the past perfect tense.
Note that thematerial is still ground ("Maria is such that .
.
.
.  ")
butthe precise relationship between DS3 and DS3.1 isambiguous: they can be siblings.
Only when DS3 re-turns in Sentence 11 (the signals are the return to thesimple past and the sentence-initial nd) is it establishedthat DS3.1 is, indeed, embedded in DS3.The transition from 12 to 13 (the next paragraphbreak) is a return to the event sequence of Sentence 1.The position of the TF, and the entire deictic center isindicated by the future-in-the-past tense.
Note that it isessential to retrieve the entire deictic center, and notjust the TF, because the WHO-point is also restored:the she in 13 does not evoke Maria of Sentence 12 orany other sentence in DS2 and 3 presented from theperspective of the implied narrator.
Rather, this pro-noun is a quasi-indexical (Rapaport 1986) that replacesthe first-person singular I of a portion of the narrativefrom Maria's perspective, signaled by Maria lookedforward in Sentence 1.7 NARRATIVE MOVESIt is a common intuition that, as a narrative progresses,TF changes its position in time.
I will refer to themovement of TF from one sentence of the narrative tothe next as the narrative move.
Narrative moves can beclassified along several dimensions.
First off, the TFcan remain in the same timeline or branch off to analternative one.
(Such branchings-off are usually sig-naled by a nonindicative mood of the verb; this paperhas nothing more to say about them.)
Within the sametimeline, the TF can move forward, sideways (into anoverlapping h-token), or backwards, to an earlier h-token.
In each of these three cases, the move may ormay not be accompanied by a change in time scale.Finally, the TF can remain within the current focusspace or shift to a different one.
(In terms of linguisticstructure, the current sentence may continue the same,or start a new, DS.)
I will coin the terms mieromove andmacromove for the last distinction.The preceding section argued that, if considered inthe context of the entire deictic center movements,macromoves can be fully catalogued and associatedwith a limited set of rhetorical labels.
It appears evenmore likely that micromoves also form a small set ofrecurrent patterns, because they are additionally con-strained by the requirement that they cannot introducea drastic discontinuity.
I present a sample of micro-moves below, contrasting them with macromoves; theexposition is organized by the temporal classification ofnarrative moves (backward, sideways, or forward).Much of the material of this section overlaps withWebber (this volume); some of the examples are fromDowty 1986.7.1 BACKWARD MOVESBackward moves are always macromoves, i.e., theyalways introduce a DS break.
This is not as drastic aclaim as it might seem, because simply narrating anh-token that precedes the current TF does not neces-sarily introduce a backward move.
In particular, onesentence in the past perfect does not produce a back-ward move.
(This point is made, with respect to theFrench plus-que-parfait, n Kamp and Rohrer 1983:256fn.)
If the out-of-sequence h-token is presented perfec-tively, i.e., the RT is after it, the TF does not movebackward.
Compare the following two examples:Example 7The telephone rang: it Was Mme Dupont; herhusband had eaten too many oysters for lunch.The doctor recommended a change in lifestyle.Example 8. .
.
Tessie sat beside \[Phoebe\] with Araminta.Araminta had begun as an ear of corn.
On a pieceof cloth Mother had painted a face, using bluingfor the eyes .
.
.
She had stitched on smallerpieces of cloth, black for the nose, pink for thechecks and red for the mouth.
She had tied thecloth over one end of the ear of corn, then made a- bonnet o go over that .
.
.
All in all Araminta wasone of the most elegant members of the Dawsonfamily.
(Worline 1956:28).In (7) the past perfect is like the present perfect in adialogue: it indicates precedence and relevance but doesnot shift the TF.
In (8) the past perfect is like a pasttense in a dialogue: it creates a new TF position towhich subsequent sentences refer, until simple past40 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Alexander Nakhimovsky Aspect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativeterminates the embedded DS and returns to the oneinterrupted by the backwards move.A sentence in the simple past following a sentence inthe past perfect does not always terminate an embeddedDS: nontemporal anaphora may integrate the two sen-tences (cf.
Webber, Example 20 in this issue, anddiscussion).
Such a past perfect/simple past configura-tion is a must if one wants to go into a long, multi-FSdigression, because there seems to be a strong limit onhow long an embedded DS can continue in the pastperfect, as in (8).
Consider:Example 9John was the captain of Penn's squash team.
Hehad previously been captain of the Haverfordteam, but the coach there started chasing afterJohn's girlfriend and John got very upset.
One dayhe went to talk to the coach, but .
.
.Example 9 can now continue with an embedded narra-tive of arbitrary length.
However,  the interrupted DShas to be eventually resumed, otherwise the narrative isperceived as sloppy (or, if Proust does it, self-con-scious, cf.
Genette 1980:66-67).7.2 SIDEWAYS AND FORWARD MOVESThe majority of micromoves belong in these two cate-gories, and in this brief subsection I cannot possibly dojustice to them all.
What I try to do is establish aframework, based on the conceptual apparatus of thispaper, for a more detailed investigation.I assume, for simplicity, that both the most recentlyprocessed sentence (SO) and the current sentence (S1)consist of just one clause each, narrating h-tokens H0and HI ,  respectively; the verbs in the sentences, V0 andV1, can be either past or progressive, and their aspect-ual classes can be any of those introduced in Section 3.Consider a few combinations.H0: telic, simple past-Hl: telic, simple pastExample 10a.
John entered the president's office.
The presi-dent got up.b.
John blew his nose.
The president mopped hisbrow.c.
John hid in the president's office.
Bob lockedhimself up in the closet.This combination is most frequently a sequence, as in(a), but not necessarily so.
If H0 and H1 are not relatedby an obvious chain of causality the sequencing is notobvious, and if they both can be construed as responsesto the same event, they are interpreted as overlapping,cf.
(b) and (c).H0: telic, simple past-Hl: atelic or state, simple pastH0: telic, simple past-Hl: non-instantaneous,progressiveExample 11a.
John entered the president's office.
The presi-dent was asleep.b.
John entered the president's office.
The presi-dent was writing a letter.In these examples, there is no compositional relationbetween H0 and HI ,  and H1 is interpreted as beginningbefore H1 and continuing after it.
However,  considerthe following texts, in which H1 is part of the body, orthe resulting stage, of H0:Example 12John knelt at the edge of the stream and washedhis hands and face.
He washed slowly, feeling thewelcome sensation of the icy water on his parchedskin.Example 13a.
Bob turned off the light.
It was dark around him.b.
Bob heard a loud click.
The door behind himwas locked.c.
Bob closed his eyes.
He was asleep.In (13), the narrative moves forward, into a narratedh-token.
The conditions for the move are that there is adirect inferential link from H0 to HI ,  and/or some sortof incompatibility between them.
So, before Bob's eyeswere closed they had to be open, which, for most of us,is incompatible with being asleep; on the other hand,one frequently closes one's eyes with the intention ofgoing to sleep.
7H0: state, atelic or progressive-HI: state, atelic orprogressiveExample 14a.
John was fixing an electrical appliance down-stairs.
Suddenly, the whole house was dark.b.
The president was conducting the interview withMary in a cold, official manner.
Suddenly, to herutter amazement, he was offering her an impor-tant job.The contrast between (11) and (13) illustrates the fol-lowing narrative principle: it is easy to move sidewaysinto a narrated h-token, but it is difficult to moveforward into one.
(In other words, an imperfectivesentence will not be interpreted as advancing the TFunless such an interpretation is forced by some form ofincompatibility and causality.)
It is especially difficult tomove forward from inside one interval into another one,as in Example 14.
In fact, such a move cannot beeffected without the help of an adverbial that acknowl-edges the gap (try removing suddenly from the exam-ples).This concludes my discussion of narrative moves.The sampling given here is certainly not complete, butan extensive empirical investigation can, I believe,produce a full catalogue, organized by the configurationof tenses, aspectual classes, and time scales of theComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 41Alexander Nakhimovsky Aspect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of Narrativeh-tokens involved.
As the examples of this sectionshow, no such configuration determines the narrativemove uniquely, but they strongly constrain the choices.8 CONCLUSIONSThis paper suggests several empirical investigationshaving to do with the lexicon and discourse.
In conclu-sion, I would like to recapitulate them and outline somepossible ways to proceed.In order to enter durational information into thelexicon, the time-measurement units need to be identi-fied, from moment, minute, and five minutes to year anddecade.
Then, for many, perhaps most, h-types, theirtime scales can be characterized by a sequence of suchunits, e.g., visit-1 \[minutes, hours\] "visit somebody" (asopposed to visit-2 \[days\] "visit with somebody").
Twoh-types stand in the much-greater-than relation to eachother if their time scales do not overlap.Aspectually, each h-type should be assigned to aclass according to the classification developed in Sec-tion 4.
Regular aspectual polysemies hould be notedand their extent investigated.
It would be helpful toknow, for example, how many, and what kind of,process verbs can describe the instantaneous beginningof the process as in She ran (i.e., began to run).
For telich-types, as argued in Section 4, there is a limitednumber of ways in which the arguments of the h-typecan be affected by it (create, destroy, move, modify,expend: see Section 4.2).
These ways can be cataloguedand used as labels on the appropriate slots of lexicalrepresentations.
Qualitative dependencies between ar-guments can be described using Forbus's (1985) ap-proach.
(Nakhimovsky 1987a has examples.)
A lexiconso outfitted can be used in a constraint propagationprogram, similar to the Allen and Kautz 1985 experi-ment, in a manner described in Section 4.6.With respect o narratives, two investigations are inorder, one concerning micromoves within a DS, theother concerning macromoves and DS boundaries.
Theaim of the former investigation would be to identify themost frequent emporal/causal patterns of micromovesand how they are signaled by tense and aspect.
Theaims of the latter investigation would be, first, toidentify the types of discontinuities that cause the shiftto a new DS; second, identify typical combinations ofsuch discontinuities and how they correspond to rhetor-ical notions and the narrator's intentions; and finally,develop heuristics for the proper segmentation of nar-ratives.
At this stage, work outlined here is likely toconnect with some of the pursuits of structuralist andpoststructuralist poetics.REFERENCESAllen, James 1984 Towards a General Theory of Action and Time.Artificial Intelligence 23(2): 123-54.Alien, James and Kautz, H.A.
1985 A Model of Naive TemporalReasoning.
In Hobbs and Moore 1985.Apresjan, Juri 1974 Lexical Semantics.
(In Russian) Nauka, Moscow.Almeida, Michael J.
1987 Reasoning About he Temporal Structure ofNarratives.
Ph.D. diss.
and TR 87-10.
Computer Science Depart-ment, SUNY at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY.Bach, Emmon 1986 The Algebra of Events.
Linguistics and Philoso-phy 9: 5-16.Bobrow, Daniel, (ed.)
1985 Qualitative Reasoning about PhysicalSystems.
M1T Press, Cambridge, MA.Bruce, Bertram 1981 A social interaction model of reading.
DiscourseProcesses 4:273-311.Bruder, G.A.
et al 1986 Deictic Centers in Narrative: An Interdisci-plinary Cognitive-science Project.
TR 86-20.
Computer ScienceDepartment, SUNY at Buffalo, Buffalo, NY.Bunt, H. 1985 The Formal Representation f (quasi) ContinuousConcepts.
In Hobbs and Moore 1985.Campbell, Jeremy 1986 Winston Churchill's Afternoon Nap.
Simonand Schuster, New York, NY.Comrie, B.
1976 Aspect.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,England.Cooper, Robin 1986 Tense and Discourse Location in SituationSemantics.
In Dowty 1986a: 17-36.Creary, L.; and Pollard, Carl 1985 A Computational Semantics forNatural Language.
Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Conference ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, Chicago, IL;172-9.Dahl, O.
1985 Tense and Aspect Systems.
Basil Blackwell, Oxford,England.Dowty, David 1986 The Effects of Aspectual Class on the TemporalStructure of Discourse.
In Dowty 1986a: 37-61.Dowty, David, (ed.)
1986a Tense and Aspect in Discourse.
Linguisticsand Philosophy 9(1) (special issue).Dowty, David 1987 Aspect and NP semantics.
Logic and LinguisticsConference.
Stanford, CA.Dowty, David 1977 Toward a Semantic Analysis of Verb Aspect andthe English "imperfective" Progressive.
Linguistics and Philoso-phy 1: 45-77.Forbus, K.D.
1985 Qualitative Process Theory.
In Bobrow 1985.Fraisse, Paul 1984 Psychology ofTime Perception.
Annual Review ofPsychology 1-34.Genette, G. 1980 Narrative Discourse.
Cornell University Press,Ithaca, NY.Grosz, Barbara; and Sidner, Candace 1986 Attention, Intentions, andthe Structure of Discourse.
Computational Linguistics 12(3): 175-204.Hayes, P. 1985 The Second Naive Physics Manifesto.
In Hobbs andMoore 1985.Hayes, P. 1985a Naive Physics I; Ontology for Liquids.
In Hobbs andMoore 1985.Heim, Irene 1982 The Semantics of Definite and Indefinite NounPhrases.
PhD diss.
University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA.Hinrichs, Erhard 1986 Temporal Anaphora in Discourses of English.In Dowty 1986a: 63-82.Hirst, G. 1987 Semantic Interpretation and the Resolution of Ambi-guity.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England.Hobbs, J.R. 1982 Towards an Understanding of Coherence in Dis-course.
In Lehnert and Ringle (eds.).
Natural Language Process-ing.
Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, NJ.Hobbs, J.R. 1985a Granularity IJCAI 85: 432-5.Hobbs, J.R. and R. C. Moore (eds.)
1985 Formal Theories of theCommonsense World.
Ablex Publishing Corporation, Norwood,NJHobbs, J.R. et al 1985 Commonsense Summer: Final Report (no.CSL1-85-35) CSLI, Stanford, CA.Hobbs, J.R. et al 1986 Commonsense Metaphysics and LexicalSemantics.
Proceedings of the 25th Annual Conference of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, Stanford, CA; 231--40.42 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Alexander Nakhimovsky Aspect, Aspectual Class, and the Temporal Structure of NarrativeHorn, Larry 1984 Toward a New Taxonomy for Pragmatic Inference.In D. Schiffrin (ed.)
Meaning, Form and Use in Context: Linguis-tic Application.
Georgetown University Press, Washington, DC.Joyce, James 1969 \[1914\] "Clay."
In Dubliners.
Modern Library,New York, NY; 99-106.Kamp, Hans 1981 A Theory of Truth and Semantic Representation.
IJ.A.G.
Groenendijk, et al (eds.
), Formal Methods in the Study ofLanguage.
Amsterdam.Kamp, Hans and Christian Roerer 1983 Tense in Texts.
In R. Bauerle,C.
Schwarze, Arnim von Stechow (eds.).
Meaning, Use andInterpretation i  Language.
Walter de Gruyter, Berlin, Germany.Lehnert, Wendy 1982 Plot Units: A Narrative Summarization Strat-egy.
In W. Lehnert and M. Ringle (eds.).
Strategies for NaturalLanguage Processing.
Erlbaum, Hillsdale, NJ.Link, G. 1983 The Logical Analysis of Plurals and Mass Terms: ALattice-theoretical Approach.
In R. Bauerle et al (ed.
), Meaning,Use and the Interpretation of Language.
Walter de Gruyter,Berlin and New York.McDermott, Drew 1982 A Temporal Logic for Reasoning aboutProcesses and Plans.
Cognitive Science 6: 101-155.Moens, M.; and Steedman, M. 1987 Temporal Ontology in NaturalLanguage.
In Proceedings of the 26th Annual Conference of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, Buffalo, NY; 1-7.Mourelatos, A.P.D.
1981 Events, Processes, and States.
In Tedeschiand Zaenen.Nakhimovsky, A.
1983 Meaning-Text Linguistics and the Problem ofVoice.
Linguistic Research Inc., Edmonton, Alberta.Nakhimovsky, A.
1986 The Lexicon and Commonsense Reasoning: ACase Study.
Proceedings of the Conference on Advances inLexicology.
University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario.Nakhimovsky, A.
1987a The Lexicon, Grammatical Categories, andTemporal Reasoning.
In J. Hallam and C. Mellish (eds.
), Advancesin Artificial Intelligence, John Wiley, Chichester, England.Nakhimovsky, A.
1987b Temporal Reasoning in Natural-LanguageUnderstanding: The Temporal Structure of the Narrative.
EACL-87.
Copenhagen.Nakhimovsky, A. and Rapaport, W. In preparation.
Discontinuities innarratives.Nirenburg, Sergei; Raskin, Victor; and Tucker, Allen 1985 InterlinguaDesign for TRANSLATOR.
Proceedings of the Colgate Confer-ence on Machine Translation.
Hamilton, NY.Passonneau, Rebecca.
1987 Situations and Intervals.
In Proceedingsof the 26th Annual Conference of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, Buffalo, NY; 8--15.Rapaport, William J.
1986 Logical Foundations for Belief Represen-tation.
Cognitive Science 4: 371-422.Reichman, R. 1985 Getting Computers to Talk Like You and Me.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Schank, R.
(ed.)
1975 Conceptual Information Processing.
North-Holland, Amsterdam.Sidner, Candace 1983 Focusing in the Comprehension of DefiniteAnaphora.
In M. Brady and R. Berwick (eds.
), ComputationalModels of Discourse.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Talmy, Leonard 1983 How Language Structures Space.
BerkeleyCognitive Science, Report no.
4, Berkeley, CA.Tedeschi, P.; and Zaenen, Anne (eds.)
1981 Tense and Aspect(Syntax and Semantics 14), Academic Press, New York, NY.ter Meulen, Alice 1987 Structured Domains for Events.
Workshop onGenerics and Mass Terms.
Stanford, CA.Tompkins, Jane 1981 Reader Response Criticism.
Johns HopkinsUniversity Press, Baltimore, MD.Vendler, Z.
1967 Verbs and Times.
In Linguistics and Philosophy.Cornell University Press, Ithaca, NY.Verkuyl, Henk 1972 On the Compositional Nature of Aspect.
Reidel,Dordrecht.Webber, Bonnie 1979 A Formal Approach to Discourse Anaphora.Garland, New York, NY.Webber, Bonnie 1987a Two Steps Closer to Event Reference.
TRMS-CIS-86-74, Department of Computer and Information Science,University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.Webber, Bonnie 1987b The Interpretation of Tense in Discourse.
InProceedings of the 26th Annual Conference of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Buffalo, NY; 147-154.Wierzbicka, Anna 1985 Lexicography and Conceptual Analysis'.
Ka-roma, Ann Arbor, MI.Worline, Bonnie Bess 1956 The Children Who Stayed Alone.
Scho-lastic Book Services, New York, NY.NOTES1.
I am grateful to Rebecca Passonneau for detailed comments on anearlier version, and to Bonnie Webber for many discussions andpainstaking editorial work.
Conversations with Wayles Browne,Donka Farkas, Tom Myers and Mark Steedman have been helpfulin clarifying my views (which is not to claim that clarity has beenachieved).
Patricia Ryan of Colgate has made it possible for meand the deadline to meet.
Work on the paper was mostly doneduring a study leave granted by Colgate.2.
It was pointed out to me (cf.
also Comrie 1976) that moderntechnology, and in particular slow motion movies, can spread outinstantaneous events so that one can imagine somebody sayingLook, he's blinking!
or He's beginning to blink!
in reference to aprotracted individual blink on the screen.
I don't think thisabolishes the durational basis for the notion of instantaneousevents: they're still treated differently than noninstantaneousones, and the above sentences refer to an event on the screen, nota real-life blink.
We wouldn't want to say that just because we canproduce a hugh image of a mosquito we no longer think of it assomething small, or that the phrase No larger than a mosquito canno longer be used.3.
See Bach 1986, ter Meulen 1987.
Dowty 1987 reports an idea ofHinrichs' that "'with respect to their Theme arguments, themeanings of telic predicates are homomorphisms from the algebraof entities (NP denotations) \[as suggested in, e.g., Link 1983--AN\] into the algebra of events (as conceived by Bach)."4.
Dahl (1981) confuses the issue by defining perfectivity only fortelic histories (p. 82), in terms of reaching or not reaching theirterminal point.
Not surprisingly, he finds it difficult to keep thetwo categories apart.5.
Clearly, both narrative and exposition can be embedded in aconversation: the modality (spoken or written) does not deter-mine the genre uniquely.
I am talking about clear-cut cases.6.
One such investigation is already under way as part of a largerinterdisciplinary study of the Deictic Center in Narratives (Bruderet al, 1986).
Some of the foregoing material has been influencedby that project and overlaps with Nakhimovsky and Rapaport (inpreparation).7.
Discussing examples like these, Cooper 1986:34 says that thiskind of move is impossible with progressives.
I don't think this isthe case; once the dynamics of the move is understood, anappropriate xample is easy to construct, e.g.
: A heavy volumeslipped off the top shelf and landed on Bob's right toe.
He washopping on the unaffected foot, holding the hurt one in bothhands.Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 43
