A COMPUTATIONAL MODEL OF THE SEMANTICS OF TENSE AND ASPECTRebecca J. PassonneauPaoli Research Center,  Defense Sysltems, UNISYS ~The PUNDIT natural-language system processes references to situations and the intervals over whichthey hold using an algorithm that integrates the analysis of tense and aspect.
For each tensed clause,PUNDIT processes the main verb and its grammatical categories of tense, perfect, and progressive inorder to extract three complementary pieces of temporal information.
The first is whether a situation hasactual time associated with it.
Secondly, for each situation that is presumed to take place in actual time,PUNDIT represents its temporal structure as one of three situation types: a state, process, or transitionevent.
The temporal structures of each of these situation types consist of one or more intervals.
Theintervals are characterized by two features: kinesis, which pertains to their internal structure, andboundedness, which constrains the manner in which they get located in time.
Thirdly, the computationof temporal location exploits the three temporal indices proposed in Reichenbach 1947: event  time, speechtime, and reference time.
Here, however, event time is formulated as a single component of the fulltemporal structure of a situation in order to provide an integrated treatment of tense and aspect.1 INTRODUCTIONThe PUNDIT text-processing system extracts temporalinformation about real-world situations from short mes-sage texts.
2 This involves three complementary analy-ses.
First, PUNDIT determines whether a situation hasactual time associated with it.
A reference to a possibleor potential situation, for example, would need a differ-ent treatment.
Second, it determines the temporal struc-ture of the predicated situation, or the manner in whichit evolves through time.
Finally, it analyzes the tempo-ral location of the actual situations with respect o thetime of text production or to the times of other situa-tions.
These three pieces of information are derivedfrom the lexical head of a predication (verbal, adjecti-val, or nominal), its grammatical inflections (tense,progressive, perfect), and finally, temporal adverbssuch as before, after, and when.
Each of these compo-nents of temporal meaning is assigned a context-depen-dent compositional semantics.
A fundamental premiseof this approach is that the several sentence lementscontributing temporal information can and should beanalyzed in tandem (Mourelatos 1981, Dowty 1986) inorder to determine the times for which predications areasserted to hold.
This is accomplished by means of amodel of the semantics of time that incorporates bothaspect and a Reichenbachian treatment of tense (Rei-chenbach 1947).The temporal analysis component described herewas originally designed to handle PUNDIT 's  first textdomain, CASREP messages, which are reports describ-ing equipment failures on navy ships.
3 This domain wasa particularly appropriate one for implementing a com-ponent to analyze the time information contained ex-plicitly within the individual sentences of a text.
CAS-REPs are diagnostic reports consisting of simpledeclarative sentences.
They present a cumulative de-scription of the current status of a particular piece ofequipment rather than narrating a sequence of events.Within one sentence, several different situations may bementioned, linked together by explicit emporal connec-tives such as before and after.
It is thus possible toextract a good deal of the important emporal informa-tion from these texts without handling intersententialtemporal relations.
However,  the implementation f thetemporal semantic omponent described here lays thenecessary groundwork for eventually computing inter-sentential relations along lines proposed in Webber 1987and this volume.
4The capacity to process intersenten-tial temporal relations is, of course, essential for ade-quately handling narrative data.2 TEMPORAL INFORMATIONThe premise of the present work is that accurate com-putation of the temporal semantics of the verb and itsgrammatical categories of tense, perfect, and progres-sive provide a foundation for computing other kinds ofCopyright 1988 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material isgranted providedthat the copies are not made for direct commercial dvantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
Tocopy otherwise, or to republish, requires afee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/88/010044-60503.0044 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and Aspecttemporal information, including the interpretion of tem-poral adverbials,  However, the task of modeling thesemantic ontribution of the verb and its categories i acomplex one because temporal information is distrib-uted across several nonunivocal lexical and grammati-cal elements.
As the extensive linguistic and philosoph-ical literature on tense and aspect demonstrates, theprecise temporal contribution of any one surface cate-gory of the verb is contingent upon co-occurring verbalcategories, as well as upon the inherent meaning of theverb, and even the nature of the verb's arguments(Comrie 1976, Dowty 1979, Mourelatos 1981, Vlach1981, Vendler 1967).
Hence, even a preliminary solutionto the computational problems of interpreting temporalinformation i natural language requires recognizing therelevant semantic interdependencies.
This paper pro-poses a solution to the computational task of extractingtemporal information from simple declarative sentencesbased on separating temporal analysis into distincttasks, each of which has access to a selected portion ofthe temporal input.
The ultimate goal is to representtemporal information as explicitly as possible at eachstage of analysis in order to provide the appropriateinformation for the next stage.
Because the representa-tions are constructed incrementally, it is important thatthey should be explicit about what has been derived sofar, yet sufficiently noncommittal to avoid conflictingwith subsequent processing.The present section of the paper provides the back-ground needed for understanding the information thatthe algorithm integrating tense and aspect (presented inSection 4) is designed to compute.
First, in Section 2.1,I explain what is meant by actua l  t ime and delimit thescope of the phenomena focused on here.
Then inSection 2.2, I describe the components of temporalstructure and how they are used to distinguish states,transition events, and two ways of referring to pro-cesses.
Also in this section I review Dowty's (1979)aspect calculus and introduce how it is used in derivingthe representation f temporal structure.The remaining sections of the paper focus on theimplementation.
Section 3 describes the input to thetemporal component.
Section 4 presents the algorithmfor computing the situation representations and theirtemporal location.
Part of the computation of temporallocation involves determining the reference time of apredication.
Reference time pertains to the interpreta-tion of relational temporal adverbials, i.e., adverbialsthat relate the time of a situation to another time (e.g.,The ship was refueled yesterday, cf.
Smith 1981).
6Temporal connectives, for example, relate the time of asyntactically subordinate predication to a superordinateone.
A brief discussion of how the reference timeparticipates in the interpretation f temporal adverbialclauses introduced by connectives such as before, after,and when is given in Section 5, whose more generaltopic is the utility of the situation representations fortheinterpretation f a variety of adverbial types.
72.1 ACTUAL TEMPORAL REFERENCEActual situations are those that are asserted to havealready occurred, or to be occurring at the time when atext is produced.
This excludes, e.g., situations men-tioned in modal, intensional, negated, or frequentativecontexts.
8 A predication denotes an actual situationwhen two criteria are satisfied.
First, at least one of theverb's arguments must be interpreted as specific(Dowty 1979, Mourelatos 1981, Vlach 1981).
For exam-ple, the simple past of fly denotes a specific situation inSentence 1 but not in (2), because the subject of the verbin (2) is a nonspecific indefinite plural.1.
John flew TWA to Boston.2.
Tourists flew TWA to Boston.This paper does not address the interaction of the natureof a verb's arguments with the specificity of referencesto situations.The second criterion is that the situation must beasserted to hold in the real world for some specific time.Predications in modal contexts (including the future; cf.Sentence 3) are excluded because their truth evaluationdoes not involve specific real-world times, but rather,hypothetical or potential times.3.
The oil pressure should/may/will decrease.Additionally, frequency adverbials like always mayforce a temporally nonspecific reading, as in (4).4.
John always flew his own plane to Boston.PUNDIT's time component does not currently identifymodal contexts, frequency adverbials, or nonspecificverb arguments.
However, it does identify predicationsdenoting situation types when the form of the verb itselfprovides this information.In evaluating actual time, PUNDIT distinguishesbetween examples like (5) and (6) on the basis of theverb and its grammatical categories.
An actual use ofthe sentence in (5), for example, would report that aparticular pump participated in a particular event at aspecific time.5.
The lube oil pump seized.6.
The lube oil pump seizes.7.
The lube oil pump seized whenever the enginejacked over.Sentences 6 and 7, on the other hand, report on types ofrecurrent events.
In sentence 7, it is the adverb when-ever that indicates that the main clause refers to arecurrent type of event rather than to a specific eventtoken situated at a particular time.
In (6), it is the lexicalaspect of the verb seize in combination with the presenttense that provides that information.
A further differ-ence between the two examples i that (7) entails that onat least one past occasion the pump actually seizedwhen the engine jacked over, while (6) does not entailthat the lube oil pump ever actually seized.
We will seein Section 4.1 that (6) would immediately be determinednot to evoke actual time on the basis of the lexicalaspect of the verb and its inflectional form.
AlthoughPUNDIT does not yet handle frequency adverbials,Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 45Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and AspectSection 5 illustrates the procedure by which the mainclause of (7) would be processed so that its relation tothe subordinate clause event could be identified later.Lexical aspect is the inherent semantic ontent of alexical item pertaining to the temporal structure of thesituation it refers to, and thus plays a major role incomputing temporal information.
The aspectual catego-ries and their relevance to temporal processing arediscussed in Section 2.2.It should be noted that other semantic and pragmaticproperties also affect temporal analysis.
For example,there are conditions under which the present tense of averb referring to an event, as in (6), is associated with anactual situation.
Under the right conditions, first-personperformatives (e.g., I warn you not to cross me) accom-plish the named event at the moment hey are uttered(Austin 1977).
Even a sentence like (6) can refer to anactual event if interpreted as a report of a presentlyunfolding situation, as in a sportscast.
Handling tense inthese types of discourse would require representingpragmatic features, such as the speaker/addressee r la-tionship, in order to handle the relation of indexicalslike tense and person to the speech situation (Jakobson1957).
Section 3 briefly mentions ome semantic distinc-tions pertaining to the verb in addition to lexical aspect,which PUNDIT does handle.
Otherwise, however, thispaper focuses on temporal analysis of third persondescriptions containing verbs whose arguments refer tospecific, concrete participants.2.2 TEMPORAL STRUCTURE OF ACTUAL SITUATIONSSituations are classified on the basis of their temporalstructure into three types: states, processes, and tran-sition events.
Each situation type has a distinct empo-ral structure comprised of one or more intervals.
Twofeatures are associated with each interval: kinesis andboundedness.
Both terms will be defined more fullybelow, but briefly, kinesis pertains to the internal struc-ture of an interval, or in informal terms, whethersomething is happening within the interval.
Bounded-ness pertains to the way in which an interval is locatedin time with respect to other intervals, e.g., whether it isbounded by another interval.This approach to the compositional semantics oftemporal reference is similar in spirit to interval seman-tics in the attempt to account for the semantic effects ofaspectual class (Dowty 1986, Dowty 1982, Dowty 1979,Taylor 1977).
However, interval semantics captures thedistinct emporal properties of situations by specifying atruth-conditional relation between a full sentence and aunique interval.
The goal of PUNDIT's temporal anal-ysis is not simply to sort references to situations intostates, processes, and events, but more specifically torepresent the differences between the three situationtypes by considering in detail the characteristics o f  theset of  temporal intervals that they hold or occur over(Allen 1984:132).
Thus, instead of specifying a single setof entailments for each of the three situation types, thetemporal semantics outlined here specifies what prop-erty of an interval is entailed by what portion of theinput sentence, and then compositionally constructs adetailed representation of a state, ' process, or eventfrom the intervals and their associated features.
Thecritical difference from interval semantics i that whileintervals are the fundamental unit from which situationrepresentations are constructed, it is proposed here thatintervals have properties that differentiate them fromone another.2.2.1 SITUATION TYPES AND TEMPORAL STRUCTUREThe three situation types--states, processes, and tran-sition events--are distinguished from one another en-tirely on the basis of the grammatically encoded meansprovided by the language for talking about how andwhen they occur.
Peopl e certainly can and do concep-tualize finer differences among real-world situations andcan even describe these differences, given sufficienttime or space.
But certain gross distinctions are un-avoidably made whenever people mention things hap-pening in the world.
Here and in the next section we willexamine the temporal distinctions encoded in the formof the verb, often referred to as aspect, which are herereferred to as temporal structure.
Part of the temporalstructure, that which Talmy (1985) described as thepattern of distribution of action through time, is repre-sented in the time arguments for the three situationtypes.
Another part of the temporal structure, its eventtime, is the component of temporal structure that getslocated in time by tense and the perfect.
All the relevantdistinctions of temporal structure are represented interms of intervals and moments of time.States.
Very briefly, a state is a situation that holdsover some interval of time, which is both stative andunbounded.
A stative interval is one in which, withrespect o the relevant predication, there is no changeacross the interval for which the situation holds.
Thusstative intervals are defined here much as stative pred-ications are defined in interval semantics:An interval I over which some predication q/ holds isstative iff  it fol lows f rom the truth o f  4, over I that q/is true at all subintervals o f  I (Dowty 1986:42).Sentence 8 is an example of a typical stative predicationwhose verb phrase is headed by an adjective.
During theinterval for which the predicate low holds over theentity pressure, each subinterval is equivalent to anyother subinterval with respect to the asserted situation;thus its kinesis is stative.8.
The pressure is low.Some of the diagnostic tests for stative predications arethat they cannot be modified by rate adverbials (*Thepressure was quickly low), nor referenced with do itanaphora (The pressure was very low.
*The temperaturealso did it~that.)
While inability to occur with theprogressive suffix has often been cited as anotherdiagnostic, it is a less reliable one.
Dowty 1979 identifiesa class of locative stative predications that occur in the46 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and Aspectprogressive (e.g., The socks are lying under the bed.
)Predicates denoting cognition or behavior have oftenbeen classified as statives but may occur in the progres-sive with reference to a cognitive or behavioralprocess.
9 Although such verbs do not appear in thecurrent domain, they would be treated ifferently frompure stative verbs.The intervals associated with states are also inher-ently unbounded, although a temporal bound could beprovided by an appropriate temporal adverbial (e.g.,The pressure was normal until the pump seized).
~?When an unbounded interval is located with respect oanother point in time, it is assumed to extend indefi-nitely in both directions around that time, as with thepunctual adverbial in (9).
The moment within the inter-val that is explicitly located by tense and the punctualadverbial is the situation's event time, depicted as acircle in the middle of the interval, with arrows repre-senting that the interval extends indefinitely into thepast and toward the present.9.
The pressure was low at 0800.Situation type: stateKinesis: stativeBoundedness: unboundedThis sentence would be true if the pressure were low foronly an instant coincident with 0800, but it is notasserted to hold only for that instant; one thus assumesthat it was low not only at the named time, but also priorand subsequent to it.
In this sense, the interval isunbounded, as represented graphically above.Processes.
A process is a situation which holds overan active interval of time.
Active intervals contrast withstative intervals in that there is change within theinterval, a useful distinction for interpreting manneradverbials indicating rate of change, e.g., slowly andrapidly.
Since states denote the absence of change overtime, they cannot be modified by rate adverbials; pro-cesses can be.The definition of active intervals is also adapted fromthe characterization f process predications in intervalsemantics:An interval I over which some predication qJ holds isactive iff it follows from the truth of  ~b at I that ~b istrue over all subintervals of  I down to a certain limitin size (Dowty 1986:42).Active intervals can be unbounded or unspecified forboundedness, depending on whether the verb is pro-gressive.
In (10), the active interval associated with thealarm sounding is unbounded and bears the same rela-tionship to the named clock time as does the stativeinterval in (9) above.10.
The alarm was sounding at 0800.< OSituation type: processKinesis: activeBoundedness: unboundedProgressive aspect has often been compared to lexicalstativity.l~ Here the commonality among sentences like(9) and (10) is captured by associating the feature ofunboundedness both with stative lexical items and withprogressive aspect.
The temporal structures of statesand unbounded processes are thus identical with re-spect to boundedness.
However, the distinction be-tween the kinesis of (9) and (10) is retained by distin-guishing active from stative intervals.In (11) the interval associated with the alarm sound-ing is unspecified for boundedness, meaning that theclock time may occur within the interval for which thealarm sounded, or at its onset or termination.11.
The alarm sounded at 0800.Situation type: processKinesis: activeBoundedness: unspecifiedIn (10), where the verb is progressive, the clock time isinterpreted as falling within the unbounded interval ofsounding, but in (11), where the verb is not progressive,the clock time can be interpreted as falling at theinception of the process or as roughly locating the entireprocess.
~2 Nonprogressive forms of process verbs ex-hibit a wide variation in the interpretation f what partof the temporal structure is located by tense.
Theinfluencing factors seem to be pragmatic in nature,rather than semantic.
The solution taken here is tocharacterize the event time of such predications ashaving an unspecified relation to the active intervalassociated with the denoted process, represented graph-ically above by the dashed line around the event time.Transition Events.
A transition event is a complexsituation consisting of a process which culminates in anew state or process.
The new state or process comesinto being as a result of the initial process.
Since stateshave no kinesis, they cannot culminate in new situa-tions.
The temporal structure of a transition event isthus an active interval followed by--and bounded by- -a new active or stative interval.~3That there are these three distinct components oftransition events can be illustrated by the followingsentences in which the time adverbials modify one ofthe three temporally distinct parts of the predicatedevent.12.
It took 5 minutes for the pump to seize.13.
The pump seized precisely at 14:04:01.14.
The pump was seized for 2 hours.
14The duration 5 minutes in (12) above applies to theinterval of time during which the pump was in theprocess of seizing.
The clock time in (13) corresponds tothe moment when the pump is said to have made atransition to the new state of being seized.
Finally, themeasure phrase in (14) corresponds to the intervalassociated with the new state.Following Dowty 1986, Vendler's (1967) two classesof achievements and accomplishments are collapsedhere into the single class of transition events, and forComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 47Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and Aspectmuch the same reasons.
That is, achievements differfrom accomplishments in being typically of shorterduration and in not entailing a sequence of subevents,but they nevertheless do in fact have some duration(Dowty 1986:43).
Even so-called punctual events (e.g.,They arrived at the station; She recognized her long-lostfriend) can be talked about as if they had duration(Talmy 1985, Jackendoff 1987), apparently dependingon the granularity of time involved.
It is my belief thathandling ranularity depends on appropriate interactionwith a relatively rich model of the world and of thecurrent discourse, but would not require new units oftime; depending on the level of detail required, mo-ments could be exploded into intervals, or intervalscollapsed into moments.
For these reasons, punctualevents are not treated here as a separate class.With verbs in Vendler's class of achievements, thesame participant generally participates inboth the initialprocess and the resulting situation, as in (15):15.
The engine failed at 0800.>Situation type: transition eventKinesis: activeBoundedness: boundedHere, the engine participates in some process (failing),which culminates in a new state (e.g., being inopera-tive).
In each case, however, there are two temporallydistinct intervals, as shown in the diagram above, onebounded by the other.Causative verbs typically denote accomplishmentsinvolving subevents in which the action of one partici-pant results in a change in another participant, as in(16):16.
The pump sheared the drive shaft.Here, a process in which the pump participated(shearing) is asserted to have caused a change in thedrive shaft (being sheared).
The consequence of thedifferent argument structures of (15) and (16) on theevent representation is discussed in the next section.The boundary between the two intervals associatedwith a transition event, the transition bound, is definedas a transitional moment between the initial activeinterval and the ensuing active or stative interval asso-ciated with the new situation.
An important role playedby the transition bound is that it is the temporal com-ponent of transition events that locates them withrespect o other times.
For example, (15) asserts thatthe moment of transition to the new situation coincideswith 0800.
In contrast with examples 9-11, the status ofthe engine prior to 0800 is asserted to be different fromits status at 0800 and afterwards.
The components oftemporal structureJproposed here are intended to pro-vide a basis for deriving what is said about the relativeordering of situations and their durations, rather than tocorrespond to physical reality.
Thus a transition boundis a convenient abstraction for representing how transi-tion events are perceived and talked about.
Since atransition event is one which results in a new situation,there is in theory a point in time before which the newsituation does not exist and subsequent to which thenew situation does exist.
This point, however, is atheoretical construct not intended to correspond to anempirically determined time.
It corresponds exactly tothe kind of boundary between intervals involved inAllen's (1983, 1984) meets relation.2.2.2 DOWTY'S ASPECT CALCULUSThe intervals for which situations hold are closelylinked with the semantic decompositions of the lexicalitems used in referring to them.
This allows PUNDIT torepresent precisely what kinds of situations entitiesparticipate in and when.
The decompositions includenot only N-ary relational predicates among the verb'sarguments (Passonneau 1986), but also the aspectualoperators for processes and events proposed in Dowty1979.
The main clauses for examples 9, 10, 15, and 16are given below as examples 17-20.17.
The pressure was low.Decomposition: low(patient(\[pressure 1 \]))18.
The alarm was sounding.Decomposition: do(sound(actor(\[alarm 1 \])))19.
The engine failed.Decomposition:become(inoperative(patient(\[engine 1 \]))20.
The pump sheared the drive shaft.Decomposition:cause(agent(\[pump 1 \]),become(sheared(patient(\[shaftl\]))))In (17), the semantic predicate low is associated with thepredication be low, and is predicated over the entityreferred to by the subject noun phrase, the pressure.
15The time component recognizes this structure as astative predication because it contains no aspectualoperators.The decomposition for (18) consists of a basic seman-tic predicate, sound, its single argument, and the aspect-ual operator do, indicating that its argument is in theclass of process predicates; the actor role designates theactive participant.The decompositions of transition-event verbs containthe aspectual operator become, whose argument is apredicate indicating the type of situation resulting fromthe event.
With inceptive verbs, as in (19), the actor ofthe initial process is also the patient or theme of theresulting situation, although this dual role is not repre-sented explicitly in the decomposition.
If a distinct actorcauses the new situation, the verb falls into the class ofcausatives and the actor of the initial process is conven-tionally called an agent, as in (20).
Other decompositionalanalyses (Dowty 1979, Foley 1984) conventionally rep-resent he initial process of transition-event verbs byassociating an activity predicate (e.g., do) with the actoror agent of the initial process (e.g., cause(do(agent()),48 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and Aspectbecome(inoperative(patient())))).
The decompositionsin (19) and (20) can be considered abbreviated versionsof these more explicit predicate/argument structures.The become operator of transition-event verbs thusprovides a crucial piece of information used whenderiving representations of transition events.
Given areference to a specific transition event hat has alreadytaken place, the temporal component deduces the ex-istence of the new situation that has come into being bylooking at the predicate mbedded beneath the becomeoperator.
This is described more fully in Section 4.2.3.As will be shown in Section 4, PUNDIT representsactual situations as predicates identifying the situationtype as a state, process, or event.
In order to familiarizethe reader with the representation schema withoutneedless repetition of detail, a single example of asituation representation is given below for (17).17.
The pressure was low.state(\[lowl\],low(patient(\[pressurel\])),period(\[lowl\]))Each situation representation has three arguments: aunique identifier of the situation, its semantic decom-position, and its time argument, in this case, the interval(or period) over which the predicate holds.
The samepointer (e.g., \[lowl\]) is used to identify both a specificsituation and its time argument because the actual timefor which a situation holds is what uniquely identifies it.The participants in a situation help distinguish it fromother similar situations, but while the same entities canparticipate in other situations, time never recurs.Having introduced the distinct situation types andthe temporal structures that distinguish them, the nextsteps are to show how they are computed and how theypermit a simple computation of temporal location.
Thiswill be done in Section 4.
Since the preceding discus-sions also introduced the representation f lexical as-pect and the relevance of the verbal categories, it is nowpossible to clearly summarize the input which thetemporal analysis component receives.3 INPUT TO THE TEMPORAL COMPONENTPUNDIT's time component performs its analysis afterthe sentence has been parsed and recursively after thesemantic decomposition f each predicating element inthe sentence has been created (Palmer 1986).
Althoughthis paper focuses on the temporal analysis of certainkinds of tensed verbs, the basic algorithm describedhere has been extended to handle other cases as well.Describing the full input to the temporal componentprovides an opportunity to mention some of them.The input to the time component for each tensedclause includes not only the surface verb and its tenseand aspect markings, but also the decomposition pro-duced by analyzing the verb and its arguments (cf.Section 2.2.2.).
The input to the time component is thusa list of the following form:\[\[Tense, Perfect, Progressive\],Verb, Decomposition, {Context}\]Each element of the list will be described in turn.3.1 VERBAL CATEGORIESThe first element in the input list is itself a list indicatingthe form of the verb, i.e., its grammatical inflection.\[\[Tense, Perfect, Progressive\],Verb, Decomposition, {Context}\]The tense parameter is either past or present.16 If theverb is in the progressive or perfect, the correspondingparameter appears while absence of either in the inputsentence is reflected in its absence from the list.3.2 THREE ORDERS OF VERBSThe next two elements in the input to the time compo-nent are the surface verb and its decomposition.
Lexicalaspect is encoded in the decomposition asdescribed inSection 2.2.2 for the cases where it is relevant.
How-ever, it is a more fundamental classification pertainingto the verb which helps determine the cases whereaspect is relevant.\[\[Tense, Perfect, Progressive\],Verb, Decomposition, {Context}\]Since this information is only for treating more complexcases than are described in this paper, the followingdiscussion is intended only to indicate that the modelhas been extended to cover verbs whose semanticstructure contains temporal information of a differentorder than the inherent temporal structure of an actualsituation.
After a brief description of three temporalorders of verbs, the discussion will return to explicationof the input required for implementing the basic model.In addition to the aspectual distinction among state,process, and transition-event verbs, there are otherdistinctions related to temporal semantics.
A particu-larly significant one is among what I call first-, second-,and third-order verbs, by analogy with the distinctionamong first-, second-, and third-order logics.
A first-order verb is one whose arguments are concrete nti-ties, e.g., humans, machines, and other physical ob-jects.
A second-order verb takes as its arguments states,processes, and events, but does not in and of itself referto a situation.
Rather, its semantic ontent is primarilytemporal or aspectual (e.g., occur, follow).
Third-orderverbs refer to complex situations (e.g., result, cause)whose participants are themselves ituations.
Theaspectual distinctions among verbs referring to states,processes, and transition events are only relevant ofirst-order verbs.Second-order verbs can be identified by the impos-sibility of temporal modification of a situation referredto by the verb, independent of the situation(s) referredto by the verb's argument(s) (Newmeyer 1975), as canComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 49Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and AspectOrder Examples DefinitionFirst "fail", "operate" verbs that denote situations andwhose arguments are not propositional'Second "occur", "follow" verbs that provide temporalinformation about their propositional rgumentsThird "result", "cause" verbs that denote situations but which also providetemporal information about their propositional rgumentsTable 1.
Three orders of verbs.be seen(24).21.22.23.24.by contrasting examples 21 and 22 with (23) andThe failure occurred on Tuesday.The failure was discovered on Tuesday.
*The failure that happened on Monday occurredon Tuesday.The failure that happened on Monday was dis-covered on Tuesday.Example 22 mentions two distinct situations, a discov-ery and a failure.
In (21), however, the subject of thesentence, the failure, denotes an event, but the verboccur does not denote a separate situation.
It providestense and aspect information for interpreting its argu-ment.
In other words, the temporal information i (21) isvery similar to that contained in (25):25.
Something failed on Tuesday.A pragmatic difference between the two sentences ithat in (21) it is not necessary to mention what failedwhereas in (25), the verb fail must have a subject.
Otherverbs in this class are foUow, precede, continue, happen,and so on.
Because these verbs contribute primarilytemporal information, they are conventionally referredto as aspectual verbs (Freed 1979, Lamiroy 1987, New-meyer 1975).It is easy to see that the analysis of aspectual verbsmust be implemented somewhat differently from verbslike fail, which directly denote situations.
In a sentencelike (25), the relevant temporal information is containedin the verb and its tense and aspect marking alone.
Incontrast, the temporal information i  (24) pertaining tothe fail event is distributed not only in the verb and itstense and aspect markers, but also in its subject.Temporal analysis of sentences like (24) must be per-formed not only at the main clause level, but also at thelevel of embedded propositions.
In essence, analysis ofaspectual verbs is of a different order.
Consequently,verbs like fail are classified here as first-order verbswhile the so-called aspectual verbs are classified assecond order.PUNDIT's temporal component also handles a thirdclass of verbs, classified as third order.
A third-orderverb denotes a real-world situation, but its argumentsare other situations.
Consequently, the verb may con-tribute temporal information about the arguments aswell as about the situation it denotes.
The verb resultillustrates this type.
Sentence 26 asserts the existence ofa result situation; the result relationship holds betweenan instigating situation mentioned in the noun phraseloss of air pressure, and a resulting situation mentionedin the noun phrase failure.26.
Loss of air pressure resulted in failure.Additionally, the meaning of result includes the tempo-ral information that the instigating situation (the loss)precedes the resulting situation (the failure).
A fulltemporal analysis of sentences like (26) requires twosteps.
The first is to analyze the temporal structure ofthe situation denoted by the verb.
The second is to drawthe correct emporal inferences about the verb's prop-ositional arguments.
Such verbs combine some of theproperties of both first- and second-order verbs andthus constitute a third order of analysis.
Classifying averb as a third-order verb drives the search for temporalinferences associated with its arguments.The classification of these three orders of verbs,summarized inTable 1, is recorded independently of thelexical decompositions used by both the temporal-analysis component and the semantic interpreter.
Atpresent, verb-order information is used only by thetemporal-analysis component.
It essentially selects forthe appropriate flow of control through the temporal-processing procedures.
Although PUNDIT recognizesthe distinction between first-, second-, and third-orderverbs, and processes the relevant temporal informationin each case, the remainder of the paper will deal onlywith the analysis of first-order verbs.3.3 LEXICAL ASPECTThe third element in the input list is the decompositionstructure produced by the semantic analysis of the verband its arguments.\[\[Tense, Perfect, Progressive\],Verb, Decomposit ion, {Context}\]The important aspectual features of the decomposi-tions, discussed in Section 2.2.2, can be summarized asfollows.
If the decomposition of a first-order verbcontains abecome operator, the verb is in the transition-event class; otherwise, if it contains a do operator, theverb is in the process class; else, the verb (or otherpredicate) is stative.50 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and Aspect3.4 DISCOURSE CONTEXTThe final element in the input to the temporal compo-nent is a data structure representing the current dis-course context.\[\[Tense, Perfect, Progressive\], Verb, Decomposition,{Context}\]The first element of this data structure is a list ofunanalyzed syntactic constituents.
At this stage ofprocessing, PUNDIT has produced a full syntacticanalysis of a surface sentence (or sentence fragment),and a semantic decomposition of some predicationwithin the sentence.
After the semantic analysis of aclause, the constituent list contains all those syntacticconstituents that do not serve as arguments of the verb,e.g., adverbial modifiers of the verb phrase and sen-tence adjuncts.
After the analysis of the main clause ofSentence 27, for example, the constituent list wouldcontain two unanalyzed constituents; the prepositionalphrase introduced by during, and the subordinate clauseintroduced by when.27.
The pump failed during engine start, when oilpressure dropped below 60 psig.This list of constituents is processed after the temporalcontent of a predication is analyzed in the search fortemporal adverbials that modify the predication (cf.Section 5 below).
The data structure representing thecurrent discourse context contains temporally relevantinformation, such as the tense and voice of the mainclause.
The main-clause t nse is used for the analysis ofsituations mentioned in embedded tenseless constitu-ents, while voice is used in analyzing adjectival pas-sives.The next section describes an algorithm for interpret-ing the four pieces of information relevant o actualreferences to states, processes, and events.
It demon-strates how the temporal structure and temporal loca-tion are generated from the verb's grammatical catego-ries of tense, perfect, and progressive, and from itslexical aspect.4 ALGORITHM FOR THE TEMPORAL ANALYSIS OFINFLECTED VERBSThe introductory and discussion sections have undoubt-edly reinforced the view that semantic processing oftemporal information is a complicated problem, evenwhen the scope of the problem is constrained to thesimple cases addressed here.
Relevant information isdistributed within and across distinct constituents, andtheir contribution to temporal information can dependupon co-occurring elements.
Yet these are in no wayinsurmountable problems.
The fundamental design prin-ciples behind my approach to temporal processing havebeen to carefully separate the analysis into distinctsubtasks, to pare down to a minimum the informationavailable to each task, and to provide a simple compo-sitional semantics for each kind of temporal input.
Inthis section, I outline the basic algorithm for the tem-poral analysis of inflected verbs.
This algorithm ana-lyzes the four components of the inflected verb de-scribed in the preceding section (lexical aspect,progressive, perfect, tense).
The output that is gener-ated can than serve as input for further temporal proc-essing.
Section 5 illustrates the integration of this basicalgorithm into a more global procedure that succes-sively interprets the main and subordinate clauses ofcomplex sentences where the subordinating conjunctionis a temporal adverbial.The basic algorithm for the temporal analysis ofinflected verbs has a simple tripartite control structuredesigned to answer three distinct questions:1.
Does the predication denote a specific situation withactual time reference?2.
If so, what is the temporal structure of the situation,i.e., how does it evolve through time and how does itget situated in time?3.
Finally, what is the temporal location of the situationwith respect to the time of text production, and whatis the temporal vantage point from which the situa-tion is described?Figure 1 illustrates the algorithm's global control struc-ture, with the modules corresponding to each questionas well as the relevant input for each module.
The firstmodule examines all four temporal parameters de-scribed in Sections 3.1 and 3.5 in order to reject certaincases.
The second module requires only the two param-eters pertaining to the computation of temporal struc-ture.
It sends a component of the temporal structure,the event time, to the third module, which locates theevent time by analyzing the remaining two temporalparameters, tense and perfect.4.1 MODULE 1: ACTUAL TIMEThe first task performed by PUNDIT's temporal com-ponent is to identify references to specific situationtokens; that is, instances of situations which haveactually occurred.
The input is the lexical verb and itsgrammatical categories.
In certain cases, the form of theverb itself can indicate that the predication refers to atype of situation, rather than to a specific token.
Thusthe screening step described here rejects these casesand otherwise assumes that the predication denotes aspecific situation.
As pointed out in Section 2.1, theverb itself provides insufficient information i two kindsof cases: those where explicit disconfirming informationoccurs elsewhere inthe sentence (e.g., arguments oftheverb, modals, frequency adverbials; cf.
examples 2 and7, repeated below):2.
Tourists flew TWA to Boston.7.
The lube oil pump seized whenever the enginejacked over.and those where pragmatic features of the discoursecontext affect he interpretation f semantic input (as ina sportscast).
While Module 1 currently serves only asa filter, it could be made to generate informative outputComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 51Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and AspectASPECT PROGRESSIVE PERFECT4,LACTUALTIMEI IASPECT z PROGRESSIVE2.TEMPORALSTRUCTURETENSEETiPERFECT TENSETEMPORALLOCATIONSTATE (unbounded) ET is RT = STPROCESS (unbounded)ET < RT = ST or(unspecified) ET is RT < STTRANSITIONEVENT (bounded) ET < RT < STFigure 1.
Algorithm for temporal analysis of inflected verb.for subsequent processing of semantically and pragmat-ically more complex phenomena.In Section 2.1 it was shown that two classes ofinflected verbs generally denote situation types, ratherthan actual tokens.
These are process verbs and transi-tion-event verbs in the simple present ense (i.e., non-progressive and nonperfect), as exemplified in (28) and(29).28.
Number 2 air compressor operates at reducedcapacity.
(operate is a process verb.)29.
They replace the air compressor every threeyears.
(replace is a transition event verb.
)For the compound tenses, present ense interacts withthe progressive and perfect verbal categories.
The pro-gressive alters the aspectual properties of nonstativeverbs so that they refer to unbounded situations, andunbounded situations--unlike the other temporal struc-tures-can be located in the actual present (cf.
Section4.2.2).
With the perfect forms, the situation beingreferred to is always located in the past, and tensepertains to the situation's reference time rather than itsevent ime (cf.
Section 4.2.3).
Thus, as shown in Figure1, all four elements in the temporal data structure areinspected in order to identify the two cases exemplifiedin (28) and (29).Table 2 summarizes the relation between the in-flected verb and actual temporal reference.In the current implementation f PUNDIT, predica-tions that meet he first condition do not receive furthertemporal analysis.4.2  MODULE 2: COMPUTE TEMPORAL STRUCTUREModule 2 computes the first type of specific temporalinformation associated with reference to an actual situ-ation.
It generates an explicit representation of thesituation's temporal structure.
This structure includesone or more time arguments associated with the seman-tic predicates in the decomposition, and the situation'sevent ime.
Each situation type--state, process, transi-tion event--receives anappropriate situation label, timeargument(s), and event time.
The temporal structureevoked by an inflected verb can be computed entirelyon the basis of the values of the two aspectual elementsin its input (Lexical Aspect, Progressive), as shown inFigure 1.
The algorithm for Module 2, summarized inTable 3, will be described in the following three sectionscorresponding to the three situation types.Though not shown in the figure or in Table 3, Module2 also receives another input data structure: the seman-tic decomposition.
The decomposition is analyzed ur-ing the processing of transition-event si uations in orderto associate distinct time arguments with distinct se-mantic predicates in the decomposition.
This procedureis explained in the appropriate section below.4.2 .1  STATESAs shown in Table 3, if the lexical aspect of thepredicate is stative (Aspect = stative), then the progres-sive parameter is irrelevant for computing temporalstructure.
Lexical stativity is sufficient o identify theLEXICAL ASPECT PROGRESSIVE PERFECT TENSE ACTIONNonstative no no present rejectacceptTable 2.
Module 1: Actual Time.LEXICAL PROGRESSIVE LABEL TIME EVENTASPECT ARGUMENT TIME (ET)stative Yes/No State unbounded stative interval includes ETprocess or transition event Yes Process unbounded active interval includes ETprocess No Process unspecified active interval has ETtransition event No Event transition bound unifies with ET52Table 3.
Module 2: Temporal Structure.Computat iona l  L inguist ics,  Vo lume 14 ,  Number  2 ,  June  1988Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and Aspectsituation as a state whose time argument is an un-bounded stative interval.Example 30 gives a simple stative sentence, therelevant input to Module 2, and the final situationrepresentation.
Note that (30) illustrates the use of theprogressive with a verb in the locative class of stativesnoted in Dowty 1979, and mentioned in Section 2.2.1.1730.
Metallic particles are clogging the strainer.Lexical Aspect = stativeSituation Representation:state(\[clogl\],clog(instrument(\[materiall\]),theme (\[strainer2\])),period(\[clogl\]))As soon as the lexical aspect is recognized to be stative,Module 2 generates the state label and period timeargument used in creating the representation depictedabove.
A period time argument in the context of a staterepresentation denotes a stative interval.
The situationrepresentation i  (30) indicates that a specific state,clogl, holds over the stative interval, period(\[clogl\]);the decomposition i the representation indicates theparticipants and the relation between them that holdsover this interval.
By definition, this interval also has anevent time associated with it, whose relation to theinterval we can determine by its boundedness feature.Stative intervals are assumed to be unbounded unlessan endpoint is provided by further processing (e.g.,through adverbial modification, inference).
For un-bounded intervals, the event ime is always an arbitrarymoment included within the interval.
This is representedas a binary predicate of the following form, where themoment  time argument is the event ime:Event Time = moment(\[clogl\])such that includes(period(\[clogl\]), moment(\[clogl\]))This predicate and the state representation given aboveexemplify the output of Module 2 for state situations.The event ime generated here is then passed to Module3 in order to determine its temporal location.
We willreturn to this same example in the discussion of tempo-ral location in Section 4.3.4.2.2 PROCESSESThere are three surface forms that denote processsituations: nonprogressive process verbs, progressiveprocess verbs, and progressive transition-event verbs.The nonprogressive and progressive cases have distincttemporal structures, due to differences in the relation ofthe event time to the active interval over which theprocess holds.
Since this is the only difference amongthe three cases, the similarities in temporal structurewill be presented before the event time is discussed.A nonstative predication that either has a processverb or is in the progressive (i.e., the three combina-tions of nonprogressive process, progressive process,and progressive transition-event) evokes a process rep-resentation.
Thus the following three example sen-tences would each be represented with a process labeland a period time argument, representing the activeinterval over which the process holds.
Examples 31 and32 illustrate the two forms of process verbs that evokeprocess situations; since they receive the same repre-sentation, it is shown only once.
Example 33 shows thethird type of reference to a process, with a progressivetransition-event verb.31.
The diesel operated.Lexical Aspect = processProgressive = no32.
The diesel was operating.Lexical Aspect = processProgressive = yes31-32.
Situation Representation:process(\[operate 1 \],do(operate(actor(\[diesel\])))period(\[operate 1 \]))33.
The pump is failing.Lexical Aspect = transition eventProgressive = yesSituation Representation:process(\[faill\],become(inoperative(patient(\[fail 1\]))),period(\[faill\]))The process representation for (33) contains the fulldecomposition for the verb fail with its aspectual oper-ator become.
In this context, the become operator doesnot denote a transition to a new situation, but rather,indicates a process of becoming, which might or mightnot culminate in such a transition.Referring again to Table 3, we note that the activeintervals for both (32) and (33) will be unbounded, incontrast to (31), where the active interval is unspecifiedfor boundedness.
The consequence of this difference onthe representation f the event time is outlined in thefollowing paragraphs.Unbounded processes.
The predicate specifying therelation between the event ime of an unbounded proc-ess and the period over which the process holds isidentical to that for states.
That is, the period timeargument includes an arbitrary moment, which serves asthe situation's event ime, as shown below.32.
The diesel was operating.Event Time = moment(\[operatel\])such that includes(period(\[operatel\]), moment(\[operatel\]))33.
The pump is failing.Event Time = moment(\[faill\])such that includes(period(\[faill\]), moment(\[faill\]))The progressive always implies unboundedness, and inthis respect resembles lexical statives.
Again, it isimportant to remember that an unbounded interval canacquire endpoints through further processing (e.g., oftemporal adverbials, as in The diesel was operating untilthe pump failed.
).Unspecified processes.
For nonprogressive processverbs, the period associated with the predication isunspecified for boundedness (cf.
discussion of ExampleComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 53Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and AspectLEXICAL PROGRESSIVE LABEL  TIME EVENTASPECT ARGUMENT TIME (ET)transition event No Event transition bound unifies with ET(From) Table 3.11 in Section 2.2.1).
This gives rise to an indeterminaterelationship between the event time and the period timeargument over which the process holds; i.e., the eventtime may start, end, or be included within the period.This unspecified relationship is represented by means ofa binary has predicate, as shown in example 31.31.
The diesel operated.Event Time = moment(\[operatel\])such that has(period(\[operatel\]), moment(\[operatel\]))Both event-time predicates given so far (i.e., includes,has) indicate a relation between an arbitrary momentand a single interval over which a state or process holds.There is otherwise nothing distinctive about the mo-ment selected to be the event time of a process or statesituation.
In contrast, as Table 3 indicates, and asdiscussed in Section 2.2.1, the event ime of a transitionevent is equated with a distinctive component of itstemporal structure, viz., the transition bound between aprocess that initiates the event and the new situationreached at the culmination of the process.4.2.3 TRANSITION EVENTSTable 3 shows only one component of the temporalstructure of a transition event (the relevant line of thetable is repeated below).As noted in Section 2.2.1, a transition event has threetemporal components: an initial active interval eadingup to a transition, the moment of transition, and theinterval associated with the new, resulting situation.
Intheory, then, one could represent he full temporalstructure of a transition-event predication (e.g., Thepump failed) as three contiguous tates of affairs: aninitial process (e.g., failing) leading up to a transitionalmoment (e.g., becoming inoperative) followed by a newstate of affairs (e.g., inoperative).
At present, PUNDITexplicitly represents only the latter two components oftransition-event predications: the moment (transitionbound) associated with an event of becoming, and theperiod associated with the resulting situation.
Thisrepresentation has been found to be adequate for thecurrent applications.
Thus transition events are actuallyassigned two situation representations: an event repre-sentation with a moment time argument, representedwith the input decomposition, and a resulting state orprocess situation with a period time argument, forwhich a new decomposition is derived from the inputdecomposition.
Example 34 illustrates a typical transi-tion-event sentence, the relevant input for computingtemporal structure, and the two situation representa-tions.34.
The pump failed.Lexical Aspect = transition eventProgressive = noSituation Representation:event(\[faill\],become(inoperative(patient(\[pump 1\]))),moment(\[faill\])Situation Representation:state(\[fail2\],inoperative(patient(\[pump 1 \])),period(\[fail2\]))The first situation representation corresponds to thetransition event itself.
Module 2 generates the eventlabel and moment ime argument used in creating thetype of event representation shown above for nonpro-gressive transition event verbs.
The moment argumentof a transition event is the transition bound implying theonset of a new situation.
When Module 2 creates anevent with a moment argument, it also creates a repre-sentation for the implied situation.
In Example 34, thenew situation is a state.
When creating the representa-tion for the situation resulting from a transition event, itis necessary to determine the appropriate situationlabel, time argument, and semantic decomposition forthe new situation.
This is where the semantic decom-position for transition events plays a role, as will bedescribed below.All transition-event verbs contain a state or processpredicate mbedded beneath an instance of the aspect-ual operator become.
The full decomposition representsthe type of situation associated with the moment oftransition.
The portion embedded beneath become is thesituation type associated with the new situation.
Forexample, the decomposition passed to the time compo-nent for Sentence 34 would be:become(inoperative(patient(\[pump 1 \]))).As shown in (34), this decomposition appears in therepresentation of the transition event itself.
The argu-ment to the become operator is then extracted for use inthe new situation representation:inoperative(patient(\[pump 1 \]))The extracted ecomposition is inspected to determineits aspectual class, completely analogously to the pro-cedure for determining the aspectual class of the inputpredicate (cf.
Section 3).
In this case, the embeddedpredicate decomposition is stative because it containsno aspectual operators.
If it contained the do operator,the new situation would have been a process.
18 In thisfashion, the decomposition guides the selection of the54 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and Aspectsituation label and time argument for the situationinferred to result from the transition event.The final piece of temporal structure derived for atransition event is the temporal relation between themoment associated with the transition event (e.g.,moment(\[faill\])) and the period associated with theresulting situation (e.g., period(\[fail2\])).
The event mo-ment is the onset of the period.
Following Allen 1983,this is called a start relationship.
By definition, then,every transition bound starts ome period.
In the case ofExample 34, the moment of failure starts the period forwhich the pump is in an inoperative state.start(moment(\[fail 1\]), period(\[fail2\]))The event ime of a transitional event is always identi-fied with the transition bound.
Thus for examples like(34), the moment ime argument serves as the eventtime of the transition event.
This identity relation is notrepresented as a predicate, but rather, is handled viaunification, as indicated in Table 3.4.3 MODULE 3: COMPUTE TEMPORAL LOCATIONPUNDIT's temporal component employs a Reichen-bachian analysis of tense whereby situations are locatedin time in terms of three temporal indices: the eventtime, speech time, and reference time.
~9 It divergesfrom Reichenbach primarily by distinguishing betweenthe event ime and the temporal structure of a situation.While Reichenbach acknowledged that the progressive,for example, pertains to temporal duration, he did notdiscuss the differences in temporal structure associatedwith distinct situation types and their interaction withtense.
Here, the event ime is only a single componentof the full temporal structure of a situation.
In thissection, we will see how this method of defining theevent time makes it possible to compute temporallocation independently of lexical or grammatical spectwhile preserving the distinctive temporal informationthey contribute to references to actual situations.The tense and perfect parameters specify the se-quencing relations among the event time, referencetime, and speech time, with each of the four configura-tions of tense and perfect specifying a distinct ordering,as shown in Figure 1 and repeated below:ET is RT = STET < RT = STET is RT < STET < RT < STsimple presentpresent perfectsimple pastpast perfectThe speech time, or time of text production, is given.
Itserves as the temporal fulcrum with respect o whichthe other temporal indices are located.
As shown inTable 4, the presence or absence of the perfect indicateswhether the event ime and reference time are distinct,in which case the event time precedes the referencetime, or whether they are identical.
Tense is taken toindicate the relation between the reference time and thespeech time, following Reichenbach's suggestion: theposition of R\[T\] relative to S\[T\] is indicated by thewords "past", "present", and "future" (Reichenbach1947).PARAMETER VALUE RULESPerfect Yes precedes(ET,RT)No ET is RTTense Past precedes(RT,ST)Present coincide(RT,ST)Table 4.
Module 3: Temporal Location.Since we are dealing here with actual time, rather thanpotential or hypothetical time, there is only past orpresent.
That is, the reference time either precedes orcoincides with the speech time.The reference time and the event ime are identical toone another for the simple tenses (ET is RT), which hasthe effect hat tense applies to the event ime.
Thus, forthe simple present, the event ime and the speech timecoincide.
Note that a distinction is made here betweenidentity and coincidence of distinct indices.
For anyspeech act or text containing a description of a situa-tion, the speech situation and the described situation arealways conceptually and observationally distinct, thusalso their respective t mporal indices.
These indices aretherefore represented as distinct times, which, in thepresent ense, happen to coincide.
However, with thesimple tenses, there is no reason to create a distinctreference time and a relation saying that it coincideswith the event time.
Rather, there are two differentfunctions, which, in the case of the simple tenses, arefilled by the same temporal index.
The function of thereference time is explained more fully below.Webber (this volume) reviews and expands upon therole reference time plays in intersentential temporalreference.
Reference time also plays a role in interpret-ing relational adverbials like now, yesterday, when, andso on.
Adverbs like now and yesterday relate the refer-ence time of a predication to an implicit time, viz., thespeech time.
Relational adverbs like before, after, andwhen relate the time of the predication they modify to anexplicitly mentioned time, i.e., the reference time asso-ciated with their syntactic omplements.
In the absenceof the perfect, the reference time is identical with theevent ime, as in (35) and (36).35.
The pressure is normal now.36.
The pressure was low yesterday.In the perfect enses, the reference time and event imeare distinct.
The event ime of both the present and pastperfect predications in (37) and (38) is past, i.e., themoment of failure is in the past.37.
The pump has now failed, z?Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 55Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and Aspect38.
The pump had failed when the gear began toturn.With the present perfect, it is the reference time that ispresent, as shown in (37) by the admissibility of theadverb now, which also refers to the present.
On onereading of (38), the event time, or moment of failure,precedes the reference time, i.e., the time specified bythe when clause.
The perfect enses can also be usedsimply to affirm truth or falsehood,~ thus (38) hasanother reading in which the perfect does not contributea distinct reference time, but merely asserts that it is infact the case that the pump failed when the gear beganto turn.4.3.1 SIMPLE TENSESThe distinct relations of event time to temporal struc-ture corresponding to the three categories of bounded-ness--unbounded, unspecified, and bounded--corre-late with distinctive behavior of the present tense.
If thetemporal structure associated with a predication is anunbounded interval, the simple present locates sometime within the interval coincident with the speech time.Examples 35-38 illustrate the simple present in thecontext of the four types of predications that hold overunbounded intervals.35.
The pressure is low.Lexical aspect: stativeProgressive: no36.
Metal particles are clogging the strainer.Lexical aspect: stativeProgressive: yes37.
The pump is operatingLexical aspect: processProgressive: yes38.
The pump is failing.Lexical aspect: transition eventProgressive: yesIn these examples, the predicate is asserted to hold forsome interval of unknown duration, which includes thespeech time.
Since this interval corresponds by defini-tion to actual time, it cannot be known to continuebeyond the speech time into the future.
However, thatit can extend indefinitely into the past is illustrated by(39), where the situations referred to in the first andsecond conjuncts are assumed to be the same.39.
The pressure is low and has been low.Predications involving process or transition-event verbsin the simple present have already been eliminated byModule 1 on the assumption that sentences like (40) and(41) do not refer to actual time.40.
The pump operates.Lexical aspect: processProgressive: no41.
The pump fails.Lexical aspect: transition eventProgressive: noIf a predication is not explicitly unbounded, i.e., if it hasor may have an endpoint, then the present tense cannotbe interpreted as locating the event time in the actualpresent.
An event time located within an unboundedinterval corresponds to persistence of the same situa-tion, whereas an event time that may also be an end-point corresponds to a transition.
The way in whichexample:s like (40) and (41) are interpreted can beexplained by considering that we cannot announcechanges in the world at the exact moment hat weperceive them, although in the guise of reportage orsportscasting, we act as though we can.In contrast to the simple present, the simple past canlocate the event ime of any temporal structure prior tothe speech time.
What is distinctive about he past tensein the context of the different temporal structurespertains to the temporal structure surrounding the eventtime.
If the temporal structure isan unbounded interval,then the event ime is some moment prior to the speechtime within a persisting interval, and the same situationextends unchanged forward towards the present andback into the past.
Example 42 illustrates the lack ofcontradiction i  asserting the continuation up to thepresent of the past, unbounded situation mentioned inthe first clause.42.
The pump was failing and is still failing.The temporal structure associated with the situationmentioned in the first clause of (43), in the simple past,is an unspecified interval.
Here it is unclear whether thetwo conjuncts refer to the same situation.
Since theevent ime of the first conjunct is represented noncom-mittally, i.e., it may or may not be an endpoint of theinterval, both interpretations are provided for by therepresentations generated here.43.
The pump operated and is still operating.Finally, the simple past of a predication denoting atransition event definitely locates an endpoint.
Theevent ime of (44) is the transitional moment between aninitial process of failing and a resulting state of beinginoperative.44.
The pump failed and is still failing.The first clause of (44) is represented by PUNDIT toassert he following temporal information: there was amoment of transition at which the pump failed, viz., itsevent time (moment(\[faill\])); this moment started aperiod in which the pump was inoperative (start(moment(\[faill\], period(\[fail2\]))); and finally, it pre-ceded the speech time (precedes(moment(\[faill\]), SpeechTime)).
The second clause cannot refer to the sametransition event because a unique transition boundcannot both precede and coincide with the speech time,nor can it both be an endpoint of, and contained within,an interval.
Rather, the second clause refers to a distinctsituation, either a process that the speaker presumeswill eventually result in a new failure, or an iteration ofsuccessive failure events.
Of these two possibilities forthe second clause, PUNDIT currently generates onlythe former.56 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and Aspect4.3.2 PERFECT TENSESThe perfect enses have a more complex semantics andpragmatics than the simple tenses.
The semantic inter-pretation given here accounts for the temporal interpre-tations assigned to the perfect enses in which the eventtime and reference time are distinct from one another.There are uses of the perfect hat do not have thesetemporal effects, as pointed out in McCawley 1971, i.e.,cases where the event time and reference time wouldnot be distinct.
Here we consider only the temporallyrelevant uses of the perfect, where each perfect ensespecifies two temporal relations: in both cases, theevent time precedes the reference time; and tenseindicates whether the reference time coincides with orprecedes the speech time.The following examples illustrate the present andpast perfect with a variety of temporal structures.
Theonly difference between these examples and the simplepresent tenses examined in the preceding section is therelation between the reference time and event ime.
Therelation between temporal structure, event time, andspeech time is the same as for the simple past.45.
The engine has been operating.
(unboundedprocess)46.
The engine has operated.
(unspecified process)47.
The pump has failed.
(transition event)48.
The pressure had been low.
(state)49.
The pump had failed.
(transition event)5 INTERPRETING TEMPORAL ADVERBIALSIt is assumed that temporal adverbials can be analyzedin terms of the same components of temporal structureand temporal sequencing constraints hat apply to situ-ations.
The situation representations developed hereprovide a foundation for interpreting three distinct ypesof adverbial modification corresponding to the threefeatures represented in temporal structure, i.e., kinesis,intervals, and moments.
Rate adverbs like slowly andrapidly, which modify the manner in which situationsevolve through time, modify active intervals and notstative intervals.
For an example like (50), no explicitactive interval would be represented, thus one wouldhave to be coerced in order to interpret the adverb.50.
The pressure was rapidly low.Examples like (51), on the other hand, provide a moti-vation for representing the initial active interval of atransition event (cf.
Section 4.2.3), since the adverbessentially selects for such an interval.51.
The engine quickly failed.Durational adverbials like for X, where X is a temporalmeasure phrase, modify any interval, but not theirendpoints.
Finally, relational adverbs, which specifytemporal sequence, modify the reference time of situa-tions.Adverbials can combine relational and durationalelements.
In X, where X is a temporal measure phrase,not only specifies a duration, but also relates theendpoint of this duration to some other time, e.g., thetime at which the utterance is produced, as in (52).52.
The lights will go off in 10 minutes (e.g., fromnow).Temporal connectives like before and after can combinewith temporal measure phrases to yield complex adver-bials specifying both a duration and a relation, as in (53).53.
The engine seized five minutes before the alarmsounded.In this section, we will look briefly at the two types ofdurational phrases compared in Vendler 1967 in order todemonstrate he advantages of the representations de-veloped here for interpreting them.
Then we will lookbriefly at the algorithm for interpreting complex sen-tences with subordinate adverbial clauses.5.1 DURATIONAL ADVERBIALSUnbounded situations.
Predications denoting states andprocesses have duration, as shown by the interpretationof durational dverbial phrases of the formforX, whereX is a time measure, as in (54) and (55):54.
The pressure was low for 10 minutes.
(state)55.
The gear was turning for 10 minutes.
(unboundedprocess)However, as noted in preceding discussions, the pasttense in reference to states and unbounded processesdoes not apply to the whole duration.
It applies to themoment within the interval designated as the situation'sevent ime.
Since in (54) and (55) the event ime is pastand the speech time is present, the two temporal indicescreate an explicit emporal extent within which to locatethe durational phrases.
The for adverbial phrase alsoevokes an unbounded uration, meaning that the mea-sure phrase does not necessarily encompass the entireduration, as shown by the lack of contradiction inasserting the continuation of the interval up to thepresent, as in (56) and (57).56.
The pressure was low for 10 minutes and is stilllow.57.
The gear was turning for 10 minutes and is stillturning.The present perfect would allow one to assert some-thing semantically very similar to (56) and (57), butmore laconically (e.g., The pressure has been low for 10minutes.).
However, a context in which (56) would bemore correct han the corresponding perfect is perfectlypossible; it would have.to be a context where thepressure is now low, was low over some interval of 10minutes' duration, but where this interval is more than10 minutes prior to the present, and where the pressurehas continued to be low up to the present (e.g., A: Thealarm should go off if the pressure is low for 10 minutes.B: Well, the pressure was low for 10 minutes and it'sstill low, but the alarm still hasn't gone off.
).The past tense with an unbounded interval evokes aspan of time between the past event time and thepresent speech time within which to situate the measureof time given by a for adverbial.
However, there is noComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 57Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and Aspectsuch span of time associated with the present ense ofan unbounded interval, hence the impossibility of a formeasure phrase in examples (58) and (59).
2258. ?
The pressure is low for 10 minutes.59.
?
The gear is turning for 10 minutes.Note that the present perfect, like the simple past, doesprovide a temporal point prior to the present, therebycreating a span of time for the durational phrase to applyto, as in (60) and (61):60.
The pressure has been low for three hours.61.
The gear has been turning for five minutes.The temporal structures generated for examples like(56)-(59) make it possible to correctly interpret headverbial phrases they contain.
The measure phrases in(56) and (57) can be interpreted not simply because thementioned situations have duration, but more impor-tantly because of the distinctness of the two temporalindices, event time and speech time.
In (58) and (59),where event ime and speech time coincide, there is noexplicit span of time within which to situate the measurephrase.
Cases where there is no explicit component oftemporal structure in the situation representation tomatch up with the temporal structure evoked by atemporal adverbial are probably candidates for the kindof coercion discussed in Moens and Steedman (thisvolume).The durational dverbial phrases in (62)-(64) not onlyspecify a duration, but also an endpoint (Vendler ~967).Since progressive process predications are unbounded,there is no actual endpoint o be mapped to, hence,under one reading, (62) cannot be interpreted as asituation with an actual time; rather, it seems to refer toan activity that was supposed to take place five minutesfrom some time previously specified in the discoursecontext (e.g., paraphrasable as It was to be the case thatthe gear would turn five minutes from the present).There is another possible reading, paraphrasable as Itturned out to be the case that the gear turned fiveminutes after some previously specified time, as in thecontext I applied some lubricant o the gear and it wasturning in five minutes, which, like (58) and (59) above,may be examples requiring coercion.
23 In contrast,examples 63 and 64 can be interpreted as actual situa-tions whose endpoints coincide with the endpoints ofthe five-minute duration.62.
The gear was turning in five minutes.63.
The gear turned in five minutes.64.
The engine was repaired in five minutes.The two types of durational adverbials behave differ-ently when modifying the different ypes of temporalstructures in ways that tend to confirm the representa-tions proposed here.5.2 COMPLEX SENTENCESThe temporal adverbials encountered in the CASREPsdomain consisted predominantly of phrases introducedby temporal connectives, e.g., when, before, and after(Smith 1981).
The general problem in analyzing thestrictly temporal information associated with such con-nectives is to associate some time evoked by the matrixclause with some time evoked by the complementphrase.
In general, connectives are represented as as-sociating the reference time of the matrix clause withthe reference time of the compl'ement.
The procedureinvolved in analyzing the temporal relations pecifiedby a beJbre adverb (or other temporal connective) hasthe six steps illustrated in (65) below.
(65) The compressor failed before the pump seized.Step 1: ,Analyze semantics ofthemain clauseStep 2: Find reference time of mainclause (RT1)Step 3: Recognize t mporal dverbStep 4: Analyze semantics ofsubordinate clauseStep 5: Find reference time ofsubord, clause (RT2)Step 6: Look up semantic structureof connectiveThe compressor failedmoment(\[faill\])beforethe pump seizedmoment(\[seize 1 \])precede(RTl, RT2)Result: precedes(moment(\[faill\]), moment(\[seizel\]))First, the temporal semantics of the main clause isanalyzed.
One of the outputs of this analysis is thereference time of the main clause, which in this casewould be represented asmoment(\[faill\]).
Then the timecomponent finds the adverbial phrase before the pumpseized in the constituent list, which it recognizes asconsisting of a temporal connective (before) and acomplement.
The complement clause is sent to thesemantic interpreter (Palmer 1985) and is returned to thetime component for temporal analysis.
The fourth step,the temporal analysis of the subordinate clause, yieldsthe information that the reference time of the subordi-nate clause is moment(\[seizel\]).
Finally, the time com-ponent looks up the predicate structure representing thesemantics of the temporal connective.
Before is repre-sented as a binary predicatewpreeedes---whose fir targument is the reference time of the main clause andwhose second argument is the reference time of thecomplement clause.Currently, relational adverbs like before, after, andwhen are represented as predicates relating the refer-ence times of the modified and modifying situations.The procedure for handling temporal connectives as-sumes a priori that the reference times of the syntacti-cally superordinate and subordinate constituents are therequired :input.
In future work, these and other adverbswill be treated more explicitly as semantic predicateswith selectional constraints hat guide the search for theappropriate components of temporal structure associ-ated with the referents of the relevant constituents.6 CONCLUSIONThe situation representations presented here model thetemporal meaning of inflected verbs by assigning asemantic value to each of four components; the inherentlexical aspect, the tense, and the presence or absence of58 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and Aspectthe perfect and progressive.
Two significant advantagesto the overall proposal are the simplicity of the algo-rithm that computes the representations, and the gen-erality of the building blocks used in constructing them.The algorithm accounts for the context dependenciesamong the four semantic omponents through a singlemechanism, i.e., an appropriate characterization f theevent time and its relation to the full temporal structureof a state, process, or transition event.
These temporalstructures are composed of intervals that may be activeor stative, and that may be bounded, unbounded, orunspecified for boundedness.The situation representations have certain advan-tages in and of themselves.
For example, the linkagebetween the components of temporal structure andDowty's aspect calculus, and the incorporation of aReichenbachian treatment of tense, make it possible torepresent very precisely what predicates hold when.Further, the dual possibility of associating the becomeoperator either with an unbounded interval or a transi-tion bound between intervals circumvents the so-calledimperfective paradox.
An additional advantage is theutility of these representations for further processing.The preceding section illustrated how the three buildingblocks of the representations (i.e., the notion of persis-tence of some situation through an interval, kinesis ofthe situation, and boundedness of the interval) make itpossible to interpret accurately three correspondingkinds of temporal adverbials, and to identify those caseswhere coercion is required.
Finally, explicit represen-tation of the reference times and event times withindistinct types of temporal structures hould make itpossible to account for the differential contribution ofsituations to narratives and other types of discourse.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSI was fortunate in having the opportunity to consider theproblems of temporal analysis in the context of acongenial work environment with stimulating col-leagues and a large, relatively comprehensive t xt proc-essing system.
The members of my group providedmuch useful criticism and commentary, especially Ly-nette Hirschman, Deborah Dahl, Martha Palmer andCarl Weir.
Bonnie Webber was extremely generous inher encouragement, and offered invaluable suggestions.I also profited from discussions with Mark Steedman,and his careful reading of earlier versions of this paper.This work was supported by DARPA under contractN00014-85-C-0012, administered by the Office of NavalResearch.
Approved for public release, distributionunlimited.REFERENCESAllen, James F. 1983 Maintaining Knowledge about Temporal Inter-vals.
Communications ofthe ACM 26(11): 832--43.Alien, James F. 1984 Towards aGeneral Theory of Action and Time.Artificial Intelligence 23(2): 123-60.Austin, J. L. 1977 How to Do Things with Words.
Harvard UniversityPress, Cambridge, MA.Comrie, Bernard.
1976 Aspect: An Introduction to the Study ofVerbal Aspect and Related Problems.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, England.Dahl, Deborah A.
1986 Focusing and Reference Resolution i PUN-DIT.
Presented atAAAI, Philadelphia, PA.Dahl, Deborah A.; Dowding, John; Hirschman, Lynette; Lang,Francois; Linebarger, Marcia; Palmer, Martha; Passonneau, Re-becca; and Riley, Leslie.
1987a Integrating Syntax, Semantics,and Discourse: DARPA Natural Language Understanding Pro-gram.
R&D Status Report.
Unisys Defense Systems, Paoli Re-search Center.
Paoli, PA.Dahl, Deborah A.; Palmer, Martha S.; and Passonneau, Rebecca J.1987b Nominalizations in PUNDIT.
Proceedings of the 25thAnnual Meeting of the ACL.
Stanford, CA.Dowding, John; and Hirschman, Lynette.
1987 Dynamic Translationfor Rule Pruning in Restriction Grammar.
Second InternationalWorkshop on Natural-Language Understanding and Logic Pro-gramming.
Vancouver, B.C., Canada.Dowty, David.
1979 Word Meaning and Montague Grammar.
D.Reidel, Dordrecht, Netherlands.Dowty, David.
1982 Tenses, Time Adverbials, and CompositionalSemantic Theory.
Linguistics and Philosophy 5: 23-55.Dowty, David.
1986 The Effects of Aspectual Class on the TemporalStructure of Discourse: Semantics orPragmatics.
Linguistics andPhilosophy 9: 37--61.Foley, William; and Van Valin, R. 1984 Functional Syntax andUniversal Grammar.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,England.Freed, Alice.
1979 The Semantics ofEnglish Aspectual Complemen-tation.
Reidel, Dordrecht, Netherlands.Jackendoff, Ray.
1987 The Status of Thematic Relations in LinguisticTheory.
Linguistic Inquiry 18(3): 369-411.Jakobson, Roman.
1957 Shifters, Verbal Categories, and the RussianVerb.
In Selected Writings.
Mouton, The Hague.Lamiroy, Beatrice.
1987 The Complementation of Aspectual Verbs inFrench.
Language 63(2): 278-98.Levin, Beth; and Rappaport, Malka.
1986 The Formation of Adjecti-val Passives.
Linguistic Inquiry 17: 623-62.Linebarger, Marcia; Dahl, Deborah A.; Hirschman, Lynette; andPassonneau, Rebecca J.
1988 Sentence Fragments Regular Struc-tures.
Proceedings of the 26th Annual Meeting of the ACL.Buffalo, NY.McCawley, James.
1971 Tense and Time Reference in English.
InStudies in Linguistic Semantics.
Fillmore, Charles J., and Langen-doen, D. Terence (eds.).
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, New York,NY; 97-114.Moens, Mark; and Steedman, Mark J.
1987 Temporal Ontology inNatural Language.
Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of theACL.
Stanford, CA.Mourelatos, Alexander P.D.
1981 Events, Processes and States.
InTense and Aspect.
Tedeschi, P.J., and Zaenen, A.
(eds.).
Aca-demic Press, New York, NY; 191-212.Mufwene, Salikoko S. 1984 Stativity and the Progressive.
IndianaUniversity Linguistics Club, Indianapolis, IN.Newmeyer, Frederick.
1975 English Aspectual Verbs.
Mouton, TheHague.Palmer, Martha S. 1985 Driving Semantics for a Limited Domain.Ph,D.
diss.
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland.Palmer, Martha S.; Dahl, Deborah A.; Schiffman (Passonneau),Rebecca J.; Hirschman, Lynette; Linebarger, Marcia; and Dowd-ing, John.
1986 Recovering Implicit Information.
Proceedings ofthe 24th Annual Meeting of the ACL.
Columbia University, NewYork, NY.Passonneau, Rebecca J.
1986 Designing Lexical Entries for a LimitedDomain.
Logic-Based Systems Technical Memo No.
42.
PaoliResearch Center, System Development Corporation.
Paoli, PA.Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 59Rebecca J. Passonneau A Computational Model of the Semantics of Tense and AspectReichenbach, Hans.
1947 Elements of Symbolic Logic.
The FreePress, New York, NY.Roberts, Craige.
1985 Modal Subordination and Anaphora in Dis-course.
Paper presented at the 60th LSA.
Seattle, WA.Smith, Carlota S. 1981 Semantic and Syntactic Constraints on Tem-poral Interpretation.
In Tense and Aspect.
Tedeschi, l?.J., andZaenen, A.
(eds.).
Academic Press, New York, NY; 213-37.Smith, Carlota S. 1986 A Speaker-based Approach to Aspect.
Lin-guistics and Philosophy 9:97-115.Talmy, Leonard.
1985 Lexicalization Patterns: Semantic Structure inLexical Forms.
In Language Typology and Syntactic Description:Grammatical Categories and the Lexicon.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, England; 63-163.Taylor, Barry.
1977 Tense and Continuity.
Linguistics and Philoso-phy 1: 99-220.Vendler, Zeno.
1967 Verbs and Times.
In Linguistics in Philosophy.Cornell University Press, Ithaca, New York, 97-121.Vlach, Frank.
1981 The Semantics of the Progressive.
In Tense andAspect.
Tedeschi, P.J., and Zaenen, A.
(eds.).
Academic Press,New York, NY; 271-292.Webber, Bonnie.
1987 The Interpretation of Tense in Discourse.Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of the ACL.
Stanford,CA.NOTES1.
Formerly Paoli Research Center, SDC--A Burroughs Company.2.
Prolog UNDerstanding of Integrated Text: it is a modularsystem, implemented in Quintus Prolog, with distinct syntactic,semantic and pragmatic omponents (Dahl 1987a, Dahl 1986,Dowding 1987, Palmer 1986).3.
PUNDIT has now been adapted to four domains.4.
Webber, in work carried out in part at the Paoli Research Center,proposes a focusing algorithm for computing intersententialtemporal relations which is analogous to Sidner's focusingmechanism for definite anaphoric expressions.
Future work byWebber and Passonneau will integrate the two dimensions ofinter- and intrasentential temporal analysis.5.
Various types of tenseless predications are processed by PUN-DIT's temporal component, including nominalizations, certainclausal modifiers of noun phrases (e.g., pressure decreasingbelow 60 psig caused the pump to fail), and sentence fragments(Linebarger 1988).
However, this paper focuses on the simplercase of tensed clauses.6.
Reference time also plays a role in intersentential temporalreference (cf.
Hinrichs, Moens and Steedman, Nakhimovsky,Webber, this volume).7.
For the sake of brevity, the treatment of temporal adverbs withnominal complements is not described in this paper, but cf.
Dahl1987b.8.
These are not currently handled in the PUNDIT system.
Predi-cations embedded in any one of these contexts do not directlydenote specific situations but rather denote types of situationswhich, e.g., might occur, have not occurred, or tend to occur.Treatment of these contexts awaits the development of a repre-sentation which distinguishes between specific situations whichhold for some real time and types of situations which hold forsome potential time.
One such proposal appears in Roberts 1985,which allows for the creation of temporary contexts.9.
Cf.
discussion of examples like I am thinking ood thoughts, andMy daughter is being very naughty, in Smith 1986.10.
In general, temporal adverbials can modify an existing compo-nenl of temporal structure or add components of temporalstructure.11.
For comparisons of stativity and the progressive, cf.
Vlach 1981,where the two are equated, Smith's counterargument (1986), andthe interesting proposal in Mufwene 1984.12.
Nakhimovsky (this volume) makes essentially the same argu-ment, namely that English lacks overt perfective grammaticalaspect.
In other words, the indeterminacy associated with thesimple past of a process verb is evidence for the argument thatthe perfective or culminated reading associated with simple pasttransition event verbs, which are discussed in the next subsec-tion, is a consequence of the interaction between tense andlexical aspect, rather than of the simple past tense itself.13.
This treatment of transition events closely resembles the eventstructure which Moens and Steedman refer to as a nucleus.
Theydefine a nucleus as a structure comprising a culmination, anassociated preparatory process, and a consequent s ate (Moens1987).14.
The durational adverbial in (14) forces a stative reading for apredicate which in isolation would be ambiguous between apassive and the adjectival passive (Levin 1986), in which the pastparticiple is interpreted statively or adjectivally.15.
The atom \[pressurel\] is an identifier of the entity referred to inthe noun phrase and is created by PUNDIT's reference resolu-tion component (Dahl 1986).16.
For sentence fragments such as erosion of blade tip evident, thetense parameter is actually untensed.
The time componentassigns present or past tense readings to fragments, dependingon the aspectual class of the fragment (Linebarger 1988).17.
As noted elsewhere, the aspectual classification of verbs is notcompletely determinate (Talmy 1985).
Clog may very well be averb that can refer either to a process or a state, and it might bepossible to decide dynamically the lexical aspect of a specificinstance through interaction with a sophisticated model, such asone which incorporates the notion of resource use, as suggestedby Nakhimovsky (this volume).
However, in PUNDIT theaspectual classification of verbs is domain dependent.18.
The embedded ecomposition never contains the become oper-ator; a decomposition with two become operators (e.g.,become(become(inoperative(patient(\[pumpl\]))))) would be inco-herent.19.
Reichenbach's (1947) treatment of tense and other token reflex-ive (indexical) elements is similar to Jakobson's (1957).20.
Dowty and others have pointed out that the situation mentionedin a present perfect often persists up to the speech time (1982).However, this is generally not the case with reference tounbounded processes (e.g., The pump has operated), and seemsto depend on a variety of pragmatic factors for the other situationtypes.21.
Cf.
McCawley's (1971) discussion of the ambiguities of theperfect, especially the assertorial perfect.22.
Since isolated sentences can generally be given a variety ofreadings, it is often necessary to add qualifications regarding theintended reading of linguistic examples.
Sentences like (56) and(57), for example, can be interpreted as the pressure is to be lowfor 10 minutes.
Such interpretations are outside the scope of thispaper, for they pertain to hypothetical rather than actual times.23.
Thanks to Bonnie Webber and Mark Steedman for pointing outthe second reading mentioned here,60 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988
