TEMPORAL ONTOLOGY AND TEMPORAL REFERENCEMarc  MoensCentre for Cognitive ScienceUniversity of Ed inburghEd inburgh,  Scotland EH8 9LWMark  S teedmanDepartment  of AICentre for Cognitive ScienceUniversity of Ed inburghandDepar tment  of Computer  and In format ion ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhi ladelphia, PA 19104-6389"Two weeks later, Bonadea had already been his loverfor a fortnight.
"- -Robert  Musil, Der Mann ohne Eigenschaften.A semantics of temporal categories in language and a theory of their use in defining the temporalrelations between events both require a more complex structure on the domain underlying the meaningrepresentations than is commonly assumed.
This paper proposes an ontology based on such notions ascausation and consequence, rather than on purely temporal primitives.
A central notion in the ontologyis that of an elementary event-complex called a "nucleus."
A nucleus can be thought of as an associationof a goal event, or "culmination," with a "preparatory process" by which it is accomplished, and a"consequent s ate," which ensues.
Natural-language categories like aspects, futurates, adverbials, andwhen-clauses are argued to change the temporal/aspectual c tegory of propositions under the control ofsuch a nucleic knowledge representation structure.
The same concept of a nucleus plays a central rolein a theory of temporal reference, and of the semantics of tense, which we follow McCawley, Partee, andIsard in regarding as an anaphoric ategory.
We claim that any manageable formalism for natural-language temporal descriptions will have to embody such an ontology, as will any usable temporaldatabase for knowledge about events which is to be interrogated using natural anguage.1 INTRODUCTIONIt is often assumed that the semantics of temporalexpressions i directly related to the linear time conceptfamiliar from high-school physics--that is, to a modelbased on the number line.
However,  there are goodreasons for suspecting that such a conception is not theone that our linguistic categories are most directlyrelated to.
When-clauses provide an example of themismatch between linguistic temporal categories and asemantics based on such an assumption.
Consider thefollowing examples, suggested by Ritchie 1979:1.
When they built the 39th Street b r idge .
.
.a .
.
.
.
a local architect drew up the plans.b .
.
.
.
they used the best materials.c .
.
.
.
they solved most of their traffic problems.To map the temporal relations expressed in these ex-amples onto linear time, and to try to express thesemantics of when in terms of points or intervals(possibly associated with events), would appear toimply either that when is multiply ambiguous, allowingthese points or intervals to be temporally related in atleast three different ways, or that the relation expressedCopyright 1988 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission tocopy without fee all or part of this material isgranted providedthat he copies are not made for direct commercial dvantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
Tocopy otherwise, or to republish, requires afee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/88/010015-28503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 15Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal Referencebetween main and when-clauses i  one of approximatecoincidence.
However,  neither of these tactics explainsthe peculiarity of utterances like the following:2.
#When my car broke down, the sun set.The unusual character of this statement seems to arisebecause the when-clause predicates omething morethan mere temporal coincidence, that is, some contin-gent relation such as a causal link or an enablementrelation between the two events.
Our knowledge of theworld does not easily support such a link for (2), at leastif we don't indulge in the fiction that the naturaluniverse is conspiring against the speaker.
Nor is therelation predicated between the two events by when theone that we normally think of as scientifically causal,for when seems to predicate an intransitive relation.Consider:3. a.
When John left, Sue cried.b.
When Sue cried, her mother got upset.c.
When John left, Sue's mother got upset.From (3a) and (b) it would be unwarranted to concludethe state of affairs that is described in (c).
And thiscausal aspect of the sentence's meaning must stem fromthe sense-meaning of when, because parallel utterancesusing while, just after, at approximately the same timeas, and the like, which predicate purely temporal coin-cidence, are perfectly felicitous.We shall claim that the different emporal relationsconveyed in examples (1) and (2) do not arise fi'om anysense-ambiguity of when, or from any "fuzziness" inthe relation that it expresses between the times referredto in the clauses it conjoins, but from the fact that themeaning of when is not primarily temporal at all.
Nor isit simply causal, as Example 3 shows.
We will argueinstead that when has a single sense-meaning, reflectingits role of establishing a temporal focus, which wefollow Isard and Longuet-Higgins (1973) in relating toReichenbach's reference time (cf.
introduction to thiscollection).
The apparent diversity of meanings arisesfrom the nature of this referent and the organisation ofevents and states of affairs in episodic memory under arelation we shall call contingency, a term related, but notidentical to a notion like causality, rather than meretemporal sequentiality.
This contingent, nontemporalrelation on the representation of events in episodicmemory also determines the ontology of propositionsassociated with linguistic expressions denoting eventsand states.
It is to these that we turn first.2 TEMPORAL AND ASPECTUAL CATEGORIESPropositions conveyed by English sentences uttered incontext can, following Vendler, be classified into tem-poral or aspectual types, partly on the basis of thetenses, aspects, and adverbials with which they canco-occur (cf.
Dowty 1979, and the introduction to thepresent collection).
The term aspectual type refers to therelation that a speaker predicates of the particularhappening that their utterance describes, relative toother happenings in the domain of the discourse.
Whatthe speaker says about those relations is of course quitedistinct from what those relations objectively are.
Inpartictdar, the speaker's predications about events willtypically be coloured by the fact that those events areinvolved in sequences that are planned, predicted,intended, or otherwise governed by agencies of onekind or another.
For want of some established term tocover this very general class of dependencies betweenevents, we will use the term contingency.
Thus anutterance of4.
Harry reached the topis usually typical of what we will call a culmination--informally, an event which the speaker views as punc-tual or instantaneous, and as accompanied by a transi-tion to a new state of the world.
~ This new state we willrefer to as the consequent state of the event.
It does notnecessarily include all events that are objectively and infact consequences.
It rather includes only those conse-quences that the speaker views as contingently relatedto other events that are under discussion, say bycausing them or by permitting them to occur.
Forreasons that are discussed in Section 3.2 below, expres-sions like these readily combine with the perfect, as in5.
Harry has reached the top.The point may perhaps best be made by noting thatthere is another class of punctual expressions that is notnormally associated with a consequent state.
For exam-ple,6.
John hiccuppedis not usually viewed as leading to any relevant changein the state of the world.
It typifies what we call a pointexpression.
A point is an event (not necessarily aninstantaneous one) that is viewed as an indivisiblewhole and whose consequences are not at issue in thediscourse--which of course does not mean that de factoconsequences do not exist.
Such expressions are evi-dently not the same as culminations, for they are ratherodd in combination with the perfect, as in7.
#Harry  has hiccupped.The reasons for this will also be discussed below.Sentences like8.
Harry climbedtypify a third aspectual category, which we will call forobvious reasons a process.
Most utterances of suchsentences describe an event as extended in time but notcharacterised by any particular conclusion or culmina-tion.
As was pointed out by Vendler, expressions likethese can be combined with a for-adverbial but not withan/n-adverbial:16 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal Reference9.
Harry climbed for several hours.#Harry climbed in several hours.In contrast,10.
Harry climbed to the toptypically describes a state of affairs that also extends intime but that does have a particular culmination asso-ciated with it at which a change of state takes place.
Weclassify most utterances of such sentences as a fourthaspectual type, called a culminated process.
Culminatedprocesses, in contrast o ordinary processes, combinereadily with an/n-adverbial but not with a for-adverbial.11.
Harry climbed all the way to the top in less than 45minutes.#Harry climbed all the way to the top for less than45 minutes.All of the above categories describe what commonsense suggests we call events---that is, happenings withdefined beginnings and ends.
We distinguish these"hard-edged" categories from a class of indefinitelyextending states of affairs, which, equally commonsen-sically, we call states.
Example 12 typically describesone kind of state:12.
Harry is at the top.Part of the appeal of Vendler's account, and suchdescendants a the present proposal, is that it suggeststhat part of the meaning of any utterance of a sentenceis one of a small number of temporal/aspectual profilesdistinguished on a small number of dimensions.
Inpresent erms, the event-types can be distinguished onjust two dimensions, one concerned with the contrastbetween punctuality and temporal extension, the otherwith the association with a consequent state.
Thissubcategorisation can be summarized as in Figure 1.+conseq-conseqEVENTS STATESatomicCULMINATIONrecognize, spot,win the racePOINThiccup,tap, winkextendedCULMINATEDPROCESSbuild a house,eat a sandwichPROCESSrun, swim.
walk,play the pianounderstand,love, know,resembleFigure 1.We have included in Figure 1 examples of verbs whichtypically yield propositions of the relevant ypes, andwe shall assume that such verbs (or, strictly speaking,the associated uninstantiated propositions) are lexicallyspecified as bearing that type.
However, it cannot bestressed too often that these aspectual profiles areproperties of sentences used in a context: sense-mean-ings of sentences or verbs in isolation are usuallycompatible with several (or even all possible) Vendle-rian profiles, as Dowty and Verkuyl have pointed out--hence the frequent use of words like "typically" and"readily" above.
The details of this taxonomy and thecriteria according to which utterances can be catego-rised are less important than the observation that eachprimitive ntity of a given type, such as the culminationevent of Harry's reaching the top, carries intimations ofother associated events and states, such as the processby which the culmination was achieved and the conse-quent state that followed.
What linguistic devices liketenses, aspects, and temporal/aspectual adverbials ap-pear to do is to transform entities of one type into theseother contingently related entities, or to turn them intocomposites with those related entities.For example, we shall argue below that the progres-sive auxiliary demands that its argument be a process,which it predicates as ongoing.
If it is combined with anevent type that isn't a process, say with a punctualevent as in Harry was hiccupping, then it will cause thatoriginal event to be reinterpreted as a process, in thiscase the process of iteration or repetition of the basicevent.
Similarly, we shall argue that a perfect auxiliarydemands a culmination, predicating of the time referredto that the associated consequent state holds.
Thenotion of "time referred to" is related to Reichenbach'sreference time in Section 4.1 below.
If the perfect iscombined with an event description for which worldknowledge provides no obvious culmination, then theensemble will tend to be anomalous.
So, for example,Harry has reached the top is fine, but The clock hasticked, and Harry has hummed, to the extent hat theyare acceptable at all, seem to demand rather specialscenarios in which the tick of the clock and the mere actof humming have a momentousness that they usuallylack.The phenomenon ofchange in the aspectual type of aproposition under the influence of modifiers like tenses,temporal adverbials, and aspectual auxiliaries is ofcentral importance to the present account.
We shall talkof such modifiers as functions which "coerce" theirinputs to the appropriate type, by a loose analogy withtype-coercion i programming languages (cf.
Ait-Kaci1984).
Thus the effect on meaning of the combination ofthe progressive with an expression denoting an atomicpunctual event as in Sandra was hiccupping occurs intwo stages: first the point proposition is coerced into aprocess of iteration of that point.
Only then can thisprocess be defined as ongoing, and hence as a progres-sive state.
These two stages might be represented as inthe following diagram:Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 17Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal Reference13.
(point (Sandra hiccup))(process (iteration (point (Sandra hiccup))))(progressive (process (iteration (point (Sandrahiccup)))))The temporal/aspectual ontology that underlies the phe-nomenon of aspectual type coercion can be defined interms of the transition network shown in Figure 2, inwhich each transition is associated with a change in thecontent and where, in addition, the felicity of anyparticular transition for a given proposition is condi-tional on support from knowledge and context.EVENTSatomic I extended~N/ ' '~  +prep.proce,s TED~ "~" HABITUAL STATECULMINA?
conseq.
CULMI.
AT\[ON PROCESS / 7i21) .
tnprogres~ STATE-conseq.
POINT,  ~ PROCESSiteration LEX\[CALSTATESTATESFigure 2.Rather than attempting to explain this diagram from firstprinciples, we present below a number of examples ofeach transition.
However,  it is worth noting first thatmany of the permissible transitions between aspectualcategories illustrated in Figure 2 appear to be related toa single elementary contingency-based vent structurewhich we call a nucleus.
A nucleus is defined as astructure comprising a culmination, an associated pre-paratory process, and a consequent state.
2 It can berepresented pictorially as in Figure 3:preparatory process consequent stateI / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / I / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /IculminationFigure 3.Any or all of these elements may be compound: forexample, the preparation leading to the culmination ofreaching the top of Mt.
Everest may consist of a numberof discrete steps of climbing, resting, having lunch, orwhatever.
The consequent s ate may also be compound;most importantly, it includes the further events, if any,that are in the same sequence of contingently relatedevents as the culmination.
SimilArly, the culminationitself may be a complex event.
For example, we shallsee below that the entire culminated process of climbingMt.
Everest can be treated as a culmination in its ownright.
\]in this case, the associated preparatory processand consequent state will be different ones to thoseinternal to the culminated process itself.3 ASPECT3.1 THE PROGRESSIVEAccording to the present heory, progressive auxiliariesare fimctions that require their input to denote a proc-ess.
Their result is a type of state that we shall call aprogressive state, which describes the process as ongo-ing at the reference time.
Thus the following sentence,among other meanings that we shall get to in a moment,can simply predicate of a present reference time that theprocess in question began at some earlier time and hasnot yet stopped:14.
The president is speaking.If the input to a progressive is atomic then by definitionit cannot be described as ongoing.
However,  as wasnoted in the introduction, it may be coerced into aprocess by being iterated, as in15.
Harry is hiccupping.There is another oute through the network in Figure 2,where the point is coerced into a culmination, i.e., asconstituting an atomic event that does have conse-quences associated with it.
In this case, the interpreta-tion for (15) parallels the one given for Harry wasreaching the top, below.
However,  this particular ex-ample is deliberately chosen in order to make thatinterpretation unlikely.If a progressive combines with a culminated process,as in:16.
Roger was running a mile- - then the latter must also first be coerced to become aprocess.
The most obvious way to do this is to strip offthe culmination and leave the preparatory process be-hind.
It is this process that is stated to be ongoing at thepast reference time.
Another possible coercion is totreat the entire culminated process as a point, and toiterate it.
This interpretation appears to be the one thatis forced by continuing (16) as in:17.
Roger was running a mile last week.
This week he isup to three.When a culmination expression like reach the top isused with a progressive, it must be coerced to becomea process in a slightly more complicated way.
The most18 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal Referenceobvious path through the network in Figure 2 from theculmination node to the process node involves firstadding a preparatory process to the culmination to makeit a culminated process, then stripping off the culmina-tion point as before.
Thus sentences like the followingdescribe this preparatory process as ongoing at the pastreference time:18.
Harry was reaching the top.Again, an iterated reading is possible in principle, butpragmatically unlikely here.As a result of the coercions implicit in the last twoexamples, it is no longer asserted that the culminationsin question ever in fact occurred, but only that theassociated preparatory processes did.
Thus there is nocontradiction in continuations that explicitly deny theculmination, like:19. a. Harry was running a mile, but he gave up aftertwo laps.b.
Harry was reaching the top when he slipped andfell to the bottom.The fact that, according to the present heory, progres-sives coerce their input to be a process so that anyassociated culmination is stripped away and no longercontributes to truth conditions provides a resolution ofthe imperfective paradox (Dowty 1979), without appeal-ing to theory-external constructs like inertia worlds.3.2 TI lE PERFECTA perfect, as in20.
Harry has reached the topis a function that requires its input category to be aculmination.
Its result is the corresponding consequentstate.
The most obvious of these consequences for (20)is that Harry still be at the top, although as usual thereare other possibilities.
Informal evidence that this in-deed is the function of the perfect can be obtained bynoticing that perfects are infelicitous if the salientconsequences are not in force.
Thus, when I 'm on myway to get a cloth to clean up the coffee I accidentallyspilled, I can say21.
I have spilled my coffee.After cleaning up the mess, however, all the obviousconsequences associated with this event seem to beover.
In that context, it would be infelicitous to utter(21).If the input to a perfect is not a culmination, then theperfect will do its best to coerce it to be one, subject othe limitations imposed by contextual knowledge.
If thehearer cannot identify any relevant consequences, asseems likely for the following example, then coercionmay simply fail, in which case a perfect will be infelic-itous, as was noted earlier:22.
#The star has twinkled.To be able to use a culminated process expression likeclimbing Mount Everest with a perfect auxiliary, it firsthas to be coerced into a culmination.
Requiring such atransition might seem unnecessary since a culminatedprocess already implies the existence of a culminationwith consequences to which the perfect could refer.
Butconsider Figure 4 as a possible rendering of the nucleusassociated with climbing Mt.
Everest:climbing the mountain being at the topt / / / l l l / / I / / / / / / / / / / / / / f / / I / I / I / / / / / / / I / I / Ireaching the summitof Mt.
EverestFigure 4.I fa  perfect could be used to single out the consequencesof a nucleus associated with a culminated processexpression, then having climbed Mt.
Everest could beused to refer to the state of having reached the/summitor being at the top.
However, this does not seem to bethe case.
A reporter who has managed to establish radiocontact with a mountaineer who has just reached the topof Mt.
Everest is unlikely to ask23.
Have you climbed Mt.
Everest yet?The question rather seems to concern consequences ofthe culminated process as a whole.
We capture this factby making the perfect coerce the culminated process tobecome a culmination.
The transition network allowsthis to happen if the entire event of climbing Mt.Everest is treated as a single unit by making it a point,so that it can become a culmination in its own right.
Theperfect then delivers a rather different kind of conse-quent state.A process like work in the garden can be coerced bya perfect auxiliary in essentially the same way: theprocess of working, possibly associated with a culmina-tion point, is treated as a single unit.
This pointlikeentity can then be used as the starting point for theconstruction of a new nucleus, by treating it as aculmination in its own right, provided that there areassociated consequences.
As a result, a question like 24can only be used felicitously if John's working in thegarden was (for example) part of a prearranged plan, ora particular task John had to finish before somethingelse could happen:24.
#Has  John worked in the garden?This account also explains the infelicity of a sentencelike (25):25.
#They have married yesterday.The sentence could only refer to the consequences ofgetting married yesterday as opposed to getting marriedComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 19Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal Referencesome other time.
But most of what we think of asconsequences of events are independent of the specifictime at which the event occurred.
(In this respect heyare different from the preparatory processes, which areargued below to be implicated in certain futurates.)
If acertain situation is a consequence of an event takingplace at a particular time, then a perfect auxiliary maybe used to describe that event.
Thus a superstitiousperson believing that disastrous consequences are likelyto result from actions performed on an unpropitiousdate can say:26.
They have married on Friday the 13th!But even on Saturday the 14th, such a person stillcannot use (25), for it would not provide the essentialinformation about the date, thus flouting Grice's maximof quantity.The account given here also explains the well-knowncontrast between the infelicitous (27a) and its felicitouscounterpart, (b):27. a.
#Einstein has visited Princeton.b.
Princeton has been visited by Einstein.Whatever causal sequence of events and their conse-quences associated with the individual (Einstein) wetake to be the one we are currently talking about, (a)cannot be used felicitously to refer to a part of thatsequence since all such causal sequences seem to be todo with his enduring consciousness and are therefore bydefinition over.
However,  (b) can be uttered felicitouslyto refer to that same event because the relevant causalsequence must be one whose event and consequencesapply to the institution of Princeton University (whosecorporate consciousness endures) and many such con-sequences are still in train.The hypothesis we advance that the perfect has onlyone temporal meaning has a precedent in the work ofInoue 1979.
Moens 1987 has extended the presentanalysis to show that the distinctions McCawley 1971,1981 and Comrie 1976 draw between different kinds ofperfects (such as "perfect of current relevance," hotnews," "result ,"  etc.)
are nothing but different conse-quent states, depending on the nature of the verbalexpression and the particular core event it expresses,and the specific kind of episodes in which our generalknowledge tells us such core events typically occur.3.3 ADVERBIALSFor-adverbials can only be used felicitously with proc-ess expressions:28.
John worked in the garden for five hours.The resulting combination is a culminated-processexpression.
Evidence for this can be found in the easewith which an expression like (28) can be combined witha perfect, unlike its process counterpart:29.
#John has worked in the garden.John has worked in the garden for five hours.An expression like playing the sonata can readily occurwith a for-adverbial, suggesting that its basic category- -by which we mean the type assigned in the lexicon andinherited by the proposition in the absence of anycoercion-- is that of a process.
As a result, (30) carriesno implication that Sue finished playing the sonata:30.
Sue played the sonata for a few minutes.Another' route through the network is possible in orderto account for examples like (30): Sue's playing thesonata, like any other event, can be viewed as anunstructured point.
A transition to turn it into a processthen results in an iteration of occurrences at which Sueplays the sonata.
This route through the network seemsto be ruled out for (30) because it finds no support in ourknowledge about sonatas and about how long theytypically last.
It does result, however, in a likely inter-pretation for a sentence like31.
Sue played the sonata for about eight hours.A similar transition path is needed to make sense ofexamples like the following, in which a culmination iscoerced to become a point, and then in turn coerced tobecome a process by being iterated:32.
John arrived late at work for several days.The aspectual network would wrongly predict the ex-istence of a for-adverbial paradox, parallel to the imper-fective paradox, if for-adverbials were permitted tofreely coerce culminated processes (and hence culmina-tions) to be (not necessarily completed) processes.
Thetheory might seem to wrongly predict that (a) belowwould mean roughly the same as (b):33. a.
#Red Rum won the race for the first few min-utes.b.
Red Rum was winning the race.However, it is hard to find a context in which (a) meansanything at all.
The reason for this lies in the wayEnglish syntax and morphology control coercion in theaspectual transition network.
The transition from cul-mination to consequent s ate, for example, demands thepresence of a perfect.
Similarly, the arc from process toprogressive state may be traversed only if a progressiveauxiliary is present in the sentence.
For other transi-tions, such as the one resulting in an iterated process oran habitual state, English has no explicit markers andthey can be made freely.The transition from culminated process to process isnot one that can be made freely in English, but seems torequire the presence of a progressive -ing-form.
As aresult, turning the culmination in (33a) into a process byfirst adding a preparatory process and then stripping offthe culmination point is not allowed.
It is allowed in (b),but only because the example contains the requiredprogressive -ing-form.
The only other transition path inthe aspectual network that can account for the combi-nation of a culmination with a for-adverbial is the one20 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal Referencethat turns the culmination into a point, and then iteratesit to be a process.
This interpretation is not felicitous for(33a), either, given our knowledge about what consti-tutes winning a race.
However,  as with (32), it isacceptable for34.
Nikki Lauda won the Monaco Grand Prix for sev-eral years.Sometimes, a for-adverbial in combination with a cul-mination seems to describe a time period following theculmination rather than an iterated process:35.
John left the room for a few minutes.This adverbial is of a different kind, however, express-ing  intention rather than duration.
It is merely byaccident hat English uses the same device to conveythese different meanings.
In French or German, forexample, the two constructions are clearly distinct, asshown in the following translations of (35) and (32):36.
Jean a quitt6 la chambre pour quelques minutes.Johann verliess fiir einige Minuten das Zimmer.37.
Pendant des ann~es Jean est arriv6 en retard autravail.Jahrelang erschien Johann zu spat zur Arbeit.Not all aspectual/temporal adverbials expressing a timespan have the same functional type./n-adverbials,  forexample, coerce their input to be a culminated processexpression, as do related phrases like "it  took me twodays to .
.
.
.  "
This means that combination with aculmination expression requires a transition to the cul-minated process node.
According to the aspectual net-work in Figure 2 this transition is felicitous if thecontext allows a preparatory process to be associatedwith the culmination, as in (38):38.
Laura reached the top in two hours.The/n-adverbial  then defines the length of this prepa-ratory period.Since the arcs describe how one must be able to viewthe world for transitions to be made felicitously, it isobvious that there are expressions that will resist cer-tain changes.
For example, it will be hard to find acontext in which an/n-adverbial can be combined witha culmination expression like Harry accidentally spilledhis coffee, since it is hard to imagine a context in whicha preparatory process can be associated with an invol-untary act.
Indeed, sentences like the following onlyseem to be made tolerable to the extent that it ispossible to conjure up contexts in which the event onlyappears to be accidental:39.
In fifteen minutes, Harry accidentally spilled hiscoffee.A similar problem arises in connection with the follow-ing example:40.
John ran in a few minutes.The process expression John ran has to be changed intoa culminated-process expression before combinationwith the/n-adverbial is possible.
One way in which thenetwork in Figure 2 will permit the change from aprocess to a culminated process is if the context allowsa culmination point to be associated with the processitself.
General world knowledge makes this rather hardfor a sentence like John ran, except in the case whereJohn habitually runs a particular distance, such as ameasured mile.
If the /n-adverbial had conveyed aspecific duration, such as in four minutes, then theanalysis would make sense, as Dowty has pointed out.However, the unspecific in a few minutes continues toresist this interpretation.However, another oute is also possible for (40): theprocess of John running can be made into an atomicpoint, and thence into a culmination in its own right.This culmination can then acquire a preparatory processof its own--which we can think of as preparing to run--to become the culminated process which the adverbialrequires.
This time, there is no conflict with the contentof the adverbial, so this reading is the most accessible ofthe two.Since the transition network includes loops, it willallow us to define indefinitely complex temporal/aspect-ual categories, like the one evoked by the followingsentence:41.
It took me two days to play the "Minute Waltz"in less than sixty seconds for more than an hour.The process expression play the Minute Waltz is co-erced by the /n-adverbial into a culminated process,including a culmination of finishing playing the MinuteWaltz.
Combination with the for-adverbial requires thisexpression to be turned into a process--the only possi-ble route through the network being that through thepoint node and iterating.
The resulting culminated-process expression describes the iterated process ofplaying the Minute Waltz in less than sixty seconds aslasting for more than an hour.
The expression it tookme .
.
.
.
finally, is like an /n-adverbial in that it islooking for a culminated-process expression to combinewith.
It would find one in the expression to play theMinute Waltz in less than sixty seconds for more thanan hour, but combination is hampered by the fact thatthere is a conflict in the length of time the adverbialsdescribe.
In the case of (41), the whole culminatedprocess is instead viewed as a culmination in its ownright (via the path through the point node).
Knowledgeconcerning such musical feats then supplies an appro-priate preparatory process that we can think of aspracticing.
The phrase it took me two days then definesthe temporal extent of this preparatory process neededto reach the point at which repeatedly playing that pieceof music so fast for such a considerable l ngth of timebecame a newly acquired skill.
We assume that theordering of these successive coercions, like othersComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 21Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal Referenceinduced by the perfect and the progressive, are (notnecessarily unambiguously) under the control of syntax.4 TENSE AND TEMPORAL FOCUS4.1 TENSEThe aspects and temporal/aspectual adverbials consid-ered above all act to modify or change the aspectualclass of the core proposition, subject to the limitsimposed by the network in Figure 2, and by contextualknowledge.
However, tenses and certain other varietiesof adverbial adjuncts have a rather different character.Tense is widely regarded as an anaphoric ategory,requiring a previously established temporal referent.The referent for a present ense is usually the time ofspeech, but the referent for a past tense must beexplicitly established.
This is done by using a secondtype of "temporal" adjunct, such as once upon a time,at five o'clock last Saturday, while I was cleaning myteeth, or when I woke up this morning.Most accounts of the anaphoric nature of tense haveinvoked Reichenbach's (1947) trinity of underlyingtimes and his concept of the positional use of thereference time.
Under these accounts, temporal ad-juncts establish a referent to which the reference time ofa main clause and subsequent same-tensed clauses mayattach or refer, in much the same way that variousspecies of full noun phrases establish referents forpronouns and definite anaphors (see foreword).Reichenbach's account is somewhat inexplicit as faras extended, noninstantaneous events go.
In particular,he makes it look as though the reference time is alwaysan instant.
However, we believe that the followingaccount is the obvious generalisation f his and proba-bly what he intended anyway.In Reichenbach's system a simple past tense of anatomic event is such that reference t ime (R) and eventt ime (E) are identical, while progressives and perfectsare such that R and E are not identical.
3 The onlycoherent generalisation f his scheme to durative ventsis to maintain this pattern and assume that R and E arecoextensive for an utterance like:42.
Harry ran a mile.It follows that R may be an extended period (cf.Steedman 1982).
R may also be an extended period fora state such as a progressive, although in this case thecorresponding event time is still quite separate, ofcourse.What is the nature of this referent, and how is itestablished?
The anaphoric quality of tense has oftenbeen specifically compared to pronominal anaphora (cf.McCawley 1971; Partee 1973; Isard 1974).
However, inone respect, the past tense does not behave like apronoun: use of a pronoun such as "she" does notchange the referent o which a subsequent use of thesame pronoun may refer, whereas using a past tensemay.
In the following example, the temporal referencepoint fi)r the successive conjoined main clauses eemsto move on from the time originally established by theadjunct:43.
At exactly five o'clock, Harry walked in, sat down,and took off his boots.Nor is this just a matter of pragmatic inference; otherorders of the clauses are not allowed:44.
#At exactly five o'clock, Harry took off his boots,sat down and walked in.This fact has caused theorists such as Dowty 1986,Hinrichs 1984, and Partee 1984 to stipulate that thereference time autonomously advances during a narra-tive.
However, such a stipulation (besides creatingproblems for the theory vis-d-vis those narratives wherereference time seems not to advance) seems to beunnecessary, since the amount by which the referencetime advances still has to be determined by context.
Theconcept of a nucleus that was invoked above to explainthe varieties of aspectual categories offers us exactlywhat we need to explain both the fact that the referencetime advances and by how much.
We simply need toassume that a main-clause event such as Harry walkedin is interpreted as an entire nucleus, complete withconsequent s ate, for by definition the consequent s atecomprises whatever other events were contingent uponHarry walking in, including whatever he did next.Provided that the context (or the hearer's assumptionsabout the world) supports the idea that a subsequentmain clause identifies this next contingent event, then itwill provide the temporal referent for that main clause.If the context does not support his interpretation, thenthe temporal referent will be unchanged, as in:45.
At five o'clock, my car started and the rain stopped.In its ability to refer to temporal entities that have notbeen explicitly mentioned, but whose existence hasmerely been implied by the presence of an entity thathas been mentioned, tense appears more like a definiteNP (e.g., the music in the following example) than likea pronoun, as Webber 1987 points out.46.
I went to a party last night.
The music was wonder-ful.4.2 WHEN-CLAUSESThe definite nature of tense together with the notion ofthe nucleus as the knowledge structure that tensedexpressions conjure up explain the apparent ambiguityof when-clauses with which this paper began.
A when-clause behaves rather like one of those phrases that areused to explicitly change topic, such as and your fatherin the following example (cf.
Isard 1975):47.
And your father, how is he?22 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal ReferenceA when-clause does not require a previously establishedtemporal focus, but rather brings into focus a noveltemporal referent whose unique identifiability in thehearer's memory is presupposed.
Again, the focusedtemporal referent is associated with an entire nucleus,and again an event main clause can refer to any part ofthis structure conditional on support from general ordiscourse specific knowledge.
For example, consideragain Example 1 with which we began (repeated here):48.
When they built the 39th Street b r idge .
.
.a .
.
.
.
a local architect drew up the plans.b .
.
.
.
they used the best materials.c .
.
.
.
they solved most of their traffic problems.Once the core event of the when-clause has beenidentified in memory, the hearer has two alternativeroutes to construct a complete nucleus:a) to decompose the core event into a nucleus and tomake a transition to one of the components, uch asthe preparatory activity of building or to the conse-quent state of having built the bridge; orb) to treat the entire event as a single culmination andcompose it into a nucleus with whatever preparationand consequences the context provides for the activ-ity of building a bridge, and to make the transition toeither one of those~Either way, once the nucleus is established, the refer-ence time of the main clause has to be situated some-where within it--the exact location being determined byknowledge of the entities involved and the episode inquestion.
So in Example 48a, the entire culminatedprocess of building the bridge tends to become a culmi-nation (via a path in Figure 2 that passes through thepoint node), which is associated in a nucleus withpreparations for, and consequences of, the entire busi-ness, as in Figure 5:they prepare they have builtto build the bridgeI l l l l l l l l l l / l l / l / l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l lIthey buildthe bridgeFigure 5.The drawing up of  the plans is then, for reasons to dowith knowledge of the world, situated in the preparatoryphase.In Example b, in contrast, people tend to see thebuilding of the bridge as decomposed into a quitedifferent preparatory process of building, a quite differ-ent culmination of completing the bridge and someconsequences that we take to be also subtly distinctfrom those in the previous case as was argued in Section3.2.
The resulting nucleus is given in Figure 6.
The useof the best materials is then, as in (a), situated in thepreparatory process---but it is a different one this time.they build they have completedthe bridgeI / / / / / / / / / / / / I / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /Jthey completethe bridgeFigure 6.Example c is like (a) in giving rise to the nucleus inFigure 5, but pragmatics seems to demand that the mainclause be situated somewhere in the consequent s ate ofbuilding the bridge.Thus a main clause event can potentially be situatedanywhere along this nucleus, subject o support fromknowledge about the precise events involved.
But Ex-ample 2, repeated here, is still strange, because it is sohard to think of any relation that is supported in thisway:49.
#When my car broke down, the sun set.The when-clause defines a nucleus, consisting of what-ever process we can think of as leading up to the car'sbreakdown, the breakdown itself, and its possible oractual consequences.
It is not clear where along thisnucleus the culmination of the sun set could be situated:it is not easy to imagine that it is a functional part of thepreparatory process typically associated with a break-down, and it is similarly hard to imagine that it can be apart of the consequent s ate, so under most imaginablecircumstances, the utterance remains bizarre.The constraints when places on possible interpreta-tions of the relation between subordinate and mainclause are therefore quite strong.
First, general andspecific knowledge about the event described in thewhen-clause has to support he association of a com-plete nucleus with it.
Secondly, world knowledge alsohas to support the contingency relation between theevents in subordinate and main clauses.
As a result,many constructed examples ound strange or are.
con-sidered to be infelicitous, because too much context hasto be imported to make sense of them.In all of the cases discussed so far, the main clausehas been an event of some variety.
With stative mainclauses, as in the following examples, the interpretationstrategy is somewhat different.
Statives how no sign ofbeing related under what we are calling contingency,presumably because contingency is by definition arelation over events.
In particular, they do not enter ina causal or contingent relation with a when-clause theway corresponding sentences with events as mainComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 23Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal Referenceclauses do.
They therefore merely predicate that thestate in question holds at the time of the culmination:50.
When they built that bridge?
.
.
I was still a young lad.?
.
.
my grandfather had been dead forseveral years.?
.
.
my aunt was having an affair with themilkman??
.
.
my father used to play squash.However, a stative main clause can be turned into anevent expression; in that case, a contingency relation ispredicated to exist between the two events?
Thus thefollowing example seems to involve an inceptive vent,which begins the state of knowing:51.
When Pete came in, I knew that something waswrong.Such changes of type are similar to others discussedabove but are not treated in the present paper.5 REFERRING TO FUTURE EVENTSBennett and Partee 1972, speaking of the differencebetween the present perfect and the simple past, remarkthat one might expect a similar distinction among futuretenses?
One could conceive of a construction parallel tothe perfect, whose event ime would be in the future andwhose reference time would be the time of speech,conveying a notion of current relevance; and therecould be a construction parallel to the simple past, withboth reference and event times in the future.
Bennettand Partee suggest hat English is not as one wouldexpect and follow Reichenbach in saying that these twofunctions are conflated in a single device, the modalfuture using will.
Although it is true that the modalfuture shares features of both perfect and simple past, itis nevertheless also the case that there are two classesof futurate xpressions, with properties parallel to eachof the two past expressions.The candidate for the role parallel to the perfect is theso-called futurate progressive (Smith 1983):52.
Robert was working on the speech project until hegot a job offer from Sussex?As Dowty 1979, 1986 argues, examples like (52) can beboth a past imperfective progressive (answering a ques-tion about Robert's past activities) and a past futurateprogressive (answering a question about Robert's plansat some past time and meaning something like Robertwas going to work on the speech project, but he didn't).However, the difference between the two interpreta-tions seems to be a matter of pragmatic world knowl-edge rather than sense-semantics, orresponding to thetwo different ways of constructing a nucleus (cf.
Section4).
The imperfective progressive decomposes the coreevent into a nucleus and makes a transition to thepreparatory process, indicating that it is in progress atthe time of reference?
The futurate progressive, throughthe use of an adverbial signaling an event ime posteriorto the reference, forces the whole event o be treated asa single unit, which is then composed into a newnucleus.
The progressive then indicates that the prepa-ration leading up to the event as a whole was in progressat the time of reference (as usual, without asserting thatthat event or even its onset was ever reached).
Thefuturate progressive thus resembles the perfect in say-ing something about a (past or present) reference timethat is entirely separate from the event time.The candidate for the role parallel to the simple pastamong the futurates is to be found in the simple, ornon-modal future, sometimes (confusingly) called thetenseness future:53.
He leaves on Tuesday.While the futurate progressive shares with the perfectthe property of needing no nonpresent adverbial, thenonmodal future cannot be used in this way.
Forexample, in response to a question about the currentstate of affairs as specific as Why are you being so rudeto your boss these days?
or as general as What's new?,one may respond with an unanchored progressive (54a),much as with a perfect (54b).
But one may not replywith an unanchored nonmodal future (54c), although ananchored one (54d) is quite all right?54.
a. I am leaving.b?
I have handed in my notice.c.
*I leave?d.
I leave next month?In its requirement for an established non-present refer-ence time, the nonmodal future resembles the pasttense?
The resemblance (which was noted in Leech1971) is supported by the following further observa-tions.
A when question concerning the past progressiveis ambiguous, reflecting the separation of reference timeand event time.
By contrast, the nonmodal future doesnot really seem to occur in the past at all, except ofcourse in reported or indirect speech; it just becomesindistinguishable from the simple past.
It follows that(55) carl be answered with (a) or (b).
But (56) can only beanswered with (a), not with (b).55.
When were you leaving?a?
Last week (ambiguous)?b.
Next week.56.
When did you leave?a.
Last week (unambiguous).b.
*Next week.These similarities uggest the symmetry depicted infor-mally in Figure 7 between the perfect, the simple past,the futurate progressive, and the nonmodal future.
Thehatching again informally indicates the extent of theconsequent state and the preparatory process associ-ated with the perfect and the futurate progressive,24 Comlmtat iona l  L ingu is t i cs ,  Vo lume 14 ,  Number  2 ,  June  1988Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal Referencerespectively.
That is not to imply that the two are thesame sort of entity: they are both states, but of adifferent kind.
The perfect is a consequent state; thefuturate progressive is a state derived from a prepara-tory process.
This difference is indicated by the pres-ence of a defined upper bound on the latter.
TheReichenbach diagram in Figure 7 for the nonmodalfuture is of course the one that is ascribed (traditionallyand by Bennett and Partee) to the modal future, aconstruction to which we will return in a moment.Before doing so there are some problems remaining tobe disposed of.If the futurate progressive is the true counterpart ofthe perfect,why is it not subject o the same restrictionagainst nonpresent adverbials?57.
a. John is leaving (tomorrow).b.
John has left (*yesterday).The answer lies in the differences between preparatoryprocesses and consequent states, rather than in theaspects themselves.
In both cases the adverbial mustassociate with the core event of leaving rather than thepresent reference time.
Thus (a) concerns the prepara-tions for leaving tomorrow (as opposed to some othertime), while (b) concerns the consequences of leavingyesterday (as opposed to some other time).
As waspointed out in Section 3.2, most of what we think of asconsequences of events are independent of absolutetime.
This makes it hard to think of consequencesassociated with John's leaving yesterday as opposed tothose associated with John's leaving generally.
Prepa-ratory processes do not share this property: the prepa-ratory process associated with John's leaving tomorrowis conceivably very different from that associated withJohn's leaving next week.PASTEI///////////////////I I IS,R E,R S(perfect) (simple past)John has left.
John left.FUTURATEEI I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I l iI I IS,R S E,R(futurate progressive) (nonmodal future)John is leaving (tomorrow).
John leaves tomorrow.Figure 7.One other difference between the futurate categoriesand the past categories hould be mentioned.
If thenonmodal future is the correlate of the simple past, itshould be possible to have nonmodal futures of per-fects, just as with pasts of perfects.
But Vetter 1973 haspointed out that the following is odd:58.
The Dodgers have finished for the season nextSunday.Nevertheless, such futurates do appear in the context offuturate temporal adjuncts, as in the following example:59.
Once the Dodgers play the Red Sox next Sunday,they have finished for the season.The other English futurate xpressions also fit into thescheme of Figure 7.
The "be going to" constructiontypified by60.
I am going to buy a guitar.clearly belongs with the progressives, being distin-guished from them by the nature of the processes that itimplicates (see Leech 1971; Palmer 1974; Wekker 1976,and references therein).
The "be to" construction typ-ified by61.
I am to be Queen of the Mayalso seems to belong with the progressives, although itsmodal character has been remarked by Leech andPalmer.Finally, where does the modal future fit into thisscheme?
A full analysis of the modals would go beyondthe scope of this paper, so the following remarks will besketchy.
The modal future clearly has a reference timenot coincident with speech time, like the nonmodalfuture but unlike the futurate progressive.
Neverthe-less, Bennett and Partee are quite right that the modalfuture says something about the present as well as thepast.
The source of its relevance to the time of speechmust therefore have to do with the relation betweenmodals and the time of speech.
We make the followingtentative suggestion about this relation.Palmer 1974 pointed out a systematic ambiguitywithin the epistemic modals as between a futurate and astrictly present meaning, and Steedman 1977 relatedthis to the similar ambiguity of a present-tensed sen-tence.
What needs to be added seems to be the idea thatthese (suspiciously untensed looking) modals defineproperties of the time of speech (as is implied by thespeech-act theoretic analysis of Boyd and Thorne 1969)and do not of themselves have anything to do withreference time and event time, unlike the true tensedand aspectual uxiliaries.
More specifically, will says ofthe time of speech that it leads the speaker to infer aproposition (possibly but not necessarily one concern-ing the future).
Must says something very similar butseems to leave the speaker out of it and says that theproposition follows from the state of the world at speechtime.
May says that the proposition is permitted by theComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 25Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal Referencestate of the world at speech time.
These senses areexhibited below.62.
a.
You will be my long-lost brother Willy.a'.
You will marry a tall dark stranger.b.
You must be my long-lost brother Willy.b'.
You must marry a tall dark stranger.c.
You may (or may not) be my long-lost brother,Willy.c'.
You may (or may not) marry a tall darkstranger.But, as has often been suggested before, the futureepistemic modals have nothing to do with future tense inthe strict sense of the word.
46 TOWARD A FORMAL REPRESENTATIONWe have argued in this paper that a principled andunified semantics of natural-language categories liketense, aspect, and aspectual/temporal adverbials re-quires an ontology based on contingency rather thantemporality.
The notion of nucleus plays a crucial role inthis ontology.
The process of temporal reference in-volves reference to the appropriate part of a nucleus,where appropriateness is a function of the inherentmeaning of the core expression, of the coercive natureof co-occurring linguistic expressions, and of particularand general knowledge about the area of discourse.The identification of the correct ontology is also avital preliminary to the construction and management oftemporal databases.
Effective exchange of informationbetween people and machines is easier if the data-structures that are used to organise the information inthe machine correspond in a natural way to the concep-tual structures people use to organise the same infor-mation.
In fact, the penalties for a bad fit betweendata-structures and human concepts are usually crip-pling for any attempt to provide natural anguage inter-faces for database systems.
Information extracted fromnatural-language text can only be stored to the extentthat it fits the preconceived formats, usually resulting inloss of information.
Conversely, such data-structurescannot easily be queried using natural language if thereis a bad fit between the conceptual structure implicit inthe query and the conceptual structure of the database.The contingency-based ontology that we are advo-cating here has a number of implications for the con-struction and management of such temporal databases.Rather than a homogeneous database of dated points orintervals, we should partition it into distinct sequencesof causally or otherwise contingently related sequencesof events, which we might call episodes, each leading tothe satisfaction of a particular goal or intention.
Thispartition will quite incidentally define a partial temporalordering on the events, but the primary purpose of suchsequences i more related to the notion of a plan ofaction or an explanation of an event's occurrence thanto anything to do with time itself.
It follows that only26events that are contingently related necessarily havewell-defined temporal relations in memory.A first attempt to investigate this kind of system wasreported in Steedman 1982, using a program that veri-fied queries against a database structured according tosome of the principles outlined above; a more recentextension of this work was reported in Moens 1987.Even~s are stored as primitives in the database, possiblybut not necessarily associated with a time point.
Ex-tended events are represented in terms of a pair ofpunctual events, identifying their starting point as wellas the point at which they end (in the case of processes)or culminate (in the case of culminated processes).Apart from the obvious accessibility relations oftemporal precedence and simultaneity, events can alsoenter into the relation of contingency introduced above.It is significant that the relation used in the implemen-tation is identical to the notion of causality used byLansky 1986 in an entirely different problem area.
Shedeveloped a knowledge representation scheme for usein planners in which events are reified and modeled withan explicit representation f their temporal as well ascausal relations.
In this scheme, a mechanism is pro-vided for structuring events into so-called "locations ofactivity", the boundaries of which are boundaries of"cau~;al" access.
As a result, two events with no causalrelation between them cannot belong to the same loca-tion of activity--as in the episodes introduced above.Because we follow Lansky in making the contin-gency relation intransitive, we avoid certain notoriousproblems in the treatment of when-clauses and perfects,which arise because the search for possible conse-quences of an event has to be restricted to thefirst eventon the chain of contingencies.
Thus, when (3) is as-serted, repeated here as (63a) and (b), it would be wrongto infer (c):63. a.
When John left, Sue cried.b.
When Sue cried, her mother got upset.c.
When John left, Sue's mother got upset.The reason is exactly the same as the reason that itwould be wrong to infer that Sue's mother got upsetbecause John left, and has nothing to do with the purelytemporal relations of these events.
It should also benoted that the notion of contingency used here (in linewith Lansky's proposals) is weaker than the notion ofcausality used in other representation schemes (forexample, that of McDermott 1982 or Allen 1984): ifEvent A stands in a contingent relation to Event B, thenan occurrence of A will not automatically ead to anoccmrence of B: John laying the foundations of thehouse is a prerequisite for or enables him to build thewalls and roof, but does not cause it in the moretraditional sense of the word and does not automaticallyor inevitably lead to him building the walls.The transitions in the network are implemented asinference procedures in the database.
Answering aquery involving the aspectual auxiliaries and adverbialsComl~utational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal Referencediscussed before consists of finding a matching eventdescription in the database and checking its aspectualtype; if the event description is found not to have therequired aspectual type, it can be changed by means ofthe inference procedures, provided such a change issupported by knowledge in the database about he eventin question.7 CONCLUSIONMany of the apparent anomalies and ambiguities thatplague current semantic accounts of temporal expres-sions in natural language stem from the assumption thata linear model of time is the one that our linguisticcategories are most directly related to.
A more princi-pled semantics is possible on the assumption that thetemporal categories of tense, aspect, aspectual adver-bials, and of propositions themselves refer to a mentalrepresentation of events that is structured on other thanpurely temporal principles, and to which the notion of anucleus, or contingently related sequence of prepara-tory process, goal event, and consequent state, iscentral.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe thank Jon Oberlander, Ethel Schuster, and BonnieLynn Webber for reading and commenting upon drafts.Parts of the research were supported by: an EdinburghUniversity Graduate Studentship; an ESPRIT grant(project 393) to CCS, Univ.
Edinburgh; a Sloan Foun-dation grant to the Cognitive Science Program, Univ.Pennsylvania; and NSF grant IRI-10413 A02, AROgrant DAA6-29- 84K-006f, and DARPA grant N0014-85-K0018 to CIS, Univ.
Pennsylvania.
An earlier ver-sion of some parts of this paper was presented as Moensand Steedman 1987.REFERENCESAit-Kaci, H. 1984 A Lattice Theoretic Approach to ComputationBased on a Calculus of Partially Ordered Type Structures.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Pennsylvania.Allen, J. F. 1984 Towards a General Theory of Action and Time.Artificial Intelligence 23:123-154.Bennett, M. and Partee, B.
1972 Toward the Logic of Tense andAspect in English.
Indiana University Linguistics Club, Blooming-ton, IN.Boyd, J. and Thorne, J.
1969 The Semantics of Modal Verbs.
Journalof Linguistics 5:57-74.Comrie, B.
1976 Aspect: An Introduction to the Study of VerbalAspect and Related Problems.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, England.Dowty, D. 1979 Word Meaning and Montague Grammar.
D. Reidel,Dordrecht, W. Germany.Dowty, D. 1986 The Effects of Aspectual Class on the TemporalStructure of Discourse: Semantics or Pragmatics?.
Linguistics andPhilosophy 9:37--61.Hinrichs, E. 1986 Temporal Anaphora in Discourses of English.Linguistics and Philosophy 9:63-82.Inoue, K. 1979 An Analysis of the English Present Perfect.
Linguistics17:221-222, 561-590.Isard, S. D. 1974 What would you have done i f .
.
.
TheoreticalLinguistics 1:233-255.Isard, S. D. 1975 Changing the Context.
In Keenan, E.
(ed.)
FormalSemantics of Natural Language.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, England.Isard, S. and Longuet-Higgins, C. 1973 Modal Tic-tac-toe.
In Bogdan,R.
J. and Niiniluoto, I.
(eds.)
Logic, Language and Probability.Reidel, Dordrecht, W. Germany:189-195.Lansky, A. L. 1986 A Representation f Parallel Activity Based onEvents, Structure, and Causality.
In Workshop on Planning andReasoning about Action.
Timberline Lodge, Mount Hood, OR:50-86.Leech, G. N. 1971 Meaning and the English Verb.
Longman, Lon-don.McCarthy, M. 1974 Sons of the Morning.
In The Seventeenth Degree.Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, New York, NY.McCawley, J. D. 1971 Tense and Time Reference in English.
InFillmore, C. and Langendoen, T.
(eds.)
Studies in LinguisticSemantics, Holt, Rinehart and Winston, New York, NY: 96-113.McCawley, J. D. 1981 Notes on the English Present Perfect.
Austra-lian Journal of Linguistics 1:81-90.McDermott, D. 1982 A Temporal Logic for Reasoning about Pro-cesses and Plans.
Cognitive Science 6:101-155.Moens, M. 1987 Tense, Aspect and Temporal Reference.
Ph.D.thesis.
Centre for Cognitive Science, University of Edinburgh,Edinburgh, Scotland.Moens, M. and Steedman, M. 1986 Temporal Information and NaturalLanguage Processing.
Research Paper/RP-2.
Center for CognitiveScience, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland.Moens, M. and Steedman, M. 1987 Temporal Ontology in NaturalLanguage.
In Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.
Stanford University,Stanford, CA: 1-7.Palmer, F. 1974 The English Verb.
Longman, London.Partee, B.
1973 Some Structural Analogies Between Tenses andPronouns in English Journal of Philosophy 70:601-609.Partee, B.
1984 Nominal and Temporal Anaphora.
Linguistics andPhilosophy 7:243-286.Passonneau, R. J.
1987 Situations and Intervals.
In Proceedings of the25th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA: 16-24.Reichenbach, H. 1947 Elements of Symbolic Logic.
Macmillan,London.Ritchie, G. D. 1979 Temporal Clauses in English.
Theoretical Linguis-tics 6:87-115.Sag, I.
1973 On the State of Progress on Progressives and Statives.
InBailey, C. and Shuy, R.
(eds.)
New Ways of Analyzing Variationin English.
Georgetown University Press, Washington, DC: 83-95.Smith, C. S. 1983 States and Dynamics.
Language 59:47%502.Steedman, M. J.
1977 Verbs, Time and Modality.
Cognitive Science 1:216-234.Steedman, M. J.
1982 Reference to Past Time.
In Jarvella, R. andKlein, W.
(eds.).
Speech, Place andAction.
John Wiley and Sons,New York, NY: 125-157.Vendler, Z.
1967 Verbs and Times.
Linguistics in Philosophy.
CornellUniversity Press, Ithaca, NY: chap.
4, 97-121.Verkuyl, H. J.
1972 On the Compositional Nature of the Aspects.
D.Reidel, Dordrecht.Vetter, D. 1973 Someone Solves This Problem Tomorrow.
LinguisticInquiry 4:104-108.Webber, B. L. 1987 The Interpretation of Tense in Discourse.
InProceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics.
Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA:147-154.Wekker, H. 1976 The Expression of Future Time in ContemporaryBritish English.
North Holland, Amsterdam.Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 27Marc Moens and Mark Steedman Temporal Ontology and Temporal ReferenceNOTES1.
Readers familiar with Vendler's work will realise that we havechanged his terminology.
We have done so both for notationalconvenience and to avoid the considerable confusion that hasarisen concerning the precise meaning of the old terms.
The newnomenclature is also intended to reflect the fact, also noted byDowty (1979), that Vendler's "accomplishments," which we willrefer to as "culminated processes," are composite events, consist-ing of a process which is associated with a particular culminationpoint.2.
A similar tripartite event structure is proposed in Passonneau(1987, cf.
this volume).3.
In attributing this view to Reichenbach, we are assuming that thereis an oversight or a misprint in his diagram for the past progressive,p.
290: the diagram seems to suggest that R and E are coextensive,whereas what is intended is that the punctual reference time isincluded in an extended event time, as in his diagram for thepresent progressive.
We also ignore here one of his analyses of themodal future, which we regard as incorrect (cf.
Section 5).4.
It is ~.n implication of such an analysis that there should be no trulypast w~rsion of epistemically modal propositions.
Where pasttense s of the epistemic modals do occur, they must, like the pastnonntodal future, always be either counterfactual or indirect orrepolted speech.
This seems to be the case.
Mary McCarthy(1974), speaking of David Halberstam's use in The Best and theBrigt~test of "what she could only describe as the Future Past," asini.
~,1: a dinner party after the Bay of Pigs Bundy would telll r i ends .
.
.andii.
The power and prestige that the McNamara years wouldbr ing .
.
.called it "that awful tense, seeming to endow the author withprophetic powers," signifying "a future already plangent when ithas not yet happened."
The source of that awful power (which alsoaccntes to the past enses of the nonmodal future and, as McCarthyalso remarks, the modal-like "be to" construction), is of course theshifting of the speech or consciousness time into the past, ratherthan the reference time.28 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988
