FOREWORDBonnie Lynn WebberDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104-63891 INTRODUCTIONThe phenomena of tense and aspect have long been ofinterest o linguists and philosophers.
Linguists havetried to describe their interesting morphological, syn-tactic, and semantic properties in the various languagesof the world, while philosophers have tried to charac-terize formally their truth conditions.
(For some recentcollections of papers, the reader is referred to Tedeschiand Zaenen 1981; Hopper 1982; Dahl 1985; and LoCas-io and Vet 1985.)
Recently, computational linguistshave joined in the act, their interest being sparked by adesire to characterize--at the level of processing--howwe understand and describe complex events in a chang-ing world.
Here, two kinds of questions converge--oneconcerning the problem of encoding event descriptions,the other to do with manipulating references to events.In approaching the first question, researchers of alllinguistic stripes (computational linguists, philosophersof language, psycholinguists, and linguists of the "un-marked case") have begun to turn their attention fromhow languages convey information about individuals (orsets of individuals) and their properties to how theyconvey information about events and situations chang-ing over time.
In approaching the second question,computational linguists have become interested in de-veloping systems that can converse with users aboutevents and situations (e.g., for planning) or can processaccounts of events and situations (e.g., for summarizingand/or integrating messages).
Last year, following theappearance of a number of papers on this topic at the1987 Conference of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics at Stanford, it was suggested that a specialissue of Computational Linguistics hould be devotedto the topic of tense and aspect, in order to examinewhat appeared to be an emerging consensus on thesequestions within the computational-linguistics commu-nity.
This issue is the result of that suggestion, andmany of the papers collected below constitute xten-sions of the papers presented at the Stanford meeting.The papers demonstrate both practical and theoreti-cal advances in our understanding of tense and aspect.With respect to those approaches that have been imple-mented (cf.
Hinrichs, Passonneau), the papers demon-strate how far we have come in developing eneralmethods for extracting and representing event-relatedinformation from text and embedding those methods inquestion-answering and text-processing systems.
Withrespect o theoretical issues involved in how we under-stand and describe vents in a changing world (a subjectof all the papers included here), the papers demonstratethe significance of ideas of processing, knowledge rep-resentation, and common-sense r asoning drawn fromartificial intelligence and computational linguistics.
It isthese ideas that are computation's unique contributionto our understanding of tense and aspect, augmentingexisting contributions from linguistics and philosophy.2 REICHENBACH'S TYPOLOGY OF TENSEMany of the papers collected here build upon HansReichenbach's 1947 account of the underlying structureof the English tense system.
Reichenbach started fromthe observation that the collection of English tenses 1could not be explained either (a) simply in terms of theabsolute time of an event or (b) in terms of the relativetime of that event o the (purported) time of utterance ofthe tensed clause.
Rather, he proposed that the inter-pretation of tense requires three separate sense-semantic entities: point of speech (S), point of the event(E), and point of reference (R).
2 The interpretations of Sand E are self-evident.
R is the time "talked about" or"focused upon" (or, equivalently, the "temporal per-spective" from which the described event is viewed).
Itmay be the same as S, as in present perfect (Examplela) or simple present ense (Example lb).1. a. John has climbed Aconcagua nd Mt.
McKin-ley .
(E<R= S)b. John is in the lounge.
(E = R = S)(Here, "<"  indicates "temporally prior to".)
It may bethe same as E, as in the simple past tense (Example 2a)or simple future tense (Example 2b).2. a. John climbed Aconcagua.
(E = R < S)b. John will climb Aconcagua.
(S < E = R)It may be in between E and S, as in the past perfect:3.
John had climbed Aconcagua.
(E < R < S)or following both E and S (looking back to them), as inthe future perfect:4.
John will have climbed Mt.
McKinley.
(S < E < R)Reichenbach's account is imprecise in some cases,incomplete in some, and only seductively suggestive inothers.
While all the authors in this volume have taken.Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 1Bonnie Webber ForewordReichenbach's account as their starting point, theydiffer in what they attempt to flesh out, pin down, orcorrect, and in the details of how they do so.
Neverthe-less, there is a remarkable degree of agreement acrossthese accounts.
If together they do not yet provide acomplete solution to the problem of how we understandand describe events, they may still comprise a newstage from which further progress may be made.3 OVERVIEWThere are five papers included in this issue: by ErhardHinrichs (now at the University of Illinois), by MarcMoens and Mark Steedman (University of Edinburgh),by Sasha Nakhimovsky (Colgate University), by BeckyPassoneau (UNISYS) and by myself (University ofPennsylvania).
All the papers have gone through exten-sive revision in response to internal exchange among theauthors, in addition to the usual process of external review.Hinrichs describes a meaning-representation lan-guage (MRL) for temporal expressions based on higher-order Intensional Logic, that is being used in theJANUS system, a natural-language understanding andgeneration system under joint development at BBNLaboratories and ISI.
He shows how this MRL, whichemploys temporal indices based on Reichenbach'spoints of speech, event, and reference, avoids problemsthat classical tense logics have with even basic temporaladverbials like "yesterday", with negation, with quan-tification, and with multiple-clause ntences describingmultiple events.
He also shows how this MRL permitsaccurate description of discourse entities evoked bytensed clauses, for use in resolving anaphoric nounphrases (NPs) and other context-sensitive expressions.Moens and Steedman propose and argue for a tripar-tite ontology of events based more on notions of causa-tion and consequence than on purely tempor~d primi-tives.
Their proposal allows a simple solution to whathas been called "the imperfective paradox", to thesemantics of "when" clauses, and to the changingsense of an event description as various temporal ad-verbials are added to it.
They also propose Reichen-bachian-style analyses for the various "future tenses"in English those constructions u ed to describe ventsthat are expected, possible, or intended subsequent tospeech time.
In that, they fill in a gap in Reichenbach'sown analysis, which considers only the simple futuretense and is equivocal even on that.Nakhimovsky describes how our common-senseknowledge of events manifests itself in language andhow this knowledge isused in understanding arratives.Nakhimovsky discusses three types of common-senseknowledge involved in how we describe events andhow, in turn, we understand event descriptions: knowl-edge of the internal structuring of events, knowledge oftheir duration and the durations of their various sub-parts, and knowledge of how events can be viewed.
(The first and third types of knowledge link with discus-sions in Moens and Steedman and in Passonneau.)
At apractical level, Nakhimovsky shows how such knowl-edge could be stored in the lexicon.Pa,;sonneau describes temporal processing in PUN-DIT, a natural-language text ur~derstanding system de-veloped by researchers at UNISYS.
Its purview isclauses that describe actual events such as are fre-quently found in status reports.
In particular, it ad-dresses the problem of processing the distinctive con-tribufions of those linguistic elements used in describingevents of different types.
For each clause describing anactual event, Passonneau characterizes the temporalstructure of that event and its temporal location vis-h-vis speech time or, when relevant, the event describedin an adjoining temporal adverbial.
Like Moens andSteedman, Passonneau employs a tripartite structurefor events in characterizing temporal structure.
Thispaper makes beautifully clear many of the factorsinvolved in correctly characterizing the internal tempo-ral structure of events.Finally, I focus on the discourse-related properties oftensed clauses and show that they are very similar tothose of anaphoric definite NPs.
Specifically, theydepend on our knowledge of plausible relations betweenevents (as anaphoric definite NPs depend on our knowl-edge of plausible relations between entities), and theyrespond in somewhat similar fashion to a listener'sperceptions ofdiscourse structure.
In demonstrating theformer dependency, I employ a tripartite vent struc-ture drawn from the work of Moens and Steedman andfrom Passonneau.
This paper contributes to a long-standing discussion in linguistics as to whether tenseshould be classified as an anaphor, as well as identifyingadditional knowledge and mechanisms needed for proc-essing reports and other narrative texts.REFERENCESDahl, O.
1985 Tense and Aspect Systems.
Basil Blackwell, Oxford,England.Hopper, P. 1982 Tense-aspect: between semantics and pragmatics.John Benjamins, Amsterdam.Dowty, D., ed.
1986 Linguistics and Philosophy 9(1).
Special Issue onTense and Aspect in Discourse.LoCasio, V. and Vet, C. 1985 Temporal Structure in Sentence andDiscourse.
Foris Publications, Dordrecht.Reichenbach, H. 1947, reprint 1966 The Elements of Symbolic Logic.The Free Press, New York, NY.Tedeschi, P. and Zaenen, A.
1981 Syntax and Semantics.
Volume 14:Tense and Aspect.
Academic Press, NewYork, NY.NOTES1.
geichenbach regarded simple past, present, and future, and past,present, and future perfect as tenses.
While others have consideredthe perfect and the future as belonging to the systems of aspect andmodality, rather than tense, Reichenbach's u age remains a con-venient shorthand.2.
Reichenbach points out in a footnote that Jespersen, more than 20years before, proposed a related three-point semantics for pastperfect and future perfect but did not extend a similar analysis tothe other English tenses.2 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988
