TENSE AS D ISCOURSE ANAPHORBonnie Lynn WebberDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104-6389In this paper, I consider a range of English expressions and show that their context-dependency can becharacterized in terms of two properties:1.
They specify entities in an evolving model of the discourse that the listener is constructing;2.
The particular entity specified depends on another entity in that part of the evolving "discoursemodel" that the listener is currently attending to.Such expressions have been called anaphors.
I show how tensed clauses share these characteristics,usually just attributed to anaphoric noun phrases.
This not only allows us to capture in a simple way theoft-stated but difficult-to-prove intuition that tense is anaphoric, but also contributes to our knowledgeof what is needed for understanding narrative text.1 INTRODUCTIONIn this paper, I consider a range of English expressionsand show that their context-dependency can be charac-terized in terms of two properties:1.
They specify entities in an evolving model of thediscourse that the listener is constructing;2. the particular entity specified epends on anotherentity in that part of the evolving "discoursemodel" that the listener is currently attending to.Two types of expressions have previously been de-scribed in these terms: definite pronouns and certaindefinite noun phrases (NPs).
Researchers in computa-tional inguistics and in artificial intelligence have calledthese expressions anaphors (cf., Woods 1978, Sidner1983, Bobrow 1977, Hirst 1981, Webber 1983).Linguists, however, have used this term somewhatdifferently.
Many have restricted its use to expressions(usually pronouns) that can be treated analogously tovariables in a logical language (Chomsky 1980).
A viewin linguistics that comes somewhat closer to the AImodel can be found in a paper by Sag and Hankamer(1984), who distinguish what they call deep (or model-interpretive) anaphora from what they call surface ana-phora (or ellipsis).
Under the former, they includepersonal pronouns, sentential " i t ,"  and null-comple-ment anaphora, and under the latter, verb phrase (VP)ellipsis, sluicing, gapping, and stripping.
The two typesare distinguished by whether they make reference to theinterpretation of an antecedent--i.e., some object in amodel of the world constructed by the interpreter of thesentence of discourse (deep anaphora)---or whetherthey are interpreted with respect o a previous logicalform (surface anaphora).
While their deep anaphorsinclude pronouns, Hankamer and Sag do not considerother expressions like NPs in discourse that might alsobe described in similar model-interpretive terms, nor dothey describe in any detail how model interpretationworks for the expressions they consider.To avoid confusion then, I will use the term discourseanaphors for expressions that have these twoproperties.l My main point will be that tensed clausesshare these properties as well, and hence should also beconsidered iscourse anaphors.
This will capture in asimple way the oft-stated, but difficult-to-prove intu-ition that tense is anaphoric.To begin with, in Section 2, I characterize the depen-dency of an anaphoric expression Xb on a discourseentity Ea in terms of an anaphoric function a(Xb,Ea),that itself depends on 1. the ontology of the specifiedentity E a and 2. discourse structure and its focusingeffect on which Ea entities the listener is attending to.With respect o definite pronouns and NPs, this willessentially be a review of previous research.
However,I will argue that some indefinite NPs should also beconsidered iscourse anaphors in just this same way.
InSection 3, I will move on to tensed clauses and thenotion of tense as anaphor, a notion that goes back to atleast Leech in his monograph Meaning and the EnglishCopyright 1988 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission tocopy without fee all or part of this material isgranted providedthat he copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
Tocopy otherwise, orto republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/88/010061-73503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 61Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse AnaphorVerb (1987).
I will review previous attempts to make thenotion precise, attempts that require special-purposemachinery to get them to work.
Then I will show, incontrast, that the notion can more simply be madeprecise in terms of a set of similar anaphoric functionsthat again depend on ontology and discourse structure.Making clear these dependencies contributes to ourknowledge of what is needed for understanding narra-tive text.2 BACKGROUND2.1 DISCOURSE MODELS AND SPECIFICATIONThe notion specify that I am using in my definition ofdiscourse anaphora is based on the notion of a DiscourseModel, earlier described in Webber (1983).
My basicpremise is that in processing a narrative text, a listeneris developing a model of at least two things: 1. theentities under discussion, along with their propertiesand relationships to one another, and 2. the events andsituations under discussion, along with their relation-ships to one another (e.g., consequential relations,simple ordering relations, elaboration relations, etc.
).The representation as a whole I call the listener'sDiscourse Model.
2In this section, I will focus on NPs.
(In Section 3, Iwill turn attention to tensed clauses.)
NPs may evokeentities into the listener's Discourse Model correspond-ing to individuals (Example 1), sets (Example 2), ab-stract individuals (Example 3), classes (Example 4),etc.
31. a. Wendy gave Eliot a T-shirt for Christmas.b.
Unfortunately, (it, the T-shirt) had the logo"You ate it, Ralph".2. a. Wendy gave each boy a T-shirt.b.
(They, The T-shirts) each had a different logoon the front.3.
a.
The vice president must be over 35 years old.b.
He or she must also be able to count.4.
a.
The dachshund down the block bit meyesterday.b.
They're really vicious beasts.An NP which evokes a discourse ntity also specifies it.
4One way an NP would be considered anaphoric by theabove definition would be if it specified an entity E a inthe model that had already been evoked by some otherNP.
(In that case, one would say that the two NPsco-specified the same entity.)
This basic arrangement isillustrated in Examples 1-3 above and is shown inFigure la.
5 Formally, one could say that there is ananaphoric function a, whose value, given the anaphoricnoun phrase NP b and the discourse entity E a, is Ea--that is, a(NPb,Ea) = E a.
This can also be read as NP bspecifies E~ by virtue of Ea.
Definite pronouns are mostoften anaphoric in just this way.The other way an NP would be considered a dis-course anaphor would be if it used some existingdiscourse entity E a to evoke and specify a new dis-course entity Eb, as ino_s 0ify/ bevoko \ / specify ~ / specify evoke~ /evokeEa Ea--E bFigure 1.
Evoke, specify, and co-specify.5.
a.
A bus came round the corner.b.
I signaled to the driver to stop.where NPb--the driver--makes use of the entity asso-ciated with the bus mentioned in 5a to specify a newentity--the driver of that bus.Here the anaphoric function is of the form a(NPb,Ea)= E b.
In cooperative discourse, there have to beconstraints on the value of a(NPb,Ea), since only NP b isgiven explicitly.
In short, a cooperative speaker must beable to assume that the listener is able to both infer apossible a and single out Ea in his/her evolving Dis-course Model.
6 (This is illustrated in Figure lb.)
I willconsider each of these two types of constraints in turn.Speakers assume listeners will have no problem witha when a(NPb,E~) = E a. Inferring a in other casesfollows in large part from the ontology of the entitiesspecified by NPs-- i .e.
,  the ontology of our concepts ofindividuals, sets, mass terms, generics, etc.
We viewthese as having parts (e.g., car: the engine, the wheels),having functional relations (e.g., car: the driver), havingroles (e.g., wedding: the bride), etc.
These needn't benecessary parts, relations, roles, etc.
Our ontologyincludes possible parts, relations, etc., and these toomake it possible for the listener to infer an a such thata(NPb,Ea) = E b (e.g., room: the chandelier; car: thechauffeur; wedding: the flower girl).
Such inferencesare discussed at length in the literature, including Clarkand Marshall 1981, and Hobbs 1987.
7Before closing this section, there are two more thingsto say about NPs.
First, the above definition of dis-course anaphor does not apply to all definite NPs: adefinite NP can be used to refer to something unique inthe speaker and listener's hared spatio-temporal con-text (e.g., the telephone-- i .e.
,  the one that they bothhear ringing) or their shared culture (e.g., the govern-ment), to the unique representative of a class (e.g., theduck-billed platypus), to an entire class or set (e.g., thestars), or to a functionally defined entity (e.g., the62 Compulational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse Anaphorlargest omato in Scotland).
None of these would beconsidered discourse anaphoric by the above definition.Secondly, though the definition implies that one mustconsider some indefinite NPs to be discourse anaphors,since they are essentially parasitic on a correspondinganaphoric definite NP, as in the following example:6. a.
The driver stopped the bus when a passengerbegan to sing, "Aida".b.
The driver stopped the bus when the passen-gers began to sing "Aida".The indefinite NP a passenger in (6a) can be para-phrased as some one o f  the passengers, and thus isparasitic on the anaphoric definite NP the passengersmentioned explicitly in (6b).
This does not imply that allindefinite NPs are discourse anaphors.
In Mary met aboy with green hair or Fred built an oak desk, theindefinite NPs do not need to be interpreted withrespect o another discourse ntity and some inferrablerelationship with that entity, in order to characterize thediscourse ntity they specify.In the next section, I will discuss the second kind ofconstraint on the function a(NPb,E a) necessary forcooperative use of an anaphor--constraints on identifi-able Eas.
These involve notions of discourse structureand discourse focus.
Before I close, though, I want topoint to where I'm going vis-a-vis the anaphoric har-acter of tense and tensed clauses.
In contrast withprevious accounts of tense as pronoun or tense asloosely context-dependent, I am going to claim that, likean anaphoric definite NP,?
a tensed clause C b may either specify an existing eventor situation Eb in the listener's Discourse Model, or itmay both evoke and specify a new entity.?
As with anaphoric NPs, there are constraints onpossible anaphoric functions and on the Eas that canparticipate in them at any one time.?
These functions are sensitive to that part of a tensedclause C b called by Reichenbach (1947) point ofreference (here abbreviated RT), as well as its rela-tionship to Reichenbach's point of the event (ET).?
These functions can be defined in part in terms of anindependently justifiable ontology of events proposed(independently) by Moens and Steedman (this vol-ume) and Passonneau (this volume).?
The constraints on E a are tied in with a temporalanalogue of discourse focus that I have called tempo-ral focus (TF), and through TF, with discourse struc-ture as well.2.2 DISCOURSE FOCUS AND DISCOURSE STRUCTUREThe ideas presented in this section have been formu-lated and developed by Barbara Grosz and CandySidner, originally independently and later in joint re-search.
It is not a summary of their work: 8 it is limitedto those of their ideas that are necessary to the conceptof anaphor that I am advancing here and the concept oftense as anaphor, in particular.Sidner's thesis (1979, 1983) presents an account ofunderstanding definite pronouns and anaphoric definiteNPs that reflects the ease with which people identify theintended specificand of definite pronouns (except inhighly ambiguous cases), as well as the intended spec-ificand of anaphoric definite NPs.With respect to noun phrases (but not clauses),Sidner makes the same assumption about evoking,specifying, and co-specifying in a Discourse Model thatI have made here.
To understand anaphoric expres-sions, Sidner postulates three mechanisms:1. a current discourse focus (DF)2. an ordered list of potential foci (PFL) for the nextutterance3.
a stack for saving the current DF and resuming itlater.The DF corresponds to that entity the listener is mostattending to.
Pronouns can most easily specify thecurrent DF, slightly less easily a member of the PFL,and with slightly more difficulty, a stacked focus.Specifying an entity pronominally can shift the listen-er's attention to it, thereby promoting it to be the nextDF.
Anything else specified in the clause ends up on thePFL, ordered by its original syntactic position.
(Sidnerintroduced a separate "agent focus" to allow twoentities to be specified pronominally in the same clause,but it was not a critical feature of her approach.)
As foranaphoric definite NPs, they can specify anything pre-viously introduced (whether on the PFL, a stackedfocus, or anything else) or anything related in a mutuallyinferrable way with the current DF or a member of thePFL.
In terms of the constraints I mentioned above, itis only those discourse ntities that are either the DF oron the PFL that can serve as Ea for an anaphoricdefinite NP.
9In Sidner (1983) DFs always are stacked for possibleresumption later.
In Grosz and Sidner (1986) it is anentire focus space (FS) (Grosz 1977) that gets stacked(i.e., the collection of entities L is attending to by virtueof the current discourse segment (DS)) but only when the9purpose of the current DS is taken to dominate that ofthe one upcoming.
Dominance relations are also speci-fied further according to the type of discourse.
In Groszand Sidner, they are defined for task-related' ialoguesand arguments.
For example, in arguments, one DSpurpose (DSP) dominates another if the second pro-vides evidence for a point made in the first.
When thedominated DSP is satisfied, its corresponding FS ispopped.
This stack mechanism models the listener'sattentional state.
The relations between DSPs constitutethe intentional structure of the text.
Getting a listener toresume aDS via the stack mechanism is taken to requireless effort on a speaker's part than returning to elabo-rate an argument or subtask description later on.The  significance of Sidner (1983) and Grosz andSidner (1986) for the current enterprise is that:Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 63Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse Anaphor?
Sidner essentially shows how DF can move graduallyamong the discourse entities that make up a focusspace, as the listener is processing its associateddiscourse segment;?
Grosz and Sidner show how DF can make a radicaljump to a different (possibly newly evoked) discourseentity as the listener moves to process the nextdiscourse segment.
~oI reinterpret this in the current framework in terms ofthe anaphoric function a(NPb,Ea).
Within a discoursesegment, the entity that is the DF is the most likely E a.Over the discourse segment, other discourse ntities inthe segment's focus space may in turn become DF.With a change in discourse segment, however, the DFcan change radically to an entity in the focus spaceassociated with the new segment.To hint again at what is to come: in Section 3.2, I willpropose a temporal analogue of DF, which I have calledtemporal  focus (TF).
In Section 3.3, I will show howgradual movements of the TF are tied in with theontology of what a tensed clause specifies--i.e., anontology of events and situations--while more radicalmovements reflect the effect of discourse structure onTF.3 TENSE AS ANAPHORTense may not seem prima facie anaphoric: an isolatedsentence like John went to bed or I met a man wholooked like a basset hound appears to make sense in away that a stand-alone He went to bed or The man wentto bed does not.
On the other hand, if some time orevent is established by the context (i.e., either by anevent or situation described in the previous discourse orby a temporal adverbial in the current sentence--cf.Passonneau, and Moens and Steedman, this volume),tense will invariably be interpreted with respect o it, asin:7. a.
After he finished his chores, John went to bed.b.
John partied until 3 am.
He came home andwent to bed.In each case, the interpretation of John's going to bed islinked to an explicitly mentioned time or event.
This iswhat underlies all discussion of the anaphoric quality oftense.3.1 BACKGROUNDThe assumption that tense is anaphoric (i.e., that itsinterpretation is linked to some time or event derivedfrom context) goes back many years, although it is nota universally held belief (cf.
Comrie 1985).
Leech seemsto express this view in his Meaning and the EnglishVerb:63 INDEF IN ITE  TIME Whereas the Present Per-fect, in its indefinite past sense, does not name aspecific point of time, a definite POINT OF ORI-ENTATION in the past is normally required forthe appropriate use of the Simple Past Tense.
Thepoint of orientation may be specified in one ofthree ways: (a) by an adverbial express of time-when; (b) by a preceding use of a Past or PerfectTense; and (c) by implicit definition; i.e., byassumption of a particular time from context.73 Tile Past Perfect Tense has the meaning of past-in-the-past, or more accurately, 'a time further inthe past, seen from the viewpoint of a definitepoint of time already in the past'.
That is, like theSimple Past Tense, the Past Perfect demands analready established past point of reference.
(Leech: 47)Leech did not elaborate further on how reference pointsare used in the interpretation of simple past tense andpast perfect tense, or on what has become the mainproblem in the semantics and pragmatics of tense:reconciling the (usual) forward movement of events innarratives with a belief in the anaphoric (or context-dependent) character of tense.The first explicit reference I have to tense beinganaphoric like a definite pronoun is in an article byMcCawley (1971:110), who said:However the tense morpheme does not just expressthe time relationship between the clause it is in andthe next higher clause--it also refers to the time ofthe clause that it is in, and indeed, refers to it in a waythat is rather like the way in which personal pronounsrefer to what they stand for.McCawley also tried to fit in his view of tense aspronoun with the interpretation of tense in simplenarratives.
Here he proposed that the event described inone clause serves as the antecedent of the event de-scribed in the next, but that it may be related to thatevent by being either at the same time or "short ly after"it.
He did not elaborate on when one relation would beassumed and when the other.Partee (1973) also noted the similarities betweentense and definite pronouns.
However,  she subse-quently recognized that taking simple past tense asdirectly analogous with pronouns was incompatiblewith the usual forward movement of time in the inter-pretation in a sequence of sentences denoting events(Partee 1984).
Her response was a modification of theclaim that tense is anaphoric, saying:I still believe it is reasonable to characterize t nse asanaphoric, or more broadly as context-dependent,but I would no longer suggest hat this requires themto be viewed as 'referring' to times as pronouns'refer' to entities, or to treat times as arguments ofpredicates (256).The particular context-dependent process she proposesfor interpreting tensed clauses follows that of Hinrichs1986, briefly described below.The examples presented above to illustrate the ana-phoric quality of tense were all simple past.
However,as Leech notes (see above), the past perfect also makesdemands on having some reference point already estab-64 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse Anaphorlished in the context.
Thus it cannot be in terms of theevent described in a tensed clause that tense is anapho-ric.
Instead, several people (Steedman 1982, Hinrichs1986, Bauerle 1979) have argued that it is that part oftense called by Reichenbach (1947) the point of refer-ence (here abbreviated RT) that is anaphoric.
This canbe seen by considering the following example:8. a. John went to the hospital.b.
He had twisted his ankle on a patch of ice.It is not the point of the event (here abbreviated ET) ofJohn's twisting his ankle that is interpreted anaphori-cally with respect to his going to the hospital.
Rather, itis the RT of the second clause: its ET is interpreted asprior to that because the clause is in the past perfect (seeabove).I will now review briefly Hinrichs's proposal as tohow tensed clauses are interpreted in context, in orderto contrast it with the current proposal.In Hinrichs 1986, Hinrichs makes the simplifyingassumption that in a sequence of simple past sentences,the temporal order of events described cannot contra-dict the order of the sentences.
This allows him to focuson the problem of characterizing those circumstances inwhich the event described by one sentence follows thatdescribed by the previous one (Example 9---Hinrichs'sExample 15) and when it overlaps it (Example 10---Hinrichs's Example 21):9.
The elderly gentleman wrote out the check, toreit from the book, and handed it to Costain.10.
Mr. Darby slapped his forehead, then collectedhimself and opened the door again.
The brushman was smiling at him hesitantly.Hinrichs bases his account on the Aktionsart of a tensedclause (i.e., its Vendlerian classification as an accom-plishment, achievement, activity, or state--includingprogressives).
Assuming an initial reference point in adiscourse, the event described by a tensed clause inter-preted as an accomplishment or achievement will beincluded in that reference point and will also introducea new reference point ordered after the old one.
Eventsassociated with the other Aktionsarten i clude the cur-rent reference point in the event ime.
This means thatgiven a sequence of two clauses interpreted as accom-plishments or achievements, heir corresponding eventswill follow one another (cf.
Example 9).
On the otherhand, given a sequence with at least one tensed clauseinterpreted as an activity or state (including progres-sive), their corresponding events will be interpreted asoverlapping each other (cf.
Example 10).Hinrichs relates his reference point to that of Rei-chenbach.
(Thus, the anaphoric haracter of tense isbased on RT and not on the events directly.)
However,Hinrichs's notion and Reichenbach's differ with respectto the time of the event described in the tensed clause.While Reichenbach talks about ET and RT being thesame for nonprogressive past-tense clauses, in Hin-richs's account he reference point can fall after theevent if a nonprogressive past is interpreted as anaccomplishment or an achievement.
This is necessaryto achieve the forward movement of narrative thatHinrichs assumes is always the case (his simplifyingassumption) but it is not the same as Reichenbach's RT.It also leads to problems in cases where this simplifyingassumption is just wrong--where in a sequence ofsimple past tenses, there is what appears to be a"backward" movement of time, as in11.
a.
For an encore, John played the "MoonlightSonata".b.
The opening movement he took rather tenta-tively, but then .
.
.where the second clause should be understood as de-scribing the beginning of the playing event in moredetail, not as describing a subsequent event.In the account given below, both forward and back-ward movement of time fall out of the anaphoric har-acter of tensed clauses, and the dependency of dis-course anaphora on discourse structure.113.2 TENSE AS DISCOURSE ANAPHOR: IN WHAT SENSE"SPECIFY"?With that background, I will now show how tensedclauses share the two properties I set out in Section 1(repeated here) and hence are further examples ofdiscourse anaphora:1.
Anaphors specify entities in an evolving model ofthe discourse that the listener is constructing;2. the particular entity specified epends on anotherentity in that part of the evolving Discourse Modelthat the listener is currently attending to.To do this, I need to explain the sense in which tensedclauses pecify and the way in which that specificationcan depend on another element in the current context.Recall that I presume that a listener's developingdiscourse model represents both the entities being dis-cussed, along with their properties and relations, andthe events and situations being discussed, along withtheir relationships with another.
For the rest of thispaper, I want to ignore the former and focus on thelatter.
This I will call event/situation structure, or E/Sstructure.
It represents the listener's best effort atinterpreting the speaker's ordering of those events andsituations in time and space.
One problem in textunderstanding, then, is that of establishing where in theevolving E/S structure to integrate the event or situationdescription in the next clause.In this framework, a tensed clause C b provides twopieces of semantic information: (a) a description of anevent or situation, and (b) a particular configuration ofET, RT, and point of speech (abbreviated ST).
(Here Imay be departing from Reichenbach in treating ET, RT,and ST explicitly as elements of linguistic semantics,quite distinct from entities of type "event" in theComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 65Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse AnaphorDiscourse Model.)
Cb then specifies an entity E b in theDiscourse Model whose temporal relationship to otherevents in the model follows (in part) from Cb'S particu-lar configuration of ET, RT, and ST.
Both the charac-teristics of E b (i.e., its ontology) and the configurationof ET, RT, and ST are critical to my account of tense asdiscourse anaphor.The event ontology I assume follows that of Moensand Steedman (this volume) and of Passonneau (thisvolume).
Both propose that people interpret events ashaving a tripartite structure (a "nucleus" in Moens andSteedman's terminology) consisting of a preparatoryphase (prep), a culmination (cuD, and a consequentphase (conseq)--as in Figure 2.
This tripartite structurepermits auniform account to be given of aspectual typesin English and of how the interpretation of temporaladverbials interacts with the interpretation f tense andaspect.
For example, the coercion of clauses from oneinterpretation to another is defined in terms of whichparts of a nucleus they select and how those parts aredescribed.
12prep cul conseq(l l l l l l l l l l l l l lt l l l l l l l l l l l l l l  ~Figure 2.
Tripartite ontology of events.The ET/RT/ST configuration is significant in that, likeSteedman 1982, Dowty 1986, Hinrichs 1986, and Partee1984, I take RT as the basis for anaphora.
To indicatethis, I single it out as an independent argument oanaphoric functions, here labelled/3.
In particular, thefollowing schema holds of a clause C b linked anaphori-cally to an event Ea through its RT:/3(Cb, Ea, RTb) = E bThe relationship between E b and Ea then falls out as aconsequence of I. the particular ET/RT/ST configurationof Cb; and 2. the particular function/3 involved.One possibility is that/3 links RT b directly to Ea---i.e.
:/30(Cb, Ea, RTb) = E bIn this case, the relationship between E b and Ea thendepends on the configuration ofRT b and ET b.
If ET b =RTb ,  then (minimally) E b is taken to coincide in someway with E a.
This is shown in Figure 3a.
If ET b < RT  b(as in the perfect enses), E b is taken to precede Ea.
Thisis shown in Figure 3d.Alternatively, /3 may embody part of the tripartiteontology of events mentioned earlier:/3prep links RT b tothe preparatory phase of E a (as shown in Figure 3b)---i.e.
:/3prep(Cb, Ea, RTb) = E bca Cb ca Cb ca Cb,1//xSE a Ea EbEb I Eb E aprep conseq \]prep conseq(a) ~0 (b) 13conseq (c) 13prepFigure 3.
Anaphoric relations for tensed clauses where ET= RT.Ca C b XE b E a(d) 130Figure 3 (continued).
Anaphoric relations where ET < RT.while/3conseq links RT b to the consequent phase of E a (asshown in Figure 3c)--i.e.
:/3conseq(Cb, E a, RTb) = Eb(There is a third possibility--that RTb links to theculmination of Ea--but it is not clear to me that it couldbe distinguished from the simpler /3o function givenabove, which links RT b to  Ea itself.
Also, while /3prepand /3co,,seq relations for RTb might theoretically bepossible for a perfect, it is not clear to me that thesecases could be distinguished from the simpler/3o- In thecase of perfects therefore, the relation between Eb andEa is correspondingly indirect.
'3The following example illustrates the case where/3 =/3 o and ETb = RTb.12.
a. John played the piano.b.
Mary played the kazoo.Sentence 12a.
evokes a new event entity Ea describableas the event of John playing the piano.
Since the tenseof (12b) is simple past, ET b = RTb.
Given /3o(Cb,Ea,RTb) = E b, then E b is interpreted as coextensive withEa.
(Whether this is further interpreted as two simulta-neous events or a single event of their playing a duetdepends on context and, perhaps, world knowledge aswell.)
This is illustrated in Figure 4.
Example 8 (re-peated here) illustrates the case/30 where ET b < RT  b.66 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse AnaphorE a , E b(C ))Figure 4.
Co-extensive events.i Now8.
a. John went to the hospital.b.
He had twisted his ankle on a patch of ice.Clause 8a.
evokes an entity E a describable as John'sgoing to the hospital.
Since 8b is past perfect, ET b <RT b.
Thus if /3o(Cb,Ea,RTb) = Eb, the event E b de-scribed by 8b is taken to be prior to E a.
As Moens &Steedman (this volume) point out, the consequences ofan event described with a perfect ense are still assumedto hold.
Hence the overlap shown in Figure 5:E b E a) ( )I ="conseq( E b ) NowFigure 5.
Ordered events.The next example illustrates /3conseq:13. a. John went into the florist shop.b.
He picked out three red roses, two white onesand one pale pink.Clause 13a evokes an entity E a describable as John'sgoing into a flower shop.
Since Clause 13b is simplepast, ET b = RT b.
Thus given/3conseq(Cb,Ea,RT b) = E b,event E b is taken as being part of the consequent phaseof Ea.
That is, John's picking out the roses is taken ashappening after his going into the florist shop.
This isshown in Figure 6.
The next example illustrates the caseof/3prep:14. a. John bought Mary some flowers.b.
He picked out three red roses, two white onesand one pale pink.Since 14b is simple past, ET b = RT b.
Thus given/3prep(Cb,Ea,RTb) = Eb, event Eb--the event of pickingout some roses-- is taken as being part of the prepara-tory phase of the event E a, which when completed, canE Eb \[( a ) ( )Iconseq( E a ) NowFigure 6.
Consequent-phase relation.be described as having bought some flowers.
This isshown in Figure 7.E b E a( ) ( )prep( E ) t aNowFigure 7.
Preparatory-phase relation.To summarize, I have claimed that: 1. the notion ofspecification makes sense with respect to tensedclauses; 2. one can describe the anaphoric relation interms of the RT of a tensed clause Cb, its ET/RTconfiguration, and an existing event or situation entityE~----that is, /3(Cb,Ea,RT b) = Eb; and 3. there are (atleast) three /3 functions---one, /3o, linking RT b to E aitself, the other two (/3prep and/3conseq) embodying partsof a tripartite ontology of events.
In the next section, Iwill discuss constraints on the second argument o/3(Cb,Ea,RTb)--that is, constraints on which entities inthe evolving E/S structure the specification of a tensedclause can depend on.3.3 TEMPORAL FOCUSRecall from Section 2.2 that Sidner introduced thenotion of a dynamically changing discourse focus (DF) tocapture the intuition that at any point in the discourse,there is one discourse ntity that is the prime focus ofattention and that is the most likely (although not theonly possible) specificand of a definite pronoun.
Inparallel, I propose a dynamically changing temporalfocus (TF), to capture a similar intuition that at anypoint in the discourse, there is one entity in E/S struc-ture that is most attended to and hence most likely tostand in an anaphoric relation with the RT of the nextclause.
That is, fl(Cb,TF,RT b) = E b.
If Cb is interpretedas part of the current discourse segment, after itsinterpretation there are three possibilities:I. With/30, the TF will stay where it is, independentof whether ET = RT or ET < RT.2.
With/3conseq, RTb'S link to the consequent phase ofthe TF locates event E b there, shifting the TFforward (to Eb).
This is the "natural"  forwardprogression of narrative.3.
With/3prep, RTb'S link to the preparatory phase ofthe TF locates E b there, shifting the TF backwardto (Eb).
This is used to elaborate an event orsituation in more detail.These relationships, which I will call maintenance andlocal movement of the TF, correspond to Sidner's DFmoving gradually among the discourse entities in adiscourse segment.
(They cover the same phenomena asthe micromoves that Nakhimovsky describes in hispaper (this volume).)
More radical movement of TFcorrespond to changes in discourse structure.
(TheseComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 67Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse Anaphorcover similar phenomena to the macromoves describedin Nakhimovsky, also this volume.)
In cases involvingmovements into and out of an embedded discoursesegment, either 1. the TF will shift to a different entityin E/S structure---either an existing entity or one cre-ated in recognition of an embedded narrative; or 2. itwill return to the entity previously labeled TF, aftercompleting an embedded narrative.
Such movementsare described in Section 3.3.2.
Other movements, sig-naled by temporal adverbials and when clauses, are notdiscussed in this paper.
143.3.1 TEMPORAL FOCUS: MAINTENANCE AND LOCALMOVEMENTThe following pair of examples illustrate maintenanceand local movement of TF within a discourse segmentand its link with E/S structure construction.
The first Idiscussed in the previous section to illustrate /3conseq"The second is a variation on that example:13. a. John went into the florist shop.b.
He picked out three red roses, two white onesand one pale pink.15.
a. John went into the florist shop.b.
He had promised Mary some flowers.c.
He picked out three red roses, two white ones,and one pale pink.First consider Example 13.
The first clause (13a) evokesan event entity E a describable as John's going into theflorist shop.
Since its tense is simple past, E a is inter-preted as prior to ST.
Since it begins the discourse, itsstatus is special vis-~t-vis both definite NPs and tensedclauses.
That is, since no previous TF will have beenestablished yet, the listener takes that entity E a to serveas TF.
15 This is shown in Figure 8:Partee, and Dowty were out to achieve.
Here it falls outsimply :from the discourse notion of a TF and from theparticular anaphoric function/3?o,scq.16Now consider Example 15 (repeated here) whosefirst clause is the same as Example 13a and hence wouldbe processed in the same way.E E b a- (  ) ( )I conseq( E a )Q NowFigure 9.
E/S structure after processing Clause 13b.15.
a. John went into the florist shop.b.
He had promised Mary some flowers.c.
He picked out three red roses, two white ones,and one pale pink.The tense of the next clause (15b) is past perfect.
As Inoted above, the only anaphoric function on RT15b andan event entity that makes sense for perfect tenses is/3o--that is,/30(Clsb, TF, RT15b) = El5 bGiven that perfect enses imply ET < RT, the event E bspecified by (15b) will be interpreted as being prior toE a.
Moreover, since (15b) is past perfect, the conse-quent phase of E b is assumed to still hold with respect oRT15 b.
Hence the consequent phase of E b overlaps E a.Finally since TF is associated with the event entity atRT b, it remains at E a. E/S structure at this pointresembles Figure 10:( a )?NowFigure 8.
E/S structure after processing Clause 13a.If Clause 13b is interpreted as being part of the samediscourse segment as (13a) it must be the case thatfl(C13b,TF,RT136).
Assume the listener takes /3 to be/3cons~,q on the basis of world knowledge--that is,/3conscq(Clab,TF,RT13b).
Since the tense of (13b) is sim-ple past, its RT and ET coincide.
Thus (13b) specifies anew entity Eb, located within the consequent phase ofthe TF- - that  is, Ea--and hence after it.
I assume that,following the computation of the anaphoric function, TFbecomes associated with the event entity located atRT b.
In this case, it is E b, and TF thereby movesforward (cf.
Figure 9).
As noted, this is the gradualforward movement of simple narratives that Hinrichs,68E b E a( ) ( )Q NowFigure 10.
E/S structure after processing Clause 15b.Now Clause 15c is the same as (13b), and TF is the sameas it was at the point of interpreting (13b).
Thus notsurprisingly, 15c produces the same change in E/SE b E Ea c ( ) ( ) (  )I conseq( E a )?vNowFigure 11.
E/S structure after processing Clause 15c.Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse Anaphorstructure and in the TF as (13b), resulting in the diagramshown in Figure 11.3.3.2 TEMPORAL FOCUS: DISCOURSE-STRUCTUREMOVEMENTSTo illustrate the effect of discourse structure on TF,consider the following variation on Example 15, whichhad the same structure vis-~t-vis equence of tenses.16.
a. John went into the florist shop.b.
He had promised Mary some flowers.c.
She said she wouldn't forgive him if he forgot.The first two clauses (a) and (b) are the same as inExample 15 and lead to the same configuration ofevententities in E/S structure (as shown in Figure 10).
But themost plausible interpretation of (16c) is where the"saying" event is interpreted anaphorically with respectto the "promising" event--that is, where (16b-c) aretaken together as (the start of) an embedded discourse,describing an event prior to John's going to the florist's.To handle this, I assume, following Grosz and Sidner1986, that when the listener ecognizes an embeddeddiscourse segment, s/he stores the current TF for pos-sible resumption later.
'7 However, I also assume thelistener ecognizes the embedding not when s/he firstencounters a perfect-tensed clause Cb, since it needn'tsignal an embedded iscourse, but later, when animmediately following simple past tense clause Cc ismost sensibly interpreted with respect to the evententity E b that Cb evoked.
~8 At this point, the listenermoves TF from its current position to E b, caching theprevious value for possible resumption later.
Followingthis gross movement, /3(Cc,TF,RT~) will be computed.If/3 is then interpreted as /3conseq or/3prep, there will bea second movement of TF.
'9Coming back to Example 16, if Clause 16c is taken asbeing part of a single discourse segment with (16a-b),she saying something would have to be interpreted withrespect o the current TF (Ea)---John's going to theflorist.
This is implausible under all possible interpreta-tions of/3.2o However, under the assumption that E b ispart of an embedded narrative, the listener can aposteriori shift TF to E b and consider the anaphoricrelation/3(C16c, TF, RT16c) = El6 cwith Eb as TF.
At this point, the listener can plausiblytake/3 to be/3co,seq based on world knowledge.
Since(16c) is simple past, ETc = RT~, the "saying" event E~is viewed as part of the consequent phase (and hencefollowing) the "promising" event E b.
As in the firstcase, TF moves to the event located at RT~--i.e., to Ec.This is shown roughly in Figure 12.
Notice that thisinvolved two movements of TF---once in response to aperceived embedded segment and a second time, inresponse to interpreting/3 as/3?o,seq-Now consider the following extension to (16):17. a. John went into the florist shop.b.
He had promised Mary some flowers.c.
She said she wouldn't forgive him if he forgot.d.
So he picked out three red roses, two whiteones, and one pale pink.As before, Clauses 17b-c form an embedded narrative,but here the main narrative of John's visit to the floristshop, started at (17a), is continued at (17d).
To handlethis, I again assume that TF behaves much like Sidner'sDF in response to the listener's recognition of the end ofan embedded narrative: that is, the cached TF is re-sumed and processing continues.
2~F-\]CacheE b E c E a( ) (  ) ( )I~nseq( E b )?
NowFigure 12.
E/S structure after processing Clause 16c.Under this assumption, Clauses 17a-c are interpretedas in the previous example (cf.
Figure 12).
RecognizingClause 17d as resuming the embedding segment, 2zthepreviously cached TF (Ea---the going into the floristshop event) is resumed.
Again assume that the listenertakes the anaphoric function to be flconseq(Cd,TF,RTd)= E o on the basis of world knowledge.
Since Clause 17dis simple past (ET = RT), the picking out roses event E dis viewed as part of the consequent phase and hencefollowing the going into the florist shop event.
This isshown roughly in Figure 13:CacheEb Ec Ea Ed I) (  ) ( ) (  )Jconseq ( Jconseq( E b ) E c )Q NowFigure 13.
E/S structure after processing Clause 17d.Now getting the listener to interpret a text as anembedded narrative requires providing him/her withanother event or situation that TF can move to.
Oneway in English is via a perfect-tensed clause, whichComputational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 69Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse Anaphorexplicitly evokes another event, temporally earlier thanthe one currently in focus.
Another way is by lexicalindications of an embedded narrative, such as verbs oftelling and NPs that themselves denote vents or situa-tions (e.g., ones headed by de-verbal nouns).This is illustrated in Example 18.
Even though all itsclauses are simple past (ET = RT), Clauses 18c-d aremost plausibly interpreted as indirect speech describingan event hat has occurred prior to the "telling" event.I assume that in response to recognizing this kind ofembedded narrative, the listener creates a new node ofE/S structure and shifts TF there, caching the previousvalue of TF for possible resumption later.
The temporallocation of this new node vis-a-vis the previous TF willdepend on information in the tensed clause and on thelistener's world knowledge.18.
a. I was at Mary's house yesterday.b.
We talked about her sister Jane.c.
She spent five weeks in Alaska with twofriends.d.
Together, they climbed Mt.
McKinley.e.
Mary asked whether I would want to go toAlaska some time.Notice that, as with embedded narratives cued by theuse of a perfect tense, caching the previous TF forresumption later enables the correct interpretation ofClause 18e, which is most plausibly interpreted asfollowing the telling about her sister event.An NP denoting an event or situation (such as oneheaded by a noun like trip or by a de-verbal noun likeinstallation) can also signal the upcoming possibility ofan embedded narrative that will elaborate that event orsituation (past, upcoming, or hypothetical) in moredetail, as in Example 19.
In this case, the original NPand the subsequent clause(s) will be taken as co-specifying the same thing.
The question here is how andwhen TF moves.19.
a. I was talking with Mary yesterday.b.
She told me about her trip to Alaska.c.
She spent five weeks above the Arctic Circlewith two friends.d.
The three of them climbed Mt.
McKinley.After interpreting Clause 19b, the TF is at the "telling"event.
I claim that the NP her trip to Alaska, whileevoking a discourse ntity, does not affect the TF.
IfClause 19c is interpreted as the start of an embeddednarrative (as it is here), TF moves to the event entity E cit evokes (caching the previous value Eb).
At this point,using additional reasoning, the listener may recognizean anaphoric relation between Clause 19c and thediscourse ntity evoked by her trip to Alaska.
Supportfor this, rather than assuming that an event-denoting NPsets up a potential focus, just as I claim a perfect-tensedclause does, comes from the reasoning required tounderstand the following parallel example, where Iwould claim TF does not move.20.
a. I was talking with Mary yesterday.b.
She told me about her trip to Alaska.c:.
She had spent five weeks above the ArcticCircle with two friends.d.
The three of them had climbed Mt.
McKinley.e.
She said that next year they would go forAconcagua.The event described in Clause 20c is the same as thatdescribed in Clause 19c, and should be interpretedanaphorically with respect to the entity her trip toAlaska in the same way.
If this is the case, however,then the anaphoric link does not follow from the move-ment of TF.3.3.3 TEMPORAL FOCUS: MISCELLANYExample 20 above illustrates one case of an anaphoricfunction on an NP and a tensed clause, specificallyfl(Cb,Ea,RTb) where the entity Ea has been evoked byan NP rather than a clause.
Another possibility is thata(NPb,Ea) = Eb, where NP b is definite by virtue of anentity evoked by a clause rather than an NP that is,Eb, is associated with either the preparatory/culmina-tion/consequent structure of Ea, as in21.
a. Mary climbed Mt.
McKinley.b.
The preparations took her longer than theascent.or its associated role structure, as in22.
a. John bought a television.b.
Although he had intended to buy a 13" b/wset, the salesman convinced him to buy a 25"color, back-projection job.where the salesman fills a particular role in the buyingevent.Next, notice that ambiguities arise when there ismore than one way to plausibly segment the discourse,as in the following example:23. a. I told Frank about my meeting with Ira.b.
We talked about ordering a Butterfly.Here it is plausible to take Clause 23b as the beginningof an embedded narrative, whereby the "talking about"event is interpreted against a new node of E/S structure,situated prior to the "telling Frank" event.
(In this case,we is Ira and me.)
It is also plausible to take (23b) ascontinuing the current narrative, whereby the "talkingabout" event is interpreted with respect o the "tellingFrank" event.
(In contrast here, we is Frank and me.
)Finally, consider things from the point of view ofgeneration.
If some event E b is part of the preparatoryphase of some event Ea, and a description of Ea has justbeen generated using the simple past tense, then E bcould be described using either the simple past, as inExample 24 or past perfect, as in Example 25.70 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse Anaphor24.
a. John went to the hospital.b.
He took a taxi, because his car was in the shop25.
a. John went to the hospital.b.
He had taken a taxi, because his car was in theshop.In the case of Example 24, the listener/reader recog-nizes that Eb is part of the preparatory phase of E a andthat Eb therefore precedes E a.
In the case of Example25, the listener would first recognize that E b precedesEa because of the past perfect, but then recognize Eb aspart of the preparatory phase of E a.On the other hand, if E b simply precedes E a, but adescription of E a has been generated first, then Eb mustbe described with a past perfect (Example 26): simplepast would not be sufficient (Example 27).26. a. John went to the hospital.b.
He had broken his ankle, walking on a patchof ice.27.
a. John went to the hospital.b.
*He broke his ankle, walking on a patch ofice.4 CONCLUSIONIn this paper, I have presented a uniform characteriza-tion of discourse anaphora in a way that includesdefinite pronouns, definite NPs, and tensed clauses.
Indoing so, I have argued that the successful use ofdiscourse anaphors depends on two different things: 1.speakers' and listeners' (mutual) beliefs about the on-tology of the things and events being discussed, and 2.speakers' and listeners' (mutual) focus of attention.
Theformer implicates semantics in the explanation of dis-course anaphora, the latter, discourse itself.
It is impor-tant that we as researchers recognize these as twoseparate systems, as the properties of discourse as anexplanatory device are very different from those ofsemantics.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work was partially supported by ARO grantDAA29-884-9-0027, NSF grant MCS-8219116-CER, andDARPA grant N00014-85-K-0018 to the University ofPennsylvania, by DARPA grant N00014-85-C-0012 toUNISYS Paoli Research Center, and an Alvey grant tothe Centre for Speech Technology Research, Universityof Edinburgh.My thanks to Becky Passonneau, Debby Dahl, MarkSteedman, Ethel Schuster, Candy Sidner, BarbaraGrosz, Ellen Bard, Anne Anderson, Tony Sanford,Simon Garrod, and Rich Thomason for their helpfulcomments on the many earlier versions of this paper.REFERENCESBauerle, R. 1979 Temporal Deixis, temporale Frage.
Gunter NarrVerlag, Tubigen.Bobrow, D.; and the PARC Understander Group.
1986 GUS, AFrame-Driven Dialog System.
Artificial Intelligence 8: 155-173.Chomsky, N. 1980 Rules and Representations.
Columbia UniversityPress, New York, NY.Clark, H.; and Marshall, C. 1981 Definite Reference and MutualKnowledge.
In Joshi, A., Webber, B., & Sag, I.
(Eds.).
Elementsof Discourse Understanding.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, England.Comrie, B.
1985 Tense.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Crain, S.; and Steedman, M. 1985 On not being Led up the GardenPath: the Use of Context by the Psychological Syntax Processor.In Natural Language Parsing.
Dowty, D., Karttunen, L., andZwicky, A., (Eds.
), Cambridge University Press, Cambridge;320-358.Dowty, D. 1986 The Effects of Aspectual Class on the TemporalStructure of Discourse: Semantics or Pragmatics.
Linguistics andPhilosophy 9(1): 37-62.Grosz, B.
1977 The Representation and Use of Focus in DialogueUnderstanding.
Ph.D. diss.
University of California, Berkeley,CA.Grosz, B.; and Sidner, C. 1986 Attention, Intention, and the Structureof Discourse.
Computational Linguistics 12(3): 175-604.Grosz, B.; Joshi, A.; and Weinstein, S. 1983 Providing a UnifiedAccount of Definite Noun Phrases in Discourse.
Proceedings ofthe 22nd Annual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics.
MIT, Cambridge, MA; 44-50.Heim, I.
1982 The Semantics of Definite and Indefinite Noun Phrases.Ph.D.
diss.
Department of Linguistics, University of Massachu-setts, Amherst, MA.Hinrichs, E. 1986 Temporal Anaphora in Discourses of English.Linguistics and Philosophy 9(1): 63-82.Hirst, G. 1981 Anaphora in Natural Language Understanding: ASurvey.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, W. Germany.Hobbs, J.
1987 Implicature and Definite Reference.
CSLI-87-99.Center for the Study of Language and Information, StanfordUniversity, Stanford, CA.Kamp, H. 1984 A Theory of Truth and Semantic Representation.
ITruth, Interpretation, and Information.
Groenendijk, J., Janssen,T.M.V., and Stokhof, M.
(Eds.).
Foris, Dordrecht, Holland.Leech, G. 1987 Meaning and the English Verb (2nd edition).
Long-man, London, England.McCawley, J.
1971 Tense and Time Reference in English.
In Studiesin Linguistic Semantics.
Fillmore, C. and Langendoen, D.T.(Eds.).
Holt, Rinehart and Winston, New York, NY; 97-114.Moens, M.; and Steedman, M. 1987 Temporal Ontology in NaturalLanguage.
Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.
Stanford University, Stan-ford, CA; 1-7.Partee, B.
1973 Some Structural Analogies between Tenses andPronouns in English.
Journal of Philosophy 70: 601-609.Partee, B.
1984 Nominal and Temporal Anaphora.
Linguistics andPhilosophy 7(3): 287-324.Passonneau, R. 1987 Situations and Intervals.
Proceedings of the 25thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics.Stanford University, Stanford, CA; 16-24.Reichenbach, H. 1966 The Elements of Symbolic Logic.
The FreePress, New York, NY.Rohrer, C. 1985 Indirect Discourse and "Consecutio Temporum".
InTemporal Structure in Sentence and Discourse.
LoCascio, V., andVet, C.
(Eds.).
Foris Publications, Dordrecht, Holland; 79--98.Sag, I.; and Hankamer, J.
1984 Toward a Theory of AnaphoricProcessing.
Linguistics and Philosophy 7(3): 325-345.Sidner, C. 1979 Towards a Computational Theory of Definite Ana-phora Comprehension i  English Discourse.
Ph.D. diss.
Dept.
ofComputational L~ngulsfics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 71Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse AnaphorElectrical Engineering and Computer Science, MIT, Cambridge,MA.Sidner, C. 1983 Focusing in the Comprehension f Definite Anaphora.In Computational Models of Discourse.
Brady, M., and Berwick,R.
(Eds.).
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA; 267-330.Steedman, M. 1982 Reference to Past Time.
In Speech, Place, andAction.
Jarvella, R. and Klein, W.
(Eds.).
Wiley, New York, NY;125-157.Webber, B.
1983 So can we Talk about Now?
In ComputationalModels of Discourse.
Brady, M., and Berwick, R.
(Eds.).
MITPress, Cambridge, MA; 331-371.Webber, B.
1987 The Interpretation of Tense in Discourse.
Proceed-ings of the 25th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.
Stanford University, Stanford, CA.Woods, W.A.
1978 Semantics and Quantification in Natural-Lan-guage Question Answering.
In Advances in Computing 17: 2-64.M.
Yovits (Ed.).
Academic Press, New York, NY.NOTES1.
Computationally, these properties imply particular things aboutprocessing.
For example, in interpreting an NP, one may alwayshave to consider the possibility--probably in parallel with otherpossibilities--that it is a discourse anaphor.
For this alternative,the processor will need to (a) keep track of entities whosespecification the NP may depend on and (b) make appropriateinferences with respect to these entities.
Other forms of contextdependencies will have other implications for processing.
In thispaper, I will touch on processing issues for discourse anaphora,but not other context-dependent phenomena.2.
In earlier work, it was only the former that I discussed under theconcept of Discourse Model.
The notion is not all that differentfrom Kamp's "Discourse Representation Structures" (Kamp1984) or Helm's "File Cards" (Heim 1982).3.
This does not mean that all NPs evoke entities in the listener'sDiscourse Model: for example, I would not want to say that apredicate nominal (as in "John is a neuro-surgeon.")
evokes aseparate ntity.
On the other hand, I do assume that NPs in aquantified context evoke discourse ntities that are accessible astong as that context holds.
For example, "Whenever a philoso-pher debates a computer scientist, the philosopher turns out tohave a naive idea of what the computer scientist is doing.
Ofcourse, the computer scientist always does her best to explain.
"(I thank Rich Thomason for the example.)
Keith Stenning hasalso discussed examples uch as this one.4.
In this use of "specify", I am following Sidner, who used it tomean, essentially, refer in a model, as opposed to refer in theoutside world (cf.
Sidner 1983).5.
Note that a discourse ntity may or may not stand for somereal-world individual or set.
Whether it does or doesn't, how-ever, is irrelevant o these model-based notions of evoke,specify, and co-specify.6.
As with any aspect of discourse that relies on the speaker makingassumptions about the listener's knowledge, those assumptionsmay in some cases be wrong.
Listeners, for their part, try to dotheir best in making sense anyhow--for example, hoping that thefurther discourse will provide enough information to work thingsout.7.
The inferability of a in other cases follows from the ontology ofentities pecified clausally.
This I will touch upon in Section 3.Often a speaker can assume that ct relates an individual to thegeneric lass it belongs to, as in Example 4, or the intension ofa definite description to its extension--or vice versa--as in "ThePresident is elected by the Electoral College.
In the 1964election, he got all but two of the votes."
I am not claiming thatall inferrable a's follow from ontology---only that ontologysanctifies a great many.8.
Nor does it indicate wholesale acceptance of their theory ofdiscc,urse as has so far emerged.
I believe that they would be thefirst to admit that it's a "theory in progress".9.
Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1983) have reinterpreted part ofSidner's work in terms of their theory of centering.
Her DFbecomes their "backward-looking center" Cb and her PFLbecomes their ordered list of "forward-looking centers" Cf.They have proposed heuristics for which entities (Cb and/or Cfs)will be specified pronominally (when specified at all) and for theconsequences for such specification on subsequent C b and Cfs.10.
This jump is not necessary: the DF can stay the same overdiscourse segments for example, discussing the same entityfrom different points of view.l 1.
Dowty 1986 gives an account similar to Hinrichs's in its a prioriassumption of the non-backward-movement of time in simplenarratives and its focus on how different aksionart lead tointerpretation f co-temporal versus ubsequent events.
The twoaccounts differ in how the latter is achieved.
Dowty's accountavoids some problems that Hinrichs's cannot, but still cannotdeal with the fact that time sometimes "moves backwards" evenin sequences of simple past tense.12.
The ontology of an event/situation also includes its role struc-ture.
This latter appears to play a part in possible anaphoricrelations between an NP and an event entity, but not between atensed clause and an event entity.13.
I have not considered other aspectual types in English (such asprogressive) vis-a-vis possible anaphoric relations.
Integratingthe current account with work on aspect and Aktionsarten, \[cf.Moens & Steedman, Passonneau, Hinrichs, Nakhimovsky--thisvolume\] is left to future work.14.
I should also note that Rohrer 1985 suggests hat there may exista set of possible temporal referents, possibly ordered by sa-liency, among which the tense in a sentence may find itsreference time, but doesn't elaborate how.
That is the only thingI have seen that comes close to the current proposal.15.
This is similar to the listener's response to the definite NP theflorist shop, which in the middle of a discourse would have to betaken anaphorically.
At the beginning of a discourse, the listenerwill just create a new discourse ntity.16.
In parallel with this, given /3prep, TF will move incrementallyback into the preparatory phase of the event that was theprevious TF.
Given/3 o, RTb is at the TF and TF does not move.17.
While Sidner and thereafter Grosz & Sidner assume a stack offocus spaces with their associated DFs, each of which isresumable, I do not have evidence that the listener can keeptrack of more than one other node of E/S structure in addition tothe TF.
Resuming any other node seems to require more effort--such as using a when clause.
Hence I assume a single item cachefor the previous value of TF.18.
One could say, in parallel with Sidner 1983, that this E b was apotential focus (PF).
However, I do not postulate a PotentialFocus List as in Sidner, because I do not think there is ever morethan one PF that one can shift to without using a temporaladverbial.19.
This is clearly an inertial strategy', it assumes that the listenerwill prefer to interpret clauses as being in the same discoursesegment, unless forced to do otherwise, say by a continuationsuch as (16c) or a lexical item that signals a possible mbeddednarrative.
This I will discuss later on.
In spoken text, the speakermight give an intonation to (16b) that conveys that it and thefollowing clauses should be understood as an embedded is-course segment.
This would be what breaks the inertia andcauses the listener to shift the TF.20.
~It is rarely the case that one cannot come up with a story linkingtwo events and/or situations.
Thus it would be impossible toreject a hypothesis on grounds of inconsistency.
All one can sayis that one of such stories might~be more plausible than the72 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988Bonnie Lynn Webber Tense as Discourse Anaphorothers by requiring, in some sense not explored here, fewerinferences.
Crain and Steedman 1985 make a similar argumentabout prepositional phrase (PP) attachment.
For example, it isnot impossible for a cat to own a telescope---e.g., by inheritancefrom its former owner.
Thus a cat with a te lescope is not aninconsistent description.
However, it must compete with otherplausible interpretations like seeing with a te lescope in I saw acat with a te lescope.
Thus I assume that interpretations arecomputed in parallel, with the most plausible prediction beingthe one that ends up updating both E/S structure and the TF.21.
Recall my prediction that if any but the most recently cached TFis to be resumed, a cooperative speaker will explicitly indicatethis with a temporal adverbial or a when clause.22.
So is one cue.
In spoken discourse, intonation would be another.Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2, June 1988 73
