ON THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN USER MODELS ANDDISCOURSE MODELSRobin CohenDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of WaterlooWaterloo, Canada N2L 3G1The best way to summarize my view of the relationshipbetween user models and discourse models is that theyare separate, but related to each other.
This paper willshow why the two terms have completely distinctelements, and where the common ground between thetwo lies.
It is also important o acknowledge at theoutset hat the two terms have not been well defined inthe literature.For the discourse model, I am including everythingthat should be derived from an analysis of discourse, topresent a representation for the structure of the dis-course, useful in subsequent responses.
In this sense, Ifocus on the interpretation f a discourse from the pointof view of one of the conversants.
I essentially includein the discourse all the components covered by themodel of Grosz and Sidner (1986).
For the definition ofthe user model, I also ground the discussion in the pointof view of one conversant.
The model is thus an analysisof the other conversant (subsequently referred to as thespeaker).
The term user model is especially obscure,because in the context of this journal it is confined to aderivation of background knowledge and goals of a userwhich influence the language used in the discourse.
(One can use a similar term in the design of graphicalinterfaces, for instance).The discourse model must thus contain the followingkey elements: an indication of the structure of thediscourse and an organization of the objects of the realworld mentioned in the discourse (to help anaphoraresolution, for example).
As soon as this kind of historyof objects is included (covered in the model of Groszand Sidner (1986) by tracking attentional state and theobjects currently in focus), there are elements that arenot specifically attached to the user himself.The structure of the discourse is essentially providedin two different ways.
Which of the actual utterances ofthe discourse group together into logical segments iscovered by the "linguistic structure" of Grosz andSidner (1986).
Often clue words (such as "but anyway")will indicate how to segment the utterances into logicalsegments, without concern for how individual utter-ances within that segment relate.
In addition, there is anindication of the intentional structure.
Here, I wouldreinterpret slightly the term as used in Grosz and Sidner(1986) (see Cohen 1986).
Intentional structure shouldindicate the intentional relations between, again, actualutterances.
For instance, it is important to determinethe cases where the goal underlying an utterance "con-tributes to the satisfaction of" the goal underlyinganother utterance--e.g., getting the hearer to believesome proposition p contributes to the satisfaction ofgetting the hearer to believe some proposition q (deter-mined as dominance relations in Grosz and Sidner(1986).
In this sense, my interpretation f the derivationof intentional structure agrees well with Wahlster'sappeal for an incremental derivation of the discoursemodel).I believe that the intentional structure is related to,but not identical with, the plan of the speaker underly-ing discourse.
For one, the plan of the speaker can bereconstructed at a different level of detail than what isactually uttered.
For an example, see Appendix 1.This leads me to where I feel the discourse model anduser model relate.
The plan of the speaker underlyingdiscourse is one part of the user model and is related tothe intentional structure of the discourse.
But there ismore to the user model as well.
There has been a gooddeal of work on co-operative r sponses (e.g., Joshi et al(1984)).
Van Beek (van Beek and Cohen 1986, van Beek1986) shows that goals and systemwide preferences ofauser can influence appropriate responses (e.g., prefer-ring to take numerical analysis courses in a courseadvisor domain).
It is thus important to include a modelof the user's goals (beyond an understanding of the goalunderlying each individual utterance, useful for thereconstruction f the intentional structure).
This kind ofCopyright 1988 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted providedthat the copies are not made for direct commercial dvantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
Tocopy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613 X/88/0100e-e$03.0088 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 3, September 1988Robin Cohen On the Relationship Between User Models and Discourse Modelsgoal is not part of the discourse per se.
Other importantcomponents of the user model are background knowl-edge of the user (e.g., Cohen and Jones (1988) show thatit is important to vary the response to a parent vs. ateacher in a domain of educational diagnosis; Paris(1985) shows how the form of response can vary accord-ing to the level of expertise; Chin (1986) also uses thelevel of expertise of the user, together with a labeling ofdifficulty of the system's knowledge, to produce goodresponses).
Especially if the user is modeled over aperiod of time, these "values" can change and must bemonitored.The bottom line, I feel, is that what is included in theuser model or the discourse model is dependent on whatthe system employing these models is being designedfor.
(Again, I agree with Wahlster's perception of theproblem--the discussion of what is in the UM or DMcan be guided by how systems hould be designed).I prefer the point of view of a NLUS, taking the roleof a conversant, analyzing the discourse of the speaker(using a model of the user as well as an incrementallybuilt model of the discourse), to be used to eventuallyrespond.
If a representation to facilitate response iswhat is needed, it seems clear that both a picture of thediscourse as it proceeded and an understanding of theperson producing the discourse will be important dis-tinct factors.
Understanding the structure nables thehearer to comprehend the points made by the speaker,to then evaluate and address a response.
Deeper know-ledge of the speaker will then facilitate constructing aresponse that can be well understood (for which the goalof the hearer in producing the response will succeed).For an example, see Appendix 2.I will close with some comments about he terminol-ogy used by Schuster.
I feel that the definition ofdiscourse model here is too narrow--there is more to amodel of discourse than an indication of the underlyingentities (objects, events).
Schuster seems to suggestthat some of the structuring provided in Grosz andSidner (1986) is there only to highlight he entities, Inmy view, the actual utterances themselves are worthexamining as participating in some structure.I also find Schuster's definition for user model--theinformation a system has about the userAsomewhatproblematic.
I think that the user model must concen-trate on dynamic information, that is, which has somepotential for change.
In any case, the informationshould be such that different values make for differentanalyses ( of the discourse where the user model isderived).
Otherwise, why have a model at all?
So if allthe users of a system are male, why record this fact inthe user model for each one?
(My views here thuscoincide with Sparck Jones's claim that a user should bemodeled if there are particular characteristics which sether apart.
)Finally, relevant o Schuster's discussion on agentmodels and user models (see also Wahlster and Kobsa1988; Kass and Finin, this issue), I reiterate that thefocus should be on the user as conversant.
If the topicof conversation is another agent, it is useful to knowabout this person, in the same sense that it is useful toknow about any topic discussed (e.g., the working of anuclear power plant).
(Note that the system's and theuser's view of the topic may not coincide, and thus thisview of the world may need to be modeled of the user aswell).1.
See that screw2.
The one with the funny top3.
Loosen it with the wrench4.
That black wrench there5.
OK--now you can slip in the pliers6.
And the whole pole comes offPlan of Speaker:The top level goal is get pole off, which succeeds if the following hierarchy of subgoals ucceeds:get po~ off ~ _loosen screw with wrench -~" slip in pliersidenti~/scr/ew ~ identify wrenchknow chars, of screw know c'~hars, of wrenchIntentional structure of discourse (as in Grosz and Sidner 1986):Primary Intentions:I1: intend H (get pole off);I2: intend H (loosen screw with wrench)I3: intend H (identify screw)Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 3, September 1988 89Robin Cohen On the Relationship Between User Models and Discourse ModelsSegmentation Structure:( ( ( 1 2 (ds3)) 3 4 (ds2)) 5 6 (ds l ) )There are three segments: ds3 with 13, ds2 with 12, and dsl with I1, where 12 DOM 13 and I1 DOM 12 (i.e.13 contributes to the satisfaction of 12, etc.
)There are two main sources of difference between theplan of the speaker and the intentional structure ofdiscourse, illustrated by the above example: (i) theremay be no direct match from the utterances to the units(subgoals) of the plan; here, there is no utterancecorresponding to "identify wrench" ,  on top of utter-ance 4, which serves to let the hearer "know charac-teristics of the wrench";  (ii) the intentions recorded forthe intentional structure may be at a higher level ofdetail.The examples provided in Grosz and Sidner (1986),for instance, only record those attached to segments ofmore than one utterance.
There are, indeed, many issuesregarding the relationship of plans and discourse struc-ture; we will not elaborate further here.
Our main point isthat the two terms should be related, but distinct.Appendix 1.
Plans vs.
Intentional Structure.Example:2.
I.
Prime Minister Mulroney is wonderful.2.
He refuses to back off on the free trade plan.2b.
1.
Prime Minister Mulroney is wonderful.2.
For example, he refuses to back off on the freetrade plan.In Example 2b, the structure of the discourse, indicatedby the connecting phrase " for  example" ,  suggests anintentional connection between (1) and (2).
(One way toview this discourse is as an argument where the speakerutters (2) in order to get the hearer to believe (1)).
Cluewords alone may provide a basis for the determinationof the segmentation of this small example.Now, if we also know of the speaker (or derive, onthe basis of the likely intended connection above) thathe is an arch-conservative, we have additional informa-tion to facilitate response.
One such rejoinder might be:2c.
Yes, but won't  this prevent big private compa-nies from making lots of money?This rejoinder would not be appropriate for a fiery laborsupporter (e.g., New Democrat,  in Canadian politics).Example 2 is also a case where having a model of theuser's beliefs (e.g., he's an arch-conservative stereo-type) may facilitate derivation of the intended structureof the discourse, in the absence of clue words.
This thusalso argues for inclusion in the user model informationadditional to the structure of discourse determined sofar.Appendix 2.
Using Discourse Structure and User Models for Response.REFERENCESChin, D. N. 1986 User Modeling in UC, the UNIX Consultant.
InProceedings of the Conference on Human Factors in ComputingSystems, Boston, MA: 24-28.Cohen, R. 1986 An Incremental Model for Discourse Analysis.Unpublished raft, Department ofComputer Science, Universityof Waterloo, Canada.Cohen, R. and Jones, M. 1988 Incorporating User Models into ExpertSystems for Educational Diagnosis.
In Kobsa, A. and Wahlster,W.
(eds.
), User Models in Dialog Systems.
Springer-Verlag,Berlin--New York.Grosz, B. and Sidner, C. 1986 Attention, Intentions, and the Structureof Discourse.
In Computational Linguistics 12: 175-204.Joshi, A.; Webber, B. and Weischedel, R. M. 1984 Living up toExpectations: Computing Expert Responses.
In Proceedings ofthe National Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Stanford, CA:169-175.Kass, R, and Finin, T. (this issue): Modeling the User in NaturalLanguage Systems.Paris, C. L. 1985 Description Strategies for Naive and Expert Users.In Proceedings of the 23rd Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Chicago, IL: 238-246.van Beek, P. 1986 A Model for User Specific Explanation from ExpertSystems.
M. Math.
thesis, Technical Report CS-86-42, Depart-ment of Computer Science, University of Waterloo, Canada.van Beek, P. and Cohen, R. 1986 Towards User Specific ExplanationSystems.
In Proceedings of the 6th Canadian Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Montreal, Canada: 194-198.Wahlster, W. and Kobsa, A.
1988 User Models in Dialog Systems.
InKobsa, A. and Wahlster, W.
(eds.
), User Models in DialogSystems.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin--New York.90 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 3, September 1988
