USER MODELS AND DISCOURSE MODELSDavid N. ChinDepartment of Information and Computer ServicesUniversity of Hawaii at Manoa2565 The MallHonolulu, HI 96822A user model (UM) contains information about users,such as users' goals, beliefs, knowledge, preferences,and capabilities.
A discourse model (DM) containsinformation about he conversation, such as the linguis-tic structure, the attentional state, and the intentionalstructure \[Grosz and Sidner 1986).
Given these defini-tions, I will argue that the UM intersects the DM.
Thatis, the UM contains items that are missing from the UM;the DM contains items that are missing from the DM;and the two share some items.First, Schuster (1987) argues convincingly that theUM contains items that are missing from the DM.
Thisis especially evident in cases where the speaker andlistener have a long association, and hence the speakerhas a large amount of prior knowledge about he listenerwhich is stored in the speaker's UM of the listener.However, this information is not present in the DM,which starts off empty.Next, the DM contains items that are missing fromthe UM.
To support this argument, I will cite anexample given by Wahlster.
Suppose the speaker men-tions a long list of names that is not familiar to thelistener.
Then the speaker knows that the listenercannot know nameX, which is a particular name in themiddle of the list.
This is represented in the speaker'sUM of the listener.
However, nameX is in the linguisticstructure of the speaker's DM since nameX was part ofthe discourse.
Thus part of the linguistic structure of theDM is not represented in the UM.Actually, Wahlster interprets his example as an ar-gument that the DM and the UM must be different.
Heargues that since nameX is in the DM, then the UMmust be different, or else the speaker could not repre-sent the fact that the user does not know nameX.
Thisargument misses a crucial point.
Although it is true thatthe names are listed in the linguistic structure of theDM, these names are not present in the attentionalstructure of the DM.
Since the attentional structure ofthe DM is that part of the DM which represents objects,properties, and relations with which the user is familiar,this is the proper part of the DM to compare with theUM.
To show that these names are not in the attentionalstructure of the DM, consider whether it is possible touse a pronoun to refer to nameX.
If all of the othernames were male, and nameX were female, then thespeaker should be able to use the pronoun "she" inplace of nameX.
However, human speakers generallywould not use such a pronoun.
So there is no disagree-ment between the attentional structure of the speaker'sDM and the speaker's UM of the listener.Not only is there no disagreement between the atten-tional structure of the DM and the UM, but I would liketo argue that the items in the attentional structure of theDM are part of the UM.
Take the related example ofwhen the speaker introduces a person's name, nameX,unknown to the listener.
In this case, the DM modelrepresents he fact that nameX is the name of a personand that nameX refers to some person.
Later, thespeaker can use either nameX to refer to this person, ora pronoun.
Likewise in the UM, the speaker representsthe fact that the listener knows nameX refers to someunknown person, and represents the fact that the lis-tener does not know the person referred to by nameX.In this example, the contents of the attentional structureof the DM is a subset of the UM.Another part of the DM that intersects with the UMis the intentional structure of the DM.
The intentionalstructure is made up of the immediate goals of the useras expressed in the user's utterances plus some higherlevel goals.
These are also present by definition in theUM.Another compelling argument for the view that theDM intersects the UM is the phenomenon of multi-speaker discourses.
In multispeaker discourses, eachspeaker needs to keep not only a separate UM for eachlistener, but also a separate DM for each participant.For example, consider the following dialog among threepeople debugging a circuit board.Copyright 1988 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted providedthat the copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
Tocopy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/88/0100e-e$03.0086 Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 3, September 1988David N. Chin User Models and Discourse ModelsTom: The 777 timer is really heating up.Dick: Let's check it.Tom (whose hands are full): OK. Dick, could youcheck the frequency at the output pin.
Harry,could you check the voltage at the power pin here.
(Tom points to the power pin.
)Tom and Dick are experts, while Harry knows littleabout hardware.
Tom knows this, so Tom has a sepa-rate DM for Dick and Harry.
In Tom's DM for Dick,Dick's attentional state includes the 777 timer in hisfocus space.
However,  since Tom knows that Harrycannot identify a 777 timer, the timer is not in Tom'sDM for Harry.
So, when Tom tells Dick to check thefrequency at the output pin, Tom knows that Dick willunderstand this referent.
On the other hand, Harrywould not know the referent of the power pin, so Tompoints this out to Harry.If there were only a single DM for the entire conver-sation, then Tom would not be able to represent thedifferent attentional states of Dick and Harry.
Thisargues for the view that DMs are user dependent andhence are subparts of UMs.In some sense, the above scenario is somewhataberrant in that usually speakers assume that theirlisteners hare the same attentional state.
So it may bemore efficient o only represent the separate attentionalstates of different listeners as differences from thenorm.
Thus in most cases, the list of differences wouldbe very small and the efficiency would be effectively thesame as having only one DM.Although the DM and UM share some data, they areused for fairly different purposes.
DMs are used in thegeneration and understanding of references uch asnoun phrases and pronouns.
DMs are also used in thegeneration and understanding of connectives uch ascue words and phrases.
On the other hand, UMs mainlyused in deciding how to respond to the user.
Forexample, UMs are useful for detecting user misconcep-tions (McCoy 1983, 1985) and deciding which conceptsneed to be explained to the user (Chin 1986).
Sometimesthese differences lead to the confusion that the datastored in UMs and DMs must be different, since theirapplications are so different.Another difference between UMs and DMs is in howthey are built up.
Although both DMs and UMs are builtup from propositions expressed in the conversation, theDM expires at the end of the discourse, while parts ofthe UM are kept for future use.
Grosz and Sidner (1986)discuss how DMs are built up, and Chin (1986), Litmanand Allen (1984), Carberry (1983), and Allen and Per-rault (1980), among others, discuss this process fordifferent aspects of UMs.In summary, the DM and UM are not separate, butrather share common parts.
Shared parts include theintentional structure of the discourse and the attentionalstructure of the discourse.
In addition, the DM containsthe linguistic structure of the discourse, which is notpresent in the UM.
Likewise, the UM contains manyitems that are not present in the DM.
These includefacts about the user which were learned in previou sdialogs and uncertain facts that were inferred fromstereotypes to which the user belongs.REFERENCESAllen, J.F.
and Perrault C.R.
1980 Analyzing Intention in Utterances.In Artificial Intelligence 15:143-178.Carberry, S. 1983 Tracking User Goals in an Information-SeekingEnvironment.
In Proceedings of the 3rd National Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Washington, DC: 59--63.Chin, D.N.
1986 User Modeling in UC, the UNIX Consultant.
InProceedings of the Conference on Human Factors in ComputingSystems, Boston, MA:24-28.Grosz, B. and Sidner C. 1986 Attention, Intentions, and the Structureof Discourse.
In Computational Linguistics 12: 175-204.Litman, D.J.
and Allen J.F.
1984 A Plan Recognition Model forClarification Sub-dialogues.
In Proceedings of the lOth Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguistics and 22nd AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, Stan-ford University, Stanford, CA" 302-311.McCoy, K.F.
1983 Correcting Misconceptions: What o Say When theUser is Mistaken.
In Proceedings of the Conference on HumanFactors in Computing Systems, Boston, MA: 197-201.McCoy, K.F.
1985 Correcting Object-Related Misconceptions.
Ph.D.thesis, MS-CIS-85-57, Department ofComputer and InformationScience, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.McKeown, K.R.
; Wish, M.; and Matthews, K. 1985 Tailoring Expla-nations for the User.
In Proceedings of the 9th International JointConference on Artificial Intelligence, Los Angeles, CA:794-798.Wahlster, W. and Kobsa A.
1988 User Models in Dialog Systems.
InKobsa A. and Wahlster W.
(eds.
), User Models in Dialog Systems,Springer-Verlag, Berlin--New York.Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 3, September 1988 87
