NON-S INGULAR CONCEPTS IN NATURAL LANGUAGE D ISCOURSETomek StrzalkowskiDepartment of Computer ScienceCourant Institute of Mathematical SciencesNew York University251 Mercer St.New York, NY 10012 U.S.A.Nick CerconeCentre for System ScienceSchool of Computing ScienceSimon Fraser UniversityBurnaby, British Columbia VSA IS6 CanadaWe introduce a new approach to representing and manipulating various types of non-singular conceptsin natural language discourse.
The representation we describe is based on a partially ordered structureof levels in which the objects of the same relative singularity are assigned to the same level.
Our choiceof the representation has been motivated by the following main concerns: I.
The representation shouldsystematically distinguish between those language terms that are used to refer to objects of differentsingularity, that is, those classified within different but related levels of the model; 2.
The representationshould capture certain types of inter-sentential dependencies in discourse, most notably anaphoric-typecohesive links; 3.
Finally, the representation should serve as a basis for defining a formal semantics ofdiscourse paragraphs that would allow for capturing the exact truth conditions of sentences involvingnon-singular terms, and for computing interlevel inferences.
In this paper we discuss (I) and (2) only.
(3) is currently under investigation and will be the topic of a forthcoming article.
We believe that ourapproach promotes computational feasibility, because we avoid the identification of general terms, like"temperature," "water," etc., with intensions, that is, functions over possible worlds.
In our theory,the concept of non-singularity has a local (often subjective) character.1 INTRODUCTIONTreating non-singular concepts is a difficult representa-tion problem in natural language research.
Non-singularconcepts, as we shall understand them here, are oftenabstract entities created to embrace a variety of smalleror larger collections of "instances" or "specimen.
"They are usually referred to using bare plural nounphrases (such as birds, alligators, presidents), or defi-nite singular noun phrases with "generic" interpreta-tion (the alligator, the president).
The literature de-scribes numerous forms of non-singular concepts andcorresponding to them non-singular terms that can befound in natural anguage discourse, including inten-sional (or functional), mass, generic, habitual, abstract,and more; see, for example, Montague (1974a), Lewis(1976), Barwise and Perry (1983), Quine (1960), Donnel-lan (1971), Vendler (1971), and Kripke (1972).
In theseand other writings, various treatments for the phenom-enon are suggested, but many of them do not properlycapture the distinction between singular and non-sin-gular interpretation f linguistic descriptions.
With theexception of intensional concepts, other forms of non-singularity have not been given satisfactory formalrepresentations that would account for their role innatural language discourse.
Perhaps the most successfultreatment ofnon-singular terms in language thus far hasbeen presented by Montague (1974a-d) with his formal-ization of intension, which can be traced back to theFregean otion of sense.
Unfortunately, the concept ofintension does not capture all aspects of non-singu-Copyright 1989 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission tocopy without fee all or part of this material is granted providedthat he copies are not made for direct commercial advantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
Tocopy otherwise, orto republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/89/010171-186503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989 171Tomek Strzaikowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts inNatural Language Discourselarity, for example, bare plurals denoting kinds cannotbe adequately represented in Montague's intensionallogic (IL) without some superficial, and often unplausi-ble, extensions (Carlson 1977, 1982).
In addition, theenormous complexity of any non-trivial system of pos-sible worlds has proven to be disadvantageous fordeveloping a computationally oriented application ofMontague's theory (Strzalkowski and Cercone 1986).
1In this paper we do not attempt o improve on Mon-tague's grammar; in fact, our approach does, in part,rely on Montague's method of coupling the syntacticand semantic processing in order to assign to a sentenceits meaning or at least a meaning-representing formula.Nonetheless, we also perceive the limitations of Mon-tague's method.
It is not our intention here to build analternative formal system for a fragment of English thatwould replace that of Montague's.
Instead, we proposea computationally oriented approach to certain prob-lems with which Montague dealt only marginally or notat all.
However informal our presentation may be, wemake some effort to put things into a clear, semiformalsetting.
As various aspects of out theory crystalize, weexpect a more formal version to emerge.We introduce a fragment of a new and, we believe,computationally feasible theory of names and descrip-tions, which offers a uniform treatment for many typesof non-singular concepts found in natural languagediscourse.
Although we limit our presentation to nomi-nal phrase constructions, the approach can be furtherextended to cover other types of phrases.
We presentthe formal definition of non-singularity with respect to aparticular discourse situation involving adiscourse mes-sage; a number of individuals (parties); and their knowl-edge, beliefs, awareness, etc.
We introduce a layeredmodel of reality (the universe) as perceived by a dis-course participant, and define relative singularity ofobjects in this universe as an abstraction class of thelayer-membership relation.
Subsequently, linguistic de-scriptions and names are classified as singular, measur-ably singular, or non-singular depending upon what theyare assumed to denote in the universe.
The relationshipbetween objects referred to in discourse and classifiedinto different layers (levels) of the universe model has aparticular significance for resolution of certain types ofcohesive links in text.
We call these links remotereferences because they cross level boundaries.
In orderto adequately explain the phenomenon of a remotereference, we propose a fairly general theory of namesand descriptions indiscourse.
Although the theory lacksa complete formal specification at this time, we intro-duce a number of notions, such as a superohject and acoordinate, that, we believe, will prove helpful in furtherformalization of various intuitions presented here.In its present form, our theory focuses entirely on theproblems of non-singularity and remote references indiscourse that are created by the use of definite descrip-tions, bare plurals, and proper names.
We do notdescribe in detail how one could actually computeremote references in discourse, except for two generalrules introduced in Section 6.
These rules, and perhapssome others yet to be developed, create a naturalexpansion of tlhe system for computing intersententialanaphoric references described in Strzalkowski andCercone (1986).
Except for a brief overview in Section2, we do not discuss many related phenomena, such asnon-remote (or single level) references, opaque read-ings, non-referential interpretations, use of personalpronouns, and the like.
The more general theory ofstratified meaning representation (Strzalkowski 1986)addresses all of these concerns, as well as the problemsof discourse coherence, selecting proper cohesive linksin discourse, and building a discourse model.2 COMPUTING INTERSENTENTIAL DEPENDENCIES INDISCOURSEA first step toward automating the process of discourseunderstanding is to grasp the meaning contents of thediscourse message, at least the literal meaning.
A dis-course normally consists of more than a single utter-ance, and although every utterance may be assumed tocontribul:e something to the discourse meaning as awhole, this latter can only rarely be regarded as a simplesum of meanings of component utterances.
Utterances,or sentences, making up a discourse are usually in-volved in complicated mutual dependencies, that oftengo beyond the text itself.
A careful study of theseextrasentential and intersentential dependencies in dis-course is necessary before a more successful attempt todesign an automated iscourse understanding systemcan be undertaken.In Strzalkowski (1986) and Strzalkowski and Cer-cone (1986) we introduced a rigorous method for han-dling certain cases of extrasentential dependencies indiscourse, within a general framework, which we callthe Stratified Model.
The Stratified Model comprises acollection of disambiguating transformations that areapplied to a discourse fragment before it can be assigneda final representation.
These transformations includemorphological nalysis, lexical disambiguation, syntac-tic parsing, computing extrasentential dependencies,and pragmatic evaluation i  discourse context.
In orderto compute anaphoric, and other, dependencies be-tween sentences in a discourse fragment, we first trans-late each sentence in the fragment into an intermediate,formal representation language.
We call these transla-tions literal or "context-less" because they are derivedbased solely on sentences' yntactic structure.
In fact,this transformation is done Montague-style (Montague1974d) except for the intermediate r presentation,which, in the Stratified Model, is a A-categorial languageA, rather than an intensional logic.
For this presentationit is enough to say that A is a typed predicate-calculuslanguage: with A-operator.
A formal definition of A isgiven in Strzalkowski and Cercone (1986).
Next, we172 Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts in Natural Language Discourseproceed to compute various contextual dependencies ofsentences, including extrasentential anaphoric links.Let L be a language of parse structures obtained insome grammar of a fragment of English.
For the pur-pose of this presentation, L is identified with the set ofphrase markers that can be generated from Englishsentences with a categorial grammar CAT similar to thatof Montague (1974).
Although some other syntacticsystem may be more suitable in practical application,we select CAT here for its relative simplicity andelegance.
We concentrate on the translation of someexample xpressions, entences, and paragraphs of Linto a representation in a A-categorial language A thatwould capture both a sentence's logical form and itscohesive links to the surrounding discourse.
In partic-ular, we shall look closely at the cohesive links createdby inter-sentential naphoric references appearing indifferent contextual situations.A possesses adequate xpressive power to representthe meaning of a considerable spectrum of linguisticconstructs found in a natural language discourse.
Whatis of a particular interest to us, A provides a natural anduniform means for computing and representing extra-sentential dependencies.
As we shall see in the nextsection, a meaning representation language so-definedis still inadequate for capturing some more difficultcases, which we call remote co-references.Our present effort is to describe atransformation ISDsuch that ISD _C L ?
A, and whenever a sourceexpression in L consists of more than one sentence, aclass of intersentential dependencies within this frag-ment is identified and resolved, if possible.
It must benoted here that ISD represents a semantic process thatis entirely independent, of any pragmatic or domainrelated factors.
As a result a substantial amount ofdomain oriented ambiguity may be left unresolved.
Inany practical application, this transformation must beaccompanied by a pragmatic process, as described inStrzalkowski (1986).
ISD consists of a collection oftranslation rules {R1, R2 .
.
.
.
}, such that each rule isresponsible for translating a specific type of depen-dency.
Actually, only Rule 1 works directly on expres-sions of L, translating them into literal representationsin A, independent of one another.
Rules numbered 2 andup will take these literal translations and try to relatethem pairwise looking, among other things, for unre-solved anaphoric references.
Most of these rules can bewritten in terms of two distinguished expressions of A,S 1 and S 2, which we call the context-setting sentence andthe current sentence, respectively.
Expression S 1 is aA-representation f the linguistic ontext in which thesentence with translation S 2 is to be evaluated.
Neither$1 nor S 2 must correspond to surface sentences, though.S~ may represent a larger part of discourse, perhaps anentire paragraph; on the other hand, S 2 may constituteonly a subclause of S l in which case we would talk ofintra-sentential dependency.
It should be noted herethat the potentially explosive number of possibilitieswill be in fact limited by the actual structure of thediscourse under consideration (see, among others,Grosz and Sidner 1985), as well as by the pragmatic anddomain related information, not discussed here.Let us now consider a two sentence paragraph givenbelow:$1: John interviewed a candidate.$2: The guy had impressive references.In the most natural reading of this paragraph, theanaphor of "the guy" is resolved against "a candidate"in the first sentence, so that the second sentenceactually means: "the guy whom John interviewed hadimpressive references."
When considered separatelyfrom one another, $1 and S 2 obtain the following trans-lations into A.S~ ~ 3x\[cand(x) & int(J,x)\]S 2 ~ 3x\[guy(x) & C(x) & Vy\[(guy(y) & C(y)) D(x=y)\] & had-imp-ref(x)\]In the translation of S 2, C is a free predicate variablethat needs to be bound by the sentence's context.
Thecontext variable is introduced into the translation of adefinite noun phrase containing a definite article, suchas "the," by Rule 1 (Strzalkowski 1986, Strzalkowskiand Cercone 1986).
This rule generates literal transla-tions of sentences without considering their context,and does so in PTQ-style, that is, by assigning to eachsyntactic operation in CAT a formula formatting oper-ation in A (Montague 1974a).
The next step is to resolvecontext references; we must find a binding for C occur-ring in S 2 in the context provided by $1 in order toobtain the final translation of the former.
This intersen-tential dependency is captured by the translation Rule 2,which operates on the literal translations of both sen-tences delivered by Rule 1 (Strzalkowski and Cercone1986).
In the example above, the second sentenceobtains the desired translation as shown below.3x \[guy(x) & cand(x) & int(J, x) & had-imp-ref(x)& Vy \[{guy(y) & cand(y) & int(J,y)} D (x=y)\]\]Rule 2 (Perfect-Context Translation Rule):I f  the context-setting sentence S 1 has a referentialinterpretation i the form3u\[P(u) & F(u)\],and the current sentence S2 contains an unresolveddefinite anaphor, that is,S 2 : :qu I f (u )  ?~ Pl(u) & Fl(u ) & V x \[{Pt(x) &C(x)} ~ (x=u)\]\],then this anaphor can be resolved against S~, and theresulting translation of S 2 is obtained asAC\[S2\](Au\[P(u) & F(u)\]).A somewhat different problem arises when we considera fragment with a possible non-referential interpreta-tion, as inI'/3mComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Nou-Singular Concepts in Natural Language DiscourseJohn wants to marry a princess.
The girl must be richand pretty.Now, Rule 2 can compute the anaphoric link between"the girl" and "a princess" only if both sentencesreceive their referential interpretations.
In a case whereboth sentences are understood non-referentially, wehave to use Rule 3, given below.
No other combinationsare possible.Rule 3 (Imperfect-Context Translation Rule):I f  the context-setting sentence S I has a non-referen-tial interpretation i the formimp (3u \[P(u) & F(u)\]),where imp is an imperfect operator, and the currentsentence S 2, also in a non-referential interpretation,contains a definite anaphor which occurs in scope ofan imperfect operator imp1 i.e.,$2 = imp1 (3u \[C(u) & Pl(u) & Fl(u) &Vx \[{PI (x) & C(x)} 3 (x=u)\]\],then this anaphor can be resolved against St, withthe resulting translation of S e derived asAC\[S2\](Au\[P(u ) & F(u)\]).Rule 3 encompasses a large class of non-referentialcontexts, which we call imperfect contexts, and whichinvolve constructs including propositional attitudes(want, try, wish), intensional verbs (seek, conceive,think about), other complement-taking verbs (go,come), modal verbs (must, can, will), as well as pro-gressive tense forms.
In Rule 3, all this is reduced to theformula with the imp operator which translates com-pound phrases, such as "John wants," or "John will.
"Thus, in the example given above, Rule 3 is applicablewhen both sentences contain a wide scope imp opera-tor.
In this case, the second sentence of the fragmentobtains the full translation with the following formula:must(3x \[gir/(x) & princess(x) & marries(J,x) &rich(x) & pretty(x) & Vy \[{girl(y) & princess(y) &marries(J,y)} D (x=y)\]\])Other studied cases of intersentential naphora (seeStrzalkowski 1986a-c, Strzalkowski and Cercone 1986)include non-referential nterpretation f discourse frag-ments involving attitude report verbs (believe, know,disagree).
These cannot be translated with Rule 3, and anew rule, Rule 4, is developed to compute anaphoriclinks in texts similar to the one given below.John believes that a unicorn lives in the park.He thinks the creature has a long horn.Rules 5, 6, and 7 account for the pronominal naphora,Rule 10 deals with certain instances of attributive use ofdefinite noun phrases.
Rules 8 and 9 are used when theantecedent ofan anaphor is a proper name rather than adescription.
This is the situation where an interestingtype of referential ambiguity occurs whose resolutionmay have far reaching consequences on the process ofdiscourse understanding.Rule 9 (Names as Ultimate Referents):I f  the context-setting sentence S1 has the form ofFI(N) where N is an individual constant denoting aname, and the current sentence S 2 contains a definiteanaphor, so that its literal translation has the formS 2 = 3x \[P(x) & C(x) & F 2 (x) & Vy \[{P(y) &C(y)) ~ (x=y)\]\],then the anaphor can be resolved against N as itsultimate referent with the following derivation:xplp( N) \]( Xx\[ :tC\[ S2\]( Xs\[ R(s) \]) \])where \]V is the predicative use of name N.In the following fragment,Sylvester tries to catch a bird.
The cat is clumsy.there are two possible ways of linking "the cat" with"Sylvester."
In one reading, not very different fromthose processed with Rule 2, the definite anaphor refersprimarily to the entity that can be described as "the onewho tries to catch a bird," and only contingently to itsname.
In this case we acquire some new informationabout Sylvester, namely that it is a cat.
In the otherpossible reading, the anaphor efers to the name only,and thu,; may draw on some context hat is differentfrom the first sentence in the fragment.
This lattersituation is handled by Rule 9.
In the above fragment,Rule 9 would produce the following translation for "thecat is clumsy" (S is an individual constant denoting theindividual named Sylvester, and Syl(x) means that x'sname is Sylvester):cat(S) & Syl(S) & clumsy(S) & Vx \[{cat(x) &Syl(x)} 3 (x=S)\]There are more aspects of ISD transformation that meritattention.
These include rules for dealing with otherkinds of anaphora not discussed here, elliptical con-structions, enumerably singular (plural) terms, intrasen-tential anaphora, and non-anaphoric dependencies, aswell as indirect and forward reference cases whereaccess to the speaker/hearer knowledge base may berequired.
We also have to deal with the changingreference level.3 NON-SINGULAR TERMS IN DISCOURSEThe rules discussed in Section 2 cover selected cases ofintersentential naphora where the reference level indiscourse does not change from one sentence to an-other.
There exists, however, a class of intersententialdependencies whereby a reference is made acrossboundm'ies of different reference levels in discourse.For example, inMy new pet is an alligator.
But the alligator cannotlive in our climate.174 Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts inNatural Language Discourse"the alligator" in the second sentence most likely refersto a generic object of which the alligator in the firstsentence is an instance or extension.
Thus we can saythat the second alligator is a non-singular superobject inwhich the first alligator somehow participates.
Theextent of such participation is not clear, but in general itcan be observed that certain predications true of com-plexes of different kind are not preserved for their partsor elements, and vice versa.
To represent this new kindof intersentential dependency we introduce a multilevelmodel for interpreting natural language expressions,such that the levels in the model would correspond(roughly) to the levels of reference in discourse.
Forinstance, in the example above, the resulting represen-tation would have both alligators placed at different,though related, "object levels."
Because of an inherentsubjectivity of such classifications, the levels in themodel may have fuzzy boundaries and are only partiallyordered with the "lower than" (i.e., "more detailedthan") relation with respect to some current level(corresponding to the level of reference at a presentpoint in discourse).Consider now a somewhat larger fragment of text,excerpted from an article appearing in The New Yorkermagazine.The two Ashanti kings are in somewhat differentsituations: the Ghanaian king is royally born, richlyrewarded, divinely inspired and holds his office forlife.
The American Ashanti king is elected every twoyears from the ranks of an Ashanti social and culturalorganization called the Asanteman Association of theUnited States of America, Inc.
The first Statesideking, Kwadwo Tuffuor, was a plumber.
The second,Kusi Appouh, repaired air-conditioners and refriger-ators.
Kwabena Oppong is the third king; he drives acab.
2The first two sentences in this fragment contain directreferences to the higher-level entities, which are the twoAshanti kings, as if they were ordinary singular objects.The remaining three sentences directly refer to theentities that are instances of one of these kings, nowseen as superobjects, at different time intervals.
Thediscourse reference level has changed, and now we talkabout lower-level entities.
The superobjects can still bereferred to, but only indirectly, through their instances;this is what we call the remote reference.The primitive notions of our theory are these of asingular object and a coordinate, a usually ordered setspecifying a type of dimension that the object in ques-tion spans.
A singular object is any entity to which wecan directly refer using a nominal phrase of our lan-guage.
The most common of the coordinates are timeand space but other more abstract ones are also possi-ble.
These two basic notions are then used to define thenotion of the object's instance with respect o somecoordinate.
Thus the pet aligator in the example aboveis related to the generic concept of alligator by somespecies coordinate that somehow ties (or enumerates?
)all alligators around the world.
Similarly, if we use anappropriate coordinate consisting of two-year intervalswe can decompose the American Ashanti king into itselected instances.
If we reverse this process we cancombine objects into complexes to which we can sub-sequently refer using collective terms, singular or plu-ral, such as, for example, "people" or "the man"(generic).
The lower than relation between levels in theuniverse model derives from expanding the notion ofinstance over collections of objects.
The relation intro-duces a partial ordering within the universe model andthus helps to trace changes in the reference level ofdiscourse.
The highly discrete approach taken here isfavorably contrasted with other existing approaches tonon-singular terms, including Quine (1960), Kripke(1972), Montague (1974), Carlson (1982), and others.While insights of Quine, Kripke and, perhaps even moreso, Carlson are undoubtedly of great influence, theyrequire reworking in more discrete terms.
Finally, wemay note that the research in artificial intelligence andcomputational linguistics has devoted relatively littleattention to treatment of non-singular terms in naturallanguage in general and in natural anguage discourse inparticular; see, however, Sidner (1979) for some earlyattempts to recognize generics in discourse.
One of thegoals of the present research is to fill this gap.4 NON-SINGULAR TERMS IN LANGUAGEMany philosophers and logicians, Quine (1960), Kripke(1972), Donnellan (1971), Vendler (1971), Montague(1974), and Barwise and Perry (1983), note that theusage of the italicized nominal phrases in Example 1 hasa general or generic haracter, except for regular singu-lar interpretations, which are only possible in somecases.Example 1.la.
The king wears a crown.lb.
The president is elected every four years.lc.
Gold is a yellow metal.Id.
Temperature is a measure of molecular motion.Hundreds of similar examples involving such non-sin-gular terms, and corresponding non-singular objects, aswater, heat, the Pope, the number, etc.
can be devised.Unfortunately, there is no generally accepted accountof these non-singular terms in the philosophical litera-ture.
Some authors, for example, Vendler (1971) andBarwise and Perry (1983), cautiously called them ge-neric, or general (for example, "the king"), or func-tional (such as "the number of students," the temper-ature") uses of definite descriptions.
Other authors, forexample, Kripke (1972), were quite close to consideringthese kinds of non-singular terms as names (or at leastsome of them: heat, gold).
Still other authors writing onthe subject, for example, Quine (1960, 1973), advocatedthe notion of abstract erms as comprising of attributes,such as (being) red (further abstracted as "redness"), orComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989 175Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts in Natural Language Discourse(being) the man drinking the martini (which cannot beso easily nominalized), which can be predicated of"concrete" objects.
If we consider this discussion, theso-called "attributive use" of singular definite descrip-tions as identified by Donnellan (1971), may be consid-ered as addressing some abstract, higher-level, andtherefore (in our interpretation) on-singular concepts.Carlson (1982) discusses the case of so-called "naturalkinds," a specific type among generic terms.
He advo-cates the view in which generic terms are taken asdenoting entities in the same way that singular terms do.If we accept Carlson's position, then our ontology ofobjects becomes far richer than before, and we need toimpose more structure on our representation to reflectthis new situation accurately.
Indeed, Carlson intro-duces a special R relation into Montague's IL whichallows him to create individual objects out of genericobjects, as well as stages out of ordinary singularobjects.
Thus, "Max believes that dogs are here"receives the following translation, where m and d areindividual constants denoting Max and dog kind, re-spectively (Carlson 1977):Ax\[Bel(^3y\[R(y, x) & here'(y)\](m)\](d)This formula says that Max believes that some stages ofdog-kind are here.
One problem with this representationis that we have no idea how these stages are to beidentified, in other words, how do we decompose akind-level object into stage-level individuals.
If othertypes of non-singular terms denote in similar fashion,then we may need an even more complex model inwhich various stages (or levels) of object aggregationcan be reflected.Quine (1960) presents the most comprehensive ac-count of various categories of terms found amongnatural language expressions.
Almost everything thatone can say is made up of different kinds of terms,appropriately connected to yield meaningful utterances,which he classifies as singular, general, relative, ab-stract, attributive, etc.
At present, we do not draw suchfine distinctions in our classification, reserving the rightto develop extensions along the lines of Quine asneeded.
We present a few examples to provide addi-tional insight and lay the foundation for our theory ofnames and descriptions.There are numerous linguistic puzzles involving non-singular definite descriptions, among them Partee's(1972) famous temperature problem.
Example 2 illus-trates this phenomenon.Example 22a.
The temperature is rising.The temperature is ninety.Thus, Ninety is rising.
32b.
The president is elected every four years.The president is Reagan.Thus, Reagan is elected every four years.2c.
The tiger lives in the jungle.My pet is a tiger.Thus, My pet lives in the jungle.2d.
Americans drive big cars.John is an American.Thus, John drives big cars/a big car.The arguments in (2a-d) are normally considered in-valid.
Various researchers agree that the definite de-scriptions "the temperature," "the president," and"the tiger" in the first sentences of (2a-c) should beinterpreted functionally, that is, as intensions (Mon-tague 1974d), or functions over situations (Barwise andPerry 1983).
Note that if the descriptions were to beinterpreted singularly or as enumerating all instances ofa non-singular object (that is, statements containingthem were understood as making claims about eachinstance), the reasoning would be valid.
In (2d) thesituation is somewhat more complicated, because veryextension of tile entity in the denotation of Americans iitself a compound entity, namely a generic entity.
Thus,intensionality alone cannot explain why the first twosentences in (2d) appear connected.
As a matter of fact,the reasoning displayed in (2d) is far more acceptablethat those in (2a) to (2c).
The reason, it seems, lies inour reluctance to apply singular interpretations to non-singular terms in first sentences of (2a-c), while thissame move is more likely in (2d).
In other words, while(2b') is an unlikely interpretation of (2b), (2d') canoccasionally be accepted as a simplified version of (2d).2b'.
Every president is elected every four years.\]Reagan is the president.Thus, Reagan is elected every four years.2d'.
\]Every American drives big cars/a big car.John is an American.Thus, John drives big cars/a big car.Of course, (2a) and (2b), but not (2c) or (2d), could bevalid if the definite noun phrases in the second sen-tences (the temperature, the president) were understoodas co-referential with appropriate noun phrases in thefirst sentences.
This avenue is also closed, however,because we do not regard these phrases as co-referen-tial, that is, they cannot be substituted for one another,nor cant be their denotations.
Compare this with (2e)below, where the co-reference between "carnivorousanimals" and "these beasts" is easily made.2e.
Carnivorous animals live in these forests.These beasts are tigers.Thus, tigers live in these forests.We claim here that no two descriptions can be consid-ered co-referential unless they are used to refer to theobjects that are at the comparable stages of aggregation.We call such object relatively singular and place themwithin the same level in our model.
It is clear that theobjects referred to by the corresponding descriptions inthe firs~t wo sentences of (2a) to (2d) are not relativelysingular, and thus the conclusions in the third sentencesare not forthcoming.
Another type of co-reference,which we call a remote co-reference, can still occur, andwe put this view forward in this paper.176 Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts in Natural Language Discourse5 A MULTILEVEL MODEL FOR INTERPRETING NATURALLANGUAGE TERMSInitially, we note that our language tends to deal withsingular objects only, no matter how complex theirstructure happens to be.
A singular object is any entitythat can be taken as a coherent whole, in other words,it can be referred to directly using a referring expressionof language: a name, a definite description, a pronoun.Thus, at least as far as our ability to refer is concerned,all objects appear singular.
Still, it is not the case that allobjects are singular in the same way.
Take, for example,two persons John and Mary.
They are singular objectsand they seem singular in the same way, in other words,singular elative to one another.
Next take alligator, thespecies, and the alligator John owns.
Although both aresingular in their own right, they are not compatiblewhen related to one another: the alligator John ownsappears only a manifestation, or extension, of alligatorthe species at a certain space-time location.
The indi-vidual alligator, which at some period of its life is ownedby John is, therefore, singular in the same way John is,but this will not be the case when we consider the timeslice of this alligator (an alligator stage, in Carlson'swords) while it was owned by John.
This latter appearsonly an instance of the individual alligator at some timeinterval.
By the same token, if John owns many differ-ent alligators at different imes (but, arguably, nevermore than one at a time) then we may risk to refer toJohn's alligator, an abstract object hat generalizes overall alligator stages of all individual alligators ever ownedby John (for example, "John always walks his alligatorin the morning").
The new object, again, seems tobelong in the same class of objects as John and Mary.Let us introduce, only intuitively at first, the relationOf relative singularity among objects.
As suggestedabove, this relation will help us to break down theuniverse of objects into classes of relatively singularobjects, which we call levels.
The levels can be subse-quently partially ordered with lower than relation, i.e.,L 1 < L2, indicating that level L~ consists of manifesta-tions (extensions, instances) of objects at level L 2.
LetL 0 be an arbitrary level we select as our reference point;if our discourse operates at this level then L 0 defines thecurrent level of reference of the discourse.
Let L+ 1 andL_1 be two other levels different than Lo and such thatL- I  < Lo < L+~.
At level L+I we place the objects weconsider to be generalizations (or abstractions) of somemeasurable amount of objects from Lo.
It is only fromthe perspective of L+~ that we are able interpret "Thetiger lives in the jungle," or "The president is electedevery four years," or "Birds can fly," or "Touristsstart forest fires."
The objects at L+~ are singular butonly when related to one another within the same level;when viewed from L o they appear generic or functionalor the like, in other words, non-singular.
When weattempt to find a denotation for a nominal, such as "thetiger" or "tourists," within Lo, we attempt o give iteither a singular or measurably singular interpretation.In a singular interpretation (if possible at all), we have anominal refer to a specific object within the level(John's pet tiger), while in a measurably singular inter-pretation we use a quantification over a finite set ofsingular objects, also within the same level (every tiger,some tourists).
Nominals denoting objects which arenon-singular with respect to Lo, on the other hand, mayhave neither singular nor measurably singular interpre-tations within this level.
In order to find proper deno-tations for them we must change the reference levelfrom Lo to L+I.
Thus, while the statement of "ThePresident lives in the White House" when interpreted atlevel L?~ can be argued to be equivalent to the state-ment "Every president lives in the White House"interpreted atL0, the same cannot be said of "The tigerlives in the jungle" and "Every tiger lives in thejungle."
We must note that some objects found at L+~could have been placed there by design rather than as aresult of generalizing from Lo; an example of suchhigher-level object may be The President.If level L?~ contains generalizations of objects fromLo, then level L_ l will contain their specializations orextensions.
Descending upon L_~ we can see that whatwe previously considered to be the atom actually de-notes many different kinds of atoms (H, O, Ca, Fe,etc.
), or that the mail is not the same every morning, orthat Nicolas Bourbaki is the name of a group ofmathematicians.
4A few definitions will help to put the above intuitionsinto a more formal setting.Def.
1.
A use of a description is called singular if itrefers to a singular object.
A use of a description willbe called measurably singular if it refers to somemeasurable quantity of  a singular object.
Otherwisewe shall talk of non-singular use.Def.
2.
An object level, or simply a level, is anarbitrary collection of relatively singular objects.
Onthe language side, the corresponding reference levelencompasses those singular and measurably singu-lar uses of descriptions that refer to the level'sobjects.Def.
3.
For any level L, there are at least two distinctlevels L_ I and L+t such that L+t contains theseobjects which are non-singular f om the perspectiveof L, and L- I  contains the objects for which theobjects at L are non-singular.Def.
4.
The level L o is an arbitrarily chosen levelserving as a reference point.As described, the structure of levels is not yet adequateto capture the full complexity of the reference structureof discourse.
A notion of coordinate has to be intro-duced along the following lines.
We shall call T acoordinate, if T is a set of points or locations at whichcertain general (or abstract) objects, for example thepresident or the atom, are assigned more specific exten-sions or instances, uch as President Reagan or H, Fe,Ca .
.
.
.
.
A coordinate isusually an ordered set thoughComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989 177LTomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts in Natural Language Discoursethe ordering may be partial only.
Almost any object wecan think of appears an instance of a more generalconcept, and often there will be more such conceptsavailable, if we consider different coordinates.
Water ina glass is an instance of some totality of water in theuniverse (space' coordinate), and also an instance of aconcept of water as in "Water boils at I00 degreesCelsius."
These examples uggest that a coordinate isusually a large set, often an infinite set, though perhapsno more than recursively enumerable.
A non-singularobject can be decomposed into instances in more thanone way, depending which coordinate is used.
Animportant observation is that when a higher-level objectis decomposed with two different coordinates the result-ing sets of instances need not belong to the same level.The concept of the American president in the twentiethcentury is an instance of The President, but is stillnon-singular when compared with President Reagan,also an instance of The President, though with respectto a different coordinate.
A somewhat finer structure oflevels is required.Let L~'I T be the level where we place the instances ofobject N decomposed with coordinate T. By analogy,we define L~'I r to be the level such that for any objectM, M ~ LN+'I r if N ~ L_ml r. In other words, L~'l r containsthe superobject M generalizing over object N with theuse of coordinate T. Suppose that we have an object Nat level L0, to which we refer using a description N. 5Suppose further that coordinate T is selected so that forany x, y E Twe have that N-at-x :/: N-at-y.
Let us use Nxto stand for N-at-x, where x is an element of T, and let(N x) be an expression (as translated into our meaningrepresentation language) that refers to the object Nx,whenever the expression N refers to N, We obtaintherefore thatF1.
Vx,y E T \[x --/: y ~ (N x) ~ (Ny)\]The new objects Nx'S cannot be placed at L 0 because,being instances of N, they are not singular elative to N(see Def.
2).
Instead, we move them onto a new levelLN_'I r leaving the original object N at L o.
We say that theTN,T level rN,r is lower than the level L o, and write -~-1 L.~ \]L 0.
Often we drop the superscripts N and T over thelevel symbol, assuming some lower level L_ 1, wheneverit does not lead to ambiguity.
Example 3 helps toillustrate the phenomenon just discussed.Example 3.
Let us consider a rather naive concept ofbird, as that of a winged creature that lay eggs and canfly.
Let B be extension of this concept in our model andlet Lo be set so that B ~ Lo.
Using a genus coordinate,G, we can construct a level La_'~ containing such objectsas eagle, hawk, and goose.
Let's suppose that, initially,penguin can also be found at level La_'I c. Upon discoverythat penguins cannot fly, however, one would wish torelax the characteristics of the concept B from Lo tocontain both flying and non-flying birds.
Nonetheless,two distinct concepts emerge, that of flying birds andthat of non-flying birds, both of which become subordi-nates of the (now) more general concept B.
These newconcepts are placed at a new level La_'~ x, where K={kl,k2} is a class coordinate such that Bkl is the concept offlying bird, FB, and Ba~ is the concept of non-flying bird,NFB.
The old level LB_'~ remains intact, though it isdifferent from ra,x Moreover, rB,G < rB,X because Jr.,_ I .
L,_ 1 z-,_ 1B,G ~a',cB, (- L_~ , where B' is either FB or NFB, andGB,C_G.
There is another way of interpreting concept Bas well: we introduce a specimen coordinate S thatallows us to pick up specific birds, such as Opus, thepenguin, at level ,-.-1 .rB's Note that this level is lower thanLB'I c_ because it contains all levels "-.-lrx'sx, where X rangesza,o and SxC_S.
Note that the structure over objects at ---1 ,of levels has been created as described because of thefollowing set of conditions.LFB,G~.~ < FB,K < Lo --i L~--ILNFB,GNFB ~ IB ,K  ~ Lo - !
z-~-ILFB,6,.~ U TNFB,~,-B = L B_,~ < Lo --I J'~--I?
rs,s with Speng,in C S Opus E L _pe~lguin,Sp ...... C L,_ 1Figure 1 further illustrates the concept of levels andcoordinates.
6 For an easy interpretation f this drawing,note that gl .
.
.
.
.
g5 E G, GFn O GNvB = G and gl, g2,g3 E GFB and g4, g5 E GNrn, and sl E Spengui n C S.LoL~_.fL'_.
?8xeagleFB,GFj N~,GNr s L_ I UL-1B83hawk gooseL~_,~~ 2g4 ~ F B$1 ~ Npenguin ostrich /OpusFigure 1.
A structure of levels for a simple concept of bird.Now we can attempt to represent meanings of somesimple statements about birds.
For example, Birds canfly is represented at L0 as can-fly(B), while Opus is abird would translate as 3sES \[(B s) = Opus\].
We cannotinfer from these statements hat Opus can fly becausethis would require the formula Vs \[can-fly((B s))\] to bet rue,  which does not have to be the case consideringthat B may now contain instances of non-flying birds.Indeed, Opus cannot fly, which translates to--xan-fly(Opus), is not necessarily inconsistent with theabove two.
7 The only thing we could say about each178 Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989Tomek Strzalkowskiand Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts inNatural Language Discourseinstance of B is, perhaps, that it is a bird and that every/ 'B ,S  bird is an instance of B.
In other words, if x is a ,_,_ lvariable then Vx \[bird(x) -= 3sES\ [x=(B s)\]\] is true.
Thiswould lead to an equivalent L_ l translation of Opus is abird as bird(Opus).
Later, we will see that this equiva-lence is not generally valid.Let us now resume our general discussion on thecharacteristics of the structure of levels.
At level L_ ~,we have an enumerable collection of different objectsNx's.
Extending the description used for N (at Lo) overNx's we refer to them as the N, a N, some N(s), everyN, etc.
It is possible, of course, that some other objectN' found at L 0 is now disclosed to be N~, for some x ET.
What that means is that we have placed N' incor-rectly at Lo, because it actually belonged to L_~.
Con-sider the case of an ancient astronomer who believedthat the Morning Star and the Evening Star were notonly two different heavenly bodies, but also of the samegenre as other stars.
In our conventions, both theMorning Star and the Evening Star were placed at thelevel to which the planet Venus now belongs.
Whencorrecting this ancient misconception, we faced theproblem of an instance of some object and the objectitself were mistakenly assigned the same singularitylevel; that is, we had both Nx and N at Lo.
Nevertheless,this situation represented the state of our knowledge ofthe world at the time.We may now give names to some Nx'S and N mayvery well happen to be among them.
This time, how-ever, N will not denote the old object from L0; this willbe quite a different name referring the selected N~ andcan be replaced by a definite description (N x).
Toillustrate this phenomenon, we may compare the con-cept of a programming language, such as Lisp, with itsvarious implementations or versions available at differ-ent sites or times, and which are locally called Lisps aswell.
A more common transition of a name is, however,from an instantiation to a concept, which, ultimately,can create a similar effect.
Consider for the moment heconcept of a sun as a center (or one of several centers)of a solar system, and our own Sun as a specificinstantiation of this concept.
A schematic illustration ofthe descent process is shown in Figure 2.A process reverse to decomposition is that of ascend-ing to a higher level within the level hierarchy.
Supposethat for some objects N ~, N 2, ?
?
.
,  considered istinct atL 0, we discover they share a certain property, such asbeing an N, so that we need a generalizing concept otalk about them.
We pick up a coordinate T, and climbonto some higher level L~, that is, Lo N,r = t_ ,  < =L 1, and establish a new object N there, a "superobject.
"Now, as viewed from L\], all Ni's are just the occur-rences of N at different values of coordinate T. In otherwords, the following equation holds:F2.
Vi \ [3xE/ \ [ (N  x) = Ni\]\]Note that all Ni's now belong to the level rN,r  1-'-l, which isa part of Lo.
As before, we shall drop superscripts N andL~_7N:  ~Lqv~ oMwa ~iun:  t~ ~t t t  d t mk rtmm)?
o o S t o o~ t t~ ot N m t (oug bn)Figure 2.
Descent from the current level onto a lower level.T for simplicity.
No matter how we name N at L+~, thefollowing Formula of Discovery summarizes our action:F3.
Yx,y E T \[(N x) = (N y)\]It must be noted that (F3) is valid only when stated fromthe perspective of L+~.
At Lo, Ni's remain distincttraditionally, so they remain distinguished in the lan-guage as well; cf.
Formula F1.
The generalization ofother objects from L o onto L+~ may follow but, as in thecase of decomposition discussed earlier, the processwill largely remain implicit.
These observations areillustrated in Example 4.Example 4.
At level L0, we have object TP, named ThePresident.
Let T be the time coordinate (which isdifferent han T in the last two examples).
At Lo, wehave, according to (F3), that Vx,y ~ T \[(TP x) = (TP y)\].Later, we may discover that for some tl, tz E T,(TP t0=N and (TP t2)=R, and that at some level rTP,r ~L-J__ lwhere N and R belong, they are considered istinct andnamed Nixon and Reagan, respectively.
But at Lo,R=N is true.
The last observation can be made clearerif one imagines that TP is some abstract individual who,when observed in the early 1970s, is named Nixon, andwho, when observed in the 1980s, is named Reagan.As described, the case of generalization (or abstrac-tion) is extremely common in natural anguage, and thebest tangible manifestation of this phenomenon is com-mon nouns.
Common nouns should be considerednames of generalized concepts, which may be either ofa physical or otherwise measurable nature (mass con-cepts such as water, snow, gold, temperature .
.
.
.  )
orof a non-physical, abstract nature (usually based onenumerable quantities of specific instances: tree, man,president .
.
.
.
), or both (like fish, people .
.
.
.
).Once the superobject N has been created, it begins tolive a life of its own.
Some new objects from Lo,different han Ni's, may now become instances of N atsome, as yet, unutilized values of coordinate T. Also,we may use descriptions (N x) without caring whetherthey actually refer to any objects at Lo.
In other words,the fact that a superobject N has no instance at certainlocation x ET  at level L~'~ T does not preclude the use ofComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989 179Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts in Natural Language Discoursethe description (N x) in the language.
The resultingexpression may not always be well defined, though, asis in the case o f " the  present king of France,"  where theadjective "present"  specifies the value of time coordi-nate decomposing the superobject the king of France.This problem of non-denoting expressions created outof denoting eneral terms, which is widely discussed byQuine (1960, 1973), receives an elegant explanation inour theory.
One remaining problem is the relationshipbetween a superobject and its instances in some givendecomposition.
It is important hat we do not equate asuperobject at L+I with the set S of its instances at Lo,even if they may have actually given birth to thissuperobject.
A superobject cannot be understood as aset of appropriate lower-level instances, since we wouldobtain only a measurable collection of singular objects.Instead, a superobject N can be identified with a familyof functions {qb~ IT is a coordinate} such that each ~ isa function from coordinate T into an appropriate lowerlevel, L~'I ~r.
In particular, a superobject N at LP+'~, whereP E L 0, can be considered (from Lo perspective) as afunction ~ from T into L0 such that, whenevers ESC_Lo, then there is t E T such that ~ (t) = N t = S.The function qb~.
is then arbitrarily extended beyond theset S. The following definition may be suggested.Def.
5.
Let L and M be any two distinct levels ofrelatively singular objects.
We say that level L islower than level M, L < M, if there exists an objectP at level M and a coordinate T such that L D ~'te'r ~vJ t_  l .In order to avoid any misunderstanding, we add thefollowing remark.
It is possible that some Nj fromamong the Ni's was already recognized properly at Lo asour goal object N from L?l, although its other occur-rences Ni for i :k j were not identified with it (cf.
theMorning Star, the Evening Star, and Venus).
In somesense, therefore, the previous concept of N was incom-plete, since it did not contain these other instanceswhich, in turn, allowed this former concept o coexistwith some of its would-be instances at the same level.This fact can be further einforced in our language whenwe choose to name N after N j.
This should not suggestthat N and N j are one and the same object.
The formeris in a sense more mature, although, when referenced byname, one can hardly tell which one of the two conceptsis being referred to, unless, of course, some additionalclarifying context is present.
Examples 5 and 6 belowfurther illustrate this point.Example 5 We have the following distinct objects atlevel Lo: V, called Venus; MS, called the Morning Star;and ES, called the Evening Star.
Upon discovery thatthey all represent occurrences of the same planet, wecreate a new object V', named Venus, at the level LI =LV'l T, and such that for some x,y,z E T, where Tis a timecoordinate, (V'x) = V, (V'y)  = MS, (V'z)  = ES, whereV', V, MS and ES are individual constants denoting V',V, MS and ES, respectively.
Using the formula (F3), weconclude, from the perspective of L~, that V = MS =ES, while the same conclusion made at L o is false.Example 6.
Let the level L o be as in Example 5, exceptthat the object V is discovered not to be uniform.
Infact, it contains occurrences of three different objects:planet Venus and some two heavenly bodies assumed tobe Venus :in the mornings and the evenings.
Now wecannot use our time coordinate T from the previousexample to get the desired result of the object V' at L+ 1.Instead, we first descend to LV'l s over a coordinate S todifferentiate he objects Vs,, Vs 2, V~ 3 for some st, $2, $3 ES.
Let the V~, be a part of the ultimate object V'.
In thesame way, we create instances of MS and ES over thecoordinate S at levels tMS,S and fES,S respectively.
z.~_ 1 z.-_ I ,Because V, MS and ES are relatively singular, theirinstances in decomposition with respect to the samecoordinate yield objects that are also relatively singular.
?V ,S  In other words, there is a level L 2 such that L 2 ~ ,-,-i t..JLMS,S tES,S Let MS~ be called the Morning Star and --1 \ [ J  1"--1 "ES~3 be called the Evening Star at L2.
Now we canconstruct he ultimate object V' out of Vsl, MS~2, andES~3 using a coordinate T such that {s~,sE,s3} C_ T andV" I = V~t, V" 2 = MS~2, and V's3 = ES~.
We place V' ata new level L 3 L v d I"T. Note that L 3 C_L o, and thus thatV' is singular at L0.Example 6 is more "real ist ic" than Example 5, butboth examples have equal linguistic significance.
Note,however, that having L 2 as L 0, and L 3 as L t, we couldreconstruct Example 5.6 REMOTE REFERENCES,  SUPERCONTEXTS~ ANDSUBCONTEXTSLet us examine how the foregoing theory of non-singular terms could be utilized in assigning meaningrepresentation to natural anguage discourse.
In partic-ular, we, are interested in the problem of computingextrasentential dependencies in text.The translation rules described briefly in Section 2are applicable only when anaphoric references arisebetween relatively singular descriptions or, as we wouldsay now, between descriptions denoting objects classi-fied within the same single level.
We show that a similartechnique can be used to compute another type ofextrasentential dependencies, which we call the remoteco-reference.
Let us start with an example.
The arrowsymbol-~ is used here, and elsewhere, to mean "trans-lates to" .ExamplE; 7.
Consider the following discourse fragment.7a.
The president 1 is elected every four years.7b.
The president 2 is Reagan.There i,; nothing to prevent us from interpreting thepresident I and the president 2 at levels L t and L2,respectively, so that one of the following takes place.Either Lq = L 2, or L 1 < L 2, or L 2 < L 1, or simply L1L2, where < stands for the extended lower-level relationintroduced in definition 5.
The latter case does notinterest us, since, in such an interpretation, both sen-tences were uttered at different occasions with noconnection between them.180 Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts in Natural Language DiscourseConsider first that L~ = L 2 = L0.
If the two definitedescriptions were to co-refer then we would be talkingof the same object (individual) in both sentences.
Thatinterpretation, although possible, does not agree withour intuition.
In this case the conclusion of7c.
Reagan is elected every four years.follows immediately.Let us assume next that L 2 TP, T DL_  1 < L 1 = L o, whereTP is the object at LI referred to by the presidenh, andT is a time-based coordinate.
If the presiden h is used asa name, we can expect to obtain the following transla-tions:7a ---> eefy(TP)7b ---> 3t \[SL(t) & ((TP t)=R)\]with "elected every four years" ---> eefy, "the pres-ident" ~ AP\[P(TP)\]where t E T and SL is a selector over T provided by thediscourse situation (for example now, here, etc.).
Thisselector could be obtained if we consider a possibletranslation of (7b) at L2 as pres(R) & loc(R, now), fromwhich it follows that 3tET\[((TP t)=R & loc((TP t),now)\], with SL = At\[loc((TP t), now)\].In a more general case, we would take the phrase thepresidenh as an ordinary definite description.
Assumingsome external context C which allows for the use of thedefinite article, the following translation can be derived: 87a---> 3r \[p(r) & C(r) & Vy \[(p(y) & C(y))D (r=y)\] & eefy (r)\]7b ---> 3x \[p(x) & C(x) & Vy \[(p(y) & C(y))D (x=y)\] & :lt\[SL(t) & p((x t)) &((x t)=R)\]\]where "president" ---> p.The first of these formulas can be interpreted, withrespect to some implicit context C (which may bereasonably assumed to limit our attention to the U.S.government), as: there is exactly one object such that itis a president and has a property of being elected everyfour years.
Clearly, the object we refer to in (7a) is notany particular person, but the office of the President ofthe U.S.
The other formula says, in turn, that there is avalue t of the time coordinate T at which the instance ofthe general object referred to in (7a) (the President ofthe U.S.) is identical with the object R (which stands forReagan).
Observe that R refers to the individual Reaganas he appears at t, but not necessarily beyond that.
Thelatter formula gives the full translation of (7b) when theremote reference to level L~ has been resolved.
Beforethis interlevel connection is established, however, wecan assign (7b) only the a literal translation at L2, asshown below, where C2 is a local context at level L2.7b ----> :Ix \[p(x) & C2(X ) t~ Vy \[(p(y) & Cz(Y)) D(x=y)\] & (x=R)\]A point that is worth discussion is the role of theselector SL in the full translation of (7b).
This selectormay be interpreted as a local context at L z determinedby a discourse situation, as in Barwise and Perry (1983).To understand its influence on the form of the refer-ence-making sentence, compare Example 7 with Exam-ple 8 below.Example 88a.
The tiger lives in the jungle.8b.
My pet is a tiger.Unlike (8b), in the "s tory"  of the president he localcontext allows (and requires) us to use " the"  in (7b)because there may be at most one instance of thegeneral term at a given discourse situation (in this case,the President of the U.S.).
This is not the case whenmore than one value of the coordinate T satisfied theselector condition.
The use of a definite description insuch a context suggests, therefore, that a single instanceof a general term is being picked up by the selector.
Thismeans, in turn, that except for a main "remote refer-ence" in cross-level referencing, another local refer-ence is being made at these levels where the definitedescription is used to denote some object.
The remotereference itself does not need a definite description tobe used for establishing a connection between an in-stance and the general term.
The fact that we use adefinite article when referring to an instance of a generalconcept, as in (7b), implies only that the local contextSL contains (or is expected to contain) exactly oneinstance of the general object.
Notice that the temporalaspect of this local context is extremely influential.
9When we decompose a general object with respect o atime coordinate, we are more likely to obtain a uniqueinstantiation i  a local context.
However,  when a coor-dinate does not contain a time element, as in (8a,b), wecannot, in general, exclude the possibility that instancesother than the one we intend to refer to in subsequentstatements may be present in a local context.
Thus adefinite description is not used until the local context isproperly narrowed.
In the case of (8a,b) above, forexample, we may continue the discourse at the lowerlevel, saying "The animal is quite fr iendly," and mean-ing "The animal which is my pet tiger is quite fr iendly.
"This discussion strongly supports our theory ofnames and descriptions, particularly the existence oflevels and coordinates.
Having established a higher-level object (or superobject), we can freely discuss itsinstances across various coordinates.
The local refer-ences can be accounted for by singular translation rules,which we discuss in Strzalkowski and Cercone (1986).Finally, let us define the notion of remote referencefor objects classified into different naming levels.Def.
6.
An object N at a level L n is said to be remotelyreferenced by a description M if M refers to anobject M at some level L m such that either L m D_L~ 'r, or L m D_L~f, for some coordinate T.Let us summarize this discussion briefly now.
In somepart of a discourse, a certain (general) object X isaddressed; that is, there is some part, $1, of the dis-course (presented as a single sentence in our examples,Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989 181Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts in Natural Language Discoursefor simplicity), such that S 1 predicates omething ofX--that is SI(X), where X is a description that refers toX.
In a subsequent part of the discourse, however, thediscourse changes the level of reference and only someinstance(s) of X with respect o some coordinate T isaddressed; that is, there is some t E T such that S2((Xt)), where S 2 is this new part of the discourse.
Appar-ently, the discourse internal cohesion would be compro-mised if we did not allow the higher level object X be atarget of a remote reference by a description (X t)denoting one of its instances.
In such a case we say thatSI(X) creates a supercontext for (X t).
We can furthersay that X and (X t) are remotely co-referential.
Byanalogy, if S!
contains a reference to an instance of anobject X, that is, we have SI((X t)) for some coordinateTwhere t E T, and $2 contains a reference to X, that is,S2(X), then SI((X t)) is a subeontext for X.
In this casetoo, X and (X t) are remotely co-referential.We have just arrived at a very important property ofa natural language discourse, which influences bothcoherence and cohesion, and is absolutely essential inproper representation of discourse meaning content.The following translation rule specifies how such arepresentation should be derived.I?
The approach pre-sented here is entirely original, although the problem ofthe "general term/an instance" connection has beenknown for a long time and other, less general, solutionshave been suggested (see Partee 1972 and Montague1974).Rule 11 (Supercontext Translation Rule):I f  the context-setting sentence St with the translationL+1, where 3x \[Pl(x) & Fl(x)\] is interpreted at level g.ris an object satisfying sentence S2 when interpretedat level L o, and $2 contains an unresolved remotereference P2, that is,$2 = 3y \[P2(Y) & F2(y)\],then the full translation of S 2 is obtained asAQ\[AC\[MQ,c\](C1)\](Au\[3t\[AY\[P2(y) & F Y)\]((u t))\]\]),where the supercontext C1 is hx\[Pi(x) & Fl(x)\], andMQ, c abbreviates the following expressionMQ,C = 3x\[C(x) & Vy \[C(y) D (x=y)\] & Q(x)\].Thus far we have considered two types of cross-levelreferences: the trivial one where L~ = L2 = Lo, and theremote reference in supercontext, that is, with L~ < L2= L o.
Let us now turn to the remaining type, for whichL 0 = L 1 < L2.
We call such situations remote referencesin subeontext.Example 9.
Let TP and T be as in Example 7.
This timesuppose that we have the following situation: L 0 = L I <L 2 ~_Lt+p| r, where tp is TPt for some t E T. Our discoursemay now look as follows.9a.
A president1 sits in the first row.9b.
The president 2 is elected every four years.182Sentence; 9b has the following translation with a remotereference to "the president" in (9a).9b -* 3x \[p(x) & 3t \[SL(t) & p((x t)) & sfr((x t))\]& Vy \[(p(y) & 3t \[SL(t) & sfr((y t))\]) D(x=y)\] & eefy(x)\]where "sits in the first row" ---> sfr.The formula translating (9b) says that the president, aunique superobject denoted by x, is elected every fouryears.
The uniqueness of the president superobject isdetermined by the fact that one of its instances withrespect to some space-time coordinate, identified in theformula by the term (x t) where t is an element of thiscoordinate, has the property of sitting in the first row.One may wonder whether the use of the definitedescription in (9b) is always necessary to maintain theremote reference, since we rejected such a necessity insupercontexts.
It should be clear enough, consideringthe level structure introduced earlier, that we can andhave to use definite descriptions in subcontextual ref-erences.
We illustrate this point with another example.The problem is discussed at a great length in Strzal-kowski (1986).Example 10.
In the following discourse, the descriptionsa presidentl and a president 3 refer to objects which arenot relatively singular and therefore do not belong to thesame level.
Although the discourse seems connectedand coherent, there is no straightforward correspon-dence between the two sentences.10a.
,lohn wants to become a king rather than apresidenti.10b.
That is because a president3 is elected everyseveral years, while the king rules for a lifetime.Here a presidentl refers to an L0-instance PI of anrv,,r A president 3 L+ l-level object Pz specifically Pz E ~+1 ?refers to some object P3, which is still non-singular fromthe perspective of level Lo.
P3 is an instance of Pz butwith respect to a coordinate T' different than T. In otherwords, P3 is placed on the level L~:i r, which is not a partof L0.
There is no direct correspondence b tween apresident~ and a president3 beyond the fact that P2 Ef P3,r' It may well happen, however, that for LP'\[ r n ~+1 ?some coordinate U and some u ~ U, we shall have (P3u) denoting Pv This is why John would rather be a king.
.
.
.
What relates these two "presidents" is a compo-sition of two remote references: the one made by apresident I to the object P2 (we may wish to call thisobject the president2), and the other made by apresident 3 o P2.
This same effect will be produced if weuse other measurably singular descriptions like "everypresident," "some presidents," or "most presidents"in (10b).
If we had the defini~te "the president" insteadof indefinite "a president" in (10b), however, we wouldobtain a clear instance of a remote reference in subcon-text, that is, with P2 = P3.
The objects and theirrespective l vels in the presidents case are illustrated inFigure 3.Computatiomd Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts in Natural Language DiscourseP|.T PS,T' ?+\] IIL+\]P2,T'L_ !/'o * ?
P I  *P2al~nlaml ~a pm~d~t (~ mla tD Imme )Figure 3.
The structure of levels in the president example(Example 10).The case of the remote reference in subcontext issummarized with the translation Rule 12.Rule 12 (Subcontext Translation Rule):I f  the context-setting sentence St with the translation~,T 3x \[Pn(x) & Fl(x)\] is interpreted at some level L_ 1,where ~ is an object satisfying the current sentenceS 2 when interpreted at L o, and S 2 contains an unre-solved remote reference P2, that is,S 2 = =Ix \[P2(x) & C(x) & Vy \[(P2(Y) & C(y))D (x=y)\] & F2(x)\]then the full translation of  $2 is obtained asS2(P 2) --~ AC\[LE\](Au\[::II \[CI((U t))\]\])where the subcontext Cn = Ax \[Pn(x) & Fn(x)\] isderived from $1.7 SUPEROBJECTS VS .
PLURAL  TERMSWe now examine the nature of superobjects, that is, theobjects placed at level L?
1.
In particular, we are inter-ested in what sets them apart from their instances.
Letus again consider the term "The President" as referringto the superobject TP at some level L+~ (of.
Example 7).We may say that such superterm has the property ofcollective referring to all of its instances at once, butwithout necessarily making a reference to any of theseinstances in particular.
At level L0, if we want to refer toa set of objects, we use one of the enumerating quanti-tiers "every" or "each," or we use some sort of plural,such as in "These presidents were married" (each).
Wenote, however, that most plurals, especially the so-called "bare" plurals, like presidents, tigers, or meet-ings can actually refer collectively, which makes themakin of superterms, though many of these plurals can beambiguous between the collective and a non-collectiveinterpretations.
Just like in the case of singular super-objects, the objects denoted by plural terms, such aspresidents, tigers, Americans, etc., cannot be alwaysidentified with the corresponding sets of lower-levelinstances.
It turns out that the plural terms actuallydenote superobjects, 11 and therefore they should beinterpreted at the same level as respective singularsuperterms.
We will see that the generalization leadsnaturally to plural terms that may or may not induceequivalent singular superterms.
Conversely, a pluralequivalent to a singular term may suggest he mostnatural coordinate to decompose the superobject in itsdenotation i to lower-level instances.
When a singularterm lacks a plural equivalent, however, we may admitthat the object in its denotation is not naturally decom-posable and that we are now looking at the bottom-mostlevel in some decomposition hierarchy.
A further de-composition may be still possible, but it can onlyproduce objects that will never assume an independentstatus and will remain recognized only as instances ofsome more general superobject scattered over that oranother coordinate.
This phenomenon is characteristicof so-called mass objects and their corresponding massterms.
As an example, consider such nouns as water,gold, or heat.
They lack plural equivalents, and there isno obvious way to decompose them into lower-levelinstances, except with 4-dimensional space-time coor-dinate.
Note that although we can occasionally use amorphologically plural term, like waters, these usuallywill not be equivalent to singular superterms, and theywill often denote other mass objects as well, such as in"waters of the Nile."
Space-time coordinates can alsobe used to obtain instances of otherwise non-decompos-able entities, such as John, into space-time slices, called"stages" (Carlson 1982).
Quite naturally, the questionof where one level ends and another begins arises.
Thefollowing two examples provide some insight into thelevel-boundary problem.Example 11.
Consider the following sentences.1 la.
Mary brings (some) water every day.1 lb.
John picks up the mail every morning.Let "water" in (1 la) be the name of some superobjectW at level L+I.
Presumably, Mary brings only a part ofW, but we can say that W is being brought by Maryevery day.
This is the same W every day, although eachtime possibly a different part of it is in transit, whichleads to the obvious translation (at L+t),i.
1 la ---> brings-every-day(M,W)where M and W are individual constants denoting L?Iobjects M (Mary) and W (water).
Alternatively, if weevaluate (lla) at level L o = ,-,-lrw'r with a space-timecoordinate T, in which case (lla) should read "Marybrings some water every day," we obtain the followinginterpretation:ii.
1 la---> Vx \[day(x) D 3t \[brings(x, M, (W t))\]\]where W is as before, M is an individual constantdenoting a space-time stage of Mary,12 and brings(x,y,z)should be read at x y brings z.
Now (W t) denotes omeinstance of the superobject W at level L 0' of which weComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989m _183Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts in Natural Language Discoursecan say that it is water as well; that is, water((W t)).
AtL 0' we replace (W t) by a singular variable u, obtainingii'.
1 la---~ Vx \[d(x) D 3u \[water(u) & brings(x, M, u)\]\]The translations featured in (i), (ii), and (ii') may appearto be equivalent statements made from different per-spectives and at different levels of detail.
This is not thecase, though.
In particular, (ii) and (ii') are not equiva-lent.
This point is further illustrated with (1 lb).
Let m bethe mail that John is picking up at any one particularoccasion.
There is a space-time coordinate T such thatthe level L~I r contains a unique superobject for whichthe following holds.iii.
1 lb ~ 3x \[mail(x) & C(x) & Vy \[(mail(y) & C(y))(x = y)\] & picks-ev-morn(J, x)\]The context C is used to determine the uniqueness ofJohn's mail superobject.
Note that the quantificationm,T ranges over objects at L+~ .
Because John's mail super-object is decomposable with T we obtain the followingequivalent cross-level interpretation.iv.
1 lb ~ 3x \[mail(x) & C(x) & Vy \[(mail(y) & C(y))3 (x = y)\] & Vu \[morn(u) D 3t \[picks(u, J (x t))\]\]\]Here, t ranges over elements of coordinate T, and (x t)refers to an L 0 instance of John's mail superobject.
Thethree arguments of picks(x,y,z) are understood as at x ypicks up z.
As it stands, (iv) still needs to be interpretedm,T at L+~ .
To reduce this translation to the form thatwould be interpretable at Lo, we have to replace thedefinite reference in the first line of (iv), that is,3x \[mail(x) & C(x) & Vy\[(mail(y) & C(y))D (x = y)\]\]with a predicate, interpretable at L o, that woulduniquely indicate John's mail.
Then replacing (x t) by avariable z, we obtain the following formula.iv'.
Vu \[morn(u) D 3z \[John's-mail(z) &picks(u, J, z)\]\]Note that equivalence to (iv) requires the John's-mailpredicate to be true of an empty z, which can happen if,at some occasion, John receives no mail at all.
Other-wise (iv) and (iv') are not equivalent.
In (iv) we canmaintain truth of picks (u,J,(x t)) because we do notrequire (x t) to denote anything at Lo; we merely saythat a t exists.
This example actually shows the powerof the multilevel representation.
Observe that we havejust delivered a very strong argument supporting theclaim that superobjects are not merely sets of theirinstances.
It must be noted here again (cf.
footnote 7)that some limit needs to be set up for the amount ofexceptions to a general statement like (iv) that we arewilling to tolerate.There remains one more reading of ( l ib) that doesnot seem to require any reference to higher-level ob-jects.
This reading could be paraphrased as: Everymorning there exists the mail such that John picks it up,or more formallyv.
I lb ~ Vx\[morn(x) D 3u \[mail(u) & C(u) &Vy\[(mail(y) & C(y)) D (u = y)\] & picks(x,J,u)\]This time the variable u is bound at Lo.
Is this transla-tion feasible?
We can answer both "yes"  and "no . "
A"yes"  answer indicates that the transformation gives usa singu\]lar interpretation of (11b) at L o.
Note that be-cause of the uniqueness clause in it, (v) says no morethan that John keeps picking up the same thing everymorning, since the context C does not depend on x andis the same each time.
A "no"  answer indicates that thelatter interpretation most probably does not express ourintention.
The translation of (v), although possible, isnot equivalent to either (iii), (iv), or (iv').At the beginning of this section we stated that bareplurals, like presidents or meetings, behave much likesingular superobjects.
Let us look somewhat closer atthis issue now.
Consider the pairs of sentences (12a,b)and (12c,d) below.Example 12.12a.
The faculty meeting is held every month.12b.
Faculty meetings are held every month.12c.
The rat can live in most countries.12d.
Rats can live in most countries.It seems to us that the preferred interpretation ofsentences in (12b) and (12d) is such that the plural nounphrase ,(faculty meetings, rats) is understood as denot-ing a higher-level concept.
For the same reason as (12a),and (l ib) before it, (12b) will remain a truthful L?Istatement in spite of the fact that, at some occasions,meetings can be canceled (due to holidays, for exam-ple).
In the case of (12c) and (12d) the point is somewhatfiner.
"\['his time we may be less reluctant o say that(12d) means, in fact, that every rat can live in mostcountries, because we talk about possibilities.
There isa catch in here, however; though every rat can live atmany different places, not every one, or perhaps evennone, car~ live at most of these places.One of this section's key observations i that pluralterms are, in many respects, equivalent o singularsuperterms.
We can assume, for now, that plural terms,cautiously named prototypes of superterms, actuallydenote superobjects as well.
For some plural terms, wecan find equivalent singular versions like tigersmtiger,presidentsmpresident, etc.
Others do not have thisproperty.
Alternatively, mass terms will usually lackplural equivalents, for example, "water"  cannot beidentified with "waters"  in general.
Still others mayexpose a surprising mixture of the properties, like"people," which is a plural term with morphologicallysingular form and which may also be used as masssuperterm.8 CONCLUSIONWe presented an approach to representing various kindsof non-singular concepts in natural language dis-course.
13 The major observation of our theory is that184 Computationan Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cerconereality, as perceived by an intelligent individual, can beregarded as a partially ordered structure of levels suchthat each level contains only those objects that areconsidered relatively singular.
Observe that there arevirtually no restrictions imposed upon the notion ofrelative singularity, so that the distribution of objectsbetween levels of the world model may differ amongdifferent individuals.
Non-singular objects, called su-perobjects, are placed at a number of higher levels,which are related to the current level with variouscoordinates.
Conversely, a singular object may be de-composed along a coordinate, and new objects, soobtained, will be placed at some lower level.
This samecoordinate can be used then to obtain instances of otherobjects at this lower level, so that the relative singular-ity of objects within each level is maintained.
Thistheory also contributes to a better understanding ofdiscourse internal cohesion by introducing the notion ofremote reference in text.We believe that our approach promotes computa-tional tractability of some more difficult properties ofnatural anguage discourse.
Among these, the notion ofintension as formalized by Montague (1974a-d) has longbeen considered ifficult for a practical realization, anda more tractable alternative has been sought ever since.Our theory of names and descriptions takes us a step inthis direction, although an implementation or a formalcomplexity evaluation have yet to be attempted.
Ob-serve that with the concept of superobject and coordi-nate, we no longer have to identify general terms like"temperature," "president," or "water"  with inten-sions, that is, functions over possible worlds.
Superob-jects are not some mysterious, extra-world entities, butthey acquire a concrete status which makes them ascomprehensible as ordinary objects.
In a simplifiedaccount, our notion of coordinate can be loosely relatedto the possible world theory's concept of index.
Thecoordinate is, however, far more selective than theindex.
In a particular discourse situation, we can pickup that aspect of intensionality of some concept hat is,at present, relevant to our understanding of the dis-course.
Our freedom in selecting that or another coor-dinate is all important.
Note also that structures ofcoordinates may vary considerably.
For example, apure time coordinate may consist of time points as wellas consists of time periods, and time periods are ofmuch greater significance in practice (examine "thepresident" example).
Coordinates connote more thanindices.
They can be used to define a non-singular statusof an object which is otherwise purely extensional (theexamples of "water"  from the last section).
In thissense, the concept of non-singularity has a local, andoften subjective, character.Non-Singular Concepts in Natural Language DiscourseACKNOWLEDGMENTSThe authors would like to thank Jim Delgrande and the anonymousreferees whose many comments have helped to make this paper intoa more readable and comprehensive article.
The research reportedhere was supported in part by the Natural Science and EngineeringResearch Council of Canada under Operating Grant number A4309and Operating Grant number A9219, by the Office of the AcademicVice-President, Simon Fraser University, and by SFU's Open Grad-uate Scholarship.
We also thank the LCCR for use of facilities.REFERENCESBarwise, J. and Perry, J.
1983 Situations and Attitudes.
The MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Barwise, J. and Perry, J.
1885 "Shifting situations and shakenattitudes."
Linguistics and Philosophy 8;(1): 105-161.Bronnenberg, W.; Bunt, H.; Landsbergen, J.; Scha, R.; Schoenmak-ers, W.; van Utteren, E. 1980 "The Question Answering SystemPHLIQAI."
In L. Bolc (ed.)
Natural Language Question Answer-ing Systems.
Macmillan.Carlson, G. 1977 "A unified analysis of English bare plural."
Linguis-tics and Philosophy 1: 416-456.Carlson, G. 1982 Generic Terms and Generic Sentences.
Journal ofPhilosophical Logic 11: 145-181.Donnellan, K. 1971 Reference and Definite Descriptions.
In D. D.Steinberg, L. A. Jakobovits (eds.)
Semantics.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, Cambridge, England; 100-114.Kripke, S. 1972 Naming and Necessity.
In D. Davison, G.
Harman(eds.)
Semantics of Natural Language.
Reidel, Dordrecht; 253-355.Landsbergen, J. and Scha, R. 1979 "Formal anguages for semanticrepresentation."
I  Allen and Petofi (eds.
)Aspects of AutomatizedText Processing: papers in text linguistics.
Buske, Hamburg.Lewis, D. 1976 General Semantics.
In B. H. Partee (ed.)
MontagueGrammar.
Academic Press; 1-50.Montague, R. 1974a On the Nature of Certain Philosophical Entities.In Thomason 1974 Selected Papers of Richard Montague.
YaleUniversity Press, New Haven, CT.Montague, R. 1974b English as a Formal Language.
In Thomason1974 Selected Papers of Richard Montague.
Yale UniversityPress, New Haven, CT.Montague, R. 1974c Universal Grammar.
InThomason 1974 SelectedPapers of Richard Montague.
Yale University Press, New Haven,CT.Montague, R. 1974d The Proper Treatment of Quantification iOrdinary English.
In Thomason 1974 Selected Papers of RichardMontague.
Yale University Press, New Haven, CT.Partee, B. H. 1972 Opacity, Coreference, and Pronouns.
In D.Davison, G. Harman (eds.)
Semantics of Natural Language.Reidel, Dordrecht; 415--441.Quine, W. V. 1960 Word and Object.
The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Quine, W. V. 1973 The Roots of Reference.
Open Court.
La Salle, IL.Strzalkowski, T. 1986.
A Theory of Stratified Meaning Representa-tion.
Doctoral dissertation, School of Computing Science, SimonFraser University, Burnaby, B.C., Canada.Strzalkowski, T. 1986a An Approach to Non-Singular Terms inDiscourse.
In Proceedings of the l l th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING-86).
Bonn, West Germany.Strzalkowski, T. 1989 "A meaning representation f rgeneric sen-tences."
(unpublished manuscript).Strzalkowski, T. and Cercone, N. 1985 A Framework for ComputingExtra-Sentential References.
In Proceedings of the TheoreticalApproaches to Natural Language Understanding.
Halifax, NovaScotia; 107-116.Strzalkowski, T. and Cercone, N. 1986 A Framework for ComputingExtra-Sentential References.
Computational Intelligence 2(4):159--180.Thomason, R.
(ed.)
1974 Selected Papers of Richard Montague.
YaleUniversity Press, New Haven, CT.Vendler, Z.
1971 Singular Terms.
In D. D. Steinberg, L. A. Jakobo-vits (eds.)
Semantics.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,England; 115-133.Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989 185Tomek Strzalkowski and Nick Cercone Non-Singular Concepts in Natural Language DiscourseNOTESI.
For Moutague's ystem to work it is necessary that a possibleworld is understood as a completely specified alternative reality,and cannot be thought of as merely a different model, or a partialsituation (Montague 1974a, Barwise and Perry 1985).
Althoughvarious "Montaguc-style" or "Montague-inspired" approachesto natural language processing have been proposed in computa-tional inguistics (see, for example, Landsbergcn and Scha 1979,Bronncnberg et al 1980) none of them ever attempted to tacklea full-scale semantics for IL.2.
"Profiles: A gentle reign," by Susan Orlean.
The New Yorker,Dec.
12, 1988, p. 50.3. is in "is rising" and in "is ninety" are of course different uses ofthe verb to be.
This is the identity is in the second sentence thatwe are concerned with here.4.
This example was suggested by one of the reviewers.5.
We use boldface to denote objects, and romanface to indicatetheir names and other descriptions referring to them.6.
There is no connection between this and other drawings pre-sented in this paper, and any semantic network formalism.7.
This is not to say that we can have just any amount of negativeevidence in the form of literals '-lfly((B t)) and still keep onbelieving that fly(B).
An empirical verification or refutation ofthe latter will depend upon the number of instances seen and thequantitative r lationship between the positive and the negativeevidence (Strzalkowski 1989).
Nonetheless, we have to beprepared to accommodate exceptions, up to a point.
The discus-sion of these issues is beyond the scope of the present article.8.
A detailed iscussion on how to produce such translations can befound in Strzalkowski and Cercone (1986) and Strzalkowski(1986).9.
This is, quite clearly, due to the temporal aspect of the majorityof sentences produced in natural language discourse (use of verbtenses and temporal adverbs).10.
Before a translation rule like one of these presented in this papercan be used, a sentence must undergo numerous transformationswithin the Stratified Model (Strzalkowski 1986).
These transfor-mations include, but are not limited to, morphological nalysis,lexical disambiguation, and syntactic parsing.11.
Quine (1960) seems to suggest this conclusion; refer, for exampleto his double interpretation f mass terms (pp.
120-121).12.
To be precise, we should represent Mary-stage as (M t), that is,as a term referring to an instance of the object M. However, ournaming convention discussed earlier allows for replacing thedefinite description (M t) by the name of the Lo object in itsdenotation.
We utilize this option here.13.
This approach to representing non-singular concepts contributesto the transformation F _ 1 of the Stratified Model; see Strzal-kowski (1986).
In particular, rules 11 and 12 add greatly to theexplanation of text cohesion, about which transformation.
Fn-~is concerned, although they introduce some ambiguity into thetransformation.186 Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 3, September 1989
