TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCECROSS-VOWEL PHONOTACTIC CONSTRAINTSFudge (1969), Clements and Keyser (1983), and Davis(1984) have all pointed out a number of systematicphonotactic onstraints holding between a prevocalicand a postvocalic onsonant in English monosyllabicwords.
One of the strongest of these constraints, andone that has been observed by all three of the abovementioned researchers, is that there are no monosyl-labic words of the form sCVC in which the samenon-coronal (labial or velar) consonant flanks both sidesof the vowel.
Hence there are no English words like"spep" or "skik".
Another constraint, noted by Davis(1984), is that there are no monosyllabic words of theform sNVN (where N can be any nasal consonant).Thus there are no words in English like "snam" or"sming".
Here, I point out that these two constraintsare in fact more general.
Both these constraints aremore general in that they are not just constraints onmonosyllabic words or on single syllables, rather theyare constraints on any sequence of sCVC (or sNVN)regardless where in the word (or, rather, morpheme)that sCVC sequence (or sNVN gequence) occurs.
Also,the constraint on sCVC sequences i not just a con-straint on identical consonants flanking both sides of thevowel, but on homorganic consonants (i.e., consonantshaving the same place of articulation) flanking bothsides of the vowel.Are the systematic constraints on sCVC sequences(in which the Cs are identical noncoronal consonants)and sNVN sequences (in which the N is any nasalconsonant) which hold for English monosyllabic wordsactually general constraints on English syllables as isassumed by Davis (1984) (and also by Clements andKeyser 1983)?
If, in fact, these are constraints onEnglish syllables, one would expect to find wordscontaining the sequence sCVCV (or sNVNV) since thepostvocalic C (or N) would not be part of the initialsyllable.
So, for example, one might expect hat therewould be words like "skicky" or "spapoon" in whichthe postvocalic onsonant is not part of the initialsyllable, but there would not be words like "skick" or"spap" in which the postvocalic onsonant is part ofthe initial syllable.
If, on the other hand, the constrainton sCVC sequences (and sNVN sequences) is actuallya constraint on a sequence of sounds, regardless ofwhether the sounds are all in the same syllable, thenpossible words or sequences like "skicky" or "spa-poon" would be non-occurring or at least extremelyrare.
A search was done on a computerized lexiconcontaining nearly 20,000 words from Webster's PocketDictionary to see if the sequences CVC and sNVN.occur in any polysyllabic words.
The only word in thislexicon in which the sequence sCVC is found (where theCs are identical non-coronal consonants) is the word"dyspepsia" where the sequence "spep" occurs.
Noother such words were found.
Polysyllabic words hav-ing the sequence sCVC where the two Cs are notidentical are much more common.
A search through the20,000-word lexicon gives us such words as "spa-ghetti", "scaffold", "scuba", "eskimo", and "epis-copal".
Thus it appears that the constraint on sCVCsequences i  not really a constraint only holding withina syllable, but is a constraint on a sequence of soundsholding within a word.
(Notice that in the exceptionalword "dyspepsia" the sequence "spep" spans a mor-pheme boundary since the s is part of the prefix "dys-",which occurs in words like "dysfunction", dyspha-sia", and "dystrophy".
)At first glance, the search through the lexicon ofpolysyllabic words containing the sequence sNVN sug-gests that the constraint on the sequence sNVN doesnot hold for polysyllabic words, unlike the constraint onsCVC sequences.
The following 12 words containingthe sequence sNVN were found: casement, congress-man, dismantle, emplacement, fastening (with the or-thographic e between the t and the n being deleted inpronunciation), marksman, placement, pronouncement,replacement, spokesman, statesman, and talisman.However, these words, like the exceptional "dyspep-sia" mentioned above, are not monomorphemic; all ofthese words (with the possible xception of"talisman")involve morpheme boundaries between the s and thefollowing nasal consonant.
These data thus indicate thatthe constraint on sNVN sequences (as well as on sCVCsequences) are constraints on a sequence of sounds thathold within morphemes; they can be considered mor-pheme structure constraints, not word level or syllablestructure constraints.The constraint disallowing (monomorphemic) sCVCsequences (in which the Cs are identical non-coronalconsonants) on further investigation turns out to be amore general constraint in that the two Cs do not haveCopyright 1989 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted providedthat the copies are not made for direct commercial dvantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
Tocopy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/89/010109-110503.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989 109Technical Correspondence Cross-Vowel Phonotactic Constraintsto be identical; rather, they cannot be articulated in thesame place in the vocal tract.
That is, there are virtuallyno monomorphemic words in English that have thesequence sCVC where the two Cs are either both labialor both velar.
The only word in the 20,000-word lexiconthat was found to violate this constraint is the word"skunk".
The words "skag", "spam", and "spumoni"would also violate the constraint although they were notlisted in the lexicon.
That this constraiint really doesinvolve identical place of articulation is made evidentwhen we consider the situation where the two Cs in ansCVC sequence are not homorganic.
A search throughthe 20,000-word computerized lexicon revealed that noconstraint whatsoever held when the two Cs were madeat different locations in the vocal tract.
For example,the sequence skV was followed by a labial consonant in58 entries (e.g., "skip", "scuba"), an alveolar conso-nant in 151 entries (e.g., skit, skate), and a palato-alveolar consonant in 25 entries (e.g., scotch, sketch).The fact that there were virtually no words with a velarconsonant following an skV sequence is of interest.Moreover, the sequence spV was followed by a velarconsonant in 56 entries (e.g., spike, spook), an alveolarconsonant in 196 entries (e.g., spit, speed), and apalato-alveolar consonant in 20 entries (e.g., speech,special); there were virtually no words where a labialconsonant followed an spV sequence.
Thus it is con-cluded that the constraint on sCVC sequences originallyformulated by Clements and Keyser (1983) and Davis(1984) as a constraint on the occurrence of identicalnon-coronal consonants i in fact a more general con-straint on consonants made in the same place of artic-ulation.Although the constraint against having homorganic(non-coronal) consonants flanking both sides of thevowel in a sCVC sequence seems to be a real constraintof English, it remains omewhat of a mystery why thereshould be such a constraint.
The constraint cruciallymust include s since there is no constraint on EnglishCVC sequences where the two Cs are homorganic.
Acheck through the 20,000-word computerized lexiconfound I18 entries for words having (non-nasal) labialconsonants flanking both sides of the vowel in a CVCsequence: and 138 entries for words having a velarconsonant flanking both sides of a vowel in a CVCsequence.
Thus this constraint only involves an sCVCsequence and not any CVC sequence.
I offer no expla-nation for why the presence of the s in an sCVCsequence ssentially places a restriction on the postvo-calic consonant.
It is conjectured, though, that while thereason for such a constraint is a mystery, speakers ofEnglish make use of them for parsing words in contin-uous speech.
For example, given the constraint onsCVC sequences discussed in this paper, phonetic se-quences like \[spalpleln\] (i.e., spy plane) and \[Itsmaln\](i.e., it's mine) can only be parsed as "spy plane" and"it's mine", respectively.
They cannot be parsed as"spipe lane" and "it smine", respectively, nor couldthey be parsed as single words.
It is quite possible thatspeakers of English can and do make use of suchphonotactic constraints.Stuart DavisSpeech Research LaboratoryDepartment ofPsychologyIndiana UniversityBloomington, IN 47405ACKNOWLEDGMENTSI wish to thank David Pisoni for his comments and Michael Dedinaand Luis Hernandez for their technical assistance.
This research wassupported by an N1H Training Grant NS-07134-09 to Indiana Univer-sity.REFERENCESClements, George N. and Keyser, Samuel J.
1983 CV Phonology.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Davis, Stuart M. 1984 Some Implications of Onset-Coda Constraintsfor Syllable Phonology.
Chicago Linguistic Society 20: 46-51.Fudge, Erik C. 1969 Syllables.
Journal of Linguistics 5: 253-287.110 Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989
