A PRAGMATICS-BASED APPROACH TO ELL IPS IS  RESOLUTIONSandra  CarberryDepartment of Computer and Information SciencesUniversity of DelawareNewark, DE 19716Intersentential elliptical utterances occur frequently during information-seeking dialogs in task do-mains.
This paper presents a pragmatics-based framework for interpreting such utterances.
Discourseexpectations and focusing heuristics are used to facilitate recognition of an information-seeker's intentin uttering an elliptical fragment.
The ellipsis is comprehended by identifying both the aspect of theinformation-seeker's task-related plan highlighted by the fragment and the conversational discoursegoal fulfilled by the utterance.
The contribution of this approach is its consideration of pragmaticinformation, including discourse content and conversational goals, rather than just the preciserepresentation of the preceding utterance.1 INTRODUCTIONIncomplete utterances are common in communicationbetween humans.
They range from sentences that fail toinclude all requisite semantic information to syntacti-cally incomplete sentence fragments.
In many cases,these utterances cannot be understood in isolation, butmust be interpreted within the established context.Precisely how this should be done is a difficult problemfor natural language systems.One might suggest hat the problem be avoided inman-machine communication by training human usersto employ only syntactically and semantically completeutterances.
However, this does not appear to be feasi-ble, as demonstrated in an empirical study conducted byCarbonell (1983) in which it was shown that humanusers find it easy to avoid complex syntactic structuresbut difficult o avoid incomplete utterances.Even if it were possible to train users to avoidincomplete utterances, these restrictions would be un-desirable.
Constraining man-machine communication toonly a subset of the utterances normally employed byhumans would force users to give less attention to theirproblem solving goals in order to concentrate more onthe preciseness of their utterances.
In addition, it ap-pears that fragmentary utterances are not merely aresult of sloppy communication.
Although every utter-ance has a discourse goal (a conversational or commu-nicative goal such as answering a question or seekingclarification), elliptical fragments are often used toaccomplish discourse goals that would require moreeffort to convey with a complete sentence.
For exam-ple, in the following dialog ~, Speaker 2's fragmentexpresses doubt about the proposition stated bySpeaker 1.Example 1Speaker 1: "The Korean jet shot down by the Sovietswas a spy plane.
"Speaker 2: "With 269 people on board?
"However, a complete sentence such asSpeaker 2: "Was the Korean jet shot down by theSoviets a spy plane with 269 people on board?
"fails to adequately communicate he doubt conveyed bythe previous fragment.
Only a more complex sentencethat marks the discourse goal, such asSpeaker 2: "How can you think that the Korean jetshot down by the Soviets was a spy plane, when ithad 269 people on board?
"will accomplish this objective.Thus a robust natural language interface must handlethe kinds of incomplete utterances normally used byhumans.
To do otherwise is to prohibit communicationthat humans regard as natural, and therefore detractfrom their ability to communicate as effectively withmachines as they do with one another.Contextual ellipsis in dialog is the use of a sentencefragment (a syntactically incomplete utterance), alongwith the context established by the preceding dialog, tocommunicate a complete thought and accomplish aCopyright 1989 by the Association for Computational Linguistics.
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted providedthat the copies are not made for direct commercial dvantage and the CL reference and this copyright notice are included on the first page.
Tocopy otherwise, or to republish, requires a fee and/or specific permission.0362-613X/89/010075-96-$ 03.00Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989 75Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis Resolutionspeech act 2.
Such fragments are often referred to asintersentential ellipsis since they appear between sen-tences in a dialog.
It can be seen, however, thatunderstanding intersentential ellipsis often dependsmore on pragmatic knowledge, such as the inferredtask-related plan and discourse goals motivating thespeaker, than on the syntactic structure or semanticcontent of preceding utterances.
This is illustrated byExamples 2 and 3, in which Speaker l's communicatedgoal and the relevant plans for accomplishing it play amajor role in understanding the elliptical fragment.Example 2Speaker 1: "I want to cash this clheck.
Small billsonly, please.
"Example 33Speaker 1: "Who are the candidates for program-ming consultants?
"Speaker 2: "Mary Smith, Bob Jones, and Ann Doehave applied for the job.
"Speaker 1: "Tom's recommendation?
"Speaker 2: "He thinks Bob Jones and Ann Doe havethe necessary background and should be invitedfor an interview.
"In Example 2, Speaker l's goal is to cash a check, andrelevant plans can include a subplan for getting aparticular distribution of paper money; in Example 3,Speaker l 's goal is hiring programming consultants,perhaps for an introductory programming course, andthe relevant plans for doing this include a subplan foridentifying the best applicant.Previous research on understanding intersententialellipsis has emphasized syntactic and semantic strate-gies (Hendrix et al 1978; Waltz 1978; Weischedel andSondheimer 1982; Carbonell 1983), but the contribu-tions of the speaker's plans and goals to the interpreta-tion of ellipsis has hitherto been inadequately explored.One objective of our research as been to investigate aplan-based framework for understanding intersententialellipsis that occurs in task-oriented ialogs.
Our workshows that elliptical fragments can be viewed as high-lighting aspects of the information-seeker's ta k-relatedplan, with the focus of attention in the plan providingthe context in which the fragment should be under-stood.But identifying the aspect of the speaker's planhighlighted by the ellipsis is not enough to understandthe utterance.
As shown by Grosz (1979), a speaker maypursue several different kinds of goals with a singleutterance.
For example, an information-seeker has thelong-term goal of performing a task comprised of sub-tasks; this hierarchical structure produces a set oftask-related goals.
The information seeker is attemptingto construct a plan for his underlying task, resulting inplan formation goals.
In addition, each utterance pur-sues a more immediate discourse goal, such as request-ing information or seeking clarification.
As has beenshown by several researchers (Mann et al 1977; Reich-76man 1978; Pollack et al 1982), one must determine notonly the element of the task being addressed by anutterance, but also the discourse goal being fulfilled byit.
Previous research on understanding ellipsis has ig-nored this aspect.
Thus a second objective of ourresearch as been to formulate a strategy for recogniz-ing discourse goals communicated by elliptical frag-ments.
Our work indicates that mutual beliefs andexpectations developed from the preceding dialog play amajor role in identifying the intent behind intersenten-tial ellipsis.Our processing framework coordinates many knowl-edge sources, including discourse xpectations, inferredbeliefs, the information-seeker's inferred task-relatedplan, and focusing strategies, to produce a rich inter-pretation of ellipsis.
It is the first interpretation strategyto address the problem of identifying the discourse goalaccomplished via an intersentential e liptical fragment.As a result, this pragmatics-based framework under-stands elliptical fragments that other systems cannothandle.2 STRATEGIES FOR INTERPRETING INTERSENTENTIALELLIPSISAs illustrated by Examples 1, 2, and 3, intersententialelliptical fragments cannot be understood in isolationfrom the context in which they occur.
Therefore astrategy for interpreting such fragments must rely onknowledge obtained from sources other than the frag-ment itself.
Three possibilities exist: the syntactic formof preceding utterances, the semantic representation fpreceding utterances, and expectations gleaned fromunderstanding the preceding discourse.A strategy using the first kind of knowledge mightperform two transformations on the syntactic form of apreceding utterance.1.
a substitution/expansion operation in which theelliptical fragment is substituted for a syntacticconstituent in the preceding utterance, or thesyntactic representation of the preceding utter-ance is expanded to accommodate he fragment.2.
a transformation operation that maps questionsinto answers, statements into questions, etc.Syntactic strategies are exemplified by the work inHendrix et al (1978) and Weischedel et al (1982).Howe, ver, many examples of ellipsis cannot be handledby syntactic strategies.
Consider again the dialog pre-sented in Example 2.
No transformation ormodificationof Speaker l's first statement will produce an utterancethat represents the intended meaning of Speaker l'selliptical fragment.The second potential strategy uses the semanticrepresentation of the last utterance as a pattern thatsuggests slots for which an elliptical fragment mayprovide a filler or a substitution.
Semantic strategies arepresented in Waltz (1978) and Carbonell (1983).
How-ever, semantic strategies require an extensive caseComlmtatioual Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis Resolutionframe representation a d are inadequate for handlingelliptical fragments that rely on an assumed communi-cation of the underlying task.
For example, it is improb-able that the case frame for programming consultant inExample 3would contain slots for the recommendationsof individual faculty.The third potential strategy utilizes pragmatic knowl-edge, such as a model of the information-seeker'sinferred task-related plan and expected iscourse goals.The power of this approach is its reliance on knowledgegleaned from the dialog, including discourse contentand conversational goals, rather than on precise repre-sentations of the preceding utterances alone.Allen (Allen et al 1980) addressed the problem ofunderstanding sentence fragments occurring at the out-set of a dialog, and was the first to relate ellipsisprocessing to the domain-dependent plan underlying aspeaker's utterance.
Allen viewed the speaker's utter-ance as part of a plan that the speaker had constructedand was executing to accomplish is overall task-relatedgoals (in this case, to meet or board a train).
To interpretelliptical fragments, Allen first constructed a set ofpossible surface speech act representations for theelliptical fragment, limited by syntactic lues appearingin the fragment; he then attempted toinfer the speaker'sgoal-related plan that included an execution of theobserved utterance.
A part of this inference processinvolved etermining which of the partially constructedplans, connecting the task-related goals of meeting orboarding a train and the observed utterance, werereasonable given the knowledge and mutual beliefs ofthe speaker and hearer.
Allen selected the surfacespeech act that produced the most reasonable inferredplan as the correct interpretation.Allen noted that the speaker's fragment must identifythe subgoals that the speaker is pursuing, but claimedthat in very restricted omains, identifying the speak-er's overall goal from the utterance was sufficient oidentify the appropriate response in terms of the obsta-cles present in such a plan.
For isolated sentencefragments in his restricted omain of train arrivals anddepartures, Allen's interpretation strategy worked well.To understand elliptical fragments during a dialog in amore complex domain, it is necessary to identify theparticular aspect of the speaker's overall task-relatedplan addressed by the fragment and recognize thediscourse or communicative goal being pursued.More recently, Litman (1986) developed a plan-basedtheory that incorporates both domain plans and meta-plans to understand utterances.
Similar to Allen, Lit-man used syntactic lues in the utterance to postulatespeech acts "request" or "inform" that an ellipticalfragment was intended to accomplish, and she thenattempted to construct an inference path from a postu-lated speech act to the plan inferred for the speaker.However, it appears that Litman's ystem would handlean elliptical fragment such asComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989"With 269 people on board?
"from Example 1 in much the same way as the completesentence"Did the Korean jet have 269 people on board?
"As such, Litman's strategy would be unable to recog-nize the surprise and doubt conveyed by the ellipticalfragment in Example 1.
In addition, Litman's metaplans(such as Introduce-Plan, Continue-Plan, and Modify-Plan) are more like plan construction metaplans thanmetaplans representing communicative goals such asexpressing surprise or seeking clarification of a ques-tion.
We contend that recognition of the speaker'sdiscourse or communicative goal must be an integralpart of any strategy that really understands ellipsis.In addition to the syntactic, semantic, and plan-basedstrategies, a few other heuristics have been devised.Carbonell (1983) used rules that suggested a set ofexpected user utterances and related elliptical frag-ments to these expected patterns.
For example, if thesystem asked the user whether aparticular value shouldbe used as the filler of a slot in a case frame, the systemthen expected the user's utterance to contain a confir-mation or disconfirmation pattern, a different filler forthe slot, a comparative pattern such as "too hard", andso forth.
Although these rules use expectations abouthow the speaker might respond, they seem to have littleto do with the expected iscourse goals of the speaker;as a result, they would be unable to differentiate frag-ments that merely request information from fragmentswhose intent is to seek clarification or express urprise.3 SCOPE OF THE RESEARCHThis paper describes a pragmatics-based approach forunderstanding intersentential elliptical fragments thatoccur in information-seeking dialogs.
We have studieddialogs in which the information-seeker is attempting toconstruct a plan for accomplishing a task, but the planitself will be executed at some time in the future.Examples of such tasks include expanding a company'sproduct line, purchasing a home, pursuing a degree, oreven taking a vacation.
We have selected this class ofdialogs because they are typical of a large percentage ofthe interactions with database management systems,decision support systems, and expert systems.
How-ever, the principles presented in this paper should beextendible to other kinds of dialogs.Our hypotheses and strategies were motivated by ananalysis of naturally occurring dialogs from severaldomains, including a radio call-in show 4 providing ad-vice on investments, interactions with the REL (Thomp-son 1980) natural language interface to a ship data base,and student advisement sessions.
We are assuming thatthe natural anguage system plays the role of informa-tion-provider and that communication is via a typicalterminal.
Since our primary interest in this research isthe affect of expectations and inferred knowledge on77Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis Resolutionellipsis understanding, we have not considered thecontribution of clue words (words and phrases, such as"Now" and "As I was saying", that contain informa-tion about he structure of a discourse (Reichman 1978))to the processing of ellipsis.
However, they certainlycould be incorporated into our strategy.In this research, we are attempting to ascertain theextent to which pragmatic knowledge can be used tounderstand ellipsis and the limitations of such an ap-proach.
However, we do not maintain that a naturallanguage system should use only pragmatic knowledge;a robust system will need to coordinate syntactic,semantic, and pragmatic techniques in order to fullyunderstand the wide variety of elliptical utterancesemployed in human communication.In the remainder of this paper, we argue for the use ofpragmatic knowledge in ellipsis understanding, andpresent a pragmatics-based approach for understandingintersentential e liptical fragments uttered by a personseeking information in order to construct a plan foraccomplishing a task.
Section 4 discusses the knowl-edge needed to understand elliptical fragments.
Section5 describes our overall interpretation framework, whichis presented in detail in sections 6-8.
Our strategy viewselliptical fragments as highlighting, or bringing to atten-tion, aspects of the information-seeker's underlyingtask-related plan, with discourse xpectations used toguide interpretation.
Section 6 presents the discourse orcommunicative goals that we have found pursued viaelliptical fragments in information-seeking dialogs.
Sec-tion 7 discusses how discourse expectations developduring a dialog, describes how these expectations sug-gest discourse goals that an information-seeker mightpursue, and presents discourse goal rules for recogniz-ing elliptical fragments that accomplish a particulardiscourse goal.
The discourse goal rules guide how thefragment's highlighting of a component of the task-related plan should be understood; Section 8 describesa strategy for identifying the highlighted portion of theplan.
Section 9 illustrates our framework with severalexamples, and sections 10 and 11 discuss future exten-sions to this work and our conclusions.
Throughout thispaper, the information seeker and information providerwill be referred to as IS and IP respectively.4 REQUISITE KNOWLEDGEA speaker can felicitously employ intersentential ellip-sis only if he believes his utterance will be properlyunderstood and his intent recognized by the listener.The motivation for this work is the hypothesis thatspeaker and hearer mutually believe that certain knowl-edge has been acquired during the course of the dialogand that this factual knowledge along with other proc-essing knowledge will be used to deduce the speaker'sintentions.
We claim that the requisite factual knowl-edge includes the speaker's inferred task-related plan,the speaker's inferred beliefs, and the anticipated is-course goals; of the speaker; we claim that the requisiteprocessing knowledge includes plan recognition strate-gies and focusing techniques.4.1 TASK-RELATED PLANAccording to Grice (1957,1969), a listener must infer aspeaker's intent in making an utterance.
Now consideran incomplete utterance.
The listener, in attempting todeduce the speaker's intent, will be guided by Grice'sconversational maxims (Grice 1975).
In particular,Grice's maxims of manner and relation suggest that thespeaker believes his utterance is an adequate vehicle forconveying his intentions and that the utterance is rele-vant to the current dialog.
A cooperative listener willhave assimilated the preceding dialog, inferred much ofthe underlying task-related plan motivating the speak-er's queries, and be focused on that aspect of the taskon which the information-seeker's attention was cen-tered (Grosz 1977; Carberry 1983; Carberry 1988) im-mediately prior to the new utterance.
Given an incom-plete utterance, the listener can use this acquiredknowledge to attempt o deduce the speaker's inten-tions by trying to fit the utterance into the partiallyconstructed plan, and thereby enable the dialog tocontinue without interruption.This claim that the speaker's underlying task-relatedplan is an essential component of an ellipsis interpreta-tion strategy is further supported by research demon-strating the need for considering such plans in under-standing other types of utterances.
Grosz (1977) andRobinson (1981) used models of the speaker's task inapprentice-expert dialogs to determine the referents ofdefinite noun phrases and verb phrases.
Perrault andAllen (Perrault et al 1980) used expectations of speakergoals, and inference of their plans for achieving thesegoals, in the interpretation of indirect speech acts.
Inaddition, Allen (Allen et al 1980) introduced the con-cept of a plan-based strategy for interpreting fragmen-tary utterances at the outset of a dialog in a restricteddomain.4.2 SHARED BELIEFSShared beliefs, beliefs which the listener believesspeaker and listener mutually hold, are a second com-ponent of factual knowledge required for processingintersentential elliptical fragments.
These shared beliefseither represent presumed a priori knowledge of thedomain, such as a presumption that dialog participantsin a university domain know that each course has ateacher, or beliefs derived from the dialog itself.
Anexample of the latter occurs if IP tells IS that CS360 isa 5 credit hour course; IS may not himself believe thatCS360 is a 5 credit hour course, but as a result of IP'sutterance and the assumption of a cooperative dialog,he does believe it is mutually believed that IP believesthis.Real understanding requires that we identify thespeaker's discourse goal in making the utterance.78 Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis ResolutionShared beliefs, often called mutual beliefs, form a partof communicated knowledge used to interpret utter-ances and identify discourse goals in a cooperativedialog.
The following two dialog sequences illustratehow IP's beliefs about IS influence understanding.IS: "When does CS400 meet?
"IP: "CS400 meets on Monday from 7 pm until 9 pm.
"IS: "Who is teaching it?
"IP: "Dr.
Brown.
"IS: "At night?
"Most people would interpret he fragmentary utterance"At night?"
as an expression of surprise and request forcorroboration or explanation.
Now consider the follow-ing dialog:IS: "Who is teaching CS400?
"IP: "Dr. Brown is teaching CS400.
"IS: "At night?
"In this case, the elliptical fragment "At night?"
wouldbe understood as a simple request o know whetherCS400 is meeting at night.
The reason for this differencein interpretation is the difference in beliefs regarding ISat the time the elliptical fragment is uttered.
In the lattercase, IP believes it is mutually believed that IS does notknow IP's beliefs about the meeting time of CS400.Since IS cannot be surprised about something hedoesn't know, a different intention or discourse goal isattributed to him.Allen and Perrault (Perrault et al 1980) used mutualbeliefs in their work on indirect speech acts and sug-gested their use in clarification and correction dialogs.Sidner (1983, 1985) models user beliefs about systemcapabilities in her work on recognizing speaker inten-tion in utterances.
Mutual beliefs appear to be a majorinfluence on how human listeners interpret and respondto utterances.4.3 DISCOURSE EXPECTATIONSA number of researchers (Sacks et al 1974; Labov andFanshel 1977; Mann et al 1977) have noted regularitiesin dialog and have attempted to capture these regulari-ties in knowledge structures that can be used for com-prehending utterances.
For example, Mann, Moore,and Levin (Mann et al 1977) used a knowledge struc-ture called a dialog game to model goal-related use oflanguage in joint interactions such as buying/selling andlearning/teaching.
Grosz and Sidner (Grosz et al 1986)and Reichman (1984) have investigated discourse struc-ture and have shown that a coherent discourse can besegmented into units that have well-defined relation-ships to one another.
Reichman contended further thatthe existing discourse structure established expecta-tions about appropriate next conversational moves.Our analysis of naturally occurring dialog indicatesthat such expectations about appropriate next steps inthe dialog form a third component of factual knowledgethat plays a major role in comprehending ellipticalfragments.
The dialog preceding an elliptical utterancemay suggest discourse or communicative goals for thespeaker, such as seeking clarification of a question,expressing surprise at a question, or answering a ques-tion.
Our transcript analysis leads us to hypothesize thatthese suggested iscourse goals become shared knowl-edge between speaker and hearer and that, as a result,the listener is on the lookout for the speaker to pursuethese anticipated iscourse goals and interprets utter-ances accordingly.Consider for example the following dialog:Example 4IP: "Do you want to take CS360?
"IS: "Who is teaching it?
"IP: "Dr. Brown and Dr.
White.
"IS: "Yes, with Dr.
White.
"In this example, IP's initial query produces a stronganticipation that IS will pursue the discourse goal ofproviding the requested information.
Therefore subse-quent utterances should be processed with the expecta-tion that IS will eventually address this goal.
IS's firstutterance is interpreted as pursuing a discourse goal ofseeking additional information in order to answer thequestion.
IS's last utterance reverts back to addressingthe original expectation and answers the initial queryposed by IP.4.4 PROCESSING KNOWLEDGEOur transcript analysis indicates that plan recognitionstrategies and focusing techniques are necessary com-ponents of processing knowledge for interpreting in-tersentential ellipsis.
Plan recognition strategies areessential in order to infer a model of the speaker'sunderlying task-related plan, shown earlier to be anessential component of factual knowledge, and to con-sider possible expansions of that plan when processingelliptical fragments.Focusing techniques (Grosz 1977; Sidner 1981; Rob-inson 1981; McKeown 1985; Carberry 1988) are neces-sary in order to identify that portion of the underlyingplan to which a fragmentary utterance refers.
Consideragain the dialog in Example 3.
The focus of attention inthis dialog is on considering the job applicants andevaluating them; therefore IS is most expected to con-tinue with this subtask before considering other aspectsof his overall task (Carberry 1983, 1988).
As a result,IS's fragmentary utterance "Tom's recommendation?
"will be understood as a request for Tom's opinion aboutthe suitability of the job applicants for the job ofprogramming consultant.
However, if the focus of at-tention were instead on determining the number ofconsultants needed, then IS's fragmentary utterancewould be understood ifferently.5 FRAMEWORK FOR PROCESSING ELLIPSISIf an utterance is parsed as a sentence fragment, ellipsisprocessing begins.
In our approach, we assume that theComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989 79Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis Resolutionprocessor has access to a model of the preceding dialogcontaining 1. a context ree (Carberry 1988) represent-ing IS's inferred underlying task-related plan; 2. a stackcontaining the discourse xpectations for IS, and 3. abelief model representing IS's inferred beliefs.
Thesecomprise the requisite factual knowledge discussed inthe preceding section.We claim that the discourse expectations for ISshould be used to guide interpretation of fragmentaryutterances.
The top element of the discourse stackrepresents the most immediate discourse expectationfor IS and suggests potential discourse goals that ISmight be expected to pursue.
If IS employs a completeutterance, the utterance generally gives clues about IS'sdiscourse goal; in this case, the discourse xpectationsplay a secondary role.
However, if IS employs anelliptical fragment, then he must intend that the frag-ment be interpreted according to these expectations.
ISbelieves that IP expects him to pursue certain discoursegoals and therefore that IP will be anticipating utter-ances directed toward these goals.
If IS does not wanthis utterance interpreted according to these expecta-tions, then his utterance must override them, either bynot producing an interpretation appropriate to an ex-pected discourse goal or by explicitly suggesting adifferent discourse goal (via the use of clue words).Otherwise IS is assumed to intend that his utterance beinterpreted according to IP's expectations.The following alternative utterances by IS illustratethis hypothesis:IP: "Do you want to take CS360?
"Response 1: IS: "Are you asking me ifI want to takeit next semester?
"Response 2: IS: "Will it be offered next semester?
"Response 3: IS: "Next semester?
"In Response 1, IS's utterance indicates that it is anattempt to clarify the question posed by IP; in Response2, IS's utterance simply requests information aboutCS360 in order to formulate an answer to IP's question.However, in Response 3, IS's utterance is an ellipticalfragment that conceivably could produce several differ-ent interpretations.
It might be an attempt to clarify thequestion posed by IP, it might be a request for informa-tion about when CS360 is offered in order to formulatean answer to the posed question, or it might be anexpression of surprise that IP would ask such a question(for example, if CS360 is only offered next semester andIS already has a very full schedule).
Such ellipticalfragments do not explicitly indicate IS's discourse goalin uttering the fragment and thus understanding reliesheavily on mutual beliefs, including the discourse goalsthat IS is expected to pursue.Thus we claim that IS must intend that his ellipticalfragment be interpreted according to these mutuallybelieved expectations.
Figure 1 presents our algorithmfor ellipsis resolution.
It uses the stack of discourseexpectations to control interpretation of elliptical frag-80ments (Loop A of Figure 1).
Associated with eachexpectation is a discourse xpectation rule that suggestsdiscourse goals that IS might pursue (steps 2 and 3 inFigure 1).
Each suggested iscourse goal has one ormore associated iscourse goal rules that are applied inan attempt 1:o produce a coherent interpretation of theelliptical fragment (Loop B in Figure 1).
We view IS'selliptical fragment as highlighting, or bringing to atten-tion, some aspect of the underlying task-related plan.The condition part of a discourse goal rule uses theaspect of the plan highlighted by the elliptical fragment,as identified by a plan analyzer (step 9 in Figure I),along with other factual and processing knowledge todetermine whether its associated iscourse goal shouldbe recognized as the discourse goal being pursued byIS.
If the condition part of a discourse goal rule issatisfied, the rule then produces an interpretation of theelliptical fragment relevant o the recognized iscoursegoal (steps 11-13 in Figure 1).
The individual steps ofthe algorithm in Figure 1 will be described in thefollowing sections.6 DISCOURSE GOALSWe define a discourse goal intuitively as what thespeaker is trying to do in making an utterance.
Thediscourse goal itself is content independent, although itsrealization in an utterance will involve some term orproposition from the speaker's underlying task-relatedplan.
For example, the discourse goal Express-Sur-prise-Obtain-Corroboration represents a speaker's at-tempt to convey to his listener that he is surprised atsome proposition P and would like justification of it.A number of researchers have contended that acoherent discourse consists of segments that are relatedto one another.
The structuring relations have beengiven many names, including rhetorical predicates(Grimes 1975, McKeown 1985), coherence relations(Hobbs 1979), discourse segment purposes (Grosz1986), and conversational moves (Reichman 1984).
Ourconcept of discourse goals is closest to Grosz andSidner's discourse segment purposes and Reichman'sconversational moves.
Grosz and Sidner define a dis-course segment purpose as the intended role of adiscourse segment in achieving an overall discoursepurpose.
They contend that the discourse segmentsucce,~sfully serves its intended function only if thediscourse segment purpose is recognized by the lis-tener.
Similarly, we contend that understanding anelliptical fragment requires that the listener identify thediscourse goal being pursued by the speaker in utteringthe fragment.
Reichman differentiated between utter-ances that continued the current discourse segment andutterances that constituted conversational moves to asegment playing a different role in the overall dialog.Some of her conversational moves, such as challenginga claim, had the flavor of goals that one might pursue ina dialog.
Similar to our work, Reichman contended thatComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis ResolutionL?a?PInputDISC-STACK: discourse stack containing expectations about the user's discoursebehavior, along with the semantic representation f the utterancethat prompted each expectation.SEM-REP: semantic representation f the elliptical fragment.CONTEXT-TREE: representation f the system's beliefs about the user'sunderlying task-related plan.BELIEF-MODEL: representation f the system's beliefs about the user's beliefs.ProcedureI.SUCCESS ~-- FALSE;--Until SUCCESS = TRUE, Repeat2.DISC-EXP-RULE ~-- discourse xpectation rule associated with Top(DISC-STACK);3.SUGGESTED-DISC-GOAL-SET ~--goals uggested by DISC-EXP-RULE;--While SUCCESS = FALSE and SUGGESTED-DISC-GOAL-SET:~ 0 Do4.SUGGESTED-DISC-GOAL ~ first element of SUGGESTED-DISC-GOAL-SET;5.SUGGESTED-DISC-GOAL-SET ~-- SUGGESTED-DISC-GOAL-SET - {SUGGESTED DISC-GOAL};6.DISC-GOAL-RULE-SET ~ discourse goal rules associated with SUGGESTED DISC-GOAL;Loop --While SUCCESS = FALSE and DISC-GOAL-RULE-SET:/: 0 DoB - 7.DISC-GOAL-RULE ~ first element of DISC-GOAL-RULE-SET;8.DISC-GOAL-RULE-SET ~-- DISC-GOAL-RULE-SET - {DISC-GOAL-RULE};9.Call plan analyzer to identify elements of the user's plan highlighted by the elliptical fragment.Input to Plan AnalyzerCONTEXT-TREE: representation f system's beliefs about user's plan.Loop SEM-REP: semantic representation f the elliptical fragment.C -  BELIEF-MODEL: representation f system's beliefs about user's beliefs.Output from Plan AnalyzerT: term in user's plan highlighted by elliptical fragment, if any.P: proposition in user's plan highlighted by elliptical fragment, if any.CONTEXT-PROPS: conjunction of propositions forming context for T or P in the user's plan.10.If the conditions in DISC-GOAL-RULE are satisfied, ThenI I.SUCCESS ~-- TRUE;12.DISCOURSE-GOAL ~-- SUGGESTED-DISC-GOAL;13.INTERPRETATION ~--interpretation generated by DISC-GOAL-RULE;End If-Then;--End While-Do;--End While-Do;14.If SUCCESS = FALSE, Then pop the top element of DISC-STACK;--End Until-Repeat;OutputDISCOURSE GOAL: user's identified iscourse goalINTERPRETATION: Interpretation of the elliptical fragmentFigure 1.
Algorithm for Interpreting Elliptical Fragments.conversational moves establish expectations about sub-sequent conversational moves.
However,  both dis-course segment purposes and conversational movesdiffer from our discourse goals in that a discoursesegment may contain more than one utterance-- ie.,discourse segment purposes and conversational movesrelate discourse segments, not utterances.
In addition,neither Grosz and Sidner nor Reichman provide thedetails of a computational mechanism for identifying therole of an utterance in a dialog.
Our theory does this forelliptical fragments in an information-seeking dialog.Given the discourse goal expectations, it provides amechanism for understanding an elliptical fragment byrecognizing the intentions it communicates.We have analyzed dialogs from several differentComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989domains and have identified 15 discourse goals thatoccur during information seeking dialogs and whichmay be accomplished via elliptical fragments.
The fol-lowing are some of these discourse goals, with illustra-tive examples.1.
Provide-For-Assimilation: IS provides informationpertinent o formulation of his underlying task-related plan.IS: " I  want to get a degree.
""CS major."2.
Obtain-Information: IS requests information rele-vant to constructing the underlying task-relatedplan or relevant to formulating an answer to aquestion posed by IP.81Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis ResolutionIS: "Is CS360 being offered this fall?
"IP: "Yes.
"IS: "The instructor?"3.
Express-Surprise-Obtain-Corroboration: IS ex-presses urprise regarding some proposition P andrequests elaboration on, and justification of, it.IS: "What time does CS360 meet this fall?
"IP: "Monday, Wednesday, and Friday at 8 am.
"IS: "Who is teaching it?
"IP: "Dr.
Smith.
"IS: "At 8 am?"4.
Seek-Identify: IS is unable to satisfactorily identifythe referent of an item in IP's utterance andrequests help from IP in doing so.IS: "What is Dr. Smith teaching this fall?
"IP: "CS360.
"IS: "The course in architecture?"5.
Seek-Clarify-Question: IS requests informationrelevant to clarifying a question posed by IP.IP: "Do you want to take CS105?
"IS: "Next semester?"6.
Suggest-Answer-Own-Question: IS suggests an an-swer to his own question.
IS's intent is to suggestthat IP give particular consideration to IS's pro-posal in formulating an answer to the question.IS: "What course should I take during wintersession?""CS370?"7.
Answer-Question-With-Restrictions: IS answers aYes-No question, providing restrictions on therelevant underlying task-related plan.IP: "Would you like to take CS360?
"IS: "At night with Dr.
White.
"Although they are not explicitly accomplished via ellip-tical fragments, two other discourse goals play a majorrole in understanding ellipsis and will be discussedfurther in the next section:?
Accept-Response: IP has responded to IS's requestfor information; IS accepts the response.?
Accept-Question: IP has posed a question to IS; ISaccepts the question.7 DISCOURSE COMPONENT7.1 DISCOURSE EXPECTATIONSThe discourse goals of the preceding section also serveas discourse expectations.
As argued in Section 43,discourse xpectations play a major role in the compre-hension of elliptical fragments.
When IS makes anutterance, he is attempting to accomplish a discoursegoal; this discourse goal may in turn establish expecta-tions about what IS will do next.
For example, if IS asksa question, one anticipates that IS may want to expandon his question by further identifying an entity or byclarifying the question.Similarly, utterances made by IP also establish ex-pectations for IS.
These discourse xpectations may82often be met implicitly as well as explicitly.
Considerwhat happens when IP poses a question to IS.
In acooperative dialog, we expect IS to answer the ques-tion.
But before that can occur, IS must understand thequestion and accept it as relevant and valid.
Normallydialog participants accept such questions implicitly byanswering the question or by proceeding to seek infor-mation relevant to formulating an answer.
However, ISmay be unable to accept the question posed by IPbecause he does not understand it (perhaps he is unableto identify some of the entities mentioned in the ques-tion), or because he is surprised by it.
This leads IS topursue discourse goals such as seeking confirmation,seeking the identify of an entity, seeking clarification ofthe posed question, or expressing surprise at the ques-tion.
Thus, when IP poses a question to IS, our dis-course expectations are that IS will first accept thequestion (or if that is not yet possible, work towardsaccepting it) and then answer it.
Thus these two expec-tations must be pushed onto the discourse stack andshould serve to guide our understanding of ellipticalfragments.7.2 THE DISCOURSE STACKThe discourse stack contains expectations about IS'sdiscourse behavior, along with the semantic represen-tation of the utterance that prompted the expectation.We contend that understanding elliptical fragments re-lies on discourse xpectations that are pushed onto orpopped from the stack as a result of utterances made byIS and IP.
Precisely how this is accomplished in allcases is unclear.
However, in this section, we willmotivate the contents of the discourse stack by giving aset of stack processing rules that hold for simpleutterances 5.
These rules presume that the discoursegoal accomplished by an utterance can be identified.Although our theory for ellipsis processing includesrecognition of the discourse goal fulfilled by an ellipticalfragment, we have not investigated the recognition ofdiscourse goals pursued via complete sentences.
This isan issue that requires further study and must take intoaccount indirect speech acts (Perrault et al 1980).
Thediscourse stack accessed by our ellipsis processor(steps 2 and 14 in Figure l) represents the system'scurrent beliefs about discourse xpectations, but ourimplementation does not include actually constructing itfrom the dialog preceding the elliptical fragment.
Ourintent in this section is to motivate the contents of thediscourse stack immediately preceding an elliptical frag-ment.For example, when IP asks a question of IS, IS isfirst expected to accept he question, either explicitly orimplicitly, and then answer the question.
Similarly,when IP answers aquestion posed by IS, IS is expectedto accept the response, either explicitly or implicitly,and then pursue other discourse goals.
This reasoningleads to the stack processing (SP) rules.Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis ResolutionSPI: If IP asks a question of IS with the discoursegoal of seeking information, Answer-Question a dAccept Question are pushed onto the discoursestack.SP2: When IP answers a question posed by IS,Accept-Response is pushed onto the discoursestack.When IS pursues a discourse goal, such as seekinginformation or clarification, one's expectation is that ISwill continue pursuing this discourse goal with subse-quent utterances.
This leads to the stack processing ruleSP3: When IS actively pursues a discourse goal, thediscourse goal is pushed onto the discourse stack.Although the strongest expectations are that IS willpursue a goal suggested by the top element of thediscourse stack, this expectation can be passed over, atwhich point it no longer suggests expectations forutterances.
This produces the stack popping (SPP) ruleSP4: When IS's utterance does not pursue a goalsuggested by the top entry on the discourse stack,this entry is popped from the stack.Other stack processing rules are similarly motivated andformulated.
I f lP asks or answers aquestion, SP1 or SP2respectively apply.
If IS makes an utterance, then ruleSP4 is applied until it fails, at which point rule SP3 isapplied.7.3 SUGGESTED DISCOURSE GOALSWe have argued that an ongoing dialog establishescertain discourse xpectations for IS and have repre-sented these expectations a a discourse stack.
We havefurther claimed that elliptical fragments do not explicitlyindicate the discourse goal being pursued, and thereforeIS must intend that elliptical fragments be interpretedaccording to mutually believed expectations.
From ouranalysis of naturally occurring dialogs, we have formu-lated discourse xpectation rules indicating how dis-course expectations suggest he identity of IS's dis-course goal.
Associated with each discourseexpectation is a rule that suggests a set of one or morediscourse goals that IS might pursue and the order inwhich they should be considered.Suppose that IP has posed a question to IS.
Then thestrongest discourse xpectation is that IS will under-stand and accept the posed question or work towardunderstanding and accepting it.
In order to understand aquestion, the question must have been satisfactorilytransmitted.
If not, IS will attempt o confirm thosecomponents he believes may have been miscommuni-cated; thus the first suggested iscourse goal for ISunder this discourse xpectation is Seek-Confirm.
OnceIS believes the question has been properly transmitted,he must be able to satisfactorily identify the referents ofthe entities mentioned in the question.
If he cannot doso, he may attempt to obtain further identification ofanentity; thus the second suggested discourse goal for ISunder this discourse xpectation is Seek-Identify.
Oncethe components ofthe question are understood, IS mustbelieve he fully comprehends what is being asked.
If hedoes not, he must obtain clarification of the questionbefore he can answer it; thus the third suggested is-course goal for IS under the discourse xpectation ofaccepting the question is Seek-Clarify-Question.
Oncethe question is understood, IS may refuse to accept it byexpressing surprise at an inference drawn from thequestion or at the fact that the question was asked at all.Thus the fourth suggested iscourse goal under thediscourse xpectation of accepting the question is Ex-press-Surprise-Question.
This leads to the followingdiscourse xpectation (DE) rule:Rule DEI: The discourse xpectation Accept-Ques-tion suggests the following ordered set of discoursegoals for IS:1.
Seek-Confirm2.
Seek-Identify3.
Seek-Clarify-Question4.
Express-Surprise-QuestionIn a cooperative dialog, once IS has understood andaccepted a question, IP expects him to answer it and istherefore on the lookout for an answer.
Therefore firstpreference is given to interpretations that accomplishthis goal; thus the first discourse goals suggested for ISin this situation are those that answer the question,directly or indirectly.
If IS is unsure of the best answerto the question, he may suggest one or more possibleanswers and request IP's help in evaluating them; thusthe second discourse goal suggested for IS is Suggest-Answer-Question.
I  a cooperative dialog, we expect ISto answer questions posed to him.
If he does not do so,he must not have sufficient knowledge to formulate agood answer; in this case, we expect IS to work towardbeing able to answer the question by gathering whateverextra information he needs.
Thus the third discoursegoal suggested for IS under the discourse xpectation ofanswering the question is Obtain-Information.
Thisanalysis leads to the following discourse expectationrule:Rule DE2: The discourse xpectation Answer Ques-tion suggests the following partially ordered set ofdiscourse goals for IS:1.
Answer-QuestionAnswer-Question-With-RestrictionsAnswer-Question-Suggest-Alternative2.
Suggest-Answer-Question3.
Obtain-InformationIf IS has been informing IP about certain aspects of hisunderlying task-related plan, our strongest expectationis that he will elaborate on the plan by providing furtherdetail.
However, in an information seeking dialog, weanticipate that IS is providing this knowledge as back-ground information i  order to help IP formulate coOp-erative responses to subsequent questions.
Thus oursecond expectation is that IS will request informationComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989 83Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis Resolutionabout the domain in order to achieve his objective ofconstructing a plan for his underlying task.
This leads tothe following discourse xpectation rule:Rule DE3: The discourse expectation Provide-For-Assimilation suggests the following ordered set ofdiscourse goals for IS:1.
Provide-For-Assimilation2.
Obtain-InformationOther discourse expectation rules are similarly moti-vated and formulated.As described earlier, discourse xpectations are rep-resented in the discourse stack.
These discourse xpec-tations suggest anticipated behavior for IS and areanalyzed in turn until a coherent interpretation for theelliptical fragment is identified (Loop A in Figure 1).The top element of the discourse stack contains thestrongest discourse xpectation at the current point inthe dialog.
The rule associated with this discourseexpectation is used to suggest discourse goals that ISmight pursue (steps 2 and 3 in Figure 1).
Each of thesesuggested iscourse goals is tried in turn (Loop B inFigure 1).
If it is determined that IS is not pursuing anyof the discourse goals suggested by a discourse xpec-tation, then that discourse xpectation is popped fromthe discourse stack (step 14 in Figure 1) and the processis repeated (Loop A in Figure 1) using the rule associ-ated with the new discourse xpectation ow residingon top of the stack to suggest discourse goals for IS.Thus, for example, when IP asks IS a question, thediscourse expectations Answer-Question and Accept-Question are successively pushed onto the discoursestack.
If IS then uses an elliptical fragment, the dis-course expectation Accept-Question will first be u~ed tosuggest discourse goals that IS might be pursuing.However, if an interpretation of the fragment accom-plishing one of these suggested iscourse goals cannotbe constructed, then this discourse xpectation will bepopped from the discourse stack; this indicates that IShas understood and implicitly accepted the questionasked by IP.
The top element of the stack will now beAnswer-Question and it will be used to suggest dis-course goals that IS might be pursuing via the fragment.
(Note that although discourse expectations can bepopped from the discourse stack, a cooperative dialogparticipant will never pass over the discourse goal ofanswering a question.
In this research, we have as-sumed that the participants are always cooperative.
)7.4 DISCOURSE GOAL RULESWe have claimed that processing of elliptical fragmentsshould be controlled by the discourse expectations ineffect at that point in the dialog.
Discourse xpectationssuggest discourse goals that IS might be expected topursue.
If an elliptical fragment can be interpreted aspursuing a suggested iscourse goal, then this interpre-tation of the fragment should be regarded as the oneintended by IS; otherwise IS would have overridden84these expectations, ince he is aware that they will beused in unde, rstanding his utterances.Associated with each discourse goal is one or morediscourse goal rules (step 6 in Figure 1): each ruleapplies factual and processing knowledge to analyze afragment and determine whether it can be understood aspursuing the discourse goal with which the rule isassociated (Loop C in Figure 1).
We view fragments ashighlighting terms or propositions in the underlyingtask-related plan; recognition of the highlighted aspectis described in the next section.
The discourse goal rulesdetermine whether IP believes that it is mutually be-lieved that IS might be pursuing the discourse goalunder consideration and whether the highlighted aspectof the plan provides ufficient information for recogniz-ing the suggested discourse goal (step 10 in Figure 1).
Ifso, then the elliptical fragment should be understood asdirected toward accomplishing this suggested iscoursegoal and a related interpretation produced (steps 11-13in Figure 1).In order to demonstrate how discourse goal rulesfacilitate recognition of the discourse goal that IS isexecuting, let us examine how IS might seek identifica-tion of an entity appearing in IP's utterance.
Figure 2Seek-Identify- I(IS, entityl)Applicability 7 Know(IS, Referent(entityl))Conditions: Want(IS, Know(IS, Referent(entityl)))Body: Request(IS, IP, Inform(IP, IS,Referent (entityl)))Effect: Seek-Identify(IS, entity 1)Seek-Identify-2(IS, entityl, entity2)Applicability 7 Know(IS, Referent(entityl))Conditions: Want(IS, Know(IS, Referent(entityl)))Know(IS, Referent(entity2))7 Believe(IS, 7 Same-Referents(entityl, entity2))Body: Request(IS, IP, Inform(IP, IS,Same-Referents(entity l, entity2)))Effect: Seek-Identify(IS, entityl)Figure 2 Two Plans for Seeking Identification of an Entity.presents two plans, Seek-Identify-1 and Seek-Identify-2, whose primary effect is the same, namely to seekidentification of an entity.
These two plans differ in thatin the body of the first plan, IS directly requests furtheridentification of the entity in question, whereas in thesecond plan, IS attempts to determine the entity byasking if it is the same as an entity with which he isfamiliar.
Now let us consider how an elliptical fragmentmight be recognized as pursuing one of these plans.Suppose we have the following dialog:IS: ~'What CS courses are being offered during thesummer?
"IP: "'CS105 and CS461.
"Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis ResolutionIS: "CS461 ?
"Suppose further that Seek-Identify has been suggestedas a discourse goal for IS.
If IS intends IP to recognizeSeek-Identify-1 as the discourse plan that he is pursu-ing, then he must indicate entityl, the entity whoseidentification he is requesting.
The elliptical fragment"CS461?"
may be understood as doing this.
The appli-cability conditions for Seek-Identify-1 specify con-straints that must be satisfied in order for IS to pursuethis plan; only if IP believes that it is mutually believedthat these constraints are satisfied can IP infer that ISintends him to recognize that he is pursuing this dis-course goal.
In the above dialog, IP believes that it ismutually believed that IS wants to know the referent ofCS461 since CS461 was mentioned in IP's previousresponse; it is also reasonable for IP to believe that ISmay not know the referent of CS461.Let us examine this latter belief in greater detail.
Onemight ask why IP did not provide an extended escrip-tion of CS461 in her previous response, if she believesthat IS cannot satisfactorily identify the course from itsdepartment and number.
This is not an issue with whichthis paper is concerned, but we will suggest one possi-bility.
In constructing a description, IP uses knowledgeabout the listener (Appelt 1985, Goodman 1986) toproduce a concise reference that she believes will beacceptable.
Sometimes she will be quite certain that thelistener will be able to identify the referent of herdescription--for example, perhaps the same descriptionhas been used successfully before.
At other times, IPwill be uncertain whether the description is sufficientlydetailed; she could go to the extreme and include everydetail at her disposal, but this may confuse the listenerand hamper identification (Goodman 1986).
Therefore,if IP does not know that IS can identify the referent ofan entity from her description, she must wait for IS'sresponse to this description to determine its success.
Inthe case of the above dialog, IS does not implicitly orexplicitly accept the description (he could do this bypassing over the discourse goal of Seek-Identify) and IPis left with the belief that her description was unsatis-factory.In contrast, consider the following variation of theabove dialog:IS: "What courses is Dr. Jones teaching next fall?
"IP: "CS440 and CS461.
"IS: "What days is CS461 offered?
"IP: "Monday evenings.
"IS: "What courses are being offered during thesummer?
"IP: "CSI05 and CS461.
"IS: "CS461?
"It is unlikely that IS's last utterance would be inter-preted as seeking identification of CS461.
This is be-cause IS implicitly accepted IP's first response, imply-ing that he understood the description "CS461", andsubsequently used it himself.
This leads IP to believethat IS can satisfactorily identify the referent of the term"CS461".
Therefore, if IS really does want to pursuethis discourse goal, he must override IP's belief with anutterance such as"I haven't heard of CS461.
What course is it?
"This leads to the discourse goal (DG) rule:Rule DG-Seek-Identify-l: Check that the followingconditions are satisfied:1.
IS's elliptical fragment terminates in a "?"2.
The fragment highlights a component of IS'sunderlying task-related plan and matches a de-scription used in the utterance by IP that isclosest o the top of the discourse stack.3.
It is mutually believed that IS might not knowthe referent of this description.If these conditions are satisfied, then interpret hefragment as seeking further identification ofthe high-lighted plan component.The first condition in the above rule checks that IS ismaking a request (the body of the plan for Seek-Identify-1 in Figure 2), the second condition checks thatIS has provided a component of his plan (which mightbe the entity whose referent is the object of the requestin the Seek-Identify-1 plan in Figure 2) and that it isreasonable to believe that he wants to know its referent(the second applicability condition in the Seek-Identify-1 plan in Figure 2), and the third condition checks thatIS does not already know what this referent is (the firstapplicability condition in the Seek-Identify-1 plan inFigure 2).
A discourse goal rule is only invoked whendiscourse xpectations suggest that IS might be pursu-ing its associated iscourse goal.
Therefore, if theconditions of an invoked rule are satisfied, then IS hasprovided all the information ecessary for IP to believethat IS is pursuing that goal and IP is justified ininterpreting the elliptical fragment accordingly.Similarly, if IS intends IP to recognize Seek-Identify-2 as the discourse plan that he is pursuing, then itsapplicability conditions must be satisfied and IS mustindicate both entityl (the entity whose identification heis requesting) and entity2 (the entity with which he isfamiliar).
Entity2 must be provided explicitly by theelliptical fragment, since it is new information otcurrently focused on in the dialog, and entityl implicitlyby the plan element with which the fragment is associ-ated.
This leads to the following discourse goal rule:Rule DG-Seek-Identify-2: Check that the followingconditions are satisfied:I.
IS's elliptical fragment terminates in a "?"2.
The fragment highlights a component of IS'sunderlying task-related plan and this compo-nent is referenced by a description D in theutterance by IP that is closest o the top of thediscourse stack.Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989 85Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis Resolution3.
It is mutually believed that IS might not knowthe referent of the description D.4.
It is mutually believed that IS does not believethat the fragment and the description D refer todifferent entities 6.If these conditions are satisfied, then interpret hefragment as seeking further identification ofthe high-lighted plan component.
In particular, IS's fragmentdescribes an entity with which he is familiar and askswhether this entity and the highlighted plan compo-nent are the same.One might suggest using a general plan recognitionstrategy to recognize discourse goals as well as domaingoals.
However, such a strategy has not been ade-quately worked out even for complete utterances, al-though Litman's work (Litman and Allen 1987) is amajor step in this direction.
Furthermore, as we arguedearlier, elliptical fragments require special treatment.Our discourse goal rules are compilations of the kind ofreasoning that must be done on discourse plans toascertain if an elliptical fragment is intended to berecognized as pursuing a suggested discourse goal.The following are four other sample discourse goalrules.
As mentioned earlier and discussed in detail in thenext section, an elliptical fragment is viewed as high-lighting a term T or proposition P in IS's plan, possiblywithin the context of an additional set of propositions,which we will refer to in the following rules as CON-TEXT PROPS.
For example, the fragment "With Dr.Smith?"
might highlight he propositionP = Teach(SMITH,_ss:&SECTIONS),but the plan inferred from the preceding dialog mightindicate that P should be interpreted within the contextof the additional propositionsIs Section Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, CS200)Section Offered(_ss:&SECTIONS,NEXT-SEMESTER)If IS's discourse goal were identified as Obtain Infor-mation, the resultant interpretation would be that ISwants to know whether Dr. Smith is teaching a sectionof CS200 next semester, not merely whether Dr. Smithis ever teaching a section of any course.
The examplesin Section 9 will illustrate the use of the following rules.Rule DG-Express-Surprise-Obtain-Corroboration-1:Check that the following conditions are satisfied:1.
IS's elliptical fragment terminates in a "?"2.
The fragment highlights a proposition P in thecontext of a conjunction of propositions CON-TEXT-PROPS in IS's underlying task-relatedplan.3.
It is mutually believed that IS already knowsIP's beliefs about the truth of the proposition(P/k CONTEXT-PROPS).If these conditions are satisfied, then interpret hefragment as expressing surprise at IP's response andseeking corroboration of it.
In particular, IS is sur-prised at the known truth value of (P/~ CONTEXT-PROPS) in light of the new information provided byIP's response and the proposition P highlighted byIS's t'ragment.Rule DG-Obtain-Information: Check that the follow-ing conditions are satisfied:1.
IS's elliptical fragment terminates with a "?"2.
The fragment highlights a term T or propositionP in the context of a conjunction of propositionsCONTEXT-PROPS in IS's underlying task-re-lated plan.3.
It is mutually believed that IS does not knowthe value of the highlighted term or proposition.If these conditions are satisfied, then interpret hefragment as requesting information about he value ofthe highlighted term T or proposition P within thecontext of the propositions in CONTEXT PROPS.Rule DG-Provide-For-Assimilation: Check that thefollowing conditions are satisfied:1.
IS's elliptical fragment terminates with a .
.
.
.2.
The fragment highlights a term T or propositionP in the context of a conjunction of propositionsCONTEXT-PROPS in IS's underlying task-re-lated plan.If these conditions are satisfied, then interpret hefragment as specifying that the user-specified termreplace the term with which it is associated in theplan or that the proposition be satisfied as part of theplan being constructed.Rule DG-Answer-Question-With-Restrictions-I:Check that the following conditions are satisfied:1.
IS's elliptical fragment terminates with a .
.
.
.2.
The last unanswered question asked by IP (theone at the top of the discourse stack) was aYes-No question.3.
The elliptical fragment highlights one or morepropositions P in the context of a conjunction ofpropositions CONTEXT-PROPS in IS's under-lying task-related plan.If these conditions are satisfied, then interpret hefragment as answering yes, with the restriction thatthe proposition (P A CONTEXT-PROPS) be satis-fied in the underlying plan.8 PLAN ANALYSTS8.1 REPRESENTATION OF PLANSWe view a plan as the means by which an agent canaccomplish a nonprimitive, task-related goal.
Plans arerepresented, using an extended STRIPS formalism(Fikes and Nilsson 1971; Allen et al 1980), as structurescontaining applicability conditions, preconditions, aplan body, and effects.
The plan body is a decomposi-tion of the plan's goal into a set of simpler subgoals,each of which can be accomplished by a primitive actionor itself has an associated omain plan.
Arguments inplans are either constants, represented as uppercase86 Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis Resolution*Earn-Credit(IS, CS300, NEXT SEMESTER, _cr:&CREDITS)whereCourse-Offered(CS300, NEXT SEMESTER)Credits-Of(CS300, _cr:&CREDITS)*Earn-Credit-Section(IS, _ss: &SECTIONS)whereIs-Section-Of(_ss: &SECTIONS, CS300)Section Offered(_ss:&SECTIONS, NEXT SEMESTER)*Learn-Material(IS, _ss: &SECTIONS, _syl: &SYLBI)whereIs-Syllabus-Of(_ss: &SECTIONS, .syI:&SYLBI)I*Learn-From-Person(IS,_ss:&SECTIONS,_fac: &FACULTY)whereTeaches(_fac:&FACULTY,_ss:&SECTIONS)I*Attend-Class(IS,_plc:&MTG-PLCS,MONDAY,.tme:&MTG-TIMES)whereIs-Mtg-PIc(oss:&SECTIONS,_plc:&MTG-PLCS)Is-Mtg-Day(_ss:&SECTIONS,MONDAY)Is-Mtg-Time(_ss:&SECTIONS,_tme:&MTG-TIMES)Learn-From-Text(IS,_txt:&TEXTS)whereUses(_ss:&SECTIONS,.txt:&TEXTS)Figure 3 A Portion of an Expanded Context Model.strings, or typed variables, represented as lowercasestrings preceded by the character "_" and followed bythe characters " :&" and an uppercase string giving thevariable's type.
These plans are hierarchical, sincemany of the subgoals in a plan are nonprimitive andtherefore have associated plans that may be substitutedfor them.
Thus a plan can be expanded to any desireddegree of detail, by repeatedly replacing subgoals withassociated plans, which themselves contain constituentsubgoals.We use a tree structure called a context model torepresent the task-related plan inferred for IS from thepreceding dialog.
Each node in this tree represents agoal that IS has investigated achieving and, except forthe root, is a descendant of a higher-level g0al whoseassociated plan contains the goal represented by thechild node.
For example, in the context model shown inFigure 3, IS is interested in achieving the subgoal oflearning the material in a section of CS300 and hasinvestigated learning from the instructor and learningfrom the text.
Since only those subgoals that have beeninvestigated as part of a plan for achieving a goal areincluded in the context model, a goal node can havedifferent children in two context models derived fromdifferent dialogs.
One node in the context model ismarked as the current focus of attention and indicatesthat aspect of the task on which IS's attention isComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989currently centered.
The path from the root of thecontext model to the current focus of attention is calledthe active path and represents the global context, orsequence of progressively ower-level goals that led tothe subgoal under consideration by IS.
Carberry (1983,1988) describes how the context model is dynamicallyconstructed from an ongoing dialog.8.2 ASSOCIATION OF FRAGMENTSWe view elliptical fragments as highlighting, or callingattention to, a term or proposition in IS's underlyingtask-related plan.
Given an elliptical fragment, he task-related plan inferred for IS must be analyzed to deter-mine, based on the current focus of attention, theparticular aspect of the plan highlighted by IS's frag-ment.
This paper will discuss three classes of ellipticalfragments; a description of how other fragments areassociated with plan elements i  provided in Carberry(1985).We will call the matching of fragments with planelements association.
A constant fragment can onlyassociate with terms whose semantic type is the same ora superset of the semantic type of the constant.
Fur-thermore, each term in a plan has a limited set of validinstantiations.
A constant associates with a term only ifthe system's beliefs indicate that IS might believe that87Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis Resolutionthe uttered constant is one of the term's valid instanti-ations.
For example, if a plan contains the propositionStarting-Date(AI-CONF, _date:&DATES)the elliptical fragment "February 2?"
will associatewith the date term in this proposition only if the systembelieves IS might believe that the starting date for theAI conference is in February.
Recourse to such a beliefmodel is necessary in order to allow for Yes-No ques-tions to which the answer is "No"  and yet eliminatepotential associations which a human listener wouldrecognize as unlikely.
Sidner (1981) employs a similarstrategy in her work on anaphora resolution.
A co-specifier proposed by the focusing rules must be con-firmed by an inference machine; if any contradictionsare detected, other co-specifiers are suggested.
)A propositional fragment can be of two types.
Thefirst contains a proposition whose name is the same asthe name of a proposition in the plan domain.
Thesecond type is a more general propositional fragment,which cannot be associated with a specific plan-basedproposition until after analyzing the relevant proposi-tions appearing in IS's plan.
The semantic representa-tions of the utterances"Taught by Dr.
Smith?
""With Dr.
Smith?
"would produce respectively the type 1 and type 2propositionsTeaches(SMITH, _ss:&SECTIONS)Genpred(SMITH)The latter indicates that the name of the specific planproposition is as yet unknown, but that one of itsparameters must associate with the constant Smith.A proposition of the first type associates with aproposition of the same name if the parameters of thepropositions associate.
A proposition of the second typeassociates with any proposition whose parameters in-clude terms associating with the known parameters ofthe propositional fragment.The semantic representation f a term such as "Themeeting time?"
contains a variable term_tme: &MTG-TIMESSuch a term associates with terms of the same semantictype in IS's plan.
Note that the existing plan maycontain constant instantiations in place of former vari-ables.
A term fragment still associates with such con-stant terms.8.3 RETAINING ESTABLISHED CONTEXTIt appears that humans retain as much of the establishedcontext as possible in interpreting intersentential ellip-sis.
Carbonell (1983) demonstrated this phenomenon ian informal poll in which users were found to interpretthe fragment in the following dialog as retaining thefixed media specification.88IS: "What is the size of the 3 largest single port fixedmedia disks?
"IP: .
.
.
.
.
.IS: "Disks with two ports?
"We have noted the same phenomenon i  other domains.Thus, when an elliptical fragment is associated with acomponent of the task-related plan, the context estab-lished by the preceding dialog should be used to replaceinformation deleted from this streamlined, fragmentaryutterance.As mentioned earlier, we use a context tree torepresent the underlying task-related plan inferred forIS at this point in the dialog.
The set of nodes along thepath from the root of the context ree to the currentfocus of attention form a stack of goals and associatedplans, the topmost of which is the most recently con-sidered subgoal in the current focused plan; each ofthese goals is part of the plan associated with the goalimmediately beneath it in this stack.
These active nodesrepresent the established global context, and the prop-ositions in these nodes can have the effect of restrictingthe instantiation of variables in their ancestor nodes inthe context ree.
For example, in Figure, IS's mostrecently considered subgoal is attending class on Mon-day; this restricts the sections that he is currentlyconsidering taking to those which meet on Monday,thus limiting the possible instantiations of the variable_ss in the Learn From Person, Learn Material, and EarnCredit-Section subgoals higher up on the active path.These restrictions represent part of the context withinwhich the elliptical fragment occurs and, unless over-ridden by infbrmation i  the utterance itself, representinformation that is missing from the sentence fragmentbut is understood by the speaker.
Thus, if we use thepropositions appearing along the active path, we canretain the restrictions on the variables in ancestor nodeswhen the focus of attention pops back to them.
On theother hand, the nodes along the paths from the root ofthe context ree to the nodes at which fragment ele-ments associate with plan elements represent the newcontext derived from IS's fragmentary utterance.For example, consider the following dialog:IS: "What days is CS300 taught next semester?
"IP: "Two sections of CS300 meet on Monday andone section meets on Tuesday.
"IS: "What time do the sections on Monday meet?
"IP: "One section meets on Monday at 4 pm andanother section meets on Monday at 7 pro"IS: "The texts?
"A portion of the expansion of IS's inferred task-relatedplan is shown in Figure 3.
Active nodes are marked byasterisks.
The semantic representation f the fragment"The texts?"
will contain the variable term _book:&TEXTS.
This term associates with the term _txt:&TEXTS appearing at the node for the goalLearn-From-Text(IS, _txt:&TEXTS)Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis ResolutionwhereUses(oss:&SECTIONS, _txt:&TEXTS)The propositions along the active path areCourse-Offered(CS300, NEXT SEMESTER)Credits-Of(CS300, _cr:&CREDITS)Is-Section-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, CS300)Section-Offered(_ss:&SECTIONS,NEXT-SEMESTER)Is-Syllabus-Of(_ss: &SECTIONS, _syl: &SYLBI)Teaches(_fac: &FACULTY, _ss:&SECTIONS)Is-Mtg-PIc(_ss:&SECTIONS, _plc:&MTG-PLCS)Is-Mtg-Day(_ss:&SECTIONS, MONDAY)Is-Mtg-Time(_ss: &SECTIONS,_tme:&MTG-TIMES)These propositions maintain the established context--namely, that we are talking about he sections of CS300next semester that meet on Monday.
The path from theroot of the context tree to the node at which theelliptical fragment associates with a term in the planproduces the additional proposition Uses(.ss:&SECTIONS,_book:&TEXTS).
Thus the fragmenthighlights the term .book:&TEXTS within the contextof the conjunction of this proposition and the ninepropositions appearing in the active nodes.
(These 10propositions are referred to as CONTEXT-PROPS inthe discourse goal rules of Section 7.4.)
The semanticsof this interpretation is that IS is drawing attention tothe term _book:&TEXTS such that the conjunction ofall 10 propositions i satisfied--namely, textbooks usedin sections of CS300 that meet on Monday next semes-ter.8.4 IDENTIFYING THE INTENDED ASSOCIATIONWithin IS's task-related plan, there often are multiplecomponents with which a fragment might associate.Therefore it is necessary to identify that aspect of theplan that IS intended to draw attention to by using theelliptical fragment.
Grosz has claimed that communica-tion can be successful only if both speaker and listenerare focused on the same subset of knowledge and if thelistener ecognizes any shifts in focus by the speaker.Grosz (1977) formulated rules for recognizing focusshifts in apprentice-expert task dialogs.
McKeown(1985) expanded on focus rules proposed by Sidner(1981) to explain how speakers hould organize theirutterances when faced with a choice of topic.We have investigated information-seeking dialogs inwhich the information-seeker is attempting toconstructa plan for a task to be executed at some time in thefuture.
These dialogs are not constrained by the order ofexecution of the steps of the underlying task, as inapprentice-expert dialogs.
However, such dialogs doComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989exhibit structure in that participants typically movearound in predictable ways to discuss different aspectsof the plan being constructed.
This structure has led tothe development of focusing rules that predict how aspeaker may shift his focus of attention within theunderlying task-related plan (Carberry 1983, 1988).An elliptical fragment by itself often contains verylittle information and the fragment is likely to be misin-terpreted if its relationship to the dialog context (repre-sented, in our case, by the discourse stack and thecontext model) is not correctly identified.
But sincediscrepancies in how participants view their knowledgemay exist, speakers using elliptical fragments cannotrely on finely grained plan structures for correct inter-pretation.
Thus small shifts in focus of attention in thecontext model are not significant in processing ellipticalfragments.Although a shift in focus occurs every time onemoves from a goal to a subgoal in the goal's associatedplan, some of these moves may represent relativelysmall shifts in attention while others may be quite large.We employ the notion of focus domains in order togroup together goals that appear to be at approximatelythe same level of focus when a plan is explicitly fo-cused.
Moving from one goal to another in the samefocus domain will be considered a smaller shift inattention than moving from a goal in one focus domainto one in a different focus domain.In a context model, a child node will often be in thesame focus domain as its parent.
However, if investi-gating how to achieve a goal represents a significantshift in focus from the plan that contains it, the goal ismarked in the plan library as introducing a new focusdomain.
This means that all of the goal's children(representing subgoals in its plan) will be part of adifferent focus domain than the goal itself---ie., a movefrom discussing the goal to considering how one wouldgo about achieving it represents a large shift in atten-tion.
In Figure 4, the subgoals preceded by a "B"  are ina different focus domain than those preceded by an"A" .
The goals of taking a particular section of acourse, learning the material of a course, and learningfrom a particular teacher all reside in the same focusdomain within the expanded plan for earning credit in acourse (and therefore are in focus to approximately thesame degree).
The goal of going to the cashier's office topay one's tuition also appears within this expandedplan; however, it is part of a different focus domain,introduced by the goal of paying tuition, since it doesnot come to mind nearly so readily when one thinksabout taking a course.
7 The goal Pay-Tuition(IS,_cr:&CREDITS) is marked in Figure 4 as A/B, indicatingthat it is in focus domain A but that it introduces focusdomain B (the goals in its associated plan are in focusdomain B).The focusing rules use mutual beliefs about knowl-edge currently focused on by the dialog participants andexpectations about probable shifts in focus to rank89Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis ResolutionI(A/B) Pay-Tuition(IS,_cr:&CREDITS)I(B) Pay(IS,_tut:&MONEY)whereCosts(_cr 1: &CREDITS,_tut:&MONEY)I(B) At(IS,_off:&OFFICE,_t: &TIME)whereIs-Office-Off_off: &OFFICE,CASHIER)B etween(_t: &TIME,_t 1: &TIME,_t2: &TIME)Opens-At(_off: &OFFICE,_t 1: &TIM E)Closes-At(_off:&OFFICE,_t2:&TIME)(A) Earn-Credit(IS, CS200, NEXT-SEMESTER, _cr:&CREDITS)whereCourse-Offered(CS200, NEXT-SEMESTER)Credits-Of(CS200, _cr:&CREDITS)I(A) Earn-Credit-Section(IS,_ss:&SECTIONS)wherel\[s-Section-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS,CS200)Section-Offered(_ss:&SECTIONS,NEXT-SEMESTER)(A) Learn-Material(IS,_ss: &SECTIONS,_syI:&SYLBI)whereIs-SylIabus-Of(oss:&SECTIONS,_syl:&SYLBI)(A) Learn-From-Person(IS,_sect:&SECTIONS,_fac: &FACULTY)whereTeaches(..fac:&FACULTY,_ss:&SECTIONS)Figure 4 Part of a Context Model Illustrating Two Focus Domains.alternative associations of elliptical fragments with ele-ments of IS's underlying task-related plan.
The currentfocus domain contains those goals that are most highlyfocused within IS's underlying task-related plan at thecurrent ime; therefore interpretations relevant to thesegoals are preferred.
For example, consider the followingdialog segment:IS: "Who is teaching CS440?
"IP: "Dr.
Smith.
"IS: "What textbook is being used?
"IP: "There is no textbook.
However, a set of papersand notes have been assembled into a coursemanual. '
'IS: "Does the bookstore carry the course manual?
"IP: "Yes.
"IS: "Any faculty discounts?
"Faculty discounts might be available on both coursestaken by faculty and books purchased at the bookstore.But humans interpret IS's elliptical fragment as askingwhether there is a discount for faculty purchases of thecourse manual at the bookstore.
This is explained bynoting that the goal of purchasing a text is part of thecurrent focus domain at the time the elliptical fragmentis uttered, whereas the goal of paying for the course isnot, and interpretations within the current focus domainor its descendants are preferred over other interpreta-tions in the overall plan.
This leads to the rule:Rule-Current-Focus-Domain: Associations with ele-ments in the current focus domain, or within expan-sions of the plans associated with goals in the currentfocus domain, should be preferred.Although the majority of elliptical fragments requirelittle shift in focus, fragments requiring significant focusshift do occur and are generally interpreted correctly byhuman dialog participants.
Consider for example thefollowing dialog:IS: "Who is teaching CS440?
"IP: "Dr.
Smith.
"IS: "What textbook is being used?
"IP: "There is no textbook.
However, a set of notesand papers have been assembled into a coursemanual. '
'IS: "Does the bookstore carry the course manual?
"IP: "Yes.
"IS: "3 credits?
"The fragment "3 credits?"
should be interpreted asasking whether CS440 is a 3 credit hour course.
Pur-chasing course materials appears as a subtask in theplan for taking CS440, and interpreting IS's ellipticalfragment requires hifting from the focus domain asso-ciated with this subtask to the focus domain associatedwith taking CS440.
This is accounted for by the expec-tation that IS will eventually return to the higher levelplans whose expansion led to the most recently consid-ered goal, leading to the following focus rule:Rule-Higher-Plans: Associations with elements in thefocus domains of higher level plans whose expansionled to the current focus domain should be preferredover other associations with elements that do notappear in an expansion of a goal in the currentfocused omain.Other focusing rules are similarly motivated.Although unsignaled focus shifts may sometimesseem awkward, human dialog participants appear torecognize their intended meaning as long as the utter-90 Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis Resolutionances are specific enough to avoid confusion.
As anexample, consider the following naturally occurringdialog that took place in early spring.Speaker 1: "Have you received the return receipt foryour conference paper?
"Speaker 2: "Yes, it came yesterday.
"Speaker 1: "August the m?
"The fragment "August the m?"
was correctly inter-preted by Speaker 2 as a request for the date thatSpeaker 2 would be attending the conference to whichthe paper had been submitted.In a few instances, an elliptical fragment may asso-ciate with two alternative lements of IS's underlyingtask-related plan, with the focusing heuristics ratingboth equally as the association i tended by the speaker.In this case, the utterance will be interpreted as address-ing both aspects of the speaker's plan.
This is discussedfurther in Carberry (1985).9 IMPLEMENTATION AND EXAMPLESA prototype system demonstrating this pragmatics-based framework for processing intersentential e lipsishas been implemented for a domain consisting of thecourses, policies, and requirements for students at auniversity.
The system is presented with a semanticrepresentation f an elliptical fragment, a context reerepresenting the system's beliefs about the informationseeker's underlying task-related plan, a belief modelrepresenting the system's beliefs about the informationseeker's beliefs, and an initial discourse stack contain-ing the system's beliefs about the information seeker'sexpected iscourse behavior.
The fragment's emanticrepresentation gives the structure of the fragment asdiscussed in Section 8.2 and its terminating punctua-tion.
The context ree is inferred and constructed fromthe preceding dialog using the incremental plan recog-nition algorithm implemented in the TRACK systemand described in Carberry (1988).
Our belief model isvery primitive and is only intended to facilitate illustra-tion of the ellipsis processor.
The belief model containspropositions that the system believes the information-seeker believes are satisfied.
These propositions may befully or partially instantiated; in the latter case, theyrepresent the belief that the information seeker believesthe proposition can be satisfied by a constant selectedfrom the designated type for the argument.
So, forexample, the system's belief that the information-seekerbelieves that the starting date of the AI conference is inFebruary would be represented in the belief model bythe propositionStarting Date(AI-CONF,_date: &FEBRUARY-DATES)where FEBRUARY-DATES is a subclass of DATES.The belief model also contains other beliefs, such as theobjects and types that the information-seeker knowsComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989about and the information-seeker's beliefs about thetypes of constants and about type generalization.
Sinceour research has not addressed issues such as howbeliefs are acquired during a dialog (Kass et al 1987),how they can be efficiently represented and updated ina user model (Finin et al 1986), or how discourse goalsare recognized from complete sentences, our implemen-tation does not include construction of the belief modelor the discourse stack from the dialog preceding theelliptical fragment.The following examples illustrate our ellipsis resolu-tion strategy.
8 All rules referenced in the first examplehave been described in the preceding sections.
Theother examples illustrate a variety of discourse situa-tions but, due to space limitations, are presented in lessdetail than the first example.9.1 EXAMPLE 1: OBTAINING INFORMATIONIS: "I want to register for a course for next semester.But I missed pre-registration.The cost?
"In this example, the first two utterances stablish a plancontext of taking a course, with attention directed to thesubtask of late registering for it, and the ellipticalfragment should be interpreted as the cost of registeringlate.
Since proper understanding of the fragment relieson inferred knowledge about IS's underlying task, thisexample requires a plan-based interpretation.IS's first two utterances provide information for thesystem to use in inferring IS's underlying task-relatedplan.
An expansion of the context ree at this point inthe dialog is shown in Figure 5.
In the belief model, theonly proposition about costs asserts that IS believesthat the cost of any item is of type MONEY; thereforethe system assumes that IS does not know the specificcost of individual items.
The semantic representation fthe elliptical fragment is the triple_costl:&MONEY Definite ?specifying that the fragment is a definite noun phrasewhose head noun is of type MONEY, followed by aquestion mark.
Based on the dialog preceding theelliptical fragment, the discourse stack contains theentry Provide-For-Assimilation (discourse stack ruleSP3 in Section 7.2).
Its associated discourse xpectationrule, Rule DE3, suggests that the strongest expectationis for IS to continue providing information to the systemand that the next strongest expectation is for IS to seekinformation in order to construct a plan for the taskmotivating his interaction with the system.
The dis-course goal rule associated with Provide-For-Assimi-lation, Rule DG-Provide-For-Assimilation, fails to findan interpretation since the elliptical fragment terminateswith a "?"
.
Next, the discourse goal rule associatedwith Obtain Information, Rule DG-Obtain-Information,is invoked.
It checks that the fragment terminates with91Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis Resolution*(A)Earn-Credit(IS..crse:&COURSE, N XT-SEMESTER, -cr:&CREDITS)whereCourse-Offered(_crse:&COURSE, N XT-SE, MESTER)Credits-Of(_crse:&COURSE, _cr:&CREDITS)I*(A) Earn-Credit-Section(IS, _ss:&SECTIONS)whereIs-Section-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, _crse:&COURSE)Section-Offered(.ss:&SECTIONS, NEXT-SEMESTER)*(A/C)Register-Late(IS, _ss:&SECTIONS, NEXT-SEMESTER)*(C)Miss-Pre-Reg(IS,NEXT-SEMESTER) (C)Pay Fee(IS, LATE-REG, NEXT-SEMESTER)(C)Pay(IS, _lreg:&MONEY)whereCosts(LATE-REG, NEXT-SEMESTER, _Ireg:&MONEY)Figure 5 A Portion of the Expanded Context Tree for Example 1.a period and calls the plan analysis component oassociate the fragment with IS's inferred underlyingtask-related plan.In the expanded context ree shown in Figure 5, theparenthesized letters preceding goals indicate eachgoal's focus domain, and nodes on the active path aremarked by asterisks.
Immediately prior to IS's ellipticalfragment, the current focused plan is the plan associatedwith the goal of registering late, the most recentlyconsidered aspect of this plan is missing pre-registra-tion, and the current focus domain contains the goalspreceded by (C).
IS's fragment associates with the term_Ireg:&MONEY in IS's inferred plan, as well as withterms elsewhere in parts of the expanded plan notshown in Figure 5.
However, none of the other termsappear in the current focus domain, and therefore theassociation of the fragment with _Ireg:&MONEY isselected as most relevant o the current dialog context.The path from the root of the context model to thecurrent focus of attention prior to the elliptical fragmentcontains the propositionsCourse-Offered(_crse:&COURSE,NEXT SEMESTER)Credits-Of(_crse:&COURSE, _cr:&CREDITS)Is-Section-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, _crse:&COURSE)Section Offered(_ss:&SECTIONS,NEXT-SEMESTER)indicating that the fragment should be interpreted withinthis context; the path to the node at which the fragmentassociates with a term in the plan provides the addi-tional propositionComputational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989Costs(LATE-REG, NEXT SEMESTER,_cost 1 :&MONEY)Since the belief model does not contain a propositionindicating that IS knows the value of the term _costl:&MONEY, Rule DG-Obtain Information interprets thefragment as seeking information about the charge forlate registration in order to formulate the task-relatedplan; in particular, IS is requesting the value of the term_costl:&MONEY such that the conjunction of the fol-lowing propositions (CONTEXT PROPS) is satisfied:Course-Offered(_crse:&COURSE,NEXT-SEMESTER)Credits-Of(_crse: &COURSE, _cr: &CREDITS)Is-Section-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, _crse:&COURSE)Section-Offered(_ss:&SECTIONS,NEXT SEMESTER)Costs(LATE-REG, NEXT SEMESTER,_cost 1 :&MONEY)9.2 EXAMPLE 2: EXPRESSING SURPRISEIS: "I want to take CS310 next semester.Who is teaching it?
"IP: "Dr. Smith is teaching CS310 next semester.
"IS: "What time does it meet?
"IP: "It meets at 8AM.
"IS: "With Dr.
Smith?
"This example illustrates an elliptical fragment that con-veys IS's surprise at IP's response and seeks elabora-tion and corroboration of it.
The semantic representa-tion of the elliptical fragment is92Sandra Carberry A Pi-agmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis ResolutionGenpred(SMITH) Proposition ?specifying that the fragment is followed by a questionmark and is a general propositional fragment that mustassociate with a plan proposition that has Smith as anargument.
The context tree immediately prior to theelliptical fragment is shown in Figure 6, with asterisks?
preceding nodes along the path from the root of thecontext model to the most recently considered goal.
Thebelief model indicates that IS knows that Dr. Smith isteaching a section of CS310 next semester, since thiswas communicated and accepted prior to the fragment.The top two entries of the discourse stack areAccept-ResponseObtain-Informationindicating that IS is first expected to accept IP's re-sponse to his previous question and then proceed toseek further information in order to expand his under-lying task-related plan.The discourse xpectation rule associated with Ac-cept-Response, similar to Rule DE1, suggests discoursegoals of Seek-Confirm, Seek-Identify, and Express-Surprise-Obtain-Corroboration.
The discourse goalrules associated with the first two of these discoursegoals fail to produce an interpretation since the frag-ment does not associate with a term in 1S's plan thatwas a component of IP's previous utterance.
RuleDG-Express Surprise-Obtain Corroboration-I checksthat the fragment ends with a "?"
and invokes plananalysis on the context ree shown in Figure 6.
It findsthat IS's elliptical fragment associates with the propo-sition Teaches(_fac:&FACULTY, _ss:&SECTIONS)producing the instantiated propositionP = Teaches(SMITH, _ss:&SECTIONS)In order to retain the existing dialog context, thisproposition must be interpreted within the context ofthe propositions appearing in nodes preceded by aster-isks in Figure 6, namelyCourse-Offered(CS310, NEXT SEMESTER)Credits-Of(CS310, _cr:&CREDITS)Is-Section-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, CS310)Section-Offered(_ss:&SECTIONS,NEXT SEMESTER)Is-Syllabus-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, _syl: &SYLBI)Is-Mtg-PIc(_ss:&SECTIONS, _plc:&MTG-PLCS)Is-Mtg-Day(_ss:&SECTIONS,_day:&MTG-DAYS)Is-Mtg-Time(_ss:&SECTIONS,_tme:&MTG-TIMES)The discourse goal rules refer to the conjunction of theabove eight propositions as CONTEXT PROPS.
Sinceour belief model indicates that IS already knows thetruth value of the proposition(P/~ CONTEXT-PROPS)- -  namely, that Dr. Smith is teaching a section of CS310next semester, Rule DG-Express-Surprise-Obtain-Cor-*(A)Earn-Credit(IS, CS310, NEXT-SEMESTER, _cr:&CREDITS)whereCourse-Offered(CS310, NEXT-SEMESTER)Credits-Of(CS310, _cr:&CREDITS)*(A)Earn-Credit-Section(IS, _ss:&SECTIONS)whereIs-Section-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, CS310)Section-Offered(_ss:&SECTION S, EXT-SEMESTER)I*(A)Learn-Material(IS,_ss:&SECTIONS,_syl:&SYLBI)whereIs-Syllabus-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS,_syl:&SYLBI)I*(A)Learn-From-Person(IS,_ss: &SECTIONS,_fac:&FACULTY)whereTeaches(-fac: &FACULTY,_ss: &SECTIONS)*(A)Attend-Class(IS,_plc:&MTG-PLCS,_day:&MTG-DAYS,_tme:&MTG-TIMES)whereIs-Mtg-PIc(.ss:&SECTIONS,_plc:&MTG-PLCS)Is-Mtg-Day(_ss:&SECTIONS,_day:&MTG-DAYS)Is-Mtg-Time(_ss:&SECTIONS,_tme: &MTG-TIMES)Figure 6 The Context Tree for Example 2.Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989 93Sandra Carberry A Pragrnatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis Resolutionroboration-1 identifies the elliptical fragment as ex-pressing surprise at, and requesting corroboration of,IP's response.
In particular, the system believes thissurprise is a result ofI.
the new information presented in IP's response,namely that 8 am is the value of the term _tree:&MTG-TIMES in the proposition Is-Mtg-Time(_ss:&SECTIONS,_tme:&MTG-TIMES) in CON-TEXT-PROPS.2.
the aspect of the plan highlighted by IS's ellipticalfragment, namely the propositionP = Teaches(SMITH,_ss:&SECTIONS)Precisely the reason why this data surprises IS wouldrequire an additional inference mechanism; perhaps Dr.Smith is known to be a notoriously late riser in themorning or perhaps Dr. Smith holds a full-time jobelsewhere and only teaches occasional evening coursesat the university.9.3 EXAMPLE 3: POPPING THE DISCOURSE STACKIP: "Do you want to take CS105 next semester?
"IS: "Who is teaching it?
"IP: "Dr. Ames and Dr.
Wilks.
"IS: "On Monday, Wednesday, Friday with Dr.Ames.
''This example illustrates a situation in which multipleexpectations must be popped from the discourse stackin processing the fragment.
IP's first utterance stab-lishes an expectation that IS will accept and answer thequestion asked by IP; therefore Answer Question andAccept-Question are pushed onto the discourse stack.As a result of IS's first utterance, the question isimplicitly accepted, popping Accept Question from thediscourse stack.
IS's first utterance is a request forinformation in order to formulate an answer to IP'sposed question, resulting in the expectation that IS willcontinue gathering such information; thus the expecta-tion Obtain-Information is pushed onto the discoursestack.
IP's response answers IS's question and causesthe expectation Accept-Response to be pushed onto thediscourse stack.
Thus the discourse stack passed to theellipsis processor contains the three entriesAccept-ResponseObtain-InformationAnswer-QuestionThe context tree at this point in the dialog would besimilar to that shown in Figure 6, except that CSI05would replace CS310 and only the first four nodeswould be on the active path.
The semantic representa-tion of IS's elliptical fragment is the triple\[GenTimePred(MON-WED-FRI),GenPred(AMES)\] Proposition.specifying that the fragment is a conjunction of twopropositions, followed by a period.The discourse expectation rule associated with the94top element of the discourse stack suggests the dis-course goals Seek-Confirm, Seek-Identify, and ExpressSurprise-Obtain-Corroboration.
The discourse goalrules associated with these discourse goals require thatthe fragment terminate with a question mark in order toproduce an interpretation.
Since this is not the case, theexpectation Accept-Response is popped from the dis-course stack.
The new top element of the discoursestack is Obtain-Information.
Its associated iscourseexpectation rule suggests the discourse goal of obtainingfurther information, since once IS pursues such a dis-course goal, he is expected to continue pursuing it withsubsequent utterances.
Once again, since the fragmentterminates in a " ."
,  the associated iscourse goal rule,Rule DG-Obtain-Information, fails to produce an inter-pretation, and the expectation Obtain-Information ispopped from the discourse stack.The discourse xpectation rule associated with theexpectation Answer-Question, Rule DE2, suggests,among others, the discourse goal of answering thequestion by providing restrictions on the underlyingtask-related plan.
Rule DG-Answer-Question-With-Re-strictions-1 invokes plan analysis on the context treeproduced by the preceding dialog and finds that thepropositions comprising the fragment associate with theplan propositionsIs-Mtg-Day(_ss:&SECTIONS, _day:&MTG-DAYS)Teaches(_fac: &FACULTY, _ss:&SECTIONS)resulting in the instantiated propositionsIs-Mtg-Day(_ss:&SECTIONS, MON-WED-FRI)Teaches(AMES, _ss:&SECTIONS)The nodes along the path from the root of the contextmodel to the current focus of attention prior to thefragment indicate that the fragment should be inter-preted within the context established by the additionalpropositionsCourse-Offered(CS 105, NEXT-SEMESTER)Credits-Of(CS 105, _cr:&CREDITS)Is-Section-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, CSI05)Section-Offered(_ss:&SECTIONS,NEXT-SEMESTER)Is-Syllabus-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, _syI:&SYLBI)Since the fragment erminates with a period and asso-ciates with plan propositions, discourse goal rule RuleDG-Answer-Question-With-Restrictions-I i terprets thequestion as answering affirmatively, with the restrictionthat the conjunction of the propositionsCourse-Offered(CS 105, NEXT-SEMESTER)Credits-Of(CS 105, _cr:&CREDITS)Is-Section-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, CS105)Section-Offered(_ss:&SECTIONS,NEXT-SEMESTER)Is- Syllabus-Of(_ss:&SECTIONS, _syI:&SYLBI)Teaches(AMES, _ss:&SECTIONS)Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis ResolutionIs-Meeting-Day(_ss: &SECTIONS,MON-WED-FRI)be satisfied in IS's task-related plan--namely that thesection of CS105 he enrolls in be taught by Dr. Amesand meet on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday nextsemester.10 EXTENSIONS AND FUTURE WORKThe main limitation of this pragmatics-based frameworkappears to be in handling intersentential elliptical utter-ances such as the following:IS: "Who is the teacher of CS200?
"IP: "Dr. Herd is the teacher of CS200.
"IS: "CS263?
"Obviously, IS's elliptical fragment requests the teacherof CS263.
Our model cannot currently handle suchfragments.
This limitation is caused by our mechanismsfor retaining dialog context; they assume that IS con-structs a plan for a task in a depth-first fashion, com-pleting investigation of a plan for CS200 before movingon to investigate a plan for CS263.
Since the teacher ofCS200 has nothing to do with the plan for taking CS263,the mechanisms for retaining dialog context will fail toidentify "teacher-of-CS263" as the information re-quested by IS.One might argue that the elliptical fragment in theabove dialog relies heavily on the syntactic representa-tion of the preceding utterance and thus a syntacticstrategy is required for interpretation.
This may be true.However, dialogs such as the above really investigatetask-related plans in a kind of "breadth-first" fashion;for example, in the above dialog, IS is analyzing theteachers of each course under consideration first, andwill then move to considering other attributes of thecourses.
It appears that our plan-based framework canbe extended to handle many such dialogs, by reasoningabout how IS is constructing his task-related plan(Ramshaw 1989).Litman (Litman et al 1987) uses metaplans in herformalism and is able to handle the fragment in theabove dialog.
However, she views IS as changing theplan from consideration of CS200 to CS263, not aspossibly considering several plans simultaneously.
As aresult, she cannot handle fragments uch as IS's lastutterance in the following dialog:IS: "Who is teaching CS105?
"IP: "Dr. Smith and Dr. Jones are teaching sections ofCS105.
"IS: "Who is teaching CS106?
"IP: "Dr. Derr is teaching CS106.
"IS: "The meeting time of Dr. Smith's section?
"It appears that successful handling of such fragmentsrequires that we consider several potential plans inparallel and we are now considering mechanisms fordoing so.This research as considered only interpretation ofsentence fragments.
But it appears that the plan ana-lyzer could be extended to provide information missingfrom a syntactically complete sentence.
For example,suppose IS asked:"Who is teaching CS300 on Monday next semes-ter?
"and then subsequently asked:"What textbooks will be used?
"The plan analyzer could identify both the element of theuser's plan that associates with the incompletely spec-ified proposition UsesPred(Unknown,_txt:&TEXTS)appearing in the semantic representation of the user'sutterance and the context within which the associationoccurs.
This would enable the system to recognize thatIS wants to know the texts used by sections of CS300that meet next semester on Monday.
This is similar tointerpreting the elliptical fragment "The texts?"
inSection 8.3.
A related problem, that of understandingpragmatically ill-formed utterances (utterances that vi-olate the system's model of the world), is addressed inCarberry (1988).11 CONCLUSIONSThis research has investigated the use of pragmaticknowledge in understanding intersentential e lipsis oc-curring during an information seeking dialog in a taskdomain.
Our ellipsis resolution strategy uses manypragmatic knowledge sources, including the informationseeker's inferred task-related plan, his inferred beliefs,his anticipated iscourse goals, and focusing strategies.However, we do not contend that a natural languagesystem should use only pragmatic knowledge; a robustsystem will need to coordinate syntactic, semantic, andpragmatic techniques in order to fully understand thewide variety of elliptical utterances employed in humancommunication.Real understanding necessitates identifying thespeaker's discourse or communicative goal in utteringan elliptical fragment.
We claim that a speaker who usesan elliptical fragment is relying heavily on discourseexpectations and that such fragments are often used toaccomplish discourse goals that must be marked if acomplete sentence is used.
Our work is the first toaddress the problem of recognizing the discourse goalfulfilled by an elliptical utterance.
Our research showsthat an ellipsis interpretation strategy controlled bydiscourse xpectations and utilizing focusing heuristicsfacilitates recognition of the speaker's intent in utteringan intersentential elliptical fragment, including identifi-cation of his discourse goal.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSSome of this work was partially supported by a grant from theNational Science Foundation, IST-8311400, and a subcontract fromBolt Beranek and Newman Inc. of a grant from the National ScienceFoundation, IST-8419162Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989 95Sandra Carberry A Pragmatics-Based Approach to Ellipsis ResolutionI would like to thank Ralph Weischedel for his encouragement andsuggestions and Lance Ramshaw for many helpful discussions.
I alsoappreciate the comments and suggestions of Kathy McCoy, AlanPope, Ralph Weischedel, and the anonymous reviewers on drafts ofthis paper.REFERENCESAllen, James F. and Perrault, C. Raymond 1980 .Analyzing Intentionin Utterances.
Artificial Intelligence 15:143-178.Appelt, Douglas E. 1985 Planning English Refe.rring Expressions.Artificial Intelligence 26(1): 1-33.Austin, J. L. 1962 How To Do Things With Words.
Harvard Univer-sity Press, Cambridge, MA.Carberry, Sandra 1983 Tracking User Goals in an Information-Seeking Environment.
In: Proceedings of The National Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence, Washington, DC: 59-63.Carberry, Sandra 1985 Pragmatic Modeling in Information SystemInterfaces.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Delaware, Newark, DE.Carberry, Sandra 1988 Modeling the User's Plans and Goals.
Com-putational Linguistics Journal 14(3):23-27.Carbonell, Jaime G. 1983 Discourse Pragmatics and Ellipsis Resolu-tion in Task-Oriented Natural Language Interfaces.
In: Proceed-ings of the 21st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, Boston, MA: 164-168.Fikes, R. E. and Nilsson, N. J.
1971 STRIPS: A New Approach to theApplication of Theorem Proving to Problem Solving.
ArtificialIntelligence 2: 189-208.Finin, Tim and Drager, David 1986 GUMS: A General User ModelingSystem.
In: Proceedings of the Sixth Canadian Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Montreal, Canada: 24-30.Flowers, M. and Dyer, M. E. 1984 Really Arguing with your Com-puter.
Proceedings of the National Computer Conference; 653-659.Goodman, Bradley A.
1986 Reference Identification and ReferenceIdentification Failures.
Computational Linguistics; 273-305.Grice, H. Paul 1957 Meaning.
Philosophical Review 56: 377-388.Grice, H. Paul 1969 Utterer's Meaning and Intentions.
PhilosophicalReview 68: 147-177.Grice, H. Paul 1975 Logic and Conversation.
In: Cole, P. and Morgan,J.
L.
(eds.
), Syntax and Semantics II1: Speech Acts, AcademicPress, New York City, NY: 41-58.Grimes, J. E. 1975 The Thread of Discourse.
Mouton.Grosz, Barbara J.
1977 The Representation a d Use of Focus in aSystem for Understanding Dialogs.
In: Proceedings of the Inter-national Joint Conference on Artifical Intelligence, Cambridge,MA: 67-76.Grosz, Barbara J.
1979 Utterance and Objective: Issues in NaturalLanguage Processing.
In: Proceedings of the International JointConference on Artificial Intelligence, Tokyo, Japan: 1067-1076.Grosz, Barbara and Sidner, Candace 1986 Attention, Intention, andthe Structure of Discourse.
Computational Linguistics, 12(3):175-204.Hendrix, Gary G.; Scerdoti, Earl D.; Sagalowicz, Daniel; andSlocum, Jonathan 1978 Developinng a Natural Language Interfaceto Complex Data.
ACM Transactions on Database Systems 3(2):105-147.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1979 Coherence and Coreference.
Cognitive Science3: 67-90.Kass, Robert and Finin, Tim 1987 Rules for the Implicit Acquisition ofKnowledge About the User.
In: Proceedings of the Sixth NationalConference on Artificial Intelligence, Seattle, WA: 295-300.Labov, W. and Fanshel, D. 1977 Therapeutic Discourse: Psychother-apy as Conversation.
Academic Press, New York City, NY.Litman, Diane J.
1986.
Understanding Plan Ellipsis.
In: Proceedingsof the Fifth National Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Phila-delphia, PA: 619--624.96Litman, Diane and Allen, James 1987 A Plan Recognition Model forSubdialogues in Conversation.
Cognitive Science 11:163-200.Mann, William; Morre, James; and Levin, James 1977 A Comprehen-sion Model for Human Dialog.
In: Proceedings of the FifthInternational Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Cam-bridge, MA: 77-87.McKeown, Kathleen R. 1985 Text Generation.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge, England.Perrault, R. and Allen, J.
1980 A Plan-Based Analysis of IndirectSpeech Acts.
American Journal of Computational Linguistics,167-182.Pollack, M.; Hirschberg, J. ; and Webber, B.
1982 User Participationin the Reasoning Processes of Expert Systems.
In: Proceedings ofthe Second National Conference on Artificial Intelligence,(AAAL) Pittsburgh, PA: 358-361.Ramshaw, Lance 1989 A Metaplan Model for Problem-Solving Dis-course.
In: Proceedings of the Fourth Conference of the EuropeanChapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics,Manchester, England.Reichman, Rachel 1978 Conversational Coherency.
Cognitive Sci-ence 2:283-327.Reichman, Rachel 1984 Extended Person-Machine Interface.
Artifi-cial Intelligence 22:157-218.Robinson, Ann 1981 Determining Verb Phrase Referents in Dialogs.American Journal of Computational Linguistics; 1-18.Sacks, H.; Schegloff, E. A.; and Jefferson, G. 1974 A SimplestSystematics for the Organization of Turntaking for Conversation.Language 50: 696--735.Sidner, Candace L. 1981 Focusing for Interpretation of Pronouns.American Journal of Computational Linguistics; 217-231.Sidner, Candace L. 1983 What the Speaker Means: The Recognitionof Speakers' Plans in Discourse\] Computers and MathematicsWith Applications 9(1):71-82.Sidner, Candace L. 1985 Plan Parsing for Intended Response Recog-nition in Discourse.
Computational Intelligence; 1-10.Thompson, Bozena H. 1980 Linguistic Analysis of Natural LanguageCommunication with Computers.
In: Proceedings of the 8thInternational Conference on Computational Linguistics, Tokyo,Japan: 190-201.Waltz, David.
1978.
An English Language Question Answering Sys-tem for a Large Relational Data base.
Communications of theAssociation for Computing Machinery 21(7):526-539.Weischedel, Ralph and Sondheimer, Norman K. 1982 An ImprovedHeuristic for Ellipsis Processing.
In: Proceedings of the 20thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,Toronto, Ontario, Canada: 85-88.NOTES1.
Taken from Flowers and Dyer (1984).2.
A speech act is an action performed with an utterance, such as theacts of informing and making a promise, although other require-ments may need to be met for the action to be successfullyexecuted (Austin 1962).3.
Thanks to Ralph Weischedel for this example.4.
These transcripts were provided by the Department of ComputerScience of the University of Pennsylvania.5.
These rules capture the behavior exhibited in the dialogs westudied.
However, we have no experiments o indicate whetherthe model is psychologically valid.6.
Note that --1 Believe(IS, --7 P)4-~ Believe(IS,P)7.
This is similar to Grosz's focus spaces and the notion of an objectbeing in implicit focus.8.
Some stack processing rules that were not discussed in Section7.2 would influence the discourse stack but not affect how theelliptical fragments in the examples are understood.
They havebeen omitted to keep the presentation short and to focus attentionon the important aspects of the ellipsis processing strategy.Computational Linguistics, Volume 15, Number 2, June 1989
