A COMPUTATIONAL GRAMMAR OF DISCOURSE-NEUTRAL PROSODICPHRASING IN ENGLISHJ.
Bachenko  and E. F i tzpat r ickAT & T Bell LaboratoriesMurray Hill, NJ 07974We describe an experimental text-to-speech system that uses information about syntactic constituency,adjacency to a verb, and constituent length to determine prosodic phrasing for synthetic speech.
A centralgoal of our work has been to characterize "discourse neutral" phrasing, i.e.
sentence-level phrasing patternsthat are independent of discourse semantics.
Our account builds on Bachenko et al (1986), but differs in itstreatment of clausal structure and predicate-argument relations.
Results so far indicate that the currentsystem performs well when measured against a corpus of judgments of prosodic phrasing.1 INTRODUCTIONIn previous work (Bachenko et al 1986), we described anexperimental text-to-speech system that determined pro-sodic phrasing for the Olive-Liberman synthesizer (Oliveand Liberman 1985).
The system generated phrase bound-aries using information derived from the syntactic struc-ture of a sentence.
While we saw significant improvementsin the resulting synthesized speech, we also observed prob-lems with the system.
Often these stemmed from ourassumptions that both clausal structure and predicate-argument relations were important in determining prosodicphrasing.
This paper reconsiders those assumptions anddescribes an analysis of phrasing that we believe correctsmany of the problems of the earlier version.
Like the earlierversion, it has been implemented in a text-to-speech systemthat uses a natural language parser and prosody rules togenerate information about the location and relativestrength of prosodic phrase boundaries.Our current analysis rests on two ideas.
First, it ispossible to describe a level of prosodic phrasing that isindependent ofdiscourse semantics.
Second, this discourse-neutral phrasing depends on a mix of syntactic and nonsyn-tactic factors; chiefly, syntactic onstituency, left-to-rightword order, and constituent length.
There is no necessary fitbetween syntactic structure and phrasing, since prosodicphrasing may ignore major syntactic boundaries in order tosatisfy the constraints on phrase length.
Our approach thusfollows that of Grosjean et al (1979), namely, that phras-ing reflects " .
.
.
two (sometimes conflicting) demands onthe speaker: the need to respect he linguistic structure ofthe sentence and the need to balance the length of theconstituents in the output" (p. 75).Section 2 will outline our analysis, focusing on the rela-tionship between syntactic and prosodic structure.
Theanalysis is developed within the framework of generativegrammar, but we believe it is consistent with other ap-proaches to syntactic description.
1 Our main point will bethat the syntax plays a necessary but not sufficient role indetermining phrasing, its effects being filtered by separateconditions on prosodic well-formedness (e.g.
length).
Sec-tion 3 describes the implementation of our analysis in anexperimental text-to-speech system, and Section 4 summa-rizes our main conclusions.
Unless otherwise noted, thecorpus we used as a source of observations on phrasing inhuman speech consisted of a taped professional dramatiza-tion of the Sherlock Holmes story The Speckled Band anda documentary about Mount Everest that includes bothprofessional "prepared" narration and the spontaneousspeech of interviews.
The Holmes story involved two malespeakers and one female speaker; the Everest documentaryinvolved a male narrator and several male interviewees.Both of us independently transcribed the tapes according toour perceptions ofprosodic phrasing.
Other examples comefrom transcriptions of speech that we recorded at BellLaboratories.
In the transcriptions, we both distinguishedthree types of prosodic event: a primary phrase boundary, asecondary phrase boundary, and the absence of a boundary.The most salient characteristic of the primary phrase bound-ary was a pause, while that of the secondary boundaryinvolved a change in pitch.
In comparing the two transcrip-tions, we discarded cases in which there was a discrepancybetween the two markings, which left us with a corpus ofapproximately 500 sentences against which the prosodicphrasing rules were tested.Computational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990 155J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in English2 AN ANALYSIS OF PHRASING2.1 BACKGROUND: THE FACTORS THATCONTRIBUTE TO PROSODIC PHRASING2.1.1 SYNTAX AND PROSODIC PHRASINGWhat is the exact contribution of syntax to sound?
Thereare well-known local syntactic phenomena that affect bothphonetic segment quality and the stress pattern of thephrase.
A difference in syntactic ategory affects phoneticquality in examples 1-3 below:1. a.
They live in Canada.
(live = verb)b.
He ate live lobster.
(live = adjective)2. a.
Can you estimate the damage?
(estimate = verb)b.
Give us an estimate.
(estimate = noun)3. a.
As the water grew colder, their hands grew number.
(number = adjective)b.
Do you have his phone number?
(number = noun)The type of object that a verb takes correlates with thepronunciation of the verb in 4 and 5:4.
He resided in Holland.
(reside pronounced \[rizaid\])5.
He resided the house with aluminum.
(reside pro-nounced \[risaid\])Syntactic ategory information also influences word pros-ody, as in 6 and 7, where knowledge of category member-ship is necessary to determine the correct stress pattern.6.
a.
Both content and style are important.
(content = noun)b.
They are content o remain here.
(content = adjective)7. a.
This ticket is invalid.
(invalid = adjective)b.
He is an invalid.
(invalid = noun)Syntactic category may also affect phrasal stress.
Forexample, the sequence power units has stress on units in theverb-noun sequence in 8, but it has stress on power in thenoun-noun sequence in 9:8.
If house current fails, power units from battery.9.
The power units failed.Finally, syntactic gaps affect segment quality.
For exam-ple, the vowel in the preposition to is normally weak, as in10.
But if a gap like the one that is associated with thequestion word who in 11 follows the preposition, the vowelof to is strong.10 We spoke to John.
(to pronounced/t~/)11. Who did you speak to?
(to pronounced/tu/)When it comes to sentence-level prosody, especially phras-ing, it is often true, as we will see below, that a sequence ofwords dominated by the same syntactic node cohere moreclosely than a sequence of words dominated by two dif-ferent nodes.
This observation has led some researchers,e.g., Cooper and Paccia-Cooper (1980), to claim a directmapping between the syntactic phrase and the prosodicphra,;e. However, this claim is controversial because of themisa'dgnments that occur between the two levels of phras-ing.
For example, in considering the connection betweensyntax and phrasing, the linguistic literature most oftenrefers to examples of embedded sentences.
Sentences like12, from Chomsky (1965), are frequently cited.
(Squarebrackets mark off the NP constituents hat contain embed-ded sentences.)12.
This is \[uP the cat that caught \[NP the rat that stole \[NPthe cheese\]\]\]In such cases, the syntactic onstituency indicated by brack-eting is not in alignment with the prosodic phrasing.
In-stead, 12 has the prosodic phrasing in 13a.
The phrasing in13b, which most closely matches constituency, is strange atbest.
(In these and other examples, the most prominentprosodic boundaries are marked by vertical bars.)13.
a.
This is the cat II that caught he rat 1\[ that stole thecheese,b.
?
?This is II the cat that caught II the rat that stole \[\[the cheese.To account for such mismatches, "readjustment rules" thatchange constituent structure by adjoining each embeddedsente, nce to the node dominating it have been posited.
Theresult is a flattened structure that more accurately reflectsthe prosodic phrasing.
In Chomsky and Halle (1968), thisflattening process is not part of the grammar.
Rather, it isviewed as " .
.
.
a performance factor, related to the diffi-culty of producing right branching structures such as \[ 12\]"(p. 372).
Thus phrasing, in their approach, is only indi-rectly related to syntax, since readjustment is done byspecial rules outside the grammar proper.Langendoen (1975) proposes readjustment rules similarto those of Chomsky and Halle, but he claims that thereadjustment of structure is part of the grammar, not partof the performance model.
He thus makes explicit what isoften a tacit assumption i  both the linguistic and psycho-linguistic literature2--that there is a direct connectionbetween syntactic onstituency and prosodic phrasing, withapparent misalignments readjusted before syntax inter-face,; with prosodic phonology.Langendoen's proposal works well for sentences such as12 because it predicts that important prosodic phrase bound-aries will coincide with sentence boundaries.
But this doesnot always fit the prosodic facts--sentences that lack overtcomplementizers or relative pronouns often resist he inser-tion of a break to set them off.
For example, when appliedto They believe California sales are still off  75 percent,readjustment rules cause the embedded sentence to be setoff prosodically, as in 14a.
This seems quite unnaturalcompared with 14b (an observed example), where a bound-ary has been inserted not before the sentence, but after theembedded subject.156 Compur, ational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in English14 a.
?
?They believe \]\[ California sales are still off 75%.b.
They believe California sales I\[ are still off 75%.Similarly, flattening the relative clause it saw in It wasready to bite the first person it saw has the questionableeffect of inserting a prosodic phrase boundary before therelative clause, as in 15a.
But in our data, this sentenceactually has the phrasing in 15b, where the relative clauseis not set off.
(The relative clause in these examples isitalicized.)15.
a.
?
?It was ready to bite the first person I\] it saw.b.
It was ready to bite \[I the first person it saw.Moreover, there are certain distinctions among clause types,for example the difference between restrictive and apposi-tive relatives, that are captured only by the presence orabsence of a separate prosodic phrase for the clause.
How-ever, Langendoen's claim that embedded clauses are flat-tened would nullify this difference.
The flattening andconsequent setting off of restrictive relatives would rendersentences such as 16a unintelligible because the associatedappositive reading forces a contradiction between whocame from Plymouth and who came from Falmouth.
Webelieve the only intelligible version of this sentence is 16b,where there has been no readjustment of the come fromclauses.16.
a.
?
?The pilgrims \]\[ who came from Plymouth 1\] were alusty bunch 1\] while the pilgrims \[\] who came fromFalmouth II were not.b.
The pilgrims who came from Plymouth 1\] were alusty bunch I\[ while the pilgrims who came from Fal-mouth II were not.In sum, the contribution of syntax to sound is borne outby several phenomena.
Even at the level of prosodic phras-ing, syntactic onstituents often cohere.
Where misalign-ments between the syntactic and the prosodic phrasingoccur, however, the notion of readjusting the syntax to fitthe prosody is problematic and, we believe, compares unfa-vorably with an approach that views the semantic andphonological components a contributing to prosodic phraseboundary determination.2.1.2 SEMANTICS AND PROSODIC PHRASINGThe syntax/prosody misalignment may be viewed as result-ing in part from semantic onsiderations.
Both predicate-argument relations and discourse factors have been exam-ined for their possible input to prosodic phrasing.Crystal (1969) claims that prosodic phrase boundarieswill co-occur with grammatical functions uch as subject,predicate, modifier, and adjunct.
Selkirk (1984) and Ne-spor and Vogel (1986) take a similar approach, but withina different heoretical framework.
Previous versions of ourwork, as described in Bachenko et al (1986) also assumethat phrasing is dependent on predicate-argument struc-ture.
The problem here is that the phrasing in observeddata often ignores the argument status of constituents.
In17a-f, for example, the phrasing makes no distinctionbetween arguments and adjuncts.
All of the sentences havethe same X(VY) pattern even though Y is a complement inthe first case (thefirst serious attempt) and an adjunct inthe others.
(The complement in 17a and the adjuncts in17b-f are italicized.)17.
a.
A British expedition II launched the first seriousattempt.b.
A single bright light \[I shone out from the darkness.c.
There were several little changes I\] carried out aboutthat time.d.
Were there any gypsies II camping in the planta-tion .
.
.
.e .
.
.
.
like the claws of a crab I\] thrown out on each side.f.
Two years II have passed since then.The relation between discourse and prosodic phrasinghas been examined in some detail by Bing (1985), whoargues that each noun phrase in an utterance constitutes aseparate prosodic phrase unless it is destressed because ofreference to previous discourse.
Bing also observes thatconstituents that refer to items newly introduced into adiscourse tend to be longer.
This may be the reason thatword count and syllable count play a prominent role inprosodic phrasing (see Section 2.1.3.).
To our knowledge,no work has explicitly explored the relation between thelength of a constituent and its status in the discourse.Hirschberg and Litman (1987) and Litman and Hirsch-berg (1990) also examine the relation between discourseand prosodic phrasing.
Their work succeeds in distinguish-ing the use of items like now, so, and well as discourse cuesfrom their denotative l xical use on the basis of a complexcombination of pitch accent ype and phrasing.The Hirschberg and Litman studies identify a specificdiscourse distinction that relates to phrasing.
These studiesare not intended to give a picture of the extent o whichdiscourse relates to phrasing.
On the other hand, Bing'swork gives a broader picture of the relation between dis-course and phrasing, but it deals only with noun phrases.Thus both of these efforts leave open the question as towhether discourse features completely determine prosodicphrasing or are a complement to some more basic set ofdeterminants, syntactic and/or phonological.
In other words,when prosodic features that reflect facts of the discourseare removed, is there a residual, neutral phrasing?Our work on the prosodic phrase status of clause finalprepositional phrases, which we discuss below, suggests theexistence of a discourse-neutral phrasing that depends onsyntactic onstituency mediated by string adjacency andlength of a potential prosodic phrase.
3 Such phrasing pro-vides us with a typical phrasing pattern analogous to thetypical phrasal stress patterns examined in Liberman andPrince (1977), which "are often overwhelmed by the chiar-oscuro of highlight and background in discourse, but retainthe status of null-hypothesis patterns that emerge whenComputational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990 157J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in Englishthere is no good reason to take some other option" (p. 251).This approach to prosodic phrase boundary determinationbrings us closer to a framework in which phonological,syntactic, and discourse features all contribute to prosodicphrasing.The possibility of a discourse-neutral prosodic phrasingis also of import o the prosodic quality of synthetic speech,since it allows us to "get by" without a complete descriptionof the discourse features of a given text, many of whichhave yet to be characterized.
Interestingly, in the data weexamined we found only 14 percent of the phrases to bediscourse-determined.The identification ofa preferred phrasing that is indepen-dent of discourse also aids us in identifying and characteriz-ing the discourse features that impinge on prosodic phras-ing.
Several well-known discourse phenomena---coreference,contrast, and parallelism--affected the phrasing of theclause final prepositional phrases in our corpus.
We are leftwith three or four unexplained cases that are suggestive of adiscourse xplanation.2.1.3 PHONOLOGICAL LENGTH ANDPROSODIC PHRASINGThe psycholinguistic studies of Martin (1970), Allen (1975),Hitlinger et al (1976), Grosjean et al (1979), Dommer-gues and Grosjean (1983), and Gee and Grosjean (1983),responding to the idea of readjusted syntax as the source ofprosodic phrasing, show that grammatical structure, evenif readjusted, is not in itself a reliable predictor of prosodicphrasing: mismatches between syntax and prosody occuroften and systematically, and can be related to specificnonsyntactic factors such as length and word frequency.For example, although prosodic boundaries between sub-ject and verb do occur, there also exist prosodic patterns inwhich the boundary comes between the verb and object,i.e., the data reveal both X(VY) and (XV)Y  groupings.Grosjean et al (1979) claims that such mismatches are duefor the most part to constituent length, which interacts withgrammatical structure and, in some cases, overrides it.Thus syntactic and prosodic structure match when themajor constituents of a sentence are roughly equal inlength; for example, the main prosodic phrase break corre-sponds to the subject-predicate boundary in Waiters whoremember well \]\[ serve orders correctly.
Discrepancies inlength throw constituents off balance, and so prosodicphrasing will cross constituent boundaries in order to givethe phrases similar lengths; this is the case in Chickenswere eating I\[ the remaining green vegetables, wherethe subject-predicate boundary finds no prosodiccorrespondent.
4The most explicit version of this approach is the analysispresented in Gee and Grosjean (1983) (henceforth G&G).Drawing on the psycholinguistic studies mentioned aboveand on aspects of the grammar of prosody outlined inSelkirk (1984), G&G propose an algorithm for mappingsyntactic structure onto a hierarchical representation ofphrasing; the rules they present accomplish this by integrat-ing syntactic information (e.g.
constituent s ructure, left-to-right o:rdering) with information about constituent length.We have found that their rules, which are described indetail, provide a productive model for investigations ofphrasing, and in what follows we shall frequently refer totheir analysis.
But, as we will show, G&G fall short ofproviding a comprehensive theory.
Their rules are toolimited and their syntax too underspecified to achievemoderate coverage for an unrestricted collection of sen-tences or to provide an adequate description for imple-mentation.
52.2 CURRENT ANALYSISOur goal has been to develop a theory of syntax/prosodyrelations that we could test in an experimental text-to-speech system.
We approached the problem with the as-sumption that there is a level of prosodic phrase determina-tion that does not include discourse factors, and that aimingfor this level would yield an appropriate phrasing for asentence.
Both the output of the system and our prelimi-nary findings, which show that discourse factors influencejust a small part of the phrasings that follow a verb,indicate that this approach is feasible.The analysis that we arrived at takes G&G and, to someextent, Selkirk (1984) as its starting point.
Hence we areassuming that there is no necessary match between syntac-tic structure and prosodic phrasing.
Prosody rules refer tosyntactic structure, but they are not obliged to preserve it;independent principles of prosodic well-formedness, in par-ticular length calculations, may create entirely differentstructures that appear at odds with the syntax.
Here weshall describe the main features of our analysis and then goon to a description of the implementation.Our prosody rules are intended to account for two as-pect,; of phrasing: boundary location and boundary sa-lience.
In 18, for example, the rules need to stipulate that aphrase boundary comes between the subject and predicate.18.
The light among the trees \]1 was extinguished.But when there is more than one important phrase bound-ary ir~ a sentence, the rules will also specify a relativesalience, or perceptibility, for each boundary.
Thus in theobserved sentence 19, where an adjunct has been prefixedto the sentence, the boundary between subject and predi-cate diminishes in deference to the stronger boundarybetween adjunct and core sentence.
A single vertical barmarks the diminished boundary.19.
About nine o'clock \]l the light among the trees I wasextinguished.After deciding which boundaries will be diminished andwhich highlighted, the rules assign each boundary an acous-tic value that reflects its relative strength.
Our current158 Comimtational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in Englishsystem uses three values made available by the synthesizer.A pause and its concomitant prosodic effects mark thestrongest boundaries, a pitch change signifies intermediateboundaries, and the weakest boundaries are assigned aphrase accent.Our work so far has focused solely on the issues oflocation and relative salience; the rules for associating thedifferent boundaries with specific intonation contours andacoustic values are still quite rudimentary.
Consequentlyour discussion will center on the location and salience rules,and we will mention the third rule class only in passing.2.2.1 BOUNDARY LOCATION RULESThe location rules identify possible boundary sites by firstderiving phonological words from the lexical items in aparse tree, and then grouping the phonological words intolarger phonological phrases.
The boundaries that separatephonological phrases are the candidates for prosodic phraseboundaries, ince the prosodic phrases of speech consist ofone or more phonological phrases.Our rules for phonological word formation are adopted,for the most part, from G&G, Grosjean and Gee (1987),and the account of monosyllabic destressing in Selkirk(1984).
Thus in our analysis, rules of phonological wordformation apply to the non-null terminal nodes in a syntaxtree.
If the terminal is a content word, i.e.
noun, verb,adjective, or adverb, then this terminal may have the statusof a phonological word on its own.
Otherwise the wordcombines with one or more orthographically distinct wordsto form a single phonological word that has no internalword or phrase boundaries.
This is accomplished by adjoin-ing a word to its left or right neighbor depending on itslexical category and its position in the tree.
Function words,e.g.
auxiliary verbs, articles, prepositions, pronouns, andconjunctions, are all eligible for adjunction in certain syn-tactic contexts.
Content words, copular verbs, demonstra-tives, quantifiers and elements in the complementizer nodecan serve as hosts for the adjoined material or stand alone.Figure 1 illustrates the effects of phonological wordformation; the "+"  indicates that adjunction has takenplace.Article adjunction, for example, attaches a, an, and theto a following word, so that a sudden and the trees in Figure1 each becomes a single phonological word in which thearticle acts as an unstressed syllable.
The rule of preposi-tion adjunction, which has applied twice in Figure 1, at-taches a preposition to the material on its right only if it isthe head of a PP, otherwise the preposition attaches left-ward.
Thus in 20a, where the preposition is a syntactichead, in + the + dimly forms a single phonological wordafter article and preposition adjunction.
The phrase bound-ary in this case will precede the preposition.
But in 20b,where there is no PP (rather, the preposition is a sister ofthe verb in the syntax tree), f i l led + in is a phonologicalword.
Hence the boundary will follow the preposition.We+sawsV NP V ppAdj NIa+sudden lightFigure 1 Phonological Word Formation.among+the+lrees20.
a. Holmes waited I in + the + dimly lit room.b .
.
.
.
and filled + in I a few of the gaps.
6Rules of phonological phrase formation now build thenext level of prosodic constituents.
7 Each phonologicalphrase consists of a syntactic head and the material thatintervenes between it and a preceding head (usually, thepre-head modifiers, e.g.
pre-nominal adjectives, pre-verbaladverbs).
Following Selkirk (1984), we have limited theeligible head categories to noun, verb, adjective, and adverb(although adjectives and adverbs do not count if theydirectly precede and modify another head).
Examples 21 a-billustrate the results of phonological phrase formation.
Ineach case, the phonological phrase is created by a left-to-right process that collects material up to and including thehead of a syntactic onstituent.
Every phonological phraseboundary thus marks a syntactic head as well as the site ofa possible prosodic boundary in speech.
(The sequenceswith + are words formed by adjunction; I stands for aphonological phrase boundary.)21.
a.
A + British expedition I launched I the + firstserious attempt.b.
We + saw I a + sudden light r spring + up I among+ the + trees.Which boundaries become the prominent ones is deter-mined by the salience rules described below.The elements of phonological phrases cohere strongly inspeech--they cannot be separated into smaller phraseswithout a dramatic effect on the semantic ontent of thesentence.
In 22a, for instance, the italicized phrase must betreated as a minimal element with respect o phrasing; theComputational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990 159J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in Englishphrasing of 22b, where an important break comes beforethe syntactic head, is rare in our data.22.
a. I shall never forget I that April morning.b.
?
?I shall never forget hat I April morning.Example 23a, with a phonological phrase boundary beforethe preposition of  follows the pattern that is found innearly all of our data.
The observed pattern in 23b, wherethe boundary follows the of  creates a noticeably theatricaleffect with emphatic stress on strange.23.
a.
He's a collector I of  strange animals.b.
He's a collector of I strange animals.2.2.2 BOUNDARY SALIENCE RULESThe rules for salience apply to a combination of phonologi-cal phrases and syntactic constituents.
Their input is astructure like that in Figure 2, where syntactic onstituentsmay contain one or more phonological phrases.
The NP inFigure 2 consists of a single phonological phrase, and thetop-level PP contains two.
The absence of VP in this figurewill be explained below.When they apply, the salience rules merge phonologicalphrases to create larger prosodic phrases, which are alsomerged into a final phrase hierarchy.
Boundaries betweenthe phrases are thus diminished or emphasized, finallygiving the impression of a balanced, rhythmic patternSentenceV-phph N-phph PP / \we+locked our+doors N-phph PPfor+fear N-phphof+the+cheetahWe locked our doors for fear of the cheetahFigure 2 Input to Salience Rules(phph = phonological phrase).whose components appear to be equal in length.
The sa-lience rules apply on the basis of (i) adjacency to a verb, (ii)length, and (iii) constituent type.All three factors interact in the initial balancing ofmaterial around a verb.
In this process, the verb groups tothe left to form a (XV)Y  pattern or it groups to the right toproduce a X(VY)  pattern.
Our analysis generally followsG&G, who propose the following rule, where, in theirformulation, X is a prosodic onstituent or null, Visa verb,Yis a nonsentential complement, and C refers to phonolog-ical word count.24.
Verb Balancing Rulein \ [x  v Y\]i:f c(x )  + c (v )  < c ( r )~:hen \ [ (XV)Y\]otherwise \[X( VY)  \]The rule works through a sentence from left to right.
It saysthat if combining the verb with the constituent to its leftyields a word count less than that of the complement, theverb fi~rms a prosodic phrase with its left neighbor.
Conse-quently, the phrase boundary following the verb is strength-ened.
For all other cases, the verb groups to the right so thatthe boundary preceding the verb becomes reinforced (G&G442).
In 24, X and Y contain prosodic onstituents, eitherphonological phrases or prosodic phrases formed by othersalience rules (e.g.
the constituent rules that build NP andPP into separate prosodic phrases; see G &G, p. 441).
Wordcount (C) is determined solely by the number of phonologi-cal words.
8Example 25a gives the phonological phrasing (indicatedby I) for This little incident gives a new zest to ourinvestigation.
Applied to this string, the verb rule willgroup the verb to the right and derive the X(VY)  patternsince This little incident plus gives adds up to four words,while a new zest is only two words; the to-phrase is notadjacent o the verb and so is not considered by the rule.The final phrasing is given in 25b, where the verb ruleaccounts for the break after the subject, and length rulesthat are discussed below account for the second boundary.25.
a.
This little incident I gives I a + new zest I to + our+ investigation.b.
This little incident \]\[ gives a + new zest I to + our +investigation.Similarly in 26, Holmes' eyes traveled adds up to three, butthe post-verb conjoined phrase round and round only countsfor two.
Hence the verb groups to the right.26.
Holmes' eyes 1\] traveled round and + round.The sentences in 27 follow the (XV)Yoption.
In 27, as +the + lamp plus was + lit add up to two words versus thethree words in + one of  + the + sitting rooms.
In 27b,Chickens plus were + eating also add up to two words, the+ remaining reen vegetables adds up to three.
In 27c, and+ his + eyes plus were + f ixed adds up to two words, whilein + a + dreadful rigid stare adds up to three.160 Computational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in English27.
a. as + the + lamp was + lit \[I in + one of + the +sitting rooms.. .b.
Chickens were + eating II the + remaining reenvegetables.c.
and + his + eyes were + fixed I\[ in + a + dreadfulrigid stare.In their formulation of the verb rule, G&G impose twoconditions on its application.
First, the rule may examineonly arguments of the verb, i.e., complements are candi-dates for Yin 24, but modifiers and adjuncts are not.
Hencethe rule must have access to VP constituency since verbcomplements, in the generative grammar framework as-sumed by G&G, are represented assisters of V in VP, whilemodifiers and adjuncts are outside of the VP.
Second, therule cannot cross S boundaries--embedded clauses formseparate prosodic units in G&G's  analysis.Our studies indicate that these conditions are too strong:balancing around a verb often crosses both VP and Sboundaries in our taped data.
For example, in 28a-b, wherethe verb and its complement occur in a single prosodicphrase, the phrasing may appear to be influenced by thepresence of a VP (the complement is italicized.).28.
a.
A + British expedition II launched the + firstserious attempt.b.
The + 48 channel module II can + have only twodi-groups.Yet the verb also forms a single prosodic phrase withsentence adjuncts.
This is the case in 29a-c, where the verband adjunct are separated by an important boundary in thesyntax (VP), but not in the prosody.
In these sentences,while a secondary break may set off the adjunct, the mainprosodic phrase boundary comes before a verb + adjunctsequence (the adjunct is italicized).29. a.
Seven of + our + porters II were + killed in + the +fallb.
a + crack \[\] opened in + the + snow.c.
the + elements of + personal interest \[\[ must + be+ introduced at + all costsIf the verb-balancing rule is restricted to subcategorizedcomplements of the verb, as G&G assume, then the phras-ing in 29a-c has no explanation since, with the restriction,the main boundary in these sentences has to come betweenthe verb and adjunct, a prediction that contradicts theobserved pattern and sounds strange at best.
Sentencessuch as those in 29a-c suggest that Yin the verb rule of 24should not be limited to material within VP but shouldinclude anything to the right of V. Hence we are assumingthat the key to phrasing in 28a-b, 29a-c is the adjacencyrelationship between a verb and the constituent on its right,not verb phrase structure, or, equivalently, the complementversus noncomplement status of a constituent.
In particu-lar, phrasing around the verb depends on the relative lengthof constitutents hat are adjacent o a verb and, as we willobserve, the presence of specific verb-adjacent items (e.g.phrasal and).The phrasing of embedded sentences follows a similarcourse.
Prominent phrase boundaries often co-occur withclause boundaries, e.g.
Customers are asking retailers I\[whether their watermelons come from California, but webelieve that this is only apparently due to clausal constitu-ency.
In our data, components of S can form a prosodicphrase with nearly any adjacent material, regardless ofwhere the S boundary falls.
For example, 30 a-c has themost prominent break before the matrix verb, not beforethe embedded S (which is italicized).
The sentences of 31have the most prominent prosodic break within the embed-ded sentence.30.
a.
Even my + fiance 11 believes it's only my + imagina-tion.b.
Did + Dr. Roylott 1\] continue to + practice?c.
A + terrible change \[1 began to + come + over our+ stepfather.31.
a.
They + believe California sales \[\] are + still off 75percent.b.
I've + heard that + the + crocuses II promise verywell.c.
Experience has + proved that + savages II are the +tyrants of  + the + female sex.d.
I + seem to + see dimly 1\] what you're driving at.Here again it appears that G&G's  formulation of verbbalancing, which prohibits the rule from crossing sentenceboundaries, is too strict.
Requiring the prosody rules topreserve the constituent status of embedded clauses pre-dicts that when the verb is followed by an embedded clause,as in 30a-c and 31a-d, balancing is superceded by rulesthat work on the internal structure of the embedded S; theresult in most cases is a prominent prosodic boundarybefore the embedded clause.
According to this approach,the sentence Did Dr. Roylott continue to practice?
wouldhave the odd phrasing Did Dr. Roylott continue \]\[ topractice?
instead of the observed phrasing of 30b.The phrasing patterns of 30a-c and 31a-d are easy toexplain if we assume that prosody rules ignore clausalconstituency so that verb balancing applies across S bound-aries.
Evidence from sentence adjuncts, e.g.
the purposivein We went out to the Himalaya to cl imb.., and therelative clause in It was ready to bite II the first person Itsaw leads us to believe that prosody rules ignore theseclausal constituents as well.
Our analysis thus adopts thebasic mechanism G&G propose with their verb rule, butwithout the conditions on verb complements and clausalconstituency.
While NP, PP, and AdjP constituents"count"in our prosody rules, VP and S constituents do not.Consequently, eligible material to the right of V in the verbrule 24 may be a complement, a modifier, an adjunct, or theinitial constituent of an embedded sentence.
The exacttreatment of the left-adjacent constituent is still a topic forinvestigation, and there is currently no requirement thatthe material to the left of a verb be a subject.G&G intend the balancing rule to make the verb aprosodic enter by grouping constituents in such a way as toComputational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990 161J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in Englishcreate, in most cases, two phrases of approximately equallength, with the verb as a left or right edge.
Duringsubsequent processing, this balancing effect is usually lostsince neither length nor adjacency to a verb play anyfurther role in G&G's analysis.
After verb balancing, theremaining constituents are bundled from left to right into aleft-branching binary tree like that in Figure 3.
As we willdiscuss below, the higher the constituent is in the prosodytree, the more prominent will be the boundaries that set itoff in speech.
Hence, when constituents are bundled, as inFigure 3, material that comes at the end of a sentence willusually be set off by the largest breaks.
This is whathappens in 32a-b, where a strong boundary before the final(italicized) constituent seems desirable.32.
a .
.
.
.
walk away from your helper \[\[ approximately 50feet.b.
I suddenly heard in the silence of the night II thatsame low whistle.But the application of bundling immediately after theverb rule often leads to problems.
The salience of a bound-ary that occurs toward the end of a sentence tends to beoverestimated when the final constituent is relatively short.When this happens, the final constituent may be set offunnaturally from the rest of the sentence.
In 33a-c, forexample, a strong boundary before the italicized constitu-ent is inappropriate.
933. a.
?
?The speaker pronounced the names of the charac-ters II on the left.b.
?
?We locked our door for fear II of the cheetah.c.
?
?She had caught an early morning train \[I fromLondon.We believe that the problems raised by final bundlingcan be avoided largely by extending the effects of lengthand verb adjacency beyond the verb balancing rule.
In ouranalysis, this is accomplished by an adjacency rule and twoSI gave the book to John for ChristmasFigure 3 Final Bundling (adapted from G&G,p.
443).lengtlh rules that, in effect, sustain verb centering anddetermine the prosodic weight of constituents not adjacentto a verb.
The adjacency rule in 34 applies after thebalancing rule of 24 and groups the "unclaimed" verb-adjac, ent constituent with the phrase that was formed by 24(this will be either (VY) or (XV)).
X in 34a and Yin 34bare prosodic onstituents.34.
Verb Adjacency Rulea.
\[ .
.
.
X (VY) .
.
.\] --; \ [ .
.
.
(X (VY) ) .
.
.
\ ]b.
\ [ .
.
.
(XV)Y. .
.
\ ] - -~ \ [ .
.
.
( (XV)Y) .
.
.1where .
.
,  is a phonological phrase or nulland X may or may not be a subject.Case 34a says that if (VY)  is a prosodic onstituent, hencreate a new prosodic onstituent composed of (VY)  andadjacent material to the left.
Likewise 34b creates a newprosodic constituent by combining (XV) with adjacentmaterial on the right.
What results is a prosodic verbphase--a cluster of two prosodic phrases with the verb inthe middle as a left or right edge.
In 35a-b, for example,constituents abutting the verb have been worked into asingle prosodic verb phrase by (i) the verb balancing rule,which groups the verb rightward with the complement(giving.. .
X(VY) .
.
. )
,  and (ii) the adjacency rule in 34b,which generates a larger phrase containing the constituenton the left ( .
.
.
.
(X(XY)).
.
.)
.
The prosodic verb phrase isitalicized; its internal boundary is marked by a singlevertical bar.35.
a. Everest I is an + enormous pyramid I\[ with + threewide faces and + three ridges.b.
Mrs. Welles I wrote a + weekly sports column II for+ the + Christian Science Monitor.Constituents that are not adjacent o the verb form theperiphery of a prosodic verb phrase.
In 35a, the peripheryconsists of with three wide faces and and three ridges; in35b it consists of for the Christian Science Monitor.
Whileour understanding of phrasing of the periphery of a sen-tence is far from satisfactory, we have been conducting astudy that so far suggests that, at least with respect oclaw;e-final prepositional phrases, length of a peripheralconstituent is an important determinant of its prosodicprominence.
The phrases considered all occur to the rightof tile verb with some material intervening between theverb and a prepositional phrase, PP.
The intervening mate-rial varies from a full phrase to a single word that functionsas a syntactic head to which the PP under consideration is acomplement.
In a test of 129 clause-final prepositionalphrases, we noted the pattern shown in Figure 4.
The clearbifurcation of the numbers in this test suggests that lengthof the PP is determining the degree to which final PPs areset off'.
Many of the 18 apparent counterexamples to thisclaim also indicate that length establishes a discourse-neutral phrasing for sentence-final PPs that is contravenedonly by predictable syntactic and discourse factors.
Forexample, the of-PP in the partitive construction of 36a isnot in a separate prosodic phrase, even though it contains162 Computational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990PP=I stress foot PP>I stress footPause precedes 6 63No perceptibleprosodic eventprecedesFigure 4 Phrasing of final PPs) ?48 12she+had+caught an+early morning train from+London two stress feet (west and wing).
This contrasts with 36b,where the of-PP is not a partitive.36.
a .
.
.
.
blue smoke I curling + up from + the +chimneys \[\[ showed that part of + the + west wing.. .b.
A + single bright light II shone + out from + the +darkness \]l of + the + west wing.Similarly, while the italicized PP in 37a follows the ruleof being greater than one phonological word and thereforeset off, a similar PP in 37b is not set off because therepetition of room causes this item to be destressed andconsequently tomerge with the relevant PP.37.
a. Holmes passed at + once \[\] into + the + room \[\[ in+ which Helen Stoner II was now sleeping.b.
so + that I've + had to + move out + of + my +own room \[I into + the + room next door 1\[ the + roomin + which my + sister died.In the implementation, the length rules extend theseresults to include post-verb peripheral constituents otherthan PPs; specifically, interjections and adverbials.
Cur-rently, the length rules perform two operations on post-verbperipheral material, depending on word count.
In one case,if a phrase, P1, consists of a single phonological word, it isadjoined to the most recently created phrase, PO (usually aprosodic verb phrase).
The result is a new phrase, P2,whose boundary salience is equal to that of PO.
This isillustrated in Figure 5, where i is a number representingsalience (Section 3 shows how salience indices are derived).In the second case, a longer phrase, P1, will be bundledwith its preceding material, PO, in order to form a newphrase, P2, whose salience is the sum of salience value forPO and the value of P1 (=word count + 1).
In Figure 6, forexample, the 'long' PP is set off by a relatively large index.Peripheral material at the beginning of a sentence iscurrently picked up by left-to-right bundling without re-gard to constituent type or length.
The correct reatment ofsentence-initial peripheral material remains a topic of inves-tigation.2.2.3 A PROSODIC LEFT CORNER CONSTRAINTIn some cases, phrasing is influenced by the lexical contentof a constituent.
Phrasal and, i.e.
the left corner of a NP,PP, AdjP, or AdvP conjunct, always starts a new phrase, asin Next to it II he placed a box of  matches I\[and a candle.
11J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in EnglishShe had caught an early morning train from LondonFigure 5 Adjunction of Short Peripheral Phrase(i ---- boundary salience).In our analysis, this fact is captured by a global constrainton the prosody rules: no boundary location or salience rulemay apply to a constituent whose left corner is a phrasalconjunct.
Hence when phrasal and is adjacent to a verb, theprosodic left corner constraint will block the rules that formprosodic verb phrases.
In 38 the verb rule is prevented frommerging was extinguished with and all, as it would do ifand were treated as any other function word.38.
The light among the trees was extinguished and all wasdark.Although the constraint should probably include othermaterial, such as the subordinate conjunctions (e.g.
be-cause, while, although), our current analysis acknowledgesonly phrasal and, or, and nor, requiring that they alwaysintroduce a separate phrase.
In our implementation f theEverest is an+enormous pyramid with+three wide facesEverest isan enormous pyramid with three wide facesFigure 6 Long Prepositional Phrase Attachment(i = boundary salience).Computational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990 163J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in Englishprosody rules, we have extended the constraint to punctua-tion.
For example, the comma in After Robert ate, his catFreddy took a nap is first adjoined to the constituent on itsright, to give After Robert ate,  + his cat Freddy took anap, and then, like phrasal and, obligatorily starts a newphrase, preventing the prosody rules from merging ate andhis cat.2.2.4 SUMMARYIn this section, we have described an analysis of prosodicphrasing that incorporates two classes of rules.
Boundarylocation rules form phonological words from the terminalelements of syntactic structure and build phonologicalphrases (the first tier of prosodic onstituency), using infor-mation about syntactic heads.
Boundary salience rulesassign a relative strength, or perceptibility, toeach phraseboundary according to syntactic labeling, length, and adja-cency; they ignore verb phrase and clausal constituencyand predicate-argument relations.
The primary saliencerules are, in order, syntactic onstituency, which convertsNP, PP, and AdjP constituents into prosodic phrases (seeG&G, p. 441); verb balancing and verb adjacency, whichderive prosodic verb phrases; length rules, which apply tothe material on the right of a prosodic verb phrase; and finalbundling, which collects phrases built up by the previousrules into a binary tree (see Figure 3).
Location andsalience rules are both subject o a left corner constraint ontheir application.
In the following section, we discuss howthe rules work in an experimental text-to-speech system.3 AN EXPERIMENTAL TEXT-TO-SPEECHSYSTEMWe have built an experimental text-to-speech system thatuses our analysis of prosody to generate phrase boundariesfor the Olive-Liberman synthesizer (Olive and Liberman1985).
Two concerns motivated our implementation.
First,we hoped the system would provide us with a research toolfor testing our ideas about syntax and phrasing against alarge unrestricted collection of sentences.
Second, we wishedto investigate how well our approach would work for deter-mining prosodic phrasing in a text-to-speech synthesizer.Existing text-to-speech systems perform well on word pro-nunciation and short sentences, 12but when it comes to longsentences and paragraphs, ynthetic speech tends to bedifficult to listen to and understand.
Many investigators(e.g.
Allen 1976; Elowitz et al 1976; Luce et al 1983;Cahn 1988) have suggested that the poor prosody of syn-thetic speech, in comparison with natural speech, is theprimary factor leading to difficulties in the comprehensionof fluent synthetic speech.
And while researchers in text-to-speech synthesis have adopted a variety of approaches toprosodic phrase generation--from the simple punctuation-based rules and function word listings of existing commer-cial systems to the sophisticated prosodic heuristics de-scribed in Emorine and Martin (1988) and O'Shaughnessy(1989)---the generation ofappropriate prosodic phrasing inunres~tricted xt has remained a problem.As we will show, our results so far indicate that ourexperimental system, which assigns a discourse neutralprosoclic phrasing on the level of sentences, provides asignificant improvement i  the quality of synthesized speech.We believe that one reason for the improvement has to dowith the increased pitch range that our system uses.
Text-to-speech systems that lack sentence-level phrasing musttake a conservative approach to pitch settings in order toavoid misleading and inappropriate pitch modulations.
Cor-rect phrase identification makes it possible to adopt anexpanded pitch range that greatly enhances the naturalnessof the final speech.
In constructing the system, we focusedon two core questions: (i) what kind of parser is needed forthe p:rosody rules?
and (ii) how should prosodic phrasing,i.e.
boundary location and strength, be represented?3.1 PARSING FOR PROSODYThe rules for discourse-neutral phrasing that we proposeneed examine only a subset of the syntactic informationthat most parsers provide.
That is, the rules require accessto lexical category, syntactic heads, NP/PP/AdjP/AdvPconstituency, and left-to-right word order, but not to clausalconstituency, predicate-argument r lations, or modifier at-tachrnent.
We believe the rules must also recognize thetrace of wh-movement (e.g.
the trace that precedes thephrase break in The slope on which we were standing\[trace)' started to move), although other null terminalssuch as the trace of passivization are ignored.
13 At theoutset of our project, we had available to us a moderatecove:rage deterministic parser--Fidditchla--that weadapted to the syntactic requirements for prosodic phras-ing.
This modified "speech parser" produces parse treeslike that in Figure 7.
The tree represents syntactic nforma-tion necessary for phrasing, but omits nodes (S, VP) andS jJSNP V NP NP NP AUX VING pp pp/\ / \ / \PRO told PRO ADJ N PRO was cominghe me last night hep NP p NP/ \to PNP for DET NILondon several daysHe told me last night he was coming to London for several days.Figure 7 Syntactic Input to Phrasing Rules.164 Compultational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in Englishbranches that are unnecessary for prosodic phrase determi-nation.3.2 PROSODIC PHRASE REPRESENTATIONFollowing G&G, we require that the prosody rules build abinary tree whose terminals are phonological words andwhose node labels are indices that mark boundary salience.An alternative r presentation based on Liberman and Prince(1977) is presented in Selkirk (1984), which contends thatprosody, including prosodic phrasing, is more properlyrepresented asa grid instead of a tree.
Although a grid maybe more descriptively suitable for some aspects of prosody(for example, Sproat and Liberman (1987) use the gridrepresentation for their implementation f stress assign-ment in compound nominals), we are not aware of anyevidence for or against a grid representation f discourse-neutral phrasing.Figure 8 shows the phonological phrase tree that is builtfrom the syntactic structure of Figure 7.
The rules forbuilding this tree apply from left to right, following theanalysis we described in the preceding section.
Figures9-11 show the prosodic phrase derivation.
Numbered nodesrefer to salience values, with higher numbers indicatinggreater salience.
The index is assigned according to phono-logical word count, with one point added for the node itself.Figure 11 is the final prosodic phrase tree; in the notationwe have been using, the phrasing represented by Figure 11is He told me I last night I\[ he was coming to London II forseveral days.Figure 9 shows the effect of two applications of verbbalancing.
Applying from left to right, the rule first looks atthe phonological verb he + told + me.
Since the materialto the left of the verb is null, the rule must group this verbwith the constituent on its right to form the node labeled ?.On its second application, the rule balances the prosodicphrase it has just formed against he single phonologicalShphV-phph PP-phphV-phph NP-phph for+several daysto+London he+was+cominghe+told+me last nightFigure 9 Two Applications of Verb Balancing.word to + London, and groups the verb rightward to formnode ?.Verb adjacency is now triggered by the contiguity of ?and the verb he + was + coming.
In Figure 10, this rulehas formed the prosodic verb phrase ?.It remains to collect the "long" peripheral constituentfo r  + several days.
In Figure 11, the length rule has builtthe final node of the tree; because the peripheral itemconsists of two phonological words, the value of the topnodeis affected by the word count of the peripheral item.
If theperipheral item had consisted of a single phonologicalword, the value of the top node would have been 8 instead ofl l .Finally, each node index is converted into one of threeacoustic values.
High indices are marked as a minor phraseboundary; mid-range indices are signified with a downstepon the first phonological word following the boundarySV-phph NP he+was+coming PP-phph PP-phphhe+told+me N-phph / \Adj nightlastqto+London for+several d ysFigure 8 Phonological Phrasing.V-phph NP-phph V-phph PP-phphhe+told+me last night he+was+coming to+LondonSPP-phphfor+several d ysFigure 10 Verb Adjacency.Computational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990 165J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in EnglishV-phphIhe+mid+mePP-phphfor+several d ysNP-phph V-phph PP-phphIlast night he+was+coming to+LondonFigure 11 Length Rule--Long Phrase (final rule).
(Pierrehumbert 1980), and those in the lowest range re-ceive a phrase accent.
The mapping onto three differentvalues reflects a simple subjective choice.
A more completeanalysis would consider finer acoustic "tunings" for theindices.3.3 EVALUATING THE PHRASING SYSTEMIn testing a prosodic phrase system, it is necessary to beclear about the goals of the work.
At the level of basicinquiry, such a system should aim to correlate well withhuman speech production, assuming that we are able toabstract away from speaker variability.
However, in work-ing under the assumption that discourse plays a role,however limited, in prosodic phrase determination, thecomparison of synthetic to human phrasing becomes lessmeaningful since factors unknown to our system influencethe placement of phrase boundaries.At the level of system building, a prosodic phrasingsystem should aim to make a text-to-speech system easierto understand.
In general, adding phrasing to a text-to-speech system will enhance synthetic speech both by break-ing a run-on delivery into more easily processed chunks ofspeech and by allowing the pitch range to be increased,enhancing naturalness.
The primary requirement for mak-ing synthetic speech easier to understand, however, is thatthe phrasing system should first do no harm, i.e., it shouldavoid misleading phrasings and phrasings like 38 that aredifficult for a listener to process.38.
?
?This is 11 the cat that caught II the rat that stole \[I thecheese.To address the issue of avoiding undesirable phrasings, asystem like ours must be run against a set of utterances ofdisparate l ngths and syntactic types to see where it breaks.To do this, we accumulated a set of syntactically varied testsentences, had them read by two speakers, marked theprosodic phrase boundaries as we had done with the Holmesand Everest data, and ran the sentences through our pro-sodic phrase system for comparison with the human speak-ers' phrasing.
Phrasing in the speech of the two humanspeakers was almost identical; where the speakers failed tomatch, we depended on the speaker with the more detailedphrasing to obtain a single transcript for comparison.
Thesentences with the phrase markings produced by the system(S) and by the human speakers (H) are given in AppendixA.
In addition, we used the sentences of Grosjean et al(1979) to test our system; these were the same sentencesused by G&G.
They were produced by six subjects peak-ing each sentence at five different speaking rates.
We chosethese data both because they form an established, thoughsmall, ,corpus and because their phrase markings, derivedby oscillographic tracings of pause duration, provide acheck: against he possibility of error in human judgmentsof pause location and salience.
A comparison of these datawith the output of our system is given in Appendix B.In comparing human and synthetic prosodic phrasingwith an eye on synthetic phrasings that are either mislead-ing or unprocessable, errors in the assignment of primaryphrase boundaries are the most egregious.
In the data inAppendix A, the human speakers produced 31 intrasenten-tial primary phrase boundaries, of which our systemmatched 16 with its equivalent of a primary phrase bound-ary.
'Yhe other primary phrase boundaries in the humanproductions were matched in 9 cases with a secondaryphra,;e boundary, and in 5 cases with a tertiary boundary.The system thus missed 1 primary boundary, the one afterbooks in 17.
In the absence of research on the relativesignificance of different boundary types, we are assumingthat, with respect to the comprehensability and acceptabil-ity of ,synthetic speech, the difference between a primaryand ,;econdary phrase boundary is minimal.
On the otherhand, the tertiary boundary produced by our system isalmost imperceptible and cannot be considered equivalentto the primary boundary.
The system thus matched, eitherexactly or approximately, 80% of the primary boundaries.In looking at the primary phrase boundaries that thesystem failed to duplicate, we want to be sure that we avoiddifficult phrasings like that of 38 rather than match anyparticular phrasing exactly.
In sentences 9, 12, 17, and 21,where our system produced a tertiary boundary at thelocation of the human speakers' primary phrase boundary,comprehensibility has not been diminished.
The listener ismisled only in sentence 17, where our system generated aboundary at a location different from that of the humanspeakers.
In the system's phrasing of 17, the boundarybefore books corresponds to an interpretation f the utter-ance in which the books are written by her uncle, which,while it is a possible phrasing, presumes a specific discoursesetting.A comparison of the secondary phrase boundaries inAppendix A shows similar correspondences.
The humanspeakers produced 26 secondary phrase boundaries.
The166 Computational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in Englishsystem matched 11 exactly and 12 with a primary ortertiary boundary.
It thus failed to match 3 secondaryboundaries, in sentences 9, 18, and 20, but only in sentence18 is the absence of the boundary misleading.To sum up, there are 2 boundaries out of the 57 producedby the human speakers whose absence in the system'soutput is truly problematic.
Evaluation of the prosodicphrase system, however, must also consider cases of overgen-eration.
It is significant here that in the 21 sentences ofAppendix A, the system never generated a primary phraseboundary that did not correspond to a boundary in thehuman productions, although the system overgeneratedsecondary phrase boundaries at 7 locations.
(We ignore theovergeneration f tertiary boundaries as perceptually insig-nificant.)
Three of these secondary boundaries are problem-atic.
Those in sentences 17 and 18 were discussed above asresulting from the misplacement of a boundary.
The otherunwanted secondary boundary occurs after was in sentence10 and results in an utterance that, like 38, is difficult toprocess.A comparison of our system's output with G&G's produc-tions, given in Appendix B, shows similar results.
Of the 14primary phrase boundaries in G&G's sentences, the systemmatched 12 exactly.
There were 2 primary boundaries,however, that the system missed completely.
Both of theseerrors were due to the presence of a sentential subject.
Forsentence 6, no parse was produced, but otherwise theinability of our system to generate the correct result herestems from the fact that the system discards the syntacticsentence node in the derivation of the prosodic phrasing.
15With respect o overgeneration f phrase boundaries, thesystem overgenerated seriously only once, in sentence 4,where the subject is sentential.We find these results encouraging; with respect to match-ing, there were only four significant problems in the twocorpora, and overgeneration f a primary boundary oc-curred only once.
The suitability of our system for speechapplications will depend on future tests to determine whetherlisteners prefer "prosodized speech" that is imperfect, i.e.,speech that will have some phrasing errors, to the relatively"flat" speech of systems that lack our phrasing rules.
Theweak link in our current system is the parser: most prob-lems with phrasing arise from parsing errors; in particular,incorrect part of speech assignment, incorrect analysis ofpre-head modifiers, and failure to recognize idiomatic orsemi-idiomatic expressions.
Problems with the prosody rulescome mainly from phenomena that we have not adequatelystudied, e.g.
the proper treatment of material on the leftperiphery of a prosodic verb phrase and the status ofcomplements tonouns and adjectives.4 CONCLUSIONSWe have discussed the notion of discourse neutral prosodicphrasing in English and presented an analysis that charac-terizes this phrasing in terms of constituency, adjacency,and length.
In our analysis, the contribution of syntax todiscourse-neutral phrasing consists of lexical categoriza-tion; NP, PP, and AdjP constituency; and syntactic headidentification.
Length is an independent phonological fac-tor.
Because they refer to both syntactic and phonologicalinformation, phrasing rules are free to generate prosodicstructures that may or may not resemble syntactic struc-tures.
Hence, in speech, it is possible but not expected thatphrase boundaries will co-occur with major syntactic bound-aries.Our results suggest that, in an implemented system, theparsing requirements for speech systems are quite differentfrom those for systems providing information retrieval,machine translation, or text generation.
In particular, thereseems to be no need for a parser to identify VP and Sconstituents, nor to specify predicate-argument relations.The distribution of the phrasing of clause-final PPs givenin Figure 4 may indicate the extent of the relation betweenthe discourse neutral phrasing and the phrasing imposed bydiscourse.
We assume that discourse phrasing may shiftneutral boundaries in order to reflect, for example, empha-sis, contrast, parallelism, coreference, and the particularstructure of the discourse.
The exact connection betweenthe level of phrasing we describe and discourse-dependentphrasing is a question for future research.
We need to knowwhat aspects of the discourse are relevant for phrasing, aswell as how the discourse information and the phrasingspecifications should be related.
For example, it is not clearwhether the discourse-neutral phrasing represents a set ofpre-determined values that are reset when necessary bydiscourse features or whether this is a true default situationin which the discourse neutral phrasing is inserted whendiscourse phrasing is underspecified.
Any contribution inthis area will greatly enhance our understanding of therelation between the various components of the grammar--syntactic, semantic, and phonological.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe are grateful to Francois Grosjean and Terry Langendoen for theircomments on an earlier version of this paper, and to Jack Lacy for hisinvaluable assistance with the implementation and testing of the system.Special thanks go to two anonymous Computational Linguistics reviewerswhose comments have greatly helped us improve the original manuscript.None of those mentioned is responsible for any shortcomings of the workdescribed here.REFERENCESAllen, G. 1975 Speech Rhythm: Its Relation to Performance Universalsand Articulatory Timing.
Journal of Phonetics 3: 75-86.Allen, J.
1976 Synthesis ofSpeech from Unrestricted Text.
Proceedingsof the IEEE 4: 433442.Bachenko, J.; Hindle, D.; and Fitzpatrick, E. 1983 Constraining a Deter-ministic Parser.
Proceedings ofthe National Conference on ArtificialIntelligence (AAAI-83).Bachenko, J.; Fitzpatrick, E.; and Wright, C. E. 1986 The Contribution fParsing to Prosodic Phrasing in an Experimental Text-to-Speech Sys-tem.
Proceedings of the 24th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, 145-153.Computational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990 167J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in EnglishBierwisch, M. 1966 Regeln fur die Intonation deutscher Satze.
In: Bier-wisch, M.
(ed.
), Studia Grammatica VII."
Untersuchungen uber Akzentund Intonation im Deutschen.
Akademie-Verlag, Berlin: 99-201.Bing, J.
1985 Aspects of Prosody.
Garland Press, New York, New York.Cahn, J.
1988 From Sad to Glad: Emotional Computer Voices.
Proceed-ings of Speech Tech "88: 35-36.Chomsky, N. 1965 Aspects of the Theory of Syntax.
MIT Press, Cam-bridge, MA.Chomsky, N. and Halle, M. 1968 The Sound Pattern of English.
Harper& Row, New York, New York.Church, K. 1988 A Stochastic Parts Program and Noun Phrase Parser forUnrestricted Text.
Proceedings of the Second Conference on AppliedNatural Language Processing (ACL): 136-143.Cooper, W. E. 1976 Syntactic Control of Timing in Speech Production: AStudy of Complement Clauses.
Journal of Phonetics 4:151-171.Cooper, W. and Paccia-Cooper, J.
1980 Syntax and Speech.
HarvardUniversity Press, Cambridge, MA.Crystal, D. 1969 Prosodic Systems and Intonation i  English.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, U.K.Dommergues, J.-Y.
and Grosjean, F. 1981 Performance Structures in theRecall of Sentences.
Memory and Cognition 9: 478-486.Downing, B.
1970 Syntactic Structure and Phonological Phrasing inEnglish.
Ph.D. Dissertation, University of Texas, Austin, TX.Elovitz, H.; Johnson, R.; McHugh, A.; and Shore, J. E. 1976 Letter-to-Sound Rules for Automatic Translation of English Text to Phonetics.IEEE Transactions on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing 6:446-459.Emorine, O. M. and Martin, P. M. 1988 The Multivoc Text-to-SpeechSystem.
Proceedings of the Second Conference on Applied NaturalLanguage Processing (,4 CL): 115-120.Fitzpatrick, E. 1989 The Preferred Prosodic Phrasing of PrepositionalPhrases.
Unpublished ata.Fitzpatrick, E. and Bachenko, J.
1989 Parsing for Prosody: What aText-to-Speech System Needs from Syntax.
Proceedings of IEEEArtificial Intelligence Systems inGovernment (AISIG) "89.Gee, J. P. and Grosjean, F. 1983 Performance Structures: A Psycholinguis-tic and Linguistic Appraisal.
Cognitive Psychology 15:411-458.Grosjean, F. and Gee, J. P. 1987 Prosodic Structure and Spoken WordRecognition.
Cognition 25:135-155.Grosjean, F.; Grosjean, L.; and Lane, H. 1979 The Patterns of Silence:Performance Structures in Sentence Production.
Cognitive Psychology11: 58-81.Hillinger, M.; James, C. T.; Zell, D. L.; and Prato, L. M. 1976 TheInfluence of Prescriptive and Subjective Phrase Markers on RetrievalLatencies.
Bulletin of the Psychonomic Society 8: 353-355.Hindle, D. 1983 User Manual for Fidditch, a Deterministic Parser.
NRLTechnical Memorandum #7590-142.Hirschberg, J. and Litman, D. 1987 Now Let's Talk About Now: Identify-ing Cue Phrases Intonationally.
Proceedings ofthe 25th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 163-171Klatt, D. H. 1987 Review of Text-to-Speech Conversion for English.Journal of the Acoustic Society of America 82: 737-793.Klatt, D. H. 1975 Vowel Lengthening Is Syntactically Determined inConnected Discourse.
Journal of Phonetics 3: 129-140.Koster, Jan. 1978 Why Subject Ss Don't Exist.
In: Keyser, Samuel J.Recent Transformational Studies in European Languages.
LinguisticInquiry Monograph 3.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Langendoen, D. T. 1975 Finite-State Parsing of Phrase-Structure Lan-guages and the Status of Readjustment Rules in Grammar.
LinguisticInquiry 6: 533-554.Litman, D. and Hirschberg, J.
1990.
Disambiguating Cue Phrases in Textand Speech.
Proceedings of the 13th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING).Liberman, M. Y. and Prince, A.
1977 On Stress and Linguistic Rhythm.Linguistic Inquiry 8: 249-336.Luce, P. A.; Feustel, T. C.; and Pisoni, D. B.
1983 Capacity Demands inShort-Term Memory for Synthetic and Natural Speech.
Human Fac-tors 25: 17-32.Martin, E. 1970 Toward an Analysis of Subjective Phrase Structure.Psychological Bulletin 74:153-166.Nespor., M. and Vogel, I.
1986 Prosodic Phonology.
Foris Publications,Dordrecht, The Netherlands.Olive, J. P. and Liberman, M. Y.
1985 Text-to-Speech--An Overview.Journal of the Acoustic Society of America, Supplement 1:78, $6.O'Shaughnessy, D. D. 1989 Parsing with a Small Dictionary for Applica-tions s~:ch as Text-to-Speech.
Computational Linguistics 15: 97-108.Pierrehurnbert, J.
B.
1980 The Phonetics and Phonology of EnglishIntonation.
Ph.D. Dissertation, MIT, Cambridge, MA.Selkirk, E. O.
1984 Phonology and Syntax: The Relation between Soundand Structure.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Sproat, R. W. and Liberman, M. Y.
1987 Toward Treating EnglishNominals Correctly.
Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, 140-146.Streeter, L. A.
1978 Acoustic Determinants of Boundary Perception.Journal of the Acoustical Society of America 64:1582-1592.APPENDIX AHuman: (H)  and system (S) product ions of syntact ical lyvar ied ,.sentences.
P r imary  boundar ies are marked  by "\[l",secondary by " I  ", tert iary by "!"
.1.
H: The name \[ o f  the character \[I is not pronounced.S: The name !
o f  the character I is not pronounced.2.
H: The left-hand power unit !
on each shel f  I in thefi~rty-eight channel module II operates !
the echo cancel-lers.S: The left-hand power unit I on each shel f  I in theforty-eight channel module IIoperates I the echo can-cellers.3.
H: Phoneme characters II give more control 11 over theparticular sounds tt that are generated.S,: Phoneme characters I give !
more control \[ over theparticular sounds I\] that are generated.4.
H: The connection must be determined Ilfor the left-hand power unit II on each shel fS: The connection !
must be determined I for  theleft-hand power unit II on each she l f5.
H: I need a man II to f ix  the sink.S: I need a man i to f ix  !
the sink.6.
H: The techniques I that we had implemented \]1 weretested I on a larger computer.S: The techniques I that we had implemented II weretested I on a larger !
computer.7.
H: Everyone lwho  had participated l in the attempt I1was considerably affected.S: Everyone I who had participated !
in the attempt IIwas considerably affected.8.
H: The method I by which one converts a word I intophonemes \]1 is provided I in chapter seven.S: The method I by which one converts !
a word i intophonemes II is provided !
in chapter seven.9.
|-I: In these instances II it may be desirable i to usephonemic haracters 11 each time I that it appears IIonthe input text.S: In these \[ instances I it may be !
desirable 1\[ to use !phonemic haracters II each time that it appears !
onthe input text.168 Computational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in English10.
H: The thrust I was now f rom the south It whichMallory had deemed impossible.S: The thrust I was I now !
f rom the south \[I whichMallory I had deemed !
impossible.11.
H: The destruction I o f  the good name I o f  his father IIbothered him.S: The destruction I o f  the good name !
o f  his father IIbothered him.12.
H: Every event I o f  that dreadful time II is seared IIintomy memory.S: Every !
event I o f  that !
dreadful time \[I is seared !into my memory.13.
H: Everest was discovered II during a survey of  India IIin 1852.S: Everest was discovered II during a survey !
of  India \[in 1852.14.
H: He told the director II to give the names I o f  thecharacters II to Ivan.S: He told !
the director II to give I the names !
of  thecharacters l to  Ivan.15.
H: It may be impossible II to give that machine II theproper workout.S: It may be !
impossible II to give that machine I theproper workout.16.
H: Eventually I he will realize II that his cigars arebothering II the other passengers.S: Eventually II he will realize !
that his cigars I arebothering !
the other passengers.17.
H: She was given \[ more difficult books II by her uncle.S: She was given !
more difficult I books by her uncle.18.
H: You could easily I break that vase II i f  you aren'tcareful.S: You could easily break I that !
vase II i f  you aren'tcareful.19.
H: The president I asked the group II what they werecapable I o f  doing.S: The president I asked !
the group II what they were Icapable !o f  doing.20.
H: What book I on the subject \[\[ would you recommendI to the group?S: What book !
on the subject IIwould you recommendto the group?21.
H: I can usually read I a lot faster II than Roger.S: I can usually read I a lot faster !
than Roger.APPENDIX BTest sentences used by G&G with their prosodic markingconverted to our notation.
S represents our system's produc-tions, G&G represents he human productions.1.
S: When the new lawyer I called up !
Reynolds II theplan !
was discussed !
thoroughly.G&G: When the new lawyer !
called up Reynolds IItheplan !
was discussed Ithoroughly.2.
S: In addition !
to his fi les II the lawyer !
brought I theoffice's best adding machine.G&G: In addition !
to his fi les \[I the lawyer brought Ithe office's !
best !
adding machine.3.
S: By making!
his plan I known II he brought out I theobjections !
of  everyone.G&G: By making !
his plan known II he brought out Ithe objections !o f  everyone.4.
S: That a solution II couldn't be found seemed P quiteclear II to them.G&G: That a solution !
couldn't be found II seemed !quite clear I to them.5.
S: Not quite all !
o f  the recent files II were examined Ithat !
day.G&G: Not quite !
all I o f  the recent !f i les II wereexamined !
that day.6.
S: Too many parse problemsG&G: That !
the matter !was dealt with r so fast II wasa shock !
to him.7.
S: John !
asked I the strange !
young !
man II to be !quick II on the task.G&G: John !
asked !
the strange young man II to bequick I on the task.8.
S: Closing !
his client's !
book II the young expert Iwondered !
about this !
extraordinary story.G&G: Closing his client's book II the young expert Iwondered about !
this !
extraordinary story.9.
S: Parse problems with wh trace in infinitival relatives;change wording slightly: The expert I who didn't know!
what to tell us II sat back !
in despair.G&G: The expert I who couldn't see !
what to criticizeII sat back !
in despair.10.
S: After the cold winter !
of  that year II most people Iwere !
totally fed up.G&G: After the cold winter I o f  that year II mostpeople !
were totally !fed up.11.
S: The agent I consulted !
the agency's book II in whichthey offered !numerous tours.G&G: The agent I consulted !
the agency's book II inwhich !
they offered numerous tours.12.
S: Parse problems with surprisingly and the main verb;change wording slightly: She discussed I the pros andcons II to overcome I surprisingly apprehensive f el-ings.G&G: She discussed !
the pros and cons II to get overher surprisingly r apprehensive !feelings.13.
S: Our disappointed woman I lost !
her optimism IIsince the prospects !
were too limited.G&G: Our disappointed woman I lost her !
optimism I1since the prospects !
were too limited.14.
S: Since she was !
indecisive !
that day II her fr iend Iasked her to wait.G&G: Since !
she was I indecisive I that day II herfr iend !
asked her to wait.NOTESBachenko et al (1983) outlines the main features of the syntacticframework we assume.
Any syntactic approach t at provides theComputational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990 169J.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick Discourse-Neutral Prosodic Phrasing in Englishlexical and constituent information discussed in Section 2 should besufficient for the phrasing analysis we presenl, but this idea remainsto be explored.2.
e.g.
Cooper (1976), Cooper and Paccia-Cooper (1980), Klatt (1975),and Streeter (1978).
Downing (1970), like Langendoen, explicitlyassumes a direct connection between syntax and prosodic phrasingwith "some aspects at least of surface structure .
.
.
determinedexclusively by the necessity of providing input to the phonologicalrules that specify prosodic features" (p. 204).3.
In characterizing this phrasing as discourse-neutral, weare assum-ing, contra Bing, that length is independent of discourse.4.
Both examples are from Martin (1970).
Bierwisch (1966) alsoincludes length, in terms of stressed syllable count, as a factor in theprosodic phrasing of German auxiliary + verb strings.
Length as afactor in prosodic phrasing is mentioned in Selkirk (1984) andNespor and Vogel (1986), but without any systematic account of itseffects.5.
G&G's test corpus consists of 14 sentences that were originally usedin Grosjean et al (1979).6.
A more accurate account of adjunction, such as that in Selkirk(1984), would limit the list of adjoinable words to those that haveboth a strong and a weak form.
For example, the word him in seehim may be realized as the strong form \[him\], where the vowelcarries stress, or it may take the weak unstressed form \[m.\].
Thisword is therefore a candidate for adjunction.
In contrast, a preposi-tion such as among has no weak form and would be nonadjoinable.Results that we discuss below support his approach.
Our currentsy,;tem, however, relies solely on lexical category and tree structureto identify adjunction possibilities.7.
These are essentially the phi phrases of G&G.8.
Below, in the discussion of constituent length, we will claim thatword count should actually be stressed syllable count.
In the currentsystem, however, length depends on phonological word count.9.
Problems with final phrase boundaries are discussed in more detailin Bachenko et al (1986), where the analysis presented assumes theversi.on of final bundling proposed in G &G. We return to this type ofexample below.10.
Prosodic events finer than the pause were marked but ignored forthis study.
A stress foot contains one stressed syllable and zero ormore unstressed syllables.
In our current implementation, length ismeasured by phonological word count, since stress foot informationis not readily available to us.11.
Cor~junctions of lexical items, e.g.
some subtle and horrible crime,these windows and shutters, are rarely split into two phrases.12.
Klatt (1987) presents a useful review of text-to-speech technologyand performance.13.
Fitzpatrick and Bachenko (1989) provide a more detailed iscussionof the differences between parsing for speech and parsing for textunderstanding.14.
Hindle (1983); lexical ookup and category disambiguation are doneby tlhe stochastic parser described in Church (1988).15.
We have as yet no account of pre-verbal embedded sentences,though an analysis that does not involve an embedded S node isavailable (Koster, 1978).170 Computational Linguistics Volume 16, Number 3, September 1990
