An Efficient Natural Language ProcessingSystem Specially Designed for theChinese LanguageLin-Shan Lee*National Taiwan UniversityLong-Ji Lin*National Taiwan UniversityK.-J.
Chen~Academia SinicaLee-Feng Chien*National Taiwan UniversityJames Huang~Cornell UniversityIn this paper an efficient natural anguage processing system specially designed for the Chineselanguage is presented.
The center of the present system is a bottom-up chart parser withhead-driven operation; i.e., phrases are built up by starting with their heads and adjoiningconstituents o the left or right of the heads instead of strictly from left to right.
In this waymany more unnecessary searching actions can be effectively eliminated.
The present system alsoincludes everal efficient approaches such as a direction-selective chart to simplify the control ofthe head-driven operation; aheuristic scheduling policy and a bidirectional look-ahead approachto eliminate many unnecessary searching actions, and an improved raise-bind mechanismcombined with check rules to treat the difficult problems of movement transformations andempty categories and to simplify the design of grammar ules.
The present design is based oncareful consideration of some special syntactic phenomena of the Chinese language, such ashead-final and head-initial structures and empty categories.
A prototype of the present systemhas been successfully implemented and extensive xperiments have been performed.
In the testresults significant improvement in the efficiency in processing many very complicated Chinesesentences has been observed.
The detailed discussion on the various approaches, the overallsystem design, and the experimental results will all be presented in this paper.1.
In t roduct ionThe use of computers to process natural anguages has been the research goal of manyscientists and engineers for many years, and significant improvement in technologiesin recent years has brought such goal closer to reality.
While substantial efforts havebeen made to process natural languages, especially several western languages uchas English, and many powerful computational models and algorithms have been pro-* Dept.
of Electrical Engineering and Dept.
of Computer Science and Information Engineering, NationalTaiwan University-~ Dept.
of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Taiwan University:~ Dept.
of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University?
Dept.
of Modern Linguistics, Cornell University, NJ?
Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei, TaiwanO 1991 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4posed and widely used (Gazdar et al 1987), very little work has been done withthe Chinese language, which more than a quarter of the world's population use asa native language.
This is probably due to the fact that the structure of the Chineselanguage is quite different from western languages like English and, therefore, theexperience in processing western languages cannot necessarily be directly applied tothe Chinese language.
Jiang (1985) proposed a preliminary Chinese parsing prototypesystem based on the METAL system, while Lin (1985) and Lin et al (1986a, 1986b) alsodeveloped a Chinese natural anguage processing system with special considerationson the phenomenon of empty categories in the Chinese language.
Yang (1987) pre-sented a method using semantic onstraints to reduce ambiguity in Chinese sentenceanalysis.
H. H. Chen et al (1988) proposed a logic programming approach consider-ing Chomsky's Goverment-Binding theory to cope with movement transformations inMandarin Chinese.In the following, some special syntactic phenomena of the Chinese language thatsignificantly affect the design of the present system are first summarized in Sections2 and 3, and a brief description of the present system and the structure of the lin-guistic knowledge base is then given in Section 4.
The several new approaches, in-cluding the direction-selective chart and the head-driven chart parser, the bidirectionallook-ahead approach, and the heuristic scheduling policy, are described in detail inSections 5, 6, and 7, respectively.
Sections 8 and 9 then present he improved designof the raise-bind mechanism to cope with the problem of movement transformationand empty categories.
Some preliminary experimental results are discussed in Sec-tion 10, and concluding remarks and future research directions are finally given inSection 11.2.
The Head-Final/Head-Initial Structures of the Chinese LanguageThe Chinese language has many special syntactic phenomena substantially differentfrom western languages.
Discussions about such characteristics of the Chinese lan-guage can be found in the literature (Chao 1968; Li and Thompson 1981; Huang 1982).In this paper only some of them that have significant influence on the present studywill be briefly described.
They are (1) head-final/head-initial structures and (2) emptycategories of the Chinese language, to be respectively summarized in this and thefollowing sections.The notion of the head of a phrase has a very long history, which stems from thetraditional grammar and plays a central role in recent syntactic analysis frameworkssuch as GB and GPSG (Sells 1985).
The basic idea is simply that each phrase con-tains a certain word that is especially important in the sense that it determines manyof the syntactic properties of the entire phrase; this word is called the head of thephrase.Most Chinese phrases and sentences are head-final, e.g., head nouns in NPs arealways located at the final position.
For instance, some NPs (examples 1, 2, and 3)listed in Figure 1 demonstrate his situation, where the underlines indicate the heads.Comparing these Chinese phrases with their corresponding phrases in English (shownbelow each Chinese phrase in parentheses), the positions of the heads in English aremore free.
On the other hand, other Chinese phrases that are not head-final are foundto be almost always head-initial, e.g., PPs (such as example 4 in Figure 1).
This issomewhat different from western languages like English.
Figure 2 is a list of somefundamental phrase structure rules (PSRs) for the Chinese language used in the presentsystem.
The underlines indicate the head of each PSR.
Some of the categories here arefrom Chao's classification (Chao 1968), and the rules here are primarily based on the348Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese Language1.2..4.playing (relativizer) children(the children who were playing)I the live in America (relativizer) good friend(the good friend of mine who lives in America)a (classifier) quite pretty girl(a quite pretty ig~)~ ( ~ ~, ~ )~ ~ ~ )pp ~he from your friends borrow money(he borrowed money (from your friends)pp )F igure 1Some examples of Chinese noun phrases and preposition phrases.
( l)  S = bar(2) S-bar(3) s(4) NP(5) XPDE(6) VP(7) V-bar(8) PPNotations:Operators:--> S-bar PRTAQ I S PRTAG--> Topic S--> (NP) VP--> (XPDE) (QP) (ADJ) N I(QP) (XPDE) (ADJ) N INPLOC--> S DE I NP DE IPPDE--> (AUX I ADV I PP I NP)* V-bar-->v QP I v (NP) (NP I PP I VP i S I S-bar)--> PREP NP\]: Or Operator, *:Repetition Operator, O: Optional Opera,or, : headPhrasal Categories:S=bar, S-bar, S, NP, XPDE: an Associative Phrase or a Relative/Appositive Clause,VP, V-bar, PP, Topic, QP: Classifier anti Measure Phrase.Lexical Ca~gories:PRTAG: Partical Tag, N, ADJ, ADV, AU'X, LOC: Localizer, DE ( ~ ) : RelativizerFigure 2A list of some fundamental PSRs for the Chinese language used in the present study.theory of Huang (Huang 1982).
Apparently, the head in each of the rules is locatedeither at the initial position (head-initial) or at the final position (head-final).
Suchhead-final/head-initial structures will be especially useful and helpful in the presentstudy, as will be clear later in this paper.349Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 43.
The Empty Categories of the Chinese LanguageIn many languages the "empty category" is typically used to refer to an empty NPposition that has been vacated by a transformation called "move c~" (a transformationaloperation introduced in government binding theory (GB) that means "move somethingsomewhere;" i.e., the NP has been moved to a different position such that an emptyposition is left).
Such empty categories are called "traces."
They indicate the emptypositions left when movements occur.
There is another kind of empty category that alsocontains vacant NP positions, but they are not traces, because they are not derived from"move ct." These empty categories are called "null pronominals."
Since the distancebetween the location of the actual NP and its corresponding empty category may belong and the grammatic relation in such sentences can be very complicated, it is usuallydifficult to represent such linguistic phenomenon i simple rules.
In other words, it isdifficult to list all such possible movements as well as null pronominals exhaustively,and to specify all the relevant constraints explicitly in the grammar.
Empty categories(or empty NPs) thus become a convenient approach usually used in linguistic theoriesto explain these very complicated syntactic phenomena.In Mandarin Chinese, passivization, relativization, topicalization, ba-transformationand the use of zero pronouns play major roles in Chinese sentence structures.
To dealwith these syntactic phenomena, the conventional pproach is to collect a set of com-plicated grammar ules to cover all the possibilities.
However, the high complexityespecially resulting from the interactions among several of these transformations makesuch an approach infeasible.
A completely different approach is, therefore, adopted inthis paper, in which a specially designed raise-bind mechanism is used based upon thetheory of empty categories, as will be clear later in this paper.
With such a raise-bindmechanism, it will be shown that the parser will treat all these transformations inrelatively simple ways.
In the following, some examples of empty categories often en-countered in the Chinese language are first discussed.
Consider the Chinese sentences(1)-(8) listed in the following.1.
~?
4T~ 7 ~he hurt (aspect marker) Jang-san 1(He hurt Jang-san)..ba-transformation:I Ihe ba Jang-san hurt (aspect marker)(He hurt Jang-san)passivization:J IJang-san by him hurt (aspect marker)(Jang-san was hurt by him)1 The transliteration scheme used here is based on the Mandarin Phonetic Symbols I published inTaipei, Taiwan by the Ministry of Education of the Republic of China.350Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese Language.
topicalization:I Ithat dog I never have seen(I have never seen that dog)5. relativization:e sA ~ ~ JJ,~I Iplaying (relativizer) children go(the children who were playing are gone)6. null pronominals:I_ IJang-san tried escape(Jang-san tried to escape)7. pivot construction:I Ihe asked children go to dinner(He asked the children to go to dinner)8. zero pronoun:~ ~ eJang-san likes(Jang-san likes someone or something)7(aspect marker)Sentences (2)-(8) all involve a missing subject or object (indicated by "e").
Thesolid lines under sentences (2)-(7) indicate the references that each missing subjector object refers to.
The missing object in sentence (8), however, does not refer to anyelement within the sentence.
In fact, it is an omitted pronoun, which refers to someoneor something understood in the situation.According to GB theory (Chomsky 1981; Huang 1982), sentence (2) is derived fromsentence (1) by a transformation called "ba-transformation."
The word "~ (ba)" is apatient case marker.
It indicates that the NP following it is the patient of the main verbin the sentence.
The transformation is performed as follows: the object, " ?
G (Jang-san)" in (1), is moved by the carrier " ~ (ba)" to the position indicated in (2), anda trace (indicated by "e") is left behind.
The trace dominates no lexical material, butis "bound" to its antecedent, " ~ G (Jang-san)."
This phenomenon appears very fre-quently in Chinese sentences.
Similar situations occur in sentences (3)-(5).
In sentence(3), it is believed in the theory that the object " ~ ~= (Jang-san)" is moved back to thesubject position and a trace is left behind to transform the sentence into a passive one.In sentence (4), the object " ~ Jt~ ~/ (that dog)" can be thought of as being moved tothe sentence initial position to form a topic.
This is also very often seen in Chinese sen-tences, and is called "topicalization."
In sentence (5), one explanation is that originallythe relative clause " /l~ ~ t,g ~ (the children were playing)" in the sentence-initial po-sition is used to modify the subject " d ~ ~ (children)," but the first " tl~ ~ (children)"is omitted due to repetition.
This is relativization.
All these sentences (2)-(5) involvea movement and a trace.
In the Chinese language, ba-transformation, passivization,topicalization, and relativization all can be analyzed using the movements and thetraces.
The basic idea is that these phenomena are very sophisticated syntactically, but351PART I PART HI the head-driven Chinese direction-selective chart parser withsentenc~ \] preprocessor charts ~ several efficientI approachesComputational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4Linguistic Knowledge-BaseFigure 3The block diagram of the system described in this paper.syntax treesas long as the empty NP can be inserted into the right position and the movementunderstood, the analysis of these phenomena will be significantly simplified, as willbe shown later in this paper.Sentences (6)-(8) are null pronominals rather than traces, because they are not de-rived from "move c~."
The notation \[~...\] in sentences (6) and (7) denotes the presenceof a clause.
Null pronominals are in general free, for example, in sentence (8).
But incertain constructions ull pronominals are also bound, for example, in sentences (6)and (7).
Sentence (7) is called a pivot construction but sentence (6) isn't; this is be-cause in sentence (7) the object of the first verb is also the subject of the second verb,while in sentence (6) it is the subject of the first verb that is actually the subject ofthe second verb.
Therefore in sentence (7) the null pronominal in the subject positionis "bound" to the object of the first verb, but this is not the case in sentence (6).
Thespecial techniques of the raise-bind mechanism proposed in this paper to handle allsuch different types of empty categories will be explained in detail ater in this paper.4.
The Overall System and the Linguistic Knowledge BaseBecause the Chinese language has many special structures quite different from manyother languages, in this paper a Chinese natural anguage processing system is spe-cially designed to parse Chinese sentences more efficiently.
The block diagram of thesystem is shown in Figure 3.
The system is composed of two parts.
The first part,consisting of a preprocessor and a lexicon plus word formation rules, first segmentsthe input Chinese sentences (or a series of Chinese characters) into words by lookingthem up in the lexicon and applying some word formation rules.
This is because, inChinese, a word can be composed of from one to several characters without blankson both ends to indicate the boundaries of a word; therefore, such a segmentation isnecessary.
Because it is impossible to collect all Chinese words into the lexicon, someword formation rules can be found to identify the words in the input sentences tohelpthe formulation of some compound words; e.g.
the determiner/measure compoundwords, the reduplication words, etc., such that they don't have to be stored in the352Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese Languagelexicon.
However, because of the high degree of inherent lexical ambiguity, very oftenan input sentence can be segmented into several different possible word combinationsand there are no simple rules to decide which combination is the correct answer.
Inthis preprocessor, a heuristic longest word matching rule (Chen 1985) is applied todecide a most promising word combination, but errors still happen sometimes in thepreprocessor and manual correction is actually needed.
The preprocessor also addsrelevant categorial information and other features extracted from the lexicon to eachof the words.
The result of the first part is represented by a data structure~a direction-selective chart (to be discussed in detail in the next section) and is transported to thesecond part.
The second part, consisting of a parser and a linguistic knowledge base,builds up phrases on the direction-selective chart by applying the linguistic knowledgebase.
The parser is a head-driven chart parser, but with several special approaches de-veloped to make the parser more efficient for the Chinese language, which will alsobe made clear later in this paper.
The linguistic knowledge base can be broadly seenas a compilation of a four-tuple; i.e., the phrase structure rules (PSR), the FIRST andLAST parsing tables of these rules, the check rules, and the lexicon shared with thefirst part.
If the sentence is grammatical in the sense of the grammar, a syntax treewill result as the output.
Otherwise, failure will be reported.
From now on, this paperwill concentrate on the second part of the system, i.e., the parser and the linguisticknowledge base only, while the details of the first part can be found in other works(Ho 1984; Chen 1985).
As far as the second part of the system is concerned, the inputsentences are assumed to be segmented into words with categorial information andother features provided by the lexicon.The linguistic knowledge base used in this system, as mentioned above, can bebroadly seen as a compilation of a four-tuple: the phrase structure grammar (PSRs),the FIRST and LAST parsing tables for these PSRs, the check rules, and a lexiconas shown in Figure 4.
The PSRs describe how sentences are built up out of phrasalcategories, and how phrases are built up out of lexical categories and/or phrasalcategories.
All of these PSRs combined with some syntactic and semantic onstraintsare implemented as an ATN-like network (Woods 1970).
For each probable phrasalcategory (constituent), the FIRST and LAST parsing tables indicate all possible lexicalcategories that may begin or end with the present phrasal category to guide the parserto eliminate some unnecessary searching actions in parsing, as will be described indetail in Section 6.
The check rules are used in the raise-bind mechanism to handlethe binding problems of empty categories and to reject illegal sentences or parsingtrees, as will be described in detail in Sections 8 and 9.
The lexicon is a Chinesemachine dictionary, in which the allomorphs are stored together with their features andother information for syntactic and semantic analysis; e.g., category (CAT), arguments(ARG), meaning (MEA), allomorph (ALO), person, number.., etc.5.
The Direction-Selective Chart and the Head-Driven Chart ParserAs discussed above, the Chinese language has prominent head-final/head-initial sen-tence structures, and zero pronouns are relatively freely used in Chinese sentences.Therefore, to reduce unnecessary computation i parsing Chinese sentences, a bottom-up and head-driven parsing strategy, as was used in the present study, will be moreefficient han a top-down and strictly left-to-right parsing strategy.
This is because abottom-up arsing strategy can avoid inefficiency in duplicating many computationsthat a top-down parser often suffers from when backtracking occurs, and a head-drivenparsing strategy can eliminate many unnecessary searching actions (i.e., searching ac-tions fired by head constituents could be more promising) that often occur in a strictly353Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4FIRST and LAST TablesPhrase Structure Rules @Figure 4The linguistic knowledge base.+Check RulesLexicon @left-to-right parsing scheme.
This will all become clearer later in this paper.
Severalapproaches were further developed in the present parser described in this paper tobetter ealize this concept, so that significant improvement as compared to some pre-vious Chinese natural anguage processing systems (Yang 1987; Jiang 1985; H. H. Chenet al 1988) can be observed.
In the following sections, these approaches, including thedirection-selective chart, the bidirectional look-ahead approach, the heuristic schedul-ing policy, and the raise-bind mechanism will be described in detail.
Here, we firstdescribe the direction-selective chart in this section.Before parsing is performed, any input word sequence has to be first representedby the direction-selective chart.
Just like a conventional chart (Kay 1980; Winograd1983), the direction-selective chart is an efficient data structure to record what has beendone so far in the course of parsing to avoid duplicate computation.
The special featureof the direction-selective chart is that the active edges (the incomplete constituentsthat need other complete constituents o their left or right to compose larger ones) arefurther partitioned into two disjoint groups: forward-active (F-active) and backward-active (B-active) edges to indicate different search directions as described below.In the head-driven parser, the parsing process will begin on the heads in the inputword sequence.
As described in Section 2, the heads in the Chinese language are ateither the initial or final position of a phrase; therefore, in a head-driven parser, thesearching actions triggered by an initial head (being a complete constituent) are al-ways looking forward (from left to right); while the actions triggered by a final headare always looking backward (from right to left).
However, no bidirectional search-ing actions can be triggered by a single head in the course of parsing.
Therefore, inthis head-driven chart parser, the F-active edges are used to denote forward search-ing actions, and the B-active edges are used to denote the backward.
The informationspecified on each active edge then consists of the search direction (forward or back-ward), in addition to normal information, such as the vertices where the edge starts,and ends, the grammar ule referred to, etc.Two diagrams depicted in Figure 5 show the two different searching actions.
Figure5a is the forward search and Figure 5b the backward, in which each arc represents aninactive edge (a complete constituent) and each arrow line represents an active edge.The labels attached above the inactive edges denote the corresponding categories.354Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese Language(a) The  searching actions triggered by an in i t ia l  head are a lways  look ing  fo rward  ( le f t - to - r ight ) .The  sample  grammar  ru le :  X ->  ~ ... YnX / /Y3I I(b) The  searching actions triggered by a f ina l  head are a lways  look ing  backward  ( r ight - to - le f t ) .The  sample  grammar  ru le :  X ->  Y1  ... YnXX\Yn-2Figure 5The searching actions in the direction-selective chart.According to the sample grammar rules listed in the figure, the arrow points out thesearch direction, and a label attached above with a form X//Y indicates that it needsa right neighboring complete constituent with Y category to form an X constituent; alabel with a form X\\Y indicates that it needs a left neighboring complete constituentwith Y category to form an X constituent.To compare with a similar approach, in Stock's island-driven bidirectional chart(Stock et al 1988), the searching actions are triggered by islands (an island is a morereliable word hypothesis resulting from speech recognition) and the searching direc-tions may be bidirectional; i.e., an active edge may search for constituents on bothsides as shown in Figure 6.
Also, Pareschi and Steedman (1987) had proposed anothersimilar bidirectional chart parsing algorithm to handle operations such as functionalcomposition for categorial grammars applications (Steedman 1985).
However, in ourparser, the actions triggered by the heads have directions either strictly forward orstrictly backward, obviously resulting from the head-final/head-initial phenomena ofthe Chinese language.
This makes the control of our parser much simpler and moreefficient in the present problem.6.
The Bidirectional Look-Ahead ApproachSince Chinese is believed to be a syntactically ambiguous language with relatively freeword order, many complicated syntactic phenomena derived from such situation willthus make it difficult for a parser to work on Chinese sentences deterministically, aswas done in Marcus's famous work for English (1982).
For example, in long-distancemovements he distance between the location of the binding NP and its correspondingempty category may be long, and the grammatical relation in such a sentence can be355Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4The sample  gran'm'tar rule:X -> Y1 ... Y i  .... Y j .
.
.
.
.YnFigure 6The searching action with Stock's bidirectional chart parser.very complicated.
It is also very often difficult for a parser to deal efficiently with thebinding of the empty category deterministically.
This is why substantial redundantcomputation efforts usually occur unavoidably in analyzing Chinese natural language.However, some of this redundant computation can be avoided in the present parser,by the approach discussed below.An active edge built on a chart indicates a stage in the search for a constituent.
Irecords the category of the constituent it is looking for, where the constituent shouldbe, and the structure obtained so far in order to form a complete one.
During thecourse of parsing because the parser usually cannot correctly predict he category andposition of the constituents obe built next, many unnecessary and redundant activeedges will inevitably be built and substantial searching efforts thus have to be wasted,as very often happened in many chart-based parser s .
This is very inefficient and can,in fact, be significantly improved in the present system based on the following concept.Because no phrasal category is null in the grammar ules, whenever an active edgeis built into the direction-selective chart, the parser can first examine the constituent,exactly located at the position the active edge is looking for, to check whether thedesired category can begin with (if the active edge is F-active for an initial head) orend with (if the active edge is B-active for a final head) the category of the examinedconstituent, according to the description of the grammar.
In this way it is possible forthe parser of the present system to avoid building many unnecessary active edges bysuch a "bidirectional look-ahead approach" combining the special head-driven strategydeveloped in the present study with the concept of FIRST and LAST parsing tables(Aho and Ullman 1972) to be discussed in detail below.
In the following, we shall firstdefine these two tables and then describe how the bidirectional look-ahead approachworks.FIRST(C): If C is a category, FIRST(C) is the set of all possible lexical categoriesthe category C can begin with.
Meanwhile, a matrix tabulating such FIRST relationsof all categories of a grammar is called the FIRST parsing table of the grammar.
Forexample, Figure 7 is the FIRST parsing table for the sample grammar rules listed inFigure 8.
For instance, in it FIRST(NP) = {PRON, N} because FIRST(NP) = PRON UN U FIRST(XPDE) = PRON U N U FIRST(S) = PRON U N = {PRON, N}.LAST(C): If C is a category, LAST(C) is the set of all possible lexical categories thecategory C can end with.
Meanwhile, a matrix tabulating such LAST relations of allcategories of a grammar is called the LAST parsing table of the grammar.
For example,Figure 9 shows the LAST parsing table for the sample grammar rules listed in Figure 8.356Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese LanguageNPXPDF-,VPV-barSV-V-13PRONNDEADVV- V-n  PRON NX XX XX XX XX XXXXXDE ADVXXXFigure 7The FIRST parsing table for the sample grammar shown in Figure 7, where each entry filledby an "X" indicates that the category (constituent) for the row may begin with the lexicalcategory for the column.
(1)NP --> PRON I (XPDE) N(2) XPDE --> S DE I NP DE(3) VP --> (ADV)* V-bar(4) V-bar --> V- lY.
:n- NP(5) s --> NP y_P_Figure 8A set of sample grammar rules to show the construction of the FIRST and LAST parsing tables.NPXPDEVPV-barSV-V-nPRONNDEADVV- V-n PRONXX XX XX XXXXN DEXXXXXXXADVXFigure 9The LAST parsing table for the sample grammar shown in Figure 7, where each entry filled byan "X" indicates that the category (constituent) for the row may end with the lexical categoryfor the column.For instance, in it LAST(VP) = LAST(V-bar) = V- U LAST(NP) = V- U PRON tAN ={V-, PRON, N}.In the present parser, both of these parsing tables for the Chinese grammar usedhave been constructed (no phrasal category is null).
During parsing, when an F-activeedge is waiting to be constructed (using X / /Y  as in Figure 5a to indicate its searchingaction), the parser will first look up the FIRST table to see whether the word, at theposition it is looking for, has a lexical category belonging to FIRST(Y).
If it does, thenthe active edge can be built; otherwise the active edge is redundant, because no suchrequired constituent can be constructed.
Similarly, when a B-active edge is waiting to357Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4(a)(b)V-bar//NP N belongs to FIRST(NP)again hit children(hit children again)NP \ \  XPDEADV V-n t ~ Iagain hit childrenV-n don't belong toLAST(XPDE)Figure 10An example to illustrate the use of FIRST and LAST parsing tables to avoid building manyunnecessary active edges on the direction-selective chart.be constructed (using X\\Y to indicate its searching action), the parser will first lookup the LAST table to see whether the word, at the position it is looking for, has alexical category belonging to LAST(Y).
If it does, then the active edge can be built;otherwise the active edge is redundant, because no such required constituent can beconstructed.For example, consider parsing a Chinese phrase, illustrated in Figure 10, withthe above sample grammar and parsing tables in Figures 7-9.
In Figure 10a, an F-active edge (V-bar//NP) is triggered by the initial head "q-f (hit)."
This indicates thata right neighboring NP constituent is needed to form a complete V-bar constituent.Fortunately, the right neighboring word " /1" ~ (children)," exactly has an N categorybelonging to FIRST(NP); therefore, the edge can be constructed.
On the other hand,in Figure 10b, a B-active edge NP\\XPDE is triggered by the final head " d" ~ (chil-dren)."
This indicates that a left neighboring XPDE constituent is needed to form acomplete NP constituent.
However, in this case the left neighboring word "~ (hit)"doesn't have a category belonging to LAST(XPDE); therefore, the edge will not bebuilt, because it is apparently redundant.
In this way, the bidirectional look-ahead ap-proach can, in fact, eliminate many unnecessary searching actions (or active edges) andmake the parsing process more efficient.
A similar approach can be found in Tomita'sextended LR parser (Tomita 1986), in which the parsing table used is an extended LRparsing table, and the parsing process performed is strictly left-to-right, as comparedto the two different parsing tables and two parsing directions in the present system.7.
The Heuristic Scheduling PolicyEach step in the parsing process can very often produce more than one subsequentsteps.
For example, a hew edge built into a chart may cause an arbitrary number ofedges (candidate constituents) to be built.
Usually, in such situations ome of them358Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese Languageshould be processed prior to the others instead of simply performing exhaustive pro-cessing.
In other words, a well defined scheduling policy is, in fact, helpful.
This iswhy most of the chart parsers have an agenda to schedule these steps (Kay 1980).
Inthe present system, a heuristic scheduling policy is also developed, as described inthis section.In the present system the scheduling policy is primarily based on some heuristicestimation obtained from empirical experiences, in which each candidate constituentis assigned a priority to indicate processing order.
Most of the time, the assignment isdescribed by its category.
For example, a constituent with an S category will be con-structed prior to a constituent with a VP category (some unnecessary VP constituentsmay be therefore liminated, for example), a constituent with a VP category will beconstructed prior to one with a V-bar category.., etc.
On the other hand, if more thanone candidate constituents have the same priority, the constituent at the right-mostposition (located at the farthest end vertex) is then the first to be built.To see how the above heuristic scheduling policy is integrated with the head-driven chart parser discussed here to efficiently parse an input sentence, a simpleexample is used in the following to show the parsing process.
Suppose the inputsentence is:you of brother again hit children(your brother hits children again)and the grammar ules, the FIRST and LAST tables used are those shown in Fig-ures 7-9, respectively.
The resulting chart is shown in Figure 11a, where the numbersattached on the edges indicate their order in the course of parsing.
In fact, it is easyto see that many constructions have been successfully avoided in the chart.
To makethe illustration simple and clear, here we shall follow the parser to analyze only thesentence fragment " Y~ ~ t\]~  " (hit children again) as shown in Figure 11b.Before the parsing process tarts, three inactive edges are constructed in the chartto represent the sentence fragment.
Then, based on the head-driven principle and thesample grammar, the word "q-f (hit)," according to rule (4) in the sample grammar,is an initial head (a transitive verb) that needs a right neighboring NP to form aV-bar (that is represented by an F-active edge; i.e., edge(l) in Figure 11b); the word" d' ~ (children)," based on rule (1), is a final head (a noun) that either can be an NPby itself (this is represented by an inactive edge; i.e., edge(2) in Figure 11b) or needsa left neighboring XPDE to form an NP (this is represented by a B-active edge(*) inFigure 11b).
Examining each of these three edges with either the FIRST or LAST tables,as illustrated in Figure 10b previously, edge(*) should not be built (it is a redundantedge) but edges (1) and (2) both can be potential candidates and, thus, should be built.Now, according to the heuristic scheduling policy, a V-bar edge will be built prior toan NP edge; therefore, edge (1) is the first edge to be built.
However, since there isno such NP currently in the chart, no new edges can be produced after edge (1) isadded, and thus edge (2), the only candidate, is then added to the chart.
This edgenow satisfies the request of edge (1) and, therefore, creates a V-bar inactive edge (edge(3)) as a new candidate.
Meanwhile, since edge (2) isn't a head, no active edges can betriggered, so that edge (3) is the third edge to be built.
Similarly, a VP (edge (4)) canthen be triggered by edge (3), and, finally, a complete VP constituent (edge(5)) can bebuilt.359Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4(a )N V -(14)  SCo)(4 )  V I~XADV(*)  N~xXPDE(1)  V-bar l~ADV V-n  NFigure 11An example to demonstrate he parsing process.8.
The Raise-Bind Mechanism and Check RulesThe raise-bind mechanism presented here is specially developed in the present systemto treat the difficult problems of movement transformations and empty categories sothat the design of the grammar can be simplified.
It is used to cope with the emptycategories; in other words, to find the antecedent for each empty category except forthose that are free (such as in sentence (8) in Section 3).
During the parsing processwhen an NP is desired, the parser, with the aid of the raise-bind mechanism, willperform the following operations.First, a corresponding active edge indicating the request for an NP may be built inthe chart after looking up the FIRST or LAST tables.
This request can be satisfied whena desired NP is actually encountered.
Second, if the desired NP is not encounteredand the NP position can, instead, be filled by an empty category (according to thecheck rules with details explained below), then an empty NP will be generated to fillthe vacant position and a new edge (active or inactive) denoting this satisfaction willbe built in the chart.
This empty NP will then be raised up in some way along theparsing tree (implicitly represented in the chart) when the tree is growing up (recallthat the parser works bottom up), until .its antecedent is parsed.
At this point, theparser binds the empty NP by setting it to refer to its antecedent (this is also guidedby check rules as described below).
Once bound, the empty NP will not be raised upany further, because an empty NP has exactly one antecedent and cannot be boundmore than once.Not every NP position can be filled by an empty category.
In the Chinese language,360Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese Languageempty categories only appear in the subject position and direct object position, neverin the indirect object position, or the prepositional object position.
In our implemen-tation, an empty NP contains three fields: (1) a field to keep the pointer to indicate itsantecendent, (2) a field to keep where it came from, and (3) a field to keep the syn-tactic or semantic onstraints on the empty NP for later checking.
Rules for this kindof checking are called check rules in the present system.
Most of the time, these checkrules are invoked when a constituent containing unbound empty categories i built inthe chart.
Usually, distinct rules are used to treat different problems.
For example, wecan informally state the rules to treat the relativization phenomena as follows: for anoun and a relative clause to be combined into an NP, the relative clause must containan empty NP that is unbound and marked to be coming from either the subject posi-tion or the object position of the relative clause, and then this empty NP will be boundto the (head) noun (just as in sentence (5) in Section 3; a further example will be givenbelow).
We can also state the check rules for passivization as follows: once a clause isconstructed, the parser checks whether the prepositional phrase, " ~ + NP" (similarto "by + NP" in English) is involved in the clause.
If so, there must be an empty NPthat is unbound and marked to be coming from some object position, and this emptyNP will be bound to the subject of the clause (just as in sentence (3) in Section 3; afurther example will be given below).
The check rules for pivot construction can alsobe formulated as follows: in a pivot construction, the direct object will bind the emptyNP coming from the subject position of the embedded clauses (just as in sentence (7)in Section 3; a further example will be given below).
Apparently, check rules for otherlinguistic phenomena such as topicalization, ba-transformation, a d so on can all besimilarly developed.
In fact, the binding process in the raise-bind mechanism here isrule-based rather than principle-based; that is, the whole binding process in the raise-bind mechanism is determined by the check rules and the phrase structure rules, whileinstead in some other principle-based parsers, for example, a parser completely basedon GB theory (Wehrli 1988), it is influenced by some linguistic principles; e.g.
the gov-ernment binding principle in GB theory.
However, the rule-based approaches may takesome more cost in computation than the principle-based approaches, but in dealingwith some specific problems the former approaches seem more flexible than the latterapproaches.
This is why in sentence (7) (pivot construction) the empty category in thesubject position of the embedded clause can be bound to the NP " t\]~ ~ (children)"in the higher clause, even if it is not governed by the NP.
To illustrate the operationof the above check rules, let's consider phrase (9) in the following and its parsing treein Figure 12, in which several of such phenomena interact with one another.
It will beshown that, with the present approach, this complicated problem can be solved easily.by Li-s ask go to dinner relativizer children(the children who were asked by Li-s to go to dinner)Let's follow the bottom-up arser to parse phrase (9): (1) Node $1 (a clause con-stituent) is constructed and el serves as the dummy subject (an NP).
(2) Node V-baris constructed and the dummy object e2 is inserted.
Because of the empty categoryel existing in the embedded clause $1, the check rules are invoked.
According to thecheck rules for pivot construction, el is bound to e2.
(3) Node $2 is constructed withan empty NP e3.
$2 is a passive clause because of the PP, "by Li-s." According to thecheck rules for passivization, e3 binds e2.
(4) Node NP is constructed.
According to thecheck rules for relativization, e3 is bound to "children."
Notice that only e3 was raisedup across the node $2, because l and e2 had been bound before $2 was constructed.361Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4e iLn)(relativizer)A - -(by Li-s) (ask) / ~/ \el ~ e2 ~e2 ~ e3 (go to dinner)e3 ~ ,,J~ ~ (children)Figure 12The parsing tree of the example (9).Once the parsing tree in Figure 12 is completed, it is easy to answer questions uchas who were asked and who went to dinner.
Since el is the dummy subject of "go todinner" and the binder of el is e2, whose binder is e3, whose binder is "children,"we can conclude it is "children" who went to dinner.
In the same way, we can alsoconclude it is "children" who were asked.The raise-bind mechanism also serves as a filter to rule out incorrect sentences orincorrect parsing trees.
For example, if no empty NP is raised up or no NP is boundwithin a construction i volving passivization or relativization, such a construction willbe rejected by the check rules.
On the other hand, some unbound NP could have noantecedent.
This can be determined from the check rules by looking up the attributesof its corresponding verb.
If the corresponding argument of the verb can actually beomitted, then the parsing tree can be accepted; otherwise, the parsing tree will beruled out.
Of course, if this mechanism is adopted for English sentence analysis, a testmust be performed to rule out sentences with other empty categories that have nobinder.
But such sentences are, in general, grammatical in Chinese (just as sentence (8)in Section 3).9.
Further Discussion of the Raise-Bind MechanismRelativization i  Chinese is a long-distance movement; hat is, it can sometimes movean object across several S (sentence) nodes.
The noun phrase in (10) below shows anexample.
On the other hand, the noun phrase in (11) is ambiguous.
If the head noun("the man") binds el, this NP means "the man whom someone likes."
If the head nounbinds e2, on the other hand, it means "the man who likes someone or something."
Toremove the ambiguity, semantic interactions are needed.362Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese Language10.\[sq~ ~q ~ ~ Is ~7 ~ Is ~ e\] J \]I ask Li-s help me buy (relativizer)(the book which I asked Li-s to help me buy)11.
Is e2 ~X~ el \] ~ .A.like (relativizer) the manbookConsidering the above situations, we can further improve the check rules as fol-lows: for a noun and a relative clause to be combined into an NP, the parser checksthe "empty-NP list" raised up from the relative clause, and?
if no empty NP is raised up, rule out the NP constituent;?
if an empty NP is raised up and marked to be coming from the subjectposition or object position or embedded object position (as in example(10)), set the empty NP to be bound to the head noun;?
if two empty NPs are raised up from both the subject and objectpositions (as in example (11)), employ semantic analysis to determine theproper binding (the present system is syntactically-based therefore suchsemantic analysis will be considered in the next phase research).Like relativization, topicalization is also a long-distance movement and can be furtherimproved in a similar way.Another syntactic phenomena crucial to the parser is known as the complex NPConstraint (CNPC) (Radford 1981); i.e., no transformation rule can move any elementout of a complex NP, where a complex NP (CNP) is an NP containing a relative clause.This CNPC can be easily encoded in the grammar in the present approach by a simplerule; i.e., no empty NPs can be raised up across a CNP node.
Hence, it is impossiblefor the empty NP within a CNP to be bound to any element out of that CNP.In most cases, ba-transformation and passivization move the direct objects of verbs.But the phenomenon k own as "subject-to-object raising" (Radford 1981) has some dif-ferences.
In such a case, the subject of an embedded clause can be moved into the sub-ject (or ba-object) position of the higher clause by passivization (or ba-transformation).For example, sentence (13) is derived from sentence (12) by such a movement.12.
~g ~J:~ "~ -~{-~ i~ {~ ~ ;~ ~-~people future will believe this mistake is correct(People will believe in the future that this mistake is correct.)13.
~_~g~ ~ ~" ~ Ag  ~,~ _?
;~this mistake future will by people believe is correct(This mistake will be believed to be correct by the people in the future.
)To cope with such subject-to-object raising, the rules described in the previous ectionfor passivization can be modified as follows.
The subject of a passive clause will bindthe empty NP in either the object position or the subject position of an embeddedclause.The raise-bind mechanism is a computational pproach to deal with the bindingof empty categories.
Its most attractive feature is, in fact, that it is specially designed363Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4to be used for head-driven strategy as in the present system.
In ATN (Bates 1978),the hold-list mechanism is used for a similar purpose.
However, it is not very helpfulin parsing Chinese because: (a) it does not really fit the head-driven operation; (b) itcannot deal with really unbound empty categories (e.g.
example (8)); (c) it handles leftextraposition (e.g.
(2)-(4)), but not right extraposition (e.g.
sentence (5)).
A movementis called left (or right) extraposition, if it moves an NP to the position left (or right) ofits trace.
To deal with right extraposition, ATN uses another mechanisim.In GB theory, both left extraposition and right extraposition move an NP to aposition governing its trace; a null pronominal, if bound, is always bound to an NPgoverning the null pronominal (Chomsky 1981).
So, the raise-bind mechanism com-bined with the check rules discussed here is sufficient to cope with all empty categories,left or right extrapositions, and traces or null pronominals, ince its function is simplyto raise up an empty category to be bound by an NP that governs this empty cat-egory.
We believe that by means of the raise-bind mechanism it will not be difficultto implement some similar linguistic operators uch as the slash concept of GPSG(Sells 1985).
However, this present approach still has some constraints; for example,the check rules may take some computation cost, and multiple binding may occur ifsome of the check rules are not consistent in some situations.10.
Preliminary Experimental ResultsIn order to see how the present approaches work as compared to conventional p-proaches in parsing Chinese sentences, an experimental system was implemented andextensive xperiments have been performed.
The system is written in C language andperformed on an IBM PC/AT.
A total of 47 phrase structure rules were used, in which19 rules are backward with a final head (indicated by a backward flag) and 28 rulesare forward with an initial head (indicated by a forward flag).
All these rules, togetherwith the corresponding FIRST and LAST tables are listed in APPENDIX A and AP-PENDIX B, respectively.
A total of four tests were performed for each test sentence.In test I, a conventional left-to-right parsing strategy without any look-ahead capa-bility was used, while in Test II the left-to-right parsing strategy was equipped witha forward look-ahead approach (with the FIRST table only).
In Test III, the presenthead-driven parsing strategy based on the direction-selective chart was used withoutany look-ahead capability, and finally in Test IV, the present head-driven parsing strat-egy based on the direction-selective chart equipped with the bidirectional look-aheadapproach (with both the FIRST and LAST tables) was used.
Because of the flexibility ofthe present direction-selective chart, all the above four tests can be easily implementedin the present system.
For example, to perform Test I all one has to do is simply switchall the flags in the phrase structure rules into the forward mode, etc.After every test sentence was parsed in each test and an output syntax tree wasobtained, the total number of constituents constructed in the process of parsing wasrecorded.
In Figure 13, the total number of constituents constructed in each of thefour tests, together with the number of resulting output parsing trees for 25 typicalsentence xamples picked up from a total of 200 test sentences, are listed.
These 25typical sentence xamples are also listed in APPENDIX C. In Figure 14, the reductionratios of edge construction for the four tests as compared to Test I (i.e., the ratioof the number of edge constructions to that of Test I for the 25 sentence xamples),together with the average reduction ratios for all the 200 test sentences, are shown.Also listed in the last row of Figure 14 is the average time necessary to process asentence on the IBM PC/AT for each test.
It can be found that, as compared to the364Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese Languageconventional pproach in Test I, on average the total number of necessary constituentsconstructed for a sentence is reduced by a factor of 0.635 (or less than 2/3), or therequired processing time is reduced from 8.2 sec to 3.1 sec for a sentence, through theuse of the present direction-selective chart, the head-driven parsing strategy, and thebidirectional look-ahead approaches (Test IV).
Also, if the direction-selective and thehead-driven parsing strategy are used alone without look-ahead capability (Test III), anedge reduction ratio of 0.762 can be achieved and it takes about 6.4 sec on average toparse a sentence, which is close to the edge reduction ratio and processing speed (0.758and 6.2 sec/sentence) for the use of the FIRST table only with conventional left-to-rightparsing (Test II).
Moreover, another important observation is that the edge reductionratios are more prominent or the present approaches become more efficient when thetest sentence has a higher degree of ambiguity (a larger number of parsing trees wereobtained).
Test sentences 20 and 22 in Figures 13 and 14 are good examples.
In any case,these results have shown that the present approaches ofdirection-selective chart, head-driven parsing, and bidirectional look-ahead can, in fact, eliminate many unnecessarysearching actions (or active edges) and can make the parsing process much moreefficient han conventional left-to-right parsing strategies in parsing Chinese sentences.On the other hand, in order to show the capabilities of the present parser especiallywith the raise-bind mechanism to handle the difficult problem of empty categories,parsing results of several typical sentence xamples having empty categories are in-cluded in APPENDIX D in bracketed text form.
These results show that the raise-bindmechanism, combined with the check rules proposed here, can certainly treat sophis-ticated syntactic problems of empty categories and movement transformations andsimplify the design of grammar ules.Although the lexicon implemented on the present system is relatively small (in-cluding 1,120 words) compared with dictionaries for practical applications (it is es-timated that at least 80,000 words are necessary), the capabilities of this system areclearly demonstrated.
It was estimated in the tests that, as a general-purpose ystemwithout any special problem domain, about 80% to 85% of the sentences in the high-school textbooks of Taiwan, can be successfully analyzed by this system, providedthat all the necessary words are either already in or can be keyed into the lexiconbefore analysis or parsing is performed.
This estimate was obtained simply because inthe tests in fact a total of 241 sentences randomly selected from these textbooks weretested and correct parsing trees were obtained for 200 of them.
These 200 sentencesare therefore used in all the above discussions.11.
Concluding Remarks and Future Research DirectionsIn this paper an efficient natural anguage processing system specially designed for theChinese language is presented.
The present design is the result of careful considera-tion of some of the special syntactic phenomena of the Chinese language; for example,head-final and head-initial structures, empty categories, and movement transforma-tions.
The present system is an attractive integration of several novel approaches;e.g., the head-driven parsing strategy, the direction-selective chart, the bidirectionallook-ahead approach, the heuristic scheduling policy, and the raise-bind mechanismbased on check rules, etc.
The head-driven parsing strategy can eliminate unneces-sary searching actions, and the direction-selective chart simplifies the control of thehead-driven parsing strategy and makes the parser more flexible in performing manydifferent parsing strategies.
The heuristic scheduling policy and the bidirectional look-ahead approach can, in fact, further significantly reduce the large number of searching365Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4Figure 13Testsentence---'T'-2""'at'-"-"'5"- ----d'--"-b-'-"-"I/Y'-11"-'I'J--"'I-4"-15161720Number  o f  edge  const ruot ions  Nun~bcr  otpars ingT?s ,  ~ Test  I I  Tes t  IV87re j, \[o:.
io:, ~I~~'  7I~+ le~, + p~,  i l l k  '~ ~ I uq'1: "T'I' -PI' ~ Y  'A table listing the total number of constituents constructed in the four tests and the number ofparsing trees obtained for the 25 typical sentence xamples listed in APPENDIX C.actions and make the parsing processes more efficient, while the raise-bind mecha-nism and the check rules can certainly handle sophisticated problems of movementtransformations and empty categories, and can simplify the design of grammar ules.Although much more work is still in progress to further improve the present system,this is definitely a very good initial attempt o efficiently process natural sentencesof the Chinese language, the structure of which is significantly different from mostwestern languages, such as English?Although the present system has shown satisfactory initial results, some naturaldifficulties for the Chinese language still remain, such that significant improvementover the present system is highly desired.
One of the primary difficulties is due to thelack of inflections in Chinese words?
This gives multiple solutions in word categoryidentification and causes exponential growth in the number of structures.
It is, there-fore, believed that an integrated syntactic and semantic analysis will eventually becomean inevitable solution in the future.
Because verbs are, ultimately, heads of sentences,appropriate classification of verbs may help in determining syntactic structure and,thus in grasping the semantic meaning of sentences.
Although in most linguistic theo-ries verbs are classified according to syntactic properties, and some linguistic theories,such as Lexical Functional Grammar (Sells 1985) and Case Grammar (Fillmore 1968),also provide mechanisms to explicitly represent functional or semantic role assignmentof constituents, uch work for the Chinese language is still relatively preliminary.
Chao(1968) has only distinguished intransitive verbs from transitive verbs and Yang (1987)has made very encouraging initial efforts by classifying Chinese verbs according to366Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese LanguageFigure 14TestSentc~tc1456/10l .
j161718192O212223Avert -ageRat ios~verageSpeed ofPi -ocess i~ g(See/Sen  -~nee)Edge Reduct ion  Rat ios' Tes t  I Tes t  I I  Tes t  I I I  Tes t  I \1.000  0 .725  0 .809  0 .6751 .000  0 .757  0 .718  0 .5981 .000  0 .794  0 .815  0 .6791 .000  0 .764  0 .711  0 .5831 .000  0 .736  0 .808  0 .6671 .000  0 .806  0 .788  0 .7171 .000  0 .760  0 .742  0 .6301 .000  0 .80~ 0 .811  0 .6751.000  0.800  0 .808  0 .7181 .000  0 .757  0 .875  0 .7851 .000  0 .710  0 .647  0 .5861 .000  0 .719  0 .704-  0 .6321 .000  0 .664  0 .797  0 .7191.000  u .
/ 1o  u .~ 1~ u .br~t )1.000  0 .701  0 .638  0 .5691 .000  0 .748  0 .84-4  0 .7141 .000  0 .791  O.
808  0 .7291 .000  0 .723  0 .672  0 .6171 .000  0 .729  0 .750  0 .6561 .000  0 .698  0 .592  0 .5141 .000  0 .834  0.90.4- 0 .7721 .000  0 .817  0 .675  0 .6131 .000  0 .766  0 .717  0 .6461 .000  0 .758  0 .762  0 .6358.2 6.2 6.4 3.1A table showing the edge reduction ratios for the 25 typical sentence examples listed inAPPENDIX C and the average reduction ratios for all the 200 test sentences for the four testscampared to Test I.their transitivity into eight different syntactic lasses and giving each verb a semanticcategory that can be used to decide the case frame to solve the problem of serial verbconstruction.
Recently, a new classification scheme for Chinese verbs has been devel-oped (K.-J.
Chen et al 1988), in which current heories of feature-based categorizationare adopted.
This scheme is based on the results of analyzing 16,824 Chinese verbs,with careful consideration given to difficulties in parsing Chinese sentences.
In thenext stage of the present study, this verb classification will be employed, and muchmore syntactic and semantic information will be provided by the lexicon, especiallyfor verbs, and represented ascomplex feature structures (Gazdar 1988).
Furthermore,several other approaches will also be included in the next stage of the present study,such as the unification concept (Sheiber 1986), and the slot and filler principle (Hell-wing 1988).
In other words, although there is still a very long way to go before areally convenient and efficient natural anguage processing system for Chinese be-comes available in the future, the present system apparently serves as a successfulinitial step on the way.367Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4Appendix AThe phrase  structure rules used in the exper iments1.
b $2 --* S PRTAG2.
b S --, NP  VP3.
f S --* VP4.
f NP  + N5.
f NP  --* PLACE6.
f NP  --* TIME7.
b NP  --, NP  LOC8.
f NP  --* LOC9.
b NP  ~ PreN1 N10.
b NP  --, PreN2 N11.
b NP  --+ PreN3 N12.
f PreN2 --* QP13.
b PreN2 --* XPDE QP14.
b PreN1 + XPDE ADJ15.
b PreN1 --~ QP ADJ16.
b PreN1 --* ADJ17.
b PreN1 --~ XPDE QP ADJ18.
b PreN1 --* QP XPDE ADJ19.
b PreN3 + QP XPDE20.
f PreN3 --* XPDE21.
b XPDE ~ SDE22.
b XPDE --* NPDE23.
b XPDE --, PPDE24.
f VP --* AUX VBAR25.
f VP --* AUX ADV VBAR26.
f VP --* ADV AUX VBAR27.
f VP --* ADV AUX PPVBAR28.
f VP --* AUX ADV PP VBAR29.
f VP --* ADV VBAR30.
f VP ~ PPVBAR31.
f VP --~ VBAR32.
f VBAR --* V33.
f VBAR --~ V QP34.
f VBAR - -  VPP35.
f VBAR --, V VP36.
f VBAR --- VS37.
f VBAR -~ VNPNP38.
f VBAR ~ VNPPP39.
f VBAR --, VNPVP40.
f VBAR ~ VNP41.
f VBAR --* V NP42.
f PP ~ PREP NP43.
b QP --~ DET NO CLMS44.
b QP ---* NO CLMS45.
b QP ~ DET CLMS46.
f CLMS ~ CL47.
f CLMS ~ MS368L in -Shan Lee et al P rocess ing  Sys tem for Ch inese  LanguageAPPENDIX B.
The FIRST and LAST tables for the sample grammar shown inAPPENDIX A(a) The FIRST table for the sample grammar shown in APPENDIX ANOIV\[SCLDETPREPVADVA ~DEADJNI~TAGPLAC~T I IV IELOC$2SXPDEC 'LMSNO MS CLPRT-  P I .
, -DETPREP V A I )vAUI ' (  DE  A.13J  N AG ACE TnV IE  LOCIzM-rm m m u m m m m m m m m n m m m mm m:4mm m .
: ,mm i I m ":--  Im i, , m.:m m. : i  mmmmm ml m m  i m m mm:qm ram:  mm~:~ m : a  mlnp~.
( n i : ,m m, :qmm i mb:4mD:~mb:Gmm:qmmmm: m.: .m.
:~mm: .m m:.=n: ,= m m-  ~ m ~ m?
~ ,  I .
.
.
.
- -m.  mm.
:~m: Imm.
:q  mmm.
:qmm:amm m: i P : 4 m m ~mira __ .
ram,: ~{q~m.
.
, .
.~ :q  .
.
.
.
.
.
mD: b..immml~m~ mmmnm m m~.~mmm mmmw~im ~ ~ + ~  mmmr.1  - _~ ~ .
i  nlm mm~.
'mm m..~aumm w.~mm;odmm re 'me mmmmm m. :gmmu mmmmmm nn n mmm m l - - : - -  Im m b : ~ m m m m m n  nlm .
~ - -  m:mmm ram:a im m:qmm mmmu m : g m  mm:~mm m m  mm.
:m m. :m h ?
mmm:qmm ram:  me~m m:4m mmw.~m n m~:qm m:~m mm.
:4mb:mb:mi=  m. :q i  m - I  Ill \]I nl I l l(b) The LAST table for the sample grammar shown in APPENDIX ANOMSCLD~Tpl~.IBJPV~d~VDEAID JI~TAOPLACELGg~S2SVP~I~IJDEQPPPNY ' IB~XP l~rPNO MS CLPRT-  PL -DET  PP J~P v ADV AUX DE ADJ  N AO ;kt")_l~ ~ LOC: i nm Im~..~ m m m  m m l mm m g m mm m u m mmmmm mmm m m. :~mm i m ~  ?mmm i il i m~.
:.qm ?mm i i I m.mm I ?mmm n Nil m: mmmm il, iii immm il n in m ..:..- ?m i m. :z  m. - - -  ,-:gmm:~m m.  I In , ml -:~'-- m.:--,,"mmm I P .~m I ammm:~mm I I mmmm i i 1..--.
m. : .
.
, :  L~mm mm-.~,, m:gm I I iii m l m:gm I ,,n~.
',~ ram,.m,.
.
'~  I amu m  I,mm I I .
.
I  ml i mm.qmmmm - .~mmm i ml ii i369Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4APPENDIX C. 25 example sentences to show typical experimental results1.
~-~J  ~2~ ~ ,~ ..12-~ ~fmy (child) has go to school (aspect)(My child has just gone to school.
)your brother again hit my child(Your brother hit my child again.
)this is a (classifier) can listen mandrain (relativizer) computer(This is a computer which can listen to Mandarin.)4.
~d~ ~2~ ~'~ ~ ~ ~-~ ~\[~ ~ ~-J ~he give I a (classifier) I very like (relativizer) flower(He gave me a flower which I liked very much.
)I like my painting hang on wall (localizer)(I like my painting to be hung on the wall.)6.
~ 1~ N~ N ~ fig-t-a (classifier)seed sleep in earth (localizer)(A seed is planted in the earth.
)I don't like do business (relativizer) that (classifier) man(I don't like that fellow who is a businessman.
)he is my high school classmate(He was may classmate when I was in high school.
)at Post Office behid there is a row little houses(There is a row of houses behind the Post Office.)10.~r~!
N N~I 5fin ~'~we ask teacher assign job(We ask the teacher to assign jobs for us.)11.
~ ~\]~ ~ ~\]~ ~ ~2~ ~1~I live in that (classifier) buildings (localizer)(I live in that buildings.)12.
~,J~,:~ ~ ~d~ ;~ ~k~l\]~--~child laugh he is fat(The child laughed at his famess.
)I find my a (classifier) pen lose in classroom(I soon discovered that I had left may pen in the classroom.
)370Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese LanguageAppend ix  C, cont 'din this (classifier)tree behind we find (aspect) a (classifier) white flower(We found a white flower behind this tree.
)I believe Uang-wu would think Jang-san very like that (classifier) pretty lady(1 believed that Uang-wu would think Jang-san liked that pretty lady very much.
)people must think this is a (classifier) wrong thing(People would think this is a wrong thing.)17.
~J~ J{~ /f~l~J - -  ~a~ ~ ~:~"~ ~ _12I (ba) your a (classifier) letter put on deak (localizer)(I left a letter of yours on the desk.
)you tomorrow class about to what time(What time will your class end tomorrow ?
)19.he want (ba) that (classifier) house sell to I(He wants to sell that house to me.
)he sayhe very like Coa) that (classifier) green car park on door that(classifier) big tree behind(He said he liked very much to park that green car beside the big tree near the front door.
)little bird all day long sit on this (classifier) tree (localizer) wait for mother(A little bird sat on the tree all day long waiting for its mother.
)he say he very like (ha) that(classifier)green car park on door of that(classifier) big tree Oocafizer) of a (classifier) small alley (lo~alizer)(He says he likes very much to park that green car in a small alley which is beside the big tree near the front door.
)we yesterday have (aspect) a (classifier) happry holiday(We had a very happy holiday yesterday.
)he (ba) a (classifer)water pour on that (classifer) child body (localizer)(He poured a bucket of water over that child.
)they say this child is that (classifier)school of good student(They say this child is a good student of that school.
)371Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4APPENDIX D. Sample Parsing Results1.
INPUT ==> ~-J~ ~1 ~ ~ ~J ~J\[~ ~ ~,  ~ J).~j J )~I last year lost (relafivizer) that (classifier)dog I before assume~ ~  T, I~  ~ ~ ~ J  T.already die (aspect marker) yesterday unexpectedly by me found (aspect marker)(I used to assume the dog I lost last year must have already died, but it was unexpectedlyfound by me yesterday.
)(SENTENCE(NP <NOUN>(XPDE <S>(S(NP <NOUN>(N <PRON> ===> ~J~ I ))(VP(ADV ===> ~ ~I ~ last year )(V-bar(V <V-n> ===> ~ ~-~ lost )(EMPTY (No.0)))))(DEn ===> ~ relativizer))(QP <Mc>(DET ===> ~\]\[~ that)(CL <Mc> =--> ~ classifer))(N <NOUN> --=> ~J dog ))(s(S--bar(S(NP <NOUN>(N <PRON> ==>> ~ I ))(VP(ADV ===> J~ j  before )(V-bar(V <V-s> =--> J~J\[ ~ think(S(EMPTY (No.2))(VP(ADV ~--~-=> ~ ,~ already )W-bar(V <V-> ===> ~'\[~-~die)(Aspect ===> "j" aspect marker ))))))))(EMPTY (No.5))Cce(NP <TIME>(N <Time>--=> I~ ~ yesterday ))(ADV ===> )~ ~ unexpectedly )(PP <bei>(PREP <bei> ===> ~ by )(NP <NOUN>372Lin-Shan Lee et al Processing System for Chinese LanguageAppendix D, cont'd(N <PRON> ===> ~ me )))(v-t~ar(V <V-n> ===> ~J~\[J found )(EMPTY (No.4))))(PRTAG ===> -~ aspect marker)))EMPTY.4 --= EMPTY.5EMPTY.0 == N: ( ~ dog )EMPTY.2 == NP: (~J~ ~:~t~i  f~J }\]~  ~'J the dogI lost last year)EMPTY.5 == NP: ( ~J~ ~ ~ ~ J~- ~ ~\]~ \[\[ ~ the dog I lost last year )2.
INPUT===> ~_~ ~-~ J~ ~ ~ ~,~,~ ~ ~I~this mistake future will by people believe is correct(This mistake will be believed to be correct by the people in the future.
)(SENTENCE(s(NP <NOUN>(QP <Me>(DET ===> ~.~ ~l this ))(N <NOUN> ===> ~-~ mistake))(vP(ADV =~----> J~  future)(AUX ---==> @ win )(PP <bei>(PREP <bei> ===> ~ by)(NP <NOUN>(N <PRON> ===> ~ ~j~ people)))(V-bar(V <V-s> ===> ~,-~ believe)(s(EMPTY (No.
1))(vP(V-bar(V <SHI> ===>~ is)(s(EMerY (No.0)(VP(V-bar(V <ADJ> ===> ~J \[\]~J correct))))))))))EMPTY.0 == EMPTY.
1EMFrY.i == NP:( j .~\[~'~-~ this mistake)373Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 4ReferencesAho, A. V., and Ullman, J. D. (1972).
TheTheory of Parsing, Translation, andCompling, Vol.
1.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ:Prentice-Hall.Bates, M. (1978).
"The theory and practiceof augmented transition etworkgrammars."
Natural LanguageCommunication with Computers, 191-259.Chao, Y. R. (1968).
A Grammar of SpokenChinese.
Berkeley, CA: University ofCalifornia Press.Chen, H. H., Lin, I. P., and Wu, C. P.
(1988).
"A logical approach to movementtransformation in Mandarin Chinese.
"International Journal of Pattern Recognitionand Artificial Intelligence, (2)1.Chen, K. J., and Chang, L. L. (1988).
"Aclassification of Chinese verbs forlanguage parsing."
International Conferenceof Computer Processing and OrientalLanguages.Chen, J. J.
(1985).
"An experimental parsingsystem for Chinese sentences," M.S.thesis, National Taiwan University, Taipei.Chomsky, N. (1981).
Lectures on Governmentand Binding.
Dordrecht: Foris.Fillmore, C. (1968).
"The case for case."
InUniversals in Linguistic Theory edited byBach and Harms, Holt, Reinhart andWinston.Gazdar, G., Franz, A., Osborne, K., andEvans, R. (1987).
"Natural anguageprocessing in the 1980s."
CSLI, StanfordUniversity.Gazdar, G. (1988).
"Categorial structure.
"Computational Linguistics 14:1-19.Hellwing, P. (1988).
"Chart parsingaccording to the slot and filler principle.
"In Proceedings, International Conference onComputational Linguistics, 242-244.Ho, W. H. (1984).
"Automatic recognition ofChinese words."
M.S.
thesis, NationalTaiwan Institute of Technology, Taipei.Huang, J.
(1982).
"Logical relations inChinese and the theory of grammar.
"Doctoral dissertation, MassachusettsInstitute of Technology, Cambridge, MA.Jiang.
(1985).
"Chinese parsing: An initialexploration at LRC."
Computer Processingof Chinese and Oriental Language 2(2):127-138.Kay, M. (1980).
"Algorithm schemata nddata structures in syntactic processing.
"Xerox Report CSL-80-12, Palo Alto, CA.Li, C. N., and Thompson, S. A.
(1981).Mandarin Chinese.
University of CaliforniaPress.Lin, L. J.
(1985).
"A syntactic analysissystem for Chinese sentences."
M.S.thesis, National Taiwan University, Taipei,~Ihiwan.Lin, L.-J.
; Huang, J.; Chen, K.-J.
; and Lee,L.-S. (1986).
"SASC: A syntactic analysissystem for Chinese sentences."
InProceedings, International Conference onChinese Computing.
Singapore.Lin, L.-J.
; Chert, K.-J.
; Huang, J.; Lee, L.-S.(1986).
"A Chinese natural languageprocessing system based upon the theoryof empty categories."
In Proceedings, FifthNational Conference on Artificial Intelligence(AAAI).
Philadelphia, PA.Marcus, M. P. (1982).
A Theory of SyntacticRecognition for Natural Language.Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.Pareschi R., and Steedman, M. (1987).
"Alazy way to chart-parse with categorialgrammars."
In Proceedings, 25th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Radford, A.
(1981).
Transformational Syntax:A Student's Guide to Chomsky's ExtendedStandard Theory.
Cambridge, U.K.:Cambridge University Press.Sells, P. (11985).
"Lecture on contemporarysyntactic theories: An introduction togovernment-binding theory, generalizedphrase structure grammar, andlexical-functional grammar."
CSLI.Sheiber, S. M. (1986).
An h~troduction toUnification-Based Approaches toGrammar.Chicago: University of Chicago Press.Steedman, M. (1985).
"Dependency andcoordination i the grammar of Dutchand English."
Language.
61, 523-568.Stock, O., Falcone, R., and Insinnamo, P.(1988).
"Island parsing and bidirectionalcharts."
In Proceedings, InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics.Tomita, M. (1986).
Efficient Parsing forNatural Language: A Fast Algorithm forPractical Systems.
Boston: Kluwer.Wehrli, E. (1988).
"Parsing with aGB-grammar."
In Natural Language Parsingand Linguistic Theories, edited by U. Reyleand C. Rohrer, Dordrecht, Boston:D. Reidel, distributed by Kluwer, 177-201.Winograd, T. (1983).
Language as a CognitiveProcess.
Vol.
1: Syntax.
Reading, MA:Addison-Wesley.Woods, W. (1970).
"Transition etworkgrammar for natural language analysis.
"CACM 13(10), 591--606.Yang, Y.
(1987).
"Semantic analysis inChinese sentence analysis."
In Proceedings,International Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence (AAAI).
Milano, Italy.374
