Chinese Number-Names, Tree AdjoiningLanguages, and Mild Context-SensitivityDanie l  Radz insk i  ?Brown UniversityThe Tree Adjoining Grammar formalism, both its single- as well as multiple-component ver-sions, has recently received attention as a basis for the description and explication of naturallanguage.
We show in this paper that the number-name system of Chinese is generated neitherby this formalism nor by any other equivalent or weaker ones, suggesting that such a taskmight require the use of the more powerful Indexed Grammar formalism.
Given that our formalresults apply only to a proper subset of Chinese, we extensively discuss the issue of whetherthey have any implications for the whole of that natural language.
We conclude that our re-sults bear directly either on the syntax of Chinese or on the interface between Chinese and thecognitive component responsible for arithmetic reasoning.
Consequently, either Tree AdjoiningGrammars, as currently defined, fail to generate the class of natural languages in a way thatdiscriminates between linguistically warranted sublanguages, or formalisms with generativepower equivalent to Tree Adjoining Grammar cannot serve as a basis for the interface betweenthe human linguistic and mathematical faculties.1.
IntroductionIn recent years, we have seen in the linguistic literature a number of arguments;e.g., Culy (1985), Huybregts (1984), Shieber (1985), which purport to demonstratethat the class of N(atural) L(anguage)s i not generated by formalisms of C(ontext)-F(ree) power.
In the context of NLs, little has been said regarding the generativeinadequacy of formalisms uch as single- or multiple-component T(ree) A(djoining)G(rammar)s (Joshi 1985, 1987), H(ead) G(rammar)s (Pollard 1984; Roach 1987), L(inear)I(ndexed) G(rammar)s (Gazdar 1988), or Combinatory Categorial Grammars (Steed-man 1985, 1987).
These formalisms are among the so-called Mildly C(ontext)-S(ensitive)G(rammar)s since they are non-CF; i.e., strictly CS, but only to a limited extent.
Morewill be said about these grammars and their object languages below.Notable exceptions to the trend of demonstrating only non-context-freeness areKac (1987) for English and Manaster-Ramer (1987a) for Dutch and German.
In additionto demonstrating on-context-freeness, both these studies argue that the constructionsused for their respective argumentations can serve as a basis for demonstrating thatthe NLs in question are generated neither by TAGs nor by HGs.
However, theseconstructions rely crucially on coordination, and our current understanding of theproperties of coordination is far from satisfactory.
In this paper we show that thenumber-name system of Chinese, specifically of the Mandarin dialect, is neither asingle- nor a multiple-component TAL, 1 raising doubts about whether it could beDepartment of Cognitive and Linguistic Sciences, Providence, RI 029121 Henceforth we use the acronym TAL to refer uniquely to single component Tree Adjoining Language,and MCTAL to refer to Multiple Component TAL.
(Likewise TAG and MCTAG, mutatis mutandis).
(~) 1991 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 3considered a Mildly CSL at all.
Our argument relies in no way on overt coordinationoperators.In Section 2 we present an argument originally proposed in Zwicky (1963) whereinhe showed that the English naming system for cardinal numbers is a non-CFL.
Wediscuss possible objections to his claims.
Some Chinese data are presented in Section3.
In Section 4 we deal with a few Mildly CS formalisms and show that the Chinesenumber-name system (henceforth N(umeric) C(hinese)) is a non-TAL.
In Section 5,we discuss additional grammar formalisms and show that NC is not a M(ultiple)C(omponent) TAL.
We also investigate if NC can be characterized as a Mildly CSL.We discuss the linguistic relevance of our formal results in Section 6.
Finally, Section7 presents the conclusions of this study.2.
Zwicky (1963) and Objections ThereuntoZwicky (1963) discusses ome constructions of names for cardinal numbers that arenot generated by a CFG.
The one he labels (1) resembles the structure of very largenumber-names in English (and other NLs):NTn(, NTn-1)... (, NT)(, N) (1)In this construction, N indicates a number between I and 999, T is an abbreviation forthousand, commas indicate an intonational pause, and everything within parenthesesis optional.
This construction could be characterized asfollows:(i) Given a system in English, for example, where thousand is used as thelargest single word for a number, million would be represented asthousand thousand, (Amer.)
billion as thousand thousand thousand, (Amer.
)trillion as thousand thousand thousand thousand, etc., ad infinitum.
(ii) In a system like (i), larger clusters of thousand must precede smallerclusters of thousand in the same manner that decillion must precedetrillion, which must precede million, which must precede thousand in thestandard English number-name system using single-words for numbersof higher values.Zwicky relates construction (1) to the formal anguage P:P = {xlx = bn(abn-1)... (ab2)(ab), where n = 1,2,3,...}He proceeds, inter alia, to prove that P is non-context-free.
A conclusion from his studyis that the sublanguage of English encompassing the names for cardinal numbers isstrictly context-sensitive.Although Zwicky's mathematical rgumentation is sound, room is left for someinvestigators tocast doubts on whether his claims bear in any significant way on NL.The empirical basis for Zwicky's argument rests largely on whether characteristics (i)and (ii) are indeed linguistically real.
There has been much controversy over the statusof these characteristics.
For example, Merrifield (1968, p. 91) states the following:In working with a language isolate such as a system for naming numbers,several things hould be kept in mind.In the first place, such a system differs from the larger grammar of which it isbut a segment in not being indefinitely recursive.
A grammar of a natural278Radzinski Chinese Number-Nameslanguage accounts for an infinite number of utterances; a grammar of numbernames apparently does not.
The latter is limited by the number of linguisticprimitives of the sort 'billions,' trillions,' 'quadrillions,' etc., which it includes.And though a mathematician is presumably able to write down in mathematicalnotation an infinitely large set of numbers, when he attempts to give names tothe members of the set in a natural anguage, he is limited by the number ofprimitives at his disposal.Greenberg (1978, p. 253) expresses Merrifield's assertion as the generalization that,"every language has a numeral  system of finite scope."
Greenberg then proceeds toclaim that the largest expressible natural number  in American English is 1036-1 "as-suming that, as in most dictionaries of AMERICAN ENGLISH, the lexical item withthe highest numerical value is 'decillion'.
"2Thus, Merrifield and Greenberg take the view that there is an upper  limit onlinguistically expressible number-names.
Hence, by this view, characteristic (i) appearsnot to be linguistically warranted.
Hurford (1975, p. 4) suggests otherwise:Now it can be argued that the class of number expressions in any givenlanguage is infinite.
Intuitions of language users differ on the matter of whetherthe set of number expressions in their language is infinite.
The crux of the matteris the question whether the names for very high numbers are in fact wellformed.In English, for example, the expression two billion billion, five hundred and five maybe felt by some speakers to be quite wellformed, though of course unlikely to beobserved, whereas other speakers may object hat it is not wellformed.Accordingly, characteristic (i) is linguistically warranted for at least some speakers.Hurford (ibid.)
takes in fact this position:It will become obvious as we proceed that the particular systematiccharacteristics which are evident in natural anguage number-name systems tendto project he existence of infinite sets of number-names and a higher limit to thevalue of wellformed number-names can only be stated in a fairly ad hoc arbitrarymanner.Epstein (1978, p. 123) contests this claim by arguing:Contrary to what Hurford claims, there are a finite number of these \[numericalexpressions in English\].
Ten to the trillionth power, for example, has nocorresponding counting expression.Hurford (1979, p. 42) responds:This is a misconception.
It would be similarly wrong to assert hat there is nosingle English sentence giving the full names, addresses, heights, weights, andIQ's of all UK citizens at midnight on March 1st, 1978.
Such a sentence would beimpossibly long to utter, but that is not a restriction which need be stated as partof English grammar, or indeed of general linguistic theory.
If the highest-valuednumber word in your vocabulary is trillion, and you want to express highernumbers, you just string together enough trillions to get you there.
Nobody, as a2 Incidentally, Merriarn-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language (in theFifteenth Edition of Encyclopedia Britannica) has a table on p. 1549 labeled "DENOMINATIONS ABOVEONE MILLION."
This table contains entries up to 'centillion,' which happens to be 103o3 in theAmerican system and 1036 in the British one.
The number 1036 is expressed in the American system as'undecillion.
'279Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 3matter of performance could possibly utter enough trillions in sequence to makea counting expression expressing ten to the trillionth power, but no grammaticaltheory need concern itself with this fact.Whi le we ful ly agree with Hur ford  on this matter, the contr ived nature  of "strung-together" tri l l ions or thousands or any other s ingle-word number -name seems to leadsome invest igators into rejecting its empir ical  val id i ty in English.
For example,  Brain-erd (1971, p. 208) ment ions  the fol lowing:The collection of numerical expressions in most languages, as in English, arebasically finite.
Thus in English we must ultimately coin new 'illions' if we are totranscend our \[finite\] system of number names.
And where are these to comefrom when we have run out of Latin prototypes?
3 In some languages there are,however, purely linguistic devices which allow for an infinitude of numericalexpressions.
For example, in Chinese, wan is used for 104 and wan wan for 108 .Presumably we can continue ad infinitum, wan wan wan 1012, wan wan wan wan1016 , etc.Thus, whi le the l inguistic status of strung-together number -names  in Engl ish mightbe quest ionable,  Brainerd suggests on the basis of empir ical  evidence that this is notso in Chinese.
Characteristic (i) appears then to be l inguist ical ly war ranted  in at leastone NL, current ly  the most  wide ly  nat ively  spoken one.
4 In the next section, we take alook at some more data on number -names  in Chinese.
This wil l  help us to support  ourconclus ion regarding the l inguist ic reality of characteristic (i) as wel l  as to determinethe empir ical  status of characteristic (ii).
Furthermore,  the data wil l  serve as a basisfor the formal a rguments  to be presented in Sections 4 and  5.
In Section 6, we shallreturn to discuss the l inguist ic status of characteristic (ii).3.
Data 5The number -name in Chinese for '10,000' is wan.
The number -name for '100,000,000' iseither wan wan or yi.
6 Contrary  to Brainerd's  (1971) presumpt ion ,  some nat ive speakersf ind longer number -names  such as wan wan wan for 1012 or wan wan wan wan for 1016awkward  due to the existence of the numer ica l ly  h igher -va lued s ingle-word number -3 Alexis Manaster-Ramer (p.c.)
has provided an answer to this question: These are to come fromindefinite iteration.
In other words, once we have reached the limit of Latin prototypes, we can stillform new number-names by stringing together Latin prototypes word-internaUy.
In fact, such anumber-word-formation pr cess would be a morphological nalogue of (i) at the single-word level.4 We also find the following claims in the literature: (a) Menninger (1969, p. 129) reports: "The Gothicword for 'hundred'... is not hund but is represented by two full word forms: taihun-taihund, 'a ten oftens,' in which the grouping 'ten' is counted."
Nevertheless, since Gothic is dead, our knowledge of itis limited to a finite nonproductive corpus of items.
From this one example, we cannot conclude thatthe Gothic cardinal number-name system permitted an indefinite amount of concatenations of numbernames.
(b) Brainerd (1967, p. 43) reports: (due to Gr.
C. Moisil) "It has been suggested that by using theexpressions milioane de milioane, milioane de milioane de milioane, etc.
a name can be given for everynatural number \[in Rumanian\]."
Strung-together number-names in Rumanian sound less awkwarddue, most likely, to the phonetically realized separator de between the single-words.
Yet, while suchexpressions sound fine, Rumanian has no direct analogue of Chinese's wan wan, in the sense of acommonly-used strung-together number-name.
As will be shown in Section 3, wan wan is a perfectlycommon and natural name for 108 in Chinese.5 For elaborations on Chinese names for cardinal numbers beyond what we present here, see, forexample, Chao (1968, pp.
567-575) or Henne et al (1977, pp.
239-242).
For grammars generatingChinese number-names, see Brainerd (1966a) and Brainerd and Peng (1968).
For a historical survey, seeNeedham (1959, pp.
1-90).6 When used as the number-name for '100,000,000,' yi is usually pronounced in the fourth tone.
If usedas the number-name for '1,' it is pronounced in the first tone.280Radzinski Chinese Number-Namesname yi.
Thus, 1012 is more  natura l ly  expressed as wan y i  and 1016, as yi  yi.
Yet thereexists a s ing le -word  number -name wi th  a h igher  numer ica l  va lue than yi.
This s ingle-word  is zhao, meaning  1012, i.e., Amer.  '
tr i l l ion. '
This number -name appears  to be thenumer ica l ly  h ighest -va lued  s ing le -word  number -name in use in the modern  language.
7The most  natura l  way  of l inguist ica l ly  express ing a number  exponent ia l ly  greater  than' t r i l l i on ' - -as  "natura l"  as one gets w i th  such h igh numbers - - i s  by  st r ing ing togetherinstances of zhao.
This is the same tool used for express ing 108 as wan wan,  whichis, as prev ious ly  ment ioned,  a f requent ly  used synonym for yi.
Thus, the unboundedst r ing ing- together  of instances of zhao is s imp ly  an extended instant iat ion of a methodf requent ly  used in Ch inese for express ing a more  common lower -va lued  number .Examples  (a) and (b) be low are we l l - fo rmed Chinese number -names ,  whi le  exam-ple (c) is not: 8(a) wu zhao zhao wu zhaofive trillion trillion five trillion(i.e.
5,000,000,000,000,005,000,000,000)(b) wu zhao zhao zhao zhao zhao wu zhao zhaofive trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion five trillion trillionzhao zhao wu zhao zhao zhao wu zhao zhaotrillion trillion five trillion trillion trillion five trillion trillionwu zhaofive trillion(c) *wu zhao zhao wu zhao zhao zhaofive trillion trillion five trillion trillion trillionSimilarly, example  (d) is we l l - fo rmed,  whi le  (e) is not.
Both of these are examples  ofnumber -names  conta in ing adjacent  ' co lumns '  in wh ich  the number  of instances of zhaoin one of the ' co lumns '  is ne i ther  the predecessor  nor  the successor of the number  ofinstances of zhao in the other  co lumn:(d) wu zhao zhao zhao zhao wu zhao zhaofive trillion trillion trillion trillion five trillion trillion(e) *wu zhao zhao wu zhao zhao wu zhao zhaofive trillion trillion five trillion trillion five trillion trillionzhao zhaotrillion trillionThe we l l - fo rmed number -names  that we  have seen all fo l low a pat tern  in wh ich  largerc lusters of zhao precede,  f rom left to r ight,  smal ler  c lusters of zhao, whi le  the i l l - formednumber -names  do  not  adhere  to such a requi rement .
A l l  the we l l - fo rmed number -7 Needham (1959, p. 87) (also reproduced in Brainerd (1966a, p. 42)), gives a list of single-wordnumber-names up to 1044.
Yet al those beyond zhao are extremely archaic and are most likely not partof the vocabulary of a present-day native speaker.8 In all of our examples, we omit possible instances of ling.
This is a morpheme with numerousmeanings--as is not uncommon in Chinese---including 'zero; 'remainder,' and, when used in betweenother morphemes in a number-name, we could say it serves as a type of conjunction.
It is used in caseof a gap of more than one decimal order within a number-name.
Yet, if there is more than one suchgap in a number-name, generally only one ling is used and this is in place of the rightmost gap.Number-names for multiples of "10,' as are all of our examples, generally, though not necessarily, lacksuch use of ling.
In any case, its use would not affect in any significant way the formal argumentationto be presented in Sections 4 and 5.
(On the semantic evolution of ling, see Needham (1959, pp.
16-17)).281Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 3names composed only of instances of wu and zhao form the set J:J = {wu zhao kl wu zhaok2..,  wu zhaoknlkl  > k2 > .
.
.
> kn > 0}.This clearly lends empirical support to characteristics (i) and (ii) of Section 2.
Yet,whether characteristic (ii) is a consequence of a linguistic constraint or of some othertype of constraint is a question we leave open till Section 6.4.
Numeric Chinese and Tree Adjoining LanguagesIn light of recent, and not so recent, definitions of languages lying between CFLsand CSLs, we are now capable of demonstrating that it is not only CFGs that failto generate Numeric Chinese, but even more powerful grammars as well.
We shallargue here that Numeric Chinese is not a TAL.
The weak equivalence of TAGs, amodified version of Head Grammars and Linear Indexed Grammars has been shownin Vijayashanker (1988), while the weak equivalence of these three formalisms andCombinatory Categorial Grammars has been shown in Weir (1988) and Weir and Joshi(1988).TAGs perform certain manipulative adjunction operations on tree structures.
HGsare similar to CFGs except hat they allow head-wrapping operations in addition to theusual concatenation operation used in CFGs.
LIGs are a restricted type of IGs, whichwere introduced by Aho (1968) as an extension of CFGs.
In addition to terminals andnonterminals, IGs also have indices, or flags, which can be used in rewrite operations.Their use may lead to the generation of non-CFLs.
LIGs restrict the way in whichindices may be used.
Combinatory Categorial Grammars are an extension of classicalCategorial Grammars.
The latter were introduced into the linguistic literature by Bar-Hillel (1953), based largely on the work of Lesniewski (1929) and Ajdukiewicz (1935)in the context of philosophical logic.
The classical Categorial Grammar formalism ischaracterized by the use of the combinatory operation of functional application, andis extensionally equivalent to the CF formalism.
Combinatory Categorial Grammarsare augmented with the combinatory operation of functional composition used in arestricted way.In addition to generating all CFLs, these four types of grammars generate non-CFLs such as  {anbncn}, {anbncndn}, and {WWIW E (a + b)*}.
They exclude, however,languages uch as {a"bnc"dne n } and others exhibiting a dependency of more than fourcolumns, and {WWWIW E (a + b)*} and other languages exhibiting more than a singlecopy.
Since these four formalisms have been proved to be weakly equivalent, i.e.
theygenerate the exact same stringsets, we will limit our discussion below to TAGs.We now proceed to prove that NC is not a TAL in the weak sense.
We begin byconsidering the following regular language R:R = {wu zhao + wu zhao + wu zhao + wu zhao + wu zhao + }Strings of R may be described as the concatenation of five columns, each columncomprising one instance of wu followed by one or more instances of zhao.
Let H --NC N R. Clearly,H = {wu zhao n wu zhao m wu zha J  wu zhao k wu zhao j In > m > I > k > j > 0}Strings of H may be described as the concatenation of five columns, each columncomprising one instance of wu followed by one or more instances of zhao and each282Radzinski Chinese Number-Namescolumn having more instances of zhao than any column to its right.
For notationalconvenience, we now define the homomorph ism h such that:h(wu) = ah(zhao)  = bLet L = h(H).
Clearly,L = {abnabmablabkab / \]n > m > l > k > j > O}Lemma 1L is not a TAL.ProofWe apply the pumping  lemma for TALs and arrive at a contradiction.
This pumpinglemma is given in Vijayashanker (1988, pp.
96-101) as Theorem 4.7:Pumping Lemma for TALsIf L is a TAL, then there is a constant n such that if z E L and Izl > n then z maybe written as z = UlVlWlV2uav3w2v4u3 with \[~)lWlV2V3W2V41 ~ n, \]VlV2?dB?d41 ~ 1 suchthat for all i > 0, UlV~WlVi2u2vi3w2?di4u 3 , L.It follows from this theorem that for any string in a TAL longer than a deter-mined constant for that TAL, the string has at most four pumpable  substrings.
Wenow demonstrate that some long strings of L require more than four pumpable  sub-strings in order to remain within L after pumping.
Assume L is a TAL.
Where n isthe constant referred to by the lemma, corresponding to our L, consider the stringz -= abn+4abn+3abn+2abn+lab n which is in L. Let us now number  the columns of z 1-5from left to right, where a column is an a followed by bs.
Since all strings of L containexactly five instances of a, VlV2vgv4 cannot contain as, else these could be pumped,yielding strings outside of L. Thus, VlV2V3V 4 must consist solely of bs.
Since there areat most four pumpable  substrings (Vl, v2, v3, and v4) and z comprises five columns, atleast one column of z will not contain a pumpable  substring.
We can now look at thefollowing two exhaustive cases:A.
A column c with no pumpable  substrings to the left of some column dwith at least one pumpable  substring.B.
A column c with no pumpable  substrings to the right of some column dwith at least one pumpable  substring.Case A.
Let c be column 1 and let vl, v2, v3, and v4 be in columns 2, 3, 4 and 5,respectively.
Let d be column 2.
It suffices to pump up once, i.e.
set i = 2, in order forcolumn 1 to cease being longer than column 2, a necessary condition for all strings inL.
As long as there is at least one pumpable  substring in some column d to the rightof c, any other instantiation of VlV2V3V 4 will yield a result in which a column will notbe longer than another column to its right when setting i = 2.Case B.
Let c be column 5 and let vl, v2, v3, and v 4 be in columns 1, 2, 3, and 4,respectively.
Let d be column 4.
Here pumping  up once or more, i.e.
setting i > 1,283Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 3will not suffice, because the newly created strings remain in L, since they meet thewell-formedness conditions of L: Each column contains more instances of b than anyone of the columns to its right.
What we need in this case is to resort to pumpingdown, i.e.
setting i = 0.
In such a case, column 5 will cease being shorter than column4, a necessary well-formedness condition for all strings in L. As long as there is at leastone pumpable substring in some column d to the left of c, any other instantiation ofVlV2VgV 4 will yield a result in which a column will not be longer than another columnto its right when i = 0.These two cases exhaust all possible pumpings of non-fixed positions.
Both lead tocontradictions.
Hence, the assumption that L is a TAL cannot be true.
9 ?Theorem 1NC is not a TAL.ProofL = h(NC N R).
R is an RL.
TALs are closed under intersection with regular languages(cf.
Theorem 3.6 in Vijayashanker (1988 pp.
76-77)) and under arbitrary homomor-phism (cf.
Corollary 4.1 in ibid., p. 94).
By Lemma 1, L is not a TAL.
Therefore, neitheris NC.
?5.
NC, ILs, MCTALs and Mildly CSLsAfter demonstrating in the previous section that NC is not a TAL, we are now facedwith the following question: What type of non-TAL is it?
Under the assumption thatthe only nonfinite phenomena in NC are strung-together number-names (of the typewe have investigated), we would conjecture it is included in the class of IndexedLanguages.
The following IG(H) generates H, NC's proper subset responsible in ourargument for NC's being a non-TAL: (our notation is a minor variant of the one usedby Hopcroft and Ullman 1979, pp.
389-390).IG(H)=({S,T,U,V,W,X,Z}, {wu, zhao},{f,g}, P, S) where P comprises:S --* Tg W --* WfT --~ Tf W --* Xf wu ZT --* Uf wu Z X --* XfU --* Uf X --* wu ZU ~ Vf wu Z Zf --* zhao ZV ---* Vf Zg ~ zhaoV --* Wf wu ZHowever, H is not the only proper subset of NC having the characteristic of morethan four columns.
We could just as well have intersected NC with a different regularlanguage containing more than five sequences of wu zhao +, thus yielding a proper9 Since our proof has made no use of the condition in Theorem 4.7 requiring the length of VlWlV2V3W2V4to be less than or equal to the constant n, perhaps even some weaker version of the pumping lemmafor Tree Adjoining Languages lacking that condition would suffice for our purposes.
In fact, such aversion, attributed to Vijayashanker, is mentioned in passing by Weir (1987, p. 5).
Furthermore, thepumping lemma for Head Languages, Theorem 45 in Roach (1987, pp.
321-325), lacks a condition ofthis sort (though added subsequently on p. 336).
We have nevertheless opted for Vijayashanker's (1988)Theorem 4.7 because of its succinctness and perspicuity.284Radzinski Chinese Number-Namessubset of NC with a number of columns equal to the number of wu zhao + sequencesin the intersected regular language.
If this number were fixed, then we could simplydefine more nonterminals and add more productions to IG(H) yielding a language of,say, 6, 275, or 109438 columns, all depending on the fixed number of columns we wishto have.
But since the number of columns in our construction is indefinite, such anIG would not suffice.
For a proper subset J of NC, with arbitrarily many columns asdescribed in Section 3, we need the following simpler IG(J):IG(J) = ({S,T,Z}, {wu, zhao}, {f, g}, P, S) where P comprises:S--* TgT--+ TfT --* Tf wuZT --+ wuZZf ~ zhao ZZg ~ zhaoAre there known formalisms that generate NC, but not the entire class of ILs (orsome non-ILs)?
We attempt o answer this question by first considering M(ultiple)C(omponent) TAGs and other similar formalisms.
MCTAGs have been discussed inthe literature; for example, in Joshi (1987, pp.
110-113), Joshi et al (1989, pp.
13-15),Vijayashanker t al.
(1987, pp.
106-107), and Weir (1987, pp.
30-33; 1988, pp.
31-39).These are grammars whose generative capacity exceeds that of TAGs, since adjunctionin MCTAGs is performed simultaneously on sequences of trees rather than on singletrees.
Pollard (1984, pp.
210-215) has defined a formalism called Generalized CFG.This formalism is an extension of CFG wherein the compositional operations in thegrammar's production set need not be limited to functions of concatenation r syn-categorematic insertion of terminals.
Kasami et al (1988, pp.
9-11) have shown thatGeneralized CFGs generate all the recursively enumerable s ts.
In addition, they havedefined a restricted Generalized CFG called M(ultiple) CFG, which is stronger thanHead Grammar.
(HG is a Generalized CFG whose compositional operations are re-stricted to those of CFG plus head-wrapping.)
Independent ofKasami et al's research,Vijayashanker t al.
(1987, pp.
108-111) and Weir (1988, pp.
90-110) have introduceda formalism called L(inear) C(ontext-)F(ree) R(ewriting) S(ystem)s, whose definitionturns out to be the same as that of MCFG.
The composition operations in LCFRSs, orMCFGs, are restricted to being linear and nonerasing.
In other words, they lack func-tions that 'copy,' erase,' or 'restructure' unbounded components of their arguments,and as such are 'size' preserving.
Weir (1988, pp.
101-106) has shown that the classesof stringlanguages generated by MCTAGs and LCFRSs are the same.
Given the equiv-alence of MCTALs, LCFRLs, and MCFLs, we focus our discussion below on MCTAGs,yet refer to LCFRSs and MCFGs if necessary or convenient.Manaster-Ramer (1987a, p. 233) has pointed out that "\[the MCTAG formalism\]can handle quintuple and higher counting dependencies, but it still cannot deal with... unbounded counting dependencies."
That is, this formalism generates languageswith a fixed number of columns, and not ones with an arbitrary number of them.
Thus,while MCTAGs generate H, they do not generate J.
Accordingly, Numeric Chinesecannot be accounted for by any MCTAG.
We now proceed to prove this claim.
Webegin by considering the regular language R':R' = {(wu zhao+) +}285Computat ional  Linguistics Volume 17, Number  3Str ings of R'  may be descr ibed  as the concatenat ion  of any  arb i t ra ry  non-zero  numberof co lumns ,  each co lumn compr is ing  one  ins tance  of wu fo l lowed by  one  or moreins tances  of zhao.
Let J = NC N R'.
Clearly, as presented  a l ready  in  Sect ion 3,J = {wu zhaoklwu zhaok2.
.
.wu  zhao kn I k l  > k2 > .
.
.
> kn > 0}.Str ings of J may  be descr ibed  as the concatenat ion  of any  arb i t ra ry  non-zero  numberof co lumns ,  each co lumn compr is ing  one  ins tance  of wu fo l lowed by  one  or moreins tances  of zhao, and each co lumn has  more  ins tances  of zhao than  any  co lumn toits r ight.
For  notat iona l  conven ience ,  let K = h(J), where  the homomorph ism h is asde f ined  prev ious ly  in  Sect ion 4.
Clearly,K = {abklabk2...  ab kn I k l  > k2 > .
.
.
> kn > 0}.Lemma 2K is not  a MCTAL.ProofWe app ly  a pumping  lemma for MCTALs  ar r iv ing  at a cont rad ic t ion .
A pumpinglemma for Mu l t ip le  CFLs is g iven  in  Kasami  et al (1988, pp.
18-20) as Lemma 3.4.
In  or-der  to ach ieve max imum ana logy  and  un i fo rmi ty  w i th  V i jayashanker ' s  (1988) pumpinglemma for TALs, we  rephrase  Kasami  et al's Lemma 3.4, mak ing  it app l i cab le  toMCTALs :  1?Pumping Lemma for MCTALsIf L is a MCTAL, then there are constants n and m such that if z E L and \]z I > nthen z may be written as z = UlVlWlSlU2V2W2S2U 3 .
.
.
UmVmWmSmUm+ 1 with~j=l  Ivjsjl > 1 such that for all i >__ 0, i i i i i i m bIlVlWlSlbI2V2W2S21"13 ?
?
,  blmldmWmSml,lm+l ~- L.10 In fact, Kasami et al's pumping lemma is weaker than ours.
Their Lemma 3.4 (p. 18) is phrased asfollows: For any ... mcfl L, if L is an infinite set then there exist some uj E T* \[where T is a finite set ofterminals\] (1 <_ j < m + 1) \[for a fixed m associated with L\], vj, wj, sj E T* (1 <_ j G m) which satisfym the following conditions: (1) ~ j= l  Ivjsj I > 0, (2) for any non-negative integer i,A i i i i i iZ l  = UlVlWlSl ld2V2W2S2U3.. .
UmVmWmSmUm+l E L.There is an essential quantificational difference between Lemma 3.4 and our lemma.
Lemma 3.4 claimsthat every infinite Multiple CFL has some strings, i.e.
at least one and maybe more, which satisfy thepumping conditions.
Such a lenLma suffices, for example, for proving the non-MCFness of a languagewith an indefinite amount of columns in which all columns are equal in length, since such a languagedoes not contain a single string with a fixed number of pumpable substrings.
\[See Lemma 3.5 in Kasamiet al (1988, p. 20).\] However, such a lemma is not strong enough to show that a language, such as K,with an indefinite amount of columns in which every column is longer than any column to its right, isnot an MCFL.
For example, the following string z E K, satisfies the pumping conditions of Lemrna 3.4:z = ab l??????
(n+2m)abn+2m- labn+2m-2.
.
,  abn+2m-(2m-1)ab nIf vl is in the leftmost column of z and we only pump vl, as allowed by the lemrna, then we stillremain in the language, for all i > 0.
Our lernma, on the other hand, claims that the pumpingconditions must be satisfied by a~ the strings of a MCTAL longer than a determined constant for thatMCTAU With our lemma, it is enough to find even one single string, longer than the constant, hatdoes not satisfy the pumping conditions, in order to prove, as we do below, that the languagecontaining that string is not a Multiple Component Tree Adjoining Language.Interestingly, it is not necessary for us to prove our version of the pumping lemma: Kasami et alhave already done so!
Their proof crucially depends on the following assumption (p. 19): "Let us286Radzinski Chinese Number-NamesIt fol lows from this lemma that, for any  str ing in a MCTAL that is longer than a de-termined constant n associated with this MCTAL, the str ing has at most  2m pumpab lesubstr ings,  where m is a fixed number  associated with the part icular MCTAL.
We nowdemonstrate  that some long str ings of K require more than 2m pumpab le  substr ingsin order to remain  wi th in  K after pumping .
Assume K is a MCTAL.
Where n and  mare the constants for K corresponding to those referred to by the lemma,  consider thestr ing z = abn+2mabn+2m-labn+2m-2.., abn+2m-(2m-1)abn which is in  K (since the numberof co lumns in str ings of K is not  necessari ly fixed).
Let us now number  the co lumnsof z 1 thru 2m + 1 from left to right.
The pumpab le  substr ings,  i.e.
vjsj for all j = 1to m, cannot  contain any  instances of a, since pumping  as wou ld  yield new str ingswith co lumns longer than co lumns to their left, co lumns horter than co lumns to theirright, co lumns equal  in length to other co lumns,  or two adjacent as.
None  of these arein K. Thus, the pumpab le  substr ings must  consist solely of bs.
The remainder  of thisproof is analogous to that of Lemma 1, mutatis mutandis.
?Theorem 2NC is not  a MCTAL.ProofK = h(NC A R').
R' is an RL.
MCFLs are closed under  intersect ion with regular lan-guages and  under  subst i tut ion \[cfo Theorem 3.9 in Kasami et al (1988, p. 21)\].
Homo-morph ism is s imply  a special case of subst itut ion.
MCFLs = MCTALs.
By Lemma 2,K is not a MCTAL.
Therefore, NC is not a MCTAL.
?We may now begin to answer  the quest ion posed at the outset of this section: NCis not  a MCTAL, but  still appears to be an IL.
11 We fail, however,  to f ind a wel l -studiedand attractive formal ism that wou ld  seem to generate NC wi thout  generat ing the entireclass of ILs (or some non-ILs)22 Now, we are faced with the fol lowing question: if NCconsider a derivation tree t of z E L such that Iz\] ~ q INf+l."
A consequence of this assumption is that zsatisfies the pumping conditions, hence there is at least one such string in any infinite MultipleContext-Free Language.
Yet, their z was chosen arbitrarily from the set of strings in L longer than adetermined constant for L (in their case  qINt+l).
Hence, all strings longer than that constant satisfy thepumping conditions.
Thus, in fact, Kasami et al proved implicitly something stronger than what theyhad claimed to prove.11 Kac (1987, p. 451) mentions: "It nonetheless remains to be seen what sort of increase in power over thatpossessed by these classes of grammars \[i.e.
HG and TAG\] is sufficient to handle respectivelysentences."
The issue is raised after noting that certain instances of the English respectively constructionmap on to the five-column language {bhanbmdd k I 2 ~ h ~ n ~ m ~ 1 ~ k} and to additionalmulticolumn languages without limit on the number of columns they contain.
An indirect consequenceof our last conclusion is that, given the close resemblance b tween Kac's five-column language and ourL, as well as, of course, between any of his other multicolumn languages and our correspondingsubsets of K, we can now suggest that the increase in power sought will have to be of the type thatallows for the generation ofnon-MCTALs without allowing for the generation of the entire class of ILs(or some non-ILs).12 Such a formalism might be of the type similar to an augmented version of Combinatory CategorialGrammar as proposed by Steedman (1985) and discussed in Weir (1988, pp.
128-131) (together withsuggested extensions to Linear Indexed Grammars) and Weir and Joshi (1988, p. 284).
There do exist, infact, two formalisms known to the author, which are restricted types of IGs, that generate thephenomena under discussion:a) If we make one simple change to the definition of our IG(J) so that Z is not a member of the set ofnonterminals, but rather forms a singleton of intermediates, then what we end up with is an R-grammar.R-grammars are discussed in Aho (1968, p. 670).
Only intermediates can consume indices and once anindex is consumed, no new indices can be generated by the intermediates.
Also, all productionsinvolving an index consumption must be right linear in form (as are such rules in our IG(J)).Nevertheless, neither Aho (1968) nor Aho (1969), wherein these restrictions on IG are also discussed,287Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 3is not  a MCTAL,  then is it M i ld ly  Context-Sensi t ive?
To answer  this, we  must  cons iderthe proper t ies  that make a CSL mi ld.
On this matter,  Joshi (1985, p. 225) writes:I would like to propose that the three properties1.
limited cross-serial dependencies,2.
constant growth, and3.
polynomial parsingroughly characterize a class of grammars (and associated languages) that are onlyslightly more powerful than context-free grammars (context-free languages).
Iwill call these mildly context-sensitive grammars (languages).Accord ingly ,  the entire class of MCTALs  is M i ld ly  CS, but  not  the ent ire class of ILs,which,  inter alia, inc ludes languages  that are non-constant  g rowth  such as a 2" .
We nowinvest igate if NC possesses the Mi ld ly  CS propert ies .Polynomial Parsing.
Since pars ing  is dependent  on a grammar  and we are notdea l ing  here wi th  a specif ic g rammar  but  rather  w i th  a language,  we  can on ly  cons iderpo lynomia l  recognit ion.
Weir  (1988, pp.
98-101) gives the fo l lowing theorem:Theorem 4.4.1 If L is a language generated by a grammar of some formalismthat is a LCFRS, then L can be recognized in polynomial time on a turingmachine.By Wei r ' s  Theorem 4.4.1, str ings in NC generated  by  a MCTAG are po lynomi -al ly recognizable.
We wi l l  now show that this is t rue for str ings in NC not  generatedby  a MCTAG.
Such str ings are prec ise ly  those that conta in an indef in i te amount  ofco lumns of s t rung- together  number -names ,  and the set of these str ings can be mappedto K via s imple  homomorph isms.
The fo l lowing trans i t ions of a T(wo-) H(ead)  F(inite)shows explicitly and unequivocally that the class of languages generated by such restricted IGs isindeed properly included within the class of ILs.
In other words, although not intuitively likely, it maystill be the case that the stringlanguage classes are equivalent.b) Fischer (1968) discusses Macro-like Grammars.
One type of these is the O(utside) I(n) Grammars,which Fischer proves to be weakly equivalent to IGs.
A particular restriction on the definition of OIGrammars yields Basic Grammars, whose class of object stringlanguages is properly contained in theclass of ILs.
This is because Basic Grammars generate only those languages that are generated both byOI Grammars and I(nside) O(ut) Grammars, i.e.
their intersection, and there are OI languages (i.e.
ILs)that are not IO languages.
A restriction on the definition of Basic Grammars yields Linear BasicGrammars.
Proper inclusion of the latter in the former is only conjectured.
The following rather simpleLinear Basic Grammar (and, of course, Basic Grammar) productions generate J (where the symbol 'A'refers to the empty string and the symbol '1' is a disjunction of right-hand sides of rules having acommon left-hand side):S ---+ F(wu zhao, k)F(x,y) --* F(xzhao, y) I F(xzhao, xy) I xyHowever, Fischer conjectures that the class of Linear Basic Languages does not include the class ofCFLs.
A formalism that does not generate all CFLs would, most likely though perhaps arguably, seemunattractive for our purposes.
Furthermore, although the class of Basic Languages does include theclass of CFLs, both the class of Basic Languages and the class of Linear Basic Languages are not closedunder inverse homomorphism and, as such, do not each form a full A(bstract) F(amily of) L(anguages).As Savitch (1989, p. 255) comments, "... in some circles \[being a full AFL\] invests the class \[oflanguages\] with a certain respectability."
Thus, again, a formalism whose class of object languages doesnot form a full AFL would, most likely though perhaps ubject to counterarguments, seem unattractivefor our purposes.
The other language classes discussed in this paper each form a full AFL.
(For moreon Macro-like Grammars, ee Fischer (1968).
)288Radzinski Chinese Number-NamesA(utomaton) efficiently accept exactly K in linear time (less than 2n), ipso facto, poly-nomial time:(q0,a,a,ql)(ql,&,b,q2)(q2,A,b,q2)(q2,A,#,qf)(q2,k,a,q3)(q3,b,b,q4)(q4,b,b,q4)(q4,b,a, q5)(q4,b,#,qf)(q5,b,A,q5)(q5,a,A,q3)A THFA consists of a finite control, an input tape, and two read-only heads that moveonly left to right.
It is started in state q0 with both heads on the tape's leftmost square.Transitions are of the form (qi, w, x, qj) where qi is the current state, w the string tobe read by head 1, x the string to be read by head 2, and q/' the state to enter.
We usethe symbol '&' to refer to the null string, i.e.
"do not read," and '#' as a right-edgemarker.
An input string is accepted iff one of the heads (or both) falls off the rightedge and enters the final state qf.13 Our THFA(K) simultaneously uses its two heads inorder to compare the number  of bs in every two adjacent columns.
It accepts a stringiff the string has no column whose length is greater than or equal to the length ofa column to its left.
THFAs for acceptance of actual NC strings will be analogous toTHFA(K).C(onstant) G(rowth).
Based on work by Aravind Joshi and by Bob Berwick, Weir(1988, p. 3) presents a definition of CG as foUows: TML is constant growth if there is a constant c0 and a finite set of constants C suchthat for all w c L where Iwl > Co there is a w' E L such that \[w I ~ \]w'\[ +c for somecEC.He also gives the following theorem: (ibid., pp.
96-97)Theorem 4.3.1 If L is a language generated by a grammar of some formalism thatis a LCFRS, then L is a semilinear language.CG is a consequence of semilinearity.
By Weir's Theorem 4.3.1, the set of strings inNC generated by a MCTAG is CG.
We show now that the set of strings in NC not" generated by a MCTAG is also CG, according to the Joshi-Berwick definition.
Such13 Our definition of a Two-Head Finite Automaton differs slightly from that given in Lewis andPapadimitriou (1981, pp.
306-307) wherein acceptance r quires both heads to simultaneously move offthe right end of the tape while entering adesignated final state.14 A similar definition is given in Berwick (1984, p. 198) and in Berwick and Weinberg (1984, p. 113).289Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 3strings are precisely those that contain an indefinite amount of columns of strung-together number-names.
To these, we can always add one more instance of the strung-together element, whether zhao, yi, wan, or what have you, immediately to the left ofthe leftmost instance of that element, yielding a wellformed Chinese number-name.Thus, the set of strings in NC not generated by a MCTAG can "grow" by a constantof 1.
Hence, by the Joshi-Berwick definition of CG, NC is CG.However, according to Alexis Manaster-Ramer (p.c.
), the Joshi-Berwick definitionof Constant Growth is flawed.
While the Joshi-Berwick definition excludes languagessuch as {a n I n is prime} from being CG, it nonetheless includes the language {b*a n I nis prime}, since strings in the latter can "grow" by any constant due to b*.
Yet, thesetwo languages are rather similar and one would not expect hem to differ in terms ofCG.
To avoid this state of affairs, Manaster-Ramer p oposes the following embellisheddefinition of Constant Growth:A language L over {al,... ,an} is Constant Growth iff there is a set C of n-tuplesof constants {(Cu,..., Cnl),..., (Clm .
.
.
.
.
Cnm)} , and for any string in L the numberof occurrences of the different letters can be increased by the constants of suchan n-tuple, respectively.
Moreover, for every Constant Growth language there is aconstant k such that any string containing at least k occurrences of a letter ai canbe increased by at least one such n-tuple which has a non-zero value for thecorresponding ci.Thus, if L is infinite and there is, in particular, no upper bound on the number of aisin its sentences, then there is a way of obtaining longer strings by means of increasingthe number of occurrences thereof (possibly, but not necessarily, in conjunction withthat of some other letter or letters).
According to this definition, {b*a n I n is prime}is not CG, since given a string with enough as in it, it no longer suffices to increasethe number of bs, as is possible under the Joshi-Berwick definition.
Likewise, underManaster-Ramer's definition, Numeric Chinese is not CG: Let c be the greatest of theconstants by which the number of zhaos may be increased.
Let p = max(k + 1, c + 1).Now consider the following string z in NC:z = wu zhaoPwu zhao  p -1  .
.
.
wu  zhaoBy the embellished efinition, if NC is CG then it must have some string with a greaternumber of wus and of zhaos than in z.
Now in order to increase the number of wus,one must at least create a new column of zhaos whose length must be at least p + 1.
Butthat would mean an increase by more than c, which is the greatest of the constants.There is, thus, no way of increasing the number of zhaos while both remaining in NCand satisfying Manaster-Ramer's definition of CG.
Hence, NC is not CG under theembellished efinition, but is under the Joshi-Berwick definition.However, as pointed out by David Weir (p.c.
), Manaster-Ramer's definition isalso flawed.
While it excludes both {a n I n is prime} and {b*a n I n is prime} frombeing Constant Growth, it nonetheless includes {a*b*a n I n is prime}, since in this lastlanguage, both the as as well as the bs, i.e.
all the members of its alphabet, can "grow"by any constant due to a'b*.
But here again, the three of these languages are rathersimilar and one would not expect hem to differ in terms of CG.
All this suggests thatperhaps these types of definitions will not lead us to capture the intuitive notion ofCG in its entirety.
While Manaster-Ramer's definition attempts to be as analogous aspossible to some definitions of semilinearity, it still does not model all and only thatwhich CG is intuitively meant o include.
1515 An anonymous referee has aptly indicated that the main intuition behind CG is the linear growth of290Radzinski Chinese Number-NamesLimited Cross-Serial Dependencies.
This property rests largely on how a grammarhandles some particular dependency.
Moreover, what is considered 'limited' may beopen to more than one interpretation.
Joshi et al (1989, p. 3) suggest hat the cross-serial dependencies in Dutch subordinate clauses, homomorphic to the single-copylanguage {WW I W E (a + b)* }, could be considered an instance of a limited cross-serial dependency, but not the language MIX, which consists of an equal number ofas, bs, and cs in any linear order.
The dependencies in NC are of multiple columnscorrelated in length.
These are considered Mildly CS, as MCTAGs capture them.
WhatMCTAGs fail to do is generate a language with such dependencies, such as NC, thatalso places no fixed limits on the number of columns in its strings.
We ask then whethera dependency that leads to an indefinite number of columns correlated in length is to beconsidered "limited" or not.
Since, as mentioned earlier, what is "limited" may be opento numerous interpretations, we leave this question unanswered for the time being.Thus, a grammar for NC will have the Mildly CS property of limited dependencies,in case a dependency between an indefinite number of columns correlated in lengthis to be considered limited.We conclude then that it is not entirely clear whether NC is Mildly CS, althoughintuitively it appears most likely not to be so.
While NC is polynomially recognizable,we can say nothing about polynomial-time parsing for this language, as this wouldrequire reference to a particular grammar generating the language.
It is constant-growthunder one known definition, but not so under a somewhat better embellished one.
Last,we cannot determine whether its dependencies of indefinite columns of correlatedlength are limited or not, lacking a straightforward and lucid definition for "limited.
"However, in contrast o what we can conclude regarding NC and the vague notion ofmild context-sensitivity, we do at least know for certain that NC is not a MCTAL.6.
The Linguistic Relevance of Our Formal ResultsIn the previous sections, we have shown that Numeric Chinese can be generatedneither by a single- nor a multiple-component TAG.
What are the implications ofthis for its proper superset Chinese, a natural anguage?
These are not immediatelyobvious.
After discussing Zwicky's (1963) argument, which, albeit weaker, resemblesour own due to the similarity between his language P and our language K, in a studywhich surveyed and refuted earlier arguments calling for the non-context-freeness ofNL, Pullum and Gazdar (1982, p. 502) mention:The interest of this argument \[i.e., Zwicky (1963)\] in the context of the study ofnatural languages i , however, greatly lessened by the fact that it deals with theinternal structure of elements of a representational system for mathematics.
Wewould maintain that knowledge of how to construct such number names (which,of course, has to be explicitly taught o children who speak English perfectlywell) is knowledge of mathematics rather than of language.However, simply "maintaining," with no further argumentation, that we are dealinghere with "knowledge of mathematics rather than of language," is far from clear.
Moreevidence is needed in order to sustain this claim.
We intend to show below that, inany case, maintaining this position resolves little.
'structures' (and not necessarily 'strings') and, therefore, any redefinition ofthis property would haveto reflect the structure-based intuition.291Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 3Our formal argumentation, as well as that of Zwicky's, relies crucially on char-acteristics (i) and (ii) discussed in Section 2.
These characteristics have been shownin Section 3 to hold for the Chinese number-name system.
The issue now is whetherthey hold because of some linguistic constraint or because of some other constraint,perhaps mathematical in nature.Let us assume, for the sake of argument, hat these characteristics, particularly(ii), are mathematical in nature.
In other words, the reason that larger clusters of zhaoprecede smaller ones is due to some constraint within the mathematical componentof the human cognitive faculty.
This would make little sense, however, since additionis commutative.
In other words, in purely arithmetical terms wu zhao zhao wu zhaois equivalent in value to wu zhao wu zhao zhao.
But while the former is empiricallyacceptable in the language, the latter is not.
Thus, the linear order constraint that largerclusters of zhao must precede smaller ones cannot be based on pure mathematics.If the nature of the constraint is mathematical in any way, it must be one thatrelates to the interface between the cognitive linguistic component and the cognitivemathematical one.
16 Since, for purposes of cognitive numerical computing, number-names must ultimately be translated somehow into some encoding of their particulararithmetic values, an NL-math interface is necessary.
Let us assume that the linearorder constraint applies in the interface.
Two possibilities then exist: the constraint iseither string-based or value-based.
We explore these below.String-based.
What we mean by this is the following: The syntax of some NL,in our case Chinese, generates cardinal number-names.
These are passed to the cog-nitive mathematical component for further computation, via the NL-math interface.In this interface, a test is performed on strings of type (i) to see that they adhere tocharacteristic (ii).
Yet, given our result from Section 5, an automaton with the powerof, or weaker than, a MCTAG will not be able to perform such a test, since it cannotdiscriminate between these strings and those of type (i) that do not adhere to charac-teristic (ii) (hence cannot accept J).
Our results, then, are directly translatable toapplynot to the "pure" syntax of Chinese, but rather to the interface between Chinese andmathematics.
We will have said then something substantially interesting about he in-terface between NL and mathematics, namely, that this interface must have tools thatare weakly more powerful than a MCTAG.Value-based.
Here again, the syntax generates cardinal number-names that arethen passed on to the cognitive math component via the NL-math interface.
However,in this case the interface performs a test not on the basis of substring length, but ratheron the basis of the numeric ontent of each column.
In other words, when encounteredwith a strung-together number-name, the interface calculates, ay right-to-left, he nu-meric value of each column and compares this value with the numeric value of itsadjacent left column.
The numeric value of columns must increase from right to left.However, in order to calculate the numeric value of a column, the interface must havethe capacity to compute xpressions such as a trillion raised to the power of n and savethe result for further comparison.
If a machine performs this task, as most Turing-likemachines do, by means of strings whose length is in direct proportion to the numericvalue they encode, then this case is essentially equivalent to a string-based test, asdiscussed earlier.
Yet, if the length of the encodings i not proportional to their value,16 In this paper, we do not use "interface" to refer necessarily to some 'psychologically (or neurologically)real' processing model, but rather to a model emulating cognitive competence (in the same way thatthe syntax-semantics nterface and syntax-phonology interface are understood).292Radzinski Chinese Number-Namesthen we cannot conclude that a machine with more power than a MCTAG must be nec-essary for the task.
Perhaps transducers weaker than, or incomparable with, MCTAGswould do.
Yet, are we to expect the interface to be capable of doing computationslike these?
If it can compute xY then it can, most likely, deal with many sophisticatedcomputations.
But if so, then how does it differ in any substantial way from the "pure"cognitive mathematical component (assumed to be Turing-equivalent)?
In other words,why would the interface need the power to perform multiple multiplications if themath component does this anyway?
We would expect he interface to be far weaker, ifpossible.
It is indeed possible for it to be weaker, if we assume the test is string-based.But then, our result regarding non-MCTALs holds again.Thus, if the linear order constraint applies in the NL-math interface, then thisinterface will either have to be more powerful than a MCTAG in terms of stringrecognition, or powerful enough to perform calculations that are complex in terms ofcomputing capacity.
Given the lack of parsimony in having an NL-math interface thatcan perform the same tasks that the cognitive mathematical component performs, weconclude that, if the test applies in the interface, this test must be string-based, forcingthe interface to be more powerful than, or at least incomparable with, a MCTAG.Another possibility exists: that the constraint is purely syntactic in nature.
If so,we encounter the problem created by what Manaster-Ramer (1988, p. 102) refers toas Ziff's Law: while, for instance, wu zhao wu zhao zhao is not a well-formed number-name, nothing blocks it from being some other well-formed proper name, such as thetitle of a book, for example.
Thus the grammar of Chinese can generate a string suchas wu zhao wu zhao zhao, albeit not as a number-name but still as some acceptableproper name that can function as a noun-phrase in a sentence.
If so, the intersection ofR or R' and Chinese is not H or J, respectively, but rather R or R', respectively.
Since Land K are not homomorphisms of R and R', respectively, an intersection-based proofwould fail to say much about the weak generative capacity of the whole of Chinese.That is, in the weak sense, we have not shown that Chinese is beyond the generativepower of a TAG or a MCTAG, although we have shown this to be true for its propersubset Numeric Chinese.The consequences of Ziff's Law are avoided, however, by invoking considerationsof classificatory capacity.
This notion was introduced in Manaster-Ramer (1987a, p. 238)and preliminarily defined there as "the measure of a formalism's ability \[to\] classify aset of strings (and substrings) and specify which ones are like which other ones."
InRadzinski (1990a, p. 122 and 1990b, pp.
85-86), we have further efined this definitionto apply to CFGs:Let some nonterminal in the grammar ultimately be rewritten only as a stringbelonging to some particular construction.
For example, if passive sentences areto be considered a construction i some NL ?, then let the CFG G(?)
include amember PASS in its set of nonterminal symbols which yields in one or more stepsall and only passive sentences of ?.
We say then that G(?)
classifies passives.According to the definitions of Linear Context-Free Rewriting Systems given in Weir(1988), (including CFGs, Tree Adjoining Grammars, Head Grammars, Linear IndexedGrammars, Combinatory Categorial Grammars, and Multiple Component TAGs) anyLCFRS contains a set of nonterminals.
We can thus extend our definition to apply toall LCFRSs, in addition to CFGs.
17 What we would wish to test then is whether any17 Also, as mentioned inRadzinski (1990a, p. 122 and 1990b, p. 94), there no doubt exist other means fordefining classification within CFGs.
This point applies to all other LCFRSs as well.
Rather than using a293Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 3LCFRS for Chinese can classify NC, whose strings clearly constitute a construction iChinese separate from other noun-phrases.
Such a test would fail, since, given ourformal results, an arbitrary MCTAG, or other LCFRS, G(Chinese) could not include anonterminal yielding all Chinese number-names in one or more steps.
Hence, if thelinear order constraint is purely syntactic in nature, then Chinese is a non-MCTAL ongrounds of classificatory capacity.No matter which position one takes with respect o where the linear order con-straint applies, interesting conclusions follow: either Chinese is not a Multiple Compo-nent Tree Adjoining Language by classificatory capacity considerations or the interface-language between Chinese and cognitive math, something we know little of, is notan MCTAL when viewed as a formal language.
In his "Topic ...
Comment" column,Pullum (1986, p. 410) once wondered:... neither the mathematics nor the facts \[discussed in Zwicky (1963)\] are indispute, yet the issue still seems hard to resolve .
.
.
.
We have to be taught \[theconstraint\] in math classes at school, and we do not acquire it with our language" per se.
On  odd dates I still think this is right, but on even dates I think theargument has been unjustly overlooked.
Zwicky thinks we \[i.e.
Pullum andGazdar\] were correct o dismiss it, but maybe he is wrong and it was the firstvalid argument that English is non-CF.
The problem here is that we are notentirely sure what is a fact about a language and what is a fact about the cultureassociated with it.Yet it is hard to believe that the constraint is explicitly taught in math classes atschool, since children rarely deal with numbers with such values.
Also, there is noreason to assume that wan wan is taught in school, given its natural and commonuse by Chinese native speakers, regardless of their educational level.
TM Moreover, thephenomenon is completely irrelevant o the culture associated with Chinese or withany other natural language exhibiting a similar behavior.
It is a constraint relatedeither to the "pure" syntax of Chinese or to the component interfacing between thissyntax and the cognitive faculty for arithmetic reasoning.
Both of these are hardlyculture-based.
19We end this section by presenting, for purposes of contrast, two mathematics-based formal arguments that are quite irrelevant o the study of natural language,although their proponents may have laid claims, or at least hinted, otherwise.
Thefirst of these is an argument against he context-freeness of English presented in Elster(1978, pp.
42-44) and refuted by Pullum and Gazdar (1982, pp.
479-481).
Elster basessingle nonterminal s a basis, classification can be achieved via a set of nonterminals or via someproduction rule that applies in all and only the derivations of a particular construction.
Thesedefinitions, however, would be merely similar alternative formalizations of the same intuitive notion.18 An anonymous referee has indicated that while this may be true for wan wan, forms such as zhao aresurely taught (originally) in school.
Yet, we believe that even if the single-word number-name zhao islearned explicitly only via formal education, its use within a strung-together number-name and thelinear order pattern exhibited by such a long number-name is not.
Rather, the constraints for formingstrung-together number-names u ing zhao are the same as those for forming long number-names u ingwan.
As mentioned in Section 3, the use of zhao instead of wan in long number-names results in betteracceptability, asthe former appears to be the highest valued number denoted by a single-word inmodern Chinese.19 It may very well be the case that the constraint could be shown to be a consequence of some otherindependent cognitive strategy, such as a version of Hurford's (1975) Packing Strategy, for example.This strategy for number-names suggests roughly that arithmetically higher-valued chunks belonghigher up in the tree than do the lower-valued ones, analogous to the way one packs a suitcase ofbooks: first the big fat heavy ones and then the lighter ones.
However, formal claims (withmathematical rigor) are made precisely in order to get a better understanding and give a betterdescription of what strategies are meant o account for informally.294Radzinski Chinese Number-Nameshis argument on sentences like the following:BI: The first two million numbers in the decimal expansion of 7r are ala2.., a2000000.B2: The first two million million numbers in the decimal expansion of 7r areala2...a2000000000000.2oBk: The first two (million) k numbers in the decimal expansion of 7r are ala2.., a2.106k.According to the pumping lemma for CFLs, any sufficiently long sentence of a CFLcan be extended by indefinite repetition of, at most, two subparts without violation ofgrammaticality.
The only possible pumpable substrings in sentences like Bk are withinthe cluster of millions and al ...an.
If we pump the substrings 'millionq' and "ar...at"up once, then we end up with a sentence like C:C: The \[first\] two millionk+q.., numbers in the decimal expansion of p are111 .
.
o a tar  .
.
.
a t .
.
.
a2.106kElster claims (p. 44) that C is not a grammatical sentence in English because:... the number 'two million k+q' must be the same as the number'2.10 6k q- t -- r + 1', i.e.
the same as the number of numbers in the decimalexpansion.
Note that this is a requirement ot of mathematics, but of linguistics,just as the lack of grammaticality of the sentence,D: the two largest animals in the zoo are a mouse,is a matter of linguistics, and not of mathematics ...But, according to Elster, in order for C to be "grammatical," the length of its decimalexpansion must be longer: 2.106(k+q) .
Thus, since there is a sufficiently long sentencein English that lacks, at most, two pumpable substrings, English is not CEAs Pullum and Gazdar (1982, pp.
480-481) claim, Elster is wrong since he is as-suming that English grammar equires, as seen from the ungrammaticality of D versusthe grammaticality of the B sentences above, that the number of entities listed in apredicate correspond to the number named in the subject.
Yet if D is ungrammati-cal, it is not because of such a requirement, but rather because of the number (i.e.,singular/plural) disagreement it exhibits.
If Elster were right, then the sentence "Thetwo largest animals in the zoo are Mickey, Minnie, and Donald" would be ungram-matical.
Yet this sentence is clearly grammatical, albeit infelicitous.
Elster is confusing20 The reproduction of this sentence in Pullum and Gazdar (1982, p. 479) lacks one instance of mi l l ion .Thus, Elster's argument becomes largely incomprehensible if read only there.
The version reproducedin Savitch et  a l .
(1987, p. 149) contains the same typographical error.
Also, notice that Elster'sacceptance of sentences of this sort with strung-together mi l l ions ,  indicates that he too is of the opinionthat strung-together number-names are empirically attested in English.295Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 3grammaticality with arithmetical felicity.
His argument, hus, bears little on naturallanguage.The second argument, his time not discussed by Pullum and Gazdar (1982), is onepresented in Brainerd (1966b, pp.
119-124).
Brainerd discusses "verbal expressions,"i.e.
number-names, for rational numbers of the following type:zero point three six five four six five three six five three etc.three point two seven seven two seven seven two seven seven etc.These number-names for repeated ecimals contain subparts of indefinite length thatare repeated ad infinitum.
However, given the periodicity of the repetition, the number,and hence its name, may be expressed by a convention requiring only a fixed amountof repetitions.
A convention using merely one repetition suffices to argue that the setcomprising the names for repeated ecimals constitutes a non-CFL (two repetitions: anon-TAL).
As Brainerd claims on p. 122:... it is easy to show that the language L(R) \[comprising the numeral names fornon-negative rational numbers in English\] possesses no context-free grammar.Indeed, such a language can be shown to be a non-CFL, via the strong pumping lemmafor Context-Free Languages.
Brainerd later writes on p. 124:It is perhaps not out of place to observe that if repeated ecimals (in theirEnglish verbal form) are a part of the natural language, then repeated ecimalsconstitute an example of a duplication-structure of arbitrary length in English.Thus, Brainerd suggests, albeit equivocally, that English, a natural language, is affectedby the non-context-freeness of its sub-language consisting of the names for rationalnumbers.
Yet, this could hardly have any basis whatsoever.
On grounds of weak gener-ative capacity, claiming that English is non-CF because it has "a duplication-structureof arbitrary length," is as absurd as claiming that the regular language {a*b*c*} is anon-CFL because it is a proper superset of the non-CFL {anbncn}.
Although pumpinga string in L(R), longer than some constant, in accordance with the conditions et forthby the strong pumping lemma for CFLs, yields a string outside of L(R), it neverthe-less yields one that is a well-formed number-name, albeit corresponding perhaps toan irrational number.
However, considerations of classificatory capacity will not helphere, since there is absolutely no linguistically based reason to assume that the set ofnames for rational numbers constitutes a construction distinct from names for othertypes of numbers.
Thus, as with Elster's argument, Brainerd's has little bearing onnatural anguage.
Contrary to these two arguments, our claims, as we have alreadyseen and discussed, definitely do bear either on the syntax of a natural language or onthe interface between that natural language and the cognitive mathematical f culty.7.
Conclusions?
We have shown that, when viewed as a formal anguage, the number-name system ofChinese is neither a single- nor a multiple-component Tree Adjoining Language, dueto its strung-together number-names of indefinite length.
As a consequence, it cannotbe generated by any Linear Context-Free Rewriting System, including Context-FreeGrammars, Head Grammars, Linear Indexed Grammars, or Combinatory CategorialGrammars.
It appears also not to be Mildly Context-Sensitive at all, notwithstanding its296Radzinski Chinese Number-Namesrecognition in linear time.
Our formal results relate directly either to the syntax properof Chinese or to the interface between that natural anguage, the most widely nativelyspoken one, and the mathematical component of the human cognitive endowment.Similar results hold, most likely, for other natural anguages, perhaps even for English.Consequently, it may be the case that Zwicky (1963) did expound after all, at least inspirit if not in letter, the first valid argument hat English is non-context-free.
Ona practical side, then, our study may help Geoff Pullum untangle himself from hisodd/even dates dilemma.
On a more theoretical side, we have discovered somethingquite interesting about the nature of human language and its relationship to numeralsystems.AcknowledgmentsThe author wishes to thank James Allen,David Blanc, Lindsey Eck, Joyce Friedman,Gerald Gazdar, David Gil, Doron Gill, JimHurford, Susumu Kuno, Tsippy Lotan,Alexis Manaster-Ramer, John O'Neil, MayaRadzinski, Walt Savitch, Mark Steedman,K.
Vijayashanker, David Weir, ArnoldZwicky, and anonymous referees for theirmany comments and suggestions; Fu Tanand Yuli Zhou for supplying nativejudgments of Chinese; Baruch Tercatin forsupplying native judgments of Rumanian;and Raffaella Zanuttini for her assistance inthe search of valuable sources ofinformation essential for this study.Responsibility for errors lies solely with theauthor.
This paper is a modified version ofChapter 4 of Radzinski (1990b).ReferencesAho, A.
(1969).
"Nested Stack Automata,"Journal of the ACM 16, 383-406.Aho, A.
(1968).
"Indexed Grammars - -  AnExtension of Context-Free Grammars,"Journal of the ACM 15, 647-671.Ajdukiewicz, K. (1935).
"Die syntaktischeKonnexit/it," Studia Philosophica 1, 1-27.Bar-Hillel, Y.
(1953).
"A Quasi-ArithmeticalNotation for Syntactic Description,"Language 29, 47-58 \[reprinted in Y.Bar-Hillel (1964).
Language and Information:Selected Essays on Their Theory andApplication, 61-74, Addison-Wesley,Reading, MA.\]Berwick, R. (1984).
"Strong GenerativeCapacity, Weak Generative Capacity, andModern Linguistic Theories,"Computational Linguistics 10, 189-202.Berwick, R.; and Weinberg, A.
(1984).
TheGrammatical Basis of Linguistic Performance:Language Use and Acquisition, The MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Brainerd, B.
(1971).
Introduction to theMathematics of Language Study, Elsevier,New York.Brainerd, B.
(1967).
"ATransformational-Generative Grammarfor Rumanian Numerical Expressions,"Cahiers de Linguistique Theorique tAppliquee 4, 35-45 \[reprinted in BrandtCorstius (1968), 41-52\].Brainerd, B.
(1966a).
"Two Grammars forChinese Number Names," CanadianJournal of Linguistics 12, 33-51.Brainerd, B.
(1966b).
"Grammars forNumber Names," Foundations of Language2, 109--133 \[revised version appears as"On the Syntax of Certain Classes ofNumerical Expressions," in BrandtCorstius (1968), 9-40\].Brainerd, B., and Peng, E (1968).
"ASyntactic Comparison of Chinese andJapanese Numerical Expressions," inBrandt Corstius (1968), 53-81.Brandt Corstius, H., ed.
(1968).
Grammars forNumber Names (Foundations of LanguageSupplementary Series Volume 7), Reidel,Dordrecht.Chao, Y.
(1968).
A Grammar of SpokenChinese, University of California Press,Berkeley, CA.Culy, C. (1985).
"The Complexity of theVocabulary of Bambara," Linguistics andPhilosophy 8, 345-351 \[Reprinted inSavitch et al (1987), 349-357\].Elster, J.
(1978).
Logic and Society:Contradictions and Possible Worlds, JohnWiley and Sons, New York.Epstein, S. (1978).
"Review of Hurford(1975)," Journal of Linguistics 14, 123-124.Fischer, M. (1968).
Grammars with Macro-likeProductions, Doctoral Dissertation,Harvard University \[appeared same yearin Mathematical Linguistics and AutomaticTranslation, Harvard UniversityComputation Laboratory Report NSF-22\].Gazdar, G. (1988).
"Applicability of IndexedGrammars to Natural Languages," InU.
Reyle and C. Rohrer, eds.
: NaturalLanguage Parsing and Linguistic Theories,69-94, Reidel, Dordrecht.297Computational Linguistics Volume 17, Number 3Greenberg, J.
(1978).
"Generalizations aboutNumeral Systems," in J. Greenberg, ed.
:Universals of Human Language: Volume 3 --Word Structure, 249-295, StanfordUniversity Press, Stanford, CA.Henne, H.; Rongen, O.; and Hansen, L.(1977).
A Handbook on Chinese LanguageStructure, Universitetsforlaget, Oslo.Hopcroft, J., and Ullman, J.
(1979).Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages,and Computation, Addison-Wesley,Reading, MA.Hurford, J.
(1979).
"Numerals and theHomogeneity of Description andExplanation," Lingua 48, 35-42.Hurford, J.
(1975).
The Linguistic Theory ofNumerals, Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, England.Huybregts, R. (1984).
"The WeakInadequacy of Context-Free PhraseStructure Grammars," in G. de Haan,M.
Trommelen, and W. Zonneveld, eds.
:Van Periferie naar Kern, 81-99, Foris,Dordrecht.Joshi, A.
(1987).
"An Introduction to TreeAdjoining Grammars," inManaster-Ramer (1987b), 87-114.Joshi, A.
(1985).
"Tree Adjoining Grammars:How Much Context-Sensitivity IsRequired to Provide ReasonableStructural Descriptions?
", in D. Dowty,L.
Karttunen, and A. Zwicky, eds.
: NaturalLanguage Parsing: Psychological,Computational and Theoretical Perspectives,206--250, Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, England.Joshi, A.; Vijayashanker, K.; and Weir, D.(1989).
"The Convergence of MildlyContext-Sensitive Grammar Formalisms,"University of Pennsylvania TechnicalReport No.
MS-CIS-89-14 LINC LAB 144\[to appear in S. Shieber and T.
Wasow(eds.
): The Processing of Linguistic Structure,The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA\].Kac, M. (1987).
"Surface Transitivity,Respectively Coordination andContext-Freeness," Natural Language andLinguistic Theory 5, 441-452.Kasami, T.; Seki, H.; and Fujii, M.
(1988).
"Generalized Context-Free Grammars,Multiple Context-Free Grammars andHead Grammars," Osaka UniversityTechnical Report, Toyonaka, Osaka.Lesniewski, St. (1929).
"Grundziige inesneuen Systems der Grundlagen derMathematik," Fundamenta Mathematicae14, 1-81.Lewis, H., and Papadimitriou, C. (1981).Elements of the Theory of Computation,Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.Manaster-Ramer, A.
(1988).
"Review ofSavitch et al (1987)," ComputationalLinguistics 14, 98-103.Manaster-Ramer, A.
(1987a).
"Dutch as aFormal Language," Linguistics andPhilosophy 10, 221-246.Manaster-Ramer, A. ed.
(1987b).Mathematics ofLanguage, John Benjamins,Amsterdam.Menninger, K. (1969).
Number Words andNumber Symbols: A Cultural History ofNumbers, The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Merrifield, W. (1968).
"Number Names inFour Languages of Mexico," in BrandtCorstius (1968), 91-102.Needham, J.
(with the collaboration ofWang Ling) (1959).
Science and Civilisationin China: Vol.
3 - -  Mathematics and theSciences of the Heavens and the Earth,Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,England.Pollard, C. (1984).
Generalized PhraseStructure Grammars, Head Grammars, andNatural Language, Doctoral Dissertation,Stanford University \[to be published byCambridge University Press, Cambridge,England\].Pullum, G. (1986).
"Footloose andContext-Free," Natural Language andLinguistic Theory 4, 409-414.Pullum, G., and Gazdar, G. (1982).
"NaturalLanguages and Context-Free Languages,"Linguistics and Philosophy 4, 471-504\[reprinted in Savitch et al (1987),138-182\].Radzinski, D. (1990a).
"UnboundedSyntactic Copying in Mandarin Chinese,"Linguistics and Philosophy 13, 113-127.Radzinski, D. (1990b).
Mathematics ofUnbounded Duplicative and ColumnarConstructions in Chinese, DoctoralDissertation, Harvard University,Cambridge, MA.Roach, K. (1987).
"Formal Properties ofHead Grammars," in Manaster-Ramer(1987b), 293-347.Savitch, W. (1989).
"A Formal Model forContext-Free Languages Augmented withReduplication," Computational Linguistics15, 250-261.Savitch, W.; Bach, E.; Marsh, W.; andSafran-Naveh, G., eds.
(1987).
The FormalComplexity of Natural Language, Reidel,Dordrecht.Shieber, S. (1985).
"Evidence against theContext-Freeness of Natural Language,"Linguistics and Philosophy 8, 333-343\[reprinted in Savitch et al (1987),320-334\].Steedman, M. (1987).
"Combinatory298Radzinski Chinese Number-NamesGrammars and Parasitic Gaps," NaturalLanguage and Linguistic Theory 5, 403--439.Steedman, M. (1985).
"Dependency andCoordination i  the Grammar of Dutchand English," Language 61,523-568.Vijayashanker, K. (1988).
A Study of TreeAdjoining Grammars, DoctoralDissertation, University of Pennsylvania,Technical Report No.
MS-CIS-88-03 LINCLAB 95.Vijayashanker, K.; Weir, D.; and Joshi, A.(1987).
"Characterizing StructuralDescriptions Produced by VariousGrammatical Formalisms," Proceedings ofthe 25th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, 104-111.Weir, D. (1988).
Characterizing MildlyContext-Sensitive Grammar Formalisms,Doctoral Dissertation, University ofPennsylvania, Technical Report No.MS-CIS-88-74 LINC LAB 132.Weir, D. (1987).
"From Context-FreeGrammars to Tree Adjoining Grammarsand Beyond," Dissertation Proposal,University of Pennsylvania, TechnicalReport No.
MS-CIS-87-42 LINC LAB 65.Weir, D., and Joshi, A.
(1988).
"CombinatoryCategorial Grammars: Generative Powerand Relationship to Linear Context-FreeRewriting Systems," Proceedings of the 26thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, 278-285.Zwicky, A.
(1963).
"Some Languages ThatAre Not Context-Free," Quarterly ProgressReport of the Research Laboratory ofElectronics, MIT 70, 290-293.299
