Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormMary P. Harper"Purdue UniversityIn this paper, logical form representations forpronouns, singular definite noun phrases (NPs),and singular indefinite NPs are developed.
These representations allow decisions about he precisemeaning of a sentence to be postponed until the required information becomes available.
Threecomputational constraints for this logical form are proposed: compactness, modularity, and formalconsistency.
Initially, NPs are represented using a composite representation for all allowablemeanings, conforming with the compactness constraint.
This representation is provided usingonly syntactic and sentence l vel information, consistent with the modularity constraint.
Whenan ambiguity can be resolved, the precise behavior is specified in a way compatible with the initialrepresentation, conforming with the formal consistency constraint.
The scope of this approach isdemonstrated byusing a wide variety of examples, and a computer implementation is described.Related approaches are also discussed.1.
IntroductionA goal of natural anguage research is to provide a computer model capable of gen-erating an internal representation for the meaning of each sentence processed.
Thebuilding of this representation can be approached in two ways.The first approach requires the generation of an unambiguous internal representa-tion for each sentence before attempting to represent subsequent sentences.
There are,however, several problems with this approach.
First, the enumeration and testing ofeach possible reading of an ambiguous entence to determine which is correct can re-quire significant computational resources.
Second, an application may not require theprecise meaning for a sentence; hence, determining a single meaning would be a wasteof resources.
Third, many times an ambiguous entence cannot be disambiguated untilinformation contained in subsequent sentences has been processed.Another approach, the one adopted in this paper, is to use an intermediate rep-resentation called logical form (LF) (Schubert and Pelletier 1984; Allen 1987; Harper1988) to avoid immediately committing to a single meaning of an ambiguous entence.LF partially specifies the meaning of a sentence based on syntactic and sentence-levelinformation, without considering the effects of pragmatics and context.
This partialspecification of meaning allows us to process additional sentences before further lim-iting the meaning of an ambiguous entence.
Later, as relevant information becomesavailable (from a context processing module), the intermediate representation f theambiguous entence can be incrementally updated.
This process can continue until allof the ambiguities are resolved and an unambiguous internal representation f the sen-tence is generated (although this is not a requirement of the approach).
The process ofmapping a sentence to an unambiguous internal representation is shown in Figure 1.Because LF is a component of a computer model for language comprehension,it must be designed with two goals in mind.
First, it should accurately model theSchool of Electrical Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907.?
1992 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4/SentenceProcet~ toUpdateLogical ForlmdContextualInformationFigure 1An architecture for language processing.linguistic behavior of language.
Second, it should be computationally tractable.
Infact, we have defined three constraints for using LF in a computational framework(Harper 1988, 1990).1.
Compactness Constraint: The compactness constraint, which capturesthe spirit of LF as presented by Allen (1987), is important in a computermodel of language comprehension because of the need to postponedecisions about ambiguity without large storage requirements.
LF shouldcompactly represent the underdetermined meaning of asentence--underdetermined in that ambiguities and anaphora re notresolved.
Ideally, LF should only require polynomial (in the number ofwords in a sentence) space.2, Modularity Constraint: The modularity constraint requires LF to beinitially computable from syntax and local (sentence-level) semanticsonly.
In particular, it should not be initially dependent on contextualinformation, which requires ignificantly more computational resourcesto extract.3.
Formal Consistency Constraint: The formal consistency constraintrequires that any update to the meaning of LF should be a refinement ofthe original meaning.
Initially, LF provides a composite representationfor a sentence.
However, as more information becomes available, themeaning of the sentence is incrementally updated (without contradictingthe composite meaning) until all ambiguity is resolved.
To obey theformal consistency constraint, it is important to explicitly detail thesyntax and semantics of the LF (see Appendix A for the syntax andsemantics of the LF we are about to describe) and to indicate how formalconsistency would be violated.420Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormIn the next section, we describe how LF has been used to represent quantifier scopeambiguity and how this representation conforms to our computational constraints.Then, we introduce our LF representations for pronouns, singular definite NPs, andsingular indefinite NPs, considering how to update each representation when new in-formation becomes available (though not how to determine that information).
We alsodiscuss an implementation that uses our representations and compare our approachwith related work.2.
Quantifier Scope Ambiguity in Logical FormQuantifier scope ambiguity has been handled by some researchers by using an inter-mediate scope-neutral LF (e.g., Hobbs 1983; Schubert and Pelletier 1984; Allen 1987)for the initial representation f sentences.
Hence, sentences like Someone loves everyoneare initially represented without committing to one particular meaning, as shown inExample 1.Example 1Someone loves everyone.Possible Meanings: 1.
~x VY (love x y)2.
Vy 3x (love x y)Scope-neutral Form: (love \[3x x\] \[Vy y\])Initially, in scope-neutral LF, the quantifiers are stored in the predicate argument-structure with no scoping preference indicated, hence the representation does notcommit to a specific meaning for the sentence; it is simply a compact way of express-ing the set of all possible readings.
Another type of scope-neutral form initially givesuniversal quantifiers cope over all existentials.
This solution provides a general read-ing that in many cases ubsumes readings where the existential is outside of the scopeof the universal.
However, if we are to handle NPs containing pronouns and sentenceswith verb phrase ellipsis, this solution is inadequate.An LF that avoids committing to a single meaning must be capable of being up-dated once information is available to limit the scoping possibilities.
There are a varietyof mechanisms for expressing scoping decisions.
For example, Schubert and Pelletier(1984) indicate quantifier scoping by extracting and linearly ordering the quantifiersto the left of the predicate-argument structure.
Allen (1987) indicates for each pairof quantifiers which one has scope over the other; a method that is not limited to alinear sequence of operators.
Finally, Creaney and McTear (1990) use constraints tolimit scope possibilities.
Hintikka (1979) has noted that the linear ordering of quan-tifiers is not sufficient o capture all possible meanings of a sentence when four ormore quantifiers occur in the sentence.
Consider a sentence with four quantifiers, twouniversals and two existentials: Every boyi wanted every girlj to introduce a friend of hisito a friend of hersj.
It should be possible for every boy to have scope over a friend of his,without having scope over a friend of hers.
Similarly, every girl could have scope over afriend of hers, but not a friend of his.
There is no way to express this with a linear quan-tifier scoping string, but Allen and Creaney and McTear have no trouble indicatingnonlinear scoping using their approaches.A scope-neutral LF compactly represents a sentence.
Since the size of the scope-neutral representation is directly proportional to the length of the sentence, it is con-sistent with the compactness constraint.
This representation also avoids committing to421Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4a single meaning by separating the process of making a scoping decision from the pro-cess of constructing the initial representation for a sentence and its constituents (thisseparation is consistent with the modularity constraint).
Later, when enough informa-tion becomes available to make a scoping decision, there are several different methodsfor indicating which quantifier has scope over the other.
These modifications committo one of the meanings encoded in the scope-neutral form and so are compatible withthe formal consistency constraint.There are other types of semantic ambiguities in addition to quantifier scope am-biguity that can be handled by using LE For example, the meanings of pronouns, sin-gular definite NPs, and singular indefinite NPs often cannot be determined withoutadditional contextual information.
Postponing decisions about the precise meaningsof sentences containing these types of constituents could be extremely useful, as thefollowing example illustrates: Every man showed a boy a picture of his mother.
The precisemeaning of the sentence cannot be specified until information is available to select hepronoun's antecedent and to determine the quantifier scoping.
The pronoun his canhave many different antecedents, including: every man, a boy, some entity introduced inother sentences, or some individual in the environment of the speaker or hearer.
Themeaning of his mother is ambiguous because it depends on the pronoun's antecedent.Also, a picture of his mother is ambiguous; its meaning cannot be determined until wedetermine the meaning of his mother and decide whether the universally quantifiedNP has scope over the indefinite.
Notice that quantifier scoping decisions are affectedby the choice of antecedent for his.
If every man is the antecedent then it must havescope over a picture of his.3.
Pronouns in Logical FormPronouns are a source of underspecification in a sentence: the antecedent of a pronouncannot be determined using syntactic information alone, but requires a combinationof syntactic, semantic, and contextual information.
We divide the process of determin-ing the meaning of a pronoun into two phases.
First, we provide the pronoun's LF,using only syntactic and sentence-level information.
This LF constrains the possibleantecedents o be those NPs that are consistent with this local information.
The LFis also a flag indicating that the sentence is underspecified because more than oneantecedent for the pronoun is possible.
Later, when the antecedent is determined, atask that often requires contextual information found in surrounding sentences, weprovide a way to update our LF to include this information.In the rest of this section, we discuss the linguistic behaviors of pronouns we wantto model, introduce their LF representation, discuss how that representation is updatedonce contextual information isolates antecedents for the pronouns, and describe howthe approach models verb phrase ellipsis (VPE).3.1 Pronouns: Linguistic BehaviorPronouns either have linguistic antecedents or refer to salient objects in the environ-ment of the speaker or hearer (deictic use).
Pronouns with linguistic antecedents canbe categorized in two ways: either their antecedents occur in the same sentence (in-trasentential reference 1)or in other sentences (intersentential reference).1 By reference, we do not mean that the pronoun denotes its linguistic antecedent; rather, that it adoptsthe behavior of its antecedent.422Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormWhen a pronoun's  intrasentential ntecedent is a universal NP, that pronoun takeson the behavior of the universal's variable.
Consider the sentence Fred showed every girlher picture.
Given that the antecedent for her is every girl, the pronoun adopts thebehavior of a variable bound by the universal quantifier of its antecedent, as shownin Example 2.Example 2Fred/showed every girly herj picture.Vx (if (girl x) (show Fred (x's picture) x))In contrast, if a pronoun has an intersentential ntecedent, hen that pronouncannot act like a bound variable, since quantifiers do not have scope across sentencesin English.
Consider the following two sentences: Fred likes everyone.
But, he doesn'treturn the sentiment.
The pronoun in the second sentence cannot be bound by thequantifier corresponding to everyone in the first sentence.
However, a quantified NP inone sentence can be the antecedent for a pronoun in another sentence, as in Fred likeseveryone.
But, they don't return the sentiment.
In this case, they adopts the discourse ntityfor the group of individuals that everyone quantifies over.
Webber (1978) discusseshow to construct discourse entities for nonanaphoric NPs in a sentence (both forquantified NPs and definite NPs that are quantified over) once that sentence has beendisambiguated.
A discourse entity is a designator for the entity or set of entities theNP evokes in the discourse model of the speaker or hearer.
If an NP in one sentence isthe antecedent for a pronoun in another, the pronoun is replaced with the antecedent'sdiscourse ntity.Pronouns have also been classified as bound variable pronouns or referential pro-nouns.
The antecedent for a bound variable pronoun occurs in the same sentence asthe pronoun and the meaning of the pronoun is represented as a variable boundby the operator associated with its antecedent.
In contrast, the meaning of a ref-erential pronoun is the discourse entity evoked by its antecedent.
The bound ver-sus referential dichotomy divides the world of pronouns differently than does theintrasentential-intersentential dichotomy.
Pronouns with intersentential ntecedentsare typically referential.
2 However, pronouns with intrasentential ntecedents can bebound or referential (Webber 1978; Reinhart 1983).The bound-referential  dichotomy doesn't  cover the entire range of behaviors possi-ble for pronouns.
There is another category of pronoun that Evans (1980) dubs E-typepronouns and that appears to be a bound variable, but on closer inspection is not.Donkey sentences (originally noticed by Geach \[1962\]) can be used to demonstratethis difficulty, for example: Every miner who owns a donkey beats it.
Given that every minerhas scope over a donkey, the indefinite cannot be referential and the existential opera-tor is blocked from binding the pronoun because of the scope island; quantified NPsembedded in a relative clause attached to an NP cannot bind pronouns outside of therelative clause environment.
3 However, a donkey can be the antecedent for the pronoun.2 The only exception are pronouns like those in paycheck sentences (first noticed by Kartunnen \[1969\]).Consider the sentence Fred gave his paycheck tohis wife.
George gave it to his mistress.
The pronoun it is notreferential.
For that matter, it is not bound.
The pronoun seems to take his paycheck as its antecedentwhere the pronoun is instantiated toa different individual than in the original sentence.3 This is related to the Complex NP Constraint introduced by Ross (1967), which prevents wh-movementout of a relative clause attached to an NP.423Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4Donkey sentences provide evidence that all of the following cannot be simultaneouslytrue (adapted from Heim \[1982, p. 102\]).1.
Indefinites hould be represented using existential quantifiers.2.
Indefinites obey the same scope-island restriction as universals.3.
Pronouns are either bound variables or referential.Many researchers have attacked one or more of these assumptions, but we prefer tomodify the third by adding an additional type of pronoun: pronouns that adopt thefunctional behavior of their antecedents.
The first two assumptions, together with ourmodification of the third, allows us to build a simpler LF for a sentence and alsohandle donkey sentences (as described in Section 5.2).Pronouns are a source of ambiguity in verb phrase ellipsis (VPE).
To signal a VPE,a full verb phrase (VP) is replaced with an auxiliary, as in the second sentence ofExample 3.
A sentence with VPE is called an elided sentence.
The index on Fred andhis indicates that they are co-referential.Example 3Trigger Sentence:Elided Sentence:Possible Meanings:Fred/loves his/wife.Georgej does too.1.
George loves Fred's wife.
(strict meaning)2.
George loves George's wife.
(sloppy meaning)The elided sentence has little meaning independent of the first sentence, called atrigger sentence.
Hence, before determining the meaning of the elided sentence, themeaning of the trigger sentence must be completely determined.
Even though theantecedent of the pronoun in the trigger sentence is Fred, the meaning of that pronounis still ambiguous because pronouns in a trigger VP can refer to a subject NP eitherdirectly or indirectly.
This example indicates that care is needed to design a pronounrepresentation capable of handling VPE since the representation must be compatiblewith the two behaviors of a pronoun whose antecedent is the syntactic subject of atrigger sentence.
It also demonstrates how the meaning assigned to the trigger VPlimits the possible meanings of the elided sentence.
Though the meaning of the elidedsentence is ambiguous, it cannot mean George loves some other person's wife (other thanFred's or George's).3.2 Pronouns: The Initial RepresentationBefore introducing our LF for pronouns, we briefly describe the LF for the rest ofa sentence.
A sentence is represented as a predicate-argument structure, with sub-jects lambda abstracted to handle VPE (following Sag \[1976\]; Williams \[1977\]; Webber\[1978\]; and Partee and Bach \[1981\]).
By lambda abstracting syntactic subjects in LF,a pronoun whose antecedent is a syntactic subject can refer to that subject in twodifferent ways, either directly by using a value depending on the type of the subjectNP or indirectly by using the subject's lambda variable.
The logical roles of all NPs ina sentence are indicated by position in LF (logical subject first, logical object second,logical indirect object hird, etc.).
Following Webber \[1978\], we represent universal NPsas universally quantified and restricted variables (as in 4a) and existentially quantifiedNPs as existentially quantified and restricted variables (as in 4b).
The colon betweenthe quantifier and its restriction expands differently depending on the type of thequantifier.424Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormExample 4a.
Sentence: Every man is happy.Representation: Vx: (man x) (happy x)Meaning: Vx (if (man x) (happy x))b.
Sentence: A man is happy.Representation: 3x: (man x) (happy x)Meaning: 3x (and (man x) (happy x))Quantifier scoping is handled in the same way as in Section 2.
Initially, quantifiersare placed in the predicate-argument structure for the sentence, except for subjects,which are necessarily abstracted.
Abstraction of a quantified subject does not implythat it must have scope over quantifiers placed in the lambda function correspondingto the VP.
Later, when information becomes available for making scoping decisions,quantifier scoping is indicated using a method similar to Allen's (1987) (described inSection 5.2).
Possessive NPs are represented as functions of the possessive nouns (fol-lowing Webber \[1978\]) and proper nouns as skolem constants (i.e., skolem functionswithout arguments).
These representations will be replaced with a general represen-tation for definite NPs in Section 4.The LF representation for a pronoun must be compatible with our computationalconstraints.
To be consistent with the modularity constraint, a pronoun's representationmust be generated without utilizing the contextual information eeded to select itsantecedent.
To obey the compactness and formal consistency constraints, a pronounmust be represented using a single representation that is consistent with the ways thepronoun can act given its position in a sentence.
To conform with these constraints,we represent a pronoun as a pronoun function in LE This representation f pronounsis similar in spirit to the representation of pronouns as unique skolem constants inCharniak and McDermott (1985).
Their representation allows the construction of basiclogical structure of the sentence to precede pronoun resolution, a division consistentwith our compactness and modularity constraints.
However, because a constant isincompatible with a variable, their pronoun representation is incompatible with abound variable meaning.A pronoun function is a composite representation reminiscent of a skolem function.Its role is to limit the range of possible antecedents for the pronoun without committingto one in particular.
Each pronoun function is assigned a unique name (supplied byadding a unique number to the pronoun to distinguish it from other pronouns), andits argument list is specified using only syntax and sentence-level semantics to avoidviolating the modularity constraint.A pronoun should be represented as a function of all the variables correspondingto quantified NPs that can affect its meaning (because they are representations forpos-sible antecedents or can affect he meanings of other nonquantified antecedents such asdefinite NPs).
By concentrating on variables of possible antecedents, we automaticallyinclude those variables that affect potential nonquantified antecedents.
The argumentlist should also contain the variables of lambda operators that have scope over theposition that the pronoun function fills in LF (in order to allow sloppy readings ofelided sentences).To provide an algorithm for automatically generating the LF for a pronoun, wemust develop amechanism for specifying its argument list.
This mechanism should notautomatically assign all of the variables associated with quantified NPs in the sentenceto the argument list of a pronoun function because, in English, some quantified NPsare syntactically incompatible antecedents for the pronoun.
Consider, for example,He loves every man, in which the antecedent for he cannot be every man.
To determine425Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4S1NP1DetIEveryNoun $2man NP2 VPIwhoAVerb N'P'3I F" , .saw Det NounI 1every boyVPV~rb NP4kicked Det NounI Ihis dogFigure 2Parse tree for Every man who saw every boy kicked his dog.which NPs can bind a pronoun in a sentence, we adapt Reinhart's (1983) c-command(or constituent-command), which is a relation on nodes in the sentence's parse tree.Node A c(constituent)-commands ode B iff the branching node ~1most immediately dominating A either dominates B or is immediatelydominated by a node a2 which dominates B, and a2 is of the samecategory type as al.
(Reinhart 1983, p. 23)To illustrate the concept of c-command, consider the parse tree for the sentence inExample 5, shown in Figure 2.Example 5Every man who saw every boy kicked his dog.In Figure 2, NP1 c-commands his, but NP2 and NP3 do not.
Reinhart claims that apronoun can be bound by an NP if and only if the NP c-commands the pronoun.Hence, every man who saw every boy can bind his, but every boy cannot.C-command is very useful for ruling out incorrect antecedents for pronouns, asillustrated by Example 5.
Unfortunately, it also makes some incorrect predictions.
Forexample, it does not allow every man's to bind him in Every man's mother loves himor each candidate to bind him in A friend of each candidate supported him, even thoughthe universal variables provide reasonable meanings for the pronouns.
The differencebetween Example 5 and the previous two sentences i  that in 5 the quantified NPin question is contained in a relative clause attached to an NP, whereas in the othertwo sentences they are not.
A quantified NP is prevented from binding any pronounoutside of the clause even though the NP containing it c-commands the pronoun.Hence, we adapt Reinhart's binding rule 4 to allow quantified NPs to bind a pronounif they c-command the pronoun or are embedded in another c-commanding NP butnot contained in a relative clause.4 We could have also adapted the binding constraints found in Bach and Partee (1980).426Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormArmed with this syntactic rule for determining which quantified NPs can have animpact on the meaning of a pronoun, we can now specify apronoun's representation.
Apronoun is represented asa uniquely named function of all the variables correspondingto operators that can have scope over it.
These operators include:?
any lambda operator that has scope over the pronoun function in LF,?
any nonsubject quantified variable corresponding toan NP that can bindthe pronoun given our modification of Reinhart's binding rule.Because a quantified subject's variable is abstracted by the sentence's lambda opera-tor, the lambda variable subsumes the quantified variable as the only subject-relatedvariable required in the argument list.
The lambda variable makes available both thedirect quantified variable meaning as well as the indirect lambda variable meaningsince we can choose to apply the quantified variable or not, depending on our need.Now that the initial representation for pronouns has been specified, consider aseries of examples, beginning with Example 6:Example 6Fred loves himself.Fred22, A(x)(love x (himselfl x))The subject Fred is represented asthe skolem constant Fred22 and the VP as the lambdafunction, &(x)(love x (himself1 x)).
To create a representation for the entire sentence, weapply the subject o the lambda function; this is indicated by placing the subject o theleft of the function.
Though it is more traditional to apply the term to the right of thefunction, we chose this method to make it easier to see the correspondence b tweenthe sentence and its representation (following Sag \[1976\]).
The logical subject fills thefirst slot after the predicate in the VP and the logical object fills the second.
Since thesentence in Example 6 contains no universal or indefinite NPs, himself is representedsimply as a pronoun function of the lambda variable x.
And as we mentioned previ-ously, the name of this function is created by concatenating a unique integer onto theend of the pronoun string (i.e., himselfl).In the next example, the representation f the pronoun is affected by universaland indefinite NPs in the sentence.Example 7Every man showed a boy his picture.Vx: (man x) x, My)(show y (picture-of (his2 y z)) \[3z: (boy z) z\])The syntactic subject of the sentence is universally quantified, the indirect object isexistentially quantified, and the logical direct object his picture is represented as afunction of the pronoun.
As discussed above, the subject's lambda variable subsumesthe universal variable; hence his is represented asa function of the subject's lambdavariable plus the existential variable for a boy.
The reader should note that there is noorder implied by quantifiers in our LF (following Allen \[1987\]) and so the quantifierscan be ordered in two different ways to provide two possible final meanings for thesentence.Next, consider Example 8.427Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4Example 8Fred believes he must speak to every woman.Fred22, )~(x)(believe x \[(he1 x), )~(z)(speak z (to \[Vy: (woman y) y\]))\])Although this sentence contains a universal NP, he is represented as a pronoun functionof the lambda variable x alone.
The pronoun function's argument list does not includethe variable y because every woman neither c-commands nor is embedded in an NPthat c-commands the pronoun.Finally, consider a sentence containing only pronouns and definite NPs.Example 9Fred showed his mother her picture.Fred22, Mx)(show x (picture-of (her1 x)) (mother-of (his2 x)))Both of the pronouns are represented as functions of the lambda variable x.3.3 Pronouns: Updating Logical FormWhen a pronoun's antecedent is known, 5 the LF containing it must be updated in away compatible with its initial representation (to conform with the formal consistencyconstraint).
To augment LF with antecedent information without creating an ill-formedLF (i.e., a LF with unbound variables), we assert equality statements in the lambdaenvironment containing the pronoun function and limit the types of updates allowed.A pronoun function constrains its possible antecedents, and depending on the typeand location of its antecedent, he pronoun function is equated with four differentvalues.Pronoun Update Cases:1.
If a universal or indefinite NP is the intrasentential antecedent for thepronoun, and its variable is an argument of the pronoun function (or isabstracted by a lambda operator whose variable is an argument of thefunction), then equate the pronoun function with that quantified variable.2.
If an NP represented as a function (i.e., a pronoun or definite) is theintrasentential antecedent for a pronoun, and its argument list iscompatible with that of the pronoun function (either immediately orafter more is known about its meaning), then equate the pronounfunction with that function.3.
If a syntactic subject of a sentence is the intrasentential antecedent forthe pronoun, and the lambda variable is an argument of the pronounfunction, then equate the pronoun function with either the subject'slambda variable or some other value depending on the subject's type.4.
If an NP in a different sentence or some nonlinguistic entity is theantecedent for the pronoun (and it is compatible in number and genderwith the pronoun), then equate the pronoun function with the discourseentity created for the antecedent.5 In this paper, we are not concerned with how the correct antecedent for a pronoun is determined.However, our LF provides useful hooks for an implementation to request information of either a useror a pronoun resolution module in order to resolve ambiguity.428Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormSome updates to logical form must be postponed until more is known about themeaning of a possible antecedent (as we will show in Section 4.3.2).Consider some examples of how LF is refined following pronoun resolution.
Sup-pose, for example, that we decide that the antecedent for his, in Example 7, is a boy,then the LF for the sentence is modified as follows:Example 10Every mani showed a boyj hisj picture.Vx: (man x) x, A(y)(and (show y (picture-of (his2 y z)) \[3z: (boy z) z\])(= (his2 y z) z))Simplification:Vx: (man x) x, A(y)(show y (picture-of z) \[3z: (boy z) z\])To indicate that the antecedent for his is a boy, the pronoun function (his2 yz) is equatedwith the existentially quantified variable z (by pronoun update case 1).
Notice that theequality statement is placed in the environment of the A(y) operator.
If we had placedit outside of this environment, he variable y would have been unbound.
The variablez is compatible with the pronoun's initial representation because we are limiting thefunction of y and z to be the identity function on z.
Once the equality statement isasserted, we can simplify the LF as shown above.
Notice that the meaning of thesentence is still underspecified since quantifier scoping has not been determined.Next, consider how the representation in Example 6 is augmented, given that theantecedent for himself is the subject Fred.Example 11Fred/loves himself/.Fred22, A(x)(and (love x (himselh x))(ora (= (himself1 x) x) (= (himself1 x) Fred22)))The pronoun can refer to the subject either directly or indirectly, so its function isequated with Fred22 (by pronoun update case 2) or x (by case 3), respectively.
Noticethat we use Ora as a meta-or to annotate our logical form with multiple possible mean-ings for the pronoun (outside of the logical system for mapping to truth value, seeAppendix A).
No simplification of the LF is possible until one of the alternatives ichosen, but by using this device we can at least compactly represent the ambiguousways that pronouns refer to syntactic subjects.
In fact, if there are n pronouns whoseantecedents are subjects, we can specify this ambiguity with O(n) updates, comparedwith providing 2 n different representations for the sentence.
This allows us to moreeasily put off decisions about the pronoun's intended meaning until we process therequired information, in contrast o an approach that uses an exponential amount ofmemory.Finally, consider how the LF in Example 9 is updated given that Fred is the an-tecedent of his and his mother is the antecedent for her.Example 12Fred/showed (his/mother)j herj picture.Fred22, A(x)(and (show x (picture-of (her1 x)) (mother-of (his2 x)))(ora (= (his2 x) x) (= (his2 x) Fred22))(= (her1 x) (mother-of (his2 x))))429Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4Possible Meanings:1.
Fred22, )~(x) (show x (picture-of (mother-of x)) (mother-of x))2.
Fred22, )~(x) (show x (picture-of (mother-of Fred22)) (mother-of Fred22))Note that (his2 x) is equated with Fred22 (by case 2) or x (by case 3) since it is compatiblewith those values.
Also (her1 x) is equated with (mother-of (his2 x)) (by case 2) since thefunctions are compatible.3.4 Pronouns and Verb Phrase EllipsisIn this section, we discuss how to handle VPE, using Example 3 to illustrate ourapproach.Example 3Trigger Sentence:Elided Sentence:Possible Meanings:Fred/loves his/wife.Georgej does too.1.
George loves Fred's wife.2.
George loves George's wife.
(strict meaning)(sloppy meaning)The trigger sentence in Example 3 is initially represented as shown below.Example 13Fred loves his wife.Fred22, ~(x)(love x (wife-of (his1 x)))Because the meaning of an elided VP is constrained by the meaning of the trigger VP,the trigger's meaning must be fixed before we provide the meaning of the elided VP.In particular, we must locate the antecedent for his; otherwise, the final meaning of thepronoun function in the trigger cannot limit the meaning of the pronoun in the elidedsentence.
Given that the antecedent for his is Fred, we augment the LF as shown in 14.Example 14Fred/loves hisi wife.Fred22, )~(x)(and (love x (wife-of (his1 x)))(ora (-- (his1 x) x) (= (his1 x) Fred22)))The initial representation for the elided sentence from Example 3 contains a placeholder for the missing VP, as shown below.Example 15George does too.George35, )~(y)(Dummy2 )To determine the intended meaning of the elided sentence, we must locate the triggersentence, select a single meaning for that sentence, and replace the dummy lambdafunction with the lambda function representing the trigger VP.
The trigger sentence'sVP, shown in Example 14, contains a meta-or of equality statements signalling anambiguity in the pronoun's meaning; hence, before providing the meaning of theelided VP, we must select a single meaning for the pronoun.The procedure for choosing between the two meanings is beyond the scope of thiswork; consequently, we will demonstrate hat for each choice, we are able to provide areasonable meaning for the elided sentence.
If the pronoun his refers indirectly to the430Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Formsubject of the trigger sentence, the first disjunct in 14 is selected.
This choice providesthe sloppy reading of the elided sentence, as shown below.Example 16Trigger Sentence Representation:Fred22, ;~(x)(and (love x (wife-of (his1 x))) (= (his1 x) x))Elided Sentence Representation:George35, ~(x)(and (love x (wife-of (his1 x))) (= (his1 x) x))On the other hand, if the pronoun his refers directly to Fred, the second disjunct ischosen, giving the strict reading of the elided sentence.Example 17Trigger Sentence Representation:Fred22, ;~(x)(and (love x (wife-of (hiSl x))) (= (his1 x) Fred22))Elided Sentence Representation:George35, ;~(x)(and (love x (wife-of (his1 x))) (-- (his1 x) Fred22))There is no way to determine whether a particular sentence will be a triggersentence until an elided sentence is processed, so all sentences are treated as poten-tial trigger sentences.
Later, when an elided sentence is detected, its trigger sentencemust be located and disambiguated.
Contextual information is needed to select riggersentences, to choose antecedents for pronouns, and to select a single meaning for apronoun function whose antecedent is a syntactic subject.We have described our LF representation f pronouns, which allows us to modelpronoun behaviors both in normal use and in VPE and is compatible with our com-putational constraints.
Next, we discuss the LF for singular definite NPs, which isslightly more complex than the logical form for pronouns.4.
Singular Definite NPs in LFIn this section, we develop an LF representation for singular definite NPs.
As withpronouns, we wish to obey our computational constraints while providing a model ofdefinite behavior.
First, we discuss the behaviors we wish to model.4.1 Definites: Linguistic BehaviorLike pronouns, definite NPs can be anaphoric.
Anaphoric definites either dependon linguistic antecedents or denote salient individuals in the environment of thespeaker/hearer.
An anaphoric definite's antecedent can be found in previous entencesas in Fredi saw (hisi cat)j.
The catj was chasing a mouse, or within the same sentence as inEvery boyi who loves (hisi cat)j takes care of the animalj.
In the first example, the antecedentfor the cat is his cat, found in the previous entence, hence, the cat adopts the discourseentity assigned to his cat.
In the second, the animal cannot ake a discourse ntity as itsmeaning because its antecedent is his cat, which does not denote a particular cat.Definites, unlike pronouns, can have a complex syntactic structure.
A definite NP'smeaning can be affected by embedded NPs.
While simple nonanaphoric definites (i.e.,they contain no embedded NPs) act like constants when included in sentences withuniversal NPs, as in Every boy loves the woman; definite NPs containing pronouns oftencannot be described as constants, as in Every boy loves his mother.
The meaning of hismother depends on how the pronoun is resolved.
If the antecedent for his is foundin another sentence, then his mother could be represented as a constant, but if every431Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4boy is the antecedent for his, then the universal quantifier corresponding to every boydistributes over his mother.
When a quantifier distributes over a definite, the definitedenotes different entities depending on the values assigned to the quantified variable.Any pronoun embedded in a definite NP can affect he definite's meaning: a possessivepronoun, one contained in a prepositional phrase (PP), or one contained in a relativeclause attached to the definite.A quantified possessive in a definite NP always distributes over the NP, preventingit from acting like a constant, as in Every man's mother loves him.
It can also bind anypronouns the definite NP c-commands.
Quantified NPs contained in a PP attached to adefinite NP can also distribute over the definite, as in The head of every public authority inNew York is rich, though the meaning of the definite NP is ambiguous.
If the universaldistributes over the head of every public authority in New York, then its denotation dependson which public authority is considered.
But if the universal does not distribute overthe definite, then there is one particular person who heads all of the public authorities.Our initial representation must be compatible with either possibility.Not all embedded quantified NPs can distribute over a definite.
Quantified NPsembedded in relative clauses attached to a definite NP are unable to distribute overthe definite.
This constraint prevents every boy from quantifying over the child who caresfor every man, so the definite can only denote one particular child.
Universal NPs thatcannot distribute over a definite NP are also unable to bind a pronoun outside thatphrase, as noted by May (1985) and Roberts (1987).We must also consider the behavior of definite NPs in VPE.
The meaning of adefinite NP is ambiguous whenever it contains a pronoun whose antecedent is thesubject of the sentence, 6 as in the following example.Example 18The postman/saw hisi dog.The policemanj did too.Possible Meanings: 1.
The policeman saw the postman's dog.2.
The policeman saw his own dog.
(strict reading)(sloppy reading)We must also provide a good representation for a definite subject, one that will ac-count for the differences between universal and definite subjects in VPE (compareExample 19 with 18).Example 19Every postman/saw hisi dog.Every policemanj did too.Possible Meanings: Every policeman saw his own dog.
(sloppy reading only)Universal quantifiers cannot bind across sentences, o the only possible meaning forthe elided sentence in 19 is the sloppy one.
However, definite subjects upport bothsloppy and strict meanings (as shown in 18).
If we choose a quantified variable torepresent a definite subject, we would have to allow its quantifier to bind acrosssentences.The meaning of a definite NP is affected by its structure and the meanings ofembedded NPs, as well as its potential anaphoric use.
In the remainder of this sec-tion, we introduce our LF representation for definites, describe ways to update this6 Or whenever it contains an embedded indefinite.
We consider sloppy indefinites inSection 5.3.432Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Formrepresentation ce ambiguity is resolved, and discuss how the representation is usedin VPE.4.2 Definite NPs: An Initial RepresentationWe represent definite NPs as functions of all of the variables that can affect theirmeanings.
This representation satisfies our constraints by combining the advantages ofdefinite descriptions (Russell 1971) (discussed in Section 7.2.1) with the functional no-tation we introduced to represent pronouns.
A definite function is assigned a uniquename (i.e., def with a unique integer subscript) to distinguish two occurrences of thesame definite NP, has a restriction consisting of a single predicate or a conjunction ofpredicates derived from information contained in the NP, and has a (possibly empty)list of arguments containing:?
any variables associated with lambda operators that have scope over it,?
any variables associated with nonsubject quantified NPs that could binda pronoun in that position,?
any quantified variables associated with embedded quantified NPs thatare not also embedded in a relative clause.
7To illustrate our representation for definite NPs, consider the initial representationof the following sentence.Example 20Every man showed a boy his picture.Vx: (man x) x, My)(show y ((defl y z) I (and (picture (defl y z))(possess (his2 y z) (defl y z))))\[3z: (boy z) z\])This representation is very similar to Example 7 except for the definite NP, his picture,which is represented as the function (defl y z).
The definite function's argument listconsists of the variables y and z, just like the pronoun his.
As in the representation fpronouns, we omit the variable x from the argument list because the lambda operatorfor y abstracts x, so y is the more general argument.
Anything that affects the meaningof the pronoun also affects the meaning of the definite.
The function's restriction is theconjunction of statements following the vertical bar.
The vertical bar in the functionserves two purposes: it is used to distinguish the function's definition (on the left) fromreferences to it (on the right), and it indicates that the function's restriction should beexpanded just like the restriction on an existential operator.This representation for definite NPs accounts for quantified NPs embedded ina definite.
There are three cases to consider.
The first is exemplified by Every man'smother loves him.
The NP every man's mother does not denote a single mother; every mandistributes over the definite noun phrase.
A possessive quantified NP embedded in adefinite NP always distributes over the definite.
Hence, its variable must be included inthe argument list of the definite function plus any other functions that the quantifiercan affect (e.g., the pronoun function for him).
Additionally, its quantifier must bemoved to indicate that it has scope over the function, as shown below.7 We should also add that a sententially attached PP with a quantified object can quantify over a definiteas well (e.g., In every car, the driver turned the steering wheel, in which the universal distributes over bothdefinites).433Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4Example 21Every man's mother loves him.Vx: (man x) ((defl x) I (and (mother (defl x)) (possess x'(defl x)))), &(y)(love y (him2 x y))The second case concerns quantified NPs contained in a relative clause attachedto a definite NP.
They cannot have scope over the definite so their variables are auto-matically excluded from the definite's argument list.
Furthermore, they cannot affectthe meaning of any other NP outside of the relative clause.
The following exampleuses these facts to represent The child who cares for every man visits him.
sExample 22The child who cares for every man visits him.
((defl) I (and (child (defl)) ((defl), &(x)(care x (for \[Vy: (man y) y\]))))), &(z)(visit z (him2 z))The third case concerns quantified objects of PPs attached to a definite NPo Thesequantified NPs optionally have scope over the definite, and so our representationmust be consistent with both possibilities.
To avoid making decisions about whether aquantified object of a PP attached to a definite distributes over the definite, we includeits variable in the function's argument list but leave the quantifier inside the function'srestriction.
This representation is shown below:Example 23The head of every public authority in New York is rich.
((defl x) I (head-of \[Vx: (and (public-authority x) (in x New York)) x\] (defl x))), ,\(y)(rich y)Possible Meanings:1.
((defl) I (head-of Vx: (and (public-authority x) (in x New York)) x (defl x))), )~(y)(rich y)2.
Vx: (and (public-authority x) (in x New York)) ((defl x) I (head-of x (defl x))), )~(y)(rich y))Notice that the quantifier is placed inside the restriction of defl, and the variable x isplaced in the argument list (for the semantics of such a function, see Appendix A).Later, after we decide whether or not the quantifier distributes over the definite, theinitial representation will be updated, as discussed in the next section.The decision about whether a quantified object of a PP attached to a definite dis-tributes over it cannot be made at the level of LF, though it has an impact on thequantifier's ability to bind pronouns (or anaphoric definites) in the sentence.
Quanti-fied objects of prepositions attached to a definite NP can bind pronouns in the sentenceonly when they distribute over the definite (Roberts 19879; May 1985).
For example, inThe secretary of every spy keeps an eye on him, the NP every spy can bind the pronoun himonly when it has scope over the definite NP, giving it a distributive reading.
However,we cannot make our representation f the pronoun him contingent on quantifier scop-ing decisions.
Hence, we must include the variable in the argument list of the pronoun,and add a constraint to the pronoun resolution module preventing a pronoun functionfrom being bound by a quantifier unless it distributes over the NP containing it.Because a definite function is initially a composite representation for all possiblemeanings of a definite NP, as appropriate information becomes available, we repeat-8 We do not provide an explicit representation f rwho; instead we represent it by borrowing the relativehead's representation.
In 22, who is represented asa definite function.
If the relative head wasquantified, we would have represented the relative pronoun using the quantified variable.9 Roberts modifies the definition of c-command toallow a PP-attached quantified NP to optionallyc-command the same NPs as the containing NP.434Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Formedly update the function, refining its range of possible meanings.
This process contin-ues until there is no longer any ambiguity in the intended meaning of the definite.
Inthe next section, we will discuss two methods for achieving this.4.3 Definite NPs: Two Ways to Update the Initial Representation4.3.1 Updating Anaphoric Definites.
If a definite is used anaphorically, it is equatedwith some value depending on its antecedent (as in the case of the pronoun function).For example, if the antecedent for a definite noun phrase occurs in another sentenceand they are compatible in number and gender, then we would equate the definitefunction with the antecedent's discourse ntity.
Otherwise, the update is not allowed.Antecedents for definite NPs can also be found in the same sentence.
For example,consider the initial representation f the following sentence.Example 24The owner of every dog is afraid of the animal.
((defl x) \[ (and (owner (defl x)) (of (defl x) \[Vx: (dog x) x\]))),A(y)(afraid y (of ((def2 x y) \[ (animal (def2 x y)))))Because the representation f every dog is formally consistent with the definite functionand additional definite constraints hold (e.g., number and gender agreement holds, theantecedent does not c-command the anaphoric definite, and the universal quantifierdistributes over the subject so it can bind the anaphoric definite), the definite functioncan be equated with the antecedent's representation, asshown in 25.Example 25(The owner of every dog/)/is afraid of the animal/Vx: (dog x) ((defl x) \[ (and (owner (defl x)) (of (defl x) x))),A(y)(and (afraid y (of ((def2 x y) \[ (animal (def2 x y)))) (= (def2 x y) x)))This example would be problematic for approaches using either definite descriptionsor definite quantifiers, which provide no mechanism for handling bound variable,anaphoric definites.4.3.2 Updating Structurally Complex Definites.
To determine the meaning of a struc-turally complex definite NP (i.e., an NP containing embedded pronouns and quanti-fied NPs), we must: 1) determine the meanings for all embedded NPs and 2) decidewhether quantifiers corresponding to embedded quantified NPs not contained in rel-ative clauses distribute over the definite.
Given this information, we can refine themeaning of a definite function using the behavior of definite descriptions (Russell1971) as our model.
Any definite description that does not contain variables boundby outside quantifiers acts like a constant because of the uniqueness assumption (seeSection 7.2.1 for a discussion of definite descriptions).
On the other hand, if a quan-tifier has scope over the definite description (either because an embedded quantifiedNP distributes over it or the antecedent for an embedded pronoun is quantified), itdenotes different individuals depending on the instantiation of that variable.Once we determine the meanings of the NPs contained in a definite function's re-striction and decide whether any extractable embedded quantifiers hould distributeover it, we examine the function's restriction to determine whether it contains any nec-essary arguments, i.e., variables bound by operators outside of the restriction.
Whenthe necessary arguments for a definite function are determined, its meaning can berefined in two different ways.
A definite function can be anaphoric only if it does not435Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4contain any necessary arguments.
Hence, if a definite function contains no necessaryarguments and is anaphoric, then it is equated with its antecedent (as in the previoussection).
However, if the definite function contains any necessary arguments or if itcontains no necessary arguments but is nonanaphoric, then we limit the argument listto precisely the necessary arguments.
By equating the original function with a newfunction over the necessary arguments, a process which we call argument simplifica-tion, we limit the initial composite representation f a nonanaphoric definite NP to itsfinal meaning.For example, consider the initial representation of the sentence in Example 20.Notice that defl is defined as a function of all of the variables that could potentiallycause it to change.
Given that the antecedent for his is a boy, the LF is updated asfollows.Example 26Every man showed a boyi hisi picture.Vx: (man x) x, My) (show y ((defl y z) I (and (picture (defl y))(possess (his2 y z) (def~ y z))(= (his2 y z) z)))\[~z: (boy z) z\])After (his2 y z) is replaced with the variable z, the only necessary argument for (defl y z)is z.
Since the restriction of the function is bound by an outside operator, the definitecannot be anaphoric.
Hence, to provide the final meaning of the definite, we applyargument simplification to replace the function (defl y z) with a more precise functionof z, as shown in Example 27.
Because of the meanings of equality and the vertical barin the restriction of the function, this representation is simplified, as shown below.Example 27Every man showed a boy/hisi picture.Vx: (man x) x, )~(y)(and (show y ((defl y z) I (and (picture (defl y z))(possess (his2 y z) (defl y z))(= (his2 y z) z)))\[~z: (boy z) zl)(= (defl y z) (def3 z)))Simplification:Vx: (man x) x, ),(y)(and (show y (def3 z) \[3z: (boy z) z\]) (picture (def3 z)) (possess z (def3 z)))Also consider how we update the initial representation f the sentence in Exam-ple 23.
If every public authority in New York distributes over the definite function, thenthe universal quantifier Vx is extracted from the restriction prior to applying argumentsimplification, as shown below.Example 28The head of every public authority in New York is rich.Vx: (and (public-authority x) (in x New York)) ((defl x) I (head-of x (defl x))), ,~(y)(rich y)Given this scoping decision, the variable x is free in the restriction of (defl x) andso the function must retain the argument.
On the other hand, if every public authorityin New York does not distribute over the function, then the quantifier emains in therestriction, as shown in 29.436Mary E Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormExample 29The head of every public authority in New York is rich.
((defl x) I (head-of \[Vx: (and (public-authority x) (in x New York)) x\] (deh x))), A(y)(rich y)Because the restriction of (defl x) contains no free variables, we must decide whetherthe definite is anaphoric or not.
Assuming it is not, argument simplification is appliedas shown below.Example 30The head of every public authority in New York is rich.
(and ((defl x) \[ (head-of \[Vx: (and (public-authority x) (in x New York)) x\] (defl x))),,~(y)(rich y)(-- (defl x) (def2)))Simplification:((def2) I (head-of \[Vx: (and (public-authority x) (in x New York)) x\] (def2))),A(y)(rich y)Hence, we can systematically derive both of the possible meanings for the definite NPthe head of every public authority.The availability of a definite NP as an antecedent for a pronoun depends onits intended meaning, which cannot be determined using only syntactic information.Hence, c-command oes not always correctly predict when definites are accessibleas antecedents for anaphoric expressions.
To determine the intended meaning of adefinite, we must determine the meanings of all embedded NPs and decide whetherany embedded quantified NPs distribute over the definite.
Consider Example 31.Example 31Fred told the teacher who discussed every student with his mother to examine her educationalhistory.
((defl) I (name (defl) Fred)),A(x)(tell x ((def2 x) I (and (teacher (def2 x))(def2 x), ,k(y)(discuss y \[V(z): (student z) z\](with ((def3 x y z) I(and (mother (def3 x y z))(possess (his4 x y z)(def3 x y z))))))))\[(def2 x), ,k(w)(examine w ((defs x w) \] (and (ed-history (defs x w))(possess (her6 x w) (defs x w)))))\])What are the legal antecedents for her in this sentence?
Certainly, the teacher is a can-didate, but consider his mother.
We cannot immediately determine whether his motheris a legal antecedent for her because (her6 x w) is not immediately compatible with therepresentation for his mother (i.e., (def3 x y z)).
We must first determine the meaningof his mother by selecting the antecedent for his.
Depending on the outcome, the finalmeaning of his mother may or may not be accessible to the pronoun.
If the antecedentfor his is Fred or the teacher, then his mother can be the antecedent for her (followingargument simplification).
However, if the antecedent is every student, then his mothercannot be the antecedent for her.4.4 Definites and Verb Phrase EllipsisTo handle VPE, we first determine the meanings of definite functions contained in atrigger VP before providing the meaning of an elided sentence.
Consider the followingexample in which the dog must denote the same dog in the trigger and elided sentences.437Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4Example 32Fred saw the dog.George did too.Possible Meanings: George saw the same dog that Fred saw.The initial representation f the trigger sentence is as follows.Example 33Fred saw the dog.
((defl) I (name (defl) Fred)), &(x)(see x ((def2 x) I (dog (def2 x)))Before deriving the meaning of the elided sentence from this representation f the trig-ger, we must apply argument simplification to the definite function (def2 x) (assumingthat it is nonanaphoric).Example 34Fred saw the dog.
((defl) I (name (defl) Fred)), )~(x)(and (see x ((def2 x) I (dog (def2 x)))) (-- (def2 x) (def3)))Simplification:((defl) I (name (defl) Fred)), &(x)(and (see x (def3)) (dog (def3)))Once the meaning of the definite function is determined, we derive the meaning ofthe elided sentence by using the VP representation from 34.Example 35George did too.
(George saw the same dog as Fred did.
)((def4) I (name (def4) George)), Mx)(and (see x ((def2 x) I (dog (def2 x))))(= (def2 x) (def3)))Simplification:((def4) I (name (def4) George)), Mx)(and (see x (def3)) (dog (def3)))Because the final meaning for the dog is (def3) in 34 and 35, it denotes the same dog.Consider how we can use definite functions to handle Example 3, discussed inSection 3.4.
The initial representation f the trigger sentence is shown in 36.Example 36Fred loves his wife.
((defl) \[ (name (defl) Fred)), )4x)(love x ((def2 x) I (and (wife (def2 x))(possess (his3 x)(def2 x)))))If the pronoun resolution module determines that the antecedent for his is Fred, thenthe trigger LF form is modified as follows.Example 37Fred/loves hisl wife.
((defl) (name (defl) Fred)), ;~(x)(love x ((def2 x) I (and (wife (def2 x))(possess (his3 x) (def2 x))(ora (= (his3 x) (defl))(= (his3 x) x)))))438Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormDepending on the meaning selected for the pronoun his, there are two different read-ings for the elided sentence.If his refers indirectly to Fred, the intended meaning for the trigger sentence isshown in 38.Example 38Fred/loves his/wife.
((defl) I (name (defl) Fred)), A(x)(love x ((def2 x) \[ (and (wife (def2 x))(possess (his3 x) (def2 x))(= (his3 x) x))))Simplification:((defl) I (name (defl) Fred)), ,~(x)(love x ((def2 x) I (and (wife (def2 x))(possess x (def2 x)))))Notice that def2"s restriction contains a free variable x and so its argument list isunchanged by argument simplification.
Hence, the representation of the VP in 38is used to derive the sloppy reading of the elided sentence shown in 39.Example 39George does too.
(George loves George's wife.
)((defs) \[ (name (defs) George)), A(x)(love x ((def2 x) \[ (and (wife (def2 x))(possess (his3 x) (def2 x))(= (his3 x) x))))Simplification:((defs) I (name (def5) George)), Mx)(love x ((def2 x) I (and (wife (def2 x))(possess x (def2 x)))))Notice that the function def2 denotes a different individual in the trigger and elidedsentences, depending on the value of x.On the other hand, suppose that his refers directly to Fred.
Then the intendedmeaning of the trigger sentence is shown in 40.Example 40Fred/loves hisi wife.
((defl) I (name (defl) Fred)), A(x)(love x ((def2 x) \[ (and (wife (def2 x))(possess (his3 x) (def2 x))(= (his3 x) (defl)))))Simplification:((defl) I (name (defl) Fred)), A(x)(love x ((def2 x) I (and (wife (def2 x))(possess (defl) (def2 x)))))Notice that once the pronoun function is replaced by (defl), the restriction of (def2 x)contains no free variables except hose in the argument list of the function itself.
Hencewe update the LF as follows.439Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4Example 41Fred/loves hisi wife.
((defl) I (name (defl) Fred)), )ffx)(and (love x ((def2 x) I (and (wife (def2 x))(possess (his3 x) (def2 x))(= (his3 x) (defl)))))(= (def2 x) (def4)))Simplification:((deh) I (name (defl) Fred)), )ffx)(and (love x (def4)) (wife (def4)) (possess (defO (def4))Using this representation f the VP, we derive the strict reading of the elided sentence.Example 42George does too.
(George loves Fred's wife.
)((def5) I (name (defs) George)), ;~(x)(and (love x ((def2 x) I (and (wife (def2 x))(possess (his3 x) (def2 x))(= (his3 x) (defl)))))(= (def2 x) (def4)))Simplification:((defs) I (name (def5) George)), ,~(x)(and (love x (def4)) (wife (def4)) (possess (defl) (def4))Notice that (def4) denotes the same individual in the trigger and elided sentences.Hence, our general LF representation of definite NPs allows us to derive both thesloppy and strict readings of the elided sentence.We have introduced a composite representation for definite NPs along with away to update its meaning as more information becomes available.
Our approach asseveral strengths: It is consistent with the three computational constraints discussedin Section 1; it handles a variety of definite behaviors with one mechanism; and itprovides useful constraints on intrasentential ntecedents for definites (in additionto traditional constraints like number and gender agreement) and a more flexiblemechanism than c-command for determining whether a definite noun phrase is apossible antecedent for an anaphoric expression.5.
Indefinites in Logical FormIn this section, we develop an initial LF representation for singular indefinite NPs andprovide a mechanism for updating it once additional information is processed.5.1 Indefinites: Linguistic Behavior and Initial RepresentationSingular indefinite NPs share many behaviors with singular definites, including thefact that the final meanings of both are affected by the meanings of embedded NPs.However, unlike definites, the meanings of indefinites are affected by negation, andso they cannot be initially represented as functions in LE For example:Example 43Fred did not see a woman.Possible Meanings:a.
~x: (woman x) Not(see Fred x)b.
Not 3x: (woman x) (see Fred x) = Vx: (woman x) Not(see Fred x)Whenever there is negation in a sentence containing an indefinite, two meanings ofthe sentence are possible.
If the negation does not have scope over the indefinite,440Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Formthen the indefinite is represented as an existential outside the scope of the negationas shown in 43a (and could be represented asa function).
In contrast, if the negationhas scope over the indefinite, then it has scope over the existential operator makingit equivalent to a universal (as shown in 43b).
If we represent the indefinite in 43 asa function before deciding whether the negation has scope over it, then the secondreading could not be expressed.
Thus, we represent indefinites initially as existentiallyquantified and restricted variables, as in Example 44.Example 44Fred saw a dog.
((defl) I (name (defl) Fred)), ;~(x)(saw x \[3y: (dog y) y\])To provide a scope-neutral form, we place the quantified term \[3y : (dog y) y\] directlyinto the predicate-argument structure (see Appendix A).
This initial representationof the indefinite is provided using only syntactic information and knowledge abouthow to map arguments into the predicate-argument structure, obeying the modularityconstraint.
Once quantifier scoping information is available, we update the sentence'sLF, using a mechanism that also allows us to account for several interesting indefinitebehaviors.5.2 Indefinites: Updating the Initial RepresentationAn approach that models indefinites solely as existentially quantified variables cannotaccount for the variety of behaviors of indefinite NPs, since quantifiers cannot havescope over variables in other sentences.
This accounts for the fact that the quantifiedNP cannot be the antecedent for the pronoun she in: The boy kissed everygirl.
She slappedhim.
However, in The boy kissed a girl.
She slapped him, the antecedent for she can be a girl.A similar problem arises in VPE.
If the trigger VP contains a pronoun whoseantecedent is an indefinite subject, two possible meanings for the elided sentence arepossible, as in Example 45.Example 45A postman/saw hisi dog.A policemanj did too.Possible Meanings: a.
A policeman saw the postman's dog.b.
A policeman saw his own dog.
(strict reading)(sloppy reading)When the antecedent for his is a postman, the elided sentence has two possible mean-ings, but a quantified representation for the indefinite can only account for one ofthem.
1?
Given that the antecedent for his is a dog, there are two possible representa-tions for the trigger VP.
The pronoun function is either replaced with the lambda orthe existential variable corresponding to the subject.
If we use the first representationof the pronoun, we are able to derive the sloppy reading.
But, if we use the second,then the meaning for the elided sentence would contain an unbound variable becauseexistential quantifiers do not have scope across sentences.Donkey sentences (originally noticed by Geach \[1962\]) suffer a similar difficulty.
Atypical donkey sentence is Every miner who owns a donkeyi beats iti.
Though the existential10 This example is in sharp contrast with Every postmani saw his i dog.
Every policeman did too.
The elidedsentence an only mean Every policeman saw his own dog.441Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4operator corresponding to a donkey cannot have scope over the pronoun it, the NP adonkey can be its antecedent.
In contrast, in Every miner who brushed every donkey beat it,the NP every donkey cannot be the antecedent for it.These examples indicate that our initial representation f a singular indefinite isinsufficient for modeling the variety of linguistic behaviors exhibited.
However, theexistential operator is only necessary until we can determine that the indefinite is notin the scope of a negation and can decide what has scope over the indefinite.
Afterthis information is available, it is desirable to transform the initial representation intoa form more compatible with the behaviors of indefinites, especially if that transfor-mation refines the meaning of the indefinite (conforming with the formal consistencyconstraint).
Our solution is to eliminate the existential operator and replace the exis-tential's variables with skolem functions.Once scoping is specified, each existentially quantified variable is replaced by afunction whose argument list consists of all of the universally quantified variables thathave scope over the existential operator.
To demonstrate how existential variables arereplaced by functions during skolemization, consider Example 46.Example 46Some man saw every woman.Possible Meanings:la.
3x: (man x) Vy: (woman y) (see x y)b. Vy (and (man (indef34)) (if (woman y) (see (indef34) y)))2a.
Vy: (woman y) 3x: (man x) (see x y)b. Vy (if (woman y) (and (man (indefg5 y)) (see (indef35 y) y)))There are two meanings for the sentence in 46, indicated in la and 2a, and these mean-ings are preserved when the existential variables are replaced by skolem functions, asshown in lb and 2b.When an indefinite is represented as an existentially quantified variable and i snot in the scope of negation, it can be replaced by an indefinite function.
However,additional information about the indefinite noun phrase must be gathered before sucha transformation is performed.
We need to:..3..Determine the antecedents of embedded pronouns and anaphoricdefinites.Determine the meanings of embedded efinite and indefinite NPs.Determine whether any embedded universally quantified NPs, notcontained in a relative clause, distribute over the indefinite.
(Theoperators that bind the variables contained in the restriction of theexistential operator, but that are not themselves contained in therestriction, necessarily have scope over the existential operator, as in thecase of definite functions).Determine whether quantifiers within the sentence have scope over theindefinite, even if those quantifiers do not bind a variable contained inthe indefinite's restriction.
(The final meaning of an indefinite is affectedby quantifiers "that could never affect the meaning of a definite.
Considerthe sentence, His mother saw every boy.
Despite the fact that his needs anantecedent, syntactic onstraints eliminate very boy from the list of442Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Form.possible candidates.
Hence, his mother acts as a constant in the sentence.Compare this sentence with A friend of his saw every boy.
Despite the factthat the antecedent for his cannot be every boy, a friend of his could still bein the scope of every boy).Determine whether lambda operators have scope over the indefinite,even if they do not bind a variable contained in the indefinite'srestriction.
(We discuss why lambda operator scope over an indefinite isan issue for handling VPE in the next section).To demonstrate how much information is necessary to determine the final meaningof an indefinite NP, consider the initial representation for the sentence Every man showedevery boy a picture of his mother.Example 47Every man showed every boy a picture of his mother.Vx: (man x) x, ~(y)(show y \[3w: (and (picture w)(of w ((defl w y z) I (and (mother (defl w y z))(possess (his2 w y z)(defl w y z)))))) w\]\[Vz: (boy z) z\])Before determining the final meaning of the indefinite, we must determine the meaningof the definite NP his mother and decide whether Vx, Vz, or &(y) has scope over it.
Ifthe antecedent for his is every boy, the updated LF is shown in Example 48.Example 48Every man showed every boy a picture of his mother.Vx: (man x) x, ,~(y)(show y \[3w: (and (picture w)(of w ((deh w y z) I (and (mother (defl w y z))(possess (his2 w y z)(defl w y z))(= (his2 w y z) z))))) w\]\[Vz: (boy z) z\])Since the restriction on (defl w y z) contains only the unbound variable z, we replace itwith a function of z.Example 49Every man showed every boy a picture of his mother.Vx: (man x) x, ,~(y)(and (show y \[3w: (and (picture w)(of w ((defl w y z) I (and (mother (deh w y z))(possess (his2 w y z)(deh w y z))(= (his2 w y z) z))))) w\]\[Vz: (boy z) z\])(= (defl w y z) (def3 z))Because z is unbound in the restriction of the existential, Vz must have scope over3w; however, we must still determine whether Vx or &(y) also have scope over theexistential.
If they do not, we update the LF by replacing the existential variable wwith a function of z.443Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4Example 50Every man showed every boy a picture of his mother.Vx: (man x) x, A(y)(and (show y ((indef4 z) I (and (picture (indef4 z))(of (indef4 2:)((deh (indef4 z) y z) I(and (mother (defl (indef4 z) y z))(possess (his2 (indef4 z) y z)(defl (indef4 z) y z))(= (his2 (indef4 z) y z) z))))))\[Vz: (boy z) z\])(= (defl (indef4 z) y z) (def3 z))By replacing the existential variables with a function of z, we indicate that only Vzhas scope over the existential.
This final meaning is compatible with the initial rep-resentation of the indefinite in 47, but we have constrained the initial meaning withadditional information.There are several advantages gained by replacing existential variables by functions.First, it provides a way to indicate quantifier scoping in a representation containingonly universal and existential quantifiers.
Second, the method of indicating scopeis similar to Allen's (1987) method since we are not limited to expressing scope as alinear string of operators.
Third, universal variables cannot be replaced with functions.Hence, skolemization may be useful for modeling the differences between universalsand indefinites in English.
Fourth, once quantifier scoping information is available, thereplacement of existential variables with functions is a meaning preserving operationas required by the formal consistency constraint.
Finally, a functional representationfor an indefinite allows us to account for several behaviors that are poorly modeledusing an existential variable representation f indefinites alone.The functional representation for an indefinite provides a mechanism for deter-mining whether a singular indefinite can be the antecedent for a singular pronoun ina subsequent sentence.
Consider the example: Every woman saw a dog.
It bit the tallestwoman.
The antecedent for the pronoun it can be a dog only if the universal operatorcorresponding to every woman does not have scope over the existential.
Consider theinitial representation f the first sentence.Example 51Every woman saw a dog.Vx: (woman x) x, A(y)(see y \[3z: (dog z) z\])Now, suppose that the universal has scope over the indefinite, then the LF would beupdated as follows.Example 52Vx: (woman x) x, A(y)(see y ((indef34 x) I (dog (indef34 x))))A consequence of this scoping decision is that a dog cannot be the antecedent for it,without causing a violation of the formal consistency constraint, n On the other hand,11 Even if we construct a discourse entity for a dog, following Webber (1978), the discourse entity for(indef34 x) would denote aset of dogs, and the pronoun resolution module would not allow a pluralentity to be the antecedent fora singular pronoun.444Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Formif the universal does not have scope over a dog, then the LF for the first sentence(shown in 51) is updated as shown in 53.Example 53Vx: (woman x) x, %(y)(see y ((indef37) I (dog (indef37))))Because a dog is represented as a function with no arguments, it is compatible withthe pronoun function representing it.~2The representation is also useful for handling the donkey sentence Every miner whoowns a donkeyi beats iti.
The antecedent for it is a donkey, yet in English, a quantified NPcontained in a relative clause attached to an NP cannot bind a pronoun outside of thatclause.
Hence, it cannot be bound by the existential quantifier corresponding to a don-key.
However, once the meaning of the indefinite has been determined it may becomeformally consistent with the pronoun function.
Consider the initial representation fthis sentence.Example 54Every miner who owns a donkey beats it.Vx: (and (miner x) x, A(y)(own y \[3z: (donkey z) z\])) x, A(w)(beat w (itss w))The pronoun it is represented as a function of w only and cannot be equated withz.
However, by replacing the existential term in the relative clause with a functionalterm, we will be able to assert hat the antecedent for it is a donkey.To replace the variables corresponding to the existential operator with a function,we must determine whether the existential quantifier is in the scope of negation.Assuming that the negation introduced by the restriction on the universal operatordoes not have scope over a donkey, we replace the existential term with a functionwhose arguments are the variables corresponding to operators that have scope over it.If only Vx has scope over the existential (i.e., A(y) does not have scope), we can assertthe anaphoric relationship between it and a donkey.Example 55Every miner who owns a donkey/beats iti.Skolemization:Vx (if (and (miner x) x, A(y)(own y ((indef22 x) I (donkey (indef22 x))))) x, A(w)(beat w (it5s w)))Pronoun Update:Vx (if (and (miner x) x, A(y)(own y ((indef22 x) J (donkey (indefa2 x)))))x, A(w)(and (beat w (itss w)) (= (itss w) (indef22 x))))Since (it58 w) is consistent with a function of x (because A(w) abstracts the variable x),we can assert he anaphoric relationship, as shown above.
13It is important to note that the initial type of a quantified NP determines whetherskolemization can make it accessible to a pronoun function whose argument list doesnot contain that NP's variable.
If an NP is initially represented as a universal, thenunless the universal variable is included in the argument list of the pronoun, it cannotbe the antecedent for that pronoun even if it is in the scope of negation.
For example,12 It could also be used to create asingular discourse ntity compatible with the singular pronoun.13 Our solution has much in common with Webber's (1978) parameterized in ividuals.
Webber introducesa parameterized in ividual (which looks much like an indefinite function) as the antecedent for it.However, she does not modify the initial representation of the indefinite.445Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4in Every miner who did not see every donkey beat it, the antecedent for it cannot be not everydonkey.
In contrast, so long as an indefinite remains an existential, even if it cannotbind the pronoun, it may become accessible to the pronoun once we determine itsprecise behavior and convert it into a functional term.5.3 Indefinites and Verb Phrase EllipsisThe representation f an indefinite as a function is also very useful for modelingindefinite subjects in VPE.
Consider Example 45 again.
By converting existentiallyquantified variables into functions, we are able to provide the strict meaning for theelided sentence without creating an ill-formed representation; we simply replace thesubject's existential variables with a skolem constant (assuming it is not in the scopeof another quantifier).To properly model indefinite NPs contained in a trigger VP for VPE, we must con-sider whether the lambda operators in a VP representation have scope over indefinitesrepresented asexistentially quantified variables.
Consider Example 56.Example 56Fred saw a dog.George did too.Possible Meanings: 1.
George saw the same dog that Fred saw.2.
George saw a different dog than Fred saw.When an indefinite NP occurs in the trigger VP, the elided sentence is ambiguous.This is in contrast to Example 32 discussed in Section 4.4: Fred saw the dog.
George didtoo, in which the elided sentence can only mean George saw the same dog that Fred saw.
Byignoring lambda operators when converting existential variables to skolem functions,we would be unable to provide the second meaning for the elided sentence in thisexample.To illustrate this point further, consider how we determine the three meanings ofthe elided sentence in Example 57.Example 57Fred/saw a friend of his/.Georgej did too.Possible Meanings: 1.
George saw the same friend of Fred's.2.
George saw a different friend of Fred's.3.
George saw a friend of George's.The initial representation for the trigger sentence is shown in 58.Example 58Fred saw a friend of his.
((def97) I (name (def97) Fred)), Mx)(see x \[3y: (and (friend y) (possess (his98 x) y)) y\])Given that the antecedent for his is Fred, this LF is updated as shown in 59.Example 59Fred/saw a friend of his/.
((def97) \[ (name (def97) Fred)), )ffx)(see x \[3y: (and (friend y)(possess (his98 x) y)(ora (= (his98 x) x) (= (his98 x) (def97)))) y\])446Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormNow, before converting the existential into its functional form, we must determinewhich meaning of the pronoun is intended.Suppose that the pronoun his refers indirectly to the subject; then, the trigger LFis refined as shown in 60.Example 60Fred/saw a friend of his/.
((def97) I (name (def97) Fred)), &(x)(see x \[3y: (and (friend y)(possess (his98 x) y)(= (his98 x) x)) y\])Since ,Ux) must have scope over the existential to bind the variable x in its restriction,the existential must be a function of that variable and can be used to provide the thirdmeaning of the elided sentence in 57, as shown in 61.Example 61Trigger: Fred/saw a friend of his/.
((def97) I (name (def97) Fred)), &(x)(see x ((indef99 x) I (and (friend (indef99 x))(possess (his98 x) (indef99 x))(= (his98 x) x))))Ellipsis: George clid too.
(George saw a friend of George's.
)((defl00) I (name (defl00) George)), )ffx)(see x ((indef99 x) I (and (friend (indef99 x))(possess (his98 x) (indef99 x))(= (his98 x) x))))In contrast, assume that the pronoun his refers directly to Fred.
This choice is reflectedin the LF shown in 62.Example 62Fred/saw a friend of his/.
((def97) I (name (def97) Fred)), ;~(x)(see x \[3y: (and (friend y)(possess (his98 x) y)(= (his98 x) (clergy))) y\])We must still determine whether &(x) has scope over the existential.
If it does, wereplace the existential variables with a function of x as shown in 63, allowing us toprovide the second reading of the elided sentence in 57.Example 63Trigger: Fred/saw a friend of his/.
((def97) I (name (def97) Fred)), &(x)(see x ((indefi00 x) I (and (friend (indefl00 x))(possess (hisg8 x) (indefl00 x))(= (his98 x) (def97)))))Ellipsis: George did too.
(George saw a different friend of Fred's.
)((deh00) I (name (deh00) George)), )ffx)(see x ((indefi00 x) \] (and (friend (indeh00 x))(possess (his98 x) (indefl00 x))(= (his98 x) (def97)))))Finally, if ,~(x) does not have scope over the existential, then we replace the existentialvariable with a skolem constant, allowing us to provide the first reading of the elidedsentence in 57.447Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4StartParse nextsentence andPushLFon Istack/ MutupleNno ~ I Determine~ ~ t r igger ' s__  \]PromptmeaningrI Prompt user to~_ .
.
_~ ~llae.
~ user to select rigger LF ISelect rigger VP \[and determineelided VP's meaningFigure 3Flow of control for VPE program.Example 64Trigger: Fred/saw a friend of his/.
((def97) I (name (def97) Fred)), )~(x)(see x ((indefl02) I (and (friend (indefl02))(possess (his98 x) (indefl02))(= (his98 x) (def97)))))Ellipsis: George did too.
(George saw the same friend of Fred's.
)((defloo) I (name (defloo) George)), ,~(x)(see x ((indefl02) I (and (friend (indefi02))(possess (his98 x) (indefl02))(= (his98 x) (def97)))))Hence, we are able to provide all three readings for the elided sentence in 57.We have described an initial representation f rindefinite NPs along with a way toupdate the representation after more information becomes available.
Our approach isconsistent with the three computational constraints discussed in Section 1 and modelsa variety of indefinite behaviors.6.
ImplementationIn this section, we describe the operation of a program to generate the meanings forsentences that contain intersentential VPE.
This implementation demonstrates that theLF described inthis paper can be automatically generated during sentence parsing andthat the intended meaning of the LF can be determined through a series of machineguided steps (see Figure 3).The program parses the sentences in the following example, starting with thetrigger sentence.448Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormExample 65Fred/saw (his/mother's)/picturek.Georget did too.Possible Meanings: 1.
George saw Fred's mother's picture.2.
George saw George's mother's picture.If there are multiple parses for a sentence, there will be multiple LFs with each LFcorresponding to a different parse tree.
In such a case, the user is prompted to selectthe intended parse (and hence, the intended LF).
The trigger sentence in Example 65has a single parse tree and the parser produces the single LF shown in 66.Example 66Fred saw his mother's picture.
((dell) \] (name (defl) Fred),),(y)(see (subject y) (object ((def4 y) I (and (picture (def4 y))(possess ((def3 y) I (and (mother (def3 y))(possess (his2 y)(def3 y))))(def4 y))))))In this program, we label the roles of the noun phrases to keep track of logical subjectsand objects in order to prevent a passive voice sentence from becoming the trigger foran active voice sentence (or vice versa).
We label the subject's lambda variable as thelogical subject for a sentence with active voice or as the logical object for a sentencewith passive voice.
We do not specify case roles like agent in our LF because theirdetermination may require contextual information.
Also, the case role of a subject neednot be the same in the trigger and elided sentences, e.g., Fred hit the window.
The hammerdid too.
The subject in the first sentence is probably filling the role of agent, whereasthe subject of the second fills the role of instrument.Because our program is designed to provide meanings of sentences with VPE, itexamines each LF provided by the parser to see if it contains an elided VP.
If it doesnot contain one, then additional processing of the potential trigger sentence is put offuntil the final meaning of the sentence is needed.
Ideally, processing should be doneas information becomes available; however, for the purpose of this implementation,it is conceptually simpler to refine the trigger LF only when its meaning must bedetermined to disambiguate an elided VP.
Hence, the LF in 66 is saved on a stack ofrecently processed sentences.To determine the meaning of an elided sentence (a process depicted in Figure 4),the program must first locate the trigger sentence.
(The fact that the representationcontains an elided VP is indicated by the dummy predicate in 67.
)Example 67George did too.
((defs) I (name (defs) George)), &(w)(dummy33 (subject w))To accomplish this, the program has the user select he LF for the trigger sentence fromthe LFs stored on the stack (assume the user selects the LF in 66).
Since the meaningof the trigger sentence is underspecified, the meaning of the elided sentence is alsoambiguous.
Thus, the program must next determine the trigger sentence's meaning.To do this, the program must find antecedents for all of the pronoun functions.
Oncethe pronouns have antecedents, it handles all definites, and then all quantified NPs.This sequence occurs unless the antecedent for a pronoun is an NP in the sentence449Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4Elided Sentence: George did too.
~ ((dcf~) I (name (defs) George)),Z(w)(dununY33 (subject w))~ Find Trigger Se tence: / ~Trigger Fred saw his mother's picture.
__  Apply Subject toreplace dummYon / lambda functi George saw George's mother's picture.Fred ~ (clefs) saw his mother's picture~ ~.
(y)(sec (subject y) (object ...))his mother's picture ~ (clef 4 y)AT necessary variables: yhis mother's Lv_ (de'i3 y)_._l"t -A  ~n~ss~ variables: yhis _~ (hi~2y)" ~ replace pronounY function with yUser Input: yFigure 4Evaluation of the elided sentence for Example 65.that is not immediately compatible with the pronoun, in which case, the programattempts to refine the NP's meaning to determine whether it is formally consistentwith the pronoun.
In our example, the program begins disambiguating the triggersentence by searching for antecedents of the pronoun function (his2 y).
The user isasked to determine whether the antecedent occurs in another sentence.
Assuming itdoesn't, the pronoun compatibility routine prompts the user to select an antecedentNP from the sentence, using information about the type and location of the pronounto eliminate impossibilities.
14 If a possible antecedent is a definite or indefinite, even ifit is not formally consistent with a pronoun function, it may still become compatiblewith the pronoun once its meaning is determined.To refine the meaning of definite noun phrases with embedded NPs, the programmust first determine the meanings of embedded pronouns, definites, and indefinites,and then determine whether any embedded quantifiers have scope over the definite.For example, to determine the meaning of (def3 y), the meaning of (his2 y) must bedetermined.
If the user selects Fred as the antecedent, then the program also promptsthe user to select either the lambda variable y or (defl).
If the user picks the lambdavariable (as shown in Figure 4) then the variable replaces the pronoun function inLF.
Given this choice, y is a necessary argument for (def3 y), so the definite cannot beanaphoric and cannot be further simplified.
Since y is a necessary argument for (def4y), there is no modification of that function.The program continues processing the meanings of the noun phrases in the sen-tence until the meanings of all constituent NPs are determined (or until an erroroccurs).
Assume, in our example, that the program produces the following refined LFfor the trigger sentence in Example 68.14 If the pronoun is reflexive, its antecedent must occur in the same clause and cannot be embedded in anNP.
On the other hand, if the pronoun is not reflexive, its antecedent cannot be in the same clauseunless the pronoun or its antecedent is embedded in another noun phrase.
Finally, potentialantecedents must be formally consistent with the pronoun function.450Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormExample 68Fred/saw hisi mother's picture.
((defD I (name (defD Fred),A(y)(see (subject y) (object ((def4 y) \] (and (picture (def4 y))(possess ((def3 y) \[ (and (mother (def3 y))(possess y (def3 y))))(def4 y))))))In the event that the trigger sentence contains more than one VP, the programprompts the user to select he trigger VP.
Since there is only one VP in 68, the programchecks it to ensure that it contains no free variables, 15 is compatible with the voice of theelided VP, and that a trigger sentence with more than one pronoun whose antecedent isthe same syntactic subject obeys the multiple pronoun constraint discussed in Harper(1990).
Notice that the VP in 68 contains no free variables and is compatible in voiceto the elided VP in 67.
Hence, the program replaces the elided VP with the trigger VPas shown in 69, and the meaning of the elided sentence is determined.Example 69Sentence: George did too.Meaning: George saw George's mother's picture.
((def7) \] (name (def7) George)),A(y)(see (subject y) (object ((def4 y) I (and (picture (def4 y))(possess ((def3 y) \] (and (mother (def3 y))(possess y (def3 y))))(def4 y))))))7.
Related WorkOther researchers have developed an intermediate r presentation for a sentence fromsyntactic information (Pollack and Pereira 1988; Alshawi and van Eijck 1989).
Theseapproaches agree that in order to determine the meaning of a sentence, it is usefulto build a partial meaning that is augmented once contextual information becomesavailable.
These approaches, however, use a different scheme for indicating the finalmeaning of a sentence and do not handle VPE.In the rest of this section, we review past representations of pronouns, definiteNPs, and indefinite NPs.
We emphasize VPE research because it considers not onlythe representation f sentences in general, but also the representation f trigger sen-tences.
Each approach is examined in the light of its modeling capability and ourcomputational constraints.7.1 Verb Phrase Ellipsis and Models of PronounsPronouns are often classified as either bound variable or referential pronouns (Sag1976; Webber 1978; Reinhart 1983; Partee and Bach 1981), but the adequacy of thisdichotomy is questionable (as discussed in Section 3.1).
Models of VPE must considernot only pronouns in normal sentences but also pronouns in trigger sentences, andmust account for the ambiguity that arises when a pronoun's antecedent is the syntac-tic subject of a trigger sentence.
Sag (1976) and Webber (1978) handle this ambiguity byintroducing a rule to replace a pronoun whose antecedent is known to be the syntactic15 This program only deals with intersentential VPE.
Hence, all variables inthe trigger VP must be boundin the VP, otherwise the elided sentence annot receive ameaning.
If we augment our approach tohandle antecedent-contained ellipsis, we would have to allow variables bound by an operator outsideof the VP but inside the meaning of the sentence.451Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4subject of a trigger sentence with the larnbda variable corresponding to that subject.They also assume that a pronoun whose antecedent is a nonsubject definite is neces-sarily referential.
But a problem arises when a pronoun's antecedent is a nonsubject,nonreferential definite, as in Example 70.Example 70Trigger Sentence: Fred/showed (his/mother)j herj dog.Elided Sentence: George1 did too.Possible Readings:1.
George showed Fred's mother Fred's mother's dog.2.
George showed George's mother George's mother's dog.Impossible Readings:3.
*George showed George's mother Fred's mother's dog.4.
*George showed Fred's mother George's mother's dog.Given the indices on the NPs, the elided sentence has meanings 1and 2, shown in 70.Sag's and Webber's models correctly allow meaning 1 and incorrectly allow meaning3 at the expense of meaning 2 (because Fred's mother can be the only meaning for hergiven their approach).Reinhart (1983) also indicates that pronouns are either bound variables or refer-ential, providing a syntactic rule for determining when a pronoun can be bound byits antecedent: a pronoun can be bound by an NP if and only if it c-commands thepronoun.
Reinhart does not represent pronouns or definites as quantified terms, yetshe claims that when a pronoun's antecedent is a definite NP or a pronoun that c-commands the pronoun, then the pronoun is bound by a lambda operator abstractingthe antecedent.
At first glance, the idea of binding a pronoun with the lambda oper-ator of its antecedent (given that the NP c-commands the pronoun) seems promising;it can be used to handle Example 70.
However, in English, a nonreferential definitecan be a pronoun's antecedent even if it does not c-command the pronoun, as in Everymani gave the psychiatrist who cares for (hisi mother)j herj diary.
Reinhart can only providethe pronoun her with a referential meaning, which is inappropriate in this case.
Also,Reinhart assumes that the lambda variable is the only nonreferential representationfor a pronoun whose antecedent is a definite NP in the same sentence.
If this is cor-rect, then there should only be one meaning for a pronoun whose antecedent is anonreferential definite subject.
However, consider Example 71 (which was inspired byan example in Sells, Zaenen, and Zec \[1989\]).Example 71Every man/believes that (his/wife)j can defend herselfj better than hei can.Possible Meanings:1.
Every man believes that his wife can defend herself better than he can defendhimself.2.
Every man believes that his wife can defend herself better than he can defend her.Reinhart's approach can only provide the first meaning of the elided sentence in 71.This example suggests that pronouns can refer to definite subjects in two nonreferentialways; lambda abstraction accounts for only one of them.Partee and Bach (1981) attempt to dispense with LF in translating from syntax tofinal interpretation, building on Montague's (1970) general theory (with a few modifi-cations to get around the strict compositionality of that approach).
All of the possiblerepresentations for ambiguous entences are simultaneously generated, avoiding the452Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Formneed for an intermediate level of representation.
They directly provide model-theoreticinterpretations for sentences containing pronouns and elided VPs.
In their approach,null or elided VPs and pronouns are initially represented as variables.
Pronouns arerepresented asvariables that are either bound by some operator or remain free withinthe representation f the sentence.
If a pronoun variable is unbound, it is assignedsome value by a context assignment function, that is, a function that maps the vari-able to the individual that the pronoun denotes.
In other words, pronouns are eitherbound variables in this model or they are referential.
An elided VP is represented asa free property variable, typed to receive a value corresponding to a VP already indiscourse.
It receives its interpretation in much the same way as an unbound pronounvariable, with the exception that its antecedent must be available in linguistic con-text.
Once the value of the null VP is specified, the meaning of the elided sentence isdetermined.Bach and Partee point out a variety of examples for which their approach fails.
Be-cause there is no mechanism for ensuring that a pronoun bound in the trigger sentenceis bound by the same operator in the elided sentence, their approach provides ahost ofimpossible interpretations for elided sentences.
For example, their approach providesan impossible interpretation for the elided sentence in No man believes that Mary loveshim.
But she does, given that no man is the antecedent for him and the meaning of thenull VP is loves him.
Since the variable for him is unbound in the elided interpretation,it must be assigned a value (e.g., Fred) by the context assignment function.
Parteeand Bach also discuss examples in which an elided sentence receives an impossibleinterpretation when a free pronoun variable in the trigger VP becomes accidentallybound by a quantifier in the elided sentence.
In addition to the problems pointed outby Partee and Bach, others arise if we assume that definite NPs are quantified.The above approaches also do not adhere to all of our computational constraints,which are essential in any computer model.
For example, Sag's (1976), Webber's (1978),and Reinhart's (1983) approaches do not conform with the formal consistency con-straint (because they replace pronoun strings with a variable to account for boundvariable meanings of a pronoun) and Partee and Bach's approach (1981) does notconform with the compactness constraint.7.2 Past Representations of Definites and IndefinitesIn this section, we examine previous representations of definite NPs.
In particular,we review definite descriptions and definite quantifiers.
We also examine some recentwork that departs from traditional representations of definite NPs (e.g., Heim \[1982\];Roberts \[1987\]; Kamp \[1981\]; Klein \[1987\]).7.2.1 Definite Descriptions and Definite Quantifiers.
Many researchers have attemptedto represent definite NPs using definite descriptions or definite quantifiers.
Russell(1971) introduced efinite descriptions to capture the meaning of definite NPs like thedog in Example 72.Example 72The dog barked.
: (barked (~x)(dog x))which means:3x (and (Dog x) ; The dog exists.Vy ((dog y) *-~ x=y) ; It is the one-and-only dog.
(barked x)) ; It barked.453Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4The definite description, (~x)(dog x), which stands for the object xsuch that the property (dogx) is true names aunique object, and hence, is translated into the formula, 3x (and (dog x)Vy ((dog y) *-4 (= x y))).
Notice three important features of the meaning of the sentencein Example 72: the dog described by the definite NP is assumed to exist, is assumedto be unique, and fills some role in the sentence.Definite descriptions suffer from several problems.
First, there is no role speci-fied for the effect of context on the uniqueness statement (aproblem noted by manypeople, including Allen \[1987\] and Hintikka and Kulas \[1985\]).
For example, the dogin 72 is described as the-one-and-only the dog, regardless of context.
Second, definitedescriptions do not adequately model anaphoric definites (as noted by Hintikka andKulas \[1985\]), which need not be unique and seem to adapt to the behavior dictatedby their antecedents, as in Every boyi saw (hisi dog)/before the beast/saw himi.
To coverthis example, the definite description for the beast could be replaced by some valueconsistent with the representation f its antecedent, but not without violating the for-mal consistency constraint, or another epresentation foranaphoric definites could bedevised, but this might violate our compactness constraint.
Another difficulty involvesthe representation f Bach-Peters sentences, like (The boy who wrote her/)i kissed (the girlwho loved himi)j, which cannot be represented without infinite recursion (as noted byHintikka and Kulas \[1985\]).Other researchers have represented definites using the quantificational meaningof a definite description directly (e.g., Webber \[1983\] and Montague \[1970\]).
Whilean in-place definite description simply fills an argument slot in a predicate-argumentstructure representing the sentence, a quantifier scopes an open sentence.
For example,the sentence, The dog barked, could be represented asshown in 73 (along with a short-hand notation, where the quantifier 3!
reads there xists a unique).Example 73The dog barked.3x: (and (dog x) (Vy ((dog y) *-* x=y))) (barked x)Short hand notation: 3!x: (dog x) (barked x)A quantificational representation fordefinites uffers from several problems.
First,as one might guess, it suffers from the same uniqueness problem that in-place definitedescriptions have.
16 Second, definite noun phrases do not exhibit the same type ofquantifier scope ambiguity that other quantified NPs have.
Compare the two sentencesbelow.Example 74a.
Every man loves a woman.1.
Vx: (man x) 3y: (woman y) (loves x y)2.
3y: (woman y) Vx: (man x) (loves x y)b.
Every man loves the woman.1.
Vx: (man x) 3!y: (woman y) (loves x y)2.
3!y: (woman y) Vx: (man x) (loves x y)16 Dowty, Wall, and Peters (1981) suggest a nice way to fix the uniqueness problem.
They eliminate heone-and-only aspect of a definite quantifier by relativizing uniqueness to a context of utterance (muchas the domain of a universal NP must be relativized toa context of utterance).
Though their solutionimproves definite quantifiers, it does not eliminate he problem with definite anaphora.454Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical FormWhile the sentence in 74a has two different meanings and two representations, the sen-tence in 74b expresses one meaning, but has two representations.
Definite descriptions,on the other hand, provide only a single representation for Every man loves the womanwhile providing multiple representations for sentences with definite scope ambiguity,as in The mechanic adjusted the steering wheel in each car.
Third, as we have already dis-cussed in Section 4.1, the strict reading of the elided sentence in Example 18 is difficultfor a quantified efinite representation to account for.
Finally, pronoun references todefinites are not constrained in the way that pronoun references to other quantifiedNPs are.
For example, when a quantifier is embedded in a relative clause attachedto a noun phrase, it cannot bind a pronoun outside of that clause, as in Fred gave thepsychiatrist who cares for every woman her diary.
In contrast, he pronoun her in Every mangave the psychiatrist who cares for his mother her diary can have his mother as its antecedent.One might, like Hornstein (1984), assume that definites are quantified but have differ-ent properties than universal quantifiers.
However, this assumption does not correctsome of the problems of definite quantifiers, uch as uniqueness or their inability tomodel anaphoric definites.Rather than modifying definite quantifiers, it seems appropriate to represent defi-nites as functions and gain four immediate benefits.
First, the representation f a def-inite NP as a uniquely named function provides a mechanism for handling anaphoricdefinite NPs.
Second, because of this naming convention, definite functions are distinctunless an equality is asserted between them.
Third, since we represent each definiteas a function with a restriction and the restriction provides us with a mechanism fordetermining the final meaning of the definite, we are able to capture the propertiesof a definite description without neglecting anaphoric definites.
Fourth, while defi-nite quantifiers can violate the compactness and formal consistency constraints, 17 ourapproach does not.7.2.2 Heim (1982) and Discourse Representation Theory.
Another approach to mod-eling definites was developed by Heim (1982) and Discourse Representation Theory(DRT) researchers Kamp (1981), Roberts (1987), Klein (1987).
A hallmark of these ap-proaches is their ability to handle anaphoric definites in a reasonable way and thecommitment to modeling the meaning of a series of sentences in discourse, not justindividual sentences.Heim (1982) treats definites and indefinites very similarly in her theory since bothcan be referred to across sentence boundaries, unlike universal NPs.
To provide aninterpretation for a sentence, Heim first determines the logical form for a sentence.
Herlogical form is essentially a parse tree with quantifier scoping information indicated,though it is not a logical representation forthe meaning of the sentence.
Once the logicalform for a sentence is constructed, she provides a file change semantics for the sentenceusing felicity conditions to distinguish definites from indefinites.
For example, thenovelty-familiarity felicity condition states that indefinites should always cause a newdiscourse referent (or file card) to be created in the discourse model but definite NPsshould not introduce a new discourse referent (or file card).
Clearly, Heim's approachemphasizes the anaphoric aspect of the definite NP, which both definite descriptionsand definite quantifiers fail to handle well.Heim's model handles anaphoric definites, but she must introduce accommodationto cover nonanaphoric definites.
Consider the sentence Every mani loves hisi mother.17 Formal consistency is violated when a wide scope definite isreplaced with something that cannot bedescribed as a constant and compactness is violated when a different representation is i troduced tohandle anaphoric definites.455Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4a?
x2person(x2)I irsoo xx xx' Ib.person(xl) person(x2)I \[ (love x2 xl)Figure 5Discourse representations forSomeone loves everyone.Accommodation, a concept introduced by Lewis (1979), allows the introduction of anew file card for a definite NP if and only if that NP is related to a previous file card.In the example, his mother is nonanaphoric; however, given that the antecedent forhis is every man, accommodation allows the introduction of a new discourse referent.However, to provide a file card for his mother, the model must know that his refers toevery man; accommodation requires more than syntax and sentence-level information toprovide the representation for some definite NPs.
Additionally, Heim's model wouldhave trouble handling any definite NPs without an accommodation li k to a previousNP in the discourse model.Heim's approach requires a considerable amount of information before a definiteor indefinite NP is represented in file change semantics (including quantifier scopinginformation and pronoun antecedents).
Hence, the process of representing sentencesin file change semantics does not seem to comply with our modularity constraint.Kamp (1981) introduces a discourse theory similar to Heim's, called DiscourseRepresentation Theory (DRT), providing a model-theoretic interpretation for discoursemodels.
Both theories are motivated by the fact that pronouns in one sentence canhave definite and indefinite antecedents in another sentence, while universals cannotbind pronouns in other sentences.
Kamp's approach as been extended by severalresearchers (e.g., Klein \[1987\]; Roberts \[1987\]).
Since Kamp does not discuss quantifierscope ambiguities, we introduce DRT as discussed by Roberts.In DRT, a set of construction rules converts natural language into discourse struc-tures.
To do so, however, quantifier scoping information must be specified.
Considerthe two DRT representations for Someone loves everyone.
The first, shown in Figure 5a,corresponds to the reading in which someone has scope over everyone.
The discoursereferents for everyone and someone are xl and x2, respectively.
The universal NP causesthe creation of the antecedent-consequent box.
Because x2 is defined outside of xl 'santecedent-consequent box, it acts like a constant.
The second, shown in Figure 5b,corresponds to the reading in which everyone has scope over someone.
Because thediscourse referent for someone is created in the consequent box of the universal, itsdenotation depends on xl,  the discourse referent for everyone.
Each quantifier scopingrequires a different discourse representation for the meaning of the sentence.Mapping into a discourse representation is a top-down process that reduces theoriginal sentence to a structure with a discourse referent for each noun phrase, withpredicates indicating restrictions on the discourse referents as well as relations betweendiscourse referents.
As we already pointed out, a universal is represented by placingits discourse referent and restriction into an antecedent box, with additional sentenceinformation placed in the consequent box (resulting in a meaning like a universal in456Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Forml xl x2 \] ~\[miner(xl)donkey(x2) \[ \[x3(beat xl x3)(=x3 x2)Figure 6Discourse representation for Every miner who owns a donkey beats it.predicate calculus).
Indefinites and definites are represented by placing their discoursereferents and restriction information in the box corresponding to the current level inthe model.
An accessibility relation determines when a pronoun can have a particulardiscourse referent as its antecedent.
A pronoun's antecedent can be any discoursereferent defined in the box where the pronoun is instantiated or in any box containingthat box.
Additionally, a pronoun in a consequent box can also refer to anything inthe antecedent box (unless the antecedent is embedded in another box contained inthe antecedent box).Roberts (1987) combines DRT with c-command to distinguish two types of bind-ing, c-command binding and discourse binding.
C-command binding occurs when thebest way to represent the anaphoric NP is by replacing it with the variable associatedwith the operator of the NP that c-commands it.
On the other hand, discourse bindingis needed to handle anaphoric dependencies on things that don't c-command a pro-noun or anaphoric definite.
For example, consider the sentence Every miner who owns adonkey beats it.
In Robert's approach, if a donkey had c-commanded it, then no discoursereferent would be created for it; instead, the pronoun would be represented using thediscourse referent of its antecedent.
However, because a donkey does not c-command it,the sentence is handled as shown in Figure 6.
Notice that the pronoun is representedas a discourse referent x3, which is equated with the discourse referent for a donkey(i.e., x2).
Pronouns that haven't already been replaced by a discourse referent must beequated with some accessible discourse referent.Klein (1987) has augmented DRT to handle VPE by introducing a concept hatis very similar to lambda abstraction.
He is able to represent VPs and abstract thesyntactic subject of the sentence.
Consider how Example 3 is handled.Example 3Trigger Sentence:Elided Sentence:Possible Meanings:Fred/loves his/wife.Georgej does too.1.
George loves Fred's wife.
(strict meaning)2.
George loves George's wife.
(sloppy meaning)The discourse representation for the two readings of the elided sentence are shownin Figure 7.
Klein represents the trigger VP as a boxed structure named P. Within thisbox is a distinguished variable x2 (distinguished variables are marked with brackets),which corresponds to the abstracted subject.
The trigger sentence is represented asP(xO), which is very similar to applying the discourse referent for the subject o alambda function named P. The discourse referent for his is x4, which can either beequated with the distinguished iscourse referent (i.e., x2) or with something outsideof the VP box.
To get the sloppy reading, it is equated with the distinguished discourse457Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4a.
x0 xl P qFred(x0)P: Ix2\] x3 x4wife(x3)possess(x4 x3)love(x2 x3)x4 = x2P(x0)George(xl)Q(xl)Q=Pb.
x0 xl P QFred(x0)P:\[\[x2\] x3 x4Iwife(x3)Ipossess(x4 x3)\[love(x2 x3)\] x4 = xOP(x0)George(x1)Q(xl)Q=PFigure 7Discourse representations for the readings of Example 3.referent, as shown in Figure 7a.
The elided sentence is represented initially as Q(xl),where xl is the discourse referent for the subject of the elided sentence.
The sloppyreading for the sentence is provided when Q is equated with P.On the other hand, to derive the strict reading of the elided sentence, the discoursereferent for the pronoun in the VP is equated with the discourse referent for the subject,namely xO (as shown in Figure 7b).
Again the meaning of the elided sentence is derivedby equating Q with P, but in this case the pronoun's discourse referent is equated withthe discourse referent for the subject.
Hence, Klein derives the two expected readingsfor the elided sentence in 3.This approach to VPE is similar to ours, except we introduce xplicit differencesbetween definite and indefinite NPs.
To see why this is an issue, compare Examples 75and 57.Example 75Fred/saw his/friend.Georgej did too.Possible Meanings: 1.
George saw Fred's friend.2.
George saw George's friend.Example 57Fred/saw a friend of his/.Georgej did too.Possible Meanings: 1.
George saw the same friend of Fred's.2.
George saw a different friend of Fred's.3.
George saw a friend of George's.Because definites and indefinites are represented in the same way in DRT, the sloppyreadings for both of these examples are represented in precisely the same way (shownin Figure 8a), as are the strict readings (shown in Figure 8b).
However, the meaningof his friend is quite different from the meaning of a friend of his in VPE.
The elidedsentence in 75 cannot mean George saw a different friend of Fred's, in contrast o the elided458Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Forma.
x0 xl P QFred(x0)P: \[x2\] x3 x4 \[friend(x3) Ipossess(x4 x3) \[see(x2 x3) \[x4 = x2  IP(x0)George(xl)Q(xl)Q=Pb.
x0 xl P QFred(x0)P:\[ Ix2\] x3 x4\[ friend(x3)IPossess(x4 x3)\[ see(x2 x3)I x4 = x0P(.O)George(xl)Q(xl)Q=PFigure 8Discourse representations forthe readings of Examples 57 and 75.sentence in 57.
One more interpretation is available for the elided sentence in 57 thanfor the elided sentence in 75, but in each case, only two representations are provided.In our approach, definites and indefinites are treated quite differently, not simply inhow they are initially represented, but also in how they are processed to determinefinal meanings.
It is therefore asier for us to explain the differences between examples57 and 75.
In Section 5.3, we demonstrated how our approach is able to provide thethree readings for the elided sentence in 57.
In contrast, our approach provides onlytwo readings for the elided sentence in 75, as shown with a similar example (i.e.,Example 3) in Section 4.4.In Klein's (1987) approach to VPE, the discourse referents for definites and in-definites are provided only after quantifier scoping information is available.
Hence,Klein's discourse representation forthese NPs is similar to our refined representationsfor definites and indefinites (i.e., definite functions following argument simplificationand indefinite functions), where a discourse referent that is created in a box introducedby a universal corresponds toa function of a universal variable.
However, Klein's ap-proach does not determine whether lambda operators (i.e., distinguished variables)have scope over discourse referents in a VP box.
To handle Examples 57 and 75 inthe framework of DRT, Klein must determine whether a discourse referent should bedefined inside or outside of the VP box, stipulating that a discourse referent is cre-ated inside a box if and only if the operator responsible for introducing that box hasscope over the NP.
In contrast to our approach, the information required to make thisdecision must be known before building the discourse model.8.
ConclusionWe began with the idea that LF, a compact intermediate l vel of representation de-rived only from syntactic and sentence-level information, is a valuable component inany computer model generating meaning for sentences.
It can be used to postponethe determination of an unambiguous meaning for a sentence until the informationrequired to select he intended meaning becomes available.
Even though the mean-ing of the logical form for a sentence is ambiguous, it can be used by a contextual459Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4processing module to guide the refinement of its own meaning (as well as the meaningof other sentences' LFs).We have developed logical form representations for pronouns, definites, and in-definites and have demonstrated through a variety of detailed examples that theserepresentations accurately model the linguistic behavior of the language (for a dis-cussion of a wider variety of examples ee Harper \[1989, 1990\]).
We have proposedthree computational constraints for using LF in a computational framework and havedemonstrated that our LF conforms to these constraints.
And finally, we used our rep-resentation i an implementation that was capable of processing nontrivial examples.There are two topics that we have only touched on in this paper: the extractionof information from context and the handling of syntactic ambiguity.
Though LF con-strains the information sought by a contextual module, it does not completely specifya strategy for locating and processing contextual information.
A single parse tree canbe automatically mapped into LE However, in syntactically ambiguous sentences (e.g.,Fred saw the bird with his binoculars) more than one parse is possible.
A solution is toallow multiple LFs for a sentence (though this would violate the compactness con-straint).
Another solution, which we are currently pursuing, is to associate LFs with aparse forest for the sentence (resulting in a compact representation for the parse treesand logical forms).AcknowledgmentsThis paper contains results from theauthor's thesis in the Computer ScienceDepartment at Brown University.
The paperhas benefited from discussions with EugeneCharniak, Leora Morgenstern, Tom Dean,Paul Harper, Kate Sanders, and FredericEvans.
It has also benefited from the helpfulsuggestions ofthe referees.
The work wassupported in part by the NSF grants IST8416034, IST 8515005, and IST 9011179 andONR grant N00014-79-C-0529, and AFOSRgrant F49620-88-c-0132.ReferencesAllen, James (1987).
Natural LanguageUnderstanding.
The Benjamin/CummingsPublishing Company.Alshawi, Hiyan, and van Eijck, Jan (1989).
"Logical forms in the core languageengine."
In Proceedings, 27th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics.
Vancouver, Canada, 25-32.Bach, Emmon, and Partee, Barbara (1980).
"Anaphora nd semantic structure."
InPapers from the Parasession on Pronouns andAnaphora, edited by Jody Kreiman andA.
E. Ojeda, Chicago Linguistic Society,1--40.Charniak, Eugene, and McDermott, Drew V.(1985).
Introduction to Artificial Intelligence.Addison-Wesley.Creaney, Norman, and McTear, Michael E(1990).
The Incremental Disambiguation fQuantifier Scoping Ambiguities.Unpublished manuscript, University ofUlster, N. Ireland.Dowty, David R.; Wall, Robert E.; andPeters, Stanley (1981).
Introduction toMontague Semantics.
D. Reidel PublishingCompany.Evans, Gareth (1980).
"Pronouns."
LinguisticInquiry, 11,337-362.Geach, Peter T. (1962).
Reference andGenerality.
Cornell University Press.Harper, Mary P. (1988).
"Representingpronouns in logical form: Computationalconstraints and linguistic evidence."
InProceedings, 7th National Meetings of AAAI.Saint Paul, Minnesota, 712-717.Harper, Mary P. (1989).
"The representationof noun phrases in logical form.
"Memorandum CS-89-46, BrownUniversity, Providence, Rhode Island.Harper, Mary P. (1990).
The representation fnoun phrases in logical form.
Doctoraldissertation, Brown University,Providence, Rhode Island.Heim, Irene (1982).
The semantics of definiteand indefinite noun phrases.
Doctoraldissertation, University of Massachusetts,Amherst, Massachusetts.Hintikka, Jaako (1979).
"Quantifiers in logicand quantifiers in natural language."
InGame Theoretical Semantics, edited byE.
Saarinen, 81-117.
D. Reidel.Hintikka, Jaako, and Kulas, Jack (1985).Anaphora nd Definite Descriptions: TwoApplications of Game-Theoretical Semantics.D.
Reidel.Hobbs, Jerry R. (1983).
"An improper460Mary R Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Formtreatment of quantification i ordinaryEnglish."
In Proceedings, 21st AnnualMeeting of Annual Meeting of Association forComputational Linguistics.
Cambridge,Massachusetts, 57-63.Hornstein, Norbert (1984).
Logic as Grammar:An Approach to Meaning in NaturalLanguage.
MIT Press, 277-322.Kamp, Hans (1981).
"A theory of truth andsemantic representation."
In FormalMethods in the Study of Language, Volume 1,edited by Jeroen Groenendijk, TheoJanssen, and Martin Stokhof.Mathematische C ntrum.Kartunnen, Lauri (1969).
"Pronouns andvariables."
In Proceedings, Fifth RegionalMeeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society.108-116.Klein, Ewan (1987).
"VP ellipsis in DRtheory."
In Studies in DiscourseRepresentation a d the Theory of GeneralizedQuantifiers, edited by J. Groenendijk,D.
de Jongh, and M. Stokhof.
Foris.161-187.Lewis, David (1979).
"Score keeping in alanguage game."
In Journal of PhilosophicalLogic, 8(3), 339-359.May, Robert (1985).
Logical Form: Its Structureand Deviation.
MIT Press.Montague, Richard (1970).
"Universalgrammar."
Theoria, 36, 373-398.Morgenstern, Leora (1988).
Foundations of alogic of knowledge, action, and communication.Doctoral dissertation, New YorkUniversity, New York, New York.Partee, Barbara, and Bach, Emmon (1981).
"Quantification, pronouns, and VPanaphora."
In Formal Methods in the Studyof Language, Volume 1, edited by JeroenGroenendijk, Theo Janssen, and MartinStokhof.
Mathematische C ntrum,445--481.Pollack, Martha E., and Pereira, FernandoC.
N. (1988).
"An integrated frameworkfor semantic and pragmaticinterpretation."
In Proceedings, 26th AnnualMeeting of Annual Meeting of Association forComputational Linguistics.
Buffalo, NewYork 75--86.Reinhart, Tanya (1983).
Anaphora ndSemantic Interpretation.
Croom Helm.Roberts, Craige (1987).
Modal subordination,anaphora, nd distributivity.
Doctoraldissertation, University of Massachusetts,Amherst, Massachusetts.Ross, John R. (1967).
Constraints on variablesin syntax.
Doctoral dissertation, MIT,Cambridge, Massachusetts.Russell, Bertram (1971).
"Reference."
InReadings in the Philosophy of Language,edited by J. E Rosenberg and C. Travis.Prentice-Hall, 163-175.Sag, Ivan A.
(1976).
Deletion and logical form.Doctoral dissertation, MIT, Cambridge,Massachusetts.Schubert, Lenhart K., and Pelletier, FrancisJ.
(1984).
"From English to logic:Context-free computation of'conventional' logical translations.
"American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics, 10, 165-176.Sells, Peter; Zaenen, Annie; and Zec, Draga(1985).
"Reflexivization variation:Relations between syntax, semantics, andlexical structure."
In Studies in GrammaticalTheory and Discourse Structure, Volume 1,edited by M. Iida, S. Wechsler, andD.
Zec.
CSLI.Webber, Bonnie L. (1978).
A formal approachto discourse anaphora.
Doctoral dissertation,Harvard University, Cambridge,Massachusetts.Webber, Bonnie L. (1983).
"So what can wetalk about now?"
In Computational Modelsof Discourse, edited by M. Brady andR.
Berwick, 331-371.
MIT Press.Williams, Edwin S. (1977).
"Discourse andlogical form."
Linguistic Inquiry, 8,101-139.461Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4Appendix A: The Syntax and Semantics of Logical FormIn this appendix, we provide a syntax and semantics for our logical form (adapted fromMorgenstern \[1988\]).
We represent a sentence S using the formula ~-, ,~(w)?, where r isa term representing the subject and )~(w)?
is the lambda function representing the VP.A.1 Syntax1.
The logical constants: -~, V, A, 4 ,  ,-% ), (, =, V, 3, :, \[, )~.
We often useEnglish equivalents of the logical constants (e.g., and for A).2.
Nonlogical constants: These include numerical constants (e.g., 1, 2, etc.
),character constants (e.g., A, b, etc.
), nonnumerical, noncharacterconstants (e.g., Fred34).3.
Variables: For example, x, y, z.4.
Predicate symbols: For example, run, boy, etc.5.
Function symbols: For example, def4, indef66, hiss6.We will also characterize terms, q-terms, f-terms, atomic formulae, well-formed for-mulae, and sentences.1.
Terms: A term is any expression that refers to an object.
Formally, theyare defined by the following rules:(a) If T is a constant, T is a term.
(b) If T is a variable, ~- is a term.
(c) If 7-1, T2,.
?., Tn are terms, and 0 is an n-ary function symbol, then(0 "/'15"2... "/-n) is a term.2.
Q-term: We introduce the idea of a q-term to the syntax.
A q-term is aquantifier, restriction (which is a well-formed formula), and variableused as a pseudo-term in a formula.
The meaning of a q-term will beintroduced in the section on semantics.
For example, \[V~: ~ ~\] is aq-term, where ~ is a variable and ~ is a well-formed formula.3.
F-term: We introduce the idea of an f-term to the syntax.
An f-termconsists of a function and a restriction (which is a well-formed formula).The meaning of an f-term will be introduced in the section on semantics.For example, ((0 T 1 T2 .
.
.
T n) \] ~d) is an f-term, where ~b is a well-formedformula.4.
Atomic formula: If 7r is an n-ary predicate symbol, and ~-1,'r2,..., rn areterms, f-terms or q-terms, then Or T1~-2 ?
.. ~-n) is an atomic formula.5.
Well-formed formula: well-formed formulas are defined by the followingformation rules:(a) If 4) is an atomic formula, then it is a well-formed formula.
(b) If ~ is a well-formed formula T1----T 2 and ~-1 and T 2 are terms,then ~ is a well-formed formula.
(c) If ~ is a well-formed formula, then ~ is a well-formed formula.
(d) If ~1 and ~2 are well-formed formulae, then (or ~1 ~2), (ora ~1~2), (and ~1 02), (if ~1 ~2), and (iff ~1 ~2) are well-formedformulae.462Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Form.
(e)(f)(g)If ?
is a well-formed formula and a is a variable, then Va ?
and3a ?
are well-formed formulae.If ?
is a formula containing q-terms or f-terms, then thatformula is well-formed.If ?
is a well-formed formula and r is a term, q-term, or f-term,then T, A(X)?
is a well-formed formula.Sentences: Sentences are well-formed formulae that do not contain freevariables and are capable of being mapped to a truth value, whichrequires:(a) the refinement of the meanings of pronoun functions andanaphoric definite functions,(b) the simplification of the argument list of nonanaphoric definitefunctions,(c) the selection of one statement in ora forms,(d) the determination of quantifier scoping,(e) the replacement existential variables not in the scope of negationwith indefinite functions,(f) the replacement of dummy VPs.Note that ora is used as a device (outside of the logical system) forupdating LF with additional (though ambiguous) information or forenumerating all possible meanings for a LEA.2 SemanticsThe model M for language L.1.
Domain D of objects in the world.2.
A mapping assigning each nonlogical constant of the language amember of the domain.3.
A mapping assigning each n-ary predicate of L a set consisting ofn-tuples that can be formed out of elements of D.4.
A mapping assigning each n-ary function of L a set of n + 1 tuplesformed from the elements of D.We define the value of a constant erm T under interpretation M as follows:1.
If ~- is a constant, then the value of T under M is the element of D that Mmaps to -r.2.
If 7 is of the form (8 T1 T2... Tn) where ~ is an n-ary function symbol, cr 1is the value for ~-1, or2 is the value for 72,.. .
,  an is the value for ~-n, and\[or1, or2, ?
?., an, cr\] is an element in the set of n + 1 tuples that M maps to 8,then cr is the value of T.To this we add:1.
If (pro/ T1 T2.
.
.
Tn) Occurs in a formula ?
and T1,...,Tn are terms and forany Ti that is a variable bound by A(Ti), the lambda operator must have463Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4.scope over the function.
Also for any variable Tj not bound by a lambdaoperator, then if there is an operator over Tj contained as a q-term in theformula containing the pronoun function (or in a higher formula), thenthat operator opj has scope over the pronoun function.If (defi ~-~ T2... Tn) occurs in a formula ~ and T1,..., Tn are terms and forany "ri that is a variable bound by A('ri), then the lambda operator hasscope over the function.
Also for any variable Tj not bound by a lambdaoperator, then if there is an operator over ~-j contained in a q-term in thesame formula (or in a higher formula) as the function but outside of thefunction's restriction, then that operator opj has scope over the function.On the other hand, if for any ~-j that is a variable whose operator is auniversal or an existential contained in the function's restriction, thefunction can receive one of the following 2 meanings:1. opjT"j (defi "/-1 T2 ' ' '  ~ ' ' '  Tn)2.
(defi "r1~2... ~9-1 "~+1 ... ~',))What it means for a sentence ~ to be true under an interpretation M:1.
If 6 is an atomic sentence (i.e., ?
is of the form Or ~-1,..., T,) where 0-i isthe value of ~-1,.
?., and 0-, is the value of ~-n), then M ~ ~b if and only if\[0-1,..., 0-,\] is a member of the set that M assigns to 7r.2.
If ~b has the form -~1, where q~ is an atomic sentence of the form (~r~-~,... ,Tn) and 0" 1 is the value of z~,..., and 0-n is the value of ~-n), then M~ if and only if \[0-~,..., o-n\] is in the antiextension of the set that Massigns to 7r.3.
If ~ has the formboth.4.
If ?
has the form5.
If ?
has the formboth.6.
If ~b has the formM~q~landM(~1 V ~2, M ~ ~b if and only if M ~ ~bl or M ~ ~2 or~1 /k 02, M ~ ~b if and only if M ~ ~1 and M ~ ~2.q~l ---* ~2, M ~ (~ if and only if M ~ -~bl or M ~ (~2 or~bl ~ ~b2, M ~ ~b if and only if M ~ ~bl and M ~ (~2 or7+2.7.
For sentences of the form Va~b or 3c~b, we use fl-variants.
If M and M'are interpretations with identical domains and fl is a constant, M is afl-variant of M' if M and M' differ only in what they assign to ft.1) If ~b has the form Va~b, M ~ ~ if and only if, for all M t, if Mt is afl-variant of M, M' ~ ~(fl/c~), where ~b(fl/c~) is the expressionobtained by substituting fl for all free occurrences c~ in ~b.2) If ~ has the form ~a~b, M ~ q~ if and only if, for some M', if M' isa fl-variant of M, M' ~ ~b(fl/c~), where ~b(fl/o~) is the expressionobtained by substituting fl for all free occurrences c~ in ~b.8.
If ~b has the form T, A(x)~b2 and ~- is a term, then M ~ ~ if and only if M~!2 (where ~b~ is ~\]~2(T/X)).9.
If ~b has the form % A(x)~b2 and ~- is the q-term \[Vc~: ~bl c~\], then M ~ ~b ifand only if M ~ V(~ (if ~bl ~b~) (where ~ is ~b2(a/x)).464Mary P. Harper Ambiguous Noun Phrases in Logical Form10.
If ~ has the form r, Mx)42 and r is the q-term \[3a: 41 a\], then M ~ q~ ifand only if M ~ 3a (and 41 4~) (where 4' is 42(a/x)).
211.
If ~ has the form r, ,~(x)42 and r is the f-term ((0 rl r2.. .
rn) I 41), thenM ~ ~ if and only if M ~ (and 41 4~) (where 4~ is 42((0 rl r2.
.
.
rn)/X)Additionally:1.
If ((0 "1-1 T2 .
.
.
Tn) I 41) is contained in a formula G the formula isequivalent to (and 8' 41), where 8' is the formula obtained by replacingthe f-term with (0 rl r2.
.
.
rn) in 8.2.
If (Tr \[oplal: 4\] .
.
.)
is a formula, then this is equivalent to:opl (and 4 (Tr al ... )) if opl is 3 or opl (if 4 Or O~1 .
.
.  ))
if Opl is V.3.
If (Tr .
.
.
\[opjozj: 4j  OLj\] .
.
.
\[opiozi: 4i Oq\] .
.
.  )
and o~j is free in 4i then opjajmust have scope over opi.4.
If 7"1, ~(oL1)(Tr .
.
.
\[opioq: 4 i  oq\] .
.
.  )
and opi  is an existential operator, thenreplace the q-term with an f-term, where the function's argumentsinclude all of the variables corresponding to operators that have scopeover it (possibly including al)) and replace all occurrences of Oz i with thefunction.5.
If "/-1, "~(OZ1)(TI" .
.
.
\[opiozi: 4i  Oq\] .
.
.  )
and OL 1 is free in 4i then ~(al) musthave scope over opi.6.
Or \[OplOq: 41 Oll\] \ [op2ot2:42 OL2\] .
.
.
\[OpnOln: 4n OZn\]) is consistent with theset of meanings (using ora to enumerate them) derived by enumeratingall sentences with a legal partial order of the quantifiers given the abovequantifier scoping constraints: oplal , op2oz2,..., and OpnO~ n. To map thesentence to a truth-value, one partial order must be selected.465
