Computer Rules, Conversational RulesDav id  Chapman"Arris Pharmaceutical CorporationThere has been much controversy recently as to whether the rules of interaction discovered byconversation analysts are amenable to use by computers (Gilbert 1990; Hirst 1991; Luff, Gilbert,and Frohlich 1990).
Button (1990) has argued that the rules of conversation are of a differentontological category than the rules used by computers, and that this means computers cannot beprogrammed to engage in conversation.
Others (Fraser and Wooffitt 1990; Frohlich and Luff 1990;Gilbert, Wooffitt, and Fraser 1990) have argued to the contrary that the rules of conversation canbe captured in a program, and indeed that some have been.
I will argue for a third position.
Buttonis right in his critique of existing attempts to import conversation analysis into computationallinguistics and in his argument that there is a rule type mismatch.
His arguments do not, however,show that computers cannot in principle be programmed toengage in conversation.
I will argueby analogy to computer network protocols that an interactionist computational interpretation ofthe conversation analytical rules is possible, and that Button's critique can thereby be bypassed.Button (1990) has argued that computers cannot engage in conversation because therules of computation are of a different sort than the rules of conversation.
The rules(or programs) that govern computers?
are explicitly represented,?
are causally efficacious, directly engendering the activities they describe,so that?
they cannot be violated, and thus?
have the force of mathematical laws.The rules of conversation that have been discovered bY conversation analysts (Heritage1984), on the other hand,?
are typically not represented by their users, 1?
are not causally efficacious, but nevertheless?
apply uniformly, even when they are violated, and?
have the force of social norms.If these properties eem odd, let us consider some examples.
On the first point, mostof us are unaware of the role that gaze direction plays in the selection of the next?
Arris Pharmaceutical Corporation, 385 Oyster Point Boulevard, Suite 12, South San Francisco, CA94080.1 Once discovered, they may be represented by conversation a alysts, who also of course use them.?
1992 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4speaker in three-way conversations (Goodwin 1980).
A conversation analyst wouldargue that though it is logically possible that we unconsciously represent rules aboutgaze direction, there is no evidence for that.
The other three points may be illustratedby the rule that you should shake the hand of a person you are introduced to.
This ruleis not a physical law; you are able to violate it at will.
Nevertheless, the rule applieseven when you have violated it: the person you have been introduced to is liable onthe basis of the rule to consider you rude.
You are, then, liable to be held to account forthe violation; you may get an unfortunate r putation.
Thus the normative character.These four properties are summarized by conversation analysts in two terms: peopleare said to orient to rules, rather than being governed by them, and rules are viewedas a resource in conversation, ot a determining factor}Button argues that the incompatibility between these sorts of rules implies (1)that recent attempts to import rules from conversation analysis into computationallinguistics are misguided, and (2) that computers cannot, in principle, participate inconversation.
I believe he is right on the first count and wrong on the second.The book Computers and Conversation (Luff, Gilbert, and Frohlich 1990) describesseveral systems (Frohlich and Luff 1990; Gilbert, Wooffitt, and Fraser 1990) that at-tempt to incorporate rules taken from conversation analysis into natural anguageinterface systems.
In these systems, conversational rules, such as those of turn taking,are explicitly represented asdata structures in a grammar or formal rule system andare used as the basis of a natural language processing program.
Since these rules areexplicit, causally govern action, and cannot be violated, they are of a quite differentcharacter than the conversation analytical rules that inspired them.Does this matter?
It depends on one's purposes.
For building better human/com-puter interfaces, this transformation in rule type will be perfectly justified if indeedit results in interfaces that are easier to use than ones not inspired by conversationanalysis.
This is an engineering question, not a foundational one, and it can only beanswered empirically, not analytically.
If, however, one wishes to better understandhuman interaction by computational modeling, the transformation is indeed troubling.The four properties of conversational rules seem to be central characteristics of humanaction more generally (Dreyfus 1979).
We are, as Button says, "going up a blind alley"if we continue to ignore this mismatch in rule type.The easiest response to this difficulty is to suggest, as Hirst (1991) has, thatButton seems to be saying nothing more than that \[conversation a -alytical\] rules must be represented declaratively, not procedurally, sothat they can be deliberately and explicitly invoked with a view totheir effect.
But far from precluding their use by a computer, this ar-gument suggests that they fit very nicely into present-day AI reasoningsystems!This approach as been pursued by Fraser and Wooffitt (1990).
They propose that con-versational rules are explicitly represented and manipulated by metarules (Davis 1980).The metarules can choose to violate base-level rules under appropriate circumstances.Thus the base-level rules are not causally efficacious and do not directly determineaction.
They can, however, be used when violated to explain another agent's actions.However, this valiant attempt fails to capture the conversation analytical notionof rule.
First, Fraser and Wooffitt's rules are still representations.
The conversation an-alytical perspective is not that rules should be represented declaratively, but that they2 For one attempt o explicate these ideas in an AI context, see Agre and Chapman (1990).532David Chapman Computer Rules, Conversational Rulesshould not be represented at all.
3 Second, though individual rules in the implementedsystem are not causally efficacious, the set of them is; the logic of the group of themcannot be violated.
Third, there is no account of the sense in which the rules have theforce of social norms.We have thus far considered Button's first claim, that the type mismatch betweenconversational and computer rules means that direct ranslation of the former into thelatter falsifies their nature.
Let us now consider his second claim, that this implies thatcomputers cannot engage in conversation.Button hasn't shown that computers can't orient to rules, just that in current AIpractice they don't.
To see why Button's objections need not be fatal, we need tounderstand the interactionist perspective of conversation analysis, and to see how thisperspective might be interpreted computationally.Although the subject matter of conversation analysis is roughly the same as thatof computational linguistics, the goals of the two fields are fundamentally different.Conversation analysis does not seek explanations of linguistic behavior.
It is concernedrather with describing patterns of interaction between people.
Because it is not lookingfor causal explanations, and because it is concerned with inter-individual phenomena,it is not concerned with things-in-the-head such as representations.
Conversation anal-ysis does not deny that there are things-in-the-head; it is simply uninterested becausethey are seen as irrelevant to its goals.
It is, thus, not part of cognitive science, andwhat counts as progress in each discipline does not look like progress to the other.These ideas may be easiest to understand by way of an analogy.
Consider a com-puter workstation running a network file system that lets you access files on a remotefile server.
The client and server communicate via a network file protocol such as FTPor NFS.
This protocol is a set of rules that specify how the client and server are tointeract.
However, the protocol does not appear in the network file system implemen-tation: it isn't a data structure, procedure, set of procedures, or any other thing-in-the-computer.
It is merely a specification.
In fact, the computer does not represent theprotocol it uses.
That's probably just as well, because representing and manipulatingthe protocol--as a set of first-order axioms in a theorem prover, for instance--wouldbe a difficult and computationally inefficient way to build a network file system.Having concluded that the protocol is not in the computer, should we supposeinstead that it is in the environment?
Or, by analogy, having abandoned the mental-ist supposition that patterns of action result from representations of those patterns,must we accept he behaviorist supposition that action is patterned by stimuli n theenvironment?The environment of a computer on the net is another computer on the net.
Butif the protocol is not in the one, it is not in the other either, so that doesn't help any.The protocol is written down in a natural language document called an RFP; but thatdoesn't play any role in the actual operation of the file system.
The protocol may alsobe represented in the head of the file system's writer.
These representations do playa causal (because historical) role in the operation of the network code; but not in theusual sense in which representations play a role in action in AI.
The representationsin the designer's head can change (he may forget the protocol) without affecting theoperation of the network code.To return to the conversational rules case, the observation that the network proto-col is in the head of the programmer is irrelevant, because there's no programmer inwhose head the conversation analytical rules would live.
Similarly, although network3 Hirst's confusion on this point is understandable; Button's exposition does not make the point explicit.533Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4protocols are typically written down on paper, the rules of conversation mostly aren'tbecause they mostly haven't been discovered yet.Thus, the interactionist perspective of conversation analysis idesteps the mental-ism/behaviorism debate.
4 For conversation analysis, the phenomena of interest canbe located neither in the head nor in the environment.
Like network protocols, theyare interactional.
To understand how people do what they do, one has to know aboutthings-in-the-head; butconversation analysis refuses to speculate about hese, becauseit is interested only in what people do.
Thus, for conversation analysis, rules are notcausal agents, but descriptions of regularities in interaction.
By analogy, one mightobserve network traffic and induce the structure of a protocol without any access tothe programs that use the protocol.
Indeed, in some cases this access might not helpmuch; it is notorious that the uucp protocol is undocumented and very hard to induceby reading the convoluted code that uses it.We can now diagnose the problems with existing computational interpretationsof conversation analysis as symptomatic of a deeper problem: the systems retain amentalist orientation, with their designers eeking to locate explanations of action inmental structures.
This orientation is endemic in AI generally; but nothing precludesinteractionist AI in principle (Agre and Chapman 1990).
In fact, the network protocolanalogy suggests tarting points for a different computational pproach to interpret-ing conversation analysis.
We'll see now, in another example, how a rule governingcomputer network communication has three of the four properties of conversationanalytical rules cited earlier: it is not represented, it is not causally efficacious, and itapplies even when it is violated.The fundamental rule of communication an Ethernet local network is that onlyone computer may transmit at a time.
If two computers try to talk at once, there is a"collision" and the messages are scrambled.
However, such collisions are unavoidableand occur regularly.
When a collision occurs, the transmitting computers detect it andengage in a "retransmit protocol" to rectify the problem.This rule has all the cited properties of conversation analytical rules except being asocial norm.
First, as with the file protocol, the Ethernet controller does not anywhererepresent or otherwise include the rule.
The rule is too pervasive and fundamentalfeature of the situation to require representation.Second, representing the rule wouldn't be useful, in any case, because it is notcausally efficacious; it cannot engender the constraint i imposes.
The problem is thatthe rule is a constraint on global interaction, ot on individual action.
A computer doesnot know when another computer is about o transmit, so it can't avoid collisions.
Therule "there shall be no collisions" could be enforced by a complex protocol that gavemachines information about when other machines might start transmitting.
But suchprotocols require significant design and don't just fall out of the interactional rule.Thus we see that representing an interactional rule is not always a help in conformingto it.As for the third property, the Ethernet collision rule applies even when it is vio-lated.
When two computers do transmit simultaneously, the rule is used to interpretthe resulting arble on the network, and the retransmit protocol is used to repair thetrouble.Thus the protocol is an interactionist (rather than mentalist) form of rule use,but it is undeniably computational.
What, then, about conversation analysis and AI?4 For a clear exposition ofhow a third alternative to mentalism and behaviorism is possible, see Preston(in press).534David Chapman Computer Rules, Conversational RulesButton is right that the conversation analytical rules should not be represented asexpert-system-like rules.
But the fact that computers are governed by one sort of rules(programs) does not preclude their orienting to another sort (such as those of conver-sation analysis).
Does the fact that the rules of conversation are not represented meanthat we must eschew Lisp and use holistic neural networks?
No.
There's nothingmystical about the guts of a network file system: procedures manipulate data struc-tures representing packets and connections and host addresses.
Yet the program usesa protocol it does not represent.Of course network communication is in almost all other respects unlike humanconversation; it would be wrong to suggest hat Ethernet controllers orient to theno-collisions rule.
But this example suggests that if the fourth issue--the normativecharacter of rules--were addressed, Button's argument may not hold water.
I thinkthis, and not the representational issue, is the hard and interesting challenge of con-versation analysis for computational linguistics.What does it mean that the rules of conversation have the force of social norms?I doubt that there can be a general answer to this question.
Conversation analysts,following Garfinkel's ethnomethodological critique of the appropriation of common-sense categories like "social norm" as theoretical terms (Garfinkel 1991; Heritage 1984),would not even attempt to answer it.
However, some elementary observations maypoint in the right direction.
First, social action is accountable in the sense that one maybe required to produce an account of the rationality of one's action.
This requirementis relatively unproblematic; t could be argued that some existing AI systems producesuch accounts.
Second, when social interaction runs into trouble, as it regularly does,the participants are required to make an effort to find the location of difficulty, todetermine which participant is responsible for the problem, and to take steps to repairit.
Third, this process of trouble location and repair is not a mechanical one; it requiresinteractive work and a commitment to negotiating the specifics of concrete marginalcases.I believe it is possible to build a natural language system whose rule use satisfiesthe first three criteria in the same way the Ethernet controller does, and whose actionis arguably subject o social norms in virtue of producing accounts, repairing misun-derstandings, and negotiating assignment of the location of difficulties.
This wouldnot show that computers can engage in conversation; there are many other obstacles.It would, however, demonstrate hat the particular problems Button raises are not thestumbling blocks.AcknowledgmentsFor helpful discussion, I'd like to thank PhilAgre, Ken Forbus, Norman Fraser, GraemeHirst, Susan Newman, Martha Pollack, BethPreston, Jeff Shrager, Penni Sibun, SusanStucky, Lucy Suchman, and Terry Winograd.This research was supported in part byNASA under Contract NAS2-13326.ReferencesAgre, Philip D., and Chapman, David(1990).
"What are plans for?"
Robotics andAutomation, 6, 17-34.Button, Graham (1990).
"Going up a blindalley: Conflating conversation analysisand computer modeling."
In Computersand Conversation, edited by Paul Luff,Nigel Gilbert, and David Frohlich, 67-90.Academic Press.Davis, Randall (1980).
"Meta-rules:Reasoning about control."
ArtificialIntelligence, 15, 179-222.Dreyfus, Hubert (1979).
What ComputersCan't Do.
Harper and Row.Fraser, N. M., and Wooffitt, R. C.
(1990).
"Orienting to rules."
In Proceedings, AAAIWorkshop on Complex Systems,Ethnomethodology and Interaction, edited byNigel Gilbert, Boston, July 1990, 69-80.Frohlich, David, and Luff, Paul (1990).
"Applying the technology of conversationto the technology for conversation."
InComputers and Conversation, edited by Paul535Computational Linguistics Volume 18, Number 4Luff, Nigel Gilbert, and David Frohlich,187-220.
Academic Press.Garfinkel, Harold (1991).
"Respecification:Evidence for locally produced, naturallyaccountable phenomena of order*, logic,reason, meaning, method, etc.
in and asof the essential haecceity of immortalordinary society, (D--an announcement ofstudies."
In Ethnomethodology andtheHuman Sciences, edited by Graham Button,10-19.
Cambridge University Press.Gilbert, Nigel, editor.
(1990).
Proceedings,AAAI Workshop on Complex Systems,Ethnomethodology and Interaction, Boston,July 1990.Gilbert, Nigel; Wooffitt, Robin; and Fraser,Norman (1990).
"Organizing computertalk."
In Computers and Conversation,edited by Paul Luff, Nigel Gilbert, andDavid Frohlich, 235-257.
Academic Press.Goodwin, Charles (1980).
"Restarts, pauses,and the achievement of a state of mutualgaze at turn-beginning."
In Language andSocial Interaction, Sociological Inquiry,edited by Don Zimmerman and CandaceWest, 50(3,4), 272-302.Heritage, John (1984).
Garfinkel andEthnomethodology.
Polity Press.Hirst, Graeme (1991).
"Does conversationanalysis have a role in computationallinguistics?"
Computational Linguistics,17(2), 211-227.Luff, Paul; Gilbert, Nigel; and Frohlich,David, editors.
(1990).
Computers andConversation, Academic Press.Preston, Beth (in press).
"Behaviorism andmentalism: Is there a third alternative?
"Synthese.536
