Empirical Studies on the Disambiguationof Cue PhrasesJulia Hirschberg*AT&T Bell LaboratoriesDiane LitmawAT&T Bell LaboratoriesCue phrases are linguistic expressions such as now and well that function as explicit indicators ofthe structure of a discourse.
For example, now may signal the beginning of a subtopic or a returnto a previous topic, while well may mark subsequent material as a response to prior material, or asan explanatory comment.
However, while cue phrases may convey discourse structure, each alsohas one or more alternate uses.
While incidentally may be used sententially as an adverbial,for example, the discourse use initiates a digression.
Although distinguishing discourse andsentential uses of cue phrases is critical to the interpretation and generation of discourse, thequestion of how speakers and hearers accomplish this disambiguation is rarely addressed.This paper eports results of empirical studies on discourse and sentential uses of cue phrases,in which both text-based and prosodic features were examined for disambiguating power.
Basedon these studies, it is proposed that discourse versus sentential usage may be distinguished byintonational features, specifically, pitch accent and prosodic phrasing.
A prosodic model thatcharacterizes these distinctions is identified.
This model is associated with features identifiablefrom text analysis, including orthography and part of speech, to permit the application of theresults of the prosodic analysis to the generation of appropriate intonational features for discourseand sentential uses of cue phrases in synthetic speech.1.
IntroductionCue phrases, words and phrases that directly signal the structure of a discourse,have been variously termed clue words, discourse markers, discourse connectives,and discourse particles in the computational linguistic and conversational nalysisliterature.
These include items such as now, which marks the introduction of a newsubtopic or return to a previous one; well, which indicates a response to previousmaterial or an explanatory comment; incidentally, by the way, and that reminds me, whichindicate the beginning of a digression; and anyway and in any case, which indicate areturn from a digression.
The recognition and appropriate generation of cue phrasesis of particular interest o research in discourse structure.
The structural informationconveyed by these phrases is crucial to many tasks, such as anaphora resolution (Grosz1977; Grosz and Sidner 1986; Reichman 1985), the inference of speaker intention andthe recognition of speaker plans (Grosz and Sidner 1986; Sidner 1985; Litman andAllen 1987), and the generation of explanations and other text (Zuckerman and Pearl1986).Despite the crucial role that cue phrases play in theories of discourse and theirimplementation, however, many questions about how cue phrases are identified anddefined remain to be examined.
In particular, the question of cue phrase polysemy hasyet to receive a satisfactory solution.
Each lexical item that has one or more discourse* 600 Mountain Avenue, Murray Hill, NJ 07974.
(D 1993 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3senses also has one or more alternate, sentential senses, which make a semantic on-tribution to the interpretation of an utterance.
So, sententially, now may be used as atemporal adverbial, incidentally may also function as an adverbial, and well may beused with its adverbial or attributive meanings.
Distinguishing between whether adiscourse or a sentential usage is meant is obviously critical to the interpretation ofdiscourse.Consider the cue phrase now.
Roughly, the sentential or deictic use of now makesreference to a span of time that minimally includes the utterance time.
This time spanmay include little more than moment of utterance, as in Example 1, or it may be ofindeterminate l ngth, as in Example 2.Example 1Fred: Yeah I think we'll look that up and possibly uh after one of your breaks Harry.Harry: OK we'll take one now.
Just hang on Bill and we'll be right back with you.Example 2Harry: You know I see more coupons now than I've ever seen before and I'll bet youhave too.These examples are taken from a radio call-in program, "The Harry Gross Show:Speaking of Your Money" (Pollack, Hirschberg, and Webber 1982), which we willrefer to as (HG82).
This corpus will be described in more detail in Section 4.In contrast, the discourse use of now signals a return to a previous topic, as in thetwo examples of now in Example 3 (HG82), or introduces a subtopic, as in Example 4(HG82).Example 3Harry: Fred whatta you have to say about this IRA problem?Fred: OK. You see now unfortunately Harry as we alluded to earlier when there is adistribution from an IRA that is taxable .. .
discussion of caller's beneficiary status...Now the five thousand that you're alluding to uh of the---Example 4Doris: I have a couple quick questions about the income tax.
The first one is myhusband is retired and on social security and in '81 he ... few odd jobs for a frienduh around the property and uh he was reimbursed for that to the tune of about $640.Now where would he where would we put that on the form?Example 5 nicely illustrates both the discourse and sentential uses of now in a singleutterance.Example 5Now now that we have all been welcomed here it's time to get on with the business ofthe conference.In particular, the first now illustrates a discourse usage, and the second a sententialusage.
This example is taken from a keynote address given by Ronald Brachman tothe First International Conference on Expert Database Systems in 1986.
We will refer to thiscorpus as RJB86.
The corpus will be described in more detail in Section 5.502Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation fCue PhrasesWhile the distinction between discourse and sentential usages sometimes eemsquite clear from context, in many cases it is not.
From the text alone, Example 6(RJB86) is potentially ambiguous between a temporal reading of now and a discourseinterpretation.Example 6Now in AI our approach is to look at a knowledge base as a set of symbolic items thatrepresent something.On the temporal reading, Example 6 would convey that 'at this moment he AI ap-proach to knowledge bases has changed;' on the discourse reading, now simply initiatesthe topic of 'the AI approach to knowledge bases.
'In this paper, we address the problem of disambiguating cue phrases in bothtext and speech.
We present results of several studies of cue phrase usage in corporaof recorded, transcribed speech, in which we examined text-based and prosodic fea-tures to find which best predicted the discourse/sentential distinction.
Based on theseanalyses, we present an intonational model for cue phrase disambiguation i speech,based on prosodic phrasing and pitch accent.
We associate this h~odel with featuresidentifiable from text analysis, principally orthography and part of speech, that canbe automatically extracted from large corpora.
On a practical evel, this associationpermits the application of our findings to the identification and appropriate gener-ation of cue phrases in synthetic speech.
On a more theoretical level, our findingsprovide support for theories of discourse that rely upon the feasibility of cue phrasedisambiguation to support the identification of discourse structure.
Our results pro-vide empirical evidence suggesting how hearers and readers may distinguish betweendiscourse and sentential uses of cue phrases.
More generally, our findings can be seenas a case study demonstrating the importance of intonational information to languageunderstanding and generation.In Section 2 we review previous work on cue phrases and discuss the generalproblem of distinguishing between discourse and sentential uses.
In Section 3 weintroduce the theory of English intonation adopted for our prosodic analysis (Pierre-humbert 1980; Beckman and Pierrehumbert 1986).
In Section 4 we present our initialempirical studies, which focus on the analysis of the cue phrases now and well inmultispeaker spontaneous speech.
In Section 5 we demonstrate hat these results gen-eralize to other cue phrases, presenting results of a larger and more comprehensivestudy: an examination of all cue phrases produced by a single speaker in a 75-minutepresentation.
Finally, in Section 6 we discuss the theoretical and practical applicationsof our findings.2.
Previous Studies of Cue PhrasesThe critical role that cue phrases play in understanding and generating discoursehas often been noted in the computational linguistics literature.
For example, it hasbeen shown that cue phrases can assist in the resolution of anaphora, by indicating thepresence of a structural boundary or a relationship between parts of a discourse (Grosz1977; Grosz and Sidner 1986; Reichman 1985).
In Example 7 (RJB86), interpretation ofthe anaphor it as co-indexed with the system is facilitated by the presence of the cuephrases say and then, marking potential antecedents in "as an expert database for anexpert system" as structurally unavailable.503Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Example 7If the system attempts to hold rules, say as an expert database for an expert system, thenwe expect it not only to hold the rules but to in fact apply them for us in appropriatesituations.Here, say indicates the beginning of a discourse subtopic and then signals a returnfrom that subtopic.
Since the potential but incorrect antecedents occur in the subtopic,while the pronoun in question appears in the return to the major topic, the incorrectpotential antecedents can be ruled out on structural grounds.
Without such discoursesegmentation, the incorrect potential antecedents might have been preferred, giventheir surface proximity and number agreement with the pronoun in question.
Notethat without cue phrases as explicit indicators of this topic structure, one would haveto infer the relationships among discourse segments by appeal to a more detailedanalysis of the semantic ontent of the passage.
For example, in task-oriented dialogs,plan-based knowledge could be used to assist in the recognition of discourse structure(Grosz 1977).
However, such analysis is often beyond the capabilities of current naturallanguage processing systems.
Many domains are also not task-oriented.
Additionally,cue phrases are widely used in the identification of rhetorical relations among portionsof a text or discourse (Hobbs 1979; Mann and Thompson 1983; Reichman 1985), andhave been claimed in general to reduce the complexity of discourse processing andto increase textual coherence in natural language processing systems (Cohen 1984;Litman and Allen 1987; Zuckerman and Pearl 1986).Previous attempts to characterize the set of cue phrases in the linguistic and in thecomputational literature have typically been extensional, with each cue phrase or setof phrases associated with one or more discourse or conversational functions.
In thelinguistic literature, cue phrases have been the subject of a number of theoretical anddescriptive corpus-based studies that emphasize the diversity of meanings associatedwith cue phrases as a class, within an overarching framework of function such asdiscourse cohesiveness or conversational moves,  and the diversity of meanings thatan individual item can convey (Halliday and Hassan 1976; Schiffrin 1987; Schourup1985; Warner 1985).In the computational literature, the functions assigned to each cue phrase, whileoften more specific than those identified in the linguistics literature, are usually the-ory or domain-dependent.
Reichman (1985) and Hobbs (1979) associate groups of cuephrases with the rhetorical relations among segments of text that they signal; in theseapproaches, the cue phrase taxonomy is dependent upon the set of rhetorical rela-tions assumed.
Alternatively, Cohen (1984) adopts a taxonomy of connectives basedon Quirk (1972) to assign each class of cue phrase a function in her model of argu-ment understanding.
Grosz and Sidner (1986), in their tripartite model of discoursestructure, classify cue phrases based on the changes they signal to the attentionaland intentional states.
Zukerman (1986) presents a taxonomy of cue phrases basedon three functions in the generation of tutorial explanations: knowledge organization,knowledge acquisition, and affect maintenance.
Table 14 in the Appendix comparesthe characterization f items classed as cue phrases in a number of these classificationschemes.The question of cue phrase sense ambiguity has been noted in both the compu-tational and the linguistic literature, although only cursory attention has been paid tohow disambiguation might take place.
A common assumption in the computationalliterature is that hearers can use surface position within a sentence or clause to distin-guish discourse from sentential uses.
In fact, most systems that recognize or generatecue phrases assume a canonical (usually first) position for discourse cue phrases within504Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litrnan Disambiguation fCue Phrasesthe clause (Reichman 1985; Zuckerman and Pearl 1986).
Schiffrin (1987) also assumesthat discourse uses of cue phrases are utterance initial.However, discourse uses of cue phrases can in fact appear noninitially in a clause,as illustrated by the item say in Example 8 (RJB86).Example 8However, if we took that language and added one simple operator which we calledrestriction which allowed us for example to form relational concepts like say, son anddaughter, that is a child who is always male or is always female.Also, sentential usages can appear clause initially, as in Example 9 (RJB86).Example 9We've got to get to some inferential capability.
Further meaning of the structures icrucially important.Furthermore, surface clausal position itself may be ambiguous in the absence of or-thographic disambiguation.
Consider Example 10 (HG82).Example 10Evelyn: I see.
So in other words I will have to pay the full amount of the uh of the taxnow what about Pennsylvania state tax?
Can you give me any information on that?Here, now would be assigned a sentential interpretation if associated with the preced-ing clause, I will have to pay the full amount of the.., tax now, but a discourse interpretationif associated with the succeeding clause, Now what about Pennsylvania state tax?
Thus,surface position alone appears inadequate to distinguish between discourse and sen-tential usage.However, when we listen to examples such as Example 10, we have little difficultyin identifying a discourse meaning for now.
Similarly, the potentially troublesome casecited in Example 6 is easily disambiguated when one listens to the recording itself.What is missing from transcription that helps listeners to make such distinctions easily?Halliday and Hassan (1976, p. 268) note that their class of continuatives, whichincludes items such as now, of course, well, anyway, surely, and after all (i.e., items alsocommonly classed as cue phrases), vary intonationally with respect to cohesive func-tion.
In particular, continuatives are often "reduced" intonationally when they function"cohesively" to relate one part of a text to another (i.e., in their discourse use), un-less they are "very definitely contrastive'; that is, continuatives are unaccented, withreduced vowel forms, unless they are marked as unusually prominent intonationally.For example, they note that, if now is reduced, it can indicate "the opening of a newstage in the communication," such as a new point in an argument or a new incidentin a story.
On the other hand, noncohesive uses, which we would characterize assentential, tend to be of nonreduced, accented forms.So, perhaps it is the intonational information present in speech, but missing gen-erally in transcription, which aids hearers in disambiguating between discourse andsentential uses of cue phrases.
Empirical evidence from more general studies of theintonational characteristics of word classes tends to support his possibility.
Studies ofportions of the London-Lund corpus such as Altenberg (1987) have provided intona-tional profiles of word classes including discourse items, conjunctions and adverbialsthat are roughly compatible with the notion that cue phrases tend to be deaccented,505Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3although the notion of discourse item used in this study is quite restrictive, l However,while the instance of now in Example 6 is in fact reduced, as Halliday and Hassan(1976) propose, that in Example 10, while interpreted as a discourse use, is nonethe-less clearly intonationally prominent.
Furthermore, both of the nows in Example 5 arealso prominent.
So it would seem that intonational prominence alone is insufficient todisambiguate b tween sentential nd discourse uses.In this paper we present a more complex model of intonational features and text-based features that can serve to disambiguate between sentential and discourse in-stances of cue phrases.
Our model is based on several empirical studies (Hirschbergand Litman 1987; Litman and Hirschberg 1990): two studies of individual cue phrasesin which we develop our model, and a more comprehensive study of cue phrases as aclass, in which we confirm and expand our model.
Before describing these studies andtheir results, we must first describe the intonational features examined in our analyses.3.
Phrasing and Accent in EnglishThe importance of intonational information to the communication f discourse struc-ture has been recognized in a variety of studies (Butterworth 1975; Schegloff 1979;Brazil, Coulthard, and Johns 1980; Hirschberg and Pierrehumbert 1986; Pierrehumbertand Hirschberg 1990; Silverman 1987).
However, just which intonational features areimportant and how they communicate discourse information is not well understood.Prerequisite, however, to addressing these issues is the adoption of a framework ofintonational description to identify which intonational features will be examined andhow they will be characterized.
For the studies discussed below, we have adoptedPierrehumbert's (1980) theory of English intonation, which we will describe brieflybelow.In Pierrehumbert's phonological description of English, intonational contours, ortunes, are described as sequences of low (L) and high {H) tones in the fundamentalfrequency (F0) contour, the physical correlate of pitch.
These tunes have as theirdomain the intonational phrase, and are defined in terms of the pitch accent{s), phraseaccent(s), and boundary tone, which together comprise an intonational phrase.One of the intonational features we examine with respect o cue phrases is theaccent status of each cue; that is, whether or not the cue phrase is accented, or madeintonationally prominent, and, if it is accented, what type of pitch accent it bears.Pitch accents usually appear as peaks or valleys in the F0 contour.
They are alignedwith the stressed syllables of lexical items, making those items prominent.
Note that,while every lexical item in English has a lexically stressable syllable, which is therhythmically most prominent syllable in the word, not every stressable syllable is infact accented; so, lexical stress is distinguished from pitch accent.
Lexical items thatdo bear pitch accents are said to be accented, while those not so marked are said tobe deaccented.
Items that are deaccented tend to be function words or items that aregiven in a discourse (Prince 1981).
For example, in Figure 1, now is deaccented, whilecue  is accented.
Contrast Figure 1 with Figure 2.
For ease of comparison, we present F0contours of synthetic speech, where the x-axis represents ime and the y-axis, frequencyi n  Hz .
2 In Figure 1, the first F0 peak occurs on let 's;  in Figure 2, the first peak occurredon now.
The most prominent accent in a phrase is termed the nuclear stress, or nuclear1 In the 48-minute text Altenberg examines, he finds only 23 discourse markers, or about 17% of whatour study of a similar corpus described in Section 5 would have predicted.2 The synthetic ontours were synthesized by the Bell Labs Text-to-Speech System (Olive and Liberman1985) and displayed using WAVES speech analysis oftware (Talkin 1989).506Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation of Cue Phrasesm ~ m ,  .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
, .
.
.
.
.I IH I IN,~ z.t-qFigure 1Deaccenting now.Tim: D.O0 lOOSe( D: ~ 04500 L: O.OODO0 R: 2.0'4500 (F; U,49IIIIIIN(~ let " IFigure 2H* accent on now.accent, of the phrase.
In both Figures 1 and 2, cue bears nuclear stress.
In addition tothe F0 excursions illustrated in Figures 1-5, accented syllables tend to be longer andlouder than deaccented syllables, so there are a number of acoustic correlates of thisperceptual phenomenon.In Pierrehumbert's description of English, there are six types of pitch accent, allcomposed of either a single low (L*) or high (H*) tone or an ordered pair of low andhigh tones, such as L+H* or H*+L.
In each case, the tone aligned with the stressedsyllable of the accented lexical item is indicated by a star (*); thus, if telephone is utteredwith a L*+H accent, the low tone (L*) is aligned with the stressed syllable ~tel~, andthe H tone falls on the remainder of the word.
For simple pitch accents, of course, the507Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Figure 3L* accent on now.i ,,,, Time: 2.06500~ec 2m07000 L: 0.000O0LB5,,mmml~ ......... m m mXcu~ phra~Figure 4An L+H* accent.single tone is aligned with the stress.
The pitch accents in Pierrehumbert 's descriptionof English include two simple tones- -H* and L*- -and four complex ones--L*+H,L+H*, H*+L, and I-I+L*.
The most common accent, H*, comes out as a peak on theaccented syllable (as on now in Figure 2).
L* accents occur much lower in the speaker 'spitch range than H* and are phonetically realized as local F0 minima.
The accent onnow in Figure 3 is a L*.
Figure 4 shows a version of the sentence in Figures 1-3 witha L+H* accent on the first instance of now.
Note that there is a peak on now (H*)--asthere was in Figure 2 - -but  now a striking valley (L) occurs just before this peak.508Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation fCue PhrasesIn Pierrehumbert and Hirschberg (1990), a compositional pproach to intonationalmeaning is proposed in which pitch accents are viewed as conveying informationstatus, such as newness or salience, about the denotation of the accented items andthe relationship of denoted entities, states, or attributes to speaker and hearer's mutualbeliefs about the discourse.
In particular, it is claimed that speakers use H* accentsto indicate that an item represents new information, which should be added to theirmutual belief space.
For example, standard eclarative utterances in English commonlyinvolve H* accents.
L* accents, on the other hand, are used to indicate that an itemis salient in the discourse but for some reason should not be part of what is addedto the mutual belief space; standard yes/no question contour in English employs L*accents.
The meanings associated with the H+L accents are explained in terms of theaccented item's ability to be inferred from the mutual belief space: H*+L items aremarked as inferable from the mutual belief space but nonetheless part of what is tobe added to that space; H+L* accents are inferable and not to be added to speakerand hearer's mutual beliefs.
L+H accents are defined in terms of the evocation of ascale, defined as a partially ordered set following (Hirschberg 1991): L*+H accents,often associated with the conveyance of uncertainty or of incredulity, evoke a scalebut predicate nothing of the accented item with respect o the mutual belief space;L+H* accents, commonly associated with contrastive stress, also evoke a scale but doadd information about the accented item to speaker and hearer's mutual belief space(Pierrehumbert and Steele 1987; Hirschberg and Ward 1992).Another intonational feature that is considered in our study of cue phrases isprosodic phrasing.
There are two levels of such phrasing in Pierrehumbert's heory,the intonational phrase and the intermediate phrase, asmaller sub-unit.
A well-formedintermediate phrase consists of one or more pitch accents plus a high (H) or .low (L)phrase accent.
The phrase accent controls the pitch between the last pitch accent ofthe current intermediate phrase and the beginning of the next--or the end of theutterance.
An intonational phrase is composed of one of more intermediate phrases,plus a boundary tone.
Boundary tones may be high (H%) or low (L%) also, and fallexactly at the edge of the intonational phrase.
So, each intonational phrase ends witha phrase accent and a boundary tone.A given sentence may be uttered with considerable variation in phrasing.
Forexample, the utterance in Figure 2 was produced as a single intonational phrase,whereas in Figure 5 now is set off as a separate phrase.Intuitively, prosodic phrases divide an utterance into meaningful "chunks" of in-formation (Bolinger 1989).
Variation in phrasing can change the meaning hearers assignto tokens of a given sentence.
For example, the interpretation of a sentence like Billdoesn't drink because he's unhappy is likely to change, depending upon whether it isuttered as one phrase or two.
Uttered as a single phrase, this sentence is commonlyinterpreted as conveying that Bill does indeed drink--but he cause of his drinking isnot his unhappiness.
Uttered as two phrases (Bill doesn't drink--because he's unhappy),it is more likely to convey that Bill does not drink--and the reason for his abstinenceis his unhappiness.
In effect, variation in phrasing appears to change the scope ofnegation in the sentence.
When the sentence is uttered as a single phrase the negativeis interpreted as having wide scope--over the entire phrase, and, thus, the entire sen-tence.
When Bill doesn't drink is separated from the second clause by a phrase boundary,the scope of negation is limited to just the first clause.The occurrence of phrase accents and boundary tones in the F0 contour, togetherwith other phrase-final characteristics such as pause, decrease in amplitude, glottal-ization of phrase-final syllables, and phrase-final syllable lengthening, enable us toidentify intermediate and intonational phrases in natural speech.
Identification ofpitch509Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Time: 0.38500sec 0.00000 R: (F: 0.42)66Ho~ let'~ ~ a~ ~ phra~e~Figure 5Two phrases.accents and phrase boundaries using a prosodic transcription system based on the oneemployed here has been found to be quite reliable between transcribers.
3Meaningful intonational variation has been found in studies of phrasing, choiceof accent ype and location, overall tune type, and variation in pitch range, where thepitch range of an intonational phrase is defined by its topline--roughly, the highestpeak in the F0 contour of the phrase and the speaker's baseline, the lowest pointthe speaker ealizes in normal speech, measured across all utterances.
In the studiesdescribed below, we examined each of these features, in addition to text-based features,to see which best predicted cue phrase disambiguation, and to look for associationsamong text-based and intonational features.4.
Single Cue Phrase StudiesOur first study of cue phrase disambiguation i vestigated multispeaker usage of thecue phrase now in a recorded, transcribed radio call-in program (Hirschberg and Lit-man 1987).
Our corpus consisted of four days of the radio call-in program "The HarryGross Show: Speaking of Your Money," recorded uring the week of February 1, 1982(Pollack, Hirschberg, and Webber 1982).
In this Philadelphia program, Gross offeredfinancial advice to callers; for the February 3 show, he was joined by an accountantfriend, Fred Levy.
The four shows provided approximately ten hours of conversationbetween expert(s) and callers.
The corpus was transcribed by Martha Pollack and JuliaHirschberg in 1982, in connection with another study.We chose now for this initial study for several reasons.
First, the corpus containednumerous instances of both discourse and sentential usages of now (approximately350 in all).
Second, now often appears in conjunction with other cue phrases, e.g., wellnow,  ok now,  r ight now.
This allowed us to study how adjacent cue phrases interact3 See results of several prosodic labeling experiments using ToBI, the TOnes and Break Indicestranscription system (Silverman et al 1992b, 1992a).510Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disarnbiguation f Cue Phraseswith one another.
Third, now has a number of desirable phonetic haracteristics.
Asit is monosyllabic, possible variation in stress patterns do not arise to complicate theanalysis.
Because it is completely voiced and introduces no segmental effects into theF0 contour, it is also easier to analyze pitch tracks reliably.Our model was initially developed from a sample consisting of 48 occurrences ofnow- -a l l  the instances from two sides of tapes of the show chosen at random.
Twoinstances were excluded since the phrasing was difficult o determine due to hesitationor interruption.
To test the validity of our initial hypotheses, we then replicated ourstudy with a second sample from the same corpus, the first 52 instances of now takenfrom another four randomly chosen sides of tapes.
We excluded two tokens from thesetapes because of lack of available information about phrasing or accent and five othersbecause we were unable to decide whether the tokens were discourse or sentential.Our data analysis included the following steps.
First, the authors determined sep-arately, and by ear, whether individual tokens were discourse or sentential usages andtagged the transcript of the corpus accordingly.
We then digitized and pitch-trackedthe intonational phrase containing each token, plus the preceding and succeedingintonational phrases, if produced by the same speaker.
4 Intonational features weredetermined by one of the authors from the speech and pitch tracks, separately fromthe discourse/sentential judgment.
Discourse and sentential uses were then comparedalong several dimensions:1.
Each instance of now was examined to determine if it was accented and,if so, to determine what type of accent was employed.2.
Differences in phrasing, in particular whether or not now represented anentire intermediate or intonational phrase, were identified.3.
Now's  position in its intonational nd its intermediate phrase (first, notfirst but preceded only by other cue phrases, last, or none of these) wasnoted.4.
The type of intonational contour used over the phrase in which nowoccurred was determined.5.
Whether and how now occurred adjacent to other cue phrases was noted.6.
The position of the phrase containing now with respect o speaker turnwas noted.Of these comparisons, the first three turned out to distinguish between discourseand sentential now quite reliably.
In particular, a combination of accent ype, phrasalcomposition, and phrasal position reliably distinguished between the tokens in thecorpus.4.1 Results of Intonational AnalysisOf the 100 tokens of now from the combined 48- and 52-token corpora, just over one-third of our samples (37) were judged to be sentential, and just under two-thirds (63)discourse.
The first striking difference between the two appeared in the compositionof the intermediate phrase containing the item, as illustrated in Table 1.
Of all the4 The pitch tracks in the first two studies were produced with a pitch tracker written by Mark Liberman.For the third study we used a pitch tracker written by David Talkin and WAVES speech analysissoftware (Talkin 1989) in our prosodic analysis.511Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Table 1Phrasing for now, N=100.Part of Larger Alone inIntermediate Phrase Intermediate PhraseSentential 36 1Discourse 37 26Table 2Position within intermediate phrase for now, N=100.First Last OtherSentential 5 22 10Discourse 62 1 0sentential uses of now,  only one appeared as the only item in an intermediate phrase,while 26 (41.3%) discourse nows represented entire intermediate phrases.
Of these 26,one half constituted the only lexical item in a full intonational phrase.
So, our findingssuggested that now set apart as a separate intermediate phrase is very likely to beinterpreted as conveying a discourse meaning rather than a sentential one.Another clear distinction between discourse and sentential now emerged whenwe examined the surface position of now within its intermediate phrase.
As Table 2illustrates, 62 of the 63 discourse nows (98.4%) were first-in-phrase, absolutely first orfollowed only another cue phrase in their intermediate phrase; of these, 59 (95.2%)were also absolutely first in their intonational phrase; that is, first in major prosodicphrase and not  preceded by any other cue phrases.
Only five (13.5%) sentential tokenswere first-in-phrase.
Also, while 22 (59.5%) sentential nows were phrase final, onlyone discourse token was so positioned.
So, once intermediate phrases are identified,discourse and sentential now appear to be generally distinguishable byposition withinthe phrase.Finally, discourse and sentential occurrences were distinguishable in terms of pres-ence or absence of pitch accent--and by type of pitch accent, where accented.
Becauseof the large number of possible accent ypes, and since there are competing reasonsto accent or deaccent i ems, such as accenting to indicate contrastive stress or deac-centing to indicate an item is already given in the discourse, we might expect hesefindings to be less clear than those for phrasing.
In fact, although their interpretationis more complicated, the results are equally striking.Results of an analysis of the 97 occurrences from this sample for which accenttype could be precisely determined are presented in Table 3.
Of those tokens notincluded, two discourse tokens were judged either L* or H* with a compressed pitchrange, and one discourse token was judged either deaccented or L*.
Note first thatlarge numbers of discourse and sentential tokens were uttered with a H* or complexaccent--16 (26.7%) discourse and 32 (86.5%) sentential tokens.
The chief similarity herelies in the use of the FI* accent ype, with 14 discourse uses and 14 sentential; 7 othersentential tokens are ambiguous between H* and complex.
Note also that discoursenow was much more likely overall to be deaccented--31 of the 60 discourse tokens512Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation of Cue PhrasesTable 3Accenting of discourse and sentential now, N--97.Deaccented H* or Complex L*Sentential 5 32 0Discourse 31 16 13Table 4Accenting of now in larger intonational phrases, N=72.Deaccented H* or Complex L*Sentential 5 31 0Discourse 31 0 5(51.7%) versus 5 of the 37 sentential nows (13.5%).
No sentential now was uttered witha L* accent--although 13discourse nows were.An even sharper distinction in accent ype is found if we exclude those nows thatare alone in intermediate phrase from the analysis.
Recall from Table I that all but oneof these tokens represented a discourse use.
These nows were always accented, since itis generally the case that each intermediate phrase contains at least one pitch accent.Of the discourse tokens representing entire intermediate phrases for which we candistinguish accent ype precisely, 14 bore H* accents.
This suggests that one similaritybetween discourse and sentential now- - the  frequent H* accent--might disappear ifwe limit our comparison to those tokens forming part of larger intonational phrases.In fact, such is the case, as is shown in Table 4.The majority, 31 (86.1%), of sentential nows forming part of larger intonationalphrases received a H* or complex pitch accent, while all 36 discourse nows formingpart of larger intonational phrases were deaccented or bore a L* accent.
In fact, thosediscourse nows not distinguishable from sentential by being set apart as separate in-tonational phrases were generally so distinguishable with respect o pitch accent.
Ofthe three discourse tokens whose pitch accent ype was not identifiable, which wereomitted from Table 3, two were set apart as separate intonational phrases and one wasjudged either to bear a L* pitch accent or to be deaccented.
Thus, all three could bedistinguished from sentential tokens in terms of accent type and phrasing.
Further-more, of the five deaccented sentential nows in Table 4, none was first-in-phrase, whileonly one of the deaccented iscourse tokens was similarly noninitial.
In fact, of the100 tokens in our initial study of now,  all but two were distinguishable as discourse orsentential in terms of a combination of position in phrase, phrasal composition, andaccent.Thus, we were able to hypothesize from our study of now that discourse useswere either uttered as a single intermediate phrase or in a phrase containing onlycue phrases (Discourse Type A), or uttered at the beginning of a longer intermediatephrase, or preceded only by other cue phrases in the phrase and with a L* pitch accent,or without a pitch accent (Discourse Type B).
5 Only one of the 37 cue phrases judged5 We also investigated whether the different prosodic models of discourse uses could be mapped to the513Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Cue PhrasesD iscourse /ASententialAlone in PhraseAccented or DeaccentedInitial in Larger PhraseDeaccented orL* AccentInitial in Larger PhraseH* or Complex AccentNon-Initial in Larger PhraseAccented or DeaccentedFigure 6Prosodic haracteristics of discourse and sentential uses.to be of Sentential Type was uttered as a single phrase.
If first-in-phrase, they werenearly always uttered with a H* or complex pitch accent (Sentential Type A); if notfirst-in-phrase, they could bear any type of pitch accent or be deaccented (SententialType B).
These results are summarized in Figure 6.4.2 Speaker VariabilitySince the preponderance of tokens in our sample from one professional speaker mightwell skew our results, we compared characteristics of phrasing and accent for host andnonhost data.
The results showed no significant differences between host and callertokens in terms of the hypotheses proposed above.
First, host (n=37) and callers (n=63)produced iscourse and sentential tokens in roughly similar proportions 40.5% sen-tential for the host and 34.9% for his callers.
Similarly, there was no distinction betweenhost and nonhost data in terms of choice of accent ype, or accenting versus deaccent-ing.
Our findings for position within phrase also hold for both host and nonhost data.However, in tendency to set discourse now apart as a separate intonational or interme-diate phrase, there was an interesting distinction.
While callers tended to choose fromamong the two options for discourse now in almost equal numbers (48.8% of their dis-course nows were separate phrases), the host chose this option only 27.3% of the time.However, although ost and caller data differed in the proportion of occurrences of thetwo classes of discourse now that emerge from our data as a whole, the existence of theclasses themselves was confirmed.
Where the host did not produce discourse nows setapart as separate intonational or intermediate phrases, he always produced iscoursedifferent meanings that discourse uses can convey--as discussed in Section 1 and illustrated in Table14--but found no evidence for such a mapping in our data.
However, other authors have found morepromising results for the cue phrase ok (Swora and Beckman 1991; Hockey personal communication).514Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation fCue Phrasesnows that were deaccented or accented with a L* accent.
We hypothesize, then, that,while individual speakers may choose different strategies to realize discourse now,they appear to choose from among the same limited number of options.4.3 Distinguishing Discourse and Sentential Usage in TranscriptionsOur conclusion from this study, that intonational features play a crucial role in thedistinction between discourse and sentential usage in speech, clearly poses problemsfor text.
Do readers use strategies different from hearers to make this distinction, and,if so, what might they be?
Are there perhaps orthographic orrelates of the intona-tional features that we have found to be important in speech?
As a first step towardresolving these questions, we examined the orthographic features of the transcriptsof our corpus, which, as noted in Section 3, had been prepared independently of thisstudy and without regard for intonational analysis.We examined transcriptions of all tokens of now in our combined sample to deter-mine whether prosodic phrasing was reliably associated with orthographic marking.There were no likely orthographic lues to accent type or placement, such as capi-talization, in the transcripts.
Of all 60 instances of now that were absolutely first intheir intonational phrase, 34 (56.7%) were preceded by punctuation--a comma, dash,or end punctuation--and 17 (28.3%) were first in speaker turn, and thus orthograph-ically marked by indication of speaker name.
So, in 51 (85%) cases, first position inintonational phrase coincided with orthographic indicators in the transcript.
No nowthat was not  absolutely first in its intonational phrase---for example, none that wasmerely first in its intermediate phrase was so marked.
Of those 23 nows coming lastin an intermediate or intonational phrase, however, only 14 (60.9%) were immediatelyfollowed by a similar orthographic clue.
Finally, of the 13 instances of now that formedseparate intonational phrases, only two (15.4%) were distinguished orthographicallyby being both preceded and followed by some orthographic indicator.
And none ofthe nows that formed complete intermediate phrases, but not  complete intonationalphrases, was so marked.These findings suggest hat, of the intonational features we found useful in dis-ambiguating cue phrases in speech, only the feature first in intonational phrase hasany clear orthographic orrelate.
This correlation, however, seems potentially to be auseful one.
Of the 63 discourse nows in our corpus, recall that 59 (93.7%) were firstin their intonational phrase.
Of these 59, 48 were preceded by orthographic indica-tors in the transcription, as described above.
Of sentential cues, 22 were last in theirintermediate phrase, and, of these, 13 were followed by some orthographic indicatorin the transcription.
Of 34 cue phrases that were neither preceded nor followed byorthographic markings in the transcription, the majority (21, or 61.8%) were senten-fial uses.
If we predict sentential/discourse usage based simply on the presence orabsence of preceding and succeeding orthographic markings, we would predict thatcue phrases preceded by orthographic indicators represent discourse uses, and thatphrases either followed by orthographic indicators or neither preceded nor followedwould be sentenfial uses, for a total of 82 correct predictions for the 100 cue phrases inthis study.
Thus, 82% of nows might be orthographically distinguished.
We will havemore to say on the role of orthography in disambiguating cue phrases in connectionwith the study described in Section 5.4.4 Multispeaker Study of WellBased on the findings of our study of now,  we proposed that listeners may use prosodicinformation to disambiguate discourse from sentential uses of cue phrases (Hirschbergand Litman 1987).
However, although we chose to study now for its ambiguity between515Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3discourse and sentential (temporal dverbial) uses, it may of course also be seen as rep-resentative of sense ambiguities between temporals and nontemporals or deictics andnondeictics.
Thus, if indeed our findings generalize, it might be to a class we had notintended to investigate.
To discover further evidence that our results did indeed applyto the discourse/sentential usedisambiguation, we conducted another multispeakerstudy, this time of the discourse and sentential uses of the single cue phrase well.Again, our corpus consisted of recordings of the Harry Gross radio call-in program.
Inaddition, we used tokens from several other corpora of recorded, transcribed speech,including the corpus described in Section 5.
This time we included no more than threetokens from any speaker to minimize the potential effect of speaker idiosyncracy.Our findings for this study of well were almost identical to results from the earlierstudy of now, described above.
Briefly, of the 52 instances of well we examined, allbut one token fit the model constructed from the results of the now study, depictedin Figure 6.
In particular, of the 25 sentential uses of well, none constituted a singleintermediate or intonational phrase.
Only two sentential tokens were first-in-phrase,and both of these bore H* pitch accents.
However, of the 27 discourse tokens of well, 14were indeed alone in their intonational or intermediate phrases.
All of the remaining13 occurred first-in-phrase, and, of these 12 were deaccented.
In all, 51 (98.1%) of thetokens in this study fit our model; the single counter-example was one discourse token,which bore a H* pitch accent and was part of a larger phrase.Our study of well thus appeared to confirm our earlier esults, and, in particular,to lend support o our hypothesis that cue phrases can be distinguished intonationally.However, although we had shown that two cue phrases appeared to pattern similarlyin this respect, we had still not demonstrated that our model could be extended to cuephrases in general.
To address this larger issue, we next conducted a single-speakermulti-cue phrase study.5.
The Single-Speaker/Multi-Cue Phrase StudyIn this study, we examined all cue phrases consisting of a single lexical item that wereproduced by one speaker during 75 minutes, approximately 12,500 words, of recordedspeech.
Results of a pilot study of this corpus are reported in Litman and Hirschberg(1990).
We limited ourselves here to the examination of single lexical items, since thehypothesis we had previously developed applies only to such items; e.g., it would bemeaningless to ask whether a larger phrase bears a pitch accent or not.
The corpusconsisted of a keynote address given from notes by Ronald Brachman at the FirstInternational Conference on Expert Database Systems in 1986.
This talk yielded 953 tokens,based upon a set of possible cue phrases derived from Cohen (1984), Grosz and Sidner(1986), Litman and Hirschberg (1990), Reichman (1985), Schiffrin (1987), Warner (1985),and Zuckerman and Pearl (1986).
The frequency distribution of the tokens is shownin Table 5.By far the most frequent cue phrase occurring in our corpus is the conjunctionand, representing 320 (33.6%) tokens.
The next most frequent i em is now, with only 69occurrences.
Other items occurring more than 50 times each in the corpus are but, like,or, and so.
Note that there are 444 conjunctions--and, but, and or--comprising nearlyhalf of the cue phrases in our corpus.
In addition to the items shown in Table 5, wesearched the corpus unsuccessfully for instances of the following cue phrases proposedin the literature (cf.
Table 14): accordingly, alright, alternately, alternatively, altogether,anyway, boy, consequently, conversely, fine, furthermore, gee, hence, hey, incidentally, likewise,listen, meanwhile, moreover, namely, nevertheless, nonetheless, nor, oh, though, yet.516Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation of Cue PhrasesTable 5Distribution of cue phrases (N=953).Cue Phrase Tokens Cue Phrase Tokensactually 32 next 4also 9 no 9although 8 now 69and 320 ok 6basically 5 or 63because 12 otherwise 2but 61 right 7essentially 2 say 35except 3 second 3finally 11 see 26first 21 similarly 5further 11 since 2generally 7 so 60however 8 then 13indeed 9 therefore 2like 61 well 29look 35 yes 3However, note that the set of items included in Table 14 is not identical to theset we have considered in this paper.
In particular, we do consider the items actually,basically, essentially, except, generally, no, right, since, and yes (cf.
Table 5), although theyare not considered in the studies included in Table 14.
We do not consider again, equally,hopefully, last, only, overall, still, thus, too, unless, where, whereas, and why, although thesehave been included by others in the set of possible cue phrases.The temporal pattern of cue phrase use in the corpus exhibits some interestingfeatures.
While tokens were distributed fairly evenly during the middle portion ofthe talk, the first and last portions were less regular.
The first decile of the transcript,defined by length in words, contained 140 cue phrases (14.7%), a higher proportionthan any other decile of the corpus, while the second decile contained only 73 (7.7%).And the last decile of the talk contained an even lower proportion of cue phrases--only 64 (6.7%).
So, it appears that, at least for this genre, cue phrases occur morefrequently in the introductory remarks, and less frequently in the conclusion.To classify each token as discourse or sentential, the authors separately judgedeach one by ear from the taped address while marking a transcription.
Where we couldnot make a decision, we labeled the token ambiguous; so, any token could be judged"discourse," "sentential," or "ambiguous."
The address was transcribed independentlyof our study by a member of the text processing pool at AT&T Bell Laboratories.
Inexamining the transcription, we found that 39 cue phrases had been omitted by thetranscriber: one token each of actually, essentially, or, and well, three tokens each of soand ok, nine tokens of and, and twenty tokens of now.
It seemed significant that all butfive of these were subsequently termed discourse uses by both judges--that is, thatdiscourse uses seemed somehow omissible to the transcriber.
One of the authors thenassessed each token's prosodic haracteristics, as described in Section 4.In examining our classification judgments, we were interested in areas of disagree-ment as well as agreement.
The set of tokens whose classification we both agreed uponand found unambiguous provided a testbed for our investigation of the intonational517Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Table 6Judgments for all tokens and for conjunctions alone (N=953).Type Tota l  Agreements DisagreementsClassifiable Ambiguous Partial CompleteAll 953 878 59 11 5Conjuncts 444 383 48 9 4Non-Conjuncts 509 495 11 2 1features marking discourse and sentential interpretation.
We examined the set of to-kens one or both of us found ambiguous to determine how intonation might in facthave contributed to that ambiguity.
Table 6 presents the distribution of our judgments,where classifiable includes those tokens we both assigned either discourse or senten-tial, ambiguous identifies those we both were unable to classify, partial disagreementincludes those only one of us was able to classify, and complete disagreement rep-resents those tokens one of us classified as discourse and the other as sentential.
Ofthe 953 tokens in this corpus, we agreed in our judgments of 878 cue phrases (92.1%)as discourse or sentential.
Another 59 (6.2%) tokens we both judged ambiguous.
Wedisagreed on only 16 items (1.7%); for 11 of these, the disagreement was betweenclassifiable and ambiguous.When we examined the areas of ambiguity and disagreement i  our judgments, wefound that a high proportion of these involved judgments of coordinate conjunctiontokens, and, or, and but, which, as we previously noted, represent nearly half of thetokens in this study.
Table 6 shows that, comparing conjunction with nonconjunction,we agreed on the classification of 495 (97.2%) nonconjunction tokens but only 383(86.3%) conjunctions.
We both found 48 (10.8%) conjunctions ambiguous, but only 11(2.2%) nonconjunctions; 48 of the 59 tokens we agreed were ambiguous in the corpuswere, in fact, coordinate conjunctions.
Of the 16 tokens on which we simply disagreed,13 (81.3%) were conjunctions.The fact that conjunctions account for a large number of the ambiguities we foundin the corpus and the disagreements we had about classification is not surprisingwhen we note that the discourse meanings of conjunction as described in the literature(see Table 14) seem to be quite similar to the meanings of sentential conjunction.
Forexample, the discourse use of and is defined as 'parallelism' in Cohen (1984), 'a markerof addition' or 'sequential continuity' in Schriffin (1987), and 'conjunction' in Warner(1985).
These definitions fail to provide clear guidelines for distinguishing discourseuses from sentential, as in cases such as Example 11 (RJB86).
Here, while the first andseems intuitively sentential, the second is much more problematic.Example 11But instead actually we are bringing some thoughts on expert databases from a placethat is even stranger and further away and that of course is the magical world ofartificial intelligence.However, while similarities between discourse and sentential interpretations appear tomake conjunction more difficult o classify than other cue phrases, the same similarities518Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation fCue PhrasesTable 7Prosody of classified tokens (N=878).Judgment ProsodyDiscourse SententialDiscourse 301 40Sentential 176 361(x 2 = 258.863, df = 1, p K.001)may make the need to classify them less important from either a text generation or atext understanding point of view.Once we had classified the tokens in the corpus, we analyzed them for theirprosodic and syntactic features as well as their orthographic context, in the same waywe had examined tokens for the earlier two studies.
In each case, we noted whetherthe cue phrase was accented or not and, if accented, we noted the type of accentemployed.
We also looked at whether the token constituted an entire intermediate orintonational phrase--possibly with other cue phrases--or not, and what each token'sposition within its intermediate phrase and larger intonational phrase was--first-in-phrase (again, including tokens preceded only by other cue phrases as well as tokensthat were absolutely first in intermediate phrase), last, or other.
We also examinedeach item's part of speech, using Church's (1988) part-of-speech tagger.
Finally, weinvestigated orthographic features of the transcript that might be associated with adiscourse/sentential d stinction, such as immediately preceding and succeeding punc-tuation and paragraph boundaries.
In both the syntactic and orthographic analyses wewere particularly interested in discovering how successful nonprosodic features thatmight be obtained automatically from a text would be in differentiating discourse fromsentential uses.5.1 Results of the Intonational AnalysisWe looked first at the set of 878 tokens whose classification as discourse or sententialwe both agreed upon.
Our findings from this set confirmed the prosodic model wefound in the studies described above to distinguish discourse from sentential usessuccessfully.
The distribution of these judgments with respect o the prosodic modelof discourse and sentential cue phrases depicted in Figure 6 is shown in Table 7.
Recallthat the prosodic model in Figure 6 includes the following intonational profiles: Dis-course Type A, in which a cue phrase constitutes an entire intermediate phrase, or isin a phrase containing only other cue phrases, and may have any type of pitch accent;Discourse Type B, in which a cue phrase occurs at the beginning of a larger interme-diate phrase, or is preceded only by other cue phrases, and bears a L* pitch accentor is deaccented; Sentential Type A, in which the cue phrase occurs at the beginningof a larger phrase and bears a H* or complex pitch accent; and Sentential Type B, inwhich the cue phrase occurs in noninitial position in a larger phrase.
Table 7 showsthat our prosodic model fits the new data reasonably well, successfully predicting 662(75.4%) of the classified tokens.
Of the 341 cue phrases we both judged discourse, 301(88.3%) fit the prosodic discourse model; 50 of these were of Discourse Type A and 251were of Discourse Type B.
Of the 537 tokens we both judged sentential, 361 (67.2%)fit one of the prosodic sentential models.
The overall ratio of cue phrases judged dis-519Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Table 8Prosody of classified non-conjuncts (N=495).Judgment ProsodyDiscourse SententialDiscourse 167 35Sentential 38 255(x 2 = 239.43, df = 1, p K.001)course to those judged sentential was about 2:3.
A X 2 test shows significance at the.001 level.
6 While these results are highly significant, they clearly do not match theprevious findings for now and well discussed in Section 4, in which all but three tokensfit our model.So, for this larger study, the tokens which did not fit our prosodic model remainto be explained.
In fact, there is some regularity among these counter-examples.
Forexample, 8 (20%) of the items judged discourse that did not fit our discourse prosodicmodel were tokens of the cue phrase say.
All of these failed to fit our prosodic discoursemodel by virtue of the fact that they occurred in noninitial phrasal position; such itemsare illustrated in Example 8.
Of the 176 items judged sentential that failed to fit oursentential prosodic model, 138 (78.4%) were conjunctions.
Of these, 11 fit the DiscourseType A prosodic model and 127 fit the Discourse Type B model.
Both judges foundsuch items relatively difficult to distinguish between discourse and sentential use,as discussed above.
Table 8 shows how judgments are distributed with respect oour prosodic model when coordinate conjunctions are removed from the sample.
Ourmodel thus predicts 422 (85.3%) of nonconjunction cue phrase distinctions, somewhatbetter than the 662 (75.4%) successful predictions for all classified cue phrases, asshown in Table 7.Our prosodic model itself can of course be decomposed to examine the contri-butions of individual features to discourse/sentential judgments.
Table 9 shows thedistribution of judgments by all possible feature complexes for all tokens.
Note thatfour cells (ONFD, ONFH, ONFL, and ONFC) are empty, since all items alone in theirintermediate phrase must perforce come first in it.This distribution reveals that there is considerable agreement when cue phrasesappear alone in their intermediate phrase (tokens coded with initial OF, correspondingto Discourse Type A in Figure 6): such items are most frequently judged to be discourseuses.
There is also considerable agreement (163 tokens, or 92.6%) on the classificationof the tokens between the authors in such cases.There is even greater agreement when cue phrases appear in noninitial position ina larger intermediate phrase (NONF*--Sentential Type B in Figure 6); these tend to bejudged sentential.
When the token is deaccented, or receives a complex or high accent(NONFD, NONFC and NONFH), the fit with the model, as well as the agreementfigures on classification, are especially striking.
A small majority of tokens in the L*accent class (NONFL) do not fit the sentential prosodic model; note that the agreement6 The X 2 test measures the degree of association between two variables by calculating the probability (p)that the disparity between expected and actual values in each cell is due to chance.
The value of X 2itself or n degrees of freedom (df) is an overall measure of this disparity.520Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation of Cue PhrasesTable 9Prosodic feature configurations and judgments (N=953).Model Code Tokens Judgments Unclassifiable% Discourse % Sentential % TokensDiscourse A OFD 7 42.86 42.86 14.29 1Discourse A OFH 35 68.57 25.71 5.71 2Discourse A OFL 106 82.08 8.49 9.43 10Discourse A OFC 28 92.86 7.14 0 0ONFD NA NA NA NA NAONFH NA NA NA NA NAONFL NA NA NA NA NAONFC NA NA NA NA NADiscourse B NOFD 307 42.35 44.30 13.36 41Discourse B NOFL 55 56.36 30.91 12.73 7Sentential A NOFH 42 19.05 69.05 11.90 5Sentential A NOFC 40 42.50 52.50 5.00 2Sentential B NONFD 154 1.30 95.45 3.25 5Sentential B NONFL 18 50.00 44.44 5.60 1Sentential B NONFC 58 0 100.00 0 0Sentential B NONFH 103 3.88 95.15 .97 1Feature complexes are coded as follows:Initial O or N~ons is ts  of a single intermediate phrase or not.Medial F or NF---appears first-in-phrase ornot.Final D, H, L, or C--deaccented, orbears a H*, L* or complex pitch accent.level producing this classification was good.
However, as with the OFD subtype ofDiscourse Type A, which also has the worst results for its class, we have the fewesttokens for this prosodic type.Tokens that fit Discourse Type B in Figure 6---first in a larger phrase and deac-cented (NOFD) or first in a larger phrase and bearing a L* accent (NOFL) - -appearmore problematic: of the former, there was more disagreement than agreement be-tween the judge's classification and the prosodic prediction of the classification.
Andof the 153 sentential items that fit this discourse prosodic model, 127 (83.0%) are con-junctions.
The level of disagreement for the judge's classifications was also highest forDiscourse Type B.While there is more agreement that tokens corresponding to Sentential Model Aand characterized as NOFH-- f i rs t  in a larger phrase with a H* accent- -or  NOFC-- f i rstin a larger phrase and bearing a complex pitch accent, are sentential, this agreement iscertainly less striking than in the case of tokens corresponding to Sentential Model Band characterized here as NONF*--noninit ial  in a larger phrase with any type of pitchaccent.
Since Discourse Type B and Sentential Type A differ from each other only intype of pitch accent, we might conclude that the pitch accent feature is not as powerfula discriminator as the fact that a potential cue phrase is alone in its intermediate phraseor first-in-phrase.Finally, Table 10 presents a breakdown by lexical item of some of the data in Table9.
In this table we show the prosodic characteristics of classified cue phrases, indicatingthe number  of items that fit our prosodic models and which models they fit, and thenumber  that did not.
First note that some cue phrases in our single-speaker study werealways identified as sentential: actually, also, because, except, first, generally, look, next, no,521Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Table 10Classified cue phrases by prosodic models (N=878).Word Fitting Prosodic Models Not FittingDiscourse Sentential ModelsA B A Bactually 20 8 0also 3 1 5although 5 1 2and 2 91 11 78 94basically 1 3 1because 3 5but 2 23 1 2 24essentially 0except 1 2finally 7 4first 18 2 4further 6 2 1 2generally 5 1however 3 2 3indeed 2 2 1 3like 2 20 27 9look 30 3 2next 2 2 0no 5 2 2now 8 50 6 3 1ok 3 3 0or 4 12 5 9 25otherwise 1right 6 1 0say 1 16 9 1 8second 3 0see 22 4 0similarly 2 1 2since 1 1so 2 39 9 4 6then 2 1 1 9therefore 2 0well 5 7 15 2 0yes 1 2Total 50 251 204 155 218right, second, see, since, therefore, and yes.
A few were only identified as discourse: finally,however, and ok.
In Section 4.2 we examined the possibility that different speakers mightfavor one prosodic strategy for realizing discourse or sentential usage over another,based on the data used in our study of now.
Overall, the speaker in RJB86 favored theprosodic model Discourse B over Discourse A for cue uses in 251 (83.4%) cases.
Forsentential uses, this speaker favored the Sentential A model  slightly over SententialB, employing the former in 204 (56.8%) of cases.
However,  it is also possible that aspeaker might favor prosodic strategies that are specific to particular cue phrases toconvey that they are discourse or sentential.
For example, from Table 10, we see thatmost discourse uses of all coordinate conjunctions fit our prosodic model  DiscourseB, while all occurrences of finally and further fit Discourse A.
Of cue phrases classified522Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation fCue PhrasesTable 11Transcribed classified cue phrases associated with orthography (N=843).Position JudgmentDiscourse SententialPreceding (only) 151 37Succeeding (only) 12 21Preceding and Succeeding 25 0None 119 478as sentential, actually, first, look, right, say, see, so, well (and others) most frequently fitSentential A, while and most frequently fits Sentential B.5.2 Distinguishing Discourse and Sentential Usage in TranscriptionsAs in our previous tudies, we also examined potential nonprosodic distinctions be-tween discourse and sentential uses.
Of the orthographic and syntactic features weexamined, we found presence or absence of preceding punctuation and part of speechto be most successful in distinguishing discourse from sentential uses.
We also exam-ined how and when cue phrases occurred adjacent to other cue phrases.
Although thedata are sparse--only 118 (12.4%) of our tokens occurred adjacent to other cue phrases,they suggest that co-occurrence data may provide information useful for cue phrasedisambiguation.
I  particular, of the 26 discourse usages of cue phrases preceded byother classifiable cue phrases, 20 (76.9%) were also discourse usages.
Similarly; out of29 sentential usages preceded by a classified cue, 21 (72.4%) were preceded by anothersentential use.
With respect to classified cue phrases that were followed by other clas-sified cue phrases, 20 out of 28 (71.4%) discourse usages were followed by a discourseusage, while 21 out of 27 (77.8%) sentential usages were followed by other sententialuses.Table 11 presents the orthography found in the transcription of the cue phrasespresent in the recorded speech.
The orthographic markers used by the transcriber in-clude commas, periods, dashes, and paragraph breaks.
For the 843 tokens--536 judgedsentential and 307 judged discourse--whose classification both judges agreed upon,and excluding those items that the transcriber omitted, orthography or its absenceis a useful predictor of discourse or sentential use.
In particular, of the 213 tokenspreceded by punctuation (combining rows one and three from Table 11), 176 (82.6%)are discourse usages.
Note, however, that many discourse usages are not marked bypreceding orthography; the 176 marked tokens represent only 57.3% of all discourseuses in this sample.
Only 37 (6.9%) of sentential usages were also preceded by ortho-graphic indicators.
Twelve tokens that are succeeded but not preceded by orthographicmarkings are discourse and 21 are sentential.
All of the tokens in RJB86 that are bothpreceded and succeeded by orthography are discourse usages, although, again, these25 tokens represent only 8.1% of the discourse tokens in the sample.
So, the pres-ence of preceding orthographic ndicators--especially in conjunction with succeedingindicators--appears to be a reliable textual indicator that a potential cue phrase shouldbe interpreted as a discourse use, predicting correctly in 176 (82.6%) cases.
While wefound that discourse uses are not always reliably marked by such indicators in theRJB86 transcription, it is possible to predict he discourse/sentential distinction fromorthography alone for this corpus in 675 (80.1%) cases.In our study of now, described in Section 4.3, we found that in 51 (85%) cases, cue523Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Table 12Part-of-speech analysis of classified cue phrases (N=878).Part-of-Speech JudgmentDiscourse SententialArticle 0 6Coordinating conjunction 139 244Cardinal numeral 0 21Subordinating conjunction 43 58Preposition 0 3Adjective 1 12Singular or mass noun 10 7Singular proper noun 5 1Intensifier 4 6Adverb 118 101Verb, base form 21 78phrases that were first in intonational phrase were marked orthographically.
In thecurrent single-speaker study, first position in intonational phrase was orthographicallymarked in only 199 of 429, or 46.4% of cases.
So, in this study, the association betweenposition in intonational phrase and orthographic marking appears much weaker.We also found that part of speech could be useful in distinguishing discourse fromsentential usage--although less useful than orthographic cues--as hown in Table 12.
7If we simply predict discourse or sentential use by the assignment most frequentlyassociated with a given part of speech, Church's part-of-speech algorithm predictsdiscourse or sentential use in 561 (63.9%) cases for tokens where both judges agreedon discourse/sentential assignment.
For example, we assume that since the majorityof conjunctions and verbs are judged sentential, these parts of speech are predictors ofsentential status, and, since most adverbials are associated with discourse uses, theseare predictors of discourse status, and so on.If we employ both orthographic indicators and part of speech as predictors ofthe discourse/sentential distinction, we achieve only slightly better prediction thanwith orthographic ues alone.
That is, if we consider both an item's part-of-speechtag and adjacent orthographic indicators, we model the RJB86 data only marginallymore accurately.
Table 13 models correctly 677 (80.3%) transcribed, classified tokensin RJB86 from orthographic and part-of-speech information.
For example, given acoordinating conjunction, our model would predict that it would be a discourse use ifpreceded by orthography, and a sentential use otherwise.
In fact, the only differencefrom orthography alone is the way succeeding orthography can signal a discourse usefor a singular or mass noun, and a sentential use for adverbs.While the use of orthographic and part-of-speech data represents only a fractionalimprovement over orthographic information alone, it is possible that, since the latteris not subject to transcriber idiosyncracy, such an approach may prove more reliablethan orthography alone in the general case.
And, for text-to-speech applications, it7 The parbof-speech tagger employed in this analysis (Church 1988) uses a subset of the part-of-speechtags used in Francis and Ku~era (1982).
We have translated these for Table 12.
Note that "intensifier"corresponds to"QU' in Francis and Ku~era (1982).524Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation of Cue PhrasesTable 13Discourse/sentential models using part-of-speech and orthography.Part-of-Speech Model N CorrectNumber PercentArticleCoordinating conjunctionCardinal numeralSubordinating conjunctionPrepositionAdjectiveSingular or mass nounSingular proper nounIntensifierAdverbVerb, base formn=Sentential 6 6 100.0p=Discourse; n=Sentential 376 284 75.5n=Sentential 21 21 100.0p=Discourse; n=Sentential 99 83 83.8n=Sentential 3 3 100.0n=Sentential 13 12 92.3p/s=Discourse; n=Sentential 15 11 73.3p/b=Discourse; n=Sentential 6 5 83.3p=Discourse; n=Sentential 10 9 90.0p/b=Discourse; s/n=Sentential 196 162 82.7p=Discourse; n=Sentential 98 81 82.7Total 843 677 80.3Column 2 indicates the subdivisions ofpart of speech based on presence ofp--precedings--succeedingb--both preceding and succeedingn--no adjacent orthographyadjacent orthography:is not clear how closely orthographic onventions for unrestricted written text willapproximate the regularities we have observed in our transcribed corpora.5.3 SummaryOur findings for our single-speaker multi-cue phrase study support the intonationalmodel of discourse/sentential characteristics of cue phrases that we proposed basedon our earlier multispeaker single-cue phrase studies of now and well (Hirschbergand Litman 1987; Litman and Hirschberg 1990).
In each study, discourse uses of cuephrases fit one of two prosodic models: in one, the cue phrase was set apart as aseparate intermediate phrase, possibly with other cue phrases; in the other, the cuephrase was first-in-phrase, possibly preceded by other cue phrases, and either wasdeaccented or bore a L* pitch accent.
Sentential uses also fit one of two prosodicmodels: in both, they were part of a larger intermediate phrase.
In one model, theywere first-in-phrase and bore a H* or complex pitch accent--thus distinguishing themfrom discourse uses that were first-in-phrase.
In the other, they were not first-in-phraseand bore any type pitch accent.The association between discourse/sentential models and discourse/sententialjudgments for this study, as for our previous studies of now and well, is significantat the .001 level.
However, for the single-speaker, multi-cue phrase data in RJB86,our prosodic models successfully classified only 662 tokens (75.4%), a considerablysmaller proportion than for the previous studies.
We found one major reason for thepoorer performance of our models on the multi-cue phrase data.
A large percentageof the tokens that do not fit our prosodic models were coordinate conjunctions.
Whenthese are removed from our sample, our prosodic models correctly classify 442 tokens(85.3% of the data).
It is also worth noting that coordinate conjunctions were amongthe most difficult cue phrases to classify as discourse or sentential.To improve our notion of the factors that distinguish discourse from sentential525Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3uses, we made a more general examination of the set of items that we were unableto classify.
In addition to the finding that conjunctions were difficult to classify (61tokens, representing 81.3% of the tokens in RJB86 that we were unable to agree ona classification for), we also found that certain prosodic configurations appeared tomake tokens more or less difficult o classify.
Of the 75 unclassified tokens for RJB86, 55(73.3%) were tokens of Discourse Model B or Sentential Model A.
Recall that DiscourseModel B identifies items that are first-in-phrase and are deaccented or bear a L* pitchaccent; Sentential Model A identifies items that are also first-in-phrase but bear a H*or complex pitch accent.
Discourse Model A, items that are alone in intermediatephrase, and Sentential Model B, items that are not first-in-phrase, appear easier toclassify.
Thus, it appears that prosodic configurations that are distinguished solelyby differences in pitch accent, rather than upon differences in phrasing and positionwithin a phrase, may be less useful indicators of the discourse/sentential distinction.Furthermore, we found that orthographic cues (from transcription) successfullydisambiguate b tween discourse and sentential usage in 675 cases (80.1% of the 843).Part of speech was less successful in distinguishing discourse from sentential use,disambiguating only 561 cases in the study (63.9% of 878).
Using both orthographyand part of speech for predicting the discourse/sentential distinction in our corpuswas nearly equivalent to using orthography alone, predicting 677 (80.3% of 843) casescorrectly.
The relationship between the orthography of transcription and the orthog-raphy of written text will be an important determinant of whether orthography alonecan be used for prediction in text-to-speech applications; if the latter is less useful,part-of-speech may provide additional power.6.
D iscuss ionIn this paper, we have examined the problem of disambiguating cue phrases in bothtext and speech.
We have presented results of several analyses of cue phrase usage incorpora of recorded, transcribed speech, in which we examined a number of text-basedand prosodic features to find which best predicted a discourse/sentential distinction.Based on these studies, we have proposed an intonational model for cue phrase dis-ambiguation i speech, based on intonational phrasing and pitch accent, and a modelfor cue phrase disambiguation in text, based on orthographic ndicators and part-of-speech information.Work on the meanings associated with particular intonational features, such asphrasing and pitch accent ype, provides an explanation for the different prosodicconfigurations associated with discourse and sentential uses of cue phrases.
As wehave demonstrated above, discourse uses of cue phrases fit one of two models.
Inone model, Discourse Model A, discourse uses are set apart as separate intermediatephrases.
Recall from Section 3 that intonational phrasing can serve to divide speechinto units of information, for purposes uch as scope disambiguation.
So, a broaderdiscourse scope for a cue phrase may be signalled by setting it apart from other itemsthat it might potentially modify if interpreted more narrowly.
That is, in an utterancesuch as Now let's talk about cue phrases, now may be more likely to be interpreted in itsdiscourse sense if it is physically set apart from the verb it might otherwise modify inits sentential guise.We have also seen that a discourse cue phrase may be part of a larger intermedi-ate phrase and deaccented or given a L* pitch accent--Discourse Model B.
While theabsence of a pitch accent generally tends to convey that an item represents old infor-mation or is inferrable in the discourse, deaccenting is also frequently associated withfunction words--prepositions, pronouns, and articles.
Cue phrases in the deaccented526Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation of Cue Phrasessubset of Discourse Model B may, like function words, be seen as conveying structuralinformation, rather than contributing to the semantic ontent of an utterance.
The al-ternative version of Discourse Model B, in which a cue phrase that is part of a largerphrase receives a L* pitch accent, might be understood in terms of the interpretationproposed by Pierrehumbert and Hirschberg (1990) for the L* accent.
In this account,the L* accent is analyzed as conveying that an item is salient in the discourse, but forsome reason should not be added to speaker and hearer's mutual belief space.
Thissubset of Discourse Model B cue phrases may thus be analyzed as conveying salientinformation about the discourse, but not adding to the semantic ontent of speakerand hearer's beliefs.The text-based and prosodic models of cue phrases we have proposed from ourstudies of particular cue phrases spoken by multiple speakers, and of multiple cuephrases poken by a single speaker, have both practical and theoretical import.
From apractical point of view, the construction of both text-based and prosodic models permitimprovement in the generation of synthetic speech from unrestricted text.
From ourtext based model, we know when to convey a discourse or a sentential use of a givencue phrase.
From our prosodic model, we know how to convey such a distinction.These distinctions have in fact been implemented in a new version of the Bell LabsText-to-Speech System (Sproat, Hirschberg, and Yarowsky 1992).
From a theoreticalpoint of view, our findings demonstrate the feasibility of cue phrase disambiguationin both text and speech and provide a model for how that disambiguation might beaccomplished.
These results trengthen the claim that the discourse structures crucial tocomputational models of interaction, in this case, certain lexical indicators of discoursestructure, can indeed be identified.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Ron Brachman for providing oneof our corpora nd Jan van Santen forhelpful comments on this work.
This workwas partially supported by DARPA undercontract N00039-84-C-0165.ReferencesAltenberg, Bengt (1987).
Prosodic Patterns inSpoken English: Studies in the Correlationbetween Prosody and Grammar forText-to-Speech Conversion, Lund Studies inEnglish, Volume 76.
Lund UniversityPress.Beckman, M., and Pierrehumbert, J.
(1986).
"Intonational structure in Japanese andEnglish."
Phonology Yearbook, 3, 15-70.Bolinger, Dwight (1989).
Intonation and ItsUses: Melody in Grammar and Discourse.Edward Arnold.Brazil, D., Coulthard, M., and Johns, C.(1980).
Discourse Intonation and LanguageTeaching.
Longman.Butterworth, B.
(1975).
"Hesitation andsemantic planning in speech."
Journal ofPsycholinguistic Research, 4, 75-87.Church, K. W. (1988).
"A stochastic partsprogram and noun phrase parser forunrestricted text."
In Proceedings, SecondConference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing, Texas, 136-143.Cohen, Robin (1984).
"A computationaltheory of the function of clue words inargument understanding."
In Proceedingsof 1984 International ComputationalLinguistics Conference.
California, 251-255.Francis, W. Nelson, and Ku~era, Henry(1982).
Frequency Analysis of English Usage.Houghton Mifflin.Grosz, Barbara J., and Sidner, Candace L.(1986).
"Attention, intentions, and thestructure of discourse."
ComputationalLinguistics, 12(3), 175-204.Grosz, Barbara J.
(1977).
"The representationand use of focus in dialogueunderstanding."
Technical Report 151, SRIInternational, Menlo Park, CA.Halliday, M. A. K., and Hassan, Ruquaiya(1976).
Cohesion in English.
Longman.Hirschberg, Julia, and Litman, Diane (1987).
"Now let's talk about now: Identifyingcue phrases intonationally."
InProceedings, 25th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Stanford, California, 163-171.Hirschberg, J., and Pierrehumbert, J.
(1986).
"The intonational structuring ofdiscourse."
In Proceedings, 24th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics.
New York, 136-144.Hirschberg, J., and Ward, G. (1992).
"The527Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3influence of pitch range, duration,amplitude, and spectral features on theinterpretation f L*+H L I-I%."
Journal ofPhonetics, 20(2), 241-251.Hirschberg, Julia (1991).
A Theory of ScalarImplicature.
Garland Publishing, Inc.Hobbs, J.
(1979).
"Coherence andcoreference."
Cognitive Science, 3(1), 67-90.Hockey, Beth Ann (1991).
Personalcommunication.Litman, Diane J., and Allen, James E (1987).A plan recognition model forsubdialogues in conversation.
CognitiveScience, 11, 163-200.Litman, Diane, and Hirschberg, Julia (1990).
"Disambiguating cue phrases in text andspeech."
In Papers Presented tothe 13thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics.
Helsinki, 251-256.Mann, W. C., and Thompson, S. A.
(1983).
"Relational propositions in discourse.
"Technical Report ISI/RR-83-115, ISI/USC,November 1983.Olive, J. P., and Liberman, M. Y.
(1985).
"Text to speech--An overview."
Journal ofthe Acoustic Society of America, Suppl.
1, 78,s6.Pierrehumbert, J., and Hirschberg, J.
(1990).
"The meaning of intonational contours inthe interpretation f discourse."
InIntentions in Communication, edited byP.
Cohen, J. Morgan, and M. Pollack.
TheMIT Press.Pierrehumbert, Janet B., and Steele, Shirley(1987).
"How many rise-fall-risecontours?"
In Proceedings, Eleventh Meetingof the International Congress of PhoneticSciences.
Tallinn.Pierrehumbert, Janet B.
(1980).
The phonologyand phonetics ofEnglish intonation.
Doctoraldissertation, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, September 1980.Pollack, M. E.; Hirschberg, J.; and Webber,B.
(1982).
"User participation i thereasoning processes of expert systems.
"Technical Report MS-CIS-82-9, Universityof Pennsylvania, July 1982.Prince, E. E (1981).
"Toward a taxonomy ofgiven-new information."
In RadicalPragmatics, edited by P. Cole, 223-255.Academic Press.Quirk, R. (1972).
A Grammar of ContemporaryEnglish.
Longman.Reichman, R. (1985).
Getting Computers toTalk Like You and Me: Discourse Context,Focus, and Semantics.
The MIT Press,Bradford Books.Schegloff, E. A.
(1979).
"The relevance ofrepair to syntax-for-conversation."
InSyntax and Semantics, Volume 12, editedby T. Givon, 261-288.
Academic Press.Schiffrin, Deborah (1987).
Discourse Markers.Cambridge University Press.Schourup, Lawrence (1985).
CommonDiscourse Particles in English Conversation.Garland Publishing, Inc.Sidner, C. L. (1985).
"Plan parsing forintended response recognition idiscourse."
Computational Intelligence, 1(1),1-10.Silverman, Kim; Beckman, Mary;Pierrehumbert, Janet; Ostendorf, Mari;Wightman, Colin; Price, Patti; andHirschberg, Julia (1992a).
"TOBI: Astandard scheme for labeling prosody."
InProceedings, Second International Conferenceon Spoken Language Processing.
Banff,October 1992.Silverman, Kim; Blaauw, Eleonora; Spitz,Judith; and Pitrelli, John E (1992b).
"Towards using prosody in speechrecognition/understanding systems:Differences between read andspontaneous speech."
In Proceedings, FifthDARPA Workshop on Speech and NaturalLanguage.
February 1992.Silverman, K. (1987).
The structure andprocessing offundamental frequency contours.Doctoral dissertation, CambridgeUniversity, Cambridge, UK.Sproat, R.; Hirschberg, J.; and Yarowsky, D.(1992).
"A corpus-based synthesizer."
InProceedings, International Conference onSpoken Language Processing.
Banff, October1992.Swora, Maria G., and Beckman, Mary E.(1991).
"The intonation of cue words intask-oriented dialogues."
Presented at theLSA Annual Meeting, Chicago, Illinois,January 1991.Talkin, David (1989).
"Looking at speech.
"Speech Technology, 4 74-77.Warner, Richard G. (1985).
DiscourseConnectives in English.
Garland Publishing,Inc.Zuckerman, Ingrid, and Pearl, Judea (1986).
"Comprehension-driven g eration ofmeta-technical utterances in mathtutoring."
In Proceedings, Fifth NationalConference ofthe AAAI.
Philadelphia, PA,606-611.528Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman Disambiguation of Cue PhrasesAppendix ATable 14 summar izes  the proposed meanings of items classed as cue words  in sixcomputat ional  and linguistic treatments.
Note that we have omitted Cohen 's  discus-sion of Quirk 's  attitudinal expressions.
Under  "Grosz /S idner  '86," we use push,  popto, and complete to denote their attentional changes and the abbreviations "sat-pre"and "new-dom" for satisfaction-precedes and new dominance,  respectively.
Under"Schiffrin '87," we use "marker"  if the meaning of the discourse usage is i l lustratedvia example, but is not discussed in detail.
Under  "Warner '85," we use "conjunc-tion" to denote his simple conjunction and "adversat ive" to denote his adversativeconjunction.Table 14Suggested meanings of cue phrases.Cue Word Cohen '84 Grosz/ Reichman '85 Schiffrin '87 Warner '85 Zukerman/Sidner '86 Pearl '86accordingly inferenceagain parallelalright markeralso parallel conjunction additivealternately reformulationalternatively additivealthough adversative adversativealtogether summaryand parallel push; addition; conjunction additivenew dom continuation;repairresponse hedgerepair; causationresultiveboy repairbut contrast push direct adversative; adversative adversativechallenge contrast;interruption;repairanyway pop to returnbecause supportconsequently inferenceconversely contrastequally parallelfinally parallelfinefirst parallelfurther parallelfurthermore parallelgeehenceheyinferencesat-pre;new domcompletesat-pre;new dorasat-pre;new doramarkermarkercausationtemporal529Computat ional  Linguistics Volume 19, Number  3Table 14Continued.hopefullyhowever contrastincidentallyindeedlast parallellikelikavise parallellistenlookmeanzohile contrastmoreover parallelnamely reformulationnext parallelneverthelessnonetheless contrastnornowohokonlyorotherw~eoverallsaysecondseesimilarlystillSOthenthereforethoughthustoounlesswellwherewhereaswhyyetcontrastsummaryparallelparallelcontrastparallelinference;summarycontrastsummaryparallelcontrastdigressionsat-pre;new dompushpushcompletesat-pre;new domnew dominterruptionsupportprior logicalabstractionfurtherdevelopmentrestatement;conclusioncontrastcomparison;repair;restrictionmarkerrenewedinitiativeprogression;prominence;repairrepairmarkergeneralizermarkerrepairdevelopment;repair;response;resultiveresponseresponserepair;responsemarkeradversativeexample;comparisonconjunctionadversativealternationconditionaladversativecausationcausationadversativeconjunctionconditionalexampleadversative;causationadversativecausaladversativefocaladditivecategoricaltemporaladversativeadditivecausalcausal;temporalcausal530
